

McEWAN’S ALE.
ĝf
PIG STOUT
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
gd
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet
R. G. WATKINS & 00-,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOB —
Mining and Contractors’ Plant; Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW AND SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
gfd
Send for
Prices and
Particulars.
togrues
on
lication.
Most
Up-to-Date
Machines.
N. CUTHRIDCE, Ltd.,
71 CLARENCE ST.
*\T??*sv *• ~ " ***
Sydney.
tA'
488 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
214 HICH ST., FREMANTLE.
MCDONALD ST., KALCOORLIE.
OUBA STREET EXTENSION, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
A Policy for the Commonwealth
Being a reprint of a large number of articles from
The Bulletin, in which this paper has attempted to
outline a solvent, honest and democratic policy
for Federated Australia.
. ' -
I
I m
»
mm
00<
_
izontal Band Mills,
l©oo.
HOLD THE WORLD’S RECORD
gfd
I
BATTLE & CO., 85 Pitt Street,
Estbd. 1831.
WHISKY,
A PERFECT TABLE WATER.
’OOTH & CO. L. tel., Sydney.
1
m
faOBART.
"
Hadley s Orient [jotel.
L ■
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. IOItS. .^CnTERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and jcarefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted* to him.
übSic
an
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCIM3 FLOORS
o-f various sizes supplied.
,i; ■
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
PRICES PER FOOT OF SINGLE AND DOUBLE
BELTING :
2 2J 3 3J 4 5 6 8 10 12 inch.
~/7 -J9 -/10J 1/- 1/2 1/6 1/11 2/8 3/4 4/-
1/2 1/4 1/7 1/10 2/2 2/11 3/5 4/5 5/7 6/9
Agents in every State.
Made by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswau - Lamp.
EDI SWAN
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
ra mm a swan
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch : 16 Carrington-street.
WYNYARD SQTJARR, SYDNEY.
Q’nsland Depot—Central Bulletin s Edwaid-si, Brisbane.
BAXTER’S BARLEY BREE
B,a aaram ana*
g
HUMMING.
EMPIRE HOTEL, SYDNEY
HVCOSHT CEHTBALLT SITtJATED.
OTARB-BBPUY
Estbd. 1795. 25 Years BRANDY.
m
PROOF
as
Ones
USE
v^VV # ’
Head Office:
10 BLICH ST., SYDNEY
When buying a Waterbury
> 1 v ?} I
see that it bears the
WATERBURY WATCH CO.,
fg
E #
as a Guarantee of its Genuineness.
fdg
ADELAIDE
WINES.
I Natures Most :
Pleasing Restorative
From the OldestVinjeyards
IN '
South Australia.
D? Andrew Wilson F. R.S.E,
Author of" Health Notes?
London.
SAYS
PEN FOLD’S WINES
Arethe Safest Stimulant”
SYDNEY CELLARS
84 Pitt Street.
The Bulletin
Vol 23.—N0. 1146
[Saturday, February 1, 1902.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


* Obtainable from Geo. Robertson Proprietary, Castle-
reagh-st., Sydney ; price 13s. 6d. posted. There are two
more vols. to follow.
THE I fITFCiT „-r :
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
The Bulletin Reciter, ss, postage sd.
e first Man irt the Moon, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, p. 6d.
(Limited), 2s 6d and Ss 6d, postage 6d.
iurton, Year One, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, postage 6d.
aies (Story of the Nations), ss, postage 6d.
idy of Religion, 6s, postage Bd.
rebrand, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Tub Bulletin Story Book, 4s 6d, postage 6d.
Woodroffe, Tangled Trinities, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Montressor, The Alien, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Alexander, Yellow Fiend, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, postage 6d
Nicholson’s Principles of Pol. Economy, Yol. 111., 15s, p , 8d
Cook, The Bride's Book, 6s, postage 6d.
Holdsworth, Great Lowlands, 6s, postage Bd.
71 CASTLEREAQH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) & at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane & London
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
For
COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS of the
THROAT and
LUNGS.
(REGISTERED).
=v^.o\-
5?
•s'!*:
IN TINS, IS. 6(1.
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable for Sin vers
and Public Speakers.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OR POST FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR,
G. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q.
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 AND 7 QUEEN’S PLAGE ; and FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO., MELBOURNE, AGENTS.
They ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia.
THE RED PAGE.
J. 0. Williamson’s 50,000 edition of Ben-Hur for
Australia creates a local ‘Record.” He sells at
9d. retail; trade, 6d.—out of which he has to pay
Eng. printer’s bill and freight. Ben-Hur is a
heavy book for sixpence, with 465 pages; and
landed here the edition would cost Williamson
little short of sd. per copy. Thus he probably
risks 50,000 fivepenees—say £lOOO ; and (all sold)
he stands to clear perhaps 50,000 pence—or, with
his theatre sales, rather more—say £250 —besides
the advt. for the play, which is the thing essential.
J*
Ben-Hur is America’s Pride. When the God-
fearing American is asked for his list of the
Hundred Best Books, he invariably writes down
1. The Bible.
2. Ben-Hur.
The rest is leather and prunella. Lewis Wallace,
who made some reputation by The Fair God
(1873), and published Ben-Hur, a Tale of the
Christ , in 1880, was a Hoosier lawyer who served
with credit in the Civil War, and gained the rank
of major-general. When- he wrote Ben-Hur, the
grateful nation sent him as minister to Turkey—
possibly with some idea that he would be mis-
sionary as well. As he was born in 1827, he is
possibly dead in L 90 1; but that does n’t matter.
Ben-Hur is alive, and credited with a sale of
350,000 copies (plus Williamson’s 50,000). And
Ben-Hur is America’s Pride—“ the greatest his-
torical novel on airth —yes, sir 1 ”
*
Well, it isn’t a historical novel: it is a religious
romance; yet it is vigorously written, and the
description of the chariot-race deserves some of
the fame which it has acquired. But the
really clever thing about Ben-Hur is the
way in which it is designed to catch the
church-going, Sunday-schooling audience (unless
Wallace’s art fitted by nature). The gist
of it is a paraphrase of the New Testament
life of Jesus, with more or less appropriate colour-
ing and scenery ; but that alone would not suffice
to give it vogue. So Lew Wallace, remembering
that even puritans are human, has sandwiched in
the cardinal human motives of lust and battle
(the chariot-contest being a minor battle), and
thrown the holy cloak of piety over all. He has
dexterously mixed sacred and profane;—the pro-
fanity brings interest, and the sacredness justifies
the profanity,—and the Good Jew beats the
Wicked Pagan every time. Thus moral per-
sons can absorb Bm-Hur with immoral joy,
and hold themselves guiltless—for is it not
all to the glory of God ? When he comes to the
thin ice Wallace glides round with a delicate
aestiveness which is a Solemn Warning in
f. If the pretty girls dance in Antioch he
invites-his readers to gaze at the shocking spectacle
through their fingers—
The hair of the dancers floated free, and their limbs
blushed through the robes of gauze which scarcely draped
them. Words may not be used to tell of. the voluptuous-
ness of the dance (166).
Bub we may trust Mr. William Young, who has
dramatised the book, to give just as much
voluptuous dance as will serve to point the
admonitions from suburban pulpits. Then there
is the Egyptian lady who tempts Ben-Hur into
primrose paths, and comes to a Bad End. Wallace
is unable to do more than hint at the wickedness
of the Egyptian lady ; but she should cut a dash-
ing figure on the stage. And, based as it is on
the impregnable rock of Holy Scripture (and the
chariot-race, and the ladies whose voluptuousness
words may not be used to tell), Williamson’s in-
vestment of the 50,000 fivepences looks what the
ungodly would call a dead monte.
And what religionist, facing “ The Sign of the
Cross ” and “Ben-Hur,” can longer hold that the
Stage is Immoral? Why, it has joined hands
with the Church as a propagator of the noblest
Xtian morality. It is interesting that the nowa-
days Church is most successful when it adopts the
methods of the Stage: the Stage when it adopts
the dogmas of the Church. We get neither
honest Religion nor honest Drama, because both
Church and Stage find that it pays better to work
together—on the X.
Peace or War in South Africa , by A. M. S.
Methuen, is one of the best books that have been
published about the current war. It gives a fair
summary of the causes and the conduct of the
war; and it is no partisan pamphlet, though the
author adopts the conclusion of the Eng. Liberal
Party that it is useless to light in Africa a racial
feud which it will take centuries to extinguish,
and advocates that the Boers should be given
reasonable terms of peace, instead of being driven
to desperation by the cruelty of the prison-camps
and the Jingo cry of “ Unconditional Surrender.”
This book is now published in a cheaper edition,
and may be obtained from The Bulletin office for
6d., post-free 9d. ; or from any reputable book-
seller. So many falsehoods have been sown by
the Rhodesian gang of gold-grabbers, and by the
Chamberlain faction of territory-grabbers, that it
will come as a surprise to many people in Australia
to read the true facts of the war as impartially re-
cited in Methuen’s book.
<s*
With Philip J. Holdsworth—“good old P. J.”—
dies another of our middle-epoch bards; the
generation is disappearing. There is a distinot
space of unaccomplishment between our earliest
poetical day, ending in Wentworth and com-
pany ; and the new day which rose on
Gordon, Stephens, Kendall, and the rest. And
when these ceased to write, another distinct
space comes before the advent of The Bulletin
clan. P. ,T. Holdsworth belonged to the Kendall
epoch : he was Kendall’s helpful friend ; and
though his verse is of little account comparatively
it cannot be dismissed as of no importance.
Indeed, one of Holdsworth’s shorter pieces—“.My
Queen of Dreams”—was spokenT>f by D. Christie
Murray (no incompetent critic) as the piece which
most impressed him when he made acquaint-
ance with local verse-writers ten years ago. It
was here reprinted in 1896, but as the single book
of Holdsworth’s verses is scarce, there are pro-
bably many readers who do not know it.
This is less mannered, less oratorically exu-
berant, than most of Holdsworth’s verses, which
were usually conceived in the large, robustious
fashion of the Elizabethan dramatists that made
his favourite reading, and are more satisfactory to
the ear than to the eye. With “P.J.” a poem
was an Event. He took his Art very seriously
indeed. The “Dedication” of Station Hunting
on the Warrego: Australia: At the Valley of the
Popran: and Other Poems (published by Wm.
Maddock, Sydney, 1885) runs thus:
AS A YOUNG AUSTRALIAN
I DEDICATE
THIS SMALL VO I’ .ME OF rOEMS
TO
MY FELLOW-COUNTRYMEX
OF AUSTRALASIA
LEiS, PERHAPS, FOR ITS QVS SAKE
THAN AS AN EARNEST OF
FUTURE EFFORT.
Alas! the “ future effort ” never came. Occa-
sionally there was a new piece, laboriously conned,
sedulously polished, recited at length to a friendly
circle, and usually finding some haven of print
after many days. But the “effort” hardly
amounted to a couple of pieces a year ; and only
three or four of these take modest rank with the
author’s earlier work. Somehow Holdsworth’s life
ran to seed. Born in Sydney, he passed his whole
life there—at first as a Treasury clerk and Under-
secretary of the Forestry Dept., and latterly
(when his office was abolished) in receipt of a
small pension. He dipped into journalism; and
for a time edited The Illustrated Sydney News (ex-
tinct), and made small excursions in other news-
paper directions. The poet deserves his niche in
an Australian anthology. The man was of sterling
metal, whatever the flaws in his mould—good-
hearted, kind, and sincere, despite an amiable
pose of rhetorical dignity which deceived no-one.
He died at 51: a widow and one son survive him,
N.S.W. lawyer Darley’s (C. J.) health is reported
to be more satisfactory, while N. S.W, lawyer
Salomons’ (for some 48 hours C.J.) is giving rise
to apprehension. This, of course, is no excuse for
the shameless intrusion of an unprinted Salomons
story. He was discussing the Great Jury Ques-
tion —to abolish or not to abolish. “ Well,” said
Salomons, “it’s this way. I study my brief, and
I get up to speak for my client. I bring
forward every point, every argument, and as I
go on I gradually argue myself into a belief that
my client is right, and that he ought to get the
verdict. More than that, I half convince the
Judge and the counsel on the other side that my
client is right. But then the other counsel gets
up, and as he proceeds I gradually feel doubt
stealing over me, and when he finishes I’m in a
fog along with the Judge, because I don’t really
really know which client is in the right ; and the
other counsel knows as little. Then, luckily, by
our most excellent system, the question is referred
to the jury to decide, and they are the only per-
sons in Court qualified to decide it, because they
understand nothing at all about it. By all means
maintain the jury system 1 ”
Local statisticians will thank us for reference
to an article by J. A. Hobson in The Speaker of
9th Nov., which quotes an interesting table of
U.K. emigration. In 17 years the tide has sub-
stantially fallen. The U.S.A. take far more
British and Irish immigrants than all other
countries together. Australia, which received
from 30,000 to 40,000 per annum in the eighties,
received only from 10,000 to 20,000 per annum in
the nineties. For the last eight years more
British have emigrated to Canada and to the
Cape than to Australia: formerly the ease was
reversed.
J*
A birthrate suggestion from an Fng. source.
In accounting for the Australasian decline, con-
sider the emigration of potential fathers from the
E. States to Westralia during the five years ended
1900. They were getting gold, but they were not
begetting children.
#
Oil this subject: C. S. Devas exploded the
dignity of the British Association at Sept.
Glasgow meeting, by reading a paper to prove
that the general birthrate decline coincided with
a decay of religious beliefs, and was caused by that
decay. “ The broad principle seemed intact that
among civilised races'persistent sterility implied
antecedent irreligion.” Devas did not prove his
case; but he formulated a strong hypothesis.
Butterflies in Amber, a book of verses
“by the late Francis Wyman” (Melb. ;
Ward, Lock) is another son’s tribute
to another father. It appears that the
late Francis Wyman wrote verses in
England, and that he wrote verses in
Australia; and it is certain that the
verses have no literary merit, and that
there was no public reason why they
should have been printed or reprinted.
But if Customs-Minister Kingston will
look at the book, he will find that it
has been printed in England for cir-
culation in Australia; and upon en-
quiry he will find that several firms
of booksellers in this country have
acquired the habit of printing books in
England for duty-free circulation in
Australia,—because English printing
and binding are cheaper than Australian
printing and binding. And if Cus-
toms-Minister Kingston, with his
strongly Protectionist creed, does not
draw the deduction that this habit is unfair to the
local printer and binder, who pay high wages and
pay high duty on type, paper, presses and imple-
ments, then there is a flaw in Customs-Minister
Kingston’s logic. Australian copyright ought to
be refused to all books that are not printed in
Australia at least as soon as elsewhere.
Harry Quilter’s moral code for Editors, disen-
tangled from the hotch-potch of What’s What —
All articles are too long, and most should not be
written.
Avoid a series.
All contributions should be cut occasionally—keeps the ,
staff in order.
An Editor should be grumpy—that’s business.
No contribution is better than the paper deserves.
A contributor should always be thanked (even if he be
dismissed), but never praised.
Never apologise—except to insult.
Never take a favour.
Be liberal with your best men, and mean With your
worst.
,ti? av , e a was te-paper basket like a bucket, a constitution
like a horse, a revolving arm-chair, and a heart like the
nether millstone.
' J*
Some little items—
“Nosays Thomas Hardy, “I have not,given up
writing poetry." The dear man !—as if he ever did
write Poetry ! ... As to the Hon. sssss, D.D., LL.D.,
D.C.L., etc. : “There is no royal road to learning.” “No ;
even Carnegie gets there only by degrees.”— The Smart
Set. .. . Chicken come home. That ignorant Boer- 1
woman’s “green paint” turns out to have been a
decoction of • eucalyptus leaves—our own. eucalyptus
leaves used as a household remedy. . . . Longman’s
house is to publish J. H. M. Abbott’s book of war-
sketches, Tommy Cornstalk Photograms for 1901
contains much excellent reading, and many good pic-
tures—-none of them as good as some that have been pro:
duced in America. The American manipulated photo., by
the platinotype or gum-bichromate process, is becoming
more and more effective ; and, in the hands of clever
people, the character and range of tones are so altered
-that one gets the result of an original painting. The
“straight” photographers cry “ Unfair !’’—but, if the
end be good, what matters how it is reached ?—in Art, at
all events, where Ethic does not enter....
“ Science is calm and steadfast,
_ Science is fair and free ;
Of the gates Divine she knows ninety-nine,
Love holds the Master-Key,”'
declares Albinia Brodrick in The Thrush —all ignorant
that next week this page will be filled with Love-Letters
approved by the philosophic miiid of a Cynical Epicurean
Stoic of mature age and one moral —“Does it Pay?”....
Francis Kenna resigns editorship of Q. Worker to contest
Bowen electorate for Q. Assembly ; and he deserves to
win. H. E. Boote, formerly of Gympie Truth, succeeds
him On the Worker A regretted misprint made the
name of Edward Dyson’s new novel The Gold-Seekers.
It is The Gold-Stealers, and deals with the adventurous
deeds of the denizens of Waddy (,Vic.) —which lies about
five miles E.W. of Bendigo, and about fifteen miles N.S.
of Clunes. But it cannot be given as a Sunday-school
prize ; for the Villain is a Sunday-school superintendent.
Chambers’s Cyclopaedia of English Literature
has been the foundation of many a- student’s
knowledge of the subject; and it remains without
a peer in its field. The new edition, of which
the first volume is now ready,* can be taken to
the heart and made the beloved companion of a
life-time. We have recently been offered some
very poor investments in the shape of “libraries
of literature ”: Chambers’s book is an honest
investment for any man’s money, either for
reference or for reading.
Andrew Lang’s sketch of Tennyson’s life and
work, in Blackwood’s “ Modern English Writers ”
series, is very flat and feeble. One ounce of
Frederic Harrison’s criticism: is worth a ton of
Lapp’s superficial eulogy. And Lang’s reiteration
of his personal cliches has grown tiresome: we
have had enough of Walter Scott and the Cock
Lane ghost. L. persists that In Memoriam, pub-
lished 1850, does not paraphrase the theology
which Maurice and Kingsley opposed to floating
evolution hypotheses, because the I.M. pieces had
been chiefly composed between 1833 and 1840.
This is a disciple’s non-sequitur. Between 1840
and 1850—the crucial time—it was open to Tenny-
son to write and add and alter as he pleased);
and there is ho evidence that he did
not please—not even Tennyson’s own. Lang
marvels, as regards 1.M. , “ that the same serene
certainty of Art broods over even the stanzas
■which must have been conceived while the sorrow
was fresh.” Why not?—seeing that Tennyson
cultivated the sorrow as a peg for the poem,
grieving deliberately in order to surpass Catullus
and Milton. In Memoriam goes with the fine
periods of Henry Parkes’s letters commiserating
the distress of his relatives in England: both
Tennyson and Parkes wrote like Mr. Micawber,
“ much affected, but still intensely enjoying him-
self.” Lang gives us some astounding incidental cri-
ticism. “ But two names exhaust the roll of women
of the highest rank in letters—Sappho and Jane
Austen.” Sappho and Jane Austen —Lesbian
wine and small-beer—what a conjunction ! (Lang
himself, by the way, might very well pass for Jane
Austen in trousers).
J*
Hall Caine is telling stories of the Pope he saw
in the Eternal City. Leo builds his church on the
rock of “ hard graft, ” it seems. Not long ago,
says Caine, he wanted certain papers arranged in
his private library, and, calling one of his house-
hold, he said, “ How long would it take to do this
work, Monseignor ?” “ About fifteen days, Holy
Father.” “ Nonsense ! Eight days are enough,
and let me show you how to do it in less.” There-
upon the youthful veteran ordered that the prelate
should shut Imnself up in the library, sleep on a
couch in an ante-room, and live there until his
work was done. In six days the task was finished.
* . >
Another sad cage was that of one of the Pope’s
clerical chamberlains, who spoke several lan-
guages, but not English. This was discovered by
the Pope shortly after the Spaniard’s appoint-
ment. “ Monseignor,” said the Pope, “ how long
will it take you to learn English ?” “Perhaps
four or five months, your Holiness.” “Tut! four
or five weeks are sufficient,” said the Pope. “Go
away at once and learn it.” The Chamberlain sat
up night and day, with three sets of English
teachers, to learn English in five weeks.
“ Punctually at the end of five weeks the Holy
Father will send for me,” said the Spaniard,
“and, perhaps, call upon me to deliver a discourse
on the literature of the sixteenth century in
England, and ask an English prelate to preside! ”
*
Some correspondents—
A.J.G.: Too far from original issue.... Kiltrumpie:
“ Misfortunate ” may be base Scots, but used by us it
becomes good English. Language is made for man;
not man for language... .J.B. : You don’t strike us as
logical—possibly because we disagree with you... .R.M. :
Yes, Swinburne did approve of the insurrection in
Candia, and of many another fight for freedom ; but then
Candia and Co. did not fight for freedom against the
British, but against some other territory - grabber.
It is Herbert Spencer who writes, addressing an
Eng. audience on “ The Bias of Patriotism,” that :
“ In this conflict between the views of those who commit
savage acts, and the views of those on whom they are
committed, we clearly perceive the bias of patriotism
where both sides are" aliens ; but we fail to perceive it
where we are ourselves concerned as actors. Everyone
old enough remembers the reprobation vented here when
the French in Algiers dealt so cruelly with Arabs who're-
fused to submit—lighting fires at the mouths of caves in
which they had taken refuge ; but we do not see a like
barbarity "in deeds of our own in India; such as exe-
cuting a group of rebel sepoys by fusillade, and then
setting fire to the heap of them because they were not
dead, or in the wholesale shootings and burnings
of houses, after the suppression of the Jamaica
insurrection. Listen to what is said about such
deeds in our own colonies, and you find that habitually
they are said to have been justified by the necessities
Jf the case. Listen to what is said about such deeds
when other nations are guilty of them, and you find the
same persons indignantty declare that no alleged necessi-
ties could form a justification for them. Nay, the bias
produces perversions of judgment even more extreme.
Feelings and deeds we laud as virtuous when they are
not in antagonism with our own interests and power, we
think vicious feelings and deeds when our interests and
power are endangered by them. Equally in the mythical
story of Tell and in any account not mythical, we read
with glowing admiration of the successful rising of an
oppressed race ; but admiration is changed into indigna-
tion if the race is one held down by ourselves. We can
see nothing save crime in the endeavour of the Hindus
to throw off our yoke ; and we recognise no excuse for
the efforts of the Irish to establish their independent
nationality. We entirely ignore the fact that the motives
are in all such cases the same, and are to be judged
apart from results.”
A.
MY QUEEN OF DREAMS.
In the warm, flushed heart of the rose-red West,
When the great sun quivered and died to-day,
You pulsed, O star ! by yon pine-clad crest
And throbbed till the bright eve ashened grey :
Then I saw you swim
By the shadowy rim
Where the grey gum dips to the western plain,
And you rayed delight
As you winged your flight
To the mystic spheres where your kinsmen reign.
0 star ! did you see her : my queen of dreams ?
Was it you that glimmered the night we strayed
A month ago by these scented streams,
Half-checked by the litter the mu3k-buds made ?
Did you sleep or wake ?
Ah ! for Love’s sweet sake
(Though the world should fail and the soft stars wane)
I shall dream delight
Till our souls take flight
To the mystic spheres where your kinsmen reign.
AN EXCEPTION.
There’s poetry in earth and air,
In changing sky, in rolling sea,
In all we look at everywhere ;
There’s poetry in you and me.
There’s poetry in birds that sing,
In Summer landscapes, Winter scenes;
There’s poetry in everything —
But how about the magazines ?
DOROTHY DORR, in The Smart Set.


M‘DOUCALL’S SHEEP DIP
THE ORIGINAL NON-POISONOUS DIP.
M'DOUGALL BROS., 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Agents : 3XT.58. TJVC. -A.. Op., LOCAL AGENT^EV£RYWHERE
WOOL
SEND
YOUR
WOOL
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
If you want to get the best possible results.
The VOLCANIC
/ERATINC
MACHINE
h
n
A GREAT SAVING
. . TO . .
Hotelkeepers, Cafe Proprietors, etc.
iErated Waters of the highest quality
produced with the utmost rapidity
WITHOUT SHILLED LABOR,
igr Absolutely the best and simplest
Machine in the market.
• PRICES GREATLY REDUCED •
Write for descriptive Pamphlets with testimonials
from people who have used the Maohine for years.
W. JAMES, Proprietor
/ Office :
\Dep6t:
101 QUEEN ST., MELDOURE.
130 CECIL ST., SOUTH MELBOURNE.
BRAUN ORE SAMPLE-CRUSHER
and PULVERISER.
E
Combination of a Jaw and Roll
Pulveriser working together.
May be operated by either hand or power.
Jaws, 3§ In. wide; Roll, 6 in. diameter; Beit
Wheel, 16 x2£ in. Total Weight, 2851bs
Write fob Particulars to—
PARKE & LACY CO., Ltd.
60 Glarence-St., Sydney, n.s.w.
MINING ENGINEERS & MACHINERY
MERCHANTS.
HAVE THE
BEST.
■■■■lll
■■■■lll
I I I 1 I I hi
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE FENCE
Is built by a light, handy machine, easily operated, which will weave
JLe UUIIL Uj' **
THREE CHAINS OF FENCE AN HOUR
FOR CATALOGUES AND PARTICULARS _
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE FENCE CO.,
128 Franklin St., Melbourne ; 143 Sussex St., Sydney.
NEITHER CRACK
«?
£BO6
*8
6807
CBB
£BOB
KQR BURN.
SHILLING BRIAR PIPES
QUALITY NOT BETTER
IN A GUINEA PIPE. . .
GUARANTEE.-Should any of. our Celebrated CAN’T-B-BEAT Briar Pipes Crack or Burn a
QUAK New One will be Exchanged for it immediately on Application.
Sold by all Tobacconists. By post, is. to.
Mick Simmons, haymarket, sy-dney.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: It PHiLLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PTRMONT.
Sole Charge s 3 Per Oeia/fc. ±o Q-row®rs.
TTc are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge jd. per lb. to the Buyers.
“On Our Selection.”
By “ Steele Rudd.”
THE VOICE OF NATURE.
When a person is afflicted with
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Lumbago
Backache
Sciatica
Blood Disorders
Anaemia
Indigestion
Jaundice
Biliousness
Sick Headache
General Debility
Gravel
Bladder Diseases
Bright’s Disease
It signifies that Nature is crying
aloud for help, and saying
“ Your Liver is out of
Order.”
“Your Kidneys are not
doing their work.”
“Restore them to health or
your suffering shall not
cease.”
Nature invariably keeps her
word. She will not be outraged.
So long as the Urinary and
Biliary Poisons which cause
these diseases remain in the
system, health cannot be re-
gained. When the kidneys and
liver are fulfilling tneir ap-
pointed functions, the poisons
which cause these diseases are
expelled in a natural manner.
Anyone will tell you that the
only medicine which will per-
manently cure you, and one
which never fails is
The Great
Kidney and
Liver
Specific,
WARNER’S SAFE CURE.


TATTERSALL’S.
Address: Care GEO. ADAMS, Hobart.
NEWMARKET H. March 1.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
Name.
£
Address
AUSTRALIAN 0. (special) March 4.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me ... shares in the
above.
Name
Address
DONCASTER H. March 29.
50,000 Subscribers at 5-
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the
above.
Name
Address
SYDNEY 0. March 31.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares
in the above.
Name
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.
Address “ Tatter sail,” care Geo. A’ams, Hobart.


Health, and Wealth.
Most people talk of health and wealth as if
they were two seperate and distinct things. This
is very misleading. They are nothing of the
sort. Whoever enjoys perfect health is owner of
the most valuable kind of wealth it is possible for
any mortal to possess. Can any sane being doubt
that a, healthy, vigorous, working man, dependent
for his living upon his daily toil, is infinitely
wealthier than a dyspeptic or gouty millionaire,
who travels around the world and lives in the
best hotels, vainly seeking for a day’s ease ?
What person of sense is there who would not
choose to be the former rather than the latter ?
Of course there are some people who have both
money and health, just as there are others who
have neither. Those with the double advantage,
if they are not happy, must look to their own
conduct for the cause; those with the double
deprivation must seek to regain their health,
for without it it is tolerably sure they will not
obtain many of the world’s prizes.
Health is the best capital. Without health
that other sort of capital handled by bankers
cannot be obtained ; or if already obtained, can-
not be enjoyed. The worker, therefore, laid aside
by sickness, must seek recovery by the best and
shortest road. This recret—which should be no
secret—is understood by Mrs. Annie Green, of St.
George’s Hall Buildings, Great North Road,
Auckland, New Zealand. Writing on the 3rd
December, 1900, this lady says: For nearly
three years I suffered from acute indigestion,
continual headaches, sleepless nights, and a
languid, tired feeling. A great part of my
time was spent in bed, as I was quite unable to
attend to my duties. About two months ago,
after I had been in bed for four weeks, a friend
who came to see me urged me to try Mother
Seigel’s Syrup, insisting upon that medicine
being the most efficacious remedy in the world in
all cases of indigestion and dyspepsia. As the
prescriptions of several eminent doctors who had
attended me had afforded me no relief at all, I
was sceptical of the merits af Seigel’s Syrup ;
but my friend was convinced of its potency, and
then and there obtained and gave me my first
bottle of it. It gave me immediate relief, and
before that one bottle had been all taken the dis-
tressing symptoms had almost disappeared. I
purchased another bottle myself, which com-
pleted my cure. lam deeply grateful to the
friend who insisted on my trying Mother Seigel’s
Syrup, as its effect, in my case at least, has been
simply marvellous.”
Mrs. Green is a native of Auckland, and has
been in business at her present address for over
nine years. No one is better able to appreciate
the truth that health is wealth than a business
woman.
. . SMOKE.
THE
GBD
INSIST
on having this Brand
and no other.
AGENTS
JULIUS SOLD SCHMIDT L CO.
231 Clarence Street, Sydney.
fO
31N DIG ESTION&
Biliousness
iNIiLOAPB,!^
J Infants
AND Invalids.
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRAYAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated drops.
FER BRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
bling Hi constitution
to resist climatic
influences
Invaluable in all
I cases of anaemia and
1 general debility.
Highly recommended
, for weak and
1 debilitated children.
LANCET “A beautiful and interesting
preparation."
BRITISH MEDICAL all
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
i< does not blacken the teeth "
I eom BY CHEMISTS AM THE YVORI.D OVER.
WHOLESALE : Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette-
The Best Australian Book of Sea and Sailor Verse.”
The Ways of Many Waters
E. J. BRADY.
SHIRTS.
Foi Station and Out-door work our Silk SnftrtPrf
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
331- per Hdlt'-dozen, free by post thro ay ho at
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. Por Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle -
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Seourity of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
PreiwUes, or on
Freehold and C.P. (combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per cent.
of the loan during- any year without notice or payment of any fine.
HEAD OFFICE : 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
RICHARD TEEOE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
HMUugrV.
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 108,
H. HilLier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
jt3T Send for a
Catalogue.
dg
Bent*Shaft Sulkies
15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY,
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
PLAYER’S
WORLD
• ■■—tar
FASVIED
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
m ■
WHOLESALE
Distributing Agents
New South Wales —
M. RUTTY & GO.,
SYDNEY.
Victoria —
<l. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia —
Hart, Lawrence & Co.
Propy. Ld., Adelaide
Western Australia —
Lionel Samson & Son,
Fremantle
Queensland —
ThoB. Brown & Sons, Ld.
Briebano
Burns, Philp & Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania —
Watchorn Bros.,
Hobart
John McKenzie & Co.,
Launceston
New Zealand—
D. Benjamin & Co.
Dunedin, Wellington
and Christchurch.
v.v
w
Highest Grade of Quality # Finish.
ID* - Every Pipe Guaranteed.
PRIZE MEDAL, Paris Exhibition, 1900.
Australian Agents:
M. RUTTY & CO., New South Wales.
J. E. HUNT, Victoria.
THOMAS BROWN & SONS, LTD., Queensland.
HART LAWRENCE & CO. PROP. LTD., South Australia.
A. Gr. & F. T. KNOX, West Australia.
MARTELLS
“A genuine
old Brandy
made from
Wine.”
Medical- Prass.
THREE STAR
“Particularly suitable
for Medicinal
Purposes.”
The Lancet.
fd
THE
‘PLUM’
gf
THE
PLUM’
/N ENTLEMEN. —This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
'J r like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. 6d.
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
p , / Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d ; Pair, in beautiful .Morocco Leather Case, 21a.
price si n g] e Razor, in Ivory Handle, 159; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful oase, 308.
Registered and sent Post Free to ant part op the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, \VIIEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, 17 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies' Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
toOrder. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any tirms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
cent more for your requirements.
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYONJ3SIT
OUB SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
gd
I>*liTcred at any Wharf «r
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10 /-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Two Blue Eyes and a Mouth.
Eyes that look me through,
Blue as Austral skies.
(What’s a man to do !)
Eyes like hers are few :
How they mock me, too !
Laughing, lustrous eyes
(Like starshine and dew)
Glancing loving-wise.
Mouth ! but what a dream ’
Luscious lips and red,
Dazzling teeth between.
Laughing mouth agleam,
Face, a rippling stream !
(Might as well be dead
If that pink and cream
I may not kiss to red !)
n.s.w.
HELNN JEROME.
When the Good Old Gods are Dead.
When the good old gods are dead,
Go they down to fields of rest
Where they lay each hoary head
On some sweet, soft-tinted breast.
In the meadows of the West
Drowse they by the smiling sea;
Old and happy—oft caressed,
Dreaming out Eternity.
All their days are comforted
With Love’s eager alkahest;
Soft and low the moments tread,
Where the good old gods are pressed
In a sweet, white-bosom’d nest.
List’ning to some melody
Lie the gods all overtressed,
Dreaming out Eternity.
Rose-and-vine-leaf chapleted,
Kissed by crimson lips a-que3t;
Venus’ dingle for their bed—
Tasting favors sweetly blest.
’Neath the headland’s purple crest
In a blinking reverie—
Done with Life’s old palimpsest—
Dreaming out Eternity.
Envoi.
O, ye Gods, that still with zest
Rule this planet—pray that ye
May ’mid bosoms pearliest
Dream out your Eternity !
via
GRANT HERVEY.
A Protest.
’Tis a most scandalous thing—this Life 1
A man is shot into a world of strife
To suffer and grieve,
To fail or achieve,
With never so much as a “ By your leave ! ”
It’s a low-down game
And a dastard shame
And I beg to protest in Humanity's name !
They never ask if you’d care to come
Or where you would like to make your home,
You’re set on your toes
To wrestle with woes
And, whether you like it or not, buy clothes :
If you don’t, you sin,
And you’re soon run-in
And it’s useless to plead you were wearing a skin !
They give you a name in a brace of shakes,
Damning a man for his forebears’ sakes,
With “Will” or “Jack”
Or “Tom” or “Mac.,”
The whole thing finished behind your back !
As it’s yours to bear
It seems unfair
That you’ve less to say than anyone there !
To be hungry is often your cruel lot —
No choice of yours—you would rather not 1
But sneak away
A loaf from a tray,
They’ll put you in prison a week and a day 1
To drink inclined,
Your troubles to blind,
You’re dragged away off to a beak and fine 1 I
But later in life, when your wife has died,
And your purse is full and your acres wide,
Once in a while
You may raise a smile
Stroking your beard in a cynical style—
Just as Hope blooms
And your life assumes
Some interest —enter a hearse and plumes !
Now, supposing a man should chance to sin,
In a world he don’t want to be landed in,
In face of that same
Is the beggar to blame
Considering it wasn’t his fault that he came ?
It’s a low-down game
And a big d —d shame,
And I beg to protest in Humanity’s name !
THE CYNIC.
Maoi’i estimates of age are not always
reliable, but there has died at Wangaehu a chief —
Wunu—who, according to his relations, was at
least 108 years old. He left an aged, decrepit son,
a patriarchal grandson, and an elderly great-
grandson ;so the chances are he was something
near to the stated age.


LATEST -IfOVEITf yf
SI ■ U i
1
ilia
IS?#P
iiislfl
astii
&
:SSSS
ll Jt
-mmm
W/<&
WMrnh
- \V. • i?WW/- - -
■ ’ •,/*>■’; ■' 7 'i-O ■ vAv.
v - v_, (t - : |
liSsii§i|Ji
OrfQbi/
mMw&
■!:1 ii|,,il ll „g
CANNOj
Br£a^atTH-£
'-£nclism
'Uovc
eJi kl« fjfi Alii!' l
ppßovs D By^LLv/f4neRS
CH
Ly
skS
fFjfHs
ts/S
CR
Fo
Sole
C t
a
SfRALAS
IA
CHAMBERS
ONS
WAT
BO
Thousands Cured Yearly!
VIM
yliwillieili
VITALITY
VIGOR
f
4s
A
m.
••
VIRILITY
DR. MIAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT
THERE are over 50,000 men who are ever ready to testify to the merits of this grand remedy, this vitaliser of the human
system, this fountain of life to the weak and broken-down man. If you are not the man you should be, if your step is
infirm, if your eye has lost its sparkle, if you have come-and-go pains, if you are backward, if you have
Rheumatism, Lame Back, Indigestion, Dyspepsia, Constipation, Lumbago,
or any of the ailments that go to make life miserable, this modern remedy will cure you. We have seen weak, decrepit men,
broken in mind and body, restored to a healthy, normal condition in a few weeks, and we say to you, if you have any of the
symptoms given above, come and see us, and if we can cure you we will tell you so; if not, we will be candid with you.
LAME BACK AND DEBILITY.
Marine Department,
Edward-street, Brisbane.
Dr, M‘Laughlin Co.,
Dear Sirs,—lt gives me great pleasure to answer your
letter just received, as my health has improved very much
since I have been wearing the Electric Belt I received
from you. I sleep well at night, and feel refreshed in the
morning and ready for work. The pains in my back have
entirely left me, as has also the sense of weariness I used
to feel. lam getting stronger in body and nerve, thanks
to your wonderful Belt, and I would not part with it for
£5O if it were impossible to get another. It far exceeded
my expectations. My friends congratulate me upon my
healthy appearance, and say l look ten years younger, and
wish to know what lam taking. I am glad to tell them
that it is the belt that caused the change.
Thanking you sincerely for all you have done for me,
and hoping that others may be benefited by my experience,
I remain, Yours very gratefully,
JOHN KING.
SEE
THESE
CURES
A SYDNEY ENGINEER’S PRAISE.
“Kelso,” Calvert-street, Marrickville.
Dr. M'Laughlin Co., Sydney,
Dear Sirs, —I have been using one of your high-grade
Belts now for about six weeks. My principal trouble was
CHRONIC DYSPEPSIA, and a general run-down con-
dition. 1 can say truthfully, and lam telling my friends
of the benefit it is doing me. My food digests a great deal
easier, and I also sleep better, and hope to be entirely well
in three months’ time. Of course, a man 67 years of age,
as I am, cannot expect to be cured in a day.
Yours very respectfully,
HUGH JONES.
Consultation and Advice absolutely FREE.
Don’t Delay in a matter of Health.
If you will call at our office we will give you our Free Book, and will also explain to you how our Belts do all we claim for
them. Come in and test the current, find out how it can be regulated, and see how it can be applied without burning or
blistering the skin. A test and explanation costs you only the time required to make it. There is no expense attached.
If you are too far away to call, you can write us and receive the same satisfaction. Book mailed free, sealed.
A OFFICE HOURS, from 9 a.m. ELECTRIC DISPLAY, Evenings, 7 to 9.
Dr. M‘LAUGHUN ELECTRIC BELT COMPANY, 85 King Street, Sydney.
. TRADE MARK .
Fox Bros. & Go., Ltd., warn
the Public that their Trade
Mark consists
ONLY
of the word
FOX
which is a guarantee of sound'
ness of material and Quality
of Dye of all
Worsted Coatings,
Serges I Zveeds
on wh'ch it is stamped.
As the result of many years
of experience
fox’s fnre 3n9igo Dye
is recognised as the best in the
market. All FOX'S standard
cloths are stamped every two
yards on the back
FOX
PURE INDIGO
and without this stamp are
not genuine. These celebrated
serges can be obtained from the
leading Tailors and Drapers
throughout the Colonies,
FOX BROS. & Co., Ltd.,
Wellington, Somerset, Eng.
o
OLD
HNS
i*J
SUNBU
FING
t/>
HA
<s>
&.C
*y
O/SIE
s
y
ft
P *o
Pf? * ET
ORS
JJOWARD & 00. repair any instrument.
Queen-street, Woollahra.
I\/|'ANDOLINES, from Is. weekly. Write for lists.
IVJ - HOWARD & 00,, Woollahra.
TJRASS INSTRUMENTS, from Is. week. HOWARD &
CO., Woollahra. Write for lists.
TV/TUSICAL BOXES and ORGANETTES, from Is. weekly.
1V L HOWARD & 00., Woollahra. Write for lists.
YOU can hang- yourself on our VIOLIN and BANJO
STRINGS. HOWARD & CO., Woollahra. Try them.
A BOUT 50 tons of ld., 2d. , 3d. and Od. each.
Lists free. HOWARD & 00., Woollahra.
aIjTOHARPS, from Is. weekly. HOWARD & CO.,
Woollahra. Write for lists. __
/'TUNS and RIFLES, 2s. 6d. weekly. Write for lists.
HOWARD & 00., Woollahra.
TTLUTES, from 6d. each to 20 guineas. Cash or terms.
£ HOWARD & CO., Woollahra.
"\7TOLINS from Is. weekly, 1500 in stock. Write for lists.
v HOWARD & CO.', Queen-st., Woollahra.
T)ANJOS from Is. weekly, all kinds in stock. Write for
lists. HOWARD & CO., Woollahra.
A CCORDIONS from Is. week, 1000 in stock. Write for
lists. HOWARD & CO., Woollahra.
A NGLO CONCERTINAS, 30s. to £12125., cash or terms.
Write for lists. HOWARD & CO., Woollahra.
HOWARD & CO., Woollahra.
"PHONOGRAPHS from Is. week, also other talking
machines. HOWARD & CO., Woollahra.
-DICYCLES from 2s. 6d. weekly. HOWARD & CO.,
-*-* Queen-st., Woollahra. Write for particulars.
PIANOS and ORGANS, cash or terms. Write for lists.
HOWARD & CO., Woollahra.
■H OWARD & CO. extend their easy terms all oyer the
colonies. Quecn-st., Woollahra.
TT OWARD & CO., largest time-payment firm in the
colony for everything. Queen-st., Woollahra.
yIOLINS and FITTINGS of every kind!
HOWARD & CO.,
Queen Street, Woollahra.
Of all Queensland’s queer Judges, about
the queerest was old Blakeney. It was in the
early days of Sir George Bowen’s Governorship
that he got his appointment, and in those days
Governors had more to do with the seleotion of
high officials than they have now. Blakeney was
at loggerheads with Bowen the Pompous, and got
it into his head that the Governor was opposing
his appointment. Blakeney was a regular atten-
dant at St. James’ (where his Excellency also
worshipped), and used to roll out the responses
in stentorian tones that made more row than a J
the rest of the congregation put together. When
his relations with Government House became
strained, he used pointedly to omit to beseech the
good Lord to hear him. when “ his Excellency the
Governor of this colony ” was prayed for. At
last one Saturday the Gazette duly announced
that Blakeney, Q.C., had been appointed a
District Court Judge. On the following Sunday
the supplications for the preservation, and the
endowment with wisdom, of Sir George Ferguson
Bowen were wafted to Heaven in Blakenev’s best
bass. Coming out of church the new Judge took
off his hat with much unction to the Governor,
who, nodding laughingly, said: “Thanks very
much, Blakeney ; I heard you." Once, when on
the Roma circuit, the Judge’s buggy-horse
knocked up, and he bought , another for £25
from John Ahearn, the well-knoWn inspector of
police—then a sergeant—who took his Honor’s
cheque. This was promptly dishonored, so, when
the Judge came back, the sergeant let him know.
“Sent back my cheque, did .they?—the
scoundrels ! Give it me, John, and I’ll give you
another /” Who ultimately got the best of that
deal is unknown. The old man was a terror to
swear, and, at Dalby, once, somebody wrote to a
local paper deploring the fact that a Judge should
be heard using swear-words at the public table of
an hotel. Hely and Paul were on circuit with him
4t the time, and took care the Judge saw the
paper. He danced with rage when he read the
letter, and pathetically appealed to the others:
“Now Paul, now Hely, I put it to you, as me
friends, did you iver hear me make use of any ex-
pression whativer that could offend the most deli-
cate and sensitive famale ear ? ” “ Oh, no, Judge!
never!” responded the Bar. “Well then, me
dear friends, just read what this , ,
scoundrel writes of me. By the —
, I’ll prosecute the wretch ; I’ll put
the ruffian in gaol, I will, by -—— ! I re-
tain vou both, me dear boys, for the prosecu-
tion !”


HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
***** W°unds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
w ’ th ln^arnm ation and swollen that when you
o y r* Ur “ n B e , r on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
®?» under the skin you have poison .that defies all
ed,es you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
X?! 1 ’ srh?5 rh ?, ps y°ur knees arc swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
wallowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. Yon may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
if OU i d ,°?-’ t Bft y perhaps ; but I WILD. Because
otners have failed is no reason for not now being cured*'
bend at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and FILLS;
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs.
Housemaid s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, lumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
isunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
AT*T»?r>S?’ Britain, 1/lid. per b x. Prepared by
Al/JSJ.KI, /3, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents ‘. ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper ou a
gieen label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
rn Try it:
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
gapillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 108. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
The Result.
CRAIG & AITKEN, N.S.W. Barber’s Supply
House, 630-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
XJSE -m
SPOONEE’S
MM}j
SPOONERS
<
*
Of
l HI t
IfATtNT UEATHER BOOTS
SW2EMIO&&?-
Q,o» t i>*4 *'+ #•<
<•»*»» ♦***»!'*'*
£w»* .i*W» 4 *
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Hoots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
gf
PLAIN NOM€ TALK.
EMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustiations. 1200 Papes.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1901 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted to any address for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
The Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc;.), Is 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic, Is 6d, post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
Balzac's Droll Stories, Is 3d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid.
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is 3d.
Pa, Ma and Baby, by- Gust&ve.Droz, posted 2s.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music complete), Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Metal Working, Brazing, etc., Is 3d.
Send for my Illustrated Big- Book
Catalogue—post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
m
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regain Health?
The Langston Regenerator
WILL CURE
YOU
Its effects are almost instantaneous and the good results go
on increasing from day to day.
Health, Vigor, Strength
for all who
desire it.
OLD SURGEON LANGSTON,
Member Royal College of Surgeons, England, permanently located in
Melbourne since 1886, originator of the Regenerator treatment, has so
perfected his method that it has revolutionised the art of Healing,
and it can almost be said there are no hopeless or incurable
cases.
Are You a Sufferer
from bad health in
any of its many forms?
Do you feel nervous, fretful, timid and lack the power of will and
action ? Are you subject to loss of memory, broken sleep, feel listless,
moping, and subject to fits of melancholy? Are your kidneys, stomach, urinary organs, liver or blood in a
disordered condition ? Do you feel generally debilitated ? Do you suffer from Rheumatism, Neuralgia or other
aches or pains ?
Do not fail to have the Doctor diagnose your case. If you are unfamiliar with the Regenerator treatment
prepared in his own laboratory, which is annually curing 1 thousands, send at once for full information ;
it is absolutely free.
Seek the Truth., it; costs KTothing!
No matter what you are suffering from, the Regenerator restores the shattered constitution
like magic.
All communications are considered sacredly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng., cor. Russell & Collins Sts,, Melbourne
Dr. Clarkson’s Electric Belt.
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and conlidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to*be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
ur. Clarkson’s Re-Invigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
vigour.
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
peptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
parts, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON’S ItE-lN VIGOR ATOR
V
will bring happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and Organs is trnlv wonderful
THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC. urgans is truly wonderful.
Price—ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
CALL OR WRITE- QWXj
CUT
RATE
DKXJG- STORE
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
s
XL
&
m
3
NATURES TRUE REMEDIES.
Nature has provided a TRUE REMEDY for Every
Complaint. It is, therefore, unnecessary to contaminate the
System with Mineral Poisons, which leave the System Weak
and Debilitated. Sufferers from Blood and Skin Diseases,
Nervous Affections, Piles, Rheumatism, and Affection of
the Liver and Kidneys, Chest and Lungs, Consumption,
General Debility, Costiveness, Influenza, Melancholia, iEnemia,
can rely on a Cure from these Remedies.
ALFALINE
REMEDIES
Are a guaranteed
Cure for the
above Comnlaints.
They hr Cured
Thousands, and
stood a Test in
Australia for over
20 years. They
have never been
known to fail in
a single case, and
they are purely
NATURE’S
REMEDIES.
HUtffiMpSllfi
iwu«4
jwimiman!
ALFALINE
HERBAL
REMEDIES
Have been Awar-
ded several Gold
Medals, and
More Testimon-
ials than any
known remedy in
Australia.
A Special
Guaranteed Rem-
edy for each
Complaint.
HERR RASSMUSSBFS CHIEF LABORATORY. •
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Are a Guaranteed Cure for All Nervous AfP ctions, Weak Spine, Brain and Nerves, Poor
Memory, Tired Feeling, and General Debility. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Course, 23/6.
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS
Are a PERMANENT CURE for the Most Chronic Blood Diseases, Skin Diseases, Blotches,
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, etc. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS
Purify the Blood and Build up the Weakest Nervous System. A Guaranteed Cure for
.Anemia, Wasting Diseases in Females. A General Blood and Nerve Tonic
for both sexes. Boxes, 6/- and 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE LIVER AND KIDNEY PILLS
Are Guaranteed to Cure Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Heartburn,
Biliousness, and the Liver and Kidneys. BOXES, ONE SHILLING. Posted, 1/6.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to
cure Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lum-
bago. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 12s. and
235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage—
This Suspender imparts Strength and Vigor,
at the same time as it supports the parts.
Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -A
Wonderful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Con-
sumption, Bronchitis and Influenza. Boxes,
posted, 35., 65., 12s and 235. 6d.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and
effectual Electric currents unequalled as a
cure for all Spinal and Kidney Affections ;
425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
REMEDIES BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Sufferers can only obtain the Alfaline Herbal Remedies from
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office or Branches, the addresses of
which appear below. Letters should be addressed and Cheques
and Money Orders made payable to Herr Rassmussen’s full
name— Hans Peter Rassmussen, whether you send to his Head
Office or Branches. Register all letters containing money.
All Remedies sent unobserved, packed in plain cover.
Correspondence held confidential.
ALFALINE
PILE POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
ALFALINE
FAT-REDUCING
POWDERS,
Boxes, 3, • and 6/-
ALFALINE
HAIR-RESTORER,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
CORN CURE, I/-.
OINTMENT, 1/-.
? .
HEBBALALfAUHLPHIsHfRRRAS
HEKKRASSMUSS
sm««s
A USEFUL BOOK
SENT FREE.
Herr Rassmussen’s
valuable book, The
Alfaline Guide to
Health, which con-
tains valuable in-
formation for all
Complaints, and
copies of Testi-
monials, will be sent
free in plain cover,
on application.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S HEAD OFFICE,
(HANS PETER RASSMUSSEN)
547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The Alfaline Remedies can only be obtained from his Head Office and hit
INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES:
MELBOURNE— ISO Bourke-st.
BRISBANE— 3O9 Oueen-st.
ADELAIDE— IS Pulteney-st.
W. A.—PERTH, 481 Hay-st.
KALGOORLIE—Hannan - st.
BOULDER ClTY—Piesse-st.
N.Z.—9l Lambton Quay, Wellington.
FREMANTLE—Henry-st.
A FREE BOOK SENT ON APPLICATION,
with Advice, Testimonials, and List of the ALFALINE REMEDIES.
The new Mayor of Sydney declares that,
as regards the _ attempt to amalgamate the 43
municipalities into a Greater Sydney, “it is
utterly useless and perfectly hopeless to expect
any practical good to come out of aldermanic con-
ferences or aldermanic reports.” The Bulletin
has been saying that for a long, long time. To
expect 43 sets of aldermen to be of one mind at
one time—to dream that 43 sets of aldermen will
acknowledge that they are all a failure, and that
the system which gives them their paltry jobs and
i? 6lr P altl T importance is a failure —to imagine
that 43 sets of aldermen will abolish their petty
dignities—to hope that the 43 sets of pottering
and incompetent individuals, who have made
bydney the awful specimen of municipal mis-
government it is, will devise among them a wise
scheme of up-to-date management for Greater
Sydney—is just drivel. Such an idea should be
put away out of sight in 43 lunatic asylums.


gdf
AARON’S
Exchange Hotel Co.,
SYDNEY.
The system of paying for Room only and
Meals as required is adopted here.
£3 3s. per Week
9s. per Day
GORDON MARE, Secretary.
W. W. AIKEN, Manager,
28 Years in the Establishment.
VALUE
UNAPPROACHABLE.
Freetrade
Prices
. . AND . .
Post Free.
THE
Goldsmiths *
Silversmiths
Alliance,
Jewellers & Opticians,
90 KINQ-ST.,
SYDNEY.
New Zealand
Greenstone
MALTESE CROSS,
Gold-mounted
Pendant, 9s.
Please send for
Illustrated
Catalogue.
COLD-MOUNTED CRYSTAL MASONIC
PENDANT.
Pentacle or Square and Compass Centre
(Special Value), 5s 6d.
Solid Gold Pierced Pendants, Pentacle
or Square and Compass—
IN CIRCLE (as Sketch)—
9ct., 10s 6d ; 15ct., 16s 6d.
WITHOUT CIRCLE—
9ct., 9s 6d; 15ct.. 13s 6d.
Our Registered
AUSTRALIA PENDANT.
Solid Silver, 2s 6d.
Gold, 13s 6d.
BROOCH—
Solid Silver, 3s 6d.
Gold, 13s 6d.
HAT PINS—
Solid Silver, 3s.
Gold, 13s 6d.
g
Tails.
FRINGES, Best Natural Curly Hair, 3/6, 5/6,
7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each. TAILS' and PLAITS,
20in. loner, 5/6,; Extra Thick, 7/6 ; 24in.,
10/6; Extra Thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings Worked Up, 2/6 per oz.
Don’t be misled. Our Plaits and Tails are
twice as thick as sold elsewhere at same
price. Send Color of Hair. “ Only ONE
Address”:— W. H. WIGZELL,
110 WILLIAM-ST., Corner of Palmer-st.,
Sydney. Cable trams will stop at door. All
work guaranteed Illustrated catalogue
post free. Prompt attention given to coun-
try orders. Wigs made on shortest notice.
RHEUMALGIA
mhc new cure for Rheumatism, Lumbago, Gout, Sciatica,
■*- Neuralgia, and similar ailments
IS
a lotion compounded from herbs
PURELY AUSTRALIAN.
3S. 6d. POST FREE.
Rheum algia Remedy Co., Bathurst,
Wholesale depot for N.S.W. and Q.
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
A
World-wide
Reputation
Unapproached
and
Unsullied
from
Generation
to
Generation.
THE
OLD BATTLE AXE BRAND.
fdg
K
MACHINERY
MERCHANTS,
WHOLESALE IRONMONGERS,
And Importers of
Engines, Boilers, Pumps, Wood-
working Machines, Engineers’
Supplies, Blacksmith and
Coachbuilders’ Requisites, Pipes
and Fittings, Boiler Tubes, Cun
Metal and Brassware for Steam
and Water, Household and
Builders’ Ironmongery, Agri-
cultural Implements, Horse
Gears, Chaff Cutters, &c.
Qui
c r!
i*'
:r j
BRISBANE
fdg
North Queensland Warehouse:
Stanley & Sturt Sts., Townsville.
New Bread St. House, London, E.C
AGENTS FOR
ROBEY & CO., Portable Steam
Engines.
W. B. HAIGH & CO., Sawmill
Machinery.
GWYNNE’S Centrifugal Pumps.
PEARN’S Manchester Steam
Pumps.
DUPLEX Steam Pumps.
SCOTT’S Steel Mining Ropes.
FRANK VIAL & SON Leather
Belting.
WAUKEGAN Barb Wire.
PLANET JR. Implements.
AER MOTOR Windmills.
KEROSENE OIL ENGINES.
THE WORLD’S FAVORITE CIGARETTE.
WILLS*
... CELEBRATED . . .
"THREE CASTLES”
NONE BETTER
ON SALE EVERYWHERE
■ 'EI
iM!
mi
r
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, £3 3s. per week or apartments may be
secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards.
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted on applica-
tion to The Manager,
CHARLES READ & CO.,
3 Doors from
Strand Arcade.
Camden Buildings, 420 George St., Sydney.
Write for 80-'page. Il'ustrated Catalogue—Post Free.
A
SAVING
OF
2 5
PER
CENT.
Charles Read & Co.
Diamond Marquise Ring.
If you want a
Good, well-made
Ring, set with
Choice Gems,
we can fit you
up from our
8 ock, or make
any Design you
like.
Charles Read & Co.
5-Stone Half-Hoop Diamond
Ring, from £5 to £4O.
A
SAVING
OF
2 5
PER
CENT.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vot. 23.—N0.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 1002.
Prick 6d.
A GENTLE REMINDER.
DAME SYDNEY (on re-appearance of the rat): “Dear mo! how dirty one gets in a very short time. Seems like only yesterday that I washed myself—it can’t
be more than two years!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
" A uMralia for the A nMraUana. ,>
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, -Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North,. Sydney
New South Wales
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBER'S
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ®
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Wcstralia and fifaoriland.
Tn consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
post ape on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
€l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing tn the imposition oflhl. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease o T in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
po tape —lLL on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition o/Tiie Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office. Order, Postal Note,
One Poun t Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques , Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J F.
Archihald.
Special Notice..
The wlui’- contents of 'this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right,'to reproduce or translate any
article, tale , sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the, contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the? “Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
t those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 2000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that ive
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Jtlaclc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and, adapted for direct reproduction, or
any ini ere ting phot og raph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street & Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco.— L. E. Lee, Palace Hotel.
South Africa.— R. A. Thompson and Co., S Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. 11. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st'y, Capetown. Gwelo News Agency
Rhodesia.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 1902.
The Revival of Royalism.
Any tendency to constitutional change in
Great Britain is of interest to Australia, since
it is on British forms of rule that our own
are shaped, and a radical alteration in repre-
sentative government, as it is understood at
Westminster, is certain to be reflected in
this country so long as the present suzerainty
continues. The movement in Britain now,
slight though it may be, towards a return to
royal absolutism, is therefore matter for
concern in Australia, particularly as it is not
difficult to point to circumstances which
seem to indicate that the British discussion
on the wisdom of strengthening royal
power is being accompanied by a parallel
movement towards checking democracy
in Australia. At the opening of the
Federal Parliament claims were advanced
on behalf of the Governor-General, terms
were used in approaching the Sovereign
for Supply, which suggested a power of royal
prerogative which Australia had not con-
ceded since the first days of Responsible
Government. It is true that a hurried re-
treat was made from obviously untenable
positions so soon as the attention of the
people’s representatives was drawn to the en-
croachment of the Throne on the governing
rights of the democracy—but not so hurried
as to fail to give a warning to Australians of
how easily their late spirit of Jingoism could
be misinterpreted into a willingness to sur-
render some of these hardly-won self-govern-
ing rights. This warning has since gained
stress from the fact that, with the appoint-
ment of military Governors to Victoria
and Queensland, an inspired whisper
has gone forth suggesting the necessity for
gratitude at Imperial forethought in sending
out Governors “who can aid us in the
organisation of our army.” In Britain, the
trend towards absolutism is shown by the
suggestion that the King should no longer
be the puppet of the Cabinet —the enthroned
rubber-stamp, wielded by a Premier to give
constitutional effect to Acts of Parliament—
but a living, governing force, presiding at and
sharing in the deliberations of the Ministry ;
and by the recent declaration of Lord
Salisbury in favor of a recognition of
the absolute supremacy of the King. In
Australia the parallel movement showed
itself in the claim of the Governor-General
to the power of veto over Parliament’s
choice of a Speaker, and in the appointment
as State Governors of gentlemen who are
announced to be willing to meddle in our
private affairs.
* * * •
It is easy to understand how this move-
ment towards absolutism started in Eng-
land. Bewildered, confused in a dark
national fog, stumbling blindly through the
horrors of an exasperating war, the British
nation sees no hope of relief from the present,
or any immediately future Parliament, and,
like a~ patient whose doctors have proved
themselves fools, is willing to try any
quackery in the hope of relief. A King at
the Council table exercising for the nation
the supreme wisdom which is always attri-
buted as a matter of politeness to royalty ;
the hereditary know-everything of the illus-
trated papers shedding the light of his
experience on the dark spots of national
effort ! What could be more promising ?
And King Edward himself is said to be
ambitious, jealous of his German nephew,
William, who is a real king, auto-
crat, theocrat, poet-in-chief, dispenser
alike of gaol sentences and of songs to
his people. Edward VII. would welcome a
move towards real kingship. And there aie
many tools to serve his ends. Just as
Disraeli, the flashy upstart, was willing to
flatter Victoria with the title of Empress,
so the ex-Radical, Chamberlain, will be
willing to please his King with the gift of a
seat in the Cabinet, if the gift be in his
power ; and Chamberlain is just now god
of the British People.
* * * •
Probably enough the suggestion to
strengthen the King’s power will ultimately
be adopted. It would mark the first big
step back on the path trod since the days
when the Tudor despotism fell to pieces
in the hands of the feeble Stuarts, but
Britaiq has been taking so many back steps
lately that she must be getting familiar with
retrogression. A relapse from the progress
towards democracy—a step on the way back
to royal tyranny—would be but a logical
sequence to other recent lamentable de-
velopments of her national life.
• * • *
By Australians any tendency on the part
of Britain to desert the cause of Liberty
must he observed with sorrow ; the spectacle
of a Nation leaving the vanguard just as a
noble struggle promises to end in victory is
necessarily painful. Britain first in Europe
flung a gold piece into the face of a “Divine”
king and taught him that his “ power from
Heaven ” was annulled by the power of the
purse. If she now begins to tread back on
the path towards despotic monarchy, men
the world over who aspire to be free may
well mourn. But of more importance to
Australians in particular is it to guard
zealously against any parallel movement
towards King control or King’s-Deputy con-
trol on this continent. Let it be made clear
to all that Australia is absolutely and irre-
vocably committed to Democracy and will
resist, to the extent of accepting whatsoever
other alternative, any effort to encroach on
the peopled right of self-government.
The Commercial Bank of Australia.
In view of the revelation just made by the
Commercial Bank of Australia, which admits that
there is still another deficit of over two millions to
be provided for before the debris of 1893 is really
cleared off, it is a fair thing to inquire what
Victoria thinks now of its beautiful banking law
—or of the administration of it. The law itself
is possibly all right, but if so it has gone the
way of all good Australian laws, and nobody has
taken the least trouble to enforce the spirit of it,
while even the dead letter of the statute has been
perfunctorily attended to. The Commercial Bank
of Australia found itself, a few years ago, with
several millions worth of good assets, and also
several millions worth (on paper) of assets that
were by no means so good. Also it owed, like any
other big bank, several millions to its depositors.
Its good assets, and the assets that were not so
good, yielded, among them, enough to pay interest
on all those deposits and to show a profit in
addition. But someone struck the idea of putting
the bad or dubious assets by themselves in what was
called a Trust, and making the Trust responsible
for an amount of deposits nearly corresponding to
the alleged value of the assets —which, it seems,
weren’t worth anything like that alleged value.
The Trust was as much a part of the bank as was
the bank itself, for the bank owned it bodily, and
was responsible for all its liabilities—but it looked
to some extent like a separate institution. In the
bank itself—or rather that part of the bank which
was still called the bank, the other part of the
bank being called the Trust—were left the good
assets and the rest of the deposits. The bank,
so-called, earned enough to pay interest on its
share of the deposits, and a handsome profit over,
which profit was regularly published. The Trust,
apparently, didn’t earn enough by a good way to
pay interest on its deposits—seeing that £1,800,000
worth of Trust assets (£1,800,000 is now said to be
their real value) were trying to earn enough to pay
interest on over £3,300,000 worth of Trust deposits,
a deficiency was a very probable circumstance.
* * * *
But this deficiency was never, so far as the
writer can find out, made known. Instead of an-
nouncing, at any particular half-year, that the bank
had made (say) £60,000 profit, and that the Trust,
which was part of the bank, had made (say)
5£20,000 loss, so that the net profit earned for the
Commercial Bank shareholders was (say) £40,000,
the profit was mentioned, and any loss which had
to be deducted from it to show the real profit re-
mained in obscurity. Every half-year £30,000 of
the bank’s profits was handed over to the Trust,
but the shareholders, so far as the writer can ascer-
tain, were never informed that this or any part of
it was required to make good the deficiency in the
Trust’s earnings. For all the Visible evidence to
the contrary it might have been that the Trust
was paying its way, or even showing a small
profit, and that the large amounts handed over to
it by the bank were being used to write down the
■value of the assets. It would now appear, how-
ever, that the amounts transferred from the bank’s
profits were mostly swallowed up as things went
along in paying interest on the Trust’s deposits,
and that after £323,000 of the bank’s profits have
been paid to the Trust its deficit is just the same,
or pretty nearly the same, as at the beginning.
And the directors explain thus, per circular :
The directors, from the beginning, disclaimed respon-
sibility for the losses made by the old Bank with which
they had nothing to do—
No one said the present directors had anything to
do with the losses—
Nor would they undertake the duty of valuing the
assets until time and a return to something like normal
conditions would permit of this being done with reason-
able accuracy.
They weren’t asked to value the Trust’s assets.
They were only asked to clearly state the Trust’s
revenue and expenditure (they couldn’t help
knowing what these were) so that when the deficit
(if any) was deducted from the bank’s profits the
shareholders would know'what their real profits
amounted to.
Under the scheme of Re-arrangement the directors had
the right to pay interest out of the proceeds of the
realisation of the assets as well as from the income
derived therefrom. But they have not availed themselves
of this permission, and have each half-year reserved out
of the profits of the.new Bank sums, amounting in the
aggregate to £323,000, which have been deducted from
the Bank’s interest in the Assets Company (the Trust), so
that the assets remaining unrealised have not been eaten
into or impaired.
*** ■ *
And if the shareholders had known for certain,
which apparently they didn’t, that this £323,000,
instead of making things better with the Trust,
was all, or mostly, required to prevent the
Trust’s affairs from growing any worse, they
would have had little to Complain of. Then they
would have known that the Trust was in a bad way.
And, knowing that, they would probably not have
paid the absurdly high prices some of them did for
ordinary shares, which now prove to be so very
nearly worthless, the ordinary capital being
almost wholly written off, and there still remain-
ing a deficit large enough to swallow the rest of it
and nearly £1,000,000 more . No person in his
senses would pay 15s. or 205.. for a share paid up
to 10s.—which is all that will now remain—with
no reasonable prospect of getting a dividend till
another £1,000,000 or so of losses have been made
good out of earnings. On this basis the ordinary
shareholders’ dividend may be 14 years off, or
more, and a 10s. share with the chance of a
dividend in even ten years isn’t a thrilling pro-
perty.
* * * *
The present directors of the Commercial Bank
of Australia were not responsible for the old
losses, but they were for the policy of secrecy or
semi-secrecy which has been pursued since, and
for the balance-sheets which showed profits so
clearly, and kept so strangely silent about other
things equally essential. And if, as alleged, the
directors acted within their rights, it is an
unutterably foolish banking law, or an unutter-
ably incompetent administration of a good bank-
ing law, which allows any directors such rights.
It was not a case of valuing the assets of
the Trust, though the Board always speaks as
if it were, but merely a case of showing the
net earnings derived from these assets what-
ever the value of the assets might be. And
in asking the Board to show these earnings
no one attempted to hold it responsible for the
losses made by its predecessors. It took over an
institution which had been left m difficulties by
other people, and it was merely expected to show
how that institution, which had been left in
difficulties, was getting on. And the directors,
apparently, don’t even promise to be any more
explicit in the future than they have been in the
past. The Trust disease is one which requires
to be promptly and wholly suppressed by
Federal law. If it spreads it is capable
of doing many weird and remarkable things.
For instance : The A.J.S. Bank is burdened
with many Western N.S.W. properties which
are practically worthless, from a revenue point of
view, till the drought breaks up, and when that
may be even Wr'agge and the twelve apostles
don’t know. Last half-year it earned about
=890,000 gross, but after paying nearly £87,000
interest on its deposits the net profit was
under £3600. If it.put all its unpayable pro-
perties into a Trust, and charged the Trust with
the payment of interest on (say) £3,000.000 of
deposits (which interest, of course, the Trust
couldn’t earn), the bank could probably show a
profit of £44,000. And if it transferred £40,000
of this to the Trust (of which no profit and loss
account was published), it might easily he imagined
that the said £40,000 was surplus profit being
applied to write down the value of the assets.
There would be nothing to show in any definite
fashion that it was being absorbed in the
payment of interest on deposits which the Trust
couldn’t pay itself. And under these circum-
stances there would be really no progress being
made at reducing the inflated values of the assets,
and the real profit would still be £36oo—not
£44,000. The Bank of New Zealand, by the way,
also put its old, dubious assets away in a Trust.
But the accounts of its Trust are published fully
and regularly—which makes a material difference.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
England Under Freetrade-A Sydney
“Telegraph” Horror.
Sydney Daily Telegraph preaches Freetrade ;
it preaches that it is Freetrade which has made
England what she is; and on Saturday (25th
January) it had a burst of unexpected candour,
and in a leading article entitled “An Industrial
Inferno,” it told what England is so far as the
workers are concerned;
Once more the frightful conditions under which a large
number of men, women, and children of England pass
their lives is receiving special attention. Here, for
instance, is a picture of modern English life the like of
which has not often been seen by the public eye. It is
of certain alkali works in Lancashire, where sulphuric
acid is produced for the benefit of mankind: —
“ Everywhere about the sheds furnaces are roar-
ing, and every now and then sending forth their
blinding glare and fierce blasts of heat across the
dust-laden, gas-poisoned atmosphere. Engines are clank-
ing and gasping in all sorts of dark corners and out-of-the-
way holes, great pots of boiling caustic are hissing and
spluttering over their beds of fire, and here and there
yawn the deep, steam-covered tanks in which the caustic
ltquorls cooling:. The inhabitants of this inferno are
mostly men of splendid build, for only the strongest can
i*{ after day or night after night, the allotted
task of 12 hours’ toil in this fearful place. ome of them
. na T ef ko the waist, sweating in front and shivering
' • • The furnaces must be attended night
and day, though their scorching fumes eat out the teeth
and corrode the flesh of the men who watch them so
closely lest a batch of salt cake should be spoiled ; the
caustic pots, too, must be minded just as carefully as if
their steam did not carry particles which eat into the
flesh like a hot iron, and burn their way through the
many folds of flannel with which the tenders seek to keep
them out Of their throats and lungs. So, too, must the
men go into the bleach chambers to “pack” the lime,
despite the fact.that they are full of the deadly chlorine
gas, one clear breath of which would kill them like a dose
of poison.
This is an occupation which in a few years brings death,
irom the time they enter upon it men must stay them-
selves with alcohol and soon have to consume at least a
bottle of whisky daily. Their teeth rot away and they
, fi , ve , -V ears ki,ls ne arly all who enter here.
4£ E DOZENS OF OCCUPATIONS AS
attw TENS 0F THOUSANDS OF
nrapm® ™™, G 0F BOTH SEXES .aUE BEING
FOR NO REWARD BUT A WAGE
KEEP THEM SUFFICIENTLY
FED AND DECENTLY CLOTHED. In knife-grinding,
the working-up of coir and other material for
bedding, lead manufacturing, and several other
branches of production, early death, or at best
a lingering life of pain from the incurable diseases
contracted, is the inevitable portion of the workers.
Apart from this the existence they lead is lower than that
of most savages, degrading and demoralising, in the
extreme. It often happens that husband and wife work
m the same factory on day and night shifts alternately,
and except on Sundays never see-each other, save when
the bell rings for one shift to leave off work and the other
to. commence. Most of those who were engaged in
rejoicings over the greatness of the Fifty Years Reign
and the advance in civilisation it had brought with it
were unaware that behind the scenes such a continuous
tragedy was being enacted. . . . Women stripped to the
waist, and brutalised by their life out of all semblance of
modest womanhood, could be seen working as blacksmiths
at the nail-making forges of Cradley Heath a few years
a S°~ £ md probably still can. But the employment
of child labor has been to some extent prohibited,
the Education Acts requiring that they shall pass
certain of their years in a prescribed course of learning.
But this law is evaded to a great extent, and fre-
quently it happens that when not evaded it becomes
an additional burden upon the unfortunate children. In
an article by our special London correspondent, published
a few days ago, there was given a brief digest of Mr.
Rowntree’s new book dealing with the condition of the
wage-earners in the city of York. WHAT IS SHOWN
THERE IS THE SAME PROPORTION TO THE COM-
MUNITY OF APPALLING DESTITUTION, OF WANT
THAT IS ALWAYS ON THE VERGE OF STARVATION
AND SUBSISTS THANKFULLY ON SCRAPS AND
OFFAL NOT FIT FOR HUMAN CONSUMPTION, AS IN
LONDON. But the special feature brought out is the
fashion in which children are made to evade the school
regulations in order to earn something for the help of
wretchedly needy parents. And the child who, under
any pretext, is kept away from school and put to work of
some kind is not by any means the worst off AMONG
THE HORDE OF WRETCHED LITTLE ONES WHO
ARE PART OF THE SECRET OF ENGLAND’S GREAT-
NESS—A PART KEPT IN THE BACKGROUND WHEN
THE SHOW IS GOING ON IN FRONT. There
are others who, before and after school each day,
work for hire harder than any child having nothing else
to do should ever be allowed to work. The bodies and
minds of these unfortunates are being ruined, and a de-
generate future race produced who must, to regard the
matter in no other light, become a loss and a charge upon
the community in which they are.
And Reid, M'Millan, Conroy, Joe Cook, and
the other agents of the foreign manufacturers and
the foreign importers, promise Australia that if it
is good, and sticks to the grand principles of
Foreign-trade, it may become like England— and
like THAT.
The German Shindy.
Wellington (Maoriland) held a great anti-
German demonstration the other day, and in the
course of the proceedings Chief Justice Stout and
Premier Seddon, who were the two largest and
most explosive guns of the meeting, seem to have
displayed an amount of ignorance and foolishness
which even passed the usual Jingo standard. A
few extracts from a Sydney printed report:
For the German people the Chief Justice had a very
bitter historic pill. England had always been their
friend. He raised the curtain about the period of the
Napoleonic wars, and showed us a prostrate Germany
enabled, by the aid of British treasure, and the successful,
historic campaigns of British armies, to rise up and over-
throw the oppressor. But for Britain Germany would to-
day be a province of the French Empire of the Napoleons.
Sir Robert did not use these words at all, the words are
mine, but when he lifted the corner of the historic
curtain, not even the most careless reader, of history
could doubt his meaning. The German people had
forgotten. In peace they had been just as much be-
friended. Britain gave them everywhere the open door ;
in return, they have persistently closed all their doors,
and now they hurl at our statesmen and our soldiery
these insults, which are as false as they are disreputable.
It is a pity Robert Stout hasn’t read his history
to better advantage. When Germany rose from
its subjection to Napoleon I. there wasn’t a
British Boldier in the army which broke the
Napoleonic Empire, and Britain, despite all its
efforts, had less to do with Napoleon’s down-
fall than any other of the Great Powers of Europe.
His fall was primarily owing to the loss of 300,000
dead and 170,000 prisoners in his great Russian
campaign. Then he gathered together the last
great army, 350,000 strong, that his sinking
empire could produce, and fought the last real
campaigns of his life ; for Waterloo, two years
later, was only a hopeless flicker. At Lutzen,
where 120,000 men were engaged, the Russians
and Germans fought a drawn battle against him.
At Bautzen, where 220,000 men were engaged,
they fought another drawn battle, which lasted
two days and cost the French a loss of 25,000 men.
Napoleon’s troops were beaten by the Germans
single-handed in two desperate battles at Gross-
beeren and Katzbach, and one of his armies,
40,000 strong, was utterly destroyed and its com-
mander captured by the Russians and Austrians
at Kulm. Napoleon was beaten again by the
Germans at Dennewitz; and finally the last wreck
of his great army was crushed by the Austrians,
Germans and Russians in a 3-days’ battle at Leip-
sic, where 470,000 men were engaged—described as
“the greatest battle in all authentic history.”
Next year the Germans, Austrians and Russians
invaded France, beat Napoleon in a third hard-
fought campaign, captured Paris, and put an end
to the Napoleonic empire. Incidentally in the
campaign that closed at Leipsic they recovered for
Britain its lost kingdom of Hanover, which had
been for years a French dependency. And all
this time no British army appeared within
300 miles of the scene of trouble. A small
British army was fighting splendidly on behalf of
Spain, but that was GOO miles away from the place
where Napoleon’s fate was being decided, and
that was the nearest that Britain got to sharing in
the liberation of Germany. In fact, when the
great German campaign began, Welling-
ton’s army was still on the Portuguese
border, and his final and successful Spanish
campaign was only opening. No wonder the
Germans feel angry when blatant Jingoes
claim for Britain the credit of the campaign
which set Germany free a campaign in
which not one British regiment took part,
though by it Britain recovered a lost kingdom.
Britain certainly promised, in ISO!), that if Austria
would make another great effort against Bona-
parte it would co-operate with 40,000 men, but


the 40,000 men started from England a month
after the date when they were supposed to be on
the scene of war. Austria, left in the lurch by
the incapacity of the British War Office, fought
single-handed, and, after winning a rather pre-
carious victory at Aspern, went down at Wagram.
The campaign had been ended two weeks before
the British force sailed, and then that great army
went no further than Belgium, and was muddled
away there by incompetent generalship. As
regards the silly legend that Britain has given
Germany an open door in the matter of com-
merce while Germany has decisively banged its
portal against Britain, Germany has really kept its
commercial door so fa,r open that it buys more
from Britain than does any other State on earth —
in fact, Germany buys £7,000,000 worth more
goods annually from Britain than Britain buys
from Germany, and the gold it pays to cover the
difference is an important factor in British com-
merce. Germany, Austria (which is largely
German) and Italy are the main supports of
British commerce, insomuch as they are the only
countries of any importance which buy more from
Britain than Britain buys from them. Germany
also treats India and Australasia far better than
they treat Germany, and it lets our principal pro-
ducts in free, or almost free, while most of these
States have levied heavy duties on almost every-
thing that Germany has to sell. The spectacle of
foolish old Stout, whose State has struck German
imports with one of the highest tariffs in the
world, bragging about an “open door,” is one for
the gods to hoot at.
A Poultry Excuse.
Touching the respective sizes of gaol populations
in Vic. and N.S.W., the recent Melbourne case of
Mrs. and Miss Langdon is worth a paragraph.
These fortunate women, mother and daughter,
were charged at Fitzroy Police Court with a large
assortment of small thefts from Foy and Gibson’s
well-known store. Larcenies are many, but
arrests are few at shops of the F. and G. class,
and Mrs. and Miss Langdon would doubtless have
escaped detection had they put a reasonable limit
to their little lootings. Rapacity brought them
to grief. Having bought one small article and
paid for it the ladies prowled around the premises
seeking anything they could “shake.” Finally
they pleaded guilty to “two cards of lace, one
collarette, one ruffle, one hair-brush, one looking-
glass and other articles to the value of 17s. 6d.”
The defence put up by their hired advocate in
court was rather an aggravation of the offence
than otherwise. Mrs. and Miss L. were not mem-
bers of the criminal class, said the lawyer. They
ran a “ poultry business ” at St. Kilda, and this
was their first offence. And the daughter being
only 17 years of age, it followed, as a matter of
legal course, that her mother ought to be let off
with a fine. The Bench yielded to this strangely
persuasive argument by fining the ladies 40s. and
55., the heavier penalty falling upon dear mama.
Which suggests that there is a lot of virtue in a
poultry business. Now, if the Langdons had
been driven to their depredations by poverty and
hunger, instead of getting there on a tram oar,
and had stolen a German sausage and a pound of
tea from Foy’s, instead of a mirror, etc., they
would have ranked as shop-lifters. Impecuniosity
in a prisoner puts legal assistance out of the ques-
tion and prohibits the option of a fine. The Vic-
torian law has no mercy for the women who steal
goods which they cannot afford to buy. As an
extenuating circumstance, poverty is a paltry
thing compared with a poultry business.
♦ *
Wanted—An Official Remembrancer.
Every Australian Government should promptly
appoint an Official Remembrancer —a person with
a taste for reminiscence, and a talent for keeping
diaries, and a genius for recollecting anniversaries.
It would be the duty of this person to draw the
attention of the Government to events which
should be kept in mind, and thus to prevent
national hypocrisies from falling to pieces suddenly
and indecently instead of fading imperceptibly.
Without a stipendiary official to remind them
when they ought to be gloomy and bathed in
woe Australian Governments will, in time,
expose in all their indecency the humbug and
hypocrisy of such demonstrations of grief
as marked the death of Queen Victoria. At the
time our tears were to ever flow, and our loss to
be ever felt, and the grave in our minds was to be
ever green. There could be no forgetfulness of our
noble Queen; and statues, holidays, and large
stone buildings with marble fronts were to com-
riiem irate her loss. Last week the first anniversary
of Victoria’s death came round ; in Sydney one
solitary, small, plain wreath was put in front of
her statue. There were no public tears, no
memorial services, no bunting half-mast, no wail-
ing at all. The great,, good, glorious Queen was
forgotten as completely as a last year’s dinner.
Now an Official Remembrancer would have re-
minded the community not to lose the run of its
hypocrisy so soon, and this year at least there
would have been a sobbing child or two at the
Queen’s statue, a leader in each of the daily
papers, some pulpit references, and a few wreaths
from the advertising tea-man and the cheap-sale
draper with the unexampled two-and-ninepenny
pants. Next year grief might taper off and the
discretion of the Remembrancer would suggest a
date on which memory might be gracefully allowed
to sleep. Melbourne, by tlie way, doesn’t forget
quite so quickly as Sydney does. It started ahospi tal
or something in Queen Victoria’s honor, and the
unfinished, bankrupt, windowless structure aggra-
vates it by throwing its infirmity of purpose in its
teeth. Melbourne, in this matter, wants an
Official Forgetter—not a Remembrancer. It
wants to forget its folly in thinking that its loyal
grief would last out till that hospital was finished.
Premier Philp’s Little Game.
Premier Philp proposes to make the Kanaka
question a “straight-out fight” between the
Government and the Labor party at the coming
Queensland general election, and says he is con-
fident that the anti-Kanaka vote given at the
Federal poll will then be reversed. He means
thereby that if his party, by the aid of the plural
property vote, and by wholesale disfranchise-
ment of its opponents, succeeds at the polls,
Australia is to accept the result as a final verdict
in favour of importing Tommy Tanna. But
Australia isn’t at all likely to do anything of the
sort. The Kanaka problem is to be settled from
an Australian standpoint, and is not to be judged
because the Philp Government has stacked the
cards, and because the brick-and-mortar-vote is
hostile. Queensland has been twice appealed to
pn a one-man-one-vote franchise. Once was when
Brisbane dictated to the State that the Federal
Bill was to be rejected—and it was not rejected ;
once when Brisbane ordered Queensland to vote
the nigger ticket at the first Federal election—
and it didn’t. If Premier Philp insists on
a third time of asking, let him first amend
the local electoral, law, and appeal to Queens-
land on the basis of One Man One Vote. Also
let him allow a vote to every male Queens-
lander who is natural-born or naturalised, sane
and, out of gaol, who has resided six months in the
country, who isn’t too drunk to stand up on
polling day, and who has taken the trouble to
register. And then Australia will take some
interest in the result. At present a Queensland
election is looked upon about as disrespectfully as
a three-card trick or a South American revolution.
Yankee Grab.
The San Francisco firm of Spreokels and Co. con
tinues to worry the Federal Government for a sub-
sidy for its American mail service. The Maoriland
Government was honored, not a great while back,
with the same request, which it respectfully de-
clined. The present proposal to Australia sug-
gests the dropping out of Auckland as a calling
fiort, thereby saving a day or two in the passage
and incidentally, though that isn’t mentioned,
it may perhaps be hoped that the excision
of Auckland as a Calling port, will bring
Premier Seddon’s Cabinet to view the matter
from the San Francisco standpoint.) But a three-
weekly Pacific mail service has existed for some
years past, from Sydney to London via Vancouver
and the Canadian Pacific Railway. The difference
of length of sea voyage between this and the
Yankee service is but trifling, and, with a slightly
accelerated ocean service, a 30-day mail passage to
London could be easily obtained by the Canadian
route. The necessity of saying “No” very
firmly to Spreckels and Co. is, therefore, very
clear. When Hawaii was annexed by U.S. A., the
American navigation laws were immediately
applied to the Sandwich Isles, and Australian
mail steamers were debarred from carrying either
passengers or cargo between there and U.S.A.
ports. The same laws provided that no mail
subsidies should be granted to foreign-owned, or
partially foreign-owned vessels, by the U.S. One
effect of this was to force our local Union S.S. Co.
out of the American trade. We don’t get angry
about this policy ; it is just such a one as our local
shipowners should ask the Federal Government
to initiate on their behalf. But if Australia,
Which has been forced out of the American trade,
subsidises an American co. to come and compete
with herj own people, she will show herself very
“soft,” indeed. If a Pacific mail service to
London is needed, the Australasian company
should certainly get what subsidy such a service is
worth. A subsidy for the Messrs. Spreokels can
come with grace from only one source—the
American Government. It must be remembered
that the American trade is not of value.to Aus-
tralasia as the French and German trade is. The
American sells us much and buys little from us,
and he is the person of all persons on earth whose
trade this country could best spare.
The Presumption of a Small Pot.
Mr. E. W. Cole, a Melbourne man who, not con-
tent with selling books, wishes also to make them,
sends to The Bulletin a specimen copy of his
“A White Australia Impossible.” The reasons
why it is impossible, as enunciated by Mr. Cole,
are strange and various, but the chief one is that
the various black, brown and chocolate races are
as good as we are, if not a good deal better.
Livingstone was 20 years in Africa before he was
robbed by a native. The Japanese are clever,
fascinating, fond of children, and of flowers, and
of tea. The Chinese are clever, intelligent,
powerful. The Hindus are well educated, good
fighting men, friendly, courteous, affectionate.
Having given us all these facts at great length,
Mr. Cole utters a triumphant “There
now,” and regards a “White Australia” as a
proved impossibility. But, however valuable Mr.
Cole’s ideas may be in relation to an argument
against Australians or Englishmen interfering in
the affairs of Africans, Hindus or Chinese; how-
ever strong as reasons why Britain should abandon
India and Egypt and Ceylon and Hongkong, and
give up the hypocritical pretence of being there
for the betterment of the colored men, who it
seems are, if anything, a shade better than them-
selves ; however tremendous an indictment of the
British policy which denies some 300,000,000 of
these superior people all self-governing rights and
all political liberty—they have absolutely no
bearing on the point that the majority of Aus-
tralians wish to grow a white nation on this con-
tinent, and to buy their books from a white book-
seller, and not to see Mr. Cole’s daughters, if he has
any, wedded to Chinamen. And to that end
they wish to keep out all colored races, whatever
their virtues. Mr. Cole might just as well point
to the virtues of French or American or German
governments as reasons why we should be a foreign
instead of a kind of a British dependency. The
virtues no doubt exist, but they have absolutely no
bearing on the issue. The position is that Australia
doesn’t choose to have an Asiatic population, or an
American Government, and that’s the end of the
argument. If any other method of reasoning is
required, it can best proceed on the lines of the
absolute Law, call it Natural or call it Divine,
which decrees that for the proper carrying out of
the Great Purpose of race evolution the various
races must keep pure, the White Man working
out his destiny, the Yellow Man his, without
admixture of blood, The mongrel, white and
yellow, white and black, or yellow and black, is
usually a degenerate, neither good European, good
African, nor good Asiatic; but a pitiful wretch of
wonderful viciousness and little virtue. That is so
by decree of the Potter, and it is a very foolish and
presumptuous Pot that tries with his little atom
of clay to upset the Great (Scheme.
Freetrade for the Freetrade Papers.
The suggestion on the part of the Sydney morning
Freetrade papers that, when the Federal postage
law abolishes the free carriage of their parcels, the
State Government should subsidise the railway
department to continue the present “paper
trains,” marks the acme of impudence. At
present the N.S.W. Government not only allows
free postage, which amounts to 50 per cent. Pro-
tection on the Sydney Freetrade paper as against
the Melbourne and Brisbane Freetrade paper,
but at the publication hour of the two morning
journals (3.30 a.m.) it runs special express trains to
carry the Herald and Telegraph to the various
country towns. These trains are nominally freight
trains, but, in reality, they earry very little but
the newspapers; they are run as fast expresses,
which makes them immensely mere expensive
than the ordinary freight and passenger train; and
ordinary freight traffic, and sometimes even pas-
senger traffic, is delayed for their convenience.
The loss to the country on running them is calcu-
lated at nearly £IOO,OOO a year. And the two
newspaper proprietaries which have been calmly
annexing that sum year after year as a bonus, in
addition to the bonusof free postage, have had the
ineffable impudence to always raise a strident
protest against any proposal to help any other Aus-
tralian industry but that of paper-publishing in
any fashion whatsoever. It is the one point on
which these two papers have always been unani-
mous, that whilst themselves enjoying not only
50 per cent Protection, but also direct cash assist-
ance to the extent of nearly £IOO,OOO a year, no
struggling little industry was to get the advantage
of even so much as a Protective duty which would
cost the people nothing. A proposal to help the
sugar-grower, or the farmer, or the artisan, out of
the State purse, or with the State power of Pro-
tection was “ robbing the people ” ; Mr. Fairfax
and Mr. J. Randal Carey were the only persons
in the community who could be subsidised
without pauperising them and robbing others.
The “reason” on which this astounding plea is
based is that Mr. Fairfax and Mr. Carey are
engaged in business for the better education of
the people, and, as disseminators of valuable
educational works, deserve special encourage-
ment. But no one outside of a lunatic asylum
believes that. The S.M.H. and D.T. proprietaries
are in just the same position as the vendors of
soap, or candles, or whisky, or rubber-toys—in
business for what they can make out of it, and for
that only. Like all other associations of
capitalists, they have one object, and one
oidy, in view—to earn dividends. Now that a
Federal Government is in power, on which they
cannot bring the same pressure as was used to
squeeze this magnificent subsidy out of the State
administration, they hope to still rob the com-
munity by inducing the State to go behind the
back of the Commonwealth and continue the
yearly present. But, even if the See Government
attempted so scandalous a job, probably Federal
law would intervene and decree the bonus to the
morning paper printing business illegal, as inter-
fering with inter-State Freetrade and the rights
of the evening journals and of the provincial
papers of the State. And there is great joy in
the prospect of seeing the two bloated paper pro-
prietaries getting the Freetrade they have always
howled for, and asked to walk out of the hot-
house into “the bracing atmosphere of Free-
trade” and struggle after dividends without a
pauperising annual grant from the State.
♦
A Sweet Scented Coaster.
Some valuable information as to the Australian
shipping customs was gathered by certain Mel-
bourne citizens who booked passages to Tasmania
recently by a small coaster.
They found the upper deck crammed with sheep, and
the other decks so piled up with cargo that there was no
room for the passengers, who had to go on to the bridge,
or a small passage on each side of the cabins and
saloon. The vessel was so deeply laden that in the Tamar
they were unable to see her Plimsoll mark. The vessel
took much water, and the filth from the sheep ran down
on to the passengers, so that they had to keep the door of
the saloon closed.
One of the passengers, Mr. Le Soeuf, wrote to
the Victorian Marine Board after the voyage
setting forth these facts. The defence put for-
ward by the agents, as per “ Inspector’s Report,”
stated that they had tried to dissuade the intend-
ing passengers from booking in the vessel. As
the law at present stands the Board found itself
powerless to take action. Vessels authorised to
carry less than twelve passengers are quite at
liberty to load up their deck with sheep or pigs.
As to the point that the vessel was so deeply
laden that passengers were unable to see the load-
line mark, the excuse given was that it had been
“ painted over.” Yet the law is supposed to re-
quire that the circle and bar should be always vis-
ible. Periodically, however, there come disclosures
which show either the lax administration or the
inherent faultiness of Australian shipping laws.
The problem of enforcing proper regulations upon
coastal shipping is never grappled with in real
earnest, though spasmodic attempts at reform are
common. The root reason is that the conditions
on the British and foreign tramp, which is
allowed to take as much of the coastal trade as it
can get, are so cheap that in order to give the
Australian coaster any chance at all to compete, a
good deal, of overloading, under-manning, and
other dangerous practices have to be winked at.
Australia must start by protecting her shipping
interest, even at the risk of some prejudice to that
jolly British tar, Stefanopolos Levanticus,
before she can seriously undertake to enforce
proper conditions on her coastal shipping.
—.4 —
“ Gumleaf ” tells an interesting tale:
The dispute now raging at Melbourne Women’s Hospital
is the inevitable result of allowing a lot of society dames
and a few society male-pets to run an institution of the
kind. This is the same crowd that sometime ago defended
its action in making a distinction between the married
and unmarried women treated in the midwifery depart-
ment. The present fiasco is a most ludicrous affair. The
position really is that two youthful doctors have taken
possession of the midwifery department of the hospital.
The committee, on hearing from one of the honorary
medical men that there was a case of septicaemia in the
hospital, ordered the midwifery branch to be closed at
once. This step was taken in an outburst of sudden
fright, and against the advice of the resident medical
statf, which had taken every precaution to prevent the
spread of the disease. The staff, therefore, refused to
obey the committee’s orders, and one of the doctors is
said to have told the society dames to their faces that
they were a “collection of hysterical old women.”
Whether this is so or not, the dames rushed off
to a general committee meeting and reported that
they had been insulted. The dames thereupon ap-
pointed a sub-committee of the male members to deal
with, the doctors. And then, for two days, the general
committee and the sub-committee besieged the hospital,
which was stoutly defended by the medical staff, the
superintendent, and the matron of the midwifery depart-
ment. One day the fight raged from 11 o’clock in the morn-
ing until late in the evening. The general committee
made the Town Hall its headquarters, and fighting parties
were sent out to attack from time to time. Each time
the committee was driven off with great moral defeat,
and, although one party placarded the outer walls of the
hospital with bills setting forth that the place was-closed
by order of the committee, the doors are still wide open,
and the doctors continue to admit and treat patients.
The ground upon which the doctors take their stand is
that they cannot see women die in the street for want of
proper attention. The committee, on the other hand, de-
clares that it had made arrangements for ample accom-
modation for patients elsewhere. It is alleged, however,
that, at one of the places at which the ample accommoda-
tion hangs out, there are two beds only available. It is
stated that another place where it was arranged to ac-
commodate patients was the gaol hospital. If the
latter item is true, what woman wouldn’t rather take her
chance almost anywhere than have her child, to all
intents and purposes, born in gaol ? Meanwhile, although
the Catmittee summarily dismissed the secretary and
gave the two doctors a month’s, notice, the medicos are
masters of the situation and are continuing to receive
patients.
In the House of Representatives last week
Mauger, of Victoria, rose up to propose that a 10
per cent. Protective duty be levied on wire-
netting, and mentioned incidentally that the
N.S.W. wire-netting industry started under the
Dibbs tariff. This brought a loud bray from
Conroy, the blatant and useless Importers’ De-
puty from N.S.W., who stated that if Mauger
could prove the last part of his statement, he,
Conroy; would give £IOO to the hospital. Well,
the wire-netting industry was started'in N.S.W.
by Messrs Lysaght Bros, in 1886, when Jennings
was Premier arid Dibbs Treasurer. The then tariff
was commonly known as the Dibbs tariff,
and under it wire-netting was protected to
the extent of 5 per cent. There was no
wire-netting industry before Dibbs and Jennings
put that duty on, though there was a wire indus-
try, and it started because one of the Freetrade
Governments that immediately preceded Dibbs
and Jennings protected wire with a duty of 20s.
per ton. Coghlan puts the wire and wire-netting
industries under one heading. The business em-
ployed 31 hands before the J ennings-Dibbs duty
was put on ; then it jumped in one year to 142
hands. It grew further after that, but under
Reid’s tariff it began to decline a little. Still, it
was kept alive, though with little profit to tha
manufacturers, by cutting down wages. In tha
time of the iast Dibbs tariff, when wire-netting
was still protected, Coghlan quotes wages
(Statistical Register of N.S.W. for 1894, page
571), “ Wire-workers, minimum 48s. per week.”
Same authority, speaking of the Reid Freetrade
period, quotes (Statistical Register for 1899,
page 992), “ Wire-workers, minimum wage, 355.
per week. ” This year Coghlan quotes the average
wage—not the minimum—at 40s. per week; Bs. per
week .less than the minimum of six years ago
(Statistical Register for 1900, part XI., page
22). Under these circumstances, will Conroy,
the German manufacturers’ deputy, who ap-
parently howls at the bidding of his pro-Boer
German masters, please send that £IOO along at
once to Sydney Hospital.
Melbourne Argus has of late almost broken its
neck in an endeavor to assimilate certain pro-
positions that won’t hang together a little bit.
First it started interviewing various farmers’
wives, mostly in Gippsland, and made the novel
discovery that the lot of these workers is a
hard one. Most Australians who know and
study their country were quite aware of this
before, but the Argus was so shocked that it
straightway proposed a remedy—Freetrade, its
universal panacea for all ills, from bad seasons to
ingrowing toenails. Then it invited remarks from
farmers all over the State, the burden of whose
was the increasing scarcity of labor and the
iniquity of a Factories Act which enforces a mini-
mum wage, always a much higher wage than the far-
mer says he can afford to pay. Between whiles this
awfully illogical paper, in sub-leaders and leader-
ettes (13/l/’O2 and 15/l/’O2) laid it down that the
great need of this State was to get the people on
the land—which occupation, it says, gives a
maximum of hard work for a minimum of profit:
while in order to improve the producer’s lot it
proposed to reduce wages in the factories (after
saying that Protection had reduced them already)
so that the farmer may have plenty of cheap
labor. It has advocated black labor all along, but
apparently it has dropped the cheap Hindu for
the time being. Furthermore, to keep up the
discrepancy of things, it states (15/l/’O2) that “the
great want of Australia is, after all, people, ” and, in
the same issue, gives great space to a letter from
a correspondent urging that another 2000 or 3000
of the best citizens should be sent away contin-
genting!
The fiscal controversy in N.S. Wales has been
enlivened at intervals by the publication of a
few remarkable facts from a working man “who
has just been down to Melbourne” and who
noticed that the grass was growing in the streets,
and the women and children were reaping it with
great care as it formed their staple article of food.
“These facts conclusively prove,” the editor of
the freetrade paper always remarked in conclusion
“how disastrous are the results of the Creatura
Protection.” Now away down in Victoria they
are beginning to publish belated facts about
the ravages of freetrade in Sydney. This was a
“Geelong protectionist’s” experience :
I have been through every suburb of Sydney, and have
everywhere seen the same spectacle—bare-footed boys
and girls up to fourteen years, half-starved-looking women
and—dirt. All the working men of Sydney wear the
lowest priced 3s. 6d. blucher boot, almost unsaleable in
Victoria. You have only to look at the workmen’s faces
to be impressed that they are little more than half-fed.
For a product of sleepy Geelong there is a good
deal of wild energy about that item. t
The ink was scarcely dry on the Federal Parlia-
ment’s foolish resolution that it would gladly pro-
vide more troops for Africa, before Chamberlain
was pounding at the door demanding another 1000
men. These men, like the contingent of a few
weeks ago which hasn’t started yet, are to be paid
ss. a day—apparently it is considered difficult to
raise men, despite all the alleged Imperial enthusi-
asm hereabouts, unless they get better wages than
most of them could make just now at any other
occupation. And the British Government is to
pay them. Despite the alleged enthusiasm, this
country’s politicians decline to part up a copper in
prompt cash, though they have certainly paid
some of the past contingents to the extent of
adding the bill to the public debt and leaving the
actual payment to posterity. And so deadly re-
solved are the .high political Jingoes of Australia
not to pay anything that the new contingenters
are explicitly pledged not to look to any Australian
Government for so much as a copper, even if perman-
ently disabled. It is simply a matter of exporting
so much meat. Yet the top-hatted Loyalists who
Stay Behind —who don’t fight and don’t pay, and
who besiege the British Government for profitable
meat contracts so that they may make some money
out of Britain in its hour of trouble—pose in the
same old way as men who are doing something
really tremendous for the Empire. Also, many
of them are trying hard to saddle their incom-
petent relatives on the British Government as
contingent officers at high pay—quite regardless
of the damage the incapacity of these relatives
may do to the Empire.
Says Perth Morning Herald— another blind
leader of the blind :
The returns for the first six months of the financial year
show that Western Australia has wonderful recuperative
powers. Time and again it has seemed that the State was
rushing' upon the financial rocks, but on each occasion
she has avoided the danger in the most wonderful man-
ner. A year ago the outlook was dismal. There was a
deficit, which went on increasing until, at the end of the
half-year, it had increased to £74,000. By the end of
November that deficit had been converted into a credit
of £40,000 ; and now, at the end of the half-year, that
credit has groivn to £92,000.
Exactly so. Westralia borrows £3,000,000 in six
months —over £ls per inhabitant, or £6O per
family of four ; which is at the rate of £3O per
inhabitant, or £l2O per family of four, per annum.
In other words, it borrowed enough during the
half-year to keep its whole population in compara-
tive luxury without working. And when the
people had all this borrowed money to spend in
buying dutiable goods and so on, of course the
revenue went up, and Westralia “recuperated.”
The first year Australia can’t raise its usual
foreign loans there will be such an all-round
slum]) as no man remembers, and the Australian
working man will be darned glad to earn 2s. 6d. a
day—or 2s. 4d.
In the Federal Parliament Freetrader Joe Cook,
of N.S.W. (backed up by George Reid, of
N.S.W.) has been frantically demanding a 10 per
cent. Protective duty on iron rails, which threaten
to be made in Joe Cook’s electorate. Also certain
members from Broken Hill and the Westralian
goldfields have been urging that the proposed
duties on machinery should be abolished, oil the
ground -that Protection will increase the
cost of mining. Seeing that Westralia has
hitherto bought about half its mining


FOR YOUR HOLIDAYS
gdf
premo & poco Cameras.
LARGEST PHOTOGRAPHIC STORE
IN AUSTRALIA.
PHOTOGRAPHIC, MAGIC LANTERN and EDISON’S TALKING
MACHINE Catalogues mailed on application.
laksr & Rouse Proprietary
LIMITED, *
375 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
260 Collins Street
MELBOURNE.
90 and 92 Queen Sti-ee + ,
BRISBANE.
65 Rundle Street,
ADELAIDE.
oawmill machinery.
° BAND or CIRCULAR MILLS, very heavy for
hardwood timber. Complete Outfits of any capa-
city. BAND RESAWS. ENGINES. BOILERS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
PULP MACHINERY. GRIP PULLEYS.
FLOUR MILLING MACHINERY.
“ ALLIS ” ROLLER FLOUR MILLS on the
UNIVERSAL BOLTER SYSTEM.
WILLIAM FLEMING, 24 Clarenoe-street, SYDNEY.
Sei)d Os yoOr
IP you send a Photograph of yourself (or friend) to Mr.
Mark Blow, The Crown Studios, Sydney, and also
send the following “ COUPON,” he will reproduce from
the Photo, a
Very Beautiful and Artistically-Finished
Pcripapcpt Cpfargcipcpt
in Monochrome, equalling a rich Steel-Plate Engraving,
handsomely mounted on an Indian Tinted Plate, sunk
mount, and as good in every way as Enlargements now
being supplied at from 30s. to 50s. each ; and will care-
fully pack it and send it, Parcel Post Paid, to any address
in Australia, Tasmania or New Zealand for 10s. 6d.
YOUR PHOTO. RETURNED WITH ORDER.
Cut out the following Coupon and send it with your
Photo.
[Bulletin]
COUPON,
To M. BLOW (Photographer to His Excellency
the Governor-General, Lord Hopetoun),
The Crown Studios, George Street Sydney.
Please have the enclosed Photograph Enlarged
and Mounted, as per this Special Offer, and forward
it to me, carriage paid, to the following address, for
which I enclose 10s. 6d. in full payment.
Name
Address
Write your Name on the back of the Photograph, to
avoid errors.
The Name of the Grown Studios is a guarantee of
Good Work and a Faithful Reproduction,
machinery in Victoria or South Australia —
apparently because protected States turn
out the best and cheapest work—and that the
bulk of Australian machinery imports have come
for some years either from these two protected
Australian States or from protected America and
Germany, there seems to be a large hole in the
argument somewhere. Why does Australia buy
its machinery so largely from protected countries
if Freetrade makes things cheaper?
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
ROYAL “ Alice in Wonderland."
Lyceum ... “ For a Child’s Sake.”
Palace “ Professor’s Love Story.”
Criterion. “The Executioner’s Daughter.”
Empire Fuller Co.
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “Aladdin.”
Her Majesty’s “ San Toy.”
Theatre Royal “ The Derby Winner."
Bijou World’s Entertainers.
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
That the attendance at “ Ernani ” the first
time of this season was rather below the average
may, perhaps, be attributed to the fact that the
musical education of Sydney is now complete.
Superior persons are in the habit of talking of
works like “ Ernani ” as “ those old operas.” That
they are old is true; they share this defect with
Shakespeare and, in a less degree, with Homer,
whose works, according to some, appear to
have been a sort of protoplasm of opera,
of which the libretto only has been
preserved. Ordinary persons, of course, might
suppose that if an opera is old, and yet
keeps on the stage, that argues it to possess some
particular excellence, seeing that there are many
operas, both old and young, which are quite for-
gotten. We have been treated lately to too much
talk about the modern school of Italian composers,
and the dramatic qualities of “ Fedora” have been
quoted as an example. Yet, could “Fedora ” be
produced, for the first time, to-morrow night, and
“ Ernani ” also, for the first time, upon the night
following, one cannot help wondering what the
verdict of the critics would be as between the two
operas. One wonders less what it will be in 20
years’ time. It is pretty certain that on behalf of
“Fedora” there will be “no appearance” of the
defendant, and her bail will be forfeited.
* * • *
Until near rhe close of the opera Signora de
Benedetto was at her best. The way in which
she is able to ring out those top notes, without ap-
parent effort, clear above the full course of|chorus
and orchestra, is remarkable. Larizza sang well,
but seemed tired. There is always this comfort
about him, however—he never indulges in a ghost
of that tremolo which disfigures the naturally
fine voice of Cattadori. As Don Silva,
Travagalini was, as always, distinguished.
Towards the end there was a falling away
from the spirited standard of the early
part of the performance. This was more notice-
able in the chorus than elsewhere, and it was not
to be wondered at. Nothing but admiration is
possible for the gallant fight which was made
against the depressing effects of an intolerably
close and muggy atmosphere. It was so hot,
indeed, that the persistent wearing of their hats
(in the house), by both principals and chorus, in
many cases became a matter of surprise. What
is the origin of this particular practice, so often
seen upon the stage? The King (otherwise, no
doubt, privileged) enters a lady’s chamber disguised
and wearing his hat. The chorus people follow,
wearing their hats. They keep them on during
long conversations with ladies on the stage, and
only remove them at last when they have to bow
their acknowledgments to the audience, and then,
on nights like the one above mentioned, a steam
like unto washing-day or a small volcano arises from
their heads, and one yearns to dab them benevo-
lently with a large sheet of blotting-paper.
#
“ The Professor’s Love Story,” at Sydney
Palace, whilst not occasioning such riotous en-
thusiasm as the story of the otner professor who
went to a glove-fight and brought a black eye and
a ghastly incubus named Jones home with him, is
being greeted with hearty laughter and an
occasional moist-eyed sniff by large audiences.
The broader fun of the piece, caused by a young
Scotchman bartering away his best girl to an
older Scotchman, and throwing in an eight-day
clock, a tea-caddy, and a vessel that need not be
specified, to clinch the bargain, is greeted with
extra joy. Every character in the piece is
played in good fashion by a company which shows
a noble absence of tail.
* * # *
“Alice in Wonderland” will soon move
from Sydney Royal, and the Mock-Turtle, and
the Walrus, and the Dormouse, and the Fourth
Rabbit seek fresh waters and burrows new. A
feature of the run has been the very great success
of the matinees, on which occasions, from floor to
gallery, the theatre has always been a garden of
pretty childhood. The Royal will next be occu-
pied by Musgrove’s Co., playing “Aladdin,”
when it is confidently expected that the old
gentlemen’s bath chairs, mentioned in last issue,
will block up every available entrance. There are
reputed to be many thrilling girls in “Aladdin,”
and aged, rich and gouty inhabitants of this great
country may always be relied upon under such
circumstances.
* * * *
“The Executioner’s Daughter,” written
by E. Hill Mitchelson, and staged by C. E. Hol-
loway at Sydney Criterion last Saturday, is a play
considerably above the ordinary melodramatic
slush. It has to do mostly with the Executioner’s
two daughters, a bad one and a good one, and the
first act ends with the characters finding out un-
pleasant truths about each other. Good Daughter
Annette discovers that her father’s occupation
has to do with decreasing the population, and
roams sadly away with her husband, who, by the
way, crippled his own child. The Executioner
finds out that his daughter is secretly married,
and is broken up, partly by that and partly by
the various beheaded people who haunt him
in his dreams. Later on, the Executioner’s
son-in-law attributes the murder of an un-
important person to his wife, the evidence
being, as usual, insufficient, but as all this
happens in France, the anomaly is not so glaring
as in ordinary dramas. In melodrama, distance
lends coherence to the yarn. Anyway, when the
real reprieve doesn’t come, and the reprieve the
Telegraph Inventor invented isn’t forthcoming
either, and when all the heroine’s friends, in tall,
black hats, have come to see her beheaded by her
own parent, the utility of having an Executioner
in the family is made evident. That official
brings down the guillotine axe on nothing at all
and refuses to lift it again, Annette’s husband,
as High Sheriff, thereupon claims the privilege of
despatching Annette, whereat the Telegraph
Operator snatches the reprieve out of that
functionary’s tall, black hat (where he had
hidden it in the day of trouble), and all
is peace for the time being. In the next
act, things are naturally disjointed again,
owing to the reprieve _ being a forgery, and most
of the characters are hiding from justice in con-
sequence. Various deadly wounds are inflicted on
people, who get better immediately. The Execu-
tioner is stabbed hard in the back by the Bad
Daughter, but recovers in time for the general
rejoicings without having his wounds staunched
or any particular attention being paid to the
matter. He gets quite hilarious when he reflects
that he will have the job of beheading his son-in-
law ; and so all ends in peace and concord.
• * * *
C. R. Stanford is really satisfactory as the
self-sacrificing Executioner, who elected to make
coin for his daughters by means that interfered
with his digestion, and gave him the horrors at
night, and never really afforded him any satisfac-
tion till he beheaded his son-in-law. Miss Helene
Burdette takes the part of the Good Daughter,
and though this paper has often remarked that it
prefers her Bad, she manages to droop very
naturally as the persecuted heroine. Miss Madge
Hope is clever, in an amateurish way, as the Bad
Daughter, but her acting is rather wanting in light
and shade. Laurence Dunbar has not much to do
except console Helene in the day of adversity,
and his conduct in being present at the
execution and looking very nice in new black
clothes and a gentlemanly hat, doubtless expresses
the French idea of politeness. George P. Carey
as Tom Holmes does a number of kind actions
“ because he is an Englishman, ” and is beloved by
the gallery in consequence. Miss Alice Deorwyn,
also a favorite with that section of the audience,
is a humorous servant girl; and altogether the
show may be commended as a nice, quiet Horror,
excellent of its kind.
* * * *
“ For a Child’s Sake,” at Sydney Lyceum,
is rather overweighted with an asylum, which
is the one unvaried horror that shadows the
career of the heroine, and therefore tends to
monotony. Miss Ada Guildford, the heroine
alluded to, makes her appearance in act I. as the
sort of New Woman that everyone likes to see
married to someone else. After half-an-hour or
so, however, she subsides into the usual female
with a shriek, whom Robert Inman incarcerates in
an asylum, on the authority of one medical certi-
ficate. . Bert Bailey is also incarcerated therein
for having upset a screen, and later the heroine’s
son is deposited in the same emporium in order to
get better of scarlatina or something of that sort.
The medical authorities having declared Ada
“ dangerous,” remark later on that “ she can have
her child with her,” and the act then rounds
off gracefully with flames and shriek. In the
next act the heroine is wandering about the
country in a state of such genuine insanity that no
one thinks about putting her in an asylum. As
she recovers her sanity—which she does in de-
tachments—she naturally comes under the opera-
tion of the lunacy laws once more, and the asylum
awaits her. At this juncture the villain’s accom-
plice confesses things, and the villain retires to
the back, kills himself, and is declared to be shot
through the heart—all within the space of half a
second. The play then ends abruptly with nobody
getting married. There is no one to marry Ada,
but as she has had two husbands already, this is,
perhaps, just as well. There is also no one for
the nice girl that Ada’s husband wanted to marry
bigamously; and the chivalrous young man who
stood up for Ada’s sanity is left engaged to an
admiral’s daughter, who welcomes his courtship
with the observation that he is rather too ready
with his flipper—a remark that does not savour
of high society. A drama that leaves most of the
characters strictly detached from one another has
the charm of novelty.
* * * *
Ada Guildford acts well in the mad scene,
and it is not her fault, but Shakespeare’s, that insane
ladies are supposed to have a passionate attach-
ment for flowers. Bert Bailey has one of the
parts that suit him. Sterling Whyte is up to his
usual standard as the retired Admiral who hasn’t
brought his daughter up properly; and Helen
Fergus does her small part of the Asylum Nurse
with some force. And all these people contrive
to look as if they took the drama quite seriously
and as if there were nothing ridiculous about their
asylum.
* * # *
The programme at Sydney Tivoli has been
further enlarged by two new turns. Gallando, a
modeller, kneads out of clay, with great speed
and fair success, various faces, but the part of his
performance which comes closest to the heart of
the audience is the vigorous, whole-hearted way
in which he slaps the mud about between pictures.
A man who can throw the raw material of Crea-
tion about in so vigorous a fashion would be a
treasure in politics or personal journalism. In
addition to the modeller there is a model, Mdlle.
Lotty, a lady with a figure which has so far been
pretty well received. Apparently it is all
genuine, for Mdlle. poses dressed in thin
silk fleshings and a smile, and depends
for any other clothing effect on stereopticon
pictures cast by a magic lantern. The spectacle
of this lady arrayed in a view of the lilies of the
field, or wrapped in a light and airy presentment
of the Australian flag, has a good deal to recom-
mend it. Mr. Winton continues to be a strong
“turn.” His jokes are reasonably fresh and are
changed frequently, and the old wheeze does not
linger on the stage when he is there till it is
brown and sere like the falling wheezes of autumn
dropping off the tree of humor. The public isn’t
intensely critical about having its jokes quite
new-laid, still it would rather hear three old jokes
than one old joke three times, and Mr. Winton
evidently knows this and acts accordingly.
* * * IK
At Her Majesty’s (Melb.), a somewhat re-
vised edition of “ San Toy ” was published on
Saturday, when a large audience came to see how
far it differed from the original edition. The only
noticeable change in the first act was Hugh Ward
as the British Consul person, who has just enough
brains to work the Pinka Bong Government (which
consists of one fat mandarin) for a railway con-
cession. Ward achieved his railway from There-
ah to There-ah with a more elusive humor than
his two predecessors in the part, but, seeing that
they were reasonable caricatures of consular
humanity, whereas Ward makes Sir Bingo an un-
tidy suggestion of Cyrus Gilfain, from “Floro-
dora” he didn’t strengthen the “San Toy” nar-
rative.
* * • *
The second act introduced Ward in his
favorite character of a spruce ancient in frock-
coat and shiny bell-topper, for the purpose of “a
new cane dance,and duet, entitled ‘My Pekin
Chinese Lady,’ ” Miss Maud Chetwynd being the
other duettist. Maud wore a short crimson skirt,
and her usual festive Australian appearance, but
she was guiltless of a tall hat, and altogether the
turn looked as though it had paused half-way in
an intention to do something like the Permans’
Cake Walk. The success of the Dartos parody
last year threatens to result in the feeble system
of imitatiye “ novelty ”at Her Majesty’s. Since
then Carrie Moore has mimicked Irene Franklin,
which, considering that Franklin had been a
special attraction under the same management as
Carrie, seemed to be playing the game right down
to the old variety hall level. On Saturday friend
Lauri appealed for cheap applause with “an
attempt to eclipse even the marvellous feats of
the ‘ Emperor of Coins ’ ” (vide advt.), and the
puerility of Lauri’s burlesque appeared to please
some people. All the same, “San Toy,” or any
other musical trifle, doesn’t deserve to be treated
as a new and original comedy if it goes borrowing
ideas from rival entertainments of the period.
Miss Gassman and her piccaninnies cropped up at
Her Majesty’s for two or three nights last week,
and, although the white lady who browns herself
was only a short loan from the Bijou, this scribe
is haunted by the dread that Carrie Moore or
somebody will presently break out with an
imitation of Josephine and her imps of darkness.
*
“ Aladdin,” at the Princess’s, is exactly the
same presentation of smart people and exceptional
splendor as it was on Boxing Night. The spectacle
grows more beautiful on acquaintance and Nellie
Stewart improves every week, but the order of
“Aladdin” alteretli not. Hard work has de-
veloped new vivacity in the only Nellie. Also
her dancing has recovered the old Australian
form, and when she figures in the forefront of the
coon ballet in the pink forest the multitude wants
to know whether this country will ever raise
another girl to equal her.
#* * «
Bland Holt is changing his bill at Melb.
Royal next Saturday, by which time the light-
house on the Coffin Rocks will have run short of
oil for more than five weeks. Out of consideration
for Brunton’s scenery, and the self-sacrificing
acrobats who consent to be walked upon, this
journal refrains from expressing its last grand
final farewell thoughts about the murder of
Brightie Smith and other awful incidents in “The
Span.” The Arabs of the desert may consider
themselves forgiven. Also, Miss Ross is pardoned
for her habit of languishing, but only on the dis-
tinct understanding that she will never languish
again. The bill for Saturday is “The Derby
Winner,” a drama with solid pretensions to liter-
ary merit, and a well-established reputation for
gee-gee. The late Sirgustus Harris conspired with
Cecil Raleigh and Henry Hamilton in the manu-
facture of “The Derby Winner,” and the result
was about the absolutely horsiest story that ever
made Walter Baker happy in the last act. The
first act smells of horse, the second act has a
Derby trial in the early morning, the third intro-
duces a sale of thoroughbred animal at Tattersall’s,
and the fourth carries Baker’s colors first past the
post with a bit to spare. And there are officahsin
it. Not heroes who go to the front accompanied
by 200 miles of baggage and a piano, but peaceful,
punting pillars of the divorce court. Even Bland
will be a surgeon-captain on Saturday.
*« * *
The rival variety shows have come to a
Eeriod when both of them ought to take a week’s
oliday for the benefit of their health, and leave
Melbourne to recover from the effects of their
competition. At the New Opera House, that
bright little woman, Ada Delroy, who was the
first of Rickard’s “star ” turns at the old Opera
House, has come back in a pleasing frame of
mind, together with a long Bell named James, the
other long Bell in the co. being Bob. The Jack-
son Family and numerous people previously men-
tioned are still there, but Peggy and the pugna-
cious clay modeller have passed on. At the Bijou,
the last week of the Lottos, the Picks, the Bur-
glar, &c., begins on Saturday, and it is understood
that another company of World’s Entertainers,
from America, will follow them on Feb. 9th.
** m *
Williamson’s Italian Opera co. is to make
two farewell Melbourne appearances, in concerts,
at the Town Hall, next Wednesday (sth) and
Thursday. The Bulletin also desires to mention
that a popular Italian artist, Signorina Maggie
Moore, has just about closed her season at the
Gaiety, and gone to Adelaide, before sailing for
America.
** * *
“ Sweet Nell of Old Drury,” due at Melb.
Princess’s on Feb. 15, with Nellie Stewart in the
name part, is quite different in style from any pre-
vious comedy or comedy-drama that Australia has
seen. The costumes and scenic effects will be
beautiful, it is said, and the picturesque central
character gives Nellie Stewart a great chance.
A paragraph in ‘ ‘ Society ” last week, re-
ferring to a “ Cape-cart,” has evoked from the
gentleman who brought the vehicle to N.S.W. a
statement that “it is his sole property, has
remained so from the time it came into his hands
m 8 Africa up to the present time, and it was
never consigned to any other person. It was
brought to the State as his own property, and not
on behalf of any other person.”
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The first loan of 1902 is on the market. Westra-
lia, which borrowed £1,500,000 at 3 per cent., in London,
last September, and made a huge loss on the transaction,
is now borrowing another £1,500,000, in London, at 3J per
cent. This is, at least, much more honest than the last
transaction, for the State will get something over par in-
stead of about £B9, and it won’t pay about £170,000 of the
interest out of borrowed money by getting £1,330,000 and
giving its 1.0. U. for £1,500,000, in order to secure a reduc-
tion in the interest-rate. All the same, this loan will
raise Westralia’s public debt to something like £7O per
head. In 1891 Westralia had the smallest debt per head
among the seven States of Australasia. It has now the
largest, save the debts of Queensland and S.A., and it is
running them very closely indeed.
• * * *
It is reckoned that Tasmania closed its financial
year on 31st December with a deficit of £28.066. It is
not so very large, but it is a grievous slump as compared
with recent years :
1895 .. Surplus £13,025 1899 .. Surplus £72,516
1896 .. „ 47,732 1900 .. „ 131,249
1897 .. „ 59,993 1901 .. Deficit 28,666
1898 .. „ 78,055
Tasmania, at the close of 1900, had got its old deficit
down to £52,555 ; and it is now raised again to £81,221.
This is after collecting its inter-State customs for nine
months of the year ; next year, with no inter-State cus-
toms revenue at all, the shortage, unless something is
done, will probably approach £200,000. Tasmania, of
course, pays a vast amount less taxation through the
abolition of inter-State customs, and if its legislators
would put on a corresponding amount of new taxation
then it would be under no extra burdens, and would be
as solvent as before. Their cowardly refusal to replace
the abolished taxation by new imposts is the cause of the
whole trouble.
* • * *
Hereunder are reviewed a number of balance-
sheets, almost all of which show a considerable increase
of profits as compared with the immediately preceding
half-years. And it is a solemn reflection that all the new
prosperity thereby reflected arises through public borrow-
ing—the wildest, maddest borrowing that Australia has
known for a dozen years. Work is becoming more
plentiful because the various Governments are finding
employment for a vast proportion of the people on public
works paid for with borrowed money. Revenues are im-
proving—the scattering of twelve or fourteen millions of
foreign loan moneys among the people within a year
supplies them with the means to buy lots of goods, and
that brings in customs and excise revenues. Property
values are going up—the abundance of borrowed moneys
sends up values, and rents go up as properties rise. Bank
deposits are increasing—people put the wages and profits
they make out of the borrowed moneys in the hanks.
When the foreign loans stop or seriously diminish—and
no country can borrow for ever—probably the profits of
all these prosperous-looking concerns will diminish by
half; many of the reserves will disappear ; and some of
the concerns will disappear bodily.
• * * »
The Commercial Banking Co., of Sydney:—
Profits. Dividends. R^ves.
June, 1896 .. £40,303 8 per cent. = £39,966 £1,025,071
Dec., 1896.. 40,067 „ „ 40,000 1,025,138
June, 1897 .. 40,119 „ „ 40,000 1,025,257
Dec., 1897 .. 40,150 „ „ 40,000 1,025,407
June, 1898 .. 40,410 „ „ 40,000 1,025,817
Dec., 1898.. 40,864 „ „ 40,000 1,026,681
June, 1899 .. 42,340 „ „ 40,000 1,029,021
Dec., 1899.. 45,251 9 „ „ 45,000 1,029,272
June, 1900 .. 50,880 10 „ „ 50,000 1,030,152
Dec., 1900.. 51,509 10 „ „ 50,000 1,031,661
June, 1901 .. 51,228 10 „ „ 50,000 1,032,889
Dec., 1901 .. 61,249 10 „ „ 50,000 1,034,138
The earnings represent £5 os. lOd. per cent, per annum
on the shareholders’ funds as at the commencementof half-
year (capital £1,000,000, and reserves £1,032,889). During
the half-year deposits have increased by over £400,000,
and now stand at almost £12,000,000 ; note circulation
has increased by about £37,000 ; and the reserve of cash
and liquid securities has grown by about £BOO,OOO, and
amounts to £5,790,884. This is equal to over 42 per
cent, on all liabilities to the public. Altogether a strong,
well-managed bank, and one that Australia may be proud
of. Out of about 150 banks enumerated as doing business
in Great Britain, only 17 can show a stronger reserve
fund. Of these, nine are English (mostly built up by an
amalgamation of several institutions), two are German,
one each Scotch,.French, Canadian, South African, Aus-
tralian, and Anglo-Chinese.


stocks Kept of -
RAND ROCK DRILLS & AIR COMPRESSORS
BY THE SOLE AGENTS—
If. GIITHRIDGE, LTD., 71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
And at 486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE ; WELLINGTON, N.Z. ;
214 HIGH STREET, FREMANTLE; KALCOORLIE.
' :
TRAMWAYS. TRAMWA.YS.
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Prop. Ltd,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
Representing ORENSTEIN & KOPPEL LTD., of LONDON and BERLIN,
EQuip Complete TRAMWAYS and supply Every Description of Tramway Material.
ID* - Locomotives from 10 to 250 h.p. “WH
STOCKS LN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE include Rails and Accessories, Steel Sleepers,
Turn tables, Switches, Side Tipping Trucks, Steel Wheels, &c. Technical advice gratuitously
rendered. Flying and Permanent Surveys arranged. Illustrated Catalogues and Photo-
graphic Albums showing Tramways constructed in different parts of the World, upon
application. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager.
Mr. A. Gilfillan, B.Sc., C.E. (Edin.), Mining
and Metallurgical Engineer, Stock Exchange Buildings,
Melbourne, is leaving for London about April next, for
the purpose of establishing a London office, and attending
to the flotation of approved mining and other proposi-
tions. Before leaving Mr. Gilfillan will visit the various
colonies for the purpose of inspecting any options which
may be offered. Correspondence invited from mine-
owners who have properties worth handling.*
• * * •
Stock Exchange, London, 17th July, 1901,
writes re the Colonial Mutual Life: “Notwithstanding
its comparative youth, it has achieved in the short time
of its existence a status and reputation that places it
amongst the leading life offices of the world.”* 1
« • * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-streefc, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
,* * » *
The Hannans Oroya Gold Mining Co., Kal-
goorlie, have lately placed an order with the Austral
Otis Company, South Melbourne, for a double drum first
motion winding engine. The cylinders are 18 inch
diameter by 36 inch stroke, and are fitted with balanced
piston valves. The drums are Bft. in diameter and fitted
with indicators. The engine is completely controlled
from the driver’s platform. In all respects is similar to
the engines working so satisfactorily at the Golden Horse-
shoe Mine, Boulder, Long Tunnel, Victoria, and the Cobar
Chesney Mine, N.S.W.*
» * • ♦
See for yourself. The Australian Medical
Gazette of January, 1891, compares Zetz Spa to the cele-
brated Vichy waters of France, and states that it is
valuable for gout, rheumatism, gravel, catarrh of the
bladder, diabetes, dyspepsia, splenic and hepatic dis-
orders.
• * » •
Vanning Tables. —The very newest and what
gives exceedingly fair promise of superseding all other
tables is the machine knovvn as the Wesley-Baird Vanning
Table. The table is of South Australian invention, and
has given excellent results on Broken Hill ores and ores
containing pyrites, carbonate of copper and tin. Like all
tables, the best, work is done on “ fines,” and more espe-
cially when the product is properly classified. The
Central Mining and Tramway Co., of 424 Little Collins-
street, Melbourne, and 40 Hunter-street, Sydney, are the
sole agents in the Eastern States. The table has a capa-
city up to 30 tons per day.*
* * * •
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia- Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “Option,”
Melbourne.*
* * * *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Bock Drills,
Air Compressors, etc., etc.*
* » * •
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
♦ * * *
Mr. Mephan Eerguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c.,of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, andall sorts of iron-work.*
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Arsenic, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Naptha, Benzine and Blasting? Charges.
Hy. Markwald
178 William-street,
Mklboctrnh ;
11 Pitt-st. , Sydney; 68 Currie-st., Adel.; tl Eagle-m
Brisb. ; and at Qhrietchurch, Dunedin, Wellington,
Auckland, NZ,
The Commercial Bank of Australia has at last
wisely done something to clear up the mystery of its
Assets Trust—a matter on which Tub Bulletin has been
insistent for several years ; and the revelation is very bad
indeed. When the present directorate took charge the
institution became divided into two parts—the Commer-
cial Bank of Australia and the Assets Trust, though, as
the Bank was responsible for all the Trust’s debts, the two
really remained the same institution. The Trust’s assets
consisted practically of all the dubious properties and bad
debts of the old bank, and its liabilities consisted of
between three and four millions of the old bank’s de-
posits. And, with an assurance that is simply amazing,
the directors refused for years to furnish definite infor-
mation about the Trust’s affairs. They published accounts
showing that the good half of the institution was making
respectable profits, and refused to state whether
or not there was a loss on the other and concealed
half of the concern (through the failure of the Trust’s
income to meet interest on the Trust’s deposits)
which absorbed a large proportion of these profits.
The shareholders never knew what the Trust’s profit
or loss_ was, or what was the profit or loss of the
whole institution—bank and Trust combined. If the
shareholders had known what income the Trust’s assets
yielded they would have been able to guess at the value
of those assets, and to form some idea as to how they
stood ; but they were denied all reasonable information
about £3,000,000 of their own property— and they
stood this treatment. This paper asked over and over
again what the Trust’s profit or loss amounted to, and
the directors only replied by stating at the half-yearly
meeting that they couldn’t undertake to value the assets
of the Trust, which was quite a different thing. Out of the
bank’s profits £60,000 a year has been transferred to
the Trust, but beyond that nothing was known. Now the
Board, while still furnishing very little information about
the Trust’s income and outgoings, has done just what it
said all along it couldn’t be expected to do. It has valued
the Trust’s assets. And the result appears to be a deficit
of nearly £2,200,000.
This is an appalling deficit, though as conceal-
ment would make it no better, the wisdom of facing the
situation is beyond all question. It has been decided to
write off £1,100,000 of the ordinary capital, which will
leave about £66,372 of it standing. The preference capital
of £2,117,230 still remains intact —on paper only. After
this writing off there will still be a deficit of about
£1,070,000 to be gradually met out of profits, unless it is
decided, later on, to wipe out the rest of the ordinary
capital and write down the preference capital. Of course
an increase in property values may arise, and greatly
reduce this deficit. But again it may not. The profits
for half-year just ended are £72,460 (a great improvement
on previous records) and after paying the 3 per cent,
preference dividend there should remain £40,702 towards
reducing the deficit—only the directors again present no
profit and loss account for the Trust, and it is impossible
to say how much, if any, of this £40,702 is required to
make up the half year’s interest on the Trust’s deposits,
and how much remains to reduce the deficit in the assets.
Therefore the shareholders are not so much better off than
usual for information as to the real earnings of their institu-
tion. Anyhow, it would be better to write off the balance of
the ordinary capital; write the preference shares down to
one-half and clear off the whole deficit; raise the pre-
ference dividend to 6 per cent, (if the profits, after pro-
viding for any deficit in the Trust’s earnings, are sufficient),
which would absorb just the same £31,758 half-yearly
that the present 3 per cent, dividend does ; and put the
balance each half-year to a reserve fund. The prospect
of dragging round the corpse of the old deficit for years
isn’t pleasant.
The ordinary, or original, shareholders have
now lost in two writings-down £2,300,000, as well as over
£1,130,000 of reserves, including “ inner reserves.” And
there is still a shortage of over £1,000,000. Total losses
in the matter of the breakdown of 1893 are about
£5,500,000.
Of course, there is nothing desperate about the
bank’s situation. From a depositor’s point of view it is
safe enough. About £1,100,000 of capital remains intact
over and above all deficits, and the profits of the bank —
that is, the half of the institution whose accounts are
published—are increasing handsomely. Figures since the
last re-arrangement, when interest on Assets Trust
deposits was reduced to 3 per cent., are as follows :
O Ppr flpnfi
, Dividend on Written Total
Fronts. p re f er ence off. Reserves.
Shares.
June, 1890 —■ £5,475
Dec., 1896 ..£41,636 £21,171 £20,000 5,940
June, 1897 .. 62,530 21,171 33,000 4,299
Dec., 1897 .. 53,222 21,171 30,000 6,350
June, 1898 .. 62,363 21,171 30,000 7,542
Dec., 1898 .. 62,801 21,171 30,000 9,172
June, 1899 .. 62,247 21,171 30,000 10,248
3 Per Cent.
Dividend on
Preference
Shares.
Dec., 1899 .. 65,351 £31,756 30,000 13,843
June, 1900 .. 58,265 31,756 30,000 10,352
Dec., 1900 .. 65,153 81,758 30,000 13,747
June, 1901 .. 64,929 31,758 30,000 16,918
Dec., 1901 .. 72,460 81,758 30,000 27,620
These reserves will, of course, be swamped when
the £2,200,000 or so of losses are dealt with. The earn-
ings are at the rate of £4 7s. lOd. per cent, per annum on
shareholders* funds as at the commencement of half-year,
or £6 11s. 9d. per cent, on said funds less the £1,100,000
proposed to be written off. What the profits may be
when the deficit (if any) in the earnings of the Trust is
deducted is the usual mystery. The business in general
seems to be in good condition, and the reserves of cash
and liquid securities amounting to £1,682,297 are very
solid, representing about 40 per cent, of all liabilities to
the public.
As regards the Assets Trust, the old policy of
secrecy should be wholly abandoned. Henceforth the
shareholders of the Commercial Bank of Australia should
know what their net profits are—not be told that their
profits are so much, less an unspecified deficiency. The
directors can’t but know exactly what the blessed Trust
earns, and what excuse they can have for not supplying
the information passes comprehension. Further, seeing
that the ordinary shares of the Commercial Bank, which,
it now appears, are quite worthless (for after writing
them down to 10s. a share there is still a deficit of
£1,000,000 or more), have been selling lately as high as
135., and have sold at much over £1 per share, the
buyers have a very reasonable grievance against those
directors who said they couldn’t be expected to value the
assets of the Trust—and then did it. It is absurd to
suppose that anybody would have bought these shares at
anything like the above price if the revenue and expen-
diture account of the Assets Trust had been published,
and it had been possible to deduce from the figures how
very bad that institution really was.
* * * *
During the December quarter of 1901 the pro-
portion of cash reserves to liabilities in the New South
Wales banks was lower than at any previous time since
September, 1893.
* » * •
British agriculture keeps dying out under the
influence of the great importing policy. In 1901 the area
under wheat, oats and barley was 191,217 acres less than
in 1900, and the diminution goes on every year.
The Australian Joint Stock Bank has not main-
tained the great and sudden increase in profits recorded
last half-year ; though the present figures are better than
those of any previous half-year since June, 1893. Starting
from the last re-construction the record is:
Visible Profits by
Profits Repurchase Less Nominal
of of Written Reserves
Banking Depreciated off
Business Deposits
June, 1897 £52,000
Dec., 1897 £1725 63,725
June, 1898 3746 67,471
Dec., 1898 266 67,737
June, 1899 1358 69,095
Dec., 1599 2912 £88,908 150,915
June, 1900 2057 20,565 173,537
Dec., 1900 2547 19,964 196,048
June, 1901 13,465 21,947 £ll,OOO 220,460
Dec., 1901 3584 12,663 236,707
The banking profits represent 10s. 4d. per cent, per
annum on the shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves)
as at the beginning of the half-year.,.. These figures
suggest great and wonderful possibilities supposing the
A.J.S. Bank followed the example just set by the Com-
mercial of Australia, and made an estimate of its total
losses to date. Would the called and callable capital and
the existing reserves suffice to cover them ? _ Paid-up
capital and all reserves are £1,404,749, and unpaid capital
is about £398,000, but a lot of this might prove uncollect-
able. By far the largest source of income now lies in the
repurchase of the sadly depreciated B deposits. When
these are used up there should be great possibilities in
the repurchase of the inscribed deposits—now selling at
about 10s. in the £ ; and even in the purchase of the A
deposits—now worth about 13s. 3d. in the £ —if the
funds to purchase them with are available. If the
A.J.S. Bank could find £1,000,000, which seems an im-
possible idea, and devote the money to the wholesale
repurchase of its depreciated deposits, it should make a
very large profit—not less than £400,000
The process of extinguishing the reconstructed
deposits makes a little progress, mostly by reason of the
repurchase system above described. These are the
figures since the bank began to show its reconstructed
deposits separately:
Due to Recon- Paid off
structed during
Depositors.' ’ ' Half-year.
December, 1899 .. £5,784,223 ..
June, 1900 .. .. 5,457,327 .. £326,896
December, 1900 .. 6,390,005 .. 67,322
June, 1901 .. .. 5,318,901 .. 71,104
December, 1901 .. 5,269,030 .. 49,871
A considerable sum, however (about £300,000), has
been cleared off since the half-year closed.
The reserve of cash and liquid securities has
increased considerably during the half-year, and now
amounts to £1,262,418 (though the repayment of deposits
since the half-year closed has probably brought this down
below £1,000,000). Of this £210,217 represent British
Government stocks. Apparently the A.J.S. holds no
Australian State securities whatsoever—peahaps, in view
of the borrowing record Australia is putting up and the
probable consequences, it looks for something safer. The
new deposits, which declined continuously from Dec.,
1899, to June, 1901, show an increase of about £68;000
and stand at £1,144,657. The worst feature is the
drop in the profits of the banking business. The
A.J.S. is a big concern, whose assets total over
£8,100,000, and it does little more than pay expenses,
and meet the very much reduced interest on its
deposits. Presumably so long as it can pay its way
and accumulate reserves by the repurchase of deposits
there is no urgent need for an active cleaning up, and so
long as the public fully understands that the balance-sheet
to a great extent only represents nominal values, there
isn’t much harm done. But the old assets—those left
over from the ante-suspension days—which only represent
book values, should most distinctly not be lumped in
with the new ones acquired since the boom—those which
are supposed to represent real values. The balance-sheet,
as at present constructed, gives no information as to the
progress that is being made at realising these old assets.
It doesn’t show whether, out of £6,473,000, the dubious
assets represent £5,473,000 and the presumably reliable
ones £1,000,000, or whether the dubious assets represent
£3,000,000 and the good ones £3,473,000. And this is
about the most essential item in the whole problem.
Said dubious assets consist largely of Western squattages,
and the management has hopes that the easier conditions
offered under the Western Lands Act may do something
for it.
• • * •
The City Bank of Sydney presents another of
its same and monotonous series of balance-sheets :
Total
Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
Dec., 1894 .. £10,004 5 per cent. = £lO,OOO £108,275
June, 1895 .. 10,030 6 „ ~ 10,000 108,305
Dec., 1895 .. 10,020 6 ~ „ 10,000 108,325
June, 1896 .. 8,108 4 „ „ 8,000 108,433
Dec., 1896 .. 8,070 4 „ „ 8,000 108,503
June, 1897 .. 8,049 4 „ „ 8,000 108.552
Dec., 1897 .. 8,395 4 „ „ 8,000 108,947
June, 1898 .. 8,273 4 „ ~ 8,000 109,220
Dec., 1898 .. 8,053 4 „ „ 8,000 109,273
June, 1899 .. 8,070 4 „ „ 8,000 109,343
Dec., 1899 .. 8,212 4 „ „ 8,000 109,555
June, 1900 .. 8,041 4 „ „ 8,000 109,596
Dec., 1900 .. 8,223 4 „ „ 8,000 109,819
June, 1901 .. 8,105 4 „ ~ 8,000 109,924
Dec., 1901 .. 8,157 4 „ „ 8,000 110,081
The profits represent £3 3s. lid. per cent, per annum on
the shareholders’ funds, which is a rather humble rate and
distinctly below the average. The reserves consist of re-
serve fund, £100,244, and undivided profit, £9837; and
present writer, being weary of that odd £244, desires to
suggest that £756 be transferred from profit and
loss to make it an even £lOl,OOO. Deposits have
made a rather unusual increase of about £60,000
during the half-year, and now stand at £1,147,383.
The reserve of cash and liquid securities is £378,648,
representing 31 per cent, on all liabilities to the
public. The City Bank appears to be a fortunate institu-
tion, whose tables and chairs never wear out—at all
events, there is no sign of anything having been written
off premises and furniture during the last two years, and
during the last six years the only visible reduction made,
assumably for wear and tear, is £23. Every half-year the
City Bank just earns its 4 per cent, dividend, with an
almost imperceptible margin. Still, its shares (£8 paid
up) have lately sold at £4 17s. 6d., apd though this is a
serious discount, especially for an institution which didn’t
go down in the ’93 disaster, the price is much better than
that of a year or two ago.
» * • *
The Ballarat Banking Co. (Ballarat, Victoria)
shows another eminently satisfactory balance-sheet:
Profits. Dividends. Written Re-
off. serves.
Dec., 1895 ..£3,463 5J p.c. = £2,337 £53,410
June, 1896 .. 3,249 5 \ ~ ~ 2,337 54,322
Dec., 1896 .. 2,936 5| „ „ 2,337 54,921
June, 1897 .. 2,880 5§ ~ ~ 2,337 55,464
Dec., 1897 .. 2,636 51 „ ~ 2,337 55,763
June, 1898 .. 2,784 51 ~ ~ 2,337 56,210
Dec., 1898 .. 2,906 51 „ „ 2,337 56,779
June, 1899 .. 3,022 51 ~ ~ 2,337 57, 64
Dec., 1899 .. 2,990 5J ~ ~ 2,337 58,117
June, 1900 .. 3,153 5§ „ ~ 2,337 58,933.
Dec., 1900 .. 3,334 6 „ „ 2,550 59,717
June,. 1901 .. 3,542 6 „ „ 2,550 £225 60,484
Dec., 1901 .. 3,629 6 „ „ 2,550 300 61,263
The earnings represent £4 19s. 9d. per cent, on the share-
holders’ funds as at commencement of half-year. The
Ballarat Banking Co. has £85,000 of paid-up capital, so
its reserve of £61,263 is very large for the size of the insti-
tution. Deposits are £222,562, a decline of a little over
£3OOO as compared with six months ago, though a con-
siderable increase on the figures for 1899. The reserves of
cash and State securities are £76,797, equal to nearly 35
per cent, on all liabilities to the public. The only im-
provement which it seems possible to suggest at present
is that the whole reserve-fund, instead of only one-third
of it, should be separately invested in State securities.
• * * *
The Ballarat Trustees, Executors, and Agency
Co., Limited, of Ballarat, Victoria :
t, Deficit
Profits, (Goodwill not
Less Dividends. reckoned
Depreciation. an assefc) .
Dec., 1895 .. £787 6 per cent. = £375 £3,199
June, 1896 .. 952 6 „ „ 375 2,622
Dec., 1896 .. 881 6 „ „ 375 2,116
June, 1897 .. 835 6 „ „ 375 1,656
Dec., 1897 .. 708 7 „ „ 625 1,473
June, 1898 .. 746 6 „ „ 375 1,102
Dec., 1898 .. 949 7 „ „ 625 678
June, 1899 .. 1,071 7 „ „ 525 132
Reserves.
Dec., 1899 .. 1,042 7 „ „ 625 385
June, 1900 .. 941 8 „ „ 600 726
Dec., 1900 .. 1,090 8 „ „ 600 1,216
June, 1901 .. 1,113 8 „ ~ 600 1,729
Dec., 1901 .. 1,252 10 „ „ 760 2,231
The Ballarat Trustees Co. is making excellent progress ; its
dividend represents the highest rate paid among the
Trustee companies of the Commonwealth, and there is
still £502 over with which to strengthen the reserves. If
the profits are maintained, or if they show a further
increase, and the co. is content with its 10 per cent, divi-
dend (which is surely high enough for even a tolerably
rapacious Trustee co.) and if the reserves are carefully
invested, there is no reason why the Ballarat c . should
not be one of the leading institutions of its kind. It cer-
tainly begins well. One matter, however, should be cor-
rected ; its accounts do not show separately the earnings
of the trustee business and the receipts from investments.
The latter, as tending to explain how the investments are
turning out, should always be a separate item. The in-
vestments of the Ballarat Trustees Co., however, are
mostly State and municipal securities, so this matter is of
rather less importance in its case than in some others.
* * * *
The English trusts and combines don’t seem to
be as well managed as the Yankee ones. Out of 45
English combinations, with a capital of £161,395,200, only
15 paid a dividend on ordinary shares in 1899, and only 19
in 1900.
• » • •
The N. S. W. Monte de Piete Deposit and In-
vestment Co. (Sydney), shows a very material improve-
ment :
Written
Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserve.
June, 1896 £4,799 10 per cent. =£3,639 £337 £21,759
Dec., 1896 4,284 10 „ 3,669 708 21,666
June, 1897 4,326 10 „ 3,672 1,226 21,094
Dec., 1897 4,397 10 „ 3,679 1,060 20,752
June, 1898 4,189 10 „ 3,687 848 20,406
Dec., 1898 3,589 10 „ 3,689 2,741 17,565
June, 1899 2,300 7£ „ 2,773 1,182 15,910
Dec., 1899 2,801 7| ~ 2,778 7,335 8,598
June, 1900 3,031 7% „ 2,750 443 8,406
Dec., 1900 3,003 7J „ 2,781 189 8,439
June, 1901 2,972 7* „ 2,784 8,627
Dec., 1901 5,010 8 „ 2,972 10,665
It is a number of years since the Monte de Pi6t6 put
up so remarkably good a record.
* * * *
“ Sessil ”: The Scottish Consul M. Co. has a
promising tin show at Watson’s Creek, 15 miles from
Bendeemeer, New England. The trouble here has always
been that a few feet of sinking on the long flat invariably
brought a rush of water. Present manager has con-
structed a tail-race of 700yds., including a tunnel of
250 ft. Two drives of 200 ft. and 100 ft. have been put in,
with crosscuts to various water-filled shafts. Thirty
prosp.ecting bores, of from 16ft. to 22ft., have been put
down, and very rich wash struck in each.
« • * *
“Sessil”: Mascotte (late Commonwealth), on
the main road from Glen Innes to Emmaville, seems to
have come to the end of its tether. The main shaft is
down 66ft.; bottom of well-hole at 53ft. on unpayable
wash. Two shafts have been sunk at 53ft., and 18ft. to
south of old workings. The first bottomed on a few
inches of fairly good wash, which has since all but petered
out.
• • * •
Sessil: Re the old Rockvale Ruby silver-mine
(New England, N.S.W.): Baker and Wade, who sold to
N.Z. Mines Trust Co. for £30,000, now have the claim
again as prospectors with right of tribute. Mine has
six months’ extension—of which four have gone. Same
co’s. Phoenix mine, hard by, is also being prospected
again under rather cheerless circumstances.
° « * * •
Sessil: Glowing reports are to hand from
McDowell and Finch’s tin show at Silent Grove, to the
north-east of Emmaville, towards Tenterfield. Here
granite and altered slate meet, and here, in 1884, Prof.
David forecast a discovery of bismuth and tin. Present
holders got 21bs. and 41bs. from successive dishes. De-
posit said to be of great richness.
**» * *
There are now, roughly, 4300 men employed on
the Broken Hill mines. This time last year there were
7260.
• * * *
In view of the proposal that a bonus should be
given by the Commonwealth for the manufacture of
iron in Australia, Broken Hill men suggest a bonus also
for zinc. It looks as though the Sulphide Corporation
would be first to claim it; it has a small spelter-distillery
almost ready at Cockle Creek, near Newcastle.
• • * •
The course of the B.H. Proprietary during
some recent half-years :
Half-year ended. Profit (gross). Ore handled.
May, 1898 .. £177,567 .. .. 204,731 tons
Nov., 1898 .. 152,876 .. .. 204,067 „
Mav, 1899 .. 142,180 .. .. 202,693 „
Nov., 1899 .. 144,492 .'. .. 206,193 „
May, 1900 .. 129,576 ~ .. 232,487 „
Nov., 1900 .. 167,795 .. .. 293,451 „
May, 1901 .. 102,505 .. .. 296,389 „
Nov., 1901 .. 56,293 .. .. 305,628 „
This isn’t exactly the sort of table that will make the
shareholder call in at the next pub. and shout for the
crowd. From this gross profit the co. takes £12,975 for
depreciation, leaving £43,3lB—just under the amount of
the one dividend paid. And even this was done only by
increasing the output of ore so much that about 40,000
tons of stuff had to be sold unsmelted, the furnace
capacity having been outrun, and by making economies
which it is claimed reduced costs by £34,000. Further,
in this half-year lead sold up to £l6 12s. 6d., though the
average was probably only £ll 10s. ; lately it has been
wobbling between £lO and £lO 10s. And as a fall of £1 a
ton of lead means £30,000 off the co.’s profits—well,
things can’t be looking too well now even for the big co.
It is not very surprising, therefore, that instead of going
to its bank' balances for money to pay for its new works
it has been going to its reserves ; so, instead of having
its nest-egg of £125,000 in gilt-edged securities, £40,000
is now in the Iron Knob tramway and jetty—the part of
the works devoted to the supply of flux to the smelters.
* * * •
Overflow, N.S.W.: Much was said of the start-
ing of the smelter ; much more when it was running ; but
absolute silence reigned when it was closed down. Wired
from Oondobolin :—“The Overflow mine is not to be
closed down. It has been decided to sink the shaft in
the Kurrajong section to 400 feet, to determine the
nature and quality of the ore in that portion of the
property. This is a necessary work, and should
prove large bodies of high-grade ores of perhaps a
less refractory nature.” When a smelter, or battery,
shuts up, it is generally on account of the refrac-
tory character of the ore. It was really a case of
mining mannikins monkeying with something they didn’t
understand. Altogether upwards of £lOO,OOO must have
been lost on this mine, the great bulk of it simply chucked
away. The sadly mismanaged Overflow has tried crush-
ing and cyaniding, arid smelting with two or three dif-
ferent classes of furnaces, and ’tis said that one man tried
to solve the problem of making the mine pay with a
cradle. The show, one of the best undeveloped mines
now working, has undergone several reconstructions,
and, during its last brief periods on deck, one Sydney
broking firm predicted great things for it every month.
Now that it is shut down because of another smelting-
fizzle, and much money has again been lost, the firm’s
monthly circular is asjsilent on the point as if nothing
had happened.
• • • *
Blayney (N.S.W.): Proposed to reconstruct
this co. by issuing 200,000 6s. shares (all contributing),
and calling up enough money to clear debentures and
other liabilities, amounting altogether to some £15,000.
If the scheme fails, the mine, on which some £60,000 has
been spent in equipment and development, will pass to
the debenture-holders for about one-fifth of that sum,
and at a time when the show looks better in the bottom
than at any other period of its existence.
» * * •
Lloyd Copper Co. (Burraga mine, N.S.W.):
Wired from Lithgow that the copper slump is not likely
to affect this property unless the price falls much lower
still ; that the ore is richer than in any other N.S.W.
copper mine (this is correct); that it can be produced
much more cheaply (which isn’t true); that the treat-
ment plant is now so extensive that a very much larger
quantity of ore can be put through ; and that there is no
anxiety as to output of mine, as it never looked so well
since it was first discovered, some 30 years ago. The
new plant has cost £32,000, and the new concrete dam
and pipe line another £17,000. The main shaft is now
down 1750 ft. on the underlay, which represents something
less than half that vertical depth. The lode is said to
average sft., and is worked 700 ft. long. About 21,000
tons of ore were mined last year, and there is now
several years’ ore in sight, and not less than 60,000 tons of
wood have been stacked. And this is the mine that was
“ turned down ” by some very smart people for one-third
the amount at which it was subsequently sold. It would
be easy for the writer to give a list of mining men and
others who put up and forfeited deposits for options on
this mine at from £30,000 to £40,000 purchase price. One
well-known metallurgist, and alleged mining expert, en-
deavoured to get his deposit back from Lewis Lloyd, the
owner, on the ground of misrepresentation, and, on a
legal point, succeeded in getting half of it returned. Yet
the company he represented wasted, in N.S.W. wild cats,
many times the amount of money wanted for the Burraga
mine. All the time Lloyd was asking £30,000 and £40,000
for the mine nearly half the purchase money could have
been got, at any time, from copper in furnace bottoms,
made at Lithgow, on the mine and on the road to the
refining furnaces. Besides this, the old dump contained
more copper than would pay for the whole show over and
over, and one of the objects of the new concentrating plant
now running is to get it out. The former owner of the
mine for many years landed copper in Sydney for £35 per
ton. The ore was then of somewhat higher grade, and it
is doubtful whether the new co. with five or six times the
old production will be able to do this, for while it is deal-
ing with greater quantities it has to put up with extrava-
gant London management, and has already suffered from
some big mistakes. ** •
• * * •
The copper crisis : Public meetings have been
held at Cobar and at Lithgow, urging the reduction of
railway freights ori matte from the mines, and on coke and
coal to them. A5O per cent, reduction is asked for — i.e.,
from one halfpenny per ton per mile to one farthing,
current rates to be reverted to when copper reaches £6O
per ton again. A deputation is to wait on the Railway
Commissioners on the subject. The Cobar mine pays for
the bulk of the freight carried on the Cobar railway, and
if it shuts down there will be little or no use for the
railway. The railway was running long before the mine
was re-opened, and up to then it was about the worst-
paying branch line in the State; since then
it has become the best. It is, therefore, easy
to see what will happen if this concession is not granted,
for, unless copper improves in price, the mine is likely
to be shut down. The Commissioners might object on the
ground that the relief asked for would have to be applied
all round. But there is no other district affected to any-
thing like the same extent as Cobar, and there is no
reason why the concession should not be given all round
where copper mines are concerned, on the same principle
which applied to the carriage of starving sheep at greatly
reduced rates in the drought-affected districts.
(Continued on page SO.)


PA VIP JONES''COMPANY
Men’s Calf Boots, 265. 6d
BOOT & SHOE
IMPORTERS
A GOOD BOOT
at a
" •/ y.i <MV VTi
MODERATE PRICE
&
SYDNEY
THE MEW
MILITARY
FIELD GLASS.
Very Powerful. As used In
Officers of the British Army
in South Africa. Quickly
Focussed. Magnifying 5 times.
In Solid leather Sling Case.
65/-, Aluminium 85/-.
WOOD, “The Optician,”
Only Address in N.S. YV. —
299 GEORGE=ST. (op . Hunter-st.), SYDNEY
. . AND . .
Equitable Buildings, Elizabeth-St., Melbourne.
EVA BRAHAM,
LADIES’ HAIRDRESSER,
From H. P. Truefitt, 114 Old Bond Street, London,
Pupil of Dr. Gurney, M.D., L.R.C.P., L.R.C.S., Harley
Street, Cavendish Sq., London, W.
HAIR «Sc skin treated.
CONSULTATION GRATIS.
Pamphlet on the Art of Preserving the Complexion,
Hair, Nails and Feet, POST FREE.
HENNA TINCTURE
for STAINING GREY HAIR.
, , „ ' Harmless and Effectual. In thin e
shades—Black, Brown, and Light Brown. 3s. per cas .
Hair Stained from 21s.
LADIES’ ORNAMENTAL HAIR made up in all Newest
Styles. Prices Moderate.
Removal of Superfluous Hair and Chiropody by an Expert.
EVA BRAHAM,
15 First Floor, Equitable Buildings,
George Street, Sydney, NEAR G.P.O.
Home Cigarettes.
the latest bulletin.
They are the Sweetest, the Nicest, the
mest Comrahhwealthiest Cigarette. ’
All Tobacconists.
Society
LEROY
LIQUEUR
BRANDY
Last week’s dust storm was felt by ships
miles away from the N.S.W. coast, and several
vessels arrived at Port Jackson Heads with inches
of dust on their decks, and their passengers look-
ing as though they had just bobbed up from the
neighborhood of Muddy Creek.
• * * •
Recently in an Australian port a bather
sank, and when a bystander stripped to save
him, some adjacent donkey interfered and
represented that it was illegal in such cases to
attempt anything without the permission of the
ponce. Donkey No. 2 took the advice, and both
donkeys ran for the necessary officer. They had
to run a long way, and when they had found him
and all three had run back again about an hour
had elapsed, and the bather was naturally quite
dead. This is a weird variant of the fool who
thinks it illegal to cut down a hanging suicide
until he has fetched the police from a distance
of two miles or so.
A recent Melbourne tragedy was apparently
an instance of a weak, shiftless individual rising to
the occasion, as it were, and playing the man-
after his fashion. He was seen by the local con-
stable about an hour before the trouble, “ white
with passion.” The next item in the programme
was the appearance of the wife at a neighbor’s,
flying for protection. “He has threatened to do
for me, and I know he will, ” said she, and nothing
could pacify her. Her fears were well-founded, for
the husband duly appeared, forced his way in
against all opposition (he was 6ft. 4in. high and
18 stone wide), searched the house .-dless of
everyone—overturning all that stood in his way—
and finally discovered his wife in the bedroom.
He left her with two bullet-wounds and a badly-
fractured skull, and walked to the door to meet
the constable. Covering the constable with the
revolver, and warning him that any attempt to
“rush” would result in his instant death, the
man slowly and steadily backed the 40 yards to
his own house, again warned the policeman not to
enter till he was told, went inside to where an
open letter was lying on a table, struck a light
and burnt the document, afterwards stamping the
ashes under foot, then came out and went quietlv
to the lock-up. Up to the latest this peculiar
husband (he seems to have been a permanent
unemployed,” and to have lived on his wife’s
earnings) maintains strict silence about the letter
—the probable cause of the unpleasantness—and
m the little the wife has been able to say she has
also ignored it. Yet that letter should be in-
teresting.
* * * *
England is all a-crawl just now with people
who are trying to prove their hereditary right to
do something or other, no matter what, at the
Coronation, and a special court has actually been
constituted to decide on their claims. The first
sitting took on 57 persons whose ancestors
had washed a dish, or fed the dog on the
scraps at previous Coronation banquets, and
who, therefore, want to do the same next June.
Most of them were represented by counsel !
When they had had their say, the Lord Chancellor
explained that there is not going to be any coro-
nation banquet.
* * ■ *
Robbery of £3OO worth of opal from the
back of the White Cliffs mail coach recalls
that, once upon a time, before the railway
went to Mudgee, the hangman, paying a pro-
fessional visit to that town, had his rope
stolen. The long, greasy, gruesome thing was
coiled away in the luggage-rack at the rear of the
coach, and theft was an easy matter. The back of a
coach is not a safe spot for valuables, or for a man-
slayer’s rope. It was a brilliant idea, by the way,
to have the valuables at the rear of the coach and
the policeman on the box, with the lumbering
vehicle and, presumably, the usual heap of luggage
in between. Even supposing a policeman could
be expected to keep awake in such a country, a
coach is slow and noisy, and a silent, long-legged,
swift-footed person who could run in the dust-
cloud behind without sneezing could take almost
anything from the back-yard of the vehicle unob-
served.
PERHAPS!
HIS GRANDF'ER : “ Strange! Never
knew light wine to go to my head
before!”
TOMMY: “After all the turkey and all
the plum pudding, perhaps there was
no room anywhere else, Gran'pa!"
A fine subject for a threnody is the death
of English man-choker, William Billington.
Billington firmly believed that he hanged
“ Jack the Ripper” several years ago, in the
person of Dr. Neill Cream, a poisoner. At
the very last moment the man murmured, “ I
want to say that lam Jack ” Billington’s
hand had already started to draw the lever, and
he could not stop. But he had no doubt as to what
the end of the sentence would have been. Also, it
had always been imagined that John the Disem-
boweller (Jean I'dventreur)— as the Parisian jour-
nalists, with delicate humor, styled him—must,
from thefiendish knowledge of anatomy he showed,
be a medical man, if not a butcher. It fell to
Billington’s lot to execute at Manchesterja fellow
townsman, Patrick McKenna, for many years one
of his personal friends. A fortnight after he fell
sick and died. Cold-blooded officialism explains
that death was due to “a cold contracted on the
scaffold,” but we prefer to weave a little romance
around the incident, and to hold that William
Billington died of a Broken Heart—the Hang-
man’s Broken Heart. Victorian choker, Upjohn,
actually did die of shame, complicated by drink,
because he was asked to hang a woman. Billing-
ton will be succeeded in the gloomy billet by his
son ; the hangmanship in England is now, like the
Crown, hereditary.
Fortune - telling has received a great
knock-back in Adelaide. A few months ago, a
prominent wizard, a man of magnificent dress
and address, was sent to gaol for 10 years for
well, various things. Now one of the most popular
palmists in tho city stands accused of various
things, and there is more trouble. At the
inquest, Madam stated that fortune-telling,
in many cases, is only a blind for the
practice of abortion. There is gnashing of
teeth, regardless of expense, and many really
good sets have been gnashed to pieces over this
malignant observation. Half the fashionable
women in Adelaide have told their friends, at one
time or another, about how they consulted some
high-toned seer, and all that she foretold came
exactly true. And now they are making things
worse by rushing round among their friends
with the remains of the aforesaid teeth in their
mouths, and assuring them that &c., &c.
In the earliest days of the contingentinj
disease much good gratis provender was sent inti
the camps where the men were getting ready to
embark for the tented veldt. That is all over now.
Australia may, or may not, be as Jingo as ever,
but its enthusiasm nowadays hardly materialises
in so much as a flapjack. Deep and bitter and
rumblesome are the complaints from Langwarrin
camp, where the Victorians are training to go
forth and smite the sudden Boer on his kopje.
Too much cold saveloy and bread for breakfast,
and too much cold mutton and bread at other
meals, and too much weak tea out of a large
bucket, and too little of anything else is the sub-
ject of complaint. Public admiration seldom or
never pans out for even an ox tongue or a sheep’s
trotter, and ’Enniker ’Eaton has fled back to
England without leaving so much as a pot of jam
behind him.
* * * *
Nemesis ! Also the biter bit ! Mumford,
master of T, 0. Kerry’s yacht, Ariadne, was the
only one convicted out of the three persons ar-
raigned for conspiracy to cast the vessel away (for
tbs insurance-money). Mumford’s “ oonfession,”
of his own guilt, of course, did not legally affect
owner Kerry, in any way, and when it was made
more than clear that the alleged agreement be-
tween Kerry and Mumford—in which the former
was represented as undertaking to give Mumford
£4OO on condition that he made a clean loss of the
yacht—was a “fake,” to which incriminating
words had been added by clumsy forgery, the gal-
lant mariner found himself in the soup, alone.
The adventurous pocket-Hercules, Kerry, is widely
known in Australasia and is nowhere regarded as
a born fool, and it says little for police acumen
that he should have been prosecuted on the
strength of a document which no non-lunatic
would have signed even when drunk, and which
shouldn’t have deceived even the very worst kind
of idiot.
* * * *
Sydney morning papers are not making
any great scare about the outbreak of the plague
this time. All mention of three metropolitan
cases—one in Elizabeth-street—has been carefully
suppressed, and the public kept in the dark as to
the actual centres of the outbreak. As a
natural consequence, alarmist rumors, in-
finitely more terrifying than the truth,
have been circulated. The facts are that there
are two centres of infection—one an unspeakably
filthy quarter of the Paddington municipality, the
other m the city proper. So far, there are no in-
dications of a further spread. As usual, there has
been an arrogant wail, from the suburban muni-
cipality affected, against the Government for
neglecting to kill its bubonic rats. The sole
business of the State Government, according
to the suburban municipal mind, is to keep
its eye on the rats of the County of Cumber-
land, whilst the various councils collect rates,
potter with footpaths, and cultivate a Parlia-
mentary sort of violent debate. That the first
duty of a municipality is to keep itself clean is a
fact which never penetrates to the typical aider-
man. . He has grown accustomed to the plan of
allowing an area to become so noxious as to be a
public nuisance, and then having it seized and
compulsorily washed by the central government.
* * * •
The cable announces that many Boer
prisoners in Cape Colony employed their leisure
going through the Cape University course, and
several of these were successful at the recent
examinations. Of course the ignorant Boers
needed the learning, like the man who was con-
sidered a dirty ruffian because he washed every
day—it being held that only a very dirty man
could require to wash so often.
“HUNS.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Will they hang it ? ” cried the wan,
Paint-bespattered artist-man,
When he’d sent his sweet confection of good paint to
Turkestan
To the most noble Art Society of New South Turkestan.
In the morning, creeping slow,
Oame a band upon tip-toe,
And with rope and rage and rafter did they hang that
artist-man
According to the orders of the Shah of Turkestan 1
Prithee, do not make a show
Of crape and weeds of woe—
Twas a handy little custom that they had in Turkestan ;
O ! they simply lynched such painters, and had peace in
Turkestan !
’Twas a safe and noble plan—
It “ repressed ” the dauber-man ;
A id there’s a dearth of pink “ Impressions ” now in New
South Turkestan,
A id the pictures don’t scream at you in the land of
Turkestan 1
GRANT HERVEY.
A FAIR TRAP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Pray, why that puckered brow petite,
That anxious gaze and hand-clasped knee f ’*
I ask Lil, lying at my feet,
Beside the margin of the sea.
“ Still silent ? Sure, some heavy task
Lies on your conscience; let me be
I'INNED-DOG LAND, 12/7/’Ol.
Your soul’s confessor; so—-I ask
To solve gowr sad perplexity .”
*' Well — since you ask—this sum wile run
Across my brain and puzzle me :
If ' a -r- c’ make only one,
And I am * a,’ then who is c i ’ ”
YARRAN.
FLOWER DREAMS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I sometimes wonder when I see the
rose
Rest on Her bosom, where my head
has lain,
Whether, when She is dust, that
rose’s seed
Will find its nursery there, and bloom
again.
I sometimes wonder if the jessamine,
Which added fragrance to her fragrant
hair,
Will with it later make a common
cause
And bloom again to make another
fair.
But most I wonder if the flower of
love,
Which lay upon the soul I could not
see,
Will find its fellows in Elysian fields
And bloom again to bless and wel-
come me.
Ah, yes, methinks the God who loves
the rose
And loves the jessamine in my lady’s
hair,
Will love the love that decorates her
soul
And will not fail to make my Heaven
more fair !
N.S.W.
MAGGIE SULLIVAN.


J.D.K.Z. GIN.
—- —♦ ? . \
Only a little higher in price than other gin
but absolutely the best in the world. One size
only—largest size, each bottle contains 1 quart
and l-15th. Full strength, 16/5 u.p. It is manu-
factured by Messrs. Jno de Kuyper and Zoon
Rotterdam. It is the best known and most,
largely used in every country. Those who are
careful about the quality of the stimulant they
take' should ask for J.D.K.Z., and they will get
the sbest value for their money. Agents for
N.SfW.: LUCAS LOCK & CO., Macquarie
lace, Sydney.
1
TheWhiskyof The Wise
gf
259 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers'
Gazette, and Sailing List with map.
THOS. COOK & SON,
4 Hunter-st., Sydney.
SILVER STAR STARCH
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
Kuppers Elberfeld
9
Australia's
Leading tonic
Beverage.
“Melb.”: The Sydney-imported omni-
buses, the on the Carlton line, do a
rattling business. The vehicular history of Mel-
bourne is peculiar. Forty years ago, there were
many ’buses, such as the rival lines of Ford and
Fenton, to Collingwood, but ultimately every ’bus
was run off by the two-wheel cabs, succeeded by
the four-wheel wagonettes. In 1869, the Mel-
bourne Omnibus Company made its final splash,
with 12 ’buses on the Richmond line. These
vehicles were imported from Stephenson and Co.,
New York. This concern developed into the
Tramway Co., and now the co.’s want of up-to-
dateness results in the old ’bus of the sixties
turning up again like a twopenny ghost on four
wheels. *
• * » •
The demolition of the old Benevolent
Asylum to make way for the new Sydney railway-
station was responsible for the sale of a large
quantity of “ building material,” the other day,
and the microbe-sodden fragments of the institu-
tion brought very fair prices indeed. The Bene-
volent Asylum has for years contained a maternity
hospital, and its walls were so saturated with
disease germs that only about 1 per cent, of the
infants born there survived more than 10 or 12
weeks. Now these disease-laden bricks and
timbers have been sold for what they would* fetch,
and will spread round the suburbs to radiate
death in workmen’s cottages and gentlemen’s
villas. N. S.W. Board of Health costs this coun-
try a good deal per annum, and yet it is possible,
without fear of punishment, to put up for public
auction the largest collection of bacilli to be
found in the city.
THE WEAPON HE USED.
THE HEBE : “ Ah, by the wav, Mr. Biff, what has become of that friend of yours who
used to tell all those amusing stories?" MR. BIEF : “He committed suicide .”
HERE: “Great Heavens! How — revolver?" BIFF: " No wedding!"
An old Bendigo identity, Cohn, J.P.,
went out of his way to ask King Edward’s per-
mission to wear a certain Danish, medal which tie
got for his small and futile share in the Schleswig-
Holstein war of 1848. Allowing for the fact that
the outbreak of Australian kharkism had fired
Cohn’s aged spirit with a new enthusiasm for the
bauble of long ago, his formal application to E.R.
was a pitiable piece of business, anyhow. The
medal in question is not a foreign decoration,
Cohn being a Dane by birth. And he didn’t wait
for somebody in London to tell him he could wear
it with King Ned’s gracious approval. Some
months ago Cohn pinned that blessed relic on his
frock-coat, and sat for his portrait to a Melbourne
artist (P. Hansen), and the picture of Cohn and
his medal was duly hung in the art gallery at
Bendigo Exhibition. Cohn looks a rather incon-
sistent Dane under these circumstances. His
ancestors, in the days of Gorm the Old, when the
Dane fought with something harder than a keg of
exported butter, were built on different lines.
* * • *
The ship Port Patrick is likely to cause
some trouble to the Vic. Admiralty Court, and
put some obese fees into the pockets of the
lawyers. Messrs. J. Brown, of Newcastle, claim
£12'600 salvage ; another tug firm also puts in a
claim, the pilot service looks for a slice, and the
sailors claim full wages.
The vending of opium and opium charcoal
must be a profitable business. Day after day W.
Queensland Chinese are fined £lO and £2O for
supplying aboriginals, and yet the traffic goes on
merrily. There are two ways (among natives) of
using opium charcoal. One is to mix it with tea
and drink it; another to make a paste with water
and smoke it. Either way it forms a vile and
deleterious abomination.
* * * *
A bright young housebreaker, known
locally as the Musical Burglar, made a break
from Ballarat lock-up the other day, and was still
at large at time of writing. He seems to have
walked up the wall, crawled along the ceiling like
a fly, butted his way through the skylight, and
trotted over a few roofs to freedom beyond. This
incident recalls the fact, that for years pri-
soners awaiting trial at-Ballarat were supposed to
be shut in, but weren’t, a certain unused door
which was believed to be locked being open,
though a trifle stiff through the rust on its hinges.
The skylight through which the Musical Burglar
escaped had no bars, and the prisoner had nob
even been requested as a gentleman to take no
mean advantage of the oversight.
„ * * •
A rumor, started at Melbourne Stock Ex-
change, on a reoent Monday, swelled through the
city, and it was believed the. Boers had caved in.
The Jingo brokers started to kick the roof off, and
then, hearing the truth, saddened and kicked
themselves. So much beer was drunk during the
survival of the rumor that it is now believed the
brewers were at the bottom of it. Anyhow, two
or three of the breweries keep a surplus stock on
hand, anticipating a great “Maffick” when Botha
and De Wet are taken.
• • * •
A truly remarkable story was that of
“Captain Henry Lyons, of the British Secret
Service,” as told to P.M. Pan ton in Melbourne
recently. Lyons was charged with imposing, per
confidence-trick, on a globe-trotter. He claimed
that he was a British Government Secret Service
agent on six months’ leave from S’Africa, and re-
lated a beautiful mosaiac in which Kitchener was
always rebuking somebody for being rude to hmi £
and Salisbury was getting him out of the hands of
Portugese gaolers with an ultimatum. When he
got to Melbourne, he said, he interviewed McKin-
non and Cunningham of the Argus, and they
agreed to give him £2OO for a single article on the
Secret Service in S’Africa. Just here Panton
broke in that Australians in general, and he—
Panton —in particular, were not so simple as they
looked, and the secret agent of the British Govern-
ment would pass six months in Pentridge. Possi-
bly Lyons is, as he says, an agent. But, as he
wasn’t gaoled for being , a secret agent but for
confidence swindling, that won’t make any dif-
ference, even if Mr. Panton does “ hear from
Salisbury.
“F.A.”
(a - M e 1 -
bourne
man) tells
-how he
found a new
borrow :
A hew style
of canvasser
in trod uced
himself to me
t’other day.
lie was got up
in immacu-
late bell-top-
per and flog-
ger, with the
customary
handbag.
After expati-
ating on the
dry weather
(I was sitting
reading o n
the verandah
at the time
and couldn’t
choke him off
by closing the
door), he ex-
plained h e
was a “ phre-
nologist,
palmist and
psychologist,” and expressed a desire to “read the
little girl’s head ” and say what calling she was best
fitted for. I said she had no brains worth mention-
ing, and we intended to drown her when we had time, so
it wasn’t worth while. He departed next door, where are
several little girls. He read no heads there either, but
had a long and, at times, animated conversation with the
lady of the house, finally leaving in a hurry. Per medium
of the small girls aforesaid and our own we subsequently
learned the reason of this prompt departure. After
failing'to work the phrenological racket he opened his
bag, showed the lady a choice assortment of cosmetics,
rouge, powder, etc., for sale, and finally wound up by
offering to paint her face, and to give her all needful in-
structions so that she could paint it herself regularly.
As the lady is a trifle homely, she was, perhaps, justified
in getting annoyed. But what a nerve !
* * * *
Desperate at the low price of cross-bred
wool, Maoriland pastoralists are moving Seddon
to ask Chamberlain to advise the King to set the
fashion of wearing rough tweed goods. Times
have changed with royalty, which must now act
as an Imperial clothes-hook, and submit to have
its legs tickled for the good of its people. Times
have also changed for Seddon, the director of
royal fashions, since nine years ago, when the
same pastoralists sneered at him for the clothes
he was alleged to have sported on his first visit to
Government House.
ART AND REALITY.
INSPIRED DAUBER: “ Just look at those fish catehin' the
gold as they jump out of the wa er."
SMALL BOY : “No they ain't, mister, they're after
prawns!"
The other day an Australian surgeon
successfully removed, by an operation lasting 15
minutes, a leg belonging to an old man who could
not stand chloroform. The anaesthetic used was
cocaine, injected into the spinal cavity. The aged
patient was perfectly conscious during the whole
operation, but felt no pain. By the way, cocaine
injections (and practically all forms of so-called
painless extractions of teeth depend on the injec-
tion of some sort of cocaine mixture) are highly
dangerous, and should not be taken except under
skilled medical supervision.
* * » •
Melbourne Age item :
Every year, at about this time, the chairman of the
Board of Health directs attention to the necessity for
supplying the children attending State schools with pine
drinking water. “ The question,” Dr. Gresswell states,
“ is one of very great importance, and there is no doubt
that many cases of-sickness among school children can be
directly attributed to an impure water-supply. The
board has over and over again urged that filters be erected
at all schools. Almost throughout the State, water pro-
vided for drinking purposes is directly derived from open
catchments, and necessarily contains a large amount of
organic matter, which, if taken into the system, produces
dysentery, typhoid fever, or possibly hydatids.” Dr.
Gresswell adds that, although there has been no general
movement to supply filters to State schools, there are a
number of schools which have been provided with filters,
through the generosity of private individuals or the mem-
bers of the school boards.
Still, there has been a very general movement to
see that every school is provided with a flagpole
and a British banner, and a chance to sing “Gor-
save.” The rulers of the land may be dirty, and
cruelly indifferent to other people’s children
getting diphtheria, hut, anyhow, they’re loyal.
* * * *
Booth-Clibborn (old-man Booth’s son-in-
law) and wife have seceded from the Salvarmy in
America, and have gone over to Dowie, the awful
fraud who professes to be the prophet Elijah, and
wears a pair of red artificial wings on the platform
to symbolise his heavenly mission. The man who
collects new religions, or new stamps, or new
dogs, and who really believes in his fad, is a rest-
less being, always breaking out in a fresh place,
and trying to find a new way of saving his restless,
footsore soul. Dowie’s crowd of fools are largely
ex-Salvationists, and when a new howler arises
with more cheek and bigger wings, his flock will
be largely ex-Dowieites. After all, it is best to
select an old, quiet, moss-grown creed, take it in
small quantities, and stick to it. New
religions, new wines, and new mediseval
ruins are all unsatisfactory. There should be a
haze and glamour of antiquity about all these
things. And the new bagman-apostle, who builds
a huge hall, and buys a pair of wings, and lays in a
new revelation which he expounds from between
new and expensive shop-teeth, and who constructs a
new heaven which is as garish as a new 24-storey
hotel, and has a loud Deity of his own invention
arguing and hustling for 14 hours a day in the cen-
tre of it—he is wholly objectionable, and his new
creed is like unto a huge brown and green check
suit bought ready-made for 245.
« * * *
A considerable part of the South Head
Road (Sydney) bubonic area appears to be Church
property.
» * * * '
Melbourne is just now strewn with dead
babies. Four bodies of infants were found in one
night last week.
The lazy habit of looking to the
Lord for help instead of helping oneself
laid strong hold of an impecunious but
pious individual lately unearthed at Wel-
lington (M.L.). He allowed himself and
family to actually starve, and refused to
permit them to apply to the authorities
for charity. Said that “they must sit
still|and the Lord would provide.” Well,
the Lord did provide in a sense. A
neighbor informed on the crank, and the
Charitable Aid Board provided rations
and rent. “ It’s a good thing,” remarked
the white-chokered chairman _to the trustees,
“that we can help God in little matters like
this.”
• * * •
A S.M. Herald profession and trades
advt.:
/COMPETENT CLERK and BOOKKEEPER wanted,
' must be willing to assist in evangelistic meetings.
Apply by LETTER ONLY, with copies of testimonials,
stating salary required.
G. E. ARDILL,
Sydney Rescue Work Society, 376 Pitt-st.
“State salary required” usually means “lowest
tender accepted.” “ Must be willing to assist in
evangelistic meetings ” apparently means that the
poor devil must work ordinary hours at the
arithmetical mill, and hallelujah at night and on
Sundays by way of overtime.
••• - *
The recent big batch of cases 6f ptomaine
poisoning—over forty—show how the housewife
in crowded suburbs depends upon ..the ready-'
cooked-meat shop for the family supply.
MAORI LOGIC.
MAORI LADY (who has prosecuted another lady for
assault) to clerk of the court: “Where te
fine, mister?”
CLERK: “Oh, the King gets the fine, Becky.”
M. L.: "But te Kingi no get te broke arm!”
During the turning over of the old Devon-
shire-street cemetery, Sydney, the upper portion
of a male skeleton, with the skull smashed m, was
found buried a few inches deep outside the walls
of an old vault. The rest of the remains were
found at some distance similarly interred;.
Another proof of an old-time Bulletin remark,
that a cemetery is the safest place for a murderer
to hide the body in.
*** . *
Governor-General Hopetoun drove a gold
spike in the first rail of Kalgoorlie tramway
system. The hammer (2Jlb. weight) of silver he
kept. While the event was being celebrated with
drinks, a citizen prized the “gold spike” out with a
bar. It was an ordinary iron affair, painted
yellow.
"THE FACE.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the night comes, it is there,
The. same Face—the eyes—the hair.
In-the dark it comes and goes,
While the blind the north wind blows.
Cruel face, I would forget,
Bury deep and lose—and yet 1
If you come to me no more,
’Twas as God shut Heaven’s door
-In the daytime, in the light,
You grow fainter to my sight,
: And at laughing afternoon
Think, “ I will forget her soon."
When the sky lamps mix their glow
With the shining lights below
I forget. But, late at night
Copies the same face to my sight.
When the night comes, it is there,
The same Face—the eyes—the hair.
V.
PINK 'UN.
DANGER EMBOLDENETH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A hoary spider in his lair did lie
In patient wait for passing misadventure! 1
With greedy thought that some poor la4y-fly.
Perhaps into his sticky den might venture* ;
But many days did come and many go,
And heard he not the buzzing of one wing 4 ■'
And ere he hungry died he ne’er did know :
The why he lonely lay : he'd lost his sting f-
N.S.W.
VULCAN.
CONCERNING A DEAD SWEETHEART
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was not fair, O God, to take ,
Her from my arms whilst yet the ache j
For love shone hourly in her eyes-- > •»
Ah, God 1 the wherefore of thy Whys ! >
Didst thou not make some sad mistake ?■ • "
How many nights I lie awake ?
With burning mouth no cup can slake, • :
Since thou hast stolen my. Pearl of Price—
It was not fair !
Across Love’s dreamy eastern lake -
Keen winds now blow and rudely shake
My soul with pains and bitter sigh’s ’
For her—the one that sleeping lies—
Ah, God ! with woe my heart will break.
It was not fair !
GRANT HERVEY.


(Z&A/4Zt//S
PRICES.
M
GOnZHEZ Httstf'i
. . . famous . . .
PORT WINE.
Known in all parts of the world as
THE VERY BEST.
Australian Representatives:
SWIFT &. COMPANY
7 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY
E
2T IN Itt?.
All Drapers Everywhere.
*J“O INTERSTATE VISITORS and OTHERS.
J. M°CLUSKY
(of ADELAIDE),
Has RE-BUILT the ROYAL EXCHANGE, SYDNEY,
Comer of George and King Streets,
with Bars and Dining Rooms thoroughly
up to date.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, January 28, 1902.
My Dear Arini. —
Two days of Sydney Turf Club’s racing at
R nidwick broke the monotony of the long, dank,
moist days. Whether it broke anything else, or
anyone, I know not. Morning and evening
dailies have told the same old jaded lie that “the
arrangements were perfect.” There was the same
3s. 6d. lunch of corned-beef and lettuce, the same
weed tea and scone (at a shilling) and the second
day found the first day’s litter of bookmakers’
tickets and cigar stumps unraked.
The members of the A. J.C. committee have, I
believe, passed the poleaxing age (70 years), long,
long ago, and it’s time they gave place to men
under sixty, or to men to whom the word “pro-
gress ” is not as obsolete as Selah and Amen ; men
who, even if they continue to allow the corn-beef
luncheon (at 3s. 6d.)and the brushwood tea, will
yet sternly prohibit expectorating on the asphalt
m front of the grand-stand. Every woman in the
grand stand enclosure paces the asphalt, and yet
a section of men treat it as they now do not dare
to treat the city footpaths (when a policeman is
about). Eighty per cent, of women at a race-
meeting wear trailing skirts, and even if they all
wore kilts, it’s no reason why the promenade
should be defiled. I can’t understand why the
wives of the respective ancients of other days
haven’t by now requested their spouses to put a
notice in front of the grand stand: “Pigs not
allowed on the asphalt.” But perhaps they are
also too venerable to see clearly.
Anyhow, Mayor Hughes has my permission to
put a couple of policemen on the watch at Rand-
wick to carry out the good work begun by ex-
Mayor Graham in the city.
A few specimens of emerald-green millinery
were at the races —petrels of the storm of. emerald-
green which 'London fashion-bureaux report as on
its way out. At Farmer’s baths, the other morn-
ing I noticed a damsel wearing bright green silk
stockings (she wasn’t in the water, you know) and
long tan boots. She must also have been a petrel.
One of the Ireland’s Eye hats carried jet-black
flowers. Another hat was covered .with pansies,
on the edge of the brim and under and over—big,
velvety, purplish pansies. That hat must have
fiven its wearer considerable heart’s ease. The
andsomest black dress at the meeting was of silk
muslin with a dozen or so of flounces, and a glitter-
ing coat of mail and over skirt. But its wearer
was too slight to carry it effectively. Another
beautiful but too-matronly gown worn by a girl
was covered with a pointed overskirt of Luxeuil
lace which looks like glorified point—the sort of
frock that takes no end of attention and makes you
miss seeing the Arab you backed chasing all the
field before him. Face make-up, at least of the rose-
ate kind, is not so obtrusive these dog-days—7o per
cent, of moisture in the atmosphere forbids it.
Which reminds me: There ? s room for Mark Foy,
or some other big speculator, to add a make-up
salon, such as they have in San Francisco and
New York, to his ventures. Then we might be
spared some of the awful “ works of art” that walk
abroad. In San Fran, and N.Y. arcades (a
travelling friend writes me) you may see the face
artists at work in public. One artist prepares the
skin, another puts on the white, a third adds the
red, and a fourth adds the blacking. Result —a
lovely complexion. ,
One little year—only one—has passed since
“ the greatest sovereign the world has ever seen ”
died. I went up to have a look at the mourning
weeds and wreaths that I felt ought to hang about
Queen Victoria’s statue. This time last year
police had to be stationed to guard the stacks of
costly blooms and to keep the crowd of sorrowing
subjects from being mangled by the tram-cars.
Nearly everyone made a loud and extravagant
profession of his personal loyalty. Now, one year
after, not a scrap of violet and black ribbon, and
only a, single wilted wreath at the Statue’s base,
and, in one of the dailies, an obscure four-line
paragraph stating that the principal of some subur-
ban college was publishing a memorial ode. Press
and Government have apparently forgotten, and
the great heart of the public is not stirred by re-
membrance of even the first death anniversary of
the monarch who reigned 60 years. In the late
Queen’s land they managed things better. Thou-
sands visited the mausoleum at Frogmore, and
most of the majesties of Europe sent wreaths.
Dentists (registered dentists) are grateful to ex-
Mayor Graham. He has worked for 10 years to
get their Dental Act through Parliament. Last
week they inveigled him into the Hotel Australia,
showed their teeth at him, in smiles of course—
their own teeth, not the ones in the show-case—
and presented him with a handsome clock and an
illuminated address In replying, the Dr. men-
tioned that, as president of the Dental Board, he
had had to register some 900 men and women
under the new Tooth Law. There are many
women dentists practising in Sydney— not so
many, though, as in Melbourne, where the system
of dental education has been in advance of that m
this State. A Dental College was started, years
ago, by Lenthall Oldfield, under whom the first
Vic. women dentists studied. They get a con-
siderable amount of milk-teeth work. Under the
Dental Act in this State a blacksmith can no
1 >nger have, in addition to his sign “Horses
s’iood,” another stating that “Teeth are drawn by
Dentist,” as I once saw on the door of a township
smithy, over a hundred miles from Melbourne.
Whilst on matters toothsome, here is a bite out of
a friend’s London letter: “ A woman dentist was
.•■bout to be ballotted for as member of a woman’s
lub. An American dame on the committee ex-
.laimed, in astonishment, ‘A dentist! —would you
admit a dentist ? Why, in America, a dentist’s
social status is that of a butcher ! ’ ”
Newcastle has been lifted high above the range
of its own coal smoke. Lovely Mrs. J. R. Wood
(Essie Jenyns), has re-appeared in aid of a local
charity, appearing as rarthenia in “Ingomar.”
The play was produced on the tennis lawn of Mrs.
Wood’s home, Jesmond House. Weather con-
ditions were unfavorable, a strong southerly was
U P> yet the play under the stars was a success,
and Mrs. Wood received a splendid reception
from a large audience. The part of Ingomar was
Jlayed by Mr. J. A. Wood, that of the miser,
'olydore, by Mr. J. W. Holloway.
Mr. Jack Want, who, with Mrs. Want, is in
Hobart, called for his wife at some science fete
with a buggy which he was driving. The K. C.
wore a poor, but honest, slouch hat and his week-
day clothes. They gave a lift to an English
visitor as far as her hotel, and, later, the English
visitor told her friends “the Australians are
strange people. Mrs. Want’s cabman turned
round on his seat and talked so familiarly to her,
and she didn’t resent it at all. I’ll say this for
him, though, that he’s an extraordinarily intelli-
gent cabman.”
Miss Gladys 0. Brooke, of “Elstow,” Liver-
pool (N.S.W.), was married, on the 15th, to Mr.
Thomas F. Byrne, of Toronto, Canada. The re-
ception was held at the Australia, about 60 guests
being entertained.
Yet another doctor is about to marry a nurse.
Dr. Clubbe weds in March a sister of Mrs. Ed-
wards, who runs the private hospital “St. Hilda.”
«« One-time Mayor Matthew Harris has bought
Etham,” the Mitchells’ mansion at Darling
Point, for, it is said, £4OOO. “Etham” has a
notable ballroom, which some years ago was
draped, as to walls, with thousands of yards of
yellow satin.
Victoria cricket-match commenced in
superb weather. The crowd was comparatively
small. Last time I saw it it was packed like a
box of compressed figs to watch the England-
Australia test-match, and, although the mob on
Saturday, was considerable, it looked small in com-
Earison. In the afternoon there was a cool, soft
reeze that interfered in no way with the play,
and just gave a faint tremor to the garden of
plumes that waved in the ladies’ reserve. At
* ir ®* i the N.S.W. boys were very confident,
and the way they swung their bats round
heads and sent the balls crashing against
the fence was magnificent. The poor Victorians
looked hopelessly beaten, but they didn’t
seem to be dispirited, and just went on bowling as
though they were not being hit all over the green
iu Sin u The sun was getting low down when
the change came, and when the luck turned, it
turned with a vengeance. All day we had
listened to the ball rattling against the fence, and
then from a few minutes before five we heard it
rattling against the wickets, and there came a long
procession of men trying to look dignified as they
walked back to the pavilion while a pitiless
scoring-board showed a large round O against
their names and the O looked larger and more
cruelly circular in the slanting rays of the sinking
sun.
Another justice to the Australian woman : One
of her, Mrs. Maesmore Morris, has taken the
prize for beauty at a contest in London.
This sort of advt. will go as far as the offer of a
cohentingent to make the Commonwealth known
abroad.
S.M. Herald advt. :
jy/TISS FLORENCE MANNING desires SIT. as COOK j
for two months, own room, simple cookery, and
country preferred. Address, &c.
Now, that s what comes of the Broughs playing
“Lady Huntworth’s Experiment.” Only Lady
Huntworth could do better than “simple cookery.”
Concerning cooks: A lady’s Japanese (male)
cook was leaving, and she asked: “Could you
recommend one of your friends who would take
your place?” and got the reply: “No, madam;
all my friends are gentlemen.” Same lady had a
Chinese cook for eight years, and he left to become
editor of a paper. Lately he wrote saying he was
weary of editorial labors and wished to know if he
might resume his position in her establishment.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“Iran against Nellie Stewart the other day,
and that bright charmer talked interestingly of
various things.
.“ ‘ You call me a big woman,’ said Nellie, sip-
ping beef-juice at her own luncheon table ; ‘then
you would describe Melba as enormous. She
dresses like the rest of us, in the French style,
but in a somewhat modified form. Her toilettes!
m fact, are not dazzling, as a rule, but her pearls
pink, black, all the richest and rarest varieties
—they’re marvellous ! Madame twists up her
dark hair quite simply, and she has small, beauti-
fully-shaped hands and feet—for an Australian.’
“ Before I had recovered from the shock con-
veyed by that qualification, Miss Stewart passed
on to the story of Melba’s kindness to Regina
Nagel. The latter, at her own concert, did justice
to her beautiful voice, thanks largely to Melba,
who played her accompaniments, eyeing her pro-
tegeo masterfully all the time. As a rule, it seems
Miss Nagel sings like a Trilby whose Zvengali
3s her time and tune faculties on the alert,
3 her heart and brain, irresponsive to his
power, remain wrapped in a trance.
“ The style of hair-dressing called ‘ Old Byzan-
tine side-wreaths of plaits, classic Grecian chap-
let of white roses, and chic Parisian streamers,
is worn in Paris in conjunction with empire gowns!
•“Miss Stewart, one fancies, is slightly piqued
that ,home-staying Australians find fault with the
lissomuess of her ungirdled figure. Corsets under
classic draperies would, in her opinion, be sar-
torially sinful. Hips have developed so rapidly
since they were emancipated from whalebone and
buckram that Parisiennes are now wearing
specially-made belts as a precaution against the
threatened ‘ Dutch figure.’
“It’s easy to gather from Nellie’s interest in
feminine fripperies that the consciousness of being
a delightfully decorative pantomime lad doesn’t
? revent a stage-star from subscribing to the ‘ San
'oy ’ doctrine that ‘ it’s nice to be a girl some-
times.’ _ And no wonder. For the boy Aladdin,
in all his glory, doesn’t altogether eclipse the radi-
ance of Miss Nellie wearing the flowery muslin of
private life, a Parisian plot of lilac-blooms on her
golden head, big gold circlets in her ears, rings
galore on her fingers, round her neck a dog-collar
of coral-beads, a string of pearls, and a long chain
of smooth, polished slices of turquoise.
“Miss Stewart claims that she can always
recognise an Australian by something keen and
summing-up in the expression of the eyes.
Though she has travelled far, her ways have been
mostly by beaten tracks with ‘every bloomin’
campin’ ground exactly like the last.’ One of her
experiences, however, is strange. Go where she
will she involuntarily annexes a shadow in the
shape of a madman, who follows her as closely as
the lamb did nursery-rhyme Mary. It is not always
the same madman—there is a maniac in every
port, so to speak. One of these eccentrics, bent
on ‘seeing Nellie home,’ invariably tracked her to
her hotel, and finally worked off his excitement by
smashing her windows. Another pathetic wan-
derer, carrying a swag on his back, took it into
his mistaken head that the stage-favorite was
‘-keeping him out of money.’ On her way home
from the Princess she got quite used to meeting
the sad old dreamer at the White Hart corner,
and hearing him ask tearfully, ‘ 0 Nellie 1 why
do you keep me out of my rights ? ”
“ Mayor Gillott’s entertainment of Miss Mabel
Lane and the principal members of the ‘Ben
Hur’ co., at the Town Hall, a week or two ago,
was such a bright and breezy affair that His Wor-
ship—generally a cold, phlegmatic speaker-
sunned the assemblage in hospitable smiles and
waxed quite facetious, though with some difficulty.
‘ I shall do myself the honor and pleasure of wit-
nessing the first performance of “Ben Hur” in
Melbourne,’ said His Gracious Worship, at which
manager Williamson broke in with, ‘ Book that,
Tallis, ’ and the gathering laughed.
“ Miss Mabel Lane, looking large, good-
humored and. handsome, was in a flutter of excite-
ment at being home with ‘ mommer ’ and her
dear old Melb. friends again. ‘ Ah, so delighted!’
she said, with a little sigh born of rapture and
emotion. ‘ I did not sleep all last night on the
boat, I was too excited —too wild with delight at
coming home.’ Miss Lane excited herself in a
tailoresque heliotrope frieze a much-strapped
costume —and revealed a large figure and extensive
hips freefrom whalebone boundaries. So did the
other visions of the co. There are no corsets in
the co., and the bust no longer palpitates under
the chin in Mrs. John Bull’s early Victoria style,
but slopes down in wide, graceful lines. The belt
is drawn down over that part of the body with the
unpoetical name. In fact, you have to guess at
the waist.
“Miss Ruth Mackay, in duck-egg-green linen,
and the American figure very much on the slope,
struck the party assembled as a quaint and unusual
beauty. Sitting, she looked particularly hand-
some ; but standing disappointed the connoisseurs
present by what seemed to be an abrupt shortness
of her supporting members. But, of course, we
can’t have everything, and we’d get very tired of
everything if we had everything.
“The rumpus at the Women’s Hospital is the
very last straw. . For a long time the petticoat
committee, with its cleric bit of dignity attached,
has been at variance with nurses and doctors. One
medical officer alone had the courage to term the
committee a lot of ‘ hysterical old women ’ —
which has been the suppressed opinion of most
other men for a long time. One big, masterful
dame, who puts a large foot down, and ‘thinks
things so., because (O, Solomon Shakespeare !)
because she thinks them so,’was very irate at
the young man’s manner when she was adminis-
tering a rebuke to him, but nearly fainted when
stigmatised as a silly old female, or something
akin to that. Up to this, Father O’Connell—a
very straight-laced, polished and popular clergy-
man had kept things see sawing pretty evenly,
and assuaged the anger of both sides, but at last
even his patience gave way, and he let the reins
go, and then the proceedings gave a wild whoop
and bolted.
“ Janet Lady Clarke has never been seen in a
tongue scrimmage before. One has only seen her in
calm, serene, dignified and dressy moods. But even
she got her feathers ruffled when presiding at the
inquiry of the great Hospital Row the other day,
and blazed a little amid the general conflagration.
Here are two of her embers:— ‘ The doctors seem
to be trying to appear more humane than the
committee, and in reply to the secretary’s com-
ment (on being dismissed) that he had just finished
15 years’service, ‘We are sorry the 15 years are
over.’ One can hear the gently sarcastic tones of
the Lady Bountiful of /Cliveden ’ when making
these quiet remarks.
“The Runic, on leaving Port Melbourne pier
on Saturday afternoon for S’Africa and London,
took away a fair shipload of plungers into the
Dark Continent, mostly fine young men whom
Victoria can ill afford to lose. It was a heart-
rending sight to see the old ladies from up country
come to see the last of their sons, the poor old
sunburnt, wrinkled faces wet with tears, and
the boys hardly less cut up. Many of
the voyagers looked as if they hadn’t 100
Eence in the world, and yet they must
ave begged or borrowed their £lOO somehow.
The family parties looked a bit frowsy, exactly the
same sort of people who used to pour out of Vic.
and fill up the coasting steamers chock-a-block
when the Westralian boom was on. They keep a-
movering, these nomads, don’t they ? And they’re
not much use to any country when they are there.
•Among the more swagger passengers were Miss
Nellie Robertson, Dr. R.’s daughter from Portsea,
gone to see the world and try her luck as a stage-
costume-designer a la ‘Alias’s’ artists; Lionel
Lindsay, off to Spain (he’s learnt the langwidge);
young Middleditch, an ex-contingenter (but not
taking any kharki this time, full up of war’s
alarms, gone to a b eace ful billet in Bulawavo);
and Mr. and Mrs. Barber (Miss Warden Graves,
r>" rmnp to live in Adelaide.
‘Mrs. Fred. Aronson, late of the Sydney Mail
has settled down in Melb. with her family, having
taken Alta Vista,’ the Keatings’ place in South
Xarra. Ihe energetic penlady has, however, had
her troubles, lately, and has been ordered to a
private hospital to try the new cure for bronchial
asthma. All Sassiety women go in for this new
tad now; it is called the ‘rest cure,’ and the
patient goes to bed and does absolutely nothing
untu she feels too bored to stay there any longer.
1 hen she arises and declares herself perfectly re-
covered. J
Sa,n Toy ’ was checked in her kite-flying
career for full five minutes, on Saturday night,
while Howard .Vernon was hand-clapped back
again among his old co. The heat was ‘some-
thmk orful, but. a large crowd slowly trickled
away in perspiration in d.c. and elsewhere. The
cricketers were there ; Maclaren, in dress clothes,
with gaudy cummerbund and no vest—his wife in
white. Dolly. Menzies looked like her old part in
Da t oupee,, in a dolly rig. Mrs. Johnny Sandes
trod majestically the corridor in her matronly
way ail d a muslin gown. Mrs. S. ought to be
histrionic, judging by her style, for she’s very
like the prints of Miss Farren (not Nellie), who
married Earl Derby.
Mrs. MacDevitt, a very smart little widow,
who was formerly amanuensis to Lady M'Eacharn,
has been run m for the managership of the Ladies’
lnstitution a highlv-genteel business
createcl to push the needlework and handicrafts
or the JNaicest who are limited in their manicure
money, or the sadly-reduced who like to make a
few pounds by stealth and blush to find the cash
handed over publicly. Quite a number of smart
girls, supposed to be badly off, dispose of their
point laces in this fashion. The manageress is
required by. the association to be a person of nice
discrimination, though what she is more particu-
larly to discriminate about I can’t say.
, a glorious field for fishing operations
does Hobart present to the Melbourne girls at the
g resent time . with seven men-of-war in port!
rirls left behind with mother in this forsaken
city, or knocking out a lively time to the tune of
picnic pannikins, where women— all women—are
gathered for their sad bit of fun at the sea-side,
tear their hair when they think of those seven
men-of-war. Also, there is a science congress and
a medical congress at Hobart and a mighty excess
of men in the tight little island at present, while
the man-less state of this Victorian Sea-siding
season is beyond all precedent.
It was a notable fact at a Melbourne be&uty’s
wedding that all her old admirers turned up right
bravely to. see the knot-tying. Do men do this
sort of thing to show that they are not at all
grieved, or to show that though deeply grieved
they forgive the lady everything ?
A widower, whose form of mourning has been
a matter of much advertisement throughout the
States, keeps up the grief on anniversary days bv
banquets of a gruesome nature. The flower-bowls
are coffin-shaped, immortelles being the decoration.
One glass of wine (that cannot, by its nature, be
kept from fizzing) is toasted to the memory of the
much-loved lady, and then the glasses are turned
down, and the Macbeth banquet is solemnly got
through, and the ghost keeps vigil till the nuts are
cracked and eaten dry. No more wine is allowed
to gladden the hearts of the chosen round the In -
Memoriam board. There is a test of friendship if
you like.
An uncertain Victorian district has ft robust
scandal on hand. A young matron has just
decamped with her gardener. While the master
of the house was busy over his dogs and horses,
the amours of the gardener and his missus passed
unobserved,. and it ended in the lady’s abrupt
departure with the genius of the hose. It is ex-
plained, however, that she was always mentally
uncertain, and that she is now a lunatic at large.
Miss Maud Joliffe, a pretty Melb. girl of the
honeysuckle type, sweet and sunny, is a favorite
poseuse for artiste Florence Fuller. At the Vic-
Artists’ Exhibition, last winter, Miss
Joliffe stood in a scene, of ripening sunbeams or
snooting corn, or something in the harvesting line,
lhe light, fairy-like form depended for its effect
on floating pale-gold hair and a hat of scarlet
poppies. Again, the other day, at the Vic.
Sculptors’Show, Miss Fuller’s landscape showed
Miss Joliffe recumbent in a scene of green grass
backed by a belt of trees. Another girl and a dog
were details.
.'' South Australia they are brave folks. Con-
sider this announcement in an Adelaide weekly :
„, " e „ ai ' e as^e( f to state that the engagement between
Mrs. 0. S. Newman and Mr. R. JVC. Freeborn is broken
oft.
Only a woman could make the switching-off thus
public.
Governor-General Hopetoun, in his speech
at the Melbourne A. N. A. banquet, on Monday
night, showed how much vice-regal influence has
been already allowed to trespass on Australian
self-governing rights. He defended Mr. Barton’s
attitude in regard to the Federal contingent, and
stated that he and Mr. Barton “ had anxiously
discussed the matter for many months, ” and had
come to a common opinion. It is not Hopetoun’s
business to defend Barton, nor Barton’s business
to discuss matters of policy with Hopetoun. The
Governor-General should be merely in the position
of a signing-machine, to register the decisions of
Parliament. Apparently, he has been allowed to
usurp the privileges of a consulting member of the
Cabinet. In fact, it would appear that he and
Barton are the Cabinet now.


(itiZGdS’ljife insurance Company [imited.
Premier Industrial-Ordinary Office of Greater Britain.
POLICISS INT FORCE EXCEED 216,000.
IMMEDIATE SETTLEMENT OF CLAIMS.
Absolute Security.
Moore and Oastlereagk Streets,
Sydney-
Annual Bonuses
Resident Secretary,
W. J. BLOOMFIELD, 8.A., LL.B.
They say of an Australian M.P. taking his
holidays that, when his attention was drawn to
Mt. Kosciusko, he looked and said: “That's
Kosciusko, is it ? By Jove ! no wonder freedom
shrieked. But how did they stand the thing up
again ? ”
New South Wales Government is gradually
supplanting the male with female shorthand-
writers and typists; the rate of pay, commencing
at £125 per annum for a competent girl, is good.
New positions! in the Government are constantly
being advertised, and the remarkable fact is that
all the successful candidates have been trained at
one establishment, the Metropolitan School of
Shorthand, of this city. This school is conducted
by the United Typewriter and Supplies Co., of
114 Pitt street, Sydney.*
j FACILE PRIIMCEPS. 1
[ semper idem. I
WHISKY.
Lightest Wines in Australia.
Supplied to H.R.H. the Puke of York.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
When Minister O'Sullivan starts that
paper which he is engaged upon, he will be able
to say that he founded papers in Hobart, Mel-
bourne and Sydney.
Federal appointment rumors : Forrest,
High Commissioner; Lyne, President of the
Inter-State Commission ; Barton, Chief Justice ;
Reid, puisne Judge of the High Court.
A Sydney D.T. correspondent suggests
that the Federal capital be called “ Chamberlain,”
in token of “ Australia’s debt to that great man.”
But why not “ Iscariot ” ? It would be shorter.
As Victoria died and Edward VII. acceded
on January 22, a devotedly loyal spinster of
Darling Point celebrated the anniversary by being
sad one-half of the day and glad the other half.
Dear Bulletin. —Concerning the interest-
ing photos of casts of heads appearing in Bulletin
of 18/l/’O2, can you inform me what murders the
two ruffians, Hopkins and May, were hanged for ?
—Constant Reader.
The skipper of the barque Earl of Duinore,
now in the Yarra, reports a suicide, on the voyage,
by a Swedish sailor, who persisted in slowly
starving himself to death—with the whole ocean
alongside to throw himself into.
Witness at a Westralian inquest on a
t’othersider who died suddenly: “The deceased
told me that he consulted a doctor about-his heart
before he left Sydney. The doctor’s name was
Devil Cash or something like that.”
At the funeral of Australian explorer Eyre
there was present no representative of Australia :
the Agents-General were too busy grovelling to
royalties. The tombstone described Eyre as
“ex-Governor of Jamaica,” and made no mention
of his more happy Australian and Maoriland
career.
It is alleged that Cameron, of Boer-hunt-
ing fame, is a bit of a martinet at his home in
Tasmania, and requires every individual on the
estate, male and female, to recognise; him in mili-
tarvstyle. The spectacle of the lady who does
t ie washing saluting the majah with an arm
covered with soap-suds must be very imposing.
Edward Levien Samuel, Bart., son of old
Saul Samuel, who was connected with N.S.W.
politics for half-a-century, goes to London, his
father’s birthplace, to take up financial specula-
tions. It was thought he would have tried
Australian politics, but he has no inclination for
struggling in a cloud of dust at a small salary.
Two men are in the running for the
possibly-thankless, but well-paid, job of represent-
ing the workers on the new Industrial Arbitration
Court—Alf. Edden and Sam Smith, M’s.P.
Edden is a miner, Smith a seaman. The city
trade bodies are, for the most part, supporting
Smith; the miners, both coal and silver, are
running the other man.
Definitely reported to The Bulletin from
Melbourne that Dry Dog Reid has been con-
sulted as to whether he would approve of John
Forrest as High Commissioner, and has said
“Yes.” It seems a certainty, therefore, that
Bigjohn will go to London. The salaried Cabinet
post thus rendered vacant will, if all promises
are kept, fall to P. O. Fysh.
Peculiar names in M.L. At Kumara the
Beehive Stores are kept by Mrs. Honey.
At Christchurch
barber with a sign-
“lCutts”
there is a
board
REP. PADDY GLYNN,
The South Australian whirlwind.
Cardinal Moran :
The Very Rev, Dean M'lncroe was the first to take up a
charge under the Church in Australia, in the year 1832.
But Governor King sanctioned the ministrations
pf the Rev. Dixson in 180,3, and R.C. services
were regularly held for years. The Cardinal
probably refers to the first State-salaried priests.
Two of these were appointed about the time
stated.
The Victorian politicians visiting Sydney
for some sporting trials are having a very wet
time indeed. One of them, going down the har-
bor the other day with a friend, saw approaching
a man with a small white parcel in his hand. The
politician promptly held out a hand grasping at
an imaginary tumbler ! Force of habit brought
him to the conclusion that the parcel must be a
napkined bottle of champagne.
Duncan Gillies is lounging around Melb.
“ Block ” again, trying to look as though he had a
policy up his sleeve, and might be expected to save
the country at any minute. But Duncan now-
adays is only a red, shiny, hairless joke to those
who know him for what he was. To the younger
generation he is seemingly an unknown little
person half buried under a big bell-topper. Even
the caricaturists have forgotten him.
Be White Australia, the following are
some registered shareholders in a Charters Towers
(Queensland) mining co. : —Ah Hum, Ah Wah,
Ah See, Chau War, Chung Jing, Dick On, Hook
Ing, Hop Way, Hip Lee, Hong Bun, Kam Say,
Kee Hung, Loui Ting, Lee Yow, Lee Dick, Lee
Sing, Leong Eat, Leong Hoy, Leong Gow, Lee
Shing Jang, Low Nin, Leong Loo, Leong Wah,
Low Gow, Mon Tin, Maw Sing, Mow Chow, Moo
Cheong, Sue Kay, Sing Jang and Tiy Hoy.
A person temporarily accepted for the
116th Maoriland contingent was subsequently
bumped out because he couldn’t ride. In the
meantime a farewell and presentation had been
arranged, and it came off on the night that he was
rejected. Now what enrages the givers of the
feast is the report that the honored guest knew
he wasn’t going when he sat down to the farewell
dinner, and accepted the congratulations and the
presentation telescope, and had his health drunk
with nine cheers as one of the props of the
Empire.
James Bagge, a mild-mannered old gentle-
man, at present in a weak state of health, has
been appointed Victorian Auditor - General-
rumor says because his previous billet was wanted
for a Ministerial friend. Victoria’s accounts have
lately been audited by three mild old gentlemen
in rather weak health, and report has it that the
accumulated muddle is something remarkable.
Why should this most important and onerous
billet be the natural perquisite of elderly gentle-
men in weak health ?
Governor George Clarke, of Victoria, was
to have been presented on leaving England with
a purse by those .working under him at Woolwich
Arsenal, but declined to accept. It is time some
similar public spirit operated in Australia.
Cabinet Ministers, inspectors, and under secre-
taries of public departments exhibit watches
and chains, and boast of purses of money raised
from the rank-and-file that worked, and in some
cases still work, under them. When the sub-boss
passes round the subscription list for the boss’s
testimonial, it is blackmail pure and simple.
Mat Hardy, one of the best-known sports
amongst Vic. identities dating back to the fifties,
passed out, at Ballarat, the other day, killed by
gout, rheumatism, and the burden of 73 years.
Australia never saw a better fighter (old style)
than Mat Hardy, and he met all the toughest at
one time or another in the out-of-door rings on
the big fields. -Hardy’s head was long as well as
tough, and hq ,inade money at the game, and
stored it for future use. He died in the Ballarat
Benevolent Asylum, where he had been for many
years a paying guest.
Fred Smalpage, who was drowned at
Manly (N.S.W.), the other day, while attempting
to rescue a girl from the sea, was a birth-connec-
tion of the Hen tv- family of Vic. pioneers. He
got into Broken Hill before the railway, and with
his brother built and ran the first wine and spirit
store there. Broken Hill’s supplies of liquor were
then hauled up from the head of the line by
donkey-team. Smalpage was in those days
reckoned good with his hands and his feet, even
in a community where the amateur boxer and
ped. flourished luxuriantly.
There is a certain fitness in Philp’s inti-
mation that be will probably send Rutledge, if
anyone, to represent Queensland by looking on at
the Coronation march. Rutledge, since lie aban-
doned the cloth for the Devil’s brigade, has always
had a watery mouth for anything like rank. He
impressed on Lamington, when that harmless
person was leaving, that none but a “British
nobleman ” should be sent to govern Queensland,
and is said to have lost sleep over that feature of
the appointment. Rutledge, who began as a par-
son, has a couple of brothers parsons in N.S.W.,
and is the son of a Parramatta schoolmaster.
The Sydney Orange lodges have erected
a memorial to the late militant pastor, Madgwick,
and, in inaugurating it, Grand Master Wheeler,
recounting some of the deceased clergyman’s acts,
said (S.M. Herald report) that, as had been re-
marked, “the good that men did lived after them.”
But what Shakespeare did say was that “ the evil
that men did lived after them—the good was oft
interred with their bones,.” Which is true of
Pastor Madgwick, who privately was (like his red-
hot friend, Pastor Dill-Macky) a man of most
benevolent instincts. His many kindly private
deeds will soon be forgotten, but to all men will
be known bis legacy of bale.
Par. (B. 18/1/-02) re the tragic
death of Frank Curley errs in attributing his fate
to loss of nerve. He lost his life through trying
to save the horses of the fire-fighters. His com-
panion, Balme, realising (after racing some
distance towards the place where the horses were
tied up) that the animals must he abandoned if
his own life was to be saved, turned aside in
time. Curley went too far, and was caught.
Goldsbreugh, Mort and Co. sent (unsolicited) a
cheque for £5O to the widow. Curley was highly
esteemed by all who knew him, and had on several
desperate occasions evinced the possession of
plenty of courage and nerve.
Grant Hervey on an Impressionist:—
Artist Streeton, as most people are aware, is an Im-
pressionist of very many kaleidoscope-power. I was
standing one day before the couple or so of Streeton’s
works hung in the Melbourne Gallery, and ready to bolt
if they attacked me, when I was accosted by a limp,
stunned-looking, but very well-groomed old gentleman
with the query : “ Excuse me, sir, but could you tell me
what that Substance is ? ’’--indicating Streeton’s work
with a nervous forefinger. I informed him that it was a
Masterpiece. The aneient seemed reassured and eyed the
work more closely awhile. Then he turned round and
said : “ Ah, thanks, thanks ; I see it is a—er—picture
now. Thanks, very much. Do you know, I thought it
was an infernal machine, and was frightened that it was
going to explode ? I can’t run very fast, you know, and I
could have sworn I heard the thing fizzing ! ! ! ”
From the Star (Sydney) :
In one of the wards of St. Thomas’s Hospital, London,
is an old soldier, Sergeant Brown, who fought in the
Indian Mutiny, and who is now in his 92ndyear. He went
to London from Coventry, and got lost in the fog. He
was found in an exhausted condition by a constable, who
took him to the hospital. Sergeant Brown has lost two
sons in South Africa, and it was while at Plymouth,
awaiting the return of his second son, that he read of his
death, at De Aar, in the list of casualties. The object of
the trip to London was to receive the money due to his
son. The old man was in the Dragoon Guards, and was
captured and tortured at Cawnpore. He is in receipt of
a pension of twopence a day.
Fourteen pence per week for fighting for the
stretching of the Empire. The gratitude of St.
Jingo !
Acarefu’ body aboot the siller was Vic-
toria’s one-time Governor Brassey. He and Lord
Neville were on Sunbury railway station once, and
Neville asked the clerk for change of a sovereign.
In handing it over, a sixpence fell and rolled out
of sight. Neville threw a careless glance after it,
then wandered out of the office on to the platform.
Brassey, however, was not going to follow so un-
thrifty an example. He got down heavily on all
fours, and scrambled after that sixpence, as if it
were his last. When he had groped about under
a desk and shifted a few stools and things, lie
arose, flushed with honest triumph, and proudly
restored the coin. Possibly Brassey’s frequent
fallings off arose through over-balancing bimself
while keeping an eye on the possible sixpence.
Death announced of E. B. L. Dickens (son
of the famous Charles) once M.P. for Wileannia,
N.S.W. None of the sous of Charles Dickens
inherited the old novelist’s brains. Even the
magazine which the old man founded has drifted
into the hands of a person named Hall Caine.
E. B. L., a decent, good-tempered fellow, was
credited with one remark in Parliament which
was printed by 807 papers as “smart. Willis,
M.P., had been talking angrily and Dickens rose
up: “My late father,” he said, “wrote ‘Barkis
is Willing.’ If he’d been here to-mght he would
have remarked ‘ Willis is Barking.’ ” The weird
“joke” went the round of the world’s papers for
nearly ten years. The Bulletin now reprints it,
with malice aforethought, knowing that it will
end it on another Wandering Jew journey.
“ The ‘ H< >ros ’ pair—otherwise named
Jackson,—who founded a new and dirty sect in
London, are probably the twin vilest products of
modern days,” writes The Bulletins London
correspondent. “ They have just proceeded
through their trinl to fi long and well-earned
spell of hard labor. Hardened cosmopolitans, to
whom Paris, ’Frisco (China-side), Yokohama, and
Port Said had displayed their worst depths,
shivered at the evidence that was not given in
Court, hut yet was in the original depositions.
Both defendants are physical freaks and degene-
rates of the most degenerate. Their financial
pr lit was to come out of the sale of the girl
converts of the new sect to the richest Continental
bagnios. The woman Jackson (or Horos) claims
to he a daughter of the Lola Montes,
known to Australia s 1 early days.
Charles Hot-
son Ebden, a
a Sydney mer-
chant of the
’3o’s and a Vic-
torian politician
and very tem-
porary Treasurer
of later years (“ a
disgustingly rich
man,” he styled
himself), owned
the pastoral pro-
perty known as
Carlsruhe (Vic.).
In those days
the pioneer
squatter was
much trou-
bled with
visitors. Eb-
den was the
first to es-
tablish the
“Visitors’
Hut.” He
gave offence
to some, but
that did not
trouble Eb-
den. One day,
Dr. Palmer (after-
wards Sir James
Palmer), Presi-
d e,n t of the
Legislative
Council, rode up
and,- whether
he was recog-
nised or not,
to the “Visi-
tors’ Hut” he
was sent.
, The shocked
visitor re-
solved to get
square by
treating his
host as a
com m o n
publican, and
in the morning
left a guinea to
pay his bill. The
‘ disgustingly rich
man ” seldom parted
with a guinea, but he
reluctantly tore himself away
from this one. He wrote to Palmer
acknowledging “a most extraordinary communi-
cation containing a cheque, which, as I am totally
unable to conceive any reasonable explanation. I
have forwarded to the Lunatic Asylum.”
Sydney Telegraph describes some Federal
members ;
Dr. Quick, who seems to have been born with a long
coat on his back, has returned from his holidays in an
ordinary business suit. The best-dressed men in the
Chamber are William Lyne and Bruce Smith. When Mr.
Lyne has the second reading of a bill to move he turns
out a spotless figure from the fashionable tailor, a button-
hole in his coat, and a tie that even Collins-street would
not challenge. Mr. Bruce Smith is always a picture so
perfect that it would be sacrilege to suggest an improve-
ment as possible. Mr. William M‘Millan varies his suit,
and rarely appears in the same one two days in succes-
sion. Mr. Reid is careless about his dress, and picturesque
in his attitudes. He sits at the centre table on the Oppo-
sition side absorbed in some papers, and, probably, unob-
served indulging in spasms of sleep. When he has had
enough of a discussion he wafts out through a back door.
Mr. Isaacs, Mr. Langdon Bonython, Mr. O’Malley,
and Mr. V. L. Solomon are the principal per-
manent victims of the frock coat. Mr. George Turner
sticks always to the short coat, sometimes to a flannel
shirt, and generally to a small buttonhole, consisting of
nothing more aggressive than a decadent geranium. The
Labor men affect the expansive shirt front, with long,
narrow necktie.
Veteran : Field-Marshal Sir Neville Cham-
berlain, referred to in B. 18/1/02, is a man who,
though little known in Australia or England,
stands as high as Roberts as an authority on
military questions, if not higher. He has had
much more war service than Roberts, and those
who have served with, or under, both, would pre-
fer to rely on Neville Chamberlain’s judgment.
Chamberlain was always cool and quiet in action,
and the greater the danger and difficulty, the
quieter he got. Roberts, as a young man, was
apt to get excited. Chamberlain, too, has always
steadily disapproved of a policy of adventure and
annexation. He knows too well the risks of war,
no matter how skilfully carried on, and has learned
the importance of the “personal equation”—that
utterly incalculable element in every estimate of
force. We have so many thousand good troops,
so many big guns, so much money ; and the other
fellows haven’t half that. Well, have you a man
with braius enough to use your means to the best
advantage, and are you sure the other fellow can’t
find someone with better brains ? That’s the per-
sonal equation which is never worked out till one
side is beaten, and then you know the value of “ x.”
( FOR THE
BULLETIN. )
WHEN FATHTHER FILLS
HIS PIPE
g
> B@Ol?baOC3'»*/
fW&F [—ibe old. maos ba.ccas gone
ii astray-
fllprl a new plug yesterday"
so there is the deuce to pay
When father! fills his pip
ry~i ost like his pipe is lost again, M,
And curses fall as thickas rain,
hair gfbws whiter with the
When father fills his pipe. p??*;
revul when he’s placing cards its
J D) The other players growl & curse;V- |
The gets slower than a
wtffen father fills his pipe. v*
n really think that dad must be
The L°rd of earth and of Ihe sea,
For everything must stop while be
(Thats fills bis pipe
Cv/c.)
FRVIK RADCLIFF.


dfg
bulletin subscribers^-
Who are unable to read small printed matter, or to see fine
stitching or writing, whose distant vision is dull and who suffer
from persistent headaches or pains after close application—you
may rest assured that you are suffering from Ageing or
Impaired Vision, and Need Glasses. You should visit
us, and have your sight scientifically tested, and be supplied
with Glasses adapted to your individual case.
TO COUNTRY READERS who cannot visit us personally, we send, Post Free to any address, with full instruc-
tions and Price List, our marvellously-accurate and popular SELF. SIGHT-MEASURING PATENT. By its use
you can Test your own sight and determine for yourself the style and quality of the glasses you may need.
Write for it to—
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Consulting: Optician,
371 George St., Sydney,
next door to the A.J.S. Bank.
King and George Streets.
And at); 232 COLLINS ST„ MELBOURNE, opposite AQB^>fllee.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors.— ln the case of ethnological and
natural-history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific value.
Extracts from report in North Ooolgardie
Herald (W.A.) :
PENDINNIE SPORTS.
The Pendinnie Sports were held on January 1, and
proved most successful, the racing being good. The fol-
lowing were the results :
Maiden Race.
Ethaline „ ..1
Maggie 2
Yes-No Handicap, Wobbler Race.
Dry Dog George (aboriginal) .. .. 1
Toby 2
A protest against Dry Dog George for running straight
was disallowed.
Barmaids’ Go-As-You-Please.
After an exciting race run in good time the P. D. Corsets
were landed by Maggie.
Dry Dog Trot.
Sweepstake, winner collars the coin and last man
shouts all round.
Groggery 1
Gorilla .. 2
The Eucalyptus Pannikin.
Aboriginal race. First prize, 5s and packet Monkey
Soap ; second, box of seidlitz powders. After a ding-dong
battle the race resulted —
Monkede .. .. .. .. ..1
Slogger Bill 2
McGinty .. .. .. .. ..3
The Dusky Virgins’ Plate.
Prizes included tea and sugar, corned beef, Sunlight
and soft soap, and dynamite. Six gins lined up to the
music of the Bummer’s Creek band. A splendid race
ensued, and, after the.loss of several currajong costumes,
Dingle won by a toe-protector.
Shouters’ General Blow-Out.
Two bob in. Won by Morrison.
* * » •
Choice manifesto nailed to a tree on a
Queensland cattle-run :
NOTICE.
£lO 10s. REWARD. £lO 10s.
Any Persons Cot Steling Cattle Branded EC2 and Ear-
merk three Split Under the off Ear showing like horse’s
head with HP conjoined. The reward Will be tow any
one that Will Prosecuted, the Cattle steling. the reward.
Will be Peid, to any Person, that Will Prosecuted, the
Strespings On maryvale run. or Steling my Stock. No
one Heve my permishen. To muddle Wit my Stock.
Or to Have tham in there Persison any one Have any
EC2 Stock inpersison, the or Steling tham
£6-5 reward to ketch the man the man that Sterted Bush
fire
The first I Will ketch 1 Will Prosecuted tham Witouta-
dout.
this Will Hold good for Ever
ketch Him ketch him and get the reward
- ■ . Station
“Ex-C.” : Re “ Jack-a-Clubs’” stockman
imitating calf to attract cow to its (the calf’s)
hiding place I also say “ Ba-a.” In my part of
the Commonwealth we invariably take a dog,
with the result that the cow treks at the double to
protect her offspring.
* * * »
Dear Bulletin. — Re par in B. 11/l/’O2
describing Australian white woman travelling
with Kanaka. Provided the fee is forthcoming, no
parson will refuse to join such together in “ holy
matrimony.” Compare such moral laxity with
law passed by Transvaal Yolksraad in Feb. ’97,
entitled “A Law for the Suppression of Im-
morality in the Republic. Clause 7 reads :
The white woman, who voluntarily allows a colored
man to consort with her, will be punished with imprison-
ment, with or without hard labor, for a term not exceed-
ing five years, and with banishment from the Republic.
Clause 8 says that the nigger consorting with a
white woman, whether she consents or not, shall
be made to sit up to an extent not exceeding six
years’ imprisonment and 60 lashes.— D.G.G.
The usual fate of The Bulletin’s “ Abor-
iginalities ” page is to publish a statement by one
man about something, or anything, and then the
infuriated denials of four other men, who are
speedily contradicted and set right on details by
sixteen other men, who presently get into a free
fight with each other and the five previous men,
until only a tail and a scrap of hair are left. There-
fore, “QuilpN.,” having made some remarks in
this column about White Island (Maoriland), the
following contradiction by “ Little John ” follows
as a matter of course and helps to keep up the
interest of things, though, as a contradictor, “L.
J.” isn’t a patch on McCooey :
Editor Bulletin.—About White Island and your par
(18/l/’O2) : The lake cannot conveniently be “ two miles
long and a quarter broad,” because the island contains
bub 500 acres in a round form. Nor did the lake first
appear six years ago. The present writer has known it
since 1866, and heard traditions concerning it extending
well into three centuries. The island is probably the
most extraordinary in the world. It consists of a horse-
shoe range of basaltic hills rising to about 1000 ft high,
cleft by a gorge at the southern extremity, through
which access is obtained from a small shingly beach to
the interior basin of pure sulphur, a flat area of about 100
acres carrying the lake. An attempt was made some
years ago to test the commercial value of the sulphur and
gypsum deposits, but it was abandoned, perhaps owing to
the difficulty of sustained work in such an atmosphere.
The lake is of a deep green color, warm, corrosive, and is
sufficiently strong in acid to work a medical battery. It
measures thirty chains by twenty. At the northern ex-
tremity of the flat is the crater, in a ceaseless state of
agitation, pouring out huge volumes of vapor, accom-
panied by thunderous rumblings, which are heard by
steamers afar off. The wild nor’-easters are'a notice to
quit White Island, as stifling fumes then sweep hill and
valley, without, however, apparent harm to the mutton
birds, which resort to the sea-facing cliffs in millions
during the breeding season.
[Seems rather a crowded island, anyhow, with a
shingly beach, a gorge, an interior flat, a green
lake, a range of hills 1000 ft. high, and a orater,
all on 500 acres.— Ed. B.]
* * * •
“ Werrimee ” : Re bushmen’s accommoda-
tion. The worst treated men in this respect are
wool-scourers. AtoneN.S.W. wool-scour, where
the scouring lasts from two to four months every
year, there is nothing but a rough bough shed,
erected seven years ago, under which the men eat
their meals. Dead leaves, bits of bark, and dust
of grub-eaten wood drop into the soup and curry
and tea bucket; when it rains the leaf-dyed water
bespatters everything ; and when the tri-weekly
dust-storm comes along, if the “table” is not at
once cleared or covered with a wool sheet, in two
minutes nothing can be seen but heaps of brown
dust. The usual table is a sheet or two of
galvanised iron nailed on two rough planks; and
the seats are simply two saplings—one at each
side —from three to four inches in diameter, laid
across three forks. There is no sleeping accomo-
dation, and the majority, who don’t carry tents,
have to stretch out night after night for weeks
under trees and bushes like kangaroos.
* * * ♦
Brown and Jones were chmns. Brown
had a wayback school and was a great cricketer.
Jones was the son of a cocky, and was “ goin’ for
a taeher.” One day, the inspector, who had never
met Brown, called round to examine the school.
Jones, who had been about the school a lot, and
knew pretty well how to run things, was in '
charge. Things were not satisfactory, and, before
the inspector left, he said : “ Mr. Brown, you’ll
have to wake these children up a bit, and get
better results.” “Pm not Brown,” was the
reply, “I’m Jones.” “Jones!” roared the
inspector, “Who’s Jones? —and where’s
Brown?” “Oh, he’s taking a holiday; he’s
down at the coast with the cricketers.” Brown
is still on “holiday,” and Jones is running the
school.
* * * *
“ The Mac ” : Re “ footing ” it. In ’95 I
walked (with a 221 b. swag) from Dubbo to Jaloon
station, beyond Coonamble, in three days ; and
in ’7B I walked from 10 miles beyond Rocky
River, New England, to three miles beyond
Tamworth (over the Moonbies) in 12 hours ; but
I ran down the Moonbies.
* * * ♦
“ A.P.R.” : Re billies: Sorenson (8.,
11/l/’O2) omits some technical terms. The process
of swathing billies in bagging is called “ rugging ’
(horsey term). Hence “rugged billy.” A billy
fashioned from a fruit tin is universally known as
a “Whitely King,” from the secretary of the
Pastoralists’ Union, who, during the shearing
troubles, sent out bands of non-unionists furnished
with these impromptu utensils. They are accord-
ingly despised, and considered a badge of poverty.
\ The best way to remove a quart pot from the fire
is to seize it around the rim with the bare fingers.
It seems incredible, but writer has done it often,
and received no hurt thereby. The water, how-
ever, must be boiling. Probably, learned men can
give a reason for it.
* * * *
“Quilayen”: “Cos” (8., 11/l/’O2) on
shearing tallies is a frost. He does not say
whether the shearers used hand or machine. As
a matter of fact, Howe is the fastest hand-shearer
in the States, 316 being his top tally, at either
Aramac or Alice Downs (Q.). Power is a machine-
shearer, and his best tally is 321. I believe in
both these cases the shearers had men belly-
woolling their sheep. No tallies like these have
been cut in N.S.W., the Queensland sheep being
better cutting, and the cut, often enough, high,
wide, and heavy. Billy Lynem and Frank
Ashford have both cut over 250 in this State.
[This discussion now leaves off. Even the man
who shears 450 giraffes in one day won’t get a hear-
ing till The Bulletin has had a rest.— Ed. B.]
* • * *
Dear Bulletin. — ln re age of Australian
birds (21/12/’01). A sulphur-crested cockatoo
that belonged, from the time it was hatched
until it died, to the Hill family, lived for
nearly 88 years. There was another which
was —and may be still —in a family at Blayney
(N.S.W.), which was over 44 years old six or
seven years ago, and had laid four eggs every year
for 36 years previously. Therefore, the magpie
at Coonamble, 40 years old, isn’t a Methusaleh
by many jugsful.—H. J. M‘Cooey.
A DEAD-ORF 'UN.
BROWN: “Sorry, old man, I can't offer you a
cigar; this one's an orphan."
JONES: “Yes, judging by its smell it's time it
was buried with its parents !”
“ Traveller ” : During a recent visit to the
Lower Burdekin district (Q.) I watched those
who passed one of the leading hotels all one
Sunday afternoon, the proportion being somewhat
as follows: Japs or Chows, 40 per cent, of the
total ; Kanakas, 19 per cent. ; whites, 17 per
cent, The balance were a mixed crowd of
Malays, aboriginals or half-breeds. In this
neighborhood a Chinese farmer, who employs
his white father-in-law and two white brothers-
in-law as ploughmen, says he will collect
the excise rebate allowed on sugar grown with
white labor even if he has to sack his various
Chow laborers and employ all his white relatives.
He is a far-seeing Chow, and I guess he’ll collect
that rebate all right.
♦ * * *
About 25 years ago, on Thames (M.L.)
gold-field, a miner employed in a specimen-mine
had a tiff with his sweetheart, and in revenge
trotted another girl past her residence on the way
to the races. The consequence was that he was
arrested on the course “ on information received ”
for stealing some £7OOO worth of specimens which
were found under the floor of his house. That tiff
cost him seven years “ hard.”
* • * •
That rigid disciplinarian, the late N.S.W.
Roads-Commissioner Be.limit, once made an in-
spection of a dis-
trict, the officer in
charge of which
was suffering a re-
“ recovery.” The
official, still in
such a state that
any brand of chain -
lightning would
have been a god-
send, had to ac-
company Bennett
in a buggy, and
had hideous vi-
sions of a long dry
track, with no pull-
up for a drink. But
he was equal to the
occasion, and, as
the day advanced,
he passed f rom d u 1 1
to chatty—chatty
to frisky—frisky
to Bacchanalian ;
until his aston-
ished superior at
last said, “Why,
damn it, man,
you’re drunk! Where the devil did y ( > u
it ? ” Then Jones, with a fatuous grin, pulled from
his bosom a piece of fine rubber-tubing, trie other
end of which meandered down into a big square-
face” under the seat, and hospitably offered re-
freshment to his companion. When the chief
reached town the delinquent was informed that a
person of such ingenuity was wasting his time m
a soulless department that only wanted plain hard
work from its officials.
. * • ’
“Jim Pan”: Re illicit stills on the
Northern rivers. When I was a physical wreck
in the Big Scrub it was common talk that certain
well-knSwn publicans never bought any spirits
except illicit-still stuff. We used to see the full
beer barrels arriving and the empties returning,
but nary a case nor a keg of spirits. Drinking
this awful tipple was like swallowing a cat and
pulling her back by the tail—bite all the way
down, and scratch all the way back.
• * * *
For the other side “ Avonmore” writes:
Remarks as to the treatment of the working man in the
Nagambie (Vic.) district (11/l/’O2), are a bit strong. I em-
ployed four harvest hands at 6s. per day (stooking), said
dav from 7 o’clock until sundown. One man left because
he* could not get ham and eggs for breakfast every
morning.
“Will J.” : The Victorian Wimmera,
where formerly there were two selectors to the sq.
mile, and not one block that couldn’t boast a
humpy of some sort, is now “ anyhow.” Though
the country is cleared, considerably cleared, you
can ride for miles without seeing a house that isn’t
an empty relic of old times. Said country is in
the hands of the lucky percentage; t’other crowd
are scratching for duff in the blistered “Mawlee.”
■* * * •
“ Coo ee ”: Re strong men. Harry Shultz,
of Burragorang Mountain, was one Christmas
v in Henry Thompson’s mill, Camden
(N.S.W.). Two strong (?) men were
bursting themselves trying to lift a
2001 b. bag of flour into a dray, and
Harry was “poking it” at them.
Said Thompson, ‘ ‘ Harry, if you
can carry that bag of flour home
I’ll give it to you.” “ Aldth righdth,”
replied Shultz. Then he took up the bag
of flour and trotted off with it (flour at
that time was 465. percwt.). Thompson
and all hands followed, and when they
got to the next pub. Thompson offered to
shout for the crowd if Harry would
return the flour. But he wouldn’t. Two
of the men saw him right home (12 miles),
and he never once stopped or rested.
But Harry did better than that three
years after. He went to Narrellan race-
course, and was stopped at the gate for
Is. 6d. for himself and his 15-hands pony.
“Mein Glott!” said Harry, “I no got
von penny. Bud subbose you let me, I
ga/rry de horse in.” “Go ahead !” said
the gatekeeper, ironically. Then
Harry quietly got under the
middle of the mare and carried
her in bodily.
• * *
Dear Bulletin. —The Or-
nithorhynchus paradoxus can be
domesticated. My children have
one as a pet. Have duly notified
' Royal Society of this interesting cir-
cumstance, and that naturalists have
. overrated difficulties in the way of
observation of the life, habits and
peculiarities of this interesting mono-
-1 treme. The specimen my son cap-
tured and tamed is perfectly healthy,
a gentle pet, and, judging from spurs
attaohed to tarsi, is a male—a cock platypus, or
buck ornithorhyncus, or he-duck-billed-water-
mole, or whatever you choose to designate it.
Wonder whether McCooey, or the Billy man, or
other of your Aboriginally contributors ever
attempted to domesticate a platypus ?—J.C.R.
* * * *
“ Werrimee ” : The M'Gooey states (B.
25/l/’O2) that if ’roos lapped water it “would
infallibly have been recorded 100 years ago.” Yet
the animal’s mode of gestation wasn’t infallibly
recorded 100 years ago, and it was finally settled
at the London Zoo ! Also, a notion existed till
recent years that the ’roo struck the ground with
its tail when in flight. Also, we do not yet
know for certain to what age a kangaroo lives,
or when it ceases growing. Some natural-
ists state that ’roos can exist a considerable
time without water, and “travel long distances
when hard pressed.” Professor Owen theorises
that they were specially designed for the
great central deserts. As a matter of fact,
’roos perish very quickly in drought time,
and cannot travel long distances without frequent
rests and nourishment. When chased they can
go only half-a-mile at top-speed. As to the habits
of Mr. M‘Cooey’s “vast family of Herbivora.’
A cow laps her food, i.e., she rolls her tongue
round it; a horse uses his lips. When chewing
her cud, a cow works her jaws from one side only ;
a camel from left and right alternately. And
they all drink differently. Then why should
lapping be “foreign to the life history ” of the
’roo?) Again, in 8., 14/12/’Ol, M’Cooey states
that the only difference between ’roo and wallaby
This is a photo, of shod hoofs found on Mt. Morris (C.Q.) Statin. Only
one foot of each bullock had been shod. A tradition of the local Hacks gave
this as the locality where Leichhardt lost several bullocks shod on one foot.
is in the nostril interspace. Now, a full-grown
wallaby is only the size of a half-grown kangaroo.
They can be distinguished at sight; but handling
would be necessary to notice Mr. M'Cooey’s*
microscopic distinction.
# m * *
Dear Bulletin.— Says “Scutum” (8.,
25/l/’O2). “A curious (why “curious?”) one” (a
circular) was issued some time ago by the Secre-
tary for Lands to surveyors.and draughtsmen.
In it they were instructed that the word which
they had been in the habit of writing on plans as
ti-tree should in future be written tea-tree.”
(Hooray!) “It was also stated that said
tree derived its name from the fact that Captain
Cook once made tea from the leaves of one of the
kind. Who believes this ? ” Ido ; and it was I
who suggested to the Survey Department the
adoption of the correct spelling of the name.
Cook and his men did make tea out of the dried
leaves of this shrub, and called it tea - tree.
(Hooray !) There now ! —H. J. M‘C.
* * » »
“E.E.” : At Kogarah (N.S.W.) I once
saw a cat that rushed at and bit strangers like a
dog. The cat had been chained up for some time
for killing chickens; and being on the chain
seemed to have made it doggy in its habits.
NOTHING LIKE A
CHANGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Said he: “There’s nothing
like a change,
And I'll arrange
(Don’t think it strange),
To spend my holiday, next
year.
Up here
In Booligal with you, my
dear. ”
Said she; “ I quite agree with you
(I really do) :
I’ll take the thro’-
Express to town, this time next year,
From here
(There’s nothing like a change, my dear)!
TICKET-TAKER.


Inter-State Championship Band Contest
SOME INTERESTING PARTICULARS.
The Band Contest Art Union, which is being
extensively advertised just now, is conducted
under the auspices of the Band Association of
jj g.W.—the only body of its kind in the Com-
monwealth. Contest takes place Sydney Town
Hall, Jan. 25th and 27th. Prizes value £350.
Art Union drawing comes off Feb. 26th. First
four principal prizes: Gold Cornet, £lOO ; Victor
Piano, £5O; Kimball Organ, £25; Naumann
Bicycle, £2O. (By the way, there are some
“ melting moments ” awaiting that gold cornet.)
Price of Tickets, Is. Half profits divided amongst
public hospitals ; this in proportion to tickets sold
locally in each district and State. Mr. J. F. Bruee,
Hon. See., 305 Pitt-street, Sydney, will supply
private purchasers or intending agents on appli-
cation.*
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For GOUT and RHEUMATISM.
• Professor Immermann, Basle, Professor of Internal Medicine at the University—
'* Hunyadi Janos has invariably shown itself an effectual and reliable Aperient,
which I recommend to the exclusion of all others. Never gives rise to un-
desirable symptoms even if used continuously for years.”
Average Dose. —A wineglassful before breakfast , either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION.
Rote tho name “Httnyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
• ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Label.
“ Bilby ” writes about the out-back hotel :
Who can ever forget it? And, having seen one, you
have practically seen all. An ugly wooden building,
iron-roofed, and destitute of any kind of comfort. It is
generally dumped down in as open a space as possible, so
as to allow it to be easily seen, and it is exposed to the
blistering heat of the sun, as well as being a butt for every
whirlwind in the locality. Under the sweltering verandah
may generally be seen some recumbent forms sleeping off a
carouse. A few goats and a pet lamb or two*patter up
and down, and dart into any open door they can find.
A melancholy magpie stands on the edge of the verandah
gazing into space ; occasionally it lifts its head to whistle
the first line of “ Merrily danced the Quaker’s wife,” and
then relapses again into silence. The usual hotel cur is,
of course, there. His mission in life is to lie in wait for
any approaching horse or vehicle, and then fly out and
bark frantically ; and he is the cause of more shouts and
bad language than anything else on the premises. At
the back is the so-called stock-yard, the sliprails of which
all fit badly, and one broken one has been laboriously
spliced together with wire, although any number of
straight box saplings are growing close by. In the
killing-pen a miserable, panting sheep is generally
Standing awaiting its doom ; about sunset some
man will slouch across and cut its throat. The
lever for lifting the carcase into position for skinning
rests in the fork of a dead mulga, on the gaunt branches
of which several carrion crows sit all day waiting for the
entrails, whilst numerous evil-smelling heads, black with
ants, are lying all round. Several dirty, half-dressed
children, “ pure warrigals,” who all their lives have never
known anything beyond their own ugly surroundings, are
playing in the bed of a little adjacent creek which never
flows. Wife comes to the back door and yells to the eldest
girl, “ Mary, I want yer ; and tell Dan ’is father says ’e’s
to go and look for the ’orses.” Dan not making sufficient
haste, father himself comes to the door, dressed in a
dirty pair of colored moles and a Crimean shirt, and
bellows at his son, “ Dan, by cripes, if yer don’t shift
when I tell you, I’ll break your blanky back.” At the
out-back hotel, the dinner-hour, even in summer, is
about noon, when the almost vertical rays of a burning
sun in a greyish-blue sky make the iron roof like a grid-
iron (I don’t believe there is a hell ; I fancy the lost souls
sit in rows invisible on the roofs of our out-back hotels).
Blowflies, unable to bear the scorching sun, swarm inside
for shelter, and the house |hums like a hive of bees.
Every minute one of the flies plunges into the gravy, gives
a swirl, and expires. It is fished out with the iron spoon,
and the whole contents dashed on the floor with a curse.
Cup after cup of scalding hot tea is poured out
by the wife, and the perspiration rolls like
water off the faces and bare arms of the drinkers.
Between drinks, thev shovel down great mouthfuls
of tough, flabby mutton which, for the previous two
hours, has been slowly frizzling and spluttering in the
colonial oven. There are seldom any vegetables, but this
want is supplied by slices of bread soaked in gravy. The
gravy is trimmed and decorated with small flies. The
pudding, which follows, would be well suited for the
Antarctic regions—a heavy, indigestible stodge of flour.
The rest of the meals are very like the dinner. The days
are long in the out-back hotel, and the flies are broad,
and the hours are leaden, and the nights are hell, and all
day and all night the galvanised iron overhead creaks as
the lost souls shift about in search of a cool spot and
find it not.
* * *- *
“Spring”: Tn the bush near Appin
(N.S.W.) found a discarded black-snake skin, the
eyes, lips, mouth, and three-
fourths of fore-part of which
was in a perfectly unbroken
condition, and the whole was
turned inside out. The rear
portion was broken and had
a lot missing. Some bush-
men aver that a snake’s body
shrinks during winter, and he
backs out of the old skin
without damaging it.. But
what puzzles writer is how
this one turned thg skin out-
side in.
** r *
“ Yarrum ”: Once stop-
ped a night at aN.S.W. bush
pub., and had tea with the
family. We had just about
finished the meal, when a
shock-headed boy rushed in
with a bucketful of eels,
which he planked on the
table. Old looking stagers
they were, some of them.
One monster was as thick as
my forearm, and long to cor-
respond. “Did yer set ’im
agin?” asked the old woman,
and the lad assured her that
he was “set orlright.” Didn’t
wish to appear inquisitive,
but determined to keep a
watch on the river, which
was only a hundred yards
below the shanty. Walking
in the early morning, noticed
ing up a rope. Went up
there
boy haul-
and found
lie had landed the disembowelled carcase of a
Newfoundland dog, full of more eels. There was
stewed-eel for (but not for my) breakfast.
* * * *
“Rid”: The folly of paying men £1 per day
to fight bush-fires is beginning to dawn on the
squatters. The men who pay this are dead-sure
never to lack fires throughout the summer. Last
season one station holder near Jnnee (JN.b.\V.),
after having five outbreaks, was glad to advertise
in the local press that the £1 per day was oft.
Possibly, as a mere coincidence, the fires were
thenceforth also off.
* * * *
This is the record of a block in that suburb
of Gehenna which the Western (N.S.W.) Lands
Commission is to get £3500 a year for nursing
back to fruitfulness. In ’94 Weinter:ga, on the
.Darling, had 140,056 sheep to shear; from that
down the tallies have been: —127,393, 88,307,
75.116, 61,201, 30,065, 24,000. And, of course,
this doesn’t mean simply a loss of 116,000 sheep;
it means loss of the increase also. In 94 the
station paid £7060 in wages and shearing ex-
penses ; and that was about the average of the
past. Last year the same items totalled £2680.
We must look to the pious papers for the
refinement of newspaper-sweating. The Victorian
Wesleyan organ, the Spectator, offers a weekly
prize of a book valued at ss. for the best paragraph
of not more than 350 words. In one issue the
editor fills 2 pages with paragraphs sent in for the
competition, and thus pays at the munificent rale
of a ss. book (published price, perhaps. 2s. 6d.)
for 4-30 lines of matter—less than Id. for seven
lines.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
John Goff: Incidents, but no story Moorook:
Story of the iguana who drank Dungog rum and then
committed suicide too pathetic even for the Aborigin-
alitiescolumn... .T.B.M. : Certainly, if sent to this office.
.... M. : “ Derelict ” was not towed into Port Bulletin....
D.B.G. : “ A cheque, or a check ? ” Neither ; for, though
it’s hardly good enough, it’s not much amiss A.K. :
Material good, but you haven’t the graphic touch....
Johannes : You begin in the middle and end nowhere....
Sarah W. : Quite out of our line.... Mousie : Appropri-
ately squeaky.... Tam O’S : Sugar-coated, but a very
nasty pill all the same... .Liner : You’ve plenty of liter-
ary steam, but apparently very poor engines... .Silver :
Verse ordinary, and the island girl looks awful when she
grows old Frank A.: Destroyed accordingly....
Riverina: Poor stuff... .Gerald M. B. : Very stiff and
wooden....W. Neale: Hardly quality enough... .Wal-
laroo : Some strength, but hardly skill enough.... W.F.:
1; Can’t say—except that there were no R.C’s. on either
jury. 2 ; Lowest (white) wage before the war was £4 a
week. Can’t say what present rate is. 3 ; N 0... .Rupert:
Rubbish pure, and simple 1 Leo J. : Too formal and
academic... .Grant Hervey : Seems to be something in
the nature of an “ Answer to a Correspondent,” so it goes
in here :
....H.V.U. : Same trouble in each case. You wrote one
or two good verses Then you got tired, or the inspira-
tion gave out, and instead of patiently 'blasting a new
inspiration out of yourself you finished up anyh0w.......
Ahau : Will print “Rosemary and Rue.”. ...J.A.A.:
“Moralist” will just about pass J.J.B. : And if the
Federal capital is called “ Eureka,” as you suggest, will
its people be Eurekonians or Eurekes or Shrieks, or
what? R.G.: Hardly forcible enough to be worth
space....Wap : Verses have all the easy grace of a
camel racing home to dinner... .Alf. N.: Me “ G.G. s
WHEN
GALLANTRY IS PAINFUL.
WIZENED LITTLE REGINALD (who has been en-
joined to be always polite to ladies): “ Let
me offer you my seat, madam.”
Visit,” can’t suggest any improvement. Case too hope-
less . .R.J. : Much vigor and some promise, but too
much blanky Killaloe: One profound calm and one
dog-howl in distance. No, thanks T.H.M. : "Ballad
of K.K.” is a very moderate poem in an awful hand
Arcadia : Zulu story firmly declined Rabbits : A strong
incident, but no tale.... Moorooks : Ode asking Italy to
rise and rend her chains, beginning
“ Hail, classic bird of ancient Rome 1 ”
doesn’t seem to have any particular bearing on any
subject. Is Italy sitting down more than usual just now ?
. Heazle : Impossible to say ; probably not; he cer-
tainly hasn’t deserved to do so, because the last two
were very p00r.... Mabel: We don’t give any guarantee
as to that or any other advertisement, having no means
of testing the truth of statements made....B.D. (Fair-
field) : Send the story addressed to Editor, Bulletin
EP B • Not up Observer : Send to the Mail
Hillan'd : 30 straggling beery lines with not a sparkle
in o ne The Splinter : “ Bell ” has too small a tinkle....
M.D.: Rather below par Paul Mell: “ Superstitions ”
will do, with some slight alteration....L.M.C.: A hot,
weary struggle after tragedy A.W. : Don’t arrive
Milky White: Tale only leads up to illicit infant
Will J • Doolan’s nightmare is a rather slow old horse,
and gone in the feet....A.B.G. : Material for a good
story? but the way of telling it is fatal. You may
have material for a good table and make a very
bad gin-case out of it.... Jos. M.H. : Raw yarn about raw
beef J. Carew : Hardly worth while Magdalen G. :
A BIG ORDER.
“Are yer lookin' for sheavin'?” “ Yes. 'Ow many sheep yer got?”
“ Let me see. There's Molly, and Polly, and Dolly ” “ Struth!”
An unskilled hand... .Dora Me.: Insufferably prolix and
tedious M'Ginty : “ Down went M’Ginty I’’1 ’’
W.W.B. : How on earth can we tell till we’ve seen it?
M.’ Taring : Clever, but the theme is so well worn that
more than cleverness is required to give interest to its
treatment n0w,... Wonga : Opens well and then falls flat
—quite flat J.T.: (1) It is a matter for the State Par-
liaments. (2) Of Irish birth and family D.H.R. : Sen-
timent all right, but verse faulty—R. O’N. : Old Bulle-
tin story put into about the worst verse the sun ever
shone upon.. Ishmael: Another “Song of the Skirt”
already published.... A. B. John: Unpublishable
j.A.A.' : “ YVilliamsrust ” rather vague. Will print wreck
verses, with a little abbreviation S.C.H. : Words fail
to describe that poem....E. A. Phipson : Yes, but just
consider the absurdity of calling New South Wales
“Brightland” to “describe the aspect of the State”
when the same term applies equally well to Queensland,
Victoria, S.A., the Northern Territory, Westralia, Java,
Chili, Peru, Bolivia, Egypt, and dozens of other places.
However, call your country Slushland or Engslush if you
like (the “land” is absurdly superfluous and meaning-
less, for anybody can see it’s land) and we’ll consider
it Arcturus : Harmless idiocy W.D.F. : Thanks.
But, after all, the King’s personal likings don’t count for
much, politically Brenda : Theme very old and tired.
Max: Not good enough J.O.C. : Flabby and un-
wieldy Albar : Doesn’t quite get there Shem : Good
form, but no life or vigor Footback : Not much in it.
Brigida: Good versification of weak and watery
sentiment... .Schneider : There’s no such law. The
amount is a matter for a Vice-Admiralty court to fix
Martin 0. : Dreary drivel about nothing in particular.
Lucinda : Rather bright and chippy. May print
Sirion : A very old and highly-respected yarn W. Mac.:
Hopelessly prolix and prosy.... Dark-un : Can’t enlighten
you Cock-S. : You come out at the same logical
hole you went in at D.N.O. : Series of very large,
hard, improbable assertions Kitty C. : Too flimsy....
Rom: Metrical value not enough to discount fact that
all the nations of the earth play the same game and can’t
throw stones at Britain with any grace M.W. : Rather
too crude One-Eye : If—as you state—in that Aus-
tralian Bishop’s household, “ His Lordship’s daughters are
wont, in pa’s absence, to abandon dirge-like hymns and
s'.ng “ A little bit off the top,” The Bulletin is glad to hear
it; it shows they’re much nicer girls than a Bishop’s
daughters usually get the chance of being Tin :
Write less and ‘ better; batch sent rather du11....
Harry M‘l. : Thin poem and not clothed with ideas....
Ron. : If you mean to whitewash Herod the Great at the
expense of Kitchener it is better to go slow. Herod the
Great is about the largest whitewashing contract in his-
tory Austral: Possibly the man who says that the war
will last for years yet is just as badly informed as he was
two years ago when he said it would be over in six weeksu
....R.E.F. : “Frenchie” is a rather plain little episode.
.... Penny Royal: Very long. Much curse and little tale.
A.G.A.: “Home Lessons” decidedly heavy.... Helena
Vale : Of all the dim characters who ever wrote in faint
pencil on darned bad paper you are the dimmest Ben
Sun : Will print “ Cockies.” T’other doubtful—D.W.L.:
Leads to nowhere in particular Frank H.: Metaphors
very much mixed, and no definite meaning—only a gentle
easy flow of language like greased dictionary on down
grade Nymsie :If Ogilvie said the curlew follows the
winding creek the curlew has just got to follow it—even
if he does it in a bag carried by The Bulletin’s office boy.
T.G.F.: Too much like too many other lies
Shaughran : A wild-haired impossibility A Macallum :
Some good points amongst a general weakness Arline :
You write like an angel, but you don’t succeed in saying
anything Wanderer : “ Travelling West” has consider-
able crude merit, but skill is lacking.. ..F.W.J. : You
start out with too much sail, and you capsize at the end.
Brimmer : Romantic as brickbats !. .. .R.Y.: Can’t
read such ignominious scribble G. Gain : Something
good might be made of that idea, but you haven’t made
ft Wanderer: All the conventional old “ props ”in it
—wild bull, fainting girl, love, wicked rival, &c. No,
thanks.... RitaS. (Rochester): “ Our Girl ”is good. Will
print . Andys: “Love’s Eyes” just miss the mark
John Polding: Very good. Will print....D.A. : Don’t
care for verses that have been already published else-
where .S.C.O.J. : Will print “She and I.” Doubts
about “ Difference.”.... G. T. : Feel rather like printing
“Reward.” E.G.C. : Stereotyped poem—river, horse,
breeze, mopoke, cattle—all the old sundries Croll N. :
Well told, but theme poor, old and hackneyed... .Alone :
Good lines in “ Wayfarers,” but too rugged as a whole
T.H.M. : Very indefinite. The pretty poem that
is about nothing in particular gets in occasionally when
we aren’t looking. We were looking this time
R.G.H. : Rather watery humor...: Tim O‘C.: The dialect
would block it, even were it otherwise suitable... .Helen
O. : Some graphic power, but hardly skill enough
GBL. : “Sparks” has too much Hibernian lingo. Will
consider the other.... Arthur F. : Great cry and little
wool' Maud: Pleasing little jingle Kariana: Un-
pleasant subject, inadequately handled... .Argosy : Foun-
dered with all hands.. ..Darby : You’ve straws in your
literary hair ! H.A.B. : Could have gone in quarter of
the space J.C.O. : But Christianity, by its fanatical
opposition to classic culture, directly caused the “ dark-
ness ” of the Middle Ages, and retarded the progress of
civilisation by eight centuries or so Sturge : Both the
old and the new signalling-codes were used during 1901,
but the new code became compulsory on Jan. 1, 1902....
Owen K. : Inconsequent and flapdoodlish... .Marta :
Neat, trim, prim, bub stale, flat and unprofitable
O.W.S. : A man isn’t necessarily an admirable person be-
cause he has risen from the army ranks. He sometimes
is only allowed to rise from the ranks because he is strong
and is an enemy of his own class... .R.A.K.: Story of Bill
in Sheol too—too strong G.8.L.: “ Destroying Angel ”
hung in the balance. Then the other scale went down
and “Destroying Angel” went up....H.G. : Poem in
15 hiccoughs soberly declined E.W.: Of course, Rook-
wood (N.S.W.) Asylum is inconvenient to inmates’ friends
living at Bourke or Armidale, who wish to pay them a
visit. But in what spot would it be more convenient ?
. ...H.M.H. : First verse (which is far the best) is too
reminiscent of other poetic versions of same idea....
Prospect Good: Shows some imagination and an occa-
sional happy phrase, but, on the whole, too crude
Lone Star : You twinkle too faintly Blackbut: A vast
area of unusable matter. Try and write less and better.
... .Tony : Never any good prophesying for the year 2001,
except for a man like Methuselah... .Kola : Give your
lead pencil a tonic ; it is weak and fading away, and
the effort to read it gives us spots before the eyes.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
A.O.T. : The two poorest jokes we remember,...D.S.
(Nhill): None useful Ben S. : Too suggestive
F.F.F. : Do try something obviously Australian. And
you can easily overdo the shadow business which makes a
paper too splodgy... .Benison ; Won’t do Seaweed:
Sorry, but we have no use for nice blue landscape done on
an envelope H.P. : Impossible to judge from sample
whether boy has any real talent or not C.S. : Stale—
and unusable anyhow... .Nell C.N. : Will have to be re-
drawn ; memo, posted,...C. Breeze: Nautilus idea too
meagre....A.E.S. (Vic.): No hope....J.g No. 2: Hope-
less drawing, hopeless subject... .H. Ford : Have hardly
point enough Plymouth Sound :No show.
Apropos of the teeth and whiskers of dead
Boers brought to Australia as trophies by returned
cohen tingenters, here is a copy of a letter written
by a British officer to the British Governor of
Canada 119 years ago. At this time Britain and
the United States were in the midst of the War
of Independence, and Britain was employing the
Indians as their allies. The allies were evidently
anxious to show that they were attending care-
fully to business: —
Tioga, January 3rd, 1782.
May it Please Your Excellency,—
At the request of the Seneca chiefs, I hereby send to
Your Excellency, under the care of James Boyd, eight
packages of scalps, cured, dried, hooped, and painted,
with all the Indian triumph-marks, of which the follow-
ing is an invoice and explanation :
No. I.—Containing 43 scalps of Congress soldiers, killed
in different skirmishes. These are stretched on black
hoops, 4in. in diameter, the inside of the skin painted
red, with a small black spot, to note their being killed
with bullets ; also 62 of farmers killed in their houses, the
hoops painted red, the skin painted brown, and marked
with a hoe, a black circle all around to denote their being
surprised in the night, and a black hatchet in the middle
signifying their being killed with that weapon.
No. 2.—Containing 98 of farmers killed in their houses,
hoops red, figure of a hoe to mark their profession, great
white circle and sun to show that they were surprised in
the daytime, a little red foot to show that they stood
upon their defence, and died fighting for their lives and
families.
No. 3. —Containing ninety-seven of farmers ; hoops
green, to show that they were killed in the fields; a large
white circle, with a little round mark on it, for the sun,
to show it was in the daytime ; black bullet mark on
some, hatchet on others.
No. 4.—Containing 102 of farmers, mixed of several of
the marks above, only 18 marked with a little yellow
flame to denote their being of prisoners burnt alive after
being scalped, their nails being pulled out by the roots
and other torments. One of these latter, supposed to be
an American clergyman, his hand being fixed to the hoop
of his scalp. Most of the farmers appear by the hair to
have been young or middle-aged men, there being but 67
very gray heads among them all, which indices the service
more essential. , .
No."s.—Containing 88 scalps of women ; hair braided
in the Indian fashion, to show they were mothers ; hoops
blue, skin yellow ground, with little red tadpoles, to
represent by way of triumph the tears or grief occasioned
to their relation's ; a black scalping-knife or hatchet at
the bottom to mark their being killed by those instru-
ments ; 17 others have black hoops, plain brown color,
no mark but a short club or coup-tete, to show they
were knocked down dead or had their brains beat out.
No. 6.—Containing 190 boys’ scalps of various ages ;
small green hoops, whitish ground to the skin, with led
soars in the middle, and black marks, knife, hatchet, or
club, as their death happened.
No 7.—Containing 211 girls’ scalps, big and little ;
small yellow hoops, white ground, tears, hatchet, clubs,
scalping knife, &c.
No. B. This package is a mixture of all varieties above
mentioned to the number of 122, with a box of birch bark
containing 20 little infants’ scalps of various sizes ; small
white hoops, white ground, no tears, and only a little
black knife in the middle to show they were ripped out of
their mother’s bellies.
A copy of “A Policy for the Common-
wealth,”' The Bulletin’s particularly suc-
cessful pamphlet, will be po ted from this office to
any Australian address on receipt of Bd. in stamps
of any State).
THE EDITOR.
“Your villanelles are villainous,”
The editor, he said ;
“ Your triolets are fillin’ us
With longing to be dead—
Your odes are wholly villainous ! ”
(The speaker’s hair was red).
“ I must write or bust,” the poet-man
S lid sadly in reply ;
“ ‘Tis Fate’s own boat, and row it, man,
I must, e’en tho’ I die.
Must write or bust! ” The_ poet-man
Here sniffed and piped his eye.
He was a heartless editor,
This one—unbowell6d —
He’d make a grasping creditor
(His hair, I said, was red).
He was a heartless editor,
And—“ Don’t Bust Here !” he said.


.*o.****
iecofl^ 8 '
f TO TIIB EDITOR.
Sir, —Now that a fresh enrolment of
our countrymen for the South African
war is taking place, I venture to suggest
thit a few sharp dogs should be, sent to
act as watchdogs with the men on piequet
-duty, and also for use in cattle raids.
Dogs are trained for use in the French
and German armies, and
there is no reason why they
should not, be made service-
able to our own contim
gent. —Yours, etc.,
( T.E.W.I
Telegraph.
UNDERTAKERS’ ASSISTANTS’ WAGES.
conditions under which the undertakers’ assistants
t n ” r of lh PnnC T ] business for consideration at a
meeting of the union last night. It was reDorted that
'T/STh Unior l Were Ca " ed "P° n 10 7O
100 hours per week, at wages varying from £1 to £2
in their j 6e *' the members were unanimous
cessions dS ' and 'determined to secure con-
M
/k&
jyfj r'#
G. H. REID’S “SPLENDID OFFER."
Uko. Rkio to Commandant : “ Look
here, I want to send my celebrated Dry
Dog to fight for the dear Old Land. If
I get that High Cominissionership I shall
not require him, only ” (dropping a
tear or two) “promise me to keep jc
. him in a dry place ! ” X 5
LooK Q* t hi j
fIcTORB
And on i
Th^W
'Undertaker’s Assistant (who,
with his mate, has “ promptly
executed ” an order): “ I
never look upon a body
without envy. How rest*
ful not to have to work
for 100 hours a
week! ”
“Prime Minister Barton and Premiet
Seddon are to be Royal guests at the
coronation, The other leading Aus-
tralasian political officials will not.”
If See and Peacock go, for example,
they will be turned out to grass, as it
were while Barton and Seddon will
feed from the hand ” of Joe
tain.
Last evening a gentleman
purchased in the city an
evening paper from a newsboy, about 12 years of
age, on the distinct assurance from the lad that it
was the latest edition. Finding he had bepn
deceived, the gentleman warned the boy of what
would be the fate of liars, according to the Bible,
I “The Bible?’’ inquired the boy; “what’s the
Bible 1 ” On being cross-questioned, lie declared
that he had never heard of such a book. —Svdnev
Daily. *
The Bulletin’s Religious Editor; “Shock-
ing! Shocking! But what shall be said of the
depravity of a 1 gentleman ’ who has heard of the
Bible, and yet buys and reads evening papers.”
A correspondent writes
to direct the attention of
the police to the presence
of a band of ruffian's who
frequent Hyde Park, Sydney,
and set fire to persons sleeping there.
The obvious remedy for this is to
arm the police with fire-extinguish-
ing apparatus.
ADMIRAL O'SULLIVAN (HIS MUDSCOW FLEET).
State Minister for Works O Sullivan points out that the Department of Works
in this State now controls the working of 1 1 ladder dredges, 18 sand pump dredges,
10 grab dredges, 20 tugs, and 80 hopper punts. On these 450 men are employed
. ! . lt !l „ n annual cost of over £lOO,OOO. This dredging plant, valued at about, £500,000.
•is distributer! aiyng tlib cqs&L of tlie Steite from the Tweed River to Moruya


—CD
‘ 4 °a 0
The State Premier was yesterday the recipient,
of an unusual present in the shape of a scarf
.pin, sent to him by a workman who has been
‘'benefitted by the Factories Act. The donor
wrote:—“ Dear Mr. Peacook, —Having got a 3/
rise in my wages last Saturday through the oper
ation pf the Factories and Shops Act, I take the
liberty of sending you a little gift, as a token
of my gratitude for your noble efforts and aots.
and the benefits which you have bestowed upon
thousands like myself, who are struggling for an
existenoe, with wives and families, at the foot of
the social standard. May your term of Premier-
ship last so long as* to onable you to bestow many
moTe such blessings as you have already accom-
plished for those who were not able to help them-
selves.” •
4 s so
ls ),K«ly
l 'io Itvcfalor
f& is iFci'c f 2> *
J&kV* ¥r^
a, little "ISKen of
o ,o®' V €? “'
.„c* „es» j?.®' .' p OP®®
„ a,»
it, G** s Z\
Z or*,** * Ipv'
g=-- Roy&i
0»r j v
u v ;; '>' s ,
"n'ti i
0. V"% -tS„ So |,j J
r e slj wouIJ h7eltl_
While engaged in “t Monday,
oeiving-houae for (Mr. Tren-
near Royal-pork, the ntf . Aid Society’s
withl paid a vi much struck
Hon>e m the .o«*t, h H^ an / the attention
with the comfort of the P Inquiry wont ,
«i~ » ‘ h ° “If m !" ■ WelTand ecLom.cally
to show that the inst.tut* : nforme d that last
s£-sHi=sssr :
■ L°y^l's'r^ l ' 5 ' r rr A|
, if m *-r e < t Let WwKf
c,r ?«' # ■ ■
4^
?£*<*. £ clothe 'e*? &V"'.
liKe CoeKs ! t^ul^
>S n 7 os+' '^i'A't'ifyi7^
VN
xS L ><4^
,R\ Bl 'iV
\k\rj Villie "fo t e
* Deface oj- fys
*l7l ?7 7.
SOME MELBOURNE VISIONS AND HAPPENINGS.


A. SAUNDERS’
WATCHES, CLOCKS. JEWELLERY, & SILVERPLATE AT FREETRADE PRICES
SAVE 25 TO 50 PER CENT. SHOWROOMS : 815 GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
A. SAUNDERS.
t O'CLOCK CAKE FORKS, Pure Silver-plate
on Hard White Metal, in Silk-lined Case, 20s.
Similar style, 12s 6d.
These will last your lifetime.
A. SAUNDERS. -
DINNER CRUET, 6 Bottles, with Shield, Pure
Silver-plate on White Hard Metal.
A Useful and Serviceable Article, £2 10s.
Other styles, £2, £3, £4.
A. SAUNDERS’ LATEST STYLE.
FRUIT or CAKE STAND,
Silver-plated Stand with Fancy Glass, 80s.
Similar Stand, 27s 6d.
A. SAITNDEBS.
ELOWEB STAND, Silver-
plated Base, 8s 6d per pair.
Larger styles, 12s 6d, 15s 6d, 21s.
Choice Table Appointments.
A. SAUNTERS.
Solid Silver Swan PIE,
7»iid
A. SAUNDERS.
QS.—CANDLESTICK, Pure
Silver-plated, 8s 6d each.
Similar Pps’sm=. 12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAL.NUiiIiS.
BOAP BOX, Silver-plated, Nicely
Chased and Embos-ed. 12s (id.
FREE TRADE PRICES.
A. SAUNDEES.
EGG CEUET, very neat, effective, 4 Cups
and Spoons, Eure Silver-plated on White
Nickel Silver, 20s. Other styles and
patterns, 255, 30s, 355, £2, £2 10s.
HOT WATER KETTLE and STAND.
r 'an be used as a Teapot. Pure Silver-
! plated on White Metal, Beautifully
Chased and Ornamented, £2.
Embossed and Extra Chased, £2 10s.
Other Styles, £3, £3los.
Handsome and Useful Article.
A. SAUNDERS.
“ LADIES’ FRIEND,” Pure Solid Silver
mounted, 18s 6d ; Smaller, 15s 6d.
A Nice Present.
4. SAUNDERS.
LUNCHING CRUET, 4 Bottles,
Silver-plated, 15s 6d. Very Pretty.
df
SPECTACLE
CHATELAINE
CASE,
Solid Silver, 30s, £2.
Silver-plated, 12s 6d.
Send for list.
Other lines,
2s 6d, 4s 6d, 6s 6d,
10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Cut Glass Sterling Silver-
mounted
HAIRPIN HOLDER, ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
.XTREE DISH, makes two Dishes,
plated on White Nickel Silver,
Other styles, £2 10s to £6.
pure Silver-
40s.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM or BUTTER KNIVES,
Silver-plated, Nicely Chased,
2s, 2s fd, 3s, 3s 6d, 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDiittS.
Gent’s TICKET or WALLET
CASE,
7s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
uumnimmmwmuumm
.Hi
A. SAUNDERS.
TWELVE 4 O’CLOCK TEA SPOONS and TONGS, in Silk-lined
Case Very Best Pure Silver-plated, 355. Similar, 80s, £2, £2 10s.
Six in Case and Tongs, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
CAKE KNIVES or FORKS, 20s, 255, 80s, £2. Latest London Rage.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Solid Silver HAIR BRUSH, in Silk-lined Case, as above, 80s.
Similar Styles, without case, 15s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
4 O’CLOCK TEA SET, with Covers, Gilt inside, pure Silver-plater
20 Years’ Guarantee, £2 10s ; worth £4 4s.
Other styles, £2, £3, £4.
T A TAT XT' Ol KINDLY CALL AND
see OUR DISPLAY.
A. SAUNDERS
CARD RECEIVER, Latest Style.
Pare Silver-plated and Ornamented, 20s. VERY CHOICE.
A. SAUNDERS.
THREAT) BOARD and KNIFE, Pure Silver-plated on Hard
Nickel Silver, Beautifully Chased and Ornamented, 355.
Can be used as CAKE DISH or SALYER.
Similar styles, 21s, 255, 30s, £2, £2 10s. A-Useful Present.
SUGAB SCUTTLE, Squa.
Handsomely chased and finis]
pure Silver-plated, 21s.
A Nice Present.
Other styles, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDEES.
FIELD and OPEEA GLASSES,
First-class Lenses, Good Effect,
12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255, 80s, £2,
£2 10s, £3, to £l2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Sterling Silver CIGARETTE
CASE, SOVEREIGN PURSE, and
MATCH BOX combined, Handsomely
Chased, in Silk-lined Case, £2 10s.
Other styles, 30s, 355, 40s.
h
iy
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER DISH, White Glass, Pure
Silver-plated, 15s 6d: larger size, £l.
Other Designs, 255, SOs, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class Silver-plated CRUET,
as above, 21s.
Jbtfajumdety
LONOONSiSVDHtT
H
wm
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER KNIEE and JAM SPOON,
in Silk-lined Case, the Very Best Silver-plate,
Nicely Chased, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s,_ 20s.
Send for Illustrated Price List.
A. SAUNDERS.
SAT.T CELLARS, 7s 6d, 8s 6d,
10s 6d, with Spoon.
T Hls
little
PIG
MA
A. SAUNDERS. .
Child’s SPOON, Solid Silver. Chased, 7s 6d. The Very Latest and Newest Designs.
H.J. COOP^&S
A SAUNDERS.
TEA IXFUSER, to make a Cup of Tea, Silver-plated, 3s 6d and 4s Od. . Very Useful.
A. SAUNDERS.
Sterling Silver-mounted Paris Panel PHOTO. FRAMES,
85s, 40s, 50s each.
SS’RfWS
we
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class 4-Bottle CRUET,
Silver-plated, 85s Similar, 255, 30s.
Pm
tm
m
m
A. SAUNDERS.
TOAST RACK, Pure Silver-plated,
in Every Style and Shape,
12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s. A Nice Present.
A. SAUNDERS. r
CAKE BASKET. Pure Silver-plated, Hand-chased
and Embossed, as above, £4.
Similar patterns, 20s, 255, 30s, £2.
g
A. SAUNDERS.
TEAPOTS, very pretty and useful, Pure Silver-
plated, Hand Chased and Ornamented, ’/Is. Utner
styles and patterns, Us 6d. 20s, 255, 30s, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS. ,
Silver-plated HAIRPIN TRAY, Pierced and Engraved, 4s ««•
Pure Silver BOOK MARK, 2a 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
OAK BISCUIT,
Silver-plated, Fluted rims,
with enamelled inside, ‘2os ;
plain rims, 15s.
F\oral China same price.
A. SATINDEBS.
PUFF BOX, Pure Solid Silver, Pretty ana
Ornamental, 255.
Silver-plated on White Metal, 17s 6d.
Glass Bottom and Pure Silver Top,
10s, 15s, 20s, 255.
A, SAUNDERS
JEWELLER arid SILVERSMITH
®gg“A BEAUTIFUL lIA LAY OF PRESENTS.
Mind. 815 GEORGE-STREET.
NEARLY OPPOSITE
RAILWAY STATION,
SYDNEY


, Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
&
0
BILLS
DISCOUNTED-
3xr.s,"W.
Blunt deplete DJI. Co., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
•74 CASTLEREAGH ST., *7A.
SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
'-THE-.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. RobrrtS,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller,
Accumulated Funds, £2,491,989.
Policies issued 85,372 — assuring £26,085,340,
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,576,850.
Polities Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—eouitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
The gank of ||ortli Queensland
LTMITEI).
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director - JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philpfe Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capita! Paid-up ... £lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250 900 ... £350,000
Queensland Smelting Qompg.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
■D Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, api ly to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
gem Zealand Insurance Co.
FIRE and MARINE.
CAPITAL £1,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES .. 420,000
Largest Colonial Company.
J. A. MINNETT,
Manager.
81 Pitt St., Sydney.
Tb« Trustees, €*€c<itorS,
AND
BgsiKV Conjpaoy Lirpited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP ... ... ... £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) . £BB5B 7 3
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 30th June, 1901 i'6,388,976 5 3
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMITED.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £385,187
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 245,119
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 55,000
£685,306
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Ass. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE : 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capil al payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital
£2,500,000
Hank of 'New South Wales,
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGS STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
2,000,000 0 0
1,270,000 0 0
2,000,000 0 0
Total 5,270,000 0 0
Directors :
Hon. Chas. K. Mackkllar, M. L.C., President.
Senator Jambs Thomas Walker.
William Alfrkd Cottf.e, Esq.
Richard Bin me, Esq.
Hon. Henry Normand MacLaurin, M.L.O.
Hon. Reoinald James Black, M.L O.
Auditors :
A. G. Milson, Esq. j. s. Harrison, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
Tae Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
Shipping.
HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Leura, Saturday, Feb. 1,12 Noon.
-Gabo, Tuesday, Feb. 4, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, Feb. 8,12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Undaunted, Tuesday, Feb. 11,5 p.i
(Cargo Only).
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Undaunted, Tuesday, Feb. 11, 6 p.
(Cargo Only).
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Peregrine, Sat., Feb. 1,12 Noon.
Konoowarra, Tues., Feb. 4, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, Feb. 8, 12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Peregrine, Safe., Feb. 1,12 Noon.
Leura, Saturday, Feb. 8,12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT i ]
GERALDTON }
CAIRNS, &c. (
Lass o’ Qowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves —Foot of King-street.
WHITE STAR LIME.
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
MEDIO, on or about 19th FEBRUARY.
AFRIO, SUEYIO, PERSIC, and RUNIO
to follow.
FARES—Capetown
London
New York, &c.
£l3 13 0 to £2l 0 0
16 3 5 to 24 6 1
22 611 to 30 7 7
Only One Class of Accommodation-
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
Kuddart, parker & Co’ B C' ne
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
_A_ 3XT n>
A
LINE
via
San Francisco,
California.
SPLENDID NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS,
SIERRA
SONOMA
VENTURA
Over 6000 Tons each.
8000 H.P.
Length, 426 feet,
Passengers booked through to American, Canadian and
European centres at current rates.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
OCEANIC STEM MSHIP CO., LTD.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTI).,
Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts. SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
IN CONNECTION WITH
CANADIAN-PACIFIC RAILWAY.
THE “ALL-RED” ROUTE.
STEAMERS SAIL—
January 28, February 25, March 25
Reduction in Rates to London.
First Saloon, £55- Return, £lOO
Second „ 35- „ 61 10s-
ROCKY MOUNTAINS,
NIAGARA PALLS, QUEBEC,
CHICAGO, NEW YORK, &c.,
Seen en route.
LUGGAGE CHECKED TO ENGLAND
WITHOUT TROUBLE OR EXPENSE.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums ot £lOOO to £15,000, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties,
and £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
The Commercial Ranh inf/ Company
of Sydney, Limited .
Capital Paid-up ' £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,010,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
G. J. Cohen, Esq Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.C. Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
E. W. Knox, Esq.
Auditors :
E. S. Cape, Esq. Hon. F. T, Humphery, M.L.C.
Hea,d Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager : T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, 11. H. Massie,
VV. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin-Lane
Directors: Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G; F. H.
Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq. ; Hon. H S
Littleton Manager, Nathaniel Cork
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
i>"d in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
Ocean
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. o / London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. of the Colonies.
Directors—Sydney : Sir W. M'Millan, Hon. A. W. Meeks.
Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq. Wellington * h.
Beauchamp, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlank ; Brisbane, K. Wilson; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar ; Wellington, N.Z., C. M. Montefiore.
j. J, ALLEN. General Manager for Australasia-,
131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
TIME TABLE.
THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
3XT. D. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
*Twin screw.
Leaving MELBOURNE Wednesday after Sydney.
REGULAR SERVICE to SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW
GUINEA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. STETTIN, 2478 Tons,
LEAVING SYDNEY ON 20th FEBRUARY.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
Public Companies.
United i o sc.raW co.
(LIMITED.)
Head Office:
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS
SYDNEY.
CAPITAL £500,000.
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, etc. Rents also assured.
Marine Kisks
on Wool, Merchandise, Hulls
of Vessels, Freights, Passage
Money, etc.
Rates very how,
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
The Ballarat School of Mines.
mHIS SCHOOL, with its large staff and very
JL extensive appliances, affords special advan-
tages to students desirous of obtaining a Diploma
in Mine Engineering or Metallurgy, or Certifi-
cates as Mine Manager or Assayer, or of gaining
special instruction in any other subjects apper-
taining thereto —
Chemistry, Metallurgy, Geology, Mining
Engineering, Surveying, Electrical Engi-
neering, Mathematics and Physics.
Duties resumed 3rd FEBRUARY.
Prospectus on application.
FRED. J. MARTELL,
Director.
Business Announcements.
Butter Cooler and Meat Safe
Reduces the temperature
15 degrees by capillary
action of water.
Price - - -5/- each
Postage, 1/- extra.
ICE-CREAM
FREEZERS
which require no labor,
15/- each;
postage, 1/6 extra.
Send for Catalogue.
Brandt Bros,
fgf
.236 PITT STREET,
And at 422 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
SYDNEY
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
B.S. Rockton,
Friday, January 81.
S.S. Marloo,
Saturday, February 1
(without transhipment).
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oairns
S.S. Adelaide, (Oapt. D. P.
Davies), Saturday, Feb. 1.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A.U.S.N. Co. and Howard Smith Co.,
Ld. For Adelaide and W.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. 3. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY^
A- U. S. IM. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LTNE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE -Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Maokay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bril
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, AND FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Passenger Accommodation , Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO, Ltd., Agents, 1(1 Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
P AND O. COMPANY’S
** ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-kriot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B 10s to £/7
Ditto Ditto Return, £7llos to£l2l
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific, and
Messageries Maritimes Steamers having room.
EDWARD TRELAWNY,
63 Pitt-street. Superintendent in Australia.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
j Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Office*
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
“E. ANP A.” LINE.
. . to . .
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with EVERY CON-
VENIENCE FOR TROPICAL TRAVELLING.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of 'America and Europe at special rates in con-
junction with the Canadian-Pacific and other Steamship
Companies.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
miluiraith.ni'Eacharn&CO'
PROP. LTD.
THE FAVORITE STEAMERS
KALGOOBLIB, 4500 TONS,
COOLGABDIE, 3500 TONS,
SAIL FORTNIGHTLY between
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, and
West Australian Ports.
Passenger Accommodation Unsurpassed. Liberal Cuisine.
M’ILWRAITH, M'EACHARN AND CO.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany and Fremantle
Sydney Agents—BUßNS, PHILP & CO. Ltd.
“GENTS A''*-
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address.— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
A POLICY FOR THE"^ 4 '-
Price 6i1.;
Posted, Bd.
commonwealth


A FREE VETERINARY BOOK.
. Amost useful Veterinary Bookis attached
to every bottle of Condy’s Fluid. This Book
contains instructions for curing most of the
ailments and accidents affecting Horses,
Dogs, Sheep, Cattle and Poultry,
i Eminent Veterinary Surgeons recom-
mend Condy’s Fluid as an absolutely
certain cure for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs,
Broken Knees, Grease, Thrush and
Cracked Heels in Horses—Scab,. Foot
Rot, Fly, etc., in Sheep —Hoove, Foul in
the Foot, Wounds and Sores in. Cattle.
Condy's Fluid is made by Condv &
Mitchell, Ltd., of 65, Goswell Road,
London, England, and is sold by all
Chemists and Stores. Beware of Colonial
substitutes. Insist on having Condy’s Fluid.
g
GrO TO ECEX.L-
KiOl.AM* for Pretty Stomps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
71 Elizafceth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price*
lists gratis.
HATS.
HATS.
Mountcastle & Quaitis
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes tatted with this
valuable invention.
catalogue to B. MountGastie & Sons,
BRI 38A.3XT8.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTCR BRADLCY » CO.,
J-'urniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Roomi, 32j. George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION &. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
It is the most reliable and the best
preparation for the hair, you can obtain,
no years success proves this. It
PRESERVES THE HAIR
restores it when thin or withered, cur"'
baldness, eradicates scurf, is special
adapted for Ladies*and Childrens’ Ha.- A
and is also sold in a
GOLDEN COLOUR
for fair or grey hair, which dees not
stain or darken the hair, or linen.
Sold by Stores or Chemists. Ask for
Rowlands, 67, Hatton Garnen, London.
SIMPSON’S SULKIES & BUGGIES
Good Work
Lowest Price
Cash Only
Factory and Showroom: 73 KING STREET NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Maorihind’s meat export trade, is looking
up again. Including beef, mutton and conti.n-
ge its, the exports for 1901 must have been above
the average.
Kipling left it on record that most British
soldiers were liars and half of them were thieves.'
When the boss Jingo poet is allowed to publish
slanders like that, why get so angry when a
German says the same thing ?
It is connu'only reported that Weary Willie
Trenwith will Be compelled to retire from the
Peacock Ministry before Vie. State Parliament
re-assembles, and that Gurr, the ridiclilo'us Minis-
ter. for Education, has also received his-notice.to
quit.
The inquiry re the stranding of Duke of the
Devonshire, near Thursday Island, showed that
the third officer wanted the chart, but didn't send
to .the captain for it. The quartermaster was a
negro, and as the officer put it : “ I couldn’t send
a black man to the captain’s cabin.”
Mr. William Lyne, speaking in regard to
the Federal Capital question :
Some hon. members have asked me to pay .their ex-
penses to visit the sites singly,. I have refused, for no
money must he wasted on this -business. .
The never-ending audacity of elected persons !
Hopetoun, Cardinal Moran. Philp and
Brisbane Chamber of Commerce all profess them-
selves disappointed with the results of the first
session of the Federal Parliament. Secular toffs
■ and sacerdotal toffs may be disappointed, but the
Australian Democracy (especially in the North)
is rejoicing greatly.
Malcolm M‘Eacharn wished to know if
Premier Barton would inform the British authori-
ties that the local Government would provide
transports for the Federal contingents? Local
FOR BETTER OR WORSE.
MRS. O'TOOLE (to neighbor): “ Sind out yer owld mahn an ’ be
Hivins av Oi can’t pulverise the six Jut av misery, me’usband
will.”
MR. O'TOOLE (four foot . nothing): " Mary Ann , av it’s me insur-
ance money yer a fther say so, an’ Ot’ll commit suicoide some
other way than foightin' an’ over-grown giant!”
Govt, providing transports means cash for the
local shippers, and —well, M'Eacharn is a local
shipper as well as a patriot.
Premier Philp is rushing round Queens-
land advising deriioeratie constituencies to -drop
the Kanaka question, as it is now definitely
settled, and imploring others (especially in sugar
districts) to rise in their wrath and reverse the
verdict of the Federal elections on the Kanaka
question when the democratic constituencies aren’t
looking.
Yic. Assembly is mostly disposed to sym-
pathise with Trenwith in his attitude towards his
billet. When all the other members of the
Government agreed to place their resignations
with Premier Peacock and leave that troubled
cachinnator to throw ’em out, or keep ’em in, at
boss Syme’s bidding, Trenwith asserted his own
thorough approval of himself by declining to join
the movement. Trenwith took his stand on the
assumption that he couldn’t possibly be replaced
by a more desirable Minister of Railways. Hence
the foaming wrath of boss Syme’s newspaper.
A Sydney man, whose Rocks house (which
he personally occupied) was resumed, has been
charged by the State, since the date of resump-
tion, with rent on an 8 per cent, basis. He is to
be allowed, some day, interest on the value, on a
4 per cent, basis. And even with such Shylock
methods N.S. W. Government can’t pay its way.
Senator Pearce: “This war is more
humane than any recorded in history. I have
never read of an enemy that cared for the wives
and children of its opponents,” And a soldier
hoy at a concentration camp complains: “Soldiers
they call us ! we’re only undertakters.” Service
in South Africa is largely burial-service nowadays.
The cost of entertaining the Yorks in
Westralia amounts to the nice little fortune of
£39,000. Amongst the items are champagne,
£l3Ol, and timber £12,000. And now there is the
usual squalid row about ;|he bill, and the u i al
howls and recriminations, and the demand of Potts
and Slurk for an inspection of each other’s
accounts.
Molh. Herald announces that its weekly
edition publishes some of the “objectionable and
slanderous ” German cartoons, and, to further
stimulate buyers, declares them to be “ horrible
specimens.” And how it cursed Findley when
•that Labor member’s paper published a certain
libel on King Edward and declared it to be a
horrible specimen’?
Majority of officers’ appointments in the
Maoriland eighth contingent are purely politi-
cal, and returned non-coms., refused commissions,
are cursing wildly. A 17-year-old youth, earning
15s. a week as junior clerk has received, a lieuten-
ancy, and a clerk of the court on Seddon’s beloved
coast, who is alleged to know nothing of drill,
is also pitchforked into the officers’ mess.
In the corruption of Brisbane lies the
strength of the Philp Government. Note the
way public money is lavished in Queensland’s
metropolis: Central Railway Station, ,£40,000;
new Lands Office, £170,000 : tank engines (stored
, away as useless), £76,000 ; strengthening suburban
lines to bear the tank engines, now stored away as
useless, £lOO,OOO. All this infacemf a tremendous
deficit !
When the humorous N.S.W. contingent
was, despatched to China last year, a great row
arose over the appointment as “assistant-pay-
masters” of one reporter each from the two
Sydney morning newspapers. Incredible though
it sounds, there is reason to believe that one paper
at least almost succeeded in achieving a similar
coup in connection with the forthgoing Common-
wealth contingent.
Joseph Chamberlain’s latest
(cable report):
“ The affection and confidence of
our kinsfolk across the seas are more
important to us than the goodwill
of foreigners.” After eulogising- Mr.
Seddon’s denunciation of the pro-
Boer critics, who were the real cause
of Iforeigfn animosity, Mr. Chamber-
lain pointed out that in future Great
Britain will have to takeinto account
public opinion in her colonies and
consult the colonists. Directly re-
ferring to the South African war,
Mr. Chamberlain asserted that Great
Britain was not entitled to make
peace unless on terms 'which would
rove satisfactory to the allies who
sent of their best to fight and die for
the common cause.
Australia has heard this sort
of thing before. But when this
country wants, as a matter
absolutely essential to the preser-
vation of the Anglo-Saxon type
in Australia, to shut out Asiatic
immigrants, it is met with the
information that Japan objects,
and some other foreigners ob-
jects, and if the thing is done at
all it must be done by devious
ways and underhand devices
so as to dodge foreign hostilitv.
The theory is beautiful enough,
hut the practice isn’t nearly so
lovely as the theory.
Every candidate for ad-
mission to the “foorce” is com-
pelled to pass an exam, in the
three R’s. He can’t arrest the
common drunk, or pursue a
runaway horse without know-
ing compound subtraction. But
the J.P,, who is supposed to
interpret the law, need not know
B from a cow’s horn, and he mostly doesn’t. The
writer knows one magistrate who pervades the
bench regularly, and who is unable to read. He
sprawls his name in a mechanical fashion, and if
he is interrupted in the middle he has to start
over again
According to the latest statistics there are
,54,09.1 girls under 14, and 54,078 boys under 14
toiling in English factories, and the bulk of them
are working full hours. The youngest—ranging
down to about 10 years—work half-time. Wasn’t
there a Reid-curr.-Pumpkin Smith legend that it
was Protection which led to the employment of
child labor ?
Re ; Mr. Frank Farnell, as visiting magis-
trate at Lord Howe Island, The Bulletin learns
from-official.documents.that he not only receives
no salary but travels at his own expense. Under
these circumstances, a par. on the subject of
travelling expenses in Bulletin of 11/l/’O2 was
obviously a misplaced emotion. Mr. Farnell, it
appears, is about the only economically-managed
department in the N.S.W. service.
Dr. Maxwell, talking re-
cently to certain Bundaberg
sugar-growers who were com-
plaining that, owing to recent
legislation, the sugar industry
was ruined, told them plump
and plain that impoverishment
of the soil was their real
trouble 1 ; that manure was their
real necessity, and that the
days of unscientific cultivation
were past. And the sugar men
didn’t like it. Some of them
had cropped their land for 15
and 20 years continuously with-
out manure.
Again that tired feeling !
Vie. Public Health Dept, sec-
retary, Colville, tells Me’ b.
Heiiald that it is the duty of
.municipal and shire councils to
take samples of food and have
them analysed. Some carry out
the duty fairly well, and some
do not. Nothing happens, or
is expected to happen, to those
who do not. Strict supervision
in the shires does not much
matter, Colville says. Appar-
ently, the man who doesn’t
live in a town is expected to eat
anything.
The Queensland Government is making
vigorous preparations for the approaching General
Election. Men are being sacked wholesale from
public works, and private employers of the
“right color” are discharging old hands and
taking on new ones. The Queensland worker
loses his vote when he shifts from one electorate
to another, and a great effort to “ move on ” the
working population is made before each election.
Sir Michael Hicks-Beach tells the Commons
that the war cost £4f5,300,000 during the last eight
months of last year—£5,787,500 per month. And
the Australian dailies say the war is over, and
that the British soldiers are merely chasing what
Melb. Age calls “a few brigand guerillas.” But
why is not Hicks-Beach abused for making dis-
closures calculated to encourage the Boers in
maintaining their hopeless and iniquitous struggle?
The Maoriland Premier is now screaming
loudly against the British Government for not
buying its meat for the S’African army from Maori-
land. The secret of a good deal of rampant
Jingoism is that a State has butter or oats or meat
to sell, and hopes that a little blood poured out
will grease the wheels of commerce. The colien-
tingenter thus dies, not so much to show his
country’s patriotism as to push the sale of his
country’s meat and bull-grease.
The S.M. Herald’s argument in support
of the free newspaper trains, with which the tax-
payers subsidise the rapacious Freetrade morning
papers of Sydney to the extent of about £lOO,OOO
a year, is that the trains would run whether papers
were carried or not, and therefore the service
costs the public nothing. Even if this were true,
which it isn’t, how would the Herald look upon
the private citizen who demanded a free ride to
Bourke because “the trains would be running in
any case ? ”
The Kingston Protective tariff has now
been in force for nearly four months, and the
stupendous rise in prices which was to come as
the nefarious result of Protection—well, it came
during the first month or two months, and is
practically gone again. The importers’ conspiracy
to put up prices fell through, and it costs just
about the same to live in jST.S. W. under Protection
as it did under comparative Ereetrade, with the
addition that the new tariff yields the revenue
that is required to pay old age pensions with.
The Philp Government last year ran
Queensland into a deficit of £528,000. It an-
nounced that this financial year there would be a
surplus of £12,000, but if the second half of the
year is like the first there will instead be a deficit
of nearly £600,000. And, having thus shown
itself a clumsy and hopeless bungler, the Philp
crowd appeals to the electors to send it back to
power because “at this crisis men of experience
are wanted.” Men who have experience in pro-
ducing half-million deficits is evidently what Philp
means.
The total of “new expenditure,” charge-
able to the Commonwealth as the’ cost of the first
year of Federation, is £269,000. Of this, £65,000
was spent on the Duke and Duchess and other in-
cidentals in connection with the opening of the
first Australian Parliament. As these items will
not recur, the real cost may be fairly assessed at
£205,0001 M'Laurin, Pilcher, Jack Want,
Haynes and others, who loudly predicted that the
cost would be £700,000, and the Telegraph,
which cheerfully went up to <£850,000, are very
silent just now.
Premier Alick Peacock, letting himself
loose at a Warrnambool (Vic.) art and literary
competition, the other day, gushed about the
work the A.N.A. had done in encouraging the
artistic and literary talents of Australians, and
lamented that the average Australian did not take
sufficient interest in “ those affairs that were likely
to be of so great an intellectual benefit to him or her
in after life.” Very fine and large, but the bitter
fact remains that, when the names of prominent
Australian writers and artists were submitted to
Peacock and his Ministers as those of fit and
proper persons to receive Commonwealth invita-
tions, Peacock thought them too unimportant to
be considered, and they were mostly crowded out
to make room for aldermen, mayors, and ham-
dealers.
“KE'P ME SAFE TILL MORNING LIGHT.”
BILLY (on retirement of nurse who has put them through
prayers for the night): “ Wait till morning tight does
come and I’ll fetch you such a punch! "
The Anglican Bishop of Melanesia to a
newspaper interviewer :
The missionaries are a good deal exercised about the
decision of the Commonwealth as to the labor traffic, and
to return all the natives now in Australia. There is not
the slightest doubt that for the islands the change will be
beneficial.
At the time of the Union of Ireland with.
England—the union of the shark with its prey, as
Sydney Smith put it—lreland was entitled, on a
population basis, to about 2(50 members; it had
then 5,200,000 people, and England less than
9,000,000. It was allowed IUU members only.
For about 75 years, until between 1870 and 1880,
Ireland was shamefully under-represented in the
House of Commons, and could obtain no redress.
Now, for over 20 years, through its loss of popula-
tion, it lias been a little over-represented, and
greit has been the howl thereat.
i Victorian Premier Peacock in one of his
wild moments
The work now being done in South Africa was not
merely the subjugation of the Boers, but it was an object
lesson to tl.e whole world. Marshal Soult said on the day
of the battle of Waterloo, “ I know these English ; they
will die where they stand before they will surrender.”
Considering the very large number of British
surrenders during the present war, and consider-
ing also poor, boneless, back-down Peacock’s con-
stant habit of surrendering to the Vic. Upper
House, this is a subject that a wiser bird with a
better-regulated tail would have avoided.
Some “ boys of the bulldog breed ” were
before Sydney Water. Police Court a few day 3
ago, charged with disobedience on the British
ship Sapphire ; said boys were :
Sperio Pupyianolus (Greek), E. Posmanus (Greek), T.
Isbitis (Greek), Nichola Litiso (Greek), Peter Peroig
(Greek), Ahm id Petty (Turk), Frederick Mahomed
(Arabian), Seer *n ties Stratto (Greek), and Nicholas
Stizrolaki (Greek).
The men were discharged, fortunately, as certain
difficulties under the Aliens Immigration Re-
striction Act would have interfered with sending
these “British ” sailors to an Australian prison.
The new law as to Western (N.S.W.)
lands in a few lines :
The local land boards are superseded by a permanent
board of three. By June 30 every leaseholder may apply
for a new lease ; and if be arranges with his mortgagee
for such a reduction of the debt on the holding as the
hoard thinks fair, the board may issue a new lease
running on to 1943. From this leasehold one-eighth may
he taken for settlement; in return the leaseholder may
get time-compensation up to six years for the balance.
Rents to be fixed now are to run, generally, till 1930.
Improvements put on a leasehold belong to the State;
hut the board has power to specially give the leaseholder
tenant right in them. The selector (homestead lessee,
&c.), if he cannot make a living from the area he holds,
may take up more, even though he has to go away from
his present holding to do it. If a man does not apply by
June 30 to come under the Act things are to go on, so far
as he is concerned, as though there were-no new Act.
The results of the British census for 1901
are now available, and they go a long way to bear
out Rider Haggard’s statement that many of the
country districts, of Britain, under the disastrous
Freetrade policy which kills local agriculture so
as to make room for cheap imports, are going
back to the condition of the African veldt.
England, Scotland, Ireland and Wales are
divided into 118 counties, and 54 of them —nearly
half in number and more than half in area—showed
a decrease of population as compared with the
census of 1891. Also, most of these showed a
decrease then as compared with 1881. Over
more than half the area of the United King-
dom population is dying out —there is an
increase in the aggregate, but it is all in the
towns and great cities. It is from the agri-
cultural districts that man is vanishing.
Hitherto the city population has been constantly
invigorated by the influx of a stronger, healthier
race from the country. Apparently this must end
some day. There can’t be an inflow of country
people if there are no country people left.


WHEN you see
an advertisement of LIPP PIANOS, couple that
thought with the name of PALING, because
Palings are absolute Sole Agents for the Lipp Piano
and do not stock any imitation of this well-known
maker.
•• • • . ; f . ;.r • ' .
PALING’S stock the following models of
Lipp Pianos: -
Model D.—Cottage Model.
„ 63. —With Extended Ends.
„ 53. —Boudoir Model.
„ 49. —Upright Grand.
And a Horizontal Baby Grand.
The Lipp Pianos are noted for extreme purity and richness
of tone, delicate touch, and their wear-resisting
qualities.
We have all models in stock, and shall be pleased if you
will come and hear them, and ask for particulars
of Prices.
Catalogues Post Eree. Easy Terms if you wish.
All Musical Instruments Stocked.
,p K I l^hwg
4 1/
t)
■'t'
: .*•
4"'*
S'**
m
m,
m
■ S- «
wm
HI lil ' l '-
-
Q ,
&
*
\v '
■5"-* >;S. -*J iWU
W. H. PALING & CO., Limited,
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
o 0
Ml
id
99
Ll
in polished Aluminium, Brass or Copper
FOR ARTISTIC WINDOW ADVERTISING
\l?ra
Tv'
D)0
SOLE AGENT S
FOR AUSTRALASIA
TEL 74-4-.
J.Leich Jones & Co,
257 CEORCE SJ SYDNEY.
Visitors to the old country
SOUTH
KENSINGTON
HOTEL
QUEEN’S GATE TERRACE.
LONDON. S.W.
UNDER ROYAL PATRONAGE.
df
CONSIDERABLY ENLARGED. NOTED
FOR ITS COMFORT & CONVENIENCE.
ONE OF THE
MOST FASHIONABLE
HOTELS IN LONDON.
From a recent English paper :
“ I have educated it to act as a Christian. I have
reared it from infancy, and it always asks to be let out
when it wants fresh air; it never kicks the clothes off the
bed, and it is most cfuiet and peaceable, and ladies and
gentlemen come in carriages to see it.” Thus Miss Emily
Hempton, of Nazeing, near Epping, at the local petty
sessions. She was not referring to a baby, but to a pig,
for keeping which “to the danger of the community’s
health ” she was summoned. The inspector of nuisances
found the pig occupying one room in Miss Emily’s house.
It was lying between clean sheets on a feather bed covered
with a white lace counterpane. Its jiead rested on a pil-
low. The room' was furnished like a parlor, and when
Mr. Inspector called Emily was kneeling down on the bed
kissing the pig and Calling it “ a naughty boy ” because it
had eaten a small portion of its pillow. A card in the
window read, “ Sixpence to see the pig.” Miss Hempton’s
tearful plea for her pet porker availed little, for the hard-
hearted magistrates ordered her to find fresh lodgings for
Mr. Christian Pig inside six weeks, on pain of penalties
under the Public Health Act.
AUSTRALIAN . . .
STAMPS
Highest Cash Prices Paid
to any amount for
Old or Rare Btamps,
y UMd or UmiMd.
The First
Australian Stamp.
STAMre ' ALmm ’
•MYTH & NIGOLU, M , S y d M y.
Catarrh ° f the stomach
CURED.
10 Years’ Intense Suffering.
Call and See Mrs. Cummings.
302 Oxford-street, Woollahra,
April 27, 1900.
To Mr. S. A. PALMER,
184 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Dear Sir,—For ten (10) years I have suffered from
Catarrh of the Stomach, suffering- intense pain during the
whole time. Several times my life was despaired of, and
at last the doctor said he could do no more for me. At
this time I read your advertisement, and determined to
give VITADATIO a trial. The result has exceeded my
GREATEST anticipations. I am now FULLY RE-
COVERED, and am in better health than I have been
for the last twelve years. I earnestly recommend the
medicine to similar sufferers. You are at liberty to
make what use you like of this, and I shall feel a
pleasure in answering any questions re my complaint.
Yours truly,
, (Signed) ISABELLA CUMMINS.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials
# CALLAGHAN
SHOE
THIS SHOE IS PHOTO-
GRAPHED FROM STOCK.
LADIES.
OTHERS
HAVE
ORDERED
HAVE
YOU
;
Special design in our own
Shoe, made of American
glace-kid, with an up-to-date
stylish toe-cap of patent leather,
and having the newly-fashioned
Collarette, as shown in the engraving.
Wear Absolutely Guaranteed.
tsr
12/11 ; post paid, 13/6.
CALLAGHAN BOOTS OR SHOEB can BE EXCHANGED if not correct,
as we wish DISTANT customers to be as pleased as those In town.
S2T Your money RETURNED If you are not satisfied with the Boots.
. ' CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 George St., Sydney


A BKAUTIFITfi COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It dri\es away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
“ SHARPSHOOTING
For Sport and War ”
gdf
By W. W. GREifif Eli.
Hits the Mark!
1/- IMETT/
If you wish to know how to guard the
Empire—if you are one of those who will
rally round the old flag—read this book.
It teaches all about Rifles and Rifle
Shooting, how to aim and make allowance,
&c., and it contains chapters on .Ranges
and Rifle Clubs, with a history of the part
played by the Armed Civilian in the past.
The Best Shilling’s Worth ever Published!
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations for 1/- nett.
Of all Booksellers, or C. W. "Suc'dand, Agent
for VV. W. Greener, 317 Collins St.,; ME'. J._
UNDER THE ROYAL PATRONAGE OF
H.M. THE QUEEN OF GREECE.
HR.H. PRINCESS MARIE OF GREECE.
H.R.H. THE DUKE OF SPARTA-
gfd
H.R.H. THE DUCHESS OF SPARTA.
H.R.H. PRINCESS HOHENLOHE.
H.R.H. PRINCE GEORGE OF GREECE.
(High Commissioner of Crete, &c., &c.)
gdf
g
FOR
THE
dfg
i
SSL
m
mm
m
Photo d specially for the, “Har’ene . 0., by I.angfier, Bond St., W
Haymarket rheatre, London.
Miss JULIA NEILSON
writes —
“ / am at present trying vour ‘ Harlene 'for my
hair , and I Jinn it one of the best Hair Tonics and
Restorers / have ever used , and I have tried many. .
Will you kindly send me two more bottles."
THE GREAT HAIR
PRODUCER and RESTORER.
VVVWWV.\VW\VV/WWWVVWVVV
THE FINEST DRESSING SPECIALLY PREPARED AND
DELICATELY PERFUMED.
A LUXURY AND A NECESSITY TO EVERY MODERN TOILET
**Harlene” Produces Luxuriant Hair, Prevent its Falling Off and Turning
Grey. Unequalled for Promoting the Growth of the Beard and Moustache.
The World Renowned/ Remedy for Baldness. For Preserving, Strengthening)
and Renderin’? the Hair Beautifully Soft, for Removing Scurf Dandruff, &c.,
also for Restoring Grev Ha ; r to its Original Colour.
—> . i
Crown Prince’s Palace, Athens. |
H.R.H. PRINCESS MARIE OF GREECE \
writes —“ Messrs. Edwards’ Preparation, Harlene ’ for the Hair, has given entire
satisfaction. H.R.H. wishes six more bottles of ‘ Harlene ’ sent as soon as possible,’’
Kitegyhaza, County Bikis, Hungary.
COUNTESS DENIS ALMASY
writes —“ Please forward me three more bottles of ‘Harlene,' as lam particularly satisfied
with the two bottles sent me to Switzerland, and have been using it ever since.”
Pull Description and Directions for use in Twenty Languages supplied with every
Bottle. 1/-, 2/6, and (fhree times 2/6 size) 4/6 per Bottle, from Druggists, &c.,
all over the World.
X 5
M
Photo’d specially lor the "Harlene Co., hy tanglier, Bond St.; W.
Ganich Th aJre , London.. .
Miss VIOLET VANBRUGH
' wi ites —
“/ am very pleased to teslifv to the excellent
qualities of 'Harlene,' it is most refreshing and
invigorating and J have found it very Stimulating
to the Growth o 1 my Hair.
“ P.S. — I hope fate will never take me to any
.quarter of the globe where 1 should be unable
poprocure ' Harlene."'
EDWARDS
MARLENE Co., 95 &
Nish Holbom, London, W.C.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
A Maori-named prad, of indifferent appearance,
was sent out for a minor race at Wairarapa (M.L.) lately as
a sort of forlorn hope to pay the winter oat bill. He just
missed the stake, hut paid £52 19s. on the tote —the
biggest dividend yet returned on a second horse in Pig-
Island.
* * * *
At a recent Victorian country race-meeting a
bookie, who was giving long odds on the fourth race,
pleaded “ broke ”at settling-time. There was the usual
uproar, and a policeman came to the rescue. “ Who
wants to give him in charge ? ” he asked, and a small mob
of backers cried “Me !” Off they started for the town,
1& miles away. About 10 backers followed, along with a
crowd of youngsters. Thinking there was no show to get
their cash some of the backers presently dropped back
and returned to the course, and at last only three
remained. When half-a-mile from the police-station, the
bookie said, “Who is goingtogive me in charge?” “We
are ! ” said the three backers. “Show me your tickets
and I’ll pay.” He paid amounts to £3 12s. Now, who
is giving me in charge ? ” No one answered. The lucky
ones were hastening back to the course ! The police let
him go, as there was no one to press the charge, and
bookie caught the first train to the city with a fair
amount of cash.
*'* » »
Some amusing things occur at small race
meetings. Up North Maoriland in a pony race, part of
the course was through a cutting hidden from the specta-
tors. The “dead bird ” led into this cutting but near the
finish of it and before emerging to view absolutely refused
to gallop and almost stopped. Then all the other riders
pulled up, and with one unanimous belt whipped the
“ bird ” on the rump, so that he shot out of the cutting
in proper style and continued his lead home, the others
following whipping (their boots) hard. Another time in
a hurdle race on the West Coast (the territory of pure
racing) the “ correct pea ” came to grief at the last
hurdle and clambered over the fence into the grandstand.
Four other jumpers who were coming along leisurely,
seeitig what had happened, bucked their jockeys off at
this particular hurdle. But there were two old dead ’uns
far away in the rear who had pretty well missed every-
thing, and were too far back to notice anything peculiar
and, in fact, not seeing the “pea” (said pea looking on
from the seven and sixpenny seats) thought the race was
over, and cleared the last “ terrible ” hurdle whistling,
and inadvertent’}* secured first and second places. It is
awkward when the horses are all stiff.
• '• * *
There has - been a hubbub in M.L. trotting
circles over financially-interested stewards adjudicating
on protests, and, per contra, protests being dec'ded by a
few committeemen, the remainder standing out because
they are interested. Latter was the case at the last N.Z.
Metropolitan T.O. meet, result being that the club, which
is the premier trotting institution of Australasia, is
strongly urged to appoint stipendiary stewards who will
undertak-, as p :rt of their contract, not to be financially
interesled.
* «
Highest-pricerl yearlings at the Wellington
Park (M.L.) stud sales : 1887, Forest Queen, by Musket—
Sylvia (Mr. T. Chirnside), £llOO ; and Berly, by Musket-
Onyx (Mr. Ch'rnside), £lOlO ; 1880, Steadfast, by Norden-
feidt—Nelly Mom (Mr. W. R. Wilson), £1025; and
Zalinski, by Nordenfeldt—Frailty (Mr. Wilson), £900;
1890, Mosquetaire, by NorderP'eldt—Frailty (Mr. Gollan),
£2025 ; 1891, Culloden, bv Nordenfeldt.—Nelly More (Mr.
Gollan), 1 1050 ; and Tireur, by Nordenfeldt—Fiorance
Macarthy (Mr. Gollanl, £950 ; 1892, Havoc, by Norden-
feldt—Frailty (Mr. W. It. Wilson), £220.); 1893, Novelette,
by Nordenfeldt--Ouida (Mr. Hordern), £900; 1894,
Astronomer, by Castor—Frailty, £1575 ; and Cravat, bv
Castor—Necklace (Mr. Hordern), £lO5O. Prices were not
maintained during the next four years, but in 1898 Lan-
caster, by Hotchkiss—Frailty, went to J. Foulsham for
£lOOO ; in 1899 Hengist, by St. Lager—Hilda, was bought
by the Hon. H. Mossman for 1050 guineas ; last year Mr.
Stead gave 1400 guineas for Royal Artillery, by Hotchkiss
—Rose of Wellington. This year the price of the pick of
the bunch fell to 650 guineas, given for the Hotchkiss—
Janet colt.
Fighting Mao, now battling in minor horse
events in ILL. with success, wasn’t raced until nine years
old.
* * • *
In T%ttersalPs No. 1 Summer Cup drawing
ticket No. 706 drew two cash .prizes—a £5 and a So ;
did ticket. No. 17,019 and ticket 18,623. Chance for at;
mathematical contributor to figure out when this sort of
event is due to happen again.
* * * *
Totalisator receipts at almost every meeting in
Maoriland have expanded wonderfully of late, A dismal.
Palmerston North parson named Jolly almost cried dur=e
ing an anti-gambling sermon when stating that the cash
invested at the Auckland meeting alone would have built
a cathedral.
* • * *
“F. 0.” complains The M.C.O. seems to
have slightly lost its head, and actually, at second test,,
refused money through over-studying the interests of its
select 3500 members. A further slice of the grand-stand
and pavilion in front was roped-in for these choice few
(and their lady friends). Consequence, standing-room
only, and many turned away from the 2s. stand, while
members’ reserve could have held another 500 or so.
These lucky few—at £2 ss. a year—get two ladies’ tickets,
which, including tests, inter-States, Australs, fbotball,
concerts, sports, etc., pans out at less than 4d. a head a
day. And if they come early they can monopolise the
best seats in the main stand also. Also, smoking seems
to be robustly discouraged, the only accommodation for
pipe-lovers being a few canvas-oovered seats holding 400
or. so ; those full, they must stand in the sun on the
asphalt and perspire.
* m m *
The waste of time at a cricket-match when a
wicket falls reminds one of the waits between songs at a
Town Hall concert. The outgoing batsman performs a
cake-walk back to the pavilion, whilst the fieldsmen
stretch themselves around the ground. After he has
disappeared from view there comes a brief period, during
which the next artist on the programme gets suspected
of having fallen suddenly ill. and then this awful doubt
is dispelled by the next artist coming along to cake-walk
up to the wickets. Arrived at the scene of action he goes
through a form of taking instructions re a new block-
hole, and the game is resumed by instalments. Twenty-
four pairs of cake-walks intersected the progress of the
test-match at Melbourne on New Year’s Hay, and-twenty-
four times the crowd wondered why the outgoing and
incoming walkers couldn’t have passed one another at a
lively trot half-way between the wicket and the pavilion
gates. The stage-management of a big match is the
hollowest of devices for prolonging the agony.
* • * *
Stated that Jessop, on his way Out, induced
Mehta, a Parsec, captain in the Maharajah of Patiala’s
army, and about the best, bowler in India, to go to Eng-
land and qualify for Gloucester. It takes two years to
qualify, and in Ferris’s case when the time was up he
was (as a bowler) hardly-worth getting. Mehta will not
be worth getting two years hence if he becomes
thoroughly Anglicised and learns to love “them pints o’
beer in a tankard.”
* * * m. -
- “Scutum”: According to a recent cable, the'
Marylebone C.C. committee has resolved that the bowl-
ing crease should be widened one foot each way, and that
it is undesirable that wickets should be prepared arti-
ficially. The hope is also expressed that counties will
demine to play doubtful bowlers. The committee appears
to have evolved a few original ideas for helping the bowler
against the batsman. The bowling crease extends in a
line with the stumps three feet on each side. The
additional width of a foot each way may prove helpful to
the bowler, who will be able to vary his howling by
delivering some overs at the extreme end of the crease,
the flight of the ball making a sharper angle with it than
is possible under the present rule. The objection to
artificially-prepared wickets seems to me absurd. By all
means let us have the nearest approach to a billiard-table
that is 'obtainable, provided it is of turf. The half-hearted
result of this consideration of the'ever-present “ throwing”
question is also in favor of the; bowler. It will enable
county captains, who have, or profess to have, no doubts
as to the fairness of the deliveries of successful bowlers, to
continue using them, although tliey may be doubtful in
the eyes of the committee.
“Old Timer ”: Veteran Victorian bowler C.
Nettleton (dead the other day, cetat 76) was among the
pioneers of bowls in Victoria, assisting in the forma-
tion of West Melbourne Club, and acting as its secretary
when the green was not in Flagstaff Gardens, but in an
enclosure in William-st., back of the old Crown Lands
He did much for the game, and played it well,
'carrying off numerous prizes.
* * * *
That physical wreck, Griff o, late of several
asylums,is fighting Once more in the States, arid got away
with two battles in a month against third - raters.ayQne was
at Cincinnati; where he walloped- a’ Colored ‘ncivsboy :
(“Kid ” Ashe)on points over a 10-rounds trip. Griff, was
.comparatively clever all the way, and some of hisold-time
brilliancy was Seen in flashes. A dozen punches made
impact with Griffo’s chin, but he only shook his head and
waded in to wipe t'other chap’s score out. Half what
Griffo has gone through would have flattened an
ordinarily strong man out; yet here he is still on deck,
and, despite years of sapping excess, still able to live
with and indisputably beat a vigorous youngster.
* * * »
Consider the gap between Vic. and N.S.W.
speed swimming : Time for Vic.’s 100yds. supremacy on
Saturday, by A. Tait, was 1.231 sec - Record for same
distance in N.S.W. is Lane’s 1.0 2-5 sec. Probably there
are hundreds in N.S.W. who could swim rings round
Tait’s time. Yet in the early ek hties r ,yiotoria owned
some fine swimmers, notably the M'.lndoes, de-Littles,
and Webster. Falling off is due to slump in organised
swimming in Victoria, while it flourished in N.S.W.
* * * “•
F. K. Ealing, ex-chess champion and strongest
player in Victoria, a railwav engineer, is-no\v on sick
leave His many friends hope for a complete recovery.
But he should give up chess, and take to lopiie game
with more fresh air and exercise in it.
(Continued on page ?o.j| »
“Piles and Their Cure.”—The pamphlet
bv Albert Sharp, entitled “ Piles and the Wav to
Cure Them, 3 ’ without operation, sent free, on
application to the Sydney Depot, 257 George-
street.* ; i ‘
“Jim Pan” : Near Pennant Hills, t’other
day, I came across a hand-painted notice :
U R horse fed while you wait for a bob.
P.S.—Or even if you don’t wait.
I waited for a bob, but my horse wasn’t fed.
A British army order has been issued
abolishing gold lace on officers’ trousers. Tf
pianos and ice-chests could also be officially
banned De Wet would have to look out. The weary
lumbering of the British officer’s drawing-room
suite after an enemy who carries nothing but his
gun, his victuals and his stout heart, makes the
war pitiably slow. ,
As an excursion steamer from Melbourne
ranged alongside the Queenscliff pier the other
day, a young girl was seen to be struggling in the
water. Nobody saw her get there, but she was
there sure enough. After half the lifebuoys on
the boat and pier had been aimed at the damsel
with poor success, a very large man with a small
head was seen to be peeling off, preparatory to
diving to the rescue. The crowds watched and
cheered and urged him to “ hurry himself.” But
he was in no hurry. Carefully and methodically
he stripped off and neatly folded up, side by side,
six suits of clothes, and finally took a header in a
neat bathing costume. By this time the crowd
had realised that it was all a porous plaster
advertisement or something of the sortj and its
interest waned. a '
Advt. from West Australian : '
jy/£AN wants killing- or boiling down.
What a number of other people in this woricf want
boiling down, but haven’t the sense to realise tho
fact ! And what a much better world this' would
be if many people and many speeches itad been
boiled down! ’ ' '
•One of the oldest land marks in Parra-
matta, the Cottage Inn, in O’Connell-st., has
found its occupation gone. At one time, it vied
with Pay ten’s Woolpack for the “cornstalk and
currency ” trade. It has lately had a succession of
tenants, and the last one, a few days ago, handed
the license back to the police. It apparently was
not a tied house.
Shown in evidence at Essendon (Vic.)
court that a local Chinese gardener, who was fined
£3 for allowing filth to accumulate on his premises,
was in the habit of washing his' vegetables in
water from the street-channels. The fluid was
run into the garden tanks per medium of a secret
pipe cleverly concealed by boring a. hole under the
footpath. “Nieee wegetable, missy ” !
A really fine example of a Christian
church is St. George’s, New York, of Cor-
nelius Vanderbilt was one of the chief pillars, and
which is now propped up by such humble fol-
lowers of the Homeless Carpenter as Pierpont
Morgan, August Belmont, Levi Morton, Stetson-
Cutting, and Russell Sage. Pierppnt IVlorgan
passes the collection plate of Sundays, and the
billionaires wearily drop in 500,000 dollars or so,
whilst the choir sings “Jerusalem the golden.”
Hymns of that sort keep such churehesSbogether.
A religion with a brick and grass. Jerusalem in it
would have no millionaire to carry its plate.
There is no such a thing as~Tim%(i The
Dervish said to the octogenarian Abana?& “ Dip
your head in that pot of water.” Aban'gzar did
so. He immediately became a boy again and
grew up to manhood, in toilsome - years. He
married, had a large family, and lived to be 80
again. All this happened while he put his head
in the water, and drew it out. Tallowfat and his
man John were punting over the Murrumbidgee
on New Year’s Day, 1852. Says Tallowfat :
“How do you like eggs best?” They cross at
the same punt New Year’s Day, 1902. Says
John: “ Poached, sir.” But here’s a fact. Two
men were lately sitting on the doorstep of a.Melb.
lodging-house. The attendant requested them to
shift. Says one : “Excuse us. We haven’t met
for 47 years, and we just sat down to have a
chat.”.


Pocket Knives make good, useful
Presents, especially when they are fitted
with Silver or Gold Handles, such as we
illustrate above. All have rings on one
end, so that you can attach to chain.
The small size is suitable for a lady.
Solid Silver, 5/6, 6/6, 8/6. Solid Gold,
- 14/6, 22/6, 27/6.
This is an exceptionally handsome
Powder Jar of best English Out Glass,
with charmingly-designed Solid Silver
Top and Mounts. Price, £2 15s.
We have just opened out the best lot
of Pin and Sweet Trays (in Solid Silver)
you could wish to see. Never have we
seen such pretty designs, combined
with so much finish and weight. The
prices for Pin Trays run 5,6, 6/6, 10/6,
11/6; and for Sweet Dishes, 6/6, 10/6,
l3/6.
This Out-Glass Butter Dish, with
strong!}' Silver-Plated Stand and Lid,
good for many years of use, only 12 6.
Lots of others, from 10/6 to 21/-.
fd
4/2 GEORGE ST syn^v"
All Goods sent Free on Receipt of Remittance.
WRITE FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
This shows quite a novel design of Brooch —tvvo
15c. Gold Bars, with a Diamond in centre, in
which are set 4 lovely Opals, £2 12s 6d.
One of our most popular Brooches is illustrated
here. It is made of 9c. Gold, and has a pretty,
Opal-set Fly in the centre. Strong and Service-
able. £1 5s each.
This is a 2-Bar Brooch in 15c. Gold, with two
exquisite Opal Hearts and Opal-set Star in centre.
The price is £2 10s.
The New Bird, Bell and 1. af Brooch, 9c. Gold,
only 11/o. ’
Bar and Orescent Brooch, in either a combination
of Diamonds and Rubies or Diamonds and
Sapphires. Excellent value at £l2 10s.
This shows the ever-popular Nellie Stewart Bangle. We stock
three sizes, in 9c. and 15c. Gold. The ojie we illustrate is the large
size. Each is perfectly made, with invisible joint find catch. 9c.
Gold, £2 10s, £3 3s, £4 ; 15c. Gold, £3 7s 6d, £5, £7l
m
Real New Zealand Greenstone, mounted.with 9c. Gold, as Pendants
for gentlemen’s watch-chains. We make these in two sizes—as
illustrated, 13 6 ; size smaller, 12/6.
The Fashionable Bamboo Bracelet, strong, well-made and
fini.hud, and fitted with Safety Chain. 9c. Gold, £2 ;
15c. Gold, £4.
c
m
The New Wire-effect Soli 1 Silver Belt-Clasps. Strong
quite a change from the old style of Olasp. As above, 15/6
of equally pretty design, for 14,'6.
make, and
. Another,
We have just 24 of these handy articles,
Teapot Stands, in stock ; so don’t be too
late. They save the table many a scorching
—a thing to be considered and guarded
against. They have pretty Tile Centres and
heavy Plated Mounts. Price, 10/6, post free.
Q
This is a New Pattern of Biscuit Box. It
is made of Solid Nickel Silver, heavily
Plated and good for 30 years’ wear. The
glass catl be removed for cleaning pur-
poses. Price, £2 10s. Other Glass Biscuit
Barrels from 16/6 to 30/-.
E
S§£23
3SS£2
Cut Glass and Solid Silver Trinket Box.
Makes a tasty Wedding or Birthday
Present. It is good English Cut Glass, not
a scratch here and there. The price is 25/-
g
$
This Cabinet-size Solid Silver Photo. Frame
costs but 12 6 ; while the Carte de Visit is
.5/-, and the Midget, plain, only 3/-. Each
of these lines are splendid value. If you
are not satisfied when you receive them,
you can have your money back.
NATURE’S TRIUMPHANT REMEDY.
Kutnows Powder
The Infallible Remedy for
Constipation, Stomach, Kidney
Trouble, Liver Torpor, Gout,
Rheumatism, and Uric Acid
Hhniri
KUTNOW’S POWDER is acknowledged to be the
proper remedy for all such ailments.
KUTNOW’S POWDER is a perfect organic cleanser
and the safety-valve of health. It has the same medicinal
curative and healing properties as the waters of the Royal
and Imperial European Spas, without their drastic and
lowering effects.
KUTNOW’S POWDER possesses the power of eliminat-
r ing the poison produced in the blood from an excess of bile
and acids. The use of KUTNOW’S POWDER thereby
gives tone to the system; and, in assisting to build up
healthy tissue, becomes the first aid to a vigorous consti-
tution.
Beware of Fraudulent
Imitations.
KUTNOW’S POWDER may be obtained in capsuled bottles, of
all Chemists and Medicine Vendors. See that the Registered Trade
Mark, “ Hirschensprung ” (or Deer Leap), and the autograph facsimile
signature, “8. KUTNOW and Co. (Ld. ),” are on the label and carton.
ONLY THESE ENSURE GENUINENESS. INSIST ON
“KUTNOW’S,” AND FIRMLY REFUSE ANY SUBSTI-
TUTES; THEY ARE WORTHLESS AND OFTEN INJURIOUS.
Constipation neglected or unskilfully
treated becomes habitual or chronic, and
is responsible for most of the ills which
flesh is heir to. Most people, when sick,
whether from INDIGESTION, DYS-
PEPSIA, BILIOUSNESS, SICK
HEADACHE, FLATULENCE, NAU-
SEA, SOUR ERUCTATIONS,
VOMITING, or HEARTBURN, fly to
the aid of drastic purgatives, pills, salts,
or noxious oils, the use of which means a
passing relief, but which (as most medi-
cal men declare) afterwards increase the
constipation, and thereby accentuate the
ailment. Of all the innumerable reme-
dies (offered to the public) for the cure of
constipation there is only one which
absolutely meets the natural necessities
of this frequently recurring evil—rviz.,
KUTNOW’S POWDER, the safety-
valve of Health.
»
KUTNOW’S POWDER is
used in all the
principal Hospitals
throughout the
Universe, including
the Field Hospitals
in South Africa.
DR. BRACKET.
Head Physician at the Baths at Aix-les-Bains,
in writing, said:
“ For patients suffering from disorders of the Stomach, Liver, and
Bowels I have prescribed ‘ KUTNOW’S Improved Effervescent
Carlsbad POWDER,’ and by its aid obtained the best results. Have
prescribed the powder for about a year in my hospital practice here, as
well as frequently for my private patients, and find it also efficient in
Gout and Rheumatism. I consider KUTNOW ? SPOWDERindis-
pansabjejdo persons travelling.” •
SIR JOHN B. MONCKTON,
Town Clerk of London,
writes :
“Guildhall, London, E.C., Nov. 4th, 1901.
“Gentlemen,— I have much satisfaction in stating that for the last
two years I have regularly used KUTNOW’S POWDER, with the
result that troublesome and frequent attacks of lumbago, with
other gouty symptoms that had troubled me for years, seem
to have entirely disappeared. “Yours truly,
“ JOHN B. MONCKTON.”
AN ACT OF JUSTICE TO HUMANITY.
“0. London Road, High-street, Walthamstow.
“ Entirplv unsolicited, I am anxious to bear my testimony to the
wonderful results of vour ‘Carlsbad Powders.’ For a long period I
have been suffering from indigestion. Seeing your advertisements,
thought I would give them a trial, and am more than satisfied with the
result. Life is a pleasure and free from pain, feel very.much stronger,
andean, with the utmost confidence, recommend them. As an act of
justiee to you, as well as suffering humanity, cannot withhold my testi-
mony to the worth of your powders.
' ' “S. FOOTMAN.”
LIVER COMPLAINT.
“ 78 King’s Road, Bootie, Lance.
“Gentlemen,—l have used your KtJTNOW’S POWDER for
some little time now, and have‘derived considerable benefit from its
use. it is an ideal Liver medicine, and as a remedy for Biliousness has
no equal.—Believe me, faithfully yours,
“THOMAS H. WILSON.”
Overwhelming Testimony reaches our
offices daily from Sufferers who have
obtained Permanent Relief by the use
of KVTNOW’S POWDER*
Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & CO., LTD,, 41 EARRINGDON RD., LONDON, E.C.
Proprietors in U.S.A.: KUTNOW BROS., LTD., 853 BROADWAY, NEW YORK, (I—7)


Drink
Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER
As
a Corrective
and Safeguard
of HEALTH.
THE BEST REMEDY TO-DAY IN THE MARKET IS
REUTER'S LITTLE PILLS
FOR THE LIVER.
A HOUSEHOLD NECESSITY.
The Race
It does not depend on the start, but on the finish.
It’s staying power which carries many a runnel
to victory. It’s like that in business. Many a
man starts off in a race for business success
with a burst of speed which seems to assure
victory. Presently he begins to falter, and at
last he falls and fails. The cause? Generally
“Stomach Trouble.” No man is stronger than
his stomach. Business haste leads to careless and
irregular eating. The stomach and other organs'!
of digestion and nutrition become diseased : the
body is not fully nourished, and so grows weak.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills cure disease of tfile
stomach and other organs of digestion and .
nutrition. They strengthen the stomach, and
so strengthen the whole body, which depends on
the stomach for the nourishment from which
strength is made ; they cleanse the clogged liver,
and strengthen the kidneys. There is no medi-
cine “just as good” for diseases of the stomach
and allied organs. “ I have been a great sufferer
for some time from indigestion and biliousness,
for which I tried many remedies, but received
no benefit from any of them until I used your Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills,” writes Mr. S. Cole,
Woodend, Victoria. “ I commenced their use by
taking them according to directions, and after
taking three doses, found they had made a great
difference in my health. I continued their use,
and used a few bottles, and can honestly say they
have cured me of indigestion and biliousness.
Since using these pills I have recommended them
—and even given them —to many, and the results
have always been good. You have my permission
to use this letter for the benefit of others.” Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a perfect blood
purifier, and a positive cure for biliousness, in-
digestion, constipation, headaches, sallow com-
plexion, liver and kidney troubles, piles, pimples,
boils and blotches, and for female ailments. Sold
by chemists and storekeepers, Is. per bottle,
or six bottles 6s. 6d. Sole proprietors, The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd. (Australasian Dep6t),
58 Pitt-street, Sydney. Packed in amber bottles,
and the full name blown thereon.*
A society has been formed in England
entitled the “National Trust for the Preservation
of Places of Historical Interest and Natural
Beauty.” Imagine a fellow going about proudly
labelled “ M.N.T.P.P.H.1.N.8.”!
TTIOR the person who Is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY At
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“ Eliis’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General. Post
Office.
Proprietor
GKO. W. ELLIS.
JOHN JAMESON
“THREE-STAR” WHISKEY.
Agents : J. BAK.RE JOHNSTON & CO., Loftus Street, Sydney.
RED BIRD BICYCLES
ARE ALWAYS COOD.~3K!
IF YOU BUY A BED BIRD ON EASY
GRADUAL PAYMENT TERMS YOU
WILL ENJOY YOUR CYCLING.
Call and See our Latest Models.
GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King Street, Sydney.
Hardy’s Tintara W ines
Absolutely Pure
Adelaide:
CURRIE STREET
A
Fully Matured;
Melbourne:
COLLINS STREET
700 Medals, eto.
A
Sydney:
GROSVENOR STREET
A remarkable combination of Blythe, Braund,
Barnes, and Lilley won the first test for the Englishmen,
and The Bulletin remarked at the time that a repetition
of such successful quartette playing by the three bowlers
and the wicket-keeper was not likely to recur. It hasn’t
gone near to recurring. The second test found Blythe
with a strained hand and Lilley out of sorts, and when
the third match came about Blythe was still suffering
from the strain, Lilley had clearly not recovered his form,
and Barnes, the burly battler, broke down in one of his
knees. But as a set off to their bad luck at Adelaide the
visitors won the toss, which gave them a great chance to
win on their batting as the weather turned out. Also
the quality of Noble’s bowling was strained, whereby they
got a further opportunity to make a big score in their
second innings. And this was the chance they missed.
Of the English batsmen who were going to do
such great, dashing things, four —Jessop, Jones, Gunn
and Tyldesley—have been almost consistent failures.
Lilley, too, is, thus far, a lot below his English average
against Australian bowling, and Quaife’s improved form
in the Adelaide test didn’t amount to a revelation. Five
of these six men were accepted as more or less representa-
tive All England players. Each of them had been chosen
as a test teamster against the last Australian Eleven in
England, and all of them brought out better batting
averages than Braund or Maclaren from the last English
“ county ” season. Braund, Maclaren and Hayward are
the satisfactory test batsmen of the visiting crowd thus
far. A. O. Jones is the one very glaring disappointment,
and Jessop, Gunn and Tyldesley would likewise be left
out of the next match as a matter of course if it were
going to happen in England instead of here. All the
same, there is no evidence on paper that Maclaren’s
team can be greatly improved upon when the next
Australian Eleven goes ’Ome to play a new series of Tests.
Only five English batsmen averaged more than 30 runs
against Darling’s team in ’99, and three of those—Hay-
ward, Lilley, and Maclaren —are among the present
A.-E.E. The other two were Ranji and Jackson. Cricket
writers across the water snorted at the. idea of any Eng-
lish team being representative unless it included Jackson,
Ranji, Rhodes, Hirst, and the “ brilliant ” Fry. They lay
particular stress on Fry, who played eight Test innings
against the Australian Eleven in ’99 for an average of 23
runs per innings, or exactly a third of Hayward’s average.
Giving them Jackson, Fry, Ranji, Rhodes, and Hirst, as
alleged indispensable members of a “ real ” All-England
lot, the other six will have to be Hayward, Maclaren,
Braund, Barnes, Lilley, and, say, Tyldesley. The combi-
nation doesn’t look appallingly powerful. The old-
fashioned professionals who came out with Shaw and
Shrewsbury, years ago, were never found wanting on the
pinch. They knew how to face a crisis and hold their
tongues. The Maclarenites are addicted to talking over-
night about the things they mean to do next day, and
they don’t do ’em. .
• * • •
The unexpected efficacy of Gunn in the third
test was rather a satire on the quick-change system which
Captain Maclaren had adopted in the previo s matches.
Gunn got his chance through the break-down of Barnes,
and it was not until 22 runs had been scored off him that
he began to trouble the batsmen. Both Hill and Duff
were badly missed from his bowling, but later on he got
one wicket for 58. Then came four more wickets for 18;
total, 5 for 76—a splendid average. In the previous test
matches, and also in the match with N.S.W., Maclaren
had put Gunn on the shelf before he found his length.
Against N.S.W. his record was 0 for 36 in the first innings
and 0 for 21 in the second. In the first test he came out
with 0 for 27, and in the Melb. test he was given only a
short show (13 runs for 0 wickets), whilst Braund and
Blythe were suffering in the second innings to the tune
of 199 for two wickets between them.
• • * *
The last three English teams in Australia have
lost the test-match at Adelaide.
* ♦ • *
Australia gradually pulls on England in the
test games. Since 1895, 18 matches have been played
and Australia has won 9, England 5, and 4 drawn. The
scoring now is England 27, Australia 22, drawn 10.
• * • *
Maclaren made a great mistake in letting Blythe
come out for the second test after surgeon Fitzgerald had
definitely stated that the boy needed a rest. The
Englishmen lost that game anyhow, and, as the result of
working Blythe’s strained hand, they found him worse
than useless in the third test match. He took the first
Australian wicket (Darling’s) for 1 run, and subsequently
119 runs were punched off him for 0 wickets, whilst A. O.
Jones, a respectable bowler on his English figures, was
denied a chance with the leather.
• * • •
Hugh Trumble was suffering from an attack of
lumbago on the last two days of the Adelaide test, yet he
took 6 wickets for 74, and made 62 (not out). Once again
the long Victorian has demonstrated that he is Geo.
Giffen’s successor as best Australian all-round player.
Trumble becomes a Benedict just before the coming
English tour, the prospective Mrs. Hugh being a Melb.
girl.
* * * •
Test-match trifles. Ernest Jones did some
emergency fielding for each side, and the crowd was
humorously anxious that he should go on to bowl for
England. A most circumstantial lie pervaded Adelaide
on the first morning that Noble was unable to play, and
Travers had replaced him. When England made its big
stand at the start, Giffen, Travers, and Jones were all
shouted for in turn. Difficult to say whether Maclaren
and Hayward or Hill and Trumper showed the more
perfect command of the ball; the Australian pair scored
faster, however, and Hill would have safely passed the
100 overnight but for running out of breath. Second
innings Maclaren never seemed at home. The many run-
outs were all out by a yard or more, and were much
alike. Nobody palpably in fault, but a second’s misun-
derstanding, and superb fielding (Hayward’s run-out was
stumped in everything but name). Governor Tennyson
and party sat out each day’s play from the rising of the
stumps to the going down of the same, and the attend-
ance reached the giddy height (for Adelaide) of 16,000.
The dust-storm on the fourth day was a record. It
lasted continuously (or rather in puffs) from 3 till hope
was abandoned at 5.20, and at one time the stumps were
invisible from the pavilion.
* * * •
More Adelaide Test-match trifles: Many fine
catches, but others misse(j— e.g., by Maclaren and Jones,
Trumble and Hill. These mostly straight, but sharp ; none
missed where the fielder had time to steady himself. Un-
usual number of dubious decisions towards the end, but
they cut both ways. The tension when Hill was nearing
his hundred for the second time was extreme, and really
exceeded the excitement at the finish, when everybody
was realising that it wasn’t so very close after all. Barnes
remained in bed, with his leg in splints, but the others all
rushed for the express, which was timed to leave 40
minutes after the game ended. Last day’s play was
deadly slow ; from 12.5 to 3.50 (barring lunch) to make
114 runs ! The game ought to be known as the Cripples’
Match. Noble and Howell, though remaining on the
field, were really of little more use than Barnes.
* • * •
“ Stumps ” : Third “ test ” will rank among
most remarkable ever played; it extended over double
the space allotted “down under.” For some time it
looked good odds against the Australians—a team of
cripples, batting up hill. The wicket made both sides
apprehensive, but it stood an aggregate of 1271 runs, and
though the existence of a cronk patch was often indi-
cated at one end, trundlers Gunn, Braund, and Jessop
failed to lob there on the last day. T’other wicket left
nothing needed ; it played true as a bowling green from
end to end of the match. Luck seemed well dis-
tributed three Britishers and two Australians
were run out. Chances niissed appeared “up and
up.” England would have given victors a great shaking
but for their ill-fortune in losing Barnes’ services. That
dicky spot would have been dropped on to by him early
and never lost sight of. Maclaren’s-confessed aim is_ to
win the toss and then pile up a big score for the opposing
side to go against. To an extent he managed this in the
last match, for the fourth innings saw Australia asked to
make over 300. How much Australia suffered through
Noble’s incapacity alone may be; gathered from the fact
that though his trundling in the second test looked
“jugglery” to Maelaren it didn’t rise any higherin the third
than getting three of the later wickets for 120; M. A.’s dash
was completely absent. Darling and Trumble are entitled
to much kudos. When they shaped together four of
Australia’s best were done .with for 194, leaving 121 still
to be made. This pair notched more than half the re-
quired balance, and when the end came Trumble was still
eligible to continue ; he also did well with the ball, and
rose to a big occasion in fine fashion. Throughout the
match 9 of the 15 wickets scattered by Australian bowlers
fell to Trumble ; his second innings average was 6 for 74.
On Wednesday morning odds looked much in favor of
England, but in the evening ’twas odds on the Australians.
» V • »
Clem Hill is top in first-class batting, so far,
with 806 runs for 14 innings, averaging 57. Maclaren’s
average of 52 (468 runs and 9 innings) is second.
* * • •
A.B. writes: Clem. Hill is getting very stout and
short-winded. His habit of patting his belt after the least
exertion worries his friends till the century is in sight.
After a sharp run in search of air, he almost resolves
himself and his bat into a D, the vertical representing
the bat. Duff is a dead shot with the ball. Trumper is
transformed when the captain throws him the ball. He
gives his cap away, and rushes, all arms and legs, for the
crease. The cr.owd is expectant, but generally it’s only
the mountain and the mouse all over again. Then both
shirt-sleeves are down, and must be nervously adjusted.
Also, his pants are supposed to be in danger, and get a
tug—and so on till he is called off. Batting, he
shows little of this perturbation. He nurses the bat
patiently between his pads, and, if luck is not against
him, does the right thing neatly. The Wheatfielders
roared their applause when his score began to look
decent. Trumper is exceedingly popular over there.
Braund, a great sprinter, is a tip-and-a-run player. He
would make a run off anything, fn the first innings
stolid little Quaife repeatedly refused to budge, but it
happened just the same. A. O. Jones coming in was led
into a dangerous run by the frisky Braund, whom he hotly
cautioned. As for Jessop, Bill Howell would play him at
his own game all the year round and come out on top
almost every time. From the spectator’s point of view
E. Jones was sadly missed. The dreary sameness of the
trundling would have driven the crowd to drink had it
not been England against Australia.
* • • •
“Stumps”: Persistence of those responsible in
selecting Bilowell for tests is unaccountable. Twenty
wickets for 850 runs in 11 matches is surely much below
proper endorsement. His record for the three latest tests
is three for 220. Will they trot him out again ? This is
Howell as a cricketer ; otherwise he fills the bill admir-
ably.
* • * *
Initial innings (Saturday) of N.S.W., in inter-
state match with Victoria, was remarkable for the
number of colts given a chance, a record beginning, and
a sensational collapse. Earlier stages saw Hopkins,
Poidevin and Charlie Gregory collar the bowling confi-
dently. At one time only three wickets had fallen for 310,
but subsequently Vic. bowler Saunders worked things his
own way and bagged wickets as if aiming at unprotected
ninepins. The long tail was sent back to the pavilion as
quickly as its sections put in an appearance, and with
only 17 more tacked on to the score. Hopkins
and Gregory, in fine style, supplied something that
has rarely been equalled, and certainly never ex-
celled, on the Sydney Cricket Ground. It isn’t known
that inter-State records embrace a better before lunch
accumulation than their 158 with no wickets down. They
also set up a first wicket “ best ” for inter-State cricket
by notching 165. Warne was c and b Gregory for 60 which
included no less than eleven tourers. Strangely enough
Warne got Hopkins too, but not till after he had gathered
117 (in which there were 23 fourers) during 2hrs. Bmin. of
unusually brilliant all round play. The second wicket
partnership added 55 in 34min. Poidevin was operating
lhr. 40min. for 82 got together through a superb innings
absolutely devoid of a single fault. This fine feat credits
Poidevin with an aggregate of 263 for twice out. Of
N.S.W.’s first 100, 88 came through fourers.
• * * *
Up to “ tea ” adjournment (4 o’clock), Vic. left-
hander Saunders had only one wicket for 51, but after-
wards he got Poidevin, Clarke, and M'Beath caught,
Carter stumped, and bowled Meares, while Kerihode was
missed off him. Saunders should have been credited
with seven for 51, and, as it was, secured six for 57—a
fine achievement on a flawless wicket.
• * 1 * . *
Heavy rain on Monday morning affected the
wicket unfavorably for Victorians who only compiled 152.
When the day’s doings closed N.S'.W. had 5 out for 116.
For latter side Hopkins failed to score, Poidevin only got
9, and Gregory 27, but Farquhar shaped well for 40i
Saunders (for Vic.) bowled up to his reputation, and
qualified for more than passing consideration, when the
team for the next test is being chosen, by crediting him-
self with 5 for 44. The attendance at any time never ex-
ceeded 8000—very poor in face of the fact that the day was
a public holiday. As The Bulletin goes to press the
Victorians are in their second innings, and three wickets
—Worrall, McAlister and Stuckey—are down for 239.
McCormack and Warne are batting, and the Victorians,
with seven wickets to fall, require 137 runs to win.
Worrall’s 106 was a handsome and timely contribution.
* * * *
Once forefront Australian trundler M'Kibbin,
in Perth v. Fremantle cricket match, Monday, gathered
in 9 wickets for 69, and made 35 runs in one innings.
Will he resurrect ?
* • ' • •
J. Harry (one of the picked Australian team
for England in ’96) figured in the match English 11 v.
Country 16 on M.O.C. ground Saturday and Monday, and
showed capital form for 58 not out.
• * * *
A nice point in cricket ethics cropped up in
Albert Park, Melb., a couple of Saturdays back. A ball
had been driven hard to leg, a fieldsman wept after it, and
threw in a ball which was taken by the wicket-keeper, who
whipped off the bails. Umpire gave it “ out,” and the
game continued. When that innings was. completed, it
was discovered that the game had been played out with a
strange ball which the fielder had picked up and thrown
in by mistake.
• • * »
The Australian love of sport! Melb. paper re-
cords : “A weary, perspiring knot of people stood out-
side Gaunt’s window a week or two ago, .with their eyes
glued to the big thermometer, watching, the mercury
climb higher. Suddenly there arose a feeble cheer. The
heat had topped the year’s record.”
* * * *
S.T.O. Challenge Stakes (Monday) went to
heavily-backed Kussley-Kingston 6-year-old mare Bother,
who cut the trip out in l-15i, and thus ran well up to her
second in Tatt.’s New Year’s Gift, won by Cast Iron.
Field (22) was large compared with those usually after the
same race, but in ’93 33 showed out, and, two years
before, 27 put in an appearance. Speedier performances
than Bother’s have been notched by Kirry and Fulminate
(1.13), and Gloria (1.14}). Bother is full sister to Luck-
now.
• * * *
Only seceders on the day from S.T.O. Anni-
versary Handicap were Blue Metal, Ace of Diamonds and
Superb. First two had been shaping better than any-
thing else on the track, and are worth having an eye on.
Blue Metal got through the best gallop of his life Friday
morning last week. Latest, done in 2.37}, is the speediest
Anniversary Handicap, barring Alemene’s 2.36} in ’99.
Last year’s winner, Dandy, came from same stable
(Kelso’s) as Lucknow, who is in the Australian Oup at
7.12, but will now have to hump a 101 b. penalty.
♦ » * •
The big S T.C. double—Challenge Stakes and
Anniversary Handicap—went to a sister and brother—
Bother and Lucknow. Lucknow annexed Trial Stakes
and Waverley Handicap at A. J.G. Spring gathering, but,
though much fancied and well-supported, failed to nearly
satisfy in Caulfield Cup and Randwick midsummer handi-
caps. Lucknow is short-pedigreed, by Russley from a
mare by a Kingston colt.
* * * •
At Randwick punters were watching greedily
for the letting loose of the Grand Flaneur—Rosecleer
filly—Rose Petal. On second day of S.T.C. meeting,
humping a pile of coin, she started first choice of nine.
Playing up a heap beforehand didn’t affect her much
apparently, as she won with a bit to the good.
* * * *
Winners of two last races of S.T.C. programme
on Anniversary day were got by Abercorn ; Essington
(Highweight Handicap) from Essie, and Newry (Farewell
Handicap) from Kilmorey.
• • * »
A little Sydney bookmakers’ movement is find-
ing a press voice to cry anathema on the Federal Govern-
ment for not stopping Tatts. sweeps. There is no need to
wonder at Mo’s objection to the sweeps : they give the
people a fair gamble, and very few bookmakers even
pretend to do that.
* • • *
Cordon, who dead-heated with Sirdar for
Launceston (Tas.) Cup, was only bought recently from
Randwick trainer Dick Wootton for 200 gs. The cup is
30 years old, and this is the first time the judge failed to
separate the first two. Heaviest weight humped was
Duration’s 9.7. Swiveller won with 9.5 ; Eiridsdale, 9.3 ;
Comedian, 9 ; Chaldean, 8.13 ; and Hobart, 8.10. Sirdar
is a five-year-old by Bill of Portland from Wood ISTyinph,
and Cordon is by Tucka Tuoka sire Gozo.
* * • *
How Australia does spread over the big thing of
Indian turfdom—the Viceroy’s Cup. Latest went to
Tamworth (N.S.W.) bred Tubal Cain, which ran second
in the same event last year, but this time must have been
branded good goods, for he lined up 9 to 2 against, with
the ex-Australian crack Severity favorite at sto 2. Other
Australian nags—Security and Alix—gained “ drums” as
named, and all three placed humped 9.3 each. A coinci-
dence is that Tubal Cain was in the same stable as the
’Ome nag, Up Guards—which appropriated the coveted
mug two years ago, and, like Tubal Cain, ran second the
year before. Of 11 starters, 10 came, from Australia,
while other was a Britisher—Bencher. This was the
biggest field that ever faced the flag, excepting the
year Metal got home, when 12 carried silk. Indian files
refer to the race as “ a fierce and a desperate struggle,”
Tubal Cain only winning by a “ bare head.” Subse-
quently, Tubal C. ran nowhere in the Cooch Behar Cup,
won by Standoff, another from these parts. Two more
Australians —Goldsmith and Henry—were winners
at the same meet. Which reminds that one of our
champions, Highborn, closed on the Cup first, over ten
years since, and won again in the following year. The
race has thrice gone to Satellite, Kingcraft aud Myall
King. In the last five years Leonidas, Vanitas, Cherry
and Up Guards have been successful.
■ ■ » •
Died the other day, aged 77, Noah Beal, for
many years trainer of the racehorses which the late
“ Bill ” Forrester had under his charge at Warwick Farm
(N.S.W.). He was one of the oldest trainers in the State,
and many Vic. sportsmen have especial reason to remem-
ber the preparation which he put on The Grafter and
Gaulus when they won their Melb. Cups.
* * * 0*
George Read, until last Saturday premier swim-
mer of this continent, and, if comparative times are re-
liable, of the world over some distances beyond 220 yards,
went under badly to Dick Cavill in the State’s half-mile
supremacy at Sydney Domain baths For 700 yards the
struggle was Homeric, each swimmer getting a few feet
ahead alternately. But, in the 15th lap, Cavill shot to the
front and streaked away. Read swam on awhile and then
stopped dead, and in spite of first, entreaties, and then
fervent objurgations of backers, climbed out and watched
Cavill break the world’s record by 16 seconds, Previous
best was the world’s professional, Nuttall’s, ,12.7}, which
stood nine years. Cavill did it in 11.511-5. J. A. Jarvis’
world’s amateur time was simply not in it.
Read’s collapse came like a bursting boiler to his
friends. Before the race they prophesied that to beat
him would be to create fresh world figures. And Cavill
did it. Cavill’s finish for the 300 yards’ blue ribbon,
when he almost snatched at the finish what at
50 yards looked a hopeless race, was an ill omen for his
next rival. His tenacity completely broke Read’s heart.
The man who is named after the politician disrespect-
fully spoken of in The Bulletin afterwards stated that
neither cramp or staleness had anything to do with his
collapse—it looked a simple case of “ chucking it.” He
faltered similarly in his first championship last year, and
would have stopped in the mile a few weeks back but his
friends let fly such a blizzard of curses that he was liter-
ally swept forward before it. Recently announced that
Lane and he were going to Britain, Read to beat all
amateurs and then wipe up the water with world-
champion Nuttall. In view of the developed tendency of
the Read tail to wilt suddenly, that little expedition is
not likely to eventuate. That Read is a phenomenon is
beyond question, but before he goes forth to spoil the
foreigner and carry a patron’s money he had better learn
to keep his tail up.
• * * *
It is seriously proposed to ship a M.L. amateur
athletic team to England for the championships at
Northampton a few months hence. The last Australasian
meet showed a lack of sprinters in the State. G. W.
Smith is the best, but would have little chance of
downing a top-notcher; in fact, half-a-dozen
better men might be found in the old country. Over
hurdles, however, the Aucklander should materialise
nearly every time. W. F. Simpson should more than
hold his own over long distances ; Madill, also, at jump-
ing and weight putting. Wilson is a good enough walker,
but his nasty habit of “ lifting ” would probably lead to
speedy disqualification. Anderson, a young Maorilander,
now in Bull’s country, who has been raking in sprints at
College sports, would run for the team if despatched.
Last crowd that left M.L. a few years ago didn’t shine to
any extent worth .talking about, although it included a
man who had publicly broken lOsecs. twice. But 0. A.
Bradley was top dog in England that year an&afterwards.
He was never able to break 10 during the whole of his
career, and didn’t believe any other amateur Could, either.
Apropos : McLauchlan, Maoriland’s best pro-runner, will
likely trip to Hingland and set his cap at some of the big
purses, the United Caledonian Societies bearing major
portion of the cost.
* * * *
At Sydney Golden Gate A.C., Saturday night,
Denny Moloney and Mat Mitchie fought twenty vicious
rounds, and although Denny made a gritty fight, the
miner-bruiser pasted him blue, and got away with 75 per
cent, of the spoil of the crowded house and the £lOO
posted by Denny’s unfortunate backer. From the in-
ception, bar flukes, it was Mitchie’s scrap, and unless
Denny holds off and effects considerable repairs he’ll be
permanently injured in his “ lamps.” He comes out of
every fight with damaged peepers, and long before they
have recovered he gets them smashed up again. If his
skill was equal to his grit he’d have a world reputation,
but, at present, they represent the two ends of the stick.


SILVER
BRUSNWARE.
fgd
FR€€TRAD€ PRICCS.
fg
Silver Hall-Marked Hair Brush,
Real Bristles -
17/6
Silver Hall-Marked Nail Brush,
Real Bristles -
9/6
Silver Hall-Marked Cloth Brush,
Real Bristles -
10/6
THE MODERN ART JEWELLERY CO.
187 PITT-ST., SYDNEY
(Next Shadier’s Cafi).
Something New.
... .THE N.S.W. ADDRESS 0F....
THE Massey-Harris Bicycle Department
of the Canada cycle and Motor Co., Limited,
8 357 George St., Sydney o pp. gpo
t.
PIEE BROS.
Brisbane. Townsville. London.
.. . RENOWNED SPECIALITIES .. .
SUPERIOR READY TO WEAR
INDIAN TROPICAL CLOTHING.
Exceptionally well cut and highly tailor-finished.
Made to our Special Order and Measurements in India.
FINEST ASSAM SILK - 0
COAT and TROUSERS - - /be
COATS—Single, D.-8., and Norfolk shapes. '
INDIAN TWILL FLAX--,«
COAT and TROUSERS - I i Q
COATS—Single, D.-8., Norfolk and Patrol shapes.
A Perfect Fit ensured by customers sending Height, Chest, Waist and Inside
Leg Measurements.
BSF Write for New Illustrated Catalogue (Commonwealth issue) and Samples.
We have won success, and stand right ahead as the
leading distributors of Milk, Butter, and other foods.
We can give you better service, better goods, and
greater satisfaction than others.
To have won Success
Cfte n.s.ui. « •
Tresb food $ Tee
£&. Etd., Sydney.
IS TO MERIT IT.
Please send for Illustrated Booklet, which explains
our system in interesting detail.
df
15c. Gold Flexible Bracelet, set with Pearls and Turquoise, £5 ss. The Latest Fashion.
JEWELLERY NOVELTIES
We receive each Mail from our London Buying Office.
No New Design but what we show here within a few weeks of London.
We cannot illustrate them in the papers—they come and go so quickly.
We invite you to call in, when passing, and see them.
You will find them as low as London.
London Prices.
Plain Figures.
Striotly Cash.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
vice-itegai jtmtor. 23 Hunter-St, Sydney.
In Solid 15c. Gold, 40/..
With choice Diamond,
Ruby and Sapphire, and
Enamel Brushes, £8 10s
per pair, in case.
Re SOCID RUBBER TttRES forUEHICtES.
m
7'. :
i
.. Hi
Si
&
/soITd
/ VfMIC
üBBt
ES
T t
DUN LOP-KELLY
Save all
NOISE, RATTLING,
and VIBRATION. .
They last for years on a private trap—the
life of which they double. They are wired
on by a process that absolutely prevents them
creeping or coming off. They will not chip
on the roughest of roads.
Solid
Rubber
raTSend for Artistic Catalogue and Price List to—
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Australasia, Ltd.,
150 Clarence-st., Sydney.
and at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane,
and Christchurch, N.Z,
A person named Marks, who holds some
position in the Japanese Consular service, spread
himself recently in a Sydney daily paper,
and informed Australia that the little brown
nation was very indignant that the Common-
wealth had not included Japanese among the
languages in which immigrants might qualify for
admission to Australia. Marks said the “domina-
tion of the Labor Party was responsible for the
difficulty.” Later on he said there was no danger
of the Japs coming here, as they were all required
to colonise and fill up Jap possessions, and gener-
ally implied that the Japs didn’t want to come.
Why there should be any indignation about the
shutting of a door they didn’t want open Marks
didn’t explain ; he rushed on to point out that, as
there was no Jap population here to speak of,
Australia would lose the large importing trade
which those Japs would have done in Jap goods
had they been here. He also explained that there
was no market in Japan for our products, so that
there couldn’t be any trade worth speaking of,
and then a very mixed Marks retired.
Daily paper report re Premier Seddon at
the Wellington (M.L.) anti - German demon-
stration :
Hence thej r understood the anguish which the worst of
the German slanders about the British army had caused
him. When he alluded to them there was a passionate
cry in his voice and there were tears in his eyes—that
“ our lads ” and the “ lads of the Imperial service ” should
have been the object of such deliberate falsehood filled
him with something more than righteous indignation.
He simply could not understand how anybody could be
so diabolical. “ You know the upbringing of our boys,
you know the character of them, you simply can’t believe
it."
Some of these “boys” have been allowed to
liberally decorate the press with ghoul-like alle-
gations about how they mutilated their dead
enemies, and cut off their fingers, and stuck bis-
ouits in their mouths in dreadful mockery, and
took their teeth for souvenirs, and otherwise to
talk as if a British army was a gang of Zulus or
Red Indians—all this without a word of protest
from the weeping Seddon. And now Seddon
can’t understand how anybody can have a low
opinion of the “ lads ” !
Mr. P. E. Quinn’s latest proposal in
regard to newspapers (what have the newspapers
done to Mr. P. E. Quinn ?) is that the State
should replace their “ unsatisfactory cable news ”
by a service run by the Agent-General. The cable
columns of the Australian dailies are, in all truth,
poor enough, essential news being often neglected
and an admixture of slops being always present.
But a news-service conducted by the N.S.W.
Agent-General, Mr. Henry Copeland, to the
dictation of Mr. O’Sullivan, Mr. See, or any other
knighted or unknighted Imperialist—what sort of
(say) war news should we have ? Why, when
W. P. Reeves, as Maoriland Agent-General,
dared to send out some .fairly-truthful and plain-
spoken messages (about actual battles, not about
opinions) half the local politicians denounced him
as a traitor and talked about “sacking” him.
Then the messages ceased to come and Maoriland
has since put up with the quarter-truths of the
dailies.
The fact that the State Premiers are not
to be guests of the British nation for the Corona-
tion shivoo has startled State politicians into
a realisation of their real positions—on the back
seats in public life. Barton represents the whole
Commonwealth now, and lie also represents See,
Philp and Peacock. He doesn’t represent
Seddon, of course, so Seddon goes on his own.
See and Philp and Peacock have banged
furiously on the public’s doorstep to prove that a
State Premier is no smaller a personage now than
before Federation, but the idea is growing all the
same that he. is really a very ordinary chap. A
rumor is about that the aggrieved ones are going
to assert their right to the same kind of invitation
that Barton gets by—asking for it. Query: Can
Peacock or See say whether the local Premiers of
Quebec, Ontario, Nova Scotia, &c., are going to
accompany the Canadian Premier to the Corona-
tion ? Quebec and Ontario are far more populous
places than N.S.W., yet what size do State
Premier Ross and State Premier Simon Napoleon
Parent look here? Then what size does State
Premier See look at the same distance ?
At Poverty Point.
Wallace Brownlow's writ against Sandringham House
Company (he walked through an open window in the
dark, and fell a mile, more or less) pleads for damages
running into thousands for concussion of the brain, con-
cussion of the spine, broken ribs, damaged ankle, and
minor cuts, breaks, bruises, and abrasions. It was a
tremendous fall and Brownlow is distinctly a man of high
descent.
Australia’s one-time idol and Bill Holloway’s mascotte,
Essie Jenyns (Mrs. J. R. Wood) has been appearing in
“ Ingomar,” at Newcastle (N.S.W.), giving three perform-
ances to raise funds t 6 complete the Newcastle Anglican
Cathedral. It is nearly 16 years since Essie Jenyns first
appeared in Sydney as Parthenia, at the old Opera House.
‘ ‘ C. 0.”: Me the Josephine Gassman controversy.
Josephine is a white lady—at least her open work stock-
ings suggest that nightly to any equally open-eyed ob-
server. Either Josephine is too absent-minded to blacken
the complexion of her legs—a complexion at variance
with her rich, brown skin—or she wishes to leave open
this loophole of escape from the charge of belonging to
that section of mankind which is rather more despised in
the Land of the Free than in other less advertised haunts
of liberty. Or, again, Josephine may be a brown lady
who whitens her legs by way of establishing an alibi, so
to speak.
“ The Circus Girl,” a drama modelled on “ The Arabian
Nights,” was given at Sydney Queen’s Hall on Wednesday
night, 22nd, by the Madge Hope co. Madge, herself, took
the part of the mother-in-law, and overwhelmed the whole
co. with her voice, which might have been heard down
at the School of Arts. Most of the lady performers were
too big for the men, and though many of the players were
more or less professional, they had the amateurish habit
of holding their heads down and delivering their speeches
to their skirt fronts. Miss Queenie Doyle, in the name-
part, was several sizes too large, and should have tucks
taken in all round her, to make her fit her role. When
she tried to wrestle against her numerous male admirers
she almost threw them over ; and as the dainty, little,
cheeky Gutta Percha Lady of the circus she was somewhat
clothes-proplike. The voice of the prompter rang loud
sometimes ; those on the stage appearing like echoes of a
recitation, and now and then the co. and the prompter
duetted in good time with each other. ;
Mabel Lane, back Do dtel nativb'Tand as a member of
Williamson’s “Ben Hur” dramatic co., had the honor
and glory of a semi-State reception at Melb. Town Hall
the other afternoon, with Mayor “ Sam ” Gillott presid-
ing, and welcoming the lady back to Australia in the
usual “ few eulogistic words,” and a lot of aldermen,
mostly named Maloney, buttering even more thickly than
the daily critics. Mabel left Australia an unrecognised
genius, angry, and vowing never to come back, but it is
a long Lane that has no returning.
It took two hours’ toil every evening to get the “ Death
chair,” which was the principal attraction of Holloway’s
“For the Sake of a Woman,”into lively working order.
Some tired person will be glad this special shriek is off.
A Melb. advt. of the “ World’s Entertainers ” show dis-
closes the fact that J. 0. Williamson has entered into
partnership with Lee, of Lee and Riall, who brought the
Entertainers to Australia. Said partnership seems to
have taken some weeks to get itself signed, sealed, and
delivered, but it existed in the form of a verbal arrange-
ment since Boxing Night. J.O.W. has introduced
“turns” from the “Entertainers” company into his
Sydney and Melbourne shows. On the other hand, the
services of poor Wallace Brownlow were transferred to
the variety co. All this happened subsequent to the
retirement of business-manager Love from the Lee and
Riall spec., and as it was Love who secured the lease of
Melb. Bijou in his own name, and Riall (in America) is
understood to be Love’s brother-in-law, the situation has
a rather unsettled appearance, though doubtless the
astute J.O.W. knows exactly how he stands.
The three Permans —Bella, Willie, and Percy—left Aus-
tralia 6i years ago with Hudson’s Surprise Party (by the
way, Tommy Hudson seems to have settled down in Aus-
tralia as business manager for George Musgrove) and
played six months in Calcutta before journeying to
London on their own. Found a market for their “ turn ”
within a week of their arrival at the Smoke. Presently
George Edwards gave them a three years’ engagement,
and when they were through with that they had a name
to trade with. Plenty of room in Great Britain and Ire*
land for some more Permans from Australia if they are
available, but somehow this country has not yet repeated
the Bella, Willie and Percy combination.
A shocked inhabitant writes: “ A certain actress is
wearing the most surprising tights ever exhibited to an
uneasy public these hot nights. The material is so thin
and elastic that, when the wearer strains a point, the hue
of the tights gives way to the rosy glow of the material
they pretend to hide.
“Albert Whelan made a capital hit (writes Tip
Bulletin’s Ltmdon correspondent) as Ichabod Bronson in
the revived “Belle of New York” at the Adelphi, now
the New Century Theatre. His whistling imitation of the
original Bowery Tough, Frank Lawton known ‘ out
there ’—rather discounted the new ‘ Tough.' Albert has
had to leave the cast, however, to keep his contract in the
panto, at Liverpool. No previous stage aspirant (no
’aspirate, please) has ever done so well here in so brief a
period as Albert, and if he stays, and can stay , he will
attain a Fred. Leslie position.”
It was at the production by a S.A. Amateur Dramatic
Club of a piece of the usual order, wherein the beauteous
heroine is wooed and pursued by the stage hero and villain
respectively. But in this case hero and villain were
deadly rivals off the stage, and, as the lady was very
pretty and well-gilt, the running was close and hot. Bet-
ting was almost even on their chances, till the villain,
near the end of act 11., had enticed the heroine into a
gloomy ravine, and was threatening her with dire things
if she didn’t hand over the missing will or something.
Then —just as the distressed one had raised her hands to
Heaven and was distractedly asking “ Where is he ?
Where is my gallant lover ? ” —there was a sudden crack
and the side of the ravine fell in, exposing to view the
gallant lover aforesaid—seated in his dressing-room and
attired solely in a painfully laconic shirt and a pair of
socks. The lady gave one horrified glance, and fled into
the wings, and rumor hath it that the accident simply
“ boiled ” the swain’s chances with the fair-one.
Note that the tricky young “ King of Coins ” in the
World’s Entertainers show has curly hair, like most men
who are born with a talent for “ taking down ” humanity.
Beware of the curly-headed, for theirs is the kingdom of
guile.
Thus, sarcastically, the Glasgow Eveninu News : “ Lady
Francis Hope (Miss May Yohe) proposes to settle down in
Japan with a small theatrical company, which will teach
the natives the ‘ joys ’ of comic opera and modern farce.
One would like to know what harm the Japanese have
ever done Lady Hope."
London Referee, of Nov. 17, said : “ Wilson Barrett
seems to have made a tremendous hit in Melbourne with
his new drama entitled ‘ The Christian King.’ ” Now,
who told the Ref. that W.B.’s play scored a tremendous
hit?
The “San Toy” souvenir, which will consist of a series
of sketches by Alf. Vincent, promises to mark a consider-
able advance in the art of etching and three-color print-
ing, as far as Melbourne experience goes. The local
Atlas Press has accomplished reproductions of Vincent’s
colored drawings and black and white sketches that are
hardly distinguishable from the originals. The paint
wash effect is free from all suspicion of lithography in two
or three instances.
Maggie Moore departs once again for America on Feb.
18th, or thereabouts, to get some new pieces to work
with. Maggie’s present stock of dramas looks somewhat
faded. For that matter, nobody but Maggie could have
made money hereabouts by playing those dramas—or the
worst of them, anyway—when they were new.
Bland Holt, whose tenancy of Melbournaßoyal expires
at the end of 1902, has decided to renew lease for a
further five years’ term. Also, he is nearly certain to
continue his present season at the Royal until next Xmas,
or later. This apropos of several newspaper announce-
ments that Bland would shift his position to Sydney at
Easter. Theatrical rumors are usually unfounded and
frequently mad. One recent story was to the effect that
Williamson, Musgrove and Hudson had formed a combine
for the control of all the Melbourne theatres, except
Rickards’s.
There’s a scheme afoot to establish a world’s circuit, on
which variety companies will go like a bagman on his
regular rounds. It will probably commence in Chicago,
include Honolulu, M.L., Australia, India, London, New
York, &c. There is talk of the circuit being established
during the present year.


PHOSFERINE
The Greatest of all Tonics.
m
‘V fl< i Sv- r^rfTr
. Phoseerine is the most powerful Nerve and Recuperative
Tonic known. It removes Mental Depression, want of Tone and
Nerve Power. It lias remarkable Health-giving, Strength-giving,
Energising, and Rejuvenating properties.
No other Medicine has received such absolute proof of its
extraordinary properties in restoring Shattered Constitutions, and
in giving back to the prematurely aged New Life and Energy.
It is an unfailing remedy for Neuralgia, NervOUS Dys-
pepsia, Anaemia, Brain-Fag, Depression, impoverished Blood,
Rheumatism, Sleeplessness, Indigestion, Influenza, Nervous
Headaches, Debility, and all disorders consequent upon a
reduced state of the nervous system.
ROYAL COMMANDS.
Pliosferine enjoys the distinguished honour of having been supplied bv commands to
MEMBERS OF THE BRITISH ROYAL FAMILY.
HH HH HH HH Hrt
• . . . .
M. the Empress of Russia.
. the King of Greece.
. the Queen of Roumania.
M. the Dowager Empress of Russia
H.theHereditary Princess oiLeiningen
11.1. H. the Grand Duchess of Russia.
H.R.H. the Crown Princess of Routnania.
H.I.H. the Grand Duchess Serge of Russia.
H.R.H. the Grand Duchess of Hesse.
H. I. H. the Grand Duchess Xenia of Russia.
And the principal Royalty and Aristocracy throughout the World.
No other Medicine has been awarded this uni jue distinction of Royal favor,
and it speaks volumes for the wonderful restorative properties of Phosferine.
CURES
Neuralgia,
Sciatica,
Lumbago,
Gout,
Rheumatism,
Impaired
Vitality,
Debility,
Brain Fag,
Weakness,
Nervous
Exhaustion,
Melancholia,
Impaired
Digestion, etc.
m
A
Vitalizing:
Tonic,
Imparting
New Life
and
Energy
to the
Entire
System.
CAUTION.
GENUINE PHOSFERINE.
Ashton St. Parsons, Ld., 17 Farringdon Road, London,
the original and only genuine makers of PHOSFERINE find it necessary to
put the public on their guard against mendacious imitations of their well-known
medicine that are being offered for the sake of extra profit.
It is necessary, when purchasing Phosferine, to see that it bears the name of
the genuine makers, viz. :
Ashton ;& Parsons, Ltd,, 17 Farringdon Road, London
PREPARED IN THREE SIZES.
fW The Second Size contains nearly four times the Smallest Size.
The "Genuine Phosferine can be obtained from Washington H.
Soul <St Co,, Pitt Street, Sydney, and all respectable Chemists.
Wlio'esnte A</ent.s :SA 1' EUS. A F.LI’OHT FOTTEIi, SYDNEY.
s
RINGS.
In 1 lb. Round Flat Tins.
Manufacturers :
JOHN MOIR Sl SON, LIMITED,
LONDON, ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE.
Head Office 9 & 10, Great Tower Street, London, E.G.
PUIiVEYORo BY SPECIAL, APPOINTMENT TO HIS MAJEoTY THE KING.
AWARDED “ GRAND PRIX,” 1900.
See the Marvellous results obtained with the
No. 1 Panoram
KODAK
Which takes Wide Panoramic Pictures, 7in.
x 2£in., and is Loaded and Un-
loaded in Daylight; also the
No. 3 Folding Pocket
KODAK
Taking Pictures 3|in. x 4£in„ fitted with
Rapid Rectilinear Lens, Brilliant View
Finder, made of aluminium.
Send for Illustrated Leaflets, and
mention this Paper.
To be obtained of all Dealers throughout
Australasia, or of—
AwKODAK Ltd.
THE BLOCK,
284 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Fop Asthmatic people who sutler from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault's Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, out short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
GRIMAULT & Co., Paris. Sold by all Chemists.
gfd
Dr. J. W. GIBBS’
. . Electric Massage Rollers . .
For use on Face and Body.
For NERVOUS HEADACHES,
NEURALGIA and RHEUMATISM
—a specific. Removes Wrinkles.
Gold, 21/- Silver, 16/-
Post Free. Pamphlets Free.
AMERICAN AGENCY COMPANY,
Box MO, G.P.0.,
Melbourne.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
TOOTH
POWDER
IS THE BEST DENTAL
PRESERVATIVE.
Has the Largest 'Sale of any Dentifrice.
Sold by Chemists, Stores, &e.
F. C. CALYERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
30 Days’ Trial.
g
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
APPLIANCES
a trial of 80 days before
payment, whioh is fully
explained in our “ ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electrio
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Beit that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we. promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
ORNAMCNTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers a. Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Hum an Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
I'AP" Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia.
CRAIG- & AITKEKT,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 Georgre Street, Sydney.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Eight Different Articles,
comprising Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Casket (a good
trick), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing overlOOCoin
and Card Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard
Fish (gives definition of your- character), That Wonderful
Cinematograph or Book of Living Pictures, Mafeking
Grub (or nerve-strengthener), That side-splitting Look
and Laugh Glass, and,.last of all, The Spider and the Fly
(an ingenious mechanical toy). Instructions enclosed.
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
X
710 George-street, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
“Quad*” : A host of causes will be ready
for trial immediately the N.S.W. Arbitration
Court has been constituted and a general attempt
will be made by the workers to reorganise in-
dustrial conditions. Among the first cases likely
to be brought before the Court is that of the wharf
laborers, followed by the cold storage employees
who desire to bring their trade under the eight
hours’ system with an increase in the wages for
day work and overtime ; the tailors, who are
determined to effect a complete change in the
existing conditions, and probably the tailoresses.
With the latter, however, it is likely that the
matter will be brought forward by a section of the
employers and not by the employees, the former
having affirmed the desirability of the application
of a common rule to the trade as a remedy for
sweating.
More news of the coming of our beloved
colored fellow-subject as told in a letter to Ararat
( Vic. ) Chronicle :
On getting to Warracknabeal, on the look-out for work
recently, I was struck by the large number of Hindus
looking for employment. I was one of about 20 whites and
there were, 1 should say, about 14 Hindus. The Hindus
to the number Of six obtained work, while we poor white
niggers had to stand by. Imagine our chagrin at having
gone to the Mailed under the impression that there Was
plenty of work at 7s. per day of 16 hours. I left Warrack
and went to Bangerang, where I found that the niggers
had possession of the field. I then went to Morton Plains,
and travelled the district through, with the same result.
I then left for Birchip, and found the niggers winnowing
there at the rate of X)d. per bag, and a large number of
whites seeking employment and unable to obtain a day’s
work. I then went on to Donald, and counted 26 swag-
men out of work. Afterwards, returning towards
Bangerang, about half-way I saw 15 men that had not got
any work for the season. I then got to Birchip, boarded
the train, and returned to my native home at Ararat.
Melbourne Tocsin has collected statistics
regarding the attendances of various members of
the House of Reps, last Federal Session. Those
two worthy Freetraders, G. H. Reid and Bruce
Smith, show as the laziest legislators, each having
been absent from 71 sittings (more than half the
total number). W. G. Spence, T. Brown, and F.
F). M'Lean are three other N.S.W. members who
were absent from over 40 sittings, and out of 32
members who were absent from 20 or more sittings
18 came from N.S.W. Some of these N.S.W.,
members are always whining about a dreadful
Melbourne conspiracy in the Federal Parliament
to trample on their State. Their consistent
failure to attend and keep an eye on that con-
spiracy shows that they don’t take their own myth
any too seriously.
Patents for Inventions. —Arthur Griffith
and Allen, International Patent Agents and Con-
sulting Engineers, University Chambers, Phillip-
street, Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyrights
throughout the world.*
Geelong gaol continues to be enlivened by
the adventures of prisoner Rampage or Ramage.
T’other Sunday Ramage rebuked another prisoner
with a waddy. He was reported and ordered to
appear before the visiting justices. This unusual
severity—for Geelong gaol—so annoyed Ramage
that he spent some time inventing new variations
of cursing, and then bailed up a handy warder and
reviled him freely. Being ordered to his cell he
stepped speedily across to the woodyard, grabbed
an axe, and started to make trouble. By a trick
he was got into a barred corridor, and then
the warders spent some time urging him
tenderly to give up the axe and be a good
Ramage once again. Finally, he was hand-
cuffed, but broke away again while being searched,
mounted the stairs past a wicket-gate that was
supposed to be locked but wasn’t, and took a
header to the stone floor 50ft. below. His hand-
cuffs caught in the railings and Ramage hung
there while the warders besought him to let him-
self be locked up “ peaceable and quiet.” This
was doubtless one of those minor “troubles
among invalids in confinement ” referred to by
Inspector-General Evans in reporting on the
gaol; but Ramage seems a lusty sort of invalid
and the gaol an invigorating sort of hospital.
“ APENTA”
Natural Aperient Water is the Best Eliminant.
“An ideal purgative ’’—The Practitioner.
THE SAFEST AND MOST RELIABLE
HOUSEHOLD APERTENT.
GIVES IMMEDIATE RELIEF.
Anent the Age, “ J.G.” writes :
David Syme has organised the whole concern and
welded the'brains of his literary craftsmen to his way of
thinking just as Ignatius Loyola created the Society of
Jesus. The Age has of late years been living on its
prestige, which is waning with its creator’s life, but it
would take vears of bad management to spoil the
journalistic structure which has been built up by David,
and which is as fully within his grip to-day as it was 20 years
ago. In his room, on the first floor, King David has the Age
under the same disciplined control as the captain in
his conning-tower exercises over a battleship. On the
latter, however, mechanical obedience is alone required.
On the Age every literary unit has to carry responsibility,
exercise judgment, and put some original ability into his
work. Yet everything pans out serenely. Next to the
boss organiser, a great deal depends on the sifter, com-
monly called the sub-editor, who has a big say in the
success of a newspaper. The sub-editor of a big daily
should get the salary of a Supreme Court judge. In
Stephens the Age undoubtedly has a first-class sub-editor.
His temperament has a lot to do with it. No matter how
big or tortuous the stack of “ copy ” in front of him, he is
as cool as a frozen fish. Even those poor devils, the
suburban correspondents, who graft on their lines, speak
well of him as a man who tries to give them a show.
Perhaps only journalists and politicians really understand
and appreciate the skill and dexterity with which the
Age is worked in any political crisis. Who Will conduct
the Age after David Syme passes over to the
scrutiny of the Editor of all things? Will Herbert
Syme, assisted by his father’s trusted henchmen, run the
show, or will the boys share equally in the control of this
splendid revenue-producer ? The retirement of Windsor
took away one builder of the paper. Schuler, who is
now in the editorial chair, understands the Symes
thoroughly, and will, no doubt, make a good supervisor.
H. H. Champion used to be considered by a number of
people as the only man to succeed Windsor, but any man
who knew Champion could see that he would never sink
his individuality in the paper. Apart from his aspirations
for public honors, Champion is dominated by a supreme
belief in his intellectual powers, and has not that crafty
discretion that the editor of the Age must possess.
Literary ability is, after all, a secondary qualification for
the position.
TO "DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
Martin’s Apiol and Steel Pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia, price 4s. 6d.
Agents: Sayers, Allport, and Potter, Sydney.*
Advt. from Age, 15/l/’O2 :
mo Let, furnished, single Bedroom, kitchen, bath,
-I and use of all, with widow
Oh, Dawvid ! Dawvid !
SORE EYES.
The remedy—Morris’s Imperial Eye Ointment
—is acknowledged the only certain remedy ; never
fails to give instant relief. Refuse all others and
get the genuine. Pots 2s. Sold everywhere.*
Croydon (Q.)* Mining" News reports that,
in December last, some black troopers coaxed a
giant blackfellow in toNormanton from a hundred
miles out. He stood 6ft. 7in. without socks—
probably the tallest aborigine in Australia.


Agents wanted in every town to repre-
sent US. Liberal Commission.
Davies Franklin Cycle Co., Ballarat, Victoria.
Business, memory, figures —“ a business
man’s book, really a useful little work, gives a host
of sound business maxims and valuable hints.” —S. E.
News.- “The memory system is ingenious.”—S.M. Herald.
“ Crowded with curious short cuts of calculation ; should
lead on to fortune.”—S.D. Telegraph. Postal note, Is.
J. O. COX, DARLING ST„ BALMAIN, SYDNEY.
LADIES
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FR BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address—L.D.l., 300 Collins Bt., Melbourne
Sore Eyes ! Blight t
USED 300 YEARS.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
Never fails. Restores Eyelashes .
. HAD FROM ALL CHEMISTS.
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYESIGHT.”
Ask your Chemist for this little book.
Musical Instruments, &o.
Cheapest House in Australia for EDISON
PHOnOfißnPHSjnd RECORDS
REEVES & CO.
KINO WILLIAM STREET, ADELAIDE <
‘BIJOU,” with 6 Records
£1 17 6
5 10 O
8 lO O
EDISON’ “ STANDARD,” with 24 Records ..
EDISON “ HOME,” with 30 Records..
COMBINATION A 1 “ GRAND,” taking both
Large and Small Records, with 12 Records,
6 Concert (siin.) Records, and Large Horn
EDISON RECORDS, English and American, 20/-'perdoz.
CONCERT (s£in.) RECORDS .. .. 60/-
10 10 o
Send for Cata-
logues contain-
ing 5000 Selec-
tions to choose
from; Illustra-
ted Catalogues
of Electric Fans
(complete with
Battery, £5),
Electric Bike
Lamps, Flash-
Lights,Scarf-Pin
Lights, Vapour
Bath Cabinets,
etc., Free.
Records can
be posted to any
address, postage
1/6 per dozen.
df
Machines carefully packed and forwarded to any part of
Australasia. ,
Publications.
TRlChntGy
AStudvof BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, By Dr.
ALFRED NEALE. Posted 7d.
SKIN DISEASES
and their Treatment.
Posted Is Id.
Publishers : Turner anti Henderson, SYDNEY,
THE BALLET GIRL
gf
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, is.
Send stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties.
Madame Panza,—
913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
One Hundred and Seventh Half-Yearly Report
—op ■'■ V l£ -
The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney
LIMITED.
Presented to the,Shareholders at an Ordinary General -Meeting held at the Head Banking House,
George Street, Sydney, on Tuesday, 21st January, 1902.
THE Directors submit to the Shareholders a Balance "Sheet showing the Liabilities and Assets of the
Bank on the 31st December, 1901, and present the following report:—
The balance at the credit of Profit and Loss Account, after deducting rebate on current bills and
accrued interest on fixed deposits, reducing premises account, paying note tax, providing for land and
income taxes, and bad and doubtful debts, and granting to the Officers a bonus on
their salaries, amounts to ... ... . y ... . ~.. ... ••• £74,137 19 0
out of which the Directors recommend the following appropriations : ,
To the payment of a dividend for the half-year at the rate of 10 per; cent, per annum £50,000 0 0
„ Balance being Undivided Profit .. .. A .* .. 24,137 19 0
3 £74,137 19 0
. —————
During'the half-year a contract has been entered into to purchase the three buildings in Barrack
Street adjoining the Head Office. This purchase will provide any additional office accommodation
that may be required in the future. In the meantime the property will give a fair return.
The Dividend, free of Income Tax, is-now payable.
i • r v GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman.
In moving the adoption of the Report, the Chairman, Mr. Gf. J. Cohen said
“ Comparing the figures of this Balance Sheet, in accordance witti our usual custom, with those of the corres-
ponding.period of. the previous year, it will be seen that, while on the debit side there has been a shrinkage of
£112,900 in Bills:in Circulation,'the other items show an'increase of-£778,000, viz.:—
Notes in Circulation .. .. £21,000
Deposits and other liabilities .. ... ~ ......i. .. £758,000
or, taken-altogether, a total increase of £670,000 on the figures of 3lst December, 1900.
Turning to the Credit Side, the Balance Sheet discloses a position,-of considerable strength, our Liquid Assets
havihjf increased by £676,000 to £5,790,000, or, in other words, to about 43-per cent, of oUr Liabilities to the Public.
.The principal increases are : ;
-Coin and Bullion .. .. -si y.- .. .. .. .. £357,000
Cash at Bankers .. .. .. .. .. -.. c •• .. .. •• 786,000
Remittances in Transit .. ~ .. .. 164,000
During the half-year we have provided for the shrinkage in value, of our British and Australian Government
securities. We now hold £601,000 in the former Stocks.'” , >ir..
Dr.
LIABILITIES AND ASSETS. Or,
(Including London Branch to sist December by Cable.)
To Capital.. .. £1,000,000 0 0
„ Reserve Fund.. 1,010,000 0 0
~ Reserve Capital 1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
To Capital Paid-up £1,000,000 0 0
~ Reserve Fund.. 1,010,000 0 0
„ Notes in circulation
~ Bills in circulation ..
~ Deposits and other liabilities
„ Profit and Loss Account ..
£2,010,000 0 0
535,641 0 0
981,508 16 1
11,970,613 18 10
81,257 12 '2
£15,585,021 7 ;!•
By Coin and bullion
' in hand ..
„ Cash at Bankers
„ Government se-
curities..
~ Queensland Go-
vernment Notes
~ Remittances in
transit ..
~ Notes and bills
of other banks..
£2,430,900 4 10
1,022,788 1 6
1,190,367 10 8
35,721 0 0
1,086,116 7 11 .
24,984 8 1
debts
Bills discounted, and all
due to the Bank
Bank premises, furniture, &c.
£5,790,883 13
9,360,087 14
434,450 0
0
1
0
£15,585,021 7 1
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Rebate on current bills .. ... .. £7,119 13 2
~ Dividend Account for payment of a
Dividend for past half-year at the rate
of 10 per Gent, per annum .. .. 50,000 0 0
„ Balance of undivided profit carried to
next half-year .. 24,137 19 i 0
£81,257.12 2
By Amount undivided from last half-year £22,888 19 7
Profit for Half-year ended 31st Decem-
ber, 1901 .. ... ... 58,368 12 7
£81,257 12 2
RESERVE
1901—December 31st.. ~
FUND.
£1,010,000 o o
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman.
T. A, DIBBS, General Manager.
A. J. SOUTAR, Accountant.
/ > . ; Sydney, 10th January, 1903
We hereby certify that we have examined the bills, compared the balances and counted the coin in the Head
Office 'of The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney, Limited, a,tid4iave compared the returns of the Branches, and
have found the same as specified in the foregoing Balance Sheet.
E. S. CAPE
F. T: HUMPHERY
Auditors.
The following, resolutions w6re carried unanimously
“That th€ Report and Statements Of Account be received and adopted, and ordered to be circulated among
the Proprietors/’ I
“ That the thanks of the Shareholders be'presented to the Directors, General Manager and Officers of the
Bank for their very satisfactory management of the affairs of the institution.”
T. A. DIBBS, General Manager.
The Trustees, Executors, and Agency Company Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1878.
directors.
P R. GODFREY, Esq., Chairman.
ROBT. MURRAY SMITH Esq C.M.G., Vice-Chairman. ■ m t 0
JOHN GRICE Eso I O. M. OFFICER, Esq. I HON. J. M. PRATT, M. . .
’jAS. BORROWMAN, Manager. FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
CAPITAL.
Subscribed, £150,000. Further Reserve Liability, £150,000. Paid-up, £90,000.
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits, £11,641 as. 9a.
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts, and Clients at 31st December, 1901, £6,569,542 16s. Bd.
THURSDAY, 30th INST., at 11 o’clock. .
JjUbliN JjOO , 1 rt/TI
1 To receive the directors’ report and balance-sheet for the half-year ended 31st December, 1901.
2! To elect two auditors in place of Messrs. Paterson and Cleveland, who retire, but who are eligible for
s. to ssskss? sasrjs ssttis#-* ■»*> ««* <*»
have been given. REPORT.
The amount remaining at credit of profit and loss account and available for distribution is £6,641 Bs. 9d., which
the directors recommend should be appropriated as follows. - . .
To dividend on-£90,000 for half-year ended 31st December, 1901, at the rate of
5 per cent, per annum . •• •• •• •• " ,’™ 3 a
To balance to be carried forward .. «• «• •• •• •• _]
By order of the board.
412 Oollins-street. Melbourne. 14th January. 1902.
£6,641 3 9
JAS. BORROWMAN, Manager.
The Trustees, Executors, and Agency Company Limited,
Profit and Loss Account, Half-year ended 31st December, 1901
Dr.
1901—December 31.
To salaries, directors’ and auditors’ fees,
including- agencies
To stationery, postage, and office expenses
To printing and advertising
To furniture and fittings .. .. ..
To la'ft costs .. ••
To difference In amount paid and received
on lease, 37 Queen-street ..
To difference in amount paid in connection
with mortgage on premises and re*;
ceived on investment of £21,400
To balance carried down ... ..
1901—June 30.
By Balance
Less dividend at the rate of 6 per cent,
per annum
£6,108 7 3
2,250 0 0
1901—December 81.
By interest on mortgages, stock, &c. ..
By commission and miscellaneous receipts,
after providing for contingencies
By company’s premises—
Kents .. .. ~ .. £252 12 2
Less rates, lift, and repairs 210 13 3
£3,858 7 3
575 9 4
7,904 14 4
41 18 11
£12,380 9 10
1901—December 31.—8 y balance ..
£6,641 3 9
Statement of the Trustees, Executors, and Agency Company Limited,
For the 31st day of December, 1901.
I, Janies Borrowman, Manager of the Trustees, Executors, and Agency Company Limited, do solemnly and
sincerely declare— j ,
That the £ the e coni,Ku"v B is £S?JOJX)O, divided into 200,000 shares of two pounds ten shillings each
(with a-further reserve liability of two pounds ten shillings each).
That the number of shares issued is sixty thousand, the whole Of Which are JjMwH under
That calls to the amount of one pound ten shillings per share have beert made, amounting to £90,000, under
which the sum of £90,000 has been actually and botta-fide received in money.
That the assets and liabilities of the companyon the 31st December, 1901, were as follow ;
Dr.
BALANCE-SHEET 31st DECEMBER, 1901.
Cr.
Capital—
Subscribed .. .. ..£150,000 0 0
Less uncalled l. .. 60,000 0 0
60,000 shares paid up to £1 10s. per share.. £90,000 0 0
Reserve fund (used in the company’s busi-
ness) .. 5,000 0 0
Money owing on open account, &c... . • 800 0 0
Debt due on mortgage of freehold pro-
perty .. .. 20,000 0 0
Profit and loss account.. ... .. ... 6,641 3 9
£122.441 3 9
Investments—
Inscribed stock, at par, held by the
Treasurer of Victoria
Inscribed stock, at par
Money lent on mortgage, at face value .
Money advanced to estates and benefi
ciaries, at face value
Investments set aside to meet mortgage on
freehold property—
£2ooo Melbourne and
Metropolitan Board of
Works 3£ per cent, de-
bentures at cost .. £1,967 10
Money lent on mortgage,
at face value
Australian Deposit and
Mortgage Bank—
Deposits, at face value.. 14,000 0 0
2800 £6 preference
shares at £1 per share 2,800 0 0
£lO,OOO 0
3,400 0
5,011 12
10,880 7 0
2,632 10 0
21,400 0 0
£50,691 19 4
Freehold property at cost ..£69,348 2 10
Less written off .. . • 4,348 210
65,000 0 0
Furniture and fittings at cost £954 410
Less written off .. .. 454 410
6OO 0 0
Debts due to the company other than those
above mentioned, amounts paid in ad-
vance, &c. .. . • • • • • • • 824 18 6
Cash to credit in Bank of Australasia .. 5,424 6 0
TRUST, EXECUTOR, AND AGENCY BUSINESS.
Contingent and. Other Liabilities, otherwise than in
respect of any of the abQvementioned Items.
Amount at credit of estates, trusts and
clients, represented by investments
and cash at bankers, as per contra . .£6,569,542 16 8
£6,£>69,542 16 3
Contingent Assets.
Advance on mortgage of real estate . .’£1,066,412 3 6
Debentures and stock 915,938 4 3
Landed property 2,503,536 16 4
Other securities .. .. •• •• 1,089,185 6 7
Cash at bankers at credit qt trust current
accounts .. 94,470 6 7
£6,569,542 16 3
g
FREE
fg
A Beautiful Solid GOLD RING Set with a Genuine Garnet.
ISO MONEY WANTED.
Simply send us your name and address, plainly written on a.postal card, and we will send you
20 packages of our Imperishable Violet Perfume in a box— free of all expense to you. You
then sell the perfume among your friends and neighbours at 6d a package (|f y°u can), and
when sold you remit us the money you have collected and we will send you Absolutely Free
for your trouble the above described ring, which is stamped and warranted Solid Gold,
set Y with a Genuine Garnet. Remember you have no duty or charges of any kind
to pay— both the perfume and premiums are sent absolutely Free of all charges. Our
obiect in making this marvellous offer, and giving such unusual fine premiums, is to get our
very superior perfume into the hands of the public immediately, as we are satisfied that everyone
wi'i be so welf pleased with it that they will gladly recommend It to their friends we have
hundreds of unsolicited testimonials. You simply send your name and address plainly written
on a post, card, and we will send the perfume. No money required. We take all risk. Goods
returnable if not sold. Remember we pay all Shipping Expenses.
NATIONAL SUPPLY CO Dept. F. 38 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
For that Spot!
The only guaranteed
Hair Restorer.
USF
Hi
%Tomc
f
Obtainable from G. Swift, 292, Collins-st., Melbourne,
Viet, price 8/- post 3/9, full course, 6 bot. post 19/2.
NO DOUBT you have spent pounds in experimenting with so-called
Hair Restorers (?) without receiving any benefit from them,
and naturally you are somewhat sceptical as to the merits
of any new remedy that is placed oh the market for restoring the
hair to bald patches, &e.
The proprietor of Capilla Hair Tonic is prepared
to treat you free of charge, just to convince you
that Capilla Hair Tonic will actually restore your
hair to all its old-time vigor. Could you wish
for any stronger guarantee than that ? Testimon-
ials and “ A Treatise on the Hair” posted free to
any address on receipt of post card or letter.
Capilla Hair Tonic is obtainable at all chemists &
storekeepers 2/6 per bottle ; or by post 3/2 ; full
course 17/2 from the Proprietor, W. RICHARDS,
14 Imperial Arcade, Sydney.
Take No Substitute
Now
Ready.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH
• :v - ' • ' •' • •
Prioe 6d Posted 0*3..
Mulgrave Central sugar mill (N.Q.) man-
ager has invented a machine for feeding the
carrier. This consists of revolving chains with
combsrattached a few feet apart. These drag the
cane fr-om the trucks into the carrier. It can be
raised .or lowered as required by an operator at a
wheels Machine requires one man at each wheel,-
and oue man to tend the trucks, so four men do.
what formerly employed eight or nine.
N.S.W. Supreme Court decision, that a.
publican must always keep his license on the pre-
mises, to be produced when demanded by the
police, deals a blow at the tied-house business,
and has annoyed the big brewers considerably.
At present, most publicans’ licenses are in the big
safe in the brewery. The great beer-makers will
now have to go to the expense and trouble of de-
vising fresh means of breaking the law which
forbids a man to hold more than one license.
“C.Q.”: Saw in Bulletin about the
legend that some blind people can tell the color of
a horse by the sound of its trot. I saw the experi-
ment tried once at a blind asylum. A visitor
spoke of the legend, and a man rose up and said
it was quite true. He offered to demonstrate, and
the pair waited at the gate till a horse came by
close to their side of the road. The color was
given correctly. Then another horse passed, on
the far side of the road, and the experiment failed
utterly, the explanation given being that it was
going on the grass where the click of its shoes
couldn’t be heard. The visitor, was much im-
pressed, despite the partial failure. He was
somewhat less impressed afterwards when he
learned that he hadn’t got hold of a blind patient
at all, but only of a humorous fellow-visitor who
was too near-sighted to see across the road.


Missing Friends.
I F JAMES PINNINGTON (son of Richard
1 Pinnington) formerly of Rochdale, England
(or his widow or children, if any) who left Roch-
dale about 1877 and went on board the Highflyer
and landed at Maryborough, Queensland, and who
subsequently lived at Maryborough aforesaid and
worked there as a painter and laborer, and is re-
ported to have been at one time on the Tweed
River and at Sydney, New South Wales, will
communicate with BRIERLEY & HUDSON,
Solicitors, Rochdale, England, he will hear of
something to his advantage. And information as
to the said James Pinnington subsequent to 1887
will be thankfully acknowledged.
The Bulletin Story Book
Prloe, 4s. Gd„ direct from the Publishers.
The following advt. appeared in Argus of
21/9/’O2 :
T)ARK Youth, gentleman, would like situation in
very rich people’s place, but they must be high-
• n , and even if they are rich and low-horn, they
need not apply; well-educated French and English
foreigner. Wages, 20s. or 255. and keep ; no Sunday
work. Four years in Australia, and three years in
one place only, and is still in situation. Address,
J- . street, Burnley.
The Bulletin lias great pleasure- in giving this
advt. further publicity so that the rich and well-
born may sprint to Burnley before the dark youth
is snapped up.
_____ Amusements.
EMPIRE ~T HE A T REi SYDNEY.
. Castlereagh-street. next Fire Station.'
Betvveen Bathurst and Liverpool Streets.
MATINEE NEXT SATURDAY AT 2.30.-»ffl
The Funniest, Wittiest, Irish Comedv,
MULDOOK’S picnic.
First Appearance, THE WARSAW BROTHERS,
The Clever Musical Comedy Sketchists.
PRICES—2s., Is. and 6d. Children Half-price, except 6d
seats. MATINEES, Children Half-price All Parts.
UER MAJ ESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ ■ Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
J. O. WILLIAMSON’S GRAND ITALIAN OPERA CO.
LAST THREE NIGHTS.
THURS., JAN. 30, OTELLO. FRIDAY, JAN. 31, FEDORA.
SATURDAY, FEB, 1, Specially-Selected Programme.
Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls,' 6s. ; Subscriber's
Tickets, ss. in books of 40. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
THEA T R E ROYAL, SYDNEY.
■ Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. O. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas. W. E; Bryer.
Every Evening, at 8.
Matinees at 2 Every Wednesday and Saturday.
FAREWELL PERFORMANCES of
the Charming, Funny, Frolicsome, Entertaining Fairy
Pantomime, entitled.
ALICE IN WONDERLAND,
S2sr Prices as Usual. Plan.at Elvy and Co.’s.
DAtAC E THEATRE, SYDNEY.
* Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Charles Arnold.
EVERY EVENING. EVERY EVENING.
CHARLES ARNOLD
(prior to his immediate return to London)
in J. M. Barrie’s Great London and- New York Success,
THE PROFESSOR’S LOVE STORY,
FAREWELL MATINEE, WEDNESDAY NEXT, FEB. 5.
THE NEW TARIFF—3s., 25., Is. 6d.- and Is.- Nightly.
Plan at Paling’s. EDWIN GEACH, Manager.
THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. William Anderson.
TO-NIGHT at 8 o’clock TO-NIGHT
A GREAT AND GLORIOUS SUCCESS
of the latest Englis ramatic purchase,
FOR A CHILD’S SAKE.
PRICES—3s, 2s and ONE SHILLING. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
CR ITERIO N THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the direction of Mr. Charles Holloway.
EVERY EVENING EVERY EVENING
OVERWHELMING AND MAJESTIC TRIUMPH OF
Mr. CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S COTERIE OF
POPULAR PLAYERS,
in the Powerfully Sensational and Exciting Drama,
THE EXECUTIONER’S DAUGHTER
Popular Prices—3s., 2s. and Is. (early doors 6d. extra).
Plan at Nicholson and Co’s.
I V O L I THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
Mr. Harry Rickards’ New Tivoli Vaudeville Company.
The Modern Venus, MDLLE. LOTTY.
GALLANDO, Lightning Clav Modeller.
J. W: WINTON and M‘GINTY.
Mdlle. Nadine, The Chic Parisienne Chansonette.
THE WILLIAMS QUARTETTE. DERENDA & BREEN,
and. the Whole of our Grand Double Tivoli Co..
Prices—2/6, 2/-, 1/6, 1/-, 6d. Early doors till 7.30, 6d extra.
Plan at Paling’s. JOHN C. LEETE, Bus. Manager.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
Acting-Manager .. Thos. P. Hudson.
EVERY EVENING,
THE GREAT CHINESE-JAPANESE ATTRACTION,
A Unique and Extraordinary
Spectacular Operatic Extravaganza—
ALADDIN.
Produced on a Scale of Magnificence Unsurpassed in any
Part of the World.
MATINEE, WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY, at 2 p.m.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allan’s.
QIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees & Managers, Messrs. J. C. Williamson, Lee & Rial.
ESTABLISHED and PERMANENT SUCCESS of
THE WORLD’S ENTERTAINERS.
LAST NIGHTS of the PRESENT COMPANY.
Matinees Wednesdays & Saturdays. Prices—3s., 2s. & Is.
JOE BROWN, Business Manager.
HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager Bland Holt.
FRIDAY, JAN. 31st, LAST NIGHT of
THE SPAN OF LIFE.
SATURDAY, FEB. Ist, Reproduction of the Celebrated
Drury Lane Sporting Spectacle, ,
THE DERBY WINNER.
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. 6d., 25., Is. 6d. and Is. Box
Plan at Allan’s.
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
ER MAJESTY'S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager : Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, George Tallis. Treas., E. J. Tait.
SIXTH WEEK of the SIXTH WEEK
SAN TOY BOOM
The Record Success of the English Stage, interpreted by
the full strength of the Famous
ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY at 2 p.m.
Prices as Usual. °@Ji Box Plan at Allan’s.
ICKARDS' NEW O PERA HOUSE,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mr. HARRY RICKARDS.
EVERY EVENING, at 8 p.m.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS at 2.30 p.m.
ADA DELROY, JAMES BELL.
THE JACKSON FAMILY,
COLLEY & WAY, WESTON & YOST, the LUNDGREENS,
OASELLI SISTERS, DIAMOND DUO, and the full
strength of Mr. Harry Rickards’ New Tivoli Vaudeville Co.
Price^^sMkL^s^Li^nc^d^^^ljlanatAllan’s.
The Roman
Hair
Restorer
Produces Brown and Black Hair.
Price 1/6; by post, 2/3.
An inexpensive arid
certain preparation for
renewing and restoring
'to its original color the
hair of the head, beard
and whiskers.
Lately used by the Roman ladies for preserving <Jheir
magnificent tresses. Nourishes the roots and removes
dandruff; increases the quantity, and renders it glossy
and supple; does not stain the skin nor soil the linen. If
your hair is falling off or turning grey, use this.
CAUTION.—This being different from most prepara-
tions, other kinds should De refused.
JAMES BRINSMEAO and 00., Chemists, ST. HILDA.
IST All Oasnsn Wi nr.
Northern Associateds: Announced that “pre-
parations for stoping are now nearly completed. In the
course of this week the management has been surprised
to meet with indications that the limits of the mine’s rich
ore shutes are not nearly so clearly defined as at first
supposed, but that new makes of ore are continually
appearing, and at present it would appear that the stopes
as planned are in the middle section of an ore channel
whose width has still to be ascertained. It is uncertain
when systematic stoping and regular outputs will be
authorised by the London Board ; but as preparatory
work is so advanced and shareholders are eager for divi-
dends, it is locally believed that the new policy will be
inaugurated directly the present surface accumulations
of oxidised ore have been treated at the Boulder No. 1
mill.” The inference is that though the management
itself was under the impression that it was taking all the
ore as it proceeded with “ development work,” it was
necessary, nevertheless, to “prepare for stoping,” and it
has been greatly surprised to find that there is"plenty of
ore to stope.
• * * •
Peak Hill (W.A.): After being kept in the
dark for two .vears, a meeting of shareholders has taken
place in London, presided over, as usual, by G. Darling-
ton Simpson, the promoter of the co. Gerard Smith, the
ex-Governor of W.A., who visited the mine some
two .years ago, and ate from a gold plate, and took
champagne from a gold goblet, and broke ore with a
gold pick, and also used, of course, a gold toothpick,
has become a director of the co.—not a very surprising
circumstance. Simpson’s speech was so long that it must
have cost a lot of money to print, for it seems that all
mining speeches are paid for as advts. in London ; more
than half the space of some alleged financial newspapers
has been devoted to such matter. Smith also made a
speech. He said he was accompanied there by H. H.
Schlapp, the great mining expert and metallurgist, for
the special purpose of examining the property. What
Schlapp thought of it was not known to the chairman,
who never asked Mr. Schlapp any indiscreet questions, as
he was examining in the interests of the Government. It
was left to Smith to divulge what Schlapp thought, and,
according to Smith, this is it: His opinion was a very
favorable one indeed, and there was no reason at
all why he should not state it, as he was now in
a position of greater freedom and far less respon-
sibility. Mr. Schlapp said it was one of the most
extraordinary instances he had ever known ; that the mine
was all right, but, in his opinion, there were no well-
defined lodes on the property. Indeed, he thought it all
contained gold. It was one of those peculiar instances -
where, excepting on rare occasions, there would not be
any very clearly-defined gold strata,.but the whole of the
property from the surface right down would be found to
contain gold in more or less quantities. Smith thought
this a remarkable expression of opinion. To writer’s
mind, it shows how easy it is to please a Governor about
a mine. The meeting, anyhow, has brought about a sub-
stantial advance in the price of shares, and if Smith’s
yarn could be believed, and Simpson’s figures could be
realised, the mine is worth millions. The output is likely
to be increased by the running of the cyanide plant on a
big heap of good tailings, and when they are exhausted
the mine, it mav safely be predicted, will have that tired
feeling. #
* * * •
Cabled that “ Mr. Horace St. George Youles,
the editor, and Mr. Brousson, the city editor, of London
Truth, have resigned their positions.” They were com-
promised by Whittaker Wright’s evidence in connection
with bribes paid to journalists on behalf of the London
and Globe Finance Corporation. The latter gentleman,
“ Moses Moss,” is not alone. If they all resigned who
had been corrupted there would be many vacancies on
the London financial press, which is rotten to the core,
with the exception of about three papers only.
* » * *
Ovens Valley Gold Dredging Co. : A doleful
circular issued to shareholders. The working discloses
no improvement in the ground ; the screen and other
parts of the dredge show such wear as will involve an
outlay of £5OO shortly. No funds in hand to meet
this expenditure, nor even to discharge existing lia-
bilities. amounting to £6OO. A lease of other
ground suggested with the substitution of sluice
boxes for screen and elevator—altogether requiring
£3ooo —and the directors want to know whether if
liquidation proves inevitable the shareholders would be
disposed to contribute to a new co. A disappointed and
disgusted shareholder refers to the elegant prospectus
that brought this co. into existence, and would like to be
advised what to do. His own private opinion is to “ Let
the tail go with the hide,” and put the shares to debit
of profit and loss. Writer thinks so, too.
» » » •
North Lyell: Some recent Bulletin criticisms
on the management of this mine have moved a not unin-
terested party to protest, firstly, that the Co. did not
“sacrifice its steamers at a very big loss.” It built a
steam ar, which, after bringing out a load of machinery
representing £2OOO in freight, was sold at a profit to the
Union Steamship Co. Also, in consideration of this sale,
the mine management was able to make a very desirable
contract with the U.S.S. Co. for carriage of ore and goods.
Secondly, in reply to the allegation that North Lyell is
“ absolutely at Mount Lyell’s mercy after having wasted
upwards of £500,000,” the protestor saith that the whole
expenditure from capital account, including cost of rail-
way, machinery, etc., doesn’t amount to £501,001, nor is
the mine destined to amalgamate with its revered parent.
South Lyell, which is practically under the same control
as the North, provides the necessary smelting base, and
—well, everything in the garden’s lovely according to
the gentleman who felt hurt at the Bulletin’s par.
• * * •
Wild cats are being gradually eliminated from
the Maoriland dredging arena, and the industry is assum-
ing a healthier aspect. Hundreds of people spent their
Christmas and New Year holidays inspecting cronk shows
which had practically ruined them, or fooling round
claims alleged to be turning out good gold. On
the West Coast wild talk about “salting” has
been indulged in, but so far no law proceedings
have followed. Two hundred and twenty dredges have
been built, or are in course of construction, for Otago
(M.L.) companies alone. Assessing their cost at £7OOO
each—a very > ’derate computation—the lot aggregate
over £1,500,b0 .
• • • •
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buchu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemistsi
The New Hebrides.
Writes a man from the New Hebrides:—
Somewhere in the archives of N.S.W. Department of
Lands there is a curious postal contract for the convey-
ance of mails to the Pacific islands. You can’t get infor-
mation about it, however, at the Post-office (which, of
course, is now a Federal department), but are referred to
the Lands Office, the latter, in some vague manner, being
supposed to look after island matters. “The Lands”
gives the impression that the mail contract is something
of a secret. But, putting together what you find in the
different departments, the result is : The Government of
N.S.W., in that casual manner in which the official mind
treats other people’s money, arranged to give Burns,
Philp and Co. £3600 a year for ten years. This is
nominally for carrying the mails for ten years, but it
really looks like a present to Burns, Philp and Co. to
enable them to monopolise the trade of the New
Hebrides. The company, as a condition of securing the
support of the Presbyterian Mission, is bound to call at
all the mission stations. The Government binds
it to nothing, except to take mails once a month. Burns,
Philp and Co. are not only carriers, they are private
traders, and keenly compete with other British traders
who receive no aid from New South Wales. Some of their
steamers carry Kanaka crews, so that the subsidy does
not even tend towards the employment of Australian
seamen. Its one result has been to create a monopoly,
and to force the small trader to part with his produce to
this firm at any price it likes to offer, because
other firms, unable to compete with the subsidised
concern are going out of the business. Now that the
subsidy is assured, this firm is, by arrangement with the
owners of small sailing vessels, omitting a number of its
former places of call. The contract made by the same firm
with the Presbyterian mission is very different. Under
It the steamer must call at all the Mission stations in the
Hebrides going and coming, and it has agreed to charge
the Mission a lower rate of freights and fares than it doe#
the traders. Nor were the missionaries foolish enough to
make alO vears’ contract, The only thing they agree to
do Is to travel and ship goods up to a certain sum each
year, and as they invariably exceed this sum, they have
all the advantages of the bargain. It is curious to notice
that no tenders were called for this postal contract, which
assists a private firm unfairly in its trade, and handicaps
settlers in the Hebrides by preventing competition.
The New Hebrides are constantly being brought up
before the public', and the question of whether they
are to belong to Australia or France discussed.
Some months ago a letter appeared in the Sydney
Morning Herald purporting to be signed by a resident-
of the New Hebrides, and to be a copy of one sent
to the Federal Premier. In it the writer, after relat-
ing the hardships under which the British settlers suf-
fered, implored Mr. Barton to “ hoist the old flag” in the
islands—of course in total disregard of the arrangement
with France. Now the alleged writer of this letter is not
a British subject ; he has, until lately, used the American
flag, and has since left Sydney in his own vessel under
the flag of Nicaragua. A great deal of the wild “ British ”
flag enthusiasm which finds its way into the Sydney
papers is of the same sort.
N.S.W. Political Labor League, repre-
senting 120,000 voters, beard with sympathy on
Monday a deputation from the N.S.W. Anti-War
League, headed by Professor Wood, of Sydney
University. Professor Wood put the anti-
s’African war case to the meeting clearly and
logically : the struggle had already cost the British
workmen £200,000,000, which sum would be wrung
from wages already insufficient for decent sub-
sistence. The interests of labor and the interests
of militarism were necessarily conflicting. In
thanking Mr. Wood, Mr. Riley, President of the
Political Labor League, said: “We, as an ind'us-
ANOTHER DERELICT.
HOPELESS BILL (solilojuising) :
“Now, why doesn't somebody take
me in tow?"
trial body, are prepared, in the event of disputes,
to place our case in the hands of an Industrial
Court. We, therefore, hold that international
disputes should be settled by a similar method.”
This definite utterance on behalf of the labor
voters of N.S.W. should do much to stiffen the
knees of some of the' timorous Federal Labor
members, who are afraid to more than whisper
their anti-Jingo convictions.
That frequent official notice to the Aus-
tralian elector, “You are requested to appear at
the Revision Court to show cause why your name
should not be struck off the roll on the ground
that you are dead,” will lead to trouble some day.
Sooner or later the dead elector will get angry and
turn up at the court with indignation written on
his skull, and his tombstone under his arm, and
then a horrified court will burst through the back
window and run for the scrub.
Little or nothing has been said in Vic-
torian papers about Bill Holloway’s retirement
from the stage. The younger generation doesn’t
even know that Charles Holloway had an elder
brother, Bill, who turned up his trade and took to
actin’, at Ballarat, some 36 years ago. W. J.
Holloway, on the strength of his tall, muscular
figure, and in spite of a most pronounced “twang,”
contrived to establish himself as a “heavy lead ”
of the “old legitimate’’"brder, running his own
show—around Victoria, as a rule—or figuring as
a specially-engaged hero under other manage-
ments. Present scribe first met Billolleraway in
Melbourne when he was playing a boisterous
Armand Duval to the Camille of Louise Pomeroy,
at the old Opera House ; but to see the nasal-
toned barnstormer in all his glory one
had to go to Ballarat when he was star-
ring in a round of characters. Holloway
differed from most mummers of his class in being
a level-headed, pushing business man like brother
Charles. He did his best, according to his lights,
to deserve good fortune; and- at last he struck it
rich. Early in ’BS he made a trip to Europe with
his wife and young step-daughter, Essie Jenyns,
and before the end of the year he came back to
Melbourne with a drama by H. A. Jones, which
Williamson produced at the Royal with Miss
Essie in the principal character. That was her
first appearance as a finished actress, though she
had been known for a promising damsel in sm'lil
parts before her step-father took her to London
to study the methods of Mary Anderson
and Ellen Terry. It happened that Jones’s
drama, “Saints and Sinners,” was not much
of a go, nevertheless it served Bill Hollo-
way’s purpose of introducing Miss Jenyns, and
reproducing himself in connection with a notable
show. A year or two later the “brilliant
young Australian artiste” had got her native
country by the wool, and her step-father and
manager was posing, in a fur-collared coat, as the
restorer of classic drama to the local stage—which
he certainly was. Holloway played Romeo to the
Juliet of his mascotte-relative, and so forth. The
leading man was of no consequence—nobody was
of any consequence save Essie Jenyns. The Aus-
tralian career of W. J.H. ended with the retire-
ment of Miss Jenyns, who exchanged her laurel
wreath for orange blossoms, and became Mrs.
Woods. Then her step-father took his wealth and
his family to London, and somehow achieved the
distinction of playing King Lear at the Lyceum,
as substitute for Irving. Of late years he has
been a touring-manager, frequently in S’Africa,
and it was there that the old battler recently dis-
banded his eo. before returning to England to
settle down.
A violent and hairy character is allowed to write
this in the Sydney D.T.:—
I am glad to find that we have true patriots like Mr. J.
L. Adams among us, to demand that traitors like Sir H.
Campbell-Bannerman, the leader of the British Liberal
party, should be impeached for their treason.
May I, venture to add the names of others who should
be so dealt with—the Earl Carrington, Sir W. Vernon-
Harcourt, Mr. John Morley, Mr. Augustus Birrell, Mr.
Bruce, Mr. L. Courtney, Mr. Frederic Harrison. The
following should at least be banished Field Marshal Sir
Neville-Chamberlain, Mr. Herbert Spencer, Dr. Caird
(master of Balliol College, Oxford), Mr. Goldwin Smith,
Canon Gore (whom the British Government made a
bishop of the other day for his disgraceful letter to the
Times about the Concentration Camps). There are other
“ British renegades in high places,” as Mr. Adams says,
and I hope he will insist on Mr. Chamberlain making’an
example Of them.
Likewise, the bones of John Ruskin and late
Chief-Justice Russell should be disinterred and
hung on a gibbet; and if William Wallace has
a monument anywhere it should be pulled down
and the site of the disgraceful thing sown with
refuse from the Chinese gardens. Oom Wallace
trying to reconquer lost Scotch territory in Scot-
land, and Oom Kruger trying to reconquer
lost Boer territory in Natal, were on a par,
and when The Bulletin hears of a lot of dis-
graceful Scotchmen at Dunedin hooraying over
the memory of the rebel who broke up the first
British Empire it is filled with righteous indigna-
tion, and wants to sing the National Anthem
right through eighteen times.
The storm which struck Victoria on the
night of Jan. 21 brought trouble on the head of
a energetic constable in a provincial district, the
name of which is not officially mentioned.
The energetic constable, being blown round
in the wind along with the dust and fruit
bags and stubble, fell over something in
the thick darkness, and identified the object
by feel as a swagman, and the symptoms,
by smell, as those of drink. He gathered
up the stranger, and, calling on a boy
going home with the family supper beer
to carry the swag in the King’s name, he
bore his prize to the lock-up, and had
much difficulty, in consequence of storm
and stress, in putting the man in the cell.
When he had deposited his captive in a
corner, the boy followed in with the
swag, and just then a howling blast shook
up the establishment, and banged the
cell door on all concerned. The police-
man shouted for help, but there was
nobody to hear him, and the officer
and his prey and the distracted small
boy spent 27 suffering hours in that cell,
the only solace being the boy’s three
penn’orth of supper beer, most of which
was embezzled by the drunk. At the
expiration of the period named some-
body turned up and opened the door.
The truly dramatic conclusion of this
story would have been the discovery,
in after years, of the bones of the three
victims on the stony floor of the cell,
but folks are really quite alert in some
of these country districts.
It is announced that out of 11,000
men who volunteered at Manchester
(England) for sir ice in S’Africa, 8000
were rejected as wh illy unfit for service,
and of the 3000 accepted, 1800 did not
come up to even the very moderate army
standard. Under the Freetrade policy
the agricultural districts of Great
Britain are being depopulated (almost
every Irish county, and about half the
Scotch and one-fourth of the English counties
show a declining population), and all the increase
is in the large towns. Regarding which, Earl
Grey propounds this theory :
(1) That the population reared in the sunless slums of
our smoke-enveloped cities, unless reinforced by marriage
with men and women born and reared in God’s fresh air,
deteriorate quickly to such an extent that the third
generation is either Sterile, or at best capable of giving
birth to an infirm and ricketty posterity.
(2) That the human reservoirs in the country, on which
the towns depend for the maintenance of their stamina
and vigor, are daily growing lower, and before long,
unless present tendencies are changed, will become
absolutely dry.
If you wish to discover the address of any
person, or want private information of any
description, consult J. W. Holdsworth, 101
Swanston-street, Melbourne. Asa Private In-
quiry Agent J.W.H. has a world-wide reputation,
and is unrivalled. *
After many months of “ skite/’ Morrissey,
Victoria’s Minister for Agriculture, lias brought
out what he calls The Journal op the Depart-
ment of Agriculture op Victoria. The articles
in the Journal are just as long-winded and stupid
as the title. Here is a sample from one on
“ Animal Parasites ” :
The chain of animal existence possesses many curious
and interesting links. One of these is constituted by
creatures which are incapable of perpetuating their
existence without the active intervention and direct sup-
port of other beings in the links that build up the great
chain. Each creature plays its own special part, and it
has been ordained in an inscrutable way that these forms
low down in the scale of existence shall become con-
spicuous actors in the great drama of life. Human intel-
lect is stunned at the marvellous ways instinct guides
these creatures through their wanderings in their various
stages of development to achieve their salvation.
There are pages of this heavy maundering and
meandering. And the Journal, which will cost
Victoria £SOOO a-year, is supposed to supply the
cocky-farmer with useful information that will
help him to grow more turnips.
Now that the bush-fire season is in full swing,
it will not be out of place to remark that the man who
carelessly lights his pipe irr the bush, or leaves his camp-
fire burning, or slings his beer-bottle where it will serve
as a burning-glass, is a chump, and a criminal chump at
that. Bush fires give a good light, but they are expen-
sive and unnecessary. The light of the sun is more eco-
nomical, and is quite good enough for anybody in the day-
time ; and at night, if a good, pure, economical light is
wanted, they cannot do better than invest in a “ Radiant ”
Incandescent Kerosene Lamp, which costs 13/6 (carriage
paid 14/6), at McLean Bros, and Rigg, Ltd., 107 Elizabeth-
street, Melbourne.*


NERYOUS PROSTRATION
SHIVERING AND SHAKING
WITH FRIGHT.
The Case of
Mrs. E. BAYNHAM.
(by a special reporter.)
Love and reverence is the basis of absolute
sympathy and confidence between two
people, and when they know each other
thoroughly and well they are not. strangers
to one another in what is most vital to the
happiness of both. Sympathetic considera-
tion from a friend at one time played a
prominent part in the welfare of Mrs. hllen
Baynham, of No. 117 Gilbert-street,
Adelaide, who described its influence in
this way.”
“ I hardly knew which way to turn, 1
was in such great distress.”
“ What ailed you ? ” asked the reporter
“To begin with,” said Mrs. Baynham,
“I had something wrong with my mouth
and throat. The glands in the neck were
greatly swollen, and it was only with the
utmost difficulty that I could swallow even
a drop of milk. My tongue swelled to an
enormous size, besides being covered with a
dirty white coating. The pains in my
mouth were just as great as if I had been
suffering from neuralgia, but one doctor
told me that my complaint was entirely
different to that. He said my nerves were
in the worst state they could be in, and
that if I was not very careful I would be an
invalid for life. A terrible pain ran up both
sides of my face, right to the top of my
head. The sensation was just*as if
hundreds of ants were eating away at my
brain, and I can tell yott that I was nearly
sent raving mad by it. My hair had to be
let down, as the weight of it when on top
seemed to press my scalp oh my brain. The
happiness of living seemed lost to me for
ever, for I was depressed With the most
gloomy thoughts that could possibly enter
tone’s mind. So frightfully nervous did I
become that I Was afraid to move in case 1
toight fall into the hands of some evil spirit,
atid I had a peculiar suspicion that some-
body was always following my footsteps for
the purpose of doing me some mischief. The
rustling of a leaf, or the hearing of a
familiar sound was quite enough to put me
'into a dreadful fit of trembling, and then I
sat listening and quivering till I got. into
such an awful state that I used to think I
was going to have a fit. My heart throbbed
as if it had been let loose, and the pains
around that organ, caused by moving
volumes of wind, sometimes started me
crying. Instead of sleeping I used to lie
| awake shivering and shaking with fright,
jand although I had a light burning I always
[fancied there was somebody in the room
[that I could not see. My appetite was so
jpoor that I could go all day and never feel
(hungry ; but I was really afraid to eat, as I
rhad such acute pains in the stomach after-
wards, besides having an overburdened
sensation in the chest which caused me to
anticipate deatli from suffocation.”
“ Did your throat troubles aflect your
breathing ?”
“Very much. It was so awkward and
painful to breathe sometimes that I thought
the respiratory passages were closing up,
and the soreness of my throat went very
much against me when I vomited my fo d
up, a thing which often happened. In like
manner I found retching a very distressing
affliction, especially as the pains in my rijit
side became more intense when I strained mj’’-
self in this way. I had a pain between my
shoulder blades that often made me unable
'to sit up in my chair, and when trying to
(walk I used to be brought to a sudden halt
Iby the terrific agony across my loins. But
[the toitures were not confined to the places
I I have mentioned. They were spread all
over my body, and were not mere aches,
but excruciating pains of the most unbear-
able kind, as if neuralgia, or gout had taken
possession of the whole of my frame. The
taste iu my mouth was extremely bitter,
and I was badly in need of a medicine to re-
store regularity to my bowtls.”
“ Your doctor could supply such require-
ments, surely ? ”
“ No, he could not. His medicine did
no v good whatever, so I consulted
another doctor After examining me ho
would not tell me wdiat I was suffering
from, and iliat made me more terrified than
ever. His treaunent was also unavailing,
and so were the medicines of three other
doctors. I was now so weak and emaciated
that a waft of wind would have blown me
down, and I felt sure that I would soon die.
Besides having five doctors I was for nearly
two years attending a hospital, but none of
them eould cure me, but amongst other
medicines I bought I had a bottle of Clementa
Touic.”
“Did you feel any better for it?”
“ No. I thought I felt a trifle worse, and
did not intend taking any more, but the
lady who advised me to purchase Clements
Tonic persuaded me to try another bottle,
and when I had done so the relief I longed
for commenced to set in. I could hardly
believe it myself, bub it is a positive fact
that when I had taken two bottles of
Clements Tonic the swelling in my tongue
and mouth had gone right away, and my
gums were quite free from pain. The sore-
ness was taken from my throat by a further
use of Clements Tonic, and my res pi atory
organs were restored to a state of health.
People who had been expecting to hear of
my death could hardly believe their own
ears when they heard that I had taken a
turn for the better, and for this I had
nothing to be grateful to but Clements
Tonic, which gradually drove the madden-
ing pains from my head, and left me quite
calm and peaceful. The wretched nights of
restlessness were quickly ended 1 y the
sleep-giving properties of Clements T< nic,
and I always awoke feeling streng'hened
and refreshed by the rest 1 had obtained.
The tortures were dispersed from my body
with remarkable rapidity, and I was over-
joyed to realise that ( lenient* Touic had re-
stored all my former energy and activity to
all my limbs. I ate so heartily that I
hardly knew when to stop, and in a few
weeks it did not matter how heavy my
meals were I could always digest them, and
[ was never again troubled with retching
or vomiting.”
“ Were you benefited in any other
way ? ”
“ I should rather think so, for my nervea
were toned and stimulated by Clements
Tonic to such a degree of excellence that I
could walk anywhere .in the dark and never
have the least fear. The change in my ap-
pearance was really extraordinary. Besides
having a fresh and youthful look in my face,
my figure filled out till I became quite stout,
and I felt as vigorous and hearty as though
I had been well all the days of my life. I
took my doses of Clements Tonic regularly,
till the great mental and physical tortures I
had endured were completely stamped out
of exis ence, and considering that I had
sunk so low that I was weary of my life,
and that my recovery was not anticipated
even by my doctors, I think the more praise
is due to Clements Tonic.”
“ If you do not mind I will put your case
in print?”
“I have no objection to your publishing
these facts in any way, as I am sure those
who read my experience will be greatly
helped.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I EUjRN Baynham of No. 117 Gilbert-street.
Adelaide, in the State of South Australia, do solemnly
and sincerely declare that I have carefully read the
annexed document, consisting of four folios, and con-
secutively numbered from one to four, and that it
contains and is a true and faithful account of m\ ill-
ness andevire by Clements ic_; and also contains
my full permission to pub. n in any manner my
statements—which I give voluntarily, and without
receiving any paymentand I make this solemn
declaration conscientiously believing the same to be
true, and by virtue of the provisions of an act. made
and passed in the sixth year of the reign of his late
Majesty King William the Fourth, intituled an act
to repeal an act of this present Session of Parliament,
intituled ‘ an act for the more effectual abolition of
oaths and affirmations taken and m de in various
departments of the State, and to substitute deciara
t.ions in lieu thereof, and for the more entire super, s
sion of voluntary and extra judicial oaths anu
affidavits, and to make other provisions for the ao Ji-
tion of unnecessary oaths.’ ”
Declared and subscribed at Adelaide, in the
State of South Australia, this .first day of July, one
thousand nine hundred and one, before me,
M. H. MADGE, J.P.
Fr
e
cuce
gd
The “LANCET” says
“We counsel the public to drink Lime-Fruit Juice
whenever and wherever they list. It is a far more
wholesome drink than any form of Alcohol.”
Montserrat” Lime-Fruit Juice either with water
nerated water is a delightful thirst quencher.
Sole Consignees—
EVANS, LESCHER & WEBB, LONDON.
EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
AGENTS —Elliott Bros., Ltd.; ,T... Connell & Co., Sydney.
I>. Cohen .V Co., Newcastle.
Business Announcements.
you
SHOULD ALWAYS WEAR . . .
AERTEX
CELLULAR
with the cell side next the skin in the case of
UNDERWEAR.
There is not a more health-keeping form of covering 1
for the body, and certainly none more oomfortable
—even luxurious.
Besides UNDERWEAR, we Stock . .
Pyjamas, Hosiery, etc.
And all Kinds, Shapes, Descriptions, and Colors of
Shirts
—from the White, linen-fitted Dress and Ordinary to
Fancy-pleated Neglig6, and Out-door Shirts for Tennis
and all uses.
Sole Agents in N.S. W. :
David Braham & Co.,
73 and 7b KIM STREET , SYDNEY.
HOLD (ODD m
WELL
IN HAND
fgdf
CATARRH Causes DEAFNESS
Buy Ramev’s indicator and
brevent this. “A Sovereign
Remedy" for half-a-sovereign
host free (remit by postal note or
tom securely wrapped and
registered). Treatment includes
Medicator, Inhalent to last tour
months and Nasal Ointment,
zo page booklet, “ What is
Catarrh? ’’ and treatment of hay
fever, etc., post free on request.
Home catarrh cure Co., 229-231 Collins St.
MELBOURNE.
Drunkenness Cured
The Remedy can be given In Tea, Coffee, or Food,
thus Secretly Curing the Patient without
his Knowledge.
rpHIS CURE FOR DRUNKENNESS has shed a radiance
X into thousands of hitherto desolate firesides. It does
its work so silently and surely that, while the devoted
wife, sister, or daughter looks on, the drunkard is
reclaimed, even against his will. Mrs. J. HATTON, who
cured her husband with EUCRASY, now writes us that
she has also cured a near and dear relative, and; makes a
most earnest appeal to all other women to save the
drunkard. We will post free books and testimonials from
hundreds who have been cured, and Everything needed
to aid you in saving those dear to you from a life of ulti
mate poverty and disgrace. Address —
THE EUCRASY CO.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
N.Z. Agency-ROBERT REW, Victor ia-st., Auckland.
RX CO RO’s
rsS£t* c£ o? Ujf £
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Li fe restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 128. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight,
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope.
Agents for Australasia — PERRY & CO., 4-7 Queen St.,
Melbourne ; Wholesale Agents for New South Wales —
Australian Drug Co., Ltd., O’Connell St., Sydney. All
Chemists, or Box 165, C.P.O.
€V€RY MAH
Should send for a VALUABLE PAMPHLET explaining
how all NERVOUS and ORGANIC derangements may be
SUCCESSFULLY TREATED by a NEW METHOD. It is
EASY and PLEASANT, and will effect a PERFECT and
PERMANENT CURE. Sent post FREE. Address—
THE BOTANIC INSTITUTE, VICTORIA CHAMBERS,
ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
DR. J. DOLUS BROWNE'S
rHLOROPYN
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyna
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, Ijw "' s
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, 1 should say Chlorouyne. I never traol
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forma
its best recommendation.”
DEAR SIR,—I have been cured of Weakness and De
bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
he pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr. ROBERT
E. PARKHURST, Pitt-street, Sydney.
v
PILLS.
FOR GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Puout & Go., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
Iwl
IEAS
vleael
by using Wilson’s Com-
mon Sense Ear Drums.
Wonderful Results obtained in
cases considered beyond any
treatment. Soft, comfortable,
and invisible when in use.
Head Noises Relieved.
Pamphlets and Australian
Testimonials Free.
J. CHALMERS, Sole Agent,
229 Collins St., Melbourne.
]
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Show long standing. Arethesame
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free. 9
Address-A. M. NXST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
g
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole Agents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English
American and made to order
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, <ssc.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers
281 CEORCE St.,SYDNEY, and at MdlbournS.
fdg
fdg
df
g
dfg
fd
The “Quaker" Turkish
& Vapor Bath Cabinet
All who suffer from Rheumatism,
Liver, Kidney or Bladder troubles,
Neuralgia, Eczema, Night Sweats,
&c., should have one of these
Cabinets. Price 30/-
Head and Face Steamer, 47-
Can he forwarded to any address.
J. CHALMERS, Agent,
229 Collins St., Melbourne
THE NEW FRENCH REMEDY
THERAPION
This suc-
cessful
and highly
popular remedy, as employed in the Continental Hospi-
tals by Ricord, Rostan, Jobert, Velpeau, and others,
combines all the desiderata to be sought in a medicine of
the kind, and surpasses everything hitherto employed.
THERAPION No. 1 maintains its world-renowned
and well-merited reputation for derangements of the
kidneys, pains in the back, and kindred ailments, afford-
ing prompt relief where other well-tried remedies have
been powerless.
THERAPION No. 2, for impurity of he blood,
scurvy, pimples, spots, blotches, pains' and swellings of
the joints, gout, rheumatism, and all diseases fo which
it has been too much a fashion to employ mercury, sarsa-
parilla, &c., to the destruction of sufferers’ teeth and ruin
of health. This preparation purifies the whole system
through the blood, and thoroughly’ eliminates every
poisonous matter from the body.
THERAPION No. 3, for exhaustion, sleeplessness,
and all the distressing consequences of dissipation, worry,
overwork, etc. It possesses surprising power in restoring
strength and vigor to those suffering from the enervating
influences of long residences in hot, unhealthy climates.
THERAPION
may be procured of the
principal Chemists and
Merchants throughout the world. Price in England, 2s. 9d.
and 4s. 6d. In ordering state which of the three numbers
is required, and observe that the word “Therapion”
appears on the British Government Stamp (in white
letters on a red ground) affixed to every genuine package
by order of His Majesty’s Hon. Commissioners, and with-
out which it is a forgery.
gdf
*9
m
Render, why not he able to use the
most mysterious and powerful force of
nature? By my method you can learn
to Hypnotize in a few hour* time, with-
out leaving your home. You «an per-
form all the many mar\eH<sus feats
that are possible to tl.e Hypnotist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain; win reluctant affection,
gratify * our ambition*, and produce
an use'll lent by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in hook f riu a mammoth
illustrated LESSCN or Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explain*
the mysteries and secrets
of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and i« he
and expensive thing of the .rind
ever publ shed. For a short
time I wi 1 send this magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed on
receipt of 6d. ( tamps to c<*ver
postage. Order to-day and 1 am
to Hypnotize. It is a c ance of
a life-time. Address—
most elaborate
g
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,^
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Dr. LANGSTON’S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
tested and i nfallible remedy.
Within the reach of ail, can begive ’ SECRETLY.
NO FAILURES. CU3ES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Home Treatment without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections. Call or write tor treatise, posted,
two stamps. Prepared only at tire liabo a oiy of
SURGEON LANGSTON
M.R.C-S. Eng.,
eg RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.


NEWMAN’S
ANTISEPTIC
NEWMAN’S
in King: St.
THROAT PASTILLES.
c. brandauer & co/si
Circular-Poiated Pens. J
Seven Prize Medals Awarded,
Neither scratch nor spurt, the
points being rounded by a new
process.
Attention is also
drawn to their
new
“GRADUATED
SERIES Of PENS.”
Each pattern being made in four degrees
of flexibility and Points.
m
POINTED
Usk your Storekeeper for an Assorted Sample Box of either series. Works: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND.
MELLIN’S
FOR INFANTS
FOOD
AND INVALIDS.
Is adapted for use from birth.
Send for Pamphlet and Samples to GOBLIN & CO., 562-4, Bourke Street, Melbourne,
172, Clarence Street, Sydney, Grenfell Street, Adelaide, and Wellington.
Mellln’s Food Company for Australia and New Zealand, Ltd., 56, Cannon Street, London, Eng.
Beanie’s Bronchitis Cure.
THE FAMOUS REMJEJDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain o
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption ha
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient
»nd a Complete Cure is certain. ° J ,
BEWARE OP COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY" ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE
“Orange, N.S.W,
"Mr. Hearne.—
“ Dear Sir,—l enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received front my mother. Mrs. ,
if London, England, from which you will glean that
pour medicine has been a perfect Godsend to a martyr to
folds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
ie mentioned, but you are at liberty to make.use of any
jortion of this letter you choose, and yon can confidently
•efer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
n rid. You can see for yourself what an immense success
t. was. You is faithfully,
Extract from letter alluded to above:—
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
irrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
nuch- interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
iff the empty bottle to find out if he could get. a full one
iom a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
,u|.ptied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONT H S’ TORTURE
JELLeVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRON<JHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“ Dergholm, Victoria.
“Dear Sir,—l wish to add my testimony to the woe
lerful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
nonths, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
! was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. ’ I had medical
idvice, and tried other * remedies,’ without avail. I tried
'ours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
irst dose, and though I have had but l.wo bottles I feel l
un a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
nay depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
vonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“ Yours faithfully,
“JAMES ASTBUKY.”
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
learne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
ectly and rapid!v successful under circumstances which
indoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
toe Rev. JOBfN SINCLAIR, Myers street, Geelong, and
Ifty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
“I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
•
“ Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but lam sending for another bottle in case I should want it.—D. M'DONALD Trinkey via
Quirindi, N.S.W."
•
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
•
“ My wife is 82 years old, and 1 am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good.it having quickly cured us both.—R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
Victoria.”
•
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
plete^’left me.—(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenruaggie, Victoria.”
“ 1 have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.-JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.”
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.-J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
•
“My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers
Queen-street, Melbourne.”
•
“ i lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The c U re was
absolutely miraculous.—F. A. PACKER. Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.-C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria.”
“ Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure w ithout delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
•
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” •
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
“J J* a )' e tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody —S
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” • s y y. s.
“ 1 suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine
but I can truly say that lam astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of mv brief trial. JOHN n’
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
“ Last I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom 1 paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good ; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well —H HOOD
Brooklands. Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.” ’ ’
•
“Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
•
“ Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure! got from you have Dulled
me through a long and dangerous illness.—HENßY WUKLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria ”
•
“The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.-CH AS. WHYBROW, Enochs
Point, via Darhngford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR. OWN
CIRCLE.
** The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 109 Queen-street, Melbourne.
“Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequent!
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victor!
who during the last few years has been repeatedly work
ing for and singing the praises of IJearne’s Bronchiti
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac
counts lit, Uollins-street, and the effect that it had was s-
marked t,hat he has ever since been continually recom
mending it to others.
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value o
Hearne’s most, valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has easo<
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people evei
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.’
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS
“69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G ; Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send us 3f
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose oui
cheque to cover amount of order.
“We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a chile
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quiti
cured by three doses.
"We are, faithfully yours,
‘ THOMASON, CIIATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemist*.’ -
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPEh
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Es<j. Dear Sir,—Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken
with immediate curative effect.
“I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“Editor Geelong Advertise*.*
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure. ”-ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney. N.S.W.
b -aNCH OePOT
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
_ 11 c- o' S e; NO, 5 ’ First Fioor : Greer s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 35U
__ 111 a ize, .3s od, Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Fast to any Address when not obtainable Locally
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected
It is invaluable.”
.London Medical Record.
Food f <®
Infants
m
9
if
m
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is "
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BERGER’S FOOD is sold in Tint by Chemists, Sc., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own."
British Medical Journal.
Invalids
and
the aged.
The Bulletin receives from Maoriland
this truly beautiful proposition :—
Dear Bulletin.— To bring the Boer war to an end—and
even you must admit that there is now no way to close
this sordid infamy hut by force of arms : 3000 men. from
M.L., 5000 from Australia, 4000 from Natal and Cape. All
our men to be bush bushmen as distinguished from town
bushmen. Men to elect their own officers, and to have
power to depose any found inefficient. All British sol-
diers, and more especially all British officers, to leave the
country. Stores, arms, &c., to be supplied to troops and
charged to their account. Seddon to be appointed auto-
cratic Governor of S’Africa until end of war. Payment to
be made on conclusion of contract to troops to consist of
absolute possession of Band mines for ten years.—
Waihoa.
De Wet and Botha would certainly approve of
that idea. Twelve thousand men, most of whom
had never seen a shot fired in anger, constantly
stopping to hold meetings and discuss whether
their officers were inefficient or not, and to take a
ballot about their deposition, and sacking their
commanders whenever they gave an order which,
in the vastness of the 12,000 combined ignorances,
seemed a proof of incompetence, would be a
spectacle for the gods ! And De Wet would
probably be mean enough to charge that wild and
hairy mob just while it was busy holding a meet-
ing to elect some new officers, and the next that
was heard of it it would be employed under strict
guard washing up and chopping wood for its cap-
tors, and its general would be an enslaved rouse-
about in Botha’s backyard.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175;
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian'
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct tt> him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 .years, which is a sufficient guarantee '
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
At Hastings River (N.S.W. ), resident'
don t go about .much, but spend their time oulti
vating pigs and long beards. A young fellov.
just returned from Queensland was explaining to
an old resident how much good artesian bores
were doing. A few days later same old resident
heard the Boers described as lazy, dirty, etc., and
remarked that they might be all that in some
places, but he had heard they were doing good
work ‘out West.’
A correspondent' writes in defence of a
defunct Imperialist :
Kitchener’s war of extermination against the Dutch of
South Africa has revived interest in Alva’s war of ex-
termination .against the Dutch of the Netherlands.
Admirers of Kitchener, however, don’t like the com-
parison, and write severely about Alva’s methods. Let
us do justice to a great and patient soldier who fought
hard for his empire, and who no longer has power to
censor his critics’ cablegrams. - It has not been sufficiently
noticed that those who have blamed Alva’s methods
have, without exception, been pro-Dutch. Motley’s
history is disfigured by. strong and undisguised
sympathies with the Dutch in their fightfor independence.
On the other hand, we have indisputable evidence, nothing
less than Alva’s own statement, that he chastised the
rebels “ with all the moderation in the world.” It
is true that he -was compelled by the ignorance and
ohstinac3' °t the Dutch to take measures which inci-
dentally caused widespread suffering ; but the purpose of
these measures was to shorten the war, and they were
therefore, in reality, most humane. So excessive, in
fact, was his magnanimity towards the Dutch, who
always mistook, his kindness for weakness, that a pro-
minent member of the Council of Blood, expressing the
views of the Christian clergj-, explained that the Duke’s
failure was due to his “ excessive compassion.” If any
further testimony were wanted, we have the royal word
of Alva’s master, Philip II. of Spain, who, on hearing of
the atrocious-calumnies of the pro-Dutch press, indig-
nan tly declared that, “ as to the chastisement inflicted by
him upon the Netherland rebels, it would be found that
he had not used rigor, as had been charged against him,
but, on the contrary, great clemency and gentleness.”
Our clergy are doubtless right in warning Kitchener
against his besetting weakness —that excessive compas-
sion, which left Alva discredited and rheumatic in his
old age.


hfe&ve aw&v ah Extra Pair of Trousers to every ftirchascr of^£
df
gfd
g
Ml if!
In Blue and Coloured Serges.
The splendid value of these Suits has
made us famous. “Justly Famous!”
you will say when you try one.
dfg
THE
F.S.Meyers, Manager.
Post Office. Bourße St. Pic lb.
%aMtelP
MSR&
I®
J^mEffe^veC
[Blot Imflamrj EyejMbs|
Weak Eyes Dimkek ETS
oxmi
551 GEORGE ST
\ SYDNEY./
The Greatest Discovery of Modern Times
. . FOR . .
ALL EYE COMPLAINTS
■-i from any cause whatever.
ASK FOR ROSE’S
Celebrated Eye Lotion
A CERTAIN CURE for Sandy Blight, Granulations, Bunged Eyes,
Dimness of Sight, Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids, Weak Eyes caused by
Dust, Sun-Glare, Overwork, &c., Swelling Blight resulting from stings
of flies and insects.
Used with equal success on the Eyes of Cattle, Sheep, Poultry, &c.
Largely used by Rifle-Shooters and Literary Men.
Testimonials from leading Commercial and Professional Men throughout Australia.
Sole Proprietor . . .
H. A. ROSE
Dispensing
Chemist,
531 George St., Sydney
KEGP. LABBIi.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers. AST Beware of Imitations.
STRENGTH for the WEAK
and NERVOUS.
"THE MEDICAL MONTHLY,” August, 1893, says : “ The firm of Arthur Hale
and Son, of ICS Regent Street, London, W., has distinguished itself in the develop-
ment of electrical science as a medical agent. By an entirely new method of applica-
tion they have succeeded in producing an Electric Body Belt, which for comfort,
efficacy, and-genuineness, is unquestionably far superior to any previous invention.”
WE INVITE ALL intending purchasers of our IMPROVED and
PATENTED ELECTRO-GALVANIC BELTS and APPLIANCES
to a FAIR TRIAL and TEST before payment. Call upon us if possible.
If it is not convenient for you to call at our offices, request a friend or an
acquaintance in this city, or one coming from your own town, to do so for
you. We will first show you that our IMPROVED and PATENTED
ELECTRO-GALVANIC BELTS and APPLIANCES are genuine pro-
ducers of a continuous GALVANIC CURRENT by a MOST CRITICAL
TEST with the GALVANOMETER. And if you or your representative
cannot feel the ELECTRIC CURRENT from the GALVANIC
CHAINS in our ELECTRIC BELTS and APPLIANCES, we are will-
ing to place £lO 10s. to the credit of each of any two Charities you may
mention, either in this city or your own town or city.
We most cordially and respectfully invite any PHYSICIAN or
ELECTRICIAN to inspect our IMPROVED and PATENTED
ELECTRO-GALVANIC BELTS and APPLIANCES, which we are
now offering for sale to the AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC.
■m
Hale & Son’s Improved and Patented Electro-Galvanic Belts and Appliances are
Nature’s Chief Restorers. Our Plain Belt, our Special Belt and Suspensor for Gentlemen,
and our Abdominal Belt for ladies are guaranteed- to be the most Scientific and Genuine
Electric Appliances vet produced. They will speedily relieve and Cure Nervous Exhaus-
tion, Rheumatism, Pain and Weakness in the Back, impart tone and vigor to the whole nervous
system, and make life a pleasure. We invite all sufferers, no matter what the disease or JpW"®}
to call or send for our Free Book, entitled, “ Modern Treatment of Disease by Electricity.
Consultation Free. .
HALE & SON, Medical Galvanists,
105 Regent St,, London, W.; and 44 OASTLEREAGH ST,, SYDNEY.
Please mention this paper.
HEALTH. STBENCTH. HAPPINESS
HEALTH
beinsr forced to admit he is unwell, and
HEALTH is a PRECIOUS BOON.
Few recognise the BLISS of being in PERFECT
HEALTH, until SUDDENLY certain symptoms are
noticed, slight at first, but gradually RECURRING,
causing annoyance and SUFFERING, the individual
finally compelled to acknowledge that PERFECT
STRENGTH
are PRICELESS to him. He must by every
What a blow to a man who discovers he is LOSING
his STRENGTH and VIGOR, and THAT perhaps at
a period when he most NEEDS ALL his physical
and menial capabilities to battle through life. They
means endeavor to REGAIN THEM.
HAPPINESS
Does happiness consist in Wealth? No. Who can
be happy without HEALTH and STRENGTH?
Wealth materially assists the endurance of suffering,
hut PERFECT HEALTH, STRENGTH and VIGOR
should be the natural inheritance of EACH individual, and are invaluable gifts, tending to a
happy existence and long life. THE HEALTHY, STRONG MAN CAN contend, and SUCCESS-
FULLY, with the billows of life. BUT HOW CAN THE WEAKLY AND SICKLY?
Health, Strength and Happiness
can .be ALL REGAINED.
If constant study, combined
with intelligence and a
thorough uractical knowledge of the many ailments to which the human subject is a victim, THEN I SHOULD
be able to achieve that result AFTER THIRTY YEARS’ PRACTICE, enabling me to bring to bear unlimited
ahd VARIED EXPERIENCE in all ACUTE and CHRONIC CASES of NERVOUS EXHAUSTION, CHEST,
SKIN and SPECIAL DISEASES OF MEN AND WOMEN. PERFECT SYSTEM OF AGCURATE DIAGNOSIS
AND TREATMENT BY MAIL FOR COUNTRY PATIENTS A SPECIAL FEATURE.
Dr. WATSON’S Fee is Strictly Moderate. He recognises the fact that the Public is
prepared to pay a Reasonable Fee for Assured Skill in the treatment of Complaints of
whatever character.
Consultations from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. Daily.
ABSOLUTELY FREE.
A “GUIDE TO DIAGNOSIS X,” Posted Free, lI-
DR. H. S. WATSON,
(Please Mention
This Paper.)
137 ELIZABETH ST., HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
This Stands to Reason—
RUPTURE-HERNIA
Should be Cured at once, and Cured
to stay Cured. —-—^
The cure of Rupture and all diseases of men has for years engaged the attention of
the members of the Staff of Specialists of the EloCtrO“M©diC«ll &nd UrglCcl
Institute. They understand more fully than most experts the isastrous
possibilities arising from these affections.
IDE Fife
HEALTH
cf
WA
M
m
rHI
lino
STRENGTH
medical
l^£p
CTR°
.
EUt
«111 CE
VIGOR
&SHR6ICMTNSfititTf
SURGICAL INSTITUTE
AND
■
m
THE INSTITUTE.
The wisdom of having all pelvic disorders cured in their earlier stages is patent to all, whether "
not, who are in the least familiar with the intimate relations existing between such disorders and the constitution n
general. The Specialists’ advice is : Take a short cut to Health ; seek it In perfection ; have no toe lost in
making experiments ; go and talk your matter over with these able Specialists ; look over the
consider its wonderful equipments and conveniences for treatment of all kinds of disease ; peruse the tesi
received by the Specialists from thousands of persons cured of Rupture and other afflictions, and then consult your
thoughts, judge and act wisely and determinedly.
If you have a Rupture and do the latter, you will
find that you have a splendid chance of being cured
without any unnecessary experiments being made upon
the locality of your trouble. Ruptures are very
dangerous affections, especially that kind
which develops into a Strangulated Hernia and
which, if not attended to at once, may mean a
dangerous and painful operation attended sometimes
with fatal consequences. A Rupture is such a
serious matter that it is a criminal act of folly for any
person who does not understand it to endeavor to
cure or even attempt its relief. Only men with
special knowledge can ever hope to permanently
cure them.
A “Rachet” Truss.
“ Mock-Main ” Lever Truss.
There are several kinds of Rupture. To the unenlightened there is the
Oblique, Encysted, Direct and Inguinal or more properly
termed Single and Double Ruptures. Testimonials prove
that more men have been cured of this class of affec-
tion by the Specialists of the Institute than by any
association of men or medical practitioners in
the Commonwealth. Their treatment is more rational, modern
and effective, than that in vogue by the usual practising physician. It is
not sufficient to relieve, it is necessary to cure permanently all diseases
that are curable. It is to this end the Specialists concentrate their
endeavors.
There is no royal road to learning, but the way to permanent Health is visible to everyone.
Rupture may be considered curable, unsuccessful treatment determines differently. It depends upon your medical
attendant whether you are cured or not. Therefore it is as plain as a pikestaff that if an association of
medical Specialists have qualified by special study and application of time to the treatment of special classes of
disease, it stands to reason they are the people to be consulted in times of danger and of peril. Other persons
have been cured, why should you not be ? The sworn testimonies from sufferers should convince you.
Read this : A relieved sufferer writes“ I suffered from an Encysted Hernia for some time, but was not
permanently cured until operated upon by you. lam now strong and healthy, and do not even require the use of
the truss provided by you in case I required it.”
Melbourne, 1901.
Again: Mr. , writing from VV.A., states The Rupture from which I suffered was of such a decided
character that it defied all efforts for a permanent cure. My sufferings were very great, and when I came to you I
was not sanguine of a remedy. Your special modes of treatment performed wonders for hie, and at present I am in
possession of better health than I ever expected to enjoy.”
(Original copies to be seen at Institute.)
We have cured thousands of cases of men’s disorders, and amongst them Ruptures in every
t and variety. If you are ruptured we would be glad to see you. We will examine you and give you our opinion
free of charge. We will tell you whether yours is a case that may be cured or not. Remember, our expert
methods are known in every State of the Commonwealth. There are Nine Diplomas and Certifi-
cates of Registration and Qualification by the Medical Boards of New South Wales,
Victoria, South Australia: England and America open, by the Physician-in-Chief of the
Institute, Dr. Wallace, for Inspection at Our Institute.
TO- B —We keep in stock the latest surgical appliances in Improved Modern Trusses to be used in
oases of Rupture. None of these appliances give any annoyance, or cause chafing in any shape or
fnrm Thev are not cumbersome but give with the body to any position, they wear smoothly, evenly,
nnmf'ortablv and usefully. Just the thing a ruptured person requires. In addition to haying on hand
a°completestore of trusses, these instruments are made to order by the Institute to suit individual cases.
Specialities of tbe lijStiMite
Rheumatism ; Lumbago; Functional
and Organic Heart Diseases ; Brain,
T une Liver and Stomach Affections; Nervous Troubles ; Debilitated and Enfeebled Constitutions ;
Exhausted Systems; Insomnia; Kidney Troubles; Depraved Blood, arising from bad kidney
processes; Gout; Scrofula; Anaunia; Dyspepsia; Indigestion; Paralysis; Blood Diseases (contracted
or congenital); Bronchitis ; Asthma and General Debility.
In the treatment of all the above complaints eminently successful results have been obtained by
the Specialists by reason of the special study given to diagnosis, treatment and cure.
A XJ3BFXJL MEDICAL WORK.
One shilling in stamps posted to the Specialists will assure you the receipt of a nicely bound 500
lv illustrated medical work “Clinical Experiences,” which will be a welcome addition
page, splendidly U igQ illustrationS; and is full of medical literature of value in
Australian households. Orders should be sent in at once as this book is in great demand, applications
for it being daily received.
All Letters and Correspondence to be addressed to
The FREEMAN and WALLACE
Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute,
ELIZABETH apd BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.


Modern Scientific Authorities
DECLARE
H Jm *99
THE
X
Healthiest Smoking Mixture
In £lb. and £lb. AIR-TIGHT TINS.
Of Messrs. M. RUTTY & CO., 68 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY,
AND ALL THEIR AGENTS.
®°' e Manufacturers: ARDATH TOBACCO CO., 44 Worship Street, London, England.
[6-12]
WOOL. PRODUCE. GRAIN.
The New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Coy., Ltd., SYDNEY,
A - CT A-S SELLIKTO- BROKERS OKTLY.
Consignors are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of this Company.
WOOL
COMMISSION FOR SELLING THREE-QUARTERS (g).PER CENT.
WAREHOUSING
'(lncluding Receiving into Store, Fire Insurance,
Weighing, Lotting, Repacking, Sample Bales,
Advertising, Cataloguing, etc.) on Wool real-
, ising over SIXPENCE per lb. the charges
- will be
On Wools realising SIXPENCE and over Four-
pence per lb :
On Wools realising FOURPENCE per ib. arid
under
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. 6d. per Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
Perfect System of Weighing. Way Bills sent on Application.
PRODUCE
SALES of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, etc., HELD WEEKLY.
WHEAT.
Every inducement is offered growers to consign their grain for realisation by the Company
Ample accommodation is provided. Three months free storage is allowed. Circulars are sent when
desired giving cost of railage and full particulars as to Charges, Advances, etc., etc.
AG-ENTS FOR McDOTJG-ALL'S SHEEP DIP.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL, , you enjoy your lunch
George and Market Sts. 9
SYDNEY.
APARTMENTS:
BEDROOM (single), 3s. per DAY.
BEDROOM (double), 6s. per DAY.
Single Room, with Full Board, Bs. per
day, or JG2 2s. per week.
TERMS. —The convenient
system of paying- for the
room on arrival and
meals as they are had.
When you come to Roberts’ Hotel
Dining Rooms ; and you not only
enjoy it, but it does you good as
well. There is always a large and
tempting variety of excellent food on
our menu, and on Fridays there is a
special fish luncheon for those who
want it in addition to the ordinary.
The luncheon is ready at twelve
o’clock sharp—from Is.—and there
is first-class attendance. Dinner and
tea from 5.30 to 7.3 o—from Is.
upwards. Silver grill at work.
ELECTRICAL
5 and
MINING ENGINEERS,
ibi#
%
NOTE NEW ADDRESS!
■Sf
Yaralla Chambers,
109 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE Office: 15 &17 Queen Street.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
PLAYS
Catalogue
Free . . .
French’s Acting Edition,
df
Rare Books
French Novels
Books the Married
Extra Special Catalogue of
Hooks Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL & 900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Botfclle are universally acknowledged
I*o DEFY COMFETITIOISr.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&c
SPIRITS.
manufacturers of mineral WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
(LIMITED).
(X>a<lse Illa.wa.rra),
near SYOWEY.
SMELTERS
REFINERS
PRODTTCEH9
OB'
F.NE SILVER.
ißlli
; -
: ' § ■ - i
| .
.t® • I
t !
W:i
MAKERS OF
S. Co, of A. SOFT
LEAD’'
AMU
ILLAWARRA'
• • BKAIM 1> 01?..
SOFT LEAD,
Purchaser, of .11 classes of GOLD. SILVER LEAD COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS' SWEEP REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLIO f
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMEN flp , 0 f ASSAYS
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to P. S. Morse. Manager, Tn Smelting Company of Austral* *, ud DAPTO NSW
“ Melb.”: The Chinese Times is shortly
coming out as a newspaper. Office in Russel 1-st.
Melbourne. Language, the chopstiok variety,
l here has long been a placard newspaper stuck
up in Lilly Buck-stleet.
A letter from the cheerful North :—
dust . arrived here from Brisbane. At Keppel Bay a
mob of Hindus came on board, bound for Cairns : they
"’ e _ r 0 e ? n m the T ' 1 , eck ; 3 Pa°e of the steerage passen-
F ", l'iat Top Island a mob of Kanakas came on
b °j* rd ’ Bound f °r Thursday Island ; they were also
dumped on the steerage deck-space. Those two mobs of
niggers used the steerage lavatory, with disgusting
results. The white passengers could not enter it for filth
J? erfun l e - The fingers on the hands of one of the
the wash-dishes and towel in the lavatory
were shrivelled and decayed, and appeared to be rotten.
A passenger declared that it was a case of leprosy. The
ThT’ b u"J ° 1 ccu P ied b y niggers, was not washed down.
The well-deck was stacked with fruit, fowls and sheep ;
the forecastle deck stacked with heathen. Weather hot
and other disadvantages. At night the stacks of fruit
hy tb ?. m ?S e rs for purposes that need not be
specified. The shipping people ought to be compelled to
prov!de separate accommodation for the unclean Asiatics,
or dump them with their friends, the saloon passengers.
“F.O.”: ’Tisn’t only Ram Ohunder and
Ah Fat to whom the immigration test may yet
have to be applied. There are others. A couple
of years ago the Melbourne small boy started
selling boronia and other vegetables in Swanston-
st., Saturday mornings ; but he has retired insol-
vent, and his place is taken by black-haired,
dark-eyed youngsters from Italy and Greece—■
mostly rounded up and looked after by a large
Dago in a greasy smile and buttered hair. Later,
the Australian native’s father started hawking
cheap fruit in the same street —to the great annoy-
ance of the shopkeepers. To-day he is almost
extinct, while Demetrius, the son of Homer, and
Macaroni, the heir of the Caesars, carry, the justly-
suspected banana in his stead. In South America
the Italian is elbowing the Argentine, to a great
extent, out of commercial life ; the Dago is get-
ting a stronger and stronger hold on the capital,
while the haughty lord of the soil runs after a
horse in the back-country. Is it going to be
something like this in Australia ?


THE
/EOLIAN.
“ It seems too good to be true ”
is what one woman writes about the performances of an
HColian she has recently purchased.
She could not believe it possible that she could have in her
own drawing-room an agent through which she could produce
any piece of music ever written, at any time, in a truly
artistic manner with discriminate emphasis and the most
refined expression—thousands of pieces which she could never
otherwise hear; music of all masters, ancient or modern,
of every style and grade of excellence, from a
Palestrina Motet to the latest popular song.
, The Quartets, Symphonies, and Sonatas of Haydn, Mozart,
j Beethoven, Brahms ; the Chorales, the Fugues,
} Suites, Sonatas of Bach.
i The entire orchestral scores of the music-dramas of Wagner.
The marvellous musical poetry of Schumann and Chopin.
The exquisite songs of Schubert, Franz, and Brahms.
The Overtures of Weber, Rossini, Verdi, Meyerbeer, Donizetti,
Auber, Suppe, Balfe, Thomas,
Gounod, Bizet, Goldmark, Humperdinck.
The fascinating Gypsy music of Hungary—
The Rhapsodies of Liszt.
In short, the whole world of music.
An impression prevails that /Eolians are very expensive instruments, and
can only I e afforded by the very rich. This is a mis ake ; you can buy a good
/Eolian for less than you would pay for a piano and on < asy payments. Ihe
cheapest /Eolian plays more than five thousand composit ons—and plays them
well, too.
Send for Catalogue.
The /Eolian Co. of New York.
HENRY M. BIRGE & CO.,
SYDNEY: 323 George St. MELBOURNE: 18S & 187 Collins Bt.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
m
m
zm
vi
a
r,; kM*.m
■■■Ml
111111
m
WUmm
■
B
m
m
mm
g
dfg
df
Sailor Bill Comes Back.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’ve been to sea for twenty years, an’ though I’m
London-bred,
There ain’t such stacks of things for me to learn
about a shed.
I’ve shore from ’way up Ayrshire Downs across to
Paratoo;
An’ rung the shed at Yardea, in eighteen-seventy-
two.
An’ when the old bush days come back to me on
sea and shore
I often sez, “ I’d like to top a tally-board once
more.”
When I think of stand and pen,
Why I’d like to shear again
Them sandy West-side wethers, just to give the
cry of “ Wool 1 ”
“ Wool ! ” —hear it—“ Wool! ” An’ I drove the
shinin’ tool,
An’ made the mighty cheque to melt with a white
an’ friendly school.
O ! the times, too good to last,
When the tongs went fairly fast,
An’ we used to bog- the pickers-up with tons of
Welcome wool !
So, when I strikes “ Noo South ” again I takes the
train to Hay,
An’ out I goes to get a shed in the real old-
fashioned way,
But when I sights an engine’s smoke, a good few
miles from town,
Thinks I, “This ain’t no shed I’ve struck —but
some darned boilin’-down.”
But soon I see the loaded teams an’ the sheep
shoot down the slide :
“ It’s right,” I sez, an’ lightin’ up, I starts to go
inside.
“We don’t allow no pipes !”
I turns and sees, be Cripes 1
A gilt-edged god in dungaree. “ Can’t I smoke?”
He sez, ‘ ‘ No, no ! ”
“No!”—always “No!” ’Twas the same right
through the show,
For you mustn’t smoke or sing or spell, or, darn
vou ! out you go.
In my day, joke and song
Passed the pleasant time along—
But these dumb dogs was drove and cowed by the
crackin’ whips of “ No! ”
For once I pockets pride and pipe—to see their
gaudy shed;
But, ghost! that blessed marble hall would fairly
strike you dead.
An’ then I sees the boss himself a-comin’ down
the board,
An’ he had a golden bracelet on—that’s gospel,
by the Lord !
A bracelet—yes, and blinkers, too, an’ a white
and stiffened shirt.
I sez, “ Mate, you’ve robbed the missis, why not
get her muslin skirt ? ”
Then he looks me up and down
With a toffish sort of frown—
Thinks I, “ He’ll cuss me hearty now,” but he
stares and just sez “ Haw 1 ”
“Haw!”—only “Haw!” I’d have thumpid
him on the jaw !
I'd have broke bis bloomin’ gig-lamps, but the
cove would take the law,
With his flash and toney clothes,
An’ his haughty, turned-up nose !
O, a shed is never healthy when the bloomin’ boss
sez “Haw!”
Instead of good old shears we used for swingin’
blows and wide,
They’d just a cut-down curry-comb witli a blow-
fly stuck inside.
Each man would grab his mutton and he’d give
his hand a sweep
An’ pick his awful patent up and paralyse the
sheep !
I marks one cove bring out his prey ; he treats
her like a toff—
He holds her like a lady and he sort of saws it
off.
She was just a common yow,
And he nibbles at her so
That when I sees the cut he gives, I looks and sez
“ O Lord ! ”
Yes, I sez “ 0 Lord f ” I did, upon me word,
For I could have shore that jumbuek better with
a swaddy’s sword.
And he opens up with prayer—
Yes, he asks a blessin’ there —
An’ I leans against the catchin’ pen an’ looks an’
sez “ O Lord ! ”
That night I sees them playin’ cards : Thinks I,
“ They’ll stake a bit.”
But they plays fer bloomin’ matches. There!
Gord’s truth ! I had a fit.
An’ when I tells them who I was a lot of blokes
come round—
“ I used to get my twenty-five, ” I sez, “ or twenty,
found.”
And how they laughed : “ O, dicken, now ! ” they
sez, “ just drop your tricks.
“ A pound's tip-top; we’re shearin’ here for
seventeen-and-six !
Yes, they’ve docked us half-a-crown,
But everything’s come down.
Look at wool! ” “All blanky fine,” I sez, “ but
what about your cut ? ”
“Cut?” sez tliej', “Cut?”—every beggar in the
hut.
“ Yes,” I sez, “so mind your bloomin' stops and
keep your language shut.
When your combs an’ things you cop, you’re a
bloomin’ barber's shop ;
Its a dashed clean shave you give ’em here ; it ain’t
a workin’ out. ”
An’ then they tries to shove it down me neck tl, t
black was white
About their tallies, and the like, until I stops
their skite.
“A hundred up at Yalleroi,” I sez, “is just your
mark;
An’ what about the references you carry like a
clerk ? ”
1 told them that a lot of coves like them would
nark a -saint 1
“You think you’re bush apostles—but I’ll bet a
bob you ain’t.
I’ve been a shearer when
The sheep was shorn by men—
Not crawlin’ skitin’ germs!” “And now,”sez
they, “you’d better get!”
“ Get! ” sez they : “ Get! ” —I could see they has
me set ;
An’ I wasn’t taking fifty cookies on at once, you
bet.
So I saddles up me prads and I sez, “Good-bye,
me lads,
Ye’re the hungriest God-forgotten lot as ever yet
I met! ”
But I soon finds worse in traveilin’—yes 1 strike
me blue, I did !
I meets coves on the road who’d gladly shear for
half a quid.
An’ mean as hungry cat-fish, too—to show the
kind they breed —
I strikes one shed of human wrecks that charged
a bob a feed !
“Well! Well!” thinks I, “I’m full of this—
here’s off to sea again,
The old-time shearing’s gone for good—an’ so’s the
old-time men.
Ah, the click-click of the shears
Went like music in me ears ;
But, since them buzzin’ little saws come in—why,
shearin’s done 1
Done ! Yes, it’s done, an’ on ev’ry jolly run;
For a cut that’s drove by steam ain’t a reasonable
one.
So sling it, mates, because
It ain’t the game it was :
it’s blighted, busted, bankrupt! Aye—it’s did-
dled, damned, and done !
N.s.w.
CECIL POOLE.
Some Westralian Notes.
. “Mungung” to The Bulletin
Westralian aborigines improve in physique the further
northward you travel. Not infrequently they show a
strain of Malay; and perfectly wild ones may be met
with fine, straight, fairish hair, tn the Sandy Desert is
a tribe with highly-developed rtoSes of quite a Jewish
cast. All W. A. blacks are distinguished by tribe-marks—
simply gashes on their chests or their arms—vertical,
horizontal, or oblique. One tribe only is distinguished
by a missing front tooth.
Near Nullagine, an alluvial mining township, 350 miles
from Roebourne, is a camp of about 1000 blacks, which
has never within the knowledge of the blacks themselves
been shifted. The camp simply moves round (carrying
its Government blanket) at intervals) and arrives at the
same spot again, The capable portioh of the camp
washes, chops wood, and carries Water for the miners,
Gooda, a big black and casual acquaintance, impor-
tuned me for liquor, and, being refused) became so
abusive that I went for him. Gooda made an occasional
feint) and at each blow fell right down, and was up again
like an india-rubber ball. In half an hour I had enough—
the meeting adjourned for refreshments.
Saw two blacks fight a duel. One defended himself with
an elliptical shield, while the other was allowed so many
throws of the spear (the Homeric way of duelling, by the
way). A spear went right through the former’s body, in
the region of the ribs. He pulled it out; his friends
plastered him thoroughly with mud, and in a few days he
was all right. Another black chastising his yakin (gin),
felled her to the ground with a club. Her relations then
attacked the man, and presently the gin jumped up and
gathered up spears to assist her lord in the fray. Same
old Woman—color no difference !
Long Paddy, a black, was gaoled for stealing from the
miners’ camp, and sentenced to work with the road-gang,
in which two prisoners are attached to each wheelbarrow-
one to each handle—by an iron collar and chain. Long
Paddy arranged with his mate to bolt, but the mate
unfortunately fell, and Paddy, in desperation, literally
dragged him to death. Reaching the hills, Paddy
battered the chains to pieces with stones and was not re-
captured for 18 months.
Blacks were reported to have stolen cattle from a cer-
tain station. The police went out, collared It hap-
hazard, and brought them before a certain J.P. (name
given) who was part owner of the said station. The in-
terpreter was a black from another tribe, probably know-
ing little or nothing of their lingo. After some unin-
telligible barney he announced that they all admitted
stealing one bullock each. Sentence, two years all
round. The prisoners were chained in one long row, and
driven 80 miles to Marble Bar, where one died, and then
230 miles further to Roebourne, another dying on the way.
Again, two blacks sentenced (for vagrancy) to three months
gaol, were chained together and driven by a policeman,
with a liberal use of the whip, 30 miles in one day,
keeping up with the pace of the constable’s horse.
One died on the third day, shortly after reaching his
destination, and the examining doctor’s report was
“galloping consumption in conjunction with heart-
disease.” Did the doctor mean to be funny ?
A policeman molested his black tracker’s gin.. Tracker
objected ; whereupon policeman struck him with the
whip, but the tracker wrested it from him. Then the
policeman produced his revolver, took the tracker pri-
soner, and got him gaoled.
A certain squatter—one of the meanest men there-
abouts—hired a Chinaman for two years at £BO a year.
The Chinaman chummed-up with an aboriginal woman
employed on the station, and leaving at the expiration of
his term, found £BO deducted on account of the gin.
One squatter, preparing for his wedding-day, deported
the ruling gin to the out-station, 24 miles away, but,
after marriage, returning from a short absence, he found
his bride excluded from the house, while the gin had
resumed her residence within.
Another squatter had about 400 blacks on the station.
They complained of false agreement, and refused to stop,
and, thinking to pacify them, the boss went out with four
white men, a few blacks and trackers, and raided 300
gins. While driving them home the males of the tribe
pursued, and pulled them up at a spot afterwards known
as Battle Hill. Here the two parties fought all night,but
the raiders, having firearms, finally repulsed the pursuers,
and carried away the gins in triumph.
This is a free country, but it runs up now
and then against curious Imperial regulations.
Premier Pecksniff, of Victoria, has just intimated
that lie cannot invite local designs for a new State
great seat because, having communicated with
Imperial authorities, the Government finds “ it
lias no option but to send the old seal home, when
a new one will be prepared in London.”
“D.H.R.”: A selector, of NValgett dis-
trict (X.S.W.), recently met with a very peculiar
and unfortunate accident. He.was with sheep.
Came to camp and put the nose-bags on the
horses, made a fire, and then went to the creok
for water. When he returned one of the horses
was on fire. It had wandered to the fire, and the
nose-bag caught. The horse was so badly burin
as to ueoossitato shooting.


Hot-*
Weather
Worries
LASSITUDE, DEBILITY and “SUMMER FAG” are always
prevalent ailments after a spell of hot weather. There
is no reason why this should be so if the system is in a
healthy state. To attain this condition it is necessary to
brace up the system, and especially to put the digestive organs
in thorough working order. For this purpose there is no
preparation so effective as BILE BEANS FOR BILIOUSNESS.
Acting in a gentle manner, they do not (as many other
medicines do) achieve a temporary abatement of the trouble
and eventually leave the system weaker than ever. They,
on the contrary, strengthen and build up the whole
digestive system, purify the blood and tone up the nerves.
A course of BILE BEANS will increase your vitality and
enable you to take work and recreation alike with pleasure.
gd
THE WORLD’S BEST.
C. L. HAUTHAWAY & SONS’
PEERLESS GLOSS
is an oil dressing which so softens the leather that
smaller sized shoes can be worn with perfect comfort.
« Peerless Gloss ” is the great dressing triumph of the
world, as it imparts a brilliant and permanent polish to
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S
shoes that outrivals all other dressings, and yet it does not
contain anything injurious to the leather. Beware of
imitations. Demand Hauthaway’s “Peerless Gloss,” and
take no substitute. For sale nearly everywhere. Made
only by C. L- Hauthaway & Sons, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
ft
HOTELKEEPERS!
MAKE YOUR OWN
/eratedwaters.
Finest "waters (LEMONADE, GINGER ALE, SODAWATEJt.
S^'TSSSM as >t
requires no skilled labor to work it.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
ECKERSLEY & SONS,
214-216 Queen-st., MELBOURNE.
Eradicates Scurf.
Promotes Growth.
< ■ ,_r *
1 §®lili IMMBMii
Prevents Hair Falling.
Contains no Dye.
A Black Pastoral.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was the Blacks’ Camp. Mrs. Charters had
never been there before, and now she hesitated at
the smell.
She was the station-manager’s wife, a new
importation, who was about to return South and
wanted to take a black girl with her. She had
already made overtures for the young lubra Sally
and a piccaninny that had lost its mother.
The Camp was simply wilderness made untidy*
Here and there rough shelters of boughs leaning
against supports. Here and there remains of
fires. There was a sickly smell of burnt flesh and
hair about. Dogs snarled and yelped everywhere.
Very few blacks showed. This was because a bull
had been shot and there had been a great feed of
free beef. An aged boy or two lay about, dis-
tended and dozy.
“Where’s Sally’’’cried Mrs. Charters to an
old black fellow who squatted leaning against a
tree in a sort of swelled knot and peeped at her
indifferently over his shoulder.
“ Where’s Sally ? Find her and send her to the
bough-shed ! ” she repeated.
The old man muttered something.
“ What’s that you say ? ” she asked, frowning.
“Too busy,” murmured the old man simply.
Mrs. Charters stood dumbfounded. Then she
began to scold.
This raised a weak yabber-yabber among the
half-awake blacks, and presently the lubra was
brought forward, dragging a staring piccaninny.
Mrs. Charters looked upon her acquisitions
intently. The lubra, on her part, regarded her
future mistress with apparent indifference mixed
with a shifting of the eye that indicated a desire
to bolt. . . ~,
“You come alonga white lady?” queried Mrs.
Charters. “You come alonga bough-shed ?
Plenty tucker ; plenty everything ! ”
The lubra nodded. She looked around the
camp and nodded again.
Yes ! She would go and be like the white
women who live in the bough-sheds and run about
among their beautiful things like the bovver-birds.
She would have a red dress, and a full pipe, and
eat all day long. The piccaninny stared dumbly
about as though it did not know what to say
about such a bargain, but had unspeakable mis-
gi rings.
' “ Sally ! Where are you ? ” cried Mrs. Charters.
“You bad girl! Go and brush out the bough-
shed at once. My ! What a mess you are in !
Throw that nasty pipe away ! Go and wash go
and wash yourself, I say —-and don’t let me catch
you again sitting on your heels like a savage when
there are decent chairs to sit on !
“Oh, shut up ! ” growled the manager.
“Tom Charters!” cried his wife, “how dare
you speak to me like that ? I’ll give you a piece
of mv mind in a minute ' ”
“ Why can’t you let the brutes alone ? he asked.
“They must be treated firmly—firmly, but
justly,”'she said. You could see the pleasures of
severity welling up within her, tempered with a
certain Methodistical conscience. ,
“ It’s a good job you’re taking her down bouth,
he returned. “She’d soon be back to the mob if
vou didn’t.”
*'•***
They were at the hotel in the township. The
lubra lay huddled together in the corner of the
verandah. She and the piccaninny could hear
each other’s hearts beating. Her limited, intelli-
gence was paralysed with the quantity of things
forced into it. Strange eyes staring at her—white
children pulling faces —people rushing about. At
night the innumerable lights, the smell of kero-
sene, the distant thunder of a fight in the bar.
These things made her sick with strangeness,
sulky with wonder.
In the morning she hid behind the tree-ferns on
the verandah, afraid that they would make her
scrape the earth with a brush, a thing she
detested, but a white woman did all this, to her
astonishment, while she looked suspiciously on.
Then Mrs. Charters came out and the miserable
day began as usual by her having to rub her face
in water.
• * * *
When they got to the railway station the men
leaning on the fence stared curiously at her, and
her glance shifted uneasily under theirs, as she
moved after her mistress with the stately timidity
of a conquered animal.
“Poor wretch ! ” said one fellow y X guess she
wonders what it’s all about!”
Another man looked at it differently :
“Fancy a woman dragging a human monkey
like that away South with her,” he growled. “Its
just woman’s love of notoriety ! ”
The black girl read his contempt in his face and
shrank away, clasping the piccaninny, who stared
pitifully up at her. The lubra got into the rail-
way-carriage stealthily and stared around her.
What was going to happen next? This building
began to move, like the coach, only faster, faster,
and more smoothly. It started off with a shriek
which went straight to her nerves. She clutched
the child and glared in terror out of the window
of the lonsr saloon, watching the trees and
telegraph-poles flying past. This could never last!
The horses must have bolted. But she could see
no horses. .
Her mistress seemed to think nothing of it.
“Be quiet, Sally!” she would say. “It’s all
right-! 5>
She endeavored to control herself and not let
her terror be shown to these hard white people
who laughed at her.
Some time had passed. The monotonous clank
and clang of the carriage beat into her brain and
fascinated her. But presently the sounds began
to alter. The train was slowing-down.
As she craned her neck to get a glimpse of the
horses, and to see where the smoke came from, she
suddenly saw they were approaching a great
water. They were rushing straight for a wide
river !
There was not a moment to be lost. It was
certain death !
She clasped the child closer to her breast, and
glared out once more. Yes ! They were about to
be flung right down into the big water ! There
was no escape.
At that moment a dreadful scream was heard—
the whistle of the engine—but to her terrified
imagination it was a cry of impending death.
In an instant she was outside on the platform,
clutching the precious piccaninny. It was her
mistress’s scream that now rang in her ears and
stung her to madness. Next moment she had
sprung wildly off the train and was rolling down
the red embankment. When she came to herself
there was a dead, dusty silence, broken only by
the whimper of the piccaninny. She pulled her-
self together and stood up, still giddy with the
horror of the white man’s thunder-machine. She
felt stunned an I terribly bruised, but staggered
over to the child, which lay expostulating in the.
long grass. She had saved it from the first shock,
and it had simply been jerked from her arms and
bowled into a soft place. She flung herself down
and petted it. Then, without dreaming of looking
aside after her white mistress, without a glance at
the long span of the bridge over which the train
had long since passed, she scrambled to her feet
again and staggered off, with the child on her
hips, towards the friendly gum-trees, away from
the awful track of the white people who had so
nearly been her destruction.
She had lost the unearthly scents of the hotel,
and therailway, which had filled herwith homesick-
ness. Here once more was the smell of the earth,
trampled by cattle, and the rich aroma of the hot
bush. Far down among the spreading gums and
stunted mulga she crept, the child clinging to her,
when her eye was caught by a rude shelter and
still smouldering fire. A blackfellow in the ragged
shirt and breeches of a station-black was watching
her from behind some scrub. As she caught sight
of him he came slowly forward.
They looked at each other with curious eyes for
a time. His hair stuck through his battered hat,
giving him a wild appearance.
“Where you come from?” asked the black-
fellow.
“Me jump—jump from coach”—she replied
rapidly, pointing in the direction of the vanished
train. “ Coach run into big water —me jump with
piccaninny ! ”
He laughed, guessing that she did not under-
stand the train. He was half-civilized and knew
about it.
“ Where you go?” he queried.
She shook her head.
“You come alonga me,” he demanded.
She shook her head again sullenly. Then she
quavered:
“ Me go alonga bush, alonga mine country.”
He looked at her carefully for a time. Then he
stepped towards her, but she started back, afraid
of him, and ran.
A wild wish for freedom made her try frantic-
ally to escape.
The blackfellow picked up a piece of fallen tree-
limb and ran in pursuit. She redoubled her
efforts, but, shaken with her fall and hampered
with the child, her speed of foot forsook her. As
the blackfellow came up she gave a little shriek,
trying to spring aside, but he forestalled the
movement, and, with one stunning blow, laid her
at his feet.
For the second time that day the piccaninny
felt the ground and howled. Then the black-
fellow caught hold of the lubra and dragged her
back to the camp, dumping her down in a heap.
The child crept after her, howling in a subdued
voice, while he jabbered at it. Then he sat on his
heels and waited.
Presently the lubra came-to and got up. She
clutched the whimpering child and sat awhile
considering her position. Yes, he had knocked
her on the head and she was his !
A feeling of relief crept across her aching brain.
She had nothing further to consider. She was
safe. He would help her to hide from white
women.
Within an hour she and her master were yabber-
yabbering confidentially while the piccaninny
played unconcernedly in the ashes.
Then evening fell, and as the sun sank swiftly
down, the wail of the mosquito was in her ear and
the far-off konk-konk of the the bull-frog.
She sat on her heels, talking to herself, and
thinking of the dreadful white people from whom
she had so fortunately escaped. She was playing
with twigs and leaves, putting them listlessly on
the fire to keep the evil spirits away. She
coughed and mewed mournfully :
“Pari munna,” she grumbled, and “Para-
wanga ” she sang i.u a qua 'ering whine, full of the
unreasonableness of the Wnite Woman.
And far away in the opal-ranges the throat of
the distant dingo echoed back her complaint.
POINT BLANK.
The Heart’s Irony.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Two women sat on a park seat watching a sun-
beam—a tiny dot with golden curls in a blue
frock—bobbing here and there in the sunlight.
Every now and then she would bring some
treasure for “ muvver to mind.” The eyes of the
mother and the old maid followed her. As she
came running towards them again, the old maid’s
hand went out awkwardly to caress her. The child
stopped and stared at her wonderingly. The
hand still went on nervously smoothing the
golden head.
“Have oo dot an ittle dirl like me?” The
stiff mouth smiled feebly.
“ Why don’t oo det one ? ”
There was no answer. A red flush stained the
old maid’s face. The hands plucked timidly at
the dull frock. The little one ran off into the
sunlight.
Both women were silent. Then the mother:
“ You mustn’t mind ”
“Mind? Oh, God ! I would give everything
I possess to have a little one of my own like her.
My arms ache ”
The mother’s eyes flashed ; then the lips curved
bitterly. .
“Yes, my friend, you would give everything m
the world save one thing ”
“Everything, Isay—What?”
“ Your Respectability.”
The eyes clashed, and the woman went on :
“Listen. All my life I have lived in the
midst of temptations, and God alone knows how
many I had, and how I resisted them, till he
came, and I loved him—he loved me, too, but
with a man’s love. He is the little one’s father ; he
pleaded—and I—well, surely the recording angel,
if there is one, remembers how many temptations
I resisted—but the world only remembers that
once. Pity me, do not blame me.”_
“ Pity you ! ” and there was a curious note in the
old maid’s voice. “Pity you! you have been
' loved—you have— ” Here the eyes with their
vague, seeking look, softened, and a wave. of emo-
tion broke over the plain face. “ His child—Oh,
God ! I envy you. It is I who should be pitied—
I, who was never—tempted ! ”
The Sunbeam, tired of play, catching a hand of
each says, “ Turn ’ome.”
H. EVANS.
At the Warracknabeal (Vic.) police court
on Jan. 8 two young men were committed for
trial, charged with offences against a young girl,
aged 14. The evidence of the girl was that she
was a consenting party, and she admitted to
criminal intercourse with three others. Then the
father of this promising young woman was eharged
with incest, and she swore to the commission of
the offence, but the father was discharged for the
lack of corroborative evidence. This girl,. her
father, three brothers and one sister all lived in a
one-roomed hut. If these, facts get to China .we
may expect to hear of a mission to the Victorian
heathen.


Bad Blood; Boils and Sores.
A Great Blood-Purifier and Tonic.
Almost Unbearable Heat of Summer Soon Puts
One in the Grave.
A Valuable Fever Antidote.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
<?re.
“While in West Australia one of us had what is known as ‘Barco'o Sick-
ness,’ due to bad food and water, together with the almost unbearable summer
heat of that colony. This disease soon puts a man in his grave unless he treats
it promptly. I came out of it in fine shape because I relied entirely on Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla for a cure.
“ Both of us have used this great remedy for boils and sores on our arms and
hands, as a blood-purifier and general tonic, and as a perfect antidote to fever
while in camp or at home. We both believe there is no remedy equal to this
grand old medicine we know so well.”
Dowling Bros., of 103 Hindley St., Adelaide? So. Australia, send us this letter
and the above photographs with permission to use. After such an experience
they can certainly call Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Be sure you get the right kind of Sarsaparilla—“Ayer’s.” Don’t let any-
body induce you to try some other kind. You will regret it if you do.
If you are not in gooti, vigorous health, if your nerves are not so strong as
you wish, if you are feeling run down and depressed, buy Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
today and begin the certain cure.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Builds up the Whole System.
AYER’S PILLS act on the liver; they cure biliousness.
a POLICY FOR TH€
COMMONWEALTH.
Being! a series of articles re-
printed from “The Bulletin,”with
an appendix dealing with the
Fiscal Question.
Price, 6d.; posted, Bd.
fg
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cure
l’ir Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS 1
IMAGNESIA,
:
A
Sold Throughout the Worid.
N.8.-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA.
df
sEB lOs.
Tel., 2710 Redfern
This-Special No. 3 Sulky
with Wing Boards well
adapted for country roads
and terd usage. Will give
univeral satisfaction.
Pittman’s Commonwealth
Steam Coach Worsts
176 and 178 Morehead Si-, Redfern.
THE THREE CAUSES;:
BECAUSE Pittman’s Vehicles are articles of real worth
and true merit.
BECAUSE they are always in ready demand.
BECAUSE when their superior qualities hav e once been
demonstrated, you will have; no other
than Pittman’s Vehicles.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue and F’rice List
Full Description A Prices of Vehicles free on a] 'plication
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
FOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Issu-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Costiveness, 81 0 Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE .b IKS 1 DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WOKi*.H A
GUINEA A BOX.”
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health,
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
They
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, ana
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame.
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medietne m
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECEAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is lid, and 2s 9d each.
Tlje BOIIctii) Story Book,
OP CONTENTS.
gd
At Yarrawonga ... ...
His Haie
Strawberry : A Love Stoby
The Patient’s Hand-8e11...
The Correspondence of a
Little Dressmaker
A Martyr of No Account...
Nick Veddbb’s Gold
Products ...j
An Error in Administration
A Bridal Party and a Dog
Broken China
The Dispersion of Mbs.
Black
White-When - He’s-Wanted
The Tramp .i
The Man who saw a Moa ...
From the Log of the Out-
ward Bound
On Our Selection
A Box of Dead Roses
A Stripe fob Trooper Casey
Swamp-Swallowed
Bailifes I Have Met
Three Cups of Tea ...
Silhouettes: My Horse ...
Hanging and Hell
The School at Sergeant’s
The Burial Service of a
Musioia'n
Selling Scripture Texts...
“ Colonial Experience”...
The Ferryman
Barmy Barker’s Boots ...
The Benefit of Clergy ...
F. S. Delmer
Mabel Ho I mes
J. J. Poynton
F.M.W.G.
Maud Light
C. JET. Souter
A. Conway.
A. Rose-Soley
A. C. M'Cay
“ Omega ”
“ Hoiya ”
“Robin Studholme”
A. B. Paterson
Barbara Baynton
“ Weka ”
J. H. Greene
Arthur H. Davis
Ethel Mills
Roderie Quinn
Alex. Montgomery
Victor J. Daley
F. Rollett
“A. Chee”
Phil. Mowbray
“ Ponte ”
“ McG.”
“ Boiling Billy ”
J.P.
L. De Bakker
E. S. Sorenson
Alex. Allen
Obtainable
- V . 4, , v V :
from all Booksellers; price, 4s.
post-free from the Publishers.
6d.
■
fg
The How -We - Beat - the -
Favourite Affliction ...
Gig Fours
Don’t Let the Moth Get In
The Winner of the Squat-
ters’ Cup ; ...
The Three Roads
Christmas Belle
My Mate Bill
What the Bottle Said ...
A German Lament
The Anarchist
The Fall of Patrick
Dooley
The Jester of the Damned
The Hairy Man of Koora-
watha
A Big “Bust”
A Tight Corner
The Road to Wyoming
Jim Jamieson, of Tringabar
The Mallek Fire
Among the Palms
Dreams and Deeds
Boko
“ Dunno ! ”
The Fat Man and the War
The Shoe
The Cocky’s Handy Man ...
Bashful Gleeson
Skee'j a
The Currency Lass
The Confidential Jockey
How We Won the Ribbon
A Twisted Idyl
The Tugs of Simpsonville
The Sick Cab-Rider
Tambaroora
Father Riley’s Horse
O’Toole and M'Sharry ...
Faces in the Street
The Bush Missionary
The Last Bullet
The Honeymoon Train ...
The Murder-Night
A Scotch Night
M. M. O'Donnell
“ McO .”
T. A. Wilson
Frank Bellman
Victor J. Daley
“ John Carew ”
G. H. Gibson
E. J. Brady
“ Bendee ”
Arthur H. Adams
E. J. Dempsey
J. If. Greene
“ Tom Freeman ”
Edward Dyson
C. H. Soiiter
Evelyn Thrclfall
“ Pan ”
G. If. Souter
“ Hesketh ”
E. J. Dempsey
“ Curlew ”
Bernard Espinasse
“ Magnet ”
J. M. L.
“Ben Sun”
Edward Dyson
Bar croft Boake
itoderic Quinn
Francis Kenna
Will H. Ogilvie
Frank Morton
W. T. Goodge
Edmund Fisher
“ Bendee ”
A. B. Paterson
Thomas E. Spencer
Henry Lawson
W. T. Goodge
John Farrell
A. G. Stephens
Hugh M'Grae
Will H. Ogilvie
Obtainable from all Booksellers, price 55.; or post-free
from the Publishers.
TI)C BOlletii) Newspaper Co. Ltd.,
214 George st., Sydney, Australia.


Asbestos Boiler Covering
... Saves 25 Per Cent, in Fuel ...
PACKED WET, Ready for Use, in 3cwt. Casks, 7/-, 8/-, 9/- owt.
PACKED DRY, in Bags, each lcwt., 12/-, 14/-; 18/- cwt.
Estimates given -far Covering Boilers and
Steam Pipes.
gOUR ASBESTOS BOILER COVER
" Saves 25 per cent, in Fuel.
PERDRIAU and COMPANY,
zrxT. —268-270 Ceorge Street, Sydney
df
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W_ c. EX,IDiaiX)C3-S & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(opp. Centenary Hall).
Cowntry Orders by post, from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
V JL /
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
gd
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Worthington Pimps
For all Services kept in Stock.
Send for Catalogue.
fg
SPOONS
& FORKS
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
df
J. & J. MAXFIELD, PBOPM.. SHEFFIELD.
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS,
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.
SYDNEY.
Also at
BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
S. FREEMAN * SONS L.!«|Tl£
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
BEAD OFFICE : WTNTABD SQUARE, SYDNEY,
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
*
b
V
P c
COOL. AND
m 0
REFRESHED
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
- I?5 V£ -c,. ' i " - ' ’
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6 b., 1/- & 2/6.
So/e Makers —M. lEETHAM ft SON. SdELTEfTHAM, ENSLANB
Felton, Grimwade <fc Co,
Melbourne;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
Ottumwa Winding Engine.
Catalogues Free on Application.
WOOD-WORKING
MACHINERY,
ENGINEERS’ FITTINGS,
MINE and MILL SUPPLIES
®o
0 1
to
c e
tft
©
$
Manufacturers and Importers
OF ALL KINDS OF
MINING MACHINERY,
STEAM ENGINES
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will And every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
mHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
X Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
J-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
i. p. mm t co.
General Machinery Merchants,
Sydney & Melbourne.
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
BLAKE STEAM PUMP.
Best Pump in the Market for
Boiler-Feeding irrigating,
Mining,
Fire and Marine Purposes.
SINGLE AND DUPLEX.
Alil< SIZES, uk to 50,000 gallons, Imp.,
per iiour, in Stock.
£@-Send for Particulars and Prices.
the most nutritious.
EPPS’S
GR A TEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST- SUPPER.
Too Stout
I was for years ;by chance I came a^ rnsß a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. WlOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FRFr to any sufferer
sending stamned and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt' street, Sydney
Sending, mention this paper.
■■
Sp PHOSPHATitfE
FAWERES 4
The Only
Food
' ' , w7
containing
Phosphate
For INFANTS and
INVALIDS.
AN ESSENTIAL REQUISITE IN THIS COUNTRY.
THE MICA LUBRICANT CO., S'OUTH SHIELDS, ENG.
Lubricants and Packings for all purposes. Patent Mica Grease, saves 90% in cost of lubrication, and keeps
bearings perfectly cool. Patent Mica Packings last twice as lc, n g as ordinary, and are 25% lighter. They do
not score the rods, but put a mica surface on them, similar ir, appearance to electro-plate.
Solegent for Australasia: R. A. HERVEY. Depot,, 171 Olarence-st., Sydney, N.S.W
DEAFNESS
IN addition to the inconvenience inherent in the infirm-
ity itself, Deafness has a marked influence on the
Mental Development of the individual, when the latter
has been attacked by it in youth.
For a long: time Deafness and Chronic Affections of the
Ear have been considered almost incurable, but recently
a very simple means has been found in the Electricon to
successfully apply Metallic Galvanic Electricity direct to
the ears, permanently curing: Deafness, and completely
banishing all distressing head-noises.
Those who are interested in the subject would do well
to read the complete description of this method of treat-
ment in the Journal for the Deaf, published by the
L. R. VERNON COY., 60-64 Hunter St., Sydney,
and sent FREE to anyone asking for it.
c '«*,
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF lor
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
