

McE WAN’S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY. IRROY’S CHAMP AG]
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
R. G. WATKINS & GO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOK —
Milling' and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
RTTSTOFS Compound Dredge Engine.
MEDICAL CERTIFICATE.
“ Ararat (Victoria), 25 th Aug., 1902.
During the past few years Eczema has become of very
frequent occurrence, especially in children. In the treat-
ment of this troublesome affection the usual medicinal
remedies failed in many cases to give relief, and I was very
pleased to have a new preparation, naihed ‘ Oleac,’ put into
my hands for trial. I can recall to my mind three cases of
children in which the usual remedies had no beneficial
effect, and the application of ‘ Oleac ’ according to the
? rinted directions removed all the irritation of the skin.
have also heard of many adults using the ‘ Oleac ’ with
great benefit.—JAMES SMEAL, Surgeon, &c., Ararat ’’
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK :
By Sixty Bulletin writers. Cloth, 300 pages ;
price, 4s. 6d. ; postage, fid.
SOLE DISTRIBUTING AGENTS l
EDWARDS) DUNLOP & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° u „« str«t, SYDNEY
Have In Stock and to arrive, the following: Ruston, Proctor & Co.’s Compound Dredge Engines and Boilers, Centrifugal
Pumps, Steel Wire Ropes, Bucket Lip Steel, Tyre Steel, Mild Steel, Manganese Steel for Pins and Bushes, &c.
Buckets, Grab Hooks, Links, Grab Hook Points, Tumblers, &c., made to order. OSBORN’S STEEL'CASTINGS.
ENGINES & BOILERS, &c. f FOR GOLD DREDGING
“RACKAROCK,”
Ed.
per lb
I
R. A. HERVEY,
Cor. Clarence & King-Sts.,
SYDNEY.
THORNES
Estbd 1831 WHISKY.
3E£ C3> 33 3=S. T.
m*
(jadleg’s Orient Jjotel.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.
CITY HOTEL
(Fmsr Grad*).
J. A, TURNER - x Proprietor.
PERFECT
‘^WATER
ASSISTS
DIGESTION
SH
LD
BE
E
D
PENFOLD’S WINES.
Grand Champion Prize of Australia at Melbourne, August 22, 1902.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
PEIOES PEE FOOT OF SINGLE AND DOUBLE
BELTING :
2 3 3| 4 6 6 8 10 12 inch.
-fit -/9 -/10J II- 1/2 1/6 IAI 2/8 3/4 4/-
1/2 1/4 1/7 1/10 2/2 2/11 3/5 4/6 5/7 6/9
Agents in every State.
Made by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
IN order to introduce our Gold Wire Jewellery
to the Australian public we have decided to
offer one of the greatest bargains ever seen in the
jewellery trade—w'z., the above handsome Brooch
(any name or three initials) made of extra quality
9ct. gold-filled wire, with heart pendant ; guaran-
teed the sajne quality as the brooch advertised,
complete. Sent post-free on receipt of P. 0.0. or
M.O. for ss. in round wire or sq. twisted wire, 15ct
gold, filled, Bs. Gd. Illustrated catalogues sent free,
SIMS and ELRICK, Manufacturing Jewellers.
Our only address—
COLE’S BOOK ARCADE. MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA
Mining and Dredging Plants.
Fowler Traction Engines.
Engines, Boilers, &c.
The Ciyde Engineering G?t,Lt?
Hopper Waggons, &c.
USE
m
PROOF
Qm ey.s
Office :
10 SUCH ST., SYDNEY
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company,
When in town, pay us a visit. Do vou want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY ? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7 ;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia. £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
cent, more fbr your requirements.
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Red-fern, SYDNEY
JfO. 2
OUK SPE<
£8 18/6
Oelirered at any Wharf * r
XS.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
A NICE PRESENT.
The New Combination PIN-
CUSHION, THIMBLE & REEL
HOLDER, nickel plated, plush
top. Clamps on to any table
by means of a spring. Price,
only 28.; post free.
Star Novelty Company,
229-231 Collins-st.,
Melbourne.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS.
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfleld Parade
ST. HILDA.
J-W bytoT BuilS" h °“*- ***
buying a KEROSENE OAS STOVE insist
on getting a noiseless
JUPITER
The Very Latest
Invention.
Barns Noiselessly,
Without Smell
or Smoke,
Perfectly Safe.
e Obtained First Prize
wherever exhibited.
Stocked by all Leading Hardware Merchants and
Storekeepers.
sole Agents for Australasia —
Efelson and Robertson,
17 LOFTUS ST., SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
Vol. 23. No. 1183.]
[Saturday, October 18, 1902.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE LATEST BOOKS BY THIS WEEK’S MAIL. ,
Robertson & Co. Prop, Ltd.
Austey, A Bayard from Bengal, 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Staekpoole, Lady-Killer, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Bell, Expatriates, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Boothby (Guy), Kidnapped President, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Rauger-Gull, The Serf, 2s Gd & 3s 6d, p. fid,
Field Artillery Training, War Office, 1902, is 3d, p. 3d.
Buekman-Linard, The Horse (cheap edition), 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Braddon, Under Love's Rule, 2* & 2s 6d, postage Gd.
Clowes, Told to the Marines, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Becke (Louis), Adventures of James Shervinton, 2s 6d &
3s 6d, p. 6d.
Warden (Florence), Fight tq a Finish,.Bs 6d, p. 6d.
Moor, Standard of Purity, Foods and l>rugs, 9s, p. Bd.
Wannan, Marine Engineers'Guide (new edt.), 12s 6d, p. 9d.
71 CASTLEBEAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane & London
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL f&rtj JUJUBES
FOR THE THROAT! THE VQiGE ! IHE LUNGS!
Mi-ss AMY CASTLES writes:—“l have used your Eumenthoi
Jujubes and have found them invaluable for the throat, par-
ticularly in case of colds.
I should like to recommend them to all singers.”
aJ.
THE BED PAGE.
The University of Sydney.
A UNIVERSITY is not to be finally judged
by its infancy. But as in the human
species from the tendencies shown in
early childhood, from the readiness or
the failure of the young mind to respond to
the calls made upon it by its environment, some
forecast can be made of manhood; so from the state
of a university which is as yet only 50 years old,
there can be deduced some reasonable ideas of its
probable development in the future. With this
reservation —that as in the child a waywardness
of temper, perceived early, may be checked and
finally eradicated by kindly discipline, or a dull-
ness of understanding corrected by pi’oper train-
ing, so a university may be turned from a wrong
path, or may be forced out of a lazy stagnation, if
the faults are seen and the fitting remedies used
before wrong has become a habit and sloth has
turned to infirmity. The jubilee of Sydney Uni-
versity, just celebrated, when, crowing lustily,
the infant institution brought the deeds of its
little space of 50 years for public judgment, raises
directly the- question whether it is on the path
which leads to national usefulness.
“University” is a bold word. It is in itself
sufficient reply to those who look upon a univer-
sity merely as a body entitled to grind out
degrees, to make doctors or engineers, and law-
yers and bachelors of arts, to examine and to give
diplomas. Many so-called “ universities ” claim no
other function ; but misuse of a word does not
change its meaning. The true university attractsas
to a focus, the choicest spirits of a nation or of a
city, gives them bv study and by discussion the
opportunity of attaining to some knowledge of the
universal and to that state of mind which is intelli-
gent and tolerant. Necessarily a true university
must sum up and express the national spirit of the
people among whom it is placed. Whilst pure
knowledge knows no boundaries and no races, a
very essential condition of its increase and im-
provement is that there should, in its method of
pursuit, be a tinge of national feeling. There is a
very definite distinction between the European
intellect and the Asiatic intellect, and, subdivid-
ing further, between the French intellect—elegant,
critical, subtle, daring ; and the German intellect—
laboriously inquisitive, conscientious and scienti-
fic ; the English intellect—comprehensive, dogma-
tic, conservative ; and the Scottish intellect —stub-
born, fanatical, logical and minute. A university
should reflect the intellectual temperament of its
country. But it should be, nevertheless, abso-
lutely cosmopolitan, holding no barrier of race
against students or against ideas. The “academies”
of the ancient philosophers providing, as they did,
the germ of the modern university, suggested
also what should be its leading features—a ruling
bent of mind constituting the bond of govern-
ment, a brotherhood of students, and ah ab-
solute freedom of discussion. A university
must have an individuality, a “ spirit ’’ of its
own ; there should be certain broad principles
on which, as a body, it is agreed ; it should
have a fraternal organisation embracing students,
graduates and teachers; it should welcome
and discuss with the utmost possible freedom
all new ideas. With the more defined statement
of the first point that, as an Australian institution,
Sydney University should be Australian! in its
individuality, just as Oxford is English and Aber-
deen is Scottish, then all is stated of what Sydney
University should be. It is a mostly Scottish insti-
tution, with no individuality and no spirit except
what is embraced in a sordid commercialism, and
an almost savage intolerance of opinion.
The Scots are a great people, to whose kindness
in managing the bulk of their affairs the English
should be profoundly grateful; and Australia
has, on the whole, no cause to be dissatisfied
because Scotchmen control so many of her mines,
banks, Parliaments, newspapers, and other enter-
prises. But in matters of thought as distinguished
from matters of business, the Scottish intellect is
still so deeply tainted with the bigoted intolerance
of the 16th and 17th centuries, and with a clannish-
ness which, though admirable in some of its
manifestations, tends to strangle freedom of
thought and tolerance of speculation, that a
Scotch-run degree-shop is about the worst de-
parture possible from the ideal of an Australian
University—unless, perhaps, an Irish-run factory
for diplomas and blather.
J*
At its inception Sydney University was in-
tended, in the words of Wentworth, to be “an
institution for the poor,” “ to enlighten the mind,
refine the understanding, and to elevate their
fellow men.” It was to be “ a pregnant womb from
which would arise a long list of illustrious names of
statesmen, of patriots, of philosophers, of philan-
thropists who would shed a deathless halo, not
only on their country, but on that University
which called them into being.” This somewhat
turgid eloquence probably conveyed the'true hopes
of the founders of Sydney University. It cannot
be urged that either the State or private indivi-
duals showed a niggard spirit in supporting the
institution. A huge grant of land, a noble subsidy
to the cost of its buildings, frequent special gifts,
an annual grant (reaching this year to £16,200),
generous concessions in regard to travelling fees—
these represent the State’s support. By the
time the University of Sydney had produced its
first graduate, the late Mr. Justice Windeyer, it
was calculated that it had cost the State £lOO,OOO,
and in its Jubilee year the debit of the University
toN.S.W., including the value of its land endow-
ment, reaches well into the second million.
Private benefactions were not less liberal. The
Challis bequest was £200,000, the P. N. Russell
gift £50,000, and there has been a multitude of
smaller endowments. The object of the univer-
sity was from the first clearly expressed ; money
was from the first generously supplied to fulfil
that object. And the result? The “institution
for the poor” has become one of the great
strongholds of the snobbishness and the inso-
lence of the rich, a place from which the
poor man’s son is barred by almost insuper-
able obstacles, an institution many of whose
members seek- to treat as of inferior caste the
State school teachers for whose training in the Arts
course the Government pays. There isa conspicuous
lack of that enlightenment of the mind, refine-
ment of the understanding, and effort for the eleva-
tion of humanity which Mr. Wentworth in his
optimism predicted. But there is observable much
bigoted intolerance of opinion and narrowness of
view, much hateful religious sectarianism, much
degradation of the mind to snobbish and racial
prejudice. The worship of wealth, the eager
pursuit of contemptible titular distinctions, the
suppression of mental freedom —these are the
chief manifestations of the university spirit in
Sydney.
J*
In other lands, universities have been, as the
occasion demanded, conservative guardians of the
good which was threatened, or radical rebels
against the established evil which had become
intolerable. In Russia the university spirit is
revolutionary, in England it has been at times
radical, but more often conservative. Always
it has been of benefit. No sensible person would
suggest that a university should be the nursery
of a political cult, should be, for example, always
radical. But what is demanded of it, if it is to
fulfil its true functions, is that it should give
expression to the progressive spirit of new thought,
even when it hesitantly weighs in the balance
proposed innovation. It should be the intellectual
and in a sense the political Supreme Court of
the people, eagerly welcoming for discussion
every new thought and new opinion, but deliber-
ate in committing itself to any movement. Cer-
tainly it must have a “spirit,” an intellectual
view, a purpose, an influence on the thought
of the community. Sydney University has none
of these. It is a school, with some very good
and some very poor masters, some graduates of
distinction, some pupils of promise, but with
absolutely no influence on the thought of the
community, no power of light or leading, no appar-
ent purpose in life but to carry on miserable
squabbles and intrigues fitted only for suburban
back-yards ; to confer degrees ; to hunt for titles
and social distinctions ; and to make money.
The constitution of Sydney University is typi-
cal of its lack of spirit and character. The Senate
(the Upper House, so to speak, of its Parliament)—
a body dominated by a spirit of hard Scotch com-
mercialism—governs the institution without the
slightest reference to Convocation (in a sense the
Lower House of its Parliament). Convocation is
not called together regularly ; when it meets, on
rare occasions, some scores of strangers face one
another, drivel for a while, and separate ; they
do not form a corporate entity ; they have less
homogeneousness than a chance public meeting of
citizens. When the task falls on Convocation to
elect a senator, the vote is taken in. Sydney, and
all country members are practically debarred from
the franchise. Everything is done that can be done
to impress the fact that the university is not a
University, that, after giving its degrees, it wants
to hear and know as little as possible about its
graduates. That is necessary to the reign of the
clique. If the university of Sydney were to be
true to the spirit of university life, it would, in
time, reflect the spirit of New South Wales, not
of the Edinburgh medical sohool and the flunkeys’
parlor of Windsor Castle.
Jt
A conspicuous advertisement of the narrow in-
tolerance of the governing body of Sydney Uni-
versity was shown in this year of jubilee, when its
History professor, Mr, Wood, dared to fulfil one of
the true duties of his position by giving expression
to a conscientious but, at the time, unpopular
opinion on a great problem of national conscience.
He was treated by the dominant faction with
harsh, splenetic rudeness, and would, it is said,
have been summarily dismissed if the Government
of the State had not, at the instigation of the
Labor Party, conveyed a hint as to the unwisdom
of such a step. It was the representatives of the
“horny-handed” who taught Sydney University
to keep its bigoted intolerance of freedom of
thought within such bounds as to prevent the in-
stitution being made openly contemptible in the
eyes of the world. That event of the jubilee year
is not to be marked with a white stone.
J*
All this notwithstanding, Sydney University
need not be set down as hopeless. It is possible
of regeneration. The incident just referred to
showed a healthy under-current of feeling against
the tyrannical bigotry of the reigning Wack-
ford Squeerses among the students: their
championship of free speech was resolute
and generous. Among the teaching staff, too,
are men whose liberality of thought is as
unquestionable as their intellectual attainments.
The institution suffers from bad government, not
from inherent rottenness. With a change of the
system, a breaking-down of clique rule, and time
there is hope. The difficulty is in suggesting
means of reform. The Labor party —though its
interference has on one occasion been useful—is
hardly the fitting body to undertake the task.
And from what other power in politics can action
be expected ?
Adelaide has just now two art exhibitions.
One is the Photographic Society’s annual show
(N.S.W. and Queensland not represented this
year, Victoria being the only visitor). Tricks of
the camera seem to be barred —such as the
astonishing one which last year showed the Ophir
at anchor on the Torrens Lake, just below Parlia-
ment House ! Prizes mostly go to prints that
have been touched up and blurred and made to
look like sepia or other work. The other exhi-
bition is one got up locally by Unley, the subur-
ban district which returns to Parliament the
Premier and the head of the Opposition and the
leader of the Labor Party. It contains an “ auto-
type by Rembrandt ” (so the papers say), but is
lifted above mediocrity only by a wonderful
tapestry, designed by Burne-Jones and worked by
William Morris. This is lent by George Brook-
man, the Kalgoorlie semi-millionaire.
J*
Disraeli, the Oriental gentleman with a vel-
veteen-breeches idea of running an Empire, was,
though the fact is not generally known, a “ poet ”
as well as a novelist and an acute flatterer of
elderly ladies. “G. S., ”in London Daily Chronicle,
revives the memory of “The Revolutionary
Epick, The Work of Disraeli the Younger, author
of ‘ The Psychological Romance.’ ” The poetry is
very poor stuff, tawdry tinselled fustian, not quite
bad enough to be comical. But Disraeli’s preface
emphatically is humorous:
It was on the plains of Troy that I first conceived the
idea of this work. Wandering over that illustrious scene,
surrounded by the tombs of heroes and by the confluence
of poetic streams, my musing thoughts clustered round
the memory of that immortal song, to which all creeds
and countries alike respond, which has vanquished
chance, and defies Time. Deeming myself, perchance too
rashly, in that excited hour, a Poet, 1 cursed the destiny
that had played me in an age that boasted of being anti-
poetical. And while .my Fancy thus struggled with my
Reason, it Hashed across my mind, like the lightning
which was then playing over Ida, that in those great
poems which rise, the pyramids of poetic art, arhid
the falling and the fading' splendor of less crea-
tions, the Poet hath ever embodied the spirit
of his Time. Thus, the most heroic incident of
an heroic age produced in the Iliad an Heroic
Epick ; thus the consolidation of the most superb of
Empires, produced in the .®neid a Political Epick ; the
revival of Learning, and the birth of vernacular Genius,
presented us in the Divine Comedy' with a National
Epick ; dnd the Reformation and its consequences called
from the rapt lyre of Milton a Religious Epick.
And the spirit of my Time, shall it alone be uncele-
brated ?
Standing upon Asia, and gazing upon Europe,, with the
broad Hellespont alone between us, and the shadow of
Night descending on the mountains, these mighty conti-
nents appeared to me, as it were, the Rival Principles-of
Government, that at present contend for the mastery of
the world. “What!” I exclaimed, “is the Revolution
of France a less important event than the siege of Troy ?
Is Napoleon a less interesting character than Achilles ?
For me remains the Revolutionary Epick.”
Me and Homer and Virgil and Milton ! The
preface throws a fresh ray of light on the man
who was' the ancestor in politics of Chamberlain,
in literature of Marie Corelli.
Writers and their Ways.
WHAT a man writes is, of course, the
first thing. How he writes comes
second in the list. It is all very well
to say that we do not care whence the
jewel came as long as the jewel is a real jewel,
and is ours to have and hold. But we do care.
I remember well the time when I could not look
at a picture, or hear an air played, or read a poem
without making for myself a mental portrait of
the author—painter, musician, poet. But, of
oourse, these portraits were suggested by ideal
pictures I had seen in magazines, or elsewhere.
The figures—which, as I know now, had
nothing human in them —had large, deep,
dreamy eyes and long hair, and pale,
chiselled features. It would have been to me
sheer blasphemy in those days to imagine a Fat
Poet. I have seen poets enough since then, and,
God knows, not one of them was fat. I have met
musicians—one or two —who were stout, but I
cannot call to mind a Fat Painter. Australian
Art of any sort does not run to adiposity. I used
»to think that baldness was a sign of the end of
Romance. I know now that it is only the
beginning. What a number of bald headed, grey-
headed, streaky-grey-headed, ginger-and-silver-
headed young fellows I know ! Romeos every
man of them.
* * * *
I met Marcus Clarke once. It was in Ilenning-
ham’s Hotel, in Swanston-street, Melbourne,
opposite the Public Library. Somebody whose
name I have forgotten introduced me, and said
with pompous sarcasm that I was a young aspirant
to literature, and that Marcus had better look
after his laurels. I felt furiously ashamed and
distressed, but Clarke nodded kindly, shook my
hand, and told me that he would say something to
me about Literature later on. I inferred from the
tone of his voice that the information he had
to give me would not be pleasant. He never gave
it. George Walstab was there, and Garnet
Walch' and Grosvenor (“Jack”) Bunster, and,
I think, Bob Whitworth and others. The con-
versation flowed on. I was in Paradise—
a Paradise that smelt of whisky and cigar-smoke,
and echoed with light-hearted laughter. I had
previously read the Vie de Bohenie, and I said to
myself, “ This is Bohemia, indeed.” And it was.
All good Fellows. All good writers. Then, in a
pause of the conversation, while they were order-
ing drinks, or lighting their pipes, 6r something,
Marcus Clarke turned to me and asked me what I
was doing—meaning, I suppose, in that galley. I
replied that I was by trade a correspondence
clerk, but I was then writing for a suburban paper,
and never wanted to be a correspondence clerk
again. Some member of the company, who was
passing out of the room, tapped me on the
shoulder and said r “Don’t give away your silk
purse for a sow’s ear.” I didn’t catch his meaning
at the moment, but all the others laughed. Now
I know why they laughed.
• * V •
Kendall I met once. It was in a newspaper
office. He wanted some money and was offered a
guinea for a poem. It was a wet day and the rain
was streaming over the brim of his tall hat as he
set it upon the table. He was sick, and in trouble,
and his head was not his own. Yet he was ex-
pected to write a charming Australian lyric in his
own charming style about anything he pleased,
carte blanche. I was introduced to him. He
looked at me with deep-set, sorfowful eyes, shook
my hand silently, and bent down over his paper.
No use. The numbers would not flow. He
threw down his pen, and put his hat upon his
head again. The proprietor of the journal came
in, cast a glance upon the paper with a few lines
scrawled upon it, and slapped Kendall upon the
shoulder. “And you call yourself a poet,” he
said; “why, the Dublin Jew” (a rhymer of the
period who has now a flourishing bacon-shop near
the Haymarket) “could do better than that.
Nevermind! Better hick next time ! ” And he
slipped a sovereign and a shilling into Kendall’s
hand. And as lam now telling things that may
possibly be interesting because they are positively
true, I may say that the other party to the trans-
action was Harold Grey.
a * * *
Grey amused me greatly. Light heart, light
head, light conscience, and the lightest hand upon
a pen this country has ever seen. He had no
reverence for anything alive, and he had no more
sense of religion than the bloodhound I used to
keep at Mosmrm’s Bay. When he sat down to
write there would be lemons and chillies —hottest
and reddest of their kind —upon the table. And
he had a dainty way of dipping his pen carelessly
in the ink and writing his verses, or sketches, or
paragraphs, as if he were inscribing them upon
the wings of a butterfly.
There is at work a fairy pen,
Whose tip is wet with magic ink ;
And deep down in the pixies’ glen
A goblin writes on paper pink ;
And flow’rets bloom on every bush,
And fays on leaves pretend to slumber ;
They whisper one another —“ Hush !
He’s writing that new Christmas Number!”
Not good poetry, perhaps, but as Grey himself
used to say—“a d d good imitation of it.”
The Xmas number referred to is an old back
number of Brisbane Figaro, but, in my
memory at any rate, Grey will never be a back
number.
* » * *
To come near to the present. Some years ago I
called upon Edward Dyson. He had a charming
room over a grocery-shop. Carpeted nicely, but
as you walked over the floor you could feel the
hams and the sides of bacon swinging underneath.
Books of verse scattered casually around upon the
table in the centre of the room. On a side-table
near the fire—it was in winter time—his writing
apparatus carefully arranged, pens, ink, and
paper. Edward told lire that he could not com-
fortably write his best imaginative work unless he
were near the realities of life. I borrowed a side
of bacon from him. And when my pigs come to
market I shall not forget Edward Dyson.
* * * *
“Jacs” Bunster, however, was the man after
my own heart. You would ask him where a
certain article was—something of immediate im-
portance to yourself and to himself—and he would
reply vaguely, “In one of those bags ” Used to
keep his manusci’ipt wealth in sacks, like Ali
Baba. And then, if he were, in the humour and
the gout was not troubling him, he would talk of
old times and tell me over again the famous story
of “Anthony Brady, Cock o’ the North,”- He
told it once in print, in some obscure, 'forgotten
journal, but if he would resurrect it—and I am
glad to hear that he himself is still alive—it would
make the finest drama seen upon the stage since
the days of the “Colleen Bawn.” He used to
write anyhow—with any pen, in any ink, on any
paper that came in his way. And he would point
humorously to the sacks and say, with a glitter
of fun in his fine old blue eyes “ Lots of gold in
some of them some day.” I have had sacks of my
own since then, but have never found gold—not
even a gold cup—in any one of them.
* * * *
John Earrell I knew once, and twice, and al-
ways. Now in his later, wider-vested days he is
a distinguished writer upon the staff of the Daily
Telegraph. But when I first knew him—long
before his Pegasus was put into such sordid, use-
ful harness —he told me that he wrote his best
poems when he had one candle for light, and the
upper end of a beer-cask for desk. Eull cask, too.
But then he was a brewer. Never cared for so
much beer around, he said.
* * * *
Mrs. T sent for me one day. I was then
living in Abbotsford, a suburb of Melbourne. I
knew the lady by reading her stories in the Aus-
tralian Journal. Best writer of Australian De-
tective Stories I ever met with. She was sitting
up in bed, and asked me to take a chair. Handed
me a manuscript. I went on reading ; she went
on writing. Prettiest, clearest, most stylish
handwriting I ever saw. Forget what it was all
about now. “What do you think of it?” she
enquired, propping one arm upon her pillow.
“ Very much,” I replied. And meant what I
said. She rose half-mast high in her bed, clothed
in her night-dress. A handsome woman of sixty
or so who had evidently been a beauty in her day.
“ Go and get us a bottle of beer,’ she said, offer-
ing me the money. But I had money enough for
that much. And we drank together very
amicably. Last I saw of Mrs. T . God spare
her days if she is alive.
* * * *
I know little of the methods of composition of
current lady writers. One of them, however, in-
forms me that she writes best after taking her
morning bath. But this is a cruel and almost
impossible Ideal. Another tells me that she
thinks she could do her finest work if she were
floating like a halcyon on the bosom of the deep,
blue, fathomlesss sea. I took her out one day to
Little Coogee where men and women, if properly
attired, may bathe together in Continental
fashion. We were the only people there, with
the exception of a F f at Lady, who made a tidal
wave on the beach when she plumped into the
water. She (my friend) crept into the sea until
it came to her knees, and then fled back with a
four-hands-high wave fiercely pursuing her. Said
she was afraid to wet her hair because it would
take too long to dry. And I was darned near
drowned on that occasion, showing off, but she
never even looked at my performance. She was
writing, while her hair was drying—writing some-
thing about taking the Pacific by its foamy mane
and wringing its white beard.
* * • *
Lawson tells me that he likes best to write in
an atmosphere of quiet. Same with Roderio
Quinn. Paterson writes cateh-as-eatch-can. But
he has the catch—a sort of cavalier swagger and
swing and suggestion of the hard-riding hero who
killed three horses under him, and ate the third,
being short of provisions, and slew several men
upon the road, and then drew up at an inn, gave
his horse some whisky in his corn, wiped the
blood from his sword, kissed the maid of the inn,
ordered a flagon of canary, drank it, and then sat
down to write a rollicking lyric.
* * * •
I had accumulated much material for the pur-
pose of this article. And I have not used a line
of it. It will keep. Before I conclude, however,
let me say that I have never known an Australian
writer—and I have met every man of them worth
his salt —who wrote under the inspiration of
liquor. The Muse lives in many unexpected
places, but the Bottle is not one of them. Re-
spectable people will please take note.
VICTOR J. DALEY.


WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, and CO., Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN
S "X" X> 3ST 3EJ "ST.
M'DOUCALL’S SHEEP DIP
THE ORIGINAL NON-POISONOUS DIP.
M‘DOTTGrA.LL BROS., S Spring Street Sydney.
AGENTS a
Z. L. &M. A. Co., Ltd., Australia and New Zealand : Strachan, Cheedle & Co., Adelaide; J. B. Curran, Hobart.
Kangaroo,
Wallaby,
Rabbit,
Opossum.
SEND ALL SKINS TO
WINGHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
SYDNEY,
The Leading Salesmen . Full Values and Quick Returns.
mm rr Tiiin—n—h —nrirw——i ii' 11 imi—iihiiihhn w i mi iiiiiwii ii n n mi nihiimi—ii—iit—m—■■mmiwiiNMiTriiiirriMiiiniiiMißiNi i
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Charge : 3 Per Cent, to the O-roWera
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge fad. per lb. to the Buyers.
The Photographic Sensation of the Season.
•»&
KODAK..
GLASS
PLATE
CAMERAS.
Write for Illustrated and Descriptive
Leaflet, and mention this Paper.
*}(?
KODAK Limited,
QS4 COIvIvIIVS STREET, Melhottm
ROB ROYpehs
Hinks, Wells & Co. beg to draw attention to this new series of
turned up pointed and other pens, made of the same material, by the
same tools by the same process and at the same works, as the well
known series of Waverley Pens, which Hinks, Wells & Co. have for
30 years and upwards (prior to September 1901), manufactured for
and supplied to the proprietors thereof.
?>V*
Sold by all
Stationers in 18
varieties in
6d., Is. & gross boxes.
HINKS, WELLS & GO., BirminfJHam, England.
Second
Edition.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER
Harry Morant
His ’Ventures’
and Verses.
Price 1/1
Post
Free.
Y By FRANK RBNAR. \f
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney.
Cant B Beat
Briar Root Pipcsi
Gua^ teed
NOT TO
CRACK
OR
BURN,
LATEST*"" MOST
TO DATE SHAPES
PRitf 1/.
Quality not better in a Guinea Pip©.
Should any of our Celebrated C. 8.8. Pipes crack or burn a new one will
be exchanged for it immediately on application.
When Ordering Please Mention Shape of Pipe Required.
£6arai?t€€.
Ordering:,
0.8.8.
c. 8.8.
0.8.8. Pipe, Sterling Silver Mount, 2/6
each.
0.8.8. Pipe, hand-finished, with Ster-
ling Silver Mount, polished Vulcanite
Mouthpiece, in Morocco Leather
Case, 4/- each.
0.8.8. Meerchaum Pipe, guaranteed
genuine, Sterling Silver Screw, Best
Quality Mouthpiece, Morocco Gold-
lined Case, 21/- each.
0.8.8. Pipe, hand-finished, Sterling
Silver Mounted Rim and Band, in
Morocco Gold-lined Leather Case,
8/6 each.
0.8.8. Presentation Companion, con-
taining' two Silver Mounted, hand-
finished Pipes, Superior Quality
Mouthpieces, Red Morocco Gold-
lined Case, 15/6 each.
'C.8.8.
C. 8.8.
CANT- B- BEAT
SAFETY RAZOR.
Particularly Useful
at Sea.
MOMTofBLAdA
SUOWjVG GUAM 1
Shaving
with ordinary-
razors is not
easy for anybody. Ifc
takesmonths, yes, yearsof
practice, and few during
the period escape many
and serious cuts. Even
with experience, despite
care, cuts may be inflicted.
Use the
CAN’T-B-BEAT
SAFETY RAZOR
Shave every morning with
absolute ease, comfort,
and security . . .
PRICE COMPLETE, in Case .. - .. ss. 9d.
In Leather Case, with Extra Blade .. Bs. 9d.
EXTRA BLADES 2s. 3d.
Every Razor Guaranteed and Set ready for use.
TOILET REQUISITES—Lowest Price at . . .
Guv
s*r
HOLLOW
GROUND
Can’t-B-Beat
Razors are manufactured from
the very finest English Razor
Steel, and warranted ground by the most expert
workmen in the world.
Can’t-B-Beat Razor, in case, J-inch .. 4s. 9d.
Can’t-B-Beab Razor, in case, f-inch .. 6s. 3d.
Can’t-B-Beat Razor, in case, §-inch .. ss. 9d.
Can’t-B-Beat Razor, in case, |-inch .. 6s. 3d.
Can’t-B-Beat Razor, with ivory handle.. 108. 6d.
Presentation Case—containing Two
Can’t-B-Beat Razors, ivory handles .. 218.
C. Brown & Sons’ Hair-Clippers, 5s each. Victory
Cream Shaving Soap, 3d tablet. Shaving Brushes,
6d, 9d, Is, 1s 6d, 2s, 2s 6d, Bs, 8s 6d each.
Strops.
“ The Victory,” 2s each. Cant-B-Beat
Razor Strop, recommended by all the
leading hairdressers, 3s 6d each. Satisfaction
guaranteed or money returned.
MICK SIMMONS, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY
2h.p. to 100H.p.
KING marine oil engines.
Launches built 20ft. to 80ft. overall.
VsRMBBaiM
i *
Noiseless Uuderwatef . . »
Exhaust.
Perfect Gas Generator.
Double Cylinder.
Automatic Oil Feed.
Simple Electric Ignition
with Dynamo.
J. F.
Telephone 2671.
WITH THE KING ENGINE— ONE LEVEE CONTROLS THE WHOLE.
3VX c 13 E R M OTT & CO JVC F A.KTY,
37 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Price 6s.
ON OUR SELECTION.
BY
“Steele Rudd.’
MEN! STRENGTH IS GLORIOUS X~m
To men who are weak and debilitated, not only from the effects of a demand upon the vitality, but from excessive
drugging and dosing, from mining the most delicate organs of the body with poisonous chemicals; to men whose faith in
doctors and medicines of all kinds has been destroyed by the failure of every remedy that has been tried—to all men who
are sick of medicines which never cure, we say,
TAKE NO DRUGS ! SHUN QUACKS ! STOP DOSING YOURSELF !
Nature calls for new strength, and you will never be cured until you supply that strength. We have demonstrated
during the past twenty years of successful application of ELECTRICITY for the weaknesses of men that IT, and NOTHING
ELSE, will cure these troubles. It is the only thing on earth that will restore the lost vigor to the nerve Centres and
organs, and you must use it to be cured.
Dr. MCLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT
IS MADE
TO CURE.
Makes vigorous, muscular men of the puniest, weakest specimens of “half men”; it expands and develops every muscle and organ in
the body ;it warms the heart, increases the courage, and gives a man power of mind and body such as any man can be proud of. It makes
the eye bright and the step elastic ; it makes an athlete of a sluggard. It cures disease by restoring strength. It is a quick and lasting
cure for all NERVOUS WEAKNESSES, RHEUMATISM, PATNS in the BACK and HIPS, SCIATICA, LUMBAGO,' CON-
STIPATION, INDIGESTION, VARICOCELE, WEAK KIDNEYS, LOSS OF MEMORY, and all evidences of breaking down. It
cures when all else has failed. Read this Volunteer Testimony :
Blackwood, Victoria.
The De. McLaughlin Co.
It is a little over four weeks now since I started wearing your Electric
Belt, and I have been improving in health ever since. My back is
stronger, and I get through a fair day’s work. Mentally, I am also better.
lam well satisfied with the Belt. My brother is also much better, and is
quite satisfied with the Belt he purchased from you.
Yours very truly,
W. GRIBBLE.
Tub Dr. McLaughlin Co Mooculta Siding:.
Dear Sirs, —Just a few lines to you with thanks. With regard to the
Belt that I purchased from you, I believe it to be one of the best reme-
dies that has yet been made, judging: from the great relief it has given
me. It has done me a great amount of good, considering that I was
badly run-down.
Hoping you will sell thousands more to other sufferers,
I remain, yours sincerely,
WILLIAM THOMPSON.
NOTICE
Don’t fail to write for one of our FREE Illustrated Books, which show practical methods of applying Electricity to any part of
the body ; they are sent post-free to any address. We will make you a FREE WRITTEN diagnosis. NEVER PAY ANYONE
FOR SUCH SERVICES. We srive renowned SPECIALISTS’ ADVICE, and make no charge whatever. Don’t be taken down by the QUACK PRETENCE
of ANALYSING a SAMPLE OF YOUR URINE. It’s only a trap to get part of your money, and then to draw you on.
Mail Facilities.
We have by far the largest mail or home treatment business in, NOT “AUSTRALIA,” but THE WORLD; having
more than twenty large branches, consequently our system is the most perfect, and assures prompt, careful atten-
tion. Requests for our Book are instantly attended to, and the Book leaves by Return Mail. All Diagnosis are written in plain language, and are FREE,
made from your statement ,he day we receive it. Also, our Belts are sent packed, free from observation to all the States. DUTY PAID.
sw
Mi *
u /euj
3KV 1
i
%
7WJW==
mu or twelve months I was in the terrible grip of Sciatica.
The doctors seemed to be unable to help me, and I had made up
my mmd that death would be a blessing. A few applications of
your Belt relieved me, and in a few days drove all the pain
I p™ overjoyed by my good fortune,” writes P. W.
KELLY, Angel Terrace, Coolgardie, VV.A.
Th§_Dr. McLaughlin Co.,
85 King St., Sydney.
Melbourne Office—l67E Swanston Street.


(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
NOW OPEN.
Melbourne C.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
Nov. 4.
To Tattersall,
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name— ——
Address
• i
• •
£
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS (“ TATTERS ALL”) STILL
CONTINUES his business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend
or acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the appli-
cation and securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to clients.
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE
ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing will please
request Bank to advise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PARCEL
DELIVERY CO. doing business with Tasmania.
Melbourne C. Special.
Drawn Morning: of the Race
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To Tattersall,
Please allot me.
shares in the above.
Name.
Address .
£
Melbourne C. Nov. 4.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To Tattersall,
Please allot me
shares in the above.
N ame
Address
£


Cheapest House In A stralla for EDISON
Phonographs #■ Records
“BIJOU,” with 6 Records £1 10 0
EDISON “STANDARD,” with 12 Records .. 610 0
EDISON “HOME,” with 24 Records .. .. 810 0
COMBINATION A 1 “GRAND,” talcing both
Barge and Small Records, with 12 Records, 6
Concert (sin.) Records and Barge Horn ..10 10 0
EDISON RECORDS, English and American,
per dozen 100
CONCERT(Sin.)RECORDS, per dozen.. .. 3 0 0
Send for Splendid New Illustrated Catalogue containing
5000 Selections to choose from. Electric Fans, with
Battery, £5 ; Electric Bike Damps, 21s ; Flash Bights,
Scarf Pin Bights, 10s 6d ; Vapour Bath Cabinets, 20s; &c.,
Free.
eeotas can be posted to any address. Machines care-
fully packed ana o warded to any part of Australasia.
REEVES & CO.,
KING WILLIAM STREET, ADELAIDE.
I'll Try It.'
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Gapillarine
Posted (under cover)
> to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
The Result.
CRAIG &. AITKEN, N.S.W. Barber’s Supply
House. 680-682 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
S
c*3
ac
“ We are old friends, tliis bottle and
I. We have known each other for over
sixty years. When a boy I was always
taking cold, but a few doses of this
medicine would at once set me right.
“ When a young man I had a weak
throat and weak lungs. My friends
feared some lung trouble, but
Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
greatly strengthened my throat, cleared
up my voice, and took away the ten-
dency for every cold to go to my lungs.
“ Last year I had a bad attack of la
grippe. The only medicine I took was
from this bottle, and I came out all
right. I know it’s good, too, for
asthma, bronchitis, pneumonia,croup.”
There are many substitutes and imi-
tations. Beware of theml Be sure
you get Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
Two sizes. Large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S. A.
This New
Fashionable
Mount,
TWO TIPS WITH
OSPREYS,
* In black, white,cream,
or black tipped with
white,
3/-
THE BUNCH.
Post Free.
We make this special offer to
advertise our
Ostrich Tips.
Write To-day. Send Postal Note.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Bourke and Swanston Streets, MELBOURNE.
Mention Tub Bulletin.
CURES
couch ! or
STOES
’CCFUD
USED
PR
omp tuY
balsm*
W»V-L
AND
BEueve
CURE.
STOPS
COLD
foable
lava
Cast
la Nursery- 1 COUCH
9W.
,1/0.
216.
m
&
■jt» v
Those
suffering
from weah
and sore eyes,
and blight, should
SINGLETON’S OINTMENT
Never Fails. Restores Eyelashes.
AU CHEMISTS.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33J- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTGASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (oombined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand,
J\~±. Lowest Current Hates of Interest.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per cent,
of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors— Thomas Littlejohn, Esq., Chairman; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
Esq. ; Senator J. T. Walker; J. Abbott, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ; F E.Winchcombe, Esq., M.P.
General Manager and Actuary— Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
£ nwvuesv.
Commercial
Buggy,
' £l4 10s-
H. Hillier,
180 Sussex-sb.,
SYDNEY.
/t3T Send for a
Catalogue.
Bent Shaft Sulkies,
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buj'ers of Light Vehicles.
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLiER, i3o Sussex St., Sydney
Straight Shaft 3-Spring Sulkies, £8 IDs.
Sarven Sulky Wheels Tyred, £2 4s 6d pair.
Discount to Wholesale Buyers. Send for Catalogue.
PLAYER’S
WORLD
FAMED
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
Wi
§
WHOLESALE
Distributing; Agents
New South Wales—
M. RUTTY & CO.,
SYDNEY.
, Victoria —
| d. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia —
Hart, Lawrenoe.& Co.
Propy. Ld., Adelaide
Western Australia —
Lionel Samson & Son,
Fremantle
Queensland—
Thoe. Brown & Sons, Ld.
Brisbane
Burn*, Philp & 00. Ld.,
? Townsville
Tasmania —
Watchorn Bros.,
Hobart
dohn McKenzie A 00..
Launceston
New Zealand—
D. Benjamin & 00.
Dunedin, Wellington
and Christohuroh.
Most makes of .22 caliber cartridges are as variable as some
men’s watches. Cartridges out of the same box won’t
shoot alike. Some go high, some go low and some don’t
go at all. This is not true of
WINCHESTER
.22 Short and .22 Long Cartridges.
They shoot well all the time, and shoot just where you hold.
Special powder made according to carefully determined and
tested formulas is used in loading Winchester Cartridges
and every bullet is swaged by special machinery which
makes them uniform in size, weight and density. This
modern method of manufacture coupled with a rigid sys-
tem of tests makes Winchester Cartridges better than any
other brand on the market. A trial will convince you.
WE .... WINCH R.STFP GOODS.
M‘LEAN BROS. & RIGG, Ltd.
ELIZABETH ST., fIELBOURNE ; GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
The Australian Commission Agency Co.
IS IN CONSTANT COMMUNICATION WITH
“TATTERSALL,” care of GEO. ADAMS, HOBART.
Write or call. When writing enclose
Addressed Envelope and Stamp.
Offices: 101 Swanston St„ flelbourne.
The
High-Class Smoking Mixture
Vf A —" - aJ9
4
HAS NO EQUAL IN QUALITY.
MILD. medium:.
In Jlb. or £lb. AIR-TIGHT TINS.
FULL.
DR. J. A. AUSTIN writes : “ After a long and fruitless quest for an ideal smoking mixture, I have at
last alighted on the famous ‘ ARDATH,’ which is perfectly free from the crudeness and asperities of inferior
tobacco so injurious to the heart and nerves, and renders smoking a harmless luxury.”
If unobtainable at local Tobacconists, write to
S. HOFFNUNG & CO., Merchants, Pitt=st., Sydney.
Sole Manufacturers: ARDATH TOBACCO CO., 44 Worship Street, London, England.
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My Home.
I weary of the city, I sicken of the street,
My heart is filled with pity for the ones that there
I meet;
For have they in the morning ever heard the
bush-birds sing?
Or on the ridgy ranges heard the steel-shod horse-
hoofs ring ?
Have they ever, on the pine-tops, watched the
sun’s departing rays,
Or marked the rolling current of the bush-fire’s
lurid blaze ?
No! With dissipation’s measures drowning dissi-
pation’s strife —
Hunt ye down your fevered pleasures—shuffle fast
the cards of life !
Would I give my free existence for your petty
gain and loss ?
Would I rather God than devil ? Would I barter
crown for cross ?
Would Away the thought! My steps turn
where my heart’s flag is unfurled.
Better be the friend of Nature than be King of all
the World !
Some love the barren moorland and the bleak and
wintry sky,
And some love the craggy shoreland, and will love
it till they die.
There are some that love the farm-house, there are
some that ever pine
For old Ocean’s restless tossing—for the foaming,
seething brine;
It is ever what you’re bred to. And no matter
where I roam
My heart is in the bushland—for the bushland is
my home.
BRISBANE.
NADA.
The Tomboy.
She had a saucy word for you,
She had a dimpled smile;
She’d ride the thickest timber thro’
In quite bewitching style.
She had no thought of danger when
The chase was wild and hot—
The admiration of the men—
The careless tomboy, Tot.
She milked the cows and stooked the hay,
She worked among the trees;
She’d tackle h •, and lightly say:
>( ’Twas just like shelling peas ! ”
She danced divinely, Heaven knows;
Her cooking beat the lot;
She “scooped ” the prizes at the shows,
Did little fair-haired Tot.
There came a day—we say it low—
When Death was hovering near ;
Her life was past its evening glow,
The sky was grey and drear.
But in her eyes was mischief yet—
Brown eyes of fairy Tot—
She answered : “ Either way I’ll bet—
That Tomboy dies, or not! ”
VIC.
WILL JARRATT.
The Farting.
Fare ye well ! my laughing Southland, and your
rolling hills of green,
(0 the glory of your morning, wrapt in Summer’s
silver sheen,
And your gleaming dews of Winter, and your
biting breath that chills
When the morning mists are lifting and the go’d
is on the hills.)
Fare ye well! my laughing Southland (0 your
sleepy land of dreams !
0 your glens of fern and frondage, and your spark-
ling mountain-streams.)
And your river fondly droning (0 its bosom lit
with stars)
To the range and rolling ridges as it tumbles o’er
the bars.
Fare ye well! my laughing Southland, and those
dreamy dells of mine—
Ah ! in fairy-fashioned frondage still I see the
creepers twine,
Still I hear the songs of Nature when the drooping
leaves are stirred—
Now the music of the river, now the piping of a
bird.
Fare ye well! my laughing Southland, and old
lovers, false and true,
(0 those rosy sunlit faces, and those laughing eyes
of blue!
0 the rides we twain have taken in the dawning,
dusk, and day !
0 the pleasures of bush dances half a score of miles
away !)
Fare ye well! my laughing Southland, and my
t haunting “might have been,”
(0 my Mother and my Mistress! omy Lover
and my Queen !)
Fare ye well! my sun-kissed Southland, and my
people there who dwell,
0 my nver and my ranges—all—a wanderer’s
farewell!
N.B.W.
GILROONEY.


A BEAUTIFUL FABRIC
t:ie
Velveteen.
NOTE WELL !—Each Yard of Genuine “ LOUIS ” Velveteen
bears the name (spelled L"0“U“l“S and in no other
way) and is stamped with a guarantee of wear.
THE
‘PLUM’
P[B
THE
* PLUM’
ENTLEMEN. —This razor is superior to any other. It Is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
VX like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact Kind ot
edge that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testily to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. Sd.
“RAZOLES” LICHTNINC RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Prick
/ Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21a
\ Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 308.
Registered and sent Post Free to ant part of the World.
J2F” Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney
HENNESSrS
THREE STAR
BRANDT
Beware of
Cheap
Grain Spirits >
Flavored
and
Colored
to
Imitate
Cognac
Brandy.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
s
m
•w
*5-
\'4
m
m
&
a*
-
as
CAPILLA
HAIR
The Wonder of the Age
ALL CHEMISTS
THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALASIA.
Skins Soft&White.
BY USING
issM
t- L .<
jjri
<?mV2
Healthy
Complexions Preserved.!
Intelligence
From Abroad
We are in receipt of advices from Europe to the effect that a
large quantity of Ruberoid Roofing was used in the extensive
.additions recently made to the Imperial Palace at Vienna, Austria.
ROOFING
ROOFING
QUERY
If P&B Ituheroid Hoofing is good enough for the Emperor of Austria and his
household to live under, it should mean a lot to you. Besides, it’s cheaper than Iron.
E. RICH &
O’CONNELL STREET,
SYDNEY
BRISBANE


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 23.—N0. 1183.
SATURDAY. OCTOBER 18, 1902.
Price 6d.
TMe — A Petition
To The Leg- Assembly by I^\ k J
Cohen on behalf of T\ev janes A
Nouan.as from THt weiTeRN
Suburbs lAinisterjal Ass?
PBOTFSTINQ AGAINST THfc passing
of a measure to legalise The
Tots. inasmuch as in the opinion
OF PETITIONERS IT WOULD result IN
A LARGS INCREASE OF
/ • A Y_. CanxbuhG
Barton
is tie/\vn_Y
LADers*
THfc PLAiJe
and bag
A Ul iancg
CoHfcN-: |A LL
OF GAM^L-INc!,
AIN ABoniMATION It'S
THt of us V/titeyams,
f*\ S THIS IS A
-FSTITtON AC AIN S'"
THfe !
pRtSIDeiNT C,AR6Y
C9, MAN/ £
l-\w&sei> THfc Bus
AG Airs
F ATTAIN —
TWO' n€-AD6D
H \<YABRAMAPOOT Ra»«
Twe tonic iNfLueNCfc
of The V'Ctori/vm exM^PLe,
T't-VW LeACrUfe is
upon exTerssive
'PREPARATIONS for
eNfcßoeTtc CAr-ipAic^/L.
SOME POLITICAL MATTERS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
'* Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS AFTER
Ist NOVEMBER, 1902
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £l6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
NOTICK
By sending direct to Trip, Bulletin Oflice Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have Tin? Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 3000 ivords, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in JilaoJe and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tub Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa— Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown ;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal; Solomon
and Wilson, 22 Hout St., Capetown ; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban ; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
Ceylon.— Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver.- Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
B.C.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 22 Queens Road, Hong
Kong.
China.— Brewer and Co., 31 Wanking Road, Shanghai.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 18, 1902.
The Maoriland Political Aspect.
In the course of the last dozen years Maori-
land has got into a fixed habit of returning
its present Government to office by a large
majority, and force of habit will carry the
Government through the election that is now
pending. There is no Opposition worth
speaking of; no Opposition leader worth
mentioning; no Opposition policy worth
calling such. The men who used to be the
Opposition—sueh of them as still stay drearily
on the stage and totter in a senile fashion
before the footlights—are mostly very old.
They have been out of power for a dozen
years. They have hardly, in all that period,
carried even a snatch-division on a question
about a culvert on a back-country road.
They could hardly remember how to draft a
Bill now, and they have forgotten what
success looks like. Also, they have only
the dimmest possible recollection as to
what their own political principles are—
it being so long since they had any
use for their political principles. The very
backest kind of back-number party in the
politics of any other State is young and fresh
compared to the Maoriland Opposition. But
a new Opposition is growing up. It pro-
bably won't be very apparent at the present
election, but all the same there is a rift in
the lute, and the lute is by no means the
instrument it was.
* * * *
A dozen years ago there were practically
no small farmers in Maoriland. Before the
time of Premier Ballance the big arrogant
squatters, and the three banks, and the
large pastoral companies ruled the roost.
Ballance and Seddon created the great
mass of small independent agriculturists.
They threw open State lands on easy terms;
broke up big estates by the graduated
land-tax ; bought more big estates and cut
them up ; helped along the farmer by cheap
loans from the State Land bank; and created
an agricultural revolution. The politi-
cians who represented the once dominant
uarty of the big squatters became a scorned
and despised remnant in Parliament, and of
the old Continuous Government there was
hardly enough left to raise an argument. At
first the new agricultural element created by
BallAnce and Seddon was humble and
democratic. It hadn’t a copper of its own.
It owed the Government for its land. It
hadn’t got its fences up, and its hut was only
half-built. It had a weedy horse and two
cows, one of them dry ; and it toiled from
dawn to dark, and was glad to get Govern-
ment employment at railway construction in
slack times. It was quite willing to regard
the town artisan as a brother and an equal,
and in town and country the democratic party
was solid. These were the palmy days of
the Ballance-Seddon Government, before
Jeshurun waxed fat and kicked.
* * * *
But the miserable little cockie, whom the
Ballance and Seddon Governments took
from being the squatter’s serf and made an
independent farmer, became prosperous and
arrogant. As he .got his mortgage paid off
he began to feel just like the old, lofty
squatter, though on a rather smaller scale.
So far, only the earlier members of the new
class have fairly emerged from the prelimi-
nary stage of debt and humility; but more
and more of them are emerging every year.
This new class looks down on the town
artisan, its one-time brother and fellow-
democrat, from a great elevation. It wants
cheap labor, though it is barely 10 years
since it was a laborer itself. It has doubts
as to whether the “lower classes ” can be
trusted with the suffrage, and it is strongly
opposed to socialistic legislation—though, but
for the socialistic legislation which provided
it with cheap land and cheap money and all
manner of State assistance, it would still be
pursuing the cow of its old squatter boss for
15s. a week and inferior board and lodging.
It begins to have ideas, now, about
trade, and some of the members of the
Farmers’ Union say quite frankly that
Protection should be abolished, so as to
destroy a whole lot of the town industries,
and shut up the factories, and throw a large
number of people out of employment, and
then these people would get into a proper
state of humility, and be glad to come out
and work for the farmer at very little per
week, as they ought to do. In the course
of ten years, a very large number of the
liard-up laborers whom the Ballance-
Seddon policy turned into independent
farmer-proprietors have quite altered their
point of view, and begin to be seriously
shocked at the arrogance of the ‘ ‘ working
classes ” in wanting good wages.
* * * *
So political parties in Maoriland stand
thus : There is, first, the remnant of the old
Tory party—a few very old mental dodderers
of little account. Then there is the great
overwhelming Seddon party which is be-
ginning to decay internally. It consists, to
begin with, of the arrogant and affluent
section of the new farming class which,
having paid off its mortgage and ceased to
shovel manure personally, begins to regard
itself as a squirearchy. This is the body
which wants to abolish Protection so as to
kill city industries and supply cheap labor ;
it begins to talk of the rights of property
and to be shocked at the attitude of the
“ lower orders,” and to have doubts about
the wisdom of “socialistic legislation,”
but it still follows its old leaders—more
through force of habit than for any
other reason. Then there are the newer
agriculturists, whose mortgages to the
State are not paid off yet—who are still
more cockie than squire, and who haven’t
attained to the lordly arrogance of the real
Farmers’ Unionists, but who are progressing
that way. Next there is the main strength
and reliance of the Democratic Ministry—
the manufacturing population. Under its
splendid system of Protection and socialistic
legislation Maoriland has acquired a body of
manufacturing operatives which, in propor-
tion to its population, is nearly twice as
large as the manufacturing community in
backward New South Wales, and which
beats even Victoria badly ; and this section
of the people is the mainstay of the Seddon
Government—or at least it was till the
Seddon Government began to fall away from
its own ideals. And, finally, there are
signs of a new party growing up, a party
which regards Seddon as slow and anti-
■ quated, which loathes Seddon’s lieutenant,
Joseph Ward—he of the oily tongue and
the Colonial Bank ; which has ideas
about the nationalisation of all in-
dustries, and which objects to being found
dead in the same paddock with the
Farmers’ Union. It is a great party which
will follow Seddon and co. at the coming
election, but it is also a tumultuous party,
and a house that is beginning to be divided
against itself. If the necessary leaders pre-
sented themselves it might split into three
parties almost any day.
* * * *
The Government has changed just as the
party has „done. Ballance is gone ;
M‘Kenzie is gone; Reeves is gone;
Seddon has become an insane Jingo ; and
Joseph Ward has turned traitor—if he
wasn’t one all along. Seddon, since the
Boer war commenced, has forgotten almost
everything except his ridiculous thirst for
bloodshed, and for months he has been
drifting about England, making himself the
butt of a wearied empire by his diatribes
against the Afrikanders, by airing impossible
plans of Imperial Federation, lecturing the
King at public banquets about his error in
being civil to the Boer generals, and offering
advice to the world in general. And while
Seddon has been a contemned posturer and
Imperial bore in England Joseph Ward has
been running the Government on disastrous
lines at Wellington. By nature a financier,
company-promoter, jobber, trader and dealer
in “cats,” Ward has dropped his ill-fitting
democratic mantle, or at best only wears the
tail of it on high days and holidays. He has
gone on the simple policy of making friends
of the mammon of unrighteousness by re-
ducing taxation, spending borrowed money
lavishly to fill the gap, booming on the mad
M‘Millan and Parkes and Duncan Gillies
and Julius Vogel lines, dropping all serious
attempt at progressive legislation, and earning
the dangerous friendship and approval of the
Tory press.
* * * *
If Seddon fails to come back in time, or if
he comes back still in the state of idiotic
blood-drunkenness into which he has lately
degenerated, and with his thoughts still
concentrated on the alleged necessity for
hanging De Wet, the coming election will
be a curious affair. An overwhelmingly
strong Democratic party—overwhelming so
far as mere numbers are concerned —with
two distinct secessions apparently preparing
in its ranks, will go to the poll with no very
distinct programme, but rather on the
strength of its past reputation. It will go to
the poll as the anti-borrowing party which
is piling up debt more recklessly than it was
ever piled up in Maoriland before. It will
have, as its deputy-leader, a man who has no
sympathy with it whatever, except the
sympathy which enables him to keep his
billet, and who receives the cordial blessing
and approval of its enemies. All these
things make up a curious complication.
While Maoriland continues on the flood-tide
of prosperity, and while no dangerous rival
leader turns up, the great, though now badly-
cracked Seddon party may hold together for
a long time, even with all these drawbacks,
but the two years in which Seddon has been
howling for blood, to the serious neglect of
things that were less gory but more im-
portant, have made sad havoc with the
stability of his throne.
The First Federal Session.
The Federal Parliament closed its first session
after 17 months of toil. It put up an exceed-
ingly good record in that time, as Australian
Parliamentary records go, though it is a pity that
any qualifying clause has to be inserted. Even
its bitterest enemies and most unscrupulous jour-
nalistic slanderers, when they sum up the work
accomplished, can find only seven measures post-
poned against 37 passed. Compared with the
pitiable paralysis of some of the State Legislatures
(and the Commonwealth leaders had to do their
work by the aid of a Parliament whose members
had mostly grown up in that atmosphere of
paralysis) the results shown are remarkably good.
They would probably have been better but
for the dull, senseless, malignant stonewalling
of the crowd which represents British and Ger-
man and Yankee manufacturing interests in
the House of Representatives—the M ‘Millan
and Pumpkin Smith push, that blocked business
through long days of repetition and weary nights
of absolute uselessness. What work the Federal
Parliament did must be judged, to some extent,
by the material it had to do the work with. The
largest consignment of that material came from
the N.S.W. Legislature, which thinks for 45 years
about a Local Government Bill, and for 40 years
about building a mile of city railway, and for 35
years or more about a North Shore bridge, and
which has been 16 years reducing the deficit with-
out reducing it at all; and it is difficult to keep that
kind of material in motion. As for the Dobson
element, and the Victorian Upper House element
(imported into Federal politics largely because of
David Syme’s private friendships), motion of any
kind is quite foreign to their habit of mind.
* * * »
The Federal Government was also hampered by
the weakness, incapacity, laziness, and constant
absence of Premier Barton, the weakness and
woodenness of Minister Bill Lyne, and the over-
anxiety of Acting-Premier Deakin to please every-
body. New South Wales supplied a larger con-
tingent of Ministers than its population entitled
it to, and its contingent, barring the brilliant
O’Connor, was a deadly failure. Then, in addi-
tion to other things, the Ministry had to meet
all the preliminary difficulties that arise when
a multitude of strange monkeys are put into
one cage, and told to become acquainted,
and shake down comfortably, and not drag
at each other’s tails. The Reid and MAI ill an
party was fully as responsible as the Government
for any flaws in the Constitution, but being in
Opposition it was able to treat those flaws, when
they came to light, as the Government’s special
iniquities, and to make capital out of them. And
the grinding of many discordant axes made con-
stant trouble. The White Australia policy aroused
the intense malignity of the corrupt nigger-
driving party in Queensland; and that party’s lying
power, and its capacity for button-holing silly but
influential preachers, and attracting them to its
side by food and flattery, proved to be something
extraordinary. The proposal to prevent wealthy
newspaper proprietors cadging further on the
community for gratis postage roused a swarm of
open or secret enemies. The splendidly liberal
and democratic Federal franchise made more
enemies—not among the people, but among
newspapers which misrepresent the people. And
the policy of aiding and encouraging Australian
industries aroused the frenzy of the influential
gang which acts as agents and buttoners here for
British, German, American, and other manufac-
turers — the anti - Australian M‘Millan gang,
which loathes Australian industries that threaten
to make the importer superfluous ; and to reduce
the enormous profits which the rich absentee
importing boss makes out of Australia and spends
in London. And the refusal of the Government
to allow importers who attempted to defraud the
revenue to escape by backstairs influences caused
great indignation. By the end of the first Federal
session there was hardly one wealthy lie, fraud,
swindle, or hypocrisy in Australia of which the
Commonwealth Government hadn’t made an
enemy.
* * * *
It had also to contend, in some measure, with
the hostility of State politicians. When the
Commonwealth was established it was stated,
quite truly, that it would supply the chance for
great economies in administration. When the
States were relieved of their largest responsibili-
ties there was a splendid opportunity to cut down
the number of State Ministers and politicians, to
sack the separate Agents-General, and to reduce
the State Governors to the level of corresponding
Canadian officials, who receive about £lOOO a year
and are kept for purely business purposes. Ine
State Governments, being loth to part with the
jobs and the pomp and the patronage, and being
afflicted with that public paralysis which keeps
almost everything save borrowing at a standstill,
availed themselves of hardly any of these oppor-
tunities. Therefore the cost of running the
Federal Legislature became an extra, and among
State politicians there grew up a habit of speaking
severely about the expense of Federal administra-
tion—they had to say something like that to cover
up and disguise the fact that the extravagance and
corruption of State administration were really at
fault.
* * * *
With all its failings and weaknesses, which are
many, the Federal Government, judged on its
record so far as it has gone, is worth all the six
State Governments put together, and more. The
beginning of every Federation has been marked
by an almost immediate counter-agitation among
a few loud-mouthed malcontents who professed to
represent a secessionist reaction, and the begin-
nings of Australian unity are no exception to the
rule. But the miserably inferior stamp of the
politicians who represent the alleged reaction is in
itself a proof of its bogus character; it is only a
tenth-rate movement that has to be content
with tenth-rate leaders. Speaking for itself, The
Bulletin only knows one man who voted for
Federation and has since perverted tosecessionism.
It knows any number of men who voted for
Federation and who say emphatically that they
would vote for it again, but who have a sorrowful
impression, based on the statements of that section
of the press which has been parochial all along,
that someone else has gone back on the policy of
union, and that, if the question were again put to
the people, the wholesale defection of someone
else would leave the Federal party in a minority.
The fact that that alleged, but unfindable, some-
one else only lives in the imagination of the
parochial and Tory and nigger-labor press, and in
the minds of a party which wants to suppress
Australian industry in the interests of foreign
manufacturers, is not so generally understood as
it should be.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Men to Build the State.
“It is all very well to say, as some people do, that a
democracy prefers to be governed by ignorance. It does
not prefer to be governed by ignorance any more than
does anyone else. It desires to be led by its best men.
We are a democracy here if ever there was a democracy,
in the world, and we are likelj' to be one. Let the leaders
be the best men. Although there have been many dis-
tinguished men on the rolls of this University there are
not so many now in public life as I should like to see.
Many have gone to the south, some to the north. You
have supplied three Judges to Queensland, a Premier to
Australia, but in the number of members of the Legisla-
ture graduates of the University are fewer than I should
wish."—Chief Justice Griffith, at the Sydney University
Shivoo.
0 People of this large
Lone Land, where all is new,
Take care who has the charge
Of making laws for you !
God only knows the harm the ignorant can do.
Let them be men of sense,
The Coves who legislate;
Chaste in their eloquence,
Classic, but not ornate;
These are the men to build the Temple of the
State:
Good men who can with ease
Talk Greek till all is blue,
And quote Demosthenes
With Attic accent true —
They are the men you want; they are the Blokes
for you.
Unhappy is the land—
Though prosperous in show,
It never can be grand—
Whose legislators know
Nothing about the grace and charm of Cicero.
Sad, sad, it is to see
Men Premiers become
Who would, if duty-free,
Prefer low beer, or rum,
To the Pierian spring or sweet Elysium.
The sordid things of life
They know, with wisdom mean ;
Each, like a kitchen-knife,
Is rudely, coarsely keen,
Untempered in the fine old crystal Hippocrene.
The Present bounds their ken ;
Its squalid feast they spread;
They do not mind that men
Live not alone by bread,
Nor know that wisdom lives in languages long
dead.
No Alma Mater dear,
No Academic Home,
Nursed them at breasts austere,
And taught each oaf and gnome
“ The glory that was Greece, the grandeur that
was Rome.”
O, People of this land
Choose men for you to speak
Within your Council grand,
Well-versed in lore antique,
High-cultured gentlemen, who understand theii
Greek.
Then you shall see an age
Of glory and renown ;
And Sydney, we engage,
Shall be the Muses’ town —
The Southern City fair, of the White Violet Crown.
Then Learning will wax fat,
And Science bear the bell,
And Labor doff his hat
And graft for them like h—• —l;
The Golden Age will coftie, and all things shall
be well.
CREEVE ROE.


The Inebriates Act in N.S.W.
N. S. Wales Parliament recently, in a spasm of
common sense, passed an Act giving the State,
and, under proper supervision, private individuals,
power to deal with habitual inebriates in a scien-
tific way. Before the passage of the Act, the law-
in N.S.W., as in most other countries, only took
cognisance of the drunkard when he or she
became a public nuisance ; then it fined him
or her ss. or more. The Inebriates Act
authorised a more rational way of dealing
with the habitual drunkard who has become
a public nuisance segregation in a hospital
for two or three years, until the alcoholic craving
should be cured by treatment and the flight of time.
Also a way was opened for dealing humanely and
sensibly with the vast numbers of drunkards who
do not sink to the level of the common public
nuisance, and who do not enjoy even the
limited remedial influences of being arrested
and fined ss. A very well-conceived Act
was this piece of legislation, calculated to
reduce the gaol population enormously and
to repair and refit many _ shattered lives.
And the Act being so good in its purpose and so
wise in its plan, one might have calculated witii
certainty that something would go wrong and
prevent it from becoming a living power of
regeneration. Something did go wrong. The
State Government having passed the Act, the
Supreme Court was asked to draw up regulations
governing its application. These regulations,
designed by a bench of Judges with evidently no
medical knowledge, and with just as little com-
mon-sense—men who, on this occasion at least,
were hide-bound by precedent and blinded
by the dust of mouldy custom made _ it
impossible that the Act should have any applica-
tion in regard to the private drunkard —the man
with an alcoholic mania which is ruinous to him-
self and his family, but which stops short of the
police court stage of notoriety. To legally con-
vict a man of habitual alcoholism and subject him
to restraint was made as difficult as to legally con-
vict him of envy or pride or uncharitableness.
The State Government might have insisted on these
absurd rules of theSupremeCourt being abrogated,
and have had a fresh code drawn up by more com-
petent people. But it didn’t. The Aot was
simply dropped. No effort even was made to es-
tablish any institution for the cure of inebriates.
The See Goversment is a very “progressive”
Government, but it is only progressive when there
is a brass-band accompaniment, and a show of
bunting, and a loan in the offing. To save the
country and the family the hideous loss which is
yearly caused through inebriety, by a little dili-
gence in enforcing an excellent law, is quite out
of its line, for the saved drunkard can hardly be
made the subject of a brass-band glorification or
a banquet, and he can’t be offered as security for
a loan, nor can he be “opened ” by the Governor
as if he were a new railway. The Inebriates Act
havingbeen passed, one sincere politician, by the ex-
ercise of a little pushfulness, could probably shame
the Government into having it administered. But
Abraham might look as vainly for that one as for
ten honest men in the Cities of the Plain.
Glory to Minister Lyne.
The Bulletin has learned never to pin its faith to
a politician—until he has been dead ten years and
all his correspondence has been published post-
humously. Still politicians, it must be admitted
and should be admitted, do good things some-
times, from good, bad, and indifferent motives as
the case may be. W. J. Lyne has been doing well
as Acting-Minister for Federal Defence, and his
good work claims recognition. It will be some-
thing of a calamity if Mr. John Forrest is
allowed now to take over control of the Defence
Department and upset the course of treatment
which his locum tenens has been following for
the reduction of military fever. Mr. Bill Lyne
has his patient’s pulse and temperature almost
normal, and General Hutton gnashes impotent
teeth as he sees drifting away the last relies of his
scheme to make Australia a recruiting-ground for
the English War Office. But it is a well-known
fact that he hopes for something of a reversal of
the present Defence policy when Mr. John
Forrest resumes control, and, with Parliament
out of session, is left free to indulge the Imperial-
istic notions he got as boss official of a Crown con-
vict colony. If Mr. Barton and his colleagues
are wise they will take all sorts of care that General
Hutton is disappointed, and that the Bill Lyne
Defence policy is strictly adhered to. During his-
term of office as Minister for Defence the Home-
Secretary has definitely told General Hutton
that Australia will countenance no proceedings
which would put her soldiers under any outside
authority ; and that, whilst it might be General
Hutton’s idea to consider the Imperial War
Office first and Australia second, it was not his.
That is the attitude which Parliament approves
and the people approve. It should be main-
tained, even if, for that purpose, a rearrangement
of portfolios is necessary.
«.
The Financial Pot and the Monetary
Kettle.
The recent great Parliamentary row between Pot
Waddell and Kettle Carruthers over the
N.S.W. finances was interesting in itself, and also
interesting for reasons with which neither the Pot
nor the Kettle had much to do. The facts that
were stated by these two disreputable cooking
utensils were already well understood by every-
body who really knows anything about the shock-
ing cash-box of N.S.W. So were some facts which
neither cooking utensil thought it safe or advisable
to mention. Last financial year the Pot closed
his accounts with what he said was a deficit of
£84,000 —this after being relieved by the Federal
Government of many of the burdens which
the N.S.W. State Treasurer used to have
to carry, and after spending the biggest
revenue that a N.S.W. State Treasurer ever
spent. But, in addition, he postponed payment
of £lOO,OOO due to certain sinking funds; he
used £200,000 or more of what were really trust
funds as revenue, and he left some £84,000- of
accounts unpaid and unprovided for. All these
things the Pot did, and dhe remarks that the
Kettle made about them were justly severe ; the
Pot’s real deficit, as the Kettle had no difficulty
in showing, being about £500,000 on these items
alone. In addition to all this he used about
£1,000,000 of loan money for purely revenue
purposes, hut the Kettle, having been Treasurer
in the shamefully dishonest Reid Government,
which worked this same political swindle for
all it was worth, made but small allusion
to this. Also the Pot failed to charge himself in
the accounts to 30th June, 1902, with interest
due, and in part actually paid, on the public debt,
but as it was the awful Government to which the
Kettle belonged that invented this fraud, it was
impossible to say much about it either. The
real N.S.W. deficit for last financial year was
more than £1,500,000, but the Kettle could only
speak indignantly to the Pot about one-third of
it, for the other two-thirds represented his own
brand of political fraud and swindle. The
disreputable banging of the two cheap and nasty
cooking utensils, however, roused up Labor mem-
ber Edden to denounce the talk of retrenchment
as a Tory device, the real aim of which was
to drive the Labor party out of politics. These
were not his exact words, but the meaning is all
there. Such statements, when the Labor party
lets them pass uncontradicted, are paving the way
for the worst kind of disaster. Retrenchment and
more taxation will be a necessity very soon. The
time is not far off when a retrenchment party will
be able to sweep the polls in N.S.W., and to
shove both the Pot and the Kettle aside as dead
and gone ironmongery. And if the Labor pafty
is not that party, then the Tory party will be that
party instead. The time will come before long
when N.S.W. will want economy and Labor poli-
tics or economy and Tory politics, but it will
want economy in any case. Labor member Edden
is reported to have described the wranglings of
the Pot and the Kettle as merely calculated to
injure the State’s credit; but, considering all the
circumstances, the State’s credit is past being
saved, if the present methods continue, by any
hush-it-up processes. The local disturbances of
the Pot and the Kettle are not heard in London,
but the borrowing of £7,000,000 inside 12 months
is beard there, and it speaks louder than words.
If the Labor Party would come to the front now,
as the party which was ready to abjure equally the
Waddell fake, and the Carruthers fake, and
the See fake, and the Reid-Parkks-M‘Millan
fake, and to reach out for the privilege of govern-
ing N.S.W. itself on an absolutely honest and
solvent basis, it might have a great future before
it. But it can’t hope to do any permanent good
by lending itself either to Pot politics or Kettle
politics. Both these leaky vessels have kept
themselves boiling on it too long.
♦
That Alleged Naval Agreement.
Premier Barton comes back to explain how he
fell in over the new Naval Tribute agreement,
and it will be found, if there is any truth in current
report, that he has fallen in more badly than was
generally supposed. Certainly his promises,
whatever they are, bind neither Parliament nor
Commonwealth to anything; but if it is really
true that Premier Barton has pledged the
Government to stand by the alleged agreement,
then the Government will either have to repudiate
its nominal head, or go out of office. The com-
mon statement is that Canada (population over
5,000,000) is to pay nothing; Natal, £35,000 a year;
Cape Colony, £5O, OOOayear; Maoriland (population
770,000), £40,000 ayear; the Commonwealth (popu-
lation 3,800,000), £200,000 a year. Compared
with the other contributing States, Australia is
not badly taken down; compared to Canada, it
has distinctly fallen among thieves. But the
point on which Premier Barton must almost cer-
tainly either abandon the whole business or aban-
don his billet is this: Under the old agreement
Australia paid £105,000 a year for the services of
a small and inefficient fleet, over which it had no
control, but it was at least a part of the agree-
ment that, in time of war, the-fleet, such as it
was, would be somewhere in South Pacific waters,
so that it might meet, and possibly sink, any
enemy that attempted to attack Australia. Under
the new agreement, Australia is to pay
£200,000, and the promise that the fleet
will stay here or hereabouts for the defence
of Australia in war time, is wholly withdrawn.
Australia is to pay for defence, with a specific
assurance that there may be no defence at all
when it is needed, and that any enemy may bom-
bard us with impunity. If'the agreement proves
to be anything like the reports concerning it, all
the refreshments that the British Government
could have offered to Barton won’t compensate
for the outrageous badness of the bargain. Fur-
ther, it has been stated, unofficially yet very
openly and significantly, that any idea of Aus-
tralia creating a fleet of its own must be severely
discouraged. This is a broad and conspicuous
hint that Australia can’t be trusted ; or that the
marine glory of the empire, with the pomp, dignity,
salary, and brass buttons attached thereto, are not
for common people like the Australians, but for the
superior Briton only; and that Australia must
be compelled to rely on Britain for defence —and
be reminded unpleasantly at intervals that it
doesn’t defend itself but hides behind the skirts of
its venerable parent. The theory that the
empire’s great weapon of offence must be wholly
in the hands of that small fragment of tbe empire
called Britain, embodies the idea of subjection and
inferiority on the part of the rest of the empire. It
puts it on the same level as the Spanish dependen-
cies—subject provinces, inhabited by an inferior
race which is to be overawed and kept in a state
of humility by a constant show of force. If Pre-
mier Barton comes back for the purpose of ex-
plaining that he has really fixed up an agreement
by which the Commonwealth is to double its
subsidy for the purpose of being probably deserted
in time of war, and strongly impressed with its
inferiority in time of peaee, he will probably find
that there isn’t enough explanation in the Com-
monweath to fully smooth out matters. And
Australia must needs begin to notice that every
time a Premier goes to England there is something
dreadful to explain on his return.
4
No Quorum.
“ Counting out” the house is quite a favorite bit
of strategy with N.S.W. Government just now.
If an awkward question is raised on a motion for
adjournment, Ministers suddenly find that they
have important business outside; and their sup-
porters make the same discovery. Some play
snooker, or billiards, or dominoes, or cards, and
become so engrossed in the game that an earth-
quake wouldn’t attract their attention—much less
the quorum-bell. A few members find that
they’ve been neglecting their education of
late and must read up Constitutional history
or Hall Caine ; you may find them in the
library and in various quiet rooms —also deaf to-
the bell. Then a Government supporter slips into
the chamber and “ calls attention to the state of
the House.” The Speaker has the quorum bells
rung (everybody who is not stone-deaf should hear
them), and nobody comes in, and a quorum isn’t
present, and the sitting lapses, and the awkward
question is effectively shelved. Sometimes, if a.
quorum of members will persist in remaining to
“make up a House,” the honorable member for
Blank is summoned to one Minister’s room to dis-
cuss the proposal to build a State hennery in his-
electorate ; and the hon. member for Dash
finds out that now is his chance to see
about getting that little favor for the
strenuous constituent with 11 sons and two
daughters, all grown-up; and the representative
of Anywhere is called out to see about some most
pressing local matter ; and they all go out because
by these things are politicians saved or lost in the
day of ballot-box judgment; and then there is no
quorum. Mr. Arthur Griffith's Bill to abolish
fees in the schools and make education iu
N.S.W. free as well as compulsory—a reform
which is suggested as much by expediency as by
logical justice—seems to have been treated in this
way on Oct. 7. At any rate it was counted out
and a most awkward question, on which the
Cabinet is bitterly divided, shelved. Surely the
Labor Party might have “ kept a house ” on this
occasion ? The Free Education Bill has now
probably been killed for the session, though it is
favored (in a sort of a way) by a majority of .the
Assembly. Sinister secret influences, however,
conspired to slay in the dark a reform bill to which
members or Ministers dare not show open hostility.
• ♦
Greater Sydney and the Lesser Mind.
The petty parish-pump spirit which envelopes
Australian municipal politics as a fog, and makes
young new cities in a bright, clean climate murky,
grimy and unlovely, was conspicuously displayed
at a recent sitting of the Greater Sydney Commis-
sion. The representative of an important
suburb (Paddington) pleaded in opposition to the
scheme of reform that as yet the population of
Sydney “was not big enough.” It was all very
well for London and Glasgow and Birmingham to
have advanced notions of municipal statesman-
ship ; they were big cities; Sydney was too
small for such great ideas, and should
walk on her heels a long while yet and grow
more dirty and dismal and disreputable with each
decade, and wait until she had a vaster popula-
tion and a bigger accumulation of dirt, and a more
appalling lot of jerry-built suburbs. Only old
rakes should reform, the Paddington man seemed
to think. Young, new sinners among cities
should keep on in the old evil ways, learning
nothing and reforming nothing, until suffi-
ciently decayed to justify an era of modern
municipalism. Paddington, by the way, is one of
the oldest of Sydney’s suburbs, and one of the
most dismal, and ugly, and dust-infested, and
crooked, and generally disgraceful—without a
decent green spot in its boundaries, a wilderness
of cracked asphalt and the broken metre of John
Cash Neild’s poetry; and it should be sufficiently
far-gone In squalor and unbeautiful degeneration to
call for reform. But there is always a class of
people from whom the suggestion of reform brings
the reply either that “it is premature,” or that
“the time is past.” Their lazy conservatism,
shuddering at the idea of a change as a medieval
baron would at the idea of a hot bath, finds refuge
in “too soon” or “too late.” Sydney certainly
lacks as yet millioYis of population; but that
makes the task of setting its civic government on
a clean and up-to-date basis the more easy. With
each year’s additions to property values, to ill-
regulated buildings, to badly-designed streets,_ to
municipal debts, to private enterprise exploitation
of concessions, the task of the municipal reformer
is much more difficult. Now is the acceptable
time. It’s never too soon to mend.
«
More Dry Dog.
Ex-Premier George Reid— he of the Cash Dog
and the Dry Basis—has lately been on the Free-
trade stump in Victoria, and, according to the
large heading in Sydney Telegraph, has supplied
some “Remarkable Factory Figures,” whereat the
Victorians were “Again Astonished.” As all
Mr. Reid’s figures are remarkable, being mostly
invented as be goes along, or else borrowed from
that amazing figure-dodger, Maximilian Hirsch,
it is no wonder that the Victorians were astonished
—considerably so. But in all the years that
George Reid has been beating the drum of the
foreign importers, and acting as political pimp
for British and German and Yankee manufac-
turers —in fact, for everybody except the Austra-
lian manufacturer—there are six or eight im-
portant questions to which it has never been
possible to get an answer, even when Reid was _
whirling his Dry Dog (most volubly, and these
questions remain unanswered to this day. Some
samples are these :
(1) Why is it, since Freetrade makes everybody Jolly
and Fat, that all the countries whose competition begins
to grow really dangerous—the rapidly rising countries
whose names are in everybody’s mouth, such as the
United States, Canada, Germany, and Argentina—are
Protectionist? Why is no new Freetrade State rising
anywhere ? .
(2) Why were none of these countries dangerous rivals
in their Freetrade days, for they all practised Freetrade
at one time, and stagnated under it, despite their great
resources? . „ ,
(3) Why is it that the Australasian State—Maoriland—
which has by far the largest number of people employed
in manufactures in proportion to population, and whose
manufactures are making the most rapid progress,
is about the most Protectionist of the seven States?
(4) Also, why is it that the State which has proportion-
ately the next largest manufacturing population—
Victoria —is also strongly protectionist ?
(5) Why is it that the best that Reid and co. can say for
their-semi-Freetrade policy is that under it N.S.W. has
nearly as large a number of people employed in manufac-
tures as a State half its age, and one-quarter its size, and
grievously hampered by an insufficient coal supply as
well ?
(6) Also, what is the good of any political liar ascribing
N.S.W.’s industrial progress to Freetrade, when N.S.W.
was partly Protectionist till 1891; still more Protectionist
from then till 1896 ; and partly Protectionist again from
1896 onwards?
(7) If Protection is such a good thing, why didn’t Reid
try it when he was in power? Also, why didn’t M’Middan
and Carruthers and the two Smiths and the Labor rene-
gade, Joe Cook, try it ?
(8) Further, why have the Sydney Freetrade papers in-
sisted for all these years on having 50 per cent. Protection
under the postal laws ?
(9) Finally, were all these papers and politicians lying
when thev said they believed Protection was bad for the
country? ’ Or did they believe it, and simply practise a
certain measure of Protection because they were hired
by some foreign enemy to damage the country ?
If George Reid would give up his loose and un-
fixable whirling of the famous Dry Dog and
definitely answer these nine questions, he would
clear up a lot of obscurities.
■*
The Treachery of the Victorian Factory
Bosses.
For bare-faced, shameless trickery the attitude of
the Victorian Chamber of Manufacturers towards
the Factories Act would be hard to equal. The
Act lapsed with the close of the late Parliament.
With a general election before them the manu-
facturers set about quieting the fears of the
workers. They were the first to meet and declare
that as the Factories’ Act had been lost by acci-
dent they would not take advantage of its tem-
porary disappearance from the statute-book. In-
deed, they passed a resolution to the effect that
they would support its re-enactment in its old
form until the report of the Factories’ Act Royal
Commission had been considered by Parliament.
At the time The Bulletin warned the workers
not to be lulled into a sense of security by these
fair promises of assistance from their enemies. It
is evident that the warning was not heeded.
If it had been the workers could have wiped
out all the manufacturers’ friends at the poll.
They did not do so—many of them voting
for men who, while professing friendship for the
Act, have done their best to wreck it. Now what
is the result ? The elections are no sooner over
than the Victorian Chamber of Manufacturers,
led by Derham, and men called Jacobs, Levi, and
Scarlett, holds another meeting, at which
its members declaim against the re-enactment of
the vital provisions of the Factories Act —the
Wages Board sections. Derham, among other
fine Tory things, said that
The employers did not object to the sections of the Act
dealing with sanitation and the limitation of hours for
females and boys, but they strongly opposed the re-intro-
duction of the Wages Boards for one day. They were
vicious in principle.
The employers thereby admit that, as far as the
men are concerned, they want a free hand to work
them as long as they like. Another bright
specimen of the manufacturers, T. E. Varley,
said (Argus report, Oct. 7):
Luck or Providence had taken the neck of the Chamber
from the collar, and it should take good care it did nob
get in again. He had himself enjoyed a little freedom
for some time, and life had been a good deal pleasanter
in his business relations since the Act had ceased.
(Laughter and “ Hear, hear.”) Those little modifications
which he had deemed advisable he had made—(laughter)
—and he expected that others had done the same. (Hear,
hear.) The employers of Victoria should determine not
again to endure these abominable labor boards for a
single half-hour. (Hear, hear.)
Now how do the workers feel who, trusting the
promises of T. E. Yarley, Derham and company,
voted for any other than democratic candidates ?
• *
The Verdict—Manslaughter.
The Drayton Grange horror having been investi-
gated by Royal Commission, the responsibility
for the loss of life which it caused has been
variously located ; but there is no attempt to
shirk the issue that the chief blame 3 rests
with the British War Office. After all,
there was only one definite issue before the
Commission. “Who was responsible for sending
an over-crowded, disease - infested transport
away 1 ” And to that there could be only one
reply—tbe Imperial authorities. Outside that,
it might be argued that the officer in charge,
Col. Lyster (since promoted by that very
strenuous Imperialist, General Hutton), might
have bearded the War Office and refused to
sail under the circumstances; or that greater
efforts on the part of officers and men might have
been made to alleviate the terrible conditions
created by the initial act of inhumanity. But
those issues were necessarily ones on which
opinions only, not decisions, could be given.
On the issue that the vessel was _ sent
away overcrowded and with an_ epidemic of
measles on board, the decision is. against the
Imperial authorities, and it is practically one of
manslaughter. The duty rests now with the
Australian Government to demand reparation on
behalf of the relatives of the men sacrificed by
tbe grossly criminal carelessness and haste of the
War Office ; and that’s a duty Mr. Barton must
be kept up to.
Brisbane Courier, in its leading article of Sept.
30, announced its decision that the principal
cause of Queensland’s troubles was the fact that
MTIWRAITh’s great continental land-grant rail-
way swindle fell through in the long, long ago.
Comforting discoveries of this kind are frequent.
When a community or a party is in trouble, it is
either its own fault or somebody else’s fault, and
the latter idea is the easier. If Queensland had
paid the costof government out of taxation, as many
other countries do, and devoted its land revenue
to public works purposes, it could have had its
transcontinental line without debt or trouble. As
the dominant Tory party of bygone years wouldn’t
pay taxes, this didn’t happen, and the con-
sequences, if the Tory party co.uld have them all
to itself, would be only what it deserves. There
was no Parliamentary Labor Party in Queensland
when MTlwraith’s' stupendous folly fell through,
but the Courier gets what satisfaction it can by
blaming the L a bor Party all the same. As a
handy, comprehensive scapegoat for things that
happened before it was born the Labor Party is
unrivalled.
♦
Sydney D.T. last week :
Mr. Lyne returned to Melbourne to-day. He
says that he will during the week confer with Major-
General Hutton and see that the wishes of Parliament in
regard to retrenchment are given effect to. It is painful
for him, he says, to have to do this extra retrenching, but
the Labor party must be obeyed.
S.M.H., same issue, same information :
Mr. Lyne also said it was painful to have to do this
extra retrenching, but Parliament must be obeyed.
There’s a good deal of difference. Now, was
Lyne foolish enough to use that very improper
remark about the Labor party to the D.T. ? Or
is it just a little move in the current newspaper
game to throw the blame for everything on the
Labor party ? The Conservative editor’s Litany
just now :
Who caused the drought?—The Labor party, from whom
the Lord deliver us.
Who caused the depression ?—-The Labor party, from
whom the Lord deliver us.
Who killed Guidfoyle ? —The Labor party, from whom the
Lord deliver us.
Who made Titos. Be?nt Minister ?—The Labor party, from
whom the Lord deliver us.
Who makes meat dear in Sydney?—The Labor party, from
whom the Lord deliver us.
The Bulletin, indeed, hears that the Gatton
outrage mystery has at last been unravelled—the
Labor party did it.
The “Corona Outrage,” one of the last incidents
of the shearing row. was a very small outrage
when stripped of its newspaper scare-heads.
The station, which is 60 or 70 miles outside Broken
Hill, started shearing with a “team” imported
from S. Aus., under M.S.U. terms. The A.W.U.
men formed a camp at the nearest township,
Tarrawingee. News went in there, by “ mulga-
wire ” and otherwise, that the men were sick of
their job, and were ready to throw it up, and the
camp at last decided to go out and invite them in
quietly and without any fuss. Next morning,
though, when it was explained to them that they
had broken agreement, and might be hanged, or
something of that sort, for it, and when
the police started to buzz round, some of
them began to go green, and said at the second
time of asking by the police that they wanted to
go back. Also, of course, they said they hadn’t
wanted to leave. Two of the men who went from
the camp to Corona were charged with riot,
assault, and fake imprisonment; and the jury,
though acquitting them of the riot and the
assault, was bound to find them technically guilty
of the false imprisonment, because admittedly, when
some of the men wanted to go out for an early-
morning drink, one of the camp stopped them.
Even as to the technical offence, though, the jury
recommended the accused to mercy on the ground
that they didn’t know it wa3 an offence. And
Judge Pring gave them mercy and 12 months
(three months off on finding sureties for three
years good conduct). If they had cracked a head
or two in an ordinary row, they would probably
have got 12 weeks. It was perfectly > obvious
tl'.at they gob the 12 months because they
were living in a strike-camp; if they had
not been doing that, all the “false imprisonment ”
to which they subjected anybody would have been
too small a matter for even the newest J.P. to
trouble about. Bub Judge Pring said there


The equitable life assurance society
of the United States.
FINANCIAL STATEMENT
FOR YEAR ENDING 31st DECEMBER, 1901.
ASSETS
INCREASE IN ASSETS
SURPLUS
INCREASE IN SURPLUS
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
INCREASE IN ASSURANCE IN FORCE ..
THE NEW BUSINESS EXCEEDED THAT OF 1900 by ...
*68,966,608
£5,508,678
*14,797,717
£1,039,973
*245,682,651
£13,000,350
£8,088,718
LOCAL DIRECTORS:
Sir WM. M'MILLAN, K.C.M.G., Chairman; Hon. C. K. MACKELLAR, MB MLC '
F. NORTON MANNING, Esq., M.D. '
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, F.S.S.,
F. C. COWLEY, Secretary. Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
SAWMILL MACHINERY.
BAND or CIRCULAR MILLS, very heavy for
hardwood timber. Complete Outfits of any capa-
city. BAND RESAWS. ENGINES. BOILERS,
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
PULP MACHINERY. GRIP PULLEYS.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers’
Gazette & Sailing List, with map.
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 Collin3-st., Melbourne.
4 Hunter-st., Sydney.
GrO TO TTTIT .T ■—
]<i()LANl> for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
had been “ too much of this kind of thing lately,
and he was going to make an example of some-
body ; so presumably Brown and Jones, of Tarra-
wingee, are punished for what a Judge had read
in horribly lop-sided newspapers. That is not the
sort of thing either Judge Bring or any other
Judge should do.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Town Hall* Melba.
Lyceum “A Million of Money.’’
Royal “ Sherlock Holmes.”
Palace . “ The Messenger Boy.”
Criterion “ Mrs. Goldstein.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.—Sandow.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ Charley’s Aunt.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Toreador.”
Theatre Royal “ Peggy Peters.”
Bijou “Oh ! Mr. Pennilove."
Opera House. Rickards’ Variety Co.
♦
“ A Million of Money,” revived at Sydney
Lyceum last Saturday, is the joint work of Henry
Pettitt and Augustus Harris, and when Henry
and Augustus wrote it they produced something
quite above the usual melodrama level. . The
“ Million of Money ” comes into the possession of
Baker at the conclusion of Act 1, after he
has annoyed Parson Maythorne by becoming
secretly married to his daughter. Baker’s down-
fall is occasioned by his habit of devoting his
coin to asylums, institutions, deadbeats, etc.,
and his after resolve to perish nobly out-
side of England gives scope for a good deal
of horse and soldier and mesmeric woman.
Baker, as the large, beautiful hero pur-
sued by the Fatal Millions, is much as usual.
There is never much variety about Baker nowa-
days, but his love scenes with Frances Ross and
Harrie Ireland (as the mesmeric lady) are con-
vincing. Miss Harrie Ireland is Well cast as that
siren. Mrs. Bland Holt, as the parson’s niece,
has not quite the part calculated to bring out her
best points, and her race costume might be better;
but Bland Holt, as a frisky divinity student,
makes a good deal of humor, which is rather
better than usual. A good, though small, part
study is that of Arthur Styan as the adventuress’s
first husband. The scenery includes the finish for
the Derby, a shipwreck, several glittering halls of
light, and some dens of sin.
** * *
“Sherlock Holmes” commenced his
statuesque career at Sydney Royal on Saturday,
but the city has not yet quite decided how to
treat the large, impossible drama. There are in it
some traces of Conan Doyle, who supplies Holmes
and Moriarty; but the girl, and “the papers,” and
the girl’s deranged parent, and Larrabee, who has
the girl a prisoner and twists her arms to make
her give up the documents, are extraneous
matter. Sherlock himself, as done by Cuyler
Hastings, is an interesting study. He is tall and
pallid, and beautifully dressed ; his face is iron,
and his voice is American ; and he withers people
up by the way he puts a long, cold, instantaneous
finger on their iniquities. The Professor (Sher-
lock’s great enemy, who runs a gigantic
criminal business and inysterious-murder-factory)
is one of Atholwood’s triumphs, a long, bent,
grey reptile in a long, brownish coat. He slinks
Where Sherlock stands Upright, and he has atti-
tudes that suggest a recently-hanged vulture. But
as he doesn’t do one successful crime in all the
drama he is at a disadvantage. Miss Mabel Lane
acts her part powerfully as the wicked lady of
the story, and Miss Chevalier has many good
points as the girl who is mauled to make her give
up the papers. Something good should also be
said for Augustus Glover and Hamilton Stewart.
But, apart from the two principals, the brightest
stars are Edmund Gwenn, as the hired burglar,
and Sherlock’s boy Billy. Billy is an amazingly
swift boy, and what with him and Sherlock, and
the constant neglect of the hulking persons whom
he employs in his wholesale criminal factory to
close the door, the Professor hasn’t a chance.
* * *
Melba sings like a sky-lark. That was the
first impression given by her pure, limpid voice
trilling in ecstasy through Handel’s “Sweet
Bird ” —an artificial composition which is only
tolerable with good singing, but which a Melba
makes exquisite. The Sydney audience, which
had received the singer with marked coolness,
thawed with this item, but not completely. It must
have been a sincere satisfaction to Melba to recog-
nise that her name, her advertisements, helped
not an atom to the splendidly enthusiastic greeting
which ultimately marked the first Sydney concert.
Every step from indifference to a passionate tempest
of approval she had to sing for, strive for. It was
not until after the last notes of the Ophelia aria
from Thomas’ “Hamlet” that Melba’s listeners
gave themselves up completely to her spell, and ad-
mitted that they had heard the perfection of sing-
ing. The whole gamut of the mad girl’s emotions,
horror, joy, exultant love, crooning sorrow,
distempered mirth, abandon of grief, was
presented by Melba’s voice—a fairy texture of
mist on which were thrown all the passions of the
human heart. The audience listened spell-bound,
eager, breathless, in many a face the reflection of
Ophelia’s ravings showing; and then gave itself up
to enthusiasm. That was theapogeeof theevening;
afteritnothingmattered much. The valsesongfrom
Gounod’s “Romeo and Juliet” was charming in
its melody, wonderful in its display of vocal grace,
but lacked the passion of the other; it did not
give the effect of making the whole air vibrate
with music and feeling.
* * ♦ *
Melba strikes Sydney as a great singer,
beside whom none yet heard in Australia can be
compared ; and, withal, she is an affable monarch
of song: her ways on the stage are superbly con-
fident, entirely graceful. Even when she frivols,
shakes empty hands with humorous appeal to the
audience, she frivols with dignity: it seems a
condescension, not an affectation.
** * *
As for the star’s three-men-and-two-girls
support : Baritone Signor Bensaude sang his first
song well, but without expression, and the effort
wearied him so much that he sang the next very
badly. Louis Arens, who was here with Mus-
grove’s Opera Co. two years ago, sang an aria
from “Der Freischutz ” without restraint. Miss
Davies should develop into a fine player one of
these days, and the little harpist has genius.
** * *
“ Mrs. Goldstein,” at Sydney Criterion,
continues to brighten weekly by means of new
ditties, a pretty item being the “Bose of Killarney. ”
Minnie Hooper shines in the song-arid-dance line,
her only inappropriate song being that of the
coon who had ceased to love Minnie, This should
be sung by a plainer girl. Mrs. Goldstein had a
snarling word or two for Celia Mavis, in act 3,
when she trod on his yellow skirt the other night
and loosened a bit of chiffon. Mr. Sheridan con-
fesses that he does not mind being a woman in
some respects, but he is bitter about the necessary
tightness and length of his beautiful clothes.
Everybody behind the scenes seems to have
designs on John’s gussets; even the calm horse
that wins the race by standing still evinces hostility
towards his accordeon pleating, when he can get
a chance to do so out of sight of the audience, and
wants to stand on John’s train with all four hoofs
** * *
“The Messenger Boy,” now at Sydney
Palace, is a sad illustration of the senile decay
of British humor. It is a woebegone, be-draggled
musical “comedy” with not a decent joke, or a
brightly indecent one, and not a catchy air. If
it were musical, it might be pardoned for not
being comical; if it were comical, its want of
music might be forgiven ; but it is neither. There
are some bright spots. Mr. Fred. Leslie’s sketch
of “Captain Pot” is one of them; though this
young actor has a tendency to inartistic exaggera-
tion at times, he is always lively and his dancing
is excellent. Miss Lilian Digges is given hardly a
show at all, though what little she is permitted to
do is very well done. Mr. George Lyding, on the
first night, was allowed no song in which to
display a tenor voice far above the average ; that
mistake was rectified afterwards, and an interpo-
lated ballad by him is now the best circumstance
of the show. Outside of those patches of bright-
ness there is little worthy of favorable comment.
Miss Rose Musgrove (as a maid, Rosa) and Mr.
Graham (as the Messenger Boy) do moderately
well, their best effort being a Dutch dance; but
they get no assistance at all from the author, and
are not equal to the task of making the play. One
or two ballets, in which Miss Annie Cobb leads,
do something to shore up the show, and the
dresses are superb. If the experiment were tried
of a re-allotment of parts, making more use of
Miss Digges and of the very promising young per-
son who played “a Pell-st. Girl” in the last produc-
tion, there would be, perhaps, some hope in “The
Messenger Boy.”
** * *
At Sydney Tivoli, Sandow, the Wiltons,
and the Fawns are the chief attractions, b 1 whilst
Sandow shows exactly the same arms a 1 lifts
the same ironmongery, the Nawns have a new and
very bright sketch. An imitation of Sandow by
one of the Wiltons is more amusing than the
genuine article. On Monday afternoon the man
of mighty muscle gave a private view of his sinews
to doctors and pressmen. Dr. Camac Wilkinson,
after testing his heart, certified that it was in
perfect condition and not in the least affected
by hypertrophy, which is rather common among
athletes.
** * *
“The Toreador,” which had been put
through some trial performances in Adelaide, was
tried at Her Majesty’s (Melb.) for the first time
on Saturday with the usual opening night results
as regards applause. Burdened with more encores
than it could carry, it went lame at the finish. As
a spectacle, assisted by a brass band and some
vigorous chorus effects, the entertainment is
bright and impressive at times, also there are a
few flashes of humor in the dialogue, and an
occasional snappy duet or dance. But, on the
whole, “ The Toreador ” inclines to dulness, partly
because it is full of conversation, and partly be-
cause the method of all the comedians is heavy.
Lauri spreads himself out at ease in his part as
though it were a very droll one, which it isn’t.
Hugh Ward, on this occasion, appears to
be imitating Lauri, and the new arrival,
Reginald Roberts, plays a British military
dude in a labored, mechanical style that length-
ens the performance in its weakest spots.
Roberts’s languid swell is described as a lieutenant
in the Welsh Guards, but he shapes like a con-
torted tourist, and drawls with an American accent,
until at last he comes to be rather tiresome. There
is a tenor singer in Melbourne—Charles Rose, one-
time a member of the Williamson Opera Co.—who
could walk through the same part, eyeglass and
all, without the least noticeable effort, and make
it look naturally humorous. And there were
comedians of yore, such as John Gourlay and
George Walton, who might have been rapidly
frivolous, incisive and amusing in one or other of
the principal characters. A comedy, mostly dull,
and never different to any previous work of the
same co., needs enlivening with touches of ridicu-
lous gaiety. Every now and then the still, small
voice of memory whispers “Where is Harry
Shine?” “What price Tom Wootwell?” and
other remarks of similar import.
** * *
The plot of “The Toreador” amounts to
a fantasia on well-known musical comedy stories.
Lauri, as Sammy Gigg, is the Flipper of the
“Runaway Girl,” before he gets changed into
Biggs of “ The Circus Girl.” Biggs was required
to wrestle the Terrible Turk, and Gigg is under
contract to slaughter six bulls in a Spanish arena,
bull No. 3—a tricky bit of beef with black and
tan spots on him—having been specially trained
to attack the toreador unexpectedly. Hugh Ward
is a dealer in menagerie goods instead of a circus
proprietor. Carrie Moore, as Susan, is simply
Flipper’s faithful Alice over again, and she and
her Flipper Biggs Gigg perpetrate a cheap
burlesque of a scene from “ Sherlock Holmes” to
the delight of exactly the same people who
applauded their other burlesque scenes. Some
people find nothing but weariness in these eternal
Lauri-Carrie Moore mimicries, which are not even
very clever of their kind. Harold Thorley, Maud
Chetwynd, Laurence Hanray (out of his element),
Rose Hamilton and Maud Chetwynd help to
point the resemblance between the present show
and its predecessors. Florence Young, as Dona
Teresa, a gaudy Spanish spinster of ginger
character, comes to hand rather late in the first
act and shakes things up musically and otherwise
whenever she gets a chance. The new lady (Miss
Lulu Evans) plays a character that seems to have
been dropped into the broken narrative at the
last moment. Miss Evans is a plump little lady,
and a tasteful little warbler, who will probably
improve on acquaintance. Her principal duties
this time are to masquerade as Maud Chetwynd’s
husband in a knickerbocker suit, and sing the
prettiest song of the evening as pleasingly as her
voice will permit. Two or three more of such
songs, and a generous curtailment of the talk
might improve “The Toreador” considerably—
perhaps. The ways of musical comedy are so
mixed that it is easier to prescribe physic than to
guarantee a cure for a sick patient.
** * *
“Charley’s Aunt” is being revived for a
week at Melbourne Princess’s, and if that historic
she-male gets sufficient inducement, she or he
will, no doubt, consent to be revived for one week
longer. Frank Thornton’s season expires on 31st
Oct., therefore the nights of “ Aunt ” are drawing
to another periodical close in any case. Thornton,
nowadays, is a more convincing old woman, and a
less genuine-looking young man, than he used to
be, but the'non-skirted Thornton is a compara-
tively unimportant feature in the proceedings.
Furthermore, the shortcomings of the com-
pany clustered around Aunt matter very little to
the good old farce. There are only ten characters
all told. Two of the ladies —Miss Eva Macdonald
and Miss Mercer —take the minor honors, and
Fred Cambourne is a neat edition of the college
scout, whereas one of the undergraduates has an
exasperating habit of smiling with his lower jaw ;
and Joseph Wilson plays a baronet from India
like a handsome pretender from coster climes.
His cockney accent defies dissimulation. A
splendid accent for knocking ’em in the Old Kent
Road, but it hasn’t a ring of truth amidst present
surroundings.
** * *
At the Bijou, the ponderous elocutionist
from “ Mars ” is droning out his gospel of Other-
dom to an unregenerate Parker, and Parker, under
compulsion, is earning the gratitude of a poor but
attractive Polly out in the snow, as before. “ A
Message from Mars ” has been blessed anew by
the local clergy, so The Bulletin herewith
exhorts Christian Endeavourers to come forward
and assist the good work—at popular prices—
before Friday of this week, when Parker will fall
a victim to Otherdom for the last time. On
Saturday, a new and original farce, by G. W.
Elton (son of “ Billy ” Elton), will be produced
for the first time. The title of the experiment is
“Oh ! Mr. Penny Love,” which doesn’t sound
like another moral lesson.
** * *
The Fitzgeralds are putting up another
galvanised-iron house adjoining their circus-
building at Princes Bridge, Melb. It takes the
place of the menagerie tent that last year got
blown to shreds at a cost of several hundred
pounds for brothers Tom and Dan. This new
fixture is calculated to withstand every sort of
storm except the tempestuous rage of Lizzie, the
elephant, who is getting such a big girl now that
she could boost her way through a brick villa resi-
dence. The circus starts next Saturday with new
electric light, and a blaze of astounding attrac-
tions. !
** * *
Paul Cinquevalli, the original Sultan of
Jugglers and Shah of Equilibrists, took the floor
at Melbourne Opera House, the other night, and
started to make business hum again. Business
had not hummed for a week previously, but the
advent of Cinquevalli brought a rested populace
back to Rickards’s without further delay. The
juggler has seemingly lost nothing of his skill and
grace since the first time he twined a wreath of
cannon-ball around his manly neck, and caught
the affections of a Melbourne audience. Moreover,
his strength remains unimpaired, judging from
the dog-cart he trifles with. Also Walter Burford,
the humorous element of the show, has added con-
siderably to his comic relief work during the three
years that his rueful countenance has been roam-
ing. Willie and Charlie, a pair of remarkable
acrobats from Paris and other places, made a first
appearance last Saturday. The rest of the bill is
chiefly composed of the Sydney Drews and Fred
Poplar.
## * *
Only a sparse crowd at Melbourne Royal
on Saturday night, when Maggie Moore, billed to
“create the name-part” in “Peggy Peters,”
cheerily carried out her ‘ ‘ creation ” contract, re-
marking casually that, though business seemed
slack, she meant to be as happy as she could.
Perhaps it was a mistake to advertise “Peggy”
as a domestic drama. The typical Royal patron
gets all the domesticity he wants, gratis. Besides,
the production in question is not so inordinately
domesticated as to demand a label to that
effect. The cast, for instance, includes no
chee-ild reciting its prayers in the night-
gown of stage innocence. The deserted wife of the
villain refrains from staggering home to die on
the snowy doorstep of her old home. On the
contrary, when her husband is safely jailed, she
settles down to a snug grass-widowhood at the
expense of the friends of her youth. With all its
faults, this is a chirpy little American play
brightened by two quaint bits of character study
— viz., Peggy and Peggy’s pa, a shrewd old
Yank, convincingly depicted by J. P. West.
With the exception of a coon (Lance Yane) and a
village constable (J. F. Forde), the other charac-
ters are stereotyped, and get better treatment
than they deserve from the company. The name
character, as created by Maggie Moore, is a large
lump of a girl, vulgar, self-sacrificing, cunning,
pert and amorous all in one. She is oafishly in
love with a bashful young farmer (Vincent Scully)
who suffers from an engagement arranged by the
old folks between him and Miss Osgood Moore.
The latter, however, discards the shy agriculturist
for a surveyor, and that sinful estate-agent con-
spires with the blushful hero’s wicked uncle to
cheat Nevvy out of coal-seams and railway con-
cessions rightfully appertaining to the dear old
farm. Peggy’s habit of going through the mail-
bag in her Pa’s post-office defeats their plots
but, in return, she is barred in a mill, in company
with a faithful coon, and set fire to by the vil-
lains. The victims escape by sliding down the
mill-shoot, but the shoot was a tight fit for
“Peggy” on first night, and it looked as if she
would be done brown before she could get enough
way on to slither down the switchback. In the
end, the timid farmer endeavors to get his arm
round Peggy’s waist, with only partial success,
the plump heroine having grown no slimmer, in
spite of foreign travel and Parisian modistes. The
play ends with everyone, but the gaoled villains,
starting to live happily ever afterwards.
♦
Melba deserves well of her compatriots for one thing, at
all events. She did not sing “Home, Sweet Home,” at
her opening concert—an act of forbearance worthy of the
highest praise.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
State finances for September, 1902, so far as
they are available (with certain reservations as regards
Westralia, the telegrams about the month’s finance being
muddled and none too intelligible):
Increase as com-
Revenue pared with
September, 1902. September, 1901
New South Wales .. £873,969 .. £141,984
Westralia .. .. 352,757 .. 50,946
Victoria .. .. 607,762 .. 19,245
Tasmania .. .. 61,397 .. 4,160
Queensland .. .. 244,894 .. 251,318
The Queensland figures look absolutely shocking, but the
explanation is simple enough. As a concession to the
pastoralists the payment of pastoral rents has been post-
poned for two months, therefore there is a decrease
under this heading of nearly £259,000. Under other
headings, in the aggregate, there is an increase, and the
pastoral item is only postponed—unless the Government
finds an unlooked-for difficulty in collecting the money
two months hence. N.S.W.’s increase during September
arises almost wholly from the tariff.
So far as the financial year has gone results are
as follows:
Revenue to Increase over
September, Corresponding
1902. Period of 1901.
N.S.W. (3 months).. £2,516,227 £332,412
Westralia ( „ ).. 976,568 159,755
Victoria ( „ ).. 1,684,731 28,554
Decrease.
S.A. ( „ ).. 512,534 17,189
Tasmania (9 months).. 523,793 51,516
Queensland (3 months).. 791,028 226,996
New South Wales has £377,646 more revenue from the
tariff than it had during the July-September quarter of
1901, so this accounts for more than the whole increase ;
under other headings there is a decline. The decline
of Queensland’s revenue, as already explained, arises from
the postponement of pastoral rents. South Australia’s
trouble lies in the great decrease of its railway revenue,
which has slumped to the extent of over £29,000.
The expenditure accounts of three States are
available at time of writing :
Revenue, Expenditure,
July-Sept., July-Sept., Surplus.
1902. 1902.
Queensland £791,028 £548,621 £242,407
Westralia 976,563 850,492 126,076
Deficit.
N.S. Wales 2,516,227 2,850,502 334,275
Compared with the corresponding date of last year the
surpluses and deficits show as follows—and it can't be
said that the showing is a very pleasant one :
Sept., 1901. Sept., 1902. Improve-
Surplus. Surplus. ment.
Westralia.. .. £56,559 ..£126,076 .. £69,517
Deteriora-
Deficit. Deficit. tion.
N.S. Wales .. 232,928 .. 334,275 .. 101,347
Surplus. Surplus.
Queensland .. 374,845 .. 242,407 .. 132,438
So far as New South Wales is concerned, these results are
sufficiently ghastly. It is the only State of the three
with a very large increase of revenue and at the same
time such a huge increase of expenditure that the deficit
is worse than ever. It would be interesting to know
what kind of revenue would keep the See Government
properly on its feet.
The only other important point is loan expendi-
ture, under which head, so far, complete returns are
available from two States only :
Loan Expenditure.
July-September, July-September,
1901. 1902. Increase.
N.S. Wales ..£713,529 £1,360,374 £646,845
Queensland .. 309,135 259,821 49,314
At latest advices the N.S.W. loan fund was overdrawn by
£4,229,459 —in other words, that amount is taken out of
the trust funds. Even with all the money that can be
borrowed in Australia, and reckoning the instalments of
the last loan still to come in, N.S.W. will need another
big loan in December or January to keep it off the rocks.
And already its credit has slumped so heavily that its 3
per cent, securities are lower in London than those of
Victoria, South Australia, Maoriland, or even Natal, and
another big N.S.W. loan is likely to send them still
lower.


tramways. ■mA.nvc-WA.Ys.
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Proprietary, Ltd.,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
Representing ORENSTEIN & KOPPEL LTD., of LONDON and BERLIN,
Rquip Complete TRAMWAYS and supply Every Description of Tramway Material
Locomotives from, 10 to 250 h.p. “atg
STOCKS IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE include Rails and Accessories, Steel
Sleepeis, Turntables, Switches, Side Tipping Trucks, Steel Wheels, &c. Technical
advice gratuitously rendered. Flying and Permanent Surveys arranged. Illustrated
Catalogues and Photographic Albums showing Tramways constructed in different
parts of the World, upon application. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager
FOR SALE . . .
Assaying & Metallurgical Business.
Snl'pni-t^i l City •*. pl . ant an<l Fixtur es Complete.
Splendid opportunity progressive energetic man.
“Bulletin,” Melbourne.
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “Option,"
Melbourne. *
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N. S. YV.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-street, Melbourne,
having returned from his visit to England, is now pre-
pared to purchase approved Mines and Mining Properties
situated in any part of Australasia requiring Capital for
Development and Machinery. Only genuine and
legitimate ventures, capable of bearing the strictest
examinations, will be entertained.*
* * * *
Many doubtful claims have been advanced on
behalf of duplex pumps. Some makers state that their
duplex pumps are “ double the capacity of single pumps
of same diameter and stroke.” An A. S. Cameron single-
acting pump can be run saiely and comfortably at a speed
that would knock a duplex pump to pieces. But even at
a low speed, duplex pumps seldom attain even their
theoretical capacities, and the reason for this can be
readily explained. Apply to the Agents, Messrs. W. and
J. Lempriere, 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, for
further particulars. The A. S. Cameron pumps are noted
for their simplicity, durability, and absence of outside
valve gear.*
* * * *
A revolution in smelting furnaces seems pro-
bable. The aid of gasoline has not been recognised.
Ernest de Beer, 439 Bourke-street, Melbourne, supplies
forms to suit assayers, which are marvellous in their
efficiency.*
* * * *
The Insurance Record, London, writes of the
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society’s latest report: —
“ The affairs of the Society are managed on sound and
economical lines, care is exercised in the selection of new
business and prudence in the investment of money is a
leading principle.”
* * * *
The Finest Rubber Mills in the Southern
Hemisphere have been erected in Melbourne by the
Dunlop Tyre Co., who are now prepared to execute orders
(in any quantity) for Suction, Drill or Air Hose, Packing,
Valves, etc. Mine Managers can place orders with the
Dunlop Company, with the greatest confidence as to
quality, price and workmanship. Correspondence
invited.
* * » *
The great cost of compressing air for rock
drilling, especially for small mines requiring to use only
two or three drills, has hitherto prevented mine managers
adopting machine drilling. The introduction of the
Gardner Electric Drill has removed this objection, small
mines can now be equipped with machine drills which
will do as much work as the air drills, and at the same
time provide the lighting of the surface and underground
workings at less cost than for air drills alone, while the
cost of operating them is less than one fifth of air drills
doing similar work, and the necessary power being so
small oil engines can be employed. Usually, however, any
mine using machinery will have sufficient boiler power
available to spare the three or four horse power required
to operate a couple of electric machine drills, and so
reduce their working costs and save time. The Gardner
Electric Drill is in use on many mines, and a proved
success ; the Austral Otis Company of South Melbourne,
who are the Australian agents, will be pleased to give all
information to anyone interested.*
* * * «
Complaints of stagnation in th© engineering
trade are as rife as ever, but, judging by the large stock
of Refrigerating and Ice-making machinery now at the
engineering works of Mephan Ferguson, Melbourne, he
must expect to do a large business in these machines
during the coming summer season. The prices for all
sizes have been greatly reduced, and purchasers are
invited to inspect and test these Refrigerators before
purchasing. This firm has also introduced up-to-date
machinery for manufacturing bolts and nuts, rivets, dog
spikes and every discription of ironwork.*
* * * *
The best investment in Australia is buying land
at Esperance, Western Australia, the natural port of the
Kalgoorlie goldfields. With a railway, Esperance will
become one of our busiest ports, as the trade with the
goldfields will pass through it. A permanent survey is
now being made. The railway is a certainty. Get in
early and make a fortune by purchasing a few blocks
before the great rush sets in. Price, £2O block; terms,
£1 a month. Write for plans and particulars to The
Perth Land Company, 101 Swanston-street, Melbourne.* .
• * * «
A mild reefing boom is on in M.L., owing to
recent rich finds in the Bunker’s Hill and Hauraki mines
Coromandel. The district is famous for its rich patches,
and both mines seem to have got on fine streaks of ore
Shares which a few weeks ago were to be bought for a
few pence are now eagerly sought at as many shillings.
SWEET SLICED MANCO
“SUN BRAND” INDIAN CHUTNEY
Quarts and Pints, obtainable from all reputable
Grocers and Storekeepers throughout the Com-
monwealth of Australia and New Zealand.
Insist on getting - - “ SUN BRAND.”
J.R. : Civil Service balance-sheet received*
u- sen< **ng 1° scrappy notices about balance-sheets
which have already been fully reviewed in this column.
* • • 9
N.S.W. State Treasurer Waddell has been
figuring things out. He says that the resumed area of
Sydney and the country lands repurchased for closer
settlement will not only pay interest on cost, but leave
enough over to pay off, in 40 years or so, the money bor-
rowed for the resumptions. It isn’t in the least degree
likely that this surplus will eventuate, but if it does
N.S.W. may rest assured that it will never get a chance
to accumulate if Waddell is left at the Treasury, or if
Oarruthers is there either. What is the good of talking
about what will happen if the surplus isn’t stolen or
diverted, when the surplus is dead sure to be stolen or
diverted ? It is as safe to leave a hyena alone with a fat
baby as an Australian State Treasurer with a sinking-
fund that isn’t chained down.
* * * *
The Langridge Mutual Permanent Building
Society (Melbourne), up to 20th September, 1902:
_ _ Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. off. serves.
1891 • • £7,856
1892 .. £8264 .. Nil. .. _ 16120
1893 .. 5149 .. Nil. .. .. 21,269
J 894 " 3378 *• Nil - •• £55 .. 24,592
1895 .. 3048 .. Nil. .. 2861 .. 24,777
If 9 ® •• 191 7 .. Nil. ... 78 .. 26,616
” 2254 •• Nil. .. 882 .. 27,988
1898 .. 2472 .. Nil. .. .. 30,460
1899 .. 2768 .. 2 per cent. = £1682 .. 545 .. 31,001
1900 .. 2918 .. 2* „ „ 2024 .. 283 .. 31,612
1901 .. 3149 ..3 „ „ 2382 .. 1924 .. 30,455
1902 .. 3962 .. 3* „ „ 2703 .. 2729 .. 28,985
The reserves consist of contingency-fund £24,979, reserve-
fund £3OOO, and undivided profit £lOO6. The manage-
ment reckons that the contingency-fund will suffice to
cover all losses arising from the realisation of the re-
mainder (£68,857 nominal value) of the foreclosed proper-
ties which fell into the society’s hands in the days of the
great collapse. Assuming it to be all required for that
purpose, the actual reserves are only £4006, but the con-
tingency fund may pan out a surplus. The Langridge is
an eminently sound building society, trading on about
£lOB,OOO of its own funds and only £10,549 of deposits. It
has no bank overdraft and no mortgage on its properties,
and is earning a shade over 5 per cent., while the earn-
ings show a steady increase. The great essential is that
it doesn’t relapse into the old habit of paying 9 and 10
per cent, dividends, and that it aims at having a £50,000
reserve-fund, instead of the utterly inadequate £7866
with which it was content in the days of the last boom.
* * * »
On Oct. 7 Adelaide Stock Exchange held its
morning meeting without any business whatever result-
ing. This is not an absolute record, but it has not hap-
pened before since the days when the Broken Hill boom
had declined, and Kalgoorlie as yet was not.
• * <p
William M'Culloch, the Victorian M.L.0., also
brings back from London the persistent, much-denied,
but apparently unsuppressable rumor about the Loan
that Failed. He says : “ The underwriters were sounded
as to a future loan for New South Wales, but refused to
have anything to do with it, nor would they touch a small
loan that Mr. Seddon wanted for Maoriland.” Seemingly
that alleged Seddon loan negotiation is a spectre that
won’t be laid.
* » * *
The Permanent Trustee Co. op New South
Wales (Sydney), dating from the time when it was still
struggling to pay oil its preliminary expenses :
Carried
Profits. Dividends. to Deficit.
Reserves.
1891 .. £202 Nil £202 £l4BO
1892 .. 146 Nil 146 1334
1893 1358 Nil 1358 “*’"7
1894 .. 764 Nil 764 788
1895 .. 1008 4 per cent. =£looo 8 796
1896 .. 1034 4 1000 34 830
1897 .. 1672 5 „ = 1250 422 1252
1898 .. 2249 6 „ = 1250 999 2251
1899 .. 2807 5 „ = 1250 1557 3808
1900 .. 1700 5 ~ = 1250 450 4258
1901 .. 2074 6 „ 1500 574 4832
1902 .. 2302 6 1500 802 5634
The year which closed on 30th September, 1902, is the
best, save one, in the company’s record. The business is
increasing steadily, the trust estates in hand amounting
now to £1,552,419—an increase of nearly £200,000 during
the past twelve months. Also, the reserve fund is
making respectable progress.
* * * •
The Citizens’ Life Insurance Co. (Sydney) has
been struck with a verdict for £650 damages, and a
lot of costs, through one of its officials publishing a
libellous document in the course of a business wrangle.
There have been three trials over this same matter, and
by this time costs, which was quite an obscure animal at
first, must be about full-grown. And the end is not yet.
• * * *
The South British Eire and Marine Insur-
ance Co. (Maoriland) :
Profits
less
amounts Added
written to Re-
ofif. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1893.. £29,952 10 per cent. = £6,463 £23,489 £118,814
1894.. 35,504 12* „ „ 8,079 27,425 146,239
1895.. 31,999 15 „ „ 9,694 22,305 168,544
1896.. 11,060 15 ~ ~ 9,694 1,366 169,910
1897.. 27,612 17* „ „ 11,310 16,302 186,212
1898.. 5,930 17* „ ~11,310 - 180,832
1899.. 27,560 17* „ „ 11,310 16,250 197,082
190 p.. 39,488 20 „ „ 12,926 26,562 223,644
1901.. 36,975 22* „ „ 14,541 22,434 246,078
1902.. 44,896 25 „ „ 16,157 28,739 274,817
The reserves consist of reserve fund £160,000 ; re-insur-
ance fund, £90,000 ; and undivided profit, £24,817. This
is a splendid record for a company with a paid-
up capital of only' £64,628, the reserves being now
considerably more than four times the capital. No
Australian fire office has ever put up anything like these
results. The revenue from interest on investments alone
is £15,237, which in itself is sufficient to pay over 23 per
cent, interest on capital. The only drawback about the
South British co., from an investment point of view, is
the immense and utterly ridiculous liability on its shares,
which are £1 paid-up, with a call liability of £lB. It
would require an enormous amount of fraud, disaster or
bad luck to turn the South British co. into a call-making
institution; but the liability—an utterly unnecessary
liability—is there all the time, and it isn’t a pleasant
thing to look at on paper. If the South British were
turned into a co. with, say, £100,090 paid-up capital and
no call liability whatever, it would be better for all
parties concerned.
* • * *
Appin : If you have paid two premiums, and
have only eight more to pay, it will most likely be better
to hang on to your co. You will probably get your
money back, but very little more ; still, the better terms
the A.M.P. would give you would, in all probability, be
counter-balanced by the loss of your two years’ premiums.
The Federal Palace Hotel, Limited, of
Melbourne (capital now £13,493), dating from the time of
the great clean-up, when about £llO,OOO of the share-
holders’ money disappeared:
Carried
Profits. Dividends. to Reserves.
•fuly- Reserves.
1897 .. £1237 . Nil £1237 £1743
Loss.
1898 .. 182 Nil 1561
1899 .. 125 Nil _ i 436
Profits.
1900 .. 2002 lOf p.c. = £1458 544 1980
1901 .. 3923 21* „ „ 2920 1003 2983
1902 .. 1700 Nil 1700 4683
The Federal Palace Hotel still plods away at the reduction
of its big mortgage—£ll2s paid off this year reduces the
burden to £56,375. But as the mortgage is reduced the
bank overdraft seems to increase, so that things are just
about as broad as they are long, or even a little broader.
The following is the situation before the dividend was
paid in 1900 and again in 1901; also the situation as it is
now:
Owing on Less Bank aw„i
Mortgage. Credit.
July, 1900 .. £59,000 £459 £58,541
Net Over-
draft.
„ 1901 .. 67,500 404 57,904
„ 1902 .. 56,375 1976 65.351
The insane 21J per cent, dividend paid last year has a
great deal to answer for. This process of reducing the
mortgage by increasing the bank overdraft is un-
satisfactory. It would be much better if the manage-
ment decided to pay a steady 4 or 5 per cent., and
dropped even that in bad years, instead of having an
occasional sensational dividend, with a period of extra
deep gloom to follow. And it ought to be a fixed rule
that, if there is any profit at all, the total liabilities will
be at least a trifle smaller each year than they were the
year before. A total debt of £58,351 requires a lot of re-
moval, and no time is too soon to seriously undertake
the work.
• » * *
Sydney “Royal” Agricultural Society, which
draws a big State subsidy for its services in promoting
agricultural knowledge by annual shows of drapery, tea,
trotting horses and jumping, also by promoting dances and
exhibitions of children’s needlework, is this year begging
its subscription from members three months before the
due date. The Society makes from £7OOO to £lO,OOO a
year out of its cheap-jack shows, it holds its ground rent-
free, and makes practically no effort at its improvement;
so it ought not to be hard-up. Then, why the beg?
• * * •
Wright, Heaton and Co., Limited, carriers,
shipping agents, and many other things, presented an
exceedingly prosperous-looking balance-sheet for the
half-year ended July, 1902. With regard to the sub-
joined list of extraordinary dividends and bonuses it
must be explained that £33,363 of the amounts nominally
divided among the shareholders were really amounts
transferred from reserves to capital, each bonus being
accompanied by a corresponding or nearly corresponding
call. The balance-sheets, however, don’t show exactly
how much was thus applied each half-year :
Dividends Added
Net and to Re- Re-
Profits. Bonuses. serves, serves.
Jan., 1900 £6873 60 per cent. =£10,373 £18,963
July, 1900 4659 30 „ „ 6,145 17,477
Jan., 1901 12,594 85 „ „ 18,758 11,313
£4OOO applied to buy up special rights of “ B ”
shareholders 7313
July, 1901 7288 34J per cent. = 9519 5082
Jan., 1902 9165 44 „ „ 13,269 978
July, 1902 18,089 10 „ „ 3395 £14,694 15,672
The process of paying up the uncalled capital was finished
at January, 1902, and in the last half-year something very
substantial has been done in the way of re-building the
diminished reserves.
• * * *
North Cobar shaft down about 500 ft. It is
intended to crosscut both ways at that depth in the hope
of finding a continuation of the Great Oobar lode.
Opinions differ as to whether the shaft is deep enough.
Nothing whatever was done on this property for over 20
years and present owners are to be complimented on the
enterprise and energy which they have displayed.
* * * •
Reported that the Crowl Creek mine, Shuttleton,
near Nymagee, which has been held under option by a
Melb. syndicate since the beginning of the year, will shortly
be floated into aco. Extensive prospecting work has been
done which has revealed a great length of high grade ore.
Understood that the purchase consideration, £30,000, will
have been netted out of ore won in development work.
With copper at about £5O per ton, and with all the dis-
advantages of the location, surely this is a record ! Pros-
pectus when issued ought to be attractive, but the public
are likely to have the poor satisfaction of being notified
that all the shares have been allotted.
* * * *
A battle royal has been raging between local
and Sydney directors of the Cope’s Creek Tin Dredging
Co., Inverell, owing to an effort being made by the former
to remove control of co.’s affairs from Sydney. Stated
that the local shareholders outvoted Sydney, but were
beaten on a legal point. Correspondence between the
two sets of directors was decidedly' warm, the gem of the
controversy being a local man’s suggestion that it might
be advisable “ to shift the dredge to Sydney and use it
for any other purpose than winning tin.” There are
several dredges in N.S.YV. which would be more likely to
succeed as gold-winners in Sydney harbor than where
located.
* * * *
Inverell diamond-mining lacks lustre at present.
Inverell Diamond Fields Co. of London—4oo,ooo shares—
has closed down. Co. has been an ignominious failure ;
tens of thousands of pounds have been spent, and not a
four-shilling diamond for each share has been produced.
The far-famed Monte Cristo mine (?) was submitted to
auction the other day without eliciting a bid. Five years
ago Captain Rogers is said to have refused £500,000 for
the show. It would make you laugh to look up the
rhapsodies of the Sunday Shellback concerning that
show.
• * • *
There is a great deal more meat in the N.S.W.
Mines Dept, report for 1901 than usual, though the
delivery is late. Also, though it is served excellently, it is
good meat only in places. Coal alone, in fact, saved the
situation last year. But for that the State’s mineral out-
put would have slumped over a million ; as it was, the net
slump was £617,341. The coal people never before got
within £400,000 of their total of £2,178,929. Their
tonnage output (5,968,426 tons) was never so great; and
since ’92 they have not had so good a price. In ’9B the
average was ss. 4d. ; last year 7s. 3d. That is for the
whole State. In the northern (Newcastle) district it was
Bs. 4d., in the western 4s. 9fd., in the southern ss. 3Jd.
But, while there was a big jump in the average price,
it only applied to Newcastle ; the western district
actually averaged ljd. less for its product than in
1900 and the Southern district 2d. less. Newcastle
averaged 2s. more. The most productive half-dozen
collieries were—Newcastle 370,167 tons, A.A’s New
Winning 362,922, Wallsend 320,086, Metropolitan 297,036
Mb Kembla 261,350, Seaham 255,052.' After that South
Bulli, close up with 246,361. Aggregates for the three
districts—Northern 3,999,252 tons, 9157 work people •
Western 424, 720 tons, 535 men ; Southern 1,544,454 tons’
2499 men. Coke production shows a splendid improve-
ment in late years—in ’96, 2635 tons, worth £21,850 •in
1901, 128,882 tons, worth £105,665. Certainly there wasn’t
much of a jump last year from the point reached in the
previous year; but, in view of the metal slump which
affected smelting, it did well to even hold its own.
Silver-lead, an easy first in most recent years
comes this time after coal. Total value, £1,959 021 or
£828,429 less than in 1900. For this knock-out the
market slump was responsible. But the waste in the
industry is appalling. After they had taken out all they
could, the “ refuse ” from the Broken Hill mills last year
contained 5,861,1380 z. silver, 50,029 tons lead, and 143,776
tons zinc. Of every 20s. in the ore they get out now only
about ss. The 15s. is the margin which the chemist and
engineer have to work on. Unfortunately some of the
co’s are sending down stuff still rich in mineral to fill up
the workings. The Broken Hill mines, though they don’t
rely much on timber nowadays for permanently staying
worked-out ground, put in 13J million feet of Oregon and
used 180 tons of explosives underground.
Copper production, like the market, is most
erratic. In 1883 it got up to its top, £577,201 ; in three
years it had slumped to £167,665 ; recovered again in a
couple of years to £275,034, and by ’93 was down to
£58,426, which was the worst since the sixties. Last year
it was £413,302, of which Cobar proper supplied £192,989.
A new mining inspector, a man of much practical experi-
ence, was put in charge of the Cobar district during the
year, and these are his main conclusions “ More tanks
wanted, and especially deeper tanks. Firewood and mine
timber are becoming exhausted ; hence, for the outlying
mines, railway connection is a vital necessity. Wood-
fuel is burned in a reckless and wasteful way. Few if
any mines are equipped with wooden economiser plants
to make use of the waste gases, and little or no attention
is paid to boiler and engine efficiency.” The struggle is
getting keener, and modern plants and men of the highest
attainments are now essential to success.
The gold yield, £921,282, was the poorest since
'93 ; still it was three times better than that of ’BB. (From
about ’B7, when Broken Hill began to talk, there was an
extraordinary revival in N.S.W. mining. In the three
years ’B4-5-6 the State’s total was £8,599,576 ; in the three
years ’9l-2-3, £17,253,565 ; in the last three years,
£18,735,014.) So far as the department is able to find out
the average yield is 9dwt. lgr. per ton. But the whole
gold statistics are unsatisfactory. Cobar gave 42,2990 z.
of the total of about 267,0000 z. (crude) ; and Wyalong’s
little lot was 21,7170 z., as against 44,6750 z. in ’99. At the
end of the year the dredging plants were of the declared
value of £289,333, and the 43 of them had managed to
find £89,628 worth of gold—cost of doing it is, of course,
not stated.
• * * *
B.H. Central (Sulphide Corp.) has had its first
underground collapse ; but at time of writing little can
be said of it except that, though serious, it will not affect
the output for longer than a few days necessary to
strengthen the workings near the collapsed section. This
mine is worked on the “ block ” system, which it was
claimed was theoretically perfect, in a word or two the
lode (very wide and regular here) is divided into 50ft.
sections. After a drive has been put along each wall of
the lode at a deeper level than the one hitherto worked a
block 50ft. wide is attacked. The ore is taken out from
the bottom, and as they work up they fill underfoot with
mullock (shot down through passes from the surface),
leaving a closely timbered gangway on either side of
the block. The mullock filling is, of course, kept to within
working distance of the roof (from 4ft. to 9ft.) When
the 50ft. block has been taken out right up to the level
above and mullock has replaced the ore, the next 50ft.
section is attacked in the same way. By being worked
upon like this the mullock filling is consolidated, and on
each side of actual operations there is always a 50ft. body
of either ore or filling, with gangways at convenient
intervals. Thereis nevermore thanafew feet of open space
(a few feet, that is, in height). So far, for upwards of
four years, the system has worked without a serious
hitch. Now, something started to go somewhere, as
with a castle of cards, and there followed a collapse
in that part of the mine. Only three men were at work
there, putting in mullock ; two of these were caught,
and, of course, killed, and their bodies may possibly not
be recovered for months. With this system in vogue,
however, any disturbance, though almost certain to be
felt right to the surface, is not likely to be felt over a
wide area. A collapse would be vertical rather than
lateral; and that is a distinct advantage, because it is not
so likely to affect the shafts.
* • « *
To set Zeb. Lane’s coal-briquetting works going
at Bunbury (W.A.), using up the friable stuff from Collie,
1200 tons of Scotch pitch was brought out, in bulk, under
special charter. The pitch started in cubes, but was
melted in the tropics, and on reaching port had to be
dug out. The plant has had a trial run ; it can handle
120 tons per shift. The briquettes weigh about 151 b.
each.
• • * *
Golconda, Lake Austin (W.A.), again recon-
structed. Of its 100,000 shares, 90,000 paid up to 17s.
have been allotted pro rata to holders in the old co. Co.
originally floated in ’94, and started crushing in July ’95 ;
6859 tons treated for 14,8520 z. gold, worth £53,000.* Ex-
penditure totalled £96,750; one div. of Is. 6d. per share,
or £6750, paid in ’99. Despite this expenditure, no work
was done below 200 ft. level, which is highly significant of
the style of management. Co. holds 90 acres adjoining
the Island Eureka, and, if properly and economically run,
should pan out better in the future. Since resuming
operations, the reef has been cut at the 256 ft. level, 2ft.
wide and worth 30dwt.
• « * •
Westralia Mt. Morgans has now got its second
30 head of 15001 b. stamps ready for starting, but when
they will start is a moot question. The lode down to
300 ft. level is pretty consistent; running up to 70ft. in
width, and worth, according to returns, nearly 25dwt.
per ton. At 460 ft. level there is no lode at all going
north, and it is not too good going south. At 500 ft.,
nothing but a stringer has so far been located in the cross-
cut, although it has been carried 100 ft. past where the
lode should be. Latest battery return is 3491 tons, 40200 z.
—very satisfactory, if continuance could be relied on.
* * * *
Boulder Perseverance (W.A.) is now carrying
the main shaft from the 900 ft. to 1100 ft. level. Down to
500 ft. levels were opened up every 100 ft., but, below that
depth, intervals of 200 ft. are allowed. To get rid of the
tailings, a tram-line is being erected to the Great Boulder
South, nearly a mile away. The Perseverance’s quarterly
div. of 10s. per share, equivalent to a distribution of
£87,500, was payable on 14th inst. The oxidised ore is
now exhausted, so that the sulphide mill will have to
produce about IOOOoz. extra to maintain output.
* • « *
Shareholders in Bottomley’s Associated Finance
Corporation are promised returns from their alleged
gold mines, the Associated Mt. Jackson (W.A.) and the
Trafalgar (W. A.). Circulars have been issued to the effect
that a cable from the manager of the former, dated July
21, stated that “ mill trial very satisfactory ; commencing
at once three shifts daily,” and from that of the latter,
“ 200 ft. level assays run Bto 9oz. ; potentialities Under
foot unknown." The latter is artistically vague—it may
mean anything or nothing. The Mt. Jackson has been
worked on and off for a dozen years without result, and
the Trafalgar for half that time. Since the issue of the
circular no further news from either property has been
forthcoming. Significant, however, that Bottomley has
been circularising shareholders to take up a batch of
unplaced shares.
* * * *
The new find at Edjundina (W.A.) is still
strongly in evidence, the test crushing of 2400 z. from 10
tons from the Queen’s Birthday having again focussed
public gaze on the field. Govt, has arranged to
survey a town site, and Cobb and Co. are now running
bi-weekly coaches between Kookynie and the find.
Boulder Hamilton is pushing down three shafts on his
acquisition, the Wallaby, in order to have the reef
thoroughly tested before the expiry of his six months’
option.
* * * ,
Paddington Consols (W.A.), recently acquired
from the Standard Exploration Co., has made a very
inauspicious start. Work underground was hardly re-
sumed when a serious fall of earth occurred. The 40'head
battery was erected on the hanging wall of the lode, and
until its removal, the underground workings will be a
veritable death-trap. Co. is operating in a very half-
hearted style, and apparently cash is a scarce commodity.
On Associated Northern (W.A.), a second trial
bore has satisfied the management that pay ore exists
below present lowest level of 500 ft., and the sinking of
the main shaft is therefore to be shortly resumed.
Up to date the mine has produced about 65,0000 z. of gold
from 12,000 tons, a record of developments, which few if
any, other mines can show. In addition some 1500 tons’ of
B°z. ore are now awaiting adjustment of assays. Co has
paid one div. of 55., equivalent to £87,500, and, besides
having its original working capital of £lOO,OOO intact, has
a very considerable magin of cash in hand to meet con-
tingencies, or distribute in divs. Co. has ordered a 20-
head battery much on the lines of the Ivanhoe’s, and
should shortly make a start as a regular producer.
* * * *
Some W.A. returns for October Perseve-
rance, 12,487 tons, 16,3110 z.; Boulder, 8866 tons, 13,6190 z. •
Ivanhoe, 10,767 tons, 12,1720 z. ; Fingall, 7470 tons’
12,0050 z. ; Horseshoe, 10,379 tons, 10,3800 z. ; Oroya 4197
tons 75050 z.; Lake View, 6388 tons, 66060 z. ; Associated
Northern 720 tons, 60550 z. ; Sons of Gwalia, 7735 tons
54820 z. ; Associated, 5119 tons, 47260 z. ; Kalgurli 3645
tons, 38720 z. ; Cosmopolitan, 4793 tons, 28520 z. ; South
Kalgurli, 2630 tons, 26000 z. ; Princess Royal, 1689 tons
24020 z. ; Bellevue, 1290 tons, 15090 z. ; Merton’ 806 inns’
J4940Z. ; Hainault, 855 tons, 14790 z. ;’Boulder MaA Reef’
1966 tons, 14610 z. ; Long Reef, 2324 tons, 11320 z. ; White
Feather, 1500 tons, 10460 z. These figures represent an
average of nearly ljoz. per ton. represent an
* * * *
£3 T 7s d ßd te ’ Lyell k. as . P aid £896,886 in divs., or
£3 is. 6d. per share. This is a five years’ record, and it
is quite sate to assume that next five years will not show
anything like such a result. Last div. was paid out of
reserves, and until copper improves in price further dis-
tributions will have to come from the same source. Since
completion of North Lyell smelting contract output of
copper has been reduced nearly one-half.
* * » *
Victorian retrenchment policy is being carried
to an absurd extreme. At Fosterville, near Bendigo,
Government sank a prospecting shaft 400 ft., and started
to crosscut the country ; 114 ft. had been driven, and it
was estimated that in 100 ft. more the lode channel would
be intersected. An expenditure of £2OO at the outside
would complete the work and determine definitely
whether or not there was pay ore at that depth, yet at
this critical stage instructions have been issued to shut
down. Fosterville is the field on which three cos., work-
ing on large, spurry formations, make profits on ore which
in bulk is not worth more than 6s. per ton.
• * « »
After years of negotiating, Black Horse and
Egerton co’s (near Ballarat) have agreed to amalgamate.
The two co’s have paid over £500,000 in divS., but latterly
have been under a cloud, and, owing to unreasonable
jealousy, or failure to make a common-sense business
arrangement re the cost of draining, development work
has not been decently advanced. There are enormous
quantities of low-grade ore in both mines, which might
be made to pay if the new co. would erect an up-to-date
100-stamp mill. The equipment on the mines is old-
fashioned, capacity of the batteries probably not being
more than two tons daily per stamp. The Egerton mine
provided the most expensive and sensational law-suit in
Australian mining history. The case of Learmonth v.
Bailey figured in the Vic. law courts for years, and all
sorts and conditions of people, from bank managers to
parsons, were involved in it. The allegation was that
certain of the owners of the mine discovered a large body
of rich ore and concealed the fact from their partners,
whom they bought out at a low figure.
* • * *
An English co., promoted by expert Rolker,
has been doing big prospecting work on the supposed
southern continuation of the Garden Gully reef, Bendigo.
The property adjoins the Great Southern mine, which
occasionally figures largely in the div. list. Rolker’s co.
sank a shaft 1400 ft., and at every 200 ft. below 400 ft. put
out crosscuts to what is known as “ centre country.” So
far, nothing of anv importance has been revealed, but it
is stated that the indications in the bottom crosscut are
the most favorable that have been met with, and it is
proposed to sink shaft 200 ft. more. This is the model
shaft of Bendigo. Property is bounded on the south by
the general cemetery', part of which was bought in boom
time of ’7l in graveyard allotments for the purpose of
mining. An area sufficient (for surface equipment was
thus acquired but nothing further was heard of the
scheme. Writer has an idea that a more likely place for
prospecting work would be on the opposite side of Back
Creek going towards One Tree Hill.


DAVID JONES & CO.
HIGH-CLASS HATTERS
Genuine
Pine-Grade
Hand Selected
Panama Hats
25/-, 37/6, 55/-.
George & Barrack Sts., Sydney
MART ELLS
‘.‘A genuine
old Brandy
made from
Wine.”
Medical Press.
THREE STAR
Particularly suitable
for Medicinal
Purposes.”
Tha Lancet.
Society
Only in Victoria, still under the monstrous
shadow of gloomy, savage Calvinism, could it
have been decided in the 20th century to wait for
the birth of Mrs. Shngal’s child, then snatch the
suckling infant from her breast and hang her by
the neck until phe is dead. The horror of the
foul crime which'the wretched woman committed
will be utterly overshadowed by the deliberate
brutality pf the law’s act —an act in which every
member of the community will be a participant.
The outrage agairfst the sentiment of maternity
—a sentiment which even protects the wolf
in whelp except against the' wholly callous ;
the long-drawn-out ferocity at the bedside, with
the hungry hangman eager to push aside nurse
and doctor and claim his victijn—will be .of more
mischief to the community than could be done by
a, hundred Mrs. Sangals. The" waiting, the
watching, then tjie writhing woman and the
wailing infant—the hideous horror of it will breed
in the hearts of the people unimaginable thoughts
of cruelty. If Victoria hangs Mrs. Sangal the
State will pay the price of the butchery with a
hundred future atrocities.
Such an execution, The Bulletin asserts, would
be impossible in England, or America, or France,
or Germany. It would even be impossible in any
Australian State save Calvin-ruled Victoria.
There is no English precedent for it for a hundred
years; nor is there a single Australian (convict-
time or other) precedent for it since the morning
when, at the behest of an ice-blooded lag-day
official (who, sh.ameful to relate, afterwards became
N.S.W. Chief Justice), Mary Brownlow’s gaol-
born infant was torn from her breast that the
mother might expiate, at the hands of the hang-
man, the death of the husband whom she had
killed in a casual quarrel, with the weapon nearest
to her hand.
*•»*•*♦♦
An inquest on the body of an old man a<»
George-street Asylum, Parramatta (N.5.W.),,
again draws attention to that hideous institution.
The old fellow was aged 72 and threw himself
from a second-storey window on to the asphalt
beneath. He was described as being in the last
stages of senile decay and yet was forced to live
on the second floor of the old barrack with some 30
steps between himself and the ground. He had
his choice of a tomb on the second storey or one
below ground, and took the latter.
* * * •
If poor dry South Australia has to part
with everything else besides her debts, she
has made up her mind that her Dignity shall not
go. Wherefore this happened in the Leg. Council
t’other day :
The Hon. A. B. Addison asked if the Attorney-General
(Hon. J. H. Gordon) would intimate to his Excellency the
Lieut?nant-Governor that it is desirable in future that
when a person brings a message to the Council from his
Excellency he should be properly attired. Last week a
message was brought by a person wearing a great-coat.
The President said he thought Mr. Addison need not
press his question, as he was able to give him an assur-
ance that it would not occur again.
A message brought to a Legislative Council by a
person wearing a great-coat! Now we know w,hy
earthquakes have happened to S. Australia.
* * • •
“Veteran”: In connection with the
Drayton Grange business, we have heard a lot
about the difference between regular and irregular
soldiers. It would be interesting to get a precise
definition of this difference. Both sorts are
armed, clothed, drilled alike, and are apparently
liable to the same punishment if they don’t
behave themselves. One distinction, however,
seems to be that the regulars are looked after, by
their officers, and the irregulars are not. We
used to be told that the Australians in S’Africa
“ never complained.” They most likely knew it
was no use. The regular is always ready to com-
plain, and if he can get no satisfaction from hjs
captain, he goes to his colonel, and, in the last
resort, to the commander-in-chief.
• • • •
At a Sydney W.C.T.U. meeting—
Mrs. Pottie said she had regularly noticed men going
in and out of public-houses on Sundays with the object
of getting drink. This, in itself showed how certain laws
could not be thoroughly enforced.
Marvellous, isn’t it, what acute perception some
people are gifted with !
* * • •
Onß of the stalwart brothers of the unfor-
tunate Lieutenant Witton is in Melbourne jiJst
now, obtaining signatures by the hundred to
another petition for tlxe prisoner’s release. The
injustice of Witton’s sentence was clearly shown
in the fact that the court-martial recognised his
comparative irresponsibility for the killing of any
Boer prisoners other than the one man whom he
(Witton) shot down in what was practically self-
defence. And, as “the petitioners humbly
submit,” there was no reason (save British foreign
policy) for assuming “criminality in a young and
inexperienced lieutenant, with no previous experi-
ence in the field, less than a month with his corps,
less than a week with his detachment, placing
faith in and yielding obedience to the distinct
assurances and positive commands of two superior
officers having vastly better means of knowledge,
and with all the advantage and power of rank
and authority.” If the Witton petition to the
King is ever allowed to get there by the military
authorities in London, the amiable young giant
who was condemned to imprisonment for life will
certainly be released. If not, the petition may
be closely followed by a demand.
« » * *
For the past year or two the returned
trooper has been a boon to the Maoriland poli-
tician. The most inveterate billet-hunter could
generally be staved off by the plea that all
vacancies were reserved for those who had borne a
share in the honor of upholding the Grand
Old Flag. Now, however, the excuse is about
used up, for the returned trooper is there in his
hundreds clamoring for billets that can’t be found.
Meanwhile,, a humiliating reaction has s.et in, and
the'papers complain that a decent funeral is not
possible for»a dead trooper, even his own comrades
forgetting to attend.
* » * •
The contingenting business doesn’t pay,
either in cash or gratitude. For instance, this is
a sample of the literature published about us by a
Jingo paper in S’Africa :
They are all tarred with the same, murky brush, the
Australians, the Tasmanians, and the wretched Norfolk
Islanders. . . . I have been reading the-cables of*“The
Crowdted Transports” business, and the amount of useful
newspaper space given to these carping, crying, vulgar,
vicious Australian malcontents, fairly sickens me. Who
and what are these people that they should receive more
attention, more nursing, more petting, more comforts,
more coddling than Scotchmen, Englishmen, Irishmen,
or Welshmen ? This pampering is repugnant to people
with any manliness or decency in their composition. But
I am satisfied that the Australians are feather-bedders,
growlers, grumblers, curled darlings, and no-account
men. They were cracked up—by themselve.s —during the
campaign, and now they want to travel first-class, and be
feasted on chicken and champagne for evermore. Great
Scot! Who and what are they after all ? Well, we have
all heard about Botany Bay ! We know their breed.
Their progenitors were not wanted in the United King-
dom. They used to sing :
True patriots we, for be it understood,
We left our country for our country’s good.
And now, not a few of the descendants of these bad, old
chain-gangers are crossing the Indian Ocean for South
Africa. Of course, they are a sample of “ the true
patriots.” ... I have travelled throughout Australasia,
and I know the people, and I know little to their credit
outside the boodlers’ bank books.
* * • *
General Hutton, despite the striking out
of the provision for Adelaide drill-instructors
from the military estimates, wishes to keep them
in S.A., but apparently Bill Lyne has pledged
himself to their departure. The men were not
sent to Adelaide because they were wanted there,
but because they had been cut off the establish-
ment in N.S.W. and Q., and Gen. Hutton did not
know what else to do with them.
* * * *
There are persistent rumors that the
“ absolutely competent and distinguished ”
General Hutton finds his position as Federal
Commandant intolerable, and that, after “reor-
ganising” the Australian army into chaos, he has
decided to throw up the sponge and go back
whence he came. Minister Lyne, “on Aug. 5,
sent a minute to Gen. Hutton, stating he could
not agree to any proposition giving control of the
troops, actual or implied, to anyone outside the
Commonwealth.” That was a cruel snub, for
Hutton has taken it into his head that it is his
duty to make Australia furnish an auxiliary force
at the call of the British War Office. The army
which Gen. Hutton has now has no legal exist-
ence. There is no law in Australia empowering
him to punish for a breach of discipline, and if one
of his soldiers stepped out of the ranks and
“landed” him in the eye, the only remedy open
would be ordinary police-court proceedings. Even
Minister Lyne seems dimly to see the absurdity of
the whole thing, and what Lyne sees is pretty'
obvious.
• * » »
“Intense love of the Motherland” was
the representative Australian explanation when
batches of men went farm-burning to S’Africa.
Australians have lately been pestering the Ameri-
can Consul to be enlisted to serve under the Stars
and Stripes in the Philippines. Intense love for
the Motherland' isn’t a feasible explanation this
time.
• * * *
Speaking at Sydney W.C.T.U. Conven-
tion, t’other day, Miss Lucas mentioned the diffi-
culties a virtuous, but destitute, Sydney girl
encounters in search of a shelter. On a recent
occasion, the speaker affirmed, a girl had applied
for admission to the Union boarding-house, and,
when asked if she had applied elsewhere, she
said she had been to seven different homes
without being able to obtain shelter, though, if
she had been “a fallen sister,” she could_have
got immediate accommodation. The irony of it!
THE ONLY WAY.
HOSTESS: “ Oh, Mr. Guest, going away so early
and must you take Mrs. Guest with you? ”
GUEST: “ Yes, I'm awfully sorry—but I've got to.”
%
A St. Kilda (Melbourne) constable was
shot dead in the street on Sunday forenoon by a
man (supposed by some to be the same who killed
policeman Guilfoyle in Sydney), whom the officer
was pursuing on a charge of molesting a young girl.
The murderer then walked about peacefully think-
ing things over, till he saw another policeman
rushing for him, whereupon he shot himself.
Judging by his actions he was an experienced
criminal of longstanding, and when the body -was
overhauled the wages of sin were found in the
pocket as follows:
A metal watch and chain, pieces of lopk, one barrel of
an opera glass, a bottle and a tin of vaseline, a skeleton
keyp a wooden pipe, a saddler’s awl, a bottle of nitrate of
silver, portion of a metal watch, a thimble, a purse con-
taining 25., a -New South Wales railway time-table, a
chisel llin. long, a two-bladed knife, a packet of sulphate
of copper, a sharpening stone, and a file. There was also
a clipping from the Argus of September 18 referring to
attempt to shoot Constable Davey at Prahran
for which offence a man received li years.
Sin, unless pursued in a large intelligent way, is a
dead failure.
» • • •
“Adelaide” : The earthquake par. in B.
4/10/’O2 does not do justice to the electrical effects
produced in saying that 300 subsoribers rang up
the Exchange forthwith. Everybody rang up as
soon as the shock was over. But quite 300
shutters fell in the Exchange at the moment of
the quake, and as a consequence of it; also, the
fire-brigade was automatically “called” at the
same moment by every alarm in town. The
modern habit of weaving electricity all round and
through a city has great possibilities of surprise
(and possible mischief) when the ordinary condi-
tions of Nature are disturbed.
« * * *
A North Terrace (Adelaide) doctor hap-
pened to be examining a man for life assurance
purposes, when the earthquake came along, and
applicant opened a door and bolted. He shot into
an adjacent drawing-room, where the medico’s
wife was entertaining some ladies, and the sudden
apparition of a half-naked man added to the
panic. Quite a number of people forgot their
clothes in Adelaide that day.
» * * *
Consequences of the earthquake are
gradually working out all round Adelaide. A
suburban town-hall is found to be so badly cracked
' that all engagements made for letting it have been
cancelled. Also a sensitive person whose nerves
went all wrong, and who begins to hear things in
the night, advertises that he has bought a
revolver and will shoot wildly at any nocturnal
marauder.
• * * *
Whilst there is so much talk by the
N.S.W. branch of the British Medical Association
of discountenancing advertising by doctors, it
doesn’t look well for its chief Panjandrum to
figure in print with a long testimonial as a bar-
racker for a mineral water—even if he does happen
to be the son-in-law, or something to that effect, of
the mineral water aforesaid.
The Agapemonites, who have
been recently “tearin’ round” in
London, and about whom we have had
cables, are followers of the late Brother
Prince, an ex-Anglican parson, who
claimed all kinds of divine powers.
He managed to wheedle much money
from his rich converts, amongst whom
were the sisters Nottidge, whose in-
fatuation for “the Beloved,” as
Prince was called, resulted in a
law-suit with scaudalous exposures.
With money obtained from dupes,
Prince built the “Agapemone,” a
charming place, at Spaxton (Eng-
land), where all kinds of mum-
meries, and worse,-were carried on.
In the presence of his second wife
(daughter of a parson of standing),
“Beloved,” with due mystic rights,
ook unto himself in
“spiritual marriage”
a bride, and thus
“living flesh was
to have been recon-
ciled to God.” Un-
fortunately, Sister
Zoe, the Madonna,
was in due course
delivered of a
daughter, and this
was a “ staggerer ”
to all concerned.
“ Beloved ” tried to
explain the matter
away by saying
that the child was
the devil’s parting
gift. However, seces-
sions followed, and there
was shortly afterwards a
general burst-up. Now the curious mixture of
cant and cuddle raises its obscene head again.
» * • *
During the hearing of a*recent Melbourne
maintenance case it was testified that defendant,
though a sober man in steady employment, spent
upon himself every stiver he earned ; swelling it
around, well-clad and well-fed, while his miserable
wifeancbehildren were actually trying to support life
upon cabbage-stumps and other refuse. It even
looked as if he made mock of their wretchedness;
for, on one occasion, after leaving them without
food or money for a week, _he turned up
and graciously presented them with a loaf of dry
bread. The drunkard who incidentally neglects
his family is unfortunately common enough, but
such a coid-bloodecjly callous brute as this man, as
far as The Bulletin knows, is an absolutely
unique specim en.
* * * *
At the recent S.A. criminal session a
“ false pretences ” prisoner, in asking for a light
sentence, said that as soon as he came out he
would try to make restitution to prosecutor.
Light sentence accordingly.'' After which the
Crown-Solicitor applied to have the money found
on prisoner when arrested handed over to prose-
cutor. But the Judge ruled that there was no-
thing to show whose particular money this was,
and he could not dealwith it without consent of
prisoner. Prisoner refused enthusiastically !
“A LITTLE BIT OFF THE TOP."
“ The fact is so obvious that it cannot be a secret
that Queen Alexandra wears a wig. Before the day
of Coronation, the Archbishop of York, or somebody
on his behalf, had to explain that it would be quite
impossible to anoint a wig. The difficulty was
finally solved by cutting out a piece at the top, in
the shape of a tonsure, and when the ceremony took
place, the Archbishop of York poured the oil of
anointing into the hole.”— Argus.
Mb. Deakin : “ Well, Toby, old boy, what have
you got there?”
Mb. Toby: “Ah, see how our Lady Queen
delights to honor the Commonwealth ! This
is the piece out of the Royal wig which she
sends to be a pen-wiper for ever and ever on
the table of Federation.”
FLANNEL FLOWERS.
[For The Bulletin.]
Flannel flowers are in !
Bloom so debonair,
To the stars akin, —
Flannel flowers are in !
Ah ! but fairies spin
Silken love-bonds where
Flannel flowers are in
Bloom, so debonair 1
T.
J.D.


TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is, everywhere.
Madam Melba’s suite of rooms at the Hotel
Australia has been got up in Manager Smith’s best style ;
and the day before Madam arrived Manager Smith put in
all his time showing the apartments to the many women
who flocked into the Australia to view Melba’s carpets
and grand piano, satin chairs, silver vases, pictures,
flowers, curtains, cushions, and all the other things that
women admire. Madam’s bedroom attracted most
attention, however ; with its snow-white bed (never used
before) the little table for Madam’s Bible, and the dainty
window curtains. Outside the bedroom is a spacious
balcony warmed by the sun of a morning, beautified by
the poetic moon of an evening. Manager Smith has
always a keen eye for the poetic moon and he arranges
with it to shine whenever available without extra
charge.*
W ild’s, in the Sydney Arcade, is the most
fashionable gentlemen’s hairdressing saloon in
Sydney. Every attention possible is paid to the
customers by six expert hairdressers. Address. —
30 Sydney Arcade, entrance from George-street
or King street, Sydney.*
May Vivienne’s charming book of “Tra-
vels in Western Australia,” which is now being so
extensively read in Australia, as well as in Great
Britain, commends itself warmly to readers. The
authoress seems to be blessed with the great gift of
seeing most things in a rosy light and enjoying life
so thoroughly that she imparts a feeling of ex-
hilaration to those who read what has emitted from
her pen. As a great newspaper critic in London
says, “Truly, a most magnetic and remarkable
woman indeed.”*
AUSTRALIAN STAMPS
Bought, Sold & Exchanged
Gibbons’ Philatelic Albums
and all requirements Price lists gratis.
J. H. SMYTH & CO., 88 King-st.,
SILVER STAR STARCH
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
The bricked-in
building (“School of
Industry ”) in Darling-
hurst (Sydney), where,
for 30 years, there has
been a manufactory of
homeless little girls into
young women adept at
the long seam and the
raising of light pastry,
has been bought by
Mark Foy for a factory
for slops, leaving 50
little maids flapping
their print tippets,
ready to take wing and
establish a hive of in-
dustry elsewhere.
Lady Darling’s ad-
vanced notions found
vent, not in trying to
get women to vote, but
in endeavoring to im-
part the rudiments of
domestic science to the
rising-up Australians.
So, in 1826, a kind of
cheap boarding-school,
where girls were taught
to make bob-courtesies
to their elders and bet-
ters, and to have a
light hand with pie-
crust, was established.
After a muster in
Parramatta, Mac-
quarie-street was their
first settled home, and
old St. James’s saw
them twice every Sun-
day standing at atten-
tion down the aisles,
whilst other miserable
sinners took their seats.
A love of confectionery
was discouraged by a
severe birching if other
children gave them a
fistful of lollies through
the railings. The birch
was an item of each
• quarter’s expense, sand-
wiched between the
Epsom salts and the
nightcaps. Sometimes
an heiress happened to
be lost or mislaid, and
search was made
through the Home for
some girl pretty enough
to replace her, when
tradition says she rode
away and became a lor-
dess. Many perfectly-
trained domestic treasures Have been let loose
annually upon distingushed households front this
quaint establishment, though whether the pupil of
recent times was up to the level of her more
carefully-birched predecessor of many years ago is
not known.
* • • »
Objection has again been taken in N.S. W.
to trades-unionist J.’sP. sitting on the Bench in
bush labor cases. If to them, why not to
squatters, and to storekeepers whose interests are
bound up with the squatters ? The honorary J.P.
system is essentially bad. It puts upon the seats
of justice, on occasions, men whose main business
in life is not to be just, but to make a living—
perhaps out of kow-towing to a section of the
community ; and these men, in some respects, can
wield a power greater than a Supreme Court
Judge, for on certain matters their decisions are
absolutely final, and cannot be appealed against
on of law or of fact. Every man who
exercises judicial powers should have no other
business in life but to be judicial, and should be
paid well by the State to keep his mind, as far
as possible, free from all bias, his knees from all
subserviency, his palm from all bribery.
This extraordinary argument is put forward by
Sydney D.T. on the honorary magistrates ques-
tion :
The privilege of adjudicating is now allowed to the
Justice as a quid pro quo. He performs a number of
duties which, but for the institution of honorary magis-
tracy, would have to be attended to by salaried officials,
at a very considerable expense to the State. In return,
he is granted a certain political prestige, displayed'in
his appearance on the bench as a fully empowered magis-
trate.
The difference between this and the Chinese
system of selling a judicial office and allowing the
successful tenderer to make what profit he can
out of the litigants, is only one of degree.
* * » *
Minister Bent’s detailed statement of free-
pass concessions granted by Vic. Railways Dept,
shows that the issue of passes (worth £9) to
“ distinguished visitors ” has averaged 52 per
annum. Every week in the year some incomepoop
from abroad, whose only claim to distinction was
his cheap air of “wealth and standing,” has been
invited to assert his quality by becoming a dead-
head on the railways. This official practice of
greasing the fat porker dates back to the dark
ages of Australian “loyalty” when the casual
arrival of every globe-trotting British bounder
with a hyphen to his name was accepted as a
compliment to the country he was contemptuously
contemplating through his eye-glass. But in his
railway-pass reforms the Minister is inconsistent.
He takes free passes away from the engine drivers,
but not from the ex-Ministers of the Crown (at
least not at present), from the families of M.’sP.,
or from the M.’sP. themselves when not engaged
on parliamentary business.
* * » •
Out of seven cases listed at recent Bendigo
Criminal Sessions, five were offences against
women and children. One lad, a Reformatory
protege, 15 years of age, assaulted his mistress,
and then committed an assault on a girl 11 years
old. He got off with a month’s imprisonment,
and two birchings.
One of the dangers of the “painless-ex-
traction ” method pursued by some dentists was
shown by a Sydney District Court action, the
other day, when a patient recovered £l5 for injury
caused by the use of an imperfectly-sterilised
syringe to inject a cocaine mixture. The “pain-
less-extraction ” method consists in the production
of local anaesthesia by the injection of some form
of cocaine, and has other dangers in addition to
that arising from the usp of dirty instruments;
so the method is rejected by most dentists,
though familiar to all who learn the rudiments
of the business. Nevertheless, it is very
popular among people who don’t know the risks
they are running. The Bulletin’s advice to
people whose teeth are faulty—and that is to prac-
tically everybody—is to avoid extractions as much
as possible, and, when they are absolutely neces-
sary, to take “gas.”
How the dentists do swarm in Australia ! A
country town of moderate size will often have six
of them. In Sydney, a dentist is as frequent as a
publican, and you can see 18 of their brass plates
on one building in a comparatively obscure and
out-of-the-way city street. Some streets are
almost entirely inhabited by the men of teeth.
New Sydney Dental Hospital, to treat the jaws of
the poor, has already eight consulting dental
surgeons, 20 dental surgeons, and 30 assistant
dental surgeons, and “there are many other
applications yet to be dealt with.”
* * * *
This from “ Adipose,” who seems to bean
altruistic person with a Mark Tapley capacity for
cheerfulness :
’From practical experience, can enthusiastically endorse
all “ H.F.” says (4/10/’O2) re the foolish waste of energy in
rigging oneself into a second-rate Sandow. Writer (who
hasn’t the use of his legs, and whose inactivity is there-
fore compulsory) never gets off his chair, goes about 40
inches round the lower chest, has several chins, and only
sees over his cheeks with difficulty. But notwithstanding
these, and the fact that he eats no more in a day than does
the average man at a single meal, for sustained mental
labor he will back himself against any Sandow-person he
knows. As to what harm, physically, may result from
such bodily inactivity, writer can only say that, his
present condition dating from his second year, he
has reached the middle twenties without ever having had
a day’s serious illness in his life. Also, how do Gibbon
and Hume, the historians (not to mention Dumas and his
1200 volumes), stand as bright, particular examples of
fatty degeneration as an aid to mental effort long sus-
tained? Both were vast men, hardly able to move for
their fat. Yet the former lived to 57, and the latter to
65 —time enough in which to give one’s best to the world.
And that’s all one is here for, you’ll find, if j'iju’ll only
think right ; the rest doesn’t matter.
But doesn’t it? The man who merely lives to
“ give his best to the world ” is not in it with the
man who lives to have a good, wholesome time of
it also. Far less than five per cent, of humanity
can hope that their “best” will be of the
slightest use or interest to the world when they
have given it. Why devote a life-time to throwing
water into the ocean ? Physical culture is a good
deal a matter of constitution, but as a general rule
the man who is in good physical condition will do
better work (mental and physical), and have a
happier life than the sedentary person. Of
course, there are exceptions.
* • * *
There were 70 drunks at Sydney Central
Police-court one day last week. The water
famine asserting itself.
Not a word appeared in either Melb.
morning daily about the musical profession’s
presentation of a silver casket and a gorgeous
address to Melba. The reason for this was that
the reporters took the huff at being stowed away
in a gallery at the back of the hall to watch every-
body else kowtowing to the star. Of course, if
it happened to be a lot of fat city auctioneers and
stock-jobbers who were doing the knee-bending,
the pressmen would have been humbly content to
take a back seat and chronicle the proceedings at
great length. The reporter, however, has a notion
that he is just as good as the average long-haired
musician, anyway, and as the musician is sort of
dependent upon the crumbs of advt., instead of
wielding the financial influence of the “Going,
going, gone ” person, the papers “chuck off” at
him. The journals on this occasion backed up their
representatives with signal enthusiasm.
The Eddy Orphanage Bill goes to a select
committee in N.S.W., and looks as if it will have
some difficulty in getting out alive ; £5OOO is cer-
tainly not enough to start such an institution
with. The railway employees contributed prac-
tically nothing to the foundation.
« » * *
At Ballarat, when circus missionaries
Torrey and Alexander left, according to a daily
paper—
Both gentlemen were besieged by excited young
women. Mr. Alexander, as he was leaving the carriage,
had some difficulty in making his way along the platform
to join Dr. Torrey, who addressed the assemblage from
the steps of the overhead bridge.
There will be something more heard of this—in
the police - courts. When young women get
excited with the epileptic brand of religion it' is
always so.
« * * •
Some of the Sydney suburban councils
still energetically collect the street-watering rate,
though the streets have not been watered for
months past. It is pretty close to exacting money
by false pretences.
Th* mildewed
church, or pro-cathe-
dral, of St. James’ in
Little Collins - street,
Melb., has just had a
diamond jubilee ser-
vice, whereat Dean
Vance sketched the
history of the oldest
tabernacle in Victoria.
The foundation stone
was laid on Nov. _ 9,
1839, and the building
was opened Oct. 2,
1842. The site of St.
James’ was originally
made holy, more or
less, by a rough shanty,
where the first white
native of Victoria
played the name-part
in a christening per-
formance. Subsequent-
ly the Government
granted five acres of
land for a church en-
dowment, and the in-
come from this sancti-
fied freehold property
is now, as Canon Vance
feelingly remarked, a
''•'lnable assistance to
tour Melb. dioceses.
But the Canon didn’t
explain how that in-
come is allotted. As a
matter of fact, the rot-
ten old church of St.
James’ has long been a
monument of clerical
jobbery and religious
humbug, like the
ancient parish churches
in the rich warehoused
quarters of London
city. A cynical stranger
may peep into St.
James’ and behold two
parsons conducting a
week-night service be-
fore a congregation of
one sinner, exclusive of
the verger, who is pre-
sumably somewhere
around. And Canon
Vance draws £lOOO a
year as “boss” of this
decayed show. St.
ought to be
pulled 'down (a de-
consecration service,
properly advertised,
would provide senti-
mental entertainment
for many old Melbourne identities), and then the
land could be leased for business purposes, the
neighborhood being a popular “ pitch ” for whisky
and grocery importers. Bishop Goe favored this
proposal.
From London Daily Nbws :
During his westward trip the King visited Portland
prison, where the convicts recognised him, and gave him
a ringing cheer. Their loyalty was rewarded with an
extra piece of pudding and plenty of treacle.
The reward of “loyalty”—an extra piece of
pudding and plenty of treacle ! Convicts or poli-
tics—it’s all the same.
“ Robt. A.” re Queensland “ Tammany ” :
The poor man’s strait is the rich man’s opportunity;
hence it is only natural that the effects of the drought
and the “ whipping of the cat,” consequent on the reckless
expenditure during the Jingo fever, should lead to the
formation of “ trusts,” which still further accentuate the
ghastly attempts to make £1 do the work of £2. Certain
crates of bananas, for instance, were recently “ ringed ”
up from 30s. to £2 10s., and but for the exposure in our
one daily paper, this staple cheap fruit would jjave re-
mained at that prohibitive price. Still more recently
has this journal exposed the medico-ethical “ combine ”
whereby medical men attached to Associated Friendly
Societies were coerced until broken in spirit and ruined
in pocket. Next, the bakers’ “ trust ” was challenged
and an exposure made of its tactics in increasing the 21b.
loaf from 2d. to 3d. on a falling flour-market, and
threatening a further rise of £d. now that flour is station-
ary. “Dressed” timber, again is at a higher price than
for the past 17 years—a fact due to a “ ring ” organ-
ised ostensibly—(l) “for export-trade”—(there’s none!)
—and (2) to compel architects to use a certain kind of
timber. The biggest “show-up,” however, was that of
the meat “ ring ” as regards the pressure it brings to bear
on the “ small ” man who dares to undersell. At present
chops are “ ringed ” up to Bd. per lb., rump steak to Bd.,
fillet to 9d., and suet to lOd. The cost of the animal is
only 3Jd. per lb., so that the slaughtering and distribu-
tion is responsible for more than the breeding and
droving. One experienced producer asserts that not the
slightest benefit has accrued to his class from the in-
creased price. Again, therefore, the middleman “ scoops
the pool.”
THE
NEW
ORDER
\ (For THE. BUUL£Ti/y) 7f
tike wamlT ©f t
VVD&k&d msvb' _ y
Wtu<n> pM&d IS® I
fcnur , |
mcokfe tt*em\pTf&&<mfe. (L
I tffc<S>W COT&'cd
©f h<o>mbc. < && .swe&t <cmdl C^K
rcorfe,
©fvmn>s}&7, ©» n d Ghcmoaufe-, <nmdl
®fl
Onixd To'9^f> / cwd feafksF^,
\ cnmd Ifee, laß©,
BlilffTßW S|ft€4f chv aOflsfegTf
S <ct «4, ? t
Owd
W 7 tv,, . WWt i«>, ...
Vv ®<ulHdi jgav.g (f^cfif^g.ii'Sfolfe..*l-
-
S.S.
WHEN MELBA SINGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Melba sings her sweetest lay
The world is bright that erst was gray ;
A glad surprise
Lights weary eyes:
The woman brings
A charm to cozen cares away,
And we forget
The vain regret,
The sighs, the tears of yesterday.
When Melba sings.
The mellow music of her song
Makes tirbd hearts beat quick and strong.
And cynics smile
For joy the while,
And dead love springs
To life again. The list’ning throng
Are “ feeling good ” ;
They sit subdued,
With lips apart, for just as long
As Melba sings.


Dress fAßßies
Are Stocked by the
Leading Drapers.
™ MAR kTHE varnished board
A SET OF TEETH ONE GUINEA
Beautiful and Lifelike in Appearance and Guaranteed Perfect Fit. Absolutely Painless
Extractions and Stoppings Guaranteed.
Special Attention Given to Regulating Children’s Teeth.
Mr. J. SPENCER NOLAN, R. 9.5., Surgeon Dentist, 43 Oxfo d -st. Sydney
Sold by all Drapers and Hosiers.
KNEIPP LINEN
UNDERWEAR
Porous. Cool. Clean. Unshrinkable.
Recommended by Medical Profession.
Prevents Prickly Heat, Eczema,
Allows the Body to Breathe.
J “BE SURE IT’S \
CHARLES^
HEIDSIECK
FACILE PRIIMCEPS.
SEMPER IDEM.
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, October 14, 1902.
My Dear Arini.—
“Oh, for a fist to push a fancy quill” on the
subject of Melba—her voice, her appearance, and
her platform clothes ! A better gowned or more
fashionable or numerous audience never crowded
Sydney Town Hall than that which faced Melba
at her first concert in Sydney. There were some
shockingly-dressed heads and bodies, but these
were chiefly in the guinea seats. Melba appeared
graceful, smiling, very handsome, at the end of
the first part of the programme; and the audi-
ence received her much as a collection of stalag-
mites would. There was a perfunctory hand-clap
in the vice-regal patch, and here and there in the
hall, but the stalagmites waited for her to justify
the praise that had been blown in all men’s faces
with the common air for so many years. She
justified, even with Handel’s “Sweet Bird.” Her
pure light soprano rippled and purled like laughing
water ; it rose in silver shafts of sound as of bird
answering bird, and the audience came to life, and
proved its possession of musicianly ears and
palms—especially palms. Melba’s voice has a
girlish freshness, which I had not looked for after
so much hard work—the youthfulness you find in
Mendelssohn’s Spring Song.
Melba’s platform-appearance is most attractive.
Her tall, fine figure, almost slender, was clad in a
clinging ivory Princess gown of Mechlin lace over
faint-rose chiffon, The corsage was embroidered
with raised pink roses, her hair, dressed low on
the neck, was clasped with a diamond comb,
which emphasised itself whenever Madame
turned to bow to the audience behind her, for the
platform was packed right back up to the organ
pipes. Her smile, and manner of acknowledging
: the audience’s homage, are in the front rank of
charm ; in fact, I thought Melba even finer than
her voice—if that were possible.
A big section of the audience at Melba’s first
concert got its feet very wet in the tremendous
storm that broke over Sydney on Saturday night.
The dressing-room steamed like a laundry. A
dense pack of people waited on the front steps of
the T.H. to see the star get into her carriage. One
of the crowd was a girl with a fluffed-out mass of
hair. Presently she said to her friends : “There’s
such a smell of burning hair”; they had noticed
it also, and there was a great turning of heads to
see who had brought a tongs and spirit-lamp with
her. The speaker craned her head entirely round,
and it was discovered that it was her Own coiffure
which was smouldering, set on fire by a man’s
cigar. *
Friday (to-morrow) the Mayoress of Sydney,
Mrs Tom Hughes, will be “at home ” at the Town
Hall, to meet Madame Melba. Invitations have
been issued, and a great and gorgeous crowd is
expected to roll up and trample upon its own
draperies, and gather impressions of Melba as she
is off the stage. @
Their Exes, the Rawsons unveiled portraits of
King Ned and Queen Alexandra at the Royal
Naval House, Sydney, last week. The pictures
are large, framed in oak, and signed. The King’s
signature is absolutely anything you like to read
it. If his face wasn’t above it no cryptographist
could make affidavit as to its being Edward R.
and I. The Quoen’s is a beautiful picture—
chiffony draperies and the usual curly wig. It
looks at least 20 years younger than a portrait of
her taken 20 years ago, which stands on the
mantelpiece in the same room of the same Royal
Naval House.
On Tuesday, Lady Rawson unveiled a medallion
portrait of the late matron, Miss Taplin, at the
Infants’ Home at Ash field.
Mr. Rowe, the State Governor’s private secre-
tary, who is making a very slow recovery from
his attack of typhoid-pneumonia, will probably
go to Bathurst to finish his cure. Sir H. Rawson’s
private visit to the City of the Plain (people) was
to secure a suitable curing spot for Mr. Rowe.
A new terror has crept into the life of the
Sydney electric tram-tripper; the terror of the
firl who flirts with the driver of the car, distracts
is attention, says to him “Oh, gar on,” and
causes him to “gar on” and run down funeral
processions, or anything else that is on the track.
An alderman (probably aged about 70, and with
all the giddy glow out of his eyes) has brought
the matter under the notice of a Mayor of a
Sydney municipality, and the Mayor has pro-
mised to see the Railway Commissioners. Woman
is undoubtedly a dangerous human as well as a
ministering angel. Women-passengers caused
the driver of a car to run down the carriage
of the President of the U.S.A., and give him a
bad knee and kill one of his staff. A woman’s
birthday party was the primary cause of a mail-
boat recently going on the rocks. Now woman is
a danger to the Railway Commissioners when she
jumps off the travelling tram (and sues for
damages), but a bigger danger when she sits
giggling on. the driver’s platform dressed in a
sailor hat with a big, brass initial pin in it, a pink
blouse with large blue choux, a tight-fitting,
three-quarter lustre skirt, cotton openwork
stockings, burst tan shoes, a rolled-gold ring or
two, a Chinese glass bangle, and long, water-curl
tendrils about her face. How can the driver help
running down even a Commissioner when such
damsels are asking him how he spells his Christian
name ! The Corns, may have to settle the matter
by abolishing the platform and placing the driver
in a closed cage, from which he can only see the
street in front of him.
A M.L. girl, Miss Ada Sievwright, who was
studying music in London, has been married
there (the cable says) to a Mr. J. H. Davis, of
New York, a reputed millionaire. Miss S. is a
nice-looking girl, well-known in Dunedin; her
father was a solicitor of that city, and once in
partnership with Chief-Justice Stout. Most Ameri-
cans are “reputed” millionaires. In America a
millionaire only needs to own 1,000, OOOdols., which
is £200,000 English money ; so it’s fairly easy.
Some of the best dressing, especially under-
skirting, Sydney has seen, is in “The Messenger
Boy.” When Lillian Digges puts her No. 1 feet
and Italian-greyhound legs into a boy’s garments,
she looks about nine years old. One of the finest
floral trophies ever seen in the Palace was the
harp of pink roses handed up to Elsie Moore in
recognition of her pretty squeaking of the song
“ Maisie.”
Sherlock Hastings, his melancholia, his pallor,
his beautiful black wavy hair, and the secret
sorrow that has preyed on his lean olive cheek and
worked a deep furrow on that cheek only, moves
at the Royal (Sydney) like a great natural force,
such as an earthquake. No human ingenuity need
try any criminal tricks on the man with the
deadly calm, gunboat shoes, and the morphia
habit. Sherlock Hastings is, in one act, dis-
covered sitting on a cushion on the floor, wearing
a red dressing-gown, as he glances over magazines
and puffs, puffs, puffs at his pipe or cigarette. A
violin and bow are by his side, and all the while he
knows what sparrows fall to the ground without,
and which buttons drop from his friend’s waistcoat.
There have been several girl theatre-parties at
each performance, and when Cuyler Holmes wasn’t
on they talked an date chocolates, and, when he was,
their eyes assumed a ping-pong stare, and when,
at the last, he decided to love a woman and live,
instead of dying to his own violin accompaniment,
some of the parties wept—whether with grief or
joy not known. Miss Mabel Lane, as the hand-
some, wicked woman, Madge Larrabee, covers
her wickedness with some good clothes.
Men laugfh and riot till the feast is o’er
Then conies the reckoning, and they laugh no more.
The following melancholy circular now circu-
lates in Sydney :
Dear Sir, —Owing to the Premier failing to keep his
promise with respect to refunding the amount expended
by the committee on street decorations (for the Royal
reception), we are unfortunately faced with a deficit of
£274.
This amount has to be made good by members of the
committee.
The members of the Finance Committee have each
donated £25, and other members have given amounts
down to £5.
As it is imperative the matter should be closed up
forthwith, I should be glad to have your contribution.
If you want any details of the matter, either Mr. Sar-
good'or I can furnish them to you at any time. Awaiting
your reply, I am, yours faithfully.
(Sgd.) Wm. Trotter.
Mr. Julian Ashton, the well-known artist, has
married Miss Edna Morley, a Sydney resident.
Mr. Ashton’s first wife, who died nearly two
years ago, was well known in journalistic circles.
The present Mrs. Ashton is a large, dark, creole-
looking young lady, with, report says, a tendency
to picture-making.
Fewer persons now travelling on N.S.W. rail-
ways carry with them Bath buns, bottle of cold
tea, and packages of bananas, for the Commis-
sioners have instituted a shilling table at the
refreshment rooms. The 2s. table remains for
those with larger purses and appetites.
Brisbane is just now sympathising with Gov.
Chermside and his wife over the loss of their first-
born ; the little life flickered out at birth.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“The Federal Parliament opened with a
deafening blare of bugles and wealth of pageant.
It prorogued on Friday with little more than a
suburban milk-and-water vendor’s trumpet note.
Subsequently there was a violent scramble to a
Federal Tea Party at Lady Hutton’s. A military
and political element reigned at the ‘Grange,’ and
the golden-haired dame hosted it smilingly, plea-
santly, wittily. For grace she easily heads society,
and with her face and fortune does wonders. It
is hard to say how terrible a time hubby would
have were it not for his charming wife.
“There was a fierce feminine rush for Senate
seats at the close of the season, or is it session ?
The whispering in the galleries and the rustle of
skirts at last irritated big, plain Tom Playford,
who remarked to a fellow-member in a Hibernian
sotto voce, ‘There ought to be a sessional order
against the admittance of women-folk. See the
effect of to-night’s gathering. You can’t get the
married fools off their feet.’
“It appears that Melba has to guard her-
self against all manner of cheap nobodies who
try to crowd into her dressing-room and about her
exit doors, and at her third Melb. concert this
precaution accounted for the drollest of scenes.
A certain dignitary and his wife are always
to the fore in battling through all kinds of
door-keepers, usually by the aid of tips. On this
occasion the ponderous identity came through the
Mayor’s private quarters from the balcony end of
the Town Hall, and found a watch-dog hanging
on to his door who was beyond tip. The attendant
hung on like grim death, but the intruder proved
the stronger of the two. So the attendant sud-
denly let his end of the door go, with the result
that the dignitary fell sprawling on the ground,
with a bump on the back of his head as a souvenir.
His spouse stepped over his prostrate body,
evaded the attendant, and succeeded in gaining
the much-coveted audience with Melba; her
troubles about Popper!
“ Marshall Hall, the terrible—who, that heard
it, can ever forget the wildly exuberant, extrava-
gant, passionate tornado of words that he swept
over Melba’s head at the Conservatorium kow-
tow ? It was a hurricane of emotion. His long,
lean body was buttoned up closely in a blue sac
suit; his loose, lank locks wore a dishevelled look.
There was a hot passion in his face. He was at a
dizzy pitch of excitement. The wild panegyric
was delivered between brief, quick gasps. The
black, shaggy brows lowered and lifted all the
time, like mental pedals. The eyes shot up looks
every now and then at the electrified object of
adoration. Melba was palpably nervous, not
quite sure whether to smile or give serious atten-
tion. She was faced by an educated Dan O’Con-
nor. Occasionally, a demure shake of the head
negatived a too-tropical compliment. Heaven
only knows what the keen, clever woman thought
of it all! The students who were gathered around
wore expressions of solemn joy. Their master’s
genius subdued them quite. The mighty man
at last made a long bow to Melba, gave one of his
Titanic laughs, and brought his wild Pegasus to a
halt. The Star was silent. And no wonder.
“ Despite all the talk about Melba and her old
chums, her private entertaining was confined to
the very Nicest. Three great dinners helped to
make things merry and delightful for immediate
relatives and a few 22-carat guests; Old friends
and all the once-or-twice-removed cousins were
sent tickets for the concerts, where they had the
picked seats in the hall. Melba seems to have had
a Better-Not-Wally to advise her in these delicate
distinctions.
“At the Mayoral reception in Melba’s honor,
Mayoress Gillott, new to her land legs, received
the full flood of guests with a tired air, despite the
orthodox greeting smile. His Worship, on the
other hand, showed how he had been licked into
shape socially, and tried his hand and tongue at a
hundred high-grade graces.
“An ogre in gold lace was the first to seek a
flower from Melba’s trophy at the Gillott spree.
After that the tide set in, and Melba tore her
glove in a frantic effort to give the flowers and get
rid of the rush. In the end, she dragged the torn
kid off, and, with a pair of handy scissors, nipped
off the wired Iceland poppies. Then she pleaded
honest fatigue, and the trusty Musgrove, with
Rupert Clarke in tow, gripped the star’s arm and
sent heralds ahead to clear the way. A large
foreigner stood on the illustrious one’s train. She
stood still and waited. The lethargic person
apologised, and made a profound bow, but forgot
to move. ‘ You’re still on it! ’ said Melba, laconic-
ally, and then the hoof was raised, and the pro-
cession moved on.
Melba, at this Mayoral ‘crush,’ had a decided
look of Mdme. Dreyfus. Our diva has certainly
something Semitic in her face. Melba’s Frenchi-
ness she probably owes to her Parisienne modiste.
Gallic art was conspicuous in the creation of
creamy tulle over pale-blue silk, worn by her.
Every detail of the toilette cunningly added to
the wearer’s apparent height and slimness. The
long French waist, the sequins running to narrow
points down the skirt, the ‘ handkerchief sleeves,’
falling scarfwise over the elbow, even the hair in
a long ‘figure of eight’ coil, all drew one’s eye
downward, and suggested length, not breadth.
Her coiffure was a blend of old Greece and
modern Paris ; a chaplet of green leaves crowned
the smooth dark hair in classic style, while a small
diamond comb topped the knot at the back.
“The Cup carnival is not going to see the
squattocracy in any special Solomon glory this
year of drought. Leading drapers have given
their‘hands’ holidays, an unprecedented slump
in the stitching market having set in. What
with the dry season and other things, the dressy
class have had their pockets drained. ‘ The
squatters always made things brisk for trade at
Cup-time,’said one dress oracle, ‘but, this year,
not 20 per cent, of the orders have come to us, and
we are giving workers a “ vacation," instead of
taking on fresh hands.’
“Weather or retrenchment affected the Caul-
field Guineas attendance on Saturday, and the
general outfitting. Few fashion - plates were
abroad. But oddities abounded. An eminent
golfer not long from the Big Smoke tricked forth
her ample form in a Crimean-shirt costume.
Another she-tourist wore slate-grey, with a slate-
grey complexion. A stout little party, heading
Melbourne’s richest, dressed up to her damson-
plum cheeks with an indigo-blue gown of great
gorgeousness. One luminous turn-out, blazing
with a full battery of electrical silver, struck a
garish note. Trim, taut, and built up to the day’s
barometer was Mrs. Stewart M‘Arthur’s black
voile, an emerald silk gamp, and emerald mil-
linery lending an honorable mention to the
outfit. Trainer Macdonald and his new bride
were en suite— in all grey. Dunky Gillies,
bell - topper over his ears, haunted certain
feminine parties on the Stand. Perhaps the
State Speaker-elect will have a partner this
year, after all. Dunky’s getting notions matri-
monially, they say. Everybody, almost, comes to
mates some day.
“Vice-regal parties played the amiable at
Saturday’s meeting. Lady Tennyson was rigged
in sapphire-blue with lace ‘motifs’makingmusical
margins _on her wide collar. Next door, the
State Vice-Regals made merry. They paid a
‘command’ visit to the first-class V.R. depart-
ment. Lady Silverlocks looked bright and quite
smart in a magpie blend. The little dove of the
household was also in a spruce magpie mixture
with gold embroidery. Gov. Clarke’s tie was an
eyesore. It was a soft silk washed one, scarfed
baggily.
“ How to grow old elegantly was the lesson to
be learnt from the radiant appearance of Judge
'Hartley Williams and his upstanding dame at the
Guineas. The bench, salon and pulpit philoso-
pher was the very pink of white-haired perfection.
None of the young dandies was as dapper as he,
none so bright-eyed, so rose-cheeked. And his
canary gloves won the cake by a shade. Nor did
any of the other swagger women boast a figure
to come within measureable distance of Lady
Williams, in white silk and voile gown with
ginger laces ruffling about the shoulders.
“The straight-front corset makes its wearer
look utterly unlike a woman ; but, as the genial
Schopenhauer remarked, ‘women are ugly, un-
built creatures at best, and any change in their
figure must be for the better ! ’
“ The elections are over, and men sigh dismally
as they allege reasons for the unlooked-for rejec-
tion of tried and trusted patriots. One of these
victims, who represented a country district, traces
his fall to his having accidentally smashed a clutch
of pure Wyandotte eggs, entrusted to his care by
a constituent. Another very high Parliamentary
personage, now down, had been in the habit for
years, one hears, of choosing in the city, millinery,
etc., for the ladies of his rural electorate, accord-
ing to directions and funds supplied by the country
mice. But the shopper is growing"old, and his
tastes are out-of-date. So he has had to give
place to a younger man with a more up-to-date
idea in ribbons and feathers.
“Artist Nerli has been showing, in Mr.
Summers’ studio, a life-size portrait, in oils, of
Dr. Marshall, of the Scots’ Church. It is a good
likeness of the thoughtful-looking Presbyterian,
but the good doctor, ye ken, looks oddly out of
place among all the marble nymphs and undraped
little chubby cupids that smilingly surround his
picture.
“ Melbourne loses a picturesque figure : Father
Kantoupolos—the handsomest Greek we have
ever had in this part of the world —now
returns to Jerusalem. The Greek flock and
the refined Raphael-like Father have fallen
out over some monetary questions, and the faith-
ful, regarding their shepherd as only a spiritual
guide, do not like his interference (well-meaning
though it be) in their temporal affairs. Hence
the tear-away. Father Kantoupolos’ presence at
a State function has always been looked upon as
highly ornamental. The high, white brow, the
aquiline nose, the gazelle eyes, the olive skin, and
fine silky pointed beard made a beautiful picture
head. Then there were the black, graceful robes
of his order, the light figure, the soft movements.
All the girls adored in the distance, and romanced
about the Raphael priest.
“The two sons of the late John Wallace
boasted two lovely wives in the crowded first-night
‘ Toreador ’ audience. One Mrs. Wallace is
large, handsome, and of the magnolia-flower type
of beauty. The other is tall, fair, substantial,
shapely, and of the arum lily order. Both young
matrons dress superbly. The Japanese theatre-
cloak made its summer debut that night. Two
smart women flourished the new order of shoulder
cover, a light, unlined Japanese silk, of jacket
shape, the sleeves belling from the elbow. Wreaths
of roses, marguerites and vine-leaves might have
been seen in many heads of hair.
“A billed baronet—Sir Edward Mackenzie —
drew a packed house to some tableaux out
Essendon way t’other night. That suburb seldom
sees a baronet, and much interest attached to a
special tableau in which the noble bearer of the
noble title was to appear in a state of suspense
standing over ‘ A Sleeping Beauty.’ It turned
out to be a very giddy tableau, and another frisky
one was ‘The Judgment of Paris,’ when three
sweet sirens ogled the beauteous baronet for the
apple. This was followed by a moral tonic in the
form of ‘O Divine Redeemer,’ sung by a devout
contralto.
“Sharp, clear, strong, frosty, was Miss Vida
Goldstein when the Athenaeum platform held her-
self and a little grey gentleman from Sydney, a
Mr. Gandon, in debate. S’MacEacharn, shining
with rich respectability and scented soap, umpired
the play. Daintily-dressed Miss Vida rattled off
her shots with a dispatch that held the audience
breathless. With hands and knees visibly vibrato,
Mr. Gandon started to plead his anti-cause. But
male barrackers at the back of the hall bombarded
the grey little man with questions, and the
whole of his allotted time was taken up with
a hesitating return fire. A poor debater,
and unprepared for interruption, he was suddenly
brought to his seat by the umpire’s announcement
of ‘time.’ Then Miss Goldstein, sharper, clearer,
colder, frostier than before, dealt with her
opponent’s feebly-put case, and absolutely sat on
him, and snuffed his light. She grows daily less
attractive in the feminine sense, but more admir-
able from a platform standpoint.
“ The women at that Suffrage joust badly
wanted to know all the evil of Mary Wollstone-
craft’s tenets, hinted at in shocked and startled
tones by Mr. Gandon. ‘ Does the audience know
what this infamous woman taught ? 5 The audience
sat up in its collective chair, thirsting for the
teachings of poet Shelley’s best girl. ‘Do they know
who she was, what her theories amounted to ? ’ the
husky little man asked indignantly. ‘ Then I’ll
tell them.’ The audience was in a state of high
curiosity. Their expectant air alarmed the
speaker, and he said in a low tone of disgust,
‘ No, I couldn’t! ’ The audience collapsed, disap-
pointed. No wonder only a dozen hands voted
for him at the crisis.
“There is a sudden and inexplicable outbreak
of baby-adoption by Sassiety dames. The other
day a leading matron, married to a N.S.W.
squatter for many years, landed from a Conti-
nental jaunt with a two months’ infant in her arms.
‘l’ve bought a baby,’said the dame, buoyantly.
It was a simple, every-day child. News also
reaches Melbourne of the adoption of another
baby in Paris by a very wealthy Western
squatteress. Are babies coming into vogue again 1
And must they be simply adopted ?
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.
Sundry Maoriland Irishmen are wroth
with Premier Seddon, in that, though he made a
tour of Ireland, he never once uttered a sympa-
thetic word for the cause of self-government, and
was the guest of some of the most obnoxious
landlords. Whereat a Bulletin correspondent
offers to lay odds that when Seddon lands he will
make sympathetic reference to “dear old Ire-
land,” followed by a tribute to Irish hospitality
and concluding something like this : “ They want
our land policy there to settle the people on the
land.” This will evoke sundry “ hears, hears,”
and at the ensuing banquet Seddon will sing
“ The Wearin’ of the Green.” Which will about
fix things for the elections.
A graceful form and well moulded bust
are essential to perfect beauty. Lacte, the
wonderful “Skin Food” is nature’s remedy for
giving back those essentials when lost through
sickness or action of time, and for supplying them
when constitutionally deficient. It fills all hollows,
develops and gives a charming roundness to neck
and arms. Price 7s. 6d. per jar, post Bs. 3d.
Westall Guest, Toilet Specialist to the Gov.-
General, 229 Bourke-street, Melbourne.


AN/EMIA.
You can always tell anaemic men and women.
They’re pale, weak and languid. They have backaches and headaches.
They can’t eat—or they can’t digest what little they do eat.
Their unstrung nerves kill sleep—their temper is irritable—their vitality vanishes.
And it all comes from poor blood and unstrung nerves.
Banish anaemia at once by enriching your blood and toning up your nerves with
Dr. Williams pink pills for pale people.
They bring good appetite, sound sleep, bright spirits, and perfect health.
They’re death to all debility.
“My blood grew watery,” says Miss F. Rea, Jasper’s Brush. “My appetite failed. I was so weak
that I often fainted. Despite medical treatment I grew thinner and weaker. Two boxes of Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills gave me an appetite and strengthened me. Six boxes cured me.”
Sold by retailers and by the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney, 2s. 9d. per box, six boxes 15s. 3d. post free.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
It is announced that parson Tremayne
Dunstan is coming back to Sydney to explain
everything.
After 42 years’ experience of political life
in Victoria, Duncan Gillies, at the late election,
had his first walk-over.
On 24t.h Oct., King Edward will, it is
cabled, hold at Buckingham Palace the largest
investiture of honors on record. Honors are very
easy, nowadays.
Mrs. Robert Shield ( nee Rebecca Cook),
who died at Molong the other day, claimed to be
a grand-niece of Captain Cook, and the claim was
well supported. She died at 84.
T. Bent is now quite a dude, and swaggers
in a frock coat (artfully cut to disguise his drop-
chest) and the glossiest of Paris hats. The Argus
rejoices with a holy joy over the Minister’s
“ improved appearance.”
Alleged by an indignant Federal member
that in N.S.W. Mounted Bifles there is one officer
for every three privates. This should be looked
to at once. Quite a number of the officers have
an intelligence which is barely equal to looking
after two privates.
Frank Anstey, one of the ablest writers
and speakers in the Vic. Labor movement, easily
topped the poll for E. Bourke Boroughs. The
vote was the largest ever reoorded in any Vic.
election. The electorate is the largest in the
State, having over 10,000 on the rolls.
Ethel Turner, on the word of her pub-
lishers, is “ the most widely read of any Australian
writer.” Since 1894, when-“ Seven Little Aus-
tralians” was printed, nearly 250,000 Ethel Turner
books have been sold, and their merit has been
recognised by a large edition in the Dutch
language.
Sandow asserts that his little Nibs of
Wales (nee Duke of York) is a muscular personage
with a “beautiful back,” as the result of follow-
ing the System. The Yorklet certainly had a
pltysical culture compartment fitted up for him on
the Ophir, but he probably used it for smoking
purposes.
F. C. Mason, ousted from Vic. Speaker-
ship is, like, N.S.W. Speaker McCourb, a North
•f Ireland man. Mason began his Victorian
career by defeating the political heavyweight
Archibald Michie; at that time he was the
youngest member to claim a seat. He was
originally a schoolmaster.
The fixed blush which adorns Premier
Irvine’s face is an apt motto, or figurehead, or
danger-signal, or coat-of-arms, or something for a
Government which, by reason of its skilfully-
eoncocted Factories Act catastrophe and its in-
clusion of Bent, has every reason to be perpetually
ashamed of itself.
MeIb._ARGUS on Labor leader J. C. Wat-
son and hie influence on Federal legislation :
The supreme fact is the dominating- personality of Mr.
Watson. He has suggested and shaped most of the legis-
lation ; he has governed the Government; parties and
Houses, sometimes reluctantly, but with a sense of his
irresistible power, have done his will.
“ET TU, BRUTE!”
Dramatis Personae.
Brutus... ...Editor Howard Willoughby.
Gcesar ... ... Civil Servant.
“There is no denying the financial trouble. It has to
be met, and the public servants cannot fairly claim that
they should escape scot free.”— ARGUS.
Harness again offered to Duncan Gillies,
the Glasgovvite. He has been nearly half a
century in Australia and most of that time draw-
ing screw from tlie State, and brazenly arguing
that men should be self-reliant, strike out for
themselves and wait on no Government. Duncan
drew state pay before Berry pocketed a Ministerial
shilling.
Died, the other week, an old Melbourne
identity in Edward Duckett, who started business
as a farrier, in Bourke-st., in 1849. Duckett and
John Pascoe Fawkner built the first hansom cab
Melbourne ever saw, and, having gained much
profit and renown by that pioneer vehicle, the
former expanded into an ironmonger and lived
happily ever afterwards.
The man who was sentenced for threaten-
ing to shoot M.L. acting-Premier Ward,
and who was afterwards released on condition
that he left the State, has just returned to M.L.
with the avowed intention of contesting a seat in
Parliament. In granting pardon, M.L. Govt,
overlooked the small matter of mentioning the
duration of his absence, so the man returns, and a
flabbergasted Cabinet can only swear.
Newspaper advance paragraph :
There is some probability that the Federal Government’s
representative at the Great Durbar at Delhi, at which the
King is to be proclaimed Emperor of India, will be Mr.
Malcolm M'Eacharn.
It is a poor sort of bone for a gilded potentate
who aspired to the High Commissionership, but
it is a bone. And it is about “upto ” the Sydney
Burdekin of Victoria to make a splash among
niggers.
Colonel Stuart, late acting-Commandant
•f the S.A. military forces, who is retiring on a
gratuity, is believed to have been unpopular with
Major-Gen. Hutton because he gave information
to the press on matters which the public had a
right to know of but the administration wished to
keep secret. Lieut.-Col. Lyster (the Drayton
Grange hero), who tills Stuart’s place, is endeavor-
ing to win promotion by holding his tongue very
- teadfastly.
THE SANDOW CRAZE.
BRRFY LADY: “I could measure with ’im any
day, but I wouldn’t be so indecent.”
Mr. Michael Scobie, the Maitland cen-
tenarian, whose portrait appears in this issue, cele-
brated his hundredth birthday, Oct. 3. Mr.
Scobie was born in Stirlingshire, Scotland, 3rd
Oct., 1802, and left for Australia with his family
in June, 1839. After a short stay in Sydney he
settled -down on property in Maitland district,
where he at present resides. Mr. Scobie enjoys
fairly good health, and his eyesight is good. He
does not smoke, and is a total abstainer.
David Syme is now quite a social butterfly
in Melbourne, and maybe seen hobnobbing with
“society ”at many a “function.” Which, possi-
bly, accounts for the idiocy of the remark in his
paper that in the Federal Parliament “ there was
a boisterousness and want of manners in the
N.S.W. members that grated on the finer feelings
of the representatives of other States.” In the
days when David used not to be a “dainty
affettuoso,” the Age was a better democrat.
At a recent sale of old books, documents,
&c., in Melbourne, aparchment, that was expected
to run up to a big sum, was finally knocked down for
a miserable 3s. This was a fan-simile copy of the
address presented by colonists of 25 years’ stand-
ing to Alfred of Edinburgh when this country
suffered his visitation. In the long list of
pioneers were the names of Ed. Henty, Francis
Henty, ’34 ; John Pascoe Fawkner, ’35 ; all these,
and the loyal associations to boot, went for 3s.
The blessed Yic. Reform League has lost
its perky and indefatigable secretary, Gr. D. Meu-
dell. Little G.D.M., in his first flush of satis-
faction at the League’s election “ triumphs,” wrote
to old Jock MTntyre gloating over the defeat of
that distressed ancient and vowing to work with-
out ceasing to keep him out of Parliament ever-
more. Whereupon other members of the League
executive disowned all sympathy with Meudell’s
crow, and the bantam sec. sent in his resignation.
Mr. W. J. Sowden, editor of S. A. Register,
was a prominent feature of last Anglican' Church
Congress in Adelaide with some goody-goody
views on the church and the press. He would
have advanced the cause of justice and truth much
more had he stayed in his office and kept out of
the Register this heading (Oct. 2) re Victorian
elections: “Defeat of the Victorian Socialist. ”
As a matter of fact the Vic. Labor Party (untruth-
fully described as “Socialists”) won three
additional seats at the contest.
Considering the number of miners in Vic.
how rarely does a man from underground seek a
softer “pitch” in that State’s Parliament! Not
one offered himself the other day for the Ballarat,
Bendigo, Castlemaine, Clunes, Gippsland, and
Ararat sea.ts. In fact, there were altogether only
two candidates who called themselves miners.
Stawell turned dog on one of them, and Dunolly
on the other. In N.S.W., on the other hand, at
least a dozen men have gone straight from the
mine to Parliament, and are still there, and, in
proportion, still more in Queensland.
They tell this story of a military officer at
a parade. He is apparently in the sweetest
of tempers and discusses mildly the new
drill-book with an instructor: “Very good
book, Mr. So-and-So, very good book indeed.
I practically wrote it myself 25 years ago.
Colonel Blank is a personal friend of mine
and knows my views. He has embodied
them in the book. . . Carry on, Mr. So-
and-So. ” Mr. So-and-So_ carries on. Ihe
officer, suddenly changing his position,
“ D , d , d , d ,
&c. That is not the way to
do that movement, Mr. So-
and-So. I won’t have it
done that way. D ,
d , d ,” &c. The
instructor : “But,
begging your pardon,
sir, the book lays it
down, sir, that it
must be done in that
way, sir, and no
other, sir! ” The
officer (with empha-
sis): “Well, d
the book! ”
Edward Holds-
worth Sugden, mas-
ter of Queen’s, the
Wesleyan denomi-
national college of
the Melbourne Uni-
versity, is a versa-
tile don. He is a
classical scholar,
local authority on
English literature
(in which he has been
lecturing at the Uni-
versity since Alexan-
der Sutherland’s
death) a student and
lecturer on Assyrio-
logy, Egyptology, and
the corpses of other
dead ’ologies, and a
music-enthusiast, who plays in a heavenly fashion
on the ’cello. He has made the instrument moan
beautifully under Marshall Hall’s baton. He
stood by Marshall Hall during the famous heresy-
hunt, on which account the Wesleyans have
cherished a distrust for him ever since. They
suspect him of having a soul more than half-an-
inch high, which is the regulation denominational
size.
Premier Seddon made no reference to his
Ministerial colleagues in any one of his speeches
in England. He mentioned the late John
Mackenzie twice, but that was all. Speaking at
his native place, St. Helen’s, Lancashire, he re-
marked, with characteristic modesty : “ I am the
white-haired boy .of the women in Maoriland. I
have been in power ever since they had the fran-
chise.” Later on, Seddon informed the audience
that since the M.L. women were enfranchised,
the doors of Parliament had been closed to all
men of doubtful character.
A day or two before he lost his billet
Speaker Mason desired Melbourne Herald to
mention, “for the information of inquiring
friends,” that a certain Captain Mason who was
on his way back from S’Africa was not his
(Speaker Mason’s) son. That would have
been sufficient information for inquiring friends,
anyhow, but the proud father went on state
that his son—Captain Mason—had written hi ;
latest letter from the “country seat of Lord
Methuen.” The joy of getting a chance to let
“ inquiring friends ” know your close relationship
to a young man who has been lodging with a lord !
“Unitarian ” writes
Your par. about “Parson” Worthington in issue of
Oct. 4th is, on account of its brevity, somewhat mis-
leading. A.B.W. was never a recognised Unitarian
minister. Fact is the Sydney Unitarian church jas, of
recent years, fallen upon evil days. Parson Walters
dealt the first blow when he went out “on Bis own.”
The vacillating Dr. Zilhnan failed to stop the dry rot that
Walters started, and the spiritual Mr. Kemp, sent by the
British and Foreign Unitarian Association, was too deli-
cate for aggressive work. He returned to England, and
left the pulpit t 6 anyone the local committee could
obtain. A.B.W. saw the opportunity and volunteered.
Melbourne and Sydney Unitarians opposed. He got in
and rejoiced. Another breach ; but A.B.W.’s fervid elo-
quence brought others by the dozen. No Unitarian
wishes to exult over a fallen idol; but since the forced
exit to Melbourne the “ alleged ” Unitarians who hung on
his words have mysteriously disappeared from the pews.
Melba, during her Melbourne stay, had
four policemen to her own cheek, and paid 10s. a
day per head for the boon. The policemen were
said to be kept to restrain the criminal classes
from dabbling in Melba’s jewel-cases (the song-
stress is credited with wearing £200,000 worth at
Mayor Sam Gillott’s reception). But there was
another very urgent need for special guardians—
to keep eager, curious, brass-faced people off
Nellie’s premises. From the moment Melba
reached her home the invasion began ; heroine-
worshippers swarmed through the gates and over
the fences, and invaded the grounds—some stony
females even rushed the house —to gaze upon the
tremendous Australian who had plucked the
whiskers of kings. Melba’s insurance agairfst
Melbourne assurance cost her £l4 a week.
Had Premier Seddon any feelings beneath
his hide he would have left London for Ashantee,
or some such uncivilised spot after the baiting he
?ot from all the decent English papers. London
)aily Chronicle, for instance
General Lucas Meyer expressed his inability to accept
the King’s invitation to the Coronation. It seemed
likely that he would not survive to attend the ceremony ;
and it is evident that his plea of ill-health was no empty
excuse. In a somewhat ill-timed speech, Mr. Seddon
assumed that the refusal was a studied insult to the
King. General Meyer has taken the most direct method
in his power of confuting that view. He has died.
Seddon hasn’t even apologised to the dead man’s
memory.
Major General Hutton is a religious man.
He told Adelaide Church Congress t’other day
that he desired to see the military forces of the
Commonwealth based upon the great principles of
religion. “History,” he said, “shows how
intimately the religious and military life of our
people are interwoven.” True, true ! snavel and
snuffle-bust; the Bible and the bull-dog revolver.
“Religion,” said the commandant piously, “is a
refining and adjusting force. I commanded 6000
men in S'Africa and didn’t have to punish a single
delinquent.” Picture the 6000 holy Tommies and
their sanctified Commandant spreading grace
around. “Attention for prayers, you lot
of ! ” Booh ! Likewise Yah !
Panmure Gordon, the London Stock
Exchange man who died the other day, aged 65,
was married to an Australian lady whom many
visitors from this end of the world have found a
charming hostess. Mr. Gordon was scion of a
family of “ tone,” had acquired a big fortune, and
Eut on unimaginable frill, as anyone who has ever
ad to cool his heels for an hour while waiting to
see one of the magnates of the firm of Panmure
Gordon and Co. at its city offices can amply
testify. He entertained on a princely scale, was
hand-and-glove with Lord Lonsdale, Kaiser
Wilhelm and co., made a hobby of matters
vehicular, and owned more carriages than the Czar,
and over and over again gave hundreds of pounds
for a dog he fancied. Also, “he had a mania for
clothes, and after the fire at Loudwater, two or
three years ago, it was computed that he had lost
1100 neckties. He had an enormous drawer full
of new white flannel trousers, and another full of
evening waistcoats. He had at one time 500 pairs
of trousers in his possession, and new boots stood
in rows and rows in his cupboards. On one occa-
sion it was said that he had 13 new overcoats
which he had never even looked at, and in one
comer of a room was a stack of about 50 new
sticks and umbrellas.”
GRIFFITH, MELBA'S FLAUTIST
Hear the nice, pleasant thud as those who
called themselves “ Gentlemen ” in their nomina-
tion papers strike the bottom of the Vic. poll or
thereabouts: Foster Rogers, Billson of Bogong,
Francis Conway Mason, poor Old Jock Mclntyre,
Outtrim, Dan Lazarus. In fact, save in the cases
of Gillies and Labor-man Tucker, where nothing
much counted, to put oneself up as a mere
“ Gentleman ” seems to have been the deadliest
handicap in the ballot.


MOST DELICIOUS.
MACONOCHIE’S
POTTED MEATS AND PICKLES.
7 S P”"S Street, Sydney. Australian Agents.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
DAVID STORED. & SONS’
BLACK, RED and BLUE
Registered
Trade
Mark.
Is the Only Absolutely
SAFE Woo, “
gnrc Marking
The Perfect Sheep-Marker. SHEEP BRANDING OIL
Kept by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
WA r l
no
S WHISKY.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors. -In the cxse of ethnological and
natural-history items , etc., alicags give date and
place of experience ; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific
value.
The grim humor of the Australian land 1
Lake George, one of the few inland water-sheets
on which this dry country prided itself (its fore-
shores were proposed as a Federal capital site
on account of its extensive and permanent
water ”), has dried up completely at last, and at
present is being bitterly fought for as a—grazing
farm 1
* * * •
The effects of the drought as shown in
Molong (N.S.W.) district. Larras Lake Station
shows only about 50 lambs from 10,000 ewes,
while over 4000 ewes died during the lambing.
The percentages of lambs on other holdings in same
district are in a like ratio or worse; one station
near Cumnock had only 6 lambs from 4000 ewes.
m * m *
Many southern N.S.W. squatters are
buying goats on which to rear valuable stud lambs
—the ewes being too weak to discharge maternal
duties. “Nanny ”is bailed up for a few times,
and soon takes kindly to her adopted family,
often three in number. Sometimes the lambs
show a decided partiality for a special “wet-
nurse,” but she will allow none near her but her
own charges.
* * * *
Latest curse to the man out West (N.S.W.)
is the advent of the fox. Lately several tongue-
less sheep have been found between Nyngan and
Cobar, a sure sign of reynard.
• • • •
How many young ones does reynard’s
vixen have at a litter in England ? A Congupna
(Vic.)_ farmer killed a fine fox and eight young
ones, in a hollow log, on his farm recently.
AT DROUGHT TIME.
SELECTOR: “Dry weather, Mr. Threerails."
SQUATTER : “ Yes, Micky. How does it affect you?"
SELECTOR : “ Well, the drought has put me on
my legs."
SQUATTER: “Put you on your legs!"
SELECTOR: “Yes. I had horses to ride before.
I have to walk now.”
“ Rap ” : Struck a drougftt-lunatic t’other
day. “Got a field-glass?” he asked. “What
for?” said I. “Why, ter watch that blarsted
sun with. He’s watchin’ me all day long; every
time I look up I see his ole eye winkin’at me.
He’s try in’ to burn me. I know it. If I on’y had
a glass I could watch an’ see wot he’s doin’. Then
at night them dam moon an’ stars come out ter
watch me ; they’ve all got glasses, twinklin’ an’
bobbin’ about. If Igo ter bed in a dark room the
moon watches me through a clink. They’re all
waitin’ till I’m not thinkin’, and then God
knows.” This poor wretch, literally fighting the
universe, was ruined by the drought, and became
insane through watching the sky for signs of rain.
• * * *
“ A.P.R.” : During the last five years the
swagman has become almost extinct, mainly
through O’Sullivan and the drought. The grass
famine has caused stations ordinarily employing
four or five hands to keep a retinue of 20 or 30
scrub-cutters, etc., for years at a stretch. The
first good season will bring wages to bedrock, since
there will be but one-third of the flocks of 1890,
and no station work except burr-cutting. A
mighty rush O’Sullivan wards will ensue. Sheep
will be at fearfully high values after the break-up,
through the great demand for ewes for breeding.
At present stock-trafficking is at a standstill, and
the commission agents are living on their fat.
* * • *
Cane-tops, they now say in Queensland,
make quite as good chaff for cattle as wheaten
hay.
“ Tonbur ” on the drought:
After seven years’ drought the settlers in Gondobolin
(N.S.W.) d.strict have now to face a plague of caterpillars,
which devour the young grass as soon as it appears above
ground. Three brothers came up there from Victoria,
nine years ago, with the respectable capital of £2OOO. To-
day they have nothing but the fences, a humpy, and a
mortgage. Three crops in nine years, and this year no
hope of one. The squatter offered them £lOO to clear
out. In Temora district, a man from the Murrum-
bidgee took up 2560 acres, and started with £3OOO ; he
left recently, after seven years’ toil, with five horses—and
his brother became insane. Another, in same dis-
trict, started dairying with 50 cows ; to-dav he has nine
left ;-and another, out of 1500 ewes, has 150 left. The
chief food of these farmers is now rabbits, and ordinary
meat is out of the question.
In Narandera and Hay districts, things are in a de-
plorable state. Hardly a spring in the grass and the
crops just showing above ground. Shearing is going
on, but many sheep die on the board, and hundreds after
leaving it. Thousands of sheep are being bought at from
, : to 2s. per head ; the “ flesh,” salted down in casks, is
being sent to Sydney to be canned. Needless to say,
various kinds of sheep go in. There is no Government
inspector here.
The stations in Narandera and Hay districts are all
hand-feed,ng, which costs thousands per week, and most
of the se.ections in Hay district are deserted. In Hay
there are mostly untenanted houses, and the pubs
are deserted. The misery in the back country is simply
appalling, and when the returns come in next year they
‘will stagger humanity.” By the way, you very rarely
meet a horseman now, hut bikes are everywhere ; on one
station there are no fewer than 40 machines. Not far
from Hay I met a man leading an equine wreck, carrying
his swag. He told me he kept the poor animal alive upon
damper.
• * » *
“Mac.’ : Owing to drought and scarcity
of employment the marsupial is having a bad time
in Q.. Very many men and boys are engaged in
trapping, poisoning and shooting. Some of the
marsupial hunters must be brutalised ex-wariors ;
last week I found a freshly-skinned native bear
still alive. _ These harmless creatures possess
wonderful vitality, and Heaven knows how long
it would have lived and suffered had I not killed it.
* • * •
“ Monbulla ” : Very noticeable in the
N.S.W. back-country, within 300 miles or so
of Bourke, is the
number of harmless
cranks. There is
the man, who is
going to make a
fortune out of a
needlewood tree,
that he has had his
eye on for years ;
the boundary-rider,
who rides the horse
that was handled
for the first time
yesterday; the
Cockney swagman,
who was sent out,
because he was
going to marry a
girl in trade his
people being far
above that kind of
thing ; the lonely
hut - keeper, whose
weakness is gather-
ing tins and but-
tons, also cat - rear-
ing ; the man who
works contentedly
at all manner of
jobs all the year at
£1 per week, but
when the shearing
time comes is at
once a fervent high-
wage agitator, a
stump speaker, who
has in his mind’s eye
" a future seat in the
federal Parliament and
speaks of the A.W.U. as
“me and Spence.” Also
... , every second man in the bush
will tell you he regularly contributes to The
Bulletin, and talks about the time “me and
Lawson 5 camped at Huntrerford.
* • * *
\ine primings and trimmings, hitherto
burnt, are being put through a cutting-machine,
and served with a small quantity of crushed oats
as a fodder for stock down the Vic, Goulburn
Valley, with excellent results.
• • * *
If the drought lasts much longer bottle-
tree and mulga will be extinct in many S.
Queensland districts. In most localities mulga,
in place of being trimmed, is cut down remorse-
lessly, and the effect is already painfully evident.
Iramsloaded with prickly pear, bound westward,
are no uncommon sight in Queensland.
® |
“Rusty”: Be artesian bores (“Indra,”
B. 27/9/’O2). Bore-water will grow anything for
any number of years. It is the soil that needs
watching. 1 have irrigated at 20 different bores
and have always found that, after the first crop’
manure is needed. Same with river-water. At
Pera bore some agriculturists, having discovered
tnatit is not the water that has caused the crops
to give out, now cart manure from Bourke, while
others, who either think with “Indra,” or are too
lazy to manure, are fast drifting to ruin
• *
Mr. Frank Cotton writes in the press :
not, wish to in any way undervalue our artesian
water supplies, but, when I know that the whole of the
water from one of the best Western N.S.W. bores with
an estimated flow of 3,000,000 K a1. per dav, was, during
the present drought, barely sufficient to keep the grass
green on a 200-acre horse paddock during the summer
HnilhfP’l 1 h n V fv, eve *u re ? son for my statement that it is
doubtful whether the flow of any artesian bore in Aus-
tion 13 6C * Ua *° con bnuously irrigating a 640-acre selec-
* * • 4c
“D.D.”: Be Barron River timber. In
d n ys ? f Tincanßay (Q.) a man, known
Ofi Jack ’ felled a kauri pine with
Bb,oooft. in it. Once on the ground, nothing could
be done with the giant, and it was left to decay.
THE CURRENT CRAZE.
JACRO, JUNIOR (in background): “Sag, what's dad gone
off 'is pannikin about, mother?"
MOTHER: “Why, 'e's been an' 'eard o' this ‘ere Sandow
cove, an' 'e's tightenin' 'is muscles up a bit ter be
I in the fashion."
‘ *\Sclinapper ” writes from the north of
South Australia:—
In spite of the daily paper headings—" Break-up of
the Drought,” “ Splendid Rains,” “ Harvest Saved,” &c.,
we are here face to face with the worst times on record.
There are over a quarter of a million acres in this State
that won’t return seed. Hundreds of strippers will never
he taken out of the sheds, and all stock able to travel are
being moved as quickly as possible.
For hundreds of miles there is not a vestige of teed,
the country being as bare as a metalled road, and black
with grasshoppers. A hav-famine, too, is imminent.
Nearly all the hay has either been sent to, or sold, for
Sydney, and there is nothing like enough growing for
this State’s own requirements. Unless phenomenal rains
fall within the next six weeks the wheat in the settlers*
districts will mature, and as most of the crops are
not high enough to cut with a binder the outlook is very
black.
Within 20 miles of Adelaide, where some of the richest
land in the State is to be found, farmers are turning their
stock on to the crops, which have gone beyond recovery
—a fair index to the state of the country in the North.
The Government cry is—“ Make the land produce its
utmost.” The Northern farmers have tried the experi-
ment, and have made the North a barren wilderness. .
Some Queensland stock foods. Jondaryan
i.s feeding 10,000 sheep on prickly pear. Degilbo
is trying to keep 2000 head of cattle alive on
tree, gangs of men felling and preparing the trees
for fodder. Many small settlers on the Burnett
River are feeding their milkers on wild castor oil
plant. Bottle-tree is being hauled to Eidsvold
(where chaff is £22 a ton) a distance of 12 miles,
the cattle being too weak to drive to it. Eidsvold
is 40 miles from the nearest railway station, and
the freight on goods is £1 per 1001 bs.
* * * *
Mount Buller, near Jamieson (Vic.),
5900 ft. high, is always covered with snow in
spring; this season the snow is blood-red in
color, probably through being mixed in falling
with suspended dust particles from the red-clay
plains.
• ¥ * *
A W. Queensland paper tells how a resi-
dent, while fishing in the local creek, saw an
immense cod swimming about. Resident sprang
in, collared the cod by the gills and hauled him
in. Turned the scale at 37£lbs. Miraculous that
a W. Queensland creek, after a four years’ drought,
should have water enough left to float any kind of
a cod.
• • ¥ 9
“ F. 8.” : He “ S.A’s. ” par. (B. 4/10/’O2) :
Fresh water is frequently obtainable, not merely a few
feet from the sandy margin of the sea, but actually on a
sandy beach half-way between high and low-water marks.
I myself have a never-failing well of perfectly fresh water
not 20yds. from the shore of Bass’ Straits, about three
miles N.E. of the Split Point lighthouse, but I have
pretty good evidence that the water comes from the
gravelly hills 50 to 80 chains inshore, and drives the salt
water out before it, dissolving any salt remaining in the
sand and carrying that to sea also. “Discovered” the
well at low-water one hot-wind day when the rest of the
beach was dried up and crusted with salt. I found
several minute “springs” welling up, the apertures of
which might have been made by a knitting-needle, and,
constructing a “ coffer dam” with a piece of 4in. drain
pipe, I found the water fresh. Shorewards I noticed a de-
pression in the clay hills just opposite this point, and on
digging Bft. struck my present well which, even during
the long-continued drought, has remained at a level
midway between those of high and low water. Would
not careful investigation in all similar cases show that
the fresh water only comes from the sea in the usual way
— i.e., via the clouds ?
• » * *
“ M.L.A.” writes :
Re brutality to camels (B. 27/9/’O2) allow me to contra-
dict the par. I’ve examined camels at Broken Hill, ditto
at Bourke, seen them when lying down with saddles off,
and they were in good condition, some of them pig-fat,
and all with sound backs. I was at Pera bore when two
teams came into water - about 70 camels—and I closely
overhauled them as they drank at the trough. Although
some had white patches of hair suggestive of former
scalds, not one had a saddle-sore the size of sixpence. I
certainly saw cows heavy in calf started on a trip, but
they were, comparatively speaking, lightly packed.
Camels are too valuable to the owners and too sacred to
the Afghan drivers to be cruelly treated ; besides they
are fiercely vindictive to anyone who abuses them, and
will use tooth and heel to get square with him.
“ Dave Randall ” : Middle of
’B5, self and mate were sent from
Melbourne via Normanton to Dur-
ham, on the Etheridge, with two
teams. We were bathing in the
Gilbert River, when we discovered
a hole which contained hundreds
of fish. We decided to block the
passage from the hole to the river
with grass, and built a firm wall, a
foot wide and six or seven inches
higher than the surface of the
water, and the fish were securely
paddocked. Next morning we got
there with two buckets, only to find
that the fish had left. They either
climbed or jumped our wall !
Handling jew-fish in this river I got
several stabs from their fins, and
my hands were frightfully swollen
and stiff. The agony for 24 hours
was intense. Hands got right again
in a few days.
• + *
“ T.A.D.” : Anyone know the
true derivation of the phrase “ long-
sleever as applied to beer. Heard,
the other day,that Bishop Barker
(consecrated to the Sydney see in
1854) was fond of his long beer.
Hence Sydney’s barmaids were
asked for “a lawn-sleever, please,”
as a compliment to ‘ ‘ His Lordship. ”
That degenerated into “ long-
sleever.” [“ Long-sleever ” comes
from the resemblance between a
pint-pot and a “long-sleeved hat.”
A “long beer” used to be called
in Sydney a “Bishop Barker” —the
bishop was a very tall man.]
* * * *
“ Nomad,” re shearing tallies—
Sheep are, as a rule, much harder to shear now-a-days
(through the introduction of the Vermont strain). The
following tallies were made by a few Queensland
“ringers” this (1902) season. At YVinton wools;our,
in May, Harry Livingstone (age 23) shore 211 and 213 in
two days ; at Marathon, in Aug., he shore 217, 217, 21f>,
213 in successive days, and, later, he got through 23(1
in oue day at Teleinon, Hughenden. At Guambetook,
Denny Noonan shore 203, 220, 210 in three days of 8
hours. At Gracedale, G. L. Smith shore 201, 213, 209,
220, and 108 on Saturday (half d ay), Same shearer shore
194, 208, 215 in succession at Berkeley. He is also
credited with shearing 123 lambs in four hours at
another shed. W. Livingstone (brother of “Harry”
referred to above) shore 209 and 211 at Winton wool scour,
and 228 at Ayrshire Downs. In ’96, Louis J. Pully shore
33,875 Sheep in one seasoii, his cheque being £338 15s.
“ Jimmy ” Power, probably-the fastest machine-shearer
Australia (or the world, for that matter) has ever seen, is
said to have shorn 40,000. sheep in one season. This man
owns the world’s machine-shearing record of 315 sheep in
7hrs. 40mins.
* • * •
“E.E.”: At Glen Innes, where weeping-
willow thrives, stool; are found to do remarkably
well o i the leaves. The tree will usually do well
in creek beds.
* * * *
“H. J. Mac.” : Be the immersion cure
for snake-bite. As far back as ’B9, I set forth, in
S.M. Herald, that immersion in cold water,
preferably a running stream, was an, effectual cure
for man or beast, and cited instances within my
personal experience. Many contradicted, and
nobody agreed with me, so that it is curious now
to find sundry Bulletin correspondents advocat-
ing the immersion-treatment.
* * * •
Wyom” : Left) a line recently all night
in the Namoi River, and next morning hauled in
a 27ylbs. cod. But he wasn’t on the hook ; that
was in the mouth of a 11b. “ yellow-belly ” which
had been swallowed head-first by the cod, the
latter being then firmly held by the spiky back
fin of the former.
* * * *
“ J. Mack” : Recently noticed on sand-
banks on the Gwydir River what appeared to be
the nests prepared by the Murray cod for its
spawn. The rim was composed of coarse sand, 3
or 4in. high, encircling a double layer of coarse
gravel, about 3 to 4ft. across, and, as I found upon
examination, two stones deep, with coarse stones
underneath. These nests had evidently been pre-
pared under water for the coming spring, but the
drying up of the river had left them exposed. As
most of them were built on banks of pure sand,
the stones must have been carried into position by
the fish in its mouth. Or, if not, how otherwise?
» * * «
Driving in to Port Augusta (S.A.), C. B.
Richards, owner of Mt. Ive station, did the 320
miles in five days. The four ponies, half-breds,
drew a buggy,- two men, and a fair load of luggage.
The last day’s tally was 120 miles, and the ponies
were landed fit to go on next day. All this, of
course, over bush-tracks. Apropos fast bush-
going. If the man who has recently stood his trial,
charged with a big mail robbery, really did
the job (the jury couldn’t agree about it), he
must have covered over 160 miles between 7 one
evening and 3 the next afternoon !
* * * *
“ YV.M.B.” : Be Jimmy All Sin, of Cairns
(B. 27/9/’O2). Said Chow has 800 acres under
sugarcane, and 1200 acres sub-leased to his brethren
in blocks of 20 acres upwards. Employs “ white”
ploughmen, and has over 100 indentured “boys.”
When Lord Hopetoun was at Hambledon, Jimmy
gave a.Chinese dinner to his Ex. and party, and a
couple of prominent white residents. All the other
guests were Chows, including Willie Muy, the
man whom the whites take their hats off to, and
who, not long ago, spent £2OO on a dinner in
honor of his firstborn Chow.
• * * *
Autopsy on a cow at Quirindi (N.S.W.)
revealed that death was due to a 7in. hat-pin em-
bedded in the heart. The cow had evidently
digested the rest of the girl.


CLEARS
the BLOOD
through the
KIDNEYS
WOLFES
!f SCHNAPPS.
Is Farming - a Failure?
From an Australian Standpoint.
‘‘ls farming, under the climatic conditions
which prevail in Australia, a failure?” This is
a question which many a farmer has turned over
in his mind, and which is likely to receive more
attention in the immediate future. Bile Beans
' for biliousness will, however, insure that a
farmer does not fail because of ill-health. Mr.
William Brown, a well-known agriculturist, of
Maitland, N. S. Wales, has a most interesting
statement to make on this subject. He says:—
“I am seventy-four years of age, and beyond a
few rheumatic twitchings had never suffered
from ill-health till recently, when, I suppose, old
age making itself apparent, I was seized with
great nervousness, trembling, and very bad head.
I tried various remedies, but in vain. My daugh-
ter, living in Newcastle, recommended me to take
Bile Beans, as they had given her great relief
and satisfaction. I did so, and the result is that
lam a firm believer in Bile Beans. They have
given me great relief, and I feel quite a new
man, can rest well, eat well, and am enjoying a
comfort in my old age that I never thought would
be mine, and I feel very grateful indeed for the
beneficial effects I have received from Bile Beans,
and confidently recommend them to old and
young.” Not only for nervousness, but for general
debility, female weaknesses, constipation, piles,
pimples, face sores, blood impurities generally,
spring ailments, anaemia, insomnia, &c., Bile
Beans for biliousness are the most effective remedy
known. All chemists will supply them, or you
may obtain them from the Bile Beans Manf’g Co.,
39 Pitt-street, Sydney, b.y sending price, one and
three halfpence. As their composition is purely
vegetable, in a certain sense they may be said to
be “ raised on the land ” for the workers on the
land.*
When discussing Lyne’s proposed tour of
the Federal Parliament some of the members
wanted to know if drinks would be supplied for
the pic-nic. _ Why, certainly ! If the Reps, are
to have their power of observing and absorbing
things—especially absorbing—strengthened, they
should be given well-regulated doses of D.C.L.
The Whusky of The Wise may be trusted to
inspire wise legislation if given a fair show.*
THE MOST
EXQUISITE
Of refined work in Gem-Mounting we turn out
every day from our Hunter-st. Workshops.
We have been doing it for years, and understand
it thoroughly.
Fine Tracery in Gems. No design too refined
for us.
What an immense saving, too, to buyers to save
all intermediate profits !
Then we buy Diamonds by thousands at a time.
Pearls we have direct from the Fisheries in
large parcels.
Opal we get in the rough—and so save all along
the line.
No wonder we do not feel the depression, but
show increased returns.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
London Prices.
Plain Figures.
Cash.
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 HUNTER STREE
Fine Gold, Set with
Choice Pearls, with
Diamond Centre—
Fine Gold, Set with
Choice Pearls, with
Diamond Centre—
A CENTENARIAN: MR. MICHAEL SCOBIE,
of Maitland, N.S. W. (father of Mr. Scobie, of
N.S.W. Leg. Assembly), who celebrated his 100th
birthday on October 3, 1902.
Photo, by Kedwell, Paris Panel, West Maitland, N.S.W.
“6x8”: A curious suspicion in the
bush, especially amongst shearers, has it that
a man who has no hair on his chest is a thief.
When a swag-strap or anything else is lost a chest-
inspection is commenced. If no hairless chests
are present the man with the least wool gets
blamed. Wonder how this originated ?
“H.G.”: Stump-grubbing is practically
obsolete in Gippsland, where the roots are burned
out by a process which seems in direct conflict
with scientific principles. The stump is lighted,
and when it has burnt level with the ground it is
covered with earth completely and left. The fire
travels along the roots and consumes them com-
pletely. Perhaps this is practised in ether parts
of Australia, but I have never seen it. How
those roots keep alight when there is practically
no air I dunno.
* * * *
A little bit of Australian history from
Tit-Bits :
It was a kiss
which practical-
ly depopulated
Eden, a town of
some 1,400 in-
habitants, in
Queensland. A
stranger tramp-
ed into the town
one day, and,
after refreshing
himself at a little
eating-house, in-
sisted on kissing
the buxom wife
of the proprietor.
The latter was
present, and
laughed heartily
at what he con-
sidered a fine
joke, for his
spouse was past
her prime and
far from attract-
ive. The stranger
passed on along
his way inland.
Next day the
woman was.
taken ill ; within
forty eight hours
she was dead and
her husband and two children
were dying. When news went
round that a violent disease
had broken out in the town
most of those people- who
could leave hurried away at
once--Some struck towards
the coast, others went in-
land. A few of the latter
passed on their way the body
of the stranger who had
come into Eden and kissed
the innkeeper’s wife. Of
those Edenites who chose or
were forced to remain, more
than one hundred lost their lives through the stranger’s
death-dealing kiss. It was many months ere the epidemic
passed away altogether, and numbers of people will still
travel miles out of their way to avoid the town, which is
even now practically deserted.
There is no Eden in Queensland, there was no
deadly kiss, and the town which doesn’t exist
wasn’t depopulated by the kiss which wasn’t
given. That’s the sort of stuffing the British
goose-public gets from its cheap newspapers.
A tale of Wilga Lagoon
Randall, the storekeeper at Wilga, was
re'uctantlv ending a prolonged spree at the
Wilga hotel, when Mills, the new “ experi-
encin',” arrived. Mills looked out at the
dust.v track and the wind-swept plain—
“Don'tthegwoundhere ever gwowgwass? ”
Randall winked at Murphy. “ Yes, we
had some seven years ago. But now we are
under a curse—perhaps I'd better tell yon,
you're sure to hear of it sooner or later.”
Mills pushed the whisky-bottle nearer
Randall.
“Murphy knows,” began Randall, im-
pressively, “just as much as I do about
this affair. There was a governess at Wilga,
seven years ago, a pretty, fluffy-haired gill,
who made friends with everyone on the
station—and one day she disappeared. JSTo
one knew where she was till a bound’ry-
rider found her body in a lagoon on the
run.”
Randall pushed the whisky-bottle to-
wards Mills, and Mills pushed it back again,
and Murphy nodded. “ Now comes the
curious part,” continued Randall, ticking
off his words on his fingers ; “ never—since
—her—body—was—found have any sheep
or cattle been known to drink there, and
if you throw a stone in that lagoon it won’t
sink.”
Mills smiled derisively—“ Oh ! draw it
mild.”
Randall jumped up. “I’ll bet you five
pound it’s true.”
“ Done,” said Mills, placing a fiver on the
table, while Randall handed Murphy a
‘ Tattersall ’ receipt.
“It’s like this, Mr. Mills,” said Murphj',
apologetically, over the bar a month later,
“ if Mr. Randall hadn’t took your money
one of the others would, but I did think a
sharp young gent like you would have
dropped to the lagoon being as dry as a
bone —upon my word I did."
* * * *
“Tom 0.”: The farmers’
daughters of Northern Victoria are,
as a rule, divinely tall; and sometimes
diabolically elongated._ At a country
pub. one Saturday night, I met a
friend, an English remittance-man,
who had been on the razzle for about
a week. At the expense of a night’s
sleep I kept him off it till Sunday
morning, and then took him out for a
walk. Presently he began to pant
and tremble, and, following his eye,
I noticed across a narrow paddock of
tall oats the head-dress of some girl
on her way to the local tabernacle.
“Do you see anything there, Tom?”
he asked. “ No, Percy. Do you ?”
“ I’ll swear I see a woman’s bat across
there,” he faltered. “Of course,” I
said; “so do I.” “But she’s on
foot J” he wailed. “ Certainly she is.”
“But the crop is seven feet high!”
“ Yes ; about that.” Then he uttered
a yell and sprinted for the Gqulburn,
with me in chase; while the young
giantess looked across the crop, won-
dering what on earth was the trouble.
A curious point in connection with a N.S. W.
recent prosecution by the Animals Protection
Society for dehorning cattle, is that, whereas
a Government publication contains elaborate
instructions for the performing of this operation,
the proceedings under notice were taken at the
instance of a member of the same Government.
♦ * * *
Origin of the Riverina gag—“ Going to
see the agent ! ” In the ’7o’s, the wife of a Vic-
torian carrier sent her 10-year-old boy to keep the
old man company during the wool season. On
their return she privately questioned sonny:
“ Where did you stop of nights when you were at
Hay?” “Oh, I always minded the waggon.”
“ And where did your dad stop ?” “ Dunno ; he
was always away when I went asleep, and he was
always boilin’ the billy in the mornin’ when I
wakened up.” “Do you know where he’d been ? ”
“Yes; he always said he’d been to see the
agent.”
AFTER READING SOME MELBA
CRITICISMS.
“ What I like is his flawless, agility."
“I rather admire his perfection of shake."
“But look at the other’s facile technique of
fioriture.”
A “ way-back ” settler in Wairarapa
(M.L.) district recently saw a gigantic boar tackle
two newly-born lambs and devour them.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
Ko notice will be taken of communications Insufficiently
stani] ed. Name and address must appear on Ml.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
F.J.F. : As to whether the “poem” is of use
“to Tub Bulletin or any other journal ”: can only say
that it’s no use to The Bulletin, and we would be very
sorry for the other journal..,.Banj (Oil. Ch.): Poem of
32 lines —one line repeated 16 times, and the other 16
not worth much Eller: It’s well-known that after
getting used to a regular noise it becomes a necessary
lullaby to a nervous sleeper. It is the intermittent noise,
not the continuous, which does the damage.,..Kan-
garoo : Aboriginal-twins discussion dropped ; it has been
established as a fact that they do occur... .H.M.F. : Your
“thoughts on life” have occurred to so many people
before ; it is surprising how few original thoughts on life
have been left to be thinked Lucius: The other man
is right. Astronomy and dynamics were inductive
sciences ; but, having had their phenomena reduced
to the fewest possible principles, they are now deductive
sciences Blue Light: Our “opinion of it from both
the purely literary and the journalistic points of view ":
Well, in the former light, it’s beneath contempt, and, in
the latter, it isn’t E.L.A.: Thanks. The Cape paper
in question is a habitual thief and steals from Tub Bulle-
tin wholesale. But as The Bulletin now goes to the Cape
by the cwt., the locals will soon bowl out the plagiarist.
. ...J.G.F. : Your New Guinea item might have got in
had you not talked about “developing the great natural
resources ”of the country. That phrase is Accursed. It
looks as if Australia would make no real progress till the use
of the word “ develope” is made punishable by £lO fine
Instance : The Age refused not only to fairly report
Trenwith’s speeches, but also to receive his election ad-
vertisement. And yet he “ got there.” Sallie M. : Too
suggestive of Keats. “ The Eve of St. Agnes ” has got
into your b100d... .Noah : Anybody may hyphenate his
name at pleasure, but names were originally thus joined
where, under testamentary stipulation, a man marrying
an heiress had to add her name to his own .. .Nymsie :
Great Dibbs! You want us to advertise another man
who whittles walking-sticks “ not for pecuniary benefit,
but to gratify his friends.” P.F.R. : Chestnuts all.
You make us so tired... .L.M. (M.L.): Well, if you had
taken notice of the warnings you got you wouldn’t have
gone. There are hundreds, even thousands, in the same
position as you—back from the war with every door
slammed in their faces... .Lala : You’ve no legal right to
lock your husband out if he comes home late and beery ;
besides, if you do, he might forg'et to coine home on pay-
day. . . .Cape York : Yes, but in Sydney there are quite a
lot of Canadians who, on 4th July, pose as Yankees, while
on (Queen’s Birthday they have always let people imagine
they were British citizens. We don’t call those people
“ Americans.” They are only Canadians—of a sort.,..
Anti-Blatherskite : Trenwith, out of'.ofice, can be trusted
to give an honest democratic vote on most matters, and
that’s more than could be said for his oppenent. If you
could get the Archangel Gabriel to measure you for. a
perfect M.P., then you wouldn’t need Trenwith
Tox : That photo, of the Melba bed was published partly
because it was the Melba bed, and partly because it was
an historic bed which had belonged to the royal house of
Bourbon —or was it Orleans ?. ...A.A. : By the time
“Jack,” “Sarah” and “Bill” have arrived, the school-
marm who has married will probably know all about
buttons and baked potatoes. The domestic art is easily
acquired where there is a will W.E.S. (Eng.): Haven’t
an atom of prejudice against you as a Dutchman, but the
fact that you say nothing new in a very complicated way
puts your article out of court T.D. : And “sleek
pastordom” would be right. There is no scientific
certainty in the theories about hereditary transmission
of moral defects. The Sangal baby may turn out a
bishop Myall: Don’t want things amusing merely
from a local standpoint, but something to interest every-
body between Sydney and Albany W.B.D. : The
Bulletin has a “ set” on that millionaire because he is a
rapacious plutocrat and a snuffle-busting hypocrite at
the same time. During one strike at his ironworks he
employed Pinkertons (private armed police whom the
folly of American law permitted to exist) to fight down
the strikers, and there were one or two gory battles.
Whatever the rights or wrongs of the strike, a multi-
millionaire with one per cent, of the love for humanity that
he professes would have stopped short at that bloodshed..
Spix : “ Garden ” effectively simple ; for print.... Bilb.y :
It still won’t do, for you lack the observation and the
humor necessary for interest; though you make apparent
enough the tragedy of that particular form of the
struggle for a crust... .XB4 : You say a bus-driver pointed
out to you a white Kanaka —but if he was white, how do
you know he was a Kanaka? Are you sure he wasn’t a
pale negro or a black Chinaman ?—M‘Kel : Strong solid
joke O.P. : In writing your vituperation on the back
of a telegraph form you are guilty of mean and fraudulent
misappropriation of the Commonwealth’s stationery
J.R. : (1) It was not certain that the Federal P.M.G.
couldn’t be sued in the State oourts till the Judge decided
thus. Another Judge would possibly have decide
the reverse way. (2) A Bill to put the matter right has
already been passed. (3) If Queensland secession
doesn’t mean war, what does it mean ? If a majority in
every State wanted to secede that might be different,'but
there is no such majority. Certainly attempts at seces-
sion on the part of Ireland, Poland, the Southern
States, &c., always meant war. So did Jeroboam’s
secession. And when the N.S.W. Parliament, which
takes 40 years to think about a Local Govern-
ment Bill, complains because the Federal Parlia-
ment hasn’t done everything in 17 months, it is time to
gibe. No N.S.W. Parliament ever did half as much in
the time. That body once sat for 13 months at a
stretch without passing one important measure
John Simpson: Sorry unavailable... .E.A.F. : A bald
and unliterary horror which it would be inexpedient to
print... .Sausleson (or something of the sort): Two pos-
sibly available in some form ; the other returned. ..
Ajax: “Dion” below mark A.O.M. : Snake-in-bed
idea lias been too often used before Plymouth S. : In-
geniously conceived ; indifferently worked out Tom
W. : No recollection of it Treble-M. : It has now been
returned... .Sosia : No time to straighten out such a
jumble of incongruities... .T. M‘G. : That yarn is well
stricken in years W.G.T. : What “Scotty” wrote in
another paper concerns The Bulletin not at a 11....
Neroli: Very rough work A.M.G. : Your “ first lapse
into verse.” Better make it also your last! Rex : Its
only merit is terseness E.J. : Great lack of literary
skill... .Sligo : More sound than sense Bulbul: Fair
versification, but little merit otherwise.... Billy Tee:
Has some good descriptive touches, but is neverthe-
less weak and shapeless Clem: No g00d......
Hamer : “ Seasons ” has been said a million times before.
“ Noah’s Ark” too thin... .Glenara : Not up C.W.D. :
(1) It wouldn’t do the dancers any good. (2) There is a
lack of evidence as to whether Sandow or Rickards was
responsible Max S. : Too trifling P.C.C. :No spirit
or distinction... .Jane D. : Not worth print... .Egroig :
Hackneyed “situation.” D. McG.: Old idea, not too
well handled X.Y.L.: You don’t send your name, but
you do send an easily-identifiable hot libel H. Hempel
(M.L.) : Sent to Mr. Adams. Can’t possibly find time to
personally reply to such letters......A.P.Q. : Cooa
items tersely put; all for priiit Mac: Not enough
interest in your account of the lady’s “ metemorpasis. ...
Doris: Very great promise—if you are as young as you
say.... W.A.N. : The wheels of it creak too much. Try a
little Oil-of-Brevity A.A.M'P. : "Ju-ju” is Wes*
African coast jargon. It means an idol, worship, sorcery
—anything occult or uncanny.. ..James B. : One re-
turned ; t’other in the scales.. ..Yarrum : Take another
pen-name. We’ve a “ Yarrum ’’-contributor alreaw.
Stuff promising E.M.D. : Very rough work.. ..8.J.L.:
Returned; unsuitable Darragh : Faint gleams of
merit Ben. W. : The lilting measure is grotesquely un-
suited to the subject. Gives a kind of “ Trip _to the
Sepulchre” effect... .Momus : Plenty of steam in you,
but you're an inferior literary engine.. ..Odds : Not well
enough done.. ..Quidnunc : Too slender of interest....
Stan. P. : Rather neatly versed, but otherwise awkward
and overdone A.S.D.: Bulletin has no use for a long
theological discussion in indifferent verse... .Rol. : Will
make par. 0n1y... .Smith H. : Can’t do anything with it.
Thomas J.D. : You are modest, at all events. Writers
of much worse stuff have thought much better of it....
Painfully illegible Query : Bulletin doesn’t profess to
remember every line that has ever appeared in its
columns. Heaven forbid 1.... A. H. : Hawker not bright
enough Nym. : A two-inch par about a plain
swamp kind of will-o’-the-wisp! McLirr : (I) Cut
out your contributions, send with page and date to
accountant, Bulletin office, and prompt payment will
follow. (2) Can’t tell; try Geo. Robertson and Co.,
Sydney H.C.0.: Hongkong yarn out of our line....
Unsuitable: Spix, Crocus, G.F.A., The Slab, Sirdar,
0.A.5., Honor Bright, Quid Nunc, Awakino, Will 0.,
General, R. De, Dapto H.M.M. : Indian travel pictures
not glowing enough... .E.V.S. : Need a lot of improve-
ment yet... .Andys : Very promising, but metrical faults
man.y, and there is a lack of coherent purpose N. :
Press aphorisms mostly off our track.... Lachlan : Not a
bad argument, but poor verse Wm. J. O.: They all
miss ; “ M‘Gearin’s Clue” nearest to the bull’s-eye....
Judex : You forget that you can libel any man, even a
bishop... .F.W. : Pretty album verse, but that’s a 11....
O.H.R. : Will now print “Wooing of E.R.” Fred G.
(Singapore): Will print “The Empty Cup.” Waif:
“Busy” hardly up to mark A.G.E. : Might use it
some day as part of a Page of Bad Verse.... Awakimo :
“ Resignation ” rather mildly domestic... .The Dreamer :
Much more jingle than sense... .Penguin : “Who Stole
the Grapes?” shows good, careful work, but subject and
length put it out of our ken.... Jim Mack: Just misses
the ’bus M.S. : “ Story of the Town” is on too familiar
lines A.H. : He was lecturer on mining at Melb. Uni.
F.B.G. (Pietermaritz) : Only a variant of a yarn told
in every land where more than one tongue is spoken
Demos : Remarks on charges made in Vic. State schools
lost their point, as the Herald news-dipping referred to
wasn’t attached... .Nemo : Too diffuse and strugglesome.
Try to hit your subject on the ear hard in the first
x-ound O.W. : Snake and jug yarn is ancient
M.B. : Your “Gallop of Love” suggests too much the
rush-down a steep place of certain historic animals
Millie: Too weari y wailful....C.B.F. : You are appa-
l’ently barking up the wrong tiee... .E.V.C.: Horrible....
Murphy: Funny, but too awkwardly constructed....
Harry S. : Are vex'ses original ?... .E.M.P. : Nice ordinary
verses, but no novelty of idea or expression.... Alf.
Bowden : No, don’t give them a trial.... J. 8.: “ Wallaby
Track” well meant, but badly vei’sed.. ..F.E.P.W. : Will
print A.K. : Still under mark Yamagee :We sym-
pathise ; a change to “ double-surfaced” would be expen-
sive, but it is contemplated.. ..Oktis : Too trifling
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Ted: Officer subject may possibly do Abundance:
If its blasphemy didn’t damn it, its ancientry w0u1d....
Frank B. ; (Melb.): One will serve J.S.It. : Sorry none
suitable Ron B. : Have had “Travelling by Rail”
from several quarters J.A.M. : Very bad drawing.
You are apparently industrious, and should study under
good direction, if you feel that you’ve got it in you, of
which, so far, there isn’t any evidence H. Grif. (Vic.) :
Promising drawing, but to print the “near it” sketch
would be to emphasise a downright indecency ; the other
would do if you could work it up into a really pretty
picture. There’s nothing essentially humorous or in-
teresting in the idea itself O.P. : Two nice little draiv-
ings(M.A. and Melba subjects), but legends hopeless.
Ditto that theatrical item Unavailable : P.H.


-At the Women’s Christ
Courtenay Smith said that every woman “b 0 " 111 it
kr.owledggrof cookery, and if good appetising mea pre
would be found a great faetor in keeping should be
public-houses. Another lady suggested' that no woman should be
allowed to get married who could not first paes an y-
_ cookery ” i y 'v
Tjf ?0/AjT Of' \/, E Xyf
Ofi D fc TMAN - " h/W 1 a 7 ctoW * pvftct
oZ niah fjoocl { I hfilf you, fjt's a
Wfry. st's I
X
\
%>>
-O
* .
\
t
/,cf
y^Vv/cP^
4*l tV*
yvv* •*%/
„<?
.»■ c. <* /y ■
, v\* O’ C®
w ° s
THE WORM TURNS.
Long-suffering Husband (after a pro- >
traded course of cooking-class dainties) i
“ Oh, my angel! Pray take it away!.
Do let me off this time, and I’ll pro-'
mise never to enter a public-house,
again as long as I live ! ”
VICTIMS OF OSULLIVaNS 'GIANT’S STRIDE.'*
" Accidents at the public gymnasium in Sydney
Domain are becoming a daily occurrence”
BILL LYNE'S PICNIC.
Mr. Leak in : “ There will be no picnic,
bnt, even if there was, upon my word, I
think it would be difficult to get many
ihembers to go.”
At any rate, Bill has made up his mind
to go, even ifhe has to go alone and pay
for his own grog.
VA
%\ \
W\
% V*
Millionaire-onaut Carnegie s “ There !
having thrown all that ballast over-
board I ought to rise to Heaven
without difficulty.”
Parson . “If ever I pray for ram again,
may- I be” (dart a sharp clap a]
thander mode tl.e rest mandible to tnu
religious reporter.)
(It has been so long since George Reid hat done anythin"
cariooaable that our artist has really almost forgotten how to ~
draw him. As this work goes to press there are grave doubt*
as to whether the eye-glass here seen is in its norma] place or
not.)
CAETOONLETS.


The decision of Mr. Bent has caused con-
sternation among the railway employees?*
who, according to the Acting Commissioner
annually receive free passes to the value of ;
: £14.700. -
Id addition, the train mileage will this
year be reduced by 400,000 tnilca
'"Hire's
h -fc Srla/t" Mnrge* fce&rfboJf
, los*f^
'trTk^'r'“
G»cujiCoar-t') _ g-|| Sr»>rt%. i
' ou \ k o i^ nc^l4
kP
aJS'.a,-..
°«3 r « >0 * J>„
e# «*
V* s
° 6*
*3 ** v
*jo-T njtU*je»
*T svjl— yo«* ju 5+
Itje »b %<*■
& leT -tfje
go Vou-iol or > n o^"?^
j/'-ffre people Sftv><*
r Wow/ ">e-
crjone-y t>e»»7g^
\f
%•£ \
Sltorfy ISkfsTm *•**"!« '>« l *'«"
SL-y > f™"< -foc»~y '*«*•*
/ £i^n<3^)z v s>^' 17 £L
/" {400.000 a,nn«A» -fi/ts
f V ICIO^'V
1 1 V^j
ylai '
\ 01
//>'»
Kide
4eD- M /
fni -lit* ‘fill
U'tTa.-n |V
jbr S'T^Or7
lo I
ofr lb
Tor (WQeirr 4 >scov« ra J )
, & bcew ifo 'To b*-y«
W&sTe-fuI |«aK&« IS "ft be
~%<t 'ti’cKe'ts wTTI be m^/
'iltk h«4>fs near ttje
k will J U
•%an7selv« t < /
Cat fyeld
o/e r- -To r ff n?« r/t'"*
HTII
THE DEFENCE FORCE.
Th© determination of Mr. Bent to ©top
all free passes to the Defence Forces of, the
Commonwealth in Victoria has
aroused considerable interest in the DeffeckJ©
department as well as in Federal circles*
MlnuotfuJ h** H
•$* w« ‘V e
®t nw W >,,,^ L "’ e
, oM -s«*' ® row *
b in Ilje fln)t~
V CWE M W“*^
Xofr *Wf- * ti«Uion
I c^ufcV)"
SWtat'ic W//MM>
duKine 7 v»orKine
will t«
a :T+ H
l/- / — T 'fte to >jj
_ Isw«*t' t'cnj&.'ns So^V
- W«tt)^
. "(*uohtjn% Act
/ /&ent - Wl)*ts I Sfi« -
f I |>C»j|>"' l *JsJ ,K « * L
j over ■ 7 ltie j>l*«e ‘
&UsS> £W'»i« Driver:—
StijKJT'JoJ. rv *, I ** r /
i l only burriei *//
»b Ik- i&'/y
w««k «s /
C«ff V*#* <s ‘ Z_
'pMttßf tnMTAJR'Sr -RaILWa^PaSSES.
'The announcement by the Victorian
■ Minister of Railways of - his intention to
•withdraw from *the naval and military
forces the privilege of free railway passes,
even when on official business, is declared
by the Federal authorities to be illegal.
iW te
M r B<?oT jound
by into 1 i
C*lc«lddto«S 1 'j
Couotry ' £lOO.OOO
't|j*t* occmk s aj) over IBe
get' Ouf 3v,nd Wd,IK
“"“‘"r V ‘*‘”#'•>s .> •*& s *,u
counlZy Ijf Ijas fleeidad in -lf£y sljaHi
-Jfc B enf' Will
\
Too good -for Wo^ld
CONCERNING BENT’S VIC. RAILWAY-RECLASSIFICATION SCHEME.


Key,
£3 los.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUSHMEN AND MINERS.
ROTHERHAM SPECIAL MADE ENGLISH
LEVERS, Full Cap, Hand Finished, Extra
Jewelled Works, Perfect Timekeeper, with Pure
Silver Cases, .Dust and Water Tig-ht, £3 10s.
Extra duality, with Chronometer Balance,
£4 10s, £5, £5 10s, £O, £7, £8 ;
Solid Gold, £lO, £l5. £‘lo.
A written certificate for 3,4, and 5 years.
Try one ; you. will not regret it.
Keyless,
$5.
FREETRADE
PRICES.
A. SAUNDERS.
Strong', Reliable LEVERS, “lie Challenge,” 15a.
The Unrivalled Lever, in Black or Nickel, 20s; perfect
timekeeper. The London Lever, new |-plate model,
255; in Solid Silver, £2 2s; in Double Case, £2 10s, £3.
Rother ham LEVERS, £3los, £4, £5, £6, £7, £B. Gold
WATCHES, £4 4s, £5 ss, £6 6s, £7 10s. £lO, £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O. Mind, we guarantee you the utmost satis-
faction, “ otherwise we will exchange watch for you.”
Send for Illustrated book of particulars, post free.
NO
ADVANCE.
20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Unrivalled non-magnet LEVER.
Perfect Timekeeper, Sorew Cases,
dust and water tight, 20s.
A written Guarantee given with
each Watch.
20s.
Black or
Nickel,
30s.
A
N
<se-N=(
V /
K:
s#
6i"
“ FLY-BACK CHRONOMETERS.’’
These we have at Every Prioeand Style. In Solid
Nickel or Black, 30s ; Extra Quality, £2, £2 10s ;
Split Seconds, £3 LOs. Pure Solid Silver, £5, £B, £7,
£B, and £lO ; Solid Cold, £l5, £2O, £25, and £3O.
A written certificate for 2,3, 4, 5, and 6 years.
TRY ONE.
Silver,
£5.
Solid
Silver,
£2 10s-
ERI
■ ■
WALTHAM LEVERS.
We are Special Direot Agents.
[Pure Solid Silver Hunting Cases, Extra
Quality Movements,
£2 10a, £S, £3 10s, £4, and £5 ;
Gold Patent Cases, Walthains, £4 4a, £5 5s j
Solid Gold, £7 10s. £lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O,
and £25.
Gold
Cases,
M 4s.
Solid Gold CHAIN (Single or Double), £2 XOs,
£3, £3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5. 15ct. Solid Gold, £5 10s,
£6, £6 10s, £7, JBS, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d,
15s, 20s. Send for Price Illustrated Book.
15ct. Gold juar and Sc toll BROOCH, Pearls and
Red Stones, 355. Quite New.
A. SAUNDERS.
Now Motto Registered Gold “ Dinna Forget ”
BROOCH and Amethysts, 9ct. Gold, 17s (id;
loct. Gold, 30s ; 18ct. Gold, 355.
15ct. Gold, Extra Strong, with First-class
Opal, £2 5s ; similar, 355, £2, and £2 10s.
SO
15ot. Gold, Diamond and 2 Rubies, 22s 6d.
2-Bar Gold Soroll Pearl Set BROOCH, 20s
Hall marked.
A. SAUNDERS.
(Registered) Gold Secret Name BROOCH,,
loot. Gold, Diamonds, £2 10s, £B, £4.
Any Name or Motto Free.
Six Different Patterns, Similar.
15ct. Gold 2-Bar Ivy Leaf, Set with Red,
White, and Blue Stones, 22s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Ivy and Pearl Gold BROOCH, 25s
9ct. Gold, smaller, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Newest Solid Gold Name BROOCH. 7s 6d ;
with. Raised Flowers each side (Any Name),
loot. Gold, 15s. Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. 2-Bar Pure Diamond, Double Gut, £2.
9ct. Gold Square or lialf-round BRACELET,
3 Red or Blue Stones, £2.
Very Neat and Cheap.
*
- IW
( *
*
W
*
■*?
1
9
m
S? 5
Ladies’ Curb Gold
Chain, Snap Padlock,
255, 80s, 355, £2 ss,
£3; 15ct., £2 10s, £3,
£4, £4 10s, £5, £6,
£7 10s, £B, £9, £lO.
10s extra for Key
Padlock.
All with Safety Chain.
A. SAUNDERS.
Nicely Chased Gold BRACELET, 255. Very Neat and Pretty.
Sword and Sheath PAPER CUTTER, 6in. long.
Most Useful Present, 4s 6d.
A. BAUNDEBS.
New Wishbone and Arrow, with Bed
Stone, 12a (id.
A. SAUNDERS.
Wish Bone and Forget-Me-Not, 15s.
S M
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Raised Flowers, 5s 6d.
Larger, 6s 6d and 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Mizpah BROOCH, 2 Hearts, 10s
laiyer, 12s 6d. A Nice Broocli.
Good Luok ” BROOCH, 103 6d
15ct. Gold, 21s.
10
11
15
12 13 14
A. SAUNDERS’
FREETRADE PRICES.
10. —Round LINK, 9ct. Gold, £2, £2lOs f
£3; loot., £4, £5.
11. —Rope Pattern, 9ot. Gold, £2, £2los,
£3 ; 15ct., £4, £5.
12. —Curb Pattern, Oct. Gold, £2, £2los,
£3 ; 15ct., £4, £5,
13. —Rope aud Ball. 9ct. Gold, £2, £2los,
£8 ; 15ct., £4, £5.
14. —Curb and Link, £B, £4, £5, £O.
15. —Chain andßondell, £4 to £7 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Latest Style, loot. Gold Pearl Set Buckle 2-Bar
BROOCH, 32s 6d. English Hall Harked.
A. SAUNDEKS.
English Hall Marked 15ct. Gold Buby and
Pearls, Scroll and Eancy Sides, £2.
18ct.
Solid
Gold, £lO
Extra
Strong,
£l2los
A. SAWDERS.
JBct. Solid Gold Keyless WALTHAM
LEVER, Eull Jewelled Works. Patent
Action, New Model £lO, £l2 10s.
You Can’t get a Better Watch.
14ct. Solid Gold, £Blos.
A. SAUNDERS.
Grold Dinna Forget,
10s 6d.
lur own Registered
Design.
A. SAFNDEP.S.
CHARM.
New Cold Bell, ?
7u r
A. SAUNDEKS.
Indus’ Solid Silver Hunting'
Keyless WATCH,
Full Jewelled, 255, 30s, £2,.
. £2 10s.
Pi’ice to quality of work-.
Guaranteed 2,3, 4 years.
15ct. Gold
Turquoise
Eorget-
rue-Not
and
Pearl
Scroll,
20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold BROOCH, 3-Bar Diamond, 12a 6d.
. Very Neat.
A. SAUNDERS.
6sgr ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
"Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Silver Hunting’ Keyless, 2Es, 30s, £2,
12 ids, £3.
Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3, £4, £5 ;
Superior (duality, £O, £7, £B, £lO.
ALL GUARANTEED. i
Floral
PIN,
Pearl and
Tur-
quoise,
255.
15s.
O
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Black Keyless WATCH,
Good Timekeeper, 15s ;
Extra duality, 20s.
Guaranteed.
20s.
Post Card Gold
CHARM, 10s.
Any Name Fiee.
Silver, gilt, 5s 6d.
Gold Boot
CHARM, 5s 6d.
Latest Style.
Solid
Gold,
£6 10s,
A. SAUNDERS.
LADIES’ WALTHAM SOLID
GOLD KEYLESS,
f-movement, Chronometer Balance,
Jewelled, Perfect Timekeeper,
Extra Strong Cases.
Pull Size, £6 10s : Small Size, £5 10s.
Pure Solid Silver, same works,
£2 10s.
Silver,
£2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Pearl and
Turquoise Floral and
Ribbon BROOCH, £2 10s.
London’s Newest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Pearl and
Turquoise Heart
BROOCH, £2 2s.
The Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Solid Gold Opal LINKS,
with Initial. £2 10a.
Extra Strong.
A. SAUNDERS..
Beautifully Chased, 9ct. Gold!,
large size LINKS, 22s t>d.“
Elam, 21s, or with Initials*
nicely Chased, 22s 6dl
loot. Gold, £2 ;
Silver, 4s 6d. ,
A. SAUNDERS.
(Registered).
Gold LINKS, 20s;
loot. Gold, 32s 6d ;
Silver and Gold, 10s ;
all Silver, ss.
f
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold LINKS,
very pretty. 12s 6d.
Large Size, 15s and 20s.
Silver, 2s 6d and 4s 6d.
MIZPA.H GOLD
CHAJELM, 4s.
A. SAUNDERS’
' Watches,
Clocks,
Jewellery,
AND
Silver pi ate
AT
FREETRADE
PRICES.
SAVE 25 PER CENT.
TO 50 PER CENT.
Showrooms :
815 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Solid Gold, 5 pure
Diamonds. £l2los ; ?
Smaller, £5, £>!. £7, |
£7 10s, to £3O.
18ct. Solid Gold,
5 Pure Diamonds, £5.
Diamond and
Sapphire or Ruby,
£3 10s :
larger, £4 10s, £5.
A. SAUNDERS. ?
18et. Gold,
3 Sapphires, Rubies,
or. Opals, 4 Diamonds,
£3, £3 10s, £4,
£4 10s, £5. *
}
A. SAUNDERS.
Opal Band RINGS,
Set. Solid Gold, 17s 6d;
loot. Gold, 30s ;
18ct. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
18et. Buttercup Single
Stone Diamond
RING,
£3, £4, £5.
; A. SAUNDERS, i
18ct. Gold.
3 Pure Diamonds,
2 Opal Hearts, £4 10s.
Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ot. Solid Gold Buckle,
17s 6d; loot. Gold, 30s ;
18ct, Gold, £2.
Solid Gold, Turquoise
and Pearl, 20s.
Newest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Solid Gold, 3 pure
Double-cut Diamonds,
£5, 1 Diamond and
2 Rubies or Sapphires,
£3.
18ct. Solid Gold Diamond
Band, £2, £2 10s, £3;
, t 15fct. Gold, 30s.
18ct. Gold Buckle
RING, Diamond, and
2 Rubies or Sapphires,
£2 10s.
With Name, Band RINGS,
9ct. Solid Gold, 12s 6d, 15s;
loot. Gold, 20s, 25s ;
18ct. Gold, 255, 30s, 355, £2.
GENT.’S RING.
Solid Gold, Amethyst, 255;
15ct. Gold, £2;
18ct., £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hand-made Wedding RINGS and KEEPERS.
9ct. Solid Gold, os 6d, 7s 6d, 10s each ; 15ct. Gold, 15s
extra heavy, 25s ; 18ct. Gold, 20s ;
extra heavy, 30s, 355, 40s. Send for Card/
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER AND SILVERSMITH,
815 AND 817 QEGRGE-STREET.
NEARLY OPPOSITE
RAILWAY STATION,
SYDNEY


A Quiet
*•
•* $ 9
Four Crowi
Whisky
$
w
j?-
X
£
The Finger Post to Health
This is an Interesting Story
for Liver Sufferers.
The case of
Mr. G. HEATHCOTE.
(BY a special reporter.)
Since enlightened humanity requires that
the trials incidental to sickness should be
minimised wherever possible, and since, by
kindliness and consideration much can be
done in that direction, a reporter called
upon Mr. (leorge Heathcote, of Surry -
street, Waterloo, who willingly assented
to answer any questions.
“Were you once a lesident of Bunda-
berg, Queensland ? ” asked the pressman.
“Yes,” answered Mr. Heathcote. “I
was living tlmre when it was necessary to
cross the bridge by boat instead of walking
over it, or, to be more explicit, during the
time of the great flood, and it was during
that exciting and tlis sirous period that hiy
blood was so impoverished through exces-
sively hard work for long hours at a stretch
that sores broke out on my hands and arms,
and my legs swelled terribly. Previous to
this I had suffered from fever and ague,
which left me very weak and shaky, and
for some weeks I noticed that my appetite
was falling oil ; hub I put that down to
fatigue more than anything else, until other
symptoms cropped up to show me it was
not so, hut my i£,\er and kidneys which
were responsible.”
“ What reason, were there to enable you
to arrive at that conclusion ? ”
“Any number of them, one of the most
unmistakable being a nasty pain which
caught me here (Mr. Heathcote indicated
the part affected by placing his hand on the
Sinai! of his back i. My back ached so in-
tensely thatfmy wife made flannel belts for
me to wear, thinking that they would afford
me some relief. If I was doing anything
Avhich caused me to bend down, the pain on
straightening myself was something terrible,
while walking also provoked great distress
and inconvenience, Other proof that my
kidneys were in a had way was also in
evidence, and as for tlu rest of my ail-
ments—well, I hardly know where to begin
first.”
“ Tell me a few of the most important—
those that are uppermost in your mind ? ”
Oh ! I lirve not forgotten any of them,”
was the q-ick response, “especially the
heavy feelings in my chest, which made me
short-win- ed. After eating, a weighty sen-
sation appeared in that qua-ter, and before
I knew where I was my stomach began
swelling out with wind, va hicli ina»le me
very unoomforta le always, and at times
gave 1 ise to sharp cutting pains. The
Soui gases gradually worked their way up,
and caused me to belch, after which, and
until l took a little more food,. 1 felt
slightly easier, but the same unpleasantness
followed each meal, however trifling. When
making my morning preparations for work
I used to feel as i,- I would like to go back
to bed again, as 1 was entirely devoid of
energy, and had no desire to attempt any-
thing. This languid ness was due, no doubt,
to the restlessness every night. I could go
to bed feeling so drowsy that my eyes
seemrd swollen for the want of rest, yet I
found myself awake the greater part of the
night, and when I got up my limbs were
ail aches. Nearly every day I was dis-
tracted with intense headaches, which ap-
peared to bring a mist before my eyes, as
it my sigut was failing me, and without any
warning my head became so giddy that I
lad to take a rest till the sensation passed
away. Every month I was getting weaker
and more wretched, being continually be-
set with pains under my shoulder-blades,
which travelled right through to the heart,
and caused me considerable anxiety. The
white coating on my tongue explained the
unhealthy condit on of my stomach, too,
and what I wanted was a real good medicine
to clear away all disorders and impurities :
ut in those days I did not know as much
as I do now, or I would have been out of
my troubles very quickly. I went from
bad to worse, and had arrived at that
melancholy and desperate stage when the
least and most simple thing excites a feeling
of irritation, and lam sure you will admit
that such a life of misery is not worth en-
during. Had I gone on a little longer in
that sorry plight I question whether I
would have been as sound a man as I am
to-day, for I was fairly in the grip of my
complaint, when, owing to the recollection
of some conversations between a few of my
friends, 1 hit upon the idea of taking some
Clements Tonic. I took immediate ac ion,
as I firmly believed that further delay
would have brought irretrievable disaster
to my constitution.”
“ Your good fortune came at a very ac-
ceptable time, I should imagine ? ”
“ Yes; and a very critical time, too, and
I regretted that I had not bought a few
bottles of Clements Tonic at the outset ;
but we all have to buy our experience, you
know, although I intend doing all I can to
help other sufferers by letting them know
what Clements Tonic can do. Personally,
I can truthfully say that it generally re-
vived me from my lethargic state when I
had drank but a small quantity, and I found
myself rapidly improving. Clements Tonic
had a magical effect on my kidneys and
greatly relie ed the pains about my back
and shoulders. This relief, coupled with
the abatement of my headaches, had the
effect of making me feel more restful at
nights, and the sound sleep I got through
using Clements Tonic did me an immense
amount of good. My slumber was not in-
terfered with by dreams, and when I awoke
at the usual time for getting up I arose with
alacrity and hastened to my morning meal,
after which I was ready for work. It was
I a marvellous change to be full of energy
and cheerfulness again, but the invigorating
properties of Clements Tonic were so re-
markable that I could not have restrained
my feelings of joy had I wanted to. Wind
never formed in my stomach after Cl.ements
Tonic got to work, neither did my chest
trouble me, while in the matter of palpita-
tion the same medicine was equal to the
prevailing requirements. There is no
denying the fact that Clements Tonic
was wonderfully effective as a blood
purifier, for the sores were gradually
effaced from my hands and arms, and the
cause of my legs swelling—whatever that
cause might have been —was entirely re-
moved. My illness had considerably
affected my nerves, which became shaky
whenever I was disturbed, but to my heart-
felt thankfulness I must say that Clements
Tonic was as effective on my nervous
system as it was on my other deranged
organs.”
“ What was your appetite like then ? ”
“As it was soon after commencing on
Clements Tonic—very good, indeed, and it
has remained so ever since. Hut the
strengthening qualities of my ueuly-fouud
medicine surprised me, for although my
work was very heavy I always got through
it without feeling any ill effects from the
time Clements Tonic cured me, and I have
not once had the faintest return of any of
my old symptoms, in acknowledgment of
which I give you permission to publish my
story as it pleases you.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Georok Heathcotk, of Surry-street, Water-
loo, in the Suite of New South Wales,
Commonwealth of Australia, do solemnly and
sincerely declare that I have carefully read
the annexed document, consisting of five
folios, and consecutively numbered from one
to five, and that it contains and is a true and faithful
account of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic,
and also contains my full permission to publish in any
way my statements - which I give voluntarily,
without receiving any payment ; and I make this
solemn declaration conscientiously believing the
same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of
the Oaths Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Waterloo, «n 3 nine-
teenth day of April, one thousand nine hundred and
two, before me,
B. G. CAMPBELL, J.P.
AUSTRALIAN
GENERAL ELECTRIC
COMPANY,
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, Melbourne and Sydney.
Sales of Thomson Recording 1
Wattmeters: —
Year. Number Sold.
1894 16,900
1895 ... ... 23,600
1896 ... ... 26,600
1897 ... 36,300
1898 54,000
1899 80,500
1900 90,100
1901 99,500
Adopted by the Victorian Government as
Standard. General Electric Incandescent
Lamps, Motors, Dynamos, and all other
Electric Machinery and Supplies are also
Standard and The Best.
The VOLCANIC
DERATING
MACHINE
£23}
W. JAMES, Proprietor,
A Great
Saying
. . . TO
HOTELKEEPERS,
CAFE PROPRIETORS, ETC ,
iCRATED WATERS of the Highest Quality
produced with the utmost rapidity
WITHOUT SKILLED LABOR.
Absolutely the best and simplest
Machine in the market. g*~ Price
£3O
TUBES CONTAIN 57ibs. GAS. ~~
CYLINDERS CONTAIN lOGals. WATER.
VALVE ACTS AUTOMATICALLY.
Write for Descriptive Pamphlets with Testimonials
from people who have used the Machine for years.
Office : 101 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE.
Depot: 130 CECIL ST., SOUTH MELBOURNE.
GOOD KAIR FOR
ALL!
All Chemists
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND'S PARASENE.
US' For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
m’ For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d. ; postage, 9u. extra.
2.
$
c/2
Washington H. Sour, & Co.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT
HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE
S. FREEMAN # SONS [^IMITEP
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHOS BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN'S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
heap office : WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
DRUNK
ENNESS
CURED
Absolutely Conquered in 20 Days.
ligTSee my proposition to the Government,’
November Bth, igoi, wherein I agree to
accept ioo Test Cases, and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home treatment
within the reach of all. No restrictions no
hypodermic injections. Full particulars free
W. LANGSTON, M.R.c s. Eng .
68 Russell St., Melbourne.
“BUSHMAN”
WATCH
They are Dust Proof.” iy «
~ ~ Lever Movement. * * ®
~ ~ Compensa;ionX6a!ance.
~ ~ Accurately Adjusted. I
CHARLES READ & CO.
420 Ceorge-st., Syc'ney.
Gun
Metal
Case.
BLOW FLIES.
The ONLY destroyer— The “Buzz
Window Trap, with Faulding'
Insect Powder. All Stores.


HOW TO KEEP COOL.
We stiongly recommend all who suffer
from the heat to add a few drops of Condy’s
Fluid to the Daily Bath or Foot Bath.
A Condy’s Fluid Bath imparts a most
delightful sensation of coolness, freshness
and purity, it invigorates the body and
braces the nerves. The strengthening and
cooling effects are Simply Magical. Tired
or Tender feet are instantly relieved. Book
on bottle contains full directions.
Condy’s Fluid is sold by all Chemists
throughout the British Empire. Beware
ef substitutes. Insist on having “Condy’s
Fluid.’’ Condy & Mitchell, of London,
England, are the only Makers and their
name and address is at foot of label.
Mi
WEAK-SICHTCP REAPERS^-
Who are unable to read small printed matter, or to see fine
stitching or writing with comfort, whose distant vision is dull
and who suffer from persistent headaches or pains after close
application —you may rest assured that you are suffering from
Ageing or Impaired Vision, and Need Glasses. You
should visit us, and have your sight scientifically tested, and
be supplied with Glasses adapted to your individual case.
IU COUNTRY READERS who cannot visit us personally, we send, Post Free to any full instruc-
tions and Price List, our marvellously-accurate and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURINu PATENT. by its use
you can Test your own sight and determine for yourself the style and quality of the glasses you may neea.
Write for it to—
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Consulting Optician
371 George St., Sydney,
And at 232 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, opposite Aon Office.
next door to the A.J.S. Bank.
King and George Streets.
Hotel
Australia
RATES:
12s. 6d. per Day,
and upwards.
“ THE AUSTRALIA ” is loftily situated ; from
its dome, the Pacific Ocean can be seen, and the
whole of Sydney.
To its favorable and airy position, “THE
AUSTRALIA ” adds every comfort and appoint-
ment. It is fireproof from tower to basement;
and an efficient staff patrols the building day and
night. It possesses the most elegant of drawing-
rooms, handsomely appointed dining-rooms, cosy
bar lounges and winter gardens. The system
and attendance of the hotel are unsurpassable.
J. URE SMITH (Late of Menzies’), -Manager.
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Wanted—to know a Customs-mistake case
in which the clerk of the poor harassed importer
has over-paid duty.
Bent’s abolition of free railway passes for
railway employees on leave in Victoria amounts
practically to another reduction in their wages.
Free education is one of the foremost
planks on N.S.W. Labor Party’s platform, yet on
Tuesday night week, when the Free Education
Bill was counted out, there were but three
members of that party in the Chamber, McGowen,
Griffith and Edden.
Philp the Unstable says that he is full-up
of Federation and that Queensland is with him.
Well, let him try a straightforward referendum
(one white person one vote) on these issues :
1. Are you tired of Federation ?
2. Are you tired —dog tired—of Philp and co. t
Tom Mann (Eng.), King O’Malley (Tas.),
J. C. Watson (N.S.W.), and Senators Stewart,
Pearce and Page (Q.), rendered valuable service to
Vic. Labor candidates at the recent election.
Indications are that if the Labor party had
a tempted more it would have accomplished more.
In N.S.W. Parliament :
Mr. Crick : Whilst we are here, the reign of newspapers
is done.
Mr. Ashton : You gave them all billets.
Mr. Crick : If you want to poison a dog, you must give
it something to eat.
Neat, but not reported in Sydney D.T.
George Reid at Colac (Vic.) : “Protection
is the survival of the old primitive instinct of
savage and barbarous peoples to grab from others
without giving.” And Freetrade in Australia
lms been a survival of the primitive instinct of a
simple people to sell their birthright for a string
of glass beads.
Not too much importance is to be attached
to the fact that Melbourne Age now partially damES
Federation ; the Syme always was at heart anti-
Federal. Had he not been a business man first
and an anti-Federalist afterwards he would have
m ide the same mistake in Victoria as the D.T. did
in N.S.W.
Vic. Ministry, while agreeing to Minister
Bent’s savage assault on railway employees’ pass
privileges, refuses to sanction the abolition of
executive councillors’ lifelong free passes and calls
them “a trifling advantage.” War on the poor
man’s penny for the preservation of the plutocrat’s
pound—that is the Irvine policy in a nut-shell.
M. Speaker, Maurice O’Rorke, gave a
dig to Seddon, as well as spoke to the point, when
he told the House of Reps., in a closing-session
speech, that “it would puzzle the historian of the
future to account for the desire of the people of
M.L. to federate with the dusky-skinned Fijians
instead of with their white brethren of Aus-
tralia.”
One result of the Age and Argos coalition
to crush Liberalism and the working classes is to
emphasize the growing want of a good democratic
daily. The alteration in the Age’s circulation
since the election campaign must have been big.
The civil service has quietly thrown it over, as
well as many disgusted democrats, who could not
stand its slobbering of a man like Gillies.
N. Premier See has given notice of a
Reform Bill which, it is expected, will pro vide for
the election of a convention to draft a new State
constitution, and a subsequent referendum on the
result. No better or straighter or more sensible
method of reform could_ be devised —if only John
See is in earnest, and his Bill isn’t allowed to get
lost down one of the many cracks in Parliament.
“ When you see unity between these two
great organs (Argus and Age), it is time for the
people of this country to become suspicious of
what they are supporting. Because, lying out at
the back of their united support is usually some
ulterior design upon the liberties of the people.
—John Murray, now Chief- Secretary in the Irvine
Argus-Ageocracy in Vic. Leg. Assembly, Aug., IJUU.
The first items on the programme of Vic-
torian candidate J. W. Foster Rogers :
(1) We must not borrow for any purpose except for
renewing existing loans. . , ,
(2) We must gradually reduce our State debt by about
£200,000 a year.
Rogers didn’t get in. A man with sensible ideas
like that seldom gets in.
The “reform movement” in N.S.W. was
represented at a Sydney meeting, last week, by
Messrs. G. W. S. Dean (a boss Kyabramapootra
who has come over from Victoria to spread the
light of Bentism), R. Reid, M.L.C. (Vic.),
Critchley-Parker (yah !) Mararthur-Onslow, Felix
Randle, W. C. Goddard, J. Stinson, and F.
Wegg-Horne. What a noble crew of hyphenated
and landlordlv personages to guide the old-hen-
with - the- woolly-legs movement in N.S.W. !
Signifi ant that, while Shiels at the Vic.
post-election smoke-night classified election results
as Ministerial responsibility, economic reform,
and crushed civil service, he did not even allude
to the reform of the Leg. Council as to qualifica-
tions of members and electors, although these
questions, being contained in Irvine’s Reform Bill,
were quite as much before the electors and quite
as fully the subject-matter of the pledges given to
the electors by the Irvineites, as the three items
referred to.
The game of Brisbane Courier just now
is to push Premier Philp out of the Q.
Premiership. Almost every week that journal
prints a biting article insinuating (and sometimes
openly asserting) that if Mr. Philp is too weak to
hold the reins, there are others quite willing and
able to do it for him. Attorney-General Rutledge
is, of course (for family reasons), the Courier s
fancy man.
Importer M‘Millan’s whine to a D.T.
interviewer because his minority wasn’t allowed
to run the Federal show reads a very poor-spirited
affair. When M’Millan’s crowd of sweaters
carries its measures by a big majority he always
says that it has the confidence of the country, and
the heart of the people is with it. And when the
majority is against him he says that the other
fellow is ruling by “ brute force.”
Curious that while Melbourne dailies de-
nounce the Labor Party as the party of ruinous
extravagance, they agree in denouncing the
Federal Labor Party for compelling Federal
expenditure to be paid out of income and not out
of loans. To harmonise the denunciations it is
necessary to define ruinous extravagance as the
folly of paying one’s own debts when one has a
helpless posterity to assume the liability.
Queensland Leg. Council passed the In-
come Tax Bill by 17 votes to 16, despite the fierce
injunctions of both Telegraph and Courier to
throw it out at all cost. The dreary old councillors
hated the Bill like poison and thought the scan-
dalous poll-tax its only redeeming feature, but the
exigencies of a deficit-stricken State forced their
hand. Moreover, rumor has it they were threat-
ened with a Land Tax in case of recalcitrance.
Q. Premier Philp is the vicarious politician
who at first was “ agin ” Federation ; then gave
it lukewarm support; later, fearing that Dickson
was taking the wind out of his sails, he was for
Federation at any price and stumped the country
in its favor. He spoke from the same platform as
the (by him) detested Labor members, and heard
them avow, time and again, that Federation
meant an honest endeavor to have a White Aus-
tralia. Now Philp thinks that he didn’t know
it was loaded and cries for the moon.
One of Minister Lyne’s reasons for the
proposed expensive tour of Australia by a ship-
load of Federal politicians is that “ Members
should see the Northern Territory, for instance.”
Perhaps they should, but nothing that they see or
don’t see there can make any difference in the
necessity for the Commonwealth taking the Terri-
tory over. However bad it may be, it is part of
Australia and we have to make the best of it. So
us good an idea as any would be to take it over
first and go and look at it afterwards.
The James Ministry (W.A.) is trying to
'..fuse a little life into a rather dead constitution.
Its Reform Bill provides
(1) For a redistribution of seats on a population basis,
or something approaching it.
(2) Reduction of the Council to 24 and Assembly to 47
members, and the Ministry to five members.
(3) Every Minister to be allowed to vote only in the
House to which he belongs, but to be allowed to sit and
speak in either House.
(4) A double dissolution in case of deadlock, and a joint
sitting of the two Houses if the deadlock still continues.
WITHOUT PROVOCATION.
THE COURT: “But did you give no ‘provocation?"
THE COMPLAINANT: “ Divil a bit, your Worship. Cornin’ forninst him, I sez, sez I: ‘I ain’t
goin' to quar'll void you, you dirty, low scut! Don’t think ye can provoke me to fight,’
sez I, ‘becaze I wouldn’t dirthy me hands wid the likes of such a thavin ’ mongrel! ’ Wid
that I tuck him a skelp wid a bit of a brick, an’ not another wor-rd was said."
Sydney City Council election muddle
shows what a lot of use the Leg. Council is as a
guardian against “ hasty legislation.” The origi-
nal Act forgot to allow time for printing the
rolls, the time for collection of names being up to
Sept. 30, while the printed rolls had to be “ex-
hibited” on Oct. 1. The Upper House didn’t
notice it. A hurried amending Bill was rushed
through in 1901 to provide for the election that
year, with just one week to spare, and the matter
was promptly forgotten. In 1902 the Consoli-
dated Act dealing with municipal elections
perpetuated the blunder. Again the Upper
House didn’t notice. Now another amending
Act has to be hastily carried in order to hold the
elections this year. It would seem that the
necessity is not so much for a second Chamber as
for a .first Chamber that will attend to its business
properly.
It is a fact worth noting
that the coming States of the
world, the ones that are con-
stantly held up as models, and
the ones whose rivalry we are
taught to dread, are all Pro-
tectionist. The United States,
Canada, Argentina and Ger-
many are, in fact, about the
most intensely Protectionist
States on earth. There is no
rising Freetrade State any-
where which troubles us by
its rapid expansion and its
overwhelming rivalry. All
the nations whose growth
disturbs Britain in her sleep
are Protectionist. And they
all began to disturb Britain
only since they became Pro-
tectionist. There was no rush
of American compet-tion, and
no “Made in Germany”
bogey in the Freetrade or
semi-Free trade days of those
countries, and Argentine
rivalry didn’t keep Australia
awake o’ nights when Argen-
tina was a Freetrade republic.
The demand for new
men for N.S.W. Supreme
Court Bench raises the old
question of appointing solici-
tors to the office. The dividing
line between barristers and solicitors is mam y
imaginary, and, under recent State legislation, is
almost wholly wiped out. Making the Supreme
Court and District Court Bench a preserve tor
barristers looks like an offensive sample o
monopoly.
Victorian railway men who are being called
upon to pay out of their wages so huge a P r °P° r ‘
tion of the cost of the S’African .war and the
Ducal visit are being ironically reminded of some
“patriotic” poetry published in their .Railway
News in 1900, beginning . „
Who’s going to be a soldier and a railway volunteer r
Who’s going to don the khaki for the land we hold dear t
March, march in quickstep to the band,
Like soldiers of our native land ?
Australians all, come, bravely stand —
The Railway Volunteers.
But it’s not safe to quote that within striking dis-
tance of a railway official now.
Already Melb. Argus, inspired by mem-
bers of the Iceberg Goyt., is talking of shelving
the constitutional reforrh scheme for the present
session, and there is little doubt that Premiei
Irvine will do so as soon as he feels that he may
with safety. So long as there is an anti-Fao-
tories Act majority in the Assembly, pledged also
to saddle the public servant with the responsi-
bility of a very large proportion of the general
taxpayer’s evasion of his liabilities, the Irvine and
Argus Conservatives care absolutely nothing for
the constitutional reform principle. People in
the know predict that the promised double disso-
lution will never come off, and that the Leg.
Assembly will face the electors about three years
hence on precisely the same basis as at present,
and with reform still in the air.
N.S.W. Labor Party should put the
coping-stone on its truly wonderful political
machine by making some provision for muzzling
Dacey and one or two other self-assertive poseurs.
No machine is quite perfect of which a crank can
occasionally go out on a little trip of its own and
hit things that ought not to be hit. The Labor
Party is the locomotive of the N.S.W. Parliamen-
tary train, but wisely likes to make out that it is
only the guard’s-van, or the, baggage-compartment,
or the dog-box, and that the real running power
is in the luxuriously fitted-up Pullman inhabited
by the Ministers. Occasionally, however, Mr.
Dacey, or some other Labor member, blurts out
the truth, and no matter how quickly the others
say “Ssh,” tbere is a snort from the Pullman
and a rough jolt in the running. A party
which is so cute in other respects can surely devise
effectual means of suppressing the unwise candor
of an occasional member.
PORE LITTLE BUFFER!
The Victorian political situation as described by the AGE:
“You see, it’s like this ’ere : the Labor Party goes to plunk Irvine, and’
Irvine finding hisself in a hole, as you might say, looks around for some-
thin”' to defend hisself. Seein’ nothing else, what does he do but, quick as
lightning whips up the other fellow’s 'elpless little kid as was play in by,
and to save ’is own skin, ’olds up the pore little infant in front of ’im, and
afore the other was aware the awful blow that was to land Irvine squelched
the pore child.”
Despite Seddon’s failure at the Imperial
Conference to drag the States of Australia, into'
what Laurier called “the vortex of militarism,”
there is a suspicion in M.L. that the last has not
been heard of the matter. Seddon is the white-haired
boy with the conscriptionist Jingoes at ’Ome, and
it is just probable that he brings back with him
the draft of a scheme prepared by Chamberlain
“ to tighten the silken bonds.” This would please
Seddon for many reasons, but it would fit in best
of all with his desire to contrast Maoriland with
the Australian Commonwealth.
There’s no more bitter animosity in the
world than that between Irish Roman Catholics
and English Roman CWtholics; it spreads even
to Australia. In Britain just now Michael Davitt
is keeping the sentiment alive by referring to the
Cfertholics as the “deadly malignant foes of the
Irish Nationalist movement.” Those who fear
that Irish Home Rule will mean Rome Rule fly
in the face of history. It was Rome Rule that
first deprived Ireland of her Home Rule, and the
most conspicuous agitator* of the Irish Nationalist
movement have been Protestants.
Attorney-General Wise’s actions and critics
show the need of allowing a Minister to appear in
either House. Effective Government requires
effective control and management of both Houses,
but under the present system a member of the
Government who sits in one House is treated
as a stranger in the other. Wise worked the
Industrial Arbitration Bill through the Leg.
Assembly, but to get it through the Council .he
had to give up his Assembly seat. In the I ried-
man case his presence was needed in the Assembly,
but the Constitution was in his way.
Despite the Irvine Govt.’s insistence on
its candidates being pledged to support its
measures, the workers will find out when too late
that it will be only the members with any lean-
ings to Labor who will be held to their pledges.
Men like Madden and Gillies will be given
carte blanche to break their promises when
the Irvine Government’s proposals to reduce the
qualifications of members of the Council and to
dissolve both Houses in the event of disagreement
are under discussion. The workers who voted for
the Irvineites will then h e sorry they believed the
Age.
The Maoriland Parliamentary session just
closed is the shortest ordinary one held for years,
and the Tory press has been loud in its praises of
Oily Ward’s marvellously successful leader-
ship. His tact, his firmness, his winning ways,
have been the theme of columns and columns of
eulogy, till even the most thorough-going demo-
crat began to wonder if Oily Joe was not a heaven-
born leader. But even a Tory press cannot keep
a secret long, and now the work is done the cat’s
head begins to protrude from the bag. .Mixed
with the praise of the Oily one’s leadership are
rejoicings that the measures calculated to provoke
“unrest” and “class differences” have been
quietly laid aside, and that there lias, been an
entire absence of “revolutionary legislation.”
The “absence of revolutionary legislation!”—
that’s it. Not only has Joe abstained from the
cursed thing, but he has remitted taxation, and a
larger proportion of works and repairs are to be
charged to loans, the interest of which will, in the
future, do a lot to wreck even the revolutionary
legislation that was passed aforetime. No wonder
the Fat organs whoop for Ward.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other. Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.


OUR NEW
COLLARETTE
SHOE
(PHOTOGRAPHED)
BY POST
to any address
in these States
Please
Read
Letter
Below
V
NO
RISK
IN
FIT
“Messrs. CALLAGHAN & SON,
Gentlemen, —Enclosed please find
balance due to you for shoes. lam
pleased to say that your shoes are very
satisfactory, being by far the best I have
received from Sydney or elsewhere, at the
, price. Will recommend my friends to try your
establishment. If you have a price list, please
forward one. Yours faithfully,
June 27, 1902. T. A. M., Mundooran.
Note.—The shoe sent to this lady was our Collarette
Shoe.—C. &S.
12/11
POST FREE
DUTY FF EE
13/6
/"AMERICAN GLACE KID SHOE for
-{ LADIES, with Dressy Patent Leather
Toe-Cap, and new fashioned Collarette.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 ceorce st., Sydney.
•m
4>
0 *
tr+
“ Is it all right, Ethel ? ”
“ Yes, mamma. Don’t move—it’s splendid ! ”
Such an expression of satisfaction and pleasure is universal with all who
use any of Harrington’s Photographic Outfits. Our Cameras represent the
world’s best makers, and comprise the latest and best styles, ranging at
almost any price from 5/* up to £5O. Every conceivable Photo.-requisite.
HARRINGTON & CO., Ltd.
66 King=st., Sydney ; and
93 Queen=st., Brisbane.
IMPORTANT TO MINERS.
KIDNEY TROUBLES and
ITALARIAL FEVER
CURED BY. .
VITADATIO
Warwick, Queensland, May 28, 1901.
Sir, —Doubtless you will be glad to receive another
testimony to the efficacy of your valuable remedy—
VITADATIO.
About twelve months ago I went to the Ebagoolah
Goldfields, and hence to New Guinea, full of health and
hope, but it was not long before I became a victim to that
fearful climate, which completely undermined my health.
I was treated in Northern Queensland in two hospitals
without success, finally', and with difficulty that would
take too long to detail, I reached Brisbane, when I secured
your remedy, which I am glad to say at once produced a
magical effect, and ultimately restored me to health and
vigour.
I am delighted to be able to write thus, and would
suggest that you publish this in the papers circulating in
New Guinea, where I am so well-known.
I am not a doctor, but I believe my trouble was a
severe disorder of the kidneys, caused by and attended
with Malarial Fever.—Yours trulv,
(Signed) ANDREW JAMIESON.
To S. A. PALMER, Vitadatio, 28/5/1901.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
lSd Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The Price of Medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
Newman’s
Antiseptic Pastilles.
Tub Best for all Affections of the Throat.
TRY THEM. PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
S. HARRIS, M. P. S., Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Telephone 2288. 82 KING-ST., SYDNEY.
The Veterinarian.
ALWAYS
£Ws YOUf s
The
Standard
Preparations
of ... .
SALVITIS
RESTORING AND CONSERVING
THE HEALTH OF
Horses Pigs
Cattle Poultry
Sheep Dogs
SHOULD
BE TRIED !
Used by Leading Stockowners.
SALVITIS INDEX of DISEASES
To be had of Storekeepers, etc.
Direct Agents for New South Wales—
E. RICH & COHPANY, Ltd., SYDNEY
a
ON OUR SELECTION,”
By STEELE RUDD.
Price, 6«.; postage, Sd.
wm ■
“/fever njind baby / Jt will soon grow nowS
‘H ARLENE’
S HAIR.
The very Finest Dressing.
Restores the Hair.
Promotes the Growth.
Arrests the Fall.
Strengthens the Roots.
Preserves the Hair.
Renders It Beautifully Soft.
Removes Dandruff.
Allays all Irritation.
Preserves, Strengthens, and Invigorates
Childrens’ Hair.
Full description and directionsfor use in
20 languages supplied with every bottle.
1/», 2/6,and (triple 2/6 size) 476 per
Bottle from Druggists, &c„ all over
the YVorld.
Edwards’ Harlene Co.
High Hoiborn, London, Eng.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION-.
WINES ne Bat *£* °* ° J SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
i
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
i FURRED TONGUE.
i •
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
Carter's
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
There’s SECURITY in
They TOUCH the
Be
_ . ■= Small PilL Small Dose - Sma!l p rico*
LIVER
Sure they are Carter’s
led
fGieJp
S&Z
The
cog
CORSETS
The Recognised Standard
High-Glass Corsets
LATEST SPECIALTY
STRAIGHT FRONT
NOUVELLE FORM
Obtainable from Leading
Drapers Everywhere.
Avoid Inferior Imitations, and see that
each pair bears the Manufacturer’s “Trade
Mark ” on band inside, as above.


Banking:, Public Companies, teo.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
&
&
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
3xr-s."W-
-[ljont deplete D.*l|.C°->[itd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74
CASTLEREAGH ST.,
SYDNEY
74
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
-—THIS—-
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - • 105 Pitt Street. Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Mili.kr.
Accumulated Funds, £-2,595,870.
Policies issued 88,299—assuring £26,826,380.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,767,115.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—eouitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
f ile Bank of fiorth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250 900 ... £350.000
lit” Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMI Till).
CAPITAL PAID-UP £451,307
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 181,859
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 56,000
£689,166
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Queensland Smelting Compy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
-D Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 62 Market-street, Melbourne.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £15,000, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties,
and £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Direstors—Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Oo.), Hon. John See, Lt.-001. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australia,
131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amoun tof Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £2,500,000
The Permanent Trustee Co. of
N.S. Wales Limited.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF PARLIAMENT.
THE Fifteenth ORDINARY GENERAL
MEETING of the Members will be held in
the Royal Exchange on FRIDAY, 17th OCTO-
BER, 1902, at Noon.
BUSINESS.
To receive Reports and Balance Sheet to 30th
September, 1902.
To elect one Director in place of Hon. F. T.
Humphery, M.L.0., who retires (under
Clause 77 of the Articles of Association)
and who offers himself for re-election.
To elect two Auditors in lieu of W. Clarke and
Fredk. Phillips, Esqrs., who retire, but are
eligible for, and seek, re-election.
To consider any other business, of which due
notice shall have been given in accordance
with the Articles of Association.
A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD,
3rd October, 1902. Manager.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) £9576 13 4
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BOItROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant, Manasrei
HIMSELF CURED
Mr, Robert E.
PARKHURST
of Pitt St., Sydn y, says if apy sufferer from DEBILITY
KIDNEY or BLADDER DISEASE will write him he will inform
them of the perfect home cure that did the work in hi« case.
Shipping.
HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian)
Victorian <& Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Peregrine, Saturday, Oct. 18, 2 p.m.
Buninyong, Tues., Get. 21, 5 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Gabo, Tuesday, Oct. 28, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Gabo, Tuesday, Oct. 28, 5 p.m.
(No Transhipment.)
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Tyrian, Saturday, Oct. 18, 2 p.m.
Konoowarra,Tues., Oct. 21, 5 p.m.
GLADSTONE
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Tyrian, Saturday, Oct. 18, 2 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, Oct. 25, 2 p.m.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked throuirh.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London .
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
NINEVEH .. ..
MORAVIAN
AUSTRALASIAN
N. Allan
A. Simpson
T. F. Spalding
Noon, Oct. 24.
Noon, Nov. 14.
Noon, Dec. 5
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. £55 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. £3l 10s .. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £l2O.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
Huddart, parker & (Jo’s [ine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HORAR'T,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Pares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
A.KTU
LIKTE
A
via
San Francisco,
California.
NEW
SERIES
OF
EXCURSIONS
TO THE
RIVIERA
OP
AMERICA.
FIRST-CLASS THROUGHOUT.
COSTS £6O.
Covering Return Passages, Steamer and Rail, Hotel
Expenses in San Francisco, and Hotel Del Monte,
Southern California, about Ten Days’ stay in America,
with liberty to remain longer. Steamers leave as
follows
IHE Directors of the PERPETUAL
J- TRUSTEE COMPANY, Limited,
Sydney, have TRUST FUNDS to LEND
in sums from £3OO to £50,000 on security of
revenue-producing City and Suburban Properties
or Country Broad Acres, at from 4 per cent.
Special facilities given for payments in reduction
without fine or notice.
No. 56 ACETYLENE GAS Catalogue
mm\
is the MOST COMPLETE
and COMPREHENSIVE
ever issued.
Tells all about the Best
ACETYLENE CAS GENER-
ATORS, LAMPS, and
everything in connection
with ACETYLENE.
Nearly 400 of our
Reliable Automatic
Acetylene Gas
Generators
In daily use.
Large Stocks of the
Best
Carbide
of Calcium
Quotations on application.
James MARTIN & CO.
161 Clarence Street,
Nr. King-st., Sydney.
EVERY WOMAN
S*
S 3
Ss
is interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new Vaginal Syringe.
Injection and Suction. The best,
safest and most convenient.
It Cleanses Instantly.
If your druggist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated Book, sent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies. Endorsed l)y Physicians.
MARVEL CO., Times Building, N. Y.
Sole Australasian Agents—
The Marvel Co. of Australia,
(Box 623 G.P.0.) CAnDEN BUILDINGS,
418 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
TOILET
SOAP
BEST FOR THE SKIN and
COMPLEXION.
Antiseptic, Emollient. Refreshing.
Sold by Chemists, Stores, &c.
F. C. CALYERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
Medical.
A CERTAIN CURE for GRANULATIONS
and DIMNESS of SIGHT.
ROSE’S CELEBRATED
Eye Lotion.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers.
THE GREAT
/ OVERSEA )
\ OVERLAND /
HIGHWAY
TO THE UNITED KINGDOM,
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, and AMERICA.
The NEWEST, LARGEST (6000 Tons each), FASTEST,
and ONLY TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS engaged in
the TRANS-PACIFIC PASSENGER SERVICE from
Australia and New Zealand.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
OCEANIC STEAM SHIP CO., ETD.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts. SYDNEY.
JXT. ID. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OP
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-screw steamer.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
Interstate First Glass Return Tickets are now available
for Return by the Steamers of the P. and 0., Orient
Pacific, or M.M. Co.'s.
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.B. STETTIN, 26th NOVEMBER,
And Regularly Thereafter.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
"ALL-RED” ROUTE.
STEAMERS SAIL :
Nov. 3, Dec. 1, Dec. 29.
The Cheapest Route
The Quickest Route
The Scenic Route
TO
LONDO IST.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
RUPTURE «
Throw away
your Tims.
without
operation or pain,
no detention from work, or depend-
ence upon Trusses. The only
humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
Treatise No. 10. Address:
SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C.S., ENG.,
Cor Russell & Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE!.
A FORTUNE TO BE MADE.—THE AUTOMATIC
MACHINE CO., 163 E 32nd St., New York, wants
everywhere agents for American novelties and inventions,
as well as collectors to place and supervise their penny-
in-the,slot machines in spare time, sharing profits.
Special knowledge unnecessary.*
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSS-ITCr;!.' ~~VIOE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOE MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhippingat Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Rockton,
Friday, October 17.
S.S. Wollowra,
Saturday, October 25.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. War re wo, Sat., Oct. 18.
S.S. Rockton, Sat., Oct. 25
S.S. Allinjra, Friday, Oct. 31.
S.S.lnnamincka, Sat., Nov.l
Best and Cheapest Monte to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. Ooy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINIS.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOIVfcoWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Maokay,
Bowen, Townsville, Caigns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Twice weekly, via Bris-
bane, Maryborough, and Bundaberg.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Brls
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Nornranton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
via MELBOURNE—Fortnightly.
Passenffer A ccoinmodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., Agents, 10 Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
P. AND o
COMPANY’S
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting- at Port Said with the 20-lcnot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
♦ Leaving Wednesday at 5 p.m. instead of Saturday on
account of the Melbourne races.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B to £77
Ditto Ditto Return, £66 to £ll5
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific,
Messageries Mari times and N.D.L. Steamers having room.
EDWARD TRELAWNY,
63 Pitt-street. Superintendent in Australia.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with tha
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77.
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and 0.,
Orient Pacific and N.D.L. steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
“E. AND A.” LINE.
. . TO . .
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Steamer.
GUTHRIE
EASTERN
AIRLIE
AUSTRALIAN
Tns
2500
3600
2500
30001
Commander. ILeave Sydney.
A. E. Dabelle .. October 18
Winthrop Ellis ~|November 15
St. John George..lDecember 6
P. T. Helms .. January 3
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with EVERY CON-
VENIENCE FOR TROPICAL TRAVELLING.
Through bookings to points in Canada, United States
of America and Europe at special rates.
Doctor and Stewardess carried.
Lowest Fares and Freights.
For further information apply to
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.,
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
SMOKE
TiiXi
4
*
%
&
&
INSIST
on having this Brand
and no other,
Largest Depot:
231 CLAR€NC€ STR€€T
SYDNEY.


The foreman of the jury which tried an
obscure embezzler at last Melbourne Criminal
sittings, relates that, on retiring to the jury-room,
he asked “ What do you think of it?” “Well,”
said a grizzled old juror, scratching his head, “ this
young fetter never done me any harm.” As a
contrast, was the remark of a big miner of Bendigo,
at the opening of a sensational murder trial a
couple of years back. “ What sort o’ men do they
put on the jury ?” he asked, indignantly; “ What’s
Johnson put on for ? What’s the good o’ he ?
They want men o’ intelligence. Now, I’d hang
that man right off ! ”
“Buzz”: The aggressive virtue of the
unmarried lady of 60 summers is not always with-
out sincerity. One morning lately, in a suburb
where the boarding-house system is a disease, a
landlady was discoursing to an elderly maiden
lodger on the shifts to which Brown—a lodger
then under a cloud —was put, even to the extent
of retiring to his lonely couch in the altogether,
because his only pair of pyjamas were at the wash.
“ Do you mean to tell me that he goes to bed
without—without them, ! M The landlady nodded.
“ Then it is quite time that I left the house,” was
the reply, and forthwith she packed her little cap
and nightgown, and departed to a house where,
let us hope, all the lodgers have them.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising Yankee Rubber Baby, can be carried in vest
pocket and blown out to life-size (causes roars of
laughter), Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Casket, Book of
Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Coin and Card
Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard Fish (gives
the definition of your character), The Mafeking Grub (or
nerve-strengthener), and, last of all, that side-splitting
Look and Laugh Glass, Instructions enclosed.
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
H. L. HUTCHINSON,
X
YORK NOVELTY CO.,
710 Geonje-streeb, SYDNEY.
RAT,SAM OF HOREHOUUD
OLD'S
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
For Coughs and Colds.
Every Dose Effective.
Will Cure when Others Fail.
For Pain in the Side.
Best for Influenza.
In Bronchitis and Loss of Voice.
Whooping Cough and Croup.
For Children, Safe and Sure.
Beanie’s Bronchitis Core.
the famous RE MBUir EOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE * LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pam o
s ss S thrChest Lperienhe delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Comp ete Cure It is most com
588 in tne unesc, exp y voice. and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption lia
Sre7a= a Cough or Aatb.ua to become chronic nor Consumption to develop. Consumption h.
never beenknownto eiist where “ Coughs >’ have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient
and a Complete Cure is certain. BEWARE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A La4y in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA-
CURED BY„ ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE'S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
“Mr. Hearrie.—
“Dear Sir,—l enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
»f London, England, Rom which you will glean that
pour medicine has been*a perfect God-send to a martyr to
(olds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
ie mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
(ortion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
and. You can see for yourself what an immense success
it was.—Yours faithfully,—'
Extract from letter a.lluded to above :
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent.. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
nuph interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
»ff the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
'roin a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
mpplied privately f when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS' TORTURE.
IELLEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE'S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED B,Y *
TWO BOTTLES.
“Dergholm, Victoria.
“ Dear Sir,—l wish to add my testimony to the won,
lerful qffect'of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
ponths, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
! was obliged to get up and sit by the fiye. I had medical
xlviee, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
rours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
Irst dose, and though I have'had but two bottles I feel I
im a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
nay depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
ronderful remedy to anyone.! see afflicted.
“Yours faithfully, ‘
'“JAMES ASTBURY."
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
learne’s Bronchit.is Cure, and we certify that it was per-
ectly and rapidiv successful under circumstances which
mdoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
he Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
Ifty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS.
"I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, find it cured eaoh of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria."
“Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but lam sending for another bottle in case I should want it.—D. M‘DONALD, Trip key, via
Quirindi, N.S.W.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMJIONS, No. 7 Repny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
/ •
« jiy wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
both a wqnderful deal of good, it having quickly cured us both.—R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
Victoria.”
0
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me..—(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
•
«I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.”
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. 3he diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.—j. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S. W."
•
<< My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.— C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
Oueen-street, Melbourne.”
* •
“ i lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous. —F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydnej', N.S.W.”
0
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria.”
©
“ Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine. —(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
•
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.—
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” 0
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
“ I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the b*st I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.—S,
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” 0
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine,
but I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of my brief trial.—JOHN C.
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
“ Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good ; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well.— H. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.”
0
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
0
“ Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness.—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
0
“ The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.—CHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch’s
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
"The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
"Dear Mr. Rearne, —The silent workers are frequentl,
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victorii
who during the last few years has been repeatedly work
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronehiti
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three yea.rs ago, was recoin
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr„ Barham, ao
countarit, Col I ins-street, and the effect that it had was si
marked that he has ever since been continually reooni
mending it to others.
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value o
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Core, which has ease<
the sufferings cf hundreds and hundreds of people evei
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE * CO.*
Queensland Testimony.
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS
“ 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. JJearne. Dear Sir,-—Please send us 9»
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose OUI
cheque to cover amount of order.
“We often hear your Bronchitis Cu|e spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he bad given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quit!
cured by three doses.
“ We are, faithfully yours,
* THOMASON, CIIATER * CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemist#.*'
Cured in Ten Day»
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEvrSPAPEU
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Ilearne, Esq. Dear Sir, —Permit me to express
my grateful, appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QU-ARRILL,
“ Editor. Geelong* Advertise*.*
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,"Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARSE, ,Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
.RAHca P.PQT Qjj ce . jf 0t 5 Fi rs t Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally ,
The SMELTING & REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
WORKS a DA.PTO, Ualse liltiwarra <56 MILES FROM SYDNEY)
1901, Limited..
SMELTERS
AND
REFINERS
01!’
SILVER
LEAD
m
MAKERS Off
S. Co. of Australia
AND
“ ILL AW ARR A”
BRANDS OF
SOFT LEAD.
As s ay Offices, Genera! Offices, Store and Sulphuric Chamber.
Highest Price paid for GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, and JEWELLERS’ SWEEP, &c. Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay.
For all information regarding Rates, apply to HEAD OFFICE, DAPTO. W. L. HOYT, Manager.
A.. E. RuHcier & Co., 40 Fitt Street;, Sydney, Forwarding Agents.
BULLION
“ Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medicaj "Record.
‘“Bengers Food*
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medical Record.
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
er’s Food
For Infants, Invalids, and the Aged . Delicious, Nutritive f and Digestible .
Benger’s l - Food is sold by Chemists, &c., Everywhere'
Extracts from Private
Letters.
“ My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult
to find. My wife sounds
the praise of * Benger’s
Pood’ everywhere.”
“If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.


Don’t shout’’
1 hear you. 1 can hear now
. as well as anybody.
" 1 How ?’ Oh. some-
thing new-The Wilson
Common-sense Ear- ■
Drum. I've a pair in m.y
ears now, you can’t see them
- they're invisible. 1 wouldn't
know 1 bad them in myself,
only that I hear all right."
The Wilson Ear-Drutn is
really a substitute for the
..working parts of the
natural ear. Has no
wire. Invisible, easy to ad
just, comfortable Totally
different from any other de-
vu * Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request
f CMAintgS, 229-231 Collins. »f„ Help.
The Popularity OF THE RED BIRD”
s due to various causes its general constitution, its lines of beauty, its strength, speed, etc., etc.
IVV' we P to one feature only— lTS BEARINGS —and ask you to believe that no other machine
o liy manufacture can boast such perfect specimens of mechanical ingenuity. The quality of a
machine is in its bearings. Try a RED BIRD for the road, and you will have solved the problem
of speed with safety and comfort.
Branches in every State. GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 Kitlg-St^Sydney.
Hardy’s Tintara Wines
Absolutely Pure; Fully Matured; 700 Medals, etc.
Adelaide:
CURRIE STREET
A
Melbourne:
COLLINS STREEI
A
Sydney:
GROSVENOR STREET
A Modern Fiend.
Never since, the Inquisition has there been his
like. His mind seems so peculiarly constructed
that he appears to delight in inflicting the
most terrible agony upon the most inoffen-
sive persons, and dealing it out to his victims
in such a manner that they are unable to
tell from whence the pain has come. His victims
fill every church-yard, and our greatest intellects
have been striving to rid the earth of his hateful
presence, but he attacks the very judge as he deals
out justice upon the bench, as if to cast derision
upon the majesty of the law. To say that no one
escapes from his clutch is a mistake, for many
have recovered. Mrs. A. Everingham, Nana
road, Grafton, speaks carefully. She says:
“Since girlhood I have suffered from severe
indigestion (the fiend we refer to), which would
catch me with an awful pain in the chest, and
made me believe that I could not live an hour. I
tried many remedies, and saw several medical
men, but their cures were not lasting. Not long
since I tried Dr. Morse’s Indian Hoot Pills. The
first bottle made me feel in good health, and I
used the second. I find they are the best remedy
I have taken and I can recommend them as such.”
Dr. Morse’s Indian Boot Pills are a perfect blood
purifier, and a positive cure for biliousness, indiges-
tion, constipation, headaches, sallow complexion,
liver and kidney troubles, piles, pimples, boils and
blotches, and for female ailments. Sold by
chemists and storekeepers, Is per bottle, or
six bottles 6s 6d. Sole proprietors, The W. H.
Comstock Co., Limited. (Australasian Depot),
58 Pitt-street, Sydney. Packed in amber bottles
and the full name blown thereon.*
Martin’s Apiol and Steel Pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia, price 4s. 6d.
Agents: Sayers, Allport, and Potter, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor, W. Martin, Pharmaceutical
Chemist, Southampton, England.*
Piles and their Cure.—The pamphlet by
Albert Sharp, “Piles and How to Cure Them,”
without operation, by the latest Cannalin treat-
ment, sent free on application to 257 George-st.,
Sydney, or E. Buckhurst, Chemist, Melbourne!
or W. Wasted, Chemist, Adelaide.*
TjlOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
Jhit is “Ellis’ Kingr Street Coffee Palace,”
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor—GEO. IV. ELLIS.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
A fielder, with early information, dropped in on
a big- bookmaker in an Australian city and asked him to
lay Sceptre tor the St. Leger. “ The race has been run,"
said the layer. “ Oh, yes, but the result is not known
yet!” Moses looked thoughtfully down his nose. “I’ll
bet you fives--£5O to £lO, £5OO to £100.” The man with
early information took it, the money was put up and the
ticket issued. Next day the papers announced the result
and the fielder dropped in to lift the money. “ The race
has not been run yet,” said Moses, calmly. “It won’t be
run for 12 months. That ticket’s for next year.” Then
the air was full of D.
* • * *
Success of Sydney nag, Kinglock, in Toorak
Handicap, Saturday, gladdened the heart of Mo., who
was not having his usual luck up to then. Though a
fairly good performer previously, Kinglock wasn’t a
favorite, and loudly-voiced hundreds to 4 went begging ;
the stable only closed on £2OO of it for fear the nag might
fluke the race. Kinglock is in Caulfield Cup with 7.6, in-
cluding penalty—lib. less than Saturday’s load. Was
bred in N.S.W. by Lochiel from Lady Kingsborough, by
Kingsborough from the Yattendon mare Hussey. Before
the Toorak, Kinglock’s record of successes oniy totalled
three—all welter races. Time (1.44) for the trip (1 mile)
isn’t extra fast, but still it is the best since Paul Pry got
home five years ago, and has only been beaten twice.
• • • •
First day’s results at Caulfield meeting put the
Derby and Cup backers of Strata Florida on velvet
without seriously alarming the disciples of Abundance.
Strata’s victory in the Guineas seemed to stamp him as a
first-class youngster. He came to the front like a race-
horse at the distance, and won bj' three lengths in a time
that has only once been beaten. But this didn’t prove
that the colt had beaten Wakeful on her merits at
Flemington a week previously ; consequently, the relative
form of Strata and Abundance is still a fairly open ques-
tion, although the former has the more attractive
appearance. Wakeful on Saturday got no bumps in
the Stakes race. She just ran away from every-
thing as usual, and finished two lengths ahead of
Abundance, who, for his part, had to make up a lot of
ground to get into second place. If both of them get
along satisfactorily in the meantime, the Derby struggle
between Abundance and Strata should establish one or
other a 3 to 1 favorite for Melbourne Cup, and possibly
one or other of them will do the Newhaven and Merriwee
trick and take the “ double.” At any rate, it should now
be good enough to take a fancy bet of 2 to 1 that the Cup
will fall to a 3-year-old. For there are others beside
Strata Florida and Abundance that might beat the heavy
weights (now that The Victory seems a “ goner ”), and
prove too good for the old ’uns in the middle division of
the handicap.
To see the leggy Duke of Grafton stride away
from his field in the Debutant Stakes was to reckon, for
the moment, that Payten’s flyer had the Maribyrnong
Plate at his mercy. A big two-year-okl that can sprint
oil the mark as smartly as one of the small-and-early sort
always strikes one as a champion. But the history of the
Debutant Stakes doesn’t favor this idea. Challenger, the
giant youngster of ’94, won the half-mile flutter in Hsec.
faster time than Duke of Grafton’s, yet Challenger finished
only fourth for the five-furlong Maribyrnong Plate. The
penalty seems to stop them—big or little—in nearly every
case. All the same, the Duke may be a rare exception.
Astounding tales are told of his private trials, and they
backed him on Saturday as though those yarns were
almost true.
This year’s Caulfield Cup promises well for the
bookmakers, seeing that none of the local horses—bar
Seclusion—has a commanding chance on recent form,
whilst the dangerous ones from other States are’
not so very dangerous as to put the local punters out of
conceit with their provincial tips. Air Motor, King-
lock, Kilt and Acrasia could be expected to beat all,
or nearly all, of the Victorian fancies, if there were no
“ startling reversals of form” where big prizes are con-
cerned. Air Motor must have a good chance to win, luck
permitting. Kilt, the Westralian, ran a respectable race
behind Wakeful last Saturday, and is, moreover, sup-
ported by some of the mare’s best friends. And Acrasia
has the recommendation of being by Gozo from little
Oerise and Blue, breeding that spells gameness and sug-
gests steady improvement in Oxenham’s mare. She may
not win, but she is pretty certain to put up a good fight
if she gets through the crowd. In considering the Caul-
field Cup before it is run, one has always to bear in mind
the probability of a scrimmage bringing a dozen unlucky
animals to grief. Among thelocal candidates present scribe
looks to The Idler, Flagship and Seaport to do something
better than their recent defeats predict for them. The
Idler has been running “ big,” hut a gelding is all the
more likely to astonish the touts when he looks to be
short of work. The Adelaide Oup performance of The
Idler, when he landed 7st. 111 b. ahead of The Victory and
Flagship, gives him a great, chance for Caulfield Cup. He
is possibly a brilliant horse, and certainly he is in clever
hands. This writer’s tip is—
Tub Idler.
Air Motor.
Kilt.
* • • «
“Old-Timer” spreads himself over a coming
event : Picking the winner of to-day’s Caulfield Cup is
the most difficult of many tough turf problems. Final
forfeits Monday left 26 in—nine of them N.S.W. top-
notchers. Though betting up to time of writing hasn’t
indicated the long-waited-for stable-move on Seclusion,
she stands her ground and is being freely nibbled at’
Combat’s winning of V.R.O. Stand Handicap of two
weeks back gives him a good chance. Latest heavily
supported one is Progedior, a 5-year-old son of Pilgrim s s
Progress, most of whose racing has been done in Tas-
mania, where he won the Hobart Oup (1 Jm.), with 7.4 up,
last January ; but that form is much discounted through
Cordon (9.5) finishing a good third in the same race.
Progedior’s third to Combat and Abington in Stand Han-
dicap, run in fast time, gives him a good show for the
Cup were it not that he seemed like winning at the home
turn and then failed. The gallop he was backed on last
Monday was miles at Epsom in 2.45. Loads of wealth
have already gone and are going on Air Motor—the bulk
of it from N.S.W.—and her running in the Toorak Handi-
cap, Saturday, impressed so much that a further heap
was forthcoming Monday, leaving the mare a scorching
hot first favorite at 6to 1. Trainer Burton, when he left
Sydney, thought Air Motor much better, than when she
won the Epsom and filled a place in the Metrop. at recent
A.J.O. meet. Acrasia has been quietly supported at out-
side figures, and though a little ’un, her prospects are not
to be ignored. She rah well iii the Epson!, finishing just
behind the placed nags after getting away last and having
none too good a passage. Just before leaving for Mel-
bourne she traversed a very fast mile, putting Air Motor’s
gallop of the same morning over the same distance com-
pletely in the shade. Summed up, this scribe’s money is
going on Air Motor or Acrasia, with Seclusion as a saver.
• * * »
Manoa-Mystery nag Monarch put up a fine
lepping feat in Hunters’ ’Chase at Rosehill Saturday.
Humping 14st. he was easily in front all the way over Si-
miles, fencing faultlessly and ! showing fine pace.’ Most of
the field just came into, the straight as winner passed the
judge. Lepping all round was much above the average.
Only one of eight fell and he was re-mounted. Members
of Sydney Hunt Club were up in most instances.
* * * *
Nineteen figured iti N.S.W. first 2-year-old race
of season, run at Rosehill, Saturday. ‘ Favorites were
Nest and Electra, with lies, The Bayonet, Kitty Grafton
and Francesca well supported. Nest was in front at the
right end, and is a compact, small, brown Ally, bred by
Mr. S. Hordern, and sold at yearling sales last April for
150 gs. Is by Gossoon (imp.) from Lady Norah by
Cadogan (imp.) from Steppe (imp.) by Saunter from
Seclusion, the dam of Hermit, and consequently related,
on the dam’s side, to Bobadil, Metal, Dalmeny, Stepniak
and Russlcv.
* * * *
I'o^3’all meet, Saturday, saw unlucky T.M.S.
run another second, making the 17th place since he
scored a win. Twelve were seconds, five thirds, and one
dead-heat—all in 12 months. There’s no mistake about
T.M.S.’s grit and capabilities, but his ill-luck is the most
pronounced in Australian turf history, and reminiscent
to an extent of the doings of Secundus, Sardonyx, and
others of years ago. T.M.S. must have cost his late
owner, leviatnan “ Oxy,” a small fortune, and looks like
lowering materially the banking account of the man (Mr.
Oatley) who has him now. His latest second should have
been a win, for the race was unquestionably his—99 of
every 100 onlookers saw that, but the stewards didn’t—
further evidence of the curse that follows the nag.
*•* * ®
Four of the successful nags on opening day
(Saturday) of V.A.T.O. meet, including Guineas and
Debutant Stakes winners, were foaled in N.S.W. Duke of
Grafton and Kinglock are trained at Rand wick.
• * * *
Fate of Mr. E. M. Clark’s Tote Bill in N.S.W.
Parliament is sealed. Mo. and “ the cloth ” are already
organising their forces and the Unholy Alliance promises
to be stronger than ever. First named has been prepared
for years and latter is working up his opposition every-
where. “ Sydney Western Suburbs Ministerial Associa-
tion ” resolved t’other day: “ That this Association ex-
presses as its conviction that the passing of a measure to
legalise the Totalisator would result in a large increase in
gambling, and be detrimental to the best interests of the
community.”
* * * *
In Sydney, on Eight-Hour Day, passengers by
train or tram or Shanks’ pony were accosted every now
and again with requests to buy a ticket in the art union—
“ £5OO for Is.” N.S.W. is getting close to a Government
lottery, having already this Labor party lottery.
* * * *
Passed out, a few weeks ago, at Croydon (Q.),
a good man and a good sport. A. D. Cameron’s was a
name to conjure with in Muttaburra and Aramac (Q.)
district some 10 years back. He was a typical westerner,
long, lean, tough and brown ; hard to beat at anything ;
splendid horseman and amateur rider, and invincible at
grass-fed meetings. Two days before his death (in Croy-
don hospital) Croydon annual race-meeting began, and
shortly after the first race an apparition in pyjamas and
bare feet climbed slowly up the grandstand steps. It
was “ A.D.”, who had dodged the hospital attendantsand
crawled out to the course for a last look at the “ great
game ” before handing in his cap and jacket.
* • * »
Recently-deceased Victorian sport, Mr. R. W.
Jex, cetat 61, trained Pell-Mell—Nellie hound Miss Walker
for big Waterloo Cup she won 26 years ago. Hazel Bloom,
Marion, Joan, Veracity, Justice, Spread Eagle, Miss
Washington, and Sentinel belonged to him at one time
and another.
* • • *
Sydney National Sporting Club, which seems to
have come to stay, opened auspiciously on Monday night
with an audience of 2000, which paid from £1 down to ss.
for its seats. The programme was a hot curtain-raiser
between bantam North, of Melbourne, and Black, of
Sydney ; and the long-looked-for scrap between Doherty
and M'Call for the heavyweight championship of Aus-
tralia. That the club is going to exercise an elevating
effect on the sport is quite evident. Referee, Harry
Becket, once middle and heavy champion of N.S.W.,
officiated from outside the ring, as was done in days of
yore at bygone Sydney Amateur Gymnastic Club, and is
done even unto this day at that swagger institution, the
National Sporting Club, London. Though purse (£300)
and expenses allowed totalled £4OO, and outlay other-
wise was heavy, there was still a substantial profit.
Seconds wore uniform—white pants and full fighting
singlets, and, altogether, the whole display was refresh-
ingly free from the usual associations of a Sydney boxing
contest.
The curtain-raiser lasted nine rounds, when
North’s superior weight and capacity for punishment
crumpled Black right up, in spite of a skilful and effective
left. Then the previous champion (Doherty) and M‘Call,
who is now a flourishing dispenser of wet at Newcastle,
got into the ring. Doherty looked fat-bellied, pallid-
skinned, and weeks short of preparation. M'Oall looked
as hard as nails and browned all over. First round was
tame and unproductive of a solitary decent smite, then
Doherty commenced to force, regardless of his own safety.
Left and right were widely extended, wing-like, leaving
the protuberant diaphragm open enough for a cart
to, back into ; but M‘Call failed to fling himself into
it. Doherty hooked frequently at long range and drove
into ithe mark and ribs of M'Call, who responded by
swinging each limb incessantly, and only using a straight
left occasionally and ineffectively. Spite of careless
fighting, Doherty led easily and looked a certain winner,
while M‘Call tired palpably. But the beer-pumper pulled
himself together, and in the fifth round a straight push
(it couldn’t be dignified by the name of a punch) with the
left collided with Doherty’s jaw, and that pot-bellied
gentleman fell down most inartistically, rolled on his
back, and lay still. M’Call had won the poorest heavy-
weight battle ever seen in Sydney.
• * *
“Jab.” : Re M‘Call-Doherty fight Monday
night. Singular, isn’t it, that Doherty almost invariably
goes under in his first battle with every fresh individual
he faces, and wins the return match. It happened with
Mick Dooley, “ Tut ” Ryan, and Peter Felix. Wonder if
M‘Call will go through the same experience ?
* * * *
“ Ban.”: Boxing (amateur especially) has at
last received a boost-up in Maoriland by the formation of
an association to foster the game. First championship
meeting in Theatre Royal, Christchurch, attracted big
houses on two nights, when about 20 amateurs contested
the various championships. The victor in the “ heavies”
was Jack Fitzsimmons, of Timaru. He a younger brother
of the redoubtable “ Bob,” but there’s nothing about him
reminiscent of the ex-world’s champion, save the face and
the grit. He stands with legs straddled almost as far
apart as he can get them, right elbow to his side, forearm
extended away from the body, and hand dangling as if
the wrist were dislocated. Compensating for his awkward
style, however, were his total indifference to punishment,
and his hearty dealing out of whack when occasion
offered. The bouts throughout the meeting, indeed,
were less remarkable for science than for straight, hard
hitting.
* » * *
The Sydney bruising boom is going strong just
now. The present week is all padded hand fighting—not
a night missed but Sunday. Melba prices were freelv
paid to witness Monday’s battle.
* * * *
Bruising struggle at Sydney Golden Gate A.C.,
Saturday night, between up-country rough-and-tumble
fighter Lynch and ex-Maori contingenter Glasson lasted
eight dull, dreary rounds. Glasson hadn’t “ fix ” enough
to fight two rounds, and shaped like a novice, despite his
alleged record of successes in Africa. Lynch, always
forceful and fierce but never effective, simply roughed his
man to a limp and broken-spirited condition, and then
the Maori “chucked it,” dog-tired and done, on the
groundless assertion that Lynch had struck him “in
holts,” and he w’asn’t going to fight longer where that
sort of thing was allowed. Glasson is billed to meet one
Maher in Sydney a week or two hence, but, as the match
wouldn’t draw beer money after last Saturday night’s
farce, it’ll probably be wiped off.
• * • •
’Rastle at Newcastle (N.S.W.) t’other day, be-
tween Indian Buttan Singh and coal-hewer Tweedie, was
the black’s from go. Catch-as-catch-can conditions
governed, with the strangling hold barred (at the solicit-
ation of Tweedie). Buttan kicked, but the miner was
obdurate. Height, weight, and condition were all on the
Indian’s side. First fall (through a “ half-Nelson ”) went
to the turbanned combination of wire and whipcord in
4Jmin. ,and offers of 4 to 1 on him led to no business.
Tweedie was helpless as a child subsequently, and next
time succumbed to a hammerlock in 9Jmin., thus ending
the match, conditions of which called for two falls out of
three. Singh could easily have won in less time, but he
evidently wanted to give the crowd something for its coin.
Tweedie has followed Singh to Melbourne for another
match, averring that he overdid his training and lost
weight unaccountably, but he would do heaps better stay-
ing at home working in the pit.
* * • •
Hasn’t been published anywhere in Australia
yet that whilom N.S.W. champion swimmer Read (of
whom so much was expected in England, and who did so
little comparatively) last month notched 5 of the 6 goals
credited to the winning side while playing water polo for
Oygnus against Hove Club, and three days later easily
appropriated the Holbein Challenge Shield, contested
over a course something in excess of 2J miles. He
traversed the first mile in 26.55, the second in 54.54,
and the full journey in 63.44. Second man took nearly
llmins. longer.
• • * •
Initial round of Sydney first-grade cricket con-
cluded Saturday. Sydney, Waverley, North Sydney,
and Central Cumberland triumphed. Paddington, which
owns the services of Noble, Trumper and Kelly, when
they are at home, went under to Waverley by an innings
and 256 runs. Losers only compiled 70 and 38 in each
effort. Howard bagged 13 of them for 54. Sydney
settled ’Varsity by 68, mainly through deadly bowling of
M'Beath and Marsh, former of whom got 6 for 23, and
latter 4 for 36. Redfern went under by 102 to North
Sydney. Central Cumberland’s surplus over Burwood
was 40. Glebe-Leichhardt-Balmain match ended in a
draw. Waverley man M'Kenzie had hard luck. Finish-
ing previous week with 97 not out, he only got another,
thus missing the century by 2 runs.
* * * »
First match of first Australian team to visit
S’Africa is being played at Johannesburg as The Bulletin
goes to press, on a ground completely denuded of verdure
and claimed as being the fastest in the world.
* * » *
Melbourne Cricket Club’s new crack, Essex
player H. Carpenter, is a 33-year-old son of Robert of that
ilk, who was in Australia with George Parr’s team nearly
40 years back. Carpenter has good endorsement and
should fill the bill well.
* * * *
The Australian cricketers got a cheeky message
from Marie Corelli after the fourth test match : “ Elder
brothers often allow younger ones to beat them, out of
sheer kindness and good nature.”
* * * *
Spectacle of possibly the oldest (“Phil”
Glenister) and youngest (“Parvo”) crack pigeon-mur-
derers outstripping all others was witnessed on Melbourne
Gun Club grounds t’other day. Glenister scored a
sequence of 24, and was only beaten by three out of 34
fired at during the day. Boy “ Parvo ” only missed three
of 27 possible to him, and accounted for a break of 16,
shooting all the time from the same mark as his ancient
opponent, so the brutal “ sport” had a good day out.
» * * *
Bathurst policeman O’Reilly, on occasion of
Eight-Hour sports in that city last week, created two
fresh field game “bests” for this continent. Putting
161 b. shot from a 7ft. square he squelched previous best
(43ft. 7Jin.), credited to George Hawkes (Q.), by 7Ain. ;
and throwing the 161 b. hammer from a 9ft. circle he
topped the prior figures (136 ft. 4Ain.), standing in the
name of M.L. policeman Madill, by 14ft. 81 in. A.A.U. of
Australasia has yet to endorse these feats, but, as con-
ditions are certified as thoroughly in order, there can be
no question about them. O’Reiily’s work in practice led
athletic authorities to expect something big from him
sooner or later.
* * • *
“Teta”: “H.E.” (4/10/’O2) condemns physical
exercise altogether “because there is little use in being
able to lift two tons or in the possession of abnormal
physical power.” In no rational system of physical
culture is it recommended to try to lift enormous weights
or to develop “ abnormal ” power. Extreme efforts often
produce disastrous after-effects such as heart-disease and
aneurism. He is wrong, however, when he condemns all-
round development of the muscular system and the culti-
vation of some reserve of strength beyond what is required
by one’s occupation. He instances navvies, smiths
and wharf-laborers as dullards. Are these men dullards
because they are navvies, or navvies because they are
dullards ? The latter is the more likely. Re Chamber-
lain as an instance of high mentality and poor
muscle, “ H.F.”is rather unfortunate in the choice of an
example. The best known about J.C. is that he made
money by rigging the market in screws, performed two
or three political somersaults, and allowed himself and
England to be drawn into a war which he had himself
formerly denounced as unjust and unwarrantable. This
is a poor recommendation. What about W. E. Gladstone
the tree-cutter, and Abraham Lincoln the rail-splitter, as
instances to the contrary? “H.H.” says muscular
strength does not prolong life. Wrong, again. If a
strong, muscular man and a weak one are stricken down
with a severe illness, such as pneumonia, does he think
for a moment that the strong man, other things being
equal, has not a much better chance than the weakling ?
Another statement is that constant exercise is necessary
to maintain the muscular development, otherwise there
is danger of fatty degeneration. It is known to phy-
siologists that once the muscles have been
thoroughly developed by exercise, it needs only
a small amount of work to maintain them in the same
condition, and even if they do degenerate somewhat
through want of exercise, the subject is in no worse a
condition than the weakling whose muscles were never
developed at all. The muscles constitute about one-half
of the body weight, and if this half is not exercised to a
fair degree the other half must suffer. In addition, the
motor part of the brain, which controls the muscles, is
developed proportionately with the muscles, and as the
motor and other parts of the brain are mutually inter-
dependent, exercise leads to all-round development of the
brain. An instance of one-sided development is seen in
some school children whose brains are developed and
muscles neglected. It takes the form of a disease
called chorea (“ St. Vitus dance,”) in which the
portion of the brain controlling the muscles, so to
speak, runs wild. For the health of the body as a whole,
physical and mental culture should go hand-in-hand.
Muscular exercise not only developes the body but main-
tains a better standard of health. It promotes a feeling
of exhilaration and enjoyment of life. It improves
nutrition of the body. It increases the appetite and
promotes healthy action of the bowels. It compels the
lungs, which are not used to one-quarter of their limit
during sedentary occupations, to expand to their full
extent, and so tends to ward off consumption. It
increases the work the heart has to do, and so keeps this
organ in such a condition of energy that if extra work is
necessary it is able to do it. It makes a man sounder
physically, mentally and morally—when indulged in
within reasonable limits. Sandow is an exponent per-
haps of one extreme, your correspondent of the other.
The truth lies between.
Young G. A. Moir, the Australasian champion
amateur runner (son of Melbourne solicitor Moir), was
married last week to a grand-daughter of Graham Berry.
So the champion running career of young George is at an
end. He leaves his shoes to be filled by a bachelor.
From Hansard, during the discussion of
the Friedman case in N.B. W. Assembly:—
Mr. Ferguson: “ Does the hon. member insinuate that
the Attorney-General got drunk?"
Mr. Crick : “ No, whatever drinking is done by the
Government I will attend to.”
The Hotel, Club, Restaurant, and Caterers’
Employees’ Union has emphatically protested to
the N.S.W. Eight Hours Demonstration commit-
tee against the employment of non-unionists at
Sydney Agricultural show-grounds.
The Bulletin much regrets to learn of
the self-caused death, at Wangaratta (N.S.W.),
of its eccentric bush-contributor, H. J. M‘Cooey.
Mr. M'Cooey, though somewhat dogmatic and
irascible, was a very competent naturalist, and
was specially well-versed in Australian zoology.
Be par (27/9/’O2) as to a case of justices’
justice at Angledool, a correspondent from that
town states that the man charged, Billy Leach,
was a white, not a half-caste and “Wetalabah
Nellie” a full-blooded aborigine: which, if so,
would of course alter the position materially.
Quaker Cadbury, the cocoa-man, puts the
Josition for old-age pensions in a letter to the
Inglish Land Nationalisation Society :
I trust the programme for the next parliamentary elec-
tion will be 6s. per week to every man and woman in tha
country over 65 years of age, from the King downwards,
but such amount only to be obtained by personal applica-
tion to the nearest post-office.
That is it, “from the King downwards.” Not a
charity but a right, payable to rich and poor alike.
The very day James Fairfax trod the
shore of Australia again with knightly feet, and
still smelling of the chrism of the Coronation, his
paper (S.M. Herald) smuggled into a criticism of
Melba’s concert this flaring vandalism :
Probably owing to the depressing effect of the National
Anthem played on the piano upon the entrance of the
etc., etc.
The “depressing effect ” of the National Anthem!
And this gibe from the S.M.Ii., which should
have such a fellow sympathy for all depressing
effects! ft
A curious letter, signed “PetiG. Park,”
appeared in a recent Sydney Telegraph. The
writer had returned to Sydney after 12 years’
absence, and on his second day in his old haunts
he wrote to say it was all a mistake about there
being any depression—the beautiful new buildings
that had gone up since his departure proved that.
The poor man never noticed that N.S.W. had
acquired £31,000,000 of new debt while he was
away, and with that money to spend it would
indeed be a cold day if there weren’t some new
buildings to show. When one considers all
the beautiful unpaid-for Government offices
that adorn Bridge-st. and its neighborhood,
and the unpaid-for post office, and the new, un-
paid-for tramways, and railway station, and land-
resumptions, and sewerage works, and the two
gorgeous blocks which belong to the two American
life assurance societies, and the splendid new
offices that are going up in Martin-place for an
English bank, there certainly is some progress.
The progress may not belong to the Australian
people, but it is there. And when N.S.W. has
borrowed in 12 years a sum equal to three-fourths
of the value of all the land and buildings of the
city of Sydney, it assuredly ought to be there.


Frozen Fish
Has the same FRESH-
NESS and DELICACY
of FLAVOR as wHen
newly caught. V* >?
©
It can be sent with safety during the winter
months to almost any far distant railway
f — station in the State.—
SMOKED FISH (pur own curing) forwarded
by Post to back*country districts
Please send for Catalogue of
the different Kinds and prices
15/je N.S.Wo FresH Food (El Ice Co. Ltd.
Head Office and Refrigerating Works, Harbour St., Sydney
“Disgusted with Breakages/'
Open Saturday
Afternoons.
...J 116 following is an extract from a letter recently received from F. S. Beauchamp the Australian
crack, now in America, concerning Bill Martin and himself p ’ tne USCrallan
We have had considerable trouble with our machines, and, being disgusted with
breakages, have thrown up our engagements and are now riding different machines.
11/10/’O2 mac^llnes f rom Canada, for which we have sent.”— Australasian)
When racing in Australia, Beauchamp rode the same Canadian
MASSEY-H ARRIS BICYCLE
CANADA CYCLE & HOTOR CO., Ltd.,
Branches in Every State. 357 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER. . . .
YOU GET THE BEST VALUE YOUR MONEY WHEN YOU
REMINGTON
Double-Barrel .
Hammerless Gun
Thoroughly Guaranteed.
Kept in stock by the Largest Gun Stores in Melbourne and Sydney.
Remington Arms Company
Head Office: 315 BROADWAY, NEW YORK, U.S.A.
REMINGTON GUNS, ns 10s. to *l5
REMINGTON RIFLES, 23/6 post free
McLEAN BROS. & RICO, Ltd., 107 Elizabeth-St., Melbourne.
A NIB,
A BOTTLE OF INK,
A SHEET OF PAPER and
A PEN CARBON BOOK
makes a complete outfit with
which any
MAN,
WOMAN OR
CHILD
can write a letter, and at the same
time make an exact copy without
leaving the slightest sign of copy-
ing on the original.
uncertain mark,
indisputable record™ there can be no a PP eal - It will save any house or family much money by its
There is no man or woman, professional or not, who would not at some time or other find
THE PEN CARBON LETTER BOOK
For fullest particulars, price, etc., write to the sole
A True and Valued Friend.
s
Y/S/.
Asents for Australasia: E. RICH & CO. LTD.,
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
Do You
Wear a
Truss ?
If So,
TRr
Denyer's Elastic Trass,
IT IS THE VERY BEST.
No Discomfort to Wearer. Suits any Rupture.
P . r !?? s 17/6 Single
25/ ■ Double.
Send Measure and P.O. Order.
DENYER BROS.
281 CEuRCE ST., SYDNEY
Opp. Hunter St.
AND AT MELBOURNE.
By Special
Appointment.
6. H. SMITH and SON,
TROPICAL HELMET
with special air-space,
in while drill , dec. and
in all colors in felt.
10/6 and 12/6
Hat and Cap Manufacturers
and Importers,
302 George-st. Sydney
Sombrero Soft Felt Hats,
All Shades and Sizes.
Soft Felt Hombergs.
In all Sizes and Colors.
Straw Hats. Stetson Hats.
Polo Caps, Military and Naval
Caps, Livery Hats, Clerical Silk
Hats, Etc., Made to Order
SNARPSNOOTmg
For Sport and War.
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARK!
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/- nett. •
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published,
IF you wish to get good work and value
you should purchase W. W. CREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCK LAND,
/317 Collins Street, Melbourne,
(Greener’s Representative).
Victoria Racing Club.
Cup"week.
DERBY DAY ... ... ... NOV. L
CUP DAY NOV. 4.
OAKS DAY NOV. 6
STEEPLECHASE DAY ... NOV. 8.
LARGE ENTRIES.
ACCOMMODATION FOR THOUSANDS.
HOLIDAY EXCURSION FARES,
H. BYRON MOORE, Secretary.
I WVo *'2°y<b ' -wmii
r k\^% '% °/-S’-V,V<
fe.& V 'o>> * < A% V 0
&°h
IUJs
j£flxnn£
F&-
NLQ
?°&SX%y%%°<oJ: v-w
JS
tAC*£V
Y'
*<? /<s> ' € 'P J r*J / £ 0 °/* % '
ot % A?* O V,VW S\ o D <A .
%A
.A'4
A
<V c r
%/<?■&
w
°</ r y.
m
i
li
i ?
/ .
Pi
I
X 5
a
vs.
Rubber Goods of every description and
quantity. Quality of the highest. Prices
the most reasonable in Australasia.
if Vow want
V
Hoses (all sizes). Stoppers.
Rubber Belting., Rings.
Packing. Mats.
Valves. Tubing.
Mining, Engineering, or
Sporting Requisites
We will be pleased to quote,
and submit Samples.
Vour Custom we would like, arid
we intend bidding for same by offer-
ing you Rubber Goods Cheaperand
Better than other Houses or
Agents.
Prices and Particulars on
Application.
THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYEE CO. OF AUS., LTD.
150 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY;
Aad at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane and Christchurch.
SOAPS dubbed Shaving
are rarely
Shaving Soaps.
In a Class by Themselves
The World’s Standard Shaving Soaps
Williams’ Barber’s Bar
and
Williams’ Shaving Stick
“BARBER’S BAR”
While the natural Ally
Of the Deft Artist
And his Trusty Blade
Is also the Ideal Soap
Eor Home Use
Fits your Birthday Mug
Once tried, never changed
“Won’t Dry on the Face.”
Send a Penny Stamp and we will post you Williams’
Changing Pace Puzzle. Can you explain if?
J. B. WILLIAMS CO., Glastonbury, Conn., U.S.A.;
and at 232 Clarence-st., Sydney.
Premier See to Cohen, M.L.A., in N.S.W.
Assembly: “ Oh, sit down, you fat-head ! ” And
See wasn’t suspended for the remainder of the
| sitting; he was only called upon to formally with-
draw his Billingsgate.
“ Five-foot ” : “ L.M.D.” (B., 4/10/’02)
says he knows a permanent-way man when he
sees him. I doubt it, judging by his knowledge
of a railroad. Re the p.w.m.’s alleged three long
steps and a short one, there is no road in this part
of the world with but two sleepers between the
joints, or with rails only 10ft. long. Also, the
distance between joint-sleepers is lOin. —not 1ft.
or 18in. And, finally, p.w. men don’t walk on the
j sleepers except when obliged to do so.
The new Victorian Assembly contains a
dozen lawyers, 10 farmers, 9 graziers, 8 merchants,
6 auctioneers, 5 agents, 4 “gentlemen,” 4 jour-
nalists, 3 legal managers, 2 each investors,
medicoes, printers, publicans and accountants,
and one each surveyor, town-clerk, builder, secre-
tary, wood-turner, storeman, meat salesman,
artist, stone-cutter, valuer, butter-factory-mana-
ger, law-student, bookseller, watchmaker, com-
mercial traveller, publisher, bootmaker, manufac-
turer, engine-driver, warehouse-keeper, civil
engineer and agriculturist, under which latter
deceptive designation is hidden the well-gilt
Levien.
Ladies recommend Martin's Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Agents for N. S. Wales: Sayers,
Allport and Potter, Sydney. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
Sydney D.T.’s representative in the
Federal Parliament writes in his summary of the
session :—
What Mr. Edmund Barton can do under the stimulus of
a great movement was shown in his gallant fights during
the Federal campaigns. It was when, with the work
accomplished, he came to administer its details, to place
the complete scheme in practical operation, that he dis-
appointed. It is almost impossible adequately to express
in language the awe, the reverence, in which Mr.
Barton was regarded in Victoria and some of the other
States. In Melbourne it was almost a sacrilege to con-
template, much less to create and control and lead, an
Opposition to him. The personality of Mr. Barton
was looked upon as so politically sacred that
opponents were regarded with mingled indignation and
derision. He was accepted, not as in Byron’s phrase,
half divinity, half dust, but as some superior and almost
supernatural being, whose name could not be uttered,
except in whispers. In Melbourne he was in reality Aus-
tralia’sNoblestSon. As the session wore on thedream van-
ished, the ideal was found to be very human indeed. The
unwearying devotion to public affairs that was expected
from Mr. Barton proved to be tempered by a keen appre-
ciation for his personal comfort and his personal idiosyn-
cracies. Instead of being constantly in the House,
managing public business, he was rarely present, save in
desperately fitful flashes. His control over the House
vanished. His influence over his own supporters slowly
passed away. Mr. Barton began not to lead, but
to sue for help. The Labor members, whom he at first
treated with some disdain, rose in his conception, and,
indeed, in reality, to be the power which supported his
throne. The political scales fell off the eyes of Victoria.
The idol was found to be as other men are. The cartoonist
who had sketched him as a Greek deity treated him with
even disrespect. What remained of Mr. Barton was
a high appreciation of his ability as a constitutionalist,
but a complete disillusionment as to his capacity for poli-
tical leadership.
A Decaying’ Profession.
Some burglars having broken into the house of
a poor man were diligently engaged ransacking
his shelves and drawers when the owner suddenly
awoke and sat upright in bed. “ Hunt away, my
men, hunt away,” he said. “I don’t know what
you expect to find here by this dim light. For my
part, I can find nothing of value in the day.” And
having made these remarks he resumed his
slumbers and the disgusted burglars withdrew.
The fact is, the profession of which Mr. Bill Sikes
was so conspicuous an ornament is a decaying one,
and the art of burglary is in a fair way to be lost.
There are more reasons for this than we have time
now to inquire into, but possibly one of them may
be the counter attraction of selling something
warranted to do that which it will not do. Even
as there are no friends like old friends, so there is
no remedy the equal of Mother Seigel’s Curative
Syrup with its thirty-three years of world-wide
renown. Just give two minutes’ attention to the
testimony of Mr. J. Armitage, the licensed
carrier, of Schrader-street, Adelaide, S.A., and
his wife. It deserves it. Mr. Armitage writes,
on the 25th of March, 1902 :—“As both myself
and my wife have derived great benefit from the
use of Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup, it is 6nly
just that I should thank you for it and give a few
particulars which may direct others, now suffering
as we formerly did, where to look for relief and
cure. My wife was afflicted for years with indiges-
tion. She tried a variety of mixtures, pills, &c.,
and at different times was treated by several
doctors, but without avail. Frequently she was
quite unable to attend to her household affairs.
About three years ago a neighbour recommended
her to try Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup, with
the result that she was cured within six weeks.
As for myself, I was subject to asthma and
rheumatism for a long period. Often have I lain
in bed for days suffering torture through the latter
complaint. The asthma, too, was very distressing,
especially in damp or cold weather. I spent
much money, and swallowed a lot of physic, in the
endeavour to free myself of these ailments; but
it was all to no purpose. At last it occurred to
me that possibly the medicine which had cured
my wife might benefit me; and, having resolved to
make the experiment, I discovered that it was
just what I required. It speedily enabled me to
breathe with ease and comfort, as well as subdu-
ing the rheumatism. About six bottles of the
Syrup cured me. My wife and I always have a
bottle of it in the house, and by taking a few doses
of it every week our health is never a source of
anxiety to us.”


'fl
0*
MU'-
r
r->
\J
i
v
A
i * ‘o
a
/
IFTOpra
r%
«
H
c
ft
v£
TO
r
it
h\
v .i
IF
r
Say ! old Chap, you look miserable, try an Ogden
fi
Our Photo. Albums are Free.
S 3 SAi&fySA&T ±d"S.roXl" ?u\V^°mii“he S c?Xt.Ve ?&S2&tt£2& "
send the Album by return mail (post free).
OGDEN’S. LIMITED, 45 York Street, Sydney.
The way of the hero- worshipper is some-
times hard. A small batch of returning swaddies
recently landed in Port Melbourne and in a
more or less muddled condition were taken by
train to the metropolis. With many narrow
escapes from falling in front of moving trains,
they prepared with difficulty to scramble up the
steps at Flinders-street. A well-meaning and
right-thinking person, seeing one man in imminent
danger of falling back and breaking his neck,
seized him kindly by-the arm and, preventing him
from dropping his swag, steered him carefully o
the upper landing. Once there, the returned
farm-incendiary turned a bleary eye on him, looked
thoughtful for a full second, and then dealt the
patriotic citizen a “woodener” on the jaw.
“You cow,” he said in explanation, trying
to steal a poor soldier’s swag!”
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Ib. bottles. Made in London. *
A year or so ago, when it was proposed to
hold a popularly-elected convention to draft a
reformed Victorian Constitution, about a dozen
MTs-L-C. were interviewed {vide Argus, 28/9/’00),
and this is the sort of verdict they returned
If, a Bill embodying reforms of both branches of the
Legislature be passed by the Assembly and sent on to the
Council it will receive careful and sympathetic treat-
ment at the hands of the Upper House —Bell, M.L.O.
It is absolutely necessary, however, that there should
b« reforms in both Houses . . . these reforms can be
dealt with in a Bill in the ordinary way.-EMBLiNa,
M ’rt ?S a mistake to suppose the Council is hostile to
reform. . . The Chamber is willing to have changes
made in its Constitution.— Winter Cooke, M -b.O.
There is no necessity for a convention. _ The Council
only wants to know what the people desire in matters of
legislation, and it will meet their wishes. Proposals for
reform should be brought forward in the ordinary way by
a Government Bill, and it will be found the Council is
fust as desirous of bringing the Constitution up to date
as the Assembly.— Dowling, M.L.C.
Now Premier Irvine promises a Reform Bill in
the ordinary way! And the spectacle of the
Council breaking its neck m its haste to accept
the people’s wishes will doubtless be visible at an
early date.
w. H.Wigzell.
FRINGES: Best Natural Curly
Hair, 3/6, 5 6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each.
TAILS and PLAITS : 20in. long,
6/6 ; extra thick, 7/6; 24in., 10/6;
extra thick, 12/6 up to 40/. Cut-
tings and'Combings worked up,
2/6 per oz. Don’t be misled.
Our Plaits anrd Tails are twice as
thick as sold elsewhere at the
same price. Send color of Hair.
Onlv one address: 110 WiLLIAM-
ST.', cor. of Palmer St. SYDNEY.
Gable trams will stop at door. All work guaranteed.
Illustrated Catalogue post free. Prompt attention given
to country orders. Wigs made on shortest notice. All
Hairwork sent to the other States free of duty. Transfor-
mations, entire covering for the head, 30/- each.
LOVELY COLORS.
BRILLIANT
GLOSS.
REJECT
IMITATIONS.
SPINALIS
OKI D I S ED
ENAMEL, i
IjREADY FOR USE ?%*
rMltiii
ERFECT
nows FOR use -^;i;iii;iiiiiiijisia{|§ipill:
iiiiifiiiMHMiniMtii •• *•••• ••• 'Hijjiisnsisffi
f £
iwIiROSS. LONDQ«Iii
>
mnsm
See that Aspinall’s name
and Medals are stamped
on every Tin.
MANUFACTURED BY
ASPINALL’S ENAMEL, Ltd., NEW CROSS,
LONDON, ENG,
LEARN TO HYPNOTIZE
PROF.
Reader, do yon desire to become a Hypnotist? Do you want to knowhow to n*Uke_
nnwprfnl and mysterious force of nature? Do you value control over others ? Do you value the
means of securing friendship, love and. personal influence? Do you value the power to conquer
“°d f Ssh lioness toreform a misguided friend to gain busmese success to wm wealth
home. It costs nothing to And out all
“n i gtt o wh^ m gr a ouTof Unhand he will send™ while the. edition lasts, absolute*
FREE TO ALL wife apply. The book is profusely illustrated, contatang teautrfu! and artistic
engravings, and shows as never was done before the principles, features, wonuers
and uses of this mysterious Science, all in a popular and pleasing style. Itit
you just what Hypnotism is and hat you may accomplish with it. it snows you
how you may sway the mind;: of others, per orm astounding feats,
and produce amusement by the hour. New an,d instantaneous
methods. Success absolutely guaranteed. Remember this grand
work costs you nothing. It benefits everybody who reads it. It
places you in touch with the wonder-science of the age. Head
it anyhow. It is absolutely FREE. Apply at once to—
R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
a EVERY MAN
SUFFERING from DEBILITY and WEAKNESS should
send for a valuable Pamphlet explaining how all
Nervous and Organic Derangements may be success-
fully treated without stomach medication. The method
is easy and pleasant, and will effect a perfect and per-
manent cure. Sent in a plain sealed envelope free of |
charge. E. NORTON, 59 &60 Chancery Lane, London,
Eng. Over 30 years’ continuous success.
Free for Asking.
WRITE to us and we will forward you our scientific'
book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong- and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you wih
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Write
to Proprietor, Box 185, G.P.0., Adelaide, S.A.
Publications.
S>NOS MSN
iiR
m
f
$ "t™
$
Author or
'Am* mt Ball-
IbitiH Coma rmfiituit niAua nMmae
Price 2Jntt
Allan & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Melbourne
Read the Words
If You Please, Miss, Give Me Heaven.
“ Papa, I’m so sad and lonely,”
Sobbed a tearful little child ;
“ Since dear mamma’s gone to Heaven,
Papa, darling, you’ve not smiled.
I will speak to her and tell her
That we want her to come home;
Just you listen, and I’ll call her
Through the telephone:
Chorus—
“lf you please, Miss, give me Heaven—for my Mamma’s
You can find her with the angels on the golden stair.
She’ll be glad it’s me who’s speaking—call her, won’t you,
please,
For I want to surely tell her we’re so lonely here.
When the girl received this message,
Coming o’er the telephone,
How her heart thrilled in that moment,
And the wires seemed to moan ;
“ I will answer, just to please her :
‘ Yes, dear heart, I’ll soon come home.’ ”
“ Kiss me, Mamma, kiss your darling,
Through the telephone."
Chorus —“ If you please, Miss,” etc.
ft
e. it
PROP., Ltd.
276-278 COLLINS-ST., MELBOURNE.
LADIES
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address— L.D.l., 300 Collins Bt.| Melbourne


FLUID
OIL
CRUDE FLUID
POWDER
EMBROCATION
80APS
DISINFECTORS
INHALERS
FUMICATORB
Ml
JISINFECTINfi
FLUID.
I/-
COLORLESS
FRAGRANT
NON.
POISONOUS
DOES NOT
BTAIN
KILLS ALL
DISEASE
GERMS
OXYGENATES
THE AIR.
Sulphur Candles -
Formic Fumigators
KINGZETT’S
PATENTS.
“HOW TO DISINFECT” Book Free
The “SANITAS” CO., Ltd.
Bethnal Green, LONDON, E<
t£E»
Begin as
Motorman
N W electric roads are being built all the time,
requiring strong, intelligent, reliable
Young Hen for Motormen.
You might get such a position il you were
fitted for it, and, once in, there’s a chance to
rise. Our Correspondence Course in Electrical
Engineering teaches you the whole thing. We
teach also Steam and Mechanical Engineering,
Mechanical Drawing, Plumbing, Heating, Ven-
tilating.
Write for information and Handbook “ B.”
American School of Correspondence, Boston,
Mass. Sydney Address : Box 629, C.P.O.
ORNAMENTAL hair.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6'd to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers Wigwiakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
13?“ Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia..
CRA.IG & AITKIBN,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 George Street, Sydney.
EVERY MAN IS
More or less interested in the curative powers of
MEDIOAIj GALVANISM and the proper method of
applying this wonderful agent. Before purchasing
Electric Belts or Batteries send for our valuable FREE
BOOK entitled “THE MODERN TREATMENT OF
DISEASE BY ELECTRICITY.” It will tell you what
you ought to know, and may save you time, money
and disappointment. Address—
ARTHUR HALE & SON,
44 Castlereagrh Street, Sydney.
Too Stout
I wasfor years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from l?st, to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending- stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney
Sending, mention this paper.
DR. J. GOLLIS BROWNE’S
rNLORODYNE.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUCHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BfiOMOHITIS,
DIAHRHCEA, &<>., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—■
Dr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely -to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
GENTS.^-
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address.— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
WOOL. PRODUCE. GRAIN.
The New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Coy., Ltd., SYDNEY,
ACT AS SELLING BROKERS ONEY.
Consignors are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum, of Association of this Company.
WOOL
COMMISSION FOR SELLING THREE-QUARTERS (J) PER OENT.
WAREHOUSING
'(lncluding Receiving into Store, Fire Insurance,
Weighing, Lotting, Repacking, Sample Bales,
Advertising, Cataloguing, etc.) on Wool real-
ising over SIXPENCE per lb. the charges
will be 3s. 9d. per Bile.
On Wools realising SIXPENCE and over Four-
pence per lb : 2s. 6d. per Bale.
On Wools realising FOURPENCE per lb. and
_ under Is. 6d. per Bale.
Perfect System of Weighing’. Way Bills sent on Application.
PRODUCE
SALES of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, etc., HELD WEEKLY.
WHEAT.
Every inducement is offered* growers to consign their grain for realisation by the Company
Ample accommodation is provided. Three months free storage is allowed. Circulars are sent when
desired giving cost of railage and full particulars as to Charges, Advances, etc., etc.
AGENTS FOR McDOUG ALL’S SHEEP DIF.
J. BARTRAM & SON,
34 & 36 EVSarket Street, Sydney Clarence Street)
19, 21, 23 King Street, M;ell»oTzme.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES ...
The ENGLISH DE LAVAL STEAM TURBINE CO. LTD., Leeds.
Makers of Steam Turbines, Turbine Dynamos, Turbine Pumps, Turbine Fans.
(Over 80,000 Horse-power in use.)
Messrs. GREENWOOD & BATLEV LTD., Albion Works, Leeds.
Machine Tool Manufacturers and Electrical Engineers, Dynamos, Motors, Pumps, eto.
Messrs. CONNOLLY BROS. LTD,, Manchester.
Cables, Wires, Tapes, etc.
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regain Health?
Go to the Fountain Head
And consult Old Surgeon Langston, who will Cure
you. Forty years’ practice as a Specialist is sufficient
Guarantee of the doctor’s ability.
AVOID unskilled pretenders, flaming advertisements and specious
cure-alls.
Vigor and Strength ” ho
OLD SURGEON LANGSTON,
Member Royal College of Surgeons, England, located in Melbourne
since 1886, has so perfected his method of treatment that it can
almost be said there are no hopeless or incurable cases.
Be the equal of your fellow man.
If you are a sufferer from any nervous, chronic Blood or Skin diseases, or interested in the subject of
Neurasthenia and associated evils, write at once for book of information, blank forms, etc., and have the
old doctor diagnose your case.
Seek tlie Xr-uth., it costa ISTotlxing I
All communications strictly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, cor. Russell & Collins Sts,, Melbourne.
HOME CyCLOPEPIA
BMBRACIHB
the POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 86 Chromes. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, In plain language, a thou-
sajicl questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delieacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both m and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1902 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
a xw’ C 2 vered edltlon of t hi s great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy : is 6d post
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d. '
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards illus.
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted"
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk Is 9d "
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is ’
The Art op W restling, post Is. Hoyle’s Games post 2/6
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc ) Is 3d post
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor Is
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book op Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted. Camille, Is 3d
Secret History of the Court of England 1 6 post free
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., is 6d posted’
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history)’ Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
How TO Bead Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs
* s post free - How T 0 Play Billiards, Is 3d.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted. Sappho Is.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
The Wife’s Handbook, Is 2d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages
1600 illus. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid*
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance. Is 3d.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s posted.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music complete), Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d posted.
Send for my Illustrated Big Book
Catalogue—post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
Dr. J. W. GIBBS’
. . Electric Massage Rollers . .
For use on Face and Body.
For NERVOUS HEADACHES,
NEURALGIA and RHEUMATISM
—a specific. Removes Wrinkles.
Gold, 21/- Silver, 167-
Post Free. Pamphlets Free.
AMERICAN AGENCY COMPANY,
Box 440, G.P.0.,
Melbourne.
j i-iW
iVVATOn
Mention
this
Paper.
"Wo^lSL
v2MtOn WOMEN
Can obtain strength and vigor
by the use of DR. PIERCE’S
ELECTRIC BELT." A Won-
derful Restorative. The most
Scientific Electrical Appliance
ever made. Drugs do not cure.
This Belt does. Send stamp (any sort)
for “Booklet No. 2.” CC T Write to-day.
<i»n'i?™ n si no Pierce Electric C0.,206 Post St.
San Francisco,U.S. A., W. H. Soul & Co-, Agts. Sydney
Induction
!A«rVws*
n tAPACriE ]
pi AIR’Q
GOUT $ IjOEUMATIC
FHiiiS.
The Great English Rem c ly for
GOUT, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO & NEURALGIA.
The acute pain is quickly relieved and cured in a
few days by this celebrated Medicine.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, and sold at Is. ljd. and 2s. 9d.
per box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMM'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Fop Asthmatic people who suffer from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault’s Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chaet.
6RIMAULT & CO., Paris. Sold by all Chemists.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face,?.or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstke & Truman, of
71 Old Keut Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficaey, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is s®ld by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdestke & Tkuman,
71 Old -Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
RX CORO’s
,6.ss€** cE °? V.X f
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In oases of 128. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope
Agents for Australasia— PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne; Wholesale Agents for New South Wales —
F. H. Faulding & Co., 16 O’Ccnnell St., Sydney.
ML dJ
DEAF
nm
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
iCompletely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free. *
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.


Strong-man Pagel, who has been challenging Sandow,
has been astonishing the Bendigoites with his
fiats, ineluding the lifting of a lion, said to weigh
3001 b., above his head. “ The act,” says a local paper,
“being rendered highly exciting by a display of resent-
ment on the part of the huge quadruped, which roared in
amrer ..As a final act, Herr Pagel carried a full-
sized horse, about 16 hands high, into mid-air by means
of two ladders, between wnich the horse was placed.
It was a tremendous lift, considering the resistance of
the horse, which was in fine condition, and inclined to be
restive. Herr Pagel is certainly a wonderfully strong
man, and the surprising thing is that he is not taken in
hand by some theatrical manager of an enterprising
turn.’’ But Pagel has no physical-culture “biz” to
boom, nor a pretty wife, nor any of the showman s arts.
He is just an unpretentious young giant of 24.
Severe Asthma
Doctor ordered Scott’s Emulsion,
which cured her
Asthma is one of those miseries of life
which sometimes make it seem impossible
to longer endure the afflict ion of existence 1
Yet the way to a cure is simple :
“ 4, Nairn Street, Abbott Boad, Popin’ 1 ,
“London, England, April 10'h, i9Ol.
“Gentlemen, —I have great pleasme in
testifying to the great benefit iny m<>tl ec
received from taking Scott’s Emulsh n. My
mother, who is a great sufferer Iron, asthma,
was taken very ill at the beginning of
January with bronchitis and congestion of
the lungs, and her doctor, who has attended
her for years, said the usual remedies would
do her no good, but recommeuded her to try
MRS. BEDLOW.
(From a photograph.)
Soott’s Emulsion. At this time the sufferer
was at her lowest ebb, but after taking
a small bottle, the asthmatical cough
disappeared, and persevering with the
treatment, I am pleased to say that my
mother, after being confined to her bed for
nine weeks, is now as well as ever she was, a
result solely due to Soott’s Emulsion, as no
other medicine was taken. —I remain, yours
respectfully,
“(Signed) A. J. Bedlow.”
Mr. Bedlow writes that “ a small bottle of
Scott’s Emulsion caused the asthmatical
cough to disappear ” —a course of Scott’s
Emulsion completely eradicated the asthma.
It is ever the same old story, in troubles of
the throat and lungs when Scott’s Emulsion
is used: First relief, then cure.
Another point, too, which is daily made in
the correspondence which reaches us : “ the
doctor said the usual remedies would do her
no good, but recommended Scott’s Emul-
sion.” The doctor did not recommend
common cod-liver oil, the doctor did not
recommend substitutes for or imitations
of Soott’s Emulsion, they “ would do her
no good ” —what he did recommend was
Soott’s Emulsion, and only that.
This doctor’s experience is the same as
that of countless physicians ; they can rely
on Scott’s Emulsion; with any other thing
the result is still in doubt. There is, of
course, a solid scientific reason for this—the
scientific blending by our especial process of
pure cod-liver oil with hypophosphites of
lime and soda.
A distinguished physician who carried out
a series of comparative tests finds : “ Scott’s
Emulsion is three times as efficacious as
the same quantity of common cod-liver oil.”'
If you reflect a moment on these facts you
can only reach one conclusion : to buy
Scott’s Emulsion. And to get it see that a
picture of a man carrying a big fish is on
the wrapper. This picture is on no prepara-
tion in the world other than the genuine
Scott’s Emulsion.
You can obtain a sample of Scott’s Emulsion
by sending fourpence to Scott & Bowne, Ltd.
483 Kent-street, Sydney, and mentioning this
paper. All chemists sell Scott’s Emulsion.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR
For the Treatment of Catarrh, Hay Fever,
Bronchitis, Influenza, Catarrhal
Deafness, etc.
Medlcator, with complete treat•
meat, only 101-, post free,
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY
229, 231 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
Missing Friends.
IE this should meet the eye of John Cos ello
Parwan, late of Bacchus Marsh, write to
your father at once.
TF WILLIAM BOLTON, formerly MAILDRIVER and
J- BUTCHER at BREWARRINA, N.S.W., will com-
municate with the Undersigned, he will hear of some-
thing to his advantage.
JAMES LYNCH, Solicitor,
BREWARRINA.
\
ms
* I do not ask yon to spend
money to teat -whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’
Dance, etc. All I ask of you
is to SEND for a FREE
Bottle and to try it. I abide
by the result. A safe remedy-
approved by the Medical
Profession.
H. 6. ROOT, 28,Endslelgh
Gardens, London, N.W.
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchase*
ol our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
A TELIA JV CES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Beits will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Eleotrio
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post f >’ee), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH bEXEb,
ftlso Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
FITS CURED
From the first doße of Ozerlne fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when,
every other remedy had failed. Price 4/6 and 11/*
Thousands of testimonials.
OF ALL CHEMISTS, STORES, ETC.
WHOLKSAI.E AGENTS'
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared bv I. W. NICHOLL, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
25 HIGH STREET, BELFAST, IRELAND.
Amusements.
pITZGERALD BROS.’
HUGE NEW CIRCUS
AND
MENAGERIE,
ST. It IX.O A. HOAD
(Just Over Prince’s Bridge),
Opening Saturday, Oct. 18
(CAULFIELD CUP NIGHT).
An Entirely New Interstate Exposition,
For which Vast New Buildings are being erected.
EVERYTHING WILL BE BRIGHT AND NEW.
THE GREAT CYCLE WHIZZ.
One of the most exciting novelties ever introduced into
Australia.
Extraordinary Novelties will be introduced during the
Season by these Great Australian Caterers for the Amuse-
ment of the Great Australian Public.
Box Plan at Glen’s, and Grand Hotel.
City Tickets on the trams will be available to the Circus
45., 35., 25., and One Shilling.
FRANK JONES, Representative.
Amusements.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at
The Latest and Greatest Dramatic Novelty,
SHERLOCK HOLMES.
Mr. CUYLER HASTINGS as SHERLOCK HOLMES,
Supported by Mr. Williamson’s
SPECIALLY ORGANISED DRAHATIC COMPANY.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Prices as Usual.
Tivoli theatre, sy ° ne ,™
Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harry Rick a r . .
THE SENSATION OF THE CIVILISED WORLD,
THE MIGHTY SANDOW.
Magnificent Suocess of the MONTROSE COMPANY.
Mr. & Mrs. TOM NAWN & CO. WILTON BROS.
WALLACE BROWNLOW.
A G SPRY, TOD CALLAWAY, LES. WARTON,
THE BIOSCOPE.
Dress Circle & Orchestra Stalls, 4s. ; Stalls, 3s. ; Family
Circle, until 7.40, 2s. ; after 7.40, Is. No Booking tees.
NEW OPERA
MELBOURNE.
HOUSE,
fgICKARDS’
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mr. HARRY RICKARDS.
EVERY EVENING, at 8 p.m.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS at 2.30 p.m.
PAUL CINQUEVALLI.
Mr. & Mrs. SIDNEY DREW.
SAM HOLDSWORTH. HARRIS & WALTERS.
Professor MACCANN. RAY JONES.
MARK ANTHONY.
Prices—3s., 2s. 6d., 25., Is. Early Doors and Booked
Seats 6d. Extra. Plan at Allans.
HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
.Lessee • • • • Mr. Holt.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. William Anderson.
Bus. Manager, James Hendy. Treas., Julius Grant.
2nd WEEK of the Ever-Popular MAGGIE MOORE.
EVERY EVENING. EVERY EVENING.
For the First Time in Australia, the Domestic Drama,
PEGGY PETERS.
Prices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
" Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
Under the Direction of Mr. Frank Thornton.
Farewell Appearances of Mr. Frank Thornton and his
Selected London Comedy Co.
Brief Revival of the Inimitable Farcical Comedy,
CHARLEY’S AXJKTT,
The Queen of Laugh-Makers.
PRICES—Dress Circle and Orchestra Stalls, ss. ; Stalls,
3s. ; Amphitheatre, One Shilling. Box Plan at Allan s.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. O. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. Tallis. Treas., L. J. Tait.
EVERY EVENING,
Mr. J. 0. Williamson’s ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in
the toreador,
interpreted by full strength of the Co., including Mr.
REGINALD ROBERTS (tenor from principal London
Theatre), and Miss LULU EVANS (from Savoy Theatre,
London), who will make their first appearance. _
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allan s.
gIJOU THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
"Lessee and Manager '.. William F. Hawtrey.
Business Manager .. Leonard Davis
EVERY EVENING, THE HAWTREY COMEDY CO.
FRIDAY, OCT. 17, LAST NIGHT of
A MESSAGE FROM MARS.
■SATURDAY OCT. 18, First Production in Australia of
1 New and Original Farce, “OH, MR. PENNY LOVE,”
by G. W. Elton.
Popular Prices—3s., 25., Is. Matinee every Wednesday.
Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’ and The Grand.
R. BENTLEY YOUNG, Representative.
Y CE UM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee Mr. Wm. Anderson.
Sub Lessee
Bland Holt.
€
EVERY EVENING. EVERY EVENING.
SLAND HOLT’S Sporting and Spectacular Melodrama,
A MILLION OF MONEY.
POPULAR PRICES—3s„ 25., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’S.
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
QRITERION T H EATRE, SYDNEY.
SOLE LESSEE .. .. Mr. JOHN F. SHERIDAN.
4th WEEK 4th
MRS. GOLDSTEIN
MRS. GOLDSTEIN
MRS. GOLDSTEIN
MRS. GOLDSTEIN
THE
QUEEN
OF
FASHION.
JOHN F. SHERIDAN
JOHN F. SHERIDAN
JOHN F. SHERIDAN
JOHN F. SHERIDAN
Mr. Charles Kenningham in Own. Tenor Songs.
Brilliant Success of New American Waltz Song, sung by
Miss Celia Mavis, “ ROSE OF KILLARNEY."
Continued Hit of Minnie Hooper’s Coon Creation,
“THE GOBLIN MAN."
MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY at 2.30.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. PRICES —35.. 25.. Is. 6d., & Is.
“ They Won’t Know Me Now.”
ALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessees .. .. Messrs. LEE and RIAL.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening, at 7.45. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING, a Musical Comedy,
in 2 Acts, entitled,
THE MESSENGER BOY.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Nicholson and Co.
HEALTH GIVING,
ENO’S
COOLING,
FRUIT
REFRESHING,
SALT.’
AND INVIGORATING.
Dr. Clarkson’s Electric Belt
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years study ana
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Dr. Clarkson’s Jtte-Invigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youth i
Vlg °To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless. Despondent, Losing Memory Dys.
peptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice general collapse of all vi^a
narts the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSONS RE-IN Vit.UK A IUH, ... ,
will bring happiness and health. The influence agents on the Nerves and Organs is truly wonderful.
Price-ELECTRIC BELT, 10s- ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £L
V
CALL OR WRITE—
owx
CUT
RATE
DRUG STORE
CORNER ELIZABETH UND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
At Poverty Point.
“ P.N.” : Sandow would be far more impressive, not to
say pleasing, if he kept well within the limits of his own
strength (for even his horse-power has limits) and wasn’t
constantly trying to break his own records. Take any
feat-artist, acrobat or equilibrist, say Caicedo or Cin-
quevalli; they impress not merely because of what they
accomplish, but because of all the unattempted feats
subtly suggested to the mind that they could do if they
liked. The apparently effortless performances of Cin-
quevalli leave the beholder with the idea of great reserves
of power. Sandow is a magnificent animal, but the art
that conceals art is not his. The unpleasing physical
signs of over-exertion—the hurried, reckless way in
which he flings his furniturea way— are unconscious con-
fessions that he has got to the end of his tether, that he
has done all he dared attempt, and beyond would be
failure. There is no splendid bravado challenge to the
imagination suggesting worlds yet possible to conquer.
No wonder Mrs. Sandow stays away from her husband’s
performances “ for fear of something happening.”
“Boseo” : Strong-man-feats are often mere tricks. The
coin and chain-breaking' fakes are now pretty well sized
up ; and, as for the card-pack tearing feat, packs of cards
are often baked in an oven until they are extremely dry
and brittle, care being taken to avoid any tell-tale dis-
coloration. A pack so treated can easily be torn in
halves, and the halves paired and again torn. In the rare
event of a challenge as to the condition of the cards
it is perfectly easy to substitute unprepared cards.
Sandow’s rending of three conjoined packs may be
genuine, but anyone with fairly strong hands can, with a
little practice, duplicate it by trickery, thus : The cards
are held in the left hand, on the outside of the left knee,
the right side being turned to the spectators. As the
right hand grips the lower end of the cards the left
thumb slightly spreads them out (under cover of the
right hand). The tearing is then easy, as instead of
having a block of cards to deal with you" have only a fan.
The performer disguises the ease of the thing by pretend-
ing to violent effort, and there is a crash of music as the
hands are pulled apart. When the conjuror Hermann
was challenged by the late Czar of Russia to duplicate
ftisfeat of tearing a pack asunder, Hermann took one of
the halves and, by the trick described, smilingly tore
that in halves.
Melba, like all other visiting great singers, is being
rushed by importunate young persons who want to sub-
mit their voices to her. In most cases she refuses, of
course, but one or two favored nightingales, with the
influence of Mme. Wiedermann and other musical per-
sonages at their backs, have been given a chance of
showing off. The average singing aspirant sets out with
the idea that she has only to be heard by Melba or some-
body else to ensure being taken up with great enthusiasm
and exhibited to the world as a vocal marvel, whereas
the solemn truth is that there are not so many niches at
the top of the tower of fame that the people already there
should want to assist their fellows up. When the sweet-
voiced Dolores arrives in any Australian city she is imme-
diately besieged by so many would-be singing stars that
she has to set aside a day for hearing them all. Yet
Dolores has no use whatever for them, as she wants no
“support ” at her recitals, and the utmost she can do is
to whisper “ Very nice,” with perhaps a word or two of
encouragement, in the ears of ambitious girldom.
Two or three of the little weeklies claiming to have a
Melbourne circulation gave away the fact that they didn’t
get a ticket for the Melba concerts by not publishing any
notices of them. The deadly silence was expected to
blight the tail end of the Melba season, but it merely
served to advertise Musgrove’s managerial ideas re “ the
courtesies usually extended to the Press.” The
“ courtesy ” in this case was worth a solid guinea a time,
whereas the notices obtainable from small weekly papers
would have been worth practically nix. Therefore they
got no tickets.
Tickets for Melba’s concerts did not boom in Sydnej'
One syndicate bought 160 tickets at £1 Is. each, and only
managed to dispose of about 40 at a premium. The
balance were gladly sold at face value. Tickets “ along-
side the Governor’s box ” changed hands at a guinea the
day previous to the first concert, though as much as £3
3s. had been glibly asked for them two weeks previously.
Melba practically compels her flautist to play the
obligato for “ Sweet Bird” in perfect harmony with her
voice. When they come to the note-and-note passages,
where one mistake by either of them would spoil the
work, Melba draws closer to the music-stand and domi-
nates the whole art and soul of the man who is
blowing his anxiety into the “ reed ” instrument, which,
by the way, seems to be made of silver. It is a study in
magnetism. He must play the singer’s note at the exact
instant. If she were to strike the wrong one, that pallid
accompanist would commit the same error, in unison
with the ruling power.
Musgrove gave a most diplomatic denial to the state-
ment that Melba will make a few Australian appearances
in opera. Read between the lines G.M.’s letter, conclud-
ing with a reference to “ the difficulties attendant on
Madame’s appearance in grand opera” is practically a
hint that only a warm demand for seats is needed to
remove those “ difficulties.” ’Tis the voice of the manager
crying, “ Ask and ye shall receive.”
“ S.S.” : “ Melb.” in a recent P. Point par. laments.that
Mrs. G. B. W. Lewis did not re-enact her Hamlet, which
might “be revived with advantage.” Mrs. G. B. W. L.
has just celebrated her professional jubilee, and it is a
case of weight for age, the lady being decidedly massive.
To invite an actress into Hamlet’s garments under such
circs, is to encourage her to make a comic spectacle of
herself. I have seen Mrs. Lewis do much pleasant work
on the Melbourne stage. I have also seen her attempt at
Hamlet, and my flesh still aches with sympathy for the
misguided actress when I think of it. The man who can
find delight in the spectacle of a stout, middle-aged lady
playing Hamlet is a strange bird. Seriously now,
wouldn’t “ Melb.” like to see Wilson Barrett’s graceful
and girlish performance of Juliet ?
Sandow took hints from Paul Cinquevalli in the little
bits of “ frill-work” with which he embellishes his turn.
But he hasn’t the juggler’s natural grace of gesture and
nonchalant style, and whereas Cinque, is essentially
manly in his decorative arts the big fellow’s mincing
1 stage mannerisms are feminine. “ Call him a Samson /”
! said a ruffled Melbourne johnnie, whose girl was gazing
1 fondly at the show-man’s gleaming muscle, “ He’s putting
!on the airs ©f Delilah.” Sandow’s way of limping off
suggests that he is somewhat muscle-bound in one leg.
Dr. O’Hara’s son has accepted an engagement to
tour Australia in the Black Art line. The erstwhile
Melb. medical student appeared originally at one
of Rickards’ theatres and then went to London. He made
a few appearances at the ’Alls, but principally confined
himself to acting as assistant to other magicians with a
view to picking up fresh wrinkles.
Josephine Stanton, the nice, blonde Amurrican actress
n Musgrove’s company, makes the novel confession to
having had quite a placid, non-sensational stage career.
She was brought up in the city that means Brotherly
Love, and has a recollection of sticking a pin into her
elder sister when that relative disapproved of Josephine’s
craving for stage honors. When the relative still dis-
approved, Josephine confesses to having arisen and
smacked the objecting one. Josephine has travelled all
over America, but found the “ jumps ” rather long. By
jurnfis she means journeys. Honolulu is a pleasant
memory of a farewell-night, when, playing lead in
“ Olivette,” she had flowers pelted at her till, at the
' close, she counted 85 bouquets. Miss Stanton’s pet
animal is the dog, but she likes her husband too, because
when she wants to read bloodthirsty novels, and doesn’t
want anyone to know it, she borrows them on the plea
that her husband never cares for anything else. This
misrepresented individual in reality loathes the gory
variety of literature.
“T.D.”: Training it Melbournewards the day before
Melba’s first concert, I overheard two Toorakiennes of
great magnificence agree that if the cantatrice secured
the homage of Yarra city audiences “ she ought to pass
muster anywhere.” That is to say, a woman who has
topped the tree in critical London, Paris, St. Petersburg,
and New York, not to speak of Milan, is liable to bite the
dust in the Marshall Hall citj - . It would be quite correct,
of course, if Melbourne were competent to judge. Spite
of all its boasting on the score of its musical culture, and
; the fact that Collins-street swarms with nice-looking
girls carrying copies of Bach’s “Inventions” and the
Marchesi singing-book under their arms, there is probably
less real music to the square yard in Melb. than in any
other Australasian big city. I have listened to villainous
programmes, given by musical neophytes and derelicts to
so-called critical audiences, which same programmes
consist of one-half Tosti’s “ Good-bye ” and a dreadful
ballad called “ Doreen,” and the other half Highland
Fling and a lecture by somebody with Scotland in his
whiskers. That kind of concert is always crowded, but
Dolores and Gerardy and many another great musician
who didn’t hail from the Presbyterian Ladies’ College had
to leave with depleted pockets.
In wiping out the free pass system, Vic.
Minister Bent was scrupulously careful not to
tread on the corns of the rich newspaper proprie-
taries by doing away with the rule which permits
of reporters travelling at half-fare. There is no
earthly reason why pressmen travelling in the
interests of purely commercial concerns like the
Argus and Age should be able to do so at halt
the rates paid by other people, and it must be
apparent to Bent, if he is really solicitous for
public economy, that perhaps £3OOO or £4OOO
yearly can be saved by making the paper bosses
pay up like other people.


A Grand Medical System
WONDERFUL CURES. WONDERFUL TESTIMONIES
When men are weak and practically disabled in life, they should avoid disaster which may end in Death. Hew Vigor, new Life, new
Strength, and unlimited Physical Power can be given by adopting for a short period the Electro-Medical Treatment or the judicious
uses of Electricity and Medicine. People are cured daily by this system who were otherwise classed as “ INCURABLE.”
EEMARKS.
WE have from time to time demonstrated, as leading physiologists and pathologists in the scientific world,
the fact that the permanent healing of grievous health-destroying diseases lies in the possession of a perfect know-
ledge of the causation and phenomena concerning them, and the accurate methods of treating them. Any practi-
tioner can prescribe for a complaint and treat it with that professional care embodied in set formula. But every
practitioner cannot heal or cure a disease. Honestly they endeavour, and unsuccessfully fail. Everywhere men and women try their doctors, receiving
little benefit. Millions of people suffer from chronic nerve and vital functional disorders, and never become cured of them, because they do not appeal to
the right sources. What the average medical man CANNOT CURE WITH HIS SET FORMULAS and obsolete forms of treatment, the
SPECIALIST, with his new ideas and modes of treatment, assisted by special knowledge, can. This is proven
BY THOUSANDS OF UNIMPEACHABLE TESTIMONIALS
received by THE SPECIALISTS of the FREEMAN and WALLACE INSTITUTE, in cases undertaken (and which they guarantee to cure) of nerve
and muscular disorders, stomach affections, etc.
Their new methods of nerve and physical strength restoration, by the employment of Electro-Therapeutic agents, is a new system, qualified by
singular success. Patients OCCUPYING THE HIGHEST POSITIONS in the world of Art and Letters, Sport and Commerce, gladly testify to great
cures. Electricity is Life, if judiciously applied by means of an ELECTRIC “ INVIGORATOR ” with reconstructive remedies, and such diseases as
HYSTERIA, INSOMNIA, PALPITATION, SCIATICA, EPILEPSY, BRAIN-FAG, EXHAUSTED YITAL FUNCTIONS, RHEUMATISM,
LUMBAGO, ABDOMINAL WEAKNESS, PILES, ST. VITAS’ DANCE, or CHRONIC or FUNCTIONAL NERVE DISORDERS, are surely
and permanently cured.
A DISTINGUISHED
PATRON.
THE SPECIALISTS have adapted
their Electro-Medical treatment in
numerous instances where sys-
tems had been run down and enfeebled
almost to the VERGE OF PREMA-
TURE DECAY. In cases of climatic
change and heavy study debilitating the
system, an infusion into the jaded sys-
tem of AN ELECTRIC MEDICATED
CURRENT, as used by three physicians
to the late Queen, gives that NECES-
SARY VITAL FORCE which, when
lacking, proves often the necleus and
genesis of grave nerve disorders.
Amongst numerous attestants to this
grand system is SIGNOR CARLO
DANI, the famous and distinguished
tenor of the ROYAL ITALIAN OPERA
COMPANY, lately visiting Sydney, and
who wore an Electric “ INVIGORA-
TOR,” by which he was greatly benefited.
This instrument was modelled after those
used by European Scientists, and of
which Mr. JOSEPH MEGSON, Cham-
pion Cyclist of N.S. Wales, speaks in
unstinted praise. Signor Carlo Dani,
whose testimony is irreproachable, suf-
fered much from lassitude, or nerve
exhaustion. Sufferers from this nerve
disorder will read the distinguished
singer’s declaration with more than usual
interest.
I
5. £
mm.
ii
,«
’ ' -s f
VV , •
-v-
SIGNOR CARLO DANI, the Distinguished Tenor.
Extracts from
Patients’ Letters.
« °
rpHE SPECIALISTS here publish a
a few extracts from the letters of
distinguished patients who have
been cured by this effective treatment.
Mr. JOSEPH MEGSON, Champion Cyclist
of New South Wales :
“ I was on the point of a constitutional break-
up more than once. The quality of the
‘IN VIGOR ATOR’supplied to me is beyond
question.”
Mr. J. H. BROWN, Professional Pianist: —
“I suffered from BRAIN FAG, and was
cured by your Electro Medical Treatment.”
A PROMINENT SYDNEY POST-
OFFICE OFFICIAL :
“ I am completely cured of RHEUMATISM
and INDIGESTION, from which I suffered
for years. Your Electric ‘IN VIGOR A-
TOR ’ is magical in its effects.”
Mr. G. JOHNS, Champion Light-weight
Pugilist of Australia :
“I wore your ‘ IN VIGOR ATOR’ in train-
ing and actual contests. It did me undoubted
good.”
Mr. E. H. AMES, exponent in Australia of
the “TOD SLOAN” style of riding,
says :
“ I have obtained marvellous benefits from
your Electro-Medical Treatment. I regained
my nerve-power by use of your I INVIGOR-
ATOR,’ and won two great racing events in
one day.”
These are but a few from many thousands. The
reader is asked to glance at the testimony of Signor
Carlo Danl. Such declarations should cause serious
reflection
(t I have much pleasure in informing you that owing to the great lassitude I have experienced here, due, no doubt, to sudden
climatic changes, I have been induced to try one of your Electric ‘lnvigorators,’ from which I have obtained great benefit to my
nervous and muscular systems.”
Yours cordially j
(TRANSLATION FROM ORIGINAL COPY TO BE SEEN AT THE INSTITUTE).
All attestants may be interviewed. The SPECIALISTS’ treatment is sure and effective. Improvement is rapid and certain.
You need not fear but that you WILL RECOVER if you try a course of Electro-Medication. It acts at once on the nervous centres, animating the nerves, re-strengthening the muscular
system, equalising the circulation, improving the blood-stream. It clears the brain, strengthens and regulates the beating of the heart, and makes a man or woman healthy and strong, AS
NATURE INTENDED THEM TO BE. A man is no longer feeble under this treatment ; he REGAINS ALL HIS LOST STRENGTH, and finds no physical trial that he cannot
conquer. It is the finest medium in the world to physical peace and domestic harmony.
PRICES.
The Prices of these wonderful curative “ INVIORATORS ” are as follow:
Copper Plate, £1 ; Silver Plate, £1 10s; Solid Silver, £3 ; Solid Gold, £lO (2oz. 18ct. Gold).
The Specialists hold Certificates of Efficacy unpossessed by others, and give private tests to anyone who cares to call. Two leading Sydney electricians
assert they are “ electrically perfect, and their currents are continuous as used for medical purposes.”
These “ INVIGORATORS ” have passed through the Customs for the last five years as genuine Electric Appliances.
The Specialists’ Fees : Professional Advice and Medicine, £l.
CREDENTIALS.
NINE Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration of the Physician-in-
Chief by the Medical Boards of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia,
England and America, open for public inspection at the Institute. Late Homoeopathic
Hospital, Melbourne, and British Imperial Army Medical Staff.
Sir DOMINIC CORRIGAN, Bart., Physician to the late Queen, speaking of the
Physician-in-Chief, says:—“l entertain a high opinion of Dr. Wallace in regard to his
professional qualifications.”
“ CLINICAL EXPERIENCES.”
CONTAINING 550 pages of medical literature, 150 full and half-page medical illustra-
tions, fully explains, in the chapter devoted to Electricity, the general laws governing
the application of electricity to the human frame. An exhaustive exposition of the systems
employed in the doctrine of Electro-Medication is given, showing the benefits to be derived
from a judicious use of the Electric Bath, Battery, or Belt. The uses of these are
individually explained. This valuable medical work is posted free to any address on
receipt of ONE SHILLING IN STAMPS.
FREEMAN * WALLACE
fi FnTpn.Mcnir.ai
and SURGICAL INSTITUTE
ELIZABETH and BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director Electro-Medical Department.
Dr. RICHARD WALLACE, M.D., L.R.C.P., E., L.F.P.S , E., L.M., Physician-in-Chiev.
Medicines packed Free -From Observation and sent to all parts of Australia.
Letters treated with Professional Secrecy and promptly replied to.


presents that mill please
[OU cannot possibly be disappointed by visit-
ing us, so come here whether you have
a definite idea of what you want or not.
We offer you the biggest variety and the most
reasonable prices it is possible to offer.
If you have not seen our new Catalogue,
ark us for one. If you live out of town
send us your name and address on a post-
card and you will get one by return mail.
No. F 4708.
Silver-plated
and Pearl
Bread Fork,
11s 6d.
No. F3462.—Fine Leather, and Silver-
Mounted Pocket Book, 10s 6d.
F3939.—Gent.’s Silver Hair
Brush, 21s.
No. 374 A.—6 Silver-plated Tea Spoons
and Tongs, 10s Cd.
No. 363.—A1 Silver-plated Sugar Tongs,
3s 6d.
.
No. 253.—501 id Silver Match 13ox, 10s 6d.
No. E 9356.
Silver
Glove
Buttoner,
Is 6d.
Hi fill ini p»
No. 20.— Gent.’s Opal
Ring, 18ct. gold,
£i 10s.
No. EBO3l.- Tasteful 9ct. Gold Bangle, £ll7s. 6d.
No. B4B9o.—Dia-
mond Ruby and
18ct. Gold Ring,
No. M.—l6ct. Gold and Opal Fly Brooch, £l lss.
No. 120.—15 ct. Gold, Diamond and Ruby
Brooch, £2. 7s Od.
No. 121A.—15cfc. Gold Anchor Brooch,
£ll2s 6d.
v>"
r b
No. E6251.—9ct. Gold Bird and Heart
Brooch, 12s 6d.
15ct. Gold Heavy Band Bracelet, £4 4s. Smaller, £3
m
No. E 6659. —9ct. Gold Engraved Bracelet, £ll7s 6d.
No. 193. —Links, Oct.
Gold, 15s Od. 15c.
Gold, £llos. Silver,
4s Od.
No. 197.—Links, Ocfc. Gold,
£1 ss. 15ct. Gold, £2 ss.
Silver, 6s 6d.
No. E7707.—9ct. Gold,
Pearl and Turquoise
Lace Brooch, £1 Is.
Fine Diamond Marquise
Ring, £4O.
t
No. 241.
Diamond - set
Scarf Pin,
£3 17s 6d.
No. 240. —
15ot. Gold
and Pearl
Pin, £1 ss.
No. F 6128. —Silver-plated Toast
Rack, 12s 6d.
AD OSTr hi
No. F3s62.—Silver Cabinet Photo.
Frame, 16s 6d.
No. EG444. Engraved
A 1 Silver-plated Napkin
2 Ring, 5s 6d.
No. EB499.—Purse and Card Case,
4 Silver Corners and Lock, £1 Is.
iJaHS
No. 359.—Silver-plated Breakfast
Cruet-, 13s 6d.
No. E7o72.—Silver
and Ivory Rattle,
13s 6d.
Fine Opal and 15ct.
Gold Heart, £6 6s
Smaller, 765.
Silver-plated
Spectacle
Case, 14s 6d.
THE GREAT
BENDIGO
EXHIBITION
ART UNION
To be drawn at Bendigo on
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 24.
TOTAL PRIZES, £2400
c£looo for *s.
£1 000 for 1s -
PRIZES TO THE AOVgAA
VALUE OP
Ist Prize, £lOOO
2nd „ 600
3rd ~ 400
4th „ 150
sth „ 100
6th „ 75
DISTRIBUTED.
7th Prize, £25
Bth
9th
10th
11th
12th „
15
10
10
10
5
The committee undertakes to provide a purchaser for
the full value of the first prize, less 10 per cent. ; for £250
worth of the second prize, and for £l5O of the third prize
pictures. The winners of the fourth to the twelfth prizes
will have the option of selecting their own pictures.
LAST WEEKS OF SALE.
Secure your Tickets Early from all Stores, Newsagents,
and Stationers throughout Australia.
GEO. V. ALLEN,
• General Secretary,
17 Garraway’s Chambers, Queen’s Walk,
Collins Street, MELBOURNE, opp. Town Hall.
TT.CiTR! iih ii ~H
SPOONEE’S
11l
■ .
SPOONERS
MOM
v
*
lATENT LEATHER BOCT
'GLAZED RIOS :
• i.atu «*f
t+frt h;
*«♦»*» *4
$1
ffj
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing tor
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP, •
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Soßl by all Storekeepers,
Hoot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
AERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR
RECOMMENDED by all the leading medical men throughout the world
as the ideal form of body covering, being light to wear, comfortable to
the skin, unshrinkable, easily washed, and very durable ; permits free
evaporation of moisture and deleterious vapours, and is
A Positive Safeguard against Chills.
Undershirts, 35., 4s. ; Underpants, ss. 6d., 6s. 6d.; Soft-fronted Shirts,
45., ss. ; Soft Shirts (collar and pocket), 4s. 6d., ss. 6d. ; Linen-fitted, ss. 6d.,
6s. 6d., 7s. ■, Pyjamas, Bs. 6d., 9s. 6d., 10s. 6d. ; Lady’s Combinations
from ss. 6d. Corsets and all Underclothing.
Illustrated Price Lists post=free on application.
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.,
73 and 75 KINO STREET,
Sole Agents in N.S.W.
SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 1846.
Babbit Galvanised Wire Netting, 42in. x ljin. x 17 pnage,
40s. 100-yard rolls; also Large Stock other Sizes
Wire Netting.
Roofing Felt, 75ft. by 32in., Bs. per roll.
500 Tons Bolts and Nuts, up to 30in. long.
Black, Galvanised, Steam Piping, J to Bin. diameter.
Bullock, Leading, Drag, Back Chains, 2d. lb.
Good Quality Fuse in Cases, 300 coils, 4Jd. coil.
Octagon Steel, I in. dia., £2O per ton.
Wood Split Pulley Wheels, 20in. dia., ss. each.
Wire Nails, from 10s. per cwt.
5 Tons Black Hoop Iron, \ x l-16th, £lO 10s. per ton.
And one of the Largest Stocks of Iron-
mongery in Australia. Cheapest Prices.
John macintosh #> Senses-
t
Wholesale and Retail Ironmongers,
Importers, Builders, Contractors,
Engineers, Plumbers, Blacksmiths,
Cabinet Makers, and General Iron-
mongery, and Painters Material,
307, 323, 325, 276, 278 PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
TOOTH-ACHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
Prevents Decay, Save 3
Extraction, Sleepless Nights
Prevented.
Neuralgic Head aches & all Nerve
Pains removed by HUNTER’S
NERVINE. Of all Stores.
NERVINE
“As a specific for Tooth ache it has no equal. I have
used it successfully for years.”—Prof, W. Wilson, M.D,
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’S WORSDELL’S PILLS
Are a certain Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Head ache,
Dyspepsia, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, &c.
Of all Stores.
GANT YOU BREATHE
freely ? Have you to sit up in bed gasping for
breath? If so, you are only one of a countless
number whose lives are made a burden to them by
ASTHMA.
If you wish to rest again at night, and breathe
with head erect by day, send ss. to NEWHAM
WATER WORTH, Edward-st., Brisbane,
who will forward post free a sample bottle of a
New Remedy for Asthma, a few doses of which
will prove to you that Me is still worth living.
PHOTO
Models from Life, Beautiful Stereo-
scopies, etc. List with 100 Minia-
ture and 3 Cabinet size photos.
ss. P.O.C. or stamps.
S. RECKNACEL NACHF, Munich, 1 Brieffach, Germany.
■F.
C\* S
M*
<r <?
<§


Pleasant and Refreshing to the Taste
and
Truly Beneficial in Effect.
r
m
ail’
nc
«
©
is above all things a natural remedy; that is, it assists nature to
perform the functions essential to health in an absolutely natural
way, without any injurious or weakening effects. Its perfect
freedom from every objectionable quality and substance makes
it the ideal laxative. California Syrup of Figs,
NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE,
acts gently and painlessly upon the Liver, Stomach and Kidneys,
thoroughly cleansing the system, promoting healthful regularity,
and leaving the organs permanently strengthened. It is the best
and most pleasant remedy for Constipation, Sluggish Liver,
Biliousness, Indigestion, Depression, Feverishness, Loss
of Appetite, Headache, and all kindred complaints, speedily
restoring health, appetite, energy and good spirits.
Ask for CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIQS, and look for the
Name and Trade Mark of the
CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP COMPANY,
31 & 32 SNOW HILL, LONDON, ENGLAND.
Australian Branch—7 Barrack Street, Sydney.
Of all leading Chemists,
m
m
m
m
m
m
m
*mm
i
wm
■-<
i
n
-'ir.
Ws
-
Hagar: A Problem Without
Solution.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
iTis in the backyardsof respectability that many of
the disreputable affairs of life occur. The nature of
what we call society is to put a grand front before
a back of very unpresentable pretensions. So
nobody could complain of Reginald Ascher’s social
propriety, and, being a vigorous self-deceiver, he
hardly realised the hypocrisy of his life. He was
happily married, his business was carried on in a
reputable way and returned profits, and his in-
clination for poetry was excusable.
But one day came discovery. His wife learnt
that there was another woman—a woman, too,
who had possibly held sway during a longer reign
than herself. Discovery did not come all in a day,
however; it had been approaching for many
weeks under the kind leadership of her dearest
friends, and it found her to some extent prepared.
After a fit of hysterical unreasonableness she made
her resolution and dismissed her friends, and
Ascher learnt that his denials could not cover the
mischief.
His wife, however, was what might be known
as a sensible woman. She never would have,
under any circumstances, placed herself in the
position of the other woman, and therefore blamed
the woman solely. She told herself, with a glow
of passionate feeling, that she would not alienate
her husband, but he must refrain, and join with
her in defying the scandal raised.
But she hardly realised the man’s position and
his unwillingness. The bareness of the respect-
able lack of respectability in his life was, for the
first time, before him ; and he knew that people
would class him with the casual free-lover, while,
in his heart, he felt he loved both women.
And the other woman, the first, had in reality
the greatest claim on his care. He recalled, with
a glow of remorse, how she, a girl at the time, had
attracted hini with the pale expressiveness of her
face, and the hungry, craving look of her eyes. She
was a girl-clerk, passionately revolting against the
drudgery of her life, friendless and alone, and he
had stolen into her life, been her only friend,
winning in exchange for his kindness the full rich-
ness of her love. He remembered she had cast
herself upon him, and he had debated strongly in
his heart about her, because of his wish to live
rightly ; but in his youthful repugnance for ties
he had chosen the easier way. She, in the confi-
dence of her passion, had never questioned or
doubted ; he was less abandoned, more cautious ;
but there had been days of delight when she
revelled in the things he gave her, when the
hungry, weary look began to give way to a glowing
passion of gratitude.
Remembering all this, the time when his heart
became divided was a time of pain. That recol-
lection was plain as the others, the striving to put
the new image away from him, the wish to be as
just as his nature allowed, struggling against incli-
nation. But the freedom from the bonds of
marriage was like a spirit on the side of the
newer face, and the newer face won.
Even when the new love had grown on him, and
was at its height, a tenderness that was not the
tenderness of regret, still tied him to the older
one, and his double life began. He had got into
the fashion of smoothing over the duplicity of his
conduct by assuring himself it was all for the sake
of one who had cast herself upon his chivalry.
Now, suddenly, he became aware that he loved
her—so well, that choosing between his wife and
her, his heart was divided as a child’s between its
mother and fathen He could not explain all the
circumstances to his wife—nor any. She had all
the prosaic virtues, and he loved her; she had not
the passionate abandon—which is not regarded
as a virtue except by its recipient—of her rival; and
she could not believe in anyone who disregarded
marriage in the fulfilment of love. Moreover, she
had been Wronged bitterly ; she had the right to
demand respectability of her husband. The fact
dawned upon him that the position he had been
run into was altogether unreasonable; and yet
to alter it meant the spoiling of someone’s life.
“ One way or the other, it must end,” insisted his
wife; “ either you must give up this woman, or I
cannot live with you any longer.”
“It would seem unreasonable to you,” he said,
“if I were to attempt to explain to you. lam
willing to give up the girl; but I must make her
some allowance. ”
“Make her what allowance you please,” she
responded, “as long as you never see her again.”
That was what she would feel. If she never saw
him again the allowance would be nothing to her;
she would be deserted, lonely and miserable, and
pine away. But his wife was indignantly inexor-
able; he must either yield or she would leave
him.
And he could not give up his wife! No, he
could not do that ! After all, if his wife left him,
if she sued for a divorce, what he was trying to
keep from the other woman would be revealed to
her with a harder face than ever, and the whole
misery of the position would be shown to the
world. There was only one way.
“Inez,” he pleaded ; “it may seem impossible
to you to believe that I have loved you truly all
this time; it is impossible to explain it. I will do
what you say. God forgive me for the wrong I
have done, but I can’t give you up.”
She was cold, but with a coldness that would
thaw ; in her heart there was the resolution regis-
tered not to lose him. He was in a fever to get
the whole affair cleared-up and its misery over.
Driving in a cab to the place he was to visit for
the last time, the misery grew upon him. He saw
a white face, blank and terrible with despair;
grief bowing down a heart that had never discip-
lined itself to bear anything. The picture was
horrible ; his wife, in her well-trained pride, could
bear anything with a certain grace ; to the other,
grief was utter abandonment.
There came an instant resolution to get the
interview over, and hurry away to drown in some
way the vision of her bitterness.
When he arrived at his destination she came
rushing to meet him. For a moment he held her
off, noticed her look of blank consternation and
yielded. She was a storm of passion it was
impassible to resist.
“You have come,” she said, passionately.
“ What has kept you ? Three days, and you have
not been near me ! How can I live without you
so long ! ”
She was crying, at the ominous whiteness of his
face, as much as at the memory of her loneliness.
How could he give the hard news he had to give
to her? Instantaneously he resolved a postpone-
ment.
Somehow the pleasure of seeing her happy
hardened his heart to the immediate peril of his
Position. What were the bonds and censures of
ociety to him ? She was a woman whose passion
was a thing ethereal, unique, apart from the com-
monness of the world; he was a man —when with
her, a poet whose heart was flooded with poetry.
His impulse asserted itself; his will grew bolder ;
he would not give her up for all the demands of
social propriety.
“ Dearest,” he whispered to her, “ when you
see me pale and doubtful as I have been, throw
your arms round me as you have done to-night.
I remember how I swore that you should never
suffer for your love for me—and you shall not.”
The position was the same as before; the
problem unsolved, insoluble ; and yet, as it stood,
impossible.
His wife had thought the black chapter of his
life was closed. In time she had resolved she
would forget; her love for him was too strong for
her to make a resolution to absolutely blot him
out. Passionately she rebelled at her own decrees
for leaving him. Even when the realisation came
that her threat had been ineffectual, it was im-
possible at once, with one act, to sever herself
from him. Yet, believing he loved her, she
resolved that showing coldness would drive him to
do what more decisive threats had failed to effect.
Ascher suddenly felt her affection leaving him,
and a new catastrophe yawned for him. He
would not notice it, but still it terrified him. In
those days there was no enjoyment in his life.
Sometimes in the agony of the impending crisis
he half resolved to do as she wished, but could
not.
“Inez,” he said, one day, passionately inter-
cepting her as she was leaving ; “ this life must
end ; you are brutally cold to me.”
“ Can you wonder ? ” she answered. “You ! ”
“What you want me to do,” he continued,
furiously, “is to break a woman’s heart ; because
I will not do it, you want to make my life miser-
able. Will you be satisfied if I swear to you,
though I will see her occasionally so as to keep
her from being miserable, I will be faithful to
you ? ”
“No,” she answered, curtly.
“ You do not trust me, I suppose ? ” pursued
Ascher.
“No,” answered his wife ; “you do not seem
to care about my being miserable,” she flashed,
iealously.
Then she turned and left him ; and he, going
out with a fixed determination, repeated, half-
mechanically, “ This life must end.”
For the coldness of his wife, and the warmth of
the other woman, had driven him to his resolu-
tion ; but there was a sense of dull loss at his
heart. He was a miser, who had jettisoned one-
half of his wealth for the keeping of the other,
and was troubled with doubts.
Inez woke to the realisation when, in two days,
he had not returned. In a moment all the
demands of her pride vanished; she could have
blinded herself to his doings, only to have him by
her. Now he was lost for ever.
But when that first feeling went, a strange
change seemed to creep into her heart, a sort of
carelessness about everything. Her nature had
not been openly passionate, but its reserve had
been strained to high tension; now reserve and
passion seemed both gone, and instead there was
a strange impersonal obliviousness to feeling, in
which only one thing mattered —the external
world.
He was at his office, as usual, when she came
upon him, and he was annoyed to see her.
“Reginald,” she said, quite calmly, “have you
resolved not to return home ? ”
“You forced me to it,” he stammered.
“I want you to return; I will act the part of
wife as well as I can, and we need not lose our
social standing.”
“You want me to return?” he said, eagerly.
“But there are no considerations, no conditions?”
“No,” she replied ; “do as you like ; all I want
you to do is to return home, to maintain the
semblance of respectability. Maintain our social
position—that’s what I want. I have nothing
but my social position to live for.”
“I will come,” he said, watching her with
apprehensive eyes. “ And when I have got you
to understand everything, you may perhaps
realise .”
“No,” she answered with a callous laugh.
“ There is no necessity for it; Ido not desire it.”
HAMER.
Pelorus Jack and Big Ben.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The visitor to Maoriland hasn’t done the Land of
the Kiwi thoroughly unless he has seen Pelorus
Jack.
Pelorus Jack is the pet of Maoriland. Going
from Picton to the West Coast, we passed the
gentleman’s home about three o’clock in the
morning and he wasn’t visible, but, returning, it
was a bright day, and the French Pass looked
nicer than a picture. This pass is about the width
of a fairly broad river; it connects Tasman Bay
with Pelorus Sound, and separates D’Urville
Island from the mainland. The tide boils through
like a flood, and as you swing along you can tell
the color of the lighthouse-keeper’s daughter’s
eyes, and the passengers chaff her. Further on a
fishing-boat fastens-on for stores, and when it is
thrown off Pelorus Jack flirts his tail above water.
Pelorus Jack is a fish, his tail shaped like a five-
days’-old moon, and his body the guise of an old-
fashioned soda-water bottle. The dorsal fin is
like that of a porpoise, but the head is bluff like
a killer’s, and he has a blow-hole. His color is
a grey-nurse shark’s, and he measures about 12ft.
He accompanies every steamer for about 15
minutes, playing about the nose of the vessel like
a porpoise ; the porpoises clear out as soon as he
appears, and return as soon as he leaves. They
evidently fear him. He has been greeting vessels
for the past 15 years, and is so esteemed that he is
protected by a special Act of Parliament.
There is something pathetic about this solitary
fish and his friendship for ships. Maybe his mate
was killed from a ship passing that way, and
he is waiting for her. return. Who knows ? And
the affection is not one-sided. Those sailor-men
show their weak side when you become interested
in their pet. One old salt told me of a fool-
traveller who came to sea with a gun. He was
like most men —ready to kill anything that can’t
talk ; so he took a shot at poor Pelorus Jack.
The captain put him ashore at Pioton.
This reminded me of another pet fish and
another fool-traveller with a gun, and I told him
about Big Ben of Kiama, but the sailorman’s eyes
looked stony, and he didn’t_ seem to like any
community but Maoriland having a fish for a pet,
But the people of Kiama never weary in telling
you about Big Ben. These people live on ghosts
and milk and blue-metal, and they have a Blow*
Hole where the sea climbs up as far as it ean and
then falls limply baok, like the spray from a soda*
water bottle. In the days of Big Ben their pas*
time was to go up to the Blow-Hole and feed their
pet shark with a dead horse,
Ben was the largest shark- along the coast, and,
knowing how partial the Kiamaites were to him
he lived mostly off the town. The fool-traveller
with the gun who tried to shoot Kiama’s Big Ben
was prosecuted for shooting within the precincts
of the town and heavily fined.
Nobody seems to know what became of Big Ben,
but Kiama folks have their theories, One man
told me that the fool-traveller hurt his feelings if
he didn’t hurt him somewhere else, and that the
shark abandoned Kiama for ever. Another
alleged that a sacrilegious quarryman went down
to the Blow-llole and gave the shark a hunk of
beef in which was a plug of dynamite with a slow
match attached. It seems that this quarryman
had a grudge against Kiama and had sworn to be re-
venged, and at certain times when lie had wanted
to hurt the feelings of Kiama people he had been
known to damn Big Ben.
You hear strange stories at Kiama; fearsome
monsters lurk in the deep there. One Saturday
afternoon, a boat capsized off the Blow-llole, and
two men were drowned JThab night, men went
out to recover the bodies, and they came back and
told how they found a corpse caught in the hal-
liards, and, as they came close, they saw a sea-
monster move off. It was bright moonlight, and
they could see it swimming about, looking at them
with enormous, baleful eyes, that expressed almost
human intelligence, and then it disappeared. A
fisherman told me that a similar monster to this
frightened him from deep-sea fishings He went
to work in the quarries.
They seem to have an intimate knowledge of
sharks in Kiama. One man said to me, “When
you hook a shark, haul in as fast as you can. A
shark is no fool. When he feels he is hooked, he
rushes forward to bite the line.” Another man
said “ The shark is the most passionate lover in
the world. When he makes love, he tear* his
sweetheart frightfully with his teeth.”
ROBERT BROTHERS.


THE KIDNEYS:
WHERE THEY ARE, AND WHAT THEY DO.
As the kidneys have more work to
do than any organ of the body, it is
important to know where they are,
what they are, and what they do.
The picture shows where the kid-
neys are—in the small of the back.
That is why the back aches when
there is kidney trouble.
What are the kidneys?—They are
two bean-shaped organs, made up of
thousands of small cells and fine mem-
branes. They are the most delicate
organs of the body. When the kid-
neys are weak, the least cold or chill
affects their action.
What the kidneys do.—They filter
the blood—every drop of our blood
goes to the kidneys to be filtered and
purified. When they are well the
kidneys take out nearly five hundred
grains of impure matter every twenty-
four hours.
When the kidneys are sick every
organ goes wrong, because sick kid-
neys cannot filter the blood properly.
Poisons and impurities are left in,
and these cause headaches, backaches,
limb aches, fluttering of the heart,
dropsy, and rheumatism. There will
be a too great or too little flow of the
urine, with gravel or sediment; you
will feel always tired, done up, ner-
vous, and restless.
Doan’s backache Kidney Pills are
the great kidney and bladder cure.
They go to the root of the whole
trouble, and greatly relieve, heal, and
regulate the kidneys. They freshen
you up, because they rid the body of
its accumulated impurities through the kidneys.
To one with kidney or bladder trouble, whose kidneys and whole system
are clogged with impurities, there can be no relief equal to that afforded
by this great kidney medicine.
m
si ft
Kioweys
Doan’s Backache jgidaey pills
But do not be satisfied with our word for this;
Read what our fellow townspeople say :
Mrs. W. Gow, 31 John-street, Leichhardt, this city, says:—“For a
number of years my husband has been bad with the kidneys. He had been
trying many remedies to get relief, but the only remedy that succeeded in this
way was Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. For two years previous to using
these pills he did little or no work. He is a wood-turner, and this labour is
very severe upon him. The first dose of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills did
him so much good that he said he could have started work next day. Ido not
suppose that any medicine could absolutely cure him, but Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills relieve him at all times. When the cold weather comes on he
gets the pains again, and then a dose or two of these pills send them all away.
They act splendidly upon him, and enable him to do his work. My son-in-law
had pains in the back, brought on by fever, and the pills cured him. Some
of the neighbours I know swear by Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. I might
state that it is over twelve months ago when my husband first took the pills.”
If every cold or chill affects the back and kidneys ; if spirits, beer, or tea
excite the kidneys, or if you have any of the symptoms given above, Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills will relieve and cure you. They do not act on the
bowels, but only on the kidneys and bladder, and can, therefore, be taken
whenever and as often as necessary, without interfering with your daily
work. To one with kidney trouble, whose kidneys and whole system are
clogged with impurities, there can be no relief equal to that afforded by this
great Kidney medicine. It dissolves the gravel and uric acid, and carries
them and all other poisons out through the kidneys, giving the patient
prompt and lasting relief.
For sale by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes,
15s. 3d.), or will be posted, on receipt of price, by Foster-McClellan Co., 76
Pitt-street, Sydney.
BUT BE SURE THEY ARE DOAN S.
Itching Piles Cured,
Mr. J. J. Gannon, 108 Denison-street, New-
town, says:—“l have been bad with Itching
Piles for a good many years. It was only
Itching Piles at first, but after a time an
itchiness of the skin seemed to come from it,
and I had an itchiness to bear in more parts
than one. Between the two my torture was
terrible at times. I tried everything to get
rid of it, was treated by doctors and chemists,
and tried everything obtainable that was re-
commended for itching skin troubles. Some-
time ago I resolved to try the remedy which
cured Mr. Gilliver —I knew Mr. Gilliver, and
knew that he was not the man to make a false
statement, and if he recommended a thing it
must be good, so I got the remedy which
cured him—Doan’s Ointment. This remedy
did me good soon after I started using it, and
by the time I had used two pots I was quite
cured. It is now three months since I used
the Ointment, and I’ve not had any sign of the
piles and the skin trouble since. It is my
opinion that Doan’s Ointment will cure any-
body of Itching Piles.”
Mrs. Gannon confirms the above: “It is
two years ago since my husband made the
above statement. lam pleased to say he has
remained free of the piles and itching of the
skin ever since. It is wonderful the way the
ointment acted. We have had letters from
different parts of the State, asking if it is
correct, and we have replied to each letter,
advising the use of Doan’s Ointment.”
It cannot be repeated, too often that Doan’s
Ointment will cure itching piles. It will cure
them absolutely. But, don’t take the manu-
facturer’s word for this, ask Mr. Gannon. He
knows, for it cured him, and he lives here in
Sydney. Is not that the best possible kind of
proof ? Could there be better ?
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all chemists and
storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per pot, or will be
posted on receipt of price by Foster M'Clellan
Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
But, be sure you get DOAN’S.
The “Evangelists.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I heard the hot Evangelists’ appeal—
Their faces flushed with all a business zeal,
Their Mission placarded on every wall,
And advertised in every journal’s call;
Their sermons duly followed by the plate,
Their eye on all the takings at the gate,
Their campaign profits duly noted down,
Their “ Saving Grace” the talk of all the town ;
I heard the voice (the twang I noted well)
Deal out a liberal dose of Heaven and Hell,
Deal out the dogmas—like a travelling quack
Dispense the wares from out the Yankee sack,
And then announce—in drawling monotone :
“To-morrow morn We Preach To Men Alone /”
O, Teacher Tender —far in other days—
Who bad’st the children “Come” in Jewry’s
ways,
Were these the types of Thine Apostles true?
Were these the men who made the Chosen Few ?
Nay—such, I ween, were never near to Thee
(Save when they cast the lots around the Tree).
Nay—such as these, I ween, were never Thine—
Their kin ran headlong with Gadara’s swine.
P.L.
The Dog.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The cat is the rou6, sportsman, gambler, gay
Lothario of the animal kingdom. The dog is the
workman, a member of society who likes to have
his day’s work, and who does it more conscien-
tiously than most human beings. A dog always
looks as if he ought to have a pipe in his mouth
and a black bag for his lunch, and then he would
go quite happily to office every day.
A dog without work is like a man without work,
a nuisance to himself and everybody else. People
who live about town, and keep a dog to give the
children hydatids and to keep the neighbors
awake at night, imagine that the animal is fulfill-
ing his destiny and is not capable of anything
better. All town dogs, fancy dogs, show dogs,
lap-dogs, and dogs with no work to do, should
be at once abolished ; it is only in the country that
a dog has any justification for his existence.
The old theory that animals have only instinct,
and not reason, is knocked endways by the dog.
A dog can reason as well as a human being on
some subjects, and better on others; and undoubt-
edly the best reasoning dog of all is the sheep-dog.
The sheep-dog is a professional artist with a pride
in his business. Watch any drover’s dogs bring-
ing sheep into the yards. How thoroughly they
feel their responsibility, and how very annoyed
they get if any stray vagrant dog with no occupa-
tion wants them to stop and fool about! They
snap at him and hurry off as much as to say “You
go about your idleness. Don’t you see this is my
busy day ? ”
Dogs are followers of Carlyle. They hold that
the only happiness for a dog in this life is to find
his work and to do it. The idle, dilettante, non-
working, aristocratic dog they have no use for.
The training of a sheep-dog for his profession
begins at a very early age. The first thing is to
take him out with his mother and let him see her
working. He blunders out light-heartedly, frisk-
ing about in front of the horse, and he gets his
first lesson that day, for his owner tries to ride
over him, and generally succeeds. That teaches
him one thing —to keep behind the horse till he is
wanted. It is amusing to see how it knocks all
the gas out of a puppy, and with what a humble
air he falls to the rear and glues himself to the
horse’s heels, scarcely daring to look to the right
or to the left, for fear he may commit some
other breach of etiquette. Then he watches the
old slut work, and is allowed to go with her round
the sheep, and, as likely as not, if he shows any
disposition to get out of hand and frolic about) the
old lady will bite him sharply to prevent his inter-
fering with her work.
Then by degrees, slowly, like any other profes-
sional, he learns his business. He learns to bring
sheep after a horse simply at a wave of the hand ;
to force the mob up to a gate where they can be
counted or drafted ; learns to follow the scent of
lost sheep and to drive sheep through a town
without any master, one dog going on ahead to
block the sheep from turning off into by-streets,
while the other drives them on from the rear.
How do they learn all these things? Dogs for
show-work are taught painstakingly by men who
are skilled in handling them, but, after all, they
teach themselves more than the men teach them.
There is no doubt that the acquired knowledge of
generations is transmitted from dog to dog. The
puppy, descended from a race of good sheep-dogs,
starts with all his faculties directed towards the
working of sheep ; he is half-educated as soon as
he is born. He can no more help working sheep
than a born musician can help playing the fiddle,
or a Hebrew can help making money. It is bred
in him. If he can’t get sheep to work, he will
work a fowl; and often and often one can see a
collie pup painstakingly and carefully driving a
bewildered old hen into a stable or a stock-yard,
or any other enclosed space on which he has fixed
his mind. How does he learn to do that ? He
didn’t learn it at all. The knowledge was born
with him.
It would be interesting to get examples of this
inherited ability, and only that I don’t want to let
a flood of dog-liars loose on the paper, I would
suggest to the editor to invite correspondence
from those who have seen unquestionable examples
of young, untaught animals doing things which
they could only have learnt by inheritance.
When the dog has been educated, or educated
himself, he enjoys his work ; but sometimes, if he
thinks he has had enough of it, he will deliberately
quit and go home. Very few dogs like work “in
the yards.” The sun is hot, the dust rises
in clouds, and there is nothing to do but
bark, bark, bark, which is all very well
for learners' and amateurs but is beneath
the dignity of the true professional sheep-dog.
Then, when the dogs are hoarse with barking and
nearly choked with dust, the men lose their tem-
pers and swear at them, and throw clods of earth
at them, and sing out to them “Speak up, blast
you!” At last the dogs suddenly decide that
they have done enough for the day, and, watching
their opportunity, they silently steal over the
fence, and go and hide in any cool place they can
find... After a while the men notice that hardly
any Jogs are left, and then operations are sus-
pended while a great hunt is made into all out-
lying pieces of cover, where the dogs are sure to
be found lying low and looking as guilty as so
many thieves. A clutch at the scruff of the neck,
a kick in the ribs, and the dog is hauled out of his
hiding place, and accompanies his master to the
yard, frolicking about and pretending that he is
quite delighted to be going back to work, and
only happened to have hid in that bush out of
sheer thoughtlessness. He is a champion hypo-
crite, is the dog.
After working another ten minutes, he will be
over the fences again ; and he won’t hide in the
same place twice. The second time he will be a
lot harder to find than the first time.
Dogs, like horses, have very keen intuition.
They know when a man is frightened of them,
and they know when the men around them are
frightened, though they may not know the cause.
In the great Queensland strike, when the shearers
attacked Dagworth shed, some rifle-volleys were
exchanged. The shed was burnt, and the air was
full of human electricity, each man giving out
waves of fear and excitement. Mark now the
effect it had on the dogs. They were not in the
fighting; nobody fired at them, and nobody spoke
to them ; but every dog left his master, left the
sheep, and went away about six miles to the home-
stead. There wasn’t a dog about the shed next
day, after the fight. They knew there was some-
thing out of the common in the way of danger.
The noise of the rifles would not frighten them,
because many of them were dogs that were very
fond of going out turkey-shooting.
The same thing happened constantly with
horses in the S’African war. A loose horse would
feed contentedly about while his own troops were
firing; but when the troops were being fired at,
and a bullet or two whistled past, the horses at
once became uneasy, and the loose ones would
trot away. The noise of a bullet passing cannot
have been as terrifying to them as the sound of
a rifle going off, but the nervousness and excite-
ment of the men communicated itself to them.
There are more capacities in horses and dogs,
Horatio, than are dreamt of in your philosophy.
Dogs have an amazing sense of responsibility.
Sometimes, when there are sheep to be worked,
an old slut, who has young puppies, may be seen
greatly exercised in her mind whether she should
go out or not. On the one hand, she does not care
about leaving the puppies ; on the other, she feels
that she really ought to go out, and not let the
sheep be knocked about by those learners.
Hesitatingly, with many a look behind her, she
trots out after the horses and the other dogs. An
impassioned appeal from the head boundary
rider, “Go on back home, will yer ! ” is treated
with the contempt it deserves. She goes out to
the yards, works, perhaps, half the day, and then
slips quietly under the fences and trots off home,
contented.
Besides the sheep-dog there are hunting, sport-
ing, and fighting dogs who all devote themselves
to their professons with a diligence that might
well be copied by human beings ; there is no
animal so thoroughly in earnest as a dog. But
this article is now long enough. Hunting, sport-
ing and fighting dogs must be dealt with at
another time; and, meanwhile, any readers who
can forward any striking instances of canine
sagacity should write same out in ink on one side
of the paper only, get them attested by a mis-
sionary, mark them “Dog Story,” and forward
them to this office, where they will, as a rule, be
carefully burnt.
“THE BANJO.”
“Sauce for the Gander!”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Charlie Haye was practically a big overgrown
boy, with a boy’s propensity for repenting pro-
foundly of his misdeeds, and —going back to them
immediately. In one of his spasms of remorse he
blurted out to his wife the whole story of his
affair with Mrs. Tildon, but, having rigid ideas of
honor, according to his lights, he so carefully con-
cealed the identity of the lady that Eva Haye
never suspected it. Therefore, having cried her-
self hideous, and refused food for three meals, she
put on a thick veil and repaired to Mrs. Tildon
herself for consolation and advice.
Agnes Tildon listened, swinging her chair
slowly backwards and forwards in the shady end
of her trellised verandah, and, if Eva Haye had
not been so deeply interested in the damp rag that
had once been a handkerchief, she might have
seen the cold glint in her friend’s eyes.
“I know he doesn’t love her —not as he loves
me,” Eva sobbed, “He says she only appeals to
his baser nature. He told me there are two kinds
of love—one of the senses and one of the soul—
and he loves me with the higher love. Do you
think it is so, Agnes ? ”
Mrs. Tildon gave a dry little cough.
“ I have often heard that before,” she said.
“But it is a shame,” Eva went on; “and he
ought to be punished—he ought ! —he ought I ”
She was crumpling the handkerchief now viciously.
“ And I wish I could do it —oh, I wish I could ! ”
“You can—if you like.” Mrs. Tildon’s voice
was cool and composed, but the glitter in her eyes
had become steely.
“ How?”
‘ ‘ By administering a little of his own physic.
Grive him a modified version of his story, and say
it’s your own. There isn’t anything a man detests
in us so much as rivalry in his own particular line.
Tell him that confidence begets confidence, and
that you feel you ought to confess to him. He’ll
have a bad time for a week—and then you can say
it’s all your own invention, and make it up again.”
Mrs. Tildon smiled as she rocked herself, and
sketched artistically an imaginary career for her
friend.
• * • •
A week later Charlie Haye poured out his woes
in the same end of the trellised verandah. “ And
now she tells me it wasn’t true,” he said. “ Tries
to make me believe that she only made it up to
punish me—as if she or any other woman could
make it up entirely. ”
Agnes smiled in the darkness.
“ Perhaps she made the worst of it up—just the
worst part,” she suggested, soothingly, and
Charlie assented eagerly.
“That’s what I think—it mustn’t have been so
bad—but there was some truth in it—and to think
of her —of all women ! I’d have staked my life on
her ! ”
Mrs. Tildon’s voice was hard.
“You mean you thought her better than
women like me—eh, Charlie ? ”
It was dark in the verandah, and the perfume
of the roses in the garden mingled with the scent
of the laces in Mrs. Tildon’s dress. Charlie’s arm
was round her lithe waist, and her lips were near
him in the darkness.
“ It’s hard to be disappointed, ” she whispered ;
“but there’s one thing, Charlie —it makes this
seem—not wrong—doesn’t it, dear?”
2. ad Charlie agreed.
NELLIE M. FIELD.


Used It 20 Years
When My System Was Run Down. When I Was Weak and Miserable.
When I Gould neither Eat nor Sleep.
S&s
Mr. F. W. .Dußieu, of Collingwood,
Victoria, sends us his photograph and
says:
“I certainly ought to know about Ayer’S
Sarsaparilla, for I have used it over 20
years. My faith in it is greater today than
ever. lam anxious to tell every one of its
blood-purifying power and its value as a
remarkable preventive of disease. I don’t
wait until I am down sick before taking it.
Just as soon as I feel weak, exhausted, or
lose my appetite, or don’t sleep well, I
take a few doses, and in a day or two am
all right. I tell my friends to keep it on
hand, for it’s ready then the very day they
want it. I know it has often prevented
me from being seriously ill, and I have
many acquaintances who tell the same
story.”
“The World’s Createst Family Medicine.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla has been sold for over half a century. It has been tried
and tested in every way. Nothing like using an old, reliable, and effective
medicine. Intelligent people do not like to experiment. It’s too dangerous.
Unknown and untried medicines often work more serious results than the
disease. When you need a Sarsaparilla, get “Ayer’s,” for it is the oldest,
strongest, and best Sarsaparilla you can buy.
Cling to the kind that has been tested for 60 years. For purifying the blood,
strengthening the digestion, and bracing up the whole nervous system, use
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
AYER’S § arsaparilla
Tested and Tried by Millions of People
Ayer’s Pills are liver pills. They cure constipation, biliousness
Prepared by SB. J. C. AYEB & CO., Lowell, Mass., TT. 8. A.
THE WORLD’S BEST.
C. L. HAUTHAWAY & SONS’
is an oil dressing which so softens the leather that
smaller sized shoes can be worn with perfect comfort.
“ Peerless Gloss ” is the great dressing triumph of the
world, as it imparts a brilliant and permanent polish to
ES’ and CHILDREN’
shoes that outrivals all other dressings, and yet it does not
contain anything injurious to the leather. Beware of
imitations. Demand Hauthaway’s “Peerless Gloss,” and
take no substitute. For sale nearly everywhere. Made
only by C. B. Hauthaway & Sons, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
The "Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA]
u
wm
m*
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
plays
French’s Acting Edition.
*
Rare Books
Freneh Novels
Books the Married
Extra Special Catalogue of
Eoolcs Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDBADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRA TEFUL COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
DON’T MISS THIS
OPPORTUNITY, if you are suffering with WEAKENING,
NERVOUS, and DEBILITATING Diseases. Our CON-
CENTRATED BOTANIC REMEDIES will CURE YOU.
So CONFIDENT are we of this that we will send to any
sufferer a TRJAi COURSE (Free of Charge) and abide
by the RESULT. Send NOW and your ultimate CURE
is CERTAIN. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
Worth'A CuineaA Box”
s
V
s>.
IP.
no
\2\
&
SAFE
STEPPING
‘S’©
MOT
T)
* A
/ i
BP s^'
I—l
er
R
—:£
&
•
sd ;\i
i^l;
.
v N^lP-
* %
'-M\»
.^•>V.v.
R«*X)«5 AHt SObD Awmiavwv
YOU EMJOY
YOUR LUNCH
George and Market Sts.,
SYDNEY.
APARTMENTS:
BEDROOM (single), 3s. per DAY.
BEDROOM (double), 6s. per DAY.
Single Room, with Full Board, Bs. per
day, or .£2 2s. per week.
TERMS. —The convenient
system of paying for the
room on arrival and
meals as they are had.
When you come to Roberts’ Hotel
Dining Rooms; and you not only
enjoy it, but it does you good as
well. There is always a large and
tempting variety of excellent food on
our menu, and on Fridays there is a
special fish luncheon for those who
want it in addition to the ordinary.
The luncheon is ready at twelve
o’clock sharp—from Is.—and there
is first-class attendance. Dinner and
tea from 5.30 to 7.3 o—from Is.
upwards. Silver grill at work.
I
II
■ Consults toy Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East.
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
IRISH MOSS
-The besr remedy -
- influenza,
rnn/rwA
[Ask for Bannington's
land seetkatyou qet it.
cot OS,
BRONCHITIS.
ASTHMA.


SYDNEY
Rubber Works
MANUFACTURERS OF
Sheet Eubber,
Washers,
Valves,
Gas Tubing,
Rubber Rings,
Rollers,
Buffers,
and Every Description of
Mechanical Rubber Goods.
Works:
CAREY STREET, off Birkenhead Road.
City Office:
PERDRIAU & CO.
270 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
WE SHIP ON APPROVAL
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles. Fully warranted.
Latest
Models 1
£2. 10 t0£5.5.0
tv! nl V!!,. T - vres ' steel or Wood Rims,
tree Wheels, Mud Guards and Brakes
CARRIAGE PAID
To any Port in Australasia,
TYRES, ACCESSORIES,
Sporting Goods and Sewing
Machines Half Usual Prices.
Write for Catalogue and Special Offer
Using 2*d. Stamp. Address Dept 340 U
Mead Cycle Co.
Chicago*
U.S.A.
§tn YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
*W_ C. ELDBIDGE & CO
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YOKI SYDNEY
(opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
{Sole Australasian Representatives)
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK.
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Wnrthingtim Pumps
For all Services kept in Stock.
Send, for Catalogue.
Large
Stocks
CARRIED BY
BENNIE,
TEARE,
& CO.
GENUINE
BALATA
BELTING
AT
Sydney,
Melbourne,
Perth,
Coolgardie,
a ■ ■
Solo Australian
Representatives
TANGYES
LIMITED.
Is now being used by hundreds of woolgrowers, amongst them some of the largest squatters in Australia.
IT WILL DO EVERYTHING THAT IS CLAIMED EOR IT.
It will stay on the sheep’s back as long: as required. It will NOT injure the wool. It will dissolve out under
the ordinary scouring process.
nufAlCtukeks and Sole Agents :
0., RELUME.
BLACK
PRICE IN MELBOURNE
(tn
-gallon Cases)
SYDNEY (E. Rich & Co., Ltd.)
BRISBANE (E. Rich 8t Co., Ltd.)
HOBART (Wm. Crosby & Co.)
Parke & Lacy Co. ltd
Write for Prices and Particulars of
mm
'tarn.
Knowles Steam Pumps
Best Value. Highest Efficiency.
A Large Stock of Pumps suitable for every
kind of service ready for immediate delivery.
60 Ciarence-st., Sydney, and
533 Collins-st., Melbourne.
UTaEIa
Sufferers from Deafness or Head Noises
desiring a complete and permanent cure
should write to The L. E. VERNON CO
S HUNTER ST., SYDNEY, for
phlet descibing an entirely new seif-
applied method which we will send post
free on mentioning this paper.
H. P. GREGORS S CO.
Machinery Merchants,
Melbourne & Sydney.
HAVE IN STOCK—
Blake’s Steam Pumps.
Fay’s Woodworking Machinery.
Mundy’s Hoisting Engines-
Empire Co.’s Laundry Machinery-
American “All Steel” Pulleys-
Harris ‘* Champion ” Lubricating Oils.
•Mason Eeducing Valves-
Ludlow Sluice Valves-
Korting’s Injectors and Ejectors-
Tanite Emery Wheels.
*
;
RARE
ROOKS
FRENCH,
ENGLISH,
GERMAN,
2/-
Largest Catalogue, with
Specimen Ph oto. Apply
Box 116 Paris.
RAND DRILL CO.,
NEW YORK.
Manufacturers of
AIR COMPRESSORS
of New and Improved Design.
LITTLE GIANT & SLUGGER ROCK DRILLS
Stocks kept by
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd.,
Sole Agents. 71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 101$. •^CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OP TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
?QU EES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
Of” —= = =
:
Vi >
MELBOURNE
J^OTICE
VISITORS.
GEORCE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
