

McEWAN’S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY. PIG STOUT.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
TES,. G. WATKUVS «S£ CSO-,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining* anti Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ AMD GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Oarer OTOftJEydro-Kxtraotorsßolfi and at work
GIBSON, BATTLE & O o '*w «ttstreet, SYDNEY.
HYDRO-EXTRACTORS
SOLE AGENTS* FOE BROADBENT’S ste» d »l re d O r Tv EN „ „ „
These machines have been successfully introduced throughout the Australasian colonies for Drying Wool, Laundried Goo s, ugar,
Salt, Chemicals, the Production .of Meat Extract, etc. All sizes in stock or arriving. SPARE PARTS STOCKED. bend toi
Testimonials and full particulars.
71CLARENCE ST.
ĥ
And at
48&C0LUN8 ST., MELBOURNE.
•mdllCH ST., FREMANTLE.
McDonald st., kalcoorlie.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
A Policy for the Commonwealth
Beingaweprint of a large number of articles from
Thb-Buhebtin, in which thisrpaper has attempted to
outline a solvent, honest and democratic policy
for Federated Australia.
THORNES
Estbd. 1831. WHISKY.
HELIDON SPA.
A PERFECT TABLE WATER.
TOOTH & GO- X«td., iLgexxts, Sydney.
.V#
★
ħ
C£ S ,
HOBART.
m*, —
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-si, South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 10hS. w^CATERE*.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OP TABLE FORNTSHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
i,Most
iasonable
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
Penfold’s Adelaide Wines
Nature’s Most Pleasing Restorative. Gold Medal Paris, against the World.
h
PIONEER
LEATHER
"BELTING
ĥ
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusivelyby theGovts; of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
PRICES PER FOOT OF SINGLE AND DOUBLE
BELTING :
2 2J 3 Si 4 5 6 8 10 12 inch.
~/7 -19 -/10J 1 1~ 1/2 1/6 1/11 2/8 3/4 4/-
172 1/4 1/7 1/10 2/2 2/11 3/5 4/5 5/7 6/9
Agents in every State.
Made by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG, X
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Eight Different Articles,
comprising Ali Baba’s.'Disappearing Jewel Casket (a good
tracts Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Coin
and-Card Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard
Fish (gives definition of your character), That Wonderful
Cinematograph or Book of Living Pictures, Mafeking
Cknb (er nerve-strengthener), That side-splitting Look
and Laugh Glass, and, last of all, The Spider and the Fly
(an ingenious mechanical toy). Instructions enclosed.
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
X
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
710 George-street, SYDNEY,
a. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
it**
tv*
Those
suffering
from weak
and sore eyes,
blight, should
ii"" m
SINGLETON'S OINTMENT
Never Fails. Restores Eyelashes.
ALL CHEMISTS.
£ \<? iLiui tuny J-trj {AMSIHM } s.SC ** J VC *VC #
33ya A3IHWB S.'d3IXVH
EMPIRE HOTEL, SYPNEY
JVC OST QIEi:KrT I IK,-A-X.,1/S~ SITUATED.
OTARD-DUPUY
Estbd. 1795. 25 Years BRANDY.
PROOF
O.NE'fjZt;
w
ħ
Joshua’s BOOMERANG BRANDY
AMONG THE MANY TESTIMONIALS RECEIVED FROM AUSTRALIAN HOSPITALS
IS THE FOLLOWING :
'■Our patients have greatly benefltted by the use of" Joshua Bros.’ Brandy.
It ts a very nourishing and Beneficial Stimulant. It gives me great pleasure
to recommend it.”
gSS" This is from the Resident Medical Officer of one of the leading Hospitals in Western Australia.
COLLINS’ PATENT PROSPECTING DISH
rias the following advantages
over the ordinary Tin Dish—
A flange projects round one halt and
prevents the loss of any metal-
fine or coarse.
No experience is required to use it.
A boy can pan off as easily as the
most skilful miner.
Doable the amount of work can be
done in a given time than with the
old dish.
Sold by all Storekeepers and Iron-
mongers throughout Australia.
(f you have any difficulty in procuring
the Collins’ Patent Dish in your
own district write to—
ft. JOHNSON CLAPHAM
and MORRIS, LTD.
78 Pitt St., Sydney, and
231 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
Manufacturers under license from the
Patentee.
h
ĥ
ħ
The Bulletin
Vd. 23.—N0. 1151.]
[Saturday, March 8, 1902.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE LATEST BOOKS at
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
The BtTMiETiN Reciter, ss, postage sd.
Doyle (Conan), The Great Boer War, New Edt., 2s 6d, p. 6d.
Sheehan, Luke Delmege, 2s 6d'& 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Little, Land of the Blue Gown, 16s, p. lOd.
Harmer, Burma (Story of the Empire Series), Is 6d, p. 4d.
Woods, Sanitary Engineer, 10s, p. Bd.
Caine, The Eternal City, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 7d.
Tun Bulletin Story Book, 4s 6d, postage 6d.
Croker, Angel, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Norris, The Embarrassing Orphan, 2s 6d & 3s Sd, p. 6d.
Quain, Dictionary of Medicine, 3rd Edt., 25s & 365, p. Is6d.
Mackinder, Britain and the British Seas, 7s 6d, p. 9d.
Sloane’s Electrical Dictionary, 3rd Edt., 9s, p. lOd.
Hiscox, Compressed Air, 30s, p. Is 6d.
71 CASTLEREAGH ST», SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) & at Melbourne. Adelaide. Brisbane & London
Option, a Hook of Uerses by H. 0. Stephens,
with thirty Illustrations by norman Eindsay, will be
published this month. Che edition will consist of 550
copies on toned paper, numbered, at js. od.; oo copies
on large paper, , numbered, at and u Authors’
copies, signed, of which to are for sale at £i is. each.
Subscribers’ names, with postal notes, may be sent to
H. 0. Stephens, Oeorge St. north P. 0., Sydney.
Copies will be forwarded post-free on publication.
For tixe LXJWG-S, tlie THKOA.X, tlae VOICE
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs ! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
□
A. The Larynx,.or organ of
voice.
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
C- The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
D. A, lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG,
and
Invaluable to
SIN G E R S
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered)
** Contain NO cocaine or other poisonous dnif/ . . •
cm n rv ALL CHEMISTS, in Tins, 1s 6d; from the Proprietor, G. HUDSON Chemist, Ipswich,
free on receipt of sUmps. Sydney Depot: 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE, and FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO,
Melbourne, Agents.
THE RED PAGE.
Love & Letters.
THE business of Life is to secure the
most intense sensations at the least
physical cost ; and the beauty of Love
is that it can provide the most intense
sensations at a physical profit. For the
normal man, in the fitting season —that is.
Dumas JUs advised the use of love from
twenty years till forty; and abstinence
before and after that epoch. This dogma
allows a quite sufficient margin for
the pursuit of Wisdom: it does not
pay to be wise before forty : much
better to fall in love. “Fall,” of
course, is a misnomer: the Fall of Love,
like the “ Fall of Man,” is really a rise—a
welcome offered to more complex, intenser
Life. Between twenty and forty every man
should have three grand passions at least.
It is well to begin with a brune, climax on
a red-headed girl, and taper off with a
lymphatic blonde. Women need not exercise
such a deliberate choice of Rossetti’s House
of Love : for them any house is a haven,
provided it be well-furnished.
Love-letters, despite the common employ-
ment of them which the quoted examples
attest, have really no place in the House of
Love : they are mere makeshifts and subter-
fuges. They divide themselves, like the
patent medicine illustrations, into “Before”
and “ After”—the man’s coming before and
the woman’s after. In both cases, their
office is to relieve a plethora—much to the
disgust of personified Nature. Personifica-
tions of Nature are to be deprecated ; but,
behind every, pair of fond lovers, whoso will
may see with an imaginative eye the eager,
intent figure of the universal Sairey Gamp,
waiting to plant the baby. And the poor,
deluded fools think that they exist for one
another ! Behind the figure of Nature, if
you are an orthodox religionist, you may see
the figure of the Angel who carries the Soul,
but (as we may imagine) wearily enough, a
slave of the routinier theologian. And if we
prattle on at this rate there will soon be no
space for Love Letters. To the work !
Begin with the Song of Innocence, adoring
in the vestibule of the Temple. Innocence
proses rather prettily (as we remember) —
i Selene,
I do nofknow where you are on the wide bosom
of earth to-night. Why should I wish to know ?
In flesh you may be worlds away; yet in spirit you
are always near. You never have spoken to me;
Ido not know you. Yet to see you was to love
you, and having seen you I love you. I love you
through bitterness and stress, driven onward
before my emotions helplessly as a bird before a
storm. I love you in the stillness of afternoon
when for hours I lie and dream, and I can do
nothing for thinking of you ; I would not move
lest the colored dome of my fancies might shiver
into fragments. I pass along the streets at night,
the dark blue of the sky above, and the coolness
of the night air around ; I think of you, and with
a sudden start the spring of sadness wells up
within me. It is love that brings the sweetness of
S3/dIIOSS.
Yet at all these times I can only think of you ;
but there is One short space when I see you and
my vision stays awhile. It is the hour of sunset
when I watch the blazoned West. . . . You come
to me, you float in at my window in the deepening
twilight, with the dusk in your hair and the moon
in your eyes and the passion of night in your
bosom, you, the moori-goddess, Selene. And as
the night pours out its liquid stillness, with de-
parting twilight I lose 'you, and am left in the
darkness with the memory of a dream. Still there
are times when the trees sway to the rushing air,
and in the tumult of the wind I feel the deepness
of my passion. Its tenderness is of the grace of
twilight, but the grand music of the night alone
can fathom its deepness. It fills me, it quivers in
me and stirs me to the core. And thus it is that
you hold my destiny, my future, between your soft
white hands. ... Do as you will, Selene.
G.C.W.
Here is the amusing male in Platonics—
My Life, my Sunshine, —I am going to try to
make this a “bright letter, because you say it
makes you sad to receive despondent ones. I
have just spent a sweet half-hour reading over all
your letters to me. And such a strain of love runs
through them, that I see your dear, piquant face
in them, and I feel your dear hand in mine.
... Oh ! my dear one, do you realise what
a poor creature you would link yourself to ? You
are so bright, too much the offspring of Nature’s
I merriest mood to ever be satisfied linked to a poor
miserable writer’s wretched life-way.
Oh ! , how well I know how passionately
i love you. I devour every letter you send to me
to see if there is a word less fond, and, if I fancy
it is so, my heart aches. You called me in your
last letter “ My dear Boy ” ; how sweet it looked.
lam not living now. When I know that nothing
I can take you from me, a new life will commence.
I love you so, my darling, and it is such a wonder
how you could ever love me (when all men love
you). You are so above me. An ancient Greek
said, “Know thyself.” A modern Frenchman
said “ Know that thou lovest.” When I first met
you your mind fascinated me. I had never met a
woman who spoke as you did : when we chatted
together, thoughts flew from your eyes like sparks
from an anvil. In one week, from adoration of the
mind it turned to adoration of the heart. May I
speak plainly. I have never felt towards you that
purely physical emotion, which so many mistake
for love, which is so transient and which dies so
easily. I worship you mentally, and from my
heart, and therefore I know that will be with me
all my life. I know you are the only one the
world holds for me, who will feel my thoughts,
Iderstand and participate in my ambitions,
id when I think of you, and of having you with
3 through all the years of my life—blessed years !
to come, my heart thrills (not my body) and my
ain pulsates, and I know that is “Love.” And
loving you, my own Chia—Good night. . . .
AIUXTON.
Then, of course, she left him : wliat true
oman was ever content with Platonics ?
pace for some cries of Passion ! —sliding
om psychical to unprintable physical (and
sver forget that psychical is physical trans-
uted) —
o my dead lover.
My beloved, —It is a year since you left me, and
y heart aches with loneliness. When I knew
m were ill I could not think that death was
sar. You, who were so strong, who had fought
) rough so many dangers, surely must conquer,
our sister took me to your bedside. You did
it know I was there, for delirium held you fast;
ut when I laid my hand on your brow—oh, how
hot it was!—your wild raving ceased and you
looked up with a world of love in your eyes. I
longed tp kiss you, and had I known you were to
die, I would have kissed the fever from your lips
and died with you.
That was our farewell. I heard with a dull un-
belief that you had died suddenly. I saw your
coffin carried out, then fell back into your weeping
sister’s arms. Was your spirit near me then?
Do you know how I have mourned you all through
this long, dark year? You come to me in my
sleep and give me the kiss I long for, and I wish
that I may never wake, so that you may kiss me
always.
WIDOWED BRIDE.
lam not going to marry him. I see now that I
can’t—there is you.
He loved me, and took me in his arms, and
kissed me, but' it was nothing, it passed me by.
llt is as if it never had been, because there is you.
I never felt until he came last night, then my
heart seemed to wake and scream out, “Why,
but there is my love, how can I ever belong to
you Y” I had been letting my life slip by as it
would, not seeing that it was an insult to you, but
now the whole dead world else swooned away in
the darkness of that night, and left you and me
alone. Again your dear dark eyes enfolded me,
devoured me. I heard your voice—the voice with
which a man makes a woman his own—calling me
as you called me that night of our Renunciation,
when we accepted the wisdom of the fool which
has ruled through all time.
But I’m really yours, yours, yours, and every-
thing else that we have said or lived has been a
lie. It is too horrible to be true. Is it possible
that all the ages of man could have evolved us for
that? And all the time we should have to live
and never come together !
We are so young, and we only have this life.
God and man have conspired to cheat you. The
one allowed you to exist glorious as you are, and
made you me, only that the other might hold you
from me with chains of poverty and false morality.
But my love, my love, if you want me I will
come. See, I stretch out my hands to you, my
lips are trembling for your kisses.
I am not brave, your spirit has compelled me.
But now I feel I could faint with fear. You are
cruel as well as tender. Ido not complain, dear,
I know that love is different for a man. But I
I have thrown myself on your mercy. andys.
From Clara to Jack, who is in Melbourne.
My dear love,—l received your letters on Satur-
day. ... I am going to Sydney this week. I
cannot stay here any longer. lam tired of it. I
thought I could work better alone, but I find I
cannot. It seems so hard to have no one to love.
You speak about some woman you saw in Collins-
street. I think, if you loved a woman, Jack, I
would kill her, or kill myself—perhaps it would be
best. You know how jealous I am. I cannot
help it, and when you speak of women it nearly
drives me mad. I think when we meet it will
surely kill me, if not before. Oh, Jack, Ido want
you so badly; worse than you want me. lam
simply dying for you. They are always talking
about you up here. They tell me lam not fit for
anything the day I receive a letter from you, and
lam sure lam not, dear. What do you say about
my coining for a week. I can hear you speak to
me at night-time. I lie awake, thinking of you
for hours, at night-time. I am always thinking
of you, Jack. It seems so long to wait. Do you
think we shall meet again, Jack ? I know you
will think me silly, but I cannot help it —I feel
taking something to-day. I have such hard
work to stop myself. It is the thoughts of you
that prevents me doing it.
Ever your heart-broken
Clara.
Dear Jack, I cannot wait any longer.
From Jack to Clara, in Sydney.
My dear and only love, —I feel so lonely without
you, and my mind is so full of you, that I must
again write; but as you are probably tired . . .
you need not answer this until you get my next
letter. I think of you all the time, my sweet-
heart. Yesterdaly I looked at your letter again,
and I was so affected that I dare not do so any
more ; it is so touching, so living, and so genuine.
I do most sincerely love you, my sweet, my
precious, my beautiful goddess. I adore you.
You called me your god in one of your letters, and
I reply that you are my goddess, my Venus; so
we have both become religious. No one can now
accuse me of being an Atheist,
I think that our separation is an outrage on
Nature, my gay little cannibal. Will you call me
a nasty thing ” when you read this ?
... I do not think that suicide is mad or
cowardly. It is often the act of a brave or
philosophical man. Forgive me for talking like
this, my love, but I am very greatly depressed.
There is' a lump in my throat, and I long, in-
tensely long, for your kisses and loving caresses.
Do not forget me, my loved one, and tell me how
you pass your leisure time. ... It is very cold
at night here. ... I talk to you at night some-
times, Clara, my love. Do you ever hear me ?
although five hundred miles separate us? Oh,
Clara, the circumstances which part us are cruel,
most shamefully cruel. My darling, my darling,
I love you ! I love you !
I kiss you . . . my sweet one, I can see your
beautiful kind face illuminated with tender lan-
guishing love, and I can hear your sweet voice
thrilling with emotion.
My dear, sweet darling love, it is now twelve
(midnight). I cannot sleep because of the thought
of the happiness I shall have when we again meet.
... I will kiss you and caress you. ... Then
we shall care nothing for the cruelty and malice
of others.
With heartfelt affection,
Your devoted lover,
Jack.
Here is “a letter written to an Australian
girl on a visit to Italy by an Italian profes-
sor of music, who was informed by girl’s
father, for reasons of his own, that his
daughter was already affianced in Aus-
tralia ”
Gevio, 11 September , hours 16 — 1896.
Adored my [say] Nita, —Whilst thou joyous
and in cheerful company go at Menzouis, I melan-
choly and lonely thee write this little words.
After two days of indescribable happiness why
thee wos olways near here are me to-day cast in
the more profound sorrow. Thou last night made
known to thy father my love towards thee and he
this morning to me said that thou art already
promised spouse in Australia. Easily canst thou
to imagine what cruel blow was it to my heart
which already very much this notice. Is properly
truth, Nita ? But, therefore, thou wast not sincere
with me. Why to my repeated demands always
saidst that wast free and that didst not love some-
body? Why till by the first turn thatmy fingercairie
near to tpe thy, that thee did the first declaration
of love thou to me not saidst, “ Professor, in vain
love me, I am already promised to a other ? Then
I should have set out immediately from Cevio for
to suffocate till by the principle of my passion.
But at present is impossible. The destiny was
willing that we might meet. I thee saw pretty
and gentle from thy fascinating look knew the
goodness of thy soul and became enamoured fool-
ishly of thee, and at present thee I love as nobody
has love ever ! I thee love of a love which the
word human can not to express. And thou wilt
be spouse of a other ! For my heart is frightful
and horrible this thought—to me deprive the life.
I weep, yes, Nita, weep. How much I suffer !
Should be willing yet to thee to say somebody
things (and shall be the lasts), but I wait before a
thy answer. Concede, adored Nita, that my
ardent kiss may depose on thy splendid eyes and
that my tears may moisten thy heart. Have thou
pity of me, Nita, which knelt hard by thy foot
thee adore. Thee kiss thy very much unhappy
G-oisefpe. ...
And here a schoolmaster’s letter, consider-
ing things too curiously—and, O horror !
advising. “All advice has an of
blame,’’and should be most carefully avoided,
says the wise Balzac. Besides, what need
of advice to Woman the imitative?—and
after Meredith has written The Egoist—
Procrustes in love. However, he seems to
have made amends—Le Medecin Malgr6
Lui—
Dearest, —You are grieved. I feared you would
be, yet how could I —we —help it ? I felt what
your letter would say before I opened it. How
can I comfort you ? By first telling you of my joy
—see how utterly I know you—if only you could
realise it, how perfect your happiness would be !
I did not go home last night after you left me,
but walked miles round to all our old places—the
hill where your hair came down (our first ride
together)—the waterhole where the old tramp
“ G-od-blest ” us—the maiden-hair creek where we
sat so long, and you told me I ought to lace my
boots right up to the top (I liked that—it seemed
an assertion of ownership)—the sweet-briar bushes
—you remember ? and back again to our gates of
Paradise, where I lay with you still in my
heart till the dawn, when I found a few
petals of the rose you wore—they were
so sweet. It is wonderful. A strange exhilara-
tion keeps passing in waves through me—
dear old mother asked me at breakfast what I was
smiling at. ’lhCn your letter came. Darling,
seriously, what a delightful little bundle of im-
pulse you are! You felt in your beautiful inno-
cent way the great reaction that follows all great
emotion, and instantly expressed it in eight "pages.
Thank you for the tenderness that makes bad
logic lovely. You wrote, because you had to; I
walked for the same reason—you feel better al-
ready ? But remember, you have sworn fealty to
the, King of Love when he rests as well as
when he rules—yet you allowed those impish
little thoughts of priest-law and social
tyranny to scamper over him during what
'should have been his sweetest sleep ! But just
wait till he wakes ! Come, let us wake him —
Darling—Flower—you feel me murmuring in your
heart—stealing your honey. I hold your hand in
mine—now. Again I press the ring down your
finger till it hurts—you flinch under the glad pain
—your lips are mine. Why, the King was never
asleep at all! It was you who dreamed the imps
were teasing him—you wake to find it is he who
guards you—now, and for ever.
Darling, you do not misunderstand my happi-
ness that overflows ? I know how keenly you felt
all you wrote, but I want you to see the vanishing
littleness of everything beside ourselves—our final
triumph—our perfect freedom—“We are made
with one nature ” —the petty imp-world has passed
in the fire of our love, and in its place shines a
star, whose hemispheres are you and me—and
what do we care for the man in the moon ! Dar-
ling, does not this bubbling love and nonsense
answer your dear foolish doubts about my future ?
Leave all other troubles in my heart—notin yours
—till we meet to-night—for you will come. I
think of your eyes and the words will sing !
Fringed violets dance
In the glamour of Spring ;
Where dew-drops glance
Fringed violets dance
At Love’s advance ;
All glistenihg,
Fringed violets dance
In the glamour of spring.
N.B.—Come as soon as it is dark, as the moon
rises at eleven—hang the man in the moon !
Yours, •
And still there are all the others —all
the others received from W.H. ; Owllight —
Will I never again embrace this sweet girl?
Will I never again kiss the only lips in this world
which I can extract the sweeteou of sweets from —
something grand and blissful, which would make
life ... etc. —
F.H. ; H.P. ; Hare ; J.H.
Dicky, wire to me at once and come, for I can
wait no longer . . . etc.—
Madeline ; W.W. : Jessamy Bride ; Papil-
lon ; C.H.R. ; J.W.—
Oh, my faults are a thousand ; but you should
be blind to them all. . . . etc.
D.H.R. ; A.G.A. ; Man—
We are betrothed. A rich flush of golden light
has shafted to tny soul, and I know the fullness of
a woman’s love. . . . etc.
Claudia ; Lucia—
To-night the upheaval of my very soul has
come. . . . etc.
Nanuma ; Enots ; P.L. ; Jack —
The world is full—you, dear God, her, and
I. . . . etc.
(But why drag in “ dear God ”T) G.H.G. ;
David C.; M.T.D.; Talune ; Prodigal Child ;
Philip; Dante; Pauline; C.D. ; Glenara ;
Q.H. —
I know you never really loved me. Even in
our bridal days it was ray beautiful body you
loved—not me . . . etc. —
Q.D. ; Paula ; Signora ; M.G. ; P.B.—
. . . Sometimes I feel as if 1 were all alone on
Earth, surrounded by an ever-darkening gloom,
and a terrifying feeling of emptiness overcomes
me. Then a merciful God allows tears to flow
from my eyes and I am soothed. . . . etc.—
N.S.—
Darling, you did not come to see me when I
wrote to tell you of what has happened. I know
that in your position you must be careful of scan-
dal, and I did not expect you to come yet awhile,
and I know you dislike letter-writing, but, dear
love, if you would only write me just one little
letter, if it is only a few lines ! I agreed with you
one time that a marriage between us two would
be foolish, and that marriage in a general way was
a mistake. What has happened has not altered
this, but sometimes since the poor baby has come
1 wish we could have been married. 1 don’t mean
to complain, dear ; I know it has all been my own
fault, but I loved you so dearly ! I knew people
would look down on me and the baby, and I
thought I would not mind it, but I suppose I
must still be weak and nervous, for I, feel some-
times that I cannot bear the things they say and
the way they look at us. If I could only feel that
you did not despise me I don’t think I would mind
so much. The boy is a fine fellow, and is so much
like you that I wonder people need to put the
question to me as to who his father is.. . . etc. —
E. ; First Time ; A.C.H.—
There was a wild hope in my breast that when I
told you of my going you would take me in your
arm 3 and say the words I would give my soul to
hear. So I told you. You did not speak for
some minutes ; then you said, I ’ll miss you so
much.” That was all. God ! I almost laughed—
then I caught my breath while the world reeled
and a hot mist swam before me . . . etc.
8.8., Echo, E.R., Jill, E.W.—
My Gear One,—ln thy presence I can be
eloquent, though silent; but parted, my halting
words can not interpret my ardent thoughts—this
cold, mechanical action is too slow, too forma l . .
etc.
Rivulet —
Calmly and coldly we could discuss Goethe’s
“ Elective affinity” as a universal sympathy that
pulsated throughout all things to infinity. To
you, Heine’s “Love of the Pine and the Palm ”
was sublime in contrast to the wailings of the
woman who repined : “ George used to fetch me
violets once, now he fetches me beef steak, but no
violets,”.. . . etc. —
Heinrich—
. . . Last night I was dreaming of you, dearest.
We were in Centennial Park, sitting on “our
bank ” near the pond where the ducks are. You
are throwing biscuits to them. The old drake
with the beautiful long wings got most • • • etc.
Y.F.E. ; Florrie ; O. ; P.C.C. ; D,W. ;
F. ; J.B.—
O, lover of mine, why is a man’s love always so
earthy ?
H.E.—
God knows I do not want you. to feel as lonely
as I, and yet I cannot play the hypocrite and hope
you are happy, I want to feel that I am missed
as much as you, and that your days are just as
leaden as mine.


SKINS
Kangaroo,
Wallaby,
Rabbit,
Opossum.
Send to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
SYniVEY.
utmost possible prices.
Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.
Wool and Produce Brokers.
Consolidated Charge \
for Selling Wool J
Per Cent
/Includes all Charges excepting
\cartage from steamer’s wharf.
Fat Stock Salesmen, Stock & Station Agents.
SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd,
Circular Quay, Sydney.
NEITHER CRACK
d> *
S>»
s 806
*8
CBB
6807
■5BOB
NOR BURN.
SHILLING BRIAR PIPES
QUALITY NOT BETTER
IN A GUINEA PIPE. . .
GUARANTEE.—ShouId any of our Celebrated CAN’T-B-BEAT Briar Pipes Crack or Burn a
New One will be Exchanged for it immediately on Application.
Sold by all Tobacconists. By Post, Is. 2d.
Mick Simmons, haymarket, Sydney.
The Go-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: It PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY, Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Charge : 3 Per Cent, to the Orowera.
We are the Only SeUing Brokers who do not Charge \d. per lb. to the Buyers.
HAVE THE
BEST.
h
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE FENCE
Is built by a light, handy machine, easily operated, which will weave
THREE CHAINS OF FENCE AN HOUR.
The Lateral Wires are two-ply cable of best Gal. Steel Wire intersected by Crimped Steel Pickets
securely interwoven at any desired distance apart, forming a perfect Web Fence which will hold
securely all kinds of Stock.
FOR CATALOGUES AND PARTICULARS
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE PENCE
128 Franklin St., Melbourne ; 143 Sussex St. f Sydney.
CO.
nmUGALL’S SHEEP DIP
THE ORIGINAL NON-POISONOUS DIP.
M‘DOUG-A.LX. BROS., 3 Spring Street, Sydney.
AGENTS:
N.Z. L. & M.A. Co., Ltd., Australia and New Zealand : Strachan, Cheedle & Co., Adelaide ; J. B. Curran, Hobart.
Undeniable Figures prove that our PERFECT and UP-TO-DATE
system of handling Wool meets with full appreciation from WOOIgrOWGTS.
GOLDSBROUCH, MORI & CO. Ltd.
———— SYDKTEY. 1 —
During the Season 1901-2 we offered at auction 611606 bales, and sold
at auction and privately ex Catalogue 54»245 bales, thus firmly
establishing ourselves as the LEADING Wool Selling Brokers of Sydney on
account of COUNTRY CONSIGNORS.
We invite inspection of our popular TRUST A/c System and of the figures given above.
N.B.—Our Figures do NOT Include private Sales of Uncatalogued Wool. George Maiden, Manager.
BALSAM OF HOREHOUND.
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
For Coughs and Colds.
Every Dose Effective.
Will Cure when Others Fail.
For Pain in the Side.
Best for Influenza.
In Bronchitis and Loss of Voice.
Whooping Cough and Croup.
For Children, Safe and Sure
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’S €njbrocatioi)
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints k. MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’S Cn)brocatioQ.
For more than Twenty Years
HAS
WARNER’S SAFE CURE
nF.IvrnNSTR.ATED ITS WONDERFUL POWER TO CURE ALL
DISEASES of the KIDNEYS
and LIVER.
The Principal Diseases arising from a deranged Condition of the Kidneys and Liver are
Gout
Neuralgia
Lumbago
Rheumatism
Backache
Sciatica
Blood Disorders
Bright’s Disease
Indigestion
Dyspepsia
Biliousness
Sick Headache
Anaemia
Gravel
Bladder Troubles
General Debility
WARNER 9 S SAFE CURE speedily and permanently cures all these. It attacks the root of the
disease by making the Kidneys and Liver healthy . When the Kidneys and Liver are working properly the
poisonous acids and other waste products of the body are removed naturally , and all the above disorders are
consequently cured.


TATTERS ALL’S.
Address: Care GEO. ADAMS, Holaart,
BALLARAT O. March 20.
50,000 Subscribers at 5*
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
Name —-
DONCASTER H. March 29.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL. . s
Please allot me shares in above.
Name ,
Address
SYDNEY 0. March 31.
50,000 > Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me _ shares in above
Name .
Address
City Tattersall’s H. April 12.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
Name
Address
ADELAIDE 0. May 7.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
Name.
Address.
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.
Address T^lttorsellV , caro Cfroo. AdamSi Hobart.


Great Tax
that is levied upon your
constitution by Indigestion
I demands relief in a remedy like
SEIGELS
Syrup
i Mr. F. Voltz, Mary Street, Duhellen
I Estate,- Brisbane, Queensland, in a
I letter dated September Bth, 1900, says:
\ “My three years of weakness,
wretchedness, and misery from In- .
digestion were completely cured /
by three bottles of Seigel’s
Syrup.” If you are ill you will
v find that Seigel’s Syrup is a
ON YOUR
.INCOME
ĥ
Why not look
young ? There’s
genuine pleas-
ure in holding
back Father
Time fif-
teen or
twenty
years. You
can do it
easily with
Ayer’s Hair
Vigor, for it
gives all that dark
and rich look to the
hair which belongs to
young life.
Ayers
Hair Vigor
You knew the story how good
Queen Bess, pointing to the beautiful
hair of a peasant girl, said, “There’s a
real royal crown. I would trade my
golden one for it.” That was long ago.
Now you can have a “realroyal crown”
of your own, simply by using Ayer’s
Hair Vigor. It makes the hair grow
thick and long and stops it falling out.
When your hair is rich and heavy,
and when the closest inspection fails to
detect a single gray hair, you will cer-
tainly look a great deal younger, and
you will be much better satisfied with
yourself, too. Isn’t that so ?
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell. Mass., it. S. A.
R
rLUID
I
I
'lndigestion*
Biliousness
y Infants
AND Invalids.
“SANITAS”
NATURE'S
GREAT DISINFECTANT.
Mon-Poisonous*
Does Mot Stain Linen*
FLUID, POWDER, SOAPS, &C.
Of all Chemists and Stores.
Valuable book, “HOW TO DISINFECT,”
free on application.
The “SANITAS" Co., Ltd.,
BETHNAL GREEN, LONDON.
Castro’s Last Sacrament
By ALBERT DORRINGTON. 4s 6d.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. Ib dm os away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Ib. bottles. Made in London.*
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold o#
Leasehold City or Suburbs*
or on
Freehold and C.P. (combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per cent.
of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine. n , ~
J RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
ħ
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 109 r
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
KW Send for a
Catalogue.
h
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Beet and Cheapest.
H. HIIiIiXER, 130'Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
PLAYER’S
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
WORLD
FAMED
' - U{i
& $ klk HiliitHiiiiiiiiiliiM @
iii
WHOLESALE
Distributing: Agents
New South Wales —.
M. RUTTY & GO.,
SYDNEY.
Victoria —
J. Ip. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia —
Hart, Lawrence & Co.
Propy. Ld., Adelaide
Western Australia —
Lionel Samson & Son,
Fremantle
Queensland —
Thoi. Brown & Sons, Ld.
Brisbane
Burns, Philp & Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania —
Watohorn Bros.,
Hobart
John McKenzie & Co.,
Launceston
New Zealand—
D. Benjamin & Co.
Dunedin, Wellington
and Christchuroh.
ĥ
£9 103.
Tel., 2710 Redfern
This Special No. 3 Sulky
with Wing Boards well
adapted for country roads
and hard usage. Will give
univeral satisfaction.
Pittman’s Commonwealth
Steam Coach Works
176 and 178 Morehead St., lied fern.
THE THREE CAUSES:
BECAUSE Pittman’s Vehicles are articles of real worth
and true merit.
BECAUSE they are always in ready demand.
BECAUSE when their superior qualities have once been
demonstrated, you will have no other
than Pittman’s Vehicles.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue and Price List
Full Description & Prices of Vehicles free on application
THE
‘PLUM’
ħ
THE
‘PLUM’
/"I ENTLEMEN.—This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
vT like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. od.
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Price
/ Single Razor, in strong: Leather Case, 10s 6d; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 219.
t Single Razot, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful oase, 309.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEIM, 680 George-st., Sydney.
MARTELLS
“A genuine
old Brandy
made from
Wine.”
Medical Press.
THREE STAR
“Particularly suitable
for Medicinal
Purposes.”
Tim Lancet.
BRANDY.
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company
When In town, pay ug a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies' Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
toOrder. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.— Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and yea pay 15 pe(
cent mors tor your requirements.
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Rodfarn, SYONIir
OUR SPECIAL No. 8
£8 18/6
h
Dellrered at any Wharf or-
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Squatteroo.
A long-legged, lanky man was he, with grizzly
beard and grey,
A stranger at the shanty—for he came from far
away;
And we noticed that his harness was the product
of the ’roo,
And his boots and—strike me fat!
There was hair upon his hat!
And he said : “Oi am a grazin’ man —the only
Squattheroo ! ”
So we took him into “ Mother’s,” and we wet him
at the bar,
And he spoke about his cattle—how he branded
them with tar,
And mustered by the thousand out upon the lone
Paroo.
They were not the common kine,
Neither were they grunting swine—
“ Faith ! They only go on two legs yit,” observed
the Squatteroo.
He said he’d learnt how garden-stuff was once the
rankest weeds,
How men evolved from puny stock the very best
of breeds;
And then he crossed the Darling to domesticate
the ’roo.
He would choose his paramours,
Make him locomote on fours —
Then he’d be a source of profit to the only Squat-
teroo !
He would make of him a packer, he would teach
him not to hop,
And when he had induced the brute his former
end to drop,
He would send the horizontal fact some day to
Sydney Zoo.
“ Oi am shure compulsive use
Of the forelegs will produce
What ye’d call an abnormality,” averred the
Squatteroo.
“ There’s no dacent occupation for a baste thot
stands on ind !
But, he’ll be a perfect jewel whin his little paws
descind I
And he’ll thrott around theshanty loikeO’Doolan’s
pig—Hooroo!
He’ll be yoked in pairs like oxen,
He’ll forgit his thricks o’ boxin’,
An’ we’ll thrain him for the races,” said the back-
block Squatteroo.
Then he swung into his saddle, said he must be
making tracks;
No, he didn’t want no stockmen, he employed a
hundred blacks,
Who were out a-branding joeys now upon the lone
Paroo.
By-and-by we’d see them riding
On ’roo-back to Cobar siding,
A-driving kangaroos for him —that long-legged
Squatteroo!
N.S.W.
EDWARD S. SORENSON.
The Cockies’ Men.
There’s a life that no one covets,
And where luxuries are few,
And the men that learn to love its
Sordid ways go silly, too:
Where kindness isn’t flowing
And they’ve hearts as hard as stone,
And you’ve got to take what’s going,
For the unions aren’t known.
Where you do odd jobs and potter
Round o’ nights till after ten,
Then to doss you plod (or totter) —
That’s the life of cockies’ men.
Then they put you on a-ploughing
When the weather’s wet and cold—
Fifteen bob a week, “ allowing
You keep going,” so you’re told.
And you go from kookaburra —
Keep the horses moving, too—
Till in gloomy night the furrow
Is a-fading from your view.
Stable horses, curse and feed ’em,
Also currycomb ’em ; then
Be at hand at night to heed ’em—
That’s the lot of cockies’ men.
Then you tramp at harvest stooking
Where the sheaves are very few,
(And the blessed cocky’s looking
For the most that you can do);
Till you hear the knock-off coo-ee
Floatin’ down the smoky gray,
And you’re tired as humping “ bluey ”
Over forty miles a day ;
And the cook’s got something sodden
Waiting on the table then,
Something shapeless, damp, down-trodden,
For the tea of cockies’ men.
You can hear the cocky cursing
At the cattle in the hay,
Or the pigs he is dispersin’
Long before the break of day,
And you turn again preparing
For another wink or two —
But someone’s tilrkey-scaring (
And it’s “ gobble gobble ” —“ Shoo !”
And the boss commences drumming
On the kerosene-tin then—
“ Oh, condemn yer soul, I’m coming !”
And they rise—these cockies’ men.
V.
BEN SUN.


MONKEY
BRAND
SOAP
Makes Tin like Silver;
Copper like Gold;
Brass like Mirrors;
Windows like Crystal;
Crockery like Marble.
Cleanses and polishes at one and the same lime.
Does not polish the dirt in, polishes the dirt out.
Cleans and Brightens everything, but
Won't Wash Clothes ,
5/- WILL BUY^
<Forwarded Post Free)
h
Gold Pin, Chain and Bell
.A. Cold Faith, Hope and Charity Charm
.A. Cold Collar or Front Btud
/x. Cold Miniature Photo. Frame ..
Cold Pin, Chain and Heart
Pair Silver-Mounted Matoh Stands ..
_A_ Pair Silver-Mounted Flower Tubes ..
_A_ Silver Button-Hook and Shoe-Lift ..
10 ID 10 in 1010 10 IQ
A Silver-Mounted Lady’s Purse .
A Sliver-Mounted Scent Bottle .
/x. Silver Pen-Handle or Pencil .
A Sliver Hall-Marked Matoh Box
A Silver Hall-Marked Pin Tray .
-A. Silver-Plated Jam Spoon
_A_ Silver-Plated Butter Knife
A Silver-Plated Serviette Rlngr .
ART JEWELZERS AND OPTICIANS,^
90 KING STREET, SYDNEY
On Our Selection.” By “ Steele Rudd.”
ĥ
Tails
lait s.
ħ
FRINGES, Best Natural Ourly Hair, 3/8, 5/6,
7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each. TAILS and PLAITS,
20in. long, 6/6, ; Extra Thick, 7/6; 24in.,
10/6; Extra Thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings Worked Up, 2/6 per oz.
Don’t be misled. Our Plaits and Tails are
twice as thick as sold elsewhere at same
price. Send Color of Hair. “ Only ONE
Address'" : W. H. WIG ZELL,
110 WILLIAMS!'., Comer of Palmer-st.,
Sydney. Cable trams will stop at door. All
guaranteed. Illustrated catalogue
postures. Prompt attention given to coun-
try orders. Wigs-made on tihortest notice.
RHEUMALGIA
phe new cure for Rhemnatism, Lumbago, Gout, Sciatica,
1 Neuralgia, and similar ailments
IS
a lotion compounded from herbs
PURELY AUSTRALIAN.
3S. 64. POST -FEES.
Rheumalgla Remedy Co., Bathurst,
Wholesale depot for S.S.W. and Q.
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
RRANDY
A
Federal
Spirit
that
will
build
up
a
splendid
Constitution.
THE
OLD BATTLE AXE BRAND.
h
ĥ
A.
i
~...
vm
-y ■ • •
i
ijt ■v#, %
»
mm/*
- *
'■*ss
A I
v ; 1:: 7
hmi
lias
1 i ’
I j
mm
■m
mz-i m
' y
% m i
■jt&tp- <g *w
•
THE WRONG WAY.
Ruberoid Building used as a Miner’s Hut.
',**'l *
Some folks have been known to lay P & B Ruberoid over bare rafters without
boards, battens, netting, or ventilation,. Don’t do, it!
State Agents
Wellington, N 2,
Brisbane, Q.
Adelaide, S.A. ..
Melbourne, Vic...
.Frkemantle, W.A.
Mr. James W, Jack.
Messrs. E. Rich & ('o., Ltd.
ii A. H . Satidford & Co.
» Brooks, Robinson & Co., Ltd.
„ JM. Ferguson, Ltd.
For further Particulars, Samples and Prices, write for
\ CATALOGUE
B
E. RICH & CO., Ltd.
Sydney.
Brisbane.
Ruberoid Building at Agricultural Show.
Unlike ordinary roofings P & B Ruberoid Roofing is absolutely airtight,
consequently it requires special ventilation. If you should raise the eaves
of a Ruberoid roof higher than the ridges, it would still be watertight, no
matter how heavy the rainfall; not so with other roofs, which would leak
like a sieve. It is through these holes in ordinary roofs that a great deal
of ventilation comes, which is not possible with roofs of P & B Ruberoid.
We, therefore, strongly recommend special provision for ample ventilation
at the ridges as illustrated.
THE RIGHT WAY.
m
X
11


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Poet OUee, Sydney, for T-iasmisvon as a Newspaper.
Vol. No. U") 1.
SATURDAY, MATCOH 8. 1009,
Prick Id.
THE SKELETON AT THE FEAST.
At the picnic in commemoration of “South Africa Day”—while G. H. Reid was speaking—(A Voice: “We don't want lunch, we want our back pay.")


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Maoleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Svdnet
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBER'S
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
IVestralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
€l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of\\d. postage, the subscription
to Tub Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maoleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the . contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Neivspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To A mateurs in Made and White.
Anyone supplying to Tub Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street & Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. — L. E. Lee, Palace Hotel.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Capetown. Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
SATURDAY, MARCH 8, 1902.
The Menace of Militarism.
General Hutton has lust very little time in
announcing the ends towards which his
administration of the military affairs of Aus-
tralia is to be directed. There are to be,
says the Commandant, two forces, one ex-
clusively for home defence ; the other,
chiefly of mounted men, to be raised with a
view to service in any part of the world.
This scheme, it is announced, has the cordial
approval of Premier Barton ! The meaning
of it is that Australian citizens are to be
systematically trained for service abroad
“to extend the Empire,” or to protect it
from attack ; that we are to raise an
army liable to be used against Hindustan
border tribes, against Irish agrarians,
or discontented Canadians, as well as
against Boers in South Africa ; or, under
Japanese control, against some European
Power in Asia. The idea involves an abso-
lute departure from all past traditions of
Australian politics ; sets up for the first time
a standing army to be used, not for
purposes of defence but for aggression, not
in our own cause but in the cause of others,
and perhaps under conditions absolutely
repugnant to our sentiments. Mr. Barton
is not so fat-witted that he cannot see the
logical consequences of the Commandant’s
proposals, and of the official approval given
to them by him. And Australians cannot/
plead in the future—without the gravest?*
reflection on their mental capacity—that
they endorsed Mr. Barton’s approval of
General Hutton’s plan because they did not
know with what it was loaded.
* * ’ • *
It is not to the blame of General Hutton
that he should suggest that Australians be
reduced to the grade of Sepoys and forced
to provide servile soldiers for England’s use.
is an English officer; English in ideas, in
training, in ambition, and naturally regarding
Australian interests as absolutely subordi-
nate to those of England. There i good
fighting material here. England, engaged in
the work of Empire-making without having
among her now mostly city population (her
“little street-bred people”) sufficient of the
kind of material that is required in that
work, needs servile soldiers—servile white
soldiers more particularly. Her ambition
is just now that of the Chamberlain
type of man—to stay at home and keep
shop whilst somebody else extends
trade abroad with a gun. General Hutton,
as an Englishman, with the prospects of an
English peerage, and the conviction that, for
England’s sake, all things must be done, is
naturally anxious to play England’s game.
There is no dishonor in his attitude, deep as
is the dishonor which attaches itself to those
representatives of the Australian people who
are prepared, from mere laziness or from a
spirit of truckling subserviency to the Cham-
berlain gang, to fall in with his views. Nor
will the Australian people themselves be un-
deserving of censure if they fail to oppose,
by all means possible, this proposal from the
outset. Their apathy has already allowed
several dangerous inroads on Liberty. If
they permit to have put on them the fetters
of a standing army, raised for England’s
service, led by England's officers, a fighting
caste whose hopes of advancement and
whose very living will depend on Eng-
land and her wars, when the inevitable
consequences come on them they will be
objects of contempt rather than of pity. The
Australian Federal Constitution was not
contrived for the direction of a military
power. It omits all those safeguards against
the army being made the tool of irresponsible
ambition which are provided in England. Just
now most people would laugh at the idea of
an Australian Parliament being dissolved and
an Australian Constitution overthrown by a
military leader. But, once establish a stand-
ing army, whose main purpose of life will
be to participate in wars abroad, whose
sentiments and sympathies will from the
first be detached from its own country,
and whose ambitions will centre on the
glory and loot of foreign military service ;
and a military despotism comes at once
within the range of practical politics.
• * * *
The Australian defence policy should be
the exact antithesis of that propounded by
General Hutton, if Australian nationalism
is to be conserved. There should be prac-
tically no “standing army”—only such
regulars as the exigencies of artillery and
fortress work require ; but as many citizens
as possible should be encouraged to bear
arms, so that the “army” may be as demo-
cratic in spirit and as representative of the
great body of the people as possible. Foreign
service and all kinds of swashbuckling should
be severely discountenanced. Such a force
would be a bulwark against invasion in war,
and not a menace to liberty in peace.
General Hutton’s army would be no bulwark
to us, whatever it might be for England, and
its threat to Freedom would be constant.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Ghostly March.
(Over 20,000 British soldiers have now died from
wounds or disease during the S’African war).
Five abreast they tramp
(Hold your shuddering breath,
Though your brow be damp,
Silent, look on Death ) —
On, through London’s gates,
To the Abbey door,
Twenty thousand fates,
Harvest of the war.
Home, from southern seas,
Ghosts in ghostly ships—
Requiems in the breeze,
Moaning life’s eclipse;
Requiems in the waves,
Nature touched with pain—
Home from Afric graves
Marching once again.
From the Docks they start,
Through the cheerless East;
Past Aldgate next—past brokers’ mart—
Past home of civic feast.
Rands may rise anew,
Mayoral wine be red—
What is that to you,
Twenty thousand dead ?
What is’t now to you
How the ending came—
Bullet from the blue
Or a blunderer’s shame ?
Food or clothing scant,
Fever’s dreadful glow ?
Made HER mourning, and
Made the children’s wo8.
Past St. Paul’s your way ye take
(Lo ! its muffled bell) —
Fleet-street next, whose fatal power
Fateful war shall tell ;
On to Commons’ splendid pile,
Abbey’s open door;
Ye throng awhile the storied aisle,
Then vanish evermore.
Some have yet to start
When some have reached the Fane —
Lines two yards apart,
Ghostly six-mile chain.
Six miles length of woe,
Million looks distressed
Victims of Death’s overthrow
Marching five abreast.
London n. Frank Colebrook.
Philp’s Polly.
The dreary Robert Philp, State Premier of
Queensland, appeared before a meeting at Rock-
hampton (Q.) recently to defend the thing he calls
his financial policy, but which looks more like a
child’s first arithmetic blown up by dynamite and
coming down again promiscuously, The case
against Philp, in a financial sense, is large enough
to call for a whole lot of defence, and may be sum-
marised thus:
(1) Philp has been Premier for two years. During these
two years the Queensland revenue boomed up so
gloriously as to break all past records. No previous
Treasurer had anything like such a revenue at command.
Philp had, in his ivorst year, £153,000 more to spend than
Dickson had in 1899 ; £559,000 more than Bviinbs had in
1898 ; and £714,000 more than Nelson had in 1897. It
rained glorious good luck on Philp as it never did on any
other Queensland Treasurer.
(2) And whereas Nelson, Byrnes and Dickson made
ends meet, and had an average surplus, ever since 1894,
of £71,000 a year with which to reduce the old deficit,
Philp, with an enormously larger revenue has had an
average shortage of £240,000 a year.
(3) And the cause of this huge disaster is that, while
NELSOn, in 1895, paid his way with an expenditure of
£3,308,000, Philp, in 1901, got through £4,855,000, and
yet there is hardly anything to show for this incredible
growth of expenditure.
(4) And the fair inference is that there is either, in
Queensland, the most utter incapacity on record, or that
there is a fixed and deliberate intention of running the
State into bankruptcy with a view to a suspension of the
Constitution.at the demand of the public creditors, and a
reversion to the Crown Colony system ; or that there is in
view some other purpose that can’t bear inspection.
This was the case which Premier Philp had to
answer, and his answer was just this :
He defied anyone to say that the money was misap-
plied. The endowment to local authorities was £43,000
more than in 1898 ; the interest was£9o,ooo, representing
money borrowed for public works. The next item was
£153,000 spent on the South African contingents.
(Cheers.) He was quite satisfied that a large majority of
the people of the State were willing for that money to be
spent—(applause)—but had the Labor party their way
this money would not have been so used. (Applause.)
The census cost £14,000, and the Government Printing
Office £15,000; but less would be spent next year.
Charity took £23,000, and bubonic plague £22,000, which
the Government were justified in spending in endeavor-
ing to wipe the plague out. (Applause.) Public works
took £48,000 more ; but he could assure them that much
less would be spent this year. (Applause.) Public
instruction represented £63,000 extra. Did anyone ob-
ject to the extra amount? (“No, no.”) It was quite
the other way. From all parts of the State came demands
for new schools, and the teachers thought they
ought to get more in the way of remuneration.
Surveys took t'20,000 more. The Government were
trying to open up the colony to settlement in
every part, and extra money must be spent for the pur-
pose. Agriculture represented £16,000 extra, and in this
connection everyone recognised that jve must make more
endeavors to settle an agricultural population in the
State. A sum of £372,000 more was spent on railways.
In the working of the latter there had been a loss on the
various systems. The railways had brought in more
revenue. Why had they gone back ? It was because of
the biggest drought ever experienced. (Applause.) No
place had suffered so much. The items quoted amounted
to nearly £925,000. Could anyone point to extravagance
in them ?
Philp’s defence against the charge of being the
most extravagant, incompetent, and muddled
Premier in Australia—a man who has, in propor-
tion to the population of his country, the biggest
revenue save one in the world, and can’t anything
like make ends meet at that—is to enumerate the
different departments in which the principal
mismanagements, or the principal political steals,
occurred. Supposing Dickson, convicted the
other day of a huge shortage in the funds of
Melbourne University, had professed to clear
his character by enumerating the horses that the
missing money was lost upon, he would have stood
on very much the same intellectual plane as
Philp. At the best, Philp’s plea is that the
huge expenditure is unavoidable—or at least that
he can’t ayoid it. Therefore while he remains in
office it will continue, and by Philp’s own show-
ing either Philp must go out or Queensland must
go to immortal smash.
The “Herald’s” Unwonted Excitement.
Last Friday the Sydney Morning Herald, in
its leading columns, asked William Lyne the
following questions in quite an excited tone of
voice. The old lady of Hunter-street was ob-
viously flustered, and had her bonnet wildly
cocked over her eye as she spoke :
How then can he (Lyne) say truthfully that “ as soon
as the Dibbs duties were taken off by Mr. Reid i 1895
with one spring prices went up to what they h..d been
before”? The implication here that prices were lower
under the Dibbs tariff than under the Reid tariff, or
under Freetrade before Mr. Dibbs’ Government was in
office, is one that requires to be supported by illustra-
tions. ... It is simply impossible that under protec-
tionist duties any people can have commodities as
cheaply as under Freetrade. Some time ago it was
pointed out by our correspondents that the cost
of living in France and Germany was much greater
than in England because of the protectionist duties in
the one case and the free ports in the other. . . .
If William Lyne “can, with his family, live £lO9 cheaper
in Victoria than in New South Wale's,” it certainly will
not be under equal conditions of comfort. The case of
the larger number of Savings Banks depositors in Vic-
toria, with relatively smaller amounts than in New South
Wales, proves to the hilt that the class of people who
deposit such moneys had smaller means in the Protec-
tionist State than the same class in what, at the time,
was the Freetrade State. Surely William Lyne can see
that that answers his own fallacy.
The Bulletin has great pleasure in supplying
some, at least, of the information required. It
has done so before, and quoted its authority,
as the Herald is well aware, though that
anti-Australian paper, as a servile agent of
the German and French and American and
English manufacturer, and of their local agents,
is hardly likely to admit the fact. Cogiilan,
the N.S.W. State Statistician, publishes, on
pages 523 to 527 of his “Wealth and Progress of
N.S.W.” for 1898-9 the average retail prices in
Sydney of 19 principal articles of food over a long
series of years. Comparing the Protectionist
year 1892, under Dibbs’ tariff, with the allegedly
Freetrade year 1891, under the Parkes-M‘Millan
tariff, he shows that in eight cases the prices
remained the same ; in two cases they increased a
very little under Protection ; in nine cases they
dropped under Protection. Then comparing 1895
(the last year of the Protective Dibbs tariff) with
1896 (the first year of the Freetrade Reid tariff)
the same table shows than in 14 cases prices
remained the same; in two cases prices in-
creased under Freetrade ; and in three cases
they diminished, but in two of these three
cases the prices went up again in 1897, so that
by the second year of Freetrade prices were
very distinctly higher than under Protection. That
gives a very considerable balance in favor of Pro-
tection. As regards Lyne’s statement that he
can live more cheaply in a Protectionist State,
Coghlan furnishes good evidence in support of
that also. In his article on the “ Cost of Living ”
(“Seven Colonies of Australasia” for 1899-1900,
pages 412 to 421), he declares that the N.S.W. in-
habitant, in these Freetrade days, got less food
than the Australasian average, and paid more for
it. These are his figures :
Pounds of food
annually per
inhabitant. Cost.
Australasia .. 1679 .. £l2 15 11
N.S. Wales .. 1038 .. 13 15 2
The result is that the inhabitant of Freetrade
New South Wales had 411 b. less food per annum
than the average for Australasia, and paid nearly
£1 more for it, so that in both respects the one
Freetrade or semi-Freetrade State made the worst
probably^'nows a great deal more about statistics
than the S.M. Herald does, shows how Free-
trade Britain and certain Protectionist countries
compare in the same matter :
Pounds of Food
annually per Cost.
Inhabitant.
Britain (Freetrade) .. 1,007 .. £l4 4 9
Austria (Protectionist) .. 1,122 .. 717 4
Germany ( „ ) .. 1,682 .. 10 18 5
France ( ~ ) .. 1,239 .. 12 4 5
The food includes all kinds of grain (bread, por-
ridge, &c.), all kinds of meat, sugar, butter,
cheese, potatoes, salt, tea, and coffee. Coghlan’s
calculations are based on the investigations of
Mulhall, the greatest statistician in England
and a staunch Freetrader, and they show the
Englishman to be worse fed, on the average, than
the Austrian, German, or Frenchman, and at a
much greater price. And in a country like
Britain, where, according to the statistician,
Mulhall, “nearly 80 per cent, of the total
wealth is held by per cent, of the adult
population,” this is only what might fairly
be expected. But it is in its poor little struggle
to demonstrate that the Victorian worker, who
, has £7 16s. per inhabitant in the savings bank,
and £34 Os. 7d. per inhabitant in all his banks,
must therefore be worse off than the N.S.W.
worker, who has only £7 Bs. sd. per head in the
savings bank, and £3l 9s. lid. in all banks, that
the importers’ organ falls in most badly. And
the superior tone of pity for a weaker brother
with which the silly penn’orth propounds its
elaborate ignorance adds an extra frill and decora-
tion to the whole business, and rounds it off with
two long ears and a bray, in a manner of speaking.
♦
Wanted, a Plague Scare !
Acting on the principle that the best treatment
for a disease is to cover it over and hide it some-
how, the daily press of Sydney is doing its utmost
to minimise the importance of the 1902 plague
outbreak. But both the business men who make
demands for silence, and the newspapers which
accede to those demands are allowing their
timidity to overcome their common-sense. The
position facing Sydney in 1902 is that a plague
outbreak is imminent, which may prove far
more serious than that of 1900 ; and that the
proper steps will be taken only if the terrors
of the situation are properly appreciated. This
year a healthy rat inoculated with the virus from
one of the plague cases is killed in half the time
taken by the poison in 1900, therefore the possi-
bility that the 1902 sample of bubonic disease is
worse than its predecessor can’t be overlooked.
The Centres of contagion are not out-of-the-way
wharves and distant suburbs as in 1900, but busi-
ness blocks in the very heart of the city, the
centres of common resort, where are situated some
of the biggest hotels and some of the chief-theatres.
The opportunities for the dissemination of the
disease are therefore much greater than in 1900.
With a disease of possibly greater virulence, much
more centrally situated, and with, too, a far
greater degree of carelessness on the part of the
citizens as to infection, it is obvious that in March
and April, the plague months, a great—perhaps a
very great—number of cases may be reasonably
expected. In 1900 it was not till the beginning of
May that the disease reached its worst. There is
nothing to be gained by silence. It is far better
to face a present loss than to blunder blindly into
an absolute calamity. During the 1900 outbreak,
Attorney-General Wise threatened to criminally
prosecute property-owners guilty of gross dis-
regard of decency and sanitation. There were no
prosecutions, and the same threat, now revived in
1902, does not frighten anyone. In 1900 it was
pointed out that only a small percentage —prac-
tically an insignificant percentage—of the premises
in the City of Sydney proper were effectively
connected with the sewerage system. The great
majority were attached in such a way as to facilitate
free circulation of sewer rats, sewer gas, and other
abominations in the interiors of houses. Many
sewerage pipes, in addition, allowed some of the
sewerage matter to percolate through floorings, and
to store itself permanently between walls and ceil-
ings. Prompt legislation was promised, at the
time of the exposure, to deal with the evil by
giving the Water and Sewerage Board the power
(which it then lacked) of forcing these filthy abuses
to be remedied. The legislation was* however,
never passed. Parliament found it necessary to
adjourn in a hurry for the Great Commonwealth
Drunk, and a little matter of public health was not
allowed to delay the rush for the banquets and the
titles. Now prompt legislation is proposed again
on this subject (only the Coronation Drunk will
be in the road); and it will probably continue to
be promised, and, like other sanitary reforms, only
promised, until there is a really effective and
continued plague scare. And when the legis-
lation arrives it probably won’t be en-
forced, whereby the public regret at its late-
ness of arrival may be lessened somewhat.
Sydney has already learned that the places
which were cleaned in 1900 are mostly foul again;
some of the fever dens which were pulled down
then have been rebuilt on the old lines ; the sani-
tary laws, the sewerage system, the want of a
decent Building Act, the divided control of the
metropolis among 50 or 60 impotent and wrang-
ling authorities—all these are just where they
were_ in 1900. Everything, in fact, is where it
was in 1900 except the scandals connected with
the £4,000,000 Darling Harbor loan.
The Sydney Water Supply Trouble.
What The Bulletin pointed out some time ago
is at last published by Sydney daily papers—that
the water-supply of Sydney is radically defective
and is administered by a grievously-incompetent
Board. It will require about £500,000 to put the
system into decent working order, and there i3 a
grave danger that, if the drought lasts, the
N.S.W. metropolis will suffer from a water-
famine. It is one of the most hopeless facts about
N.S.W. public life that public officials dread
nothing more than publicity, and that in their
hush-it-up efforts the press—influenced by adver-
tisements, by the hope of billets, or by social
influence—is always willing to aid them. Thus,
the public seldom learns of any scandal until
it is too late to apply a prompt remedy. If
Sydney really strikes a grievous famine, then
its people can think bitterly of the Prospect
Chinese gardens irrigated by the leakages from
the water-supply—of the millions of gallons of
water thus wasted in the past. At the bottom of
the whole trouble there is, of course, the financial
difficulty—that financial difficulty which is at the
bottom of everything in Australia. The Jacob
Garrard department doesn’t levy sufficient rates
to keep itself solvent. It is many years since it
paid its way. In 1899, which was an unusually
good year, the Water and Sewerage Board had a
deficit of nearly £4OOO, allowing absolutely nothing


for depreciation of the works. In 1900 the deficit
was nearly £14,000, again without including any
allowance for depreciation. As for any mar-
gin to allow of paying off the debt, and
systematically writing down the value of the
works, and for extending the works and keeping
them up to date, that was never dreamt of. So to
avoid a little extra taxation the water-supply
system has been allowed to fall into decay. The
time will come when, by reason of this decay, the
leaky open ditch which brings in Sydney’s water
will fall to pieces and have to be written off as a
bad debt, and the bad debt and the water, famine
will strike Sydney simultaneously. Now it is pro-
posed to spend a large sum—perhaps £500,000 —on
extensions. The money will be borrowed, of
course, and the interest will make the bankrupt
Jake Garrard department still more bankrupt.
And if the rates are raised they will probably be
raised just enough to meet, or partly meet, the
interest, and the old process of letting things
moulder to save a little expense will still continue.
The habit of letting things moulder to keep down
immediate taxation is at the bottom of almost
every trouble in this country.
♦
M'Millan’s New Protected Industries.
The Bulletin is again pleased to be able to put
on record the opinion of William M‘Millan,
M.H.R., and sub-leader of the Freetrade party,
that Protection doesn’t necessarily raise prices
after all. The extraneous M‘Millan, in his place
in the House of Representatives, has long felt
called upon to denounce Australian industries, and
cry out at the top of his voice on behalf of English,
German and Dutch manufacturers, and has
declared for many years that Protection raises
prices to a ruinous extent, and that the protected
manufacturer (he is one himself now) is a vampire
of the deepest dye. But M'Millan’s people
(M‘Arthur and Cos.) have had to become manu-
facturers, as well as importers, under the Federal
Protectionist tariff, and they have to reluctantly
admit, in a business way, that they are not
putting the duties on to their prices, that
their charges are as low as, or even lower than,
before the duties were put on, that their
locally-manufactured shirt, built under heavy
Protection, is as cheap and as good as the old
imported shirt, and that they aren’t a vampire.
In fact, the admission is torn with difficulty from
M‘Millan’ s firm that, if the public buys its pro-
tected goods, none of the dreadful things that
M'Millan has foretold during all these years will
ensue, and the public receives circulars like this :
THREE GREAT LINES OF FLANNELS AT LESS
THAN FREETRADE PRICES.
28/29-inch, 60yd. lengths, at 9d. per yard.
30-inch full, 48yd. ~ lid. ~
36-inch full, 48yd. „ 13i. ~
In Assorted Colours as Samples enclosed.
Please COMPARE these with any imported or locally
purchased goods you may have obtained before the Duties
were imposed.
You will recognise these GOODS are of EXCEPTIONAL
VALUE, and it will prove to your advantage to fill
requirements for the coming season IMMEDIATELY.
Our supplies from the Mills are coming forward freely,
and we are prepared to execute your orders at once, or if
placed with us now can guarantee delivery for either
March Ist or April Ist, as you may desire.
Soliciting your favors, we are, dear sir, yours faithfully,
W. & A. M'ARTHUR, LTD.
Sydney, 20th February, 1902.
This is M'Millan, in a business sense, declaring
that his prices under Protection are less than they
were under Freetrade ; just as last week we had
M'Millan assuring the public by circular that if
it bought goods from nis new factory (where,
thanks to the Federal tariff, much labor that for-
merly didn’t know where to find a crust is now
employed) it would SAVE THE PER
CENT. DUTY. It is pathetic to think of
the years the locust hath eaten or, rather,
the years M'Millan has wasted assuring
a mentally-distracted country that a 27| per
cent, duty meant an increase of at least 40 per
cent, to the consumer. It is impossible to suppose
that M'Millan would deceive the public for a
little paltry gain made out of the sale of his shirts,
so the only possible inference is that he has found
his old theory about how prices necessarily went
up to a terrible extent under Protection to be an
unfortunate delusion.
Queensland : A Pastoral Failure.
The Bulletin receives this letter from a business
man in Northern Queensland :
I notice you take a very close interest in Queensland
matters. So doubtless you have noticed that the
Chamber of Commerce, Townsville, passed a very enthusi-
astic motion favoring the land grant system of railway
construction, more particularly in regard to the Grand
Trunk Transcontinental Railway which will develop
country now useless and bring Queensland the prosperity
which has forsaken it. The scheme is set forth in the
Townsville Daily Bulletin of Bth February. But I
am afraid that you may confuse it with Chillagoe
or some other Wild Oat mining scheme, not
that I am against Chillagoe but unfortunately its
non-success has damned our unfortunate State in the
eyes of the financial world, and I would not like you to
think that the Grand Trunk Transcontinental was a
bloated syndicate spec. Of course, the political opposi-
tion of a few frightened fish who like to see shipping
freights high, ports prosperous and the inland gasping
settler paying the piper, may cause a loud outcry. But
the people of the west sorely need the railway. We
would like your sympathy in forcing the Government
to make the necessary connections or allow others to
do so.
So if this railway is made Queensland is to be
prosperous again. It is the last big drunk that is
to save the country—there is always just one more
big loan drunk wanted to save the country.
Asa matter of fact, however, Queensland is more
saved and more prosperous than it has any reason
to expect with its present huge debt burden. If
it builds its transcontinental railway either with
money raised in England by the Government, or
with money raised in England by a syndicate, it
will be so much more debt, and the State will be
so much the worse off. The Queensland trans-
continental line won’t pay till there is far more
population, and it couldn’t make population
unless the country to be traversed got anew
climate. A comparatively rainless region can’t be
saved by ten railways, let alone one. While the
line was being built there would certainly be a
spurt of prosperity, for a lot of loan money (State
loans or syndicate loans) would be spent in wages
on the construction job. Then the country would
settle down to the grind of paying out of taxation
interest on the foreign loans, or paying rent on
the land granted to the foreign syndicate (it
certainly wouldn’t take its land grant in the
country traversed by its railway), and the
condition of Queensland would be worse than
it is now. The state of affairs in Western
Queensland is certainly bad enough, but the lines,
even in the better-watered parts of the country, do
little more than pay working expenses, and anew
line in the West would probably do less than that.
Neither Western Queensland nor Western Gehenna
can be made habitable by railways. Queensland
has tried so often to save itself and restore its
prosperity by building railways with loan funds
than it has now more line in proportion to popu-
lation than any other country on earth, Westralia
\lone oxcepted. If the enormous amount of
railway it possesses hasn’t brought prosperity to
even the more promising parts of the State, there
is little hope of bringing riches to the howling
deserts of the West with more of it. If a
man isn’t sober after drinking two bottles
of whisky, he isn’t likely to be made
sober by two more bottles. Queensland as
a cattle and sheep country is a failure. It is
mainly a pastoral land, and yet, in cattle, horses,
sheep, and pigs, it holds barely one-third of the
number contained in Great Britain and Ireland,
one-third the number contained in France,
one-third the number in Germany, and it is far
behind Spain, or even the little Danubian States
that were cut out of Turkey. It never came any-
where near Britain, or France, or Germany, in
the matter of live stock—not in .its best days,
before the drought; yet these three countries
are densely-peopled, mostly devoted" to agriculture
or occupied by towns and cities, and would all go
into Queensland’s area with much room to spare.
What Queensland requires, seemingly, is to culti-
vate its decently-watered coastal country for all it
is worth ; to push on manufactures ; and to write
off the west as a bad debt. To make railways
into a cattle and sheep country whieh won’t grow
cattle and sheep to any extent worth mentioning
is suicidal.
Labor Party Finance.
The other day G. D. Meudell, of Melb., wrote
some plain truths about South Australia —pointed
to its diminishing male population and its in-
creasing debt, and showed that a trifle over
100,000 men are left to pay an interest bill of a
million a year, mainly out of wheat harvests that
don’t average 4f bushels to the acre. What fol-
lowed was characteristic. Most Adelaide people
wouldn’t face the music at all; they snorted that
it was “ another Melbourne attack on South Aus-
tralia,” and rushed on to read the cricket scores.
A few Micawbers said that Meudell had for-
gotten the Moontas and Broken Hills that would
most likely turn up shortly. About the only ones
who did own up that Meudell was writing horse-
sense were Conservatives; and, of course, they
used his figures to show the ruinous consequences
of free education and factory inspectors. Ap-
parently the Laborites took their cue from that,
and, as usual on matters of finance, said nothing.
It is just this refusal of Laborites and a good many
Liberals to look the facts fairly in the face that
represents one of the big slices of bad luck ori
Australia’s plate to-day. The Labor parties were
hatched 10 years ago for the express purpose of
knocking out political opportunists; arid, so far
as social reforms go, they have done good work
that way. But until they honestly face this
question of public incomings and outgoings
they must also be counted among; the op-
portunists. And when the other parties had
shirked the question Premier Jenkins tendered
his explanation and alleged defence, and shirked
it too. Jenkins’s explanation is that a good deal
of the loan money has been invested in railways
and other public works which pay the full, or
nearly the full, interest on the money spent upon
them. That is the stereotyped explanation, and
the Jenkinses of this country—Australia is full
of Jenkinses —apparently quite fail to see that it
makes the case very little better. The points
which the Jenkins clan won’t understand are
mainly these:
(1) South Australia has to send away about £1,000,000
a year to pay interest on its foreign public debt, and pro-
bably £1,500,000 a year to pay interest on its foreign
public and private debt. And whether the money, before
it goes away, is filtered through the hands of the railway
department, or the water-works department, or any
other department down to the dog-tax office, the drain
on the country’s aggregate resources is the same.
(2) If the money was borrowed abroad at 3£ per cent,
and invested in public works that yielded 8 per cent, the
drain on the country would still be the same—there
would still be the same £1,000,000 or £1,500,000 a year
going out.
(3) To pay this tribute, S.A. must either learn to do
with less imports, which means less luxuries, -or work
harder and produce more exports, or else it must go on
borrowing (as it is doing), and burst later on, or else it
must burst now. If it left off foreign borrowing, and
didn’t import less, or export more, S.A. would have no
money at all in about three years.
(4) The Jenkins plea is practically to the effect that
the S.A. railways pay reasonably well, and all the profits
have to go to the foreign creditor ; that the waterworks
pay reasonably well, and all the profits go to the* foreign
creditor; in fact, that the profit on everything the
Government owns which yields a profit is mopped up by
the foreign creditor. And Jenkins is apparently rather
proud of this state of things.
The Jenkinses of Australia—which is a Jenkins-
ridden country—always profess to have proved
that borrowing is quite safe when they have
demonstrated that they collect most of the inte-
rest-bill from the people in railway charges instead
of in income-tax charges. And the strange thing
is that the public appears to accept the Jenkins
explanation in perfect good faith.
Ketcliener’s Cordon.
A million or two per week is a stiff price to pay,
and there are many signs that Britain is growing
terribly sick of the S’African war. There is also
considerable evidence that other nations are
growing tired of watching the big dog trying to
worry the little dog. The sorry hash tne big.dog
is making of the proceedings provokes remark in
more countries than Germany, and in more dialects
than are spoken through the nose. And while.the
loyalty of the Commonwealth to the Empire is
unquestioned, there are more than a few people
here whose worship of the British \rmy is not
now particularly abject. And small wonder,
either, for it ought to begin to dawn on even
the most unreasoning Jingo pretty soon that
British generals show a lot more persistence
than generalship. The “difficulties of guerrilla
warfare ” are said to be prolonging the war, but,
after all, the simple way to meet guerrillas is by
sending out more and better-mounted and armed
and provisioned guerrillas to meet them. Of
course the guerrilla who carries a piano and ain
iron bedstead and a cooking stove can’t
hope to overtake the one not thus encum-
bered, but why not leave these behind ?
Mark the changes of bowling tried since
Paardeburg: Proclamations, threats, hangings,
concentration-camps, block-houses, farm-burn-
ings, mobile columns with pianos, ditto without
pianos, night marches, subsidising of privateering
gangs, more proclamations, cattle-duffing, subor-
nation of natives, &c., &c. Every change was
vociferously applauded, and it was predicted of
each that it would soon finish the game. And
still Botha and De Wet are at the wickets. The
latest brilliant idea that struck Ketchener, the*
Resourceful, was to drive the Boers like so many
wallabies into a corner by a long thin line or
cordon of kharki “beaters,” whereby the whole
country-side was to be swept clear of the enemy
in something less than two weeks. The opera-
tions of this cordon, so far, remind people here-
abouts of the famous Tasmanian “block line” of
Governor Arthur’s time. A cordon of white
soldiers and settlers and convicts was stretched
across the island vvitli the object of secur-
ing the remnants of the aboriginal tribes.
The total bag of the costly “drive” was
two decrepit blacks. All the others slid
through the cordon on dark nights. De Wet
and his followers seem to successfully follow a
similar plan with Ketohener’b cordon. Before
the next drive is attempted some pits should be
dug in the veldt, carefully concealed by tarpaulins
or proclamations, or something. Having regard
to the stupid Boer tendency to fall in, this plan
should prove eminently successful. It is a some-
what primitive method of warfare, certainly, but
so is the cordon ; and when modern arts fail,
ancient devices should not be condemned without
trial. As an alternative, the War Office might
send out a few million bushels of those little spiked
affairs that the Scotch used at Bannockburn to
make cavalry work difficult. If a good thick
sowing of these were made throughout the enemy’s
country, business-ends up, the mobility of the
Boers would be gone for ever. While they were
pulling the tin tacks out of their feet, Ketchener
could hurry up and effect captures wholesale. But
the pit-trap is the better plan. It would be safe
to operate, and would at least capture something.
The Dogmas of War.
Cabled that “Switzerland proposes an early
revision of the Geneva Convention, to embody
the lessons of the Boer war.” If Switzerland has
the sense to see it, the chief lesson of the Boer
war is to show the absolute uselessness of the
Geneva Convention and its “rules of warfare.”
These rules, subscribed to by various nations, are
very pretty in the abstract, but, when it comes to
actual fighting, they are broken with impunity,
and there is no penalty to the transgressor.
When a couple of nations of equal, or nearly equal,
strength start a row they may, at the outset,
observe a good deal of politeness in their fighting,
because of the idea common to both that the for-
tunes of war are uncertain, and that the upperdog of
to-day may be the lower dog of to-morrow.
When, however, conditions become unequal, and
one side sees that it is bound to win and the other
to lose, the irritation at “an unduly prolonged
resistance ” on the one side and the fury of des-
f air on the other, soon sweep away all politeness.
n those cases where the nations involved are of
nothing like the same size, where the issue can
hardly be in doubt at the outset, the rules of war-
fare are only so much respected as the shame-
facedness of one party and the patience of the
other dictate: that is to say, as a rule, they are
not respected at all. A little nation is apt to lose
sight of Geneva rules in its despairing irritation,
and the bigger one, by a trait of human nature, is
apt to become very cruel and sullen if its little op-
ponent doesn’t give in after the first blow. The
Geneva Conventions of the past have never sug-
gested any means by which their very excellent
rules of warfare might be enforced, and there does
not seem to be any attempt in that direction now.
Under the circumstances the passing of further
rules is like laying down a Decalogue and for-
getting to provide a Hell. The nations of the
earth are not yet educated up to the ethical stan-
dard of obeying laws which can be enforced by no
penalties.
The Callousness of Women.
“ Gumleaf” on a subject that badly wants venti-
lating :
A false notion of chivalry, handed down from the foolish
feudal days, has blinded the world to the brutal callous-
ness of women. One of the delusions of civilisation
is that women are more kind - hearted, gentle and
affectionate than men. Yet the histpry of every
nation is black - streaked with the brutality of
women. But it is not necessary to go to ancient history
for samples of women’s crueity. The treatment of a
helpless child is the true test of kind-heartedness. Only
a fiend can ill-use a babe. Yet women, about whose
gentleness and care much mawky foolishness is written
and talked, do it every hour of the day and night.
For proof, one has only to read the newspaper
reports of how little helpless children are done
to death by the criminal carelessness of women.
These dreadful stories have a strangely hideous likeness.
They generally open with the remark “ While Mrs.
was talking to her next door neighbour her little son,
aged three and a half years, fell into a pot of boiling
water which his mother had left standing on the kitchen
floor.” At the coroner’s court a verdict of accidental
death is tamely recorded, and the world goes on deluding
itself that women are gentle, humane and full of love for
children. If a contractor leaves a heap of broken metal
unprotected on the road, and someone is thrown out ef
his cart and killed in consequence, that contractor stands
a good chance of going up for manslaughter. A man-
slaughter verdict against some of the women who leave
pots of boiling water about for their children to fall into
is badly needed to bring these careless wretches to a
proper sense of their responsibility. It may be argued
that carelessness and thoughtlessness do not prove cal-
lousness. In some cases they do not. But, as between
parent and child, carelessness is callousness spelled dif-
ferently. It is the callousness that begets the careless-
ness. There is no insuperable difficulty in keeping- & efiifid
away from a boiling pot or a boiling pot away from s cMd.
The fact that it is not done is the oiear evidence care-
lessness, arising from a heartless disreg-ard tm the
Eainful consequences to the child. And while the
oiling and roasting cases stick out conspicuously
as evidences of women’s callousness, there are other
evidences that do not attract , so much notice.
The high rate of infant mortality is one of them. What
an eloquent denial of woman’s alleged tenderness is this
record of wholesale baby murder ? Improper feeding and
neglect account for most of the deaths. Granted that
ignorance and thoughtlessness are at the bottom of this
evil, their existence is proof of heartlessness. In some
cases the improper feeding is deliberate on the part of
mothers. The writer has personal knowledge of half-a-
dozen women who, although well able to feed their
children from the breast, deliberately “ stopped ” their
milk in order to preserve their figures. Ignorance on the
part of a mother of the way to feed and look after her
child is no excuse in these days. If she had any feeling
for the child she would soon learn how best to bring
her offspring through the dangers of childhood. Instead,
how often is it found that a mother, to save herself
trouble and thought, gives a child something to pacify it
for a moment, but which will have the effect of doing so
for eternity. Everyone with eyes must have sec-n
children given green fruit to stop them crying when the
same end could be reached by the mother keeping
the flies out of their eyes or by cleaning them. The
callousness of mothers is unnatural as far as their
children are concerned. It seems to be directly trace-
able to women’s growing dislike to the performance of
their natural function—child-bearing. To the frivolous,
' pleasure-hunting women of to-day child-bearing is hate-
ful. How often are women heard to say, “ Oh, children
tie one down so.” Every effort is made to keep down
the number in the family. This prenatal murderous in-
tent has a woeful effect upon the character of women—
possibly worse than prostitution. Hence it follows that
the hatred of the unborn child results in neglect and
callousness in regard to it after birth.
4.- •
MelbOur ne Age complaint
As to the claims of Christianity upon the black races,
these blood-stained Dutch trekkers treated them as
nought. 1 '- The black man to them was scarcely a huma i
-being. He was not permitted to enter their churches or
Bo mingle with them except as a degraded serf. The
1 Boer proved himself the worst of all tyrants to the weak
—an ignorant and degraded tyrant; and he proved him-
self the worst of all neighbors to the strong—an encroach-
ing and suspicious neighbor.
David Syjie is a member of an Empire which, has
encroached upon over 11,000,000 square miles of
the earth’s surface, and still David is shocked at
the little Boer State’s encroachments. As to the
fact that the Boer doesn’t allow the Kaffir to
mingle with him on anything like equal terms,
nobody has ever seen an aboriginal dining at
David’s lordly table, or noticed King Billy
Eutting his battered tile under a front seat in
lavid’s tabernacle. The white Britisher tries
to feel like a brother to his black relative,
but he makes no more real success of the
work than the Boer himself. And Britain’s chief
friend, brother and ally is supposed to be the
United States, where black men are still burned
alive by lynch law. After all, the average man
is only shocked at the way some nigger is treated
when there is a handsome profit to be made by
being shocked. If he was liable to be shocked
gratis, something pretty bad would have happened
ere this to Westralia, where the black slave is not
encouraged to go to church regularly with his
Bible under his arm and his 3d. collection-money
in his loin-cloth—when things run to a loin-cloth.
The Criminal Court trial of Dickson, late
accountant of Melb. University, brought out very
little that was news re the £25,000 shortage in
Dickson’s cash. Whisperers before the trial
hinted at a coming revelation of accomplices in
Dickson’s frauds, or a least a disclosure of large
borrowings of money by the accountant’s learned
friends at the University. But when the time
came for Dickson to look sinned against rather
than sinning, he could produce nothing more sen-
sational than a letter written to him by Registrar
a’Beckett, asking for the loan of £IOO in addition
to the £IOO which he (a’Beckett) had previously
borrowed. This was evidence of the Registrar
being under serious obligation to his inferior
officer, but the wording of the letter went
to show that the borrower thought he was
appealing to a man in possession of some private
means, rather than demanding assistance from a
dishonest accountant. Anyway the reprehensible
a’Beckett was not the first person to receive
stolen money from Dickson, nor did his total
borrowings amount to more than a vulgar fraction
of the magnificent £25,000 deficiency in the
prisoner’s cash. Dickson, it is generally under-
stood, was a juggins who fell into the hands of
Ikey Mo. The Melb. University frauds may be
instanced as an argument in favor of the Totalisa-
tor, seeing that the South Australian police
records show a decline in the annual crop of
embezzlements, such as Dickson was guilty of,
since the seductive credit bookmaker was knocked
out of fashion by the honest, plain-dealing
machine. Looks as though Ikey Mo must have
repaid a substantial sum to Dickson in order to
keep him quiet concerning the true purpose of his
big steals.
+ '
Premier Philp’s lusty barracker, Brisbane
Courier, keeps on talking with the dull buzz of a
phonograph about how the Queensland State
finances have been “dislocated by drought,” and
how its clumsy muddler has had “a gigantic task ”
to encounter, and such-like twaddle. If the
Courier will be honest for once, which is probably
impossible, and will publish a statement of the
revenue for the last 10 or 20 years, it will then
reveal the fact that Philp, in the year of his great
deficit, had more revenue than any other Queensland
Treasurer ever received—that his finances weren’t
dislocated by drought—and that there was nothing
wrong at the Treasury except that Phiup’s is the
worst, most incapable and most disreputable
gang of political drunks that even the Continuous
Ministry has ever produced. No Queensland
Premier ever had such a splendid revenue to
spend as Philp, and the shortage, the looming in-
solvency, the need for heavy direct taxation, and
the general disaster all arise from one cause—that
Philp’s proper position is not so much at the head
of the State as in the shafts of a fruit barrow.
The bubonic up-to-date hasn’t paid a neighborly
call to Melbourne ; but the odds are very much in
favor of its doing so. It may reckon on a really
lordly reception. There are just now, for instance,
in the big W. Melbourne dock several tons of fish,
in a condition of extreme ripeness. The Board of
Health is “considering ” this fish, but up to time
of writing had done nothing. The Harbor Trust
says the fish is dutiable, and so it dare not touch
it. The Customs people say it is not dutiable,
and, even if it were, it is the Trust’s business to
get the venerable fish out of the road. The con-
signees are carefully lying low, and decline to take
any interest at all in their damaged wares. Mean-
while, the rats are having a gorgeous feast, and
are stowing away in their holes a good supply of
bad fish against the coming winter. The same
rats still pass the time between meals in sampling,
pawing, and otherwise befouling the “slack”
sugar on the wharves prior to its being swept up,
re-bagged and sold by the cheap grocers.
* ♦-
Last year’s clear profits of the S’African diamond
fields were £2,687,999. The fields have been
working 32 years, and it is estimated they will
last another 144 years. Long ago there was a
signed agreement between Great Britain and the
Orange Free State, by which the former promised
to make no treaties with the native tribes north
of the Orange River. But the great Diamond
Fields were discovered on Free State territory,
and north of the Orange. In a very few years the
Free State was notified that the patch of territory
was claimed by a Kaffir chief named Watkrboeh,
and that Britain, as his ally, was going to take
possession. It took possession, at the point
of the bayonet. Later, the Free State pointed
out that the fields hadn’t been handed over to the
alleged rightful owner, Waterboeu, but that
Britain was itself in occupation. Then it was ex-
plained that Waterboer’s alleged title had
proved to be all wrong, after all. Great Britain
refused to return the territory seized under this
unfortunate misapprehension, but it offered
£90,000 compensation. And still there are Jingo
papers which want to know what possible
grievance the Orange Free State had to make it
throw in its lot with Kruger’s commandoes.
The recent uprising of the Bengal Chamber of'
Commerce to' protest against the white labor
clauses of fche Australian Postal Bill is a fine
example oipthe ghastly insolence of the superior
kind of person. The Australian Senate proposed
that Australia should not subsidise any mail boats
manned by colored crews, and the Bengal Cham-
ber of Commerce declared itself “ quite at a loss to
understand the motives of the Bill, or on what
principle of right and equity it was based.” The
Chamber then went on to complain against the
arrogance of Australia in dictating to shipowners
outside of Australia as to how they should work
their ships. It saw nothing impudent in the
action of a chamber of commerce dictating to a
sPlf-governing community of four millions of
people how it should spend its coin. Australia,
let it be observed, didn’t propose to dictate to
any shipowner what kind of crews he should
employ; it merely proposed to dictate to itself what
kind of ships it should subsidise. In other words it
proposed to do what it thought best with its own
money. The Bengal Chamber of Commerce holds
that Australia has no right to do what it thinks
best with its own money, which is just where Aus-
tralia and the yellow gentlemen with the curried
stomachs disagree.


The equitable life assurance society
of the United States.
FINANCIAL STATEMENT
FOR YEAR ENDING 31st DECEMBER, 190 T.
ASSETS
INCREASE IN ASSETS ..
SURPLUS .. « ..
•’ INCREASE IN SURPLUS _ .. _
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
INCREASE IN ASSURANCE IN FORCE ..
THE NEW BUSINESS EXCEEDED THAT OF 1900 by ...
£68.966,608
£5,508,678
£14,797,717
£1,039,973
£245,682,651
£13,000,350
£8,088,718
LOCAL DIRECTORS:
; ar ' E :°r M 'N6S>T"M.VNi g„. K '„S OKELLAE ’ ;
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
„ „ S. W. D’A ROY IRVINE, FSS
F. C.UOVVLEY, Secretary. , ; . . Manager for N.S.W.’and Queensland.
THE NEW
MILITARY
FIELD GLASS.
Very Powerful. As used by I
Officers of the British Army *
in South Africa. Quickly
Focussed. Magnifying’ 5 times.
In Solid leather Sling Case.
65/-, Aluminium 85/-.
WOOD, “The Optician,”
Only Address in N.S. W.—
299 GEORGE-ST. (op . Hunter-st.), SYDNEY
. . AND . .
Equitable Buildings, Elizabeth-St., Melbourne.
FACILE PRIN CEPS.
SEMPER IDEM.
ħ
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Ben Hur.”
Lyceum “ Hearts are Trumps.”
Palace World’s Entertainers.
Theatre R0ya1....... “Aladdin.”
Tivoli. Rickards’ 00.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ Sweet Nell of Old Drury.”
Her Majesty’s “A Runaway Girl.”
Theatre Royal “ The Widow O’Brien."
Bijou World’s Entertainers.
Opera House Rickards’ Variety 00.
The Plague shows poor discrimination in
its choice of victims. With so many entirely dull
and humorless persons to select from, it singled out
Ada Lee and Sally Booth, of the Arnold Comedy
Co., for attack, and sent them from a world which
their bright cleverness had done much to amuse.
Ada Lee will be best remembered in Sydney as the
Swedish housemaid who “never saw anybody
gum in, never saw anybody gum out” of the
house invaded by Jones: Sally Booth as the
President of the Cook Ladies’ Union, who, by
superior bad cooking, drove a haughty mother-in-
law from the habitation of Smith. The infected
Criterion Hotel was responsible for the death of
the two chums, who shared a room there. They
were removed together to the hospital and died
within a few hours of one another, the elder suc-
cumbing first. -•
* * * •
Australia, and N.S. W. in particular, seems
to be an unlucky place for theatricals. Count
over the deaths of visiting stars: Amy Roselle,
and Arthur Dacre, Sadie Macdonald, Dante the
Great, Oscar Girard, Ada Lee, Sallie Booth—
these are but a few of the names that occur.
** * #
A large audience, some of which was re-
duced to the dress-circle steps, gathered together
to welcome the return of Bland Holt and co. at
Sydney Lyceum on Saturday night, and to pass
up bouquets of all shapes and sizes to Mrs. B.
“ Hearts are Trumps,” by Cecil Raleigh, is not
quite an ideal play, apart from its numerous
pictures. The male characters are rather sketchy,
and the early part of the drama is sketchy also ;
but when once the Baccarat Scandal and the
Gymkhana are well under weigh the play takes a
spurt, and the various tall, black-coated gentle-
men, who all seem too much alike at first, sort
themselves out. “ Hearts are Trumps ” deals
mostly with high-class society ladies who scream
and yell at their card-playing in a way which
would be considered quite wrong amongst people
without handles to their names. In these gilded
halls of aristocracy high-bred countesses accuse
other blue-blooded dames of cheating, and a stout
lady of immense social standing is ordered off to
bed by her husband. Also, the stout lady goes.
All this is valuable knowledge to Bill and his best
girl in the gallery. It is a drama with considerable
good dressing in it, and when a high bred lady
says she is so dreadfully poor that she will have to
end it all, she is certain to appear in the next act
in a Frenchier hat and a longer and frillier tail-
piece than formerly. The nominal heroine is a
daughter of Miss Frances Ross, with a mania for
getting into trouble from the purest of motives.
She gets into social disgrace first because an artist
has painted a classically undraped figure on to the
portrait of her head, and exhibited it at the Royal
Academy, whereat all the ladies who scream and
veil at cards won’t speak to Dora or her mother.
There is material for an excellent libel-action in
this, but Frances Ross merely gets angry before
the picture and tears it somewhat. The classical
female who is supposed to be Dora has the most
dreadful anatomy this scribe has ever seen
on canvas ; and if Dora was really thought
to be like that, her guardians ought to
have lent her to the Zoo as a giraffe.
In the next act, Dora tumbles into disgrace once
more, when, in order to save the unhappy home,
she appears at the Frivolity Theatre in brown
tights as a ballad singer. Dora’s mamma, who is
as particular as fast ladies usually are, rebukes her
violently and publicly from a box, and all of the
Frivolity audience that isn’t dummy rises in
wrath. The fact that the manager of the Frivolity
rushes after Dora next morning with an offer of
£5O a week, isn’t much more extraordinary than
that a ballad singer should appear in tights instead
of the regulation evening dress. In act IV. Dora is
coaxed off to Switzerland, where a dim red sun peers
through the dark mists of dawn for her benefit,
and rises slowly while she is hung over an Alpine
chasm by Bland Holt. He and Albert Norman
topple over the chasm, followed by convincing
rocks, and an uninteresting curate rescues Dora,
preparatory to taking her back to the simple,
innocent village where her only troubles will be
with the choir and the weekly mothers’ meeting.
She is evidently quite unsuited to good society, as
she does not seem able to learn what sins can be
committed and what can’t.
* • * •
Mrs. Bland Holt lives up to the amount
of floral decoration she received when she first
appeared as a Friv. artist limping from the effect
of trying to learn a stage bicycle turn. It is a
good part, with plenty of business in it, and Mrs.
Bland has never had one to suit her better. She
does not overact her seriousness when she is
touched, in orthodox bad girl style, by the
friendliness of the good girl with the undressed
portrait. Miss Frances Ross has improved in her
ac ing, and harangues in front of the dreadfully-
drawn giraffe portrait very effectively. No
humor from the servants’ hall obtrudes into the
drama ; Bland Holt supplies what is needed in
that line while engaged in his occupation as a
r oney-lender with a tendency towards insuring
] eople’s lives and then arranging large moun-
' ainous accidents for them. He works some good
Blaad Holtish effects into this lightsome part,
and perishes forcibly with a pasteboard rock
pursuing him down the large, dim chasm
that looks almost as terrific on the stage
as it is made to do on the posters. W. E. Baker
is forced to hide his good looks under the guise
of a gray-haired Australian millionaire, while his
melodious voice is lost in a heavy Yorkshire
accent which he has faithfully preserved during his
wanderings. For the rest, special mention must
be made of the Earl of Burford’s dancing that i 3
supposed to get into the excellent biograph enter-
tainment, which the audience that is partly dummy
and the audience that isn’t dummy at all, both
witness. Bland Holt’s stage audience looks just
as intelligent on the whole as the one to which this
writer belongs, which observation is meant
kindly, and isn’t nearly so hostile as it looks.
** * *
Sydney Palace was announcing some
new turns when this paper went to
press. This theatre, after a vigorous inspection
by the health authorities, has been declared
absolutely clean. There wasn’t even a high-
smelling joke found on the premises.
* ifc * *
At Her Majesty’s, Sydney, the young man
of the House of Hur, whose father was honored in
the guest-chamber of Augustus, and all the nobles,
citizens, guards, lictors, camel-drivers and lepers
that move in his orbit, go toiling, rejoicing, and
sorrowing for three hours nightly. The ohariot
race lasts for the full five minutes now, and the
audience goes as mad with joy as if it stood to
share the talents that boss bookmaker Sanballat
has taken in the race from the Romans. Messala’s
and Ben Hur’s race-suits of scarlet and gold and
white and gold respectively must have taken the
eyes of female Antioch considerably. Ben Hur’s
chief fault is his mode of address. Whether as a
galley slave talking to the Tribune, or making
love to the Egyptian or Jewish maiden, or as the
anxious son demanding his mother’s whereabouts,
or haughtily stopping the Roman’s chariot, it is all
in the same manner—quick, peremptory, as if he
were seeking a quarrel. The desert tents wherein
Ilderim receives his guests are worth attention, so
is the apartment in the house of Simonides, at
Antioch. Pigeon-holes filled with mortgages,
bills of exchange, and electric-light concessions
from the Pro-consul of Syria, a money-weighing
machine (faked), a poker machine (for sale), and
through the open door a beautiful view of the port
of Antioch with furled sails and galley masts
seen across a low wall covered with purple wis-
taria. Esther, the merchant’s daughter, in this
apartment, declines to be a sister to Ben Hur.
She would rather be his slave ; there is more hope
of him matrimonially in that capacity than in the
“ sister ” state.
** * *
Sydney Royal draws fair audiences to
witness the marriage of the Emperor’s only child
with the laundry lady’s only son. The laundry
isn’t a paying spec, and the lad—who evidently
loafs on his mother—larks around Pekin, spilin’
for a fight and looking for an heiress, in the
raggedest of old jackets and the bashedest of old
hats. So the contrast when the fairies in the
cave clothe him in a superb coat of cloth-of-star-
beams, set with travelling meteorites, is dazzling.
No questions are asked as to how the fairies
have ready-made clothing of such value and
good fit in the cave. And as Aladdin walks
out o’ nights with an Emperor’s child, he
shows no desire to remain in the cave, though
it is tenanted by lovely girls and prismatic
fountains. Chow Chow, the animated pawn-
offiee, Widow Twankey and her nose (red, because
she has been reared on carrots), the Brooklyn cake-
walk, and the Porcelain Procession help the
extravaganza along joyfully.. Ada Willoughby’s
songs, “Sue, I love you!” and “My daddy’s
a gentleman” get her encores, and the Jew
and the comic policeman nightly spoil Miss
Harrington’s song to Aladdin, ere he goes cave-
dwelling, by their antics. Then on canvas there
is the deep blue Inland Sea of the far East, where
Japanese flowers and bamboos grow, and cranes,
with long.foolish legs backdrawn, and long foolish
necks outstretched, fly through the sunset. And if
only the Gotham quartette would eat some of the
phosphor-paste bread and butter squares, now so
plentiful, present penciller would take the extrava-
ganza altogether merrily.
** * *
Miss Peggy Pryde made a welcome re-
appearance at Sydney Tivoli last Saturday. Miss
Pryde is one of the few imported English music
hall stars who did not prove disappointing to the
Australian public: her vitality is magnetic, and
she rouses up a dull, indifferent audience with
her strident little voice. Since her last visit
Peggy’s singing has gone off a little in tone, but
her fun is just as exuberant as ever. The Net-
Ball Game continues to be an attraction, and is
eagerly “barracked” every night. A new item
is provided by a gentleman with a very stern jaw
who punches a ball with speed and vigor. As the
ball can’t hit back there is nothing very stirring
m this turn. A new baritone singer, Mr. James
Opie, calls for no particular comment.
** * *
Sydney Empire closed up last Saturday
night, and temporarily retired from public life,
having kept up a healthy attendance to the last’
There was never anything to strain the intellect in
Ben Fuller s show, and it afforded enjovment of a
primitive sort to persons who like their humor
very obvious and very loud. So for these reasons
it is satisfactory to know that Benjamin re-opens
after Easter.
** * #
Owing to the prevalence of Lent, and other
causes pf depression, Melbourne goes freely to the
-.theatre just now. Likewise visitors from the
ulterior and.members of the horse persuasion are
assisting music and the drama in a practical
manner. At Her Majesty’s, the pulse of “A
THIS IS HOW.
GEORGE REID (on “South Africa Day”): “ How
was it that so many Australians went over to
fight under the British flag? ”
Runaway Girl ” beats strong. Nobody finds any
particular fault with the girl who quits a convent
and takes to wandering minstrelsy. She is a
plump, cheerful fugitive, for her own part, and
numerous distressed relativesand friends, whodon’t
suspect her of being Florence Young, and are on
the. track of the wrong female until nearly closing
time, present themselves to notice in a favorable
light. Hugh Ward is a highly satisfactory old
uncle of noble birth. Miss Grace Palotta diffuses
an atmosphere of superior gaiety and light re-
freshment. Miss Wallace has a deportment to
match her costume; and Kenningham imper-
sonates a perplexed tenor .with some sense of
humor. As far as its story goes, “A Runaway
Girl ” may be said to hang together. It has a
story. Even Laurie and Carrie Moore are distantly
concerned in the main idea, although they are not
bound to admit the fact. Lauri as Fiipper, a
jockey, amounts to somewhat the same sort of
joke as Lurcher, the sheriff’s officer in “Dorothy,”
and Carrie Moore is the agile soubrette who looks
after him when he isn’t looking after her. Two
misplaced items in the co. are Bantock and Miss
Beatty.. Bantock was all right as the ponderous
mandarin in “ San Toy,” but his attempt to play
Brother Tamarind from the convent is sadly
feeble, and the trouble with his lady help is that
she ought to be a stout, well-matured Peggy
Pryde instead of a merely buxom young Aus-
tralian girl whose cockney accent sounds like a
borrowed article. The chorus is a capable crowd
of gaudy Italians, Venetians, and British tourist
girls, _ and the orchestra and scenery rise to the
occasion.
** * *
Six nights of “ When the Lamps are
Lighted” will terminate at Melb. Royal on
Friday, after which J. F. Sheridan reverts to his
old original Widow O’Brien for one more last
week. “The Lamps” is a lurid melodrama
relieved by a series of Sheridans in various dis-
guises, the principal J.F.S. being a little
Irishman named Dan, who runs a mysterious
caravan show with the assistance of his wife Tilly.
An infant son and heir and a Dickensesque hired
gal figure in the domestic phases of Dan’s career,
whilst a murdered millionaire, an ex-convict, and
a lady who went astray for her daughter’s sake, are
responsible for much sorrow and remorse. “ The
Lamps” offers violent acting opportunities to
several people, but the co. at the Royal is not
such a gifted combination as it might be, conse-
quently the intervals of tragedy lack force and the
narrative in general is not so harrowing as one
could wish to be harrowed with. Two years ago
“ The Lamps ” was rather better treated than now
in some of its gloomiest spots, and if the present
performance were billed to endure for another
week The Bulletin would drop heavily on the
awfullest delinquents. Miss Maud Gwynne, who
has a rich sympathetic voice for expressing her
shame, shines by comparison with the others in
spite of her amateurish way of picking up her
skirt, and Miss Mavis is a pleasant Tilly.
* * - * $
Touching “ Sweet Nell of Old Drury,” at
the Princess’s, there is nothing to remark this
week except a steady improvement in the work of
everybody concerned, from Nell Gwynne and her
Royal Charles down to the deplorable alderman
who speaks three lines in the second act. Nell,
at her harpsichord and elsewhere, is an even
prettier picture than she made on the first night,
and the King, in the high-backed chair, seems to
harmonise more than ever with the furniture and
sinful sentiment of the situation. Moreover, the
artistic success has “ caught on ” to all branches
of the community, which fact disposes of Robert
Brough’s complaint that Melbourne has little or
no taste for high-class comedy nowadays.
»* * *
The competition in the Polite Vaudeville
trade proceeds as usual. It is about as fierce as
Politeness will permit. It has even arrived at
the uttermost limit of competition in the matter
of illustrated song-song, for Jennie Opie at one
house warbles the same yarn about the same pic-
tures that Frances Gwynne warbles about at the
neighboring establishment. Competition suits
the hungry populace all the time. The h.p. gets
great value for prompt cash and lives in hope of a
happy future, when Rickards will be too polite to
charge for admission, anyhow. Up to now that
prodigal manager has been content to keep on
increasing the expenses of his show, but he might
as well reduce expenses and distribute the savings
in the form of silver souvenirs.
** * *
Derenda and Breen from Sydney are the
latest -novelties at Melb. Opera House. The
success of those remarkable club jugglers last
Saturday was brilliant in an advt. way of speak-
ing, add the size of the audience that rose at ’em
was Immense.
Y** * *
Also there was a large and joyful atten-
dance at the Bijou where the principal “turn ” is
the skilful juggler Salerno, who swallowed Cinque-
valli’s photo, in his youth and grew up accordingly.
Salerno bears such a resemblance to Cinquevaili
that his assistant has seemingly been inspired to
emulate the waysof Walter. Walter was Cinque.’s
assistant, but in this case the resemblance doesn’t
extend to the hair, eyes and smile. Walter had a
unique smile. The Warsaw Bros, and Neal
M‘Cay were to be added to the Bijou programme
on Monday of this week.
** # *
Adelaide Royal lately broke out with
Paradise Lost,” set to music, in five acts
aid 34 scenes! And the city of churches
duly rose to the opportunity of observing Satan
reproving Sin —which it had often heard about,
bat never expected actually to see; also of learn-
ing the exact distinction between Lucifer and
Beelzebub and Belial, and of being able to allude
to “ all the devils in Hell ” without using impro-
per language. The Tivoli continues to present a
peaceful show, mostly revolving round the
Jackson family’s musical turn.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
It has been announced that the Federal Govern-
ment is about to float its first loan of either £250,000 or
£500,000. There are other loans to follow—in fact, the
amount already authorised is £1,000,000, for post-offices,
telegraphs, telephones, rifles (£100,000), field guns
(£44,000), buildings, &c. The first loan is to be for 50
years, but a 1 per cent, sinking-fund is to be provided
which will redeem it in about 47 years—unless, which is
almost certain, some impecunious Treasurer gets Parlia-
ment to sanction the seizure of the sinking-fund, or its
virtual suspension, as happened in Maoriland. The sink-
ing-fund is to be invested in bonds of the Federal debt.
And the whole business is cumbersome, stupid, and
thriftless to the last degree.
Suppose the Federal Government borrows, on a
steady average, £500,000 a year (though any other average
sum would point the moral just as well) at 3 per cent., with
1 per cent, sinking fund. Interest and sinking fund will
cost £20,000 the first year, £200,000 the 10th year,
£500,000 the 25th year, £BOO,OOO in the 40th year, £900,000
in the 45th year’, and so on. If the Federal Government
charged the whole £500,000 annually of public works and
military and other expenditure to revenue, the country
would have to pay a little more for perhaps the first 24
years, and a great deal less for all the years after that.
The relief afforded to the revenue by' the loan policy
would be considerable for the first 10 years, but it would
be less every year, until after 15 years or so it would be
hardly perceptible. This is how things would go :
Charge on revenue if Charge on
the Commonwealth revenue if
borrows £500,000 an- the money
nually (3 per cent. is provided
interest ; 1 per cent. out of taxa-
sinking fund). tion.
Ist year .. £20,000 .. £500,000
” ” 200,000 .. 500,000
» •• 400,000 .. 500,000
30th „ .. 600,000 .. 500,000
40th „ .. 800,000 .. 600,000
47t h » •• 940,000 .. 500,000
And every year
after the 47th .. 940,000 .. 500,000
This doesn’t really show all the badness and silliness
of the loan policy—the great postponement dodge—for it
will cost, in addition to the interest and sinking fund a
large amount in expenses of floating loans, in discounts
exchange, management charges, &c. Discount on loans’
alone, in a bad year, may run to £50,000. Then there is
the possibility—almost the certainty—that the money
can’t be procured at 3 per cent., or anything like that
price. But, taking none of these things into account,
the situation as regards the loan and sinking fund dodge
is that it will save, at most, £480,000 the first year’
£300,000 the 10th year, £103,000 the 20th year, nothing
in the 25th year, and that thereafter it will mean a loss
that will swell up till it reaches £440,000 a year, and will
remain at that for ever. It is a pitiably foolish idea in
every respect.
* * * *
The very day that Bigjohn published his state-
ment, replying to G. D. Meudell, that “ from 1891 to the
present time there have only been two deficit years— viz
1898 and 1899,” No. 20 of the Westralian “ Statistical
Abstracts ” came along to prove what a shockingly loose
person Bigjohn is-for table No. 6 reads like this :
Excess of
v , , „ Revenue. Expenditure.
Year ended Dec. 31, 1892 .. £6 728
„ „ June 30, 1893 .. 531550
1894 .. £24,889
.. .» 1895 .. 189,212
.. .. » 1896 .. 34,823 _
» » » 1897 .. 3,298 _
»> » .. 1898 .. 502,165
» » >i 1899 .. 60,547'
.» .. >, 1900 .. 259,721
■ > •> >» 1901 .. 87,210
* * * •
The Standard Fire and Marine Insurance Co.
of Maoriland :
IBOQ Dividends. Reserves.
1893 .. -£11,70l 10 per cent. =£7,500 £43,469
iSt " 8,176 10 » >• 7,500 44,145
1895 •• 5,134 7% „ „ 5,625 43,654
1896 .. 5,822 7£ „ „ 5,625 43,851
Loss.
1897 .. 4,872 6 „ „ 3,750 35,229
Profit.
I® l ** •• 4,373 6J „ „ 4,687 34,915
1899 .. 11,409 7£ „ „ 6,625 40,699
4969 ’• 13 ’ 494 10 .> ~ 7,500 46,693
1991 ''a i 1 ; 013 1° » » 7,500 50,206
ihe Standard Insurance Co. appears to have got into a
reasonably consistent groove of prosperity. It never
ranked quite with the three great Maoriland fire and
marine offices—the New Zealand, South British, and
National—but if it can keep on progressing as it has done
d . uri ?£ the last four years there is no reason whj r it
should not do so. Its premium income is expanding at a
very steady rate, the gross premiums since 1893 being
as follows:
1894 .. £72,637
1895 .. 73,858
1896 .. 80,389
1897 .. 77,706
189 S .. £80,234
1899 .. 84,169
1900 .. 88,875
1901 .. 91,171
The only point to which any serious exception can be
taken is the great lack of information as to the nature of
the securities in which the company’s money is invested
( Investments, £73,771,” is a dark saying, and can hardly


stocks Kept of
RAND ROCK DRILLS & AIR COMPRESSORS
. ,g : BY THE SOLE AGENTS—
■' N. GTJTHRIDGE, LTD., 71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
And at 486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE; WELLINGTON, N.Z.;
214 HIGH STREET, FREMANTLE; KALCOORLIE.
h
-TRAMWAYS, TRAMWAYS.
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Prop. Ltd.
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
Representing ORENSTEIN & KOPPEL LTD., of LONDON and BERLIN,
Equip Complete TRAMWAYS and supply Every Description of Tramway Material.
|*T“ Locomotives from 10 to 250 h.p.
STOCKS IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE include Rails- and Accessories, Steel Sleepers,
Turntables, Switches, Side Tipping Trucks, Steel Wheels, &c. Technical advice gratuitously
rendered. Flying and Permanent Surveys arranged. Illustrated Catalogues and Photo-
I graphic Albums showing Tramways constructed in different parts of the World, upon
application. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager.
A keen mining man who has just returned from
a visit to the Briseis (Tas.) tin mine, predicts a good
future for the show, “ especially as providing materia
for a colossal gamble."
* * • *
The A.M.A. (Miners’ Association), which was
a big thing when Vic., Broken Hill, Newcastle, theS. Aus.
copper-mines, and others were under one roof, has
dwindled sadly since it disintegrated. In Vic., where
the association was cradled, five branches alone have
700 members less than they had 12 months ago. It is at
once a striking illustration of the dangers of the miner’s
work and of the excellence of the association that last
year the society “ benefits ” totalled £13,000: And yet
fatal accidents were much fewer than usual; only 14
members were killed as against 29 in 1899. Apropos, the
A.M.A. formed 12 months ago at Kalgoorlie is doing well ;
it has now 900 members.
In addition to its other mining specialties,
N. Guthridge, Ltd., have now taken up pumps, having
been appointed agents for the Pulsometer Engineering
Co., England. The manufactures of this company are
well known, but it does not confine itself to the celebrated
Pulsometer Steam Pump. Pumps of various kinds are
manufactured by the Pulsometer Engineering Co., and
kept in stock by the agents at 71 Clarence-street,
Sydney, and 486 Collins-street, Melbourne.* ,
* * * »
Mr. A. Gilfillan, B.Sc., C.E. (Edin.), Mining
and Metallurgical Engineer, Stock Exchange Buildings,
Melbourne, is leaving for London about April next, for
the purpose of establishing a London office, and attending
to the flotation of approved mining and other proposi-
tions. Before leaving Mr. Gilfillan will visit the various
colonies for the purpose of inspecting any options which
may be offered. Correspondence invited from miner
owners who have properties worth handling.*
• * * •
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagb-street, 74-
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * • %
See for yourself. The Australian Medical
Gazette of January, 1891, compares Zetz Spa to the cele-
brated Vichy waters of France, and states that it is
valuable for gout, rheumatism, gravel, catarrh of the
bladder, diabetes, dyspepsia, splenic and hepatic dis-
orders.
V * • * * .
Vanning Tables.—The very newest and what
gives exceedingly fair promise of superseding all other
tables is the machine known as the YVesley-Baird Vanning
Table. The table is of South Australian invention, and
has given excellent results on Broken Hill ores and ores
containing pyrites, carbonate of copper and tin. Like all
tables, the best work is done on “ fines,” and more espe-
cially when the product is properly classified. The
Central Mining and Tramway Co., of 424 Little Collins-
street, Melbourne, and 40 Hunter-street, Sydney, are the
sole agents in the Eastern States. The table has a capa-
city up to 30 tons per day.*
« • * *
Local Government Journal, July, 1901 :
“ The Colonial Mutual in 1900 : Funds 31st. March, 1875,
£2864 ; Funds 31st. December, 1900, £2,491,989. YVe
believe that we are correct in stating that no life assur-
ance office in the world can show such a record as that
given above.”*
• • • *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “Option,"
Melbourne.*
•** - •
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemista.
» * * »
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary' spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts,nuts, forgings, andall sorts of iron-work.*
• * • *
The Austral Otis Engineering Co.’s tender for
the supply of nearly a million arc lamps of Conradty’s
manufacture has been accepted by the City Council of
Melbourne. The same co. has also been entrusted with
the supply of the Launceston City Council’s requirements
of arc lamp carbons.*
* *• * *
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buciiu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
* * * *
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can be ob-
tained of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.
* * • *
Deep borings (to 4750 ft.) having confirmed the
thickness, value and regularity of the main reef series, it
is reckoned by care.'ul authorities that the Rand will be
running 17,000 stamps and producing 50 millions of gold
annually within seven years—also, it will then be employ'-
ing 350,000 niggers in the mines, as against but 120,000
when only 6000 stamps were going.
CYANIDE
GUAT VJTSSD
93100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles. Caustic Soda,
Borax, Arsenic, Carbonate of So.la, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM
Naptha, Benzine and Blasting; Charges,
Hy. Ma^kwa^d,
17S WilLUtu-stree
MRUBOaiiNB;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney; 68 Currie-xt., Adel.; S 7 Ija lie-street,
Brisb.; and at (.'hristchm ch, Dunedin, WeUinjton, aai
Auckland, NZ.
be called a source of information). Otherwise things are
very satisfactory. The interest earnings for 1901 repre-
sent about £4 4s. per cent, per annum on the actual
investments, and show a slight improvement on last year.
Also, the Standard is well and cheaply managed, its
expense rate being much below the Australasian average.
Yet the present writer doesn’t particularly yearn to be a
shareholder in the Standard. A batch of £lO shares, on
each of which 15s. per share is paid up and £9 ss. is call-
able, is a thing calculated to keep one awake at night.
» * * *
The prospectus of the A.M.P. Society was
issued at the end of December, 1848, with a list of 28
patrons and vice-patrons, three trustees, six directors,
two auditors, a solicitor, a medical referee and a secre-
tary—42 in all, and only one of them, Charles Nicholson,
is now on deck. Mr. j. M. Pearse, of East Maitland, took
out one of the first policies, 15th Aug., 1849, and he still
lives
• * • *
The Sydney Permanent Freehold Land and
Building Co., despite the heavy writing-off done last
year, appears to go down hill even faster than before.
This institution is in the unique position of paying no
interest whatever on its deposits—it has paid none since
1896 ; and as it, of course, pays no dividends, it has only
working expenses and interest on a mortgage of less than
£lO,OOO to struggle with. And property to the alleged
value of £129,000 doesn’t earn enough to pay these items.
The retrogression since 1896 has been as follows :
Capital
Profit on Loss on Total nominally
Business. Properties. Deficit. intact.
1896.. .. .. £16,395 .. £86,360
1897.. £lB7 .. £1,522 .. 17,730 .. 85,025
Loss on
Business.
1898.. £32 .. 3,383 .. 2i,145 .. 81,610
1899.. 33 .. 2,323 .. 23,506 .. 79,249
1900.. 340 .. 34,372 .. 58,218 .. 44,539
1901.. 562 .. 2,723 .. 61,503 .. 41,254
The co. has managed to call up about £2 of new capital
in five years.
It would be difficult to imagine a much more
hopeless-looking situation than that of the Sydney Per-
manent Freehold Land and Building Co. The loss on the
current business grows larger every year, despite the fact
that the deposits, which still amount to £77,496, cost
nothing in interest, and the co. professes to have £41,254
of capital still intact, making over £llB,OOO available for
trading purposes which costs the co. absolutely nothing.
The assets are nominally still worth about £129,000, but
the last year’s earnings (£1096) represent only about
18s. per cent, per annum on this alleged value,
so the real present value is probably about one-
fifth of the figures shown in the balance-sheet.
The co. apparently collects the rents from £116,500
worth (nominal) of property, and the net rents collected
last year were £3Bl, equal to about 7s. per cent, per
annum. The deposits are being slowly paid off, but, on
present appearances, even with the considerable amount
of capital which professes to be still intact, the chances of
depositors getting 20s. in the £ are very remote.
9 * * *
The Standard Mutual Building Society (Mel-
bourne) shows a material improvement, and after a long
period of retrogression its reserves begin to grow again :
Profits Dividends
on and
Business Property Deprecia-
Profits. Sales. tion. Reserves.
July, 1897 .. £BB5 Written-off=£l7ll £13,542
Jan., 1898 .. 476 „ „ 1191 12,827
July, 1898.. 657 „ ~ 2250 11,234
Jan., 1899.. 904 Nil 12,138
July, 1899 .. 1011 Written-off = 692 12,457
Jan., 1900.. 739 „ „ 73 13,123
July, 1900 .. 1269 „ „ 660 13,732
(£49,600 capital cancelled and written-off)
Jan., 1901 .. 1451 £l2OB Written-off = 6942 9,449
July, 1901 .. 1542 608 { lO » cent . ” } 8,724
Jan., 1902 .. 1952 1277 6 „ ~ 1434 10,519
The position begins to be at least respectable. The
amounts realised on property sales can’t fairly be regarded
as profit in the ordinary sense of the term ; the properties
were written down heavily out of capital, and when some
of them realise more than the written-down value it
simply means, not that a profit has been made, but that
the loss has proved to be rather less than was expected.
But the earnings of the business represent, for last half-
year, over 8 per cent, per annum on the reduced capital of
about £48,000 ; and the reserves, after a long period of
decline, have begun to grow again at a respectable rate.
They will have to grow for a long while before the lost
capital can be restored, but still, with care and moderate
dividends, that result should be arrived at in time.
« « * *
Maoriland Agricultural Department is raging
about alleged frauds perpetrated with its State’s butter.
Maoriland butter has now acquired a high repute in Eng-
land, and it is reported that the inferior Australian
butter-maker buys it, planes off the brand, put his own
degraded Australian superscription on the box, and sends
it Englandwards so as to work up a reputation that will
help the sale of his own inferior cow-grease. But for this
admixture it is claimed in some excited quarters that the
Australian cow-fat would be so uniformly poor that it
wouldn’t sell at all. Strong measures, in the way of huge,
deeply-indented brands which can’t be planed off without
wrecking the box, are threatened. After all, the best
way would be to prohibit the export to this country,
which, apparently, doesn’t deserve Maoriland butter.
• * * *
The N.S.W. Fresh Food and Ice Co. (Sydney)
publishes another balance-sheet which doesn’t throw
much light on the actual position of the co. In fact, in
the absence of any information as to the total amount of
depreciation which is required to put everything on a sound
footing now, and the amount required to be provided each
half-year to keep things on a sound footing hereafter, it
is difficult to form any estimate of the position. The
figures shown in recent balance-sheets are as under:
Written
off
Profit. Dividends. Plant. Reserves.
June, 1899 .. £9256 .. 8 p.c. = £6120.. £3000.. £32,726
Dec., 1899 .. 7327 ..8 „ „ 6120.. 1400.. 32,533
June,l9oo .. 5465 ..6 „ „ 4693.. 1500.. 31,805
Dec., 1900 .. 2587.. Nil. .. 2000.. 32,392
June, 1901 .. 4510 .. Nil. .. .. 36,902
Dec., 1901 .. 4541 ... Nil. .. .. 41,443
The reserves are described as depreciation-fund £39,192,
and undivided profit £2251. If the amounts carried, from
time to time, to depreciation-fund are all required, and
simply represent the average rate at which the co.’s
£208,000 worth of machinery, plant, &c., may be expected
to depreciate, then the CO. isn’t earning much over 1 per
cent, per annum on its capital of £165,114. The whole
profits of last half-year, without any allowance for depre-
ciation, only represent a little over 5 per cent, on capital.
During the past half-year the co.’s bank overdraft has
been considerably reduced —partly, it would seem,
through the proceeds (£4175) of the sale of property—but
even now the net overdraft, less cash in hand, stands at
£15,074. Said net overdraft has been as follows in recent
times :
June, 1899 .. £BlO6 Dec., 1900 .. £21,394
Dec., 1899 .. 12,643 June, 1901 .. 26,540
June, 1900 .. 22,149 Dec., 1901 .. 15,074
The improvement is very considerable, but it has only
been effected by the complete stoppage of dividends, and
taking one thing with another the situation is not a
highly promising one.
Bullion is conveyed by rail between Melbourne
and Sydney without much precaution. Frequently con-
signments of 100,000 sovs. go frorh Spencer-st. station in
charge of a couple of weak-looking bank officials. Pub-
licity as to the coin being on board does not appear to be
guarded against in any way. Only thing that keeps
robbers off, seemingly, is the thought that the sickly-
looking bank-clerk with a huge collar is, as shown by
practical experience, very often a cayenne devil to fight.
Statistics on the subject show that it is dangerous to
monkey with the Australian bank-clerk.
* * * *
The Industrial and Provident Permanent Bene-
fit Building and Investment Society and Bank for Savings
(Sydney), which has the most lengthy name on this
continent, still appears to continue the fading process
already alluded to on this page. It is a very slow
process, and with occasional breaks, but the general
tendency appears to be that way. Recent figures are as
follows :
Profits. Dividends. Written Re-
off. serves.
1896 .. £8766
1897 ..£5148 About 6 p.c. =£5519 8395
1898 .. 3457 „ „ 4248 '604
1899 .. 3627 „ „ 3857 '374
1900 .. 4271 ~ „ 3695 '950
1901 .. 3239 „ ~ 3.400' £2B 7761
There is also a mysterious “ Stock Suspense Account,
£1579,” but it doesn’t appear to be anything in the nature
of a reserve, though what it maybe is none too clear.
The society with the long name is apparently shrinking
off the face of the earth by the withdrawal of paid-up
shares. In 1895, the paid-up capital was £113,525, but,
by constant withdrawals, it has now got down to £53,350.
Deposits have remained almost stationary at the very
small figure of a little over £4OOO. If the present rate of
retrogression continues, the institution will apparently
cease altogether in a few years, though vvhether, in that
case, the iast shareholder takes the reserve fund is an-
other question. Meanwhile, the reserves are also disap-
pearing in a gradual sort of fashion.
* * » •
The latest move of the Maoriland Farmers’
Union was to deputationise the Underwriters’ Association
and request that the insurance rates on farm buildings be
reduced, and to suggest that if the Association suffered
any loss thereby, it could be rftacte up 'b-y increasing the
rates on town properties. At the close of the interview
the union showed its claws. It intimated that it hoped
the underwriters would see their way clear to make the
reduction so as to enable the farmers to continue doing
business with the existing companies. Presumably the
union is trying to screw up its courage to put up its own
money and have an insurance fund of its own. If it does
it will be a new departure, for hitherto the Farmers’
Union has not shown much courage ; only amazing
impudence.
* * * *
The Northern Tasmanian Permanent Building
Society (Launceston, Tasmania):
Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
1898 £13,596
1899 £1,802 about 7 per cent. = £1,347 14,051
1900 1,782 „ = 1,335 14,498
1901 1,595 „ = 1,462 14,631
This society has remarkably solid reserves,for its size.
Its capital is 121,962, so the accumulated' profits are,
proportionately, beyond the average. All the same
there is a very material falling off in the profits, and
the earnings only represent about £4 7s. per cent, on the
total of the shareholders’ funds. Probably with the
growing depression in Tasmania a fall in interest is be-
ginning to manifest itself.
The Shamrock Brewing and Malting Co. (Mel
bourne) for the past two years, no figures for any longer
period being available at the moment: —
Profits. Dividends. off serve s.
1900.. £10,348 8 per cent. =£3612 £ll4O £11,528
1901.. 8,393 8 „ „ 3612 1147 15,167
The reserves consist of depreciation fund, £682, and
undivided profit, £14,485. The Shamrock Brewing and
Malting Co. appears to be a remarkably prosperous con-
cern, the profits being over 18 per cent.; but why the
management keeps such a large and cumbrous amount as
undivided profit, instead of carrying it to a permanent
reserve, passes comprehension. There are no dubious
items (goodwill or the like) which seem to require writing
off, which makes the matter look all the more unusual.
• * « *
The Metropolitan Mutual Permanent Building
and Investment Association (Sydney), which has been in
trouble for a long time, has recently decided to face the
situation. It has done this by writing its paid-up capital
down from £145,981 to £42,083. Of the £103,898 thus
provided, £75,250 was written off the book values of
properties, £14,964 was transferred to a reserve _ fund,
£5750 to a contingency fund to meet future possibilities,
and £7934 went in writing off accumulated losses. The
recent record stands as follows: —
Loss on Loss on Total
Business Properties. Loss. Reserves.
1894 £11,160
1895 .. ‘ £3659 £3659 .. 7501
1896 .. 3683 .. £462 .. 4145 .. 3356
1897 2945 .. 398 .. 3343 .. 13
Deficit.
1898 .. 2254 .. 133. ... 2387 .. 2374
1899 .. 938 .. 878 .. 1816 .. 4190
1900 .. 1890 .. 1854 .. 3744 .. '7934
Capital written off. Reserves.
1900 .. 103,898 .. 75,250 .. .. 20,714
Profit. Net Profit.
1901 .. 1597 .. 600 .. 1097 .. 21,811
The net earnings for 1901, despite the large provision
made for losses, only represent a little over 2£ percent, on
the greatly-reduced capital, so, despite the material
improvement which has apparently set in, it would be
rather a sanguine proceeding to decide yet that dividends
are in sight at any early date.
* • • *
Harrold Brothers, the sensational S.A. insol-
vents of five years ago, have just been wound up in the
courts. Their assets realised £28,000, but, largely owing
to the bitter opposition of various creditors (which re-
sulted in imprisonment for one partner), expenses were
enormous. Senate-President Baker’s firm took £4600 in
costs, insolvents’ solicitor £2200, and an opposing creditor.
£lOOO. Eventually, there was £BOOO left to divide, and,’
as this only meant a dividend for the creditors of Bd. and
one-fifth of a farthing in the £, the extent of the liabili-
ties can be imagined.
*• • ■
The mysterious closing-up of the Broken Hill
zinc works 12 months ago, and the stoppage of further
purchases of zinc product, was, it now appears, due to
another of the numerous understandings among the
spelter-distillers of Belgium and West Germany. The
arrangement was to limit production so that the market
should not keep below £l7 ; and, naturally, the foreign
works were shut up first These spelter-producers of
Belgium, Holland, and W. Germany, who are responsible
for more than a third of the world’s total, have worked
together so well that the increase of output for many years
past has been insignificant. Since 1895 the lead output
has gone up 27 per cent., and the copper ditto 42 per
cent. ; but the output of zinc has increased only 17 per
cent., and that there has been even that much is
America’s fault, and not Europe’s. Whether the com-
bination can afford to produce at a much lower price
than £l5 or £l6 isn’t clear, and .therefore , what sort of a
lion it represents in the path of the new Australian zinc
industry isn’t clear, either. This much is clear : the
present price is artificial, and that doesn’t sound too
pleasant.
• * * •
The Miners’ Accident Relief Fund (N.S.W.),
which lately completed its first year of service, hits the
miners’ unions in one place where they didn’t expect it;
it is resulting in heavier calls on their funds. For a time,
the officers couldn’t account for the steady shrinkage in
the bank balances, but they know now. Before, when an
injured man was drawing only the union benefit, he got
“ off the funds ” as soon as he could stand up to his work ;
now, with the additional 12s. a week which he gets from
the State-subsidised fund, he lets himself quite recover
before he takes on hard graft again.. Already, in conse-
quence, one of the biggest of the unions has had to cut
down its benefits.
• * * •
The new development at the B.H. Junction
looks like a pretty large thing; but half its immediate
value is lost because it cannot be economically worked
on account of the extraordinary windings in the under-
ground workings. The British developments are better ;
this co.’s mill will probably start when lead gets to £l2
and looks like staying there. It is reasonably certain
that there is two years’ ore available. The North restart-
ing is also promised at £l2. The Junction cannot do it
at that figure, though ; neither can Block 14, whose
prospects continue dismal. The rooting-out of the
carbonates from this mine should be stopped ;.in fact, the
whole policy and management need overhauling. Legd
continues to pick up a bit in price ; but for all that
statistics look very sick still.
■ ■ • *
The Yanco Glen Water Co., which has so long
been threatening the none too profitable monopoly of the
Broken Hill Water Supply (none too profitable, that is,
considering its short concession), bobs up again with ap-
plications for leases of dam and pumping sites. It
was stated in support that Sydney capitalists (at present
unmentionable, though it was added that one is a leading
Sydney merchant and an M.L.C.) would underwrite the
scheme if the promoters could present a good title. The
matter is, however, again hung up indefinitely.
* • • *
“Sessil”: Bora Creek silver fields (N.S.W.)
are suffering from the general want of water. The
Conrad—bought three years ago for an alleged few hun-
dreds—seems a promising show. New ground is being
opened up at the 250 ft. level—lsoft.-below, .present, work-
ings. Manager now projects opening up the mine 1200 ft.
northward, which, with the present 1200 feet to south, will
uncover the lode right through the property. The later
prospects show the richest and biggest lode yet struck.
There has never been a break in the lode—which runs
right through the Conrad and the adjoining South Blocks.
The mine has paid “ from the grass-roots,” having pro-
duced cost of all works, machinery, etc., from its own
interior. In addition, 3000 to 4000 tons of concentrates
are in hand. The old dam is being enlarged, and a new
one of 6,000,000 to 7,000,000 gallons capacity is nearly
completed.
“ Sessil ” : Jno. Howell and H. E. Moore’s
South Blocks (Conrad Extension) is on the same lode as
the big mine, and a 1200 ft. tunnel connects pup with
parent. The former’s deepest workings are now 300 ft.
below the surface, and drives have exposed thou-
sands of tons of ore ready for stoping—apparently
a finer and richer body of stone than the Conrad’s.
Bora Creek is almost on the verge of the valley of the
Big River—across which is that copper country that, I
believe, will yet be found to extend from Gulf Creek to
Bundarra. Between the Conrad and the river lies a
promising minor show —McCrohon and party’s German
Gully. Here, at the 65'feet level, the lode is 20 feet wide
and not yet cut through. Assays 39ozs. of silver and
some lead. A number of other small shows promise very
fairly. The Gwider, of Gall and party, is on a 4 feet lode
at 33 feet. The owners are reticent but not unhappy. In
all probability Bora will be a big place in a year or two.
* * * *
“Sessil”: Boggy Camp (N.S.W.) diamond
fields are moving again. Alleged that some co.’s were
under contract to supply stones at very low price and
hence output has been limited. Contracts having ex-
pired, more are coming on market. Local price runs up
to £l, or even 255., per carat.
• • * *
Writes a man who has just been to White Cliffs,
the opal mining camp in far-west N.S.W. : “ I know which
is the last township before you get to Hades; I’ve just
come from there on the White Cliffs coach. A thousand
men, and about as many others, are emptied out on the
field. Not a decent habitation in the place, though it is
10 years old ; for few of the people who go there stick.
Not a single tree. Not even a pepper-bush ; and in the
West that is a sure sign of most things that are bad. For
a mining camp fewer pubs, than you would expect.
Not less drinking—good Heavens, no ! ‘ The club ’
keeps the pubs. down. A remarkable institution {s’
this club—‘ the working-men’s club.’ Half of the
male population are members; and the thirstiest
half. The profits have gone in billiard-tables, reading-
room, library, and so on. It offers the best accommoda-
tion of this sort on the field. Its political atmosphere is
lurid with radicalism. Also, it is a hand}' place to do a
deal in opals. Mention opal, and one-half the population
prepares to take down the other half. Apart from that,
it is a typical mining camp. I had to call at about the
biggest store to do business with the boss. Of course, it
was ‘ Well, let’s come and have a taste first.’ It always
is that, even if you only call to buy a packet of candles.
‘ S’pose so,’ says the boss ; then, ‘ Come on, chaps,’ to his
three or four assistants. That’s the rule, too. We all
tasted; the missis looked after the shop till we had
finished. This place, which, if it were in a suburb, you
would reckon carried a stock of about 15 penn’orth of
lollies and three flypapers, is packed with £4OOO worth of
stuff. There’s an aristocracy, of course—mostly with the
front name of Abraham or Moses. But A. and M. don’t
gouge for opal; they buy it.
*’• • *
Editor Bulletin. — Drake has just had its hopes
shattered again. The Mt. Carrington battery, which
occupies the most accessible site for the Hill mines, has
lain idle for the last 12 or 14 years, the owners having
declined to crush for the public. They have left the
plant so religiously alone that the tubes of the boiler had
corroded till they could be picked to pieces with the
fingers. Well, a month- or so before Christmas, Messrs.
Lovely and Crabb, who had tried in vain to get this bat-
tery on terms, bought an interest in it from a shareholder
who had left the district, and started to get ready to con-
centrate ores for the public. They spent over £2OO in
re-tubing the boiler, erecting a concentrating-table, re-
pairing the dam, etc., and were on the eve of starting to
crush,“when Fate, in the shape of the biggest shareholder,
put his foot down on them and would not allow them
to carry on the work any further. Litigation followed ;
the case was decided the other day before Warden
Martin ; and. to the disappointment of 99 per cent, of the
population the obstructing shareholder won. Result:
There are thousands of tons of copper ore on the Mount
waiting treatment, and instead of employment being
found for at least 100 men, there has been a large addition
to the long list of unemployed, while the best battery-
site is occupied by an idle battery. No person wishing
to erect a battery can get a site to suit his purpose so
well, as there is a tram-line running from near the top of
the hill so that ores could be landed from the mines to
the battery at a very nominal cost, and plenty of firewood
and water handy. What a shame that a whole district
has to suffer because one man, not having the interests
of the field at heart, puts bis foot down on an enterprise
that would have done such an amount of good ! —Stamper.
* » *
Perth Morning Herald, which of late has had
occasional signs of a progressive spirit, bewails the fact
that “ Westralia does not reap so much advantage as it
should from its gold-mining industry, owing to the fact
that the bulk of the shares in all the leading mines are
held in London, and most of the profits are paid to people
residing outside the State. Numerous instances have
arisen in which local holders have been deprived of their
interests by the means of hastily-conceived recon-
structions. Scarcely a single reconstruction of a West
Australian mining company has been effected without
some Australian holders being left out in the cold.” It is
a refreshing thing to find one daily paper in Australia
which does not look upon the influx of British capital
(which is only the importation of debt and embarrassment)
as an unmixed blessing.
Warnings of a seriously-overcrowded labor-
market come over from the off-side State. The slump in
lead and copper drove men across in hundreds just when
some of the Kalgoorlie mines were themselves easing off.
* • * *
Now, you couldn’t have it put more delicately
than this, from Coolgardie : —“The King Solomon mine
has closed down for a reason not yet assigned. For
November and December this mine milled 1006 tons of
stone for 2170 z., and from tailings (1800 tons) 1450 z.
were obtained. It would, appear, therefore, that
one of the main factors of the trouble would be the
paucity of gold.” The popular cure out Coolgardie way
is to “ let her on tribute.” Even the dear old Plunder-
derry has gone that way.
m m * »
Zeb. Lane has engineered the purchase of the
Wallsend mine (Westralia) for the Collie Proprietary ; so
the only two coal producers in Westralia are now in the
one lot of deft hands. The output of the two (aided by a
third small show, now out of the business) was in 190'),
118,410 tons ;in 1901, 117,835 tons. The co. (the Collie
Proprietary is a mostly-English co icern) is bringing out
a briquetting plant from Europe ; this will probably end
the excessive waste in carrying the softer stuff. It is a
pure coincidence, no doubt, that Lane completed his deal
just before the report of the Westralian select committee
on local coal was published ; and it is just his sheer good
luck, no doubt, that this committee recommends that
instructions be given for exclusive use of Collie coal on
Westralian railways.
* • • •
Officially, Westralian gold is now reckoned at
£3 13s. an ounce. This is the second change. First it
was £3 165., which in the days of alluvial and surface
slugs was too low ; then for a time £3 175.; and now, in
these cyanide days, 4s. less than that.
• • • •
The big and growing demand for mineral
phosphates to manure poor old South Australia’s de-
teriorating farm-lands has set a few prospecting for the
stuff. Its occurrence isn’t rare, but mostly it is in small
pockets not worth picking. The best are on Yorke’s
Peninsula, and the Govt. Geologist thinks them good
enough to be worked at a profit.
• * • •
Ebagoola (N.Q.): From starting of crushing to
end of last year put through 1770 tons for 50460 z. _ A
second battery is now going up and additions are being
made to the old mill. Some alluvial is now going through
and the return has averaged 300 oz. a month for the last
half-year. Still at present not a dozen men are making
wages at the game.


“Orient to measure” Clothing.
New Patterns of Tweeds and Serge
foe the CELEBRATED
63r
SAC SUITS
To Measure
OPENING.
h
SAMPLES and SELF-MEASUREMENT
FORMS FREE BY POST . . .
pay IP JONES COMPRNy
George and Barrack Streets, Sydney.
HARRINGTON’S
CAMERAS
From ss. up to £5O
EVERY
CA3IEHIST may Compete.
UNITED
PREMO-
VICTOR-EMPIRE
Cash
£6O
Prizes.
PHOTOGRAPHIC
COMPETITIONS
SCHEDULE OF COMPETITION from . . .
HARRINGTON & CO. LTD.
66 Kins' St., Sydney, and
93 Queen St., Brisbane.
Agents
in
all
the
Principal
Centres.
SOCIETY
LEROY
LIQUEUR
BRANDY
Will the churches follow the theatres in
the Rat trade ? A well-known lady musician was
manipulating a Sydney church organ the other
day when she became aware, by various scuttling
sounds, that a member of the bubonic tribe was
joining in the entertainment inside. Some time
later the rat made itself still more obnoxious by
dying, and then the organist took her courage in
her hands and proclaimed that she would discourse
NO RESPONSIBILITY.
CONSTABLE: “Hey! fwhere's yer loights? ” SHAFTER: “ Arst t h’ dri 'er. I'm the ’orse."
no more sweet sounds till the organ left off doing
double duty as a tomb and became an infeoted
area for a time. Weird stories are going about re
dogs which used to catch rats in back yards and
which now shudder and turn pale when they see a
rat and won’t give chase to any of the tribe. Every
second dog-owner in Sydney is beginning to have
a dog of that sort. Cats do not seem to have this
subtle instinct, but the cat-owner is generally a
woman, and women haven’t had their inventive
powers strengthened by a long career of fishing, as
men have.
“ J. 0.” : If the Greenlander was known
to kneel by his icy hearth and ask for an average
temperature of 60 degrees we should say “Poor
savage.” Yet, parsonically, his position is just as
strong as ours when we pray for rain. Why, then
still totters the Request Aquatic on the brink of
the abyss that has practically engulfed all other
Begging in Physios, and why does the illogicalness
of the Supplication Watery survive in these days
of logic? J
• • * •
As a rule, when a bank official is found
bound and gagged on the floor, with a thrilling
tale to tell about four ruffians who came in and
looted the bank, the police, after wandering in
their minds for awhile, come back and arrest that
banker on spec, and look under the bed for the
money. They have just done it again in Tas-
mania, at the same time taking in the local post-
master—apparently suspected of tying up the
banker by friendly arrangement.
• • • *
.Re the Melb. case in which a couple named
Stowers stand charged with a serious crime on a
clue secured from a laundry. A case of bank rob-
bery was sheeted home against two out of three
men the third escaping arrest —at Dunedin, years
ago, on similar information. A well-dressed indi-
vidual called at a small branch bank for change
when, there was only one official in attendance.
An authoritative knock was heard at the side door,
and the clerk attending to it was accosted by an
alleged inspector, who complained loudly about
the filthy state of the premises. He succeeded in
getting the indignant clerk into the yard, a fierce
and insulting discussion ensued, and the official
returned only to find that his cash had disap-
peared. A third man had kept watch in the
street. The bank-clerk’s recollection of the men’s
faces was hazy, but he remembered their new and
elegant linen. So the detectives haunted every
laundry in that economical city of frayed shirts
and well-worn collars, and A ce d every new shirt
which seemed to have cost 114 >re than 3s. 6d. to its
lair. When they had run the third new shirt to
earth they captured the two principal offenders.
* * « »
Cheering extract re a dairy inspector’s
report to Benalla (Vic.) Shire Council:—
Out.of 39 premises inspected not one contained proper
provision for the storage of milk. The Council considered
the statement “ somewhat startling.” Then it postponed
consideration for a month !
The good old postponement!
* * • *
Diminutive Te Aroha, an almost imper-
ceptible flyspeck on the map of Northern M.L.,
burned Campbell-Bannerman in effigy with
riotous enthusiasm lately, owing to his anti-war
opinions—it will be necessary yet for some of these
Jingo towns to burn the Saviour in effigy for His
peace principles. The same town, which is won-
derfully indignant for its size, violently threatened
France over the Dreyfus case.
* • * •
The church is getting down in some places
about as low as it can fall. Anglican Bishop
Wallis farewelled Maoriland’s eighth cohentingent
by telling it that he “thanked God that He
had given us this war to fight, because it had
brought Englishmen together.” A bishop, the
well-paid and absurdly-gaitered preacher of the
gospel of peace, thanking God for war and blood
and butchery is surely a unique degradation.
The falling birth-rate. The census shows
that N.S.W., in 1901, had actually 6004 fewer
children under five years than in 189 L
WOMAN’S FAVORITE PASTIME.
“I am going fishing to-morrow “ What for?” “ Tom !”
Byron, the “Byroniter,” who failed to
fulfil his counsel’s promise that he would experi-
ment with his new vegetable “explosive” before
the jury, at Melb. Criminal Court, was found
guilty of fraud, and sentenced to two years’ im-
prisonment. The depressed patentee carried his
air of mystery into the dock with him. When
asked to show cause why he shouldn’t be cut off
for awhile from his incomprehensible motive-
power,he made a rambling statement to the effect
that his late partner had not paid him all the
money needed to make him (Byron) reveal the
strength of his invention. Also, he assured the
Judge and jury that he was, until recently, a
Government inspector of railways in N.S.W., at a
salary of £75 a month, and would one day enable
the British navy to carry on its business without
the assistance of coal. Byron certainly possesses
a talent for persuading people to take him seri-
ously in some respects, judge Johnston discovered
an off-chance of madness in his method, and gave
orders for the state of his Byronio mind to be in-
vestigated by the gaol doctor.
* * * •
For a long while the lodger has been a
pest, but now he threatens to grow into a positive
danger. Some little time ago, one in Wellington
(M.L.) walked into his landlady’s room after 11
p.m. (the lady was living apart from her husband)
and, picking her up bodily with her bed-linen,
carried her into his own room, where he adminis-
tered a first-class thrashing. The lady, instead
of taking the walloping in a proper, dutiful and
submissive spirit, resisted, whereupon the gentle-
man, very naturally, became exasperated, called
her a cat, and finally opened the window and
threw her out into the street below. She fell on
to a verandah-roof, and rebounded thence on to
some passing citizens. If this sort of conduct
it to be a regular thing among boarders, the
necessity of raising the price of Roast and Roost
is obvious.
* * * *
Coroner Dickson spoke out plainly in
Melbourne lately, at his daily inquest on a
boarded-out infant:—
The matter is a very serious one, and the attention of
the public and the Government should be instantly and
forcibly directed to it. The mortality among these
infants is increasing daily, and there is no reason why
this should be so. Something should certainly be done
instantly to remedy this state of affairs, and the estab-
lishment of a public institution where boarded-out
infants could be treated with a certain degree of uni-
formity is a question that should be taken up by the
Government or some public-spirited persons.
As The Bulletin has pointed out repeatedly, a
State Foundling Home is the only remedy for the
dead baby on the corner allotment; and the par-
sonical element which opposes such an institution
has a good deal of the spirit of the late unlamented
Herod. The idea that virtue is to be encouraged
by baby-murder is too absurd to be taken as a
serious excuse.
• • • •
A certain dramatic lady came from Mel-
bourne to Sydney to found a Ladies’ Club and
coax into it all Sydney’s womankind whose talents
run to the buskin and pen. Latest news is that
the club has suicided in a manner characteristic of
womankind. The easily-flurried sex came to a
sudden conclusion that the club was insolvent, and
separated hurriedly for fear of being put in prison
for debt. Now it discovers that it was solvent
all the time and had thirty shillings to the good.
It had simply added its accounts up wrongly.
It follows that each precipitate lady is going
about blaming the other for the occurrence. When
the club was born, a discussion was held as to
whether men should be admitted, or an Undesir-
able Immigrants’ Bill be passed against the sex.
A lady opened the ball by remarking casually
that the more she saw of men the more she
liked dogs. This animal item was allowed
to drop, and several dames and spinsters of
the type that speaks of its reputation as
if it were something portable, remarked that
they would consider themselves liable to be re-
garded as Lost if gentlemen were admitted to a
ladies’ club of two rooms. To one brilliant mind
it occurred, however, that if men were admitted
ladies could meet their husbands there, and under
the exhilarating expectation of seeing their own
husbands the married ladies revived and the risen
hair of spinsterhood settled down again. After
all this excitement it is lamentable to relate that
the club managed to get itself into rooms where
tall, black-hatted gentlemen appeared at unseemly
hours wanting Flossie (not knowing that Flossie
had moved), and smiled when informed that this
was a ladies’ club, saying that was just what they
expected: Several gentlemen wanted to join if
their wives could be kept out, and a mysterious
personage said he would come if he might appear
under the alias of Bloggs—but why Bloggs he
refused to state.
• * • •
The habit of giving troublesome hospital
patients in custody is spreading. A Melbourne
hospital made itself celebrated by sending for the
police to arrest a delirious inmate on a charge of
“disorderly conduct.” Narrabri (N.S.W.) has
gone one better. An aged patient, in the tailoring
business, wandered out of the hospital and sat
down in front of the premises, and an order was
issued that he shouldn’t be re-admitted, and
that the police should be sent for if he proved
“troublesome.” A policeman was sent for,
though the tailor seems just to have gone on
sitting, and to have given no great trouble in
any other sense ; and finding the patient
in a very dilapidated state the officer carried
him. back to the hospital. Being refused
admittance he humped his burden to the gaol
where “life was found to be extinct’’—partly
through old age. Whether the venerable tailor
only died after arrival at the gaol, or whether
the policeman had been carrying a corpse
around with him the published information
doesn’t show. Anyhow it is an uncomfortable
thought that any one of us, in his old age, may
have his remains held in an upright posi-
tion outside a hospital gate while a policeman
va-mly argues the point about having them ad-
mitted for further treatment and finds that it
can t be done because the remains, in their last
moments, violated rule 857^.
' * * .
At the recent Jingo meeting at Mel-
bourne Town Hall there was in the audience a
silent pair who seemed to understand nothing of
what was going on. They gave no sign of having
an opinion either way, and when the meeting
bellowed “God Save” at frequent intervals the
stoical pair remained silent and uncovered. Then,
in this free and enlightened land, they were set
upon by a howling crowd of well-dressed citizens ;
one was floored, seized by the crowd, and thrown
out of the hall, considerably injured. The other
was saved from damage by being collared by a
brawny policeman and hauled ignominiously to
the door. Even freedom of silence is suppressed
now when the Jingoes are gathered together,
• * * •
The N.S.W, military people—
Whilst observing the day of humiliation and prayer,
did not allow the necessary work of the contingents to
be interfered with.
That was the one work which was thought to be
so pleasing to the Almighty as not to call for
interruption.
* * * *
Sydney looked mournful on Wednesday
last, the day set apart for humiliation and prayer,
for the shops were closed, and the humiliated
ladies who do the Block had put on their best
clothes and gone haughtily to church. But “ down
the harbor” it was a real gala day, Even the
metropolis brightened up considerably in the
afternoon when the ambulance wont round to
remove plague cases. _ A big crowd gathered in
Jritt street, m the anxious hope of catching sight
of a patient as she was carried out, and through
this crowd a fruit-hawker moved selling 24 dis-
graceful bananas (in a bag) for sixpence. Every
tram brought up a fresh contingent of spectators,
and a small posse of police had hard work to keep
the ambulance from being rushed. It was almost
as good amusement as a body-dragging.
THE STEERSMAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
via.
I saw the ship of Time go by,
And God was dreaming at the helm ;
Dreaming of old theology,
Asleep He sailed Pate’s stormy realm.
All sail was set; the masts above
Were bent by giant winds that fled
Across grey seas. A laughing Love
Sang songs unto the Pilot dread.
God slumbered on ; the vessel tacked
And veered from starboard round to port;
The sails were filled and then were backed,
White combers broke the decks athwart.
God was the crew and captain both,
And still He slumbered careless on ;
’Mid happy dreams He laid, unloth
If tempests blew or fair suns shone.
A Love lost holding now and then,
And now and then a Mortal fell ;
The sea was full of graves of men,
The beacon-light ahead was Hell.
Phalanxfed winds march’d o’er the sky ;
Great seas rose up to overwhelm—
I saw the Ship of Time drift by
With God still sleeping at the helm.
GRANT HERVEY.


J.D.K.Z. GIN.
♦
Messrs. JN. DE KUYPEE & ZOON’S famous
Gin has been established no less than 207 years,
and to-day enjoys the distinction of being the
most popular stimulant in the world. Its medi-
cinal qualities surpass those of any other spirit—
where .a health and life-giving stimulant is re-
quired it will do all that the best brandy can do,
but is much superior for liver and kidney troubles.
Those who are particular about the quality of the
liquid they take, ask for J.D.K.Z. Agents for
N.9.W,, LUCAS LOCK & CO., Macquarie-
Piace, Sydney.
AFFAN’S CATARRH REMEDY, Is., 2s. 6d., 55.,
P for all Diseases of the Air Tracts/
I AFFAN’S CATARRH REMEDY,
H Berne Genuine, no one is duped.
R
AFFAN’S CATARRH REMEDY,
is daily Saving: Sufferers from Operations.
AFFAN’S CATARRH REMEDY, sent complete,
• throughout Commonwealth, post 7s. td
RAFFAN’S catarrh remedy,
Rapid and Permanent, for the Ears, Throat, Nose.
RAFFAN, Pharmacist, Melbourne.
ĥ
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers’
Gazette, and Sailing List with map.
TMOS. COOK & SON,
259 Coilins-st., Melbourne. 4 Hunter-st., Sydney.
“ Sherlock Holmes’ ” swift intuition in
following clues and obtaining information secretly
is duplicated in Australia by J. W. Holdsworth
(101 Swanston-st., Melbourne), the expert Private
Inquiry and Next-of-kin Agent. His services are
in great demand by all classes.*
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
Bafest, best, restores the natural color. Look-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
SILVER STAR STARCH.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
ħ
g #»£ ,01lS N ESS
ANP*
|,|VER
h
In the struggle to manufacture war heroes
this country does strange antics. Some time ago
a young Victorian joined the Bushmen’s con-
tingent and went to Africa. It isn’t recorded
that he did anything particular while he was with
the Bushmen, and he soon left them to run a farm.
While peacefully running the farm he went
bathing in a river and was drowned. And the
other day, at St. Kilda, 2000 people gathered to
unveil a monument to the young man who was
quietly drowned on a farm, and Treasurer Turner
delivered a stirring speech about him as one of
those_ who fell nobly and grandly in defence of the
Empire. Victoria produces a hundred more
remarkable heroes than that every year, and the
best that happens to them is that the push gets
up ashilling “soshul.”
* * mm.
The Australian generally flies to his revolver
when he is in love, or is jilted or deceived by his
best girl, but there was a notable instance to the
contrary in the recent inquest in Melb. on the
slaughtered butcher Latham. “ When you con-
fessed your infidelity to your husband, what did
he do ?” asked Elliott’s counsel of the woman in
the case. “I don’t remember,” replied Mrs.
Elliott, “he was busy at the time.” If Ibsen
were to make one of his characters postpone the
consideration of his wife’s unfaithfulness until
after he had hung the beef up in its proper place,
how would the critics view the matter ?
• * * *
The Victorian Inebriates’ Cure Committee
has had about 120 absolutely reliable remedies for
drunkenness offered it to date. The latest is the
cure by hypnotic suggestion, which comes via
America. It is cheap and easy. You catch your
dipsomaniac, fix him with your terrible eye, tell
him he can't taste, touch, or handle, and then turn
him loose. One sample collected from the Yarra
bank has been submitted. He was loaded with
the hypnotic impression that he utterly hated
drink, and, although he has since wandered into a
pub. by force of habit, the spell held good. He
ordered one long beer, lifted it to within an inch
of his chin, and then suddenly set it down again.
“By Jove!” he said, “I’d forgotten. I don't
like beer.” Then he passed out. This was a
man, the committee was assured, who couldn’t be
pulled off a pewter by an ox-team a month ago.
And yet the committee does not seem to think
much of hypnotic suggestion.
CRICKET ITEM.
A neat leg glance by Lil(ley).
At Weld Club, Perth, the servants are
Cninese, even to the billiard-marker. In the
early days of the club the white people available
as servants knew far too much of the history of
the first families, and the bland Chinese was about
the only waiter who could be bossed round by
the rising generation without talking back and
becoming reminiscent to an unpleasant extent.
* * * «
How long ought the paternal strap to be
swung? To two rt. Australian country louts, each
2 1 years old, whom lie had just been compelled to
acquit without any credit to themselves, Chief
Justice Way said he hoped their fathers would
thrash them to within an inch of their lives. The
C.J. himself stands 4ft. llin. at least, and he
probably had no positive evidence that these two
fathers were any larger. If they weren’t, the
small C.J. was simply inciting them to rush on
suicide.
The other day Panton, P.M., sentenced
two men to six months’ hard for throwing-tobacco
over Melb. gaol wall. If either of them had
thrown his wife over he’d have got seven days.
DOUBTFUL IDENTITY.
INEBRIATED PEDGOGUE (not receiving expected
salute from the boys): “Do you know who I
am?”
1ST. BOY: “ Yes, you're the schoolmaster.”
2ND. BOY: “Say, Bill, he's got 'em again. He
don't know who he are!”
The satellites of Preacher Dowie, of
Chicago (U.S.) —the individual who flaps a pair of
red wings on the platform and says he is Elijah—
are deluging Victoria with literature like this,
from Leaves of Healing :
A Corn on tub Tob Healed in Answer to Prayer.
Writing at 1348 Michigan Avenue, Chicago, 111., Miss
Christine Erickson says :
“ I asked you to pray for a very bad corn on my toe
about one week ago, and the pain left it shortly after
that. East evening the corn came out, leaving a large
hole in my toe. I have no pain at all in the toe. I thank
God, and'thank you for praying for me. It was very
painful. It gathered and broke also.”
The corn on Christine’s toe away in Illinois is a
very remote excresence, and a more adjacent
bunion might do more to whoop, up the cause.
But the Dowie cult is growing even on evidence
like that. The rabbit-faced people with the re-
treating chins and the half-rapt, half-silly ex-
pression in their eyes—the people who look like
the dancing dervishes and the 70.1 naked prophets
of Israel, the folk with shambling knees and half-
open mouths and fish-like hands, the semi-
epileptic, the hysterical, the loose-jointed, the
people who nod their heads sideways when they
meet you, the half-finished citizens, the inhabi-
tants who have jumps and Can’t Keep Still, the
galvanic residents, and the fellow-creatures whose
arms are too long for their bodies, and whose
minds are away back in the trees where their re-
mote progenitors cultivated the higher branches of
knowledge—all these make a great congregation.
And when a vulgar charlatan comes to them with
two big wings on and a tale about a corn that was
cured by prayer in America, they say “ Lor ! ” or
some similar feeble exclamation, and fall in.
Two years have made a bit of difference
in the Jingoistic thermometer in Adelaide. Half-
holidays marked the departure of the earlier con-
tingents, and woe to the shopkeeper who traded
during the sacred hours set apart for the tramping
of swaddies through the street. This time there
was no half-holiday. One contingenter owed a
man some money, and promised to meet him next
night and settle up. The creditor kept tryst, and,
after long waiting, a friend happened along.
“ Why, they went away to-day,” said the friend.
“ Bet you drinks they didn’t,” said the creditor.
Then they asked several bystanders, who knew as
little about it as they did of Hittite hieroglyphics.
One man said “Damn 1” which, two years ago,
would have ended in a hospital case. A policeman
was handy ; he would know. “ They didn’t pass
nybeat,” said bobby. And so they kept on in-
juiring, until they found that the contingent had
really drifted away unnoticed, unhonored, un
kissed, without applause or beer, a dry, neglected
band. What a dropping away is here !
» * * •
Two consecutive items from a recent
Sydney D.T. summary column :■ —
The City Coroner yesterday initiated inquests on the
bidies of two women alleged to have died of illegal
operations.
Cardinal Moran yesterday laid a foundation-stone in
connection with the Waitara Foundling Home.
If the second par. mentioned that John See had
set in place the stone of a big State foundling-
asylum, the first par. would soon vanish from the
papers, of which it now forms almost a daily
feature.
According to the published accounts, the
great tenement-houses which O’Sullivan proposes
to build as working-men’s dwellings on the Rocks
(Sydney) are to be dreams of loveliness and
palaces of delight. About 500 families
are to be packed in these huge barracks,
one lot on top of another —but, then,
there are to be bathrooms, laun-
dries, hot-water apparatus, hanging
gardens (vaguely suggestive of
Babylon the Great), and other ele-
ments of Paradise. But, unfor-
tunately, all the hanging gardens
in the world won’t hang up the fact
that, in a cheap neighborhood, pro-
bably one house in every 10 or 20
contains a drunk on Saturday night,
and if you condense these drunks
into a huge tenement, then it is a
very drunk tenement. Also, every
time a plague outbreak causes
some row of terraces in a cheap
neighborhood to be overhauled,
the result is a revelation of
unspeakable filth—and if you
concentrate the filth of a dozen
, terraces into a huge tenement,
it will be a very dirty tene-
ment. The writer knows the
tenement house where it be-
longs — the dirty Glasgow
tenement house. There are,
perhaps, six families on each
flat. Each housewife has to
take her turn of cleaning the
stair, the front entry, and the
front steps twice a week, and
a large policeman indignantly
inspects it, says it isn’t done
well enough, hunts out the
defaulting female, and makes
her do it again, and interferes
in a way that would be more
tlum a policeman’s life is worth
in slovenly, ill-controlled Sydney.
And, despite all interference and super-
vision, the main products of the Scotch tene-
ment house are drunks, and strange, small
animals, and indignant females chastising their
large families on the common stairways. Unless
O’Sullivan has his tenement houses cleaned regu-
larly out of loan funds, his samples will probably
be the same —or thereabouts.
* * * *
Time was in Dunedin (M.L.) when the
“ unco’ guid ” were a power in that city of strong
whisky and Calvinism ; but the times are chang-
ing, judging by the experience of the last session of
the Council of Churches, an institution which
was once a power in the land. The chairman of
the Evangelical Campaign Committee resigned in
disgust at his inability to convene the committee,
which was otherwise occupied; the committees
are mostly laymen, and they won’t leave their
business to hold council nowadays. The rev.
head of the anti-gambling committee regretted
that he had been unable to get his little lot to-
gether ; the meeting had possibly been called on
a race-day when the committee had gone out to
the course to put its little bit on and see that it
got a run for its money. The Bible-in-Schools
junta failed to roll up. The convener of the
Temperance Committee did get a meeting, and it
made him wish he hadn’t; it consisted of two un-
interested-looking men who adjourned early.
Rev. Sinclair called together the Social Purity
committee and found himself the only attendant.
The one bright spot in the dry waste is the
fact that the purest person present was evidently
the Rev. Sinclair. When even Dunedin has thus
backslidden what hope is there that other towns
will slide forward ?
• * • *
Reported, with considerable circumstantial
detail and much horror, by Tas. newspapers, that,
on Governor Havelock’s recent tour through the
island State, the representative of the Cabinet
who acted as escort was, “all through the trip,
deliberately, to say the least, ignored by the lead-
ing members of the party.” Lands and Works
Mulcahy, the Minister in question, is rather a
genial little chap, but a bit fussy, and addicted to
somewhat extravagant fawning on dukes, kings,
emperors, and such. It may be that Mulcahy
overdid himself in obsequiousness, and Governo
Havelock found it necessary to check him with a
frozen stare and a cold, forbidding “ haw.”
The plant houses and fern conservatories
in the Botanical Gardens—one of the most appre-
ciated Sunday resorts of Melbourne—are crumb-
ling to decay with no chance of improvement, for
funds are slow in being allotted to Conservator
Guilfoyle’s department. Some day when Peacock
takes the missus and the kid to see the swans and
the big lily at the Gardens, and finds that they
have perished because the money was wanted for
African farm-burning, and the kid is removed
howling bitterly in disappointment and making
remarks about his father’s policy, a change for the
better may set in.
On the 19th, Thomas Donnelly was tried,
found guilty, and sentenced, at Sydney, for caus-
ing the death of Richard Nagle. Nagle —it was
shown in evidence —was helplessly drunk outside
an hotel in Castlereagh-street, when Donnelly
“ stoushed ” him. The police found Nagle insen-
sible (he had a fractured skull and a lacerated
brain), and took him to Sydney Hospital. A
doctor saw him, dressed his lip, which was cut,
but did not admit him. A constable then took
him in a cab to the lock-up, and Richard Nagle
(with a fractured skull and a lacerated brain) was
put in a cell. Next day, he was fined, and went
home. After several days of intense suffering he
was taken back again to Sydney Hospital, and
was told to wait upstairs, when a doctor would
attend to him. His wife left him for a while, and
when she returned, she found that he had been
allowed to wander away (still with his fractured
skull and his lacerated brain). Nagle did not turn
up again for two nights and a day. On the third
night Mrs. Nagle heard a rap at her door, and
found her husband on his knees, holding his head
with his hands. He was again taken to the
Sydney Hospital. The doctor, who held a post-
mortem on the body three hours after Nagle was
admitted, found the fractured skull and lacerated
brain before mentioned —for the first time ! All
these things considered, was Thomas Donnelly
the only man who should have been in the dock
charged with contributing to the death of Nagle
“OUT OF THE MOUTHS."
“ Ma said would you please come over to dinne
to-night.”
“And did she say anything else”
“Ho. Only pa said you had better come and
get it over.”
AT DARK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Haste, O heart o’ me, darkness grows;
Leave your garden of riotous rose—
Velvet-black are the nets of leaves—
Nets that Night in the tall tree weaves
For the wind-held slave
That sighs to be free ;
And stirs with its wings the silver-white path on the
wave,
The boat of the one-day-old lingering moon, in the sea.
MERIDEN.
A PLAINT FROM THE SOUTH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Wind that blows from the North Country
Bring ye some word of my love to me ?
He sailed away on a feverish quest
Of a yellow dream in the barren West
He sailed away to the wintry South
To try his luck at a river’s mouth.
Then he heard the call of a Northern field
To chance anew what his luck might yield.
And I have not seen his face again—
Though I be waiting, I wait in vain 1
Then bring me, Wind from the North Country,
Some message of love to comfort me !
THE WANDERER.


IF YOU WOULD . .
“Stand on Helvet”
MARK FOY’S
10s. BOOT
A Combination
of COMFORT,
NEATNESS _
and
GOOD WEAR
is
What You Want!
» >:•-
Do you like Coffee ■■
Perfect, Pure,
Fragrant, Exhilarating Coffee
Then Try
TMsinmrs
' Gold
Medal
Coffee Essence
THE VERY BEST
Australian Representatives:
SWIFT & COMPANY,
W 7 SPRING STREET,
SYDNEY.
All Drapers Everywhere.
1"0 INTERSTATE VISITORS and OTHERS.
J. IVTCLUSKY
(of ADELAIDE),
Has RE-BUILT the ROYAL EXCHANGE, SYDNEY,
Corner of George and King Streets,
with Bars and Dining Rooms thoroughly
up to date.
A WOMAN'S LETTER.
Sydney, March 4, 1902.
Mr Dr.vr Arini, —
If you glance through a bundle of late London
newspaper's you will notice that they do not in the
least boom their plague of small-pox. Our papers
give columns, and scare headings, and sub-leaders,
and notes, and boom our plague to the verge of vain-
glory. Every Mayor or other public functionary
who goes on a tour of inspection travels with a full
chorus —aldermen, policemen, reporters, small
boys, and stray dogs. And most of what the prin-
cipals say gets into the printed page, and a fresh
lot of scared readers run away from the city, and a
lot who were coming into it go another way.
Anyhow, the exclamation “ Rats ! ” may no
longer be used to discredit a statement. Other
day in a side street of the city I stopped to hear a
bit of the Word as interpreted by a lunch-hour
preaoher. He was on the plague from a visita-
tion-of-God point of view, and mentioned that the
Almighty had employed rats and mice to spread
the disease amongst those who filched the Ark of
the Lord, and that he was employing the same
means to-day to punish a wicked city. A man on
the fringe of listeners offered the expounder fifty
to one that rats are not once mentioned in the
Scriptures. How the suggestion of a wager
aroused the sporting instinct in the kerbstone
congregation ! But the preacher was not pre-
pared to take the offer, and went on expounding,
probably Ashing that he had brought a con-
cordance.
When the first plague case was taken out of the
Criterion Hotel poor Sally Booth and Ada Lee,
then in good health, were entreated by the
managers of their company (Willoughby and
Geach) to leave the plaguey premises, but Miss
Booth scoffed at the request. She had been in
Bombay with plague all around her, &c., and she
wasn’t taking any now, &c. A few days later and
she and Miss Lee were stricken, and within the
week they were dead. Miss Booth was a grand-
niece of the great Sara Siddons. She was married
many years ago to an actor named Clyndes, who
had appeared in Australia, but husband and wife
had not met for a long time. Miss Ada Lee, a
sister of Jennie Lee, of Jo fame, was engaged to
be married to a man in South Africa. Only a few
days before her seizure she told an intimate friend
she had quite intended to go out to her fianci at
the close of the Arnold season, but that she
thought she would wait till The Wrong Mister
was Righted. Sally Booth’s age, 63, was against
her recovery, but Ada Lee, some 27 years younger,
was in splendid condition and looked fit to fight
all the bubonic microbes in Pitt-street. “ Wrong
Mr. Wright” will open at the Bijou Theatre,
Melbourne, on Easter Saturday. "
Miss Ruth Mackay, the terra-cotta complexioned
Egyptian Iras in “ Beil Hur,” is ruining her
beautiful mousseline-de-soie under-dresses by
wearing them a yard long on the ground in front
as well as at the back. The robs swathes her
ankles so tightly that she looks like a mermaid try-
ing to walk on her tail, and can only take a few
pinched, hobbled steps at a time; but she flops
gracefully, with the lazy grace of a big Persian
cat sampling different cushions. The sheik
Ilderim, with his great voice and fine large oath,
“ by the splendor of God,” is a great favorite with
the audience. Somehow he looks as if he ought
to make love to the Egyptian, and by-and-by
Othello her with his jewelled blade. The few-
lined part of Metellus—the Roman who comes off
deck to tell the Tribune that the pirates are in
sight, is done by a young M.L. singer, Sydney
Bell, who was heard once and remembered favor-
ably on a Sydney concert platform.
From the rising of the star in “Ben Hur” to
the last note of the Hymn of Praise on Olivet,
galleries, stalls and circle of Her Majesty’s
will go unfed. No more oranges, peanuts and
lemonade, or chocolates. No sandwiches and bis-
cuits behind the scenes. Any rat coming into the
theatre henceforth will have to bring his own
rations, like the crow that flew across the Shenan-
doah valley after the U.S. civil war. Even the
make-up vaselines and lards are now kept in ver-
min proof boxes. And every night after Romans,
Jews, Australians and all fancy nationalities have
departed, burning brimstone makes the theatre
smell like a terrestrial edition of the Pit.
Now the railway people know that a Cardinal’s
going away will draw a bigger crowd than the
Gov.-Gen.’s, or the Commonwealth Commandant’s
departures. What did that crowd of several
thousand persons which swamped the Redfern
platform on the occasion of Cardinal Moran’s
departure expect ? If the majority was of the
faithful, then doubtless pure love and affection
prompted the rush. But one has told
me that quite half the crowd had never seen
a Cardinal before, and was amazed to find a
dignified elderly gentleman instead of a stained-
glass window personage with no boots and a nim-
bus. in lieu of a hat. Scenes of hysterical
excitement occurred among women passengers
who could not get through the crowd to the
express platform until a body of police carried
them in. The State Premier and members of the
Ministry called and said “olive oil” before the
Cardinal left the presbytery.
The Great Smoky Mountains are a study in
black and tan, charcoaled tree-trunks, and yellow-
ochre foliage. If that old wooden approach that
precedes the Nepean River bridge is safe the
Commissioners ought to make the fact known.
Nervous or strange travellers nearly, get fits
just before that span is reached. An old traveller
on the line looks round the carriage and explains
“ they always slow down here, this patch isn’t
considered safe.” And he gets up and hangs out
of the window, watching for the timbers to give
way, and forecasting details of what would
happen, if they did. Presently he resumes his
seat with a sigh, as if disappointed that
he has again missed being a mangled remains.
Sparks from the railway engines start most of the
fires on the mountains. From Wentworth Falls
to Katoomba hundreds of navvies are working at
the duplicate line ; their camps are by the road-
side or down amongst the bush off the main
tracks. Some of the men are young settlers from
drought-stricken centres; they can do nothing
with their land till rain falls. But these are easily
picked out from the men who have been navvying
since boyhood, and whose fathers, perhaps,
navvyed before them. The man with the hoe
looks a G-reek warrior by the side of the man
with the shovel.
In a letter to Mr. See, the Gov.-General says
that he and Lady Hopetoun hope to be settled in
Sydney by the time the State Gov. arrives, and
that “ they will be delighted to receive Sir Harry
Rawson and party as their guests, to enable them
to look round and get completely settled in their
new home.” But the Rawsons ought to be able
to do their own “ looking round,” for “ Cran-
brook ’’ will be quite ready for them, down to
fresh violets on the dressing-tables and the after-
noon tea-kettle just on the boil. It is not likely
that they will be dumped down on the wharf, and
that Sir Harry will have to go house-hunting
whilst Lady Harry minds the luggage, the poodle
and the parrot. Also, “Lord Hopetoun wishes
to place his carriage and other things at the dis-
posal of the State Governor.” “ Other things ”is
good and comprehensive.
The convent at Wyalong was discovered to be
in flames at three a.m. the other week and,
according to the telegraphist, the nuns were in
some danger, for the building was encircled by a
wire net fence, on the inside of which the ladies
were huddled, unable to escape. This idea of a
nun-proof fence is funny. How had they got in ?
Or was the guard put up after they were in ? And
did the tradesmen throw their supplies over
the fence ? And were the children who attended
school thererthrown over also ? It is to be hoped
that those convents with nun-proof fences will
take a lesson from the Boers, and in future keep
a warrigal or two to stampede against the en-
trenchments in case of fire.
Awhile ago there was a fashionable wedding in
one of the States. But the amber of the bride-
groom’s moon was spoilt by a butterfly, who
would not fold her wings and keep quiet without
a big money inducement. The money was paid to
a, solicitor acting for the ’fly, and now comes the
news that he has flown with the whole amount.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“Politicians, actors, and a great muster of
smart people saw the beginning of the final test-
match at the M.C.C. grounds, on Friday after-
noon. Several unremarkable-looking members
of ‘ Sweet Nell ’ watched the play from under
the awning—the dress-circle of the grounds.
Tasmanian ex-Premier Braddon, looking less
shaggy than usual in his locks and very stooped in
the shoulders, moved round in a mystified manner
under the pilotage of the brisk but old-fashioned
figure of ex-Premier Siiiels. Sliiels is much the
younger of the two, but he is ten times more ‘ ex.’
than Braddon, despite his semi-ancient youth.
Better-not Wally had a front seat in a sunny part
of the reserve. Mrs. Philson—the only other
member of the Governor-General’s party present
—was in dowdy garb with Mrs. Dunbar Hooper
—a smarter vision in cream. Up aloft in the
stand, out of everyone’s range, were perched the
Governor Clarkes. There was a vast muslin
brigade of whom Miss Vera Clarke, Miss Daisy
Chomley, Miss Rita Kiddle, and Miss Guthrie
had the best claims to smartness. Miss Fisken
was one of the neatest of corseted figures in a
wonderfully-fitting frock of grey voile, slashed
with lace hurdles.
“ The M.C.C. girls made a bid for fresh laurels
in rose bloom and smart millinery at the test-
mitch. The frocks were of familiar summer
build, airy about the neck, scant about the hips,
large in the waist. But the top rigging was all of
autumn architecture. The majority consisted of
soup-plate hats abruptly banked up in the neck
with plots of bright blooms, or bunches of radiant
ribbon—nothing breaking in on the front blank-
ness. W^it o gossamers—dear friends of the bad
complexion ! —covered every second face. The
Jewish maiden was everywhere—dressed in the
height of fashion, with jingling wrist and neck
trinkets, and generally inviting attention to her
luxurious appointments. Captain Maclaren is
not popular with the Melbourne crowd. He puts
on side and arrogates much to himself. Gunn
does not go off well. He is shy, and shrinks from
feminine advances. Braund is considered a
‘ splendid chap,’ and is a tremendous favorite with
a certain Toorak set.
“Small boys have their uses, after all. They
often serve as the sprat to catch the mackerel of
the smart girl. At the cricket matches it has been
sport to watch the ingenuous youth make overtures
to the champions of the pitch, and after some con-
versation (?) tow them over to the party of guile-
less angels who were so impatiently waiting for
the prize. One tall, skinny youth, well-known to
all the tea rooms, makes himself invaluable in this
way. He touts for “good things” in modern
hims, 'and then engineers them to the company of
some of his smart girl friends who call him a dear
boy, and pet him ridiculously, and turn their
backs immediately to bask in the light of the in-
troduced one. Can American ‘cuteness’ surpass
the Melbourne girl’s guile ? She would turn even
the pips and stem of the fruit of knowledge to
good account.
“ The fierce sun that beat upon the first of the
Autumn races at Flemington called for universal
light raiment. The transparent yoke and sleeves
flourished, and the protective gossamer was
first favorite of complexion covers. The Guv’nor
Clarkes and the Commandant Huttons were the
stars of the occasion—but they failed to dazzle the
crowd. The theatrical element prevailed for
dressiness and interest. Nellie Stewart was a
strange, weird, wonderful vision in cream—a
curious garb buttoned up the front, and spreading
smoothly over hips and back in a way that made
people tremble for its staying powers. A stoop
forward —and the tragedy of the day would have
occurred. A very shady hat was abloom with
lilac ; Nellie’s day complexion is a marvel in flesh
tints, but one is never vouchsafed a satisfying
look at it. Lauri had Carrie Moore, very sallow-
looking in strawberry and black, at one elbow, and
Maud Chetwynd, in shining white silk, at the
other. Florence Young was buttoned up the back
in shrimp pink, and her figure was tightly laced.
Little Sheridan cut the dash of the male mum-
mers. He was in large checks, the fancy vest
being elaborately braided. Johnnie Sheridan has
a lusty taste for suit trimmings.
“Sassiety was in full force. Mrs. Harry
Osborne boasted the complexion of the day.
When everyone had given up the task of powder-
ing and trying to keep in crimp, the jolly member
of the Madden family showed an unruffled pink
and white complexion! a coiffure in crimp, and a
cool, calm brow. Her duck-egg green garb helped
the crisp effect. Miss Ruby Madden simmered in
white. Miss Muriel Williams tossed a saucy head
that was mounted in nutmeg tulle and pink daisy
punctuations, and which rose out of a collarless
white muslin frock. Mrs. Robert Power carried
the gamp of the day—a colossal affair in green
and white linen, edged with a kind of pillow-slip
frill. Miss Mars Buckley sported the latest of
London conceits—a curious grey linen elaborated
with eyelet holes.
“Col. Tom Price’s daughter—Mrs. Ainslee
Mills, was a wintry figure in heavy grey
freize and a fiery hat of squat shape in scar-
let velvet. Mrs. Mills, senior, was the grandest
dame on the terrace. She wore a superb gown of
cornflower blue voile, with plenty of silk beneath,
and ornamental strips of expensive-looking lace.
A toque, showing blush roses in front,, was
skewered at a very smart angle. Mrs. Roy
Greene was fair to look upon in white, with a
tricky hat slapped back from the face. Mrs.
Lawson blazed in blue, and Mrs. Ernest Raleigh
appealed to a world that likes pallor and lean
lines in a frilly garb of cream, with flowing angel
sleeves and sac blouse of Oriental silk and lace.
Several bookies’ wives and two or three dress
designers flashed on. the terrace now and then in
raiment that surpassed the sumptuous Solomon
in all his glory. One of these wept copiously at
losing on all the events of the day. She appeared
unashamed on the terrace, with swollen eye-lids
and red nose, dragging disconsolately after her a
train of chiffon and flowered silk worth a power
of money.
‘ ‘ The Hobart season for Melbourne and Sydney
girls has resulted in the expected crop of engage-
ments. It was a foregone conclusion that the
naval youths of the Squadron should fall victims
more readily than the wily landsmen to the en-
chantments of that determined army of sirens.
And they have—two cases being fatal, the engage-
ments duly ratified. One of the successful sirens
gave a Thanksgiving Service in the form of a tea-
room party the other afternoon, all her less fortu-
nate friends being expected to make merry that
unto one net a man had come. There is no more
difficult task in the world than to try and see
happiness, as Father Shakespeare pointed out,
through another’s eyes—especially through a
woman’s eyes. The girl who, after a campaign of
failure, can look bright and pleasant at the cele-
bration of another’s success is a dark dissimulator.
“ Talking of tea-rooms. This summer season
has destroyed the ice-cream and soda-squash con-
sumption. The days have been too cool for iced
drinks, and yet too warm, in a way, for afternoon-
tea. So the tea-tables have been deserted, and
one well-known place in the Block, run by a
young and winsome widow, has been actually
closed up. Quite sad to see the windows in mourn-
ing behind bereavement shutters—windows once so
gay with bright draperies and the glimpses they
revealed of the animated scenes within. At an-
other establishment the band has been struck off
the list of attractions for economical reasons, and
luxuries have been cut down on all sides in these
bun coops. However, the Melbourne tea-room
will always be a going concern as long as the cuff-
and-collar brigade is attracted by the pretty
Hebes who do the table-waiting.
‘ ‘ Hughie Trumble has good taste and as dis-
criminating an eye. for a figure as for a cricket-
stump. Miss Florence Christian, whom he is going
to marry on the 12th, is a pretty little girl, and a
moneyed little girl, in height about passing
Hughie’s elbow. But Hughie is such a towering
figure—over six feet two when standing up to
every inch. As a rule, he stoops, and slouches
rather in walking. One imagines how awkwardly
the favorite cricketer will face the chant of ‘The
Voice that breathed o’er Eden’ for the greatest
test-match of all. Fortunately, the ceremony
comes off at a distant -church, or the Melbourne
populace would about crowd Hughie out from his
own wedding. The Christians are wealthy people,
and have travelled a. bit. It was on the last
voyage of the Australian Eleven from ’Ome that
Hugh Trumble met his fate, and shyly returned
to Melbourne branded ‘ Engaged.’
“The engagement of Miss Ethel Fitzgerald,
eldest daughter of' Melbourne’s most important
surgeon, to Commander Lumsdaine, of the Royal
Arthur, is the most interesting of all recent con-
tracts. Miss Fitzgerald is her father’s right hand
—a sensible sort of maiden who plays tennis well,
makes pets of poodles, but otherwise adorns
‘ Rostella, ’ the well-appointed residence of surgeon
Fitzgerald, with her practical young person in a
way that is quoted as a model of good manage-
ment by all the smart mothers about. Very black
hair, a pair of grey eyes, and a pale complexion
are sufficient to cause her friends to talk of her
Irish beauty.
Perhaps it is as well the dowager of ‘Clive-
den is off to Europe, for some Melbourne people
are complaining that she sets too exalted a value
on her natty self. The latest royal act of the
dowager s was to summon stage-manager Tapping
after the performance of 1 Sweet Nell ’ to express
her approval of the dainty little show.
“Melbourne Sassiety is quite agitated that a
cousinly couple of much prominence have ‘ made
it up again.’ The climax was reached at ‘Sweet
Nell the other night, when the wealthy moth
handed up a posy tied with flaming ribbons to
match his relative’s gorgeous gown.
Benjamin Hoare, the churchy-looking Age
leader-writer, is going to try matrimony
again. The lady is an old friend and playmate—
or something of the sort, from Geelong— Miss
Emily Tuite. As both are members of the Lenten
religion, the knot-tying has to hang over till
Easter Tuesday, when the season of sackcloth and
ashes is done with. The lady is of towering
height, and healthy Irish spirits.
“In ‘Sweet Nell,’ it seems rather a weak point
to make Lady Gastlemaine and the Duchess of
Portsmouth (Gwynne’s rivals in Charles’ favor)
such unattractive frumps. It would be all the more
to Nell’s credit if she could beat two charming and
wily women on their own ground. As it is. her
victory is cut-and-dried from the start. Always
so in plays! In ‘Sans Gene,’ Napoleon’s sisters
try to crush the ex-washerwoman, but she is
given all the fat by the play-wright in the shape
of telling things to say, while the Buonoparte
sisters are doomed to sputter spitefully like angry
cats. Also Sans-Gene is radiant in white satin,
diamonds and golden wig, while her tormentors
are pallid in funereal splendor and inky Empire
cork-screws to match. A stage conversational
duel between three rivals for a king’s favor would
be warm work if the combatants were all treated
fairly. Castlemaine and Portsmouth must have
been attractive or Charles would have sent them
packing, and, as a matter of fact.it was the Duchess,
not Nell Gwynne, who hung weeping over the
king’s death-bed. '
“ I learn that the local clergy resent the present
Nell Gwynne cult. The vision of a historic
sinner, enthroned at a king’s left hand, in a heaven
of haberdashery, is apt, in the case of slie-
beholders, to draw the sting from sermons about
the Unprofitableness of sin and the alleged fact
that iniquity is a drug in a falling market.
“One of the biggest fish hooked to date by
‘Rita,’ of the Herald, with her artful little bait
of a letter asking ‘ Society women ’ for their views
on domesticity and the kitchen-range, is Mrs.
Claude Macdonald, of Wantabadgery, N.S.W.,
formerly Miss Green, the Society clothes-builder,
who good-naturedly penned a gratis col. on how
she thinks the daily tucker ought to be served.
Mrs. C.M.’s advice is, briefly summed up: ‘Keep
up to date ; get a move on you, and don’t be
wedded to the same meals year in, year out.’
‘ln most houses they dine to-day as yesterday
and many yesterdays. Every day new notions
are introduced in the shops ; new potato chippers,
new boning knives, new ice-cream freezers.’ The
only drawback to above good advice is that the
said luxuries and conveniences are only within
reach of the lofty circles. The humble thousands
battle along as best they can with six injured-
looking saucepans and a canvas butter cooler.
And while meat is at current rates, they’re only
too glad to keep the bones inside to make the
joint look larger, and they buy their ice-cream
by the penn’orth from the remote descendant of
Julius Csesar with the gaudy cart.
“ A quite large audience turns up now in Melb.
Town Hall on organ-playing days. Organist
Mansley _ Greer, who was pedalling away at the
cross-grained old instrument on Thursday last,
had a numerous clientele listening to him.
Mansley G. is choir boss at Wesley church; young,
slim and enthusiastic. His hearers were mostly
men. Most extraordinary thing, men shunt
all kinds of music but that of the organ. It’s the
downright hard graft of playing it that appeals to
them, 1 believe. They look up to the organist as
they do to Clem Hill or Trumble.
“ The charming manners and sensitive delicacy
of the Woman’s Hospital Committee led two of
its members into serious trouble once. After
marching through a ward and putting Mary Jones
and Ellen Brown on the well-oiled rack of inquiry,
they graciously smiled on Mrs. Smith, and
bustled out, announcing in loud and shocked tones
what a shame it was that that nice little woman
should have to herd with these disgraceful
creatures. It was a mere detail—but Mrs. Smith
had been some years a widow. Great are the uses
of a prefix !
“ What do you think of this as the very cream
of social amenities? The other day, a milk-
vendor’s wife called at the house of some new resi-
dents in her locality, and politely solicited their
custom, but was told by the maid that another
milkman had already secured the order. ‘ Then,’
rejoined the cream canvasser, ‘give your mistress
my At Home card, and tell her that I shall be
glad to forget everything but the fact that we are
neighbors. I hope she will call. Thursday’s my
day. Good afternoon ’; and the lady with the
social intentions made a dignified retirement from
the suddenly-slammed door. And this in Mel-
bourne, where the Toorak dame haughtily passes,
with a vacant stare, her own face artiste and the
tailor who has been handling her figure for cloth
creations.
(Continued on page 28.)


h
BULLETIN SUBSCRIBERS-^—
Who are unable to read small printed matter, or to see fine
stitching or writing, whose distant vision is dull and who suffer
from persistent headaches or pains after close application—you
may rest assured that you are suffering from Ageing or
Impaired Vision, and Need Glasses. You should visit
us, and have your sight scientifically tested, and be supplied
with Glasses adapted to your individual case.
TO COUNTRY READERS who cannot visit us personally, we send, Post Free to any address, with lull instruc-
tions and Price List, our marvellously-accurate and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURING PATENT. By its use
you can Test your own sight and determine for yourself the style and quality of the glasses you may need.
Write for it to —
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Consulting: Optician,
371 George St., Sydney,
next door to the A. J.S. Bank.
King and George Streets.
And at 232 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, opposite Aqe Office.
Related was it of Jay Gould (?) that his
handwriting was so bad as to be illegible to the
old man himself. A letter of his replying to an
application for employment on one of his numerous
railways was on the strength of the signature
used by the recipient as- a pass over the line for
many years. In later days the typewriter has
done much to prevent fraud and mistakes
formerly traceable to bad writing. Had J.G.,
like The Bulletin, used a “New Century”
machine his reputation as a letter writer would be
better to day. New Century Typewriters, the
latest from Yankee-land, are sold only by the
United Typewriter and Supplies Co., of Sydney,
Melbourne and Perth.*
Australia.
Lightest Wines
n
Supplied to H.R.H. the Duke of York,
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Westralian Worker alludes to a well-
known N.S.W. politician as “ this miserable
convex-bellied swamp-eel.”
It is a certainty that, as High Commis-
sioner, Forrest, K.C.M.G., would be the worst
form of Jingo greaser. Wise on the other hand,
is too slippery to be reliably greasy.
Sydney Rabbi Davis spread himself into
Hebrew poetry in his prayer for rain. It was
distinctly dithyrambic, but, after soaring among
“ the Pleiades ” and the “ bands of Orion,” and so
on, came down to Earth with a heavy thud by
addressing the Lord “ who stayeth the bottles of
Heaven.”
Clement Wragge gave as his N.S.W. fore-
cast for the 24 hours after Humiliation Day:
“No data available owing to the observance of
the Day of Humiliation and Prayers for rain.”
On the Saturday following he predicted “ probable
rains working from the Southward owing to purely
physical conditions .”
Melbourne University embezzler, Dickson,
was no exception to the rule among neat young
men who fall from grace—he kept a straight
upper lip until the last moment. Only when be
was handcuffed to a particularly uncouth specimen
of criminal with an artful dodger leer did it seem
to dawn on the sprucely tailored accountant that
things were not as they had been.
Radical politicians, and politicians who
want the Radical - vote, have long realised the
value of a familiar name—“ Toby ” Barton and
“ Charley ” Kingston, for instance. But here and
there the more daring Laborite goes one better,
and signs himself that way. Thus Broken Hill’s
municipal notices—Broken Hill still has a Labor
Mayor—are just now subscribed “Tom Jackson.”
Charles Lillywliite, wrongfully arrested in
Maoriland as a murderer and dragged to England,
where he was set free after a long wait, has
(chiefly owing to the fact that lie is a naturalised
U.S. citizen and had the good offices of the
A DIFFERENT SECT.
P.M. (local Wesleyan light, to witness):
“I thought you were a Christian?"
WAR HOP (hoping to propitiate the beak):
“No feah! Me no Klistian—me
Wesleyan, allee same you! ”
American Ambassador at a time when England
is falling on Uncle Sam’s neck) managed to squeeze
out £6OO and a free return passage to M.L. by
way of compensation.
Old Samuel Davenport still appears in
public, although he was 84 on March 5. He
was called to act as one of the vice- regal
advisors in 1845, on© of his colleagues being
Charles Sturt, the celebrated explorer. His wife,
whom he married early in 1842, died last month.
Davenport is the only surviving member of the
Legislative Council which, on J an. 2, 1856, passed
the S. A. Constitution Act.
Dr. A. Oronhyatekha, Australian manager
of the Independent Order of Foresters’ Life
Assurance Office, has been gaoled for three
months, in Melbourne, for assault on his_ type-
writer girl. The Mohawk gentleman defended
himself vigorously, but possibly the jury had read
the advertisement about the 1.0. F. ’s alleged
£1,030,000 surplus, and had lost faith in every-
body responsible for the concern.
A case came before a Melb. court, the other
day, which resembles in a small way that of
Peace, the famous English burglar, who lived in
a mansion and was looked up to by his neighbors.
There were 30 charges of larceny from backyards
against Leonard Fairhall, who was leading a re
putable life as a hard-working gardener in receipt
■" of good wages, and who not very long ago was
warmly recommended for the position of verger
at a suburban church. His dual career was cut
short, and for the next two years the only yard he
will be in will be the one at the gaol.
Robert Byrne, aged 80, and once worth
£200,000 or so, applied for a certificate of dis-
charge in Melbourne Insolvency Court last Friday.
Byrne was Treasurer for a few weeks m Mac-
pherson’s Ministry in 1869-1870, but his consti-
tuents ejected him when he went for re-election,
and Graham Berry succeeded. The Ministry
only stood for seven months in all. That was
Byrne’s only experience of what the late Parkes
used to describe as “hoffis.” He left politics, and
Berry stayed in them, and the results have been
none too good in either case.
“Cover the bald and cure the deaf,”
writes The Bulletin’s London correspondent,
“ and kudos and coin shall be thine for ever more,
for your patrons will include, on proof of genuine
efficacy, the King and Queen. It seems sure to
certainty that both these irritating cursed pin-
pricks of life to-day will be removed at no cen-
tury-hence fieriod, and the rewards will be
enormous. Queen Alexandra can hear well by
telephone or electrophone, and through the latter
she enjoys the opera, as do hundreds of the
wealthy afflicted here. There’s a hint to elec-
tricians.”
A curious commentary on the present state
of law was that given at the trial of Dickson, late
accountant of Melb. University, for fraud. While
the first charge was under consideration, Dickson
and Dickson’s counsel made strong assertions of
innocence, claiming that all the manipulation of
the books and documents was merely to cover
careless bookkeeping. “From beginning to end
nothing was further from my mind than to rob the
institution,” concluded the prisoner. The jury re-
turned a verdict of guilty, and Dickson, who had
just asserted that “From beginning to end, etc.”,
promptly pleaded guilty to three further charges
of embezzlement and larceny.
Judge Johnston, now permanently raised
to Yic. County Court Bench, is a son of an ex-
proprietor of the Argus, and to that respectable
journal’s influence he owes much of his success in
life. He is one of the stolidest and most plodding
men who ever made a jury wish it was dead. He
always held the Crown briefs, and now gets a
position over the heads of many senior lawyers,
who, in the present “rockiness” of the “profesh,”
would have jumped at a place worth £l5OO a
year, with a prospective pension of £750. John-
ston’s only political escapade was an attack on
North Gippsland—Allan M‘Lean’s stronghold ;
but the Hielander defeated him by nearly three
to one.
A Sydney suburb was suddenly aroused
the other Sunday about 7 a.m. by a fusilade of
pistol shots. The natives, disturbed from their
rest, rushed to their doors and windows and be-
held an excited M.L. A. in pyjamas hanging on to
his front gate busy emptying a revolver, ap-
parently at the houses opposite. Investigation
proved that his target was a dog fight. Next
door’s mastiff was engaged in making mince-meat
of his pet fox-terrier, and he adopted this method
of rescue. None of the shots went near their
mark, and no casualties were reported, except
from the firing line which tore its pyjamas on the
gate. The disgusted neighborhood, which ex-
pected a tragedy, went sulkily back to its Sunday
morning nap sarcastically recommending the
M.L.A. to get a pom-pom to protect his pup.
Some years back, C. 0. Kingston was told
at an election meeting by a swan-gizzarded bank-
clerk that he (Kingston) had “a neck to come
there for votes.” Kingston regarded him for a
second with That Look; then spoke out: “My
friend, had I a fathom of uncomely turkey gobbler
larynx like yours, I’d have tied a slip-knot in it long
ago and hanged myself for the benefit of the land-
scape ! ” The discussion then ended.
A now intensely dignified State official
was very raw material when first appointed as a
wild and whirling youth in the N.S.W. public
service. He announced an ex-Premier as “a
bloke out here to see you, sir.” Shortly after he
staggrered the very great boss potentate of the
department by breathing over his shoulder in a
leery, confidential manner : “A young lady out-
side wants to see you, sir; not a bad-lookin’ little
piece, either.” The “piece” happened to be the
boss’s daughter and the youth nearly ended his
Eublic career there and then. If he had he might
ave taken the downward road that leads to
driving a cab instead of rising to be one of the
most inaccessible dignitaries in the service.
John Lucas, M.L.C., who has passed
away, at 84, was a sort of colossal obelisk of old
Sydney. Forty years ago he was a political wire-
puller of the cutest kind. He was a cousin of
George Lucas, who died lately at 87, and also a
cousin of ex-Premier James Squire Farnell. John
Lucas decorated Parliament more or less since
1860, and he once held office for two years, as
Minister for Mines under Robertson. He was
not invited to hold a portfolio again. For the
last dozen years at least John Lucas would have
been impossible as an elected representative of
the people—he never adapted himself to the new
order of things. Yet he made or hindered laws
for N.S.W. in the Upper House for 22 years
without the people’s permission being asked.
One of the most paragraphed persons
to take part in the Nelson (M.L.) Diamond
Jubilee celebrations lately was Julia Martin,
the “Grace Darling of Maoriland.” She
was allotted a carriage in the procession
and was presented to visiting notables. In
’63 the brigantine Delaware was wrecked
during a gale on the rocky coast between
Pepin’s Island and Wakapuaka, and there
appeared to be no hope of saving the crew.
The mate tried to swim through the surf to
the shore, but was dashed back on board
again more dead than alive. Five Maoris
appeared on the beach, four men and a
young woman, and, led by the latter, they
swam to a rock near the ship. A line was
thrown them and they swam ashore with
it. Two held the shore end while the other
three, including Julia, swam out and as-
sisted the seamen ashore. A gold watch
and £2O were bestowed on Julia by an
admiring country.
“ Allarym ” : Bulletin says Reid is
a failure as leader of the Opposition. He
may be, but cocky little M‘Millan is worse.
M‘Millan, when acting leader, constantly
sets the teeth of the democratic section of
his party on edge and causes much squirm-
ing in the Labor corner. A N.S.W. Foreign-
trade Labor Representative told writer that
M‘Mi I lan’s overbearing high - and - mighty
condescending treatment of Laborites
nearly caused a rupture on several occa-
sions. Also the absentee-importer’s dele-
gate has an aggravating habit of saying:
“ The proposal is preposterous. It is abso-
lutely opposed to reason and commonsense.
No sane man could vote for such a thing.”
It isn’t so much the saying of this as the
nasty way he says it. A sour, cocky little
man, who wears his silk hat on his left ear, and
who looks down with a shudder on the bulk of his
own party from the pinnacle of his imported bale
of calico isn’t likely to be popular.
David Syme’s son, Geoffrey, prospective
literary director of Melb. Age, who has been for
twelve months broadening his views by travel,
has selected an English bride for himself. Geof-
frey spent much time doing work for a London
paper in order to pick up English press methods.
He is one of three sons whom David keeps at the
Age grindstone.
Arthur Griffith, M.P. (N.S.W ) frightened
the wits out of his first Labor audience with his
dandified airs, but the Waratah workmen sat
tight with their eyes shut, and heard sincerity from
the young fop. But if they could have applied
the Hare system of voting to him, they would
have rejected his three-inch collar, and drawn a
blue mark across his shirt-front, and indignantly
thrown out his tan boots, and sent him into the
House clothed only in his native diffidence. Now
they don’t mind, for with all his frill Griffith is
one of the best—as sturdy a radical as there is in
any Australian Parliament.
A well-known Yic. squatter, who recently
wrote the Lands Department to pay off some
money due, began civilly enough by saying,
“Enclosed please find my cheque for
£154 17s. 6d.” Then his feelings got the
better of him, and the good old man of
acres added, “You and your d d offi-
cers can conie and take the blanky land if
you like! ”
King Edward ought to confer a
knighthood at least on the journalist who
started the audacious fiction that the
Prince of Wales (late Jook of York)
“prepares all his own public utterances
down to the smallest particulars.”
Maorilaud is beginning to fancy that some-
thing will have to be done to Judge Conolly, a
learned and irritable gentleman in nis 81st year.
Conolly appears to suffer from a conviction that
everybody is guilty, and from great indignation
because other people don’t always see it.
W. Dick, M.L. A., Newcastle, went straight
from the University (where he attained honors in
mathematics and science) to wharf-laboring.
After several months hard graft he started a
private school and had one pupil the first six
months ! A free night school for men, which he
ran at the same time, was crowded, and one of his
pleasantest recollections is the polite way “the
boys ” spat into their hats rather than dirty the
school floor.
Premier Seddon’s enemies may scoff, but
the Bun Tuck man is still a power. During one
of his recent tours he received a telegram which
read : “ Registrar’s office closed for last two days.
Cannot get married. Please fix matter up.” Bun-
Tuck did it —that Registrar opened suddenly.
Somewhere in the Otira Gorge a telegraph mes-
senger overtook him with another missive : “My
husband enlisted in Bth contingent. Stop the
brute.” Bun-Tuck did it. At Kumaraa wire
arrived, evidently from an enemy: “Wife bad
twins to-day—both girls; wanted a boy. Please
arrange.” But this time Bun-Tuck didn’t do it.
Perth has its “ disgustingly rich ” man,
too, in George Shenton “ Knight,” as he delights
to be addressed. He has an income of =£20,000 a
year, and candidly admits he doesn’t know how to
get rid of it. He gives lavishly to the religious
body to which he belongs—the wealthy Wesleyan
sect—but he does not entertain nor help up strug-
gling charities or suffering individuals. It is told
of him that he bought a carriage and a coat of
arms, which latter his brother proposed to use as
being the “ family escutcheon.” “Yer can’t do
that, Ned!” said Georgie. “Oh! yer can’t do
it, yer know. Leastways, not unless you have a
bar sinister on it.” A few people laughed when
they heard this, and the rest of Perth ran to look
up the bar sinister in its dictionary to see where
the joke came in.
Premier Seddon, in his fallen estate, thus
described himself at a recent gathering :
He then went on, to say he was becoming conservative
in his old age, but his conservatism was really the
broadest liberalism, and wholly in the interests of the
Empire.
This, then, is the end of the career of Australia’s
most prominent democrat. He is becoming con-
servative in his declining years, and is “ wholly in
the interests of the Empire.” The interests of
Maoriland, which he is paid to consider, have
dropped out of his range of vision. A prancing
THAT OTHER FREE TRADE FATMAN CRY.
THE SHEPHERD : "And what brought you here,
my friend? ”
“I am a victim of over-legislation! ”
old man, who rules a population that would about
make a second-class British city, trying to pose as
a Bismarck or a Pitt, making more war orations
than there are men in all his contingents, hustling
up and down his little State like a breathless ant
sprinting up and down its blade of grass, dropping
the democraticprinciplesof alifetimeinthefussand
heat and struggle of despatching another two men
and a dog, and behaving generally like a church-
warden in armour or a grocer at the mouth of a
disused cannon ! It is a sorrowful and undignified
close to a great career. Seddon is a weary old man
now who doesn’t get his proper sleep through
flying from place to place, getting off the same
old oration about the “Empire”—an old man
who is talking himself to death—a Wandering
Jew whose whitened beard looms through the
dusk on every high-road as he sprints sleeplessly
along like an unquiet spirit to make his great
speech about the Empire all over again, with
hardlv anybody listening all the while. And to
Joe Chamberlain, who runs England now, he is
just about as important as one of the screws that
Joseph used to make in Birmingham.
N.S.W. police force has numbered two
baronets among its members—John Cecil Read
and Frederick Pottinger. Read arrived from
England in an inspectorial
capacity; Pottinger as
SENATOR BARRETT.
a n ordinary
bobby.
Brisbane is
haunted by a
British “hero
of civilisa-
tion,” Imperial
war - pensioner
PaddvOonnell,
aged 79, and
living a weary
existence in a
hot land on the
munificent sum
of tenpence per
day. He has
21 years’ good
service to his
credit, and
various
wounds re-
ceived in India
and at Inker-
man. Patrick
petitioned the
War Office for
an additional
twopence per
day (allowed
under excep-
tional circum-
stances), but
my Lord was
as adamant.
When this is
what comes of
21 years’ ser-
vice, howmuch
boundless gra-
titude is likely
to fall to the
lot of the local
Transvaal vet-
eran of 12
months’ stand-
ing ?
The widow of District Court Judge
Callaghan, now forty years dead, is still a resi-
dent of Ranrl wick, near Sydney. She was a
daughter of Justice Milford, of the Queensland
Bench, 'or of the Bench in the Moreton Bay
district, as it was then called. Callaghan was a
Dublin man, who achieved some distinction as
author of a legal work. He was killed while on
circuit at Braidwood by the kick of a horse.


FOR THE LENTEN SEASON.
MACONOCHIE’S
DELICIOUS FISH.
Freah Herrings. Kippered Herring's. -
Preserved Bloaters. Herrings in Tomato Sauce.
Findon Haddocks.
SWIFT & COMPANY
7 Bpring Street, Sydney,
Australian Agents.
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For CONSTIPATION.
Professor D. LAMBL, of Warsaw, Professor of Clinical Medicine at the University, writes
“ Hunyadi Janos Bitter Water, besides being an excellent general aperient,
has proved specially efficacious in the treatment of chronic constipation)
obstruction and congestion, haemorrhoids and obesity.”
Average Dose :— A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with m
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION.
Note the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor
- ANDREAS BAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Par'
of the Label.
Hotel
All of vo Ho
RATES:
12s. 6d. per Day,
and upwarda
For the Summer Season.
The innumerable visitors who have stayed at “ The
Australia” during Summer months have nothing
but praise for this famous Hotel. Ladies with
families obtain every comfort and attention at
a very reasonable cost. The rooms, furniture and
appointments of “The Australia” are unsurpass-
able. The Hotel has been built with every attention
to the needs of the climate. Hence, on the hottest
Summer day, the coolness of its rooms is as refrpah
ing as a cold bath. n ‘
J. URE SMITH (Late of Menstes'), Manager
Gastlereagh-st., Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors.— ln the ease of ethnological and
natural-history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific value.
S.S. : Be that Victorian couple whose
gamp took fire by reason of the sun’s rays and was
burned to the ground. I remember the case of a
man up Bundaberg way whose whiskers suddenly
burst into flame at noonday when he was taking a
bath m the sea. It was subsequently found that
the conflagration was caused by the sun’s rays
reflected from the ocean.
HOW HE LOST IT.
1ST. LOAFER : "Say, Bony, orl these years I've
knowed yer, yer never told me ’ow yer lost
yer heye.”
2ND. LOAFER : “ Why, how'd yer think? It got
wore out through keepin' it fixed on the best
interests of the country, like them blokes sex
in the Upper ’ Oust .”
During the first day’s running of
the steam trams at Broken Hill, the Barrier
urchins simply overwhelmed the officials,
swarmed all over the cars, and amused themselves
by hopping off and on while the tram was in rapid
motion. A struggling mass of kid stood on the
footboards, and cheerfully defied the conductor to
collect their fares or the police to shift them off.
The luck of the great aggregate kid was good, and
the one aocident happened to a man, who got in-
terested as to the whereabouts of a nipper that
had tumbled off, with the result that he himself
got among the wheels. The Sydney fellows who
went up to run the trams were satisfied that the
Barrier kid is in a class by himself. Local resi-
dents ascribe this to the fact that many of the
youngsters are reared on goat’s milk.
: Benalla (Vic.) farmers lost manv
oows through the rabbits eating all the
now they are losing more cows through tlnfomU
rabbits itS ‘> fa T mers P°«oned the
rabbits with phosphorised wheat : the cows ate
mfl/.h 6ad bo^les ’ an d kicked the bucket. Tim
Zvetit^ W On™ m ° rbld beaSfe in the matter of
appetites. Once came across a dairy herd at
iwTh° P * u at nearly 7 ent off its joint and several
dot through eating a barrel of dried ling.
®
“ Mumbulla” writes •
country, things are different, and bosses of the board
SS are
fastened the th I the crown mostly gone, cotton shirt
, at the neck with piece of tin wire, duniraree
He h “ hJ ih * “ K
Then, having told what looks like the possible
truth so far, Mumballa” suddenly drons into
perjury after this fashion: 7 P mt °
J® 1 !”' 1 th . ere is , one f airly up-to-date shearing shed in
these parts, at a place called Gundabooka. There thev
The h^ 11 the year r °nnd, and have stands for 200 shearer/
The boss goes round the board on a bike (a Humbert
Two circular-saws, driven by steam, are going all day
cutting up brownie for the shearers and rouseaboutZ
to the m a PiP K 8 ’ and is brou ? hfc f rom the hut
h m{?’ ®?° yar ? 3 - , b 7 means of a 6-inch centrifugal
pump. The ringer in this shed never does any shearing
but pays a couple of Earners to do it for him 7 white he
the heefofhls Dick> ” ° r playS mu »ble-peg on
° * *
_ Ma j°r Sw indle y, lately deceased, at the
(M.L.) onoe gave one of his coats to an
old Maori chief; and, meeting the latter some
time afterwards, attired in his customary flax
mat, said ‘ Hullo, Rangi, why you no wear that
coat ? Rangi: Ino nke—he kly, kly, kly all
fi/™ 6 - Swindley : “ He’s crying, eh ! What’s
the matter with him ? ” Rang. : Oh, he klying
for his fnen’ te trous.” J -
* * * *
Myall : Cannot any horse-doctor dis-
cover a cure for the effects of Darling pea ? Waa
recently passing through a
selector’s paddock in Coon-
amble district, when my at-
tention was attracted to the
peculiar capers of a horse at-
tached to an old dray a short
distance off the road. The
animal was plunging and
rearing in a most eccentric
manner, the while a small
boy in charge was ministering
to it with the back of a long-
handled shovel. Above the
rattle of the dray and the
thuds of the persuasive weapon
could be heard the screech : “Yer
blanky pea-struck cow! ” Even-
tually the gee-gee decided on a short
sprint through the bush, and finished
up by landing himself and dray in a
huddled heap amongst the fallen timber.
I learnt that about four-fifths of the
horses in the district are this season
suffering from the effects of the pea,
pobably owing to the scarcity of feed.
The malady is, so far, incurable, and.
though the animal affected may enjoy
long lucid intervals, like George 111.,
there is no telling when he will go crazy
again, and become a snake-haunted horse
tunning amok.
* • • •
“ Elma ” on old St. Kilda :
Sight of an omnibus on St. Kilda Road, the other day,
recalled old times decades ago, when the coaches ran from
St. Kilda in and out of town over bush tracks, past over-
hanging gum and wattle trees, and swamp land crowded
with water-fowl. In 1851 the Nicholsons were about the
only people living at St. Kilda. Afterwards the bush-
rangers haunted the environs of Melbourne ; they took
possession of theswamp, nowthepark, and bailed up people
who tried to get to their suburban houses. One day they
had 14 people tied to different trees on the site of the
present park. Nicholson always escaped the attacks of
the bushrangers. He was a man of great charity (at the
time of the great rush to Melbourne he threw open his
store for the free accommodation of the homeless), and
the bushrangers spared him—tempting booty though he
might have provided.
• • * •
“ Weider ” re calf-planting and other
matters: —
I think “ Jack-a-01ubs’” method has been rather
severely condemned. It acts very well in most cases,
but, of course, there are some cows too cunning to be
taken in. I have tried “ E.X.O.’s ” idea, taking a dog,
but that fails more often than the other way, as the cow
will chase the dog in any direction from her calf.
“ Meera” is right about an experienced cow leading you
on a blind trail. “ Mulga Jack’s” way is the best so far
—to watch the cow all day, but that does not pay if your
time is money. I have tried all ways, and I find the
best and cheapest is to yard the cow over night, and let
her go at daybreak the next morning, and she will make
a bee-line to her offspring. I have never known this
device to fail. Re the ’roo lapping. “ Werrimee "is
right, the ’roo does lap his drink. I have a tame one,
and just out of curiosity I got a deep glass dish,
filled it with water, and watched the ’roo drink. He
puts his lips slightly in the water and then out darts his
tongue. I could not hear any lapping noise, and I would
not have believed he lapped if I had not seen his tongue
through the glass.
• • . •
“Riverina”: Be beer-drinking contests
(“Myall,” 8., 15/2/’O2). I saw one soaker con-
sume eight long beers, but he became deadly sick
at the next. With a shame-faced expression he
explained to the shouters that a hop had got in
his _ throat and tickled it, so causing the un-
desirable result. Also, at the settling-up after a
bush race-meeting, another drinker (a Bulletin
bard, a brother of Henry Lawson’s, a cousin of
“The Banjo,” “6xß,”and “Scotty theWrinkler,”
also uncle and other relation to various other
celebrities—so he said) drank nine or ten long ’uns
in record time, and was then fired out. Next day
he was heard to remark that ‘ ‘ settling-ups nowa-
days aint what they useter be. Once ther’ Was
plenty of beer at ’em, but now it’s like goin’ into
the drought-country.”
At Charlton where the paddocks
skeleton-
hay e for some
sheei> on
pens it e,
said vepeta-
-100 miles
tropnlin.
bare, grazier*
time fed theii
cabbages. Ex
considering
' ble is tracked
from the me*
A BLACK WRECK.
HEAD STOORMAN: "What’s the matter, Harry?”
HARRY ( who has been to town the night before) :
“My word, boss, bin a big drunk las’ni’.
Woke up this mornin’ with a headache and
a black eye.”
Fraulem : Have never seen any printed
reference to the kangaroo-fly. It is of slaty-brown
color, somewhat smaller than the common house-
fly, and it invariably accompanies the kangaroo.
When our dogs would get away out of sight on a
chase, we would search them well when they re-
turned, and if a ’roo fly was found on any of them,
we knew there had been a kill and searched round
until we found the ’roo. !Mo fly; no search.
* * * *
“ Fraulein ” : Knew of a horse that,
stretching up to reach a bough, got his head stuck
in the fork of the tree and hung there until he
died Also, of a bullock which, down on his
knees rushing a bunch of reeds, got his horns en-
tangled and died of starvation.
* * * •
“ Wongim ” : “ Prospector ” (B. 17/8/’01)
refers to the “ boyang.” Can anyone give me the
origin of the word ? Also, the origins of the terms
marram grass ” and “ donga ” (a hollow) ?
* * • *
“ Riverina ”: Re mirages. A com-
mon sight is a clump of trees, a strip of
sky above it, and then another clump
of trees, the exact counterpart of the
first, above that again. Have been in-
formed, ureliably, that when dropping
down (lost and almost beaten) on an
Australian plain, a swagman saw a pic-
ture in the sky of an old mate of his walk-
ing into a public-house with some friends.
The weary one staggered to his feet and
managed to travel 15 miles in the direc-
tion of the reflection, when he struck a
publichouse, only to find that it was the
wrong one. The pub. he had seen in his
vision was Casey’s, 14 miles further on.
This item doesn’t cast much new light
on the subject of mirages, but as an
essay on the disgraceful scarcity of public-
houses it is all there.
* *• • •
“Bob R.” : Can endorse your re-
marks (B. 15/2/’O2) re the wholesale de-
struction of the N.S. Wales forests. In
the Temora (N.S.W.) district, there ex-
isted a magnificent forest of ironbark, but
it has been ruthlessly destroyed, the finishing
stroke being put on it when the Railway authori-
ties permitted the cutting of “round-back”
sleepers. The young growing trees were then
attacked, even if only one sleeper could be cut
from each. The result is that the forest is gone
beyond redemption. The Forestry Department
is going to appoint a commission to inquire into
the preservation of our forests. It will take that
commission all its time to find forests to inquire
into now.
* » • •
Dear Bulletin.— Who is this M'Cooey
person who portions out to the kangaroo his
habits and gi veth to the wallaby his distinguishing
characteristics ? And why does he rage exceed-
ingly in Latin, and set the native bear straight,
and make the ’possum walk a chalk-line, and
allow one animal to have hair on his ear and
another one not, and generally raise a great dust ?
—Yours truly, G-bant Hbbvey.
** G.S.S.” : Nest-mak-
ing is a characteristic
of cat-fish. The nest
is generally a ring
of small stones
or pebbles, where
the spawn is de-
posited in season,
and where the
fish “sleeps” a
good deal during
the day. Where
stones are scarce
the fish shoves
or rolls pebbles
along with its
mouth to the
desired spot.
The nest is
generally cir-
cular or oval
in shape, and
is made near
the shore.
“Hi-Yah”: Re M'Cooey’s recent out-
break, or portion thereof (B. 14/12/’01) I don’t be-
lieve he ever saw a full-grown eel. A man caught
one the other night at the Bairnsdale (Vic.) wharf
which scaled 251 b. It is a common thing in the
Mitchell River to land eels weighing from 10 to
301 b. Saw one brute, when hooked, drench a
boat full of anglers a few days ago. Have fre-
quently, when sculling in the evening, bumped
into an eel big enough to stop the way of the boat,
asleep on top of the water. You’d think they
were snags till the water started to fly. M'Cooey’s
111 b. eel was probably a “bull-head” or a very
young eel that got away from its guardian before
it was able to take care of itself. He wants to
come up here to see the real article.
THE LAND ADMIRAL RAWSON IS
COMING TO.
TO BUSHMAN DE WET.
The late Boer drive was the most successful
operation of the latter half of the war. De Wet
escaped in a charge of cattle.”— Recent war item.
Christian De Wet,
We ain’t got yer yet,
But Ketchener vows
You’d have been bagged,
Transported and scragged—
But for them cows.
You’re always to blame ;
Yer don’t play the game.
Who’s heard of wars
Where a toff, with a sword on,
Would dare charge a cordon
With a mob of “ stores ” t
Twenty columns there,
Blockhouses everywhere.
What right had you—
Yer plans confounded,
Yer men surrounded—
To drive them milkers through t
I’ll never, never, never,
Try again to stop a heifer
(D.W. on the shoulder).
Blockhouses is pretence,
And I think a six-rail fence
Round Africa won’t hold yer.
BATTERED BUSHMAN.
" MATES OF MINE."—(TO
OGILVIE.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(See “ Bards of the Backblocht.”
11/IfOS.)
Now, these are the three one
meets most oft,
Of birth and breeding alien,
Who leave the bog and the town
and croft
And the West End home or the
stable-loft
For this Dry Land Australian I
Free with his fist and fond of a
glass,
Smokes and swears—by Gad I
he
Will sing and sin, then go to
Mass,
And prey on the lips of a pretty
lass.
Oh, shake, be jabers I
Paddyl
Fat in the head, but good at the heart,
Not too much brain—dull wittish ;
He’s crammed with pride, but he’ll take one’s part.
Oh, he’s brave as an ant when he gets a start—
Re’s not too awful—
British!
Encore Curse :
Too mean to smoke, no zest for a kiss—
Sort of a soulless botch, man,
Oh, he thinks wealth life’s divinest bliss,
And he leaves an odor of greed, I wis—
Phew / Pass the carbolic !
SCOTCHMAN 11
GRANT HERVEY.


(< APENTA.” ®
The Best Natural Aperient Water.
A Specific
For The Certain Relief Of .
HABITUAL and OBSTINATE CONSTIPATION and m
DISORDERS of the LIVER and BILIOUS ATI AC lv.o.
TO CURE SORE EYES.
Apply Morris’s Imperial Eye Ointment, and,
avoid intense suffering. Never be without it.
Over 50 years in use. Refuse all substitutes).
Pots, 25.; sold everywhere.
The Bulletin Reciter has been taken by
Bill and Jim straight to their warm hearts, and
already its contents have gladdened thousands of
audiences all over Australia. Most of the besb
and most famous Bulletin recitation-pieces are
included in this fine collection-price ss. post-
free from Bulletin office.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advb. on page
23 of this issue *
FOB
WOLFFS SCHNAPPS. <
WATSON’S WHISKY.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our SILR STRIPE
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly reoommended.
33/ per Half- dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Applioation
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial pair-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
The Bulletin Stoky Book (price 4s. 6d.
post-free from The Bulletin office) has been
everywhere hailed as by far the best book of
Australian stories and sketches yet published.
All the best-known Australian writers, for the
last ten years, are represented; and, both for
interest and literary value, the selection is un-
surpassed in this country.*
Dear Bulletin.— Witnessed in Sydney
Domain what was probably a miserable survival
of that noble game of “crack-skull” mentioned
by “H. J.M.” (Bulletin, 15/2/’O2). It was played
by a crew of German sailors, who got down on all-
fours, but as they could not trust their thin mado-
in-Germany skulls to come skull to skull, the
head of the one mildly butted the rear part of
the other. Instead of the lively whacks and
blood-stirring yells of the combatants described
by “H. J.M.” there was a dull, flat sound like a
football dropped on corned-beef, and gutter:il
German grunts. When one combatant fell and
barked his nose the game broke up. “H. J.M.’s ”
Mick—the pride of Burrowa—could knock the
lot of them out in one butt. Ah, me! how the
grand old games of our youth are going under,
but the grand old liars still keep bobbing up, so
all is not yet lost. —Spring.
* * * *
“T.J.G.” : A correspondent (B. 15/2/’O2)
says “ white ants never attack a living plant.”
On the South Coast, N.S. W., white ants attack
several kinds of plants at various stages of growth.
Have had quantities of potatoes destroyed by
them. Corn and other crops are occasionally
damaged in small quantities while growing. The
ants also destroy large quantities of growing
hardwood trees.
» » * •
A frivolous iguana. On 18tli Feb., as the
mail-coach was being driven from Albury to How-
long (N.S.W.), an iguana climbed up on to the
back of one of the horses. The team, becoming
wildly excited, bolted, and capsized the vehicle
against a tree. Pretty nearly the only thing that)
got away uninjured was the iguana.
* • • •
An Australian mother, giving evidence
before the Newcastle (N.S.W.) bench of magis-
trates (she had been summoned for neglecting to
send her son to school), told this story :
The lad was over 6ft. in height, and weighed over 1 Ost.
He was 13 years of age, had passed the fifth standard,
and was now employed at an iron-rolling mill. They had
been compelled to put him to work, as he could eat more
than all the rest of the family together, and was still
growing.
The Bench, however, held that “ the child ” could
not leave school till he was 14, and made an order
for him to attend.
• • * •
“ F.C.G.” : Canvassing, a while back, on a
N.S.W. northern river, I struck a farm about
tucker-time, and found a woman trying to patch
up a calf that had its leg injured. She invited me
to dinner, and had just started to operate on the
salt-horse when the calf began to bleat with pain.
Whereupon up she jumped, rushed out, cut the
brute’s throat with the carving-knife, came back,
and resumed operations without even wiping the
knife.
NO CAUSE FOR HURRY .
ALGY (who has just asked cocky for drink of
water): "Ah, what a peculiar flavor that
water has."
COCKY (absently): “ H’m! that reminds me.
The missus said somethin’ about a calf
failin’ down ther well, but I ain’t ’ad any
time ter lcok yet.”
“Thurla”: “Wallaroo” (8., 27/4/’01)
writes of teamsters in wet weather travelling 12
miles in three days. This is express speed com-
pared with some journeys made in the wet nineties
on Gunnedah-Coonabarabran road. About half-
way there used to be one bad spot—known
locally as the Glue-Pot—which was about i-mile
long and thickly studded with sunken basalt
boulders in a black-soil patch. Have known
carriers to get through in three days—never in
less than one —in those wet times. Coach-
travellers, also, on that road, have vivid recollec-
tions of walking and digging-out, etc. This road,
being one-half black-soil and the other half
through sand, the carriers always had some bad
road to travel in any weather.
THE DIFFERENT MUTTON.
WAITER: "Great change in the we’ther, sir?"
CUSTOMER: “ You’re right; it was a very different sheep that my last chop was cut from."
A Northern Territory butcher is a China-
man and brings beef round twice a week in an old
four-wheeled buggy. A resident who hadn t seen
him for a week asked what was the matter. John
said his “good fiend” had died and he wanted the
buggy to cart him to the nearest cemetery. As
the good fiend didn’t go in a coffin, but bounced
along to his last resting-place loose, that resident
didn’t have any beef that week. He wanted the
buggy to get a bit of an airing.
* • * •
“ A.Gr.D.” : I watched a boy “ lagging ”
to school after 10 a.m. this morning. There
was no undue haste in his manner. He
freely applied saliva to his hands, and
i then tried the effect of a strap on
them. The philosophy and futility
of it were so thoroughly Aus-
tralian !
• • •
“Tonbur”: Hungry and
tired and covered with flies, one
terribly hot day I struck a station
in the Gulf country. The manager
was sitting stark-naked under a
bough-shed, while a lubra poured
water over him with a quart-pot.
Two picanninies were knocking
the flies away with boughs, while
a number of niggers (male and
female) sat around and admired.
My appearance did not in the
least embarrass the gentleman.
“Let your horse go and come
and have a douche,” he said.
“ Here, Lottie, bring a bucket of
water and give the gentleman a
rub-down ! ” He was the only white
man on the place, and had been there
25 years without going further than
the nearest village, 125 miles away.
The table at meals swarmed with ants
and flies, and at night the mosquitos
were so awful that the “humpy,
called a “station,” had to be sur-
rounded by cow-dung fires, the smpll
from which was stifling. Choose be-
tween the Grulf and Sheol 1
“ Myall ” : Shrimps are leaving Namoi
River in vicinity of Walgett and perishing in
myriads on the water’s edge. Apparently, the
water is now too bad for even the tough and
enduring shrimp to stand it.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications inaufflotentlf
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted , whether sent by post or
handed in > and in no ease will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
Pro-B. : Don’t recollect getting your letter j
thanks ; forwarded part of letter to manager for inquiry.
0.H.0.: 120 long lines about the predatory habits of
T. Atkins too flimsy.. ..M.S.: Courtship maxims give
rather too warm a fire for our chaste columns.... A.W.8.:
Your type-writer seems to have just come back from the
Xmas holidays ; spelling mistakes establish a record for
this office P. 0.0.: Yerse not up Wild W. : Facts
are interesting enough, but you don’t tell them with any
brightness ; try to fix them, not as a yarn, but as a short
article Fayre : Will print “Four Letters.”
Tom Lee : Yes, marriage quite legal; the name doesn’t
matter a bit.... T.T.: Fairy tale, point of which depends
on the Gov.-General sharing a bed with his private
secretary, respectfully declined. That’s not a custom of
the British peerage... .S.L. : Too crude Rice Farley :
Some promise, but not up. .M.K. : Pretty, but altogether
off Bulletin track... .Narranghi Boori: Go slow. The
old diggers of Bendigo and Ballarat had an easier life than
the average agricultural laborer of to-day, and a darned
sight better pay, and a much easier bunk to lie upon
W.P. : Dialogue not worth space Mariquita: You
take the matter too seriously. “ Goth," “ Vandal,”
“Hun” are—independently Of the original inference-
recognised modern English conventions to denote barbaric
lack of taste and culture. Even “ Gothic” architecture
was so termed, not because it was supposed to be the
special work of the Goths, but because the writers of the
Renaissance regarded it as the work of barbarians
M.S. : “A Cupid” is one more of the “ Dolly Dialogues,”
and Dolly has dialogued quite enough already Cigar-
ette: Mostly paper and ash... .R.A.K.: Doesn’t read
anything like a real picture of schoolboy life C.P. :It
would do our very soul good to know where they sell
that notepaper. .Lillipilli: Yourmodesty is unusual. Sorry
none up to the mark. You don’t attain to more than
conventional prettiness... .Joblot: But “ heretic ” and
“ infidel” are mere terms of abuse, which prove nothing
one way or the other. Also, the enlightenment of the
world has proceeded entirely from “heresy.” Doubt
leads to investigation, discovery, new knowledge, pro-
gress Commercial: Unintelligible... .Squib : Wouldn’t
go off! Jas. M. : In sending specimen of another man’s
bad spelling, you mis-spell two words yourself—one of
them being your own surname 1 J.G.W. : Not enough
in it O.N. : Very moderate merit—Nymsie : Humor
forced and style faulty....F. O’D. : Doggerel of the
deepest dog W.X.R. : Heterogeneous and inconse-
quent Stormalong :It doesn't storm-along. No dash
or vigor to redeem the stodginess of the subject
Telsic : Treatment still lacks strength and 5ki11.... J.H.C.:
Thanks; but the undressed-tomato-gag has often seen
print Blue Flag : Too long, and hard to negotiate
J. Riely : The “lapses” are not in our prosody, but in
your orthoepy. You evidently make “ cerements ” three
syllables, and put the accent on the last syllable of “ to-
wards.”... .Kodak : “Prodigal” is too crudely worked
out Cymar: We knew it was no good when, on the
very first page, “he haughtily drew himself up.” H.P.
(Wollongong): And it probably never occurred to you
that the whisky duty is not put on as a Protec-
tive duty, but purely for revenue purposes. N.S.W.
levied it on strictly revenue-and-Freetrade principles.
. ...Paradise Camp : Yes, “ and a very good thing t 00.”...
Glenara: “ Wheat Country ” rather stiff and mechanical.
Dudley : No new ideas in it, and the old ideas aren’t
told in a new way Pro-Australian : Ask something
easier J. : What are you talking about? There was
no “abuse” (“vituperative” or otherwise) in the
par. As regards your pet “ Chow,” as you call
him, being able to give our correspondent points in
an educational sense, you don’t know the correspondent,
so your opinion doesn’t count for anything
Omega : Not gruesome enough. A very small “ grue.”..
Young ’Un : One good bit of verse. Others doubtful
Alohu-Nui-Loa : Spreads over much space without throw-
ing much new light on the case A Reader (Gunne-
dah) : If you are “ disgusted with The Bulletin’s atti-
tude” then don’t read it. If your intellect wasn’t
equal to thinking of that easy way out of the difficulty
then your opinion on other matters isn’t likely to be
worth much Sydney: In other words, 80 German
residents of Capetown are said to have signed
an address declaring that certain charges brought
against the British troops in the Transvaal, about
600 miles away, are untrue. And they would be
sure to know at that distance, wouldn’t they ?
But what have the German stories to do with the case?
The British authorities keep sending in reports about the
fearful death-rate in their concentration camps, and
about how they burn the homes of their opponents and
make the country an ash-heap after the fashion of Attila,
the Hun. Almost everything The Bulletin has said
about the war has been based on British official
reports. Also, it was the Jingo dailies which published
the German slanders—not The Bulletin. The “ slanders ”
against the British army which this paper
were those furnished by Australian con tmgente» .
RfiH “ One nofc much good > the other is an o
Bulletin joke ...Jugum: But, when you call us irre-
verent,” you “ beg the question” as to what is worthy of
reverence ...A. Dawson: Yes, for accepted matter .
Mhitar : “ Worboys” flabby and unconvincing.. ■ Fnsco
Quaint idea, but clumsily presented G.H.W.. Neitner
nn to the mark, though “ Desire ” has some strength .. .
OPB0 P B • Good, but unfortunately it turns upon “ totally
unorintable point Adanem: Not brightly enough
treated . E.G.H. : Ideas vague, and versification hope-
less Zola: It has neither strength nor lightness....
8.5t.8.A. : Hardly interest enough Alma: ¥,L , .
meritorious verses.... Argo : The reason was that, at th .t
time scientists dared not make their discoveries known;
except to each other, and thus drew together in various
secret brotherhoods.’.. .Dotty : Your observations are fa
from “ dotty,” at all events, but you spread them ovef
too many square miles of country... .Stanley P. •
slight and colorless Albo: None of them quite up td
mark Y.J.I). : Funny, but treatment awkward....
Neddie : Rather pretty, but, hardly in Bulletin s line....
Slimjim : Not slim enough to squeeze in, anyhow.. . Dora .
Mechanically excellent, but totally lack.ng bfe and colo
Isaak Walton : There’s room for a good verse on the sub
iect but vou don’t fill that room 0.0. . Too small an
Bent for the space.... Q. Rix -Pleasant narrate o
circumstances, but not a story. . - Hannah
to learn vet “ The Scene of My Stofy is a dead \
beginning* But you’re on the right track m striv-
ing to record genuine experiences... . .0. B. divers .
“ Shattered Idol ’’-its pieces will be posted to you. At
Curtain’s Fall” a shade under acceptance mark ...1,.
M'Cabe: About as new as Pharaoh of tb.® ’\ e
L M.D. : Don’t care for it.... Ahau . Will print ode
and “Dream.” The rest of the consignment is good
magazine verse, but quite off a newspapers track
A.H. : The Bulletin doesn’t want puns, &c. It wan s
“ &c.” —not puns... .C.R. (Eden): Subject d.edontb ;
road—at least, it didn’t reach here al;ve... .KiHaloe .
“Rain” is good sentiment, but bad verse....J.B.M. .
" Old Higgins” is a commonplace story, and the metr;
slumps badly in places... .T.D. : “ Daniel s Christening
will appear....Wayback : You ought to have stayed
there.... Mattie F. : Pretty, but purposeless • ••*;. U.o. .
Somewhat weird, but overdone and unnatural.... Jonn ts.
(Vic.): Slack of both interest and workmanship....
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Fed. : “ Bridget” is a steal from a very old Bulletin.
The other isn’t—for the best of reasons... .J.R. • W 0
very obscure jokes Nina F. : One very obscure joke...
W.H.S. : Inefficient prayer-for-rain joke. ...E.B.J- - un-
suitable.. .. A. Macl. (St.K.) : Thanks ; but hardly worth
while... .Briarlea : Sent to artist... .G.C.R. : Unsuitable
Joss : Crude, and too small for reproduction, bhould
be drawn with Indian ink on Bristol board and one-th:«l
larger than they are intended to be printed.
THE CRICKETER HAD SEEN HIM HOME.
“ What’s the good of telling lies, Joseph? The
idea of telling me you went to the cricket-
banquet when I distinctly heard you say,
‘Good-night, DARLING,’ just as you came in
at the door. O you wretch !” (Turns on
the tap.)
A Much-Troubled Printer.
A compositor on one of our leading provincial
papers—the Maitland Mercury— has had a hard
time, according to all accounts, and in giving an
outline of his life he detailed some extraordinary-
experiences.
“For over twenty-five years,” said he, “ I have
been a victim to chronic diarrhoea, and notwith-
standing careful dieting, I suffered terribly. I fell
away to a mere skeleton, lost all confidence in my
powers, and finally got so debilitated that I became
subject to fainting fits, which left me helpless. So
unusual was my case that ordinary medicines
proved of no avail, and as a last resource my
medical adviser ordered me a change. In New-
castle I met a gentleman who, afte*- suffering
from diarrhoea for ten years, had been
cured by Dr. Williams’ pmk pills for pale
people. I procured a supply, and after taking
one box my head grew clearer, my appetite
increased, and I gained in strength. Four
boxes freed me from every symptom of diar-
rhoea, and to-day I feel better than I have been
for the past thirty years.” During the present
hot weather diarrhoea is especially prevalent, and
a reliable tonic is necessary to enrich the im-
poverished blood and tone up the relaxed nerves.
Dr. Williams’ pink pills do this and more besides,
for' their strengthening properties are such that
they enable every organ of the body to carry opt
its functions regularly. They also cure anaemia,
debility, skin diseases, St. Yitus’ dance, hysteria,
heart palpitation, rickets, scrofula, consumption,
inflammation of the bowels and lungs, ladies ail-
ments, loss of vital strength, etc. Obtainable
from chemists and storekeepers, and the Dr. Wil-
liams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney, two
and nine per box, six boxes fifteen and three, post
free. ‘ ‘ How to cure Diarrhoea ’’—special letter of
instructions free to all who write.


Sport combined with good citizenship.
Knowing Old Rat : “My deai\ 1
thini you and I will observe,
Wednesday as a fast-day ! ”
Ever since The Bulletin’s Musical Critic got
V permission to practise in the basement there
\ hasn’t been a live rat seen about the
\ building.
sF-'^s (
o
s
<6^
aS>
&
The •• Baiiong-ia-London ” Usbiou serves,
a useful purpose at last !
va&iqcs expedients
A DAY OF EXTERMINATION.


The raison (Ttlrt of the new society, of
which Sir William Zeal is the prime mover,
is to bring Englishmen into line with thej
pther nationalities of the United Kingdom.!
The St. George war*cries are familiar in
Shakespeare. Henry V.. before Harfleun
concludes his speech to hi« soldiers with,
this electrical appeal :
The game 7 »* afoot, .
Follow your spirit, and upon this charge (etc.)-
h
$llll S» i *it ItefwHs'W Hi - I
—I ■lilllill I 111
iBIBfiiiIIUMImW 1
The- new society will, therefore, aim to* J
provide for men of English birth or descent jj
—either on the paternal or maternal side, /j
Bis apiiiiiittiiai
IfSHUSrIl f ® (Sißil Ift 11 iSlpp
; i*si ’#pf"
A.
f/^c/7
eVv o*
% jP /
<► <> «»> -Cr or '
*cr cr cr N '
*///</'
**//'
»*
IHIIHISSiii ill Illlisil
(
/% fejc-A
\ ./?’*' j^rA
'N ;"2SB
. St. G-eorge'a Day, coupled with Shake* ■
.jßpeare’s Day, will be sufficient inducement <
tor Englishmen here to sit down and -nat
the roast *beef of Old England 1 ,, sip their -
of bitter, and end up with- a good old
mm
■r-S |
S3*
if s
“■8 a
fit
£
‘So . &
05 ji
® „ _s_i,
p #5 |
is
-5m
•' **_
liiliilliili
One of the advantages of the society will
be that distinguished Englishmen arriving
here will be taken on hand and shown round
the city, just in the same mariner that the
Caledonian* welcomed General M‘Donald.
mmm *
mm ilil PI II fill 111 illli ills « 1 si
iililj
jmn || |
zr jm ifx ijMpii ji
ifSlHi* 1
[I III 11 llli
■pfi III! 11l
‘ It is hoped that arrangements will be
made to celebrate the beginning o (
society on 23rd April by some sort
festivity.^— oOllllli 11 il !il[i! liJfiiltiliff i jlti! i! iMf
fi 1 Eli if! ilf iMtfrl
|| lIHHIj Ell If
Sii7g< W y 1 , |J||
APROPOS OF ZEAL’S PROPOSED ST. GEORGE’S SASSIETY.


A. SAUNDERS’
WATCHES, CLOCKS. JEWELLERY, & SILVERPLATE AT FftEETRADE PRICES
SAVE 25 TO 50 PER CENT. SHOWROOMS: 815 GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
HRR
A. SAUNDERS.
4 O'CLOCK CAKE FORKS, Pure Silver-plat*
on Hard White Metal, in Silk-lined Case, 20a.
Similar style, 12s 6d.
These will last your lifetime.
as
£
A. SAUNDERS.
DINNER CRUET, 6 Bottles, with Shield, Pure
Silver-plate on White Hard Metal.
A Useful and Serviceable Article, £2 10s.
Other styles, £2, £3, £4.
A. SAUNDERS’ LATEST STYf.tt
FRUIT or CAKE STAND,
Silver-plated Stand with Fancy Class, 80a.
Similar Stand, 27s ed.
A. SAUNDERS.
FLOWER STAND, Silver-
plated Base, 8s 6d per pair.
Larger styles, 12s 6d, 15s 6d, 21s,
Choice Table Appointments.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Swan PIN,
7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
05.— CANDLESTICK, Pure
Silver-plated, 8s 6d eahh.
Similar Desians. 12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
*®AP BOX, Silver-plated, Nicely
Chased and Embossed. 12s tjd.
FREE TRADE PRICES.
A. SAUNDERS.
EGG CRUET, very neat, effective, 4 Cups
and Spoons, Pure Silver-plated on White
Nickel Silver, 20s. Other styles and
patterns, 255, 30s, 85s, £2, £2 10s.
HOT WATER KETTLE and STAND.
r 'an be used as a Teapot. Pure Silver-
plated on White Metal, Beautifully
Chased and Ornamented, £2.
Embossed and Extra Chased, £2 10s.
Other Styles, £3, £3 l6s.
Handsome and Useful Article.
A. SAUNDEKS.
“LADIES’ FRIEND,” Pure Solid Silver*
mounted, .18* 6d ; Smaller, 15a 6<L
A Nice Present.
A. SAUNDERS.
LUNCHING CRUET, 4 Bottles,
SilTer-plated, 18s 6d. Very Pretty.
SPECTACLE
CHATELAINE
CASE,
Solid Silver, 30s, £2,
Silver-plated, 12s 6d.
Send for list.
Other lines,
2s 6d, 4s od, 6s 6d,
10s 6dL
A. SAUNDERS.
Cut Glass Sterling Silver-
mounted
HAIRPIN HOLDER, ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
F-NTREB PISH, makes two Dishes, pure Silver-
plated on white Nickel Silver, 40s.
Other style*, £2 10s to £6.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM or BUTTER KNIVES,
Suver-plated, Nicely Chased,
2s, 2s 6d, 3s, 8s 6d, 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent’s TICKET or WALLET
CASE,
7s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
Solid Silver HAIR BRUSH, in Silk-lined Case, as above, 30s.
Similar Styles, -without case, 15s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD BOARD and KNLFE, Pure Silver-plated on Hard
Nickel Silver, Beautifully Chased and Ornamented, 355.
Can be used as CARE DISH or SALVER.
Similar styles, 21s, 255, 30s, £2, £2 10s. A Useful Present.
A SAUNDERS
TWELVE 4 O’CLOCK TEA SPOONS and TONGS, in Silk-lined
Case. Very Best Pure Silver-plated, 355. Similar, 30s £2 £2 10s
„ . „ Six in Case and Tongs, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s. ’
CAKE KNIVES or FORKS. 208, 255, 30s, £2. Latest London Rage.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED BOOK. 8
4 O’CLOCK TEA SET, with Covers, Gilt inside, pure Silver-plated,
20 Years’ Guarantee, £2 10s ; worth £4 4s.
Other styles, £2, £3, £4.
Ti ADTTT.S kindly call and
SEE OTJB DISPLAY.
A. SAUNDERS.
CARD RECEIVER, Latest Style.
Pure Silver-plated and Ornamented, 20s. VERY CHOICE.
&
£H/S
UTTLE
FiG
MftS,
_ A. SAUNDERS.
Child’s SPOON, Solid Silver. Chased, 7s 6d. The Very Latest and Newest Designs.
HHHP
a<s
H 8
A. SAUNDERS.
TEA INPUSER, to make a Cup of Tea, Silver-plated, 3s 6d and 4s (id. Very Useful.
9
SUGAR SCUTTLE, Squa. o,
Handsomely chased and finished,
pure Silver-plated, 21s.
A Nice Present.
Other styles, 255, 30s.
h
A. SAUNDERS.
FIELD and OPERA GLASSES,
First-class Lenses, Good Effect,
12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 2os, 80s, £2,
£2 10s, £3, to £l2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS*
Gent.’s Sterling Silver CIGARETTE
CASE, SOVEREIGN PURSE, and
MATCH BOX combined. Handsomely
Chased, in Silk-lined Case, £2 10s.
Other styles, 30s, 85s, 40s.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER DISH, White Glass, Pure
Silver-plated, 15s 6d: larger size, £l.
Other Designs, 255, 80s, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class Silver-plated CRUET,
as above, 21s.
JtyhiondcVA
LONDON&sraiiLY
M
m
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER KNIFE and JAM SPOON,
n Silk-lined Case, the Very Best Silver-plate,
Nicely Chased, 10s, 12s 61, 15s, 20s.
Send for Illustrated Price List.
A. SAUNDEKS.
SALT CELLARS, 7s 6d, 8s 6d,
10s 6d, with Spoon.
A. SAUNDERS.
Sterling Silver-mounted Paris Panel PHOTO. FRAMES,
85s, 40s, 50s each.
s
m
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class 4-Bottle CRUET,
Bilyer-plated, 85s. Similar, 255, 80s.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOAST RACK, Pure Silver-plated,
in Every Style and Shape,
12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, '/Os. A Nice Present.
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE BASKET, Pure Silver-plated, Hand-chased
and Embossed, as above, £4.
Similar patterns, 20s, 255, 80s, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
TEAPOTS, very pretty and useful, Pure Silver-
plated, Hand Chased and Ornamented, "/Is. Odier
styles and patterns, 17s 6d. 20s, 255. 30s, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Silver-plated HAIRPIN TRAY, Pierced and Engraved, Is
iiga
Pure Silver BOOK MARK, 2s 6<L
A. SAUNDERS.
OAK BISCUIT,
Silver-plated, Fluted rims,
with enamelled inside, 20s ;
plain rims, 15s.
F\oral China same price.
j'is
A. SAUNDERS.
PUFF BOX, Pure Solid Silver, Pretty and
Ornamental, 255.
Silver-plated on White Metal, 17s 6d.
Olasß Bottom and Pure Silver Top,
10s, 15s, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
JEWELLER ana SILVERSMITH.
BEAUTIFUL L'ISILAY OF PRESENTS,
Mind, 815 GEORGE-STREET,
NEARLY OPPOSITE
RAILWAY STATION,
SYDNEY


WOOL PRODUCE. GRAIN.
The New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Coy., Ltd., SYDNEY,
ACT AS SBLLIMG BROKERS OKTIV3T.
Consign ere are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of this Company.
WOOL
COMMISSION FOE SELLING THREE-QUARTERS (£) PER CENT.
WAREHOUSING
'(lncluding Receiving into Store, Fire Insurance,
Weighing, Lotting, Repacking, Sample Bales,
Advertising, Cataloguing, etc.) on Wool real-
ising over SIXPENCE per lb. the charges
will be 3a. 9d. per Bale.
On Wools realising SIXPENCE and over Four-
pence per lb : 2s. 6d. per Bale.
On Wools realising FOURPENCE per lb. and
k under ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Is. 6d. per Bale.
Perfect System of Weighing 1 . Way Bills sent on Application.
PRODUCE
BALES of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, etc., HELD WEEKLY.
WHEAT.
Every inducement is offered growers to consign their grain for realisation by the Company.
Ample accommodation is provided. Three months free storage is allowed. Circulars are sent when
desired giving cost of railage and full particulars as to Charges, Advances, eto., eta
ABENTS FOB. McDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIF.
SOAPS that injure the skin a r e
dear at any price. A delicate
skin demands a delicate Soap
like VIIMOLIA, which improves
the complexion, and Purest,
Safest, and Best for the Nur-
sery.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
VINOLIA CREAM (for Itching, Sunburn, Prickly Heat, &c.)—4 sizes,
VINOLIA POWDER (tor Redness, Roughness, Toilet, Nursery, &c.) —4 sizes.
if it*
msps
Bucht ImfuSed Etk&lds
Weak Eyes Dimness ET?
S3ICEORCE ST
SYDNEY^
tTAsusHtp tasy^H
RECTO. LAB Eli.
The Greatest Discovery of Modern Times
. . FOB . .
ALL EYE COMPLAINTS
a - i °i“r' from any cause whatever.
ASK_FOR PACOQ
Celebrated Eye Lotion
A CERTAIN CURE for Sandy Blight, Granulations, Bunged Eyes,
Dimness of Sight, Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids, Weak Eyes caused by
Dust, Sun-Glare, Overwork, &c., Swelling Blight resulting from stings
of flies and insects.
Used with equal success on the Eyes of Cattle, Sheep, Poultry, Ac.
Largely used by Rifle-Shooters and Literary Mm.
Testimonials from leading Commercial and Professional Men throughout Australia.
Sole Proprietor . . .
H. A. ROSE,
Dispensing 1
Chemist,
531 George St., Sydney
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers. B3TBeware of Imitations.
Price 6s.
Post Free.
ON OUR SELECTION.
BY
“Steele Rudd.”
ELECTRICAL
ami
MINING ENGINEERS,
NOTE NEW ADDRESS!
Taralla Chambers,
109 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE Office: 15 &17 Queen Street.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
PLAYS
Catalogue
Free . . .
French’s Acting Edition.
ĥ
Bare Books
French Novels
Books
for
the
Married
Extra Special Catalogue ef
Boohs Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
Id Bulk and Bottle are unirertally acknowledged
*X*O DJtJJb'Y COMPBTITIOMf.
WINES
!%« Best Brands Ontf sf
&
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, Sto.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
DA.E»TO (X.al£<
(LIMITED).
Illawarra)i
near aXO^JB’S'*
SMELTERS.
• • •
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
FINE SILVER.
m
“s. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
“ ILLAW AREA”
..BRAND Of..
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP REFINERS of SILVER T.T3ATI BULLION
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT o< ASSAYS,
SVr *ll reformation regarding Rate*, oto., agply to P. 8. Monas, Manager* Th Smelting Qwropmy of Aoetralisy LMU PAPT'A Hftffi


A FREE VETERINARY BOOK.
. A most useful Veterinary Book is attached
to every bottle of Gondy's Fluid. This Book
contains instructions for curing most of the
ailments and accidents affecting Horses,
Dogs, Sheep, Cattle and Poultry.
Eminent Veterinary Surgeons recom-
mend Condy’s Fluid as an absolutely
certain cure for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs,
Broken Knees, Grease, Thrush and
Cracked Heels in Horses—Scab, Foot
Rot, Fly, etc., in Sheep—Hoove, Foul in
the Foot, Wounds and Sores in Cattle.
Oondy s Fluid is made by Condy &
Mitchell, Ltd., of 65, Goswell Road,
London, England, and is sold by all
Chemists and Stores. Beware of Colonial
substitutes. Insiston having Condy’s Fluid.
■WWMI
ffil&lsgggia
BSQ
G-O TO HCEX.L-
-IGOIiANI) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hag€i),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
73 1 hzateth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price*
lists gratis.
MTS.. HATS. hats,
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes litted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalojue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
BRISBA.KTB.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY # CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 Georgs Street, Sydney*
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION A FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, con lucted >y
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
C*"" Sales Held at the Auction Itooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 321 Georga-sfe
SIMPSON’S JUMP-SEAT SULKIES
No inter-state duties on our work now.
SIDNEY SIMPSON, 73 KINO STREET, NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
Ease, Style,
Quality, Price »
POLITICAL
POINTS
The mixed condition of S.A. politics is
proved by the fact that Premier Jenkins, Opposi-
tion leader Darling, and Labor leader Price are
all candidates for the same district (Torrens) at
the coming general elections in April, and each
reckons he is sure of success.
Latest development of the subscription-
cadging racket was an effort in Maoriland to
stick up the old-age pensioners for subscriptions
to a social to Premier Seddon. Many of the poor
old men were meanly cadged out of shillings for
this object by an official in the pensions office.
About the W.A. goldfields water supply
scheme The B. is informed that, about 111
miles from Perth, a gang of 60 men is opening up
the ground around the joints of the pipes to
enable the wonderful caulking machine to go over
them again. Will that water supply ever reach
Coolgardie?
Robert Philp now says that the Federation
into which he helped so cordially to lead Queens-
land a year or two ago is a great mistake and a
public calamity. Taking his word for it, should
any sensible community entrust its destinies to a
man who makes mistakes like that ? Philp, ac-
cording to his own declaration, couldn’t see two
years ahead, and a statesman needs to have longer
vision than that.
ALWAYS GOT
IT.
SNAGGS : “ Our
town is much
more 'prosperous than yours. Our
Minister’s salary is nearly twice as
much.”
B AGGS: “Perhaps so; but ours gets his money.”
Qaeensland is still waiting to hear Premier
Philp’s explanation of the Seaforth Estate job
—that unclean proceeding by which a property,
declared by the Government’s own valuer to be
worth £1 os. lOd. per acre, was purchased by the
State, out of loan moneys, for £3 13s. per acre,
allegedly for purposes of closer settlement. And
now the State can’t sell an acre of its disgraceful
white elephant, for no farmer will look at it at
the price.
As a general thing, so tired is the Murray
nowadays that the more active sea is steadily
pushing itself further in; and settlers down
towards the mouth who, a few years ago, paid for
fresh-water frontages now find their frontages are
brine. Of course, in a brotherly spirit, they blame
the.“excessive irrigation” in the other States—■
which must sound like a joke to those who know
how miserably little the real effort at irrigation has
been so far.
Since their inception both Federal Houses
have been responsible for many more or less silly
proposals. But about the most ridiculous of the
lot is the agitation set afoot by the Melbourne
Argus to amend the Constitution so that the
Federal capital may be located in Sydney and
Melbourne alternately every three or four years !
Think, of having a portable Parliament that is
periodically moved on—like a vagrant or a
Wandering Jew !
Victorian Government contemplates search-
ing in England for a railway commissioner. Seeing
that England has just greedily grasped at the not
too brilliant Mathieson as a great prize; seeing,
too, that English railways have been on a steady
down-grade now for some years, dividends
falling and ratio of expenses to earnings ever in-
creasing, it would be more sensible if the State
made it one of the conditions of its advertisement:
“No English need apply.”
Shortage of trucks on the Westralian
railways has been driving consignors and con-
signees mad for a year past, but the Sabbath calm
of the department is unruffled. The biggest
carrying firm in Perth (H. H. Stinton) received a
bill the other day for “removing loading from
crippled trucks to sound ones, £2.” The depart-
ment’s own shocking trucks had broken down, and
it seriously demanded that the consignee should
pay the above bill in consequence.
Sydney’s first “ South Africa Day ”
typified, as usual, the relation of soldier Tommy
to his gabful bosses. The bosses ate the luncheon,
the Sees, Reids, and O’Sullivans getting the same
heavy old speech off their chests. The ex-Tommies
looked on. Reid rubbed the insult in by telling
them that he hoped next year there might be
something for them to eat. The speeches were
mostly inaudible by reason of the disrespectful
yells of the ex-contingenters for their alleged
arrears of pay.
In view of all the disputes and recrimina-
tions about the reported doings of British
soldiers in South Africa, the matter
might be reduced, in some sense, to
a mathematical formula. Like this:
(1) Soldiers, in time of war, are likely
to be times less agreeable than in
time of peace—at least, war is sup-
posed to demoralise men and make
tnem indifferent to human suffering:
(2) They are likely to be
times less tender to enemies
than to their friends and
countrymen ; (3)
They are likely to be
times more un-
pleasant in a place
where, when they get
out by themselves,
they can do pretty
much as they please,
than in one where
there is a strong
police force to keep
order; (4) The mass
of the rank and
file is likely to be
times more
callous and unfeeling
than the “ good-conduct
men” who, by reason of
their good conduct, are
above the average.
Then take the con-
duct of the Imperial
“ good-conduct ” sol-
diers — the specially-
selected specimens who visited
Sydney at Commonwealth
time, and are still remem-
bered there. Say their
conduct was . Multi-
ply that blank by the
other blanks and you are
about there.
Governor Tenny-
son began his farewell
address to the just-
departed S.A. squad-
ron of the Federal army
with “ My soldiers of the
seventh contingent.” He
has evidently forgotten that
he isn’t even nominally commander-in-chief any
more, now that the military have passed from the
States to the Commonwealth.
Brisbane Courier, imploring the people
to stick to Philp of the Deficit:
Is it possible that the country will swap horses in
crossing the stream that lies ahead of us ? Dare we trust
ourselves to the party of experiment ?
Apparently the Courier doesn’t regard Philp’s
as the party .of experiment. Yet if increasing the
public expenditure by £1,200,000 a year inside
five years isn’t a mad enough experiment what is
an experiment? Did Opposition-leader Browne
ever propose anything half so experimental ?
FOND OF DISPLAY.
CONFIRMED CELIBATE No. 1: “I hear Jack Brown is to be married on
Tuesday." C.O. No. 2: “ Ceremonious beggar !”
It has been discovered, at this rather late
hour, that the awful yarn about the wholesale
outraging of Boer women and girls by British
soldiers was not a German but an American in-
vention. The tale started its tempestuous career
in a Jackson (Mississippi) paper away back in
May, 1901, and travelled a good deal round the
U.S. before the German got his spectacles on,
and read it, and was so horrified that it required
even more beer than usual to keep him up.
The S.A. Constitution Act, which has
just received the King’s assent, comes into force
on March 31, when all members of both Houses
vacate their seats and two Ministers go out of
office. The general elections for Council and
Assembly all take place on one Saturday in April.
Henceforth there are to be 18 Councillors instead
of 24, with 42 Assembly members in lieu of 54,
and only four Ministers as against six at’ present.
Judge Rogers (N.S.W.) the other day
suspended sentence on a returned contingenter
found guilty of a very mean theft (the stealing of
a workman’s tools) so that he might go back to the
war. “I should imagine,” said his Honor, “that
he would be a very good man among the Boers.”
Probably there are other Judges who recognise
that a thief is just the kind of man that is
required as the Hen-stealing War is now con-
ducted, and that he will be a congenial item in
congenial company. But very few Judges have
the courage, as Rogers had, to say it openly.
The particularly brilliant natui’e of the
Philp finance ! His manifesto to the electors
states :
It will be a grave reproach to us if at the close of this
decade there remains a single large estate in the vicinity
of the railway fit for agricultural settlement.
■And the same Philp passed an Act of Parliament
giving the Govt, power (which it had not before)
to sell lands in large estates right up to the railway
lines. The Philp plan, in short, is to sell land
and pay the proceeds into the revenue account,
then buy it back at a much higher rate out of loan
money.
The O’Sullivan crowing jubilautly that the
present N.S.W. Ministry was the first to proclaim
St. Patrick’s Day a public holiday is wrong. Be-
fore lunatic O’Farrell shot the Duke of Edin-
burgh at Olontarf in 1868, St. Patrick’s, St.
David’s and St. Andrew’s days were all pro-
claimed holidays. After that Parkes wiped all
out—a worthy action, though with a bad motive.
St. George’s Day was never a holiday, has indeed
been only recalled to memory in these late de-
generate days. It is to the credit of the English-
man that he is generally above that sort of folly,
anyhow.
The Sydney Telegraph of Ist March,
1902, says something that The Bulletin drew
attention to a good six years earlier :
Mr. Reid created a 30 years’ loan expenditure on
works nob properly chargeable to debt, because his
revenues were insufficient.
Considering that the Telegraph incited Reid, in
the importers’ interests, to leave himself with
insufficient revenue by abolishing Dibbs’s tariff,
and lied like all the sons of Ananias in support of
the honesty of Reid’s finance, and jeered with a
loud, vacant jeer at everybody who called Reid’s
doings in question, and swore that Reid had
abundance of revenue and a genuine surplus, what
good is this belated discovery now ?
Premier Peacock makes a feeble pretence
of inquiring into the question of amalgamation of
certain Victorian municipalities. During last
session Prendergast, M.L. A., obtained a promise
from the Govt, that a Royal Commission would
be appointed. Gillott, Attorney-General and
Mayor of Melbourne, was opposed to Prendergast’s
proposal; because he knew it was aimed at forcing
Melbourne to join with some of the weaker
suburban municipalities— among them North
Melbourne. Gillott in Cabinet has been allowed
to nominate the members of the Commission, and
these members are so distinctly Tory that when
Prendergast saw the names he declined to accept
a proffered seat on the Commission. The inquiry
will be a farce, and Peacock knows it better than
anyone else.
A Jingo revi-
val is being orga-
nised in the New-
castle (N.S.W.)-
district with some
degree of success.
Its main promo-
ters are men (some
of them of the
Labor party) who
are either jealous
of Arthur Gri-
ffith, or covet his
Waratah seat.
Besides, there is
among the Nor-
thern miners a
strong pro-Gore
party—not neces-
sarily anxious for
Boer gore, but
anybody’s gore—
men of the dog-
fighting, cock-
fighting, rat-pit-
ting breed, who
believe in “blood-
ing their pups
and regard any
amusement with
blood and bash in
it as more than
commendable
There is something unbelievable about
that cablegram as published by many Aus-
tralian dailies last week, which alleged that
the British authorities had transported General
Viljoen—“fighting Ben Viljoen ” —to St. Helena
for life. He had no trial, and nothing has been
alleged against him except that he is an Afrikan-
der and one of the grandest patriots and fighting
men of the 19th century. If Britain could
possibly treat such a man as a mere criminal, it
would have got down to a depth of degradation
so low that even Joseph Surface of Birmingham
could hardly drag it lower. The Russians,
in the dark ages of over 100 years ago, treated'
Kosciusko more generously than that.
The meat contract, and the cold invitation
to drop in at the Coronation if he happened to be
passing, have done something to reduce Premier
Peacock’s Jingo swelled head.' After his stupid-
declaration that a White Australia was a little
concern alongside of Britain’s desire to foregather
with the brown men of Asia, and his other
breakings-out, Peacock expected better treatment.
Still, it seems that old M'Culloch, Minister for
Works, who didn’t receive even the most frozen,
kind of invitation, will go to London. M‘Culloch
hankers badly after a decoration, that he may
hang it on his bedpost to soothe his declining
years, and he unfortunately failed to catch York’s
eye during the recent visit. York had a difficult
eye to catch.
The National Liberal Union of Q., a weak-
ling developed from Philp’s foundling, the
National Ass, is having a cold time up North.
In Brisbane South the blatant Jackannear was de-
feated in the election of an Ass candidate, and'
straightway called a meeting of malcontents
and declared his intention of being a National Ass
candidate whether the Ass wants him or not. At
Fortitude Valley “ Jock ” Mac Master, a rebellious-
grocer, is doing the same, and a want of discipline
is visible all round. The Labor party meanwhile
devotes all its energies to prevent “dead” being
placed against its supporters’ names on the various
electoral rolls. But it isn’t doing much good.
Even one of its leading candidates has been struck
off the roll by the shameless Boodlephilp gang on
the ground that he is dead.
If the M.L. Opposition doesn’t raise a
row over the scandalous appointments to the Bth
and 9th contingents, it had better go out of the
business, for it can’t oppose hard enough to hinder
a grasshopper. Such flagrant jobbery hasn’t been
known in Maoriland for the last 30 years. One
special case, out of many, is that of the son of a
big Hebrew brewer. This youth had never been
even in a volunteer corps, and rides like a
Jew (the Hebrew was a good pedestrian soldier
once, but he knew so much about his deficiencies
on horseback that he put a special clause in his
religion prohibiting the horse, so tbat he wouldn’t
have to get on it). He is made a lieutenant. And
the other commissions mostly go to rich men’s
sons with no experience and a tendency to hang
on by the mane.
The voice of Liberty is not quite smothered"
in Maoriland. One well-known Auckland weekly
dares to print this about the departure of the
eighth contingent:
The general opinion expressed was that the time had-
arrived when the colony should cease the cruel and,
indeed,.criminal deportation of our young men. Maori-
land had no hand in bringing about the war, and as a re-
markable coincidence, when we were engaged in war with
the Maoris the Imperial troops were withdrawn, and the
inhabitants were left to fight out their own destiny. The-
Premier should abstain from further Jingoism and the
gag about the “ unity of the Empire” and the “claims
of Imperialism,” and such highfalutin’ bunkum and play-
ing up to the gallery-. We are weary of it. With
237,800 men in arms against a comparatively- infinitesimal
number of the Boers, surely- it is fair to presume that
England has at present sufficient material, properly
handled, to do the trick without further calls on-
Maoriland.
N.S.W. Public Service Board has given
another little surprise to the Service. In 1898
the Board instituted regulations providing for a
yearly £lO increase to members of the clerical
division qualifying by a set examination and a
certificate of competency from the departmental
head. The idea was manifestly impracticable
from the start, and it soon broke down—in fact,
it was apparently only invented to help George
Reid at a difficult election. On December
31, 1900, these regulations were repealed.
Later, the Board calmly announced that its
gazette of 31st December, 1900, was to date six
months back, to 30th June, 1900, so that increases
earned in the interval would be cancelled. This
was clearly an act of repudiation, and, on the
grievance being discussed, Parliament agreed
to vote funds to pay the sum of £5 docked
from them to each of,th,e public servants affected.
Tlie Board asked for £l5OO to cover all demands,
and that sum was at once voted. Now the Board
has tardily published a list of those entitled to the
£5, and announces that it has allotted to each fifty
shillings. Of course, there will be a row, and after
a long series of appeals and explanations the
other 50s. may be wormed out of the Board in
1903. But it is easier to collect money from a
Scotch Jew named Aaron McDonald than to get
the P.S. Boai-d to be squaye in its dealings.


The Pianola will play any piano .
one can play it .
Zffc (ptanofa
And What It Means to the
Heretofore Passive Listener
his
of
A NY ONE CAN BE A PLAYER and individualize
own identity in his rendition of the piece.
% It stands as the “open door” to the world
JL .fIL music—its delights, its influences, its education.
The prohibitory tariff of years of patient and tedious
practicing to acquire the technical ability of striking
the right note at the right time has been completely wiped away.
Of the “ technique ” the Pianola is complete master.
In “tempo” and “expression” it is your servant and as
responsive as the human fingers, which, after all, are but finely
adjusted mechanism controlled by the mind.
It is the only piano-player which appeals to musicians
well as novices.
No other piano-player has ever received the endorsement
a musician.
This fact, coupled with the source of pleasure it opens
every household, should induce every one to investigate it.
as
of
to
a^ e co . rdlal, y invited to call and hear this wonderful instrument. We keep a
staff pf assistants whose sole duty is to show the Pianoia and iEolian to visitors,
to explain and to play these instruments. We are glad to show the Pianola
to the merely curious as well as to the intending purchaser.
1/ unable to call, write for Catalogue O
HENRY M. BIRGE & CO.,
Sole Agents for Australasia,
323 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Pianola is sold at no other address
in Sydney.
m
Twelve Yea.es a Sufferer.
Doctors Differed.
VITADATIO
CURED.
Read Mr. Edward Ellis’ Testimony.
Newcastle. April 24, 1900.
Mr. S. A. PALMER.
Dear Sir,—For the past twelve years I have been a
sufferer. I-have' been treated by doctors in Wallsend,
Hamilton, Sydney, Rockhampton, and various places, but
without success ; they all failed to diagnose my case.
Some said I.Suffered from kidneys out of order, ulcers on
stomach—enlarged liver—pleurisy, &c. ; but VITADATIO
soon showed the disease, and I am now heavier than ever
I was in my life. The hydatids have come away in great
quantities, as witness to this I have given two bottles of
same to your manager in Newcastle. I am thankful for
the good health VITADATIO has given me, and will be
willing at all times tcj tell others of its marvellous virtues.
(Signed) EDWARD ELLIS,
Vitau-street, Lambton, N.S.W.
Formerly of Rockhampton, Queensland.
Witness—W. J. FIST,
Hunter-street, Newcastle.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials
AUSTRALIAN .. .
STAMPS
Highest Cash Prices Paid
to any amount for
Old or Rare Stamps,
Used or Unmed. '
The First
Australian Stamp.
For Sale—The Largest. Stock of STAMPS, ALBUMS, etc.,
In the Southern Hemisphere.
BMYTH & NICOLLE, 14 Hunter-st., Sydney
We Don’t Supply
the Wind.
VERT LITTLE NEEDED WITH
h
The “gen” Windmill
AMERICA’S GREAT GALVANISED FLYER
. . WITH . .
GALVANISED STEEL TOWER.
Absolutely the Highest Grade Windmill on the
market. Estimates furnishedfor Mill and Pump
complete.'
M'LEAN BROS. & RIGG LTD.
Melbourne & Sydney.
COLLECTIVE INVESTIGATION.—The ex-
Eerience of millions of people in all quarters of the
abitable globe during the last quarter-of-a-century
has confirmed the value of Hunyadi Janos as the
best and safest natural aperient. Invaluable to
diners-out.*
Some people have no reverence for hoards,
or even for aldermen—in fact, there have beeil
cases of disrespectful allusion to a Town Clerk.
A Sussex-street (Sydney) firm has written to the
Government stating that its locality,is dirtier now
that the State has resumed it than it was before.
And the Sydney Municipal Council has received
cheek and back-talk from a person in an office
somewhere, who says that the municipal rat
poison isn’t fatal after all, and that the gladdened
rats are saving it up to tide them over the winter.
The man who claimed that he used to
wake himself at exactly the same time every
morning bv mechanically pulling in his sleep a
string connected with the spring blind in his room
—take breath—was a liar. And it is a lie of our
own that there ever was such a man; but our
innocent idea was to lead up to an advertisement
of our nickel-plated alarm clocks with 4in. dials,
post free, ss. M‘Lean Bros. & Rigg, Ltd., 107
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne.*
Put it to the credit of the little party of
Laborites in the Westralian Assembly that it
alone voted solidly against the proposal to pay the
Governor £2OOO beer money; and put it to the
credit of Opposition leader Nansen, that, though
most of his party forsook him, he moved the omis-
sion of the item. Even without the beer allow-
ance this handful of people pays the Gov. £4OOO a
year, besides providing him with free housing,
free staff, free telegrams, free lighting, free water,
free stationery, and other free things too numerous
to mention in one issue.
The fifth and last test-match has been
fought and won, and, for the present, the question
of supremacy in The Imperial Sport (caps., please,
and nevermind “The muddied oaf”) is decided.
But no such series of tests is nowadays needed to
prove the supremacy of D.C.L. Whisky. In pro-
viding mankind with wholesome inspiration in
business, in love, in politics, and poetry, D.C.L.
is the great Imperial beverage. As the keen old
experts of Maoriland say—“ The Whisky of the
Wise,” of the wise in general, and the wisest in
particular.*
Treasurer Turner, unveiling a monument
to a Victorian ex-contingenter the other day :
They did not stop to inquire whether the war was
justifiable or not. It was enough that it had the support
of the press, people and Parliament of Great Britain.
Turner should read Kipling’s ballad of Tomlinson,
the stodgy, conventional, bell-toppered ghost who
never thought for himself, but followed, sheep-
like, in the wake of the majority. Turner is
supposed to be some kind of a religious man.
When his spectacled wraith appears on the
Judgment Day, if there is one, how does he think
the above excuse will serve to explain the blood
that is on his baldish head? There is unlimited
excuse for the man who does wrong thinking it is
right, but the man who acknowledges that he
started killing other people by deputy, without
inquiring whether it was right or not, but merely
because the Jingoes of Britain said it was right,
is a witless and gory oaf, and the ghost of Tom-
linson is his brother.
Martin’s Apiol and Steel Pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia, price 4s. 6d.
Agents: Sayers, Allport, and Potter, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor, W. Martin, Pharmaceutical
Chemist, Southampton, England.*
CALLAGHAN
SHOE
THIS SHOE IS PHOTO-
GRAPHED FROM STOCK.
LADIES
Comfort
and
Long
Wear
can be
Relied
upon.
m
: <
-»^<2E- == »
Special design in our own Shoe,
made of American glace-kid, with
an up-to-date stylish toe-cap of patent
leather, and having the newly-fashioned
Collarette, as shown in the engraving.
12/11; post paid, 13/6.
Ladies ordering from the country can quite easily
get new and stylish Shoes BY POST ; they can get
all the advantages in value that keen city competi-
tion affords ; they can, by following the instructions we
give below, get an accurate, comfortable fit.
1. State size of Shoe worn, and, if necessary, send an old one as a
check.
2. Place the foot upon a piece of paper and, firmly pressing it
down, draw a pencil line closely round it for shape of tread.
8. State if your foot is narrow, medium, or broad, as we have
different widths in every size of boot.
4. State whether broad, medium, or narrow toes required.
CALLAGHAN BOOTS OR SHOES can be EXCHANGED if not correct,
as we wish DISTANT Customers to be as pleased as those in town.
Your Money RETURNED if you are not satisfied with the Shoes.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 George St., Sydney
A Victorian in the fifth contingent relates
that, on New Year’s night, a body of them sallied
forth, and, early next morning, the Boers captured
about 30. After going through them for every-
thing, and swopping clothes, the Dutchmen let
t iem go. One Boer surprised the narrator of this
yarn by remarking, in a tone that seemed familiar,
“ Now, old man, the best thing for you is to do a
get back' to camp ; it’s a good distance.” The
Victorian regarded him more closely, and was
suddenly “flabbergasted.” “Why, blime, it
can’t be Bill -—But the Boer just then re-
membered that he had other business, and lost no
time in congealing himself among his comrades.
This was what the Family ’Erald would call “a
strange recontre.”
A squalid, two-roomed tenement, lately
discovered in a cul-de-sac of Wellington (M.L.),
sheltered two married couples, who occupied a
room apiece, and a man who slept in one of the
apartments on a sofa. The occupant of the sofa
paid the rent.
At the inquiry as to the management of Pt.
Halswell (M.L.) gaol, one of the prisoners stated
that the blankets were so infested with fleas that
it was necessary to kill them with sticks. Even
the inseoticide money has apparently been spent
on war,
‘ ‘ Pleasure steamers and yachts are now
being fitted,” writes The Bulletin’s London
correspondent, “ with turbine screws for motive
power, with highly-satisfactory results as regards
speed and the comparative coal consumption.
On the Clyde estuary a passenger steamer has
steamed 12,116 miles at the rate of knots for
8'47 tons of coal per mile. She has five turbine
screw propellers, and is 250 ft. long by 30 wide.
As most people know, the turbine screw is practi-
cally a shaft with a screw at the water end, the
whole being encased in a sealed cylinder. The
shaft is decked like a porcupine, with blades so
arranged that on the raw steam, generated by the
furnace, being driven into the cylinder, it hits on
the blades, forcing the shaft to revolve. The
driven flow of steam is continuous, and is forced
the whole length of the cylinder, still imparting
motion to the screw, until it escapes under water.
Of three new steam turbine yachts now being con-
structed, one is to do 24 knots, while another is to
be of 700 tons measurement and 1500 horse power.”
| Returned cohentingenter, describing Boer
| tactics: “Yes, the blankers ! They rise out of
! the blanky ground, and blanky well empty their
blanky magazines into us, and then the blankers
blanky well do a blanky get! ” (“Blanky” ex-
tremely varied.)
Of late years, the notice, “No English
need apply,” has been a common sight in the east
end of London, the cheap foreigners being pre-
ferred as wage-slaves. British workers are begin-
ning, therefore, to have some understanding of,
and sympathy with, Australian objections to alien
immigration.
Since last New Year’s Day marriage in
New York State became possible at the cost of a
shilling. Under a new Act, the parties have
merely to sign a certificate that they are man and
wife, in the presence of any notary, who is limited
to a charge of 25 cents. Even this fee attracts
some of the lower-class lawyers, who are already
advertising that marriage is “ now within the
reach of all.”
Just when such great efforts are being
made to point out that it is quite impossible that
British troops could give way to cruelty or blood-
thirsty fury, or loot and burn houses because they
liked doing it, or slay when there was no need of
slaying, we come across inopportune little things
like these. Says the Indian Planters’ Gazette :
Should we slay our brother Boer? 'He should be slain
with the same ruthlessness that they slay a plague-in-
fected rat. Exeter Hall may shriek, but there will be
plenty of it and the more the better. -Tire Boer resistance
will enable us to find an excuse to blot out the Boers as a
nation and turn their land into a vast shambles.
The correspondent of a London daily writes in
.favor of looting:
Next to the fierce joy of fighting, that of satisfying the
primeval instinct of robber-man is the highest pleasure
which war affords. Add the promise of plunder to the
certainty of a fight and you increase by tenfold the
efficiency of any army in the world. If war is right, then,
in ancase let the boys loot. If for policy or principle it
be wise to let a man murder, then let him for his private
gratification be a thief.
The correspondent of the Morning Post writes:
I felt a joy of satisfaction when the smoke (of a rebel’s
farm) went up. . . . These unkempt, ill-conditioned
rebels, these human vermin, have been treated as though
on a level with respectable Kaffirs. ... A beast of a
rebel was getting his deserts. ■ . >
Captain Barker (Montreal Herald) writes :
We had a pleasant little fight on New Year’s Day . . .
we killed fourteen Boers . . . others fell with pleasing
little holes in them. . . . The Boers who remained brought
out white flags and threw down their arms: I would have
let the beggars have the bayonet at that, only Colonel
Richards stopped us.
When British papers advocate the extermination
of the enemy, also thieving, murder, the turning of
the land into a shambles, and such like, why get
so excited because certain Germans talk about us
in a somewhat similar strain ?
The plaint of a young member of the
London Sports Club re Kipling’s latest poem :
The worst of it is that you’re not safe to do anything
without old Kipling finds some fancy name for 3’ou. I
don’t quite know what I am. I play cricket for my
county, so I suppose I’m a “ flannelled fool ” ; I play half-
back for the school', so that makes me a “ muddied oaf ” ;
and when I went out with the first lot of Yeomanry he
called me an “ absent-minded beggar.” And look at my
young brother. He’s everything that I am, and in addi-
tion to that he’s just got his commission in the Marines.
So he’s a “ sort of giddy Harumfradite,” besides all the
rest. Old Kipling is getting to be too much of a slogger.
Somebody ought to tell him.


Banking, Public Companies, ftc.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.-^.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
ĥ
ħ
h
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
3xr.s,-w.
(Qont deplete OJ|. (Jo., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74. CASTI.ER.EA6H ST., 74.
‘ SYDNEY '
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Till?
Colonial Mutual laife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Medial Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - * 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, .Chairman; lion. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Briick Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,491,989.
Policies issued 85,372—assuring £26,085,346.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,576,850.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling'. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office:
*l9 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
Pe Bank of |orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250 900 ... £350,000
Queensland Smelting (Jumpy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
TJUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
Hem Zealand Insurance (Jo.
FIRE and MARINE.
CAPITAL £1,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES .. 420,000
Largest Colonial Com,pang.
J. A. MINNETT,
Manager.
81 Pitt St., Sydney.
Trustees, €*€c<itorS,
AND
AgSOCV CoiDpaoy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £l5O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) £BB5B 7 3
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 30th June, 1901 ... £6,388,976 5 3
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq.';
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORItOWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Managei
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Royal Bank of Queensland
LIMITED. “
CAPITAL PAID-UP £423 000
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 209,581
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 54,000
£686,581
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Equitable Building's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. ..£2,500,000
Directors—Sydney : Sir W. M’Millan, Hon. A. W. Misaks.
Adelaide : L. A. Jkssop, Esq. Wellington : H.
Bkabchamp, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M’Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. w"
Farquhar ; Wellington, N.Z., C. M. Montefiore.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
BAVINQS BANK IN VICTORIA
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £15,000, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties,
and £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
GENTS.^-
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address.— L.D.l., 300 Collins 3t>, Melbourne
T he
Shipping.
HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE 1
GEELONG ]
PORTLAND h
WARRNAMBOOL J ]
ADELAIDE
Peregrine, Safe., March 8, 12 Noon.
Buninyong, Tues., March 11, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, March 15,12 Noon.
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Buninyong, Tues., March 18, 5
p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Buninyong, Tues., March 18, 5 p.m.
(No Transhipment.)
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Tyrian, Saturday, March 8,12 Noon.
Gabo, Tuesday, March, 11 5 p.m
Peregrine, Sat., March 15,12 Noon
GLADSTONE
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Tyrian, Saturday, March 8,12 Noon
Peregrine, Sat., March 15,12 Noon.'
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’, Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Gariro
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets. 8
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
TN€ ABCRPCCN LIN€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and Co., London).
To Natal, Capetown and London.
(Calling at Plymouth.)
. T Jl e , magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL. CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows
ĥ
All the above have splendid accommodation, and will
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
of the RedSea* r ° Ute t 0 L ° nd ° n wi " aVoid the heat
Only Ist and 3rd-class passengers carried.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY
Huddart, Parker $ Co’s [ine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBAItT,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA.
NEW ZEALAND POUTS.
Fa.res and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
a. 3xr r>
&
a
LINE
via
San Francisco,
California.
. BPLENDID NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERB.
SIERRA
SONOMA
VENTURA
Over 6000 Tons each.
8000 H.P.
Length, 425 feet,
Passengers booked through to American, Canadian and
European centres at current rates.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts. SYDNEY.
time table.
THREE-WEEKLY BERVIGE.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
IN CONNECTION WITH
CANADIAN-PACIFIC RAILWAY.
THE “ ALL-RED ” ROUTE
via Brisbane, Fiji, Honolulu,
Vancouver .
STEAMERS SAIL—
March 24, April 21, May 19.
Cheapest Eates to America.
Special Rates, Single and
Return to London.
Send for Illustrated Pamphlet Descriptive of route .
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
Cheapest House In Australia for JJDISON
PHOnOGRfIPHSand RECORDS
REEVES & CO.
KINO WILLIAM STREET, ADELAIDE.
“BlJOU,”*with 6 Records 7 c
EDISON " 24 Records • • 5 10 O
, Wlt h 30 Records.. .. 810 O
OOMBINA-TiON A 1 “ GRAND,” taking both
Large and Small Records, with 12 Records,
(siin.) Records, and Large Horn to 10 O
p Z do °
Send for Cata-
logues contain-
ing 5000 Selec-
tions to choose
from. Illustra-
ted Catalogues
of Electric Fans
(complete with
Battery, £5),
Electric. Bike
Lamps, Flash-
Lights,Scarf-Pin
Lights, Vapour
Bath Cabinets,
etc., Free.
Becords can
be posted to any
address, postage
1/6 per dozen.
ħ
Machines carefully packed and forwarded to any part of
Australasia.
DRUNKENNCSS,
of£ THE LIQUOR HABIT POSITIVELY CURED
BY ADMINISTERING
E XT C R A S Y.
It can be given secretly or otherwise in tea, coffee, or
food, and is the only remedy which can be taken at
home with certainty of success.
A REPORT!—After the first dose he was a different
*■ man. Newcastle, N.S.W.—Dear Sir,—My husband
has been taking Eucrasy regularly for five days, with the
result that it has taken away the desire for drink of any
kind ; in fact, after the first dose he seemed a different
man. (Signed) K.E.R.
Write for book and testimonials from living witnesses :
sent (sealed) Free. Address!—
THE EUCRASY CO.,
62 HUNTER-ST, SYDNEY.
N.Z. Agency : ROBERT HEW, Victoria-st., Auckland.
The Ways of Many Waters
By E. J BRADY.
N. X>. L.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples Genoa
London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports. ’ ’
h
t . „ *iwin screw,
eaving MELBOURNE Wednesday after Sydney.
• t.t. REGULAR SERVICE to SINGAPORE
ma BRIB BANE TOWNSVILLE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW
GUINEA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA
THE NEW N.D.L.
G.M.S. PAKNAM, 1950 Tons,
LEAVING SYDNEY ON 19ch MARCH.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Siieed
Cu?sne an CIVITTTT’ ™ Sent
tothe AgenS 1, fUrther partioulftrs ap P^
stSSne ( !- HMANN & °°- LIMITED - 7 9 Bridge-
-30 Days’ Trial.
ĥ
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
HELPS and
APPLIANCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEU-
I lire ERA.” Our Electric
fleits will cure all NER-
OUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Hells give a sleady sooth-
ing current that can he
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If j t does not we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactlv
no™ 7 * d ° preo i Bel .y we promTse Ct ' y
NOTICE.-Before purchasing we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), (rilin'!
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES’
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical. ’
Address :
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
18
/ /
r.
rf ■ power 18 P ,lced « your
disposal in Hypnotism-the power to conti-ol
others—to relieve disease— to make friends
. money—and gratify your
k • Y °“ may become » commanding
S“‘" i f h ™?" t “y- la fact, there is so much
written ! tw“ ,e J* you abou < it that I have
illusions fM that P^P os4 ' lt 3*
•*!»“« *> '»• haedsS^sS?S'«CS r hyP °°"‘
drL£*o? dSSht2 o S*ntf'l •» America. Hun-
them '
u ao reason why you should not * her *
«*■» as I um. “ goo<f 4 H >P B *
waMS3S. il !. , f£ l , S* b - ««pa Vo.
» plioa cover. Absolutely Freel P-Wd -
marettan a, e , bakrwotom,
dw.'lca. Ot«u« NrMMttM.
COri./v« . Mjr* »
Fair girls and gray hors wa
2nd Edition. Price 4/6. HOUSES
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
* OK MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
JtSPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping' at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S, Wollowra,
Saturday, March 15.
(without transhipment).
S.S. Rockton,
Friday, March 7.
BRISBANE
mackay
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
irns f
S.S. Adelaide,
Saturday, March 8.
™ nd Cheapest Itoute to Goldfields.
j Pn-.. R^f 8 5^ e *' lo * cefcB are interchangeable after the
steamed# between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A.U.S.N. Co. and Howard Smith Co.,
chano-oii"! A< W e and W.A. all tickets are inter-
ditlons to L Wlth th , e .A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
R 8l VUILU & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THIS POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
MFI Ror C 7n4r 6ir Ma^ Steamship* as under.
MELBOURNE a no COOKTOVVN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
Ro«ro? e ‘ r ’ J ?}' wbane . Rockhampton, Mackay,
Tnw N r ’, T ° WnSVl,,e ' Cairns, and Port Douglas.
Wnm^ ILLE „ LOOAL TOUTS-Weekly.
IvnSrv ANU ®°CK HAMPTON — Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN Every 3 via Bris
and Nornmnton. ’ C °° ktown > Thursday Island,
IvnMPv’ CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly
AND A MELBOURNE, Weekly. y ’
‘ Fortnightly. LAlDE "" WEST AUSTRALIA,
Passenger A ccomniodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
firftnnrt hPh 3a?e at < i£ ets are interchangeable after the
of the Adelaide £ and Cairns with the steamers
subiecAot d r?' S ' G ?' i '? an >' and W - H. Smith and Sons,
For J Adelnfdi dlfc l? n «r t0 A be ascertaine 'l on application.
nlL Ad n ldea »d W. Australia all tickets are inter-
mfpMQ 6 h Tr tbe Adelaide S.S. Co. only,
street ? nd CO, Ltd., Agents, 111 Bridge-
Porta
AND O. COMPANY’S
two ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
on?he! rS t, - S - S T, 1 ? SIRIS t° r Brindisi), leave Sydney
Main T inf dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main L, ne Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
- FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
Steamer.
♦OCEANA ..
♦BRITANNIA
♦AUSTRALIA
ROME
HIMALAYA ..
6898 VV. L. Broun, R.N.R.
I Sydney,
| Noon
March 19
April 2
[April 16
May 3
May 17
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B 10s to £/7
s^&s^j^sssssss^-^
p iff of , EDWARD TRELAWNY,
_ Superintendent in Australia.
Messageries Maritime s
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS
Tf ,®‘ ea ' n ® ra of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
s oallln,ir at MELBOUBNE, ade.
£ AI £R, . , 1E COLOMBO, SUEZ, and POUT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows • -
ħ
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77
including- table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them even- assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
80 *'^ leiu 10 Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Office*
Queen s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R - BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
“E. ANP A.” LIME.
. . TO . .
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Steamer. [Tns i Commander.
AUSTRALIAN
GUTHRIE
EASTERN
AIRLIE
Leave Sydney.
March
.. 3000 P. T. Helms
• • 2500 \V. G. M‘Arthur.. April
.. 3600 Winthrop Ellis ..jMa.v
25005 t. John George.. May
The above steamers were specially built for the Eaiteru
trade - and are fitted with EVERY CON-
\ ENIENCE FOR TROPICAL TRAVELLING.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates in con*
Companies k the Canadlan * Pacific ancl other Steamship
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents
eastern and Australian sfs. co!" ld.’
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
SMOKE . .
THE
<9°
&
h
ĥ
ħ
&
INSIST
having this Brand
and no other.
AGENTS
JULIUS SOLD SCHMIDTS. CO.
231 Clarence Street, Sydney.


Ex-King Prempeh of Ashanti, who is now
interned at Seychelles, is so enamoured of the
Sictures of Joe Chamberlain that he has sent to
Ingland for a monocle, a frock-coat, and other
essentials to that imitation which is the sincerest
form of flattery. Orchids grow locally. “Of
course you can never be like us, but be as like us
as you’re able to be.”
Marwood, the predecessor of the late
English hangman, Billington, possessed a certain
savage humor. When responding to a number of
pressmen who formally congratulated him on his
appointment, possibly with leg-pulling intent, he
expressed the hope that he would yet have the
pleasure of hanging a reporter.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEE
w ßh OUI^ 8 that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have trieu, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
lfalloved to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
t 0 amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURL YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PiLLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
in Great Britain, l/ljd. per b-x. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents •. ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
"Ml Try It
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
(apillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
fit \ m
The Result.
CRAIG & AITKE N. N.S.W. Barber’s Supply
House. 680-682 CEORQE STREET, SYDNEY.
XJSB
SPOONER’S
SPOONER’S
<
*
*
IHTT.NT LEATHER BOOTS
GLAZED MI0& M
£,«m«4**»** r»* »««
- V*»U* »•' t»'4 «»***<Ai
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EM3ROCATI3N,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing's,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
h
PLAIN NOM€ TALK
EMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1200 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1901 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted to any address for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
The Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s Gd.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, is posted.
SEcrets of Ancient and Modern Magic, Is 6d, post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang, (only true historj'), Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, Ss 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
Balzac’s Droll Stories, Is 3d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid.
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is 3d.
Pa, Ma and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music complete), Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Metal Working, Brazing, etc., Is 3d.
Send for my Illustrated Big: Book
atalogrue—post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Svdnr*.
m
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life* Have you utterly
■Tailed in your efforts to regain Health?
The Langston Regenerator
WILL CURE
YOU
Its effects are almost instantaneous and the good results go
on increasing from day to day.
Health, Vigor, Strength
for all who
desire it.
OLD SURGEON LANGSTON,
Member Royal College of Surgeons, England, permanently located in
Melbourne since 1880, originator of the Regenerate* treatment, has so
perfected his method that it has revolutionised the art of Healing
and it can almost be said there are no Hopeless or incurable
cases.
Are You a Sufferer
from bad health in
any of its many forms?
Do you feel nervous, fretful, timid and lack the power of will and
action ? Are you subject to loss of memory, broken sleep, feel listless
moping, and subject to fits of melancholy ? Are your kidneys, stomach, urinary organs, liver or blood in a
disordered condition ? Do you feel generally debilitated ? Do you suffer from Rheumatism, Neuralgia or other
aches or pains?
Do not fail to have the Doctor diagnose your case. If you are Unfamiliar with the Regenerator treatment
prepared in his own laboratory, which is annually curing: thousands, send at once for full information ■
it is absolutely free.
Seels tlie Truth., it costs HXTotliing t
No matter what you are suffering from, the Regenerator restores the shattered constitution
like magic.
All communications are considered sacredly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, MißiG>Si| Eng., cor. Russell & Coilins Sts,, Mslbourns
Dr. Clarkson’s Electric Belt
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Dr. Clarkson’s Re-Invigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
vigour.
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
peptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
parts, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-INVIGORATOR
* •
Xf
will bring happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and (Wans is f,nlv W nnH«rf,ii
THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC. organs is truly wonaerrui.
Price—ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
CALL OR WRITE- ■
CUT
RATE
DKXJG STORE
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
wm
MB
1
r.
&
G«|'
wsmk
wm
M
m
HERR RASSMUSSEN (HANS PETER RASMUSSEN),
The Celebrated Danish Botanist.
Proprietor and Discoverer of the World-Famed Alialine Herbal Remedies,
which have been the means of elfjcting the most marvellous Cures for Blood,
Skin and Nervous Diseases ever hoard of in Australia.
Herr Rassmussen’s Australian Career:
It is about Twenty Years since Herb
Rassmussen introduced his Herbal Remedies
to the Australian Public. At that tune
he was only known to the public as a Botanist
pure and simple, having devoted almost his
whole life to the study of that most useful
and interesting branch of science. It how-
ever, soon dawned on Herr Rassmussen that
immense virtues existed in ma y pi mts which
were entirely unknown to tm-uical men, and
that it was his duty towards his fellow man
to bring these new discovered Herbal Remedies
within the means of suffering humanity.
Herr Rassmussen at once set to work,
and his entire energy was directed towards
extracting the medical properties from all
kinds of plants, and putting them up in the
most suitable and practical form, according
to the nature of the complaints which they
had been found a cure for.
Pills and Powders were fodnd to be the
most practical form to administer these new
Herbal Remedies.
It is unnecessary to particularise here the
immense success Herb Rassmussen met with
in his venture twenty years ago ; suffice it to
say that in less than twelve months the
great and wonderful cures brought about by
his Alfaline Plerbal Remedies Were known
throughout Australia, New Zealand, and many
other parts of the world. Testimonials and
Honors arrived from all parts. Gold Medals
f om Paris and other plac s were awarded, and
Hkkr Rassmussen’s name has been a house-
hold word ever since.— (Sydney Press*)
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Herbal Remedies!
ALFAUNE VITALITY PILLS
are a guaranty 1 cure for all Nervous Di eases-
Weak Spine, Brain ar. 1 Nerv- s, Poor Memory
Tired Feeling, Melancholia, Spots before i he
Eyes, etc. Boxes, 6/- and 12/-; courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS
are a permanent cure for Wasting Disea-es in
Women, Anaemia, and a perfect Blood and
Nerve Tome Boxes. 6/-& 1 2/-; courses, 23/6,
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS
are a permanent cure for all Chronic Blood
and Skin Diseases, Blotches, lllood Disorders,
Diseases of the Uiii ary Organs, Gravel, &c.
Boxes, 6/- and 12/-; courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE LIVER & KIDNEY PILLS
cure Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulence,
Heartburn, Wind, Biliousness and Headache.
Boxes, One Shilling.
ALFALINE RHEUMATIC PILLS.
Guaranteed to cure Rheumatism, Gout,
Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted 3/-,
6/-, 12/- & 23/6. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
ALFALINE ASTHMA & COUGH PILLS.
A wondetful remedy for Coughs, Colds, Con-
sumption, Bronchitis, Influ nza and Asthma.
Boxes, posted, 3/-, 6/-, 12/-& 23/6.
GENERAL REMEDIES.
Alfaline- Pile Powders, cure internal and
external Piles, boxes 3/- and 6/- ; Varicocele
Powders, boxes 6/-; Blood Capsules or
Globulus, 6/- ; Fat-Reducing Powders, which
removes corpulency, 6/- ; Hair Restorer, 6/-;
Corn Cure, 1/- ; Ointment, 1/-; Eucalyptus
Oil and Jujubes, boxes 1/- ; Flesh-Producing
Powders, 6/- j Worm Tablets, 1/- ; Headache
Tablets, 1/- ; Electric Belts, Suspenders,
Bandages, etc. Circulars with all particulars
sent Free.
REMEDIES BY POST A SPECIALTY.
HERR RASSMUBSEN has made special arrangements for attending
personally to his Clients living in the Country, and Letters will reoeive
most careful attention. .
His Remedies will he forwarded to sufferers, packed in plain cover and
unobserved, together with Advice and Directions. Letters should be addressed
to Herr Rassmussen’s full name—HANS PETER RASMUSSEN—and
Registered if containing Money.
Herr Rassmussen’s Addresses:
Head Office: 547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
ALSO AT
MELBOURNE—ISO Bourke Street
BRISBANE—3O9 Queen Street
ADELAIDE—IS Pulteney Street
N.Z.—9l Lambton Quay, Wellington
W.A.—PERTH— IBI Hay Street
KALGrOORLIE— Hannan Street
BOULDER ClTY— Piesse Street
FREMANTLE— II7 High Street
A TREE BOOK SENT ON APPLICATION,
with Advice, Testimonials, and List of Alfaline Remedies.


Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER .
G<>
REUTER’S
LITTLE
RILLS
FOR THE LIVER.
%
JOHN
“THREE-STAR” WHISKEY.
Agents : J. BAKRE JOHNSTON & CO., Loftus Street
A STRONG
FLIER
THE RED BIRD
t“v^“ S T "I 8 ’ ° f the flneBt materlalB P rocurab,e - Every part of a Red Bird
is accurately finished and of most simple construction. We sell for Cash or on Easy Terms.
GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King Street, Sydney.
f
s
Absolutely Pure;
Adelaide:
CURRIE BTREET
A
Fully Matured
Melbourne:
COLLINS STREET
700 Medals, etc.
Sydney :
GROSVENOR STREET
SPORTING NOTIONS.
y® ar ’ as the Newmarket Handicap
fell to a nag- which looked the best of good thin«-s on
form and once again punters were reminded tha°t the
six-furlongs straight at Flemington is a more reliable
test course than any mile with a turn in it. The fall of
Drawbridge went to prove the rule. A similar mishap
occurring in a field of horses bunched against the rails
would probably have brought more than three of them to
grief. All the same, the disaster that horrified the crowd
on Saturday was exceptionally unlucky in its results.
The Newmarket scamper more often than not is such a
Widespread event that two horses, running ten yards
apart, might fall without seriously troubling any of the
others.
Sir Foote was some distance to the left and in
front of the accident when it happened, and doubtless he
had the race already won ere Drawbridge became non est.
The time, lmin. 13|sec.—J-sec. faster than Amiable’s
record—hardjy admits of the suggestion that the winner
didn t hold them all safe on his merits. Aurous certainly
was going faster at the finish, but Sir Foote appeared to
be easing up in the last 20 yards. Besides, Aurous and
the others had been outpaced by the favorite before they
got to the distance post, and it is not by a rush at the
finish that Newmarkets are won. Sir Foote set them
a 7dj seconds task, and they couldn’t catch him. Never-
theless, the final effort of Aurous, the “ unfancied,” was
an impressive surprise for Isaac Moses, Esq. Also it
was even more satisfactory than surprising. Because
Aurous had receded in the betting from 6’s to 16’s any-
thmg short of a brilliant performance by the offspring of
Wallace and Aura would have been received with snorts
and sniggers. The stable didn’t “ back ” the mare or
advise friends to “ back ” her in the full sense of the term.
It was known that the stable connections had backed Sir
t oote for a little. And on the strength of what they
really to the “books” formed a quite confident
assumption that Aurous was not a goer Under the
circumstances the punting pubhc might at least have
spared an all-round cheer for Aurous after she had beaten
everything bar the “ dead-bird.” Leslie Macdonald and
co. gave the public more than a straight run for their
Aurous money. They gave a straight tip about Sir Foote
by making no secret of the fact that they were not dis-
posed to take a short price about their chance of beating
the imported flier. The candor came from the Mac-
do™ IkeyMo ? he unsavor y insinuations proceeded
Sir Foote’s easy victory induced a good many
cautious people to lay the odds on Wakeful for the Ksseii-
don Stakes. The mare’s failure to give 3 stone (to the
, . orse on *'i le previous Saturday was no longer a
reflection on her character. She had been attempting
the impossible. Wakeful’s price would have been sto I
on, instead of a modest 2 to 1 on, but for the inclusion of
La Carabine among the starters. The good old mare
from Ballarat had followers who took it for granted that
S Rupert was too proud of her to let her go forth to be
badly beaten and distressed, but the result proved that
La Carabine was not fit to struggle against Wakeful.
Macdonald s generous little friend romped along in her
happiest style, and did the miles in 2min. 37sec. with-
out being pressed. Barbarossa seemed to fairly beat
Limber for second prize..
••, • •
, *, ke Earnshaw selected Sir Foote on the pedigree
of the animal. In the first place, he sent home an order
{°l Sl I * oote s eider brother, but the deal didn’t come
what he wanted in the not very sound
colt that shook ’em up last Saturday. Such compara-
«ve*y cheap and conspicuously successful samples of
English blood stock as Positano, Voyou, April Fool and
Sir I oote should create an Australian demand for the
imported article for racing as well as stud purposes. Sir
Foote has the smattering of white hairs at the tail-butt
which one always likes to see in a bay or chestnut. The
fancy is absurd, perhaps, but it seems full of wisdom
when the tail is attached, to a big winner.
* • • $
• Twenty-three stripped for Newmarket Handi-
cap, Saturday Churchill’s year (’9O) saw 36, ditto
Laundress and Maluma’s. Bungebah showed 34 the
way; 32 opposed Wild Rose, and 30 carried silk when
William Tell and Fortunatus each won. Latest winner
was an unknown quantity till he got away
with Futurity Stakes, t’other day. Before leaving En°--
land his best form was fourth in Westminster Plate and
eighth in Newmarket Plantation Stakes. Sir F. bears a
strong resemblance to Carbine in appearance. Through
some alleged unsoundness (in the feet, ’tis said) he has
always been described as a hard ’un to train : this time
however, wily Ike Earnshaw seems to have brought him
to perfection. s
*.* • *
Evidence ig that accident in Newmarket H’can
was brought about through Drawbridge (just clear of a
big bunch galloping strongly in the centre of the course)
crossing his legs and falling. Moonbeam toppled over
heavily, hurling rider R. Manning hard to the ground
Progedior and Ampier fell in quick succession. Three
nags were on their feet instanter, ditto their jocks -but
Manning and his mount, Moonbeam, lay motionless side
by side. Moonbeam had to be shot and Manning died
six hours subsequently. “ Little Bobby.” had just turned
i 3 and was a capable rider, with the head and hands of an
old un, albeit he was the lightest at the game Melbourne
owned. Bobby won several races for brother-in-law E
Davis—most important being Oakleigh Plate (on Moon-'
beam) at Caulfield, Feb. 8. Drawbridge’s rider (Wheeler)
had his shoulder injured, Ampier’s (U. Cooper) got a bad
shaking, while Progedior’s (Smith) came away scatheless.
* * * *
Newmarket Handicap facts. Of 29 races run to
date 11 have gone to horses, 12 to t’other sex and six to
geldings. Aged nags have never “ been there ”at the
right end °f the “long” six furlongs, and only once has
a 6-year-old (Sedition) triumphed. Four and 5-vear-olds
have won 12 and 5 times respectively. Top weight was
Bungebahs 9.3; Fortunatus carried only lib less
Previous to Sir Foote’s 1.131 last Saturday, Amiable’s 1.14
was the record for the race, but she had 8.12, while
f VaS Bungebah (2 to 1) ranked
kott |, st favorite that ever got away with the money
tall Sir Foote s 6 to 4 against at barrier rise. Biggest
(successful) outsiders were Churchill, 33 to 1, and For-
tunatus and Laundress, 50 to 1 each.
* * * *
Double and straight out, Moses were heavily hit
over Sir Foote’s success in Newmarket, as heaps of money
had been secured about that win and he was coupled
with everything having a chance in the Australian Cup.
Sir* oote has other engagements ahead and will probably
lighten Mo.s satchels still more if they’ll lay him but
they re commencing to squeak loudly already ’
• • * ,
Early fancy Tip Top for Newmarket ran more
prominently (fourth) than 19 other starters, and yet she
imed up so little fancied that 500 to 2 was laid against her
two days before the race. This gallop indisputably demon-
strated that if her preparation had not been interfered
with she might have given the ultimate winner trouble
• • * *
Scratching (Monday) of M‘Donald’s Aurous for
Australian Cup (Tuesday) was a big set back to punters
as for some time they piled the money on—more particu-
larly after her second in Newmarket Handicap, previous
Saturday, when ‘twos” (to big tunes in some places)
were eagerly closed with. The happening was fore-
shadowed early m the day, for while Aurous’ stable mate,
Revenue, hardened to 6 to 4 in Sydney, she bobbed about
a lot in the market till, just before her elimination was
wired, sevens were literally forced down one’s throat ;
but the thing’ had become nauseous by that time. Only’
inference dedueible (without full information) was that
Aurous had broken down (and this assumption proved
correct), for the race looked hers beforehand—Mo had
christened it the “ Aurous .Stakes.”
* * * *
The Leger (3.10 f) was run to suit Grasspan
who bolted past the plodding Haymaker at the finish
With a pacemaker in the field Haymaker might have
outstayed Grasspan, although the Sydney colt certainly
won in good sl.vle. But, anyway, Haymaker is only a
second-rater. He looks smaller than when he finished
fourth for the Melbourne Cup.
* * • «
Apropos Grasspan’s V.R.C. St. Leger, Satur-
day, Sydney nags haven’t often caught this plum. Late
Hon. Janies White had a succession of wins with Match-
lock, Trident, Abercorn, Volley and Dreadnought: then
Gibraltar won next year (’9l), and, in the' Ion" gap
since, onlv Cabin Boy (’96) .and Parthian (’00) cropped
up. Grasspan was bred add is prepared by Randwick
trainer, Tom Payten, but belongs to Victorian owner
Raby.
* * * *
Looks as if Sydney crack jock S. Callinan will
get a fall ere long. Warwick Farm stewards, stimulated
to action (Saturday week) by the apparent daring of the
thing, carpeted Callinan for “suspicious” ridino- of
Merralie on which the public punted heavily, only to see
it run last; but nothing was done. Last Saturday same
rider was up on long-waited-for and alleged “ good thin"”
Always (a stable chum of Merralie’s) in Ladysmith
Stakes at Roselnll. Backers crowded to “get on ” and
quicker than one could say knife, Mo. wouldn’t lay’ better
than evens, and, ere barrier hoist, he wanted odds.
Adways behaved wretchedly ; further the race progressed
further he fell back and finished very much in the rear
It looked as if there vyas gojiig to be trouble as the nag
went to scale. Stewards had all concerned “up” for
explanation, but only “cautioned” them. Comment is
superfluous.
* * ‘ a «
tlt i Tattersall s No. 1 sweep on the Anniversary
Handicap (Jan. 27) seven tickets (out of 38,00 J) drew two
prizes apiece. Some people have luck.
* * » *
• R ea L r P; —? fan °y th is takes the cake for a record
in the totalisator for odds against a horse. In the Roval
Handicap, 125 sovs., at the South Australian J.O. meetim-
on Jan. 27 (16 starters-tickets £1 and 55.) there was one
S #}'l a r?y sa - lnves ted on a mare called Dolldale in pool of
J amount available for dividend purposes,
• j —or odds of over 5884 to 1. The mire
justified the odds by finishing last-getting away badlv
might have helped this. Wonder what odds Ikey would
have laid had he been making a book I—Still Waters.
* * *
Vic.-England match, ended Tuesday last week
was unsatisfactory. Vic.’s first innings total (129) was
exceptionally poor on a good wicket. Three century-
getters in other matches (Armstrong, M'Alister, and
Stuckey) went pavilionwards with “ducks” opposite
their names as a result of Braund’s “ jugglin'' ” Warne
performed meritoriously by going through and notching
61, not out. lirnghshmen opened indifferently. Jones
was missed once and Maclaren thrice ; the latter again
hundred—this time to the unit. It was remark-
able that Saunders, who bowled so extraordinarily well in
t - eSt ’ f n‘Ju d t 0 " et a wicklit right through this
• e ‘i vl , r JK ad work to Collins and Laver. Being
169 behind, Vic. had a narrow squeak of goino- under in
one immigs, despite that 7 of its 10 bats, at the second
essay, made double figures. Stuckey was the only one to
shape well, and he accumulated 54. It cost the En°--
hshmen two vyickets to get the 14 wanted to win. Rain
affected injuriously after the first day.
Fifth test opened on Melbourne Cricket Ground
FLif/ 1 rr y ’ v VVlth v? 0 ?, ! ook ! n » o,i Australians included
Eady (Tas.) and left-hander Travers (S.A.). Barnes
Robson, and Garnett stood out of the British team. The
wicket was sodden. M‘Laren lost the toss for the first
i ll rna fc c h es, and Trumble, after consideration,
■ n i t- raha m Conditions proved too slow for Braund
and Blj the, but Hayward and Gunn got rid of the
opposing team for 144. Altogether, before the day ended
onlookers sawls wickets go for the poor average of 18. V
runs each. Winning the toss benefited Australians very
little , in the early stages it did them no good at all
n ! tum PS were drawn the Britishers still had half
their side to play and were only 11 behind. At one
period Armstrong (Vic.) batted for three-quarters of an
n Ik 1 ° Ut gettln J< a run ’ and that at a time when it
looked the proper thing to force matters vigorously. At
the finish Lilley and Braund were together. ’Twill be
remembered that this was the partnership which went
fa.r towards winning the first test-match in Sydney : then
a " d Brauhd 58 > both established a
record (124) for the seventh wicket. ’
* * >» •
Second day’s play was watched by 20,000, and
finished with Australia 144 and six for 226, England, 189
P‘? uad and Lilley, always dangerous, looked like running
“toby But g?t out With 32 and 41; then the end
came fast Up to this, the feature of the innings was
j,,i!.Lo apl f a y j' U , a d? whl ch recalls that he had already
successively notched 99; 98 and 97 in tests. Gregory (41)
showed out next best, but, though faultless” latest
season 8 hadn fc the mer ß of previous ones during the
season. At this stage, worth remembering that the
Englishmen led on the first innings in four out of the five
tests played and yet they lost tKr.ee out of four. Aus-
tralian bowling changes were successful. Eady and
Noble opened, but after former got rid of one over
stopper Trumble went on himself, and in a little while
wmkef d co h sf e sv f ° r U ‘ ? 0l J le WaS kept «oing dll his one
wicket cost runs. Eady ciyma again, and the excel-
lence of the judgment that prompted his re-appearance
was endorsed by two bats falling to him quickly, and he
wound up with three for 39. For the visitors, Gunn and
Ss a iooo and P fh Well; n Hi u ° nl - v wants 28 t 0 complete
sssini *• <■ *
Third day attracted. 10,000 spectators. Last
four Australians only added 29, and Hayward and
™ a A de 40 ° f required 211 when former was
caugnD for 15. A succession of showers caused several
stoppages, and at 5.36 stumps were drawn, with the score
standing at 3 for 87, and 124 wanted to win. Under
ordinary circumstances the task would have looked soft
hut with the probability of a bad wicket on Tuesday
Australians seemed to have things their way. Bowlers
suffered by the adjournments. Trumble and Noble
respectively 0 lan^ed ’ got 006 wicket for 30 and
* * ‘ ” *
Result of the fifth test-match, a victory for Aus-
Hrid f d runs was what had been expected, in a
tired sort of way, by most people. The match was a
very tired sort of function from beginning to end and
suggested that some of the selected men of the Australian
AI. were not worrying too much as to the result The
narrow margin of victory certainly does not represent
anything like the difference between the two teams. But
P ap p r All-England should be as much superior to All-
Australia as the latter is to Maclaren’s team. And on
lfkflv 3 to S b l t C Cr 'i !ket , Verdict of this season seems
likely to be reversed, unless Australian form improves
ZIZ" Ch , under the whip. There is nothing L de!
“ f g »° a crick< i team as th e idea that it has a
able m and th e Australian Eleven hasn’t been
crowd d that ldea durln S the tour of Maclaren’s
” for < . the dailies > now that their
e . ar ‘J . Predictions re test-matches have been made
are trying to divert attention from figures by
harping violently, on one particular string which has
nothing to do with their shattered prophecies They
twang away at the fact that three of the firet four
ffiaat' 8 lshed the honesty of “test” competition by
wa xS7 yl6 ! d aS much Z
was expected. Also, the winning of the rubber hv
Australia before the fifth game came up for discussion is
said to be a “ crusher” for certain persons who ejected
the nval teams to arrange the test series on the two-and-
Flt h i a lai ^<gr o” t° r the final. Considering
that the last English Eleven in Australia was beaten
three games out of the first four, and that Lord Sheffield’s
team of yore lost the first two out of three, there was no
occasion for any excited assertions of test-match sincerity.
rw’in 6 cri ? ket - tal kers might as well admit that
they themselves were the first to predict a series of
long leather-hunts for the opposing elevens. The Eng-
lishmen, it. was said, were very strong in batting but
ver> weak in bowling, and couldn’t hope to win except
by makmg mighty scores. This was laid down as law
before Maclaren and co. arrived, and, after their first
fiden at ’ is S ' A ’’ the statement was re-laid with more con-
fidence than ever. The people who knew all about the
a r'l ne ' er wea ” ed of wondering how many runs
the Englishmen would make if they got first use of a
good wicket, and how many runs the Australians would
make against such weak bowling. Nothing was more
clear to the cognoscenti than the certainty of heavy
scoring by both sides in these tests, provided they had
= b t i Weafcher - Wel1 ’ the weafcher has been favorable
™ ve . the average and the Englishmen won the
toss four times, and yet they stand beaten by their
hnwlin ad r!’, a tln ? rather than the weakness of their
bowling. They played seven completed innings (with a
batsman absent on one occasion) for an average of 250
runs per innings, whilst the Australians played six innings
and lost nine wickets altogether in two others, at the rate
of about 266 runs per innings. Everything has happened
contrary to the words of the prophets. The battin«- on
both sides looks feeble by comparison with the figures of
the five tests played in England in ’99, when the Austra-
lians won the only completed game and couldn’t be said
to have had the worst of the four drawn games, taking
one with the other. Yet the All Englanders in ’99 scored
an average of about 294 runs per innings. Their trouble
then was that they couldn’t get rid of the Australians for
less than about 300 per innings, on the average. The
difference in the fielding and in the areas of cricketgrounds
may account for the apparent difference in test play
then and now, but anyhow it can be fairly argued that
the test hatting this season on mostly hard “rnn-
getting ” wickets has been weakened by undue caution on
both sides and unmistakable funkiness on the part of the
visitors.
* -K * *
At time of writing, remaining four of Australian
team for England are still “ probables,” though Hopkins
Howell, Saunders and Eady seem likely to provide them’
Injury to Saunders complicated things somewhat, but
he 11 be right before the boat leaves M’Leod's inclusion
isn t likely, though, on form, his claims are ahead of
Howell s, through his higher bowling average this season
Two better trundlers do not present themselves to the
thinking section ; the only others available are Laver
Travers, and Clarke. Latter has proved a disappoint-
ment lately, and Travers has yet to earn international
spurs.
* * * *
After this tour, MacJaren’s lot will be bracketed
with Stoddart’s last combination as the worst-defeated
team that has come Australiawards. Stoddart’s men won
four, lost five, and drew two. So far, Maclaren’s side has
won four and lost six.
* * • *
English cricketer Tyldesley wrote to a friend
down under, and it was published in London Spoki'ino
Life : “We ought to have won the New South Wales
game, but the umpire made a lot of blunders, and the
decision when he gave Mr. Jones out was cruel. Even
the bowler said so.” Olarke bowled Jones in the first
innings of the match referred to and got him l.b.w. in the
second. Clarke denies point blank having said the Ib w
decision was incorrect; so far from doing this lie appealed
v ru ' 1 ”g'.which umpire Callaway gave without the
slightest hesitation. Callaway savs ’twas the clearest
thing he ever saw.
* * * *
Ex- “ Demon ” Spofforth thinks wicket-keepers
are.the present great want on Australian and English
fields. But Spoff. himself had something to do with the
shortage. He set the fashion in fast bowling, and players
soon sought healthier stations than behind the stumps.
Sydney first-grade cricket, Saturday, though in-
teresting, was far from exciting. Central Cumberland, at
the wickets all the afternoon, ran up 329 for five down, in
opposition to Paddington, to whom absence of Noble
Trumper and. Kelly, with the Australians in Melbourne’
Was a heavy handicap. Pye notched 121—his second cen-
tury on successive Saturdays. Farquhar just missed the
hundred by one run. Looks now as if Paddington will
go under this time. At present, last-mentioned club and
Leichhardt-Balmain (bracketed together) top the list, and
latter also seems in for defeat. Meeting North Sydney
Leichhardt-Balmain only accumulated 216, while t’other
side have 51- made by Iredale and Clarke—without losino-
a wicket. Present position of Redfern-Sydney maton
seems a “ cert.” for Sydney. If this summing-up turns
out correct, Sydney will go from third up on top, with
the two already there. Leichhardt-Balmain and Padding-
ton, and Sydney and Waverley come together in the final
round, therefore Leichhardt-Balmain’s prospects are still
good. Only the three clubs named are in it now. Most
who have the good of cricket at heart hope for Leich-
hardt-Balmain’s success, but, in the light of Saturday’s
and previous week’s occurrences, Sydney’s chances are
entering strongly into the thoughts of tipsters. Burwood
scored 361 against Waverley, towards which Barbour
brought 95.
* * * •
Young Australia has no equal at cricket.
Second grade match Paddington v. Burwood saw former
try 14-vear-old lad Fitzgerald with the ball, and profit-
ably ; he sends them in slow, but gets a big break on ; tis
said he can whip along fast ones too, and break them
from the off. Boy Fitz. bagged some wickets, and often
stuck bats up completely.
* * * »
For South Fremantle against East Perth (Wes-
trahan senior association), on Feb. 10, M'Kibbin took
5 u u , k - -batting hasn’t improved since the days
when he played pranks in internationals—he was bowled
at the first try.
* * * *
Drew, the old Bendigo bowler, is now doing
good work for Port Adelaide ; he and “ Jonah ” Jones
recently put out a strong electorate team for 80, dividin" -
the wickets equally. (M'Kibbin, who also played tor the
Port, has gone west.) Travers, the same day, took 6 for
55, against Hack and others. S.A. hopes to have dis
covered anhther Clem Hill in young Jennings, who lately
215-in electorate cricket. It is about time she did.
ihe Adelaide. papers are very bitter on the subject of
recent selections for test-matches, alleging that Travers
is probably as good as Saunders, and M'Kenzie certainly
better than Carter.
* * * *
Second day of big swimming in M.L. brought
the Quarter Mile Championship to Dick Cavill, with
Ceorge Read, 50 yards behind, second, and Gailey third.
Read led to 325 yards, when Cavill passed him. Read
must have either stopped dead for a time, or only drifted
in to be squelched by 50 yards in the remaining 115 of the
journey. Cavill toppled another world’s record over.
Rrior best was Read’s 5.42, set up when he gained the
Quarter premiership of N.S. VV. at Balmain in Decem-
her last, and then beat Cavill by 7.3-ssec. This time
cavill got through his contract in 5.37 1-5. Another in-
stance of a world’s best being lowered twice within acom-
paratively brief period. Previous to Read’s brilliant
ettort, of December last ex-amateur English champ. J.
*•'“> established eight years ago, was the
speediest, but the English A.S.A. withheld endorsement
through some informality ; then his 5.431-5 stood.
Plunge also was decided this day, and went to Mahoney
(M.c. probably) who traversed 43ft., Smith (also -M.L.)
was second with 40ft. 6in. Previous holder (Dunn
lctoria) went over to compete, but the wires are silent
about him W. McDonald’s 69ft., at Sydney, Nov. 30 last
year, is the continent’s record, with duration of effort
united to lmin. Though Cavill and Lane competed they
profess nothing above the ordinary at this game.
0n ,(Saturday), Dick Cavill raced Lane
over the hundred” journey, and only went under by a
yam, with M.L. top-runger Champion third, and Queens-
land s crack, Gailey, fourth. Time, 1 3-ssec., is just 2-Ssec.
slower than Derbyshire’s world’s record, and l-ssec in
excess of the figures credited to Lane at Bondi (N.slw.),
Jan. 11 this year. Cavill never before put up as fast a hun-
( red as his latest. Cabled, also, that only Read and
Cavill tackled the mile, and they were locked together
some tune, Cavill gaining at the turns, and Read making
up in the straight swimming. At 500 yards Cavill got the
lead and stayed there, winning by 25 yards .in.2liuin. 11
2-ssec. This if right, is 3mins. 35 2-ssec. better than the
previous world’s best, established by George Read at
farmers Domain (Sydney) baths, April 13 last, year, and
which easily exceeded Englishman Jarvis’s 25.13 2-5,
accomplished in ’99. '
N.S.W. swimmers whooped at the Australasian
championship meet at Wanganui (M.L.), which ended last
Saturday. Bar the plunge, which isn’t thought much of
° r r.-i 0 » • about t 0 an - v extent, “Fred” Lane and
uick Cavill (between them) gathered in all the big
events, and one or two of the smaller ones. Lane was
successful in the sprints up to 220 yards, and Cavill
annexed the longer distances—44o yards. First day
(iuesday) saw Dick appropriate the Half-Mile, which he
traversed in 11.8—43 l-ssec. faster than the world’s rSCord
o w same .distance set up by him when he won the
w premiership a few weeks before. Thus, inside a
month has Cavill twice knocked out world’s professional
champion Joey Nuttall’s long-standing 12.7.4 and world’s
amateur champion Jarvis’s 12.19. Same afternoon wit-
nessed Lane close on the Furlong honors in 2.38—4-ssec.
slower than his 220 yards premiership of NS.W..(Bth
ult.) and 3 l-ssec. behind the world’s best, wherein Lane
and Britisher Derbyshire shared as the result of a dead-
heat at Birmingham, Sept. 17, 1900. Bananalahder
W? s second to Lane, with Maorilander Champion
third. Cavill had his fellow State rep.—G. Read—follow-
ing him home.
* * • *
Adelaide has a new swimmer in Moon, a
featherweight of 8 stone, and 19 years old. In the City
Bath (fresh water) he won the 500 yards in 7inin. 19sec.
—3sec. inside the S.A. record. His heat of the 100 yards
Championship was only |sec. slower than Sid. Cavill’s
tune made there three or four years a^o.
*** » * *
Australian sculler Harry Pearce vanquished
Englishman Barry in a race on the
Ihames by ten lengths. Three weeks previously Barry
beat Pearce by three lengths on the Tyne.
* ■* * • .
The cable chess match, five a-side, between the
Imperial House of Commons and the Federal Parliament
ought to be an easy thing for the English team. 'The
local reps, are Senator Pulsford (N.S.W.), Conroy, and
Thomas (also of N S W.), Fisher (Q.), and S’Malcolm
M Lacharn (Vic.) Of these the only man who is anything 1
resembling a real ohessist is barrister Alf. Conroy, who,
before he became M.P., used to practise with cham-
pion E. N Wallace and other cracks of the Sydney Chess
Lj uo, and played a fine game. Lately he has abandoned
the chess board for the all-night sitting, and seems to
have gone off.
(Continued on page 25.)
He Endured Much.
DR. MORSE'S INDIAN ROOT PILLS BANISH
HIS AILMENT.
Mr. Samuel Cole, a resident of Woodend, Vic.,
furnishes us with an instance of endurance. Re
writes, expressing his gratitude. It is best told
in his own words:—“l have much pleasure in
writing to tell you of the many benefits I have
derived from the use of your Dr. Morse’s Indian
Koot Puls. I have been a great sufferer for
some time with indigestion and biliousness, for
winch I tried many patent medicines, but re-
ceived no benefit from any of them until I used
your pills. I commenced their use by taking them
according to directions, and found, after taking
three doses, that they had made a great difference
in my health; however, I continued their use, and
have now used several bottles, and can honestly
say they have cured me of indigestion and bilious-
ness, as I never have an attack now. Since
using these pills, I have recommended them—and
even given them—to many, and the results have
been good. You may use this letter, as all I have
stated m it is the truth, and if anyone would like
to know what my case was like, I will be only too
happy to tell them.” Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
1 ills are a perfect blood purifier, and a positive
cure for biliousness, indigestion, constipation,
lieadacnes, sallow complexion, liver and kidney
trouhlei, piles, pimples, boils and blotches, and
tor femde ailments. Sold by chemists and
storekeepers. Is. lid per bottle, or six bottles
te. Gd Hole proprietors, The W. 11. Comstock
L-0., Ltd. (Australasian Depot) 58 Pitt-street,
oydnev. Packed, in amber bottles, .and the full
name blown thereon.


6 Best SILVER-PLATED FORKS
. . . FOR AFTERNOON TEAS . . .
10 /6 IN SILK.-LINED BOX. /""
This Illustration is Half-Size of Fork.
h
THE MODERN ART JEWELLERY CO.
187 PITT=ST., SYDNEY
(Next Shadier’s Cafe ).
Do Not
Hesitate!
THE MASSEY-HARRIS BICYCLE
Will carry the heaviest and most awkward rider over the roughest road with safety and ease. It
will pay you to send for our new Catalogue telling all about the bicycle.
Weetrallan Branch: Hay Street, Perth, and Kalgoorlie.
Branches at Melbourne, Adelaide, Bydney, Brisbane, Wellington.
ĥ
PIKE BROS.
Brisbane.
Townsville.
London.
. RENOWNED SPECIALITIES
SUPERIOR READY TO WEAR
INDIAN TROPICAL CLOTHING.
Exceptionally well cut and highly tailor-finished.
Made to our Special Order and Measurements in India.
FINEST ASSAM SILK ao,
COAT and TROUSERS - - "T Mm /
COATS—Single, D.-8., and Norfolk shapes.
INDIAN TWILL FLAX
COAT and TROUSERS
17/6
COATS—Single, D.-8., Norfolk and Patrol shapes. . , T a
A Perfect Pit ensured by customers sending Height, Chest, Waist and Inside
<5 Illustrated Catalogue (Commonwealth issue) and Samples.
X
Fish «*
Game
Poultry
QUALITY - - the Best
PRICES - the Lowest
Retail Depot: 135 KING ST., SYDNEY
Finest Display in Australasia.
Parcels delivered Town or Country.
Price List on application.
The N.S.W. fresh food & ice Co. ltd.
SKsS
tfiMfliffl;
llfl
l
teas*
11 1 rfmnini
1?OR the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
■ ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “Ellis’ King Street Coffee Palace,” “*D
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor — GEO. W. ELLIS.
“ SHARPSHOOTINCf
For Sport and War”
ħ
By W. W. GREENER.
Hits the Mark!
1/- NETT.
If you wish to know how to guard the
Empire—if you are one of those who will
rally round the old flag:—read this book.
It teaches all about Rifles and Rifle
Shooting:, how to aim and make allowance,
&c., and it contains chapters on Ranges
and Rifle Clubs, with a history of the part
played by the Armed Civilian in the past.
The Best Shilling’s Worth ever Published!
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations for 1/- nett.
Of all Booksellers, or C. W. Buckland, Agent
for W. W. Greener, 317 Collins St., MELB.
THE OLP HOUSES
- BUY BEST.
Through the years they have learnt where to buy best.
Fact on fact they have gathered that will take others years to glean.
Capital counts, too ; old houses usually command large capital.
Output, again, is a factor; old houses have a large output.
Our prices are London Prices—no more. Our prices have not been
altered.
London Prices
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
h
Cho’ce Diamond and
Sapphire Crescent
Brooch, £7.
The Oldest Jewellery House
in Sydney.
23 HUNTER ST.
By Special
Appointment.
G. H. SMITH and SON,
TROPICAL HELMET
with special air-space,
in white drill , &c. and
in all colors in felt,
10/6 and 12/6
Hat and Cap Manufacturers
and Importers,
302 Ceorge-st. Sydney
Sombrero Sort Felt Hats,
All Shades and Sizes.
Soft Felt Hombergs.
In all Sizes and Colors.
Straw Hats. Stetson Hats.
Polo Caps, Military and Naval
Caps, Livery Hats, Clerical Silk
Hats, Etc., Made to Order
ĥ
TOURISTS
Oan thoroughly enjoy Cycling when BOADSTEE
ħ
ahe fitted TO TIIEIB cycles.
Thpv are uneaualled for SPEED, DURABILITY, and SIMPLICITY of
Detachment and repair. roadster tyres guaranteed
rar teUMaraa beware oe imitations.
None genuine unless Cover and Tube are emboMed with this Trade Mark
TH© Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Aust. Ltd.,
108 FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE.
And at Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch (N.Z.)
4*
j T.S.W. Depot: ISO Clarence Street , Sydney .
“Trudge”: Sensation of Australasian Swim-
ming: Championships, just concluded in M.L., was remark-
ably fast times clocked for Cavill in the Half, Quarter,
and Mile. Every race showed astonishing improvement
on his N.S.W. form, and that he has come on wonderfully
is evidenced by Read having to play very much second
fiddle, though he too, excepting in the 440, shaped well
throughout and reached his highest standard, hast
season it was foretold herein that as Cavill matured he
would turn the tables on his older rival and this has come
to pass. Read’s heart is not over big ;he funked palpably
in this season’s N.S.W. Half-Mile and on the occasion of
his first appearance in a champion race the year before.
That defeat by 50 yards in the finishing 115 of the
“ Quarter ”at \\ anganui (second day) reads uncommonly
like “ chucking ”it when caught. Apropos this par-
ticular event, Cavill showed an improvement of 12 2-ssec.
over the distance as compared with his time when Read
beat him easily in the 440yds. championship of N.S.W.,
December 21st last. Fact of Wanganui baths being only
25vds. long will, in part, account for these marvellous
speed achievements, but that Cavill has much improved is
demonstrated by the easy manner in which be settled
Read each time and the way htTSWam up to Lane in the
hundred, which was much ahead of any sprint
swimming he has previously done. Read is booked for a
trip ’Ome with Lane this month and swimmingpeop.e are
subscribing his exs., but in the light of-recent events
they’re certainly sending the wrong man away, and some
day they’ll be sorry for it too.
. -*-• ** * *
Concerning some breakages : Crack bowler J.
Saunders broke the point of his' left shoulder in the Yic.-
England match last week. So he couldn’t play in the
fifth test—a deplorable fact in the face of his perform-
ances. He is unquestionably the best Australian left-hand
bowler since Ferris. Jake Gaudaur,.. once world’s chain-
pion sculler, fell on the ice at Rat Portage and broke his
shoulder-bone; and famous fist-fighter Fitzsimmons,
coniing home from the Orpheum Theatre in Brooklyn,
stepped on a little bit of orange-peel, and jarred lus spine
so badly that it is unlikely he will ever put ’em up again.
The Maoriland freak was at the time preparing for an
almighty scrap with giant Jeffries, which is now, of
course, off.
• • * *
Sydney Gaiety A. C. was packed from floor to
roof Monday night to watch “Cocker” Tweedie . and
Melbourne Jack M‘Gowan fight for the continent’s light-
weight supremacy and 75 so vs. There hasn t been such a
house at a fight since the.Cribb-Dunn and Cribb-Sturgeon
affairs, and there won’t be again for many a night if one
might judge from the way the audience boo-hooed their
chagrin And disgust. Both pugs looked well enough
before the scrap started, but though notning terrible was
done, Tweedie sat in his corner after the first round
looking as fagged out as Samson after that gentleman
had slain his little thousand all on his own. M’Gowan
hadn’t turned a hair, and looked quite ready for the
remSihder of the stipulated 20 rounds. And he thumped
Tweedie, on the ribs unmercifully, and pushed him all
round the ring showering left and right hooks which,,
rarely got past the clever defence. It was near the end
of the fourth round that Tweedie, rushing in, met a
soother that sent him among the stars from which he
scrambled up too late. ’Twas a fizzle, but ’twas fair :
Mac. is as good as ever, and Tweedie has gone utterly
bung and won’t be worth looking- at in a ring any more.
» * • *•
Indications are that the next' bruising struggle
for Australian heavyweight supremacy will be between
Armidale maintenance man Billy McColl and present
champion Bill Doherty. Latter wants the. match and
former says he is wiliing and will be ready in April. If
Doherty is as good as when he fought Felix in Sydnej two
years ago McColl will get licked. But then arises the
question : Is Doherty as good ?
* * * *
Balapce-sheet of last Austral bike meet, was to
have been submitted Wednesday this week. Gathering
proved remarkably successful. - Receipts reached £3392,
and, after all claims were met, £1621 remained to the
good. Gate-money was larger, and prize-expenditure
£IOO less, than on any prior occasion.
Absolutely the best side-show in London during
Coronation week should be that arranged'by the Nationa j
Sporting Club. Boxing at all weights, and the heavy*
weight championship to carry a £IOOO “ Coronation Belt.
Every event open to the world. International tug-of-war
(Australia is already announced as sending a team).
Oxford and Cambridge to box the American University
champions, and the U.S. army to wrestje with England s
best soldiers. The open wrestling to include the latest
developments from Turkey and Japan, and French
“ savate ” kickers to be matched with the best English
boxers of their own weight.
* * •
S.A. League of Wheelmen’s meeting finished
Saturday. Hot winds and dust-storms kept people away,
and the venture showed £B7 on the wrong side. Half-
mile Championship of Australia fell to Don Walker, in
lmin. 11 l-ssec.—4 2-ssec. slower than his preliminary
heat. Walne and Cameron followed as named. Cameron s
riding 1 stood out; Walne was only inches ahead of him for
second place in the big thing of the gathering. Cameron
secured the final of the Adelaide Wheel Race (two miles),
with attendant £IOO, brilliantly, putting up a record •
4min. 0 3-ssec. Rolfe was second, and A. E. Ohampness
third ; then came Cole, Burton, L. Corbett, Walsh, and
Shearer. Final of Mile First-class Handicap brought a
new “ best.” E. F. Wilksch just pipped Morgan by
inches in 1.58, with Maorilander Burton third. Five
Miles Scratch race also produced good riding. Wilksch
and Barker tussled desperately, and worked excitement
to breaking tension till la! ter barely won on the line in
llniin. 20 2-ssec. Continuation of M‘Donald - Aunger
match was deferred through illness of Aunger, who,
medical men asserted, had been hocussed. After first
event previous Saturday he was delirious for two days,
and couldn’t leave his bed till Wednesday. McDonald
came on the track to go over the course, but was blocked.
He, however, claimed the stakes, and the racing board
on Monday paid them over, at the same time informing
M'Donald that he wouldn’t be asked to race in S.A. again
through his unsportsmanlike action.
* * * *
The Adelaide people have a great affection for
“ Bobbie” Walne. He had disappointed the Adelaideans
much of late, but they still hoped on, and when, the other
Saturday, in the Commonwealth Mile, he sprinted as of
yore, leaving MacDonald and Aungur anywhere, the crowd
were prepared to tear the place down from sheer joy.
Mrs. E. T. Smith laid the blue and gold ribbon across his
steaming shoulders, and E. T. Smith wobbled Bobbies
arm about for a while and said something unintelligible,
and meanwhile the cloud of steam that rose up from
Bobbie almost blotted out the view of Smith.
• * * *
N.B.W. League bikist, C. Melrose, had, on
Saturday, a second shot at Goulburn to Sydney road
record of lOhr. 28min., created by T. Alsoff, and beat it,
but with only s|min. to spare. ’Tis safe to foretell that
this won’t exist long, as there’s nothing extra good about
it, and those proved good amateurs, Green, Toose, and
Lyon, and Simon, the country league man, purpose
having a cut.
Mr. B. R. Wise writes : “ With reference
to a statement in last issue, that ‘two leading
Federal Ministers were pledged to appoint liim
High Commissioner,”’ that no Minister has ever
given him such a pledge, nor has he asked for it
from any. Bulletin statement was that pro-
minent Federal Ministers are definitely pledged
toB. R. Wise’s appointment.” It was not said,
or meant to be suggested, that any pledge had
been given to, or sought by, Mr. Wise himself, or
by anyone acting for him. The suggestions for
his appointment have proceeded wholly from
public motives.
From an Indian paper :
Yesterday Nobogopal Bose of Birpore was sentenced to
pay a fine of Rs. 400 by the Deputy Magistrate of Alipore
on a charge of defamation. The accused falsely and
maliciously circulated statements concerning a Hindu
priest (the complainant) to the effect that he used to nux
with Christians and eat food cooked by them.
The European is supposed to be spreading the
blessings of Christianity in India, but when a ma n
can still obtain legal satisfaction for. being charged
with associating with Christians the spread is
apparently very slow.
Editor Mac-Dunstan’s mullet, and mutton
hash, organ, the WATCHMAN, after referring to
The Bulletin’s influence as “ pestilential, then
remarks that The Bulletin doesn’t affect public
opinion at all, and so has no influence, pestilential
or otherwise. Eater the consistent Watchman,
in a bitter article on Cardinal Moran, asks :
Who does not remember the cartoon of The Bulletin—
the little boy frofn Manly looking down into the well
of truth,” on theiedge of which the Cardinal s cap rested,
the little boy soliloquising, “ The Cardinal seems to have
fallen in here ” ; ’and the Cardinal’s voice irom the depths,
“ Well, if Oi have, Oi won't admit it.”
So apparently every one remembers the sayings
of a paper which exercises a pestilential
influence, and also no influence at all. When the
Watchman shows such signs of obfuscation on his
beat how can anyone sleep in peace, confident
that the burglarious Jesuit isn’t coming softly
over the back fence ?


h
Pocket Knives make good, useful
Presen ts, especially when they are fitted
with Silver or Gold Handles, such as we
illustrate above. All have rings on one
end, so that you can attach to chain.
The smajl size is suitable for a lady.
Solid Silver, 5/6, 6/6, 8/6. Solid Gold,
l4/6, 22/6, 27/6.
see*
ORS
il
1
iZa
SB
K-a
This is an exceptionally handsome
Powder Jar of best English Out Glass
with charmingly-designed Solid Silver
Top and Mounts. Price, £2 15s.
ĥ
We have just opened out the best lot
of Pin and Sweet Trays (in Solid Silver)
you could wish to see. Never have we
seen such pretty designs, combined
with so much finish and weight. The
prices for Pin Trays run 5/6, 6/6, 10/6,
11/6 ; and for Sweet Dishes, 6/6, 10/6.
' 13/6. 1 ‘
ħ
This Cut-Glass Butter Dish, with
strongly Silver-Plated Stand and Lid,
good for many years of use, only 12/6.
Lots of others, from 10/6 to 21/-.
/
f,
4/2 G£o/?GC 0., ~v n„ *
s
All Goods sent Free on Receipt of Remittance.
WRITE FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
h
This shows quite a novel design of Brooch—two
15c. Gold Bars, with a Diamond in centre, in
which are set 4 lovely Opals, £2 12s 6d.
ĥ
One of our most popular Brooches is illustrated
here. It is made of 9c. Gold, and has a pretty
Opal-set Fly in the centre: Strong and Servic'e-
able. £1 5s each.
ħ
This is a 2-Bar Brooch in 15c. Gold, with two
exquisite Opal Hearts and Opal-set Star in centre.
The price is £2 10s.
h
The New Bird, Bell and L< af Brooch, 9c. Gold,
only 11/6.
ĥ
Bar and Crescent Brooch, in either a combination
of Diamonds and Rubies or Diamonds and
Sapphires. Excellent value at £l2 10s.
ħ
This shows the ever-popular Nellie Stewart Ban ale W P
IT Eael; T ° 0 ' r?T C - °r ](L ■ The °" p we illustrate is Vhe
On Vi CC H o l ' Wlth invisible joint and catch
Gold, £2 10s, £3 3s, £4 ; 15c. Gold, £3 7s 6d, £5, £7.
stock
large
. 9c.
h
Real New Zealand Greenstone, mounted with 9c. Gold, as Pendants
for gentlemen’s watch-chains. We make these in two sizes—as
illustrated, 13 6 ; size smaller, 12/6.
ĥ
The Fashionable Bamboo Bracelet, strong, well-made ar 1
finishad, and fitted with Safety Chain. -9c. Gold, £2 ;
15c. Gold, £4.
1
SSI
m
w
ss
Tr.
a/
m
m
m
a
*
m
H
The New Wire-effect Solid Silver Belt-Clasps. Strong make, and
quite a change from the old style of Clasp. As ahove, 15/6. Another,
of equally pretty design, for 14/6.
mm
We have just 24 of these handy articles,
Teapot Stands, in stock ; so don’t be too
late. They save the table many a scorching
—a thing to be considered and guarded
against. They have pretty Tile Centres and
heavy Plated Mounts. Price, 10/6, post free.
df
This is a New Pattern of Biscuit Box. It
is made of Solid Nickel Silver, heavily
Plated and good for 30 years’ wear. The
glass can be removed for cleaning pur-
poses. Price, £2 10s. Other Glass Biscuit
Barrels from. 16/6 to 30/-.
XCSi
Jut Glass and Solid Silver Trinket Box.
'lakes a tasty Wedding or Birthday
Present. It is good English Cut Glass, np't
a scratch here and there. The price iS 25/-
ħ
ife
This Cabinet-size Soiid Silver Photo. Frame
costs but 12 6 ; while the Carte de Visit is
5/-, and the Midget, plain, only 3/-. Each
of these lines are splendid value. If you
are not satisfied when you receive them,
you can haveyour money back.
i
"Tlf—
a
sm-
-m,
Struck Down in the Hourof Triumph
A MAN WH( ? OUED SUCCEED in any undertaking in life will NEED ALL THE STRENGTH that Nature can give him. STRENGTH IS A NECESSITY and thrnno-h if »
man mentally and physically active, attain-) t.he highest standard of intellectual worth and the GREATEST CONDITION of DOMESTIC PLEASURF and HmmMV
Nature not being perfect, and her principles BEING SOME TIMES INJURED, frequently requires medical aid to assist her in niacin? the in f«I W-r l Jit- H . ARMoN y-
proper strength and order. Otherwise he may be struck down when he thinks himself triumphant P g lnteU ectual and physical forces in
WHEN A MAN IS RUN DOWN, HIS SYSTEM EXHAUSTED, ENFEEBLED, LACKING VIGOR AND VITALITY and his hndv is ~,-fu „ • . . . .
suffering from a DEBILITATING WEAKNESS from which thousands of men suffer, the stream of life is at a tow ebb Tf fhto S f a t»^wil„f=f kd ' Vlfch P aln whilst he is
YEARS OF SUFFERING WILL ENSUE. A period of life will he entered, BARREN OF JOY DEVOID OF PLEASURE fe, T
LIVING. A man with ENFEEBLED VITAL POWERS is practically dead. He is usually the victim of EARIY DTSSIPATinw yt^"g EIFE WORTH
WASTING WEAKNESS, which saps daily THE POWER FROM THE VITAL endless mlsery^aEidunutterable^rernorse^ 6311^ “ GENERAL DEBILITY >
HAVE YOU DOUBTS ABOUT YOUR CONDITION ?
If so, YOU SHOULD CONSULT AN EXPERIENCED SPECIALIST AT ONCE.
Do you know what a week’s delay may mean ? It may SHUT OUT FOR EVER
from your life THE PLEASURES OF EXISTENCE, those pleasures that come to a
manm the prime of his health FILLING HIS LIFE WITH JOY and his heart with
the GREATEST GLADNESS. • There is a tendency in human nature TO NEGLECT
A DISEASE, trusting to Nature to cure it. Simple eases of weakness DEVELOP
INTO SERIOUS AILMENTS, and simple diseases which might have been con-
quered by a two weeks’ treatment gradually BECOME TERRIFIC AFFLICTIONS
which only a Specialist with SPECIAL KNOWLEDGE OF THE DISEASE may
ever hope to master. WEAK MEN, DESPONDING and HOPELESS, should re-
member where they delayed ; WEAK MEN, AFRAID TO VENTURE, TO MARRY
TO SPECULATE in life, SHOULD NOT DELAY.- The most aggravated CASE OF
VITAL WEAKNESS, arising from any known condition, CAN BE CURED AT
THE ELECTRO-MEDICAL AND SURGICAL INSTITUTE IN A FEW WEEKS.
A CERTAIN, RELIABLE CURE FOR WEAK MEN.
urn. ’■asrt* trs
SPECIALISTS of the INSTITUTE cure, not only WEAKNESS IN MEN but
hey TONE UP THE REPRODUCTIVE SYSTEMS, and so thoroughly renovate
the body generally that the thought of calamity dies permanently. They have in
their secretarial chamber OVER 10,000 TESTIMONIALS from men CURS'D nf
EXHAUSTION and GENERAL DEBILITY. The system of th“ SpecFahsts is
entirely new, and lsun effect a combination of Medicine and Electricity. P Electricity
,wnr a " d f a l\, Electric-Invigora tor ” placed around the waist for a few weeks
instilling into the system a gentle, remedial current which re-invigorates the entire
nervous system, thus worn whilst a course of medicine is taken, will conquer the
worst case of “ weakness ” endured by men. eonquer tne
An Instructive, Interesting Medical Volume,
successful of literary volumes is the revised and enlarged edition of “ Clinical Experiences”
l to «*? Pe °f le for one shilling. This amount sent in stamps
, ■ ensur t. the postage free of this fine volume to any Australian address. There is no further
of medicnTlif!?, g f aphlC w . 150 full J )a £ e arid medical plates, in the highest degree interesting. Its 500
chapter B dealing with all diseases, while articles devoted to the cures
S ISSSKSS ft SSK o ,ifi? übSS: “ d °” B ""’' So,1<ls ' Woun ‘"' r “ ti ™'
The Institute’s Credentials and a Magnificent Eulogy.
°n e of the important professional features of the Institute is the credentials attached to the name of its
OulhficaHo n 'f Vv, m , • l consultin ? chamber are nine diplomas and certificates of Registration and
Qualification from the Medicine Boards of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, England and America
Sir Oomime Corrigan Physician to the late Queen, speaking of the Physician-in-Ohief of the Institute says - “I
SSffiaW* l " Sh '»“ k » «* D '' P-—BX *»1 - re.p,ot to hi. professional
r Some
Remarkable
Cures
Some
Reliable
j Testimonies
These Testimonials are of late date,
and may be seen at the
INSTITUTE
Some Au:henticat3d Testimon a!s from Reliable Sources.
Tiib Specialists.
anri yOU eno Q ugh , f( ! r fche wonderful change you have effected in my case. lam now properly well
and have full faith in you as Specialists. You have completely cured me of nervous exhaustion and ’
The and Surgical Institute. ( Tran fP e » N.S.W.).
r t V- 1 haVe pleasure in being; able to say lam completely cured from general debilitv from which T snfforcrl
I feel m great health this last month. If ever I see anyone suffering as I did I shall advise them to go to you.”
The Managing Director of Institute. E. B. (Dapto, N.S. W.).
Dear Sir,—“ Having been treated by one of the staff of Specialists at your Institute for nervousness i„. nm „i»
and kidney trouble, and greatly benefited when all doctors failed to relieve me I do not heSif ’
and your faculty to anyone who may desire the services of honest and skilled Specialists.” ° men< * ou
The Specialists. d - s - (Carcoar, N.S.W.).
“ T ° my people the restoration which you have proved in my condition is regarded in the lio-hf nf s m i™„i ß vr„
kidney troubles rank with things of the past, and you have become successful far beyond mv most sane-nine pvrcrJ/
tions. I sleep well, eat well, and live well as any healthy man, and find my life filkd withZppiness ” g P
Thk Director of Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute. T ' ( Rln garooma, Tasmania).
t ■ a As a , w °m all wl »<J has been cured by you after years of suffering, I think I ou«ht to allow von t-r. fell
friends and patrons of my remarkable change into permanent health. I was run down and reillv hJ,i °?i
a friend asked me to state my case to you, as she had been cured prei fously by vou ?wls
exhaustive complaint, with the poorest of blood, weak nerves, haunted by sleepless' restless
months of your electro-medical treatment I was a new being. I cannot help but tell you the Ymth cp , fter , f. 0
who is under such a medical obligation.” P J,°“ r n tl , u n th /. as we should do
The Specialists, Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute. a ’ 10 01 ,a ’
“ Thanks to you lam now safely over mv troubles. You have cured me of f.hp tpmhi,,
general exhausted state I was in prior to my writing to you. ,My trodWeTw you tnfonned „i w^LkV he
kidney troubles, but I am now cured, and being well and truly satisfied, desire to show my gratitude ” * r ° m
M.W.T. (Menzies, W.A.)
f
%
A man in a state of Nervous and Physical
Exhaustion Hopeless, Purposeless, Power-
less. An instance where Nature requires
assisting into the ways of permanent and
vigorous life-
THE
FREEMAN WALLACE
ELIZABETH & BATHURST STREETS,
““ SURGICAL INSTITUTE
SYDMEY.
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director.
RICHARD WALLACE, Physician-in-Chief.
L.lttiri n fr^^ C^^+tr eC and sent to all parts of Australia
Letters treated With professional secrecy- and promptly replied to-


TRONC MAN.
BE
§m
m/m
AROUSE YOURSELF.
4—
Feel the Spark of LIFE in
your Nerves. Recover the
Power you have Lost.
WOULD you not like to have your friends
point to you as they used to and say :
“There goes a strong man?” Do you
nob wish your eye to be so bright,
your step so firm, and your form so erect, that
men and women will admire you, and remark at
your manly bearing? These are the thoughts
uppermost in the minds of modern men—physical
and mental perfection, strength, and manly
power. •
Who does not like to be strong, to feel that he
s equal in strength to any man of his age ? You
can be if you will obey the appeal here made to
you. You need
flr. [flctaughlin’s Electric Belt
Drugs have been tried and have failed. You know that: but Dr. McLaughlin s .Electric
Belt cannot fail: it is Electricity, and “Electricity is Life.” It gives you the oil with which
' to set the machinery of your body in motion, and a few months use of it will assure you health
and happiness for the rest of your life. “It is worth its weight in gold to me says a recent
letter. ‘‘ I would not sell it for all the gold in this State,” writes another grateful patient, it
will cure all Nervous and Organic Weakness, Rheumatism, Lame Back, Kidney and Bladder
Troubles, Indigestion, Dyspepsia, and all ailments following the effects of over-worked nerves.
It will prove of great value to any man who suffers from these ailments.
Gall to-day and test it free, or send for our oook, with full description. We will send it
closely sealed if you will enclose this ad. Consultation Hours, 9 a.m« to 9 p.m.
Or. |Qc[aughliti Electric Belt 85 King Sf*> Sisdneg
11l
43
HOTELKEEPERS!
MAKE YOUR OWN
/ERATEDWATERS.
rp HE “AUSTRAL” DERATED WATER MACHINE occu-
pies only Four Feet Square, will produce 150 Dozen per day of
Finest Waters (LEMONADE, GINGER ALE, SODAWATER, &c.)
at a Cost below Foul-ponce per Dozen. This machine
supersedes all others for SIMPLICITY and USEFULNESS, as it
requires no skilled labor to work it.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
ECKERSLEY & SONS,
214-216 Queen-st., MELBOURNE.
Please mention this 'paper when ordering.
mm
tiiUiUV*
IIIIU
FREE!
A BEAUTIFUL. SOLID GOLD RING set
with a Genuine Garnet.
NO MONEY WANTED.
Simply send us your name and address, plainly written on a postal card,
and we will send you 20 packages of our imperishable Violet Perfume in
a box—free of all expense to you. You then sell the perfume among your
friends and neighbours at 6d. a package (if you can), and when you remit
us the money you have collected and we will send you Absolutely Free
for your trouble the above described ring, which is stamped and war-
ranted Solid Gold, set with a Genuine Garnet. Remember
you have no duty or charges of any kind to pay—both the
perfume and premiums are sent absolutely Free of all charges.
Our object in making this marvellous offer, and giving such un-
usual fine premiums, is to get our very superior perfume into the
bands of the public immediately, as we are satisfied that everyone
■ ill be so well pleased with it that they will gladly recommend it
to their friends —we have hundreds of unsolicited testimonials.
Ynu simply send your name and address plainly written on a
■ust card, and we will send the perfume. No money required.
We take all risk. Goods returnable if not sold.
Remember we pay all Shipping Expente*.
NATIONAL SUPPLY CO.. 38 Pitt St„ Sydney, N.S.W.
Please mention this paper when ordering.
A Distinct Advance in Infant Feeding.
Allenburas Foods.
r A®iSlifi
SS&
*’*' .iF I**" 1 **"
1 '■Ttttlaocoi,oWfl*
•ft-*, .*«* = «■»■.MM ...-■*
, ——— ! H&Hanburt
Wen & H Jibuti 8 ;
2*V
The “Allenburys” Foods provide nourishment suited to the growing digestive powers
of the Infant, and constitute an altogether distinct advance on the mischievous expedient of trying
to make the child’s stomach accomodate itself to a food essentially unsuited to its digestive powers.
Farinaceous foods of all kinds are totally unfit for infants under five or six months of age, such foods
being a potent cause of digestive troubles, rickets, and many disorders arising from mal-nutrition.
The “Allenburys” Foods are especially valuable in hot
climates. They are in the form of powder and keep perfectly.
Pamphlet on
I INFANT FEEDING ” (48 pages) free, from
495, Bourke Street, Melbourne.
ALLEN & HANBURYS, Ltd., London, Eng.
MILK FOOD Mo,.* 1.
From birth to three months.
MILK FOOD No, 2.
From three to six months.
MALTED FOOD No. 3.
From six months and upwards.
CAPILLA
HAIR
TONIC
The Hair Restorer of the Century.
All Chemists and Storekeepers, 2/6 per bottle, or by post
from W. RICHARDS, Proprietor, 168 Pi.t-st., Sydne-,
N.S.W., 3/2. Obtainable in Melbourne at G. Swim’s,
Chemist, Collins-st. ; Victorian price, 3/-. Full Course
17/2; Inter-State, 19/2.
Discoveries by Christopher'M udd, F.L.S., F.R.G.S., M.B.Ph.S., Lend., Botanist to the King
England during His Majesty’s Indian Tour.
Eczema OLE AC
Cures this terrible itching complaint.
Not a grease. Does not stain the linen.
Full directions each jar. Jars, 4/6 ; post, 4/10
Used in the Melbourne Homoeopathic
Hospital with success.
FOR
THE
ANTHOS
HAIR
Hot a Grease, purely Botanical. i
Written testimony from well-known medical men.,
One bottle in daily use lasts about i months.'
“Anthos” prevents Hair falling out, Dandruff,!
and Irritation. Bottles, 2/6 ; posted, 3/3.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL CHEMISTS AND
Melbourne: Foy & Gibson’s.
Frank Buckhurst (Mutual Store).
R. W. Beddome & Co., 254 Bourke St.
Geo Swift (Block) 292 Collins St.
Bowen & Co., Swanston St.
Ballarat: J. W. Scott, Chemist, 141 Sturt St.
Bendigo : D. Anderson, Chemist, View St.
Geelong: J. F. Dentrv, Chemist, Moorabool St.
Sydney : Pattinson & Co. (all Branches)..
Park & §ov, 156 Pitt St.
colonial Representative : Fred. J. E. Phillips, 317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
I ;
IS
The GANZ
Electric Apparatus
are built right.
Let us give you some
evidence of their
superiority.
Portable Mine-Pimp driven by Threepbase Motor. SOl-E AGENTS :
The flastra! Otis Engineering go., [td., South |l|elb.
Zhe jtfost Refreshing 2)rink in jTusfrcrlicr.
Montserrat
Liroe-Frait Jaice
and Cordials • •
(TRADE BAR )
The LANCET says:~*‘ «
counsel the public to drink
1,1 .- t e-iruit Juice whenever and
wherever list, it is a far
more wholesome drink than
any form of Alcohol.”
« M.ntserrat” Lime-Fruit Juice, either with water or aerated water, is a
delightful thirst quencher.
Sole Consignees -EVANS, LESCHER & WEBB, LONDON.
EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
Agents Elliott Bros., Ltd., J. Connell & Co., Sydney ; D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.
«AUC
THE SALT OF THE EARTH
Is as nought compared
with the appetizing
qualities of
2/TMwO
SAUCE
SAUC
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
For Asthmatic people who suffer from
OP. RE iSiON in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and D FFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault's Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
GEIM—ULT & Co., Paris, soal by at IV.-i. . .
?*!
Dr. J: W. GIBBS’
. . Electric Massage Rol.ers . .
For use on Face and Body.
For NERVOUS HEADACHES,
NEURALGIA and. RHEUMATISM
—a specific. Removes Wrinkles.
Gold, 21/- Silver, 16/-
Post Free. Pamphlets Free.
AMERICAN ACEN3Y CD IPAN7,
Box 440, G.P.0.,
Melbourne.
Franz Josef
APERIENT WATER
Is the ONLY PALATABLE NATURAL
APERIENT WATER
Sole Agents Rocke, Tompsitt &Co., Melbourne.
A POLICY ToSThI~
Price till.;
Posted, Bd.
COMMON WCALTH
Since that lamentable episode when
Methuen marched in a circle and overtook and
captured the convoy at the tail of his own oolumn,
anything seems liable to happen. How would
this cablegram look, for instance:
Lord Methuen mistaking himself for somebody else,
surrounded himself, and took himself prisoner.
A few years ago, when the rare burglar
appeared in Adelaide, the papers always referred
to him as a visitor from the eastern States. lo-
day Adelaide has as many burglars in proportion
to population as any other Australian
the park dosser, particularly the lady dosser, is
becoming an institution. Cortes, by wa,y of co -
vinoing the King of Spain of the advanced civilisa-
tion of the Aztecs of Mexico, wrote “ A®, 1 ”
all other civilised cities, there are beggars in
streets.” In the City of Churches the number of
respeot ably-dressed men who say they have s
better days is surprising. They are a eompa
tively recent development, too, like the burglars.
What a number of better days there must have
been in Australia, and what a lot of peop e
mostly hash house-keepers —had some of them .


Everybody interested in the present war,
and concerned to know the truth about its origin,
and the manner in which it has been carried on,
should read Methuen’s “ Peace or War in South
Africa,” the best compendium of the subject
printed. Price, 6d. ; post free from Bulletin
office, Bd. . *
“Piles and Their Cure.”—The pamphlet
by Albert Sharp, entitled “ Piles and the Way to
Cure Them,” without operation, sent free, on
application to the Sydney Depot, 257 George-
street.* *
ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers & Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
B3F™ Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia.
CRA.IG & AITKEKT,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 George Street, Sydney.
THE BALLET GIRL
h
Her Theatrical and
Domestic Histoiy.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties.
Madame Panza, -
913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
TRIChOLOey
A Study of BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, By Dr.
ALFRED NEALE. Posted 7d.
SKIN DISEASES
and their Treatment.
Posted is Id.
Publishers : Turner and Henderson 9 SYDNEY*
MfRiNKLES and RAPID RULES~ BUSINESS** EMORY
w FIGURES. “ Useful little book. Rule® for S
calculation are excellent. Many valuable hints s F
News. “Memory system is ingenious.”-S.M Herat n
“If followed out should lead on to fortune.”—S D Tft r'
graph. Postal note, Is. J. 0. COX, DARLING ST
BALMAIN, SYDNEY. ’ bT -
EDWARDS’
Ja
k
i
UA
FOR
THE
HAIR
THE t ß £il HAI ? PRODUCER and restorer.
The Finest Dress ng-, Specially Prepared and Delicately Perfumed.
Has the distinguished honour of being used in almost every Roval
Palace throughout the World. * 7
ĥ
Monsieur Philosophow is commanded by
HER MAJESTY
THE QUEEN OF GREECE
to forward cheque for the six bottles of
‘ Harlene ” duly received.
H.R.Hi Princess Marie of Greece wishes six bottles
“ Harlene ” for the Hair sent immediately
Crown Prince's Palace ,
H R.H. PRINCESS MARIE OF GREECE writes:
Preparation, “ Harlene ” for the Hair, has given entire satisfaction.
r
of Edwards’
A thens , Greece .
Messrs. Edwards’
H.R.H.
“ Harlene ”
The PUKE OF SPARTA
• the Hair sent by express parcel post.
Palace of Prince Royal, Athens.
requires six bottles of Edwards’
H.R.H. PRINCESS HOH2NLOHE
of “ Harlene ” for the Hair by return.
Esterhazy Uteza,3o, Buda-Pest.
writes: Please send me three bottles
H.R.H. PRINCE GEORGE of GREECE
Canea, Crete.
{High Commissioner of Crete)
writes: Please'to forward three bottles of “ Harlene ” for the Hair at once
l/»» 2/6, and (3 times a/6 size), 4/S per Bottle, evepywhe 1-0.
The New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency
Co., Limited, report to Feb. 28: —Wheat: Though no
alteration in values has occurred since our last report
the market has assumed a quieter aspect. Arrivals have
been considerable, and though many sales have been
effected ex trucks at Darling Harbor, a fair portion has
been taken into store, owners’ views being above current
rates. Quotations may be thus given—Prime, 3s. 3d. ;
f.a.q., 3s. 2d. to 3s. 2jd. : chickwheat, 2s. lOd. to 2s. lid.
per bushel.*
3O
,B I"
j I do not ask you ~to spend
money to whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’
Dance, etc. All I aßk of vou
is to SEND for a FREE
Bottle and to try it I abide
by the result. A safe remedy—
approved by the Medical
Profession.
H. O. ROOT, 28,EndsIelgh
Gardens, London. N.W.
LADIES.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
Amusements.
JHEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIA’S UNIQUE ATTRACTION.
EVERY EVENING at 7.55,
George Musgrove’s Greatest of all his Great Productions,
ALADDIN. ALADDIN.
The Most Unique Chinese-Japanese Entertainment in
Existence.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Matinees Wed. and Sat..
2 P- m - THOS. P. HUDSON.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ ■ Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING at 7.45.
MATINEES EVERY WED. and SAT. at 2.
THE GREATEST SPECTACLE OF MODERN DAYS,
Messrs. KLAW and ERLANGER’S Stupendous Pro-
duction of Genera] Lew Wallace’s
BEN
PRICES AS USUAL.
HUR.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
IYCEUM THEATRE, SYDN-EY.
£ e ® s $ e Mr. Wm. Anderson.
Sub Lessee .. .. Bland Holt.
A SUPREME ACHIEVEMENT.
The First Sydney Production by BLAND HOLT’S
POPULAR PREMIER DRAMATIC COMBINATION
of the Truly Great Melodrama,
HEARTS ARE TRUMPS.
POPULAR PRICES—3s,, 25., Is. Box Plan at Elvv’s
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
pA L ACE THEAT R E, SY D NEY,
■ Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. J. C. WILLIAMSON, LEE, and RIAL.
TO-NIGHT, AND EVERY NIGHT, PROMPTLY at 8,
and
MATINEES, WED. AND SAT., at 2.30.
Children, Half-price to all parts.
THE WORLD'S ENTERTAINERS
(POLITE VAUDEVILLIANS)
NEW COMERS. OLD FAVORITES.
Prices—3s., 2s. & Is. Early Doors until 7.30, 6d. extra
THEATRE, S Y D N E /
Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards
GREAT SUCCESS of the PEERLESS PEGGY PRYDE
MDLLE. LOTTY. GALLANDO.
WESTON & YOST. COLBY & WAY
LUNDGREENS. PASTOR & RAND AT,I,
CASSELLI SISTERS. NET BALL PLAYERS.
JAMES OPIE. C. N. BROWN-PARKER.
Pnces-2/6, 2/-, 1/6, 1/-, 6d. Pox Plan at Palings
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS.'
DICKARDS’ NEW OPERA HOUSE
■* . MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mr. HARRY RICKARDS
EVERY EVENING, at 8 p.m
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS at 2.30p.m.
At the Matinee on Saturday, DERENDA & BREEN
The Greatest Comic Jugglers in the World ’
CALLAHAN & MACK, WINTCN & M'QINTY
VAL VOUSDEN, FOUR RIANOS, S. HOLDSWORTH
MDLLE. NADINE, DAN CONROY, and the full
strength of Mr. Harry Rickards’New Tivoli Vaudeville Co.
Prices 2s. 6d., 25., Is., and 6d. Plan at Allan’s.
pRiNCESii’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove
Acting-Manager .. Thos. P. Hudson.
. GREAT TRIUMPH of MISS NELLIE STEWART
m the Most Successful Humorous High-clasAComedy ever
produced in the English language,
SWEET NELL OF OLD DRURY.
NELL GWYNNE .. MISS NELLIE STEWART
Supported by Mr. George Musgrove’s NEW
ENGLISH DRAMATIC CO.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allan’s.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
" v Lessee Mr. Bland Holt.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. William Anderson
EVERY EVENING, THE UNIVERSAL FAVORITE
JOHN F SHERIDAN.
FRIDAY, MARCH 7, LAST NIGHT of
WHEN THE LAMPS ARE LIGHTED.
SAT. MARCH 8, FUN ON THE BRISTOL.
Prices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Representative, MICHAEIj JOSEPH.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE^
■ ■ Sole Lessee and Manager : Mr. J. C. Williamson
Bus. Manager, George Tallis. Treas., E J Tait
EVERY EVENING,
THE RUNAWAY GIRL
in Melbourne, where she is Nightly Welcomed by
Thunders of Applause and Shouts'of Delight.
Interpreted by full strength of the
ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO
Prices as Usual, ‘m Box Plan at Allan's.
DIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
** Sole Lessees & Managers, J. C. Williamson, Lee & Rial
Every Evening, at 8. Matinees, Wednesdays & Saturdays
MAGNIFICENT AND COMPLETE ” SUCCESS y ’
of the
, NEW COMPANY of
THE WORLD’S ENTERTAINERS
(POLITE VAUDEVILLE).
PRICES—3s., 25., and Is. Box Plan at Allan & Co’s
Menzies Hotel, The Grand Hotel, and at the theatre
phone, 1359. JOE BROWN, Business Manager.
“When the Maddens left vice-regal bliss, cast-
ing * one longing, lingering look behind,’ they
probably reflected (with truth) that the authorities
had failed to add to gubernatorial glitter by sub-
stituting new lamps for old. Trim, little, grey
General CJjjrke isn’t half so florid a figure-head as
blarneying Judge Madden. The new Governoress,
with her grey hair and dark eyes, is certainly
something of a high-stepper, but, on the other
hand, her daughter can’t hold a candle to the
Madden Ruby.
“ The deputy sub-King is conscious of the same
matrimonial responsibilities as the King himself,
though in a less degree. Hence, marrL.ge with a
vice-subject, though common, has its disadvan-
tages, and that’s why certain marriage-mongers
moot, as a desirable alliance, a union between the
slim, dark, only daughter of our minor vice-regal
house, and the fat, fair, only son of the dethroned
dynasty. Of course, the suggested bridegroom is
no longer en 'prince, but you can’t ‘ wash the balm
off an anointed king ’ —or vice-king, and though it
was young What’s-his-name’s Pa, not himself, that
got ‘anointed,’ still ‘balm’ is, I guess, hereditary
to a certain extent, and survives office —also to a
certain extent. However, whether the Clarke
and Madden clans are likely to be permanently
allied or not, a tempoiary connecting link already
exists in the person of long, lean Captain Vallange,
private-secretary to Gov. Clarke and son-in-law of
Judge Madden. When buxom Sylvia Madden
married young Yallange, her pa was at the zenith
of his glory. The wedding-feast was eaten at
Govt. House; ‘Victorian girls’ donated diamonds;
and society journals described th'e bridegroom as
lord of ancestral English acres, with a yearly
income of £6OOO. Evidently there’s something in
Australia after all, for, with these strong reasons
for liking Britain, the Vallanges have passed most
of their married life under the gleam of the kanga-
roo—‘himself’ turning his hand to such aide de-
camp and attache jobs as have presented them-
selves.
“The modernest of Yankee millionaires threaten
to rival their women folk in the magnificence of
their jewels. The great jewel theft that set New
York recently.by the ears' opens our eyes as to the
vanity of big brother Jonathan. In this instance
a valet robbed his master —one Mr. Thebaud —of
an ‘ eleven-carat, pear-shaped diamond worth
£4OOO, a rare pearl valued at £3OOO, and 275 scarf
pins.’ As the theft was effected during a visit of
Mr. and Mrs. Thebaud to some friends at White
Plains, it is evident that the whole 275 scarf pins
were on active service. Just imagine—27s scarf
pins ! Why the average man boasts one, and the
sprig of fashion, none. The cameos and pearls of
long ago are mostly now decorating the windows
of the sign of Three Balls.
“The absence of Suffragist Vida Goldstein is
much felt by the hard-working Public Service she-
clerks. These fair agitators are mostly of the
G.P.O. branch, and after 20 years’ service of eight
hours per day are only in receipt of £B4 a year.
Now that the bright and comely Vida is on
her way to Uncle Sam’s domain, there is no one
to captivate bachelor and other politicians and
beguile them to take up the cause of the toil-worn
sisterhood. The way the winsome leader of
Oman’s Rights used to lobby the Nice members
of the House of Reps., and appeal pathetically to
them from her corner in the gallery, with her
note-book in her hand, and a wistful look in her
eye, was a very influential way. Now, the petti-
coated quill-drivers of the G.P.O. are searching
for a like eloquent advocate—one to voice their
claim to a decent increment, and to the status of
the men clerks, whose work is but on a level with
their own.
A section of London is going to the dogs nightly
with great eagerness. These dogs are music-hall
animals, and do their novel “ turn ” like first-class
biped mummers. They are dressed up to repre-
sent a more or less happy family that is broken
up by the efforts of an outsider to establish a
manage & trois. There are the husband and wife
and the gay bachelor. Husband takes a tender
farewell of his wife and starts for the city. Then
the villain dog strolls round and taps at the bed-
room window. A s soon as it is opened he
scrambles in, and the audience sits waiting and
whispering—questioning the morality of teaching
dogs to behave like humans, and saying that their
owner deserves hydrophobia. Then the husband-
dog returns in a great hurry and, with a revolver,
shoots his faithless mate and false friend.
English papers are carefully pointing out that
the rose is to be the coronation flower, and “loyal
subjects must be careful to intermingle red roses
and white, King Edward being an equal representa-
tive of the Houses of York and Lancaster.” This
is another effort at keeping up the pretence that the
royal family of England is an English royal family
and not a made-in-Germany imported article.
Queen Victoria used to revel in talking of her
“martyred ancestor, Charles 1.,” and the best
way of ingratiating oneself with the irritable old
lady tvas to talk of her “Divine right ” to the
throne. But, as a matter of fact, since the days
of Elizabeth there hasn’t been a genuine. English
monarch of England. The Scotch monarchs who
followed her were, however, at least British,
except that they had a very large infusion of
French blood. Then" came Dutch William, and
another temporary reversion to the Scoto-
French line, followed by the German Georges—
Hanoverians who didn’t even talk English. Since
then the royalties of England have been through-
out pure German, and have always married pure
Germans, until Edward VII. took a Danish wife.
The only English royal blood in Great Britain
sports the bar sinister ; the German Kings of the
country, though they never stooped to an English
•wife, occasionally condescended to an English
mistress. j
Yours -affectionately,
AKENEHI.
The f criminal person who lives by exploit-
ing his neighbors in these modern days is a man
of method. He does not blunder around with a
crowbar at times when he may be disturbed, but,
when a likely house is spotted, he first finds out
how many people are living there, also their
names. Then he watches till"'it is Mary Jane’s
afternoon off and only one of the family is at
home—generally a woman. To her he sends a
telegram that the husband or somebody has met
with an accident, and she’s to come to the hospital
at onoe. Then the house is artistically ransacked.
At Poverty Point.
xr^ e violinist Stanley Moses, whose death took place at
.9,® (France) a few days ago, married recently a
millionairess of Brussels, a lady of mature years, but
reputed to be charming and talented. The letter which
cold of the violinist’s marriage and the cable report of his
death arrived almost together.
I* is unreliably rumored that the Church of England
authorities at Newcastle will refuse the money raised by
Mrs. J. R. Wood by hrr open-air Shakespearian per-
formances, on the ground that many paid for admission,
not to help the Cathedral fund, but to view “ Miss
Jenyns shapely limbs as Rosalind.
Re deaths of Miss Sally Booth and Miss Ada Lee from
plague. Pour years ’ago a well-known Australian actor
complained to the: Town Hall people about the con-
dition of the Criterion Theatre, Sydney. They thanked
him effusively, and they would lo >k into the matter.
But n°thid,r was done ; possibly beca ise the building was
in the clutches of an all-powerful banking concern, which,
most likely, did not care to incur the necessary expense.
Brough told his audience at Auckland (M.L.) the other
week that he and his wife would never, never see them
again. As the Broughs, up to then, had been enjoying an
enormously successful tour through Maoriland, their talk
or retirement from the stage sounds sincere, but they
have not yet farewelled in Australia. This country
owes it to the Broughs to send them away with a solid re-
tiring allowance.
*. ‘ S P rin »” ' A delightful skit on the war was served up
• '1® n ey Agricultural Ground by the contingent a few
before its embarkation. A fifty-minutes sham-
hght took place. The din of battle was awful, and the ex-
cited spectators eagerly awaited the “ bag.” The vic-
torious army returned to camp apparently struggling
with the whole captured Boer commando in its midst—
and yet the camp fire showed only one old Boer. Official
report: “ Heavy engagement lasting fifty minutes ; many
Boers supposed to be wounded ; all greatly frightened ;
9?.P*’ u f, e d-” After the prisoner had sung “ Soldiers of
the Kmg,” a fat officer informed the reserved pavilion
that he was going to be shot, whether for bad singing or
reckless defence of his country didn’t transpire. Then
the whole army carefully went to sleep, and when the
sentry awoke he was just in time to jerk the old escaping
Boer back to the lines. Again the beefy officah sentenced
h irn in a loud voice to be shot. As he fell, apparently
smothered in gore, a Boer commando attacked, and in
the confusion the Boer got up and ran. De Wet had
again got away.
Shaw has managed to get his play, “ Mrs.
Warren’s Profession,” produced at a club theatre, after
the Lord Chamberlain had refused to license it, and all
London managers had declined to lend or let their stages.
The profession ”is what Kipling has called the Oldest
in the World, and is stated as returning 35 per cent,
profit on outlay ! Fanny Brough, in the name-part, has
the already much-quoted remark, that the only way for a
poor girl to get a decent living is to be good to some man
who can afford to be good to her. (“ Decent Living ”is
flood.) Also, she argues with her grown-up daughter,
who has other views: “Do you think your aunt and I
were such fools as to let other people trade on our good
looks by employing us as shop-girls, or barmaids, or
waitresses, when we could trade on them ourselves, and
get all the profits? Not likely.” Julius Knight was in
the cast. What a fate for the noble legs of Marcus
Superbus !
“ Melb.”: Williamson’s operatic concerts were patronised
by the Kirk, Goshen, and Ebenezer. Aminadab Sleek and
the porcine young Miss Aminadabs were in the balcony ;
Chadband was in the stalls, and Stiggins was a bobber. To
others the bouquet was somewhat withered.
While singing a duet with Philip Newbury at Lawrence
(M.L.), the other evening, Madame Emily Spada was
stung on the cheek by a bee. The lady made a wild
clutch at her face, and threw the bee heavily on the
floor, but proceeded with the duet without any noticeable
interruption. The average man under the same circum-
stances would have stopped dead in his warbling, said
thing's about the insect, and fled off the stage, with both
hands to his head, to look for whisky.
“ Melb.”: Last night I went to one of the busking
theatrical shows in a suburb. Overflowing audience,
mostly a clan of howling boys, at threepence. The leading
performers included several persons of long and honor-
able careers. The intellectual standard of the play was
far above that of any Melbourne representation on the
same night. With what conscientious care and skill the
leading lady and her associates went through their parts 1
How thorough was their technique ! Might not a place,
with regular two “ quids,” be found for such people in a
National Theatre of Instruction? They carry all Shake-
speare in their heads.
It is an amazing fact that ‘‘ lolanthe,” the most beauti-
fully humorous of the Gilbert and Sullivan operas, was
never revived in London until December last. First
produced at the Savoy on Nov. 9, ’B2; it ran for some
months, but although there have been revivals of “ Pina-
fore ” and the later operas, “ lolanthe ” was an abandoned
reef for 19 years. W. S. Gilbert superintended the re-
hearsals, and brought the dialogue up-to-date in places.
Strephon, complaining that although his fairy body is
out-and-out Tory, his mortal legs are a pair of confounded
Radicals, goes.on to say that one leg is “ actually inclined
to kick up its heel in the Pro-Boer interest.”
“ J.A.C.” : A correspondent, writing from London
(13/l/’O2), sends the following :—“ Miss Holroyd is in
Milan. She has made very great progress during the
time she has been there. She is studying histrionic art,
and will probably soon make, her debut—in Italy. Her
knowledge of Italian is now quite sufficient. I met
Florence Schmidt yesterday. She has really had great
success, is in the very front rank, and certainly might
have sent many more good reports of her doings if she
were made that way. After the first successful appear-
ance of a concert-singer in London, it is from the pro-
vinces that the engagements come pouring in, and about
these, of course, one hears nothing in Australia, unless
the singer chooses to send anything. Miss Schmidt is
singing twice this week at the Queen’s Hall here.
On Saturday afternoon I heard Amy Castles. She seems
to be singing at Boosey’s Ballad Concerts only, for I
nowhere else see her name announced, either here or in
the country, and the concert announcements in the
advertising columns of the daily papers are the best in-
dications of an artist’s pecuniary worth. Her voice, of
good quality, is as so many others that it could hardly
account for the tremendous trumpeting of her fame ;
while the upper notes that so much attracted attention
appear to be no longer there—an A“ sung in ‘Good
Bye,’ comparatively woolly, weak, and unposed, seemed
m,wnr he lu , nifc ?\ her com P aas - She sang the song nicely,
quietly, and quite unemotionally, and evidently does not
E„ a " r ° f the faculty or intensity Sf
sentiment necessary for a remarkable singer. The press-
W , ere re P ri “ ted in the AUSTRALASIAN^ Were
and mS .f/ weeded ’ of anything uncomplimentary,
fn i,I J? h criticism suppressed. She appears
of t b ho u t n nde u d by a number of supporters in isolated parts
of the hall who are patiently allowed by the rest of the
audience to bring her out as often as they like. This
appears to be the case when anv Australian
act t ual success at this concert was
programme B ” than that ° f any other con tributor to the
•rrv’« N r eXt f u?ust or so Sophie Harris,” writes The Bulle-
.°udon. correspondent, “ who is well-known to you,
and Wnlf^ m p ta l a °T IC . opera > b y Arthur Shirley
present Iter Parke, before Australian audiences. She is at
a Pantomime as principal boy at Bournemouth,
a swagger seaside resort, in ‘The Babes in the Wood’
a " d fi aa P a Q rt 'P r .°P r ' etor of the show is sharing in handsome
f n h ,n' , P h ' e always knocks along successfully whether
ju “ ' or . theatre, and soon comes to a good understand
oif, a st «king pair o’ them—with her audience^
one has been p. boy here m panto, every, year since 1893.”
Rm t I™\ T r rea !? 1)r ’ at the Gaiety Theatre,” writes The
Bulletin s London correspondent, “is all the brighter
for Maie Saqui, whom most will remember as achild-
a fe w .years ago ‘ out there.’ Of the slight and
graceful, willowy type, delicate and refined of feature, with
effective eyes, dancing in a subtly saccharine smile, Maie
qw dlml y recalls the little Melbourne danseuse of 13.
ohe has hit the Gaiety chief, George Edwards, very
hard, and after an engagement of three years he still
retains her among the Gaiety Girls. But the
u°, , to :„ ay > Male sa y s . ar e not at all the G.G.’s im-
peached by The Bulletin in the verses, ‘ Gone away are
the Gaiety Girls,’ some 10 years or so back. The era of
the Gaiety siren has, indeed, dwindled in so far as con-
?® rns , tb e giddy go-iness that one time effectually paled
the red lamp of burlesque.”
Apropos Essie Jenyns. Henrietta Sontag returned to
the stage, after an unbroken absence of 25 years, and had
not lost an atom of her brilliancy. The stage appear-
ances of Mrs. Boucicault, in London, a few years ago,
were painful, more especially as this whilom star enacted
old women. D.G. soon withdrew her.
They run in all shapes. The latest addition to Sydney’s
street entertainers is a clerical-looking elocutionist, who
recites with appropriate action at street corners and
holds out a clerical-looking hat for the casual copper.
He has a loud, rich voice that would stand to him if he
were to start a pew religion.
A rather superfluous new memoir of Barry Sullivan, by
one Sillard, may be summarised thus : His proper name
was Thomas Sullivan, and he added the Barry at man-
hood. Born 1821. First appearance at the Cork Theatre,
1837. Got to the Edinburgh Theatre Royal in 1841.
During one of his years there, as walking gentleman, the
company acted 132 plays in 150 nights. In 1847, Sullivan
was leading man at Liverpool at £5 a week. Advanced
to Manchester at £6 10s. Engaged for the London Hay-
market, in 1852, at J2lO a week. Irving played small
parts to him in an Edinburgh engagement in 1857.
Eighteen months in America advanced Sullivan’s prestige
before coming to Australia. Opened in Melb. in 1862.
Commenced management in 1863. Got £6O a night,
three nights a week, at Drury Lane in 1866. His pay at
Drury in 1868 was £75 a night. Lost £BOOO managing
the Holborn Theatre. Acted Richard 111. 60 nights
running at Drury Lane in 1876. After his last American
trip he refused £24,000 for 10 months there. In his last
engagements he occasionally cleared £l2OO a week at
first-class English provincial theatres.
A copy of “A Policy for the Common-
wealth,” The Bulletin’s particularly suc-
cessful pamphlet, will be posted from this office to
any Australian address on receipt of Bd. in stamps
of any State).
The J.P. again: At Rotorua (M.L.) two
of the species fined a man £2 for cruelly flogging
five horses; and for lighting a fire under them
and burning their bodies horribly, which the ac-
cused admitted doing, they didn’t fine him any-
thing—only ordered him to come up for sentence
when called upon. Yet, though cruelty is so
lightly regarded in Maoriland, Premier Seddon
and his kind are shocked beyond words at the
suggestion that any Maoriland soldier could
possibly behave otherwise than as a tender Chris-
tian in S’Africa.


Three Years
Liver Trouble.
CLEMENTS TONIC SOLELY RESPONSIBLE FOR CURE
The Case of
Mrs. KATHERINE GARLAND.
(by our special reporter.)
“ Your visit has come as a pleasant
eurprise to me,” was the remark with which
Mrs. Garland, of No. 4 Denham-street,
Surry Hills, greeted the reporter from this
journal, as it saves me the trouble of
writing to you about my bad attack of liver
complaint, from which I suffered terribly.
I am a very poor correspondent at the best
of times, preferring like most members of
my sex, to receive letters rather than write
them ; but I am so conscious of a deep
obligation to Clements Tonic for restoring
me to health that I made up my mind to
write expressing my gratitude, and as you
have obviated that duty I will gladly give
the fullest details.
“ How long did your liver trouble afflict
you ? ” asked the reporter.
“ For fully three years, and I hope it will
never come on again. Do you know, I
believe I would rather be dead than
continue like I was then. The first sign of
my failing health was an unaccountable
fastidiousness regarding my food. I some-
times felt like eating a little, and as soon as
it was before me I should turn right against
it, and do nothing but mince and turn it
over, then finally leave it alone. There
was always a sickly, sour taste in my mouth,
my tongue being so dry and rough,
particularly in the morning, and I was often
seized with a fit of vomiting, which was
invariably followed by the act of belching
distasteful gases from the stomach. The
operation of ridding myself of the bile and
Bour wind from the stomach caused me no
end of discomfort and pain, and blinding
headaches were frequently experienced
after I had been retching. Heavy pains in
the shoulders, and sometimes in the chest,
often paid me more attention than was
agreeable, as they made me form the
opinion that I was slowly falling into the
clutches of some dreadful disease. Indeed,
this idea was made all the more likely by
the yellowish hue of my skin, and my eyes
became a dirty green colour. ., Liver spots
also came out on my chest. Besides the.
pains in the chest and shoulders, I would
have severe attacks in the side, and they
were so excessively tormenting that I had
to apply hot fomentations, but they only
gave temporary relief, and made the next
attack more acute. It was next door to
impossible to ever get a brief respite from
my many ailments, for I could scarcely ever
get to sleep, and the little repose that did
occasion a ly come to me was marked by
unpleasant dreams and restlessness. On
awakening it required a great stretch of
imagination to believe I had slept at all,
so weary and fatigued would I feel. My
limbs ached with sheer weakness, and I’m
sure I was an object deserving compassion
when crawling about the house in my vain
efforts to do a little housework, only to sit
down quite exhausted and fret for hours.
When I wanted to stand up I had to do so
carefully and steadily, otherwise a fainting
giddiness would take charge of me, and my
head would whirl round like a spinning-
wheel. These fainting sensations left me
dreadfully depressed and low-spirited, and
I sat or lay brooding over my misfortunes
till I got very melancholy. There was not
an ounce of flesh on my bones. So weak and
debilitated had I become that I was almost
afraid to look in the glass.”
“You look remarkably well now, how-
ever, Mrs. Garland.”
“Yes, thank God, 1 am like I used to be
before my three years’ sickness. But you
have not learned all my troubles. The
worst and most terrifying thing has yet to
be described. I have not yet mentioned the
anxiety my heart used to cause me. You
do not think I look like a woman whoso
heart) is diseased, do you ? No; I’m sure
I don’t. But I was almost worried to death
with that thought when I was so ill. My
heart used to start suddenly, beating with
such violence that I dreaded it stopping or
easing off, in case it would stop for ever.
But it would quieten down after nearly
scaring the life out of me, only to start
again with renewed rapidity. I have since
learned that palpitation of the heart occurs
in liver jlisease cases when they are very
serious, bo mine must have been a very bad
case.”
“And what treatment did yon receive
from your doctor ? ”
“ Oh, the usual—medicines and pills, and
I don’t mind telling you that the liquids
they termed medicines did me no end of
injury. Why, I used to loathe the thought
of swallowing it; the smell was offensive
and the taste was disgusting. But I
persevered with them for three years all to
no purpose. Then a friend told me that
Clements Tonic was the best thing for me to
take, which I did, and you can see the
result for yourself. Clements Tonic seemed
a little bitter at first, but I could soon drink
it like water, without any reluctance what-
ever. But even if it had been gall I would
have drank it, because it brought about my
convalescence in no time. I told my doctor
I would rather have Clements Tonic than all
his stuff, as it was doing me good, and his
physic had completely failed. He replied :
‘ Well, I’ll not make much out of you now.’
And he spoke truthfully, for I can be
independent of all doctors now. I rapidly
experienced ease from pains in the stomach,
chest and shoulders, and the easing of pains
in the head brought delightful, soothing
sleep. My appetite came back, and I- did
not notice any discomfort after eating. The
liver spots were eradicated, and my skin
recovered its usual colour. No more fears
of heart disease worried me, as the palpit-
ation disappeared with the other disagree-
able symptoms. To he as brief as possible,
I must candidly admit that C ements Tonic
is solely responsible for my cure. When my
son-in-law was up in the mountains he wrote
saying he wa»*ick, and I sent him a couple
of bottles of Clements Tonic to Katoomba.
He subsequently thanked me, stating that
the medicine I had forwarded had cured
him. One of my daughters has been under
treatment during the past twelve months
for asthmatical bronchitis (another doctor
says it is heart disease she has got). They
have not done her the least good with their
physic, so lately she has been taking
Clements Tonic. She has had three bottles
up to now, and she is making good progress
in the right direction. I believe Clements
Tonic will make a woman of her again. My
faith in it is without limit, and I am so
grateful for its effect upon myself and
relatives that you can publish my testimony
as much as you please.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I Katiibrinb Garland, of No. 4 Denhatt-street,
Surry Hills, Sydney, in the Colony of New South
Wales, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, consisting of
five folios, and consecutively numbered from one to
five, and that it contains and is a true and faithful
aocount of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic,
and also contains my full permission to publish in any
way my statements—which I give voluntarily, without
receiving any payment; and I make this solemn
declaration conscientiously believing the same to be
true and by virtue of the provisions of an Act made
and'passed in the ninth year of the reign of ner
present Majesty, intituled “ An Act for the more
effectual abolition of Oaths and Affirmations taken
and made in the various Departments of the Govern-
ment of New South Wales, and to substitute Declara-
tions in lieu thereof, and for the suppression of
voluntary and Extra-judicial Oaths and Affidavits.”
nJLc*. eL.
declared at Surry Hills, this 11th day of August
t thousand nine hundred, before me,
A. DAVIDSON. J.P
A NEW BROWNIE KODAK
For Pictures 2£ x 3£ Inches.
<s>
S:
Ts
rfl
r ,
The No. 2
BROWNIE
KODAK. .
pp'tee 10/ ss only.
LOADED AND UNLOADED IN DAYLIGHT.
Send for Illustrated and Descriptive’
Leaflet and mention this paper.
Limited, & Reduced, 284 COLLINS STREET,
And of all Photographic Dealers. . . . MELBOURNE*
Bus incss Announcements.
Good Tailoriog.
SUMMER
WORSTEDS,
TWEEDS,
SERGES,
&c. f &o.
Patterns and Self-Measure Charts Post tree*
David Braham & Co.,
Tailors and Mercers,
73 AND 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR
All Kinds of Shirts.
Price List and Samples Post Free.
gdf
ħ
g
FOR THE TREATMENT OF
Catarrh, Hay Fever,
Bronchitis, Influenza,
Catarrhal Deafness, &c.
/dedicator, wiih complete treat-
ment, only 10s. post free.
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY,
229. 231 Collin*St. Mel*.
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney
Sending, mention this paper.
R X CORO'S
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS..
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled rand
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
Agents for Australatia— PEßßY sTcO., 47 Queen St,
Melbourne jv Wholesule Agents for New South Wales—^
Australian Drugr Co., Ltd., O’Connell St., Sydney. AS
Chemists, or Box 165, C.P.B-
nrn
DEAF
h
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
I Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free. •
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne,
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
rHLOROPYHE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHEA, *»-. beara °“
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor —•
Pr.J. COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS 0»
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“If I were asked which single medicine I should!
prefer to take abroad with' me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all.
others, I should say Chlorodyne. 1 never travel,
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number simple ailments torms
its best recommendation. ”
TVEAR SIR,-1 have been cured of Weakness and De
U bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr. ROBERT
E. PARKHURST, Pitt-street, Sydney.
CALVERT’S
20 per cent.
CARBOLIC
SOAP
Cures and prevents Insect
and Mosquito bites.
The strongest Carbolic Toilet Soap.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
P| AID’D
GOUT 5 RHEUMATIC
PIXiXaS.
The Great English Remedy for
GOUT, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO & NEURALGIA.
The acute pain is quickly relieved and cured in a
few days by this celebrated Medicine.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, and sold at Is. l£d. and 2s. 9u.
per box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
“Don’t shout”.
df
LV
• 1 hear you. I can hear now
as well as anybody.
• •How?’ Oh. some
ihlngnew— The Wilson.
Common-sense Ear--.
Drum. I've a pair in my
ears now. you can't see them
—they're-invisible. I wouldn.,
know I had them in myseli.j
only that I hear all right.”
The Wilson Ear-Drum is
really a substitute for the
working parts of the
natural ear. Has no
wire. Invisible, easy to ad
just, comfortable Totally
different from any other de-
vice Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request
,1. CNAlltm, 229-231 Collins &1-, Help.
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
9
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole Agents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English
American and made to order
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, <bc.
DENYER BROS.. Surgical Instrument Makers
281 GEORGE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
gd
The “Quaker” Turkish
& Vapor Bath Cabinet.
All who suffer from Rheumatism,
Liver, Kidney or Bladder troubles,
Neuralgia, Eczema, Night Sweats,
&c., should have one of these
Cabinets. Price 307-
Head and Face Steamer, 47-
Can be forwarded to any address.
J. CHALMERS, Agent,
229 Collins St., Melbourne
THE NEW FRENCH REMEDY
THERAPION
This suc-
cessful
and highly
popular remedy, as employed in the Continental Hospi-
tals by Ricord, Rostan, Jobert, Velpeau, and others,
combines all the desiderata to be sought in a medicine of
the kind, and surpasses everything hitherto employed.
THERAPION No. 1 maintains its world-renowned
and well-merited reputation for derangements of the
kidneys, pains in the back, and kindred ailments, afford-
ing prompt relief where other well-tried remedies have
been powerless. . , , ~ .
THERAPION No. 2, for impurity of he blood,
scurvy, pimples, spots, blotches, pains and swellings of
the joints, gout, rheumatism, and all diseases fo which
it has been too much a fashion to employ mercury, sarsa-
parilla, &c., to the destruction of sufferers’ teeth and ruin
of health. This preparation purifies the whole system
through the blood, and thoroughly eliminates every
poisonous matter from the body. >
THERAPION No. 3, for exhaustion, sleeplessness,
and all the distressing consequences of dissipation, worry,
overwork, etc. It possesses surprising power in restoring
strength and vigor to those suffering from the enervating
influences of long residences in hot, unhealthy climates.
THERAPION
may be procured of the
principal Chemists and
Merchants throughout the world. Price in England, 2s. 9d.
and 4s 6d. In ordering state which of the three numbers
is required, and observe that the word “Tiierapion”
appears on the British Government Stamp (in white
letters on a red ground) affixed to every genuine package
by order of His Majesty’s Hon. Commissioners, and with-
out which it is a forgery. .
f
A Wonderful power 1» placed at your disposal in Hypnotism
“the power to control others-to relieve disease-to make
frimfdf-to make money-and gratify your ambition You may
become a commanding master of humanity. In fact, there i«
so much that is wonderful to tell you about it that I hare
had
»^pTerernTo 8 4af"
may bMured-often in a single treat-
ment. Backward or ungovernable
children show marvellous improve-
ment under hypnotio treatment at the
hands of their parents or others.
I have taught thousands of hypno-
tists in America. Hundreds of de-
lighted students in Australia already.
I reach them through my book. The
system is very simple. Th ereiano
reason why you should not become
as good a Hypnotist as I am.
Satisfaction guaranteed.
Send address in full. Yo “
receive the “ KEY TO HYPNOTISM
existed in a plain cover. Absolutely
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
•IHB greatest hypnotist of the century,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
gdf
gdfgdfgdf
Dr. LANGSTON’S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
A Tested and infallible Remedy,
*®&rtßSBßS£
-A rnuip. Home Tteatmmt .iiJ.eu.
only .t to WJ..JW* *
SURGEON LANGSTON
3 , 6 8 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.


r
T
N
V' ■
r'
■mh‘ffi
fcv'..'" : k:k,
.! 3: >
■ ' ;
Photo from Life.
Original may be Been at 113, Regent Street, London, W.
KSSi!
H
i
Kni#A Unaer Royal Patronage.
KOKQ FOR THE HAIR
\l^^ l^ nsiD «- i“ v igo»ating preparation, causes tne hair to grow
rS X^n,,^htl^’ k j^ ps . ltso i t an<i P liant . imparts to it the lustre and freshness
e f™ l 9 ates dandriff, prevents hair from falling, is the most
cleanly of all hair preparations, and is perfectly harmless.
PADI C l n/t? k*
OLD PEOPLE LIKE IT
P?' wer to invigorate decayed hair, and induce an entire
new growth when that is oosslMn.
r? **** to mvi
new growth when that is possible.
MIDDLE-AGED people like it,
because it prevents them from getting bald, keeps dandriff away, and
makes the hair grow thick and strong.
in iu eyuuiia tueui lruiu
11« makes the hair grow thick and s
young ladies like it
as a dressing, because it gives the hair a beautiful glossy lustre, ensures a
luxuriant growth, and to dress it and keep it in any style
that may be desired.
CHILDREN LIKE IT,
111 because it keeps the hair and scalp cool and clean, allays irritation, and
II 1 keeps the hair in whatever position desired
THEY ALL LIKE
IT,
because it is as pure as crystal, perfectly colourless, contains no poisonous
substance, no sugar of lead, sulphur, nitrate of silver* or grease, and does
not soil or colour the scalp, face, or the most delicate fabric in clothing,
produces a wonderfully pleasant and cooling effect on the head, and no
other dressing is needed to give the hair the most beautiful appearance
possible. Try it once, and you will use no other. It contains no
colouring matter or dye.
s
I
h
KOK.O is sold in 1/-, 2/6 and 4/6 bottles everywhere.
Australian Depot. Eoko-Maricopas Co. Ltd.. 14, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
CAUTION— See that this Registered Trade Mark is on every bottle
ĥ
Beanie’s Bronchitis Cure.
THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR.
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA. 7
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain. . ’
BKWARS or* COUGHS! -
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—l an< writing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my ease, About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir. —I suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
<mall bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cine forbronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Victoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“ Llenwellyn,
“ Katunga, Via
“Mr. Hearne.—
“Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of your JBronchßis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very had coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to my mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER."'
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
** Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be giad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus—as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir, »
"Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.’
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD-
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows 1 “ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have fojr years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Tears’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“ Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales."
A Five Tears’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr, W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir, —Kindly send me onp
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. I am more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, asi
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without ii
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Years’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well. —Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney."
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED).
A SEVENTEEN YEARS' CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes :—“After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883— 15 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.”
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states:—“l
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma."
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist;. Geelong, Victoria.
branch depot- Qffi ce . No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small SIZ6, 2s 6dj licirg'G, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally .
“ Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical Record.
‘“Benger’s Food*
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medical Record.
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
er s Food
Fop Infants, Invalids, and the Aged. Delicious, Nutritive, and Digestible.
Benger’s Food Is sold by Chemists, Ac., Everywhere.
Extracts from P/ivale.
Letters.
“ My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult
tn find. My wife sounds
the praise of ‘ Benger’s
Food ’ everywhere.”
“ If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.
‘ H.F.” : Isn’t it time that pictured angels
were drawn up-to-date ? Anatomically the present
floating girl laoks muscles to move her wings.
The arm is the natural wing-foundation. Wings
and arms separated are a physiological monstro-
sity. Then the wings should be four times present
size, with a proportionate muscular increase of
the shoulders. Also, the pictured angel has no
tail; even if it could start in flight it would flop
to earth like a capsized kite. This is dreadful to
think of when you want to be devout. Again,
unless it sends its clothes to the wash, a self-
respecting angel needs a beak to preen its feathers,
and claws to hold tight to the fence when the wind
blows, or how can it finish its yarn with the
cherubim ?
London Morning Post critic gathers from
Tlios. Hardy’s lamentable book of pomes that
“ poetry has been with Mr. Hardy rather an
amusement than a passion.” Which reminds one
of the fable of the bad pelting boys and the help-
less suffering frogs. It was sport for Hardy, but
agony for trie public whom he smote with, say,
‘‘ Th.e Song of the Soldiers’ Wives,” an up-to-date
inspiration of S’African interest —
And now you are nearing home again,
Dears, home again ;
No more, may be, to roam again
As in that bygone time,
Which took you far away from us
To stay from us ;
Dawn, hold not long the day from us
But quicken it to prime !
And to make the matter worse the dears are no
nearer home again than they were at the time of
the Mafeking Drunk. The Morning Post man
recognises this melancholy fact when he writes—
The series of poems ends with one on “ The Battle-god,”
which has also a note of hope :
Let men rejoice, let men deplore,
The lurid Deity of heretofore
Succumbs to one of saner nod ;
The Battle-god is god no more.
Note of hope ”is good. “ Hope ” may be oata-
jOgued in this connection as a Hardy annual.


OF
m.
■
a
s;
DdHWftUin'WtfMUlnTl
HOfr poah
fWWtIMUIf M»W **”»*'-*Mf
nMtl MH to UIW» •!•»•»
lT> to oim tM ntmunnvHl
|tV| to Hm**"* N| i* ovtncoM*
HABITUAL CONSTIPATION
MO fttt MMflul
MMk OAIM *«K» MIAOAO
MOMATIf ON THI
KIDNEYS. LIVER AND BOWELS,
m 2
m
I OAIRY •■»?*!« OOtOHI
M tub* HILL. LONDON tO-
Vmct IL iSi.
THIS AND NO OTHER
is the Original and Genuine Syrup of
Figs, now known everywhere as
CALIFORNIA
Syrup of Figs
THE DELIGHTFUL LIQUID LAXATIVE.
'T'HE pleasant method and beneficial
A effects of this well-known remedy,
manufactured by the California Fig
Syrup Company, illustrate the value of
obtaining the liquid laxative principles
of plants known to be medicinally
laxative and presenting them in the
form most refreshing to the taste and
acceptable to the system. It is the
one perfect strengthening laxative,
CLEANSING THE SYSTEM EFFECTUALLY,
DISPELLING COLDS AND HEADACHES,
PREVENTING FEVERS, OVERCOMING HABITUAL
CONSTIPATION PERMANENTLY.
Its perfect freedom from every ob-
jectionable quality and substance, and
its acting on the kidneys, liver and
bowels, gently yet promptly, without
weakening or irritating them, make it
the ideal laxative. In order to get its
beneficial effects, and to avoid imita-
tions, please remember the full name
of the Company printed on the front
of every package.
Ask foi* CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS, and look for the
Name and Trade Mark of the
CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP CO., 31 & 32 Snow Hill, London.
Australian Branch : 7 Barrack Street. Sydney.
Of all Chemists,
i ■ nv nod h:ivh gooo
All Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation tor Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. ‘ Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
m" For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington H. Soul &
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT
HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND. Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE
•t.t
Ss
m
fm
I'' I ''#
I
a
>
/T
. ‘X *s
•-/>
and so does
PEARS
A General Muster.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ SAY you know nothittg about it, and you’ll come
k good deal nearer the truth.”
u Wasn’t I here ? ”
“You Was dead drunk At Hogan’s. Didn’t see
the daylight for a month, and you know it as well
As I do.”
“ All right, then,” concluded Dick.
But old George Brown, the overseer, spoke with
authority before he left the hut. “It would be a
great deal better for yourself, Dick, if you stuck
to what you do know something about.”
Through the silence that followed the remark
came old Dad’s voice : “I raked both their graves
this morning,”
“ And I see ’em filled,” said Dick.
“You heard about it,” the cook retorted.
“ How could any man see, who was at the end of
A month’s spree and a two years’ cheque ? ”
“ The old man only died ten years ago,” said
Hick.” “ I buried him, Dad ! ”
“ What Was it all about ? ” asked the drover’s
man.
Dick began : “It was this way: Old Billy col-
lared young Billy’s gin.”
“She was a lady woman,” corrected Dad.
, “ She was all that, and young Bill was a swell.
The old man sent him to England to make him a
swell, and the young missus, she came out to
be his wife.”
“I raked her grave, too,” said Dad.
“Young Bill went away through America, but
got back time o’ the last general muster, an’ rode
up to the station unsuspected. She was there,
but old Billy was away, W hen Old Bill come back,
what he found didn’t suit him. He and young
Billy went out together, and he come back by his-
self, and, after that, he saw blue devils till he
died.”
“I reckon, then, George Brown Was right,”
said the cook.
“ Right! How ? ”
“You knows nothin’ about it. Tell us the
yarn, Dad.”
Dick cursed. Dad smoked for a while, and at
length spoke. ~
“I see her the first day she come, in the buggy,
alongside the old man. She was some kind of a
relation, and she was to marry young Billy. Her
face was the color of a ripe quondong, and when
she laughed you’d think it was a school o’ bell-
birds. And old Billy hadn’t buried the old missus
then more ’n two year. I rakes her grave reg’lar.
I was in the garden then, and the young missus,
she’d be planting half her time, vi’lets mostly.
I’ve got vi’lets on her now. Says she to me one
day : ‘ Will won’t be out for a couple o’ years,
Dad; his father’s sent him to Texas to learn cow-
boy work.’ And a day or two later: ‘ How many
acres is in the run, an’ how many sheep do it run,
an* is it all belonging to Mr. Johnston ? ’
“ Then thinks I, ‘ Young Billy would have
been better here.’ But he would have been better
away, better away.”
“ It was ter be ! ” observed the cook.
“ Yes, it was ter be, mebbe. A letter that
young Billy wrote missed, for old Billy didn’t box
his business. But, anyhow, the general muster
come on, and there was a parson at the station a
week afore, an’ stayed for a week, an’ he married
old Billy to young Billy’s girl. (You never see
a general muster, none o’ you, ’cept Dick, an’ he
was always drunk). _ Seven stations used to drive
on to Tommy’s Plain, and every squatter had his
drovers, and tailers, an’ two or three fightin’ men.
The station blacks used ter muster too, but that
year they was all scared because two lots of
buckeeners was down from the hills.’’
“ What’s buckeeners ? ” asked the drover’s man.
“ Buckeeners is wild blacks as comes down on
the station blacks. Their dart is their kidney fat.
Some says they eats it, and others that they
’noints theirselves with it. I only knows they
goes for it, an’ they were about the muster. I see
their fire one night, an’ George Brown saw them
the day before. Six of em’ and no gins. George
told King Billy at the station an’ give it out at
the muster, and we reckoned to give ’em a run by-
and-bye. The muster went on right enough.
The clear-skins was cut out and divided, and then
there was the crooked ones, the faked brands and
the doubtfuls. The worst fightin’ was always
about them. There had been a dozen sets-to may-
be, and both Billy’s fightin’ men was dog-tired,
when a fat worker was run out. I knowed him
for one of ours that got away a year before, but
McLintock’s men swore to their brand. I was
pulling off my shirt when somebody sees dust
down the river. Our station was up-river. We
waits, till who rides up but young Billy. An’ he
was a toff. Paddy Neylor was drivin’ him up
head of the mail. When old Billy spotted him I
knowed things was crooked. Stead o’ lighting up
his face turned dark as thunder. But the fight
was off anyhow, and, when young Billy come
down among us shakin’ hands here and there,
they all got good-humored about the cattle, and
Tom Ryan and I, who was to a’ fought, drunk a
bottle together by the fire.
“ Towards morning I got up and put the logs
together, then took a turn out to the edge of the
timber to listen for the horses’ bells. It was over
50 mile to our home-station, and we were goin’ to
make an early start. I was lookin’ out when day
would break, and along comes young Billy.
“‘Martin,’ says he, ‘I come on you sudden
like.’
“ ‘ You did ! ’ says I.
“ ‘The governor didn’t expect me for a year or
two yet,’ he goes on, ‘but I got full of Texas.’
And then he begins to ask about the young
missus. Was she well, an’ was she light-hearted,
and was she lookin’ out for him ? I felt scared
while he talked, for I could feel things crooked ;
but, ‘ fresh as river water,’ says I, ‘an’ singin’ like
a magpie, and not expectin’ a sight of you for a
year to come.’
“ ‘ Gad, she will be surprised, ’ he says, and
then, ‘ Martin, d’ye think you could get hold of a
horse without runnin’ up the lot ? ’ I knew what
he meant. In less than half-an-hour I had two
horses in and was fixin’ one when out of the
tent comes old Billy, cussin’ as he comes.
“Young Billy was riggin’hisself out back o’
the buggy, an’ I kept away, for there was blood
behind the old man’s eye. Soon the son showed
up: ‘What the hell do you want to sneak out
o’the camp this fashion for?’ says the old man,
and young Billy pulls off his hat polite as a prince,
and, says he: '
“ ‘ I wanted to give ’em a surprise at the home-
station.’
“‘Let your surprise wait, then,’ said the old
man ; ‘ you gave us enough o’ that yesterday.’
“ Young Billy said no word, but went across to
the fern, an’ I hitched up the hosses.
“ We got away an hour after daybreak, the boss
drivin’ the buggy, and I bringing along the stock
horse, the best bit o’ stuff on the river. Young Billy
was ridin’ a young thing and showin’ off cowboy
tricks as we went along. It might have been
eleven When We camped a spell, ahd just as the
pots was boilin’ young Billy Whips acrbss a stock-
horse and away. * Sti long, dad, ’ says he; 111
tell ’em you’ll be in by sundown. ’
“He made for the outside track —that was ten
mile shorter than ours, if you kept it.
“Old Billy gets up and lets out a roar, then
walks up and down a spell, and in the end turns
round to us. * That damned young fool will get
bushed and lost. The thing he’s ridin’ was bred
100 miles down the river and knows no more o
the river than he does. Put my saddle on Warri-
gal! I’ll follow him, an’ you can take the buggy
“ Two minutes after he was up, and the look on
his face I’ll never forget. I saw another man
look the same once. That was Morgan at Brown s
Plains when he rode back with the boy he’d shot
across his saddle. I was there.”
“Damn Morgan!” said the drovers man;
“ What happened ? ”
“We got along to the station all right, and the
young missus is walking up and down the veran-
dah. She calls to me as I goes towards the gar-
den, and asks for the boss. Then I had to do my
pitch, and as soon as young Billy comes into it
she flings up her arms with a screech.. ‘An
they’ve gone together? You fools, you idiots!
she says. Maybe I looked fool and idiot enough,
for it knocked me stiff. But, all of a sudden, I
sights the wedding-ring on her finger, and then
remembers old Billy’s look. Nothin’ would do
her but all hands out and search. George Brown,
he was a young fellow then, tried to talk sense,
but she hunted him —hunted us all till we went
out across the house paddock. Then, says George
Brown, ‘ We may as well camp till he comes in,
or she comes out of her tantrums.’
“We watched the track till sundown, and then
George begun to get uneasy. ‘ The young fellow
may have got mixed up with the lignum and that
mallee patch,’ said he. ‘You go back to the
station, Martin ; we’ll spread out and ride on a
bit.’ ,
“ I went back, and she lashed out at me with
her tongue ; and night come, and she. lit all the
lamps and ramped up and down outside. But,
whenever one of the hands come in, she’d rush to
her own room an’ lock the door, and sing out to
the girls to ask who it was.
“ They all come in one by one, George Brown
last. He was goin’ up to her when he heard the
rattle of hoofs along the track, and up rides the
boss without his hat or whip, and the mare spurred
from girth to flank.
“‘Has he come in?’ he sings out, and we all
starts. He goes right inside, and George Brown
follows. And when George comes out there’s a
queer look on him. He tells us the boss never got
up with his son an’ lost the tracks about dark.
Then, as he was headin’ for home, he struck the
buckeening blacks, an’ his horse bolted and carried
him to the devil.
“All hands turned out with guns and whips.
We were goin’ to light fires right across to the
river to scare the blacks and attract young
Billy.
“Young Billy, aye! ’Twas three days before
we found him, head down in the lignum with his
skull smashed.
“ The buckeeners,” said the drover’s man.
“So you says, and so George Brown says, and
so some folk on the river said,” answered old Dad,
solemnly.
“ What should they say, anyhow ? ”
“Just so, what else? What did she say when
she saw old Billy’s face as he came in? For a
week after George Brown and he watched her;
wouldn’t let the < women-folk come near her for
fear they’d hear" her raving. And what did he
say, year after year, half in the horrors and half
out ? And why did they send t’other boy away to
school an’ to college an’ never let him anigh the
station for 10 years ? And why did she take to
drink and run hini neck and neck for the grave in
the garden? And why is it George Brown’s boss
as long as he lives ? I seen her face when I told her
the boy was comin,’ and his’n when he went on to
his tracks, and I huried him and her, and rakes
the graves of all of ’em regular.”
According to Colonel Lyster, of the
“ Federal ” contingent, he can’t understand why
that advance-pay grievance should have such
prominence. “Officers,” he says, “are supposed
to look after the men’s interests, and settle any
differences that may arise.” Is that all Col. Lyster
knows ? Officers are bound to forward any com-
plaints that may be made, even against them-
selves. There are questions that no regimental
officer can settle, and when one of them falls over
a snag of that sort, he is apt to get angry and run
in the man who persists in laying it in his way.
Whatever the officer is “ supposed ” to do, the
contingenter doesn’t trust him, and he is probably
right. These officers have been chosen by the
Barton Government to stave off troublesome
questions till the men are safely landed in S’Africa.
What happens afterwards doesn’t matter.
As for the alleged “mistake” in the matter of
the pay, it’s the sort of mistake that mean and
shuffling Australian Governments generally do
make in dealing with their contingents. The
British regulation applies to this contingent, but
the Barton crowd thought fit to cut down the
advance from 30 days’ to 10 days’ pay. All
very well to vapour at “patriotic” meetings
about the “empire,” but it would be more pat-
riotic to abstain from diddling the empire’s soldiers
out of their wages.
A church with as interesting a history as
that of the Hawkesbury Ebenezer, pilgrimmed to
the other day, is the iron erection for many years
described as old St. Stephen’s, Sydney. It has
now trekked to Rookwood Asylum, where it is the
central figure in the city of 1100 decayed old men.
It was designed early in the last century by the
followers of Knox and co. in Scotland, and
there was keen competition as to its carriage to
N.S.W. The job was finally divided among
several vessels. The church was brought out
as ballast—a bit of a church being considered
in these days rather a lucky thing to have on
board. Macquarie-st. knew it for many years
both as a place of worship and also as the lending
branch of the State Library. The overflow from
St. James’s used to make for it on Sabbath morn-
ings, and squash the sect to which it properly
belonged up against the wall. So a resolution
was passed that “this kirk was brought to the
colony for the sole use of United Presbyterians,
at much expense and considerable inconvenience,
and it is requested that they will assemble before
11 o’clock, when the church will be thrown open
to the public.” This was in the days when one
could throw a stone without hitting a church at
every street-corner. St. Stephen’s now acts as
church and library to the derelict veterans. All
denominations are allowed to use it in turn, and
the echo of “ Ave Maria” chases the echo of
the “ Old Hundredth ” round the walls, and would
doubtless disparage the same severely, if it could
only catch up. And during the week the toothless
veteran returns “ Tom Jones ” and vainly applies
for “ Maria Monk,” and old United Presbyterian
ghosts and memories groan bitterly at the dese-
cration.


053
m
V,
A
A'
V
3
■H.#
r
frt
fW
MANY WITNESSES!
Sydney People Testify.
The Evidence of Friends and Neighbors.
The testimony of People you know is the Proof
of Merit which backs every box of
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS.
One Witness says—
“/ had a had hack, sharp
shooting pains. It ached all
day and night. I was weary
and tired ; felt miserable
all the time. I learned the
cause and got the cure
— Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills.”
A Never Failing
Remedy for every
ill common to the
KIDNEYS. Don’t
take our word for
it; read these state-
ments.
Another Witness says—
“ I had urinary trouble, suf-
fered constant annoyance ; dis-
turbed my night’s rest. Fre-
quent urinary discharges;
stinging sensation in passing.
Diabetes set in : knew it must
be stopped, and stopped it with
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.”
SYDNEY EVIDENCE.
SURRY HILLS.
Mr. Jos. Grieve, Wood and Coal Merchant, 18
Albion-street, Surry Hills, states : —“ For the past
five or six years I suffered from kidney disorder.
The symptoms were severe backache and irregu-
larity of the secretions of the kidneys. The
pain had such complete mastery over me that at
times I could not rise from my bed. I went to
doctors to see what they could do for me, but
gained no benefit from them. I tried medicines
with no better results. One day, I saw an adver-
tisement regarding a remedy for kidney trouble,
and I visited Newman’s Pharmacy, in King-street,
and procured a box of these pills—Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills. 1 felt relief right from the
first dose. My pain gradually grew less, and
finally disappeared, as did the kidney disorder.”
This is Mr. Grieve’s testimony given 12 months
later: —“Twelve months ago I was cured by
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. lam still a
believer in these pills, having never had a return
of my complaint since. I had been a terrible
sufferer with the kidneys, and nothing ever gave
me relief but Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. If I
hear anybody complaining of a bad back I always
tell them of the medicine which cured me.”
BALMAIN
Mr. E. Hansen, 41 Rosser-street, Balmain, says:
“For years I had a backache which made me
helpless and a burden to myself. I also had my
right arm useless, and could not do any work. I
had to use my left arm to feed myself. I was
unable to earn my own living. I tried a lot of
medicines, and went to doctors and hospitals. I
would get slight relief, and then I’d get as bad as
ever again. I took fourteen boxes of one largely-
advertised remedy, but when I started work one
day’s labor made me as bad as ever again. Hun-
dreds in Balmain know of my case, and any of
them will tell you what Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills have done for me. I got a box more than
twelve months ago, and when I had taken half a
box of these pills I felt so well that I could start
work. But knowing how I had been treated by
other remedies I finished the box to make sure,
and then I began work and have worked ever
since. My right arm is as strong and as well as
my left, and all my pains have gone. I’ve not
taken a pill since because I’ve not needed one.
They acted in a most magical way, as men in the
will tell you.”
WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
Mr. Charles Alexander, 143 Rilev-street, Wool-
loomooloo, this city, says:—“While working I
am obliged to lift heavy articles, and this, I be-
lieve, affected my kidneys, as about two years ago
I began to feel severe pains in my back. Many
widely advertised medicines were tried without
gaining any advantage. An attack of influenza
left my kidneys in such a state that I could
scarcely bear up against the pains. A doctor
treated me for Bright’s Disease. I could not turn
in bed, and my back felt as if someone were trying
to cut out the backbone. 1 was wholly confined
to my bed when a friend came to see me, and re-
marked that Doan’s Bachache Kidney Pills had
relieved him wonderfully. So some' were ob-
tained for me at Newman’s Pharmacy in King-
street, which entirely cured me.”
Ihe above is what Mr. Alexander said one year
ago. He repeats his testimony to-day, and says:
“Since I gave the above testimony 12 months ago
I have had no reason to change my opinion. I
had tried medicines which have been extensively
advertised, and also drank stuff prescribed by
doctors, but I would never fall back on any of
them, but Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills were
cheap at 10 times the price. Some of the kidney
medicines X have taken were like swallowing
knives to out away the disease, but Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pilla were mild, and thoroughly
effective.”
Get what you ask for. Get
DOAN’S. Don’t accept some-
thing just as good. All Chemists
sell DOAN’S Backache Kidney
Pills and will give you what
you call for. Some may
endeavor to substitute an article
they make more profit on.
Insist on getting the genuine
and save money and misery.
Price 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes
15s. 3d.) or will he posted on
receipt of price by
Foster McClellan Co.,
76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Dawnward?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
That reddish veil which o’er the face
Of night-hag East is drawn—
Flames new Disaster for the race,
Or can it be the dawn ?
That rumbling sound horizonward 1
What destinies are there ?
Do organed Hopes triumphant chord,
Or thunders roar ‘ ‘ Despair ” ?
What gifts ate those the clouds release
As far ahead they scud ?
Are they the genial rains of Peace*
Or deluges bf blobd ?
tlur niotley masses struggle slow
’Mid wilderness, through sands;
t)ur flags with fetish watchwords glow
Abdve the gloomy bands.
Three watchwords ! Will they glorify*
Or weave us fates mbre stark ?
Lead dawn Ward from this lowering sky*
Or downward to the dark ?
Will “Freedom ” over Athens’ scrolls
Our greater glory carve ?
Or prove mere choice to sell our souls
To Mammon or—to starve ?
Content with Freedom’s forms, will wa
Real tyranny caress,
Through sybaritic apathy,
Or mad forgetfulness ?
“ Equality ! ” Will each a king
Become, a seer, a sage ?
Or will it ruthless all men fling
In cosmic helotage ?
Will crucibles, wherein, tho’ great
With primal vice, we pour
Equalities, precipitate
Napoleons—as before?
While heedless on our masses move,
Their sad-eyed mystics see
On rushing Cloudland’s stage above
Dark hints of what may be.
Palladium and Shibboleth
Pose on each misty dome :
Red Crisis’ tableaux blotch with death
Smug Order’s monochrome.
Race-ogres here on vulture-cloud,
And there race-fathers hie;
And Then and Now and Will-Bc crowd
The pantomimic sky.
Prophetic ’mid the whirlwind flow
These cryptic figures steal:
Are they to be for further woe,
Or may they be for weal ?
V.
Will turbaned Shem, revived, through sweet
White women filtered long,
With sober scowl triumphant meet
The drunken Western throng ?
Will Ham, acquit of servile strain,
Of art and craft compact,
A loathing Europe’s pallor stain—
Democracy in fact ?
Will Japhet still his brothers lead
Unto the shambled tryst,
With tentacles of trading greed
And drivel of his Christ ?
Will Gog, awake, his Huns outpour
At Empire-breaking time,
To sluice aWay our fariie and lore;
Our features and —but crime ?
Scrolls, written “ Debt,” and “Wanton Wat,’*
And “ Sterile Lbve,” flare high ;
Are these bur “ Mene ! Mene ! ” or
Illusions bf the sky ?
“ Majority ! ” Divorced from wise;
Sad Conscience, will he prowl
Through tender, human heresies
With Torquemadan scowl ?
And “ Comfort! ” Will her siren song
To narcotising shades
Seduce our veterans, while Wrong
Our weaker frontiers raids ?
Will “ Sport ” educe a virile pith,
Our pulses teach to throb ?
Or weary earth re-saddle with
A Nika-riot mob ?
Will centre-seeking “Culture” hold
Tangential Passion’s bolt ?
Yield orbits of an Age of Gold,
Or comets of Revolt ?
Yet, foodless oft and homeless, we,
Not hopeless, loveless, plod—
Whither ? To Failure’s midnight sea?
Or dawnward ? Ay, to God ?
DANTON.
A M.L. paper gently chides its ignorant
contemporary for marrying (by cable) a Chinese
General’s daughter to the Chinese province of
Yangtse, which the hidebound one mistook for a
man, and converting the German Emperor’s steam
yacht Hohenzollern into a prince who was to
accompany his brother to America. The other
rag gets back by saying it never called ChaUncey
Depew a Frenchman, anyway.
Sergeant-Major Heffernan, who has just
returned from the Transvaal, in an interview
published in Sydney Telegraph, explains the
cattle captures in South Africa thus “ They
are taker? me day and probably lost the next
night, an 1 1; m recaptured again, this interesting
proceed, lg continuing indefinitely.” Does the
same thing happen with the prisoners, and with
the dead or alleged dead ?
A “Star” Performance.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We had ceased to wonder how Calligan became
possessed of so many “ flyers,” but when Star
beat Concertina for the Stony Crossing Bridle by
about four lengths, our curiosity revived. He was
£\ good sort, though, in a way, was the proprietor
of the Quart Pot Arms, for he used to shout for
all hands after every race he won. Then he would
drink himself hopeless for two or three weeks on
end.
His daughter, Tom M'Dermid’s sweetheart.
Would at these times Clear out, and leave him to
the tender mercies of the big black-gin cook. She
bated racing, and used to remonstrate tearfully
With Calligan every time a badly-written and
much-interlined programme was tacked up in the
bar. Mrs. Calligan had died years before.
After the Bridle was won, and the shouting was
bver, the horse rubbed down and put away, Miss
Calligan went to her father and said : “Dad, I’m
going.” Old Dan stared at her.
“ Goin’ where ? ” he asked, thickly.
“I’m going over to Mrs. M'Dermid’s,” said
Sara; “an’ —an’ I’m going to marry Tom, Whether
you like it or riot! ”
“ You’re what? You're what ?” be yelled,
getting up from the gin-case bn which he had
been sitting. “D’ yer mean t’say yer gdiri’ tb
marry that cow ? ”
“ I do,” said Sara, tossing her head ; “ and he’s
not a cow.” With that she slammed tbe side-door
and galloped across to Mrs. Mac’s with her bundle
under one arm.
m * • »
Galligan hated Tom because Tom’s father had
once been instrumental in getting him (Calligan)
arrested for illegally branding; and although
he was let off with a caution, he never re-
garded the whole M ‘Dermid family with anything
but the deepest hatred. This was a pity, because
Tom was a real good fellow. As a matter of fact,
Star rightly belonged to him. He missed him
one day, and, although he hunted through all the
runs within thirty miles or so, failed to find him.
Calligan had “planted” him, and, being a fair
bush “vet,” had painted out two of the three
white feet; and only a star remained of what had
been a crooked blaze. Tom’s brand was an easy
one to fake, and in less than a month the colt was
broken in.
That was how Calligan came to win the Bridle.
• • • •
It was the day of the annual Stony Crossing
races. Star was favorite for the “big” money
(£lO, and a pair of spurs), though Tom M'Dermid’s
mare was backed considerably. Calligan was
anxious. From time to time he cast his eye
heavenwards, muttering imprecations against
Heaven for banking up black clouds on a race day.
The bell rang, and the horses went to the post. A
rain-drop plashed on Calligan’s hand. He cursed
audibly.
* * * *
“ They’re off ! ” The rain drops quickened.
The distance was a mile and a half. As they
thundered past the “ stand ” for the first time, the
rain pelted down in earnest. “Look at Dan!”
said somebody. Calligan was jumping on his
hat, and cursing like a madman. They thought
it was the rum.
Half a mile from home Star was leading. They
knew it was Star by the way the nigger on him
eat. The pace was slow, for the ground was now
a quagmire. When they wheeled round the
dump a quarter-mile from the tree which did
duty as a winning-post, most of the spectators
were mystified and asked unanimously :
“What bald-faced horse is in the lead, any-
how ? ” Nobody seemed to know, as no bald-faced
horse had started. But two at least knew—Calli-
gan and Tom, and both were missing. The bald-
faced horse won, and he had Star’s jockey on.
That much the crowd could see as the nags were
flogged past the post, covered with slush. Star
went fully 150 yards further than the rest before
he pulled up. When he did, the black boy on him
was surprised to find Calligan alongside, glaring
like a fiend. “ Don’t weigh in, ”he said hurriedly ;
“ cut straight home now, or I’ll kill yer ! Quick ! ”
and he raised his heavy crop.
The boy rode off swiftly through the bushes.
A good many of the young men there had
known Star before he was stolen, and Calligan
knew it. He cantered up to the excited crowd,
and called out—“ It’s orright, boys. I’ve sent the
’orse ’ome. There’s a bit of a mistake. Give the
prize to Mr. M'Dermid’s mare. She won it right
enough.”
“ Where’s Star ? ” asked someone.
A shout of laughter drowned his reply as he
turned his horse’s head for his pub. Then a few
fights resulted over the beta—and various other
things.
Tom Was Walking Star about when Calligan
to'de up, his face very white. “G’day, Tom,” he
said, awkwardly ; then, sidling up to’ the young
man, half-Whispered; “ Are yet gain’ ter say
anythin’, Tom?”
Tom stopped. “No,” he laughed.
Old Dan mopped his brow, cleared his throat,
and gurgled, “Gi’me yer hand, me boy. Wud
yer like Sara straight-away, Tom, with a bit of an
interest in the pub, eh, me boy ? ”
“My oath, Mr. Calligan,” said Tom. They
shook hands heartily. Then there was a short
silence. Mr. Calligan broke it by remarking,
awkwardly, “S’pose yer’ll ride the’orse back to
your place. What’ll yer ’ave t’ drink ? ”
S. C. O. JESSOP.
“Jimpan”: Saw this legend painted on
the back gate of a pretty Sydney suburban home:
No empty bottles for sale here. We gave up drinking
on New Year’s Day.
Underneath some disappointed bottle-collector
had scribbled— “ My oath !—about time you did,
too ! ”
Pretty well every local or other Govern-
ment that gives away any “ rights ” sooner or
later has trouble with the concessionaires—mostly
sooner. Bendigo (Vic.) is the. latest instance.
Bendigo and Eaglehawk, whose two-score coun-
cillors found themselves incompetent to run about
four miles of tramway and electrically light their
city, lately < decided to hand the concession over to
the Victorian Electric Supply Co., apparently a
London syndicate. The work proceeded for about
a week when the syndicate discovered that a single
track was good enough for Bendigo; and ‘ it
didn’t want too large a capitalisation at the
outset”; and if the councils didn’t agree there
would be a deadlock. The councils had to agree.
That’s only the start. The Bulletin’s prophetic
eye sees more requests in the near future.


latest isro‘\rEX J Tir
ħ
TRADE
MARK.
*
‘Graciosa’
PATENTED. REGISTERED.
The most Comfortable and Durable of Corsets.
Cannot Break at the Waist Line!
WHAT THE WEARERS SAY OF THEM—
Lady W. writes:—“The ‘GRACIOSA’ Corset is simply perfect in shape,
adapting itself to the body in any position.”
Lady S. writes “I find your ‘ GRACIOSA ’ Corset the most comfortable I have
ever worn, and a periect fit.”
Lady M. writes :—“Your * GRACIOSA ’ Corset is the very perfection of fit, the
very thing I have been wishing for, as there is perfect freedom of movement
of the body. lam quite delighted with it.”
Lady* B. writes :—“ Your ‘GRACIOSA’ Corset is a splendid fit, and the most
comfortable corset I have ever worn.”
P.R. writes :—“ Our assistant likes the ‘ GRACIOSA ’ Corset very much, and
thinks they will be a great success, and have a large sale. We shall be very
pleased to give an order as soon as they are ready for delivery.”
W. T. writes “ Your ‘ GRACIOSA ’ Corset gives great satisfaction.”
SOLD BY ALL FIRST-CLASS DRAPERS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
W. S. THOMSON & CO., Ltd., London, Manufacturers,
Makers of t e World-Renowned “Glove-Fittingr” Corsets.
G. F. Griffiths, Sole Agent for Australasia, Watsons Chambers, Melbourne.
12 PRIZE MEDALS .
y
Registered
by the
Medical
Board
of N.S.W.
HAVING had 30 years’ experience in all parts of the
world, and also having lately made an extended trip
through Europe and America, he is in a position to
treat every case submitted to him according to the
methods of the most recent and eminent Specialists.
Every Case Treated on its own Merits.
Sufferers at a distance, unable to describe their cases to
their own satisfaction, should write for Dr. Watson’s
“ Guide to Diagnosis B,”
POST I'REP, Is.,
which will enable them to give exactand full particulars, so as
toenable him to report fully 4,s to the- disease and its radical
and rational method of treatment.
NVIOISAHd
h
( Personally,
or by letter).
The publication of crowds of symptoms, testimonials and
puffs of one’s skill and attainments savours too much of self-
praise; so the public should look with a doubtful eye upon all
those who “doth protest too much.”
Dr. Watson does not pretend to say that “ One Pound is
sufficient to send” as stated in certain advertisements, for he
considers that the public are quite satisfied to pay a fair price
for fair and legitimate treatment.
ĥ
137 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
Please mention this Paper when writing-
•'//if
san mm::.
■
IQ
r the Com
PRICE, 6d.; Posted, Bd.
• 'i, • . v V"*‘
nwealth
WORLD'S BEST.
C. L HAUTHAWAY & SO]
PEERLESS GLOSS
is an oil dressing which so softens the leather that
smaller sized shoes can be worn with perfect comfort.
“ Peerless Gloss ” is the great dressing triumph of the
world, as it imparts a brilliant and permanent polish to
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S
shoes that outrivals all other dressings, and yet it does not
contain anything injurious to the leather. Beware of
imitations. Demand 'Hauthaway’s “Peerless Gloss,” and
take no substitute. For sale nearly everywhere. Made
only byC. D. Hauthaway & Sons, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
¥5
m
dr.
ii
y A
*A.<- * ■■'V>
orJ7■•■ * :.. -g jr ■»
V jb?_
■ - .ir.'
7 " ' r>
Cw
u i-l'u
ZC-'—ZjT.' >
Ax,-
rMm
■
IffeSS
ħ
WORTH
fl
GUINEA
“ON OUR SLECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 6s. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
STRENGTH
the
and
"THE MEDICAL MONTHLY,” August, 1893, says : "The firm of Arthur Hale
and Son, of 105 Regent Street, London, W., has distinguished itself in the develop-
ment of electrical science as a medical agent. By an entirely new method of applica-
tion they have succeeded in producing an Electric Body' Belt, which for comfort,
efficacy, and genuineness, is unquestionably far superior to any previous invention.”
WE INVITE ALL intending purchasers of our IMPROVED and
PATENTED ELECTRO-GALVANIC BELTS and APPLIANCES
to a FAIR TRIAL and TEST before payment. Call upon us if possible.
If it is not convenient for you to call at our offices, request a friend or an
acquaintance in this city, or one coming from your own town, to do so for
you. We will first show you that our IMPROVED and PATENTED
ELECTRO-GALVANIC BELTS and APPLIANCES are genuine pro-
ducers of a continuous GALVANIC CURRENT by a MOST CRITICAL
TEST with the GALVANOMETER. And if you or your representative
cannot feel the ELECTRIC CURRENT from the GALVANIC
CHAINS in our ELECTRIC BELTS and APPLIANCES, we are will-
ing to place £lO 10s. to the credit of each of any two Charities you may
mention, either in this city or your own town or city.
We most cordially and respectfully invite any PHYSICIAN or
ELECTRICIAN to "inspect our IMPROVED and PATENTED
ELECTRO-GALVANIC BELTS and APPLIANCES, which we are
now offering for sale to the AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC.
■a?
m
m
Hale & Son’s Improved and Patented Electro-Galvanic Belts and Appliances are
Nature’s Chief Restorers. Our Plain Belt, our Special Belt and Suspensor for Gentlemen,
and our Abdominal Belt for ladies are guaranteed to be the most Scientific and Genuine
Electric Appliances yet produced. They will speedily relieve and Cure Nervous Exhaus-
tion, Rheumatism, Pain and Weakness in the Back, impart tone and vifror to the whole nervous
system, and make life a pleasure. We invite all sufferers, no matter what the disease or ailment may be,
to call or send for our Free Book, entitled, “Modern Treatment of Disease by Electricity.”
Consultation Free.
HAIiE & SON, Medical Galvanists,
105 Regent St., London, W., and 44 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
Please mention this paper.
IRISH MOSS
FOR
-The besf remedy-
INFLUENZA, *
COUGHS,
COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA
Ask for Bonn 1 ng ton’s
and see that/you get it .


Asbestos Boiler Covering
. . . Saves 25 Pee Cent, in Fuel , . .
PACKED WET, Ready for Use, in 3cwt. Casks, 7/-, 8/-, 9/- cwt.
PACKED DRY, in Bags, each lcwt., 12/-, 14/-; 16/- cwt.
Estimates given for Covering Boilers and
Steam Pipes.
OUR ASBESTOS BOILER COVER
Saves 25 per cent, in Fuel,
PERDRIAU and COMPANY,
Telephone, — 418^^7! —268-270 George Street, Sydney
SIMPSON BROTHERS
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
WH
pi
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
For all Services kept in Stock.
Send for Catalogue.
h
ĥ
■W. O. ZESIiIDIE&IIDGKE & CO..
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORE STREET, SYDNEY
(opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
ħ
Fo
AUSTRALIA
BY
mn
BENNIE, TEARE & CO.,
\
%
<p
PERTH
and
COOLGARDIE
STOCKS CARRIED.
SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE.
S. FREEMAN SONS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S
FREEMAN’S
BAKING
PRIZE
POWDER.
h
ĥ
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigrestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS'
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
Sold Throughout the World.
N.B.-ASK FOR DIN NE FORD’S MAGNESIA.
ħ
h
S _ ST3DITE _ 2‘.
Manufacturers and Importers of
Mining* Machinery, Engines and Boilers,
... Agents for . . .
The* New Ingersoll’ Drill.
Universally pronounced to be tbe Lightest and Most Efficient
Drill in the market. In a recent trial at Charters Towers it easily
-—i. Defeated All Competitors
Ingersoll-Sergeant
Rock Drills
AND
Air Compressors
hold the highest average
records throughout the
world. They have met
and defeated in fair com-
petition every machine
brought against them,
and have never failed to
sustain their reputation
for doing the most work
at the ieast expense.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at —
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfleld Parade
ST. KILDA.
mHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
J-hourhy tram. Billiards, etc.
H. P. SREEOity S CO.
General Machinery Merchants,
Sydney & Melbourne.
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
BLAKE STEAM PUMP.
Best Pump In the Market for
Boiler-Feeding'; Irrigating,
Mining,
Fire and Marine Purposes.
SINGLE AND DUPLEX.
ALL SIZES, up to 50,000 gallons, Imp.,
per hour, in Stock.
for Particulars and Prices.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER
THE ONLY WAY
TO BE CURED of Weakening and Debilitating Diseases
is to obtain the PROPER REMEDIES. We have the
REMEDY that will CURE YOU. So CONFIDENT are
we of this, that we will send a trial course FREE OF
CHARGE and abide by the result. Send your symptoms
and prove our statement. Address— Botanic Institute,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
v-' i:
of Lime .
The Only
Food
containing
For INFANTS and
I
INVALIDS.
AN ESSENTIAL REQUISITE IN THIS COUNTRY
The Plica [ubricant Jo., South Shields, Eng.
Lubricants and Packings for all purposes. Patent Mica Grease saves 90% in cost of lubrication, and keeps
bearings perfectly cool. Patent Mica Packings last twice as long as ordinary, and are 25% lighter. They do
not score the rods, but put a mica surface on them, similar in appearance to electro-plate.
Sole Agent for Australasia : R. A. HERVEY. Dep&t, 171 Clarenoe-st., Sydney, A.S. TP
DON’T SHOUT.
I hear you. I can hear now as well as anybody.
How ? Oh, something new ; I have been using a pair
of Electricons.
they are entirely different to any other device.
Mr. W. R. Russell, 181 Brougham-street, Sydney, says :
“ A great number have noticed the improvement in my
hearing, and I may say that I hear plainer now than I
have for years. I have had better success with the
Electricons than any other of the many things I have
tried. The noises in the head have not troubled me since
wearing the appliances, and I have much to be thankful
to you for.”
Our Booklet, all about the ELECTRICONS for the cure
of DEAFNESS and HEAD NOISES, sent free, sealed.
Address—
L. R- VERKTOMT CO.,
60-64 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
■gJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF lor
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week
