

McE WAN’S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY. IRROT’S CHAMPAGNE.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
B. 6. WATKINS «&£ CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOB—
Mining* and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
McLAREN’S Compound
Traction Steam Engine.
A A *
“flodge” Standard
Iflood Split Pulleys
All Sizes kept in Stock.
SOLE AGENTS:
H. 6UTNRIP6C Ltd.,
71 Clarence St., Sydney.
SEND FOR CATALOG.-*®
A Policy for the Commonwealth
Being a reprint of a large number of articles from
The Bulletin, in which this paper has attempted to
outline a solvent, honest and democratic policy
for Federated Australia.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° H Pi , t SYDNEY.
Bole Agents for <l. & H. MCLAREN, Leeds, England, Makers of Steam Ploughing Taokle, Traction Engines for Haulage, General and Special Work.
We Stock and have to arrive McLaren’s Compound Traction Engines; RUSTON’S Portable Horizontal and Vertical Steam Engines;
BROADBENT’S Hydro Extractors; KIRCHNER’S Saw Mill and Wood-Working Machinery.
COMPOUND TRACTION STEAM ENGINES.--^*
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831.
WHISKY.
HELIDON SPA.
A PERFECT TABLE WATER.
TOOT'S & 00. Ltd., Sydney.
pi
HOBART.
Hadley’s Orient Hotel.
Henry Skinner,
01arendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 10hS.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies: and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Bails
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
anquets and
inner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
RESERVE EXTRA. RESERVE SPECIAL. RESERVE EXTRA SPECIAL. SUPREME
SANDEMAN’S AUSTRALIAN WINES.
241 PITT STREET, SYDKrEY. .
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and' Queensland.
PRICES PER FOOT OF SINGLE AND DOUBLE
BELTING :
2 2} 3 3£ 4 5 6 8 10 12 inch.
~/7 -/9 ~/10i 1/- 1/2 1/6 IAI 2/8 3/4 4/-
1/2 1/4 1/7 IAO 2/2 2/11 3/5 4/5 5/7 6/9
Agents in every State.
Made by
J, C. LUDOWICI & SOM, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Eight Different Articles,
comprising Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Casket (a good
trick), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Com
and Card Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The W izard
Pish (gives definition of your character), That Wonderful
Cinematograph or Book of Living Pictures, Mafeking
Grub (or nerve-strengthener), That side-splitting Look
and Laugh Glass, and, last of all, The Spider and the Fly
(an ingenious mechanical toy). Instructions enclosed.
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
710 George-street, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON. Manager.
KIRIN
ER
-
• V :V,' * ; V
*
iZ.rl
THE THREE B’s
F }
ARE HUMMING.
EMPIRE HOTEL,
y
IVLOST CEUTRALLY SITUATED.
OTARD-DUPUY
E'tbd. 1795. 25 Years BRANDY.
*7
PROOF
USE
AINOAS ‘"IS HOna 01
: dO'iffo V m H
THE SPIRIT OF THE TIMES.
ONE COMMONWEALTH ONE STIMULANT—
ANG BRANDY
'
ADELAIDE
WINES.
Natures Most
Pleasing Restorative
From the Oldest Vineyards
IN
South Australia.
D? Andrew Wilson F. R.S.E*
Author of” Health Notes*
London.
S AYS
PENFOLD’S WINES
Arethe Safest Stimulant"
SYDNEY CELLARS
84 Pitt Street.
The Bulletin
Vol. 23.—N0. 1143 ]
[Saturday, January 11, 1902.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


♦Sample reports : “ Gosford.—Credit balance, £84 ;
profit on billiards, £38. Mehangle.—The popularity of
the billiard table for the use of members has been so
great during the past year that it has paid for itself, and
has greatly augmented the funds of the institution.
Parramatta.—850 members. New billiard room recently
opened caused a large accession of members." &c.
the liUITCrS, the THROAT, the VOI<
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
o
A- The Larynx, or organ at
voice.
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
0. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
JD. A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG,
and
Invaluable to
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
Contain NO cocaine or other poisonous drug
cnin RY ALL CHEMISTS, In Tins, 1s 6d; from the Proprietor, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland—]
80 free on receipt of stamps. Sydney Depot: 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE, and FELTON, GRIMWADE & '
Melbourne, Agents.
THE BED PAGE.
The Czar of Customs.
I COMMONWEALTH legislation is always
] subject to amendment; and there are two
k / points (among others) in which the
Customs Act of 1901 should be amended
! soon as possible. The first is (c) of clause
i, which includes among prohibited imports
blasphemous indecent or obscene works or
-tides.” The word “blasphemous,” at least,
xould be struck out. It is practically
leaningless, except as a tool for the use of
;norance or bigotry. In Ingersoll’s phrase,
' ‘ blasphemy ’ is what a last year’s leaf says to
iis year’s bud: it marks the point where argu-
lent stops and slander begins.” The blasphemy
E one generation may be the faith of the next;
xe blasphemy of one country the religion of
nother country. It is an offence against liberty to
rohibit the importation of books, for example, on
ne ground that their contents are “ blasphemous.”
Vbo, in the progress of thought, in the continual
nlightenment of the human race, can arrogate the
ight to put a barrier to what shall honestly be
written ?
But the Australian Czar of Customs arrogates
he right. Upon his officials, in the first
nstanee, devolves the duty to raise the “blas-
,hemy ’’ ban. And what follows when a
Customs officer classes books as “blasphemous”
>r “ indecent ” ? By clause 229 ( b) they are
‘forfeited”; and by clause 208 “all forfeited
hips and goods shall be disposed of or destroyed
n such manner as may be prescribed or as the
Domptroller may direct.” Suppose, for example,
t gross of Strauss’s Das Leben Jesu are sent to
Australia. By clause 52 the Czar of Customs may
rank them as “prohibited imports”; by clause
329 he may forfeit them ; and by clause 208 he
nay forthwith burn them. If the owner appeals
so the High Court he may get redress ; though
she Customs Act says nothing of ways and means
ff obtaining redress in such a case. But in prac-
tice there is no redress ; for no person, unless for
the sake of the principle, could afford to take
action. 1
In the ease of a rare book, the matter is worse;
for the Czar of Customs can practically destroy
all evidence against himself.
It is not to the point to argue that “we are
quite safe; the power would ,never be abused.”
The point is that the executive of a Govt, has no
right to claim such power: even sleeping tyranny
is a menace.
The Australian Customs Act should provide a
clear and easy method of remitting disputes to an
Australian court of justice; and the. goods in
dispute should be held for a limited time, during
which the owner could place his appeal before
justice. It is not in the public interest to permit
any executive officer, even the Czar of Customs,
to e ercise a judicial authority which, as it
extends to tlfe arbitrary destruction of imports, is
practically final.
A second point in which the Customs Act
urgently requires amendment is clause 52 (a),
prohibiting the importation of
Any reproduction except by permission of the pro-
prietor of the copyright of any work copyrighted in the
King’s dominions, and of the existence of which copy-
right and date of its expiration notice has been given to
the Minister by or on behalf of the proprietor of Such
Copyright.
This is so intensely stupid that one wonders
how, in the name of Ignorance, the Common-
wealth Parliament came to pass it. Was there
not one of all the lawyers in the House of Repre-
sentatives or in the Senate able to tell Parliament
.that copyright is a matter of proof ? Registration
of copyright is an essential formula, nothing
more. At any time the Australian claimant of
copyright may be called upon to defend his claim
from attack. Then he has to prove, first, that his
claim is duly registered ; second, that it is justi-
fied: he has to prove that his work is a proper
subject of copyright. The Court takes no hear-
says : it takes sworn evidence only.
But the foreign claimant of copyright—what
does he do? He gives the Czar of Customs
“written notice” —not even an affidavit! but
“written notice,” which may apparently come on
a half-sheet of notepaper; and upon that act,
without proof of registry, without justifica-
tion of claim, without anything but the mere
say-so of some unknown person at the other
end of the world, the Czar of Customs
may prohibit—and forfeit—and burn—all in-
fringements of this say-so copyright which ask for
entrance ! Is it not prodigious ? And a Parlia-
ment of lawyers and others, elected to protect
I Australian interests, actually passed that into law !
Clause 57 provides that lists of all works, in
which copyright is notified in this off-hand fashion
to exist, shall be kept for public inspection at the
principal Customs Houses —so that the importer
has at least a chance to know the risk he runs.
But who ever heard of administration proceeding
on those lines—with ‘'the claimant’s affirmation
taking the place of evidence and proof? It is
more than prodigious—it is monstrous. And for
redress: there is none. For all the Act contains
to the contrary, any John Smith in England may
announce to the Czar 1 of Customs-
Sir,—l have the honour to inform you that I am the
proprietor of the works of Shakespeare, and that the
copyright expires on Ist April, 1925
and the works of Shakespeare will be immediately
listed in the principal Customs Houses as ‘ ‘ pro-
hibited imports.”
Of- course, even an official of the Czar of
Customs would not swallow that; though
the law would justify him if he did swallow.
But go into the byways of literature, and
see what avenues of chicanery are opened by
this astounding system of accepting state-
ment without sworn evidence, copyright claims
without proof. What will the Czar of Customs
do if he receives notice from John Smith that he
is the proprietor of Maxime Gorky’s works ?
John Smith may even back his notice by a copy
of the register at Stationers’ Hall; since Sta-
tioners’ Hall registers practically whatever is put
before, it—because registry means nothing, is
' nierely an essential preliminary to action. In
that case the Czar will assuredly announce that
Maxime Gqrky’s. works, other than those published
by John Smith, are “prohibited imports”; and
• Other editions can be forfeited and burnt without
further trouble.
Never mind whether this is likely : the fool of
an Act makes it possible; and there should be no
Open Door to roguery.
Again : if copyright is in dispute ; John Smith
who is lying on his claim, may notify that he is
pwner; and Thomas Brown, who publishes, will
find his books “prohibited imports” in Australia.
Forfeiture. Funeral.
Mark that the tea-man is shod, while the book-
man goes barefoot. Clause 54 provides that the
prohibited tea-man gets notice and 14 days to
show cause why his tea should not be forfeited •
the tea-man is on velvet. The book-man gets no
notice ; no time ; the Act gives the Czar power
to forfeit and destroy incontinently : the book-
man is on rocks and knife-edges.
Take it any. way you like, clause 52 (a) is
stupid. And, if it is based on a European model,
kindly remember that Europe is at most one week
from protest and explanation by European or
American book-exporters; and 'Australia is four
weeks.
■ v, :
Finally, the whole system of copyright wants
revision. Australia takes international copyright
as a legacy from Britain. We gain practically
nothing by it; we lose practically everything.
Australian copyright should be given to no book
that is not printed and produced in Australia
at least as soon as elsewhere. This means, for
readers : that they will get the best books quick-
est. It means, for artisans, a new impetus, a per-
manent support, to the whole of the book-pro-
ducing trades—printer, binder, type-founder,
paper-maker, ink-maker, cloth-maker—every-
body. It means, for authors, the cession of a
foreign right which is of little or no value, in
exchange for a securer home monopoly which is at
present the only thing they have to live by. And,
if a book is obviously fitted to benefit by interna-
tional copyright, we can take it to Maoriland,
and get international copyright.
Therefore, in literature as in other matters, will
the Commonwealth Parliament please legislate to
keep the brains, the work, and the money in the
country ?
Crumbs Swept Up.
THE volume of Transactions and Proceedings
of the Library Association of Australasia
is pub’ ished late (second meeting held
Oct., 1900 ; report, printed, end of 1901) ;
it is reviewed late ; for the vol. has been a month
in waiting ; and there is n’t much to say about it
anyway. S.A. taxpayer apparently pays for the
printing ; and se might spend sis money in worse
ways, though this'constant effort to make Govt,
pay the printers’ bills of private and quasi-public
organisations should meet constant resistance.
The Library Association is a society of public
librarians and others—not many others—for the
purpose of cultivating the science of libraries and
for the better fulfilment of the Library’s educa-
tional mission. The Transactions mix the
papers read at the 1900 meeting with a 1900 loan
exhibition catalogue and decorative programmes
(having decided to pay, the S.A. taxpayer ap-
parently thought se might as well pay for a loan-
catalogue and decorative programmes). Several of
the papers give us confidence in our public
librarians: possibly the best is an essay by A. W.
Brazier on the principles and practice of literary
classification: it is very open-minded, if you
can understand that; it leaves the impression of a
Brazier lit and glowing, ready to catch newideas
and set them aflame.
E. La T. Armstrong talks sensibly on the great
indecent-book question. He says—
Quite recently a bookseller in a neighbouring colony
[Dvmock, deceased, before the N.S.W. Commission] took
upon himself to say that certain books should not be in a
Public Library on the ground of morality. His arguments
were good only as against the indiscriminate use of the
books in question. The censorship of a Circulating
Library is simple. Even doubtful books should be left
out. But in a great Reference Library this does not
apply. The standard of one age is not the standard of
another. On our drawing-room tables to-day we do not put
Boccaccio, nor the Elizabethan dramatists, nor Smollett,
nor Sterne, nor even Richardson. Without these books,
and countless others to which exception might be taken,
a Reference Library could not be. There should be dis-
crimination as to whom such books are issued, but that
is all. Champagne is good, but champagne is not for
children.
And Balzac and Casanova are good, but Balzac
and Casanova are not for Prof. Morris—who
writes heavily of Matthew Flinders in the Trans-
actions. Prof. Morris relates also his own literary
experience. It appears that he has compiled two
books—the Higinbotham memoir and the Austral
English dictionary ; and in each case the publisher
has had financial reason for regret. Prof. Morris
seems to complain that few Australian public
libraries bought these books. Well, both books
should find a place in Australian reference
libraries; but they are hardly reader-bring-
ing assets. And the reason why their
Australian sale was not greater is not,
as Prof. Morris suggests, because libraries and
readers do not know what is good for them ; but
because, on the whole, his work was badly done.
He has accumulated good material; but he has
not the gift of selection and expression. Besides
being a literary Fish, he is too often a literary
Bore. And Australian readers (more credit to
them !) hate Bores.
R. D. Boys tells us that “during Mafeking
week there was a ‘ boom ’ in lost books at Melb.
public lending library.” . . . Dr. Leeper quotes a
Cambridge librarian’s remark that “he had not
found in twenty years five Englishmen, either
librarians or booksellers, who knew how to distin-
guish a folio from a quarto, or an octavo from a
duodecimo.” Very likely; since those labels have
become practically meaningless descriptions of
book-sizes, as Dr. Leeper ought to know.
With the Transactions comes the Oct. number of
the Library Association’s magazine— The Lffyrary
Record. It has interest. We learn that Dr.
Badham, as trustee of Sydney Library, transferred
“ first editions of Dickens, Thackeray, Lytton,
Bronte, and others,” to the lending branch, “to
be worn out by the fingers of toil-stained-bor-
rowers,” because he did not approve of fiction as a
component of a reference library ! . . . We learn
that “ the list of new books recommended in each
issue of the Record should be alone well wortli the
subscription ” —and turn over to find a very imper-
fect list of “new books,” and a list of juvenile
literature (recommended) which (we appeal to Mr.
Brazier for confirmation) shows but poor judg-
ment. ... We learn that the members
of N.S.W. country libraries (State-aided)
read fiction and play billiards.* And
considering how much Govt, money is given to
Sydney, and how N.S.W. country districts want
cheering up, we make no complaint. . . . There
is a good article on early Victorian magazines bv
H. G. Turner, which spells McCrae “ M‘Crae,”
and refers to R. H. Horne as “ the conceited
little poet, with his mock heroics and his theatri-
cal attitudinising.” . . . And there are numerous
misprints.
Received —
All True, by Joseph Forster (Lond., F. Griffiths). A
pamphlet directed against the administration of law in
England.
The Prime Minister’s English.
S. A. Rosa writes—
Mr. Barton’s recent speech at the Sydney pianoforte
factory (reported verbatim in S.M. Herald) was not
entirely devoid of errors in the use of English. For
instance
“ I would like to say a word also in defence of the tone
of debates in the Commonwealth Parliament. . . . We
have had one or more all-night sittings, and I would like
to say none was provoked by me.” In each case “ would ”
ought to be “should.” “Should” and “would” are
governed by the same rules as “ shall ” and “ will ” (see
Bed Page, 26/10/1), and it is, therefore, just as ungram-
matical to say “I 'would like ” as to say “ I will like.”
Liking is a psychical process that is independent of the
will.
“ We had a vast number of applications for employmen t
in the Public Service.” “I have done my best to prevent
it [disorder] in the Speaker’s chair in this State.” The
“ had ” should be “have had ” ; the “ have done” should
be “did.” In the first example the context shows that
Mr. Barton was dealing with events intimately connected
with the time of the delivering of his speech, which
events would cease to occur, he went on to say, upon in-
dustries being “ undertaken under a sound policy.”
Here, clearly, was a case for the use of the perfect form
of the verb, i.e., “we have had.” As to “I have done,”
Mr. Barton’s preventing disorder in the Speaker’s chair
had nothing to do with the present. Wherefore, the
perfect should not have been used.
“You will see the other absurdity of asserting that
those whose careers have been utterly scathless in the
past, who proved themselves worthy before the new nation,
could seizethe first occasion under Federation . .” In each
of these cases the pluperfect should have been used, be-
cause Mr. Barton spoke of the past, not the indefinite
past (which would have required a preterit) but the past
prior to Federation. “Had been” and “had proved”
should have been used.
“While my colleagues, Mr. William Lyne and Mr.
B. E. O’Connor, sat in the chair with myself.” The use
of “myself ” for “ me,” or, still worse, for “ I,” is a very
common error. “Myself” may be used either for
emphasis, following a noun or pronoun, as in “ I myself,”
or it may be used reflexively. In Mr. Barton’s sentence
“myself” is not used emphatically (the preposition
“ with ” should be emphasised), nor is it used reflexively.
Therefore “ myself ” should have been “ me.”
“We shall have gone to a vast deal of expenditure and
wasted a vast deal of time. "Vast deal” is somewhat
pleonastic; “deal” generally implies that the amount is
considerable. 1 Mr. Barton should have said “ vast
amount.” In accordance with the idiom of our language,
“ expenditure ” should have been “ expense.”
“ I have no fear but, that she [N.S.W.] will retain that
proud lead which the acts of nature and the brairis of
mart have given her.” “That,” in this sentence, is
awkward, redundant, and ambiguous. “But” some-
times means “exeept.” Wherefore the sentence might
mean “ I have no fear except that she will retain.” “ I
have no fear but she will retain,” without the “ that,” is
correct; but “ I have no fear that she will not retain ’’ is
to be preferred.,
" I do not want to blame those who barred Sydney ; it
may have beep considered as an astute step to take
measures which barred both Sydney and Melbourne.”
“Want” sometimes means “ need.” Such words should
generally be avoided when it is possible to choose a word
having only one meaning. “Wish” or “desire” would
be better than “ want.” “As” is redundant.
Mr. Barton’s sentences are somewhat Johnsonian—-with
most of Johnson’s rhetorical defects, but with few, if any,
of Johnson’s antithetical merits. Nevertheless, the
grammar and rhetoric of his speeches are not so bad as
those of Mr. Turner’s speeches. Both these gentlemen
would greatly benefit by a course of instruction in
grammar and composition. Mr. Barton, in particular,
would certainly make a promising pupil.
♦
And Maeterlinck was to marry Mile. Leblanc
in England last month —a concord of Silence and
Sweet Sound. “Etre sage,” dit-il, “ce n’est
point n’avoir pas des passions ; mais e’est ap-
prendre a purifier celles qu’on a.” To filter Mar-
riage through Music: what an ideal for Wisdom
surveying Destiny! And the cricket on the
hearth : what a Treasure for the Humble ! “Ce
qui vaut mieux qu’aimer sop prochain eomme soi-
meme, e’est de s’aimer soi-meme en ” —Leblanc,
naturally.
J*
A. Meston, Q. Protector of Aboriginals, writes
regarding Kendall’s use of Uloola —
Your correspondent, the Bev. J. L. Mathew, would
appear to have only a limited knowledge of aboriginal
vocabularies. The word Uloola was obtained by Kendall
from the Clarence Biver dialect, and is perfectly accu-
rate.
The word is also found in other dialects. I recently
brought in from Cooper’s Creek a couple of men whose
names are “Uloola” and “Caloola.” On Fraser’s Island
the eel was yooloo, or uloo, either spelljng being correct.
In the Cabbi-Cabbi dialect uloola was one of the names
of the porpoise.
On the Clarence the Wadji-Wadji tribes gave the name
of Ulodri to the oldest man, who was given authority to
advise the tribe on questions of fights and corrobbories
and bora ceremonies, none of which were undertaken
without his sanction. When he died, his successor,
some old man famous for his wisdom, went away
to the mountains to an interview with the Great
Spirit, Ulao-tahua, and returned to the camp en-
dowed with all the virtues of his predecessor. The
young wife, combunnigwon, had also to interview Uloo-
tahua before she had a prospect of becoming a mother.
In the Beeawav-ambo dialect of the Ooombangarie tribe,
south of the Clarence, Uloo-tahua became Uloola ; and
in the Awabakal dialect of Port Macquarie Uloola was a
name for the sunrise, though I find no mention of it in
Threlkeld’s vocabulary. Therefore, Kendall was quite
correct in bestowing the name on the hero of his poem.
The best living authority on the Clarence Biver
language, for the last 35 years, is J. F. Small, now, I
believe, at Kempse.y, on the Macleay. He was absolute
master of the Ucum-Ucum dialect in his younger days,
and may be willing to supply a little interesting informa-
tion on the subject.
“ Humour is a sense of the proportion of
things,” wrote Andy Lang— explaining why a
Labour member’s top - hat strikes people as
humourous. And the Amer. Christian Mis-
sionary Society brings fresh parsley to Mark
Twain—
At the annual convention, the treasurer announced
that the receipts for the past year were only some
£24,000. This showed a considerable falling off from the
average of the preceding years. The explanation given
by the treasurer was that Mark Twain had been directly
responsible for the disproportion in the receipts. An
acrimonious controversy was recently waged; in the public
press between the famous American humourist and the
now famous American missionary, Dr. Ament, whose
“looting” exploits in. China have been the subject
bitter comment by Mr. Clemens. The Society agreed
that Mr. Clemens had done immense harm.
So a sense of the proportion of things accounts
for a disproportion iof missionaries’ incomes. How
these little things dovetail in 1
Australian writers in London. Becke, the Inde-
fatigable, has produced another book, Breachley,
Black Sheep. Lawson is not relishing the winter,
and talks of returning to Australia. Some of his
recent work in Blackwood would hardly pass
muster here. L. Mack’s book, The Life and
Letters of an Australian Girl, will be published
by Unwin, probably in the Eng. spring season.
A.J.Gr. comments—
■ Even Ogilvie’s quatrain is a variant, so that of
“Southern Cross” is but,a vari-variant. The original
seems plainly this verse in Basil Hood’s new comic opera,
The Emerald Isle (from the patter song, “ Imitations'”)—
Oh ! the age in which we ’re living strikes a man of any
sense
As an age of make-believe, of imitation, and pretence ;
And it’s gradually growing more.impossible to see
The difference between what people are —and seem to be!
Our ladies grow more youthful now the longer they ’re
alive, '
And reduce their ages annually, after thirty-five
(But for such miscalculations they, will always make
amends
By liberally adding to the ages of their friends).
And if jEsop wrote his fables
In the present year of grace,
He perhaps would turn the tables
'■ v 1 ' On the tortoise in the race—
For which goes quicker on ahead, and stays the faster
there,
The imitation tortoise-shell —or imitation hare?
&
“Werrimee’s” idea—
Do not we need an Aboriginal Gazetteer of Australia—
with Aboriginal-Australian jmaps? Every creek, river,
lagoon,, mountain, and town site in Australia has an
aboriginal name, relating to some local peculiarity or
incident. A compilation of such names, with meanings
and origin, together with native historical items, legends,
racial customs, and other matter, would be interesting.
In many places the names in a district have some peculiar
affix or prefix, which, to the aboriginal student, would be
often sufficient to locate them. About the S.W. border
of Queensland, for instance, many names begin with Noe,
as Nockatunga, Nocundra, Noekaburara, Noeabareena,
&c. ; while in the neighbourhood of the Darling we have
the termination Gam'd, as in Wilcannia, Bancania, Yan-
oania, &c. The terminals ar, ah, 00, ee are common all
over Australia, but the prefixes are generally terri-
torially distinctive, a matter overlooked by most writers
when coining Australian names. Queensland, to my
fancy, possesses the most beautiful aboriginal' names—
sweet-sounding, poetic names that have begotten many a
bush bard, for the names are an inspiration in themselves.
The mighty White-man cannot fashion anything to equal
them ; and all lovers of Australia would like many of his
idiotic names struck off the map, and those of the Black-
man preserved.
Older and newer stories of Lord Salisbury, our
reputed Bendigo digger of the fifties —
A verbose bishop rose to address the House of Lords.
“ I will divide my speech under twelve heads,” he said.
Thereupon Salisbury begged to be allowed to interpose.
“ A friend of mine,” the Marquis said, “ was returning
home late one night, when, opposite St. Paul’s, he saw an
intoxicated man trying to ascertain the time on the big
clock there. Jhst then it began to strike, and slowly
tolled out twelve. The drunken man listened, looked
hard at the clock, and said: ‘ Confound you 1 why
could n’t you have said that all at once ?’ ” The bishop
took the hint.
Another. Salisbury often lunches at the Athenseum
Club, of which many bishops are members. Once, on a
rainy day, one of his secretaries, observing that his chief
was starting out to lunch at that club, rushed for an
umbrella and offered it to him. “ No, no,” said Lord
Salisbury; “I’ve lost too many in the Athenaeum. I
cannot trust these bishops.”
Yet another. After a heated discussion in his presence
on a current topic, an emphatic member of the party
exclaimed : “ I shan’t get any of you to agree with me ;
you are such a complete set of Philistines.” Salisbury
asked him whether he recollected what happened to the
Philistines. The reply was “ No.” “ They were smitten
with the jawbone of an ass,” said the Marquis.
This seems/lecisive. Kendall, however, does not
apply tbeHvord TJloola to “ the hero of his poem,”
but writes: “Uloola, behold him!”—as who
should say “Great Spirit of his tribe! behold
him, the last of his tribe ! ” And Kendall, of
course, as boy and man, passed years in the
Clarence R, district and its neighbourhood.
Man is to Woman in the solemn hour
As the great tree that bends across the stream,
Whose likeness on her breast has been her dream
Since that first twilight broken by the shower.
So the great roots that suck her moisture forth
Are as the kisses that he showers at dawn,
And from her body as he draws his worth
So his fair likeness in her soul is born.
And as the pollard tree, decayed and sere,
Sinks back to earth and crumbles where he stood.
New saplings rise, new youth and strength appear,
And once again the maiden stream is woo’d.
Oli, how her beauties in all times that are,
Lie fair revealed unto the morning star !
Louisa S. Baker, greatly , daring-, in The Thrush.


M'DOUCALL’S SHEEP DIP
THE ORIGINAL NON-POISONOUS DIP.
IVI DOUGALL BROS., 8 Spring 1 Street; Sydney*
pk.seia.tia; 3XT.Z. X». &■ JVC. A.. Co., Ltd.. LOCAL AGENTS EVERYWHERE
WOOL
SEND
YOUR
WOOL
■ ft
TO
WINCHGOMBE, CARSON & CO.
SYDNEY.
If you want to get the best possible results.
Ltd.
larrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.
Wool and Produce Brokers.
Consolidated Charge \
; for Selling Wool J
2i Per Cent
{lnclud'es all Charges excepting
cartage from steamer’s wharf.
Fat Stock Salesmen, Stock & Station Agents.
SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.,
Circular Quay, Sydney.
BRAUN ORE SAMPLE-CRUSHER
and PULVERISER.
ĥ
Combination of a Jaw and Roll
Pulveriser working together.
May be operated by either hand or power.
Jaws, 3J in. wide; Roll, 6 in. diameter; Belt
Wheel, 16 x2s in. Total Weight, 2851bs
Write for Particulars to—
PARKE & LACY CO., Ltd.
60 Clarence-St., Sydney, n.s.w.
MINING ENGINEERS & MACHINERY
MERCHANTS.
HAVE THE
BEST.
H-H-ttH
mm
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE FENCE
Is built by a light, handy machine, easily operate!, which will weave
THREE CHAINS OF FENCE AN HOUR.
The Lateral Wires are two-ply cable of best Gal. Steel Wire intersected by Crimped Steel Pickets
securely intenvoven at any desired distance apart, forming a perfect Web Fence which will hold
securely all kinds of Stock.
FOR CATALOGUES AND PARTICULARS
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE FENCE CO.,
128 Franklin St., Melbourne ; 143 Sussex St., Sydney.
NEITHER CRACK
NOR BURN.
<*. J>
<J> ff
5006
CBB
5007
5000
QUALITY NOT BETTER
IN A GUINEA PIPE. . .
SHILLING BRIAR PIPES
QUARANTEE.— Should any of our Celebrated CAN’T-B-BEAT Briar Pipes Crack or Barn ■
New One will be Exchanged for it immediately on Application.
Sold by all Tobacconists. By Post, 1«. 2d.
Mick Simmons, haymarket, sydhey.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILUP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Charge s 3 Per Cent, to the Growers.
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge id. per lb. to the Buyers.
“On Our Selection,” By “ Steele Rudd.”
Sons Cm Effected by Warner’s Cafe Cure.
The curative properties of Warner’s Safe Cure are so well known that it is only necessary for
anyone to make inquiry for them to hear from the lips of those whom they know many instances of
the healing virtue of this remarkable medicine.
Warner’s Safe Cure acts scientifically. It exercises a specific action upon the liver and kidneys,
restoring them to health and activity. When the kidneys and liver are properly performing their
appointed task of extracting the urinary and biliary poisons, all dise ses arising from the presence of
these poisons in the system are overcome, and the cure effected is radical because it is natural.
The common diseases caused by the presence of urinary and biliary poisons in the system are,;
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Lumbago
Backache
Sciatica
Blood Disorders
Anaemia
Indigestion
Dyspepsia
Biliousness
Sick Headache
General Debility
Gravel and Stone
Bladder Diseases
Bright’s Disease
For the reason stated, Warner’s Safe Cure has complete mastery over all these diseases. The
following typical letters are worth reading.
Kidney Disease Cured.
Post Office Hotel, Maryborough, Q.,
Nov. 3, 1900.
Dear Sirs, —I have much pleasure indeed in forwarding
the following testimonial as to the marvellous curative
Properties of Warner’s Safe Cure, and you are at liberty
to use it in any way you think fit.
I may state briefly that I was a sufferer from chronic
Kidney Disease, which made my life perfectly unbear-
able. It is needless to say that I tried the best available
doctors both in England and Australia, with but one
result—absolute failure. I also tried different proprietary
hiedicines, but with no beneficial results. During this
time you can well understand the pain and misery I
Endured—to say nothing of the expense. I was staying
Mth a professional friend, and related my trouble to him.
He suggested Warner’s Safe Cure. I ridiculed the idea,
telling him I was heartily sick of both doctors and medi-
cine. The symptoms gradually became worse, the pain
*hore intense, and, in a fit of desperation, I despatched
•by assistant for a bottle of your invaluable remedy,
although expecting no better results from it than from
other medicines I had used. Thank God for that bottle.
was but the forerunner of my complete cure. I used
half a dozen bottles, and my cure was perfect as
"mil as marvellous. I have recommended the medicine to
a number of friends, and they are not slow to endorse
"'hat I have written. Hoping, sirs, that your remedy
'"’ill be extensively used in similar cases to my own, and
Wishing you every success and prosperity, I remain,
Yours sincerely,
L. 0. Snowdon,
Surgeon Dentist.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Limited.
Indigestion Cured.
64 McCormick Street, Port Melbourne, Vie.,
August 24,1900.
Sirs, —Having been a sufferer for a long time from
indigestion and Heartburn, I was advised to give War-
ner’s Safe Cure a trial. I did so, and it has completely
°hred me. I want to recommend it to fellow sufferers,
knowing that it would do them a vast amount of good.
You can make any use of this letter you may wish to, as
I am grateful for the cure.
I remain,
Patrick McGrath.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & 00., Limited.
Barcaldine, Queensland,
November 5, 1900.
Dear Sirs,—l suffered severely from Indigestion, which
caused great pain in my chest and between the shoulders.
After passing several sleepless nights I determined to try
Warner’s Safe Cure, and am now pleased to say that the
pains have entirely left me.
Yours faithfully,
Messrs. H. H. Warner &
Reginald Parnell.
00., Limit ed.
Liver Disease Cured.
Manchester Street, Christchurch, N.Z.,
_ „ ' March 28, 1900.
Dear Sirs, —For many months I suffered from Liver
Complaint, which caused me the greatest agony. I tried
various remedies, but they did me no good. Finally, I
was persuaded to give your valuable Warner’s Safe Cure
a trial, and was surprised at the relief from pain and the
benefit I received.
Yours faithfully,
A. J. Standby,
_ Wool Classer.
To the Proprietors of Warner’s Safe Cure, Melbourne.
Bourke Street, Surry Hills, Sydney,
_ . September 18, 1899.
Dear Sirs, —
For years I was a martyr to Liver and Kidney Com-
plaint until I tried Warner’s Safe Cure, when I obtained
a most beneficial result. In fact, after taking a few
bottles I seemed a new woman.
„ • (Mrs.) J. Hill.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Limited, Melbourne.
Biliousness Cured.
73 Queen Street, Auckland, N.Z.
April 20, 1901.
Gentlemen, —
I can certify with pleasure as to the merits of Warner’s
Safe Cure. I suffered a great deal from Biliousness and
pains in the back until, upon strong recommendation, I
used this medicine. The result was that after taking four
bottles of Warner’s Safe Cure and two vials of Safe Pills, I
became as well as ever I was in my life, and I have had no
return of the complaint since.
Yours truly,
W. SOUTHORN.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Limited.
Sciatica. Cured.
Wood’s Siding, Railway Station,
South Brunswick, Vic.,
January 18,1900.
Dear Sirs, —It is now nearly nine years since I was sud-
denly attacked with Sciatica in the back and hips. I
suffered excruciating pain, and was unable to dress my.
self or move about the house. I lost flesh until I was like
a skeleton. I was under the charge of a doctor for a long
while, but he could give me no relief. At last he gave
me up, saying mine was a hopeless case. I was in despair
when a friend advised me to take Warner’s Safe Cure and
Warner’s Safe Rheumatic Cure, alternately, as well as
Warner’s Safe Pills. I was sceptical, but being strongly
urged I gave the medicines a trial. At first I got no
relief, but my wife persuaded me to persevere. After the
second bottle, to my great joy, the pains disappeared like
magic. I improved rapidly. My strength and appetite
increased, and I was able to sleep soundly, which I had
not done for months. I was quite a new man. I took in
all six bottles of the medicines and two bottles of pills,
and was completely cured.
Yours truly,
F. Miller.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Limited, Melbourne.
Rhematism Cured.
Addington, Christchurch, N.Z.
Dear Sirs, —For many years I was suffering with Rheu-
matic pains all over my body, hands, and feet, and often-
times I was unable to walk across the room without the
aid of table or chair to lean on. My hands and arms were
very much swollen, as if with dropsy. I consulted a
physician, who said I would have to give up work and
take a long rest. He prescribed for me, and gave me
medicines, which gave me a little ease, but failed to cure
me. I was getting as bad as ever, when I was advised to
try Warner’s Safe Cure. lat once purchased a bottle of
the medicine and commenced its use. In a very short
time I began to improve, getting better and stronger,
and the pains less severe. I continued its use a while
longer, when the pains all left me, and all symptoms of
dropsy disappeared. For the last twelve months I have
been in splendid health. lam fully convinced that my
cure is permanent.
Ann Newcombe,
Caretaker Addington State School.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Limited, Melbourne, Vic.
Neuralgia. Cured.
81 Brougham Street, Kew, Vic.,
December 27, 1900.
Dear Sirs, —I can safely recommend Warner’s Safe Cure
to anyone suffering from Neuralgic pains, as I have used
this medicine myself for Neuralgia. I took two bottles
with immediate good results.
Yours faithfully,
E. H. Thompson.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Limited.
Gravel Cured.
Lilydale, Victoria,
February 23, 1900.
Dear Sirs.—lt has long been my intention to send you
a few lines in reference to my cure by the use of Warner’s
Safe Cure. I now do so, and trust that by this means
other sufferers will obtain relief.
Some eight years ago I was seized with severe pain in
my left side, which continued to get worse until I could
bear it no longer, and consulted a doctor. He said I was
suffering from Gravel, and prescribed for me. The
medicine he gave me did not ease the pain in the least.
Someone then advised me to try Warner’s Safe Cure, and
I did so. The first few doses gave me ease. I continued
to take the medicine, and have since had no return of the
complaint.
W. V. Daniels,
Butcher.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Limited.
Stone in Bladder Cured.
8 Victoria Street, Paddington, N.S.W.,
July 28, 1900.
Some five years ago I was under medical treatment for
severe pains in the back ; in fact, I was completely done
up. The doctor who attended me wanted me to undergo
an operation by crushing a stone in my bladder, but I
did not like the idea, although the pain I was suffering
was severe.
A friend who came to see me advised me to try Warner’s
Safe Cure. I did, and after taking some three or four
bottles I began to feel better. I continued the course for
about five months, and, thanks to this medicine, I became
free from any trouble whatever.
T. J. Oastner.
To the Proprietors Warner’s Safe Cure.
Kidney and Bladder Disease Cured.
William Street, Darlinghurst, Sydney,
May 26, 1899.
Sirs,—This is to certify that I have suffered from a very
bad condition of my kidneys and bladder. I tried ail
sorts of medicines, but got no relief until a friend told me
to take Warner’s Safe Cure. I did so, and after taking
five or six bottles was completely cured. I am now well
and strong, and able to go about my household duties.
I am, yours truly,
To Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Limited, Melbourne.
Hornsby Street, Maldon, Vic.,
December 9, 1899.
It gives me very great pleasure to be able to testify as
to the excellence of Warner’s Safe Cure. I have found
nothing equal to it for Kidney and Bladder Complaint,
from which I suffered. I have never been better in my
life than I am now.
George Aust,
Storekeeper (late of Scarsdale)
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Limited. '
Headache and Loin Pains Cured.
Doncaster Hotel, Harden, N.S.W.
_ c,. June 15, 1901.
Dear Sirs, —
For about three years I was a constant sufferer from
bad headaches and severe pains across the loins.
On the advice of a fellow-traveller I gave Warner’s Safe
Cure a trial, with the result that after taking three
bottles I was completely restored to health.
Yours truly,
M. J. Srri. Mallanbt.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Limited.


TATTERSALL’
Address: Care GEO. ADAMS, Hobart
Launceston 0. Jan. 22.
60,000 Subscribers at 6*
To TATTEKSALL.
Please allot ma shares in abova.
Name
Address
£ : i
Hobart C. Jan. 29.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name ,
Address .
Anniversary H. Jan. 27.
60,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name 1
Address
Newmarket H. March 1.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me —shares in above.
Name
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.
Address “ Tattersall,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


“INDIGESTION
ftnd RheunmtiamJaid hold
of me six years back. Till
then there was not a healthier,
heartier, or stronger man than
myself in all New South Wales.
Illness was unknown to me.
SEtGttZ
SfRM?
I could eat like a horse, sleep like a
top, and work like a bullock. After-
wards life was a misery and work
impossible. Four years’ torture
from Indigestion and Rheu-
matism was finally ended by
Seigel’s Syrup two years ago,
and I have never lost a day’s
work since. Edward Davis,
16, Little Hill Street,
Surrey Hills, Sydney.
June 26th, 1901.”
SMOKE .
THE
GBD
INSIST
on having this Brand
and no other.'
AGENTS—
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDTS. CO.
231 Clarence Street, Sydney.
W-*i
A %
it%td(! D z
I ij*S
Alb I
va-J
3
. i*5,EC$
Beware-ih
i fci «KR!BK
ORNAMENTAL hair.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers a Wigmakers.
Send to us for .Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia.
CRAIG & jSLITKBKT,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 George Street, Sydney.
“SANTAS”
NATURE'S
GREAT DISINFECTANT.
Non-Poisonous*
Does Not Stain Linen •
FLUID, POWDER, SOAPS, &c.
Of all Chemists and Stores.
Valuable book, “HOW TO DISINFECT,”
free on application.
The “ SANITAS” Co., Ltd.,
BETHNAL GREEN, LONDON.
RHEUM ALGIA
rphe new cure for Rheumatism, Lumbago, Gout, Sciatica
Neuralgia, and similar ailments
IS
a lotion compounded from herbs
PURELY AUSTRALIAN.
3S. 6d. POST FREE.
K-heumalgia Remedy Co., Bathurst,
Wholesale depot for N.S.W. and Q.
Ireland leads most countries in the matter
of longevity—2o per cent, of the population die of
old age. According to official estimates there are
now 212 persons in Ireland over 100 years old.
By the way, some cynical Tory, writing in British
papers on the effect of old-age pensions in Maori-
land, opines that if Scotland had a 10s. weekly
pension there would be no more funerals north
of the Tweed.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Loeltyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
331- per Halt-dozen, free by post throuyhout
Australia,
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE A SONS, BRISBANE
Australian
Established 1849.
Mutual Provident Society
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
, , our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaving up to 20 per cent,
of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
HEAD OFFICE : 87 PITT STREET, SIDNEY.
RICHARD TEEOE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
HMftUgft,
Commercial
Bugrsy,
£l4 IOSr
H. HilHer,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
ASS’ Send for a
Catalogue.
sm
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicle*
The Best and Cheapest.
EL HILLIER, 130 Snssex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
PLAYER’S
WORLD
FAMED
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
m
WHOLESALE
Distributing: Agents
New South Wales —
M. RUTTY & GO.,
SYDNEY.
Victoria —
J. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia—
Hart, Lawrence & Co.
Propy. Ld., Adelaide
Western Australia —
Lionel Samson & Son,
Fremantle
Queensland—
Thos. Brown & Sons, Ld.
Brisbane
Burns, Philp & Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania —
Watchorn Bros.,
Hobart
John McKenzie & Co.,
Launceston
New Zealand —
D. Benjamin & Co.,
Dunedin, Wellington
and Christchurch.
rxr - %
%
II
300 K.W. Three-phase Generator
GANZ& C°
DYNAMOS, MOTORS.
EVERYTHING ELECTRIC.
Expert Advice Free.
Bole Agents for Australasia i
The Austral Otis Engineering Co. Ltd.
SOUTH MELBOURNE.
MARTELLS
"A genuine
old Brandy
made fro.m
Wine.”
Medical Press.
THREE STAR
“Particularly suitable
for Medicinal
Purposes.”
The Lancet.
BRANDY.
Price 6s.
Post Free.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
BY
“Steele Rudd.”
NS W - Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company
When In town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies' Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.— Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 pot
cent more for your requirements.
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNBJf
ħsdh
OUK SPECIAL No. 8
£8 18/6
Delivered at any Wharf er
»Ji.W. Railways, station
£lO 10/-
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mates of Mine.
Brown as a wallaby, lithe as a whip,
Wisp of red silk on his sun-withered neck,
Thong on his shoulder, and oath on his lip ;
Every week putting two pound on his cheque,
Tough as a bull, and as ready for battle ;
“ Gor' bli’ me ! ”
Cattle !
Dusty and sulky, and down-at-the-mouth,
Torn of the legging, and worn of the spur ;
Slugging along in the heel of the drouth,
Cursing his loitering escort of cur ;
Backward and forward and back, half-asleep;
“ Blast ’em all! ”
Sheep /
ENCORE VERSE.
Bent of the shoulder, and lean of the thigh,
Loud in his dressing, and flash in his walk ;
Horse-shoe of silver to fasten his tie,
Sprinkling of “blanky” to garnish his talk ;
Bow-legged and bumptious and common and
coarse,
“ S’ help me Bob 1 ”
Horse I
U.K.
WILL OGILVIE.
Come Back to the Bush!
I’m what they call a “ solid man,”
I’ve made a decent pile;
So I brought my folks to London,
And we’ve settled down in style.
We wear clothes that don’t quite suit us,
Go to balls, and shows, and plays,
And we’re striking out for happiness
In various kinds of ways.
But a Voice keeps on calling me back
To the bush and the wallaby-track,
To the home in the clearing,
The sheep and the shearing —
The voice keeps on saying, “ Come back / ”
We’re living in Belgravia,
In the midst of Fashion’s whirl.
On my left there lives a marquis,
And right opposite an earl.
We’ve a kerridge and a coachman,
And a footman dressed in plush,
Whose calves stick out so prominent
They make my daughters blush.
But the Voice keeps on saying, “ Come back
To the bush and the wallaby-track,
Where the bright sun is glowing
And cattle are lowing,
Come back to your freedom, come back! ”
My wife she holds “ receptions ”
While my daughters study “art,”
And my son he drives a tandem,
Though his father druv a cart.
We have dinner in the evening,
And we always dress to dine ;
We eat strange food with foreign names,
And wash it down with wine.
Yet, the Voice keeps on calling me back
To the bush and the wallaby-track,
Where the wool-bales are packing,
And stockwhips are cracking,
It whispers for ever —“ Come back / ”
And the voice keeps calling, calling
Till I see the iron-bark ridge,
Till I scent the gum-logs burning
In the gully near the bridge;
I can hear the teamsters swearing
As they drive the bullock-dray,
And my spirit’s branding cattle
In the paddocks far away.
And the Voice keeps on saying, “ Come back
To the bush and the wallaby-track ! ”
To the parrots and ’possums
And sweet wattle-blossoms,
It keeps on inviting me back.
And my heart seems crushed and stifled
’Mid the teeming city’s rush,
And my eager soul is panting
For the freedom of the bush ;
And I feel that though I wander
Where illustrious feet have trod,
I’m near the world’s great throbbing heart,
But I’m not so close to God.
And the Voice keeps on saying, “ Come back
To the bush and the wallaby-track —
To the bush, with its sadness,
Its grandeur and gladness,
Its space and its freedom. Come back ! ”
N - s - w -
THOS. E. SPENCER.


MONKEY
BRAND
50 A P
Makes Tin Nke Silver
Copper like Gold;
Brass like Mirrors;
Windows like Crystal;
Crockery like Marble.
Cleanses and polishes at one and the same time.
Does not polish the dirt in, polishes the dirt out.
Cleans and Brightens everything, but
Won't Wash Clothes,
DIAMOND SAPPHIRE RUBY EMERALD OPAL turquoise pearU
RINGS
. . AT . .
FREETRADE
PRICES,
Kindly send for full particulars
and Catalogue.
M 0 M M ♦■■■
Jewellers & Opticians
90 King ST, Sydney.
*» ■s,
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.
Price Oc3L.
Rock Lily Hotel.
Ml*. Leon Houraa.UX, Proprietor ,
'W'IS.HE.S to J be remembered to his many clients and
o H and Strangers travelling through
Sydney for the CHRISTMAS HOLIDAYS to pay a visit to
his Establishment noted, for its Curious Picture Gallery
its Lovely Gardens and Parks. ° *
. . . The Visitor will find . . .
Grand Accommodation,
Also Good French Cuisine, Large Banqueting
Rooms capable of Accommodating 200 Guests.
. . . Also, PRIVATE ROOMS.
i. 9 LOSE TO THE BEACH, which
shooting country Bathingr; also NEAR GREAT
All Kinds of Private Vehicles to hand at the
Rock Lily Stables.
Coaches leave Manly 10 o’clock, 11.15 a.m. and 4.15 p.m.
PARE—ONE SHILLING.
Rock Lily Hotel, |)arrabeen.
Telephone. l34, Manly. Leon Houreaux, Proprietor.
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
A
Federal
Spirit
that
will
Build
up
a
Splendid
Constitution.
THE
OLD BATTLE AXE BRAND.
CD
c
/3i
'S
V
(<
ro
■d
IAI
\
S'?
Lp3
<>
f ’t’
“WOULD NOT BURN.”
We have agents in every State who'll give you fullest particulars
i ’
if you’ll write for
CATALOGUE
Here's the list
B
Agents for
f Wellington, N.Z. ,
(Brisbane, Q.
Adelaide, S.A.
Melbourne, V.
Freemantle, W.A. .
Mr. James W. Jack.
Messrs. E. Rich & Co., Ltd.
~ A. W. Sandford & Co.
„ Brooks, Robinson & Co., Ltd.
>. J. M. Ferguson. Ltd.
GENERAL AGENTS—
E RICHS CO, LTD
x ■ /
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
BRISBANE, Q.
We are often asked if Ruberoid will burn
readily ? Here's your answer in three words —
“would not burn." Don't think for a moment
however that it's fire proof. That’s not so,
but it won't burn readily, not as readily as
wood for instance, and it's insured by the
Fire Underwriters’ Association at I/- % more
than they ask for a slate roof.
“WOULD NOT BURN.”
0.
fy^/YV '
, /ti'A-^j-rv-iX' K
te«Vy.
P~y
,
if* On —cj
<*A r^*<£-3-*urt~f~~~.
f •S 0 J- LO* t*-' L*> &>C£oisZ,f\.
r*y~*^
* *


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vox, 23. No. 1143,
SATURDAY, JANUARY 11, 1902.
Prick On.
Soon after the Commonwealth Government
advised of the readiness of the Lmperial Govern-
ment to accept the services of another Australian
contingent in South Africa, Mr. Barton received
a communication from Lord Kitcneuer, asking
r.hai trekkers should accompany »he troops.
Mr. Barton, reforrlirg'Tft this message jester
. I; day, said before making the request Public it
\ ' vvae thought advisable to ask if Lord
) oieam "trackers" or "trekkers. 1 A reply io hw
cominumuailon had now been received. from
V ' this it was learnt that the commander-ln-Chiel ,
) j ,o South \frtca wanted trackers. /
_ London, Wednesday.—A “ monster meeting” of dukes and earls was
held in the spoon-makers’ Guildhall last night.
Lord Algy Adelpayt, Keeper
of the Guinea Pigs to the
Grand Heir Apparent,'
s, made an impassioned _
' speech denounc-
ing the sweat- 1
ing of State
Gover-
nors
V
<5>V
oV/V'’
.«■• ~V
*Sr xjy l . Cr
> >» »-V >
%*
/a^
/. o ' */ fa \
NX VXX \
X> \XX, \
\>\ vA N
Xv %> , *X> X.
xvV,, v\\<*
\%A V<V
x v %^
Lorrf Algy urged upon all
present to stand shoulder
to shoulder m maintaining
tlie old rate of wages.
A nobleman's trades-union, to be
called the Anti-Perspiration Peers,
n was formed, and cheques to the
extent of £17,000,000 were
drawn on the spot for a
strike-fund.
—Bulletin’s own
special cable.
r 'y
« w "f3’\on,4V'sVy\
n’ois yy \
pr.f<S/ \
” // Ik. I 1 X
This will end in introducing Vice-Regal <
v black labor, and our corner-stones
may be well and truly laid by a
Cingalese, wearing a turban,
who will take the job on
.for £4500.
/ <c>dl nj<L o.
■fairg Sfor^- , C roL'j-
pa y [
Ca l »n>
i- <7 bo. b 1 e 11* i j
" 115
/ Cjf-an’licx. Willj ot ) { ~ e
/ (Of rat'll" Vlorz ftlCLij orjc.t ixftoy S
/-Tfjcre rfu.h a nccnjiid o’SLlllldo.y iVljo pl'orrj-
/ 0«cl to build ativrft? bridge - <iU -1/-C
LONDON, Saturday Afternoon—“ The
Times” this morning publishes a ringing
passionate poem by Mr. Kudyard Kipling,
in which ”tbe Poet of Imperialism” has ap-
pealed to the British nation to face the ne-
cessities of Imperialism, accepting the prin-
ciple cff conscription
John See (listening to returned sol-
diers’ chorus): “ Let me see ! Where
have I heard that tune before 2 ”
R Xj CI? iC K £"T
y So
\ *^-J
/’ T y<e #u»- £ a/ ?
rev/ers<?
\ Wlld-tyCcl flj (itjtnKivjc^
°f IfQ’fftrs of Jra/cr
njohj^rJ r~r-=~~
J/tfUt 1 And - 's
/ s<Lore. ?
Mr. Kipling condemns the immense im-
portance which. In Britain, is now-a-days
attached to cricket and football, and, refer-
ring to the colonial contingents for active
service in South Africa, he accuses the
British people of "fawning on youuger na-
tions for weD who can shoot and ride.”
Bbitisb Lion : “ That’s all Tight, Rudyard, don’t mind me , I’m getting used to it
Everybody does it."
SOME CURRENT POLITICS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
** Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A W’EEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBER*
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly „. ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia, and Maori!and.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Inter provincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
■6l, ivitli 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of \\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland icill be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —] \d. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition o/The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to .The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
aHicle, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the " Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short, Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 2000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in, Itlacle and. White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and, adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good, idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
■ — i.e., any picture which has to be re-drau)n—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street <fe Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. — L. E. Lee, Palace Hotel.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Capetown. Gwelo News Agency
Rhodesia.
TTi^^zzlleZzoi.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 11, 1902.
Our Argentine Rival.
Nowadays the Argentine spectre is the one
which looms up most persistently before our
primary producer—the man who tears raw
material off the earth in one shape or another,
and sends it to England and elsewhere be-
cause we have no large manufacturing popu-
lation to consume it locally. Argentina has
been a coming spectre for so long that people
began to doubt if it would ever really arrive.
But it certainly has arrived. The rival is no
very large one, comparatively speaking, and
as a matter of mere acreage. Even including
its recent annexation of three-fourths of
Patagonia (much of which new territory is
sodden and frost-bitten and of doubtful
value) the Argentine republic is only a little
over one-third the area of Australia and
Tasmania, and its population is only a little
larger than that of the Commonwealth. But,
all the same, it has now 5,000,000 more
sheep, 13,000,000 more cattle and 3,000,000
more horses than the Commonwealth pos-
sesses. It has almost twice as much land
under cultivation, as the Commonwealth
can show-, and it is making very
respectable progress in manufactures. For
the 10 months to 31st October, 1901,
Argentina exported to England twice as
many carcases of sheep and lambs as the
Commonwealth did, and three times as much
frozen beef, and its products command
higher prices than ours. It is now far ahead
of us in wool, and it is starting to grow
sugar on a large scale. The Argentine has a
better-watered country than ours, and he
has less freight to pay in order to place his
goods on the English market. It is largely
through his competition that the price of all
our agricultural and pastoral products has
dropped so heavily, and this great competi-
tor appears to have room for a vast amount
of further expansion. Under these cir-
cumstances there is something extra ridi-
culous about the stereotyped advice of
the Foreign-trade theorist—to trust to our
“natural industries,” to depend almost
wholly on dragging agricultural and pastoral
products off a barren and drought-cursed
land, and on selling them in the most distant
and most glutted market on earth, and to
make no effort to grow a local manufacturing
population which will supply the farmer
with a big market here—not 16,000 miles
away.
* • * *
The Fat Man of this country naturally
gets up at this emergency to state that the
rising of Argentina to the position of a
dangerous and possibly disastrous rival is
owing to private enterprise, private railway-
management, the absence of a Labor Party
in politics, the absence of an eight-hour
movement, and the fact that the Argentine
doesn’t strike very often, works considerable
hours for moderate wages, and has no concilia-
tion or arbitration court or similar institution.
To some extent, of churse, the Fat Man’s
case looks right. A country where man
works ten hours for a low wage can pro-
duce more cheaply than, and undersell,
the one where he works eight hours for a
decent wage. But the bulk of the trade
which Australia is losing, and which Argen-
tina is gaining, is a trade in articles which
are produced by miserably cheap labor even
in Australia. Nobody suspects the cocky,
or the cocky’s employee, or the man who
works for the insolvent pastoralist, of re-
ceiving a large and regal remuneration for a
small day’s work. His pay has never been
fixed by Act of Parliament; no Conciliation
or Arbitration Court has ever reached him—
in the Commonwealth, at all events ; and
the last time a small section of him went on
strike was ten long years ago. As regards
the railway question, about half, or rather
more than half, the Argentine railways are
in private hands, and they carry goods, on
the whole, pretty cheaply, not because private
enterprise can run things any more cheaply
than State management, but because the
companies have been aided and pauper-
ised by enormous State subsidies, and
because, in many cases, the Govern-
ment was diddled into a disastrous
agreement whereby it guaranteed a dividend.
Australia could reduce its freights 25 or 50
or 75 per cent, in the sarnq fashion—by the
general revenue making good the loss. Still,
the Argentine railways, as an example of the
incapacity of private enterprise to stand
without State assistance, or, at least, of its
rapacious desire to lean on the State at every
possible opportunity, are certainly all there.
* * * *
The advantages of better soil, better rain-
fall and a far shorter sea-voyage to carry its
products to the European market, are suf-
ficient in themselves to account for the
Argentine boom. But, in addition to this,
that land, despite revolutions and civil and
foreign wars, never had quite the same in-
sensate gang of Fat Men whose foreign bor-
rowing policy has ruined Australia. The
Argentines certainly did hair-raising things
in the way of finance, but, after all,
they only owe about £80,000,000 of
external debt, against the Common-
wealth’s £200,000,000 or thereabouts. There
is nearly £4,000,000 less going out every year
to pay interest to the foreign Cohen,
and that makes a material difference in the
drain on the community’s resources. The
Argentine, with his rudimentary Spanish
ideas of finance, raised most of his loans
locally, much of them by compulsory issues
of paper money. The circulating medium is
mostly paper, and the paper doesn’t cost
per cent, interest per annum. Argentina
doesn’t keep £20,000,000 of borrowed gold
lying constantly idle in its banks at a dead
loss of about £700,000 a year in interest, and
a further large amount in circulation at a
further loss in interest, as Australia does,
merely for the sake of being able to say that
it lives up to the British theories on the
subject of a gold currency. Its paper dollar,
nominally worth 45., is depreciated to less
than 25., and Argentina takes the matter
philosophically. When an Argentine sells
£lOOO worth of produce in England it fetches
him in over £2OOO in his own depreciated
currency, and that booms the export trade.
When another Argentine buys £lOOO worth
of goods in England he has to pay over £2OOO
of his paper currency for them, and that
helps to keep down imports, and assists local
industries along. During the last seven
years —the years of the Argentine boom—
exports have risen from being £2,000,000
more than imports to being £14,000,000
more than imports, and by reason of the
difference A rgenHna is beginning to reduce
its foreign debt a little and hold up its head
again among the nations.
* * • *
When Argentina struck a really bad time
after its borrowing boom it didn’t borrow
more money at any cost in order to keep
itself apparently solvent—it simply went
temporarily insolvent. The result* of this
easy, but dishonest, process was that things
came round quickly, and it was soon able to
resume payment. Australia would also have
cotne round quiekly in ’93 if it had saved a
few millions a year by partially suspending
payment of its interest bill. Argentine
credit received such a shock through these
happenings that it became practically im-
possible to float more foreign loans, and that
saved it from getting deeper in the mire.
It didn’t raise loans at great expense to meet
its deficits in the bad times so long as it could
issue more paper. It had no British traditions
to live up to, and it didn’t borrow merely
to support its beastly moral dignity. Its
paper money may be dirty and depreciated,
but a debtor country with a gold circulation,
and with big gold reserves in its banks, is
making a stupendous annual loss in interest,
and the dirty paper money involves no loss
in interest. Its depreciated condition helps,
indirectly, to protect Argentine industries.
Meanwhile, Australia tries to live up to
Britain’s ideas without Britain’s money.
Because Britain has a gold circulation of
its own, Australia must needs spend some-
thing like£l,ooo,oooayearinterest in borrow-
ing the money to have a gold circulation also.
And Australia is going downhill. Argentina,
having pulled through its worst troubles by
a certain amount of cheerful dishonesty, and
an off-hand disregard of lofty traditions
when it couldn’t afford to keep them up, is
distinctly on the up-grade. Australia is
ready to make any sacrifice in the way of
borrowing and faking the public accounts in
order that it may keep faith with the public
creditor by paying the interest regularly.
The blessed result is that it is able to borrow
more money, and get into worse difficulties.
* * * *
On the top of everything else, Argentina
has the immense advantage of being an
independent State—a shabby one it is true —
and not a mere colony. When a man makes
a huge pile in Australia, and acquires much
Australian property, he generally lights out
for London to look for a shoddy title, and to
put his sons in the British army, and to
marry his daughters into the British aris-
tocracy. Then his income goes out of the
country, and his fortune, invested in Aus-
tralia, becomes as much a debt owing by
Australia to England as if Australia had
borrowed the money from England and spent
it in beer. When £30,000 a year of Aus-
tralian rents begin to go to England because
the owner of the property has gone there to
look for a poor, mean, twopenny decoration
and be a hanger-on in British society, the
burden on this country is just the same
as if it had borrowed another million
at 3 per cent, and had to send
£30,000 a year interest to England and
it hasn’t the benefit and advantage of spend-
ing the million. The fact that London is
the centre of the Empire—the place where
the unpatriotic Henniker Heatons and
Samuel Wilsons and Daniel Coopers go,
and the place from which we receive many
inane small - beer cablegrams about their
doings—has cost this country probably some-
thing like a hundred millions already in
absentees’ incomes, and there is no visible
end to the drain. The wealthy Argentine
has no “mother-country ” to go to save his
own, and the saving thus effected makes up
for a vast amount of misgovernment and
corruption. This Commonwealth is trying to
live by fierce competition with a State that has
greater natural advantages, fewer scruples,
and fewer silly imported traditions, and
which, despite the wild-cat nature of many
Spanish-American Governments, is, in some
respects, far more wisely governed than
Australia. And as Britain, at all events,
has no sentimental ideas about giving a
commercial preference to the country which
sent all the four-and-sixpenny contingents,
the situation grows interesting.
The Money Power.
No man can earn a million of money honestly.
By the rarest of accidents, or by the luck of birth,
he may become possessed of millions without
actually wrecking other men’s fortunes or robbing
other men of their savings. But the exceptional
instances of honest millionairism are so rare that
it is a social axiom that because a man is a mil-
lionaire, therefore he is dishonest as a trader or
unscrupulous as a speculator. The average pluto-
crat is a pirate by profession. His accumulation
of millions is the sum of the losses of thousands of
his fellow-men. The wreck of a railway company,
the gerrymandering of a mining enterprise, the
cornering of a staple, the watering of a stock—
those are the operations out of which men make
millions, and in each case it is by strewing their
path with wrecks. Out of a port sail a hundred
rich merchantmen, and one pirate ; the haven of
prosperity is reached by the pirate alone. He has
made his millions—and his wrecks.
* * * *
When wealth tends to accumulate in the hands
of a few, it is a dangerous national symptom.
When to the hands of those few flows not only the
wealth, but the political and social power of a
community, it-is'a mark of doom. As an ex-
crescence on a nation, a superficial cancer, a
Elutocracy may be tolerable —unsightly, noxious,
ut not actually mortal. When it reaches to the
heart, invades the executive functions of National
Life, the nation must in time perish. For money
has no patriotism and no conscience. It regards
not duty, but dividends ; and its one aim is loot.
It is cosmopolitan, brushing asideall considerations
of race and religion. Love of country, courage,
justice, honor, mercy—as words it may juggle
with, as principles it knows nothing of. In the
pursuit of a high percentage it is relentlessly
savage; in the fear of a loss contemptibly
timorous.
* * » ♦
It is because every conclusion of reason and
every page of history, every result of deductive or
inductive reasoning points to a sure doom for the
nation which is dominated by a plutocracy, that
the outlook for England is at the present moment
so gloomy. She, conspicuous among all the
nations, is ruled by the money power. Her cities
are the offices, her fields the playgrounds, her
Cabinets the puppets of the world’s millionaires
—British, German, French, South African,
American millionaires. Even her memorable
churches are crowded by the world’s money-
changers. Millionaire Rhodes buys the policy
of a British Government on the Egyptian question
with a money gift. The same man of money,
with his German coadjutor Beit, embarks another
Government on the S’African war. Millionaires
from everywhere and anywhere dominate London
society and London journalism—such men as
the renegade Astor, Carnegie (whose iron works
in America flowed with the blood of
his laborers), Boss Croker (the Tammany
thief), Rothschild (the financial friend
°f. the present King). Sometime British
millionaire Hooley figures as the donor of com-
munion plate to the established English Church ;
American millionaire, Pierpont Morgan, pre-
sents to it an electric-lighting service for its chief
cathedral Millionaire Lipton represents the
Empire in international sport. In politics,
religion, society, art, sport, the millionaire is
supreme. It is not necessary for him to be a
British millionaire ; any sort of millionaire can
rule in England, devastate her fields for deer
parks, degrade her social relations, direct her
armies and navies to unjust murders, and desecrate
her churches. The typical English squire is Boss
Croker, the typical English society king Astor,
the typical English cabinet-maker Rhodes, the
typical English hierarch Pierpont Morgan. The
foreign millionaire rules in every department of
British life ; to British men is left only the
drudgery of obeying, of fighting, and wage-earn-
ing for their moneyed masters.
• * * •
And it is on this gold-cankered nation that Aus-
tralia is asked to pattern Tier life, to model her
politics, to fashion her national ideals. She
cannot do it and live.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Our Dear Fellow-Subject.
Dear Bulletin.—Bruce Smith’s United Aus-
tralia, which started off with such good inten-
tions, and has lately become violently Tory,
prints Judas Chamberlain’s speech to the
colonial Premiers whilst Record-Reigning in 1897
as a reason why we should still keep our arms wide
open to our dear friends and fellow-subjects, Ram
Chutney, Tin Yow, and co. Among Chamber-
lain’s reasons are the following, with italic
embellishments by Bruce Smith :
. . . We quite sympathise with the determination of
the white inhabitants of these colonies, which are in
comparatively close proximity to millions and hundreds of
millions of Asiatics, that there shall not be an influx of
people alien in civilisation, alien in religion, alien in cus-
toms, whose influx, moreover, would most seriously
interfere with the legitimate rights of the existing labor
population. An immigration of that kind must, I quite
understand, in the interests of the colonies, be prevented
at all hazards, and we shall not offer any opposition to
proposals intended with that object; but we ask you also
to bear in mind the traditions of the Empire, which
makes no distinction in favor of or against race or color ;
and to exclude, by reason of their color, or by reason of
their race, all Her Majesty’s Indian subjects, or even a f l
Asiatics, would be an act so offensive to them- that it
The Cardinal’s Capital.
At the opening of St. Francis’ bazaar Cardinal
Moran said:—
I observe that there are some people who desire to have
a capital established at Tumut and elsewhere, but for my
part I look forward to seeing it established at Eden-
Bombala, and will not be satisfied until it is placed there.
The Bulletin speaks gently—
Though it might take offence,
And speak irreverently
About your Eminence.
The fact is that its staff is
At very great expense
For building sites : the laugh is
Still with your Eminence.
The sites are at Bombala ;
The staff makes solemn vow,
By Odin and by Allah,
Someone shall suffer now.
“And now”—the staff is speaking—
“ We paid him, days and nights,
The Agent who went seeking
For pretty building-sites.
He found them—oh, he found them —
And they were bright and fair,
A green ring was around them,
Above them—golden air.
And everybody will side
With people in the know—
A church was on the hillside,
A convent down below.
So Editor, and Foreman,
And Little Office Boy,
And Office Poet—poor man—
Planked down their coin with joy.
We were a cheerful party,
Baptists and Anglicans,
And Papists blithe and hearty,
And Presbyterians.
We might have —yes, by thunder —
Achieved a loot immense,
Gone braceletted with plunder—
But for your Eminence.
You said that at Bombala
The capital should be —
By Odin and by Allah
That very thing said we.
You little know what Fate meant
When we should thus agree ;
Your Cardinalesque statement
Is charged with Destiny.
The Manager looks starkly
On bards in his employ;
The Editor glares darkly
Upon the Office-Boy.
And in our prideful office
No man has confidence;
No man will trust another—
Your fault, O Eminence !
You spoke your speech divinely—
The keen old saints spoke thus—
You praised Bombala finely—
But you have ruined Us.
We see a black crowd raving
Around in Wynyard-square,
And Dill Macky a-waving
An Orange flag in air.
‘Make it,’ the crowd is shrieking,
‘ In Hell or Booligal;
But never in Bombala—
The Cardinal’s Capital.’”
CREEVE ROE.


would be most painful, I am quite certain, to Her
Majesty to have to sanction it. Consider what has been
Drought to your notice during your visit to this country.
The United Kingdom owns as its brightest and greatest
dependency that enormous Empire of India, with
300,000,000 of subjects, who are as loyal to the Crown as
you are yourselves, and among them are hundreds and
thousands of men who are every wliit as civilised, as we
are ourselves, who are, if that be anything, better born, in
the sense that they have older traditions and older
families, who are men of wealth, men of cultivation,
men of distinguished valor, men who have brought whole
armies and placed them at the service of the Queen, and
have, in times of great difficulty and trouble—such, for
instance, as on the occasion of the Indian Mutiny— saved
the Empire by their loyalty. I say—you, who have seen
all this, cannot be willing to put upon’ those men a slight
which I think is absolutely unnecessary for your purpose,
and which would be calculated to provoke ill-feeling, dis-
content, irritation, and would be most unpalatable to the
feelings, not only of Her Majesty, but of all Her people.
And why, for the two hundred dozenth time,
doesn’t the brown Indian fellow-subject have the
same self-governing rights as the white English-
man, Canadian, Australian, Tasmanian, and
Maorilander, if he is as loyal as they, and as
civilised ? Why doesn’t he have a vote and a Par-
liament ? Why isn’t he allowed to be a general or
a colonel in the Imperial army, or even the Indian
army, instead of being confined to the inferior
grades of the service? Why does the Bi-itish
Government treat him with contempt, by reason
of his color and his race, seeing that he is such a
beautiful character, and seeing it would break
Chamberlain’s heart to put a slight on him in any
way, or regard him in any way as if he was of lower
degree than the white Britisher? If Chamber-
lain treated the Englishman as the Indian
fellow-subject is treated—well, the English people
would hang Chamberlain. They beheaded
Charles I, but beheading has gone out of fashion.
—X.B.
♦
The Hindu as Harvester.
The wisdom of the Federal Labor party in agree-
ing to accept a system of alien immigration
restriction which was somewhat lacking in brutal
candor, but had the merit of coming into force at
once, is shown very clearly by the appearance of
the Hindu as a harvester in the mallee districts
of Victoria. At the township of Beulah there are
now from 100 to 150 Hindus in regular employ-
ment on the farms; and other townships in the
Victorian mallee are almost as badly affected by
the colored labor curse. The Hindu works from
early morn to dewy eve, on two “ meals ” a day—
the meals being wheaten pancakes occasionally
relieved by curried rice ; he sleeps anywhere and
accepts a wage which makes white labor competi-
tion impossible. So the white laborer tramps the
country idle, whilst the swart, sweated Hindu
toils for leave to live in the cowshed on a diet of
Johnny cake, and the hope of acquiring, after
years of patience, a fortune of £l4 11s. 2|d, and
retiring to his own country to live a life of dignified
ease. The head man of the Hindu workers at
Beulah stated to a newspaper interviewer that
life there was so pleasant to the Hindu mind
“that he had apprised his countrymen in India of
this new field of labor, and as a consequence, an
influx of them may be expected in the near
future.” But if the Federal Alien Immigration
Restriction Act is administered fairly (and the
Labor party may be expected to see to that, even
if the Cabinet which includes C. O. Kingston
should incline to be wobbly) this influx will not
be. Every Hindu will be politely refused per-
mission to land because of his lamentable and
unfortunate ignorance of the language of William
Shakespeare and the philosophical terms of
Herbert Spencer. And, as the saddened men
of color turn back to India, white Australians can
congratulate themselves that they are able to
stem the black tide, even though it is with a polite
pretence; and that they are not obliged to allow
the Hindu harvester to enter in hordes whilst
arguing with Mr. Chamberlain about the right
to reject a colored fellow-subject with a rude
remark instead of a gentle equivocation.
♦
‘ The Bulletin’s” Foreign-Trade
Correspondent.
The Bulletin receives this letter from an old and
valued but needlessly excited correspondent:
Re Bulletin remarks on Westralian Worker (B.
21/12/’Ol, page 9, cols. 3 and 4): — . . . “ how we are to
have . . . fair play to all industries unless we keep out
cheap “ foreign goods by a Protective tariff.” The foreign
traders don’t believe that a Protective tariff does the
workers any good. And they think more revenue should
be derived from the land, and less from the Customs.
They think a Protective tariff is an exploded fallacy, and
are lost in wonder that. The Bulletin should still cling to
it —amazed that so astute a paper should not see through
the highly artistic method of plucking the geese without
making them sing out. Foreign traders are foreign
traders because they don’t see any means of profitably
getting rid of our surplus produce otherwise than by
means of foreign trade.
The handy and obvious gibe that when the valued
correspondent becomes as astute as The Bulletin
he will also be a Protectionist may be taken as
read. ■ The above letter shows the Foreign-trader
at his own valuation, as the unselfish person who
isn’t seeking his own profit in any way, but is
solely concerned in finding a profitable market for
this country’s surplus products. And if it was the
fact that the countries from which we buy largely
under a Foreign-trade policy were necessarily the
countries which buy largely from us, and that
they buy from us because, under a blessed Foreign-
trade system, we buy from them, then the argu-
ment wouldn’t have the big leak it now possesses.
But taking Coghlan’s figures for 1899, it appears
that we sold over £6,100,000 worth of goods
in that year to France and Belgium, and
only took from them £900,000 worth. Also,
we bought nearly £400,000 worth from Scan-
dinavia, and only sold to Scandinavia £BO worth,
and so on. The list is dotted all over with
similar discrepancies. Also, according to the
latest returns, the United States bought only
£174,000,000 worth in the year from the rest of the
world, yet sold it £283,000,000 worth ; the States
have done this sort of thing for years, and have
paid off their external debts with the differences,
and are now beginning to be great lenders of
money to other nations. A country doesn’t buy
from another because the other buys from it; it
buys because the other country has something to
sell that it wants. The Foreign-trade principle
doesn’t improve the outlet for our products in the
least. N.S.W. certainly had Freetrade (of a
kind), and so had England. But Jones, the
wool-spinner of Bradford, didn’t buy N.S.W. wool
out of gratitude because N.S.W. took ironwork
from Brown, of Middlesboro’, whom he had
most likely never heard of. Probably '99 per
cent, of the French manufacturers who take so
much of our wool don’t even know whether
we buy anything from France or not—their
funeral is that there is a market in France for
woollen goods, and our wool is good for the pur-
pose. Britain buys from the United States six
times as much as it sells to the States ; and it sells
to Java eight times as much as it buys from Java,
and it is so all the world over. The boss Foreign-
trader, who is generally an importer pure and
simple, and doesn’t care a straw how. the export
trade goes, is given to professing that he doesn’t
want a system which will enable him to fill the
country with foreign boots because he lives by it
but because, when we purchase boots from Brown
of Nottingham, Jones, the Bradford wool-spinner,
gets to hear of it, and buys our wool out of grati-
tude, when he would otherwise rather do without
wool than have anything to do with us. It is a
tender little legend of pati'iotism, good-feeling,
and tearful gratitude, but it is too foolish to bear
inspection.
$
“ Leading ” Clergymen and Other
Clergymen.
A great effort is being made in England to dis-
count the importance of the protest against the
present stage of the Boer war signed by over
5000 clergymen. It is explained that whilst these
clergymen, representing presumably the bulk of
their 5000 congregations, signed a solemn protest
against the war, a gz-eater number of parsons
didn’t sign it, and this greater number included
all the “leading men.” The last part of the
statement may well be believed. The “leading
parson ” is generally the parson who goes with the
crowd, the fat, shiny-faced parson with a gift
of eloquence, or a capacity for small-beer
humor, and a profound respect for person
ages. These sort have formed the Sa’nhedrin
of every sect since the days when Pontius
Pilate was Procurator in Judaea. The really
earnest parson rarely, by any chance, be-
comes a “leading” man. But the argument
that the weight of a petition’ is to be gauged by
the number of persons who do not sign it is of
value in showing how desperate is the effort on
the pro-Gore side to muster up even a semblance
of a reason for its attitude. That a parson signed
the petition in question showed that he had come
to a stern conclusion —probably with a great deal
of pain and reluctance—that in this matter his
country was in the wrong, and must be told so,
despite the contumely and insults of Jingoes.
That a parson did not sign it might show that he
approved thoroughly of the farm-burning, and
the concentration camps, and the hangings,
and so on; on the other hand, it might
show that he was too easy-going or lazy
to bother about the painful issue ; or that he.
agreed with the petition but hadn’t the courage to
sign it; or that he had made up his mind to sign
it, and had put the matter off until it was too late :
matters which can be done any day are often done
no day. In short, the parson who didn’t sign
proves nothing conclusively. The only possible
answer to the declaration of conscience by those
who did sign would be a memorial by an equal
number stating that they cordially approved of
Ketchener and all his works. And even that
would prove nothing that is not already known.
There is no claim from the side of humanity in
this controversy that England is united in opposi-
tion to the war ; it is fully recognised that what
Ibsen called “ the damned, compact, foolish
majority ” is still pro-Gore. What is claimed is
that there is a vast, intelligent, patriotic minority,
a minority led by distinguished English states-
men, philosophers, soldiers, and clergymen,
utterly opposed to the disastrous Chamberlain
policy. There can be no explaining away of the
clergymen’s petition to make it of no value in
relation to that fact.
--
The Fountain of Honor.
‘‘There is reason to believe,” says a daily
newspaper, “that the State Governments will
offer a stout resistance to the Commonwealth
Government should that authority attempt to ar-
rogate to itself the sole right of nominations for
titular distinction, as it has been suggested it will
do.” For once The Bulletin is heart and soul
with the State Governments against this effort at
trespass on the part of the Federal administration.
The State Governments have had to relegate to the
Australian legislature much of the really important
and national work of governing. They have Mien
left, certainly, with many great duties and oppor-
tunities. A State Government can still establish
a sinking-fund for the repayment of the public
debt, a public works fund for the construction
of future works out of revenue, a State Bank,
a decent Local Government system, a depart-
ment for the supervision of exports, a sane and
honest system for the resumption of large estates,
a State Life Assurance Office, and many
other things. It can tax absentees, it can
abolish the deficit, it can rebuild Sydney,
it can obliterate its own idiotic Upper
House. But, as nobody dreams of doing these
things, the State Government is now, by its own
choice, an obscure potterer among drains and
J’s.P., and the business of urging the Imperial
Government to decorate stodgy citizens with un-
meaning gauds should be left among the drains
and J’s.P., where it naturally belongs. Exactly
what share Australian politicians have in recom-
mending the shedding on this country of C.M.G’s.,
K.C.M.G’s. and other titular distinctions (of
value in distinguishing commonplace politicians
from others) we have not the means of knowing ;
but, whether small or great, it should certainly
be kept in the hands of the State Governments
in preference to handing it over to the Federal
authority. The transference would involve an
infection at the heart of the nation’s political
system, with the truckling meanness, the petty
parochialism, the slobbery snobbishness, and the
disloyalty to Australia which mark the intrigues
for English “titular distinction.” It is better to
keep the poison at the limbs. In future, perhaps,
under a sound system of Local Government, the
K.C.M.G. business may be still more fittingly
relegated to the municipal councils. Then the
suburban mayor will recommend his town clerk
for the C.M.G., and his nuisances inspector to be
a Privy Councillor, and titular distinctions will
have reached their proper level.
♦
The Helot Contingent.
Premier Barton, as a sort of balm to his con-
science, smarting at the thought of a broken pro-
mise, is surrounding the Henniker Heaton
Federalcohentingent with asmuch of tardiness and
reluctance and mean condition as possible. Evi-
dently his heart is not in the work, and by some
curious process of reasoning he takes comfort from
the thought that if he is sending—at Henniker
Heaton’s dictation—another cohentingent, he is
at any rate sending it ungraciously and surlily, as
if it were any relief to the Boers to have their
farms burned down with a scowl instead of
with a cheerful whoop. And the painful
efforts of Premier Barton to show that his heart
is not in the work, and that he is now kicking
himself vigorously because he had not the courage
to absolutely repudiate the Heaton impertinence,
are operating to make this last cohentingent
about the meanest and most degrading of the lot.
Australia is not to pay a penny piece to the men
—out of borrowed or any other money ; she is not
to find so much as a shirt for them, though she
will pocket the profits made out of fitting them up
at England’s expense; she expressly and speci-
fically repudiates all responsibility for finding
wooden legs and glass eyes for those who are
maimed —they must look to England for their
glass eyes and wooden legs. There is absolutely
no pretence of an “Imperial spirit” prompting
this contingent; the men go to fight England’s
battles, not “the Empire’s,” and are told so
with brutal directness. They occupy precisely
the.same position as the German mercenaries re-
cruited to fight against the American colonists,
and probably they will mostly be actuated by
somewhat the same motive. Life as a soldier
promises 355. a week with rations and clothes, and
the prospect of loot, whilst life as a civilian
doesn’t hold out half those material advant-
ages. When the Australian States sent con-
tingents which they equipped themselves, and
paid for (out of borrowed money) themselves,
there was some show of “ patriotism ” and “Im-
perialism ” —misguided sentiments, perhaps, in
the circumstances, but still having some semblance
of dignity. Now, Australia is put in the same
position as India, a place where helot soldiers may
be recruited for England’s army, soldiers in
whose fate we expressly repudiate all responsi-
bility, and to whom we don’t even hold out the
prospect of a billet on the trams when they have
helped to save the Empire.
4
Calico Jimmy on the Tariff.
An editor of Sydney D.T. was once called to
accouzit by an indignant theatrical manager who
complained that on his reviving a certain melo-
drama it had been condemned as just trash
—badly conceived and badly executed—whilst
three months before, when lie produced the same
play with the same caste, it had been described
as “from a literary point of view admirable,
strong in dialogue, effective in plot.” The
weary editor finally murmured—“ Well, we’ve
said the thing is utterly bad, and we’ve said
it is admirable. I don’t see how you can accuse
us of having any prejudice on the subject! ” The
same sort of “lack of prejudice” marks the
paper’s comments on the tariff, which change
with each succeeding day. Quotes :
Dec. 3 : “The actual experience of the tariff for the
months of October and November indicates that it would,
if passed in its present form, yield a million and a half
more than the Govt, estimated for the current year, and
between two and three millions more than the estimate
for what George Turner calls a normal year. These
are miscalculations worthy of the financial capacity of
this Ministry of lawyers.”
Deo. 14 (after changes which the D.T. generally de-
scribed as likely to bring in more revenue) : “ There is
no possibility of the tariff yielding what had been ex-
pected from it.”
Dec. 24 : “ Although the tariff isbeing very considerably
cut down it does not follow that the revenue will be
materially less than that predicted by George Turner.”
Dec. 30 : The coming conference of Premiers can hardly
pass without reference to the estimates framed by
George Turner, and the manner in which these estimates
have already been jeopardised by the tariff changes in-
introduced.
Yes ! No ! ! Yes !!! No !!!!
M'Culloch, Victoria’s Minister of Public Works,
whose efforts to grab a title are responsible for the
Commonwealth contingent for hen-roost robbing
in South Africa, is the individual who plumes
himself on the fact that he threatened to leave
George Turner’s Cabinet if that shabbily-
clothed politician did not send off the first Vic.
contingent. He probably thought he was due for
a title over that piece of miserable business. It
didn’t come, and then he got himself appointed
chairman of the Cabinet committee that made
preparations for the ducal grovel. The com-
mittee developed a charwoman’s capacity for
muddle, and was a conspicuous failure, and
the whole of the work had to be borne by
a Parliamentary clerk. Peacock and Turner
pushed McCulloch’s little barrow to some
extent, but still the silly bauble did not turn
up. M'Culloch has long been burning to send
another contingent; it is the easiest way
nowadays to catch the eye of Chamberlain.
For months past he has been urging Forrest
and Barton to offer more troops to carry on the
wonderful capture of poultry in South Africa, but
those wobbly Ministers held out against the idea.
Then McCulloch invoked the aid of his pal,
David Syme. Letters appeared regularly in the
Age from the pen of McCulloch. Everything
failed until Henniker Heaton put in an appear-
ance. McCulloch at once froze on to him, and
Heaton sent a cablegram to Chamberlain,
setting out that McCulloch had informed him
Australia was bursting to send another contingent.
McCulloch’s authority to speak for Australia
may be judged from the fact that Heaton had
to spend half a sov. explaining who McCulloch
was.
4
It has been proved conclusively that the Second
N.S.W. Contingent was only promised 4s. 6d. per
day in all (3s. 4d. per day from N.S.W., and
Is. 2d. from Britain), and as the fact that the
First Contingent got ss. Bd. per day by an error
has nothing to do with the case, Premier See
finally refuses to give the second batch of farm-
burners anything more than the price agreed
upon. Wherefore some individuals are now ti-ying
a supremely silly and impudent bluff by threaten-
ing legal proceedings. And Walsh, M.L.A., is re-
ported as having said that “if it is intended to
deprive returned soldiers of the pay they expected
to get the Government deserves condemnation.”
Why does it deserve condemnation ? The State
spends immense sums on police, gaols, and law
officers for the express purpose of depriving people
of what they expected to get, and very often
when a man is coming out of a window with less
than half of what he expected to get, he has even
that taken from him by the “ cop ” outside. Yet
nobody condemns the Government for depriving
these persons of what they expected to get.
♦
The Victorian Assembly allowed Peacock’s
Ministry to dribble into recess. There is a sort of
understanding that he is to reconstruct before
meeting Parliament again. After a year’s experi-
ence of a silly like Gurk, a mental loafer like
Trenwith, a dull mediocrity like M'Culloch,
and the rest, it can easily be imagined that poor
Peacock is only too anxious to reconstruct.
While one of the attacks against the Government
was being organised there was much talk of
Ministers handing in their resignations to their
chief. They actually signed a document setting
out their willingness to do so ; but that is all
ancient history, and the men who rushed to tell
Peacock that lie could have their portfolios are
now the ones who will be most difficult of remo-
val. For the past month three at least of the
Cabinet have been holding little conferences on
their own in order to formulate a scheme for
frustrating the reconstruction idea. They see that
if they are thrown out of the Ministry they will
be politically dead. “Let us all go down to-
gether” is their cry. Of course Peacock could
hand in the joint Ministerial resignation, but if he
does that he is politically damned. Probably he
will meet Parliament in May with the same old
incompetent crowd, and probably he will go under
about the second week of the new session. Then,
even if he reconstructs, there is always the
question whether any Ministry led by Peacock
could be competent—whether the head isn’t just
as foolish as the tail. And incompetence at the
thick end of the animal is a vastly more serious
matter than a similar affliction at the thin end.
A profound inability to understand their true
position appears to afflict some State politicians
and newspapers nowadays. Within the last few
days we have heard of State Premiers who said,
or are credited with having said, that if the
Federal Government didn’t move in the matter of
despatching another contingent, they would per-
sonally take the matter up—apparently not realis-
ing that any person outside of, or without the
authority of, the Federal Government, who goes
raising troops in the Commonwealth is just an
ordinary law-breaker, like any other drunk. And
the Brisbane Courier is still under the impres-
sion that, though the Kanaka Bill was passed by
the Australian Parliament, and though the
Queensland members were mostly in its favor,
still some kind of outrage was committed in not
postponing the Royal assent in order that the
State Government, which has no earthly
concern with the matter, had time to argue
the point and urge the Crown to overrule the
people’s representatives. The Courier, is quite
violent over this matter, and lashes out blindly
with its umbrella in all directions. Yet suppose
it had been a case of the Brisbane Legislature
passing a shindykit railway job by a huge
majority, and one or two Queensland electorates,
or a few municipal councils, demanding that the
royal assent should be withheld till they had time
to see Edward YII. about the matter! What
kind of reception would the Courier have given
to that modest proposal ?
♦
One Sincook has been writing in an exultant
strain to Melbourne Age, pointing out that in
Victoria only one person out of every 1031 is in
gaol, while in N.S.W. one person in 721 occupies
that undesirable public building. The figures are
correct enough, but the person with a name like
an offence and a rooster would do well to say as
little as possible about it. The administration of
the law in N.S.W. is lax enough, but there is a
suspicion that in Victoria it is very much worse.
The push which terrorises Carlton would make a
considerable addition to tbe gaol population if it
was where it ought to be, but so long as
the J.P. fines it ss. it won’t do so. A certain
influential solicitor would have probably in-
creased the gaol population by one per
million for a good many years if the Crown
hadn’t dropped a large number of glaring
cases against him; as it is, his release will pre-
sently reduce the gaol population somewhat. If,
say, 100 of the notorious characters of ’93 had got
their deserts, and were still getting them, the
Vic. gaol population would go up to one in 920
right off. In Victoria, the slipshod J.P. has
powers which his N.S.W. brother doesn’t possess,
to release the offender without sentence, and lie
uses them so extensively—often for the purpose of
placating people who buy groceries from him —
that one-third of the persons accused in Victoria
are turned loose by the J.P., while only one-sixth
get away in that semi-official fashion in N.S.W.
There are two ways of keeping down the gaol
population—by not having criminals, or by having
them and not punishing them. Victoria," largely
by reason of its J.P., and to some small extent
by reason of the breakable character of Pentridge,
has got the second way very badly.
4.
As a gaol the Geelong (Vic.) institution seems to
have some humorous features. Here is a list of
happenings there, printed by a Melbourne paper :
Prisoner Ramage assaults a sick wardsman in the
hospital; no punishment.
Ramage throws a candle at the Governor, and uses
obscene language on the 16th of October. Candle again
given to Ramage, but no punishment.
On the 4th of November, 1900, Ramage called warder
and Governor robbers ; no punishment.
Ramage throws his boot at the Governor ; no punish-
ment.
Ramage, at tobacco distribution, uses obscene language
to chief warder, but no notice taken.
Prisoners Gamble and Brown rang the alarm bell and
jumped the fence, but warders were ordered not to inter-
fere with them, as it only annoyed them.
Four prisoners carrying on unmentionable practices ;
a fight takes place between two of them, but they are
let off, to hush the matter up.
Prisoners Morgan, Walker, Hassett, Ramage, and
another partially intoxicated nearly every night for a
couple of months.
Geelong gaol is the place where two men have
lately committed suicide and others attempted it,
but which Inspector-General Evans says is
“ quite in its normal condition, though there was
bound to be a little grumbling among invalids in
confinement.” Evidently its great object in life
just now is to humor Ramage so that he won’t be
tempted to depart to a better world. Prisoner
Ramage seems to be essential to Geelong gaol’s
happiness.
4
From a sketch published in Sydney Telegraph,
it seems that the O’Sullivan contemplates erect-
ing as the new Sydney railway-station a building
which will combine all the salient features of the
Coliseum, St. Paul’s, the Kremlin, and a Yankee
sky-scraper in one magnificent, impressive, and
O’Sullivanesque whole. The cost of a decent
railway-station without any extraordinary frills
was originally estimated at £233,000. The O’Sul-
livan “ monumental work of stateliness and
beauty,” carrying out on lines of proper grandeur
the idea of Sydney Facing the Botany Boiling-
down Works, is reckoned to cost from £400,000 to
.£500,000. Of course, the money will come out of
loan votes, and, as the Railway Commissioners
are careful to explain that the new station will not
add a penny-piece to the railway revenue, it will
be of the co ientingentors’ tombstone order of
permanent and reproductive work. But, then, it
will show what a great country N.S. Wales is.
The question of exchange is one which greatly
excites the N.S.W. country’ civil servant. At
present the Crown Lands agents, C.’sP.S,, and
other public officials banished into the holes and
corners of the State have little prospect but that
of a transfer to a still more dreadful post than
the one occupied. They all dream of an exchange
to the metropolis, but the dream is seldom
realised. The wail from the wilderness evokes
little save barren sympathy, for the city officers
know when they are well off, and but few will
consent to take a country billet, even with promo-
tion thrown in. And the city officer is right up
against the ear of the powers that be, while the
country one can only appeal by letter. The Public
Service Association is largely supported by the
country offices, and a delegation of these dried-up
exiles recently met the council of the Association
on the subject. The country men want a compul-
sory system of exchanges whereby the public ser-
vants of Broken Hill, Walgett, Balranald, Mil-
parinka and other scenes of horror may periodi-
cally exchange the cold goat and onions of those
parts for the flesh pots of Sydney. The
idea has much to recommend it. It would
greatly reduce the number of lunatics in the ser-
vice ; nobody can be a public servant or anybody
else for many years in the faz-thest Out-Back
without wrecking his intellect. It would spread
the blessings of the newest metropolitan collar
and cuff and boiled shirt in an uncivilised land ;
it would enable city public officials to improve
their knowledge of the country, and country ones
to get their beer once in their lives for 3d. All
these are matters worth consideration.


The equitable life assurance society
of the United States.
LIBERAL TERMS TO AGENTS OF GOOD STANDING
In order to improve the position of its Agents in Australia, and to better conserve
the business, the Equitable now offers RENEWAL CONTRACTS to
first-class agents, thus giving them a pecuniary interest in their business for
several years, instead of for only one year as at present.
For particulars, refer to
S. W. D’ARCY-IRVINE, Manager for New South Wales and Queensland,
Equitable Building, Sydney ; or to
G. G. McCOLL, Manager for Victoria and Tasmania,
Equitable Building, Melbourne.
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
THE NEW
MILITARY
FIELD GLASS.
Very Powerful. As user! tv.
Officers of the British Arm\
in South Africa. Quickly
Focussed. Magnifying 5 times.
In Solid leather Sling Case.
65/-, Aluminium 85/-.
WOOD, “The Optician,”
Only Address in N.S. W.—
299 GEORQE-ST. (op . Hunter-st.), SYDNEY
. . AND . .
Equitable Buildings, Elizabeth-St., Melbourne.
Scod Os yoOr
IF you send a Photograph of yourself (or friend) to Mr.
Mark Blow, The Crown Studios, Sydney, and also
send the following “ COUPON,” he will reproduce from
the Photo, a
Very Beautiful and Artistically-Finished
Pcrtpapcpt Cplargerpcpt
in Monochrome, equalling a rich Steel-Plate Engraving,
handsomely mounted on an Indian Tinted Plate, sunk
mount, and as good in every way as Enlargements now
being supplied at from 30s. to 50s. each ; and will care-
fully pack it and send it, Parcel Post Paid, to any address
in Australia, Tasmania or New Zealand for 10s. 6d.
YOUR PHOTO. RETURNED WITH ORDER.
Cut out the following Coupon and send it with your
Photo.
[Bulletin] COUPON.
To M. BLOW (Photographer to His Excellency
the Governor-General, Lord Hopetoun),
The Crown Studios, George Street Sydney.
Please have the enclosed Photograph Enlarged
and Mounted, as per this Special Offer, and forward
it to me, carriage paid, to the following address, for
which I enclose 10s. 6d. in full payment.
Name .
Address
Write your Name on the back of the Photograph, to
avoid errors.
The Name of the Crown Studios is a guarantee of
Good Work and a Faithful Reproduction.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “ Alice in Wonderland.”
Lyckum “ Greed of Gold.”
Her Majesty's Grand Opera Season.
Palace “ Professor’s Love Story.”
Criterion “For the Sake of a Woman."
Empire Fuller Co.
Tivoli Rickards’Co.
Queen’s Hall Montgomery’s Entertainer*.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “Aladdin.”
Her Majesty’s “ San Toy.”
Theatre Royal. “ The Span of Life.”
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
Gaiety Theatre Maggie Moore Co.
Bijou World’s Entertainers.
On New Year’s Eve such of the population
as had not bought a squeaker and a bag of flour,
and which refrained from making night and
Sydney hideous with weird noises and mixed
drinks, watched “La Boheme” at Her Majesty’s.
“La Boheme” is what is known as the “modern
opera ” —a tale of squalid poverty, mirthless, piti-
ful humor, and ghastly disease, with glorious
orchestral accompaniments distributed through it
like gems scattered on a sandhill. As Marcel, the
Eainter, Bozzoli both acted and sang well. Dani’s
igh, ringing notes were all right, but his
rotundity did not harmonise with the lack of sus-
tenance that yawned right through the piece.
There was an infinite tenderness about his love
scene with Mimi in the Bohemians’ garret. As
the love-sick, consumption-stricken young woman,
Miss Dalia.Bassich was calculated to rouse public
opinion more effectively on the necessity of grap-
pling at once with the tuberculosis fiend than a
whole college of lecturers and experts crying in a
wilderness of daily papers. N.S.W. Board of
Health would, if it were not a dead ass dreaming
it is a Pegasus, subsidise Manager Williamson to
play “Boheme” for a hundred nights. Miss
Dalia’s make-up would do the rest, and the
country would be dotted over with sanatoria.
** » *
Opera “ La Gioconda ” (the Ballad Singer)
staged for the first time in Sydney this generation,
ought to be seen at least twice. The vocal music,
the unfolding of the play, its environment, and
more than all else, the ghosts that arise of that
mysterious, proud, treacherous Bride of the
Adriatic, demand such attention that one loses
some of the splendid orchestral music. And
Signor Hazon’s orchestra deserves an undis-
tracted, undivided hearing. The libretto was
inspired by Hugo’s “Tyrant of Syracuse,” but it
is typically mediaeval and Italian in its love and
lust, its superstition, and its demoniacal revenges.
The music has nothing of the heaviness or
sonibreness of the tragedy. To many it will recall
Gounod, and it is full of the brightness, strength,
and emotionalism of Italian melody. Out in the
water-streets a regatta is taking place, and up and
down against the background of Ducal Palace and
Giant’s Staircase a spy of thelnquisition is striding
and singing mischief. The Lion’s Mouth gapes in
the courtyard, inviting letters that may take friend
or foe across the Bridge of Sighs. A ballad singer
(La Gioconda) comes along, leading her blind
mother; and the spy, who loves the girl, grows
oppressive in bis love-making. The blind woman
calls upon the Virgin for help. The courtyard
fills with the populace, who carry the man of the
winning gondola shoulder-high. In the ruck is
the vanquished man, carrying an oar and an awful
frown. No defeat in those days could be fair, and
the spy whispers to the ex-champion something
like tins: “It wasn’t the sliding-seat of your out-
rigger that stuck : it was the blind woma#who
bewitched you.” And the ex-champion’s backers
rush to kill the “witch.” She is saved by Laura,
the wife of the Grand Inquisitor, who accepts in
acknowledgment the blind woman’s rosary. Enzo
Grimaldi, the betrothed of La Gioconda, is a prince
(under the ban of the Holy Inquisition), who
has had to turn fisherman. In better days he
was to have wedded Laura, and now
when he sees her again be desires to be off
with the new love and on with the old. That
night the spy, Bernaba, brings the willing Laura
to the prince-fisherman’s boat (after he has
thoughtfully dropped a letter into the Lion’s
Mouth, acquainting the duped husband with his
wife’s rendezvous). He has also invited LaGioconda
to this water-party, to let her see her lover em-
bracing another woman. The street-singer would
have ended the frisk with a stiletto, but she sees
her rosary on Laura’s breast, and, instead of a
knife, she gives warning of the husband’s ap-
proach. Laura flees, gets home and into gorgeous
raiment. With deadly politeness her husband
hands her a phial of poison, and says, in effect,
“ I have always anticipated your every want.
Now, just look at this elegant coffin ! (he draws
aside a curtain, displaying a catafalque). Oblige
me by filling it.” He goes out and the street-
singer slips in and exchanges the poison for the
equivalent of a mediaeval sulphonal powder. In
this, the third act, is the famous ballet, “Dance
of the Hours ”; the Hall of Gold in the Ducal
Palace is full of guests, and a grand ball is in pro-
gress. The Grand Inquisitor draws aside the cur-
tain, and shows the horrified guests the (ap-
parently) dead body of his wife. This is one of
the very few grand operas in which a deserving
person gets a morsel of happiness at the close.
The fisherman-prince and the Grand Inquisitor’s
wife elope joyfully together. La Gioconda stabs
herself in order to avoid keeping a promise to the
spy, but the spy laughs last, and says “ I strangled
your mother ! ”
« • • *
Signora Benedetto, as La Gioconda, was a
little foggy-voiced in the first act, but as the opera
grew her volume of voice increased, and her acting
of the part was so good that one forgot her failure
to look it. Her singing of the “ Suicide’s Aria ”
was the triumph of the evening. Bozzoli and
Larizza, as the Spy and Enzo Grimaldi respec-
tively, acted the strong men under the weight
of the opera. In the great duet in the first act
this pair of musical Sandows had long rests while
the audience applauded. Signorina Marcomini
looked and acted the noble’s bride to a finish, and
her mezzo-soprano was in good order. Signorina
Marchi was so pathetic a figure as the blind
woman that many of the audience will drop
pennies to blind street musicians whilst the
memory of “La Gioconda ” remains.
** * *
Certain additions have been made to
“ Alice in Wonderland,” at Sydney Royal, since
this darkly condemnatory paper wrote of it last.
In its original state it gave the impression of being
very brief in the tail, but it has been expanded by
the addition of a harlequinade and the introduc-
tion of two irrelevant but active brethren, Kelly
and Ashby, late of the Lee-Rial company. One
result is that the Gryphon and the deserving
Mock Turtle, and the Mad Hatter, are to some
extent, forced into the background, and it seems
possible that new and irrelevant items will con-
tinue gathering round them till they and the
ninetieth Lobster and the 116th Rabbit are
almost lost to view. At all events, “ Alice in
Wonderland ” looks a considerably more enduring
show than it did when The Bulletin turned the
tap of reprobation on it in last issue.
** * *
The children, and the big dog, and the
subordinate members of Mr. Arnold’s co. have
played to crowded houses since Boxing Night at
Sydney Palace, and the mystery of the good
behaviour of the two babies is darker than ever.
There is no record of their ever having howled, or
had a tooth, or otherwise misbehaved a single
night. Little Coquette has also maintained her
pristine charm, dancing and acting like a fairy.
But not to put too great a strain on these amiable
young persons, or perhaps to show that the adult
is not yet played out, “The Professor’s Love
Story ” will be staged this Saturday. This Barrie
comedy is new to Sydney, but all accounts of it,
as played by Mr. Arnold’s co., are highly favor-
able.
** # *
At Sydney Queen’s Hall, Edmund Mont-
gomery’s entertainment has a new item, “ A
Mexican Bull Fight.” Marguerite Dorris, Harry
Hall and others help along the variety part of the
performance. The illustrated song seems to have
come to stay. The usual pantomimic representa-
tion of ‘ ‘ Red Riding Hood ” concludes the
performance.
** * *
“ For the Sake of a Woman,” at the
Criterion, keeps its hold on public opinion by
means of its red and blue chair, an abduction or
two, and the breakage of the bank windows by
an enraged populace that can’t get its money
back. Laurence Dunbar continues to enact the
hero who crumples up slowly under the weight
of his Past, the rage of the populace, and the
bitter scorn of a heartbroken wife in an elaborate
frock. _ Miss Helene Burdette, as Lady Clare,
gets paid the Wages of Sin, as usual, by being
murdered, but as the Wages of Virtue in Ida
Gresham’s case consist in being nearly electro-
cuted, there is a lack of solid and reliable moral
in Holloway’s production.
** * *
At the Lyceum (Sydney) “ Greed of Gold ”
still holds the hoards. Mee Chow’s opium den
shows the Chinkie at his worst, and a monkey at
its best, and the sagacity of that latter animal in
refusing to kill the son of the man who gave it a
cup of water remains as unnatural as ever. So
does the intellectual acumen of the other char-
acters in understanding what the dumb man
means when he merely claws at the air in a futile
manner.
** * *
Charlie Campbell’s Minstrel and Vaude-
ville co., at the Alhambra Music Hall (Sydney),
gave a varied performance the night this writer
happened to be there, and handed round a pro-
gramme that didn’t match. That pink fragment
of reading matter stated, amongst other weather
prophecies, that Miss Eva Ward would sing
“The Skipper’s Daughter,” but instead she
gave “Please, Mr. Conductah” in a manner
that was not quite equal to Melba’s. The per-
formances were, as a rule, faint outline sketches
of bygone Tivoli items. The gentleman who in-
troduced the performers spoke in a loud and
bitter voice when he said “Miss Blank will now
favor us with Blank ”; it was like a condensed
chapter from the Lamentations of the low-spirited
prophet who did the Solomon Eagle business in
old Jerusalem.
** * *
Sydney Tivoli has awakened to the fact
that a variety entertainment needs to be
entertaining, and last Saturday, to a packed
house, it set forth one ofjthe brightest programmes
on its record. Derenda and Breen are the great
stars, a pair of agile young persons who juggle
with clubs and enliven their dexterity with
comedy business in a really entertaining
fashion. America, land of freedom and patent
medicines, is evidently the true home of the
variety entertainer; there is not an atom of
stolidity in the performers from that country,
and even when their powers of singing, acting,
or juggling are not very wonderful, they eke them
out witli patient attention to detail. Derenda,
and Breen are, of course, Americans ; so are the
Allisons, who provide another welcome item in
the present Tivoli programme. A joyful re-
appearance is that of J. W. Winton, the clever
ventriloquist, who could, however, afford to do
without the laugh that he gets by making a
“dummy” Kruger sing “God Save the King.”
Kruger is a very small dog, and it is quite safe°to
pinch his tail; but, in view of present circum-
stances, it is hardly decent to drag an effigy of
the old man on to a music-hall stage to make fun
for the gallery. Except for the fact that the
“first part” is gradually slipping into the old
groove and calling for absolute abolition—not
merely new-dressing and setting—Sydney Tivoli
is just now a satisfactory place at which to
frivol away an evening.
“Robinson Crusoe,” at Sydney Empire,
is a pantomime in which the performers are scanty,
and the local allusions are many. The scene
where a wreck, a rock, and a Robinson Crusoe,
also some industrious waves, all manage to exist
on one small stage, is received nightly with
enthusiasm. It is the only attempt at spectacular
effect in the production. “ Robinson Crusoe ”is
an example of a panto, that keeps its house full
by not attempting anything too novel in the way
of wit, but rather sticking to the theory that an
old joke is the best for a hard road. Stevens
as a female in bloomers is very ancient fun.
The half-dozen girls who compose Will W. Atkins’
cut-throat band are all nice girls. Kearns and
M‘Kisson enliven the solitudes of Crusoe’s Island
by an aerial act. There would naturally be two or
more acrobats on an uninhabited island.
* * * sfc
At Melbourne Princess’s the beautiful
“Aladdin” show is now concluding with
Goatcher’s transformation scene at 11 p.m., the
four young men who bike in a basket having taken
their novelty elsewhere. George Musgrove’s
panto., or extravaganza, is about the handsomest
spectacle ever staged in Melbourne. Also, it is
bright and interesting as far as its narrative goes.
Abanazar, the little Dutch-Israelite magician,
transacts his peezness with Aladdin in a style
that gets away from pantomime tradition, and
deepens into realism when he grows angry.
Abanazar, urging his young agent to give him
the lamp what time that unsuspecting she-boy
picks up emerald and ruby dumplings in the Cave
is a faithful presentment of a legendary pawn-
broker racked with anxiety. And Nellie Stewart,
as the boy in question, plays her part in the Cave
scene as though she were taking Uncle Ab. quite
seriously. Everything worth doing at all—even
a tragic episode in nursery fiction—is worth doing
well, and the principal boy is the same con-
scientious Nellie as ever she was. Conscien-
tiousness, however, amounts to a sad mistake
in the matter of her much-mentioned snake
costume. The glittering reptile is a fat im-
pediment to the wearer’s gait, and a circular
protuberance upon her shapely figure, and as it is
said to weigh more than a sack of potatoes, The
Bulletin would advise Miss Stewart to apply for
the hand of the Princess in a more rational
garment. A pretty double duet in the Chinese
Emperor’s ante-chamber is a musical feature of
“Aladdin.” Likewise the artistic cake-walk of
the Perman trio, the singing of Ghe Gothams, the
Porcelain Procession, and the Pink Ballet are re-
ceived with an enthusiasm which foretells a long
run for the show. “Aladdin” has two matinees
per week, when a harlequinade is added for the
alleged entertainment of the young.
** * *
“ San Toy ” proceeds at Her Majesty’s,
with every appearance of being fated to stay on
the premises until the last echoes of Xmas have
died away. Lauri didn’t let himself go with con-
fidence for the first night or two, but he is now
going vigorously, and if his Chinaman seems much
the same Chow as heintroduced in “ The Geisha,”
nobody objects to the revival. Take it altogether,
“ San Toy ” is an improvement on “ The Geisha. ”
The lyrics are often quaint and snappy, the dance
music is charming, and Florence Young’s voice is
the best that Williamson’s opera co. has possessed
of recent years.
A* * * *
The colossal improbabilities of “The
Span of Life ” continue to serve B. Holt’s purpose
at Melb. Royal, and a crowded audience gloats
over Dunstan Leech’s discomfiture every evening.
Dunstan never wearies of ill-doing. Early in the
melodrama he removes a youthful step-brother
from his path by injecting morphia into a bunch
of grapes; after which he endeavours to achieve
the destruction of a mail steamer by removing
Walter Baker with a gun. Then he journeys to
Zambesia and becomes an Arab slave-trader, in
I order that he may seize Baker's gold mine, and
take Miss Ross captive. His intentions re the
lady are mingled with a casual brutality to her
cheeild —a very small boy who sometimes kisses
his hand to the stalls whilst his mother protests
that he will die of thirst if Dunstan refuses to give
him water. There are no redeeming points about
Dunstan that the present scribe can remember.
As a man he invites loathing, and as a villain he
earns general contempt for the failure of his
schemes. All the same, he is an indispensable
person. But for Dunstan there would be no occa-
sion for a boneless bridge in Africa, nor any
trouble at the lighthouse on the Coffin Rocks.
And if these things were omitted from Bland
Holt’s revival, it would never have been revived
at all.
*# * «
Friday of this week will be a rather
sorrowful evening at Melb. Opera House. The
funeral of the old-established “First Part” is
fixed for that occasion, and a number of small
ballad singers, and “sisters,” and people
who merely helped to make up “ the
whole of the famous company ” on the
right side of 9 p.m., will quit the Rickards
salary list for ever. An attempt to improve upon
the old order of things by removing the chairs,
and abolishing the burnt-cork corner men, was
not a success, so when another variety co. came
along and prospered without any sort of First
Part, the local Rickards took the hint. The First
Part was an expensive institution which had
practically ceased to show a profit.
** * *
Several new turns from America cropped
up at the Opera House, Melb., last Saturday, and,
with the exception of a Tired Tramp, who wafted
his weariness across the footlights, these latest
arrivals seemed to hit the target. Colby and
Way, in fact, scored a bull’s-eye. Colby is a good
enowh ventriloquist and an excellent puppet-
showman, and Alice Way looks more like a
dancing doll than any previous lady who
has professed to have a clockwork interior. The
Lundgreens are moderately humorous gymnasts
on a see-saw ladder arrangement, and Weston
and Yost dialogue through their noses under
conditions new to this country—just at present.
Unfortunately Weston or Yost uttered an ancient
“ gag ” with the word “Hell” in it. “ Hell ”is
a popular term among Yankee small boys and
their male parents, but the audience at Rickards’s
thought it a shocking word to come from the
mouth of an apocryphal youngster, so Weston or
Yost will probably bowdlerize “H 1” by
dropping the aspirate, or will substitute “Ge-
henna ” for the awful indiscretion.
** * *
At Melbourne Bijou, where Chas. Sweet,
the piccaninnies, Henry Lee, Nelstone, &c.,
happen as before, a couple of new turns are
Wallace Browillow and the Lotto cyclists.
Brownlow, the beloved baritone, sings Kipling’s
“Mandalay” and “ Gunga Din” for all they
are worth in their musical setting, which
is not a vast amount, anyhow. The Lottos,
mentioned in last issue of this family journal
as a sensational adjunct to Musgrove’s panto.,
perform around their precipitous basket track
with less effect on the Bijou stage than they pro-
duced at the Princess’s. They are brought nearer
to the audience in the smaller house, and, seem-
ingly, distance lends astonishment to the specta-
tators. Still the fact remains that the Lottos do
travel on an angle of 60 degrees at a x x x x of
a pace.
** * *
Maggie Moore and co. appear to have
created a want at the little Gaiety Theatre, under-
neath the Bijou. Any show that can flourish at
the unfamiliar Gaiety in its first week must be
likely to keep a hold on the floor for some time,
and the M.M. enterprise has flourished consider-
ably since Boxing Night. “ Struck Oil ” made a
good start on Saturday with Leo Du Chateau, J.
P. West, Vincent Scully, J. Ennis and Blanche
Lewis to look after the simple old drama whenever
Maggie Moore wasn’t performing her large share
of it for more than the 6000th time. Eighteen
solid years’ practice at the character have given
more than one sort of roundness to the original
Lizzie Stofel, but the tears get into her voice as
naturally as ever, and the public approves of
Lizzie all the time. Besides, “ Struck Oil ”is the
story of a self-sacrificing Dutchman, who goes to
war for the sake of his wife and child and family-
hearthstone, and its anti-jingo sentiment sounds
very up-to-date.
** # #
Fitzgerald Bros.’ Circus concluded its
twelfth week in Melbourne by departing for Tas-
mania last Monday, under the direction of brother
Dan. Meanwhile brother Tom is running a
branch Circus in Adelaide with enormous success,
and the two members of the firm shake hands by
telegraph at regular intervals, and wire each other
gratifying news about the takings.
At Poverty Point.
Seems that the first night of “ Aladdin” at Melb. Prin-
cess’s was a terrible event for the clown who had con-
tracted to be “ funny ” for ten minutes whilst the Lotto
cycling-track was getting fixed behind the front scene.
The track fixings went wrong, and had to be taken to
pieces again, which meant a loss of 15 minutes or more,
so the person who had arranged to be funny for ten
minutes had to be a bright and spontaneous source of
mirth for nearly half-an-hour.
Albert Norman, the old-established villain and semi-
villain of Bland Holt melodrama, has lost four stone
weight within the last few months, and is unable to dis-
cover the secret of his wasting. The production of
“ The Span of Life ” happens opportunely for Norman.
He has no part in Bland Holt’s latest, so he can sample
one or tvvo of the Victorian health resorts and give the
local waters a chance. When a 15-stone man diminishes
to a middle-weight in a mysterious manner, it is time for
him to “ take the waters ” somewhere or other. That’s
what the dooks and earls do. And dooks, as a rule, are
awfully addicted to recovering their health.
George Musgrove seems to have engaged the Lotto
troupe of cyclists for his “ Aladdin ” panto, without con-
sidering the difficulties in the way of staging their sensa-
tional track. They were promptly passed over to the
World’s Entertainers’ show, and all the effect of G.M,’s
preliminary puffs, plus the advt. they got from appearing
at the Princess’s, went to benefit the Lee and Rial
management.
“ The turtle goes slowly, but he gets there in time for
the soup.” (The Mandarin in “ San Toy.”)
Percy Grainger, who seems to have been the first pianist
to get a fair start in London as a duly labelled Australian,
is the son of the Westralian Government architect. Melba
made a point of being present, and sent young Percy a
sweet message of congratulation. Melba’s interest in all
things Australian is growing more enthusiastic every
week as her tour-time approaches.
London criticisms of Percy Grainger’s first pianoforte
recitals in the Big Smoke show clearly that the grave,
golden-haired boy of eight years ago has developed his
talent on the lines laid down for him by Herr Pabst, who
“formed” him in Melbourne. Pabst was a teacher of
thoroughness. The Standard says of Percy Grainger
“ There was in all his renderings an absence of the
trickery and display that mark so many young exe-
cutants.”
A droll incident happened at Melb. Royal during the
recent revival of “ The War of Wealth.” The play has an
explosion scene, in which all the bang and smoke come
from the back of the stage, whilst the catastrophe seems
to happen in front. One night a girl in the reserved
stalls threw back her head and gave a suitable feminine
yell when she heard the noise. It was such a violent
throwback that the sharp rim of her straw hat cut the
cheek of the man seated next to her. A rough-edged
straw hat strikes the happy medium between a razor and
a tomahawk in such a case. The unhappy , victim, who
probably shut his eyes when the girl shrieked, went forth
into the vestibule with his handkerchief to his face,
protesting that a bit of the explosion had nearly been the
death of him.


stocks Kept of_
RAND ROCK DRILLS & AIR COMPRESSORS
BY THE SOLE AGENTS—
N. GUTHRIDGE, LTD., 71 Clarence Street, Sydney
And at 486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE; WELLINGTON, N.Z.;
214 HIGH STREET, FREMANTLE; KALCOORLIE.
hsd
T-lrt.-A-!IVE’W\.^V'SrS3.
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Prop. Ltd.
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
bdpresenting' ORENSTEIN & KOPPEL LTD., of LONDON and BERLIN,
Equip Complete TRAMWAYS and supply Every Description of Tramway Material.
iPF” Locomotives from 10 to h.p.
STOCKS IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE include Rails and Accessories, Steel Sleepers,
Turntables, Switches, Side Tipping Trucks, Steel Wheels, &c. Technical advice gratuitously
rendered. Flying and Permanent Surveys arranged. Illustrated Catalogues and Photo-
graphic Albums showing Tramways constructed m different Pj* rt isofthe World, upon
application. A - E LEPLASTRIER, Manager.
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
Financial Standard, London, 23rd July, 1001:
“ For years past we have noted the gratifying reports of •
the Colonial Mutual Life, and cannot otherwise than feel
the liveliest sense of admiration of the successful work of
the society.”*
* * * *
The Hannans Oroya Gold Mining Co., Kal-
goorlie, have lately placed an order with the Austral
Otis Comp'any, South Melbourne, for a double drum first
motion winding engine. The cylinders are 18 inch
diameter by 36 inch stroke, and are fitted with balanced
piston valves. The drums are Bft. in diameter and fitted
with indicators. The engine is completely controlled
from the driver’s platform. In all respects is similar to
the engines working so satisfactorily at the Golden Horse-
shoe Mine, Boulder, Long Tunnel, Victoria, and the Cobar
Chesney Mine, N.S.W.*
» * • •
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
» * * *
See for yourself. The Australian Medical
Gazette of January, 1891, compares Zetz Spa to the cele-
brated Vichy waters of France, and states that it is
valuable for gout, rheumatism, gravel, catarrh of the
bladder, diabetes, dyspepsia, splenic and hepatic dis-
orders.
• * * •
Vanning Tables.—The very newest and what
gives exceedingly fair promise of superseding all other
tables is the machine known as the Wesley-Baird Vanning
Table. The table is of South Australian invention, and
has given excellent results on Broken Hill ores and ores
containing pyrites, carbonate of copper and tin. Like all
tables, the best work is done on “ fines,” and more espe-
cially when the product is properly classified. The
Central Mining and Tramway Co., of 424 Little Co.lins-
street, Melbourne, and 40 Hunter-street, Sydney, are the
sole agents in the Eastern States. The table has a capa-
city up to 30 tons per day.*
• * * *
Gentleman having only a limited time at their
disposal can obtain the practical instruction in assaying
and metallurgical work, necessary to qualify them for
obtaining good positions, in the ore testing works of Gil*
Allan and McCreery, Stock Exchange Buildings, Melb.*
m • • *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “ Option,”
Melbourne.*
* * ♦ *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, etc., etc.*
* * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts,nuts,forgings, andall sortsofiron-work.*
* * * *
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buciiu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemistsi
• * * •
During the trial, at Brisbane not long ago, of
one Hall for “ obtaining by false pretences,” a letter was
read which had been found in accused’s possession, and
which set forth that the writer, in order to induce a per-
son to believe that certain washdirt carried gold, got the
man to take out a dish of the dirt himself, and in the
meanwhile put in his own mouth a clay pill containing
about half a grain of gold. Then, when the other
man brought the dish of worthless dirt along, the
smarty was taken with a sneezing-fit, during which he
managed to jerk the little clay pellet into the dish.
The accused, to whom this letter was addressed, got a
“ sneeze ” on his own account in the shape of two years
“hard.” There are more ways of salting a mine than
killing a cat. That cabled of the niggers in West Africa
(salting mines by firing gold into the quartz) is so old that
it is 10 to I some London boomster made the bullets even
if the niggers fired them, which writer much doubts.
However, the Governor of the Gold Coast has reported
that quite a number of mining concessions received from
native chiefs are quite worthless. This comes a little too
late, as the boom had gone off long before the news was
received and millions have been lost in “ Jungle ” cats.
Warnings in all booms come too late, and they are seldom
heeded while the boom is on.
Mr. Sam Hordern has postponed erection
of his new Sydney shop buildings on the Goul-
burn, George, and Pitt streets block. The un-
settled state of the “ resumptions’ ” market is said
to be the cause of this step. Rumor has it that
the Government had an idea of purchasing the old
site.
Thus, solemnly, S.M. Herald :— “lfc is
incomprehensible to the civilian mind that the
British, with a quarter of a million soldiers in the
country, can be surprised and lose so heavily as
they did recently at Tafelkop.” Then Granny
proceeds to set the “civilian mind” right by
repeating the orthodox “military mind’s” ex-
planation : “It is not so much in the ability
of the commandants as in the mobility of
the Boer forces that the strength of the
movement in S’ Africa consists.” But “mo-
bility,” or any other physical quality, is use-
less without brains to direct it. “Mobility” is
the- quality which enables the Boer to get
there quickly, but if, through bad leadership,
he is captured or killed when he arrives, his
mobility may only be a misfortune. It doesn’t
matter how “mobile” Boers or British may be;
they will do themselves no good if they don’t
move in the right direction at the proper time.
Apparently the Boers do that, and the British
don’t, therefore it is a fair inference that the Boers
are guided by better brains than the British.
Whether they are the commandants’ brains is a
detail, which simply shows the absurdity of
the Herald’s sneer at “ the civilian mind.”
Some civilian minds are horribly deceiving.
Julius Caesar, a “civilian,” was at 44 given the
command in Gaul because his enemies were sure
he would make a mess of it. Spinola, the Genoese
banker, was at 37 put in command of the Spanish
army in the Netherlands for no conceivable reason
except that he had plenty of money ; yet he
earned a military reputation which survives as
one of the dozen greatest in history. Then there
was Cromwell, who, after he was 43, proved him-
self the best cavalry leader and one of the best
organisers and strategists England ever produced.
And now De Wet, the cocky-farmer, upsets all
tradition again.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Arsenic, Carbonate of etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Naptha, Benzine and Blasting Charges.
Hy. Markwald,
178 William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney ; 68 Currie-st., Adel.-; 21 Eagle-street,
Brisb. ; and at Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellington, and
Auckland, NZ.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Queensland Government s praccically use-
less Agricultural Bank Bill was again heard of lately. Ihe
radica! defect of Queensland’s proposed State Bank, as of
Westralia’s, is that it is only intended to lend money to
be used for the purpose of making improvements, it a
man with £lOOO worth of security applies for a loan of
£lOO, and doesn’t want the money for the purpose of
making improvements, the bank will have nothing to do
with him—that business must be reserved for the Private
banks. And, as a rule, the man who wants to borrow
small sums for improvements is the struggling cocky who
desires to put up a fence or something of the kind and
whose security isn’t good enough for the P rivate
to look at. It is really a case of the State taking
the unprofitable dregs of the business, and le^'’ ln S
the good business for private institutions. A State
Bank which really means business should go in for lend-
ing on every kind of real property—city, suburban, o
country—where the security is good enough, for these
sufficient reasons I . , ,
(1) The State can lend at 4J or 5 per cent, and make a
profit, and the larger the business the greater the profit.
The State wants all the profits it can get.
(2) A large business can be worked at a far lower per-
centage of expense than a small one.. By doing a large
business, the State can charge lower interest and make
bi f) e The°State wants to gradually oust the absentee
money-lender who is a large section of the money-lending
fraternity. If a needlessly large amount is going out of
the country in interest, it is just the same loss to the
State whether the money goes out as interest on city pro-
perty or on any other property. ~ .
(41 if there is any foreclosing to be done, the State
should do it. The State should be the national landlord,
and if part of its lost heritage comes back bv foreclosure
that is as good a way to recover it as any other way.
Just before his departure from these shores,
Oronhyatekha, the boss of the Canadian In(lc P eri<, ' ; "t
Order of Foresters life assurance concern, bombarded the
S M. Herald with a statement from a new point of view
about the alleged advantages of his dreadful institution.
His theory was something like this. Ihe A ».r.
charges (at age 25) £4 7s. 6d. per annum for a polu j of
fjw frith profits. Of this 14 per cent, goes '"expenses
and 36 per cent, is returned to the policy-holder in
bonuses (50 per cent, in all), leaving £2 3s. 9d. to accumu-
late to pav the policy. On the other hand, the LO P.
charges £2 7s. for a £2OO policy without profits, per
cent goes in expenses (no bonus is paid) leaving £- 4.. Sd.
to accumulated pay the policy. In other words, Oron-
hvatekha put it thus :
AMP (Policy For £2OO With Bonuses) Age 25.
* ' P 4. 7 6
Premium ••
Less Expenses « - ”“.,09
„ Bonus .. .. « •• 111 b 16 y
Left to accumulate for payment of policy £2 3 9
T O F (Policy for £2OO without Bonuses) Age 25.
‘' co 7 0
Premium 094
Less Expenses _
Left to accumulate for payment of policy £2 4 8
On the strength of this the astounding Oronhyatekha
claims that his office is making better provision for pay-
ing its policies at maturity than the A.M.P. does, and is
really the safer institution. By his own showing the
A M.P. has a big margin of safety, inasmuch as it can
reduce its bonus if anything goes wrong, while the I. O.f.
has no such margin. And his theory seems to be that it
is safer not to have a margin.
Of course the whole statement is a misrepresenta-
tion, as almost everything connected with the bounder
IO F institution appears to be. The 1.0. F. doesn t in-
sure anybody, aged 25, for £2OO at £2 7s. per annum, or at
anything like that sum. It charges £2 7s. premium and
15s “ court dues ” which make up £3 25., which is quite a
different thing. And it doesn’t work its office on a real
expense rate at 5 per cent, or anything resembling it.
Here is the real state of things, taking the 1.0. F ba anee-
sheet for 1899— the latest one published in the latest
edition of the Insurance Blue Book which we have been
able to procure, and the latest available A3I.P. balance-
sheet ; and taking a £lOO policy in each office :
1.0. F. (Policy for £lOO Without Bonus), age 25.
Premium .. .. ** " " £ l .« 2
'Courtdues ..I •• •• “ M •• uL£ 0
Total cost of policy .. .. « •• £1 16 6
Less Court dues, all used for ex-
penses or other purposes not
fully explained .. .. • • *0 “ ?
~, Admitted expenses .. ..012
Written off for “ Extensions n n
and off value of assets -. 0 1 * 0 15 0
Leaving to accumulate for payment of policy £1 1 6
The favorite dodge of the 1.0. F. is to set its
policy without bonuses or surrender value against the
A.M.P.’s wifA-profit policy, carrying large bonuses and
large surrender value. Taking the A.M.P. s without-
profit policy, however, we get these results to set against
'the 1.0.F.’s without-proftt policy.
A.M.P. (Policy for £lOO, without Bonus), Age 25.
'Premium .. .. .. .. • • .. £1 13 7
Less all expenses and sums written off assets .. 05 0
Leaving to accumulate for payment of policy ..£lB7
The result is that, to the small policy-holder, the
A.M.P., or any other Australian mutual office of any
■standing, charges less than the 1.0. F., spends far less of
'the policy-holder’s money in expenses and other items
which are not life assurance, and, because it sets aside far
'more of the money received from him to accumulate
'towards payment of his policy, gives him immeasurably
better security. The great Independent Order of
Foresters dodge comes mostly under these headings :
'(1) It alwavs talks of its remarkably low premiums, and
says nothing of the fact that it makes heavy charges in
-addition to the premium, which no Australian office
does. (2) It brags insufferably about how its expense
is only 5 per cent. —about the lowest on record and
>says nothing of the fact that it has been quite a common
thing for “ contingencies ” in its balance-sheet to amount
to another 5 per cent, (it apparently doesn’t reckon “ con-
tingencies” as expenses), making 10 percent., also that
the huge sum collected as “ Court dues ” must be added
to the expenses before the member can find out what his
policy really costs him. (3) It keeps pretty much in the
‘background the fact that its members may be called
upon at any time for extra premiums, and if so called
upon they have no remedy but to pay. The man who
can’t pay loses his policy and all the money he has already
paid in. (4) And it keeps very silent about the awful fact
that when its liabilities and assets were valued (at the
end of 1897) on the strict principles prevailing in England
the present value of the liabilities was over seven millions,
and the assets were very little over half-a-million. The
1.0. F. taking it all round, appears to be about the most
utterly impudent institution that ever struck this simple-
minded country. And its alleged cheapness appears to
be about the largest of the many delusions attached to it.
*** 1 *
The Royal Bank of Queensland :
t, Dividends and Written Total
fronts. Dividend Tax. off. Reserves.
Dec., 1895 .. £6,033.. 2^p.c.= £4,430.. ..£37,155
June, 1896.. 6,445.. 2J- „ „ 4,922.. £4,000.. 34,678
Dec., 1896.. 6,515.. 2J „ „ 4,922.. .. 36,271
June, 1897.. 7,463.. 2J „ „ 5,414.. .. 38,320
(£19,483 capital forfeited and written off.)
Dec., 1897.. 7,440.. 2£ p.c.= 5,075.. .. 40,685
June, 1898.. 7,460.. 2| „ „ 5,075.. £3,000.. 40,070
Dec., 1898.. 7,579.. 2£ „ „ 6,075.. .. 42,574
June, 1899.. 7,830.. 2£ „ „ 5,075.. .. 45,329
(£1,463 capital forfeited and written off.)
Dec., 1899.. 8,322.. 2£ p.c. = 5,056.. .. 48,595
June, 1900.. 8,384.. 2£ „ „ 5,056.. £3,500.. 48,423
Dec., 1900.. 8,434.. 2| „ „ 5,056.. .. 51,801
June, 1901 .. 8,657.. 2| „ „ 5,056.. .. 66,402
Dec., 1901 .. 8,758.. 3 „ „ 6,080.. £3,000.. 55,080
The profits represent £3 19s. 6d. per cent, per annum on
the shareholders’funds as at the commencement of the
half-year (capital £385,187, and reserves £55,402 ; total,
£440,589). The paid-up capital has since been increased
a little, and now stands at £413,533. Six months ago it
was resolved to make a call of £1 per share, and also to
issue £300,000 worth of preference capital (30,000 shares
of £lO each). As no mention is made of any preference
capital being yet actually issued, however, the increase
probably arises from call payments.
The Royal Bank of Queensland has now paid off
the last of its reconstructed deposits, and it is
probably by wav of celebrating the event that
it increases its dividend to 3 per cent. Whether
the increase is yet fully justified is a question that
can only be judged later on. The business looks in
good condition, and the fact that the shareholders’ funds
now equal more than half the liabilities to the public
makes the Royal one of the strongest banks in Australia
from a depositor’s point of view. The reserves are all
separately invested in State securities, which is an
eminently wise precaution, and the reserve of cash and
State securities (£309,084) represents nearly 34 per cent
of all liabilities to the public, which is solid enough for all
purposes. Also, the increase in profits is still maintained
despite the bad times Queensland is going through.
* * • •
The bargain made for the sale of the United
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Co. to the Colonial
Mutual apparently gives the former institution _ about
£24,000. Seemingly it sells for £24,000 assets which its
last balance-sheet declared to be worth ''41.000 over and
above all liabilities, and it throws the goodwill of a pretty
large business in gratis. This fully justifies everything
The Bulletin said when the U.A.M. Co. wrote up its
assets by £3672 in 1899—only two years ago. This paper
remarked then, and has kept remarking ever since, that
the assets apparently were much more in need of writing
down than up, and professed great suspicion about the
valuation which put on the additional £3762 —also
about all valuations where an embarrassed company sud-
denly finds its property increase in value by just the right
amount at just the right moment. The Bulletin was the
only paper which said things like these, and the event
justifies it. If a small sum is allowed for goodwill, then
the sale seems to imply that the U.A.M.’s properties are
only saleable at about one-half their alleged value.
• * * •
When the U.A.M. Insurance Co. was going
steadily to wreck through no cause except its absurdly
high expense-rate, one shareholder (Kerr, M.L.A.) tried
to draw attention to the need for reform. Among other
things, he called meetings of the shareholders. At the
final meeting, when it was agreed to sell the discredited
institution at a great sacrifice, Kerr wanted to know why
it was necessary to make the sacrifice if the assets were
worth their alleged value. He was promptly accused of
having done “all he could to damage the c 0.,” though
apparently he w r as the only man who tried to save
it; his accuser being the chairman of the board under the
management of which a most promising business had been
driven to sell off as if it was a quantity of old clo’. The
awful arrogance of belltopperedmenwhenabusinesswhich
is supposed to be under their charge has gone askew in a
very silly manner, and when questions are asked on the
subject, is an interesting study. Also, Godfrey, M.L.C.,
called out “ Shame ! ’’—not at the Board or the chairman,
but at the man who wanted to know.
* * « *
The Colonial Bank (Melbourne) repaid the last
of its reconstructed deposits on 31st December, 1901.
The Royal of Queensland has just done likewise.
This leaves five banks still in the reconstruction stage—
the Commercial of Australia (Melbourne), the A.J.S.
(Sydney), the Queensland National (Brisbane), and two
English banks, the E.S. and A. and the London.
• • * *
During 1901 Australasia paid to English banks
£133,020 in commission alone for the flotation of loans
issued in London. No Australasian bank received a penny
of the money. And these English banks made such a
sinful hash of the business that the money borrowed in
London last year cost this country, on an average,
£3 lls. 9d. per cent., while the loans floated in Sydney
and Melbourne only cost £3 10s. per cent.
* • • •
The once great St. James’s Building Society
(Melbourne) expects to get to the end of its long-dragged-
out liquidation very shortly. The depositors have al-
ready been paid 16s. in the £, and an offer has been
received for the final fragments of the institution that
will yield enough to give them in all 19s. in the
£. The shareholders are to get nothing, but they have
been fully aware of that fact fora long time, and expected
no better. They have nominally £215,000 in the concern,
but it evaporated long ago.
* ¥ • *
Not since the days of “atmospheric gas” has
there been such a rich idea as “ Byronite,” an explosive
just now before the Victorian Court. Byronite—a share
of the patent rights in which a confiding person purchased
—was made of pollard, beet-root, eucalyptus, chalk and
ti-tree, mixed with lime-water. The formula had the
advantage of being adaptable to circumstances: if you
hadn’t lime you could use oil, or molasses, or sugar syrup,
and most of the other items were just as readily convert-
ible. When you had mixed up the materials mentioned
(or any other materials having a certain resemblance, or no
resemblance at all, thereto), and baked them, you packed up
the dust produced, and placed it “in a generator, inside
which should be hanging a series of small sponges
saturated with oil of cloves. These sponges will extract
the gas and form a powerful explosive power for working
any kind of machinery. Steam or any other power may
be used.” The last sentence shows that this new power
agent is not of a jealous disposition, and will permit worn-
out and effete institutions, such as steam, to co-operate
with its labors. The inventor had also a means of
generating gas “ from the same mixture,” or a somewhat
different one. It was claimed in Court on his behalf that
he absolutely believed in the efficacy of his formula, and
he was certainly able to persuade someone (who is now
very angry) to buy a fourth share in the patent r ,uts.
End of 1900 : Lead, £l6 5a.; copper £72 12s. ;
spelter (zinc), £lB 12s. 6d. ; silver, 2s. 5Jd. End of 1901:
Lead, £lO 3s. 9d. ; copper, £4B; spelter, £l6 15s. ; silver,
2s lfd. A happy new year.
• • • *
Broken Hill mining directors are still without
satisfactory advices regarding metal market prospect?.
In effect they are told that almost anything may happen
—that nothing short of a big rise need surprise them.
The rapid recovery after Christmas that was talked about
is already despaired of. Meantime, the big town that has
grown around the mines is emptying itself as fast as it
knows how. In particular, the thoroughly good miners,
who can always command work, are getting away ; for a
long while past Broken Hill conditions have been hardly
good enough to retain them. This will make the struggle
of the poorer cos. harder when they do try to reopen.
* * » »
Simultaneously with the threatened vvage-reduc-
tions at Broken Hill comes a similar notice with regard to
Moonta and Wallaroo (S.A.) copper-mines, in circum-
stances which make it appear as though the two sets of
directors are working together in this matter.
• » * •
The Broken Hill miners’ butcher’s bill for last
year has 167 items. Lives lost numbered 25 (there were
27 in 1900 and 16 in ’99) ; 37 other accidents are classed as
serious. In 1900, there was not a main-lode mine but had
its victim ; the B.H. Prop, had seven, and Central (Sul-
phide Corporation) three. Last year, the Prop, had 11,
while the well-managed Central had not one.
* • * *
“ Trotter ”: Fifteen months ago Chillagoe
(North Queensland) was a live town—not the corpse it is
to-day. Buildings were going up in all directions,
and tents were everywhere. On the road one con-
stantly met whole families in all manner of vehicles
making for the land of the great boundless “ cat,”
and there were hotels, stores —I think there was
even a newspaper —and general animation. Everybody
was “just waiting for the smelters to start.” Now
they are waiting for the rising of the dead. There
are very few people left in Chillagoe, and the chief con-
tents of the town seem to be empty shanties, unpaid
bills, goats, cranks and curses. Chillagoe has lost hope,
lost heart, lost its credit at the store, lost its boots in
many cases, and it looks as if it had lost its soul. It is a
decayed Lazarus, but it isn’t lying at the rich man’s gate,
for there is hardly anybody here rich enough to have a
gate, and the dogs don’t lick it, for the dog that can make
a living now in this howling, God-forsaken wilderness
has to be a mighty swift dog, and has no time to lick
anybody.
* * * *
The local Miner gives the following figures for
Charters Towers during 1901 :—Mills crushed 215,000 tons
for 203,5000z5. Cyanided 384,000 tons for 155,0000z5.
Over a million of gold won ; divs. £275,000, calls
£47,000, proving most of the ventures are paying their
way. Principal dividend payers : Brilliant and St.
George, £56,000 ; Brilliant Central, £50,000 ; Day Dawn
Block and Wyndham (Bull co.), £50,000 ; The Brilliant,
£33.000 ; Kelly’s Block, £20,000 ; Day Dawn Gold-mines,
£15,500 ; Day Dawn Freehold, £15,000 ; and Band of
Hope, £12,000. And there won’t be any flies on them for
1902 either.
* • * •
Q. Mining Notes : Barring Towers and Croydon
the various fields are just so-so, and immediate outlook
is very dull. Chillagoes and Woodlarks are market
drugs. Ravenswood and Gympie very depressed. Two
notable crushings from latter; South Glanmire and
Monkland, 1400 tons, 19100 z., 2s. dividend ; 2 South Great
Eastern, 2654 tons, 38110 z., 6d. dividend, 6d. bonus.
Other returns are mere driblets. Mount Morgan pays
a 6d. dividend ; sellers 80s.—Croydon has two new
developments, and a yard of rain would hustle things a
bit.- —-Queensland Menzies threatens something good.
Einasleigh Copper Co. (N.Q.) got 30 tons of copper
and 3750 z. of silver from last crushing of 228 tons.
Various small fields are gasping for breath. Tin find near
Croydon seems to have wilted.- Charters Towers wound
up the year with half-a-dozen comforting crushings from
all round the horseshoe. Band of Hope, 488 tons, 7900 z. ;
New Queens, 612 tons, 9400 z.; Day Dawn, 528 tons, 900 oz. ;
Brilliant and St. George, 2301 tons, 28840 z. ; Queen’s
Cross, 270 tons, 5500 z. ; and Victoria Caledonia Block,
444 tons, 788 oz.
• * • •
Croydon notes to Dec. 27,1901: Christmas gifts
to this goldfield included copious rainfalls—dams, creeks,
and watercourses overflowing. Also, a golden reef inter-
sected, at 280 ft. vertical, in Cuthbert’s Content Block ;
golden stone in the Baltic ; an important improvement
in the quality of the ore in the Golden Gate 10 and
11 South Block; a further discovery of rich stone
in the Golden Gate and Nancy Lee United; and other
promising developments. Golden Gate and South
Block crushed satisfactorily. King of Wallabadah, at
Golden Valley, is raising rich specimen stone, which is
being casked and bagged for safety. This mine is owned
by a party of working miners. Homeward Bound line
is coming to the front again, and in other outside
localities a revival is evident. Morgan’s Block pump
has been installed, and sinking resumed.
• * * *
“M‘G.” writes about a tin show: “Unique
and massive tin formation is now being developed at head
of Surprise Gully, Smith’s Creek, six miles from Mt. Garnet
(Q-), by the prospectors (Donoughue Bros, and Folkes)
and by J. Smith on their boundary. Already opened up a
surface (stripping to lode, Ift. to 18in.) for a length
of some 40(Jft., sunk on 6,8, and 12ft. in three
different shafts, trenched across from footwall
(hard granite, dipping towards hill-summit), for 18ft.
and hanging-wall not yet met with, and lode—nothing
but lode, and rich everywhere. Formation is
original, soft, red and micaceous, metal very uniform.
Already 12 loads tried by the Donoughues have returned
slightly over two tons of tin. Smith’s trench (or shaft)
on Donoughue’s boundary, down 12ft. when writer visited
the other day, shows no fault visible, and last couple of
feet average' fully 30 per cent, tin and all good soft
picking. Presumably a dyke formation. Sheddings of
rich alluvial have been worked below this for two miles
by a large number of men for the past three months,
and tin assays 73 per cent. Alluvial discovered
by M’Dermott when hunting for railway-sleepers (rail-
way runs alongside), but source of this only lately
unearthed. Neighborhood shows some high-grade copper
and silver leases being worked, and Smith’s Creek will
very likely (with copper market steadily sickening) be
the Garnet of the future.”
• • * *
The “magging” prophets who coaxed their
foolish friends into buying Woodlarks at £l, should have
the latest crushing from that stricken field posted to
them on an unpaid card as a New Year’s gift. Here it is :
“ Last four weeks’ work : 620 tons crushed, yield 1740 z..
and the concentrates are valued at £94.” Also, .the
manager’s last report is nice, dismal reading : “ Nov. 25.
North tunnel: From end of tunnel, which had to be
driven 119 ft. 6in. without having struck anything of
payable nature. . . . West drive : Advanced 21ft. ; passed
through formation containing good deal lime and iron
pyrites in mineral veins, which have nearly all cut out;
development having proved disappointing, this drive
stopped. North drive: Extended sft. on western lode ;
total, 10ft. No material change. Monkey shaft: South
drive extended sft.; total, 14ft.- Pug vein pinched to
2in., and ground tight. Crosscut east extended 16ft.
across gold-bearing country. Bulk of ground low grade ;
assay taken on cross section 12ft. long assaying 3dwt. 6gr.
gold per ton ; other assays from here being :—Face of
south drive 9ft. from bottom of Monkey shaft, 2ft. across,
including pug vein, loz. 4dwt. 20gr. ; east crosscut 9ft.
from shaft, loz. 6dwt, 3gr. ; face of crosscut, south side,
about 18in., loz. 4dwt. 20gr. The last 2ft. have been
through good-looking dark pug, which showed little free
gold in dish. .. . Stopes: Second south extended Bft.,
being 35ft. in jump up. This stope rather poor pug, only
averaging about 2in." *
For years one of the undeveloped resources of
Maoriland has been the iron-sand deposits of Taranaki.
The stuff is of excellent quality, and when it is fixed up
properly turns out a steel that, for general effectiveness,
is equal to anything on earth. But it_ costs an awful lot
to fix up, and the history of Taranaki is full of talk about
what might be done with that iron-sand. Edison made a
fortune out of similar deposits in the U.S.A. by a patent
process of his own invention ; and now Jerome Cadman,
who used to be a Minister, and HEE HEM Smith, who,
when he's not saving Maoriland, is lighting the lamps of
New Plymouth, have formed a co. (in Britain, of course),
with a capital of half-a-million, to make things hum. The
works that are to be started are said by the lion. Jerome
aforementioned, to mean the employment of a thousand
men. But a lot of castles in Spain have been built on
those same iron-sands.
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can be ob-
tained of Felton, Grimwade and (Jo., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free. v


DAVID JONES COMPANY
HIGH-CLASS HATTERS.
Higrh Crade Selected Fur Framed Felt.
11/6 to 17/6.
First Grade Fur Framed Felt,
10/6, 11/6 to 15/6.
AND
Same Shape in Pedal Straw, 9/6,10/6.
George & Barrack Streets,
SYDJXTEY
HARRINGTON’S s- CAMERAS
'•'v.
NOT ONE
But ALL the Latest and Best
the world produces in Styles,
Grades and Sizes.
Hand, Stand, Pocket # Kodak
CAMERAS
VISIT
OUR
SHOWROOM
£#= FREE Photographic Demonstrations
every Monday, Wednesday and Friday.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue—FßEE.
From
5/ 1
up
to
£5O
66 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Home Cigarettes.
THE LATEST BULLETIN.
They are the Sweetest, the Nicest, the
most Commonwealthiest Cigarette.
All Tobacconists.
Society
PENFOLDS
WINES
The Chamberlain tragedy at Port Mel-
bourne was more popular than a Christmas
pantomime with the crowd. The morgue,
that sombre institution, where damp Govern-
ment property lies on a slab, was rushed
by an eager populace, largely feminine. Two
girls in their early teens explained that their
mother had sene them to see a sight, “such as
they might never have a chance of seeing again.”
The men (and there were plenty of them) mostly
declared that their wives and their four daughters
had disappeared, and they were anxious to identify
this lot as the missing parties. The dragging for
the body of the eldest girl was the most successful
holiday attraction of the seaside suburb, and until
the poor remnant was found the piers were lined
with thousands. Most of the serried rows of
ghouls had brought their meals with them. They
picnicked on the spot, never taking more than
one eye off the police-boat while they ate their
cold roast goose and supervised the Christmas
gambols of their children. The latter had mostly
been promised a sight of the body if they were
good children and didn’t fall in the sea. If we
take our pleasures sadly, we square accounts by
taking our horrors in a cheerful spirit.
NOT THE RISE—THE FALL.
KINDLY SOUL (who gives advice): “So you were
hurt by being blown up in a blast, my man? ”
Cripple (sourly): “No—by cornin' down!”
Sergt. Davidson, the official who bosses
the Melbourne morgue, has rightly taken up a
stand against that institution being turned into a
place of popular amusement, and the other day,
when several belltoppered individuals who didn’t
even pretend to be looking for a lost wife and four
daughters, called to see the five unfortunates
drowned at Port Melb., Davidson promptly
blocked them. One ghoul passed out in a con-
dition of extreme indignation, threatening to see
“my friend, Mr. Peacock,” and get Davidson the
sack. Meanwhile the official has all decent Mel-
bourne behind him. At the time of the Boot-
Trunk affair, people were encouraged to go to the
morgue for the purpose of effecting an identifica-
tion, and availed them selves of the chance so
widely that “morgue parties,” picnicking on the
river bank, were to be seen daily in dozens.
Melbourne ’Erald, after spreading itself
for two days over six columns of sensationalism
about the drowning of a mother and her four
girls at Port Melbourne—picturing the purely-
hypothetical struggles of the children with their
insane parent —thoughtfully printed an interview
with “a well-known medical man,’’who said he
knew 30 or 40 women in a similar condition to the
drowned mother “ who were on the borderland of
insanity, and might at any time become possessed
of a spirit of frenzy.” The doctor who makes
such a remark for publication, and the paper which
prints it, are going the best way to bring about
more “sensations” of the same kind.
• * • *
Clement Wragge, Queensland’s weather-
maker, must keep up to date or bust. The other
day he predicted “further bush fires ” —which only
meant that he expected it to be hot and dry, just
as he might have predicted wet feet if he expected
rain, or large coal fires if he reckoned it was going
to be cold. The next outbreak will probably be :
“ Wet wickets may be expected under ‘Googoo.’
Captains winning the toss should note.”
* * * *
The sorrowful old omnibus has returned,
after many years’ absence, to Melb. streets, and
has commenced running in competition with the
trams. A Sydney speculator is at the bottom of
the trouble, and the vehicles come from that city.
The antiquated doings of the Mel'). Tramway Co.,
its refusal to establish penny sections according to
modern ideas, and its tendency to sacrifice comfort
to 24 per cent, dividends, are apparently respons-
ible. If the Tramway Co. falls no further behind
the times, the omnibus may be the oldest thing
that comes back to Melbourne ; but if the co.
grows much more venerable in its ways the
bullock-dray and the dinosaurus and the ptero-
dactyl may be expected almost any day.
* • « *
Very lately a married man (28) in the em-
ploy of the Australian Gaslight Co. (Sydney) was
found guilty of stealing from the company goods
to the value of £2. It transpired in evidence that
he was in receipt of £1 per week. It looks as if
the 15 per cent, monopoly got just as much
honesty as it paid for.
• * * *
A country ston keeper, who was mayor,
churchwarden, and captain of the local volunteer
corps, visited the capital for some military dis-
play. He was ambitious, and managed to
arrange for a presentation to the then
Governor. His influential friend then
began—“ Allow me, Your Excellency, to
present General ” “Not General,”
interrupted the warrior excitedly. “Cap-
tain, captain!” “I beg Your Excel-
lency’s _ pardon, not General, Captain
Smith, of Bull’s Wool, general store-
keeper.”
* * * *
Since the depression struck Broken
Hill the miner naturally hasn’t had much
money for beer, and, to entice him to
spend a little more ready, some of the
publicans lowered the price. A hubbub
occurred. Hotelkeepers consulted with
brewers, and the result was an agree-
ment, in which all but one man joined,
that the price should be kept up. One
publican, however, gets over the agree-
ment by charging full rate, and then
filling ’em up again for nothing. The
trouble gave birth to several “beer clubs,”
where a citizen could get .his tanglefoot
at 3d. to 4d. a pint. These clubs, how-
ever, were formed too hurriedly, without
the requisite legal formalities, and the
police fell on them with great thud. The
point on which their bona fides broke
down was that a man could be nominated
as a member one minute and shout drinks
for the crowd the next. Also, the mode
of nomination was, in many instances,
altogether too premature. An old mem-
ber would bring in the candidate and
simply say, “This is Smith,” and the
thing was done. If no old member was
available the applicant could come in
alone and simply say he was Smith.
Broken Hill, by the way, has about 70
hotels, and when a number of clubs were
. added, it became almost the most-pubbed town
in the universe.
* » * *
Hawkers’ licenses were granted, the other
day, at Liverpool (N.S.W.), to the following
British “subjects” :
Mollo Box, Man Singh, Buda’ Dingh, liarkan Singh,
Bootah, Natoo, Rama Khan, Gunda Singh, Basha Singh,
Denang Singh, Marama Singh, Mehamet Shah, Alio Eloh,
Mebamet Box, and Goolam Mahomet.
Mostly Mahomet and Box. God bless our White
Australia !
The sting of the war, as far as Aus-
tralia is concerned, seems to be in the tail.
Although the Boers had plenty of artillery,
well-served, at the start of hostilities, the
earlier cohentingenters who returned to
Australia arrived sound in wind and limb.
Those who have been coming back during
the past few weeks, however, include a
very large proportion of permanent crip-
ples. It is now aiommon t iling in any Aus-
tralian capital to meet a one-legged cohen-
tingenter hobbling on crutches. Does this
argue that the army medical corps is not so
well served as in the early days of the cam-
paign? Gun-shot wounds of the modern
type should seldom lead to the loss of a limb,
if properly treated. By the way, did not
Steeveils say in I is Khartoum book that, of
all departments under Kitchener, the only
one neglected was the ambulance ?
“ J.G.” : The servant, girl in a new
aspect. Have just heard of a ‘‘domestic”
who goes to the city for a year, carefully
saves all her earnings goes back to her own
little town, rents the local hall, and “gifs
a barty ” to all her friends and their friends.
&he does the thing in great style, and then
goes off to another 12 months’ toil. It is
her way of drinking her cheque. For one
night she is the hostess in a big house,
receiving her guests on a real carpet to
the music of a real band, and though the
hall is oidy wood she feels it is some kind of
apology for the marble corridors of her
ancestors. How many broken hopes,
broken hearts, and broken vanities ancestors
have caused by not leaving enough marble
corridors to go round !
* * * *
Latest mask of the bad Samaritans
who are willing to get woman out of her
little trouble—a suburban drapery shop.
Acland Oronhyatekha, of the 1.0. F. life-
assurance concern, has apparently only himself to
blame for being prosecuted on a charge of assault-
ing the lady type-writer. Though the girl
alleged certain things to one or two persons in the
office, she appears to have preferred to let the
matter drop, and, seemingly, her confidants said
nothing. But the Mohawk Indian gentleman
talked and talked, and through no other visible
cause than his flood of conversation the ’tecs at
last gathered that some kind of accusation had
been made. They started inquiring, and the
grease was in the fire. From which it would
appear that the splendid silence of the red man
whom Fenimore Cooper depicted has been con-
siderably weakened by civilisation.
Westralia has shaken off the
gyves of convict days but has still a few
weals on its limbs to remind it of the
recent horror. One of them is a
ticket-of-leave system dating back
from 1869. This seems to be adminis-
tered in a free-and-easy fashion ; any
sort of dangerous criminal with the
right sort of influence can get out of
gaol on ticket-of-leave, and very
many of those celebrate their liberty
by committing further crimes. On
the other hand the regulations under
the system can be effectively used
to hound back to gaol liberated pri-
soners who try to earn an honest
living. For instance an ex-prisoner,
who had been industrious and honest
ever since his liberation, was recently
hauled publicly before the court for
being out in the streets after 10. There
used to be an unfounded jibe in Perth,
by the way, that all society functions
had to end at 9.45, so as to avoid draw-
ing invidious distinctions between the
guest who got home voluntarily at 10
and the one who was liable to be ar-
rested and perhaps flogged if he didn’t.
* * •
“A.G.”: Used to be under the
impression that N.S.W. Railway Com
missioners kept men to clean their
carriages. T’other day, however, I
travelled first-class from Albion Park
to Wollongong, and am not likely to
forget the jaunt. The stench that arose
from under the seats, and from the
water bottle, was enough to lay-out a
Chow. A 14-stone lady fainted before
we had gone a mile, and two of us had
to hold her up to the window for
fresh air. She couldn’t stand ; nor could we
when we had done with her and the assorted
smells.
* * * *
It is quite a long time since there has been
in N.S. Wales a prosecution under the Public
Health Act. When the Board which administers
that Act started business, it proceeded against
quite a number of people for selling goods “ not
of the nature and substance demanded,” and,
among others, a very big shopkeeper was fined
over a matter relating to the quality of some con-
densed milk. Of late, such prosecutions have
been abandoned, and it is not because there no
longer remains reason for them. Every reform
seems to flicker out like that in Australia—through
sitting down and forgetting to rise up again.
HE HAD A PREFERENCE.
GROCER: “Now, my boy, you have been a week with
us. What part of the business do you like most? ”
NEW BOY : “ The shuttin ’ up, please, sir.”
“ Petronius ” : The annual exhibition of
students’ drawings in the Melb. National Gallery
makes a fine show of hands and big feet and ana-
tomical figures. By order of the trustees many of
the nudes have been removed. There is a remark-
able lack of individuality about the drawings ;
even all the noses are drawn, on scientific prin-
ciples, larger than life-size, so that they look like
bottles. This should gratify the Director, Bernard
Hall, who believes that technique cannot be good
unless it crushes out any intrusive personal ele-
ment. There is not a trace of beauty in the whole
show, but as an exhibition of ugliness it ap-
proaches the sublime.
» • H , *
About New Year time there was a grue-
some drowning accident on the Brisbane River.
Two or three days later a skeleton was found on
the beach, and it was at once decided that this
THE FIGURE TELLS .
WIDOW: “I threw you over for poor Tom. But
you have come back to me. lam older, my
face has lost its girlish, freshness, and —”
SUITOR (who knows the late Tom's financial
affairs): " But your figure has wonderfully
improved! ”
was the bony remnant of one of the victims, and
that the clothes, flesh and muscles had all moul-
dered away in about 48 hours. Nobody observed
the discrepancy till a doctor interposed, and it
was just by chance that the premature bones
weren’t buried under a wrong name.
TIME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Gray Time resting on a stone—
Sad Time sitting all alone—-
Mumbled in an undertone
Of his endless weariness :
Sudden, with a sunbeam’s flight,
Came a cherub winged with light—
Came, as morning comes to night,
Brightening all his dreariness.
For the golden-headed hoy
Was the cherub men call Joy-
Golden Joy without alloy ;
And he laughed within Time’s ear.
Time forgot to turn his glass,
Left flowers blooming in the grass—
Could he tell the hour to pars
With Joy’s ruddy cheek so near?
WILD BEE.


J.D.K.Z. GIN.
4
Only a little higher in price than other gin l
but absolutely the best in the world. One size
only—largest size, each bottle contains 1 quarb
and l-15th. Full strength, 16'5 u.p. It is manu-
factured by Messrs. Jno de Kuyper and Zoon
Rotterdam. It is the best known and most,
largely used in every country. Those who are
careful about the quality of the stimulant they
take should ask for J.D.K.Z., and they will get
the best value for their money. Agents for
N.S.W.: LUCAS LOCK & CO.. Macquarie
Place, Sydney.
RAFFAN’S SULPHUR LIVER PILLS—I -
Cures the Backache in 10 Hours.
RAFFAN’S SULPHUR LIVER PILLS—I/-
Promptly cures Malarial and Rheumatic Conditions.
RAFFAN’S SULPHUR LIVER PILLS—I/-
Is attracting attention for Internal Tumors.
RAFFAN’S SULPHUR LIVER PILLS—I -
Gives a Freshness and Freedom from Eruptions.
A TONIC LAXATIVE.
RAFFAN, Pharmacist, MELBOURNE.
05
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers’
Gazette, and Sailing List with map.
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 Collins-st., Melbourne. 4 Hunter-st., Sydney.
Inter-State Championship Band Contest
SOME INTERESTING PARTICULARS.
The Band Contest Art Union, which is being
extensively advertised just now, is conducted
under the auspices of the Band Association of
N.S.W.— the only body of its kind in the Com-
monwealth. Contest takes place Sydney Town
Hall, Jan. 25th and 27th. Prizes value £350.
Art Union drawing comes off Feb. 26th. First
four principal prizes: Gold Cornet, £lOO ; Victor
Piano, £5O; Kimball Organ, £25; Naumann
Bicycle, £2O. (By the way, there are some
“ melting moments ” awaiting that gold cornet.)
Price of Tickets, Is. Half profits divided amongst
public hospitals ; this in proportion to tickets sold
locally in each district and State. Mr. J. F. Bruce,
Hon. Sec., 305 Pitt-street, Sydney, will supply
private purchasers or intending agents on appli-
cation.*
+
Great gifts of discernment, amounting
almost to genius, have made J. W. Holdsworth
(101 Swanston-street, Melbourne), unrivalled at
tracing missing persons, next-of-kin, &c., and
investigating confidential matters.*
TO CURE SORE EYES.
Apply Morris’s Imperial Eye Ointment, and
avoid intense suffering. Never be without it.
Over 50 years in use. Refuse all substitutes.
Pots, 25.; sold everywhere.
SILVER STAR STARCH.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
[Cuppers Elberfeld Lager.
UIiAOT
,l)PaiM < ?' S .fW' 1
CU r ftr anP Troubles.
Frequent ending to a foundation-
stone report : “ made an appeal,
with the result that £3O in cash was re-
ceived, together with another £lOO in
cheques.” Experience has taught pro-
moters of these affairs to differentiate
between cash and cheques. The £25
cheque which evokes a murmur of religious
applause is not always cashed ; sometimes
it is never intended to be, and the an-
nouncement of its existence is the price
of a genuine contribution of a fiver.
* * * *
“X.X.X.” in defence of the filthy
habit of using a common communion cup:
At every celebration the whitest of serviettes
are used to dry the rim of the cup before io is
passed on to the next participant.
But, as any doctor could tell you, a
whited sepulchre—we mean serviette—
or two doesn’t much help matters. What
protection is that when 30 or 40 people par-
take out of the same cup, and it is wiped
30 or 40 times with the same serviette?
The real reason for continuing the conta-
gious habit is that the church people
nave a vague, foolish belief that Provi-
dence will miraculously interfere to pre-
vent disease-communication. The R.G.’s,
though professing generally a robust faith
in miracles, long ago eschewed the wine-
cup. Other churches should follow suit,
or, if that is against their religious views,
use small wine-glasses, one for each com-
municant. There are no miracles; the
operations of Nature are unfaltering.
Rumor says that the next society divorce-
action is to be a military one, a N.S.W. officer
being petitioner. Heavy damages are claimed;
but an earnest attempt is being made to settle the
affair out of court.
• • • •
Since the outbreak of the Boer war Dawvid
Syme seems to have become imbued with the
wild patriotism which used to make the British
sailor of a century ago refer to every foreigner as
a sanguinary Dutchman. Only, in David’s case,
everybody is a German. Kruger, who, like all
burghers of the Boer States, has been known as
“Mister,” is termed “Herr” in the Age —not
even “ Mynheer ” —and recently in its theatre-
notices the Age came along with a notification
that Herr Napoleon Bouffard (!) —Herr Napoleon
of all names in the world —was about to appear in
the Bijou Theatre. When a Frenchman is called
“Herr” by a great daily, one may expect to find
the statement that Herr Ah Yip was fined for
keeping a dirty cabinet-making shop, or that Herr
Andropolus Demetrius has opened a new oyster
emporium. The views of Herr Ram Chunder
on the Alien Immigration Act will be carefully
given in the next column to the account of Herr
Antonio Garcia’s death in the bull-ring at Madrid.
It is only the Englishman who seems to rise above
the common Herred in the opinion of David
Syme.
* * * •
Lord Hopetoun’s arrival in Perth would
have been a positive frost but for Providence
sending a day so hot as to thaw “ most anythin’.”
The ’Gropers groped vainly after enthusiasm.
The streets were decorated with weatherbeaten
remnants of the York visit, The G.G. looked a
very hard-worked hack as he passed bareheaded
in the broiling sun, bowing for all the world like
a mechanical Xmas toy. The whole procession
reminded one forcibly of a funeral, especially
when the just-sworn-in-that-morning-to-be-in-time
Leake Ministry hove in sight, with. a gravity that
was somewhat dispelled by the optical illusion of
each member with his left closed eye and his tongue
in his cheek. The Ministry was only trying to
dodge the sun-glare, but it created the impression
above-mentioned. Bigjohn Forrest, with his har-
vest-moon face beaming as he recognised, and
was recognised by, his old friends, was the only
outwardly cheerful object there. . People said it
was a good-humored crowd ; which was wrong.
It was good-humored, but it wasn’t a crowd.
• * • *
On the Wednesday during the progress of
“the second test,” a touching sight was witnessed
in front of Melbourne Age office. Returns were
being posted for the convenience of a dusty crowd
that lined the kerb and clustered in the heat.
Just before the fall of the tenth Australian
wicket, three johnnies, who had been doing them-
selves proud, drove up in a hansom, and, seeing
the result, cheered hilariously and drunkenly,
while the dejected Australians sat with their feet
in the gutter, like sober mourners at a mother’s
funeral. Later in the day the same three
johnnies, who had put in the interval rounding up
the city hotels, drove up again in the same han-
som, and prepared to put up another cheer for
old England, when the shocking result of the Eng-
lish team’s first innings struck them full in the
eye.' They were dumb for a moment, and then
one of them—a large, fat, fair individual—dragged
his cap down over his eyes and wept aloud like a
child. This time it was the crowd’s turn to cheer,
and its howl of triumph stirred the town.
• * • •
Bitter and uncalled-for remark by Adel-
aide Quiz :
Tasmanian people are like snakes—loafers during the
winter and crawlers during the summer. They have just
woke up down there from their annual snooze, and are
now crawling after the tourists’ money.
* * * *
J. P. T. Caulfield, the “ Drink Cure” man,
is offering his nostrum to the Victorian State
Government for a humble trifle of £15,000.
Peacock is understood to be rushing to the bank
for the money.
BEATING TIME.
“ Why, the son looks older I
than the father! ”
"Oh, he is—lived so much faster,
you know.”
The inquest on the railway smash at
Walloway (S.A.) spasmodically eventuated and
peacefully subsided. Walloway is a siding devoid
of signals, telephone, telegraph—of everything,
except a lady caretaker, who supervises goods
and mails only. Seven miles south of Walloway
lies Orroroo, seven miles to north Eurelia. Each
of these places has a station fully manned and
equipped with every ordinary requirement. Yet
at all times, in all weathers, trains have been
allowed to cross at Walloway. The crossing has
to be done without signals, except such as are
made by the guard first on the spot, who
waves his lamp and yells if necessary. . The in-
cline there is one of the steepest in . S.A.,
and one damp, dark, boisterous night a train slid
past the dismal siding just in time to run into. the
other train approaching. It was the sort of night
when one might fail to find a cathedral without a
light—let alone a dog-box station in a black wil-
derness. S.A.- is too depressed on account of
grasshoppers, droughts, &c., to exactly locate the
responsibility, so it says the driver is to blame.
* * * •
Frequent bursting of Sydney water-mains
(three big bursts in a fortnight) seems to suggest
that the supply has other weak points, in addition
to the leaky channel between Prospect and Potts
Hill.
COAT-LESS.
"Beer, my dear man, is not
only full of arsenic, hut it destroys
the coats of the stomach.”
" I shay, what a lot o'—hic—shtummicks there must he going about in their shirt-sleeves.”
Early on Christmas morning in Melbourne
a homeless woman, in the pangs of childbirth,
crawled into an outhouse. She was graciously
allowed to stay there, and, about an hour later,
there was found a new-born babe already dead
and the mother in extremis. The woman was
then rushed off to the hospital—but. too late to
save her life. This was in a Christian country
on Christmas morning.
The South Australian squabble between
Chief Justice- and University Chancellor Way
and musical Professor Ives shows the danger of
allowing judicial personages to be anything but
judges. As Chancellor of the University Mr.
Way is alleged by Mr. Ives to have attempted to
improperly influence, on behalf of his niece, the
award in a musical examination. Whether the
accusation is true or not, no Chief Justice should
be in a position which brings him within ten
leagues of such a squabble. The ideal Chief
Justice would have neither wife, nor child, and
would disown all his nieces, and his male relatives
would be exiled. But the world doesn’t grow
ideal Chief Justices. Still, there are limits.
Way’s outside billets have now placed him in this
position, that he couldn’t hang Ives (assuming the
impossible proposition that Ives required hanging)
without some people wondering if he felt glad to
do it, by reason of the old squabble ; and he
couldn’t instruct the jury to acquit Ives (if we
could imagine anything so impossible as Ives
requiring acquittal) without other people wonder-
ing if he wasn’t trying to propitiate an enemy who
might otherwise be nasty in the interval before
the execution.
* * » *
The usual 22-year-old youth turned up to
fire the inevitable revolver at the perennial 18-
year-old girl at Fitzroy (Melbourne) the other
night. He proved a fair shot for an amateur, but,
the weapon being a cheap and nasty German
built affair, the three bullets he fired at the girl
and at himself merely bounced off their skulls and
left them with flesh wounds that might have been
caused by running against a clothes line. The
passionate lover in this case was a Broken Hill
lad, who had met the lady when she was per-
forming at the Barrier with a variety co., and
had followed her to Melb., vowing, after the man-
ner of Arthur Styan in a Blandolt melodrama,
that she should be his. He also left a letter
betraying gross ignorance of the ways of cheap
revolvers, for,in it he stated that “both Connie
and he would be dead ere it was received.” Before
even the letter was found, Connie had had her
wound dressed, and was confiding to a sympathetic
reporter how she would 11 never marry a man that
could not keep her, and, besides, she didn’t like
Frank well enough.” Frank is awaiting his
trial for attempted murder, and probably realises
by now that a seven-and-sixpenny revolver is only
intended to excite the persons it is fired at, and
make them write to the papers.
* * * *
Strictest watch and ward is kept nowadays
over the Victorian Parliamentary mace, to pre-
vent any more tricks with the elaborate bauble.
When members go out for dinner, an attendant is
left in the chamber, with strict instructions not to
take his eyes off it, and when Speaker Mason
leaves for the night, a myrmidon with a Jenkins
beard carefully stows it in the coal-cellar or some-
where. Also, it is alleged, all the approaches to
Little Lonsdale-street are watched by Parliamen-
tary detectives.
* * * *
Talk of happy coincidence ! A widower
on an out-back station, up
North, recently got mar-
ried again, and received
by the same teama
bridecake for No.
2 and a tomb-
stone for the
grave of No.
1.
Silverton, once the hub of the Barrier, now
sans council, sans people, sans almost everything,
still has a brewery ! The streets to-day are chiefly
populated by goats ; the houses (what are left) by
crows and other birds. The town depends on a
few gasping “ outside shows” and those Broken
Hillites who are lured thither on Sundays and
holidays by the prospect of sitting under the gum-
trees or eating a little fresh fruit in the creek
gardens.
A Sydney evening newspaper, on Friday,
20th, had an article headed “Not a Drop this
Morning,” referring to the suburban water-famine,
and alongside an article on the execution of the
Queanbeyan criminal, Campbell.
* * * *
One of the recent Vic. bush-fires (in the
Kilmore district) started through some picnickers
leaving their fire alight. They were bathing gaily
in a creek when they saw that the fire had taken
possession, and rushed out, naked but valiant, to
battle with the flames. Their efforts were un-
successful, and when they left off and looked for
their clothes, they found only some scorched boots
and ashes. The Argus, which tells the story,
doesn’t explain how the picnic got home, but, if
it got home with a branch in front of it, and then
was severely reprimanded in the Town Hall by
the mayor and aldermen before its other suit was
sent for, it might have been a fair thing.
» * * *
Sydney’s system of misgovernment is just
now charmingly illustrated in Upper Hunter-sb.
Last month this street was put into thorough
repair at great expense and a steam roller gave it
devoted attention for some three days. The fine
new surface was admired for just one day when
the tramway authorities arrived and tore up the
street to lay an electric wire conduit. Now
the thoroughfare is a wreck, and the money spent
on its formation has been absolutely wasted. _ _Of
course, when half-a-dozen different authorities
have control of the streets, and don’t give each
other notice when they are coming to dig big
holes, things like this must happen.
* • * *
There have been travelling across N.S.W.
during the past few weeks sundry roving
gypsies—cadging if they can, and stealing if they
can’t cadge. They pitched their tents for a week
at Parramatta, and during that time householders
had to use a trifle more than words to drive them
off the premises—in fact, one man had to protect
his property with a poker. A more dirty, slovenly,
unwholesome set of beings would be hard to find.
The hand says it is hound for Bananaland. The
gypsy is one of the world’s mysteries, and -is
among the dozen or so races whom Biblical cranks
have identified as the lost Ten Tribes—though as
the people in Israel’s old stamping-ground around
Samaria say, and always have said, that they are
the Tribes and that they never were lost, this
isn’t a matter of much importance. If the
however, are the alleged ten tribes —who were
only nine after all, if not less —then a lot of the
dignity drops out of the fall of Hoshea’s kingdom.
Doubtless Shalmanezer and his Assyrians were
only looking for their stolen frying-pan.
* * * *
An East Melb. family awakened the other
day to find it had been burgled, and, on attempt-
ing to descend the stairs to give the alarm, it
found a strange bloodhound owning the lower
part of the house. The family spent a hungry
morning endeavoring to lure the dawg from his
post, but without avail ; and, at last, one strate-
gist hit upon, the idea of calling on the assistance
of the general public from the front balcony. For
the next half-hour, East Melb. was treated to
the sight of a respectable, staid family gathered
on the balcony yodeling to the world at large.
At length a passer-by asked the meaning of the
disturbance, and the upshot was that a force of
six neighbors armed with axes burst in at the back
door and drove the intruder growling into the
street. Seeing that the dog got for the burglar
about four hours start, it seems probable that the
animal knew more than he cared to mention.
OUTSIDE SYDNEY BLIND ASYLUM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I saw three maids that stood, and wept to see
Blind faces in the long, grey balcony.
I said : “ Alas, poor blind 1 praise Heaven for sight,
My little maids ; for we at least have light.”
And through the languid gums and loitering wind
I heard a low, soft sigh: “ Alas, poor blind 1 ”
I turned, and saw strange other faces three,
Who gazed, in tears, at those three maids and me.
N.S.W.
P.F.R.


hsd
hsd
hsd
KEITH’S CALF OOL. BALS., Welted, 14s. 6d.
If you wish to place
yourself on a good
footing
GO TO
MARK FOY’S
FOR
YOUR
BOOTS
mam hbui«
. . . FAMOUS . . .
PORT WINE.
Known in all parts of the world as
THE VERY BEST.
Australian Representatives:
SWIFT & COMPANY
7 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
During the holiday season, with its pic-
nics and other opportunities for the harmless,
necessary cuddle, winsome girls and buxom
widows find the P.D. figure gets there every
time. No right-thinking man can resist it. To
own a waist whose beautiful curves exercise a
mesmeric influence over the male mind should
be every woman’s aim. A spinster who doesn’t
wear a P.D. corset is risking her fair chance to
reach the matrimonial goal.*
-|-0 INTERSTATE VISITORS and OTHERS.
J. M°CLUSKY
(of ADELAIDE),
Has RE-BUILT the ROYAL EXCHANGE, SYDNEY,
Comer bf George and King Streets, •
with Bars and Dining: Rooms thoroughly
up to date.
A WOMANS LETTER.
Sydney, January 7, 1902.
My Dear Arini,—
A Happy New Year to you. I take it that,
with the majority of persons, you started the first
day of a. D. 1902 by formulating a series of good
resolutions. You would work certain hours and
play at specified times, you would measure your
food, and walk six miles a day ; any crevices you
found in your life’s grand, sweet song you would
plug with high-thinking. It is easy enough to lay
out a path (leading to the stars) of good intentions,
hut try to walk in it and it turns to an iron string
—and greased at that. Hence you have relapsed
mto your habits of the last year and last century.
.now, just look at . No, don’t ; life’s too short,
our climate too soporific, and I want to speak of
things immediate.
of Sydneysiders spent their New
V ear’s Day at the A. J.C. races at Hand wick, and
lost money—the winning horses were so “dark.”
A huge crowd, and well-dressed. The lawns had
>een recently shaven and a strong wind carried
'! r -y grass shavings about all day in blinding pro-
fusion. This race-meeting is not one where you
expect to see anything fresh in the way of fashions,
but there were some new frocks. A couple of
mauve voiles looked winsome when in contrast
with the grass floor over which they trailed. A
red muslin with many tiny frills was a general
favorite, and a deep cream lace with raised flowers
and scrolls, worn with a blue plateau hat, must
have given its wearer the balmy peace that comes
«<f feeling well-dressed.
A tall, handsome woman who has hitherto worn
only Parisian-made clothes and emeralds showed
how attractive a white linen costume and gold
belt may look on wcunen of her build and blondi-
tude. "
At Highland Society’s concert on New Year’s
mght every seat was filled and every doorway
crowded. The Soc. will surely add a big sum to
the £l2OO it already has in its stocking. It is not
strictly Scotch in membership, foryou may belong
to it even with the name of Mick Gilhooley. A
small section of the audience hailing from Bally-
whackmaquew, in the south of Ireland, went to
this concert with a hope of hearing its two
favorite ballads, “ Logie o’ Buchan ” and the
Land o’ the Leal,” and when it found these
were not on the programme it left early, saying
that the programme should have been arranged
by Irishmen. But the air was electric with
Highland and Lowland enthusiasm—the audience
had spent the day at the Highland sports, and
taken several drops of barley bree for the
day s sake. Everyone looked as if he could hug
his neighbor, or lend money without an I O U.
There were kilts and tartans and sporrans and
bits of heather. f
When Mr. Sykes Avas fantasia-ing on Scotch
airs, how the patriotic feet tapped time on the
floor, and how face turned to face when the organ
gave out bars of “Scots Wha Hae” or “Blue
Bells of Scotland,” and there were nods of under-
standing exchanged between persons who knew not
each others’ names. It was a musical Freemasonry,
wu cer^a * n bars were the brotherhood’s grip.
When Mr> Mont gomery came along with the
Lregors Gathering” I looked round and
tried to spot some of the famous clan—that clan
that lived on a wedge of land between Highlands
and Lowlands the clan of Rob Roy, which was
the terror of its neighbors, lifting their maids and
cattle—the clan that said “ My troubles !” when
the English Government forbade it to carry a
knife, save one with a round point wherewith to
cut its food. “ If they rob us of name, and pursue
us noth beagles, give our roofs to the flame, and
our flesh to the eagles. ‘ Grigalach ! ’ ” sang Mr.
Montgomery (That’s one for the Sassenach), and
i l rt§T iri £f by the frantic applause, all present were
M Gregors, and were quite ready to “ Grigalach ”
there and then. (
.. Mr. Alec. Edward fought the “ Hit Ale of Stir-
ling m a niusicianly sense, and got great spoil
°u a Pp^ aus ? an d encore. The Scottish choir and
the Feldwick quartette gave some braw selec-
tions, and the foreign star, Dolores, shone over
the heather and the tartan. Everyone knows
the smiling, dimpled Dolores is one of the lead-
lng half-dozen singers of the world, and that
with her wonderful vocal mechanism she can get
effects of which only some of the six are capable,
but I don’t think she could sing a pathetic
Scotch song to leave a Scotch eyelash wet. It
is the lack of the “little more”—which, in
tt 3 • i case - means not being born a Celt.
Until Dolores sang “Cornin’ thro’ the Rye”
* thought I knew the body that was kissed
and didn’t cry. She wore a snood and kirtle and
a few freckles, and was winsomeness itself. Now
I see her as a high-born, polished coquette in a
Paris-made tailor costume. Mr. E. Stevenson’s
violin solo was a splendid haggis of national airs,
and was encored. Miss Kate Hancock in “ Banks
of Loch Lomond,” and Miss Cathie Duff in the
Auld Scotch Songs,” and Mr. George Grimm
(who conducted) in the “Kail Yard,” got a full
Scotch welcome and encores. The dancing exhi-
bition, by little girls Macdowell and Abbot and
little boys Sharpe and Bellamy, was capital; and
then the audience went home to tak’ a cup o’
kindness.
Some of the animals in “ Alice in Wonderland”
a ™ ?° st hu £S ab] e Httle freaks—the March hare,
the dormouse, and the six rabbits are especially
cuddlesome. A lot of children who view the
pantomime cannot realise that little humans are
inside those skins, They think that the hutch is
their home, and don’t like to hear of the price on
rabbit scalps. One of the bunnies is only four
years old. The management had a lot of mat-
tresses and pillows brought to the theatre, and
tried to induce the swarm of rabbits, oysters, and
lobsters to sleep, or at least lie down, between
matinees and evening performances. But not one
.on W rest. They utilised the mattresses and bol-
Concerning the fearlessness
a elb ‘ ? ltlzen has irrepressible
tairy of a daughter of six, who varied her usual
plays a week ago by jumping from the balcony,
go below,” she said to her little playmate,
“f* „ l)ol d out your arms to catch me when I
j nip. iShe jumped 14 feet, and was unhurt.
Experienced nothing but indignation because the
other infant had stood from under at the critical
instan t.
Grand opera is an unhappy hunting-ground for
dress copy, if one excepts the ballet, which is
generally bewildering and undressy. The operatic
grande dame, as, for example, Signorina Marco-
mini, in La Giaconda,” mostly wears a long one-
piece white brocade, stiff with silver embroidery.
It she has to meet her lover by nightfall (a very
frequent situation), she dons a long one-piece
black velvet robe, with a wisp of funeral-black
round her head. Benedetto, the magnetic, in her
long, fair plaits, her short dress of black and
crimson, with her dilly-bag hanging near her toes,
her dagger and rosary at the waist, looks an
inspiration for an Italian poster. Dagger and
rosary seem as necessary a finish; to the Italian
opera as illicit love and religious passion. The In-
quisitor s wife calling for help to the Virgin when
she finds her husband knows her to be faithless,
recalls a story of poet Browning’s, told of a girl in
the Brownings’ lodgings somewhere in Italy. They
round that she regularly stole their tea, which
they bore with, but rebelled when they found
she likewise stole their candles. Yet they were
mollified when they found that she stole their
canales in order to burn them before a little
shrine in expiation of her sin in stealing their tea.
A crowded house at the opera on Saturday. The
new mayoral clan _ were in the vice-regal box,
and looked the kind to fill the public eye and
public billets to advantage. They have Roman-
esque noses, impassive faces and well-developed
figures.
Mr. Sid. Long has retired from the Society of
Artists presidency, and Mr. D. H. Sourer is
elected to that onerous, honorable, but moneyless
post. Both Souter and Long received autograph
Xmas and New Year greetings from ex-Governor
Beauchamp, wiio says he still retains much in-
terest m the Society of Artists.
Bananaland’s most prominent cricketer and
toe-balier “Paddy” Carew—came over to Syd-
ney Xmas week, and, at the bride’s home (The
Gleyes, Parramatta River), married the accom-
plished second daughter of Mr. Laurence Foley.
The other day a girl employed at one of the big
city dining-rooms suddenly left her pots and pans
and went off into hysterics of the highly-colored
scream-order. During the riot which ensued, four
others followed suit in milder form. For a space
the floor of the cook’s room was strewn with,
shrieking damsels, until the manager, exerting his
authority, had the “primary cause ” carried out
to the ambulance, wrapped in tablecloths—the
girl’s companions had torn off most of her clothes
and their own in the excitement. A crowd of
some hundreds had collected about the ambulance
waggon, and when it was explained that the
patient was only an. “hysteric ” they felt aggrieved,
for the commotion inside had justified grave hopes
that it was homicide at the very least. One
sufferer was locked up in a room by order of the
irate manager, till such time as she chose to get
over the hallucination that the electric tram had
just run over two men, her own mother, and a.
dog !
A gentleman who more or less recently married a
chorus-lady is proving the truth of the adage about,
love being blind. He is wandering from one swagger
hotel to another with his bride trying to get one
where people won’t stare at her. They stare her
blind, he complains. Every beautiful woman lias,
to put up with that kind of annoyance, but it can
go too far, and all the time it’s not the beauty that,
rivets attention, but the quantity of the make-up
on the bride’s face.
Now that skirts short enough to clear the
ground are the promised vogue, it is interesting
to mark the ingenious arguments that fashion-
writers from London a,re urging in their favor.
Says one, “the short skirt makes women look less
tall, and girls, whose husbands (“girls” is good) are
of less stature than themselves, will gladly choose
the opportunity of lessening the difference between
them.” Yet, the “ opportunity ” was there all
along for tall “girls” with short husbands. On
the same line of reasoning married “ girls ” whose
husbands are.taller than themselves ought to keep
to the long skirt. Another prophetess from the Big
Smoke tells of the simplicity and beauty of pre-
sent-day millinery. “Insight, comprehension,
and knack are imperative,” she says (thank
Heaven “Over Soul” isn’t mentioned). “A
swirl of the wrist to catch your fold of velvet at
the right place, a quill thrust through the founda-
tion, a flash of mauve to light up the face and tilt
the brim. At the back, a harmony of lace and
sable, and mauve or brown, arranged to suit your
individuality the whole, poised on a well-coiffured
head, and you won’t be out of harmony with the
symphonies around you.”
Young Australia hasn’t a reverential attitude
towards old Father Xmas as English picture-
books show him. A Sydney book-shop had hired
& F.X. to advertise the season’s cards. Dressed
in a Druid’s robe, a flowing white beard and hair,
holding a staff decorated with holly berries, the
man marched to and fro on the pavement for days.
At lunch-time Young Australia surrounded himi
with bread pellets and queries as to the hair
tonics he used, and entreaties to go and be shaved.
Finally, F. X. got wild, and fell upon the scoffers
with such fury that a blue uniform came andl
locked him up. I hope he’ll be tried by a hairy,
bearded Judge. Only from such will he get
sympathy.
Here is a delightful study of the convenances
(from a feminine point of view) hailing from
.Tasmania, where convenances grow like apples,
sturdily and luxuriantly ! He was dying; the
doctor had told him there was no hope ; and the
clergyman came with offers of consolation. “Yes,
sir, there’s one thing I’m a little troubled about.
Me and my missus have been rubbin’ along all
right these 35 years and never thought of getting
married. I think we might as well, for the
children’s sake, fix up things CQrrect now as I’m
gom’.” The parson went out in a shocked hurry
to arrange for the nuptials and brought back with
hirn an elderly deaconess, or something, to act as
witness. The children (youngest of them was 20)
were absent. At the conclusion of the ceremony
the blushing bride apologised to the witness : “I’m
sorry Miss I haven’t got a drop of wine or a
bit of cake to offer you.” So there was no
wedding-breakfast.
W rites my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ After the magnificence of the Maddens the
comfyness of newly-arrived Clarkes is most sur-
prising. Would-be toadies prepared to gush ad.
lib. are rather despondent at the quietness of the
sonsie trio, father, mother and daughter, all of
the quiet, steady-going, middle-class English type.
Croquet is their hobby, and, after the wild and
whirling raptures of ping-pong and golf, croquet
is slow. The game is ‘coming in’ in England,
because all the middle-aged dowagers who will
pose as young charmers find tennis and other
active sports rather too hard on their poor, stiff
old knees. At croquet one can go slow and
rest a bit now and then. But we ‘ down-
underers ’ are rather too frisky to care for an
out-of-door play of such tameness, and croquet
languishes. Still, perhaps, sassiety will begin to
knock about balls with mallets now that the
Clarkes are known to fancy the game.
“ In Melbourne sassiety several new faces have
come to the fore recently. Among the season’s
“ buds ” there are. two or three real beauties ready
to rival the knightly Judge’s daughter, Mel-
bourne’s acknowledged belle. And now they
have seen that the new Miss Clarke won’t make
them look faded or jaded they perk up still more.
In high-toned Hawthorn, Miss Maggie Lilley, a
connection of the numerous McMurtrie clan, and
niece of W. Knox of the astounding hats, is con-
sidered queen of the cake walk. Like the widow of
Cliveden, she is at her best mounted. Brighton holds
a good hand in the beauty pack, as the marine
suburb boasts handsome Miss D’Arcy Lane and
Miss Ruby Webb, also a coming-on daughter of
Albert Yuille, of the well-known horsey family.
11 There is a movement on foot to get up fashion-
able riding-parties for the summer. So far,
nothing has been decided upon. One remembers
the sudden termination of the last series. Then
the presiding Diana found her horse so fresh that,
at the first rustle of a leaf, the fiery steed bolted,
and fled with elevated tail over the rim of the
horizon. One of the Hotspurs of the party pur-
sued the runaway. He found the road strewn
with indications of the bolt —a handkerchief, a
hat and a certain amount of chestnut hair. He
gathered these tilings together, and, at last reach-
ing the exhausted steed and furious rider, pre-
sented the upholstering materials to their rightful
owner. She presided at no more riding parties.
Ihe hair broke her up—the other detachments
might have been overlooked.
“The recent marriage of Colonel Tom Price’s
only daughter to the eldest son of a N.S.W.
station-owner is quoted as a fresh instance of the
matrimonial luck vouchsafed to the girl-friends
and protegees of widow Clarke of Cliveden. The
cordial Dowager, herself, had a stroke of fortune
in her day, when, as an attractive governess, she
married her widower employer, the late William
Clarke, Bart. Unlike most women who get on in
the world, the ex-governess has always done her
best to boost she-friends into the front row via a
brilliant marriage, or, at all events, to suit them
happily in the husband line. Lady Charles Scott
(formerly Miss Ryan), the once Miss Murphy
(now a Countess), Mrs. Claud M‘Donald
(Melbourne’s sometime society costumiere), Mrs.
Prank Clarke, nee Cotton, are all cases in point.
Mrs. Ainslie Mills, nee Price, came under the
influence of the Mascotte’s lucky star when Pa
went to S’Africa and left his motherless chick at
hospitable Cliveden, to find her engaged on his
return.
“Nardry, the Mills’ fine place near Hay, is one
of a group of luxurious station homesteads,
reminiscent somewhat of the stately homes of
Camperdown. One of these ‘ desirable residences,’
to use auctioneer’s parlance, is the future home of
Canon Carlisle’s pretty daughter, who, visiting
the Hay district, met her fate in the person of
Squatter Learmouth, whom she recently married,
and with whom she is now honeymooning in
Europe.
“Patriarchal Dr. Bevan is seeing all his olive
branches safe in the Ark of matrimony. A chubby
daughter of his was married in the Congre-
gational Church the other day; and now
news comes of his parson son—Rev. Willett Bevan
—following suit in Shanghai. The bride, in this
instance, was Miss Beatrice Vale, of Hawthorn,
who took the trip northward for the purpose of
■doing the deed.
“ A mid-summer romance stirs Melbourne
■deeply. A party of rich and well-known people,
including an engaged couple, went off for
a short sojourn in a holiday district. The
quiet proceedings there were suddenly broken up
by the engaged girl eloping with the gardener
who tended the flower-beds of the hostelry
where all were domiciled. The fugitives passed
through Melbourne a few days after their flight,
and that is the latest news to date. Meanwhile,
the switched-off one hangs his hat on a weeping
willow tree.
“Dani, the youthful and inaccessible tenor of
•J. C. Williamson’s co., claims that cycling
is good for the voice, and attributes the
preservation of his thrilling high C to con-
stant exercise on his bike. Dani makes a
very graceful entrance in the last act of ‘Fedora’
on his bicycle, and to see an operatic hero wheel-
ing himBelf into the denouement of the tragedy is
refreshingly novel. He is still under 30, and his
wife is likewise. She is her husband’s assistant,
and often follows him to the wings with his cloak,
feathers, or any little stage property he may need.
And Dani never chats to anybody but madame
—when she is there.
“ The uncorseted figure is at large in Melbourne.
It has come to ‘ stay ’ for some time. A deep
inside belt serves as the line of the equator.
Above and below, the figure ‘ sinks and swells ’
like Nora Oreena’s, ‘as Heaven pleases. ’ A Rip
Van Winkle, used to the boned and moulded form
of long ago, would be horrified to witness some of
the perambulating joys of Collins-street—the
sloppy, jelly-like forms divine, or the billiard-
table kind that revel in a dead level and not an
elevation that would cast a shade fit for a hot and
fainting fly. In the case of the happy medium
figure, the absence of the whalebone-squeezer is
rather a success. All the same, corsets are seem-
ingly an indestructible institution.
“The gossamer fever rages. Every woman whose
face glows like roast mutton under the fierce
summer sun takes refuge in a gossamer, and every
school-girl of ambitious tastes envelopes her hat
and head in a protecting veil of the same. Through
the silky textures the beetroot complexion assumes
a soft, satiny look, and the sallowest skin borrows
a peach bloom. The effect is marvellous.
“The girl with the cricket ci-aze got very bad
as soon as Clem. Hill began to score. On Friday
morning the Australian colors flared on many a
dress and hat in Collins-street. The most splashy
thing in badges was a tie in yellow and red tones
with a kangaroo sprawling on the broad beam
end. At the last test in which the Australians
figured in England, a leading mercer made a
special line of these kangaroo ties, and all the
Australians in the Big Smoke attended Lords’
with them on. The particular one this scribe ob-
served on Friday morning had been kept in cam-
phor since then.
“Behold a person of many parts :
MARRIAGES.
STAIT—DOWN (Silver Wedding-).—On the 2nd
January, 1877, at St. Paul’s Cathedral, Dunedin,
Maoriland, by. Archdeacon~E Iwards, John, eldest son
of the late John Stait, of Stait and Batemen, con-
tractors and builders,. Dunedin, Maoriland, to Mary
Ann, only daughter of the late Thomas James Down,
staff sergeant of the 9 ith Light: Infantry, and Mary
Mullin, now of Maria-road, South Dunedin, Maori-
land, and stepdaughter of the late George Mullin,
color sergeant of the 84th Regiment Foot, and grand-
daughter of late Charles Down, Esq., of St. Martin’s
in the Fields, London, England, and great grand-
daughter of the late Dr. Smith, parish doctor, of
Lester, England, and niece of the late Rich; rd Down,
of Strand, London, England, and Jane and George
Livingstone, lateof Sinclair Jack Company, Montreal,
Canada, and Eliza and Dennis O’Keeffe, late garrison
sergeant-major of the 90th Light Infantry, and
Thomas F. Mullin, private, Band, 81st Regiment Foot.
Present address : 46 Gold-street, Brunswick, Mel-
bourne. Home papers please copy.
“Mrs. Fitzgerald, who trotted the globe a
while back in search of circus-novelties, testifies
that the circus as we know it—a horn of plenty
pouring out gee-gees, acrobats, wild beasts, and
clowns—is almost extinct in Europe. At London
Aquarium, or Paris Hippodrome, for instance, the
bill may include a living pedestal of performing
lions, a horse-act, or a handsome lady in hunting
pink putting trick terriers through their paces.
But most of the programme is devoted to gorgeous
mechanical spectacles—the arena is filled with
water; girls, got up to look like fish, with electric
stars on head and tail, swim and dive in a changing
blaze of colored light Barnum’s circus caters
for procession-loving people. Mounted ladies,
prancing ponies, ramping carnivora, combine in a
sensational street parade, to which the ensuing
performance plays second fiddle. Hagenbeck’s
circus at Berlin is something between a private
zoo and a school for educating animals, and that’s
the lot, not forgetting ‘ Circus Busch,’ another
German enterprise. The cleverest seen abroad
were orchestral seals, who—with cymbals, drum-
sticks, triangles, etc., tied to their flippers—
played in perfect time, and caught fish on their
noses between the beats.
“ In Parisian theatres, says Mrs. F., an unpro-
tected female standing at the back of the d.c.
must cling to her post like a limpet or be brushed
forcibly aside by sharp-elbowed male habitues,
greedy of space wherein to spread their shirt-
fronts and moustache-points. The returned
wanderer pronounces Berlin and Vienna the
finest cities in foreign parts, but neither there nor
anywhere else did she find her English tongue a
recommendation. In a French village someone
shouted through her keyhole ‘Dirty English,’ and
in Potsdam, a cabman, aged 95, or so told her
solemnly, “Ach ! Our Emperor Frederick, how
great, hqw noble was he till this Von Morell
Mackenzie came from England to murder him ! ’
Cabbie, evidently in sober earnest, regarded Dr.
Mac. as a hired assassin sent over by Britain to
undermine the Fatherland.
“She found John Bull in Whitechapel, &c.,
less drinky than she expected. The gin-shops
were so packed with women, and their doorways
so blocked with prams, of crying babies, that
thirsty men didn’t get a show. In Petticoat
Lane, women and girls, dancing to the music of
street organs, are worth watching. They shoulder
their legs, do the splits, and pirouette joyously,
careless of heaps of old clo’ and piles of aged
fish and fruit blocking the way and soiling the air.
“The volcanic Dr. Rentoul has a clever
daughter doing a chemical course at the Univer-
sity, dabbling in revolutionary verse at the same
time. The doctor and his daughter are great pals,
and very much akin. They discuss all kinds of
serious topics, and are much imbued with the same
notions of Oppression, Suffrage, Peace and War.
For a girl in her teens, Miss Rentoul has a strong
individuality, and has no greater admirer than her
father. There is another University prof, who
nurses the great grievance and sorrow that his
only son is exceptionally unwilling to follow in his
erudite steps.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


h
BULLETIN SUBSCRIBERS^--
Who are unable to read small printed matter, or to see fine
stitching or writing, whose distant vision is dull and who suffer
from persistent headaches or pains after close application—you
may rest assured that you are suffering from Ageing or
Impaired Vision, and Need Glasses. You should visit
us, and have your sight scientifically tested, and be supplied
with Glasses adapted to your individual case.
TO COUNTRY READERS who cannot visit us personally, we send, Post Free to any address, with full instruc-
tions and Price List, our marvellously-accurate and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURING PATENT. By its use
you can Test your own sight and determine for yourself the style and quality of the glasses you may need.
Write for it to —
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Consulting Optician,
371 George St., Sydney,
And at 232 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, opposite Aan Office.
next door to the A.J.S. Bank.
King and George Streets.
FACILE PRINCEPS.
SEMPER IDEM.
UGHANAN WHISKY.
ptEwSS
Australia
Lightest Wines
n
Supplied to H.R.H. the Puke of York.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Rumored that George Dean, the Sydney
ferry-boat skipper who attempted to poison his
wife, will soon be set at liberty.
One singer who left Australia within the
last "few months whispered in a bar that his doctor
had given him his last prescription. It was:
“ Jump overboard on your way Home ! ”
Printed by Melb. Tocsin :
Lady Helen Stewart has broken off her engagement
with Ketchener because of the atrocities and inhuman
treatment of the women and children in the concentration
camps in South Africa.
Following are a few names from the
A.N.A. list of office-bearers for 1901:—M‘Guire,
Meagher, Doyle, Hanratty, Geraghty, Finnigan,
Murphy, Hogan, Brogan, O’Brien, Casey,
O’Keefe, and Keegan.
The Maoriland woman is advancing with a
vengeance. At Oamaru show lately a fair com-
petitor in the jumping and stock-horse competition
drove a pony tandem team round the ring, having
herself constructed the gig and harness.
Obit , the widow of John Davies, M.L.A.,
and afterwards M.L.C., one of the remarkable off-
shoots of N.S.W. political history. Davies was
largely responsible for getting the Council’s assent
to the Payment of Members Bill—a measure he
feared at the time and condemned all the years of
his life after.
PRECAUTION.
"That plackyuard’s hookin’ it vith von of my
coats on. Fire at kith trousers, Ikey.”
Mr. Oxenhain has named a horse “T.M.S.”
—perhaps after a solicitor friend. A horse of that
name should be a worthy animal, never putting a
surreptitious nose into another moke’s oat-bag;
and as for ‘ ‘ running stiff, ” it would sooner leave
the country.
Sam Smith, M.L. A. for Pyrmont(N.S. W.),
has announced his candidature as the trades
union representative on the Arbitration Court.
If Mr. Smith is elected, Allan Cameron, assistant
secretary to the Seamen’s Union, will contest the
Pyrmont electorate seat.
An old-age pensioner, charged recently
with drunkenness at Liverpool (N.S.W.), pleaded
“guilty,” adding, “ though I wasn’t drunk.” The
Jaypees fined him 2s. 6d., or the rising. George
Reid should see to this old-’un. He may be a
relative in the Yes-No trade.
Mr. S. H. Drew, who dropped dead at
Wanganui (M.L.), lately, was a noted naturalist
and Eellow of the Linnaean Society. Deceased
led an adventurous life in early days, and was one
of the chief hunters in the party that ran down
the Kelly-Burgess-Levy-Sullivan gang, who
slaughtered gold-seekers in Nelson district in ’6B.
“ G.H.” : Bert Levy sketches Peacock of
the Shriek in a recent Melb. Leader with three
brassy medals hanging triangular-wise from his
watch-chain ; allee same Moses Mont de-Peet-
stein. Comment unnecessary. A.J. is a bom
pawn-shop clerk. Will some kind person please
step forward and lead him back to his true voca-
tion ?
Gov. Syd. Clarke was so nervous at the
prorogation of the Vic. Parliament that there
were a number of cracks in his voice. Twice he
made a false start and had to be put back by the
starter, Clerk Jenkins. Syd. in appearance, is a
queer cross between John Madden and Charlie
Ryan, of Plevna. He is said to be as poor as a
crow, and he will have to go very slow indeed.
Died, at Burwood (Sydney), on Saturday,
John Dawson, solicitor, aged 82 years. He was
admitted a solicitor in 1846, and was one of the
last four admitted in the forties. For many years
he was in partnership with the late B. C. Rodd,
who held the record as senior solicitor (1833), and
who died only a couple of years ago aged 93 years.
The law seems a healthy occupation—for those
who are in it.
The gentle, white-handed nurse breaks
out in strange places at times. Boston (U.S.A.)
has one in gaol on a charge of poisoning 12
patients. She used to borrow 6d. or some other
small sum, and then kill the patient to avoid re-
payment. Also, Dayton (U.S.A.) has a lady who
is said to have poisoned 14 people. These two
women averaged 13 murders apiece. The unlucky
number again !
A correspondent writing from Far North ;
“ Christie ” Palmerston, Australian bushman,
explorer and prospector, died t’other week
in Borneo. Christie was all over the Northern
Territory, and one township is named after him.
He was a son of Madame Caradini, the Australian
vocalist. His brother Victor (once the handsomest
man in Queensland) died suddenly in London
some years back.
“Melb.”: Died, in England, Professor
Morris, Higinbotham’s son-in-law and biographer.
Came of a clever family all round, the most
eminent member being his deceased brother,
Father Morris, a ’vert. Morris arrived in Melb.,
1875, as Church of England Grammar School
head-master, after Bromby, and proved a bril-
liant success. Natheless, the squatters ousted
him, because of his remarkable lecture at South
Melbourne, impugning private ownership of
land—lecture obviously inspired by Higinbotham.
Thenceforward the school had many dismal years,
till its resuscitation by the present head-master
Blanch. Morris founded the Shakespeare Society.
Lionel G. Robinson, who has made some-
thing of a name for himself on
the English turf, is the eldest son
of ‘ Guppy ’ Robinson, commer-
cial editor of Melb. Age, also
a nephew of Prime Minister
Barton, and brother
to Arthur Robinson,
M. L. A. (Vic.).
After a brief
sojourn on
Melb. Stock
Exchange,
Mr. Robinson
trekked to
Adelaide,
where he
made a big
‘punch ’ out of
Westralian scrip,
buying Lake View
Consols, Ivanhoes and
Associateds when at their
lowest, after the ‘ Fashoda’
incident, and selling them
in the height of the ’99 boom.
Then he went to London, and
got a seat on the Stock Ex-
change there, and made another
rise out of Kaffir stocks. So
he keeps a swagger estab-
lishment at Hampstead. He
is married to a daughter
of Mr. ‘ Tom ’ James, for
many years chief official in
Melb. telegraph office, and
the gilded pair are said to
be coming soon to Melbourne
on a visit.
An old man. close to 70, has
been denied a pension in N.S.W.
“ because the police had reported unfavor-
ably upon his moral character.” Wonderful
old man to have a moral, or immoral, character
at that age !
Rev. Tremayne Dunstan, the Sydney
“humorous parson” who, if he were not a parson,
would, he says, like to edit a daily paper (quite
the easiest thing in the world to his mind,
probably), is going to make a first venture in
journalism with an organ of “social, political and
religious progress.” There is no appearance, so
far, of the Boyne-water publication announced
some time ago by the Rev. Dill-Macky.
Tas. Bishop Montgomery, appointed Lon-
don secretary of the Society for the Propagation
of the Gospel, starts duty with a sordid row about
his screw, £lOOO a year. Certain Propagators
allege that the stipend is extravagant, though it
is said they really want another man appointed
to the billet. And the Enemy, who never stops
to grumble at his salary, is sowing tares all the
while. That is where the Enemy comes in.
One of the London Snips or Bits steal
papers announces that its special extra double
halfpenny Christmas number is edited by,
and produced under the supervision of, “ the
world’s greatest batsman, Prince Ranjitsinghi.”
Which would seem to indicate that the amateur
princeling is a Jack-of-all-trades when the cricket
season with its “expenses” is off and he isn’t
making an honest penny by whacking the globe
of leather.
Nicholas Lockyer, who left the Treasury
to be the head of N.S.W. Customs, has all his life
been a sort of relative-by-marriage or small
brother to that branch of the Public Service. His
first wife was a daughter of Geoffrey Eagar, one-
time Commissioner of N.S.W. Customs; his
second, married lately, is daughter of Dr.
Wollaston, head of Commonwealth Customs ; and
his father, Major Lockyer, had to do with the
Customs in Westralia.
Purkiss, who helped the downfall of
Westralian Premier Morgans by capturing Minis
ter Frank Wilson’s seat at Perth, is a Tasmanian
who spent 27 years in Maoriland. In 1879 he was
a candidate for Hokitika, but retired in favor of
the then unknown Seddon to avoid splitting the
democratic vote. As a result Seddon got his first
chance in Parliament. Purkiss has been wonder-
ing for 22 years whether he is the man who made
Richard of Kumara or not.
The latest, instance of unpatriotic pro-
Boerism was provided by Mrs. Stout, wife of the
Maoriland Chief-Justice. Opening a Salvarmy
maternity-home in Wellington, she regretted that
the law was so lenient to the male offender in
CONCERNING THE RUMORED CAPTURE OF DE WET.
SMALL BOY (bawling for all he's worth): “ De Wet’s caught.”
those cases which made maternity-homes neces-
sary, and went on to declare that many of the
inmates of the new institution owed their
“trouble” to men who had “cleared out” to
“ fight the battles of the Empire.”
New Vic. Gov. Clarke added himself to
the list of Kipling misquoters by remarking at the
Melb. Mayoral banquet the other night that his
I** rtiS'-fe “poir
? u!Ttle'‘they know of England who oily England
know,” which are not the words of the Empire’s
•poet at all. There is not a public function
wherein the Empire tap is turned on but some
fat person ariseskhereat and „™<,no,ee his own
particular bard.
Speaker Jenkin Coles has now sat m the
chair of S.A. Assembly for 11 a years. Despite
the monotony of the billet, and the heat and bur-
den of the costume, Speakers last long. George
Kingston was Speaker in S.A. for 18 yeai sin aff,
Robert Officer lasted 16 yeans in Tasmania,
Francis Murphy (Vic.) and Maurice O’Rorke
(ML) 14 years each. Arthur M'Alister, of
Queensland, was the most temporary man in the
crowd; his tenancy of the stuffy chair and the
suffocating petticoat only lasted seven months.
Professor Ives, of the Elder Conserva-
torium of Music, Adelaide University, who has
charged Chief Justice Way with trying to induce,
him in ’97 to raise a niece of the latter from class
111. on the pass list to class 1., doesn’t look like a
fighting man. He is slight and brief of stature,
with a sallow complexion, a loose mouth, and
mutton-chop whiskers, and is devoid of any pro-
nounced mental drift or eccentricity. Unlike the
big, hairy, sarcastic, incomprehensible Marshall
Hall, he is not a “personality.” But he has a
square jaw among the colorless features above
enumerated, and there are always possibilities
about the man with the square jaw.
The secret of the stiff and starchy
deportment of the famous Madden frock-
coat seems to have been discovered by a
critical tailor, who watched His Ex.
leaving Melb. Cricket Ground the other
Saturday, and studied his appearance
from every point of view. The Wax.’s
walking waist is achieved, says this ex-
pert, by the womanly device of a band of
webbing, or elastic, passed through
loops inside the back of his immaculate
‘ frock ’ and fastened around the waist
underneath the vice-regal vest, if you
please. There must be cuts in the back
of the vest to admit of the band coming
next to his—linen garment. How easy
and comprehensible the Madden figure
looks when you know how ’tis done !
And how embarrassed the beautiful
potentate would be if he were suddenly
required to take off his coat and make
himself useful at a picnic, say !
“ Veteran ” : Re selection of General
Hutton as Federal commandant. What Australia
wants is an organiser and administrator to give
its army a fair start, and in neither capacity has
Hutton ever been tried. In one case—that of the
Close court-martial—he was more or less respon-
sible for a very bad failure. Apart from the
merits of the case, the court which tried Captain
Close was illegally constituted, in having for
president the Quartermaster-General, an officer
of the permanent staff. The (then) Queen’s
Regulations (which by an Act of the N.S.W.
Legislature have the force of law in that State)
provide that no officer whose name is not on the
roster for ordinary duties can serve on a court-
martial. No staff-officer’s name is on the duty-
roster, and, therefore, if a staff-officer takes part
in a court-martial its proceedings are illegal, and
its findings void. General Hutton apparently
didn’t know this. As for his few months’ experi-
ence in command of a brigade in S’Africa, merely
carrying out the plans of others without any
independent authority, this proves no fitness for
command upon “ his own.” [But think of his gift
of blanky ! — Ed. B.]
After 23
years’ attempt
at colonisation
the Bell family
have finally
abandoned the
Kermadec Is-
lands and re-
turned to
Maorilan d.
The Kerma-
decs are the
islands an-
nex e d by
Vogel to M.L.
some 20 years
back, with a
great flourish
of trumpets.
The departure
of the Bells
leaves a man,
his wife, and
their infant daughter the sole inhabitants. When
the Bells left, a volcano on one of the group was
in active eruption.
Victoria’s two new bishops—Langley, of
Bendigo, and Armstrong, of Wangaratta —are both
Irishmen, though early Australianised. They were
educated, the former at Moore College (N.S.W.),
latter at Geelong and Melb. Universities.
Langley first went to Bathurst, then Orange, next
Balmain, then to St. Andrew’s Cathedral, Sydney.
Bishop Moorhouse brought him over to Prahran
(Vic.) in ’7B, and he left there in ’9O for the arch-
deaconry of Gippsland. Four years later he was
archdeacon of Melbourne. Armstrong’s rise was
more rapid. Leaving the Crown Law department
in ’76 for the Church, he started, in ’Bl, as curate
at the superfine Christ Church, St. Kilda;
became vicar of St. Colomb’s, Haw-haw-thprne,
in ’B3, and left that to succeed Langley in Gipps-
land. A brother of Langley’s is an archdeacon in
Sydney, with a good chance of a bishopric.
W. V. Robinson’s retirement from the
post of clerk of the Victorian Assembly was hailed
with delight by many metropolitan pressmen.
Originally a pressman, Robinson turned dog badly
on the members of his old calling. City reporters
in quest of news could not afford to throw the ink-
bottle at Robinson, but they seldom approached
his lordly “pussun” without being snubbed. In
his wig and knee-breeches, and with his stiff side-
whiskers, Robinson looked as if he had stepped
out of Thackeray’s “ Jeames’ Diary.” He came
out to join the Argus reporting staff from the
Yorkshire Post 40 years ago, and was of the old,
heavy school of newspaper men, who never had to
be reprimanded for spelling a name incorrectly or
putting in a wrong initial. Early in his Parlia-
mentary career Robinson quarrelled with the
somnolent Jenkins of the Leg. Council. Robinson,
being much oftener awake than Jenkins, was
responsible for the bigger half of the animosity
which ensued.
NOT KOSHER.
MRS. SLOOTSKI : “I’ll have to get rid of the new
servant, Abe.”
MR. SLOOTSKI : “ Vy, vat’s de matter.”
MRS. SLOOTSKI : “ Veil, dis mornin’ ven I vent
into de kitchen she vas playin’ ‘Piggy vent
to market ’ mit de paby's toes!”
Oscar Timbrell, aged 17, was run over
recently by a train on the N.S.W. southern line,
and died a few hours later. On being picked up
he said This is a funny place to be lying.”
New South W ales Government is gradually
supplanting the male with female shorthand-
writers and typists ; the rate of pay, commencing
at £125 per annum for a competent girl, is good,
New positions in the Government are constantly
being advertised, and the remarkable fact is that
all the successful candidates have been trained at
one establishment, the Metropolitan School of
Shorthand of this city. This school is conducted
by t!,e United Typewriter and Supplies Co., of
114 Pitt-street, Sydney.*
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE,
u ~ ~ ... „ f
Newman m well - kn °Y n Uweller of 175
Limabeth-st. Melbourne, ns the largest buyer of
°P als > Sapphires, Pear s and other Australian
pms, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to 5,!,1( their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a re P" for «tr.ught-deabng extending over a
period of 40 years which-is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
} , j*, will be followed by direcfc remittance,
is ’ oljcited .
KITCHENER
(From Whyte Melville's “ Centurion.”)
Of Rabbi, scribe, or written law
But little did he know or care ;
Believed in things alone he saw
And trusted harness more than prayer ;
Had lively faith in proven steel
When wielded by a practised hand,
But moral force could hardly feel
Or moral doubts could understand ;
Nor patience found for these, nor ruth,
Who loved on dogmas to refine,
And to the question—“ What is truth V’
Had learned to answer from his youth—
“ A thousand men in line.”


NIACONOCHIE’S
Fresh Herrings
Kippered Herrings
Herrings in Tomato Sauoe
Findon Haddocks
PRESERVED
FISH
OF ALL KINDS.
MARMALADE
UNIVERSAL PICKLES.
BOTTLED FRUITS
POTTED MEATS
SALMON and SHRIMP PASTE.
WORC€ST€RSNIR€ SAUC€
Maconochie Bros., Ltd.
LONDON.
Australian Rbprksbntativrb—
Swift & Co,, 7 Spring St,, Sydney,
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For GOUT and RHEUMATISM.
Professor Immermann, Basle, Professor of Internal Medicine at the University—
-41 Hunyadi Janos has invariably shown itself an effectual and reliable Aperient,
which I recommend to the exclusion of all others. Never gives rise to un-
desirable symptoms even if used continuously for years.”
Average Dose.— A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION.
Note the name “ Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
' ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Label.
Hotel
Ail giro lio
RATES:
12s. 6d. per Day,
and upwards.
For the Summer Season.
The innumerable visitors who have stayed at “ The
Australia” during Summer months have nothing
but praise for this famous Hotel. Ladies with
families obtain every comfort and attention at
a very reasonable cost. The rooms, furniture and
appointments of “The Australia” are unsurpass-
able. The Hotel has been built with every attention
to the needs of the climate. Hence, on the hottest
Summer day, the coolness of its rooms is as refresh-
ing as a cold bath.
J. URE SMITH (Late of Menzies’), Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors. —ln the case of ethnological and
natural-history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific value.
“Trotter” : Between Townsville and
Ingham I met recently a Kanaka and a white
woman stumping it barefooted. They only
carried a small bundle each, and the woman
struck me for flour, tea, sugar and tobacco.
Fancy battling for a nigger !
* * * *
“Wild W.” : He a blind dog working
sheep (“ C.H.R.,” B. 20/7/’01). On- Naranghi
Park Station, Riverina, five years ago, 1 saw a
blind slut work sheep as well as any other dog on
the station. She would run-in the killing-sheep
any time they were wanted. I also saw her in the
yard when we were drafting sheep, and she would
always drive the sheep from the forcing yard
through the race, and keep them running all the
time.
Frank Allan, the Vic.
“bowler of century,” a good
bushman, on one occasion had
jumped down into the bed of
a sandy creek, and while in
mid-air saw a snake beneath
him. His feet landed on
what may be termed the
snake’s neck. He had the
presence of mind to press
down hard into the sand,
the reptile meanwhile
winding itself around
his leg with the idea
of gaining a purchase to draw its
head out. Allan quickly got out
his knife and severed the snake’s
head. His sister, when a child
on a Western district station,
used to go every morning to the
dairy and get a saucer of milk.
At last, out of curiosity, she was
followed and seen to lay the
saucer down beside a huge log; presently a
black snake emerged and began to drink the
milk, the child sitting beside it watching
with interest. There was intense grief when
the snake was dispatched to the home of its
fathers.
* * ■* *
“ Jaynol ” : Be bell-birds. These will
dwell in the same locality for years, perhaps for
life. Fifteen years ago I heard bell-birds on the
road to Lake Tyers (Vic.), and when I re-visited
the place last year the birds were still piping in the
same place. Near Drouin, on the Jindivick-road,
I heard bell-birds in the same half-dozen bushes
for five years consecutively, and where I am now
living I have noted their haunt for four years.
They are only found in small bushy timber. In
South Gippsland they do not affect sapling-
country ; but, as it takes two men to see to the
top of one of our saplings, I would not make any
affidavit on the matter.
Dear Bulletin.— Re Norman Lindsay
having depicted a saddle lying on its flaps. F. P.
Mahony has done ditto, in your Xmas number, in
the picture of an old sundowner asking for a feed.
Again, re those Commonwealth Annual pictures,
what about the one wherein are seen two rows of
shearers hard at it on one floor, in a shed where,
to all appearances, there is room for only one lot
of men ? How are the men on the left to get their
sheep from the pens, and where do the men on the
right let their sheep go to when shorn ? The
shearers on the left are all right, and seem to be
doing good work, but those on the right should, I
think, be on the other side of the shed, and, of
course, out of sight. I may be wrong, as it is not
conceivable that the picture would be hung in the
National Art Gallery of N.S. Wales unless cor-
rect in every detail; yet I should very much like
to see a plan of that shed.—Scar
*•* . •
“Cos.” : Be fast shearing. J. Power cub
315 mixed at Barenya (Q.) in 8 hours. J. Howe
(the previous best for years) shore 321 mixed
sheep in 8 hours 40 minutes, on one of Tyson’s,
Queensland.
* ♦ # #
“ Werrimee ” : You say, “ When you get
the snapshot (of Too lapping water) send it along;
the picture will tell.” But the picture won’t tell.
It will show the ’roo apparently drinking as a
horse or cow does; for the ’roo holds his mouth on
the water, and the tongue darts in and out rapidly
and almost silently—not like a dog’s. Have often
sat, unobserved, close beside them at lignum
holes, and can swear to the lapping. M'Cooey
has probably watched the animal from far off.
[That clattering sound in the distance is the feet
of Mr. M‘Cooey rushing to explain that he has
watched the ’roo from much closer range than
“ Werrimee ” ever did, and that he doesn’t believe
“ Werrimee” ever watched it at all, except out of
a black eye and through the public-house window.!
* » * *
The recent experience of John Thomas
Edwards in Northern Queensland is a remarkable
instance of tough endurance. Edwards, on Dec.
12, left Blair Athol station to go to Alpha, a dis-
tance of 70 miles. There was no water on the
route. He lost the track, and next day was found
nearly mad for want of water and with deep
gashes in his throat and wrist: he had opened his
wrist to relieve his thirst with blood, and had
afterwards cut his throat in despair. What could
be, was done for Edwards, and he was then
carried in a buggy to Pentland, 120 miles distant,
the trip taking three days. He was fed on the
journey with raw eggs and condensed milk. After
a night at Pentland he was sent on to Charters
Towers by train, and he is now recovering in the
hospital there, The men who brought the patient
on to Pentland lost a week’s work, besides under-
going a good deal of privation on the journey.
“M.Q.” : Be bushmen not caring to
shoot “anything that talks.” It is a fact that
cockatoos and kookaburras seem to have got on
the right side of the bushmen. Nevertheless, if a
jackass should get a taste of your chickens he will
take the lot if you don’t shoot him. I recollect
when I was a kid the old man winging one that
had been raiding the chickens. Johnny dropped
into the creek, and the row he made was incredible.
We fished him out and left him on a tree-stump,
whereupon his companions came round him in
hundreds and argued the point from the surround-
ing trees. We watched him until called to dinner,
and when we came back there was not a jackass
to be seen. Even the one with the broken wing
was gone. I reckon they must have an ambu-
lance-society of their own.
NOT THAT FATHER.
THE SHEPHERD : " Don’t you know how wicked it
is, my boy, to play cricket on the Sabbath?
How your Father Above grieves at seeing
you. ”
YOUNG SABBATH-BREAKER : “Oh, dad don’t mind;.
He's all right: he’s umpiring for us! ”
“ Waddy” : Be the trifling
fall that will kill some people :
I know of a case where a half-
witted lad, working in a mine,
fell 80ft. into water. His mate,
in horror, yelled out from the
top, “Jimmy, Jimmy! are ’e
’urt, boy ? ” Echo from bottom
of shaft, “’Urt be hanged 1
Where’s my noo ’at ? ” An-
other case: A tool-boy, with
several picks and drills on his
shoulder, in coming up a rise
having a slope of about 1 in
slipped, and losing hold of the
rope, fell 120 ft., drills, picks,
and boy landing in a heap of
mullock at the bottom. Yet
that boy was away from work
only three days !
* * •
Cockies and other em-
ployers of labor up about Na-
gambie, Vie., and along the
Goulburn, petitioned Premier
Peacock to suspend all relief
works because it was impossible
to secure labor for harvesting.
At time of writing the same
cockies find labor so plentiful
that they can afford to fight a
strike resulting from their
efforts to cut wages from ss. to
3s. 6d. a day, said day measuring
from 5.30 a.m. to 7 p.m.
“ Piccola ” : We were skiting, as usual,
round the fire—this time about dogs. Suddenly
said old Dan : “Don’t tork to me ’bout dawgs.
You or ter seen an old pointer I onct had. One
day I was quail-shootin’ down at Lake George,
when I sees me beauty pointin’ out at the water.
Called ’im off, but ’e wouldn’t come; an’, knowin’
he had brains, I watches. Suddenly a big fish
jumps up outer the water, an’ I drops ’im. Dog
swims out and fetches him in. I opens him, and
finds a lovely fat quail inside. He was a dawg,
that! ” We tried another line.
THERE WAX STILL ROOM-AN ILLUS-
TRATED GUEST NUT.
MR. JONES (from the dtp, at (he Bartgowlahrniuc
dauce): "Is ynur programme full, Miss!'”
BARGOWLAHMINE BELLE: “ No. I only 'rut one
pannikin of tea and a sangwidge!"
“Gamma” : Saw this episode outside a
Westralian goldfields town. Three young men,
savoring strongly of the Salvation Army, had
returned (presumably from a futile endeavor to
obtain food or employment in the town) to the
smouldering heap of ashes that served as their
camp. The swags (with a conspicuous 8 affixed)
lay neatly rolled and strapped. The nose-bags
were slack with emptiness, except that a large
Bible bulged out of one of them. The Jast pinch
of sugar and tea disappeared into the billy, which
bristled like an angry porcupine with rags and
sticks, obviously to prevent the precious liquid
dropping thiough the holes. The mugs were
filled, but before drinking each man knelt down
and loudly prayed. In the middle of the suppli-
cation a blackfellow sneaked into the firelight and
stood over them. “0, Lord,” cried one, desperate
with hunger, “we want ” “Likem gin?”
queried the aboriginal. They paid no attention,
but continued, “food and thy blessings ”
“Gibetn damper?” demanded the unabashed nig-
ger. The eyes of the martyrs turned slowly
towards the barbarian and his feminine vandal,
who was clothed scantily in what had been a
wrapper, but was now a dish-rag. “Depart,
children of Beelzebub ! ” cried the boss
Salvationist. The gin approached, and fanned
their heads with her solitary garment. They
knelt down and prayed with extra vehem-
ence for the conversion of the two black
Philistines. While they prayed the aborigi-
nes drank the tea. I expected an explosion, but
was disappointed. The trio arose ; looked with
grief at the three empty pannikins ; looked with
sorrow at the aboriginal and his “ missus ” ; then
said, quietly, “The Lord’s will be done,” and
took up their swags and departed. And their
colored brother and sister looked after them, and
opined, in their own imperfect language, that they
were persons of deficient intellect.
• * • *
“BobR.”: In eastern Riverina rabbits
are dying in thousands for want of green feed.
Grass is abundant, but it is as dry as a Presby-
terian sermon. Bunny is swarming into the gar-
dens, and even houses, in search of something
nutritious.
THE DIFFERENT-KINDS-OF-GRASSES CONTROVERSY:
ALL ONE TO HIM, AFTER ALL, WHAT GRASS HE SETS.
PROPRIETOR OF PADDOCKS PLANTED WITH ENGLISH GRASSES (critic-
ally): “Yes, that magalum whalum bums better'n better
every year, I do declare!
“ Wiljar ” : Me “ Trotter's ” choice bever-
age (8., 20/7/’01). I have inadvertently used
water out of a station tank in which 1500 sheep-
carcases were rotting, and didn’t notice anything
the matter. Most bushmen will drink anything.
Emptying a wheel-rut in midwinter is often the
preferred alternative to walking 10 chains to a
dam, or drinking out of your hat, to lying on your
belt-buckle with your whiskers in the pond. I
have even seen a gentleman, when dipping up a
load of domestio water once, stand on a bogged
dead bull to do so. But Destiny had a hand in
that.
* * * *
“Waddy”: Ifc is related that away back
in the ’so’s one Bendigo mine was known as the
“Slaughter-house,” by reason of the enormous
mortality through “accidents.” A grue-
some equipment (in this case) was the
flag-pole whereon a half-masted flag
announced a “kill.” Timber
was loaded into the cage as it
moved past the surface, two
men up-ending the sticks.
About 50 per cent, stayed in the
cage, the rest missing it. “No
time to stop,” said the boss,
“and, anyway, it gets to the
bottom ! ” But even in these
days of inspection a huge dis-
tinction is made between, say,
Broken Hill and the usual pros-
pector’s hole. The mine-inspectors
pass anything in the latter case, and
the percentage of deaths of prospectors
from accident is about treble that of the
better-watched mines. Ninety per cent, of
accidents in mines come from familiarity with
danger, and will therefore always occur.
‘‘ Solo ” : Me big Murray cod (B. 15/6/’01).
In ’7B, a German fisherman near Albury used
every morning to find his cross-line (a rope
stretched from bank to bank) minus several hooks
and sinkers, while other hooks had only fragments
of fishes adhering, their remainders having evi-
dently been bitten off. The German concluded the
culprit must be a big fellow, and one evening
made preparations for his undoing : Tied a bell to
c.-l. and camped in boat close by. During night
the bell started ringing, and the German, setting
to work with his special tackling, succeeded, after
a protracted struggle, in getting a 1201 b. cod
aboard, the boat being nearly upset more than
once during the encounter. The big fish was
exhibited at the local show, and sold to the Chows
for £2 (4d. per lb.), but when, on dissecting, they
discovered the cod nearly half-full of old hooks
and sinkers, they loudly proclaimed, with many
“ whaffo’s,” that they’d been grievously diddled.
The same man, some time after, caught an 801 b.
fish that was bigger framed than the 120-pounder,
but stone-blind and poor as a parson. It had no
sinkers inside —nor anything else ! Its captor
reckoned that, but for loss of vision, “he vos go
tarn near 200-veight.” As it was, the fish’s only
hope of a feed must have been to cruise around
open-mouthed, on the off-chance of something
swimming in (there was plenty of room), but its
general aspect sufficiently indicated the poverty
of that game.
* * * *
A curious feature of the big fires which
devastated the N.S.W. Blue Mountains—one of
the chief playgrounds of Australia—was the
method of attack. A fire would start by throwing
out skirmishers, little outposts of flame, in the
midst of the sombre forest depths. Then, with a
sudden rush, there would be an “ enveloping
movement,” and a big patch of country would be
surrounded by a ring of fire, the flames working
A SOFT DRINK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
By the Darling stood a shanty
Kept by well-known Jimmy Oanty
(Where the thirst was never scanty),
And the liquor,
So ’twas said,
Than the fiercest rays from Hades,
Where 800 centigrade is
Winter’s record, and no shade is,
Was far quicker
Striking dead—
Striking thirsty but unseasoned new-chums dead.
It had made the old hands shiver—
Men who’d tramped the Never-Never;
Some sought shelter in the river
When they’d had a
Glass or two.
There was someone always dying,
On the plains white bones were lying,
“ Ratty ” tramps from strange forms flying
Ever madder,
Madder grew,
From effects of Canty’s liquor madder grew.
But, one blazing day in summer,
Came a battered-looking bummer.
Canty eyed the old newcomer
With a frown and
Then a grin,
And he filled the dusty beaker
With his strongest, fiercest liquor,
And the parched one in a flicker
Reached it down and
Took it in,
With a grunt of satisfaction took it in.
Canty reckoned he’d look scary,
But he never turned a hair, he
Sighed ; then, resting on the bar, he
Leaned to Jimmy,
And said he :
“ I believe in bein’ frisky,
But them sort ’er jokes is risky,
An’ nex’ time I pay for whisky
Don’t you gimme
Bloomin’ tea;
You’ll regret it if you gimme station tea.”
N.S.W.
RIVERINA.


CLEARS
the BLOOD
through the
KLDNEYS
SddVK/HDS.,
S3JIQM
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Martin’s Apiol and Steel Pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia, price 4s. 6d.
Agents: Sayers, AlTport, and Potter, Sydney.*
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drhes away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
USED IN THE ROYAL HOUSEHOLDS.
‘CEREBOS SALT
Besides being the most Dainty, Dry, and Economical
Table Salt, “Cerebos” contains the strengthening and
constitution building properties which are wanting
In White Bread, owing to the removal of the Bran.
It is, therefore, invaluable in the daily food of
growing children, delicate mothers, and all brain
workers.
Wholesale Agents .-HARRISON & ATTWOOD, 334 and 336, George Street, SYDNEY.
Sold by Grocers and Stores.
inwards in the centre. Or a long, straight line of
flame would cut deep into the heart of a stretch of
valley and hill, following a path direct as the
flight of an arrow. If there were fences of dry
timber on the mountains an explanation would be
simple—that the fire followed the easily-combus-
tible material—but there is no such work of civi-
lisation in these wild glens. In one house the
three children had been attacked by typhoid
fever; two died, and the third, whilst fighting
hard for life, had to be removed from the place
which was threatened by the forest fires. Many
gullies were turned to roaring furnaces, and much
of the mountain beauty of fern and flower des-
troyed. It will be a long time before the beauty-
spots, that are now mostly ashes, recover their old
loveliness.
* * * *
“ Mulga Jack”: I see in last week’s
Bulletin where “Jack-a-Clubs” contradicts
“ Banjo ” about the calf. He says that any stock-
man with a grain of sense and a mouth can imitate
the plaintive calling of a young calf. That is
quite true ; any fool can do that, but they can’t
imitate it so as to draw the cow’s attention to it
I have seen it tried, and it is a failure. I have
seen another way tried which will sometimes fetch
the cow, if she is an inexperienced cow and it is
her first calf. Take a young calf to the place
where you think the calf is planted, then sool a
dog on to it and the decoy will start bellowing for
all it is worth. Then, as I said before, if it’s her
first calf she might come, but the old married cow
of long-standing won’t. Let a cow plant her calf
in a paddock where there is a thick scrub, and
“ Jack-a-Clubs” could go bellowing about for a
week and not find it. The best way to find it is
to watch the cow all day.
* * • *
“ Canip ” : Have often seen gohannas feed-
ing on a living (bogged) bullock. The brutes
seem to get maddened with the taste of warm
blood, and very often show fight when disturbed.
Miss “ Unie ” Russell is probably the one
and only golden-haired girl in Melbourne who,
having been fully equipped for a start in theatrical
life, and accustomed to receive compliments,
verbal and vegetable, is not yet dying to go upon
the stage. As a juvenile in abbreviated frocks
she was a “ star ” among the multifarious members
of the Misses Hyams’ dancing classes, and the
accomplishment has grown on Miss Russell until
now that she is just out of her ’teens her every
pose and gesture is naturally graceful. The
ordinary stage-struck amateur of the same age
tries in vain to start where Miss Russell
leaves off. Mrs. G-. B. Lewis took the damsel
to task years ago, and a long course of
training has given strength and reach to her deli-
cate voice inflections. She has beautiful, silver-
plated tones. The other afternoon, when she
appeared in some scenes from “Romeo and
Juliet,” at Melb. Princess’s, for Mrs. Bracy s
benefit, Miss Russell looked and talked very like
an angel. Nevertheless she made what was prac-
tically her debut as an actress under the
most unfavorable conditions. It was easy tor
her to be charming, but impossible to be
quite convincing. No scenery to assist the illu-
sion, no time in which to begin to live the charac-
ter, and nothing but a little drawing-room chair to
fall against when agonies of despair were required
of her. Had she been in the mood for violent
agitation the fear of upsetting that light-comedy
chair must have given pause to the experienced
young amateur. As a matter of fact, Miss Russell
was within a few hours of falling seriously ill
when she appeared at the Bracy matinee, bhe
scored a success because her pluck is equal to her
talent, but at some future time, no doubt, this
dainty young Australian artist will reveal the
dramatic fire that is in her soul or her brain, or
wherever the dramatic fireplace may be.
“ Long-
Un”: A
word about
the cost of
living in the
bush. Can
only speak
from experi-
ence gained
amongst
small pa r-
ties, when
the average
expense per
man is about
Bs. weekly.
But itall de-
pends on the
cook. We
once had a
daisy, who
purchased
a 7-guinea
stove and a
2-guinea
meat safe.
Didn’t he
dish us up !
One day we
had no less
than 11 sorts
of jams,
pickles,
sauces, etc.,
on the table.
Pies and
b 1 a n c -
manges ga-
lore, and all
on 10s week-
ly allowance
per man.
When we
moved on it
took five
men to hoist
the stove in-
to the wag-
o n. We
camped
again in
country
o v er- r u n
with hares,
and worked
out the ra-
ti o n ac -
counts with
the result-
-308. a man
in debt, and
another four
weeks to the
end of the
quarter.
Then we
lived on
hare, and
went very
slowly ; so
that at the
end of the
quarter,
when the
camp broke
up, we each
had 2s. 6d.
d i v idend.
The cook
sold the
stove and
safe for £6
cash, and
v anished.
Writer re-
ceive d a
MISS UNIE BUSSELL (of Melb.), a charming amateur actress and dancer.
Photo, by Falk.
piece of blue paper months after on account of
same stove, etc , which the duff-man had bought
on his own responsi-bility, but not paid for.
KISSES and SIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AffISS now 1 while the girl is handy,—
C? You can’t when she’s far away;
Sin now! lest your life be sandy,
Oasisless and gray.
Kiss now! while the chance stands coyly,
And lingereth at your side ;
He who waits on the church step oily
May wait in vain for his bride.
Sin now ! before gloom and fatness,
And their greasy kith and hint
Have filled your years unth flatness,
And you know not how to sin.
Kiss now! while the girl's complacent;
Kiss now! before love is cold ;
Kiss now! while her mouth’s adjacent;
Kiss now! while her hair is gold.
Sin now 1 you are growing older;
Throw off all unmanly fears ;
The greyest ghosts that moulder
In the vale of our latter years
Are the haunting apparitions
Of the sins we contrived to miss,
The uncommitted transgressions—
The girls that we didn't hiss!
GRANT HERVEY.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
A T o notice will be taken oj communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
J.M. : Two verses printed to convey various
woeful warnings (metrical and otherwise) —
We’ve shouted “ Rule Britannia,”
We’ve sung “ God Save the Queen,”
Oom Paul has cut and run now from the south ;
But with all the boasted shillings
Placed in the tambourine,
We swaddies now have “ nix ” to fill our mouth.
Our patriotic feeling
Rose at the empire’s call
We gave our all and never acted mean ;
With empty stomachs, reeling,
We helped to roll the ball,
And proudly sang we’re “ Soldiers of the Queen.”
G. Hervey: Why don’t you take more care
with your rhymes and metres. When you do you
write ‘AI. When you don’t you write Z 2, or there-
abouts. Most .of last batch accepted W.N.
(Walgett): Good item.... Nymsie : “ l)org ”is humorous,
but metre is rougher than the outside wall of
an alligator... .War in S’Africa : You have a fine gift of
blasphemy.... Alone : Will print “ Whiskers.”.... Maggie
S : The humorous one is the better, but is hardly up to
the mark at that Point Blank: Too long for the
interest M.R.P.: All very true ; but it’s no use heaving
logic at the man-in-the-street Walter W. : Should
have gone into quarter of the space... .L. Crool (or some-
thing): Your “first attempt at verse.” For Heaven’s
sake, let it be also your last!... .P.S.W.A. : Two will pro-
bably appear shortly; others unsuitable. Can’t use
nom-de-plume “ Quilpen ” in Bulletin, “ Quilp N.”
being already appropriated.... Maggie : Hardly enough
in them Cvmro: Can’t say till we see them.
As you begin 'by asking such questions, you can
probably supply nothing suitable... .Pro Bono Publico :
How many great men and great occasions have very small
poetry made about them.... J.G. : The dictionary says
that couch-grass is Agropyrum repens, and not paspalum
dilatum, and it is a sober, well-educated die... .Sandfly :
Thanks... .Oondatnine : Haven’t been able to use much
of it E. Leo : Sorry can’t go into such detail re
teachers’ grievances. Your long letter is only fit for a
technical paper —or a daily with space to waste... ,G.A. :
Diamond not bad yarn but far too long. . . .S.W.H. : You
can’t hope to express in verse an opinion on present
N. politics : the position calls for riotous and dis-
orderly language.... Finty B. : Some merit, but quite
unsuitable for Bulletin The Savage : Accepted
W.J.T. (W.A.) : The connection between Jingoism and a
Westralian mining lease is hard to see.... A.8.C.: “Miss”
B. committed bigamy when she married A. , and the mar-
riage was quite illegal, and any issue of it illegitimate.
She is, in the eyes of the law, the wife of C., and has no
claim on A Eph. : Humorous story of the man who
shouted so much on Mafeking Day that his gutteral notes
afterwards made people violently assault him as a blanky
Boer, declined, with regret D.C.G.: Treated more
skilfully, it might pass ; as it is, leaves a rather unplea-
sant taste in the mouth... .R.J.: Style all right, but
episode too thin P. Farrell: Sorry our “rotten
notions” pain you so much, but what must stick in the
gizzard of any reasoning creature is the snuffle and cant
of this war, the talk about “ vindicating the New Testa-
ment” and “saving the poor S’African nigger.” If
Britain had said straight that the Transvaal pie was too
big and too rich for the digestion of the Boers, and
reached out for it like an honest and respectable brigand,
there would have been much less room for criticism, for
international politics are mostly brigandage.... .Vic.-
West ’ Story of how you met the Devil in a railway car-
riage, and he read the Xmas Bulletin with sorrow, is
very interesting ; but is it true ?.... Hamer : Blinds too
thin; considering V.C M.H. : Considering
O. : Subject already dealt with. Besides, your
poem is full of expensive libels.... J.R.: In our opinion
French would be a good man to lead the contingent: he
is an amiable old gentleman and might keep farm-burning
patriotism within some limits Ikey : Your strange
collection of “facts” has only one bright fiction—that a
new-chum tried to fell trees on to his bullock-dray to
save time. ‘ ‘ Wanderer ” has a glimmer of merit, but too
diffuse ..J.H.: “Looking Forward" dull and heavy;
and to rhyme “ weary ” with “ sincerely ” is an outrage.
HW : Insipid Andys: Not good enough
johnny P. : Good idea, too roughly rhymed.... Echo :
Forceless Nina: May do Kelpie: Possibly....
Yarrum: Boarding-house coffee too thin and muddy.
Prospector: Not of very vivid interest......
R. 0.: Declined... .Milah: Not up... .P.C.C.: Good item.
Previous answer meant that rejection was owing to the
manner, not the matter.. ..Robert T.: You ignore the
fact that the A. N. A. has grovelled to the Imperial fetish
more than many who are British-born and only Australian
by adoption. If it only lived up to its name and theories,
what a difference there would be. And your theory that
some members of The Bulletin staff are soured because
they are not eligible for admission to the A.N. A. is too
wildly funny Robert Brothers.: You say, by way of a
jibe at the'woman voters of Maoriland : “The liquor
traffic will never be put down by Prohibition.’ You
might add that murder, burglary and embezzlement will
never be put down by prohibition. But, like drink, they
may be diminished by prohibition Uloola : Will con-
sider. ...Wild Bee : “Time” good ; “ Smell ” rejected....
M. : “ Bush Lovers ” accepted Savage : After much
thought “Mere Man” seems rather too mere—also too
mean... .Anon : Indignant complaint: “ Could anyone
with a grain of business sense suppose that an article
priced at 50s. would be sold at 7s. 6d ? By such a remark
you throw scorn and contempt on the Jews”—duly
noted ...G.M. : Very crude; you will require a lot of
practice yet... Trooper : A Xmas dinner dream, presum-
ably Wanderer: Unsuitable Blue Hill: Shows
skiil, but not suitable for B Wyoming : “ Life’s Road-
way” is too sloppy and wants metalling. “Country’s
Cause ” will d 0... .Traveller: Glad to hear that Yalpunga
in January, when the rains fall, “is a lovely spot ; trees
and the earth covered with wild flowers and the music of
bleating sheep making a perfect Arcadia.” But January
is only one month, and the rains don’t always come
GC : “Cigarette” worthless Nina Jeanne: Boer
item well - written, but nothing very novel in it.
A. Cameron: An industry doesn’t need Protec-
tion as a rule, if only the wages paid are low enough.
The agricultural laborer is the worst-paid laborer m
N. and his wages have been getting lower of late
years ; also his employer, the cocky-farmer, is often con-
tented to make less than the pay of a city scavenger.
And the State protects or subsidises the industry by
carrying agricultural produce at about half the rate
charged on most goods, and at not over half cost.
With this State aid and miserably cheap labor, agriculture
has made headway of late without Protection
Gerald M. B.: Nothing bevond neat phrases in either of
them... .‘R.A.K. : Lacks energy. Best spot is where the
family, having missed the train, “ sadly took their clothes
off." V.G.K. :No method, no thought, nothing
Borroloola : Probably use ; glad to hear from you again ;
send your name and address... .R.H.: Sent-to Josephine.
Too luscious for an after-Xmas palate W.M.: Small
idea, worth 20 words, and you send nearly 2000 H.E.:
Not strong enough.
A Sportsman in Peril.
A sportsman well-known in Toolern and Melton
recently came near to losing his life in an extra-
ordinary manner (says a contemporary). The
gentleman in question, Mr. William Byrnes, of
Melton, when interviewed, said that trapping
and shooting had occupied most of his time till
two years ago when consumption and hip disease
came on. He gradually became pale and
emaciated and was weakened by a distressing
cough. At last he had to take to bed and was
subsequently removed to the Melbourne Hospital
where the diseased hip was operated upon, but he
still continued to decline and the phys'eians said
his disease was incurable. Indeed, on one
occasion a minister was called in as he seemed at
his last gasp ; but he lingered on. Then his
relatives, impressed by the number of local cures
effected by Dr. Williams’ pink pills, began
administering them to him. These pills enriched
his blood and in this way began to abate the
consumption ; little by little he gained strength
and by further steady pel-severance with Dr.
Williams’ pink pills he became cured. Now he is
actually free from every symptom of consumption
and is so well and strong that.he goes away camp-
ing and shooting in the bush for days together.
By replacing the lost blood and increasing the
resistent power of the lungs Dr. Williams’ pink
pills cure consumption and other lung troubles.
They also cure debility, neuraltria, rheumatism,
diarrhoea, kidney and liver troubles, insomnia,
nervous exhaustion in men, etc. ; sold by chem-
ists and storekeepers and by the Dr. Williams’
Medicine Co., c/o Rocke, Tompsitt & Co. Flinders
St., Melb., two and nine; six boxes fifteen and
three, post free. When purchasing mind you
ask for Dr. Williams’ ; imitations dyed pink
cannot cure consumption or anything else.


THE SOLDIER’S RETURN-or, “THE BULLETIN’S” IDEAL HENNIKER HEATON.
IF, INSTEAD OF SACRIFICING HIS WIFE'S RELATIONS BY CABLE, HE HAD MADE A "SPLENDID OFFER” OF HIMSELF!


THE PRIME MINISTER CHRISTENS THE BABY.


A. SAUNDERS.’
%
■Amnxß*
lOOOR
FREETRADE
PRICES.
NO'
advance*
A. SAUNDERS.
(Strong, Reliable LEVERS, “ The Ch allenob, 15s.
The unrivalled Lever, in Black or Nickel, 20s {
£2 10s £3. Rotherham LEVERS, £8 10s, £4, £,
£8 Gold WATCHES, £4 4s, £5 ss, £6 6s,
£7’ loa’ £lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O. Mind, -we guarantee
you the utmost satisfaction, “ otherwise we will
} exchange watch for you ’
Send for illustrated book of particulars, post free.
Solid Gold CHAIN (Single °r Dotible), £2 10s £3,
£q i rja £i £4 10s. £5. 15ct. Solid Gold, £o lus, t-o f
To, loj £7%B r £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Send ior Price Illustrated Book.
A. SATJMDEBS.
S-Bar Gold, Diamond Cut Amethyst, 22s 6d J loot.
Gold, £2.
Registered Gold Amethyst BROOCH,
Set Bird, 22s 6d j lßot. Gold, S 2.
15ct Gold Bar and Scroll BBOOUii. 1
1 Stone, Sss; quite new.
BROOCH, Pearls and Red
m
A. SATINDERS.
Poßt Card Gold CHARM, 10s
Any Name Free.
Silver, gilt, 5s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold LOCKET, 15s
15ct. Gold, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Dinna Forget,
10s 6d.
Our Own Registered
Design.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ot. Gold, 2 Hearts, Diamond,
and Ruby, 355; 2 Diamonds, £2 6s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ot. Gold Shield LINKS,
10b 6d; Silver, 2s 6d.
A. SATJNDERS(B,e*i»-
tered) Gold LINKS, 20a ;
15ct. Gold, 82a 6d; Silver and
Gold, 10b ; all Silver, 6s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Shield and
Dumbbell LINKS, 12s 6dj
15ct. Gold, 255;
Silver, 8s 6d.
9ot. Gold Stone
RING, 10s j
3 similar patterns.
A. SAUNDERS.
ro o on«t*re<D Gold Secret Name BROOCH*
lsct. Gold, Diamonds, £2 10a, £3, £4. Any
Name or Motto Free.
Six different patterns, similar.
A. SAUNDERS.
latest Secret Name BROOCH, Red or Blne
Stone, Three similar patterns, 20e and 2as.
Any Name Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
026 Latest Half Moon and Star Gold
BROOCH, Pearlette, Pearls and Red or Bine
Stones, 21s; 15ct. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold BROOCH, 2 Hearts, 2 Bars,
Diamonds, 11s 6d ; very neat.
sdh
A. SAUNDERS. . „
New Motto Registered Gold *‘ Duma. Forget
BROOCH and Amethysts, fict. Gold, 17s 6d ,
15ct. Gold, 80s; 18ct. Gold, 86s.
A. SAUNDERS.
jjot, t-Bar Pore Diamond Double Cut, *2.
15ot. Gold BROOCH, 2-Bar Scroll, Diamond and.
Kuby Bet, £2; very choice.
&
“V
A. SAUNDERS.
Newest Solid Gold Name BROOCH, Ts 6diw
iSterf Blowers eaoh side (A *7?°**) lU -
Gold, 16s; Latest Style.
with
A. SAUNDERS.
Extra Strong 15ct. Gold, Diamond* Robte* and
Pearls, £8 5s 5 Five Diamonds, £4, *O.
Watches, Clocks, Jewellery, and Silverplate at FKEETIIADE PRICES.
Saye 25 per cent, to 50 per cent. Showrooms: 815 GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
S?
m
ladies’ Curb Gold
Snap Padlock, 255, 80s,
85s, £2 ss, £8; 15ot. £2los,
£B, £4, £4 10s, £5, £6, £7
10s, £B, £9, £lO.
10s extra for Key Pad-
lock.
All with Safety Chain
A. SAUNDERS.
Bamboo Gold BRACELET, aU the style, price according to
width, 20s, 255, 80s, £2, £2 10s; 15ot. Gold £3, £4, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
DIAMOND BRACELET, 15ot. Gold, three Pure Double
Cut Diamonds, with Safety Cham, £5.
9ct. Gold Square or half-round BRACELET, 8 Red
Blue Stones, £2 ; very neat and cheap.
A.. Dxx. U
Nioely Chased Gold BRACELET, 25s ; very neat and pretty.
THE FEDERAL TARIFF.
THIS I HATE ANTICIPATED.
MY CASH PURCHASES have been
enormous, and I am in a position
to sell at FREETRADE PRICES.
£32,000 worth of Watches, Jewellery,
and Silverplate to choose from. It will
save yon 25 per cent, to 50 per cent.
This Is a consideration. *
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Wish Bone and Arrow, with Red
Stone, 12s 6d.
sSI
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Bar, Raised Flowers, 5s 6d; Larger,
6s 6d; Largest size, 7s 6d.
These are indeed very pretty.
A. SAUNDERS
2-Bar and Garnet BROOCH, 15s, larger
size, 21s; very strong and neat.
ill
Gold 2-Bar Ivy Leaves, Chain and Heart.
10s 6d ; very neat.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Mizpah BROOCH, 2 Hearts, 10s
larger, 12s 6d; a nice Brooch.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Solid Gold, Pure Double Cut
Diamonds, £lO.
9ct. Gold, two Twisted Bars, Bell and Chain,
12s 6d; Amethyst Heart, 13s 6d.
nna O Q Q
Gold 2-Bar BROOCH Beroll, Pearl Set with Red
Stone, 20s.
' 4®- ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Silver Hunting Keyless, 255, 30s, £2,
£2 10s, £3.
Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £B, £4. £s*
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
ALL GUARANTEED.
11
14.
15
12 13
A. SAUNDERS’
FREETRADE PRICES.
10. Round LINK, 9ct. Gold, £2, £2 10s,
£3 ; 15ct., £4, £5.
11. —Rope Pattern, 9ct. Gold, £2, £2 10s,
£3 ; 15ct., £4, £5.
12 —Curb Pattern, 9ct. Gold, £2, £2 10s,
£3; 15ct., £4, £5.
18. —Rope and Ball, 9ct. Gold, £2, £2los,
£3: 15ct., £4, £5.
14. —Curb and Link, £3, £4, £5, £6.
15. —Chain and Rondfdl £4 to £7 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Pearl and Turquoise
Floral and Ribbon BROOCH,
£2 10s.
London’s Newest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Pearl and Turquoise
Heart BROOCH, £2 2s.
The Latest Style.
sdh
A. BAUN DEBS’ latest Tarquoi* ud Curb Gold Chain Padlock Bracelet, the very latest London style, £2lss.
In nice Silk Case.
lßcfc. Solid Gold Opal IJMKS,
with Initial, £2loa.
Extra Strong.
A. BAUNDEBS.
Chased, 9ct. Gold,
large sise LINKS, 22a od.
flam, *<■. or with initials
nioelyohased, 22a 6d;
18ot Gold, £2 ; SArer, 4s Cd.
A. SATINDEBS.
Gent.’f Full Set of STUDS, link Collar
Stud, and 8 Fronts, 9ct., 80s.
ftiTniW style, 85s and 80s {
16ot. Gold, £2, « 10% 15*.
Alii FBEETRAIDB
Solid Gold Turquoise
and Pearl, 20s.
Newest Style.
PRICES.
Misp&h Gold
CHARM, 4s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Hearts, 12s 64;
15ct. Gold, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Solid Gold LINKS.
Plain 17s 6d, 20s, 255;
15ot. Gold, £2, £2 ss, £2 10s.
Monogram, 2s 6d extra.
Gold Shield Link and
Dumbbell, 16s 6d ]
15ot. Gold, 80s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Signet Plain RING,
it. Gold, 20s, 25s : 15ct. gold,
80s, 85s; 18ot., £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Solid Gold,
Pure Double Cut Dia-
mond, £8;
other size stone, £8 10s,
£4, £6.
18ct, Solid Gold,
3 Opals, 4 Diamonds, £5;
Smaller Diamonds,
£2 10s, £i, £Blos, £4.
18ct. Gold Buckle RING,
Diamond,
and 2 Rubies or
Sapphires,
£2 10s.
18ot. Solid Gold Diamond
Bind, £2, £2 10b, £8 ;
15ct. Gold, 80s.
18ot. Buttercup
Single stone Diamond
BING,
£B, £4, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold,
8 Pure Diamonds,
S Opal Hearts, £4los.
Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Band,
Opaljl7g6dl
18ot Gold, £2. ’
Send for Siie Card.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Solid Gold,
6 Pure White Double
Cut Diamonds,
£6.
Splendid Yalue.
GENT.’B RING.
Solid Gold, Amethyst, 25f
15ct. Gold, £2;
18ct. £2 10s.
18ot. Gold Extra Strong,
Diamond, and 2 Red
Stones, 255.
15ct. Gold, Diamond,
and 2 Red Stones, 20s.
18ot. Solid Gold,
Extra Strong and Hea
1 Diamond, 2 Bed or
Stones,
£2, £S 10s, £3, £4, £5
18ot. Solid Gold
MARQUIS RING,
Diamonds and
Rubies, Sapphire and
Opal Centres,
£lO, £l2 10s, £l6, £2O.
18ct. Solid Gold,
6 Pure Diamonds,
£8 10s, £lO. £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O, £25, £BO.
Smaller, £5, £6, £7,
£7 10s, to £BO.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, 6 Opal»,
First-olass, £2 10s J
Size larger, extra
good, £8 108.
dsh
sdh
A. SAUNDERS.
Hand-made Wedding RINGS and KEEPERS.
Oct. Solid Gold, 7s 6d, 10s each; 16ot. Gold, 16s;
extra heavy, 25s j 18ot. Gold, 20s ;
extra heavy, 80s, 85s, 40»., 50s. Send for card.
CAIjIj AND SEE OUR JEWELLERY EXHIBITION-A
L SEND FOB OUB 1901 COMPLETE ILLTTSTBATED FBEETBADE PBIOE 800 ,
SPLENDID DISPLAY;
POST FBEE ANYWHEBE.
A. SAUNDERS,
LEADING ART JEWELLER,
815 & 817 GEORGE-ST.,
Nearly Opposite
Railway Station.
SYDNEY.


Banking, Public Companies,<
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
1?
<5
BILLS
discounted.
axr.s/w.
[Qont deplete Co., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
*74. CASTLEREAGH ST., >74.
* SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manages.
'-THE-.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. O. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.O. ; Bruuk Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,491,989.
Policies issued 85,372 —assuring £26,085,346.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,576,850.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses —equitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARE, A.1.A., General Manager.
file Bank of |)orth Queensland
UAHTKI'.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... £700,00 J
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250 000
£350,000
Queensland Smelting (Jompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough
DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
JJ Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
Hern Zealand insurance Qo.
FIRE and MARINE.
CAPITAL £1,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES .. 420,000
Largest Colonial Company.
J. A. MiNNETT, 81 pj tt gt., Sydney.
Tb* TrGstccs, €*€cGtors,
AND
AgsoCV Conjpaijy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED
CAPITAL PAID-UP
RESERVE LIABILITY
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business)
Amount; at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 30th June, 1901 i
£160,000 0 0
£90,000 0 0
£150,000 0 0
£BB5B 7 3
6,388,976 5 3
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROVVMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manage!
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMITED.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £385,187
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 245,119
RESER VE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 55,000
£685,306
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Ass. Mngr., VV. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE : 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guaran tee
Vo. Ltd. of London.
. The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. of the Colonies.
Dire jtors—Sydney : Sir VV. M'Millan, Hon. A. W. Meeks.
Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq. • Wellington : H.
Beauchamp, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar ; Wellington, N.Z., G. M. Montefiork.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £15,000, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties,
and £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholder* 600,000
Total Capital - .. £2,500,000
LADIES.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FB BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Ann»«aa— 300 Collins St., Melbourne
Shipping.
HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Leura, Saturday, Jan. 11,12 Noon.
Bunihyong, Tues., Jan. 14, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Sat., Jan. 18, 12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Gabo, Tuesday, January 21, 6 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
■Gabo, Tuesday, January 21,6 p.m.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BtJNDABERG
Peregrine, Sat., Jan. 11,12 Noon.
Burvvah, Tues., Jan. 14, 5 p.m.
Leura, Sat., Jan. 18, 12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MAGKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Peregrine, Sat., Jan. XI, 12 Noon.
Leura, Saturday, Jan. 18, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Cite buildings, corner George and
Wynvard Streets
Wharves —Foot of King-street.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and Go., London).
To Natal, Capetown and London.
(Calling at Plymouth.)
The following magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL. CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows
All the above have splendid accommodation, and will
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
Passengers by this route to London will avoid the heat
of the Red Sea.
Only Ist and 3rd-class passengers carried.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY
Huddart, Parker & go’s tine
MULROUItNR,
LAUNONSTON,
—TO—
HO HA K'l’,
WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZIS ALAND POUTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
HMITE
ai«v
via
San Francisco,
California.
SPLENDID NtW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS,
SIERRA
SONOMA
VENTURA
Over 6000 Tons each.
8000 HP.
Length, 426 feet,
Passengers booked through to American, Canadian and
uropean centres at current rates.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts. SYDNEY.
THE “ALL RED” MAIL ROUTE
TO LONDON.
THE ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
OF THE
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
Under contract with the Governments ot New South
Wales, Queensland, and Canada, leave Sydney every
four weeks as under, for
BRISBANE, HONOLULU, VICTORIA and VANCOUVER.
Connecting at Vancouver with the
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
This is the Imperial Route Home, as well as the most at-
tractive. It avoids alike the heat of the Red Sea and the
cold of Cape Horn. The railroad journey between the
Pacific and Atlantic Oceans (Vancouver to Montreal)
occupies about 4 davs, and is made
WITHOUT CHANGE OF CARRIAGES,
through the grandest scenery in the world—over the
Selkirk and Rocky Mountains, across the Prairies, and
along the North Shore of Lake Superior.
Passengers have the choice of a number of overland
routes, enabling them to visit the principal cities of
Canada and the United States.
For Railway Maps, Guide Books, and all other informa-
tion, apply to
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents.
AN EFFICIENT
FILM CAMERA
THE BROWNIE.
Not a toy. Takes splendid photographs,
2J by 2| inches. Complete with hand-
book of instructions.
KODAKS from 58. to £7 163.
OF ALL PHOTOGRAPHIC DEALERS, or from
KODAK, Limited,
The Block, SSlf Collins Street, Melbourne.
Send (or illustrated price list and mention this
paper
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
TOOTH
POWDER
IS THE BEST DENTAL
PRESERVATIVE.
Has the Largest Sale of any Dentifrice.
Sold by Chemists, Stores, &c.
F. C. CALVERT & Co,, Manchester, Eng.
TIME TABLE.
THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
]NT. ID. 3L-.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin screw.
Leaving MELBOURNE Wednesday after Sydney.
REGULAR SERVICE to SINGAPORE,
Via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW
GUINEA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA. ,
G.M.S. STETTIN, 2478 Tons,
LEAVING SYDNEY ON 20th FEBRUARY.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
Publications.
TRICfiOtO&y
A Study of BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, By Dr.
ALFRED NEALE. Posted 7jL
SKIN DISEASES
their Treatment.
Posted Is Id.
Publishers : Turner and Henderson, SYDNEY,
THE BALLET GIRL
sdh
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Hl
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Poet Free, le.
Send stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties.
Madame Panza,—
913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Musical Instruments, Sto.
Cheapest House in Australia for EDISON
NIMUPIS>< RECORDS
REEVES & CO.
KING WILLIAM STREET, ADELAIDE,
“BIJOU,” with 6 Records £1 17 6
EDISON “ STANDARD,” with 24 Records . 5 10 O
EDISON “ HOME,” with 30 Records.. .. 8 10 0
COMBINATION A 1 “ GRAND," taking both
Large and Small Records, with 12 Records,
6 Concert (siin.) Records, and Large Horn 10 10 O
EDISON RECORDS, English and American, 20/- per doi.
CONCERT (6Jin.) RECORDS .. 60/- „
Send for Cata-
logue* contain-
ing 5000 Selec-
tions to choose
from. Illustra-
ted Catalogues
of Electric Fans
(complete with
Battery, £5),
Electric Bike
Lamps, Flash-
Lights,Scarf-Pin
Lights, Vapour
Bath Cabinets,
etc., Free.
Records can
be posted to any
address, postage
1/6 per dosen.
dsf
Machines carefully packed and forwarded to any part of
Australasia.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Warrego,
Friday, January 10i
S.S. Wallowra,
Saturday, January 18
(without transhipmentX
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Rockton,
Friday, January 10.
S.S. Adelaide, (Capt. D, P.
Davies), Saturday, Jan. 11.
Rest and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A.U.S.N. Co. and Howard Smith 00.,
Ld. For Adelaide and W.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE,
Til K PO PULA it PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE— Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton,. Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCK HAMPTON-Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Passenf/et' A ccotninodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO , Ltd., Agents, In Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
D AND O. COMPANY’S
" " ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
* INDIA .. 7911 W. D. G. Worcester, R.N.R.|March 5
* Via Hobart.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B 10s to £/7
Ditto Ditto Return, £7llos to £ 121
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific, and
Messageries Maritimes Steamers having room.
EDWARD TRELAWNY,
63 Pitt-street. Superintendent in Australia.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARK
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract wbhlhe
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows : -
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines. -
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
“E. AND A.” LINE.
. . TO . .
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Steamer. >Tns Commander. iLeare Sydney.
EASTERN .. 3600 Winthrop Ellis .. | January 26
AIRLIE ... 25005 t. John George.. February 16
AUSTRALIAN .. 3000 ,P. T. Helms ...March 16
I I I
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with EVERY CON-
VENIENCE FOR TROPICAL TRAVELLING.
Passengers booked through to points In Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates in con-
junction with the Canadian-Pacific and other Steamship
Companies.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
(n‘|luraith,fn‘Eacharn&Co.
PROP. LTD.
THE FAVORITE STEAMERS
KALGOOELIE, 4500 TONS,
COOLGABDIE* 3500 TONS,
SAIL FORTNIGHTLY between
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, and
West Australian Ports.
fMMiiiijTr Accommodation Unsurpassed. Liberal Cuisine.
MMLWRAITH, M'EACHARN AND CO.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany and Fremantle'
Sydney Agents—BUßNS, PKILP & CO. Ltd.
GENTS.
Ahuk-
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
-L.D.1., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
A POLICY FOR THE
Now Ready.
Price (id. ;
Posted, Sd.
COMMON W€ALTN«


A FREE VETERINARY BOOK.'
.We learn that a most useful Veterinary
Book is attached to every bottle of Gondy’s
Fluid. This Book contains instructions for
curing most of the ailments and accidents
affecting Horses, Dogs, Sheep, Cattle, Poultry,
and Birds of all kinds.
Condy’s Fluid is an absolutely certain cure
for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs,Broken Knees,
Grease, Thrush, Cracked Heels, and Mud
Fever in Horses.—Scab, Foot Rot, Fly, etc.,
in Sheep.—Rinderpest, Hoove, Foul in the
Foot, Wounds and Sores, Foot and Mouth
Disease, and Diarrhoea in Cattle.— Distemper
Mange, Canker, and Eczema in Dogs.
Condy’s Fluid is sold by all Chemists and
Stores. Beware of local substitutes, all are
inferior. Insist on having Condy’s Fluid.
gfd
<3-0 TO HBLL-
I<JOI,ANI> for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei),
foreign stamp importer,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
hats. HATS. hats.
Mountcastls & Quaicfs
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes titted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
BRISBANE.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTCR BRAPL€y # CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art A uctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 321 Georgs Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION 4. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Stiles Held at the Auction Itooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
“ APENTA ”
Natural Aperient Water is the Best Eliminant.
“An ideal purgativ-e’’--The Practitioner.
THE SAFEST AND MOST RELIABLE
HOUSEHOLD APERIENT.
GIVES IMMEDIATE RELIEF.
There is one place in Sydney where the
business of money-lending is carried on in an
equitable manner and where those in need of
financial accommodation can rely on being
decently treated. The sensible man who. wishes
to get rid of his monetary worries at a minimum
of cost and trouble to himself goes to the offices of
the Australian Equitable Investment Co., Ltd.
The co. has a large capital for investment at low-
interest, and is always open to advance money on
risks which the banks would decline; and acts
generally as a medium between the banks and
ordinary money-lenders. Men in business can
obtain assistance for their venture at a figure
which will leave them a fair profit for themselves.
The co. advances money to any extent on .deeds of
land, bond warrants, merchandise, stock in trade,
scrip, interests under wills, furniture and all classes
of security. Press notices which have been pub-
lished from time to time express the favorable
opinion which generally exists regarding the co.
Mr. J. E. O’Brien is the Managing Director, and
the co.’s offices are at 45 Elizabeth-street, between
King and Hunter-streets.*
OWIdHfIS
‘Km.TB°R
fOR THE COMPLEXION
An emollent, soothing and healing pre-
paration for preserving and beautifying the
skin in all climates; it cools and refreshes
the Face and Arms in hot weather, removes
Freckles, Tan, Sunburn, Redness and Rough-
ness of the Skin, heals all cutaneous Erup-
tions and Insect Stings, produces
SOFT, VELVETY SKIN,
Imparts a luxuriant beauty to the com-
plexion and a matchless whiteness to the
Neck and Arm 3 unobtainable by any other
means. It has been known for the last 75
years as the most curative and harmless
preparation ladies can use. Ask Stores and
Chemists for Rowland’s Kalydor, of 67,
Hatton. Garden, London.
SIMPSON’S SULKIES & BUGGIES
Work
Lowest Price
Cash
Factory and Showrooms 73 KINO STREET, NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Cardinal Moran, perhaps taking his tip
from The Bulletin, favors Eden-Bombala as the
site of the Federal capital.
Stated that owing to Melbourne printing
shops coming under the minimum wage law a lot
of Victorian work is coining now to cheap “ rat ”
shops in Sydney.
A N.S.W. Labor member talks of pro-
posing, at an early meeting of his party, that any
member who accepts any Ministerial hospitality
paid for out of the public money will be black-
listed for next elections.
Speaking at Wellington lately, Premier
Seddon is reported to have said, “We must
prosecute the war, because all our produce goes
past the Cape, and the route must be kept safe.”
Which, considering that every England-bound
boat from Maoriland goes via the Horn, is not a
bad sample of Jingo ignorance.
The Premier of Holland throws a reveal-
ing lijjht on the true nature of the Boer war when
he points out —
That the courts and aristocracy of Europe are all
friendly to England. The Boers have no friends in the
official world, but the sympathy of the masses with them
is increasing.
United Australia no longer flourishes
Mr. Barton’s name as a director, and, completely
under the Bruce Smith influence, is an avowed
freetrade and black labor organ. It is also very
dull and in places very silly, and there does
not seem to be much prospect of its providing an
exception to the rule with regard to Australian
magazine ventures.
Several Australian State Premiers are
said to have sent in long lists of obscure persons
said to be worthy to receive titles at the New
HOW, INDEED?
“Did you see his funny black face, mummy?”
“Hash, dear, you musn't say that. He is black all over." “How do you know, mummy?”
Year. This is the first time the regular date for
soldering handles on silly people has come round
since Edward VII. became King, and he has
straightway abolished the New Year foolery.
May he go on.abolishing.
How came it that Commandant Scheepers
was tried for ‘‘ murder, arson and train-wrecking,”
as alleged in the cables ? Murder is not an act of
fair war, but surely train-wrecking is an ordinary
enough incident. And, if the British had any
sense of humor,'they would hardly accuse any man
of arson, with lines of smouldering farms extend-
ing on all sides of the seat of judgment.
Official notification :
Mr. Frank Farneli, M.L.A., visiting magistrate to Lord
Howe Island, leaves this evening by the steamer Titus
on an official visit to the Island.
Of course, this work carries no salary, but it
carries expenses, and Mr. Farneli will be the
main, if not sole, judge as to what these expenses
should be.
Daily paper report :
The southern channel on the Clarence River bar has
again closed up, and the-eastern channel, which is not too
good, is the only one available.
How many hundreds of thousands of loan money
has been swallowed by the “ permanent and
reproductive work ” which shuts up in this off-
hand fashion?
It is reckoned, though the reckoning
seems a little doubtful, that as much as £60,000 a
year was involved in the dispute between the
Federal Customs department and the foreign
steamship companies. If the amount was even
half of that it represents a capital value of
£1,000,000, and this country can’t afford to drop
a million on anybody’s doorstep just now without
good cause.
Reply given by Imperial authority to
representations as to the advisableness of appoint-
ing Australians as State Governors is always, in
effect, a repetition of that conveyed to Canada iu
1882—“ That the appointment of a colonial would
weaken the tie with the Mother Country.” Yet
some local snobs are keen on having an English
peer as Australia’s High Commissioner ! When
we have an Australian Governor-General, but not
before.
Premier Peacock is still understood to say
that he will introduce his Bill for the reduction
and reform of_ Vic. Parliament “next session.”
And as it is to include a clause providing that all
Council electors shall be eligible to sit in the
Upper House, and thereby destroying the exclu-
sive privileges of the present gang of Landlords,
the Council will joyfully throw it out next
session. And Peacock, it is pretty safe to wager,
will take the insult quietly next session, if there is
any Peacock left by then.
Adelaide Critic asks indignantly “ what
chance is there for the unemployed to get work
during next year if the tramways” (i.e., Snow’s
privately-owned tramway scheme) “are not carried
out ?” Well, if the unemployed depend on build-
ing tramways for the Snow syndicate to keep
them alive next year, where do they come in the
year after ? If this country has got into such a
state that it can only keep a large section of its
workers temporarily out of the benevolent asylum
by getting them public works to build for foreign
money-lenders, where is this great country going
to?
The Australian cohentingent to go Boer-
baiting in a few weeks is so small that even
Jingoes admit its main purpose is to refute the
widely-printed Continental statement that Aus-
tralia is tired of the game. But when this coun-
try, after being specially requested, sends an
insignificant handful of men, and doesn’t pay
them, and Britain only gets them by giving more
than four times the wage of the best paid regular
soldier in the world, and more than most of them
could make at any other occupation, things
wear a tireder look than before the cohentingent
was offered.
At Grafton (N.S.W.) an old couple found
it couldn’t get a pension because the husband had
earned over £52 in the twelve months previous to
date of application. The Board acted strictly
according to law, and if auy old person could live
this year on the £1 a week he was earning last
year the law would be strictly logical. As things
are, when an ancient party loses his job at 30s. a
week, and is too venerable to get another, he has
to put in several months starvation before he
qualifies for a pension. And the mill, even if it
is a windmill, grinds very slowly with the water
that is past.
Kipling’s demand for conscription in Great
Britain is only a foreshadowing of what must
cpme. It takes many tons of Tommies to keep up
the Imperial theory nowadays, and Britain has
only cwts. Kipling, by the way, charges Britain
with “fawning” on its dependencies in order to
get reinforcements. Query: Does the outside
world look on all the contingents as a sign of the
strength and unity of the empire? Or does it
regard them as showing that the British army is
so run down that it can’t crush a handful of Boers
without assistance? Kip. seems to fear lest it
takes the latter view.
Judging by Marconi’s recent experiments
with wireless telegraphy between. America and
Europe the time is really not far off when the old
pole-and-wire telegraphs will go to their long
home in the scrap-heap. Then another £3,000,000
of this country’s loans for “permanent and re-
productive works ” will become temporary and
unproductive. Every debt should have a sinking
fund attached, because everything becomes, in
time, as obsolete as a dead civil servant’s salary,
or a contingenter’s 4s. 6d. Even the railway debt
shouldn’t be permanent; the railway will pro-
bably be deader than the ox-waggon before this
century is over.
Maoriland Farmers’ Union, the only Tory
organisation with any power in Maoriland, has
thrown away the one weapon with which it might
have done damage to the Seddon Govt. At the
Southland Conference some one arose to move that
“All foreign borrowing should cease.” He got a
seconder, and that was all. Hairy individuals
with . Scawteh names arose to point out that bor-
rowing, was a good thing, that it brought siller
and guid goold tae tha’ coontry, and in time the
lucre filtered intae the haunds o’ the farmers.
And then the meeting arose and waved its kilt
enthusiastically. Maoriland has begun to go it
madly in the way of loans. In 1891, its borrow-
ings were under £400,000. In 1901 they were
£1,746,141 —the worst record for 20 years.
While Seddon is
hurrying off another Maori-
land contingent to aid in the
war on women and children
in S’Africa, there are many
indications that the State
finances are drifting into a
bad condition. For in-
stance, Napier, one of the
Auckland city members,
has just pub 1 ished a re-
monstrance in connection
with the money still due to
the volunteers who par-
ticipated in the great mili-
tary display at Christchurch
in honor of the York visit
last June. Even the very
schoolboys were gathered
from all parts of the
country, and their promised
expenses are still unpaid.
Also, returned cohentin-
genters, it is alleged are
unable to get “squared-up.”
On top of the lot comes the
“sacking” of a thousand
co-operative workers, with-
out notice, at the very
time when they wanted to
earn their Xmas cheques. Jingoism is sickbed
oyer in all directions by the sordid row about the
bill and the shabby little quarrel about the odd
copper.
The proposal to hold a conference of State
Premiers and one or more Federal Ministers over
the Property Acquisition Bill moved one Sydney
paper to point out the grievous fact that no con-
stitutional channel is provided whereby the State
and Federal Ministers may communicate when
they have remarks to make to each other. This
is sad—it is almost heart-breaking, in fact. The
makers of the Constitution assumed that when
any question arose on which State and Federal
Ministers wanted to confer, they would write, or
ring each other up, or wire, or send a messenger
round to make an appointment. And tl ey
should have arranged that if Federal Trea-
surer Turner wanted to consult with N.S. W. State
Treasurer Waddell, he would instruct his secre-
tary to write to his chief, Barton, and Barton
would communicate with the Governor-General,
and he. would lay the matter before the N.S. W.
State Governor, and the latter would inform
N.S.W. Premier See, and See would inform
Waddell, and Waddell’s answer would ramble
back to Turner in the same fashion.
A Sydney correspondent :
Mr. Edwards, S.M., gave a woman recently
one month’s hard labor without the option
for assaulting a policeman. Mr. Edwards
ought to retire.
Wrong—Mr. Edwards probably did
his duty. There is no more cowardly
miscreant than the female who claws
and bites at a bobby with the know-
ledge that since he is a man and she a
woman he can’t handle her as he would
a man. As the policeman, under the
circumstances, can’t effectively help
himself, the law, when it gets a chance,
should be very emphatic indeed in
helping him.
Commonwealth Governor-
General Hopetoun has got a facer from
Judge Holroyd (Vic.), in the case of
Frederic Gerhard, alleged to be a
Swiss insolvent, who was detained in gaol under a
warrant signed by Panton, P. M., acting on the
authority of the G.-G. The Judge held that the
Vic. State Governor should have moved in the
matter, not the Gov.-Gen., and ordered the ac-
cused’s discharge.
The rumor goes around persistently in
Queensland that the Boodle Government will
dissolve Parliament this month, and go to the
country with a rush, in the hope of getting there
before the Labor party is ready. There are con-
stituencies where the Labor candidate is still to be
selected, and there are other difficulties to be
patched up. Meanwhile the Boodle party is
always ready. Its programme is simple. The
same old fossil stands again and promises every-
thing, and if anybody threatens to split the vote
he can, possibly, be persuaded to stand down by
making him a J.P. or his son a policeman, or by
some other means.
After years of bitter complaint about the
scarcity of trucks on the Victorian railways the
public begins to suspect that slipshod manage-
ment has most to do with the trouble. When a
truckful of produce is delivered the consignee is
required to take delivery within 24 hours, or else
pay demurrage. But it appears that the de-
murrage is never collected (one firm’s unpaid bill
ran to £1769 in seven months) unless the consignee
is very poor and uninfluential; so rolling stock
that is badly wanted elsewhere stands round full
of wheat or wool for a week or so till the consignee
feels inclined. In fact, he saves storage charges
by storing his goods in the Government’s trucks.
The crowd with the shorn upper-lip and
the moral mat of hair under its chin intends mak-
ing a great effort to ensure that the Federal
divorce law will amount to a practical repeal of
the divorce statutes now existing in N.S.W. and
Victoria, and a return to the old theory that those
whom the preacher has joined for a reasonable
cash consideration no man must put asunder.
Queensland, Westralia, S.A., and the small island
where the jam comes from all adhere pretty
closely to the old order of things. In ’9B—the
last year covered by Coghlan’s figures—N.S.W.
had 247 divorces; Victoria, 87; the other four
CQmmonwealth States, 21 among them. The
A “ BULLETIN ” PRESENT TO THE DEVIL—Xmas, 1901.
monkey-shave brigade gathers very strongly, and i
has a fair possibility of success.
Sydney Board of Health, reviewing the
Parliamentary Committee report on the Coast-.
Hospital food supply scandal, “repudiates all
responsibility,” and endeavors to throw the blame-
on the medical authorities at the hospital. In
view of evidence that the Board of Health used to.
consistently'neglect the frequent complaints of
the medical superintendent, simply on the ground:
that they were frequent, this repudiation is rather
a solemn sort of joke. A Parliamentary com-
mittee of an inquiring turn of mind would get.
some valuable evidence if it were to start to con-
sider this Board and all its works, regarding
recent epidemics, food adulteration and other
matters.
Premier Seddon’s assurances that there is
no foolish sentiment re freedom of speech about
him, and that if the remarks of some of the-
English Liberal leaders had been made in Maori-
land the speakers would probably have been im-
prisoned, compare rather curiously with his bitter
hoMvls in the days just before the war about the
alleged sinfulness of the Boers in not permitting -
“freedom of speech.” By his own accounts, if
Oom Seddon, now that the mental dry rot of the -
tuft-hunter lias eaten him up, possessed the power
Oom Paul did, lie would be much the narrower-
minded tyrant of the two. Oom Paul allowed
freedom of speech to an extent that Oom Dick
says he wouldn’t do. The true Jingo is solid on
two points—that Britons shall never be denied the-
blessed privilege of freedom of speech, and that
anybody who is found speaking freely except on
the Jingo side should be in gaol.
More cheerful intelligence from Sydney
Telegraph
There is another reason for believing that the Federal
revenue will be maintained notwithstanding the reduc-
tion in the duties. It is a well-known fact that, within
due limits, low duties mean high revenue. Take, for in-
stance, the duties on woollens, which have been reduced *
from 20 to 15 per cent.' The Geelong- manufacturers com-
plain that the effect of the reduction will be to swamp the •
market with imported goods. If that is so, the revenue
must gain more from a 15 than from a 20 per cent. duty.
TheEoreign-trade paperis as full of valuable morals •
as a porcupine is of quills. (1) It says that the
proposed Federal tariff is an excessive burden on
the people ; (2) that it raises far more revenue than
is required ; (3) that the reduced tariff which the
Telegraph demands will raise more revenue, and
take more money from the people and therefore
aggravate alleged evils 1 and 2 ; (4) that it will do-
this by increasing imi orts and therefore reducing
local production and local employment. How
sharper than a serpent’s tooth it is to have a friend
that doesn’t know enough to come in out of the-
wet.


A Question
Answered.
If the Pianola ena-
bles those who
have absolutely no
musical knowledge
to play the piano,
of what interest is
it to those who are
able to play ?
This is often asked, and when asked in our showrooms, generally results in the
purchase of a Pianola ; but more often the question finds expression only in
thought, and offers no opportunity for an answer.
PADEREWSKI HAS A PIANOLA in his home.
ROSENTHAL HAS ONE.
SAUER HAS ONE.
and only recently has ordered two more for friends in Germany, who are themselves
eminent musical critics. This certainly disposes of the question, although it fails to
give the reason. The reason is equally clear.
The Pianola increases the
Pianola being placed in position to play Upright Piano.
repertory of even these musi-
cians from twenty-five to fifty
compositions which they can
play in concert form, to prac-
tically everything they may
desire to play. It increases
the repertory of every skilled
musician, and gives a reper-
tory to the novice.
The Pianola does not mar
the piano, as it may be moved
up to or away from the key-
board at will.
The Pianola does not mar
the playing, as artistic taste
receives full opportunity for
expression to w hich the player
can give his undivided atten-
tion.
The Pianola offers relaxa-
tion from the technical and
enjoyment of the musical.
It is true, since the player
controls the expression, the great musician obtains a more artistic result from the
Pianola than the novice, because he is more critical, but in this very point lies the
secret of the Pianola’s fascination.
The player, whoever he may be, gives his own. individuality to his rendition.
This causes the musical taste to develop, and it is not long before the veriest novice
finds his own playing preferable to many of the pianistic efforts in the average concert.
Expression-marks appear on the music as it unrolls, for the guidance of those who
may be unfamiliar with the selection.
In this article there has been little attempt to explain how the Pianola is manipu-
lated, the principal object being to show the desirability of the Pianola for every one
who owns a piano, whether he be skilled in its use or not.
We shall be pleased to mail a complete description of the instrument upon request,
although we urge all who have the opportunity to hear the Pianola for themselves.
Can & be bought by instalments if desired. Send for Catalogue C.
HENRY M. BIRGE & CO
Sole Agents for Australasia.
The Pianola is sold at no other
Address in Sydney.
323 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY,
Kidney and [iver Complaint
AND
Weakness of the {ladder
CURED BY
VITADATIO
499 Bourke-street, Surry Hills,
Sydney, Sept. 9, 1899.
Mr. PALMER.—
Dear Sir,— Four years ago I was very bad ; in fact, I
had to walk on crutches. The doctor told me I was
suffering from Kidney and Liver Complaint, and Weak,
ness in the mouth of the Bladder He gave me some,
medicine, but it did not do me any good. I saw in the
paper about a Mrs. Stranger having been cured by VITA-
DATIO, and I decided to try it. I took four small bottles
and one large one ; the result was that in six weeks I was
perfectly cured, and have thrown away my crutches.
After I commenced taking VITADATIO I gained one
stone in weight in six weeks. From that time to this I
have never taken a dose of medicine, and I am perfectly
cured of the old complaint. When I took your medicine
four years ago I was residing in Macquari e-street, Hobart.
I give this testimonial of my own free will, and you are at
liberty to publish it if you so desire.—Yours faithfully,
V. R. HURBURGH.
Witness : D. B. Thomas, 387 George-street.
For further particulars,
s. A. PALATER,
18J: Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write lor Testimonials
gr
Rider Agents wanted
throughout Australia,
one in eacii town to ride and
exhibit 1902 Model Cycle.
Finest Grades, £2 5s to £4
10s, carriage paid.
’OO & ’Ol Models £1 5s to £2 10s.
Great Factory Clearing Sale at
HALF FACTORY COST.
Every Machine fully guaranteed
We have a wonderfully liberal
proposition for good Rider Agents.
'Write at once for our bargain
'list and Special Offer using
2*4d stamp or id postcard.
f ADDRESS DEPT. 152-C
Mead Cycle Co., Chicago, U.S.A.
AUSTRALIAN .
The First
Australian Stamp.
STftMPS
Highest Cash Prices Paid
to any amount for
Oid 0/ Rare Stamps,
UaoU or Unused.
m
For Sal?—The Largest Stock of STAMPS, ALBUMS, etc.,
in the Southern hemisphere.
BMYTH & NIGOLLE, H Hunter-st., Sydney.
The N.S.W. Fresh Food and Ice Co., Ltd., has
issued a very pretty booklet giving illustrations and
interesting facts about their business. The company
delivers some 24,000 quartz of milk daily. So if you only
mix it with whisky you can take a long, steady drink at
it, and then have plenty for your friends.*
Capillarine ! If you drop some of it on the
floor overnight, the floor will be covered with hair in the
morning, and you’ll want a lawn-mower to cut it off. We
knew a man who made a door-mat on his floor through
dropping Capillarine on it regularly. Of course the above
are exaggerations, but, seriously speaking, Craig and
Aitken, of 680 George-street, Sydney, have thousands of
testimonials from men who could never grow a moustache
until they used Capillarine. See Craig and Aitken s advt.
on page 27.*
An Australian cohentingenter to London
Morning Leader
I think that we lost more officers from our own rifles
in some cases than from the rifles of the enemy. A good
many, I feel sure, were shot “accidentally on purpose”
by men behind them. In fact, I have heard a number of
soldiers, when under the influence of drink, boasting that
they had committed deeds of this sort, and I think some
of them spoke the truth.
Government Notices.
Department of Taxation, Custom House,
Sydney, 20th December, 1901.
Land and Income Tax Assessment Act of 1895.
'\rOTICE is hereby given, under section 30 of the above
•I* Ant, that Returns of Income received during the
year 1901 for the purposes of the assessment of Income
Tax for the year 1902 are required to be furnished to the
Commissioners of Taxation, at their office, on or before
the eighth day of February, 1902, and all persons who
are in receipt of income, and all persons liable under the
provisions of the Act in any representative capacity to
furnish returns for the purposes aforesaid, are hereby in-
formed that the prescribed Forms of Returns are now
available, and may be obtained (except those for
Companies) on application at any Post 0(/ice, Police Office,
Custom House, Railway Station, and the Office of any
Clerk of Petty Sessions in New South Wales, Stamp
Duties Office, Phillip-street, Sydney, or at the Taxation
Office, Custom House Sydney.
Forms for Companies can be obtained at the Stamp
Duties Office, Phillip-street, Sydney, or at the Taxation
Office, Custom House, Sydney.
All persons carrying on any business, trade, or
profession on their own account are required to furnish
Income Returns irrespective of the amount of their
income ; but no return of Income is required from any
person in receipt of salary or wages only if the gross
annual amount of such salary or wages does not exceed
£2OO.
All emplovers of labor, whether they themselves are
liable to make Income Tax Returns or not, are required
to furnish to the Commissioners of Taxation the name,
occupation, and address of all employees whose salaries
or wages for the vear 1901 aggregated £l6O and .upwards.
Public attention is called to the fact that a penalty
not exceeding Twenty Pounds is imposed on any
person neglecting to furnish the Return required of
him within the time above mentioned, and that persons
failing to furnish such Return are not relieved from
liability to the penalty by reason only that they may not
have received.a notice, to furnish the Return, or that the
prescribed Form may not have been delivered to them.
The attention of owners of taxable lands subject to
mortgage \s invited to the necessity for furnishing the
requisite particulars, in order that they may derive the
benefit of the deduction to which they are entitled in
respect of the interest on the mortgage of their lands,
including improvements thereon. Without these
particulars the Commissioners will be unable to make
the statutory deduction from the tax on the unimproved
values.
Forms of the prescribed Return may be obtained on
application at any of the abovementioned offices, and
should be furnished on or before the eighth day of
February, 1902, before mentioned.
Li S. SPILLER, 'j
R. N. JOHNSON, V
C. J. SAUNDERS
Commissioners
of
Taxation.
N.B.—Particular attention is called to the observations
and directions with the Forms of Return. 2c 10
tv
Those I
suffering I
from weak I
and sore eyes,
and blight, should
SINGLETON’S OINTMENT
Never Fails. Restores Eyelashes.
ALL CHEMISTS.
Missing Friends.
lIVING or DEAD ! The mother of Ernest
■k Layzell would thank any person able to
give her news of her son, last heard of at Oak-
hurst Station, February, 1895.
Address —Mrs. LAYZELL,
c/o Bulletin Office,
214 George-street, Sydney.
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
CORSETS.
THE LATEST LnTOVELTIT.
THOMSON’S
TRADE'
1 MARX.
‘Gradosa’
PATENTED. REGISTERED.
The most Comfortable and Durable of Corsets* _____
Cannot Break at the Waist Line!
WHAT THE WEARERS SAY OF THEM—
Lady W. writes The ‘ GRACIOSA \ Corset is simply perfect in shape,
adapting itself to the body in any position.”
Lady S. writes ‘‘l find your ‘GRACIOSA ’ Corset the most comfortable I have
ever worn, and a periect fit.”
Lady M writes “Your • GRACIOSA ’ Corset is the very perfection of fit, the
very thing I have been wishing for, as there is perfect freedom of movement
of the body. lam quite delighted with it.”
Lady B. writes “ Your ‘ GRACIOSA ’ Corset is a splendid fit, and the most
comfortable corset I have ever worn.”
P.R. writes: —“ Our assistant likes the ‘GRACIOSA’ Corset very much, and
thinks they will be a great success, and have a large sale.. We shall be very
pleased to give an order as soon as they are ready for delivery.”
W. T. writes “ Your ‘ GRACIOSA ’ Corset gives great satisfaction.”
SOLD BY ALL FIRST CLASS DRAPERS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
W. $. THOMSON & CO., Ltd., London, Manufacturers ,
Makers of t e World-Renowned ‘‘Glove-Fitting” Corsets.
G. F. Griffiths, Sole Agent for Australasia, Watsons Chambers, Melbourne.
12 PRIZE MEDALS.
CALLAGHAN
Us*
X
I?
BOOT
HAVE
YOU
ORDERED
A
PAIR
YET
CALLAGHAN BOOTS can BE EXCHANGED
if not correct, as we wish DISTANT customers
to be as pleased as those in town.
m’ Your money RETURNED If you are not satisfied with the Boots.
Men’s Finest French Calf LACE, medium wide welts, bespoke appearance, 22/6; post
paid, 23/6.
Tan Willow LACE, full goloshed, fast color eyelets, 23/6 ; post paid, 24/6i
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 George St., Sydney


WOOL. PRODUCE. GRAIN.
The New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Coy., Ltd., SYDNEY,
ACT -A.S SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
Consignors are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of this Company.
WOOL
COMMISSION FOR SELLING THREE-QUARTERS (f) PER CENT.
WAREHOUSING
"(Including Receiving into Store, Fire Insurance,
Weighing, Lotting, Repacking, Sample Bales,
Advertising, Cataloguing, etc.) on Wool real-
ising over SIXPENCE per lb. the charges
• will be
On Wools realising SIXPENCE and over Four-
pence per lb :
On Wools realising FOURPENCE per ib. and
„ under ...• •
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. 6d. per Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
Perfect System of Weighing.
Way Bills sent on Application.
SALES of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, etc., HELD WEEKLY.
WHEAT.
Every inducement is offered growers to consign their grain for realisation by the
Ample accommodation is provided. Three months free storage is allowed. Circulars are
desired giving cost of railage and full particulars as to Charges, Advances, etc.., etc.
Sole Agents in New South Wales for
Walter A. Wood Reapers and Binders, Mowers, Rakes, etc.
Mitchell’s Harvesters, Strippers, Winnowers, Ploughs, etc.
Alston’s Windmills, Buncle and Sons’ ChafFcutters.
Donald’s Patent Woolpress.
AGENTS FOR McDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP.
Company,
sent when
[Wc&ive away an ExlrafairofTrousers to cvcryFi^h&sgro^^jr
yt
rey
*
a
fh
In “Blue and Coloured Serges.
The splendid value of these Suits has
made us famous. “Justly Famous!”
you will say when you try one.
THE
F.S.Meyers, Manager.
>ite Post Office. Bourkc St. Pfelb.
Evil Effects of
Some Soaps on
the Complexion.
PREMIER VINOLIA SOAP is not colored with
poisons, rendered transparent with Chemi-
cals, or semi-transparent with resin and
sugar, nor does it turn yellow in spots,
revealing putrid fats. It is not charged
with powerful penetrating perfumes that
gratify the sense of smell to the detriment
and injury of the skin. VINOLIA is purest,
safest and best. Laundry soaps should
never be used on the skin.
n Five Kinds : Sold Everywhere.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL *900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
■X'O DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES Tktoah SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
Catalogue
Free . . .
PLAYS
French’s Acting Edition,
fdh
Rare Books
French Novels
Books the Married
Extra Special Catalogue of
liooles Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
ELECTRICAL
and
MINING ENGINEERS,
NOTE NEW ADDRESS!
Yaralla Chambers,
109 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE Office: 15 &17 Queen Street.
A Policy for the Commonwealth.
PRICE, 6d.; Posted, Bd.
DA.PTO (I.a,ke
(LIMIT HD).
Illawarra),
»©ar SYDKTEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
OF
FiNE SILVER.
fd
h
MAKERS OF
“ S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
“ ILLAWARRA”
.. BRAND OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
chasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SW EEP REFINERS of SILVER
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS. LEAD BULLION
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to P. S. Mouse, Manager, Tn Smelting Company of Australia, {Ltd., DAPTO, NSW


THE
‘PLUM’
ĥfd
THE
‘ PLUM’
(7JENTLEMEN. —This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. 6d.
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Price
/Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 213.
/Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the World.
IfW Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
CHARLES READ & CO.,
3 Doors from
Strand Arcade.
Camden Buildings, 420 George St., Sydney
Write for 80-page Illustrated Catalogue—Post Free.
A
SAVING
OF
2 5
PER
CENT,
Charles Read & Co.
Diamond Marquise King.
If you want a.
Good, well-made
Ring, set with
Choice Gems,
we can -fit you
up from our
Stock, or make
any Design you
like.
Charles Read & Co.
5-Stone Half-Hoop Diamond
Ring, from £5 to £4O.
A
SAVING
OF
25
PER
CENT.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL, you enjoy your lunch
George and Market Sts.,
SYDNEY.
APARTMENTS:
BEDROOM (single), 3s. per DAY.
BEDROOM (double), 6s. per DAY.
Single Room, with Full Board, Bs. per
day, or £2 2s. per week.
TERMS. —The convenient
system of paying 1 for the
room on arrival and
meals as they are had.
When you come to Roberts’ Hotel
Dining Rooms ; and you not only
enjoy it, but it does you good as
well. There is always a large and
tempting variety of excellent food on
our menu, and on Fridays there is a
special fish luncheon for those who
want it in addition to the ordinary.
The luncheon is ready at twelve
o’clock sharp—from Is.—and there
is first-class attendance. Dinner and
tea from 5.30 to 7.30 —from Is.
upwards. Silver grill at work.
ORIGINAL WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE.
SAUG
saug
SAU
4//~y^7iAs
AGENTS
VIRGOE, SON & CHAPMAN,
& D. COHEN & CO., SYDNEY.
HEALTH, STRENGTH, HAPPIHESS
HEALTH
Few recognise the BLISS of being
HEALTH, until SUDDENLY certain
noticed, slight at first, but gradually
causing annoyance and SUFFERING
in PERFECT
symptoms are
RECURRING,
, the individual
being forced to admit he is unwell, and finally compelled to acknowledge that PERFECT
HEALTH is a PRECIOUS BOON.
STRENGTH
What a blow to a man who discovers he is LOSING
his STRENGTH and VIGOR, and THAT perhaps at
a period when he most NEEDS ALL his physical
and mental capabilities to battle through life. They
are PRICELESS to him. He must by every means endeavor to REGAIN THEM.
HAPPINESS
Does happiness consist in Wealth? No. Who can
be happy without HEALTH and STRENGTH?
Wealth materially assists the endurance of suffering,
but PERFECT HEALTH, STRENGTH and VIGOR
should be the natural inheritance of EACH individual, and are invaluable gifts, tending to :
happy existence and long life. THE HEALTHY, STRONG MAN CAN contend, and SUCCESS
FULLY, with the billows of life. BUT HOW CAN THE WEAKLY AND SICKLY?
Health, Strength and Happiness
can be ALL REGAINED.
If constant study, combined
with intelligence and a
thorough practical knowledge of the many ailments to which the human subject is a victim, THEN I SHOULD
be able to achieve that result AFTER THIRTY YEARS’ PRACTICE, enabling me to bring to bear unlimited
and VARIED EXPERIENCE in all ACUTE and CHRONIC CASES of NERVOUS EXHAUSTION, CHEST,
SKIN and SPECIAL DISEASES OF MEN AND WOMEN. PERFECT SYSTEM OF ACCURATE DIAGNOSIS
AND TREATMENT BY MAIL FOR COUNTRY PATIENTS A SPECIAL FEATURE.
Dr. WATSON’S Fee is Strictly Moderate. He recognises the fact that the Public is
prepared to pay a Reasonable Fee for Assured Skill in the treatment of Complaints of
whatever character.
Consultations From 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. Daily. ABSOLUTELY FREE.
A “ GUIDE TO DIAGNOSIS X,” Posted Free, 1/-
■ ■■■ ' ■
DR. H. S. WATSON,
(Please Mention
This Paper.)
137 ELIZABETH ST., HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
cc
ON OUR SLECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 6s. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
The VOLCANIC
/ERATING
MACHINE
a
w
JlllilllllMl'limllllHi'PllltliU/i.MMiiHUlirlh
A GREAT SAVING
. . TO
Hotelkeepers, Cafe Proprietors, eto.
JErated Waters of the highest quality
produced with the utmost rapidity
WITHOUT SKILLED LABOR,.
US' Absolutely the best and simplest
Machine in the market.
• PRICES GREATLY REDUCED •
Write for descriptive Pamphlets with testimonials
from people who have used the Machine for years.
W. JAMES, Proprietor
rOffice : 101 QUEEN ST., MELBOURE.
I Depfit : 130 CECIL ST., SOUTH MELBOURNE.
ROSES
Effective Cure
BlichtlmfiamedEyes&Lids
Weak Erts Dimness ET?
. 551 GEORGE ST .
S^SYDNEY^
WfeAFSTABLISMEP laSSftjW
Tiie Greatest Discovery of Modern Times
. . FOR . .
ALL EYE COMPLATNTS
a - ici "r r from any cause whatever.
ASK FOR
ROSE’S
Celebrated Eye Lotion
r waw mi "
A CERTAIN CERE for Sandy Blight, Granulations, Bunged Eyes,
Dimness of Sight, Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids, Weak Eyes caused by
Dust, Sun Glare, Overwork, &c., Swelling Blight resulting from stings
of flies and insects.
Used i"ith equal suceess on the Eyes of Cattle, Sheep, Poultry, See.
Largely used by Rifle-Shooters and Literary Men.
Testimonials from leading Commercial and Professional Men throughout Australia.
Sole Proprietor . . .
EGD. LABEL.
H. A, ROSE
Dispensing-
Chemist,
531 George St., Sydney
Sold. by all Chemists and Storekeepers. llS’Beware of Imitations.
S. FREEMAN # SONS Ll*!™
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
srEoiAi.Tircs:
BATHO’S
FREEMAN’S
BAKING
PRIZE
POWDER.
PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WTNTARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
THE WORLD’S GRANDEST . .
CIGARETTE
<W£
(VIRGINIA GRADE)
No. 555
Absolutely Unique in Quality.
A Revelation to all Cigarette Smokers.
No. 999
Tn the event of your being unable to purchase State Express Cigarettes from local Tobacconists,
. . . write to . . .
M.' RUTTY & Co., 68 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Manufacturers: ARDATH TO3ACCO CO., 41 Worship Street, Lcncicn, England.
Zhe jVfosi Refreshing 2)rink in JTustralia.
Lime-Fruit Juice
ai)6 Cordials . . .
(TRADE MAR )
The DANCET says:-j‘ e
counsel the public to drink
Ein e fruit Juice whenever and
wherever trey list, tis alar
more wholesome drink than
any form of Alcohol.”
M.ntserrat” Lime-Fruit Juice, either wi h water or seated water, is a
del ghtful thirst quencher.
Sole Consignees—EVANS, L SCHER & WEBB, LONDON.
EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
Agents Elliott Bros., L'td., J. Connell & Co., Svdnfy; D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.
A
HOTELKEEPERS!
MAKE YOUR OWN
VERATEDWATERS.
rpHE “ AUSTRAL” AERATED WATER MACHINE occu-
"*■ pies only Four Feet Square, will produce 150 Dozen per day ol
Finest Waters (LEMONADE, GINGER ALE, SODAWATER, &c.)
at a Cost below Fourpence per Dozen. This machine
supersedes all others for SIMPLICITY and USEFULNESS, as it
requires no skilled labor to work it.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
ECKERSLEY & SONS,
214-216 Queen-st., MELBOURNE.


Deink
Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER ....
o'*%\o*
c°
REUTER’S
LITTLE
RILLS
FOR THE LIVER.
«</
%
Why Women Fade.
How is it that women do not carry their years
as well as men? For a few years she blooms
like’ the most beautiful flowers, shedding a
radiance of light wherever she goes; the eye is
freshened by the sight of her. and everything
about her is touched by bewitching grace. But
her reign is as short as the flowers, and she is
soon left a care-worn, shambling wreck,. her
form bowed, her steps dragging, and her face
wrinkled. Complaining of the unhappy existence
and envying the man his vigor, she goes down
to an early grave, believing that her trials are a
heritage from Mother Eve. One woman’s
experience may prove a thousand women’s
salvation. “About six weeks ago I first used
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. I must say I
found them a most superior medicine,” writes
Mrs. Harrison, Eitzroy, Vic. “My complaint
was peculiar to women—languor, debility and
bilious attacks, which made my days perfectly
wretched. Indeed, there were spells when I
used to wonder in the morning how I could set
about my household duties, but they had to be
done, and I would struggle through the day
when I should have been in bed You can
imagine by all this how very agreeably sur-
prised I was to get such a very valuable
medicine, especially after the failure of many
others.” Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
are a perfect blood purifier and a positive
cure for biliousness, indigestion, constipation,
headaches, sallow complexion, liver and kidney
troubles, piles, pimples, boils, blotches, and
female ailments. Sold by chemists and store-
keepers, Is per bottle, or six bottles
6s. Gd. Sole proprietors, The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd. (Australasian Depot), 58 Pitt-street,
Sydney. Packed in amber bottles, and the full
name blown thereon.*
Wood, The Optician, of George-st. (opposite
Hunter-st.), Sydney, has a special line—“ The New Mili-
tary Field-Glasses ” — which every contingenter will need
in Africa.*
The Bulletin has received from the Modern
Art Jewellery Co., 187 Pitt-street, Sydney, a specimen
each of its ladies’ and gentlemen’s 1902-Calendar-Card-
Cases. The articles, which are intended for presentation
to the co’s customers, are plain, tasteful, convenient, and
compact.*
A copy of “A Policy for the Common-
wealth,” The Bulletin’s particularly suc-
cessful pamphlet, will be posted from this office to
any Australian address on receipt of Bd. in stamps
of any State).
“ SHARPSHOOTING
For Sport and War”
h
By W. W. GREENER.
Hits the Mark!
1/- NETT.
If you wish to know how to guard the
Empire—if you are one of those who will
rally round ‘■.he old flag—read this book.
It teaches all about Rifles and Rifle
Shooting, how to aim and make allowance,
&c., and it contains chapters on Ranges
and Rifle Clubs, with a history of the part
played by the Armed Civilian in the past.
The Best Shilling's Worth ever Published I
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations for 1/- nett.
Of all Booksellers, or C. W. Buckland, Agent
for W. W. Greener, 317 Collins St., MELB.
By Special
Appointment.
G. H. SMITH and SON,
TROPICAL HELMET
with special air-space,
in while drill, dkc. and
in all colors in felt.
10/6 and 12/6
Eat and Cap Manufacturers
and Importers,
302 Ceorge-st. Sydney
Sombrero Soft Felt Hats,
All Shades and Sizes.
Soft Felt Hombergs.
In all Sizes and Colors.
Straw Hats. Stetson Hats.
Polo Caps, Military and Naval
Caps, Livery Hats, Clerical Silk
Hats, Etc., Made to Order
JOHN JAMESON
“THREE-STAR” WHISKEY.
Agents ; J. BARRE JOHNSTON & CO., Loftus Street, Sydney.
Price Right
Wheel Right
Guarantee Right
RED BIRD BICYCLES
Have been used successfully in crossing Australia,
machine has scored such a number of victories.
WE CAN GIVE YOU EASY TERMS.
Lonjr distance touring, and on the racing track.
" • MARTIN on his RED BIRD won the last
WHY NOT BUY A RED BIRD ?
no other
Austral.
Branches everywhere.
Goold Bicycle Co., 64- King Street, Sydney.
Hardy’s
Tintara Wines
Absolutaly Pure;
Adelaide:
CURRIE STREET
A
Fully Matured;
Melbourne:
COLLINS STREET
700 Medals, etc.
Sydney :
grosvenor street
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Conditions in second test match favored neither
side. Australians opened and Britishers finished on
sodden wickets. Each side lost 15 bats during % time
which bowlers revelled in. The Australians hit up 160,
while the English only notched 89. Former’s other five
wickets brought 305 ; latter’s, 147. This test produced
two records. Noble’s 7 for 17 has never been equalled in
like matches ; Turner’s 6 for 15 was the previous best
and had been so for years. Again, Noble’s 13
for 7/ wiped out Bates’s 13 for 102, also achieved
on the M. 0.0. ground nine years ago. At Kenning-
ton Oval, ten years back, Spotforth bagged 14 for 92.
Trumble’s “ hat trick ” in last match was the second in a
similar battle credited to an Australian. Spofforth did it
first in ’79 against Lord Harris’s lot.
* * * •
Relative superiority of Australian bowling un-
doubtedly brought about the undoing of the Englishmen.
Twas thought by some that omitting Laver and M'Leod,
for the purpose of strengthening the batting, would
result in disaster ; but Noble's top-rung form more than
balanced things. What the Englishmen thought .of it
may be gathered from Skipper Maelaren’s remarking after
being bowled for one: “A man cannot be expected to
Play jugglery.” The delivery that bamboozled Quaife
went to the leg first, then curled on to the wicket and
yorked the stonewaller. Happenings in this match
should, however, have little influence when the next team
is chosen ; there’s need for a slow bowler, and Gitfen,
Llarke or the left-hander, Saunders, might fill the bill.
The apparently delibeiate ignoring of the Wheat State
crack is arousing the curiositv of cricket-followers gener-
ally. Giffen did surprisingly well against the visitors in
their only match (so far) at Adelaide. What’s the matter,
anyhow ?
* * * •
An awful question arises from the bowling
averages in the two test matches. What is going to
happen to Maclaren and Co. if Barnes meets with an
accident, or loses his form.
The difference between the bad-wicket batting
of the second test match teams was very marked. The
Australians, one and all, seemed to lose their wickets
because they were bound to play a fast, risky game,
whereas the Englishmen, with the exceptions of Jessop,
.Maclaren, and Lilley (the latter made six runs in three
reckless lives), seemed incapable of an effort to get hold
o • the ball when Noble handled it. Noble took seven
wickets for nine runs after eight had heen scored off him
by Mac and Jessop. Moreover, he did it in a style that
made the English bowling look simple by comparison.
Two remarkable catches were credited to the
Englanders on the first day of the Melbourne test. In
the Australians’ first innings, Braund, in the slips, dis-
posed of Duff with marvellous agility. He threw himself
at tpe ball and took it left hand as a cat grabs a mouse,
fn the second innings Tyldesle.v must have run nearly 30
yards to take a skier from Darling on the bias. "The
£ a .ij ,' n T a ? btever. The speed and j'udgment
■ Idesley showed in getting to the right spot were
exceptional even in the best of cricket society.
As for the second innings of the Englishmen—
the innings in which they were called upon to j'ustify
their reputation as “a great run-getting
team --it was ruined at the outset by the nervous, care-
ful batting of Maclaren, Hayward, Quaife, and Lilley, who
made the howling more dangerous than, perhaps, it
really was by their policy of playing to stop in. On New
Years Day, when the Australians in their second innings
were playing for time, and the pitch was onlv beginning
to get hard, they lost five wickets for 48. On the Friday
the Englishmen started their trouble after luncheon, by
playing for Saturday’s gate, with the hope, of course, of
being able to win the game in due course. They calcu-
lated on making a fair score for the loss of not more than
two wickets, which would have left the issue sufficiently
doubtful to ensure a big attendance for a fine Saturday.
Major \\ ardill told his friends to expect two wickets
down for something like 200 runs. The board at the end
of the day showed five wickets down for 147, the result of
feeble cautiousness, tempered by an infusion of Jessop.
Six wickets were taken on the Friday for the
paltry total of 200, including Jessop’s quick and lively 32.
It was the dullest batting ever seen in any test match at
Melbourne, and it left an impression that Duff and
Armstrong in the first place, and five out of six English-
men in the next place, were endeavoring to make the
g^ e l ast as \ on £ as possible. But thunderstorms came,
with the result that the tail of Maclaren’s team went down
in the dirt, leaving Australia victorious by 229 runs.
Maclaren, as things happened, probably lost
the second test by choosing to give the Australians first
mnings on a wicket which was not at its worst when play
started, and which might have greased the ball sufficiently
to lessen Noble s effectiveness. But, anyway, the visitors,
were beaten on their merits, for although Darling’s policy
of keeping back his crack batsmen for the second day
w a ® a complete success, it needed the final stand
of Duff and Armstrong to do the trick. Had either
of these debutants failed, the Englishman would have
’® et l k to get (say) 300 runs, with more than a
whole day of dry wicket to do it in. But, presuming that
Maclaren had taken first innings, and been required to
start a second innings on New Year’s Day, like the Aus-
tralians, he would probably have followed the conserva-
Dve rule of sending his men to bat in the usual order, in
which case the “ best” wickets would have fallen before
6 o clock, and the Australians must have won.
Two illustrations of tbe hopelessness of poking
a £ ,^ le * n a second-thoughts way were given in the
Melbourne match. Clem Hill struck hastily at a no-ball
from Barnes on the off chance of scoring from it, and put
it into a fieldsman’s hands. Little Quaife, on the English
side, varied the monotony of his stonewall tactics with a
reckless little leg smite at a no-ball from Trumble. and
gave an easy catch to Darling.
♦ * * *
Occasional Visitor”:—“The more I see of
expert batting on a hard wicket the more I pity those
onlookers who sit .out a whole day’s play and call it
the only true cricket.’ Patient enthusiasts exch t
congratulations on the second day of the test-match* say-
ing Better than yesterday ! ” not because the Australians
were mastering the English bowlers, but because thev
were able to play ‘ the game.’ ‘ The game,’ as played by
first-class artists under perfect conditions, is a deadly dull
entertainment. Thousands of people at the Melbourne
ground last Thursday must have admitted to themselves
that it was much better fun to watch the downfall
of 25 wickets for 221 runs on the first day, than to admire
the careful scoring of 252 runs for a loss of 4 wickets on
the second. Cricket is not such a very fine art that the
public will ever learn to prefer a safe batsman who rarelv
lifts a ball to the dashing bat who skies it often. I wish
that -all matches were limited to two days, and every
wicket carefully soaked overnight.” 1
* * * *
Re Melbourne crowd’s hooting of Noble. The
dropping of M‘Leod and Laver and inclusion of Duff and
Armstrong by the selection commitee (Noble, Trumble,
and was unanimous, so why Noble’should have been
singled out for special attention is unaccountable. Duff’s
manner of getting his runs, and his form in opposition to
the Victorians last and previous seasons, were ample justifi-
cation for choosing him. He also justified his selection by
topping" the scores in each inningrs ; while Armstrong*, the
other new man, carried out his bat for 4 and 45 respectively.
Duff was lucky in getting a chance at all, for had
Foidevin been available the North Sydney crack might
not have gone over to play against the Victorians.
* * * »
Contrary to most others, Darling believes that
there s much variety in the Australian bowling. Jones’s
is quite different from Noble’s in pace. Howell’s has a
peculiar flight and excellent length with an off-break
absolutely his own ; in the latest match Howell came
back very quickly as much as 6in. on a perfect pitch,
irumble keeps the batsmen busy, and Armstrong and
Trumper supply additional change of attack.
* * * *
Darling on_ Duff : “ One of the most promising
bats in Australia. If he goes to England with the 11 he
wdl be very successful, as he watches the hall right on to
the bat; his first innings (32) on the sticky wicket was
equal in merit to his 104 in the second—making allowance
for the much altered conditions.”
• • • .
Duff and Armstrong’s 120 for last wicket in
second test match is a record for the series. Briggs and
Hunter’s 98 in Melbourne, January, ’B5, was the previous
best. Top notch figures for a first-class match are
Nicnolls and Roche’s 230 for Middlesex against Kent at
Lords in June, ’99. Next come Briggs’ and Pilling’s 173
for Lancashire against Surrey at Liverpool in June, ’B5
• • * «
-P er^a P s the success which at-
tended the inclusion of young players in the second test
may have a beneficial effect on the selection committee
when choosing the men for the third test. There are in
the team some old players who stay there on their past
reputation, and not on their present form. Gregory for
instance, should be left out; his batting is Weak—in fact
h ® n °w shows no versatility of stroke at all. Jones
should be left out—his bowling of late having been of the
very second-rate order, and his batting simply shocking.
Trumper, also, should go ; his scores in the tests having
been 0,0, and 16. There are plenty of young players who
have shown respectable form for years, and never had a
good chance, owing to the presence of so many has-beens.
Hack, Saunders, Clarke, Stuckey, M’Beth, Farquhar, and
young Capp of Singleton, have all earned a place in the
test team, and should certainty be given a turn.
* * * •
Of 58 “tests” so far played between England
and Australia, former won 27, and latter 21; others were
drawn. Thirty-four have been contested in Australia,
resulting in 17 wins for Australia ; 15 wins for England,
and two draws. Twenty-four were played in England •
four won by the Australians; 12 by'the Englanders;
eight drawn through the three days’ limit.
* * * *
The Consecrated Press (which, of all papers,
should be able to get reliable tips about the Future)
writing before the second test match: “We will even
venture a little prophecy, and say that in the second test
match Gregory, Noble, and probably Duff will not make
a good performance against the Englishmen,” Now
Noble took nearly all the wickets, and Duff made top
score each time. A little more of such prophecy and
people will begin to doubt the efficacy of consecration.
• • • *
Groulburn was shaken in its crease by the con-
duct of Maclaren’s XI. during the match Goulburn v.
England. Robson was put on to bowl down the Goul-
burn smiters with “grubbers,” which were regarded as
insults. After passing the Goulburn score the English
captain allowed himself to be run out, and the mighty
Jessop never showed up at all. A concert was got up for
the Bulls,” but they did not appear; and Maclaren,
on going away, characterised the wicket and outfield as
the worst he had ever seen. Maclaren should run his
show ” with a little more discretion ; if he could only
sit at the feet of Dan Barry for a season 1
* • * *
Hoop Iron’s win of Tatt’s. Cup on New Year’s
Day was the biggest surprise of a meeting full of them.
Hundreds to four, or even three, might have been had,
but few risked a “ bean ” on this pronounced in-and-outer
who didn’t carry a cent of stable monev. At six furlongs
he galloped to the front, and in the next 220 yards held a
lead of a dozen lengths, and though he tired palpably and
swished his tail ominously down the straight while Blue
and co ' ra P idl y 'viped off the interveningspace the end
of the two miles saw him still in front. Time (3.3.)) equalled
the previous best (Nightingale’s in ’94) for the same race.
Hoop Iron was bred at Tucka Tucka (N.S.W.) by his
present owner (Mr. “ Jack ” Smith), and is by Metal'ffom
Nurse Girl (dam by Soldier), by Gozo from Carmen (dam
of Vocalist), by Goldsbrough from Dolly Varden, by Lord
of Linne (imp.) His first success was Warwick Farm
Handicap Dec. 7. Since then he ran second to Golden
King in A.J.C. Holiday Handicap, and nowhere in
bummer Cup on Boxing Day, though well backed. Hence
the turn-up for Mo. in an event which should have
given him a hard knock.
. * . * * *
Nominations for Doncaster Handicap and
Sydney Cup closed Monday, with a big drop numerically.
i ormer has 97 as against 124 last year, and latter 63 as
against 93. The mile entrants include The Watchdog,
Wakeful, Sequence, Abington, Ferryman, Leapfrog, Man-
o-War, Ibex, Sir Leonard, Caledonia, Dandy, Essington
Kenley, and Ampier; and the two miles La Carabine
Revenue, Horace, Tarquin, Wakeful, Rock Gun, Reviver
Patronage, Pehssier, Australian Colours, Hoop Iron, Blue
Metal, and April Fool.
• * * »
Weights for S.T.C. Challenge Stakes and Anni-
versary Handicap give Newry, Blue Cap, Bother, Kalingo.
Baccarat and Klimbo chances in the short race while
Royal Purple, Lucknow, Hoop Iron, April Fool, Red-
mond, Patronag?, Undaunted and Man o’ War look well
in the longer distance ; but tipping thus far off is a
dangerous occupation.
* * « *
Canterbury Handicap, on Saturday, provided
an exceptionally hot ending. Carbine—Duenna 6-year-
old nag Pehssier, humping 9.5, just pipped Lulwort'h on
the line, with The Kiss, who once in the straight looked a
moral, a nose behind, third. Pelissier’s was a great
teat ; 6 furlongs from home he was absolutely last behind
seven others, but thence onward he worked' to the front
and got home in a determined and exciting finish.’
Pehssier is a brother to Amberite.
* * * •
Commenting on winner Pelissier’s running at,
Canterbury Park (Sydney), on Saturday, S.M. Herald
applauded jockey Barden, while Daily Telegirapli de-
clared he displayed but little judgment. Barden has
proved lie understands the nag best, and what would
have been bad judgment in some cases proved absolutely
the right thing in this instance.
* • , * *
Aged ex-galloway Fitzroy, by Russley (imp.)—
Little Mona, sprung a surprise on all, bar immediate
stable connections (who’d carefully taken many odds) bv
snapping Canterbury Park Stewards’ Mile (Saturday) by
a head. Though a front-ranker for long, Fitzrov’s last
previous success was in Heron Handicap (I 960) at Mari-
byrnong. Valenfco, by Haut Brion (imp.)—Lady Helena,
annexed the Park Stakes, but, though starting at sixes,
only carried a sov. of his owner’s money. Sunrise—
Recluse mare Rejoice’s win of Shorts Handicap same day
didn’t bring over-much joy to trainer Jimmy Monaghan
(who provides the oats), as he, too, had only invested £l,
and, ’tis said, he only succeeded in getting a rider at the
last moment. Rejoice just came back from a spell of
over 12 months, incurred through suspicious running on
the same track ; her then owner and jock (Want) were
also “ sent up ” at the same time. Winner (VVyena) of
Three-.vear-old Handicap looks well, and should turn out
more than useful ; she is by Qozo (and shows it) out of
Maori Queen, and, consequently, full sister to The Chief
and the anxiously-waited-for Horace. Rugosa went out
at 2 to 1, but cut a very sorry figure, which wasn’t her
form by long chalks.
* * * *
“ Bob R.” : Talk of Chinaman’s luck, it isn’t in
the same street with a racecourse woman’s. Writer was
last Saturday on the stand at Canterbury. Just prior to
the Steward’s Mile.a plover flew past, and a woman be-
hind me exclaimed : “ That’s the office all right—French
grey and black” (a plover’s markings), “ that’s Fitzro.v’s
colors and I’m going to have a bit on.” She had a bit
on, and I itzroy got home. Before the last race the plover
flew by the stand again gaily chortling. “That’s Re-
joice,” she said, “ and I’m going to have a bit on.” She
had a bit on, and rejoiced accordingly. This is a true
• * • *
®;A. owners, being nearly unanimous,
wrecked the S.A.J.C. New Year’s Meeting* by scratching
the horses entered for it almost in a body. The “ fields ”
would have run from one to four starters, and the Club
postponed the whole meeting for 10 davs. It is said that
those owners who stood by the Club object to the post-
ponement, and will claim the various stakes. The others
had for grievance the non-granting by the S.A JC.
(which controls racing in the State) of three more davs in
the year, to be divided among the principal suburban
clubs. R. C. Baker, President of the Federal Senate, is
president of the committee, and would make no promise
whatever, so Dixon, State M.P., chairman of the dissen-
tients, put in all the scratching-papers entrusted to him
the day before the meeting.
* * * *
Sporting trifles. Sydney Tatt.’s meeting, last
•- hu ?, e . access. £751 paid for ground and
£2162 distributed in prizes, of which Messrs. Inches and
Williams took £559 and £5lO respectively... .Maoriland
sport, G. G. Stead, won his second Auckland Cup recently
with four-year-old St. Michael (by St. l.eger from Ich
, en) ; cash value, 1500 gs. Same day his Cruciform
closed on Railway Handicap, worth £4OO, and his
San 1 atrieia on the Xmas Handicap of £l5O
Grandmaster - Algeria stallion Gibraltar, the sire
of Rock Gun, Semiramis and some other fliers died
at Neotsfield last week in his 13th vear. He’ wore
the scalps of A.J.C. Derby and V.R.C. St. Leger.
Tatts.’ Cup started ’6B. Top weight, Quiver’s 9.2. Won
by nags with under 7st. fifteen times... .Miss Annette
Kellerman at Sydney last week swam the mile in 34min
29secs. with double overarm stroke all the way. A record
in time and endurance Denny Maloney tackled
returned cohentingenter Joe Dunn at Sydney Golden
Gate Saturday night. A fierce battle till the police
stopped it and sent Denny home with the profits and a
pair of lovely black eyes... Favorite but unlucky shop-
double, the “Two Irons,” came off at Tatt’s. meeting in
the Carrington Stakes and Tatt’s., and New Year’s Gift
and Tatt’s.
* * * *
Tut Ryan and Billy M'Coll gave a farcical
bruising exhibition of seven rounds at Sydney Gaiety
A. C. last week. Ryan—hog fat—brought the balance to
something in excess of 14st. though his ringside poundage
was announced as 12.4. Blubber literally hung over his hips
anrl round the ring like a jellyfish. First
round M Coll—trained to the moment—wore a scared
.ook, but subsequently forced the game and had much
the better of thing's, though hardly sending in a really
solid punch once. The affair looked a bit gory at one
stage through an old cut on Ryan’s left eye being re-
opened. M'Coll tired in the sixth and seventh rounds
but t other cnap was a lot worse, and the wipe went up in
his corner ere the eighth 3min. began. The crowd
hooted, but that was scant satisfaction for having to pay
to see a comparatively new hand and a to-all-appearance
absolutely untrained old has-been jig round each other
Ryan had underrated the Armidale piclc-and-shovel man
who, though not a Foley or Jackson, is a strong, gritty
fellow, full of fight, and always well, because he knows
no excesses.
* • • *
Mr. Fred. Thomas, among Sydney’s front-rank
bowling thusers, died on Sunday, cetat 37, through
injuries received while trying to stop a runaway Chinese
xx e S e «r ?> cart- Mr ' Thomas was for years secretary of
N.S.VV. 8.A., and latterly vice-president of the same
body. He represented N.S.W. in many inter-State
bowling matches.
* * • •
Mile supremacy of N.S.W., at Otter S.C. gala
in Hellings’ Domain Baths, Sydney, Saturday, looked
Sure for Geo. Read. First 50yds. saw him lead, and ever
afterwards till the end, he added to his advantage
getting home with a margin of 25yds. in front of the only
Other starter—boy Dick Cavill—who struggled grittily all
the journey, but couldn’t pace it with his rival. Time
(24 52 3-5) was 5 4-ssec. slower than Read’s world’s record
(24 46 4-5), set up last year. Read’s falling off was
brought about by unusual roughness of the water and
the fact that, towards the finish, symptoms of cramp ap-
peared, otherwise new figures might "have been created
Cavill occupied 25 20 1-6 in his effort.
* » * •
The style in which M. Lewis won the Druids’
Wheel Race, at Melb. Exhibition Oval, showed plainly
enough what the Austral result would have been if the
other front-mark men had helped the sturdy Westralian
to make pace on the grass track. Handicap conditions
for Martin, A. C. Middleton, and M. Lewis were exactly
the same in both events, but the Druids’ Race was run to
kill the back-mark men, and they died away accordingly
Martin, who gave up the struggle in the sixth lap, must
have thanked his Austral stars when he saw Lewis sprint
away from A. C. Middleton and co., and pass the line a
four-lengths winner in 4min. 16sec.
• • • *
“■F.”: Melb. Bicycle Club “inquiry” into the
morals of last Austral, otherwise known as the Billmartin
Stakes, was the same old waste of time that bike racing
inquiries alwa} s were. Only two of the suggested de-
linquents were put on their oath, and all of them, oathed or
not, must have known that their replies couldn’t possibly
carry any weight. A man under suspicion of sporting
malpractice is the same sort of witness as a co-respondent
m a divorce case. The M. 8.0. committee asked each of
the summoned witnesses to say if he had tried his best to
win, and the answer was “Yes.” Whereupon the com-
mittee said, “ Are you a liar ? ” or words to that effect.
The answer was “No.” As to the rest of the evidence,
the tribunal referred it to the blessed League with the
remark that “an undesirable state of things had been
disclosed.”
• » * *
The twenty-five mile Leiteh road-race held at
Warrnambool, Victoria, on Dec. 12, proved a good
thing for that sterling Massey-Harris rider, A. Lawlor.
P. 0. Kearney, another Massey pedaller, trained a well-
merited third place ; and R. Anderson, on his Silver
Ribbon wheel, secured fastest time.®
* * • •
A. E. Smyth, the brawny Sydney no-cash
cyclist, on his Massey-Harris racer, geared to 120 inches,
has astonished the friends of the 15-stone plugger by
riding the J-mile in 24sec. dead, and the £-mile in
48 4-ssec., being respectively 2-5 and 4-ssec. under pre-
vious best by Rawson, of England. This is the first time
an Australian rider has secured a world’s amateur record.*


USEFUL and
ORNAMENTAL.
CHATELAINE BAGS and PURSES.
We Stock a Large Variety in
the Most Up-to-da'e Styles.
Silver Chain Purses, from 0/6 to 45/-
Silver Hall-Marked Purses, with Chain
attached, 45/- to 60/“
Silver Hall-Marked Mounted Leather Bags,
from 0/6 to 40/
A>
ft
VELVET CHATELAINE BAG
Mounted in Hall-Marked Silver
40/
All Goods forwarded to any Part of Australia POST FJIKF.
THE MODERN ART JEWELLERY CO.
187 PITT-ST., SYDNEY
(Next Shadier’s Cafe).
|t is SGcb a HANDSOME MODEL ——™
P|aSSey-Narri£ Bicycle
Not only runs easy and keeps running easy, but by reason of its elegant lines and instantly observable high-
grade finish in every detail sets off the rider in a way a thorough-bred horse does. There is the stamp of
quality. ... We offer very Easy Terms.
WEST AUSTRALIAN BRANCHES at PERTH and KALGOORLIE.
DEPOTS: Sydney, Melbourne. Adelaide, Brisbane, Wellington.
Agents in every
Town . .
t
PIKE BROS.
Brisbane. Townsville. London.
.. . RENOWNED SPECIALITIES .. .
SUPERIOR READY TO WEAR
INDIAN TROPICAL CLOTHING.
Exceptionally well cut and highly tailor-finished.
Made to our Special Order and Measurements in India.
FINEST ASSAM SILK
COAT and TROUSERS
COATS—Single, D.-8., and Norfolk shapes.
42/-
INDIAN TWILL FLAX ■*-*,£>
COAT and TROUSERS I ■ /O
OOATS—Single, D.-8., Norfolk and Patrol shapes.
A Perfect Fit ensured by customers sending Height, Chest, Waist and Inside
Leg Measurements.
Write for New Illustrated Catalogue (Commonwealth issue) and Samples.
Fish
Game
Potdtiy
QUALITY
PRICES
- the Best
the Lowest
Retail Depot: 155 king st., Sydney
Finest Display in Australasia.
Parcels delivered Town or Country.
Price List on application.
The N.S.W. Fresh Food ice Co. Ltd.
King Edward commands Bishop Webber,
of Queensland, to preach at Sandringham. An-
other milestone on the road to an English
bishopric. When the Queen died, the Bishop at
once announced that the new Brisbane Cathedral
should be a memorial to her. There was “savvy”
there. When York visited Brisbane, the Bishop
rushed him to lay the foundation-stone. “Savvy”
again. And now he preaches to King Eduard.
Can such a man be kept out of an English see ?
Died, in Melb. Children’s Hospital, 2nd
Jan., Willie Taylor, a baby of 5, who, on 26th
Oct., fell from a G-ippsland train, sustaining injury
to the skull, and, in spite of two operations, re-
mained unconscious 68 days. This is not a record,
as Bishop Courtnay, of Jamaica, quotes, in “ The
Future State,” a case mentioned by Astley Cooper
of a sailor who fell from a yard-arm, and remained
unconscious above 13 months. He was then
trepanned, and recovered.
w
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
fdh
SCARF PINS
*
We Stock in Large Variety.
New Designs, Unique Designs.
Exquisite Designs, Refined Designs.
WORKMANSHIP
London’s Best.
The Highest Standard.
Done by Artists in Gem Work.
Our Prices are as low as London's lowest.
Our Stock of Unset Pearls and Diamonds is one of the largest in Sydney.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
Vice-Regal Jewellers, *3 S j Syd „ ey
We also make
THIS itw-
in smaller
Gems as low
LONDON
PRICES.
PLAIN
FIGURES.
STRICTLY
CASH.
Choicest Pearl and
Best Brilliant Cut
Diamonds, £7 7s.
The cable by which Seddon offered his
eighth contingent for service in S’Africa, con-
sisted of about one line concerning troops and
about two dozen lines of what ought to be done to
people who disapproved of the war, and what
would have happened to them had they been in
Maoriland instead of in Britain. Almost im-
mediately afterwards Wellington Trades and
Labor Council met and said most disrespectful
things about the war, the despatch of any more
contingents, and King Dick himself, and talked
angrily about capitalistic murder and things like
that. And none of the serious things Seddon said
would happen to such people have ensued.
The holidays, with their festive moments,
have been laid aside for another twelve months,
and the nation has resumed its normal state of
toil, with drinks between the acts. And D.C.L.
whisky, which added so largely to the gaiety of
this nation during the recreation interval, has
resumed its cherished duty of adding to the pro-
sperity of its consumers by inspiring keen thought,
enterprise, and progressiveness. D.C.L., as the
Whisky of the Wise, has many important sides to
its always good character.*
“ Piles and Their Cure.”—The pamphlet
by Albert Sharp, entitled “ Piles and the Way to
Cure Them,” without operation, sent free, on
application to the Sydney Depot, 257 George-
street.*
The recent Towitta (S.A.) tragedy,
wherein an unaccountable man is alleged to have
broken into a farm-house late at night, and, for
no visible reason, cut a girl’s throat, was
attended all round by a lot of mystery and a
great deal more running for assistance than run-
ning at the alleged intruder. Two girls occupied
the cottage, but two brothers (aged 15 and 18)
slept in a building about 100 yards away. Mary
Schippan (aged 24) ran for her brother, August
Schippan, and told him about a strange ruffian in
the house. August Schippan ran half-a-mile for
Fred Henke. He came back with the informa-
tion that Fred Henke had advised him to run for
Alfred Lampert, Then apparently all three (the
two brothers and sister Mary) went back to the
house, waited there a little while without going
into the bedroom to see if the strange man
was still there, and then ran for Alfred Lampert.
He was the first person concerned who ran his
hardest in the right direction, but when he arrived
there was no man—only the dead body of 14-year-
old sister Bertha on the floor with her throat cut.
So far, it appears that nobody, save Mary
Schippan, saw anything of the man ; the dead
girl was not outraged ; nothing is said about any-
thing having been stolen ; the black tracker,
according to the telegraphed report, can find no
trace of any man at all, and the murder was
done with a knife belonging to the house, which
knife, stained with blood, is said to have been
afterwards put away in a safe. Altogether a
curious series of events.
Jones was forever pestering the other boarders
in his hash-foundry with his ideas of the usefulness of
corns as weather prophets. He had a pet corn, for which
he claimed infallibility ; it hurt him, but he said it was
too useful to part with. His corn “ said it was going to
rain ;” his corn “ predicted a hot north wind ” —he even
got so far as to claim that that accursed excrescence fore-
told a disturbance in Central Australia. And it was then
his victims lost patience, stole into his room one night
when he was fast asleep and removed his precious
barometer for good and all with one of Arbenz’s Patent
Corn Extractors, bought for 2s. 6d. at M'Lean Bros, and
Rigg, Ltd., 107 Elizabeth-st., Melb.*
fd
The warning cough is th©
faithful sentinel. It tells of
the approach of consump-
tion, which has killed more
people than war and pesti-
lence combined. It tells of
painful chests, sore lungs,
weak throats, bronchitis,
and pneumonia. Do not
suffer another day. It’s use-
' less, for there’s a prompt and
safe cure. A cure for fresh colds
and old colds, easy coughs and hard
coughs
Ayers
Cherry Pectoral
It often cures a fresh cold in a single
night, and it masters chronic coughs
and bronchitis in a short time. Con-
sumption is certainly prevented, and
cured, too, if taken in time.
If anybody tells you that consump-
tion cannot be cured, they are certainly
mistaken, for we have thousands of
these cases reported to us, absolutely
cured, and no mistake about it.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral Plaster placed
directly over the tender, aching lung
is a great aid to the Cherry Pectoral.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co. f Lowell, Mass., U. S. A
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY A 1
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“ Ellis’King-street Coffee Palace,’
situated 50 KINQ STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor • - GEO. W. ELLIS.
S 3
what one of
the largest coachbuilders in
the Commonwealth has to
say about our
Read
Dunlop-
Kelly
Solid
Rubber
To JOHN REID & CO.,
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tybe Co., Adelaide, December, 1901.
Agents for The Kelly Solid Rubber Tyre.
Dear Sirs, —We are engaged in the manufacture and use of vehicles, having a stock of over
300 vehicles of every description—probably the largest in Australia, and we have great
pleasure in saying that The Kelly Solid Rubber Tyre has surpassed
our expectations. We have used several other tyres which were
Erofessed to be equal to all that was required, but our experience has
een that The Kelly Tyre possesses the greatest amount of endurance,
and where we think you have a great advantage is that your tyres
(according to our experience for two years) are able to resist the i
stony roads, retain their suppleness, do not get chipped,
and, what is more advantageous, wear quite smooth, and
do not come off the channels like others.
We have no hesitation in saying from our experience that The
Kelly Solid Tyre will wear out two sets of any other
Rubber Tyres we are acquainted with, and we defy contradiction
to this. We intend to continue their use, and cheerfully recommend
them to all who desire to secure comfort, combined with usefulness and
economy.—We are, Yours faithfully, JOHN REID & CO.
Section Dunlop»Kel)y Tyre.
Send for Booklet and Price List to
The Ounlop pneumatic Tyre G°- °f Jl us - [td. (
150 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY;
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, BRISBANE, and CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z,
AND AT


New Style 15c. Gold
Brooch, set Pearls
and Sapphire, £3.
No. FlOB.
oc. Gold Links, 17s 6d.
Silver, 4s 6d.
All Goods ssnt Free and Safe by Post on receipt of
remittance. Write for our Illustrated Cata!!r~ue-
p
No. F 96. ~ -
9c. Gold Links, £1 Is
Silver, 4s tld.
Style 16c. Ool«
l~Bror.cn, set Pearls and
Baby, £2 7s 6d.
No. F 5713.
Fine Quality Pearls and 15c. GoldNecklet of Exquisite Design, £l4 10s
Others, equally pretty, at £8 10s, £lO 10s, £l2 10s.
Vi
/fi-V
css
Gent.’s Sisrnefc King,
90. Gold, £1 10s ;
18c. Gold, 12 17s Gd.
No. lUir-P.n Box,
Cut-Glass and Solid Silver,
12s Gd.
No. F 1572. Magnificent 5-Light Candelabra, in Best
Silver-plate, £5 5s ; 3-Light ditto, £3 15s.
No. 247. 9c. Gold Tooth-Pick, 8s 6d ; Solid Silver, 3s.
9c. Gold Safety-Pins, 4s 6d, 5s 6d and 6s 6d
(according' to size).
No. F 4404. New Design, 45c. Gold Brooch, set
with Rubies and Diamond, £3 10s.
mu
No, F 5892. The New F.afc Penjil-C se, Engraved, 9c. Gold, £L 7s (sd.
So. F 945. 15c. Gold and Pearl set
Hearts and Knot Brooch, £2 2s.
No. E 9136. Solid Silver Sweet or Cake Forks, 3J inches
long, 3s each.
Massive Silver Cake or Fruit Basket, Saw Pierced and
■ Embossed, £l3 10s ; others at t'B.
No. E 9533. Small Silver-plated Saw
Pierced Sugar .Basket, Glass-lined, 8s 6d.
No. E 7168. Best Silver-plated and
Out-Glass Butter Dish. 12s 6d.
■
No. F 2504. Dinner Gong 1 , Polished Oak Base, Real Horns, Silver-plated
Mounts, £1 12s 6d.
No. F 548. Finest Silver-plate on Hard Metal
Hot-Water Kettle, £5 10s.
INDIGESTION ERADICATED BY KUTNOW!
IT IS ABSOLUTELY USELESS TAKING DRASTIC REMEDIES whose
mission is simply to’burn up the indigestible products which lie petrifying in the
stomach. Nature’s digestant, the gastric juice, when ( nee it begins, to flow freely
soon disperses the deposits, and assimilates and converts them into nutrifying
blood supplies. Unless the physiological machinery works concern ntly and har-
moniously the gastric juice supply is retarded, with consequent indigestion.
YOUR REMEDY must act specifically on all the organs—it must rouse the
Liver, purify the Kidneys, cleanse the Bowels, expelling all poisonous products.
This is exactly what KUTNOW’S POWDER achieves.
Good Effect on the Digestive Organs.
“94, Westminster Bridge Road, S.E.
“ I have already used your excellent prep iratiou, and am
assured that had I done so ye irs ago I should have b e;i
saved an infinitude of suffering fron a deraignnuit of the
digestive organs. No saline in the m irkj ,cm he eve 1
approximately compared to it as a pleasant, efficicio i“, an I
absolutely painless laxative. The stom ich m asfc b: beyo id
human aid that would not benefit from its use.
“T. S. LAWRENCE.
DYSPEPSIA REMEDIED BY KUT^OW!
nmaonnHwi
DYSPEPSIA is generally due to some stomach, liver,
or kidney disorder, and it is impossible to think of any
disorder of this character that cannot be benefiled by
Kutnow’s Powder. In most cases it acts as a perfect and
permanent cure. To anyone that is dyspeptic, constipated,
or a victim to liver torpor, a course of “Kutnow’s '’ will
furnish the same curative results as could be obtained from
several weeks’ treatment at some famous Continental Spa.
Kutnow’s Powder has an extremely purifying and softening effect on the skin,
improving the complexion and adding to personal attractiveness. Skin blotches and
pimples disappear after “Kutnow’s ” has been taken a week or two.
KUTNOW’S POWDER may be obtained in capsuled bottles of all Chemists and
Medicine Vendors. See that the Registered Trade Mark, “ Hirschenspiung ” (or Deer
Leap) and the autograph facsimile signature “S. Kutnow & Co., Ld.,” are on the .abel
and carton. Only these ensure genuineness. Remember that ordinary Drugs Salts, or
Salines are only purgative, whereas KUTNOW’S is distinguished by its valuable therapeutic
and diuretic force, made from the health-giving medicinal constituents of the famous
Continental springs. DECLINE ANY SUGGESTED SUBSTITUIES, THEY ARE,
AND OFTEN INJURIOUS. DEMAND KUTNOW, AND NOTHING
BUT KUTNOW, AND SEE THAT YOU GET IT
Proprietors: S, KUTNOW & CO. Ltd., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.C.
Proprietors In U.S.A.: KUTNOW BROS., Ltd., 863 Broadway, New York, U.S.A.
£.
A Nerve
Inv iff orator.
POWDER
lief resiling and
Cleansing.
KUTNOW’S POWDER BANISHES BILIOUSNESS
WHEN THE LIVER HAS BECOME SLUGGISH AND DISORDERED,
one does not remain in ignorance of it long. It is such an important organ that
whenever it gets into an unhealthy condition all the other digestive, assimilative,
and excretory organs are likewise affected. Pains are felt between the shoulder-
blades, there is a fluttering of specks before the eyes, a healthy appetite for food is
absent ; there is a craving for stimulants, and the victim becomes bilious, con-
stipated, nervous, languid, headachy, and low-spirited.
By cleansing a disorded liver of the impurities which clog it and render it
sluggish, Kutnow’s Powder restores it to a healthy condition, and renders it fit to
perform its proper functions. With the liver again in working order, the stomach,
kidneys, and other digestive organs are also benefited, as the food is perfectly
digested, the assimilation rendered complete, and the nutrition greatly increased.
Liver Complaint Much Relieved.
“ Ballinamallard, co. Fermanagh, Ireland.
“ Will you kindly forward me a bottle of Kutnow’s Im-
proved Effervescent Carlsbad Powder ? I have used your
sample bottle for a patient suffering from liver complaint,
and she was much relieved after each dose. I think it a
very good preparation and very pleasant to take.
“ L. COLE, District Nurse.”
“"S™ COKSTIPATIOH
THE DISORDERS AND INACTIVITY OF THE
DIGESTIVE AND EXCRETORY ORGANS, described
as Constipation, usually become extremely prevalent at
about this time, as the cold and damp weather dis-
courages out-door exercise and encourages the consump-
tion of the heavier foods and beverages. When the
digestive and excretory organs are deranged and the bowels
are no longer able to remove the waste matters that result
from the digestive processes these matters remain in the intestines, and some are
conveyed by the blood to the brain and nerves, which they poison and irritate.
Highly Approved by Medical Attendant.
“ Belfield, Lawrie Park-road, Sydenham, S.E.
“ Thank you sincerely for the sample of your Effervescent Carlsbad Powder which I
4-,, q oVint'f fima sxcrn for t.lip. nsp of mv wife, who has been in tl
inanK you sincere! v iur tne ut ,ywui ™ -
requested you to send me a short time ago for the use of my wife, who has been in the
habit of taking all sorts of so-called ‘fruit salts,’ but which she
habit ot taking all sorts or so-oaneu nuiu smo», um, »n>wi has now discarded in
favor of your Powder, as she finds it far more beneficial, without, at the same time, pro-
ducing tlie excoriating effects which she used to experience from them. I may add that
her medical attendant, a man of considerable practice in Sydenham, highly approves of
her use of your Powder. Tr , , „
J. DEISNEY (Clerk m Holy Orders).


The Discharged Prisoners Aid Society will
make a big mistake if it establishes an office to
which discharged prisoners must come for as-
sistance. The kind of prisoner most worth assist-
ing—the one who wants to forget all gaol associ-
ations and to start afresh—is just the one who
wouldn’t on any account advertise his misfortunes
by entering a door with the obnoxious sign-
board displayed above it. Prisoners should
be visited in gaol just before their discharge and
any possible arrangements made. An office may
be necessary for the society’s correspondence, but
the real society should be concealed in the hat
of its perambulating: agent, and he should be, if
possible, wholly devoid of the obtrusive air of
benevolence which gives some such agents away.
A good man who has had his nose broken at
cricket, and who wears a flannel shirt and a
miscellaneous hat, is the person required.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
tn£remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there ma.y be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, lor I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Logs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, l/ljd. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents •. ELLIOTT BKOS., Sydney Purchasers should
louk for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
gieen label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
I’ll Try It.”
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
The Result*
CRAIG & AITKEIM, N.s .W. Barber’s Supply
House. 680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
USE
SPOONER’S
SPOONER'S
IKTtHT LEATHER BOOTS
CUZED AID5M
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning- and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
STRENGTH for the WEAK
and NERVOUS.
“THE MEDICAL MONTHLY,” August, 1893, says : “ The firm of Arthur Hale
and Son, of 105 Regent Street, London, W., has distinguished itself in the develop-
ment of electrical science as a medical agent. By an entirely new method of applica-
tion they have succeeded in producing an Electric Body Belt, which for comfort,
efficacy, and genuineness, is unquestionably far superior to any previous invention.”
WE INVITE ALL intending purchasers of our IMPROVED and
PATENTED ELECTRO-GALVANIC BELTS and APPLIANCES
to a PAIR TRIAL and TEST before payment. Call upon us if possible.
If it is not convenient for you to call at our offices, request a friend or an
acquaintance in this city, or one coming from your own town, to do so for
you. We will first show you that our IMPROVED and PATENTED
ELECTRO-GALVANIC BELTS and APPLIANCES are genuine pro-
ducers of a continuous GALVANIC CURRENT by a MOST CRITICAL
TEST with the GALVANOMETER. And if you or your representative
cannot feel the ELECTRIC CURRENT from the GALVANIC
CHAINS in our ELECTRIC BELTS and APPLIANCES, we are will-
ing to place £lO 10s. to the credit of each of any two Charities you may
mention, either in this city or your own town or city.
We most cordially and respectfully invite any PHYSICIAN or
ELECTRICIAN to “inspect our IMPROVED and PATENTED
ELECTRO-GALVANIC BELTS and APPLIANCES, which we are
now offering for sale to the AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC.
y
Hale & Son’s Improved and Patented Electro-Galvanic Belts and Appliances are
Nature’s Chief Restorers. Our Plain Belt, our Special Belt and Suspensor for Gentlemen,
and our Abdominal Belt for ladies are guaranteed to he the most Scientific and Genuine
Electric Appliances yet produced. They will speedily relieve and Cure Nervous Exhaus-
tion, Rheumatism, Pain and Weakness in the Back, impart tone and vigor to the whole nervous
system, and make life a pleasure. We invite all sufferers, no matter what the disease or ailment may be,
to call or send for our Free Book, entitled, “Modern Treatment of Disease by Electricity.”
Consultation Free.
HALE & SON, Medical Galvanists,
105 Regent St., London, W., and 44 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
Please mention this paper.
. mk
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
The Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic, Is 6d, post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
PLAIN NOM€ TALK.
EMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1200 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1901 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted to any address for only 7s. 6d.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevassk’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court ok London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
Balzac’s Droll Stories, Is 3d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus. Leather hound, my price, 15s post paid.
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is 3d.
Pa, Ma and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music complete), Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Metal Working, Brazing, etc., Is 3d.
Send for my Illustrated Big Book
Catalogue- post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
Or. C' arks orx’a Electric T3sli,
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Ur. Clarkson’s Re-Invigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
vigour.
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
nentic Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
parts the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr ; CLARKSON’S RE-INVIGORATOR
will bring happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and Organs is truly wonderful.
wu b THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC.
Price—ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
y
CALL OR WRITE-
OWL
CUT
RATE
DRUG STORE,
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS. SYDNEY.
\TAOV
PTT
Granted Registration by the Government of N.S.W.
THE BEST
One Shilling Per Bottle.
UNSOLICITED
TESTIMONIAL
FROM THE . .
SOUTH
up the whole system
Messrs. FISHER and CO., 337 George-st., Sydney.
Barrengarrv, .Tune 2oth, 1901.
Dear Sirs, —I must write and tell you that your PHOSPHERINE is a
splendid medicin§ for the Head and Nerves. I believe it is the ±>ES±
MEDICINE EVER MADE. I will never be without it. It seems to brace
, and is undoubtedly an unequalled TONIC. T . , r TT .
Yours faithfully, WILLIAM HAY.
FISHER & CO.’S PHOSPHERINE
THE MOST WONDERFUL TONIC FOR LADIES, CHILDREN and DELICATE GENTLE-
MEN. REMOVES HEADACHE, CURES DYSPEPSIA, STRENGTHENS
THE NERVES AND HEART.
PHOSPHERINE IS A REMEDY FOR
BRAIN FAG. MELANCHOLIA, SLEEP-
LESSNESS, NEURALGIA, ANAEMIA, DE-
BILITY, IMPAIRED VITALITY, LUM-
BAGO, GENERAL WEAKNESS, AND THE
AFTER EFFECTS OF INFLUENZA.
For 20 years this Preparation has been a Boon
and Blessing to the Public.
Public Notice.—The Tariff will make no differ-
ence in our Price. It will still be sold, as it has
been sold for Twenty Years, at Is. per bottle.
Four times the quantity, 2s. 6d. per bottle.
To be obtained at all Chemists throughout New South Wales, Is. per Bottle.
oiinvo
None Genuine
without this,
Our Signature
sO
fj
Wholesale from Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Australian Drug Company, and all Wholesale Houses.
WHOLESALE PRICES, 9s. PER DOZEN. LARGE AND SPECIAL SIZE, 245. PER DOZEN.
SOLE PROPRIETORS AND MANUFACTURERS,
FISHER AKTD COMPAKTIT,
THE LEADING HOMOEOPATHIC CHEMISTS AND DRUGGISTS OF AUSTRALIA,
337 GEOROE STREET, SYDNEY, nearly opposite GENERAL POST OFFICE.
All Pilules, Tinctures and Drugs Fresh and Potent. A Large Stock of the Most Modern Medical Books on Hand.
Our Bottles Contain TWICE THE QUANTITY of the Imported Article.
FISHER & CO.’S
ORIGINAL AND GENUINE
FIKHEKIII
% Post Free Everywhere,
For that bpol l
USE
apilla
.XIvAWVWWW
Hi
H
ftfonic
IE
itie oiiiy diuteu
HMr Restorer.
NO DOUBT you have spent pounds in experimenting- with so-called
Hair Restorers (?) without receiving any benefit from them,
and naturally you are somewhat sceptical as to the merits
of any new remedy that is placed on the market for restoring the
hair to bald patches, &c.
The proprietor of Oapilla Hair Tonic is prepared
to treat you free of charge, just to convince you
that Capilla Hair Tonic will actually restore your
hair to all its old-time vigor. Could you wish
for any stronger guarantee than that ? Testimon-
ials and “ A Treatise on the Hair” posted free to
any address on receipt of post card or letter.
Capilla Hair Tonic is obtainable at all chemists &
storekeepers 2/6 per bottle ; or by post 3/2 ; full
course 17/2 from the Proprietor, W. RICHARDS,
14 Imperial Arcade. Sydney.
Obtainable from G. Swift, 292, Coliins-st,, Melbourne,
Viet. r'rW 8/- post 3/9, full course, 6 bot. post 19/2.
hfd
FREE!
A BEAUTIFUL SOLID GOLD RING set
with a Genuine Garnet.
NO MONEY WANTED.
Simply send us your name and address, plainly written on a postal card,
and we will send you 20 packages of our imperishable Violet Perfume in
a box —free of all expense to you. You then sell the perfume among your
friends and neighbours at 6d. a package (if you can), and when you remit
us the mone you have collected and we will send you Absolutely Free
for your trouble the above described ring, which is stamped and war-
ranted Solid Gold, set with a Genuine Garnet. Remember
you have no duty or charges of any kind to pay— both the
perfume and premiums are sent absolutely Free of all charges.
Our object in making this marvellous offer, and giving such un-
usual fii e premiums, is to get our very superior perfume into the
hands of the public immediately, as we are satisfied that everyone
will be so well pleased with it that they will gladly recommend it
to their friends—we have hundreds of unsolicited testimonials.
You simply send your name and address plainly written on a
post card, and we will send the perfume. No money retired.
We take all risk. Goods returnable if not sold.
Remember we pay all Shipping Expentei.
NATIONAL SUPPLY CO., 38 Pitt St., Sydney, W.S.W.
DEAFNESS
l N addition to the inconvenience inherent in the lnfirm-
L ity itself, Deafness has a marked influence on the
Mental Development of the individual, when the latter
lias been attacked by it in youth.
For a long time Deafness and Chronic Affections of the
Ear have been considered almost incurable, but recently
• i very simple means has been found in the Electricon to
■uccessfully apply Metallic Galvanic Electricity direct to
he ears, permanently curing Deafness, and completely
banishing all distressing head noises.
Those who are interested in the subject would do well
to read the complete description of this method of treat-
ment in the Journal for the Deaf, published by the
L. R. VERNON COY., 60=64 Hunter St., Sydney,
and sent FREE to anyone asking for it.
Castro’s Last Sacrament
By ALBERT DORRINGTON. As 6d.
Drunkenness Cured
The Remedy can be given in Tea, Coffee, or Food,
thus Secretly Curing the Patient without
his Knowledge.
rpHIS CURE FOR DRUNKENNESS has shed a radiance
J- into thousands of hitherto desolate firesides. It does
its work so silently and surely that, while the devoted
wife, sister, or daughter looks on, the drunkard is
reclaimed, even against his will. Mrs. J. HATTON, who
cured her husband with EUCRASY, now writes us that
sh ■ has also cured a near and dear relative, and makes a
most earnest appeal to all other women to save the
drunkard. We will post free books and testimonials from
hundreds who have been cured, and Everything needed
to aid you in saving those dear to you from a life of ulti-
mate poverty and disgrace. Address—
THE EUCRASY CO.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
GIRLS AND GRAY HORSES
J 2nd Edition. Price 4/6.


“ Uloola ” writes :
The young man, Alfred Buckley— or Alfred Peckham—
who was shot dead by the station-master while burgling
at Guildford (N.S.W.) railway-station, was a most ex-
emplary youth, being employed on Sundays as a sort of
churchwarden at the local Church of England. He
showed people to their seats, and went round with the
plate. Yet this apparently-innocent, bucolic boy went to
work on the “ burglar-proof” iron safe with the skill of a
professional cracksman. He industriously chiselled the
heads off the rivets at the top of the safe, working from
one corner along each side for some six inches, and the
portion of the safe-top—a sheet of iron half-an-inch
in thickness—thus released, was forced up and bent over,
leaving a hole through which both hands could have been
thrust. The ladder by which he reached the office win-
dow was made of a couple of thin saplings with rungs of
fencing wire. On two previous occasions similar ladders
were found in the scrub near Guildford station. The
same station has twice before been burgled, and no clue
as to the depredators was ever discovered. On the first
occasion a case of wine was “ lifted,” and the empty case
was afterwards found in a bush not far from Peckham’s ;
the second time letters were taken and opened and an
unsuccessful attack made on the safe.
The Sydney Ferries Company, which
divides 10 per cent, dividends with great regu-
larity, has had a dispute with its firemen
and deck - hands over the number of hours
worked and the rate of pay. The company
suggests 120 hours for a fortnight’s work at 70s.
for firemen—sevenpence per hour; and 40s. for
deck-hands—4d. per hour. The latter want 50s.
per fortnight, or one penny per hour more than
offered by the co. When one considers wages
like these, and also thinks of the great mass of
pastoral and agricultural employees who haven’t
wages even like these, the eight-hour and mini
mum wage movements which make something of
a show in the city seem like a small dab of white-
wash on a pretty big sepulchre.
The Law Times tells this yarn : The co-
respondent in a recent big divorce trial employed
a firm of solicitors, who worked up the defence so
skilfully that the petitioner lost his case. The
bill of costs was heavy, and the “co.” wrote to his
legal advisers to that effect, and, in the firm’s
opinion, was needlessly violent about the matter.
He wanted the various items set out in detail,
and declared he would have the bill taxed by the
court. The solicitors sent back an itemised
account which made the total bigger than before.
One item ran: “To attending you when you
admitted committing adultery with Mrs. X.,
6s. Bd.” The bill wasn’t sent in for taxation.
A
AYtS
t> I do not ask you to spend
money to test whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Yltus’
Dance, etc. All I ask of you
is to SEND for a FREE
Pottle and to try it I abide
by the result. A safe remedy-
approved by the Medical
Profession.
H. G. ROOT, 28,Endsleigh
Gardens, London. N.W.
amusements.
AIETY THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Maggie Moore.
EVERY EVENING. EVERY EVENING.
Phenomenal Success of
MAGGIE MOORE
IN THE OLD FAVORITE,
STRUCK O I L,
Supported by her Own Dramatic and Comedy Co.
Popular Prices—3s., 2s. and Is. J. E. MOORE, Manager.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
* Sole Lessee and Manager T
Bland Holt.
EVERY EVENING. EVERY EVENING.
The Record Melodramatic Sensation,
THE SPAN OF LIFE.
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. 6d., 25., Is. 6d. and Is. Box
Plan at Allan’s.
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
BJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
“ ® Sole Lessee and Manager : Mr. J. C. Williamson.
B is. Manager, George Tallis. Treas., E. J. Tait.
EVERY EVENING,
THE GREATEST OF ALL GAIETY SUCCESSES,
SAN TOY,
The Record Success of the English Stage, interpreted by
the full strength of the Fain hi <
ROYAL COM! OP£RA CO.
MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY at 2 p.m.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
Acting-Manager .. Thos. P. Hudson.
EVERY EVENING,
THE GREAT CHINKS.i-JAPANESE ATTRACTION,
A Unique and Extraordinary l| a fl fl I M
Spectacular Operatic Extravaganza— AL A U L5l l\l.
ALADDIN .. MISS NELLIE STEWART.
Produced on a Scale of Magnificence Unsurpassed in any
Part of the World.
MATINEE, SATURDAYS, at 2 p.m.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allan’s.
IJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
B
PARAMOUNT SUCCESS NIGHTLY of Lea & Rial’s
THE WORLD’S^EHTERTAIHERS.
SPECIAL ENGAGEMENT OF THE MARVELLOUS
LOTTOS ; ALSO MR. WALLACE BROWNLOW.
Prices—3s., 2s. & Is. Matinees Wednesdays & Saturdays.
JOE BROWN, Business Manager.
Agents wanted in every town to repre-
SENT US. Liberal Commission.
Davies Franklin Cycle Co., Ballarat, Victoria.
im d
L—STICK NO
FOOTBALL Tqii i <s
MATCH |° LLb
NEXT
!\TUROAY
m
MIGHTY i
ALOK
THE FAMOUS
TONIC AND PICK-ME-UP
T
THE FIHOHITE IHOtniHt OHIHH •'
Footballers, Cricketers,
Cyclists, Etc.
Unintoxicating, yet containing more Sustaining
Power than Alcohol.
When out of sorts take a drink of MIGHTY ALOK.
ALOK saves Doctors’ Bills.
REGULAR DRINKERS OF ALOK ENJOY CONSTANT GOOD HEALTH.
All Respectable Hotels, with Soda Water, 6d per glass. All Chemists, 2/6 and 4-/6 per Bottle.
0
Nearly Opposite
G.P.0., SYDNEY
Pharmacy: FISHER & COMPANY, 337 Ceorge-St. (
Melbourne Laboratory: 407 Collins-St.
“ THE BULLETIN" ON THE GREAT CYCLIST :
Martin at list, is lighter now than at any previous time during his Australian
career. His success is largely due to total abstinence from Intoxicants, and getting
to bed early—a system which he rigidly follows.
TO MESSRS. FISHER & CO. MELBOURNE, SEPTEMBER 24. 1897
GENTLEMEN,—I HAVE MUCH PLEASURE IN TESTIFYING TO THE EXCELLENT PROPERTIES OF
YOUR FAMOUS TONIC. I ATTRIBUTE MY PHENOMENAL SUCCESS IN AUSTRALIA AS A CYCLIST TO
THE USE OF IT. THE STAYING POWERS IT POSSESSES HAVE BEEN WELL ILLUSTRATED IN SOME
OF THE RACES I HAVE WON, AND I WILL STILL CONTINUE TO DRINK IT.—YOURS, &c.,
W. MARTIN, American Cyclist.
Amusements.
EMPIRE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
™ Castlereagh-street, next Fire Station, between
Bathurst-street and Liverpool-street.
Railway Trams pass the Door.
Lessees .. .. John Fuller and Sons.
A PANTOMIME BOOM—A BOOMING PANTOMIME.
Robinson Crusoe—Robinson Crusoe
HIS MAN FRIDAY and the GIDDY GOAT.
Every Evening at 7.45. Saturdays and Mondays, 2.30.
Prices—2s., Is., and 6d. Children half-price except 6d.
seats. Matinee Prices—Children half-price all parts.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole-Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas.. J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
RETURN TO SYDNEY FOR A BRIEF SEASON,
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S GRAND ITALIAN OPERA CO.
THURSDAY, JAN. 9, FAUST (last time).
FRIDAY, JAN. 10, IL TROVATORE Cast time).
SATURDAY NEXT, JAN. 11, Giordano’s Famous Work,
FEDORA, with an Exceptionally Magnificent Cast.
Dress" Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6s. ; Subscribers
Tickets, ss. in books of 40. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas. W. E. Bryer.
Every Evening, at 8. Matinees Every Afternoon, at 2.
ENORMOUS SUCCESS of
the Charming, Funny, Frolicsome, Entertaining Fairy
Pantomime, entitled
ALICE IN WONDERLAND,
B3T Prices as Usual. Plan at Elvy and Co.’s.
PALACE THEATR E, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Charles Arnold.
LAST NIGHTS of LAST NIGHTS
v CHARLES ARNOLD
ifi hisnGreat, Popular, and Pleasing Creation,
HANS THE BOATMAN.
Next Production, The Professor’s Love Story.
THE NEW TARIFF—3s., 25., Is. 6d. and Is. Nightly.
Plan at Paling’s. EDWIN GEACH, Manager.
I VOLI T H E AT R E, S YD N E Y.
Sole Proprietor .. .. Mr. Harrt Rickards.
Enthusiastic Reception of our Brilliant New Company
including
DERENDA and BREEN. MR. VAL VOUSDEN.
MR. J. W. WINTON THE ALLISONS.
MR. S. HOLDSWORTH. MDLLE. NADINE.
ATHAS and COLLINS, &c.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Matinees Wednesday & Saturday.
JOHN C. LEETE, Bus. Manager.
RICKARDS’ NEW OPERA HOUSE,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Mr. RICKARDS’ NEW TIVOLI SPECIALTY COMPANY.
Re appearance of MR. WILL WHITBURN, Australia’s
Evergreen Eccentric Comedian.
COLBY and WAY, THE LUNDGREENS, GALLANDO,
GEO. B. ALEXANDER, WESTON and YOST, 808 BELL
PEGGY PRYDE, CASELLI SISTERS, FOUR RIANOS
WILLIAMS SISTERS, MAGGIE FRASER, CLARENCE
SISTERS, DORA TAYLOR, ERNEST SULLIVAN,
and the Whole of the Great Tivoli Company.
THEATRE,
Sole Lessee and Manager ..
, SYDNEY.
William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING, at 8 o’clock.
BRILLIANT AND DECIDED SUCCESS
of WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION,
GrFtEED OP GrOLD.
PRICES— 3s, 2s and ONE SHILLING. Box Plan at Elvv’s.
HOLD TOUR CASE
O.
W
L
L
IN
HAND
hfd
CATARRH Causes DEAFNESS
Buy Ramey’s meditator and
prevent this. “A Sovereign
Remedy ” for half-a-sovereign
post free (remit by postal note or
coin securely wrapped and
registered). Treatment includes
Medicator, Inhalent to last tour
months and Nasal Ointment,
so-page booklet, “ What is
Catarrh?” and treatment of hay
fever, etc., post free on request.
Home Catarrh Cure Co.. 229-231 Collins
l MELBOURNE.
St.
Too Stout
I was for years; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Sending, mention this paper.
BUSINESS, MEMORY, FIGURES. —“ A business
M man’s book, really a useful little work, gives a host
of sound business maxims and valuable hints.”—S. E.
News. “ The memory system is ingenious.”—S.M. Herald!
“ Crowded with curious short cuts of calculation ; should
lead on to fortune.”—S.D. Telegraph. Postal note Is
J. O. COX, DARLING ST., BALMAIN, SYDNEY. ’ '
A PROGRESSIVE DIETARY, unique In providing nourishment suited to the growing digestive powers of YOUNG INFANTS from
birth upwards, and free from dangerous germs.
The “ Allenburys”
The “ Allenburys ”
The “Allenburys”
Milk Food No. i
Specially adapted to the first three months of life.
Milk Food No. 2
Complete Foods,
STERILIZED, and
needing the addition of
hot water only.
Similarly adapted to the second three months of life.
Malted Food no. 3
For Infants ow six months of age.
To be prepared for use by the
addition of COW'S MILK,
according to directions given.
No. 3 Pood is strongly recommended for Convalescents, Invalids, the Aged, and all requiring a light and easily digested diet.
The London Medical Record writes of it that —“No Better Food Exists.”
PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING Free on application to the Wholesale Depot, 481, COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng.
COLLINS’ PATENT PROSPECTING DISH
Has the following' advantages over
the ordinary Tin Dish—
A Flange projects round one half and
and prevents the loss of any metal —
fine or coarse.
No experience is required to use it.
A boy can pan oil as easily as the most
skilful miner.
Double the amount of work can be done
in a given time than with the old dish.
Sold by all Storekeepers and Iron-
mongers throughout Australia.
If you have any difficulty in procuring
the Collins’ Patent Dish in your own
district write to—
R. JOHNSON CLAPHAM
JSt MORRIS, LTD.
78 Pitt-St., Sydney, and
231 Elizabeth-St., Melbourne.
Manufacturers under License from the
Patentee.
hfd
DR. J. BOLUS BROWNE'S
fHLORODYNE
VAf/tV
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
IHE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to ba
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
91
M)
$
.
n
/'tv
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
KELTS and
A RELIANCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Bents will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Bells give a steady sooth-
ing current that can he
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing-, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street. SYDNEY.
| OVVABD & CO. repair any instrument.
Queen-street, Woollahra.
"JI/TANDOLINES, from Is. weekly. Write for lists.
HOWARD & GO., Woollahra.
TJRASS INSTRUMENTS, from Is. week. HOWARD &
CO., Woollahra. Write for lists.
TI/TUSICAL BOXES and ORGANETTES, from Is. weekly
HOWARD & CO., Woollahra. Write for lists.
VOU can hang yourself on our VIOLIN and BANJO
x STRINGS. HOWARD & CO., Woollahra. Try them.
A BOUT 50 tons of MUSIC @ Id., 2d., 3d. and 6d. each.
Lists free. HOWARD & CO., Woollahra.
AUTOHARPS, from Is. weekly. HOWARD & CO.,
Woollahra. Write for lists.
UNS and RIFLES, 2s. 6d. weekly. Write for lists.
HOWARD & CO., Woollahra.
"CVLUTES, from 6d. each to 20 guineas. Cash or terms.
-E HOWARD & CO., Woollahra.
"TTIOLINS from Is. weekly, 1500 in stock. Write for lists.
' HOWARD & CO., Queen-st., Woollahra.
BANJOS from Is. weekly, all kinds in stock. Write for
lists. HOWARD & CO.. Woollahra.
A CCORDIONS from Is. week, 1000 in stock. Write for
lists. HOWARD & CO., Woollahra.
A NGLO CONCERTINAS, 30s. to £12125., cash or terms.
Wvito fnv liafc HOW A"R /Or. OO WaaTloVi»»o
rTIYPEWRITERS, 2s. 6d. weekly, brief and foolscap.
HOWARD & CO., Woollahra.
"PHONOGRAPHS from Is. week, also other talking
x machines. HOWARD & CO., Woollahra.
"DICYCLES from 2s. 6d. weekly. HOWARD & CO.,
Queen-st., Woollahra. Write for particulars.
"piANOS and ORGANS, cash or terms. Write for lists.
HOWARD & CO., Woollahra.
TJ OWARD & CO. extend their easy' terms all over the
- 1 - 1 - colonies. Queen-st., Woollahra.
TTOWARD & CO., largest time-payment firm in the
colony for everything. Queen-st., Woollahra.
•yIOLINS and FITTINGS of every kind.
HOWARD & CO.,
Queen Street, Woollahra.


A TRYING CLIMATE
TANTALIZES
A Brisbane Liver.
RESTORED TO ITS DUTY.
Th® Cat* of
Mr. TIMOTHY CABSIDY.
(by a special reporter.
Everyone In South Brisbane knows
Glenross, where Mr. Timothy Cassidy lives,
in Merivale-street, near the West End
Brewery. The house appeals to the eye on
account of its spacious verandahs and the
vines which climb everywhere over the
trellis. Mr. Cassidy himself, though
favoured with such a delightful domicile,
has in the past been favoured with any-
thing but good health. Speaking to the
writer, Mr. Cass'dy said : —“That he could
only regard his late illness as a time of
positive danger. I may tell you, in the
first place,” said Mr. Cassidy, “ that it
was no Budden seizure, but rather in the
nature of a gradual break-down. You- feel
% trifle ‘ off at first, and you think nothing
of it; next week .you feel decidedly ill,
but you neglect it, thinking it a mere
nothing, which time will cure. That is a
freat mistake. That is the mistake I made,
thought that no medicine was necessary.”
“ What were your first symptoms ?” asked
the newspaper man, who was anxious to
get to the case itself.
“Sickness,” answered Mr. Cassidy.
“Sickness used to take me in the morn-
ings, and I can truthfully say I never ate
before I had vomited. Every morning you
could find me awake at four o’clock, some-
times not having slept a wink all night. I
would.tramp the floor for hours, sometimes
retching terribly. Perhaps, at twelve
o’clock in the day, I should make steps to
eat something, but this generally came
back after a short time. Not eating and
not sleeping I gradually fell an ay. My
whole nervous system broke down. It was
necessary for me to be very careful on rising
from a chair lest I should fall down. I
always pulled myself together on the se
occasions, for if I got up suddenly the room
would seem to swim round before me, and
I should stagger.”
fr The liver, I suppose ? ” said the re-
porter.
“Yes,” replied Mr. Cassidy, “but that
was only one out of many disagreeable
symptoms. Terrible headaches came over
me at times, the pain of which was so ex-
cjpMsiating as to force me to hold my head
between my hands and walk backwards and
forwards. Across the breast I often felt
sharp pangs like as though an iron band
were being tightened round my body. My
mouth was in a terrible state owing to my
stomach always being disordered. I often
saw floating specks before my eyes, and my
face became pale and yellow. This was
biliousness, but it was only one symptom of
nay complaint, which appears to have been
a complication in connection with the liver
amoLkidneys.”
“■How long did your illness last ? ” asked
the newspaper man.
_ “ Months and months. It was a dreadful
time, and I never think of that period of
my life if I can help it, consequently I can-
not give you the precise information you
desire on that point. You must know,
however, that when I lived in Ireland I
suffered in the same way, though in a lesser
degree. Indeed, I came to Australia solely
for my health, thinking the climate would
have set me up.”
‘ ‘ Could medical skill afford you no re-
lief ? * queried the reporter.
“ No,” replied Mr. Cassidy, “ neither
here nor at home. At home the sea voyage
was recommended to me, whilst out here
the chemists and doctors tried scores of
different kinds of medicine. But all was
without avail. Well, I went from bad to
worse. I kept up as long as I could, but
at last my spirit broke down. I became a
mere mass of shaking nerves. The slightest
sudden sound would upset me awfully. I
couldn’t eat, I couldn’t sleep, I couldn’t
read, I couldn’t smoke, I could do noth-
ing but groan and endure, clinging, as all
mortals will, to the one straw of hope he'd
out to me by the numerous medical men
upon whom I spent so much. At length
even this small hope seemed to go. I gave
the doctors up rather than they should give
me up, and I settled myself down to wait
for the inevitable. It was during the
last stage of my illness that I was induced,
much against my will, to try one more
remedy. A medicine I was told that had
worked some wonderfully strange cures in
‘ all gone ’ cases.”
“ And that remedy was V r
“ Clements Tonic. ”
“But for Cements Tonic I would not be
alive to-day, and I tell you this in all
seriousness. Clements Tonic,” said Mr.
Cassidy, in a weighty tone of voice, “ had a
fixed determinate effect soon after I com-
menced taking it. It was no up a; d down
busihess. It was not like brandy, which
just props you up for a moment to let you
down worse than before. Its work was
steady, sure, and progressive. All the
symptoms I suffered from began to slowly
decrease at the same time. Not, of course,
immediately, but in a few days. My head
felt clearer ; I was less sick. The pain in
my back became bearable. I was able to
doze off, and felt refreshed when I woke
up. My food was less odious to me, and
soon I could feel that my meals were doing
me good. And as time passed on and I Kept
taking Clements Tonic—and I took a fair
amount before I was quite cured—l gradu-
ally grew stronger. I walked erect as a
n w maD, for I could feel that I was cer-
tainly on the high road to recovery. At
length I was completely restored to health.
You see me now,” said Mr. Cassidy ; “ do I
look weak or nervous ? ”
“No, certainly not,” replied the re-
porter ; and, to tell the truth, Mr. Cass'.dy
looks wonderfully strong.
“ Well, then,” said Mr. Cassidy, “if you
will allow me to repeat what I said befot e I
should not be standing before you this
moment but for Clements Tonic.”
“In which case, I presume, your grati-
tude for your cure will prompt you to give
us your permission to publish what you&ite
just told me.”
“ Publish every word of it. The publio
ought to be informed of the facts.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Timothy Cassidy, of Merivale-street, South
Brisbane, in the State of Queensland, do hereby
solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully
read the annexed document, consisting' of three
folios, and consecutively numbered from one to
three, and that it contains and is a true and faithful
account of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic,
and also contains my full permission to publish the
same in any way ; and that Ido not receive any
payment for the same; and I make this solemn
declaration conscientiously believing the same to be
true, and by virtue of the provisions of The Oaths
Act 1867.
Declared at South Brisbane, this eleventh day of
February, one thousand nine hundred and one, be-
fore me,
W. J. TROUTON, J.P.
y
>k "**
e m
AUTH
ZINC
BOX
h 2
m
£35
'///.
W/
Crozine Blacking
is a waterproof polish that produces a brilliant and permanent
gloss, which will not rub off. Shoes polished with “ Crozine
Blacking ” wear long, because it is an oil dressing, which softens
the leather. “ Crozine Blacking ”is guaranteed to be absolutely
free from all harmful substances, and will be found to be the
most satisfactory dressing made for all walking boots and shoes.
Sold almost everywhere. If not found, write at once to
C. L. HAUTHAWAY t, SONS, Boston, Mass., IJ.SA.
Bustle"** Annomtc ejnents. ___
6ood Tailoripgl
SUMMER
WORSTEDS,
TWEEDS,
SERGES,
&c., &c.
Patterns and Self-Measure Charts Post tree.
David Braham & Go.,
Tailors and Mercers,
73 AND 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Sole Agrents for AERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR
All Kinds of Shirts.
Price List and Samples Post Free.
Federal
Busi-
ness
Suits
In
All-Wool
Colonial
or
Imported
Tweed,
Navy
Serge,
Blue or
Black
Vicuna
Your money
back if not
satisfied
h
Well-Cut
and
Trimmed,
Properly
Tailored
and
Thor-
oughly
Depend-
able
Patterns
and Self-
Measure-
ment Forms
postedfr*Q
To Measure
Extra Pair of TROUSERS
GIVEN WITH EVERY SUIT
40 1-
Great Value! Our Famous Ready-Made
Federal Sac Suit
In Good Colonial or Imported Tweeds
all-wool Navy Serge or Black Vicuna.
Any size from 3
toy, SpecialT aifor
20/-
Padded Shoul-
ders, in and out
breast and ticket
pockets, etc.
made,fitted with Italian
Cloth inings
Carriage paid to any address in tht Australian
Commonwealth or New Zealand. , mm ,
DON Cash Trading Co.
173 a to 214 Johnston Street
Collingwood, Melbourne t
iWhen ordering give this number, No. 0123 j
ARE YOU WEAK,
Low-spirited, Tired of Life ?
Have You utterly failed in Your efforts
to regain health. ?
THE LANGSTON REGENERATOR WILL CURE YOU. n
Its effects are almost instantaneous, and t**e good
effects go on increasing from day to day
ARE YOU A SUFFERER from bad health in any of 1
its many forms ? Do you feel nervous, fretful, timid,
and lack the power of will and action ? Are you sub-
ject to loss of memory, broken sleep, feel listless,
moping, and subject to fits of melancholy ? Are your
kidneys, stomach, urinary organs, liver or blood in a dis-
ordered condition ? Do you feel generally debilitated ?'
Do you suffer from Rheumatism, Neuralgia, or other
aches or pains ?
Write to-day for the Doctor’s Calendar ; beauti
fully illustrated, and of vital interest to all.
Seek the Truth, it Costs Nothing. -
L y
No matter what you are suffering from, the
REGENERATOR restores the shattered consti-
tution like magic.
address :
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
Cor. RUSSELL and COLLINS STS., MELB.
RJ CORO’s
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope.
Agents for Australasia— PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne ; Wholesale Agents for Neiv South Wales —
Australian Drug Co., Ltd., O’Connell St., Sydney. All
Chemists, or Box 165, C.P.O.
€V€RY MAN
Should send for a VALUABLE PAMPHLET explaining
how all NERVOUS and ORGANIC derangements may be
SUCCESSFULLY TREATED by a NEW METHOD. It i 3
EASY and PLEASANT, and will effect a PERFECT and
PERMANENT CURE. Sent post FREE. Address—
THE BOTANIC INSTITUTE, VICTORIA CHAMBERS,
ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
TvEAR SIR,—I have been cured of Weakness and De
bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr. ROBERT
E. PARKHURST, Pitt-street. Sydney.
BLAIR’S
GOUT It RHEUMATIC
PIXiIiS.
The Great English Remedy for
GOUT, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO & NEURALGIA.
The acute pain is quickly relieved and cured in a
few days by this celebrated Medicine.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint erf diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout & Go., 229,
Strand, London, and sold at Is. l|d. and 2s. 9d.
per box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
THE
by using Wilson’s Com-
mon Sense Ear Drums.
Wonderful Results obtained in
cases considered beyond any
treatment. Soft, comfortable,
and invisible when in use.
Head Noises Relieved.
Pamphlets and Australian
Testimonials Free.
J. CHALMERS, Sole Agent,
229 Collins St., Melbourne.
]
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address— A. MMTAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
9
With Patent RUBBER FEET
. and HANDS.
Sole Agents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English
American and made to order
Silk Elastic Stockings, Bolts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, Ac.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, Jcc.
DENYER BROS.. Surgical Instrument Makers
281 GEORGE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
mt
m
The “Quaker” Turkish
& Vapor Bath Cabinet.
All who suffer from Rheumatism,
Liver, Kidney or Bladder troubles,
Neuralgia, Eczema, Night Sweats,
&c., should have one of these
Cabinets. Price 30/-
Head and Face Steamer, 4/-
, Can he forwarded to any address,
if. CHALMERS, Agent,
229 Collins St., Melbourne
THE NEW FRENCH REMEDY
THERAPION
This suc-
— cessful
and highly
popular remedy, as employed in the Continental Hospi-
tals by Ricord, Rostan, Jobert, Velpeau, and others,
combines all the desiderata to be sought in a medicine of
the kind, and surpasses everything hitherto employed.
THERAPION No. 1 maintains its world-renowned
and well-merited reputation for derangements of the
kidneys, pains in the back, and kindred ailments, afford-
ing prompt relief where other well-tried remedies have
been powerless.
THERAPION No. 2, for impurity of he blood,
scurvy, pimples, spots, blotches, pains and swellings of
the joints, gout, rheumatism, and all diseases fo which
it has been too much a fashion to employ mercury, sarsa-
parilla, &c., to the destruction of sufferers’ teeth and ruin
of health. This preparation purifies the whole system
through the blood, and thoroughly eliminates every
poisonous matter from the body.
THERAPION No. 3, for exhaustion, sleeplessness,
and all the distressing consequences of dissipation, worry,
overwork, etc. It possesses surprising power in restoring
strength and vigor to those suffering from the enervating
influences of long residences in hot, unhealthy climates.
THERAPION
may be procured of the
principal Chemists and
Merchants throughout the world. Price in England, 2s. 9d.
and 4s. od. In ordering state which of the three numbers
is required, and observe that the word “Tiierapion”
appears on the British Government Stamp (in white
letters on a red ground) affixed to every genuine package
by order of His Majesty’s Hon. Commissioners, and with-
out which it is a forgery.
Hypnotism
Reader, why not "bo able to nae the
I most mysterious and powerful force of
nature ? By my method you can learn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all the many marvellous feats
that are possible to the Hypnotist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain ; win reluctant affection,
gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explains
the mysteries and secrets
of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever published. For a short
time I wi 1 send this magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed on
receipt of 6d. (stamps) to cover
postage. Order to-day and learn
to Hypnotize. It is a c ance of
a life-time. Address—
fdh
i
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Dr. LANGSTON’S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
A Tested and Infallible Remedy,
Within the reach of all, can be given SECRETLY.
NO FAILURES. CURES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Home Treatment without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections. Call or write for treatise, posted,
two stamps. Prepared only at the Laboratory of
SURGEON LANGSTON
M.R.C.S. Eng;- 1
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.


try orders.
Tails. Plaits.
jr,S' IN ? ES * Res t Natural Curly Hair, 3/6, 6/6
7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each. TAlLS'and PLAITS,’
loner, 6/6, ; Extra Thick, 7/6; 24in
10/6; Extra Thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings Worked Up, 2/6 per oz
Don’t be misled. Our Plaits and Tails are
twice as thick as sold elsewhere at same
price. Send Color of Hair. “ Only ONE
Address”:— W. H. WIGZELL.
110 WILLIAM-ST., Corner of Palmerst.,
Sydney. Cable trams will stop at door All
work guaranteed Illustrated catalogue
post free Prompt attention given to coun-
Wigs made on shortest notice.
Butter Cooler and Meat Safe.
Reduces the temperature
15 degrees by capillary
action of water.
Price - - -5/- each
Postage, 1/- extra.
ICE-CREAM |
FREEZERS
which require no labor,
15/- each;
postage, 1/6 extra.
Send for Catalogue.
Brandt Bros.
fdh
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
And at 422 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
An old-age pension applicant in a N.S.W.
township told a story of hard luck. He had been
an employee on a station where it was customary
to allow the men 6 per cent, on any savings not
drawn at the end of the year. Lured on by the
big interest, he had left the bulk of his wages un-
touched for several years, and he alleged that
when the owner died the mortgagee stepped in
and refused to recognise the old man’s claim, and
he was turned away penniless.
“ Ga P ” : Be sweated clerks (B. 23/11/’01).
What chance has the ordinary law-clerk of a fair
wage when full-fledged solicitors are found worlc-
lng for £1 a week ? Writer has had to work for
the last three years, in a soul-destroying climate,
a k a wage that a self-respecting muck-shifter
would scorn. Couldn’t some .legislator engineer
ai \ a ui! ieriC^ c J ause the Factories Act to com-
pel blood-sucking attorneys to pay at least reason-
able wages ?
“ D.W.” : “ Mixed ” bathing in the nude
is comparatively common in parts of Victoria. I
lfa,ve seen it many times with cyclists of both sexes
and m parties of as many as five along the beach at
Sandringham, and I remember three women and
two men being arrested for “bobbing up and
< i7-°w n ” a t 10 o’clock on Xmas morning on St.
Kilda beach, right in front of the Esplanade. At
the approach of a policeman the cabman who
accompanied the party drove off with all the
clothes, leaving the blushing constable in charge
of five “ altogethers ” until another cab could be
procured. Also once, when sculling up the Yarra
about a mile above Princes Bridge, I came upon
half-a-dozen larrikins and a damsel of about 17
seated on the bank and drinking beer from bottles
in the intervals of bathing, the girl and two of the
lads being a.s stark as statues and as unashamed.
The lady, in fact, called to me to join the com-
pany, and my refusal was hailed with much
language and pelting of mud.
EDWARDS’
ARLENE
FOR
THE
I
iMfii
THE GREAT HAIR PRODUCER AND RESTORER.
The Finest Dressing:, Specially Prepared and Delicately Perfumed.
Has the distinguished honour of being used in almost every Roval
Palace throughout the World. y oyai
fdh
Monsieur Philosophow is commanded by
HER MAJESTY
THE QUEEN OF GREECE
to forward cheque for the six bottles of
Marlene ” duly received.
H.R.Hi Princess Marie of Greece wishes six bottles of Edwards’
“ Harlene for the Hair sent immediately.
Crown Prince's Palace, Athens, Greece.
„ H R.H. PRINCESS MARIE OF GREECE writes: Messrs Edwards’
Preparation, “ Harlene ” for the Hair, has given entire satisfaction.
H.R.H. The DUKE OF SPARTA
Harlene for the Hair sent by express parcel post.
Palace of Prince Royal, A thens.
requires six bottles of Edwards’
H.R.H. PRINCESS HOH2NLOHE
of “ Harlene” for the Hair by return.
Esterhazy Uteza,3o , Buda-Pest.
writes: Please send me three bottles
H.R.H. PRINCE GEORGE of GREECE (High Commissioner of Crete )
writes: Please to forward three bottles of “ Harlene ” for the Hair at once.
j-/»» 2 an d (3 times x/6 size), *t/S per Bottle, cuerywhere,
Beanie’s Bronchitis Cure.
the famous remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OE ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA. ’
Those wlio have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough Diffieulfv nf • rr •
Soreness in the Chest, experience deliglitful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable as it effects o p l -^ oarBer ? es8 > ain or
forting in al aymg irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic ’nor Comumnti™ S ' ?***'n UlB "T* C T'
'Z'l “ C °“ 8 h 8 " W b "“ I,roperly *"**“* Wilh thiS medidne - N ° *““• sh ““ ld * *«. - the hegS^^Ze’&gjSSrS^
BEWARE OF COUGHS J
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE lIIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mi;. W. O. He&rne. —Dear Sir, —I am writing to tell you
al»ont. the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
, A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can't be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREM ELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE. •
Violet Town, Victoria.
Tliree Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“ Llenwellyn,
“ Katunga, Vic.
“Mr. Hearne.—
“Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to my mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER."
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
* Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering frpm a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then onl3 r every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus—as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am
dear Sir,
“ Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.’
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunira,
Victoria. b ’
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as followsAs for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearn e* 8
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure. —I remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Five Years’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir, —Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. I am more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without it.
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Years’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
**Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of bronchiti,
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
y eari j' during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights .in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense qf duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment!
until I became, as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.”
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS’ CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville
Queensland, writes : —“After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having .been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then
which was in the beginning of 1883— 15 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it ”
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states’—“’l
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma."
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
w. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
' Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street. Svdnev Tel 35ft9.
Small Size. 2s 6d; Large. 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors.
BRANCH DEPOT-
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
.London Medical Record
FOOD for
Infants
9
BENGER’S FOOD is not only highly
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
' BERBER'S FOOD is sold in Tina by Chemists, So., every where.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
The aged.


Pleasant to the palate, pleasant in action,
and delightfully exhilarating and refreshing
in its effects—these are the qualities which
have earned wide-spread popularity for
((
“NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE-”
Acts Gently but Surely on the
KIDNEYS, LIVER AND BOWELS.
Cleanses the System Effectually,
Dispels Colds, Headaches and Fevers, and
PERMANENTLY OVERCOMES
HABITUAL CONSTIPATION
and all kindred complaints, speedily restoring health,
. appetite, energy and good spirits.
Ask for CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS and look for the Name
and Trade Mark of the
CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP COMPANY,
31 & 32 SNOW HILL, LONDON.
Australian Branch —7 Barrack Street, Sydney.
Of all leading Chemists, i/rj and 1/9.
illl (l MTO.^
GOOD
HAIR FOR
ALL
All Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and sriving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
OS’ For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
m" For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington H. Soul & 00.
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT
HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE,
m
.A
'■ "i
m
tv®
1 mi
■
HI
m
W
. . y.,- ■ :
HUP
wm l
s
i
fdh
Roast Pork.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Chinese meat-hawkers round about Goulbum-
street, Sydney, ply their trade in the open, any
afternoon, unhindered by municipal by-laws.
They wear no blue apron, or smock, or pendant
steel as insignia of their calling. One peddles
raw beef; the other “ losum po’k.”
The beef man sets his basket on a crazy chair
between two dingy shop-doors, and sells under the
verandah. The pork-purveyor deposits his plant
in the street gutter, scorning the friendly shade.
Perhaps roast pork, looks attractive in the sun-
light.
American money-weight scales strike one as
very modern ; the Chinese used their equivalents
hundreds of years ago, and the Chinese butchers
use them to-day in Sydney to weigh out penn’orths
of raw beef and salt-pork. These scales are
simple. Just a thin stick a couple or three feet
long, like a ramrod, balanced from a bit of string
rove through a hole near the centre and circled at
intervals by gilt rings with fractional dots between
the circles. From one end is suspended, by small
chains, a sort of metal dish ; this holds the pro-
duce. The weight at the opposite end of the
wooden “ steelyards ” is a rough junk of lead about
as big as your fist, and as shapeless, tied to a I bit
of string looped loosely over the “ ramrod.” The
scales appear to weigh in fourpences, or equal
parts thereof —Id., 2d., 4d., and so on ; each com-
plete ring of gilt dots represents four penn orth of
meat. I don’t know if the scales are legal; but,
as the salesmen’s customers seem satisfied that
they get their money’s worth, why should the
inspector of weights and measures interfere ?
The beef looks like flesh torn off shins of
bullocks, and juicy bits of skirting. The
salesman is an apologetic person who seems
to fully realise the impropriety of obtruding him-
self or his common wares on public notice within
the charmed circle of Roast-Pork. He knows
that his place is in the shadows, and he accepts
the pennies of those who cannot afford to revel in
the delights half-cooked pig with a proper
modesty. , ~ .
The pork-peadler has the limelight $ his cus-
tomers are wealthy, and he wears the supercilious
smirk of the dealer in art-goods. He is a study
in lordly grease. His box and basket (one slung
each end of his bamboo, in transit) are saturated
with pork-fat, the hot sun making it fairly bubble
out of them in glistening sweat. The bubbles
don’t glisten long, however, for they are turned to
dull brown paste by the dust that blows for ever
in grimy Goulburn-street.
Butcher, box, basket, and bamboo are covered
with flies. The Chinese also swarm when the
pork-man comes along. It is nothing uncommon
to see 20 or 30 at a time crowding round the
hawker, waiting to be served with 4d., Bd., or a
shilling’s worth of quivering fat in slices, or
chopped up into little squares. As they wait they
watch every move of the butcher. The pork-
vendor uses the lid of his box as a chopping-block,
and the sharp chopper goes squash th rough the
hideous mess like a spade through a rotten potato.
To cut through tho hard-baked skin the butcher
strikes the back of the blade with the heel of his
hand, and, as the short, sharp chop through the
crisD crackling announces that steel has touched
wood, the pendant lips of the expectant customers
tremble, and are drawn in with a gasp of watery-
toothed anticipation.
-•* * *
The buyers grab their portion, pay their money,
and bolt for their dens ; many of them eating as
they run, and jabbering with joy between each
mouthful. The pork-peddler drops the coin into
his pocket, wipes his oily hands on his trousers,
straightens his back, draws the dirty wrist-band
of his pork-stained shirt-sleeve across his
perspiring top-lip, deftly squashes a fly with
his third finger in the corner of his eye, smiles
condescendingly on the surrounding onlookers, and
waits for the next customer.
There are tit-bits; pig’s heart and liver, baked
dry and brown, are to be had in penn’orths by
those who can afford it. The penn’orths are chips
about as big as a thumb. The sales of the brown
tit-bits are nothing to the sales of the dust-grimed,
fly-adorned, luscious pork.
These Goulburn-street Chinamen tearing into
the junks of “po’k” with their yellow tusks, or
throwing the juicy squares of half-cooked hog into
their generous mouths, and sucking them as a
greedy nursemaid sucks jujubes, supply a spectacle
that almost persuades a man to change his nose
and be a Jew.
Chinese pork must be approached with the
reverence due to the other ancient institutions of
the yellow race.
JOHN DRAYMAN.
“Adelaide”: Recently came across the
“mail-order” catalogue of Zion City general
stores, run in Chicago by the prophet Dowie. An
amazing book, with about the bulk of six
Reviews op Reviews. Such a combination of
business and religion has never been seen before;
the Salvarmy is not in the same street. “Every-
thing to eat, wear, and use,” says the cover, and
the index bears it out. Everything you can think
of (except, of course, playing-cards and whisky).
Also a good many other things ; as thus : “ fired
basket teas,” “ badger squeeze albums,” canned
succotash,” “misses’ mitts,” “Zion stick-pins,”
and “The lost 10 tribes.” John Alex. Dowie
writes an introduction, naively headed, ‘ IVIy
Father’s Business ”(!). He quotes much
Scripture, and with special approbation
the parable of the 10 talents, where the good ser-
vant was promoted for making 1000 per cent., and
the bad one was d d for making nothing. ‘‘ He
would not even put it in Zion Bank, where it
would have earned a fair interest,” says Dowie,
improving the occasion. “The profits of Zions
toil and of Zion’s trade should not go to Zion’s
enemies,” is the gist of the whole matter, and
“in the name of the Coming King” the faithful
are invited to buy, “ at prices and qualities which
cannot be surpassed,” vanilla pudding and zithers,
hymn-books and furniture, “short chemises
(honi soit) and “ substitutes for lard, Bertha
fascinators ” and “ dried blood.” Cheapness is the
main feature of the collection ; bicycles run from
three guineas to a maximum of five, and alleged
diamonds are dealt out to the virtuous at about as
many dollars as the wicked usually give pounds.
The short garment already alluded to is priced
12|d., which suggests sweating, but for six bob
you can get one. with a curved yoke, very fine
torchon lace, and—further details. “The most
elaborate chemise in the market,” remarks J.A.D.
from the wealth of his experience. Payment
should, if possible, be made through the Zion
Bank. Oh ! the Salvarmy has a lot to learn yet.
Keepers of the Life to Come.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Of all the quiet, gloomy children !" exclaimed
Letty Newbury, vigorously, as she contemplated
the basin of water in which she was about to
plunge her heated face; “ —but what else could
you expect? If you had known what she felt
about that unfortunate child before it made its
appearance ! ”
“Oh! well, you know,” replied her husband;
“ you must remember she was pretty badly off •
all those children already; her husband laid-up,
and this other one coming along ”
“The more need to give it a cheerful disposition,
since she couldn’t endow it with anything else. Oh !
it’s horrible the way women go on ; don’t wonder
you hesitate about giving us the franchise—we do
our own work so badly. And the sickly senti-
mentality ! —must make all baby’s clothes myself,
and ruin baby's health !—ruining her mind—and
its mind —by eternal whining and grumbling.”
Jack laughed, but there was a tender look m
his eyes as he laid his hand on her shoulder, and
spoke—softly. , . , ,
Her eyelids drooped to her flushing cheeks.
“No, not mine,” she answered, at once proudly
and shyly.
* * * *
He had to sail for Sydney a few months later,
which was unfortunate; however, the “girls”
came to keep Letty company. The “ girls ” were
her sisters —maidens of 40. There was also the
gracious mother-in-law sailing in at odd times to
see how Jack’s wife was getting on. In spite of
all this, Letty bore up bravely, and Jacks little
house was ever ringing with her voice in laughter
or song. .
Walls are thin in Australian homesteads, and
the foot of the telegram-boy sent a thrill to the
bedroom floor that adjoined the parlor. From her
window, Letty watched him depart. Then, after
an interval, she heard a low, continuous sound in
the parlor. They were sobbing with a murmur
of words, till both were broken by a cry: “ Oh,
Jack ! Oh, poor, poor Jack ! ”
A rapid footfall—Mrs. Newbury, sen., was
entering the parlor.
A murmur again—interjections — In a small
boat —capsized—brought home —drowned ! Oh,
Jack ! Jack ! ”
Again, and sounding far away: We must
keep it from Letty just now.” But she had no
idea who said this.
* * * *
Dead ! Drowned ! That brought a shuddering
realisation of fallen j aws and stiffened limbs.
Then came another realisation, not less vivid, of a
dependent life pleading for its own existence,
pleading against the madness of grief to which its
keeper would fain have yielded. And she listened,
and obeyed. A year ago, without crime, she
might have cast herself down on the bed, have
given way to this tempest of grief, have indulged
it till indulgence brought weariness, tears and
sleep; but to-day she was as one apart, bound by
Nature’s law to have, for a time, no griefs, no
emotions, no life of her own. That was what it
meant to be a mother.
Quietly, by strong force of will, she forced back
the terrible truth, to be realised later. He was
dead ; yet for a few days, hours perhaps, he must
still live—for her. She set herself to remember
all the happy, unemotional incidents. of their
short married life —their laughter, their humor.
What would he be doing now ? He rose before
her, bright-eyed, full of vigor. A vision of a
white, dead face floated past her, but she kept her
imagination fixed on the bright eyes. She must
act as if he were living and would return. There
was that shelf of his with the botanical specimens
which he had requested her to arrange ; for this
was their affection, that he could ask her to do
something for him, and trust her not to do it if
she felt too tired. The average wife prefers to be
a martyr, that her husband may seem a brute.
Her hand trembled; he was dead ! The room was
dotted with points of darkness.
She dropped her face on her hands to bring back
the blood to her head. She called up the vision
again ; she prayed that God would let her see it
often till her guardian duty was done.
She saw him on the deck of a homeward steamer;
his eyes met hers, as, whispering words of com-
fort, he put his arm round her. On dashed the
steamer, leaping higher on the waves, while the
seagulls screamed behind. The skies darkened ;
the seas darkened ; his arm slipped from her, and
she was alone, in the storm and the tempest and
the agony . . . days, weeks, centuries !
The yellow moon mocked her from its curtained
clouds; faces gathered above it, giant faces. . .
“ Put the lamp a little farther away, nurse,” from
one of them; and the moon was shifted to the
other end of the sky. And the vision of Jack ap-
peared once or twice again.
* * * *
“Your husband will be up to see you again
soon,” said the nurse, cheerfully. _
She looked up with eyes that did not brighten.
“ No, nurse, he doesn’t need to come any more,
now baby’s here—and safe.”
Then she wondered, because the Vision came
again, and seemed to make itself understood even
by the commonplace nurse. She was surprised
that God still troubled about the matter when all
necessity was over.
The Vision followed his mother into the next
room. “ She still looks at me strangely,” he
complained; “I wonder what made her faint the
day I came back ? ”
“ I fancy she must have heard the girls crying
at the news of the sudden death of that scapegrace
brother Jack of theirs. I warned them to keep it
from her.”
“You needn’t have; he was before her day. I
doubt if she ever saw him. No, it couldn’t have
been that; and it couldn’t have been my un-
expected appearance either, for she was half-
fainting before I caught her in my arms. Any-
how, she’s all right now.”
“A little feverish, but that will go off.”
“ And the baby seems a nice little chap.”
“A beautiful baby,” graciously assented the
mother-in-law.
C. CLYDR.
What a misfortune for Australian Repub-
licanism if there were in Britain a monarch like
Kaiser William, accurately described by one of
his countrymen as “the moving spirit of the
army, the director of foreign affairs ; the patron of
trade, industry, and agriculture, hierarch and
supreme critic of art.” Of him the latest anec-
dote : A friend, when the Kaiser was a boy, spoke
with compassion of his withered left arm. The
boy’s eyes fired. “Ah! ” he exclaimed, “ but it’s
not my sword arm ! ” William is a monarch who
believes in himself and in monarchy, not a dull,
tired man laying foundation-stone 3 in a dazed
sort of way for a living. Royalty as run by him
must be really dangerous to human liberty.


KNOCKED UP
After a Hard Day’s Work.
1L
□
F
&
r*
»-• 0
All fagged out—Scarcely enough energy to get home in the
evening—No rest after you do get home—As tired in the morning
as you are at night—
Back so lame that you can scarcely bend it—Aches and
throbs and pains even when you lie still—
Kidneys are to blame.
They’re not taking the poison out of the blood—Need help,
and need it at once.
Other Sydney people have been in the same condition—
Hundreds of them—They’ve taken
DOAN'S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS.
And they’ve been cured—
Cured so quickly and permanently that they could scarcely
believe their own senses—
They’ll tell you about the goodness of Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills tell you with a glad earnestness that you can’t
help believing—
Read what one Sydney man has to say
tW work W ed Ve m ° n f 1
case I had been under three doctors at different but tK Wm. m “ y
good. I used to be so bad that I would have to be earried home !“ e f T. n ,°
came on when working or in the street. Sometimes when working t\! ! an a f tt , ack
bad, and would be taken to the hospital. My wife said she nevet e™* ka T e been j aken
through some of these bad turns. I suffered with a kTndtf vomiH T }T
stuff. My secretions were in a frightful state I could never bend mV K 1 ' e S£' bk ®
all when I had a bad turn. at^he'hospita?^gaTeiTecom
mended rubbing m liniments, but it was no use, they did me no Jnnd tII d re s om '
tisement for Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, stating that these Pilhf had" cured Mr” Durm"
and, knowing him, led me to procure this remedv T nnlv k * -Uunn,
Backache Kidney Pills, and they cured me. The first dose relieved ° n6 Vm 0 oan ®
finished them I started work, and have worked ever since It is T 16n I - Uld
but it does not affect me. These pills cured me after ve»rs of c ,£ y - k aT
was almost instantaneous. I might state that since 7 hen IhavfhacU bad Sf
lumbago, which laid me up one month. I tried several but neveK t k ° f
Backache Kidney Pills were good for this complaint. Then’ I remembered tW 1 S
few m a box, and, not having any other medicine in the house I tried them had 5
me. I procured these marvellous pills at Newman’s Pharmacy, in 7 CUred
You can buy Doan’s Pills of all Chemists and Storekeepers
at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes 15s. 3d.), or they will be posted on
receipt of price by Poster, McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
BUT BE SURE THEY ARE DOAN’S.
A Martyr to Itching Piles.
FOR OVER TWENTY YEARS, AND
PERMANENTLY CURED BY TWO
POTS OF DOAN’S OINTMENT.
Mr. M. J. Ryan, J.P., 398 Riley-street, a well-
known resident of Sydney, and all over this State,
writes the following unsolicited letter for the
benefit of suffering humanity. He says:—“lt
gives me great pleasure to testify to the great
worth of Doan’s Ointment. I have been a martyr
for over 20 years to the dreadful disease of itching
Piles, which very often nearly drove me mad. I
may tell you that during all those years I have
never had one good night’s rest. I tried scores of
doctors, both in Sydney and the country. I have
tried lotions and ointments, and I might as well
have used water for all the good they did me. I
am sending you this testimonial so that you may
use it in the interest of my fellow creatures, as I
am sure there are hundreds of them suffering the
same as I did. Now, I may state that two
months ago, I heard a gentleman telling another
of his terrible sufferings, and how he got cured by
Doan’s Ointment. lat once purchased a pot, and
I am proud to say that from that very night I
have slept sound, and without being tortured, for
the first time in 20 years. I continued the treat-
ment, and before I had used two boxes, I found
myself entirely cured. This is two months ago
and I have had no return of my complaint since.
I would willingly have paid £5O to any doctor if
he had guaranteed to do what Doan’s Ointment
did for me. You may publish this statement in
luh Bui^®tin or any other paper, and should
anyone wish to call on me or write, I will be
pleased to tell them of my cure in detail.—l am
dear sirs, yours very truly
T . M. J. RYAN, J.P.,
To McClellan Co.. ' 398 Eile >” 3 ‘ ree ‘-
76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
It cannot be repeated too often that Doan’s
csrfkthTßsfes zrs
take the manufacturers’ word for this, ask Mr
n ° WS ’ T° r lt; ° ur , ed him - and he lives
here m Sydney. Is not that the best possible
kind of proof? Could there be better? P
Doans Ointment is splendid in all Skin
Chdbr- 8 ’ f CZem ?’ - Sores ’ Hives - Ins ect Bites
Chdblains, &c. It is perfectly safe and very effec-
hSi sale b / all chemists and storekeepers
at 2s. 9d. per pot, or will be posted on receipt of
Sydney, e N y S W ter ’ McClellan Co > 70
Be sure it is DOAN’S.
The Trekkers.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Lord looked down from Heaven above and
measured the earth below,
Away to the outer fringes—to the ioe and the
polar snow,
For He heard the cry of the trekkers that rose
with a mighty boom :
“ Too small is the world, O Jehovah ! Give room
to us, Lord, give room !
We have planted our banners in legions till the
East and the West have met,
But the pain of our hearts is gnawing and driving
us onward yet ;
And the outer fringe is gleaming with the glint of
our flags unfurled :
Give room to us, Lord, to plant them—Lord, open
to us a world !
We have trekked to the polar circles till the
night and day are one,
And we lay in the grip of the ice-god, in wait for
a six months’ sun ;
We have cruised with iceberg-consorts in the
glai’e of a Northern sky,
When the scythe-cut prow of the Death-ship has
flashed as she passed us by.
We have followed the sun in his passage, and hung
in his glaring track ;
We’ve lashed the waves of the world to foam with
our ceaseless beat and tack ;
We’ve given the lie to fancies sweet of islands
d ream-impearled,
And mapped the deep like a land-locked bay—and
we crave for another world !
“We’ve blazed the paths through a thousand isles
embedded in Eastern foam ;
We’ve hugged the crest of a proud-born wave that
over the world did roam ;
We’ve crushed the myths created in the half-
world days of yore,
And oaptured the dream-fed phantoms as we
swept from shore to shore.
We’ve measured the whole creation—mountain,
valley and plain;
We’ve plumbed the depths of the ooean-beds and
the wonders they contain.
Our broken ships and our tattered sails, on a
thousand beaches hurled,
Are fitting emblems of our prayer: ‘ Lord, give
us a shoreless world ! ’
“Look down on your sons, Jehovah 1 for how can
our lives be sweet
When Earth, that borders the realms of Space, is
marked by a million feet ?
We fly from the spreading legions that follow the
trails we blaze;
But give us a world to fly to ! make a bridge of
the Sun-god’s rays
For the passion that drives us forward ! You know
from your star-gemmed throne
We have trodden this planet mile by mile and
measured it zone by zone :
It is scarred with roads and highways. Let your
trekkers’ flags be unfurled
Once more, O Lord, in your honour ] Make
us a pathless world 1 ”
There’s an army camped on the fringes, an army
sullen and worn,
Waiting with hearts undaunted, and with pennons
dusty and torn;
Camped at the End of All Things, on the sands of
the Shore of Space,—
The vanguard of all the nations, the rebels of
every race.
’Tis the Army of the Trekkers: in its last Earth-
camp it is met,
Waiting, lingering, hoping that its prayer may be
answered yet—
That God, from out the legions of stars in His
far sky whirled,
Will spare but one for His Trekkers—will give to
His Trekkers a world !
N.S.W.
JAMES F. DWYER.
Quart-Pot and Billy-Can.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
No utensil is so generally used in the bush as the
billy-can; none is more widely distributed; none
better known in Australia. It is cheap, light,
useful, and a burden to no man. It goes with
every traveller; it figures in comedy and tragedy,
and has been the repository of the last words of
many a perished swagman. Often it is found with
the grim message scratched on the bottom, beside
the dead owner.
Billy is famous. Story-writers and poets have
immortalised him; he figures proudly in a hun-
dred tales, in a thousand poems. It would be
interesting to know how he originated, and who
first carried him. He is probably an evolution of
** Quart-pot ” —or is Quart-pot an overlander’s
improvement on Billy ?
For a horseman or cyclist on a short journey
who has no cooking to do, the quart-pot is the
handier. But where there is one quart-pot in the
bush there are ten billy-cans. The billy is carried
in all manner of hands—black, white, yellow and
brindle. Shearers, miners, drovers, knockabouts
and even the poorest deadbeats on the track’
carry it a-swing at their sides. It is swung under
wraggons, bullock-drays, hawkers’ vans—every
kind of vehicle that traverses the bush ; and it
jingles a tune to the Afghan from the back of his
camel. The dainty housewife in town not infre-
quently sets it on her polished stove, and it often
takes the place of the kettle in the cookie’s
home. Go into any aboriginal camp in the bush
and you 11 see billy-cans there, but seldom any
other utensil. There is scarcely a camp or hut in
Australia without one, and some have a dozen
And what an array they would make if they were
all stood m line ! There would be a hundred
miles of billy-cans ! And the quarts and pannikins
that are carried about would build a mountain.
Every traveller has a pannikin or two, and one
or two billies. Some have three—of varying sizes
to fit one in the other. The tea-billy and "meat-
billy are the most common ; the third is an
auxiliary. Some swagmen have a special water-
billy carried in the hand, with a tightly-fitting
drawn oyer it to keep it cool. The bag also
prevents the footman’s trousers being blackened
rrom contact, and the horseman’s pack from being
“They are of all sizes-from one to six
quarts. The most favored are the two-quart for
tea, and four-quart for meat; while the general
-round billy is the three-quart size. I have seen
* r d U P aw agman w ith an improvised
SfoSa'S™ afrUlt ti "' Wilh *»»»«“*■«•
The man with one horse, having his swag
ln fro [ lt of him, usually carries a quart,
and borrows a bucket or billy at stations to boil
u Ma i iy ’ however, stick to the cans,
bl £ b bung t’ho D, or secured on top of the
pack. Some pack-horse travellers place them in
L the general wa y is to hang them
from the back or top of the pack, with a strap
tlght ru ° Ver them t 0 kee P them fr om
swinging. I have seen one or two who carried a
b " ckefc , u P slde do .wn on top of the pack, with
cross-straps ov e r it. A few carry a dish, and a
good many have a small frying-pan in addition,
fhit these can be dispensed with.
_T“® Queensland billy is the handiest for
unted men. It is flat on one side, and has a
-D in the centre of the round side for a strap,
inis can be placed on any pack and strapped
secured without trouble. The boundary-rider,
wWK r - er ’ / lnd su ? b m ® n ’ ln variably carry a quart,
which is strapped to the side of the saddle. The
+ S +K le the , double-handled quart-one
handle at the side and one over the top—with a
The^n?' W U }C l‘ - fi - S tightly into the quart.
Ihe pint-pot which is inseparable from the billy,
fi ha f u q . U l art ’ and a Pannikin is anything
smaller, though the term is now applied to nearly
a drinking- vesseis irrespective of size or shape.
hJi ® st .travellers are particular as to how they
boil their billies, for carelessness means waste of
time and injury to the billy. The old style was
to put a fork at each side of the fire, with a pole
SS n 0 t l| ang the billy from. The tripod
answered the same purpose. Another method
was to put two logs closely together, so that the
rnnml ? s * and oq them—which left very little
room for the fire. Some used a long pole resting
£ a *> rk > w’th the small end over the fire, and
the butt weighted on the ground. In using this
the traveller had to be careful to keep his blaze
down, or the pole would burn through.
J\o such clumsy, time-wasting methods are em-
ployed to-day— except at fixed camps, where the
cross ’P ie . ce are Put up, and a chain or
looped wire, and hooks hung therefrom. The
traveller places two small sticks on the ground
vnth the ends in the fire, or rakes out a few coals,
and stands the billy on them, close to the fire. He
t b ' ,dd a Are round it, or jam it against the
wood. The new-chum does that, and his billy has
a bright, shiny glow. That is caused by hot
vapory smoke, the result of leaving insufficient
air-space. One notices, too, that the old hand
min r!fi bl Iy f° E' e , b n m ' whiie the inexperienced
man often puts his billy to the fire only partially
filled and consequently the rim, being unpro-
tected, is very soon burnt off. A half-filled billy
should never be placed against a fire, but stood or
hung over it. The old hand, again, lifts his quart
from the fire and can carry it a long distance, with
two sticks thrust crosswise through the handle so
that the ends grip the sides like a pair of tongs.
kk ° ks simple ; but it requires practice.
Billy stories are countless. Here are two •—An
old whaler was camped on the Severn River
hvmg on fish. He had only one billy. He first
made his tea, in it, which he poured into a panni-
kin then boiled his fish in it. He also had a small
block of wood the same size as the billy, on which
he sat and smoked. One evening at dusk he came
up from the river with a tomahawk in his hand
and making for what he took to be the block
stuck the tommy into it. A yell of dismay
escaped the old fellow when he found he had
driven it through the bottom of his billy. Yet
with a piece of calico through the gap, and the
edges battered down, he used it for months after.
A • kn ® w found a rusty billy, half-
embedded m mud, at the edge of a waterhole. It
was full of water, and on forcing the lid off, he
round a fish, about a pound weight, scurrying
around m it. It was shaped like a boomerang
and had undoubtedly got in through a small aper-
ture in the lid when very young. That billy, pro-
bably, performed its last duty when it boiled its
life-long prisoner.
Among some travellers billy-boiling is a medium
of gambling. The man of experience, looking
over an array of well-used billies, will lav
odds on one to boil first. Of course, some
are specially adapted for quick boiling, whilst
others are naturally slow.” A man with a quick
boiler is always ready to back it against any other.
He understands it, and can judge its boiling time
to within a few seconds. An old billy will boil
quicker than a new one. The water is also worth
considering. River water will boil quicker than
ram water, stagnant water quicker than running
water; whilst water that has once been boiled
and cooled will boil again quicker than any other
Yet, there is many a tedious wait for the billy
to boil, rejoicing of hungry ones when it
wi 1 ?* 8 tq. bubbl ®- Tbe old diggers on Ballarat
“ 0h ’ what would you
do if the billy boiled over ? ” when it was time to
make the tea. And what legends are wrapped
around the billy! Yarns are always being told
and bush songs are always being sung around a
million camp-fires while the billy boils.
N.S.W.
EDWARD S. SORENSON.
“The deceased fell down dead in a fit yester-
day morning and failed to recover. A medical
examination proved that life was extinct.”—
N.S.W. country paper.
“ Hermes ” supplies a thrilling item :
if k a f‘n”v, d wok ® U P the ofcher morning and found that
a/fiT a P hlnese \ eper of lts own at Palmerston South.
As they have no lazarette there, he is penned up in his
own district, and carefully supplied with almost every-
M 3 n£l»L W f antS f tO . him trying to break loose.
Maoriland treats all lepers with a very groggy kind of
respect. When writer was booking-clerk at Milton rail-
way station, years ago, a Chinaman presented his chest
at the window and said: “Me want go Duny-diri fist-
mfiAi n ° °°w 1 Passed out the ticket, and he
qinetly pocketed it and walked off without offering any
? a ?"\ J n u he !l outs , ide ana reached for him, hut he
held up a ghastly and swollen chin, and, smiling dread-
!^ J V IlUrmU - e< ?’ ‘l Me le P a ! ” 1 let him h ave the ticket,
“ d he, got into the train. When the guard went
through he found John smoking and expectorating
all over the cushions of the ear, which was labelled
Jf^ les onl y- He ordered him out, but John
said he was quite comfortable, and the guard seized him
by the ear to lead him out, when the organ came away.
,? fV ard , stared, thunderstricken, and the Chinaman
yelled lustily : “ Whaffor ? Me lepa, an’ by Cli’ you lepa
f n ° w ;, to ° ! . Tl ?e guard "turned, and fled like a kangaroo
for the engine, holding his hand in front of him When
he arrived he washed the hand with hot water and soap,
squirted tobacco juice over it as a microbe-destroyer and
took other eiaborate precautions to prevent infection,
Twl et J °, h , n reSt v n peace tiH they got to Duny-din.
ihere a reckless policeman threw a waterproof over John
and, wrapping him up in it, carried him bodily to a place
specially prepared for him. The carriage upholstery was
removed with pincers and tongs to be burnt.


3
"THESE ARE
V? .
A±L* BILIOUS,
&'NERVOUS
DISORDERS
(55
8
T
H
£
G
U
I
rt
S'
A
A
£
§
ft
I^4
o
THE MEDICINE
|hqf the>j
BwoRLD (
a
:
Price,
fdh
fdh
The Universal Remedy for Acidity oi the Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
dinnefordSl
MAGNESIA,
wm
k
- '
Sold Throughout the W orid.
N.B-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA-
fd
£8 103.
Tel., 2710 Redfern
This Special No. 3 Sulky
with Wing Boards well
adapted for country roads
and hard usage. Will give
univeral satisfaction.
Pittman’s Commonwealth
Steam Coach Works
176 and 178 Morehead St., Redfern.
THE THREE CAUSES:
BECAUSE Pittman’s Vehicles are articles of real worth
and true merit.
BECAUSE they are always in ready demand.
BECAUSE when their superior qualities have once been
demonstrated, you will have no other
than Pittman’s Vehicles.
HP* Send for Illustrated Catalogue and Price List.
Full Description & Prices of Vehicles free on application
4»*Ti T9 **
IRISH MOSS
FOR
-The besf remedy-
' INFLUENZA,
COUGHS,
Ask for Banning ton’s COLD |roncHITIS.
and seethatyouget it, ASTHMA,
' THE
FREEMAN & WALLACE
This is the only Medical
Institute in Australia with
a bona fide capital that
stands behind guarantees
as evidence of faithful per-
formance of all contracts.
apd
SCirgical IpStitCite—
IN AN AGE which is so remarkable for its progress in all departments of Art, Philosophy, Manufactureaiid
Science it is surprising to find the practice of Medicine so deplorably in the rear, while thousands
of practitioners in the healing art prefer to remain in the conventional groove of their hthics which
and Wallace Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute consulting staff rise superior toi the fi^ se °f eth ®
tyrannically bind the medical profession, and announce to the publicthat streets Svdnev
tinue to be consulted by the afflicted at their old address. Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
*
M&&-.
EXPERTS FREEMAN AND WALLACE ,'
The Specialists who conduct the largest practice in Australasia.
CDCAIAI MATIPE No one should hesitate to consult us, as consultations either by win
dPCbIAL NUI lUt. person are given FREE OF CHARGE, and Strictest Privacy is always assured.
OUR COMMONWEALTH POCKET DIARY.
Every Farmer, Miner, Mariner, Station-hand, Book-keeper, and other Toilers should send for a copy of this
Useful Memorandum Book. POST FREE ON APPLICATION—ALL COLONIES.
400-PAGE MEDICAL WORK (Illustrated, containing 80 Engravings, Many Useful Prescriptions,
Hints on Sick Room, Accidents and Emergency) Price 6d (POST FREE) ON APPLICATION.
Heart, Kidney, Liver Affections.
Nerve and Brain Complications.
Gravel, Bladder and
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Epilepsy, Gout.
Rupture and Piles Cured without
Blood
’ - , • - ' * * IS -
• * , ■
tt HEAITH W-kUtt
■
spsiliii
Mm®
iIfE.IV UfE A ni/EDTICE T Because Advertising is the legitimate means vouchsafed to enlighten people,
WHY WC fill* Ell I lOE ■ to acquaint each other with their avocations and wants. If a man has a
Speciality arid has devoted years of his life and expended large sums of money in studying that Speciality and in
purchasing the necessary appliances, etc., for treating certain diseases, it would be absurd for him not to announce
the fact, and disseminate the knowledge universally, We have no apology to offer for informing the world through
this advertisement and otherwise of the means of relief we can afford to sufferers who need our help. Therefore,
however opposed to your own preconceived ideas and to those of your medical advisers, our. method of treatment
uvet vi'mvow your own preoonceiv * . . v —,
mav be the fact still remains that it is successful, and this is verified by the thousands of testimonials received from
- • We make no secret of our mode of practice. We only claim to have utilised in a common-sense
Grateful patients. We make no secret of our mode of practice, we only claim to nave mansea in a common-sense
wav the result of scientific research and long experience. If you listen to the counsel of your sceptical friends and
iealous physician you may omit consulting us, but remember if you allow the disease to run riot in your system, you
are guilty of culpable neglect, and are alone responsible for your future pitiful condition.
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration by Government
Medical Boards cf New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, Great Britain
and America Open to Inspection by Dr. Wallace, our Physician-in-Chie£
Late Consulting Staff, Homeopathic Hospital,
Late Medical Staff, British Army.
Melbourne.
HOME TREATMENT.
If you live out of town and cannot visit us, this need not deprive
you of the benefits of our wonderful treatment, because in the new
UlAotvA Morliodl homo t.roaf.monh is nmvirloH for Hooroolir n
svstem of combining medicine and electricity a complete Electro-Medical home treatment is providedfor. Scarcely a
dav passes that Che news does not reach us of some wonderful home cure of a person living so far away that a per-
sonal visit could not be made. Write a plain statement of your condition, explaining your feelings and symptoms as
clearlv as possible, and from it we will be able to accurately diagnose your case.' It only costs you the trouble of
writing and twopence postage to get the opinion and advice of Australia’s Leading Specialists.
DO NOT BE DRUGGED TO DEATH BY QUACKS
When there are so many quacks and impudent pretenders in the field of Medicine, who arrogate to themselves
the monstrosity of giving counsel and advice in matters of which they are profoundly ignorant, and who have
rmtbine- to recommend them but their audacity, sufferers cannot be too careful whom they consult. Although
fiber vof choice belongs to all, discrimination Is necessary. In consulting THE FREEMAN AND WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAL AND SURGICAL INSTITUTE patients may feel assured that they shall receive the advice
of those fitted by superior skill and education, the result of special study. Our reputation and unparalleled
success as Specialists entitle us to your confidence.
Medicines forwarded to all parts of the World
FREE FROM OBSERVATION.
-CONTENTS
Elizabeth aJißatbtirstSts, Sydney
Cor.
A
For privacy Patients may address “ Messrs. F. & W.,” 225 and 227 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
0 QUEENSLANDERS are hereby informed that a person advertising as Dr. Wallace
in Brisbane is in no way connected with the Institute.


Water! Water! We’re Withering!
|*/_ U/«f Ar > | THIS IS THE APPEAL OF THE FLOWERS
WG warn Waier t THIS DRY weather.
. Can you let it go unheeded when a ....
GARDEN HOSE a, ,
10d. a month will pay for the water, -ms
OUR PRICE list:
fljnch x 3 Ply Rubber Hose, 235, 255, 30s, 365, 42s per Coil of 50 feet.
I inch Cotton-covered Hose, 20s, 22s Gd, 255. per Coil of 50 feet.
Gem Controlling Nozzle (fitted) 2s; Ball Nozzle Sprinklers (takes same
coupling), Is 6d. Reels, Unions, and all Fittings.
PERDRIAU and COMPANY,
(Between Hunter & Bond Streets) 270 COOrge SydllQy
60
TEARS DTEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. c. ZEZLZDZEiIIDGKE] & CO.,
DYEES & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, feTBUET
(opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
fPHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
J-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
!asi fX
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
an mn H
- • *
mmm
HffiKfces
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
For all Services kept in Stock.
Send, for Catalogue.
IRRIGATING
PLANTS
$
OUR
SPECIALITY
BENNIE, TEARE & CO.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Perth, Coolgardie.
By OIL, STEAM, GAS, ELECTRICITY
in
1
TANGYES
Stocks in all the States.
I’S
ANTISEPTIC
NEWMAN’S
in King St.
THROAT PASTILLES.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL-COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST- SUPPER.
KEMP S PATENT SHEEP BRANDING LIQUID
Is now being used by hundreds of woolgrowers, amongst them some of the largest squatters in Australia,
IT WILL 3)0 EVERYTHING THAT IS CLAIMED EOR IT.
It will stay on the sheep’s back as long: as required. It will NOT injure the wool. It will dissolve out under
the ordinary scouring: process.
FEETOD.
M A.NTJ E ACTURERS ANI> S(XLE AGENTS I
CXIMDE * CO.. OIECIOORDE.
BLACK, BED, and BLUE (in 8-gallon Cases)—
PRICE IN MELBOURNE
„ SYDNEY (E. Rich & Co. Ltd.)
„ BRISBANE (E. Rich & Co. Ltd.)
„ HOBART (Wm. Crosby & Co.)
3/0 per Gallon.
3/0 „
3/0 it
4/3
Ottumwa Winding Engine
Catalogues Free on Application.
Manufacturers and Importers
OF ALL KINDS OF
INING MACHINERY,
STEAM ENGINES
AND
BOILERS.
e ° c 5
©/?
o©
**e
V r N.
LAUNDRY
AND
WOOD-WORKING
MACHINERY,
ENGINEERS’ FITTINGS,
MINE and MILL SUPPLIES.
H. P. CWEC«RV*UO.
General Machinery Merchants,
Sydney Melbourne.
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
Blake Steam Pump.
Best Pump in the Market for
Boiler Feeding. Irrigating,
Mining,
Fire and Marine Purposes.
SINGLE AND DUPLEX.
ALL SIZES IN STOCK.
Send for Particulars and Prices.
FALIERE’S PNOSPNATINE
pHospwmmi
FAJJERES
The Only
Food
containing
Phosphate
of Lime,
For INFANTS and
INVALIDS.
AN ESSENTIAL -REQUISITE IN THIS COUNTRY.
THE MICA LUBRICANT CO., SOUTH SHIELDS, ENG.
Lubricants and Packings for all purposes. Patent Mica Grease^saves. 00£ \n cost
Lubricants and Packings for all purposes. Patent Mica ure.as d (° ad 25 ;y lighter. They do
bearings perfectly cool. Patent Mica Packings last twice f ’ el e Ctro . plat e.
not score the rods, but put a mica surface on them, similar in appearance to electro P t
_ „ ~ r- di/it V Depot, HI Clarence-st., Sydney, N.S.W
liouytvtjor Australasia: R. A. H ERVtY. 1
JUST
PUBLISHED f
The Bulletin Story Book
Price, 4s. 6d„ direct from the Publishers.
47
sz:
tP
OLD
RKS
SUNB
INg
*■*l
CHA
<s>
'v
Ic. C
&Nr
H
Y
r, etors ,
