

McE WAN’S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY. IRROY’S CHAMPAGNE
Absolutely
Pure,
voooj sAjnqpej
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
285 L
Mining
g. wa!tbOlkts SZ, CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Bill cl Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ a.\d GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW amp SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
ll u
m
Over 2700 Hydro-Extractors Sold and at work
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising Yankee Rubber Baby, can be carried in vest
pocket and blown out to life-size (causes roars of
laughter), Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Casket, Book of
Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Coin and Card
Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard Fish (gives
the definition of your character), The Mafeking Grab (or
nerve-strengthener), and, last of all, that side-splitting
Look and Laugh Glass, Instructions enclosed.
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralia Free on receipt of 2s. fid.
Box 3, G. P. 0., Havmarket.
11. L. HUTCHINSON,
XNEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
710 George-street, SYDNEY.
.
-o
ĥ
Those
suffering
from weak
and sore eyes,
and blight, should
•‘- n ii ir
SIN6LETONS OINTMENT
Never Fails, Restores Eyelashes.
- ALL CHEMISTS.
GIBSON. BATTLE & C°
SYDNEY.
Pitt Street,
SOLE FOR BROADBENT’S
DI R ECT
STEAM DRIVEN
HYDRO-EXTRACTORS,
These machines have been successfully introduced throughout the Australasian colonies for Drying Wool, Laundned Doods, Sugar
Salt, Chemicals, the Production of Meat Extract, etc. All sizes in stock or arriving. SPARE PARTS STOCKED. Send to,
Testimonials arid full particulars.
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831.
WHISKY.
HELIDON SPA.
A PERFECT TABLE WATER.
TOOTH <& CO. Ltc3.., Agen ts, Sydney.
-11
I Mi
ħ
HOBAMT.
-
Ijadley’s Orient Hotel.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.
CITY HOTEL
(First Grade).
J. A. TURNER - - Proprietor.
&
y - L*Bf
Dr. J. W. GIBBS’
. . Electric Massage Rollers .
For use on Face and Body.
For NERVOUS HEADACHES,
NEURALGIA and RHEUMATISM
—a specific. Removes Wrinkles.
Gold, 21/- Silver, 16/-
Post Free. Pamphlets Free.
AMERICAN AGENCY COMPANY,
Box 440, G.P.0.,
Melbourne.
FOLD’S
H.M. the King’s Jury of Experts at
the London Exhibition pronounced
Penfold’.s Wines “By far and away
the best seen from Australia and
awarded them highest honors.
WINES
Gold Medal Paris.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
PRICES PER FOOT OF SINGLE AND DOUBLE
BELTING :
2 2{ 3 3| 1 5 6 8 10 12 inch.
-/7 -/9 —/10J 1/- 1/2 1/6 1/11 2 8 3/4 4/-
.1/2 1/4 1/7 1/10 2/2 211 3/5 4/5 5/7 6/9
Agents in every State.
Made by
J. C. LUOOWICI & SON, LTD.,
13/7 York-street, SYDNEY.
IN order to introduce cur Gold W ire Jewellery
to the Australian public we have decided to
offer one of the greatest bargans ever seen in the
iewellery trade—*«., the aboVe handsome Brooch
any name or three initials) made of extra quality
o o t cold-tilled wire, with heart pendant ; guaran-
teed'the same quality a> the brooch advertised,
complete. Sent post-free >n receipt of P. 0.0. or
M O for ss. in round wire or sq. twisted wire. 15ct
gold filled Bs. 6d. Illustrated catalogues sent free’
SIMS and ELRICK, Manufacturing Jewellers.
Our only address—
COLE’S BOOK ARCADE, MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA.
FACILE PRINCEPS.
SEMPER IDEM.
h
ĥ
MENTHOLINE is the only Sure Cure for Throat and Chest Diseases (Coughs, Quinsy, Influenza,
Catarrh, Asthma, Bronchitis, Pneumonia, etc.) For Neuralgia, Headache, Lumbago, and
various pains and aches of the body, Mentholine stands unrivalled. Large bottles, 2/6 ; quarter-
size bottles, 1/-, posted to any part of Australia,. Sample bottles sent free all over the Common-
wealth on receipt of one penny stamp to EOKIJRSLEY & SONS, 214 Queen-street, Melbourne.
PROOF
USE
Head Office:
BLICH ST., SYDN
m
■
Pronounced by Highest Authorities to be
THE PERFEOTSON OF BRANDY
And Equa! in Quality to the Finest Cognac.
ħ
Ik
SPOONERS
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and la.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops , Saddlers, etc.
h
ĥ
A NICE PRESENT.
The New Combination PIN-
CUSHION, THIMBLE & REEL
HOLDER, nickel plated, plush
top. Clamps on to any table
by means of a spring. Price,
only 2s. ; post free.
Star Novelty Company,
229-231 Collins-st.,
Melbourne.
The Bulletin
Yol 23. 1103
[Saturday, May 31, 1902.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper


* “ Tommy Cornstalk,” by J. H. M. Abbott (from
George Robertson & Co., Sydney).
THF I fITFRT RnnKQ at '
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Fletcher, Bonds of Steel, 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Hyne (Cutcliffe) Mr. Horroek’s Purser, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d
Crowest, Story of Music, Is, p. 3d.
Abbott (J. H. M.) Tommy Cornstalk, 6s, p. 7d.
Appleton, Rash Conclusions, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Hocking (Silas), To Pay the Price, 3s 6d p. 6d.
Hocking (Silas), Fate of Endilloe, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Causton, Comedy of a Suburban Chapel, 2s 6d& 3s 6d D6d
Barr (Robert) Victors, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d
Avebury, Short History of Coins, 2s, p. 4d.
McCutcheon, Graustark, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d
Girl of the Multitude, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Hocking (Silas) Gripped, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Hissler, Hydro-Metallurgy of Copper, 15s, p. Is 2d.
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King Sfc.) & at Melbourne,
Adelaide, Brisbane & London
Now Pubiished.
Busljman and Buccaneer:
HARRY MORANT:
HIS 'VENTURES and VERSES.
By Frank Renar.
PRICE - - ONE SHILLING.
A Story of the Life and Unhappy End of
“The Breaker’’—with his Verses and
Correspondence : Copiously Illustrated.
It gives the first authentic account of the operations
of the Bushveldt Carbineers, and of the Court-
Martial on Movant and others.
H Buman Document of Intense Interest!
OF ALL BOOKSELLERS:
Wholesale from EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO., Ltd.,
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE.
NOW IN THE PRESS.-*®
“IN THE BUSH SHADE,”
by Lambert Thompson, Author of “ Musings in Melody.’"
Inscribed to Sir Edwin Arnold, K.0.1.E., 0.5.1. (by
consent): A collection of nature poems and verse
descriptions of Australian Scenery, reprinted from the
Tasmanian Mail, Queenslander , IF eekly Courier, Daily
Telegraph (Launceston), Examiner, Australian Journal,
Ballarat Star, and other Papers. The first edition will
consist of 500 copies, numbered.
Robt. A. Thompson & Co., Publishers, Melb., Sydney, &c.
The Bulletin publications.
Forwarded to any address in return for postal
notes, stamps, or P. 0.0. for prices stated.
Send Id. stamp for The Bulletin Book Circular
No. V.
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300
pages; price, 4s. 6d.; postage, 6d.
The Bulletin Keciter:
By Eighty Bulletin Bards. With illus-
trations by “Hop.” N. Lindsay, A. J.
Fischer, F. Leist, D. H. Souter, and H.
McCrae. In handsoiLe cloth, decorated ;
price, os. ; postage, 4d.
Castro’s Last Sacrament and Other
Stories:
By Albert Dorrington (“ Alba Dorion ”).
A handsome volume of 350 pages, bound in
cloth, decorated ; price 4s, Gd. ; postage, 7d.
On Our Selection:
By A. H. Davis (“Steele Rudd”). New
Issue. With about eighty illustrations by
Mahony, Lambert, Vincent, Leist, Fisher
and Fullwood ; 6s. ; postage, Bd. *** “The
jolliest book yet printed in Australia.”
Fair Girds and Gray Hoi'ses, with Other
Verses:
By Will H. Ogilvie. New Issue. Blue
cloth, blue edges, with portrait; price, ss. ;
postage, sd. %* A charming presentation
volume.
The Ways of Many Waters:
By E. J. Brady. Buckram, gilt top; price,
55.; postage, 3d. *** Australia’s best book
of sea and, sailor verse.
Maoriland and Other Verses:
By Arthur H. Adams. Buckram, gilt
top ; price, ss. ; postage, 3d. V The best
, book of Maoriland verse yet published.
The Last of Six:
Tales of the Austral Tropics. By Ernest
Favenc. Paper covers, 141 pp.; price, 6d.;
postage, 2d.
A Rose of Regret:
Verses by James Hebblethwaite ; being
No. II of The Bulletin Booklets.
Enveloped, Is. 6d. ; postage, Id.
The Circling Hearths :
By Roderic Quinn. No. 11l of The
Bulletin Booklets, Enveloped, Is. Gd, ;
postage. Id.
Dreams in Flower:
By Louise Mack. No. IV of The Bulle-
tin Booklets.. Enveloped, 2s. 6d. ;
postage, 2d. -
The West Wind:
By Hubert Church ; being No. V of
The Bulletin Booklets ; price 2s; 6d. ;
postage, 2d.
Works by Francis Adams:
(Publishers’ Remainders, offered as Second-Hand.)
Poetical Works, complete edition, printed
m Brisbane by Muir & Morcom. Paper
covers; 4to. Only a, few copies remain.
Price, ss. ; postage, 4d.
Australian Essays, printed in Melbourne
by Wm. Inglis & Co. Paper covers, Bvo.
Only a few copies remain. Price, 2s. 6d. ;
postage, 3d.
Songs of the Army of the Night, printed
in Sydney. Boards, Bvo. Only a few copies
remain. Price, 2s. 6d. ; postage, 3d.
At Dawn and Dusk:
By V. J. Daley. In handsome cloth,
with portrait. Price 55.; postage, 4d.
Also on Sale:
Peace or War in South Africa:
By A. M. S. Methuen ; price 6d. ; postage,
2d. *** The best short account of the origin
and development of the war in Africa.
THE BULLETIN BOOKS.
Sole Distributing Agents :
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
Special Wholesale Agents :
New South Wales .. Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd
Queensland .. .. Edwards, Dunlop & Co.’ Ltd"
Victoria .. .. George Robertson Proprietary.
Tasmania George Robertson Proprietary
South Australia .. E. S. Wioo & Son.
Westralia .. .. E. S. Wigg & Son.
Auckland and district Wildman, Lyell, & Arey.
Others to be appointed.
Sold by All Leading Booksellers.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
214 George-st., Sydney, Australia.
tile THROAT, tlie
-OI cm.
. - THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs ! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
h
A. The Lahy.nx, or organ of
voice.
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
C- The Bronchial Tubes of a
D. A lobe of one of the lunns.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG,
and
Invaluable fo
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
. . Contain NO cocaine or other poisonous dnuj
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, in Tins, 1s 6d; from the Proprietor, G. HUDSON Chemist I
free on receipt of stamps. Sydney Depot: 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE, and FEL'Dj
Melbourne, Agents. i
.f • ;ki *
swich, Queensland—post
1 GRIM WADE & CO.,
THE RED PAGE
A Cornstalk’s Gleanings
01 ( all the Australian contributions to t
literature of the Boer war there is no
more characteristically Australian, no
more interesting than “ Tommy Cor:
stalk, by J. H. M. Abbott, corporal of the Fir
Australian Horse. The writer has cast aside a
the trammels of conventional record, all details o
how he got to the war, what troops he marchec
with, what battles he fought in, and plunges
once into a series of impressionist pictures o
wnat struck him most vividly. r i?h6rG is i
attempt at “tine-writing,” but there is
air of realism and a flavor of fine, rac
humor in his pages. Further, one gets the im
pression that the writer wants to be honest
what he says; the deep disappointment at no
being able to class the Boer as a dirty, treachero
pig is obvious ; the fear of being classed as pr
Boer in an intolerant land evident. Still, M
Abbott tells what, truth he sees ; and, taking in
account the first deep prejudice in his mine
against the Boers, and the strong temptation
look for evil rather than for good in them (anc
what one looks for one sees), his testimony is o
great value in'judging the character of .the litt
cocky people whom we’ve been helping to evi
from their farms in S’Africa.
Bet Mr. Abbott tell first his frame of mind
going to the war
“Fetch us Kruger’s scalp,” said the crowd that lin
the streets, as we struggled hotly to Woolloomo
100 Bay on a sweating afternoon in January. “ Don
take any notice of white flag‘3 ; play ’em at their owr
game ; wipe’em out; give ’em hell!’’—they cried as
led our horses up the gangway. Good-bye, boys
screeched an excited lady on the wharf; “put the
blanky lights out! ”
There had been Stormberg, and Magersfontein, anc
Golenso—and Spion Kop was to come. The facile pen
the paragraphist had described the incidents of treache
ous ambush. The tame leader-writers of the nios
respectable morning paper in the world had, with a
deference to possible varieties of opinion—which the
would not for all the riches of Mount Morgan unwitting
offend—given it as their unalterable dictum that th
Boer was an excrescence upon the face of all humanit
that he should, without doubt, be made to feel th
iron hand, that this war was none of your commo:
bloody, uninviting struggles, but a holy crusade agains
infamous wrong, and injusl.ice, and unreasonable tvramn
Most touchingly symbolical of its righteous approval
our going, the enthusiastic crowd had given us to drin
of raw whisky as we shoved, and pushed, and pante.
thirstily through it. And doubtful damsels, to whom on
never before had attributed any of the broad feeling tha
leads to publicly expressed emotion, clung weepingl
about our uecks, and kissed us lovingly, as thev implorec
us to go forth and battle for what was right, and gooc
and noble, against oppressive wrong, and wretohec
heartless, cruelty.
And so, by the time we were up the shrouds, and th
crowd was a mere blur along the shore, expressive onl
by points of waving white and a murmuring roar tha
lost itself across the widening waters, we really did fee
enthusiastic admiration for ourselves. We honestly in:
derstood ourselves to be, as it were, knight-errants of n
mean order, going forth to wrest the fair maiden o
African freedom from the vile clutches of the Boe
dragon.
„And we sailed away knowing all about everything
There was no possibility of our having made any mistake
as to the Boer. We had him at our finger-ends. He was
a low liar, a cunning, unscrupulous cheat, an oppressor o
the unfortunate philanthropists who had come to make
his country rich.
The Uitlander, for whom we were going to do battle
was indeed a long-suffering, overburdened martyr
Purely for philanthropy he had sought to do the Trans
vaal a good turn. He had toiled, with some success, to
wrest the golden treasure of the unwilling Rand from its
hidden depths. He had made a bankrupt State into
rich one. He was the kind of man who shoved the work
along. And they wouldn’t give him a vote. So we were
going to get it for him. The Boer had been weighed in
the balance and found wanting. We would adjust the
scale.
And his first conclusions (he sees a train-load o
Boer prisoners for the first time).
We looked upon an excursion train-load of
“cockies,” or ordinary “bush-hands” going down en
masse with their coats off, to “ blue their cheques ’’ . .
Boers! These men Boers ? Oh, no ; thev could not" be
surely ! Where were the brutal faces of the English illus-
trated papers'? .... These quiet, orderly, rather good
humored people !
And afterwards, from a long experience of the
Boer as fighter, prisoner, citizen, Mr. Abbott
says
We had come to respect him, in the mass, as a very
gallant man, and to envy in him the possession of hardy
virtues such as we had never expected to find, and which
we would not mind feeling quite sure that we possessed
ourselves.
And, as to the future, Mr. Abbott’s opinion:
For years and years the sad women of those countries
will loathe and detest all things English more bitterly
than before. Their hatred df us already dates back from
before the Great Trek, from before the hanging of
Slacliter’s Nek, and comes.across the war of “81. Now it
will have all the hard misery of this war to add to its
rankling bitterness. There is a difficult task before the
coming rulers of the two late Republics. And so, when
we hear that the Boers have been unduly lax in honour-
able dealings with our kinsfolk, we must remember how
they regard them. What an invasion and conquering of
our country by Chinese would mean to us, the invasion
and taking of theirs by the English means to them.
We have emphasised this section of the book—
the last—because it is most important to Aus-
tralians. From a literary point of view, the rest
of the work is equally good—as breezy and fresh
in style, as frank and knowledgeable in comment.
The author’s pictures of the veldt:
Here, in this naked Africa, everything is stiller than
the grave at night.
of the march, of the bivouac, of sentry duty, show
a capacity for seeing things. Almost always the
actual phrase used might be a little bit improved
in wording, but there is, on the other hand,
almost always that actual literary gift of insight
to atone for merely verbal lapses. Here’s a pen-
picture, vigorously drawn of Roberts
Of all the staff he was the freshest and. most active-
looking by a very great deal. It was not hard to realise
that, since the army had left the camp at Osfontein, it
had been a time of great strain and long hours for all of
them. The tired, weary figures sitting their horses
stiffly, spoke eloquently enough of the state of being of
the Staff as a whole. But the little man at their head
rode as a “flash” shearer who has just “rung out” a
shed—alert, springy, vigorous and very fit. Excuse the
comiiarison, you who know flash shearers. It merely
refers to deportment.
In course of conversation with an engine-driver on the
railway between Kroonstad and the Transvaal capital, the
manner of the two men, Roberts and Kitchener, was
strikingly exemplified by his words.
“ t)h, yes,” he said. “ Bobs an’ Kitchener comes along
sometimes. My colonial, y* oughter see the difference at
the stations, though ! W’en Bob’s train pulls up, he gets
out an strolls along the platform, an’ everybody knocks
oft work so’s to come up an’ h ive a '.ook at him. ' He jes’
walks about among the crowd, talkin’ to ’em like me an*
you would. Ask ’em hoiv they’re gettin’ on for rations, an’
so on. Course, he’s never familiar, or anything like that
y can always see he’s Boss —and if he notices anything
wrong he lets ’em know, quick an' lively—but he seems to
be more of a friend to everybody than anything else.
But wen “Herbert” steps out of his carriage there’s
hardly a soul to be seen on the platform—they’re all away
diggin trenches, or mountin’ guns, or scoutin’ rounl the
country any blessed thing, 1 so long as he can see ’em
wo non . Lord help ’em if they ain’t ! W’y, I b’lieve if
Kitchener was to he given command of Heaven’s gates
he d jes as soon gaol Peter, ’spite of all his long service,
supposin’ he caught him nappin’ any warm afternoon !
• book is truly well worth the read-
ing by Australians, spite of the flood of war-works.
Certain Books.
THrs is the spring season in England for
novels, and the mail brings them out in
scores to the unhappy reviewer. Of a big
batch received this week, “The Westcntes,”
by hjuiller Couch, is the best. Quiller Couch
has a manner, and weaves a pretty story in
not too many words. At the other mid of the
scale _ Blue Lilies,” by Lucas Cleeve (Fisher
Unwin), is absolute trash, full of a nasty, yet
futile, effort at “smartness.” “The Hound-of
the Has kervi lies,” by Conan Doyle (Longmans), is
on a par with Mr. Doyle’s other imaginative works
before he took to war polemics ; that is to say. it is
an interesting, workmanlike detectivestory. “The
Dark of the Mo . m,” by S. It. Crockett (Macmillan),
doesn t read as interestingly as earlier works of
this writer: either he has exhausted his vim, or
tl e taste for Scotch tales of robbery and piety is
departing. “A Bid for Empire,” by Major
Arthur Grifhths (George Bell and Sons), is a good
adventure yarn for a railway journey, and the
same may be said of “The Shoes of Fortune,” by
Neil Munro (Grant Richards). “Charlotte,” by
. B. Walford (Longmans), is a fairly bright
picture of an unpleasant phase of society, and will
probably find many women readers.
Wanted—a Better “Full Stop.”
The present full stop is so small, and often
so battered through constant use, that it
doesn’t stop you at all. Only the capital
letter that follows pulls you up. But, then
m poetry the capital letter is no guide to
the division of sentences because of the question-
able system of putting a capital at the head of
each line. One printer suggests the use of
florets of various sizes for the various degrees
of stoppage. Thus:—
In clays of yore how fortunately fared
the Minstrel* wandering on from hall to hail*
baronial court or cheered with gifts
munificent* and love* and ladies’
now.meeting on his .road an armed knight *
now resting with a pilgrim by the side
of a clear brookgj beneath an abbey’s roof
one evening sumptuously the next*
humbly in a religious
or with some merry outlaws of the wood£J
or haply shrouded in a hermit cell
But it won’t do; the marks are too obtrusive.
And how should we write them ? Still tlie stupid
little full-stop ought to be altered. Press-writers
nowadays rarely use the wretched little thing :
they rather make a x or run a ring round the dot
That perhaps gives the right hint to reformers.
What is Truth?
“ E.F.L.” writes:
_Dr. W. Stern, of Breslau, lecturing before Berlin
1 sychological Society recently, gave the results of his
experiments upon 80 students (amongst them a good
proportion of females) in regard to memory-delusions.
Ihe persons on whom the experiments were made had to
relate the facts as to certain events just conveyed to their
minds by illustrations. Considerable pains and trouble
was taken to lucidly explain the illustrations. The
persons were, in nearly all instances, unable to give a
correct version of what they had just heard and seen
Not only were substantial parts left out, but additions
and qualitative changes were made. A hare became a
cat, a walking-stick changed .into an umbrella, right into
left, a walking man was running, and so on. The per-
centage of errors increased very considerably when the
same event was related some weeks later. At last a mock
trial was instituted, where witnesses had to give evidence
on oath, the result of which was that, upon every oath
taken, there were recorded three perjuries in male, and
seven perjuries in female evidence. It was proved that
women displayed a considerably better memorv for
details than men, but were not reliable as to' the
objectiveness of evidence. The remarkable fact was
recorded that all evidence was tendered without reserva-
tion of a mistake and with positive, certainty, it was
shown that the relation of a comparatively simple storv
transmitted to a third person, underwent most astound-
ing changes.
The result of these direct experiments is valuable
in reinforcing scientific conclusions as to “ evi-
dence,” which, however, have been long almost
established as indisputable. The personal experi-
ence of every man of the world comprises some
case, if not, several, of very remarkable “honest
mistake. ’ The writer, some years ago, attended
as a reporter, a Victorian public meeting which
was of a very lively character. Between two
persons present there was a hot recrimination
which he reported as faithfully as possible. After
copy” was handed in, the editor, for reasons of
his own, interpolated a most insulting remark-as
having been made by Mr. A. concerning Mr B
The remark was certainly not made at the meet-
mg, but it was reported in that paper as having
been made. A libel-action was instituted, based
on this report, and no less than seven persons
came forward to volunteer evidence that the
remark ascribed to Mr. A. had been made by
him: they had no reasonable motive for false-
hood, and, no doubt, believed that the insult had
passed, because they had seen it reported. More
remarkable still, Mr. A. was prepared to swear
that he had made the statement attributed to
him! The action never came into Court,
and a tall and bewildering conflict of evi-
dence was thus avoided. Who is there who
cannot recall a case, if not as remarkable, at
any rate pointing the same moral—the possi-
bility of honest mistake of, .seemingly, the most
extraordinary kind? Truth, no doubt, is oc-
casionally sworn to, even in the witness-box, butthe
scientific investigation of the human mind suggests
that an up-to-date judicial system would make
a much greater allowance for error than is done
now. Trial by ordeal, trial by single combat, trial
by computation have long been condemned as bar-
barous. Will not civilisation have to discard also
the present system of trial by evidence which is,
as a rule, examined into by no scientific or reason-
able method ? Science tells us now that it is an
absolute impossibility for the average human being
to tell the whole truth about a complex set of cir-
cumstances. It would need a mind almost
omniscient, a memory almost omnipotent, an
honesty almost divine, to do that. Yet the evi-
dence of witnesses swearing to the various move-
ments of a distant busy day is freely taken in the
law-courts, and sometimes men hanged on its
strength. Then, diverging from the average mind,
there is the female mind (existing very largely in
one sex, and somewhat considerably in another)
which is forbidden, by hysteria or some other form
of emotionalism, even the capacity to dis-
tinguish between truth and falsehood in the
simplest of matters: this type of mind
can “honestly” evolve a criminal outrage or
other story which an honest (but stupid)
jury can 'afterwards hang someone on. By an.
almost infinite series of gradations the unconscious
liar merges into the conscious liar, who is more
wicked but far less harmful on the whole. Here
are the four extreme points of the compass of
witnesses: — ‘
1. The person; who by desire to be honest, and by
sound mental training is able to approximate to the
Truth in most matters (usually to be recognised by a
habit of reservation from positiveness in the witness-box)
“That is my impression,'though I am not absolutely
sure.”
2. The p.erson, with a strong desire to be honest and a
profound faith in his or her power of accurate observa-
tion, who cheerfully swears without reservation to identi-
fications, to handwritings, to dates, and so on.
3. The person with a mental kink who imagines vain
things, and believes them profoundly, and swears to them
by all the gods of creation.
4. The person who lies# deliberately with a purpose.
Between these cardinal points there are a hundred
or more minor gradations. Of these, Nos. 2 and
3 are the most dangerous enemies of Justice.
No. 4, paradoxical as it may seem, is almost more
valuable in eliciting the truth than No. 1. Never
are the facts more clearly established than when
there is an attempt to deliberately falsify them.
The problem then of the deliberate perjurer,
alluded to in The 8., 5/4/’O2, is not the only one
confronting tbdse who wish to administer even
justice. It is not even the most difficult one.
Yet Jedges are recruited most often from the ranks
of political lawyers, and political lawyers are
generally the least skilled and the most self-
confident of the prominent men of their profes-
sion. Justice certainly has bandaged her eyes
under such a system !
1
Extract from a, Nineteenth Century paper on
“Australian Literature,” by PercyF. Rowland,
of 39 Upper William-street, Sydney, N.S.W. Is
Percy’s knowledge of letters on a par with his
knowledge of horseracing ?
Until almost the end of his life he (Adam Lindsay
Gordon) retained his passion for racing, and by winning,
in 1868, three steeplechases in one day—one being tfie
world-famed Melbourne Cup—acquired a reputation as
the most brilliant rider in Australia.
J*
“Let us.be thankful that, after inventing
manufacturings and patenting the authors, the
Almighty had chips enough left to make the
critics.”
J*
Some correspondents—
Alba D. : Your remarks against tobacco sent on to King
Janies 1., of sainted memory. Pastor Fitchett is roughly
right, in as much as mo-t modern literary men take a
little tobacco for their nerves’ sake. What they did in an
age when tobacco was unknown has nothing to do with
the case : possibly they used another sedative, and
Homer indulged in some cunning drug coming out of
Egypt, such as Helen provided on the visit of Telemachus
to Sparta ?
Rebel writes : Why extol as poetry the dreary, choppily-
arranged, bizarre, and frequently far from refined prose
of that humourless literary crank—Walt Whitman ? Your
Meredith worship is another sweet insanity that many of
us marvel at, but it is much more reasonable than the
Whitman complaint. -Meredith undoubtedly has clever-
ness, but he will misapply it. Chapter after chapter in
“Richard Feverel” is like a separate essav, brilliant
enough at times, but it has nothing to do with the story.
In fact, there rarely is a story forthcoming when Mere-
dith allows his literary conceits to run away with him.
Tin reply : As to Meredith, it’s the old issue between
“good plain cooking ’’ and the ambrosial perfections of
the consummate chef. It needs a palate to appreciate the
latter. As .to Whitman, is the essential of poetry, form,
or poetic thought? If it is form, then some of the inani-
ties of Pope and the sterile sonnets of album versifiers are
the highest poetry. If it is thought—vigorous, original,
poetic thought—then Whitman is one of the world’s fine
poets.]


NTDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP
THE ORIGINAL NON-POISONOUSDIP.
M‘DOUGA.LIj BROS., O Spring Street, Sydney.
AGENTS:
N.Z. L. & M.A. Co., Ltd., Australia and New Zealand : Strachan, Cheedle & Co., Adelaide; J. B. Curran, Hobart.
SKINS
Kangaroo,
Wallaby,
Rabbit,
Opossum.
Send to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
SYDNEY,
and so obtain utmost possible prices.
Undeniable Figures prove that our PERFECT and UP-TO-DATE
system of handling Wool meets with full appreciation from WOOIgrOWGTS.
GOLDSBROUGH, MOOT & CO. Ltd.
——— hi™ sYiDnsriES'sr- ■ i— i
WOOL, GRAIN, and PRODUCE BROKERS.
During; the Season 1901-2 we offered at auction 64iQ66 bales, and sold
at auction and privately ex Catalogue 57iQ79 bales, thus firmly
establishing ourselves as the LEADING Wool Selling Brokers of Sydney on
account of COUNTRY CONSIGNORS.
We invite inspection of our popular TRUST A/c System and of the figures given above.
N.8.-Our Figures do NOT include private Sales of Uncatalogued Wool. Georoe Maiden, Manager.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMONT.
g o le Charge : 3 Per Cent, to tlxe Gi-rowera.
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge id. per lb. to the Buyers.
DEAF
NESS CURED
Deafness is incurable till the
cause is removed. Therefore Ear
Drums and other artificial aids
never cure. Nobody need be
deaf where the ELECTRICON is obtainable. Write to-day
mentioning this paper, and we will send valuable informa-
jtion FREE. Address —
|L. R. Vernon Coy., 60-64 Hunter-st., Sydney.
A
LCOHOUG EXCESS.
DRINK AND DRUG HABITS CURED at
Patient’s own home. Can be sriven secretly.
Testimonials from prominent people. Write for pamphlet
or call on
THE EUCHASY CO.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
HAVE THE
BEST.
ĥ
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE FENCE
Is built by a light, handy machine, easily operate!, which will weave
three chains of fence an hour.
The lateral Wiree are two?!, Iff* »
securely interwoven, at an, duta^e
FOR CATALOGUES AND PARTICULARS
CYCLONE ” WOVEN
WIRE PENCE CO.,
128 Franklin St., Melbourne ; 143 Sussex St., Sydney.
WONDERFUL VALUE IN CIGARS
SINGLE BOX AT WHOLESALE PRICE.
GUARANTEE: EVERY CIGAR SOUND AND IN PERFECT CONDITION-
Goods Exchanged or Money Returned-
CIGARS
delivered free of duty and charges.
ROMA QUEENS
LA PAROLA, Reliable Smoke ..
HIGH LIFE MENDOZAS
NIMROD REINA VICTORIA ..
LA SPECIAL, from Choicest Leaf
SANTIAGO LA FLOR, Fine Quality
“LEOLA,” Borneo, Mild Smoking
“ Eh RIVAL,” Borneo, Full Flavor
HEAVY WEIGHTS (P. De Mendoz )
“PERLA”BOUQUET
“EL MUNDO” (Rothschilds) ..
“MENDOZA” (Rothschilds)
“ PERLA” (Rothschilds)
“MINERVA” No. 1 MANILA .. ..
“WINDSOR LADY” (Manila Regalia) ..
“PERLA MINERVA,” MANILA, Fine Quality
FLOR DE NAVES (Havana Reina)
HENRY CLAY (Havana Couchas, Extra)
25 in box
100 in box
100 in box
100 in box
100 in box
50 in box
50 in box
50 in box
100 in box
50 in box
25 in box
25 in box
25 in box
100 in box
50 in box
25 in box
100 in box
50 in box
Post Free
N.S.W.
s. d.
9 2 per 100
10 2 per 100
13 2 per 100
13 2 per 100
13 2 per 100
14 11 per 100
14 11 per 100
14 11 per 100
16 11 per 100
18 8 per 100
20 11 per 100
25 2 per 100
25 2 per 100
15 5 per 100
18 11 per 100
24 11 per 100
28 11 per 100
35 0 per 100
Usual Retail
Price.
s. d.
12 6
14 6
20 0
20 0
20 0
25 0
25 0
25 0
28 6
30 0
32 0
32 0
32 0
25 0
28 6
32 0
34 0
45 0
Post Free
Other States.
s. d.
10 4
10 8
13 8
13 8
13 8
15 8
15 8
15 8
17 8
19 2
21 8
26 2
>6 2
6 2
) 8
'» 8
29 8
36 0
SEND FOR
OUR
LIST
OF
C.BB.
BRIAR
PIPES
#
MICK SIMMONS,
TOBACCO MERCHANT and IMPORTER,
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
ħ
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON and CO., Ltd.,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN,
SYDNB Y.
WOMEN AND
WARNER’S
SAFE CURE.
The health of women Is of supreme im-
portance. The daughter of to-day becomes
the wife of to-morrow, and it is abso-
lutely essential to the welfare of the race
that good health should be hers; good
health which brings happiness and en-
sures vigour in posterity. A woman’s
nervous system is very highly strung.
Her mechanism is far more delicate and
complex than that of a man, and there
is little to wonder at when it breaks down
under the continuous high pressure of
modern life.
Most women require some aid to enable
them to support the daily stress and
strain, and this aid is found in WARNER’S
SAFE CURE a medicine wonderfully
adapted to their delicate organisation—
which has for twenty years secured the
grateful endorsement of women in all
walks of life in all parts of the civilised
world.
Read the following Letters:
“Charlton,” George Street,
Norwood, S.A.
October 1, 1900.
Dear Sirs,— ' . ,
About seven years ago I contracted a severe
internal complaint, and was in a very critif®
state. The doctor attending me told me that if I
lived I should be a sufferer all my lifetime. His
treatment was quite useless in giving me relief.
After two or three years I got tired of paying
doctors’ fees for no benefit, and heanngof Warner’s
Safe Cure I gave it a trial. I took, in all, five
bottles and am thankful to state I am perfectly
cured ’ The medical man was genuinely surprised
at such a wonderful result. lam now as well as
it is possible to be, and give Warners Safe Cure
tVie whole credit for accomplishing what doctors
deemed impossible. Hoping that ladies, suffer-
irtr -is I did, will profit, I am writing to you now.
Mv mother considered that her life was saved by
the use of Warner’s Safe Cure in a somewhat
similar complaint. ) ANNIE HARRIS.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Ltd.
8 Carlton-street, Prahan, Vic.,
March 12, 1901,
Dear Sirs,— , _
I am pleased to report the benefit I derived
from the use of Warner’s Safe Cure. After many
years of pain and suffering from kidney and liver
complaint, I, who was accustomed to minister to
others, was brought to a bed of sickness myself.
The doctors could give me no hope of relief or
recovery, and said that I had but a short time to
live. I tried various advertised remedies, but all
failed to give me relief until I tried Warner’s Safe
Cure. From the first bottle I began to improve
in health. The pains gradually left me. I con-
tinued to take the medicine for some time, until I
was perfectly cured, and sound in body and mind.
I may state that the doctors were more than sur-
prised to see me up and about again. I have
heard of many other cases during my professional
career, which were in like manner cured by the use
of Warner’s Safe Cure.
Yours obediently,
EMMA DARVELL,
Ladies’ Nurse.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Ltd.
Broken Hill, N.S.W., October 11, 1900.
Gentlemen, —
I have great pleasure in testifying to the good
results I have obtained from the use of Warner’s
Safe Cure. For some time I was suffering great
agony with terrible pains in my side and around
my body. After trying several remedies, which
failed, I used Warner’s Safe Cure, and am happy
to state that I am now quite restored to health.
You may make this public and accept my thanks
for the good results I obtained.
(Mrs.) ELIZA BUTLER.
Messrs. H. H. Warner and Co., Ltd.
Morewell, Victoria,
|December 8, 1900.
Dear Sirs, —
I am pleased to be able to testify to the great
benefit I derived frpm the use of Warner’s Safe
Cure when suffering' from insomnia and rheumatic
pains in my body and legs. I have only used a
few bottles, and the results have been simply
marvellous. Yours truly,
(Mrs.) ISABEL FRASER.
Messrs. H. H. Warner and Co., Ltd.
Fitzroy Street, Tam worth, N.S.W.,
September 25, 1900.
Dear Sirs, — _
I owe my life principally to Warner’s Safe
Cure. I suffered for years in New Zealand from
bronchitis and lung complaint, and have been
in the District Hospital in Wellington three
different times. At last I was ordered to a warm
climate, but I still suffered much with pains in
my chest and back. One day I read a pamphlet,
and thought I would try Warner’s Safe Cure.
After I had taken the first bottle I found myself
stronger, and continued till I had used seven
bottles. I then came out to N.S.W., and am now
in perfect health. I earn my living by selling a
hair restorer of my own recipe and make, and am
walking about most of the day. lam well known
in the district, and I always recommend Warner’s
Safe Cure.
Yours thankfully, '
(Mrs.) TERESA NOLAN.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Ltd.
100 Chestnut Street, Richmond, Vie.,
Maroh 11, 1901.
For years I was a great sufferer from liver com-
plaint, which caused severe pains in my back and
sides and great mental depression. I was not able
to follow my calling. Hearing on reliable
authority of the beneficial effects of Warner’s
Safe Cure in kidney and liver complaints T gave
it a trial. From the first I derived great benefit,
and was ultimately completely oured. About
twelve years ago my husband used Warner’s Safe
Cure when suffering from weak and bleeding kid-
neys. Two bottles restored him to health and
strength.
Yours truly, JANE DAY.
34 Carrington Street, Sydney,
July 31, 1900.
Some time ago I was suffering from severe
pains in my back and kidneys, and being tired of
medical treatment, which did me no good, 1, on
the recommendation of a friend, tried Warner’s
Safe Cure. Three bottles and a half cured me,
and I have never been troubled since.
Yours obedientlv,
(Mrs.) MARY J. FIELD.
113 Edward Street, E. Brunswick, Vic.
April 30, 1901.
Dear Sirs, —
I have pleasure in giving evidence as to the
efficacy of Warner’s Safe Cure. For many years
I suffered from kidney and liver complaint. Fre-
quently I was quite prostrated and unable to _do
my household work, my whole system being
affected, especially my head. The doctor who
treated me did me no good. I was advised to try
Warner’s Safe Cure and Warner’s Safe Pills.
After taking a few bottles of the medicine I felt
quite a different woman, and am now in the en-
joyment of as good health as I ever had in my
life.
Yours truly, (Mbs.) E. NELSON.
Messrs. H. H. Warner and Co., Ltd.
“ Camrock,” Elwood Street,
North Brighton, Vic.
April 29, 1901.
Sirs, —
I have found Warner’s Safe Cure to be a most
wonderful medicine for giving health and strength
when suffering Irom that languid and tired feeling
which most women are subject to, and which
makes one unfit to attend to household duties,
•or to any other business. In my case, Warner’s
Safe Cure had an immediate and lasting beneficial
effect. I strongly recommend Warner’s Safe Cure
to any ladies who may suffer in like manner, feel-
ing sure that they, too, will derive great benefit
from taking a course of this medicine.
Yours truly, (Mrs.) E. BADE.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Ltd.
Findon, Adelaide, S. A.,
October 2, 1900.
Dear Sirs,—
Several years ago I was a continual sufferer
from kidney complaint. I was hardly ever free
from shivering attacks and severe pains in my
back and head. I was not able to go about my
duties, and was frequently confined to my bed.
Reaiding of some wonderful results brought about
by Warner’s Safe Cure, I gave it a trial. I felt
much benefit from the first bottle. After taking
half-a-dozen bottles, I was a new woman. I feel
quite sure that Warner’s Safe Cure saved my life.
Yours truly, (Mrs.) ELLEN RELF.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Ltd.
The secret of the remarkable effects of Warner’s Safe Cure is that it causes the liver and kidneys to become perfectly healthy,
these vital organs are doing their work thoroughly, all poisonous acids and other waste products of the body are removed
aturally, and such diseases as Indigestion, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Lumbago, Backache,
Sciatica, Anaemia, General Debility, Blood Disorders, Gravel and Bladder Troubles can no longer exist, as they are all caused by
the presence in the blood of these impurities.


GENERAL
ELECTRIC
COMPANY.
Capital - - - £5,250,000.
Manufactures the Highest Grade of
Electrical Machinery.
THEIR NAME IS A GUARANTEE.
Dynamos, Engines and Motors up to 250 H.P. in Stock.
Lighting and Power Plants for Immediate Delivery.
Arc and Incandescent Lamps and Supplies of all kinds.
i ; \ — " ;
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC GO.,
Electrical Engineers and Contractors,
SOLE REPRESENTATIVES.
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, Melbourne and Sydney.
Secure Coupon. Below,
IT/
jfo4—
1
&
809 a 51
MS
W
oq>n.
oq#
&o.<J
',: S 3
gSg®
S»2
vv
3^.
OQO^’JpocD^
m
w&m
sscfi
sfe
<c
a*
&5
m
SB
OoooDo^Soi
4f«
fflV
WgfflkS?
J
MBOS
€L
ab// ij \
|gjw|!§s|o
7
“Si
a>s
V-
SPECIAL OFFER
IN AUSTRALASIA
TO THOSE WHO HAVE NOT
YET TRIED
_>-KOKO.
A 4/6 Trial Bottle for 2 -
SPECIAL OFFER IN AUSTRALASIA
TO THOSE WHO HAVE
NOT YET TRIED
KOKO
f. I B
in qi ik,
31/5/02
At
mt
>,v;
Any Person forwarding this Coupon with Postal
Note for 2s. and Postage (postage for N.S.W. is Bd.and for
other States and N.JS. Is. 2d.) will receive immediately for
trial, by parcel post, under cover, prepaid, one regular
l2oz. bottle of Koko for the Hair, the price of which is
4s. 6d. provided it is ordered within 14 days from the date of
this offer. In no case will more than one bottle be sent for the use
of the same person on this Coupon, as we make the offer solely for trial,
knowing that it creates a demand when once used; and this large
bottle gives it a fair trial. We find it better tp thus practically give ;
away one bottle to make a customer than to spend large amounts in
advertising. Any person into whose hands this offer
comes may make use of it. Address all Orders with
Coupons to the KOKO-MARICOPAS CO., Ltd ,12 DEAN’S PLACE, SYDNEY. N.S.W. Orders may be sent
with this Coupon after the expiration of date, providing we are then issuing these trial Coupons, and if we; are not, the
money will be returned. This Coupon will be received at 12 Dean’s Place, Sydney, and only 2s. will be required
when postage is not necessary. . _ . . . „ . _ ...
KOKO is sold toy all Chemists and Stores at Is, 2s 6d. and 4s 6d per Bottle.
BEAUMONT MANSIONS, W. Kensington.
1 1 have chemically examined and have carefully observed the effects of ‘ Koko ’as an application for the Hair,
...... J • J Jn.Mn.nvnti'nrr s-ivAnovfi no In o mnrlrprl rl POTPP Whilp nprfpnHxr inAnnmm
valuable!'~it contauns no lead o”r cither noxious minerals. ARCHER FARR, L.R.C.P. : Ed. L.S A.
“ Late Medical Officer of Health, Lambeth ; Diploma Public Health,” &c.
INVALUABLE FOR SOALP DISEASES OF CHILDREN. SEE ANALYTICAL REPORT ABOVE.
Unrivalled for use in the dry interior. We are already in receipt of valuable testimonials from squatters and
others KOKO is a Hair Food and a most pleasant dressing, clear as crystal, and will not stain the most delicate
fabrics Ladies will find “ Koko ”of inestimable benefit in Retting the hair under control again after washing,
fabrics. S yquASK FOR “KOKO” SEE THAT YOU GET “KOKO,” AND NOT A SUBSTITUTE.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES AT 1/-, 2/6 AND 4/6. IF NOT PROCURABLE WRITE TO US.
In the Grip of La Grippe
MANY COMPLICATIONS LEFT BEHIND.
All Banished and Health Restored
by CLEMENTS TONIC.
The Case of Mr J. BARTLETT.
(BY A SYDNEY REPORTER.)
It is to the interest of this country that
all citizens should be so educated that they
may become a self-reliant and prosperous
people, and to put this idea into practical
effect a reporter was commissioned to bring
before the community a matter here dealt
with by Mr. James Bartlett, of No. 5
Patten’s Buildings, Kent-street, Sydney.
“In the time of a great epidemic,” said
Mr. Bartlett, “ when influenza was ram-
pant in Sydney, I was one of the many
who failed to elude that terrible disease.”
“Were you in danger of meeting with
serious consequences ? ” asked the writer.
“ There was every likelihood that I
would never get well again, as I was in a
frightfully low state for many months.
Matters went so badly with me that I
thought I was fighting a hopeless fight
against an overwhelming force, and as I
I was laid up for weeks, and could not do a
stroke of work for seven months, I think I
had good cause to form that opinion. I got
so thin and ghastly white that everybody
thought; I was going into consumption, be-
sides getting awfully weak into the bar-
gain. 5) The pains in my head were enough
to run away with one’s senses, being of that
heavy, depressing nature which makes the
victim feel as if there is only care and
sorrow in the world, It was not the in-
fluenza itself that I had to regret so much
as the effects it left behind, for my system
seemed so upside down that there was not
a sound part about me. My limbs were so
racked with aches that if I walked a few
yards I had to sit down and rest for the
purpose of easing the pain, but another
reason why I could not go far without
taking a spell was because I used to turn
very giddy. Through that cause I nearly
fell down several times, so
that I was almost afraid to move in case
of meeting with an accident. I wondered
what was the good of living in such misery,
for I had no energy, no pleasure, no any-
thing tha,t was worth having. For weeks
and weeks I could not get any sleep, and
there was a feeling in my eyes as if they had
swelled up. A dark haze was visible at
every turn, my sight being so bad that I
could scarcely see. and if I wanted to get
anything for myself I had to grope about
as if it were dark. I could not hear very
distinctly either, owing to a strange drum-
ming in my ears, so that I was not much
use to anybody. Indeed, I was a nuisance
to myself, and would like to have been out
of the way of the persecuting pains which
came to the small of my back and almost
paralysed me whenever I stooped. This,
together with the thickness of my urine,
told me that my kidneys were disordered,
and I was afterwards told so by the doctors
whom I was treated by, with the additional
information that my liver was also dis-
eased.”
“ Did they give you any medicine ? ”
“Of course they did, and I was never
behind hand in taking it, as my enforced
absence from work meant a great loss to
me, and I wanted to get better. But, some-
how, my condition remained stationary.
When I examined my tongue it was al-
ways furred and rough, while my mouth
had a foul taste as if I had been drinking.
Not a morsel of food could I enjoy, but I
am not one to give in till I am fairly beaten,
and I used to make myself eat; but it
would have been better if I had spared my-
self the trouble, as everything seemed to
decay in the stomach, and give rise to ex-
cessive torture in the form of windy spasms.
My chest also felt as if a piece of lead had
l»dged there for the purpose of stopping my
breath, and there was no relief to be got
till I vomited everything up again. The
weakness of my stomach was so advanced
that I could not keep my food down, so
that accounts for my feebleness and the loss
of flesh I sustained. There was also some-
thing wrong with my heart, which palpi-
tated as if I had been indulging in some ex-
cessive exercise, and with my nerves all
gone I was completely wrecked from every
point of view. A twitching pain below my
neck irritated me, but for that matter I
was always in an irritable mood, even the
sound of voices raised in laughter being
sufficient to annoy me; but I was so
desperate and despondent that I did not
know what to do with myself. In any
short stretches of sleep I got there flashed
an awful picture upon my vision, and when
I woke up I could not help thinking thai
something I dreaded would surely happen,
although I recognised that death would
have been preferable to any more suffer-
ing.”
“ Why did you not try a change of
medicine
“If I had not done so I would not be
here to-day, as I was sinking very fast after
the long and torturing captivity in the
hands of my diseases, when a fellow-work-
man prompted me to try Clements Tonic.
It was not till I carried out his advice that
the influenza was beaten, and now, after a
long and convincing experience, I am sure
there is no medicine on earth like Clements
Tonic, for after taking a couple of bottles I
was feeling a new interest in existence.
The improvement was then so marked that
I ventured to hope that a possibility still
existed that I would yet recover, and by
closely pursuing my latest course of treat-
ment my heartfelt hopes were; gratified. I
started on the right track with a slight
appetite, which came through using
Clements Tonic, and which that medicine
continued to increase. Then my liver be-
gan to work more regularly, a fact which
afforded great relief in several ways. For
instance, my headaches slackened off, and
the sickly taste left my mouth, besides hav-
ing full use of my eyes in consequence of the
disappearance of the haziness before them.
The pains in my back and shoulders were
lighter than before, and I had no trouble m
breathing, as my chest was quite free from
oppression. A feeling of vigour crept
through my system through the medium of
Clements Tonic, and I was gaining in flesh
already, which showed that my food was
digesting well. I marvelled at the rapidity
with which my vomiting troubles were
stopped, while the action of Clements Tonic
on my nervous system could not be too
highly spoken of. When .my liver and
kidneys had been relieved of all symptoms
of disease by Clements Tonic I hardly knew
how to suppress the gladness I felt, es-
pecially as no cause remained for anxiety
as to the state of my heart, which ceased
palpitating shortly after flatulence was
remedied.”
‘ ‘ And now your health is perfect, I
believe ?”
“It could not be better, for I took
Clements Tonic till I was cured outright,
and for the past three years I have scaled
over 13 stone. lam thankful to be able to
give this information, which you can pub-
lish in any way it pleases you.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, James Bartlett, of 5 Patten’s Buildings, Kent-
street, Sydney, in the State of New South Wales,
Commonwealth of Australia, do solemnly and sin-
cerely declare that I have carefully read
the annexed document, consising of four
folios, and consecutively numbered from
one to four, and that it contains and is a true and
faithful account of my illness and cure by Clements
Tonic ; and also contains my full permission to pub-
lish in any way my statements—which I give
voluntarily, without receiving any payment; and
I make this solemn declaration conscientiously be-
lieving the same to be true, and by virtue of the
provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Sydney, this
twenty-sixth day of March, one thousand nine
hundred and two, before me,
WM. P. FITZGERALD, J.P.
snwiud
KEROSENES*
BATH HEATER
h
HOT
. . WATER
INSTANTLY.
NO
PLUMBERS’
WORK
REQUIRED
IN
FIXING.
SEND
FOR
CATALOGUE
Large Stock of Bath Heaters, suitable for Gas or
Chips—from 50s. each.
BRANDT BROS., 236
PITT STREET,
. . . SYDNEY
and 422 & 424 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstke & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasites of Head or Body.
SOLD IN TWO SIZES, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B. —Insist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.


Severe Asthma
doctor ordered Scott’s Emulsion,
■gfhich cured her
Asthma is one of those miseries of life
which sometimes make it seem impossible
to longer endure the affliction of existence!
Vet the way to a cure is simple:
<* 4. Nairn Street, Abbott Road, Poplar,
“ London, England, April 10th, 1901.
.< Gentlemen,—l have great pleasure in
testifying to the great benefit my mother
received from taking Scott's Emulsion My
mother, who is a great sufferer from asthma
was taken very ill at the beginning of
January with bronchitis and congestion of
the lungs, and her doctor, who has attended
her for years, said the usual remedies would
do her no good, but recommended her to try
MRS. BEDLOW.
(From a photograph.)
Scott's Emulsion. At this time the sufferer
was at her lowest ebb, but after taking
a small bottle, the asthmatical cough
disappeared, and persevering with the
treatment, I am pleased to say that my
mother, after being confined to her bed for
nine weeks, is now as well as ever she was, a
result solely due to Scott’s Emulsion, as no
other medicine was taken. —I remain, yours
respectfully,
“(Signed) A. J. Bedlow.”
Mr. Bedlow writes that “ a small bottle of
Scott’s Emulsion caused the asthmatical
cough to disappear ” —a course of Scott’s
Emulsion completely eradicated the asthma.
It is ever the same old story, in troubles of
the throat and lungs when Scott’s Emulsion
is used: First relief, then cure.
Another point, too, which is daily made in
the correspondence which reaches us: “ the
doctor said the usual remedies would do her
no good, but recommended Soott’s Emul-
sion.” The doctor did not recommend
common cod-liver oil, the doctor did not
recommend substitutes for or imitations
of Scott’s Emulsion, they “ would do her
no good ’’—what he did recommend was
Soott’s Emulsion, and only that.
This doctor’s experience is the same as
that of countless physicians ; they oan rely
on Scott’s Emulsion; with any other thing
the result is still in doubt. There is, of
course, a solid scientific reason for this —the
scientific blending by our especial process of
pure cod-liver oil with hypophosphites of
lime and soda.
A distinguished physician who carried out
a series of comparative tests finds : “ Scott’s
Emulsion is three times as efficacious, as
the same quantity of common cod-liver oil.”
If you reflect a moment on these facts you
can only reach one conclusion : to buy
Scott’s Emulsion. And to get it see that a
picture of a man carrying a big fish is on
the wrapper. This picture is on no prepara-
tion in the world other than the genuine
Scott’s Emulsion.
You can obtain a sample of Scott’s Emulsion
by sending fourpence to Scott & Bowne, Ltd.,
483 Kent-street, Sydney, and mentioning this
paper. All chemists sell Scott’s Emulsion.
BUSHMAN WATCH
ĥ
m
ħ
m
m
\r*
I’ll Try IV
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
(apillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
The Result.
CRAIG &. AITKEN. N.S.W. Barber’s Suppl.v
House. 680-682 GEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
JNOLD’S
RNOLD’S
RNOLD’S
RNOLD’S
RNOLD’S
RNOLD’S
RNOLD’S
RNOLD’S
RNOLD’S
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
OF HOREHOUND
For Coughs and Colds.
Every Dose Effective.
Will Cure when Others Fail.
For Pain in the Side.
Best for Influenza.
In Bronchitis and Loss of Voice.
Whooping Cough and Croup.
For Children, Safe and Sure.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
At Lowest Current Rates of interest.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per cent,
of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
MMOUSJPVt
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 108,
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
BST Send for a
Catalogue.
h
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
w : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY,
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send lor a Catalogue. >
PLAYER’S
WORLD
FAMED
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES
iUJliii
is
m\\
WHOLESALE
Distributing Agents
New South Wales —
M. RUTTY & GO.,
SYDNEY.
Victoria —
J. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia—
Hart, Lawrence & Co.
Propy. Ld., Adelaide
Western Australia —
Lionel Samson & Son,
Fremantle
Queensland —
1 hos. Brown & Sons, Ld.
Brisbane
Furns, Philp & Co. Ld. f
Townsville
Tasmania —
Watchorn Bros.,
Hobart
John McKenzie & Co.,
Launceston
New Zealand —
D. Benjamin & Co.
Dunedin, Wellington
and Christchuroh.
Just
Published.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER:
Harry Morant,
His ’Ventures
and Verses.
Price 1/2
Post
Free.
V
By FRANK RBNAR.
Y
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney.
m
&
The GANZ
Electric Apparatus
are built right.
Let us give you some
evidence of their
superiority.
Oanz Direct Current Air-Propeller.
SOLE AGENTS :
The Austral Otis Engineering Co., Etd., Snnth fflelb
KARTELLS
“A genuine
old Brandy
made from
Wine.”
Medical Press.
THREE STAR
“Particularly suitable
for Medicinal
Purposes.”
1m Lancet.
BRANDY.
NSW. Carriage & Saddlery Manurf. Company
m.o.vw. & 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, btfOW**
When In town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY.' If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, L 5; 2-Spring Sulkies £7,
3-Spring Sulkies, i. 7 15s. Our Special Bent Sha t
Sulkies the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order! 5 HARNESS and S A DDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE. —Do not ba
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 P9<
cent more for your requirements.
OUll SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
ĥ
«li?ered at any Wharf or
,S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Various Verses.
Twilight.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When a heavy surf is droning,
In the twilight on the bar;
When our Mother Sea is crooning
Her quaint cradle-song afar ;
When the wild black swans are lining
Towards some still, remote lagoon,
And above the headland, shining,
Hangs a quiet, crescent moon ;
When the panoply, the splendor
Of the tropic sunset dies, —
Then my Fancy turns to tender
Dreams beneath the queenly skies.
Dear-loved Loadstone of my longing,
Fair, fond Woman of my heart!
When the twilight thoughts are thronging,
Art thou dreaming, too, apart ?
Yes, my Spirit echoes truly ;
Circling seas shall, with the tide,
Pulse on either shore of Thule,
In the Dream Beatified,
Surely as the mystic Crescent
Silvers now a garden fair,
Will the shining, white, liquescent
Light of Love burn also there !
So I mourn not that the splendor
Of the dead Day lies in pall,
When the Night her brooding, tender
Wings of fantasy lets fall.
In the dusk I’m sitting, building
Tall cloud-castles by the sea;
In the dusk my Love is gilding
Castles fair for her and me.
N.S.W.
E. J. BRADY.
Jenny.
I’ve had my fill of good and ill,
Of little gains and losses ;
As best I may, I meet each day,
Life’s minor joys and crosses.
I take the bitter with the sweet,
The light and dark together;
One day I shiver ’mid the sleet —
Next, frolic ’mid the heather.
But, while kind Heaven grants me breath,
One joy I’ll keep, I know.
My heart half danced itself to death
When Jenny jilted Joe !
Supple and sweet, from head to feet —
Her every glance entrances.
In deep surprise, ’neath her dear eyes,
I think of bygone fancies.
Her mouth is such as sun-gods long
To kiss, but can’t discover ;
Her speech is just the soul of song,
And gladdest for her lover.
I’m scant of brain, half-worn with years,
Poor as a rat —but, oh !
I took possession of the spheres
When Jenny jilted Joe !
On sorry quest —concealed, confessed—
Fools spend their trash and treasure ?
Blind dolts pursue each day anew
The grinding whirl of Pleasure.
I love at length the quiet ways
Where olden fragrance lingers;
At this world’s artificial bays
I snap uncaring fingers.
I care no whit for grief or fame.
For me —God willed it so —
The Beatific Vision came
When Jenny jilted Joe !
TAS.
FRANK MORTON.
The Green Harper.
Once again the music sweet,
With its magical refrain,
‘Through the noises of the street,
Steals into my heart and brain :
I am like a moonlit tree
Thrilled with silver melody.
Some enchantment in the room
Fills it with a radiance rare,
And a marvellous sweet bloom j
There is glamour in the air,
And my soul is drawn from me
By the wondrous melody.
Long ago, as poets tell,
Dectora, the shining Queen,
Rose and followed Forgael,
Whom men called the Harper Green ;
Followed him from Erin’s strand
Far and far to Fairyland.
Is it Forgael I hear
Making music magical ?
0 Green Harper, do not fear,
I will follow at thy call!
Over seas or mountains high
I will follow till I die.
Deep and dim in Fairyland,
Far beyond the Perilous Sea,
Lies the Wood of Broceliande
Where the haunted waters be—
Haunted lakes and singing streams,
And the high green Rath of Dreams.
There the knight whose sword was sharp,
Lancelot, in woodland dress,
Walks with Tristram of the Harp,
Lately come from Lyonesse—
Lyonesse that lies below
All the waves of long ago.
There, with beard as white as wool,
Merlin on the future dreams,
And Blanaid the Beautiful
Walks beside the singing streams
With fair Queens whose white and red
Loveliness made many dead.
Far-off is that country fair,
But the road is green and gay ;
0 Green Harper, lead me there,
Ere I take the darker way !
N.S.W.
VICTOR J. DALEY.


A BEAUTIFUL, FABRIC.
THE
I PIUS’ Velveteen.
NOTE WELL!—Each Yard of Genuine “ LOUIS ” Velveteen
bears the name (spelled L-O-IH-S and in no other
way) and is stamped with a guarantee of wear.
SIGNETI
RINGS**'/
SOLID GOLD, or set with BLOODSTONE or SARDONYX.
Estimates forwarded on application for Engraving
Crests or Monograms for Sealing Purposes.
h
9ct. from 22/6; 15ct. from
35/-; 18c. from 45/»
ĥ
9ct from 2 2,6; 15ct from
32/6 ; 18ct. from 40/-
ħ
9ctfrom ISctfrom
35/-; 18ct from 47/6
h
9ct from 22/6; 15ct from
32/6 ; 18ct from 40/-
9ct. from 25/-; Xsct. from 35/-;
18ct. from 42/6.
90 KIIVG--ST., SYDNEY.
ĥ
POST FREE.
Send for
Illustrated
Catalogue.
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
Beware
of
Cheap
Grain Spirits
Flavored and
Colored
to
Imitate
Cognac
Brandy.
THE
OLD BATTLE AXE BRAND.
ħ
h
ĥ
CAPILLA
HAIR
TONIC
The Hair Restorer of the Century.
All Chemists and Storekeepers, 2/6 per bottle, or by post
from W. RICHARDS, Proprietor, 168 Pitt-st., Sydney
N.S.W., 3/2. Obtainable in Melbourne at G. Swift’s,
Chemist, Oollins-st. ; Victorian price, 3/-. Full Course
17/2 ; Inter-State, 19/2.
EDISON PHONOGRAPH RECORDS,
One Shillling Each.
One Dozen Assorted, carefully packed and postage
paid to any address on receipt of 15s. Blanks, 9d.
Edison Electric Company,
1 ROWE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Tie that Bincf®»
Clamp Open
Clamp Pinchers.
It Never Slips
after being closed.
These three little jokers do?
the business simply, cheaply, !
strongly and permanently.
Send for our little booklet,
which will give you the
fullest information how to
construct.
i 0
By means of i,these appli-
ances old fences may be
made as good as new. In-
experienced help can build
the best fence in the world;
and that’s what you want.
This Is the ANCHOR FENCE
»F! -
Adopted as the Standard by the N.S.W. Government Railways.
fix
TESTED BY OVER TWENTY YEARS’ EXPERIENCE
Perhaps you’d like to get the benefit
of the experience of others !—of those
who’ve rolled up their sleeves and
turned every stone in their ardent
determination to know facts? White
ants, dry rot, fungi, moisture and decay
are each sure agencies of destruction.
We’ve a booklet (free for the asking)
that will tell you something of
«S>l
<s>
It’s a wood-preserving oil and walnut
stain, Well applied, two coats makes
wood —hard or soft, green, sappy, or dry
—last as long as iron when exposed to
similar conditions. That may seem like
a big contract, but we’ve got every
reasonable assurance that this claim is
well founded. Perhaps you’ve got a
cribbing horse ? Try it on his manger!
TRY IT YOURSELF ON YOUR FOWL HOUSE
J.M.Ferguson IT?,
• FremahtieW.A
II
anchor Fence Factory
Underwood St.
Sydney H.SYf


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vox,. 23.—N0. 1163.
SATURDAY, MAY 81, 1902,
Pricß 6d.
AT THE SIGN OF THE THREE BALLS.
TAKING A HAIR OF THE DOG THAT BIT HIM.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians. ,,
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBER*
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
Notice tf) Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
IVestralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Inter provincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
€l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of 1 \d. postage, the subscription
to Tins Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease of in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —IJd. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the "Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But toe
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in lilaclc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photographillustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Qotch, Ludgate Circus.
San Francisco.— L. E. Lee, Palace Hotel.
South Africa.— R. A. Thompson and Co., S Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Capetown. Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
SATURDAY, MAY 31, 1902.
State Rights and Public Wrongs.
The recent conference of State Premiers left
behind it one or two sensible suggestions of
a small kind, a few vague remarks of no im-
portance, and a loud and hostile declaration
that it is necessary to protect State Rights
to the bitter end against the encroachments of
the Federal Parliament. Most of the Premiers
seemed to be much more earnest about State
Rights than about anything else, and in
view of the fact that there has lately been
a visible effort in a number of quarters to
raise an agitation about these rights, it would
be interesting to know exactly what they
are. Also it would be interesting to know
exactly what good they are, and who is in
charge of them, and what damage will be
done if they are lost, and—supposing they
are lost—what benefit will accrue when they
are found again, and to whom it will accrue.
The term has a loud, brassy sound. The
people who mouth it so freely try to make it
appear that State Rights are in some way
associated with the sacred cause of Liberty,
and that if the country fails to defend them it
will be ground under the heavy heel of
Oppression. And the fact that all this is
bunkum, that the people are likely to be
much happier without any State Rights, and
that the sooner they lose these alleged rights
the better it will be for them, is apt to be
overlooked amid all the whirling talk about
the heel of Oppression. Australia badly
wants one paper at least to rise up and vote
for putting State Rights in the garbage-box.
* ♦ * *
The question of State versus Federal Rights
is simply a question as to how far the people
shall govern themselves through the State
Parliament, and how far they shall do it
through the Federal Parliament. As it con-
cerns the public it is a question whether
elector Smith or voter Jones or constituent
Brown, being desirous of carrying some
measure or bringing about some political
end, shall give the necessary instructions
to his State representative Jenkins
or his Federal representative Robin-
son. At present, the Federal Parliament,
elected wholly by the people, has power to
legislate on certain matters, and the State
Parliament, elected partly by the people,
has power to legislate on certain other
matters. It is alleged by the upholders of
State Rights that the Federal Legislature
shows a villainous tendency to encroach
upon the domain of the State Legislature,
and the people are urged to resist this, and
to fight desperately for the preservation of
their liberties. The average elector Smith
has it pointed out to him that, in his Federal
capacity, he is showing a coarse and brutal
inclination to tread on himself in his State
capacity ; that he is jumping on himself
with the iron-shod hoof of tyranny ; that he
is stealing his own sacred rights and privi-
leges; and that if he doesn’t rise up and
sternly resent his own undue interference
with himself he will continue encroaching on
himself, till at last he finds himself a slave
owned by himself, and realises that he is
trodden helplessly under his own feet. That
is the case as regards the elector. As
regards the State Premiers, of course, it is
different. The maintenance of State Rights in
all their sacred integrity means that the
people shall, to a great extent, go on govern-
ing themselves through the medium of State
Premiers See, Philp, Peacock, Jenkins,
Lewis, and Leake. Therefore, the main-
tenance of State Rights is good for the
billets, dignities, and salaries of these per-
sons, and for the billets and salaries of their
colleagues and followers and possible suc-
cessors. But if the people, in their Federal
capacity, encroach on themselves in their
State capacity, a time may come when there
will be nothing left for the Philp and See
and Peacock crowd to do. That will be
bad for their billets, dignities, and remuner-
ation—also for their chances of getting
titles and other gauds. Naturally, they are
shocked at the idea of Slate Rights being
encroached upon, and urge the people to rise
against themselves and defend their liberties
to the last.
* • • *
In addition to the politicians whose State
jobs and dignities may vanish if State
Rights are lost, there are others whose
interests or prejudices point the same way.
The parochialists of the old .school—the
people to whom Australia is nothing while
their own State is everything-*-the Little
Australians who are not really Australians,
but only New South Welshmen, or Vic-
torians, or Queenslanders, or Tasmanians,
are with the State Rights people heart and
soul. The more power drifts into the hands
of the Australian Parliament, and the more
things are done from an Australian point of
view, the greater chance there is of the old
borders being obliterated, and the old dis-
tinctions, hatreds, prejudices, quarrels and
slanders being lost and forgotten. If the
Federal Parliament so far encroached on State
Rights that the railway systems were con-
solidated and new lines were built irrespec-
tive of State boundaries, the public debts
amalgamated, the State lands taken over by
the Central Government, the education
system placed under Federal control, the
civil and oriminal law made uniform and ad-
ministered by a purely Federal judiciary,
and the person condemned by that judiciary
put in a Federal gaol by a Federal police-
man, there would be so little use for the old
boundaries that the man on this side of a cer-
tain streak on the map might forget to have a
mean, unreasoning grudge against the man
on the other side. Then the old sacred
hatreds that Dibbs and John Robertson
spent half their lives struggling to keep alive
would be lost, and these and other persons
of their kind would have almost lived in
vain. In addition to the parochial clan, the
people who have axes to grind, and conces-
sions to angle for, and jobs to put through,
are mostly for State Rights, because the
State Parliaments are not so conspicuously
under the lime-light as the Legislature of
all Australia, and their moral atmosphere
seems more favourable to projects of Boodle.
And the Tories are for State Rights to a
man. The less power there is in the hands
of the Federal Parliament, wherein both
Houses are elected on the basis of one adult
one vote, the more power will remain to the
State Parliaments with their nominee Upper
Houses, or Upper Houses elected by a pro-
perty vote, and the better it will be for the
Tory interest.
• * * *
But to the mass of the people State Rights
are not worth the value of one long beer—or
half the value of the froth on the top of one
long beer. To the mass of the people it is
simply a question whether they will govern
themselves mostly through their State Par-
liaments or mostly through their Federal
Parliament, and their interests are in the
latter direction. They have absolute control
over their Federal Parliament, they elect
both Houses by the same suffrage and that
the most liberal suffrage on earth, members
of both Houses are paid, and a seat in either
House is open to any and every male elector
in the Commonwealth. And the people
have not absolute control over their State
Parliaments, where one half the Legislature
either consists of life nominees, or is elected
under a system which shuts out all save the
richest citizens ; and where even the other
half, in several of the States, is created
under restrictions and limitations. The cry
of State Rights is the cry of certain interested
parties demanding that the smallest possible
t/.are of political power shall be given to the
Australian Parliament, where the people are
absolutely supreme, and as large a share as
possible retained by the N.S. W. House of
Aged Nominees, and the Victorian Honseof 48
Rich Landlords, and the Queensland Nominee
Council and Property-vote Assembly. State
Rights, so far as the people are concerned,
are something to be carted away as refuse, or
burned by the common hangman.
• * * *
For the good of Australia it is to be hoped
that the Federal Parliament—the only
People’s Parliament in Australia—will extend
its powers by a vigorous process of encroach-
ment till it owns all the railways and all the
public lands of the Commonwealth, till it is
solely responsible for the public debt, till it
runs the police, the courts of justice, and
the schools, and establishes a uniform sys-
tem of law—in fact, till the State Parlia-
ments and State Governors are abolished,
and all their powers are centred in the Federal
authority. Then, for the further good of
Australia, it is to be hoped that the Federal
Legislature will abolish the old State
boundaries, wipe out the old State names,
and map out the Commonwealth afresh
into twenty or thirty divisions constructed
according to the natural features of the
country, and place each of these divisions
under a Local Government body of one
House—a body that will be more a county
council or divisional board than a Parlia-
ment—whose principal business it will be to
look after local works, apart from railways,
and to conduct itself quietly and orderly, as
a sober county council or divisional board
should. Then, the old States being gone, the
Senate, which is exclusively a House of
States, would naturally go also, and the
House of Representatives would constitute
the whole Parliament of Australia, to the
great acceleration of business.
* * « *
There is a long road to travel before that end
is achieved, but that, or something like it, is
the end that Australia should keep in view.
Australia has no room for State Rights now.
There is no reason why the elector, in his
State capacity, should become violently
hostile to himself in his Federal capacity
because See and Philp and Peacock tell
him to do so. There is no reason why he
should, at their bidding, seek to under-
mine or restrict the Federal Parliament,
which is wholly his own Parliament, in
order to preserve a large share of authority
for a State Parliament which is only partly
his Parliament, the other part being a body
of life nominees or a small clique of wealthy
property-owners. If the Legislature which
is wholly elected by the people can snatch
the authority out of the hands of the selfish
bigots who hold their places in the Tasmanian
and Victorian Legislative Councils solely
because the people’s choice is so restricted
by law that they have only a handful of
selfish bigots to choose from, or if it can
seize the power now held by the doddering
placemen of the N.S.W. and Queensland
Councils, there is no reason why the people
should object. So far from that, it is their
duty and their interest to stand by their
Federal Parliament all the time, to support
it in every encroachment it makes on State
authority, and to incite it to further encroach-
ments. Even if the State Parliaments are
reformed, this reasoning still holds good. ' It
is practically impossible, out of less than
4,000,000 people, to find enough good material
to make seven honest, capable and intelligent
Parliaments. It is probably possible to find
enough to make one. Therefore it becomes
a question of entrusting that one body with
a general supervision of all the country’s
important concerns, or giving it half the
power and leaving the other half to six sets
of incapables. The mental calibre of the
State Parliaments has slumped dismally since
the handful of leading men quitted them to
go into Federal politics, and there is nothing
in the quality of the six remnants to induce
the public to demand that any large affairs
be left to their management.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Municipal Convention.
The movement for the amalgamation of the 43, or
thereabouts, municipalities of Sydney makes a
little progress. Premier See has no plan himself
for placing the dishevelled city under a sane and
useful municipal government, but he has promised
to introduce a Bill authorising the -election of a
convention to draft the necessary scheme. It
remains to be seen whether the convention will be
elected on such a basis as to make the movement
a really popular one, and what energetic steps
Premier See will be prepared to take to carry its
decisions into law. So far as the general principle
goes, however, it has much to recommend it when
a tired and inefficient Government has no pro-
gressive ideas of its own. There is no reason at
all, save tiredness, why the Government shouldn’t
be its own convention, but being much exhausted,
the next best thing it can do is to delegate the hard
work to somebody else. It has taken years of
agitation and worry to get it to do even that. The
convention idea was necessary, in the case of the
Federal Constitution, where six States had to be
consulted, but in this case the matter lies wholly
within one State, and the need arises solely from
the fact that the N.S.W. Ministry has almost
given up tackling large, intricate, difficult sub-
jects. The new system is undoubtedly good for
the people. Things that the Government is too
debilitated to do can be thus rescued from
oblivion, for even a debilitated Government can
authorise the election of a convention and the sub-
mission of its scheme to the popular vote after-
wards especially as the old Bill which authorised
the Federal Convention will do with a few altera-
tions. The convention does the work—it may be
done well or it may be done badly, but it is done,
for it is the only business that the convention has
before it and thus something is kept moving.
The idea prevents the people petrifying;
it furnishes them with a method of attend-
ing to public business when public busi-
ness might otherwise fall down dead; il
prevents stagnation becoming general, and it
teaches the community to help itself. Conven-
tions elected for special purposes may yet become
one of the regular features of public life. At the
same time, Premier See has just been attending
a conference where he bellowed very loudly for
the maintenance of the rights of the State Parlia-
ment, and this tired way of doing things isn’t
calculated to make the public care much for the
rights of the State Parliament. He was assisted
in his bellowing by two other Premiers, who were
both lately pledged to call together similar con-
ventions for the. drafting of new State constitu-
tions because their Governments didn’t feel equal
to the work—the fact that they failed to carry out
their promises doesn’t alter the case. The Bulle-
tin is most cordially in favor of the convention
idea in the present case. It also desires to see a
convention elected to draft a new State constitu-
tion, and it would particularly like to see one
created to draft a complete scheme for keeping
this country going, without any more loans and for
repaying the existing, debts. But the whole thing
is a wild, weird joke in view of the complaints of
See and. co. about the Federal Parliament
encroaching on their political domain. Almost in
the same day See and co. have to agree to create
a special body to encroach on their political
domain, to prevent the domain going utterly to
seed.
«
The Mechanical Foreign-Trade Mind.
The most hopeless feature of the Freetrade party’s
mental outlook is that it has learned its case
parrot-fashion from books published in England
and dealing with English conditions, and it has
no knowledge, information or inference outside its
books. There is nothing in these English books
dealing with Australian conditions, and ,the book-
pedants can’t see these conditions because they
are not in its books. The two sets of circum-
stances are these:
(1) England adopted Freetrade when it was the great
creditor nation, of the world ; it had probably £50,00.1,000
a year coming in from foreign loans and investments.
(2) It adopted Freetrade when it was the great sea-
carrier of the world, and was receiving about £30,000,000
a year for carrying other nations’ goods.
(3) It adopted Freetrade when it was the greatest and
cheapest manufacturing nation in the world and was
ahead of all competitors.
England could afford, when it began its Freetrade
policy, to buy perhaps £80,000,000 worth annually
more than it sold because the outside world had
to pay it that amount. So a policy which
encouraged imports might suit it well enough.
And because of that the Millens, Goulds,
Conroys, Pulsfords and other men wise and
dreary in English book-lore are quite convinced
that the same Freetrade policy of encouraging
imports must suit Australia, which is deeply in debt
and has to keep its imports some £15,000,000 a year
below its exports merely to pay interest and avoid
getting further in debt. The unspeakably doleful
Pulsford recently quoted figures about England’s
prosperity for two solid days, ' just as if England
had started from the same place as we do, and as
if England’s example had any bearing on our ease.
The hide-bound Pulsford theory is that because
a man who lives in London can walk to Dover by
going south-easterly, therefore a man who lives in
Adelaide must also walk south-east and fall into
the ocean if he wants to go to Dover. England
can afford to import more than it exports, partly
because it receives £15,000,000 a year from money
invested in Australia ; therefore, in the Pulsford
philosophy, Australia is equally able to import
more than it exports because it has to pay that
£15,000,000 a year. The purely mechanical mind
is a dull, dry, soulless thing.
+ :
A Labor Programme.
The reform programme just put forth by the
Victorian Labor party—every party is putting
forth a reform programme just now—has many
good points, but on the whole it will do the party
as much harm as good. It shows, in one respect,
a curious inability to shake off old precedents.
The Labor manifesto suggests that the Legislative
Council should consist of 23 members elected by
23 constituencies, and the Assembly of 69, elected
by 69 constituencies, the constituencies to be in
each case on a population basis. Then it proposes
each House should be re-elected every three years,
be based on adult suffrage, with no property quali-
fication for members, and that members of each
House should be paid at the rate of £3OO a year.
Seeing that, under these circumstances, the two
Houses would feel exactly the same way and say
exactly the same thing, the glaring absurdity of
having two Houses is patent. The only possible
use of a Second Chamber which, unless there is
some swindle in the method of election, will
always say ditto to the first one is to pro-
vide 23 superfluous persons with billets. There
is an insuperable difficulty about the Second
Chamber idea. If the Lower House fairly
and honestly represents the people, then its deci-
sions must prevail. If the Upper House says no,
it has to be overruled at great worry and loss of
time; if it says yes, the writer Could sell the Vic-
torian Labor members for 10s. 6d. a small greenish
parrot which says the same thing, and which
would make an equally good Upper House. The
rest of the Victorian Labor programme is a curious
mixture of shrewdness and narrow-mindedness.
It includes an elective Ministry, reduction of the
number of Ministers to five, the initiative and the
referendum, “ rigid economy in all State depart
ments every programme includes that , and the
abolition of the State Governor, all of which ideas
are more or less commendable. Then it goes on
to lay it down that the Ministerial allowances
must not exceed £2OOO a year—and if that means
as it appears to do, five Ministers at £4OO each, it
can only excite pity for the party that expects to
buy brains enough to run the State for the wage
of a superior clerk. Brains must be paid for
like everything else, and five good Ministers
would be cheap at £4OOO each. It is also
recommended that all civil service salaries exceed-
ing £3OO a year should be cut down, which is also
an absurdly cast-iron way of doing things. There
are public service billets with salaries of far more
than £3OO a year where the pay ought be doubled
rather than reduced, and then the country ought
to make sure that it gets a man who is worth the
extra pay. The country doesn’t always get a
good man for a good wage, but it invariably gets
an * n * enor man for an inferior wage, and he
probably saves the country £5OO a year in salary
and loses it £50,000 in bad management. The
programme further proposes to repudiate, in part
at least, the unlucky bargain Victoria made in
the early garish days with its civil service pen-
sioners. It was a costly bargain—the pension
bill runs to something like £300,000 a year; but
still the pensioners are dying off, and the old
disastrous law has been long since repealed, and


a breach of faith, bad as the bargain may have
been, would be utterly unpardonable. And there
is not a word in the programme about making the
country independent of the foreign usurer, about
abandoning the disastrous theory that prosperity
may be reached by getting deeper into debt, or
about establishing a public works policy based on
revenue only. Apparently the Victorian Labor
party is no more aware that there is a financial
, problem that requires solution than it is personally
aware of the bunyip.
—4.
Barton’s Funk.
Alfred Deakin’s statement as to the defeated
attempt to increase Lord Hopetoon’s annual
salary by £BOOO “allowances,” shows how pitifully
Premier Barton funked his responsibility in the
matter until he was on the point of getting away
to the Coronation spree. On Jan. 11, 1901, Joe
Chamberlain wrote to his official friend, Hope-
toun, advising him to fall in with the resolution,
passed at the Premiers’ conference held early in
1900, to the effect that “ Governors should not be
expected to supplement their salaries from their
private means.” A previous Josephian despatch
had urged, without success, a more expensive
state of things. Finding that the original £lO,OOO
figure was the popular Australian idea of a maxi-
mum salary for the Gov.-General, the wily man
at Downing-street now asked his pupil to go
slow, and be guided by the “living within his
salary” principle. “I consider,” wrote J.C. on
Jan. 11, 1901, “ that this principle in which
the Premiers expressed their concurrence, and
which, I have no doubt, they would agree applies
to the Gov.-General as well as to State Governors,
is of the greatest importance, since it makes it
possible for the Crown to select a suitable person
for the high office of Her Majesty’s representative
without requiring of him a heavy pecuniary sacri-
fice. From the point of view of public interest I
consider it important that you should limit your
hospitality in capitals other than Sydney, strictly
to such official entertainment as you may consider
necessarily demanded, unless and until some fair
and suitable provision be made by the States or
by the Commonwealth for the expenses involved.”
Certainly there are no flies on Joe Chamberlain’s
social statesmanship. He told Hopetoun to cut
his pomp to suit his salary, and confine his enter-
tainments to Sydney (which Joseph evidently
thinks is the Federal capital), just as the Canadian
potentate restricts his little extravagances to
Ottawa. So much for the private instructions from
Downing-street. When they were passed along to
Premier Barton, by way of forcing him to approve
or disapprove, that clean-shaven procrastinator
replied (Feb. 21, 1901) that the Ministry had
agreed to submit a measure to Parliament which
would meet the situation, and this measure, says
Deakin, was decided on previous to the arrival of
the Chamberlain letter. “A Bill granting the
Gov.-General £BOOO a year allowances till the
Federal capital was in existence ” lay peacefully
on Barton’s conscience for fully 14 months before
he dared to plank it down upon the table of the
House. _ All that time Hopetodn— poor man !
was living with an accent on the first syllable of
his ancestral title. He gazed wistfully at Premier
Toby whenever they met at some “function” or
other, and Toby pretended to be blind to the
pathos in the vice-regal eye. The stout gentleman
was playing for safety—and a trip to the Corona-
tion. He has secured the outing, but the glare in
Hopetoun’s eye, when they next meet, ought to
make even him uncomfortable.
*
Bombala—the Federal Capital.
J cst now Sydney is close up to a water famine,
and Brisbane is closer still; in fact, it is reckoned
that unless there is heavy rain between now and
September the Brisbane River will run dry.
Most of the proposed Federal capitals are to-day
like the shifting wastes of Sahara or the hobs of
Gehenna. But when the visiting members of the
House of Representatives visited the Monaro
district of N.S. Wales the other day in search
of a Federal city, they found, even in this
season of desperate drought, enough pure
water flowing down the Snowy River to supply
the whole metropolitan area of Sydney 1\ times
over, and yet the Snowy was lower than it had
been for 35 years. This was at 3000 ft. above sea-
level, so that, if the Federal city was planted
almost anywhere thereabouts, abundance of water
for a population of 600,000 souls or more, could be
taken to it inexpensively by gravitation. Even
the wildly abusive language of Melbourne Age—
whose special axe, whatever axe it may be,
seems to be one that can’t be conveniently
ground up on Monaro —fails to disguise the
fact that the great New South Wales
tableland is the only place that has any
fair claim to be in the running for the
Federal capital. That city will, in time, gather a
large population round it, and Australia needs to
gather that population on the cool highlands,
where it is possible to breed a sturdy race, not to
concentrate more and more people in the sultry,
breathless plains where the community grows
tired and puts things off till to morrow. It needs
to put its new population alongside permanent
water, so that it can wash and irrigate, and the
present drought points to the fact that the Snowy
and other adjacent streams are almost the only
absolutely permanent waters in New South
Wales. The Bombala site is the only one yet
suggested which can have a good port of its own
■on Federal territory. It is easily defensible —
though it is, close to the sea, yet a mountain range
:3000ft. high takes a great deal of storming. The
soil is reasonably fertile. The population is thin,
which will make the process of resumption
cheaper, and the site appears to have the
venomous disapproval of the Age, which is,
perhaps, something to its credit. Among all these
recommendations it is difficult to say which is the
most important, but the water question is at least
a leading feature. Sydney and Brisbane, with
their comparatively small populations, yet on the
verge of water famine, have this year got some
slight indication of what may happen to an Aus-
tralian city of a million or two million people in
these lowlands, with an enormously increased
demand for water, and not one absolutely reliable
stream—one warranted to keep flowing in all
droughts between them and Bourke. The
necessity .of attracting population to the high-
lands, where there is permanent water, should
seriously occur to the Australian people now if it
never occurred seriously before.
4
The Plague—its Unmerciful Mildness.
Most unhappily the 1902 plague season seems to
be passing away without such a record as would
thoroughly scare the people of dirty Sydney into
sanitary whoiesorneness. It has claimed victims,
provided on some days mild sensations, but has
never come out with really startling figures ; and
already the brief spasm of cleanliness goes by,
and heads nod again preparatory to slumber in
the old filth. Sydney is afflicted with all manner
of dirt diseases —typhoid and dysentery, due
mainly to dirty milk; pneumonia and consump-
tion, arising from filth and damp; scarlet fever,
scarlatina, diphtheria, coming from bad drains
and rotten garbage heaps. All these, like the
poor, we have always with us, and are re-
conciled to having with us. Though the
last outbreak of pneumonia killed five times
as many people as the present outbreak of
plague, and maintained an appalling average of
mortality, it excited no scare, suggested no big
cleaning up. But the Blague, the Black Death,
the Pest, has a series of awe-inspiring names and
it frightens—frightens the individual into a bath,
and the town council into a hurried destruction of
aged accumulations of garbage. So, with its com-
paratively limited range of selection and its, after
all, comparatively low mortality rate, the Plague
really comes as a blessing. If this 1902 outbreak
had been severe, had for one month set itself to
establish a record, there would have been
some reasonable hope of a rat-proof, cleaned-
up and possible-to-be-kept-cleaned-up, properly-
drained, properly-scavenged Sydney. And the
result would have been such a marked diminution
in scarlet fever, consumption, pneumonia, diph-
theria, and typhoid mortality as would have
recouped the community a hundred-fold for the
lives lost whilst the Plague was raging. But,
unfortunately, it so far has not raged, and threatens
to flicker out —to come back next year, and next
year, and never to secure a real reform of Sydney’s
sanitation until it claims at least a thousand
victims at one fell swoop. The community forgets
scores and hundreds in a week or less. To be
heeded, the Pest must speak in big figures. Or,
perhaps, Fate will not be so merciful as to be con-
tent with Plague-warnings. The next visitor may
be Cholera, for which Sydney and Brisbane
offer the choicest of hunting-grounds, and its
victims would be counted not in one, but in many
thousands.
4
Appraisement—All or None.
Some remarks from a N.S.W. politician :
Not the least peculiar feature of the peculiarly-
managed N.S.W. Lands Department is the re-appraisement
scheme which now almost constitutes the sole business of
every land board in the Central Division. By allowing
re-appraisement the Lands Dept, practically admits that
it is a various kind of ass, because it sends one body of
“experts” to value the land before selection, and appoints
another body and a land board to reduce that valuation
after selection. The first thing the new selector does is
to demand a re-valuation, for the appraisement idea has
got such a firm grip on the “ man on the land ” that, no
matter what value is placed on a block, it is considered
too high, and the Lands Department is viewed in the
same light as an uncle from Fiji. Obviously, then, the
first valuation has no merit and can be dispensed with,
or guesswork would do equally well and save much need-
less expense. Now, there are two simple ways of
knocking out completely this appraisement folly : (1) a
measure to compulsorily appraise every holding
in N.S.W., so that the fellow who has his
land below its real value can come up a
few steps, and the high-priced one get on fair
terms by going down a bit. It’s a poor kind of scheme
which doesn’t cut both ways. But what sorb of a howl
would be raised if such a measure were proposed, and
what a chance it would have of becoming law 1 It would
terrify the bush M.L.A., who makes himself solid with the
new selector by yelling for appraisement—that blessed
word would lose its charm if there was any risk of it fall-
ing heavily on the old one. (2) Make every future selector
■ put his own valuation on the land, i.e., make so many
blocks available for settlement, and invite tenders for
each at so much per acre per annum, the highest bidder,
provided he satisfied the Department he was eligible, and
his offer wasn’t below the fixed reserve figure, to take it,
and at his own price. This would have the merit of being
business-like, and certainly would compare favorably with
the present clumsy method, which pries into an applicant’s
antecedents—his character, his financial position—neces-
sitating the appointment of a board, which generally ends
its inquiries by giving a block to the man with the largest
family ; or the ballot system, which, according to Senator
Drake, must come under the definition of gambling, and
is therefore a thing which no self-respecting Department
could tolerate for a moment.
4
The Two Judases.
Papers and politicians have tried to ram it down
Australia’s throat that it is the accepted rule for
the patriot who opposes a war to keep silent about
it once the guns speak. In England, however,
neither now nor hitherto, has such a rule been
generally accepted, though here and there it is
screechingly insisted upon as though it were
something not to be argued about. The modern
fods in whose interests the demand for gagging
onest (and probably right) opinion is made
never had any respect for this alleged
rule, themselves. Follow Judas Chamber-
lain’s career. Since he went into politics
the most serious wars up to this have been
with the Boers, the Afghans, and the Zulus. All
these he opposed. “ What is the use of being
great and powerful if we are afraid to admit an
error when we are conscious of it ? ” he asked in
’Bl, speaking of the peace with the Boers. “ Our
losses,” he went on, “did not make the original
cause of the war more just; they did not make
the prolongation of this miserable and inglorious
struggle more desirable and expedient.” And so
Chamberlain and his then party-fellows opposed
further bloodshed—“ the vain pursuit of military
glory ’’—and opposed it successfully. Lord Hart-
ington (now Duke of Devonshire) was leader of
the Opposition when the Tories plunged England
into the Afghan and Zulu wars. Hartington
moved a vote of censure, and incidentally referred
to this fictitious rule of silence :—•
If it were necessary to refer to precedents I could point
to the conduct pursued by the Opposition at the dose of
the last and the beginning of the present century in the
course of the War of Independence with the American
colonies and the Revolutionary War in France. With
respect to the first case, at all events, there is no doubt
that the Opposition took a wise and patriotic course in
continuing to oppose the Government during the war.
But it is unnecessary to refer to Precedent, for Reason
points to the same conclusion.
Chamberlain spoke to the motion and referred
to—
Those members who had invented a convenient theory
by which opposition was silenced in the presence of
foi eign complications. If we attempt discussion before
war breaks out, we are hampering the Govt, in negotia-
tions and endangering peace. If we wait till war is upon
us, then it is said that, in an unpatriotic way, we are
dividing the country in the presence of the enemy. If
we postpone discussion until the war is over, then we are
told we are guilty of futile fault-finding.
But there is hardly one first or second-rank man
who has not seen that the alleged rule of silence is
mere bluff, and that the patriot’s duty is clearly
to courageously attempt to save his country if he
believes she is being misled to ruin. Salisbury
(then Robert Cecil) saw it in the Chinese war *
Lansdowne in the Zulu war ; and Rosebery in
the Afghan war, against the continuance of which
he voted.
-
The Kyabram Sweaters.
The party with the “Kyabram programme”
continues to make a loud and insufferable ass
of itself in Victoria. The day after Premier
Peacock announced his programme at Clunes a
whole stack of M.’sL. A. were interviewed by the
daily papers, and their almost unanimous decision
was that “ tremendous economies will have to be
exercised in the public service.” And not one
blockhead of the crowd seemed to know where
they were to be effected. The short history of the
Kyabram-programme crowd is that it wants a
high civilisation at about half the price of bar-
barism. Its State has nearly six times as much
railway accommodation proportionately to popu-
lation as the people of Great Britain have, and it
has lower fares and freights in many cases than
they have, and it is always howling for more
railway and still lower charges, and it demands
that the lines be kept in better repair, which
means more employees and more cost, and it
writes to the papers when railway employees are
overworked, and at the same time it wants the
staff reduced, and the lines made to pay better.
It has free education, and it would raise Cain and
his dead brother, Abel, if it were made to pay 6d.
per week for each child so as to diminish the bulk
of the education vote in the national balance-
sheet. In fact, it is always demanding more
school accommodation. It howls for more police
protection, and less money to be spent. It
demands that expensive contingents be sent to
South Africa, and it approves cordially of old-age
pensions, to save it supporting its own aged
father ; and having driven the Government into
spending large sums on these items it asks
furiously why the expenditure is increasing, and
wants to have the country run as cheaply with
old age pensions and contingents as it was without
them. It raises 25 times more row over a local
rate of Is. 4d. in the £ than they do in London
over one of 6s. 6d. Among all the dozens of
reformers who have insisted on an instant cutting
down of something, there isn’t one who has shown
anything of any size that can be cut down. Vic-
toria is a very cheaply-managed and lightly-taxed
country—some of its services are going to wreck
through being run too cheaply. And a vast pro-
portion of the ignorant sweaters who run the
“reform” movement should paint themselves
black and take to the bush as aborigines. That is
the way to get really cheap government.
♦
“Vulcan ” writes
It amuses (and galls) me to watch Australia in general,
lying in noisy and inactive admiration of itself, bragging
of its “ Democracy,” of its “ Socialistic Institutions,”
etc., resting under the fond delusion that it is a particu-
larly bright and shining example to “ Tory England ” in
the ways she should go, and slowly degenerating into
the backward and stupid pupil of the country it had
thought to teach. A case or two in point (to he read side
by side with the reports of the Snow Tramway Grab, for
instance !): —Hull (England) municipal trams returned a
net profit of £40,000 last year, and of this, after deducting
£lO,OOO for the relief of the rates, £30,000 was put by in
three divisions: (1) to a sinking-fund for the repayment
of the original cost of the system ; (2) for payment of in-
terest on the above ; (3) to a sinking-fund for the renewal
of obsolete plant, etc. Now, of the profits of the Sydney
tram system for the last 15 years, what amount
has been put aside for the redemption of the
original debt or for the substitution of more up-to-
date systems as they arise ? To record that
amount as nil is bad enough, but to that add this :
Having lately initiated a new system without having yet
paid for the old, Sydney, under the mismanagement of its
addle-pated bosses, will shortly be not only paying stiff
interest on the new trams, but an equally stiff interest on
those old ones, which the new have practically consigned
to the Moore Park dirt-tip ! . . . Melbourne and Brisbane
and Adelaide are not mentioned in this connection, for the
reason that, in allowing their city tramways to fall
into the clutches of private cos., they are beneath
criticism. Again, in Liverpool (Eng.) some .years
ago the local council took over the steam ferry service
running between Birkenhead and Liverpool, improved it,
ran it a few years with varying success, until, in 1901, it
at last showed a net profit of over £13,000. Now, the
Liverpool-Birkenhead service of to-day could no more be
bought for five times the sum given for the “ puffing
billies ” of some few years ago than the Sydney Ferries of,
say, 20 years hence could be purchased for ten times the
amount that would easily acquire them to-day. But
what effort has the Sydney City Council ever made to
become possessed of this magnificent revenue-producer
while it is yet comparatively cheap ? And having made
none whatsoever, why ? But perhaps the fact that writer
saw a bundle of Harbor-Ferries shares bulging from a
city alderman’s pocket t’other day answers the last
question !
+
The Federal Constitution declares that “ uniform
duties of customs shall be imposed within two
years” after the beginning of the Commonwealth.
The two years expire on 31st Dec. next, and if it is
held, as seems to be the case, that duties are not
legally “imposed” till the tariff is passed then
there are just seven months for that tariff to get
through. If it doesn’t get through it is alleged that
the old State tariffs will come in force again, border
duties included. Then there will be no legal means
of making a uniform tariff; and all the millions
collected in Federal duties must be handed
back—only, as they have been spent they can’t
be handed back. The Government made all
reasonable speed at drafting the tariff, but nearly
a year has elapsed since it was introduced, and
the dreadful Conroy has made something like
200 speeches about it, and every time the Govern-
ment tried to push things along a little, Sydney
Smith raised a stonewall. Every attempt to get
anything like a move on the business brought up
the gang of foreign importers with a lament about
“ stifling free discussion.” Now, after about ten
months’ talk, and with the measure about half
through, and the anti-Australian-industry party
still in full blast, and the biggest possible dead-
lock only seven months ahead, affairs are in-
teresting.
4
When the Australian democrat gets a little time
on his hands he will do well to use it finding out
how much democracy he really possesses. Hardly
a week passes, for instance, without a Premier in
a State or Federal House informing members that
such or such a communication from the British
authorities has been marked “private and con-
fidential” and cannot, therefore, be divulged.
After events show that in many cases the communi-
cations dealt with current questionsof local politics,
such as a White Australia or the emoluments of
a Governor. Only that they are meant to have
an effect on current or impending politics the com-
munications would be unnecessary. But if they
are so meant, is Australian democracy legislatively
what it claims to be ? Parliament controls the
Premier, the Ministry, it is true ; and the electors
control Parliament. But at many junctures the
Premier, in practice, controls the Ministry, and
the Ministry controls Parliament, and Parliament
laughs at the country. With a “ private and con-
fidential” influence at work, the measure of
democracy is consequently the measure of the
Premier’s democracy. An autonomous people
should discourage, condemn, penalise a Govern-
ment that accepts, on its current or impending
politics, “private and confidential” communica-
tions from any outside authority.
*
“ Glenaka ” writes from south-west Victoria :
Tired at last of the bitterly unequal struggle against
Nature the mallee settlers are leaving that woefully
drought-stricken region and are making for the plains in
the south-western corner of Victoria. Human wonders,
these men. Year by year they have battled on ; hoping
against hope ; waiting for the good seasons that never
came ; sowing but never reaping anything worth while.
Now, plucky as ever, with nothing but their teams and
battered machinery, they are clearing for new country,
hoping to “ make a rise.” Had Vic. Govt, attended to
its business properly they would undoubtedly have made
it.- The S.W. land—of medium quality, manurable,
reliable, well-watered, easily-worked and specially adapted
for wheat-growing —was offered to the Lands Dept, at its
grazing value, about £3 an acre, and the local press and
politicians strongly urged the buying of it and letting it
out again for farming purposes. But Peacock and Co.
were very busy at that time, endeavoring to get a “ dis-
loyal ” member fired out of Parliament. Anyway, they
said, the Govt, was only buying first class land ; and this
was ranked as third class. As if it mattered if it were
23rd class, provided it gave profitable employment to a
brave and deserving portion of the population and a
remunerative return to the Crown ! Now, the rush of
applicants has caused a land-boom on the Mt. William
and surrounding plains. The straight-out buying price
has been doubled already, and rents have been raised
accordingly. And the men who have faced so much
already will find themselves burdened with a heavy rent
or interest bill, and have to work for the benefit of the
squatter-owners. And for this the}' can thank Peacock
and Co.
_ 4-
It is suggested in Queensland that the State con-
trol of licenses may be worked to good purpose.
For instance, the Federal Parliament may take
the duty off foreign boots, and they will come
into the State free. But if the State enacts that
nobody shall sell foreign boots without paying
£lOO license, or that no foreign boots will be sold
unless they bear a ss. inland-revenue stamp on the
sole, the State will certainly be ahead —for the
time being, at all events. The idea contains the
germ of a larger reform than its advocates are
aware of. A time will probably come when all
shopkeepers will have to pay a license —ditto all
agents, brokers, merchants, dealers, lawyers, and
the like. In every country there should be just
the smallest number of traders and middlemen
and other non-producers that will suffice to
do the work, instead of the largest number that
can scratch an existence out of the business.
The wealth of a country is made by its producers.
Every needless middleman is a producer the less.
The more middlemen that intrude themselves
between the producer and the consumer, the less
the producer gets and the more the consumer
pays. When sixteen shops are making a pre-
carious living selling the goods that could be dis-
posed of in four shops, then 12 shopkeepers spend
most of their time loafing and dusting the stock ;
12 producers are lost; and 12 needless shop-rents
and gas-bills have to be added to the consumer’s
bills or deducted from the price the producer
receives. The superfluous shopkeeper, who spends
one-sixth of his time in actual work and the rest
in waiting for customers, is a sorrowful example of
the waste of human material.
. 4
Young man, go and be a schoolmaster —in South
Australia. South Australia (writes a Bulletin
correspondent)
has just about solved the problem of how to get its State
school teaching done efficiently at a sweating wage. The
youthful candidate who passes for pupil-teacher works
some time at a nominal wage, provided that he can teach.
Then two years are spent at the pupil teachers’ school,
two more in actual training, and, lastly, two years in
study at the University Training College. After these
six years, which brings him up to the minimum average
age of 22 years, he is, if in luck, classified F—the lowest
grade possible. Also, if he is lucky enough to get an
appointment as an assistant straight off—there is no
guarantee—he starts at £BO a year, and by seven yearly
increments he may, given good reports, reach the mag-
nificent salary of £l5O a year—aged, on an average, at
least 29 years. It is specially provided that “no one can
hold the position of first assistant till the expiration of
seven years at least after leaving the University
Training College.” After his training course, should
he elect to take a country school, he starts at £9O
a year, and in the seventh year, by way of increments,
he may, granted good reports, attain to £l6O a year,
“with £lO a year deducted throughout when living
accommodation is provided.” Further, in S.A. the city
head-master is a petty autocrat, armed with great powers
of report. Woe to the benighted assistant who knows
not how to grovel or gives evidence of vertebrae—he may
look to his portmanteau. Also, the assistant is expected
—another word for “must”—to control by personal
influence, moral suasion, personal charm, &c. Ye gods !
Think of it—thirteen years for best men to reach £l5O a
years—a whimsical head-master or inspector may extend
it to 20 years ! Thirteen years at least before getting a
first assistantship at £l6O to £2OO a year by increments !
That is 17 years, all going well, to attain to £2OO a year as
an assistant—this at an average age of 33 years.
Were evidence needed} f the curious state of the
Yic. Railways rolling-stock, the Parliamentary
committee appointed to enquire into the depart-
mental ways could supply plenty. Two foremen
engine-cleaners let in a flood of light the other day.
Said one, “He had not had sufficient cleaners
for 6or 7 years. He wanted 35 extra men at
least. The rule was that an engine should be
cleaned every 100 miles it ran, and this was
observed till Mr. Speight retired. Since then it
had been go-as-you-please and he cleaned the
engines whenever he could.” Another, “He had
not enough cleaners ; in years gone by he had 67
cleaners for his average 50 engines per night, now
he only had 14 or 15. The result was that engines
frequently ran warm, sustained damage and often
had to be laid up for a week or more. Owing to
the shortage of cleaners some men had had no
holiday for two years.” Two drivers corroborated
this evidence, one going so far as to state that
there was hardly an engine on the lines in a first-
class state. And a third-class engine running on
a second-class road often makes a first-class
smash.
4
The “Reform Movement ” in Victoria has called
forth some rich gems of Tory utterance from the
local Fatman. For example, Capt. Pursey
Chirnside (salute !) wrote to his admiring coun-
trymen at Ballan, telling them that “Parliament
will never be reformed until electors place men
who have a stake and interest in the country
there,” which was Purser's way of explaining that
payment of members is the root of all parliamen-
tary evil. And yet, if Pursey were to take a
brain-tonic and lock himself up in his study and
brood upon wisdom for two hours before dinner,
it might dawn upon his foggy intellect that a sure
way of giving a man a stake and interest in the
government of a country is to make him a paid
member of the Legislature. The Labor member
at £3OO a year, who wants the money badly,
is very much interested in governing the country
wisely ; if he can’t show good results he loses his
billet. He has a much arger stake in the country
than the man who can sell his properties or float
them into a company, and put the draft for
£151,376 into his pocket, and take a saloon passage
for London never to return. The man with a real
stake in the country is the man without means to
pay his own and his family’s passage away from
it. The rich man, in many cases, only wants to
keep the country afloat till he has time to realise
his properties, or float his ca,ts, and after that it
may go hang.
The question of maintaining a little navy of our
own or contributing to the British one has been
well put in this fashion : Suppose Britain is
licked, badly licked, by a sudden attack—and
every nation is badly licked some day. The
victor will require a cession of territory—and the
territory required may be Australia. We may
db handed over like sheep to France or Germany
or Russia. Then we must rely on our own forces
to resist the cession. An Australian navy would
make a resistance. A subsidised British navy
would be bound by the terms of the treaty, and
would have to turn against us the very guns we
paid for to enforce the surrender. And that is
one good reason why we should have our own
navy—not paid for out of loans but out of taxa-
tion, as the British navy is.


The EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
of the United States.
FINANCIAL STATEMENT
FOR YEAR ENDING 31st DECEMBER, 1901.
ASSETS
INCREASE IN ASSETS
SURPLUS ..
INCREASE IN SURPLUS
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
INCREASE IN ASSURANCE IN FORCE ..
THE NEW BUSINESS EXCEEDED THAT OF 1900 BY ...
£68.966,608
£5,508,678
£14,797,717
£1,039,973
£245,682,651
£13,000,350
£8,088,718
LOCAL DIRECTORS:
Sir WM. M'MILLAN, K.C.M.G., Chairman ; Hon. O. K. MAOKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.O. ;
F. NORTON MANNING, Esq., M.D.
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, F.S.S.,
F, 0. COWLEY, Secretary. Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
Eye COMFORT!
ĥ
Is yours if you come here for
your glasses. We’ll test your
eyes FREE, and advise glasses
ONLY when absolutely neces-
sary. n.b. —Post Test sent
Free to any country address.
WOOD, THE
299
Ceorge-st.
OPTICIAN,
Note ONLY Address—299 George-st.,
(Top of Hunter-st. in GEorge-si
and Equitable Buildings, Elizabeth-et.,
Sydney
Melbourne
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “A Runaway Girl.”
Lyceum “In London Town.”
Tiv01i....... Rickards’Co.
Palace “ Facing the Music.”
Criterion “ The Christian.”
Town Hall Dolores Concerts (June 3 and 5.)
Centenary Hall Newbury-Spada Pops (Saturday).
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ The Thirty Thieves.”
Her Majesty’s Waldorf Dramatic Season.
Theatre Royal “ The Mariners of England.”
Bijou World’s Entertainers.
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
4 '
A gloom was cast over Sydney Criterion
last week by the news that “ The Christian ” was
to be produced on Saturday before a heart-broken
public. “The Christian ”is the account of ona John
Storm who strove to be an ancient disciple in a tail
coat and modern boots, and came into collision with
a non-enthusiastic 19th century in consequence.
This stage sermon has been presented once or
twice in Sydney before, and Sydney was surprised
and pleased to find that the Criterion’s lady drama-
tist presented a brighter and brisker version than
it had hitherto seen. The Monastery Scene is
ejected altogether. This is possibly to be
commended. It was a large, dreary act in the
other version, and the moral it preaches against
celibacy isn’t required in this country. On the
other hand, its disappearance leaves a hiatus in
the gradual maddening of John Storm. Steadily
through the book John’s tail grows longer and his
eye wilder, and the monastery was one of the
influences which contributed to the lengthening of
John’s tail and the kindling of a flame in his
eye. He was the end of an ill-balanced curate
when he went in, and he was the beginning
of a deranged “Father” when he came
out, and the dropping of the monastery
disconnects the story of his mental decay.
The vacuum caused by the vanishment of the
Brotherhood of the Holy Gethsemane is filled up
with scenes of low-class London life, including a
picture of the Mission. Hall, where the children
are ranged under texts half a yard high, and sung
to sleep with a coon song instead of a hymn. One
of the Refuge girls interpolates the coon song,
which is of the “Sleep, Ma Honey” order. She
does it evidently to cheer up another girl, who
has lost her baby, and to remind her genially
that some women still have their children
though hers is gone. The first act, which
opens with the Isle of Man parishioners taking
tea and bun outside the village church, moves
pleasantly enough, and Alf. Woods performs well
his sad office as the religious prig who sheds moral
maxims all round to the expressed annoyance of
the feminine portion of the audience. When
later on, however, he takes to knocking people
down in order to help the good cause, his character
with the audience is retrieved. John Storm has
to show a considerable amount of muscular
Christianity in this version, and the manner in
which he knocks down Christians and pagans
alike is all that it should be. Later on, he is
knocked down himself, and married, not out in
the street as was the ridiculous custom in the
other version, but inside the drawing-room on a
chair, with the pagans he has denounced doing all
they can for him.
* * * *
The character does not show Alf. Woods
at his best. Miss Maud Williamson isn’t Glory
Quayle in appearance, and the red hair that
symbolised that erratic damsel’s revolt from the
humdrum is conspicuously absent. Nevertheless,
Miss Williamson, even with her staid black
locks, leaves the usual impression that Glory
sticks to John’s mission and the large texts,
and the melancholy coon song for one month after
John’s death, and then decides to marry Francis
Drake, who has meanwhile repented vaguely of
indistinct sins under John’s preaching, and goes
about looking like a large and conscience-stricken
ghost. The scene where John is asked to kiss
Glory and gives in after much persuasion, hangs
fire a little at the beginning, but grips well as it
goes on. Charles Woods makes a respectable
villain of the languid, gentlemanly sort, and the
remainder of the characters, with one or two ex-
ceptions, deserve no great reproach.
** * *
Frank Thornton, a crinkled little man of
mirth whom Sydney has badly missed for four
years, opens a season at the Palace on Saturday
with “Facing the Music.” As Thornton has
never brought anything dull to this country Syd-
ney will doubtless take the new show on trust,
and invest its two half-crowns with a light heart
and its shilling in a hopeful spirit. The bulk of
the present theatre-going generation remembers
Thornton best as the Private Secretary. He seems
to have dawned on most people in that charac-
ter, and though he has played many good
things since, the Secretary is a recollection
never to be effaced. Thornton came upon the
public as a humble, apologetic head and a
pair of goloshes looking round a door and asking
if he might come in (the above sentence is possibly
a trifle confused, but no matter), and the fact that
he did come right in is one upon which the city
has congratulated itself ever since. Theco. which
arrives with Thornton is new to the plague-
stricken city with the approaching water-famine.
The leading men struggle under the names of
Joseph Wilson and Alexander Bradley. Men
named Joseph and Alexander seldom prove quite
satisfactory, but possibly these two are an excep-
tion to the rule.
** * *
Williamson’s comic opera co. doesn’t stay
long in one place nowadays, and its visit to
Sydney Royal, which ends next week, is as tem-
porary as the rest of its doings. In the days when
Gilbert used to get up early in the morning and
write an opera occasionally things were different.
The co. which came along with a “Mikado” in
its bag could take a furnished house for six
months, with a feeling that it had come to stay.
Now its chief support consists of pleasant, bubble-
some trifles like the “Runaway Girl,” and how-
ever well they go for a little while, it isn’t
advisable to settle down and take root in the
community with such an unreliable means of sub-
sistence. So the co. will pursue the elusive copper
in new spheres of usefulness about the end of next
week.
** * *
J ust as The Bulletin was being printed
the World’s Entertainers were quitting Sydney
Palace Theatre, after the exhausting work of
putting on two four-hour programmes in one
day. American variety has won a high place in
Sydney’s regard and a warm welcome will be
given to the Entertainers when they come back
next year.
** * *
Sydney Lyceum is billed to remove the
large good brother off the stage this week and
produce another shock called “ In London Town.”
The convention that every stage city must be
London is a melancholy one. Why cannot the
heroine wail in a Liverpool snowstorm by way of
variety, or meet the kind-hearted dog-stealer or
baked ’tater man by a Manchester crossing?
Anyway, “In Sight of St. Paul’s,” is off this
week.
** * *
The bitterness of the inter-State net-ball
game is gradually eating into the soul of the audi-
ence at Sydney Tivoli. The net-ball game is
raging there and at Melbourne Opera House
simultaneously. Last week, the teams which are
supposed to represent Victoria scored best
at both houses, the N.S. W. team being
doubtless stiffened with public funds ab-
stracted at midnight from the Federal Treasury
by Deakin and Turner 1 . If this sort of thing goes
on, the Tivoli galleryites will march on Melbourne
and burn Fitzgibbon to the ground, and slay the
Yarra in cold blood, and lay waste the sewage-
farm with fire and sword and half-brick. Peggy
Pryde and some other cheerful people help to
distract public attention from the wrong done to
N.S.W. in the net-ball game. Blessed are the
peace-makers!
*W * *
Mdlle. Antonia Dolores (Trebelli) will
resume melody at Sydney Town Hall for two
nights only—Tuesday and Thursday next—after
a three months tour of Maoriland, where she
floated in the wake of Amy Castles, and had over-
crowded houses. The Dolores smile made a tre-
mendous impression on one susceptible Maori
chief, and after rhapsodising in 15 dialects
of English and Maori, he rushed off in a state of
frenzy. Next morning, Mdlle. received a new
concert dress, a pin for her back-hair consisting of
a huge Maori god carved in greenstone, and
weighing somewhere about half-a-hundredweight;
and a huia feather. The above extraneous matter
is intended to imply that any remarks on the
beauty of Mdlle.’s singing are superfluous.
** * *
Mr. George Grimm’s farewell concert takes
place on Saturday (31st). A capital programme
by leading singers is announced.
** * *
“The Thirty Thieves,” introduced to this
country for the first time at Melbourne Prin-
cess’s last Saturday, proved to be 13 gentle-
men in satin swallow-tails and knee-breeches,
headed by a baritone captain of commanding
stature whose fixings were even more “dossy”
than those of the gang. They wore black satin in
the first act, and red satin in the second act, and
there was no sense in them. The lady section of
the chorus also appeared to great advantage as
regards costumes. These ladies were described as
man servants and maid servants of the Lord
Mayor’s Household, the Lord Mayor being an
elderly exponent of an American accent, with no
other human interest attaching to him save a sub-
stantial young daughter (Miss May Beatty) and a
nimble secretary (Edward Lauri). Three other
people concerned in the well-dressed foolishness
were a wood-cutter, his son, and his hired gal, who
had found the hidden treasure of the Thieves,
Srevious to their idiotic burglary of the Lord
layor’s mansion. A £lO,OOO reward which the
Lord Mayor offered for the capture of the Thieves
on condition that he married the girl, or did not
marry her, was understood to be largely respon-
sible for whatever happened during the evening,
but the happenings lost all claim to intelligent
consideration when the triflesome character of
the show was fairly established. “The Thirty
Thieves ” seems a waste of splendour. The plot
is humorless in its efforts to be eccentric, the dia-
logue has not a spark of wit, the action is not
brisk. If the second act, as stated by the manage-
ment, is now brighter than its London original,
The Bulletin would like to know ex-
actly how dull the unimproved second act
could have been, and why a level - headed
manager like Musgrove thought it worth while to
import “Thirty Thieves” to these latitudes.
Williamson has never scored a success with any
musical show that was entirely lacking in literary
merit—and, indeed, some that possessed merit
were failures because the characters in the story
didn’t look sufficiently real. Musgrove will be
lucky if he gets a good five weeks out of this pro-
duction, notwithstanding its new company and
smart staging.
* * * *
The men are the most attractive items.
J. C. Piddock, the baritone captain of the Thieves,
is a little larger in all respects than Brownlow,
whom he resembles; also he shakes a looser,
lighter leg than our old friend, Henry of Navarre.
Edward Lauri, as the Mayor’s secretary, gets
along happily in a part which would crush a weak
comedian, and his versatile dance at the begin-
ning of the second act “knocks” the house.
Foster Courtenay, the woodcutter, shapes very
promisingly, W. R. Shirley appears to be just an
ordinary sort of new arrival, and the Mayor is
Charles Van Dyne, who supported Miss Stanton
in Sydney. There is not much to be said for
Van Dyne, except that he might have been a less
satisfactory struggler, considering the stuff he was
required to speak. The lady principals are only
two —Miss May Beatty, who is coupled with
Edward Lauri most of the time, and puts a fair
amount of vim into her frivol, and Miss Josephme
Stanton, hitherto a stranger to Melbourne.
Miss Stanton can sing nicely enough, though her
vocal gymnastics are not of a high order. She
has the further advantages of yellow hair, a plump
figure and a brilliant costume, but her American
way of speaking is much too casual for a comic
opera heroine. The music of the “ Thirty
Thieves ” usually suggests something one has
heard before, and these reminiscent melodies are
always pleasing, of course. The choruses, and
two or three of the other songs, notably the wood-
cutter’s ditty about the lost girl and her missing
eighteenpence, sound very bright amidst the
leaden grey dialogue, whilst the scenery and
dresses keep the eye contented all the time.
** * *
At Her Majesty’s the well-worn drama of
Napoleon and his Divorce, and the tableau that
befell him after he extinguished his Little Star of
Fortune came to pass again on Saturday. This
performance scarcely justifies the revival. It cer-
tainly doesn’t excuse the billing of Miss Waldorf’s
nameinlargertypethan otherpeople’s names. Miss
Waldorf was an uninteresting Camille on Thursday
and Friday, and now, as Josephine, she settles any
remaining doubt as to her want of force in specially
emotional characters. The least unconvincing
feature of H. H. Vincent’s work in the stagey
“ Boney ” part is the actor’s Napoleonic make-up.
Sundry other make-ups are effective,_ and the
company in general finds no difficulty in playing
up to the drama’s requirements when the scene-
painter doesn’t take all the trouble off their hands.
“A Royal Divorce” was relieved by a rather
audacious ballet on Saturday. One of the
girls who danced the quadrille in the Tuilleries
Garden was apparently out for an airing.
Every time she set to partners a broad ex-
E arise of skin-colored tights was displayed
y the slit in her loose gown, which garment
amounted to practically the same thing as a
night-gown when the lady lifted her right leg
heavenwards to give the boys a pale-pink treat.
“Much Ado About Nothing” is on the way
towards production at Her Majesty’s, but mean-
while “Twelfth Night” has earned a reputation
for being very much the best achievement of the
season thus far. Therefore, if the management is
wise it will revive “Twelfth Night” before
resorting to “Much Ado.” But managements
are rarely as wise as they think themselves.
»* * *
Buchanan’s “ Mariners of England,” now
afloat under the Anderson colors at Melb. Royal,
makes considerable concessions to common sense.
The breezy fable depicts nothing absolutely out-
side the pale of possibility. Its villains had sound
social and business motives for their crimes ; its
love-passages, enacted in sunshine and storm, are
brightened at the blackest by a ray of hope,
whereas in ordinary melodrama the lover and his
lass struggle and splutter, throughout in seas of
desolation, emerging only in the final scene, when
the hero invariably mentions that the clouds have
rolled away. All the same, “the Mariners” are
familiar enough with adversity to keep beholders
awake, and somehow the gallery on Saturday
night was more infuriated against the moderately
malicious villain than if he had been a fatal
chloroformer of the deepest Andersonian dye. In
Buchanan’s hands, the victims of vice, less apt
than some to tumble into trouble through their
own chronic idiocy, get more pity from beholders ;
hence, perhaps, the cat-calls of the gods.
* * * *
The plot meanders round the attempted
assassination of Nelson, who goes ashore to visit a
blind Admiral (Stirling Whyte), and is felled by
ruffians in the pay of Geo. Carey, a traitorous
naval person in pleasing clothes. R. Inman, the
Ralph Rackstraw of the period, gets wrongfully
acoused of the crime, and is court-martialled ;
but Inman’s innocence scores, as usual, for the
sake of Miss Duggan, and they live happily ever
afterwards on his revenues as the blind Admiral’s
long-lost son. Everyone in the piece who
doesn’t “ live happily ever afterwards ” dies
gloriously at the grand, spectacular battle of
Trafalgar, with the one exception of Carey.
Even Carey is becoming in the manner of his
decease, for he blows out his brains to save his
honor when his sin has found him out. Willard,
though got up to look shockingly old and decrepit
for a hero who died at 46, makes Nelson a satis-
factory blend of ancient ladies’-man, pietist, and
lion of the sea, and expires angelically in decollete
white underwear. The jingo Trafalgar tableau is
worth going to see “on its own,” and Willard’s
Nelson, though over etherealised, is better than
Barrett’s Christian Alfred, anyhow.
* * * *
Miss Duggan, the blind Admiral’s niece,
has quite a careless time compared with her
average stage lot. Her sailor-boy is tried for his
life, certainly; but, strange to say, no one murders
her blind uncle, assails her reputation, or casts
her to the mercies of homicidal maniacs. Ada
Guildford, deserted by the villain, dies of a
broken heart, a comparatively easy death. Bert
Bailey, as a petticoated fisherman, fools cheerfully
on dry-comedy lines ; while little Ethel Buckley,
as Poll of the Lobster Smack, suggests shrimps
rather than lobsters. Other features of the
“ Mariners’ ” pie are the picturesque Smugglers’
Cave, moonlight on the cliffs, fishing villagers
prancing on the shore, and a tuneful orchestra.
** * *
The World’s Entertainers are returning to
Melb. Bijou next Saturday for the purpose of
presenting “sixteen star acts,” each of which has
advt. value equal to the price charged for admis-
sion. Some of these will be the acts of Salerno,
the Juggler, and the other people who glittered at
the Bijou a while ago. The new luminaries will
be Rose Hamilton, Ada Willoughby, the Dusky
Professor, Bunth and Rudd, &c., and the opinion
of travelled persons re the greatness of the whole
Constellation is confidently invited by business-
manager Harry Musgrove.
** * *
At the Opera House the re-arrival of the
opposition co. is to be celebrated in a fitting
manner by a burst of new attractions. Wootwell,
likewise Fagan and his charming Byron retire
from the old bill this week, leaving Davy’s
marionettes, the Casellis, the Net-Balleens, etc.,
to cover their retreat, but the vacant spaces will
be more than filled by some latest arrivals from
America —Mr. and Mrs. Tom Nawn and Co.,
including Miss Nawn, and Mr. and Mrs. Sydney
Drew and Co.—who are respectively said to be
Irish comedians and sassiety sketch artists of the
greatest order. Also Peggy Pryde is due to sing
again on Saturday, and Peggy, like her aforesaid
partners in eminence, will appear at the Saturday
matinee.
** * *
The matinee-benefit to Tom Kennedy will
take place, at Her Majesty’s, next Friday (30th),
under the patronage of numerous personages. All
the local shows have volunteered contributions to
the programme, and the advt. reads very like a
guarantee of a crowded house for this most
deserving occasion.
** * *
Adelaide Royal, free for the first time for
two years from the rivalry of the Tivoli, has given
an enthusiastic welcome to the Broughs. Mrs.
8., as Lady Huntworth, has basted fowls and
gathered parsley for a week, and Leslie Victor has
scored heavily as the dissolute nobleman who
denies the right of any parson, being unmarried,
to talk about Hades as if he knew the country.
Ward and Brough are as sound and reliable as
ever. At present the uniforms of “The Second
in Command ” pervade the stage and thrill the
female heart, which has of late had to put up with
mere kharki.
The Wild Cat Column.
Just a few days after N.S.W. Treasurer
Waddell had assured the public that there was no inten-
tion of floating a loan at present, a loan of £3,000,000 was
dumped on the London market. (Treasurer Waddell
has since explained at great length that he was as
innocent as a fresh-laid pumpkin of any intention to
deceive, and that the discrepancy is not real, only
apparent). It is a 3 per cent, loan, and has apparently
realised about £92 10s. Therefore, between this and the
£4,000,000 loan of last September, N.S.W. has incurred
£7,000,000 of debt and got about £6,350,000 for it. That
is to say, its credit is good enough to enable it to borrow
at a little below 3£ per cent., but it borrows at what is
practically £3 6s. 2d. per cent, and adds something like
£650,000 of the interest to the permanent debt! The very
least that a Government with a fraction of honesty in its
composition could do is to establish a sinking fund
sufficient to cover the amount of the discount on the
loan—the amount which is really interest added to the
principal of the debt. As there is very little honesty about
Australian Governments or Parliaments, however, that is
too much to expect. Parliaments are mostly in the help-
less condition of James Ashton, M.L.A., who explained
recently that he had entered the Assembly with ideals,
but had speedily dropped them, realising that reform
must come from without. Which is another version of
the lazy and useless theory that the Government isn’t
expected to do right unless Parliament forces it to do so,
and Parliament isn’t expected to do anything unless the
people force it by violent and frantic agitation.
This loan makes a net addition of over £7,000,000
to the N.S.W. public debt inside 12 months. It raises
that debt, if all liabilities are reckoned, to about
£78,000,000— something over £57 per inhabitant. The
private wealth of N.S.W. is estimated at some £50,000,000
less than it was in 1890, and the debt is about £34,000,000
more than it was in 1890. Therefore, the boshy narrative
about the loans being wisely applied to develop the
resources of the country had better be dropped. The
question that is always waiting to be answered is—how
long can this process go on without something breaking?
The debt grows faster than the population. In 28 years,
N.S.W. has owed more per inhabitant every year than it
did the year before, and the other States have done the
same. Every year, too, it has more unproductive debt
per inhabitant. And, as the present loan has been spent
in advance, and more—it isn’t sufficient by fully £500,000
to repay the money borrowed from trust-funds to keep
the loan account going—it leaves N.S.W. with no money
at all to go on with, except by borrowing the trust-funds
again. The net railway revenue is falling off —for the
first nine months of this financial year it is £79,000 less
than for the first three-quarters of last year. And it is
announced that, despite all the extra revenue obtained
under the Commonwealth tariff, the year is likely to end
with a deficit of £150,000 or £200,000. This, it is ex-
plained, is owing to the drought—but, then, the deficit is
always owing to something. It will make the 16th deficit
in 23 years. What does N.S.W. think of the situation?
* * * »
One source of wealth which has dropped out
almost completely, and almost unnoticed, is that which
is derived from immigration. For many years, it was
reckoned that about £1,000,000 was brought into Aus-
tralia every year by immigrants—not the assisted variety,
nor Kanakas, niggers, or destitute Italian laborers, but
comparatively affluent settlers, mostly attracted by the
tail-end of the gold legend. N.S.W. gained a large share
of this, but now N.S.W., Victoria, and S.A. are all losing
by emigration, and money tends to go out instead of
coming in.
« * * *
During the last 10 years up to 1900 the N.S.W.
Government borrowed about £20,000,000 to “ develop
the resources of the country.” And this process of
development by getting further into debt panned out so
badly that whereas in 1890 the total private wealth of
N.S.W. was estimated at £410,500,000 (£368 per inhabi-
tant), in 1900 it was estimated by the same authority
(State Statistician Ooghlan) at £356,350,000 (£261 per
inhabitant). The people who died in N.S.W. during the
year ended 30th June, 1900, left less property behind
them than the people who died in any other year since
1891. And with this decrease of wealth the people had
to pay close on £500,000 a year more in 1900 than in 1890
for interest on loans. Where does the Government think
this kind of “ development ” by loans is going to lead to ?
The good old drought explanation doesn’t anything like
cover the downfall, for the value of live stock only
diminished by about £5,000,000 (from £34,000,000 to
£29,000,000), and the total downfall represents £54,000,009
* * * *
The Bank of New South Wales :
T> Added to Total
Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
Sept., 1897 1,216,565
March, 1898 88,128 9 p.C. = 87,750 378 1,216,943
Sept., 1898 88,042 9 „ „ 87,750 292 1,217,235
March, 1899 88,738 9 „ „ 87,750 988 1,218,223
Sept., 1899 89,544 9 „ „ 87,750 1,794 1,220,017
March, 1900 99,859 9 „ „ 90,000 9,859 1,229,876
New Share Premiums 46,404 1,276,280
Sept., 1900 100,463 10 „ „ 100,000 463 1,276,743
March, 1901 100,153 10 „ „ 100,000 153 1,276,896
Sept., 1901 104,647 10 „ „ 100,000 4,647 1,281,543
March, 1902 115,507 10 „ ~ 100,00015,507 1,297,050
The earnings represent £7 os. lOd. per cent, per annum on
the shareholders’ capital and reserves as at the beginning
of the half-year (capital, £2,000,000; reserve fund,
£1,281,543; total, £3,281,543).
As a rule, there is very little to he said about
the Bank of New South Wales. It is one of the monu-
ments of Australian finance—it might almost be described
as the boss monument. Its position is so uniformly
favourable that criticism isn’t called for and comment is
monotonous. The main points are that the note circula-
tion stands at £976,820; deposits are £21,464,248; re-
serve of cash and liquid securities, £7,659,066— equal’to 30


as
TRAMWAYS. TRAMWA.YS.
The Central Mining &; Tramway Appliances Prop. Ltd.
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
Representing OREHSTEIN & KOPPEL LTD., of LONDON and BERLIN,
Cquip Complete TRAMWAYS and supply Every Description of Tramway Material.
Locomotives from 10 to %50 h.p.
STOCKS IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE include Rails and Accessories, Steel Sleepers,
Turntables, Switches, Side Tipping Trucks, Steel Wheels, &e. Technical advice gratuitously
rendered. Flying and Permanent Surveys arranged. Illustrated Catalogues and Photo-
graphic Albums showing Tramways constructed in different parts of the World, upon
application. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager.
A lO6 Queen-street, Melbourne,
having returned from his visit to England, is
now prepared to purchase approved Mines and Mining:
Properties situated in any part of Australasia re-
quiring: Capital for Development and Machinery.
Only genuine and legitimate ventures, capable of bearing
the strictest examinations, will be entertained.
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big- prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject toinspection. Cable address: “Option,”
Melbourne. *
* * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, andall sorts of iron-work.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlgreagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * » •
See for yourself. The Australian Medical
Gazette of January, 1891, compares Zetz Spa to the cele-
brated Vichy waters of France, and states that it is
valuable for gout, rheumatism, gravel, catarrh of the
bladder, diabetes, dyspepsia, splenic and hepatic dis-
orders.
* * * »
Vanning Tables.—The very newest and what
gives exceedingly fair promise of superseding all other
tables is the machine known as the Wesley-Baird Vanning
Table. The table is of South Australian invention, and
has given excellent results on Broken Hill ores and ores
containing pyrites, carbonate of copper and tin. Like all
tables, the best work is done on “ fines,” and more espe-
cially when the product is properly classified. The
Central Mining and Tramway Co., of 424 Little Collins-
street, Melbourne, and 40 Hunter-street, Sydney, are the
sole agents in the Eastern States. The table has a capa-
city up to 30 tons per day.*
* * • *
Press men are proverbially hard to convince,
but at a trial of the new American patent Hydro-Carbon
(Gasloline) Blowpipes and furnaces, given by" Mr. Ernest
De Beer, 439 Bourke-street, Melb., even cast-ire n
scepticism was dissolved when it saw cast-iron itself easily
melted by this wonderful furnace, which should prove
invaluable to all assayers.*
* * * *
The Boulder mines have, on an average, 50 per
cent, of the shafts and pans of their Griffin mills broken
monthly by unexploded dynamite finding its way into
the mills. The wear and tear and loss of time for repairs
are enormous and must increase treatment-cost several
shillings a ton. If the new patent explosive compound
(Rendrock) were used this expense would be avoided
because even if this explosive got into the machines it
would not explode. Rendrock gives off no smoke or
fumes. Particulars will be furnished by the Sole
Proprietor, N. Guthridge "Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne,
Fremantle, Wellington.*
* • ♦ *
The Commercial World, August, 1901, writes
re The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society, Limited :
“ It is primarily a progressive institution, its contracts
are liberal, and, moreover, its financial position is every-
thing which could be desired.”*
The Wilfley Concentrator, which was patented
and introduced to Australia some three years ago, has
met with most phenominal success, and is now to be
found in almost every up-to-date mill in all the States,
particularly Kalgoorlie and Broken Hill, where every
mine of importance is using them. Similar success has
been met with in every mining centre of the world, some
5000 of the tables having been sold. Its success has led
to numerous imitations and infringements of the Wilfley
patent. Lately the Company obtained an injunction and
damages against the Cammett machine and users thereof,
their patents being confirmed by the American supreme
Court, and other of the imitations have since been taken
off the market. The Syndicate owning the patents in
Australia has decided to prosecute all infringements, and
action has now been taken in this direction in Victoria,
users being equally liable with vendors of infringments.
They should exercise caution in dealing only with the
sole manufacturers, the Austral Otis Engineering
Company, South Melbourne, or their authorised agents. *
* * * *
Rumored Capt. Rodda of Associated Northern
(W.A.) asked to succeed Mr. Hewitson as manager of
Associated. Rodda is a first-class mine boss, but the
Associated will beat him—or anyone else.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Under license from the A.G.C. of A. Ld.
SPOT or FORWARD. LOWEST PRICES.
Storage can be arranged.
HY. MARKWALD,
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Auckland,
Dunedin and Wellington.
per cent, of all liabilities to the public. Of this reserve
nearly £1,700,000 is in Government securities. The posi-
tion is a splendidly solid one all round. As a side issue,
the chairman mentions that the bank has very
money advanced in the Western Division of N.S.W., and
against such advances as there are, provision has 1° »
since been made—which presumably means that reserves
have been made against them sufficient to provide tor a
complete writing-off. Every bank which is in a position
to do so hastens to mention to its shareholders that it has
cleared out of the West, as far as making advances is con-
cerned, and has no intention of going back there, lhe
Lord only knows whom the West will borrow from now.
* * * *
The Tasmanian Permanent Executors and
Trustees Association (Launceston, Tasmania) :
Dividends Added Total
Profits. and to Re-
- Dividend Tax. Reserves, serves.
March, 1896 .. £494 C p.c. = £3OO £194 £573
Sept., 1896 ..117 5 „ „ 262 Nil 428
March, 1897 .. 237 5 „ „ 262 Nil 403
Sept., 1897 ..264 5 „ „ 262 £2 405
March, 1898 .. 387 5 „ „ 262 125 630
Sept., 1898 ..405 5 „ „ 262 143 673
March, 1899 ..317 5 „ „ 263 54 727
Sept,, 1899 ..376 5 „ „ 263 113 840
March, 1900 ..454 5 „ „ 262 192 1032
Sept., 1900 ..398 5 „ „ 263 135 1167
March, 1901 .. 760 6 „ „ 315 445 1612
Sept., 1901 .. 523 6 „ „ 315 208 1820
March, 1902 .. 465 6 „ „ 315 150 1970
The large and sudden improvement of 1901 has not been
maintained. Still the Tasmanian Permanent Executors
and Trustees Association is earning a respectable divi-
dend : its reserves continue to grow in a moderate way ;
and there is no present sign of the ill-luck that befell
the co. in September, 1896, and March, 1897, being re-
peated.
* * • *
Sydney Municipal Council, which put up its
rate for one year to 2s. in the £, reduces it again to
Is. lOd. It is reckoned that at this figure there will be a
deficit for the current year of £777, which is not very
much, but still it marks the beginning of a return to the
old, wretched practice of deliberately incurring deficits
for the sake of cutting down taxation. The estimated
revenue is £256,027 and expenditure £256,804. Instead
of allowing even a small shortage to arise, Sydney and all
suburban municipalities should just now be making an
extra special effort to wipe off their old debts. If a
Greater Sydney Council is established, as now seems pos-
sible, with large powers to effect improvements, it will
want more money, in order to start the work of making
Greater Sydney a clean, modern, up-to-date capital. Then
the city’s great unproductive debt made up through the
accumulation of bygone deficits will be found grievously
in the way.
¥ * ¥ *
The Swan Brewery Co., of Perth (Westralia),
but owned, like the Silverton Tramway and the Denili-
quin and Moama ’’lilway, and so many other good
things, in Melbourne :
Dividends Total
Profits. per “ en Re-
annum. ‘ serves.
Sept., 1897 .. £47,387
March, 1898. .£24,048 177 p.c. =£39,312 32,123
Sept., 1898.. 13,171 Nil £3297 41,997
March, 1899.. 17,709 12 p.c. = £4565 8984 46,157
Sept., 1899.. 9,762 16 „ „ 6087 4717 45,115
March, 1900.. 15,971 16 „ „ 6087 3517 51,482
Sept., 1900.. 16,861 20 „ „ 7609 2579 58,155
March, 1901.. 17,031 20 „ „ 7609 1547 66,030
Sept,, 1901 .. 15,092 24 ~ ~ 9131 1345 70,646
March, 1902.. 20,483 24 „ ~ 9131 554 81,444
The Swan Brewery 00. is having a remarkably good time
while the boom lasts.
» * * *
The recent fall in the price of even the best
securities seems to suggest that, despite the See Govern-
ment’s lavish foreign borrowing, a scarcity of money is
setting in. N.S.W. State securities have dropped. So
have such stocks as the Bank of Australasia, Commercial
Banking Co. of Sydney, National Bank, Bank of N.S.W.,
Union Bank, Australian Mutual Fire Insurance, Mercan-
tile Mutual Insurance, United Insurance, Tooth’s Brewery,
and other gilt-edged scrip. Bank of New South Wales
had no sellers in Sydney on April 7 below £45 17s. 6d.
On May 21 they were offering at £4l. Between the same
two dates the drop in Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney
shares (sellers’ quotation) was from £5l 12s. 6d. to
£2B 17s. 6d. There was a slight recovery after
the 21st, but the drop is still very obvious.
The N.S.W. Government is still selling stock daily
at the Treasury, but even at 3J per cent, it only
raised £108,233 during April. This ought to be.abundant,
but £1,300,000 a year of loan money to spend doesn’t suit
the principles and ideas of the garish O’Sullivan. No 3
percent loans seem possible in N.S.W. just now. The
great foreign borrowing policy has only resulted, as
usual, in a huge increase of imports—an increase that is
out of all proportion to the growth of exports. Here are
some significant figures from that valuable work,
Coghlan’s “ Wealth and Progress of N.S.W.” :
Surplus
available to
Average imports Average exports pay interest
per annum. per annum. on foreign
liabilities
per annum.
1890-1894 £20,536,781 £22,692,220 £2,155,439
1895-1899 21,669,430 24,957,958 3,288,528
1900-1901 27,244,645 27,757,820 513,175
Coghlan estimates that N.S.W. has to pay £4,655,000 a
year as interest on its foreign debts, public and private,
which means that its exports should exceed its imports
by that amount. Therefore the steady process of going
further into debt is painfully visible. Huge foreign loans
only tend to increase imports, and the more we import
the less show is there for employment for the local pro-
ducer, so the curse works both ways at once.
¥ * * *
The Foreign-trade person works in his little
advertisement everywhere. The Insurance and Banking
Record remarks of the Cascade Brewery Co. (Hobart)
that “ the brewery trade, since a Freetrade tariff has
been adopted, has increased enormously, and 6 per cent,
dividends are now assured.” And the Federal tariff has
been taxing imported beer in bulk Is. per gallon, and in
bottle Is. 6d. per gallon, while local beer brewed from
barley, tnalt or hops pays 2d., and other kinds 3d.—
protection to the local article 9d. to Is. 4d. per gallon.
As against his English or American competitor the
Federal tariff gives the Tasmanian brewer a lot more
Protection than he used to have under his State tariff,
the difference between the old Tasmanian customs and
the old Tasmanian excise being only 6d. per gallon on
bulk and Is. per gallon on bottled. And with this extra
Protection, which the Record calls a Freetrade tariff,
things have begun to look up in Tasmania.
« * » »
The abridged prospectus of the Canadian Real
Ice Skating Co. (Melbourne) is a humorous thing. It is
proposed to construct a skating rink with a real ice floor,
and also to sell ice to the public, or, in the prospectus’s
own words : “ The company is to be formed for the pur-
pose of purchasing from the vendor and promoter, for the
consideration hereafter mentioned, all options, rights,
contracts, or arrangements obtained or made, or to be
obtained or made, by him in connection with the acquisi-
tion of a site for a skating rink, the erection of a skating
rink with an ice floor, and for the sale of ice, and cold
storage, if necessary.” The promoter (the prospectus, as
published in Australasian of 17/5/’o*2, doesn’t state who
he is, but one Maurice Goldburgh, Esq., appears to be
indicated) doesn’t seem to put in anything except the
idea and the option of buying or leasing a piece of ground
in Flinders-st., Melbourne, on which to build the real ice
rink. That isn’t much ; writer could get similar options
over nearly half Melbourne or Sydney if he wanted
them. The “ consideration hereafter mentioned” isn’t
mentioned at all in the advertisement above quoted,
so what the promoter is to get for his option
remains a mystery. The value of an option de-
pends largely on the price or rent to be paid for
the property optioned, or opted, or whatever the word
should be; some options are valuable and some
can hardly be given away. The prospectus alludes to
the alleged immense takings at some American real ice
rinks, which casts very little light on probable takings in
Australia. It also alludes to the large profits to be made
out of the sale of ice, which, as the Melbourne Fresh
Food and Frozen Storage Co. proposes to get rid of its
business at a huge loss, partly through inability to make
money out of ice, is less reassuring than it might be. It
is promised that the rink will be cool in summer (ice
generally is) but “ in the corresponding depth of winter
the necessary comforts and warmth will be maintained,”
which is a rather remarkable statement. What will
become of the ice if “ warmth is maintained ? ” It is also
stated, as if it was a powerful argument in favor of the
speculation, that the site over which the promoter has
the option of lease or purchase has been valued at £lOO to
£llO per foot, which only seems to suggest that the co.
will have to pay an awful amount of money for its
premises. And the co. asks for £50,000 capital!! There
are many interesting points about this ice business.
• * * *
The Riverina Frozen Meat Co. (Melbourne):
Written Total
March Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
1896 £2920 Nil .. £2920
1897 2429 Nil .. 5349
1898 ■ 1898 Nil £l3OO 6947
1899 197 Nil 648 6598
1900 2578 Nil .. 8176
1901 7413 Nil 998 14,591
1902 267 Nil 676 14,182
This co. makes very reasonable progress despite the bad
times. The net earnings have been more than sufficient to
pay a 10 per cent, dividend every year, if the manage-
ment had cared to dissipate them in that fashion instead
of building up the concern. At the same time the
violent fluctuations in the earnings show how precarious
the business is. Probably the war had something to do
with the huge and unexpected-looking profit made in 1901.
* * • *
M.A.B. : Our opinion of that concern, so far as
it was possible to form one from the scanty information
available, was published in Bulletin of 21st September,
1901. Have you any balance-sheets for 1897 and any
previous years, and, if so, would you forward them ? So
far as obtainable evidence eoes, the concern has been in a
very bad way, but is gradually improving.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
“Partner”: There is no rule in a case like
that. It depends on whether you are going to be a
sleeping or active partner, and if latter, on the value of
your services, also on how long business has been estab-
lished, how long it has been returning a good profit,
whether profit is increasing or diminishing, and various
other things—including character of proposed partner.
• ¥ ¥ ¥
“ Woman Shareholder ” : Nothing has been
heard of Hannan’s Pride of the Valley since the reported
death of the whip-horse. Co.’s hopes apparently died
with the horse. Scrip worthless.
••• ■ *
“Darby”: If Mt. David (N.S.W.) has a hope
it is in testing deeper ground. If directors were to apply
profits from cyanide plant to sinking 200 or 300 ft. shares
might be worth holding.
* • • *
The bald announcement in Melbourne last week
that a well-known firm, name withheld, was about to be
prosecuted for alleged income-tax evasion, seems to have
created great unrest in many reputable business quarters.
The taxation officers were besieged all day by furtive
scouts of commercial houses, uneasily seeking to discover
the firm implicated, and had it not been that the name
was disclosed that afternoon, some highly respected
business men would have passed very sleepless nights.
As it is, the income-tax people have directed their
suspicions upon more than one esteemed person whose
word has hitherto passed as law.
» » *
Chief-Justice Griffith decided for the plaintiffs
in the big cyanide-patent case. According to His Honor’s
interpolations, it looked that way from the start. £5OOO
costs were asked for and £1250 given ; but the legal light
was a very expensive flame, and even if the case stops at
this point Gent One, &c., will collect two or three
thousand.
* • • •
Mr. W. J. Hogan, of Cobar, writes with refer-
ence to a paragraph from “Cobarite” (8., 24/5/’O2), to
state that it is not correct, as represented, that the In-
spector of Mines for the district has called upon the
Occidental 00. to brace its open cut with timber, and
that the charges assumed tc have been made against the
Inspector (who, he remarks, is an experienced mine-
manager) are altogether baseless. Mr. Hogan also in-
forms us that the allegations with respect to the Great
Cobar mine (that the Inspector has refused to allow the
pillar-system and favors the disused workings being filled
with slag) are false, and that the comments in the para-
graph, as a whole, are quite unwarranted. The Bulletin
regrets that it has been misinformed. It had no
desire to cast any reflection on the officer referred to,
and it did not, as Mr. Hogan asserts, allege that he had no
practical mining experience ; this denial of the statements
made is willingly published. With reference to the Occi-
dental, it must be stated that, for some time past, it has
been common talk on Sydney Stock Exchange and in
mining circles, that the slump in the value of the shares
was solely attributable to orders which had been given
by the inspector with respect to timbering. As Mr.
Hogan is chairman of this co., it is satisfactory to have
from him a contradiction of the report, which has
evidently been put in circulation by “bears.”
• • • •
B.H. Block 10 has made a profit of £5386 for
the half-year—not very much for a co. that made
£970,000 in the previous nine years, yet a good deal better
than the loss of £129 in the first half of last year. But
even the £5386 is not all mine profit ; that figure has been
reached by tacking on £2114 over-charged income-tax for
1900 and 1901, £4lO interest on reserve funds, £336 un-
claimed divs., and other small amounts. The actual
profit on working was £2519, allowing nothing for depre-
ciation. Allowing a fair thing for that, the profit was a
bit less than nothing. So far as shareholders are con-
cerned their one consolation may be that a good deal less
ore has been taken out of the mine than in any recent
period. The history of the last four half-years can he
fairly well shown like this :
To To To To
Sept., March, Sept., March,
1900. 1901. 1901. 1902.
Silver, per oz. .. 2/4 2/2 5-16 2/31 2/11-
Lead, per ton .. £l7/6/9 £l5/1/11 £l2/3/3 £ll/4/6
Net profit .. ..£51,747 £22,811 £129 £5386
Ore treated, tons .. 72,246 77,651 81,852 42,847
Concentrates, tons.. 11,566 13,332 13,676 7851
Silver per ton, ore . i 14*560z. 14*580z. 14*830z. 14*70z.
Lead per ton, ore .. 14*23% 15*32% 14*6% 15*31%
Costs per ton, ore .. £l/2/8 £l/3/1 £l/2/6 £l/0/10
Extraction, lead ..72-78% 72-89% 74-41% 77*32%
Extraction, silver .. 37*38% 39"8% 38*28% 41-72%
There are several satisfactory items in this. The most so
is the increase in the extraction of the metals ; though
still nearly three-fifths of the silver and a quarter of
the lead go over the dump. Next is a reduction of
costs, especially as it apparently has not been accom-
panied by a reduction of wages, poor enough for such
work in such a place. Miners on contract averaged
10s. 6fd. per shift; all miners, 10s. 2d. Costs, however,
are still very high. The South mines and mills for
14s. 9d. ; and 16s. is reckoned a fair thing elsewhere.
There is much room for labor-saving on surface by the
rearrangement of plant. As to outlook, it doesn’t dazzle
the eye. The ore-faces are, on the whole, better than
they were a few months back, but the shafts are taking a
lot of patching up to keep them at all workable, and day
and night, Sunday and every other day, the co. pushes
down its new main shaft. In ore-treatment, too, nothing
except of a negative character has happened to the co.
lately. The Odling magnetic processes are taking a rest
till Seddon, or somebody, puts up the price of lead and
zinc. “ Captain ” Warren, who has helped the mine to
pay £920,000 in divs. and bonuses (£9 4s. a share) in 10
years, leaves it this month. Stanley Low, a young Vic.
product, takes on the stiff contract of succeeding him.
•* * • *
A gentleman from way back in N.S.W. is the
proud owner of a gold-mine, reef 2ft. 6in. thick, ore said
to be worth from 2 to 6oz. per ton ; shaft down 145 ft. ;
and although it will be necessary to drive a crosscut 20ft.
ere the reef is intersected and the quality proved, he is
now in Sydney trying to sell, not the mine, but 20 tons
of ore at £3 per ton spot cash, goods to be delivered when
the reef is reached 1
* * * *
Day Dawn, Braidwood, N.S.W. : Floated a
few months ago by Austin Chapman (Federal Government
whip). Local reports state mine fabulously rich —12oz.
to the ton. If it goes even 12dwt. it ought to be a good
thing. Battery now being erected. Development work
allegedly being done to a great extent by Govt., which is
said to be contributing £2 16s. per ft. towards cost of
sinking shaft. A few pertinent questions put to the
Mines Minister in Parliament ought to elicit some in-
teresting information—particularly so to struggling mine
owners, who, not knowing the run of departmental ropes,
are refused a share of the prospecting vote.
* * * *
Mt. Lyell half-yearly report shows that on
working account there was a credit balance of £87,660,
but after deducting £19,000 for depreciation and other
items, a net profit of £53,000 is shown. The amount paid
in divs. out of the half-year’s earnings was £75,625, so
that the writing-off of £19,000 for depreciation is a mere
book-keeping entry, which means taking it out of one
pocket and putting it into another. The report gives no
information as to the profits made from smelting ore for
other co’s. It is stated that 32,411 tons of public ore were
treated, but beyond this there is studied evasion, no data
whatever being given on which to make any calculation.
But assuming that the Mt. Lyell charges were modera-
tion itself as compared with other co’s.’ tariffs, there
would have to be gross mismanagement somewhere if
this work did not return a net profit almost equal
to the whole amount credited to working account after
making the deductions indicated. It is quite certain that
the ordinary operations of the co. on its own ores were
carried on at a very small margin of profit, and now that
the outside source of income is at an end through the
termination of the N. Lyell contract, it cannot be said
that the prospects of Mt. Lyell are extra rosy. _ Although
copper has shown an inclination to rise within the past
fortnight, the present price is 30s. per ton lower than the
average price ruling during the half-year under review.
The future of the mine itself is purely a matter of con-
jecture. Mr. Sticht is without question the ablest ad-
ministrator who has had charge of any Australian mining
enterprise. He is noted for being as cautious as he is
able, but, allowing for this, can anyone read this extract
from his general report without coming to the
conclusion that he entertains some doubts as to
what will happen, as it must be always borne
in mind that the success or failure of the co. will
depend on developments in the deep levels ? “ While the
open-cut ore smelter per day for the half-year has aver-
aged 712 tons, the underground ore has averaged 35.4
tons daily— the small quantity of the latter being due to
the erratic nature of the enrichments, together with the
depleted condition of the stopes. At present there is
still a certain amount of ore left standing in the stopes at
No. 7 level and No. 5 level north drive, but these are old
workings and probably nearing early exhaustion. Momen-
tarily the downward continuations of the No. 7 level stopes
towards No. 8 level are the only known reserves of rich
ore of any promise, but there are no data to surmise the
extent from. There is general geological evidence in
favor of the occurrence of similar enrichments at No. 8
level and below. Exploration work is not yet, however,
sufficiently far advanced to afford grounds for the assump-
tion of the certain presence of the same.”
Up to the end of April last Mt. Lyell had pro-
duced 39,698 tons of copper, 3,268,0160 z. silver and
125,4980 z. gold, the approximate value of which would be
£3,500,000. The amount distributed in dividends was
£869,386, or about 25 per cent, of the product. The sub-
scribed capital of the co. was £825,000, added to which
there was £191,000 premium on shares sold, making the
total capital practically over £1,000,000. Assuming that
divs. are continued at the same rate as for the last half-
year, it will take the co. another year to return the
original capital.
* • * *
Western, Zeehan : History of this co. shows
necessity for making it compulsory for mining co.’s to
establish reserve funds. Out of product valued at
£428,000 co. paid £102,000 in divs. Development work
became necessary ; not a penny to credit; calls made and
paid on only 17-60ths of shares ; overdraft, £2500 ; mine,
which has fair prospects, closed down. Had 5 per cent,
of the profits, as earned, been set aside for progressive
work shareholders would not have noticed it, and work
would now be proceeding with almost a certainty that, in
a short time, the producing and profit-earning stage
would again be reached.
* » * *
New Churn Railway (Bendigo) : Work at this
mine should command attention of mining men all the
world over, “ Most encouraging indications ” met with
3700 ft. from surface. No doubt about reef-channel
having been intersected, and a few weeks will determine
whether or not there is pay ore. This is the greatest
depth at which prospecting for gold is being carried on
anywhere. Victoria Quartz, on the same line, driving at
nearly the same depth ; but should they find a forma-
tion there it would, stratigraphically, be fully 1000 ft.
above that which N.O.R. has met with, as, in addition to
V.Q. being at a higher altitude than N.0.R., the ore-
bodies pitch from the latter northerly towards the former.
Discovery of pay-ore in N.O.R. will cause a big revival at
Bendigo, and will probably induce Geo. Lansell to deepen
his 180 shaft to 5000 ft.—a work which he has frequently
expressed a desire to accomplish. The long-standing
drainage trouble having been amicably arranged, there is
now no obstacle to block the ambitious enterprise.
• » » •
Tartana (N.Q.): “Now reluctantly admitted
in high quarters to be the biggest, withal richest, copper-
ore deposit known in Australasia. The tangle is out and
the inevitable is happening—the mine is talking. Enor-
mously wealthy men handled relatively poor mines in
Chillagoe and Mt. Garnet. There is only a change of
words to illustrate the Tartana proposition—a poor man
is handling a relatively enormously wealthy group of
mines.” Thus writes the sec., and he ought to know.
* * * *
A section of London press severely slates John
Waddington for playing shuttlecock with Ida H. (W.A.)
scrip, in which, said press pretends to have implicit confi-
dence. Scribes evidently unaware that 300 ft. or lowest
level, is driven in very poor zone, about which investors
will duly hear when “ insiders ” have got out on top
floor.
» * * *
Queen Margaret, Bulong (W.A.), has taken six
months option over South Gippsland mine, Vosperton.
The property was recently sampled by Margaret bosses.
* * * *
Island Eureka’s April yield pans out at 150 oz.
from 310 tons, a very good result from a small show.
Announcement of divs. does not receive sufficient pub-
licity. So long as foregoing average can be maintained
3d. a month div. is assured.
¥ •* ¥ ¥
As predicted, Westralia Waihi makes another
6d. call, and, to make holders pay up, directors issue
usual tales of four reefs of aggregate width of 20ft. of
good battery stone. It was once reported that there was
an lift, lode in No. 1 (now main shaft) which writer failed
to discover on inspection.
* * * m
W.F. Main Reefs South (W.A.) first crushing
shows 19oz. from 40 tons. Management alleges result
satisfactory, as parcel contained 30 per cent, mullock,
but omits to state that the stone was hand-picked over a
period of three years—also, the published assay-result
“ averaged loz. per ton.” Stone now in sight said to be
worth 30 to 40 dwt., but this can’t be taken seriously.
The show looks suspiciously like a “ stringer-on.”
North Kalgurli (W.A.) now cutting plats at so-
called 1000 ft. level to connect with workings from Brook-
man’s Boulder. The manager now in charge is of no use
to market-manipulators, and on his record will give in-
vestors a run for their money, if anything payable in
mine, which is doubtful.
Lancefield (W.A.), recently mopped up by
Bewick Moreing and Co., publishes'April return as 7320 z.
from 1774 tons, including tailings. This pans out at
B*2dwt., yet it would seem that it is designed to float it
as a 13dwt. show. Since inception, mine’s average has
been from 7to Bdwt. Mill return accounts for 3dwt., and
balance comes from cyaniding. Quality of gold poor.
Brown Hill (W.A.) April return published afl
62890 z. from 2110 tons. Although the ounces are only
8 less than for March, the average is sdwts. per ton lower.
No particulars of costs, values of reserves, etc., are given,
nor as to what has become of the proceeds of the 50,0000 z.
of gold won since last div. of Aug. ’Ol. Unkind people
insinuate that the money was invested in Oroyas at high
figures to force an amalgamation.
m * * *
Hannan’s Oroya (W.A.) return given as 21260 z.
from 2285 tons. As milling charges and carting are said
to run away with 465. a ton, the benefit to co., after
deducting mining costs, must be more imaginary than
real. Continuation of Iron Duke chute seems to be a regu-
lar will-o’-the-wisp in its capacity of dodging pursuit.
* * • »
Cosmopolitan (W.A.) got through 4950 tons for
55120 z., but shares are weakly held, and can be banged
by bears at their own sweet will. To date mine produced
57,9800 z. from 52,692 tons. Gross value, £200,733, or £3
9s. per oz. Concentrates containing 1500 oz. were also
saved. Proceeds all expended in development and
equipment; no div. Proves folly of starting mines with
inadequate working funds.
* * * *
Perseverance still tops the list of W.A. pro-
ducers with 15,8700 z., closely followed by Golden Horse-
shoe with 15,4850 z. Golden Horseshoe had to put in 1300
tons of soz. ore to get yield. With extra stamps going
the Horseshoe, in future, will avoid this and top the list
of producers.
¥ * • *
Cumberland Niagara (W.A.), adjoining Cosmo-
politan, makes brave showing for April with 718 tons for
8390 z. This hardly describes position, as nearly four-
fifths of the stuff put through was tailings. How-
ever, mine has now got Cosmopolitan’s Englishman lode,
and prospects are considerably brighter.
* • * *
Long Reef, Lennonville (W.A.), like its stable
companion, East Murchison United, has come to grief.
Both properties worked out for want of developments,
and co’s. now saddled with new ventures. Probably both
good for a rise in consequence.
» * * *
Menzies Alpha (W.A.) treated 388 tons for
5040 z. Property immediately adjoins Lady Shenton on
south, and her four pay-chutes slip into Alpha at angle
of 45 deg. Sooner or later property will com •to front.
Shenton has treated over 60,U00 tons for 120,0000 z.
Workings of two properties are connected below.
* * * *
Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) 50-head mill ran 30
days during April, treating 7563 tons for 47950 z. Duty
per stamp per day worked out at 5 tons. Shares dropped
below £l, which gives a faint idea of what insiders think
of mine’s prospects. Co. may likewise be saddled with
fresh properties in due course, though already owning
611 acres, besides three hopeless-looking leases under
option for 7000 shares.
* » * *
Euro (W.A.) treated 2310 tons for 11560 z.
during April, but, as 40-head mill only ran 21 days, state
of co.’s ore-reserves may be easily imagined. Usual folly
of erecting mill without adequate developments.
» * » *
Lady Gladys (W.A.) just treated 900 tons for
29940 z. at Mull'ne public battery. Mine still owned by
prospectors, who have held on for some six years and
since the starting of the Govt, battery have been well
repaid for labors. Mulline possesses many mines and no
foreign capital.
* * • *


OVERCOATS..
OS
IN Melton Cloth 29/6
Black Vicuna 35/-
Venetian Cloth 47/6
Rgady for Inprpcdiatg Wear,
PAVID JONESCO.
ORIENT CLOTHIERS,
George # Barrack Sts., Sydney.
h
H
A
RR
I
NG
T
0
N’S
£6O
CASH PRIZES
COMPETITIONS
CLOSE
15th
JUNE.
SCHEDULE FORM From
HARRINGTON & GO., LTD.,
66 KING STREET, SYDNEY
93 QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
CRAVEN & CO., 170 Collins St., Melbourne ; P. ASH, Hobart.
DON’T PUT OPP
ANY LONGER.
SEND PRINTS
AT ONCE.
SOCIETY
Loch (Yic.) was the first Governor who
demoralised Australians by a too lavish expendi-
ture at Govt. House. It was his first important
appointment, and he was anxious to make a
success of it. When Hopetoun followed, feeling
that he had a record to break, he spent £22,000 a
year on the guzzlers and gorgers who infested his
halls, giving them frozen fish and pheasant from
’Ome, as well as the best brands of champagne.
That was a long jump from old-time Gov.
Hotham’s historic sandwiches and she-oak, but
the sassiety loafers only looked upon it as a right.
Poor Hopetoun pathetically refers in his cable to
the Secretary of State to the “extraordinary re-
sponsiveness of the people throughout Australia ”
when he landed as Governor-General. The “re-
sponsiveness ” was mostly a lively sense of favors
to come. The frantic cheerers did not expect him
to ask for an increase of salary ; they were stimu-
lated by the prospect of additional outlay from
his private purse. There will be sorrow in some
quarters now that the goose with the golden eggs
has been slain. Anyway, a salary of £lO,OOO a
year is ample for a Governor-General who does
not consider it a part of his duty to gorge the
swell loafers of the dominion over which he
presides.
* * * *
Lord Hopetoun’s resignation will hasten
the end of the present farcical State-Governor
system. At South Melbourne, last week, the
local councillors were bewailing the Hopetoun
affair in loud ungrammatical language, when a
comparatively thoughtful member of the crowd
suggested that “a re-adjustment of the Gov.-
General’s allowances could have been achieved by
a retrenchment of the minor offices of State
Governors.” This was at least better than a plea
for the Bill which Parliament rejected, though
the speaker didn’t try to show reason why the
major office of G.-G. may not be kept up
very decently on a definite £lO,OOO a year.
The most desirable way of enhancing the
value (in “dignity”) of the chief vice-regal
position is the economical way. Let the
State Governor be a local man, performing the
simple political duties of his position for the same
A CHANCE YET.
HED P A: “ And so you sold that for thirty guineas! My friend, if you will abandon Art and
join our firm as a salesman it will do much to mitigate my hitherto rooted objection to
you as a son-in-law.”
salary that a Speaker receives. The Chief-Justice,
with £IOOO or £ISOO a year added to his plump
stipend, would be a suitable Governor, provided
he were forbidden to cultivate a large circle
of friends and make himself less exclusive than
every other judge ought to be. Then the Gov.-
General at £IO,OOO a year would loom larger than
he now appears in comparison with minor Gover-
nors. He’d have no rivals near his throne.
Better to be the only imported social star than the
brightest star among seven. All actors will agree
with that doctrine. And what is a Hopetoun but
an actor ?
» • * *
To celebrate the Coronation—feed the un-
employed. Heaven knows they will be plentiful
all over Australia this bitter winter. With the
drought murdering the pastoral and agricultural
industries, with big mines closing down, and with
a financial crisis threatening the various Govern-
ments and limiting the expenditure of money on
State works, there will be, indeed,a pitiful crowd
of them. Let, then, what money is to be spent go
in food, not gas and fireworks.
• * * •
Sydney University Union has done much
to retrieve the reputation of the students of the
institution by carrying (by a large majority and
amidst much cheering) a resolution protesting
against the agitation of the stupid, Tory, Mary
Jane papers, such as S.M. Herald and Sunday
Times, for the punishment of Professor Wood
on account of his anti-Gore views. This agita-
tion the Union condemns as “a serious
menace to liberty of speech.” Mr. K. Swan-
wick, in moving a resolution on the subject,
put the position in a nutshell when he pointed out
that there was no agitation against Professors
MacCallum and David for publicly expressing
their pro-Gore views, nor against Professor Pitt-
Cobbett for having taken an active part in the
Federal controversy. The resolution arrived at,
and the free acknowledgment of Professor
Wood’s patriotism, does honor to the University
Union; its members may not be able to see the
rights and wrongs of the war clearly, but
they have, at any rate, the instincts of free men.
* * * *
The cohentingenb craze begins to provide
a luxuriant crop of divorce proceedings. A typi-
cal case came before a court the other day.
One hero, having led an ordinarily peaceful and
domestic life with his spouse and children, was
suddenly smitten with the desire to go away and
help in the great cause of Beit and Cohen, and fell
away from grace under the seductive influence
of much delirious cuddling by miscellaneous
maidens. And, when he got back, covered with
glory and a great reputation as an expert farm-
burner, the hero, probably as the easiest way of
getting rid of wife and kids, confessed that he
wasn’t fit to associate with them because he had
lived the same kind of life as eight-tenths of his
fellowcohentingentershavebeen living in S’ Africa.
He had committed adultery there many times, and
“a kaffir woman was good enough for him,” and
likewise he had acquired drinking and gambling
habits, and committed other acts which he could
not mention to his wife. In virtue of these and
other merits of the same kind, the boss warriors
gave the gentleman an Imperial commission ; so
he is an officer and gentleman, even if, on his own
showing, he isn’t fit to be the husband of a decent
woman.
* * 0 *
Poetry and prose. Melb. Leader, in Feb.,
1901, printed a pathetic snapshot, entitled, “The
Soldier’s Farewell,” in which a departing cohen-
tingenter was shown kissing his sweetheart, just
before the sailing of the boat. The interesting
picture turned up in the District Court, t’other
day, as evidence in support of the claim for main-
tenance put in by the girl on behalf of the infant
which subsequently transpired. A letter from
the soldier “at the front” was also put in, in
which the writer said : “I hope the kid is like
me. ... If the war lasts long enough, I’ll make
him a soldier of the King.” The “ kid ” may see
service yet.
A working-man,
suburb, who recently
belonging to a Sydney
died of plague, had gone
four times for poison, with
which to destroy rats at
his employer’s house, and
then himself got infected
while on a message
to a Sussex-st. pro-
duce store.
THE TASK WAS BEYOND HER.
H E: "Didn't yer say before we was married
that yer thought yer could learn to love me? ”
SHE : “ I thought I could —but I can't. I’m not
clever enough.”
Brisbane Public Library was opened by
the Society gang, the other day. The Library is
evidently intended for Naice people, as it is to be
kept open only from 9 to 4 daily (while their un-
washed brethren are at work humping coal, &c.),
and closed during the hours that Dan, Jim, and
Mick are off the chain.
The proposal to build a consumptives’
hospital near Hornsby, Sydney, arouses bitter
opposition from residents of the district, many of
whom are themselves weak-chested. The Hornsby
hills, 600 to 700 ft. high, are excellent abiding-
places for phthisics, but the man who has gone
there with “ only a patch,” or “just a little weak-
ness,” doesn’t want to see 1000 or so desperate
cases quartered near by to prejudice his chances
of life. It is a selfish but entirely natural
feeling. Even the Picton (N.S.W.) people
are now protesting against the Thirlmere
Consumptives’ Home near by; and it is plain
that, to avoid discontent, the refuge for the
phthisical will have to be far removed from every
centre of population. There should be no diffi-
culty in securing a big, healthy area 10 miles from
everywhere; and a large community of consump-
tives, under proper management, could amuse
itself without requiring much intercourse with the
outer world. Medical men are endeavoring to
allay the fears of the Hornsby people by stating
that there would be “absolutely no danger ”from
the hospital. Yet one doctor, at the deputation
to Treasurer Waddell asking for the site, said that
two of the medical staff at Prince Alfred Hospital
had died from consumption, probably contracted
through the admission of phthisis cases to the
institute ! If the doctor, with all his precautions
and knowledge, is thus attacked, there is good
reason for public alarm. On the whole, N.S.W.
Gov t. had better place the consumptives’ hospital
on some isolated site, if only for the valuable edu-
cational effect such a precaution will have in
teaching the general public to beware of tuber-
culous infection.
The latest feature in Sydney suburbs is
the lady bottle-’o.
* * • •
It has been discovered that one-tenth of
the alleged property-owners who have
applied for compensation over the
Sydney land-resumptions have no
documentary title to the properties
they are supposed to own—ares imply
in possession through the death or
disappearance of the real owners.
In most cases these real owners
dropped out very long ago. It would
be interesting to find out what they
died of, or if the bodies were ever
found. Ten per cent of the titles is
a huge proportion to be based on the
dropping-out of former possessors—
especially in a suburb so conveni-
ently adjacent to the harbor.
.Possibly, when the Works
Department starts level-
ling the ground and
digging new founda-
tions it will find the
bones of some of these
lost proprietors, and
some may be dredged
up from the ooze of
the harbor when the
old wharves are shifted
and the mud of ages
disturbed underneath
them. c
* m
Years ago, when
the Mormons were
sending mission-
aries out here, a
i northern N.S.W.
resident got rid of
• a troublesome wife
rather neatly. Pro-
fessing conversion
to the Mormon
doctrines, he sold out
his possessions, and
with wife aforesaid, went
on board the steamer with
the other converts. Just as
the moorings were being cast off,
however, hubby, with all available
cash, rushed ashore on plea of having
forgotten something, and disappeared in the
crowd on the wharf. He didn’t come back, and
the lady went off in the steamer.
• * * *
Justice Williams must have established a
record in Melbourne last week when he put
dissatisfied couples through the divorce mill at
the rate of ten a day for several days. Most of
the cases were of the penny plain variety, but a few
were colored. One gentleman, who had “gone out
West,” and had been a trifle dilatory in sending
his wife the gold he didn’t get, finally broke off
relations in a letter informing the lady that—“l
feel I cannot care for you as I used to do. When
you would not write I wrote to a young lady in
Melbourne, and sent her money to come over to
me. She will live with me as my wife. She is a
respectable, well-connected girl. My mother has
seen her. To the best of my belief, she is abso-
lutely virtuous ; so you see she is not a bad
character.” Another respondent declined to
continue being a loving husband, just on
the spur of the moment as it were, but, to
fill the void thus created, thoughtfully brought
his wife some sea-gulls, dogs and a cat, and
desired her to waste her young affections on
them. Finally, he left her because she wore
a black dress. Another husband first roused
his wife’s suspicions by boring holes in the ser-
vant’s bedroom door, so as to watch her undressing.
He must have been a member of the Gimlet
Brigade. An extra special sample, found kissing
a lady friend, candidly owned up and requested
his wife to allow the other lady to come and live
with them. Also a really interesting person who
had made £BO,OOO on the Westralian goldfields,
took three several business trips to England, each
time bringing back a fresh “ companion,” who
had consoled him in his wife’s absence. It is not
surprising to learn that a few years later he was
a “broker,” and actually looked up his wife, who
was by then in “service,” to borrow money from
her. But all these giddy males were balanced by
the long-suffering person whose wife contracted a
confirmed habit of running after strange gods. He
possessed an infinity of patience, but when his
wife had run away 18 times with a large number
of different men, he said forgiveness had its limits,
and closed the door for good. Truly, they are a
quaint lot, these divorcees.
* • * •
Despite the order issued by Maoriland’s
Governor that only officers in full dress —scarlet
tunic, &c. —were to attend a recent Govt. House
ball, a few warriors abashedly turned up in ordi-
nary kharki. They were subsequently rebuked
by the G.0.C., and now the highly-exclusive Ist
Battalion of Auckland Infantry, which hasn’t any
gory togs, is clamouring for the blood-dyed sesame
to the sacred portals of the vice-regal ’Ome.
* * * *
W.C.T.U. people have taken up a “drink
cure.” Same old apo-morphia which you can
“ put in his tea ” when “ he” is misguided enough
to venture on tea. The cure, of course, will no
more cure a drunkard of drinking than a dog of
eating, and its free use would be likely to cause
more domestic unhappiness than even drunken-
ness.
WOMAN AND MAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I, that ache to he kissed,
And yearn for your strongest embrace,
You, who go where you list,
And leave neither shadow nor trace.
Woman! watching the years
Kaleidoscope vapid and slow;
Man ! with no time for tears,
Have you no heart for woe ?
ECHO.


The HANSARD Fountain Pen
(Authorised by Hansard Staff)
14ct. COLD NIB
Fine, Medium, or Broad Points.
One Quality—The Best; One Price—The Lowest, 7/6 (Post Paid).
h
Barrel of every Pen branded “ The Hansard.” ACCEPT NO SUBSTITUTE.
F. LASSETTER & CO., Ltd., SYDNEY. HANSARD PEN CO.
Sent to any address on receipt of price.
, Box 98, C.P.0., SYONEY.
SHIRTS.
or Station and Out-door work our Silk stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
S 3, pet■ Halt-dozen, free by poet throughout
A ustralia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B* MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE
"Dis is wot
I CROWD ON /Vv
' 1
MARK
TRADE
S^CfOßl***
mm
ĥ
ħ
.a£ ,o« SNES s , Liver
AND Troubles
Practically, Dr. Neild’s evidence acquitted
Claude Lomax Stowers of the alleged murder of
i. his baby, That entity was proved to have been
just four, months old, whereas the doctor swore
positively that the dead infant—whose body was
found encased in some of baby Stowers’ clothing—
could not have been that age, and was more prob-
ably only about two months old. Meanwhile the
dead baby lies in a nameless grave, the Stowers’
baby has disappeared, the State has spent a large
sum of money over the three trials; and the whole
trouble would never have happened if a Foundling
Hospital for the receipt of all undesired babies
“andHo questions asked” had been available
in Melbourne. The cost of those three trials
would have reared a dozen foundlings.
• * * *
Unconsciously humorous were the York
business-advisers in turning the Ophir library into
cash. The directories of the various towns visited
are, for some unknown reason, stated to be “the
most interesting feature of the collection ” —which
they really might be if they contain full and candid
marginal notes by the visitors. Thus: Smith,
“Mayor, wants title; avoid carefully.” Jones,
“Coach-driver, send for, remind of former visit.”
Brown, “Squatter, shooting good, whisky very
good.” But it seems too much to hope for. And
among the great authors represented are “Kipling,
Rossetti, Tolstoi, and the Duchess of Leeds ! ”
* * * *
In the wild hurly-burly of the Sydney
artistic row, one fact seems to stand out plainly :
That the students who hold aloof from both art
societies, and demand a State school of art, with a
thoroughly competent instructor, from Europe or
elsewhere, are on the right track. If N.S.W. is
to spend any taxpayers’ money on art, let it be
spent in securing a strong, sane teacher-painter
full of sound knowledge. Then these young or
old gentlemen who are afflicted or blessed with
the insanity of genius can get up, if they please,
their own private art asylums, and pay for their
own cat-fights.
* * » •
The proposal made by a committee of the
wise men of Auckland (M.L.) to roof-in with
canvas a whole block of Queen-street for the pur-
pose of forming a dining-room to accommodate
10,000 school children at a monster bun-worry on
Coronation Day was voted pure lunacy by the
city dominies in public meeting assembled. With-
out the aid of the teachers, the advocates of the
scheme saw that it was impracticable, and it had
to be dropped. Probably Wirth’s Circus will
benefit by the change of programme.
, * * * *
M'r. Justice Stephen (N.S.W.) giving judg-
ment in a very bad Gent. One case in Sydney last
week:
I cannot understand why it is that a person found
acting in this way is not prosecuted.
But isn’t it the judge’s own fault? If in Bank-
ruptcy and other jurisdictions judges may send
suspected thieves and perjurers for trial, why not
send embezzlers when the criminal act is so clear ?
If the case is plain enough for the judge to de-
prive the man of his living, it is surely plain
enough for him to send him on to a jury lor trial.
It is liot flittering to judicial intelligence that
that is not perceived.
"O—AH!”
HIS WORSHIP: “I have
been 30 years silting on this Bench, and”.
THE DEFENDANT: “ It’s just about time yer give
it a rest.”
There, has been a great to-do in the prim
establishment of two well-known maiden ladies in
an Australian city. The wife of a friend paying
a duty-call was taken unexpectedly ill, and the
hostesses were thrown into consternation at the
revelation that a little stranger was on the point
of arrival in their drawing-room. Doctors, nurses
and neighbors were collected wholesale and a little
girl was safely ushered into this world. The
person least disturbed was the mother, who her-
self made a sudden start on life’s journey from a
railway station. Is, then, miscalculation heredi-
tary ?
» * * •
The filthy plague-stricken Chinese quarters
at Alexandria (N.S.W.), burned recently by the
health authorities, were, it has transpired, used as
a “benevolent asylum’’for aged Chinese by their
countrymen. Charity is very cold spelt in
Chinese—and not much warmer spelt in
Australian.
THE UNLIT LOVE CANDLE.
"I want to get a divorce from my wife on the ground of not sufficient warmth and love on
her part. How do I stand in the matter if I prove my allegation? ”
CANDID ATTORNEY : “ Not the remotest. With that face, it would take you all your time
to convince the jury that any female ever consented to be even reasonably civil to you;
and as for expecting said female to show any warmth, I personally consider that
utterly preposterous. ”
Two strangely ambitious suicides recently
passed away in Victoria. One hung himself from
a tree 20ft. high near Brighton. The other evi-
dently heard of him, and promptly hung himself
40ft. high from a big Moreton Bay fig at the
corner of Lansdowne-st., Melbourne.
* * * *
The Bulletin lias already told the story of the
Gippslander who hanged himself merely because a
tree overhanging a gorge near his camp “ offered
such splendid facilities.” There is also on record
the case of a Melbourne storeman who was heard
to say half-a-dozen times in the Course of a year :
“Wouldn’t this lane be surprised if it found a
man hanging there one of these mornings!”
pointing to a beam where hung the lift-pulley.
One morning he fastened the rope about his own
neck, and swung himself from the landing. “No
reason could be assigned for the rash act.” A
man’s ambition counts for nothing before a
coroner’s jury.
* * * *
“Lovei;. Love” is a case listed for next
sitting of Melb. Divorce Court.
Also the historic name of Jones
crops up again. Something is
always happening to Jones.
* * «
The Martinique disaster
is making the people of Mount
Gambier (S.A.) very thought-
ful. The two celebrated lakes
are obviously craters, and the
mount itself an evident vol-
cano—technically “ extinct,”
no doubt, but so was the
West Indian one. Also,
it is a matter of common
knowledge that the water
in the lakes occasionally
sinks or rises some feet
without any above-
ground cause.
The publication in
a Sydney daily of
what purports to be a
likeness of a man un-
der committal on a
charge of assaulting
children should be re-
sented in the interests of
justice. At best of times
the processes of daily
newspapers do not favor
credibly-accurate portraiture,
and to employ them in the case of
a merely accused person is sometimes
as serious an injury as the publication of a dis-
torted version of the evidence.
• * * *
A recent case in Vic., when a woman got a
decree of nullity because she had married her
deceased husband’s brother, suggests that the
Deceased Wife’s Sister Act needs to be supple-
mented with a Deceased Husband’s Brother Act.
* * * *
A small robbery being reported at Castle-
maine (Vic.) lately, the local sergeant was given a
description of the suspected offender. Being a
worldly individual of keen intuition, he wasted no
time picking up clues, but went straight to the
crowded tent where the Simultaneous Mission was
being held, and almost the first man he set eyes
on was the culprit, with the stolen property still
on-him. A day or two later, at Melbourne, Chief
Justice Madden released, during good behavior,
a couple of small boys who had broken into and
robbed a Presbyterian church. One of these
youngsters—whose blood he froze by first telling
them they would formerly have been burnt at the
stake for such a heinous crime—was a model boy
and prizetaker at the church Sunday-school.
There seems to be a moral about these items'
somewhere.
The table on which the late Queen Victoria
signed the Commonwealth Constitution Act now
rests in Melbourne National Gallery, creating a
hideous discord among the pictures with its
garish vulgarity. There is only one thing in
Melbourne like the Queen s table, and that is the
ghastly.hearse adorned with golden angels which
is occasionally seen about the streets. That table
should stand for all time in the Gallery as a
shocking example of the degradation into which
art and beauty fell during the Victorian era.
It and Herkomer’s picture of the Queen
should be placed in a room by themselves. They
are objects too sacred—and too awful—to be asso-
ciated with the Gallery pictures.
* * * *
A Melbourne hearse-factory has quite a
collection of unconsciously-humorous customers’
letters. One, from a country undertaker, urges
the factory to hurry up with the gorgeous meat-
waggon, ordered and in course of building, as the
local mayor is sick, “and not expected to last
more than three days,” and the rival ghoul
may get the job of “ planting ” him “if delivery
is_ not made at once.” The factory sat up all
night and finished the vehicle within the time •
but the mayor recovered, and both ghouls were
disappointed.
* * * *
The returned of the Q. Fifth Contingent
are already clamoring for work up North. What’s
the. matter with the idea of banding together
again and hunting down the Keniffs, to whose
capture £lOOO hangs? Surely as noble and
patriotic a job as S African farm-burning.
* * * m
Colonel Mackenzie’s explanation reN.S W
military etiquette: “There is no objection to
officers smoking . . . but they are expected
to remove their pipes when addressing their
superior officers.” It recalls the Rocks dancing-
saloon where ‘ Gentlemen are requested not to
spit upon the floor. *
* • * *
Residents in the wealthier Melbourne
suburbs have been having an anxious time of late
as the result of the depredations of a clever and
audacious band of balcony-thieves. In conse-
quence of the rigid patrol system upon which the
police are worked the thief knows exactly where
any policeman will be at a given hour, and by
timing the peeler on his beat, and keeping five
minutes behind him, the balcony-thieves may go
right through a suburb without disturbing the
constable or causing him to mSss his official ap-
E ointments. In some of the swagger suburbs the
alcony gang have fossicked over a whole row of
houses in one evening; and now the authorities
are considering the advisability of overlooking a
little irregularity m the patrolling of the regular
police. °
* * * *
“Oktis” writes:—
In a N.S.W. country town a tailor employs eight hands
mostly boys. The workroom is about 10ft. x 12ft and
air space is considerably reduced by the walls being
thickly hung with used paper patterns. Light is admitted
through a small, firmly closed skylight. There is no fire-
place. Into this workroom all the employees are crowded
a L K it. fl ' l i qUently h , ave t 0 "'ork overtime and at night. One
of the boys employed developed consumption, and died
quite recently. The workrooms in country towns are
becoming as insanitary as many in Sydney.
Those interested should petition to have the Fac-
tories Act extended to the town.
* * * *
The gorgeous system of check on the dis-
tribution of relief by the various N.S. W. charitable
agencies, instituted last year at a cost of £llOO
per annum, lias been practically dropped The
resultant discoveries of fraud and double dealing
effected have proved so trifling that £lO would
probably cover the amount for several years and
wQw o o eo i lSldereJ WoFth while, even by the
to spent £llOO a year in saving less
The cheerful readiness of people to swear
things in court was manifested again in a recent
Australian Police Court case. A red-headed man
was arrested with a mat in his possession, evidently
because the police vyere of opinion that a man
with red hair could not possibly be the rightful
owner of a mat. Prisoner insisted that he did not
steal the mat, there was no visible proof that he
had stolen it, and the case was further complicated
by the appearance of two claimants for the mat,
each solemnly swearing - that the mat was hers,
and identifying it positively by certain marks and
brands common to 10,000 mats. Prisoner was
given six months for being found in possession of a
door-mat above his station in life. The claimants
were still wrangling over the property, however,
and as he was being removed the culprit called
out to the court: “X may as well tell you the
mat doesn’t belong to either of these people,”—
and he gave the name and address of the party to
whom it did belong, and went to gaol affirming
his innocence.
* * * *
Already some results of the religious
hysteria, introduced lately into Melbourne by
American missioners, are being felt. The other
night, a well-dressed young woman went to the
South Melbourne parsonage, and, kneeling down,
prayed loudly for the vicar, Canon Dickenson
who openly disapproves of the ways of these mis
sioners. She was promptly handed over to a
policeman, who locked her up for “ insulting be-
haviour.” A professional man, noticing in his
toddy a bitter taste and a white sediment, dis-
covered that his wife, hitherto most exemplary,
felt it her duty to poison him, because he was in
the habit of taking each night the drink which
leadeth to hell fire. From religious hysteria to
religious mania is a short step.
• « • »
Napier (M.LJ Women’s Council has urged
the passing of a law by which a wife could go to a
magistrate and legally demand half of her hus-
band’s earnings..” The Bulletin strongly favors
the idea—if the ladies will promise to be satisfied
with half.
* * • *
Male witnesses of recent murders in Aus-
tralia never, according to their own accounts, run
away ; they invariably set out in search of the
police. One such, not so long ago, with a
realisation of his duty thrust on him, set out to
find a policeman—leaving a lot of women at the
mercy of a violent man armed with a pistol.
* * * *
Slow old Parramatta lately lost three
ancient landmarks by the cutting down of a fine
oak tree planted in Gov. Macquarie’s time, and
the abolition of two old pubs., built respectively
70 and 80 years ago. One, known as “ The Strong
Arm Inn,” was the district home of cock-fights
Dear Bulletin.—l have reason to believe
that a method of reserving railway seats identical
with that which I suggested in Bulletin (15/7/’99)
is now being tried on the French Chemin de Fer
de l'Ouest. If the plan is deemed worthy of ,
trial in France, why cannot our Commissioners
try it ? I am certain it will work satisfactorily,
and I think the credit of formulating the sysl
belongs to an Australian, viz., to—A.E.C.
* * * ■
Therefis a story going the rounds of Mel-
bourne afternoon-tea circles that a small school-
boy lately assisted at his parents’ wedding.
Which recalls the musical comedy “In Town,”
wherein Maud Hobson and Grace Palotta (then
playing her first Australian engagement) figured
as members of the co. at the Ambiguity Theatre.
Behind Graces back the.other girls in the mimic
green-room were speculating as to whether she
was French, or otherwise. “ Oh, she’s verv
French,” said Maud Hobson; “her father and
mother are about to get married, and she’s going
to keep house for them.”
The Victorian Government recently ap-
pointed a commission to inquire into the state of
its railways. Phis is one of the conclusions it
came to :
It must be admitted that the Competition of the tram ;
ways has seriously affected the suburban railway returns
which, when compared with the electric tram system in
.Sydney, may well cause regret that the Melbourne tram-
ways were allowed to go outside the control of the State
Government.
Adelaide will also be sorry long before Snow’s '■
monopoly expires, and will probably shoot rubbish
on Premier Jenkins’ grave by way of expressing
its repentance. And Perth and Brisbane will be
sorry also. Ditto Hobart, when it wakes up. .
A creeping paralysis has attacked the
public spirit of Victorians latterly. Apathy and
indifference are displayed by Melbourne writers,,
municipal reformers, and public towards the rapid-
ly-maturing assault of a private electric tramway
and power co. upon the public road rights of
several municipal districts between Wyndham
and Melbourne. Practically no opposition has
been made to the proposal, except by some of the
Port Melbourne councillors, although not only are
. hueaments of the Adelaide Snow scheme
visible in the Melbourne road-raid, but also the
value of the existing tramway system, when it
reverts to the people, will be materially damaged
if the plot succeeds. Yet even now, whenthematter
has reached the referendum stage, and when the
three-vote elector is going to endorse the “con-
cession ” of the people’s rights, press and public
scarcely know that there is such a scheme.


miiiiiii i 1
dlufi
PRICES.
5f3
Do you like Coffee?
Perfect, Pure,
Fragrant, Exhilarating Coffee
Then Try
H.SPIITH’S
Cold
Medal
Coffee Essence
THE VERY BEST
Australian Representatives :
SWIFT & COMPAIMY,
7 SPRINC STREET,
SYDNEY.
h
Dress fi^Bßies
Are Stocked by the '
Leading Drapers. *•
maVkTHE varnished board
P.D. Corsets) Latest Specialty, Straight Front, Erect Form { P.D. Corsets
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, May 27, 1902.
Mt Dear Arini,—
There is something of the pathetic and the
comic in the attitude of mind with which a new
Governor comes to us. I fancy I can see Sydney,
as the grinning Little Boy at Manly placing a com-
fortable chair for the new ruler, then pulling it
away at the instant that he is about to sit down.
The new Gov. comes here a very Etna of good
intentions, but Sydney blows him cold and
extinct. Sir Harry Rawson, caught at Auckland
by the interviewer, said what all the new Govs,
say in different phrases : “Both myself and wife
have come out intending to make our home with
the people of New South Wales, and to do every-
thing we possibly can for their happiness and
prosperity.” That is the big-chief-and-loving-
father spirit in which every Governor enters Farm
Gove. In fancy, Sir H. already sees well-worn
tracks diverging from the “Cranbrook” wigwam
to the wigwams of his people; and in
fancy he and they foregather to smoke
in peace, and “ponder how the tribes of
men might prosper ” ; after the manner of Pau-
Pak-Keewis in the Hiawathan legend. Soon he
finds that “his people” look down upon his
patriarchialism and say, “ He’s got a terrible lot
of flies ! ” They gaze on his feathery sceptre and
think ‘ ‘ what'price the crowbar ? ”
Large, heavy, hairy, iron-grey, short-necked,
with the humorous eyes and beaming, polished face
that betoken a sound digestion, and a voice that
you could hear through rolling drums, and a here-
upon-my-vessel gait. That’s an impression of
the new State Governor as he stepped ashore at
Farm Cove, prisoned in a tight uniform, bur-
dened with gold bullion. The landing was the
usual military-naval-Church-and-State affair.
Lady Rawson is a plump, serene-faced dame
with a fine head of greying hair. She wore
silver fox furs, a heliotrope gown, and a black-and-
pink toque. Miss Rawson would be a pretty girl
even if she were a simple A.B.’s daughter; as the
Admiral’s lamb she is a marvel of good looks, with
a nice expression, tan and ruddy coloring, and a
lot of warm brown hair. She left a dress memory
of blue and black and brown sables. The swear-
ing-in ceremony at Govt. House was as simple as
noughts and crosses, and short as a yawn. Miss
Darley and one or f wo other official ladies were on
the platform.
The most striking feature of Space Governor
Rawson’s arrival was the procession of dingy,
shabby and nasty carriages hired from the
undertakers ? in which the local Assembly
and Legislative Council outraged the public
eyes. Compared to these conveyances the
much-despised robbo was an ornamental creation.
If members cannot afford to each hire a decent
horse and dray on his own, they ought to club
together and do the thing decently in a drag or a
better-class keb off the rank.
The Gov.-General will, fill our vacuity
for two months or so before he departs for Lon-
don. We should be very glad to have him even
as a grass-widower and not long to reign over us,
for the G.-G. isn’t cross-cornered, or egotistical, or
solitary, and he can foot Scottish dances as well
as any Rob Roy that treads a measure for prize-
money at a Caledonian sports meeting.
Dear Lord*Beauchamp is engaged, so the papers
say. Lady Lettice Mary Elizabeth Grosvenor, a
sister of the Duke of Westminster, is the elect
one. What nice, old-fashioned names she has ;
they recall mignonette and sweetbriar. You
don’t hear of many Gladys, Muriels and Rubys
among the coroneted class. Lady Lettice’s father,
heir to the dukedom, died some years ago and her
mother re-married —with a Mr. Wyndham,
a political light, man of letters, and grand-nephew
of Lord Edward Fitzgerald, the Irish “Rebel.”
At present he is Chief Secretary for Ireland.
The Grosvenors are immensely rich ; one of
them could afford to marry a penniless
Teck, so good little Willie will be related
to royalty. A month hence we shall see Lady
Lettice’s portrait in all the illustrateds amongst
the contingent of high-toned English brides,
mostly very plain ladies who don’t seem to know
how to do their hair. Our ex-Gov. isn’t the man
to marry one who isn’t Lady Something or other.
A while ago a group of titled women tilted
with their pens in the Lady’s Realm at the
subject of unequal marriages. I remember nothing
of the articles save that one of them remarked
upon the “ repulsiveness ” of the marriage of men
of rank to actresses or barmaids. That was one
for the peerage and young millionaires !
Concerning barmaids : I see that the W.C.T.U.
is tucking up its sleeves for a fresh attack on the
girl entrenched behind the bar. It avers that her
hours are too long, that she ’tices men to drink,
and that the conversation addressed to her is not
on the spiritual or intellectual plane, but savors
of a ribald version of the Song of Solomon ; also
that she dyes her hair, drives about with men
wedded elsewhere (and frequently ends by marry-
ing a doctor). Antagonists don’t want to throw
her out of work ; they say “ there are far better
avenues of employment open to her, as lady clerk,
typist, tailoress, dressmaker, domestic servant,”
&c. So the female clerk, typist and (average) dress-
maker has a better “ avenue ” than the barmaid ?
Some of us believed de Rougemont, but none of
us believe that! Better in a certain sesthetical
sense, perhaps ; but, financially, infinitely worse.
Looking at the woman-worker side of the ques-
tion only, a crusade in favor of waitresses and
shop-girls is much more urgently needed. I don’t
know any barmaids (save a few who are married
and in sooiety, and their memory is a blank as to
the period before they crossed the bar), but I am
acquainted with some hack music-teachers, and if
the barmaid has a harder, more nerve-wrecking
life than hers 1 hope the W.C.T.U. will win.
Glasgow is doing away with its barmaids, but is
finding work for them in its new tram offices as
ticket-takers, money-checkers, book-keepers, etc.,
and in its municipal meat-markets. Glasgow
gets drunk, according to the arrested cases,
twice as often as London, and it doesn’t
expect to get more sober because a man instead of
a maid is behind the bar. But, as an old bailie
said, “It’s no seemly fer a young woman tae
listen to the talk o’ men in their cups.” The
Scotsman just wants his whisky for whisky’s sake,
and he would as soon be served by the Jabberwock
as by someone like Grace Palotta, if the service
were as good.
A sad life’s litany was recited in Melbourne
Divorce Court last week when Maud Williams
asked a divorce from her husband on grounds of
desertion. She swore that she married Williams
12 years ago. He made £30,000 in W.A., went to
London to float a mine, and came back bringing a
strange woman with him. A second and a third trip
were made, and each time a different woman livened
his voyaging. The letters of these persons were
mostly demands for money, with incidental
references to the kisses they wished they could
bestow upon their dear Williams. For five years the
wife had had no money from the man, but when he
was stone-broke and his boots had gone back on
him, he found her out where she was at service and
sought money and sympathy from her, and got
both. Morant, “ The Breaker,” has a set of
verses, “At Last,” which might have been written
on that story. Some disconnected lines from the
set: “When I have found life’s garlands
rue.” “When all the joys and all the
zest of youthful years have fled.” “In
the sad twilight of my life I will come
back to you.” I have a vivid recollection of a
dove-eyed district visitor trying to soothe an out-
raged and deserted slum wife with exactly those
sentiments, and the wife arose in wrath, her eyes
blazing, and answered : “So Bill will come back
to me when what you call ‘the fire of life’ is
burnt out ? Will he ? Well, d his soul! who
wants him then?”
Amy Castles and co., all fresh from touring that
long, straggling M.L. province, which may be
blown up or sucked under, some volcanic or earth-
quaky day, re-appeared at Sydney Town Hall at
a concert, 13 numbers strong, increased to 23 by
encores. The singers were all in improved voice,
but the star soprano herself put the harmonious
roof on her previous Sydney work. There is no
reason why the musicianly architecture shouldn’t
have been accomplished altogether on her last visit,
but a Voice, like the ways of Providence, is an
inscrutable thing. Amy’s principal contributions
were Gounod’s cantata, “Jerusalem,” and the
Traviata aria, “A Fors e lui,” given with the
power and sweetness that such splendid melodies
deserve. For the Irish Folk Song, which the
soprano gives so often as an encore, I cannot get
up any enthusiasm. Foote composed it after
being serenaded by his family banshee. Another
encore was a winsome little ballad, “If no one
ever marries me ” a child’s reverie of how she
would fill her spinster life with a squirrel, rabbits
and a lamb, up to the doddering age of 28, at
which time she would buy a little orphan girl.
It was sung with a dreamy playfulness, and got a
treble encore. Dani’s amorous tenor roused the
usual enthusiasm amongst the huge audience.
The “fortunate soprano,” as the Herald always
calls Amy Castles, had several pleasant frisks
given in her honor during her short stay in
Sydney. Mr. and Mrs. Meagher, with whom she
stayed, took her in the Govt, launch Eva to
Riverview College, where the students gave her
three cheers, and she got a holiday for them to
come to her matinee. Minister for Works and
Mrs. O’Sullivan, Mrs. J. C. Williamson, Mr.
Kingsmill (the Westralian Commissioner for Rail-
ways), and Mr. Kidd were also afloat, with a stray
barrister and brewer or two, and some Young
Things, amongst them Miss Dolly Castles, with a
cascade of golden hair and a voice the twin of
what Amy’s was three years ago. (By the way,
the Minister for Works says he is going to make
a railway to the foot of Mt. Kosciusko and
straighten the paths to the top. Doesn’t it
freshen you to think of the terminus and
the edelweiss on the Mount ?) On Saturday, Mrs.
J. T. Toohey gave an “At Home” to meet Miss
Castles. The decorations, the browse, the pro-
gramme, dramatic and musical, and the guests,
were of the best, and had it not been for the lack
of a steam merry-go-round (without which no
“At Home ” is now really up-to-date) the function
would have been perfect.
The Sonoma had a musical as well as a vice-regal
freight. Mdlle. Dolores was aboard and Barron
Morley, the Australian pianist, fresh from a long
American tour. Mr. Morley is an old boy of
Newington College, Sydney.
George Lambert says the New Salon is very
fine this year. Simon has a splendid thing—a
family seated around a table, wonderful lamplight,
etc. The premier American portraitist exhibits
his painting of the Wertheimer sisters—a mar-
vellous work.
In glancing over the list of six or eight hundred
wedding-gifts to the Hornabrook-Sargood pair I
noticed letter-scales. The gift stood out in high
relief from the flat, monotonous reduplications of
silver photo-frames, egg-cruets, and bangles. A
literary pair gave it. You’ll see now that the next
fashionable wedding-present list will contain
several letter-scales.
The mind of a dog 1 A Gordon setter friend of
mine had two pups which worried the life and
lovo out of her. They refused to be weaned, and
no matter how she objected, insisted upon accom-
panying her on her walks. Her owners had left a
bush and wild-flower district seven miles up the
northern line, and just come to live near town.
On an afternoon lately Mrs. Gordon Setter went
out for her walk but, instead of going by stealth
to evade the pups, she deliberately took them with
her and went down to the railway station which
is the terminus from the bush and wildflower
district. From that point she walked along the
line towards her former home. Witnesses saw the
trio at various stages of the journey and at the
seven miles the mother and her footsore and
exhausted offspring were seen to disappear in the
dusk into the bush. Late the same night the
setter came back, fearfully tired, but without
encumbrances. She must have reasoned out that
manoeuvre, of taking her pups to the bush and
losing them, even to the degree of leaving no trail
by walking along the metalled railroad.
Miss Maggie Moore, of “Struck Oil” fame,
was married to her late leading man, Mr. Harry
J. Roberts early last month in New York. A
civil marriage before a justice of the peace in
Jersey City was followed a week later by a
sacred ceremony performed by a Dissenting
clergyman. Then the bridegroom hastened
to the theatre to play his part in the matinee
of “Du Barry.” Mrs. Roberts will sail for
Australia some time in July to fill an engagement
here. Her husband will continue to play under
Mr. David Belasco.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“There are people, who lay some of the blame
for the Gov.-General’s flit on the shoulders of the
haughty Countess. She has never liked Aus-
tralians, say these wiseacres, and now ( she fumes
at the idea of impoverishing her sons for the sake
of the beastly colonies. Very rich folk are easily
‘impoverished,’ you know. A boy, reared at the
rate of say ten thousand a year, is a wretched
pauper if pa can’t leave him more than a beggarly
hundred thousand or so. Hopetoun’s trek
is a bit of bad luck for his suite and household.
A viceroy doesn’t throw the handkerchief at
the same set of pals more than once in a lifetime,
Wally always excepted. Mrs. Corbet deserves
something of her hostess, anyway. Since she
came, people pronounce the countess not so bad,
after all. It is surmised that Mrs. Corbet may be
an heiress, which would account for much. Her
husband’s brother married a Scotch heiress, so
moneyed wives may run in the family.
“An extra number of Sherlock Holmeses were
switched on for a certain fashionable wedding the
other week, and the arrangements, this time, were
simple and direct. The ‘officers’ were stationed
round the big room where the presents were spread
forth, like the lamps on a suburban station. There
they glimmered, silently, effectively. Once or
twice, corpulent legislators, hustled by the fashion-
able crowd, collided with one of these light figures,
begged pardon breathlessly, looked a second time
for a civil answer or protest, saw the Sphinx
stare, damned softly, and turned away in wrath at
tilting against a detective —or something of the
sort. Heretofore the rule obtained of scattering
two or three of the ‘ watch-and-catch-’em ’
brigade among the wedding-guests, but a wise
host conceived the sensible idea of letting those
with thieving propensities be warned off present-
lifting by that ominous row of Standard Police
Lamps.
“ They are a bit particular in ‘ dear dirty
Dublin ’ as to the status of the lady visitors to the
race-course. One of the rules laid down for the
new Phoenix Park Club members is that an
application for any half-guinea ladies’ tickets
must be accompanied by the names and addresses
of the fair ones. And this rule was passed. Not a
solitary member was there to veto it. What
model men ! How would that rule fare in con-
nection with Flemington or Caulfield course?
Imagine the names and addresses of some of the
golden-hair flashlets being handed into the club by
various respected members ! Of course a lawyer
has always the excuse of pressing claims of a
client, a doctor of a patient—a bootmaker of his
last.
“ Men are just now being bribed, and coaxed,
and terrified into sporting medallions of wifey and
the little chips of the old block. Two or three
woman-fearing and peace-loving husbands have
the framed baby’s' photo, hanging honestly from
the rolled-gold chain. Others dangle them till
out of sight of home, when they are ruthlessly
stowed into an inner pocket. The man who
absent-mindedly hands you the family ‘On Our
Selection ’ medallion for a match-box is the most-
to-be-pitied of all. He wears such a wretchedly
imbecile, hang-dog expression of a ‘ couldn’t-help-
it-had-to ’ air. Surely women needn’t hobble the
poor paymaster like that J
“A strong, racy dame of exalted associations
was being lunched luxuriously at Toorak t’other
day. A swagger party it was, but muzzled.
Things were carried out in much yellow-plush
style. When the adjournment to the boudoir
came on, the hostess proffered, somewhat timidly,
a tray of highly-perfumed cigarettes. ‘Will
you?’she asked. ‘Thanks,’ said the racy dame,
‘ I have my own smokes with me.’ She had. She
drew out a cigar—maduro—from a case, lit it, and
settled down to a snug yarn.
“The cream voile and white cloth costume is
to be the toniest turn-out of wintery house
gatherings. The choice, but not profuse, de-
corations of an art-brown velvet on the cream
gown is to be the crowning feature of the
toilette. Lady Chermside wore such a frock at
her Bananaland reception. At an At Home given
by that languid, dreamy-eyed, ivory-complexioned
dame, Mrs. Arthur Moule, no less than six cream
gowns tried conclusions, but only one—and this
not the smartest—boasted the subdued nut-brown
relief. By the way, Mrs. Moule, who has seen
several summers in India, is one of the few clever
conversationalists in Sassiety equal to the playful
wit of professors and book beaux.
“Westralia provides another husband for a
Melbourne maid—this time Mr. Charles Stawell,
son of the departed C. J. and Lieut.-Governor of
Yictoria, who has became engaged to Miss Mildred
Kennedy, one of eight daughters. The late Mr. R.
Kennedy was a wealthy station-owner in N.S.W.;
his widow and family at present reside at ‘ Cul-
zean,’ Armadale.
“ A medico on the staff of a foreign man-o’-war
visiting these shores, got into hot water through
his amorous overtures and most promiscuous and
daring flirtations with girls he met or merely saw
in the street. One man threatened him with a
thrashing, another sent a warning in a caf6 through
a waiter, and a third laid in wait and scattered
the foreign devil out for winking at his lady-love.
“The gentleman in kharki ordered to Africa
has lost his early glamor of romance. One pf the
best-looking and most petticoat-loving of the
crested warriors left Melbourne last week for the
third time since the war commenced. His depar-
ture on this occasion proved the anti-climax to the
former glories of hero-worship. It was evident to
him, and to all at the feeble farewelling, that
the mustard uniform has lost its power, and fallen
into disregard. His first departure from Mel-
bourne, when the war-lust was in its first hysteria,
was wept over by many charmers—bona-fide
charmers. All the other officers ground their
molars with envy; they had only two or three
apiece. The second time, one girl wept and waved
him off. The third time, there wasn’t even one.
“ During the first act of ‘ The Thirty Thieves’
on Saturday there was a painful sensation in the
d.c., near to the manager’s box. A stout gentle-
man fell from his seat in a fit, and had to be
carried out to the foyer by as many strong arms
as were necessary to manage the heavy weight.
The case—it was Mr. Pollock, the now hotel-
keeper, formerly of ‘the profession’—turned out
to be not so serious as it had looked, for presently
the word went round that Mr. Pollock was all
right again. Then the people who had been
witnesses of the depressing side-show recovered
their appetite for frivolity.
“ ‘ Orpheus and Eurydice,’ a spectacular, classi-
cal drama in two acts, will be performed at St,
Kilda Town Hall on Thursday, June sth, in the
sacred cause of charity. The cause is the City
New Boys’ Society. The author of ‘O. and E.’—
Mr. Arthur Seymour—will play the male name
part; Miss Eileen Buckley is the lady who married
Orpheus, and a good deal of the music composed
by Mr. Gollmick will be sung by Hector Lightfoot.
At classical items like this, Hector is a highly-
appropriate Christian name.
“In a quiet way, old man Parkinson, the most
successful of living Melb. trainers, is doing more
to develop an opera school than either of the
conservatoriums. A finished little performance
of the ‘ Faust ’ garden scene, the other evening,
followed on similarly successful excerpts from
‘Trovatore ’ and other operas. His pupils do not
rush into the theatres to perform, but give their
shows in a quaint little theatre in their tutor’s
pretty back garden, the audience sitting on the
greensward on summer nights, after Italian
provincial fashion. Mr. Parkinson, who figured
as leading tenor of fifty-three grand operas in
London and the provinces from the early fifties to
the late eighties, taught most of the Melb. singers
all they know. One of his earliest pupils was
Florence St. John, the buxom English burlesque
singer.
“The sad death of the Septimus Millers’only
child, a girl of 13, draws attention to the fact that
big families of bouncing boys and romping girls
are no longer common, at all events in wealthy
homes. Sons are especially scarce and prosperous
parents lean all their hopes on the frail shoulders
of one or two delicate girls. Note the leaders of
fashion ! Mrs. Baronet Clarke and Mrs. George
Chirnside have each two daughters. Mrs. Browne
(nee Chirnside) has one. The nurseries of more
recent households, of Mesdames Gordon Lyon,
H. M. S. Cox and Vallange are, so far, tenanted
by a solitary girl baby.
“Youthful bridegrooms are the order ot the
day. Last week, one of the early editions—
Augustus T. Hiskens—took unto himself for wife
Miss M. K. Macdonald—a tall, dark, willowy
girl, whose foreign air and style of dress are only
found a delusion when her attractive Scottish
accent falls on the ear. Miss Macdonald is a smart
gowner, and her bridal turn-out was one of the
most fanciful and well-thought-out of any recently
on show. A feature of the dress was its wide picture
frill sleeves, its handsome yoke of pearls, its wide
belt, and its much-laced and festooned-skirt,
flowing wide, in the fashion of all French and
American toilettes. Jessamine was worn in a
corset with orange blossom. The two sisters of
the bride were also foreign in their style, and
somewhat original in their fashion. French frocks
of white soft silk, with long Beaufort coats of
brocade, and rose chiffon vests, were an effective
foil to the two brunette dazzlers. The bride-
groom is the son of a clergyman, and looks about
21. His dark, handsome bride is taller and more
notable.
“Tea-talk now at Toorak is mostly in the
direction of private hospital treatment. So many
women go regularly to the sawbones’ mills for the
usual fashionable operation that the comforts and
luxuries of each expensive institution form the
staple subject of Toorak’s tea-tattle.
Yours affectionately,
AkENHI.
A graceful form and well moulded bust
are essential to perfect beauty. Lacte , the
wonderful “ Skin Food ” is nature’s remedy for
giving back those essentials when lost through
sickness or action of time, and for supplying them
when constitutionally deficient. It fills all hollows,
develops and gives a charming roundness to neck
and arms. Price 7s. 6d. per jar, post Bs. 3d.
Westall Guest, Toilet Specialist to the Gov.-
General, 229 Bourke-street, Melbourne.


Hotel Cecil
& Restaurant
Largest and most magnificent Hotel in Europe.
Overlooking the picturesque Embankment Gardens and river.
LONDON.
Moderate Charges:
Bedrooms, light and attendance included, from 6s. per day. Breakfast, from 25.;
lunch, 3s. 6d.; dinner, 6s. Suites, ensuring absolute privacy, from 245. per day.’
Telegraphic Address: CECELIA, LONDON.
A. JUDAH, Manager.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
lightest a Wines
Australia.
in
Supplied to H.R«H. the Duke of York,
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Motto for Northumberland, N. S. W.: The
bigger the Truth the greater the libel.
Even in his political will, Cecil Rhodes
oouldn’t forget The Bulletin. “Read,” he
wrote, “ the Sydney Bulletin (New South Wales)
and see where undue pandering to the labor-vote
may lead you.”
Colonel Torn Price is to command the
Queensland troops. Apropos, what matchless
bullock-drivers were lost to the profession when
Tom Price and Gen. Hutton took to slogging men
instead of poddies !
J. H. M. Abbott, the i dest young man
who has written the best Australian book
so far on the S’African war, is a son of- late
N.S.W. Speaker Abbott, and a member of Sydney
Evening News staff.
S.A. Parliament only possesses one man
with a title—Speaker Coles. The Council, barring
the conventional “ honorables, ” are all plain
Misters, although President Stirling is in danger
of being adorned with a Coronation tag.
Squatter Robert M’Farland, of Riverina,
who introduced the Vermont merino to N.S.W.,
and ruled as a pastoralist king from the early
days, has died on boardship the Konigen Luise,
on what he planned as a pleasure trip to England.
Rev. J. E. Mercer, of Gorton, near Man-
chester, has been nominated Bishop of Tasmania.
He is more “low-church” than any previous
bishop of that English isle, and there is grave fear
in Hobart that he won’t be sufficiently con-
temptuous towards “Dissenters.”
Milman, the retrenched (Q.) Stamp Com-
missioner, was the official who collected the evi-
dence in the notorious Hopeful case —all too con-
scientiously for some people. The revelations in
connection with the Hopeful’s blackbirding
methods were about the nastiest knock the traffic
has ever had.
At Bendigo, a few days ago, an applica-
tion for an old age pension was granted to a miner
over 70 years of age, and totally blind. Ere the
welcome dole of Bs. per week was granted, it was
elicited that the cheerful veteran was working
(unsuccessfully enough) a 40ft. shaftdaily, and unas-
sisted —by maans of ladders. He lost his vision
years ago.
By the deaths of John Rounsevell, J. T.
Fitch (a wealthy draper), and J. Angas Johnson
(a grandson of the original millionaire Angas), the
S.A. Treasurer will realise about £25,000 in death-
duty, and he is worrying now lest the estates
should not be ready to pay up before the end of
the financial year on J line 30. All three capita-
lists died in one week.
One present Queensland Minister first
struck his present electorate in the capacity of
cook to a travelling hawker. When he first came
to Parliament he was arrayed in bell-bottomed
pants and high-heeled elastic-side boots. People
wouldn’t remember these things if his present
aggressive attitude towards his own class didn’t
perpetually remind them.
AS SEEN AT SYDNEY TIVOLI.
Obit. Rev. W. J. Dowson, once a figure-
head of Parramatta Wesleyanism, but for over a
dozen years living retired at the Glebe, Sydney.
Ile worked Parramatta in 1856. Then the people
wanted plenty of exertion, and paid little for it.
There is an ancient record showing six sermons a
week, besides visiting families and catechising
children, and income for the whole year
£ll Bs. BJd.
Professor Towar, the new chief of S.A.
Agricultural College, is a man so well accredited
thiit folk are wondering how the Wheat State
managed to tempt him from America. He is most
distinguished in appearance and much resembles
Wilfrid Laurier. The Professor was much struck
with Sydney on his way through the States : “It
is suggestive of Boston,” he said—and what
higher praise is possible from a citizen of the
Great Republic ?
The death of “ Father ” Kenny, of Gran-
ville (N.S.W.), is announced. The thousands of
people he baptised and married and prayed with
in the last half-century of Primitive Methodism
in and around Sydney called him “ Father, ” be-
cause, although he had given up the R.C. priest-
hood, he kept a lot of the old manner among his
flock. He held himself clear f religious broils.
Printed that Cardinal Moran is in high
favor at the Vatican, and will be appointed to
direct the mission operations of the R.C. Church,
in succession to Card. Ledochowski, now in his
80th year. Sydney’s Cardinal probably knew
what he was about when, two years ago, he was
slaving over those beautifully imaginative “his-
torical” accounts of the South Sea Islands mis-
sions !
In the first flush of their new-found
“ patriotism ” several officers of the earlier Vic.
cohentingents declined to take Imperial as well as
State pay. The red-tape war officials, however,
refused to be aw..re of this bashfulness and for-
warded their pay with the rest. Now their
patriotism has melted away, and they are reaching
for the coin with both hands. The Vic. Govt, is
also reaching, so there is a coolness between the
parties.
The late Mr. James Dick, of Glasgow,
well-known in Australia as a fortunate mininer-
speculator and open-handed man, in disposing of
his fortune of about a million-and-a-nalf, left
something like £750,000 to Scottish charities It
is understood that in his will he gave the refusal
of the .well-known and now splendidly-equipped
Mitchell’s Creek Freehold (N.S.W.) gold-mine,
which contains perhaps the longest gold-shoot in
Australia, to the present manager at a very low
price.
England, so very anxious for Australians
to take the nigger to their bosoms, doesn’t take
any more nigrur herself than she can help. For
instance, the Stamford' Earldom ! This, by right
of primogeniture, belongs to some half-caste Zulu
or other, the last Earl having married a Zulu
woman, and lived as a Zulu. But his coffee-
colored progeny was quietly passed over by the
Lords’ Committee of Privilege, who chose a white
man far outside of the direct line of succession, to
be the new peer.
Related of a N.S.W. back country M.P.
(noted for his baldness and his rakish wig) that
coming across a large body of aborigines, evi-
dently bent upon mischief, some years ago, he
got behind a tree, put his head out to the right
and showed his well-wigged skull, then as quickly
withdrew it, pulled off the wig and placed his
bald head out to the left. He executed this per-
formance rapidly for a few minutes. The dark
warriors stared, then with a wild yell of “Debbil-
debbil ” made off through the scrub.
Rumored that N.S.W. Premier See will
resign very shortly. He and his family are
arranging for a trip to England, and his retire-
man t from politics is looked upon as certain if a
title comes his way Coronation time. The un-
interesting Mr. See is a man of many interests,
and he is said to be tired of lots of things ; tired
of keeping pp with the O’Sullivan; tired of rastling
with the unemployed ; tired of asserting his status
as a State Premier ; tired of the whole game, and
eager to retire from it all as—hats off ! —Sir John
See-
Albert Le Soeuf, aged 74, recently deceased
director of Melb. Zoological Gardens, was, for 35
years, usher of the Black Rod in Vic. Leg.
Council. He was the happy possessor of shapely
calves, and when he arrived in the Assembly with
a message, he made the courteous six bows, coming
and going, in a manner which invariably drew the
attention of members from the business in hand to
himself. He had lived in the State since ’4O, and
knew a lot about aboriginals, kangaroos, snakes
and native birds. Two of his sons have positions
in Perth (W.A.) Zoo.
Tommy Marks figured in a law-case at Bal-
larat a week or two back, and the case recalls
Tommy’s history. Marks is a Ballarat celebrity.
He was one of the men who helped to get Lalor
away after the Eureka fight, and he it was who
nursed Peter throughout the journey to Geelong.
Tommy got on to some good things after, and
made a pile, but has since lost it all. He has a
big claim on true Australian sympathy, a claim
that the S’African swaddies, whose tombs,
memorials, and bean-feasts are becoming so
expensive, never can have.
Death of Abby Booth, of Gobbagumbalin,
Wagga, N.S.W., at 87, is another proof that the
hardships of the settler in early Australian days
interfered very little with his chances of long life.
He went to the Riverina 60 years ago, when the
country was in a state of savagery, but he stuck to
it till he made Gobbagumbalin not only a profit-
able speculation, but a home having all the solid
comforts of civilisation. Booth was an English-
man, and fraternised for many years with Henry
Parkes ; both were born in Waterloo year.
Poor Alfred Austin, poet laureate, is 67
this week (May 30), yet he will have to strain his
alleged intellect by writing a Coronation ode of
some kind. How the Royal Family must miss
Tennyson, who, while always eager to sing their
praises, usually managed to sell his loyal poems
at a good rate and to secure them a wide publicity.
Austin, on the contrary, earns nothing but ridi-
cule for himself or his patron. As Austin is
Setting on in years, there is still a chance of
talonel Neild being offered the laureateship.
The Lady’s Realm (London) for Feb. tells
this of the Yorks’ visit to Melbourne:—
A novel incident occurred during the great Trades
Procession. A blacksmith jumped from the symbolic
lorry on which he was riding, and, deftly removing a shoe
from one of the horses, boldly ran towards the royal
visitors and laid the emblem of good luck at the feet of
the Princess. The loyal spectators were shocked at his
audacity for the moment, until they saw how genuinely
pleased she was with the blacksmith’s humble though
significant gift.
There is no explanation why the guard of honor
did not prong the Bold Blacksmith with a bayonet
before he could explain that he meant kindly
with the horseshoe.
PASTOR RONALD , M.H.R. FOR SOUTH
MELBOURNE.
Meteorologist Clement Wragge is now in
his 50th year. He came to reside permanently in
Australia 19 years ago, but had previously twice
visited South Australia, doing surveying and
other work. When S.A. parted with him as a
meteorologist he offered his services to other
States, and was accepted by Queensland.
Clement Wragge has issued an “ appeal ”
to the Australian public to keep his Weather
Bureau going by private subscriptions. It reads
like a royal proclamation demanding tribute :
We mean to save the Weather Bureau as a great private
concern to the Australian nation ; and the thing can be
done, if dogged will and enterprise can do it. We are not
so easily suppressed as some people imagine, and time
proves all things. We refuse to be kept longer “on the
string,” self-respect and British pride alike rebel, and so
we mean to launch out boldly and fearlessly, and if our
scheme does not succeed it will be the fault of the people,
to whom we directly appeal, not ours '
The outbreak of Dillon, M.P., in calling
Chamberlain “ a damned liar ” in the Commons
is nothing to that of Mr. Martin, member for
Galway, who in 1789 referred to a fellow member
and his sister, who were sitting in the gallery,
thus: —“These Ponsonbys are the curse of my
country. They are (unprintable), personally and
politically, from the toothless old hag who is now
grinning in the gallery to the white-livered scoun-
drel who is now shivering on the floor.” Even
Australia’s own John M ‘Elhone at his best (or
worst) never excelled that.
John Rounsevell, brother of ex-Treasurer
Rounsevell, who died in Adelaide, May 15, was a
crack whip in the early days. On one occasion he
came to a bad bit of track with a full load of
passengers and asked them to alight to save the
strain on the horses, but they said they had paid
to ride and declined to descend. So he calmly
remounted the box, drove the coach over a log,
and capsized it. Then they all got out. John,
who was reputed wealthy, sat in the Assembly for
some years, but never took much interest in
politics. He made a record by marrying three
sisters —of course, one at a time.
Demise : Capt. Machell, perhaps the
smartest man ever known on the English turf.
He brought off the Hermit coup, with which
Chaplin ruined Lord Hastings, by winning the
Derby, after Hastings had bolted with Chaplin’s
fiancee, daughter of Lord Anglesey. This lady
afterwards married Sir George Chetwynd, a par-
ticular friend of Chaplin’s, and the three became
cronies in their whist-table days. It recalls Haw-
thorne’s fanciful ending of the “ Scarlet Letter,”
when he speculates on Chillingworth becoming
the friend of Dimtnesdale in heaven, after his im-
placable enmity on earth —over Hester Prynne.
Love is akin to hate.
Dick Wood, best-known and most in-
dependent of the defeated Adelaide Labor
members, has taken to life-insurance canvassing
as a temporary occupation until the next election
comes round. Before he entered the Assembly he
was the best blacksmith in the Govt, workshops,
and he was once employed at Woolwich Arsenal.
While there he put a chalk mark on the present
King’s boot on the occasion of a Royal visit, and
Albert Edward paid up his drinks like a man.
The Prince rendered himself liable to the fee by
picking up one of the sledges to test : ts weight.
One of the foremen showed an inclination to
punish young Wood for his “ irreverence,” but
was told by the lad that in that case he would
report the matter to the Prince. So nothing
happened, and Richard was th.e hero of the shops
for weeks afterwards.
From D.T. (7/5/ 02)
Adaminaby, Tuesday.—Mr. Henry West, of Oabramatta
Station, died yesterday, at the ripe age of 91 years.
Deceased had been for over 50 years a resident of Monaro.
This good-natured man, Mr. Henry West (writes
a correspondent), arrived upon the scene just as
my father —who has himself, this month, entered
upon his 84th year—had been severely injured by
a kick from a bullock. This occurred over 40
years ago, and far from reach of medical aid. Mr.
West, who was travelling in a cart with another
man, on a cattle-trip, at once unloaded his cart,
-and, leaving the man with the goods, kindly eon-
veyed my father 50 miles, to Hay, to a doctor ;
and had then to return that distance ere continu-
ing his journey. A hundred miles in a cart to do
a good and kindly action !
N.S.W.’s ex-Sheriff Cowper’s letter on the
remount question in London Times leads off with
the personal confidence—“ when I was in the
Government.” Charles Cowper was 40 years ago
Clerk of N.S.W. Leg. Council. He drew a salary
for that office and ranked as a member of the
Government, but had not a seat in the Cabinet.
His father, “Slippery Charlie,” was Premier at
the time. The ex-Sheriff was in early life a fight-
ing politician and it was believed he would fill his
father’s boots in time, but something steady with
a fixed salary got the better of his political
ambitions. While he was a public servant he
often frightened domineering Ministers by
threatening to resign and oppose them on the
hustings, and when finally he was retired he tried
to rekindle the old fire, but it would not burn. So
he started a private business, married, and went
to see the world.
A personal note of especial interest to old
Sydney University men :
The two James Patersons lived together during the ’7o’s
in Woolloomooloo, being known as “ The Twins." James
Stewart Paterson, M.A., LL.D., who died last week, and
the sparkling M.D. (deceased many years ago), class-mate
and pal of the Prince of Wales (now King), later idol of
the sick poor in Lower Woolloomooloo, when it was
the breeding-ground of pushdom and the training
school of larrikins, where none save those to
whom “the talent” gave the “freedom of the city*
dared tread after nightfall. Barrister Paterson was a
silent man, ever fiercely absorbed in gleaning up the
fossil remains of the dry bones of antiquity, radiating
little back, not through greed but from inability to
dispense. Concerning men and their devious ways he
knew little ; of women, less than nothing, and cared
still less. This soul, badly nutritioned in sameness
of diet, was but imperfectly protected from the
ravages of a physical infirmity to which he owed
his eclipse from the meteorlike brilliancy of his career
during the ’so’s and ’6o’s. He was very absent-minded.
One day the doctor picked up a dead fowl, which he
brought home for the purposes of some experiment, but
his housekeeper served it to Professor James as a lunch'
dainty. ‘ * Man, it naturally deceased ! ” exclaimed the
horrified medico. “ I picked it up coming home."
“ Weel, and ye might ha’ passed sooner or it might ha’
died later with advantage,” and he calmly finished up
the bird. The Professor possessed, but used
• seldom, a smile which made him the adored
of women and women-children. Vague, evanescent, un-
directable, it wandered round till it lighted by chance on
some soul that understood, and appropriated it. Present
scribess, 35 years back, had one smile gleamed on her,
and would identify it from a thousand others to-day.
The girl who waited on him at the last said : “ Did you
ever see the doctor smile ? How we shall miss him 1 "
And she wept sadly.
WAR ITEM.
MR. SMITH: “Come an’ have a nip."
DR. BROWN: “Don’t drink; and YOU shouldn't
— beer's no good. There's more blood in a
pint of milk than in a quart of beer.”
MR. SMITH: “ P’raps; but I'm not bloodthirsty;
beer’s good enough for me.”
N.S.W. Full Court had the courage, the
other day, to boldly upset a bylaw, under the
recent Pharmacy Act, providing that, to be
registered as a chemist, a man must pass certain
tests and produce a certificate of skill from his
previous employer. The Pharmacy Board re-
fused to register a man because he couldn’t bring
along the employer’s certificate; the employer
was dead or something. It takes a very solemn
and technical view of its responsibilities, N.S.W.
Pharmacy Board.
The United Typewriter and Supplies Co.,
one of the largest concerns manufacturing type-
writers, seems to be getting more of its share of
the world’s business. One of its machines, the
“Yost,” was favoured recently by the Indian
Government with an order for one hundred and
twenty machines. In addition to this their
Australian representative now reports the sale of
five hundred “ New Century” Typewriters for use
on the Government Railways. An important
fact is that these two are record orders for the
world, and, what is more important in the eyes of
the Company, were obtained in competition with
all the leading makes. Australian buyers can
obtain both of these machines from the Company’s
office in Sydney, Melbourne and Perth.*
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they-will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.


. . THE VERY BEST . •
maconochie’s
DELICIOUS PRESERVES
Fbesh Herrings. Kippered Herrings.
Herrings in Tomato Sauce. Pickles.
Worcester Sauce. Potted Meats. Marmalade.
SWIFT <Sc COMPANY,
7 Spring- Street, Sydney.
. . . Australian Agents.
as
BULLETIN SUBSCRIBERS^-
Who are unable to read small printed matter, or to see fine
stitching or writing, whose distant vision is dull and who suffer
from persistent headaches or pains after close application—you
may rest assured that you are suffering from Ageing" or
Impaired Vision, and Need Glasses. You should visit
us, *and have your sight scientifically tested, and be supplied
with Glasses adapted to your individual case.
TO COUNTRY READERS who cannot visit us personally, we send, Post Free to any address, with full instruc-
tions and Price List, our marvellously-accurate and popular SELF S 1 G-l T- .d .3 ASU 31N Q PATENT. By its use
you can Test your own sight and determine for yourself the style and quality of the glasses you may need.
Write for it to—
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Consulting Optician,
371 George St., Sydney,
next door to the A.J.S. Bank.
King and George Streets.
And at 232 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, opposite Aoe Office.
Hotel
Australia
BATES:
12s. 6d. per Day,
and upwards.
“ THE AUSTRALIA ” is loftily situated ; from
its dome, the Pacific Ocean can be seen, and the
whole of Sydney.
To its favorable and airy position, “ THE
AUSTRALIA ’’ adds every comfort and appoint-
ment. It is fireproof from tower to basement;
and an efficient staff patrols the building day and
night. It possesses the most elegant of drawing-
rooms, handsomely appointed dining-rooms, cosy
bar lounges and winter gardens. The system
and attendance of the hotel are unsurpassable.
J. URE SMITH (Late of Menzies’), Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors. —In the case of ethnological and
natural-history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific value.
“B.B.” : Recently crows have made their
appearance in the orchard districts of Central
Cumberland (N.S.W.) and turned their attention
to oranges from which they pick and eat the pips.
Have crows ever before
been known to turn vege-
tarians? Certainly a crow
looks like a bird that is
capable of turning
anything.
IN PUSH SOCIETY.
SNUFFLEBUST: “ Wilt thou take this woman to be
thy lawful wedded wife? ”
GROOM: “My colonial oath!”
“Werrimee”: A Mr. Bowman, of
Taroom(Q-), claims, at this late date, to have dis-
covered that the bottle-tree is a valuable fattening
food for stock. Now, the nourishing qualities of
the bottle-tree (for beast and man) were fully ex-
pounded in these oolumns by writer and others in
’97-8, and its fodder value was known to bushmen
Heaven knows ho.w many years before that. Mr.
Bowman certainly didn’t blaze the bottle-tree
traok.
It is not the foliage but the wood of the bottle-
tree which is given to sheep and cattle. The tree
is cut down, chopped into lengths, and chips
either wrenched off with an axe, or stripped off
with a bar. The cattle eat them greedily, young
and old, and fatten. The strips of timber can be
put through a cutter and utilised as chaff.
•*. * *
Blacks in the Macleay district, after suffer-
ing more than seven lean years in their maize-
growing, are having such a fat season, and are
getting such fat prices, that a number, of them
now drive about in sulkies and dress in tailor-
made clothes. The sulkies are always well-stocked
with “wobble Charlie” (rum), and the gins now
spend their time on a steam merry-go-round in
tine township.
MORNING TEA AND BUSH MODESTY.
(Dawn of Day—station burnt down—manager living in tent.)
NEW COOK (with cup of tea on fire-shovel): “Here ye are!” (Shoves it through tent-flaps.)
Owing to drought and the high price of
meat it is seriously proposed, in several districts
of southern N.S.W., to petition Parliament to
suspend the operations of the new Rabbit Act so
that bunny may be preserved as food for the
people. Yet we have persons howling for the
introduction of some foul disease amongst rabbits !
* * * •
Taking into consideration the statement of
the leading butchers that meat will yet reach a
shilling per lb. on account of the drought, what a
harvest there will be for anyone with rabbits to
sell at 9d, a pair ! Australia may yet eat up its
rabbit scourge.
V* . *
“ That tired feeling.” The desire to get
light work is becoming a disease amongst young
Australians. Herewith a letter received by a
country M.P. :
Dear Sir. —I am writin’ to arsk you to get me a billet
under the government. I would iike a light billet.' lam
not able to do much hard work. I could not be heat as a
rabbit inspecter, and if you cannot get that for me, try
and get me into the foot polece or a forest ranger. I am
27 years old and lam a pretty fair scolar. Hoping you
will get me an easy job because I voted for you at last
election. —Yours obedieat,
* » * »
Re beer-drinking. When the N.S.W.
Lancer Regiment was ’Ome at Jubilee time,
the men received many an invitation to
“ ’ave a sup.” At first they were raw to
English drinking habits. One day four
or five were lined up at the bar by
invitation, when a tankard was pro-
\dded, in cockney fashion, for all to
drink from. The first lancer didn’t
know the “game,” so when the
vehicle—containing two quarts —
was handed him, he didn’t bring it
down until he had drained it !
Then, how the degenerate London-
ers cheered him ! The prestige of
the N.S.W. Lancer Regiment in
beer-drinking was afterwards un-
challengeable.
“ Brumbie ” : I know a far-
mer in Burrowa (N.S.W.) dis-
trict who gives one of his cows
skimmed milk daily. She waits
at the dairy-door every morning
for the milk to be skimmed.
When the milk, often a large
dishful, is put out to her she
greedily drinks it and goes off to
feed. This cow yields much more
and richer milk than any of the
others. Is this sort of thing eommon ?
« » * *
Recently a traveller, representing a Melb.
produce-export firm, journeyed out Orange
(N.S.W.) way to buy rabbits. He came back to
Sydney rabbitless —prices were prohibitive. Crops
have failed ; stock is dying wholesale ; there
is no water, grass, confidence, or credit between
the mountains and Bourke. Yet the trapper who
can snare a dray-load of rabbits with a stick put
up the price so high that the rabbit business fell
through.
• * * *
While Queensland Govt, legislates against
prickly-pear as a pest, Queensland farmers are
finding it a veritable stand-by in drought time. It
is boiled in big tanks and mixed with a certain
amount of bran and served to cattle. In India
they don’t call it a curse but a blessing.
* * * *
How things are inN.Q. ! The manager of
a station recently told a shearer, waiting for the
shed to start, that he would either have to pay
cash for the grass his horse ate, or do fencing as
an equivalent.
• * * •
A Vic. female rabbit-trapper, who applied
for a pension, was refused on the ground that she
made a living by trapping. Two little boys at
Flinders (Vic.), aged five and six years, have for
about a year been making two and three shillings
each week by trapping bunny or running him
into logs with dogs.
“T’othersider”(W. A.): Travelled recently
from Northam to Perth (W.A.) in the same
carriage as three cohentingenters. They had
landed, at Albany a couple of days before. We
asked one of them what he thought of the Hand-
cock-Morant affair. “ There’s no points in taking
prisoners,” he said, reflectively. “ You know we
only get four biscuits a day for rations, and our
officers tell us if we take prisoners we’ll have to
feed ’em out of that. So, when we do take ’em —”
he paused and laughed. “ I suppose you let them
go?” said my mate. “Let ’em go,” growled
another soldier of the Empire, “put a bullet
through the blankers.” They said a good many
more things concerning the conduct of this
“humane war” which, if true, would make the
allegations of the continental newspapers appear
but mildly censorious.
“ Monowai ” :
Be animal suffer-
ing :
Descartes held that
animals did not feel,
and were merely cun-
ningly constructed
automata whose move-
ments we naturally
but mistakenly inter-
pret in terms of feel-
ing. Then, according
to Shakespeare, the
“poor beetle” we
tread on experiences a
“pang of sufferance”
as great as “when a
giant dies.” Between
these extremes there
is room for an infinite
variety of opinion ;
and science seems to
have said little except
that both extremes are
to the last degree im-
probable. It seems
pretty certain that
animals do not feel so
much as sentimental
ladies (if there are any
in Australia) imagine ;
but, on the other hand,
no one who knows
aught of the nerve-
structure of the higher
animals can doubt that
the volume of suffer-
ing during an Aus-
tralian drought must
be appalling. And the
normal squatter’s cal-
lousness to it is yet
more appalling. I
know of one who philo-
sophically observed: “Well, it takes 20,000 sheep
to manure my run.” “Steele Rudd” affords a strik-
ing instance of callousness to animal suffering. How
many comic incidents in “Our Selection” turn on
the torture of some poor beast, for which the -author,
whether by art or nature, betrays no sympathy.
Now, is this callousness normal or abnormal. Is the
Australian on the land forced into brutality by circum-
stance ? I put this question to a Riverina squatteuse or
squatteress the other day. “ Well,” she said, “ you don’t
expect men to be tender-hearted.” One excuse plainly
will not serve : “Nature is so brutal that we learn the
trick of her. When we see her starving millions of sheep
in the hush, how expect us to be particular about driving
a sore horse, or about being merciful in our necessary
slaughter of rabbits and wallabies?” This will not do.
Nature produced no sheep or cattle in Australia. They
are a human importation, and man must bear the blame
for their suffering. Would not a law against overstocking,
i.e., stocking without some water-provision for bad years,
be both economically and morally justifiable ? At present
squatting seems to be a wild gamble on the off-chance of
a good season. And I pity the poor counters, who haven’t
the excitement of the gamble, more than the poor
squatters, who have.
* * * *
Quirk, McLeod & Co., of Wellington,
N.S.W., have the season’s record for a stack of
wheat. At their sheds they have stacked 53,000
bags of wheat, weighing 5,800 tons.
* •
At one station between Rockhampton and
Mackay, (Q.) 35 men called for rations in one
day. Men are making north in droves from all
drought-stricken districts. Apropos, a P.M. in
a Q. town told writer t’other day that lie issued
orders for rations in one day to 30 men and 10
women. Happy Queensland !
“T.L.”: Re “J.A.C.’s” (8., 26/2/’O2)
method of finding the compass-points with a
watch, let him try it at 9 a.m. and at 3 p.m. and
he will find a big difference. The true North can
be found by his method at 12 noon exactly, given
the watch is correct.
* * * *
What is described as a simple and in-
genious method of making a common tin-billy,
with the addition of a strip of mathematically-
ruled paper, serve both as a clock and
compass is explained in an article con-
tributed to W.A. Education Circular by
Govt. Astronomer Cooke. The idea is a
capital one, and if the explanation, which
is a newspaper column long, could be grasped by
the average swaggie the adoption of the billy com-
pass and sundial might save life and much
blasphemy. But until the stroller Out Back learns
enough “elementary spherical trigonometry” to
wrestle with a formula like “ tan a equals sin 1 tan
h ” he will probably continue to carry his gold
repeater, or, in emergency, ask the nearest police-
man.
• • * »
Q. Labor member “ Bill ” Hamilton tells
a woeful tale of the drought in his electorate.
Said electorate, by the way. is nearly as big as
Victoria, and almost as large as Southern Queens-
land-being 84,300 sq. miles in area. At Boulia
township the inhabitants have had fresh meat
twice in twelve months, and this only when a
neighboring squatter found a couple of beasts
worth slaughtering and generously distributed the
beef all round. At Warenda Station (a run of
4000 sq. miles), which used to muster 50,000 cattle,
there is not a single beast fit to kill, and the
station people are living on tinned meat. Very
few hands are employed, and the majority have
drifted “ out where the dead men lie.”
• • • *
“ Indra ” : The back-country sheep are
eating dead rabbits. I didn’t believe it till, the
other day, I heard that sheep on a station out
from Darren were dying through eating poisoned
bunny. They not only eat dead rabbits, but
charred bones, bits of paper, fur, and wool; the
latter they are constantly to be seen pulling off
one another's backs, presumably for the clover
burr tangled therein. Truly, the poor “monkeys”
are having a bad time, and when rains and frost
corps the mortality will increase.
» * » *
“F.C.” : No scientific, cocksure person
having arisen to contradict “Jack a’ Club’s’
(B. 10/5/’O2) assertion about a “ natural compass
in the shape of a green, shield-back insect that
always turns, moves and faces towards the south,”
I venture to diffidently remark that there must
be quite a stack of these rep iles somewhere on
the north bank of the Murray waiting for a dry
season so that they can get across.
FAME.
SALTBUSH BILL : “What’s the ole parson so 'augty an' proud about
lately, Maria? Is ’e gain' ter the Corn’ation, too ?”
MABIA: “Now, dear, ave’n’t yer heard — ’e’s a brother ter the 'roo what
died from plague down at Sydney.”
Tale of woe told by the father of a re-
turned Vic. colientingenter :—“ My son got on
grand for awhile, and was gittin’ a splendid lot
o’ things together. He sent us over some months
ago, a bee-utiful tablecloth, worth about eight
pun’, and a lot of bee-utiful wall-pockets. By
gum, they Boer women mus’ be pretty smart with
the needle! Well, he got enteric, and’ad to go
into horspital, and his blanky mates shook every-
think he had collected, and even got at ’im for his
own watch. Fine lot o’ cows they are ! He sez
he wouldn’t trust ’em further ’n he could throw a
blanky bullock by the tail.”
OVER THE STOCKYARD RAILS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
N.S.W.
Hard by the bells are jingling,
The nags are feeding near,
The quaint bush sounds come mingling
With memories that are dear ;
The warm night-wind caresses
As o’er the grass it sails,
Like Nelly’s soft brown tresses
Across the stockyard rails.
She was a “ free selector,”
Her beau a station swell,
And “ Dad ” was the objector
When I went courting Nell;
But Nelly met me slyly,
Though ha was hard as nails—
And, oh I she kissed me shyly
Across the stockyard rails 1
Now, many years have vanished,
And many girls I’ve kissed ;
Some long-from memory banished,
Some dear ones sadly missed ;
And these' come gaily trooping
From ’yond the yester veils,
And once again I’m stooping
Across the stockyard rails.
Ah, girls will love a rover—
And pretty lips are met,
On every track a drover
Has ever wandered yet.
So Love must wait and languish
Where wand’ring life entails
A parting kiss of anguish
Across the stockyard rails.
Now in the autumn mellow
Sweet faces come in train,
All smiling round a fellow
Who may not kiss again !
But, oh ! the fire burns brightly,
And Memory gladly hails
The kisses Nell kissed nightly
Across the stockyard rails.
EDWARD E. SORENSON.


FOR
WOLFES SCHNAPPS.
•
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
h
WEPPIN6 OUTFITS
In Spoons and Forks and Knives
C E C C
Entree Dishes
Vegetable Dishes
Soup Tureens
Cruets
c C c c
Table Vases
Serviette Rings
Toast Racks
Tea Sets.
Our Stock of Solid Silver is large. All Table Accessories we stock in
very large variety.
WE DO MORE
We are still selling- MAPPIN & WEBB’S MANUFACTURES
at the London Catalogue Price.
Send for a Catalogue. The goods are the best made in England.
FAIRFAX and ROBERTS,
London Prices.
Plain Figures.
Strictly Cash.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Syduey,
23 HUNTER STREET.
PEOPLE WE PUT ON THE LAND.
IRATE POULTRY FANCHER : "Mary, what's the matter with the brutes: had
them two years, and they've not laid yet?"
MARY: "P'aps they're fighting about which'll lay first."
Grafton (N.S.W.) bore, down about
i \ , 7 , . ’ , ttt 1 •
4000 ft., has not met any artesian water. Work is
now stopped. The cost, about £12,000, would
have given the town a water-supply from one of
the tributaries of the Clarence. But the work
has done something towards proving two things:
that the coastal belt is not artesian, and that
there is no seam of coal (as was supposed by geo-
legists) within a payable depth on the north coast.
mi it" t *,,-r n ttt \
The M Donald and Peel Rivers (N.S.W.)
are said to be lower than they have been for 40
and 60. years respectively.
“Itftick” tells a
story of White upon
Yellow -
Sing (under-porter at
the hotel I stay at in the
far North-West) is a
particularly ugly China-
man. When I asked him
why he had married a
white girl he became
frantic with excitement.
“Why me mally white
girl ? Me no want to
mally white girl. Me
wanted to go to my
countly and mally China
girl. But me rich. Me
pearler. Me say to white
girl—‘ You no mally
Chinaman, you mally
white man. ’ Then she
cly, cly, cl.v, and say me
made her heart shy, me
made her heart ashamed.
Then me c 1 y and go
away. Me hide out in
my boat—me tink me go
away to my countly and
mally China girl. Me
clawl in. No one see
me. Then when night
come, me come up for
wind to blow on me. Me
see boat come, and me
hide again, quick, quick,
but they find me. Girl’s
mudder come, say ‘ Sing,
you mally her. You bad
man ; me tell pleceeman.
You come mally her
now.’ Next day they
take me to pliest feller —
white gfirl there too, all
dress wellv ni’ —and
pliest feller talk-talk at
us, and then they say
you mally now, Sing.’
Well, me mally her two,
thlee week, then she ple-
tend me dlunk. Me no
dlunk ! M e n o have
money now, and me rich
pearler. She got money
—her mudder got money,
and her bludder got
money, all lich” —Sing’s
voice rose higher and
higher—“ all Sing’s pearl
money ; only Sing poor !
One day she come to me
with paper, talk all over
it. She say, ‘ All ni’ and
plitty; you put mark
here, Sing. This show
you mally me. Pliest
give it to me.’ She make me put mark on the paper. Me no
more tink. Then, bimeby, there come a baby, and white
girl die”—Sing cackled in fiendish triumph—“yes, she
die ! Then me went on my boat, and then her bladder,
• Clear off this boat,’ he say. My boat, my pearler-boat
—again Sing’s voice reached Ein ,alt. —‘ This boat mine !'
He make me sore with kicks, and me go to pleeceman.
But her bludder show him two paper-talks—one she show
me and one new one. Pleeceman look, then say, ‘ Clear
out! Not your boat—Aim boat.’ So her bludder get my
boat. Me poor now. But she die ! yes, she die 1 ”
“ Omicron ”
tells how one
debbil - debbil
was started :
In ’72 I was
boundary-riding on
Tarrawingee Sta-
tion, N. Q. The
back of the run was
then inhabited by
a tribe of blacks,
who gave comidrr-
able trouble by
spearing cattle.
Visiting one of the
huts, my first
night’s rest was dis-
turbed by the noise
of a corroboree in
t’’e black camp;
ditto next night.
I determined to
remove the cause.
On asking German
Bill (the regular
tenant of the hut)
for some gunpow-
der to make a
flare-up, he entered
into the plot, and
agreed to make a
fine rocket. Dark-
ness came, and I
crawled to a knoll
about 50yds. from
the bi’llabong,
struck a match and
lit the fuse. It had
been insufficiently
damped, and, in-
stead of smoulder-
ing, flashed. A
sudden flare-up
made me spring to
my feet in surprise,
and the blacks saw
a great blaze and
the figure of a man
with arms out-
stretched. Then
came a bang, and
with a great hiss
he seemed to go
skywards with a
huge trail of fire.
In reality I turned
and ran. But a
shriek of terror
went up from the billabong, and then not a sound was
heard. To this day nearly all tribes near there repeat
a ] e 0 f the debbil-debbil, and it is quite impossible to
get one near the billabong at night,
* • * •
jn the ’93 Queensland flood many bridges
were washed away, and, in many cases, low-level
bridges were bl / ilt to rO pl aco them. People
grumbled and recko ned that next flood would
° TOrk destruction again. Nine years ago !-And
they haven’t had enough water since to float a
10-footer. The politicians don’t exactly say that
they knew this’d be, but it is about the best run
of good luck on record for lazy political shift-
lessness.
WHEN MONARCHY IN GENERAL COMES TO THIS IT
WILL AT LAST BE IN ITS PROPER CONDITION.
This is a photo, of the king of the Nogoa River district, Queensland,
taken at Wharton Creek station. His Majesty is supposed to be over
100 years old. He is quite blind, cannot stand, and voice and hearing
are both nearly gone. Blacks’-protector Meston was written to, and now
the Government supplies the king with rations.
“ F.A.8.” to The Bulletin :
Re M'Cooey’s explanation re earless pigs on Buckyinguy
Station, Macquarie River (B. 17,5/’O2). What is he giving
us ? Pigs’ snouts were paid for by the Stock Board a few
years ago ; never heard of them being scalped. Buttabone
Station was the first to thin them out with phosphorus,
which killed them in thousands and possibly accounts for
the earless pigs. (Rabbits lose their ears very often after
recovering from phosphorus poisoning).
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of Uny State) accompany.
Elo: The differenoe between the orthodox be-
liever and the unbeliever is mainly that the former is of
opinion the Deity works the universe by hand and the
latter thinks it is done by machinery. The unorthodox
reckon that there is a perfect, elaborate and unalterable
series of laws which keep the universe going smoothly
towards its destined end, whatever that end may be. The
orthodox hold that the Deity is always (at the instigation
of the orthodox, expressed in prayer) lifting it by hand
over the big ruts where the imperfect scheme of things
has got bogged (the ruts being pointed out by the ortho-
dox). The unorthodox hold that the Great Builder, who-
ever He might be, constructed the mechanism of the huge
vessel so well that it can voyage without him in absolute
safety. The orthodox hold that He constructed it so
badly that He has to run bellin'l all the time and push.
The explanation is that orthodoxy . was invented
at a time when there was practically no machinery,
when almost everything was done by hand, and
when the builder always ran behind and pushed....
A. A. : We don’t profess to have in our mind’s eye all the
countless millions of written things which are worth
stealing, but once having detected anyone in a palpable
theft we look upon his (or her) copy with incurable
suspicion... .G.CJ. VV. : Your autumn Is not an Australian
autumn, and we haven’t time to attend to the weather-
poetry of other countries E.G.B. : Your pretty ode
only shows that you know nothing of the aborigines....
Gniega : Your “ Sing hey ” not robust enough. You want
to put lots of meat into a poem that begins “ Sing hey.”
J.D.M. : Exactly. Th ■ country having got up a tree
because it wouldn’t pay reasonable taxation and build its
public works out of revenue, and having borrowed till it
has the biggest debt on earth, and being still too lazy to
pay its way, and still borrowing, the simplest proceeding
is to curse somebody else. And the Civil Service is a
handy thing to curse... .J.H.M :No graces-of style;
only a methodical depositing of dry facts in a row. The
most incurable thing on earth is the habit of de-
positing dry facts in a row R.E.H. : “Smith” is
one of the old seed jokes of the earth. The twins
joke dates back to the time when our very remote
ancestress reared her family in the tree tops L.O. :
You say the goat is a filthy animal and its flesh unfit
for human food. Then you mean to set yourself up against
Moses as an authority on dietetics? Go to !.. ~L. J. 8.:
Bulletin is not supplied free to public reading-rooms,
and its proprietary rejoices whenever it is, on any pre-
text whatever, ejected from such institutions. This
paper is a soulless commercial concern, published weekly,
price sixpence.... Sligo : The first thing for the poet
to learn is not to “ try ” : if you’ve got to pump up
your inspiration it is always muddy H.E.R. :
Your story in twins and seven spasms cheerfully
rejected... .P.M. : You tackle a difficult psychological
study and don’t quite succeed : the suicide seems almost
causeless... .Les O. : Your logic is out in its first two
steps. The idea of a totally new thing could never precede
experience ; in short, you can’t imagine on no foundation.
... .S. Sunley, or T. Tunlag, or F. Semlif: The only thing
that is more illegible than your signature is your poem.
Only thing we can read is the title, which is either “ I
Remember,” or “If Jumbo.”... Bob. R. :If these “ well-
to-do persons are taking pensions for their parents without
their parents’ knowledge,” who applied for the pensions,
and who forges the old people’s signatures? A.
Peto : How would it be to marry your own daughter to a
Japanese and thereby prove your belief in all that
rot? Said rot, by the way, has nothing to do with the
case. The question is whether, because Britain makes a
profit’out of the Jap., the people of Australia shall have
to live with him. And the low-grade Jap. who comes
here isn’t at all like the imaginary flowery, poetic Jap.
you maunder about... .Tempe : You give, as an instance
of “ chivalry,” the case of a medico who, when his wife
was a wreck through the use of opium, was unfaithful to
her and gave facilities for divorce. Well, it may have been
justice, but it’s not exactly our notion of “ chivalry.”....
H.J. : Disfigured by too many smart strokes of pseudo-
observation. Such things are merely echoes D.S. :
You practically accuse the man of murder after he has
been acquitted. It’s 40 (o 1 that he is guilty, but we’re
not going to say so, even on the oaths of 40 archangels.
R.O. : Just three lines of your “Ode on the Fall of
O’Sullivan ” :
I fell as Satan did :
He from Miltonic splendors, I
From the Pinehgut Pyramid,
as a warning to O’S. of the sort of poetry that
may be written about him some day Mary S. :
A London mean-street sketch, as foreign to Aus-
tralian interest as the cuneiform inscriptions
W.B.C. : That’s all right, but at the Carbineers’ court-
martials half-a-dozen officers swore to the murdering of
prisoners being fairly usual, and if the trial had been at
Pretoria and not at Pietersburg, there would have
been (we have it on good authority) quite 6) ready
to swear to the same facts. How can we help
believing in atrocities under the circumstances?,,....
L. Colonna : Pars, will duly appear... .P.O.C. : Life’s too
short to advertise everybody Spare-me-days : Clumsy.
and humorless... .J. J.O. (Melb.): Pars, dealing with live
subjects in a well-informed way will be acceptable....
A.H. : Returned without a smile E.J.S. : Don’t like
to touch that Judge incident: it seems to smell loudly
from both sides H.JVL : Possibly use one.. Haviland :
Not up to mark... .E.W.P. : “On the Shore” is off our
beat.. ..Vincent H. : Alt right, but Tennyson said it in a
sentence H.C.R. : You send us back (“ hoping it will
now,” etc.) in lengthened form what we’ve already called
“doggerel.” What a noble humorist you are!.. ..John
Leneham? Your MS. utterly illegible L. (Geelong):
Better send that sort of thing to the Melb. weekly which
lives on it. ...N.S. (Tas.): Too long-winded to have any
chance here J.M.B. (M.L.): Not up to standard
D.H. : Point too small.. . .Inshallah : Camel yarn uncon-
vincing. .. .Kodak: “ Reverie” just misses... .Walter M.:
Your faults are rather lack of consagutiveness and
coherence in thought. “ Defeated,” for instance, might
just as well be headed “ Victorious,” so far as half its
verses are concerned Y. J. (Maoriland): Good material,
but poor story James W. (Brisbane): Thanks. May
use Bullaman : The substance of your cattle-yarn was
here given long ago Will. J. : Reply must have been
to someone else of same initials... .K.C.Y. : Story rather
dry. Feel very sorry for the horse, though.... Kitchen
Refuse : Items not good enough ; yet they are
above the average of the mass of stuff that reaches us.
The demand for that kind of work is limited. If you
could write interesting paragraphs on matters of personal
observation there might be a show A.B.C. : No, her
marriage would not be legal unless she knows of his
death. Why not get a divorce on ground of desertion ?..
Sernulia : “Cockney ” nearly good enough—not quite
Londoner: 3 per cent, for 12 months; 3J per cent, if
fixed for two years... .A.H.T. ; Very dull F.A.M. :
Story very chestnutty, and verse not good enough to
carry it... .Bulletin Subscriber for 14 years: Captain
Cook landed at Botany Bay in April, 1770... .Sauna’s
Post: Joke too like fact, and fact is mostly dull
Amati: Dry tale of an old dry war. Even the “ ach ” of
the Prussian colonel doesn’t make it life-like... .Bulletin
Student: Good, but unpublishable Maorilander :
Well, the Maorilander who wrote these things differs from
you, and Tiie Bulletin knows that Maor lander
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS
Richard, C.B. : None acceptable... .G.F.: We don't
gibe at our own policy; thanks....W.W.S. : Excellent
idea. If it is all your own, you should persevere with
your drawing, which promises we 11... .Grasstree : One
old and from Bulletin, t’other snapless T.A.L. :
Stamps should not be sent by letter, but lightly stuck on
face of drawing for return... .Moko :No use arguing the
matter. We don’t like the work, and feel that readers
wouldn’t like it either. It would too long to describe
“what’s wrong about it.” We can see nothing right
about it Mabel S. : Snake subject too obvious ; t’other
may possible serve W.P. :No force in those rabbit-
subjects J.O. : Will do as suggestion for artist
H.W.T. : Hopelessly stiff... .Stron : You have yet a long
way to g0....A.W. Mac.: We don’t yearn for verses
already illustrated—prefer to find the illustrations for
ourselves May F. : One may serve A. 8.8. : Accept-
able as a suggestion Ari : Neatly drawn, but subjects
not in Bulletin’s way E, Heilmann : May use shortly.
.. .. Anon : Oat-and-wallaby pierures very interesting, but
with one exception are hardly sharp enough for repro-
duction .. . W.G.G. : The cocky early-rising joke is getting
plaved out. You have a good etching style and should
persevere with your drawing. Also, you must get better
subjects... Butter : Your drawing much improved, but
your subjects are hopeless... Mack (N. Melb.) : Drawing
stiff and legend stodgy ; but you are evidently a student
and should work on.. ..Unavailable : H.R.E. (B.), Lai N.,
W.D.R.8., A.S.M., F.L.M., Col. 0., J.A.P., Mick, 0.A.W.,
H.G. (Manly).
“ Alba ” tells The Bulletin he has solved
what is known as the “Great Pig-feeder Mystery”:
He is a stout elderly gent, who has dined at a certain
Sydney restaurant for two years. When he enters, and is
seated, the waiter, without taking his order, calls gently
to the cook, “ Pig’s fry without! ” and brings it chortling
hot to the stout gent, who sits bolt-upright, glares at the
plate, curses the waiter’s boots, eyes, and hair, but
finally gulps down the fry. This has been going on for
nearly two years. Meeting him one day at a club, he ex-
plained the mystery of the fry: “The cursed farce is
the result of a wager made two years ago. A wealthy
friend of mine observed my tendency for pig’s fry, and
offered to bet me a big sum that I couldn’t take it for
dinner every day for two years. I took up the bet because I
had a genuine liking for pig’s fry then. The keeper of the
restaurant I frequent is stake-holder and referee. Well,
for the first three months, and up to the sixth,
I only thought eating fry a bore. At the ninth
month the sight of fry made me feel that my
eyes were changing color; my tongue used to
go dry ; I had to stiffen myself with brandy before I
could face the plate. Now, in the 18th month I can hear
pigs squealing when the mess is put before me. The cook
is an inhuman beast, giving me the same shaped curly bit
of liver, the same bit of white, underdone bacon every
day, not a scrap of potato, not a scrap of meat to help it
down. The referee is not so hard ; he told me that I
might have a week’s rest from fry, but that I’d have to
make it up at the quarter’s end. So Igo on a burst of
curry and rice and stewed tripe for a week, but it only
prolongs the agony ; I have yet to make up my deficit of
pig’s fry by the end of next week.” He sighed wearily
and took out a green cigar. “I avoid the streets
where butchers hang out pigs. I compel my family to
eradicate pig from their conversation. All pictures
and books in my house containing suggestions of hog have
been destroyed. I lightened things last week by going on
a burst of pickled herrings. I am subject to attacks of
pig-delirium. White pigs creep into my room at night
and sit in the corners watching me. At midnight they
make noises. The doctor has ordered me a diet of poultry
and green vegetables. I have six months to go before I
have completed my 730th plate of fry. And after
winning the money thej' will call me”—he wiped
his hot face—“ The Pig’s Fry Martyr.” He stole
into the street sorrowfully, his eyes fixed on the pavement.
At that moment, several wild-looking men rushed from
the direction of Sussex-street, shouting furiously at a herd
of small black pigs, that squealed and ran between horses’
legs and under passing carts, fairly blocking traffic. The
martyr looked up suddenly, covered his eyes, and ran
blindly into a pub.
Debility and Dyspepsia.
SWEPT AWAY BY
DR. WILLIAMS’ PINK PILLS.
“It is as far back as 1893,” said Mr. Matthew
Abberton, of Mummell, near Goulburn, “that
the pains of dyspepsia first became severe. For
some time previous I had been gradually becoming
debilitated. Then my liver became congested,
and this‘’brought on dyspepsia, kidney troubles,
and severe internal complications. As a result
I was afflicted with sleeplessnes, and heart palpi-
tation on the least exertion. I was restless all
night, and rose in the morning almost as tired as
when I had gone to bed. Although my appetite
became poor, and I did not eat much, still I felt
excessively full after meals. Thus, what with
want of sleep and proper nourishment, I lost flesh,
and grew weak and dispirited.”
“Did you have medical attention?” the inter-
viewer asked.
“Yes, four doctors attended me during my
nine years of suffering, but their treatment did
not mend matters.”
“ Did'you try advertised medicines ? ”
“Yes, I did, but without effect, until a friend
persuaded me to begin taking Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills for Pale People. From the first these pills
appeared to suit me.. After taking two boxes I
was vastly improved ; I slept better, and the
lassitude and disinclination for work totally dis-
appeared. I felt brighter and more hopeful than
I had been for years. Five more boxes completely
cured me. Now I eat heartily, and sleep soundly,
and you can see by my appearance that I am in
excellent health. Those who suffer from dys-
pepsia or debility will, I believe, in most cases,
find a cure in Dr. Williams’ pink Pills for Pale
People.”
Thousands of cases of obstinate liver and
digestive troubles have been cured by Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills. First, move the bowels
freely with a simple aperient; then take one of
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills after each meal. For the
second week take two after each meal; and in
severe cases three may be taken. A cure will be
sure to result. By their combined action in build-
ing up the blood and strengthening the nerves,
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills cure neuralgia, St.
Yitus’ d'ance, hysteria, nervous exhaustion in men
and women, rheumatism, lumbago, bronchitis,
chest complaints, anaemia, diarrhoea, etc. Ladies
will find them of inestimable value at all times of
life, whilst their health-building properties induce
a beautiful complexion. They are obtainable
from chemists and storekeepers, and the Dr.
Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney,
*2/9 per box, 6 boxes 15/3, post free. When pur-
chasing be sure to ask for “ Dr. Williams’ ”—imi-
tations are useless.


* ' 'P’ -r-■«n /Mr
*! >/ ! lEWlsn! -w^Y
jf h A
iISW
i jiiji ill 111 m 1
111 liilil w Wlfli
I 111
II i
111 11111
mBB/M/KSk 111
MPMIIBI
IiIiiHIH
w r
Vw'fa Wf
-tf* tyon«/■ b's
HIM* 1:
jhhhhhh
'i l m Ly
1 I Ij
’ 1 i
iintib2l it ji
IS If ; i ; i i fF-
11111
llllil Isl'i
p^s\
■' y)
Pp |Jf jU
*/ j Covi
j>€c|>Sc.
h ejyf s Kr 11
‘^“ v 7, Weil Wipr i
-%ere We W A o»r aWT s +'
►Teite |i«srt«-*>ii%;'.fi*f or
ilia Islii lipililfc l o ila ■
P* 4» kfe 1 Missieft ■«■ I
MELBOURNIANA.


■** The batch of strangers described as Greeks'
have taken up their abode under canvas on the
■flat close to Bondi Beach, The adult males
have not so far entered any form of regular 1
occupation, but the "women set to work as
palmists immediately after their arrival, to
reveal ‘the mysteries of the future and give, an
account of the past. How they managed to
prove they were entitled to Australia’s protec-
tion as citizens, in view of the immigration
restriction law, is not quite blear.”— Syd. D..T.
I£t te “ quite clear " that they must have passed the
reading test, being able to “read” the future—
which is more than John . ''U
See can .do. Jz
Touching those “ creameries and »
'butteries ” which Mr. Seddon hopes
to see in S’Africa.
Of course Mr. Cohen will do
the milking.
Map of Africa as it appear?
now daily, per cable.
ABT MATTERS IN SYDNEY.
—From a tketch by a young art-ftudenH.
GORY DICK’S LATEST.
Mr. Seddon has cabled to his Government from Johannesburg that
unless the 10th Contingent (now within a few days of Durban) hurried up,
it would be too late to take part in the war.
"The following is an extract from a pathetic appeal recently sent out hytbe
Sydney Water arid Sewerage Board.
Metropolitan Board of Water Supply and Sewerage.
Owing to the continuance 01 tne urrpreeefTehCed" "drought from
which the State of New South Wales .....
The Board feels confident that the good sense'and judgment of
the Citizens will ensure the success of its appeal, and render recourse to
other and sterner measures altogether unnecessary.
By order ot the Board,
>"V£oiCE FKOM THE Batit-tttd //_ y j ry ~ _
'Nice timemf day to talk of that T judgßaellt4
of some of. that years ago, when you saw the t °,!? Ve made u " e
.taking the spppjy. Dash your ” lncreased d «mand over.
The Truly Good of Sydney have started the
usual periodical crusade against barmaids
At a recent meeting one of the speakers (a
parson) said There was ample employment
for. the. young women in domestic situations at
a good rate of wages. He considered reason-
able notice should be given to barmaids before
they were deprived of their situations ”
Barmaid : “ But' what can I do ?—Oh ' will you
employ me .in your family as a domestic
servant ?
Mr. Stiggins : “ Well, er-the fact is; Mrs.
Stiggins is very wel! Buited just at present.”
CARTOONLETS.


Key,
£3los.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUSHMEN AND MINERS.
ROTHERHAM SPECIAL MADE ENGLISH
LEVERS, Pull Cap, Hand Finished, Extra
Jewelled Works, Perfect Timekeeper, with Pure
Silver Cases, Dust and Water Tight. £3 10s.
Extra Quality, with Chronometer Balance,
£4 10s, £5, £5 10s, £6, £7, £8 ;
Solid Gold, £lO, £l5. £2O.
A written certificate for 3,4, and 5 years.
Try one ; you null not regret it.
Keyless,
JSS.
freetra.de
PRICES.
A. SAUNDERS.
Stroup:, Reliable LEVERS, “ Xlie Challenge,” 15s.
The Unrivalled Lever, in Black or Nickel, 20s ; perfect
timekeeper. The .London Lever, new |-plate model,
25s ; m Solid Silver, £2 2s; in Double Case, £2 10s, £3.
Rotherham LEVERS, £3los, £4, £5, £6, £7, £B. Bold
WATCHES, £4 4s. £5 ss, £(5 6s, £7 10s. £lO, £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O. Mind, we guarantee you the utmost satis-
faction, “ otherwise we will exchange watch for you.’’
Send for Illustrated book of particulars, post free.
NO
ADVANCE.
20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Unrivalled non-magnet LEVER.
Perfect Timekeeper, Screw Cases,
dust and water tight, 20s.
A written Guarantee given with
each Watch.
20s.
Black or
Nickel,
30s.
■w.
V
A;
n>
PS
-as
“ FLY-BACK CHRONOMETERS.”
These we ha ye at Every Price and Style. In Solid
Nickel or Black, 30s ; Extra Quality, £2, £2 10s ;
Split Seconds, £3 LOs. Pure Solid Silver, £5, £6, £7,
£B, and £lO ; Solid Gold, £l5, £2O, £25, and £3O.
A written certificate for 2,3, 4,5, and 6 years.
TRY ONE.
Silver,
£b.
Solid
Silver,
£2 10s-
MERIC
' 1
IMI
.
¥\ •
■
mm
m
WALTHAM LEVEES.
We are Special Direct Agents.
Pure Solid Silver Hunting Cases, Extra
Quality Movements,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, and £5 ;
Gold Patent Cases, Walthams, £4 4s, £5 ss;
Solid Gold, £7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O,
and £25.
Gold
Cases,
M 4s.
Solid Gold CHAIN (Single or Double), £2 10s,
£3, £3los, £4, £4 10s, £5. 15ct. Solid Gold, £5 10s,
£6, £6 10s, £7. £B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d,
15s, 20s. Send for Price Illustrated Book.
15ct. Gold Bar and Scroll BROOCH, Pearls and
Red Stones, 355. Quite New.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Motto Registered Gold “ Dinna Forget ”
BROOCH and Amethysts, 9ct. Gold, 17s tid ;
15ct. Gold, 30s ; ISct. Gold, 355.
15ct. Gold, Extra Strong, wi h First-class
Opal, £2 5s ; similar, 355, £2, and £2 10s.
15ct. Gold, Diamond and 2 Rubies, 22s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
(Registered) Gold Secret Name BROOCH
loot. Gold* Diamonds, £2 10s, £3, J 64.
Any Name or Motto Free.
Six Different Patterns, Similar.
15ct. Gold 2-Bar Ivy Leaf, Set with Red,
White, and Bine Stones, 22s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Ivy and Pearl Gold BROOCH, 25s ;
9ct. Gold, smaller, 12s 6d.
Jk.
W
A. SAUNDERS.
Newest Solid Gold Name BROOCH. 7s 6d ;
with Raised Eli weis each side (Any Name),
15ct. Gold, 15s. Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. 2-Bar Pure Diamond, Double Cut, £2.
2-Bar Gold Scroll Pearl Set BROOCH, 20s
Hall marked.
h
9ct. Gold Square or half-round BRACELET,
3 Red or Blue Stones, £2.
Very Neat and Cheap.
m
Ladies’ Curb Gold
Chain, Snap Padlock;
255, 30s, 355, £2 os,
£3 ; 15ct., £2 10s, £3,
£4, £4 10s, £5, £6,
£7 10s, £B, £9, £lO.
10s extra for Key
Padlock.
All with Safety Chain.
A. SAUNDERS.
Nicely Chased Gold BRACELET, 255. Very Neat and Pretty.
Sword and Sheath PAPER CUTTER, 6in. long.
Most Useful Present, 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold BROOCH, 3-Bav Diamond, 12s 6d.
Very Neat.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Wishbone and Arrow, with Red
Stone, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Wish Rone and Forget-Me-Not, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Raised Elowers, 5s 6d.
Larger, 6s 6d and 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Mizpah BROOCH, 2 Hearts, 10s
larger, 12s 6d. A Nice Brooch.
Gold “ Good Luck ” BBOOCH, 10s 6d
loot. Gold, 21s.
10
11
13
12 13 14
A. SAUNDERS’
FREETRADE PRICES.
10. Round LINK, 9ct. Gold, £2, £2los,
£3; 15ct., £4, £5.
11. Rope Pattern, 9ot. Gold, £2, £2los,
£8 ; 15ct., £4, £5.
12. —Curb Pattern, Oct. Gold, £2, £2los,
£3 ; 15ct., £4, £5.
13. —Rope and Ball, 9ct. Gold, £2, £2 los,
£3; 15ct., £4, £5.
14. Curb and Link, £3, £4, £5, £6.
15. —Chain andßondell, £4to £7 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Latest Style, 15ct. Gold Pearl Set Buckte '2-Bai
BROOCH, 32s 6d. English Hall Marked.
A. SAUNDERS.
English Hall Marked 15ct. Gold Ruby and
Pearls, Scroll and Fancy Sides, £2.
18ct.
Solid ■
Gold, £lO
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Solid Gold Keyless WALTHAM
LEVER, Full Jewelled Works. Patent
Action, New Model £lO, £l2 10s.
You Can’t get a Better Watch.
14ct. Solid Gold, £Blos.
Extra
\ Strong,
'£l2los
UFS
ET
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Dinna Forget
10s 6d.
)ur own Registered
Design,
A. SAUNDERS.
CHARM.
New Gold Bell,
7s 6d.
%
F=l
A. SAUNDEBS.
Ladies’ Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless WATCH,
Full Jewelled, 255, 80s, £2,
£2 10s.
Price to quality of works.
Guaranteed 2,8, i years.
ĥ
15ct. Gold
Turquoise
Forget-
me-Not
and
Pearl
Soroll,
20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
eST* ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Silver Hunting Keyless, 255, 30s, £2,
£2 10s, £3.
Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3, £*■, £5 ;
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
ALL GUARANTEED.
Floral
PIN,
Pearl and
Tur-
quoise,
255.
15s
A. SAUNDERS.
Uadies’ Black Keyless WATCH,
Good Timekeeper, 15s ;
Extra Quality, 20s.
Guaranteed.
20s.
Post Card Gold
CHARM, 10s.
Any Name Free.
Silver, gilt, 5s 6d.
Gold Boot
CHARM, 5s 6d.
Latest Style.
Solid
Gold,
£6 10s.
Silver,
£2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
LADIES’ WALTHAM SOLID
GOLD KEYLESS,
f-movement, Chronometer Balance,
Jewelled, Perfect Timekeeper,
Extra Strong Cases.
Full Size, £6 10s : Small Size, £5 10s,
Pure Solid Silver, same works,
£2 10s..
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Pearl and
Turquoise Floral and
Ribbon BROOCH, £2 10s.
London’s Newest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Pearl and
Turquoise Heart
BROOCH, £2 2s.
The Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Solid Gold Opal DINKS,
with Initial. £2 10s.
Extra Strong.
A, SAUNDERS,
Beautifully Chased, 9et. Gold,
large size LINKS, 22s 6d.;
Plain, 21s, or with Initials,
nicely Chased, 22s 6d.
15ct. Gold, £2 ;
Silver, 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
(Registered).
Gold LINKS, 20s;
15ct. Gold, 32s 6d ;
Silver and Gold, 10s ;
all Silver, ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold LINKS,
very pretty, 12s 6d.
Large Size, 15s and 20s.
Silver, 2s 6d and 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
MIZPAH GOLD
CHABM, 4s.
A. SAUNDERS’
Watches,
Clocks,
Jewellery,
and .
Silverplate
AT;
FREETRADE
PRICES.
SAVE 25 PER CENT.
TO 50 PER CENT.
Showrooms :
815 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
. A. SAUNDERS.
18et. SoM Gold, 5 pure
Diamonds, £l2 10s ;
Smaller, £5, £6, £7,
£7 10s, to £3O.
18ct. Solid Gold,
5 Pure Diamonds, £5.
Diamond and
Sapphire or Ruby,
£3 10s ;
larger, £4 10s, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold,
3 Sapphires, Rubies,
or Opals, 4 Diamonds,
£3, £3 10s, £4,
A. SAUNDERS.
Opal Band RINGS,
9ct. Solid Gold, 17s 6d;
15ct. Gold, 30s ;
18ct. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Buttercup Single
Stone Diamond
RING,
£3, £4, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold.
3 Pure Diamonds,
2 Opal Hearts, £4 10?,
Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Solid Gold Buckle,,
17s 6d; 15ct. Gold, 30s
18ct. Gold, £2.
Solid Gold, Turquoise;
and Pearl, 20s.
Newest Style.
m
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Solid Gold, 3 pure
Double-cut Diamonds,
£5, 1 Diamond and
2 Rubies or Sapphires,
£3.
18ct. Solid Gold Diamond
Band, £2. £2 10s, £3;
15ct. Gold, 30s.
18ct. Gold Buckle
RING, Diamond, and
2 Rubies or Sapphires,
£2 Us.
With Name, Band KINGS,
9ct. Solid Gold, 12s6d. 15s;
15ct. Gold, 20s, 25s ;
lSut. Gold, 255, 30s, 355, £2,
GENT.'S KING.
Solid Gold, Amethyst, 25s j
15ct. Gold, £2;
18ct. £2 10-
A. SAUNDERS
Hand-made Wedding RINGS and KEEPERS.
Set. Solid Gold, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s each ; loot. Gold, 15s /
extra heavy, 25s ; 18ct. Gold. 20s ;
extra heavy, 30s, 355, 40s. Send for Card. /
JEWELLER AND SILVERSMITH,
815 AND 817 GEORGEtSTREET,
'A ■
NEARLY OPPOSITE
RAILWAY STATION,
SYDNEY.


Cheapest House in Australia for EDISON
Phonographs » Records
“BIJOU,” with 6 Records .. .. .. .. £1 10 0
EDISON “STANDARD,” with 12 Records ’.. 610 0
EDISON “ HO'IE,” with 24 Records .. .. 810 0
COMBINATION A 1 “GRAND,” taking both
Large and Small Records, with 12 Records, 6
Concert (sin.) Records and Large Horn ..10 10 0
EDISON RECORDS, English and American,
per dozen 100
CONCERT (sin.) RECORDS, per dozen.. .. 3 0 0
Send for Splendid New
Illustrated Catalogue
containing 5000 Selec-
tions to choose from.
Electric Fans, with Bat-
tery, £5 ; Electric Bike
Lamps, 21s ; Flash
Lights, Scarf Pin Lights,
10s 6d; Vapour Bath
Cabinets, 20s; &c., Free.
Records can be posted
to any address.
Machines carefully ,
packed and forwarded!
to any part of Austra-*
lasia.
ħ
RSBVBS & CO.,
KING WILLIAM ST., ADELAIDE
Free Cure
for Men
Send Name and Address To-day
—You can Have it Free, and be
Strong and Happy for Life.
How any man may quickly cure himself after years of
suffering from weakness, lost vitality, varicocele, kidney
disease, insomnia, etc. Simply send your name and
address to Hr. L. W. Knapp, 2727 Huli Bldg., Detroit,
Mich., U.S.A., and he will gladly send the receipt free
L. W. KNAPP, M.D.
with full directions so that any man may easily cure
himself at home. This is certainly a most generous offer,
and the following extracts, taken from his daily mail,
show what men think of his generosity :
“ Dear Sir, —Please accept my sincere thanks for yours
Of recent date. I have given your treatment a thorough
test, and the benefit has been extraordinary. It has
completely braced me up, and you cannot realise how
happy I am.”
“Dear Sir, —Your method worked beautifully. Results
were exac ly what I needed.”
“ Dear Sir, —Yours was received, and I had no trouble
in making use of the receipt as directed, and can truth-
fully say it has been a boon to me.”
All correspondence is strictly confidential, mailed in
plain, sealed envelope. The receipt is free for the asking,
and he wants every man to have it.
Remember, a letter to us from British Isles requires 2Jd.
postage. Write your name and address very plain, or,
better still, enclose a self-addressed envelope, so there
can be no mistake in delivery.
V
Mm
0 I do not ask you to spend
money to teat whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Yitus’
Dance, etc. All I ask of you
is to SEND for a FREE
Bottle and to try it. I abide
by the result. A safe remedy-
approved by the Medical
Profession.
H. G. ROOT, as.Endslelgh
Gardens, London, H.W.
A GIFT FOR THE LADIES.
h
We make this
Special Offer
to advertise
our
Ostrieh
Tips.
5/-
The Bunch
Post Free.
WRITE TO-DAY.
SEND POSTAL NOTES.
TWO VERY SUPERIOR
TIPS, with OSPREYS,
in black, white, orcream,
worth 10/6.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Bourke & Swanston sts , Me: bourne
T\EAR SIR, —I have been cured of Weakness and De
bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr. ROBERT
E. PARKHURST, Pitt-street, Sydney.
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address.— L.D.l., 300 Collins St.j Melbourne
1
” //ever n\ind baby / Jt will soon grow now.”
4 H ARLENE’
Si HAIR.
The very Finest Dressing.
Restores the Hair.
Promotes the Growth*
Arrests the Fall*
Strengthens the Roots*
Preserves the Hair.
Renders It Beautifully Soft*
Removes Dandruff.
Allays all Irritation* •
Preserves, Strengthens, and Invigorates
Childrens’ Hair.
Full description and directions for use in
20 languages supplied with every bottle .
1/-, 2/6, and (triple 2/6 size) 4/6 per
Bottle from Druggists, &c., all over
the World.
Edwards’ Harlene Co.
High Holborn, London , Eng.
Marvellous Effects.
YOUR PICTURES IN SOLID RELIEF.
Q
The
Stereo Weno
For Stereoscopic Pictures upon KODAK
daylight changing cartridge Film.
Price, £6 6s. ° n, ) r -
Send for new Illustrated List, and mention this paper.
KODAK Limited and Reduced,
And of all Dealers.
Collins Street, Melbourne.
2h.p. to IOOH.p.
KING. MARINE OIL ENGINES.
Launches built 20ft. to 80ft. overall.
m
f
m HIM
Noiseless Uuderwater . .
Exhaust.
Perfect Gas Generator.
Double Cylinder.
Automatic Oil Feed.
Simple Electric Ignition
with Dynamo.
J. F.
Telephone 2671.
WITH THE KING ENGINE— ONE LEVER CONTROLS THE WHOLE.
McDBRMOXT & COMIFA-NTY,
37 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
WINCHESTER
SHOTGUN CARTRIDGES
“New Rival" and “Repeater”
.... .<)Wo*llMlolo***fl*>M^Ao*M******iKo^»****^*****^A***l*^*****l^A****" m
F you are looking for reliable shotgun am-
munition, the kind that shoots when you
pull the trigger and where you point your*
gun, buy Winchester Cartridges: “New Rival,”
loaded with Black powder; and “Repeater”
loaded with Smokeless. Insist upon having
Winchester Cartridges, and accept no others.
ALL DEALERS KEEP THEM.
D
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
PLAYS
Catalogue
Free .
French’s Acting Edition.
ĥ
Rare Books
French Novels
Books the Married
Extra Special Catalogue of
Books Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
How to File up the Centuries.
This is a feat best known to cricketers, and of
all cricketers probably those of Australia most
frequently perform the trick. But the best cen-
turies are those which represent years of life. For
a man or woman to become a centenarian is in
itself Nature’s own certificate of a well-spent life
no less than of a sound constitution. Of this, the
better kind of century, Australia has also had a
few notable examples, and we will hazard the
prophecy that she will have yet others. Mrs.
Elizabeth Fuller, of No. 44, Ryder-street, Surry
Hills, Sydney, N.S.W., now 83 years of age, is
still hale and hearty, and, we believe, good for a
further indefinite term of life.
Anybody who lives to the age of 71, as Mrs.
Fuller did, without knowing what it was to be
seriously ill, and then to become ill only as the
result of accident, has something substantial to
boast of. “I was7l,” says Mrs. Fuller, “when I
lost my footing while ascending the stairs, sus-
taining a fractured arm and broken collar bone.
I became an inmate of the Sydney Hospital for
two months and was discharged as cured. My
worst trouble, however, was now about to begin.
In my fall I must have injured the kidneys, for a
dull continuous pain set in in that region which
gave me no rest by day or night. Obstinate
constipation and urinary difficulties were soon
added to my troubles, arising, I believe, from the
same cause. I visited the leading hospitals as an
out-patient, and was also under treatment at my
own home by a lady doctor; but none of the
plasters, liniments, lotions, or other medicines
they gave me, proved of the least use. As time
passed the pain in my back increased so much
that the agony was intolerable, and I felt as if I
could have welcomed death. Such was my con-
dition for two years, wh.m my daughter, Mrs. W.
Johnson, of Arden-street, Waverley, gave me
three of Mother Seigel’s Soothing Plasters, a box
of Seigel’s Operative Pills, and a bottle of Seigel’s
Curative Syrup. The plasters, used in conjunction
with the Syrup and Pills, at once reduced the
backache, and the bowels and other internal
organs, were soon brought into proper working
order. I could eat, sleep, and get about again,
and, in three months, was as well as a woman of
my years could hope to be.”
For many years physicians were of opinion that,
when the human body had reached the age of
three score and ten, it was no longer responsive to
even the most appropriate remedies. That opinion
is now no longer held, and the case of Mrs. Fuller
again disproves it.
A Hopeless Outlook.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, fetch along the washing-tub,
The bucket and the pail,
For I would weep a woeful weep
And tell a tearful tale.
I’m not an educated man,
Nor soulful nor refined,
Yet shed a tear
Because I hear
Lord Hopetoun has resigned !
A tear, said I ? I’ll weep for weeks,
Like every working-man
From Marrickville and Newtown out
To Coonabarabran.
In plagues and droughts and tariff tricks
No cause for grief I find,
But ’tis, you know,
An awful blow,
That Hopetoun has resigned !
“This world is full of blasted hope,”
Our teachers used to say,
But now our one and only Hope
Declares he will not stay !
He only asked for twice the screw
At which he took the job,
So me and you,
And others, too,
Can merely weep and sob !
’Tis true we never blew the froth
Off Hopetoun’s pint of beer,
We only had to ante-up
Ten thousand pounds a year !
These politicians really seem
To be devoid of sense,
Or he would stay
At double pay, ,
At common folks’ expense.
Of course, Lord Hopetoun thought the men
Who guzzled his champagne,
Would raise his screw to any sum
And make things right as rain.
He thought they’d square the Parliament
And make it all the same ;
But half the band
Was frightened and
The other half not game !
Thought he : “ The Guv’ment will resign
Unless the House consents ! ”
Which shows how much he knows about
Australian Parliaments !
Though statesmen dote on banquets and
Delight to dine with nobs ;
The man’s an ass
Who thinks they’ll pass
A Bill to lose their jobs !
You see, Lord Hopetoun only knows
A fat selected few,
And doubtless he was guided by
These bounders’ point of view.
They’d laugh and chaff and say : ‘ ‘ Ha, ha !
What ? Not sufficient screw ?
Please make no fuss,
Leave that to US —
Will Thirty Thousand do?”
And then he’d pour the sovereigns out
In quite a regal way
As Scotchmen very often do
When someone else must pay !
Benevolence—by deputy
Has ever been the pride
Of clansmen keen
Who dwell between
Auld Reekie and the Clyde !
But now he’s spent his blooming splosh
(A pure Australian phrase)
Thev’ve gone and left him in the ditch—
It’s mean in many ways.
It is in fact enough to break
A Caledonian heart!
They will not pay
And yet we say :
“ The best of friends must part ! ”
I would respectfully suggest
(And pray my Lord agree)
A National Testimonial;
The limit, one bawbee,
And then Australia’s working-men
Will raise a mighty cheer
And cry : “Once more
We pay the score
Who never drank the beer ! ”
Alas ! I fear he will not stay
And that is why I weep.
(The buckets and the washing-tubs
Are several inches deep !)
Oh. Barton! keep Lord Hopetoun here,
Oh, do ! for goodness sake !!
For if he goes,
To crown our woes,
Our bursting hearts will break !!!
W. T. GOODGE.


A FREE VETERINARY BOOK.
A most useful V eterinary Book is attached
to every bottle of Condy’s Fluid. This Book
contains instructions for curing most of the
ailments and accidents affecting Horses,
Dogs, Sheep, Cattle and Poultry.
In this Book eminent Veterinary Sur-
geons recommend Condy’s Fluid as a
oertain cure for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs,
Broken Knees, Grease, Thrush and
Cracked Heels in Horses. —Scab, Foot
Rot, Fly, etc., in Sheep.—Hoove, Foul in
the Foot, Wounds and Sores in Cattle.
Condy’s Fluid is made by CcJndy &
Mitchell, Ltd., of 65, Goswell Road,
London, England, and is sold by all
Chemists and Stores. Beware of Colonial
substitutes. Insist on having Condv’sF-lnid.
h
G-O TO HEET.X,-
KiOr-AND for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
HATS.
HATS.
HATS.
BRISBANE.
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fatted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalojue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY * CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 Georgs Street, Sydney
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION i FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Hr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the A action Itootns.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-sb
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Agents for N. S. Wales : Sayers,
Allport and Potter, Sydney. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
There has not been a more interesting
Australian book published for a long time than
“Bushman and Buccaneer”—giving the life and
writings of Harry Morant (“The Breaker”).
Every bush man will want to buy a copy for the
sake of the complete collection of “The Breaker’s”
verses which it contains. The book gives a photo-
graphic reproduction of the “ copy ” of Moran t’s
last verses, written in gaol, and many illustrations,
from authentic photographs, of the Bush veldt
Carbineers’ operations. Price one shilling.
Wholesale from Edwards Dunlop and Co., Syd-.
ney.— Advt.
Sulkies, Buggies, Waggons, Wheels, &e.
Good Work.
Lowest Price.
Cash Only.
SIDNEY SIMPSON, Coachbuilder,, 73 KING STREET, NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Has it been called Astray-lia !
A cold truth from Sydney D.T. :
Britain has absolutely no friends among the nations
except the colored peoples of China and Japan.
Britain has so far spent £225,000,000 on
suppressing the Boers; and how much that money
is required now to suppress Uncle Sam !
If the Indian residents of the Common-
wealth are given—as they request—a special
member of their own, it will, at any rate, give
Australia’s Noblest Son a chance of getting into
next Parliament.
The Australian Governments entrusted
with choosing Australian teachers for the S’African
concentration camps, have been told to remember
in the selection that their work will be of a
“semi-political nature.”
Outside Sydney, N.S.W. has 44 towns of
over 2500 inhabitants. Of these ten —Goulburn,
West Maitland, Grafton, Orange, Liverpool,
Penrith, Dubbo, Hamilton, Lambton, andBourke
—show a decreasing population.
Joseph Chamberlain now calls the Free-
trade doctrine “an adherence to economic pedan-
try and old shibboleths.” Within the last few
years the British person has begun to east quite a
large number of strange bricks at his old god.
SOYLLA.
Peace, posing as virgin however she may,
Is forever a-chiid to War ;
His progeny bark from her womb o’er the bay.
Where Charybdis engulfs the Poor.
Alciierinoa.
See’s Conference of Premiers was very
“ social ” indeed. It was a conference of Premiers’
and Attorney-Generals’ wives far more than one
of male politic ians only. It would be interesting
to learn the total cost, and out of what fund the
money was taken.
There is an. impression now in Federal
political circles that Lord Hopetoun’s resignation
was at least as much due to constitutional as to
financial reasons. Following its usual policy, the
Barton Government is said to have suppressed a
portion of the correspondence relating to the
resignation.
A TIP FOR TOBY.
Visitors are requested to be wary of the lion.
The departmental minute issued by Labor
Minister Perry, intimating that the terms of
N.S.W. Shearers’ Accommodation Act may be
temporarily relaxed or waived by the inspectors,
should refresh the mind of Parliament on one of
its main functions. Whether the minute referred
to be justifiable or not, the fact remains that many
Acts are, from time to time, emasculated by regu-
lations and departmental minutes, and the emas-
culation in almost all cases takes place where em-
pioyers’ interests are concerned. Where em-
ployees complain of the incidence of an Act they
are invariably met with the official information
that while the law is as it is tbe.Government must
do its duty. The employers obtain a relaxing
regulation, or departmental minute ; the em-
ployees must agitate for a repeal of the Act.
Philp talks of reducing the number of Q.
members. But Q. Labor party consists of 24
members, or one-third of the Assembly, and if th e
Laborites object, Philp will need every man-Jack
of his followers and all the six Independents to
get the necessary two-thirds majority—a somewhat
remote prospect.
The chief waverers in the Senate tariff
debate are Simon Fraser, the Vic. Rich Landlord
relic, and Dobson from Tasmania. Simon, at the
elections, was claimed by both high and low
tariffists, and he tries to fulfil the expectations of
all his constituents by voting alternately with the
Government and the Opposition.
Whatever faults and weaknesses they have
seen and deplored in Peacock and his Ministry, it
behoves Vic. democrats to line up in a phalanx
behind him now, for he has definitely put forward
as an essential of his policy the first determined
assault on the Leg. Council stronghold made by
any Ministry since Berry’s disastrous Embassy
failure.
The Defence Department makes a be-
ginning at treating Australia as an entity by wisely
forgetting the N.S.W.-S.A. boundary line and
working Broken Hill in conjunction with northern
S.A. But it is not consistent; it still sends a
Sydney officer all the way round —an unnecessary
2000 miles of travelling—-to put the reservists
through their drill.
Out of 22 Polynesians recently brought to
Bundaberg the local Health Officer refused to
pass 21, on account of defective physique. Here-
upon the gay blackbirders immediately shipped
the whole batch of 5.9. wasters North and landed
them at a port where no exacting official existed.
They’re all grafting now in the cane and getting
ready for the Kanaka cemetery.
Some of the wild curses of N.S.W. anti-
Billites during the Federal campaign are coming
home to roost. To Sydney D.T. (appropriately
enough) falls the task of recording this :
Some members from the other States are beginning to
lay great stress on the need for the Federation having a
port of its own. The peculiar argument is used that the
Federation may at any time be in danger. of civil war
through a rebellion in N.S.W., and that it is imperative
that the Federal territory should be so situated that
communication with it could not be absolutely cut off. by
the insurrectionary State. The idea of a possible rebellion
in N.S.W. is, indeed, entertained by some Federal Repre-
sentatives as a contingency that must certainly be
guarded against.
Sydney Telegraph suggests that it is
only necessary to reduce N.S.W. Assembly—not
the Council; the Government is merely to cease
making new appointments, and the dying-out
process will do the rest. But if the Assembly is
reduced to 80 members, the Council is supposed
to come down to about 40. That means waiting
till about 25 members die off, and by that time the
40 survivors will be of the average and toothless
age of 75. No State can afford to be governed by
men who are so old that it doesn’t matter to them
what happens. Even a Vanderbilt or a Rocke-
feller has no stake in the country worth mention-
ing when he reaches 75.
The cheering news is cabled from China
that war between Russia and Japan is considered
certain and not far off. Japan, apparently, is
hustling for that war with all her might. If it
can be brought on, and if another Power, however
small, can be drawn in along with Russia, then
Britain, by the terms of the treaty which the
Salisbury Government has made, must join in
and lick Russia on Japan’s account. And all this
trouble was brought about to secure British trade
in China, while under the Freetrade system no
trouble at all is being taken to secure British
trade'in Britain’s own ports, and every year a
smaller proportion of the shipping that goes in
and out of Britain’s own ports carries the British
flag, and a larger proportion carries the flags of
other nations.
NOT A JIMMY WOODSER.
HEAVY SWELL ( encountering dead-beat): “’Av a
drink, ole fell'h? Pos’tively carn’t drinsk
by m’shelf.”
DEAD-BEAT: “ Any think to ’blive yer, sir."
“ Micro ” to The Bulletin :
Now that his baptism of malignant criticism has brought
Labor member and Minister Trenwith somewhat to his
bearings and to a sense of his duty to the workers, would
it not be wiser of the workers to drop once for all their
insane jealousies with respect to him, and use him as the
Socialists of France used Socialist Minister Millerand— i.e.,
for the enactment of measures and the carrying out of
administrative policies, which only the tenure of a
Cabinet seat can secure ?
The John See proposal for a referendum
on reduction of members cannot well be opposed
by the N.S.W. Democratic party, but prompt
steps should be taken to put before the voters the
true facts of this alleged “ reform ” movement
—that it is largely Tory, and that local govern-
ment and financial reform combined with the
abolition of the useless Leg.-Council are the real
remedies for present maladministration.
“ Democracy ” puts it very straight :
According to a recent correspondent of yours, Mr.
Trenwith is the ne plus ultra of the Vic. political world.
Aforesaid writer says that only envy or animus could
account for the opposition of Democrats to Mr. Trenwith.
Let us see. Mr. Trenwith voted for the expulsion of
Labor-member Findley, and thus secured a seat to the
Conservatives ; Mr. T. voted against a minimum wage of
£2 weekly to all P.O. employees over 21 years of age ; Mr.
T. voted" for the reduction in old age pensions ; Mr. T.
was a Jingo of Jingoes at Melbourne Town Hall “ Pa-
triotic” meeting, etc., etc.
The Victorian alleged “ reform ” party has
met in public meeting at Melbourne and rejected
Premier Peacock’s reform programme with much
indignant blather. Peacock’s scheme embodied
all the essentials of the Kyabrarn platform, but it
went further and proposed to make both Houses
of the Vic. Parliament thoroughly democratic in
addition to reducing their numbers. That made
the disreputable Tory “reform” party madder
than a wet hen, and it repudiates Peacock neck
and crop.
“ Myall ” to The Bulletin :
Much dissatisfaction is expressed in many parts of the
Central Division, N.S.W,, at the manner in which the
improvement-lease provisions of the Land Act have been
stretched during Minister Crick’s term of office. On one
station in Brewarrina district 80,000 acres were secured as
improvement leases by the pastoral lessees out of an area
of. 100,000 acres of expired leasehold. In Coonamble dis-
trict recently 36,000 acres of some of the finest grazing
land in the Central Division were similarly disposed of to
the station owners. The derhand for land for bona-fide
settlement weekly increases, and the niggardly manner in
which the Dept, offers land for that purpose, lias rendered
the possibility of winning a block at the ballot as remote
as that of drawing first horse in one of “Tatt.’s” big
sweeps. If the improvement-lease policy is pursued much
longer the chances will be even more remote, as the whole
of the expired leases in the Central Division will be
secured by the pastoralists and financial corporations.
Manager Badger (Brisbane Tramways Co.)
thus orated at a recent employees’ banquet
(Courier, May 8th):
He thought Queensland now had a very good Parlia-
ment and a very good Ministry. If he did not think so,
he would stop the trams running within the next 24
hours.
Doubtless Manager Badger, who is being allowed
to cut the throats of State suburban lines by
running parallel tramways wherever he wants to,
has good reason for thinking the Philp-Leahy
combination a “good Government.” What sort
of a despotism, however, exists in the city of
Brisbane when a Yankee hustler can threaten to
stop the trams running in “the next 24 hours,”in
case he doesn’t think the Government a good
Government ?
All the clamor about the necessity of
having two Houses in the State Parliaments is
based on an absurd misconception of their posi-
tion. The Federal Parliament
is the Parliament of Australia
now. The State Legislatures
are only something half-way be-
tween a County Council or
Divisional Board and a Parlia-
ment, and nobody dreams of
demanding that a County Coun-
cil shall have an Upper and a
Lower House. Certainly the-
English people, when they es-
tablished their London County
Council, did nothing so foolish.
This gross neglect of a good
English precedent is going to
make trouble in Australia.
Cohen, Broughton, and the
rest of the “Reduction”
M’s.L.A., keep on crying that,
as the See Government did not
table a Bill to reduce the num-
ber of members in N.S.W. As-
sembly, they, though full of good
intentions, could do nothing
during the last session. The
disingenuous assertion deserves
squashing. It is true that they
could not reduce members on
their own motion, but any one
of them could have moved :
“That it is desirable that the
Government shall bring in a
Bill to reduce,” &c. By
carrying that, they could
have forced the hand of the
Government, accelerated re-
form, achieved fame for them-
selves, and avoided the sus-
picion of being a time-serving
crowd, hastening to grovel </,
public opinion. Yet, not a Cohen
moved, and Broughton might as well
have been glued to his seat.
Colonel Lassetter, back after a long experi-
ence in South Africa, gives a report on the Boer
burgher, the general effect of which is that he is
an intelligent, well-educated and courteous gentle-
man, and that the Australian might do worse
than learn from him in some respects. The men
who have met the Boer appear mostly to talk of
him in that strain. It is the men who never went
within some thousands of miles of him who supply
the information about his ignorance, dirt,
cowardice, and cruelty.
The good old Braddon Blot is the only
thing that stands between Australia and financial
wreck just now. It provides that for ten years
the Federal Parliament may only retain for its
own use one-fourth of the customs and excise
revenue, and if the anti-Australian-industry gang
managed to get the tariff revenue cut down to
£2,000,000 the Federal Government’s share would
leave it so short, unless it levied heavy direct
taxation, that it couldn’t pay Sydney Smith’s
salary. Braddon blotted better than he knew.
Seeing that steps have been taken by the
Presbyterian Assembly to secretly organise the
Protestant vote in Victoria in connection with
religious education, and that there is said to be a
R.O. Defence League in active existence sub rosa,
and that the Yellow Pup is always with us, there
should be a fair supply of red herrings in the not
unlikely event of an appeal to the people over
constitutional reform and Factories Act re-enact-
ment. Breeding red herrings seems to be the
modern rendering of the old maxim of reaction-
aries—“ Divide and conquer.”
The sexagenarian question is being re-
vived in N.S.W. Public Service circles. When
the P.S. Board assumed control it was stated that
a clean sweep would be made of all men over 65
in the service. The Public Service Act practically
**throws the responsibility of retaining the veterans
on to the shoulders of the departmental heads, and
they are loth to turn adrift men of capacity, whose
only offence is that they have grown old in the
service. But the younger men, tired of waiting
for the shoes of their seniors, are always anxious
to put the 65 years’ limit regulation into force.
Perth Morning Herald is crusading for
the abolition of the Westralian border customs on
the ground that
The people are being taxed out of all reason. . . . The
State is getting no advantage in the shape of reproductive
public works from the extra revenue.
Of course, it would be quite as easy to get it
enacted that the proceeds of certain taxes shall be
paid direct into a Public Works Fund for the
building of railways, water-works, telegraphs, &c.,
as to procure the abolition of these taxes. But
where is the Australian paper (The Bulletin
excepted) that will tackle that end of the financial
problem ?
The Kyabrarn crowd all over Victoria are,
judging by the reported names of chairman,
movers, seconders, &c., precisely the crowd that
f§ted and hurrahed J. B. Patterson as saviour of
society a few weeks before the awakened people
of Victoria, with its hob-nailed boot in the shape
of Turner, kicked him and his policy into well-
deserved oblivion. Shire councillors, elected on a
limited franchise to make roads and generally
making them badly, are the chief feathers in the
Kyabrarnapootra. A list of the metropolitan
members of the Reform Citizens League was
rather foolishly printed by the Argus, and it con-
tained a greater proportion of rabid Tories, bowel-
less sweaters, blatant opponents of every demo-
cratic movement, and general enemies of the
human race, than even the average Birthday-
levee list.


Endorsed by Musicians.
I-XU
6,-<ZOJ<
w
t:
CL-<ZQ-I<
H X ill
--EXACTLY how many homes in this country possess a piano we are unable to say—certainly
many hundreds of thousands. We may assert, however, without fear of contradiction,
that only one piano of every three is opened oftener than half a dozen times in the course
of a year. There must be some reason for this, and it is no-t difficult to seek. Nowadays one
cannot afford the time necessary to learn the technical, or linger work- part of piano playing.
Long years of constant practice and drudgery must be undergone before one acquires but
moderate proficiency. Even then one's repertory is confined to very few pieces, and every
addition to it means more practice and hard work. .
THE PIANOLA is an instrument which enables one to skip those years spent in over-
coming the physical or finger playing work, while it allows one to have full mental control over
one’s playing ; that is, to infuse just as much individuality as one possesses into one’s efforts, and
thereby create true music. The Pianola is not automatic, and that is the secret of its success,
and why the world’s greatest musicians appreciate it.
FAULTLESS TECHNIQUE.
1. J. PADEREWSKI writes: “ It executes the masterpieces of pianoforte, literature with a
dexterity, cleaiwss and velocity which no player, however great, can approach.”
HAURICE riOSZKOWsKI writes: “ Anyone hidden in a room near by who hears the
Pianola for the first time will surely think it is a great virtuoso playing; but after a time he will
perceive his error, because your instrument never plays false notes.”
A FACTOR IN MUSICAL EDUCATION.
V. DE PACHHANN writes : “ I wish to add my testimony as to its excellence, both for
professional use in reading elaborate piano compositions and for private use in educating the
musical tastes of people who have pianos and are unable to use them for want of a thorough
musical education. ... ,
JEAN DE RESZKE writes : “It will certainly have the results of popularising good music,
of giving us more educated listeners, and also probably fewer indifferent performers.’’
LENDS ITSELF TO TRUE ARTISTIC EXPRESSION.
EfllL PAUR writes : “ Nothing of the kind I have heard before can approach it. In the
hands of a competent player all the shading, crescendo, as well as modification of temfa are
remarkably accurate.”
LUIGI MANCINELLI writes : “It is a wonderful instrument. Nothing I have ever heard
before could be called artistic in the true sense of that much abused word. It will have a great
influence on the future of piano playing.
The above extracts are sufficient to indicate the nature of the reception which the Pianola
has met with among leaders of the musical world. Those who possess Pianolas, or have heard
them in use express similar opinions. Have you heard the Pianola? If not, and you will favour
us with a call, we shall be delighted to demonstrate the instrument to you. We do not plague
you to buy. Should you, however, not be able to visit us, please write for fully illustrated and
descriptive catalogue, which will be sent post free on application.
It may be had on Instalment System.
The JEolian Co. of New York.
HENRY M. BIRGE & CO,
SYDNEY: 323 George St.
MELBOURNE: 185 & 187 Collins St.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
Hydatids on the Lungs
DRIVEN OUT OP THE SYSTEM AND CURED
..BY..
VITADATIO
Frank-street, off Munro-street,
Coburg, 27th March, 1901.
To Mr. S. A. PALMER, . T
Dear Sir,—For the benefit of suffering humanity 1
make this statement. Five years ago I was very ill and
was reduced to a shadow, the doctor who was treating
me said I was suffering from Consumption and he could
not cure me. In the beginning of the year 1898 Mr.
Thompson, who was for many years overseer m the
Pointing Department at Pentridge, who had to give up
that position on account of suffering from Consumption
and who had derived great benefit from VITATA.DIO,
advised me to call at your Institute, 47 Bourke-street and
consult you. I did so and you advised me to give
VITADATIO a fair trial, as it was a sure cure for me, I
commenced with the medicine and in a short time my
disease began to pass away from my system. I persevered
with VITADATIO for some time, gradually getting
stronger, and eventually I became quite well and gained
(14) one and a half stone in weight. It is now three years
since I left off taking VITADATIO and it is a proof that
the disease has completely left the system, as I have not
had any return of my old trouble. I shall be pleased to
give any further information about my case to anyone
calling at my address.—l remain, yours faithfully,
ELIZABETH J. WILLIAMS.
For further particulars,
s. A . PALMER ,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials
GIVEN AWAY
TO ADVERTISE
OUR
Write To-day.
OSTRICH TIPS
THIS NEW
Fashionable Mount.
TWO TIPS WITH
OSPREYS.
In Black, White, Cream, or
Black tipped with White.
3/-
THE BUNCH.
POST FREE.
Send Postal Notes with exchange.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Bourke & Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
Mention The Bulletin.
Neuralgia is responsible . . .
for a great number of the careworn
faces so frequently met with both
in the city and country. All
neuralgic pains and headaches can
be speedily removed by taking
Newman’s SPECIAL neuralgia POWDER, 2/-
By post, 2/2.
NEWMAN, CHEMIST, 82 King-street, Sydney.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
Bafest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
The Melbourne dailies never fell in so
badly as in their attempt to whoop-up the alleged
Reform movement. The accounts of “great”
public demonstrations in the country are un-
paralleled for their impudence. One “great”
meeting at Kyneton was attended by just 17
people. Even the Kyabram storekeeper who
started the agitation, when he wanted to demon-
strate some more, and got a special train put on
to convey the people to that one-horse place from
far and near, found it necessary to fill up a truck
or two with cattle in order to comply with the
requirement that there should at least be some
pretence of a reason for putting on the train.
And the Age and Argus gravely chronicled next
day that the “ special ” had conveyed innumerable
persons to the hallowed shrine of Ben Goddard,
and the wishy-washy proceedings which really
happened under the auspices of that renowned
patriot were blazoned forth untruthfully as a
howling and prodigious success.
ĥ
ħ
h
J TF* KIN G K
ilade of the Beat Nature Curly Haiti
from 39. ’€ch. /is; <>dr. 7s*
Ba, to 10s. 6ct >each;
W. H. WIjGZELt,
ItO'WILLIAM-STftEET.
SYDNEY
[TAILS- 'M
ft 20 inchcsifcmp, fls. 6<L : 20 inches, extra thick, ?8. 6d|JDj
f 22 inches*. 10s. 6cL i .22 indies, extra thick. 125.-6d.ul
, 24 inches, 15a. 6d.f 24 inches, extra thick. 18s. 6d.Aj
26 inches* 20a i 26 incln-a. extra thick* 255. H#
28 inches, 20s. ; SO iuchr*. 35*
30 inches, extra thick. 40*.
#
ĥ
All Goo os Duty Free To Ael The States.
Missing Friends.
STAHN HEIRS SOUGHT.— KARL EMIL STAHNisdead,
aged 85 years. He was a native of Gratz, Prussian
Posen. His half-sister, Paulina Steinbach, married Henry
Franke, and they went to Australia about 1848, and
settled in some Australian seaport. Their children were
Lydia, Paul, and Karl Franke. Such children, or their
descendants, should write Darwin C. DeGolia, Esq.,
care Harry Monson, Esq., 27 Mercantile Square, Bangor,
Maine, United States of America, at once, and authorise
him to represent them in the matter of Karl Emil Stahn’s
estate.
USTON Wanted.
Relatives of ROBERT HUSTON,
born County Cavan, Ireland, 75 years ago, should
write immediately to James Broad, Placerville, El Dorado
County, California, for particulars as to inheriting
property.
ROBERT MARTIN, late of Union Hotel
Specimen Hill, Bendigo. Your Mother is
dead, and a sum of money awaits you. Please
address —
Quick, Hyett, and Rymkr,
Solicitors, Bendigo;
or, J. F. Hogan, High-street, Bendigo.
FOR ACETYLENE GAS
m
“WE ARE
THE PEOPLE.”
Over 300 of our Reliable
Acetylene Gas Genera-
tors in daily use, and all
giving satisfaction.
We also supply Table,
Portable, Street, and
other Lamps for Acety-
lene Gas and all accesso-
ries.
We carry large stocks of
Carbide of Calcium.
Send for our No. 56
Acetylene Gas Catalogue
Martin’s Advance Acetylene Table Lamp. Price £1 7s. 6d.
James MARTIN & CO.
161 Clarence Street,
Nr. King-st., Sydney.
NOW READY.
“BUSHMAN .»<■
BUCCANEER”
Illustrated
HARRY MORANT:
(OF THE
Bpshveldt
Carbineers)
HIS ’VCNTURCS
RNP V6RSCS
By FRANK RENAR.
The History, Verses and Correspondence of
“The Breaker.”
price on¥shilling
postage ONE PENNY. All Booksellers.
Wholesale: Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney.
Retail: “Bulletin” Newspaper Co. Ltd., Sydney.
AGGREGATE BALANCE
SHEET OF -
THE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
MARCH 31, 1902.
LIABILITIES.
Notes in Circulation
Deposits and accrued
£ s. D.
976,820 0 0
Interest
..21,464,248 7 0
22,441,068 7 0
Bills Payable and other Liabilities (which
includes Reserves held for Doubtful
Debts and Amount at Credit of Officers’
Fidelity Guarantee andProvidentFund) 2,797,644 11 3
Paid-up Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,270,000 0 0
Profit and Los 3 «. .. 134,140 610
3,404,140 6 10
£28,642,853 6 1
Contingent Liabilities —
Outstanding Credits and endorse-
ments, as per Contra .. .. .. 487,712 0 3
£29,130,565 5 4
ASSETS. £ S. D. £ S. D.
Coin, Bullion and Cash
Balances .. .. 5,226,097 11 2
Money at short call in
London .. .. .. 330,000 0 0
British and Colonial
Government Securities 1,698,696 10 9
Municipal and other
Securities .. .. 92,655 1 3
Queensland Government
Notes 159,797 0 0
Notes of other Banks .. 14,351 0 0
Due by other Banks .. 137,468 10 10
7,659,065 14 0
Bills Receivable, Bills Discounted, and
Remittances in transit 3,988,956 19 6
Loans and Advances to Customers ..16,339,830 11 7
Bank Premises .. 655,000 0 0
£28,642,853 6 1
Liabilities of Customers and others on
Letters of Credit and Drafts, as per
Contra .. .. .. •• •• 487,712 0 3
£29,130,565 5 4
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS, MARCH 31, 1902.
Cr.
£ S. D.
1902.
Mar. 31. To Rebate (at current rates) on
Bills Discounted not due at
this date .. .. .. 7,090 9 0
„ Dividend at the rate of 10
per cent, per annum.. .. 100,000 0 0
„ Augmentation of the Reserve
Fund 15,000 0 0
„ Balance carried to “ Profit
and Loss,” New Account .. 12,049 17 10
£134,140 6 10
£ S. D.
11,543 6 8
1901.
Sept. 30. By Amount from last Account..
1902.
Mar. 31. „ Balance of Half-year’s Profits
after providing for Bad and
Doubtful Debts, reducing the
Valuation of Bank Premises,
and including recoveries from
Debts previously written off
as Bad 122,597 0 2
£134,140 6 10
Dr.
RESERVE FUND, MARCH 31, 1902.
Cr.
1902.
Mar. 31.
£ S. D.
To Balance 1,285,000 0 0
(of which £600,000 is in-
vested in British Govern-
ment Securities, and the
balance is employed in the
business of the Bank)
£1,285,000 0 0
1901.
Sep. 30.
1902.
Mar. 31.
1902.
Mar. 31.
£ S. D.
By Balance .. .. .. 1,270,000 0 0
„ Amount from Profit and Loss 15,000 0 0
£1,285,000 0 0
By Balance ■■ ..£1,285,000 0 0
J. Russell French, General Manager.
THE
FROM US TO YOU
BOOTS
THAT
ARE
BOOTS
t m
mm
BSi...
-
j|jR’0 v ?’
Fwf-'-v', m-i
m
KMMi
.
■
,K
am u
wku ■■■. . ' « j
3fev-. - ,
£'v ■
■
mam
■
rnm±
i
CALLACHAN
SOOT
By
POST
PREPAID
Gentlemen’s Fine
Calf Lace Boots,
Whole Goloshed,
Calf Kid Legs, Made-
to-order Appearance.
Price - 22/6.
You ought to wear CALLAGHAN BOOTS, because they are the most comfortable,
handsomest, long-wearing, and satisfactory Boots made at any price.
You can’t get them unless you buy from us. They are not Bargain-counter Boots. They
are not “ seconds.” They are never behind the times or stale.
In the Commonwealth upon receipt of 23/6 per pair; or in
Tan Leather for 24/6.
State Size of Boot, also if Pointed, Medium, or Broad Toes are
desired.
{Delivered Post Free
and Duty Free to
any Address
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.


Banking, Public Companies, See.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—-
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
&
1?
&
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
3xr.s."w.
(flont deplete |J|. (Jo., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74. CASTLEKEACrH ST., 74
* SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS—<
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Uutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors;
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman ; lion. C. J. Robbrts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Mim.hr.
Accumulated Funds, £2,491,989.
Policies issued 85,372 —assurin'' £26,085,346.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,576,850.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses —equitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
The Bank of |)orth Queensland
LI Ai IT'l'l I*.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Mutineer - Local Director JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up £lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250 900 ... £350.000
Tb« Trustees, €*€c£itors,
AND
Ags*KV Cofi}g?ai)V Linjitcd,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED ... £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP 090,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) £BB5B 7 3
Amount at Credit of Estates. Trusts,
and Clients, 30th June, 1901 16,388,976 5 3
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq. ;
O. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager
No. 412 Ooliins-street, Melbourne.
Royal Bank of Queensland
LIMITED.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £423,000
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 209,581
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 54,000
£686,581
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alforu
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABOHURCH LANE.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital
. £2,500,000
Ocean
A ccident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of Lo ndon.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.G. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Hon. John See, Lt.-001. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M‘Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australia,
131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £15,000, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties,
and £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
Queensland Smelting (Jumpy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
-D Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when
every other remedy had failed. Price 4(6 and 111.
Thousands of Testimonials.
OF ALL CHEMISTS, STORES, ETC.
WHOLESALE AGENTS'
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. NICHOLL, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
25 HIGH STREET, BELFAST, IRELAND.
SLATER’S DETECTIVES.” Acknowledged by
both the Press and the Public to be the finest
organisation of Male and Female Detective talent in the
World for private inquiries. Representatives in every
town on earth. Consultations Free. HENRY SLATER,
Manager, No. 1 BASINGHALL STREET, LONDON,
ENGLAND. Cables, “ Distance,” London.
SUpplng.
HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West& South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
| Peregrine, Saturday, May 31, 2 p.
1-Gabo, Tuesday, June 3, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, June 7, 2 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
-Gabo, Tuesday, June 10, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
-Gabo, Tuesday, June 10, 6 p.m.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Tyrian, Saturday, May 31, 3 p.m.
Burwah, Tuesday, June 3, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, June 7, 3 p.m.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Tyrian, Saturday, May 31, 3 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, June 7, 3 p.m.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Lass o’ Govvrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked throusrh.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with ail other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London .
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
Cape and Natal .. £3l 109 .. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £l2O.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
Huddart, Parker § go’s [ine
MKLHOIJKNU,
LAUNCESTON,
IK) HART,
WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
u».:Kr:c>
&
=9.
LINE
San Francisco,
California.
SPLENDID NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS,
SIERRA
SONOMA
VENTURA
Over 6000 Tons each.
8000 H.P.
Length, 425 feet,
Passengers booked through to American, Canadian and
European centres at current rates.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.
BURNS, PHILP & 00., LTD.,
Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts. SYDNEY.
—THE—
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
I\S S6raocc Society.
(ESTABLISHED 1879.)
THE MOST LIBERAL AND PROGRESSIVE
LIFE OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA.
HEAD OFFICE:
Intersection Hunter, Bligh and Castlereagh
. .. Streets, Sydney.
VICTORIAN BRANCH:
Baring Chambers, Market Street, Melbourne.
Wm. Bennett, Manager.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH:
36 and 38 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
JAS. G-LISSAN, Resident Secretary.
GEO. CROWLEY, General Manager.
DAVID BR AH AM aGO.
TAILORS,
73 & 75 King St., SYDNEY.
SPECIALITIES:
Dress Suits,
Dining Coats ,
Opera Overcoats,
Frock Suits,
Chesterfields,
Ladies 9 Costumes.
SOLE ACENTS IN N S W. FOR
£RTEX CELLULAR DRESS SHIRTS
AND UNDERWEAR.
h
ACKNOWLEDGED by both the Press and
the Public to be the Finest Organisation
of Male and Female Detective Talent in the
World for Private Inquiries. Representatives in
every town on earth. Consultations free.
HENRY SLATER, Manager,
1 Basinghall-street, London, England.
Cables, “ Distance, ” London.
RUPTURE «»
'i
without
operation or pain,
no detention from Work, or depend-
ence upon Trusses. The only
humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
Treatise No. io. Address:
SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.B.C S.. ENG..
Cor Russell a Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
Throw away
your Truss.
TIME TA.BLE.
THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
ĥ
IV. D. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OP
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-screw steamer.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
Interstate First Class Return Tickets are now available
for Return by the Steamers of the P. and 0., Orient
Pacific, or >I.M. Co.’s.
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW
GUINEA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. STETTIN, llth JUNE,
And Regularly Thereafter.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities —Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation,' Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents.
WEJSER.LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and D Bridge-
street, Sydney.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ ALL-RED ” ROUTE.
Moana, June 16.
Miowera, July 14.
Aorangi, August 11.
GRAND EXCURSION TO ROCKY MOUNTAINS
OP AMERICA.
£6O FOR 63 DAYS,
Including; Steamer, Railway, and Hotel
Expenses.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
mm
w
3S
Wj
CHOICE TIPS,
Black, White or Cream.
Graceful and
becoming for the
Young or Old.
10/-
‘Hating
»qx
There is a charm about a hat
with Ostrich Tips no other
Trimming can impart.
Post Free, to any Address.
Write Now. Send Postal Notes,
MILLER'S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner of Bonrke and Swauston Streets,
MELBOURNE.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
' 7
S.S. Allinga,
Friday, June 6.
S.S. Wollowra,
(from Melbourne),
Tuesday, June 10.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Warrego,
Friday, May 30.
Rest and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A.U.S.N. Co. and Howard Smith Co.,
Ld. For Adelaide and W.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
A. U. S. IN. Ooy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THIS POPULAR PASS UNO 15 It LINK.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LI NE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bril
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Passenger A ccoiniuod.ation., Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W- H. Smith aiid Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. ordy.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., Agents, In Bridge-
stroet, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
D AND Q COMPANY’S
ROYAL MAIL STEAMSRS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B to £.ll
s, - Ditto Ditto Return, £66 to £ll5
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific,
Messageries Maritimes and N.D.L. Steamers having room.
EDWARD TRELAWNY,
63 Pitt-street. Superintendent in Australia.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and POUT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and 0.,
Orient and N.D.L. steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
“E. RND R.” LINE.
. . TO . .
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Steamer.
AUSTRALIAN ..
GUTHRIE
EASTERN
AIRLIE
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with EVERY CON-
VENIENCE FOR TROPICAL TRAVELLING.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates in con-
junction with the Canadian-Paeific and other Steamship
Companies.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
. . SMOKE
■ ■
THE
<s°
ħ
GBD
A
h
INSIST
on having this Brand
and no other.
Australian Depot:
231 CLAR€NC€ STR€€T,
SYOKTBY.


Words to the Wide World
THERE ARE MANY REASONS why we pose before thepublioo! Australasia as the Leading'
Pathologists and Medical Experts of the Day. One of them is because we do more
practical good and create more permanent physical benefit than any other association of
medical men in Australasia. We are not bound down by any specified rule, our views and our
principles are as wide as the Continent over which we practice. Our systems, methods,
practices are new; there is no room for obsoletism in an Institution whose patients are
as the sands upon the sea-shore.
EMINENT PHYSIOLOGISTS from the World’s scientific laboratories admit Electricity Is the
source of Life. It is the creative and sustaining element in all animated things. Our new
methods prove that Electricity can be applied judiciously! but to be effectual the system
must be prepared by a course of special renovative medicines. Then a great and remarkable change
occurs. The worn-out, physically enfeebled system becomes strong in strength, palsied
reproductive systems become obedient to the powers of volition and sensation, functional
disorders are remedied, the nerves strengthened, the circulation equalised, and Health
is assured.
Remarkable Results from
Remarkable Persons.
tllE CAN OFFER PROOFS that will convince everyone
w*f that our new systems of ELECTROPATHY, or the judicious
use of Electricity and Medicine, will cure certain classes of
disease which the medical faculty has signally failed to relieve.
Facts are stubborn thing's. Men like Mr. Joseph Megson,
Champion Cyclist of N.S. Wales; Mr. J. Johns, Champion
Light-weight Pugilist of Australia ; Mr. Rd. Cavil), Champion
Swimmer of Australia, and holder of many World’s Records,
together with many other well-known professionals in the spheres
of Sport, Art, and Music, would not say the ELECTRO-
MEDICAL TREATMENT did them incalculable good if it did not.
But we have given them “ nerve power and strength, of which
they have despaired.” The copies of their original Testi-
monials will be posted to any person for perusal. The
Specialists of the FREEMAN and WALLACE Institute assures
anyone of long suffering that they will ensure a new physical
change in them by a few weeks adoption of their new treatment.
Specialities.
Diseases which will yield readily to the Electro-Medical treat-
ment are Indigestion, Dyspepsia, Sciatica, Nervous Heart
Troubles, Epileptic Affections, Lumbago and Rheumatism.
If you suffer from any of these try an “ Invigorator ” with our
medicines. You will he cured.
Don’t Miss this Medical Work.
Everyone in New South Wales who have sent One Shilling' in
Stamps to the Specialists for their new work, “Clinical Experi-
ences,” are surprised at its usefulness. It is worth a pound a
page to persons living in the far country parts. It contains 550
pages of medical literature, 150 full and half-page medical illustra-
tions, and contains 31 chapters on various diseases, epidemics,
their growths and treatment. Love and Marriage, Fevers,
Plague, Sunstroke, Burns and Scalds, Insomnia, Piles, Dropsy,
Asthma, Diabetes, Snakebite and Cure, Fractures, Broken Limbs,
Wounds, etc., etc., are treated exhaustively. One Shilling in
etamps posts it free to any address. Its literature is clear, concise
and useful, its illustrations graphic and entertaining.
ext>
\CE
Mm
Mi
m
m
$
o
£
*
UQBTUC&t*
Uaatroay*
m
m
QUEENSLAND
f
WEST
AUSTRALIA
SOUTH
AUSTRALIA
NEW
SOUT
WALES
VICTORIA
/A fD/AN
Ocean. 1
T R A
Champion Testimonials from
Three Champions.
We want all the people of the Commonwealth to read these
grand testimonials from men magnificent of record in Australian
Sporting Spheres.
Mr. <J. MECSON, Champion Cyclist of N.S. Wales, says :—“ I
suffered keenly from nervousness. I was on the point of a con-
stitutional break-up more than once. Your treatment restored
me to a strength of which I had despaired. The merit of
your Electric * Invigorator ’ is beyond question.
“ (Signed) J. Mkgson, March, 1902."
Mr. C. JOHNS, Champion Light-weight Pugilist of Australia
affirms “ I have worn one of your ‘ Invigorators ’ during train-
ing for contests in Sydney, and have found it most beneficial to
my nerve and physical systems. Your Electro-Medical treatment
has done me undoubted good, both in training and actual
contests. (Signed) G. Johns, April, 1902.”
And Mr. W. CAHACAN, ex-Champion Cyclist N.S.W. League
of Wheelmen, declares :—“I have worn your Electric “ Invigor-
ator” during training for my principle bicycle matches, and
always found relief through its application. It has a most
strengthening effect upon the nervous and muscular systems. I
attribute much of my success to its immediate use.
“ (Signed) W. Gahagan, March, 1902.”
(Don’t these TESTIMONIALS ease your hearts ? What we
have done for them we can do for you.)
Our Postal Systems.
The world to-day with its net-work of electric cables and tele-
graphs has been described “as a mere bundle of nerves.”
Messages can be sent to the ends of the earth in a few minutes.
We have a perfect postal system. Any patient will receive a
reply to his or her letters in a few hours. All letters are treated
with privacy, and medicines are forwarded free from observation
to any address. For opinions upon any case the Specialists do
not charge. The rich and poor are treated alike. A faithful
diagnosis of any complaint will be given, but the symptoms and
direction of it must be correctly described. The Specialists’ ser-
vices are given in the interests of suffering humanity, their fees
are moderate, and their methods effective.
How We Restore to Health and Happiness.
After reading the above testimonials you will reflect upon your own condition. In order to be com-
pletely cured of a disease, proper treatment must be adopted. Our special medicines taken correctly, whilst
one of our marvellous Electric “ Invigorators ” are worn, will cure the most obstinate oa3e of Physical
Weakness In a few weeks. Enfeebled constitutions are one of our Specialities. Persons about to marry, or
about to take long journeys, should consult us. The Prices of our wonderful health-creating “ Invigorators ”
areCopper-Plated, £1; Silver-Plated, £1 10s,; Solid Silver, £3; Solid Cold (stamped), £lO.
You should not pay any more for this wonderful instrument, which assists Nature in regaining’ her strength.
It will cure you when all your doctors fail. As a renovative agent in cases of Vital Weakness,
Insomnia, Palpitation, Disordered Functions, Sciatica, Nerve and Brain Complaints, it has no equal. Our
20s. Belt is better value than Belts sold at £lO elsewhere.
NINE DIPLOMAS AND CERTIFICATES OF QUALIFICATION AND REGISTRATION BY THE MEDICAL BOARDS OF N.S. WALES, VICTORIA, SOUTH AUSTRALIA. ENGLAND AND AMERICA, OPEN FOR INSPECTION,
BY THE PHYSIOIAN-IN-CHIEF, DR. WALLACE, LATE HOMCEPATHIC HOSPITAL, MELBOURNE, AND BRITISH IMPERIAL ARMY MEDICAL STAFF.
FREEMAN & WALLACE
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director Electro-Medical Dept.
Dr. RICHARD WALLACE, Physician-in-Chief.
Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute,
Elizabeth & Bathurst Sts., Sydney.
AN OPEN INVITATION.
JUST because we have a Splendidly Stocked and Handsome Shop, and because we have sense enough to
know that well-made and well-fitted Windows and Show Cases serve to keep the Stock in A 1 condition,
is no reason why you should think that our prices must be high. Don’t for a moment think that our
shop is too grand for you or that you can get more for your money in a smaller place. If you do think so you
make a big mistake, and the sooner you give us the opportunity to prove that this is so the better will it be for
you. Does it not stand to reason that we, with our six popular Australasian stores (two more will be opened
in a couple of months, one in Brisbane and the other in Dunedin, N.Z.) can buy in larger quantities and sell at
lower prices than single shops ? Is not the possession of these six stores proof that our prices please the public ?
Next time you want anything in our line, come in and see how well and how cheaply we can supply your
wants. It will cost you nothing to look round and get all the information you want, and even if you don’t buy
we won’t be offended. Let the purse be fat or lean, the same careful and courteous attention is given to all.
If you are out of town your name and address on a post card will bring our 1902 Catalogue, and you will see
that we can serve you just as carefully by post as if you were standing before the counter.
Watches
to depend on.
rpHAT is the only kind we stock, because we know
that a Watch that does not keep time is much
worse than no Watch at all. We quote a few prices
and our Watch Catalogue tells of the others. You
Keeper Rings
- i
In a wide variety of hand-
some, hand-chased designs.
We make them in 18ct. gold,
and at the prices quoted
you will find we give excel-
lent value—2ss, 30s, 355.
Engagement Rings.
h
A Five-Stone Diamond Half-
Hoop Ring has always been
the favorite style, and we
have a splendid stock to
select from. We illustrate
our Five Guinea Ring—five
Sparkling Diamonds set in 18ct. Gold. Better
ones at £6 10s, £Blos, £lO 10s, and higher if you
want them.
Wedding Rings.
ĥ
Of 18ct. Gold, in different
thicknesses and widths ; all
sizes. We are sure you can’t
get better value anywhere,
and here you can rely on
our rings being full quality
18ct. Gold.
Prices—2ls, 255, 30s, 355,
40s, 50s, 60s.
Spoons
and Forks.
A 1 QUALITY.
JDLATED on pure Nickel Silver
and warranted to give com-
plete satisfaction. Old English or
Fiddle Patterns.
Table Spoons .. 355. per doz.
Table Forks .. 355. ~
Dessert Forks 255. ~
Dessert Spoons 255. „
Tea Spoons .. 15s. „
See our Spoon and Fork List for
Lower Grades.
OE
FID
Tie Clips
The handiest thing’s imaginable. Keep the tie in
position. Suitable alike for ladies and gentlemen.
m
Prices—Silver, Is 6d a pair ; Oct. Gold, 6s 6d • Heavy
12s 6d ; Pearl or Turquoise Set, 14s 6d ; Sapphire’ or Rubv
Set, 16s 6d. J
Gold Muff Chains,
There is a dressy gracefulness about these long- Gold Chains
that ensures their being fashionable for some time to come
We stock a big range in 9ct. Gold from 63s and in 15ct’
Gold from £5 ss. The one we illustrate is extra heave knd
costs, in 9ct. £4 15s, in 15ct. £8 10s. '
ħ
4/2 GEORGE j,7 SYDnfT
ALL GOODS SENT FREE AND SAFE BY POST ON RECEIPT OF REMIT-
TANCE tsa- Write for our ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
Cruets
A N immense stock of Cruets, Breakfast, Lunch or Dinner sizes, to choose from. Silver-
plated Frames and Spoons. Plain, Fancy or best Out Glass Bottles. The prices for
Breakfast Cruets run Bs. 6d., 10s. 6d., 12s. 6d., 16s. 6d., 18s. 6d. ; Lunch size, 16s. 6d.,
18s. 6d., 215., 255., and Dinner Cruets 16s. 6d., 215., 275. 6d., all the way up to £5. The
last price buys a lovely Six Bottle Dinner Cruet, finest Full Cut Bottles and very best
Silver-plated Frame.
A CRUET FOR A LIFETIME.
Price 12a. 6d.
Gent’s Solid Gold Cuff Links
Of the very best English manufacture, Hall-marked, with strong chain connections, thus ensuring long wear.
Dozens of good Designs to pick from.
No. F 126.
9ct. Gold, 16s 6d.
No. 201 A.
9ct. Gold, £1 Is.
No. 193 A.
9ct. Gold, 13s 6d.
No. 200.
9ct. Gold, £1 ss.
Pearl Crescent
Brooches.
A really pretty, well-made 15ct.
Gold Crescent Brooch, set with
Real Pearls, A marvel of value.
£1 15s each. Hundreds of nice
Designs in Gold Brooches to pick
from at prices starting as low as ss,
and 9ct. gold, too, at that price.
Maori
Lucky
Beans
Made of the real
New Zealand
Greenstone, so
highly prized by
the Maoris. We
have them in two
sizes, mounted with 9ct. Gold.
They are suitable for Gentlemen’s
Pendants, or to hang on a Lady’s
Bangle or Muff-Chain. Two sizes,
7s 6d and 9s 6d.
Curb Bangles.
The Ever - Fashionable Bangle.
Fitted with Padlock and Safety
Chain. Each in a Morocco Case.
9ct. Gold, three sizes—
£2, £2 15s, £3 10s
15ct. Gold, three sizes—
£3 15s, £5, £6 6s
Bamboo
Bangles
Still retain a
wide popular-
ity on account
of their novel
yet artistic
appearance. All our Bamboo Bangles are
well made and finished, and of good
weight.
h
ĥ
Oct. Gold as Sketch.. £1 7
9ct. Gold, larger .. £1 17
9ct. Gold, larger still £2 5
0 15ct. Gold £2 10
6 15ct. Gold £3 10
0 15ct. Gold £4 0
\\J E have a fine selection of these Useful and Popular
'' Articles in stock. They make nice Wedding Gifts,
especially when cased in half-dozens, as these are. The
prices run—
s. d.
Pearl Handles .. .. .. .. 27 6
Ivory Handles 25 0
Solid Silver Handles 37 6
Solid Silver 40 0
Carved Pearl 40 0
Cake Forks:


JOHN JAMESON
“THREE-STAR” WHISKEY.
Agents : J. BAR,RE JOHNSTON & CO., lioftus Street, Sydney.
ħ
h
REUTER’S
LITTLE
RILLS
FOR THE LIVER.
ĥ
A Witness.
She is Positive.
When witnesses are examined, the court
insists that they shall tell only what they know,
not what they think or believe. Time and again
ħ
the wandering wit-
ness is brought back
to the point by the
stern voice of the
Judge. “Madam,
we are not interested
in what you think;
we want jto hear
what you actually
know.” There is no
such trouble experi-
enced with the
worthy witnesses of
the cures wrought by
Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills ; they
know what they are
talking about, and
what cured them.
One of these now
speaks. The evi-
dence given by Mrs.
E. Grant, who resides at 338 Young-street,
Annandale. Her experience is best related in her
own words, which are as follow —“ I have been a
sufferer from acute indigestion. For five or six
years I had a pain in the chest, and thought I had
lung trouble, and at times I raised blood. My
husband, a railway employee, and a man at the
works, recommended Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills. I had tried many other remedies, and
several doctors, but was unable to get relief. I
bought a bottle of Dr. Morse’s Pills, and after
taking half a bottle felt much better. I continued
taking them, and am entirely cured. I can safely
recommend them to all people suffering as I was.
I have lived here for fourteen years and
am well known, and am healthy and
strong.” Dr. Morsb’s Indian Root Pills
are a perfect blood purifier, and positive
cure for biliousness, indigestion, constipation,
headaches, sallow complexion, liver and kidney
troubles, piles, pimples, boils and blotches, and
for female ailments. Sold by chemists and
storekeepers, Is. l|d per bottle, or six bottles
6s. 6d. Packed in amber bottles, and the full
name blow thereon.*
TH6
PLAIN
TRUTN
h
THE RED BIRD BICYCLE
WILL STJIT YOU BEST.
It is Strong, Easy Running, and Every Part is of Tested Quality.
The Buying Terms are Easy. Goold Bicycle Co., 64 King St., Sydney
Hardy’s
Absolutely Pure;
Tin tara Wines
Fully Matured; 700 Medals, etc.
Adelaide:
CURRIE STREET
A
Melbourne:
COLLINS STREEI
A
Sydney:
GROSVENOR STREET
W. H. Traill
THE LATE W. H. TRAILL , FORMERLY
EDITOR OF “ THE BULLETIN."
William Henry Traill, journalist, who died, at
Brisbane, on 22nd inst., was born at Westeve,
Orkney, in 1844. He came of a race of freeholders,
bolding their own at Westeve through the quiet
and the troubled centuries. Orkney was too
narrow for him at 17, and he came to Australia,
jaokarooing first in Queensland; then a return to
the Old World, to find Orkney narrower still.
Australia again; a turn at station-managing,
marriage, and a tentative settle-down in the
Mines Dept, of Victoria, under that merciless
autocrat Brough Smyth. Young Traill endured
two years there ; got back to Brisbane, found a
place in the Lands Dept., and did some good
work. Gresley Lukin was his colleague there, and
when Lukin was established as chief of the Courier
and Queenslander, Traill said good bye to the
oivil service, and entered on his life work as a
journalist. It was not altogether a bad life then,
for Lukin knew that big papers were only to be
made by able men, and gathered a ring about him
such as could hardly be found m any Australian
city to-day. There were Brunton Stephens and
Carl Feilberg, “ Redspinner ” (William Senior),
Dick Stewart, Dick Newton, Ernest Favenc, and
Traill—“Old Man Traill,” as he was first called
then. The Queenslander was a paper to read in
those days, and the Courier too good maybe
for the little northern capital. Traill showed what
live journalism might do when, as special com-
missioner for the Courier, he burst up the dum-
mying gang on the Darling Downs. Next change
came with a call to Sydney. John Fairfax and
Sons invited him to edit Sydney Mail, and he
accepted. That did not last long. Ho took over
Reuter’s agency in Sydney, but continued to
write for the three papers of the ancestral firm till
the big change came.
Traill had not lived in a mean or a narrow
school. The tough Orkney breeding had been
followed by large and varied experience in Aus-
tralia. In his civil service years he had seen the
seamy side and the multiplex humbug of official-
dom. As representative of the Courier and
Queenslander he had felt the potentialities of
robust and earnest journalism. Reuter’s work
had given him a good grip of the large facts of the
world’s life, and when in the hurly-burly of The
Bulletin’s affairs of that date an opening appeared
he stepped in and filled it. It was a fighting time,
and Traill carried on with an enterprise which
verged on recklessness. Amongst his best services
to The Bulletin, to journalism, and to Australia
were the engagement of Hopkins and Phil May as
artists. “ Hop ” came when the old threepenny
edition was enlarged to the present size. In view
of that development Traill went to America to
find a man. It will be admitted that he succeeded
in the quest. Phil May was secured in the same
way on a subsequent visit to England. It is
not difficult to trace the influence of Phil May to-
day in every illustrated periodical of the world.
With those two men, girding together at all sorts
of Australian humbug, and opening out new
sources of Australian humor, “Old Man” Traill
was seen, perhaps, at his very best.
As Editor of The Bulletin Traill began making
footprints in the paths of Democracy- The paper
gave him his opportunity and he gave it a plat-
form and a policy. Up to that time politics had
not been a marked feature of the paper, but from
his accession it impressed his intellectual
strenuousness and courage upon the disorganised
democracy of the day. Sectarian animosity, at
that time sedulously instigated for party purposes,
was the subject of his constant attack, vigorous
to the verge of ferocity, for it was clear to him
that the path of reform could not be trodden till
this obstacle was removed. The visit of the
Redmonds in the Irish Home Rule interest
enabled him to show that a Scotch Protestant
could consistently demand redress for the wrongs
of Irish Roman Catholics. He strove to elevate
the question at issue from a sectarian to a political'
plane. That he did not wholly succeed in doing
so is accounted for by the spirit of the times. His
effort was made at a time when, to refrain from
denouncing the cause the Redmonds advocated,
was to invite detestation deeper than that which
centred round “pro-Boers” twelve months ago.
There were some prominent politicians of that
day whose views, nationality and faith should
have compelled them to the Redmond platform,
but who preferred to let the Orkney Islander
fight the battle while they retained their pro-
minence and popularity by reason of their caution
and unbroken silence. They were counted wise
in their day, but their wisdom in saying nothing
and Traill’s courage in saying a good deal and
saying it at the top of his voice, were long
remembered by the party which always polls
heavily in the K to P booth.
The despatch of the Soudan contingent gave
Traill another eagerly-seized opportunity of in-
curring popular displeasure. The Bulletin stood
alone in opposing the hysteria of that occasion,
and Philip sober reversed his own decision in
due time. But Traill’s most enduring journal-
istic and political monument is not to
be built from mere occasions. These and
other like particular incidents and occasions
illustrated his courage and principles, but his
best political service to N.S.W. is to be found in
the series of articles in which he hammered at the
abuses of the time, and gave direction and added
force to the party of reform. Progress was then
deemed incompatible with political or journalistic
decency, and it is impossible now, with the altered
state of popular opinion, to appreciate the bitter-
ness and vehemence of opposition and denuncia-
tion that then met any voicing of Radical views.
But in spite of property votes these views pre-
vailed. Payment of members came in 1891, and
paved the _ path to Parliament for the Labor
Party; bricks and mortar ceased to have any
representation after 1893, and the facilities for
roll-stuffing were then abolished ; land and income
taxation followed, and Protection was achieved in
1901. Traill’s efforts for Federation gave him
a claim to rank with the earliest and strongest
of its advocates.
• As one of the promoters, and as editor of the
Star, Traill continued to assist the unpopu-
lar cause, and made a further effort in its behalf
by asking East Sydney to elect him to the Assem-
bly. Of course it enthusiastically refused ; but
later, after giving the Attorney-General a very
close run for South Sydney, he led the Protec-
tionists who won the constituency. But he had
none of the arts of a politician. He did not assist
those of his constituents who wanted billets, and
failed to take part in local agitations, and he was
much too candid—an unpardonable fault in elec-
tioneering. In the House his ability was acknow-
ledged, but he was a rebellious partisan, believed
in his own opinion, and showed that he meant to
be guided by it. He was always too strenuous to
be politic ; too firmly convinced of the import-
ance of the principle to be willing to qualify it to
placate others. The man whose mind does not
first of and all the time, consider persons can-
not hope to be a Premier, or even a leading
member of the House.
Pity perhaps that such a man as he was ever
entered politics, or meddled with commercial con-
cerns at all. The humbug, the tergiversation, ■
the chafing restraint, the humiliating associa-
tions of political life worried and wore, even as
business sacked and spoiled him. His later
return to journalism was not altogether a
success. Men of his mould find it hard to weave
unless the pattern be of their own designing and
the thread of their own spinning. Amongst the
directors of half-hearted daily papers he was the
devil amongst the tailors, and as the tailors were
on their own board the devil had to get. Late
work in Brisbane is not to be taken seriously.
The man was dying and knew it, and he wrought
not in fulfilment of his life’s purpose—only to satis-
fy the exigent demand. But Australia will not
remember him so, but rather as “Old Man”
Traill, of the old hard-working, fighting days, and
to all worthy to hold it, that memory is good.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Big thing of the day, Moorefield Handicap, 1£
mile, fell to Wootton’s Prodigal-Nursegirl gelding, Soldier,
who started among the outside lot, and won handily.
The Maine, boomed for weeks, hot at 6 to 4, ran a poor
second. Up-country top-notch performer, Winoline, ap-
peared to be backed well, but manner of her running—
with crack rider Barden up—if correct, was very ill-
judged. In face of Soldier’s capital track-work and con-
sidering the fact that he beat Horace fairly easily, before
latter recently lost his maiden certificate, in a good
“ field,” after years of “ going to do something,” punters
marvelled why he carried so little (if any) stable money.
Wootton is evidently not the bettor he was.
* * * ■
Stewards at Moorefield gave some signs of life
Saturday. Much-talked-about and waited-for Valente—
tipped for long as sure the first time of asking—was, to-
gether with her jock and trainer, “sent-up” for 12
months, through an “unsatisfactory ” display. Rider of
Oin, in the same race (Flying Handicap), was “ severely ”
cautioned, though how this is going to affect him isn’t
too clear ; and owners of Loch Lotta and Chippy Norton
were mulct in sums of £5 each for late scratching. There
were other cases that called for drastic treatment, but
probably the stewards thought they had done enough to
start with. Result: A mild panic among the ever-in-
creasing army of constant crooked goers.
• * * *
Kogarah (Sydney) trainer - owner, Hughie
Roarty, nicked Kogarah Stakes (6 fur.), Moorefield,
Saturday, with Rock Harbor—a colt by Gibraltar-Miss
Hawthorne, who finished admirably under punishment.
The “ good thing ” was confidently anticipated too, for
as little as 2 to 1 in a field of 14 “ novices ” found ready
acceptance. Rock Harbor is a finely proportioned, well-
grown three-year-old, bred by Mr. A. Houston, of
Singleton, who got the colt’s dam for six guineas, and
has since sold three of her progeny for 255 guineas.
» * * »
Clever jock M‘Curley died at Braidwood
(N.S.W.) recently from consumption, cetat 22. The dead
lad had a fall when up on Counterpoint in Rosehill
Hurdles from which he never properly recovered.
M‘Curley rode Tricolor when that nag won the Sydney
Cup easily, and started at 50 to 1 against.
• * » *
What must the Sydney “ shop ” harvest be ? Of
22 in the list for Tatt’s Flying Handicap at Randwick on
the 17th, only 7 faced the flag, and of 19 in a similar
event at Moorefield on the 24th, 13 were withdrawn—all
on the course at meeting. Small wonder that the town
Mo. can pay heavy fines and still smile.and live on the fat
of this droughty, plague-stricken ,_.ad. New Westralian
criminal law, in operation since Ist inst., which provides
that betting-shop-keepers shall be liable to 3 years’ im-
prisonment without the option, should break them up,
but, despite it, betting is as brisk and the police as in-
active as ever in Perth. Still the law is loaded, and
once it goes off there’ll be a slump in the Mo. business.
M.L. front-rank turfite, Mr. G. C. Stead, has
gathered in £12,235 in stakes this season—verging on
£4OOO in excess of Rupert Clarke’s premier Australian
haul last year. Mr. Stead’s grab includes £3765 con-
tributed through Cruciform as the proceeds of 10 wins.
* * * »
Despite official assurances to the contrary, one
of the team, writing to a friend in Sydney, declares
positively that five of the members of the present Aus-
tralian XI. are on half gate-receipts. Perhaps, however,
the organisers of the team have changed the agreements
since the matter has leaked out.
Jack Want, K.C.i “A tote-shop is a place where
you never get your money back ; a betting-shop is a place
where you may get it back if you are very lucky.”
« * * *
Old-time top-notch lepper Trickett, by Zingara,
was destroyed at Wagga t’other day aged 28. Crack
cross-country rider J. E. Brewer first made his name
through this nag.
* m * *
Brisbane Cup winner, Palmer, was foaled in
Victoria and bred by Mr. Jas. Wilson, junr., by Pilgrim’s
Progress from Zeph, by First King, from Yardley (imp.).
Ringmaster and Lonsdale were brothers to Zeph. As a
two-year-old Palmer won the Third Caulfield Futurity
Stakes for his breeder. Sydney nags, Robato and Luck-
now, started first and second favorites respectively ;
former ran second, and latter nowhere. Palmer humped
8.11 —the third heaviest burden carried to the front in
the same event. Bonnie Bee’s load (in ’B6) was 9.11.
Battalion (in ’97) had 10.3 up. Robato won last year, with
Brise de Nuits second, and Circe (who occupied a similar
position, Saturday) third. Palmer’s time (3.32 J) for the
two miles is the fastest accomplished since the journey
was increased Jmile —14 years ago.
> * * •
Narelle —winner of Q.T.C. St. Leger, recently
—was bred by Mr. J. R. Smith at Tucka Tucka (N.S.W.),
and got by the imported Tucka Tucka sire Gozo, from the
Tucka Tucka mare Sing Song by Bandmaster from
Canary, by Kelpie from Mary Blane, by Plover. Previous
form indicated Narelle’s success. In seven starts as a
two-year old he got away with Q.T.C. Hopeful Stakes and
Separation Plate. This season Toowoomba Shorts Handi-
cap, Q.T.C. Derby, Stanley Plate and Toowoomba Xmas
Handicap were appropriated by him, also he ran second
in Queensland Cup, and third in the Guineas. Future
engagements embrace Brisbane Cup, wherein Narelle (as
a gelding) has 9st.—l6lbs. in excess of w.f.a. allotment.
• • • •
Startling evidence re the punting infatuation of
the toilers in Great Britain has been laid before the
“ Betting Inquiry Board.” One reliable witness declared
that the miners and factory-hands in the Northern coun-
ties lose a considerable percentage of their earnings to
the pestilent “ metallician,” who waits for them on pay-
days. One fellow at South Shields was seen to take 236
bets in three hours from men, women and children.
These victims of the punting habit can’t be said to live
on hope. They only exist on disappointment, mocked at
by their stronger-minded co-workers. Meanwhile, the
middle-classes grow more and more antagonistic to horse-
racing.
m * m *
Cricketer Jack Worrall—smarting under exclu-
sion from the Australian Xl.—has written to London
Sportsman vigorously condemning the team. The only
member whom he eulogises is Hugh Trumble, who,
strange to say, hasn’t played in a match yet. Every
other member is either a “ has been,” or a “ never was,”
or else a “ never will be.” But, for all that, every mem-
ber whom he has abused has justified his inclusion ; Jones,
Howell, and Noble have bowled exceedingly well ; and all
have, at one time or another, “ come off ” with the bat.
Further, Worrall states that he “ cannot see how the pre-
sent Australian team can hope to hold their own against
England on any class of wicket, but on one damaged by
rain they must go down, for they have not a forcing
batsman on the side, and very few of the men have any
idea of batting when the ball is biting.” And, as an
answer to this, every match has been stopped by rain and
the wicket damaged, and the team hasn’t lost a match
yet, having played five —won three, drawn two. So much
for Mr. Jack Worrall’s opinion !
* * • *
Maclaren will almost certainly be captain in the
first test-match, the English, anxious to win, wishing to
have the advantage of his knowledge of the visiting team
and its weak points. Up to date, this Aus. XI. has
done better than any other, and the Englishmen are now
not so sure of the ultimate result of the tour as they were
when Darling’s men left these shores.
» • » *
Success of Jones and Noble in Leicestershire
match placed them top of Australian bowling averages—
Jones having 10 for 12T0, and Noble 27 for 1274. Noble’s
bag was far bigger than any other bowler’s ; Howell’s 20
ranked next. With the ’99 team Jones’ most notable feat
was 7 for 31 against Truro ; then followed 10 for 84
(Middlesex), and 7 for 88 in the second test-match. Three
years since, Jones and Noble got rid of Leicestershire for
28—Noble getting 1 for nil and 7 for 15, while Jones
credited himself with 3 for 5. Leicestershire and Aus-
tralia have contended nine times, and former only suc-
ceeded once (in ’88). Two matches were drawn.
* * * *
Australia beat Leicestershire by seven wickets.
Latter’s initial innings closed before lunch, and so
bad was the pitch through previous wet weather, that
first day saw 14 wickets bagged for an aggregate of 94
runs—less than seven a man. Australia responded with
126, and Leicestershire’s second effort produced 143 ;
then the visitors hit up 69 for three wickets. The all-
round hero was Australian Jones, who topped all scores
with 40, and secured eight wickets for 55. Noble captured
12 for 69 —eight of them in the second innings for 48—
which shaves Armstrong’s figures of eight for 47, opposed
to Notts. Yet the latter’s performance was much the
better, as the bats against him were superior and got no
aid from the wicket.
« * * *
Oxford v. Australia match, Thursday and Fri-
day last week, went to the ’Stralians by an innings and
54 runs. ’Varsity totals were 77 and 183. Australians
declared first innings closed with six down for 314.
Speedy scoring on second day secured this result, 227
being-tacked on in 2J hours. Trumper notched 121, the
fourth century of the tour and the second to his credit ;
other two were Darling’s and Hill’s. Oxford was this
season rated not over-strong, which explains its poor
showing. Up to now ’Stralians have contested six
matches, won four, while two were abandoned. In three
engagements Australia’s innings were prematurely closed.
Visitors’ aggregate of runs so far is 1858 for 59 wickets,
which averages 31'49, as against 1568 for 102 wickets and
an average of 15.37. Australians haven’t on any occasion
up to now had the full benefit of two innings.
* * * *
Apropos Australia-Marylebone C.C., commenced
Monday on M.O. Ground, and in which at time of
writing Australia seems to have a fairly good
position. In that sensational match of ’7B, which
opened and ended on one day, and Australia
won by 9 wickets, old-timers Spofforth and Boyle
wrought the havoc. In ’96, Marylebone side went near
getting even by outing all the Australians for 18. Pougher
and Hearne did the damage. Last tour the Australians
won both matches with a wide margin to the good, and
brought honors so close that if they succeed this time the
announcement will be “ easy”—five wins all. Personnel
of the ’Ome team, as cabled, is exceptionally
strong and much ahead of any so far tackled.
Storer has the reputation of being (with Lilley)
the best wicket-keep in England. “ Ranji.,” Fry,
Palairet, Warner, Mitchell, and W. G. Grace are all fore-
front bats, while ex-Australian Albatrott and Hearne are
bowlers of the first order, and Llewellyn and Braund rate
among the best all-rounders. Team for first test-match,
which opens at Birmingham this Thursday, could hardly
be stronger than M. 0.0., though room may be found for
Rhodes, Maclaren, and Hayward, while Lilley might fill
Storer’s place. Regarding Trott: he (in ’99) performed
the previously unparalleled feat of accumulating over
1000 runs, and accounting for 200 wickets, and equalled
this achievement a year later.
* * * *
Cabled Tuesday that English XI. for first test
beginning this Thursday will be chosen from Maclaren,
Jackson, Fry, Mason, Ranjitsinhji, Jessop, Lilley, Hirst,
Braund, Rhodes, Tyldesley, Hayward, and one other.
Ten of these have previously figured in similar contests in
England, other two (Braund and Mason) played in
Australian tests. Six of the combination belonged to
Maclaren’B last allegedly “inferior” lot. All except
Rhodes are first-class bats, and the bowling strength is
Rhodes, Hirst (easily the best to be found at ’Ome)
Braund, Hayward, Mason and Jessop.
* * • *
Second round of Sydney first grade Metropoli-
tan Rugby competition was got rid of on Saturday.
Thirteen thousand gathered to see ’Varsity and Glebe
contend, and sixpences paid yielded £262. These clubs
tied for supremacy last year, but owing to absence of
N.S.W. toeballers in M.L., and, for other reasons, no
decider was contested. Glebe absolutely ran away with
the match, scoring 31 to Pother’s 9, thus springing a huge
surprise on the opposing side and most of the public who
follow the game. Form got a hard knock in this struggle,
for previous Saturday saw ’Varsity shape excellently
against South Sydney while Glebe had it all out to van-
quish Western Suburbs. North Sydney-Newtown match
resulted in a draw, Western Suburbs beat Balmain by 7
to 6, and South Svdney went under to Eastern Suburbs
9—7.
* * * *
The brutality of football, as played in Britain
by professionals, was never better illustrated than by the
awful accident at the Govan match, England v. Scotland.
A stand collapsed and some hundreds were killed or
wounded ; but the game went on as usual ; it wouldn’t
have been stopped for a thousand funerals.
* * • *
Rev. W. Allan O’Neill (aged 30), of Redfern,
Sydney, plague-stricken last Monday, was, until recently,
champion of Newington College, and centre three-quar-
ter of the best Rugby 15 that institution ever sent out.
* * * *
N.S.W. mannikin pug. “ Tibby ” Watson, who
reached London in March, had a trial go at the swell
National Sporting Club, and three fights in as many
weeks, all limited to 6 rounds. One he won, next was a
draw —which sport writers generally declared should
have been the other way about. In the third he
was walloped. Watson ought to make anything near
his weight (7.10) sit up when he gets him over a
longer journey, where there’s a chance of stamina hav-
ing a say, and the prospects of landing a knock-out punch
are better because of the wider period. Watsou was the
smallest man in the first fighting line here, and always
had to concede heaps of weight ; he seems to be doing
the same thing “ down-under,” though not to as great an
extent.
* * * *
Hottest bruising struggle seen in Sydney for
many months was between Black and Toohey at Sydney
Gaiety A.C. last week. Black punched hard and freely,
but Toohey took it all without a squeak, and came along
for more, ladling out a good dose himself occasionally.
The crowd roared like cheerful hyaenas. Black fought
with sting, and did some clever things that were very
unexpected. Toohey collapsed in the 17th round, and
result proved a facer for most of the clever section which,
when it got the chance, laid 2 to 1 on Toohey.
* * * »
A. Ralston, the Maoriland road-crack, is
riding well this season. In a recent 50-miles road-race at
Invercargill, he started from scratch and ran close up to
the placed-men, covering the 50 miles, unpaced, in 2hr.
20min.—over 21i miles an hour. Ralston promises to be
in grand fettle" to represent Maoriland in the Dunlop
Warrnambool to Melbourne road-race next Sept.*
* * • »
Sydney amateur bikist Somerville a second time
went for the Goulburn-to-Sydney record on Saturday,
and succeeded in reducing both amateur and professional
figures by 7 getting over the 135 miles in 9h. 45min.
Weather was perfect right through, and the miles were
thrown behind at the rate of 14 an hour. Cyclist Lyon
will essay the new task this Saturday.
* * * *
Veteran English racing bikist, J. Green —well
known in Australia—has opened a pub. which means he
has gone the way of athletes and permanently settled
down to win the bingey-growing stakes.
* * * m
Told that French road bikist Lesna purposes
invading Australia in October with some up-to-date motor
pacing machines. Lesna raced here five years back.
Just now the planet doesn’t own a finer long distance
traveller. Last year the big European road grind from
Paris to Berlin fell to him, and later, he showed promi-
nently in the Paris-Brest struggle.
(Continued on page 25.)


BUTTER BY POST
A boon to residents of the back country, where butter is scarce or
unobtainable. Parcels containing from 21bs. to lOlbs. of our CELEBRATED
« GOLDEN STAR ” BUTTER despatched regularly, packed in special card-
board boxes, at SYDNEY RETAIL RATES, plus postage. Remittance should
accompany order. Ask for a catalogue of our other HOME NECESSARIES.
THE N.S.W- FRESH FOOD & ICE CO., Ltd., SYDNEY.
you CANNOT BUY I
BETTER ANyWHEREj
SPORTING MATERIAL-
Canada’s Best Lacrosse Racket, “ The Mcßriety ”;
Baseballs, Bats, and Gloves; our Stock of Boxing
Gloves is the Finest in Sydney; Golf, Tennis, and
every other Requisite.
OUR STOCK OF-
Massey - Harris bicycles
(FOR LADIES and GENTLEMEN)
Is worthy of every Buyer’s inspection. The beautiful designs, quality of material, and
the Special Purchasing Terms are such that it is foolish to miss the opportunities offered.
wr A Special Lot of Second-Hand Bicycles from £4.
Massey-Harris Bicycle Depot: 357 George St. f Sydney .
Branches—Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth.
Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER
After putting in a couple of days lately
dragging the Yarra for the supposed owner of a
cap and pipe found on the bank, the Melbourne
police were requested by an angry cabby to drop
their foolishness and come and arrest a man quick.
Gabby said he was meandering slowly home a
night or two before when a bootless and hatless
gentleman, dripping wet and with a Scotch accent,
stopped him and demanded to be driven in haste
to his boat at Port Melbourne. Cabby complied,
and the moist person disappeared on board. That
was the last he had seen of him —and he wanted
his fare. The law interviewed the fare who said
he was a Scotchman travelling for his health. He
had been strolling along Yarra bank one evening
when three men asked him for a match. This
unusual demand so staggered him that he threw
away his pipe and cap, jumped into the river and
swam across, undoing his boots on the way over.
Then he took the cab and drove aboard. He was
persuaded to pay the fare and left, promising to
send for his cap and pipe from Maoriland, and
grieving much because the police refused to fish
for his boots. Take it all round, it was an
astonishing tale and he was an astonishing person
—but he was a Scotchman. That much is certain.
Robert Brothers writes of Kyabram :
You would think that Kyabram, the accredited initiator
of the bogus “ reform ” movement, would be a regular
thunder-ahd-lightning sort of a place, a home of declama-
tion and denunciation. You would believe that its men
are fiery, untamed, hairy, hungry revolutionaries, so
goaded by oppression and the chanceful struggle for a
crust that they are ready to set Australia in flame and
then go down in song to the unborn as the Kyabramese.
But when you see and hear Kyabram you would wonder
how it came to get up any movement bigger than a
Sunday-school picnic. A Yarra-banker describes the
place as a pub., a store, a blacksmith’s shop and 76 adults.
He was wrong. It is a bit bigger than that. It is a
Wesleyan town, a local-preaching sort of hamlet, where
each fellow in turn holds forth to a few other fellows.
This is how Kyabram oratory powerfully recalls the
pulpit—a second-hand sort of pulpit. It has an oiliness
and sanctity that comes of too much tart and tea and bun-
struggle. Each speaker gets something off his chest in a
meek and mild and gentle sort of way, and before he
speaks he seems to be praying for Divine guidance for
the struggle. I can’t understand how it came about that
Kyabram (of all places) applied the match to the com-
bustible bogus reform movement. The other evening this
holy and suave town set about fanning the flames some
more, and the news was sent about, and special trains ran
so that outside towns could come to help fan. The few
who turned up found the meeting packed and well-padded
with womenfolk, and there was a holy air of sanctity over
the congregation. The men on the platform looked smug
and were evidently holding communion over the momen-
tous struggle they were engaged in. Then the oil of suave
speeches lubricated the congregation. As writer sat and
listened he could distinctly see the old pastor of his
boyhood, when he had laid aside sending us to hell with
big thumps on the big Book, and became one of us in
the enjoyment of the good things provided. Somehow I
seemed to expect that he should knock off speechifying
for a while and sing the 244th hymn, or that some of us
should now and then emit doleful groans, or that one
old hairy reformed one should get up and say, “ Oh,
Lord, what a miserable sinner I have been ! ” One fellow
who had fallen over a scarifier and broken out said that:
“ As he sat there that evening, he could understand what
it felt like to wear corsets," and there w'as a subdued
congregational titter among the female portion of the
meeting. All the evening there was no sparkle of
intellect, no declamation, no denunciation. It was just
a stranded jelly-fish affair. Just such a meeting as one
would expect from a lot of smug, low-down Noncon-
formists, who had clamored for irrigation and entered
into bonds to get it, and then refused to pay for the
blessing, thereby swindling the State of many thousands
of pounds.
The friends (Southampton, Eng.) of Mary
Tucker, who left London for Australia 17 years
ago, are anxious to hear from or about her.
m
mi
Ho a
m
cn
m
UM
Mil
to
MjIG man* 11(1
m
ci
T7IOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “Ellis’ King- Street Coffee Palace,” “S®
situated at 50 KINO STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor — GEO. IF. ELLIS.
“ SHAH.PSHOOTING
For Sport and War.”
ĥ
By W. W. GREENER.
Hits the Mark!
1/- NETT.
If you wish to know how to guard the
Empire—if you are one of those who will
rally round the old flag—read this book.
It teaches all about Rifles and Rifle-
Shooting, how to aim and make allowance,
&c., and it contains chapters.on Ranges
and Rifle Clubs, with a history of the part
played by the Armed Civilian in the past.
The Best Shilling’s Worth Ever Published I
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, for 1/- nett.
Of all Booksellers, or C. W. Buckland, Agent
for W. W. Greener, 317 Collins St., Melb.
By Special
ħ
Appointment.
Or. H. SMITH and SON,
TROPICAL HELMET
with special air-space,
in white drill , &c. and
in all colors in felt.
10/6 and 12/6
Hat and Cap Manufacturers
and Importers,
302 George-st. Sydney
Sombrero Soft Felt Hats,
All Shades and Sizes.
Soft Felt Hombergrs.
In all Sizes and Colors.
Straw Hats. Stetson Hats.
Polo Oafs, Military and Naval
Caps, Livery Hats, Clerical Silk
Hats, Etc., Made to Order
A NIB,
A BOTTLE OP INK,
A SHEET OF PAPER and
A PEN CARBON BOOK
makes a complete outfit with
which any
MAN,
WOMAN OR
CHILD
can write a letter, and at the same
time make an exact copy without
leaving the slightest sign of copy-
ing on the original.
&
7
7/
It keeps a duplicate of bills you send out, of orders, receipts, bank checks. It leaves no vague
uncertain mark, but a tracing that is often clearer than the original.
From its testimony there can be no appeal. It will save any house or family much money by its
indisputable record.
There is no man or woman, professional or not, who would not at some time or other find
THE PEN CARBON LETTER BOOK
A True and Valued Friend.
For fullest particulars, price, etc., write to the sole
Agents for Australasia.: E« RICH & CO. LTD., svdnby BBISB4NE
FOR
CYCLISTS®
GUIDANCE
f
Ill]
For COMFORT and DURABILITY.
None genuine without this OW
Have you received a copy of our
Fine Illustrated Booklet, “ All about
Dunlop Tyres?” Every Cyclist
should have a copy as it contains much _
valuable to wheelmen. Free on application.
TRADE
MARK.
information
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Aus., Limited,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne, Adelaide) Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch (N.Z.).
Under-hand wood-chopping supremacy of
Southern Tasmania was contested Saturday by Helm
(North Huon district) and Harris (Carnarvon). Stakes of
£lOO hinged upon the result, and bushmen came from all
parts to view the struggle. Logs were 2ft. through, and
Oft. fin. round. Helm finished in 3.36 —22,\sec. inside the
world’s best. Helm, the shorter in stature, put in 165
strokes —all short—and had the first half of the job
(prior to turning) finished in 1.39, with Harris only ssecs.
behind ; but latter fell further away subsequently and
completed in 3.s9—Jsec. over the world’s best prior to
Helm’s remarkable performance. Tasmania hasn’t wit-
nessed a better match or more skilful work.
a * * *
Table-tennis craze has a big grip of Sydney.
Championship tourney, finishing at N.S.W. Sports Club
this Saturday, induced 83 entrants and big crowds nightly
for two weeks. Capabilities of contestants on the whole
were poor, but perhaps half-a-dozen top-notchers might
be singled out; and these (boys from 20 to probably 16)
will have the latter stages to themselves. Judged by
their showing, the presence of a big majority in the
tussle was unaccountable, and Could only be ascribed to
“ gall ” of the most pronounced brand.
* * * *
N.S.W. National Coursing Association Derby
and Oaks meet supplied unusually good sport. Great
Heart, an aptly-named beauty, ran chockful of grit and
won a lot to the good. He is by Lindsay Gordon out of
Gipsy Queen. Former is among the best hounds Aus-
tralia has owned, and latter is full sister to famous bitch
Lucille, now at Bathurst in the possession of Tom
Loughnane, and winner in 68 courses of 76 run. Crack
performers Corinthe, Loch Dhu (much fancied for coming
N.S.W. Oha'lenge Stakes), and Bazeke are out of Lucille.
Veteran N.S.W. courser Sam. Bladon owns the Oaks
winner Bequest (by Duke M’Pherson, from Stars and
Stripes) who shaped promisingly.
**‘ * *
Editor Bulletin.—Have just returned from a
long residence in far-northern Australia where the dried-
up native can’t sweat. Going the rounds of my old
Sydney haunts things appeared (to me) very much “ off.”
The rowing-clubs doing practically nothing ; football, as
a game, fallen back, and no athletic club worth mention-
ing. Also, just learned that our N.S.W. eight were beaten
for the ninth successive time, this trip coming absolutely
last; and I pondered much on this apparent decadence.
Next day I was invited to an evening’s “ ping-pong and
progressive euchre,” and now I know the reason. Pasty-
faced, anaemic youths flitted about the tables toying with
babies’ racquets, or sat at progressive-euchre tables bask-
ing in the smiles of equally wooden women. Others
lolled about verandahs sucking cigarettes. Lovely
indulgences indeed for the best years of a young man’s
life —18 to 25 ! No wonder the rep. eight contains no
more men like the Fitzhardinges, J. P. Garvan, Tom
Strange, Brett, Bros, M‘Gill, and Nat M‘Donald ; no foot-
ballers now like Abbott, Walker, Dr. Veech, “Chunk”
Bowman, Carson, and Jim M‘Mahon ; no smiters like
Bonnor, Massie, or Percy M'Donnell; no boxing amateurs
like Seale and Sandall—and the State hasn’t a man in any
of the running distances fit (athletically) to lace-up Mr.
Billy Macpherson’s shoes. So much for ping-pong, pro-
gressive euchre and cigarettes ! —A. J.S.
* * » *
A whist yarn. Four keen players used to meet
daily, but one day one was unavoidably absent, and the
trio lamented their luck till X appeared. “Did he play
whist?” “Of course—very fond of it.” Eureka! and
the game was made. Clubs were trumps, and they being
cleared the dealer and his partner (not X) established
their long spade suit until X and his partner had to dis-
card their long suits. When the 13th round was played,
X played the big black ace of spades, and his partner ex-
ploded : “ Why the deuce didn’t you take the spade trick
and play hearts?” “Why,” said X, “is this the ace of
spades ? Well, it’s the only card in the pack I don’t
know ! ” Then X’s partner burst publicly on the premises
with the expansion of his concealed feelings.
* * * •
Seven people played poker recently on a Ger-
man mail steamer. Their nationalities were—American,
Austrian, Belgian, Dane, Swiss, German and Australian.
A Russian, a Hungarian and a Welshman looked on with
deep interest. Poker is the cosmopolitan game of the
earth.
The threatened departure of Lord Hope-
toun seems to have caused consternation among
those sympathetic people who have been in the
habit of partaking of his Lordship’s refreshments,
So great is their grief that only a more frequent
appeal to their beloved brand of whisky (D.C.L.)
can soothe it. One of the great charms of that
favorite brand is its capacity to provide one with
comfort and solace in the hour of social distress or
business worry. Lord Hopetoun is taking D.C.L.
His sorrowing admirers are taking it, —all well
informed people take it. JD.C.L. the Whisky of
the Wise.
A REAL PICK-ME-UP.—“ Talk about cham-
pagne,” said Byron, “there is nothing which
cheers your spirits up like a dose of salts.” But
had he known Hunyadi Janos he would certainly
have preferred this, the best and safest natural
aperient.*
Martin’s Apiol and Steel Pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia, price 4s. fid.
Agents: Sayers, Allport, and Potter, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor, W. Martin, Pharmaceutical
Chemist, Southampton, England.*
The coming summer should prove a golden
harvest for the London hotels, and the huge Hotel
Cecil, with its fine position overlooking the
Thames, promises to obtain a large proportion of
the best of the visitors who will throng to Eng-
land for the Coronation festivities. As on the
occasion of the Diamond Jubilee in 1897, the
Colonial Office has made arrangements whereby
the whole of the Premiers to be present during
the Coronation will be accommodated at the Hotel
Cecil. These include Sir Wilfred Laurier
(Canada), Mr. Edmund Barton (Australia), Sir J.
Gordon Sprigg (Cape Colony), Sir Albert Hime
(Natal), Sir Robert Bond (Newfoundland), and
Mr. Richard Seddon (M.L.). Other Royal guests
also to be provided for at the Cecil are the Sultan
of Perak and the Chinese Special Embassy. The
management appears to have anticipated, a big
season, and the handsome northern extension on
the Strand is now completed, and will be opened
about the middle of May. Now that this wing is
finished the hotel forms a complete quadrangle,
and may fairly claim to be the largest hotel in
Europe.*
Cabled that King Edward wishes ministers
in the North of Scotland to learn Gaelic so that
they can preach to the Highlanders in their own
tongue. It would be much more to the point if
Edward VII. could formulate some scheme to
preserve a few Highlanders to be preached to.
The map issued with the 1902 edition of the
Statesman’s Year Book marks most of the
northern two-thirds of Scotland as “uninhabited.”
Freetrade is killing British agriculture. The
British landlord is allowed to evict the population
wholesale; it pays him better to turn the land
into a wilderness like William I.’s New Forest,
and let it for deer and grouse-shooting purposes
than to have men on it; and the mere people, the
free enlightened British people, have no right to
be on the surface of their own country if the land-
lord bids them go. So the best fighting race in
the British Isles is disappearing out of the country
as completely as the Tasmanian aborigines have
disappeared. The clans whose army almost
marched on London 157 years ago are practically
extinct in their native Highlands. . That huge
blank area marked “uninhabited” is about the
saddest commentary ever published on the rotten-
ness of the policy of Freetrade and of big estates
owned by dukes and such-like trash.


HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
■Si";;;™:,!™ 1 , s;:.-;- , ;.,: ! ,, ; , ;:'v;«,"]' &MtS2
».T
if allowed to continue be wounds ; the disease
COEE d YOU Ub ? li l t "bn To L'otWf'&Sf
others"have*failed° W
Send at once for reason for not now being cured.
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and FILLS
IlfriSSSSgj!
look for the registered tri»rtp’ , m?»i? e^, *i.^S rc^ iaBerB 8 “ ou ld
30 Days’ Trial.
h
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
A PELI A NCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
. each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for out- Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address :
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
TOILET
SOAP
BEST FOR THE SKIN and
COMPLEXION.
Antiseptic, Emollient, Refreshing.
Sold by Chemists, Stores, &c.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
Tincoeg
A Study of BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, By Dr.
ALFRED NEALE. Posted 7d.
SKIN DISEASES
and their Treatment.
Posted Is Id.
Publishers : Turner and Henderson, SYDNEY,
A Wonderful Inven-
tion. Grand Piano-
like Tone.
The DEUI HARP-ZITHER,
Piano-Harp,
A Harp that Anyone cai‘
Play. Louder thanth<
Large Italian Harp.
ĥ
ħ
Or its tones can be modulated to the soft, sweet tones of the German Zither
In addition to its wonderful tone quality, the Harp lither has a great manv
advantages over all other Zithers. It is the only Zither
while holding vertically like the Harp, or it may be laid upon a
necessary with the ordinary Zither. Upon a table * as 13
,? b3er . ve . the diagonally crossed strings, almost the same as in a piano the
ilody stmnas vassma ovprt.hp r.hnrrfsfvinn* ni , . . piano, ine
melody strings passing over the chord stings By meantof
m construction the similarity in tone and piano is p^duced
. “ pianu is prouucea.
Beautiful in Design, Grand, Resonant Tone, Perfection in Every Point,
and it is the easiest to learn to play of any musical* instrument in existence
A child can play it almost at sight. The reason anyone can play thfs instra-
tna ’ 6Ve ? . thou £ h the . Person may know absolutely nothing
may not have an ear for music, is this : Each string is nuim
n °* e ln bbe muslc > so all one has to do to render the most
difficult selections is to strike the strings as indicated by the numbers- Cnee
we guarantee that anyone able to read figures can learn to play. ’
vJ he / arp ‘ Zl s her la L bmlfc on the lines of the large harp which sells at
£2O and upwards, and to the astonishment of all the Harp-Zither has the
.louder tone of the two ; in fact, its tone is similar to that of a piano
? ID*- SATISFACTION GUARANTEED
As a parlor ornament, the instrument, with its classical nnflinoo ia
unique. For the serenade, the musieale, or any class of entertainment the
r Z eX , C6 S al] other instruments of its class. Its Deep, sympathluc
Tones Penetrate even those Insensible to the Charms of Music * ympatnetle
' e 1 -~ E honised, piano finish, decorated, twenty-three strings three
chords, two picks key, case full instructions, and I lot of figure mus?c
ar ! y ot Australasia. Size of Style 1
v PoS™ Paymen
should be made by Post Office money-order, and orders fo°r goods^ddrS to
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY, 229-231 Collins St, Melbourne.
PRICE 25/-
h
PLAIN NOM€ TALK.
kmbracino
medical common sense
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1200 Pages
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language a thou-
uestions that occur to the minds of young and old but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician.’ Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
"Sn both iJ, ak fl e nH ifc n% SU r ri ° r ? uide to the action of me g n and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embmced
in its covers. The new 1901 edition just arrived traced
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED Complete unabridged
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TaLk’
posted to any address for only 7s. 6d. “ -IALJi,
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking: made easy ; Is 6d post
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d P
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
ls >, P° sfc ls 3d - Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty s Secrets, post free ls. Maria Monk Is 9d
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free ls
The Art of Wrestling, post ls. Hoyle’s Games, post 2/6
Love and Parentage, 8d posted. 1 1
Mtarnw Bmo»™ (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), ls 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One s Self, Is 3d posted. Cloq Dancing Tutor. Is.
Aust. Miners Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d. i
How to Dance, new work, ls posted.
Seoret History of the Court of England, 1/6 post free I
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., is 6d posted' !
Lovers Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true historv) ls 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted j
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), ls 3d post free.’ i
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
n Impost free. How to Play Billiards, is 3d. g
w - Reynolds Court of London Series, 2s ea posted
Physiognomy, is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d ported
How TO Mesmerise, Is 6d posted. 1
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
_ ANT > Write me for any Book you want.
The Wife s Handbook, Is 2d posted.
LID t. If,ULE AND How to Use It, Is 6d post
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d
Nervousness and Its Cure, is 2d posted.'
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages
rwi 60 ° ‘w 13 - Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid
Complete F arrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d *
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted. ’
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is 3d.
Pa, Ma and Baby, by Gust&ve Droz, posted 2s.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music complete), Is 6d
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d
Napoleon s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d posted.
Send for my Illustrated Big Book
Catalogue— post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st. t Sydney.
■ Dr - CJlark3oM.’a Electric Belt,
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
„ ~ , heal th.V condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ studv and
experiments It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs. ' UU JUU
3=>r. Clarkson’s J=l€ s -In. v i S orator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
vigour and causes >' ourheart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent Losing Memo™ ti™
peptic Weak m Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
parts the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-INVIGOR ATOR
will bring happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves anil t ,
THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC Werve and Organs is truly wonderful.
Price ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. perbottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
CALL OR WRITE—
O’YA/'Tj. rate I33rvUGr STORE
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY. *
V
V *
:
...
HERR RASSMUSSEN (HANS PETER RASMUSSEN),
The Celebrated Danish Botanist,
Proprietor and Discoverer of the World-Famed Alfaline Herbal Remedies
which have been the means of effecting the most marvellous Cures for Blood*
Skin and Nervous Diseases ever heard of in Australia.
Herr Rassmussen’s Australian Career:
It is about Twenty Years since Herr
Rassmussen introduced his Herbal Remedies
to the Australian Public. At that time
he was only known to the public as a Botanist
pure and simple, having devoted almost his
whole life to the study of that most useful
and interesting branch of science. It how-
ever, soon dawned on Herr Rassmussen that
immense virtues existed in many plants which
were entirely unknown to medical men, and
that it was his duty towards his fellow man
to bring these new discovered Herbal Remedies
within the means of suffering humanity.
Herr Rassmussen at once set to work,
and his entire energy was directed towards
extracting the medical properties from all
kinds of plants, and putting them up in the
most suitable and practical form, according
to the nature of the complaints which they
had been found a cure for.
Pills and Powders were found to be the
most practical form to administer these new
Herbal Remedies.
. -ft unnecessary to particularise here the
immense success Herr Rassmussen met with
in his venture twenty years ago ; suffice it to
say that in less than twelve months the
great and. wonderful cures brought about by
his Alfaline Herbal Remedies were known
throughout Australia, New Zealand, and many
other parts of the world. Testimonials and
Honors arrived from all parts. Gold Medals
from Paris and other places were awarded, and
Herr Rassmussen’s name has been a house'
hold word ever since.— (Sydney Press.)
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Herbal Remedies!
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
are a guaranteed cure for all Nervous Diseases’
\Veak Spine, 13rain and Nerves, Poor Memory
Tired Feeling, Melancholia, Spots before the
Eyes, etc. Boxes, 6/- and 12/-; courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS
are a permanent cure for Wasting Diseases in
Women, Ansemia, and a perfect Blood and
Nerve Tonic. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-; courses, 23/6,
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS
are a permanent cure for all Chronic Blood
and Skin Diseases, Blotches, Blood Disorders,
Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, &c.
Boxes, 6/- and 12/-; courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE LIVER & KIDNEY PILLS
cure Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulence,
Heartburn, Wind, Biliousness and Headache.
Boxes, One Shilling.
ALFALINE RHEUMATIC PILLS.
Guaranteed to cure Rheumatism, Gout,
Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted 3/-,
6/*> 12/- & 23/6. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
ALFALINE ASTHMA & COUGH PILLS.
A wonderful remedy for Coughs, Colds, Con-
sumption, Bronchitis, Influenza and Asthma-
Boxes, posted, 3/-, 6/-, 12/- & 23/6.
GENERAL REMEDIES.
Alfaline Pile Powders, cure internal and
external Piles, boxes 3/- and 6/-; Varicocele
Powders, boxes 6/-; Blood Capsules or
Globulus, 6/-; Fat-Reducing Powders, which
removes corpulency, 6/-; Hair Restorer, 6/-;
Corn Cure, 1/- ; Ointment, 1/-; Eucalyptus
Oil and Jujubes, boxes 1/-; Flesh-Producing
Powders, 6/-; Worm Tablets, 1/-; Headache
Tablets, 1/-; Electric Belts, Suspenders,
Bandages, etc. Circulars with all particulars
sent Free.
REMEDIES BY POST A SPECIALTY.
TisranS made s P ecial arrangements for attending-
S oar&nl attlnSon S ln tie and Letters wiu
forwarded to sufferers, packed in plain cover and
to Herr RaS?^^ 1111 lce and Directi ons. Letters should be addressed
Rp^s?prpa R ff ens C all name-HANS PETER RASMUSSEN-and
Registered if containing Money.
Herr Rassmussen’s Addresses:
Head Office: 547 GEOEGE STEEET, SYDNEY,
ALSO AT
MELBOURNE —150 Bourke Street
BRISBANE—3O9 Queen Street
ADELAIDE—IS Pulteney Street
N.Z.—9l Lambton Quay, Wellington
W'.A—PERTH—4BI Hay Street
KALG-OORLlE—Hannan Street
BOULDER ClTY—Piesse Street
PREMANTLE—II7 High Street
A FREE BOOK SENT ON APPLICATION,
with Advice, Testimonials, and List of Alfaline Remedies.
ff The Present outbreak of the Monte Carlo
“system ” cranks makes it interesting to note that
the lease of the Casino, which expires in 1913. has
been lately renewed by the syndicate for a further
50 years in consideration of £1,000,000 cash down
and an annuity of £70,000 for the Prince of
Monaco £130,000 yearly for expenses of running
the State (the people going untaxed), and an
annual £9OOO for the bishop and clergy. In con-
sequence of this cute transaction, the other roval
personages of Europe have wiped the name of the
reigning Prince Albert from their visiting lists.
A cheerful lady told the Melbourne
coroner lately that after she had left her husband
for the society of a nicer man the pair proceeded
down street and bombarded her late home with
stones, until her lawful owner came out and
threatened to rebuke the pair of them with a
waddy. A day or two later the newly-acquired
love : 1 )1S dr ay, fatally, whereupon the ladv
went home and took up her humdrum life of virtue
once more. There was no disturbance, nor any
remarks about the stone-throwing episode or the
lui j t6ncle ? cy to wa,lder away. She just cooked
the old man s tea as aforetime, and he just said the
steak was dashed tough and sat down and ate it
as m the happy days of yore.


ĥ
RAMEY’S MEDiCATOR^
For the Treatment of Catarrh Hay Fever,
Bronchitis. Influenza, latarrhal
Deafness, etc.
McJlcaior, with complete treat-
ment, only H&!-, past free.
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY
229,231 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE. 1
TO HORSE-MASTERS.
NOW READY.
The Highly Instructive Book,
“AUSTRALIAN HORSES FROM
PADDOCK TO PARK”
By D. McGILLIVRAY
(The Celebrated Australian Horse Taming, Riding,
and Driving Expert).
A TREATISE on the Scientific Handling, Breaking,
- a - Educating, and the General Management of Horses,
teaching the Author's wonderful methods of completely
subduing the most savage animals living: in a few
minutes, with upwards of 105 splendid illustrations
obtained by instantaneous photography whilst he was
at work upon the wild and raw material.
Obtainable from the following Agents :
Sydney—Messrs. Wm. Brooks & Co. Ltd., 1
Castlereagh-street.
Brisbane—Messrs. Wm. Brooks & Co. Ltd.
Gunnedah, N.S. W. — Messrs. Bacon & Co.
Price, 11s.—post free.
20% discount allowed on large orders.
'CURES
iCOUGH
?ss«f
USED PROMPTLY
r stops
i COLD
MYNAH* HAI*AW
'stops
COLD
AND
j a vatu abte
CasUPtlces
CURE.
la nursery-
m,u°' 2 ' 6,
CURES'
COUGH
ħ
’s
of Aniseed.
h
SAFE AND RELIABLE,
Gives Immediate Relief.
FOR 78 YEARS
THE POPULAR REMEDY FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza, and all Lung Troubles.
the Pllle B m immediately, and removes
tne tickling sensation in the Throat, which de-
prives so many of rest during the night. It also
strengthens the Voice and Cures Hoarseness.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers,
But see the well-known Trade Mark—Lion, Net
and Mouse—is on each wrapper.
r Prepared only by Thomas Potvell, Ltd.,
V Blackfriars, London, S.E. .
Memory - Success
The Best Memories obtain the Best Posi ions.
What contributes to Success ? A good Memory.
What causes Failure in Life? A poor Memory.
AH can obtain a perfect Memory by.the Pci m an
System of Memory Training. Easy, Inter-
esting, an.l Practical. Lost Memories restored- the
worst made good- good Memories improved. No
mere theory, but a genuine aid every moment- o f the
day. Any book whatever mastered in one reading.
Prospectus Post Free, giving the Opinions of Editors,
Business Men, Doctors, Lawyers, Clergymen,
Students, and others who have studied aikl succeeded
by the aid of the Pelman System. Taught
thoroughly by Postal Lessons at anytime.
Class Lessons afe the Pelman School every Tuesday at
3 and 8 p.m. Address, for particulars, free to all, 4
PaooMSBURY St., London, or Melbourne Branch,
G.P.0., 80x402.
Memory Means Money.
riJJi
CORSETS
♦
The Recognised Standard of
HIGH-CLASS CORSETS
LATEST SPECIALTY
Straight Front
Erect Form.
Obtainable from Leading Drapers
E verywhere. *
Avoid Inferior Imitations, and see that each
pair bears the Manufacturer’s “ Trade Mark ” on
inside, as above.
m
the c
&D.CO
SOAP BLOTCHES.
A soap-boiling factory smells bad
because of the putrid bad fats
used. Bad fats make Toilet Soaps
poisonous to the skin, and produce
“soap blotches.” VI NOLI A is
sweetest and safest for the com-
plexion and bath.
LIFE HAS
A RELISH
SAUG
When our meals are
seasoned with
>
SAUCE.
ev c
lists
!>*' etes :
e» ca ' ,p »°n
. CV^ eS
i&* - atv& ro \ds-
atvd Co.
c °;«v‘ tatxoos '-
I\v°
id
RUPTURED.
Dr. W. S. Rice, the well-known New York Hernia'
Specialist, sends a trial of his famous method FREE
TO ALL. Anyone can now cure themselves at
home without pain, danger, operation, or an hour’s
loss of TIME FROM WORK.
At the earnest request of British patrons, Dr. Rice
has opened Branch Offices at 9d Stonecutter St.,
London, E.C., and to the thousands upon thousands
of ruptured people who are torturing themselves
with bad trusses, and are in momentary danger of
death from strangulation, will send free to all a
trial of his famous method that has saved so many
lives and made so many men, women, and children
well and strong and permanently cured of bad Rup-
tures, Do not be backward about writing for the
FREE TRIAL. It will cost you nothing, and will
enable you to see how easily you can cure yourself
in a short time without losing an hour from work.
Dr. Rice is determined that every suffering man or
woman shall know the wonderful truth that Rupture
can be cured, and he therefore generously sends,
prepaid by post, his method absolutely free, and you
can make a trial of it. Remember that it is the
same method that Mr. Thomas Blay (whose picture
is given below) used ; and who can deny the truth
when it is put before them in so clear a light ? It
must indeed, be welcome words to the afflicted
"W>
WORDS OF PRAISE FROM Mr. BLAY.
_ _ No - 5 . Ripley Terrace, Luddenden Foot,
vv - s - R'? e - „ April, 6,1901.
Dear Sir,—After using your treatment for three
months 1 find myself cured of my Kupture, at the
age of 55. I had been ruptured for ten years
I shall advise all people afflicted with this com-
plaint to use your treatment, as I know from
experience that it will cure permanently. You must
have a wonderful knowledge of rupture to fit one
so perfectly without seeing the rupture.
I am in good health now, something I have not
enjoyed for ten years before. You can use this
letter m any way you choose, and I hope it will
guide others to a perfect cure.—Yours truly,
There is absolutely no question about the curative
ability of this combined and perfected method. It
has stood the test of time; it has been through the fire
of critical cases; it has come out victorious in every
curable instance. It has saved the child to a life of
independence ; it has given the youth his natural
endowment of health and strength to fight the battle
i.a e succe ssfully; it has conquered the blight upon
old age and turned years of suffering into ending
days of joy and gladness. Whoever is Ruptured or
knows a person suffering with Rupture, should keep
m mind the fact that in eighty per cent, of all cases
there is a daily liability that before night they may
say good-bye to earthly things. Does not this fact:
influence one to pause and consider whether they
are using their best efforts in the way a wise Creator *
intended they should ? And if the forethought, the
research, and the painstaking effort of one who.
invents and studies for the relief of others is placed'
in our hands, is it notour duty to read and listen:
patiently, that we may take advantage of that which;
contributes to our earthly benefit?
A Distinct Advance in Infant Feeding.
'** Ttilimoay, Blrwfl^
fit Hanbow
M, ®n &Ha
■ H
JUlenbunis* Foods.
The Allenburys Foods provide .nourishment suited to the growing digestive powers
of the Infant, and constitute an altogether distinct advance on the mischievous expedient of trying
to make the ehiid’s stomach accomodate itself to a food essentially unsuited to its digestive powers,
arenaceous foods of ail kinds a>’e totally unfit for infants under five or six months of age, such foods
e!r '° a potent cause of digestive troubles, rickets, and many disorders arising from mal-nutrition.
The “Allenburys" Foods are especially valuable in hot
chmates. They are in the form of powder and keep perfectly.
»■ p ‘‘ mphM “ " lass:-
ALLEN S’ HANBURYB, Ltd., London, Eng.
MILK FOOD No. 1.
From birth to three months.
MILK FOOD No. 2.
From three to six months.
MALTED FOOD No. 3.
From six months and upwards.
Australia is just now remarkable for
•nothing so much as undetected and unpunished
murders. Dalke and Doyle, are supposed to have
been murdered by the Keniffs, and the Keniffs
seem to have vanished into space. In the Ithaca
case; the'medical evidence is that the girl was
not “outraged.” It was a case of plain murder.
No murderer has yet been caught. Recently an
old womaii was found dead in her hut at Illawarra
(N.S.W.) with a gash across her forehead. Her
purse was empty when the body was found. Of
the murderer not a trace has been discovered. In
all these three very recent cases the black-tracker
seemed to ha ve been relied on i m plicitly to find traces
of the supposed criminals. Even at his best the
myall black was never a match for a white man
who really knew the bush. Take him out of his
own country, and he is almost as useless as a raw
newehum. Now the drink-sodden town or station
blacks, whom the police commonly employ as
trackers, are good for little but to cut and cart
firewood for the station, run up the horses in the
paddock, and act as grooms for the sergeant or
the inspector. In very few cases have they con-
tributed to an arrest. In fact, the tracker is an
exploded superstition, and the sooner he is
abolished and the police learn to trust to such wit
as they have, the better it will be


.Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue *
h
The warning cough is the
faithful sentinel. It tells of
the approach of consump-
tion, which has killed more
people than war and pesti-
lence combined. It tells of
painful chests, sore lungs,
weak throats, bronchitis,
and pneumonia. Do not
suffer another day. It’s use-
less, for there’s a prompt and
safe cure. A cure for fresh colds
and old colds, easy coughs and hard
coughs—
Ayer's
Cherry Pectoral
It often cures a fresh cold in a single
night, and it masters chronic coughs
and bronchitis in a short time. Con-
sumption is certainly prevented, and
cured, too, if taken in time.
If anybody tells you that consump-
tion cannot be cured, they are certainly
mistaken, for we have thousands of
these cases reported to us, absolutely
cured, and no mistake about it.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral Plaster placed
directly over the tender, aching lung
is a great aid to the Cherry Pectoral.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell, Masi., U S. A.
Mademoiselle
ANTONIA DOLORES
Fourth Australian Tour.
Sydney
Brisbane
... June 3rd and sth
June 14th, 16th, 18th
NORTHERN QUEENSLAND TOWNS to follow.
Melbourne
ADELAIDE and PERTH to follow.
Middle of July
Under the direction of Mr. F. VERT.
JAMES TAIT, Manager.
ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY OF N.S.W.
Grand coronation BALL
Towo Hall, Sydocy
GTO
Thursday, June 26,1902
TICKETS: Qentlemen - - - 15 s. Gallery, 3s. (Including
Ladies - 12 s. 6d. Refreshments).
Lady and Gentleman (Double) 255. f. Webster, Sbcbbtary.
i mv uivh
aooo
All Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
OS' For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
SSr For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington H. Soul & 00.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT
HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE
mim
ĥ
ħ
A Beautiful Solid GOLD RiMG Set with a Genuine Garnet.
NO MONET WANTED.
Simply send us your name and address, plainly written on a postal card, and we will send you
20 packages of our Imperishable Violet Perfume in a box— free of all expense to you. You
then sell the perfume among your friends and neighbours at 6d a package (if you can), and
when sold you remit us the money you have collected and we will send you Absolutely Free
for your trouble the above described ring, which is stamped and warranted Solid Gold,
set with a Genuine Garnet. Remember you have no duty or charges of any kind
to pay— both the perfume and premiums are sent absolutely Free of all charges. Our
object in making this marvellous offer, and giving such unusual fine premiums, is to get our
very superior perfume into the hands of the public immediately, as we are satisfied that everyone
will be so well pleased with it that they will gladly recommend it to their friends—we have
hundreds of unsolicited testimonials. You simply send your name and address plainly written
on a post card, and we will send the perfume. No money required. We take all risk. Goods
returnable if not sold. Remember we pay all Shipping Expenses.
NATIONAL SUPPLY CO., Dept. F. 38 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Ask your music-seller for
FREDERIC H. COWEN’S
Beautiful Song,
The Mission of a Rose
Sung with the greatest success by
Mlisa A.3WEY CASTLES.
The Illustrated London News says : “ It is a gem.”
Amusements.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
LAST 12 NIGHTS of the Season of J. C. Williamson’s
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
LAST 12 NIGHTS of
A RUNAWAY GIRL.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
YCE U M THE A T RE, SYDNEY?
Lessee .. .. .. Mr. Wm. Anderson.
Sub Lessee .. .. Bland Holt.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of BLAND HOLT’S
Phenomenal Spectacular Attraction,
IN SI6HT or ST. PAUL’S.
SATURDAY EVENING NEXT, MAY 31, First Time
in Sydney, IN LONDON TOWN.
POPULAR PRICES —3s„ 25., Is. Box Plan at Elvy's.
. CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY?
Sole Lessee MAUD WILLIAMSON.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING, at 8,
TXXEI CHRXSTIA.KT,
An Original Enthralling Version pronounced by Press
and Public the Greatest Dramatic Success yet achieved.
ALFRED WOODS .. JOHN STORM.
GLORY QUAYLE .. MAUD WILLIAMSON.
Supported by the Full Strength of the WOODS-
WILLIAMSON COMPANY.
Popular Prices—3s., 25., Is.
EWBURY-SPADA Is. “POPS."
Is. “Pops.” CENTENARY HALL, YORK ST.
Is. “Pops.” NEXT SATURDAY EVENING, the Great
Is. “Pops.” English Tenor, Mr. PHILIP N£W3URY
Is. “Pops.” is creating a perfect furore.
Is. “Pops.” The Popular Prima-Donna, Wa lame EMILY
Is. “ Pops.” SPADA, receiving storms of applause.
Is. “Pops.” GRAND ARTISTIC COMBINATION.
Is. “ Pops.” B3T Full Programme Saturday's Paper*.
Is. “Pops.” ADMISSION, ONE SHILLING.
Is. “Pops.” Reserved Seats 25., at Nicholson’s.
Telephone, 168 Waverley. ARCHIBALD NEWBURY.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessees .. .. Messrs. LEE and RIAL.
Sub-Lessee .. Mr. FRANK THORNTON.
Representative, Mr. Mayne. Agent, Mr. H. P. Lyons.
SATURDAY NIGHT, 31st MAY,
Mr. FRANK THORNTON (after an absence of foul
years), supported by his Specially-Selected
LONDON COMEDY COMPANY, ,
including Messrs. Joseph Wilson, Alexander Bradley,
Galwey Herbert, Frank Wilson, John-.Denton, Mesdames
Vera Fordyce, Phoebe Mercer, Leonie Norburv, Katie Lee.
First Production in Australia of the Funniest Farce-
Oomedv of the Day, written by J. H. Darnley, entitled,
FACING THE MUSIC.
As played at the Strand Theatre, London, with enormous
success, for over 300 nights.
Preceded at 8 o’clock by the Musical Farce, A TEST MATCH
by Bower and Fitzgibbon. Music by Guy Jones.
PRICES—6s., 35., and One Shilling. Box Plan on
view at Elvv’s.
I v u l I THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards
Mr. JAY W. WINTON and M'CINTY,
the Wonderfully Clever Yentriloquial Entertainer.
ZOBEDIE, the Clever Hand-balancer and Ascentionist.
LAST WEEK of PEGGY PRYDE.
LAST WEEK of CALLAHAN and MACK.
Electric Success of PROFESSOR FRED. HARCOURT.
Tremendous Success of HARRIS and WALTERS,
THE FAMOUS JACKSON FAMILY.
Re-appearance of the Popular NET BALL Players.
Prices—2/6, 2/-, 1/6, 1/-, and 6d. Early Doors 6d. Extra.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Acting Mgr., A. MIDDLETON.
ICKARDS’ NEW 6 PERA HOUSE,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mr. HARRY RICKARDS
EVERY EVENING, at 8 p.m.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS at 2.30 p.m.
MR. TOM NAWN & COMPANY.
MR. and MRS. SYDNEY DREW.
THE LUNDCREENS, PEGGY PRYDE, RAY JONES,
WESTON & YOST, JENNIE OPIE, CASELLI SISTERS,
The Great American Novelty, NET BALL.
Prices —2s. 6d., 25., Is., and 6d. Plan at Allan’s.
HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Lessee .. .. .. Mr. Bland Holt.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. William Anderson.
Bus. Manager, James Hendv. Treas., Julius Grant.
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION, headed bv Miss EUGENIE DUGGAN.
EVERY EVENING, ' EVERY EVENING,
A Great Production Enthusiastically Received. The
Historical Naval Drama,
THE MARINERS 9F ENGLAND.
Prices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
RINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. George Musgrove.
EVERY EVENING,
the Bright and Sparkling New Comic Opera,
THE THIRTY THIEVES,
interpreted by a Specially-Selected Combination of Eng-
lish, American and Australian Comic Opera Artists.
! jsgr° Prices as Usual. Matinees Every Wednesday.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Associate Manager and Stage-Director, Mr. H. H. Vincent.
Bus. Manager, R. Stewart. Treas., E. J. Tait.
BRILLIANT DRAMATIC SUCCESS of
JVIISS JANET WALDORF.
EVERY EVENING, the Most Ponular of all Dramas,
A ROYAL DIVORCE.
A New and Tremendously Powerful Caste.
JOSEPHINE, MISS JANET WALDORF ; NAPOLEON,
MR. H. H. VINCENT.
Prices as Usual. Hs3i Box Plan at Allan's.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessees .. .. Henry Lee and J. G. Rial.
MAY 31, GRAND OPENING NIGHT of
THE WORLD’S ENTERTAINERS,
Comprising the Most Attractive and Up-to-date
Vaudeville Organisation ever seen in Australia.
.00 Artists will Present a Programme Replete with
Fun and Novelty.
NO ADVANCE IN PRICES—3s., 25., and Is.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
Business Manager, HARRY MUSGROVE.
EVERY MAN
SUFFERING from DEBILITY and WEAKNESS shoulo
send for a valuable Pamphlet explaining how all
Nervous and Organic Derangements may be success-
fully treated without stomach medication. The method
is easy and pleasant, and will effect a perfect and per-
manent cure. Sent in a plain sealed envelope free of
charge. E. NORTON, 59 &60 Chancery Lane, London,
jjj Eng. Over 30 years’ continuous success. £
LADIES
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address— L.D.1.. 300 Collins Bt., Melbourns
At Poverty Point.
Maggie Moore and Harry Roberts were married in New
12- » T ? e York He!IAI ’ d > in its Sabbath-
breaking edition of April 13, has a story about how the
named'f'hTrle, T° t | ler ' in ' a Mell »ume capitalist
„ Taylor, sent him a “ check ” for £25,000 as
a eddl ”£ P resen .t- Also it states that the bride is
The Rohl°/ a a M COnS - ld |r rable fortune > all made on the stage,
often rw fc > M - a?rB?e Moore marriage has been rumored so
oiten that it is, m a manner of speaking, a load off the
public mind to have it fixed up at last.
bi W of U t-ooo N begS t 0 nomir »ate Charles Arnold, at a
Ant[™£l i '°A oa Jl ar,as the “ext Governor-General of
Arnold has an intellectual face and abundant
was , generally voted as looking
hea\ enly in his uniform when he played “ Captain Fritz,”
i an i° 1 ’ le of tbe b F 3t duties of a Governor-General is to
iff f. J?eaVen Vr ln h i 3 umform - He doesn’t drink nor fall
things He suffers from gout, which is an aristocratic
complaint, and one that no Governor-General should be
wmnout. He has a knowledge of elocution, which would
enable him to open Parliament better than it has been
opened for a long time. And Miss Dot Frederics, as
Mrs. Governor-General, should satisfy anybody.
. T-D- : When the Melb. fashionable amateurs who
doln ? “ A R unaway Girl” approached manager
Williamson for permission to stage the piece, he was
simply flabbergasted at their cheek, and blurted out some
remarks to that effect, but consented to their staging the
Girl, if they really felt sure they could do it. The
average girl without stage abandon trying to follow the
Man from Cook’s will be about as graceful as a baby
C H ,n ?f u Ju hey i " te " d doin S the thing three nights, but' I
shall be there the first, to make certain of seeing some-
thing new in legs.
Dear Bulletin.— l have noted with regret a vast defi-
ciency in your list of “ Sundry Shows ” (Melb.) during
the last few weeks. You publish no criticisms of an
entertainment running to crowded houses at the Exhibi-
tion Building every night, with matinees at the Town
Hall at 1 and 3 p.m. The American Mission Novelty co.,
though supposed to be of a religious nature, is, in all re-
spects, artistic and commercial. It has got the daily
press by the wool; photos, of the star performers are
exhibited in the shops; big calico signs are placed in
conspicuous positions all over the city ; copies of the
music used at the performances, and books written by
the players, are on sale at the doors and in the shops.
True, there is no box-plan. Admission is free. But, once
inside, the players’ powers of taking money are so good
that it practically amounts to a silver-coin admission.
The ‘ stars, ” it should have been mentioned, are Geil and
Torrey.
Fritz Muller, the young Melbourne pianist, turns out to
have been not quite such an infant as was supposed in
Sept. ’99 when he departed this country for Berlin. What
time Miss Castles figured in a short frock as “ little Amy,”
her rival prodigy, Fritz (who made his last public appear-
ance at her farewell concert, and followed her to Europe
a few days later) was understood to be in his 11th year.
The fragile youngster certainly looked no older. Now, in
a casual way, the Berlin reports of Fritz Muller’s progress
mention that he was 16 last January, i.e., he was
a youth of 13J when Melbourne last saw him. If
this is a true bill, some future mannikin instrumen-
talist of 21, with 15 years tuition up his sleeve,
may yet appeal to credulous enthusiasts as a child per-
former whose talent is great by comparison with that of
superior artists actually younger than himself? It is
satisfactory for the Melb. supporters of Fritz to learn that
Herr Joachim praises him for “ an unusually gifted young
man.” At the same time it is laughable to think that the
small boy of less than three years ago has already come to
be called any sort of “ man.”
Harry Rickards has not done too well at Adelaide
Tivoli, now temporarily closed. In future his Adelaide
co. will occasionally tour W.A., and the pious city will no
longer have a continuous vaudeville show. The only
thing that is absolutely dead certain in Adelaide is the
W.C.T.U.
“ Melb.” : Demise, Charley Walsh, age 78. His right
name was Charles Edward Pugh, his latest employ keep-
ing a Fitzroy hotel, whence he migrated from the Hen
and Chickens, Little Collins-st., where he had a great
fright, from Beath’s fire opposite. Charley sprang from
highly respectable licensed victualling interests, in Lon-
don. Came to Melbourne about 50 years ago and engaged
at the Queen’s. Acted Sir Oliver Surface in the “ School
for Scandal” at the opening of Melb. Royal, and long
remained on the Australian stage. His last Melb. engage-
ment was with Barry Sullivan, and he acted Green Jones
in the “Ticket of Leave Man.” Returned to London, and
was well known at minor theatres there. Came back to
Melbourne about 20 years ago.
“The advance booking at Drury Lane for Ben Hur
is of a most contrasted kind. While the religious
character of the play is drawing ecclesiastical
bookers, the reports concerning the chariot race
are enticing bookers from the sporting division, and
on first night you will find these widely-divergent enthu-
siasts sitting side by side.”—London Referee. Add the
Hebrew element (which is always strong everywhere on
first nights), and it reads quite like the opposition to a
Totalisator Bill, doesn’t it?
Mr. Stinson, photographer.—Please call
at Bulletin office and see manager.
Sydney plague-outbreak scored another
Australian record on Monday, when the Rev.
W. A. O’Neill, a clergyman of a manly, vigorous
type, was attacked. He was infected, it is
thought, by “slumming.”
The solidity of the Labor Party in N.S.W.
(just now the only party with any very definite
policy) was shown by Pyrmont bye-election.
Labor candidate M'Neil scored 875 votes of 1302
cast, having three opponents.
The (N.S.W.) British Empire League—a
fierce association of pink-eyed rabbits and Italian
greyhounds—intends “to bring before Parlia-
ment” the opposition of Messrs. Holman and
Griffith to the pro-Gore policy and make them feel
that they cannot “ ride over the feelings of
Britishers with impunity.”
The Federal Senate’s “amendments” in
the tariff at this stage represent nothing but an
exceedingly cheap display of alleged principle.
The real fight will come when the Reps, send back
refusals in 9 out of 10 of the amendments. It is
odds on that the Govt, then —at the right time—
will have a majority.
Sydney University law students re a public
statement by W. A. Holman, M.L.A.
That since the Battle of Agincourt England had been
“ nowhere” as a European military power, and had never
fought any battle since then without the aid of foreign
allies, who greatly outnumbered the British troops,
decided, with school-boy satire, to present him
with a copy of “ Little Arthur’s History of Eng-
land,” the most inane of the many inane English
histories. Holman’s statement was, in the main,
true enough (if he had said ‘ * campaign ” instead
of “ battle ” it would have been almost absolutely
true), though it hadn’t got much practical appli-
cation. But do the University children really
think that one gets facts from “Little Arthur,”
or from the average English history, as to
England’s doings? Do English histories, for
instance, tell of the employment of German
mercenaries or Red Indian scalpers against the
American colonists ? Do they mix up with facts
as to the glorious Crimean victories a quotation of
Acts 18 and 19 of Queen Victoria’s reign when,
after England had sent 30,000 men to the Crimea,
the English Government pleaded that they could
raise no more British troops for foreign service,
and sought for and obtained Parliamentary
authority to enlist 15,000 foreigners to form
“the thin red line”! Historical truth? You
can only get it by reading all the different nations’
accounts and finding out the truth from many
falsehoods.
As this issue goes to press the negotia-
tions for peace in S’Africa are apparently coming
near a conclusion. The frenzied Australian and
M.L. Jingoes who declared that the only terms
were unconditional surrender, and that the Empire
would be disgraced if any conditions whatsoever
were entertained, are on a back seat for the time
being. And Seddon, fooling around in S’Africa,
is in danger of not arriving in London till the war
is all over, and then there will be a terrible slump
in his importance. There was something pathetic
about the big man’s cablegram to the 10th Con-
tingent that peace was threatening, and if it
didn’t hurry up it might not arrive in time—to
slay anybody or burn anything.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
.Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drises away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Broughton, N.S. Wales M.L.A., has dis-
covered the great secret of politics—that the
public has a short memory, and the opinion of
yesterday doesn’t matter so long as the opinion of
to-day suits. He is just now in the forefront of
the agitation to reduce the number of M’s.P.,
though in October last his view, according to
Hansard, was this:
I have modified my views since April last. My short
experience of Parliamentary life has taught me that it
would be absolutely out of the question to have any
reduction in the number of members representing the
country constituencies. I myself would be quite pre-
pared to vote for a reduction of the number of city con-
stituencies, but I shall strenuously oppose any reduction
in the number of country members.
A pretty good record : April, 1901, for reduction
of members; October, 1901, against reduction;
April, 1902, for reduction. Sydney D.T. gets
very angry with its rival in jump-Jim-Crowism.
Mr. Broughton is very small potatoes indeed, and
this frost-bitten but angry press antagonism
and his cheerful weather-cock ways threaten to
make him quite an important political personage.
Some remarks by “ Aus.” :
The regulations of the N.S.W. Arbitration Court are a
sad-eyed brood, and look as if they had been hatched in
a legal mare’s nest. F’rinstance: Wanted to lodge an
application with the court for leave to begin proceedings
under Section 35 of the Act, and found that the regula-
tions contained no provision for the wording of such
application ; but it was set forth in Section 16 that “ any
person entitled to make an application to the court or
president, the procedure in respect of which is not other-
wise provided by these rules, shall make such application
by summons in Form 7 hereto.” Now Form 7 is simply
the form of summons to be served on the defendant, and
if used in making an application for leave to begin pro-
ceedings, would simply resolve itself into the court sum-
moning itself to appear before itself to satisfy itself
whether, under the regulations framed by itself and the
Act framed by someone else, there existed any good
reason to justify it in granting leave under Section 35 of
the Act. Didn’t make any application on Form 7. Felt
too tired.
An officer in Ashbourne’s Light Horse,
writing from S’Africa to a friend in England
Out of one trainload of 260 horses that arrived yester-
day 72 were dead, lying at the bottom of the trucks, and
we had to kill 47 more. We know all about the re-mount
scandal, and the fact of having to put 219 out of their
misery in a consignment of 280 causes no surprise. . . .
Many of the boys sent here as Imperial yeomen hadn’t
ever been astride a horse before. Three days are allowed
us to make riders of them. We have no less than 30 of
these poor fellows down with double rupture. These
men are crippled for life, and there are hundreds in other
camps.


WOOL. PRODUCE. GRAIN.
The New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Coy., Ltd., SYDNEY,
aCT a s SBLXjIMG- BROKERS ONLY.
Consignors are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of this Co.np my.
WOOL
COMMISSION FOR SELLING THREE-QUARTERS (f) PER CENT.
WAREHOUSING
''(lncluding Receiving into Store, Fire Insurance,
Weighing, Lotting, Repacking, Sample Bales,
Advertising, Cataloguing, etc.) on Wool real-
ising over SIXPENCE per lb. the charges .
will be 3s. 9d. per Bale.
On Wools realising SIXPENCE and over Four-
pence per lb J -• ... 2s. (id. per Bale.
On Wools realising FOURPENOE per lb. and
under ls - 6d ' P er Bll °'
Perfect System of Weighing.
Way Bills sent on Application.
PRODUCE
SALES of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, etc., HELD WEE ELY.
WHEAT.
■hi • offered e-rowers to consign their grain for realisation by the Company
AmllSoSSS fa'p^iS. g TlSmonthsfLa.cgfi, allowed Circuit are sent when
desired giving cost of railage and full particulars as to Charges, Advances, etc., etc.
AGENTS FOR. McDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP.
THE
‘PLUM’
the
THE
‘PLUM’
I?NTI Ti'MPN —This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
thffr merits WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 78. od.
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Price -f'
Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d;
Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Rai
Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Oase, 219.
irs, Ivory Handles, in beautiful oase, 30s.
Sole Agetvts
Registered and sent Post Fees to any part of the World.
r~ Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL, you enjoy your lunch
George and Market Sts.,
SYDNEY.
APARTMENTS:
BEDROOM (single), 3s. per DAY.
BEDROOM (double), 6s. per DAY.
Single Room, with Pull Board, Bs. per
day, or £2 2s. per week.
TERMS. The convenient
system of paying for the
room on arrival and
meals as they are had.
When you come to Roberts’ Hotel
Dining Rooms ; and you not only
enjoy it, but it does you good as
well. There is always a large and
tempting variety of excellent food on
our menu, and on Fridays there is a
special fish luncheon for those who
want it in addition to the ordinary.
The luncheon is ready at twelve
o’clock sharp—from Is. —and there
is first-class attendance. Dinner and
tea from 5.30 to 7.3 o—from Is.
upwards. Silver grill at work.
LOVELY COLORS.
BRILLIANT
GLOSS.
REJECT
IMITATIONS.
a
«
m
-
SPINALIS
.. OXIDISED j
ENAMEL. |
i||:;iiii:imiii.ii.iii mu it urn
READY FOR USE
iplpi if
ERFECT
■gJßja;;
B'ECT* O NS" FO R USE
EW CROSS. LONDON. S.E
■ <
ms
wmmim
See that Aspinall’s name
and Medals are stamped
on every Tin.
MANUFACTURED BY
ASPINALL’S ENAMEL, Ltd, NEW CROSS,
LOHOOH, ENG.
J. BARTRAM & SON,
34 & 36 Market Street, Sydney otaSSSS?»SU
19, si, 23 King street, Melbourne.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES . . .
The ENGLISH DE LAVAL STEAM TURBINE CO. LTD., Leeds.
ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send a
write for any Information. Country Orde
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers &. Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair,
jgf” Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Siock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia.
cnAIGr & AITKBKT,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 George Street, Sydney.
WANTED
TP YOU ARE SUFFERING from any of the following
ailments, viz., Rheumatism, Sciatica, Vital Weak-
ness, River Complaint, Dyspepsia, Lame Back or
Debility, Kidney Disease or any Orsanic Derange-
ments, we want you to wear one of our ELECTRI
BELTS, and when CURED to let other sufferers know
that our ELECTRIC BELTS will permanently CURE
when all other Remedies have FAILED. We prefer those
cases who have failed to obtain relief elsewhere. Send
us a description of your case, and size around the waist
next to skin. Address —
ARTHUR HALE & SON, Medical Galvanists,
44 Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
London Address: 105 Regent Street, W.
h
ĥ
Rupture.
The great Amercan In-
vention—“ Dr. PIERCE’S
\ Magnetic Elastic Truss”
is accomplishing the most
cures. Noth-
in ing like it ever before
known. Reliable retain-
er and actual curative for
Rupture. Gives ease and
comfort. Established over a quarter of a Cen-
tury, its fame has extended to all parts of the
world. If ruptured investigate at once. Send
a stamp for price list and Booklets on Rupture.
Address :-Maonetic Elastic Truss Co., 206 Post
St., San Francisco,U.S A., or W. H- Soul & Co.,
Australian Agents. 160 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S. W.
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney
Sending, mention this paper.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
QS R J CO HD’s
e,SS^ t4CE ° f F
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 128. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
oHHrPCfiprf pnvplonp
Agents for Australasia —PERRY & CO., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne ; Wholesale Agents for New South Wales —
F. H. Faulding' & Co., 16 O’Connell St., Sydney. All
Chemists.
ħ
DEAF
h
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
■howlong standing. Arethesame
' to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free, a
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St.j Melbourne.
DR. J. DOLUS BROWNE'S
rHLORODyNE
Caution.—Genuine Chlorodyna
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DLARRHGIA, bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
IHE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS o!
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forma
its best recommendation.”
iififewsS
vz&m &
’ A Wonderful power is placed at your
disposal in Hypnotism—the power to control
others— to relieve disease— to make friends
•—to make money— and gratify your
ambition. You may become a commanding
master of humanity. In fact, there is so much
that is wonderful to tell you about it that I bav*
written a book for that purpose. It hag 31
illustrations.
Anyone can be a Hypnotist It (s merely a matter o{
knowing how All possess (he power—both men and women.
Somep-rso ns exercise alight hypnotic influence unconsciously
No doubt you have met such people. They are the kind who
succeed in the world with no apparent effort.
By a knowledge of Hypnotism, bad habit*, hervousdiseases,
bad dispositions, sleeplessness, and other afflictions may be
cured often m a single treatment Backward or ungovernable
children show marvellous improvement under hypnotic
treatment at the hands of their parents or other*.
I have taught thousands of hypnotists in America. Hun.
dreds of delighted students in Australia already 1 reach
•ough my book The system is . .
why you should not becom
ras I am. Satisfaction guaranteed.
Send address jn full, together with three stamps. You
will ihen receive ••The Ke, to Hj.pnotl.nl," polled in
* plain cover. Absolutely Free.
PROFESSOR C." E. BARRIHQTQH,
America'* QraeUat Hypnotist,
I*o TO IOT GOWNS ST.. ««<4e
BLAIR’S
GOUT $ RHEUMATIC
PXIiXiS.
The Great English Remedy for
GOUT, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA,
LUMBACO & NEURALGIA.
The acute pain is quickly relieved and cured in a
few days by this celebrated Medicine.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, and sold at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d.
per box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
“Don’t shout”
" I hear you. I can hear now
as well as anybody.
■"How?' Oh. some-
thingnew— The Wilson
Common-sense Ear-
Drum. I've a pair in my
ears now, you can't see them
\ they're invisible. I wouldn’t
know I had them in myself,
only that I hear all right.”
The Wilson Ear-Drum is
really a substitute for the
parts of the
natural ear. Has no
wire. Invisible, easy to ad
just, comfortable Totally
different from any other de-
vice Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request
■I. CUAIMfgS, 229-231 Collins St., Mela.,
ĥ
ħ
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS,
h
With Patent RUBBER EKEI
and HANDS.
Sole Agents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English
American and made to order
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, <Sce.
DENYER BROS.. Surgical Instrument Makers
281 GEORGE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
P.;i I
Vapor Bath Cabinets.
Price, 25/-
Head and Face Steamer, 3/6
Carriage paid to any railway station
on direct route in Victoria, N.S.W.,
and S.A., or any seaport town.
We also have a better quality
Cabinet at 45/- (Head and Face
Steamer free to advertise this line).
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY,
229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
nypftotism
m
Reader, why not he able to use the
most mysterious and powerful force of
nature? By my method you can learn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all the many marvellous feats
that are possible to the Hypnotist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain ; win reluctant affection,
gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explains
the mysteries and secrets
of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever published. For a short
time I wi'l send this magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed on
receipt of 6d. ( tamps) to cover
postage. Order to-day and learn
to Hypnotize. It is a chance of i
a life-time. Address— *
ĥ
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Dr. LANGSTON’S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
A Tested and Infallible Remedy»
Within the reach of all, can be given SECRETLY.
NO FAILURES. CURES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Home Treatment without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections. Call or write lor treatise, posted,
two stamps. Prepared only at the Laboratory of
SURGEON, LANGSTON
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
NASAL POLYPUS
and Similar Growths in the Nasal
and Post-Nasal Passages . . .
CURED WITHOUT OPERATION.
fW Hundreds of cases successfully treated. Write f or
particulars to . . .
NEWHAM WATERWORTHi
Edward-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
ASTHMA CURE
ERIIMULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
For Asthmatic people who suffer from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault’s Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
GRIMAULT & Co., Paris. Sold by all clmuiii'ts.


PENS.
Hinks, Wells & Co. beg to draw attention to this new sen eg of
turned up pointed and other pens, made of the same material, by the
same tools by the same process and at the same works, as the well
known series of Waverley Pens, which Hinks, Wells & Co. have for
80 years and upwards (prior to September 1901), manufactured for
and supplied to the proprietors thereof.
%8
ri?
Sold by all
Stationers in 18
varieties in
6d., Is. & gross boxes.
HINKS,
WELLS & CO., Birmingham, England.
Price 6s.
Post Free.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
BY
“Steele Rudd.”
Beanie’s Bronchitis Core.
THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness Pain o
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com
rorhng in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption ha
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient
and a Complete Cure is certain. J
BEWARE OIF* COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OE HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OEE THE' EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
"Mr. Hearne.—
“Dear Sir, —I enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
»f London, England, from which you will glean that
pour medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr to
colds and bronchial asthma. I do not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
and. You can see for yourself what an immense success
it was.—^Yours faithfully, .”
Extract from letter alluded to above:—
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
irrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite ,cured me. Dr. is very
Much interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
*ff the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
Iroin a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
lupplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS* TORTURE.
BELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OE HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“Dergholm, Victoria.
. “ Dear Sir, —I wish to add my testimony to the won-
lerful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered-for nine
nonths, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
! was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
idvice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
rours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
Irst dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
»m a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
nay depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
vonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“ Yours faithfully,
“JAMES ASTBURY."
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
learne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
ectly and rapkHv successful under circumstances which
indoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
he Rev. JORN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
Ifty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
"I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria."
“Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but lam sending for another bottle in case I should want it.—D. M'DONALD, Trinkey, via
Quirindi, N.S.W.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
"My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Broehitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good, it having quickly cured us both.— R.' BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
Victoria."
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me.—(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria." '
‘I have found-your Bronohitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.”
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone. —J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
“My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers
Queen-street, Melbourne.” ’
“ i lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous.—F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria.”
“Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” 0
‘Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
“I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to evervbodv S
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales." - #
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine
but I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of inv brief trial.—JOHN n’
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
“Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good ; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well.—H. HOOD
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.”
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
“Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from vou have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness.—HENßY WUItLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
. “ The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.— CHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch’s
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
0 CIRCLE.
••The Soibntifio Australian Office,
“169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequent!;
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Viotorii
who during the last few years has been repeatedly work
mg for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronohiti
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recam
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ao
countant, Oollins-street, and the effect that it had was s<
marked that he has ever since been continually recom
mending it to others.
“We are glad to add this our testimony to the value o
Hearne’s roost valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has easec
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people evei
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours m ost faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO."
Queensland Testimony.
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS
“69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send us 3(
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose out
cheque to cover amount of order.
“We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quit*
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
‘ THOMASON, CHAT UR & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemist*“
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPEU
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir, —Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in tha
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“ I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“Editor Geelong Advertiser. ’
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesal#
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Fost to any Address when not obtainable Localtv.
DO /V.FTO (£.a,Jio
(LI M I'l'ISD).
Ills*. wa,j-ra-),
ttear SY23KTEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
OF
fine silver.
i
: . ■
MAKERS OF
S. Co, of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AMO
ILL AW AURA”
.. BRAND OF. -
SOFT LEAD.
urohasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD aAd COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SIKEEF
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to P. S. Morsb, Manager, Th Smelting Company of Australia,
REFINERS of SILVER IGAJ EJLLION
of ASSAYS.
Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.
“ Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical Tlecord.
‘“Bsngers Food’
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medical Record.
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
For Infants , Invalids, and the Aged. Delicious, Nutritive, and Digestible .
Bender’s Food is sold by Chemists, &c., Everywhere.
Extracts from Private
Letters.
“ My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult
t > find. My wife sounds
the praise of ‘ Benger’s
Food ’ everywhere.”
“ If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.
Senator Matheson in debate :
Do you want to hear of converts from Protection to
half ' fc 7l!i e 1 Thf : n S° to Westralia, and there, where
half the population were Protectionists when thev
arrived, you will find the whole State is now Preetrade
from one end to the other. rreecraae
It’s a very unconvincing yarn this, seeing that
W.A. exercises to the fullest extent possible its
power to put on a second tariff, in addition to the
Commonwealth one. If W.A. is Freetrade wh?
doesn t it abolish its own private tariff and be at
least as Freetradey as Victoria ? At present it is
the most Protected place in the Federation.
Latest phthisis cure announced is an in-
jection of formaldehyde (a formalin product).
Said that
A solution of 1 in 2000 injected into a vein near the
elbow was found not to interfere with the heart’s action.
Solutions of 1 in 1000 and 1 in 500 have been used with
safety. The solution is reduced by mingling with the
blood to 1 in 100,000 on reaching the right ventricle, and
is then pumped through the lungs, which are impregna-
ted for the space of 25 heart-beats. A solution of 1 in
170,000 of formaldehyde is fatal to the tubercular bacilli.
It is declared that in many cases the tubercle had dis-
appeared ; cavities in the lungs had healed up; the
patient had been so far cured that if examined by another
medical man it would be declared that he never had
consumption at all.


Pleasant to the palate, pleasant in action,
and delightfully exhilarating and refreshing
in its effects —these are the qualities which
have earned wide-spread popularity tor
California
Syrup Tics
“NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.”
Acts Gently but Surely on the
KIDNEYS, LIVER AND BOWELS.
Cleanses the System Effectually,
Dispels Colds, Headaches and Fevers, and
PERMANENTLY OVERCOMES
HABITUAL CONSTIPATION
and all kindred complaints, speedily restoring health,
appetite, energy and good spirits.
Ask for CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS and look for the Name
and Trade Mark of the
CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP COMPANY,
3 i & 32 SNOW MILL, LONDON.
Australian Branch —7 Barrack Street, Sydney,
Of all leading Chemists, ,
l'l /I 11 I IT>-w
HEALTH GIVING,
ENO’S
COOLING, ‘FRUIT
SALT.’
REFRESHING,
AND INVIGORATING.
Ml
111!
Wmimm
IB lj§ - ■II |jj i®®
<’ '
Swsg3E)ji
8
1*
22s
a
in
■
1
CENTURIES
ħ
Tales of the Penance Track.
The Strategist.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I?P:ere Was a lot of gaol homage paid to The Long
Tough, and the “screws” generally left him
alone. He had quite a faculty for making flank
moves when up before the visiting “ beak,” which
moves generally disconcerted the enemy and won
the day. Besides, The Tough never missed a
chance of impressing everybody with hi 3 inno-
cence. ! ' -
His own story was this Me and my pal had
a little cane stick which unscrewed at the top and
bottom, just leaving space enough to plant a
quid. I carried the stick and left it in a bar,
leaving my pal to look after it. He unscrewed
the top one night before a couple of mugs, and
took out a quid, just for a lark. When I come
back I remarked, inneroent like, that I was glad
I didn’t lose ther stick, as it was always worth a
quid ter me, and bless yer hearts, if those two
innercents didn’t up and stake a fiver it wasu t,
my mate chipping in a quid to keep the game up.
I unscrewed the top, no quid ; then I unscrewed
the bottom, and there the quid were. Now, what
der yer think if those two soft shells didn’t go and
give me in charge'as a confidence-man, and I got
two stretch straight.”
The Tough had a record in gaol. He had got five
days for fishing “ weed” from his window with a
bent pin and cotton, his window overlooking No. 2
yard. Then a quarter of a plug was found in a
boiled potato going to him in his mess-kit. Of
course The Tough had had nothing to do with
another man’s generosity. . Some of The Tough’s
more violent admirers said that he sent out a
“stiff ” (a secret letter) behind the glass eye of a.
late chum (Dummy Peters) discharged, the “stiff”
being written on tissue paper; but many doubted
this.
The trouble at present lay between The Tough
and first-class Warder Looney. The Tough being
an agitator, it was decided to work him by him-
self where he could not contaminate others. So
he was put in charge of the Church under the per-
sonal supervision of Warder Looney. , Now
Warder Looney knew The Tough smoked in the
church, but he could not catch him. In the first
place, it was against the regulations for The
Tough to have tobacco; he hadonly served three
months, and 12 months’ servitude was necessary
to qualify for smoking. Secondly, he smoked in
the church —the greater crime of the two. First-
class Warder Looney had The Tough in “D”
wing, where he was stripped and searched five
times. But no good; and 25 times he searched
the church for the plant with no better results.
Warder Looney was nonplussed. He rushed in at
all sorts of unexpected moments, but always
found The Tough busily employed scrubbing and
cleaning, and ever ready to pass an innocent
remark, which never failed to annoy the vanity of
first-class Warder Looney.
• • * •
One day Father Pat O’Donnell could not per-
form Mass, having broken his fast, and prayers were
offered instead. During the proceedings the
priest’s rosary beads slipped through his cassock
pocket on to the floor. In the vestry afterwards
Father Pat investigated the pocket, and found it
burnt through and smelling vilely of stale tobacco.
Next day Warder Looney caught The Tough’s
plant, and that worthy received six days’ cells—
Warder Looney, a strict R.C. himself, opining
that he should have got six months extra for
sacrilege.
The Spider’s Gold Mine.
The Spider, No. 54, andjßajah Riley, No. 86,
were employed in the outside gang, that tilled the
twelve acres adjoining the gaol walls. Here they
produced the gaol supply of vegetables ; at least
the others did, The Spider and The Rajah doing
small jobs, or talking to the third-class warder,
Bill MacManus, who carried a gun all day, and
cursed the whole gaol service day and night.
MacManus was discontented, and The Spider
industriously fanned the discontent, thereby pro-
ducing many small chews of “flat.” The Spider
was a glutton for “ weed ” ; the gaol tobacco had
lost him any small chance of salvation he might
have possessed. There is no surer way of gaining
a man’s affections than by telling him he is wasting
his abilities in a paltry position, so The Spider and
The Rajah did what they pleased.
A small creek found its way through the
garden, and Bill MacManus awoke from a day-
dream of future greatness to. find the pair in-
dustriously washing sand on its edge with two
rusty jam-tins. The energy displayed surprised
him, and he became an interested spectator.
“ I think there’s gold here, Mr. MacManus,” said
one worthy, in an awe-stricken voice. Instantly,
MacManus was interested, and the Spider, not
Wasting any more time in explanation, washed
away vigorously, producing a small nugget, the
size of a pin’s head. MacManus gasped ; words
failed him. If the whole outside gang had at that
moment chosen to make their escape, Warder Bill
MacManus would not have interfered. The
Washing continued. Small specks came alternately
from The Spider and his pal, MacManus sitting
down to watch them, with his rifle on the ground
(this breach of rules carries a fine of seven days’
pay). Presently, it was time for dinner-muster,
and the artful Spider played his game. Holding
the eight small pins’-heads of gold in the palm of
his hand, he started, “ This ’ere ain’t no good to
us blokes, Mr. MacManus; we ain’t goin’ out for
a bit, an’ we can’t hide it with you screws always
romping a man going in and out, so what do
yer say a couple of cakes of ‘flat,’ eh?”
Good! Warder Toohey lent his cake, bought
that morning, and MacManus’s own cake com-
pleted the bargain. The pin’s heads were passed
over, and the Outside Gang went to dinner.
• * * *
The Spider and The Rajah got the Chief Over-
seer to transfer them to the wood-heap gang next
morning. They had a far easier time of it there
than they would have had if they had worked
outside that day. . Pincher Wilson, The Spider’s
mate, employed in the brass shop, smoked, flat
for that week. The Pincher possessed some slight
knowledge of metallurgy.
The Pincher’s “Book.”
Pincher Wilson, No. 47, undergoing a sentence
of two years for “japanning,” known to the
initiated as cash-box or till-snatching, was a
gambler out and out. The Pincher, too, had an
inordinate craving for tobacco, and, as 12 months’
servitude forms the necessary preliminary to a
weekly supply of the.weed, The Pincher had to
find means. Hence the “book.” The latest
betting on the Cup was procured from Jack
Peters, just sentenced, and plunging became the
order of the day. Asa “plant” for the wagers
was necessary, on account of the marauding
tactics of the warders, the large bellows of the
blacksmiths’ shop was considered the safest and
best, and into the improvised bag, plugs, half-
plugs and quarters rattled cheerfully. The pos-
session of a lead-pencil is considered one of the
seven deadly sins in gaol, and as a memo of each
bet was absolutely necessary, The Pincher made
separate entries on. small slips of paper by means
of a piece of pipe-lead, and as soon as it was safe
and convenient, put them into a canister in the
bellows.
The danger of carrying contraband articles in
gaol lies in the fact that you never know when a
“screw” will make a raid on your person. So
The Pincher took as few risks as possible. Bets
came from all quarters. Rajah Riley, having
won a small pool the week before, plunged on
Revenue to the extent of ten plugs (or “ long
tailors ”), The Pincher laying the. odds of ten to
one. The betting list was revised always accord-
ing to reliable information received from new
arrivals or from occasional scraps of paper blown
over the prison walls by the wind, and promptly
secreted. If the scraps contained, as they often
did, a betting list, it showed a nice discrimination
on the part of the wind for which the “lumbered ”
Ikey Mo was truly grateful.
But an opposition cropped up, a regular anti-
betting league in the person of Third-Class Warder
Hennessey, eager for stripes and revenge. Months
previously a half plug of “flat” belonging to
Hennessey mysteriously disappeared while The
Pincher was in close proximity to him. A smart
search of the suspect proved unsuccessful, and as
a warder is not supposed to have tobacco in his
possession inside the walls, Hennessey had no
redress. But he bided his time in patience, and
the moment had arrived. The greatest penetra-
tion his mind could bring to bear had not solved
the mystery of The Pincher being in such great
demand among his fellow unfortunates, but an
overheard betting transaction gave him the cue,
and the rest was plain sailing.
On the night before the Cup The Pincher closed
operations, the book showing the enormous total
of 372£ plugs—Revenue, on account of Riley’s
plunge, being the one horse overlaid. On the
same night, after lock-up, The Pincher’s bag was
raided by Warder Hennessey and Chief-Warder
Fielding, and the whole boodle secured.
The news was passed around quietly next day.
No move was made to secure any of the prisoners,
but everybody believed completely in the occur-
rence till the next morning, when the news fil-
tered in that Revenue had won. Rajah Riley
worked on the wood-heap and the Pincher in the
tinsmiths’ shop, but the news travelled quickly.
The Rajah asserted that the tale of the warders
confiscating the “bag” was a yarn got up by
the Pincher, and that the Pincher had the swag,
and was a low welsher. The Pincher went down
to expostulate, but ’twas no avail. A fight fol-
lowed. In the second round it was stopped, and
the bookmaker and his client locked up,
The Rajah was discharged by the visiting
magistrate. The Pincher, for being away from
work, received seven days’ cells (16oz. of bread,
and water unlimited, per day). After all his time
and trouble, slandered, pillaged, and then —seven
days ! Yet a greedy betting public always says the
Tommy Rooks get the best of it.
An Inquest “Inside.”
No. 212 was dead. A widowed mother had
worn herself to a skeleton tramping the country
with a petition for his release at half-time. He
was only a boy ; it was only a matter of three
pounds odd, and his first time. But the Execu-
tive knew nothing of her struggles, only of his
crime, and it said, “ Let him serve the lot! ”
Then another interfered. Death proved stronger
than the petition, and No. 212 lay in the little
dead-house at the back of “C” wing alone—no
flowers, no watchers, nothing. The door was
even locked on him, as it had been during his
last hard 12 months. And three pounds odd did
it all !
A hush was over the gaol. The “greycoats”
were depressed. They picked the six for the
coroner’s jury. The Prison Act states that a
jury shall consist of six prisoners and six freemen.
So the library was cleared, and at 11 the coroner
and doctor arrived together. The Spider, Rajah
Riley, Pincher Wilson, and three other greycoats
comprised the representatives of the bond, and
compared very favorably with the six freemen,
amongst whom was the gaol wood-carter. They
viewed the body, and then sat. The G-overnor
and Deputy-Governor were accommodated with a
seat at the table; the prisoners sat on one side of
the room ; those who still maintained their places
on the greasy path of virtue on the other. The
coroner opened with a small speech to the
effect that if the boy had died outside the
faol, having medical attendance, no inquest would
ave been necessary, but here ’twas compulsory
by law.
The witnesses were called. The Night-watch
Senior Warder (212 died at 11 p.m.) detailed the
death scene. He had kept him alive while the
brandy lasted, but the brandy gave out, and
Wardsman (a prisoner in Hospital, No. 93) called,
gave evidence how the prisoner had died in his
arms, he being wakened up half an hour previous
by his groaning. (What a blessing the widowed
mother never heard the evidence !)
Then the doctor, a fat, grumpy Scotchman, gave
his evidence: “Best of medical attendance—■
couldn’t be saved—chronic case of heart-disease of
long standing.”
The Spider rose at this juncture with a hard
look, but the Governor happened to look at a
bookcase behind The Spider; this, combined with
a tug from The Rajah, made him sit gently down
again. Then the Coroner charged them, the fore-
man collected the verdict and returned it: “That
James Maitland (the corpse had one advantage
over the live body, it got its name) had died from
natural causes.”
No. 187 told No. 3 yard that the natural cause*
consisted of “chronics” and heart-disease. That
night, after lock-up, the sound of the hearse was
heard going to the dead-house, and the Rajah
climbed to his window to see. The widowed old
mother, 200 miles away, had claimed the body.
* * • «
Next morning, at the wash-basins, “The Long
Tough,” after slowly rubbing his head with the
coarse towel, said : “A man’s mother never turns
dawg ! ” And no one spoke for a few minutes
afterwards.
THE WASP.
“ Writes “ Juried ” :
There is shortly to be thrown open for alleged settle-
ment a big reserve near Temora (N.S.W.), comprising
8700 acres of young pine and ironbark, which, experts
estimate, would yield in 20 years’ time timber valued at
£56,000. The Forestry Department was too tired even to
protest against the revocation of this reserve—though one
feeble little “no” would have preserved this valuable
State asset. Now it will be handed over to a host of
cookies, who will yell for re-appraisement, owing to the
timber on it ! And there are millions of acres of Crown
Lands in N.S.W. locked up for no apparent reason—except
perhaps the fostering of a rabbit-export tradg in the
future.


Do You Get Up
With a Lame Back?
&
¥
&
£
o-
f:
A
A
Kidney Trouble makes you Miserable.
loan’s Backache Kidney pills
ARE THE GREAT REMEDY FOR
KIDNEY, BLADDER, AND URIC ACID TROUBLES.
You are in no danger of being sick if you keep your kidneys
well.
They filter your blood and keep it pure and free from disease-
breeding germs.
Your other organs may need care, but your kidneys most,
because they do most.
If you are sick, begin with your kidneys, because as soon as
they are well they will help all the other organs to health.
The treatment of some diseases may be delayed without
danger ; not so with kidney disease.
The testimony of friends and neighbors cheerfully given by
them, and told here in their own words, is the positive evidence
of merit that backs every box of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.
Read this, a Case in Point.
Mr. Jas. Rees, 6 East-street, Surry Hills, this city, says
“More than twelve months ago I tried Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills to see whether they would cure me of lumbago-like pains in
the back, from which I had been a great sufferer. The nature
of my trade came against me. lam a painter, and am sure that
the painting induced my complaint. Six weeks previous to using
the pills I had been much worse than usual, the pains being very
bad, with a worn-out feeling which caused me to have an inclina-
tion to be sitting down all the time. The first dose of Doan s
Backache Kidney Pills gave me immediate relief, and a course of
the pills cured me. I have never had a pain in my back since,
and as it is so long ago the most sceptical person can t doubt it
to be a thorough cure. For backache this remedy is simply
grand.”
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all Chemists
a i ! storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes, 15s. 3d.), or
will be posted on receipt of price by Foster-McClellan Co.,
76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
BUT BE SURE YOU GET DOAN’S.
ITCHINESS OF THE SKIN.
Ever have any irritation of the skin . There
are many forms of it, any of them bad enough to
tax your patience. Hemorrhoid, a plague of the
• no rest for the sufferer from that com-
plaint’. Eczema, too. Hives don’t sound danger-
ous, but they cause much misery to those
unfortunate enough to be troubled with them.
Doan’s Ointment is “a wonder” for any such
trouble. Any troublesome irritation of the skm
can’t resist its healing, soothing influence. Dots
of Sydney people know this now. $ ,
Mrs. M. A. Carter, Waratali, Orange-st., Hand-
wick this city, writes a most enthusiastic letter
as to’how her young daughter, aged 10 years, was
cured of Eczema by Doan’s Ointment. Mrs.
Carter thought her daughter contracted the
disease at school. It affected her scalp, which
was terribly inflamed and all broken out, and
irritated her terribly. She obtained some of
Doan’s Ointment at Newman’s Pharmacy, King-
street, and, after thoroughly washing the child’s
scalp, applied it. The result was that the scalp
entirely healed in a few days, and left no scar,
much to their joy.
“ I have also used the Ointment myself for
irritation of the skin —a sort of Eczema —and it
has done me equally as much good as it did my
daughter. You are at liberty to publish these facts
at any time, and I will only be too pleased to
verify the statements should I be called upon to
do so.” _
Doan’s Ointment is splendid in all Diseases ot
the Skin, Eczema, Piles, Hives, Insect Bites, Sores,
Chilblains, &c. It is perfectly safe and very
effective. Very frequently two or three foxes
have made a complete cure of chronic cases that
have not yielded to other remedies for years.
Sold at 2s, 9d. per box. you cannot obtain it
locally from your chemist or storekeeper, same
will be posted on receipt of price by' -
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
What Things We Crown!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
What things we crown !
I heard the distant cries of Tartar clan
That thronged around the car of Genghis Khan;
I saw them pile their pyramids of bones
To form the ruthless conquerors’ ghastly thrones ;
I saw his swarthy warriors sweep in flood,
I marked their trail of ruined lands and blood,
I heard their shouts each cry for mercy drown,
—What things we crown !
What things we crown !
Again I heard the cry of shrieking Rome,
When madman Nero fired it, cot and dome;
I saw them tremble at his fatuous rule,
I saw them crouch before the fiddling fool,
I saw them fawn on each Imperial craze,
And kiss the hand that set their homes ablaze,
I saw them bless his smile and dread his frown—
What things we crown !
What things we crown !
’Twas France who crowned a regal imbecile
And rent the sky with joyful peal on peal;
’Twas Russia’s peers, with reeking hands and red,
Laid diadem on Catherine’s guilty head ;
While England greeted loud with loyal lay
The doddering king who cast a world away—
From Tartar boor to clumsy German clown
What things we crown !
What things we crown !
There is but little note on little Earth
Of true desert and truly regal worth ;
Our ears are filled with sounding brass and bray,
Our eyes see naught but tinsel-trappings gay ;
The kingly man we pass, and seek afar
The masquerading rout of prince and Czar —
From blood-drunk chiefs to bloated Caesars down,
What things we crown !
What Things we Crown !
The Calves of Gold, the Vulgar Gods of Clay,
'Hie stupid Kings of padding, gilt and gay,
The pale degenerate wights, so weak and vain
(Their Right Divine—a half-demented brain !)
The princely spawn of ancient crafty knaves,
Whose thrones were built on heads of timid
slaves,—
In ev’ry palace fair, and stately town
What Things we Crown !
Q.
P. LUFTIG.
Grandfather Dan.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There was a vague sort of an illusion abroad to
the effect that Grandfather Dan had once been a
young man. I never for a moment believed any
nonsense of the kind. I had seen a picture of a
small, jaunty, handsome dandy of 25 or so, in the
strange, quaint dress of some fanciful epoch that I
knew perfectly well only existed in books—an
epoch in which impossible men dressed in trousers
extremely tight at the ankles and preposterously
slack at the hips, coats with waists and busts, and
ridiculous high ties that looked like a cure for sore
throat. These men cultivated the most shameful
side whiskers, too, wore their hair long and rolled
under, and always carried thin, tasselled canes,
and leered like satyrs. The picture represented
an indecent object of that mythical age. Grand-
father Dan? People think boys such awful
asses!
Grandfather Dan was very small, and thin, and
old, with silvery white hair, and a long-nosed,
clean-shaven face that had a comical way of
shutting up close like a concertina. He was very
bent, and walked with a stout stick, grunting
forcibly as he shuffled along. Extremely careful
of his dress was Grandfather Dan, but his eyes
were not much good now, and the frock coat he
thought so immaculate and the belltopper he
thought so glossy were both stained and frayed,
and well on in years.
In spite of his decrepitude and his shabby ap-
parel, there was a pathetic jauntiness about
Grandfather Dan ; the ghost of a leer lingered in
the tail of his right eye; he tilted his old bell-
topper slightly to the left, tied his cravat with
elaborate care, and his eyes at their darkest never
lost a certain amative expectancy. He was ever
on the qui vive for possible conquests.
The mythical Grandfather Dan, the youthful
dandy of the portrait, provided much conversa-
tion amongst the female visitors. Endless tales
attached to that picture, the point of which was
always confided in a half-wliisper, and received
with upturned eyes and eloquent, protesting
palms. The impression I gathered was of a dap-
per, handsome devil-of-a-fellow, gay of dress,
careless and happy of manner, caring not one of
Grandfather Dan’s queer old blasphemous oaths
for any man under heaven, sauntering in ridicul-
ous raiment along crowded streets or in public
parks, for ever getting into mischief, for ever
being pursued by angry men, even being shot at,
but never for one moment being of the smallest
possible use in the world.
“He was loved by dozens of women,” said
Aunt Sarah, “and he never deserved the affec-
tions of a cat.”
Sometimes Grandfather Dan came hobbling out
amongst the tattlers, his old head lolling "from
side to side like that of a toy turtle, peering right
and left, chin, nose, and eyes almost running
together in the abnormally contracted face. He
might pass half through the sitting-room before
discovering a strange petticoat, but when he did,
he plucked-up wonderfully, giving characteristic
little tugs and touches to coat and tie and hair,
and chuckling joyously.
“What, ladies? Ladies, ladies!” he cried.
“Gad, if I was only young again ! ”
Then he would dig the nearest woman wickedly
in the ribs with the point of his thumb, and fall
into quite a fit of chuckling and mumbling,
always ending in a bad cough.
Let him once get hold of a plump little hand in
that party, and it was a hard matter to induce
him to let it go again. He would cling to his
prize, caressing it and stuttering antiquated com-
pliments. Grandfather Dan, though he lived to
be 90 odd, never reached years of discretion.
Of course, the veteran’s advances were not
cheerfully received, but he could hear nothing,
and could not see much, and, clinging to the hand
he had captured, he would recite the disreputable
doings of his gay youth, regardless of frowns and
protestations, if powerful Hannah were not caller!
in to carry -him bodily, kicking, squealing, and
swearing, into his own den again.
After Grandfather Dan encountered the austere
and elderly wife of the Methodist minister alone
in the parlor, that eminently respectable lady
never called again.
“ Gad, if I was only young again ! ” chortled
grandfather, and he dug the good lady giddily
with his venal thumb, and, capturing a fat hand,
presently drifted into his raffish reminiscences, the
pious creature backing away the while, and regard-
ing him with the startled expression of a woman
who finds herself in the power of a maniac. She
broke and fled at the second chapter, and the
reputation of the family suffered much as a result
of her wide and frequent recitation of her ex-
periences.
Grandfather Dan was rarely given a chance of
going far with the chronicles of his early amours,
but on one ocasion he spent half-an-hour affection-
ately reciting his confidences to a seamstress’s
dummy that had been borrowed to further some
dressmaking operations, and when he discovered
his error he made frantic but feeble efforts to
throw the thing through the window, breaking
much property in the attempt, and squealing the
while like an excited mandrill.
On one occasion he was discovered, a tiny little
handful of a man, sitting alongside the new
washerwoman, a female of enormous proportions.
The washerwoman sat with her hands placidly
folded before her, and Grandfather Dan was
making his arm go as far as possible around her
great bulk.
“Mrs. Henty!” cried Aunty in shocked dis-
may.
“ Sure, ma’am,” said Mrs. Henty composedly,
“ it do seem to be such a comfort to the poor body,
I haven’t the heart to shift him.”
Hannah shifted him
But Grandfather Dan took to growing old very
quickly—he dwindled every week—he was shrink-
ing visibly. His legs went first; they would
buckle under him when he attempted to take his
usual walk to the street corner and back, and one
of Carton’s big boys would pick him up, and carry
him home bodily. Those were terrible experi-
ences for Grandfather Dan. He was so helpless
in the strong arms, so scared, and so fierce. His
mouth formed a black oval, his eyes stared wildly,
he kicked and clawed like a man falling into an
abyss, piping all the time parrot-like cries of fear,
and swearing at random, and, for long after, he
would sit sobbing and shaking in his chair, grunt-
ing and swearing strange obsolete oaths, or mut-
tering for hours, “ Oh, my ! oh, my ! Damn my
eyes ! Oh, my ! ”
"At length, it became necessary to provide him
with artificial means of locomotion, and Grand-
father Dan was enthroned in a small three-
wheeled affair, propelled by handles that worked
backwards and forwards. Grandfather’s arms
were still strong, but, after he had wheeled him-
self into many difficulties, a nurse-girl was hired to
take care of him, and wheel him about. There was
little left of him to wheel, and the girl was a
strong, deep-chested, strapping damsel of 17, who
handled him like a babe.
Kitty had been in charge a couple of days before
Grandfather Dan awoke to the fact that his cus-
todian was of the delectable sex. Kitty was
leaning over to buckle a strap when the old man
made the discovery.
“ By gad ! a girl,” he piped, “and a real pretty
one, too ! He, he—a damned pretty one 1”
He had Kitty’s hand, and he kissed it, and
a queer, ghost-like resemblance to the jaunty,
leering portrait came back to him.
“ How are you, ray dear ? ” he mumbled. “ Gad,
if I was only young again ! Gad, if I only was !
He, he, he ! ” He chuckled and coughed, and
Kitty moved away, with all the scorn virtue has
for a dotard.
Grandfather followed her up, working the
handles of his wheeled-chair.
“Come here, my dear,” he crooned. “Devil
burn me, but you’re a plum ! Come here, my
little love.”
Kitty had suddenly conceived a dread of the
shrunken man; she moved more quickly, and
Grandfather Dan, still a deuce of a fellow, followed
her up. Kitty ran ; arid, working his handles as
hard as he could, Grandfather wheeled after her,
sprinting like a hero.
Kitty’s screams brought members of the family
to the balcony. Down the central path, hot on
Kitty’s heels, raced Grandfather. Round the big
circular flower bed, possessed with a terror as of
something inhuman, Kitty fled, and nervously
jerking at the levers with all the power left in
him—his toothless mouth working, his eyes bright
with the excitement of the chase—the villain still
pursued her.
Grandfather Dan luffed badly at the far turning
and crashed into a large, glass-covered bed, and
disappeared among the ruins. The old man was
carried in, bleeding from many scratches, and put
to bed, and there he lay for weeks, counting
his life away. Of late he had counted everything
he did, counted his footsteps, the number of times
he stirred his tea, the buttoning of his clothes, the
winding of his clock, the lacing of his boots, and
now he spent his time counting up to ten. We
could hear him at it in the night, piping drearily,
“One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight,
nine, ten —one, two, three ”
On a pleasant afternoon, when the sun was let
into his room, Grandfather Dan discovered the
nurse who had been attending on him. He was
staring brightly, amatively into her face. “Eh,
gad,” he crooned, “a petticoat ! Lord, if I was
only young again ! ” .
He attempted to dig the nurse in the ribs in
his familiar, rakish way, but the effort exhausted
him and he fell back, a little soft white man,
among the soft white sheets, and died; and
on the waxen, dead face, in the coffin, next day, I
found the jaunty smile of the ribald young man of
the portrait.
EDWARD DYSON.
The “ Simplex ” time-table, in use at
Spencer-street (Melb.) railway station is a great
improvement on the usual mystery of a thing that
is plastered in great blanket sheets all over the
premises. The “ Simplex ”is an upright, com-
pact, gaudy-looking machine with a glass face.
It has its innards chockful of time-tables, each
with a big black number on it. If there are, say,
50 railways in a State, the time-tables are num-
bered from 1 to 50 ; then there is an alphabetical
index of all the stations in the State, worn on
Simplex’s stomach, and numbered to correspond
with the time-tables. So, if you want to know
when the train starts for Happy Land or Mud
Hole, you just note its number on the index, say,
37 ; then give the handle a turn, and churn up
the intestines of “ Simplex ” till a big black 37
looks out of its face at you—and there is your
time-table. As well as being a boon to travellers,
it has become a great favorite with the small
boys for miles round. They all want to know
what time the train starts for somewhere, several
times a day, and poor “Simplex” is getting no
rest.


TOOTH & GO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
«X*o IDISSIiaT'Y COM:£*£3TIXIO]Sr.
WINES m Bed B Z ds onlv SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
The Bulletin Reciter:
By Eighty (80) Bulletin Bards. With Illustrations by
“ Hop,” Sfv Lindsay, A. J. Eischer, E. Leist, D. H.
Souter, and H. McCrae. In handsome cloth, decorated.
Price, 55.; postage, Id.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPP S ’ S
t ' ■
GRATEFUL —COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST—SUPPER.
THE ONLY WRY
TO BE CURED of Weakening’and Debilitating Diseases
is to obtain the PROPER REMEDIES. We l\ave the
REMEDY that will CURE YOU. So CONFIDENT are
we of this, that we will send a trial course FREE OF
CHARGE and abide by the result; Send vour symptoms
and prove our statement. Address— Botanic Institute)
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
the UNIVERSAL REMEDY eob
27
YEARS’ SUCCESS
AS
Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza, Whooping-
Cough, Hoarseness, &c.
HAS MADE
Ovrbridge
w fimnTnvifp
AN ABSOLUTE NECESSITY TO EVERY BODY.
Important Notice:
SUBSTITUTION. — There are so many imitations
of this successful, and therefore popular, remedy that
it is of the utmost importance you should use the
word “ OWBRIDGE ’' when buying Lung Tonic,
and TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, M.P.S, Chemist, Hull.
Sold everywhere in bottles, at Is. lid.
2s. 9d., 4s 6 d., & lls-, by all
Colonial Medicine Vendors.
COPYRIGHT.
m
IRISH MOSS
, -The besf reraedy-
FOr< INFLUENZA,
COUGHS,
\sk far Bennington's
md see that vou ge tit.
COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA.
#
A
in
w>
frj?
/•e.
* >
-
■'rf-Vii',
Cl *
m
6\ V
; *
/ s '*> Writes* ' .'. ii X sSsS /A
h
m
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regrain Health?
The Langston Regenerator
WILL. CURE
YOU
Its effects are almost instantaneous and the good results go
on increasing from day to day.
Health, Vigor, Strength
for all who
desire it.
OLD SURGEON LANGSTON,
Member Royal College of Surgeons, England, permanently located in
Melbourne since 1886, originator'of the Regenerator treatment, has so
perfected his method that it has revolutionised the art of Healihg,
and it can almost be said there are no Hopeless or incurable
cases.
Do you feel nervous, fretful, timid and lack the power of will and
action ? Are you subject to loss of memory, broken sleep, feel listless,
moping, and subject to fits of melancholy ? Are your kidneys, stomach, urinary organs, liver or blood in a
disordered condition ? Do you feel weak, nervous and generally debilitated ? If so, do not fail to have the
Doctor diagnose your case. Send at once for full information and question blanks.
Seek, -tiie Truth, it costs dXTothing!
All communications are considered sacredly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON. M.R.C.S., Eng., c o r. Russel! & Collins Sts., Melbourne
Are
You a Sufferer
from bad health in
any of its many forms?
THE WORLD’S BEST.
C. L. HAUTHAWAY & SONS’
ĥ
is an oil dressing which so softens the leather that
smaller sized shoes can be worn with perfect comfort.
“ Peerless Gloss ” is the great dressing triumph of the
world, as it imparts a brilliant and permanent polish to
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S
shoes that outrivals all other dressings, and yet it does not
contain anything injurious to the leather. Beware of
imitations. Demand Hauthaway’s “Peerless Gloss,” and
take no substitute. For sale nearly everywhere. Made
only by C. 1,. Hauthaway & Sons, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.


WATERPROOF COATS
RUBBER BOOTS
» GOLOSHES
PERDRIAU and COMPANY,
(between Bond & Hunter Streets) OGGfg'S StTGGtj SydUGy
ON BROTHERS
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
mm
21 Ms
32 & 34 Clarence Street? SYDNEY.
Worthington Praps
For all Services kept in Stock.
Send for Catalogue.
YEARS DYEIHG
FOK. THE LADIES.
W_ c. ELDKI3DGE & CO
DYERS & GLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
60
REPRESENTED
IN
h
ĥ
1
r^SSs.
:wVp
gwnPTJ5e
ħ
o
SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE.
PERTH
and
COOLGARDIE.
STOCKS CARRIED
S. FREEMAN # SONS L!«JJE£
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
RPEOIA 1/riKS:
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEADOFFICE: WTNTAEB SQUARE, SYDNEY.
1
Universal Remedy for Acidity ®t tne
ch, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Eructations, Bilious Aftwrtao®*.
-V
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
u
LV "a t” "»tM j"cH m a J?Ta Iran
mM&vm
i'.v
•jfck.
•jy
KNOWLES
r '
Best Value. Highest Efficiency.
A Large Stock of Pumps suitable for every
kind of service ready for immediate delivery.
Clarence-St., oyuney, and
533 Coliins-st.,
&SISII
h
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
mHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
A Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. Oitj,
J-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
H. P. Wiffl 8 CO.
Machinery Merchants,
Melbourne & Sydney.
HAVE IN STOCK-
Blake's Steam Pumps.
Fays Woodworking Machinery.
Mundy’s Hoisting Engines-
Empire Co.’s' Laundry Machinery-
American “All Steel" Pulleys-
Harris ‘‘Ohamnion" Lubricating-Oils.
Mason Reducing Yalves-
Ludlow Sluice Yalves-
Korting's Injectors and Ejectors-
Tanite Emery Wheels.
The Plica [ubricant (Jo., South Shields, £ng.
Lubricants and Packings for all purposes. Patent Mica Grease saves 00% in cost, of lubricirijmtjjtnriJtcojrs
bearing's perfectly cool. Patent Mica Packings last twice as long as ordinary, and are 25% ligbteiv_Theydo_
not score the rods, but put a mica surface on them, similar in appearance to electro-plate.
Sole Agent for Australasia : R. A. HERV £Y . Pep6t, 171 Clarence-st., Sydney, N.S. W
Pulsometer Engineering Go.,
EKTGLAJSTD,
Manufacturers of Pumps for all Purposes
;v;i :
The Patent Pulsometer Steam Pump is particularly
suitable for Contractors. Very strong, easily
operated, can be slung anywhere.
STOCKS KEPT. WHITE FOli CATALOGUES.
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd
71 CIAMNOE STREET, SYDNEY.
ST.,
MELBOURNE,
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. ldh3.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest ' and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Bali
Catered for
on Moat
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
; JiAPpy
’ >C ‘"4 C ' s^
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kiltia Railway Station and Gab] (3 Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
