

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY. IRROY’S CHAMPAGNE.
... ... »♦-.—-A A—-A. 4A_4h>—-V.-A—A .♦»—*•> A.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet .
-v
%
4
;>
ss*
%
0
m
o
1.
)
m
v<
IN
3,
%
y
/
%
/
K
’“^7
<T*
ffi
%
A
A
'/\
97/
//,.
OLD
OLD Sp
%S£L
cv
CL
H
i s^v
L
j'--^
■be BnsAni
The D.C.L Whisky
combines perfection of
quality with absolute
in every market of the
world. # # # # #
CHRISTMAS
NUMBER
OF THE
BULLETIN
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission as a Newspaper.
Yoi. 23.—N0. 1191.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 13, 1902.
Price 6d.


THU LATEST BOOKS AT
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd,
Furness, Borneo. Head Hunters, 42s (id, postage 2s Cd.
Iredell (Dr. OiL-M.), Sojiiething ■, 2s, p. 3d.
Churchill(W.&), The River War (ch'. edt.), 12s Gd, p. Is2d.
Junor, Richard Brice : Adventurer, 2s Gd & 3s Gd, p. Cd.
Sherlock, Youir Uncle Hew, 2s Gd & 3s Cd, p. Gd.
MacMahon, Such as Have Erred, 2s Gd & 3s Gd p. Cd.
Harrison,Trincess-of Hills, &s Cd & 3s Gd, p. Gd.
Twentieth Century Atlas, 2Ds, .postage 2s.
Cunmfehain, Gospel of Work, 2s 6d, p. -Id.
Hobson, Imperialism, 12s (id, p. Is 3d.
Wilson (Augusta), A Speckled Bird, 2s 6d & 3s Cd, p. Od
Besant (Sir Walter) No Other Way, 2s Cd & 3s Cd, p. Cd.
Baring-Gould, Quillet, 2s Cd & 3s Cd, p. Cd.
Jepson, The Sentimental Warrior, 2s Cd &3s 6d, p. 6d.
7 CASTLEREAGH~ST m SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) &at Melbourne. Adelaide, Brisbane & London
The Bulletin Publications.
Forwarded to any address in return for postal
notes, stamps, or P. 0.0. for prices stated.
Send Id. stamp for The Bulletin Book Circular,
No. V.
Pair Girls and Gray Horses, wi v h Other
Verses:
By Will H. Ogilvie. New Issue. Blue
cloth, blue edges, with portrait; price, 55. ;
postage, sd. * # * A charming presentation
volume.
The Ways of Many Waters:
By E. J. Bkady. Buckram, gilt top ; price,
55.; postage, 3d. * # * Australia’s best book
of sea and sailor verse.
Maorilaud and Other Verses:
By Arthur H. Adams. Buckram, gilt
top ; price, 55. ; postage, 3d. *** The best
book of Maoriland verse yet published.
On Our Selection:
By A. H. Davis (“Steele Rudd”). New
Issue. With about eighty illustrations by
Mahony, Lambert, Vincent, Leist, Fisher
ami Fullwood; 65. ; postage, Bd. * + * “The
jolliest book yet printed in Australia.”
A Hose of Regret:
Verses by James JTkbblethwaitk ; being
No. II of The Bulletin Booklets.
Enveloped, Is. 6d. ; postage, Id.
The Circling 1 Hearths:
By Rodekic Quinn. No. 11l of The
Bulletin Booklets. Enveloped, Is. 6d.;
postage. Id.
Dreams in Flower:
By Louise Mack. No. IV of The Bulle-
tin Booklets. Enveloped, 2s. 6d. ;
postage, 2d.
The Last of Six:
Tales of the A ustral Tropics. By Ebnkst
FavEno. Paper covers, 141 pp.; price, 6d. ;
postage, 2d.
Castro’s Last Eacrament and Other
Stories:
By Albert Dokrington (“ Alba Dorion”).
A handsome volume of 350 pages, bound in
cloth, decorated ; price 4s. 6d. ; postage, 7d.
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300
pages; price, 4s. 6d.; postage, 6d.
The Bulletin Reciter:
By Eighty Bulletin Bards. With illus-
trations by “Hop,” N. Lindsay, A. J.
Fischer, F. Leist, D. H. Souter, and H.
McCrae. In handsome cloth, decorated ;
pi-ice, ss. ; postage, 4d.
A Policy for the Commonwealth:
A Handy Manual of Politics. By James
Edmond. Price, ,6d. ; post free from The
Bulletin Office, 7d.
At Dawn and Dusk:
By Victor J. Daley. Handsomely bound ;
makes a line presentation volume to friends
abroad. Post free from The Bulletin
Office, ss. -Id.
Works by Francis Adams:
(Publishers’ Remainders, offered as Second-Hand.)
Poetical W okks, complete edition, printed
in Brisbane by Muir & Morcorn. Paper
covers; 4to. Only a few copies remain.
Price, ss. ; postage, 4d.
Australian Essays, printed in Melbourne
by Wm. Inglis & Go. Paper covers, Bvo.
Only a few copies remain. Price, 2s. 6d. ;
postage, 3d.
Songs op the Army of the Night, printed
in Sydney. Boards, Bvo. Only a feio copies
remain. Price, 2s. 6d.; postage, 3d.
THE BULLETIN BOOKS.
Sole Distributing Agents :
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
Special Wholesale Agents :
New South Wale* .. Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd.
Queensland .. .. Edwards, 'Dunlop & Co., Ltd
V ictoria George Robertson Proprietary.
Tasmania George Robertson Proprietary.
South Australia .. E. S. Wigg & Son.
Westralia .. .. E. S. Wigg & Son.
Auckland and district Wildjian, Lyell, & Arey.
Others to be appointed.
Sold by All Leading Booksellers.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
214 George-st., Sydney, Australia.
Bushman and Buccaneer.
The racy Australian verses of “The Breaker,”
(Lieut. Moran t.) with memoir by “Frank Renar.”
PRICE, ONE SHILLING. Post Free from Bulletin
office, Is. id.
Wholesale from Edwards, Dunlop and Co., Sydney.
’s Eumenthol Jujubes
For
COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS of the
THROAT and
LUNGS.
(REGISTERED).
IN TINS, Is. 6d.
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA aiid
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable for Singers
and Public Speakers.
SOLI) BY ALL CHEMISTS, OR POST FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR,
Cr. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q.
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE ; and FELTON, GRIM WADE & CO., MELBOURNE, AGENTS.
Thoy ease.a Tire:! Throat, and are helpfu! In Indigestion and Dyspepsia.
THE RED PAGE.
Compensation.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Tis night, the sea doth moan and sigh,
Its yearning bosom heaves in vain,
With swelling billows, which would fain
Reach to the gleaming moon on high.
To reach unto yon starry height,
Its billows vainly strive and heave.
Sad Ocean, dost thou not perceive
Her reflex in thy bosom bright ?
Love, which afar thee lures in vain,
Reflected lies within thy heart;
Then heed not if its counterpart
Thou mayhap never shall attain.
TAS.
B. E. K.
Australian Character,
SOME ODD NOTES.
speculate as to the future of a youug
I nation is as fascinating as to seek to fore-
JL east the manhood of a child whose infancy
attracts interest; and by no means as un-
certain. When studying the individual, the vast
unknown complexities of human nature loom in
the background and cast vague shadows over all
the steps of the argument from the tangible and
the known to the logically probable conclusions
of the future. Given a child possessing certain
dispositions, set in a definite path of study and
development, sure to be nurtured, mentally and
physically, after an ascertained fashion; and
it should be easy to predict with a fair
degree of certainty its adultage. But it is
not. “As the twig is bent so will the
tree grow ” is true of trees, but not always of
men. The son of the miser is occasionally a
sjpendthrift; of the Puritan a man whose joy in
living reaches to almost maniacal excess ; and
the women whose boldly-displayed charms
grace the stage of certain theatres or who
lend an illicit glamor to the lives of men,
very frequently profess either to be daughters of
clergymen or nurslings of convents—not always
because they are so, but because that is a natural
story to tell, and is readily accepted as true.
But, though logical conclusions from known facts
are frequently liable to be falsified where indivi-
duals are concerned, when a mass of men comes
to be considered far more certainty is
possible ; in the aggregate the unknown forces
whieh are classed together as “the mysteries of
Human Nature,” act so as to arrive at a mean.
Studying a people (i.e., men in the aggregate),
given a knowledge of its ancestry, food, present,
customs, and of the nature of the land whieh it
inhabits, a forecast of its future character, can be
made with some accuracy.
Jt
Australian national character offers a particu-
larly fascinating subject for speculation. A con-
tinent has been peopled by a new race—the old
race bei*g too feeble to even remain to
affect in the slightest degree the newcomers—
has been, given suddenly the political and social
advantages (and disadvantages) of civilisation ;
has started, from the outset practically, in the
business of nation-making with the experience
and the equipment which other peoples had to
struggle centuries to acquire. It is not strange
therefore that, even in his far-back days, Marcus
Clarke should have-got to work to imagine the
future Australian character, which he forecasted
as likely to be a gloomy mixture of dyspepsia and
Calvinism.
«*
But obviously®Marcus Clarke was too early in
the field. In his time Australians were developing
some characteristics perhaps, but not a character.
Not before the closeof thel9th century can a settled
development of Australian national character be
said to have begun. Before then, there were ten-
dencies more or less marked towards a national
individuality, and certain characteristics were
being grafted on to the various race stocks making
up the Australian citizenry, but there could not be
any moulding of a people, for the nature of the
population was still liable to radical change from a
large influx of immigrants. No country which is
receiving great additions to its population from
alien souroes can settle down to the forma-
tion of a,' eaaractcr. That process can only
begin when'the radial constituents of a territory
have become fixed* in their proportions and the
population* is mot liable to any additions, the
absorption of* which would have a material
effect on its development. With the 20th
century Australia adopted legislation practi-
cally excluding all colored aliens; at the
same time a. general drought, the stoppage of
money supplies’ from abi’oad as the product of
loans (by that time money borrowed went almost
entirely in payment of interest on old liabilities);
and the kick of any attraction in the shape of
easily exploited mineral fields, made white immi-
gration cease almost entirely. Then the con-
summation of Federation, (making all Aus-
tralians one tin political and social aims) gave
an opportune stimulus to the formation of a
national character. Political unity will never
in itself create national unity. The Irish character
is as distinct/from the English to-day as 100 years
ago. But where there are no serious obstacles, the
one will greatly promote the other. All Australians
are very much/ of the same blood. The continent is
definitely protected by its immigration laws from
the mixture of colored races ; it is prevented by
circumstances from adding largely to its popu-
lation from any outside sources; it is provided
with a nationalgovernment, the tendency of which
must be to undermine, on the one hand, the traits
of State provincialism, and on the other I rand, the
tendency to look abroad for scope for talent and
ambition, and to promote, as far as political
circumstances can promote, the growth of a self-
contained people. With a populatioai, the con-
stituting elements of which are likely for the
future to maintain stable proportions, and a
national government, Australia in 1902 is in the
best of positions to develop “a character.”
&
The development of national character depends
primarily (1) on food* supply ; (2) on the natural
aspect of the country. In the case of a land which
is colonised—the population of which is not indi-
genous, but has come from another country—a
third factor obtrudes, the nature of the colonising
stock. Subsidiary to the influence of food and of
scenery are other factors, such as religion, litera-
ture, scope of employment, moral ideas, but these,
on examination, will be found to be effects rather
than causes, mere results of the nature of the food
supply and the features and climate of the country.
Still, when once developed to any degree, they
are able to have a distinct influence of their own.
A country whose food supply is provided abun-
dantly and with little trouble on the part
of_ man, and whose natural phenomena (moun-
tains, rivers, storms, etc.) are grand and terrifying,
is likely to develop its religion on the lines of
ignorance—arising from sloth—and superstition—
arising from fear of the mysterious manifestations
oi Nature; and that religion, as it grows in strength,
will have an independent effect of its own in
deepening ignorance and increasing superstition,
thus aiding the influence from which it sprang
itself. A tendency has a constantly cumulative
force. But a religion never moulds of itself a
national character; it is itself a consequence of the
national character, which, in its turn, is primarily
derived from the nature of the national food
supply. All religion is ultimately derivable from
the stomach.
Jt
The effect of the nature of its food supply on
the national character of a people has long been
accepted as of the first importance. “ Industry is
impossible where the banana grows,” said Hum-
boldt. Abraham Lincoln was convinced that the
Chilian people were indeed likely to be the leading
element in South America when he learned
that “ they grew apples down there.” Buckle,
developing the same truth more thoroughly,
shows that where food is abundant and easily pro-
duced, exotic civilisations of a sort—those of
Egypt and India, for examples—follow, but that
a true, democratic, stable civilisation is impossible.
“ There is no instance in which an abundance of
food lias not caused an unequal distribution, first
of wealth and then of political power.” The
ascertained facts as regards the influence of food
supply on national character are these :
An abundance of food supplied by Nature, without
effort on the part of man, makes the growth, and even
the maintenance, of civilisation impossible. There must
be an incentive to intelligent effort, or the intelligent
effort will neither be evolved nor be continued.
So rigorous a climate as to absolutely prevent tillage or
accumulation of food supplies is equally effectual in
smothering civilisation ; there must be a fair certainty of
reward as well as a reasonable incentive to intelligent
effort.
The temperate climate is the best for the growth of
civilisation, and also for the growth of democratic
political institutions. The people, neither enervated
nor hopelessly discouraged, have all their faculties called
upon and moderately rewarded; the result is an in-
tellectual growth which leads to liberal civilisation.
&
How uniquely favorable are the food conditions
of Australia to the development of an indepen-
dent and resourceful national character !
There is not even the bondage of a typical
national food to be overcome—a marked
abundance of potatoes, or maize, or wheat
or flesh-food, which would lead to its
adoption as a general diet. (The nature of
diet —independently of its abundance —lias a
good deal to do with the evolution of cha-
racter ; the Irishman is emotional, imaginative,
and unstable, partly because of potatoes; the
Englishman stolid and inclined to be sullen, partly
because of his bacon, beef, and beer; the French-
man sanguine, persistent, acute, partly because
of his .wine and his well - divided meat - and -
vegetable food.) Australia is in the position
of being necessarily eclectic in her food tastes.
There is no great, food-staple specially suited to
the climate and soil, and so, in a measure, forcing
itself on the people. The Australian may not
now eat what is best suited to him ; he may never
do so; but he has the choice ; there is no tyranny
of circumstances to force him to any one
food. His country supplies them all with
impartial frugality. A food supply, neither so
abundant as to beget laziness, nor so meagre as
to breed thriftlessness, and so varied as to almost
make it impossible that a few articles should
ever become stereotyped as the staples of the mass
of the people, indicates for the future Australian
that he will follow, with some modification, the
French—the most civilised eaters on earth—in his
dietary; and that he will have every assistance
which a food supply can give to the development
of a national character, sturdy, self-reliant, and
jealously free. It is of importance, even, that in
Australia it is never likely that different classes
will have widely different diets. Fish, fruit, flesh,
fowl, farinaceous foods are, speaking generally,
possible to the working class as well as to the
droning class. In no other country of the world
has the refrain of the well-known bugle-call less
application :
Officers’ wives
Have puddens and pies ;
Soldiers’ wives
Have skilly.
And of great importance is that fact in encoura-
ging a democratic type of character. There is not
even in Australia the class distinction of oysters
and periwinkles; almost everybody can have
oysters.
J*
The natural aspect of Australia is, on the
whole, not awe-inspiring. There is a marked
absence of vast mountains and great rivers. On
the other hand, the country has not the flat, fat
character which suggests stolidity and stupidity.
In this, as in many other things, the continent
seems to have struck a happy mean. The hills are
high enough to be picturesque, not so high as to
overawe. All tire forces of nature are moderate,
and their capriciousness is an incentive to a
higher form of energy rather than to superstition.
A people which must artificially irrigate a large
part of its country is forced.(if there are no coun-
tervailing circumstances) to a continuous and an
intelligent energy. The Australian continent lias,
on the whole, a temperate climate, inclining more
towards extreme heat than extreme cold. In few
places is a houseless life, or a life with but a very
flimsy house, markedly uncomfortable ; in many
districts the weather suggests it. This will be a
temptation to laziness; it will also serve as a
discouragement to any attempt to en-citadel class
privileges (landlordism, which is the father of all
the Devils of Caste, is not encouraged by the Aus-
tralian climate). The natural aspect and climatic
conditionof Australiapointtoadeinocratic national
charaoter, lacking in superstition, impatient of
control; and, in different ways, encouraging
industry and laziness (the. drought conditions
urging persevering application, the fine-weather
conditions allowing elaborate houses to be dis-
pensed with, and suggesting sloth).
Jt
The religious character of Australia will cer-
tainly not be gloomily Presbyterianistic, as
prophesied by Marcus Clarke. An educated
people, irrigating largely, must necessarily be, in a
degree, sceptical, for irrigation is essentially a
negation of the idea of an interfering Providence
and a declaration of the inefficacy of prayer.
Nobody could long continue to believe in artesian
wells and Predestination ; in Australia Predesti-
nation will go, has in fact almost gone. The
bright climate—suggesting that a rest-day should
be kept holy by a picnic; the general heat—making
crowded churches often unpleasant; the absence
of any natural incentives to super-naturalism ; the
growing irreligious habit pf irrigation ; all tend to
dulltlie weapons and confuse the creeds of theexotic
churches established in Australia. This tendency
can be already observed. The Roman Catholic in
Australia objects to be priest-ridden; the Cal-
vinist takes to the Higher Criticism; the Anglican
church grows in popularity because it makes the
least demands of belief or ceremonial; and only a
small fraction of the people go to church. The
absence of any very marked religious feeling will
assist other factors in giving a touch of cynicism
and of flippancy to the Australian character, and
will also help to make it impossible that an aris-
tocratic caste should ever be established on the
continent. No aristocracy can exist without the
aid of a religion.
&
As regards morals—using the word in the sense
of as strict a regard as possible for the monogamic
and monoandric ideal the outlook for the
Australian character is not bright. There is a
tendency already to a somewhat tolerant view of
licentiousness, and, yet more disquieting, an
appearance of childlessness and other symptoms of
moral decadence. These tendencies, one of which
is in a measure the result of the other, will bo
undoubtedly encouraged by the nature of the food
supply, the natural features and climate of the
country, and the absence of strong religious senti-
ment. There are not the climatic influences at
work "on Australians as on Byron’s Russians —
Perhaps the season’s chill, and their long station
In winter’s depth, or want of rest and victual
Had made them chaste.
The eclectic and fairly bountiful nature of the
food supply of Australia (Cupid not being starved
on potatoes), the warm amorous climate, the
open-air life—all tend to licentiousness; and no
invocation of any supernatural Power is likely to
affect the issue. There is strong reason to hope,
however, that the women, politically enfranchised
and reaching in time (no doubt), industrially and
intellectually, a very higli plane, will interfere to
correct any tendency to a moral decadence. When
women are encouraged by political freedom to
educate themselves, are enabled, by the same
means, to secure economic freedom, their sense of
dignity and responsibility imposes on the com-
munity, of which they form a part, a high moral
standard. In the United States of America
this has been so: it is very rarely that an
American woman becomes “abandoned,” and the
American illegitimate rate is very low. It is
reasonable to look for the same development in
Australia, and to hope that, even if the conven-
tions of marital custom are to an extent disre-
garded, the essentials of race-purity will be pre-
served.
&
The nature of employment of Australians has
in the past, and will probably in the future, tend
to independence and self-reliance. There has
always been a large class in Australia members of
which gloried in “having no boss”—prospectors,
alluvial miners, bush-workers of many kinds.
These have formed the sturdy backbone of her
democracy, and have made an ineffaceable im-
pression on her national character. In addition,
the very great- diversity of national em-
ployment, the absence for a long period
of "huge enterprises absorbing thousands of
“hands,” must tend to prevent the growth
of servility, or of that unthinking Conser-
vatism which comes to men employed as the
blind parts of some great industrial machine.
The nature of the race-stock from which Aus-
tralians hawe sprung. provides the third main in-
fluence likely to affect their national character.
This influence must be altogether favorable.
Excepting for the very small criminal taint of the
early convict days, the original white Australian
population has been drawn from the best Euro-
pean sources—the most adventurous and the most
hardy being tempted by a natural process of
selection to the country where the goldfields and
free land held out hope of escaping from the
thraldom of modern industrialism.
Such are a few of the points, lightly touched
upon rather than seriously discussed, which will
probably occur to the scientific student of Aus-
tralian character, and which, in my opinion, will
lead him to conclude that the future Australian
will he irreverent in his social relations (despising
rank and caste); radical in his politics, with pro-
bably a tendency to individualism rather than
to socialism (present .common satire, of civil
servants helps to indicate that); latifudinarian in
his religion ; cynical rather than sentimental;
pleasure-loving, but moderately industrious ;
scientific rather than imaginative ; withal, some-
what ardent and impulsive. Probably a study of
the facts available will lead the student to think
further that the dangers which most nearly
threaten the happiness of Australia are the
development in the national character of
blood-thirstiness and lasciviousness. The Aus-
tralian of the future will certainly not be a
“saint.” Perhaps, in avoiding that pitfall, he
will move too far in the opposite direction, towards
becoming what is best expressed in one of his own
idioms, “an attractive Devil.”
F.R.


MICK SIMMONS FOR TIP-TOP VALUE.
Fishing Tackle.
THE LATEST PATTERNS IN BARTLEET’S,
ALLCOCK’S, CARTER’S FISHING RODS.
Best Split Cane, 12ft 3 joints, 72s 6d, 60s, 40s, 355, 18s,
16s 6d, 12s 6d, 11s 6d each.
Best Greenheart, Bft 2 joints, Sea Rod, 2 tops, Bs, 20s each.
Best Greenheart, 12ft 3 joints, Latest Fittings, Bs, 13s,
15s, 17s 6d, 235, 265, 50s each.
Best Greenheart, 13ft, 3 joints, Best Finish, 12s 9d, 26s ea.
Best Greenheart, 14ft, 3 joints, Best Finish, 21s, 23s 6d ea.
Best Greenheart, 6 to Bft, 4 joints, Boat Rods, 7s 6d,
10s 6d, 12s 9d, 16s 9d each.
Best Hickory, 10ft, 3 joints 5s 9d, 4 joints 6s 9d each.
Best Hickory, 12ft,4 joints 4s 6d, 7s 3d, 12s 6d, 14s 6d each.
Best Hickory, 14ft, 3 joints 27s 6d, lift 6s 6d, Bft 5s each.
Best Cane, 12ft 3 joints, 5s 6d, 11s 6d, 18s 6d each.
Best Cane, 12ft 4 joints, 2s, 4s 6d, 6s3d, 7s 9d, 20s 2256 d ea.
Best Cane, 14ft 4 joints, 8s 9d, 15s 9d each.
Best Cane, 16ft 4 joints, 9s 6d, 19s, 30s each.
Best Ash, 12ft 4 joints, 2s, 4s ; 3 joints, 4s 9d, 2s 6d each.
Best Ash, 9ft 3 joints, 3s 6d ; Bft, 4s 9d ; 101 ft, 4s 9d each.
Best Lancewood, 10ft 3 joints, Bs, 9s 6d ; 12ft, Bs, 9s 6d,
12s 9d each.
Best Steel Telescopic Rods, Strong, 10ft, 245, 275, 30s,
32s 6d each.
Best variety in Fishing Reels. Brass, Wood, Gunmetal,
Nickel, Aluminium, Vulcanite, Ebonite, &c ; Prices
9d to 30s each.
Bartleet’s Best Silk Lines in coils.—soyds, Stout, Is 3d ;
Fine, 9d ; 100yds., No. 12, 2s ; No. 8,2 s 6d each.
100yds. Cable Laid Green, No. 8,4 s each.
Bartleet’s Best Plaited Silk Lines (The Archer) —30yds.,
Fine, 2s 9d ; Medium, 3s 3d ; Stout, 4s 6d each.
Bartleet’s Green Twisted Silk Lines. —50yds., Fine Is 4d>
Medium Is 6d each.
Bartleet's White.—soyds., Fine Is 3d, Medium Is 6d each.
Bartleet’s Waterproof Braided Plaited Silk in Boxes.—
50yds., Tan, No. 18, 6s ; No. 19, 6s 9d ; Green, 6s 6d
each. 50yds., Green, No. 20, 7s ; No. 22, 8s 6d each.
Allcook’s Waterproof Braided Silk Plaited Lines.—lo 9.
best quality, 120 yds., Nos. I, 10s; H, 12s; G, 14s;
F, 15s 9d ; E, 19s ; D, 22s each. 100yds., H, 10s ;
G, 12s ; F, 14s ; E, 15s 9d ; D, 17s 9d each
Rod and Reels Built to Order on shortest notice. All
kinds of Rod Fittings kept in stock.
Our Special Sure- Catch Fitted Lines on Cork. —25yds
Bream and Whiting 6d, 50yds. 9d each ; 50yds. Bream
and Flathead Is, 100yds. Is 9d, 2s each.
English Waterproof Flax-Speckled Lines on Cork.—soyds.
Bream 9d, 50yds. Flathead Is each ; 100yds. Bream Is
6d, 100yds. Flathead 2s each.
Best Quality Pure Silk Lines on Pork.—2syds. Stout 9d,
50yds. Is 6d, 100yds. 3s each ; 50yds. Fine Is 6d, 80yds.
Is Bd, 80yds. Stout Is 9d each ; 100yds. Stout 2s,
100yds. Extra Stout 2s 6d each.
Our Champion Green Flax Line on Cork.—32oyds. Is
269yds. Is, 200yds. Stout Is 3d each.
Best Schnapper Lines Manufactured—
9-Cord, 100yds Is 2d ; 150yds Is 7d, Is 9d ; 200.vds 2s each.
12-Cord, lOO.vds Is 6d ; 150vds 2s 2d ; 200yds 2s lid each.
15-Cord, 100yds Is 6d ; 150yds 2s 2d ; 200yds 2s lid each.
iB-Cord, 100yds Is 6d ; 150yds 2s 2d ; 200yds 3s 3d each.
27-Cord, 100yds Is 9d ; 150yds 2s 6d ; 200yds 3s 3d each.
36-Cord, lOOyds 2s 6d ; 150yds 3s 6d ; 200yds 4s 6d each.
These Lines may be had on Cork or in Coils.
Preserved Prawns in Air-tight Quart Jars, Is 9d per
quart.
Send for Price List of Fishing Tackle.
SILVER PLATE DEPARTMENT.
4- Revolving Cruet, 6s lid.
5- Revolving Cruet, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d.
Breakfast Cruet, 3s 6d, 3s lid, 5s 3d.
Dinner Cruets, ss, 7s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 21s.
Butter Dishes, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s to 20s.
Jelly Dishes, 3s, ss, 6s, 7s 6d to 21s.
Set Carvers, 12s 6d to 255.
Tea Sets, 3-piece, 16s 6d, 17s 6d, 21s.
Tea Sets, 4 „ 17s 6d, 355.
Coffee Sets, 30s 6d.
Cake Stands, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d.
Pickle Jars, 6s 6d, 8s 6d.
Tea Pots, 12s 6d, 255.
Cheese Stands, 255.
Also Splendid Assortment of Table Cutlery and
Fancy Goods , including Rolled Gold Jewellery.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED OR MONEY RETURNED.
[Of''
Parh'm'nrlu Useful at Sea.
J7?OjVTofBLADE\
SflOM/VG GGA/2D
Use the
Can't-B-B'eat
Safety Razor
Shave every morning with
absolute ease, comfort,
and security . . ,
Shaving with ordinary
onavmg razor Big not
easy for anybody. It
takesmonths, yes, yearsof
practice, and few during
the period escape many
and serious cuts. Even
with experience, despite
care, cuts may be inflicted.
PRICE COMPLETE, in Case .. .. ss. 9d.
In Leather Case, with Extra Blade .. Bs. 9d„
EXTRA BLADES 2s. 3d.
Every Razor Cuaranteed and Set ready for use.
TOILET REQUISITES—Lowest Price
mum
GROUND
Can’t-B-Bsat
Razors are manufactured from
the very finest English Razor
Steel, and warranted ground by the most expert
workmen in the world.
Can’t-B-Beat Razor, in case, J-inch .. 48. 9d.
Can’t-B-Beat Razor, in case, f-inch .. ss. 3d.
Can’t-B-Beat Razor, in case, f-inch .. ss. 9d.
Can’t-B-Beat Razor, in case, §-inch .. 68. 3d.
Can’t-B-Beat Razor, with ivory handle .. 108. 6d.
Presentation Case —containing Two
Can’t-B-Beat Razors, ivory handles .. 218.
C. Brown & Sons’ Hair-Clippers, 5s each. Victory
Cream Shaving Soap, 3d tablet. Shaving Brushes,
sd, 9d, Is, 18 6d, 2s, 2s 6d, Bs, 8s 6d each.
Strops.
“ The Victory,” 2s each. Cant-B-Beat
Razor Strop, recommended by all the
leading hairdressers, 3s 6d each, " Satisfaction
guaranteed or money returned. *■
ll"'*
m
99
o
i
;yc
Lry
a 1
iiz
AA
THE FASCINATING CAME OF
x TABLECRICKET y
Any number of persons can play this Game. Price (complete), 15s.
Root
tEfe
None Genuine without the above Brand.
(lI I AP ANTFP Should any of our Celebrated CAN’T=B=BEAT Briar Pipes Crack or Burn
yjurMyrvn i NEW QNE WILL BE EXCHANGED FOR IT immediately on application.
Sold by all Tobacconists. By Post, 1s 2d.
cßb
C. 8.8. Pipe, sterling Silver Mount,
2/6 each.
C. 8.8. Pipe, hand-finished, with
Sterling Silver Mount, polished
Vulcanite Mouthpiece, in Mor-
occo Leather Case, 4/- each.
C. 8.8. Meerchaum Pipe, guaran-
teed genuine, Sterling Silver
Screw, Beet Quality Mouthpiece,
Morocco Cold-lined Case, 21/-
each.
C. 8.8. Pipe, hand-finished, Ster-
ling' Silver Mounted Rim and
Band, In Morocco Gold - lined
Leather Case, 8/6 each.
C. 8.8. Presentation Companion,
containing: two Silver Mounted,
hand-finished Pipes, Superior
Quality Mouthpieces, Red Mor-
occo Cold-lined Case, 15/6 each.
Patent Meerchaum Pipe, engraved Sterling Silver Rimmed Band, in plush-lined Cases, 7s 6d each.
Match B°xes, Presentation Pipes (in cases), Walking Sticks (Plain and Silver Mounted), Amber
Mouthpieces, Cigar Holders, Cigar Cases (Plain and Silver Mounted), Cigarette Cases (Plain and
Sdver Mounted), Snuff Boxes, Pipe Racks, Pocket Cutlery, Ash Trays, Cigarette Papers, Tobacco
Jars. Pipe Cleaners, &c., &c., &c. y ’
TOP QUALITY
BOTTOM PRICES
U'l
RICHMONO.VA
XA
TOBACCO
Dark and
Bright
IS THE BEST.
Price, ss. lb., Post Free, all States,
HAVING secure! the Sole Agency for the
above brand of AMERICAN TOBACCO, we
have very much pleasure in recommending
Janie to our Clients and th; Smoking Public. We
v feel sure that one trial wll be sufficient to con-
vince Smokers that “ SOLID SHOT " is the finest
7 vince Smokers that
Tobacco on the market,
does not bite the tongue.
Splendid aroma, and
Save “St lid Shot” Tobacco Tags.
For Each 10 j you will receive from the
Agents, free, one only C. 8.8. Briar
Pipe and Pocket Knife.
WHOLESALE PRICE LIBTB ON APPLICATION.
WONDERFUL VALUE IN CIGARS.
Single Box at Wholesale Price.
GUARANTEE : EVERY CIGAR SOUND AND IN PERFECT CONDITION.
Ggars delivered Free of Duty and Charges*
Goods Exchanged or Money Returned*
ROMA QUEENS
LA PAROLA, Reliable Smoke .
HIGH LIFE MENDOZA 3
NIMROD REINA VICTORIA ..
LA SPECIAL, from Choicest Leaf
SANTIAGO LA FLOR, Fine Quality
“ LEOLA,” Borneo, Mild Smoking'
“ EL RIVAL,” Borneo, Full Flavor
HEAVY WEIGHTS (P. De Mendoza)
“PERLA” BOUQUET ..
“EL MUNDO” (Rothschilds)
“ MEN DOZA ” (Rothschilds)
“PERLA” (Rothschilds)
“ MINERVA ” No. 1 MANILA
“ WINDSOR LADY” (Manila Regalia) ..
“PERLA MINERVA,” MANILA, Fine Quality
FLOR DE NAVES (Havana Reina) .
HENRY CLAY (Havana Couchas, Extra)’
25 in box
100 in box
100 in box
100 in box
100 in box
50 in box
50 in box
50 in box
ICO in box
50 in box
25 in box
25 in box
25 in box
100 in box
50 in box
25 in box
100 in box
50 in box
Sports Department
Nos. 1
Plain .. lOd
Polished .. Is
Half-Cane
All-Cane..
CRICKET.
BOYS’ BATS.
2 3 4
Is Od Is 3d Is 6d
Is 3d Is 6d Is 9d
3s 6d 4s Od
4s Od 4s 9d
5 6
2s Od 2s Od each
2s Od 3s Od „
4s 9d 5s 3d ~
5s 3d Os Od ~
BOYS’ STUMPS (with Bails).
lOin. 18in. 20in. 22in. 24in. 20in. 28in.
Od Is Od Is Od Is 9d 2s Od 2s 9d 3s Od set
Brass Ferrules 3s 9d 4s Od ~
Ferrules and Shoes 5s Od „
BOYS’ CRICKET BALLS.
Compos., 3d, sd, Od, 9d, Is, Is 4d each
Leather (Treble Seam), Is, Is 9d, 3s Od each.
BOYS’ PADS AND GAUNTLETS.
Tan or White Pads (continuous straps), 4s Od pair
Tan, Ventilated ~ ~ ~ Gs Od pair
Gauntlets, Tan or Chamois, 3s Od pair.
CRICKET SETS—Special Value.
3s Od, ss, 7s Od, 10s, 12s Od, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 22s Od.
MENS’ BATS.
Clapshaw’s, 5s Od, Os Od, 7s 3d, 8s 3d, 10s 6d, 15s, 16s 6d,
21s
Cook’s Special, 5s
Wisden’s, 13s, 15s, 17s Od, 20s, 22s Od
Shaw and Shrewsbury, 8s Od, 10s 6d, 11s Od, 14s, 18s
Ayre’s, 15s, 18s, 20s, 245, 29s Od
Oobbett’s, 8s Od, 10s Od, 11s Od, 15s Od, 20s, 22s Od
Also Bartlett’s, Dark’s, Nicolls’, Warsop’s, Bryan’s,
Quaife’s, Lillywhite’s, Sykes’, Hearn’s, Dye’s, Bats, &c.
MEN’S STUMPS (with Bails).
Brass-top, Steel-shod, Os, 8s Od, 9s Od, 10s 6d, 12s Od, 10s
Od set
Plain Ash, 3s, 4s Od set.
MEN’S CRICKET BALLS.
Compos., Is, Is 4d, Is Bd, 2s 3d, 3s, 4s 3d each
Leather, 3s Od, 4s 3d, ss, 5s 6d, Os Od, 7s Od each.
LEG-GUARDS AND GAUNTLETS.
Men’s Guards, 5s lid, Os Od, 7s Od, 8s Od, 9s Od, 12s Od,
14s Od, 10s Od pair
Men’s Gauntlets, 4s 9d, ss, Os Od, 7s Od, 8s Od, 9s Od, 10s,
10s Od, 12s Od, 14s Od pair.
GUNS. RIFLES. REVOLVERS. &c.
D.8.8.L. Guns (National Arms Co.), 12 gauge, 40s, 50s,
84s, 120 s
D.8.8.L. Guns (Pieper), 12 gauge, 455, 00s, 70s, 80s, 105 s
D.8.8.L. „ (Hollis), „ 82s, £8 Bs, £lO 12s Od,
£lll7s Od
D.8.8.L. „ (Greener), ~ £8 Bs, £lO, £l2 10s,
£lO 10s, £2l
D.8.8.L. ~ (Cashmore) ~ £8 Bs, £l2 12s, £lO
Daisy or King Air Rifles, 3s Od.
Harmless Air Rifles, 3s 9d, 5s 3d.
Air Rifles (superior), 10s Od, 15s, 18s, 20s, 20s, 425.
Air Pistols, Is 9d, 4s Od.
Hamilton Rifle, 22 calibre, 9s Od.
Steven’s Rifles, 22 calibre, 13s Od, 30s.
Steven’s Rifles, 22 W.R.F., 37s Od.
Winchester Rifles, 22 calibre (1902 model), 21s.
Bayard Rifles, 22 calibre, 14s Od, 22s Od.
Winchester or Colts Repeaters, 22 calibre, 50s.
Winchester Repeaters, 25/20, 32, 38, 44 calibres, 57s Od.
Saloon Rifles, No. 1,7 s Od ; No. 2,11 s ; No. 3,12 s Od each.
Pocket Pistols, No. 1 calibre, 2s 9d, 3s, ss.
Pocket Revolvers, 7s Od, 9s Od, 10s Od, 13s Od, 18s 6d.
AMMUNITION.
Cartridges, Universal, 12 and 10 g., 6s. 6d per 100.
~ Winchester, 12 g., 6s 9d per 100.
~ Smokeless, 12 gauge, 9s. per 100.
„ Amberite, 12g., 48grs., 13s 6d. per 100.
„ Winchester, 22 Short, Is 3d, Long, Is sd.
per 100.
„ Winchester, 32 C.F., ss, 38 and 44 0.F., 5s 9d
per 100.
Darts for Air Guns, lOd per dozen.
Slugs for Air Guns, lOd and Is per 1000.
Powder, FFF., Jib. tin, 6d, Jib. tin, lOd.
Shot, 3d lb., 6s. per bag of 281bs.
Saloon Caps, No. 1,8 d ; No. 2, Is 6d; No. 3,2 s 6d per 100,
Shot Caps, No. 1, Is 6d ; No. 2,2 s 3d ; No. 3,3 s per 100.
Sandow's Dumb Bells and Developers.
Child’s Nickel Spring Grip Dumb Bells .. 6s 6d pair
Boys' „ „ ~ „ „ .. 9s 6d „
Youths’ ~ ~ „ „ ~ .. 12s 6d „
Ladies’ „ ~ „ ~ ~ .. 12s 6d ~
Men’s „ ~ ~ „ ~ .. 14s 6d „
Men’s Black Enamel Spring Grip Dumb Bells 10s Od ~
SANDOW’S Combined Developer.. .. 15s Od set
„ Obesity Reducer .. .. 15s Od „
M'Fadden’s Developers, 3s 6d, 4s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 13s 6d „
New Race Games.
The “ Sandown,” 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 16s 6d, 355, 40s, 555, 90s each
The “ Newmarket ”.. .. 6s 6d, 11s 6d, 13s 6d „
The “Ascot” .. 6s, 8s 9d, 15s 3d, 21s 9d 31s ~
Roulette.
Best Quality
Cloths ..
5s 6d, 9s 6d, 20s, 27s 6d each
2s 6d, 4s 6d „
Lawn Tennis
Children’s Racquets .. .. 2s 6d, 3s 9d, 4s 9d each.
Full Size ~ Ascot 2s 6d
Derby 3s 6d
Handicap 5s
Ayre’s „ .. .. 6s 6,7 s 6d, 7s lid
Handicap 12s 6d
Close Strung .. .. 16s 6d
Champion .. .. 19s 6d
Slazenger’s Renshaw 13s 6d
Ich Dien 20s
Whitehouse .. .. 25s
E.G.M. .. .. .. 30s
Sets for 2 Players, complete, in Strong Box, 255, 30s, 355,
40s, 50s.
Sets for 4 Players, complete, in Strong Box, 30s, 40s, 60s,
60s, 70s, 80s, 90s, 100 s, 120 s.
Grey Regulation Balls .. .. 4s 6d doz.
Covered „ ~ .. 9s6d „
Ayres’ Grey Regulation Balls
~ Champion „
Slazenger’s Grey Reg. „
~ Covered Match ~
8s 6d doz.
16s Od „
10s Od „
16s Od „
Table Billiards.
Will fit any table up to 12ft. long and 6ft. wide,
packed in Strong Polished Box
Same as above, but with Real Ivory Balls and
Patent Marker
Pool Tables.
4ft. long x l 8 inches wide, covered with green baize
cloth, patent wire cushions, set of thirteen
balls, pyramid triangle, and two cues ..
80s
63s
21s
Targets and Darts.
Small Target (2 darts)
Large
Is 3d
(4 „ ) .. ..
Ping-Pong.
Sets (complete) .. Is6d, 2s, 3s, 4s6d, 6s6d, Bs9d,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
Balls lOd, Is, Is 3d, Is 6d, Is 9d doz.
Gladstone Bags. Solid Leather.
18in., 11s ; 20in., 12s 3d ; 22in., 13s 6d ; 24in., 14s 9d ea.
Full SPORTING PRICE-LIST sent FREE on Application.
MICK SIMMONS,
Tobacco Merchant
and Importer . ..
TOBACCONISTS AND STOREKEEPERS MAY OBTAIN WHOLESALE
LIST ON APPLICATION.
Haymarket, SYDNEY


GARDNER’S SPA WATER
ft*™- yoU'i''s* ltl f'<*
if &U~ | C ”’’!» IHUU..OI. 4 -**}“"** j %
‘ tttiw j j }
sJbz Sr w ■■«•**
W* y A« 9U:J»hm4M
Agents Wanted throughout Australasia.
SPA will be supplied in Casks, direct from our Spring
at Helidon, or in Bottle (aerated) from Our
Factory in Brisbane.
Full Particulars from
OWEN GARDNER & SONS, BRISBANE
iHMImsISB
m
S3H2
m
General Electric
Incandescent Lamps.
THE EDISON LAMP
Absolutely
THE BEST!
Annual Sales, 18,000,000.
After Competitive Tests, 63,750
were purchased by the Melb.
City Council.
LONG LIFE. HIGH EFFICIENCY.
Large Stock always on hand.
AUSTRALIAN
GEIEIIb EIECTIIC M.
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS,
Melbourne and Sydney.
VSW VA v^ v SA( , / w S/ v
Motors, Dynamos, Steam Dynamo Sets, etc.,
also in Stock.
©
©
@
©
A Tempting Offer for Xmas.
The Rosewarne Packing Co.,
XimvanTiEiD.,
Being very desirous of introducing their
OAKTKTBID DELICACIES
to every household in the Commonwealth have
arranged through Messrs.
F. LASSETTER & COMPANY, LTD.,
to put up Sample Cases of their Poultry, etc., which will be sold at
WHOLESALE PRICES.
The Company is prepared to rely on the quality of
their pack bringing them such business in the
near future as will compensate them for the
large expense incurred in the distribution of
the goods.
¥••'< <*; *
Price for 2 dozen cases containing 12 Tins of Assorted Poultry,
consisting of Chicken, Turkey, Duck and Goose Roast, in
Aspic, Curried and Stuffed —and 12 tins Sausages and Pies
and Pates, consisting of Beef, Cambridge, Pork, Irish and
Oxford Sausages, Chicken and Ham Pates, Game Paties and
Pies, Veal and Ham Pates, Yachting Pates and Camp Pies.
Weight, 361bs. gross, delivered at Railway Station or Wharf, 225. Gd.
Price for 4 dozen cases, weight, 641bs. gross - - (each) 425. 6d.
,♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦*♦
Send your Order to F. Lassetter & Co., Ltd., early,
befote the supply runs out.
My Lady Panama*
ihe man who wore a Panama
Referred to it as “She,”
Until a friend, who heard him talk,
Remarked to him that he
Did not exactly understand
Why he should think it fit
To feminise the neuter, and
Say “She” instead of “It.”
** Oh, you don't know the Panama l "
The other man replied,
As, gently taking off his hat,
He smoothed it round with pride;
44 It's plain enough to me why I
Should speak of it as ‘ She,'
Because, old man, the Panama
Is so expensive—see?"
This man had evidently not seen the prices at .
CHARLES GILBERT'S,
THE LEADING TAILOR
and OUTFITTER. . . .
who has just returned from visiting the centres of manufacture for these
scarce lines, and can supply (as illustrations) at 18s 6d, 22s 6d, 255, 30s,
355, 40s, and 455, securely packed and carriage paid to any address in the
Commonwealth, for Cash with order.
Write for Catalogue, Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms, and compare his values
in High-class Tailoring with what you can procure in the Southern States. You will
save money.
ONLY ADDRESS ——„
Queen Street, Brisbane


Danger ahead 1
The engineer
doesn’t see the
broken rail.
There is sure
to be a terri-
ble wreck.
There’s a
wreck
ahead for
m
you if you pay no attention to your
weak throat and longs.
Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
Weak throats and weak lungs easily
give way. Some extra strain, as a
fresh cold, and you are down with
bronchitis or pneumonia. Better
strengthen these weak places before it
is too late. Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
heals these irritable throats, gives tone
to the relaxed membranes, and imparts
strength to the lungs.
There are many substitutes and imi-
tations. Beware of them! Be sure
you get Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
Two sizes. Large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
W. H.Wigzell.
FRINGES: Best Natural Guriy
Hair, 3/6, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each.
TAILS and PLAITS : 20in. long - ,
6/6 ; extra thick, 7/6; 24in., 10/6;
extra thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings worked up,
2/6 per oz. Don’t be misled.
Our Plaits and Tails are twice as
thick as sold elsewhere at the
same price. Send color of Hair.
Only one address : HO WILLIAM-
ST.', cor. of Palmer St. SYDNEY.
Cable trams will stop at door. All work guaranteed.
Illustrated Catalogue post free. Prompt attention given
to country orders. Wigs made on shortest notice. All
Hairwork sent to the other States free of duty. Transfor-
mations, entire covering for the head, 30/- eaoh.
This New
Fashionable
Mount,
TWO TIPS WITH
OSPREYS,
In black, white, cream
or black tipped with
white,
3/.
THE BUNCH.
Post Free.
We make this special offer to
advertise our
Ostrich Tips.
Write To-day. Send Postal Note.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Bourke and Swanston Streets, MELBOURNE.
Mention The Bulletin.
"I’ll Try It *
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capiliarine
Posted (under cover)
■ to any part ot Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
Wk\m
The Meruit.
CRAIG & AITKEN. N.s. W. Barber’s Supply
House, 680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
FLUID
OIL
CRUDE FLUID
POWDER
EMBROCATION
80APS
DIBINFECTORB
INHALERS
FUMICATORB
NfTi
FLUID
COLORLESS
FRAGRANT
NON.
POISONOUS
DOES NOT
STAIN
KILLS ALL
PIBEASE
GERMS
OXYGENATES
THE AIR.
Sulphur Candles - \ KINGZETT’S
Formic Fumigators / PATENTS.
"HOW TO DISINFECT " Book Free.
The “SANITAS ” CO., Ltd.,
Bethnal Green, LONDON, E.
GO TO lIELI.-
Hiur.AM' for Pretty Stumps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hager),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 E3izafoeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
ksmSs*^
X!
VS
/.
It
WONT STICK TO THE IRON
JL
SILVER STAR
TH E BEST IN THE WORLD
Australian Mutual Provident Society
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Next Distribution of the Profits at
31st December, 1902.
Policies issued before the close of this year will share in the Bonus to be then allotted.
The Cash Bonus divided among the participating policy holders for the single year 1901 was £538,725,
being the largest amount ever allotted by the Society in one year. (All bonuses vest immediately
on nolicies attaining a duration of two years. ->•>
Persons desirous of effecting assurances with the A.M.P. Society should note the above carefully, and
send in their applications early, either direct or through any of the Society’s Agents, so as to reap
the benefit of this year’s bonus.
Directors— Thomas Littlejohn, Esq., Chairman ; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.0., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
Directors ihomasui Abbo tt, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ;F. E. YVinchcombe, Esq., M.P.
reneral Manao-er and Actuary-EiciiAßD Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE ‘ 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 109 r
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
£2F Send for a
Catalogue.
Went Shaft Sulkies,
*lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles.
The Best and Cheapest .
H. HILLIER, 1 30 Sussex St., Sydney
Straight Shaft 3-Spring Sulkies, £BlO9.
Sarven Sulky Wheels Tyred, £2 4s 6d pair.
Discount .to Wholesale Buyers. Send for Catalogue.
WINCHESTER
METALLIC CARTRIDGES.
URING our 30 years of gun making, we have
discovered many things about ammunition that
no one could learn in any other way. Our
discoveries in this line, together with years of
experience manufacturing ammunition, enable us
to embody many fine points in Winchester
Metallic Cartridges for rifles and revolvers which make them
superior in many ways to all other brands upon the market.
Winchester cartridges in all calibers are accurate, sure-fire
and exact in size; being made and loaded in a modern
by skilled experts. If you want the'" best
3 INSIST UPON HAVING WINCHESTER MAKE OF CARTRIDGES.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Written excuse offered in reply to a charge
of negligence by a contractor under Vic. Public
Works Department:
“As to charge A, I beg to say that I left home in the
morning intending to catch the first train to —-—. On
the way I met a friend, and we had a few drinks. I
missed the first train, and while waiting for the second
train I met some more friends. I got drunk and had a
fight. And lo and behold, when I had finished my man
I found I had missed the second train. I was therefore
unable to get to in time to meet the inspector.”
At a backblocks pub. “Good dog, tl at.
Can he work ?” “My colonial! Why, he kept
the house goin’ for months. It was this way :
When he was a little pup he started workin’ the
fowls, and when we had killed all the fowls he
sorter found himself out of a job, so he took to the
crik. The crik was only a chain of waterholes,
and that dorg used to work the fish outer the
water into the mud so’s we could kitch ’em.”
Those who are suffering from loss of hair, dry-
ness of the hair, dandruff, or any of the many ills inci-
dent to the scalp, should certainly accept the offer made
on page 34 by the Koko Marieopas Co., Ltd., of London,
Paris, and New York, whereby for the small sum of 2s.
anybody can try their marvellous “Koko for the Hair."
It has been proved over and over again that there is
nothing so delightful for the hair as Koko ; and to use it
once is to use it always. Koko for the hair is no new
thing, for in the old country it has had an immense vogue
for a quarter of a century. For squatters and others in
the dry interior it is invaluable,-keeping the hair soft
and glossy, and in hundreds of cases causing a vigorous
growth of hair on bald heads. It is used now almost
universally throughout Australasia.*
Mors.
Death comes to All —to All he comes;
His Net is in the sky ; his Hook
Seeks thro’ the wheat and thro’ the weeds;
Upon the hills appears his Crook.
Deep in the sea, and in the caves
Of fire, falls his long, swift sword,
He gathers them that be at sin,
And them at beads afore the Lord.
And some are caught that shake the spear,
And some that shake the foot in dance.
And some fall lifeless in the chair,
And some in chains and some in trance.
He kisses children in their sleep;
His cold kiss stills the heart; Ah me—
He built the Jew a Roman Cross,
His hand was in the Judas Tree.
And, O, the lover at the gate,
The beggar at the well—the four
Wild winds will whistle of their fate—
“ They, too, are added to the score.”
They all shall fall, Death comes to All,
’Tis vain they mope, his beck to see ;
But when I die, God grant that I
Do fall in Love’s sweet ecstaoy.
TROUVERE.
Thy Love is Dead.
I clasped her hand and said “Good-bye,”
And later faced the winter morn ;
And heard sweet birds go singing by,
And all my heart within me torn ;
And one mad moment came and said,
“ Thy Love is dead ! Thy Love is dead ! ”
I saw the sun-bride kiss the hill,
And heard the whispering brook between ;
I heard the song-bird singing, still
I said : “My Love had never been.”
My hot blood leaped in rage and said,
“ Thy Love is dead ! Thy Love is dead ! ”
I came nigh to the sun-kissed hill,
Yet stayed my feet in forest deep ;
And called unto my deadened will,
“ Paint me a love that I may keep.”
The forest wind then breathed and said,
“Thy Love is dead ! Thy Love is dead ! ”
I laughed to scorn the idle tale;
Was she not fair as this fair morn ?
Was not her brow so sweet and pale ?
And her pure soul for mercy born ?
She came all silent where I stood
(And hardly still the vision dies) ;
Her lips were flecked with red-rose blood,
And cloud-flecked were her light-blue eyes.
Came music wildering o’er my brain,
Her voice was sweet and low ai.d clear
Like sunlight flitting o’er the plain,
When cloud have paled the hills so near.
And as cloud-shadowed hills between,
Her wayward mood upon me bent;
Fired fiery shafts of transient spleen
Into my heart, and then —relent,
And put her hand within my own,
Caress my brow and kill my pain.
Would that those shafts werejever thrown
So she may heal my hurt again.
And yet, and yet ! O Winter-morn
Give spirit-speed to Wings of Light;
Tell her I go unto a bourne
Where is no day but only night.
The Winged Light returned and said,
“Thy Love is dead ! Thy Love is dead ! ”
W.A.
F. W. WAKEHAM.


38s
*mms v%w>?
V .<
-£/( 1
«
&
%nf
ll
$
&
1
isf
YOUTH and VIGOR!
W 1
t-s&mc'
m
■k-y
-^TiW^
mmfi
.-■/?
/Mm
HAT is grander? What prize that is better can this world offer to a man? Hone! Ho, sir! If you have these two sterling
qualities, you are at the pinnacle. Don’t be a weakling, don’t be a half-man. Hature intended you to be strong and healthy ;if
you are not, it is your own fault, and it lies with you whether or not you will remedy your condition.
If you are one of those unfortunates without nerve, void of all those fine sentiments that make a man, undecided in your actions,
lacking the vim, the snap and fire of youth, it is because your functional organs are weak. Your nervous system is undermined and wasting
away. You know why. How then ! you know that you don’t want to go on like this; you want to be strong, vigorous, and full of ___
courage. You have been disappointed and defrauded by quacks ; you’ve taken barrels of nasty drugs, and they have
not helped you a bit and never will. Your body is like an engine without steam. Oiling the parts won’t make the engine go. Pouring injurious tissue-
destroying drugs into your stomach won’t create vigorous circulation; won’t build new nerves, won’t cure you. Ho! not in a thousand years. You need
new nerve life pumped into your body for hours at a time—a steady, life-giving current of Electricity. Get it while you sleep—it will not fail you.
I
1
DR. McLAUGHUN’S ELECTRIC SELT
carries this new life into the body. It expands the tissues, develops the organs and muscles, renews the animal vitality. Its life-giving current brings the
sparks back to the eye, makes the step firm and elastic, and brings back a buoyancy of spirits to which you have been a stranger for a long time.
The most stubborn case of weakness can be perfectly and permanently cured in three months. Remember this: No drugs used; they are the great
expense to the patient.
£lOOO Reward
for any case we fail to cure
with our new Improved Belt.
s
S'
s
m
es.
ms
N
m
L
//
i
OURS the on, y Electric
9 Belt bearing Aus-
tralian Patent Rights.
No Other Genuine!
3
w
as:
%
Our chief-of-staff is the only
Australian Registered Special-
ist who devotes his entire
time to Electric Treatment.
Trust no other!
We apply Electricity intelli-
gently, using different grades
of strength for different ail-
ments. We don’t sell Belts like
so much SCRAP-IRON.
Every day we publish new letters from grateful patients. We receive thousands of letters a year. They come from people in all walks of life, and
teem with gratitude. As to their bona-fideness, we always offer £lOO for proof to the contrary. Read these :
From Tasmania.
The pains in my back and shoulders are quite gone, and my back
and nerves are now much better. I can sleep at night now without
those horrible dreams that use to torment me.
Yours truly,
Wesley vale, N.-W. Coast. ROBERT PIPER.
From West Australia.
The doctors here had done all possible for me, and could only
relieve my terrible Sciatica. In three days your Belt stopped the
pain, and now I am entirely well. I had suffered for years, and I
can never repay you for what you’ve done.
Yours gratefully,
Angel Terrace, Coolgardie. P. W. KELLY
From Queensland.
Dear Sirs, —I suffered for a long time from general weakness, de-
bility, and nervous exhaustion. I tried everything—change of
climate, etc.—but your Belt gave me the first real relief I ever had,
and ultimately cured me. lean never thank you enough for what
you have done for me. Yours truty, JOHN KING.
Marine Department, Edward-street, Brisbane.
From Victoria.
Dear Sirs, —I am sending you a report of my condition, and am
glad to tell you that I am gradually improving. My spirits are
lighter and brighter, and the dreadful dreams which I had at night
have greatly subsided, and I can again feel pleasure in my surround-
ings. If I can find any more acquaintances needing help I will
be glad to recommend your Belt, and will never fail to do so.
Yours truly,
Erskdale. 6. W. SAUNDERS.
From N.S.W.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.
Dear Sirs.—Your Belt is doing me a lot of good, and I feel twice
the fellow since I got it, having only had two slight attacks since I
have worn the Belt, but they were nothing to speak of. I consider
it worth twice as much as I gave for it.
I would advise anyone suffering in a similar manner to try one, as
it is worth its weight in gold. I remain yours, truly,
Mt. Heir a. CHARLES STONE.
From New Zealand.
Tub Dr. McLauglin Go.
Dear Sirs. —I was so delighted with my Belt that I quite forgot
all about writing to you. I am pleased to be able to tell you that
the pain over my heart has entirely disappeared already, and I
don’t tire so easily as I used to. lam more than pleased and will
always recommend your Belt.
I remain, yours sincerely,
Pahiatua, New Zealand. OTTO WEBB.
FREE BOOK
Unless you have read our Free Book, expounding our methods of treatment, you have never made the step in the right
direction to get your health back. Our book is beautifully illustrated ;it shows cuts, explaining just how we treat eac 1
kind of ailment. It is free from technical terms, and is a complete and comprehensive digest upon Electricity and its application to the human body. It is
sent free and post-paid to all parts. We can treat you at a distance as successfully as we can in our office, though we are glad when you call if you aie neai
enough. Don’t ever pay anyone to make you a written diagnosis. We do it free and give you advice, gleaned from years of study and practical experience.
We ship Belts to all countries, duty and all charges paid. Write to us if you want to get well. Enclose this paragraph.
NOTICE
we have nothin;
Don’t delay.
If you have an old-style Belt that disappointed you, send it in, and we will allow you for it in exchange. We do this not because the
old Belt is any use, for it is .not. But we wish to show people, candidly, that there is only one real Electric Belt to be had, and a
in common with concerns selling a cheap, questionable article. Call and have a free test, and get our free book explaining our methoc s.
Write to us for an Explanation of “Free Belt” Frauds.
The dr. McLaughlin co.,
85 SIMS' STEEET, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Offices: 167 E Swans ton St.


Gentlemen’s Card Cases
IN SOLID SILVER
Make useful, uncommon, and (at our prices)
inexpensive presents. We have a variety of neat,
good-looking cases ready for your inspection.
Plain, Polished Silver, 12s 6d ; Embossed Silver,
16s Cd; Engraved Silver, with hinged cover,
18s 6d, and 21s. Then we have the Solid, Polished
9ct Gold ones, at £5 and £6 10s.
Ladies’ Stylish Silver
Muff Chains
Are quite fashionable just now. You may remem-
ber that the Duchess of York wore one while in
Australia. We have a new lot of pretty styles at
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 13s 6d, and 14s 6d. Then the Silk
ones cost Is ; or if with ornaments, 2s, 3s and 4s.
The long strings of Parisian Pearls cost 15s.
Christmas will be here in about Twelve Days!
T 7. «
number of davs becomes shorter as Christmas comes nearer, more and more people who have put it off until then, select their presents, and the last days are so ciowded that
agreSfe Shopphtfis "akS 'wTtKZ nrgi, the early briyiAg of Christmas Presente, it is none too early now. Our Stocks are magnificently
prepared—more time can be used in selection —there is less crowding, less fatigue now than later on, ana
OUR PRICES ARE, UNDER ALL CIRCUMSTANCES, ABSOLUTELY THE LOWEST.
I
Gold Pin
Charms
Every lady likes to
have one or more of
these useful little pins.
They are so handy for
fastening lace. We have
a nice selection now.
With Kangaroo or Emu
Pendants, 6s 6d ; a
better one, 8s 6d ; with
lucky Pig,Chased Heart
or Wishbone, 6s 6d ;
Large Bean, 6s 6d ; Ex-
tra Large Bell, 8s 6d ;
With small Heart, Bean
or Bell, 3s 6d.
Pocket
Fruit
Knives
Of real Mother of Pearl with Solid Silver
Blade. Never use a steel blade to out
fruit as it spoils both fruit and blade. The
prices are so low that everyone can afford
to carry a fruit knife. 2s 6d, 3s 6d, 4s 6d,
5s 6d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 9s 6d, 10s 6d.
Shaving Hugs
A useful present for a man is one of
these strongly Silver Plated Shaving Mugs.
Prices run 22s 6d, 255, 27s 6d. Then we
have a special
line with
brush for
18s 6d and
21s.
Silver
Hatch
Boxes
In nicely engraved styles at 6s 6d, 7s 6d,
9s 6d, 10s 6d and 12s 6d. Then we have
them with Solid Gold Mounts at 12s 6d,
13s 6d and 15s 6d. The real Queensland
Bean Match Boxes are quite a novelty,
with Solid Silver Mounts, 9s 6d, 10s 6d
and 12s 6d.
Gold Studs
Made from one piece of metal.
No weak parts as in soldered
studs.
For the Collar —in Oct Gold, 7s 6d; 15ct 10s 6d;
18et, 14s 6d.
Front Studs in
4s, 4s Od ; 15ct,
18ct, 7s, 8s 6d ;
Silver, Is. The
9ct cost 3s 6d,
5s 6d, 6s 6d ;
in Silver, Is.
A Pretty 15ct Gold Front Stud,
set fine Opal, tor 18s 6d.
Gold
Links
In every conceiv-
able style, with
extra strong
Chain Connections. In Silver, 3s 6d, 4s,
4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d. In 9ct Gold, 13s 6d,
14s 6d, 16s 6d, 18s 6d, 21s, 22s 6d and 25s ;
in 15ct Gold, 27s 6d, 30s, 37s 6d, 40s; 455, 50s.
Then we have the Gem-Set Links at £4,
£5, £6 10s, up to £lO 10s.
Nellie Stewart
Gold
Bangles
Are still as popular as ever, and we have a
good range of Sizes and Prices.
Each one is perfect in make, and has the
Invisible Joint and Catch.
In 9ct Gold they run 50s, 635, 70s, 80s,
87s Cd ; in 15ct Gold, 67s 6d, 955, £5,
£6, £7.
Gentlemen’s
Scarf Pins
In many natty designs. The one we illus-
trate is in the form of a Fly, composed
of 15ct Gold, Opals and Pearls. The
Price is 30s.
Other nice styles, with-
out Stones, at 10s 6d,
11s 6d, 12s 6d.
Gem-set Pins, at 17s 6d,
255, 27s Od, 40s, up to
£45.
Ladies’
Silver-Mounted
Purses.
An enormous gathering of all the popular
styles, with Solid Silver Locks and Mounts.
The prices run, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 14s 6d, 16s 6d,
18s 6d, 21s, 22s 6d, 255, 27s 6d. With
Massive Ornamented Silver Mount, a very
special line, £2 15s. With Gold Mounts,
37s 6d and 40s. An All-Silver Purse (new
style) in the exquisite Watteau style, £2 10s.
Silver=riounted
Velvet Boxes.
Quite a new departure. The one illus-
trated is a Handkerchief Box, with Solid Sil-
ver Corner Mounts and Shield to take Initials,
Price 22s 6d. Then we have a lonjr Glove Box,
same style, at 255. An Exquisite Fitted Jewel
Case for £2 15s.
Satin=lined
Jewel Cases
In Oblong, Square and Egg Shape Styles.
Strongly and exquisitely decor-
ated. The one illustrated is novel in design
and priced
at 255. A
Smaller
Size at
12s6d. Ob-
long Shape
at 18s 6d,
21sand25s,
and Square
Styles at
£1 ss.
They make
charming
gifts.
Serviette
Rings
Are used every day
and three times a
day, too; and so they
are just the. thing to
give as presents. No
more useful article could you select. The
Prices for Silver-plated and Engraved Rings
run, 4s 6d, 5s and 5s 6d. Then those with
Stands and Ornaments are 4s 6d, 6s 6d, 8s 6d,
10s 6d. Solid Silver ones from 6s 6d to 18s 6d.
As Good
as Gold
Is our 14cb. Gold-Filled Waltham Lever
Watch, made specially for us by the
Waltham Watch 00. Probably you don’t
exactly know what “ gold-filled ” means.
Well, with us, it means that a plate of
metal is used between two plates of solid
gold, and that you get the same appear-
ance and satisfaction as you get from all
gold, at one-fourth the cost. Does that
appeal to you ? A Gent.’s Gold-fi’led
Hunting Watch, f-plate, keyless, fully
jewelled Waltham lever movement, guaran-
teed a perfect timekeeper, for £6 10s.
Tie
Clips.
These ornamental and useful articles
should be worn by every man who wears a
stand-up collar. They keep the tie from
rising up over the collar. We have them
in all Gold, 9ct, at 6s 6d ; extra strong
make, 12s 6d. If set with Pearls, Rubies,
Sapphires, Turquoises, or Opals, they
cost 16s 6d.
Bamboo
Bangles
Are favorites without a doubt, they are so
good looking and novel. We have a full
range of sizes. In 9ct. Gold they run
275. 6d., 375. 6d., 455., 50s. Child’s Size,
17s. 6d. In 15ct. Gold, 555., 755., 90s. A
New Style of Gold Bangle is called the
“ Melba,” as Worn by Madame Melba. It
is a twistsd “ Nellie Stewart,” and in 9ct.
Gold cost 555.
Hair=Pin
Boxes.
Should have a place on every dressing-
table. We have them as shown, in
decorated Silver-plate, 12s (id ; others at
8s 6d and 11s 6d. Out Glass, with Solid
Silver Lid, 13s 6d. Bottle-shaped, with
Silver top, 6s 6d.
Band
Rings
I.*u-
In 18ct. Gold, set with Ruby, Sapphire or
Opal, £2 ss. With nice Diamond, £3 10s,
£4 10s, £5 10s. Then all Gold ones, 18ct.,
run 21s, 30s, 40s, and a neat one in 9ct.
Gold costs but 13s 6d. We can make up
in our own workskshop Band Rings to any
size you like. We will be glad to send
sketches and quotations.
Silver
Pin Trays
In a lot of neat styles at very moderate
prices. The one we picture here is 4|in.
long and costs 6s 6d. A larger one for
10s 6d, 12s 6d and up to 40s for elaborate
styles. A neat Silver Plated Pin Tray for
3s. A Silver
Plated Comb
Tray for 10s 6d.
Solid Silver
Brush and
Comb Trays,
70s, 90s, £5 10s
In good Silver
Plate, 16s 6d.
Gold
Charms.
Hundreds of uncommonly Pretty Charms
to hang on Neck Chains, Muff Chains, or
Bangles, are to be seen here. Write for
our New Christmas List for Illustrations.
We describe a few only here. Greenstone
and Gold Bean, 9s 6d ; Gold Pussdn-Boot,
8s 6d ; Rat in Hat, 8s 6d ; Shoe, 8s 6d ;
Pipe, 8s 6d ; 15ct. Gold Anchor, 8s 6d ;
15ct. Gold Bean, 10s 6d; Round Shape
Photo Pendants, in 9ct. gold, 8s 6d ; Heart
Shape, 10s 6d; Large Round or Oval
Shapes, 13s 6d.
Child’s
Cups
In best Silver-
plate and nicely
Embossed or
Engraved. Will stand plenty of use and
abuse, such as a child will give them—
8s 6d, 10s 6d, 14s 6d. A very nice one, in
a Velvet-lined Case, for 14s 6d. A Solid
Silver one at 40s, 50s, 60s.
For other Children’s Presents write for
our Xmas List, now ready.
Gold
Lockets
In Round, Oval and Heart
Shapes, and in 9ct. and
15ct. Gold. 9ct., Heart
Engraved, 12s. 6d.; Round- Engraved, 16s.
6d. 15et. Gold, Engraved Hearts, 21s,
275. 6d.; Round, 305.; Oval, 275. 6d. and
30s. We have a very complete selection of
Ladies’ Small Lockets at every price from
12s. 6d. to 355. Every one is new and pretty
and will please the most fastidious.
A Superb Gathering of Gold Brooches
Never have we had such a lovely lot of Gold Brooches. Write for our Xmas Catalogue, or, better
still, call and see them. In 9ct. Gold for ss, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 9s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 13s 6d, 18s 6d, 21s,
255, 27s 6d, 30s, and in 15ct. Gold, 255, 30s, 3Es, 37s 6d, 40s, up to £lOO, and every one a gem of
beauty.
9ct. Gold, 12s 6d.
4
9et. Gold and Amethyst, 255.
STEWART DAWSON & CO
Strand Corner,
George-sU Sydney*
Pocket Books
For Men, in Fine Leather, with Silver
Locks and Corners, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 14s 6d,
18s 6d, 255. Letter Cases for the same prices.
Card Cases for 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d. Cigar
and Cigarette Cases for 16s 6d, 18s 6d, 21s,
255, or with Gold Mounts from 40s to 555.
We have every sort of present suitable for Man
or Boy, and always at Most Moderate Prices.


A Quiet
Nip ••••
Four Crown
Whisky
n,Ws£»
■ -'i'l
vH
General Debilitation.
A CASE IN PYRMONT.
A Permanent Recuperation.
The Case of Mr. W. H. ATKINS.
(by our reporter. )
W hat an easy matter it is for a benevo-
lent being to diffuse pleasure and gladness
around him. In order to do so it is only
necessary to consider what means are pos-
sessed to lighten the burdens of our fellow-
men, and to help in whatever direction the
conscience may dictate. It is evident that
Mr. William Henry Atkins, of No. 211
Crown-road, Pyrmont, shares in this
opinion, for he said in reply to a question
put by our reporter :
“Of course, I will give you any informa-
tion you require, as the knowledge I gained
may be turned to good account by some
poor sufferer in need of good advice. It
has always been my motto to help those in
distress, and I think I can do so by letting
humanity know about the remarkable ex-
perience I had. I think that worry was at
the back of all my troubles, for after an in-
cident which grieved me greatly, I fell into
bad health. I did not care about anything
to eat, simply because I had no appetite.
The most tasty morsels imaginable failed to
tempt me as a rule, although I had to force
myself to take some nourishment when I
felt that I could not hold out any longer.
Not only was my appetite bad, but I ab-
stained from eating because of the pains
which afterwards appeared. My stomach
always got full of wind, which shifted about
from side to side, and left cramping pains
in all directions, and heavy pains affected
my chest. Sometimes I felt as if the
breath was being crushed out of me, the
oppression was so great, and I naturally felt
deeply concerned about it, as chest com-
plaints are so serious in their consequences.
As my food was not doing me any good I
lost strength rapidly, and soon I dropped
into that languid state of indifference to
everything which is so disastrous to every
business man’s career. I felt as if I did
not care how things went, and the morbid-
ness of my spirits quite precluded me from
thinking about anything pleas rnt. Haras-
sed as I was by depressing headaches, and
with my eyes dim and feeling as if they
were swollen, no wonder that I lost all in-
terest in life, for the average man does not
wish to live unless he is contented and at
ease.”
“ But yclur lot was not so hard to bear
when night came, for then, I suppose, you
obtained relief in sleep ? ” remarked Mr.
Atkins’ interrogator.
“ Don’t you believe it; if anything, my
nights were more intolerable than the days,
as I could not succeed in getting anything
like a night’s rest. Certainly, I used to
doze off from time to time, but the sleep
was not refreshing, because of the intrusion
of repulsive dreams, and when I got up I
felt as weary as if I had been awake all
night. I could hardly stand the bitter taste
which was in my mouth every morning, and
the unhealthy condition of my stomach
could be detected by the fur on my tongue;
but what I regretted more than all else was
the quick and painful throbbing of my heart.
When I laid down I felt that organ shaking
inside in a way that caused me much alarm,
so that, with every particle of strength
being gradually eaten away by my com-
plaints, there was nothing in my condition
to assist me in entertaining hopes of a re-
covery. The least exertion brought on a
feeling of faintness, and when 1 stood up I
used to get quite giddy, as if everything
was on the move. All this I put down to
my extreme weakness, which was also re-
sponsible for the annoying aches in my legs
and loins." From some cause or other my
arms were also intensely painful, and if ever
a nervous system was wrecked it was mine
On the least provocation I became excited
and irritable, while the trembling of my
nerves served to increase the general misery
of my existence. My body was greatly de-
nuded of flesh, and I can tell you in all
seriousness that my life was a burden which
I would willingly have cast off at any
moment.”
“I believe you suffered in this way
several years,” interjected the scribe.
“ During the period of your illness did you
ever enlist the services of a medical man ? ”
“ Considering that I was lingering, wait
ing, and hoping for years, I should rather
think I did,” replied Mr. Atkins. “ Why.
I consulted dozens of doctors, yet my suffer-
ings grew worse, and I may also state thai
I have taken scores of medicines which wen
procured at stores and chemists’ shops. li
would have been far better if I had kept,
the money in my pocket, for all but one of the
medicines were of no service to me. The
only remedy which suited my complaints
was Clements Tonic, and this was recom-
mended to me by a man living in Harris
street, who had used it, and knew what it
could do. After taking two bottles of
Clements Tonic I felt much better, and was
able to get about with much more freedom.
I went to a chemist to get some more, but
he put me off by saying he could give me
something better, and pointed out the
difference in the size of the bottles, so,
foolishly enough, I bought his medicine in-
stead of Clements Tonic, and in a few days
I was as bad as ever. Then I insisted on
having Clements Tonic, and again I im-
proved under its influence, so that there was
no doubt about its being the best medicine
in the market. I would rather have one
dose of Clements Tonic than a barrelful of
any other medicine, for it proved its supe-
riority in every possible way. The first
thing it did was to make me eat and sleep,
and I was glad of the respite from ni>
afflictions which I had when resting. Be-
fore long a feeling of animation spread right
through my system, and I then shook of!
the yoke of depression which had clouded
my past few years, as I felt assured that
Clements Tonic would pull me through. In
course of time the pains arising from indi-
gestion were quelled; the nauseous taste
left my mouth, and my head was free from
aches. Some of my doctors said my liver
was diseased, while others said my stomach
was extremely weak; but if they had seen
me after a few weeks’ use of Clements
Tonic they would not have known me. My
stomach could then digest and dretaiu any
kind of food, and my liver symptoms were
non-existent. The of my nerves*
was promptly checked by Clements Tonic,
and the regulating and strengthening effects
of that medicine on my system generally
were really extraordinary. Every ache and
pain yielded to the pacifying influences of
Clements Tonic, and I am heartily thank-
ful to say that by its exclusive use my
health was re-established. I have lived in
this house for the past 17 years, and all the
neighbours know that Clements Tonic cured
me ; but for the benefit of those who are
unaware of these facts you may publish
them in any form you like.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, William Hbnky Atkins, of 211 Crown-road,
Pyrmont, in the State of New South Wales, Com-
monwealth of Australia, do solemnly and
sincerely declare that I have carefully read
the annexed document, consisting of four
folios and consecutively numbered from one
to four, and that it contains and is a true an.
faithful account of my illness and cure by Clements
Tonic, and also contains my full permission to publish
in any way my statements—which I give volun-
tarily, without receiving an}- payment ; and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the
same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of
the Oaths Act, 1900.
Subscrib'd and declared at Sydney, this,
twentieth day of February, one thousand nine hun-
dred and two, before me,
JNO. C. HALLAM., J.P.
Second
Edition.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER:
Harry Moran t
His ’Ventures,
and Verses.
Price 1/1
Post
Fru
Y By FRANK RBNAR. Y
Edwards, Dualop & Co., Sydney
CLOTHED WITH AIR
AERTEX CELLULAR FABRIC
mended by the Medical Faculty wherever introduced.
is the ideal form of body covering, possessing all the neoes
sary hygienic qualities, and being also most comfortable and'
of attractive appearance, and for those reasons is recom
Aertex Cellular Underwear is a Sure Preventative against p.mii-
Cellular Day Shirts*
Silk neckbands and soft wrists.
White and Self Colors, 4s to 7s 6d
Fancy Designs, 7s 6d to 9s 6d.
Cellular Neglige Shirts,
Soft fronts of plain or pleated
Cellular Cloth ; wrists, French
Print, Linen, or Cellular. Recom-
mended for Golf, Cycling, &c.
White body, 7s 6d ; colored, 8s 9d
Cellular Dress Shirt.
Fitted best Belfast Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 0.8. or 0.F., one stud.
Cellular Cotton Body—
-6s 6d to 8s 6d
Cellular Lisle Body-
Os 6d and 10s 6d
Cellular Short-Front Shirt
for every-day wear.
Open behind, 2in. linen wrists—
-6s 6d, 6s 6d.
Open front or behind, square
cuffs— 6s 6d, 7s 6d
Cellular Tennis Shirt.
With Collar and Pocket. The most
comfortable for all out-door sports
of all kinds. A great variety of
patterns stocked.
Plain Colors, 4s. 6d. to 7s. Gd.
Fancy Designs, 7s. Cd. to lls. 6d.
AERTEX
Cellular Combinations.
High or Low Necks.
s. d
White Ootton, trimmed
Lace 5 6
. White Ootton, trimmed
Embroidery .. .. 7 f
White Ootton, trimmed
Lace _ 9 6
White Lisle, trimmed Em-
broidery 10 6
AERTEX
Cellular Nightdresses.
White Ootton, trimmed
Embroidery .. ..90
White Lisle, trimmed Em-
broidery . 20 0
White Lisle, prettily
trimmed, fine Torchon.. 19 6
HP*!®
Rfjsad
■
i
g m i
WM
Aertex Cellular Chemises,
White Ootton, trimmed Embroidery,
Bs. White Lisle, heavily trimmed
Real Torchon, 14g 6d and 16s 6d.
Aertex Cellular Slip-Bodices-
High or Low Necks. All sizes
to 30in ; large sizes, extra.
White Lisle, trimmed Torchon, 6s 6d and 8s 6d.
Send for Illustrated Price List—Post Free.
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.,
73 & 75 King-St., Sydney.
Sole Agents.-
Aertex Cellular Corsets.
Fitted real Greenland Whalebone.
s. d.
01 Ecru 13in. deep .. . 15 6
02 ~ long waist, 14£in deep 16 6
M White Cotton, 14in., nar-
row spoon busk .. .. 21 0
G White Cotton, 14|in., with
Elastic Supporter .. 24 6
F Ecru, Riding or Cycling.. 12 6
V Cycling, Boned French
Horq, Elastic Hips .. 15 0
HI same shape as Cl, Watch-
spring Steels .. .. 8 6
■
% j. m
mm
m,
j
; H I
’ :i|
m ti mm
m
mm
«*+
\
5
m
s\
mmi
-•r
f.-T
§?“ /• f
ilf V 1
r\
I ■;
Alston’s Patent Steam Windmills.
A T Royal Agricultural Show no difficulty was found in locating this firm’s exhibit, for high above the sky line
wind wheels from 6ft. to 20ft. diameter, mounted on tall steel towers of strength, graceful appearance, and
which were at the same time fit to stand the strongest hurricane, were to be seen doing their work, needing little or
no supervision on the part of their owner. The Alston patent steel windmills contain all the latest improvements, being
fitted with frictionless steel-roller bearings and steel-ball bearing turntables, and therefore run for a long period after
once being oiled. The fame of these mills, which is world-wide, is the result of the constant study and experiment on
the part of Hr. James Alston, of Queen’s-bridge, Melbourne ; he has recently fitted up the largest windmill factory
in the Australian States, to cope with the ever-increasing demand for his particular line of goods. The mills shown
were working pumps of different sizes, suitable for all classes of work, from the supplying of a household to the
flooding of an irrigation field, and when we come to consider the cry from the arid and drought-stricken districts, we
wonder that the sufferers have not availed themselves more of the opportunity of relieving their distress. Mr.
Alston exhibited a collection of pumps and other appliances in connection with the mills, also a collection of patent
steel water-troughs and steel fluming which well repaid inspection. Miles of these flumes and troughs are in use
throughout the States. They are exceedingly simple to erect, the joints being made by simply screwiug up two
nuts. More faithful reproduction of parts enables him, taking into consideration the superior construction, to
defy competition. This exhibit was inspected by thousands. Any State should be proud to claim such an industry
as Mr. Alston successfully manages.
= High-Class Smoking Mixture
ff A em uam -
HAS NO EQUAL IN QUALITY.
mild. mbdixjm. full.
In J-lb. AIK-TIGHT TINS.
Dr. J. A. AUSTIN writes: “ After a long and fruitless quest for an ideal smoking mixture, I have at
last alighted on the famous ‘ ARDATH,’ which is perfectly free from the crudeness and asperities of inferior
tobacco so injurious to the heart and nerves, and renders smoking a harmless luxury.”
S. HOFFHUNG & CO. Ltd., Wholesale Tobacconists,
Wholesale Agents for Australia. and BRISBANE
Sole Manufacturers : ARDATH TOBACCO CO., 44 Worship Street, London, England.


A NATURAL TABLE WATER
From the NATURAL SPRINGS of HELIDON.
Bottled by THE HELIDON SPA WATER CO*, Ltd*, ONLY.
Head Office:
North Quay,
BRISBANE, Q.
Branches:
Bulletin Lane,
SYDNEY, n.s.w.
Robb's Buildings,
Collins Street,
MELBOURNE, V.
—AND—
HELIDON, Q.
mm ...
ili
:
' FROM THE :
Natural Springs of Heudo^
wn • cqVyofahaivSS
*. .jfjfAut.nt f
.V“ Ywfgwguwg
f
f-dn/atfu
*&*#?*•< «*“* C
m *»»(**«& i/./odam,
.jftMnatn 24v/-».»''F<V «/
Agencies:
A. E. &F. TOLLEY, .
Adelaide, S.A.
MEYERS & HARDIE,
Fremantle, W.A.
BURGESS BROS.,
Hobart, Tas.
GEO. H. SCALES,
Wellington, N.Z.
And throughout
Queensland.
This Water is full of sparkling effervescence and is of absolute purity.
None genuine unless the Company’s Trade Marks are on Labels as above,
(Blue Seal with H.S. in gold letters on red streamers on neck of Bottle, and spouting spring
on body of Bottle, with analysis).
THE H ELI DON SPA WATER CO., LTD


ABOUT THIS TIME OF YEAR
Many persons suffer from indecision. It is an
everyday remark that: “ I do so want to give
a little present, but I don’t know what
to get! ”
The apparent difficulty, can be easily surmounted by a visit to the Warehouse of . .
THE BAKER & ROUSE PROPRIETARY, LTD.
3*75 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
where choice can be made from the largest and most varied stock of PHOTOGRAPHIC, PHONOGRAPHIC and OPTICAL supplies in the
Commonwealth. - *» ■ THE LATEST NOVELTIES IN RECENT SHIPfIENTS.
ft
I •(..« -
PREMO ™.
POCO Cameras
IN ALL SIZES AND FITTED
FOR EVERY CLASS OF WORK.
PRICES FROM 25/- to
X ROSS, ZEISS, and
QOERZ=TRI EDER
••• BINOCULARS
The BEST IN THE WORLDI
PRICES FROM . . .
£2 10s. to £l2 12s.
Optical Lanterns
for Oil or Gas
AND ALL
REQUISITES
SLIDES OF
EVERY DESCRIPTION.
Cinematographs and Films.
Edison
Phonographs
Latest Patterns and
Newest Records*
r
Q
:,7<
AT THE^
Baker $ Rouse proprietary
375 GEORGE STREET,
And at MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE, and BRISBANE
SYDNEY
Sir ALL THE YEAR ROUND! FINNEY, ISLES & CO.’S MISSION
Is to SUPPLY the WORLD’S BEST MERCHANDISE in
SOFT GOODS, FURNITURE & FURNISHING GOODS
MOST BROADLY AND ECONOMICALLY
SHOPPING in our line must be done for every house and every individual. Where shall it be done 1 Where is the broadest collection
of merchandise from which to select 1 Where has the most experience and skill been applied in discrimination over its selection ? Where
are goods sold for just what they are, and so trustworthy that no risk to the purchaser remains ? Then where are prices always safely
, i _ i . i)
the lowest possible ?
ii
Is the inevitable reply to each question. Their whole organisation is keyed up to this high standard of excellence and low prices.
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS have the advantage of our EREE POSTAGE SYSTEM, particulars of which, together with SAMPLES,
PRICE LISTS, CATALOGUES, FASHION PLATES for LADIES and GENTLEMEN, etc., etc., are forwarded FREE on
receipt of request. Orders by post are attended to by a large staff of specially-qualified assistants, and customers at a distance may rely
upon being as well served as people on the spot.
Federated Australia we long looked forward to. Now we have it, the vaster market has made the competition keener, and only the best
can survive. Federation is increasing largely our trade, because our assortments of NEW, DEPENDABLE, FASHIONABLE GOODS
are as adequate as those of any other first-class house in Australia, and our prices are fixed on the LOWEST NET CASH BASIS—
They are NOT BEATEN in the Commonwealth !
You may easily prove that it pays to send your ORDERS for Drapery, Clothing and Furnishing to FINNEY’S by
comparing their goods and prices with others. Our FREE FREIGHT RULE applies to all States of the Commonwealth alike.
. . . Send for particulars . . .
CHRISTMAS COMES BUT ONCE A YEAR!
We are ready for early, eager Christmas shoppers—splendidly ready. The Christmas things you and everybody want, and the things
you’ll want when you see them are here. Things you’ve thought of, and some you’ve never dreamed of—SURPRISES ! Usual and
unusual gift things. Even practical things, in the holiday atmosphere already pervading our establishment, become Christmasy, and
will solve many a “ what-to-give ” problem.
IS YOUR HEART BIGGER THAN YOUR PURSE?
Our Store, then, more than any other that we know of is for you.
TOYDOM & DOLLDOU in the BASEMENT!
Here also, is the MAGIC CAYE and the Court of dear, old SANTA CLAUS. Here you will breathe the atmosphere of FAIRYLAND
Land of Gifts and Gladness. Our Usual Small Profits obtain at this time as at all others. No Fancy Prices here because it’s
Christmas. If you cannot call, send for lists and particulars to
Economy’s Headquarters: FINNEY, ISLES & CO., BRISBANE.
With Branch at Maryborough, Q.» and at 27 Milton-street, London, E.C.; with Agencies at Paris and Berlin.


Xmas Presents and New Year Gifts.
A. SAUNDERS, Jeweller.
8/6
A. SAUNDERS.
Marvellously Cheap Reliable WATCHES, Short
wind and Latest Improved, 8s 6d. Trump 10s,
Extra Quality, 12s 6d, 15s, 16s 6d, 18s 6d, 20s
London Lpvor 95s n.nd 80s. All Guaranteed.
10/-
A 1 KEY
FULLOAP,
A. SAUNDERS.
WALTHAM AND ROTHERHAMS, Horsemen,
Bushmen, and Miners' WATCHES. The most
Reliable Levers made. Pure Silver Hunting
Key or Keyless, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, £5,
£6, £7, £B. All Guaranteed 2,3, 4,5, 6 years.
A 1 KEYLESS
LEVEE.
15/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Black Keyless WATCH,
very Reliable and Fashionable.
Keyless Movement, 15s, 17s 6d, £l,
255. Very pretty and effective
Watch. With Written Guarantee
for 12 months.
All Articles Post Free.
Send for Price List.
17 6
lOct.
PATENT,
£4 4s
A. SAUNDERS.
HOLD WALTHAM LEVERS, New Model High
Hrade Works, 10c. Patent Oases, £4 4s. 14ct.
Patent Oases, £5 ss. Highest Grade Works,
£6 10s. Superior Quality, £7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s,
£l5, £l7 10s, £2O, £25, £3O.
lift.
PATENT,
£5 5s
BIA"K OR
NICKEL,
£3 10s
Gent.’s Ist class Fly-back CHRONOMETER, Pure
Silver as above, £5 ss, £6 6s to £lO 10s. In Nickel
or Black as above, £3 10s. Fly-back only, £llos
and £2 2s. Split Second, £3 10s. All Guaranteed
2,3, 4 and 5 years.
IN SOLID
SILVER,
£5 5s
A NICE XMAS PRESENT.
Ladies’ Gold BRACELET, very pretty and fashionable, Gem
Set, 3 Red or Blue Stones, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS. Nice Xmas Present.
Diamond Cluster and Scroll BRACELET, 16c. Gold, £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O. A Large Assortment to pick from.
-A.
s.A.TT:i<r:D:E
LA
Diamond Cut Amethyst Chain BRACELET, Gold Mounted, £4 10s.
Heart Amethyst Padlock, £5 ss.
A. Saunders.
Gold Emu
Charm.
Gold Mizpah
Charm, 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Diamond BRACELET, 15c. Gold, three pure Double Cut Dia-
monds, with Safety Chain, £5. All Articles sent Post Free.
A NICE XMAS PRESENT.
Gold BRACELET, Red Stone and Pearls, £2. Very Effective.
Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
Send for our Complete
Illustrated Catalogue of
XMAS *» NEW YEAR’S PRESENTS.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Motto Registered Gold “ Dinna Forget
BROOCH and Amethysts, 9c. Gold, 17s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 39s ; 18c. Gold, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
Registc red Good Wish Gold BROOCH, 13s 6d
15c. Gold, 255; Silver, 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Opal BROOCH, 20s, 255, 30s, £2.
A Very Pretty Brooch.
Jit,;
A. SAUNDERS.
2-Bar Pure Diamond, Double Cut, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
15c. Solid Gold, Pure Double Cut Diamonds,
3 Sapphires or Diamonds, £lO ;
all Diamonds, £l5.
Gold SLIPPER,
Chain and Nob
and Pin, 6s 6d.
Metal Pin,
5s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Bamboo Gold BRACELET, price according to width, 20s, 255,
30s, £2, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s. 15c. Gold, £3, £4, £5, £6, £7.
Sword and Sheath PAPER CUTTER, 6in. long, 4s 6d.
A Useful Present.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold CHAIN (Single or Double) £3, £3 10s, £4,
£4 10s, £5. 15c. Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6, £6 10s, £7,
£B, £lO. Pure Silver, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Send for Price Illustrated Book.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Long Gold Muff Chains, in every Style and
Pattern made, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5, £5 10s,
£6, £7, £B, £lO. Guaranteed to give Satisfaction.
£4 4s
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ lst-olass Gold Hunting Keyless
WATCHES, in every style of Case.
lOct. Patent Gold Case, f-plate Lever
Movement, £4 4s. 14et. Gold Patent
Cases, £5 ss. Extra Strong Solid Gold
Cases, £6 10s and £7 10s.
14ct. Solid Gold, £8 10s.
ISct. „ „ £lO, £l2los and £l5.
In Solid Silver Cases, £2 10s, £3los, £4.
£5 5s
SILVER,
£2 IGs
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Reliable Gold Keyless WATCH.
In Open Face, £2, £2lO. In Hunting
Cases, £3, £3 10s, £4 4. 14ct. Gold,
£5 5s and £6 6s. 18ct. Gold, £5 10s,
£6 10s, £7 10s to £lO. In Solid Silver,
255, 30s, 355, 40s to 60s.
SOLID
GOLD,
£5
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Heart and Dumbbell
LINKS, 12s 6d. 15ct. 255.
Silver, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Solid Gold Opal LINKS,
with Initial, £2 10s. Extra
Strong.
SEND FOR . . .
PRICE LIST.
Ne.v Peace Offering Twin Dove BROOOH, with
Enamelled Leaf, 17s 6d. 15ct. Gold, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Large Size Gold BROOOH, Diamond Out Amethj'st, 255.
15ct. Gold, £2 ss. Very Strong.
A. SAUNDERS.
2-Bar Gold, Diamond Out Amethyst, 22s 6d.
15ct. Gold, £2. All Articles Sent Post Free.
get
FOl4
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Dinna Forget,
10s 6d. Our Own
Registered Design.
ssl
Gold Mounted,
with 10 Pearls,
Amethyst HEART,
17s 6d.
15ct. Gold, 25a.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ High Grade ROTHERHAM
WATCHES, Solid Gold Cases. 18ct.,
£l2 10s, £l5 and £2O. The best f-plate
English Lever made. Guaranteed for
5 and 6 years.
Gent.’s Single Stone Dia-
mond RING, £2O. Larger,
£25, £3O. Smaller Stone,
±5, £7 10s, £lO, £l5.
A very Handsome Ring.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hand-made WEDDING RINGS and KEEPERS.
9ct. Solid Gold, 7s 6d, 10s each. 15ct. Gold, 15s.
Extra Heavy, 255. 18ct. Gold, 20s. Extra Heavy,
30s, 355, 40s, 50s. Send for Card.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Solid Gold, 5
Pure White Double
Cut Diamonds, £5.
Splendid Value.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Band,
Opal, 17s 6d. 15ct.
Gold 30s. 18ct. Gold
£2.
Send for Size Card.
18ct. Solid Gold
Diamond Band,
£2, £2 10s, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
3 Rubies, Opals, or
Sapphires, with 4
Diamonds, £3,
£3 XOs, £4, and £5.
18ct. Gold 5-hoop.
A very effective
Ring.
9ct. Solid Gold LINKS. Plain,
17s 6d, 20s, 255. 15ct. Gold,
£2, £2 ss, £2los. Monogram,
2s 6d extra.
9ct. Solid Gold LINKS. Extra
Strong and Durable, 22s 6d.
15ct. Gold, £2. In Solid
Silver, 4s 6d.
Gold Pheasant and Orescent BROOCH,
set with Pearls and Turquo'se, 80s.
A distinct Novelty.
Registered Gold SECRET NAME BROOCH.
15ct. Gold, Diamonds, £2 10s, ±3, £4.
Any Name or Motto Free.
Similar Pattern, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Pure 5-Diamond BROOCH,
£4 4s and £5 ss.
Send for our Price List.
A. SAUNDERS.
Newest Solid Gold NAME BROOCH, 7s 6d ;
with Raised Flowers each side (any Name),
15ct. Gold, 15s. Latest Style.
Pure Solid Silver
MEDALS, 3s 6d. Size
Larger, 5s 6d. Gold
Shield, 7s 6d and 10s.
All articles sent post free.
an and inspect the Largest Display of Xmas and New Year’s Goods in Australia.
Sydney’s Leading Watchmaker, Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician,— n
809, 811, 813, 815, 817 George S l -> Sydney
Nearly Opposite Redfern Railway Station-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Solid Gold 3 Dia-
mond and 2 Opal
Hearts, £4 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, 5 Opals,
A-Hoop, £2, £2 10s,
£3, £3 10s.


THE^"
Royal Rank of Queensland [ld.
Incorporated under “ The Companies Act of 1863.”
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - £1,425,000
Capital Paid-up - £451,307
Reserve Liability of Shareholders 181,859
Reserve Fund (invested in Government Stock) 56,000
£689,166
Head Office: Queen Street, BRISBANE.
DIRECTORS :
P. L. CARDEW (Chairman), Th. UNMACK, HERBERT HUNTER, WILLIAM DAVIES.
AUDITORS :
GEO. FRED. SCOTT, 8.A., F.1.A.Q.; C. A. CLARKE, A.A. (Eng.)
SOLICITORS :
Messrs. CHAMBERS, BRUCE & MoNAB.
GENERAL MANAGER : EDWD. D. DAY. ASSISTANT MANAGER : W. B. ALFORD.
BRANCHES'
London Office: 25 ABCHURCH LANE, EC.
LONDON DIRECTORS:
C. SIDEY, 0. S. DICKEN, J. F. ARNOT, H. HALL SMITH (Manager).
BANKERS:
THE LONDON JOINT STOCK BANK LIMITED.
Bundaberg
Charters Towers
Croydon
Gatton
George Town
Gympio
Ipswich
I.aid ley
Lowood
Nanango
Rockhampton
Rosewood
South Brisbane
Stanthorpe
Toowoomba
Warwick
AGENTS:
Ireland—The Bank of Ireland.
Scotland—The National Bank of Scotland Limited,
Edinburgh ; The Caledonian Banking Company
Limited, Inverness.
North op Scotland—The Caledonian Banking Com-
pany Limited, Inverness.
Chicago—First National Bank of Chicago.
New York —The Agents of the Bank of Montreal;
International Banking and Trust Co.; National
City Bank of New York.
Montreal —The Bank of Montreal.
San Francisco—London and San Francisco Bank
Limited.
Germany—Deutsche Bank.
South Africa— The Standard Bank of South Africa
Limited.
Calcutta and Colombo— The Chartered Bank of
India, Australia and China.
New South Wales—The Commercial Banking Com-
pany of Sydney Limited.
Victoria— The Bank of New South Wales.
South Australia— The Bank of New South Wales.
Western Australia— The Bank of New South Wales
New Zealand—The Bank of New South Wales.
Queensland —The Bank of New South Wales; The
Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Ltd.
Tasmania— The Commercial Bank of Tasmania
Limited.
Hons Kong, Singapore, Japan, Manila— Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation.
THE ROYAL BANK OF QUEENSLAND LIMITED allows interest on FIXED DEPOSITS at rates
which can be ascertained on application ; discounts trade paper, makes Advances against approved securities
including Bills supported by Shipping Documents ; issues Drafts and Letters of Credit; collects Interest on
Debentures and Dividends of Public Companies ; invests money in Colonial and other Securities on behalf of
constituents ; and generally transacts all usual banking business
THE BANK OF
NORTH QUEENSLAND
LIMITED.
Incorporated under “ The Companies' Act of 186 S. n
Authorised Capital - £700,000
Capital Paid up - - - - £lOO,OOO
Reserve Fund (in Government Stock) - £13,750
Reserve Liability of Shareholders - £250,000
£363,750
DIRECTORS.
Hon. A. S. COWLEY,
M.L.A., Chairman.
Hon. A. J. THYNNE,
M.L.C.
WM. COLLINS,
Esq.
Auditors— T. B. STEELE, Esq. ;G. O. BEARDMORE, Esq.
Solicitors.
Messrs. THYNNE & MACARTNEY.
General Manager.
J. MACKENZIE LEES.
HEAP OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Manager—J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Accountant —ROBERT R. LOVE.
BRANCHES.
KOnOaOSNITOHJ.
cikvtsi Avcstnm
skhivo
CHILDEIS.
CHARTERS TOWERS.
TOWNSVILLE
MAREEBA.
COOKTOWN.
ROCKHAMPTON,
ATHERTON.
with agency at Ayr).
SYDNEY : 16 BRIDGE STREET.
Manager : J. P. CANNY.
Local Director : JAS. BURNS, Esq.
(Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.).
London— The London and Westminster Bank
Limited.
Scotland— The Bank of Scotland.
Queensland —The Queensland National Bank
Limited.
New South Wales—The Commercial Bank-
ing Company of Sydney Limited.
Victoria —The Commercial Bank of Aus-
tralia Limited.
„ The Colonial Bank of Australasia
Limited.
AGENTS.
South Australia— The Commercial Bank of
Australia Limited.
Western Australia— The Western Aus-
tralian Bank.
Tasmania —The Commercial Bank of Tas-
mania Limited.
New Eank o[ New Zealand
India, China and the East—Hong Kong
and Shanghai Banking Corporation.
Tiie Bank of North Queensland Limited allows Interest on Fixed Deposits at rates which can be
ascertained on application, opens Current Accounts on usual terms, discounts Commercial Paper, makes
Advances against Approved Securities, including Bills supported by Shipping Documents, negotiates and
collects Bills of Exchange, and undertakes all Colonial Banking business.
The Most Reliable Whiskies
in Australia.
Ivercauld
(Scotch) Whisky
Brigadier
(Irish) Whisky
MILD, MELLOW, and MATURED*
AND . . .
“OLD TOH” QIN
Full Information from the
Sole Agents in Australia:
Bennell & Bennell
CREEK STREET, BRISBANE.
Agents in Queensland for—
CREOLIN SHEEP DIP. Samples sent to all parts of Australia—Free.
Ind, Coops, Romford Light, Pale (English) Ale.
THE
‘PLUM’
THE
‘PLUM’
/GENTLEMEN. —This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
like a hell, and never requires grinding. Being practioal tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 78. 6tL
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Price
/Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21*.
/Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30a.
Registered and sent Post Free to ant part op the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? J so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7 ;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia; £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and everv description of vehicles in Stock and made
to Order.' HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE. —Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so; and you pay 15 per
cent, more for your requirements.
193 to 195 Cleveland-streetj Red-fern, SYDNEY
OUB SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
Delivered at any Wharf #r
N.S.W. Kail trays, Station
£lO 10/-
Jewellers t Opticians
90 King ST, Sydney.
JEWELLERY for *
Christmas
Plante
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Limit of space only permits
us to illustrate a few lines
from the many hundreds we
have in stock. So kindly send
for our latest illustrated
sheets of Xmas novelties.
*55-
Cl&ce
Love-Letter Oharm, Silver
Gilt Enamelled, to open,
including name, 6,6.
POST
FREE.
New Gold Good Luck and Merry
Thought Brooch,, Stone-set, 11/6.
POST
FREE.
Gold Bow Brooch, 5/6,
without Heart, 4/-
set with Diam nd
Rubies & Sapphires,
£6 10s.
□
Photo. Pendants.
100 designs. Plain
Gold—6/-, 6/-, 8/, 10/-
to 25/- Pearl Set—
-47/6, 50/- to £lO.
Solid Gold Gem-Set Chain Bangles, in great variety.
40/-, 50/-, 60/-, 70/-, 80/-, to £lO.
Plain Curb Bangles, from 22/6 to £7 10s. Post Free.
1
9ct. Gold
Double Bird
Safety Pins,
without
Hearts,
9/- per pair.
Single Bird, 3/6.
9ct Gold
Double Bird
Safety Pins,
with Amethyst
Hearts, 15/6
per pair.
Single Bird, 5/6.
18ct. Diamond and
Ruby or Sapphire,
JE9.
The “ Nettlefold ” Screw
Cuff Link, Solid Gold,
Extra Heavy.
9ct., 25/-; 15ct., 35/-


New South Wales Government Railways*
YEAR
HOLIDAY EXCURSIONS
TO THE
BLUE MOUNTAINS, JENOLAN CAVES,
Southern Hill District,
Worn bey an Caves, Snowy Mountains,
Illawarra District,
The Hawkesbury River,
The Northern Lakes.
fer.' -e*
mm
'
: - -^ii-
, " <'■
HAWKESBURY RIVER.
HOLIDAYS are valued largely in view of the opportunity they afford for obtaining change of
air and scenery. A solitary day is of small consequence, but almost everyone has a vacation
at Christinas and New Year time ; and good wishes can be best expressed in the hope that
the festive season will enable the reader to “get away” from the surroundings to which his
business and labor have kept him tied for many months past.
The metropolitan, tired with the bustle, the strife, the monotony of city streets, may obtain a
Among the numerous sights are the Sassafras Gully (near Springwood), the Terrace Falls
(near Hazelbrook), Wentworth Falls, Leura Falls, Katoomba Falls, Govett’s Leap, and
many others. Weeks can be spent in this charming district without exhausting the list of scenic and
other attractions. From Katoomba or Mount Victoria a trip may be made to the Jenolan
Caves, the grandest and most extensive in Australia. The Mount Victoria route is the more
favored, for, although the distance is nearly one-third longer, the travelling is easier and the scenery
more varied.
glorious change on the invi-
gorating hill-lops, or on the
sea coast in some quiet sea-
side resort. The inland
dweller finds equally pleas-
ing and healthful variety in
the change to the city or the
seasides. New South Wales
has exceptional advantages
in regard to this compensa-
ting change; it offers facili-
ties, convenient and not
costly, to meet either the
city or country dweller, and
the railway system of
the State will be found to
suit the double bill.
HOLIDAY EXCURSION
TICKETS and a convenient
train service afford abundant
facilities for meeting the re-
quirementsof holiday-makers
both in town and country.
The resident in the metro-
politan district is enabled to
escape for a time from the
routine of city life to the
cool atmosphereof thecharm-
ing mountain region that lies
so close to Sydney, or the
more distant, but still easily
accessible snow country, the
Australian Alps.
Sydney forms the main
starting point for holiday-
makers, most of the leading
pleasure resorts being readily
and cheaply accessible from
the metropolis; but the
system of Holiday Excur-
sion Tickets enables the
country visitors also to visit
the principal beauty spots in
their own districts.
THE NEPEAN RIVER AT PENRiTH.
PI
V
m
'
£
1
II
&
PWBPIHMIi
On the Main Southern
Line is the Southern Hill
District, lying between
Mittagong and Goulburn.
The charm of this district
lies principally in the country
between Bowral, Moss
Vale, and the lUawarra
line— one of the most in-
teresting drives in the State
being that from either
Bowral to Moss Vale to
Biohertson, distant about
16 miles. From Moss Vale
the Fitzroy, the Meryla,
the Belmore, and other
picturesque waterfalls may
be visited, the locality of
which is truly described as
one of the leading beauty
spots of Australia. The most
popular tourist trips through
the Berrima district are those
that cover the road journey
from Bowral or Moss Vale
to Albion Park, Kiama,
or Nowra —railway stations
on the lUawarra line. The
distance is from 30 to 35
miles, but the journey
throughout is through scenes
that are exceptionally pic-
turesque, and §hange in
interest every mile.
• From Goulburn, the
Wombeyan Caves and
2Lake Bathurst can be
visited ; while Cooma is the
starting-point for the Yar-
rangobilly Caves, fairly
rivalling in size and beauty
those of Jenolan, and also for
the Snowy Mountains,
SPECIAL EXCURSION TICKETS to and from Sydney enable most of the pictur-
esque localities within easy reach of the metropolis to be conveniently and economically visited.
The WESTERN LINE, running from Sydney to Bourke, abounds with interesting features.
Passing through one of the most fertile districts of the State, it reaches the Nepean River at
Penrith, 34 miles from Sydney, where a delightful trip can be made up the river to its junction with
>■ Mr
m
mi
* • -tow s ?
•f*.
i9i
*: -4.
•ft
3fcjgf&
11 ) r vffi,t
pH&t ifSpr ’• r -«Vi
ISifevil; •&
v-
' i j
P
US
•:
* ■ i-* ; :•-•»*•*?
' : ■
iia
iP
*
«■ ;•
31
aM
> WV'-: «•
- S '*r
'£: r ' u ‘ «r;
* : '- • V:V’ ' ■
' \::■', :-;■ •'’ ; •/ •
*»-'•« -vI&W * ••
aesj^MSfei^aS
f** V'* i
*£"’ ‘ • **vr '' "
■M
m
-■•-
•-" vsk.
* ~ Ift
wl
•
- o-:*. ' -'.<•.■■■;'»’• *■ ■ r' :
'AW *IP?« - • - n*sfc •i I
jr \ AWmm ’<mm -. .
:&:m
w^mm^
•^.rV%
||MHgr
>■
"•
V
s§ki
FrSfwf
*
ms
&a$
MERY LA VALLEY, near Moss Vale, N.S.W.
t
he Warragamba. Crossing the Nepean and Emu Plains, the Slue Mountains are ascended, and
for many miles the train runs along the summit of the celebrated range. The stoppages being frequent,
the tourist is enabled to select almost any point he may prefer for enjoying the magnificent scenery
by which he is everywhere surrounded. An elevation of 3750 ft. is attained.
with their lofty peaks glistening in the bright sunshine, where, on the summit of Mount Kosciusko,
the visitor may enjoy the refreshing coolness of an Alpine climate during the hottest months of the
year, a pleasure unique in Australian tourist travel.
The NORTHERN LINE also offers many attractions to the holiday-seeker. From Colah to
near the Hawkesbury extends the New National Park, Kurring-gai Chase, in the heart of which
is Cowan Creek, with its unlimited facilities for boating and fishing. Further on is the Hawkes-
bury River —the Queen of Australian streams—on which delightful trips may be made by the
commodious steamer General Gordon. Beyond the Hawkesbury is Woy Woy, a famous fishing
resort, and the Northern Lakes Region— including Brisbane Water, the Tuggerah Lakes
and Lake Macquarie, all of which possess numerous attractions for both tourists and sportsmen,
and are much frequented during the summer months.
The ILLAWARRA DISTRICT, the GARDEN of NEW SOUTH WALES,
with its many enjoyable views of the ocean on the one side, and glimpses of charming regions of fern
and palm on the other, is within easy reach of Sydney. The line skirts the National Park, and,
after passing through several tunnels, reaches the luxuriant semi-tropical country, of which Clifton,
Bulli and Wollongong are the principal points. Further on the line passes Lake Iliawarra,
and through Kiama to Nowra, from either of which two places enjoyable excursions may be made
into the mountainous districts beyond, or by way of Kangaroo Valley to Moss Vale or Bowral.
HOLIDAY EXCURSION TICKETS
Will be issued during the Holiday Season from all stations
to all stations, available for return by ordinary trains until
the 31st January, 1903.
SPECIAL EXCURSION TICKETS
Will be issued during the Holiday by certain specified trains
at 2d. per mile first-class, and Id. per mile second-class return
from Sydney and Suburban Stations to Qoulburn,
Orange, Newcastle, Nowra, and intermediate stations;
and also to Sydney from Orange, Qoulburn, Nowra,
Newcastle, and intermediate stations.
CHEAP INTER-STATE FARES.
Handbills, giving particulars of arrangements, times of
departures, and return of additional trains, etc., can be
obtained at all railway stations, and at the Central Booking
Office, George-street, Sydney.
BY ORDER OF THE COMMISSIONERS.
H. McLACHLAN, Secretary,


V
ft-
c
e
/,
*
1 A
:
C
w
&
♦
C
JAS
v
U«
A)
J)
yfcr
O*
•)
*J
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
HAS THE LARCEST SALE
IH THE WORLD.
IT IS CENUINE BRAHDY.


CHRISTMAS
NUMBER
OF THE
BULLETIN
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 23.—N0. 1191.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 13, 1902.
p B k®6d.
“CLOSE UP MARRY ME, MINE THINK IT!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
•• Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS AFTER
Ist NOVEMBER , 1902
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum, ... ... ••• 6 0
Half-yearly n 7 n
Quarterly ... ... ••• V f U
NOTICE.
Bu sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have Tiib Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Hlaclc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
• — i.e. , any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid,
for as a suggestion only. The under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa — Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal ; Solomon
and Wilson, HZ llout St., Capetown; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
Ceylon. —Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
B.C.
Hono Kono. —Brewer and Co., ZZ Queens Road, Hong
Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Wanking Road, Shanghai.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 13, 1902.
Romance.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THEY say that fair Romance is dead, and
in her cold grave lying low,
The green grass waving o’er her head, the
mould upon her breasts of snow ;
Her voice, they say, is dumb for aye, that once
was clarion-clear and high—
But in their hearts, their frozen hearts, they know
that bitterly they lie.
Her brow of white, that was with bright rose-
garland in the old days crowned,
Is now, they say, all shorn of light, and with a
fatal fillet bound.
Her eyes divine no more shall shine to lead the
hardy knight and good
Unto the Castle Perilous, beyond the dark
Enchanted Wood.
And do they deem, these fools supreme, whose
iron wheels unceasing whirr,
That, in this rushing Age of Steam, there is no
longer room for Her ?
That, as they hold the Key of Gold that shuts or
opens Mammon’s Den,
Romance has vanished from the earth and left the
homes and hearts of men ?
Yea, some there be who fain would see this
consummation sad and drear,
And set their god Machinery with iron rod to
rule the year.
They go their way, day after day, with forward-
staring, famished eyes,
Whose level glances never stray—fixed fast upon
a sordid prize !
The sun may rise in godlike guise, the stars like
burning seraphs shine,
But, ah, for these sad souls unwise, nor Earth nor
Heaven bears a sign.
All visions fair, in earth or air, they gaze upon
with sullen scorn.
God knows His own great business best; He only
knows why they were born.
They never saw, with sacred awe, the Vision of
the Starry Stream
That is the source of Love and Law; they never
dreamt the Wondrous Dream ;
They never heard the Magic Bird, whose strains
the poet’s soul entrance :
Their souls are in their moneybags—what should
they know of fair Romance ?
She still is here, the fair and dear, and walks the
Earth with noiseless feet;
Her eyes are deep, and dark, and clear, her
scarlet mouth is honey-sweet;
A chaplet fair of roses rare and lordly laurel crowns
her head ;
Her path is over land and sea. She is not dead ;
She is not dead.
On roads of clay, ’neath skies of grey, though Fate
compel us to advance,
Beyond the turning of the way there sits and
waits for us Romance.
Around yon cape, of lion-shape, that meets the
wave with lion-brow,
A ship sails in from lands unknown; Romance
stands shining on her prow.
At dead of night, a fiery light from out the heart
of darkness glares;
The engine, rocking in its flight, once more into
the darkness flares;
The train flies fast, the bridge is past; white faces
for a moment gleam—
And at the window sits Romance and gazes down
into the stream.
When first the child, with wonder wild, looks on
the world with shining eyes,
Romance becomes his guardian mild, and tells to
him her stories wise.
And, when the light fades into night, and ended
is this life’s short span,
To other wonder-worlds she leads the spirit of the
Dying Man.
Right grim gods be Reality, and iron-handed
Circumstance.
Cast off their fetters, friend ! Break free ! —and
seek the shrine of fair Romance.
And, when dark days with cares would craze your
brain, then she will take your hand,
And lead you on by greenwood ways unto a green
and pleasant land.
There you will see brave company, all making gay
and gallant cheer—
Blanaid the Fair, and Deirdri rare, and Gold
Gudrun and Guinevere;
And Merlin wise, with dreaming eyes, and Tris-
tram of the Harp and Bow ;
While from the Wood of Broceliande the horns of
Elfland bravely blow.
VICTOR J. DALEY.
A Child in the Dark.—A Bush
Sketch.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
TYrEW Year’s Eve! A hot night in mid-
summer in the drought. It was so dark—
with a smothering darkness—that even
the low loom of the scrub-covered ridges, close at
hand across the creek, was not to be seen. The sky
was not clouded for rain, but with drought haze
and the smoke of distant bush fires.
Down the hard road to the crossing at Pipeclay
Creek sounded the footsteps of a man. Not the
crunching steps of an English laborer, clod-
hopping contentedly home; these sounded more
like the footsteps of one pacing steadily to and
fro, and thinking steadily and hopelessly—sorting
out the past. Only the steps went on. A
glimmer of white moleskin trousers and a sugges-
tion of light-colored tweed jacket, now and again,
as if in the glimmer of a faint ghost light in the
darkness.
The road ran along by the foot of a line of low
ridges, or spurs, and, as he passed the gullies or
gaps, he felt a breath of hotter air, like blasts
from a furnace in the suffocating atmosphere. He
followed a two-railed fence for a short distance
and turned in at a white, batten gate. It seemed
lighter now. There was a house, or, rather, a hut
suggested, with whitewashed slab walls and a
bark roof. He walked quietly round to the door
of a detached kitchen, opened it softly, went in
and struck a match. A candle stood, stuck in a
blot of its own grease, on one end of the dresser.
He lit the candle and looked round.
The walls of the kitchen were of split slabs, the
roof box-bark, the floor clay, and there was a
large, clay-lined fireplace, the sides a dirty brown,
and the back black. It had evidently never been
whitewashed. There was a bed of about a week’s
ashes, and above it, suspended by a blackened
hook and chain from a grimy cross-bar, hung a
black bucket full of warm water. The man got a
fork, explored the bucket, and found what he ex-
pected : a piece of raw corned-beef in water,
which had gone off the boil before the meat had
been heated through.
The kitchen was furnished with a pine
table, a well-made flour - bin, and a neat
safe and side-board, or dresser—evidently the
work of a carpenter. The top of the safe was
dirty—covered with crumbs and grease and tea
stains. On one corner lay a school exercise-book,
with a stone ink-bottle and a pen beside it. The
book was open at a page written in the form of
verse, in a woman’s hand, and headed :
“ MISUNDERSTOOD.”
He took the edges of the book between his fingers
and thumbs, and made to tear it, but, the cover
being tough, and resisting the first savage tug, he
altered his mind, and put the book down. Then
he turned to the table. There was a jumble of
dirty crockery on one end, and on the other, set
on a sheet of stained newspaper, the remains of a
meal —a junk of badly-hacked bread, a basin of
dripping (with the fat over the edges), and a tin
of treacle. The treacle had run down the sides of
the tin on to the paper. Knives, heavy with'
treacle, lay glued to the paper. There was a dish
with some water, a rag, and a cup or two in it—
evidently an attempt to wash-up.
The man took up a cup and pressed it hard
between his palms, until it broke. Then he felt
relieved. He gathered the fragments in one
hand, took the candle, and stumbled out to
where there was a dustheap. Kicking a hole in
the ashes, he dropped in the bits of broken
crockery, and covered them. Then his anger
blazed again. He walked quickly to the back-
door of the house, thrust the door open and flung
in, but a child’s voice said from the dark:
“Is that you, father? Don’t tread on me,
father.”
The room was nearly as bare as the kitchen.
There was a table, covered with cheap American
oilcloth, and, on the other side, a sofa on which a
straw mattress, a cloudy blanket, and a pillow
without a slip had been thrown in a heap. On the
floor, between the sofa and the table, lay a boy—
child, almost—on a similar mattress, with a cover
of coarse sacking, and a bundle of dirty clothes
for a pillow. A pale, thin-faced, dark-eyed boy.
“ What are you doing here, sonny ? ” asked the
father. „
“ Mother’s bad again with her head. She says
to tell you to come in quiet, and sleep on the sofa
to-night. I started to wash up and clean up the
kitchen, father, but I got sick.”
“Why, what is the matter with you, sonny?”
His voice quickened, and he held the candle down
to the child’s face.
“Oh, nothing much, father. I felt sick, but I
feel better now.”
“ What have you been eating ? ”
“ Nothing that I know of; I think it was the
hot weather, father.”
The father spread the mattress, blew out the
candle, and lay down in his clothes. After awhile
the boy began to toss, restlessly.
“Oh ! it’s too hot, father,” he said. “I’m
smothering.”
The father got up, lit the candle, took a corner
of the newspaper-covered “ scrim ” lining that
screened the cracks of the slab wall, and tore it
away; then he propped open the door with a
chair.
‘ ‘ Oh, that’s better already, father ! ” said the
boy.
The hut was three rooms long and one deep,
with a verandah in front and a skillion harness
and tool room, about half the length, behind. The
father opened the door of the next room
softly, and propped that open too. There
was another boy on the sofa, younger than the
first, but healthy and sturdy-looking. He had
nothing on him but a very dirty shirt, a patch-
work quilt was slipping from under him, and most
of it was on the floor ; the boy and the pillow
were nearly off, too.
The father fixed him as comfortably as possible
and put some chairs by the sofa to keep him from
rolling off. He noticed that somebody had started
to scrub this room and left it. He listened at the
door of the third room for a few moments to the
breathing within ; then he opened it gently and
walked in. There was an old-fashioned four-
poster cedar bedstead, a chest-of-drawers, and a
baby’s cradle made out of a gin-case. The woman
was fast asleep. She was a big, strong, and
healthy-looking woman, with dark hair and
strong, square features. There was a plate, a
knife and fork, and egg-shells and a cup and
saucer on the top of the chest-of-drawers; also
two candles, one stuck in a mustard tin, and one
in a pickle bottle, and a copy of “ Ardath.”
He stepped out into the skillion, and lifted some
harness on to its pegs from chaff-bags in the cor-
ner. Coming in again, he nearly stumbled over a
bucket half-full of dirty water on the floor, with a
scrubbing-brush, some wet rags, and half a bar of
yellow soap beside it. He put these things in the
bucket, and carried it out. As he passed through
the first room the sick boy said :
“I couldn’t lift the saddle of the harness on to
the peg, father. I had to leave the scrubbing to
make some tea and cook some eggs for mother,
and put baby to bed, and then I felt too bad to
go on with the scrubbing—and I forgot about the
bucket.”
“ Did the baby have any tea, sonny ?”
“Yes; I made her bread-and-milk, and she ate
a big plateful. The calves are in the pen all right,
and I fixed the gate. And I brought a load of
wood this morning, father, before mother took
bad.”
“ You should not have done that. I told you
not to. I could have done that on Sunday. Now,
are you sure you didn’t lift a log into the cart that
was too heavy for you ? ”
“Quite sure, father. Oh, I’m plenty strong
enough to put a load of wood on the cart.”
The father lay on his back on the sofa, with his
hands behind his head, for a few minutes.
“ Aren’t you tired, father ? ” asked the boy.
“No, sonny, not very tired ; you must try and
go to sleep now,” and he reached across the table
for the candle and blew it out.
Presently the baby cried and in a moment the
mother’s voice was heard.
“ Nils ! Nils ! Are you there, Nils ? ”
“Yes, Emma.”
‘ * Then for God’s sake come and take this child
away before she drives me mad ! My head’s
splitting ! ”
The father went in to the child and presently
returned for a cup of water.
“She only wanted a drink,” the boy heard him
say to the mother.
“Well, didn’t I tell you she wanted a drink?
I’ve been calling for the last half hour, with that
child screaming and not a soul to come near me,
and me lying here helpless all day and not a wink
of sleep for two nights.”
“ But, Emma, you were asleep when I came in.”
“ How can you tell such infernal lies? I .
To think I’m chained to a man who can’t say a
word of truth ! God help me! to have to lie
night after night in the same bed with a liar ! ”
The child in the first room lay quaking with
terror, dreading one of those cruel and shameful
scenes which had made a hell of his childhood.
“Hush, Emma !” the man kept saying. “Do
be reasonable. Think of the children. They’ll
hear us.”
“I don’t care if they do. They’ll know soon
enough, God knows ! I wish I was under the
turf ! ”
“ Emma, do be reasonable.”
“ Reasonable!—I .”
The child was crying again. The father came
back to the first room, got something from his
coat pocket, and took it in.
“Nils ! are you quite mad, or do you want to
drive me mad ? Don’t give the child that rattle !
You must be either mad or a brute, and my
nerves in this state. Haven’t you got the slightest
consideration for .”
“It’s not a rattle, Emma, it’s a doll.”
‘ ‘ There you go again ! Flinging your money
away on rubbish that’ll be on the dustheap to-
morrow, and your poor wife slaving her finger-
nails off for you in this wretched hole, and not a
decent rag to her back. Me, your clever wife that
ought to be . Light those candles, and bring
me a wet towel for my head. I must read now,
to try and compose my nerves, if I can.”
When the father returned to the first room, the
boy was sitting up in bed, looking deathly white.
“Why! what’s the matter, sonny?” said the
father, bending over him, and putting a hand to
his back.
•‘Nothing, father. I’ll be all right directly.
Don’t you worry, father.”
“ Where do you feel bad, sonny?”
“In my head and stomach, father; but I’ll be
all right d’rectly. I’ve often been that way.”
In a minute or two, he was worse.
“ For God’s sake, Nils, take that boy into the
kitchen, or somewhere,” cried the woman, “or
I’ll go mad ! It’s enough to kill a horse. Do you
want to drive me into a lunatic asylum ? ”
“Do you feel better now, sonny?’’asked the
father.
“ Yes, ever so much better, father,” said the
boy, white and weak. “I’ll be all right in a
minute, father.”
“You had best sleep on the sofa to-night,
sonny. It’s cooler there.”
“No, father, I’d rather stay here; it’s much
cooler now.”
The father fixed the bed as comfortably as he
could, and, despite the boy’s protest, put his
own pillow under his head. Then he made a fire
in the kitchen, and hung the kettle and a big
billy of water over it. He was haunted by
recollections of convulsions amongst the children
while they were teething. He took off his boots,
and was about to lie down again when the mother
called :
“ Nils ! Nils ! Have you made a fire ? ”
“Yes, Emma.”
“ Then for God’s sake make me a cup of tea. I
must have it after all this.”
He hurried up the kettle—she calling every few
minutes to know if “that kettle was boiling yet.”
He took her a cup of tea, and then a second*
She said the tea was slush, and as sweet as syrup,
and called for more, and hot water.
“How do you feel now, sonny?” he asked as
he lay down on the sofa once more.
“Much better, father. You can put out the
light now if you like.”
The father blew out the candle and settled back
again, still dressed, save for his coat, and presently
the small, weak hand sought the hard, strong,
horny, knotted one; and so they lay, as was cus-
tomary with them. After a while the father
leaned over a little and whispered :
“Asleep, sonny?*’
“No, father.”
“ Feel bad again ? ”
“No, father.”
Pause.
“ What are you thinking about, sonny? ”
“Nothing, father.”
“But what is it? What are you worrying
about? Tell me.”
“Nothing, father, only—it’ll be a good while
yet before I grow up to be a man, won’t it,
father ? ”
The father lay silent and troubled for a few
moments.
“Why do you ask me that question to-night,
sonny ? I thought you’d done with all that. You
were always asking me that question when you
were a child. You’re getting too old for those
foolish fancies now. Why have you always had
such a horror of growing up to be a man ? ”
“ I don’t know, father. I always had funny
thoughts—you know, father. I used to think that
I’d been a child once before, and grew up to be a
man, and got old and died.”
“You’re not well to-night, sonny—that’s what’s
the matter. You’re queer, sonny; it’s a touch of
sun—that’s all. Now, try to go to sleep. You’ll
grow up to be a man, in spite of laying awake
worrying about it. If you do, you’ll be a man all
the sooner.”
Suddenly the mother called out:
“Can’t you be quiet? What do you mean by
talking at this hour of the night ? Am I never to
get another wink of sleep ? Shut those doors,
Nils, for God’s sake, if you don’t want to drive
me mad—and make that boy hold his tongue ! ”
The father closed the doors.
“Better try to go to sleep now, sonny,” he
whispered, as he lay down again.
The father waited for some time, then, moving
very softly, he lit the candle at the kitchen fire,
put it where it shouldn’t light the boy’s face, and
watched him. And the child knew he was watch-
ing him, and pretended to sleep, and, so pretend-
ing, he slept. And the old year died as many old
years had died.
The father was up about four o’clock—he worked
at his trade in a farming town about five miles
away, and was struggling to make a farm and a
home between jobs. He cooked bacon for break-
fast, washed up the dishes and tidied the kitchen,
gave the boys some bread and bacon-fat, of which
they were very fond, and told the eldest to take a
cup of tea and some bread and milk to his mother
and the baby when they woke.
The boy milked the three cows, set the milk,
and heard his mother calling :
“Nils! Nils!”
“Yes, mother.”
“ Why didn’t you answer when I called you?
I’ve been calling here for the last three hours. Is
your father gone ? ”
“Yes, mother.”
“Thank God! It’s a relief to be rid of his
everlasting growling for a day or two. Bring me
a cup of tea and the Australian Journal, and
take this child out and dress her; she should have
been up hours ago.
And so the New Year began.
HENRY LAWSON.


The Faded Flame-Tree.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
LONG ago a man and his wife settled in
Illawarra. They chose lightly-timbered
country, and this the man set to clear with
blade and flame. From the clean, sweet timber of
mountain ash he built a house, and the stringy-
bark gave him roofing. Then he rung the out-
lying timber, and when the trees sucked no longer
and the grass grew tall he stocked his lands.
The man’s name was John Carson ; the woman’s
Bertha. Though population was scant, travellers
and teamsters were not rare visitors at Carson’s
selection, and it gradually became noised that they
were hospitable people. Something more, how-
ever, went with the words of good report, and one
day Carson rode to town and heard his wife’s
name smirched beyond doubt. He returned with
downcast eye and a face pale as oak-ashes. He ate
his dry damper and dried meat, and these went
slowly down his throat.
Bertha sat opposite, sewing. She was fair,
with large eyes and red lips, but there was some-
thing in her face which should have warned the
man to repose no trust in her. Hers was the
type that uses many men and loves none. Still,
Carson loved her, and with little wonder. His
first 20 years had been spent in the tame, color-
less solitude of a bush home. He had seen few
women during that period, and they were so
negatively-natured as hardly to disturb his in-
difference. Bertha’s beauty had burst upon him
with the force of a revelation, and, though he had
heard hints of a questionable past, he married her
and hoped for amendment. Now the dream was
in pieces.
As he faced the woman a dark thought was
forming in his brain. His hands clenched and
opened, and at unwary moments a sense of loss
dimmed his eyes. Something spurred him to end
at once her beauty and her faithlessness. And,
when the thought was strangled, it was not her
beauty that had saved her, nor the love that she
had maimed. Nature’s hand and her condition
withheld the man from violence.
In time two children were born. They were
boys, strong and healthy, and Bertha looked at
them and smiled drearily, for jhe was hardly as
other women. In her thougljs and actions Self
played a master hand. She met unclouded suns
with a placid face. But she had moments of tur-
bulence. Inescapeable care and physical pain con-
vulsed her as an earthquake might shake the
waters. Then tortuous thoughts that were like
serpents heaved upwards and crawled on the sur-
face. At such times she saw clearly the shallows
and the deeps of existence. It was hard to say
what shape her soul might assume, if care, and age
and pain sat down to model.
The window of her room was swung wide on its
hinge, and she looked out at the sunny land and
the dead gum-trees, and far away a flame-tree
dropped sparks of fire.
With the two strangers had come a sense of
responsibility that tired and irritated her. She
closed her eyes and slept, wishing, perchance, that
she could close other eyes on other scenes.
Wflen she woke Carson was near, bending over
the infants and peering into each small face with
an eager look. She saw a shadow and a hardness
gather in his eyes, and shivered as he turned on
her.
.Then he named a doubt and waited.
She answered with an effort, and asked for
reasons. He recalled what she had been before
their marriage. She replied that he had not been
bhnd, that God had given him his eyes to see.
THE IDEAL AND THE REAL.
MISS DOLITTLE : “ Country life must he, don’t you know, simply de-light-ful—so full of—ah—
changes. lam sure you find it so, Mr. Dobbs.”
MR. DOOBS. : Well, yes. Miss. I works from jackass to jackass, eats and sleeps, and on
Sundays, for a change, washes and cleans up for next week.”
W H at men S her ;, ShQ laUghed
sceptically, and answered that all unattainable
grapes were sour. en, when she saw that he
remained hard and unconvinced, she turned and
hid her face in the pillow.
Thereupon Carson laid a nervous hand on her
shoulder, with a grasp that suggested violence,
but stopped at the suggestion. “ I gave you a
home, he said, and a love that was better than
„°p e '. ,? V f een a du P 0 '
Perhaps, she answered.
I could curse you!”
“I am cursed,” she said, looking up at him.
In what wise . ,he replied, wondenngly.
These children, she answered; “theycrys-
a soul.
o not understand
The woman rose and threw her yellow hair
back, as though it had been a vanity. “Why
id Cod give me two . she said slowly; “I who (
know so little how to deal with one. Carson, I
have been thinking.”
“ Thinking !” the man repeated ; “of what ? ”
“ That into one small body went all my sins,
and into the other ” —she paused, and Carson with
a cruel smile finished the sentence.
“All your virtue —his burthen will not weary
him.”
“True,” she answered ; “’tis an idle fancy.”
Carson laughed hysterically and pointed to the
small pink faces. “Which,” said he, “contains
your virtues ? ”
“This child with dark eyes. Hold him up, and
you will sde how clear they are and full of light.”
“ So —and the other ? ”
“It has blue eyes, and is most like me without
—why not within ? ”
Carson was silent, musing a while. “If this
were anything butt a fancy,” he said at length,
“you might end your sins suddenly.”
Catching the meaning of his words, she looked
at him darkly.
“ Let him who made me end them. The blue-
eyed child shall live.” But when she was strong
again these thoughts fell away. In her nature
light and gloom were never housemates. One
left when the other entered. With insidious
artfulness she re-won Carson’s love. When youth,
and beauty, and coiled cunning work together
they lightly achieve a man’s undoing. But his
confidence she could not win. And the man was
so fashioned that love without confidence seemed
to him a h .ir-suspended sword. All day he
brooded on her beauty, wistful of another beauty
that she had missed. In time this developed a
desire that influenced their lives.
They named the children curiously, calling the
fair child Esau and the dark one Jacob. As these
grew they manifested an antipathy of tastes as
though tenanted by alien angels, Day and the
sun were fair to Jacob; night and the dark seas
won Esau’s blue-eyed wonder. When they were
four years old drought came on the land.
All through the winter an incessant West wind,
cold and dry, swept from the plains across The
Great Dividing Range, and so to the sea. It was
accompanied by clouds of smoke from burning
country, and drizzled a fine rain of ashes along
the seaboard. Acrid fumes, released from the
eucalyptus in its slow burning, teased the
throat and irritated the vexed nerves. The sun,
deadly red as burnished copper, peered through a
shifting veil and set early behind a lifted horizon
of smoke. Ships from California and Maoriland,
bearing up from the East, hung in the wind and
waited for the strange fog to lift. Mariners re-
ported the shore-line of New South Wales as a
long, crimson edge. The fire stained white beaches
red, and turned the surf from pearl to ruby.
On the heels of all this came Spring. But the
gum-tree drooped no long blossoms and the wattle
showered no golden rain. It was a barren, bitter
season, alternating tropic heat with Arctic cold.
The continent yearned for rain, but skies were
cloudless and gave no promise. Then came Sum-
mer with its merciless temperatures. Birds fell
from the telegraph lines, horses died in their
traces, and men shaded their eyes and gasped for
breath in the blinding yellow glare, West and
north-west opened furnace-doors and released a
red wind. Growling thunder and dry storms
drifted seaward.
It went hard with Carson in that day of desola-
tion. Though the fire avoided his holding—doing
little damage to grass and fences—it teased him
with endless threatening, necessitating an alert-
ness that fretted the brain. Ceaseless vigil ren-
dered him half distraught. A different, darker
worry was with him always.
one day he came with burnt beard and
crisp hair, for flames had licked him at a boundary
fence. Bertha was absent, and he lit his pipe and
waited. She returned late in the eveningf dressed
in a manner suited to her beauty. He ££T£
.eyes and forgot a reproach. She stood near him
smiling calmly and waiting for an inquiry as To
her absence. But the man was silent, fearing a
cruel truth, or an equally cruel lie. After this he
led a restrained, subdued existence, meeting men
with an averted face, lest they should insult him
with their pity.
One December night he left the house, and,
lying on the grass, listened to the voices of the
bush and the murmur of the sea. A solitary
mopoke moaned in the distance, and curlews
called plaintively. From the darkness overhead
came down the faint clangour of black swans fly-
ing north to a small lagoon. Then an awful lone-
liness laid white fingers on his heart and ohilled it.
RINGS ARK FLAT (Q.) DIVISIONAL BOARD MEETING.
NEW-CHUM CLERK (from town): “Mr. Chairman, I would like to ask if there is a quorum
present.”
CHAIRMAN (with dignity): “ Young man, Oi'll hov ye ondersthand that we’re all Oirishmen,
barrin ’ Mr. M‘Lavish, who is a furriner.”
He turned slowly and looked up through the
warm dusk to find sudden gates open. The stars
hung wild and beautiful. They spoke of beauty
and pureness in one. They spoke also of remote-
ness, of infinite distance, but that the man failed
to note. He heard what they said, and resolved
on a sacrifice.
Meanwhile unquiet instinct whispered to Bertha
that trouble neared. She noticed that Carson
brooded constantly, and caught at intervals fierce
furtive glances that frightened her. As usual he
left the house at morning, axe on shoulder and
pipe in mouth, but through the day no sound of
falling blade greeted her from the distant trees.
Unbroken silence reigned on Carson’s selection,
and echo slept in its stony caves. The end came
shortly.
One afternoon he appeared suddenly at the
door, and stood looking in at her. She was iron-
ing linen, and noticed his shadow on the floor.
Then, when the shadow did not move, she looked
up and saw his white, drawn face. The children
were singing, and she bade them be silent. “Put
away your work,” the man said—“ I have a word
to say to you.”
There was the calmness of repressed rage in
his voice, and the woman obeyed him.
“That is right,” he continued. “Now listen :
we must part.”
She started, and slowly wound her hands in a
linen cloth.
“ How ? ” she inquired.
“You will go out of that door, and I out of this
one. We will not turn or look behind, but go
straight away.”
“Nonsense,” she said in a half-voice.
“Sense,” he replied—“we were not fashioned
for each other.”
She wrung the linen still more tensely, and the
veins of her hands swelled up in blue distinctness.
“ Is there no way but that ? ” she said.
She followed the man’s glance, and shuddered
at the glitter of the axe-blade.
He noticed her distress, and greeted it with a
laugh that was strangely like a sob. “Do you
consent ? ”
“ I do,” she answered ; “ but are you mad ? ”
“’Twas you and your sins made me so,” he
replied. “Put on your hat and get what things
you desire. I will do the same.”
She went, and gathered a gold pin, a locket and
a watch of antique pattern. Then she made a
bundle of her gowns and laces, and tied it with a
broad riband. One faded silk dress she left be-
hind for the moths and mildew to banquet on
when the faint lavender should have failed.
Long before she was ready the man stood at, the
door, waiting to go. As she rose from her prepara-
tions, flushed with excitement, he swiftly turned
his eyes from her face and set his jaw squarely.
“ I have sold the stock,” he said; “on the table
is your share.”
She turned, and eagerly raised the chamois bag.
“ How much is here ? ”
He named the sum—a large one.
“ So much ?—how good .”
“ Hush !” he interrupted, “no hypocrisy. Be
careful—it may have to last you a long time.”
A slight smile curved her lips and vanished. It
might have meant two things—carelessness as to
her future social state, or confidence as to her
power to survive. To Carson, it meant neither,
simply adding a new charm to her beauty and an-
other pain to his sacrifice.”
“ May have to last me ! ” she said, repeating his
words; “ then this parting is not final ? ”
“Not necessarily,” he answered; “we may
meet again.”
“ When ?” she replied.
“ When your sins are dead.”
His words reminded her, and she glanced to-
wards the children. “ I forgot,” she said, “ how
are they to manage ? ”
“I will take one,” the man replied, “you the
other.”
“Which ?” she replied.
“ Choose first,” he said—“ it is your right.”
“Then I choose Esau.”
“ As I thought—you love your sins.”
The woman raised her chin and laughed in hard
mirth. “A long life for a silly fancy,” she said ; ■
I forgot it years ago. But, to the present—you
will take Jacob ? ”
Yes. I will think of the silly fancy, and he
will remind me of what you never had, and so I
shall forget you.”
The woman answered woman wise. She raised
her eyes and looked beyond him to where the
flame-tree fired the distance. Behind its crimson
clustering, dead trunks grouped, and at their rear
rose a green hill swathed in dusty, golden light.
The glow came back on her cheeks and eyes, and
made her a fascinating picture. The man eyed
her longingly, knowing he had spoken a vain word.
Then, as their glances met, she felt that she had
fixed an image.
“ Your mind is resolved,” she said ; “ you will
not regret this step ? ”
“No,” he answered, with an effort. “ I think
not. I will try not to, at any rate.”
“ And we shall meet again ? ”
“Yes, when your sins have passed from you.”
“And my beauty is faded,” she added. “ You
are a wise man.”
Then she took Esau’s hand, and he Jacob’s, and
she passed through the door. They did not close
the house, nor did the woman look behind. But
at a great distance Carson stopped a moment to
glimpse a grey figure on the red road, and then,
with downcast eyes, walked on.
When the man and woman were gone the scene
fell asleep. The sun crept up to the roof-tree of
the house, and the fire burnt on its hearth and
went-out. Later, a rising star looked in at one
door, and a setting star at the other. Then from
the feet of dead trees and silent bush-land a
shadow slowly lengthened out and wrapped the
deserted walls. It was the spirit of loneliness
returning to its primal home.
Not long after, an opossum, prowling in the
moonlight, found the empty house, and made a
nest in the roof. The young rye, growing green
in a paddock, was not destined to mature. A
hundred wallabies came bounding from the hills
at twilight and cropped it close. The fences
tumbled in, and there ran a green reassertion of
Nature through the land. The wild hop lifted its
leafy stem, and the living stump sent forth green
suckers. Hares and quail haunted the grasses in
the vicinity of the house. The slab walls warped
and shrunk and opened a hundred mouths at the
bidding of sun and rain. The bark sheets that
made the roof became loose, and flapped a welcome
to the south wind.
Meanwhile the man went north, and sought to
drown remembrance in the sweat of his brow.
But the woman’s empire remained unshaken.
The beauty of her face ever haunted him ; still he
kept faith with his resolve to live with her no
more till she had shed the scales of sin, and stood
forth white in man’s beholding.
When two years passed he was on the point of
writing to her, but at this time Jacob died, and
he regarded it as a peculiar sign that the hour was
not ripe.
Another two years passed, and still her beauty
had not faded from him in any little sense. One
night, under the sting of heart-torture, he wrote
to her in this wise—“ Does Esau live?” An
answer was not long in coming. It was brief—
“ He lives and thrives.”
This indeed was true and was not true. Esau,
the child, was dead, but the dark thing that Esau
typified still existed. A fatal unity is said to link
twins together. They face the lights together,
and, when one goes into the dark, it often happens
that the other follows with immediate feet. So,
when Jacob died in the North, it was not strange
that Esau should fade in the South.
Bertha’s freedom delighted her. She went the
round of gaiety, and was happy. If care visited
her, she closed her eyes and discomfited him.
Existence seemed a butterfly, never shedding its
satin wings to crawl in dust. The years, moving
funereally for Carson, danced for her. In her
youth, she did not dream of age, in her beauty, of
ugliness, in her sin, of remorse. She was no longer
dragged to earth by domesticities, but seemed a
sweet free trinity of youth and sin and beauty.
At regular intervals she received a reminder
from the man. It ran always, “Does Esau live?”
and she answered on tinted paper, “ He lives and
thrives.”
At length age came to the man, and age and
sickness to the woman. She rose from her bed,
pale and hollow-eyed, and her beauty sadly
wrecked. Then she became a Magdalen.
Carson did not know this change. Her image
was one of perpetual beauty to his memory.
Time did not frost the gold or steal the sweetness
of the woman he remembered. But time might
quench her illicit Area and make her fair within


as without. Late in life, he wrote to her again,
putting the old question. Then, the bees being
gone from the honeyless flower, she pitied him
and pitied herself. She replied, “ Esau is dead.”
Thereupon Carson blessed God, and appointed
a time and place.
* * • *
The place was the selection, and the time
drowsy noon. A golden stillness lay among the
trees and in the near hills. Few birds moved,
leaves hung listless, and, at intervals only, a black
cicada shrilled a sleepy note. The door of the
deserted house hung dejectedly on its hinges, and
the sunlight fell through the broken roof and
made a golden square on the floor. On the hearth
lay a half-burnt log and some ashes that the sun
and rain had caked. A bat slept in the corner,
and an opossum on a cross-beam.
And now, a woman in grey trod the dead wood
and approached the house. She came slowly,
blind to everything but an inward vision. A
bramble caught in her skirt, but she did not pause
to release it. A wattle in rebound struck her in
the face, but she felt no pain. At length she
stood at the very doorway, whence the same
woman, and yet another, had taken departure
years before. That event was so dim and distant
it seemed another life.
She saw a face at the other door—a man’s face,
thin and wrinkled. His head was pushed forward
and his eyes fiercely eager. She advanced a step,
as if to meet him, but he stood motionless. Her
first act now was sister to her last act when they
stood thus before. She looked above his shoulder
and beyond him. But the vista had changed. In
the distance no flame-tree lifted red foliage. In-
stead, a blasted trunk threw out white arms and
leafless twigs.
She shuddered at the pointed finger.
All the while the man watched her. Something
was slowly leaving him that he would have
had stay. Was it the image fixed so long agone ?
At length he spoke.
“ Are you the woman I loved ? ”
“I am. Am Iso cruelly changed that you do
not know me?”
He advanced and looked at her searchingly. “ I
half believe you lie, and yet your eyes are the
ghosts of hers.”
“Time works changes,” said the woman.
“ It has stolen your beauty.”
She wrung her hands and laughed in bitterness.
“I told you how ’twould be,” she said, “ when we
parted.”
The man stood very still, untroubled by her
laughter. “ You are changed woefully,” he said,
and it touched the woman somewhat to note how
his mind so painfully hovered round the thought
of her vanished beauty.
“Still, I am what you desired.”
He shook his head in doubt.
“No, no ; you are not.”
“I am sinless now,” she said.
“ Where is your beauty ?” he replied.
She looked at him and sneered. “So you were
but half wise,” she said; “you threw away the
attainable to catch at a star. You would see the
two sides of the moon at once. My youth and
beauty were nothing because I was not morally
perfect. You h« ve lost much, and what have you
gained ? ”
“Nothing, and you have lost my love.”
“That is as it should be,” she replied. “Per-
haps I never desired it. But you were the dreamer
—not I. The wine went out in vapor before your
eyes. I drained it and it flushed my blood.”
“lam cold,” the man answered.
She looked towards the hearth, and an image
struck her. “There,” she said, “is a half-burnt
log. Do you remember when it was red ? No.
But I do. Do you remember what it heated ?
No, again. Your memory is faded. Well, it was
the iron that stands here.” She paused, and
pointed to the iron that she had relinquished
years before.
“I do not understand,” said the man ; “ only I
know your beauty has faded.”
“ The fire is out and warms nothing,” she con-
tinued in hollow notes. “The iron is cold and
fretted with rust. Now, how is it with your
heart ? ”
“I understand,” said the man nodding slowly ;
“ the beauty that kindled it with love has van-
ished, and it is cold, too. As you say, I grasped
at too much. lam a fool.”
“ You were a fool. You are wise now. Your
eyes are open.”
“I wish they were blind,” he answered, “and
that I could see you as I saw you before this
meeting.”
The woman’s heart melted, and she advanced a
step, but the man recoiled.
“ Why do you remain at such a distance ? ” she
asked. “ I did as you bade, and I am white in
man’s beholding.”
“ You are a mockery,” he replied. “Go away !
Time has murdered your image. I came here in
rich anticipation and I meet with ashes and regret.
Go away! ”
“Farewell, then,” said the woman. “Youth and
beauty are seldom linked with goodness. When
they meet, it is not a woman but an angel that
they make. And who is worthy of an angel ? ”
“I do not care for your words,” the man
answered querulously; “ you have cheated me and
lost my love.”
“Peace,” said the woman—“ and I have found
it.”
Then they looked each other in the eyes a last
time and passed into the sunlight.
RDERIC QUINN.
*The Bulletin Story Book (price ss.
post-free from The Bulletin office) has been
everywhere hailed as by far the best book of
Australian stories and sketches yet published.
All the best-known Australian writers, for the
last ten years, are represented; and, both for
interest and literary value, the selection is un-
surpassed in this country.
“Hadji Mactavish.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AJAVANE3E girl came in to buy slippers.
A well-featured, wicked-eyed jade she
was, with polished brown arms peeping
from the sleeves of her white kabaya, and a glare
of scarlet petals against the ebony blackness of
her top-knot. Her hand touched the Hadji’s as
he handed her the change, and I fancied that her
roguish laugh found a shadow of response some-
where in the recesses of his portentous beard.
But it never got further, and the girl, glancing
back as she passed out, might as well have been
smiling at a graven image.
This was all very well, but I had seen the swift
glimmer of paper passed from the girl’s hand to
his, and Hadji Benazan, as he sat down again
upon a pile of Samarang mats, looked hard into
my face.
“It is written,” he said—answering what he
saw there —“that rash judgments are the devil’s
nets 1 ”
“ Well, I don’t think he’s caught me in one of
them ! It’s no rash judgment to say that your
fair friend does no discredit to your taste ! ”
Benazan stroked his beard, and a twinkle came
into his eye. Curiously ample, the one, I thought,
and curiously blue the other —for a full-blooded
Arab. But his skin was bronzed enough for any-
thing, and his English too elaborately fractured
to be here conveniently reproduced.
THE SOFT ANS WEE.
THE OLD MAID: “It must be an awful worry to look after such a big family of small children.”
THE MARRIED WOMAN: “ Yes; but it must be a greater worry to look after all the men and
never be able to get one.”
“Women,” he quoted again, “are the gifts of
Satan ! ”
“For which gifts,” I answered, “some of us
appear not altogether ungrateful considering
that we’ve been to Mecca in our time, and kissed
the Kaaba, anl all the rest of it! ”
“The Kaaba ! What do you call the Kaaba?”
“ The sacred stone, isn’t it ? The huge black
stone that fell from Heaven in Mahomet’s time.”
“The sacred stone” —the Hadji betook himself
to a cigar and the Arabic tongue—“was wor-
shipped of the heathen ages before Mahomet’s
time. Also, it is not ‘huge’; no larger is it
than the head of a man. Also, the Kaaba is not
the stone ; it is the building which hath the stone
fixed in its wall. Truly, my son, thine ignorance
is as a tower upon the sea-shore.”
“It does seem pretty tall ! ” I acknowledged,
when I had slowly gathered his meaning. “But
you don’t say the thing didn’t fall from heaven. ”
“Because I cannot say it”—Benazan slipped
back into English—“ nor can any other man.
Likely enough the stone is a meteorite; it’s a
piece of basalt, anyhow ! ”
Basalt! I wondered so hugely what manner of
Arab it might be who talked thus that I forgot
to answer him, until he laughed at me with most
un-Oriental heartiness—then recollected himself,
put on an extra layer of solemnity, and got up to
serve a fuzzy-tailed Chinaman with fish-hooks. ■
“But don’t you think,” I asked, when the
dungaree-dressed pagan had departed, “ that it’s
a great slur upon Mahometanism that it should
so deeply reverence a relic of heathenism ? ”
The Hadji took off his fez and pointed to it.
“That,” said he, “is heathenism. This,” and he
touched the tassel, “is all the rest! Mahome-
tanism, Judaism, Christianity—are but the tassel
on the fez. In paganism they have their root,
and paganism permeates them all. The steeple
of your Christian churches, for instance, is not,
as you are pleased to imagine, the heaven-pointing
finger—it is neither more nor less than the im-
memorial phallic emblem !”
“ Immemorial phallic emblem ! ” Was I in a
Javanese town —in a shop like a bit of the Arabian
Nights—-listening to a long-bearded ancient, who
might have been one of the Brothers of the
Barber ?
“Hadji Benazan,” I said, as I got up, “it’s too
much ! Pardon me ; I must go and walk round a
bit, to make sure that I am I, and that you are
you.”
He followed me to the door. “The truth
should offend no man,” he said.
“Offend? Oh, about the church-steeple. My
good Benazan, th.at doesn’t concern me. I m only
about as much of a Christian as you—l begin to
suspect —are of a Mussulman 1 ”
» • * *
“They don’t like white men poking about,”
Schuyten said; “and they’re pretty ready with
the kris hereabouts. But they’re afraid to go near
the place at night themselves ; so, if you’ll come
up to the fort and dine with me, I’ll go with you,
and we’ll have a look round by moonlight. You’ll
say it’s one of the rummiest concerns you ever
came across ! ”
From which unclassical locutions it will be
evident that Lieutenant Scliuyten’s relations
with the English language were intimate enough
to put no strain upon my slender knowledge of
his mother-tongue.
• * * *
“Up, now, by this werengen !” Schuyten said.
“ The epitaphs and things will be as plain as in
daylight.”
In a moonlight by which you could easily have
read a newspaper, we scram tiled from the rugged
old tree on to the massive wall, let ourselves
down on the other side by the tough creepers that
clothed the stone, and stood within the ancient
cemetery of Jafattam.
Astonished, I looked around. Completely
paved witli gravestones though the place was, it
hadn’t the area of a fair-sized church. “ Why,” 1
said, “ it isn’t 50 yards square ! ”
Schuyten produced a goodly flask. “Take a
fortifier?” he. said. “There’s a good chance of
fever about this shivery old den. Fifty yards? —
no ! But what do you say to over 1000 such com-
partments ? The whole concern is close on a
mile square! ”
Through a narrow door we passed into another
enclosure, also packed with graves, and then, on
and cn—through doors innumerable—into divi-
sions the inerudite Dutchman could give me no
reason for, and out of which I should have
doubted our ever finding our way, had not the en-
closures been all rectangular and equiinensurate.”
“Except one,” Schuyten told me, as he sat
smoking on the shoulder of a huge sculptured
orang-ciyu, a hideous combination of woman and
prawn —the Javanese notion, I suppose, < f a mer-
maid. “ Tiiere’s a larger division in the centre,
with no graves in it—only a queer old ramshackle
of a building—what intended fori can’t imagine.”
“Sacrifice, most likely,” I said. “This place
long ante-dates the Mahometan invasion. Some
of the later inscriptions, I see, are in the Javanese
square-letter, and a few in Arabic, but the great
majority are in characters I can’t make out, and
probably wouldn’t understand, if I could. Be-
sides
“Shsh !” , , . . .
Schuyten slid from his perch and put his head
on one side. “ Hear anything?” he whispered.
Frogs ! Night-crickets ! An owl! Then .
“ Something like a human voice.” I said.
Schuyten nodded. “Yes, somebody singing,
I fancy. Devilish odd ! Take another nip to
keep you company while X see what this means.
If I should drop across any natives, I’ll be less
likely to get a hole in me than you.”
“Isay, though!”—but the prompt youth had
popped the flask upon a tombstone and was off
through the little door beside me.
I took a not unwelcome swig, and sat smoking
and listening till I discovered that I didn’t alto-
gether relish being a solitary exception to the
multitudinous deadness around me. Then I got
up, and met Schuyten—struggling with suppressed
laughter.
“Come !” he whispered rapidly. “In the cen-
tral court! Come on —quickly as you can ! That
holy man of yours—Hadji what’s-his-name?”
“ Benazan ? ”
“Yes! It’s he, and Kang Len, the coffee-
dealer ; and —but come on, and see ! ” _
Silently—through half-a-dozen divisions—into a
large enclosure devoid of graves, and planted
with camphor-trees round a squat stone building
with in-sloping walls and small, triangular win-
dows close under its curled up eaves.
Schuyten pulled me into the sharply-cut shadow
of the trees. “What language is that?” he
whispered. “It’s something like English, in
places; but ”
He felt me quivering with laughter. ‘ Some-
thing like English ! ’’—this, in a rasping bass
voice, not undisturbed of hiccups—
Ye may snuffle an’ snivel an’ a’, holy mon !
Ye may snuffle an’ snivel an’ a’;
But the fac’ still remains,
Ye’re a fule for yer pains.
For the warld’s no a bad warld ava’, holy mon !
The warld’s no a bad warld ava’!
“Who’s that?” I whispered, when a gabbling
of women’s voices announced the conclusion of
this precious ditty.
The Dutchman pointed to a tree. I climbed it,
and looked through an unglazed window at a sight
that nearly made me forget to hold on to my
branch.
Lights, flowers, fruits ; bottles and glasses of
every shape and size—the black marble altar bore
now the materials for sacrifice to a more genial
deity than its gloomy, old-time rites had ever
known. The reverend Benazan —his shaven
crown shining to the tall wax candles, and his
arm round the neck of his fair visitor of the mor>
ing—was striving, despite this pleasing interpola-
tion, to effect a junction between his capacious
mouth and a long glass of ruby liquor, while under
bis other wing fluttered a painted Mongolian
person, whose presumably rightful lord—with his
baju buttoned awry, and his spectacles hanging
from one ear—presented the rare spectacle of a
speechlessly drunken Chinaman. And then, if by
any possibility I could have fathered upon this
object the optimistic stave we had just heard, the
question would have been settled by the pseudo-
servant of the Prophet.
“Kang Len!” he spluttered—when, by dint of
nearly strangling the lady of his love, he had suc-
ceeded in absorbing his bumper—“ Kang Len, ye
doited auld heathen deevil! —what for d’ye sit
there as doomb as ane o’ yer ain saucer-ee’d
josses? Wauken up wi’ ye, mon, an’gie’s a bit
sang, or a’ll wat yer whustle wi’ a ” So sud-
denly did he substitute a cupful of fluid for the
end of his sentence, that, at sight of the man of
coffee with a decoction of his own ware running
in brown streams down his astonished counten-
ance, I burst into an irrepressible guffaw.
The women squealed like guinea-pigs, as the
Hadji, with a tierce whisper of “ Whisht, ye
limmers ! ” threw down his cup and commenced an
unsteady blowing-out of lights.”
“Salaam, Hadji!” I said—having got to the
ground and the door before he could finish.
“Greeting to thee, pillar of Islam!—condemner
of forbidden liquors ! ‘ Rash judgments are the
nets of Satan,’ eh ? —and women are his gifts ? ”
The old fellow’s naked pate flushed redder than
his nose; but, ridiculous as he looked with the
brown damsel clinging round his neck and the
yellow one sprawling over his abundant paunch,
there was danger in his eye as he thrust a hand
into the breast of his baju.
“ It is written,” he began, in sententious Arabic
“ that the uninvited guest ”
“ That’s all right, Scotty !” I said. “ You can
give the Arab business a rest! —it’s played-out.
What might the other half of your name be ? ”
He took the menacing hand out of his breast,
and a grin dawned about his cunning little eyes as
be unceremoniously thrust the women away from
him.
“ The ither hauf o ma name? ” he repeated.
“Oh, drop that miserable jargon!” I said.
“If you can speak Arabic, you can surely speak
decent English. Yes, the hind-part of your
name, I mean; the front end’s ‘ Mac ’—for a
thousand ! ”
The grin became a laugh, as the old reprobate
threw himself down on his bamboo lounge again
and dropped his uncouth vernacular.
“ You’re not far out about the name, lad ! But,
take a drink —yourself and your three-haired
friend, there—and tell me how you come to be
dodging round this uncanny old bone-yard at tins
time of night.” .
“ Not so ! ” put in the Dutchman —not reason.g
the allusion to the sparse decoration of his upper
lip. “It is you who must explain. lam Lieu
tenant Schuyten, in charge of the Fort of Jafat-
tam, and I have the honor to demand, officially,
what is your business here?”
“Nae hairm—no harm, I mean. You see, 1
get so infernally siek, at times, of playing Due
Believer, that I must have a spree, or burst. But
it’s got to be on the strict Q.T., of course; so, as
nobody ever comes here at night ”
“And he?” Schuyten pointed to the maunder-
ing Chinaman, whose painted protei/ee was now
trying to clear the coffee from his eyes.
“Oh, I just brought him along for company
because he was the only non-Mahometan I could
get hold of. But the poor wretch has no more
head for liquor than a grasshopper ; knocked-out
in the first round, you see ! ”
“ But what’s the meaning of this True Believer
racket, anyhow ?” I put in. “What in creation
do you want to sham Mahometan for?”
The Hadji winked one eye.
“And you haven’t told us what comes alter
‘ Mac,’ yet.”
The Hadji winked the other. _
“ Oh, all right—l’ll call you Mactavish !
“ You won’t call me a, flat, at all events.
“And I'll put you in print, some day, as
‘ Hadji Mactavish.’ How will that go?’
“Put-me where you like, as long as you don
put me in
‘ ‘ Prison, eh ? ” suggested Schuyten.
The Hadji snapped his fingers. “Go home .
bed, young man. It wasn’t in Dutch territory ■
ALEX. MONTGOMERY.


The Kid’s Carriage.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ii rrtHERE he is again, that old sundowner,
I with his perambulator, in which are piled
up his bluey, his swag, his billy, his
ration-bags, and, most precious of all, his ‘re-
licts ’ wrapped up in a newspaper. ”
The old chap passed here before, and then I
learned his story. I had seen sundowners of
sorts often enough; various indeed, from the ratty
man with a fringe of bits of cork on strings round
his hat, to the “ swaggie” aristocrat who had lost
all but his manner, but never before had I seen a
man wheeling his swag in a perambulator.
He sent in to ask for rations. The storekeeper
was out, so I went to get him some myself. Seeing
me look at the perambulator, he said :
“Thet ther’ ’as a ’ist’ry."
I went on measuring out the rations, feeling
sure that if he wanted to talk, he would. The
humpy-shouldered, battered-looking ancient sat
down, bushman-fashion, on nothing, and, taking
from his pocket an old wooden pipe, began clean-
ing it.
“Got any tobacco? ” I asked, taking the hint.
“’Bout half a smoke somewhere,” he said,
fumbling in his pookets ; then: “ Seems like I’ve
smoked thet larst bit,” as he failed to find it.
I reached down a square of Yankee Doodle and
handed it to him.
“ Gord bless yer, Missis ! ” He cut away at the
tobacco, rubbed it up meditatively, gave a satis-
fied sniff at it, filled his pipe, and then began
fumbling in his pockets again for matches. Evi-
dently drawing another blank, I handed him a
box, and, with another “ Gord bless yer. Missis,”
he lit-up.
After a few puffs, he said : “I’m a widder-
mn.n( I am.” A pause and another puff or two ;
then, “Yes, missis, a widderman. An’ I wos
thet ’appy merried ! I never ’ad but one spree
to wet it like, but thet spree cost me dear. Thet
spree cost me wife an’ chile ; thet spree left me
nothin’ but thet there pramberlater an’ these ’ere
relicts”—and he flourished his tattered sleeve
towards his poor possessions like a demagogue
lecturer.
Having filled his bags, I started to lock the
store as if to go, but he held me with his faded
eye, and went on “ Least said soonest to bed’s
my motter, an’ talkin’ gives no takins ’cept yer a
parson —nor raises no deaders anyway ; but yer
looks puzzled-like, as a many more ’as at thet
ther pramberlater, so I’ll put yer on ther track of
it.” Being Australian, I propped myself against
the door-post just to listen, when, after a few
more puffs, he went on—
IN A TRAM.
1ST. GENT : “ Look ’ere, ole man, my wife besh woman ’ole Sydney ."
2ND. GENT: "Shucks, ole fellowl My wife's besh woman in ’ole world — and” (reflectively)
“that’s not shayin’ mush.”
“Well, to make a short cut, as the crow flies,
so to speak, I was knockabout man at Uoorendah.
Ellen she was ’ousekeeper, only a couple of the
gentlemen to do for—quite the lady, with a parasol
fer ’er walk on Sundays. A quiet young woman,
as liked some age in a man, alius civil to me. I
wos never on the spree in ’er time ; I’d ’ad a mor-
tal bad turn before she came, thet put the fear o’
God in me fer a bit.
“Well, time went on. I gits a noo soot fer
courtin’; but I ses nothin’ to ’er, an’ she seems to
be gettin’ thin an’ peaky-lookin’, frettin’ like.
The boss ses to me one day—l mind it well; a
Sunday, an’ me in me noo suit (cost me two quid)
—I mind I’d ’ad me ’air cut that day ; it puts
ther spring in a man ’avin’ ’is ’air cut. It was just
afore the boss was goin’ to merry a young Sydney
lady as was visitin’ on Uoodoon, as all them young
squatters was shook on. Well, ’im bein’ shook
ike, makes ’im twig iu in others, an’ ’e must ha’
seen me castin’ sheep’s eyes Ellen ways. ‘ Jimmy,’
ses ’e, ‘why don’t yer buck up to ’er an’ git
merried? You arrange it with Ellen an’ I’ll fix
up the Green Tree Hut an’ put yer there boundary -
ridin’, an’ a cheque in yer pocket for a weddin’-
present, so as yer ken tell ’er yer a man wid
savin’s. Women ’as a great eye fer a man wid
savin’s.’
“Well, to make a shortcut as the crow flies,
arter a bit o’ kickin’ an’ jibbin’, as is the way o’
fillies, Ellen runs kind an’ we wos merried, just
afore the boss. He give us a good spread, an’ a
parson merried us, Ellen cry in’ like a real lady.
There wos a deal o’ style ’bout Ellen, she noo
wot’s wot, as ther say in’ is. We goes ’ome in a
old sulky the boss ’ad given us, fer ration-carryin’
an’ sich like. Ellen runs in double ’amess quiet
as may be. She was a rare ’and at suety dough-
boys—them’s the things to warm a man’s ’art.
They goes ’igh wid a sprinklin’ o’ brown sugar or a
drop of bullocky’s joy, an’ lies easy on yer stum-
mick. It’s crool thet a woman should be took as
wos sich a ’and at ’em. Lord knows there’s food-
poisoners enough to fill Kingdom Come widout
them as ken cook bein’ took; but the Lord makes
His mistakes same as ther rest o’ us.
“ Ellen soon shows signs o’ wot’s but natarel,
an’ I sees ’er all ’er spare time at finickity sewin’,
now laughin’, now cryin’—tears i 3 mortal near to
women’s laughin’. It’s like a dog—yer never
knows whether ’e ’ll bark or wag ’is tail. Ellen
reckons she wants ter do ther choosin’ o’ some bits
o’ things in ther sewin’-line, so I gits a day off an'
we goes inter the township, fust time since we
was merried. Ellen seemed to be shy-like at facin
folks, an’ me, knowin’ wot darned tempta-
tion places townships is, fights shy on ’em too.
A man wants muzzling afore ’e goes to a township.
I leaves Ellen at ther store while I puts up ther
’orse at the pub. I goes inside, just ter bid
M‘Taggart an’ ’is missu3 ther time o’ day, an’ tell
’em as my missis ud be in fer a bit o’ dinner.
“ My word 1 yer feels mighty at ’ome wen yer
goes inter a pub. where yer knows the boss an
yer hes a cheque ’andy. ’E sort o’ smells thet
cheque in yer pocket, an’ bids yer ther time
o’ day so pleasant-like, and ‘Wat ’ll yer take,
Jim ? ’ comes natarel from him, an’ yer feels sort
o’ mean wen yer ses * Somethin’ soft.’
“‘ By blazes, man ! ’ ses ’e, ‘is thet wot it’s
come to ? I never thort ter see yer as bad as this ;
but, give it a name, we has plenty soft tack fer
them as likes it.’ I feels mean an’ narked like,
but I keeps the brake down agin liquor an’ takes
limejooce corjal, an’ arskes M‘Taggart to name
’is poison, an’ flings a couple o’ loose bob down.
“‘I ain’t a cold-tea chap, Jim,’ ses ’e, ‘so I’ll
try a drop o’ real Scotch.’ ’E gits a new bottle,
out wid the cork, an’, Holy Moses, don’t it smell
good ! Thet limejooce has turned on me stummick.
I feels queer. M‘Taggart ’e pours out ’is whisky
slowly, all ther same as if it wes gold-jooce, an’
ther smell swims about an’ strikes me fair in ther
nostruls. Lord ! ’ow sour thet limejooce do turn
on a man’s stummick 1
* ’Ere’s to yer noo missis, Jim,’ ses ’e. * Yer
won’t let me take a Jimmy Woodser ? ’ ’E brings
ther bottle a bit nearer. ‘ Thet lime-jooce is
crampin’ me,’ ses I. ‘ Jest a thimble-full to stay
me stummick. Rare good stuff ! How smooth it
do run down, mild aa mother’s milk, but stayin’,
real stayin’.’ %
“ ‘ Lime-jooce,’ ses ’e, ‘is good fer women as ’as
their tongues set in looser ’an men’s, an’ don’t
want ’em set waggin’ faster than Natur 1 ’as reger-
lated; but fer men as ’as their back teeth cut this
’ere’s the stuff.’ ’E gives a wink, an’ ’e ses, ‘ I
reckon there’s a son a cornin’, Jimmy, as wants ’is
’ealth drunk, an’if ’e’s a daughter, ’eres to ’erl’
An’ down goes another couple o’ nips. Then I
takes a pull at meself, an’ ses I’ll go fer me missis.
‘ Right-0 1 ’ ses ’e. * Ellen’s waitin’; I sees a
pramberlater on ther store-verandah,’ ses I.
“ ‘Ellen, me girl, we’ll start ther kid in a ker-
ridge.’ * A box on wheels ’ud do ’is turn,’ ses she,
but she looks hungry-like at thet there pramber-
later, an’ I buys it, breaks
me cheque to pay fer it,
puts ther parsuls in an’
wheels it across to '
ther pub. Ellen gits
thet red same as a
termater w’ e n
the chaps
chuckles as I
wheels it in,
but, ses I
to them,
‘ We’re goin’
AT THE FISH-
MARKETS.
FISH-HAWKER: "I have
a very good plan to
keep fish from smelling,
lady
SHE: “ Oh, do tell me how you do it."
FISH-HAWKER : “ I cut off their noses, madam.”
to start our kid in a kerridge ; he shan’t hump ’is
darned bluey like ’is old dad did. ’E shall hev
’is kerridge.’
“Our dinner done—a good square feed—l goes
to settle-up. Well, to make a short cut as the
crow flies, I finds a couple o’ old pals in ther bar,
an’, not to show any jam, as ther sayin’ is, I hes a
irink wid ’em, an’ a 3 per usual, one drink leads
to another, an’ time passes. Sammy Clark ses he
seen ther boss in town. ‘l’d best be off, then,’
ses I, an’ I makes fer Ellen. M‘Taggart an’ ’is
missis ses we’d better stay ther night, an’ Ellen
3he ses it’s gettin’ on to dark, an’ she sort o’ shies
off me. Thet gits my back up— ‘ Tm runnin’ this
’ere show,’ ses I; ‘ ther boss is in town, an’ I’m
off. ’ I feels a bit queer in me legs when I gits
outside, an* me eyes sees sort o’ hazy, but I knows
what I’m at, an’ we starts. ’Bout half-way there’s
a lot o’ gidya stumps. Now there’s no ‘ give ’in
a gidya stump, an’ when we ’its one it’s full stop,
suddint-like—Ellen goes one way, me t’other.
I sees Ellen pick ’erself up, an’ I disremem-
bers any more till ther sun full on me
wakes me nex’ mornin’. I was dazed to
know where I was. Lord ! wot a thirst I
hed—dry as a bone. I thinks o’ nothin’ but
where to git a drink, an’ makes straight for
ther township. I gits there, sweatin’ like a
bullock’s tongue, an’ the father o’ a thirst on
me fer a hair o’ the dog as bit me, as the
sayin’ is. But I swallered the whole skin !
‘ ‘ They tells me arter thet the Boss comes
in, spots me, an’ rides out to Green Tree
’ut, an’ come back in double-quick time.
‘Thet blaggard’s wife,’ ses ’e as ’e passes, *is
dyin’, an’ only a black gin there. I’m arter
ther doctor.’
“W’en I’m a bit round M‘Taggart takes
me out ’isself. I goes in, I sees ther boss
aside o’ Ellen’s bed, cryin’ like a chile. Wen
’e sees me ’e ses: ‘ Look at yer work, yer
drunken blaggard 1 ’ My Gord, missis ! I
wos thet staggered. Seven months married,
an’ there lies Ellen dead as door-nails,
an’ a ohile dead, too, in ’er arms! A
black gin started ’owlin’ worse ’an any dingo.
My Gord 1 I felt bad. I sights M‘Taggart, an’ I
takes my turn at roustin’. ‘ It’s you who done
it, with yer blarney an’ yer snake-jooce,’ an’
I goes fer ’im wid a three-legged stool, an’ ’e clears
fer ’is natarel, the brumby 1
“To make a short cut, as the crow flies, we
burie3 Ellen an’ the kid. One o’ the men brings
me a bottle, for comfit like. I must ha’ tookr it
freely, fer I disremember till nex’ day I wakes up
in thet hut, broad daylight, true as I’m tellin’ yer.
I ken ’ear them ’appy family birds a chatterin’
roun’ ther door where Ellen used to chuck ’em
crumbs, an’ there, plain as I sees yer, I sees Ellen
just in ’er nightgown, an’ ther chile in ’er arms. I
sees ’er so plain I goes up to ’er. My Gord ! The
look she give me would ha’ froze a crowbar, an’,
afore I touches ’er, she goes—nowhere, as 1 ken.
see, but she goes. *My Gord ! ’ says I, ‘ I’m
ratty ! ’ I goes fer a drink, an’ fills the billy to-
make some tea, to take ther darned sting out o’
me throat. Wen I comes in agen, there, true as-
I’m tellin’ yer, is Ellen an’ ther chile. I couldn’t
stay there. I mus’ roll up swag, an’ off. Thet-
darned black gin hes cleared off wid Ellen’s
things. All I ken see left is a ole apron, an’ a
pink sunbonnet as I used ter fancy ’er in, an’ one
•o’them bead consarns, as i yer tallies yer prayers
wid; rosemaries, Ellen called ’em. She was a fair
terror fer tallyin’ ’er prayers. I never set much
store on ’em flimsies afore, but I was mighty glad
ter catch a holt o’ it now. I sees some bits o’
Sewin’, toe, she’d been at fer ther kid. My Cord,
Missis ! them an’ Ellen’s thimble fairly
knocked me. I rolls ’em all
up, an’ they’s all the relicts
I hes o’ the wife an’ chile.
Jest as I was finishin’-up,
in comes Corney Hislope
from ther head station
an’ tells me Vs come
ter take me place ;
I’m ter go inter
ther station. I
tells ’im’ ow I
seen Ellen an’
ther chile.
* It’s horrors,’
ses ’e, ‘an’ yer
conscience, get-
tin’ drunk an’
chuckin’ er out.
Yer killed ’er,
the doctor sed.’
‘ ‘ Doctor be
blowed 1 ’ says
I. ‘ Kil-
lin’s
their
game.
To my
way o’
think-
in’ doc-
tors is
part-
ners wid
ther un-
dertak-
ers. Hac-
cidens is
haccidens.
Hi m be
blowed fer
a fool; we
was only
seven
months
merried.’
Corney
shets up.
“Seein’ that pram-
berlator, thinks I, I’ll kerry
me swag an’ relicts in it. Corney reckons they’ll
call me ratty. ‘Me troubles ! ’ says I; ‘ I’ll not
leave the little kerridge as Ellen an’ me picked fer
our kid.’ Wen I gits to ther station I finds ther
boss gone, but ther overseer gives me my cheque
an’ ther sack. ‘Thet’s hard,’ ses I. ‘Thet’s
orders,’ ses ’e.
“ Arter a bit on ther wallaby I gits a job, but
it’s blamed lonely bein’ a ’atter, an’ me used to a
wife, an’ wen I gits a bit o’ a cheque agen I sprees
it. Time goes on, now a bit o’ work, now a burst.
An’Missis,” he went on, “it weren’t no horrors
me seein’ Ellen an’ ther chile; afore three days wos
out Corney was in at ther station, ’e seein’ ’em too,
an’ never a man as went there but did ther same.
None on ’em ud stop ; ther old ’ut fell down
neglected like. At larst some travellers burnt it;
but, so be yer camp there, yer dog ud howl yer ’ead
off, an’ never a ’orse ken yer ride past ther old
green tree, as give ther ’ut it’s name, but
’e shies like mad. There’s a new road past there
THE DRAWBACK.
THE FATHER : “ Well, and what are you
going to make of the boy, Mrs. O’Hehir?”
MRS. O'HEHIR : “ Well , yer Rivirince, I
was thinking of 'putting ’im to be an
author—his writin’ do be so bea-u-tiful an ’
round, and there’s no keeping him from
the newspaper o’ nights—only I mistrust
me, your Rivirince, but it would cost
more than a lone widdy could spare to
have ’im taught to speak that shorthand .”
now, an’ lookin’ a likely campin’ place, many a
mob o’ sheep an’ cattle lies camped there ; but
never a one but broke camp, scared as if
all the devils were arter ’em. Ther old-’and
drovers know it, an’ only a new-chum ud camp
where my Ellen walks, ’er as they calls the ghost
o’ Green Tree Hut.”
N.S.W.
K. LANGLOH PABICER.
A -schoolboy essay on the “ Romans
Romans as chapels an preasts an we avent a sister a
mine marry eel a roman an dad swoar hede shute him so
he got a orse an gun an follerd them an kern up to them
at a pub ware the roman was drinkin here an he arsk dad
to have-sum an they got drunk an dad borred ten bob
from him an thay got to be frends an thay kem home in
| the spring kart an lives with us now an dussent ete mete
on frydys.


The Cheque-Man’s Progress.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FIRST DAY. He comes swinging up to
the pub., and putting down his swag
jauntily, patronisingly invites all and
sundry the verandah to “ Come and ’ev
a wet.” Landlord receives him with genial
courtesy, skilfully blended with respect.
Having served the drinks, proceeds to rub down
counter with a cloth and an engaging smile, till
invited to “ ’Ev one yerself,” when he is forthwith
filled with humble thankfulness, and drinks his
cold-tea fearfully, as though conscious of taking
an unwarrantable liberty. Asks where cheque-
man (hereinafter “O.M.”)has been working, and
is given cheque, which he is enjoined to keep
safely; promises faithfully to do so ; also learns,
with deep and unqualified regret, that the C.M.’s
late employer is a fair blanky cow, unfit to boss
a blanky blaokfellow—let alone a white man. The
C.M. tells us that he is full-up of bush work, and
is going to town in the morning, having there
“ the chance of a good billet at two notes a week.”
Three hours later the prospective screw has
swollen to ten pounds, with the boss’s daughter;
and a dowry of a thousand solid, blanky quids is
thrown in to fill up the cracks. '
During tea, the C.M. expounds his views on the
war, women, the probable Cup winner, the state
of the country, bi-metallism and other things,
with artless and untutored eloquence. These
appeal successfully to the general understanding.
But one who was a C.M. himself (last week) is
fired by the first drinks he has had that day to
hint at a distant dissent. Whereupon the land-
lord, shocked into heat, remarks that he’ll have
no blanky loafers there, and deposits him with
some decision in the dust outside, conscientiously
flinging his swag on the top of him. You mildly
support the ejected one, and (being pro solvent
but contra a teetotaller) are subject only to the
landlord’s clumsy ironies, while the C.M. states
that “ Yer one of these blanky coves, etc.,” and
that he has “ met your blanky sort before.” You
politely congratulate him on the fact.
After tea, the eldest girl puts on her shoes and
stockings and a clean blouse and “ plays the pian-
ner.” The company bellow various ballads, and re-
ceive some perfectly frank criticisms from the C.M.
He adds example to precept, by showing them
how they should sing. His artistic gospel is
received with humble but loud admiration. It
consists of woeful and long-drawn nasal tones,
relieved with involuntary gaps occasioned by too
high pressure of drink. He kisses the pianiste,
and makes public, but unedifying, proposals to her.
Varies this by explaining to the company, severally
and collectively, how many kinds of a blanky
fool it is. Company admits the justice of the
strictures and swallows its ninth free drink with
unshattered composure. The Lately Chucked
crawls in from outer darkness and applauds so
promptly and propitiatorily that he is pardoned
and boozed. The C.M. continues to act the
bullock and the goat till midnight, when the land-
lord assists him to bed and tenderly divests him
of his boots.
Second day the C.M. awakes landlord—and
everyone else—s.3o a.m. Is evidently sober,
penitent and furry. Sleeping near the bar, you
hear him implore the landlord to get up and give
him something to straighten him before the coach
comes.
“Give me a real stiffener, boss!” he urges.
AT THE FANCY-DRESS BALL.
“ I say, Kitty , you're not always so averse to sitting on my knee.
Boss kindly obliges, whereupon the C.M.’s battling
consciousness is submerged till mid day—when
the weekly coach has passed. Then the landlady
takes him in a basin of soup with her own fair
hands. “I made it for yer, myself!” she says
cpquettishly. He expresses regret at missing the
coach. “O, sure ye couldn’t have got a seat, or
we’d have wakened yer. The coach was full
inside and out.” The evening is a replica of the
last, save that the C.M. retires earlier to the tap-
room sofa. No one puts him to bed. Some of
the bolder spirits chaff him a little, and there is a
slight ourrent of authority in the landlord’s voice.
Third Day. C.M. having gone to bed at day-
break, comes into bar at 10 a.m. wearing only a
shirt and a wicked odor, and demands whisky in
a faint and wheezy whisper. The boss gives him
the drink and informs him, with some severity,
that he keeps a respectable ’ouse, and that gentle-
men frequenting it are earnestly requested to wear
their pants. C.M. promises an early addition to
his apparel and departs unsteadily on a pair of
striped and scaly legs. Later C.M. shouts half-a-
dozen times, but after a brief spasm of violence,
in which he gets a bad attack of gravel-rash, sub-
sides into slumber. He is presently decorated
with burnt cork while—some incoherent words
being so interpreted— the company have sundry
drinks at his expense. Eldest girl plays again.
At ten he awakes and puts his arm around her,
whereupon the boss bundles him unceremoniously
to his room.
Fourth Day. Sleeps most of his time, only
awakening now and again to call for rum in a
choked and unnatural voice. Eats nothing and is
not pressed to do so. Has ceased to shout and is
generally ignored but for an occasional and con-
temptuous jest.
Fifth Day. Ditto, save that during evening,
you hear the boss tell him shortly that he’s had
enough.
Sixth Day. Airing yourself outside before
breakfast, you hear him ask the boss for a drink.
“W’y,” exclaims that worthy, sharply, “I gev
yer one jes’ now ! ” From this, you infer that the
C.M. is a cheque-man no longer. He joins the
common herd on the form outside, who for ever
talk disjointedly and await the coming of shouting
solvency.
Seventh Day. He is still on the form when you
come out. He calls you “ sir ” instead of “mate.”
You buy a drink for the poor devil —not having
one yourself. Ho is not offended. He burns the
rank incense of crude flattery at the feet of the
boss, the missus, and the family, but is treated
with contumely. Finally, in reply to a nerveless
remark .about the weather, the boss assures him
positively that he’s a blanky liar. This being non-
effective, he is told not to hang about there any
longer. He pleads for another drink, gets it, and
goes. Later, you pass him crawling along a mile
or two further on. He begs a pipeful of tobacco,
and announces that he has sworn off the blanky
grog for ever. Styles it rot-gut and poison. Fur-
ther volunteers the statement that this blanky
country is played out and that a toiler has no
show.
It is quite a while before the clean sunshine can
clear the incident out of your memory.
N.S.W.
CECIL POOLE.
The Tapping at the Window.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
J HE night was black and blustrous; the
respectable suburban street with its
solemn rows of straight, square, genteel
villas, retiring with an air of severity and aloof-
ness behind their prim gardens and well-trimmed
shrubs, acquired a new dignity in the darkness
and the storm.
The rain had ceased, but the sea-wind was
bitterly cold, and a monstrous flight of clouds
lumbered across the sky, touched here and there
with suggestions of a moon. There was one man
abroad in the street, but it needed keen eyes to
find him—a tall, emaciated figure in a long, dark
dressing-gown tied at the waist with a cord; on
his head an old-fashioned night-cap, on his feet
a pair of carpet slippers; above these fluttered
the loose legs of light pyjamas. The man clung
desperately to the hedge-covered fences, dragging
himself along slowly a few inches at a time. The
moon, showing for a moment, cast a pallid light
upon a white face that might have been the coun-
tenance of a Death, and upon the bare blade of a
knife thrust in the belt of his gown,
Slowly, laboriously he fought his way from rail
THE SUPERIOR SEX.
HOSTESS : “ How long did it take you to learn that—that affair, Herr Dunckelspiel? ”
HERR DUNGKELSPIEL : “About eight year, for every day; seven hour bractice already .”
HOSTESS : “Eight years! Why, I learned to ride a bicycle in two days!”
to rail; sometimes he tumbled to his knees, but
still stumbled on and on. An imperishable will
dragged on those quivering limbs. No groan, no
whisper issued through the clenched teeth. The
wide eyes never left the one objective for a wink-
ing space.
At length the man reached a gate at which he
paused on his knees in the mud ; a bony finger
sprang the latch, and the shadow wormed its way
in; then, crawling and creeping, dragged itself
along the paths. Having reached an illumined
window to the left of the door, the man, with
white, talon-like fingers clinging to the sill,
endeavored to drag himself to his feet. At last
he stood upright, and peering through an opening
in the Venetian blind, saw into a comfortable,
well-lit room, where a huge fire burned. A
large-headed, fair man of about 40 lolled by a table
with a book in his hand, his fingers drumming
impatiently on the cover. His eyes were turning
constantly to the clock on the shelf above him.
The watcher without drew the knife from his
girdle, and with the metallic haft gave three dis-
tinct raps on the window. The man within tossed
aside his book, and sprang to his feet. Presently
the front door opened softly, and a voice called in
a whisper :
“ Myra! ”
The shadow was flattened
against the wall, screened by
a shrub; the hand clasping
the knife was rigid at its side.
The fair man stepped forth
and called again:
“Myra! Myra! Where
art thou ? ” The tone was
playful.
Seeking amongst the bushes,
the man came nearer yet.
“ Ah, you minx, you’re play-
ing me a trick! ”
He was near enough, the
knife-blade flashed, a blow was
struck.
“ Good God ! what is
that ?”
The fair man held the
skeleton wrists of the shadow,
and jerked the weak form
forward into the hall, into the
lighted room, feeling no fear,
for it seemed that he handled
a fragile girl.
“ Heavens ! Briton ! ”
The emaciated avenger lay
extended on the rug before the
fire; the fair man stood over
him, amazement in every
feature. There was a long
slash in the left side of his
yellow vest, and the dark stain
of blood that showed through
the cloth was rapidly extend-
ing; but he did not heed
this. Mechanically, but softly,
he closed the door, then re-
turned to the man on the
rug, kneeling over him.
“And you a dying man !” he said. The ruddy
color had left his cheeks, his face was yellow, he
trembled horribly. A sense of the terrible jour-
ney the avenger had made, the more terrible spirit
that upheld him, had seized upon the strong,
happy man, and he cowered under it.
Briton’s lips were drawn back from his teeth in
the last efforts for breath; he seemed to grin
maliciously. His long, thin, black hair dripped
water, his dress was covered with mud, there was
blood on his hands; but his face had the white-
ness of bleached bone, and his eyes burned in their
dark sockets.
“Yes,” he gasped, “a dying man who crawled
from his deathbed to kill you, Grey, and failed —
Oh, God, and failed ! ”
The other’s hand went unmeaningly to his
wound. “We must get you away,” he said
vaguely.
“I’ll die here,” said Briton. “ You might have
had the decency to wait till I was dead, you two.”
“How —how did you know?” Grey had a
consciousness of the futility of denials in the face
of this tragedy.
“ I was suspicious. Your letter fell into my
hands yesterday. ‘ Knock three times on the
window with your thimble,’ you said.” Briton
suddenly raised his hand as if the knife were still
in it, and made a stabbing blow at Grey, who
avoided it with a sharp cry of fear.
“You’re dying,” said Grey helplessly. “I
must get you home.”
“Damn you, let me be! You have her. Do
you begrudge me your rug to die on ? ”
Grey, with his left hand pressed hard upon
his hurt, knelt by the dying man, crushed and
helpless. Briton lay silent for a few moments,
the hand upon his body fluttering upwards, fol-
lowing the congealing hand of Death.
“It’s creeping up!” he whispered. “It’s
creeping up ! ”
Grey looked vaguely to the right and left, to
the walls and the shelves, as if seeking aid or
inspiration, but his eyes reverted to Briton’s face
and he did nothing.
“Grey!” Briton’s voice rang out with start-
ling strength, his right hand pointed at the
window. “ Must she come knocking for you when
I’m gone ? ”
“ No, no ! By God, I swear it—no! ”
But Grey was protesting in vain—the tide had
risen to the full.
Grey knelt by the body of his friend, his eyes
fixed upon the thin face, less death-like in death
than it had been in life, and he thought of the
strength and beauty of poor Briton’s youth, his
magnificent vitality, his all-embracing joy of life,
and compassion took hold of him, and filled him
like a great sickness. Tears fell upon the dead
man’s brow.
But presently Grey turned from the sight, with
a new horror in his eyes.
The silence had been broken by a sharp metallic
sound—the tapping of a thimble upon the window-
pane.
VIC.
EDWARD DYSON.
“ Alpar ” : I know a 47-year old man, in
Illawarra (N.S.W.) district, who has been only
three times off the farm he was born on, and then
it was only to “ town ” —one pub. with trimmings,
3 miles away. His mother says he is the makings
of a rattling husband, whoever gets him. His
elder brother, on the other hand, she considers a
regular rake, because he goes out once a month
(at full moon), ’possum-shooting.
* * * •
“ Wurry-M.” : Re goanna-grease (8.,
7/9/’01) :
On a W.Q. railway-construction once one of the boys
in the camp sighed for the fleshpots of civilisation. He
wanted a pie—“ One of the sort you get at a Brisbane
hotel.” “ Arrah, man,” said Mrs. Maloney, our chef,
“ how the divil d’ye t’ink oi cud make flakey crust wid
mutton-fat?” In a reckless moment I undertook to
bring some beef-suet from town next time I went into
Morven. I forgot, though, and, happening on the road
home to knock over an old-man goanna, I skinned him
and turned his fat into my quart-pot. I explained to my
companion what the grease was for, and we hunted every
“ ig." we saw till the pot was nearly full. We then
papered over the top and delivered the “beef-dripping"
to Mrs. Maloney. I went elsewhere to dinner next day,
but the chaps in our camp told me afterwards that I
didn’t know what I’d missed. I told them I did, but l
didn’t mean what they meant.


The Baffled Idealist.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WOULD those crows never stop their
infernal noise ? Cockie Joe Ander-
son, late of the Great Prickly-
pear selection, stopped his horses, threw
down the reins, gazed at the big gum-tree
where the crows congregated, and thought hard.
He took his hat off twice, the first time just to
let the cool breeze play on his head ; the second,
to aid his thinking by scratching. Presently he
came to a resolution, left the horses and strode off
in the black soil towards his dwelling-place.
Reaching there he pushed his wife roughly out of
the doorway, tramped into the untidy room,
groped about in one of the dark, musty corners
for a minute or two, and then brought out an old
muzzle-loading gun. His wife turned and watched
him.
“What are you staring at ? ” he cried; “why
can’t you go and do some work ! ” She sighed and
left the room. She didn’t care ; she was used to
him.
He hurriedly loaded the gun ; left powder, shot
and caps on the porter-case that did service for a
chair ; and made for the crows. And they, poor
simple things, never dreamt of being harmed by
Cockie Anderson. He circled around the tree,
to get out of the glare of the sun, and then almost
getting under the quorking birds cocked the gun,
and aimed.
Bang went the crazy old weapon, very nearly
knocking Anderson over. Feeling his shoulder
he looked to see the result of the shot. No crows
fell. Already they were in safer trees. The only
thing that fell was a poor little brown bird. It
came fluttering to the ground, mortally wounded.
Instantly Anderson was sorry. He went over to
the dying bird and picked it up by the tip of the
wing and felt its downy body. Why, he thought,
should a solitary shot find its end jji this little
bird ?
Already its mate was singing a mourning, re-
proachful song to the marksman.
Anderson heard it with the dead bird lying in
his palm, and a new feeling awoke in his breast.
Love ! even a little bird could love. And he,
great hulking man, knew not real love before.
How cruel he was to his wife, his children and his
working animals ! With head bowed, the shamed
man thought of these things. Before he married
he loved in a sort of a way, but now And to
be rebuked by a common little brown bird. He
would now atone for his cruelty. Although he
did not love, he would try to, and show his family
he had some respeot for them, and maybe teach
IN THE HOSPITAL GROUNDS.
“ And v)liy are you here f What's the matter with you ? ”
“ Oh, Pm lungy. And you?” “ Oh, I'm hearty.”
them to love him as a husband and a father.
Abstractedly he took down his coat from the tree,
and put the dead bird into a pocket, then, putting
the gun against the tree, went in search of his
horses and plough. He found them in the sweet
potatoes, where they had destroyed almost two
furrows. But he angered not. He drove them
out, did two ups and one down with the plough,
and then unharnessed, and in his new feeling of
kindness let the animals go for a spell.
Anderson took his coat and gun and went home
and told his wife that the horses were tired and
wanted a rest. But she only flared-up at him.
“ It ain’t the tiredness,” she retorted, “it’s you’re
too dashed lazy to follow the plough.”
It was a moonless night. Cockie Joe Anderson
sat on the log outside his humpy. A long, lean
kangaroo-dog shoved its sniffling muzzle into his
half-open hand. Anderson was studying the best
way to carry on his new love-campaign. His
wife, as usual, sat in the doorway. Presently he
looked up and spoke to her.
“What is it you want?” she asked, still at her
favorite place.
“ Sarah,” he almost pleaded, “ do come to me.”
She ■ slouched from the door over to him.
“ What is it you want ? ” she repeated.
“ Come, sit down here.” And he put his hand
where he wanted her to sit. She had barely sat
down when his arm encircled her waist. ‘ ‘ Sarah, ”
he began, “ isn’t this a beautiful world, full
of”
“What the devil’s up with you?” she cried
angrily. “Why didn’t you leave me where I
was? What in the name of goodness are you fool-
ing and fiddling at me for ? ”
“ Love! ” he said feebly.
“ Love ! ” she cried, springing up. “ A lot you
know of love. Love —the idea ! You talk about
love? Look here, Anderson, I’ve got no more
love for you than for a pig. If you want love just
look at my face. See the furrows made by work
and worrying. Look at my hollow cheeks, sunken
eyes, and big, bony body. Love indeed ! Get
away you fool! ”
She slouched back into the house, and to soothe
her ruffled feelings, went into the kitchen and told
the children their father wanted them. But the
children were loth to leave the cat they were
playing with. “Willie! Emma! leave the cat
alone. Will you go this minute to your father ?
take Jack with you, too.”
The last-named let go the cat’s tail, and ran to
the door singing out, “Mummer’s in a rage!”
He was only five years of age, but he knew a lot.
Emma and Willie slunk after their younger
brother.
“ Come here, children,” said Cockie Anderson.
“ Here, Willie, you sit this side, and you, Emma,
the other. Now, Jack, little fellow, you come
between my knees. I want you children to love
each other so fondly that you can’t do enough for
each other. I want you to love your parents as
we love you. Now, dear little children, will
you ? ” and a huge lump arose in his throat.
“ Come on, Jackie, now kiss pupper.” He
kissed Jackie, and pressed his cheek hard against
his own, and wept tears of love. He kissed
Emma, but not so affectionately as he had kissed
Jackie. When he looked for Willie he found he
had disappeared.
Anderson was silent for a few minutes ; and
then he said: “Emma, run away and bring
Willie here.” Emma found Willie under the
kitchen table. She crept under, and they com-
pared notes.
“’E’s mad ! ” said Emma.
“No ’e ain’t, ’e’s drunk ! ” replied her brother.
“ You ’ad better go, ’e wants you.”
“Me! No fear. Go to 'im to get kissed? ’E
kissed you,” sneered Willie.
Meanwhile Anderson was asking Jacky : “Will
pupper give him a ride on his knee ? ” and that
particular child was fishing with a chubby little
hand in his father’s coat-pocket.
“Oo look, pupper! ” exclamed he, bringing out
the little brown bird. “ Wot is it, pupper ? ”
“That’s a poor little bird. Pupper shot it this
morning. Pupper is a very bad —— ”
“Oo pupper, will you buy me a ‘shangi?’
Willie’s got one. Do buy Jackie ‘ shangi! ’
Jackie come help you shoot little birds.”
“What!” cried
Anderson; “has
Willie got a
shanghai?
Where did he
get it?” And
he put Jackie
down and strode
into the house.
Emma and
Willie heard
the heavy steps
coming, and
trembled. “Wil-
lie,” said the
familiar voice of
thunder, “ come
here this min-
ute ! ”
The boy
sneaked out
from under the
table and stood
up. “ I don’t
want to be
kissed!” he
cried.
“Now, don’t
be a fool, Wil-
liam ; Jack says
you have a
shanghai. Is it
true ! ”
“ Ye- e- e-s,”
faltered Willie.
“Eetch it here.”
When Willie brought the catapult Cookie
Anderson threw it into the fire. “ Never let me
catch you with one of them again,” he said,
withering Willie with a look.
Every day the little male bird sang its song of
mourning. Cockie Joe Anderson listened, eagerly
drinking in the dismal notes. It spurred him on.
to fresh affections. Day after day the family
were becoming more at loggerheads. Anderson’s
overtures of love disgusted them, and they made
no effort to hide their feelings.
“Although they mock me now,” Anderson told 1
himself, “ time will tell.”
Cockie Anderson was again ploughing where he'
had left off five days ago. He was just wiping the
sweat off his brow with his thumb when he heard
—not the mourning song—but a high, sweet, joy-
ful strain of warbling. Looking up, he saw the'
little brown bird with a new mate !
The man was disgusted. He tied the reins on
to the plough-handle, and turned and went home,
reappearing, after a few minutes, with the old
gun. As the loosely-eaked black soil crumbled
under his boots, he muttered, “So soon! so
soon ! ”
The shot scattered in among the leaves; the
new-made bride flew off to a neighboring tree,
wounded. The male brown bird lay at his feet.
Willie came running over to see what he had
shot.
“ Here, Willie,” said 'Anderson, “ take this gun;*
home, and tell your mother to give you money for-;
two new shanghais— ope for you, and the other
THE STRAIGHT GRIFFIN.
The Gentle Shepherd: “ What’s you r fare to the station, cabman?”
CABBY: “ Well, me pound-of-flesh is a bob; but the meanest dog I ever druv gave me two bob.”
for Jack to learn on. And tell her, if dinner’s not
ready in half-an-hour, there’ll be hell to pay.”
Then he artistically blinded the roan horse, for
daring to look at him.
Q.
JACK-A' -CLUBS.
The Woodland Woman.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They build and build, and are ever restless,
With hands that weary, and aching head;
They take to wife a slim white woman,
All languor-laden and heart half-dead :
But far, leagues far, in the forest yonder,
There growls and grumbles an ancient life ;
And there, under trees down-bowed in wonder,
Lies crouched upon leaves a brown-armed wife.
They dream of caves in their hand-made houses,
Of caves’ cool-breathing and green moss lined ;
They yearn for life, and her ancient call-word
Is born to them on the rising wind :
They fret and foam at their bondage cruel,
Their souls sin-fettered and sunk in shame ;
No Spring goes by but a red renewal
Invades their veins with the leap of flame.
0 brave and buxom the Woodland Woman !
Her brown breasts thrill with the joy of health,
Her lips give glory to those who languish,
And strength comes after on feet of stealth.
In sly, green places she greets her lovers
With themes and dreams, half-seen, half-heard,
That float afar where the dream-sense hovers—
All-hovering floats like a listless bird.
Alas ! who mated the Woodland Woman,
And gathered strength from her rude embrace,
Have drained their bones of the living marrows
To pleasure the wife who fills her place.
They toil and sweat, and are seldom idle —
Are seldom a-surge with longings keen
Bor sylvan tryst and greenwood bridal,
And the Woodland Woman in woodland green.
n.s.w.
Roderio Quinn.
A Bush Lamb.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WE were travelling by a quick express
out in the endless gum-country.
Sydney was away back in the
■dark-on the other side of the storm which
■dashed its fury against the windows. Heaven’s
Hash-light searched everything and everywhere.
Huge weather-beaten, ring-barked monsters licked
the dust, gashed by electricity and bulleted with
ihail. The honeymoon couple in the corner were
; the only ones who laughed and made each flash
opportunity for a convulsive hug of pleasure.
They were a red-haired pair. The rest were
■either silent or perturbed. An elderly cleric,
marked Wesleyan, muttered devotional exercises
and watched the abandoned love-makers with
strongMethodisticdisapproval. Some one hazarded
a challenge that no storm or rain had been like it
since the “sixties,” the period of all Australian
phenomena. No one replied, for a flash of
peculiarly devilish zig-zag just then seemed to in-
dicate that comparisons were odious. An hour of
;silence followed, and with it an intermittent sleep
to most of the car. The red-haired lovers and the
Wesleyan cleric were the exceptions. He objected
i to the lights being lowered.
4 * * * *
I The train had stopped. The clashing of the
ooupiings and the successive bumps told that
nothing like refreshments were about. It was
evidently an unpremeditated stoppage. The
storm had passed. The moon looked round with
pallor for the extent of damage done to her fallen
lovers, kissing the shattered trees and shrouding
them with a cloud. We hurriedly collected outside.
The red-haired stayed back. Their decision had
due weight with the parson, who also remained.
At the front, by the engine, we came upon the
other passengers. No one knew what had hap-
pened till the engine-driver brought forward a
young bush stripling—a modest, bashful boy of
the backblocks. “It’s come to this, gentlemen,”
and the driver spoke with emotion, “ this lad here
has walked four miles in the teeth of the storm to
signal us that part of the line, further down, has
been washed away. He has been here over an
hour, all by himself, and it’s just come to this,
that, but for him, we would have shortly
been in Heaternity.” The way the driver
pronounced that word made us give a
fervent cheer. We pressed round the youngster
and gripped his hand. Someone suggested a
collection, and it was no sooner said than about
£l5 was gathered and given to the “ ’ero,” as the
old gentleman of the “sixties” called him. The
engine-driver, still in his emotions, said he
reckoned there ought to be a thanksgiving service,
and a messenger was sent to bring the parson.
He came along, but without the red-haired, who
said they “weren’t religiously inclined.” The
parson was in his element. In the invocative
language of his sect he called down countless
blessings on the back-block youth, and perorated
a supplication that all young Australia should lie
as “ this lamb.” The finale of “ Amens ” showed
he had struck a unanimous congregation. We
prepared to say good-bye to the lamb, and
arrange a walking party to the next station for
help. As the youngster moved silently away and
mounted a barbed-wire fence to get the short
track to “dad’s place, five miles off,” we sent up
the lustiest round of cheers that has ever been
given, or ever will be given, in that gloomy, far-
away bush.
* * * *
There were twenty in the help party to the next
station. The parson was included. He said he
felt in a holier atmosphere—presumably because
he had parted from the red-haired. We walked
four miles along the roughest of rail tracks, fagged
but joyful. We were sustained by thoughts of
the “’ero” who had done so much for us. No
sign of a washed-away line appeared at the four-
mile point. The youngster had evidently walked
further than he thought. No break-away at five
miles, none at six, none at seven. “ What won-
derful endurance the lad had, and what modesty !
It was an explanation from a crippled and belated
parson. We were too tired to reply. At the
eight-mile point, as dawn crept over the hills,
twenty angry, cursing men, the parson included,
mounted into the next station. Only the red-
haired lovers did not curse.
X.X.X.
ON THE HEAVENLY BUST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I wandered
with Babs in
the moonlight
She whispered,
a-gaze at the
stars:
“0, Daddy,
Dod’s giving
a smoke-night.
The angels are
puffing cig-
ars!”
TICKET-TAKER.


The Arizona Bullock-Driver.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SOMETHING TO THINK OVER.
“ Did y'ever notice that when yer see five cows all lookin' the same way, the one that’s lookin’
t’other way's bound ter he a hull!"
HE was just the kind of man whose word
you would take, perhaps, if he had
nothing else to offer, and you wanted
something very badly ; but any citizen who took
it more than once as security for anything sub-
stantial would only have himself to blame.
He had done very many things in the course of
a long career in “The States,” and, though he
appeared to have come out ahead most times, the
wrack and ruin which attended his “scoops”
always entailed a hasty departure from the scene
of triumph. He had not only been everywhere
and done everything in his own country, but he
seemed to have done everybody. He had tended
bar, taught school, been a cowboy on the plains,
run a faro bank, driven a railroad engine, held-up
an express train on the Overland, and conducted
and departed with the National Bank of Deposit.
From what I could gather, the last was the
effort which brought him down and compelled him
to emigrate. While the deposits continued to
come in he carried on all right. But when there
was a falling off in the incomings and a devastating
increase in the withdrawals, he declared the
innings of depositors closed, and faded out of the
State like a thief in the night.
I asked him why he didn’t stay and go formally
into suspension.
He said if he had stayed till the first depositor
A PROPER PRECAUTION.
FATHER CASSIDY (to little Denis Flanagan-
time, 10.30): “ And is it now you!re goin’ to
school, Denis?”
DENIS: “Yes, Father.”
FATHER CASSIDY : “ And sure, don’t you know
you’re an hour late?”
DENIS : “ Yes, Father.”
FATHER CASSIDY (wrathfully): “ And—and
where are your hooks?”
DENIS: “In the seat ov me trousers.”
got him he would have gone fatally into “sus-
pension.”
Now, Arizona was a liar.
I knew it at the time, but his lies were nicely-
coined conceptions, and when he started in to tell
us of his experiences in Maoriland, we gathered
round and listened.
In a prospectors’ camp anything goes which is
not too lame and limp to crawl out of the mouth.*
of the raconteur into the ears of his auditors, andll
of Arizona’s stories it rnusb be said they were
fresh from the mint of the imagination of a man
who could give Rougemont pounds and a beating.
We were on Kurnalpi at the time, in the days
when gold seemed to grow in the ground. We
were “on it,” and, therefore, while we didn’t give
a hang for yesterday, we also didn’t give a d—n
for to-morrow. And Arizona’s yarns kept a few
of us from putting too many bricks into the
castles in Spain we built after supper and before
turn-in.
* * • •
“When I struck Maoriland,” he said, “y’see I
wasn’t anxious to know many people, at least not
for a few months, so I just banked what money I
had got (it bein’ the little that was left of
the National Bank of Deposit), in another name,
but I sort of kep’ off till things would blow
over, ’n I lit out f’r fresh territory with celerity
’n any other rapid animal you like to mention.
“ I just natur’lly went into the back country and
kept on goin’ till I thought it was good enough to
try and stake a lot. Thought I’d ask Fr a job
next likely place I come to. It was a farm (ain’t
goin’ to give no names, as I’m goin’ back there if
this thing pans-out) ’n I tackled th’ boss.
“ ‘Want any hired help,’ says I,
“ ‘ Yep,’ he says ; ‘ what c’n you do T ’
** * Oh ! most everything,’ says I.
“‘Drive bullocks?’
“‘Can’t do nothin’else,’l says; ‘brought up
amongst cattle since I was that high.’
“ ‘ All right, ’ he says, ‘go in the kitchen’n get
somethin’ to eat, ’n then come out here ’n have a
smoke ’n a yam.’
“Well, seemed to me I’d got most all I was
playin’ for, but I didn’t know th’ first thing about
drivin’ bullocks, ’n just how I was goin’ to get
along was what kept bobbin’ up in my mind all
meal-time.
“Anyhow, I got a good feed in’n went out-
side. There was, maybe, four or
five men outside when I went inside,
but when I come out there was
about forty.
“Couldn’t make out if this was the
reg’lar thing. But I found out pretty
soon it wasn’t.
“ That there farmer had just been and sent his
boy up to the township and told every lost loafer
in the place ’et he’d got a Yankee cow-puncher
down to his farm was goin’ to do some fancy bull-
gaddin’ next mornin’.
“ I told ’em yarns till turn-in ; and long about
’n hour before sun-up that old farmer he rooted
me out to get breakfast and get goin’.
“ After eatin’, went down to a corral, where
he’d got about a dozen oxen waitin’ f’r to be put
into harness.
“He got up on the fence ’n began to smoke,
Th’ whole male, ’n considerable of the female
population, they—anyway the males did—got up
■on the fence ’n began to smoke, too. To
preserve the harmony of the outfit for the sake of
Symmetry, so to say, I got up on the fence V
began to blow a cloud.
“ After a few minutes, the boss, he says, ‘ Say, r
says he, ‘ ain’t y’ goin’ to yoke-up ? ’
“ I drops down into the yard, and has a look at
’em, ’n’ one big- ox—l guess he was Bft. high—he
came at me like a four-legged clap of thunder. I
beat him to the fence by a foot.
“ ‘ What’s the matter ? ’ says the boss, after he
got up (he’d fell off the fence with laughin’, an’
so’d about a dozen more of ’em).
“ ‘ Well,’ I says, says I, ‘ there ain’t nothin’ the
matter so far, but there pretty soon will be.
’Twan’t nothin’’t all t’ laff at t’ I could see, for
that son of a cow of a bull, he got his horn right
into my pistol pocket. If I’d been two seconds
slower gettin’ away he’d ’a’ ripped me clean from
Maine to Texas.’
Ain’t had much experience o’ colonial cattle,’
he says.
“ ‘ Not yet,’ I says. ‘ I’ve had pretty nigh ’&
much’s I want, though.’
“‘Couldn’t you show us how they handle’em
in America ? ’ he says.
I couldn t make out how he knew I was ait
American, ’cos I hadn’t told him. Anyway, I
' says, ‘ Bring me a rope ’n’fl’ll show you.’ So they
a long hide-lariat; ’n’ I makes a loop on
| the end of it, and gets the fence.
“ 4 Now,’ says I to one of the coves on the fence,
‘just you go acrost there, ’n’ drive ’em round.
Well, he did, ’n’ as they passed I dropped the
loop on the neck of one of the oxen ’n’ took a turn
round the post ’longside me.
44 Soon’s ever he felt the strain, he made a break
to get away, the rope tightened on his neck, he
made a buck to get free, tipped right over back
ways, ’n come nigh breakin’ his neck.’
44 4 That’s right,’ says I; ‘leave him there n
get me some more rope.’
4 4 4 What for ? ’ says the farmer.
“‘lm goin’ to rope ’em all first,’ I says, n
then .’
444 No I’ll be gawdammed if you are, says the
farmer. 4 Here, cut that there rope, Jim,’ he says
to one of the chaps, ’n the rope bein’ cut the bull
nacherally got up.’
“ 4 Ever drive bullocks ? ’ he says.
“ 4 No,’ I says.
“ 4 Ever see ’em druv ? ’
“ 4 No.’
“ 4 Thought not,’ he says. 4 Come on up to the
house; it’s noon-time now; ’n then you go along up
to Smith’s pub. He wants a cove to feed pigs
and rouseabout, ’n I think you can manage that
job. It seems about your size.’
“’N I went.
“That evening the sun of this free country went
down on the spectacle of the late President of the
National Bank of Deposit carryin’ slops to a
female pig with a large family.”
W. A.
KOLA.
The Battler’s "Waterloo.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE Battler gazed at his mate, the new-
chum, for some minutes in mingled pity
and contempt. The latter had returned
from the Rover’s Rest with an empty billy
and his last and only sixpence spent. “Nice
place that to send a man to cadge beer,”
he said. “I called for a drink, and went
through the whole performance as you explained,
but only succeeded in making
an ass of myself. He waited
till I finished my pint and
handed him the sixpence;
then told me if I wanted
more I could darn well pay
for it, or make myself scarce.”
The Battler shook his head
in disgust. “Have you the
ordacity to stand there and
tell me you let a gumsucking
chump like him show you a
point ? ”
“ Considering it was old
Hardtrack himself behind the
bar, I don’t think you could
have done any better your-
self.”
“He, indeed,” snarled the
Battler, rising from his seat
on the log and reaching for
the billy. “Don’t think I
could have done any better,
do you ! I’ll soon show you
all about that”
It was a tough battle, but
the experienced man of the
track, after much labor, so
far prevailed upon the publi-
can that he consented to fill
the billy upon the Battler
agreeing “to chop some wood
for the missus” —a stipula-
tion which the man of wit
at first felt inclined to in-
dignantly resent. But, re-
membering his proud boast
to the new-chum, and being
determined not to go back
empty-billied, he reluctantly
rolled up his sleeves, and was
taken to the wood-pile by
the boss. After about ten
minutes’ work, he gathered
the result of his labor into an imposing heap, wiped
the perspiration from his brow, and, taking the
billy which the publican handed him, hurried
back, flushed with the conscious pride of success.
“Well, what luck?” queried the new-chum,
when the Battler at length arrived.
“What luck do you suppose?” sneered the
latter, lifting the lid triumphantly from the can.
“ Do you imagine I’ve been livin’ on my wits for
the last twenty years, an* not know enough
to ”
But just here the Battler’s lip fell almost to the
ground, and his face turned the color of a betrayed
ghost.
“What’s the matter?” asked the new-chum,
calmly.
“ Matter ! ” gasped the Battler, jumping to his
..feet and giving the billy a vicious kick; “ why, the
d fraud has filled the billy with dirty water!
But I’ll get even with him,” he added savagely,
shaking his fist; “ I’ll teach him ! ”
“Nevermind, old fellow,” interrupted the new-
chum, merrily; “ better have a taste of this bottle
of whisky that I collared from the shelf while old
Hardtrack was outside watching you chop that
wood. I’ve got a couple of cakes of tobacco here,
too, and more cigars than we’ll smoke between
now and Xmas.”
“Hand me the pannikin,” said the Battler,
knocking the head off the whisky-bottle and lean-
ing thoughtfully against the gum-tree.
VIC.
BARRY SPRAYTON.
“ Canip ” : Not long ago, at a way-back
Q. pub., I noticed some youngsters eyeing a recum-
loa nt drunk, and when said drunk began to roll
about, an elfish girl screamed, “Daddy, daddy !
Di isty’s rollin’! ” Dad rushed out, jerked Dusty
on to his feet and impelled him off the verandah
wfith a No. 10 boot. “Got ter get the kids to
watch’im,” he explained. “’E ain’t drunk, but
rxvhen ’e sees a cove lyin’ drunk on ther verandah,
ipe lies down, too, an’ rolls till ’e gets ’longside;
M then he goes through the bloke’s pockets. I know
r Mr. Dusty Bob, and so does the kids.”
Bush Hospitality,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I RECEIVED a cordial invitation to mak«
one at a symposium in the back-room
of the “ Overlanders’ Retreat,” first
night I arrived at Brolgatown. Proceed-
ings opened with a “shout” by me for all
hands. This i 3 a point of etiquette in a bush
township, if the stranger is desirous, as I
was, to create a favorable impression. Talk
on the usual bush topics ensued, until someone
volunteered to shout. The offer was declined
with virtuous indignation; times too bad; too
many present; too rough on one man. “ Yankee
grab ” to decide who should pay was vetoed by
the publican as being “agin the lor,” as “them
traps ” were about. “Selling a pony” was also
rejected—took too much time. There appeared
to be every chance of a deadlock, when the pound-
keeper saved the situation. He remembered a
game of his boyhood, and explained it. It caught-
on.
He cut as many slips of paper as thei'B were
roysterers present, wrote numbers on the slips,
folded, and placed them in his greasy cabbage-
tree. We each drew a slip, but were told not to
look at it. Then the poundkeeper said, ‘ 4 l call on -
Mr. Banks to call on someone to call a number.”
The divisional-board clerk was called upon and he -
cried “ 5.” It was then explained that whoever
held the slip with the number 5 upon it must
shout for the crowd. I held “ 5.” I shouted.
Presently another thought he would like to •
try. He made the slips, and, after the punctilious
observance of the same formalities, “13 ” was
called. I held “13.” I shouted again. “My
oolonial, you are unlucky ! ” said everybody. IT
agreed with everybody.
Then the bailiff wanted to try. When he had I
completed his arrangements, “7” was called.-
ONE TOUCH OF NATURE.
SLAVEY : “ I say, John, what for your country-
women squeezum feet in those funny little
shoes? ”
J OHN: “ Wha’ fo’ squeezum feet? Allee same
you squeezum bingey—get husban!”
No one had “ 7.” Someone hastily explained that
“ the blessed idiot ” was drunk, and recommended
everyone to destroy his slip. He would run the
show. He did ;“ 9 ” was the number, and I had
it! Everybody said :“ My blanky colonial, you
are unlucky ! ” I did not contradict anybody, but
shouted, according to the rules of the game. After
this we “sold two ponies.” The publican won-
both, and it was not until later on that it dawned j
upon me that the man next the publican com--
menced both times, that the publican put the-
number down, and that we were 20 in the room.
I am not clear how the remainder of the evening"
was spent, except that, as a wind-up, another trial
was made of the poundkeeper’s game. The law-
yer ran it. This time the number was “15.” /
had it ! The gathering was speechless at my bad
luck —or from tanglefoot. Some of them told me
before we broke up that they thought a lot of the
game; the formalities connected with calling the
number precluded any idea of collusion or hanky-
panky work of any description. It did not occur
to me to doubt that they thought a lot of the game.
Next morning I had to leave early, and went
into the bar before it was swept out, for a pick-
me-up. I needed one. Waiting for my refresher,
the numerous slips of paper on the floor attracted
my attention. I absent-mindedly picked some
up, and what I saw induced further examination.
Before I left the room I had spread out on the
table in front of me, 20 slips with “5,” 20 with
“13,” 20 with “7” (I remembered the bailiff was
drunk and made a mess of his game), 18 with
“ 9,” and 19 slips with “ 15 ” on them.
I have not visited Brolgatown since. I mean to,
some day. They were a nice lot of fellows. I
was a stranger and they took me in.
Q.
“NE'ER-DO-WEEL.


"Five Years.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I NEVER see a woman, save
To look upon and love her—
When I am hidden in my grave
I’ll wake when girls pass over.
When ladies tread
The earth o’erhead
I’ll stir once more my tomb in.
Ah ! pity me.
Ye people free—
I never see
A Woman !
I never see a girl go by,
With cheeks like stolen roses ;
No sun-rise lip or laughing eye
My prison-wall encloses.
These three years gone
I’ve lingered on,
This stony box of doom in;
And earnestly,
For long years three,
I’ve prayed to see
A Woman.
No high-heeled shoes of black or tan
Trip ’neath our barren gateway;
No soented hair or jewelled fan—
These things are off a great way.
These two years more
My body sore
Must sit this arid gloom in.
Ah 1 pity me,
Ye lovers free —
I never see
A Woman!
GRANT HER VET.
Captain Jones (of the “Bloodan-
fire”).
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WE were lying frizzling away at the wharf
of one of those grain ports, waiting for
the cargo to come along. It was a
God-forgotten hole, the only things pretending to
be alive there just then being the flies, the kanga-
roo-dogs and the Salvation Army. Our skipper
was a big lump of a man, with a red whisker on
him as would make a chafing-mat for all four
horns of the crosstrees, and the name of being
the loftiest swearer south of the line.
When Captain Jones, of the Salvation Army
(who was a female), got to hear of the old man’s
reputation, she took to marching her whole Hal-
lelujah regiment down abreast of the ship of an
evening, and they’d pray and fire off testimonies
and hymns at us, while the skipper romped up
and down the poop and cursed the Army, from
the General to the latest enlisted “hay-bag.”
This went on for a week or so, till we got to look
upon it as part of the day’s work. The “ Army ”
Captain gave it out as she intended to save our
man, and he, though a bit of a ladies’ man by
nature, just let her know, with pretty near as
much blasphemy as she herself used, as he’d see
her “cooked by the Devil first.”
The she-officer wasn’t no “ peach-blossom,” not
one of your apple-bowed craft, no gingerbread
work on her counter; straight up and down, she
was, with no run to speak of, and a fiddle-head
under her coal-scuttle bonnet as wouldn’t entice a
shark. All the same, she was of a powerful soul-
saving capacity, and, to judge from her own testi-
monies, had had plenty of truck along of sailor-
men long before we hove in sight. The skippers
of the other craft made bets on the result, and the
shore-folk got to strolling down on to the
wharf of an evening to see the fun. The
night before leaving, our skipper was in
great form, and cursed the regiment with such
strength that most of the people got away out of
ear-shot and some of the recruits were in tears.
Cap’en Jones, she stood facing him as he leant
over the taffrail, smiling and shaking her tam-
bourine, and every time he’d heave off an oath of
extra displacement she’d cry “ Glory!" or
“ Praiseellord !” as if she were enjoying herself.
“We’ll meet again, Cap’en ! ” she sang out before
they left. “ We’ll be supping with a long spoon
then, Mum, and be d dto you ! ” answered the
old man, and giggles to himself to think as how
he’d got to windward of her.
We left the next morning, and, having a fair
wind, were 100 miles on our passage before night-
fall. At 4 bells the next morning the ship’s boy.
THE DECEASED'S WHEREABOUTS.
PARSON: “I don't see your husband unth
you so much as on your honeymoon.
Has he grown cool?"
LADY PARISHIONER: “ Not
if what Too say is true.
He is dead!”
in getting coal up for the cook, found
Cap’en Jones coiled away down the fore-
peak. We gets a running bowline on to
her, and yanks her up on deck, where,
what with sliding about among coal-dust
for a day and a night, and a-humoring
the maldeemare, as had took her bad,
she didn’t “present a prepossessing ap-
pearance,” as they say in the papers. We
scrapes her down a bit, and the bos’un
totes her along aft, just as a big “Philadel-
phia lawyer” plumps on deck abreast
of the fore-braces, and washes them
away in a lump, over the main-hatch
and down under the spare spars to leeward.
We rescues the two of them—the bos’un the
most —for they being in holts, and she think-
ing he was trying to drown her was giving
him a real bad time. The language she used
after discharging the water from her limbers,
concerning the sea, the ship, and us, would have
got one of us three months before a “ beak ” any
day.
The Old Man was looking over the counter
at the garden-walks the chap at the wheel was
making, and didn’t notice them coming along till
close up against ’em. When he turned round he
gasped like a fish, and nearly fell over the side.
“ What the ? ” he whispers.
“ Halliluyar ! ” says Oap’en Jones.
"Take that she-devil away forud, out o’ my
sight, or I’ll heave you over the side ! ” he roars,
and he’d have made for port again if it hadn’t
meant beating dead to windward.
We makes up a bunk for her on the bo’sun’s
locker, and she became one of the ship’s company.
She hadn’t brought much dunnage aboard with
her, barring a concertina and a few hairpins and
things tied up in a handkerchief. So, after find-
ing her sea-legs, Cap’en Jones built a pair of
rationals out of old canvas to put ’em in. She
told us she hadn’t come aboard to loaf, and proved
a whale at work. After a while she’d go aloft as
high as the gallant-yard to stop the gear or make
up the gaskets. She earned her pea-soup making
“dandie funk,” “dog’s body” and “cracker
hash,” and doing tailor’s work on our clobber as
wanted mending.
Regular every second dog-watch Oap’en Jones
held a meeting on the fore-hatch and saved some
of us, with the barrel of the fore-winch as
“the penitent form,” till all for’ud had been
SINE QUA NON.
EFFIE (on hearing
that Adam and Eve
wore aprons of Jig-
leaves) : “ That was all very well for
' How-do-you-do,’ but how about ‘Good-
BYE? ’”
served with salvation. Some of those chaps’
testimonies would take the curl out of the
Devil’s horn. We started processing round
and round the deoks then, singing hymns fit to
burst, Cap’en Jones leading us backwards, and
what with the ropes,
as was stretched
across the decks
for the purpose by
them apprentices,
and coming up
agen the ringbolts,
she did come some
uncommon busters
just at first. The
skipper and the
afterguard soon
left off chucking
water over us from
the poop. They
couldn’t put the
whole crowd in
irons, and it
wasn’t any
use log-
ging us.
The second
mate and
the four
apprenti-
ces soon
joined us,
and after
a bit the mate
and idlers.
The hands took
to sounding out war-
cries on the braces. It
was “ Grioree ! Ai! Yah !
Ooh ! Aimen ! Ie ! I! ” Of a night
the lookout would roar “All aright
for’ud, sir, Praisellord ! ” And the
mate would answer, “ Put ’elm up—
brail spanker in—flatten-’em-’ead-sheets, Halle-
lujah.” Everything was done Army fashion
aboard, and we didn’t bust ourselves with work.
One night we was going it strong. “Little
Dub” was step-dancing on the fore-hatch, and
a-singing “ Washed in the Blood! ”to the Cap’en’s
concertina, when the Old Man, who’d been looking
done-up for some time past, come sneaking forud
and plops down at the winch-end—all broke up.
We all prays for him in turn, and some of us
didn’t forget to rub it into him neither in the
doing of it. Then Cap’en Jones puts her arm
round his neck and whispers into his whiskers for
a bit, and gives out as he’s saved. We none of us
did any work for a week afterwards. Everyone
aboard got saved that trip, barring the Malay
cook, who was stone-deaf, and the two pigs.
Cap’en Jones married the Old Man on making
port. The ship’s name is altered from the
Highway Belle to the Bloodanfire, and the Old
Man is only sailing-master of her now, her cap’en’s
name being Jones.
M.L.
F. MARRYAT NORRIS.
A farmer from Back-o’-Out-Back : “ Th’
counthry oub back-o’-beyant is in a fearful
state. How can it be otherwise whin we does
have nuthin’ at all but terrible dhry spells betune
th’ drewths ? ” How, indeed ?
My Bush Lovers.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I HAVE had three bush lovers. The first
was Alf. He was a lanky youth, and
• his coats were always green and too
short for him. He used to come in the morn-
ing, ' and stay about four hours; and he would
come again after tea. He was very devoted.
If my sister, or any other girl, said anything to
indicate a doubt as to my perfection, lie bit her
and hit her with his whip. He used to follow
me round everywhere I went, and would get quite
excited if be lost sight of me for a minute. He
liked to whisper in my ear —a thing I hate. He
would sprawl on the floor while I washed the
dishes and baked bread, and tell me what he
called “funny yarns.” He was very kind, and
always screamed with laughter when. I made a
joke; I liked him for that. He was useful, too ;
he put tin handles on the “ poley ” cups and jugs,
and mended a hole in the kitchen-floor.
And he was generous.
“ Here ! you oan have my watch if you like,”
he would say.
“ Oh, I don’t want it.”
“Here’s me penknife; it’s no good to me,”
“ N’ me either.”
“ I’ll give you me saddle.”
“I don’t want it, thanks.”
“ Well, would you like me horse ? ”
"No.”
“ Then, look here, I’ll bring you a blackfellah’s
skull; I know where there’s a whole heap.”
When he brought it I threw it away. His love
had survived a great deal of contumely, but it did
not survive that.
My next lover was Dave. He had a red beard,
and humpy shoulders. He used to wear legging 3
and spurs, and tilt his hat sideways to hide his
unseeing eye. He would swim the billabong
every Sunday, and arrive about 3 o’clock ; so at
half-past 2 my sister and I would hurry out after
the cows. We would hide among the lignum and
cane-grass, but he always found us. Mother in-
variably gave us away. He would glare at my
sister, and ask her why she didn’t keep back after
the cows. Then he would talk like this:
“You’re a funny girl! Why wouldn’t you let
me train your sheep-pup ? Will you come for a
ride with a chap to the wire yards ? ”
“ I ride every day.”
“Come for a drive to the white quandong
tree ? ”
“No.”
“What about goin’ for a walk to MoKie’a
grave ? ”
“No, thank you.”
“ Won’t you have anything to do with a ohap ? ”
“ No, I will not.”
HOMING BIRDS.
HAWKER (with homing pigeons): “I reckon most
of them'd find their way hack from the North
Pole?"
COUNTRY EDITOR: “ Yes, a large percentage of
returns—just like our paper—take 'em away."
“Well, if you ain’t the rummiest girl I ever
snapped.”
One day he went home indignant, and appeared
no more.
Then Bob came upon the scene. He was dark
and handsome, and wore a lavender tie, but hi 3
voice squeaked. For a long time he never
did anything much, except bring me lemons,
and little piles of conversation-lollies, with
“What about the ring?” “Be my loved one,”
“Love the giver,” “You are very sweet,”
etc., on them. And he talked about the
“wonderful toons on his father’s ponagraph.”
Then, one morning, I received a letter, telling me
I was “the only girl he ever loved,” and wouldlbo
his loved one. On getting my answer, he wrote
back to say he hoped the man I married would go
to the dogs, and take me with him. “But,” he
added, “you just pack up that concertina I gave
you, and send it back at once, will you ? ”
I am sadly wondering what my next lover will
be like. There does not seem to be muoh
variety in the bush.
N.S.W.
M. HUTTOR


The Lioness.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE proprietors were very proud of their
lioness Cleopatra, a languorous coquette
with beautiful, biscuit-colored fur, soften-
ing gradually to new cream on the inside of the
clean, elegant legs, those wonderful legs which
could fondle a moth with such dainty touches that
the insect escaped from the subtle caress with its
gold-powdered wings unruffled, but which always
Held a suggestion of swift and terrible death under
their casing of rich velvet.
Cleopatra was apparently blissfully content in
captivity. She had the most gorgeous cage in the
circus, and this was gratifying to her pride ; she
received more attention than any other beast in
the menagerie, and this satisfied her feminine
vanity. Weston and Best, the owners,. .once
endeavored to content Cleo. with a comparatively
plebeian habitation having rusted ugly bars and a
coat of faded yellow paint, but Her Majesty broke
into open revolt, and demoralised the whole
menagerie in her fury. fifteen minutes
there was mutiny in evefy cage, and the establish-
ment sent upsuch a roaring, bellowing, trumpeting,
neighing, and yelling, that panic fell upon half a
AT A CROWDED CONCERT.
HIS MAIDEN AUNT (who had taken him on her lap during interval: “ Now, sonny, you
may stand up for a little while.”
SONNY: "No, fear; some of those men might come and jump my seat.”
(He was rewarded in her will.)
town. Then Cleopatra was restored to her royal
apartment. In captivity Her Majesty’s meals
were sufficient and were regularly provided, and
this gave her ample time to devote to her toilet,
and she licked, and polished, and preened, until
her imperial flanks glittered as with many gems,
and soft lights ran and rippled over her whole
coat as upon running water. After that, what
higher joy in life, when the sun shone through the
glistening bars, than to lie extended, yawning
luxuriously on the clean sand, or writhing into a
thousand voluptuous curves, and be admired by a
gaping populace 1
But Cleopatra was labelled “Dangerous” in
large, red letters, and that enhanced her charm in
the eyes of patrons, who gathered at a respectful
distance beyond the rope barrier, and gazed in
awed silence at the arch, fastidious queen whose
caress meant death. The sign lent an additional
terrible attractiveness to the bold actions of Juan,
too—Juan the Dago, boon companion and confi-
dant of every animal in the show, from the latest
baby-elephant to Uncle Sam, the African lion,
patriarchal and dyspeptic—Juan, who was greasy
and unwashed always, and uglier than his brother,
the baboon—who had neither qualities nor morals,
and kicked or caressed his beasts indiscriminately,
and yet plucked the tail of the royal tiger with
impunity, and won covert and awkward offers of
tenderness from the Tasmanian devil, most morose
and irresponsive of brutes.
Juan thrust an arm into the cage, and dabbled
his fingers in the thick golden fur under Cleo-
patra’s chin, and Cleopatra rolled upon her back,
and kicked ecstatically. The Dago ran his
fingers down her chest and over her ribs, titil-
lating playfully, and the lioness squirmed with
the sinuous movements of an eel, and purred like
a happy cat on a warm hob.
“ Ah-h ! ” said Juan, “ look at—look at! But
slie ees feeckle—mos’feeckle. She like-a the man,
she kiss-a the han’. She no like-a the man—
huh ; ” j
Juan sprang towards the crowd, snarling, and
snapped viciously, and the thrilled spectators
backed and scattered before his bared yellow
fangs, little less hideous than those of the beast.
There were terrible stories of little royal lunches
snatched from the over-daring and the unwary,
who had found no favor with Cleo. and one man
hobbled about the circus on a crutch—his miss-
ing shinbone had been picked clean by the blonde
coquette. She had killed a horse, too, and there
was talk of the remains of a trainer, a shattered,
quaking, nerveless wreck, haunting an asylum-
yard in Melbourne. That trainer was a strong,
proud man and a king of beasts till he tried to
make of‘Cleopatra a creeping, servile thing that
would leap through burning hoops and caper
foolishly to the music of the band.
And now Cleopatra had broken loose and was
at large, and consternation was abroad in the
land. Waddy township was a two-days’ stand,
On the morning of the second day the door of the
lioness’s cage was found open-Cleopatra had
passed silently in the night. The terror spread
like the shadow of a driving cloud. There
remained not tl.e smallest cluo to hint in which
direction the beast had fled, so fear was evenly
distributed . over the whole district, and every-
where terrified men were hurriedly preparing
themselves to meet their Maker. Circus-hands
were sent galloping in 20 directions, seeking traces
of the fugitive, and armed bands skirmished
cautiously North, South, East and West, but
always near to “ easy and accessible ” trees, to the
heights of which the pursuers fled with ape-like
agility when any animal more formidable than a
bandicoot strayed into view.
Constable M‘Cathy of Waddy, in the bewilder-
ing moments following on the report of the escape,
had applied for and secured a warrant for the
arrest of one Cleopatra, illegally at large in the
district, and reasonably believed to harbor inten-
tions detrimental to His Majesty’s peace, and
dangerous to the lives of his liege subjects; and
now, py six
armed, anxious policemen
up from town, and backed
by a score of the most
intrepid of the electors provided with shot-guns,
duck-guns, rifles, and revolvers, the gallant officer
prosecuted a zealous search. His commando ex-
tended in a long line, beating through the bush in
the direction of Christmas Creek. Behind came
Cleopatra’s gilded cage drawn by two skewbald
horses ; before went J uan the Dago gesticulating,
tearing his lank, black hair, and cursing the guns
of the hunters with fluent blasphemies selected
from the vocabularies of many nations. The Dago
did not fear the lioness, but he hated those
ominous guns in the hands of his stuttering,
blundering company.
Juan wept, too, and mingled little prayers with
his blasphemies, appealing to the Virgin to pro-
tect his pet and return her safely to him, that he
might reward her for her desertion with long fast-
ings and ingenious little tortures of his own artful
devising.
He was a feeling man, this Dago.V When his
wife died as the result of a fall in the ring he was
inconsolable, and wept and cursed without inter-
mission till it was quite understood that Weston
and Best accepted all responsibility in connection
with medical fees and the expenses of interment.
He frequently shed tears over his animals when
he was not macerating them for his pleasure. But
Cleopatra was his “fine-a lady,” his “baba-baba,”
and it wrung his heart to think that some evil
might befall her other than such as he should
inflict to compensate for all this worry. So lie
cursed the beaters with their guns, cursed their
mothers, and all their progeny, and, to steady their
nerves, stopped the march every now and again,
and told of Cleopatra’s past evil doings.
“ She spring, ah, so—take-a the man like-a
this, the neck by. So, so ! Ah, eet is not-a good.
She tear same like-a you tear-a the skin of the
banan. Eet ees not-a good so much blood to see.”
Juan’s English was not excellent, but his panto-
mime was strikingly dramatic. The gluttony of
the famished animal at the throat of a human
victim, the growls choked in blood, the bared
fangs, the quick, tearing blows of resistless paws
—all were cunningly suggested, and the men shud-
dered at the horrible realism, and seemed for the
moment to see Juan’s subject stripped to his
bones. Then the crowd resumed its march, quak-
ing, and the Dago went before, murmuring his
simple prayer: , ,
“Ah, leetle-a mother make-a these dam-a fool
people shoot-a theirselves maybe. That not-a
matter. But ye beautifa Cleopart—ah, nevair !
Save-a ze pretty baba ! ”
* * *
The midday sun streamed down on Christmas
Creek, and the country simmered and baked under
it. Christmas Creek was represented by two
blasted, yellow slopes and a distorted stream,
yellow and sullen, like a creek whose course had
been shifted so often that at length it had quite
lost itself amongst them all, and had given up in
despair of ever finding its way again. There were
no trees visible till you topped one slope or the
other. Along the creek an old, clay-covered
puddler, and up the western bank a toppling,
stringy-bark hut, were the only landmarks.
Within the hut, seated on a kerosene-case at a
paling-topped table, built under the cabin
window, was a small, freckled, sandy boy of about
13, busily engaged eating fried eggs off a greasy
tin-plate. A frying-pan stood neglected on the
smouldering fire, sending far and wide a dis-
tressing odour of burnt fat; a bunk built for two
ran along the wall at the back of the boy ; a °
mutton hungfromtheridge-pole. Thehutcontained
nothing of interest but the boy; to the boy the
world contained nothing of interest just then but
fried eggs, and he was indulging himself in a
double dose, the “ ole man ” having gone up creek
prospecting for decent fossicking. The boy was
coated thickly with the puddled reef that reduced
all things on Christmas Creek to the same dull
yellow tint; he was small for his age apparently,
and his face held a queer suggestion of venerable
innocence. His freckles were not commonplace ;
they were large and brown, and stood out like
miniature frescoes, and the skin in between was
pink and glossy. Billy Titt was neither a pretty
nor a remarkably bright boy. _ ,
An enterprising minah stole into the hut,
hopping daintily sideways, with a bright bead of
an eye cocked for crumbs, but with an air of
jaunty indifference assumed to disguise marauding
intentions. Suddenly the bird fluttered his wings,
and flew away with a startled call, and m one
corner of the doorway, pressed close to the ground,
appeared a yellow head, just the yellow of Christ-
mas Creek. A moment later a large animal,
strange to the Creek and its precincts, writhed
into the hut like a great python, making so little
noise on the clay floor that the boy’s attention
remained absorbed in his eggs.
Evidently Cleopatra’s intentions were not
wholly dishonorable ; there was a certain sugges-
tion of amiability in her writhings ; she was sleek
and full, and when she raised herself upon her
hind-quarters, and pawed at the suspended leg of
mutton, it was with the playful interest of a
gorged tabby. At this instant Billy Titt dis-
covered his visitor ; his mouth opened, wide, but
the morsel of egg fell unheeded into his lap ; his
eyes slowly distended till they threatened to pop,
and he remained transfixed —spellbound, not with
terror, but with a sort of dull wonder. His mind
could not place the animal—he was troubled.
Cleopatra boxed with the swinging leg, and
Billy’s eyes wandering up to this discovered a
felonious intention, and instantly his spirit was
up in arms. Snatching the puddler’s whip he
lashed angrily at the lioness, in valiant defence of
property.
“ Gerrout o’ this, dam yer ! ” he cried.
Cleopatra went down with an elegant curve of
her long body, rolled gently and with vast con-
tentment, and lay on her back, idly dangling her
paws and rolling her head, and her subtle tail
swept the floor and ran wriggling up the wall like
a tassel ed serpent.
The boy stood rooted in the middle of the hut,
amazement tingling at every nerve, but without a
vestige of dread. He marvelled at this vaguely.
The lioness purred musically, and the royal coun-
tenance radiated benevolence.
“ Well, I’m blowed,” murmured Billy, absorbed.
Brightening up, he attacked her again at a ven-
ture. “ Out yer go, blast yer 1 ”
lie cracked the whip smartly, and Cleopatra
wriggled towards him, still on her back, squirm-
ing her long body into living arabesques, and
reaching out her velvet paws invitingly.
“ Outside !” cried Billy, kicking her tenderly
in the ribs. “ Out o’ this, yer blanky mongrel! ”
But the lioness only writhed more ecstatically,
and sparred gently with his foot as he gazed down
at her, painfully racking his unaccustomed brains.
“’Tain’t a dog,” he said, dreamily. “Too big
fer a dog. ’Tain’t a zebrer, neither. Zebrers has
hoops round ’em. ’Tain’t a lion, I bet —ner a
wolf, ner a giraffer.”
Billy Titt’s knowledge of natural history was
limited. There only remained the “rhinocer-hoss,’
and this animal did not seem to have the points of
any “ hoss” he had ever met.
“Gum! he’s a fair beauty, though,” he said
softly, and going down on one knee he patted
Cleopatra’s neck, whereupon the grateful queen
promptly took his hand in her mouth in an affec-
tionate grip.
“ Le’ go, yer thief !” blustered the boy, clouting
her soundly on the side of the head.
Cleopatra accepted the blow as a caress. Her
whole body twitched with enjoyment as Billy dug
his fingers into her beautiful fur, wondering at its
silky texture, and played with her great paws.
Suddenly Billy Titt conceived a brilliant idea:
“Someone must ’a’ lost him,” he said. He pon-
dered over this for a few moments, then blew a
startling whistle of gratification. He had dis-
covered a possible source of profit. “ They’ll be a
reward,” he cried.
Taking up the whip again, he tied the end of
the lash securely about Cleopatra’s neck, and sur-
veyed his work with quiet satisfaction.
“ Dad ain’t in this,” he muttered. “ Not much,
he ain’t. Loosin’s, findin’s, seekin’s, keepin’s.”
The repetition of this formula made his title sure.
“ Get over, cuss yer ! ” lie cried, aiming a kick at
Cleopatra, who had sent him nearly off his feet by
rubbing her head lovingly against his leg. The
lioness retreated, abashed.
“ByJimminy! the circus!” Here was another
idea. He had seen a poster on the big gum at the
cross-roads. “ They’s a circus up to Waddy.
Yes, that’s it. They’ll be a reward, all right.
Fain halves for the ole man—my oath ! ”
* • * *
Juan, the I)ago, was still leading his valiant
band of lion-hunters and still breathing touching
appeals to heaven between his curses, for the day
was hot, and no tidings of Cleopatra had been
gathered along the route. No work was in pro-
gress anywhere. The people of the district had
retired to their strongholds in impatient anticipa-
tion of the worst, and an intimation given through
a farmhouse keyhole that the calf of Holman’s
brown cow, Betsy, had gone missing was the only
piece of news that could be construed into a clue.
Juan, the Dago, raved, and swore to change his
gods if his “baba,” his “sister,” his “beautiful
lady ” was not restored to him ere sundown. Juan
was his “sister’s ” keeper ; responsibility for her
escape was on his shoulders, and for such men as
she might eat by the way he would have to
account in trial and tribulation.
The searchers had come through on to the edgo
of Cadden’s cleared land, and they loitered by
the timber, dubious about meeting a raging lioness
seeking whom she might devour in open country
that offered no cover. The Dago seized the oppor-
tunity to again impress the company with a sense
of the dangers of the chase. He wished to have
Cleopatra hunted, but not hurt.
“ She run-a to me like-a the goat the kid,” he
said ; “ lick-athe han’, Ah, so kin’.
come-a near—yah ! ” ' ”
Juan repeated his horrifying drama. At that
moment somebody called, and half-a-dozen hands
pointed towards the top of the bald hill facing
them, where the figure of a boy, sharply silhouetted
against the eastern sky, was rising slowly into
view. A few seconds later the boy was coming
jauntily down the slope, and, following at his
heels, docile as a terrier, with queer, loping
strides, breaking into an occasional little trot,
came the lioness.
Juan was pointing a tragic hand, his face was
transfixed.
“God’s Mother!” he whispered. “Look-asee,
she come —the lion ! ”
There was an instantaneous rush for the trees.
Two or three guns exploded, and one man was
hurt, and lay groaning on the grass, but the Dago
did not stir; the spectacle of the boy and tne
lioness seemed to fascinate him.
“The boy—the small-a boy,” he muttered.
“ What it mean ?” » v
Billy Titt increased ms pace, and Cleopatra
followed, her long body rolling in an easy trot.
A tinge of grey gathered in the hollows of the
cheeks of Juan, the Dago.
“ The boy ! The boy ! Ah, ut ees so ! He ees
one like-a me—he ees ze master.”
Juan never took his eyes off the beast, but as
she came nearer the grey deepened in his cheeks
and seized on his lips ; his limbs trembled.
“When Oscar he come she try-a to keel ze
Dutchman,” he whispered. “When I come she
make-a the try to keel Oscar. ’Tees not-a good for
me —not-a good for me ! ”
About fifty paces separated him from the
lioness when the nerve of Juan the Dago failed
him. He uttered a cry of terror, and, wheeling,
dashed for the nearest tree, and climbed swiftly to
its topmost limb.
Billy came to a standstill "beneath him, and
Cleopatra stood at his side, swinging her head up
and down against his leg. A whip lash was tied
about the neck of the lioness, and the boy carried
the handle under his arm.
“ Hello, Mister! ” cried Billy. “Do you know
anyone what’s lost a tiger ? ”
Juan tapped his breast nervously. “ I —l lose-a
the tige’,” he said. He pointed a trembling hand
towards the cage. “ Look-a the cage. You go.”
“Right y’are,” said the boy. “But yer
needn’t be scared of him, boss, he’s tamer’n kit-
tens. See.’’
Billy untied the whip-lash, and bestriding the
lioness rode her a few paces, when she rolled over,
and the two tumbled on the grass in play.
“Yes, ’tees so,” cried Juan. “Now, you go.
Put her by the cage, queek. ”
Billy took the beast by the loose skin of her
neck, and led her to the cage, and J uan followed
them with anxious, frightened eyes, muttering
under his breath.
“ Ah, ah, she ees feekle. On’y one-a frien’ she
haff. ’Tis not-a good for me—not-a good for-a
me.”
Cleopatra leaped lightly
into her cage, turned
round two or three times,
then stretched herself
yawning on the sand,
and fixed her eyes upon
the boy as he barred the
door. After which Juan
the Dago, king of beasts,
came down .. .from his
tree.
via
EDWARD DYSON.
"NEXT TO NOTHING."


The Bearers.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WITH some girVs king on their shoulders
sleeping,
They bore him so for her sorrow's sake—
The Night Waves trod to the sound of weeping
The long, lone road that the dead men take.
The slow tides lapped on the ribbed sand-ridges,
The Dawn-Waves laughed; and the Noon-
Waves slept,
And o’er the billowy, white-cloud bridges
The royal Sun and his red train swept.
But pale and cold in the dawn and twilight
A sailor’s corpse on the brown beach lay,
With eyes still fixed on some glorious high-light,
Tho’ lips were pallid and sunk cheeks grey.
The Dawn-Waves kissed with a longing tender—
(Who kissed the lips of the dead man last ?)
And, faltering in her star-song slender,
The night-wind wailed as she shivered past.
The stars peered down thro’ the gloom, and
wondered
What this might be which they could not name,
And then out seaward a breaker thundered —
A fierce wind screamed —and the Night-Waves
came.
They leaped and roared on the sand and boulders,
They shook the beach, yet they stooped to take
This nameless thing on their stalwart shoulders,
And soft they lifted for someone’s sake.
And swinging slow, with their vanguard keeping
Their ranks thrown wide and a pathway clear,
They bore the dead to the Pale Dawn, weeping
And moaning dirges for God to hear.
And “ Where march ye in your harness splendid ? ”
The south-wind asked, and the waves replied
“Another struggling life is ended—
Another woman is heavy-eyed.”
So through the night, with their black robes
trailing,
Bent low in sorrow the Night-Waves rolled;
And sweeping after, with bugles wailing,
The wind marched too —and a bell-buoy tolled.
With some girl’s king on their shoulders carried,
They thought of her and her grief to be,
They reached the Dawn and their leaders tarried,
And cursed God’s seas that these things should be.
M.L.
QUILP N.
The Cat.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FEW know anything about domestic ani-
mals—about their inner life and the
workings of their minds. Take, for
instance, the common roof-tree cat. Most
people think that the cat is an unintelligent
animal, fond of ease, and caring little for
anything but mice and milk. But a cat has really
more character than most human beings, and gets
a great deal more satisfaction out of life. Of all
the animal kingdom, the cat has the most many-
sided character. He—or she —is an athlete, a
A FINAL APPEAL.
LADY: “I hope you have no children .” He; “No, lady, they re all dead.
L ADY: I'm glad you have no children depending on you. Pm afraid I can t help you. If
you had had, I would gladly have given you a few shillings! ”
HE: “ It's true I have no children, lady, but ” (in desperation) “I've got three wives!"
musician an acrobat, a Lothario, a grim fighter,
a sport of the first water. All day long, the
cat loafs about the house and takes things easy,
and sleeps by the fire, and allows himself to be
pestered by the attentions of silly women and
annoyed by children. To pass the time away he
sometimes watches a mouse-hole for an hour or
two—just to keep himself from dving of ennui;
and people get the idea that this sort of thing is
all that life holds for the cat. But watch him as
the shades of evening fall, and you see the cat as
he reall is
, „ ,
When the family sits down to tea, the cat usually
puts in an appearance to get his share, and he
Burrs noisily and rubs himself against the legs of
the family and all the time he is thinking of a
fight or a love-affair that is coming-off' that even-
ing If there is a guest at table the cat is particu-
larly civil to him, because the guest is likely to
have the best of what food is going. Sometimes,
instead of recognising his civility with something
to eat, the guest stoops down and strokes the cat,
and says, “ Poor pussy ! poor pussy ! ” The cat
soon gets tired of that —he puts up his claw and
quietly but firmly rakes the guest in the leg.
“ Ow ! ” says the guest, “the cat stuck his claw
into me ! ” The family is delighted. It remarks,
“ Isn’t it sweet of him ? Isn’t he intelligent ?
He wants you to give him something to eat. ’
The guest dare not do what he would like to do
—kick the cat through the window —so with tears of
rage and pain in his eyes, he affects to be very much
amused, and sorts out a bit of fish from his plate
and gives it to the cat. The cat gingerly receives
it, with a look in his eyes as much a 3 to say:
“ Another time, my friend, you won’t be so dull
of comprehension,” and purrs maliciously as he
carries the bit of fish away to a safe distance from
the guest’s boot before eating it. A cat isn’t a
fool—not by a long way.
When the family has finished tea, and gathers
round the fire to enjoy the hours of indigestion
together, the cat slouches casually out of the room
and disappears. Life, true life, now begins for
him. He saunters down his own backyard,
springs to the top of the fence with one easy
bound, drops lightly down the other side, trots
across a right-of-way to a vacant allotment, and
skips to the roof of an empty shed. As he goes,
he throws off the effeminate look of civilisation ;
his gait becomes lithe and panther-lilce; he looks
quickly, keenly, from side to side, and moves
noiselessly, for he has many enemies dogs, cab-
men with whips, and small boys with stones.
Arrived on the top of the shed, the cat arches
his back and rakes his claws once or twice through
the soft bark of the old roof, then wheels round
and stretches himself a few times, just to see that
every muscle is in full working order ; and then,
dropping his head nearly to his paws, sends across
a league of backyards his call to his kindred his
call to love, or war, or sport.
Before long they come —gliding, graceful
shadows, approaching circuitously, and halting
occasionally to look round and reconnoitre
tortoiseshell, tabby, and black, all domestic cats,
but all transformed for the nonce into their
natural state. No longer are they the hypocritical,
meek creatures who an hour ago were cadging for
fish and milk. They are now ruffling, swaggering
blades with a Gascon sense of their dignity.
Their fights are grim, determined battles, and a
cat will be clawed to ribbons before he’ll yield.
Even the young lady cats have this inestimable
superiority over human beings that they can fight
among themselves, and work off the jealousy,
hatred, and malice of their lives in a sprawling,
yelling combat on a flat roof. All cats fight, and
all keep themselves more or less in training while
they are young. Your cat may be the acknow-
ledged light-weight champion of his district—a
Griffo of the feline ring ! Just think how much
more he gets out of his life than you do out of
yours—what a hurricane of fighting and love-
making his life is—and blush for yourself. You
have had one little love-affair, and never a good,
all-out fight in your life !
» * * •
And the sport that they have too ! As they get
older and retire from the ring they go in for sport
more systematically, and the suburban backyards,
that are to us but dullness indescribable, are to
them hunting-grounds and try sting-places where
they may have more sport and adventure than ever
had King Arthur’s knights or Robin Hood’s
merry men. Grimalkin decides to go and kill a
canary in a neighboring verandah. Consider the
fascination of it—the stealthy reconnaissance from
the top of the fence; the care to avoid waking the
house-dog; the noiseless approach and the hurried
dash upon the verandah, and the fierce clawing at
the fluttering bird till the mangled body is dragged
through the bars of the cage ; the exultant retreat
with the spoil; and the growling over the feast
that follows. Not the least entertaining part of it
is the demure satisfaction of arriving home in time
for breakfast and hearing the house-mistress say:
“Tom must be sick; he seems to have no
appetite. , . ,
It« always levelled as a reproach against cats
that they are more fond of their home than of the
people m it. Naturally, the cat doesn t like to
leave his country, the land where he has got all
FAITHFUL OVER A
FEW THINGS.
INSOLVENT-LOOKING INDIVIDUAL: "My
word, ’e is a faithful brute. W'enever I put my
swag down like that ’e always plants ’imself on top of it, an’, my
oath, if you was to try to sneak it I Why, look ’ere, me an ’im
’as tramped it thousands o’ miles an’ through some o the roughest
country you ever see; an’ if you’ll b’lieve me, he’s never let me lose
the vally of a ten-purC note!”
his friends, and where he. knows every landmark.
Exiled in a strange land, he would have to learn,
a new geography, would have to find out all about
another tribe of dogs, would have to fight and
make love to an entirely new nation of cats. Life
isn’t long enough for that sort of thing, and so,
when the family moves, the cat, if allowed, will
stay at the old house and attach himself to the
new occupiers. He will give them the privilege
of boarding him while he enjoys life in his own
way. He is not going to sacrifice his whole career
for the doubtful reward which fidelity to his old
master or mistress might bring.
* * * *
And if people know so little about Cats, how
much less do they know about the Dog? This
article was started as an essay on the dog, and the
cat was only incidentally to be referred to ; but
there was so much to say about cats that they
have used up all the space, and a fresh start must
be made to deal with the dog the friend of man.
THE BANJO.
The Kiss of Trooper 93.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WAR-FEVER was raging in Brisbane,
and the pretty Misses Sinclair, of
Buckalong station, had caught it
in its worst form on this, their brief visit
to town. They had the misfortune to be stay-
ing with a maiden aunt, who had no sympathy
for the Cause and a mania for striking everything
in khaki off her visiting-list, so the girls knew no
one going in the Contingent and had to content
themselves with spending all their spare cash in
medallions of Kitchener and decorating their hats
with emu feathers as an outlet for their enthu-
siasm. Kitty, the eldest and prettiest, netted
doyleys by the dozen and sent them to the officers
anonymously, and dreamed day-dreams of a sunny
veldt and picnic lunches where the little mats might
have a place. Emily, more practical, scraped
acquaintance with a girl who had a cousin going
as a private, and learned all about the departure of
the men, and arranged matters so that she could
escape with her sister to town on the great
day to witness the embarkation. And so, with
cheeks glowing like the poinsettia flowers along
the route, the girls mingled with the hurrying
crowds, while everyone roared “ Soldiers of the
Queen” and “ Sons of the Sea,” and beer flowed
like water, and women cried, and children
screamed, and the raw recruits tasted the charms
of a crowd’s ovation without having had any dis-
agreeable experience of shot or shell to merit it.
It really was a grand sight, and the Misses Sin-
clair kept step with the troopers, and stuffed
packets of sweets into willing hands in a manner
which would have turned old Donald Sinclair’s
hair grey with rage and horror.
It was on the wharf that Kitty met Trooper 93.
“ There’s no one to take adoo of me,” he had
remarked, cynically, to a comrade who had just
been smothered in the kisses and caresses of
several hysterical women.
Kitty heard the words, and their pathos went
to her heart.
“Let me wish you ‘God-speed,’” she said,
shyly, “ and a safe return.”
“ Thank you, Miss ; but, as sure as eggs is eggs,
there’s no return for me,” said the man, bitterly.
“Trooper 93 is good to lay his bones out there,
and no one cares a damn. Beg pardon, Miss, but
it’s hard lines.”
“It is,” said the girl, her blue eyes filling with
tears. “ Oh, you brave, brave men—all our hearts
are with you to-day! ” and her voice broke with
emotion.
Trooper 93 wept in
sympathy (Bulimba beer
rouses all the pathos in
some men’s natures) and
he seized Kitty’s hands
in his own.
“ Oh, go on ! you don’t
care ; no one cares,” he
said.
“But I do—l do," said
Miss Sinclair. Everyone
was crying and kissing
and shaking hands. All
round her, warriors were
taking leave of their
sweethearts and wives
(and other people’s) with
equal fervor and indis-
crimination and Kitty
did not mind a bit when
Trooper 93 clasped her
to his manly bosom and
kissed her “with a kiss
that should have raised a
blister. ” Already in
imagination she saw him
stretched out on the
lonely veldt, while savage
Boers poured bullets into
his heart. He was giving
his life for his country,
and no one cared, no
one wished him God-
speed, but a stranger.
Five minutes after-
wards he was borne from
her by the crowd, then
his face appeared for a
moment near the taffrail
as the vessel swung to
the tide.
“You will write to
me,” she cried. “ You
will come back—to me
—promise me ! ” Where-
upon 93 nodded his head
and waved his arms,
and presently faded from
view.
Miss Sinclair felt just a little bit ashamed of
herself when she thought things over that night,
but the romance of the situation appealed to her.
Gentlemen by the score had gone as privates, and
.surely he was one. Through the days that fol-
lowed, when she returned to Buckalong, she
traced the path of the Second Contingent with
pins and a map, and exalted her warrior more and
more, though the casualty-list or any other list
left his name severely alone, and away in Brisbane
the war fever abated, and with each despatch the
enthusiasm grew less, and mournful soldiers of
the later lots had no hero-worship and very few
kisses to help them on their way.
• * * *
Shearing was in full swing at Buckaiong.
The big station hummed like a hive. Donald
Sinclair was of the old school and believed that
women should be kept in cotton-wool, and so
Kitty and Emily had remarkably dull lives in the
creeper-covered station house. But the weekly
visit which they paid to the shed was a triumphal
progress. They wore their prettiest gowns and
basked in the humble admiration of the wool-
rollers and bale-branders and shearers. It was
their first visit this season. They bowed sweetly,
if distantly, to the jackaroos who were driving in
some sheep as they passed, and they nodded con-
descendingly to the rouseabouts as they entered
the shed, picking their way daintily over the
shiny floor, and turning up their dear little noses
at the strange odor of tar and grease and oil
which pervaded the woolshed. Women out West
are a scarce commodity, and these two pretty
ones enjoyed the excitement they created as they
stopped to time the ringer with Kitty’s gold stop-
watch, and knew that every lightly-clad and
grimy shearer was stealing furtive looks at them,
and keeping the tar-boys busy in consequence.
A tall shearer next the ringer shoved his shorn
wether down the slide and yawned and stretched
himself. He wore a very greasy flannel shirt and
tarry moleskins. He. had big ears and a freckled
face and small, rather watery, blue eyes. Instead
of going to the pen for another sheep, he strolled
over to the girls and said —
“ Good day, Miss. I’d have been up to see you
if I’d a-known. I forgot your address, so I did.
You’re looking real well.”
All the blue blood ©fall the Sinclairs boiled in
their descendant’s heart.
“What impertinence!” she said. “Go back
to your work at once ! Where is the overseer ? ”
“Oh! you’ve forgotten me, have you?” said
the man. “Well, I s’pose Ido look different in
this rig-out. Remember Pinkenbar and Trooper
93—8i1l Symons, don’t you know ? ”
Then Kitty remembered. “ I—l—think you
are mistaken —it —it wasn’t me,” she stammered.
An awful vision of her father’s great bushy eye-
brows, on end with rage, assailed her. Her one
idea was to escape from the vicinity of this ghost
of the past.
“Oh ! that’s your game, is it! ” said the man,
carelessly; “so-long, miss. The best thing I got
out of soldiering for the Queen was that send-off.”
And he walked away whistling and chuckling at
the memory of past delights.
And Kitty thanked her stars that her father’s
back had been turned during the scene, and was
for ever cured of the lingering remnants of “ war-
fever.”
Q.
ETHEL MILLS.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.


N l_ l I
It I
ZfeflXtS called 017 1
vvl/ile I
life l*ttgV W\s I
Oat" Otj beojp i
Ke el by tfj e 1
Wf)° J
l sayGMled: I
I 0f5.V1.70 ]
l/is *i*v\e-Zevw I
Carelessly drew 1
(peeliMd) \n I
ajiso tally lately I
perfect circle |
on life door— 1
jjost' Sav» * I
"I’d! I?.iv
| <3rfev< i^iaCr 1 I
T
N? 2
Wljeij
I W)\
Ifje circle of
'course retoQnge^
I zX otjce. Itye Work
of ~P'ew*>
°^X r
M'l lTO r ®t , lf c^
y 4/t5 1
do W't'ofW'*
tircki
h, S frieryd "if
iij/ of*,
|)3\' r of dote Wir/^s
V<S ctyeese-
tlollT h««7
(cbecseciottf Ixl*s
Bot/d SI stye •»;
fose .
'WexftimeZeW
X^ih n 7 i
I aia
off r/e ouT
Z*<W 5A ld "k*
he Vd" exiled W^t*
Pee 7 ye^
<T
THE DAWN OF CARICATURE.


PIEBALD POSSIBILITIES—A LITTLE AUSTRALIAN CHRISTMAS FAMILY PARTY OF THE FUTURE.


Smarty.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IN the busy goldfield days, Old Smarty, as
even the juniors called him, was the
keenest gold-buyer and branch-manager
in the service of the Austral Bank. Drink-
ing-habits, contracted in those free-and-easy
times, had, however, gradually got such a
hold of him that from his position of branch-
manager he descended by stages of branch-
accountant, ledger - keeper, cash - bookkeeper ;
and then, as a last chance, he was consigned to
the oblivion of the Old Note Room at the end of
a dark passage on the top storey of the bank build-
ing. To this room came all notes whose term of
service was done. Torn notes ; notes grimy with
usage ; notes whose last resting-place had been
under a Chinaman’s evil mattress, or against the
filth-encrusted body of some Assyrian hawker;
blood-drenched notes ; filth-besmirched notes; fire-
damaged notes; liquor-stained notes —all com-
bined to poison the air.
Here Smarty’s assistant, a young imported
Irishman named Denny, sent to the room in ex.
piation of his awful crime of cheeking an in-
spector, made the evil-smelling notes into bundles,
in order of their consecutive numbers and dis-
tinguishing letters, and stamped each across its
face with the word ' ‘ Cancelled ” and the date in
large, red letters Then he read the numbers out
to Smarty, who wrote the date of cancellation
against corresponding printed numbers in a
COMPARISONS ARE ODIOUS.
SHE (at the Zoo) : “Wheally—what horrid long necks !”
THE CAPTAIN: “ Yaas, bai Jove! And what beastly thin legs ; and what
widiculously poor condition altogetliah, bai Jove !”
register. It was Smarty’s duty, as responsible
officer, to check the notes with the register, tie
them up, seal the knot and place the bundles in
the safe to await the periodical cremation in the
bullion-office furnaces. But Smarty, as a rule,
could not be bothered with his duty. He had
every confidence in Denny, and, indeed, a great
affection for him. For when he was over-
come by his enemy, drink, and started
on his customary four-days’ spree, Denny
never failed to engineer him out of the office by
devious routes guaranteed by friendly scouts to be
free of bosses, and to place him in a cab to send
him home. Smarty would appear next morning
in good order to sign the attendance-book, and
would then disappear for the day, until the spree
was ended. If, during his absence, an inquisitive
boss, with no respect for his nose, penetrated as
far as the Old Note Room, Denny was always to
be relied on to lie circumstantially and with
marked ability as to Smarty’s whereabouts.
Denny moved in “good society,” and was to be
married in a month to a widow of means.
• * » *
Smarty, quite sober, waited for Denny to
return from lunch. Tired of doing nothing, and
not feeling inclined for his customary after-lunch
snooze, he strolled over to Denny’s table, on
which were some bundles of notes, took up the
smallest, consisting of ten-pound notes, and sat
down to write them off in the register. The num-
ber of the top note had been already written off,
and the date in the register 'ivas a month ejone-by.
He checked the number. It was quite correct.
He examined the note. It had not been stamped.
Thinking perhaps he had made a clerical error, he
tried another note. That one was all right. He
wrote it off and tried the next. Again the number
in the register corresponding with the note had
been written off a month previously—on the same
date as the first note. Smarty went steadily
througli the remaining notes. Nineteen of them
had been written off on the same date as the first
one he had tried—£2oo in all.
“The young villain ! ” muttered Smarty, “that’s
how he manages to cut such a dash on £l5O a-
year, putting cancelled notes into circulation and
not stamping them until they turn-up again.”
Just then Denny came in with ash-grey face
and twitching lips. Smarty stood lip and
flourishel the notes. “Look here, my gay young
spark, that pretty little game of yours is up.”
Denny smiled faintly at the old man’s red,
wrathful face, and said: “You are just in time,
Smarty. Here is a note from the chief clerk say-
ing lie will be up to check and take over the can-
celled notes early next week, and there are a lot of
them still out. It’s just damned bad luck. I hoped
to hang-out until I was married, and then, when
they found-out, to have owned-up and paid the
money. I meant to have made you all right, if
they sacked you, too.”
“Sacked me!. Why the devil ,” said
Smarty, and then swore softly, but with emphasis.
“You mean for not checking the notes before I
sealed them ? By God ! you have done for me all
right.”
There was a long silence, in which Denny sat
despondent, with his face in his hands, while
Smarty alternately scratched his head and gazed
at the ceiling in search of an inspiration.
“Look here,” he said, suddenly; “you were to
have £lO,OOO settled on you, on marrying. Is that
right ? ”
“Yes, on my wedding-day,” said Denny.
“ But she will give me up when she hears of this.”
“That’s just it. She must not hear of it. You
are bound to be bowled-out when they check the
notes, and lam bound to be sacked. Now, if I
am sacked, I starve ; that’s certain. lam too old
to get another chance, and, anyhow, I don’t fancy
hard work for nothing a-week. Now, here is my
plan : You go down with these notes and report
me for stealing them. That saves you and the ten
thou. I’ll own up to it, and trust to my long
service to save me from more than dismissal.
Even if they do
prosecute, I’ll
see it through
and do the time.
They won’t give
an old man like
me much for a
paltry £5OO or
so. Now, in re-
turn, you must
give me a signed
confession and
ten signed pro-
missory -n o t e s
for £2OO each,
payable on the
Ist January of
each successive
year. We want
this between
ourselves, or
else I would get
a lawyer to fix
up a deed. If I
live longer than
that I will trust
to you to keep
up the pay-
ments, especi-
ally as I shall
have the confes-
sion. Is it a
go?”
“ Will a duck
swim ? ” said
Denny, holding
out his hand.
“Let’s go and
have a drink.”
Smarty was
called before the
directors and in-
formed that, after due consideration, they had
decided not to prosecute him, in view of his age
and valuable services in the early days, but to con-
tent themselves with summarily dismissing him.
For many years he lived in a quiet suburban street,
and before his gate there often stood a stylish dog-
cart whose panels bore a crest of two clasped hands,
under which are the words “ Fidem teneo.”
ESMI.
A Bunch of Waratahs.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THERE were only three in the compart-
ment—a man of thirty-five, a woman
of twenty-three or four, a woman of
sixty who doesn’t count. She was comfort-
ably short - sighted, and was reading the
“Master Christian.” The man stared at the
young woman. She was fresh and sweet to look
upon, and he had seen few women these many
years.
She did not seem to notice him, so probably she
did. Her task, correcting exercise-books, showed
she was a school-teacher. Where had he met
with such eyes—violets seen through a mist ?
Presently a station was reached, a plat-
form on the mountains. There was a little girl
hawking waratahs. The man feared that the
teacher was going to get cui.
What a farce, he thought, sulkily, are our social
conventions ! Here is a girl I want to know.
Because we don’t happen to live in the same vil-
lage she will pass out of my life for ever. I may
not even speak to her. And on Saturday Igo
back to my lonely Westralian station, and ....
The train was just moving off when he noticed
the little girl on the platform. She had been all
day gathering the flowers, and lo ! this was the
last train, and she had sold not a single bunch.
He saw at a glance how near she was to tears,
and, just in time, leaned out of the window, A
moment more and a florin was in her hand, and a
great bunch of waratahs in his.
The young woman noticed the impulsive bene-
faction, and looked into the strong burnt face with
a quick glance of approval. Then she gave the
exercise she was correcting three marks too much
—which caused some heart-burning in class next
day. The next station was hers, and she began to
collect her books.
The man despairingly watched
her. He opened the door with
one hand as the'train stopped g
with the other he proffered
the bunch of waratahs. The
young woman flushed with
surprise, and there was an
instant of visible hesita-
tion. But finally she took
the gift with a smile of
thanks. As the train went
out he saw her depart
with the waratahs in
one arm and the exer-
cise-books under the
other. But not all of
them. As he had
handed the waratahs,
he had deftly ab-
stracted one of the
books from its fel-
lows.
At first he feared
the theft was vain.
The label of the
book, on which a
usually quite uninter-
ested world was in-
formed that it was a
“Commonwealth Exer-
cise Book, written by ,
of school,” had not
been filled-in by the owner.
But on the first page he
found in an untidy scrawl,
“ Mary Higgins, Wonora
Public School.”
The dismal little iron-roofed box known as
the Wonora Public School was startled, next morn-
ing, by the arrival, during first lesson, of a telegram
for the teacher. Telegrams were rare in Wonora,
and even the stolid Mary Higgins would have
been shaken on the solid basis of her boots if she
had been able to read that one :
Own small station, eighty miles from Perth. Must
return Saturday’s boat. Will you go bank with me as my
wif i. Wire P. 0., Melbourne. Allan Henson (Bunch of
Waratahs.)
The schoolmistress was a woman of some self-
restraint, as befits school-mistresses ; but she was
overcome by this astonishing missive. Her hands
fell to her side, she stared helplessly at the words,
and had a strong desire to burst out laughing.
With an effort, she folded the paper up, and put
it in her pocket.
“No answer . . . yet,” she said to the boy,
and turned to correct a sentence of Mary Higgins,
who was writing her exercise on paper, as her
book was unaccountably missing.
At last morning school ended. The school-
mistress locked the door and read the telegram
again. Her first sentiment was of mere wonder
as to how he had learnt her name (for she didn’t
know how Mary Higgins had unconsciously aided
the designs of Providence).
But what was she to say ?
She had passed through a love-affair or two
before twenty; but they had come to nothing;
and at twenty-four she was reconciling herself to
the spinsterhood that had been the lot of some of
the best women she knew. She was not un-
happy ; schoolmistresses have no time for that;
but she had never concealed from herself that a
life which meant the weary training of intermin-
able families of Higginses was not all she had
hoped for. And here was a proposal from a man
she had seen for some 10 minutes, and who had not
so much as exchanged a word with her. The man
might be an adventurer; she knew nothing of his
character, his family, his prospects, anything.
But did she know nothing of hi« character ? There
was that little incident of the Waratahs. In an
impulse like that a character writes itself down
more accurately than in a hundred glib love-
passages. Perhaps she knew more of Allan Hen-
son than most of her friends that had married had
known of their fiances. From his face he was
honest and manly, from his action he was kind
and tactful. From his telegram he clearly was in
love. What more should a maid ask of a hus-
band?
Then she passed to think of her own deficiencies.
These appeared to afford her more food for medi-
tation. It was only ten minutes before time for
afternoon school when she presented to the
astonished postmaster a return message :
“ Have no religion and no money.”— Esther Jane
Heather.
She had not long to wait for the reassuring reply :
“ Will find both. Will meet Friday’s express.”— Allan.
llow Miss Heather reconciled her conscience to
PREHISTORIC ’STRALYA.—SELECTING A CAPITAL SITE.
CIVILITY COSTS NOTHING.
POLITIC CANNIBAL: “Pardon me, sir, but mill
you kindly step into the soup? ”
putting the Department to the inconvenience of
sending another mistress at a day’s notice to take
charge of Wonora school, is not explained in the
books of the Department. But on Friday morning
a pretty little ex-schoolmistress, with the bluest
of blue eyes, and a bunch of waratahs in her hand,
was married hastily in Melbourne, and Mary
Higgins’ exercise book was returned by post.
P. F. RIONARDS.
Brown Clouds.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
VIO.
BROWN clouds l brown clouds 1 come at the
close of day—
Came with the curse of the fiery North
Blotting the stars away —
Why do you linger there, lurid and low,
There in the r umbling West ?
Gather your garments up quickly and go ;
Weary are we for rest.
Black clouds ! black clouds ! you are the workers
all,
Clothing the earth with a garment of green
Out of your sable pall!
Broken at times by a murderous might,
Crowned at times with Spring,
You are the toilers by day and by night—
Makers of everything !
White clouds ! white clouds ! you are the fancy-
free,
Flitting and floating like drifts of snow
Ever by land and sea ;
Laughing awhile at the makers of mirth,
Scorning the children of woe—
And we who are du3t of the dusty earth
Wonder whither you go.
Gold clouds ! gold clouds ! clouds of a rosier hue !
Laughing away in the heart of the West,
Purpling the evening dew !
You are the singers of musical songs ;
You are the children of Light;
Out in the West your serried throngs
Tread on the skirts of Night.
Brown clouds ! brown clouds I you are the outcasts
of earth!
Night calls ! night falls !
Sombre and slow and swarth.
Journeying, journeying, South by the sun —
South by the sun and West —
Someone is crying, “ Thy will be done!"
Someone is making a jest.
MILKY WHITE.


Aboriginalities.
To Contributors. —In the ease of ethnological and
natural-history items , etc., always give date and
place of experience ; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific
value.
“AS MAD AS A HATTER."
THE HATTER: “I must write and tell the papers
the way I yet my sivag carried in the Nerer-
Never. But I don't s’pose they'll believe me."
“ Deeby ” : Was camped in the bend of
the creek not far from the shed where shearing
was in full swing, and was getting through my
Sunday washing when a hale old swagman, blind
in one eye, came up to my tent. “ Can you write
a good clear hand?” he asked. “All right! I
want you to write out a statement of my infirmi-
ties. I’m going round the sheds collecting. I
lost my last paper back at one of my camps.”
Then he lit his pipe, settled himself comfortably
witli his back against a tree, and dictated :—“I
hereby certify that I lost my eye in a terrible
mining accident in which 19 men nearly lost their
lives. The other eye is also affected so that I
can’t work. Owing to an attack of rheumatic
fever I suffer with rheumatics in all the joints,
and also heart disease. I have lumbago. Through
a sun-stroke I am unable to stoop without
becoming giddy, and I have kidney complaint.
Though I may look healthy and strong I have
disease of—oh ! but that’ll do. Wind up by
telling em I’d be thankful for the smallest
donations towards a fund I’m collecting to buy
an organ and earn an honest living.”
* » * *
“ W.P.E.” : On a bicycle tour, recently, I
stopped at a country “hotel” for dinner. Pre-
sent —the publican, his wife and son. “ Jack,”
said father to son, “will you have a piece of ’am?”
“Yes, father, I will take a piece of ’am, please.”
“ You should not say ‘’am,’ but ‘’am ! ’” “I did
say ‘’am,’” Jack replied. The mother looked at
me and smiled. “You know,” she said, “they
both think they’re sayin’ ‘ ’am.’ ” Poor soul, she
had got it too !
The settler’s wife,
in her humble bark-home
in the green solitudes, is
not necessarily unpro-
tected. In the vicinity
of Bruthen (Vic.), some
time ago, a nomadic black
man who was carrying a
pack, and had displayed
his stock at some length
without making a sale,
grew angry and said
things that led to an im-
mediate declaration of
war. In the first round
of the ensuing battle all
the points were made by
the frantic Asiatic, but
suddenly a large dog ap-
peared and seized the
situation —he seized it by
the leg of the pedlar. The
woman maintained the
attack, and a majestic he-
goat, grazing near by, was
so wrought upon by the
excitement of the moment
that he also cut in and
butted the distracted
foreigner with great fury, breaking one of
his ribs, and injuring his face beyond repair.
Nor was this all. Misled by the evil example
set him, a large black cat flew at Abdul, and,
hanging by his scalp, began kicking the wan-
derer’s skin and hair. The settler turned-up
at this crisis, and experienced great difficulty
in rescuing the misguided hawker from his
family and belongings. The husband seems
to have had some sympathy with the mis-
taken stranger within his gates, and carted
him to the nearest hospital, where repairs
were neatly executed. Abdul talks of suits for
damages, but it seems that he ought to lie still and
thank his stars that the cow and the horse were
not at home. Welcome to this column, the Faith-
ful Billy Goat 1
* * • *
“ Edson ” : The old people at the Pike,
where the Gippslander put up, told him that their
boy Samuel was splittin’ posts for a fence near the
track about 19 miles out, and they’d be obliged if
he’d go out of his way to have a bit of a pitch with
him, because he saw nobody out there for weeks
together, and would be mad for news from home.
The Gippslander found Sam, a tall, lank native,
with the serviceable complexion of a smoked her-
ring. He was standing on a butt, slowly swinging
his axe, as the stranger rode up, and he left the
blade sticking in the log while he moistened his
hands and nodded shortly. “How ’re you
getting on ? ” said the Gippslander. “ I’m-orl ri,”
responded Sam, chopping like a machine.
“Pretty hot, ain’t it?” Sam did not imagine
this called for a reply. “I was with your
old people this morning.” “Huh!” “Yes.
The old man’s all right.” “Huh!”
“But the old woman’s bad with
rheumatics.” “ Huh ! ” “ Your
sister.’s gone to a place up
Bairnsdale.” No answer.
“And your brother Tom’s
broke his arm.” “Huh!”
Sam was still chopping, and
the Gippslander hung about
trying to awaken some in-
terest in him, and dragging
monosyllables out of him as
if they were back teeth.
Then he rode off, and had
gone a hundred yards when
Sam yelled, “Hi!” and
signalled him to return. He
did so, and Samuel said dully,
“Yerfergot ’bout the sheep
J n cattle dorg. Hez he gort
over ther mange ? ” The Gipps-
fander knew nothing about the
dog, and Sam lost interest again, and let him
ride off in silence. This was the Sam who had
not seen a fellow-creature for over two weeks, and
who would be “ mad for news.”
“ Ahau” writes from Maoriland :
Re moa par. (Abo. 5/4/’O2), all the mountainous country
“ west and north of Milford Sound ” has long since sunk
into the sea: east and northward there is much wild
country, but it is far from likely moas will ever be found
there ; that bird having been extinct for many centuries.
The Maoris have been here for five or six hundred years
at least, and they never saw a moa, nor had any reliable
tradition of a moa. Oolenso, perhaps the best-informed
pakeha concerning native law and custom, etc., who has
lived, and most of whose information, originally com-
mitted to manuscript, is now shamefully lost, set about
very early to collect information concerning this curious
bird, at first unsuccessfully. After a considerable time,
he tells us, information gradually began to come in from
one source and another ; the natives were getting accus-
tomed to hear of the moa, and concluded the white man
would like to know something about it. Well, if he knew
nothing, he wouldn’t know they knew nothing ; conse-
quently, he began to learn things. Those who hold that
the Maori, or his ancestors, knew the moa in M.L., point
to tales and names where the word “moa” is used:
Hinemoa, the heroine of Rotorua, and beloved by
Tutanekei, is an instance. “ Hinemoa” means “ a young
woman eating air like a moa”; a story of the last moa
being that it lived in a cave on a high mountain, whence
it stretched out its neck and lived on air. The practical
meaning of the word, however, is “ a young woman in
love, and refusing her food.” But how did this word
“moa” come here if the Maoris knew nothing of the
bird? Recent research reveals somewhat of the reason.
A dilatory Govt., at length desirous of preserving
native lore, &c., has discovered the fact that the story of
Hinemoa is not indigenous to M.L. at all. The incidents
took place in legendary Hawaiki or elsewhere, before
ever the islands of M.L. were inhabited by the present
native race ; and in accordance with world-wide custom,
the old scenes of a favorite story were transferred to the
new country. News of a live moa would soon produce an
armed band ready to do battle for its hide. It was
rumored some time back that a large animal of the iguana
kind—called by the natives, after much cross-questioning
torture, a “ kumi”—had left traces in apart of the North
Island bush. Immediately men set out with dogs and
guns, intent on capture, dead or alive. The kumi was
never captured, nor has it been heard of since. Beasts
have no chances these days. Subsequently, it was re-
ported that strange noises had been heard at
night by people in the southern Sounds, accom-
panied by splashing in the water, as of land-
slips ; but morning revealed no landslips. Truly,
M.L. has its Taniwhas, even as Australia has
its Bunyip; nor are the natives the only
credulous ones.
Speaking of these southern Sounds puts one
in mind of the tourist. A steamer was near the
head of one some time back, when those on
board noticed a man fleeing along the shore.
They landed, but only found a cave with certain
native utensils, ornaments, &c., and a track into
the bush ; they could not find the man ; so on
their departure they were content with ransack-
ing his house and taking away all his movable
goods as “ curios.” He may have been one of
the original South Island natives who were
driven out by the invading North Islanders
many years ago, and all traces of whom
have disappeared, though the traditions of the
conquerors say that the conquered fled into
the mountain fastnesses south-west of the
Island. In the course of time a native race may
be found in these mountains, bub no moas.
* • * «
Concerning frog-farming :
Skiter was a man of brilliant'de.is and mourn-
ful catastrophes. Not on’y was t ! e world to
him a land of troublous vicissitude, but he
once assured me that in his very dreams ho
often seemed for awhile to be poised on ihe
verge of a splendid success, to be hurled
almost immediately into the abyss of a dismal
failure. “Remember the night we.camped out
Umbirom way,” he confided once. “We
were gassin’ about the Australian frog and
old Luraholfcz ’ yarn about ifcs water-holding capacity
That night I had a dream. . . The frogs down Bugaboo
Creek aboufc tho flnegfc
you ever saw. Talk
about holding water—why some of them down our way
would carry a pint apiece without a wobble, and
ju S fc a touch in the side and they’d fill your pannikin. . .
Well, I dreamt I was frog-farming. I was raising the
brutes on a swampy selection by thousands, and was
going to pack ’em off by train to the coast town and sell
> em _ What for ? Why, for waterbags 1 And then there
W as the Paris demand for frog hindquarters to be sup-
plied, and I figured out I could easily dispose of 10,000
pgr annum. . . Well, old man, my prospects were most
brilliant. I had 30,000 fine, fat old croakers, with bingies
pice barrels and hind-legs like porkers, and I calculated
on clearing four or five hundred pounds the first year,
But Fate played it low down on me. One night there
came a storm, and when morning dawned not a frog was
to be seen. . . They had all trotted a mile down the
creek to old Dixon’s selection, and I couldn’t claim my
cattle—for 1 hadn’t branded a single one !I . . . What
sort of a world is this, where a man can’t even have
a decent dream without a disappointment?” Skiter
paused, eyed me curiously, and then spat deliberately
and reflectively in the face of a malign universe.— P.L.
* * « *
1 * Forty-Eight ” 1 Til© fast-disappearing
~ , J & , ■ ,
old stamp of bushman is shy, suspicious, taciturn,
, r , 7 , , , ’
and ’ when he does s P eak ’ mostly monosyllabic,
Was recently sitting outside a lonely bush pub.
when a grey-haired old swaggie and his “ dorg ”
turned up. With a grunt the old stager took seat
’longside of me, while the dog crouched down
against the wall. After a quarter-hour’s silence,
j ventured on-“ Not a bad-looking dog, mate.”
~ , . , . , , , , fITTT . .
The old chap looked at me and drawled : What)
ami .. ..
do ° • 2 hut dog, I said, pointing. My dog!’
“ Yes, your dog.” “ Oh, no ” (same drawl) “not
a bad ’un.” Silence for another 15 minutes before
I continued. “Is he broken-in?” “Who?”
“The dog.” “ What dog ? ” “ Your dog." “He
jg.” Another long silence ere I again ventured
with—“ Looks a bit knocked-up. ” “Who?”
“ The dog.” “ What dog?” “ Your dog!” I
almost yelled. “ Ye-es, looks like it.” Then I
gave him best and “fled the scene.”
THE END OF THE CHEQUE.
BILL THE RINGER (loquitur): “If they ain't real
'uns I reckon I’ve had about ’nough; but if
they ARE (hie) real 'uns I could do with a
drop more yd."
BARCOO JIM’S BATH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The water was scarce on the Dead Horse run one year
when the land was bare.
There was little enough to drink, and a wash was out of
the question there.
So the men grew dustier every hour and duskier day by
day ;
And some got sick of the life, and went to different parts
away.
And Barcoo Jim grew tired of the drought, and mused on
the life in town :
He longed for the men of the faces white—he tired of his
comrades brown.
“I’d be white an’ clean as the best of them,” said he, “ if
I had a bath ! ”
So he drew his cheque and rolled his swag and went on
the city path.
He passed thro’ the land where the tanks were dry ; he
passed thro’ the lonely scrub ;
He took the track o’er the drifting plains, nor stopped at
each wayside pub. ;
And at last to the city he came one day, and there at the
best hotel
They fancied he was an Indian or a dark Egyptian swell.
For Barcoo James was dark and brown with the dust of
the Dead Horse path,
And he didn’t want any public wash in a public Turkish
bath.
So he filled a tub in a secret way and he splashed for an
hour that night,
And the water kept thickening all the time that Jimmy
was turning white ;
Till at last, alarmed at the awful change, the bushman
essayed to shift
But he found himself bogged in dark brown mud, and in
vain was his strongest lift.
Some three hours later they found him there, and got him
out with a pull.
He informed them then, in a violent strain, that he of the
place was full.
This washing was only a parson’s game, he said, with a
mighty curse;
Just fit for a place where the men are soft, and each one
requires a nurse.
And so he took his swag again, and one night, at set of
sun,
A dark brown man appeared on the ridge that stands by
the Dead Horse run.
And over that land the legend hangs like a spectre
unwashed and grim
That the brownest man on the Dead Horse run is that
very same Barcoo Jim.
RIVERINA.
THE LAST STRAW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A saddened man
Is old Biljim ;
The curse of Joe
Oppresses him.
He walks along
With haunted eye,
Afraid to live,
Afraid to die.
Now, here’s the tale
As told to me
By Joe, in all
Sincerity.
The fire burnt low,
The time was ripe,
He slowly filled
And lit his pipe.
“ Yes, me and Bill
Was mates for years ;
We always shared
Each other’s beers ;
My clothes were his,
And his were mine, —
He saved my life
At Wondabine.
“The time I broke
My collar-bone
He sat and nursed
Me, all alone, —
Although the blacks
Was swarmin’ bad.
He ivas a mate
Was Bill, my lad !
“ Let’s see ; it was
The ninety drought,
An’ me an’ Bill
Was makin’ out
To Forty Mile
This side o’ Hell,
Where drink was scarce,
An’ food as well,
d
“ One sundown I
To make some tea
Was tryin’ hard,
An’ swearin’ free.
It is the worst
An’ driest toil
To fan a quart
When it won’t boil.
“ It boiled at last :
Old Bill was there,
Jes’ sittin’ still
Without a swear,
When up he rose
An’ made the tea ;
Then spilt the whole
D n lot on me !
“ Bill wasn’t scared.
He jes’ said : ‘ Joe,
I couldn’t help
It, mate, yer know ;
I hope yer aint
Too boiled to walk.’
To walk ! I was
Too cooked to talk.
“ Still, that was not
The reason why
I cursed old Bill
An’ wished he’d die ;
’Twas not because
He scalded me,
It was just this :
He spilt ther tea !
“ An’ out near Boarke
He spilt the tea !
Now—now, my lad
Don’t pity me,
Or I’ll break down.
He spilt the tea ! ”
I rose and left
Him, silently.
S. C. O. JESSOR.
PUNCH IN’.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
pOME up here, Billy! Lyin /
U Get back there Tim, you weed;
Tt ain’t no use you tryin ’
To sneak the bloomin’ lead.
Whoa, Lion! Billy! Billy 1
You pig-legged cow, come here!
I’ll knock you sideways silly!
You ain’t a skittish steer!
Here Sergeant! Come here, Major!
All right then, have some whip;
By right I should have flayed yer
Both there and back last trip.
What in all jumpin’ thunder
Is up with you there, Mick?
You tail-less, long-horned wonder,
Git out, and git out quick!
Now Smoker! Darn you, Mickey!
Smoker ! you three-wheeled hearse !
My throat’s that dry and sticky
I can’t swear worth a curse.
Back Mick, a-bit, now easy!
Steady! you clumsy raft,
You're gettin’ thin and wheezyi
You’ll die of over-graft.
Hold up your head there, Smoker!
You sulker, take the wood;
Your one horn’s straighds a poker;
You'd spill me if you could.
Here Tim! Gome up here, Larry !
Larry ! you emu’s foal!
You ’n Tim, bein’ big, must carry
The dead weight of the pole.
Now then I’ve yoked you shyin’,
My bull-necked team of eight;
Whoa back, Bill! Come here, Lyin!
Steady now, through the gate.
Git Smoker! Sergeant! Major!
Tim! Larry! hold her back!
Slow, Micky, or I’ll wager
You’d founder on the track.
M.L.
QUILP N.


SHE WOULD REMIND HIM.
FLO: “ Dear old Jack/ I suppose he has quite forgotten me.”
R HODA: “ Not if his wife ever heard of you!”
Next Door.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
dinner the night after the arrival of the youthful
couple, she looked at him critically in the intervals
of serving pumpkin and potatoes from the
vegetable-dish on to the eight successive
plates. She tried to remember him when
he was boyish; their’s, too, had been a youth-
ful match. But the effort failed. She saw
nothing but a rather stout, elderly man, with a
commonplace cast of countenance, very thin hair,
and inexpressive eyes.
Then she found he was raising his voice to her a
little, having asked her a question twice.
“Yes, the coal and wood bill has come,” she
answered, and reproved little Alf for having
arrived at the end of his plateful before she had
started hers.
“But you eat so slow, Ma,” objected little Alf.
“ Slowly ! ” she corrected, mechanically.
There was no mustard on the table, and the
father had asked for it. Gertie said it was Flo’s
turn to set the table, and since she had forgotten
it, she ought to go and mix it. Flo said Gertie
ought to go. “ Didn’t Ido your map of Asia for
you ? ” she said.
Mrs. Fleming slipped out and fetched it; she
had not noticed the altercation —only seen that
mustard was needed.
Mr. Fleming had not noticed that she had
gone ; when she returned with it he took it from
her absently, without thanks, and went on eating
his dinner and staring at his dim image in the
dull dish-cover.
Flo said something was a burning shame, and
her tone was so vigorous her father woke-up for a
moment and asked what it was.
“There are no children next door,” she said.
THE two houses adjoined, but the wall that
served both was the only thing they had in
common. One was dingy, weather-scarred ;
the other spick and span in a new, clean covering
of paint. The discrepancy worried the eyes
of the passers—they quite ached to mud-besmirch
the spotless one, or with a white-dipped brush
make the dirty one like its twin.
The dingy one had been called—prematurely—
“ The Pines’; only one of the two planted had
survived the suns of the first summer.
Next door, with the new coat of paint, a new
name had appeared, and the old postman was try-
ing hard to drive into his own head the fact that
“The Nest” was merely “The Laurels” re-
christened. At “The Pines” the remembrance
of the words of the marriage-service was dulled
with the noise and buzz of sixteen years. Next
door the echo of them still rang, for it was only
sixteen days.
Mrs. Fleming had watched through the laths of
her fly-spotted blind the arrival of the bride and
bridegroom after their fortnight’s honeymoon.
The bride was a slender young thing with brown
soft eyes and a nervous mouth ; she looked shy,
and blushed as she stepped out of the cab, because
two little street-boys were watching with interest.
The bridegroom might have been twenty-five,
he looked nineteen. Mrs. Fleming’s mouth
smiled at the pride and importance of his face, as
laden with a parasol, a silk-lined cape, and a
couple of dress-baskets, he strode across the pave-
ment after the slim figure.
Then something happened. The bride, eager to
get away from the eyes of the boys, pushed at the
gate herself and trapped for a second the least
little bit of one finger. It was only a tiny cry of
pain she gave, but the bridegroom dropped his
load and sprang to her.
“It is nothing ! ” she said. “ Truly, it is not.”
“ Your finger ! ” he said ; “ you hurt it—show
me. I know you have hurt it.”
She put it behind her. “ What a baby lam !
It is nothing at all—only the teeniest little trap
—it was that stupid catch.”
He caught at her hand. “Show me,’' he en-
treated. “Was it this finger? Oh, quick ! take
your glove off, it will swell. I know you are
trying to hide it from me, you brave little thing ! ”
She smiled up, lovingly, into his anxious face,
and pulled the glove off. From sheer routine he
was going to kiss the place to make it well, when
he rememberer 1 they were on the pavement of a
suburban road He put his hand on her arm and
hurried her up the path and out of sight into
the house. The cabman winked at the street-boys
as he followed with the trunk and portmanteau ;
he had to make a second journey for the dropped
cape, the parasol, and the dress-basket.
“When I had typhoid, and was given up,”
sighed Mrs. Fleming, “Thomas did not look half
so anxious.” From that day she fell into the way
of constantly peeping at the young couple.
She was a woman rather below 40, as years
went, but looking more. Her complexion was
dull, her lips held no color, all brightness had gone
from her eyes. Generally, she wore gray or drab,
and the dressmaker never dreamed of trying to fit
her. She had six children, of ages ranging from 9
to 15; her husband was 45. When he came in to
“The new people are nothing but a
Bpooney young couple.”
He woke-up a little more. “I won’t
have you annoying them,” he said.
“Alf, if they keep fowls, you’ll just
let them alone. Jack, if there’s a oat,
I forbid you to molest it; they seem
very nice young people.”
Mrs. Fleming stared at him.
“You’ve never seen them,” she said ;
“why, they have only been in about
an hour.”
“Oh,” he said, carelessly, “I
happened to be looking at the weather
from the bedroom window when they
came. ”
At the end of the week the young
husband returned to his work in the
city, going away of a morning by the
same train as Mr. Fleming and coming
back by the same at night.
He had long young legs, and easily
outstretched his elderly neighbor in
the twenty-minutes’ walk home from
the station. And always at the gate
of “ The Nest ” stood the bride waiting
to welcome him.
It was only the knowledge that
Fleming was some hundred or so
yards behind that kept him from
kissing her on the spot, for the road
was a quiet and retired one. He
made up by almost running down with
her and into the house.
“ Oh, you blessed little girl ! ”
Fleming heard him say one dusk
afternoon, when, for once, he was
less than his hundred yards behind—
“I’ve not known how to wait for the end of the
day.”
And the bride had clung to his arm and re-
turned, the sound of tears in her voice—" I didn’t
think a day could be so long.”
There was jealousy in Fleming’s heart as he
turned in at his own gate, let himself in with his
latchkey, and remembered it was fourteen or
fifteen years since his wife had given up the habit
of meeting him with a kiss.
“Not that I blame her,” he muttered, glancing
at his image in the slit of glass the hall-stand
held—“ there’s not much romance left about me.”
He hung up his hat sadly.
Mrs. Fleming had just dropped the laths of the
drawing-room blind. “How glad he. looked to
see her ! ” she said with a deep, deep sigh.
From the back came the sound of Ada and little
Alf quarrelling vigorously.
“Did !” shouted the boy.
“ Didn’t! ” screamed the girl.
“Did, didn’t, didn’t, did”—the high-pitched
words filled the house, treading fast on each other s
heels.
Mrs. Fleming went out into the hall and found
her husband still there. For one half-second they
looked at each other piteously. Then the use of
years prevailed.
“Where are the evening papers?” he said;
“and can’t you make those children be quiet? I
never saw such a house as this for noise.”
“On the piano,” she answered to his first ques-
tion. And “Neither did I,” sighingly, to his
second.
She went into the uproarious dining-room.
“ She threw my ’quarium away,” sobbed Alf.
*• Didn’t! ” cried Ada.
“Did!”
“Didn’t!”
“Oh ! ” said their mother, and looked at them
almost without love in her eyes, for this was their
fifth quarrel in one afternoon, and there was an odd
little misery tugging at her heart. “ How can
you be so naughty! Ada, why did you throw
away his aquarium ? ”
“It smelt,” said Ada, excitedly, “ and he poked
my doll’s eye in—look at her.”
“ You said you never threw it away,” cried Alf.
But Ada had no objection to telling the truth
when her mother was there to protect her from
an onslaught.
She poked her tongue out at him.
“ I’ll throw them away always,” she said.
“Oh, will you ! ”
“Won’t 11”
“Will you!”
“Won’t I!”
“ Yah, story !—ugh—ugh, cowardy, yah, girl!"
Mrs. Fleming burst into tears. She was not at
all a woman given to them, but the scene was so
squalid, and the craving for the beautiful in life
was stirring within her again after all these years
of repression.
The children were a trifle aghast.
“’Twas your fault,” said Ada.
“’Twas yours !” cried Alf., indignantly.
“ 'Twas ! ”
“ ’Twasn’t! ”
Mr. Fleming came hastily in himself, the
rustling papers in his hand.
“Now, what’s the meaning of this?” was his
irascible remark.
Then he saw his wife was weeping. She was
ashamed of herself, and tried to hide her face.
And the next minute she actually found herself hid-
ing it on her husband’s shoulder, just as the bride
next door might have done.
Quite a thrill of pleasure at her spontaneous
action went through him. He put her aside
gently and picked up a handy strap. He was
not a man given to such things, but, just now, the
subjugation of little Alf was a labor of love to
him. Then he sent Ada to bed.
“It can’t be both of their faults, can it?” was
the only resistance Mrs. Fleming made, and that
was from her mechanical sense of justice rather
than sorrow for the summary punishment that
had overtaken both.
“I don’t care a dump if it’s neither’s,” Mr.
Fleming said, excitedly, “they made you cry.”
He patted her shoulder, and she cried a little
more, so he kissed her, and found strange pleasure
in the act, since it was not perfunctory. She
clung to him and kissed back again.
When she had cooled-down, both felt a little
sheepish and ashamed ; at dinner-time they spoke
to each other almost as uncivilly as usual. Gert
came in late, when pudding was nearly over. She
was giggling almost hysterically.
“Oh, tell’s,” cried Flo, scenting fun—“ what?
go on ; oh, do be quick.”
Gert struggled with her consuming laughter.
“I thought I’d die,” she said, breathlessly.
It was two or three minutes before the other
young ones coaxed it from her, such was the
laughter-fit that had possession of her.
She had been sitting in the cubby-house at the
bottom of the yard, and it, as they all knew,
backed-up, with only a fence between, to the
summer-house that had been made for the bride.
“ I couldn’t help overhearing,” Gert said, justi-
fying herself; “I was reading—why should I
move when I was comfortable ? I did give two
little coughs, too, but they took no notice.”
“ Well, go on,” Flo said ; “what did they say?”
Gert was a clever young mimic ; her voice had
wonderful ways of altering at will. She leaned
back in her chair and reproduced the conversation
precisely.
“ ‘ Is my darling quite comfortable there ? ’
“ ‘ Oh, quite, dearest; what a dear little place it
is—l love vines drooping down like that; don’t
you ? Kind little things; they grew that way just
to make a cosy, sheltered plaoe for us.’
“ ‘ Look at the birds, little bride; see them put-
ting their knowing little heads on one side. They
heard I had the loveliest little girl in the world
for a wife, and they’ve come to see.’
“‘Silly boy !—they’re looking at you. They
don’t often get a chance to see the best and hand-
somest man in the world in this uninterrupted
manner. And I’m not pretty a bit, Jim ; even
Ellen, who loves me best of all my riends,
couldn’t deny that my nose turns up.’
THE TROUBLES TO COME.
CONSTABLE MURPHY: “Oi sap, Madam, ye’ve
dropped somethin’.”
NEW WOMAN (patronisingly): “Oh, thank you.
What is it!”
C.M.: “One of your throwser-buttons, Oi think.”
“‘lt’s the dearest, sweetest little nose in the
world.’
“ ‘ Ah, see, even you say ‘ little,’ Jim —that’s its
fault, I know; it’s such an insignificant-looking
thing. And then my eyebrows are too pale, and
they don’t arch a bit.’
“ ‘ Anything else, madam my wife ? ’
“ ‘ Lots of things. My eyes ought to be blue, to
go with my light hair. Or my hair ought to be
brown. And oh, it doesn’t curl a bit.’
“ ‘ If you have quite finished, there is going to be
a young person shaken to death. I don’t allow
libels like that on my wife.’
“ Kisses, given and received.”
At this point in Gert’s dialogue Tom made an
interruption.
“No crams, Gert—you couldn’t hear that.”
“ Oh, couldn’t I? ” said Gert. “ That’s all you
LATTERDAY AUSTRALIANS.
FATTA JUNG (drover) : “ Good dap, please , next squattor-r-r-station, mister, how far-r-r !”
TOMMI HOP LEE (stockman): “ Goo' day. Oh! you catch-a him abou' semenlee mi’.”


THE DISPUTE.
THE FRIEND OF G.V. BROOKE : “ You would teach me to play Hamlet!
Me! Why, damme, sir, I made the play what it is !”
know. At all events every few minutes they
stopped talking, and what else could they be
doing ? ”
“Of course,” said Flo ; “go on, Gert.”
Gert went on. “Lots more talk like that about
each other’s virtue and beauty. Then the bride
remarked she had never seen the sky look so blue.
And the bridegroom said it was only doing its
duty as it should when they were so happy. And
the bride said that must be the reason why the
sun was so glorious to-day. And the bridegroom
said, as cool as possible, ‘Of course —why that’s
the only excuse for existence the world has —just
so that we can be together in it.’
“And then all the laughing went out of the
bride’s voice, and tho seat creaked, so that I knew
she was trying to get closer to him only she
couldn’t. And she 3aid ‘Oh Jim,’ in a voice that
sounded as if she was frightened to death. And
he said ‘ what ? ’ and kept begging and begging
her to tell him what the matter was, and she
wouldn’t, and he begged and begged again like
anything, and called her by at least forty-five
different names, and at last went down on his
knees to her in his nice, brand-new suit.”
“Look here,” Tom said again, “just you let
embroidery alone, Gert ; you couldn’t see that
either.”
“There are plenty of cracks,” Gert said.
“I know,” said Tom, “but you can’t see
through them. They were making such a row
the other day laughing that I tried. But it was
no good, and I had to look over the fence. And
he was carrying her round and round the grass as
if she was a baby, and she was struggling to get
down. When they saw my head he dropped her
as if she’d been a hot potato, and they pretended
to be weeding the garden.”
“Oh,” said Flo, impatiently, “you told us
that before, Tom ; do let Gert get on.”
“ Well, at all events,” Gert said, “it is highly
probable that he did. For one thing, it’s just
what that sort of man would do; and, for another,
she told him what he was asking, and she kept
refusing before. She said, ‘ supposing he was to
die, they were so happy she couldn’t help thinking
something couldn’t help happening.’ And all the
laughing went out of his voice, and he said
the same thought was a torture to him—that
half the day he kept thinking of the things that
might happen to her.
“ ‘lf you died,’ said the bride, and her voice
sounded quite chokey, ‘ I wouldn’t go on living
another minute .”
“ ‘lf I died,’ said the bridegroom, “I wouldn’t
stay in heaven—allowing that I was invited there
—a minute ; I’d be with you all the time.’
“ ‘But,’ said the bride, piteously, ‘think how
•cold and lonely and miserable I’d be —you couldn’t
put your arms round me, could you ? ’
“ ‘ I’d put my wings,’ the bridegroom said.
“When I heard that remark,” Miss Gert said,
“I exploded, I couldn’t keep it in any longer.
They must have heard me, for they got up and
scuttled away into the house as if mad dogs were
after them.”
The young ones all laughed heartily, but the
heads of the family saw no humor in the thing at
all.
“You’re a young Goth,” Mr. Fleming said
angrily, and quite glared at the graceless Ger-
trude.
“How could you?” said Mrs. Fleming, a
Strange break in her voice. It seemed the most
beautiful thing in the world to her, this tender
young love next door. Gert’s mimicry seemed
sacrilege to her.
“Just listen to her,” Flo said pertly. “ Why,
iila’s getting quite sentimental in her old age.”
That speech checked the new, delicate growth
in her mother’s poor heart for nearly a month,
and made her father ashamed to be anything but
abrupt and dogmatic in his manner as usual.
But the.bne still peeped through the laths of tho
drawing-room Venetian several times in a day, and
the other looked at the weather from the bedroom
window, and studied the young husband in the
train.
And at last a wonderful thing happened. Mr.
Fleming came home with a pot holding a beauti-
ful feathery fern.
He had been “ up town ” during the lunch hour
and had seen the bridegroom bestowing the very
greatest care on the selection of a plant, and a
resolve had suddenly entered into his heart that
lie would take one home to his wife.
“ How pretty ! ” Flo had said when he came in
with it —“ Is it
for Gert or me?
It isn’t for Ada,
is it, you gave
the chocolates to
her?”
Her father
seemed suddenly
ervous.
Run away,”
he said ; “ run
away—it isn’t for
you.”
“Gert! ” shout-
ed Flo, up the
staircase, “quick,
quick—come and
see what father’s
brought you.”
Gert came fly-
ing down two
steps at a time—
“ Oh,” she cried,
“ how lovely! You
are a dear old
man.”
Mr. Fleming
held to it very
tightly indeed.
“Go away,” he
said ; “go away
this minute —it
isn’t for you.”
Gert looked aggrieved. “That greedy little
Ada gets everything,” she said.
Mrs. Fleming came from the kitchen, a stack of
girls’ and boys’ blouses, freshly ironed, in her
hand.
“Is it fair, ma?” Gert said. “ Here’s pa gives
Ada everything.”
Mr. Fleming stood there in the middle of the
hall, his pot of delicate, pale-green fern held to
him. He looked awkward, embarrassed; one
would have thought he was being detected in a
crime.
He took a step towards his wife. “You can
have it, if you like,” he said, ungraciously; “I
don’t want it. ”
It was not the way he had pictured himself
presenting it; somehow the crowding, staring
girls had spoiled his pleasure for him.
His wife looked at him shyly. “ For me ? ” she
said.
“ Um ” he said.
She put her weary ironing down in a careless
heap on the hall chair while she took it. A
strange little color ran up into her dull cheeks.
“ I never saw anything so pretty,” she said, in a
low tone.
Merciless young Flo was laughing. “ Just look
at ma,” she said ; “she’s blushing like the bride
next door does.”
Her father turned away savagely. That new
pink had pleased him strangely.
“ Where are the evening papers ? ” he asked.
The next day dinner was a little late. Gert
carried in the meat. Flo followed with the vege-
tables and plates—schooling was costing so much
they could keep no servant. The boys came in
hungry, rough, quarrelsome, and took their seats.
“ Where’s ma?” said little Alf.
“ Where is your mother ? ” Mr. Fleming asked.
They heard her running down stairs and along
the hall as if in hurrying fear at being so late;
just one little minute she halted outside the door.
Then she came in and hastened to sit down before
the vegetables.
Mr. Fleming looked across to her, he was just
going to grumble at her lateness. Then there
crept a warmth round his middle-aged heart, and
a look of tenderness came into his eyes.
His wife had sewn quite a quantity of lace in
the neck of her dress; it drooped round her
thin neck almost gracefully. Somewhere in it
nestled a little bow of pink ribbon; in her dull
hair, pinned at the side, wa3 another scrap of
pink. She had loosened the hair she generally
wore dragged so tightly away from her forehead,
and fluffed it a little—it lent a wonderful new
softness to her face.
But to her girls and boys she seemed as ridicul-
ous and unseemly as if she had suddenly changed
her drab old dress for pink gauze and spangles.
“Hold me up!” said Tom, and affected to be
fainting.
“Just look at ma!” cried Gert—“isn’t she
getting a skittish young person ? She’ll be want-
ing to learn dancing soon.”
“No,” said Flo, “mummie thinks she ought to
be let in the tableaux on Friday—don’t you, mum ?
What would you like to be? We want someon 0
for Spring yet, don’t we, Gert ? ” Her healthy,
careless young laugh rang out.
Mrs. Fleming served out cabbage and baked
and boiled potatoes all through the fire, but her
head was bent a little and her hand trembled.
These girls and boys of hers that she had loved
and slaved for all these years—their laughing
cruelty was like little needles with fire to her
heart.
“ I know,” said little Alf., “ Ma’s goin* to the
circus.”
“That’s it,” said Jack; “the horseback lady’s
been taken ill, and ma’s going to earn something
to buy me a new football.”
Quite a shrill cry came from Ada. “ Why,
that’s my doll’s new sash,” she said, excitedly,
pointing to the poor little pink bows, ‘ ‘ and you’ve
gone and cut it in two —oh, ma !—and never asked
me; give it me back.”
Two red spots burned on their mother’3 cheeks;
she sent a swift, almost supplicating glance to her
husband. But he was eating his dinner as if deaf;
years ago he had given up interfering when the
children were rude to their mother, and to-night lie
had a notion that perhaps he had better keep to his
rule, albeit he ached to administer
six separate floggings.
“ Oh-h-h I ” she said. Her hands
fluttered upwards and tore off the
little bows; she struggled with the
lace, but it resisted her. “ Oh, I
wish I was dead,” she said, with
passionate childishness. Then she
burst into tears, and rushed away
out of the room.
Mr. Fleming sprang up, too.
Stout, middle-aged, inactive as he
was, he ran after her as rapidly
as Tom might have done.
“You’ll be sorry for this,” was
all he said, and the children felt
distinctly frightened.
* * *
When they learned, a week
later, all the new things that were
happening, and going to happen to
them, without a doubt they were
sorry for it.
The elder ones could not help
but think their father was pos-
sessed ; their mother they could not
blame, for she had known as
little of these wild doings as them-
selves.
New little trunks came home
for all of them ; that was the first
intimation they had that they were
going to boarding-school.
“But surely you can’t afford,
pa ! ” they said, with eyes round
with wonder and horror.
He rubbed his hands and smiled pleasantly;
these few days seemed quite to have altered his
character.
“It comes out of your pockets, my dears,” he
said. “ You see, it’s this way : Your mother and
I have been making a great mistake —we’ve been
saving and scraping to put money by to give each
of you a good start in life.”
Tom’s face said he was unable to find the great
mistake in this; it seemed a very laudable and
right thing for parents to do. “ Well ? ” he said,
sulkily.
“ And while we scraped and saved, my lad, we
quite forgot ourselves —trod on ourselves, in fact—
even invited the six of you to tread on us. We’ve
only just opened our eyes to the foolishness of the
thing.”
DROUGHT-TIME IRONY IN THE BACKBLUCKS.
FLASH JOE (to swaggie): “ Look out, mate, with that ’ ere match or you'll be starting a bush-fire ! ”
“ Well ? ” said Gert. Her world seemed falling
to pieces around her at this new way her parents
were asserting themselves.
“ Well,” continued her father; “ we have decided
that, as you are all young and hearty, you will ba
able to shift for yourselves if we give you a good
education. And we’re taking the money out ol
the bank to give ourselves a new start in life.”
And that was exactly what that middle aged
couple did.
The bride next'door had looked pale for a week
or two, and the bridegroom had rushed off and
ordered delivery-vans to come for the furniture.
He said he was sure the neighborhood did not
agree with her, and carried her off further from
sea-air.
When the six children came back for their first
holidays, they found the dingy “ Pines ” empty,
and their parents living in “The Nest.” There
was new furniture everywhere, pretty carpets,
bright curtains; people came to see them, they
went to see people.
Their mother wore dresses that took their breath
away, such warm, rich coloring, such ways of
making. Some of their new acquaintances con-
sidered her over-dre3sed at times, but that was
Mr. Fleming’s fault; he could not see a pretty
thing without rushing into a shop and buying it.
For himself ho took to a straw hat in summer, and
no longer considered the chief merits of new suits
to be that they were dark and would wear well.
“Well, I’m sugared!” said Tom as he gazed
round the new abode and saw that his father was
indulging his old hobby for birds and flowers.
“Did you ever!” said Gert and Flo. They
notioed the cosy corner that had been fitted up for
THAT TIRED FEELING , OR AN EASY WAY
TO MAKE ROOM.
THIN GENTLEMAN AT THE BACK: “ Would both of you
gentlemen mind breathing in hard for a little so
that I may get past .”
their mother, the screen against the draught, the
little table with the newest books, the basket
holding nothing but fancy-work, the velvet-
covered hassock.
“ Out of our pockets ! ” Tom said ruefully.
But they went back to school quite thought-
fully. They had begun to respect their parents.
ETHEL TURNER.
Two Stars.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Two stars that burn when the rest do fade —two
beacons blazing ever ;
When the skies grow dark and the heart’s afraid
their twin fires darken never!
Across the seas do they glint and gleam—sing hey
for the sweet, safe steering,
When the Light of Love on the starboard beam
shines red with lips’ warm cheering;
When the rebels drive to port a-glee and the
blood-hued flags are wavin’,
Sing ho for the Light of Liberty that leads them
to their haven !
All stars save two burn dim and wane, all Lights
save two lead tomb-ward ;
No soul that heads thro’ storm and rain for them
goes ever doom-ward!
For the Light of Love gleams all night long, no
burning low, no quenching ;
Its fires stream out, clear, blazing, strong, when
the cheeks and hearts are blenching.
O, no craft that keeps to the flame-marked way
and steers for Libertados
Need fear, tho’ the mists be dark and gray ahead
like grim rock-shadows.
And by basalt rock and ironstone ramp that ill-
steered soul-ships dash on,
Is the star of Love a Lighthouse Lamp, bright-lit
with Flame of Passion !
By the gloomy depths of bondage dark where
sunk rocks wait the free man,
There’s a Light that guides to doom no bark, and
drowns no stout-souled seaman !
Tthere are two stars, red when the rest sink low,
that burn thro’ mist and hazing !
And sage are the ships that heed the glow of those
twin beacons blazing !
GRANT HERVET.
. Fritz was planting peas. He had the bag
in his hand, and was dropping in the peas as he
walked along, but a rooster followed close behind,
and swallowed the peas as they were dropped.
When Fritz reached the end of the row, he
turned, and, seeing what had happened, promptly
seized the offender, cut off his head, took the peas
out of the crop and stolidly planted them over
again.


LADY’S HACK!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
TN the lignum watercourses
* There is trouble on the road,
With a dozen gallant horses
Tugging gamely at a load ;
Scalded shoulders, muscles aching
From the burden of the plains,
Gams heads tossing, brave hearts breaking,
Breaking in the waggon chains I
But you,
The lady's hack,
■ With my love upon your back,
You arc prancing through the wattles where
they line the bridle track !
They have mustered-up the cattle,
They are drafting on the camp,
You can hear the stockwhips rattle,
And the ringing beauties tramp ;
Tnere are weaners giving trouble
Where the rolling dust-clouds stir.
Now they're flogging w 'th the double!
Now they’re stabbing with the spur !
You've the times,
Lady’s hack,
With my love upon your back,
Playing gaily with the snaffle as you dance
along the track I
You fly no foam to dapple,
You raise no sweat to stain; —
A pat, a hiss, an apple —
A mile, and back again !
What's seven-stone-ten to carry ?
—I would carry it with joy !
But if she and I should marry,
I will find you work, old boy l
You've the times,
Lady’s hack !
With my love upon your back,
With your merry laughing burden as you
canter down the track !
Though she likes no other fellows
(Fm the only one to call),
Yet Fm just a wee bit jealous,
For she loves you best of all ;
So, when cattle are to gather,
I shall take you for a ride,
For a little bit of lather
Would not hurt your glossy hide !
Lady's hack !
Lady's hack 1
Twelve-stone-five upon your back
Ind a jolly rousing gallop through the
wattles on the track !
But perhaps I should not grumble:
You’re a good old sort, say I,
For you never trip or stumble,
And you never reef or shy;
You have borne her late and early
In the dawn mists and the dew ;
And I'm not afraid for girlie,
For I know she’s safe with you,
Lady's hack !
Lady’s hack !
With my love upon your back —
Till we marry, safely carry her along the
bridle-track!
WILL OGILVIE.
Our New Selection.
WHEN DAD GOT lUJOKKD-OFF.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
DAD and Cranky Jack, on their way to the
railway-yards with fat pigs, camped for
dinner in the Gap, near Talty’s.
Dad rode across to the humpy, got off, and asked
for a billy of hot water to make tea with. Mrs.
Talty filled the billy, and would have handed it
up when he was mounted, but Dad did not allow
that—he always refused assistance in such small
things. So he waved her off, and, seizing the
billy, held it, with the reins, in his left hand.
Scrambling up clumsily, he spilt the water over
the mare’s neck, scalded her badly, and made her
buck right on to Mrs. Talty. Then, he fell off,
and made a fool of himself.
That was how Dad happened to be in bed when
a lot of people came to the house, one day.
* * * •
Dad was very bad —bruised all over, and the
pain made him groan all day long, and, whenever
Mother smeared oil on him, he yelled till
he could be heard over at Regan’s. And, bad
temper ! if any of us poked our heads into his
room and asked, meekly, how he was, he bellowed
at us to “ clear out! ” We always obeyed. And
when we didn't go
in to ask how he
was, he roared out
to know where the
devil we all were,
and accused us of
having no more
sympathy in our
compositions than a
lot of blackfellows.
We were only, he
said, hanging round,
waiting for him to
die.
Dad was a diffi-
cult old man to
please when he
wasn’t well. Joe
reckoned, if he put
the same energy
into prayer that he
put into profanity,
he would never be
sick.
• * •
Nearly every
female in the dis-
trict called to in-
quire how Dad was.
A t least they made
t at their excuse;
they didn’t care how
Dad was. It mat-
tered little to them
whether he lived or
died. They came
only to yarn and
drink tea, and tell
lies about them-
selves, and libel any
of their friends who
were not present.
“So sorry,” they
said, and made
mouths and ugly
faces about it.
Women always
make themselves
ugly when they wish
to appear sympa-
thetic. It’s a way
they have of carry-
ing conviction.
None ventured
into the room,
though, to see Dad.
They questioned
Mother, then sat
down and sighed,
and took their hand-
kerchiefs out. Fifty
times and more Mother had to relate how
the accident happened, and every time she came
to the “bucking-off” part, Dad’s voice would
break through the wooden wall—“ Dammit, I tell
y’ agen I wasn't bucked-off—wasn’t on th’
damn mare ” —and Mother would get confused,
and turn all colors. And some of the ladies
would smile, and some wouldn’t. Then rounds of
heavy groans would come from Dad, and Mother
would sit on the verge of nervous collapse lest he
should break out in a passion and yell violence at
the company.
Mother was unhappy. She wished the visitors
had stayed away. But they didn’t notice her dis-
comfiture. They sipped tea, and ate up all the
scones and cake Sarah carried in, then became
boisterously convivial—screamed and took posses-
sion of the house. They forgot there was a
suffering invalid on the premises, and no one
heard Dad groan any more—no one heard him
growl, savagely, “Blarst them— blarst, why th’
devil don’t they shut up and go home ? ” —no one
but Mother. And she ran in to pacify him.
The bedlam eased off a little, and a political
discussion commenced on the general election that
was approaching.
Mrs. Brown asked Mother whom Dad intended
voting for, and, without waiting to hear an
answer, Mrs. M‘Fluster, a crane-necked, anta-
gonistic old aunt of Mary Gray’s said her man
(meaning M‘Fluster) didn’t believe in Griffith
at all. In Mrs. M‘Fluster’s own sinewy opinion,
he was of no account. She was proceeding to
make remarks about him when Dad’s voice fairly
shook the partition.
Dad believed in Griffith as he did in milk.
He was Dad’s political god.
Mrs. M‘Fluster pricked her ears. “ What’s he
saying ? ” she asked of Mrs. Higgins.
“ Wher’ th’ devil’s ther’ a better man
for th’ country?” Dad shouted, his voice
quivering with rage.
“Thun wAo?” Mrs. M‘Fluster shouted
back.
“ Than Griffith ” (very loud).
“ M‘llwraith is,” squealed Mrs.
M'Fluster; “MTlwraith is—MTlwraith.”
“Never in his life! Rubbish!" Dad
roared, raising himself on his elbow in the
bed and glaring at the wall. “ Psliaio !
y’ don’t know th’ ruffian.”
Fire flashed from Mrs. M‘Fluster’s eyes
as she stood up and faced the wall on the
other side.
“ He is —doesn’t everyone know it ? ”
“ A lie, woman; no one knows it! ”
Mrs. Higgins and some more tugged at
Mrs. M‘Fluster’s skirts, to induce her, in
the interests of peace, to desist.
“ Name me one act,” Dad yelled ; “ one
single act of M ‘ll w rai th ’a th at was ever any
good to the country ; name one —name it ? ”
Mrs. M‘Fluster, struggling to disengage
herself from the clutches of her scared
niece and Mrs. Higgins, lost the thread of
the argument.
Encouraged by the lady’s silence, Dad got
fairly on his mettle. Forgetting his bruised
back, he bounded clean out of bed and
grabbed his trousers.
“Name one!” he continued, yelling
while he fumbled the garment excitedly.
“Name one single”—(he got one leg in,
and, giving the pants a tug, sprang to the
door, which he opened just wide enough to
disclose his face and the leg that was clothed ;
the rest of him was concealed) —“one single
act (fixing Mrs. M'Fluster with a wild eye
to keep her to the point) of your M‘llwraith’s that
was ever any good to the country— name it ? ”
“ The school,” Mrs. M‘Fluster screeched, flying
at Dad like a wild cat. “The school, the dam,
th’ —th’ roads, an’ ”
“Dammit, woman, they're Griffith’s!" And
in his excitement Dad threw open the door
and stepped right out, waving his right hand (the
left held up his trousers), and swinging an empty
trouser-leg and displaying a huge undressed limb,
all hair and joints,
Girls squealed and jumped up and ran out in
disorder.
“ Father! father!" Mother pleaded, placing
her hands lightly on Dad to restrain him.
“ Fanny ! ” Mrs. Bruce called to her daughter.
“ Fanny ! come home.”
“ I declare t’ God ! ” Miss Mahony, a single old
body, grave and religious, cried as she hurried
away, “th’ man have no trousers on—shame for
him ! ”
And when she reached the door she turned and
cast another glance of reprobation at Dad ; then
passing the window, outside, looked in once more
to satisfy herself that she wasn’t doing him an in-
justice after all.
But Mrs. McFluster saw nothing wrong. She
stood up to Dad and stamped her foot and squealed
ou t_“ It’s a lie! it’s a lie! ’’—until Dave came in
with a run, seized Dad in his arms and carried
him back to bed.
* * * •
Dad ceased yelling and calmed down, and was
taking kindly to a basin of gruel Mother brought
him, when someone knocked at the door again.
Mother answered the call.
It was Mr. McTait, the minister. He smiled
and squeezed Mother’s hand, then his face
changed its expression. He became solemn as a
death sentence. He had heard Dad was in a high
fever, and spoke in a low anxious tone about
He wouldn’t see Dad ; he thought it well he
shouldn’t be disturbed and suggested a short
prayer for his recovery.
Sarah came, and Mother sent her
to call the boys.
“Yous fellows is wanted
at th’ house,” Dave said to
Joe and Bill, neither of
whom knew the minister was
there. Then Dave, who
did know, went away to
close the slip-rails in the
seventeen acres. He was
till night closing those slip-
rails.
The minister was pro-
ceeding in soft, solemn
tones to pray when Dad’s
voice broke in upon the
service.
“ Ellen ! ” he called.
Joe grinned; Mother
fidgeted.
■ “i Ellen!" —he called,
louder.
“Grant them
strength to bear their
trial ” —came feelingly
from the good minister.
“Where th’ devil ’a’
they gone t’— El-len!' y
came from Dad.
‘ ‘ Restore our dear
brother to health,
an ”
There was an ir-
reverent interrup-
tion.
* Dammit! ” Dad
yelled, punching the
partition with his fist till
it seemed the house would
fall— “ damn it I”
Mother went in to him.
“ Where th’ devil ’a’ y’ toon ? ”
Dad roared.
Mother motioned him to be silent, aud whis-
pered that the minister was in the dining-room.
Dad howled harder.
AT A GOVERNMENT-HOUSE RECEPTION.
A IDE: “ And have you your card of entree,
madam?”
MADAM : “ No, Mr. Aidy Camp—but it won't matter,
as I had dinner before I left.”
“ Has he brought Darkey back ? ” Darkey was
a horse Dad had lent the parson some weeks
before.
Mother thought it wise to answer in the affirma-
tive, and told a lie.
“ Has he been feeding him ? ”
Mother lied again.
“ Has he fetched the ten shillings he borrowed?”
“He’s wandering,” the minister remarked to
Sarah ; “they all do in fever.” Then he thought
he would be going, and went away.
Q.
STEELE RUDD.
Maximanities.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A happy woman’s day-dream is of sorrow and
consolation. Every smiling wife is at heart a
weepful widow.
“Virtue” in many women is merely a power to
resist the importunities of the wrong man.
As a rule, the optimist is a pleasant fool, and
the pessimist an unpleasant fool. The more
reasonable person is absolutely painful all the
time.
The sins of the child are visited upon his parents
unto the third generation, if the old people last
long enough.
Ambition is a form of vanity which can be easily
killed by over-feeding. But it never dies of drink.
Drink only incapacitates it.
The man who “ might be saved by a really good
woman ” is not the sort of husband she is looking
for. She prefers a hopeless case.
Eollow horses and you will arrive at the dogs.
This is a turf maxim.
Love is like the green grass of the field. It
grows all the stronger for being judiciously
bruised.
No fellow was ever able to “understand” his
wife. That privilege is reserved for the lodger.
The average girl’s trouble in flirtations is -to
make up her mind how far she can go without
feeling insulted.
The danger of admitting one’s debt of gratitude
to a live person is in the possibility of being called
upon for repayment. But we can safely eulogise
the aunt who remembered us in her will. Grati-
tude was intended for legatees.
MELB.
E.F.
THE FINAL APPEAL
BEAT (cadging the price of n plug of toba[?]):
“ Don't be 'ai-d on a bloke , Guv'nor ; I wait
'ad a smoke for a week; been doin' me seven
days 'ard, and I s’pose you know wot that is?


DOWN HILL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
/O have no heart for climbing,
©j I jjfes weary mountain side - C
___ With four good wheels a-rhy mi ng
| | love to Downward ride! - v
H° D own ////// D own tIM-D own fliU '
D°wn the steep da brown hill
Ah! thols the track for me 1
yyith six good horses going
A nd Sheors lights far glowing*
| drive in ecst&cy V
Vcurse your dreamy, level/''
Safe roadways hugged by some j
my swift wheels a-revel-
L,ift up their strum and hum
Ab> downward, downward*
Old Satan’s merry town-ward-
0, that’s the road j go '
With girls and wine beside me ,
jades'beams to guide me
Thro 1 life's grey mists of woe'
ry lei me but go roarino
A'down the steep red way *
with while shoe - stars a-soarinp
I’ll give my steeds full play • '
H°>3rakefessi brake/essbrake/ess.'
pain and care and ache-less -
j-\a, that's the style ] drive 1
\Vdh twice twelve hoofs a-dashing
And red lamps far a-flashin£,
yje pass up-teams a-strive 1
0, sadly, sadly toiling,
'T'hey climb the mountain side
But v/E with blood red-boiling
porever Downward ride *
Ho paste r!p as ter! paster 1
I closer, closen,clasp her
j love to travel down
wdh wine and lovelon£side me
>vnd red death-stars to £uide me
Ah that’s my joy and crown
GRANT HERVEY.


As Told by the Woman.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
very day she moved into our street I
I knew she must have come from the bush.
Such masculine soles I never saw on any
decent city-bred woman’s shoes. Ido believe she
polished them with blacking, probably never
having heard of gloss or cream. Every one of her
four skirts was made with hideous, old-fashioned
placket-holes, which showed a breadth of flan-
nelette petticoat such as our foremothers might
have worn ; and never an underskirt to her name.
Some of her blouses were not bad, but you never
saw such a sight as she looked in a figured lustre
body which she evidently thought was rich
and fashionable. Her hats were objects. Too
large, too small, too greeny, too yellowy,
too everythingy. Any woman could see that she
just bought the shapes and a lot of bargain-counter
chiffon, baby-ribbon and jerry-built artificial
floralities When she once went out wearing a
draped toque, in grey cloth, with a bunch of
natural marigolds fastened round the front with a
safety-pin and a silver Duchess of York portrait-
brooch, I really thought the street would have
gone into hysterics; even my solemn husband
HE WONDERED
WHY THEY LAUGHED.
smiled. She also had an abominable habit of
, ~ , , . .. -x . ,
holding up her skirt by hoisting it at each side
with both her warty, grimy and nail-gnawed
a " s ' , .. , , c.,
Her domestic methods also betrayed her. She
always got her firewood in big logs which she
would saw and chop just like a man. In fact, the
lady next door said it was quite unwomanly the
way she used a great big axe. The first week she
came she nailed four palings on the broken side-
fence, screwed a new latch on the front gate, put
a pane of glass in the kitchen window, and dug up
the little garden Another day we saw her go up
a ladder to the roof of her house, carrying a bucket
and a hammer-looking thing; and we couldn t
. , , , , j • .•« i
make out what on earth she was doing, till the hus-
, , ~, . , t , * , • ■ ~ . ,
band of the lady next door, who is in the contract-
/ ... , . . . ~■*
mg way, said she was putting a new brick in the
chimney. It seemed such an uncivilised thing to
, , , ~ , .
do. Then for hours and hours she was sawing a
~r , ,, , , . j
lot of boards the timber-man had brought, and we
. j ’ ~
found that she was making a new door to the
,• i , ~ , 6 .... ■„ . u
stable, which she afterwards painted in full sight
, ’ , , mu i j 7 , •, 6
of everybody. The lady next door said it was so
, J .
Un n e^°,^ in f' , , , , ,
But if she was so particular about her fences
j... , i uui
and roof and doors, she was careless enough about
tl .. TT , , ,
other matters. Her pots and pans were simply
disgraceful, and she always used a kerosene-tin or
a billycan instead of a kettle. Io my own know-
. , J , , , .... . ~ ,
ledge she has been seen sitting in the woodshed
®. , , , i , ~ ,
cutting up her food with a clasp-knife, and
~ , . * x . . ’
drinking tea out of a lam-tin.
My husband declared that she was byway of
being young, and not at all bad-looking, but when
I pointed out that no woman who wore such
frightful boots could ever have had an attractive
face, he had not a word to say for himself.
And then she was such an unneigliborly crea-
ture. She never once borrowed washing-soda, or
clothes-pegs, or things that any really sociable
woman is liable to run short of; and, twice, when
I ran across to ask if she was using her pudding-
basin she deliberately handed it to me over the
fence, without so much as pa :sing the time of day;
wlien 1 took it back alllgot for my pains
was a short nod, and “ Yer welcome,” just as if
she’d been a man. Mrs. Chund, our next-door,
thought it was so uncouth, and we agreed that
4 here was not another lady in our street who
would be guilty of such inhospitality.
A suspicious thing about her was that there was
never a raan about the place, nor was she ever out
exce Pt shopping. Mrs. Tunks, the lady at the
wood-yard, declared that the only interest the
woman ever showed was in babies; but when,
i ust to tr y her > 1 let her bold my little Victor, I
knew at 01,06 sh 6 bad never had a child of her own.
Posifclve ly she dM not know how to unpin the
bttle dear’s things, and looked so strangely at
me wh °n I went to feed him. That made me
suspect that she had something to hide. Her
fine wedding-ring and keeper did not put me off
the scent - 1 vowed to Mrs. Chund that I would
at th 6 bottom of the mystery. And I did.
Xt was a day when baby was teething. I
took the bttle dear across to ask if she could lend
me a saucepan. Baby began to cry, and she
was interested m him at once, and invited me
in- You never saw such a funny front-room,
She had nice furniture, but it was bundled
about anyhow, and in place of pictures she had
out out illustrations from the papers and pasted
them on the walls, as
children do. There
were a hammer and
nails on the mantel-
piece, and a billy-can
of milk on the sofa,
while over the win-
dow was tacked a
bit of old sacking.
I let her hold
baby, showed her
the dear, teeny,
little tooth,
just coming
through, and,
having got
her into a
nice, cosy
chat, said that
I supposed
she must miss
her husband
dreadfully,
and would be
awfully glad
to be with
him again.
She turned
perfectly scar-
let, and look-
ed as if she
would like to
slap me. But
I was not
going back to
Mrs. Chund
empty-mouth-
ed, so pre-
tended not to
notice, and
expressed
surprise that
she did not
arrange her
furniture
more effec-
tively.
My goodness,
the woman actu-
ally burst out
crying. “ I yate
the furnitcher.
Wish I’d never
sawit. I’m goin’
ter sell it. Thought
I’d like ter keep it
just ter look at, but
earn t bear the sight of
it. If I don’t git rid of it, 111 be smashm’it up
of those d „
Stared j j should think j did . l neverB awa
woman in such a passion.
„ q , ~ • Iri vplv »
( to smithereens-chop it up,
burn . do think so > s ter git rid of it , Look
miggiS) x neyer nQ OQe yeJ . but ru bust
, f x don , fc let - t Qut now< Four year ag o me and
Frank wag marrie<L Took up 640 acre 3 at
Yallock Croek p egged along midd i in . we U f er a
time then thi ngs t rotten . Bush-fires chiefly,
go shearin , drovinj anythink sendia .
B whenerer he cou i d , i ike the good sorfc
T , c T
he was. Lonely fer me. But I was used ter it.
TT , , , „ . „„„ , ,
Hears from Frank frequent, never less n onct
, ~ ~ ’ v
ev ry three munce. Always sendin me sometnmk,
, , ~. , , , , i Tf
and always wishin’ he had more to send. It
j,, T , , , , .
was grand ter know I belonged ter him.
T , , ~ A _
Larst, up comes word hed struck a good thing
~ ’ ~ „ , „
outside Walhaller, and was sendin me somethink
. , n ~ . ~ , ,
nice fer the home. Couldn t think what it was.
m . , . ~ , , , . . Aa . A
Thought of boots, beef, ton of spuds, load of flour.
® . ’ , c ,
I hadn’t saw boots or beef fer eight munce, cept
in dreams. But it was furnitcher; parler and
, , . , „ f u„_
bedroom suite just as you see em, and they
, , t , •, -,n i QO -1 Uf»M
drove even beef outer me mind. I! rank said he a
be Crissmuss with piles of money, and was
l oattl horseB; seed; and ev’rythink
, , , , - uu i,o r
ter set us up grand and big. His sister and her
T ,. , ,
Joe was also cornin’ and would be comp ny ter me,
~ „ ,• 10 owow
as they’d bought a s’lection on y 12 mile away,
J . , , rT .
“ I lived on that furmte er er wee s. seer
shift it about diff rent twice a wee ,po is l , us
try the chairs in every coiner, win e c oc
up every hour or so, put tiesi e oar w ere e
was > t^ie ' v iere eSI ®. ° al , wa^l
and broke the wheels or t e so ypu in i roun
so constant. Was crazy over l . ® v ® r a n °
furnitcher before. Rippe up tie min o an 0 ®
skirt and made lovely win er cui mgs, an e
quite genteel.
“On Sundays reg’lar I useter dress mese, up
’s well as I could, not havin no boots, on y a
ole pair of Frank’s —clear-
out the back way down
the track, and then
sorter sarnter up
lady-like to the front,
knock genteel in
reg’lar visitin’ style,
and arsk meself
perlitely to step in.
Then I’d play visitor,
stare at the furni-
cher, an’say, ‘What
a lovely sofy !’ ‘What
a tip-top bed ! ’ ‘ How stylish that
sideboard do look, to be shore I ’
‘ Might I arsk what yer paid fer them
spankin’ curtings ? ’ and sidle haughty
down on the sofy, and bless Frank fer
bein’ so good ter me. If he’d on’y sent
me a umbreller I’d have bin purfectly
happy them Sundays, ’cos yer do miss a um-
breller when yer visitin’ yerself, and it’d have
set orf the furnitcher.
“Well, Crissmuss comes, but no Frank, on’y
a word ter say he couldn’t git up fer a week or
two. I was terrible down-hearted, and I believe
I shifted the furnitcher around four times that
day, but nothink seemed ter cheer me up. Sunday
come, but I didn’t feel fit fer visitin; so I stuck
a notis on the front door, “ Back in five minutes,”
and laid down, pertendin’ I had a headache and
wasn’t at home ter nobody. Monday mornin’ a
Gordsend comes. He Was a prospector, a rummy
ole feller and precious silent, but he was the on’y
pusson I’d saw since I’d had me furnitcher. I got
so use ter him that I fergot he was there, when
Frank come up and nearly arf killed him. Then
he gave me arf his money, and kicked me out.
I’ve bin trying ter hide away from meself in town
ever since, but the furnitcher won’t let me.”
“ But what became of the man ? ” I asked.
“What man? ”
“ The man who was nearly half-killed.”
“ Dunno.”
1 ‘ But weren’t you fond of him ? ”
“Struck on him I Why, I wouldn’t give one o’
Frank’s ole hats fer a dray-load of his sort.”
“ Then why did you let him stay?”
“ Couldn’t help meself. I had ter have someone
ter show the furnitcher to.”
I hurried back to Mrs. Chund.
LIL LIOYD.
The Mystery of Inskipp.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The whole thing was mysterious, not to say awe-
inspiring. Men discussed it on every available
occasion—on the pavement, by the fireside, and
at the bar; mostly at the bar. It was this way.
Johnson was a peculiar old bachelor who lived
in a humpy about a mile out of the township.
How Johnson existed was a mystery. He never
worked, and the stores long since had stopped his
credit. People looked upon him as a harmless
lunatic, and he received the consideration usually
meted-out to the “cracked.” One phase of his
softness was his love of living creatures. He teat
creation in the matter of breaking horses without
the whip, and his dog spoke to him in private, so
it was said.
But Johnson suddenly startled Inskipp. One
day in early summer he strolled casually into the
pub. parlor while the usual crowd was hanging
around. Conjuring cropped up in course of talk,
and the crazy one offered to bet a level pound he
would do a conjuring trick which would eclipse
anything hitherto performed. The crowd guf-
fawed. Whereupon Johnson produced a sovereign.
This was in itself so surprising that at first the
audience thought it was the trick. Boulder, the
stationmaster, covered the coin. Johnson ex-
plained what the trick was to be: Three dice were
to be placed on the table with any of the spots up.
All —the conjurer included —were to retire from
the room, and for Johnson to win the wager the
dice were to be found each with the one spot up ;
otherwise he lost.
The crowd grinned while the dice were got
IN PUSH SOCIETY—No. 1.
“ Ladies to the centre."
IN PUSH SOCIETY—No. 2.
“ Waltz to place.”
ready, and Boulder whispered his
neighbor that he wouldn’t take
the money even if he won. There
was no deception. The station*
master placed the cubes on the table,
each with the six-spot upwards. The
crowd retired into the passage in a
hilarious fashion, but became quiet at the
special request of Johnson. The latter then gave
a peculiar whistle. The crowd held its breath.
HE KNEW.
“ Yes, she has a good voice , but very little control
of it.”
"I know that, old man — we've been married these
ten years.”
From within the room came a buzz. Three soft
knocks were heard. Again came the buzz.
“Time up,” called the timekeeper. The crowd
filed-in, to gaze, dumbfounded, at the dice. For
there lay the three blocks, aces upwards, as pre-
dicted. There could be no doubt. The room had
but the one door, and it did not contain a crevice
big enough to hide a mouse, let alone an accom-
plice. Also the window was fastened. Boulder
swore, but the publican handed over the stakes to
the winner amid the approbation of the crowd.
Johnson put down the two sovereigns, and
offered to do the trick again for doubled stake.
Boulder bit again, and within three minutes the
four sovereigns were in Johnson’s pocket. He
offered to put them up again, but the crowd was
“ not having any.” Johnson was the last to leave
the room, whistling softly as he went.
Two drummers struck the town next day, and
were liqUoring-up when Johnson strolled in.
They had heard the story, and were unbelievingly
ready to cover any sum up to £lO the conjuror
would put down. He staked £5, and the proceed-
ings of the day before were repeated. The cubes
were set, threes upwards. The crowd retired,
Johnson whistled, the buzz, soft taps, and the
second buzz were heard, and the three ones were
again found uppermost !
Thus he went on for a month. Every stranger
who struck the pub. sooner or later yielded up his
shekels to fill Johnson’s coffers drummers,
squatters, travellers, all and sundry. Even the
townspeople incredulously came up, off-and-on,
to be fleeced, for there was a fascination about the
thing. And the crazy selector began to look opu-
lent and prosperous. The fame of the mystery
spread far and wide.
•** * A
The flies became troublesome as the summer
advanced, and fly-papers were placed about on
tables wherever convenient. But J ohnsori had an
antipathy to fly-papers, and never did his trick
without first stipulating that the table should be
cleared of such encumbrances. They interfered
with the mental currents, he said. One day the
publican thought it would do away with the
trouble of shifting the fly-papers if he put them on
the wall instead of the table. He did this before
Johnson arrived, and the alteration made a differ-
ence. That day a lucky miner struck the pub.
Later on Johnson turned-up. The story was told,
and very soon £5 was put up. As usual Johnson
was the last man to leave the room.
The door was closed according to rale. Johrison
whistled. From within the room came a hum like
that of a bolting saw-mill. This suddenly stopped,
but there were no taps as usual. - ■
“ Time ! ” called the timekeeper, and the crowd
entered. Two of the dice lay as they had origin-
ally been placed ; to the other, making fruitless
efforts to disengage itself, was attached by a sticky
substance on its feet, a blowfly. Johnson,
strangely agitated, liberated the insect, and held
it tenderly on the palm of his hand. But the poor
creature had partaken not wisely but too well of
the seductive stickiness of the fly-paper, and pre-
sently rolled over, as dead as Caesar’s wife* The
stakes were paid over to the miner.
* * * *
Then Johnson explained. He had struck a
system whereby any creature might be tamed and
educated—within certain limits. He had taught
that blowfly to turn the dice, one’s up, when he
whistled. He had made some money, and would
soon train a new blowfly and try another
town with it. When I left, a bagman was
laying before Johnson a scheme for', floating
the next blowfly into a company, and was
writing out the prospectus.
VIC.
G.J.M.


THE MASSEY-HARRIS
A Bicycle that spells satisfaction-a Bicycle that has the unique history of holding World’s
Records and winning Australs. On the racing path it has carried all before it. Scarcely a
racing man of note, either Professional or Amateur, but who rides a Massey, and the
reason i obvious—it is very light, strong, and very fast. Our Roadster machines, for Ladies
and Gentlemen, are noted for strength, and this is the one feature that has brought them
into such favor in country districts, where repairs are costly and uncertain in quality. We
guarantee the Massey to be the strongest and best Bicycle in the world. Send for
Catalogue, or apply at nearest Branch.
SPORTING GOODS DEPARTMENT
We hold the largest and most varied stock of Sporting Goods in Australia, and we only keep
the very best grades in each branch of Sport. Thus we can offer standard lines of known
quality— Nichol’s Special Golf Clubs and Balls, _ Physical Culture and
Gymnastic Apparatus, Tennis Racquets, Nets, Posts and Markers,
Boxing: Gloves and Striking: Bags, Cricket Bats, Balls, Wickets, &c.,
&c., and last—but not least— Ping: Pong: Sets and Balls. All the above are
specially selected by our Expert, and are guaranteed first quality.
Write to us for anything in these lines, and we will answer promptly.
MASSEY-HARRIS BICYCLE DEPARTMENT
of CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR CO., Ltd.,
357 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches in Every State.
44 The Bicycle that made Bill Martin's reputation/'
RED BIRD BICYCLES
We can add but little to what is universally known as to the remavkable success
of the Red Bird Bicycle since it emigrated to Australia. It is impossible
to find a similar example of such immediate success throughout Australasia.
milV } Because neither brains, capital, or honest, earnest hard work has been spared to
” * make the RED BIRD good— thoroughly good, sterlingly excellent in
every part. For Gentlemen or Ladies, on road or path, we hold the Best
Bicycle built, and sales prove the truth of our contention. The Red Bird
is sold in two grades— High and Medium.
Just a word for RUBY RIM BICYCLES—they are most excellent mounts,
especially made for hard roads and modest purses.
Easy Time Payments. Send for Catalogue.
SPORTS GOODS
We desire to draw particular attention to this new department,
stocks ol high=grade goods FOR EVERY GAME at Lowest Prices.
GOOLD BICYCLE CO.,
64 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches Everywhere.
FOR
B
AS GOOD FOR WOMEN
AS FOR MEN.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS.
m
m
m
7*
:
m
9B&
rurn
VU
V'
to:
CP^»'
DEt*
l»£7a£
®r»
;•
• •
••
“••MS
Iff
•*#2
&•«**
!•••
• •
»fit
■
•#
a 9
T 4
• °
9
MR
"Oc
%
\
' 3xi
m
MCp
XI
SiSfltt
htimnt
miiiuiMumniMi
<<✓
\V
mS+a*
L
WR'tA
We Piejxufaeture
Dunlop Rubber Goods
of every Description. Quality and Workmanship
Guaranteed.
Our
Hose (for dll purposes)
Packing, Sheeling,
liming Specialties,
Sporhng-
Requisites and
Engineering
Supplies, are
ABSOLUTELY
THE FINEST IN
AUSTRALASIA.
Tenders Submitted,
Samples c Prices
on
Application. J
CT>
-
m
r.
-yzn
Q&
-^^Jt ! - j round
m<
W
13
#•{
*%.
TKc buivlop Pj\eumticTyrc to, of Aus ; ncib ? sydt\ey. Adclfc Perth • sri^i\c ; CKrislcKurdw?


1
mm
■
.
■
mm
mmi
I WAS QUITE BALD.
A well-known millionaire, head of the firm of Stoer
Bros, and Coles, writes from Arundel Lodge, Bath:—
“ Gentlemen, —I am now convinced that, without excep-
tion, ‘ KOKO ’ is the best preparation possible for
restoring hair. I WAS QUIIE BALD on the front,
top, and back of my head, and I have now a fine crop of
hair. lam strongly of opinion that if the Duke of
Cambridge, the Prince of Wales, and his good brother
knew your ‘ Koko,’ they would use it. ... I am willing
to answer any questions from anyone.
“Yours respectfully,
“J. EDGEHILL COLES.”
“P.S.—I enclose my photo., just taken, and I con-
sider it a marvellous recovery of my hair, especially as I
am over 60 years of age.”
Cut out
Coupon
below
WHAT A LEADING LONDON SCIENTIST SAYS ABOUT “ KOKO," NOT
WHAT WE, THE INTERESTED SELLERS, SAY—
THE POPULAR HYOIENIC SCIENTIST (DR. OOODPELLOW, Ph.D., E.R.n.S.,
Professor of Physiology and Hygiene, East London Technical College, and
Director of Laboratory at Institute), writes :
“ The Laboratory, Bow and Bromley Institute, London, E.—During the hygienic course here
I have had occasion to deal fully with the hair, its treatment, and the qualities of the various
’ b t f t°h e f- the f L A bh r 1 t r•, yOI J would be interested to know that I certainly put
KOKO at the top of the list, as I find it to be a very desirable dressing indeed.
“The following is an extract from one of my recent lectures to Hygienic Students
fnnch'f have seen from previous work that many Hair Lotions contain lead and other injurious
is not onlv a t K<>ko ,’ tbe ty f e "T have taken as the subject of our examination to-night,
stituents! valuable tonic dressing for the hair, but is perfectly free from all deleterious con-
“ ; A perfect Hair Dressing should fulfil, amongst others, the following essential conditions :
, hi' Lt should be free from all poisonous and deleterious substances.
(2.) Pleasant in odor, or odorless.
‘ (3.) It should not affect the natural color of the hair.
J- t f BhoUld / ive ton ? to i he scalp and hair, assisting to restore the hair follicles to their
normal condition, and promoting the natural nourishment of the hair roots
•‘I can give you no better example than “Koko,” which we have proved to fulfil these
essential conditions. A
Is, 2s 6d, and 4s 6d, OP ALL CHEMISTS, STORES, &c., EVERYWHERE.
If not obtainable locally, send Postal Note for 2s. 6d. or 4s. 6d. to the Company’s Australasian
Depot, 12 Dean s Place, Sydney, and a Bottle will be sent, Carriage Paid.
$ Supplied $
tt f
by
/iv 7
i
Special
jE
to
HJ.M.
The
| EMPRESS |
$ f \i/
°f *
\t/
$ RUSSIA. $
m
%
V
<r^v
%
ml
%
v
SPECIAL OFFER IN AUSTRALASIA
to those who have
; not yet tried
KOKO
13/12/02
o'
BM
ms
aoove.:.:
Any person forwarding this Coupon with
Postal Note for 2/- and Postage (postage is
9d.) will receive immediately for trial, by
parcel post,under cover prepaid, one regular
12oz. bottle of Koko for the Hair, the price of
which is 4/6, provided it is ordered within 14
days from the date of this offer. In no case
will more than one bottle be sent for the use of
the same person on this Coupon, as we make the
offer solely for trial, knowing that it creates a
demand when once used; and this large bottle
gives it a fair trial. We find it better to thus
practically give away one bottle to make a cus-
AnunArcnnintniuhnoi.-. j .. . „ toiner than to spend large amounts in advertising.
Any person into whose'hands this offer comes may make use of it Address all Orders with
Coupons to the KOKO-MARICOPAS CO., Ltd., 12 DEAN’S PLACE, SYDNEY, N.S.W. Orders
may be sent with this Coupon after expiration of date, providing we are then issuing rhese trial
coupons, and if we are not, the money will be returned. This Coupon will be received at 12
Dean’s Place, Sydney, andonly 2/- will be required when postage Ts not nllelsary
*3" Dean s Place is off 270 George Street.
Retrenched,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT seems 50 years since I was retrenched from
the public service. It is really only two
years ago. I was in receipt of £284 per
annum, and considered it poor remuneration for
duties performed in the most important de-
partment of them all. I held the position
of ninth counter-check clerk in the receiving
branch of the War-Pensions Office. One very
cold day in April, ’OO, I received a notice that
after 30th June my services would no longer
be required. The Minister was very good, for his
initials were appended to a statement that my
sterling qualities were fully recognised, “but that
the exigencies of the service demanded a drastic
retrenchment, etc. , the notice ended by saying
that he was certain “those qualities would soon
secure a lucrative appointment in the broader life
outside.” I had been in the civil service 14 years,
and felt instinctively that he was right. I had
known for years that the narrow routine of the
Government service was cramping my abilities.
My billiards had been the envy of the juniors in
my room for years; indeed, there were but four
others who were near me at devil’s pool in the
whole department. The finesse and delicate
manipulation required to be successful in the art
—it is not a game—point out a skilful player as
being above the common ruck of men. I had
them almost to excess, so I felt no fear of the
result should my trained intelligence come into
competition with the coarse wits of outsiders. It
was certain that I would rise easily to the highest
position.
I reached home pretty late that evening, having
dined in town, and found my wife—l am married,
by-the-way—grizzling about a notice from the
grocer , he had refused to take any more orders,
and threatened proceedings for the recovery of
the amount owing by me. When I told her that
I would be making much more money after 30th
June, she brightened up ; but after I told her that
I had left the service, compulsorily, she fainted.
I had only known her to do that five times in our
married life (nearly two years). When she re-
covered, she asked, “What have you been
doing?” and I said “Nothing.” I showed her
the Minister’s initials, and the flattering opinion
he held of my “sterling qualities,” and also
explained my own view of the matter. She was
not to be consoled, however, and at last I got
quite angry at the poor opinion she had of my
natural ability, and left her, slamming the door to
show how hurt I was.
June will always be remembered by me as “the
Month of Annoyance.” Petty annoyances they
were, as I now look back, yet, in the aggregate,
bills, threats of proceedings, refusals of credit,
and so on, bothered my wife very much, and she
bothered me ; the chief annoyance, however, she
never felt. I remember it to this day. The
marker at Snooker’s rooms asked me publicly for
oash down. He coarsely said : “ I can’t pay the
rent by nodding at the landlord, you know.”
Consequently I had to play a very cramped game,
and lost considerably on the month’s play, a
thing which had not happened to me for at least
a year.
I was also considerably annoyed at a well-meant
action of my wife. She had 8 cousin, who kept a
soda-water factory ; and, quite unknown to me,
she called on him and told him I was leaving the
civil service. He told her that he was about
to lose his bookkeeper, and that I—l could have
the appointment. (I am pretty certain he called
it a job.) Clerk in a soda-water factory, at £l5O
per annum, paid weekly !!! I rejected it, of
course, yet the cousin was so eager that I should
accept that he called personally, one evening. He
became quite coarse and violent at the close of the
interview. He said I was a “damned ass,” and
even went so far as to challenge me to a fight,
when I rang for a servant to show him to the
door. Although I was considerably annoyed, yet,
in a measure, I was gratified that even he should
have recognised my abilities, and have been so
angry because he could not secure them for his
soda-water. I felt a delicacy in telling my wife
any more than that I had refused her relation’s
offer. She was about to say something, but only
sighed when I remarked that “ a person was very
foolish who snatched at the first offer, when so
many better ones were to be obtained by waiting.”
At the end of June I was free.
After 10 days’ canvass of friends and others, I
found that all the first-class positions were filled
for the time being, so that there was no present
chance of any such being vacant. I was informed
that people clung to them like grim death. I then
hunted up the second-rate concerns, and at that
period would have accepted £3OO per annum if
there were also a chance of rising; but even these
posts were occupied by persons who showed no
disposition to give them up for a chance of some-
thing better.
My superior address usually carried me straight
in to the heads of firms, where I must say that I
generally received the courtesy due to one gentle-
man by another. Not in all cases, however; for
one person—a director or something of a large
trading concern who was much impressed by my
appearance, informed me that he required a
traveller. He asked if I had any testimonials. I
produced the note initialled by the Minister. He
said, “What were you before you were a civil
servant?” I replied, “ A gentleman.” “Do you
know German ? ” I said “ No.” “ Typewriter or
shorthand writer ? ” I said “ No.” “Any experi-
ence of, or connection with, a country district?”
Again “ No.” “ You are pretty good at billiards,
I suppose?” I was glad that at last he had
■dropped on to something not common that I could
do, and began : “I flatter myself that ” when
he rudely out me short, and saying “I have no
use for you. Good morning,” turned his baok to
me. I retired at once.
After the sale of my household effects I was not
nearly so comfortable at home, if one can call
shabby furnished apartments—paid for weekly in
ad vance home; and abroad, owing to failing
credit and an appreciable falling-away in my
personal appearance, I was generally referred to
understrappers, who seemed always to be resent-
ful when I addressed them. I could see, too, that
there was a general conspiracy against me ; for I
received the invariable reply of “No vacancy.”
Such unanimity could not be accidental.
During this period of my gallant struggle with
Adversity, I was most grossly insulted by the
marker at Snooker’s Rooms. He said publicly
one afternoon when I made my usual appearance
there : “Look here, Dook, I can’t afford to have
my customer’s ears chewed by ‘bummers’ like
you. So git, and don’t come again.” It was
his coarse way of referring to a few loans I had
solicited from my friends, and as the matter did
not concern him in the least I took no notice of
him ; but he laid his beastly hands upon me, and
compelled me, as it were, to leave the place. I
never called there again.
The soda-water billet had been filled up for
some time. My wife refused to ask her cousin
again for the position. I was annoyed with her,
but didn’t say anything. She did some kind of
work for our landlord which paid for the shabby
rooms we lived in, and I didn’t want to make her
cross. Changed fortune had soured her temper,
and she was becoming unbearable sometimes.
Several times she had strongly objected to the
smell of beer. I had to explain that until I had
made my position in the world, good wine was out
of the question. She saw the force of my argu-
ment, and did not refer to jt again. I took quite
a liking to beer. It is very much cheaper than
good wine. It is very fattening, and that is the
only drawback I discovered in its use. My clothes
were getting much too small for me.
Experience has taught me that change of fortune
changes people. Months ago, I noticed that men
I once knew well, and from whom I had won
many a pound at pool, always seemed to be look-
ing away when I was approaching them, or were
sunk so deeply in thought that they did not hear
my salutation. I knew, of course, for I had often
done it myself, but never to a gentleman. If I
cut a man, it was because he was a “waster.”
Even my wife has changed, for she told me, “I
thank God that I have borne no children to you.”
I was seriously angry with her. I had compensa-
tions, however, for I had other friends who, even
if of humble origin, were at least staunch and
respected a gentleman even if he were temporarily
out of a billet. (I nearly said job.)
Eight months ago a gleam of returning pro-
sperity came upon me. I was appointed census-
collector for a country district ; £1 per day, equal
to £365 per annum. In the end I received £35
for 45 days of arduous labor. The discrepancy
was owing to the action of the enumerator of my
district ; he did not possess the finer feelings of a
gentleman, and cut me down 10 days on my own
diary, which showed 45 days. I have an unofficial
diary of the tour, which I shall publish some day.
He will then regret his action.
Since my wife left the furnished lodgings on a
temporary visit to her people, I have done many
things, and have acquired a valuable experience
of the duties of a commercial traveller, valuable
enough to suit even the exacting director I spoke
of above. I have sold tea, sewing-machines,
books on the instalment plan, jewellery (also by
instalments) and for a few days have even des-
cended to manual labor.
Recently, however, I have secured a permanent
job. I am marker in a billiard-saloon where a
good deal of pool is played, and, though in a hum-
ble sphere, my natural abilities have secured to
me the respect of my clients—with most of their
cash. I have learned, what in my salad days I
never even suspected, that “the table gets it all.”
If I had but learned it sooner !
TARBOY.
“Constance Clyde” tells a good story of
Yankee push and energy:—
The Australian who leans against the fence he has care-
fully mended with the worst kind of wood, might learn
something from the way an American man goes about his
business. Jones is a Sydney man who, two years ago,
began to notice that his head showed signs of sterility.
About this epoch there came into the hands of Jones a
printed American pamphlet, stating that a benefactor of
humanity would send to whomsoever applied a bottle of
his “Hope for the Baldheaded” free of charge. This
struck Jones as reasonably cheap, and he wrote to the
Benefactor forthwith. A few months later there came to
Jones the same pamphlet over again, and a long type-
written letter stating that though the remedy was free,
there was an ointment that went with it for which he (the
Benefactor) asked a dollar and a half, paid in advance.
He did this, not so much for the sake of the money ns to
save the self-respect of bald clients. Jones hereupon let
the discussion drop. Three months later there came to
Jones the old pamphlet over again and a three-page,
type-written letter in which the Benefactor dwolt sorrow-
fully on Jones’s want of hair, and added that, after pon-
dering long over the case of Jones, he had concluded
that perhaps Jones’s stomach was out of order. Here
followed a two - page printed description of the pro-
bable state of Jones’s stomach, and a proposal
that if Jones would send the dollar and a half
already referred to, he (the Benefactor) would forward
the remedy and the ointment and the stomach-cure
as well, and he would do this simply and solely because he
was sorry for Jones, and wanted to help him as if he were
Jones’s own brother. Jones took no notice. Two-and-a-
half months later there came the pamph.et over again and
another type-written letter, four pages long. The Bene-
factor stated that he had long been musing over Jones’s
difficult situation, and was sorrier for him than ever. It
was evident from Jones’s silence that he had fallen into a
hopeless state about his hair. It seemed plain that he
had been so deceived by the world that he had no more
trust in human friendship, and had lost his hold and
given up the struggle. He besought Jones, in two long
paragraphs, to make one strong, brave effort, and send
that dollar-and-a-half. He told Jones that if he did so,
he, the Benefactor, would send not only the remedy
and the ointment and the stomach-cure, but also, as a
mark of esteem for Jones and to show his high apprecia-
tion for Jones's moral character, he would include a valu-
able and handsome celluloid comb for him to do his hair
with when it came. Up to date Jones has been busily
employed taking no notice, but the letters still occasion-
ally come to hand, exhorting him not to slide down into
the pit of despondency, but to get out of his dreadful
condition, and to send for the remedy and the ointment
and the stomach-cure and the celluloid comb ere it is too
late.


We make our Alberts in Solid Gold throughout and with the most exquisite
finish. As makers, we are able to sell at less than London Prices.
Pearl and Turquoise
Pendantand Brooch,
15ct., 42/-
Sterling Silver
Serviette Ring, 5/6
All Diamond Pendant,
£l6/10/-
«
Sterling Silver Pin Tray,
7 inches long, 6/-
II
i:
Sterling Silver Mr.tch
Boxes, from 5/-. An
enormous stock to
select from.
Scent Bottle, Solid
Silver Mount, 5/6
■Jk
m
Our Prices
never exceed
LONDON
PRICES.
We are
Manufacturers
largely.
We pay
SPOT CASH
for
everything
we buy in
London.
THE LADY'S “Fx, & R.” WATCH
At £6 6s
Is a f-plate Lever. Has 15 Jewels.
Has a Ruby Roller Jewel.
Has solid, heavy llct. Gold Case.
Has Brequet Hair Spring-.
Has Compensated and Adjusted Balance.
Is guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in order for two years
(breakages excepted) without charge.
Will stand hard riding and knocking about.
Is made in every style of case.
Goes with profound accuracy.
Lady’s O.F. Metal Case- - - - - 40 -
Lady’s O.F. Silver Case- - - - - 50/-
Fairfax & Roberts,
M anufacturing
Jewellers,
23 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Sterling
Silver
Flower
Vase,
10/6
ssip
Pair Silver Salt
Cellars & Spoons,
in Morocco Case,
15/6
CJ
Solid Silver Match and Sovereign Box,
combined, 20/-
15ct. Solid Gold and Pearl, 10/-
“ Fx. & R.”
5-Stone Diamond
Half-Hoop Ring,
£5/5/-
We cut our
Diamonds from
the rough, and
save all
intermediate
profits.
Hair-Pin
Bottle, with
Silver Top,
3/6
Sealskin Purse and Card-
case combined, with
Silver Mounts,
3/6
Our Stock of Purses
is the Largest in
Australia.
INSURANCE
♦
Colonial Mutual Lite Assurance Society—
Increasing Strength and Prosperity.
/CONSOLIDATION was the policy adopted a
couple of years ago by the directors of
the Colonial Mutual, but this has by no means
prevented a very considerable expansion of the
business since then. Indeed, the report of this
vigorous Melbourne office is one of the most grati-
fying the management have issued for many years,
for, in addition to the satisfactory growth of the
business, the finances are in a very strong and
sound condition, and the funds are carefully in-
vested at remunerative and improving rates.
More remarkable still, the society’s business in
South Africa showed a decided improvement last
year, in spite of the adverse conditions due to
the continuation of the war, and now that the
war is definitely terminated, it is to be expected
that the improvement in that quarter will be
still more marked in the report of the current
year’s operations. The new business last year
approximated three-quarters of a million sterling,
as compared with £610,638 in 1900; and, with
new premiums of £25,712, the total premium
income, after allowing for re-assurances, amounted
to £313,651, or an increase of about £4OOO during
the year. The volume of new business is, there-
fore, more than sufficient to make up for the
natural wastage from claims, etc., but it is in
reality less remarkable for its magnitude than for
the care with which it has been selected, no less
than 20 per cent, of the assurances applied for
having been declined by the society’s experts.
This is one of the virtues of a policy of consolida_
tion and caution, and its beneficial results are seen
in the outgo for death claims, which is not only
considerably less than was anticipated, but which is
actually less than thatof the previous year, in spiteof
the increase in the number of policy-holders and in
the total amount of assurances on the books.
There are many other healthy features in this
interesting report, including an improvement in
interest rates, a marked decrease in the surrenders,
a decrease in the amount of cash bonuses paid out,
and another curtailment of expenditure, in spite of
the increased new business. With loading reserved
to the extent of 22\ per cent, of the premiums, and
an expense ratio greatly reduced during recent
years, we may soon look forward to the time when
the Colonial Mutual will be able to record sub-
stantial profits on economy. The decline in the
outgo for surrenders and in the amount with-
drawn by policy-holders in the form of cash
bonuses is a very healthy sign, indicating not
only increased confidence in the society, but
increasing prosperity among its members. At
the recent valuation, at the close of 1899, the
directors, at a cost of £35,000, adopted a more
stringent interest basis than previously, owing
to the continued fall in interest rates, and they
therefore valued all their policies on a 3§ per
cent, basis of interest, which, considering the
high interest rates hitherto prevailing in Aus-
tralasia, must be regarded as a very strict stan-
dard. It leaves the finances in a peculiarly
strong position, and must contribute largely to
the accumulation of divisible surplus during the
current quinquennium, especially as there is a
decided upward tendency at the present time in
the interest-earning powers of the society’s
funds. The rate earned last year was £4 2s. 9d.
per cent., which leaves a handsome margin on
the basis named, but this does not reveal the
full growth of prosperity, and, as a matter of
fact, about 20 per cent, of the assets appear
from the balance-sheet to have been in liquid
securities. This is an admirable result, espe-
cially as all the investments are of a very
reliable character, mainly in mortgages and free-
hold and leasehold properties, affording such
indubitable security that very high rates of
interest cannot be expected. As the mining,
manufacturing and agricultural prosperity of the
Commonwealth advances, and with favorable
climatic conditions for stock-rearing, those securi-
ties may be expected to steadily, and perhaps
rapidly, appreciate in value, to the great ad-
vantage of the surplus at future valuations, and
as the office is a mutual one, and all the surplus is
the property of the members, there are excellent
prospects of very liberal bonuses in the future
combined with a security that admits of no
question. The society’s funds last year were in-
creased by no less than £103,880, and now stand at
£2,595,870; and a significant feature is the steady
increase in endowment assurance business, the out
go under this head last year having been about
£70,000. This, of course, is very different from an
outgo in death claims, as it contains no element of
loss, and its growth represents increasing profits
and prosperity on the safest lines of development
known to modern life assurance. On the whole,
the report reflects cautious, vigorous, economical
and successful administration in every department,
and shoivs that the Colonial Mutual is not only
holding, but steadily improving, its grip on the
public respect and confidence. That the Society has
achieved its present strong position on its merits no
one can doubt ivho studies its reports and prospec-
tuses, and, in fact, it has now become an Imperial
rather than a Colonial office, for it is gaining an
increasing connection in the United Kingdom,
where it has shown its ability to compete success-
fully with the best British offices.
—Money Market Review.
London, July 19, 1902.
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society*
The results for the past year cannot be better
summed up than in the words of the report—“the
old business has been well maintained, the new
business is largely in excess of that for the previous
year, the funds have been substantially increased,
the rate of interest earned is higher, whilst on the
other side of the account, the amount paid for
death claims and surrenders has been less.” This
is only saying in other words that the Society is
maintaining and strengthening its position as a
popular and progressive institution. The com-
pany was established in 1873, and the management
has always been characterised by abundant enter-
prise, tempered with the prudence which can alone
make energy valuable in a life assurance company.
The result of the policy pursued is exemplified in
the growth of the funds, the total having increased
from £1,522,598 at 31st December, 1892, to
£2,595,870 at 31st December, 1902. Taking into
account the War in South Africa, which materially
interfered With the Society’s business, the pro-
gress made cannot but be gratifying to the policy-
holders.
The number of proposals received in 1902 was
4198, for £1,051,352, but of these 920 for £213,312
vey.e declined or not proceeded with. Exclusive
of 351, for £96,898, which remained in various
stages towards completion, the net number com-
pleted was 2927, for £741,034. These figures com-
pare with 2772 policies completed in 1901, for
£610,638. The new premium income secured was
£26,320, as against £22,179 in the previous
year. Whilst the income side of the account
shows substantial improvement, the figures on
the outgo side are no less satisfactory. The claims
by death were £119,376, or about £2OOO less than
in the previous year, and the amount paid for sur-
renders was also less, and at an exceptionally low
figure, “ always a pleasing feature in the figures of
a life office,” as the chairman said, “ indicating as
it does the confidence the members have in their
institution. A similar remark applies to the small
amount withdrawn in the shape of cash bonuses.’
The sums paid to survivors on the maturity of
their endowments amounted to £70,648, under 307
policies—a result equally pleasing to the Society
and to the policy-holder.
The investment of the funds is as formerly a
satisfactory item in the balance sheet, all the
securities being of the class suitable to a life
assurance company, while the yield of interest
(after deduction of amount to credit of investment
fluctuation fund) was at the rate of £4 2s. 9d. per
cent., as against £4 Is. lOd. per cent, for the
previous year. The addition to the funds was
£103,880. We have referred to the restriction of
operations in South Africa, and when it is added
that Australia’s last season was not a good one,
the results all over justify the claim made in the
report that the business was well maintained.
The cessation of the war will facilitate the work
both in South Africa and the old country. “ Com-
mercial statesmanship,” as a member of the board
described the part taken by the directors and
managers in connection with the situation in South
Africa, “had enabled them to bridge a very
difficult epoch in the history of the Society, and
they were now ready to build up a large South
African business worthy of the great Federal
South Africa which so many looked forward to in
the near future.”
The Colonial Mutual, with its business extending
over Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, and
the United Kingdom, is becoming one of our
great insurance corporations. Its busiqess is
managed, as we have indicated, on sound and
economical lines, care being taken in the selection
of new business and prudence in the investment
of money. The outlook for the Society has not
at ahy former period been brighter than it is at
the present time.
—Scottish Ckitic, London, October, 1902.
Banjo
BEST CHRISTMAS BOOKS.
Paterson. Rio Grande’s Last Race, and Other Verses
Uniform with “ The Mail from Snowy River.” Cloth gilt, gilt top, 5s ; by post, 5s sd.
Brunton Stephens. Complete Poetical Works.
With Photogravure Portrait.
Cloth gilt, gilt top, ss; by post, 5s sd.
“My Chinese Cook, and Other Humorous Verses.” 168 pages (Commonwealth Series), Is; by post, Is 3d.
Henry Lawson. Joe Wiison and His Mates
New Australian Stories. Cloth gilt,
3s 6d ; paper covers, 2s 6d ; postage, 6d.
Sarah P. McL. Greene. Flood Tide
A strong, dramatic story of life in a hamlet coast town, by the author of “ Vesty of the Basins.” Cloth gilt, 3s 6d ; paper covers, 2s 6d ; postage, 6d.
Charles White. “Australian Bushranging, 1869 to 1878”
This volume includes the Kelly Gang and Clarke Brothers, Illustrated, Picture Cover, Is; by post, Is 3d. Also in Volume 11. (1863-1878), with Ben
Hall, Morgan, etc., Illustrated ; Cloth gilt, 3s 6d; by post, 4s.
Complete Lists of all our publications post free on application.
ANGUS AND ROBERTSON,
89 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY; and
205 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
and from all Booksellers, Stationers, Newsagents and Storekeepers throughout Australia and New Zealand


A PRESENT FOR ALL TIME
TS
Purchased at
HARRINGTON’S
For if it’s a Camera worth having you can get it at HARRINGTON’S.
IS A
os
Best Value in—
Hand Cameras
Stand Cameras
Kodak Cameras
Pocket Cameras
Large Cameras
Medium Cameras
Small Cameras
Tiny Cameras
Amateur Cameras
Professional Cameras
Expert Cameras
Scientific Cameras
“CHALLENGE,”
But all the Best Style Cameras by the World’s Leading
Manufacturers, including the Popular “VICTOR,’
“PREMO,” “POCO,” “METEOR,” “FAVORITE,”
‘WINDSOR,” “RUBY,” “AMBER,” &c., &c.
NOT ONE
The “Champion”
i-plate Magazine Hand Camera
A Marvel of Utility and Elegance.
Pitted with finest quality R. R. Lens, simple Focussing
Adjustment, Iris Diaphragm, Brilliant View=Finders,
two Oxidised Levels, Roller=blind Shutter, which can
be set without capping lens, and be released either by
Trigger or Bulb, Speed Indicator on Roller-blind prin-
ciple ; Infallible Patented Changing Arrangement,
Plate Indicator; Two Bushes for attaching to Tripod
Stand. Magazine carrying 12 Quarter Plates.
PRICE ;£6 lOa.
n£
If you do not select from either
of these Cameras call or write
for our New illustrated Cata=
logue POST FREE.
Harrington’s “ FAVORITE ”
Stand Camera Outfit
Built of polished mahogany, with
double extension conical leather bel-
lows, rack and pinion movement, re-
versing double swingback (which moves
forward for wide-angle work) rising and
cross front, best double dark slide,
rapid rectlinear lens, iris diaphragm,
Thornton-Pickard time and instan-
taneous shutter, revolving turntable,
and three-fold tripod stand.
J-plate, £4 10s. J-plate, £6. 1-1-plate, £8 15s.
The“CRACKSHOT”
Magazine Camera
This genuine little Camera is a marvel
of elegance and utility for so small a
cost. It is nicely built, and is suitable
for taking Portraits, Groups, and
moving objects ; size of picture 3J x
2-i ; fitted with good Lens, two view
finders for upright or horizontal pic-
tures, three diaphragms, time and
instantaneous shutter, reliable chang-
ing system, and six sheaths in maga-
zine. PRICE 7s. 6d.
Agents in all the
Principal Centres.
“PREMO” CAMERAS
mm
IN ALL THE VARIOUS GRADES & PRICES.
PREMO CAMERAS, now made in various
styles are becoming very popular amongst
Amateurs. They are well built and con-
structed on the latest principles. Fitted
with good Lenses, Time and Instantaneous
Shutter, Iris Diaphragms, Double Brilliant
View Finder, Focussing Adjustment, Speed
Indicator, etc., etc., two Bushes for
attaching to Tripod, and 3 double Plate
Holders. Prices ranging at almost any
figure from 10s UP TO £4:O.
Harrington’s **
Hand Magazine Camera.
The Most Popular Camera in Australasia.
Fitted with a magazine carrying 12 quarter
plates or 24 films, 2 view finders, time and
instantaneous shutter with varying speeds,
fine achromatic LENS, 4 diaphragms, per-
fect and simple changing arrangement,
with automatic indicator. Covered with
finest material, presenting a neat and
elegant appearance.
PRICE 30s
m.-
ARRINGTON & CO., Ltd.
68 King Street, Sydney, - 93 Queen Street, Brisbane
LEADING
PHOTOGRAPHIC
Peter Todd of Morris Vale.
A TALE OP SACRIFICE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
YOU’VE heard of those heroes of yore,
Who suffered for a comrade’s weal,
Or faced the screaming bolts of war,
To perish on a wave of steel;
But this is just the simple tale
Of Peter Todd of Morris Vale,
Whom no excited thousands hail.
Pete stood six feet, a splendid man,
As hard as nails, but strangely meek,
He drove the winder at The Span,
And went to chapel twice a week.
But small, and fierce, and sickly pale,
With thin, blue lips, a trifle stale,
Was Mrs. Pete of Morris Vale !
For just a year they lived in peace,
But secrets out like slimy eels,
And soon the women—clacking geese!—
Were hissing scandal at their heels,
And Scorn’s lean finger pointed bale
At Mrs. Todd of Morris Vale :
’Twas said she ought to be in gaol !
The wife put on a saintly guise,
And like a stricken martyr trod ;
She up to Heaven turned her eyes
And “ left their punishment to God
But not their most vindictive tale
The grave composure could assail
Of Peter Todd of Morris Vale.
And so for years he took his way,
Just blind and deaf to neighbors’ spite,
Until that melancholy day
The “spiders ” nipped him in a bite,
And Peter Todd of Morris Vale,
Now broke across and mighty frail,
Went home to die without a wail.
The little parson by his bed
Fair dragged the story out of him.
“I had a dear old mate,” he said—
“My missus is the wife of Jim—
And when I’ve petered do not fail
To tell him Todd, of Morris Vale,
Has just submitted to his bail.
“ His name is Trail, he lives at Coy’s.
He saved my life at Singletree,
And it was said amongst the boys
There were no mates like Jim and me.
I left him, and, since turning tail,
Have proved my love beneath the flail,”
Said Peter Todd, of Morris Vale.
“He married Jane before the law.
I hold most women little worth,
And suffered tortures when I saw
She made his life a hell on earth.
She worried him with tongue and nail,”
Said Peter Todd, of Morris Vale—
His brow was damp and deadly pale !
“For just twelve months I suffered it,
And then fierce love I made to her,
Abusing Jim as one unfit
To own a wife so sweet and fair.
She listened, and we fled by rail.
Oh, tell him that I did not quail
Beneath the yoke in Morris Vale.
“ He was my friend —he saved my life !
What did I then but make him free ?
I ran away with Jimmy’s wife,
But he’d—have done —as much—for me !
I did my duty straight by Trail! ”
Sighed Peter Todd, of Morris Vale,
And passed beyond the mortal pale.
You’ve heard of noble souls before
Who’ve grandly passed on splintered keel,
Or midst the screaming bolts of war
Have flung themselves on walls of steel.
But this is just the simple tale
Of Peter Todd, of Morris Vale,
Whom no excited thousands hail.
EDWARD DYSON.
Us, The Levite, and the Sylvan
Maiden.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WE had genteel company to dinner last
Friday, and a grand dinner it was—a
pair of ducks and a sucking-pig, and I
had the table decked with Marechal Niel roses
(father’s favorites), and I roasted a rabbit that
father had fattened. Jessie ran it into a log, and
father brought it home and fattened it. She is a
wise dog, Jessie is. Father has her trained to run
the rabbits down or “log ’em,” but not to bite
them.
The company was a Baptist minister and his
wife—and two man-grown sons.
“We can’t let the boys out of our sight,” said
the minister. “We are afraid of them pickin’ up
■drink, or sweann’, or smokin’, and other bad
things.”
But the minister’s wife told my man in confi-
■dence, while I was showing the minister and the ■
boys a lovely clutch of 13 white Leghorns
that I hatched out under an old turkey hen
'(l’d have had 18, only the old gobbler wanted
to hatch them himself, and put his toes through
five of the eggs ; there was birds in them, too. I
had to tie him up until the chicks came out):
“ Them boys will break our two hearts. We want
to make ministers of them like their father. We
keep ’em to their Bible most of the day, but at
night, when the minister examines them, they
don’t know a single word scarce of what they were
set to learu They won’t lay their minds to it.
The minister nas threatened to take off his belt to
hem many a time, but they only laugh in their
sleeves at him, and make him handy answers*
Once, the minister forgot himself in the middle of
his sermon and reprimanded them. He ketched
them sendin’ wireless telegrams to some fast girls
m the choir. Growing girls are the ruination
of this world ; they are the devil’s instruments.
When I take the boys out for an airing, evenings,
they have eyes or ears for nothing but the girls.
They are smilin’ and salutin’ them right and left.
It do surprise me how they get acquainted with
so many of them. At home, it’s worse. I have
to watch them like a cat watchin’ a mouse, or they
would be larkin’ and foolin’ with the two servants.
We both have our fears that them two bold girls
want to run away with our boys, like the other
housemaid did with their eldest brother. We
were away for a holiday, and when we came back
she had coaxed him off with her. He was a good
boy, and we would have made a minister of him,
if that shameless woman hadn’t led him into the
paths of guilt.”
>She d have told more only I called them to
dinner. My man says it gave him all ever he
could do to keep from losin’ his temper and callin’
her an old goose. “ But I did tell her,” says he,
“to put little frocks on ’em, and wheel ’em out in
the pram, and take ’em into her own bed of
nights.” It galls father to see parents spoiling
their boys. I suppose it’s on account of him being
so fond of his own boy.
“Look here, Ellen,” says he tome, striking the
table with his fist, and making the lamp jump (I
had to ketch it or it was over), “I’d give two
cows to see them boys clear-out from that old
goose and gander, even if it was only to cut billets
for old Bob Ward.”
I was horrified to hear him speak so about a
holy minister and his wife, and I pitied the fond
parents, but I said nothing, for his temper was
rising.
Well, just as I was cuttin’ the puddin’, Jane
Jessie, and I asked her straight.
“Yes,” says she. “He is gone away lookin’
for gold with old Ben Hoggin in the range, back of
his uncle’s place, and won’t be back for a month,
and he says he will cut the livers out of us if
he finds a sign of rabbit on the barley when he
comes back, and we want your bitch to tie in the
barley paddock at nights to keep them out.”
I couldn’t stop her. I suppose she thought I
didn’t intend to lend J essie, and she wanted to
put the case clearly before me to make me see
what a desperate matter it was, so as to soften my
heart.
The minister was groaning all the time, and his
wife put her hands over her face.
“ What’s your name ? ” says the minister to her.
She only pressed closer against my back, and I
had to answer for her.
“ Do you go to school ? ” says he.
“ No,” says she, “ I go after the sheep.”
“Oh !” groaned the minister.
“Do you know who made you ?”
“Mother makes my clothes,” and she hid closer
still against my back.
“What religion is your father?” says the
minister.
“He ain’t a religion at all—he’s old Ned White.”
The minister moaned like as if he had a pain,
and buried his face in his hands. The two young
men had to leave the room, as it seemed they must
surely go pop, and their mother followed them,
fearing that something might happen to ’em.
Then I sneaked the miserable girl out and
caught Jessie for her.
The minister roused himself up and started to
talk about the semi-savage state of “ those crea-
tures in the bush.” My good man took it to him-
self and turned on the minister, and didn’t leave
him a feather to fly with hardly. It was a sore
point with father, as lie thinks that there’s not a
more intelligent or cultured man in Australia
than he is, and neither there isn’t.
White—old Ned White’s youngest daughter—
came in, and walked straight up to me, and said
out real loud : “ I come for the bitch.”
They never knock, or say “ Good day,” or any-
thing, but just drop in and ask for what they want.
She is 15, Jane is, and big for her age, and out-
grows her frocks quick. The one she had on didn’t
quite cover her knees, and she was bare-headed
and bare-footed. She looked a hard case, I’ll
allow. The minister and his wife were shocked,
and father told me after that “If he was stuck he
wouldn’t bleed.” But the two boys enjoyed it,
and had a tough job to keep straight faces. I saw
their sides shakin’.
She’d be a nice girl if she was taken care of.
She has the prettiest brown eyes you ever saw,
and her hair is a nice rich color, and goes in little
rings over her head and forehead. It’s cut short.
I cut it when she was a little thing, and told her
to keep it so, or the boo-boos would take her to
the bush.
When I got over being so dumbfounded I
told her that we had no dog of theirs.
She only hid behind me, and said, over and over
again, “ I come for the bitch.”
“ Sit in and have a bit of dinner, Jane,” says I.
It was the only way I could think of to get her
from behind my back.
“No,” says she; “I’m full.”
“ You’ll try some fruit, then ? ”
“No, I couldn’t. I’m full as a frog.”
“ Well, drink a cup of tea.”
“No ; I’m not dry.”
The two young men exploded at that, and the
minister and his wife looked up to Heaven, and
father shot a black, angry look at me that said
plainly, “ Take her out at once, Ellen.” I rose up
and asked her in a bouncing way to tell me plain
what she wanted.
“I want the bitch,” says she again.
It struck me that she might want the loan of
N.S.W.
ANNA KENNEDY.


X/ i?
■j/m
w
n&
a^ssgw^^rKsi-*'
Tntii**ni hiOiimi lW l! ** , li T -~ti
<2
THE TEST
OE TIME
gHcwc
SAW
IME has been unable to produce
the equal of our FOOD PRO=
DUCTS. In point of QUALITY
they have always stood in a
distinct class by themselves—the VERY
HIGHEST*
Combined with them is the ex=
perience of closely approaching HALF
A CENTURY. We incorporate in our
methods all that Science and Practical
Knowledge can produce.
We can supply it.
If you require a regular supply oft
PURE PASTEURISED MILK-the j-
best that money can buy. . . .J
If you need the VERY FINEST - *
BUTTER, made from carefully >-
graded Cream-the Acme of Perfection J
~We will supply it.
If you want FISH, GAfIE, and
POULTRY, of thoroughly depend-
able quality .
Send us the Order.
II you use ICE in summer time,
and want it Pure, Clear, and as
Hard as Crystal
}
Get it from us.
If you prefer CAKES and PASTRY
of unusually High Quality—the I
“F. F. and I.” quality, which is j
nowhere else obtainable , . .
Let us have your enquiry.
We issue a handsome Booklet. It is sent post free
anywhere. Whether you live in Town or Country there
is something in it to interest you.
Fish, Game and Poultry Depot - 135 King-st,, City,
Elite Refreshment Rooms - - 92 King-st,, City,
Head Office 0 Refrigerating Works, Harbour-st,
D.S.UI. F r ®sh Foodsi|ce Co.,[td., Sydney
A Real Sport.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THERE was to be a big prize-fight in Mel-
bourne. When Zack Murphy, keeper
of “the Noah’s Ark,” heard that the match
had been definitely fixed, his brain bethought how
he was to make money out of the fact. If the
fight were to be contested at the usual spot, the
receipts of the evening would have to be carried
from that ricketty structure to a bank.
Dan Hurden, of the “Rats,” was leaning
against a lamp-post in Bourke-street, wondering
how long the police intended enduring his defiance
of the Vagrancy Act, when a small urchin came
up and said that Old Zack wanted him. It was as
the summons of a king to his courtier. In the
middle of the lumber-crowded yard Old Zack un-
folded his scheme.
“It’s a dead sweet cop for a bloke game enough
ter take it on,” said he, “ef yer aint caring about
takin’ chances, acourse I’ll look out fur someone
else.”
“I’m willin’ fur anythin’,” announced Dan,
respectfully; “ef yer show me what ter do, I’ll
have a cut at it.”
“ It’s like this,” explained Zack, “ they’ll start
the fight at nine, an’ you’ll have ter stick there
until yer see Honkey Brown shift fur the doors.
Keep yer lamps on him, an’ the tick he moves,
you git off the mark too. He’s goin’ ter square up
wif the ticket-boxes then, an’ it won’t be long
afore he starts off fur the bank wif the stuff in a
bag. Now, when yer see him shift, you get on,
quick an’ lively, ter the corner of Brennan’s-lane
—that’s the darkest part. A couple o’ good
fellers—l won’t say who yet—’ll be there wif a
cart, an’ another chap ’ll be on the groun’ ter len’
a ban’. Now, Honkey’s got Martin McKay as a
sorter body-guard. Martin’s goin’ ter carry a
squirt, but he’s dead fur us. Tumble ? ”
Dan Hurden nodded.
“So all yer got ter do is, one o’ yer swipe
Martin acrost the head, while the other knocks
out Honkey. Yer jes’ chuck the bag inter the
cart, jump in after, an’ drive off. Martin ’ll
make his iron bark a bit, ter keep the game up, but
he won’t mean nothin’. Now, Dan, this here’s the
show of a lifetime, an’ if yer pull it off, why, I’ll
stand yer a score ; an’ anythin’ of the sort I has
again, why, it’s yours.”
Dan’s mind was undisturbed by any of the
arguments of apostles of discontent. His ideas of
the relations of employer and operative were
elemental. He rejoiced that such men as Zack ex-
isted to provide such men as himself with the means
of making a few pounds. During the week
that elapsed before the fight, Dan thought of
nothing but the opportunity of his life that was to
come. He rehearsed the scene over and over
again. He went to the corner of Brennan’s-lane,
marked the spot where he and bis companion
would stand, and felt himself scampering after the
retreating cart with the sound of revolver shots in
his ears. In his dreams he dealt blows of great
seeming weight and dexterous lightness to Martin
M‘Kay, and blows of transcendent power to
Honkey Brown.
The night of the fight arrived. Dan was told
the name of his companion, and was pleased. The
latter was the hero of a hundred robberies—a man
with whom any of the Rats would have deemed
it an honor to work. Dan took a seat in an ex-
pensive part of the amphitheatre with money pro-
vided by Zack. He watched the preliminary
spars with interest. One of them was so willing
that he momentarily forgot the great work that
lay before him.
Then there was an immense shout. The two
men who were to fight the mill of the night
clambered into the ring. One of them was
Ginger Whelan, the one in all Melbourne whom
Dan regarded as the type of manliness and beauty.
Man had been gradually developing through the
centuries that such a being as Ginger Whelan
might crown the long, vast procession. To be
Ginger Whelan was Heaven. Ginger was pitted
against Harry Bester, whom Dan Hurden
told the man next him was “a real swine.” He
looked towards the door. Honkey Brown was
smiling over the great crowd, thinking that £3OO
was in his pocket. He showed no signs of moving.
The gong brought Dan Hurden’s eyes to the ring.
Before the last vibrations died away the men
were together. They fought with equal vigor
and equal foulness. It was one of those fights
which raise an audience to madness. Dan Hurden,
seeing his Ginger Whelan warned for fouling,
joined half the spectators in howling-down the
referee with hideous but unintelligible blas-
phemies. He cheered frenziedly when Ginger
contrived to jog his knee into his opponent’s
stomach unobserved. It was plain that there was
a bitterness between the fighters. They puncheJ
and tore at each other as the perspiring referee
desperately divested himself of garment after
garment, until he finally stood almost as nude as
the fighters.
When Ginger Whelan was down for nine
seconds in the tenth round Dan froze with horror.
When he rose and forced Bester into a corner and
pounded his head till he was borne to the floor in
a wild, tiger-like fashion, Dan rose and howled
like a byena. He was the last to obey the frequent
calls for silence, and in the fifteenth round, when
Ginger Whelan staggered over to the helpless
Bester as he hung on the ropes, and swung hand
after hand on his jaw till he fell, senseless, Dan
was the pioneer of the crowd which rushed the
ring.
He felt in a frenzy of delight as he was swept to
the door in the crush.
Outside, he burst free of the crowd and stood
for a moment in an open space looking for some
acquaintance. Suddenly his heart stopped. A
man approached him swearing deliriously. It was
Zack.
“You cow,” he said, “ ter slip me up ! ”
Dan stammered with all the apparent guilt of
innocence. “ I never—straight wire—l never
. I forgot all about it—l did—lookin’ at
Ginger.” . .
“ That ’ll do yer,” said Zack, viciously. “Dy e
know what’ll happen to yer ? I tell you straight,
one o’ these nights they’ll fish yer corpse outer th’
Yarra, yer cow ! ” .
Three months later, when the detectives dis-
covered by some miraculous means that Dan had
done the Falls Bridge affair, he began to realise
that business men sometimes speak in parables.
The Rats were sorry for Dan. They learned of
bis disgrace, and being idealists, made excuses for
“Yer know,* said Kingy in extenuation,
“ Dan’s a real sport.”
CIRO.
The Perfect Husband.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ "TITTHAT’S a pawnshop ? ”
W The grey dusk of a summer
" " evening was creeping over the
hospital ward. The last consignment of medicine
had been handed round in the tiny glasses, the
counterpanes folded up and put away till morn-
ing, and each patient smoothed and tucked-in.
“What’s a pawnshop?”
It was No. 11, the woman from the Backblocks,
who spoke. Her shrill, twangy voice broke in
upon the drowsiness of the rest.
“ Lor’, ” said No. 12, “ don’t you know ? It’s a
place you take anythink you can spare, and they
lend you so much on it. There’s three gold balls
hangs outside —that means 2 to lit don’t come
out again.”
“Well, I never!” said the woman from the
Backblocks.
The patients had roused-up again, and a murmur
of conversation rustled through the ward. No.
10, the Perfect Lady, leaned over the intervening
empty bed, and spoke to No. 8. No. 8 was the
Echo.
“I wonder,” she said, “no one has taken Mrs.
Silk’s place. She was very well in her way, but I
never could quite make her out. There was the
husband who came on Sundays, and the cousin
who came on Wednesdays and brought her fried
fish.”
“It was lovely fish,” said the Echo, dreamily.
“I wonder where he got it.”
“ I don’t approve of kissing between grown-up
cousins,” said the Perfect Lady, “he might just
as well have been the husband ”
“It don’t look well, a person having, as you
may say, two husbands,” said the Echo, with the
air of enunciating a profound moral sentiment.
“I hope next time we shall have some one we
feel sure about ”
* * * *
There was a movement—so gentle a movement
it could hardly be called a bustle —at the big door,
and a nurse cautiously wheeled forward a fresh
arrival to the empty bed. It was too dark to see
much of the new patient, except that she wore a
pale blue dressing gown, adorned with lace (which,
despite the dimness, the Echo, who had been a
draper’s assistant, instinctively knew to be
“good),” and ornamental pins in her abundant
hair, the sort of fair hair usually associated with a
Christmas doll. She was what might perhaps be
fitly described as “full-blown,” suggestive of good
living and plenty of it. The Perfect Lady was able
to discover that her name was Mrs. Ling, and that
her husband had with great difficulty been per-
suaded to allow her to enter the hospital. As the
husbands of the Perfect Lady and the Echo had
been similarly antagonistic, this formed a bond of
union at once. And then the night-nurse came
round with her lantern, and all was silent.
* * * *
Nurse Muniever was black-eyed and nimble-
tongued. She had rather a fetching way of
calling the patients “girls,” and ordered and
scolded and petted them by turns as though they
were children, and even, when the spirit moved
her, bestowed on them appropriate pet names.
When she “came on” in the morning she took
stock of the new No. 9, and said ‘ ‘ Hello, Fluffy!”
So Fluffy, more or less, Mrs. Ling became.
The Perfect Lady and the Echo were the oldest
patients in the ward, and by reason of this and
their social standing (the husband of the Perfect
Lady was popularly supposed to be chasing De
Wet, while the Echo’s lord and master was a
shop-walker) controlled all matters of etiquette,
and enforced gradations of intimacy in a manner
occasionally galling. So that the ward approved
of Fluffy, who, while accepting their proffered
friendship as her right, showed a friendly interest
(backed up by substantial items, such as lollies,
biscuits and bloater-paste) in all the rest, and a
keener insight than might have been expected in
ways of life apparently far removed from her own.
Until the advent of Fluffy, it had been the
fashion with each married lady to pose as a
wedded martyr. The best of husbands, it appeared,
had their peculiarities; while the worst were
hardly fit for publication. Mrs. Ling, however,
frankly confessed that her husband ad-ored her;
that if he could have dressed her hair with dia-
monds instead of artificial pins he would have
done so; that whatever eatable or drinkable she
might desire he immediately procured (as it tran-
spired that he kept an eating-house, this was not im-
possible of belief); that he worshipped the very
ground she trod on. As this state of affairs
seemed to reflect unfavorably, in some indirect
way, on the fascinations of the rest, the other
ladies rose conversationally in a body and pro-
ceeded to rehabilitate their absent lords with such
scattered remnants of virtue and amiability as
they could rake together.
And there sprang up among them a growing
desire to see Fluffy’s husband, with whom, after
all, none of their own could compare. He would
not be able, she said, to visit her until Sunday,
because he could not trust the oversight of the
dining-room, in the arrangement of which he was
most fastidious, to anyone but herself,
On Sunday, as the bell clanged and the visitors
filed in at the doorway, a small man, well groomed
and clad in faultless summer tweeds and a straw
hat, peered eagerly forward, and then with a
plunging shuffle propelled himself rapidly forward
to Mrs. Ling’s bedside and greeted her with a kiss
so fervent that (the woman from the Backblocks
suggested) “it would ’a’ watered a horse.” He
was a Chinaman 1
And Fluffy’s name, as the Perfect Lady, with
gymnastic exertions, succeeded in reading from
her board next morning, was Mrs. Ah Ling,
Fluffy took the (to her) expected denouement quite
comfortably, and the ward (with the exception of
the Perfect Lady) enjoyed the situation, not being
disposed to forego their accustomed dainties, for
Fluffy was nothing if not open-handed,
“You see, miss,” she remarked to Nurse
Muniever, making her bed next morning,
“ there ain’t much difference in men when you’re
used to ’em; I’ve got my marriage-lines, and
mine’s able to keep me” (with a glance at the
Perfect Lady’s faded wrapper) “as a lady should
be kep’.”
* * * •
“What do you think of Fluffy’s husband?” said
Nurse Muniever to Sister Crockett in the privacy
of tea-drinking.
“Weel,” said Sister Crockett, relapsing into
accent with a queer little smile, “I’m thinkin’
he’s just like ’ither pairfec’ things—we wadna’
hae him oursel’s.”
JOHN CAREW.


TASMANIAN
A LI
5S
P
*HOBART
5$
O
C 3
ft
C
ft
Er>
Burns, I»hHp&Co^W
Brewed from
HOPS_^.
«- MALT
WITH WATER FROH
The Eternal
... Snows
OF
Mount Wellington,
Hobart,
TASMANIA.
A SPARKLING
BITTER ALE...
Just Like English
Equal to English
Much Cheaper than English
A HIGH-CLASS BEER
.. IN..
HOGSHEADS,
HALF-HOGSHEADS,
BOTTLES (Pints and Quarts*)
PRICES on appUoation to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., acents,
Brisbane, Bowen, Cairns, Charters Towers, Cooktown,
Normanton, Thursday Island, and Townsville.
TESTIMONIAL.
station, via uunnamuiia,
Ist October, 1902.
To Messrs. Burns, Philp k Co., Ltd, Brisbane. lm proper, u, uz .
.. f Uear write to inform you that your trial consignment of MR. PULLEINE’S SPECIALTIES arrived safely, and am pleased to say that
my wi e oun em to be all that is claimed for them. The de-hydrated potatoes, green peas, butter beans, and concentrated vegetables for soup are most
e icious w en cooked in accordance with the directions, and I cannot write too much in favor of his evaporated plums, prunes, peaches and raisins; they
eep so we in is trying climate, their flavor is excellent and so different to the ordinary sun-dried, cheap fruits which go maggotty so readily. lam
lecommen ing em to all my brother squatters, and, in my opinion, it is only a matter of time when all stations will include them on their store list.
I am, dear sirs, yours faithfully,
JOHN
For Prices and Full Particulars write to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., Queensland,
Agents for Mr. F. A. Pulleine, Spennithorne Factory, Lobethal, South Australia,
BURNS, PHILP & CO.
Are also AGENTS for
LINDEMAN’S CAWARRA WINES™
TECE CHAMPION A.USTRA.LIAKT WIKTES.
„ Queen Victoria Market cellars, where the Cawarra Wines are stored in Sydney, are the most extensive in Australia, and contain the largest
s ocks of Old Wines in the Common weal tli. These Wines are matured in wood from sto 10 years before being bottled.
All Varieties in Case and Bulk
Kept in Stock by the Sole
Queensland Agents,
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.


TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT RAILWAYS
THE HOLIDAY RESORT OF AUSTRALIA!
How and Where to Spend a Holiday.
SEASIDE RESORTS.
Mountain, Lake and River Scenery.
SPORT with GUN and ROD.
Attractions for the Brush, Pencil and Camera.
IMPROVED steamer communication, extension of railway lines
and reduction of fares are steadily bringing into greater
prominence the natural advantages as a Tourists’ Resort
possessed by Tasmania. Favored by a salubrious climate—
where drought and hot winds are unknown, and any unusual
rise of temperature provokes a cooling breeze from the sea—the island
State also possesses a varied range of picturesque scenery, and, being
a mountainous country, a journey of but a few hours will ensure a
considerable change of temperature.
TASMANIA is within 14 hours’ steam of Victoria, and 48 hours
from New South Wales. On the North, South and West Coasts are
numerous ports, connected with the mainland by regular inter-State
steam services. Regular lines of steamers ply between Melbourne,
Sydney, and New Zealand ports to Hobart; from Sydney and
Melbourne to Launceston and Devonport; and from Melbourne to
Devonport, Burnie, and Strahan. From the middle of February to
the end of April, the ocean-going steamers of the P. & O. and Orient-
Pacific companies, and some of the steamers of the White Star and
the Aberdeen lines, call regularly at Hobart for consignments of fruit
for the London market; the mail steamers coming from Sydney and
proceeding from Hobart to Melbourne, and the other vessels coming
from Melbourne and leaving Hobart direct for London, via the Cape.
The upper reaches of the Tamar are now lighted from Rosevear’s to
Stephenson’s Bend, so that steamers can now come up to Launceston
independent of the daylight.
Once within the island, the tourist will find that railway extension
has linked the North-west and West Coasts into the railway system of
the State, and there is now through railway communication from
Hobart and Launceston to Burnie (Emu Bay), and thence to Mount
Bischuff, Mount Read, Zeehan, Strahan, and Queenstown (Mount
Lyell). On the Main Line Railway the express train service between
Launceston and Hobart, which is done under six hours, is now equal
in comfort and convenience to any service in the mainland States.
The spacious double bogie carriages, fitted with lavatory accommoda-
tion in both first and second classes, are upholstered in leather, with
the latest inventions for comfort and ventilation, and are lit with
electric light. The powerful passenger engines used on the express
carry a Pyle electric head-light.
In addition to improved transport, a superior class of accommo-
dation is now obtainable in country centres, and visitors will find
ample accommodation at hotels, coffee palaces, boarding houses and
farms at from 20s. to 635. per week.
/
#'
1
mm
i
m
; «
» #
/•:
,
\w.*
wm§
« <s>?
,C 'f
A
V
i i»1
, vV ' • *> *?
v £ *
> ' y- ; *
i
i' . ,
M
sM
(< :
. ■
M f
‘ f!& ’',j
.r. ,
t* ; -
'- . '
V..
;■ ' tV T-
/:** r
-v * A ♦'•*
if- . ji-
J Wtefp? • '. Jv
0
m
1 fi
*1
■ \
$1
®1
af
■s:
W#
m
m
r£*i
T h
j»
*p?
•«£> -
- *? •
P\.
Sfc -,
l &
'-S»V ■»
. *' - .: A , , _ '• i* l
* v r ~; - v .....
"W&r Vv -A
x*. •; - , -./ f \
v,
i
Anglers will find special attraction in the numerous rivers and lakes, which are
stocked with brown trout, Loch Leven trout, migratory trout, and rainbow trout j
while excellent bream and sea fishing may be enjoyed at Little Swanport, the
Scamander, George s Bay, and other seaside resorts. The record catch of brown
trout at the Great Lake last season was made by three anglers, who, in four days,
captured 87 trout, giving an average weight of 91b. 6oz. each.
RUSSELL FALLS (Top Fall).
The artist has a wide choice of scenic attractions in the natural wonders
of Tasman’s Arch, the Blow Hole and Tesselated Pavement, the limestone
caves of Chudleigh and Mole Creek, the orchards of the Huon and Derwent
Valley, the fertile agricultural areas of the Western and North-Western
districts, the tin mines of the North-East, the charms of the Lakes district, and
the rugged scenery of the West Coast mineral fields.
)
r\- . *
fl ! i.
/ Jti
\ :'%
lx
II
r#
r* a » \\'\ V (S '
.y y ’ ’ -
ass
a A \4*>
> iliA- *
A <i A
.:
* y y
- ’
% HI i
fiss«fc
fl
*>*
£4
y
r*s
5» :«*»&£**
: • •?**>
5sS
M
■■■■-
: ■ , >mx
v *s - - -;•■.. -
**NTBc f&HZYf NanPBLK.
•SB4**',
B&flmti f x aaftnr ,
♦ ♦
Excursion Tickets
will be issued during the
CHRISTMAS HOLIDAYS
from all stations.
Special..
Excursion Trips .. .
WILL BE KUN AT
Cheap Excursion Rates
at intervals during the summer months to
NEW NORFOLK, GLENORA,
DENISON GORGE . 4 4
and other popular resorts.
RAILWAY TIME-TABLES, MAPS
and PAMPHLETS, descriptive of the
various places of interest, cost of trans-
port, and lists of hotels, boarding houses,
etc., with their tariffs, can be obtained
gratis from any of THOS. COOK & SON'S
Agencies ; and at the offices of the UNION
STEAMSHIP COMPANY, Ltd., and Messrs.
HUDDART, PARKER & CO. Proprietary
Ltd., at SYDNEY, MELBOURNE; and the
principal seaports in NEW ZEALAND.
THE DERWENT AND HOP GARDENS AT NEW NORFOLK.
SST T2IS&? 3S3S. a " d A "' Val »' *" OMinarynd sp»i., Train., and
C. HUDSON, General Manager.


■Hpagi
m
bfe ssla
i'cffiS
:::::;.
/
plflfl
EEBsh
;g%US;£U:a»::«ch;
i„ ‘S: :s; '
M
INl! :1:
SSS3S
1
;Sifßi
Mr 'i
• i§B
m
<y'' Mr
s
{ip:
■
mm
®ii
&
•iMiiU
BS*?
mm
3X%(.
". •- • ***&*. X
FTfc ,
fell
gBHB
%^psK£{Bs
111
1
Hi
i
ii i i! " i
:93}:::<cck:?j
I
m
l«ii
liHilll
S) 11
ft
*
ir
Z
Biisisssa
i
BPP—■
!1e vftH *ar i
r-:;:r**:*!*»>:• -ffl 1111 £}& MS 5 :
mxW
■
«a
■
■
BY
inulill'flili IlllmVVr m i
FYOUfil SEX HAVE BEEN
nap
mm
warn
MPMNMMMaMMMPI
ALWAYS YOURS
while
■SBiiiilll
Th e FREEMANS WALLACE
.INSTTITUITet
on • ■
SY DN EY
CUREDtoSTAY CURED
J b !
(
nyTOTHING wrecks a man’s life more surely or quickly than derange-
JNI ments of the vital organs. A weak man is <
A DRONE UPON SOCIETY j
lacking that natural strength which is the keynote to commercial success
and domestic happiness. His deplorable condition haunts him day and
night; it is never absent.
Thousands of men who have been restored to Health and Vigor
have applied to us after years of bad treatment
By Quacks and Charlatans*
They have had years of intense suffering, they had given up hope, but
we have cured them.
We are so certain of establishing
Quick and Thorough Cures
that we take no case in hand unless
We are Positive we can Cure*
Pitiable cases of nervous wrecks and run-down men and women
have come to us every day and we have made them perfect in health
Wb have re-invigorated them in a few weeks by our wondeiful
Electro-Medical Treatment
or the combined use of Electricity and Medicine.
Here are two extracts from letters received from eminent patients
which should set you thinking :
I__ _ _
A Prominent Sydney Post Office
Official- states:
“ I tried your Electron Medical system
of restoration for a period of three
months. I am COMPLETELY CURED
OF INDIGESTION AND RHEUMATISM
from which I suffered for years.”
Mr. Philip Newhury, the popu-
lar tenor, states:
“For years I suffered from Uric
Acid in the Blood causing rheumatic
tendencies, but thanks to the wonderful
efficacy of your Electric * INVIGORA*
TOR,’ I am completely cured.”
All Attestants may be interviewed and original testimonials examined.
The Specialists’ Fees : Advice and Medicine, ONE POUND only.
Electricity and Medicine is the new system of treating debilitating diseases. Scientists employ it, the public praise it. The IN IG ,
worn round the waist nightly, re-invigorate the entire nerve-centres of the body. The medicines, which are of a specially reconstructive c larac er, one up
the digestive and nutritive processes, laying the foundation of a grand new healthy life. These “IN VIGOR A TORS are modelled after those used by
THREE PHYSICIANS TO THE LATE QUEEN
and they are perfect, and in bad cases will completely cure INSOMNIA, INDIGESTION, EPILEPSY, RHEUMATISM, CHRONIC DYSPEPSIA,
SCIATICA, and FUNCTIONAL NERVE DISORDERS. They are good for women to wear. Consider these prices well with those you are asked to
pay for press-puffed old-time Electric “ Belts. ”
m- NOTE.—The Fhysician-in-Chief is the only Medical Practitioner advertising 1 Electric Belts in
PRICES.
You see here the value
Copper Plate, £1
Practical Private Tests given.
; Silver Plate, £1 10s; Solid Silver, £3 ; Solid Cold, £lO (2oz. 18ot. Cold).
Certificates of Genuineness shown from Electrical Experts,_ proving they have the true non-conducting vulcanite
insulation, without which no “ BELT ” can give a true medical electric current.
Registration by the Medial Boards of
New South Wales
South Australia
Victoria
England
and
America
Open for inspection of the PHYSICIAN-IN-CHIEF to the Institute, of
whom SIR DOMINIC CORRIGAN, BART., says: “I entertain a high
opinion of Dr. Wallace in regard to his professional qualifications.”
The operations of the INSTITUTE are world-wide. Scarcely a day
passes but SOME GREAT CURE is reported through the medium of
the SPECIALISTS’ SYSTEM of HOME TREATMENT. Patients are
treated as well in THEIR OWN HOMES as if visiting personally. To
the poor professional advices ARE ALWAYS GIVEN FREE.
The SPECIALISTS’ treatment is sure and effective. Improvement
is rapid and certain.
ga
if» |C V c »
O'
&Q AAN
b
V
ra
P,u°
o**
*GICA
S^tutS
Post Free, Is.
SEND FOR THIS BOOK
A magnificent Xmas present for yourself and your friends after you.
It is not a mere pamphlet, for it contains 550 pages of valuable informa-
tion, illustrated by 150 medical plates of genuine artistic excellence. It is
a work which should always be in your house, in everyone’s house, all over
Australia.
For One Shilling in Stamps
you can procure this splendid Volume POST PREE to any address in
Australia. If you want a Presentation Book here is your chance. It fully
explains the application of Electricity to the human frame. Over 100
leading Australian journals eulogise it “AS A WELCOME ADDITION
TO AUSTRALIAN LITERATURE.”
FREEMAN * WALLACE
ELIZABETH and BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director. Medicines packed Free •from Observation and sent to all parts of Australia.
Dr. RICHARD WALLACE, M.D., L.R.C.P., E., L.F.P.S., E., L.M., Physician-in-Chief. Letters treated with Professional Secrecy and promptly replied to.
ELECTRO-MEDICAI l
and SURGICAL INSTITUTE


QUEENSLAND GEMS
Opals, Sapphires, Jacinths, Rubies,
Topazes, Pearls, and Amethysts.
REGISTERED
Opals and Diamonds-
£B Bs.
Sapphiies and Diamonds,
from £8 to £25.
Opal and Pearl £3.
Sapphires and Diamonds,
£l7 10s.
Sapphire and Diamonds-
£3o.
Sapphires, £8 15s.
Australian Rubies, £4.
Pearl and Diamonds, £2B.
Opal and Diamonds, £l6.
1
Sapphire and Diamond
Cluster Pin and Stud,
£l2.
We hold the LARGEST
COLLECTION OF GEMS
in Australia.
DJB
Yellow or Green
Sapphire, £6 10s.
Ruby and Pearl Pin-
£3 10s.
REGISTERED.
Ruby, Diamonds & Pearls,
£3 lEs.
REGISTERED-
Sapphire and 6 Pearls,
£4 ss.
Sapphire & Opals, £5 5s
Opal and Pearls, £4 10s.
Sapphire and Diamond,
£l2.
AH finest Diamonds, .£27;
smaller down to £lO.
Queensland Ruby, £3 lCs.
Three Queensland Rubies,
£4 15s.
3 Opals and 2 Diamonds,
£l4; smaller, £B.
18ct. Gold Lever Watch, £25;
smaller, £22.
18ct. Lever Watch, £lB.
V
ALL GEMS Mounted in 18ct.
Gold only.
All Classes of Rough Stones Cut and Polished.
Buy from the Producers, and
so avoid the heavy profits of
the middleman.
«
15ct. Gold Opal Bracelet, £8 10s.
Silver Lever Watch, 50s.
18ct. Gold ditto, £l3.
M
18ct. Gold Watch
£6 10s., £7 10s., £lO.
Opal and Pearl
Pendant, £6 10s.
Turquoise and
Pearl Brooch,
£3 10s.
Bird Brooch, on Pearl-end Bar,
30s.
Pearl Harp Brooch,
£5.
Sapphire and Diamond Star,
£4O. All Diamonds, £BO.
The World produces no finer Gems than the Australian Gems Cut and Polished by
FLAVELLE, ROBERTS & SANKEY, Ltd
Lapidaries and Manufacturing Jewellers,
Parcels of Rough Stones Bought on Inspection.
Offers Telegraphed Immediately.
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.


CELLULOID
COLLAR
GOODNESS
We sell the good kind of Celluloid
Collars. Our Celluloid Collars
have a nice, white, clean appear-
ance, and stay white. They clean
well, and last longer than other
kinds. They save lots of money, be-
cause you can wash them yourself.
In all the latest styles and
shapes, at Lowest Prices
for Highest Qualities.
PERDRIAU & CO.
Rubber Merchants,
270 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
WE SHIP ON APPROVAL
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles. Fully warranted.
Latest
Models'
,<£2m 10 t0£5.5.0
Dunlop Tyres, Steel or Wood Rims,
Free Wheels, Mud Guards and Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID
To any Port in Australasia.
TYRES, ACCESSORIES,
' Sporting Goods and Sewing
' Machines Half Usual Prices.
1 Write for Catalogue and Special Offer
Using 2jd. Stamp. Address Dept 346 D
Mead Cycle Co.
Chicago.
U.S.Am
60
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. c. lEIjIDI2/I3DG-IE &c GO ,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK*
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY,
For all Services kept in Stock.
Send for Catalogue.
BENNIE, TEARE &CO Representatives.
•s#
\
%
Stocks at Sydney, Melbourne, Perth, Coolgardie.
KEMP’S PATENT SHEEP BRANDING UQUID
Is now being used by hundreds of woolgrowers, amongst them some of the largest squatters in Australia.
IT WILL DO EVERYTHING THAT IS CLAIMED EOR IT.
It will stay on the sheep’s back as long: as required. It will NOT injure the wool.
the ordinary scouring process.
It will dissolve out under
Manufacturers and Sole Agents :
FEtTOD, GRimiliaOE * GO., PIEGBOURDE.
BLACK, BED, and BLUE (in 8-gallon Cases)
PRICE IN MELBOURNE
„ SYDNEY (E. Rich & Co., Ltd.)
„ BRISBANE (E. Rich & Co., Ltd.)
„ HOBART (Wm. Crosby & Co.)
4/-
4/-
4/-
4/-
per
Gallon.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD
Mining Machinery, Steam Engines and Boilers,
As well as
HEAVE TINT STOCK
All Kinds of Engineers’ Fittings and Supplies
Wood Pulleys
Shafting:
Hangers
Plummer Blocks
Collars
Couplings
Drills
Reamers
Wrenches
Valves
Valves
Valves
Valves
Oster Stocks and Dies and Taps, Crane Hinged Pipe Vyces, Emery
Wheels and Grinders, all kinds of Lubricators, Starrett Fine
Mechanical Tools, etc., etc., etc.
write for Prices to 60 Clarence-st., Sydney. N.S.W.
CAPILLA
HAIR
TONIC
The Wonder of the Age
ALL CHEMISTS
THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALASIA
N. P. RECOH 8 CO.
Machinery Merchants,
Melbourne & Sydney.
HAVE IN STOCK—
Blake’s Steam Pumps.
Fay's Woodworking Machinery.
Mundy’s Hoisting Engines-
Empire Co.’s Laundry Machinery-
American “All Steel” Pulleys-
Harris ‘‘Champion” Lubricating Oils.
Mason Reducing Valves-
Ludlow Sluice Valves-
Korting’s Injectors and Ejectors-
Tanite Emery Wheels.
The‘Baplin’Hand Ice Machine
Ice produced by simply turning handle. A decanter
of water made ice cold in 3 minutes. No risk, no trouble.
Invaluable in the country, where ice cannot be bought.
The ‘Abbott* Filter
Stops all disease germs. Makes the foulest water pure
and wholesome. Easily cleaned. Erom 22s 6d.
Full Particulars on application to
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd.,
Sole Agents. 71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Trewhella Bros.
PATENT
LOG AND STUMP JACKS.
m
If you have Stumps, Roots, Stones, or Logs to clear, or
Threshers or Machinery to move, try these Jacks. They
are used by thousands throughout Australasia, and the
sales are rapidly increasing, which proves their value.
You can obtain them from the ironmonger with whom
you deal, or I will supply you direct.
The Melbourne and Sydney Prices are—
Lift, Tons Pmc*
Double Purchase Jack 4
.. 6
»
II
65/-
75/-
Single
21 40/■
II II *2
With Patent LOWERING GEAR, 5/- extra.
Full Information and Trade Discounts from
W. TREWHELLA, Trentham, Victoria,
ob H. HINDS, 17 Loftus St., Sydney.


PIKE BROTHERS
BROS
PIKE
Th; Cai tain i
Business Neelige.
Summer
Business
Neglige Shirts
SPECIALITIES:
The “CAPTAIN ” fine
White, Soft Oxford—
-5/6
or 31/6 half-dozen.
“REGENT” Superfine
Zephyr.
Choicest Materials Pro-
curable. Neat Stripes,
Checks, etc.
6/6
or 37/6 half-dozen.
•< CARLTON ” do. do.
6/6
or 37/6 half-dozen.
*4 =
Hw
D.B.
Suitable
Summer
Clothing.
Genuine Hand-Finished.
Indian Twill Flax
Coat and Trousers—
-17/6
Indian Bengal Tweed
Grey in Color.
Coat and Trousers—
-21/-
Finest Indian Assam
Silk.
Coat and Trousers—
-42/-
Coats in Single, Double-
Breasted and Norfolk
Shape.
Reliable
Footwear
BY
Renowned
American
Manufacturers.
SPECIAL MAKES TO
AVOID CORNS.
Tan and Black,
Calf and Kid.
17s. 6d.
21s. Od.
225. 6d.
255. Od.
83 to 91 Queen Street, Brisbane.
CHRISTMAS CAKES
Celebrated Canterbury Cakes
TEA MEETING CAKE
FAMILY CAKE and PICNIC CAKE
ORNAMENTAL TINS BISCUITS
Orer 2700 Hydro-Kxtraot ors Sold and at work
W W ilHUffl w UMA I will will I'l ' ■ 111 3V3f
MEDICAL CERTIFICATE.
“ Ararat (Victoria), 25th Aug-., 1902.
“ During the past few years Eczema has become of very
frequent occurrence, especially in children. In the treat-
ment of this troublesome affection the usual medicinal
remedies failed in many cases to give belief, and I was very
pleased to have a new preparation, named ‘ Oleac,’ put into
my hands for trial. I can recall to my mind three cases of
children in which the usual remedies had no beneficial
effect, and the application of ‘ Oleac ’ according to the
printed directions removed all the irritation of the skin.
I have also heard of many adults using the ‘ Oleac ’ with
great benefit.—JAMES SMEAL, Surgeon, &c., Ararat ”
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK :
By Sixty Bulletin writers. Oloth, 300 pages ;
prioe, 4s. 6d. ; postage, 6d.
* SOLE DISTRIBUTING AGENTS I
EDWARDS, DUNLOP & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
PIONEER
LEATHER!
BELTING'
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
PRICES PER FOOT OF SINGLE AND DOUBLE
BELTING :
2 2J 3 3J 4 5 6 8 10 12 inch.
-17 -19 -im 1/- 1/2 1/6 1/11 2 8 3/4 4/-
1/2 1/4 1/7 1/10 2/2 2/11 3/5 4/5 5/7 6/9
Agents in every State.
Made by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
m
»
HD
ay
Hi
7m
m
B
IN order to introduce our Gold Wire Jewellery
to the Australian public we have decided to
offer one of the greatest bargains ever seen in the
jewellery trade — viz., the above handsome Brooch
(any name or three initials) made of extra quality
9ct. gold-filled wire, with heart pendant ; guaran-
teed the same quality as the brooch advertised,
complete. Sent post-free on receipt of or
M.O. for ss. in round wire or sq. twisted wire, 15ct
goid, filled, Bs. 6d. Illustrated catalogues sent free.
SIMS and ELRICK, Manufacturing Jewellers.
Our only address—
COLE’S BOOK ARCADE MELBOURNE. AUSTRALIA
ARE
SOLE AGENTS FOR
BROADBENT’S
DIRECT
STEAM DRIVEN
“HERVEY’S RACKAROCK”
17 Years’ Unbroken Record as a Standard Australian Exp'osive. Cor. CLARENCE & KING STS., SYDNEY
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831.
Mining and Dredging Plants. Engines, Boilers, &c.
Fowler Traction Engines.
wm
Desiccating Plants.
Hopper Waggons, &c.
m
PROOF
USE
Head Office:
10 BUCH ST., SYDNEY
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS.
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
mHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
-*- Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels Citv
i-hour by tram. Billiards, etc. '
—
offiLSSoyouS® 1 BOOK
Abbbbss. —L.D.1., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
BALSAM OF HOREHOUND
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
ARNOLD’S BALSAM
BALSAM
ARNOLD’S BALSAM
ARNOLD’S BALSAM
For Coughs and Colds.
Every Dose Effective.
Will Cure when Others Fail.
For Pain in the Side.
Best for Influenza.
In Bronchitis and Loss of Voice.
Whooping Cough and Croup.
For Children, Safe and Sure
PHOTOS
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S
Gentlemen’s High-Class
—Complete Outfitters.
Stylish Teral Hats.
LATEST SHAPES AND COLORS.
8/6 10/6 12/6 13/6.
Best White Drill Helmets-
-12/6 13/6 15/-
Fashionable Pamama, Brazilian and
Tuscan Straws continually arriving.
SW“Write for New ‘'Commonwealth”
Catalogue B, fully Illustrated, and
Samples.
Townsville andJLondon.
Ye Old English Plum Pudding
MINCE HEAT
Presentation Cakes (Ornamented)
In Beautiful Cardboard Boxes
Seeded Mildura Raisins
CHRISTMAS CHEER.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° ’B5 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
HYDRO-EXTRACTORS
These machines have been successfully introduced throughout the Australasian colonies for Drying Wool, Laundried Goods, Sugar
bait, Chemicals, the Production of Meat Extract, etc. All sizes in stock or arriving. SPARE PARTS STOCKED. Send foi
■testimonials and full particulars.
HOBART.
Radley's Orient hotel.
DUNEDIN. N.Z
CITY HOTEL
(First Grade).
J. A. TURNER • - Proprietor.
ORNAMENTAL hair.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers & Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia.
CRAIG & AITKE 2XT,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 George Street, Sydney.
Models from Life, Beautiful Stereo-
scopies, etc. List with 100 Minia-
ture and 3 Cabinet size photos.,
55., P. 0.0. or stamps.
S RECKNACEL NACHF, Munich, 1 Brieffach, Germany.
■WHEN buying a KEROSENE GAS STOVE insist
'' on getting a noiseless
JUPITER
The Very Latest
Invention.
Burns Noiselessly,
Without Smell
or Smoke,
Perfectly Safe.
Obtained First Prize
wherever exhibited.
Stocked by all Leading Hardware Merchants and
Storekeepers.
Sole Agents for Australasia —
Melson and Robertson,
17 LOFTUS ST., SYDNEY.


VICTORIAN m& RAILWAYS.
SUMMER EXCURSIONS
Combined Rail and Coach Tickets.
Issued from 15th November, 1902, to 30th April, 1903 ; available for return for three months. The journey cannot be broken on these tickets.
particulars and fares see posters at stations.
For
Rail to—Bayswater
Healesville
Yarra Junction
Warburton
Alexandra Road
Coach thence to
?>
5)
5>
» 1
’ 5 5
n 5
—Forrest Road
Sassafras
The Hermitage
Narbethong
St. Fillian’s
Marysville
Gilderoy
Upper Yarra
Buxton
Marysville
Jamieson
Bairnsdale
55
Dean’s Marsh
Timboon
Outtrim
Coach thence to-
-5) 55
5) 33
33 33
33 3 3
33 3 3
3 3 33
33 3 3
33 3 3
33 33
—Bousteads
Omeo
Brutlien
Omeo
Buchan
Lome
Port Campbell
Princetown
Peterborough
Inverloch
Passengers travelling by Coach on Return Tickets, and purchasing Friday and Saturday to Monday Holiday Excursion Tickets to Melbourne, may
have their Holiday Excursion Tickets endorsed as available for three months by the stationmaster issuing the tickets, who will require to first sight the
Coach Return Ticket held by the passenger.
CHEAP COMBINED RAIL and COACH TICKETS will be issued as under from 15th November, 1902, to 30th April, 1903.
Seaside and Gippsland Lakes Excursions.
From 15th November, 1902, till 30th April, 1903, Seaside Excursion Tickets at Holiday Excursion Fares will be issued at the principal stations to Geelong, Queenscliff, Dean’s Marsh
Forrest, Timboon, Portland, Warrnambool, Port Fairy, Franlcston, Carrum, Hastings, Bittern, Mornington, Stony Point, Sale, Bairnsdale, Foster, Toora, Welshpool, Alberton, or Port
Albert, and combined railway and steamboat tickets to Gippsland Lakes. The tickets will be available for return for three months, and the journey may be broken at Melbourne for three
days going and returning. Purchasers of seaside tickets to Queenscliff or to Warrnambool and Port Fairy (via Pensliurst) and Port Fairy (via Terang), may make Drysdale, or Marcus
Hill or Koroit respectively their destination instead. For full particulars see posters at all stations.
Mountainous Districts Excursion Tickets.
Issued From 15th November, 1902, To 30th April, 1903. Return Tickets will be issued at Melbourne to stations available for three months from date of issue.
Holders of Bright tickets may terminate their journey at, or commence the return journey from, any station Myrtleford to Bright inclusive.
Melbourne to Beechworth and Bright tickets are available for return from Bairnsdale. Toongabbie tickets are available for return from Traralgon, latter
station to stamp tickets. These tickets will also be issued daily, as under, available for return within three months :
To BEECHWOOD. To BRIGHT.
Ist Return.
68s. Id.
725. 4d.
85s. Od.
2nd Return.
455. sd.
48s. Od.
565. lOd.
Ist Return.
725. lid.
775. 2d.
89s. lOd.
Warrnambool
Port Fairy
Portland
Tickets will be available for three months. The journey cannot be broken on any of these tickets except on those }
Fairy, and Portland, holders of which may break their journey at Melbourne (but not elsewhere) for three days both going or returning, and before the
return journey is commenced they must be presented at the Booking Office to be stamped, and no tickets will be recognised unless they have been first so
stamped.
Friday to Monday Excursions.
2nd Return.
48s. Bd.
51s. sd.
60s. 3d.
issued at Warrnambool, Port
Holiday Excursion Tickets are issued by last trains on Fridays and by all trains on Saturdays, available for return till the following Monday, to
and from all stations outside a radius of 9 miles of each other, provided the return journey can be completed within the time for which the ticket is available.
These tickets are also to be issued by the following trains from Melbourne on Fridays:—
Bendigo Line ... ... ... 4.50 p.m. Seymour Line ... ... ... 5.15 p.m.
Ballarat ... ... ... 4.40 p.m. Bairnsdale Line ... ... ... 4.30 p.m.
Warrnambool and Queenscliff Lines 4.15 p.m. Frankston and Mornington Line 5.30 p.m.
And by the following trains to Melbourne on Fridays : —Kyneton, 5.28 p.m. ; Geelong, 5.55 p.m.; Warragul, 4 p.m. ; Mornington, 5.30 p.m.; Frankston, 6.13.
Combined Rail and Steamer Tickets.
MELBOURNE and QUEENSCLIFF . —During the summer months combined Rail and Boat First Class Return Tickets between Melbourne and
Queenscliff are issued in connection with the P.S.S. “ Hygeia ” and “Ozone” at 7s. 6d. each. Melbourne and Queenscliff issue these tickets on Fridays
and Saturdays and Messrs. Huddart Parker and Co. and the Bay Excursion Company on Saturdays and Sundays. Tickets are available for return till
the following Monday. Passengers going by rail return by steamer, and vice versa. The journey cannot be broken.
MELBOURNE and MORNINGTON. —During the summer months combined Rail and Boat First Class Return Tickets are issued in connection with
the pleasure steamers “Hygeia ” and “Ozone” at 6s. 6d. each. The tickets are issued at Prince’s Bridge and Mornington on Fridays and Saturdays, and
by Messrs. Huddart, Parker and Co. and the Bay Excursion Company on Saturdays and Sundays. They are available for return till the following
Monday. Passengers going by rail return by steamer and vice versa. The journey cannot be broken.
COWES and SAN REMO ♦ —Combined Rail and Steamer Tickets to Cowes and San Remo, via Stony Point, are issued at Melbourne, Geelong
Ballarat and Bendigo at the following fares :
Beaumaris Tramway—Combined Excursion Tickets.
SANDRINGHAM, BEAUMARIS, and CHELTENHAM—Round Trip * —On dates specially advertised, Spencer Street, Flinders Street, Princes Bridge,
Richmond, South Yarra, Prahran, Windsor, Balaclava, Elsternwick, North Brighton, Middle Brighton, Brighton Beach, Hawksburn, Toorak, Malvern,
Armadale, and Caulfield stations issue Special Circular Tickets for the round ..trip by train and tram at Is. Bd. each first, class, and Is. 6d. each second
class (tram proportion Bd.). Those issued on Saturdays and Sundays are available for return till the following Monday.
BLACK ROCK ♦ —On dates specially advertised Spencer Street, Flinders Street, Richmond, South Yarra, and Prahran issue first and second class
Special Return Tickets to Black Rock, by rail via Sandringham, thence by the Beaumaris Tramway, at Is. 4d. first class and Is. Id. second class. Similar
tickets are also issued at stations on the other suburban lines (north and south) within ten miles of Melbourne, at Is. lOd. first class, and Is. 4d. second
class (tram proportion 4d.) Those issued on Saturdays and Sundays are available for return till the following Monday.
BEAUMARIS . —On dates specially advertised, stations on the Suburban line (north and south) within ten miles of Melbourne issue first and second
class Special Return Tickets to Beaumaris, by rail via Sandringham, thence by the Beaumaris Tramway, at 2s. 2d. first class, and Is. Bd. second class (tram
proportion Bd.) Those issued on Saturdays and Sundays are available for return till the following Monday.
PICNIC EXCURSIONS . —Picnic parties of 30 and upwards may obtain the cheap “ Round trip ” tickets or to Black Rock or Beaumaris quoted above
on any day on making application to the Chief Traffic Manager, Melbourne, or to Mr. H. Milner, Secretary of the Beaumaris Tramway Company.
Written order to be obtained and presented at booking-office. Fares as above. Children under 16 years of age half-fare. Tickets available for day of
issue only. Railway journey not to be broken except at Melbourne on through tickets.


1
V
Cities
|l
fa
w
%0
k'te
i?OQ
ffi
OP
CJ
w
i}spxl
ftftS
/,
m
d&s£
IS
ddSBG
Q
(JR3ZB
c£o
□p.
a.@&3o
G?<#
la
aO
'C
fio&o
aw
as
©■ap
ok
<?PkO
m
m
89
m
%
k#BS^
1
1
r
Ll^k
x
£
£b
a
4,
yo
'PQ
//^
£
y
cJuV'
<tfs
<L
& ‘ :ik
ts®s
ye efC
P.O
u
%
0
ODDSao
?<3
232
&
py 1 V\l
x-PvaT/
<
S *# V JS
8 Brag *i; Sg
2
■nuiusnißi
n
ZZTW
w /
LU
Grand Prix
pARIS-1900
FORME" DROIT UTAH
STRAIGHT FRONT


Banking, Public Companies, See.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
3\r.s,-w,
f|jontdepieteD>|.Co.,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
174. CASTLEREAGH ST. f 74
' SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
"—THE—.
Colonial Mutual Life
assurance society limited,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices • ■ 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. O. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Millbr.
Accumulated Funds, £2,595,870.
Policies issued 88,299—assuring £26,826,380.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,767,115.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses —eauitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
The Bank of florth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... ... ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
M*x> ... £350.000
Royal Bank of Queensland
J T. TTtfTTED. “
LIMITED L
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. •• ..£451,307
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 181,809
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 56,000
£689,166
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE : 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Queensland Smelting (Jompy.
** (LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
•OUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
-D Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street. Melbourne.
rHE SAVINGS BANK IN VICTORIA
HAS MONEY TO LEND
,t FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £15,000, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties,
and £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-GeneraL
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. I>td. of liondon.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
■Directors —Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M. L.O. (Gibbs,
Bright & Oo.), Hon. John See, Lt.-Gol. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M‘Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar. J. J.ALLEN, General Manager for Australia,
131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Sauk of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Equitable Building's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 600,000
Total Capital
£2,500,000
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) £9576 13 4
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
rHLOROPYNE.
Oaution.— Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARBJHEA, &c., bears oa
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS o!
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, 1 should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number o( simple ailments forms
its best recommendation. ’
SUpplng.
3NT. X>. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OP
Twin Screw Steamers.
BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
yiDraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
. a.»»i ii-owcn oucniuer.
Leaving MELBOURNE Wednesday after Sydney.
Interstate First-Olass Return Tickets are now available
for Return by the Steamers of the P. and 0., Orient
Pacific, or M.M. Co.’s.
TO SINGAPORE,
Vla BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. TANGLIN, 7th JANUARY,
And Regularly Thereafter.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Exoellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London .
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London '.. .. £55 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. £3l 10s .. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £l2O.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
Huddart, parker & (Jo’s t' ne
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HO BAHT,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
A.3NT 33
LINE
via
San Francisco,
California.
FASTEST AND BEST
ROUTE
TO
ENGLAND,
Via America and Canada*
THE GREAT
/ OVERSEA 1
\ OVERLAND /
HIGHWAY
TO THE UNITED KINGDOM,
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, and AMERICA.
The NEWEST, LARGEST (6000 Tons each), FASTEST,
and ONLY TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS engaged in
the TRANS-PACIFIC PASSENGER SERVICE from
Australia and New Zealand.
Round the World itineraries compiled.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts. SYDNEY.
No. 56 ACETYLENE CAS Catalogue
is the MOST COMPLETE
and COMPREHENSIVE
ever issued.
Tells all about the Pest
ACETYLENE CAS GENER-
ATORS, LAMPS, and
everything in connection
with ACETYLENE.
Nearly 400 of our
Reliable Automatic
Acetylene Gas
Generators
in daily use.
Large Stocks of the
Best
Carbide
of Calcium
Quotations on application.
James martin & co.,
161 Clarence Street,
Nr. King-st., Sydney.
EVERY WOMAN
is interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new Vaginal Syringe.
Injection and Suction. The best,
safest and most convenient.
lt Cleanses Instantly.
If your druggist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated Book, sent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies. Endorsed by Physicians.
MARVEL CO., Times Building, N.Y.
Sole Australasian Agents—
The Marvel Co. of Australia,
(Box 623 G.P.0.) CAHDEN BUILDINGS,
418 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
"ALL-RED” ROUTE.
To Canada, United States & Europe.
Connecting at Vancouver with the
Canadian-Pacific Railway.
Affording an Excellence of Service not Obtainable
Elsewhere.
DELIGHTFUL VOYAGE ACROSS THE PACIFIC
OCEAN, CALLING AT FIJI & HAWAII.
Magnificent Rocky Mountain Scenery.
Unrivalled Rail Service.
The Best, the Safest, and Most Interesting Route.
SALOON to LONDON, £35 to £66.
NEXT SAILINGS—
DEC. 29, JAN. 26, FEB. 23.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
Medical.
ROSE’S CELEBRATED
Eye Lotion,
The Greatest Discovery of Modern Times
For All Eye Complaints.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers.
LADIES.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address— L.D.l.. 300 Collins St., Melbourne
>3
The VOLCANIC
DERATING
MACHINE
Important to Hotelkeepers
MAKE YOUR OWN
SODAWATER, LEMONADE, GINGER ALE, and
all other /Erated Drinks, with
The “Uolcanic”
{rated (Jjater (|)achine
The Waters are Pure, Bright and Sparkling, and
the cost of making them a mere trifle.
NO SKILLED LABOR REQUIRED.
A few reasons why the “ Volcanic ” Machine is superior to all others.
1. The Valve works automatically ; no other aerating machine of this class has an Automatic Valve.
2 The Water Cylinder holds lOgals., and has two perforated partitions inside, causing the sparkle so much
appreciated. Weight, 80lbs. Copper, thoroughly tinned inside and outside.
3. The gas tube holds 571bs. pure gas, being much larger than the tubes supplied with other plants.
4. The Turn-over Bottling Rack is made of the best metal. Thirty dozen per hour can he bottled with it.
5. The “ VOLCANIC ” Machine is the only one of its kind erected in the leading houses in Meloourne,
including—The Grand Hotel, Parer’s Crystal Cafe, Parer’s The Duke Cafe, Young and Jackson s, J.
Richardson’s Hotel, Bourke-st., Evans’ Covent Garden Cate, Lucas Cate, Town Hall Hotel, Sheehan s
New Treasury Hotel, Rubira’s Cafe, Victoria Coffee Palace, Hotel Metropole, Imperial, Lucas Bros.
(Confectioners), Bath’s Hotel, Union Club, Britannia, Australian, A.N.A., City Arms, etc., etc. Also
many others in the suburbs and the leading houses in the country.
Price, £3O, with all accessories.
Smaller Machine on same principle, £2O.
SPECIAL NOTICE.— The “ VOLCANIC ” Machine was the first of its kind introduced into Australasia.
It received the Gold Medal against all competitors at the Ballarat Exhibition.
Write for Pamphlets, containing Testimonials from people who have used the machines for years.
W. JAMES, Proprietor,
Office : 101 QUEEN ST.,
Depot: 130 CECIL ST.,
MELBOURNE.
SOUTH MELBOURNE.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian!
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhippingat Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Rockton,
Friday, December 12.
S.S. Wollowra,
Saturday, December 20.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oatrns
S.S. Warrego, Sat., Dec. 13.
-S.S. Rockton, Sat., Dec. 20.
S.S. Allinga, Friday, Dec. 26.
Best and Cheapest It onto to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A- U. S- N. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Maokay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Twice weekly, via Bris-
bane, Maryborough, and Bundaberg.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Brls
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
via MELBOURNE—Fortnightly.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are Interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and W. Australia all tiokets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO,, Ltd., Agents, Iff Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
D AND {N COMPANY’S
r “ ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B to M/7
Ditto Ditto Return, £66 to £ll5
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific,
Messageries Mari times and N.D.L. Steamers having room.
EDWARD TRELAWNY,
63 Pitt-street. Superintendent in Australia.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters ineett
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and 0.,
Orient Pacific and N.D.L. steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Office*
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
“E. ANP A.” LINE.
. . TO . .
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
The s steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger ;rade, and are fitted with EVERY CON-
VENIENCE FOR TROPICAL TRAVELLING.
Through bookings to points in Canada, United States
of America and Europe at special rates.
Doctor and Stewardess carried.
Lowest Fares and Freights.
For further information apply to
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.,
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
SMOKE
■ ■
4®
&
GBD
A
%
INSIST
on having this Brand
and no other.
Largest Depot:
231 CLAR€NC€ STRC€T,
SYDNEY.


Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
THCE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OP ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA. ’
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing Hoarseness Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure It is most com
forting in allaying irritation .in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop Consumntion has"
never been known fo where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning a dose is generally sufficient
never been known to exist where
Mid a Complete Cure is certain.
BEIWAR.E OF COUGHS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HE ARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
‘Mr. Hearne.—
“Dear Sir, —I enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
of London, England, from which you will glean that
your medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr to
colds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself what an immense success
it was.—Yours faithfully, .”
Extract from letter alluded to above
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure realty excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
much interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
off the empty bottle to find out if he could'get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS' TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HE ARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“Dergholm, Victoria.
Dear Sir, —I wish to add my testimony to the Won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and the cough wms so distressingly bad at nights
I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
advice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
.vours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“ Yours faithfully,
“JAMES ASTBURY.”
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidh successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed bv
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
fifty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
•* I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but lam sending for another bottle in case I should want it.—D. M‘DONALD Trinkev via
Quirindi, N.S.W.” ’
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydnev.”
“ My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad (o inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good, it having quickly cured us both.—R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford
Victoria.”
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletelj’ left me. —(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
“ I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.”
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
“My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers
Queen-street, Melbourne.” ’
“ 1 lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous.—F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—o. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria.”
“Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” ©
‘Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
“I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to evervbodv S
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” ©
“ I suffered from Chrome Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine
but I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of mv brief trial —JOHN c’
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S. W.”
“Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good ; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well —II HOOD
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.” ’
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from von have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness.—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough Victoria ”
“The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.—CHAS. WHYBROW Enoch's
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation
hundreds cured in their own
CIRCLE.
“ The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ins' for and singing the praises of ITearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ajfO, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Oollins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending' it to others.
We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most, valuable Bronchiiis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings cf hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.”
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
“ 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, Please send us 36
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
‘ THOMASON, CRATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.”
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir,—Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“ 1 am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUAKRILL,
“ Editor Geelong Advertiser.”
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.’’—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong 1 , Victoria.
branch depot office i jfo. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
XHEJ
SMELTING « REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
Works : DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA (56 Miles from Sydney). 1901, Limited.
V -V "V —HP—o»-v I n* H' —-V — V ——»- —*■ —»- —. — —...—*.—^
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores.
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay. Cyanide, Slags, and Jeweilers’ Sweep, etc.
Tor all Information regarding Hates, apply to the Manager, Head Office, Dapto;
or, A. E. RUDDER & CO., 40 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
...
HERR RASSMUSSEN
will guarantee to cure Nervous Weak=
ness, Blood Diseases, Piles, Rheuma=
tistn, Corpulency, Liver and Kidney
Troubles. He will send his Book Free.
All correspondence will be held
confidential.
BRISBANE: 309 Queen St.
MELBOURNE •• 150 Bourke St.
WEAK, NERVOUS MEN, WHY SUFFER
w
thousand su lfererTfromDEffiTY"TOO™MEMoltf, H \v¥AK“praE S ‘DE3PONDENCy k”™ cured so m«„y
is dearest to it—Vital Strength. HeW Rass.uuss.n will y’o.r.nSjthis „„SdfS *" d i«S !
give his skilled advice personally to all patrons of his remedies FIiEE OF CHARGE either in his offices or bv nost Vim, ■ 8 k l
communicate with him without delay, no matter where you live. Treatment by Post a Speciality” PampTlet sent Pree? 1 ’ bUt
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d., posted.
Blood and Skin Diseases
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, Stone in the Bladder
Impurities guaranteed to be removed and permanently cured by
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS- Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d. posted.
Anaemic Women
PIT 889 ’ Pale ’ Life . less > alld otherwise affected, should at
-ttAbbMUbbEJN. Jtiis lifelong experience is at their service, and his
once communicate with HERR
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS will cure them. Boxes, 6s; Courses, 235. 6d.
LIVER and KIDNEY TROUBLES cured at once by the ALFALINE LIVER and KIDNEY PILLS Boxes Is.
HiS -- ERS "ever fail ; 6 s. per box each.
The ALFALINE REMEDIES can only beobtained from ... PA j-u
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office- / George St., SvdneV
AND Ills BRANCHES as V
ADELAIDE: 15 Pult eaey St.
LIZ.: 91 Lambton Quay, Wellingto
W.A., PERTH: 481 Hay St.
KALGOORLIE: 111 Hanuan St.
FREMANTLE: 117 High St
BOULDER 01Ty : Piesse St.


BEFORE USE.
HOLLAND’S
EXTRAOJEtDINARY RESULTS ARISING FROM THE USE OF
AFTER USE.
Preparations for the Treatment
and Improvement
of the
HAIR.
Beautiful Hair
secured the admiration of men and women through all
ages. No picture having for its central figure tlie human
form could approach the ideal in loveliness without its
being crowned with a luxuriant head of hair. It has been
the theme of bards and the song of poets. So great was
my admiration for a beautiful head of hair that twenty
years ago I determined to give my whole life to its study.
During all that time its preservation and growth have
had niy most assiduous attention. Twenty years’ of
study of “ The Hair and Its Treatment ” have caused my
services to be sought after by people living in nearly
every part of the world, and my preparations are now
being used by doctors and the elite of society everywhere.
Ranigeview, CO Mary-street, Kew.
I have much pleasure in testifying to your very success-
ful treatment of my daughter’s hair. I began to despair
of her getting rid of the bald spots which she had for
many years. I spent over £lOO on it before I placed her
under your treatment. Thanking you for the kind in-
terest you have taken in her case, Mrs. SIMPSON.
FASASENE.
Mr. E. HOLLAND.
Dear Sir, —My daughter, aged twelve, lost her hair and
eyelashes some years ago. We had her under the treat-
ment of two doctors for over two years, and their treat-
ment was wholly ineffective. I communicated with you,
and you wrote telling me it was a parasitical disease that
was the cause of the trouble. We carried out your in-
structions and used your preparations, and the result has
been most satisfactory. Her hair and eyelashes have
grown splendidly. I am pleased to write you this for
your own sake, and thankful for my little girl’s sake, too.
—Yours very truly, W. J. JAOKA.
Jacka’s Coffee Palace, North-terrace, Adelaide, S.A.
NATUEALENE.
Dimboola, Victoria.
Dear Sir, —Please send me another bottle of Naturalene ;
have never had such wonderful stuff before. My hair is
its proper colour again. Will recommend it to my friends.
—Yours truly, MRS. F. S.
MARVELLOUS HAIR RESTORER.
This is a Splendid Preparation for Removing Scurf,
Promoting the Growth, and Giving Lustre to the Hair.
Every person desirous of preventing their hair from
falling off, and securing a luxuriant head of hair, should
use RESTORER.
Ladies should use it on their children, as it is perfectly
harmless, and will positively secure to them a good head
of 1 >'i i r.
PR CE, 35., 45., 55., 10s. 6d., 12s. fid. PER BOTTLE.
Witjj 9d. extra on Small and Is. 2d. on Large Bottles
for Postage.
Consult me on all
Diseases of the
Hair and Scalp.
¥
■
II
■
J
- i. vM,
PARASENE.
Kenmore West, via Nanango, Q.
Dear Sir, —I am writing these few lines as a testimonial
for your Parasene, and also to show you my appreciation
of your successful treatment for falling hair. I had tried
several other remedies for falling hair, but they had failed
to make it grow, but after using a few bottles of Parasene,
it'commenced to grow from round the edges of the bald
patch. I have recommended it to a gentleman over here
by the name of Baker, who promised to try it. His hair
was coming out in very much the same way as mine was.
I will try to encourage and recommend your treatment to
all I possibly can. Hoping you will have much success in
your business,—l remain, yours thankfully,
E. N. ROBAUTS.
Mr. E. HOLLAND.
Chicago, U.S.A.
Dear Sir, —Your treatment of my own hair was so suc-
cessful that I have recommended it to Mr. Davies, of the
Bank of Nova Scotia, Chicago, 111., U.S.A. Kindly send
him two bottles of Baldene.—Yours faithfully,
A. W. KIRKWOOD.
PARASENE.
Clunes, via Lismore, N.S.W.
Mr. E. HOLLAND.
Dear Sir, —I am sending you postal note for Gs., for
another bottle of your Parasene for my son’s head. The
hair came off in patches, and I have tried many cures
without avail; but the bottle I got from you has taken
effect, and already the hair is beginning to grow.—l
remain, yours faithfully,
J. 11. N.
PARASENE
is a Preparation specially prepared for destroying all Para-
sites, and for making Hair Grow on Bald Patches that are
the result of Parasitical Disease. For RESTORING EYE-
BROWS, BEARD, and MOUSTACHE.
PRICE, ss. PER BOTTLE, with Is. 2d. extra for postage.
NATURALENE
is the Best Preparation .yet discovered for
RESTORING GREY HAIR TO ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It acts naturally, quickly, and effectively. It contains
no lead, sulphur, or other injurious chemicals.
One lady says : —“ My hair looks to-day—after applying
your Naturalene a few times—as it did seventeen years
ago.”
PRICE, PER BOTTLE, ss. 6d. With Is. 2d. extra for
postage.
Don’t go bald or use Hair-Destroying Nostrums manu-
factured by BALD-HEADED QUACKS, but treat your
hair with one or more of these splendid preparations.
Consult me on all
Diseases of the
Hair and Scalp.
m
wmm n
£8
H
HOLLAND Hair Specialist,
® Jl jjg&Buseaamaa&Bam—m
193 Collins-st.,
Melbourne, Vic.
SURGEON LANGSTON
He that saves a fallen fellow creature is greater than the Hero that conquers a world.”
MARVELLOUS TRIUMPH OVER DISEASE!
HLR.C.S.
Eng.
The Expert SPECIALIST and recognised authority on
Chronic, Nervous, Shin and Blood Diseases.
CASES CONSIDERED INCURABLE are specially requested to call or write.
Ordinary Methods of Treatment fail to Cure. There are hundreds
of doctors and so-called institutions advertising specifics for general debility
whose so-called cures and pretensions are never realised by the patient.
French, Russian and even Indian doctors and their wonderful “cure-alls” are
constantly springing up, all ending in disappointment and useless
expenditure of money to the afflicted. Is it any wonder that sufferers become
both disgusted and discouraged ?
Diseases of the Nervous System can only be cured by a specialist
whose whole professional life has been devoted to the treatment of such diseases,
therefore to Surgeon Langston, and to Surgeon Langston alone, the invalid
and nervous sufferer can look with full and positive assurance of speedy
restoration. Surgeon Langston does not publish names of patients or their
diseases, hut cures them.
ARE YOU A SANDOW?
Are you quite sure of it ? Is every organ in perfect working condition
Can you perform your duties with ease and satisfaction ? In these days of
worry and excitement, men are steadily deteriorating, and one of the first
symptoms of such a condition is failing power, lack of tone, vigor, etc.
Surgeon Langston wishes it understood that his treatment is not a
patent medicine. NOTE THIS. —The sceptical are convinced, sufferers
from all diseases are being cured, and Surgeon Langston’s mode of treatment
is a boon to thousands.
Avoid unskilled pretenders, flaming advertisements and specious cure-alls.
Vigor an I strength for all who desire it. Old Surgeon Langston,
Member Royal College of Surgeons, England, located in Melbourne since 1880,
has so perfected his method of treatment that it can almost be said there are
no hopeless or incurable cases.
Be the equal of your fellow-man. If you are a sufferer from any
nervous, chronic Blood or Skin diseases, or interested in the subject of
Neurasthenia and associated evils, write at once for book of information, blank
forms, &c., and have the old doctor diagnose your case.
SEEK THE TRUTH, IT COSTS NOTHING.
Fours for Health . . •
W. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S.
** A 80HN PHYSICIAN.”
The greatest and most Successful
Practitioner in the world.
His mode of treatment is
unfolded in his. last work
(nearly 100 Pages). Price,
posted, sealed, £l, includ-
ing one month s medicine
for any disease.
SURGEON LANGSTON’S name is a
sufficient guarantee of a PERFECT
CURE of every case.
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., ENG.,
Registered in
England and
Australia,
And permanently
located at . . .
Corner Russell & Collins Sts., flelb.
SURGEON LANGSTON is the Only Qualified Medical Practitioner practising as a Specialist
who has held Government Appointments.
Cor Russell and Collins Streets,
MELBOURNE
Man’s Main Maladies Mastered. A grain of gold is worth more
than a pound of brass, likewise the trained and scientific specialist is worth
more in the treatment of diseases than a dozen ordinary doctors who
pretend to cure all the ills that afflict the human body. To these male maladies
alone I have earnestly devoted over 40 years of my life. Do not despair, even
if in the last stages. Let me show you medical science and business honor still
exist and go hand in hand.
No mistakes here, and no failures. In seeking treatment the following
qualifications should be taken into consideration : — Ability, experience,
skill, and an established reputation for RELIABILITY, all of which are
possessed by Sorgeon Langston, and are necessary for the success and satisfac-
tory treatment of the diseases wiiich he makes his speciality.
Among the bodily evils that the frail system of man is heir to there
are some so interwoven with painful associations that add mental misery to the
anguish of the frame, that many delicate minds resort to concealment
rather than own the cause of their affliction, and so fall into the grave before
their time. This is an evil which calls for the most energetic action of charitable
spirits to effect its eradication. The science of medicine has mastered
nearly all the evils that flesh is heir to, and, let men suffer how they will, there
is hardly any ramification of disease that may not be relieved at least, if not
entirely eradicated, by a timely appeal to those whose lives are spent in the
study of healing. The consequence of concealment, or want of the necessary
information, entails blind desperation, despair, and death upon many,
while yet merciful Omnipotence has given us the entire power to care.
It is, then, the duty of all whom education has endowed with skill to promulgate
the knowledge of their curative power among the unfortuate, and manifest
themselves, against all obstacles, as men who can emancipate their fellow
creatures from torture.
Read what former sufferers have to say, and remember that I positively
guarantee to cure all forms of Debility, Nerve Disorders, Atrophy, Nervousness,
Confusion of Ideas, Langor, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism, Kidney and Bladder
Complaints, Varicocele, Blood and Skin Diseases, &c.
My record for cures, as my case books will prove, is unparalleled m
Australia, and should you require my assistance, write me freely.
I try to feel as if I had a personal acquaintance with every correspondent,
and treat him as a valued friend. I observe tjie utmost secrecy with my
patients, and destroy all letters or return them to the sender.


We AH Use It
Keep Medicine on Hand. Don’t Wait till Sickness Comes.
Treat the Disease Early and Cure Promptly. Keep Well.
Mr. Wm, Allen, Police Constable of North Carlton, Victoria, sends a photo-
graph. of his family and says:
“For many years we have never been without Ayer’s Sarsaparilla in the
house. When any of us are feeling poorly, just a few doses will make us all
right. My wife says it is a grand medicine for children, especially when they
are growing fast. She finds it of great benefit, herself, when she gets tired
and worn out from overwork. The same
medicine cured me once of a severe
liver complaint, pain through the kid-
neys, and impure blood.”
sg,
1
M
Mr. Allen should certainly be proud of his family. And he shows good
Judgment in keeping Ayer’s Sarsaparilla always in the house. He knows it
gives. bright ©yes to the children, makes them have a clear and smooth skin,
brings good color to the cheeks and lips, and gives them the hearty appetite so
necessary to a substantial growth and development.
Don’t make the mistake of experimenting with some other Sarsaparilla.
All other Sarsaparillas are sold because they are said to be like Ayer’s.
AYER’S | arsaparilla
The Greatest Family Medicine the World Has Ever Known
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER,
I FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION,
DIZZINESS.
©ALLOW SKIN.
There’s SECURITY In
V*ART
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
i |« - ■ Small Pi,, ‘ Small Dose. Small Prlct;
TOUCH*. LIVEF*
B® Sure they are CARTEi
I
The Universal Remedy for Acidity oi the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Fejnales,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
FjMEFORDS
rAGNESIA,
g^NGTo^,
IRISH MO
FOR
The besf remedy-
INFLUENZA, *
COUGHS,
CP LOS,
BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA
and see that you qet it v
P
&
A BINGLE BOX OF
iEECHAM’S pills
CAPJ cure and chase away more ills
than you’re aware of.
To Remember to keep a box by you, and
To Remember to take a dose of the Pills
at the proper time is the
OF HEALTH
They Ensure
A CLEAR HEAD,
PURE BLOOD,
A HEALTHY LIVER,
A SOUND STOHACH,
And* thbkefoke as a Natural Consequence
THEY PREVENT AND CURE
NERVOUSNESS
INDIGESTION
BILIOUSNESS
CONSTIPATION
SICK-HEADACHE
ANAEMIA
FLATULENCY
DEPRESSION
BACK-ACHE
GRAVEL
SKIN ERUPTIONS
INSOMNIA
THE GREATEST TREASURE in the BEDROOM is a box of
■
a «
B
HOTEL, YOU ENJOY YOUR
George and Market Sts.,
SYDNEY.
APARTMENTS:
BEDROOM (single), 3s. per DAY.
BEDROOM (double), 6s. per DAY.
Single Room, with Full Board, Bs. per
day, or d£2 2s. per week.
TERMS. — The convenient
system of paying- for the
room on arrival and
meals as they are had.
When you come to Roberts’ Hotel
Dining Rooms; and you not only
enjoy it, but it does you good as
well. There is always a large and
tempting variety of excellent food on
our menu, and on Fridays there is a
special fish luncheon for those who
want it in addition to the ordinary.
Tiie luncheon is ready at twelve
o’clock sharp—from Is.—and there
is first-class attendance. Dinner and
tea from 5.30 to 7.3 o—from Is.
upwards. Silver grill at work.
9
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
ledicmee (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the Bast
THE EsjOWN-SEOUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
M.D., C.M., Xi.8..C.F.E., LB.C.S.E.,
L.F.F.S.G., JVM., etc..
Registered by the Medical Boards of Greab
Britain, Victoria, New South Wales,
etc.,
Hay be CONSULTED DAILY
151 ELIZABETH STREET (Hyde Park), SYDNEY
(igbILEY HOUSE) 7
Dr. MARTIN, during his recent European Tour visiter! h,,. T , n i- TT ,
and EUROPE, and has now at his OONSULTI>SS Hi ° f GREAT BRITAIN
APPLIANCES, BATHS etc and all the most re . r• . 1 the latest improvements m ELECTRIC
LUNG, HEART, SKIN, and all CHRONIC ‘DlSlUsfeTm° methods °* treatment for all NERVOUS,
SEQUARD. KRAFTT.EBING ,TkS inc,u<,S "-' the BROWN -
TORY and CHRONIC COfIPLAINTS in o,#» t T S EATnENT for aII ACUTE INFLAMMA-
-14 y ears ’ Australia., practice, thus ensuring all Patiente *° SUeCeSSful durin S his
diagnosis, together with prompt and effectual treatment. * them3elves fco hm care an accurate
*>• ,***«
the laSt 15 a hy any other Special ™ ***** *****
Moderate Charges. Cures
, Ptt tUreS '


Model
■
■''' v '* ..rs n r~\T\ ri rp fTT\ n
r-A r\ I n\\// c o ).i /
-.■~ . ' . \\ | \ | Ih\\v II / I
\ \! V- " u-\\ / r 1 pv \ I I-
V » ‘I \ \ I I \ \ I ®— =-
' (\Cv \ w w— 1 —„
“
• *
• . . r " •: *- -v '
/ .-
:
\
/s
> /\
<<?
\/ ;>
V.• ' 1 .: - ■
.. cfH
i \ ,•
*' !■ nVf '-V ' ‘ . d : ,JP
siffsiiis
ft
> r/1
-'•u x Avi s*f
flttSvy* V
*****
*®*a
a®
?'V-1- >
I'A w, :
pf
,iS&
K f ■
*■»*%! *
, I '
'
r!' iyWF/
-•• ■
IX?
■i^r
ffT I f ! i J t V i ! ! I/.
#*i * «• f|»^
I ibn "
, ~V
imri rj
L iL
I*#
assr I
nwtteas
• <
rriTm
r? ErJ‘3 &1
fSH!
. i
: i
m
m
jfA
’
*
P 5
•T I fe|
in
fi-ftf!
r ‘> 4 f f ij?v- r * r *s IF >;; ; ip : m a
w arrsr* fer BiiiwiMMfl. pmh fr~ f W**'' f r-*—-
-v ’ .... \;A L;d
$ M
.* r‘-
- -■
-••
fi 'iA»:
-- J- ..
y*r
l k*i V
gSgBg^SESaSS
BREWERS
AND
BOTTLERS
OF
ALE
STOUT
ENGLISH
ALE
SELECT
STOCK
ALE
AND .
LAGER.
TELEPHONE :
No. 206 Central
No. 162 Paddington
s of Wines » Spirits in Stoek
•
E.RESCH
AGENT FOR
Watsoij’s
WljiSkicS
Sazcrac
Brapdies
J6bil?e
Scb^PPS
Bols’ (Sips
Bitters
LiqCieOrS
Hcijry 6o(ikt
Cbanjpagoe.
i
