

McEWAISTS ALE. GAELIC WHISKY. Reid’s London Draught Stout
Absolutely
Pure,
Cocos,
u The Standard
of
[Highest Purity-”
The Lancet .
R. a. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent; Street, Sydney,
—FOK—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
McLAREN’S Compound
fraction Steam Engine.
MKDICAL CERTIFICATE.
“ Ararat (Victoria), 25th Aug’., 1902.
“ During- the past few years Eczema has become of very
frequent occurrence, especially in children. In the treat-
ment of this troublesome affection the usual medicinal
remedies failed in many cases to give relief, and I was very
pleased to have a new preparation, named ‘ Oleac,’ put into
my hands for trial. I can recal-l to my mind three cases of
children in which the usual remedies had no beneficial
effect, and the application of ‘ Oleac ’ according to the
printed directions removed all the irritation of the skin.
I have also heard of many adults using the ‘ Oleac ’ with
great benefit.—JAMES SMEAL, Surgeon, &c., Ararat”
THEBULLETSN STORY BOOK :
By Sixty Bulletin writers. Cloth, 300 pages ;
price, 4s. 6d, ; postage, 6d.
SOLE DISTRIBUTING AGENTS
EDWARDS, DUNLOP & Go., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° 85 Plt t street, SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for >l. & H. MCLAREN, Leeds, England, Makers of Steam Ploughing Tackle, Traction Engines for Haulage, General and Special Work.
We Stock and have to arrive McLaren’s Compound Traction Engines; HUSTON’S Portable Horizontal and Vertical Stoam Engines;
BROADBENT’S Hydro Extractors; KIRCHNER’S Saw Mill and Wood-Working Machinery.
COMPOUND TRACTION STEAM ENGINES—*
A 3 NCI AS SIS QNIM V 33N3Hin3 -*<>o aAiso.dxa ire!|B-*lsru p-tepums « «b pjooaa uano.tquji s-ikoa Zl
« MOOUVMOVU S<A3AU3H »
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831.
WHISKY.
bcobsaht.
Radley s Orient jjotel.
DUNEDIN, IM.Z.
CITY HOTEL
(First Grade).
J. A. TURNER - - Proprietor.
ASSISTS
DIGESTION!
SHOULD
| BE j
ICED
PENFOLD’S WINES.
Grand Champion Prize of Australia at Melbourne, August 22, 1902.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
PRICES PER FOOT OF SINGLE AND DOUBLE
BELTING :
2 c l\ 3 3J 4 5 6 8 10 12 inch.
-/? ~/9 -/10£ 1/- 1/2 1/6 1/11 2 8 3/4 4/~
1/2 1/4 3/7 1/10 2/2 211 3/5 4/5 5/7 6/9
Agents in every State.
Made by
J. G. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswau - Lamp.
inUHiiiJiHHin
!!!!!!!
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THS WM l m
United Electric Light
C 0.., Ltd.
Australasian Branch : 16 Carrington-street,
; WYinYARD SQUARS, bYDNEV.
Q’nsland Depot—Central Building, l?clvvard-st., Brisbane
Mining and Dredging Plants. Engines, Boilers, &c
Fowler Traction Engines.
Desiccating Plants.
Hopper Waggons, &c.
m
PROOF
gA/EV
A3NQAS ‘MS HDHO 01
:wiffO V V3 H
BRYANT & MAY’S WAX VESTAS
... PATENT SAFETY MATCHES
Full Size, Full Count, The Very Best.
See that the name Bryant & May
is on Every Box.
A NICE PRESENT.
The New Combination PIN-
CUSHION, THIMBLE & REEL
HOLDER, nickel plated, plush
top. Clamps on to any table
by means of a spring-. Price,
only 25.; post free.
Star Novelty Company,
229*231 Collins-st.,
Melbourne.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS- TOBINS.
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
. ST. HILDA.
Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
iseach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. Oity,
i-hour by tram. .Billiards, etc.
WHEN buying a KEROSENE GAS STOVE insist
on getting a noiseless
JUPITER
The Very Latest
Invention.
Burns Noiselessly,
Without Smell
or Smoke,
Perfectly Safe.
Obtained First Prize
wherever exhibited.
Stocked by all Leading Hardware Merchants aad
Storekeepers.
Sole Agents for Australasia —
Melson and Robertson,
17 LOFTUS ST.
The Bulletin
Vol. 23—No. 1188.1
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspapsr.
[Saturday, November 22, 1002.


THE LATEST BOOKS BY THIS WEEK’S MAIL.
Geo. Robertson & Go. Prop. Ltd.
Bennett, Anna of the Five Towns, 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Hobbes, Love and the Soul Hunters, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Kennedy, Sport in he Navy, 2s 6d &3s 6d, p. 6d.
Fowler (E. Thorneycroft), Fuel of Fire, 2s 6d <fc 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Praed, My Australian Girlhood, 2s fid & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Morgan, Aid to Assaying, 2s & 2s 6d, p. 3d.
Carr, Practitioner’s Guide, 255, p. Is 6d.
Silberrad, Mark Wyngate, 2s 6d &3s (3d, postage 6d.
Chambers (R. W.), The Maid at Arms, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Junor (Charles), Richard Brice, Adventurer, 2s 6d &
3s 6d, p. 6d. Kipling, Just So Stories, 6s, p. 6d.
Rita, The Lie Circumspect, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Mack (Louise), An Australian Girl in London, 2s 6d &
3s 6d, p. 6d. Gerard, The Blood Tax, 2s 6d &3a 6d, p. 6d
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King Sfc.) & at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane & London
A HANDY MANUAL OF POLITICS.
“A Policy for the Commonwealth/*
By Jambs Edmond.
Should be read by every Australian voter:
Enfranchised Women should study it.
Price, Sixpence. Post free from The Bulletin
office, Sevenpence.
The Bulletin publications.
Forwarded to any address in return for postal
notes, stamps, or P. 0.0. for prices stated.
Send Id. stomp for. The Bulletin Book Ciboulah,
I/O. V.
Fair Girls and Gray Horses, with Other
Verses:
By Will H. Ogilvie. New Issue. Blue
cloth, blue edges, with portrait; price, 55.;
postage, sd. *** A charming presentation
volume.
The Ways of Many Waters:
By E. J. Brady. Buckram, gilt top; price,
55. ; postage, 3d. *** Australia’s best book
of sea and sailor verse.
Maoriland and Other Verses:
By Arthur H. Adams. Buckram, gilt
top ; price, ss. ; postage, 3d. *** The best
book of Maoriland verse yet published.
On Our Selection:
By A. H. Davis (“Steele Rudd”). New
Issue. With about eighty illustrations by
Mahony, Lambert, Vincent, Leist, Fisher
and Fullwood; 65.; postage, Bd. %* “ The
jolliest book yet printed in Australia.”
A Bose of Regret:
Verses by James Hebblethwaite ; being
No. II of The Bulletin Booklets.
Enveloped, Is. 6d. ; postage, Id.
The Circling Hearths:
By Roderic Quinn. No. 11l of' The
Bulletin Booklets. Enveloped, Is. 6d.;
postage. Id.
Dreams in Flower:
By Louise Mack. No. IV of The Bulle-
tin Booklets. Enveloped, 2s. 6d. ;
postage, 2d.
Castro’s Last Sacrament and Other
Stories:
By Albert Dorrtngton (“ Alba Dorion”).
A handsome volume of 350 pages, bound in
cloth, decorated; prioe 4s. 6d. ; postage, 7d.
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300
pages; price, 4s. 6d.; postage, 6d.
The Bulletin Reciter:
By Eighty Bulletin Bards. With illus-
trations by “Hop,” N. Lindsay, A. J.
Fischer, F. Leist, D. H. Souter, and H,
McCrae. In handsome cloth, decorated.;,
price, ss. ; postage, 4d.
Works by Francis Adams:
(Publishers’ Remainders, offered as Second-Hand.)
Poetical Works, complete edition, printed
in Brisbane by Muir & Moreom. Paper
covers; 4to, Only a few copies remain.
Price, ss. ; postage, 4d.
Australian Essays, printed in Melbourne
by Wm. Inglis & Co. Paper covers, Bvo.
Only a few copies remain. Price, 2s. 6d. ;
postage, 3d.
Songs of the Army of the Night, printed
in Sydney. Boards, Bvo. Only a few copies
remain. Price, 2s. 6d. ; postage, 3d.
THE BULLETIN BOOKS.
Sole Distributing Agents :
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
Special Wholesale Agents :
New South Wale* .. Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd.
Queensland .. .. Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd
Victoria George Robertson Proprietary.
Tasmania George Robertson Proprietary.
South Australia .. E. S. Wigg & Son.
Westralia .. .. E. S. Wiqg & Son.
Auckland and district Wildman, Lyell, & Arby.
Others to be appointed.
Sold by All Leading Booksellers.
The Bulletin Newspaper Go., Ltd.,
214 Gborge-st., Sydney, Australia
Liruas, tb.4 THROA-X, theVOICE.
- THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs ! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
A. The Larynx, or organ of
voioe.
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
C- The Bronchiaf Tubes of a
dissected lung.
SP- A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG,
and
Invaluable to
bINGERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JU,
. . Contain NO cocaine or other poi
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, in Tins, 1s 6d ; from the Proprietor, G. H
free on receipt of stamps. Sydney Depot: 5 and 7 (JKEN’S PLA 1
Melbourne, Agents.
ES (Registered),
nous drug . , w
Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland —po»
and FiSDTON, GKIMWADE ft CO.,
THE BED PAGE.
The Sham of the Century.
There are masked words droning and skulking about us
in Europe just now which nobody understands, but which
everybody uses and most people will also fight for, live
for, or even die for, fancying they mean this or that or
the other of things dear to them. There never were
creatures of prey 'so mischievous, never diplomatists so
cunning, never poisons so deadly as these masked words.
—John Ruskin.
Extending the Blessings of Civilisation to our Brother
who Sits in Darkness has been a good trade and has paid
well, on the whole ; and there is money in it yet, if care-
fully worked--but not enough, in my judgment, to make
any considerable risk advisable. The People that Sit in
Darkness are getting to be too scarce—too scarce and too
shv. And such darkness as is now left is really of but an
indifferent quality, and not dark enough for the game.
The most of those People that Sit in Darkness have been
furnished with more light than was good for them or
profitable for us. We have been injudicious.
The Blessings-of-Civilisation Trust, wisely and cau-
tiously administered, is a Daisy. There is more money
in it, more territory, more sovereignty and other kinds
of emolument, than there is in any other game that is
played. But Christendom has been playing it badly of
late years, and must certainly suffer by it, in my opinion.
She has been so eager to get every stake that.appeared on
the green cloth, tb it the People who Sit in Darkness
have noticed it —tluy have noticed it, and have begun to
show alarm. They have become suspicious of the Bless-
ings of Civilisation. More—they have begun to examine
.them., That is not well. The Blessings of Civilisation
are all right, and a good commercial property ; there
could not be a better, in a dim light. In the right kind
of a light, and at a proper distance, with the goods a
little out of focus, they furnish this desirable exhibit to
the Gentlemen who Sit in Darkness :
LOVE, LAW AND ORDER,
JUSTICE, LIBERTY,
GENTLENESS, EQUALITY,
CHRISTIANITY, HONORABLE DEALING,
PROTECTION TO THE MERCY,
WEAK, EDUCATION,
EMPERANCE, —and so on.
There. Is it good? Sir, it is pie. It will bring into
amp any idiot that sits in darkness anywhere.' This
irand is strictly for Export—apparently. Apparently.
Privately and confidentially, it is nothing of the kind.
confidentially, it is merely an outside
cover, gay and pretty and attractive, displaying the
special patterns of our Civilization which we reserve for
Home Consumption, while inside the bale is the Actual
Thing- that the Customer Sitting in Darkness buys with
his blood and tears and land and liberty.
We all know that the Business is being ruined. Thg
reason is not far to seek. It is because our Mr. M'Kinley,
and Mr. Chamberlain, and the Kaiser, and the Czar, and
the French have been exporting- the Actual Thing with
the outside cover left of. This is bad for the Game. It
shows that these new players of it are not sufficiently
acquainted with it. — Mark Twain.
The most dangerous sham of this generation is
that sentiment which skulks about under the
name of “ Imperialism ” British Imperialism,
American Imperialism—parading its hypocrisy to
the hymn of “The White Man’s Burden,” and
wading through blood and tears in the name of
Almighty God under the pretence of a High Moral
Purpose. Mark Twain, moved in his heart to put
aside the cap and bells and be stern for once,
satirised it scorchingly in his letter “To the Person
Sitting in Darkness.” Now, more effectively
because more dispassionately, more scientifically,
Mr. .T. A. Hobson lias stripped from Imperialism
all the mask of humbug and exposed its real
nature the recklessly cruel and immoral
expression in international relations of the
plutocratic “wrecking” spirit in industrial life.
“Imperialism—a Study” is a work which every
Australian interested in public affairs should read,
for this question is becoming the very core of our
politics. By her ultimate, attitude towards Im-
perialism, Australia’s destiny will be decided. At
one crisis her voice has been for Imperialism, most
strenuously, most clamorously. Whether that
was the result of a temporary mental aberration
or of a stable purpose is yet to be shown.
A study of Mr. Hobson’s book would help Aus-
tralians much to a right understanding of
Imperialism—his facts are so convincing, his
arguments so incontrovertible, his analysis of the
true nature of the principle so dispassionate and
yet so relentless. Defining his terms in a pre-
liminary chapter, the author is careful to distin-
guish between the noble sentiment of Nationalism
and the Imperialism which he condemns.
Nationalism is a plain highway to internationalism, and
if it manifests divergence we may well suspect a per-
version of its nature and its purpose. Such a perversion
is Imperialism, in which nations, trespassing beyond the
limits of facile assimilation, transform the wholesome
stimulative rivalry of varied national types into the cut-
throat struggle of competing empires
Thus Imperialism in practical working
has become a constant agent of menace and of perturba-
tion to the peace and progress of mankind; has exercised
the most notable and formidable influence upon the
conscious statecraft of the nations which indulge in it.
While producing for popular consumption doctrines of
national destiny and imperial missions of civilisation, it
has evolved a calculating, greedy type of Machiavellianism.
The Imperialism of the 20th century is mostly a
matter of extending white rule in tropical black-
inhabited countries, or of crushing the independ-
ence of small white States. So it_ is essentially,
and necessarily an anti-democratic idea —a move-
ment for the extension of autocracy. It not only
crushes out the liberties, and sometimes the lives,
of the conquered, but it throttles popular govern-
ment among the conquerors. It is impossible
that a people can oppress other peoples and be
itself free; the slave system is as bad for the
driver as for the driven. Imperialism is, in fact,
a plutocratic policy. It is a good business for the
rich, and especially for the vulture-class of rich—
those who live by the dead fortunes of others.
The intrigues which invariably accompany Im-
perialistic plans of aggression serve their purpose
admirably; sometimes indeed such intrigues haveno
other object than a stock exchange coup. Further,
Imperialism is a good policy for the hangers-on of
the rich—the soldiers, adventurers, and so on. It
provides them with profitable and “genteel”
(i.e., non-productive) employment. Imperialism
is thus at once a means of fortune to the great
financiers, and a system of out-door relief far the
weaklings of the upper classes.
Outside of the benefit it confers on the financier
“the pawnbroker with an imagination” of
Pinero—lmperialism brings no benefit to the
nation which adopts it as a policy. Mr. Hobson
by means of convincing statistics shows that Im-
perialism is of no true commercial value, that it
has not the stimulating effect on trade which is
ascribed to it so often, and that it is certainly not
needed as an outlet for surplus population by-
England or by America. Its necessary eoncomi-
tant, militarism, involves high taxation, great
waste of labor, and a general lowering of the
moral tone of the community. It is because Im-
perialism is an investors’, a financiers’, policy,
purely and simply, that it was promoted in
England by the Rhodes, Beits, Chamberlains,
Barnatos, in America by their brother-thieves,
the Rockefellers, Pierpont Morgans, and Schwabs.
As to the necessary conflict between Imperial-
ism and democracy, M r - Hobson points out:
The antagonism with democracy drives to the very
roots of Imperialism as a political principle. Not only is
Imperialism used to frustrate those measures of economic
reform now recognised as essential to the effectual work-
ing of all machinery of popular government, but it
operates to paralyse the working of that machinery
itself. Representative institutions are ill adapted for
Empire either as regards men or methods. . . . The
subordination of the legislative to the executive and the
concentration of the executive power in an autocracy are
necessary consequences of the predominance of foreign
over domestic politics. The process is attended by a
decay of party spirit and party action and an insistence
on the part of the aristocracy, whether it be a Kaiser or
a Cabinet, that all effective par y criticism is unpatriotic
and verges on treason. . . . Absorbing the public money,
time, interest and Energy on costly and unprofitable
work of territorial aggrandisement, it thus wastes those
energies of public life in the governing classes which are
needed for internal reforms and for the cultivation of the
arts of material and intellectual progress at home.
Finally, the spirit, the policy, and the methods of
Imperialism are hostile to the institutions of popular self-
government, favoring forms of political tyranny and
social authority which are the deadly enemies of effective
liberty and equality.
Australia, at the outbreak of the late S’African
war, showed a marked sympathy with Im-
perialism. That sympathy has probably
lessened a great deal since, but, doubtless,
still exists, and possibly, with a fresh occasion
would renew its strength. Yet, we make bold to
think, the sympathy was with the pretence not the
reality of Imperialism ; it was a tribute to the
success of an hypocrisy rather than a symptom
of deep-seated national wickedness ; a fault of
ignorance rather than a deliberate verdict in favor
of the plutocratic policy which translates into
international politics the methods of the indus-
trial Trust, If that is so, with enlightenment
will come the reversal of a foolish verdict ; and
there could be no more effective means of en-
lightenment than the work under review, which
by its clearly marshalled facts and closely-reasoned
deductions gives an overwhelming impression of
truth to its final sentences :
The new Imperialism differs in no vital point from this old
example (that of Rome). The element of political tribute
is now absent or quite subsidiary, and the crudest forms
of slavery have disappeared : some elements of more
genuine and disinterested government serve to qualify
and mask the distinctively parasitic nature of the later
sort. But nature is not mocked : the laws which, opera-
tive throughout nature, doom the parasite to atrophy,
decay, and final extinction, are not evaded by nations any
more than by individual organisms. The greater com-
plexity of the modern process, the endeavour to escape
the parasitic reaction by rendering some real but quite
unequal and inadequate services to “ the host,” may retard
but cannot finally avert the natural consequences of living
upon others. The claims that an imperial State forcibly
subjugating other peoples and their lands does so for the
purpose of rendering services to the conquered equal to
those which she exacts is notoriously false : she neither
intends equivalent services nor is capable of rendering
them, and the pretence that such benefits to the governed
form a leading motive or result of Imperialism implies a
degree of moral or intellectual obliquity so grave as itself
to form a new peril for any nation fostering so false a
notion of the nature of its conduct. ‘ ‘ Let the motive be
in the deed, not in the event,” says a Persian proverb.
Imperialism is a depraved choice of national life, im-
posed by self-seeking interests which appeal to the lusts
of quantitative acquisitiveness and of forceful domination
surviving in a nation from early centuries of animal
struggle for existence. Its adoption as a policy implies a
deliberate renunciation of that cultivation of the higher
inner qualities which, for a nation as for an individual,
constitutes the ascendency of reason over brute impulse.
It is the besetting sin of all successful States, and its
penalty is unalterable in the order of nature.
*“ Imperialism, a Study,” by J. A. Hobson, from .tames
Nisbet arid Co., London.
Gurotting and the Lash.
The following challenge has been issued by the
Prison Reform Committee of the Humanitarian
League (Eng.). It is of interest to Australians,
who are often misled by the falsehood mentioned :
It is frequently stated by those who favor the exten-
sion of flogging, that “Garotting was put down in
London by the lash.” This assertion, as a matter not of
opinion hut of fact, is wholly and demonstrably untrue.
The garotte robberies, which commenced in the summer
of 1862, were suppressed by the ordinary law several
months before the Flogging Act of 1863 was even intro-
duced in the House.
Official corroboration Of this fact has been given by
Lord Aberdare and several successive Home Secretaries.
The fallacy has also been exposed by Sir Edmund Du
Cane (the late Chairman of the Board of Directors of
Convict Prisons), the late Lord Herschell, Sir Edward
Clarke, K.C. (late Solicitor-General), Mr. C. H. Hopwood,
K.C. (Recorder of Liverpool), and other authorities.
The following are extracts from speeches delivered in
the House of Commons on March 28th, 1900, when Mr.
Wharton’s Flogging Bill was defeated by a large ma-
jority :
Mr. Asquith (late Home Secretary) : “ As to garotting,
that crime had been brought to an end as a serious
danger before the House of Commons in a fit of panic,
due to one of its own members having been garotted,
resorted to legislation. Garotting was put down, with-
out resort to flogging, by a fearless administration of the
existing criminal law.”
Sir Matthew W. Ridmjy (then Home Secretary):
“Reference had.been made to the Garotting Act. He
agreed with the history of that Act, at all events as far
as London was concerned, given by the right hon. gentle-
man opposite (Jlr. Asquith), and that the rapid and severe
action which put down garotting in London took place
before the passing of the Act of 1863.”
In view of this official testimony, the Humanitarian
League challenges those who persist in asserting that
garrotting was put down by the lash to have the honesty
either to substantiate or to abandon their contention. If
they can prove that the above-quoted authorities -have
given a« untrue version of the facts, such proof should at
once be laid before the public. If they cannot do so, they
should, in common decency, refrain from further circula-
tion of what is false and misleading.
Twentieth Century Fiction,
RE article (“Red Page,” 3/10/’O2) “T.D.”
writes: —
To all appearances the characteristic of
20th eentury fiction, if we may judge by
present evidence, will be development of the novel
of analysis—the novel which goe_s more or less
minutely into the reasons which brought a man to act as
he did, his thoughts before and after the act, and the
influence of environment on temperament. At any rate,
the evolution of fiction points that way, and it is seldom
that the line of evolution is turned aside. Fortunately,
there are no missing links in the chain, and we may trace
it down from the simple story of the first novelist to the
complex study of character which is the highest evolu-
tion of the present-day novel. Broadly speaking, novels
from the 18th century to- this year of grace may be
tabulated thus :
I. Novels of lucident : Defoe, Richardson, Fielding,
Smollett, Sterne.
Link : Oliver Goldsmith.
11. Novels of Sentiment: Frances Burney, Jane Austen.
Link : Charlotte Bronte.
111. Novels of Types : Scott, Thackeray and Dickens.
Link: George Eliot.
IV. .Novels of Character: Meredith, James, Hardy, and
other living writers.
The first class relied almost, if not quite, solely upon
the relation of incident after incident for theirnovels, and
Smollett in particular used the method to such an extent
that his books are little more than a collection of detached
anecdotes and comic situations. The sentimental novel-
ists adopted a quieter tone, but they were still panoramic
in their presentation. Of the “ typical ” novelists, one
remembers the Highland or Lowland oddities of Scott,
the lower and middle-class extravagances of Dickens, and
the society sketches of Thackeray, long after the history
of the first, the humour of the second, and the satire of
the third have been forgotten or superseded. Georg*
Eliot altered the style of fiction when, in “ Daniel
Deronda,” she bent her energy to the analytical study of
human character, after she had, in her first books,
travelled along the same grooves as her predecessors.
Nowadays, the growth of this analytical style has been
most marked, and a school, headed by Meredith, Hardy,
and James (the latter mainly in lbs later novels), has
sprung up, which uses a plot, not as of primary import-
ance but, more properly, as a background to a picture
which portrays studies of men and women, of a deeply
psychological import, probing motives to their remotest
sources, and working out the most complicated result-
ants of mental forces in action. Speaking from the point
of view of evolution, such novels constitute the “best”
class. That they are not yet the most popular is incon-
trovertible, but that is the fault, nob of the novels, but of
the novel reader, whose education does not enable him to
fully grasp their beauties, though he may appreciate the
human element which in all of them is strong. But that
is a fault which time is already remedying, and the
younger men of the school, such, for example, as Charles
Marriott and “Benjamin Swift,” to name but two in
half-a-hundred, are commanding a big public. Taste is a
quality that works downwards, and the man who enjoys
the hysterical melodrama of Hall Caine or Marie Corelli
to-day will to-morrow hide his shamed head in the pages of
a novel of character which his matii re r judgment approves.
Before very long the novel of incident will be relegated to
the obscurity of school libraries, while the seasoned novel
reader will clamor for fiction that will give him more than
the outward manifestation of inward feeling. He will not
.care much whether with that desideratum he gets a pad-
ding of politics, economics, or industrial relations. It
will not worry him that the pages betray a sad tendency
of a people to laxity in moral or-ethical relations. He
will even endure an essay in the realms of morbid intro-
spection or sex problems with equanimity as long as the
same pages give him a study of human motives and
human attributes. His author may be materialist, realist
or idealist, may take.a railway-engine or a grain-elevator
for his scenery, may worship inanimate force to the point
of idolatry, or indulge in the most intricate lobbying
imaginable. All that he will regard as something in the
nature of surplusage, always provided that the men and
women to whom he is introduced in its pages live, move,
and have their being in a way he has either himself ex-
perienced or can himself imagine. Psychological analysis,
in some form or other, is the chief tendency of 20th cen-
tury fiction, the other tendencies are merely minor acces-
sories before or after the fact.
« -
“ C.C.C.,” re Sydney Public Library—
The Sydney Library may be all that “ A.D.” claims it
is, but to the average person this is not apparent.
There is no question of the library authorities agreeing
or disagreeing with Byron’s exceedingly stupid lines.
What they did, it appears,.they were forced to do at the
instigation of a small and prudish section of the com-
munity, and the result of their Herculean labors cannot
be deemed satisfactory. That anyone wishing to
read Catullus should be put to such trouble,"
as “L. 8.” describes, is nothing short of disgrace-
ful. To lock up “Droleries Poetiques” and Catullus,
and leave out Martial, Juvenal, Lucian, and the
Bible, is akin to removing laudanum from the reach of a
would-be suicide, and leaving him instead a bottle of
strychnine. your correspondent’s little pleasantry re
Boccaccio’s tale of the monk and the maiden is worn
threadbare. If he had cited, say, Shakespeare’s “Venus
and Adonis,” or Juvenal, or Lucretius, or Genesis, he
would have struck a new track and been just as con-
vincing. The fact that the principal librarian \tfas
besieged with applicants for Casanova’s “ Memoirs ” in no
way alters the fact that these volumes are of considerable
literary value. If someone were to point out, through
the press, the “ spicy bits” of the Old Testament Word,
there would not be Bibles enough in the library to meet
the demand. Let me give: one more specimen of the kind
of thing that obtains at that institution. In 1899, a
friend of mine was using one of the books kept in the
reserved portion of the library, for reference, and access
to this book meant bread and butttfr to him. On one
occasion the attendant who usually got the volume for
him was oflf duty, and, on applying to his substitute, this
glib-tongued youth, without the slightest hesitation,
said : “ Oh ! it’s in the hands of the binders at present.”
Nor did my friend get the book without some loss of
time, which, to him, was valuable.
The “ Life of Henry George,” by his soh Henry,
is well done. As a boy he went to sea, sailing in
the ship Hindoo, from New York for Australia.
He struck Melbourne in the fever of the Golden
Era. Then he went to Calcutta. Returning to
America, after more than a year, he was not long
before seafaring again. He went to San Francisco,
via Magellan’s Straits, in a small Government
steamer. Before going to sea at all he had learnt
typesetting. In ’Frisco he became a compositor,
after another voyage to the goldfields of Van-
couver. His runaway marriage, eminently happy,
was with Miss Fox, a Catholic. His journalistic
development was slow and hard. A born author,
he does not appear to have been constructed for
reporter or journalist. Overlanding East, on
business connected with telegraphic journalism,
be wrote his “ Progress and Poverty.” His pros-
perous time is more within the public knowledge.
Prooshan : Henry Lawson’s admirers will appre-
ciate “Red Page” criticism (30/10/’O2) of “The
Children of the Bush.” Lawson’s London sojourn,
short though it was, did not improve him, and, if
he wishes to retain the great Australian appre-
ciation he has won, he had better see to his
“boyangs” and hump the faithful “Matilda”
again. England is no place for Lawson. It is a
remarkable and regretful thing that he should
have quitted “solid” ground to fossick among
the moving stones at ’Ome. He says “London
calls ” ; perhaps so, in a sense, but there is more
to win than mere pecuniary remuneration as a
ready hand on magazines—capable of padding and
trimming and squaring to order. Thehe is an
Anstralian crown waiting at home. Why x qeek a
foreign one ? \ ,
“France has an unjust reputation for vice, and
England an equally unjust reputation for virtue.
Le Gallienne.
Received.—” Something About Voice a
technical but simple pamphlet on the voice by
Dr. Iredell (from Geo. Robertson and Co.,
Sydney).


WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, and CO., Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN
SYDNEY.
Il’a Fruit-Tree mashes
fOa
Chief Agents; F. LASSETTER & CO.
Kangaroo,
Wallaby,
Rabbit,
Opossum.
SEND ALL SKINS TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., uo.
The Leading Salesmen.
SYIDTSTjESY,
Full Values and Quick Returns,
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores; PYRMONT-
SOLB Commission 3 Per Cent.
IVTO Per Pound Delivery Charge.
Liberal Advances,
Accurate Valuations,
When required.
WOOL
Selling: Brokers.
PROMPT
RETURNS A
SPECIALITY.
HARRISON, JONES & DEVLIN, Ltd
Special Attention to
details.
Weights carefully
taken
Pt>iHAmale having- over 30 Years
X rillbipctlo Experience Conduct
AH Wool Sales.
Offices and Stores:
Circular Quay,
Sydney.
The Bulletin Reciter:
By Eighty (80) Bulletin Bards. With Illustrations by “ Hop,” N. Lindsay,
A. J. Fischer, F. Leist, D. EL Soutor, and H. MoOrae. In handsome doth,
decorated. Price, 55.; postage, 4d.
NEITHER CRACK
NOR BURN.
i
6°
5806
s 6
5807
5808
CBB
SHILLING BRIAR PIPES
QUALITY NOT BETTER
IN A GUINEA PIPE. . .
GUARANTEE.— Should any of our Celebrated CAN’T-B-BEAT Briar Pipes Crack or Bara a
New One will be Exchanged for it immediately on Application.
Sold by all Tobacconists. By Post, le. 2d.
Quality not better in a G-uinea Pipe.
0.8.8. Pipe, Sterling Silver Mount, 2/6
each.
0.8.8. Pipe, hand-finished, with Ster-
ling Silver Mount, polished Vulcanite
Mouthpiece, in Morocco Leather
Case, 4/* each.
0.8.8. Meerchaum Pipe, guaranteed
genuine, Sterling Silver Screw, Best
Quality Mouthpiece, Morocco Gold-
lined Case, 21/- each.
0.8.8. Pipe, hand-finished, Sterling
Silver Mounted Rim and Band, in
Morocco Gold-lined Leather Case,
8/6 each.
C. 8.8.
0.8.8. Presentation Companion, con-
taining two Silver Mounted, hand-
finished Pipes, Superior Quality
Mouthpieces, Red Morocco Gold-
lined Case, 15/6 each.
C. 8.8?
VA
RICHMOND
TOBACCO
Dark and
Bright
IS THE BEST.
Price, ss. lb., Post Free, all States-
HAVING secured the Sole Agency for the
above brand of AMERICAN TOBACCO, we
have very much pleasure in recommending
same to our Clients and thr Smoking Public. We
feel sure that one trial will be sufficient to con-
vince Smokers tl at “ S( LIO SHOT ” is the finest
Tobacco on the market. Splendid aroma, and
does not bite the tongue.
Save “Sr lid Shot” Tobacco Tags.
For Bach 10J you will receive from the
Agents, free, one only C. 8.8. Briar
Pipe and Pocket Knife.
wkqlfsale price lists on application.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney, n.s w
WHY WE USE NO DRUGS.
BECAUSE during over 20 years of constant application to the study of, and use of Electricity, we have
proven positively that if Electricity will cure a certain ailment, or combination of ailments, that
DRUGS are an UNNECESSARY and always an EXCEEDINGLY EXPENSIVE auxiliary. Of
course, we all know that there are many ailments that require drugs, but in these cases a few doses are
sufficient. It is the CHRONIC case that will not get well without an addition of new nerve life.
Your condition shows you—at least, your experience does—that DRUGS won’t cure you. You need
new vigor, new steam power in that human machine of yours. Don’t let anyone induce you to waste your
money on DRUGS. If you use ELECTRICITY they are SUPERFLUOUS, AND ARE ALWAYS AN
EXPENSIVE ITEM.
We know our business thoroughly, and when we tell you that your symptoms require Electrical aid and
that we can cure you, depend upon it our word is supreme. Follow our advice, let us apply
DR. MCLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT
and in ten days your system will begin to improve under the exhilarating influence of the soothing, healing-
electric current being poured into it. In thirty days you will know that you are going to get well at last.
You feel new vigor, new life, a sense of elation and good spirits that you have been a stranger to for a long-
time. Three months of this potent remedy is sufficient to cure the worst case of WEAKNESS, LAME
BACK, RHEUMATISM, NERVOUSNESS, GENERAL DEBILITY, SCIATICA. LUMBAGO, IN-
DIGESTION or CONSTIPATION that ever existed; and then you will be able to lay aside the Belt a
new and a cured man or woman. This has been the accomplishment of thousands. You join the happy
throng. You’ll bless us for urging you. Each week we give you new evidence.
FROM NEW ZEALAND.
I am so delighted with my Belt that I quite forgot all about
writing to you. lam pleased to be able to tell you that the pain oyer
my heart has entirely disappeared already, and I don’t tire so easily
as I used to. I will report my case to you again in SO days.
I remain, yours sincerely,
Pahiatua, New Zealand. OTTO WEBB.
FROn TASHANIA.
Since using your Belt, the pain in my shoulders and back is
entirely gone, and all feeling, as if my strength was gradually
leaving me, is over. I have no more horrible dreams, and am much
stronger in every way.
Yours truly,
Wesleyvale, N.W. Coast.
ROBT. PIPER.
WOMAN’S WOES CHANGED TO GLADNESS.
THE DR. McLAUGHLIN CO. 132 Union St., Brunswick, Melbourne, Vic.
Dear Sirs,—ln answer to vour letter asking about my health, lam more than pleased to tell you that, after wearing your high grade
Electric Belt for four weeks, I have received great benefit. I have been a great sufferer for four years, both with my head and serious
inward complaints, also with rheumatism in my wri9t and knees, also with a weak back, and could not sleep at nights. But, now thank
God, that since I have used your Belt, I can sleep well, and my work is a pleasure to me.
I would recommend anyone suffering from weakness of any kind to try one of your Belts, and lam sure they will get relief. I will
be pleased to recommend your Belt to anyone who would write or call, for I know there are many poor sufferers who would like to get
relief like I have. Thanking you for all your kindness to me, I remain, yours gratefully, Mrs. NELLIE McOAMEY.
What do such letters as the above mean to you, dear reader? Simply this, that if you will follow
our advice, you will write to us in the same strain inside three months. While you are using our Belt you
are under the care and advice of a Legally-Qualified and Registered Specialist of over 30 years standing
—a man whose reputation is above reproach. Our Belts are sent to all countries Duty Paid.
WRITE TO US FOR EXPLANATION OF “ FREE BELT ” FRAUDS.
A
w
f
"MV
&
\\\
t\\N
READ OUR FREE BOOK.
No matter if you don’t expect to use or buy a Belt, you
should have and read carefully our Book describing our method
of application. It is illustrated and gives cuts showing how
we treat different symptoms. It is not a cheap pamphlet for
advertising purposes, but is a treatise on Medical Electricity.
SENT FREE, POST PAID. Send for it to-day.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co-,
85 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Offices : 167 E Swanston Street.
M ELLIN’S
FOR INFANTS FOOD AND INVALIDS
Is adapted for use from birth.
Send for Pamphlet and Samples to GOLLIN & CO., Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide and Wellington.
C. BRAN DAU ER & Co.’S (Ltd.)
CIRCULAR-POINTED PENS j
Seven Prize Medals Awarded.
Neither scratch nor
spurt, the points
being' rounded by a
new process.
Attention is also
drawn to their new
-CRADUATED
SERIES OF
PENS.”
'lll
M
Bitch pattern brim )n x f" m •nor donyt'es of flexibility and P r tin*K
Ask your Storekeeper for an Assorted Sample Box of either series.
Works: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND


TRADE MARK
Fox Bros. & Co., Ltd., warn
the Public that their Trade
Mark consists
ONLY
of the word
FOX
which is a guarantee of sound'
ness of material and Quality
of Dye of all
Worsted Coatings,
Serges 1 Swells
on which it is stamped.
As the result of many years
of experience
pax’s pare 3nsigo Dye
is recognised as the best in the
market. All FOX'S standard
cloths are stamped every two
yards on the back
FOX
PURE INDIGO
and without this stamp are
not genuine. These celebrated
serges can be obtained from the
leading Tailors and Drapers
throughout the Colonies.
fox em§. & Co., Ltd.,
Wellington, Somerset, Eng.
FAL UtiG
r Y £s
r. .
<?«
TOOTH-ACHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
BUNTERS
Prevents Decay, Saves
Extraction, Sleepless Night!
Prevented.
Neuralsic Head aches & all Nerve
Pains removed by BUNTER’S
NERVINE. Of all Stores.
NERVINE
“As a specific for Tooth ache it has no equal, I have
used it successfully for years.”—Prof. W. Wilson, M.D.
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’S WORSDELL’S PILLS
Are a certain Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Head ache,
Dyspepsia, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, 4c,
Of all Stores.
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
A RELIANCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electrics
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.' ’
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
—- each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTICE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
G 3 Elizabeth Stbeex, SYDNEY.
The VOLCANIC
/CRATING
MACHINE
Important to Hotelkeepers
make your own
SODAWATER, LEMONADE, GINGER ALE, and
all other /Crated Drinks, with
The “||olcanic”
[rated Water machine
The Waters are Pure, Bright and Sparkling, and-
the cost of making them a mere trifle.
NO SKILLED LABOR REQUIRED.
A few reasons why the 44 Volcanic ” Machine Is superior to all others.
1. The Valve works automatically ; no other aerating machine of this class has an Automatic Valve.
2. The Water Cylinder holds 10 gals., and has two perforated partitions inside, causing the sparkle so much
appreciated. Weight, 801bs. Copper, thoroughly tinned inside and outside.
3. The gas tube holds 671bs. pure gas, being much larger than the tubes supplied with other plants.
4. The Turn-over Bottling Rack is made of the best metal. Thirty dozen per hour can lie bottled with it.
6. The “ VOLCANIC ” Machine is the only one of its kind erected in the leading houses in Meluourne,
including—The Grand Hotel, Parer’s Crystal Caf6, Parer’s The Duke Cafe, Young and Jackson’s, ,J.
Richardson’s Hotel, Bourke-st., Evans’ Covent Garden Cafb, Eneas Caf<s, Town Hall Hotel, Sheehan s
New Treasury Hotel, Rubira’s Cafe, Victoria Coffee Palace, Hotel Metropole, Imperial, Lucas Bros.
(Confectioners), Bath’s Hotel, Union Club, Britannia, Australian, A.N.A., City Arms, etc., etc. Also
many others in the suburbs and the leading houses in the country. -
Price, £3O, with all accessories.
BPECIAL NOTICE.— The “VOLCANIC” Machine was the first of its kind introduced into Australasia
It received the Gold Medal against all competitors at the Ballarat Exhibition. Any other machine of a simile;
design is an inefficient imitation.
Write for PamphlotSi containing Testimonials from people who have used the machines for years.
W. JAMES, Proprietor,
Office : 101'QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE.
Depot : 130 CECIL ST., SOUTH MELBOURNE.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
HIS MAJESTY
THE KING.
MOIR'S
“MAYFAIR”
TABLE-JELLY
a
a-minute by
the mere ad-
dition of boil-
ing water-”
IN PINT
PACKETS.
CRYSTALS
Manufacturers—JOHN MOXR & SON, LTD., LONDON, ABERDEEN and SEVILLE
Head Office: 9 & 10, Graat Tower Street, LONDON, E.C.
ENO’S
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE
‘FRUIT
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
0/VUTION.— See capsule marked ENO’B ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it you have a,
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. O. ENO, Ltd., ‘FRUIT SALT WORKS, LONDON, ENG*.,
by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
LEARN TO HYPNOTIZE!
Reader, do you desire to become a Hypnotist? Do you want to know how to utilize the most
powerful and mysterious force of nature? Do you value control over others? Do you value the
means of securing friendship, love and personal influence? Do you value the power to conquer
pain and banish sickness, to reform a misguided friend, to gain business success, to win wealth,
position and happiness ? If you do, you must learn to Hypnotize. Why not ? No other accom-
plishment is so easily acquired. It can be mastered in a few hours time, without leaving your
home. It costs nothing to find out all about it. The greatest Hypnotist of the century has just
issued in book form a large and exhaustive TREATISE, OR INSTRUCTOR IN HYPNOTISM,
covering the whole ground of his Science, and he will send it while the edition lasts, absolutely
FREE TO ALL who apply. The book is profusely illustrated, containing beautiful and artistic
engravings, and shows as never was done before the principles, features, wonders
and uses of this mysterious Science all in a popular and pleasing style. It tells
you just what Hypnotism is and fiat you may accomplish with it. It shows you
how you may sway the minds of others, per orm astounding feats,
and produce amusement by the hour. New and instantaneous
methods. Success absolutely guaranteed. Remember this grand
work costs you nothing. It benefits everybody who reads it. It
places you in touch with the wonder-science of the age. Read
it anyhow. It is absolutely FREE. Apply at once to—
PROF. R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Dr. Clarkson’s Electric Belt
will AH your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be, stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Dr. Clarkson’s Re-Invigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
vigour.
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
neptic Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
parts, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-IN VIGORATOR
will bring happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and Organs s truly wonderful.
THiLIR IUUOiI lb M. AvxN iLTIO.
Price—ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
CALL OR WRITE-
OWL „ c » u t t e dkxjg storf
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS. SYDNEY.
*«
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
CLOTH, 300 PAGES.
BY SIXTY BULLETIN WRITERS. PRICE, 4s. 6d. ; POSTAGE Qi.
Sole Distributing Agents—
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
S€ND US
YOUR PHOTOGRAPH.
JF you send a Photograph of yourself (or friend) to
Mr. Mark Blow, Crown Studios, Sydney,
he will reproduce from it a very beautiful and
Artistically Finished
Permanent Enlargement
In Black and White, equalling a rich Steel Plate
“Engraving, handsomely mounted on an Indian-tinte
Elate, sunk mount,, and as good in every way as Enlarge-
ments now being supplied at from 30/- to 50/- each, ana
will carefully pack it and send it Carriage Paid to an> r
-address in Australia, Tasmania, or New Zealand for 10 6.
Your Photo , Returned with Order.
BNSTEAD OF BETTIN3 on fast ljorses, bet
on the fast Indigo Bine Serges, at Charles Gilbert s,
the leading tailor. Latest Summer Start-
ing Prices, viz., from 50s. Suit to measure,
carriage paid to any address in the Commonwealth.
A Soft thing. No Write for
Catalogue, Patterns and Self-measurement Forms,
Queen-street, Brisbane, and compare his values with any
in the Southern States. You will be backing a sure
thin g. ___
THE HOTELKEEPERS’ FRIEND.
'J//
r
L
Soda Water, la. per doi,
Lemonade and Ging-er Ale, 3d. per doz.
Hotelkeepers make their own supplies Of
Aerated Waters.
No skilled labor required. Anyone can learn to
operate the machine in ten minutes.
TESTIMONIALS.
“ To the Daylesford Mineral Water Co.
“ Dear Sirs, —The machine purchased from you is per-
fection. Tiif, Stuff turned out is Splendid. It is the best
speculation I have entered into since I joined the Licensed
Victuallers. — Geo. Niciiolls, Royal Hotel, Swan Hill.
Mr. P. Kennedy, Ooolgardie, says Profits saved by-
making my own supplies of Aerated Waters with the
Machine pay the rent of my hotel.”
Mr. Lewis, Heidelberg, Victoria, says : “ I have made
thousands of dozens of the best Aerated Waters with the
Machine, and it has not required sixpence worth of
repairs. No Hotelkeeper should, be without one of
them.”
Mr. W. Atkinson, Hotelkeeper, Wentworth, N.S.W.,
says:—“lt is the greatest money maker yet discovered
for hotelkeepers.”
Mr. Burk, Yalgo, W.A., says : —“ Since getting one of
your Machines, and making our own soft stuff, I have
saved its price ten times over.”
W. H. Jones, Peak Hill, W.A., says “Machine great
success.”
E. Davis, Peak Hill, W.A., says “ Cannot speak too
highly of effectiveness and simplicity.”
G. N. Murdoch, Abbotts, W.A., says:—“ Value of
Machine indisputable ; quality and cheapness of stuff
unquestionable.”
T. H. Williams, Mossman, Queensland, says :—“ Highly
successful, and recommend to all hotelkeepers.”
J. S. Davidson, Bundaberg, Queensland, says : —“Great
saving compared to previous cost of stock.”
A profitable business awaits pushing men in many small
centres of population, where a deeply-felt want exists for
A GOOD QUALITY of AERATED WATERS. OBSERVE THE PROFITS.
Call and see these machines, or write for circular describ-
ng them, also Price List. Prices Reduced.
Daylesford Hepburn Mineral Water Co-
-407 COLLINS-STREET, MELBOURNE.
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRAVAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated drops.
FER BRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
bling! i> constitution
to irsist climatic
influences
Invaluable in all
cases of anosmia and
general debility.
Highly recommended
for weak and
debilitated children.
LANCET “A beautiful and interesting
preparation
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL .-"It has all
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
it does not blacken the teeth "
SOU) BY CHEMISTS AM THE WOBI.D OVER.
WHOLESALE: Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette-
RUPTURE
CURED
without
operation or pain,
Throw away
your Truss.
no detention from work, or depend-
ence upon Trusses. The only
humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
Treatise No. io. Address:
1 SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C.S., ENG.,
Cor Russell 4 Collins Sts.,
r MELBOURNE.
Free for Asking:.
WRITE to us and we will forward you our scientific
book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become.healthy, strong- and vigorous—the envy of your
'“How-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
ble>s the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
ains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy,
strength, and ambition once more. Posted free. Write
o Proprtftor, Box 135, G.P.0., Adelaide, S.A.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
;o n i sing Yankee Rubber Baby, can be carried in vest
, i et and blown out to life-size (causes roars of
mghter), Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Casket, Book of
'onjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Coin and Card
ricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard Fish (gives
he definition of your character), The Mafeking Grub (og
erve-strengthener), and, last of all, that side-splitting
ok and Laugh Glass, Instructions enclosed.
This splendid Packet posted to any address vn Aus-
iiilia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
H. L. HUTCHINSON,
XNEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
710 Georjje-street, SYDNEY.


&
There is this
peculiar thing
about our Hair
Vigor : it’s a hair-
food, not a dye.
It doesn’t turn
your hair sud-
denly black and
make it look dead
and lifeless. But
gradually the old
color comes back,
all the rich color it
used to have. And
it also stops falling
of the hair.
Even if your hair
isn’t coming out,
isn’t turning gray,
isn’t too short,
yet you certainly
want a fine dress-
ing for it, and here
it is.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
It keeps the scalp clean and healthy,
removes all dandruff, makes the hair
grow rapidly, prevents it from falling
out, and does not allow a single gray
hair to appear.
Do not he deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Make sure that you get the genuine
Ayer’s Hair Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
W. H.Wigzell.
FRINGES : Best Natural Curly
Hair, 3/6, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each.
TAILS and PLAITS : 20in. long',
5/6 ; extra thick, 7/6; 24in., 10/6;
extra thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings worked up,
2/6 per oz. Don’t be misled.
Our Plaits and Tails are twice as
thick as sold elsewhere at the
same price. Send color of Hair.
Only one address : 110 WILLIAM-
ST., cor. of Palmer St. SYDNEY.
in,!* f ' VI , Bto P at door. All work guaranteed,
illustrated Catalogue post free. Prompt attention given
to country orders. Wigs made on shortest notice. All
Hairwork sent to the other States free of duty. Transfor-
mations, entire covering for the head, 30/- each.
I’ll Try It.'
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Gapillarine
Posted (under cover)
' to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 108. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
\
The Remit.
CRAIG & AITKEN, N.s ■W. Barber’s Supply
House, 680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
This New
Fashionable
Mount,
TWO TIPS WITH
OSPREYS,
In black, white, cream
or black tipped with
white,
Q / THE BUNOH.
Post Free.
We make this special offer to
advertise our
Ostrich Tips.
Write To-day. Send Postal Note.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Bourke and Swanston Streets, MELBOURNE.
Mention The Bulletin.
THE PHOTOGRAPHIC SENSATION
OF THE SEASON.
KODAK -
Glass
Plate
Cameras
Write far Illustrated and
Descriptive Leaflet, and
mention this Paper.
KODAK Ltd.,
284- Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Australian Sailorman’s Book—
E. J. BRADY’S
“Che mays of many maters.”
A rattling collection of Sea Chanties. Price
ss. 3d. post free from The Bulletin office.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE
Australian
Mutual Provident Society
SPECIAL NOTICE
Next Distribution of the Profits at
31st December, 1902.
Policies issued before the close of this year will share in the Bonus to be then allotted.
The Cash Bonus divided among the participating policy holders for the single year 1901 was £538 725
being the largest amount ever allotted by the Society in one year. (All bonuses vest immediately
on policies attaining a duration of two years. J
Persons desirous of effecting assurances with the A.M.P. Society should note the above carefully and
send in their applications early, either direct or through any of the Society’s Agents, so as to’reao
the benefit of this year’s bonus. 1
Directors— -Thomas Littlejohn, Esq.,Chairman; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.0., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
Esq. ; Senator J. T. Walker; J. Abbott, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ; F. E. Winciicombe Esn M P
General Manajrer and Actuary— Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S. ’
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 10s.
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
IBS’ Send for a
Catalogue.
Bent Shaft Sulkies,
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles.
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, i3o Sussex St., Sydney
Straight Shaft 3-Spring Sulkies, £8 10s.
Sarven Sulky Wheels Tyred, £2 4s 6d pair.
Discount to Wholesale Buyers. Send for Catalogue.
PLAYER’S
WORLD
FAMED
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
p
'Hun
wm
ammi
WHOLESALE
Distributing Agents
New South Wales —
M. RUTTY & CO.,
SYDNEY.
Victoria —
J. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia —
Hart, Lawrence % Co.
Propy. Ld., Adelaide
Western Australia —
Lionel Samson & Son,
Fremantle
Queensland —
Thoo. Brown & Sons, Ld.
Brisbane
Burns, Phllp & Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania —
Watchorn Bros.,
Hobart
John McKenzie & Co.,
Launceston
New Zealand—
D. Benjamin & Co.
Dunedin, Wellington I
and ChriBtohuron. I
“New Rival ” and “Repeater ”
WINCHESTER
Shotgun Cartridges
“New Rival ” loaded with Black powder, and “ Repeater ”
loaded with Smokeless powders. When buying, always
insist upon having them, take no others, and you will get
the best Cartridges for the price that money can buy.
4.
NO TROUBLE TO GET, AfcL DEALERS KEEP THEM.
", WINCH ESTER GOODS.
M‘LEAN BROS. & RIGG, Ltd.
ELIZABETH ST., JTELBOURNE ; GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
IMPORTED BY
The RECORD
y ?? Excellence of Construction,
Optical Accuracy, AND
Perfection of Finish *
is held by the latest shipment of . .
premo poco Cameras
THE BAKER and ROUSE PROPRIETARY, Ltd.
Sizes and Patterns to suit STUDIO, FIELD, TELEPHOTO,
and STEREOSCOPIC work, including the Wonderful “Snappa”
and “ Pocket Poco,” which are beyond the possibilities of com-
parison as Hand and General Cameras for Tourists.
Can be used with either Plates or Films.
Their Distinguishing Features are Simplicity, Strength, Portability, Elegance.
Inspection Cordially Invited by
The Baker & Rouse Proprietary, Ltd.,
.375 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and BRISBANE.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Two Mistresses.
Rainer, he has a studio
High up—so high—you scarcely hear the noise
Of passing traffic in the street below,
Where men and women look like girls and boys.
Yet, you may see such sunsets, gold and red,
Such dawns green-tinted, and such white moon-
beams
From its high windows that your soul, o’erfed
With light and color, will lie down in dreams.
Rainer, the artist, has not many friends,
Just two or three, who come and chat with him
On Art, and, while they chat, the smoke ascends
From their brown pipes and makes the studio
dim.
Rainer is poor, but Rainer has a heart'
That bleeds if men plead, or if women weep,
He keeps the treasures of his soul for Art,
But gold and silver he can no wise keep.
Rainer’s in love ; he says her scarlet lip
Is like a flower’s, and that her eyes are true
Brown eyes, like pools where banks of brown ferns
dip;
And fill the depths with shadow of their hue.
And he and she have made it up to wed
(I question not but that they do what’s right);
Yet, will they have rich sunsets for their bed,
And clothe themselves in coverlids of light ?
And shall they feed on Fancy—drink the wine
Of golden dreams, and need no other fare ?
A year hence, shall they deem their love divine,
Or poor, with feet of clay and eyes of care ?
Lord pity all who love our Lady Art
The while they hold (O lips of rose and myrrh !)
Some sweet face, shyly blushing, at their heart.
And Rainer . . . Shall he cleave to Art or her ?
RODERIO QUINN.
In the Organ-Loft.
The lamps are lit in the hall, but soft
And dim is the light in the Organ-loft.
Beside me the pipes rise, stem by stem ;
I can place my hand on the lips of them.
But down in the great hall, far below,
There is light and color, and life and glow;
And the heads of women are moving there
Like the heads of flowers in a vast parterre.
And thousands of faces, with eyes alight,
Shine with the Pride of Life to-night;
Faces and faces in close array,
That seems like a vision of Judgment Day.
Faces of women, and faces of men,
I never may see in this world again ;
But somewhere outside of this earthly maze
We all may foregather—one of these days.
And their whispering voices that seem
Like the voices one hears in a dream,
Rise and fall, and sink and soar,
Like the soughing of wind in the pines,
Like the murmur of waves on the shore.
And a Woman, in raiment of white,
Stands and sings on the stage to-night
For the rapture of men and delight ;
And whoso listens, beyond control,
Then passes away from him his soul.
Then the Organ, with voice like the sea,
Speaks with power and majesty,
And I feel like one who stands
Above the valley lands
On a mountain-top, when the thunder
Peals through the air, and all around
Is the beauty of terrible sound,
And the throb of a beating heart of wonder.
These things I hear and see in the soft,
Dim cloistral light of the organ-loft.
VICTOR J. DALEY.
Ballad at Farting.
I’ve played the fool and had my fling,
I pay the price and make no moan.
Uncaring, I have plucked Death’s sting
And driven it through my flesh and bone.
11l weeds about my path have grown;
111 deeds have sprung, I know not how;
My last card-castle’s overthrown . . .
I need you more than ever now.
A linnet with a broken wing,
All wretched, famished, and alone,
Is happier than I. To sing
I have no heart; my heart is stone.
Ah, dear ! my every hope has flown.
Deep in the dust my head I bow,
For I must reap as I have sown . . .
I need you more than ever now !
Farewell, lost Love ! Not mine to cling
To dreams. My life has failed. Your own
Is quiet joy through blossomed Spring
Till Summer’s fairest flowers have blown.
Farewell! No fault of mind condone.
May all kind gods your years endow !
Then let me die, unwept, unknown.
I need you more than ever—now.
Dora, if lifelong fain atone
I'll cry, Heav’n’s radiance on my brow,
Amid God’s host, before His throne,
“I need you more than ever now!”
TAS.
FRANK MORTON.


USB
SPOOLERS
SPOONERS
V
❖
*
pt* *1
INTENT LEATHER BOOT*
GUZED KIDS&?
i>,»>!##* **,**'•
VM »•*<
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning 1 and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is. |
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking, j
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Eto.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
MEN
If
you
are
suffering from Varico
cele, Atrophy, Weak
ness, enclose 6 stamps (postage and packing), and
I will send
MEDICINE FREE
FOR YOUR INDIVIDUAL CASE.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING
to try my Life Syrup Remedies, which give back
strength of body and brain —not a free prescription
dodge, but a trial of my wonderful remedy free for
the asking.
Professor H. READ,
165 Collins Street, Melbourne.
ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 38. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers & Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
IW' Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia..
CRAIG & AITBZBKT,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 George Street, Sydney.
EVERY MAN IS
More or less interested in the curative powers of
MEDICAL GALVANISM and the proper method of
applying this wonderful agent. Before purchasing
Electric Belts or Batteries send for our valuable FREE
BOOK entitled “THE MODERN TREATMENT OF
DISEASE BY ELECTRICITY.” It will tell you what
you ought to know, and may save you time, money
and disappointment. Address—
ARTHUR HALE 6t SON,
44 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
rNLOROPyNE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &c-» bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
XHE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS o!
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
"If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodynk. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forma
its best recommendation.”
mm
*■s
Rupture
I Dr. Pierce’s Electric Truss
is a Marvel. Nothing like
it. Best Retainer on earth
and a Genuine Cure for Rupture.
World-renowned. 27 improvem’ts.
If ruptured, send a stamp, (any
sort), for new “Booklet No. 1.”
MAGNETIC E. TRUSS CO., 206 Post Street, San
Francisco, U.S.A.; VI. 11. Soal & Co.» Agents, Sydney.
Theßoman
Hair
Restorer!
Produces Brown and Black Hair. I
Price 1/6 ;by post, 2/3. J
An inexpensive and
certain preparation for
renewing and restoring
to its original color the
hair of the head, beard
and whiskers.
Largely used by the Roman ladies for preserving their
magnificent tresses. Nourishes the roots and removes
dandruff ; increases the quantity, and renders it glossy
and supple ; does not stain the skin nor soil the linen. If
your hair is falling off or turning grey, use this.
. CAUTION,—This being different from most prepara-
tions, other kinds should be refused,
JAMES BRINSMEAD and CO., Chemists, ST. KILDA
All Chemists sell it.
~GENTS. v
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address.— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
WOOL. PRODUCE. CRAIN.
The New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Coy., Ltd., SYDNEY,
ACT A.S SELLING BROKERS OIXTIVST.
Consignors are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of this Company.
WOOL
COMMISSION FOR SELLING THREE-QUARTERS (f) PER CENT.
'(lncluding Receiving into Store, Fire Insurance,
Weighing, Lotting, Repacking, Sample Bales,
Advertising, Cataloguing, etc.) on Wool real-
• ising over SIXPENCE per lb. the charges
will be 3s. 9d. per Bale.
On Wools realising SIXPENCE and over Four-
pence per lb. ... ... ... • ... ... 2s. 6d. per Bale.
On Wools realising FOURPENCE per lb. and
_ under ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Is. 6d. per Bale.
WAREHOUSING
Perfect System of Weighing-. Way Bills sent on Application.
PRODUCE
SALES of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, etc., HELD WEEKLY.
WHEAT.
Every inducement is offered growers to consign their grain for realisation by the Company
Ample accommodation is provided. Three months free storage is allowed. Circulars are sent when
desired giving cost of railage and full particulars as to Charges, Advances, etc., etc.
AGENTS POE. McDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP.
J. BARTRAM & SON,
34 & 36 Market Street, Sydney Clarence Street)
19, 21, 23 King Street, Melbourne.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES . . .
The ENGLISH DE LAVAL STEAM TURBINE CO. LTD., Leeds.
Makers of Steam Turbines, Turbine Dynamos, Turbine Pumps, Turbine Fans.
(Over 80,000 Horse-power in use.)
Messrs. GREENWOOD & BATLEY LTD., Albion Works, Leeds.
Machine Tool Manufacturers and Electrical Engineers, Dynamos, Motors, Pumps, etc.
Messrs. CONNOLLY BROS. LTD,, Manchester.
iiQMiatnH cables, Wires, Tapes, etc.
w
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-oplrltcd, Tired of Lifo, Havo you utterly
•fj.ilod in your efforts to roga.in Health?
Co to the Fountain Head
And consult Old Surgeon Langston, who will Cure
you. Forty years’ practice as a Specialist is sufficient
Guarantee ol 1 the doctor's ability.
AVOID unskilled pretenders, flaming- advertisements and specious
cure alls.
Vigor and Strength ~ ho
OLD SURGEON LANGSTON,
Member Koya! College of Surgeons. England, located in Melbourne
elnco 1886, has ho perfected Ins method of treatment that it. can
almost be Baid there are no hopeless or incurable cases
Be the equal of* your fellow man.
If you are a sufferer from any nervous, chronic Blood or Skin diseases, or interested In the subject of
Neurasthenia and associated evils, write at once for book of information, blank forms, etc., and have the
old doctor diagnose your case.
Seek tire Trutla., It ooata INTotlilng!
All communications strictly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, cor.RusseiU Collins Sts., Melbourne.
w
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-oplrltcd, Tired of Lifo, Havo you utterly
•fj.ilod in your efforts to roga.in Health?
Co to the Fountain Head
And consult Old Surgeon Langston, who will Cure
you. Forty years’ practice as a Specialist is sufficient
Guarantee ol 1 the doctor's ability.
AVOID unskilled pretenders, flaming- advertisements and specious
cure alls.
Vigor and Strength ~ ho
OLD SURGEON LANGSTON,
Member Koya! College of Surgeons. England, located in Melbourne
elnco 1886, has ho perfected Ins method of treatment that it. can
almost be Baid there are no hopeless or incurable cases
Be the equal of* your fellow man.
If you are a sufferer from any nervous, chronic Blood or Skin diseases, or interested In the subject of
Neurasthenia and associated evils, write at once for book of information, blank forms, etc., and have the
old doctor diagnose your case.
Seek tire Trutla., It ooata INTotlilng!
All communications strictly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, cor.RusseiU Collins Sts., Melbourne.
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regrain Health?
do to the Fountain Head
And consult Old Surgeon Langston, who will Cure
you. Forty years’ practice as a Specialist is sufficient
Guarantee of the doctor’s ability.
AVOID unskilled pretenders, flaming advertisements and specious
cure-alls.
Vigor and Strength £ ho
OLD SURGEON LANGSTON,
Member Royal College of Surgeons, England, located in Melbourne
since 1886, has so perfected his method of treatment that it can
almost be said there are no hopeless or incurable cases.
Be the equal of yourfellow man
If you are a sufferer from any nervous, chronic Blood or Skin diseases, or interested in the subject of
Neurasthenia and associated evils, write at once for book of information, blank forms, etc., and have the
old doctor diagnose your case.
Seels: tlie Trntli, It costa KTotiting!
All communications strictly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, cor. Russell & Collins Sts., Melbourne.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
HMBRAOma
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 86 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1902 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged
Y° t “' c ° vered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; is 6d post
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards illus
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted’
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk Is 9d
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is. *
The Art op Wrestling, post Is. Hoyle’s Games, post 2/6
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.) Is 3d post
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted. Camille, Is 3d.'
Secret History of the Court of England, 1/6 post free"
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted!
Lovers Letter IVriter, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. I
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
How TO Bead Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d. ’
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted. Sappho Is.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted. ’
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
The Wife’s Handbook, Is 2d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus. Leather bound, niv price, 15s post paid’
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance. Is 3d.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s posted.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music complete), Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d posted.
Send for my Illustrated Big- Book
Catalogue—post free anywhere.
SIB ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chanee I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sutferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugrene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney
Sending, mention this paper.
OF INTEREST to MEN
•QEAR SIR, —I have been cured of weakness and De-
bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no chargi
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHURSI,
Pi *» street, Sydney.
InDIGEjTIO/N
r i /*4ci/)itys l
fJVerVovs -j&
headache
MK>UT V
PILLS.
F° R GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
For Asthmatic people who suiter from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault’s Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
GRIMAULT & Co., Paris. Sold by all Cliemi.-t*.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstre & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Trumans NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizss, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.l3.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by PoingDicstre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all 1
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
Health,
Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
RI CORDS
c£ of U f
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In oases of 12s. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope
Agents for Australasia— PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St.,
Mei bourne ; Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
F. H. Fanning & Co., 16 O’Ccnnell St., Sydney.
iITT^
1
T
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
Sand Head Noises, no matter of
Show long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable,
Worn months without removal,
Explanatory Pamphlet Free. •
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collies St.j Melbourne.


66
:y
Mop
oo
©o o ©
RDWN
Wh
Acute Dyspepsia.
“Clements Tonic Restored
all my Strength and Vigor.’’
The Case of IVJrs. K WATKINS.
(by otjr reporter.)
There is a period in every person’s life,
particularly when in sorrow, that the sym-
pathy of a friend in need is greatly appre-
ciated, and although it is difficult to con-
jecture how many hearts may be gladdened
by the news appearing below, it is safe to
remark that Mrs Rachael Watkins, of
Grosvenor-street, Woollahra, was actuated
by the best of motives in saying :
“My health was in such an unsatisfac-
tory state some time ago that I could not
en j°y life. Every day I got up with a
splitting headache which made me feel sad
and wretched from morning till night, and,
owing to the taste I had, I felt so sick that
I could not touch any breakfast. My tongue
was dry and my throat was so parched that
I was constantly drinking water, yet the
thirst from which I suffered still remained.
Sometimes midday went by and still I did
not feel hungry, but as sure as I did take a
little food I paid dearly for it afterwards.”
“In what way, Mrs. Watkins ? ” enquired
the pressman.
“I used to feel ill all over me, especially
if there happened to be a little salt in my
food, which had the effect of making my
mouth and throat so much ir*flamed that it
was painful for me to swallow anything;
but the stomach seemed to be the worst
part, as it was distended with wind
which came from the food which had not
digested, and the cramping pains inside
were simply horrible. Windy spasms often
caused me to get up in the middle of the
night and walk the floor in agony, for it
was more than I could do to lie there quietly
and suffer such frightful torture. What-
ever I had eaten always repeated, but it
would not come up, much as I would have
liked it to, as then I would have felt a
little easier.”
“ How long had you suffered in this
way ? ”
“I was very ill for twelve months.
Everything went wrong, even my chest
being painful with a heavy sensation which
almost stifled me. Many a time I tried to
vomit, thinking that if I could only do so I
would be much relieved, but the lump in
my chest seemed to be a fixture, and fre-
quently made me feel as if I were taking
my last breath, the trouble in breathing
was so great. I became so terrified that I
might suffocate whilst in bed that I used to
prop myself up with pillows, and, notwith- |
standing the fact that I always felt weak
and worn out, I could not sleep when I did
retire, being very restless till about two or
three o’clock in the morning. When I
ought to have been asleep was the only
part of the twenty-four hours that I seemed
to liven up a bit, but it was very unnatural
for me to be so fidgety, and my system was
drained of all its vital force on that account.
•*■*■*• “id fall asleep I began dreaming, and
when I woke up I tried to recollect what I
had been dreaming about, but my memory
was so defective that I could not recall any-
thing to mind v Scarcely an hour passed
without some annoyance being caused by
sharp pains between my shoulders, and es-
pecially under my left shoulder-blade, and
my legs ached so much that after standing a
little while the aches developed into dis
tinct pains. Across my loins the aches
were really terrible. I used to think they
came through sitting down so mu h, but I
found when I walked the pains were still
more severe.. The least effort on my part
resulted in giddiness coming on, so I had to
be very careful how I went about, particu-
larly as my eyes were often so affected that
I could scatc% see out of them. If I '
stooped to pick up anything from the floor
I felt half-dazed for a while, my head reel-
ing awfully, and small black specks dancing
all round. Not only did I lose all my
strength, but my nervous system was quite
unstrung.”
“I believe you consulted a doctor, Mrs.
Watkins. What did he say your complaint
was ? ”
“My doctor said I was suffering from
acute indigestion, and he treated me accord-
but to my intense dismay I could
see I had no hope of recovering under his
treatment, as the medicines he prescribed
did not have any good effect. In my sor-
rowful condition I lost heart completely. I
did not know what to do, especially as I had
got so much more feeble- that on many oc-
casions I had to lie down in a state of ex-
haustion the whole of the day. It looked
to me as though my remaining days were
to be spent in misery, from which there was
no escape ; but I thought I ought to try
everything at my disposal, so I started doc-
toring myself with advertised medicines,
and when I had taken enough of them to
base an opinion upon, I was forced to con-
clude that my afflictions were incurable.
As those medicines were also useless I
thought, in my desperation, that everything
else was the same, but a lady friend spoke
so favourably about Clements Tonic that I
could not help buying some.”
“ Did you find it acting as your friend,
said it would ? ”
“Yes, thank God ! her advice was not
misleading, for Clements Tonic had precisely
the effect which I was told it would have,
although my condition was so low that it
took a little time to make headway. Once
Clements Tonic got my maladies on the
move, however, it shifted them with great
despatch. I started by picking up my ap-
petite and getting an occasional sound
night’s rest; then, when my head was free
from pain, I slept tranquilly right through
every night, and the aches left my limbs by
degrees. I considered this a great amount
of success for Clements Tonic to achieve,
taking into account the repeated failures I
had met with, so I got more of it as it was
required, and I shall never regret that I
stuck steadfastly 'to the same remedy, to
which there was nothing to compare for so
restoring my internal organs to a healthy
state that my food digested properly. My
vision became clear, the distention of and
pains in my stomach did not occur again,
and the stifling sensations left my chest.
To put it briefly, I was relieved of every
pain which had made my life a martyrdom,
besides having my nervousness quite
abolished, and you may d- pend I was de-
voutly thankful to Clements Tonic for bring-
ing back all my strength and vigor. In
every respect I was like a new woman, for
I had suffered from rheumatism close on
five years, and Clements Tonic was the only
medicine which gave me relief. My feet
and nearly all the joints in my body had
been assailed by severe rheumatic pains, but
Clements Tonic found its way to those parts
and gradually diminished my tortures. In
all cases of sickness I recommend to my
friends the use of Clements Tonic, and you
may publish these remarks in any way you
desire. ”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Rachael Watkins, of Grosvenor-street,
Woollahra, Sydney, in the State of New
South Wales, Commonwealth of Australia,
do solemnly and sincerely declare that I
have carefully read the annexed document,
consisting of four folios, and consecutively numbered
from one to four, and that it contains and is a true
and faithful account of my iliness and cure by
Clements Tonic ; and also contains my full permis-
sion to publish in any way my statements— which
I give voluntarily, without receiving any pay-
ment ; and I make this solemn declaration con-
scientiously believing the same to be true, and by
virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Waverley, this twelfth
day of April, one thousand nine hundred and two,
before me, v
J. L. DALE, J.P.
And Other Itching, Burning,
Scaly Eruptions with
Loss of Hair.
Speedy Cure Treatment.
Bathe the affected parts with Hot Water and Cuticura Soap, to
cleanse the surface of crusts and scales, and soften the thickened
cuticle. Dry, without hard rubbing, and apply Cuticura Ointment
freely, to allay itching, irritation, and inflammation, and soothe and
heal, and lastly take Cuticura Resolvent Pills, to cool and cleanse the
blood. A single set is often sufficient to cure the most torturing, dis-
figuring, itching, burning, scaly, pimply humours, eczemas, rashes*
irritations, and chafings, with loss of hair, when all else fails.
The agonizing itching and burning of the skin, as in eczema; the fright-
ful scaling, as in psoriasis; the loss of hair and crusting of the-scalp as in
seal led head; the facial disfigurement, as in pimples and ringworm* the
awful suffering of infants and the anxiety of worn-out parents, as in milk
crust, tetter, and salt rheum, all demand a remedy of almost superhuman
virtues to successfully cope with them. Such are the Cuticura remedies
the purest, sweetest, most speedy and economical curatives for the skin*
scalp, and blood ever compounded. Mothers are their warmest friends. ’■
Millions of Women UseCuticura Soap
Assisted by Cuticura Ointment for preserving, purifying, and beautify- 1
mg the skin, for cleansing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the
stopping of falling hair, for softening, whitening, and soothing red rough '
and sore hands, for baby rashes and chafings, in the form of baths for
annoying irritations and inflammations of women, or too free or offensive'
perspiration, in the form of washes for ulcerative weaknesses, and many!
sanative, antiseptic purposes which readily suggest themselves, as well asl
for all the purposes of the toilet, bath, and nursery.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT PILLS
(Chocolate Coated) are a new, tasteless,
odourless, economical substitute for the cele-
bi cited liquid Cuticura Resolvent, as ■well as for all other blood purifiers and humour
cures. Put up in screw-cap pocket vials, containing 60 doses.
tw£ C o 7 B 4 ME . DI S S are sold throughout the world. Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co., Sydney. British
Coßp t% Boston French Depot: 5 Rue de la Paix, Paris. Pottkb Luuq and Chism.
AERTEX CELLULAR
Cellular Dress Shirt*
Fitted best Belfast Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 0.8. or 0.F., one stud.
Cellular Cotton Body—
-6s 6d to 8s 6d
Cellular Lisle Body—
-9s 6d and 10s 6d
Cellular Short-Front Shirt
for every-day wear.
Open behind, 2in. linen wrists—
-5s 6d, 6s 6d.
Open front or behind, square
cuffs— 6s 6d, 7s 6d
SHIRTS
Cellular Tennis Shirt*
With Collar and Pocket. The most
comfortable for all out-door sports
of all kinds. A great variety of
patterns stocked.
Plain Colors, 4s. 6d. to 7s. 6d.
Fancy Designs, 7s. 6d. to 11s. 6d.
rff
vM\ Mil
Cellular Day Shirts*
Silk neckbands and soft wrists.
White and Self Colors, 4s to 7s 6d
Fancy Designs, 7s 6d to 9s 6d.
Cellular Neglige Shirts,
Soft fronts of plain or pleated
Cellular Cloth; wrists, French
Print, Linen, or Cellular. Recom-
mended for Golf, Cycling, &c.
White body, 7s 6d; colored, 8s 9d
Aertex Cellular Fabric is the ideal form of body covering, possessing all the necessary
hygienic qualities, and being also most comfortable and of attractive appearance, and for those
reasons is recommended by the Medical Faculty wherever introduced.
Illustrated Catalogues, Samples, etc., post free on application.
DAVID BRA HAM & CO.,
73 and 75 KINO STREET,
Sole Agents in N.S.W. SYDNEY.
DRUNK'S*
Absolutely Conquered in 20 Days.
<B° See my proposition to the Government.
November Bth, igoi, wherein I agree to
accept ioo Test Cases, and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and rehaWe remedy, Home treatment
v hin the reach of all. No restrictions, no
hypodermic injections. Full particulars free.
W. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Bn*.,
68 Russell St., Melbourne.
a
EVERY MAN E
SUFFERING from DEBILITY and WEAKNESS should
« send for a valuable Pamphlet explaining how all
Nervous and Organic Derangements may be success-
fully treated withoutstomachmedication. Themethod
is easy and pleasant, and will effect a perfect and per-
manent cure. Sent in a plain sealed envelope free of
charge. E. NORTON, 59 &60 Chancery Lane, London
2J Eno. Over 30 years’ continuous success. ’
BLOW FLIES.
The ONLY destroyer—The 11 buzz”
Window Trap, with Paultfinff'o
l "* iaA4


t
fir
11
AARON’S
Exchange Hotel Co.,
SYDNEY.
The system of paying for Room only and
Meals as required is adopted here.
£3 3s. per Week
9s. per Day
GORDON MARE, Secretary,
W. W. AIKEN, Manager,
28 Years in the Establishment.
WATCHES at Reduced Prices
EVERY WATCH GUARANTEED. POST FREE. SEND FOR OUR CATALOGUE.
Gent.’s
Nickel Keyless, open face, 10/-, for 7/6
Oxidised „ open face, 12/6, for 10/-
Silver „ double case, 25/-, for 21/-
Gold „ double case, £6 10s, for £5 108
Ladies’
Nickel Keyless, open face, 20/-, for 16/6
Oxidised „ open face, 12/6, for 10/6
Silver ~ doable case, 25/-, for 21/-
Gold ~ double case, 70/-, for 60/-
THE ABOVE PRICES ARE FOR FULL SIZE WATCHES.
Our Only Australian Address —
90 KINC ST., SYDNEY
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
Beware of
Cheap
Grain Spirits
Flavored
and
Colored
to
Imitate
Cognac
Brandy.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
KI 4 -
ifS
■w
mi
1
%
a
So*?
a
as
AJ
£93
£
>:<
a
I
//
r A
*55
H
'r>
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments may be
secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards.
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted on applica
tion to The Manager.
THE
‘PLUM’
THE
* PLUM’
/'Tj.ENTLEMEN. —This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
ejige that is required to ensure an easy shave,, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7a Oil.
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, Od cake.
Price /Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 2la
l Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30a.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part op the World.
|3P“ Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney
MACHINERY
MERCHANTS,
WHOLESALE IRONMONGERS,
And Importers of
Engines, Boilers, Pumps, Wood-
working Machines, Engineers’
Supplies, Blacksmith and
Coachbuilders’ Requisites, Pipes
and Fittings, Boiler Tubes, Gun
Metal and Brassware for Steam 1
and Water, Household and
Builders’ Ironmongery, Agri-
cultural Implements, Horse
Gears, Chaff Cutters, &c.
'A
t
■ZYr,
SMELLIE&C
rliAcHifftay Store. i
Brisb/iKe,. J
Bulk Stokjl, .
VALLP.V
SMELLIE&CO
v BRISBANE.
North Queensland Warehouse:
Stanley & Sturt Sts., Townsville.
Also at
New Broad St. House, London, E.C.
AGENTS FOR
ROBEY & CO., Portable
Steam Engines.
W. B. HAIGH & CO., Saw-
mill Machinery.
GWYNNE’S Centrifugal Pumps
PEARN’S Manchester Steam
Pumps.
DUPLEX Steam Pumps.
SCOTT’S Steel Mining Ropes.
FRANK VIAL & SON Leather
Belting.
WAUKEGAN Barb Wire.
PLANET JR. Implements.
AER MOTOR Windmills.
KEROSENE OIL ENGINES.
To Smokers of High Class Mixture.
■ Jgggjwr."' *1
WILLS 8 TICE-REGAL MIXTURE
A Choice Blend of High Class and Carefully Selected TOBACCO.
Packed only in patent air-tight tins.
Manufactured in two grades—Medium and Full. Price, Is. per 2oz. Tin.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Voii. 23. No. 1188.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 32. 1902.
Price 6d
THE GREAT PERILS OF THE DEEP.
(With Apologies to Fritz Hegenbart.)
The chief mortality in many memorable shipwrecks has been caused by insufficiently-provisioned boats. Perhaps as many passengers die by hunger and thirst as by drowning.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
** Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS AFTER
Ist NOVEMBER , 1902
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... El 6 0
Half-yearly ... . ... ... 913 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can hare Tub Bulletin posted
regularly to you eoery week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number , is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the " Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 8000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Neivspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But roe
desire those sending ME. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To A inn tours in JtlaeJe and lrhite.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea , but unfitted for direct reproduction
-—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies o r The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Oordon and
Gotch, Ludjale Circus.
South Africa — Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown ;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal; Solomon
and Wilson, « llout St., Caoetown ; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
Ceylon. — Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver.- Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
B.C.
llong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 23 Queens Road, Hong
Kong.
China .—Brewer and Co., 31 Wanking Road, Shanghai.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1902.
An Australian Navy.
Premier Barton went to England as a
genial, easy-going, circular man of few defi-
nite opinions, and with a fatal tendency to
absorb the opinions of stronger men than
himself. His colleague, John Forrest,
went there as a large, aggressive-looking
man with little force behind his aggressive-
ness, and with a fatal tendency to absorb
the opinion of oilier and more adroit men
t ban himself. They have both returned as
enthusiastic converts, so far as military and
naval matters go, to imperial ideas. By
leason of the late war, military and naval
considerations, and bloodsliedding considera-
tions generally, were uppermost in England
at the time of the Barton-Forrest visit.
These were the points on which British
political leaders would breathe most assidu-
ously into the ears of their visitors. And
with their fatal gift of believing the man who
spoke last, the two Federal Ministers have
come back in a state of great excitement on
these points—especially the naval point.
* • * •
Australia’s naval problem is this : It can
only be attacked by sea. All its important
cities and most of its wealth are on the sea-
board. So is its best coal supply. Lying
conveniently open to a naval attack are
Perth, Albany, Adelaide, Hobart, Mel-
bourne, Sydney, Newcastle, Brisbane, Towns-
ville, and other Queensland ports, and Port
Darwin. An enemy that occupied Sydney
or Melbourne for a few hours could cut the
country’s principal railway connections.-
Also, a very casual attack on several of the
places enumerated would enable an enemy to
cut Australia’s cable connections. Even if the
railway connections were not cut—supposing
the enemy appeared and began doing
damage and wrong to the British empire
anywhere north of Rockhampton, and from
there all round the north and west and south
coast to Adelaide, or anywhere off Tasmania,
it would be difficult for the eastern States to
send assistance if the sea were wholly at the
command of the enemy. In time of war,
supposing Australia had no naval defence
force at hand, two or three hostile cruisers
which had dodged the British fleet could
rage up and down the coast much as they
pleased. Australia can't spare the money
to adequately fortify all its ports; and
though it might man a fleet that could knock
out any enemy likely to appear, it could
hardly maintain permanently an adequate
force for that purpose at each of a dozen
places—say Hobart, Launceston, Fremantle,
Albany, Port Adelaide, Queenscliff, Sydney
Heads, Newcastle, the entrance of the
Brisbane River, Townsville, Cairns, Cook-
town, Thursday Island, and Port Darwin—
which are liable to attack. That would be a
large order.
• * • •
At present the Commonwealth pays
£105,000 a year for the use of a small
British squadron, which is supposed also to
wander round Maoriland, Fiji, and half the
South Pacific. Australia has no control
whatever over this squadron, but the under-
standing is that, if attack really comes, it
will be found somewhere within these very
wide limits, and ready to do its duty. But
the limits are too wide for the squadron to
be anything like a reasonable security, and
at least one Admiral frankly informed this
country that if war really eventuated the
squadron would probably make for the seat
of hostilities regardless of the agreement, and
leave Australia at the mercy of any casual
cruisers which managed, on the wide ocean, to
dodge the British vessels. Obviously, under
these conditions, it is time for the Common-
wealth to give up subsidising this unreliable
fleet and to spend £300,000 or £500,000 a
year on a fleet of its own—one that will bo
here when wanted, and which should be
strong enough to cope with at least a few
casual cruisers. And the other alternative —
the one that Chamberlain proposes and
which is enthusiastically barracked for by
Barton and Forrest —is that Australia
should double its contribution, and should
still have no control over the naval squadron,
and that the promise that the said squadron
shall stay here to defend Australia in time of
war should be wholly withdrawn. Australia, it
is proposed, shall pay for the squadron, shall
have it to look at in peace time, and shall be
left to take its chance in time of war while
its fleet goes away to join the rest of the
British forces.
• • * •
Premier Barton, repeating, parrot-fashion,
the lesson that has been poured into him by
his mentor, Chamberlain, says it is grossly
selfish for us to expect to have the defence
squadron we pay for to defend us in war-
time ; that it is necessary to defend trade
routes—not fixed points; and that war
doesn’t consist in leaving detached forces to
protect separate places, but in combining
the Imperial fleets into a mighty force that
will overwhelm the enemy in one stupendous
act, and end the war. It was by these large,
copious methods, he says, that the empire
was built, not by pettifogging defence
tactics. And if the enemy which became
involved in war with Britain, the greatest
naval Power on this globe, gathered all
his ships together to be overwhelmed
by the stupendous concentrated British
fleet, Barton’s very elementary ideas
would be feasible enough. But France,
for example, didn’t build its half-a-hundred
swift cruisers to be pounded to pieces in a
pitched battle by a vastly superior force.
Most of our probable enemies have their
ports fortified and reasonably able to take
care of themselves. They have their coast-
defence fleets to help defend those ports.
Their capitals, as a rule, are inland, and safe
from sea attack. And their fleets, not being
in search of any more Trafalgar, would
probably scatter over every sea, to sink
British merchantmen and bail up any British
ports which they found undefended. The
great concentrated British fleet that Barton
dreams of could wipe out the enemy if he
would keep together to be wiped. It
might bottle up a good part of his force in
his own harbors within the first day or two
of the war, if it had excellent management
or good luck, but no fleet from the Aus-
tralian station would be likely to arrive
in time to join in that operation. And even
then the cruisers which weren’t bottled up
would have to be reckoned with individually.
" * * * •
As for the stereotyped babble about the
necessity for defending trade routes instead
of fixed , points, there are trade routes all
round the Commonwealth coast which want
defending just as much as any others in the
Empire. There is more shipping belonging
to the Empire to defend between Perth and
Townsville than on most of the Empire’s
coasts, and it is as much worth defending as
any other. And there is other Imperial
property besides ships to be considered.
Australia, chiefly by reason of its very
cumbersome and obsolete banking sys-
tem, keeps more gold in its banks
(about £20,000,000, as a rule) in
proportion to population, than almost any
other country in the world. A few armed
cruisers, if they “held up” Sydney and
Melbourne while our fleet was away ready to
join in that great concentrated battle which
didn’t come off because the enemy wouldn’t
concentrate, could>exaet a ransom in good
British gold that would- amount to more
than all the plunder they would be likely to
get if they held possession of our trade route
to England for two years. After that blow
our British creditor would probably have to
weep for his interest ; at all events, it would
be mostly his money that would go. And if
these same cruisers raked the seas up and
down our coasts, they would be able to
destroy more shipping largely British-
owned —than they would find on the open
ocean in twelve months.
• • •
Britain, at all events, doesn’t propose to
adopt the policy that Premier Barton
thinks good enough for Australia. It main-
tains a very substantial Coast Defence
Squadron to protecta much smaller coast line
•jhan ours, and its shores have always, since
the days when the Dutch fleet rushed the
Thames, been guarded with all possible care
when an enemy of any fighting strength was
at sea. Britain has always realised that if
one of its principal coastal cities were bom-
barded while its last ship was away protect-
ing a twopenny coal brig from capture, it
would involve much more loss of money and
prestige than if the brig were allowed to slide,
and it has always been aware that the
English Channel is a trade route as well
worth protecting as any other. The Com-
monwealth stands for one-fourth of the
empire’s area, and about one-fourteenth of
its ivhite population, and for nearly
£400,000,000 of Britain’s invested capital,
and if that lot isn’t worth careful guarding,
The Bulletin doesn’t envy Premier
Barton his opinion of the relative values of
things.
• • • *
The proposal which Premier Barton
denounces as short-sighted and selfish is
just this: It is suggested by those who
advocate an Australian-owned navy that this
country should create and maintain a fleet
which may contrive to protect, "from such
chances of war as are likely to come our
way, one-fourth of the area of the Empire ;
nearly £400,000,0000f British capital; and the
valuable British shipping in our ports and on
our coasts. Also, as the want of sailors and
officers is the chief weakness of the British
navy, it is suggested that we should train our
own sailors and officers, and thereby greatly
strengthen the empire’s forces. Britain’s
battle-ships will probably account for the
battle-ships of the enemy ; the danger to the
outlying parts of the empire lies in swift
cruisers, ready to bombard good, solid British
investments, and knock the roof off the
British absentee's property, and sink his
ships, and exact as ransom the money that
is required to pay his interest. The pro-
posal to relieve Britain of the burden of
defending an immense mass of its own pro-
perty against this danger, strikes Barton
and Forrest aft gross selfishness. The real
difficulty lies in the selfish British tradition
that the fleet should be wholly British ; that
all the titles, dignity, salary, glory, gold
lace, millinery and cocked hat should belong
to one little corner of the empire ; that
it should monopolise the “ Rule Britan-
nia ” and “ Sons of the Sea,” and other
marine traditions ; that it should periodi-
cally remind “the colonies” of the debt
they owe to Britain for defending them, and
at the same time hint that their conduct is
selfish and little short of treasonable when
they propose to try if they can defend them-
selves. At the same time it informs Aus-
tralia that it won’t necessarily be responsible
for the defence of this country and all the
British property in it—that the defence fleet
we partly pay for will probably leave for
parts unknown when it is wanted. This
threatened absence of protection (for us and
the British property), coupled with the fact
that British writers are periodically lost in
astonishment at Britain’s generosity in pro-
tecting us, and the strong objection raised
to our attempting to protect ourselves, make
up a complicated situation. Australia thinks
of cutting the knot by getting measured for
its own cocked hat.
Not Authorised to Interfere.
The great Jenkins Iscariot scheme, by which it
is proposed to give away to a syndicate Ninety
Million Acres of land and all minerals therein, in
consideration of the syndicate completing, for its
own sole profit, a narrow-gauge railway across
Australia, and running one slow train per week,
has been brought under the notice of the Premier of
Australia. Very little good resulted. Some un-
wise person asked him if he proposed to interfere
with this utterly villainous project, whereby
an ex-Yankee book-agent intends to give away to
foreigners an area equal to two out of the six
States of the Commonwealth, and something over;
but the question was unfortunately put in a
shape which enabled Premier Barton to simply
reply that the matter wasn’t in his jurisdiction.
The Constitution, he said, didn’t authorise him to
interfere with the railway construction policy of
any State. If he attempted to point out to
Jenkins and his majority the evils of the pro-
posed job he would be very rightly told by
Jenkins to attend to his own business. By
assuming this attitude Premier Barton avoided
any expression of his own views on the most im-
portant matter that is just now before Australia —
a matter that concerns all Australia, and concerns
it more than a dozen coronations and 25,0.00 bursts
of loyalty. Has Premier Barton any views on
the subject ?
• * * *
Of course the Constitution doesn’t authorise
the Premier of Australia to remonstrate with
Jenkins and Co. about their proposed land-
grant transaction. But the Constitution does
authorise him to ask the Australian Parlia-
ment to take over the Northern Territory
with its assets and liabilities, provided an
agreement can be arrived at with S.A. in the
matter. If Premier Barton is prepared to see
Premier Jenkins, and arrange (provided Jenkins
is agreeable) terms for the cession of the Territory,
and if he promises that these terms will be laid
before the Australian Parliament immediately it
re-assembles and that the Barton Cabinet will
stand or fall by them, then he may fairly ask
Jenkins to hang up the Ninety Million Acres
steal and to alienate no more land in the Territory
till the measure is accepted or rejected. In that
way the Constitution does authorise Mr. Barton
to interfere, and Australia badly desires to know
if he proposes to interfere, or if he doesn’t.
Furthermore, even if the Jenkins Ministry
refuses to consider any terms for the surrender of
the Northern Territory, the Ninety Million Acres
steal depends wholly on the connivance of the
Australian Parliament, which, just now, means
the connivance of the Barton Government.. The
beginning, middle and end of the great job is the
promise of ten years’ exemption from taxation,
and that promise isn’t worth a rush unless it is
ratified by the Australian Parliament. Under
the Constitution the latter body has power to
make the land-tax a Federal impost, and to
make it uniform all over the Commonwealth.
It may take over the State debts and apply
the land-tax towards payment of the interest
and sinking fund, or take over the Educa-
tion Departments and pay the cost out of the
land-tax money, or apply the proceeds in any way
it pleases—but its power to levy the tax is
beyond dispute. It may so graduate the
land-tax, with a view to breaking up big estates,
that no syndicate could afford to hold a Ninety
Million Acres steal —that it would cost more than
it would be worth. The Australian Parliament
has also power to levy a heavy absentee tax, an
income tax, and other imposts. No promise that
any subordinate Jenkins can make to any syndi-
cate can diminish these powers in the least. And
what Australia desires to know is whether the
Barton Government proposes to exercise these
powers? Also, if it doesn’t propose to exercise
them, will it at least remind Jenkins that they
exist and may be exercised by the next Ministry ?
Further, if Jenkins comes to it with a demand
that it will ratify his, at present, useless promise
of ten years’ exemption from taxes, will it tell
Jenkins to go to a place where his Ninety Million
Acres Steal Bill would take fire immediately ?
• • • •
Even this is not all. The Australian Parlia-
ment is to appoint an inter-State Commission
with large powers of dealing with railway rates,
and it would be interesting to know if Premier
Barton has any idea about hurrying on with the
appointment of that Commission. It has power
to negotiate with the States for taking over the
railways and the business of railway construction
bodily, and Premier Barton’s views on that
matter would also be worth hearing. He may
also suggest that the Australian Parliament, pro-
vided the Territory is handed over, will under-
take the construction of the transcontinental
line itself—in fact, there are at least half-a-
dozen points on which the Constitution fully
authorises the Australian Premier to speak
to Jenkins about the Ninety Million Acres
job, even though it may not authorise him to tell
Jenkins, in a crude fashion, that he is running
his State on foolish and politically dishonest prin-
ciples, and that he is a better book-fiend than
Premier. The questions that Australia really
desires Premier Barton to answer are these :
Does he approve of the Ninety Million Acres
steal ? If he does, is he going, so far as is
possible, to help it on, by asking the Australian
Parliament to undertake that it won’t use the
powers the Constitution gives it for blocking the
Jenkins iniquity, or is he simply going to lie low ?
If he doesn’t, is he going to ask the Australian
Parliament to use its undoubted powers under the
Constitution for blocking the Jenkins iniquity,
or is he going to drift ? Australia doesn’t want
Premier Barton to step outside the Constitution,
but it has a right to ask if he proposes to loaf
uselessly inside the Constitution, or to be reason-
ably active there.
■n 9 * *
No amount of apathy can justify the theory that
Jenkins’ Ninety Million Acres job is a matter of
purely South Australian concern. The proposed
private railway is to constitute the shortest route
to Europe and Asia. It is to carry the people of
all Australia. It is to form the only means by
which Australian troops can get to the defence of
Port Darwin in case of need. It is to be the most
important and the most cosmopolitan road in
Australia—the only way across the continent, and
the only access to the furthest interior. If Aus-
tralia isn’t interested in that work, what is it
interested in ?
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Preferential Tariff Lunacy—Again.
The publication of the complete trade returns of
the Commonwealth for 1901 throws a still more
dismal light upon Premier “Toby” Barton’s
scheme for granting a trade preference to the
United Kingdom. At the recent Conference in
London the thin, hungry man and the plump,
happy, comfortable man met, and the person who
looked like a tall vulture got the best of the deal.
His circular victim came away pledged to a
scheme whereby the Commonwealth is to reduce
its duties on goods imported from Britain so as to
induce Australia to buy more from Britain than
it does now, while there is to be no corresponding
move to induce Britain to buy more from Aus-
tralia 1 And it is just here that the trade statis-
tics come in. For the last two years they are as
follows:
Common- Common- Balance Balance
wealth’s wealth’s in favor of against
Purchases from Sales to Common- Common-
wealth. wealth.
Britain. Britain.
1900 £25,363,346 £25,215,911 £147,435
1901 25,237,032 25,194,923 42,109
Maoriland. Maoriland.
1900 1,904,453 1,389,351 515,102
1901 1,814,516 1,457,641 356,875
Other Other
Countries. Countries.
1900 14,120,145 19,352,594 £5,232,449
1901 15,382,299 23,032,945 7,650,646
To summarise the case again :
Australia already buys more from the United Kingdom
than the United Kingdom buys from Australia. This
is saying nothing of the fact that very much of what
Britain takes from us is gold, which any other country
would take as readily. For every £1 worth of merchan-
dise which we buy from Britain, that country buys only
about 12s. worth in return.
Under these circumstances Chamberlain’s proposal
that we should take special measures to cause us to buy
still more from Britain, when what is really required is
an arrangement whereby Britain will buy more from us,
is worthy of a three-card shark.
Australia, being a country with a huge foreign debt,
requires to export about £13,000,000 worth per annum
more than it imports in order that the balance may cover
the interest bill due to the British creditor. Therefore it
must cultivate countries like France, Germany and
Belgium, which buy largely from it, not countries like
Britain and Maoriland, which want to sell much to it and
buy little in return.
So far as buying our merchandise is concerned (anyone
will take our gold), foreign countries are vastly more im-
portant to us than Great Britain or Maoriland is. The
surplus of exports, which enables us to pay even a portion
of our interest out of our own resources, arises wholly out
of our trade with countries other than these two.
If we buy much more from Britain than we do, we
won’t be able to pay Bull his interest, and he will grow
nasty.
If we give special advantages to our bad customer
(Bull) and thereby aggravate our good foreign customer,
and he shuts out our goods by specially heavy duties, and
thus destroys the business which alone keeps us in a state
of partial solvency, then we won’t be able to pay Bull his
interest, and he will become horrid. And by reason of
the immense growth of South American wool production


our foreign customers can afford to turn nasty if they get
sufficient provocation.
There was a time when a preferential tariff in
favor of Britain was feasible, but that time is long
past. Britain is a failing market, and foreign
countries are a vastly improving one. _ Britain
bought a shade less from us in 1901 than in 1900 ;
outside countries bought nearly £4,000,000 more.
In 1901 our trade with outside countries left a
balance of £7,650,646 with which to pacify our
Bull creditor. Any politician who proposes to
deliberately take measures to render us disagree-
able to the bird that lays a golden egg of that size,
and to aggravate it into laying on somebody else s
premises, is a most hopeless person.
+
The Lesson of the Elingfamite.
The Quiraing disaster, the narrow escape of the
Balmain, and the loss by starvation of several
passengers by the wrecked s.s. Elingamite, com-
bine to impress upon the public and the legis-
latures of Australia some very serious facts. The
first of these is that the ship-owner is by nature
and by education a simple little child with a vast
irresponsibility, who can learn nothing and do
nothing on his own account, and who must be
kept constantly in leading-strings. The second
is that, even when the ship owner may be
reasonably supposed to have some knowledge
of the precautions necessary to carry on his
business with the utmost possible amount of
safety, he will not take them, except under com-
pulsion. The law must watch the shipowner at
every turn, to correct on the one hand his guile-
less childishness, and on the other his disinclina-
tion to take any precautionary steps involving
expense. Mr. Sneddon, the owner of the
Quiraing and of the Balmain, was always quite
willing, it was accepted by the commission of
inquiry, to do anything he was asked in the way
of repairs. But he doesn’t seem to have known
enough to recognise the necessity of repairs him-
self ; he had to be told. The Quiraing went
down for some reason or other, and the
Balmain was only saved from the proba-
bility of going down by a strike of the
crew. In the Elingamite wreck many lives were
needlessly sacrificed under circumstances of
terrible torture, because the rafts and boats
were not fitted up and provisioned as they
should have been. Whether they had even
the equipment which the present utterly imper-
fect law decrees to be necessary is not at
the momnt certain; that point will probably
be settled by inquiry. But emphatically they
had not adequate equipment. The raft on which
eight perished miserably of starvation had no
food, no water, no proper sailing or rowing equip-
ment. Yet it would seem to be very easy to
provide every vessel with boat and raft accommo-
dation sufficient to carry off all on board in
case of disaster, and to provide each boat
and raft with sufficient water and food to
support life for at least a week, and with such
equipment as would make some sort of navigation
Eossible. Oars, sails, a compass, fresh water (to
e renewed weekly on the voyage), a supply of con-
centrated food in cans (carefully sealed, and
painted to guard against rust, inspected periodi-
cally, and renewed when necessary)—these should
be on every boat and raft of an ocean-going
steamer, and, with a little organisation and
expense, could be. But the shipowners will take
no precaution that the law does not force upon
him. A succession of disasters impresses the
point that it is high time for the law to do a little
forcing.
♦
The Civil Servant and The Sectarian.
The unfortunate civil servants of N.S.W. are just
now prostrate beneath the feet of the quarrelling
sectarians. They owe the position to the weak-
ness of Premier See. When those champion
canardists, the leaders of the Protestant Defence
Association, alleged that the Civil Service in
N.S.W. was over-run and dominated by the
Pope’s brigade, the See Government, perhaps
rightly, consented to a return being drawn
up showing the proportion which each religious
denomination had in the Civil Service. A
stronger Government would probably have treated
the P.D.A. people with the contempt which
people so reckless in their statements deserved ;
but the See Government, for obvious reasons,
cannot take up a dignified attitude of that sort on
a pinch : it is known to have held the candle for
so many devils that its silence might easily, and
with some shadow of reason, have been construed
into an admission that it was trimming the lamp
for the Scarlet Woman. Anyhow, the return was
prepared, and it showed that, instead of the R.C.’s
having an unfairly large share, they had an un-
fairly small share of Civil Service billets. The
matter ought to have ended right there. But the
P.D.A. still howled, and there came an echoing
chorus from the other side, which, having tasted
blood, wanted more. Now the N.S.W. Govt, is
committed to the inquisitorial and absolutely ob-
jectionable task of classifying individual civil
servants with their various salaries and religions.
Previous information as to the aggregate religions
of the Civil Service was got from the census
figures; possibly this will be derived from the
same source, though there is some hint of asking
individual officers to state their religious beliefs
for the sake of a special return to Parliament.
The whole business is in any case foolish, childish
and insulting to the officers of the Government,
who, if they have the chance offered them by a
direct question, should combine to put down their
religious belief as “ object to state.” Why should
S mith, of the Lands, have to announce to the public,
through Parliament, that he is an Anglican, and
getting £250 a year, and Jones, of the Works, a
Wesleyan at £270 a year, and Murphy, of the
Justice, a Presbyterian at £l5O, and Thomson, of
the Mines, a R.C. at £200? And is not Larkin,
who is really a heathen, but goes as an Anglican
or as a Roman Catholic, to save making a new
department in the census, seriously prejudiced by
being asked to either subscribe to a public hypo-
crisy, or make himself by candor the target of
sectarian malevolence or troublesome “ conver-
sion ” efforts ? For the census returns a citizen
may give information without fear, because those
returns are, so far as the individuals are concerned,
kept strictly secret. If that secresy is violated
now, or the civil servants are required to state
their religions afresh for a public return, it will be
big step back towards the dark days of the Test
Act in England.
■ ♦
The Irvine-Bent Disfranchisement
Scheme.
The new Reform Bill has made its appearance in
the Victorian Assembly. If it passes in its
entirety, one end of it will be the most valuable
idea Victoria has met with for many long years,
while the other end is the most grotesque job in
the way of reactionary legislation that has been
heard of since the days of the Dunoan Gillies
Premiership. The measure provides for cutting
down the Assembly to 56 members, and.the
House of Landlords to 28 ; for reducing the num
ber of paid Ministers to seven, and for making
every ratepayer eligible to sit in the House of
Landlords. In other words, it. is proposed to
make it a House of Landlords no longer, and
to destroy the property qualification which
has enabled a handful of insolent and
grasping old Tories to block all serious
efforts at progress. In addition to this, and by
way of another side to the picture, it is proposed
to disfranchise the public servants as far as con-
cerns the constituencies in which they reside, and
to give them two members of their own in the
Assembly and one in the Council. The idea, it is
frankly admitted, is to destroy their influence at
general elections. The public servants, in the
opinion of Bent and Irvine, can now turn the
scale in, probably, a dozen Assembly con-
stituencies, but by herding them away by them-
selves, and stealing away their rights as citizens
by cutting down their representation to far less
than their numbers entitle them to, the
Irvine-Bent Government proposes to make sure
that they will only command two Assembly con-
stituencies. Economy, says the Irvine-Bent
Government, is impossible till something of
this sort is done, and while economy con-
sists in trying to make up the deficit
by gross and shameful sweating of a single
class of the community, the statement may
prove true —though it certainly hasn’t proved
true up to now. The civil service vote didn’t
block the abolition of civil service pensions; it
didn’t block the heavy reductions in wages and
salaries made after the bursting of the boom ; and
it didn’t prevent the Irvine-Bent Government
from coming back with a huge majority for the
express and avowed purpose of cutting the civil
service to the bone. The very existence of the
Irvine-Bent Government and the Irvine-Bent
majority proves that the excuse given for the
partial disfranchisement of a great body of demo-
cratic voters is a lie, and that the proceeding is
merely a shady Tory conspiracy of the worst
kind. The civil service vote, according to the
Irvine-Bent Government, is steadily directed
to lever up civil service wages, therefore
the civil servant should be, as far as possible, dis-
franchised in the interests of economy. The land-
owning vote is also steadily directed to preventing
the imposition of a land-tax, therefore the land-
owning class should also, in the interests of
economy, be cut off from the general body of
electors and only allowed two members of its own.
Until this equally rational view of the case
occurs to Irvine and Bent it is fair to assume that
their only object is to disfranchise their political
opponents, and that they haven’t even the decency
to disguise their purpose. As a gross and shame-
ful sweater of the public service the Irvine-Bent
Government is something unique—as regards the
railway service in particular. The Vic. rail-
ways show a deficit because they are bur-
dened with a ridiculous debt incurred through
paying to a set of grasping landlords
absurdly high prices for land resumed for con-
struction purposes. They have also to pay
interest on the cost of abandoned railways,
built where there was no traffic, to placate the
same gang of greedy landlords. They are plun-
dered wholesale by being made to carry the pro-
duce of the avaricious farmer-sweater in the rich
parts of the State at absurdly low rates. They are
just now expected to pay a huge portion of the
State’s charitable expenditure; the aid given to
distressed maliee selectors by the free carriage of
stock is all charged to them. Also, they are ex-
pected to pay full interest on loans raised by by-
gone Tory incapables at absurdly high rates. All
these _ things Bent proposes to make good by
sweating—gross, shameful, hog-like sweating—of
the railway employees; and to facilitate that
sweating it is proposed to deprive the oppressed
class of a large proportion of its voting power.
The only good feature in the case is that the
House of Landlords may pass the Bill for the sake
of this bad feature in its character, where it would
be otherwise rejected. A scheme for disfranchising
anybody appeals to the Landlords.
The Pathetic Bushrangers of Ej'^bram.
Melbourne Argus, in advocating the scheme for
irrigating the Eastern Maliee, lately proceeded to
show how irrigation had helped the Rodney land-
owners. Be it remembered that Kyabram, where
the alleged “Reform” movement originated, is
in the very centre of the Rodney Irrigation Trust,
and is where Sammy Lancaster, M.L.A., Ben
Goddard, and other cow-thumpers, vegetate.
Ouly a year or two back the Rodney Irrigation
Trust defaulted in its interest payments, and
“pleaded poverty” so hard and so plaintively
that the State wiped off nearly £300,000 of its
indebtedness, and shoved the interest-burden on
the shoulders of the city workers, and the
borrowed-capital burden on to those of posterity.
This Rodney Irrigation Trust, according to the
Argus, comprises some 260,000 acres of rich Goul-
burn Valley land, mostly in farms of from 300 to
600 acres. “ Around Kyabram and Mooroopna
the landowners cut their holdings up into
blocks of 10 to 50 acres for fruit-growing,
and settled upon these are thriving popula-
tions, engaged in a system of intense cultivation,
which beautified their homes, enriched them,
enormously increased and diversified the field for
labor, substantially benefited the inland towns,
and increased the freight income of the railways.”
Then the journal of “reform” goes into details:
“There have been a number of farn jrs like
Messrs. Pagan, Bray, Samuel and John Lan-
caster, who have demonstrated, by the number
of fat cattle and sheep they have sent to market,
the regularity of their milk supply to the
creameries, and the consistency of their cereal
yields, that irrigation will pay well. . . . There
are over 600 individual irrigators on the books of
the 1 rust, and the demand for water has this year
been so great it cannot be met.” Irrigation,
scientifically applied, pays well! Of course ; and
the Kyabram landowners, who have, many of
them, made fortunes out of it, can well afford to
pay at least the interest on the irrigation outlay,
instead of crawling to the State and looting the
Treasury like a lot of stone-broke bushrangers.
The best thing Premier Irvine has promised so
far is that he will make Kyabram pay up its
water arrears.
Some More Dill Mackyisms.
The N.S.W. “Protestant Defence Association”
with its Woolls Rutledge and its Dill Macky
and its other screamers, grows hysterical in its
declining years. Few bodies in Australasia are
so wild in their statements, or so loose in their
facts, or so hot and excited and ungentlemanly
when bowled out, or so badly wrecked in the
collar through undue perspiration. For a number
of months the Woolls Rutledge and Dill Macky
crowd raged loosely and at large and on no visible
evidence, about the overwhelming proportion of
Roman Catholics in N.S.W. public service, till at
last the usual demand for a Parliamentary return
was made. The return was sufficiently easv to
compile—a census was taken last year, and
from that source alone, if no other record
were available, the facts could be ascer-
tained in one or two days if a reasonable
number of clerks were put on to look up the infor-
mation. The return showed that R.C.’s, in pro-
portion to population, were rather less numerous
in the public service than other sects, and,
considering how enormously the Protestant
element has preponderated in N.S.W. Minis-
tries for many years past, it would have been
strange had the reverse been the case. In-
cidentally it was also mentioned in Parliament
that certain wild Protestant Association state-
ments about battered pugilist Mick Dooley re-
ceiving £4OO a year from the public service, and
ex-pugilist Larry Foley being a regular public
official of high standing, were silly lies; Mick
Dooley earned 7s. a day by hard toil, the
department not having seen its way to de-
duct Is. off him because of his religion, while
Larry Foley had an occasional billet at
overseering the knocking-down of buildings. But
this lamentable showing-up only moved the Dill
Macky and Woolls Rutledge crowd to fresh fury,
and the latter gentleman breathed forth the 39
Articles and brimstone thus at a recent Sydney
Town Hall meeting:
We have recently been confronted by statistics as to the
proportion of Roman Catholics in the public service, and
let me say, and I do not care what opinion may be held
respecting the assertion, that these statistics will only be
believed by those who wish them to be so. (Cheers.) The
fact is that the Government has gone to extraordinary
trouble, notwithstanding that there is a resolution of Par-
liament in existence that the religious beliefs of the people
entering the public service shall not be inquired into. The
Government has gone in a roundabout way, and, I may
say, in a secret fashion, to discover what is supposed to
be the religious beliefs of public servants, and this return
is the result. If the Government—and I throw out
the challenge—will appoint a committee—(cheers)—con-
sisting of those who may be selected by even the Govern-
ment and those who may be selected by somebody else,
and it makes an impartial and full investigation into all
the departments of the public service, and, if the result
is what the Government says it is, we will own up like
men. (Cheers.) Until such an inquiry and investigation
is held, so that everybody may say that the thing is fairly
done, that table of statistics will never be believed by the
people of this State. (Loud cheering.) lam sorry that
the Government has gone out of its way to procure such
a return that has been flouted before the Protestant com-
munity with the words, “ Now they have got it they do
not like it.” Who are “ they,” I wonder? If the Govern-
ment of this country is going to constitute itself the
Roman Catholic Defence Association, let us know it.
(Great applause.) The Protestant Defence Association
has distinctly, by Dr. Dill Macky, upon this platform,
only a month ago, declared that this is not a party
organisation, but, if the Government is going to drive
the Protestant Defence Association into opposition, let it
be understood. (Cheers.) If it does, it must be prepared
to pay the penalty.
This truly comical outpouring moves the writer
(who was brought up as a Baptist, and left that
sect because water without any whisky in it didn’t
agree with him, and who is now nothing in
particular) to ask Woolls Rutledge these few
questions:—
Is the Government return less reliable than the
bare assertion of the wild-eyed gang which furnished the
Mick Dooley lie ?
If the Dill-Macky crowd didn’t want the information
supplied by Parliament, why did it demand the infor-
mation ?
_lf it is wrong to inquire into the religious beliefs of
civil servants, why did it inquire into Mick Dooley’s
belief (with the additional insult of inquiring into his
pa.v), and the beliefs of all the other civil servants, by
starting the row ?
If it is wrong to inquire into the beliefs of public ser-
vants, why does it demand an inquiry now ?
Why didn’t it object to the proposed return when it
was first asked for, and not reserve its objections till the
document arrived and bowled it out ?
< How is the supplying in the ordinary way, of informa-
tion that is asked for publicly in Parliament, and howled
for publicly on a dozen platforms by an influential gather-
ing of bigots, “secret” or “roundabout” or “extra-
ordinary ” ?
What kind of a row about preventing the light of
Terewth shining in on the dark places of iniquity would
the Macky and Rutledge crowd have made if the
Government had refused the information ?
When was the Parliamentary resolution against any
inquiry into the religious beliefs of civil servants (which
are inquired into at each census regularly) passed ? Was
it at the same time that Mick Dooley got his imaginary
£4OO a year ?
If supplying information publicly demanded from it
constitutes the Government a Roman Catholic Defence
Society, what would constitute it a Hebrew Hod-carriers’
Association ?
What is it all about in any case ?
If Dill-Macky and co. don’t answer these ques-
tions The Bulletin proposes to get them put on
the Parliamentary notice paper as matters of
general public interest.
“The Old Principles.”
Big Dick Seddon has come back to Maoriland to
put his substantial foot on the smouldering fire of
political disaffection. His policy, as he ex-
pounded it in the speech with which he opened
the political campaign, was straight and emphatic.
Maoriland, said Richard of Kumara, has pros-
pered exceedingly under the democratic policy of
the Ballanck-Seddon Ministry ; therefore, why
change that policy? The election, according to
Seddon, will be fought on the old lines and the
old principles, and the democratic party will
again come out on top. Seddon, apparently, is
quite unable to realise that his own Government
has knocked the old principles endways. The
best of them were economy and self-reliance,
and where have they gone to? Last year the
Seddon Government borrowed, in proportion to
the population of Maoriland, more frantically
than any Australasian State, bar Westralia—
which, being “off its head ” isn’t responsible for its
actions. It was more profligate than even N.S.
Wales, which Maoriland papers hold up as a
shocking example of extravagance and derange-
ment. It was far drunker than Australia as a
whole, with N.S.W. and Westralia thrown in. It
used to have honest surpluses; now they are a
lie, for the surplus nowadays doesn’t nearly equal
the loan money used for revenue purposes. In two
years the loan expenditure has doubled ; and it is
five times what it was eight years ago. Taxes
have been taken off to placate the Farmers’
Union, and great borrowings have taken their
place. The Seddon Government is now appeal-
ing to what the Maorilanders regard, in their
insular pride, as the bankrupt cities of Sydney
and Melbourne, for money, and its advertise-
ment, trying to raise the wind at 4 per cent., glares
forth in the Sydney and Melbourne papers. And
the public works boom is having the usual result
of attracting the people away from self-supporting
occupations. The cultivated area of Maoriland
has diminished 25 per cent, since 1898, though
seasons have been good. The wheat crop of 1901
was less than one-third that of 1898, not because
the crop failed but through the abandonment of
the industry; and though there has been a slight
increase in cattle-rearing it has been very slight.
Last year exports were £360,000 less than in 1900,
and imports were £1,200,000 more; Maoriland’s
surplus of exports is now nothing like sufficient to
pay its foreign interest bill, and the process of
getting into debt is going on gaily. It is no use for
Premier Seddon to talk of fighting the election
on the old principles; since last election his
Ministry has deliberately thrown the best of the
old principles overboard with Julius Vogel’s
tombstone tied round their neck, and they have
sunk out of sight.
A Peep into the Lobby.
When the Federal tariff was under discussion
there were frequent complaints in the Freetrade
, an d by Freetrade members in regard to
lobbying”; and the Protectionist side of the
tariff controversy was represented as being inti-
inately associated with the securing of concessions
through gentle whispering in the ears of legislators
by the paid agents of people who hoped to make
something. A Victorian law-suit last week gave
the public a peep into the lobby, and, 10, it was
those sea-green incorruptibles, the Freetrade
importers, who were to be seen lurking around
with “arguments.” C. Aloysius Fox (a
fine name that for the lobby) sued various
importers for money due to him for lobbying.
He was, he alleged, employed by them to try
and convince members of Parliament, in the
interests of importers of spirits, to keep the excise
duties on local spirits on a high level and thus
discourage local industry in whisky and brandy-
making. C. Aloysius Fox went to much trouble
to distribute “ Facts about Colonial Distillation ”
and “Further Facts about Colonial Distillation,”
and, in the advancement of the cause of the im-
porter, had 92 interviews in the lobby with M’s.P.
Then the excise on local spirits was fixed at the
high level desired by the importers; and the
liquor importers seem to have grudged Aloysius
Fox the proper reward of his labors in the vine-
yard, and Mr. Fox wrote in the bitterness of his
spirit
The agitation has been successful beyond our best
hopes, so far, that distilleries are irretrievably crippled,
and everyone knows it. Surely results so patent and
affecting the importing interests so favorably from one
end of Australia to another (the interests represented by
the spirit importers are close on a million of pounds
annually) will be considered as meriting more than a
beggarly pittance.
The case is interesting because of the bowl-out it
gives to the Freetrade newspapers. They’ve been
always alleging that the “influence” in tariff
debates was exercised by vague and shadowy
persons, representing the local industries that
were going to be encouraged. As a matter of
common sense, it should be obvious that “influ-
ence ” was much more likely to come from the
wealthy and already established importing inte-
rests threatened. Wonder, for instance, what
was paid in the effort to kill the Iron Bonus Bill,
now referred to a select committee ?
4.
The Sweaters’ Representatives.
If the Victorian people wanted any evidence that
toe Legislative Council is the close brotherly
friend of the sweaters, they have it in the way the
48 big waistbands are dealing with the Factories
and Shops Act Continuance Bill. First of all,
when the Bill was sent up to the Council from the
Assembly that body failed to consider it for a
fortnight. Another fortnight was spent in getting
the second reading passed, and a week was wasted
in committee. Amendments were then made in
the Bill, wiping out all the wages boards that had
been appointed, but which had not yet come to
determinations; also abolishing the Fellmongers’
Board determination, which had been in force for
a year or more, and limiting the duration of the
measure to a period ending next September.
After these amendments had been made the
Council adjourned for another week. The object
of this was to prevent a message, embody-
ing the amendments, being sent to the
Leg. Assembly for that period, because
messages can only pass between the two
Houses while they are both sitting. Last week
when the Assembly did get hold of the Council’s
alterations it disagreed with them and promptly
sent them back to the sweaters’ representatives.
The sweaters’ representatives, like the sweaters
themselves, have all the low cunning of the sewer-
rat and they delayed the matter for a further
week by at once adjourning. All this time the
Factories Act is dead, and, although some em-
ployers make a parade of the fact that they are
observing the provisions of the old Act as if it had
been in force and alive, many of the employers,
and the worst of them, have reverted to a con-
dition of things worse than that which existed
before the Act was originally passed. A proof
that the Government, run by Iceberg Irvine and
his Tory colleagues, know that sweating is being
carried on, is that a clause in the Continuance Bill
prevents any action, penal or civil, being taken
against any employer who has, during the period
that the Act has been dormant, paid his employees
less wages or worked them longer hours than was
provided by the wages board determinations
revived by the present Bill. Not that any such
proof was needed. What the present party in
power doesn’t know about sweating isn’t worth
knowing.
The Callousness of N.S.W. Cabinet.
The swift deaths of the destitute phthisis patients
condemned to the infamous Liverpool “ Asylum ”
do not constitute the whole of the wickedness of
N.S.W. Government in regard to the hospital
treatment of consumption. Not only are the
infected killed off under circumstances of absolute
atrocity, but the healthy are put in constant dan-
ger of infection by the reception of phthisis cases
into the general wards of accident hospitals.
Sydney Hospital, for example, is forced to receive
poor phthisis patients; the only alternative some-
times is to let them die in the streets. There is
not always room at the Liverpool tnbercle-farm,
despite the celerity with which beds are emptied
there by the undertaker. The medical staffs of
the hospitals have constantly protested against the
danger to other patients of admitting tuberculous
sufferers, and Mr. David Fell and others have
repeatedly brought the matter before Sydney Hos-
pital Committee. But what can be done? The
Government persists in refusing to provide a
proper hospital for the consumptive poor, and
Sydney Hospital must accept an occasional case,
refusal being too cruel an alternative. The respon-
sibility for the necessarily improper treatment of
such cases, and for the almost certain infection
of non-tuberculous patients, rests not with the
Hospital, but with an inexpressibly callous
Government. In three months a hospital could
be built, or in three weeks some sort of a suitable
place could be purchased and fitted up, and the
Liverpool wholesale-murder system abolished.
But no step is taken, though, in response to public
agitation, a definite promise of remedial measures
was made nearly a year ago.
*
Sydney Telegraph has lately been again to the
fore with a demand that the Federal Government,
instead of completing the transcontinental line
(already partly built) from Adelaide to Port
Darwin, shall construct a diagonal line about 450
miles longer, to connect Port Darwin with Sydney,
and bring all the Northern Territory trade to
N.S.W. The line would scoop in the trade of West
Queensland in passing, and bring that to Sydney
also. This blatant demand that everything shall
be dragged to Sydney plays into the hands of
Jenkins Iscariot and his Ninety Million Acres
land-steal syndicate. The impression is abroad
that if the work of railway construction is left to
the Federal Parliament, it will mean that N.S. W.


THE LARGEST AND BEST IN THE WORLD /
The Mutual Life Insurance Co. of New York
NET FUNDS, January 1, 1902, £71,975,776.
Principal Agency in Australasia; Company’s Building, Martin Place, Sydney.
Z. O. RENNIE, General Manager.
SAWMILL MACHINERY.
Single and Double Cutting BAND MILLS for
hardwood logs, CIRCULAR SAW MILLS, Com-
plete Outfits of any capacity. Band Resaws,
Engines and Boilers.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 CLARENCE BTREET, SYDNEY.
At the Blue Mountains,
The
CARRINGTON
HOTEL PRPfY.
KATOOMBA.
A. L. PEACOCK.
0. T. H. WAKE.
M. EMIL CHIBOUST.
An Ideal Holiday Resort.
will demand the whole of the Territory’s trade,
and thi3 helps on the movement to get the trans-
continental line constructed at once and at any cost.
The demand is specially aggravating, as N.S.W.
once owned the Territory and dropped it as not
worth troubling about. S.A. has carried it, and
lost money by it, ever since, and the proposal that
it should be practically handed back to N.S.W.
now that it shows signs of becoming valuable,
makes the Crow-eaters use language that doesn’t
sound good in a city of churches and steeples.
They are, if possible, a little extra savage because
they started to build a transcontinental line, and
the new idea would make their 700 miles of rails
nearly valueless. Moreover, they would have to
pay their share of the cost of the extra 400 miles
of railway, which would kill the chances of their
partially-completed line, and the proposed Port
Darwin-Sydney railway wouldn’t be a transcon-
tinental one after all.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Lyceum “ The Derby Winner."
Royal “ If I were king.”
Palace “ Worst Woman in London."
Criterion “Uncle Tom’s Cabin.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess j Melba in Grand Opera
\ Dramatic Co. in “ Moths.”
Her Majesty’s “Mikado.”
Theatre Royal “ Saturday Night in London."
Bijou “A Message from Mars.”
Oi'era House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
New Olympia / Fitzgerald Bros.’ Circus.
(Princes’ Bridge) \ “Siberia.”
♦
“Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” at Sydney Criterion,
though better than the usual versions of that
dreadful work produced nowadays, gives the im-
pression, on the whole, of being a rather hurriedly
prepared mistake on Sheridan’s part. That
amiable comedian has thoughtfully invented
several scenes on his own. If he had Sheridanised
all the play the departure would have been still
more pleasing, but his frivolous tendencies
don’t go well with the lugubriousness of
the original author. The scene where Eliza
Harris jumps off the Mississippi boat
(which Eliza didn’t) is well-staged, but
the previous vision of her jumping on a placid
length of white tablecloth (to represent the Great
Ice Scene, which really occurred) is a blot. When
Eliza has jumped into the river and been pre-
sumably lost, one has to wait a whole act to hear
that she was rescued by her fugitive husband, who
happened to be wandering on the shore at the
time. The characters of the “ Cabin ” drama are,
most of them, so disjointed from each other, and
from the original tale, that it would be quite
possible for Johnny to appear as Uncle Tom
(a comical Uncle Tom), and Topsy and Marks,
and several gentlemen coons and a few slave
girls, and to be sold at auction in several
capacities, without making things much more
mixed than they are. It was Johnny’s oppor-
tunity, and he missed it. He is merely Marks,
and his gagging in that character is not up to his
usual standard. Uncle Tom, who is surrounded by
an atmosphere of hymn, is played by Mr. Went-
worth as the usual charcoal-colored specimen of
Christian misery. Little Eva, enacted by Gwennie
Walsh, has an intelligent cough. Celia Mavis and
Minnie Hooper make nice slave girls. Aunt
Chloe is, as'usual, played by a man; that fearful
object quite explains Uncle Tom’s Christian re-
signation to being sold away as a slave. Eli
Green’s cake-walk and other items that have
nothing to do with the book, can be commended.
** * *
Sherlock Holmes takes his glassy eye off
the criminal classes on Friday night, after looking
at them with a large drugged expression for six
weeks. Next production at Sydney Royal is to
be Justin Huntly MUarthy’s drama, “ If I were
King.” The new production will be staged with
all the pomp and magnificence for which William-
son is celebrated, and the title alone should be
good for at least one big audience. It suggests a
thrill. The world is full of men who tried to be
kings—sometimes by insurrection, and sometimes,
on the strengtli of a close resemblance, by shifting
the real king in the dead of night or otherwise,
and being found seated on his throne in an off-
hand way in the morning. The question that should
worry a thoughtful public is: “How often did the
swindle come off ? ” It is known that Smerdis, of
Persia, and Demetrius, of Russia, were found out
after enjoying the position and the salary for a
considerable time ; but how many bogus sovereigns
are never found out, and where the real sovereigns
are buried or planted whom these individuals are
personating, is a mystery. The late Queen Vic-
toria had an absolute double—a woman in humble
circumstances and a poke bonnet; but no one
seems to have taken the trouble to find out which
was the real monarch and which the double. The
fact that the Queen might have been kidnapped
in the night by order of Kaiser William, and the
double putpin her place, and that it might be the
real sovereign who wore the poke bonnet, in
despair of ever recovering her crown, was never
looked into. “If I were King” suggests a fas-
cinating subject of speculation. Perhaps he
were.
*# * *
“ The Worst Woman in London ” will see
out the season at Sydney Palace, the fire scene
and the telephone-wire escape, and the numerous
murders having proved an attractive menu to the
theatre. But the dainty little Palace Theatre,
with its drowsing Buddha, and its lotus flowers,
and calm Nirvana scheme of decoration, will
probably rejoice when the wild laughter of mur-
derous maniacs sounds there no more, and the
fumes of the great fire scene rise for the last time.
Possibly the Hawtrey co. will till the gap between
the Anderson season and the return of a J. C.
Williamson co. at Xmas.
** * *
“The Derby Winner” is in its second
week at Sydney Lyceum. All the effects, horsey
and otherwise, meet with much public apprecia-
tion. But, apropos of melodrama in general and
the “Derby Winner ” especially, why does the
stage potentate, when excited, always quit the
gilt drawing-room by smacking the door
open with the palm of his indignant right
hand ? No door off the stage ever opens by
being smacked, unless its handle is seriously
out of repair, which is not likely to be
the case on the premises of the Noblest of the
Land. When the Earl of Desbrough or the Duke
of. London leaves his denounced wife in a dead
faint, he simply casts the door from him as if it
were a rejected poem, which is an absurd stage
tradition.
** * *
At Sydney Tivoli, some old favorites re-
appeared last week—ventriloquist Winton with
M‘Ginty and two newdummies, the Wilton Bros.,
the .Clarence Sisters and others. Miss Florrie
Gallimore is giving a short farewell season, and
the Nawns, and the graceful Harbecks fill the rest
of the programme.
*# * #
Now definitely arranged that Melba’s
Sydney grand opera season is to consist of three
nights only—Dec. 6, 10 and 13. The performances
will take place in the Theatre Royal, and the
Queen of Song will have the powerful support of
the mighty Lempriere Pringle. Whether she will
have the support of the public at 3,2, and 1
guineas in this time of shrinkage is doubtful.
There’s something cynically humorous about the
thought of the lady who appealed for foreign
aid for this drought-stricken land being the means
of charging the said land three, two, and one
guineas a seat.
** * *
The Dolores boom, late of Sydney, moved
along to Melbourne last week. The adorable
little French lady (the only artist extant who has
changed one famous name for another without
resorting to matrimony) started a final farewell
series of recitals at the Town Hall on Saturday
night, and the public surged into the organ gal-
lery to hear her. This notable rise in Dolores
“stock,” as the result of the Melba concerts,
gratifies music lovers, and makes the tired jour-
nalist put his tongue in his cheek. An intel-
ligent minority among Saturday’s audience
came to hear the charming singer once again
because they knew her worth, have always
known it from the time they first enjoyed her
entertainment, and called her a wonderful woman to
be able to get through the arduous task with so
little apparent effort. Others were full of a new
admiration for Dolores, owing to their recent
discovery that they had formerly imagined vain
things about singers of European celebrity. In
learning that Melba was only a mortal, and not a
miracle, they found the simple Dolores truth.
And a third section of the audience consisted of
wild enthusiasts who didn’t pay no bloomin’
guinea to hear Melba, and therefore didn’t believe
in Melba, but had been advised to go and believe
in Dolores, and were accordingly mingling
consolation with enjoyment. The Public,
taken in the lump, is a very absurd
person to cater for. Antonia Dolores, bowing 20
times, or so, in acknowledgment of the biggest
Melbourne reception she had ever known must
have felt inclined to start proceedings with the
“Laughing Song.” All the same, she didn’t.
The “Laughing Song” was reserved for the
finish, when a camera fiend took a “flashlight”
of the universal grin. Melbourne has often heard
the Archduchess of Recital (Dolores is entitled to
rank with the other royalties) in finer voice than
she displayed on Saturday, but she has never
shown her art and versatility to more advantage.
The indefatigable worker is always perfecting
her work. The words of her ballads and operatic
pieces are printed on the programme, as they
should be, and her interpretations are a lesson in
expressive vocalism. As a comedienne the gra-
cious little woman is unique. Her Shakespeare
ditties are creations, and in all styles of love song,
warm or sisterly, masculine or feminine, the
all-round charmer seems equally effective. Also
Clarence Newell has gained fresh interest from the
fact that Satan the Sorrower, at the Princess’s, is
made up to look exactly like him. He was always
, a pleasing pianist. Now he has deepened into an
exciting vision. One expects to see him strike
blue fire from the instrument.
** * #
Anderson’s new drama, at the Royal,
“ Saturday Night in London ” is mostly a tale of
gin and trouble and costermonger. Perhaps it is
a little more broken and disordered than the
average drama that carries “ London ” in its head-
line, but the gaps in the plot are agreeably filled
up. An irrelevant prize-fight between Badger
Purvis and The Chicken turns out to be a first-
cousin to the drama on Bert Bailey’s side, for,
after Bailey has sooled The Chicken on to
victory he starts to squander some bank-notes
which are the stolen property of Sterling White,
whereupon White, who is disguised in the shock-
ing nose of one Abram Shabner (a Chosen person),
draws a knife on Bailey, which leads to a revela-
tion of the fact that White killed Inman’s father
with the same weapon, or something equally
deadly. Then Inman proves his usual innocence
of the crime by shooting Willard in an old cellar,
where Willard was about to destroy Inman’s
girl.
» * * •
Inman and his girl (christened Mona
because she was born to moan) are associated
with a sad Sara in their distress, but the other
characters supply enough wickedness and comic
relief to give “ Saturday Night in London ” a good
business start. Anderson has rarely staged a
more Nemesisical drama. The murder of the
parental banker —bankers are awfully addicted to
violent death—is avenged two deep; furthermore,
the fate of a third guilty person remains vague
and uncertain. When last seen he is being led
away in great agony to confess something, and
probably he dies after getting the stolen papers
off his chest. Miss Guildford and Miss Maud
Gwynne undertake the grief of Sara and Moaner,
and the rest of the cast includes the full strength
of the co.
* * * sit
At the Bijou, the Hawtrey Co. has fallen
back once more upon “ A Message from Mars.”
The Bijou advt. has been losing weight for some
weeks in consequence of a chronic announcement
that the theatre is To Let for a long or short
period, nevertheless there was a numerous and
respectable congregation last Saturday when the
cheery little sermon on Parker was repeated.
“Mars” is rather illogical, and therefore de-
serves support. It is only the very logical
things that don’t. Hawtrey and Co. are the same
people, with one exception, who furthered the
Christian principles of Otherdom a few weeks ago.
Miss Emma Bronton, as Parker’s aunt, is the one
exception, and she fails to obliterate all recollec-
tions of the aunt who flounced of yore. If the
Bijou remains “To Let” much longer Hawtrey
will possibly produce “ Little Lord Eauntleroy,”
and make a success with it.
This is the last week of “ The Toreador ”
at Her Majesty’s. On Saturday the gaudy bull-
sticker will be replaced by “The Mikado,” which
comic opera is practically the “East Lynne of
Australia’s lyric stage.
** * *
Satan sorrows his last at Melb. Princess
on Friday of this week, and, on Saturday after-
noon, “ Moths,” which owes its being to a
brighter woman than Marie Corelli, will supplant
the foolish drama of the tame devil and his ac-
quaintances. “Moths” will presumably be
played on the four nights next week, when Melba
is not singing, and till further notice.
« * * •
The Melba opera season, limited to three
performances at popular prices (3, 2 and 1 guinea,
and 10s. Gd. for unreserved seats), starts on
Saturday. Two acts of “ Faust” and the second
act of “ Rigoletto” constitute the first bill. _ For
Wednesday evening it is three acts of “Traviata”
and the Mad Scene from “Lucia”; and the final
performance on Saturday, 29th, will be a repeti-
tion of things done before.
** * #
At the Opera House, where Brownlow
warbles, and the “turn” of the head-balancers
altereth not, a regretful management announces
the last nights of Cinquevalli. The Great
Mokanna of Jugglers has lately been whirling the
wash-tub, and slicing the turnip in mid-air, and
otherwise varying his versatile show. Seemingly,
he is all that he was three years ago, and a little
extra. Also Walter, his attendant low comedian,
is a growing item. In fact, the Cinquevalli
entertainment improves on acquaintance up to
about the fifteenth visit, after which it remains
stationary in the observer’s affectionate regard.
** * *
The Fitzgeralds, whose other name is
Circus, have decided to follow up the success of
Pagel, the Strong Man, by producing “ Siberia ”
on a scale of prodigious impressiveness and un-
parallelled immensity, not to mention other words
of many syllables. The big tank which the Fitzes
let into the ground a year ago was put there
with a view to “Escaping from Siberia.” This
will be staged in all its glory next Saturday for
the first Australian time. The things that happen
to Siberian convicts when they escape from Fitz-
feralds’ Circus are astounding in the third degree.
Iven the elephant joins in the pursuit.
** * *
The Woods-Williamson combine has been
in possession of Hobart Royal. Business fair to
middling in “The Christian,” “Barabbas,” and
“ A Woman’s Sin ” (a ridiculous name for a three-
cornered dramatisation of the Manxman’s sin).
Lady Isabel also wept as usual over Little Willie.
The co., by the way, was rebuked in the adver-
tising columns of the Mercury over “ Barabbas ”
in about as dignified a letter of its class as The B.
has seen. An excerpt:—
It is said (I quote from the Mercury of Nov. 4) “ the
profanity of Marie Corelli’s tale is toned down,” showing
that it still remains, though not so blatant. Then, again,
it says, “ The profane was skilfully evaded by keeping
out the great Central Figure,” and yet, in the last act, a
semi-transformation scene depicts the Ascension ; and to
relieve the tension of these tragic incidents a little
comedy is introduced in the shape of a drunken Roman
and his shrewish wife. How painful and utterly revolting
such a representation of the last sad hours of our
Saviour’s life on earth is to all those who love and
reverence Him it is impossible to say fully. But, as an
Association of Christian Women, we feel bound to protest
against this play, however unavailing the protest may be.
And, seemingly, Christian newspaper proprietor
Davies wouldn’t put the letter in his Mercury
except as an advt.
Every Melbourne Cup-week of late years has
brought a spasmodic newspaper agitation for
something to be done towards raising the standard
of jockeyship. With a few exceptions the manni-
kins perched on racehorses are either honestly
incompetent to steer their mounts wisely round a
circular track when the field is crowded, or are
competent riders who stick at nothing, and are
therefore likely to prove as dangerous on occasion
as the youngsters who lack skill, strength and dis-
cretion. Horse-reporters discuss the jockey
scandal in a Jeremiah tone, as though the
effect can be altered by racing legislation
without any previous drastic treatment of
its cause. But no considerable improvement
in the jockey class can come to pass until the con-
trol of the game gets into cleaner hands. The
public and press snort at the existing state of
things. Horse-owners, for the most part, must be
satisfied with the “sport ” they get, otherwise the
demand for better professional riders would create
a supply. Using the words in their collective
sense, the jockey is mainly the creature of his em-
ployer. The employer, five times out of six, is a
bookmaker or a kindred sort of racing rogue
interested in the maintenance of petty meet-
ings, and the wrong ’uns play at besting one
another, when they are not leagued to-
gether to fleece the punting “muggins” in their
midst. Low-class jockeys cater for the needs of
despicable owners, and as these grow more numer-
ous and daring, the number of “accidents” that
happen to good horses, ridden by the best artists
with winning intentions, will continue to increase.
It is hard to say what the stewards might do to
cure or mitigate this evil. It is easy to say what
they are doing now. When the young greenhorn
(in Thackeray’s anecdote of the Georgian era)
spotted an aristocratic gamester cheating at whist
he asked the respectable old bucks of the club
what they would advise him to do under the dis-
tressing circumstances. ‘ ‘ Back his play,” said the
elderly cynics. Racing stewards—or some of
them—follow the same rule where “ cronk ” horse-
owners are concerned. They get reliable inform-
ation as to market movements and they back the
rascals’ play.
*
At Brisbane, a girl of 18 pleaded guilty to
bigamy a day or two ago. She had married twice
inside 12 months; the first husband went away to
look for work, and when he had been away for
eight months she grew tired of waiting, and mar-
ried again. It was done with little or no con-
cealment, and her only plea was that she didn’t
know there was any harm in it. Yet she was a
suburban girl, not a shoeless female from the bush,
where women grow up wild, and guess the time
by the sun, and eat stewed parrot.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Victorian State Land Bank completed
its sixth year—in one sense the best up to date—on
30th June, 1902 :
Loss by
r „„„ discount on Carried to -r, B ~
Loss - Loans floated. Reserves. Deficlt
1897 £1462 . £1462
Profit. Reserves.
1898 1608 £l6OB 146
1899 5551 5551 5,697
1900 6846 6846 12,543
1901 8150 £2931 5219 17,762
1902 9090 4414 4676 22,438
The profits are increasing’ handsomely, but the increasing
cost of money with which to carry on the business
threatens to be a serious item. Up to 1900 the Victorian
State Land Bank raised its loans at 3 per cent, without
discount. In 1901, for the first time, it borrowed at a
loss, a 3 per cent, loan of £lOO,OOO realising only £97,069.
In 1902 a 3 per cent, loan of £lOO,OOO realised only £96,048,
and it was found necessary to offer 3* per cent. Yet
even a 3* per cent, loan of £lOO,OOO only realised £99,538
—a loss of £462. Now that the hard-up Maoriland
Government is trying to borrow in Melbourne at 4 per cent,
the bank’s prospect of getting money at anything less than
3* per cent, is very limited indeed. There is still a hand-
some addition being made to the reserve fund each year,
but not nearly so much as would be made if the recent
lamentable dearth of coin hadn’t set in. In a State
which raised enough revenue to meet all requirements
the Treasurer might advance money to the Land Bank
at 3 per cent., but Victoria, like its neighbors, has nothing
to advance, except a deficit. The Victorian State Land
Bank is carefully and economically managed, however, ex-
penses, including brokerage on sale of bonds, being not
much over 14 per cent, of the gross income, and even
now it has excellent prospects before it.
The way the Government deals with the loans
it raises on behalf of the State Land Bank clearly shows
that it knows what honest finance is, though it doesn’t
practise honest finance in its general business.
When it sells at a discount of, say, £3OOO,
£lOO,OOO worth of bonds, payable 10 years hence, the
State Land Bank charges itself, as part of its
expenses, with £3OO a year to make good the discount.
When the Government sells £1,000,000 worth of securities
for £950,000 for railway building, it doesn’t set aside out
of revenue enough each year to make good the loss by
the time the loan falls due. The State has £950,000
worth of railway with £1,000,000 debt on it. When the
£1,000,000 falls due, the State probably sells securities for
£1,100,000 to raise the £1,000,000, and then the Stale has
£950,000 worth of railway (if it hasn’t depreciated till it
is only £BOO,OOO worth) with £1,100,000 of debt on it.
After some more depreciation and some more renewals
the State has, probably, £700,000 worth of railway with
£1,400-,000 debt on it. The State knows quite weil that
that kind of finance would burst its Land Bank, so as
regards the Land Bank it is honest. Why isn’t it honest
in other matters also ?
* * • *
The Westralian Bank (Perth, Westralia):
Profits,
less sums Carried
written to' Re-
off. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
Dec., 1896 £13,703 17* p.c.= £8,750 £4,953 £165,425
June, 1897 16,686 17* „ „ 8,750 7,936 173,361
Dec., 1897 18,251 17* „ „ 8,750 9,501 182,862
June, 1898 18,542 17* ~ „ 8,750 9,792 192,654
March, 1899 29,762 17* „ ~ 13,125 16,637 209,291
Sept., 1899 13,737 17* „ „ 8,750 4,987 214,278
March, 1900 11,779 17* „ „ 8,750 3,029 217,307
Sept., 1900 12,811 17* „ „ 8,750 4,061 221,368
March, 1901 11,787 17* „ „ 8,750 3,037 224,405
Sept., 1901 17,476 17* „ „ 8,750 8,726 233,131
March, 1902 17,416 17* „ „ 8,750 8,666 241,797
Sept., 1902 15,489 17* „ „ 8,750 6,739 248,536
The earnings represent £9 Is. 3d. per cent, per annum on
the shareholders’ funds as at the commencement of the
half-year, as compared with £lO 9s. Id. per cent,
earned during the half-year to March, 1902.
Though the profits show a falling-off,- however, the
business exhibits a considerable expansion. As usual,
the most remarkable feature is the immense reserve of
specie and bullion. Liabilities to the public total
£2,180,526, and against this the Westralian Bank holds
£1,202,281 in coin and bullion, equal to over 55 per cent.
The Westralian Bank, with £lOO,OOO paid-up capital and
£248,536 reserves, has far the biggest reserve, in propor-
tion to capital, in Australasia. Also, its earnings, despite
the fact that they are less than those for the past two
half-years, would enable it to pay 30 per cent, dividend,
if the management felt so inclined. Fortunately for the
prospects of the bank it doesn't. The present 17* per
cent, dividend is the largest paid by any Australasian
hanking institution, so the Westralian Bank holds the
record in several directions.
» » * *
Benjamin Josman Fink, well-remembered in
Melbourne land-boom days, has struck another good,
large trouble in London. Liabilities, £135,228; assets,
nil.
• * * »
. The Executor, Trustee, and Agency Co. of
South Australia (Adelaide) completed its. 23rd year on
30th September, 1902. Results for the last five years
have been as follows
Written Added p _
Profits. Dividends. Off to Re- ,
Leasehold, serves. sen es '
1897 .. £7Ol
1898.. £1,310 sp. c. =£536 £774 1,475
1899 .. 1,593 5 „ „ 589 £2OO 804 2,279
1900 .. 927 5 ~ „ 745 75 107 2,386
1901.. 1,877 5 „ „ 767 685 425 2,811
1902 .. 1,833 5 ~ „ 767 690 376 3,187
Apparently in its early and unprosperous days, the Exe-
cutor, Trustee, and Agency Go. was not able to make
much provision for depreciation of leaseholds, but it has
now' written the item of leasehold property completely
off, and there will, therefore, be no such serious drain on
the profits in future. The only paper item now appearing
among the assets is £lOO still to be written off the cost
of the co.’s Amendment Act which passed through Par-
liament in 1900, and which is being written down by
instalments. In this statement, however, the whole cost
of the Act is charged to the year it w'as obtained (1900),
and the £lOO still standing as a paper asset is not in-
cluded in the £3187 reserves shown above. If the lease-
hold property had been written off in 1897, the co. would
then have had a deficit of £949 after 18 years’ work, and
the fact that this has been changed, in five years, into a
genuine reserve of £3187, goes to show that the early
difficulties have been surmounted, and that the co. has
at last struck a patch of substantial prosuerity.


TRAMWAYS. TRAMWAYS.
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Proprietary, Ltd.,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
Representing ORENSTEIN & KOPPEL LTD., of LONDON and BERLIN,
Equip Complete TRAMWAYS and supply Every Description of Tramway Material
g*“ Locomotives from 10 to 250 h.p. *1
STOCKS IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE include Rails and Accessories, Steel
Sleepers, Turntables, Switches, Side Tipping Trucks, Steel Wheels, &c. Technical
advice gratuitously rendered. Flying and Permanent Surveys arranged. Illustrated
Catalogues and Photographic Albums showing Tramways constructed in different
parts of the World, upon application. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager.
Charters Towers will put up,a div. record this
year. The amount paid for 10 months is £317,200. Only
once in the history of the field has this amount been
exceeded in 12 months. O.T. divs. for the year will be
equal to all those paid by Vic. mining co.’s.
• « * •
Day Dawn gold-mines (C.T.) last half-year
crushed 6439 tons for 7000 oz. of gold, value £31,140;
average, £4 16s. Bd. per ton of stone. Divs., £11,842 ;
total divs., £53,893, or more than the nominal capital of
co. The value of the cyanide process to O.T. is shown by
the fact that the sale of co.’s sand and sludges for the
half-year paid for carting, crushing, stores and timber.
• * * •
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties ottered
must be subject toinspection. Cable address: “Option,”
Melbourne.*
« * * *
About the best Brand for Sheep now in the
market is Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and
is considerably cheaper than any other. It will dissolve
in the scour, and should certainly be Used by those who
hope to get a good price for their wool. E. Rich and Co.,
Sydney and Brisbane, hold stocks.*
* * » m
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-street, Melbourne,
having returned from his visit to England, is now pre-
pared to purchase approved Mines and Mining Properties
situated in any part of Australasia requiring Capital for
Development and Machinery. Only genuine and
legitimate ventures, capable of bearing the strictest
examinations, will be entertained.*
* m • *
A revolution in smelting furnaces seems pro-
bable. The aid of gasoline has not been recognised.
Ernest de Beer, 439 Bourke-street, Melbourne, supplies
forms to suit assayers, which are marvellous in their
efficiency.*
* * * •
There is not a headache in a case of Invercauld
(Scotch) or Brigadier (Irish) whisky. They are mild
mellow, and matured. Bennell and Bennell, Creek St.,
Brisbane. Ina, Coope and Co. celebrated English Pale
Ales.*
• • • •
Complaints of stagnation in the engineering
trade are as rife as ever, but, judging by the large stock
of Refrigerating.and Ice-making machinery now at the
engineering works of Mephan Ferguson, Melbourne, he
must expect to do a large business in these machines
during the coming summer season. The prices for all
sizes have been greatly reduced, and purchasers are
invited to inspect and test these Refrigerators before
purchasing. This firm has also introduced up-to-date
machinery for manufacturing bolts’ and nuts, rivets, dog
spikes and every discription of ironwork.*
• « * *
The best investment in Australia is buying land
at Esperance, Western Australia, the natural port of the
Kalgoorlie goldfields. With a railway, Esperance will
become one of our busiest ports, as the trade with the
goldfields will pass through it. A permanent survey is
now being made. The railway is a certainty. Get in
early and make a fortune by purchasing a few blocks
before the great, rush sets in. Price, £2O block; terms,
£1 a month- .Write for plans and particulars to The
Perth Laifd Company, 101 Swanston-street, Melbourne.*
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-streefc, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager. *
* * * *
The New Zealand Fire and Marine Insurance
Co., whose head-office for N.S.W. is at No. 81 Pitt-street,
Sydney, is the largest colonial Fire and Marine Insurance
company, and a large amount of their reserves of
£494,910 is invested in the States. Lowest rates and
prompt settlements.*
* « » *
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
all Mining and Assay Chemicals and Apparatus, Micro-
scopes and accessories can be obtained of Felton, Grim-
wade and Co., Melbourne. 4th edition, enlarged,(red
cover) of illustrated catalogue of all mining requisites
now ready. Price Is. 6d., post free.*
••* . •
£25,000 has just been expended on machinery
alone by the Dunlop Tyre Co,, at their big Rubber Mills,
Melbourne. The Company is now prepared to supply
Suction, Drill or Air Hose, Packing, Valves, etc. Quality
and prices the best in Australasia. Samples and prices
upon application.*
• * * •
The Insurance World, London, writes of the
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society’s latest report:—
“ In every way the report demonstrates a position of great
prosperity and we can safely predict under the existing
policy of enterprise, economy, careful selection of risks
and attractive schemes of life assurance a future of
enchanced greatness and usefulness.”*
• • * *
The great cost of compressing air for rock drill-
ing, especially for small mines requiring to use only two
or three drills has hitherto prevented mine managers
adopting machine drilling. The introduction of the
Gardner Electric Drill has removed this objection, small
mines can now be equipped with machine drills which
will do as much work as the air drills, and at the same
time provide the lighting of the surface and underground
working at less cost than for air drills alone, while the
cost of operating them is less than one fifth of air drills,
doing similar work, and, the necessary power being so
small, oil engines can be employed. Usually, however,
any mine using machinery will have sufficient boiler
power available to spare the three or four horse power
required to operate a couple of electric machine drills,
and so reduce their working costs and save time. The
Gardner Electric Drill is in use on many mines, and a
proved success. The Austral Otis Company of South
Melbourne, who are the Australian agents, will be pleased
to give all information to anyone interested.*
« * .• * •
Queensland Govt, has introduced a Gold-
Dealers Bill, ,the object of which is to check thefts from
mines and batteries. The measure is a drastic one as far
as dealers and “persons suspected of conveying stolen
gold ” are concerned, but it will certainly fail to accom-
plish the object sought. No legislation which it is
possible to devise will stop the Chinese, for example,
from buying gold and shipping it to Hongkong. Some
explanation is needed of the provisions in the Bill which
exclude banks from its operations.
INSIST ON GETTIN£^
„ t^SeSsl«ceß/A9NBo;v >
Green Kango,Cashmere;
•» MADRASI
Next financial year it is reckoned that N.S.W.
will have to commence paying £BO,OOO a year for civil
gorvice pensions, the Civil Service Superannuation Fund,
by reason of the remorselessly dishonest way in which it
has been plundered by successive Treasurers, being on
the verge of breakdown. If, a few years ago, when the
trouble was fully realised, the Government had started to
pay, say, £40,000 a year to the Fund, the demand on the
Treasury might never have exceeded £40,000 a year; but,
on the good old principle of never paying £1 to-day if it
can be satisfied by to-morrow’s IO U for 305., nothing
has been done. The deficit, put in a lump sum, is
£1,761,000, which is a fine large addition to the State’s
liabilities. Perhaps the grand old loan will fill the orifice 1
* * * *
The Illawarra Steam Navigation Co.
(Sydney) concluded a moderate half-year on 30th
September, 1902. Besults compare with those of some
previous half-years as follows ;
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. off. serves.
March, 1900 £27,506
Sept., 1900.. £2098 8J per cent. =£2490 27,114
March, 1901.. '2777 8| „ „ 2490 27,401
Sept., 1901.. 2215 8§ „ „ 2490 £625 26,501
March 1902.. 2392 8J „ „ 2490 26,403
Sept., 1902.. 2508 8} „ „ 2490 26,421
On this occasion, at all events, the 8J per cent,
dividend has been paid without trenching on the
reserves, but the report contains this curious
■clause, which suggests that the improvement is more
apparent than real : “ In consequence of the heavy outlay
■for improvements and repairs during the last three years,
and the increased cost of ships’ stores, &c., the Board
'regrets being unable to write off the value of steamers,
but hopes to be in a position to have a fair sum available
for that purpose at the close of the current half-year.”
That rather ambiguous statement certainly seems to
imply that no sufficient provision has been made for
■■depreciation, and that while the 8| per cent, dividend
(has already been eating away the visible reserves, the
eating-away process, if depreciation had been fully pro-
vided for, would have been still worse. It looks like
•further evidence that the 8f per cent, dividend is wholly
■unjustifiable, and should have been long since cut down
'to 5 per cent. It is added that the co.’s claim for com-
pensation for its resumed wharfage property has been
■decided by the Court, £41,800 being awarded; and that the
•co. has resolved to appeal, and wants more. As the co.’s
freehold property is valued in its balance-sheet at £17,746
:and leasehold property at £lOO, making a total of £17,846,
iit certainly seems that the award of £41,800 would leave
•some £24,000 margin available for writing down the value
>of the co.’s ships. And if the co. gets more on appeal, it
■would seem that still more will be available.
v * * •
©uring the September quarter of 1902 the
•working expenses of the Victorian railways were £13,135
unore than in the corresponding quarter of 1901. Con-
-sideuing that Bent has been reforming at the top .of his
■voice ifor thellast six months this is a disappointing result.
* * •
Harrison, Jones and Devlin, a great Sydney
■wool co., completed its twentieth year on 30th Septem-
ber, 1902, with rather better results than those of previous
year. This co. includes among its assets “ Goodwill,
£40,000,” but as The Bulletin makes it a rule not to recog-
roise paper assets of the goodwill description, when they
can be disentangled from the real assets, the said £40,000
is not included in the, reserves shown below. Thus, in
1891, Harrison, Jones and Devlin claimed to have total
reserves of £18,610, which, on deduction of £40,000 good-
will, becomes a real deficit of £21,390 :
Carried . . ,
Profits. Dividends. Written to Re-
off, serves. Peficlfc-
-1891.. £11,266 6 p.c. =£6ooo - £5,266 £21,390
1892.. 13,129 6 „ „ 6000 7,129 14.261
1893.. 14,235 6 „ „ 6000 8,235 6,026
1894.. 18,969 6 „ „ 6000 12,969 6,943
1895.. 22,957 7 „ „ 7000 £9,513 6,444 13,387
1896.. 13,629 8 „ „ 8000 5,000 629 14,016
1897.. 18,176 8 „ „ 8000 5,000 5,176 19,192
1893.. 13,120 8 „ „ 8000 2,500 2,620 21,812
1899.. 14,424 8 „ „ 8000 4,000 2,424 24,236
1900.. 12,741 8 „ „ 8000 2,000 2,741 26,977
1901.. 6,120 7 „ „ 7000 10,000 16,097
1902.. 11,192 7 „ „ 7000 2,500 1,692 17,789
The balance-sheet of Harrison, Jones and Devlin is one
of the most condensed documents of its kind that can
be found. Apart from goodwill the assets go into two
lines, “ Freehold Property” and “ Amounts due to Com-
pany,” which latter, presumably, includes cash, bank-
balance, and all sundries. Since 1893 the co.’s property
has been written down from £179,513 to £149,000, a re-
duction of £30,513, and £lO,OOO has been written ofl
advances. During the same period the mortgage on
the co.’s property has been reduced from £llO,OOO to
£74,000, which represents very respectable progress
indeed.
* * * •
The Adelaide tramway grabstera have not yet
floated their co. in London. Promoter Snow is still in
England, where he is “ awaiting the plans from Adelaide.”
This is the noble scheme which was to provide a job for
Adelaide workers last winter t
* * • *
The Australasian Mortgage and Agency Co.
—-some recent figures :
Dividends
(Preference Written Re-
Profits. Shares only). off. serves.
Sept., 1894 £10,347 Nil £236,153
„ 1895 9,763 5 p.c. =£13,585 232,331
„ 1896 19,225 6 „ „ 23,751 227,805
„ 1897 19,039 2£ „ „ 12,278 £18,064 216,502
Loss.
March, 1899 3,378 £3/6/8,, = 27,704 59,200 126,220
Profit.
„ 1900 25,718 Nil 7,100 144,838
„ 1901 11,836 Nil" 35,267 121,407
Loss. Deficit.
„ 1902 1,608 Nil 218,602 98,803
And even now the directors state that it is difficult to
estimate what further losses may be discovered.’
* » « »
That curious double-bafrelled concern, the
Union Mortgage and Agenct Co. and the Australian
Estates and Mortgage Co. had another bad year in 1901
—the belated accounts are just to hand. This concern
was originally simply the Union Mortgage and Agency
Co. Then it split into two, the Australian Estates and
Mortgage Co. holding practically all the assets, and the
Union Co. existing chiefly for the purpose of holding
practically all the shares in the Australian Estates Co.,
and wondering why its “pup” didn’t pay it dividends.
When the Australian Estates Co. managed to pay a divi-
dend it paid it to the Union Co., and if the Union Co.
' had been able to pass it on to the shareholders, it would
then have looked like two dividends. Now, the wonderful
companies are going to amalgamate again and get
back to where they were originally, in order to save
expenses—an idea that might have occurred to* them in
the first place, but the ways of London finance are pecu-
liar. This is the joint record of the two companies, losses
' from drought and depreciation included:
Profit Reserves.
December, 1894 .. £6,487 .. £168,873
„ 1895 *.. 26,781 ... 195,654
Loss.
„ 1896 .. 999 194,655
„ 1897 ... 105,536 ... 89,119
Deficit.
„ 1898 .. 100,642 .. 11,523
„ 1899 .. 47,592 .. 69,115
„ 1900 .. 188,416 .. 247,531
„ 1901 .. 92,320 .. 339,851
It looks as if another year or so of drought would see
the end of some of the pastoral companies.
• • • •
On account of the drought, one large Sydney
Wool house has put six stations under the control of one
manager. Those six stations used to run 400,000 sheep,
but now can’t muster 40,000.
• • • •
At White Cliffs the opal-miner isn’t a miner ;
he is a“gouger.” Taking, all the circumstances into
account, that is expressive. Now they have coined
another term—not quite so nice, but as good—“ lousing.”
You do that when you pick over the waste-heaps.
» * • *
South Australian railways for a few years past:
Year Net Return
(to June 30). Revenue. on Capital.
1890 .. £1,043,878 .. 5'03 per cent.
1891 .. 1,223,999 .. 5'32
1895 .. 960,155 .. 3‘12 „
1899 .. 1,058,397 .. 3'42
1900 .. 1,166,987 .. 3'91 „
1901 .. 1,236,616 .. 3 86 ~
1902 .. 1,085,175 .. 2'98
The returns move up and down just as Broken Hill booms
or blows out. What would happen if the uncertain B.H.
trade blew out altogether, no S. Australian likes to
think about. As a matter of fact, the big but terribly
rocky silver-field trade disguises the real position of the
S.A. railways. Last year, bad as the mining slump was,
the B.H. traffic gave £337,011 of the total railway revenue
of £1,085,175 ; the year before £482,622 of the total of
£1,236,616. Cut that revenue away—assume that Broken
Hill has blown out like the Burra, Blinman, and a hun-
dred other mining places—and last year S. Aus. would have
had a railway revenue of £748,164. If she lost this
Broken Hill trade and was able to maintain the whole of
her other trade, it would take just 12s. 9d. of every £1
she collected on her railways to pay the interest on the
railway loans. This is the result, of course, of sinking
millions in lines through country which for years past
has been unrelieved desert. The line from Port Augusta
north cost £2,350,000 ; and this is the record of last year’s
business at its chief (and almost only) stations in the
whole dreary waste of 429 miles :
Tonnage Out. Tonnage In.
Algebuckina .. 75 .. 38
Anna Creek .. 16 .. 16
Beltana .. .. 1012 .. 1314
Coward .. .. 112 .. 950
Farina .. .. 649 .. 1272
Hawker .. .. 5798 .. 2255
Hergott .. .. 241 ~ 2181
Oodnadatta .. 89 .. 927
Strangways .. .. 10
That is practically the year’s business on 429 miles of line,
which costs an annual £90,000 or so in interest alone 1
• * • «
“Wanderer” writes about Bombaldry rush :
“ The devil has loosed his grip in one part of N.S.W., at
all events. When some prospectors 12 months ago struck
a reef near the main road between Cowra and Grenfell
little notice was taken ; now there is quite a stir of hope
all around. After working 12 months, and realising
£lOOO in gold among eight men, they have sold to a co.
for £BOOO and a l-10th share among them. Another
reef is now developing, which, it seems to be thought on
the field, will be at least as good as the first. The quartz
is of a brown and blue color, antk one lot sent
to Dapto from the Prospect (the newly-bought reef)
crushed 7oz. per load. With a mill here, loz. per ton
would pay well. A battery is being erected, also pump-
ing machinery. Water is scarce, but that will be all
right when the pumps get to work. A well is being sunk
half-a-mile from the claims, from which the water-supply
will come. It is the best-looking thing all round
I have seen in my travels, and should stir things up here-
about. Gold is to be found from the grass-roots to a
depth of 50ft. (how much deeper no one yet knows).
About 100 men on field, but no one is getting actual gold,
as the stone cannot be treated till the new battery (to
start about Xmas) begins work. With the exception of
this new co. which owns the Prospect, all the holders are
too poor to work their ground to any great extent."
• • * *
Concerning the recent collapse in B.H. Central
mine, the inquiry which Govt, has promised to make by
commission is the result of an inspection which the co.
allowed to the local Miners’ Association soon after the
ground settled. Generally the workmen prefer to rely on
a coroner’s inquest to get out the facts ; but in this case
there can’t be an inquest, because the bodies have not
been recovered.
* • • *
Reeckman’s mine, Lobb’s Hple, Kiandra dis-
trict (N.S.W.), is still being vigorously worked, despite
the low price of copper. The owners -have recently
deepened their shaft 75ft., and have cut a lode which in
bulk is richer than it was in the upper levels. It is theo-
retically pure chalcopyrite. The owners of the Alpine Co.,
adjoining (a Sydney syndicate), are driving for trie lode,
but have an ocean of water to contend with. They have
passed through some small veins of exceptionally rich
sulphide, and the rush of water from the face is regarded
as an indication that there is a large body of ore ahead.
The great drawback to the field is the want of road com-
munication. A few months ago Mr. O’Sullivan promised
the residents that a road would be made to connect Yar-
rangobilly Valley with the Tumut-road, and the mine
owners are anxiously waiting for that road.
*•* , *
Geologist Brown (S.A.) has now travelled over
the whole Of S.A. on different prospecting tours, and he
states that every successive trip, further confirms his
belief that some day Central Australia, from Alice Springs
to Pine Creek, will support a big mining population.
Brown's employers, the Jenkins Iscariot Ministry, no
doubt had this in their minds when they decided to give
away 90,000,000 acres of this country to the Bullcohen
land-grant- grabsters.
* • * •
Management of Island Eureka, Lake Austen,
W.A., still continues to issue most glowing reports of
prospects. The lode runs north and south, and underlies
rather flat to the west, entering the Golconda blocks at a
very shallow depth, so that no more levels can be opened
up in the Eureka. The result is that it is just on its last
legs, and only five of the 10 head of stamps are now
running intermittently. Since May last year co. has paid
19 divs. amounting to 3s. 6d. per share, or £14,000, but,
despite managerial assurance, co. has now come to the
end of its visible resources.
• • » •
Merton’s Reward (W.A.) appears to have prac-
tically collapsed, the battery having closed down after
running three months only. The first two crushings
averaged about loz., and the third and last, by dint of
plate and other scraping, ran 35dwts. The peculiar
irregularity of the formation has long been known, and
has never been located in any of the adjoining blocks.
No pay-ore is in sight, and, as Mr. Jim Morgan did fully
three months’ development before starting the mill,
there could have been very little in sight when Kaufman
made the deal. It is not often that the Cohen party
make such a mistake.
• * * •
Peak Hill (W.A.) is in rather a bad way finan-
cially, being £20,000 in debt. Mine is now bossed by
Leslie Hall, who suggests its amalgamation with Darling-
ton Simpson’s unpromising Horseshoe, Peak Hill, and
Lake Way 1899. It is said that the combine will shortly
be consummated. The thing looks like a shocking
example of the halt supporting the lame. Co. did a great
flourish during its first two years’ existence, when it
treated the richest of the surface alluvial cements, and
paid £103,666 in divs. Since their exhaustion, its fate
has been tragic. . , *
White Feather Reward, Kanowna, W.A., is
being tipped as a good thing by certain scribes, who give
as reason the alleged 2oz. crushings in the very early days
of the concern. The fact is that the early day tonnage
was understated, as admitted by the chairman at the
recent annual meeting. The 10-head mill, backed by a
rockbreaker, treated only 200 reputed tons monthly,
equal to a daily duty per stamp of 14cwts. only, a figure
which completely gives the show away. Apart from this
it is well known that most, if not the whole, of the gold
came from the rich leader on the Red Hill, adjoining the
one from which Tom Doyle has recently unearthed 17920 z.
from 64 tons. When this source of supply became
exhausted, early in ’97, the mill closed down, and the
second 10-head, which had just then been added, never
made a start till the Fitzroy lead broke out. Judging
from past records it is pretty safe to predict that the
Reward will neither earn nor div.
Edjudina (W. A.), which was once more to make
♦ho state the talk of the mining world, and provide work
for the workers, has grot over its first wild excitement and
become very much fizzled. Everyone is waiting to see
how Boulder Hamilton’s option on the Wallaby is going
to turn out. What looks ominous for the district is the
fact that R. S'. Black, representing British capital, has
abandoned his option on the Wild Dog, adjoining the
Wallaby on the south, owing to the reef pinching out
entirely at a shallow depth.
* * * •
Cosmopolitan (W.A.jPis not being opened up
with the vigor one would reasonably expect. Above No.
4 level the ground is practically worked out, and no great
efforts are being made to get the ore at the sixth level
ready for stoping. To keep the 60-head mill running full
time a large quantity of barren rock from 5 level is being
sent to the mill. The water difficulty, long given as
an excuse for dilatory development, has been surmounted.
Unless more vigor is instilled into the work a further
decline in the gold output may be looked for. The new
manager, Gerard Lovell, has so far made no innovations
in working. A reduction in wages has, however, been
notified, and the issue will come before the Arbitration
Court. The Englishman reef is very wide, and rich-
looking at all levels going north, but pinches to small
dimensions going south. The Cumberland, adjoining on
the north, has been worked to a standstill, and the
battery is unlikely to start going for several months.
* » * *
Queen Margaret, (W.A.), bossed from Mel-
bourne, can’t be said to have had a very successful career.
Since the mill started in July, ’97, 44,000 tons have been
treated for 47,0000 z., worth £165,000, yet only £8750, or
Is. 9d. per share, has been distributed in divs. The mine
is very patchy, the gold being found in rich dabs and big
nuggets. For a considerable time part of the mill has
been run on public crushing, and it is quite safe to
estimate the accumulated tailings at 50,000 tons, and
this is still being added to. A cyanide plant is now
being installed, and, at a low estimate, should earn a
profit of at least £lO,OOO. The outlook on the property
has long been so uncertain that, some six months ago, an
option was taken on the South Gippsland at Vosperton
which showed good results down to water level. The
shaft on this mine has now been carried down from 200 ft.
to 400 ft. by the co. and the reef is to be opened at the
latter level. Should developments confirm the promise
of the values shown where work ceased at 200 ft. the co.’s
future should be a good deal rosier than its past.
« * • *
Westralia Mt. Morgans is now running'6o head
of stamps, capable of treating fully 8000 tons monthly.
The mine seems insufficiently developed to maintain such
an output for long, and unless a miracle happens a col-
lapse appears inevitable. The lode is very wide, but con-
tains many blanks. The average yield in future will pro-
bably be reduced to 15 to lSdwt. per ton, but it is diffi-
cult to predict how long that can be maintained.
* • * *
Briseis shares still on the down grade. Reason :
the scoria overburden has become very tough and it is not
likely that half the quantity originally estimated will be
removed with the water-power available. During the
past six months 250,569 cubic yds. of overburden were
removed and 210 tons of 73 per cent, tin ore re-
covered. It is reported that “ these operations are
profitable.” They are only profitable in the sense
that the cost of removing the overburden is
covered. The highest return for any month has been
41 tons of tin ore, and the belief in outside circles is that
there is little hope of this output being exceeded. If this
be so the gross value of the annual output will be slightly
over £30,000 with tin at current value. On that assump-
tion the outlook for the co., with its capital of £600,000,
is anything but cheerful. Directors have been threatening
for some time past to supply an official report on this
question, and the sooner it is forthcoming the better it
will be in the interests of bona fide shareholders.
• * • *
The Victorian Miners’ Association does nob
seem to profit by experience. Its action in the M'Evoy
case resulted in a large number of men being deprived of
work, and it is now pursuing a similar policy with regard
to the Bethanga mine. This is a mine on which probably
£250,000 has been spent in development and in attempts
to treat refractory ore. Within the past two years over
£50,000 has been paid in wages, and the shareholders
have had no return. It has become necessary to make
proposals to the English shareholders to provide further
capital, and meanwhile application has been made
for the temporary suspension of the labor condi-
tions. This the Miners’ Association is opposing with
all its power. What it can hope to gain by
this action may be known to the officials, but outsiders
can see nothing but direct loss. If the mine were aban-
doned to-morrow, which would be likely to happen if the
application for suspension were refused, it would be
absolutely worthless to the miners unless they were in a
position to raise at least £20,000.
• • • •
If the future of the host of N.Q. tin mines
which have been boomed recently is to be gauged by the
results from the forerunner of them —Ooolgarra, the
speculative public are going to have a bad time. During
the past quarter, co. crushed 2946 tons of stone for
68 tons of black tin, worth about £54 per ton, or £3600.
When co. was formed, it was represented that the ore in
bulk would return nob less than 4 per cent, of tin.
The resident representatives in Australia of the
London Tory newspapers, and occasional corre-
spondents to those papers from these shores, are
just now, with the worst intentions in the world,
doing valuable service to the cause of Australian
.Nationalism. A remarkable outburst of censure
in those newspapers is the good fruit of their
misguided efforts to do harm to this country.
Australia is blamed because she aims at a logical
Protection of her industries; because of her
“White Australia” resolution; because of
the political power her democracy allows to
the masses; because of her schemes for a
navy and for a self-contained system of de-
fence ; because of her Industrial Arbitration Acts.
Accepting all these accusations as truths, what is
England going to do about it? The only
“punishment,” and that which is evidently sug-
gested, is to cut off the supply of borrowed money.
And what a genuine blessing that would be to
Australia ! It is almost impossible to cure a dipso-
maniac by moral suasion, by argument as to the
folly of his courses. Cure is, however, very
swift if you can get a universal prohibition-order
against the patient. That’s what “our friend the
enemy”—the Tory London press —seems to be
working for: a prohibition order against Aus-
tralian borrowing ! Nothing could be more satis-
factory, for, without doubt, it would end the great
Loan Drunk.
♦
Mr. W. E. Buchanan writes from Orkolo,
British New Guinea:
In your issue of 26th July a correspondent, “ New
Guinea,” makes sweeping charges against the missionaries
in this Possession as a body. It is evident that your cor-
respondent hails from Samarai district. If the state of
affairs which he describes obtains there, then certainly
there could be no objection to the matter being made
public, although doubt always arises when serious
charges are made under disguise. But to include all the
missionaries in New Guinea in allegations of cowardice,
laziness, and neglect of their duties is grossly unfair.
“New Guinea” says “The missionaries run no risks,
and yet pose before the Australian public as martyrs
amongst the savages.” Take Tamati (Chalmers), who with
Mr. Thomson, another missionary, was eaten, some time
back, at Goribari, an island he was visiting, for the first
time any white had been known there. Can “ New
Guinea,” or any other white man, compare his explora-
tions to what Tamati did during his lifetime ? I certainly
know of none. Tamati had for years been the pioneer-
years ahead of the Government or any white man—fear-
lessly venturing amongst the worst cannibals and head-
hunters to be found, single-handed and ugprmed, and
setting an example that few whites in the Possession have
been bold enough to follow. The same characteristics of
bravery and devotion are yet to be found amongst mis-
sionaries now carrying on the work. In this district, the
undertaking of the mission has been carried out fearlessly
and energetically, tribes, both inland and on the coast,
having been visited and brought to a knowledge of the
white man. “New Guinea” says: “ their (the mis-
sionaries’) hand is agaipst every other white man’s in the
Possession, and every white man’s is against them.” This
is absurd, and, I am confident, would be endorsed by very
few whites. Individual cases of quarrel must occur
everywhere, but to say that the white population, as a
body, is antagonistic to the missionaries as individuals
is altogether beyond the mark. I need only mention
anywhere in the Possession the highly esteemed head
of the London Mission Society (Rev. Dr. Laws) to bring
kindly remembrances to the minds of not a few. Thirty
years ago, when Dr. and Mrs. Laws were left alone to
take their chance-at Annabada (now Port Moresby) they
had not much Government ahead of them. As regards
trading, whatever custom may obtain in the Eastern Dis-
trict, in these parts trading, or interference in any way
by the missionary with a trader in the conduct of his
business, is absolutely unknown. lam not an admirer of
the system of foreign missions, holding always that the
money so spent could be put to better advantage amongst
the white heathen of our own country'; but knowing
what I do of the private lives and unstinting devotion of
many representatives of the different societies here and
elsewhere, I consider it an unfair thing that “ New
Guinea’s ” wholesale condemnation should go unswerered.
Certainly, a missionary can give no better proof
of being adventurous than getting eaten.


DAVID UONES & CO.
KIGH-CLASS HATTERS
Panama Hats
(AS ILLUSTRATION),
37/6, 42/=, 45/= to 63/=.
Genuine Fine-Grape
Hand Selected.
George & Barrack Sts., Sydne
Tabby : “Now I won’t sit still if
you don’t tell me whose Camera
you’re using.”
Fanny Fashion : “ Why my own
to be sure, Tabby ! I bought it
at Harrington’s, and you ought to be quite proud
to pose in front of it! ”
Tabby {posing): “M’-ow—go ahead! It’s all right
—l’m proud ! ”
Society
Melb. has got so into the habit of feasting
its morbid soul upon the excitement of watching
the funerals of murderers and their victims, that
the undertakers at last openly cater for the
general entertainment. On the morning the
victims of the suddenly-crazed merchant Mueller
were interred, this burial announcement was
made:—
mHE Funeral of the late Mrs. ARTHUR MUELLER
and CHILD will pass Princes-bridge THIS DAY
(Thursday), at half-past 3 sharp, eh route for the Mel-
bourne Cemetery.
P. X. MOULD, Undertaker. Tel. 4561.
The funeral notices in Melb. morning papers are
already run in alongside the amusement advts.
It will not be long now before the sensational
cadaver is given a place in between the strong
man and Dan Barry announcements, and the
coffin-purveyor intimates that, although he has
engaged the corpse at enormous cost, popular
prices for admission to the graveside will be
maintained.
AFTER THE GUP.
“ Ah, there's no money in racing, Mr. Short!"
“ Yes there is — mine, for instance.”
On Thursday, Nov. 13, in Sydney Domain,
when the city was enveloped in a record dust-
storm, over a thousand Sydney public school
children were mercilessly drilled in the awful heat
for some hours with dumbbells, clubs, etc., to the
gasping music of a children’s band. This morning
of torture was a rehearsal for a school display to
the glory of Minister Perry and Inspector Bridges.
Ironically enough, .the parade was under the
windows of the Children’s Protection Society
office. N.S. W. Parliament should stop this school
display business shortly and sharply. Next week
a “great display ” is to be held on Sydney Cricket
Ground, in aid" of charity funds, and the chief
inspector has been furnished, under instruc-
tions, of course, with a list of teachers, showing
individually what each is doing for the affair.
One poor girl has to make 24 elaborate
hats for her little pupils, who are to gambol
round a maypole. Others have to see that the
costumes for a whole squad are in accord, which
means heavy sempstress work. Teachers dare
not refuse this duty, and the Chief Inspector, on
the day of the event, will complacently stroll
round "the (probably) blisteringly hot Cricket
Ground, on the arm of the Minister and the
under-secretary, gather to himself all the credit,
and then go to the pavilion for iced refreshments.
For the thousands of children and the hundreds
of worn-out&nd distracted teachers, the bands,
cadets, &c., there will be two stand-pipes of tepid
water, as heretofore. To organise these displays,
the Public Instruction Department must of neces-
sity abandon its school routine for weeks, and the
unfortunate teachers have their classes demoral-
ised. Is N.S.W. Education Department a teach-
ing affair, or a training place for circus per-
formers ?
• * * *
The Royal Commission appointed to in-
quire into Tasmania’s little hospital scandal
reports somewhat in favor of the hospital board,
which asked the doctor io resign for conduct
“subversive of hospital discipline,” i.e., a little
way the medico had of sitting on the matron’s bed
before that lady was up o’ mornings. No greater
impropriety was charged against the doctor ; he
simply sat on the bed, clothed in his right mind,
his full dress and his moral rectitude. But the
Board considered the habit of sitting on a lady’s
bed was one it was in duty bound to discourage ;
and a Royal Commission has declared that it was
justified in that attitude. It is a valuable ruling
on a somewhat difficult point of etiquette. Most
doctors in general practice sit on hundreds of
ladies’ beds —it is part of their business, and has
always been thought a harmless part; but now a
Royal Commission says otherwise.
• • * •
The squatter’s wife who sat near the vice-
regal crowd at Flemington on Cup-day, and
passed for Melba, was probably sorry, as the day
wore on, that she had not taken pains to look
widike the prima donna. For, while the sup-
posed Melba couldn’t raise her eyes without
noticing that everyone watched her, admiringly
or critically, she had hardly begun to get used to
the novel situation when she found the admira-
tion was turned to scorn. The multitude, on
learning the truth, glared horribly at the lady
who looked like Melba. Site had innocently
“taken it down.” Women, arrayed in their best
summer frocks, are not in the mood to waste
attention on the wrong personage.
• • • •
After last year’s Governor’s the
Melbourne dailies refrained from publishing the
names of th<*se who went to shake the vice-regal
hand, as they had always done in previous
years. On this King’s birthday, however, the
old system was reverted to, but the public,
not expecting to be immortalised, didn’t trouble
to attend, and the levee report occupied but a
column and a half altogether. How strangely
the public craves to get its name into print !
Burglars treasure up the press-cuttings of their
performances as carefully as actors, and a big
tragedy never occurs without the newspapers
being besieged by people who claim to have been
the first to go for the police, or the first to see the
smoke, or the first to call out “What’s the
matter?” For years a weekly print existed in
one Australian capital solely by the ruse of pub-
lishing the names of those who attended dances,
picnics, and other “functions” down to the fort-
nightly social of the push’s Pansy club. Some
day a genius will found a paper and make a
fortune by the simple expedient of publishing the
directory as a serial story.
• • • *
One of the Port Melbourne councillors
threatens to absent himself from the State
Governor’s levee, on Nov. 9 next year, unless the
representatives of suburban municipalities are
given a “status” at that precious function. _ The
magnates from Port Melbourne were denied a
“status” last week. When they, together with
their brilliant colleagues from N. Melb., S. Melb.,
Prahran, Collingwood, and other bogus “cities”
of the Greater Melbourne confederation, at-
tempted to follow boss Mayor Gillott and co. in a
grand procession to the vice-regal dais, “they
were stopped and compelled to go in with the
rush.” Their identities were lost among the mob
of plain, ordinary citizens. Wrapped in their
robes of office, they figured as mere needles of
minor importance in the bundle of human hay,
and his Ex. the Governor didn’t know one brand
of suburban councillor from another. Therefore,
the Port Melbourne stickler for “status” will
decline to attend the gathering next year unless
different arrangements are made. Anyone who
carefully considers the grievance of this unrobed
shopkeeper will admit that Governors’ levees
ought to be abolished in the best interests-of man-
kind.
* • * •
In the past 10 years in shipping casualties
on the N.S.W. coast 193 lives have been lost.
The most disastrous year was ’97 —the year of the
Atacama, the Maitland and the Merksworth —but
the most costly single disaster was the foundering
of the Catterthun in ’95. The sea’s levy that time
was 55 lives. The only year of the 10 with no
black mark against it is ’99.
• • * *
Acting-Commissioner Fitzpatrick now
states that it is impracticable to cut down the
Victorian railways clerical staff. Chief-Engineer
Norman’s manly stand against reducing his staff
to an extent involving danger to the travelling
public has evidently strengthened the wobbling
Commissioner’s backbone, and has frightened the
Minister. Thomas Bent has now ordered that the
lines must be made secure at any cost —also, that
expenses must be cut down at any cost; likewise
that fares must be reduced, and the reduced rates
must bring in more revenue, and that the men
mustn’t be overworked, but that two must do the
work of four. The end of all which will be that
the train David Syme is travelling in will be
ditched, and David, with a broken leg, will order
Bent’s instant dismissal in next day’s Age.
WAS HE A SPY?
H OST (to guest): “I shag, ole fellow, don' ma!
row. Three monthsh old baby in next room.”
EST (affriyhtedly): “ Will he tell?”
Three or four of the hospitals in Mel-
bourne are in a very bad financial way. The
Govt, grant to Melbourne Hospital is to be
reduced to £lO,OOO a year—£4ooo less than it was
aforetime, when private subscriptions ran £l5OO a
year higher than now. The Alfred Hospital’s
grant has fallen from £5OOO in 1892 to £3280 for
the current year, and the outlook at that one-
time prosperous institution is now decidedly blue.
People ordinarily think of hospitals as places that
always are supported somehow, but when they
get down to the point where the butcher, baker,
and milkman shriek in vain for a settlement of
last month’s bill, the matter needs urgent
attention.
* • * •
Sic transit, etc. Dunedin (M.L.) papers
print, without comment, particulars of the “dis-
tressing circumstances” of a returned contin-
genter. They have printed particulars every
time he appealed to the local Benevolent Society
for assistance, but the “great heart of the nation”
didn’t throb worth a cent, and nobody took any
notice. They just let him go on applying. His
wretched plight was due to illness, the seeds of
which were contracted while fighting in S’Africa
for St. Jingo and the King. But who cares for
St. Jingo now ?
“IT’S A WISE FATHER THAT NOSE
HIS OWN CHILD."
The eagle having been done to death as a
national emblem it remained for Victoria to exalt
the domestic fowl. A denizen of that land of
Kyabramapootras last week wired the thrilling
news to the Sydney press that “it was so dark
yesterday through the dust-storm that the fowls
went to roost in the afternoon” and “people
thought the end of the world had come.” Even
theology gets mixed up with poultry in Victoria.
“ Forceps ” writes from :
Was present this morning by invitation at the cir-
cumcision of a child by a Jewish rabbi. The
rabbi of the locality apparently not being equal to
the operation, one was imported specially from
another city. In the room were about 30 people, all
with hats on, and nearly all of Jewish persuasion.
There was some delay at first, and one or two
Israelites showed their impatience by stamping
their feet rhythmically on the floor, after the
manner of the “ gods ” in a theatre, and calling out
“ time.” This had the desired effect, and the child
was brought in. The local rabbi acted
as nurse, holding the child ; an ancient
pawnbroker acted as acolyte. The
actual operation was dexterously per-
formed, but, from a surgical point of
view, the whole business was hopelessly
behind the times. No attempt was,
seemingly, made to sterilise the instru-
ments used, so as to prevent inflam-
mation. The method of stopping the
bleeding also smacked of antiquity.
The incised parts were soaked in
brandy and water until the bleeding
stopped, and then were covered with a
balsam, the child crying lustily all
the time. Meanwhile the pawnbroker
made frantic efforts to soothe its
wounded feelings by persistently insert-
ing into its mouth a piece of sponge
cake saturated with gin and water.
The child, however, was inconsolable.
The operation apparently had been
very painful. In this case the old plan
of sucking to stop the bleeding was
departed from, perhaps on account of
the danger of transmitting diseases to
the child from the saliva of the operator.
The rabbi probably welcomes the
change. At the end of the performance
a collection was taken up. Those present
t 1 sat down to a pleasant repast,
having apparently thoroughly en-
joyed themselves atthe child’s ex-
pense.
* * *
In S. Australia he who
commands £2OO a year calls
no man his uncle. Scores of
officers, who have been 20 years or
more in the service, still draw under
that amount. The chief clerk in at
least one office supports his
dignity and family on £l9O ;
he joined in ’81! According
to a late return the Railway
Dept, has the largest proportion
of poorly-paid old servants, with
the Audit and Survey offices close up.
flow things have changed ? Obscure two-
line par. from Sydney D.T., 13/11/’O2) :
A number of returned troops arrived yesterday from
South Africa by the S.S. Warrigal.
No blaring bands, no waving crowds of oaddle-
Borae and willing girls, no receptions, no black-
headed glory displays in the o.ice wildly Jingo
press—nothing but those few words telling of
their arrival, and dismissing them more shortly
than they would a cargo of cattle. Ichabod !
* * * *
Writes “Perthfontein ” :
The man who expected promises made during the war
hysteria to be kept is a peculiarly simple fool. Two
n.c.o.’s here (Westralia) were put down for a year’s pen-
sion (Imperial). One badly smashed up, t’other slightly
wounded, but lost a finger and had joints of others
stiffened—“ partial disablement of limb ”it is called, and
it is permanent. They both got mended sufficiently to
go back as officers of Bth Battalion Commonwealth. Im-
perial Govt., thereupon, as soon as the war was over,
cancelled their allowance altogether as from the be-
ginning. Had they stayed here instead of going back to
the war they would have got their year’s pension certain
(as a sort of compassionate allowance), and the lost-
finger man certainly, and the other probably, a small life-
pension. But now they are supposed never to have been
wounded, and one to have grown a new finger and re-
gained the use of his hand. Another case : A Westralian
officer, with two terms of S’African service, was invited
back to take a commission in an irregular corps. When
he got back the war was over. Imperial Govt, refused
to recognise him ; didn’t want him at all, and wouldn’t
give him the commission or a cent of pay or allowance.
He was, therefore, in the position of having to stand his
fare and expenses from Australia to S’Africa and back,
being out |of work all that time and receiving nil.
The tap of fair dealing, not to say gratitude, was
turned right off the day peace was proclaimed.
BISHOP BARLOW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Anglican Bishop Barlow paid his fiist visit
to Tumut (N.S.W.), the other day, a parish
festival in his honor was held on the race-
course. The Presbyterian and Catholic
clergy were present.
Bishop Barlow! Bishop Barlow !
You may have a heart of gold ;
But a time for you is coming,
Filled with troubles manifold.
Do you never read the papers
That are filled from day to day
With the shoutings of the captains
In the coming Holy Fray ?
Have you not seen Reverend Berry,
Like a lion in the path,
And the vision of Dill-Macky
Riding on a cloud of wrath ?
Fire and battle he is breathing
Round the land ; and roars and rips,
Like a little gaitered Demon
In a small Apocalypse.
Bishop Barlow ! Bishop Barlow 1
Are you full of grace or guile ?
Do you think the War is Real?
Pshaw ! You see the augurs smile.
CRERVE ROE.


Wild’s, in the Sydney Arcade, is the most
fashionable gentlemen’s hairdressing saloon in
Sydney. Every attention possible is paid to the
customers by six expert hairdressers. Address.—
30 Sydney Arcade, entrance from George-streeb
or Ring street, Sydney.*
SILVER STAR STARCH.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Australia’s
Leading Tonic
Beverage.
The Bulletin (or at least that section of
it which is Scotch and attends chiefly to dry
financial problems) has a deep dislike to vague,
promiscuous, indefinite word-flapping, and always
wants to get down to the details of the case.
Therefore (it is the Scotch section of the paper
which is now speaking, the Australian section
being busy fixing up a Beautiful Poem) it is hereby
suggested that Dill Macky and Woolls Rutledge
and the other preachers who are losing their hair
over the alleged undue preponderance of the
Scarlet Woman in N.S.W. Civil Service should
leave off waving an incoherent banner on the top
of nothing in particular, and state exactly whsit
they want. Saying nothing of the fact that it
isn’t decent or polite to pound a female, even a
Scarlet one, no country can be run by mere un-
restful lamentation, and nobody should make such
a row about things being wrong unless he can
Bhow how they may be made better.
In short will Dill and Co. answer these questions,
and thereby bring things down to a business-like
Scotch basis:
Should Catholics have a vote at all ?
Should Catholics be admitted to Parliament, to the
Ministry, and the Public Service ?
If not, why not state the fact?
If they should be admitted, how many would Dill and
co. admit ? Are they to be represented according to their
share of the population, or are they to be represented on
a lower scale, and if so, on what scale ?
How many Catholics should be sacked to put the
Public Service on what Dill and co. would call a fair basis ?
How many extra or superfluous Catholics have there
been in (say) the last five N.S.W. Ministries, and which
has been the most superfluous Catholic of the lot?
Will parsons Dill Macky and Woolls Rutledge, instead
of disturbing the public at its beer by denunciations that
lead to nothing, draft a Bill to put the whole Public
Service on a proper Protestant footing, and to put any-
thing else that they think is wrong on a proper footing
also? If they will, The Bulletin will find a member to
introduce that Bill into the Assembly, even if it has to
pay him £5O to do it.
The Bulletin regards this as a business-like pro-
position and awaits an answer. And it wants the
answer to be business-like also. The prope-
management of the country’s affairs is mostly a
matter of infinite attention to details. If only
the aggrieved parties will supply the details this
paper will find the attention.
• V • . *
Adelaide is proud rather than ashamed of
its old grey-haired Sarah Francisco and her 238
convictions, mostly for drunkenness; and the
best that it can suggest for her disease is to send
her to gaol for ordinary gaol treatment. “In-
corrigible rogue—what makes me an incorrigible
rogue ?” the old woman asked the other day when
she was up on that comprehensive charge; and
the police-officer probably didn’t know how close
he had got to the truth when he answered “The
law.” “ Oh, d the law ! ” said the old wreck;
then confidentially to one of her judges, who, off
the Bench, keeps a drapery store —“ I’m right out)
of stockings, Mr. Jones ; send us up a pair.” And
Mr. Jones first sent her up, and then the stockings.
'•* * •
The Sydney police can rest satisfied ;
nobody wants to know who shot Centennial Park
“foxer” Haines. He was shot; he will stay
shot; and that should be an end of it. An
anonymous letter to the police contains an admis-
sion (which may be genuine) of responsibility for
Haines’ death. The writer states that, “ taking a
lady into Centennial Park and sitting down,” he
was blackmailed by Haines for 255. Haines and
another man then tracked his companion to her
home, and demanded more money off her. So the
writer concluded to “put a stop to it,” went to
the park next night, and, finding Haines at his
old game foxing another couple, shot him. Yarn,
of the letter is probably nearly true; with the
variation that the shooting took place when the
girl was there, not next night.
* * * •
A veteran correspondent writes re Sydney
“ touts,” “ foxers,” and blackmailers :
Many years ago, Sydney Domain policemen were known
to be of the worst among blackmailers. Few of the pre-
sent generation remember John Bay ley Darvall, Q. 0., and
eminent politician. He was admittedly no saint, but he
was not a hypocrite. One night, he was seated in the
Domain with a married woman, whose husband lived in
one of those fine houses which still stand near Governor
Bourke’s statue. Their solitude was rudely disturbed by
a policeman, who “ threatened ” in the usual way.
Darvall gave all the money he had on him, but that was
not enough ; then he passed over his valuable gold
watch and fixings, and still the blackmailing bobby was
unsatisfied. Darvall then arranged to meet him' next
night at the same spot and he would give him £5O. The
policeman was there and got the money. Darvall next
morning waited upon Inspector-General McLerie and
made his complaint, the police on night duty were
paraded, and Darvall picked out his man. But when
told by the “General” that in prosecuting, the lady.’s
name would be disclosed, if not by the prosecution, then
by the policeman, who knew her well, Darvall declined to
proceed further, and left his watch and money with the
’mailer. More than once policemen suspected of such
practices in those days became suspiciously wealthy.
Again, frequent complaints were made of two men-
civilians who “ foxed ” and blackmailed in the Domain,
but no woman (of course) could be found to inform, and
their male companions were not anxious to appear. Chief
of police McLerie gave certain instructions which were
successfully carried ont. A young and feminine-looking
ipoliceman assumed female attire, and, escorted by another
■member of the plain clothes force, took a stroll in the
Domain ; taking a seat, they were soon pounced upon by
‘two men, one named Nelson, “ who appeared as if they had
arisen from the ground.” One seized the man and the
‘other the “ woman,” and demanded money. Then
detectives who were on watch quickly took a hand and
dhe ’mailers got seven years each.
**' • •
'Campbell, the man who was allegedly
Saralysed through allegedly falling out of a
;ueensland train, and who was sentenced to seven
years for perjury in connection with his claim for
■damages, has risen disgustedly (in gaol) from the
■couch on which he has been lying in more than
one sense for eight months. He now frankly
avers that he is tired of the game—that it is too
much trouble; he can no longer endure the
doctors’ “tests ” —the electric shocks aimed at his
bogus-paralysis are altogether too much for him.
Considering that Campbell defied detection for
the best part of a year, and induced four doctors
out of eight to decide that his was a genuine case
of disablement, he was certainly a success at the
game.
• * • *
Despite the disastrous drought-time, the
Salvarmy’s recent “ self-denial ” week—the best
organised “cadge” in the Commonwealth—panned
out for Australasia £21,000 —as against £25,000 for
’Ol. Rough totals: Maoriland, £6747; N.S.W.,
£3925 14s. 9d.; Vic., £3544; S.A., £2100; Q.,
£2000; W.A., £1856; Tas., £560; Java, £542.
Wellington, Dunedin, Auckland and Christchurch
raised over £lOOO each.
Sydney University this year scores another
£5OOO a year in permanent endowment from the
State of N.S.W., and Parliament has passed the
increase so far without a word of protest against
the narrow cliqueism, the bigoted intolerance,
the toadyism and snobbishness which smother the
life of this institution. It is presumably thought
to be a sign of narrow and ignorant radicalism to
say anything in criticism of the University; even
the labor members are muzzled on the point.
* * * *
Be the Adelaide Art show :
The fifth local Federal Art Exhibition has brought to-
gether the usual collection of work by Sydney and Mel-
bourne men, and of the six pictures bought for S.A.
State Gallery only two small ones are by S.A. artists.
(Tasmania is represented in the show this year, but by
one name only). Lister-Lister has got one of hia
big canvases accepted. It is a sunset on the Hawkesbury,
rather thinly painted. Catalogue price, £l5O. A. J.
Hanson’s coast-scene outside Sydney Heads (£5O)
is nearly as large, and in quite another style.
Waves vigorously dashed in with a palette-knife.
Local critics either condemn it or pronounce it the
picture of the show. Of the Victorians, Bernard Hall
has sold an ambitious still-life piece (£B4), and Withers a
great wood-carting scene, on a typical bare Australian
road, with a very un-Australian thunderstorm coming up.
Price, 150 gs. Of the pictures not bought, M'Cubbin’s is
the most ambitious, dominating one end wall with a bril-
liantly-painted red dress, that fairly jumps out at the
beholder. Ford Peterson has a faint and wan landscape,
and Scheltema a cattle-scene on the Buffalo River, that
will probably not be allowed to leave Adelaide.
The purchases are made out of interest on the Thomas
Elder £25,000 bequest to S.A. Gallery. The exhibition is
the last of five, at which the governing body proposed to
spend £250 yearly, and this amount they have generally
exceeded. The scheme has proved so successful that it
is sure to be continued indefinitely, to the great advantage
of the Australian room in the Gallery on the North Terrace.
Local influence strongly presses the governors to buy one
of young Power’s horse-pictures, but they say they are
waiting for him to do even better work. Two Adelaide
youths in Cornwall have sent out work to the present
show (which contains 77 well-selected pictures in all), and
of these Hans Heyson shows much promise.
• • • •
The Torrey-Alexander Mission is still
wandering round the earth somewhere, de-
parting from numerous railway stations, and
receiving big cheers for and great cheers
for Alexander, and small, after-thought cheers for
the Lord. Before leaving a certain town, Torrey
and Alexander distributed among their lady
friends cards bearing the legend—
If I die to-night I will go to H .
Each lady was requested to fill in the blank after
the “H,” according to where she thought she
might be going, sign the document, and hang it
above her solitary or married pillow, “to make
her own election sure ! ” Therefore it seems that
woman has got on to more than one kind of
electoral roll in some territories.
* * * •
Hobart Clipper, not yet ten years old,
has been twice successfully libel - writted by
politicians. First verdict, got by Crosby Gil-
more, now Law Commissioner for Tap. West
Coast, was £5OO. Minister Mulcahy’s verdict,
obtained last week, was £6OO. The democratic
weekly that treats itself to £llOO worth of libels
(to say nothing of costs) in ten years, in a place
like Tasmania, must be a bit of a glutton for
fight.
In Perth (W.A.) now, when you call for
your sausage and morning paper, you get a coupon
thrown in; and if inside of 12 months you save
up 300 coupons, and put them in a packet, and
take them to the newspaper office, you get for
your virtue the price of six drinks. And over
there they call a great scheme like that by such a
modest name as “journalistic enterprise !”
ONE BETTER.
“It’s a bit slow playing by ourselves. Let’s ask
the Smiths over to have a game.”
“ Don’t! Let’s go over there to play, and when
we get full up we can come home.”
“ Eiddal ” : Know a country music-teacher
who, twice a week, walks four miles, wet or shine,
to teach a youthful piano-thumper, for 10s. 6d. a
quarter, any lesson missed by the pupil to be
made-up for, whether the teacher calls to fulfil her
part of the contract or not! The struggle for a
crust!
The ideas and the sentiment of the age
when men painted their bodies and stuck feathers
in their hair is still strong in the modern man.
One of the Druid lodges in Victoria suggested to
the annual conference that the silly practice of
wearing gowns and false beards should be dis-
pensed with by members of the order, and pointed
out the dangers of communicating horrible diseases
in the indiscriminate use of great masses of bor-
rowed chin-thatch. But the conservative section
of the Druids clung affectionately to their little
bit of savagery, and pleaded that it would be a
“pity to spoil the beautiful initiation ceremonies
by the abolition of such an attractive feature ” as
false beards and gowns. Eventually a motion
was carried setting out that the wearing of these
idiotic falderals should be optional. YVhy didn’t
the original Druids go a step further and decide
that each Druid’s lodge should have a common
and indiscriminate tooth-brush ? The common-
property beard is a disgusting thing.
* • • •
The chess clubs are the latest crowd to
kick against paying their just telegraphic dues.
In the past, when six old fogies at Dry Gully
wanted a cheap night’s amusement with six ditto
at Dismal Creek, they squared the Department,
and for a 10s. fee two unfortunate operators would
wrestle with K P to K, BP, etc., for, say,
five hours, after doing their day’s hard work.
The press rates for same period would be about
£7. But if Bill Smith wanted to wire that he
had missed the train or broken his leg he had to
pay “ urgent ” rates to get his wire through. Now
that the Dept, ukases that all must come in at the
same rate, some of the chess cranks foam at the
mouth.
• * * *
The free-pass system on N.S.W. railways
may shortly be remodelled. At presejt, every
workman in the loco, department and in tne work-
shops, and all tramway employees, during their
holidays, can have a free pass over all lines. This
has become a big tax on the railways, more par-
ticularly since the abnormal development of the
tram system. In addition to free holiday travel-
ling for self and wife and three children, some
employees can also secure four “ privilege passes ”
every year. The curtailment of the passes will
probably be in the direction of only giving them
to those who have been working on the railways
for at least five years, and the absolute withdrawal
of all privilege passes other than annual holiday
ones.
* * * *
Two British aeronauts have made a
successful trip in an airship from the Isle of Man
to Scotland. It was in 1818 that the first steam-
ship, the Rising Sun, reached America from
Europe. The first airship should be due on the
same trip before 1918.
* • * •
Apropos a recent sad episode. It is a
terrible mistake for the man who is going grey to
dye his hair; he con-
fesses then at once to an
inward greyness and a
withering of his self-
reliance. For dyed hair
and moustaches deceive
nobody— except the
dyer; like the cheap
yellow hair of the
courtesan, they
first arrest atten-
tion, and then
carry conviction.
The man with dyed hair
suggests either the dis-
reputable old rake to
whom age has nob
taught continence, or
the timid unfortunate
who has lost confidence
in himself, and invites
the world to kick at him.
lt may be true that in some
occupations with brutal em-
ployers -grey hairs spell ruin ; but there
are, comparatively, many other callings wherein
they are a recommendation, if worn bravely and
confidently. Let the man who is growing grey
look to his neckties, to the cut of his clothes, and
the polish of his boots, shave his face perhaps, and
see how he can brave it out yet among the
youngest of the bucks. Grey hairs suggest dotage?
Nonsense. One of the warmest cuddle religions
Australasia has known was run by white-haired
Worthington.
* • • •
Minister Bent is said to be considering—
at the suggestion of a Hebrew—a scheme to
establish a “ Free Loan Society” among the rail-
way employees on the lines of a Jewish organisa-
tion of that kind. It is proposed to borrow
£lO,OOO on State security at per cent, and lend
it to railway employees at 5 per cent. Usury
finds many victims in Vic. railway service; in one
recent month 150 were “garnisheed.”
MY LADY IS WAIT-
ING
FOR ME
with the red wine and thyrsus —
O a truce to the writing of verses—
My Lady is vxniting for Me /
Take the book and the maga. and poems,
Their ends and their middles and proems —
Must gird up my loin-lets and gee.
Can’t tarry a single half-minute,
Or I shall be properly “in” it —
My Siveetheart’s a-waiting for Me .
Take the bottles and corkscrews and glasses—
Pile the corks on the mantel in masses ;
My best girl is waiting for Me !
And the euchre and hazard and poker—
O tear up the deuce and the joker —
It’s time for yours truly to flee
Bis coat and his hat and malacca—
Farewell to the booze and the ’bacca :
His heart’s-love’s a-waiting for He /
She’s waiting around at her gate-let —
Must walk at a rapid old rate-let:
My darling is waiting for Me i
Can’t stop to pay bills or take cash, man —
Appointment to keep with my mash, man ;
Get out o’ my daylight, quickly J
Must meet a young lady Elysian,
The sweetest and neatest she-vision :
MY BEST GIRL
IS WAITING
FOR ME 1
GRANT HERVEY.
EVOLUTION OF A BUTTERFLY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
So, now that I am yours, you cease to woo—
Oh, fie ! you hunter of the butterfly,
You cannot even give the reason why
You tired of me so soon—and I of you.
The net you caught me in had broke, perchance
From too much service in the cause of chase
—I have escaped from you, in any case,
Tho’ once you could have kept mo with % glance.
You smile and hope, mayhap for jealousy,
Because you’ve caught another in the race.
Ha, ha ! I snap my fingers in your face
—Another hunter, sir, has captured me t
HELEN JEROME.


w
£ “graven ettes’
ill—l _
RAINCOATS.
Are. the Ideal fv\Bßics
FOR
-A SET OF TEETH ONE GUINEA
Beautiful and Lifelike in Appearance and Guaranteed Perfect Fit. Absolutely Painless
Extractions and Stoppings Guaranteed.
Special Attention Given to Regulating Children’s Teeth.
Mr. J. SPENCER HOLAN, R.D.S., SurgeonDeitist, 43 Oxfo;tf-st.
Sold by all Drapers and Hosiers.
KNEIPP LINEN
. UNDERWEAR
Porous. Cool. Clean. Unshrinkable
Recommended by Medical Profession.
Prevents Prickly Heat, Eczema,
Allows the Body to Breathe.
English Govt, was in a great hurry to pack;
Kitchener off to India. The “loyalty” of that,
country is very questionable just now. The Bom-i
bay Municipal Corporation has voted against the-'
presentation of an address to Kitchener on his-,
arrival, and during the debate (says London.!
Daily Express) “ sneering references were made*
to the Soudan Campaign and the Battle of.
Omdurman.”
There is more than a suspicion that the'
prohibitionists of Maoriland are fully seized of the ■
value of a shocking example. In Balclutha, since'
the advent of prohibition, a drunken man in the-
streets has been a rarity; not that they don’t get;
drunk, but the other people who make them so<
are careful to look after them and keep them out;
of sight, lest they forget to suppress the name off
the kind party who supplied the liquor. But the -
elections are close at hand ; also the local optioni
poll; and people who were beginning to remark:
that a decent pub or two wouldn’t be so bad, after-
all, have been suddenly stiffened to vote for the-
whole prohibition hog by a number of disgraceful:
fights between half-drunken men. Also several:
men have been gathered up in a state of helpless*
intoxication in the township’s most aristocratic;
quarter ; and the result is rage against the drinkr
and all concerned. For a time the whole district
shuddered and thought it was going back to the
bad old days, when the R.M., the S.M., thejP.l.,
the P.M., the M.D. and a shoal of hangers-on
and subordinates used to howl like fiends over
Yankee grab till far into the night. In those
riotous old times you could go the round of all the
pubs, in Balclutha and find every one of them full
of drunken men playing Y. grab, the bank-
manager standing beside the Chinese cook, the
resident magistrate brushing shoulders with the
ostler, and all- sorts and conditions of men holding
one another up with democratic impartiality.
The Laci!iE Remedies —What they are. How
to use them, and speedily obtain a beautiful
plumpness of face, neck and arms, and a perfect
bust. Write for H. Westall Guest’s new pamph-
let, post free, 229 Bourke-st., Melb.*
r.
DON’T
drink any other than
CHBREES HEIDSIECK
V CHIME
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, November 18, 1902.
My Dear Arini.—
This is the month of the early fruits, the early
mosquito, and the garden fete. State Govt. House
and other Cuppers are back and in training for
absenteeism in the Mountains. Nothing note-
worthy is occurring in Sydney, save the oiling of
our streets and the fashionable auction epidemic
h - e J~T lprna ? s ’ the Harl- y Hendersons, the Cecii
Griffiths, and Prof. Gurney’s “costly modern art
furniture and i-echercht appointments ” have been
up for sale last week or this, and Harry Tivoli
Rickards is selling off at Waver ley a lot of “re-
cherche,” prior to taking himself and family and
certain 250 guinea bull-dogs into, the picturesque
place just vacated by the Chipmans at Darling
* il*' The Hendersons—Mr. H. is manager
of the German-Australian line of steamers—who
are giving up house-keeping, had one of the finest
collections of Island weapons and curios outside
a museum. Prof. Gurney, who has retired after
25 years of mathematics at Sydney University,
has some valuable water-colors and rare books to
be sold next week. Mrs. Gurney is said to be an
enthusiastic collector of china, but the china-
maniac doesn’t sell a specimen until everything
else has gone and his or her boots are soleless.
During last week—a week on which he could
not have yearned to open anything that was not
bottled and iced—the State Governor took the
metaphorical stopper out of numerous garden
fetes and sales of work in aid of the heathen at
home and abroad. Lady Rawson was similarly
occupied elsewhere. In fact, the opening market
was so brisk that Miss Rawson had to open some-
thing all by herself at Enfield, her maiden effort.
Mr. Alex. Oliver (President of the Land Appeal
Gourt) loaned his house at Neutral Bay, an en-
chanting humpy— red and green, terraced,
powered in thousands of roses—for a garden fSte
m aid of the Melanesian, New Guinea, and Uni-
versities Mission. Sir Harry, who is deeply in-
terested in the nigger charities, stayed around the
whole afternoon (Lady Rawson was at the Queen’s
Jubilee Fund meeting), and paid for his tea, and
bought things he didn’t need, and sat out a dra-
matic performance in a stifling tent. It was a
most fashionable gathering, and as it endured for
three days and evenings, and as everything was
an extra, the brown men on the Fly River ought
to get something superfine in the way of the Word
bound in Russia leather. * >
Artist Julian Ashton,.an old friend of the Land
Appeal man, was Commander-in-Chief of the
charity, and his tactics did him proud. His
young wife, in silk and pale blue and a green-
leafed hat, and a face that stood right well the
uncompromising glare, sat outside the door of
the tea-tent, collecting toll. Solicitor-General
Pollock’s company seemed to be most in demand
amongst the girls. Jsut then the rest were chiefly
parsons or priests.
The State Gov.’s shining launch has been busy
rushing him to and fro over the blown, wet face
of the sea to these marine functions. It brought
him and Lady Rawson on their first official visit
to Manly last week, to open a fair in aid of the
Industrial School. Mayor Quirk and a heavily-
decorative (in the “early Victorian” style) party,
of aldermen received the launch’s distinguished
freight, and drove it to the school, which is run by
Good, Samaritan nuns. There are 50 inmates in
the home just now, some of them almost babies.
Lady Rawson bought several school-made bibs
and tuckers and pinnies. Trees around the home
look quite Captain Cookey as to age. Nuns
acquired the old, low-walled, rambling stone
cottage some years ago, and added the workshops.
An old Manlyite told me that it was the late
W. B. Dailey’s first residence at Manly.
Some fine houses in the high country are asking
to be adopted—for a premium. Lady Innes’s
place at Sutton Forest, for instance, you may
have for a price; and at Wentworth Falls,
Mr. J. 0. Williamson’s “Nest” is for sale. It
is one of the finest private houses on the Blue
Mountains, with 20 acres of orchard and garden
and a tenth of a mile of hall. As J.C. W.’s most
frequent address is the Melbourne Express, he is
buying another place at Bowral, where he may
fall out of the train from Friday till Monday.
During his three years’ ownership "of the “ Nest ”
he has nestled there but one week.
The M.L. girl, Miss Ada Sievwright, daughter
of a lately-deceased Dunedin solicitor, whose
marriage to Mr. J. H. Davis, of New York, “a
reputed millionaire,” was announced by cable,
has, it appears, married the father-in-law of the
Marquis of Dufferin. Mr. Davis is a banker.
When his daughter wedded young Dufferin, the
latter was an attache of the British Legation.
His |elder brother’s death in the Boer war, and
his father’s recent decease, brought him rather
unexpectedly into the title. Miss Sievwright,
who left Maoriland to study singing, has a pretty
Marchesi-trained voice, and at time of her engage-
ment was a drawing-room entertainer in London.
She is described as tall, slight, auburn, and a chic
dresser. Marquis Dufferin gave his mother-in-
law away—a most magnanimous action, as the
Davis dollars will now surely be diverted from the
Dufferms.
An. earl, only a 19-year-old one, will presently
land in Australia—the Earl of Portarlington. He
was one of the King’s pages at the Coronation". A
more distinguished visitor will be Edward Lloyd,
the famous tenor, who retired from the concert
platform, some years ago, while still in full voice.
A year ago his wife, to whom he was devoted,
died suddenly.
At Rosehill races, a correspondent tells me
with evident amazement she saw a white silk and
glace blouse, _ with a monogram embroidered in
high relief, in pink, on the left shoulder. The
fashion of monogram blouses, skirts, and especially
shoes and stockings, has obtained to some extent
m London, so the initial girl at Rosehill was not
quite original.
The pathetic case of Miss May Nelson, who con-
tracted plague eight months ago (she was ill when
Ada Lee and Sallie Booth died) and has been in
hospital ever since, has been taken up by a few
charitable persons, and a musical and dramatic
entertainment is to be given for her on Monday,
the 24th, in the Queen’s Hall, Sydney. Miss J.
Lawrence, of Waverley, and Mr. W. D. Johnston,
arethehon. secs. Miss Nelson is a Sydney girl.
She was a promising actress, and during Ilignold’s
last Australian tour was his leading lady. Her
mother had been wholly dependent on her.
Through the kindness of Messrs. Bland Holt, J.
C. Williamson and Harry Leston, Miss Nelson,
who from after-effects of the plague is paralysed
on one side, has been taken to Bowral for a
change.
Another case has been reported of a death under
chloroform, at a fashionable doctor’s private hos-
pital, and, as usual, the daily press concealed most
carefully the name of the establishment and the
names of the doctors concerned. Same day a
firm of solicitors was up before the Full Court on
a little matter of costs, and an application to with-
hold their names was sternly refused by the acting
Chieif Justice, on the ground that an imputation
would rest on every legal firm in the city.
Similarly, does not a like reflection rest on all
private hospitals by the lack of candor referred to
above ? The inquest satisfactorily proved that
no blame attached to anyone, but this suppression
of facts does not help to remove a growing preju-
dice against private hospitals.
The very latest hand-shake seems suitable to all
classes and nationalities. You grasp your victim
by the finger tips, hold him or her firmly, so that
escape is impossible, and swing the sufferer from
east to west, north to south, accentuating each
corner of the globe with a “ How-do-you-do.”
( Our Daily Telegraph’s latest attempt at a
“scoop” was to boldly nominate Lord Tennyson
as Governor-General. He was actually appointed,
it seemed, but a difficulty about his children’s edu-
cation (it is not etiquette for the children of a
Governor to attend school within their pa’s
dominions) would not let him sleep o’ nights for
worry. Also, Lady Tennyson was in a quandary
about her English trip, for which she had made all
arrangements. S.M. Herald and other papers
had not a word about Lord Tennyson, but a
rumor that “that distinguished nobleman, the
Duke of Somerset’’—nobody here ever heard of
him before—or somebody was to get the .job.
Next issue of the Telegraph showed that that
paper had been guessing again.
Randolph Bedford, in a letter to the British
Australasian, says:
Miss Nance O’Neil is ahead of most leading women in
London (he had not seen Mrs. Patrick Campbell), and,
judging by the fearful and wonderful actors the English
public applaud and pay for, an Australian reputation is
a higher artistic possession than a West End one. Thou-
sand for thousand we are better educated than the
English ; our one glaring fault is a tendency to accept
anything with an English reputation, independent of its
merits, and for this tendency we are punished with whips
of scorpions—we get Wilson Barrett and others. And the
temerity ” of M‘Kee Rankin (R.A. was indignant about
the temerity of Rankin introducing Miss O’Neil on little
capital) is worm-like humility compared to the temerity
of a man like Beerbohm Tree attempting to act Ulysses
and making the sublime adventurer a young man from
the sock department.
Someone writing from London says that artist
Spong has had a shoulder dislocated through fall-
ing off a bike. Arthur Streeton is in Wales ; some
lady, with considerable taste and money, had
bought several of his pictures. Percy Spence is
doing: well in black and white. He made a
drawing of the Indian reception at the Coronation;
all the newspaper men at this function had to
wear Court uniform—which, of course, wasn’t a
bit of a hardship to Percy.
The King has 12 Lords of the Bedchamber
who get £lOOO a year each, and 13 grooms of
the Bedchamber who receive £5OO each. These
positions are eagerly sought after because of
tho access the holders have to the person
of His Majesty.” Now what use do the
gentlemen make of this “access?” I suppose
they go through his pockets. He changes his
clothes several times a day and perhaps all cash
left in them becomes the perquisite of the groom
or lord whose “day on” it i 3. I cannot imagine
the inscrutable-faced Wallington going through
the Prince of Wales’ pockets.
The “ general ” servant, despite the bad times,
with beef a shilling a pound and mutton eight-
pence, continuesto be as terrible as an army with
banners. Sydfiey missuses thought that the sun-
struck back country and high-priced food would
send squadrons of young women into the labor
market as “generals.” But not so. The house
and parlormaid supply, however, exceeds the
demand, and the female “ generalmay disap-
pear altogether. Melb. Age has this ad. :
CjERVANT, Male, thorough domestic, desires en-
gagement lady’s service ; willing all requirements.
An art union and moonlight excursion, in aid
of the Foundling Home at Waitara, is being
organised. Tuesday, Dec. 16, is the date of the
entertainment. ,
Writes my Melbourne correspondent
“ What poor figures most politicians cut off the
benches of the House ! At all the recent social
affairs they clung to the outskirts of petticoat
parties, looking the picture of misery in their
obviously Sunday-best clothes. Nothing con-
demns a, man more utterly than to give the
impression that he is in his ‘Sunday-best/ Fellows
who look decent enough in the every-day ‘ sac, 9
suggest irresistibly the terrible British workman
of the Sunday-at-Home illustrations when they
get into frock-coats and silk hats. There is only
one time at a social affair when the average
politician looks comfortable, and that is when he
herds with his kind in the commissariat tent.
1 hen the troubled brow clears and the politician
is at home again.
“There is one time when Guv’nor Clarke
doesn t do imaginary ping-pong battle with his
nose, nor reach for an upper niche in the air with
his chin, and that is when he hugs his ’cello and
makes music. Gerardy does not hang more lov-
ingly over the strings than does the little Gover-
nor, and he respects art and so plays only what
his bow can fairly accomplish. When Papa
Clarke does his ’cello practice, all ‘ Stonington
breathes soft, and none must disturb the Muse.
“There is no cloak apartment ,at Stonington,
and you shed your outer coverings in the big
handsome bedroom above the Juliet balcony.
This starts the evening on a nice friendly basis.
A cheery bedroom, with the owner’s pretty bric-
a-brac, portraits, and private curios suggests an
intimate welcome to guests, and the descent to
the reception-room is made with a feeling of con-
fidence and brightness. The Federal Govt. House,
with its fierce janitors and its cold, bare cloak-
rooms, has the initial effect of a refrigerating
machine.
“State Govt. House is not an economical place
to visit. One woman complained recently that
to get from an Eastern suburb to Malvern cost
her. five shillings. There were trams, trains, and
a cab to negotiate for the trip. Smart people, the
sort who always tread on the early worm, engaged
their Malvern friends to write their names down
for them in the Govt. House-book. One local
kind friend inscribed 30 names—at different times.
“The ‘Grange ’ party on King Ned’s Birthday
was the last of the Cup season junkets. General
and Lady Hutton hosted it to the upper two hun-
dred and the visiting powers. Bigjohn Forrest
was the only Federal Minister on the ground.
Mrs. Irvine represented the State. Aide Browning
drove Miss Mignonette Clarke in a sweet, babyish,
cosy oart that suited her down to the ground.
The johnnies who know, you know, went in
tweeds and straw hats and reedy canes. It was
only the official lights, always out of the social
swim, who flourished ‘ doggers ’ and beavers.
“At Dolores’ sing-song on Saturday night one
motiveseemed to animate the audience —tocoinpare
her with Melba. General verdict on the return
journey was in favor of Dolores. The average
concert-goer reckoned he had got a bargain for
his money, whereas the guinea spent on Melba
nagged at him, reproached him, left him un-
satisfied. Melba’s vocal fountains had filled the
ears and eyes with their delicious gush and
brilliant sparkle. But Dolores’ stream of song
flowed into the soul and laved it. Melba had
charmed the ear, but Dolores had captured the
heart.
“ The sweet girl graduates at Melbourne Art
Gallery turned pale t’other day when widower
Bernard Hall suddenly announced his intention
of taking a holiday trip to Britain and other old
countries. A wifeless director with a £GOO salary
is a tempting morsel these famine times, and the
hungry tones in which “Bernard’s” probable or
improbable return was discussed were pathetic.
Artist M'Cubbin, benedict, will take the wan-
derer’s place.
“ The reason of Mr. Bernard Hall’s leave of
absence from'his work, as director of Melbourne
National Gallery, is ill-health. For some years
past he has suffered great pain from neuritis and
loss of power in his right arm and wrist. It is'
hoped that a trip to Europe, with treatment by
specialists, will restore him to health. Whatever
opinion may be held of the morbid note in his
paintings, there is no doubt about his ability as a
teacher of drawing and painting, many of his
pupils having made a name for themselves in
European art circles.
“There is an awful night-dress scene in the
‘ Sorrows of Satan,’ when the wicked Delilah
(Alice Farleigh) wrestles with the resolution of
Old Nibk Beatty, and cries for his hell-fire kisses.
It’s almost on a par. with that Mercia-and-
Marcus chase in the drama of the heavenly ‘ Sign
of the Cross.’ The old, old business—cant and
cuddle; a moral Devil served with lots of
cayenne; a religious tract flavored a la Zola.
“A Toorak hostess hit on a good idea Carnival
time for gathering in garden loiterers at her
dance. The night was warm, dancing really
represented a vapour bath, and couples showed a
disposition to wander out of the range of .the
electric-light radius. But they were warned that
all must gather in the ball-room whenever the
note of a bugle was sounded. About five minutes’
grace was allowed after each profuse perspiration,
and then a clarion call would ring on the humid
air, and nip in the bud any tender flirtings. It
was a highly moral scheme.
“Nowadays a woman’s hair may be white-
white mountings to a tall figure are reckoned
regal—but it must be downright snowy. The
pepper blend, showing the gradual greying pro-
cess, at once trying to the. complexion and inar-
tistic to the eye, is banned. Dye for the woman
so afflicted is as imperative as the care of her
digits. Then, when grey has at last turned to
white, the dye can cease, and the hair grow white
in a single night. There should be a circumstan-
tial story —a thrilling Yankee magazine one—to
give a reason for the sudden snowing. There are
only three really picturesque white heads in Mel-
bourne Sassiety haunts—and they provide splendid
tops to smart toilettes. One of them is honestly
greying, but its owner is the prettiest of middle-
aged matrons. ‘Wait till lam white,’ she in-
genuously says, ‘and I’ll be beautiful.’
“Examining the results of itinerant A.N.A.
competitions it appears that all the vocal cake
winners hail from Bendigo, Ballarat, Echuca,
Maryborough and Geelong—always from rural
districts, while the essay top-notchers belong* to
Melbourne, and the reciters come from within a
fair radius of suburban Melbourne. Seems as if
country oxygen strengthens the lungs, city life
stimulates brains, and suburban life breeds the
silly vanity of which recitations are the outward
rash.
“ There was never before a local male singer so
well ‘ benefited ’as Melb. tenor Walter Kirby. His
big society flutter (result nearly £500) has been
followed by numerous minor affairs in the suburbs
(he sings in one,or two local churches) involving
substantial additions to his ‘fund.’ iVleanwhile,
the soft and endearing Walter is having hard
things said about him by other deserving singers
who haven’t his knack of ingratiating themselves
in exclusive circles.
“Those of the squattocracy who could defy the
dry season and come to town for the Cup rolled
up to the marriage of James Ernest Robertson
and Miss Amy Winter-Irving last Wednesday,
and what struck them sadly, reminiscently, was
that the Rev. A. Drought officiated.
“ The engagement of the season is a surprise.
A. gentle shepherd is to. take a golfing lamb into
his affections.’ fold. He is elderly, widowed, cold,
crisp and calm as a lake on a mild summer day!
has a smooth manner, a smooth face, and heaps of
ecclesiastical frill. The lamb wields a golf
“driver,” is plump and pretty, and comes of a
sporting stock. , ...
“The unpopularity of domestic servitude in
Australia has come about, partly through the
ever-increasing desire of all employed for liberty,
equality and fraternity, partly through the folly
of employers in translating old-world pomps and
ceremonies without regard to changed new-country
conditions. The Australian ‘ general’ has often
to fulfill singly the duties performed in England
by charwoman, laundress, cook, parlor-maid and
“ boy ”in combination. Hereabouts, Mrs. Fitz-
William-Jones, the mistress of the average subur-
ban villa, in addition to the daily round of neces-
sary duties, expects her one maid to support the
household’s assumption of an ease and luxury not
out of keeping, perhaps, with “the Family’s ” in-
herited traditions (“flie Family” is descended on
the female side from a younger brother of a
suburban mayor), but far beyond the com-
pass of its present funds and resources.
Not a jerry-built ‘ Queen-Anne ’ cottage but has
its ‘ At-home ’ day with strings of callers, ting-
tinging at the bell, which is answered by the-
establishment’s Jane-of-all-trades, looking far too*
* superior ’ in her spotless cap and apron, to be
suspected of any dealings with the six-o’clock;
family dinner (sizzling audibly in the oven) not to-
speak of baking cakes for the visitors, laundrying.
tray-cloths, bees-waxing the front hall, scrubbing
the verandah and ‘ rubbing up the handle of the
big front door ! ’ And as the wages for all this*
proficiency is low, and the ‘ keep ’ that goes with l
it lower still, the supply of domestic servants;
naturally dwindles.
“Mrs. Robert Harper will be glad to get back'
to her own when Melba vacates “Myoora.” The
Harper mansion looks beautiful just now, with'
the golden-fleece of yellow broom lighting up its*
shrubberies. Its owners had a dreadful experi-
ence in Canada, t’other day, when their hotel!
caught fire ; all their clothes and jewellery were'
destroyed, and they themselves barely escaped!
with their lives.
“The spryest of the racket wielders of this-'
State at Saturday’s tennis tournament was _ Miss-
Gyton, a short-frocked lassie with her hair tied in
a fuzzy wisp in school-girl style. She played!
like greased lightning. A sleeker player was
Miss Forsyth; who hit the fashion nail on the
head by the trimmest turn-out and the least
paraphernalia—the maximum of style and the
minimum of clothes. The she-champions, from
the neighboring holy city were a determined and
strong-wristed quartette with a suffrage flavor
about them.
“An imperious beauty, whose hair-dressing al-
ways attracts a lot of attention, gave orders to
her thatch-builder to keep her style ‘copyright.’
So the Sassiety girls who flocked to the hair artist
in the beauty’s footsteps suffered a disappoint-
ment when the operator declared that she would
build up the dome glory in any style but that
introduced by the beauty. ‘ It’s not my secret,
it’s hers,’ pleads the thatcher, and so patents the
mode for the imperious charmer.
“ Three dress-builders’ ‘ hands ’ were told off, at
a very swagger knot-tying to save the bridal train
from the vandal feet of the watchers at the church-
door. The hubbie had been cautioned as well,
and the minute the much-apparelled bride appeared
after the hitehing-up the three apprentice needle-
dodgers dashed forward and kept the precious
train from soil or scratch. The trio bore it
reverently to the door of the carriage, when
hubbie blushingly took charge of it, while nodding
to his friends in the crowd. The rig-out is to be
worn as a ‘ presentation ’ robe at a Royal Drawing-
room—hence the fuss.
“A big theatrical dress-designer in the Big
Smoke was recently asked whether the peeresses-
were turning their coronation robes to moneyed!
account. He denied that he had bought any, or-
knew of any of his swagger brethren speculating
in the garments ; and indeed declared, from what.
he had seen of the robes, that they ‘ would not be:-
good enough for a s'econd-rate provincial panto-
mime.’ But they were good enough for King?
Ned.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


Where is Your Appetite ?
Have you lost your appetite ?
Have you no relish for your meals?
Have you a bad breath ? Is your tongue coated ? Have you a bitter taste in your mouth ?
Have you wretched headaches ? Have you cramping pains in your stomach, or oppression on your chest ?
Have you no energy? Are you irritable? Are you easily tired? Are you pale, or languid, or
down-hearted ?
If s0 —you need a tonic.—You need Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
They don’t purge. They make new blood. They give you a perfect appetite.
They stimulate stomach, liver, heart;, and kidneys to healthy action. They cure indigestion, and all
other blood disorders.
Cured in Eden.- “ After meals,” says Mrs. A. Targett, Toowamba, via Eden, “ I suffered from wind in the
stomach, and colicky, griping pains. At other times I felt uncommonly heavy. Sick headaches, nasty taste in my
mouth, biliousness, and heart palpitation; all told me that I had indigestion, At last I turned completely against food.
The nicest dinners could not tempt me. I tried patent medicines and doctors’ medicines, but my appetite remained poop
and my digestion bad. Hearing of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills I tried them. I had taken them only a week when my appetite
improved. Soon I could eat a fair meal without bringing on the pains of indigestion. Now l eat heartily, and am In
the best of health.”
.Sold by retailers and by the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney—2s. 9d. per box, six boxes 15s. 3d. post free.
Dr Williams pink pills for pale people
PERSONAL ITEMS.
At Melbourne Gaol, Mrs. Sangal, of a
daughter.
To make Boyne water: Add holy water
to Dill water.
Strong man Sandow, it transpires now, is
a Hebrew by race.
Sydney D.T. t’other day printed the
N.S.W. Governor as simply “Sir Harry”—no
Rawson, or anything. At the present rate it will
soon be “ Harry, old boy ! ”
There were three Anglican bishops of Aus-
tralia engaged during 1902 mostly in begging—
the prelates of Brisbane, New Guinea, and
Melanesia. The two first are still holding out the
hat in England.
The ruling passion. On Melbourne Cup
day the Kenniffs (then being tried for murder at
Brisbane) were anxious to know the Cup winner,
and its name, The Victory, seemed a good omen,
judging by their faces when they heard it. But
Fate decided otherwise.
Mrs. Ward, matron of the second N.S.W.
immigrant ship, died at Muswellbrook last week
at 95. The first female immigrant ship consisted
wholly of County Cork (Ireland) girls; Mrs.
Ward’s charges were Scotch, and came out under
the auspices of Dr. Lang.
Dr. Reville, R.C. Bishop of Bendigo, goes
to Rome. Since the death of blind Bishop Crane
he has been trying to get rid of his episcopal
responsibilities. Dean O’Haran was in the running
for the Bendigo mitre, but he broke off to have it
out with Mrs. Coningham. It is said he will now
probably succeed to Bendigo—that his only strong
rival is the local Dean Hegarty.
J. H. Angas, probably S.A.’s only million-
aire, has just recovered from severe appendicitis,
though he was 79 last month. Mr. Angas owns
much of the best S.A. pastoral lands, and makes a
hobby of stud-cattle. He inherited considerable of
hiswealth fromG. F. Angas, one of the promoters of
the notorious S.A. Co., which owns thousands of
acres of the best city and suburban land.
That young man shows self-confidence and
a capacity for finance who proposed to Sydney
University authorities to mortgage, in payment
of class fees, a novel of his now in the hands of
London _ publishers. There is provision in the
University for hard-up students, but the sanguine
undergrad, scouted any suspicion that he is not a
millionaire, or to be one soon. “We all spent
years in Arcady.”
Senator Ewing, of Westralia, is abandon-
ing Federal politics, and will try to re-enter W. A.
Assembly. He is also a candidate for the Perth
Mayoralty. He puts his loss ef income through
absence from Perth attending to his senatorial
duties at ‘ ‘ £2OOO or £3OOO ” per annum.
“Mr. G. H. Reid has promised to pay a
visit to Westralia in January. He will probably
assist at the starting of the Coolgardie water
scheme.” Which association recalls poor old
Parkes’ bitter epitome of his distrusted rival’s
virtues —“Fluent, fluent as a waterspout.”
Adam Lindsay Gordon’s widow still lives
at Bordertown, on the Adelaide side of the S.A.-
Vic. boundary line. She went up to the city a
few weeks ago, and visited Parliament House —the
place where, for a couple of sessions, her husband
made himself miserable as member for a south-
east district. ■
Mr. Edden, the newly appointed Deputy-
leader of N.S.W. Labor Party is a bluff, straight-
forward miner with a gift of humor and of natural
eloquence. There is not a member more liked in
the House; but he may prove to be rather too
downright for a position which calls for a good
deal of tact.
Under the stout title of Marquis of Lin-
lithgow, our Lord Hopetoun, just as thin as
before, has become a patron of “ The Australasian
White Cross League ” —a “personal purity ” and
gimlet institution. The job is one which, in the
fitness of things, ought surely to have fallen to
Lord Lamingtou.
How rumor gi'ows. A most confident
report went round Adelaide one evening lately
that Paris Nesbit had suicided. When the K.C.
was seen driving about in his usual health next
morning, everyone wanted to know how the talk
started. And it appeared that some unfortunate
had been reported to the police as having poisoned
himself with Paris green / The rest was easy,
A STRANGER IN THE LAND.
OLIVE : “ Oh, no, Count, Pm not an Australian.
I was born at home.”
CALLOW COUNT VON SCHULTZ (puzzled): “But,
Mees Olive, vare else vould you be born? ”
Part of the Kenniffs’ alibi was that they
were riding to Roma (Q.) races on the date of the
tragedy, and that they rode their racer, a bush
“take down,” 95 miles in 24 hours, and were to
match him the following day. This to a jury that
contained at least three horsey men !
Senator Henry Dobson will be 61 .on
Monday (Nov. 24), and Senator Tom Playford
will be 65 next day. It is almost impossible to
conceive of a greater contrast, physically and
politically, than between these two men, both of
whom, however, are full of the milk of human
kindness, and exceedingly popular with their
colleagues.
Angus M'lnnes dead. Abrave old squatter,
with exceptionally bad luck. When death struck
the Dumaresq household he managed for Lady Du-
maresq, taking up afterwards Furracabad and
other properties “along the Castlereagh.”
Drought and flood followed him, and 60 years’
pioneering work gave him a modest death-bed in
TJralla last week.
Lieut.-Colonel Williams, who leaves Bal-
larat Courier editorship to take a £7 a week
municipal billet, affords another example of the
yearning of the average pressman to get out of
newspaperdom at any price. Williams was the
only editor of any importance in Victoria to take
up the cudgels against the Kyabram wraith and
the Iceberg Govt., and he belabored them both
right well. If the Courier people have sense,
they will keep on the solid democratic ground
which the able and far-seeing Williams has found
for them.
Painful to note the unanimity with
which the Melbourne press conceals the woe-
ful deficiencies of doddering old Duncan Gillies
as Speaker of Vic. Assembly, into which posi-
tion he was foisted by the “ reform ” Govt.
Poor Duncan gets into a hopeless tangle
nightly, and doesn’t manage to keep even fairly
awake more than half-an-hour at a stretch.
When circumstances compel him to arouse
himself he gazes yawningly around the chamber
while clerk Watson tells him how the business
stands, and then it’s 10 to 1 that Gillies puts
the question wrongly. Up to date the worn-
out ancient has sent two measures along to the
Leg. Council without the formality of putting
them to their third readings, and he has a
habit of putting a motion first, and, after it
is carried, discovering that somebody has
been wanting to speak all the time. So many
informalities have occurred during the last
few weeks that it wouldn’t be surprising if
some adventurous spirit were to rise up
shortly and have the whole round of recent
legislation declared bogus. As everyone was
fully aware of the awful fist Duncan would
make of the Speakership, his appointment
over the head of Chairman of Committees
Beazley was a scandal.
Adelaide is disappointed because
Trade Minister Kingston will not attempt
to run his Federal department from that
city, seeing that all the other Ministers are
going to their respective States. Mr. King-
ston, however, has always thought more
of his work and of the public interests
than of the best means of securing his own
popularity. Since the death of his son he
has been more than ever engrossed in his official
duties.
Spluttering Sam. Gillott, who
turned his political coat in such a
hurry so that he might sneak
back to Parliament behind the
Irvine Ministry, has been
elected Mayor of Mel-
bourne for a
third term.
Gi 11 011 is
David Syme’s
solicitor, and
is one of the
wealthiest of
Melbourne’s
property
owners. At
the banquet
which Gillott
gave in honor
of his re-elec-
tion he cut a miserable
appearance : in his fur coat
and brass trappings he lokeod
like a worn-out pet ’possum.
He boasts that during his
Mayoral terra he has spentfmore
than two-thirds of his annual
income in entertaining.
Despite his somewhat super-
cilious mannah, Yic. Governor
Clarke grows upon one as a more
than ordinarily smart little man. Although he
has lately had to make many speeches, he always
contrives to tackle some interesting point, and to
make a memorable phrase or two —instance the
“Yon can’t cut the Empire up into watertight
compartments,” of his Imperialistic discourse at
Mayor Gillott’s recent Melbourne dinner. With
Barton and other bigwig orators surrounding,
little Clarke managed to overtop them all.
When Chief Justice Griffith pronounced
sentence on the Kenniff brothers, Kenniff, sen.
protested his innocence and cursed his Honor
with the bluest curse on record. The Judge forbade
the reporters in Court to record the anathema —
whence it happened that the Brisbane dailies
came out next day with a number of curious
ellipses in the report of the final utterances of the
senior prisoner. Blasphemy is always a comfort
to the bushinan.
Judge Boucaut (S.A.) is said to contemplate
early retirement from the Bench. Though he
reached 71 last month, he is still strong and
active, but is wealthy, and wrapped up in his
Arab horse-breeding farm. Thirty years ago,
Boucaut, then S.A. Premier, made himself famous
by his public works and land-taxation policy ;
Parliament adopted the former and rejected the
latter. In politics he was always a strong demo-
crat.
John Hurley, M.L.A., aspires to be chief
humorist of N.S.W. Assembly. During the dis-
cussion on the appointment of clerics as J’sP., he
said that, not only were clergymen being ap-
pointed, but there was also on the list a nun.
“It’s a lie, a false lie!” howled Mr. Danyell
O’Connor. “ It’s a fact,” replied Mr. Hurley, in
a hurt tone, “here is the notification ”-and he
drew a big official envelope from his pocket. It
was a commission to one Nun, an alderman. The
House laughed hilariously.
.T. T. Bell. Ch irman of Committees in Q.
Assembly, made a gallant (though unconsti-
tutional) attempt to reduce the salaries of Judges
in Bananaland—per medium of a Bill to that
effect. It was anticipated, after the admirable
example set by Gov. Chermside, that the Judges
and scheduled officials of Q. would voluntarily
reduce themselves some 10 per cent. —but never a
fatted Rhadamanthus among them all disgorged
even a cent. When Queensland is in the throes
of a terrible drought surely their Honors might
temper Justice with a little mercy.
Cabled from Maoriland :
The hair of Captain Reid, the hero of the Three Kings
landing, has turned from auburn to grey, since the
wreck of the Elingamite.
Well, the truly gallant captain can console himself
with the reflection that he can dye back to auburn.
No one ever suspects red hair of owing its color to
Art, because all, except the superlatively cunning,
strive after Byronic black when Nature is unkind.
A very well-known Melbourne man, a personage
in his day, has long understood this, and has got a
widespread reputation for perennial youthfulness
from his (artificially) auburn locks.
Westralian Factories Bill, now in the
Assembly, extends to bank clerks and recognises
two employees as the minimum factory.
When, the other Sunday, King Edward
sat under the pulpit at St. Paul’s Cathedral and
gave royal thanks unto the Lord, he didn’t escape
without a gentle hint from the parson. The
Bishop of London suggested that “Providence
had twice saved the life of His Majesty to enable
the more perfect fulfilment of the kingly con-
ception of duty.” His Maj., according to the
Bishop, is now getting his second chance to be less
imperfect than he was before. Providence will
hardly give him a third caution. If Ned offends
again his license will be forfeited.
Recently-deceased Zola had, of course, his
little romance, and two of his illegitimate children
wept at his grave. Madame Zola made no
objection to their presence. The French regard
these matters somewhat differently from the Eng-
lish ; not that they are less moral, but less hypo-
critical.
Soon after leaving Auckland, during her
last voyage to Sydney, the American liner Sierra
—running 18 knots at the time—cut so deeply
into a whale that the engines had to' be stopped
to allow the huge corpse to slip off the stem
and sink—crimsoning the sea for a considerable
distance with its blood.
“Jacques”: Be baths in London hotels
(B. 8/11/’02.) Writer was in London two years
ago and met officers from Aldershot at Anderton’s
Hotel, Fleet-street. Had to pay extra for baths
there. Same at First Avenue Hotel in Holborn,
and same at hotel in Russell-Square. Randolph
Bedford is correct.
“ J.R.” re the loss of the Elingamite on
the Three Kings :
A lighthouse in the neighborhood would not have pre-
vented the wreck in such a fog as prevailed at the time.
In a fog the eye is useless, and hearing must be relied on.
Now a kind of wireless marine telephone has been on the
market for the last two years. A big electric bell is sunk
some 40ft. under water, securely anchored, and supplied
with current from a dynamo on shore. It is claimed that
a man in a boat can hear the bell five miles off, and that
ships with proper receiving apparatus can tell how far off
it is, and in what direction, and can also receive and
answer signals made with it 12 miles off. The principle
involved is the greater celerity with which sound travels
through water than through air.
Gems of Australian information from a
geographical work (by J. M. D. Meiklejohn,
Prof, of Education in the University of St.
Andrews), dated 1899, and, according to the pre-
face, containing all that is necessary for the
“ Examination of Pupil Teachers and Students in
Training Colleges”:—
“ Flowers have no scent; and many birds no song.”
“ One of the most striking plants of Australia is the
‘ flame-tree.’ When it is carried with its large bunches
of red flowers it renders the Illawarra mountains con-
spicuous for miles out at sea.” “Victoria, Queensland,
Tasmania, West Australia, and the Fiji Islands have
formed a Federation.” “ Melbourne .... stands on
seven hills, which rise gradually from the Yarra, and is
one of the best built and noblest cities in the world.”
Launceston Examiner says, in a fluent
leading article, that what is wanted in this crisis
of Tasmanian politics is a Man, True, indeed !
And what kind of reception would a real Man
get from papers like the Examiner? There have
been such in Australasia—Grey, Higinbotham,
Ballanee, Graham Berry, Lilley, are a few speci-
mens. There are real men now —Kingston,
Seddon, “Dick” O’Connor, Turner, are all
capable of pulling a dilapidated little island out
of the mud. Does Tasmania want any one of
these? Not much —if the Examiner represents
Tasmania. There is no clod of earth in all Laun-
ceston that the Examiner would find big enough
to throw at a real man if he came along. A
cheesemonger is what the Examiner wants.
“ Galvo ” writes :
Am at present engaged on a large electrical contract
wherein an American is erecting the boilers and an
Englishman the engines, while the dynamos and elec-
trical work are my funeral. Amusing to watch the very
divergent methods of these two in handling their men.
Both are conceited, but with the difference that the
Britisher thinks that he only can do the job, while the
Yankee reckons that his contract requires at least a
U.S. man, though not necessarily himself. Bull swears
at his men personally and offensively, whereas, though
Jonathan is a real nigger-driver, his “ language ” is
directed at the work, and not at the men. T’other day
the Britisher had to get a heavy weight lifted, and this
is how he spoke : “ Now then, Kelly, you crimson son of
a , why the h don’t you pull on that rope ?
Smith, you goggle-eyed, loafing , look what you’re
doing. That’ll do; slew the round.” Thus the
Yank on a similar joh : “ Naow then, b’yes—pull the
dash thing rahnd this way. Naow then, get a blanky
move on you. That’s a nice shinin’-dollared botch to call
a johb ! ” &c. lam an Australian, so, of course, this is
how Ido it: “ Now, would one of you gentlemen be so
kind as to slew the brushes of that dynamo a trifle this
way. Ah, thank you. Mr. Jones, may I trouble you to
clean that communicator.”
Boards of advice are an excrescence on the
Victorian Education Act. At one time it was
impossible to pass an Act in Vic. without pro-
vision for the appointment of a “ board ” of some
sort. Most of these “boards” were born to die,
but the school boards of advice survive, and prance
round each successive Minister for Education with
petty little resolutions couched in pompous lan-
guage. Last week they rushed Reid, the Reform
Minister who is never in his office, with requests
to give the members of the boards free passes to
get to Melbourne on the pretext of holding
quarterly conferences. Also they impudently
suggested various alterations in the Education
Act to give themselves more power over teachers,
and to provide for religious instruction in school
hours. At a meeting held after the interview
with the Minister the thread-bare cry of “dis-
loyalty ” was raised by several members. Iff was
alleged by one Smith that some teachers ignored
notices in the Government Gazette calling upon
them to display loyal flags and mottoes on certain
days. And instead of telling this pushing crowd
of beggars and bounders that the Government
wasn’t taking any more deadheads Reid received
it seriously and encouraged it.
WHEN HILLDA
BIFFT ME:
(FOR THE
BULLETIN.)
Wifftme 1 ckcl kum
!JPor "Pleafure of tke ©low
,fiTKo all tKe S prmgalls irv tKe karre
t(CB c *T\ lauaK to fee itt fo.
,|| °O-.. "^9
U Ifor m tkeir Dreafts 1 knew tkatTke>r
|Tkat 'Jllowe ckd er\v/ me
&More tkan tke kifs fke gave witkout
1 Tke Iff| ea r t ’s J%,utkoritie .
TROUVEHE.


WATSON’S WHISKY.
The Genuine Linen Mesh
Underwear has arrived I
THE DR, DEIMEL LINEN MESH SINGLETS PANTS
in all Sizes and in two Weights, obtainable from all the leading- Men’s Mercers at the fixed rate of 10/6 per
garment. Linen made in the form of a porous absorbent cloth possesses enormous advantages over the old-
fashion Woollen Garments. It does not become clammy or matted in wear. Is more absorbent than any other
material. Whoever heard of wiping one’s hands on a woollen cloth? Why, then, the body which is constantly
giving off moisture? IT NEVER SHRINKS. Ask for descriptive pamphlet, obtainable at all leading Men’s
Mercers throughout the Commonwealth. SOLE AGENTS—
ROCHUSSEH BBOi., 305-7 Flinders Lane, Melbourne; The Strand Arcade, Sydney j Charles Bt., Adelaide.
GO TO HELL-
KiOIiANI > for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real pood stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
u
D.C
L
K
V
WH
S
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
Aboriginalities.
To CoxTßir.uTOßs. In the ease of ethnological and
natural history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience ; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific
value.
“ Nabo ”: How’s this for Australian
casualness ? In the New England district (N.S.W.)
a woman had occasion to be away from home for
a day, and daring her absence her children went
crayfishing in the creek. The eldest, a girl of 13,
fell into 7ft. of water, and the rest stood around
watching her struggles until she finally sank.
Then they went on fishing. Towards dark they
went home and got tea ready, and later, when
their mother returned, sat down to the evening
meal. Presently the mother asked: “Where’s
Annie ? ” “Down in the creek, mother,” answered
a boy of 10 ; “she fell in while we were fishing,
arid didn’t come out again.” After recovering
consciousness, the poor woman rushed to some
neighbor;, and the body was soon recovered,
Then, while the mother lay unconscious on the
bank, a neighboring fanner gave her children a
flogging—“ to put a little feelin’ into ’em.”
* * • *
Pleasing to note that the Queensland
Attorney-General has written a “strong minute ”
about the recent slaughter of blacks in the North.
Among other things, he says that the white police-
man in charge of the native troopers should not
have permitted, without investigation, the aboriginal
Cockroach to take possession of a gin alleged to have
been his at one time, and permitted the gin to be vir-
tually compelled to travel with the party till she became
“ knocked Tip,” and then left her to the tender mercies of
Cockroach and to solitude, five miles from her com-
panions. (
The same powerful and vituperative official says
also that the policeman showed “great want of
candor” in not reporting that he saw certain dead
bodies—those of aborigines supposed to have been
killed by bis black troopers. This is terribly
severe language. “Great want of candor” in
mentioning that they had seen certain dead bodies
has characterised many remarkable persons—
kings, bushrangers and others—but that minute
should put a definite stop to the evil.
* • * •
“Alone”: “Noplace like home” —even
if it is in the mallee. You can meet the starved-
out mallee cocky any where in Yic. now, travelling
his stock for grass, but still staunch in his allegi-
ance to the droughty wilderness that refuses him
a crust. Pathetic to hear him explaining elo-
queatly how easy it is to raise crops and money
there, xvhen seasons are favorable. The green
fields of other parts of the State cannot, in his
opinion, compare with the scant herbage that
springs up iu the mallee when there is a little
rain. He is quite willing to face the deadly
grind and uncertainty and pollard - and - treacle-
pudding all over again, if it would only rain
sufficiently to grow enough grass to keep stock
alive.
• * * *
“That recent Drysdale (N.S.W.) hailstorm
was a terror. One man, a rabbiter, had his buggy
smashed up, himself stunned, six of his dogs killed,
and others blinded. Another man had 60 sheep
killed, and another 100. A carrier had two horses
lulled, and some school-children were seriously
injured. With the hail, in two hours, fell sin. of
rain. This over about five miles square, while
A MISSIONARY TRIUMPH.
“‘Ta-ra-ra Boom-de ay,’ which was all the rage in London
in the early part of 1892, has, it is said, just reached the West
Coast of Africa, and is being vociferously rendered by the
natives.”—DAILY PAPER.
thousands of square miles of country are perishing
for moisture.
• • • *
“ Chass.” concerning a prediction here
made last June:
Victoria, north of the Dividing Range, is becoming
practically deserted. All the stock is on the roads
travelling to the coast, and can be bought for a mere
trifle. A few months more drought and the people will
also have to clear out. Farmers from the best parts of
t;he Wimmera are buying standing crop south of Ararat
at as high as 90s. an acie. The great bulk of these crops
is in the hands of speculators. Railway concessions re
starving stock do not benefit the bona-fide ockie, as he
has either sold his stock already, or has to “ell when he
gets it to the coast for whatever it will bring. The big
trouble ahead is where next year’s seed is to come from.
Even if duty were taken off, imported wheat would be
useless for seed, as farmers would not risk sowing new
and non-acclimatised wheats ; altogether, things were
never worse within the history of Victoria.
“N.”: 1500 wethers were sold lately in
the streets at Orange (N.S.W.) at one penny
per head ! Of course, the poor brutes had to be
carted away in drays, but one buyer out Newbridge
wav (out of a possible 500 sheep, or £2 Is. Bd.
risk) has 300 well on the road to fat, and expects
20s. per head by December.
• • • •
Crows in swarms have attacked the few
remaining crops in Donald (Vic.) district. They
break the straws below the head, and pick out the
grain when it falls to the ground. They do the
work so thoroughly that there will be little left for
tlie_ farmers to strip. There is no environment to
which the crow cannot suit itself, and thrive.
• * * *
Cecil Poole sermonises on Drought and
other things:—
I heard a parson say recently, in a N.S.W. western
town, that drought was a punishment from God for the
sins of the people. It seemed to me that mullock of that
kind wouldn't show a color when cleaned up ; that, as a
working hypothesis, it was not only an insult to
Omniscience—pious folk, somehow, never object to that
but that it would not tickle the intelligence of a myall
blackfellow.
That the piety of the people should be so nicely pro-
portioned to climatic conditions is a theory that over-
taxes the credulity of a layman. In any case, why do the
sinners go to the dryer and warmer regions—now? Are
they trying to break themselves in—so that they shall
not be collar-proud in the Hereafter? Does morality
make climate- as our parson imply ? If so, why did
not the late N.S.W. God-fearing Ministry of biessed
memory meet at Wanaaring or White Cliffs ? Then would
the Grey Ranges skip like rams and the desert be full of
fat sheep.
But, perhaps, the climate causes the sin. That is
feasible. Anyone who put in a summer at Bourke would
cease to wonder at the conspicuous iniquity that blossoms
there. I say nothing of the dead stock—though it is hard
to see where they come in. None but a pietist crank
would imagine that a beneficent Creator would torture
dumb animals because other of his creatures were given
to sin. And, by the way, whom were prehistoric Aus-
tralian droughts meant to punish ? The blacks—for not
going to church ?
The idea of praying for rain, too, is a screeching
absurdity. The weather, at the moment of writing, is
very dry. The causes of this drought were scattered,
but active a year ago. As active, but still more scattered
and complicated a century since. Just as active, if im-
mensely remote and infinitely- more complicated, what
time that sweating slaves hauled the blocks for the first
Pyramid. And so back to a distance in time, which may-
be expressed but not comprehended, when the first
shrinkage took place in the gigantic globe of gas that is
now the earth. And that had an eternal universe of
causes behind it. So, since all the operations of Nature
are but a sequence of cause and effect, or, if you please,
of succeeding phenomena in invariable order, we are, in
asking God for rain, not asking Him to “give us back
y esterday,” but calmly begging a fresh start for the
planet itself. To ask Him to give a dead man his life
again would be the merest trifle beside the mammoth
miracle we crave.
If people want to pray about the drought, let them ask
their Maker to put a little energy- and a little horse-sense
into their own whining carcases—though that would be no
small miracle, either. Butacertain brand of religious cranks
find it easier to flop on their knees and try to cadge from
Omnipotence than to get up and hustle for their wants.
Judicious stocking; the replacement of the edible shrubs
and plants, eaten clean out of the country ; the conserva-
tion of the fairly abundant surface-water received over a
term of years ; the tapping of the huge supply that drifts
beneath the deserts of Australia from the tropics and
wastes itself in the ocean about the Great Bight—these
are matters that the Americans would have started well
and long ago. I have been told that there are Americans
who pray. I have never yet managed to find myself in
American praying-circles. What Ido know is that, as a
people, they work harder and more intelligently than
anybody else on “ God’s green earth.” And Australia
will be of the greenest when we follow their thrice-
blessed example.
“ H.J. " : Most bush-fires are
quite unpreventible. Haystacks, put
together too green, often take fire, and
lightning often causes fire, which, owing
to slight accompanying rain, doesn’t
break out for days afterwards. A fire is
often due, too, to a spark from a stock
man’s pipe alighting on some combus-
tible substance, e.g , dry cattle-droppings,
which, after smouldering for a time,
break out into a disastrous fire hours
afterwards. Ruinous fires in stripped,
or “trashed” cane-fields are very fre-
quent, and are unexplainable, except
upon the spontaneous-ignition theory.
Sometimes a bit of glass causes a fire by
focussing the sun-rays upon something
inflammable. The play-ground, or
“bower ” of our spotted Chlamydodera—
constructed as it is out of highly-inflam-
mable silk-grass, and decorated with
every bit of glass locally obtainable—is
in this way a frequent cause of fire, and
boundary-riders on stations in Coonamble
(N.S.W.) district were ordered to de-
stroy every one they came across.
• * • »
“Nell Cook”: Those of the
Barwon blacks near Mungindi who have
contracted the opium-habit have become
withered wrecks, especially the women,
some of whom I remember but a few
years ago as strong, robust young girls.
Those among them who do not use the
drug regard those who do with marked
dislike, and will not camp near them.
Our local black men, when not sodden
with opium or drink, are naturally honest
and courteous. For instance, if any of them come
suddenly on a party of white women bathing in
the river, they will either quietly withdraw or
carefully look another way when passing, whereas
a white man will too often make himself obnoxious
under the same circumstances.
• * • •
The Bulletin aboriginal liars hide their
diminished heads. From a religious mission
paper:
If the waves are rough while they (New Guinea native
women) are fishing on the sea-coast, they milk their
breasts to still the troubled waters, or chew cocoanut and
squirt the oily liquid to produce an artificial calm.
The Papuan method of catching turtle is simple,
though, possibly, not always effectual. The native swims
out to his prey, and, clasping the turtle’s bodv in his
arms, returns in this way with it to the shore. The
islander of the South Seas will, in a similar way, dive
under a crocodile, fasten a rope round its body, and briiw
it to land 1
“ WILMOT ” ABRAHAMS, THE LAST OF THE TOORAM
(WESTERN VIC.) ABORIGINES.
Photo, by Jordan, Warrnambool.
“ Trotter ” paints a gruesome picture :
I recently visited the Vic. mallee country, and found it
a howling'wilderness, without a vestige of grass any-
where, and no sign of a crop. North of Sea Lake, the
inhabitants on Tyrrell Downs work on the two-thirds
principle for a syndicate, and just now they are hard put
to it to live. “ I bought a farm here eight years ago for
£500,” said one. “Had a splendid crop that year—s
bags—never had seed since.” During eight years of
settlement practically only one crop 1 The mallee cookie
has but one idea—to grow wheat (which won’t grow).
He lives in a two-roomed ruin, with boxes for
chief furniture. Not a tree is to be seen near
the house, nor is there any shade anywhere. The
heat is intense, and the flies are maddening—“ bung-
eye” being very prevalent. Some are hunting
marsupials and rabbits ; some collect bones, and others
cut and dig mallee roots to keep the pot boiling. Hardly
any have a horse, and the food is awful. At one place I
had a composition of pollard and treacle made in the
shape of a damper; at others, bran-bread; and at
another place I found a girl of 13 in charge of four
younger children. The father and mother were away
looking for toil, and had left a bag of wheat, some tea,
and a tin of treacle. The wheat the children boiled and
mixed with the “joy.” Ordinary meat is out of the
question, the skinny rabbit is sickening, and all poultry
has died or been consumed. Clothing is scarce. Bagging
and blue blankets are made into skirts ; shirts are made
of sugar and flour-bags, and sandals of green-hide. Boots
are rare, and the children are almost naked. The water,
muddy and full of strange beasts, has to be carted for miles.
Yet, said one cockie to me, “ You oughter see it in a
good season—no better land in the State.” They have had
eight bad years ; yet, as one bag to the acre will pay, two
pay handsomely, and three are a fortune, they still hang
on. From Sea Lake south to the fringe of the mallee at
Wycheproof the country is as bare as a bald head. All
the stock is being trucked, and you have to order trucks
a month ahead. A squatter at Glenloth offered me 900
shorn sheep for nothing, if I could get them away. The
engines used for these trains are worn-out affairs, which
are continually breaking down, so that stock is kept for
days in the trucks, packed like sardines, and die whole-
sale ere reaching the destination. One man who sent
his stock to Leongatha (Gippsland) lost 50 per cent. The
poor beasts were three days in the trucks. The store-
keepers, too, are to be pitied. One at Wycheproof has
£BOOO on hi 3 books', and has Buckley’s chance of getting
the greater part of it.
• * • •
Again, the toughness of the Australian
infant. A girl drifted into the bush
at E. Fremantle (W.A.) on Wednesday morning,
and after two blazing hot days was found on
Friday night 15 miles from her starting point,
and not much the worse. How many miles she
had zig-zagged in those two days Heaven only
knows.
Harry Stock-
dale writes con-
cerning abori-
ginal fire-mak-
ing
E. S. Sorensen
• (B. 25/10/’O2) ob-
: serves : “The
method, as des-
cribed to me by
an old blackfel-
low, consisted in
twirling a hard
pointed stick in a
shallow hole in a
particular wood,
the hole being
filled with dry
powdered hark.
Thestick washeld
upright between
the palms, and
twirled rapidly by
rubbing the
palms together.
A gin knelt before
t ie operator and
blew gently on
the powdered
stuff the moment
it began to smoke.
It sometimes
tired out a dozen
male operators
before the lire
C ime, but the
one gin waited to
blow all the
time.” This is
incorrectand mis-
leading. I have
seen fire made by
aborigines in
many parts of
Austra'ia —some-
times thousands
of miles apart;
yet only once did
I see more than
one blackfellow
engaged in the
operation. Two
men in that case
->ok turns at
t irling, and that
„as under spe-
cially watery con-
ditions. Also I
have but rarely
seen a gin utilised
as “blower.”
Once, about 32
years ago, when I
was in charge of
1 ',OO store cattle,
we were camped
on the Edwards,
git hemmed in
by a flood, lost a
lot of our sup-
plies, and had all
our matches des-
troyed. I had
with me a Lower
Murray native,
and, though it
was raining hard
(as it had been for
several days pre-
viously), he made
a fire’ in a few
minutes, using
the process com-
mon to the Mur-
ray natives, over
probably the
greater part of
the river’s course.
He first searched
till he found a
8 nail, dead and
f a rly-dry pine
tree, having a
s nail crack in
the trunk. When this had been felled, he fossicked
about for bits of inside bark, which he shredded as
fine as thread ; then, bunching a lot together, gently
rubbed it till it became slightly fluffy. With this he filled
the crack in the log, and then cut a small transverse
notch. Next, he took a piece of wood 2 or 3in. broad,
about 2ft. long, and roughly sharpened on one side, and,
inserting this into the notch, sawed it rapidly to and fro
immediately over the most in.lammuble portion of the
bark, two of my men meanwhile holding a sack over
the log to keep off the rain. The black gradually
increased his pace until, when he found the wood
getting hot, he fairly made his wooden saw fly.
Then, as the heated wooden filings dropped on the towed
bark in the crack of the log, this began faintly to smoke ;
and, after perhaps three minutes from the start, the
black suddenly seized the two ends of the towed bark and
brought them quickly together over the smoking filings,
and wafted the stuff gently to and fro till it burst into
flame. In Oentralia, along the Overland Tel. Line, fire-
making is generally accomplished by two men sitting
face to face and using a spear-thrower (womera) cross-
cut-saw-fashion upon a light, spongy, wooden shield
made from the bean-tree.
* • • •
Accounts differ amazingly as to the
drought-resisting capacity of the camel. R. T.
Maurice’s party, which lately struck across the
continent from near Port Lincoln (S.A.) to
Wyndham (W.A.), report that their beasts once
went 12 days without water, and more than once
eight days, all on very dry feed. Yet the camel-
carrier on far-west N. S. W. tracks declares that a
spell of five or six waterless days knocks his team
clean out. Perhaps the difference is in the
carrier’s smart, business-like move and the ex-
ploring party’s very leisurely stroll.
* * • *
“R.A.” : Be par. (8., 15/11/’O2) to the
effect that when Henry Morant conquered the
renowned buckjumper, Dargin’s Grey, at the *9B
Hawkesbury Show the horse had already that day
unseated 16 alleged champions:
1 was present, “ holding the sponge” for Morant, and I
can testify that the only one who had previously mounted
the horse, and given him a show to buck, was a
man who was thrown kite Jhigh. The redoubtable Jack
Fitzgerald certainly did mount the brute, but didn’t
give him a chance to perform. Morant, however, rode
the horse to a finish, sitting him without stirrups, and
the way the vicious grey got to work was an eye-opener.
As a further contradiction to the par. referred to, I may
mention that the owner of the horse had stipulated that
only four were to have a try. The candidates drew for
places out of a hat, and I was one of those who had the
luck to draw a blank. After the outlaw’s performance
with “ the Breaker ” the fourth man backed down.


Cerebos Salt
contains the life-giving, health-sustaining,
phosphates of Wheaten Bran (absent from
White Bread) necessary to build up sound
Teeth and Bones in the young, and to main-
tain blood, brain, and nerve force in the grown
up. Cerebos Salt is used like common salt.
From Grocers and Stores.
Wholesale Agents Harrison «fi Attwood, Sydney.
MONEY MADE SELLING THE “PEOPLE’S"
WINDMILL.
I made £5O last month selling Windmills. I sell to
almost every farmer. I build the mills myself. The
material costs only £2 10s. It is as good as a £3O mill.
To the farmer who prefers building his own mill, I sell the
plans and specifications. It is the easiest money I ever
made. Any intelligent man can do as well. If you need
money, wjjpe me. I will send plans and specifications,
prepaid, and all necessary information for success on
receipt of Five Shillings. JEAN F. OASEY, Drawer 65,
St. Louis, Mo., U.S.A.*
Providence last week sent a miraculous
draught of fifty-three million herrings to the
Yarmouth coast. Mackerel and herrings—cured
and otherwise—are the best friends of the London
poor. As Wilfred Denver’s wife suggests, it is
doubtful whether red herrings afford much
nourishment for growing children, but it is a fact,
as Jaikes points out, that the youngsters get a lot
of amusement from the bones.
If the Irish Home Rulers wish to send out
to Australia a really effective platform persuader
of funds they should make a big bid for the keen-
witted Mr. Tim “ Hell-Cat ” Healey. In the
Commons the other night, time being refused for
the discussion of Irish grievances, Healey rose as
“a native of Uganda,” and speaking as an
African ingeniously thanked the Govt. for its con-
sideration to his people and complimented it on
its repression of the Irish. Healey would draw
audiences and cheques in Australia.
A man strolled casually into Melbourne
Law Courts, one day lately, and mentioned to an
attendant, as a matter of passing interest, that a
dynamite bomb was lying on the window-sill out-
side, and was liable to bring about chaos at any
moment —then he passed on about his business.
The attendant rushed outside, and, seeing an
ordinary sewerage dynamite cap, with unlighted
fuse attached, on the sill, procured a long pole,
swept the “ weapon ” gently off on to the pave-
ment and thence into the gutter, where he let it
soak while he stood off at a great distance. His
unusual antics induoed a couple of tramway men
to abandon their vehicle and investigate. Know-
ing what it was, they desired the attendant not to
make a fool of himself, and the three then
detached the fuse and threw the cap down the
tram-slot. It then occurred to one of these three
brilliant intellects that somebody might subse-
quently waste a year or two in locating the cap
and putting a lighted fuse down so as to explode
it, so he gingerly got down a manhole and crawled
along the filthy tunnel to recover it. Then it was
handed over to the police, and Melbourne con-
gratulated itself on a narrow escape from an
“anarchist outrage.”
A PROVIDENT SOUL.
Sydney water-famine has been relieved by some
showers. This citizen takes precautions for the
future.
“Titus Salt” moralises :
Last week’s storm poured the hot, yellowy-browny dust
of the interior on to the coastal cities, and they smelt of
the interior for two days afterwards. A strange, thick,
stifling, brown smell it is. When a hot dust-storm falls
out of the north-west on to Sydney and Melbourne, it
leaves behind it an odour that suggests grit and bones,
and failure and bankruptcy, and illimitable spaces, and
illimitable oiliness and weariness ; and the dust sticks to
everything, as if every grain of it were greasy with the
flesh of dead heifers and dead squatters, and dead bank
managers—the ones who granted the overdraft, and
defunct bushmen who were loony before they died, and
with age-long accumulations of dead crows, and the
scorched tail-feathers of the late lamented emu. And
there is a faint—a very faint —flavor of euca-
lyptus along with the flavor of dead heifer and dead
crow, and dead history, and dead bushman, and
dead mortgage and burnt tail feathers, and all the oldest
and deadest and burntest things on earth. But soaking
through everything is the whiff of age, the smell of
decomposed continent that hasn’t had the good, clean,
healthy sea over it for icons and aeons, the taste of Cain’s
oldest progenitor, and the impalpable dust of heaps and
heaps of rotted centuries—centuries that are more
numerous than rabbits, and that want the clean, fresh
rain to fall on them so that they may settle down and
new, clean, fresh centuries grow out of them. It suggests
the flavor of a huge place where a dissipated pauper 10
miles long has died of spontaneous combustion. There is
a flavor of hot metal in it, of ash, of Sheol mixed with old
greasy dishcloths ; but yet you think of all these things,
and abandon them, and come back to the conviction that
it is an old smell, and, still more, that it is a discouraged,
low-down smell. And even then you haven’t quite got it,
but it makes you feel bad all the same.
Particularly in districts where there is no coal-
gas to be had, or where it is very dear, the Noiseless
Kerosene Gas Stoves, for which Messrs. Nelson and
Robertson, 17Loftus-street, Sydney, are sole agents, are
the very acme of household comfort. They are the very
latest invention in Kerosene Stoves, and are stocked by
all the leading hardware merchants and storekeepers. It
is necessary for intending purchasers to ask for the
Noiseless Jupiter.*
A SIMILE AND A MORAL.—“What the
dustman is to the dwelling in which we live, that
Hunyadi Janos is to the local habitation of the
human spirit.” Thus, writes a well-known
medical writer.*
Advt. from Loudon Morning Leader
X> EQUIRED for gentlemen’s corset department
young man; must be smart and good figure
essential Reply (photo, if possible), E. 895, Leader
Office.
Good-looking young man required to fit corsets on
creatures of ms own sex. Ugh !
SILVER^^
BLOUSE
BUTTONS.
In all the New Designs we are showing
in all the Fashionable Sizes.
Exquisite Works of Art.
Reproductions of Antiques.
L’Art Nouveau Designs.
In Silver Oxidised', and then, fno, the
New Real Turquoise Bkt.ons
at 45/- the set are the Acme of Taste.
as
Me.
ft
Si
t«v<
NC
8B»?
>CS?»
(VjK
?'s»a
-1„J> S
Solid Silver Oxidised Blouse Buttons, 12/6, set of 0 in case.
London Prices
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
Fairfax & Roberts,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 HUNTER STREET. )
“Poor Devil”: Recently went to bed
with a hump as big as any camel ; and, to induce
sleep, drank half-bottle of raw
schnapps, with the result that dur-
ing the night plucked out the whole
of my moustache.
IN PUSH SOCIETY.
"Gam! Yer never ’ad a muvver! Wot yer
mean!"
“Yer muvver won yer in a raffle!”
A.M.8.” : “Re yarn in Narandera
Ensign (quoted 8., 8/11/’O2) that deceased
Naturalist M ‘Gooey went to Sydney University,
“ where he took his M.Sc. degree, and just missed
his M.A.” There is no such degree as M.Sc.
(Master of Science ?). Sydney ’Varsity does
grant the D.Sc. (Doctor of Science), but the Chair
of Science was founded long after M'Cooey’s day.
Then there is no record of the fact of M'Cooey
graduating 8,A., let alone M.A. M'Cooey, pro-
bably, never entered Sydney University.
* * * *
“ J.A.F.” : Re manure value (B. 8/11/’O2).
An instance: On Merrulebale station (N.S. W.)
are two blocks of crop, side by side, one manured,
t’other not. The recent hailstorm beat both simi-
larly into the earth, but the manured crop is now
hooting up again, with promise of a fair harvest,
whilst the other is a mere mass of withered stalks.
* • * •
“ Jaf.” : Re manuring crops (B. 8/11/’O2) :
Am told by an experienced farmer that, though
in normal seasons manuring gives an immense
increase, and though even in a prolonged drought
ihe manured crop will, for a time, make headway,
it will, when the pinoh comes, die off more rapidly
than the unmanured. Reason: the extra heat
of the manured earth is the last straw.
* * • *
Westralian Labor member Taylor threw
a little light recently on the philanthropic ways
of the Westralian squatter. He produced in the
Assembly a bill sent by one squatter to another,
for 13 days’ work of a gin and a male aborigine
at 2s. 6d. a day each, squatter No. 1 having,
apparently, hired out his black human property
on these terms to squatter No. 2. At the same
time No. 1 received 6d. a day from Govt, for the
maintenance of the gin, so he seems to make 3s. a
day out of the lady. An indignant Tory member
assured the House that it was a base libel, for the
squatter was hundreds of miles away at the time,
and it was a subordinate who sent in the bill. This
doesn’t seem to make much difference; the
wealthy slave-owner generally keeps a subordinate
to do flogging and collecting, and other routine
work.
* • • •
“B.” : Re the bunyip, of whom we all
have just been hearing again:
When I was a boy, on the Murrumbidgee, it was an
everyday affair for someone to “ spot" the “ bunyip." I
was in the habit of inflicting the “ bunyip ” scare on the
crowd tt it was always to be found swimming round the
beach at Wagga of a summer evening. We used to pro-
ceed some distance up river, tie a sheet of tin to a long
twine, and then swim quietly down, dragging the tin
along the bottom. When we got fairly amongst the
crowd we would quietly “ surface ” the sheet of tin and
“ let her go." The course of the tin as it began to settle
down would be very erratic, and the effect most weird.
The crowd would “ out" to a man, and, grabbing their
belongings, make off; and then for a week the crack shots
would be sneaking along the banks at night trying to
“ pot the bunyip.” It needed little “ embrocation ” then
to get a “ bunyip yarn ” from any of the boys—some of
them even bigger liars than myself.
• * * #
“ J.P.L.” : Can any Bulletin reader tell
me how snipe breed ? I have heard some very
queer statements on the point.
“Plicus ” : Cook’s Day,” a new excuse
for knocking-off, eventuated at Gisborne, Poverty
Bay (M.L.), Oct. 9,
and the district rose
as one man in honor
of its famed discoverer.
Sitting on the beach,
within a few yards of
where the bewigged
world-finder first
planted his venture-
some feet, I can see,
across the bay, the
first land sighted —
Young Nick’s Head —
so named because first
seen by the En-
deavor’s boy, Nicholas
Something. “ Cook’s
Day” is to be an in-
stitution, and was in-
augurated in the first
instance to gather in
the necessary for a
lasting memorial to
the old man, towards
which a right-thinking
Govt, (in the absence
of the chief cook and
swashbuckler) voted £6OO. Gisborne
returns to Parliament the only native
in the Ministry—Hon. James Carroll
(Timi Kara), a jovial soul, a fluent
speaker, and all-round favorite. At
Gisborne’s initial railway-run recently,
the Minister, seeing the natives about
to do a haka, leaped in front and led
them with all the old Maori verve
and vigor—to the immense diversion
of the crowd.
* * *
“ Nymal In the early stirring
days Wangaratta (Vic.) was the cross-
ing-place for teams, mails, and diggers
bound to Spring Creek (near Beech-
worth) woolshed, Indigo and Buck-
land. The hotel (Meldrum’s), where
drinks were, in those days, often sold
at a pound each, was lately demolished,
as unsafe, and the workmen found
several lbs. of loose gold in the
crevices of the flooring—flotsam, pro-
bably, of the early lucky diggers’
winnings.
“ L.8.E.” says a word for the dilettante
dog:
" Dogs are followers of Carlyle. They hold that the only
happiness for a.dog in this life is to find his work and to
do it. The idle, dilettante, non-working, aristocra-
tic dog they have no use for.” I do not agree with
“ Banjo." Surely a dog should be something more than
a slave or a machine, to be kicked or worked to death by
some brutal owner. He is a sensitive, affectionate
animal, and should be ornamental rather than vulgarly
useful; a companion rather than a servant. We have a
dog, a one-eyed bull-terrier, that has never done a tap in
his life, and yet is as happy, as delightful, and as wise a
being as could be desired. He is worth his weight in
gold ; for, though not exactly a thing of beauty—-at least,
to strangers—he is a “ little ray of sunshine ”in the
house. He doesn’t run messages, light the fire, or mind
the baby, but he lavishes onus the wealth of his priceless
and unpurchaseable affection. He is not “ useful,” like a
coal-heaver or an ice-cream man ; and we don’t value
him, commercially, for the amount of work he performs
in return for his board and residence ; but we love him,
sesthetically, for himself alone. He lives in the city, and
leads the life of a dog of pleasure. He rises late,
takes a little exercise in the forenoon, sleeps on the
sofa in the afternoon, takes up a prominent position
before the fire in the evening, and retires to rest, in a
spare room, at about midnight. He is slightly epicurean
in taste. He won’t look at raw meat, overdone steak,
dog-biscuits, or other articles that appeal to the ordinary
canine ; but he likes grilled chops, rabbit pie, boiled
liver, coffee-biscuits and cheese. Though lazy, he is
lithe and powerful, and can hold his own with the best of
them. He was the only dog (four-legged) that attended
the opening of the Federal Parliament, at Melbourne
Exhibition Building. He sat under a chair, growled
when the band played, and wisely went to sleep during
the Duke’s speech. No, he is not a worker, but we love
him for his qualities of mind and soul. He is an artist,
who views life sympathetically, but cynically and com-
placently ; and he tries to make the most of the
moments as they pass. For him, no business worries, no
religious frauds, no shabby politics, no crude commer-
cialism. He is a dreamer. And perhaps his is the best
philosophy, after all 1
* * f •
“D.W.” : Oan anybody explain the fond-
ness of dogs for music ? Very few people recog-
nise this, the majority imagining that because dogs
howl when musio is played they dislike it. But
has anyone ever seen a dog run away out of hear-
ing when a piano or concertina is played ? [Yes,
most emphatically.—Ed. B.] Dogs invariably sit
as close as possible to the source of the sounds
[Not always; they sometimes bolt for their
lives], and (when they do howl) howl loudly
with lifted heads. The howling is not due to
pain. It is an endeavor to join in the harmony.
I once knew a dog that would gallop from a
distant paddock the moment the wind brought
the sound of a piano playing in his owner’s house ;
and I have seen a drover playing the concertina
while six dogs sat round him trying vainly to pick
up the tune in a series of ghastly howls. [Have
also seen a dog bite the player.] The dog
is really the most musical of animals, but his ear
is not good. [His teeth are, though.] One
day somebody will strike a dog with a good
ear for music, and will teach him to sing grand-
opera. [Have already struck that dog, with a
chair-leg, to make him cease tearing the player’s
dress off her.] That dog will be such a boom,
Melba and De Reszke will have to go upon the
distressed actors’ fund.
• * • *
“ Willcar ” : I have proved the uselessness
of McGirr’s bird-frightening device (B. 20/10/’O2)
of hanging small mirrors on fruit trees. Flags, if
there’s wind to wave them, answer better; but
nothing really stops green-leeks when properly on
the job. They wreck a tree in a few minutes,
and you can use a waddy all the time.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will he taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
Algol: (1) It is a good thing for the State to keep
a record of religions. In this case it has enabled it to
demolish a bogey with which a few ignorant and un-
scrupulous bigots were trying to scare the people into
something like civil war. (2) Your theory that the
Democratic Party should simply pass the Old Age
Pension Act, and leave Fat Man to find the money,
is utterly silly. He doesn’t find it. He Just lets
deficits mount up so as to prove to the timid and
half-hearted majority that Democratic legislation means
ruin....J.A.: Too Victor Daleyish; and V.D. can do
all the V.D.-ing that’s wanted in this paper E.M.P. :
Do you mean it for a solemn joke to class Prince Albert
with Buddha, Tolstoi, and Mirabeau as a great man ?. ...
E.B.J. : You’re a bold man, indeed, to try an ode to the
Pyramids, which have faced so many odes in their day...
Ahau: Your letter will be sent on to the perpetrator,
who, by the way, is a wholesome young man who culti-
vates all the domestic virtues in a suburban home ; it’s
much too long for publication (if you intended that)....
E.L.: In “ Dew," images are not at all natural. You give
the “ dew-spirit ” golden curls, diamonds and emeralds;
at one moment she has “ flails,” at another a “ chalice."
“ To-morrow ” much better W.M. W. : A nicely told-of
hug; but only a hug, not a story R.O. : Beware the
word-traps. How can even spirits sing to you “ in-
conceivable themes ; ” and you can’t rhyme “ ward ”
and “board" in a sonnet W.A.W. : No thanks;
it’s a poor game to adopt another paper’s libel.
You get a lot of the kicks and none of the fun....
M.H.: Can’t undertake to accept matter in advance
from anybody. This paper only prints what suits
it, and has absolutely no respect for mere names....
Nial Mor: You tell a horse-story with the stately
solemnity of a grand funeral W. Brookman : That
drtwingis all right. The two oentral figures are fronting
the beholder... .C’Wall: The English and the German
nations will unite when one eats the other—and only
then. The English and the Germans are closely related,
but “ a man’s enemies shall be of his own house-
hold.” The two races cordially detest each other,
each regarding the other as insufferably insolent....
O.J.H. : Below mark... .11.5. R. : Make your pars, short,
snappy, and Australian.... Waif: Rather out of our line.
Stray: It doesn’t strike us as a real sob Klux :
Flat as the Old Man Plain.... Derelict :No use re-sub-
mitting unless asked. Yarn should prove acceptable in
some other quarter... .E.W.D. : English antiquities off
our beat.... E.M. :No sugar in your stick J.D. :On
too familiar lines... .T. Maring : A very unlikely sort of
woman.. ..Burn : You are a very faint humorist....
The Prooshan : “ They quickly distinguish the gentle-
man from the mere man." What snobbery 1 Where
there’s no man there’s no gentleman... .Gum Sapling:
Not enough in it Miner : Too flimsy and fragmentary.
8.0.F. : Quite unsuited to Bulletin F.W.M. :
Neither hits us hard enough Ardmore : A weary
waste of words.... W.A.D. : Too much elaborate exposi-
tion. In a short story characters should be touched
off freely... .Dime : A dense tangle of fine phrases....
W.S. : Ballad prettily versed, but it’s all been said too
often before... .Pariah : There would be a good yarn in a
“ battling ” comp.’s experiences, but yours is too palpably
made up....Kep.: (1) Phrase not exactly original,
adapted; (2) verses are Morant’s, not Lawson’s
Yarlsop : Hardly vivid enough J.H. (Bendigo): Good
sketch subject.... Glenara : “ With Rain ” rather arid....
Rita S. : It crawls where it ought to gallop Harry A. :
Send your exposure of “ egoistic old gents." to some
other paper; metre too juvenile for us A.M.M.:
Crazy bushman fighting his swag : that is a platitude....
Helen M. : Promising subject, dull treatment.. ..A.D.P.;
Your “ Bridge of Fancies ” hasn’t a fancy in it Jason s
(1) Images in “Besieged” rather confused. (2) What
end do you seek ? Verse fairly good, but not specially
distinguished ; if j'ou have a fund of experiences better
try prose G.K. : Your yum-yum is most unconvincing.
Nada : Verses showed distinct promise D.M.R.:
Just misses D.K.T. : Sentiment heard 100 times
before.... William C.: Sheol as a bright subject for poetry
is getting played out... .M.C.F. : Much merit, but occa-
sionally sinks to the bathetic Unsuitable : Jayonge,
0.H.L., The Wanderer, Will Mac, J.H.S.,Geo. K..H.L.R.,
Okis, F.C.W., R.C., A.C. Me., Curlew, Wells Spinifex :
Smart, but over-frisky... .L.S.IL : It is for you to claim
for what you have written ; but it is for us to say in what
guise your work is to appear... .Lola : “Incurable” for
print The Nut (M.L.) : Slow as a funeral
Mirrumbeck : That brick-story a variant upon a very
antiquated yarn.... Oktis : “ Wilga ’’ has some good
touches, but is otherwise conventional and flat....
J.T.G.: Not enough in it W.A.F. : Prose preachy and
verse vague... .Proambo: Lacks force and finish....
A.L. A.: Little literary gift.. Oudeis: Under consideration.
M. : Don’t remember your “ long poem.” What was
its title ?.... Wanderer: Material good enough, but we
couldn’t undertake to recast... .Henry A.: Much too
crude and clumsy Pereger: Lacks vigor of descrip-
tion Cuss : Too “ high ’’—which is to say too low— for
print I.M.C. : Pathos in it, but situation too hack-
neyed.. ..P.F.M.: Basketed accordingly..,.St. B. : Kind
of smouldering merit about it that never bursts into
flame Daffodill: Verses commonplace and metrically
weak. Prose sketch may have a show W.J.: Too
much of it for print T. George: Well-written in a
tamely conventional way Sandy B. : More rhyme than
reason J.W.W.: Style oppressively ponderous, without
the compensation of being correct... .A.F.8.: Just fails.
Bunnie: (1) Will look up “One too Many”; (2)
Verse declined after some hesitation Jason: Not
quite up to mark A.G.R. : Prettily done, but off our
track.... Andrew S.: Some metrical faults.... Experientia:
Hard to convince a horsey public that anybody could be
so ineffably silly Q.N. : Christian Science satire too
long Euroa: Very laborious humor.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Samoro : Stamps sent with drawings submitted for con-
sideration should accompany the drawings, not the letter.
W. Ower: No point, because there is no law that
youths under 10 shall not buy tobacco Spinifex :
Rather mysterious; we are not up in hen habits
J.A.C. : “Bald” subject a very nice drawing, but the
joke is also hairless. Unavailable : Will Neye, G.F.L.,
Mack, H. Higginson.


In a recent speech before a young men’s society,
i L H '“‘id " a few words of .advice.
*lrst of all, they must have pluck, if they had
not got pluck, let them clear out and play ping-
pong. (Laughter.) There was no pluck wanted
for that M
The very game for Geo, Reid ! Premier
of N.S.W, for five years, and never the
“ pluck ” to introduce Freetrade
The bunyip, which was seen up Murrumbidgee way last week by some veracious
citizens and a fisherman, was caught this morning by the latter on a bream-line,
“ Hop.” has this yarn from an amateur fisherman.
DOGS IN THE MANGER.
ONE MAN IN A BOAT : Ob
LYNE’S PICNIC.
‘‘The N.S.W. electoral departs
ment believes that there will be
no difficulty in collecting the
names of women entitled to vote
It is intended to instruct the
police not to accept the first refu
sal as final, but, if necessary, to
coax each woman to give her
name, so that she may be en
rolled.”
The-most god-like members of the foorea should
be selected for this job
Dog in the Tub : “ What ! you don’t mean to say you thought of takm<»
a bath here ! Be off, or I’ll ” The unwashed flies in terror
THAT FIREBALL STORM.
Ist Citizen : “I shay, ole f’ler, I
b’lieve it’s the end of the world ! ”
2nd Citizen ; “ Yes, or Mafeking
night come back un(Aic)spectedly
—damfino ’Which.”
—to the seashore, where he is confronted by the Cerberus-of the beach.
Iheman who would wash If he could now patches the experiment of
substituting petroleum for water, in sprinkling the streets, with breathless
interest.
CARTOONLETS.


MELBA AT LILLYDADfc
OLD 30MB SITED
There were old folks wbo waved their hand'
kerchiefs to Madame Melba a* she drove through
■Lillydale oi> Saturday who saw again a way-
ward child who used to charm them with her
merry talk and laug'bter and terrify them by
the reckless etc s^sr-^c
'ftje
The nautical expert committee, having con-
r fiidered the circumstances attending the ground-
ing of the American schooner Churchhill in the
West channel (No. 8 buoy) on October 15, re-
corded their opinion that no blame was attach-
able to the pilot, and that he be accordingly
exonerated. It was shown that the channel had
shoaled at the point of the grounding. The
report was unanimously adopted, and the board
farther decided that the pilots should be officially
-notified that at this point in the channel the
future draught of water for ships should be
limited to 17ft. at low water. All other per
eons concerned will be notified by tlie Ports and
.JHgrljors branch in the usual way.
oaK
Ijjs
l,ffl e Wirier wl je& Itfc
S«H |?€C}>ir7P "7 r> < foKT?
Vs littie CK'Adlle w l /
of tji^elj'
/ —--' pSV'- ,i I'°''. ■,ec' 1 ® 4 V
v *&<N <V 9 v** ,
✓ *£>£s** *v / <?
,<* C/ ;
ljast 76". « Fiotoria alone, 313 criminals
who had been four or more times convicted,
and who nearly all belonged to the profes-
eronal class of thieves and burglars, were
set at liberty, most of them after serving
very short sentences in gaol. The existing
system of punishing habitual criminals fails
altogether in checking crime, and has no
curative effect whatever. Indeed the crimi-
nal rather welcomes a few months’ deten-
tion in Pentridge as a means of recruiting
his health.
W <
'tVuc
\|e l^
W
if
Ife t
Qy\nj)*l^
OgS^tf
-
rr]C. "rtf* r»jon«y
{ i'll "Hfe,
ujQ- oj'
*Va« \ ‘ ‘ i )
1 On the night of Friday last a female child, 14
days old, was found lying in the garden of Dr.
Flett, at Auburn. Information was given to the
police, and the child was handed to the care of
a registered nurse at Auburn. It was after-
wards brought before the local court on a charge-
of being a neglected child, and remanded to
the Royal Park, being finally boarded out to a
wet-nurse.
Jhtwr-r)--**.*' f 111
Tv3t£ d s?k: syr
l2. trjoniy)*-
RELIEF WORK IN THE MaLLEE.
The Rev R. M'Gowan readily consented to
an interview He said ; -“Whatever is done
needs to be done very quietly. That is why I
think the aid of the clergy should be enlisted
Many a man would gladly accept help from his
clergyman which he would scorn to take from
anyone else.”
6pa>K -Vltffsli)« p>ns>jei' w<*s ?
Q'R.orKe - ' Resign’ fse police
rt7c Un»fom ?«•* 3>nner •
the delinquencies of . the Rodney ,
Waterworks Trust in getting .water for
which it never paid. But Rodney is not to
be allowed to luxuriate upon the proceeds
of its cupidity. Mr. Irvine made the wel-
-1 «ome disclosure that the House was to be <
asked to. reimpose upon the trust its liability
in connection with the main channel, so as
to make it fall into ljne with all the other
trust*- f
N
\ {*
A V 1,7
* \ povfe*'-
Mr. Edmund Barton enlarged upon the
announcements he has already made upon
this subject He took up the stand that it
was the duty of Australia to contribute to
a mobile Imperial l -'"navy. Australia coaM
| not afford to build a navy of her own, and _
it was unlikely that a Parliament whioh
refused to advance loan money except for
reproductive works would give loan money
for an Australian squadron. 1
A remarkably fine map of the world, showing
the British empire colored red. has been issued
by the Navy League, and a specimen is now
i on view at Mullen’s. The map is very boldly /
jfe designed, the dimensions being 72in. by 63iu. f
All the naival stations are shown, and the great 1
X - 1 British steamship lines, with their respective \
i flags, are also delineated. The locality of the l
principal naval actions in Britain’s history is (L
by small red cannons, and a vast mass
9f information on the subject of the navies of
khe great powers, the expenditure on war-
ships . Ac.
' Co"!® ort »
{ J \ nrj
Ww+~ Ott p b-r *
~i# *
**
MOSTLY MELBOURNIAN.


A. SAUNDERS.
Unrivalled non-magnet LEVER.
Perfect Timekeeper, Sorew Cases,
dust and water tight, 20s.
S.lver, 355. Hunters, £2.
A written Guarantee given with
each Watch.
20s.
20s
A. SAUNDERS.
BUSHMEN AND MTNTOR.H.
ROTHERHAM SPECIAL MALE ENGLISH
LEVERS, Full Oap, Hand Finished, Extra
Jewelled Woiks, PerfeetTimekeeper, with Pure
Silver Oases, Dust and Water Tight, £8 10s.
Extra duality, with Chronometer Balance,
£4los, £5, £5 10s, £6, £7, £8 ;
Solid Gold, £lO, £l5, £2O.
A written certificate for 8,4, 5, and 6 years.
Try one ; you will not regret it.
/ey.
&310 s.
Keyless
£ 5.
Fine
Dial
255.
Kailway
Dial,
30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
NEW MODEL LONDON LEVER,
3-Plate, Pull Ruby Jewelled,
Chron. Balance, jewelled Lever, Double Roller,
Jewelled, Brynet. Patent Time Spring.
355, 80s. Silver Hunter, £2 10s, £3.
Will last 25 years.
Kept in repair for two years
free of charge.
ERI
m
■■■:■
■
"WALTHAM LEVERS.
We are Direct Buyers.
Pure Solid Silver Hunting Cases, Extra
Quality Movements.
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, and £5 ;
Gold I’atent Cases, Walthams, £4 4s, £5 5s :
Solid Gold, £7 10s, £lO, £l2los,
£l5, £2O, and £25.
3,4, 5, and 6 Years’ Guarantee.
Solid
Silver,
£2 10s.
Gold
Cased,
M 4s.
Double
Case,
£6.
r
w
W'buf
TB"
“FLY-BACK CHRONOMETERS.”
These we have at Every Prioeaad Style. In Solid
Nickel or Black, 30s ; Extra Quality, £2, £2 10s;
Split Seconds, £3los. Pure Solid Silver, as above,
£5, £6, £7, £B, and £10; Solid Gold, £l5, £2O,
£25, and £3O.
A written certificate for 2,3, 4,5, and 6 years.
TRY ONE.
Solid
Silver,
£5.
18ct.
Solid
Gold, £lO
Extra
Strong,
£l2los
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Solid Gold Keyless WALTHAM
LKVIiiK, iull Jewelled Works, Patent
Action, New Model £lO, £l2 10s.
You Oan’t get a Bettci Watch.
14ct. Solid Gold, £8 10s.
I
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold LOCKETS
7s 6d, 10s, 15s,
17s 6d, 20s,
255, 30s.
Post Card Gold
CHARM, 10s.
Any Name Eree.
Silver, gilt, 5s 6d.
15ct. Gold
Turquoise
Force t-
me-Not
and
Peapl
Scroll,
20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless WATCH,
Full Jewelled, 255, 80s, £2,
£2 10s.
Price to quality of works.
Guaranteed 2,8, 4 years.
A. SAUNDERS.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
"Watch Guaranteed.
Silver Hunting Keyless, 2Es, 30s, £2,
£2 10s, £3.
Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3, £4, £5 ;
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
ALL GUARANTEED.
Floral
PIN,
Pearl and
Tur-
quoise,
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Black Keyless WATCH,
Good Timekeeper, 15s;
Extra Quality, 20s.
GUARANTEED.
A. SAUNDERS.
Secret
Gold LOCKET,
20s.
Gold Boot
CHARM, 5s 6d.
Latest Style.
Solid
Gold,
£6 10s.
Silver,
£2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
LADIES’ WALTHAM SOLID
GOLD KEYLESS,
f-moyement, Chronometer Balance,
Jewelled, Perfect Timekeeper,
Extra Strong Cases.
Full Size, £6 10s ; Small Size, £5 10s
Pure Solid Silver, same works, £2 10s
Solid Gold CHAIN (Single or Double), £3, £3los, £4
£4los, £a. 15et. Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6, £6 10s, £7, JBB
£lO. Pure Silver, 10s, l‘2s 6d, 15s, 20s. Send for Price
Illustrated Book. Guaranteed English Hall-marked
GoId'BROOCH. 2 Bur Diamond, with 4 Red or
Blue IS tones, 20s.
w
_ A. SAUNDERS,
fewest Solid Gold Name BROOCH. 7s 6d:
with Raised Flowers each side (Any Name),
15ct. Gold, 15s. Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Ivy and Pearl Gold BROOCH, 255 ;
9ct. Gold, smaller, 12s 6d.
„ A. SAUNDERS.
"totto Reu'isf ered Gold “ Dinna Forget ’
BROOCH and Amethysts, 9ct. Gold, 17s 6d;
loot. Gold, 30s ; '[Set. Gold, 355.
A. SAUNDERS,
15ct. Gold, Diamonds and Rubies,
■with Ivy Leaves, 255.
Very Cheap.
A. SAUNDEKS.
15ct. Gold Pure Double-cut 5-Diamon(
BJttOOCH, £i 4s.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Style 2-Bar Gold BROOCH,
Diamond and two Red Stones, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Gold Forget-Me-Not BROOCH,
English HaU-marked, 10s.
No. 1.
Radies’ Solid Gold Long MUFF CHAINS,
Hand Made, Extra Strong, £3, £3 10s, £4;
15ct. Gold, £4 los, £5, £6, £7 10s.
Price According to Strength.
Ladies’ Curb Gold
Chain, Snap Padlock,
255, 30s, 355, £2 ss,
£3; 15ct., £2 10s, £3,
£4, £4 10s, £5, £6,
£7 10s, £B, £9, £lO.
10s extra for Key
Padlock.
All with Safety Chain.
A. SAUNDERS.
Diamond BRACELET, 15ct. Gold, three Pure Double Cut Diamonds,
with Safety Chain, £5.
Pure Pearl NECKLETS, Solid Gold, Very Latest Style,
£3 5s ; 15ct. Extra Quality, £5.
No. 2.
Ladies’ Solid Gold Long MUST? CHAINS,
Hand Made, Extra Strong, £B, £3 10s, £4
15ct. Gold £4 10s, £5, £6, £7 10s.
Price According to Strength.
15ct. Gold 2-Heart with 2
Opal Hearts, Ivy Leaf,
Knot, and Diamond,
£2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Jsct. Gold Pearl and
Turquoise Eloral and
Ribbon BROOCH, £2 10s.
London’s Newest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Raised Flowers, 5s 6d.
Larger, 6s 6d and 7s 6d.
No. 3.
Ladies’ Solid Gold Gong MUFF CHAINS,
Hand Made, Extra Strong, £3, £3 10s, £4 •
15et. Gold, £-1 10s, £5, £6, £7 10s.
Price According to Strength.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Style, Gold BROOCH, Hall-marked,
Diamond and 2 Red Stones, 22s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Newest Style, 15ct. Gold BROOCH, Pearl Set,
32s 6d.
A. b.iuNDERS.
Soßd Gold, Hall-marked, Eorget-me-Not
BROOCH, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ot. 2-Bar Pure Diamond, Double Cut, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Extra Strong 15ct. Gold, Diamonds, Rubies,
and Pearls, £3 5s ;
5 Diamonds, £4, £5.
A. SAUNDEES.
(Kegisieredj.
Gold LINKS, 20s
loct. Gold, 32s Gel;
Silver and Gold, 10s;
all Silver, os.
A. SAUNDERS-.
Gold Dmna Forget,
10s 6d.
Our own Registered
Design,
A. SAUNDERS.
Set. Solid Gold LINKS.
Glam, 17s 6d, 20s, 25s ;
laid. Gold' £2, £2 5&, £2los.
Monogram 2s 6d extra.
Silver Initial HAT PINS,
Parisian Diamonds, 4s 6d ;
Turquoise, 8s 6d.
Solid Silver, Is 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Beautifully Chased, 9ct. Gold,
large size LINKS, 22s 6d.
Plain, 21s, or with Initials,
nicely Chased, 22s Gd.
15ct. Gold, £2; Silver, 4s Gd.
A. SAUNDERS,
loot. Gold Pearl and Turquoise
Heart BROOCH, £2 2s.
The Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lucky Heather,
Is, 2s, 3s ;
Gold, 7s 6d, 10s.
Call and See our
Jewellery
Exhibition.
A Splendid Display.
Or Send for our
1902 Complete
Illustrated Book,
Post Free Anywhere.
A. SAUNDERS.
Opal Band RINGS,
9ct. Solid Gold, 17s 6d;
15ct. Gold, 30s;
IBct. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
ISct. Buttercup Single
Stone Diamond
RING,
£3, £4, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
ISct. Gold, 5 Opals,
a-Hoop, £2, £2 10s,
£3, £3 10s.
GENT.'S RING.
Solid Gold, Amethyst, 25s
loot. Gold, £2 ;
ISct., £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ft. Solid Gold, 5 pure
Diamonds, £1210s;
Smaller, £5, JB6, £7,
£7 los, to £3O.
A. SAUNDERS.
ISct. Gold,
3 Pure Diamonds,
2 Opal Hearts, £4 10s.
Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS,
Oct. Solid Gold Buckle,
11s fid; loot. Gold, 30s ;
18ct. Gold, £2.
18ct. Solid Gold,
I’ure Diamond and
2 Rubies or
Sapphires, £2, £2 10s,
£3; 3 Diamonds.
£2 10s, £3, £4, £5.
Signet Plain RING,
Oct. Gold, 20s, 255;
15ct. Gold, 30s, 355;
18ct., £2, £2 10s.
With Name, Band RINGS,
9ot. Solid Gold, 12s 6d, 15s;
loot. Gold, 20s, 25s ;
18ut. Gold, 255, 30s, 355, £2.
18ct. Solid Gold,
5 Pure Diamonds, £5.
Diamond and Sapphire
or Ruby, £3 10s ;
larger, £1 10s, £5.
18ct. Solid Gold Diamond
Band, £2, £2 10s, £3;
15ct. Gold, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold,
3 Sapphires, Rubies,
or Opals, 4 Diamonds,
£3, £3 10s, £4,
£4 10s, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hand-made Wedding RINGS and KEEPERS.
9ct. Solid Gold, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s each ; 15ct. Gold, 15a
extra heavy, *2ss ; 18ct. Gold, 20s ;
extra heavy, 30s, 355, 40s. Send for Card.
A. SAUNDERS,
815 AND 817 GEORGE-ST.,
JEWELLER AND SILVERSMITH,
NEARLY OPPOSITE
RAILWAY STATION,
SYDNEY.


Mr. O. O. JOHNSON, Loomis, Neb., January
12, 1892, writes:
“ I have used Jayne’s Expectorant for the last thirty
years, and believe it to be the BEST COUGH REMEDY
KNOWN.”*
MARTELLS
“A genuine
old Brandy
made from
Wine.”
Medical Press.
THREE STAR
“Particularly suitable
for Medicinal
Purposes.”
The Lancet.
BRANDY
GOOD HEALTH
implies freedom from physical
pain and disorder. It means
strength, energy, power; power to
think well, work well, eat well, sleep
well. It means being “fit/ 5 fit for home
duties, fit for business, fit for pleasure,
fit for everything. It means money—money saved
and money earned. Indigestion destroys good health.
It multiplies worries, breeds disease and fills the doctor’s
purse. Mother Seigel’s Syrup prevents indigestion and
cures it. It cures in Nature’s way, with Nature’s remedies
the healing juices of roots and herbs from field and
forest. Its daily use is a guarantee of good digestion,
which is the foundation of good health. Says Mrs.
C. Barndon, 46, Lydia Street, Brunswick, Victoria,
Feb. 27th, 1902: “ For two years I suffered martyrdom
from acute indigestion. I tried many different medicines, but got no
relief until I took Mother Seigel’s Syrup, three bottles of which com-
pletely cured me. I can now sleep well, my appetite is good, and I
can perform my duties with ease.” Beware of imitations.
-A\.OTH E R
CURATIVE
,1
A
[Cr^A
A Very
Fine Lady
and com-
pletely
RUN
DOWN
during
the hot,
sultry
weather.
Her only
hope is
PHOSPHERINE
the Great
BLOOD
BUILDER
and NERVE
TONIC.
ANiEMIA
and Poor
Blood are
conquered by
Fisher & C o’s
Phospherine
It sharpens
the Appetite,
induces
Sound Sleep
and Cheerful
Spirits.
It ensures
Rich Blood
and
constant
Good
Health
v
PHOSPHERINE
CURES THE WEARY, NERVOUS SUFFERERS,
WORRY KILLS BUSINESS MEN,
PHOSHERINE SAVES MEN.
ii
33
The Best Medicine Ever Made.
FISHER & CO.’S
PHOSPHERINE
The Most FAMOUS TONIC fbr
Delicate Gentlemen, Ladies & Children.
Removes Headaches,
Strengthens the Nerves,
Cures Brain Fag,
Repression and Debility.
UNSOLICITED TESTIMONIAL FROM THE SOOTH.
Messrs. Fisher and Co., 337 George-st, Sydney.
Barrengarry, June 25,1901.
Dear Sirs,—l must write and tell you that your PHOS-
PHERINE is a splendid medicine for the HEAD and
NERVES. I believe it is the BEST MEDICINE EVER
MADE. I will never be without it. It seems to brace up
the whole system, and is undoubtedly an unequalled
tonic.—Yours faithfully,
WILLIAM HAY.
FISHER and CO.,
Leadingr Homoeopathic Chemists of Australia,
PHARMACY-
-337 OEORQE STREET,
Nearly Opposite 0.P.0., SYDNEY.
ALL PILULES and TINCTURES FRESH and POTENT.
Our BOTTLES contain TWICE THE QUANTITY
of the IMPORTED ARTICLE.
This Preparation has been a Boon
and Blessing to the public tor
nearly Twenty Years.
During the Hot Weather,
PHOSPHERINE
The Greatest Blood Builder and
Nerve Tonic of the Century,
ANAEMIA
HEADACHE
NEURALGIA
NERVOUSNESS
ST. VITUS’ DANCE
LUMBAGO
SCIATICA
PARALYSIS
RHEUMATISM
BACKACHE
PALPITATION
INDIGESTION
POOR COMPLEXION
SKIN COMPLAINTS
GENERAL DEBILITY
KIDNEY TROUBLE
LIVER COMPLAINTS
FAINTING FITS
IRREGULARITIES
WOMEN’S AILMENTS
The Genuine PHOSPHEBIXE may be obtained from
All Chemists ; also from Messrs. PATTIXSON and OO.;
Ltd., eifcv and suburbs ; WASHINGTON H. SOIJL and
CO., ANTHONY HORDERN and SONS, and Every-
where.
One Shilling 1 per bottle, post free,
you,!' Times the Quantity, 2s. 6d,
A. B. Worthington.
DEFENDED BY HIS WIFE.
Editor. Bulletin. —Sir,— The articles in the papers relative
to A. B. Worthington (my husband) were too untrue to
allow me to keep silence and make no protest. It is
easy to make atrocious statements against a man who
cannot defend himself. I did not expect The Bulletin
to add to the shocking and prejudged punishment
inflicted by the press, by which judge and jury were
strongly prejudiced against him before his trial. The
offence for which he was tried, condemned and punished
would have been, under the circumstances, committed
by 99 men out of every 100. Men, in their inmost hearts,
know that, and usually make allowance for each other’s
weaknesses.
My husband's offence dates from his arrival in Maori-
land; and it was not so much against society as
against the churches, who will not tolerate any teaching
that is not orthodox. On coming to Maoriland with
Sister Magdala to teach a new interpretation of Divine
Science, my husband never posed as the inventor
of a new religion. All the students under his
direction became familiar with Prof. Henry Drum-
mond, A. P. Barton, the Rev. Chas. Parkhurst, Emily
H. Cady, Emma Curtin Hopkins, and hosts of other
leading lights in this truth. The remarks from the Press
generally on his teaching are nothing more nor less than
gross stigmas upon his audiences, one of which you refer
to as “ a large and growing congregation of enthusiastic
and well-to-do people.” Amongst the congregation of
Sydney were people of noble character, with whom I, for
the first time since leaving Maoriland, was perfectly
happy—women and men whom I am proud to have
known. Would to Heaven I could have said the same of
Melbourne I
I now appeal to you for Justice. In the first place A.
B. Worthington did not break away from Sister Magdala,
nor did he cause her to leave him ; neither were they
living together as man and wife. My admiration for and
belief in her repentance for her past life compels me to
beg for justice for her, as well as for my husband. I have
all this from excellent authority (not my husband).
The real cause of the separation was as follows.
Mr. W., being overworked, was constrained to go
away for a change and rest. During his absence
Sister Magdala lectured. She made a statement that
she had long wanted to lecture to the people on material
matters, but that Mr. W. would not allow it; now that
lie was gone she would speak plainly, and to the purpose ;
which she did. The subject was an admissible one only
before an audience of one sex solely.
Sister Magdala had instituted what she called “ The
Ci der of the Temple,” all members of which had to bind
themselves to give up all indulgences, and to live a life of
denying the flesh ; married members, men and women, to
live as if single ; single members to take the vow of celi-
bacy. She herself lived up to her teaching—a life of
perfec* nurity—as all in her house (The Temple
llomdj jould and did testify. Her constant
companion and room-associate was one Miss Garstin, who
assumed the name of “ Sister Franc.” This young lady
was loved and respected by all who knew her. She was
with Sister Magdala to the very end. Had there been
any relations between her and my husband, all respect
would have been forfeited, and an end to the Order
of the Temple would have ensued. On Mr. W.’s
return from his tour, the Temple Committee laid a formal
complaint before him in re Sister Magdala’s lecture,
and asserted that she must promise never to lecture
in that way again before she would be allowed to
re-enter the Temple. This she would not do. The com-
mittee then set watch over the Temple doors, and did
not allow her admittance. For some weeks every influ-
ence possible was brought to bear upon her, without
result, when, one Sunday evening during service, she
left the Temple Home with Miss Garstin.
That “an insatiable hankering for a girl” caused Mr.
Worthington to break with Sister Magdala is not true.
I did not at that time know him: neither did
Sister Magdala turn away half of the people, for
she never had an audience again in Christchurch.
It is not true that Sister Magdala could not live
without him, for she and Sister Franc had a very happy
life together; they founded a Community Home, and
“treated" (healed) people. They wrote a small book,
entitled “The Better Way,” dealing with the sex subject.
Finally she married a most estimable gentleman. My
belief is she could not reconcile herself to married life,
and her fanaticism in reference to that subject had un-
hinged her mind, and that she was not responsible for
the act that deprived her of life. She was a lovely woman,
but her severity killed the love that he retained. She
would have made a splendid Mother Abbess.
Sister Magdala had the ordering of the Temple Home
from its inception, during its building and its furnishing.
Hers was the guiding hand. So much had been spent on
the Temple itself that the Home was elegant but plain.
There never was a pink-tiled bath ; there were no pink,
gold or white rooms as described by you, and the
“ massaging damsels” would have had a bad time, and
certainly would not have been tolerated either by Sister
Magdala or the people who were members or students.
To the credit of Maoriland and Sydney, be it said,
my husband was never associated there with women. It
was in Melbourne that he fell. The cause of his fall was
the result of orthodox persecution. Mr. W., after his
.conversion to his teaching, had made up his mind to live
up to his high ideals, but, like many another man, cir-
cumstances were too much for him When he had
attracted a splendid congregation in M.L., and it was
found that he was hurting the church, and did not preach
a Hell of fire and brimstone, an enemy hunted up from
the Police Gazette facts re the career of one Worthington,
which he embodied in a pamphlet and sold copies for Is.
The proceeds of this, with added collections, were sent to
the Chief of Police, New York, America, with the said
pamphlets, requesting that a detective be sent out to
take Mr. Worthington back to America, where he should
be punished for his bigamous propensities. The reply
was, I believe, that the man had been shot by one
of his wives on board a steamer. Not contented with
this, this man communicated with the Colonial Secre-
tary in London, who interfered on his behalf, and
was told that had Worthington really been so bad,
and was now doing so well, that they had better
leave him alone. An enemy was responsible for a party
of women from his congregation wrecking the garden and
furniture of Mr. W.’s private house, in Magdala’s time.
When my eldest child was born, every window in my
house was smashed. The Riot Act was read, and police
protection had to be afforded to the Temple.
Finally, we decided to try Hobart. After us came
those pamphlets ; the lies contained in them being
credited, prevented our getting a living. We then
(unfortunate move) went to Melbourne. Again
those accursed pamphlets pursued us, and we
were almost starved. For six months we could
not get a hall even. Then this woman came. The
fretting brought on me so severe an illness that my life
was given up. During this illness I received the most
devoted care from my husband. He has always been
devoted to myself and his children. It was whilst in this
dire need that he had her money. His wife dangerously
ill, his children wanting food, 99 out of every hundred
men would have done as he did. What man who has
taken money from a woman can coolly cast her aside T
Had he deserted me, I could have compelled him to con-
tribute to my support. When I refused to live in the
same place as that woman, he had to desert her, and a
prejudiced Press, Judge and jury gavehim seven years.
In delicate health, and with a family of four young
children to support, the youngest a month old, J am
destitute. My people in Maoriland will receive me,
but I cannot even pay my fare over, and they have it not.
The women of Sydnej', who gave me the only happy time
I have had since my marriage, have been ministering
angels. They have paid my rent, kept us, and have nursed
me during my confinement. These noble women have
been my comfort and stay, God bless them ! You speak
of my husband as devoting all his time to the care of his
skin and the exercising of his muscles ; it is not true.
He was too busy a man to be wasting time. Three lectures
every week, attendance at church in the day time,
weekly concerts and entertainments, the school, &c.,
always left him exhausted. What other parson has a
record to show for such an amount of work, week in and
week out, ever since I have known him?
As for his wrong-doing, I recognise it, and I take into
consideration his circumstances. Trusting that you
will believe that not even the devil is as black as he is
painted,
I am, yours, etc.,
JSva Worthington,
Harrow-st., Stanmore.
P.S. —My servant, who has been six years with us, can
describe to you the Temple House. The apartment
belonging to my husband was as plainly furnished,
almost, as a hermit’s cell.
At Poverty Point.
George Rignold once “ fell in ”in Cornwall, Eng. H#
and a friend were filling ’em up in a pub. late one night,
when a little miner came in, and rather boisterously
wanted to know who the etcetera George was. “ Tchut 1"
whispered George’s friend. “Go easy; he’s a prize-
fighter.” The little man’s eyes brightened. Here, indeed,
was a chance—he had never had a smack at a real prize-
fighter. Off came his coat, and he was into George like
a streak of lightning. And history sayeth that it took
His Royal Moustaches half-an-hour to pull his head out
of the woodwork of the door.
“ J.F.D." : Noticed, t’other night, the “ boss ”of a
theatrical show amongst the audience at his own house,
and could not but admire him for the mirth he seemed to
derive from the wheezes. Every small hit made him look
round encouragingly at the humorless dogs who did not
see the point. I helped him in the laugh biz out of sheer
good nature. A boss who can laugh at an alleged joke
which he has heard about 60 times must be a real actor.
Oourtice Pounds, the onetime charming tenor of
Gilbert and Sullivan operas, played Touchstone, the
clown, in Robert Courtneidge’s recent revival of “As You
Like It.” Tub Bulletin always respected Pounds for his
determination to be something more than an ordinary
musical specialist, and because he used to rail against
Australian inappreciation of the local talent in chorus-
singing. When spoken of as “ the Firm’s new tenor,"
the little man waxed mad. “ I’m not a ‘ tenor.’ I’m an
actor and dancer, with a tenor voice.” Are some of the
gentle ballad singers listening ?
The winter has been cold for poor little Johnny Cole-
man. A “ ben.” advertised for him in an up-country
S. A. township, of all places in the world—“detained here
by an accident which required medical treatment.”
“ Kodak ”: Albert Chevalier, in his chatty auto-
biography, “ Before I Forget," relates that when the
editor of N. Y. Herald was showing him over the building
they came to a little room lined with pigeon-holes.
“What room is this?’ I inquired. ‘Obituary-notice
room,’ was the reply. Then, with a twinkle in his eye,
the editor called an attendant and asked him to look in
pigeon-hole * o.’ for * Chevalier.’ There was a pause, and
a little bundle of papers was handed to me for my inspec-
tion and, 1 suppose, approval. The bundle contained the
necessary ‘ copy ’ in case of my premature demise.”
London Billposters’ Association exercises a censorship
over posters, and recently refused to put on the walls
certain bills, one of which is described as “ A man in the
act of strangling a woman dressed in a night-robe, having
words at the bottom of the bill, ‘ I will be your execu-
tioner.’” The Association, in fact, strikes against any
brutally sensational pictures. There’s a great welcome
awaiting any organisation which will undertake similar
work in Australia. It is an outrage on the public that
there should be no restraint on the brutality of hoarding
advertisers.
A French civil court has spread some dismay in green-
rooms by ruling “ that the husbands of actresses must
be allowed to go behind the scenes or remain in the
dressing-rooms of the theatres in which their wives are
engaged.” The problem is largely one of finding room j
so many actresses have so many husbands.
The Actor : “ Lend me a couple of pounds, old chap 5 I
don’t get paid until to-morrow.” The Reporter: “ Sorry,
old boy, I haven’t a cent. I was paid yesterday."—Thi
Smart Set (London).
Pinero, at latest dates, had challenged Sir Edward
Russell to prove the truth of his assertion that “Gay
Lord Quex ” is essentially an immoral play. Australia
remembers Quex as a person who, having enjoyed a good
time as a reprobate, seemed fairly anxious to settle down
and confine himself to the affections of one wife. Sophie,
the manicurist, was also a moral character in her hard,
businesslike way, and Quex’s friend, the tired man from
the West African Gold Coast, had no particular vice,
though he showed a weakness for young and “ alluring"
creatures. If Pinero’s comedy had any lesson to impart,
it was the lesson that nothing can be more indelicate than
the respectability of right-thinking shop-girls. Each girt
in turn became virtuously indignant when Sophie put the
innocent question—“ Have you never slept in a strange
bed ? ”
“ Theorbo ” : Marchesi’s autobiog. is before me. Tne
book is short, and Melba can only get a few pages. How-
ever, she is done full justice to. Marchesi is of German
birth. Her maiden name was Graumann. Signor
Marchesi was an Italian opera singer. The great teacher
did not sing much in opera, but was a favorite on the
concert platform, yet never of the first rank. She says her
motto is “Faith and Perseverance.” Very good, but no
good unless you have the gifts. If you have them,
Marchesi’s book itself shows how superb songbirds—De
Murska to wit—can throat it well enough without any
Marchesi. The more we look into it the less tangible
appears what she did for Melba. Of course, Melba does
not owe her present splendid position to her voice alone ;
the masterfulness of her nature and her iron constitu-
tion have been essential factors in her success.


SPECTACLES
-FOR—
DEFECTIVE
VISION, to
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
dress, with full in-
structions and Price List, our marvellously-accurate
and popular SELF SICHT-MEASURINC PATENT.
By its use you can Test your own sight and de-
termine for yourself the style and quality' of the
glasses you may need. Write for it to—
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
371 George-st., Sydney, next A.J.S. Bank,
“Don’t shout”
" I hear you, 1 can hear now
as well as anybody.
"• How 5 ’ Oh some
thingnew— The Wilson
Common-sense Bar-
Drum. I've a pair in my
ears now. you can't see them
they’re invisible. I wouldn’t
know I had them in mysell.
only that I hear all right.”
iThe \yilson Ear-Drum is
really a substitute for the
yvorking parts of the
natural ear. Has no
wire. Invisible, easy to ad
just, comfortable Totally
different from any other de-
vice Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request
CtlAUimy 229-231 Collins. »t„ Help.
AUSTRALIAN STAMPS
Bought, Sold & Exchanged.
Gibbons’ Philatelic Albums
and all requirements. Price lists gratis.
J. H. SMYTH & CO., 88 King-st.,
SYDNEY.
Before booking .your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers’
Gazette & Sailing List, with map.
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 Collins st., Melbourne. 4 Hunter-st., Sydney.
HOW TO KEEP COOL.
We strongly recommend all who suffer
from the heat to add a few drops of Condy’s
Fluid to the Daily Bath or Foot Bath.
A Condy’s Fluid Bath imparts a most,
delightful sensation of coolness, freshness,
and purity, it invigorates the body and;
brace? the nerves. The strengthening and,
cooling effects are Simply Magical. Tired
or Tender feet are instantly relieved. Book
on bottle contains full directions.
Condy’s Fluid is sold by all Chemists
throughout the British Empire. Beware
of substitutes. Insist on having “ Condy’s
Fluid.” Condy & Mitchell, of London,
England, are the only Makers and theii;
name and address is at foot of label.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Bulletin notes with surprise and
disgust that there is no proposal to send an Aus-
tralian contingent to Somaliland.
N.S.W. Freetrade papers record, without
a blush for their mendacious yarns about the ruin
which the Federal tariff was to bring to Sydney,
the opening, at Surry Hills, Sydney, of a modern
hat-mill capable of employing 500 hands.
The Boyne-water crowd in N.S.W. is
working all the points of the noisome sectarian
game; this year, the annual demonstration was
held, not at Ryde, but at Clontarf, where a
lunatic’s crime laid the foundation of N.S.W. in-
tolerance.
According to a return laid before Parlia-
ment, the present N.S.W. Ministry is the author
of about 580 miles of new railway, and 56 miles of
tramway ; also it has completed 125 miles of rail-
way left unfinished by previous Governments.
Truly, N.S.W. is having a great time.
People in Victoria say that Dry Dog Reid
did well to confine his late Freetrade visitation to
the south of the Dividing Range. Had he gone
to the drought-cursed north with his babble about
the advisableness of depending on “natural
industries” he might have been tarred and
decorated with the tail-adornment of the rooster.
In the course of its retrenchment proposals
Vic. Assembly cut down the shire subsidy from
£lOO,OOO to £50,000. It would have been wiser to
utterly abolish it. The Vic. shires rate themselves
at from 6d. to Is. in the £, and the pampered
farmers cadge on the State to make up the rest —
largely at the cost of the city worker, whose own
rates run as high as 3s. in the £.
S.A. Parliament, which adjourned the
other day, eclipsed all records by doing its busi-
ness in a little over four months. Though the
traitorous Jenkins Ministry could have been
"ejected at any time, there were no adverse mo-
tions, and the Assembly, governed practically by
a caucus with Tory boss Darling as chief, put in
most of its time passing reactionary measures.
Darling is a wealthy merchant with an aversion
to office, and the Jenkins crowd are quite satisfied
to dance to his tune.
Bad as was the drought and the depression
of the alleged “national industries” in 1901, the
federated States had, in that year, the largest
increase of population they have had since 1897.
There was very little immigration certainly, but
still, things were better than usual. N.S.W.’s
population increased by 15,110 people ; Westralia
gained 14,740 ; Queensland increased by 12,270;
Victoria by 11,320 ; S.A. by 3450 ; Tasmania by
1250. Probably Federation and the Federal tariff
were partly responsible—anyhow a total increase
of 58,140 is something unusual.
THE LAST BLOW.
THOMAS BENT (to Vic. railway man): “You've
been eating the Government's cotton-waste and
grease."
Minister Bent’s latest “ economy ” in
working Victorian railways amounts to this : That
Hamilton Reid, late Chief Accountant of Vic.
Railways, is made Vic., Auditor-General, and will
audit his own former accounts ; H. Kent, railway
auditor, takes charge of the Auditor’s branch, and
he also will audit himself. Kent audits Kent,
and Reid audits Reid plus Kent.
Premier Seddon stated recently at Dunedin
that he “ proposed to promote a reciprocity treaty
between Australia and Maoriland.” The question
is : Seeing that the Commonwealth, during the
last two years, has bought £3,718,000 worth from
Maoriland, and has only sold to Maoriland
£2,846,000 worth, can Seddon fix up some kind of
reciprocity that will make Maoriland trade on
more even terms?
In the final division on the 90-million-acre
land-grab, in S.A. Assembly, the only help the
Laboritesgot was from Brooker, Coombe, Peake and
Shannon. Anyhow, a democratic constituency like
Pt. Pirie ought to have something to say, at first
chance, to Catt and Young; and if the Yorke’s
Peninsula miners can put up with Allen’s vote,
they are not made of the same stuff that most
Australian miners are.
Minister Lyne, it is reported, received
a claim from the British War Office for £5OO as
compensation for alleged damage by alleged out-
rages of alleged Australian soldiers, and replied
politely that he wasn’t giving any. Apropos, has
any claim been made by Australia in re the man-
slaughter of her soldiers on the Drayton Grange
through the culpable mismanagement of the afore-
said British War Office ?
The Victorian House of Landlords has
always declared that what it was maddest about
was “class representation,” and Irvine’s proposal
to set the civil service apart from the general body
of voters, and to give it three members of its own,
is that noxious thing, sure enough. But when
class representation consists in giving a generally-
democratio class very little representation the
Landlords may strain a point.
Australia is losing altogether, it would
seem, that jealousy of any encroachment on its
liberties, which is the only reliable bulwark of its
system of representative government. The other
day two Imperial delegates, Gov. Rawson, of
N.S.W., and Gov. Clarke, of Vic., stepped out-
side their duties to act as advocates of the pro-
posed increased naval tribute to England, and
there was not a word of protest.
S.A. Assembly, the other night, took just
seven minutes to pass £849,694 of loan estimates
and £99,880 of other expenditure. N.S.W.
Assembly recently passed £1,042,484 of Public
Works estimates in three minutes. And either
Assembly would rage for seven hours over the
alleged unjust sacking of gatekeeper Smithbrown,
on the ground that he wasn’t so drunk by at least
two pints as he was alleged to be.
The dreary unimaginative N.S.W. Tax-
payers—i.e. Taxdodgers’—Union fell out last
week over payment of Parliamentary members.
One proclaimed eternal hostility to payment, and
another eternal fidelity. And the union creaked
fore and aft. But the question is not one between
payment and non-payment; it is between pay-
ment by the State of a fixed sum and payment by
the individuals to themselves out of the oppor-
tunities of their position.
The Vic. Tory Irvine Govt, (with Robert
Reid, M.L.C., as Minister of Education) is under-
mining the system of free education. Way-back
settlers, in addition to taxes, are to be asked to
contribute to the payment of the local teacher, as
well as to board and lodge him free. After a
child can read, write, and do simple arithmetic he
is to be charged a fee for attending school.
Children receiving instruction in manual training
have now to pay for material used.
In a deputation that waited last week on
N.S.W. Works Minister O’Sullivan re the unem-
ployed, there was at least one speaker with a big
grasp of the situation. He proposed that the
Government should borrow “ forty or fifty
millions ” in France or the United States to carry
on public works. And Owe’Sullivan, whose
heart should have warmed to a policy so very like
his own, actually said that the great idea was
doodleflap, or something like that.
The Victorian Government’s proposal to
cut the public servants politically adrift, with
separate representation in Parliament, is likely to
be painfully ineffectual, after all. The public
servant’s brother, father, grandfather, uncle,
and brother-in-law, who are not themselves in
the service, will take an interest in voting down
the member whose only idea of retrenchment is
cutting the public servant’s wage, and the Irvine
Government can’t disfranchise everybody.
State hotel-keeping is to be instituted
in Westralia by the opening of a Government
hotel at Gwalia, near Leonora, in the way-back
goldfields. The local bench was about to grant
two licenses when Government offered to run one
hotel if only one licence were granted, and the
bench accepted the offer. Westralia has a strong
liquor-reform league led by Opposition-leader
Nanson, which is engineering the movement of
absolute liquor-traffic control by the State, now
modestly inaugurated.
A good many of Premier Irvine’s sup-
porters have a dazed feeling over the pro-
posal to expel the Victorian civil servants from
the general body of electors, and put them away
in a pound by themselves with the inadequate
allowance of two Assembly members of their own.
Nothing of the kind was mentioned in the pro-
gramme laid before the electors, and it has no sort
of popular sanction or warrant or mandate what-
ever. It isn’t even possible to find out for certain
how the Kyabramapootra feels about it.
When any progressive measure is pro-
posed,.the Tory legislator is always solid on the
point that it wasn’t definitely sanctioned by the
people at last general election. Jenkins Iscariot,
of South Australia, didn’t venture to ask
his people at last general election to sanction
the giving away of 90,000,000 acres to a trans-
continental railway syndicate ; he made allusion
to the railway, but the Picturesque Atlas itself
wasn’t more silent about the land-grant. And not
one Tory noticed this lack of popular sanction.
The Jenkins Iscariot Ministry’s monstrous
land-grant railway job was rushed through S.A.
Leg. Council in a few hours, and the Bill became
law on the last day of the session. The only
objectors were Guthrie and Kirkpatrick, the sole
remaining Labor representatives in the Tory
Chamber. It is generally known that the wires
have been pulled by a small, but strong, syndicate
in Adelaide, of which a semi-millionaire politician
is a prominent and busy member. S.A. democrats
have sadly missed Kingston, for it was he who
successfully killed a similar scheme five years ago.
Of the present turncoat Ministry, Jenkins and
Gordon were then Kingston’s colleagues.
HE MEANT WELL.
SPINSTER : “ Well, good-bye, Mr. Shepherd. Til
send on a trifle for the good cause in Africa .”
SHEPHERD : “My dear sister, you were always
faithful and one of my oldest sheep.”
Bruce Smith told a recent interviewer that
the Victorians were hidebound in fiscal error, and
the beautiful Ereetrade principle of the open door
was lost upon them. Then The Bulletin
despatched a swift messenger to look at B. Smith’s
own door. It was shut fast, and there was a chain
on it, and a hostile-looking dog on the step, and
B. Smith’s front gate was locked.
S.A. Parliament has not had for 10 years
so short a session as the one just finished. It
might have lasted longer had members not been
frankly ashamed to face one another. There
never was a Government which more completely
crawled on its belly before the Opposition. In
89 divisions on which he voted, the alleged
Opposition leader went against the Govt, only
34 times, and then he often had his way. The
real Opposition leader was Laborite Price, who
voted against Ministers 58 times, but could rarely
command a following of more than half-a-dozen
or so.
“ T.D.” writes :
Every evidence was afforded, at Mayor Gillott’s Melb.
dinner t’other night, of an all-round conspiracy to tie Aus-
tralia down to the proposed costly naval compact with
the dear old Motherland. The cue was given by Gov.
Clarke, who waded into the subject of naval defence
without reference to any peg in particular, and took for
his text the idea that naval strategy was impossible with
a fleet moored to any single locality (like Britain’s Coast
Defence ships). Gov. Clarke probably holds, also,
that fortresses are objectionable because they can’t keep
up with cavalry in a charge. Then came Admiral
Beaumont to the same effect, also Gen. Hutton, and
Barton, who must have engaged in a long consultation
on the subject before going to the Gillott shivoo. They
all pleaded pathetically about the immovable character
of an Australian fleet that is retained for purely Australian
defence, and is to skurry round 9000 miles of coast-line.
N.S.W. Constitution Act, which inflicts
pains and penalties on Leg. Assembly members if
they contract with the Govt, for
some services, doesn’t turn a hair
when other services, actually the
same in principle, are performed by
the same class of political con-
tractors. M.’sP. whose newspapers
contract for Govt, advts., or who
are owners of houses let to Govt,
for official and other purposes, pass
unnoticed by the Act, whereas the
member who contracts to shift 20
barrowfuls of sand from one Govt,
depot to another is penalised.
Lawyers who lay themselves out to
earn money from the Govt, hide in
the Upper House; members who
run newspapers, let houses and do
other monetary services for Govt.,
should, for mere consistency sake,
imitate the lawyers. It would
make the smashing of the Upper
House so much easier.
“Gumleaf ” writes :
It seems that after all the Australian Commonwealth
has been invented and perfected for the sole benefit of
the British army and navy. The navy and army simply
obliterated every other interest at the recent Mayor of
Melbourne’s banquet. If it had been the Australian navy
and army there would not have been so much to complain
about, but all the time and every time it was the British
navy and army. Gov. Clarke set things humming in this
direction by a long speech intended to show that the
Commonwealth should for ever throw in its lot with the
British navy ; that Australians should not attempt to
defend themselves, but should hand the job over to the
Admiralty. It would never do, he remarked, to have the
defence of the empire cut up'into watertight compart-
ments—though watertight compartments have prevented
many a sinkage. All through his speech it was the
defence of the Empire. Australia was quite a secondary
concern. Rear-Admiral Beaumont followed H.E.’s
example. He went so far as to sneer at the various State
naval departments before Federation, and practically
advocated the abolition of harbor defence as a thing that
was out of date. What the empire wanted—always the
empire—was a deep-sea navy. That may or may not be
so for the “ empihah,” as the Admiral calls it, but is that
what Australia wants? At any rate, the deep-sea navy
which the “empihah ” supplies Australia with at present
is not a very encouraging or cheering spectacle. Most of
the ships on the Australian station have to select good
weather in order to safely cross the Great Australian
Bight, which is crossed and re-crossed by little passenger
steamers every day of the week. And to go round the
Leeuwin, except on a bright sunshiny day, is out of the
question.
“Agricultural” items which the
heavily State-subsidised N.S.W. Agricultural
Society included in its last show : Confec-
tionery, condiments, inks, musical instru-
ments, artists’ colors, furniture polish, lace-
work, fossils, motor - cars, mount - cutting,
carpets, embroidery and billiard markers
(automatic). What an agricultural intellect
Premier John See must have when that acute
city gentleman R.A.S. President John See
calls for the year’s subsidy !
The latest fad in Maoriland —one which
is running a dead heat with Prohibition —is
Bible-in-State Schools. The sky pilots say
it is not intended to introduce the whole
Bible at once, but only a book of extracts for
a start. Probably it will include Job’s boils,
the sudden death of Mr. and Mrs. Ananias,
the story of Adam and Eve, who weren’t
married by a clergyman and who had an un-
registered infant named Cain, and a picture
of a Fearful Monster with a scaly tail and
wings and brandishing a pitchfork. In one or
two places a haphazard vote has been taken,
the pro-Bible party managing the show as a
rule. The results were not encouraging, even
in Presbyscotch Dunedin.
Incidentally mentioned during the dis-
cussion on the Estimates, that there are two
gaols in N.S.W. (both, doubtless, built out
of loan money)—one at Cooma, and one at
Glen Innes, neither of which has yet con-
tained a single prisoner. A moderate esti-
mate of their original price is £50,000, and
they cost <£2oo a year to maintain. The
local climatic conditions are too severe for prison
purposes, and it is unlikely that either budding
will ever be put to any practical use. For a gaol
is only fit to be a gaol; you can’t make a villa or a
hotel out of it.
That private cable to Melbourne about
British Minister Brodrick having made “certain
remarkable statements on the efficiency of colonial
troops ” seems to want a lot of explanation. Mr.
Toby Barton has had two tries. The first time :
What was meant was that colonial troops, in order to
meet the skilled armies of Europe, would require a longer
period of training.
Second version :
Mr. Brodrick was urging the propriety of forming a
trained reserve of men in the colonies for action with
other troops of the empire, in case of war.
There is, disguise it as England may, a pressing
need to open up new ground for the British recruit-
ing-sergeant. The population of the British Isles
won’t voluntarily provide 100,000 men for the
navy, an army of 60,000 for India, 50,000 for the
Cape, and 250,000 for the field wherever they may
be wanted. That is the problem as it presents
itself to Mr. Brodrick for solution, and the Aus-
tralian war-delirium of the last two or three years
seemed to offer a solution. But only seemed.
Some notable nonsense was printed in
Sydney D.T. last week, as the reasons of an ex-
naval-oflicer, why Australia should not have a
navy
Great Britain is bound by her treaties, and amongst
them is one to which the whole of the maritime Powers,,
with the exception of the United States, are parties.
That treaty makes strict provision as to what shall con-
stitute a warship in times of strife. Before Australia
could own a navy which would be regarded as indepen-
dent of the Motherland, it would be necessary for the
British Government to denounce this treaty, and that is-
not at all likely to occur.
Wondrous bosh ! Already Australia has owned
about twenty armed craft—vessels of alleged war
some small and doubtful, and some large and
obsolete, but war-vessels none the less. The-
British treaties that allowed of Australia owning
twenty bad vessels can also allow this country to.
own twenty good ones. Australia even now
possesses an old 3500-ton ironclad, and the statute
that admitted that is large enough to allow a new
7000-ton ironclad to get through also.
UNFORTUNATE NOMENCLATURE.
DROUGHT SUFFERERS.—A MILITARY SUGGESTION:.
CONCENTRATION CAMPS FOR WOMEN AND CHILDREN.
Major George Patterson, of the district headquarters-
staff, in discussing the question of relief for the drought-
stricken settlers of the north and n.w. portions of Vic-
toria, threw out a suggestion derived from recent experi-
ences in campaigning. — News Item.
MALLEE WOMAN (with children, before going in):
“ I suppose you haven't any idea what the
death-rate is likely to be in there, have you?"
Two years ago Adelaide was to be saved
by handing over its tramway rights to Snow.
They were handed over, and not a tap of work
has been done on the new system yet. Now the-
Transcontinental Railway League consisting
largely of the Snow gang —gives its assurance that
not only Adelaide, but all S.A., will be saved by
jobbing away 90,000,000 acres to induce a syndi-
cate to build a narrow-gauge line to Port Darwin,,
and run thereon a mixed train once a week. “In
the event of a co. being formed to undertake and
complete the railway,” says the League, “the
prosperity of S. A. is assured, and she must become
one of the most populous and influential States of
the Commonwealth.” Exactly ! Look how the
Midland land-grant railway has filled south-
western W.A. with a teeming population of about)
one person to the square mile.


LIPP PIANOS at PALING’S
The Best and most reliable German Piano made» : The Popular Piano in Australia.
Sfir
jSBp
mi ■
///
3ta?
0
Sold on
Easy
Terms.
0
i Catalogues
|
| Free by Post.
0
Old Pianos
taken in
Exchange.
0
Beware of Imitations of the Wonderful Lipp Pianos. The Genuine Lipp Pianos are to
be bought only from
W. H. PALING & CO., Limited, 338 George-st,
' 1 jp ■,*
Sydney. f And at
BRISBANE,
NEWCASTLE.
A BAD CASE.—-*■
ULCERS ON BOTH LEGS.
He had to be Assisted in and out of bed.
CURED BY
VITADATIO
" Kj
Mandwrah Road, Freemantle.
18/3/1901.
Mr. S. A. PALMER,
Dear Sir,—Having suffered from Bright’s Disease of the
kidneys in an aggravated form, and having tried so many
So-called cures, I feel it my duty to inform you that after
a course of VITADATIO I obtained great relief, which
how appears to be permanent, and am now so well as to
be able,to,attend to my business, the duties of which are
ho sinecure. You are at liberty to make what use you
please of this letter as I consider that anyone troubled
With kidney complaint cannot do better than give
VITADATIO a fair trial. —Yours faithfully,
(Signed) W. MILLS.
Of Mills, and Ware,
Biscuit Manufacturers,
Freemantle, W.A.
if'or further particulars,
S.. A, PALMER ,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
'Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The Price of Medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
ARTIFICIAL LIMBS
with AA marks
Patent
Rubber
Feet and
Hands
ARE THE
BEST PROCURABLE.
Sole Agents and Manufacturers
DENVER BROTHERS,
281 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY,
and at cor. Lonsdale & Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
Catalogues and Prices on application.
POPULAR SONGS
8y...
Eminent
Composers
"If-I were Loved by Thee" .. .. Piccolomini
“ Breaking the Ice . .. .. .. Pontet
“P arted bat Unchanged" .. J. Sewell Southgate
“Song of Love and Death" .. ..Barnett
OF ALL MUSICSELLERS.
W. PAXTON & CO., London, Melbourne
Newman’s
Antiseptic Pastilles.
The Best for all Affections of the Throat.
TRY THEM. PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
S. HARRIS, M. P. S., Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Telkfhoee 2288. , 82 KING-ST., SYDNEY.
Old-man Plimmer, better known as the
Father of Wellington (M.L.), celebrated his 90th
birthday last July, and the next itionth, with two
others, bought 30,000 acres in Martawatu district
(Makerua Swamp) for £lO,OOO. The swamp is
low-lying, and if it can be drained—experts aver
than it can—such an operation Will result in 30,000
acres of the richest land in the North Island-
black soil 12ft. deep. To pay the interest mean-
while, flax is being cultivated, or rather the
natural growth of that payable fibre is being pro-
tected and fostered with good result. Veteran
Plimmer, by-the-way, is grandfather of actor
Harry who the other day successfully created the
part of Sherlock Holmes in Australia, and was
pushed out of the caste to make way for the im-
ported Hastings.
Minister Crick’s revolt against Treasurer
Waddell’s acceptance of holy “ Wully ” Affleck’s
amendment in the order of leave of N.S. W. Govern-
ment’s Liquor Bill to allow of anti-barmaid
clauses, was a good deed done badly. Govern-
ment Bills should be of Cabinet construction, and
vital amendments should only be accepted by the
Cabinet as a body. As things tend, Bills are
kicked about anyhow, and unless a Ministry is
fired out by a direct censure motion it won’t go.
Mr. Crick’s claim that he ought to have been con-
sulted before his colleague in charge of the Liquor
Bill accepted a vital amendment was, on Party
Govt, lines, right. If that is to be departed from,
Ministers should be elected by the House, not
gathered together by a Premier.
Plumbing,
Heating,
Ventilating,
Are now important
. . . items in the build-
ing of every home. A young man thorough-
ly equipped for this work always in demand,
.these three subjects combined in one course
and taught at home by correspondence;
also Steam, Mechanical and Electrical
Engineering, Mechanical Drawing, etc.
The advanced subjects are taught by regular
teachers in Boston’s famous technical schools.
Write for information and Handbook “ B.”
American School of Correspondence, at
Armour Institute of Technology.
Sydney Address, Box 629, C.P.O.
Refreshing and Agreeable.
CALVERTS
CARBOLIC
TOILET SOAP.
A pleasant Antiseptic Soap (containing 10%
pure Carbolic Acid). Should be used regularly
infect'o° Ve s^n cor uplexion and prevent
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng. i
THE CALLAGHAN
.... COLLARETTE SHOE
From Us, to You
POST FREE
DUTY FREE
FOR
13/6
All over the
Commonwealth.
, t -w \
The price of our Collarette
Shoe is 12/11 ; or, post and
duty paid, 13/6 per pair. You
can take your choice of pointed,
medium, or broad toes, or of lace or
button. The prices are all the same.
There’s economy in this shoe. You will be
more than satisfied when you have seen and
worn it.
Ilf we can induce you to give this Shoe one trial
you will never think of wearing any other. In
-Style, Fit, Elegance, and Long Wear it is
.poitively without an equal.
to
Shoes Exchanged or money refunded.
CALLAGHAM & SON, 395 ceorce st., Sydney.


Banking. Public Companies. Ac.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.-^
LOT INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
cs*
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
axr.s.-w.
Iflont depiete DMCo.,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
*7A. CASTLEBEA6H ST., *7A
SYDNEY ‘
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
'—TUB—.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with*
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - » 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. 3 F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,595,870.
Policies issued 88,299—assuring- £26,826,380.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,767,115.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—eouitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE*
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
The Bank of north Queensland
LIMIT ICl).
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director-JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250 000 ... £350,000
Royal Bank of Queensland
LIMITED. “
CAPITAL PAID-UP £451,307
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 181,859
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 50,000
£GS9,I6G
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Euwn. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE : 25 A3CHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Queensland Smelting Qompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
T3UYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, ap,>ly to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 62 Market-street. Melbourne.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £15,000, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties,
and £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Hon. John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Sums,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, I). Ci.ynk ; Adelaide, W. N.
•M'Farlank ; Brisbane, K. Wu.son ; Perth, A. \V.
FARquiIAR. J. J.ALLEN, General Manager for Australia,
131 Pitt St., SYDNEY'.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £2,500,000
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED.
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) £9576 13 4
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORItOWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Managei
MARYS
LINIMENT
AN OLD-ESTABLISHED CURE
FOR All Chest Troubles, Lumbago,
t Rheumatism, Sore Throat,
Sprains, Stiff Neck, Backache
and Kindred Complaints,
WHOLESALE AGENTS—
ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Limited,
O’ Conn all-street, Sydney,
AND TO BE HAD OF
*»■ ALL CHEMISTS.
SUpplng.
HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE"!
GEELONG
PORTLAND f
VVARRNAMBOOL J
ADELAIDE s
Tyrian, Saturday, Nov. 22, 1 p.m.
Konoowarra, Tues, Nov. 25, 5 p.m,
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Konoowarra, Tues., Nov. 25, 6 p.m.
ALBANY
FIiEMANTLE
Konoowarra, Tues., Nov. 25, fi p.m.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Leura, Saturday, Nov. 22, 12 Noon.
Tyrian, Saturday, Nov. 29, 12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Leura, Saturday, Nov. 22, 12 Noon.
Tyrian, Saturday, Nov. 29, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through. k
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
el T n Ck ° tS interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices —Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets. 6
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
WHITE STAR LINE
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
RUNIC, to Sail on or about 21st NOVEMBER.
MEMO, AERJC, SUEVIC, and PERSIC
to follow.
FARES—Capetown .. £l6 16 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 27 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 33 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation-
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Bay of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
Huddart, Parker & (Jo’s [ine
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Hates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
A. 3NTID
LIME
via
San Francisco,
California.
NEW
SERIES
Up
EXCURSIONS
TO THE
RIVIERA
OP
AMERICA.
FIRST-CLASS THROUGHOUT.
COSTS £6O.
Covering- Return Passages, Steamer and Rail, Hotel
Expenses in San Francisco, and Hotel Del Monte,
Southern California, about Ten Days' stay in America,
with liberty to remain longer. Steamers leave as
follows:
THE GREAT
/ OVERSEA 1
\ OVERLAND /
HIGHWAY
TO THE UNITED KINGDOM,
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, and AMERICA.
The NEWEST, LARGEST (6000 Tons each), FASTEST,
and ONLY TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS engaged in
the TRANS-PACIFIC PASSENGER SERVICE from
Australia and New Zealand.
OCHA NIC STHAMSHIV CO., J/1J).
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts. SYDNEY.
Bank of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGS STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. 2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,285,000 0 0
Reserve Liability 2,000,000 0 0
Total .. ... 6,285,000 0 0
Directors:
lion. Chas. It. Mackellar, M.L.0., President.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Norm and MacLaurin, Kt., M.L C.
Senator James Thomas Walker.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L C.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Auditors:
A. G. Milson, Esq. Harrington Palmer, Esq.
London Office-Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom
T.ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects’ for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency qf other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business. J
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America
or m India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
2ii r No. 56 ACETYLENE GAS Catalogue
I
is the MOST COMPLETE
and COMPREHENSIVE
ever issued.
Tells all about the Best
ACETYLENE CAS CENER.
A TORS, LAMPS, and
everything in connection
with ACETYLENE.
Nearly 400 of our
Reliable Automatic
Acetylene Gas
Generators
in daily use.
Large Stocks of the
Best
Carbide
of Calcium
Quotations on application.
James MARTIN & CO.,
161 Clarence Street,
Nr. King-st., Sydney.
EVERY WOMAN
is interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new Vaginal Syringe.
Injection and Suction. The best,
safest and most convenient.
It Cleanses Instantly.
If your druggist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated Book, sent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies. Endorsed by Physicians.
MARVEL CO., Times Building, N. Y.
Sole Australasian aok.nis— '
The Marvel Co. of Australia,
(Box 623 G.P.0.) CAHDEN BUILDINGS,
418 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Medical.
INFLAMED EYES and EYELIDS
positively cured by
ROSE’S CELEBRATED
Eye Lotion.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers.
TXT. ID. L.
(NORD-DE UTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
\x 11 ) I’ll.l r.n .1* I .rtnrl ah Anf nr>.»» 4 T>. . . ■> ■
± wm-sture w steamer.
Leaving MELBOURNE Wednesday after Sydney.
Interstate First-Class Return Tickets are now available
»r Return by the Steamers of the P. and 0., Orient
Pacific, or M.M. Co. s.
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. STETTIN. 26th NOVEMBER,
And Regularly Thereafter.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney. "
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
tyOANA SAILS, DEC. I.
The Most Popular Steamer on the
Pacific. Connecting at Vancouver
with Canadian-Pacific Railway.
Affording an Excellence of Service
not Obtainable Elsewhere .
CHEAPEST ROUTE TO AMERICA AND
ENGLAND.
Following Sailings, Dec. 29, Jan. 26
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
THE ROAD
TO HEALTH IS
PAVED WITH
GOOD
DIGESTION.
VEGETABLE
Speedily cures Acidity. Flatulence, Heartburn,
Impure Breath, Indigestion, Diarrhoea, &c. It
destroys all disease germs, and,absorbing all impuri-
ties in the stomach and bowels,gives a healthy tone
to the whole system. Wards off all attacks of Typhoid
and other Fevers. Prevents many an illness.
BRA<IG’S PURE CHARGOAD POWDER in
Bottles; LOZENGES and BISCUITS in Tins
(pleasant to take). Sold by all Chemists and Stores
Having had complaints of the injury done by other
preparations,please see that each Bottle or Tin bears
the Trade Mark ‘J.L.B., in monogram,'on the wrapper.
SUpplng. __
THE ADELAIDE STEAffISHJPCO;
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORT 3
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhippingab Fremantle
to all North Western Ports.
S.S. Allinga,
Friday, November 21.
S.S. Wollowra,
Saturday, November 22.
S.S. Marloo,
Saturday, December 6.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Porta North to Cairns
S.S. Allinga, Friday, Nov. 28.
S.S. Innamineka, Saturday,
December 6.
S.S. Warrego, Sat., Dec. 13.
Best and Cheapest Itoute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of. call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. 8. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
y - O. IN- V/OY. LTD.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THIS POPULAR PASSENGER LI NIL
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Maokay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Twice weekly, via Br i sf-
* lane - Maryborough, and Bundaberg.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via BrW
bane,. Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
via MELBOURNE—Fortnightly.
Yassenyer A ceo minodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
nrst port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
I‘or Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO, Ltd., Agents, 111.Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
P. AND O COMPANY’S
ROYAL. MAIL. STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subj'oined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B to £77
Ditto Ditto Return, £66 to £ll5
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific,
Messageries Mari times and N.D.L. Steamers having room.
EDWARD TRELAWNY,
63 Pitt-street. Superintendent in Australia.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with tha
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and 0.,
Orient Pacific and N.D.L. steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices.
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R- BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
“E. ANP A.” LINE.
. . TO . .
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin,
Steamer. iTus Commander. [Leave Sydney.
AIRLIE .. [2500 Sfc. John George.. December 6
AUSTRALIAN .. 3000. P. T. Helms .. January 3
EMPIRE .. 4200 W. G. McArthur.. January 21
EASTERN ... 3600lVVinthrop Ellis ..February
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with EVERY CON-
VENIENCE FOR TROPICAL TRAVELLING.
Through bookings to points in Canada, United States
of America and Europe at special rates.
Doctor and Stewardess carried.
Lowest Fares and Freights.
For further information apply to
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.,
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
SMOKE . .
■ ■
INSIST
on having this Brand
and no other.
Largest Depot:
231 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDKTEY.


TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SCRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc*
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Truly,“Truth is Stranger than Fiction/'
T OWADAYS one finds it very liard to believe that only a few years back our squatters
were ‘‘ at their wit’s end ” ito know how to dispose of their surplus stock, and when,
-X-1 after a vast expenditure in experimenting, it was found possible to export frozen meat
in specially-constructed steamers, works were built all over the country, with a capacity
to kill and freeze millions of sheep in a year. Yet
To-day, instead of having Millions to Export, we are
Importing Cattle and Frozen Meat.
Instead of the country supplying the city with meat, MOST OF THE COUNTRY
TOWNS IN NEW SOUTH WALES ARE DRAWING THEIR SUPPLIES FROM
SYDNEY, in the shape of FROZEN MEAT or
ROSEWARNE’S
PRESERVED MEATS.
In order to cope with the increasing demand for their goods, the ROSEWARNE
PACKING CO., Ltd., has extended its works considerably. Yet it finds its resources taxed
to the utmost to keep up with the consumption.
ROSEWARNE’S PRESERVED MEATS
are now found upon the tables of thousands of settlers, not only in the “ backblocks,” but near
the cities. Householders in Sydney find that their canned
POULTRY, OX TONGUES and SHEEP’S TONGUES
are delicious.
Thei rCAHBRIDGE, OXFORD and IRISH SAUSAGES are Economical,
Nutritious and Tasty.
So are their CHICKEN and HAfl PATES and GAfIE PIES.
They also put up ROAST, BOILED, CORNED and SPICED BEEF and
MUTTON, BRAWN, KIDNEYS, OX TAIL, SHEEP’S TROTTERS, STEAK
and ONIONS, &c. POULTRY of all kinds. Roast and Jugged Hare, &c.
Try them, and you will then Appreciate the Goods.
The Rosewarne Packing Co.,
LIMITED,
Factory: Chester St., Camperdown.
Head Office: No. 70 Pitt St., Sydney.
CAPILLA
HAIR
TONIC
The Wonder of the Ago
ALL CHEMISTS
THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALASIA
JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE WORSTCOUGHS;
Capacities that Clash.
The essential evil of the Australian politi-
cal expedient whereby one man fills at times the
positions of Chief Justice and Lieutenant-Gover-
nor of the State was glaringly illustrated m
Melbourne the other day. Waxellency Madden is
the most conspicuous result of a bad system. In
his judicial capacity he never ceases to be
John Madden, the intermittent “ Administrator
of the Government of Victoria,” and decorative
centre of Melbourne’s society circle. He struts to
the hall of justice in a whaleboned frock coat, the
flower in his buttonhole emblematical of his fes-
tive heart. When he assumes his wig he doesn’t
get away from the fact that his back hair has
been waxed and parted, to receive company as it
were. Madden, C.J., is a “society man ’’firstly,
lastly, and always. He loves “ high society,” and
from time to time he gets an extra three or four
thousand pounds a year to support him in the
costly foolishness of social entertaining. Impar-
tiality as a Judge is almost impossible to him in
cases where a member of the masses meets a
member of the classes. He must sit with one eye
directed stonily at a mere bloke whom he never
saw in his life before, and the other smiling
at a gentleman who was introduced to him last
time he gave a ball or “graced a function.”
The Chief Justice presumably was suffering from
an attack of scruples the other day when he
declined to adjudicate in a libel-case for the
reason that several of the witnesses for the defen-
dant—having their names on theGov’ment House
visiting-list—were “personal friends of his,”
whose evidence was likely to conflict with that of
the plaintiff, who happened to be a plain, un-
varnished nautical resident of Port Melbourne.
So the case will be passed on to Judge A’Beckett,
who also may have become personally friendly
with Mr. Madden’s friends through meeting them
at his Waxellency’s large and frequent social
gatherings. The incident of the Chief Justice’s
declining to discriminate between the testimony
of the “gentlemen ” he knows and the blokes he
doesn’t know is a truly crushing argument against
the system under which he draws two salaries
whenever the superfluous State-Governorship is
going begging. The community should pay its
Judges handsomely and then insist that in return
for the payment they should be Judges and no-
thing else—not social leaders nor Labor agitators,
nor politicians, nor militant experts in any system
of religiosity. The system of deliberately degrad-
ing the Chief Justice occasionally to the level of
a mere Governor—a titled rubber-stamp—must
bring the administration of justice ii.to contempt
among reasonable people.
A Jubilee White Elephant.
Melbourne Fever Hospital, erected at a cost of
£16,000, is still unoccupied, and, according to
present indications, the committee would do well
to furnish it as residential quarters and lease suites
of rooms for five years. The hospital was mooted,
in the first instance, during the hysteria of the
Jubilee of a Queen who used to reign in England.
There was really no necessity for it then, as the
city’s hospital accommodation was adequate for
all cases ; but for want of money about 200 beds
were continually unused. Had the money raised
been made' an endowment for upkeep, and a
little intelligence been displayed in distribu-
tion, all the sick could have been treated properly.
But the crowd which planked down its money for
advertising purposes required something to show
for it, and a costly building had to be raised at
(eternal fitness !) Yarra Bend. The progress of
the negotiations and of the building was marked
by much bungling. At last, five years after the
money was raised, the building is complete, but
is unfurnished, except with a debt of £2000, con-
tracted personally by the committee. Under the
Health Act of Vic. such an institution has to be
kept up by the municipalities concerned and the
State Govt., each providing equal contributions ;
but about half the municipalities, which
shrieked so loudly for the hospital when it
wasn’t costing anything, are now refusing to
pay for its maintenance. Premier Irvine has
also backed out of providing a Govt, subsidy,
sheltering himself behind a legal technicality.
Another complication threatens to arise with the
Melbourne Hospital. This institution has so far
been the only one in Melbourne accepting
infectious cases ; and as it has been looking for-
ward to being relieved of these, it has submitted
without protest to the curtailment of its own sub-
sidy. Now it threatens to refuse all scarlet-fever,
typhoid, diphtheria and measles sufferers who
come to its doors. Should it do so, the onus of
maintaining such cases will be cast upon the
municipalities whence they come, and fever
cases will be accommodated with “ shake-downs ”
in the local town-halls. If only one could be
assured that the patients wouldn’t suffer, no
sympathy with the town-halls would be called
for. It would be a good thing to see such build-
ings put to some use.
♦
English newspapers, professedly so very anxious
to encourage the feeling of “Imperial Unity,” are
inclined to quarrel with Mr. C. O. Kingston’s
declaration in favor of Irish Home Rule, as calcu-
lated to “embarrass the Imperial Government”
and as constituting “ an improper interference
with British affairs. ” But, surely, if there is one
thing on which the different parts of “the
Empire ” can be properly united it is in securing
for the various territories equal self-governing
rights. Mr. Barton’s protest against the
suspension of the Cape Colony Constitution was
a statesmanlike act, because the interference with
self-governing rights in one quarter of the Empire
would certainly cause uneasiness and distrust in
the other parts. Similarly there could be nothing
better calculated to inspire a feeling of “true
Imperial unity ” than the granting to Ireland of
the same rights as those enjoyed by Canada and
Australia ; it would suggest, most strongly, that
friendship, not servitude, was expected by Eng-
land from the different parts of the Imperial
territory.
TO DARKEN *GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
ydr’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.
Students and others interested are notified that
the recent amalgamation of the American School of
Correspondence with the great technical School at
Chicago, the Armour Institute of Technology—the
faculty of both Schools co-operating in and con-
ducting the Correspondence work—signifies a great,
development in technical education. This amal-
gamation places 59 experts in Engineering, Elec-
tricity, Science, Sanitation and Textile work in
charge of the Correspondence work with an Advisory
Board of Practising Mechanical, Constructing, Electrical
and Mining Engineers and a small army of assistants
and clerks. The Degree, Bachelor of Science, conferred
by the Armour Institute has long had an honored
reputation; the Diploma granted by the combined
Schools for work done in the Correspondence Section
will likewise have a wide recognition.*
The Last of Six:
Tales of the Austral Tropics. By Ernest
Favenc. Paper covers, 141 pp.; price, 6d.;
postage, 2d.
“ Shellback” on a sea-swindle: —
Bananaland holds the record amongst the Australian
States for miserable harbors. The ports of Brisbane,
Maryborough and Rockhampton, etc., are approached by
long, narrow winding channels painfully, and at great ex-
pense, scooped out of ever-growing mud banks. A vast
amount of annual expenditure is necessary to keep these
channels navigable for vessels drawing any consider-
able depth, say 20ft. or more. Now, one of the
means of raising the necessary wherewithal takes
the cake for meanness. The method of extraction
comes Tinder the clause of the Marine Act relating
to “pilotage exemptions.” These are qualifications
that all coasting mariners must obtain to rise to com-
mand. But not content with charging the usual fee of
£5 5s. prevailing in the other States for an exemption
certificate, Kanakaland insists on the would-be exempt
master paying the pilotage on his vessel once in and out.
This, even in a moderately-sized vessel, amounts to a good
round sum. Only one of the local co’s makes any advance
towards meeting the drain on the shellback’s scanty
purse, and this to the extent of 50 per cent—the others
content themselves by looking on and letting their
would-be skippers pay the piper ! In the other States,
moreover, pilotage exemption is open to first mates
who have been in and out of the port three times in
that capacity. Bananaland insists upon five times as mate
and once as a master, with the additional financial burden
already alluded to. In their frantic efforts to raise the
wind during these hard times, it is now proposed to make
the examination compulsory for exempt masters every
two years, presumably at the cost of another fee each
time. Queensland's seaports are mostly mewed up miles
away from the open sea, in the interests of a few property
holders, and to penalize on this account a hardly-worked,
not too well paid section of the community, comes home
an easy winner in the race for mean swindles. Wanted, a
Federal navigation law to bring all Exemption Regula-
tions to a common basis.
4
Things are becoming mixed over the Victorian
Licensing Fund. This fund was founded for the
purpose of paying compensation to hotel owners
for the abolition of their licenses under the local
option provisions of the Licensing Act. It con-
sists of licensing fees, fines, &c., and in past years
grew to a very substantial fund. Needy, dis-
honest Treasurers politically embezzled large sums
of money from this fund whenever they felt in-
clined, while Parliament and the daily press
winked the other eye. In this way the
fund has been reduced to beggary. At the
present time it reaches to less than £18,000.
Local option polls have been taken in several
licensing districts, and others are coming along.
The decision to close up hotels at Ballan will call
for payment of £12,000 in compensation. The local
option party also threatens to close 37 hotels in the
N. Melbourne district, and if success attends the
effort then the licensing fund will be hopelessly
insolvent. The Licensing Act provided against
a contingency of this kind by empowering
Government to raise additional funds by in-
creasing the beer and spirit duties. That
power has been handed over to Federal authority,
and the State Government now finds itself
in an awkward hole. Irvine, of the Arctic
mien, calmly states that he is convinced the
Government can step in and prevent actual
claims being established against the fund. But
the local optionists reply, “Previous Treasurers
stole the moneys and used them illegally; if
that had not been done the fund would have been
enough for our purposes ; therefore, Government
is responsible for the position of affairs, and must
find the money somehow.” And it looks as if
they had reason on their side.
4 .
“Natjrick” writes roseately about Queensland
white cane-cutters: —
The white men who cut this year’s cane-crop in the
Mackay district are, I suppose, typical of the rest. And
what a curious collection they were ! Big and little,
strapping and wiry ; some fresh young fellows; and some,
to all appearance, quite played out. Yet the latter stuck
to their work, with few exceptions, right through the
season. And diverse were their previous occupations.
On one farm were an ex-Q. civil servant, an expert ac-
countant whom drink had beaten ; and a man who had
run through £8000. Also a North of England miner, an
Irish new-chum and a miner from M. Morgan. One man
had been a comp., another a farm-hand, and another a
bullock-driver. Yet this scratch lot of men, with little
or no previous experience, took the cane off one of the
roughest farms in the district—to work upon which, in
its nigger days, it was almost impossible to get overtime
(or semi-free) kanakas.
Of course, they growled a bit at the long hours—six till
six—yet not a man left his job on that account, or
sulked, as the Kanaka invariably does when he thinks he
is being put upon. The white man has also this advan-
tage to the farmer: when there is any dissatisfaction on
either side the white leaves, whereas the Kanaka
has to be endured until his agreement expires.
The white cutters believed, of course, in a White Aus-
tralia, and were resolved to prove that white men could
and would cut cane in the tropics. Cheery, too, both at
work and in their leisure. What a difference to the
farmer, who could enjoy a chat with the men on the farm,
instead of keeping aloof from the (pretty well) slaves of
Kanaka days. And the white cutters will be on hand
next year, well pleased to work upon the cane.
Supposing South Australia must have its trans-
continental railway now, and won’t be happy till
it gets it, what does Jenkins Iscariot reckon is
gained or saved by handing the work over to
private enterprise ? Here is the situation :—
S.A., bad as things are, could raise the money for
building the line at 4 per cent, and give the 90,000,000
acre land grant to its own railway department, the rents
to go towards paying interest on the cost of the line, and
the money realised from sales to go towards paying off
the debt.
The syndicate will certainly have to pay 5 per cent, for
its debenture money—and 6 or 7 or 8 per cent, is not
impossible.
The people of S.A. and the Territory would have to
find the 4 per cent, if the State borrowed the money to
build the line. They will also, by land grants and by
fares and freights, have to find the money to pay 5 per
cent, or more on the syndicate’s borrowings.
Therefore, unless it is deliberately understood that the
syndicate is going to swindle its debenture-holders, the
private railway will cost S.A. and the Territory more
than the State railway, even if built with borrowed
money. Is Jenkins Iscariot a deliberate party to a
scheme for diddling the syndicate’s debenture-holders?
Or, if he isn’t, then where does the advantage come in ?
O
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial p ar
eel, which will be followed by direct remittance
is solicited.
Someone sends along a sneer and a
theory:—
A certain Australian Women’s Cold Tea Union recently
struggled with the great problem of how to keep the old
man at home o’ nights. Among other methods suggested
was a closer attention to cooking. This was knocked out in
one act by a dry, withered sister arising and flourishing
an Al 7 certificate, or something, from the Royal Cookery
School at South Kensington, and declaring that, though
her old man came home regularly to feed, he left for the
club the moment the eating was over. The company
looked at the dry and withered sister, and relapsed into
a gloomy silence that was eloquent. Then a sweet
young thing arose and advocated the tasteful draping of
the walls with cheap tapestry and bright art muslin. An
ancient dowager, who confessed to having spent her salad
days in a drapery emporium, said it might do for the
pore wurrkin’ man with a salary of about £lO per week,
but it would certainly drive to drink the other fellow,
who existed on 425. per week, to see what would buy
12 months’ clothes go in wall drapings. Also, by diligent
inquiry she had learned that the bars to which they drifted
had no drapings, excepting those that were hung round
the lower end of the shameless hussies who served out
the wet. Then the gloom deepened, and the feeling of
utter helplessness was only displaced somewhat by some
wild talk about the abolition of the barmaid. What the
old tabbies of the W.C.T.U. do not seem to be able to
grasp is that the abolition of the barmaid does not
destroy the gay siren who used to officiate in that capa-
city. It will only transfer her to another sphere of
activity, and the man who hungers after her will find her
either in the refreshment-room or that other place that is
not mentioned in polite society. As long as the married
man hankers after her she will be available. But, as a
matter of fact, that barmaid is a very much over-esti-
mated attraction. She has to attend to too many to be
really dangerous, unless one can win his way to the ex-
pensive and irksome position of “ right bower."
The casual young man who drifts in and de-
posits sixpence, receives a grimace made by lengthen-
ing the mouth and elevating as much of the cheeks
as possible around the eyes. There’s no mirth in it. In
a very little while the mechanical operation of the top
cheeks and mouth becomes offensive, and the young man
drifts out to take a moonlight trip down the harbor with
that much more entertaining young lady (who loved him
from the first time she saw him), who is to be found in
every boarding-house, and who dresses well and wears
jewellery of fair value on a salary of 10s. per week,
although out of employment three-parts of the year.
The married man with his own home doesn’t generally
indulge in this sort of siren, and goes to the thruppen’y
bar all the time. If his wife did her hair up on top,
winked at him with a siren-like wink, and frisked round
when he brought home a bottle of sixpenny beer for
supper, her hubby probably wouldn’t go out to any pub.
at all. To keep the old man at home is not a matter of
wall decorations, although they may help—any good
picture looks better in a nice frame—but of attractiveness.
If hubby likes the siren sort, then the wife should be a
better siren than the other cat, and that outside animal
would go under, for the wife can play the game at a
lower cost to her husband than the outside cat, and cheap-
ness is a great consideration in the siren business. It’s
the presence of too much virtue of the W.C.T.U. brand
and a lamentable lack of siren-like frisk and frivol that
drive most married men to private bars and other places.
The Bulletin Reciter has been taken by
Bill and Jim straight to their warm hearts, and
already its contents have gladdened thousands of
audiences all over Australia. Most of the best
and most famous Bulletin recitation-pieces are
included in this line collection —price ss. post-
free from Bulletin office.


Throbbing
Headache-
There’s many a cause for headache. Men are
not often troubled by headache; when they are
it is generally due to Biliousness or Indigestion.
But women have headaches which seem peculiar
to their sex—frequent, throbbing headaches.
Does it not seem that such headaches peculiar
to women must be at once related to womanly
disease? Women who suffer with diseases
peculiar to the sex, do not realise the drain of
vital strength and nerve force they undergo as
a consequence of disease. It is this that causes
the headaches of sick women. Da. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills are a positive cure for female
weaknesses and all diseases arising from a dis-
ordered stomach. They keep the liver and
kidneys in working order, thereby cleansing the
blood, driving out all poisonous humors, and at
the same time aiding the organs of nutrition and
digestion. Mrs. Lillie Johnston, who resides at
142 Crown-street, Sydney, writes:—“My nerves
were entirely run down, and everything I wished
to do seemed a trouble. I could take no interest
in my home or surroundings. I first began to
feel unwell by being troubled with indigestion,
mu S a, PP efc i te > , an( l frequent sick headaches.
1 he slightest exertion left me entirely prostrated.
I was low spirited, and life became a burden. I
was frightened at the most harmless things. I
attended the hospital afe an outdoor, patient, but
without receiving any benefit. It was suggested
by a gentleman who had great faith in Ds.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills that I should try
them. I began at once to improve, and continued
taking the pills, and was greatly benefited by
them. I have regained my usual spirits, and am
able to do my work with pleasure. lam glad to
furnish this testimonial as to the great benefit I
have derived in taking Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills.”*
| FACILE PRIIMCEPS. j J SEMPER IDEmT"}
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
SPEED: and how to obtain it By DON WALKER.
The information can be had gratis-no need to write a book or talk a lot. DON WALKER* like BILL MARTIN,
Rides a RED BIRD,
and any further information as to how and “ why ”of sprinting may be had by 1 !! visit to the
Branches in every State. GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King-st., City.
The Australian Commission Agency Company.
101 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE,
Communicates with
“TATTERSALL.” HOBART.
fst and S econd p r j zes f Qr nes
Were Taken by AT Adelaide Wine Show, October, 1902,
Hardy’s Adelaide Wines
Cellars. 15 CROSVENOR ST., SYDNEY, and at ADELAIDE and MELBOURNE.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Amusing to hear the bitter cry of the bulky
Victorian weeklies on the subject of racing malpractices
The malpractice of publicly “running horses into
form,” as it is politely termed, has become popular under
the patronage of the very journals which now profess to
see a difference between “fat” cattle and “ stiff” cattle
There is no difference, as far as the ignorant, confiding
punter knows. He judges a horse’s chance for a race by
its best previous performances, and if he assumes that
the unready animal is being sent to win, it is the assump-
tion of a right-thinking man or a wrong-thinking foo?
just according to an expert’s view of the mistake Every
expert knows in his heart that the policy of “ run nine-
horses (unbacked) into form ”is unjustifiable The
training track is the proper place, and the safest place
for getting an animal fit to carry the stable dollars’
Present scribe enjoys a good many chuckles over the
short-sighted chicanery of owners who send their horses
tp little suburban meetings for an exercise gallop. Every
now and then a catastrophe happens, and the nag that is
merely out for a pipe-opener gets mixed up in the melee
and comes to serious grief. Sometimes the jockey gets
his neck broken. It ought to be the owner’s neck. b
* » * »
Of all horses in Australia, the 5-year-old Flag-
ship seems to have the largest following of apologetic
admirers. East yearwhen Flagship ran a moderate and
quite hopeless third to Hymettus and Wakeful in Oaul
field Cup, he was said to have been “ late in making his'
run. Ditto this year when he finished second to Lie,,
tenant Bill. In Adelaide Oup, last May, he ought to have
beaten The Idler and The Victory. In Melb. Cup Pother
week he was “badly ridden” and “got aroughpassage.”
It was all right, of course, when Flagship won the V R P
llmdicap, but again he was “badly interfered with”
because he didn’t get placed in Will.amstown Cup The
Flagship case invites comparison with that of Vanity
Fair, for which more consistent battler no excuses are
offered. Vanity Fair, after winning the Coon«-y Handi
cap in game style, ran third to Flagship in Caulfield O in
Then she finished second to The Victory for the big race'
Next time she met Flagship on 81b‘worse terms than
before—in the V.R.C. Handicap aforesaid—and the little
mare finished fourth. At WilliamstOwn she was handi
capped to receive 131 b. from Flagship. On paper she was
good enough to beat him, and she did it, making a dead
heat with Eleanor, but losing the run-off. These results
, on l vvlth another > show no justification for thecrv
of bad luck whenever Flagship fails to win. y
* • • •
A feature of Vic. Racing Carnival was the
number of clean-shaven, rocky-faced persons selling tips
Nearly all alleged that they had bought them (at a
guinea) from a bigger man who spends pounds daily in
advertising. Not only did they pervade the free Flat at
Fiemington, but also Caulfield, Moonee Valiev, &c. where
it costs good coin to get in. Writer counted ouife n
score at Williamstown, where three cocksure individuals
boldly offered to return the money if unsuccessful. Two
prophecies he took_the trouble to investigate failed to
come off, but he didn t. notice anyone calling back for his
bob. As there was everywhere, except at Flemington.
unusual dearth of sweep-promoters, ice-
ci earn and lemonade merchants, and purveyors of race-
games, three-card tricks and other swindles, writer
eC m n i S i H'? Se I ?r ve . em , barked in the presumably more
profitable tip-selling industry.
* • • *
It’s common talk among the Noses that, despite
one or two unfavorable meetings, French brandy-
niaJ? *; n !! £foes away with somewhere about £4OOO
of Ikey s monish ” per the Oceana from Adelaide. Aus-
trahan mares Haulette, Beanha, Portland Belle, Feud
and Seclusion have beeh secured for his stud. Last-named
two who will be served by Harmonist before leaving
Australia looked more fit for hospital than anything
else. Seclusion was lame in- the rearward section, and
Feud gave every indication of suffering severe kidney
trouble, while Portland Belle was badly jaded. The halt
and the lame w ith a vengeance.
*-* * .
The annual outbreak of Melbourne Cup stories
and statistics does more than keep Carbine’s memory
green. It makes that unrivalled Australian quadruped
look bigger every year. He won the Cup in record time,
with a record weight, from a record field. Thirty-nine
horses started in Carbine’s year. Jockeys must have
been less desperately dishonest in IS9O than they are
?,° w : tbe champion never could have escaped the
interference which threatens first-class favorites in
every race these times. The “ dead-bird ” Revenue had
only 18 horses to beat last year. How would Revenue
have fared with 38 opponents on the job ? Four months
later, when he went out at “ evens” for the Australian
Cup, there were but 13 runners; a small crowd—but
enough. Revenue was “pocketed,” bumped, galloped
on, and he came back to scale a mangii-d cripple.
Claimed by Australian Jewish Herald that
oj’V 2b P er B cent - of the bookmakers are Hebrews, and
that, therefore, the allusions to “ Ikey M 0.,” and so on
are uncalled for. But the percentage the Jews bear to
the general population is -38, less than half per cent.
Evidently, then, Jews are bookmakers to a much greater
extent than other people. The reason why every book-
maker is not of the Chosen is probably because there is
not enough of tjie Chosen to go around.
. V.R.C. meet, jock Barden beat his own bril-
liant record. In eight mounts he rode six winners, and
secured a dozen races within seven available days. In
Sydney, last-Saturday, he rode four horses and made two
of them winners. Barden’s success is rendered more
meritorious by the fact that it requires considerable
sweating, massage, etc., to bring him down to Bst. He
has the Murkan crouch method, and owned it before the
Yankee style was talked of in Australia. He sits quietly
never breaks his nag’s stride, and only punishes when
absolutely necessary.
* * • *
Poor old Gildus, once champion racer of N Q
and winner of many important handicaps throughout
that State, was sold t’other day, from the Towers sale-
yard, for half-a-crown.
*.. • * *
Salvous, by Marvellous, from Grand Flaneur
mare Salvage, romped over everything else in Mo'orefield
(Sydney) Flying and Welter Handicaps, Saturday. Owner
Wootton, got -him a little while since for £lOO. How
unsexed prads do stand wear and tear of racing I Salvous
was foaled at Hobartville 10 years ago.
* * * *
Died at Albury, t’other day, one-time prominent
sport, Alex. McDonald, a 60 years’ resident of that
locality. Nags Omadhaun, Bonnie Bee, and other good
performers of the period belonged to him, and he once
trained Mr. Mitchell’s (Tabletop) horses.
* • * •
.Old sport, James Cosgrove, died at Marrick-
ville (Sydney) last week, aged 70. He had a lot to do
with names and mining, was a surveyor, and subsequently
Inspector of Bridges in the Public Service. The deceased
leaves a widow and nine sons and daughters.
9 * * *
Op i 0 .. 0^? 3 ® V.R.C. meet, Wakeful’s scoop of
* p ° l o° ta, ' ed £12.815, which is yet much behind Carbine’s
£29,476, though she has 13 starts to pull up, for against
M r %& or !S Carbine had 42- Since Wakeful’s owner
Mr. M Donald, refused the last English offer for his
splendid mare she has won £2693.
r ,M = r of preparing Caulfield and Melbourne
methnrt nht a - e ® thlS Beason was in stron ff contrast to the
Melhonrn^r 1 " 11^ / earS - ago - Not one went the full
Soionrn ß r®« °“ P d i ! ? tan ? e » n hl s work; nearest to it being
K? sensational lfm which shaved the record!
«ie n Wa ®. t s e llmit > and this distance was
-ga lfede d by , the ultimate winner, The
ance Gra *C b di I dnt at any time ask Abund-
nof jo nnpn c !® d llfu r- Whether the idea is a good one or
not is open to question. It would be just as well as the
andT^in 6 n \ atter - if a na £ galloped the full distance
• . 4 A row er, a runner, or a swimmer covers
• ls - l °? u f rse occasionally. Continued long sweating work
Jn«« e r b e ’ t but lC '? quite Possible manv nowaday.
trainers err just as seriously the other wav Atrainst
Cup t fleW Tookt l‘ aCt , that , the g reat bulk of the Melbourne
trainpr nf If°^ked. 1 f °^ ked . att uned to the moment, though the
charee n tt r fchou^, ht he could have had his
cnarge Detter in another couple of weeks.
• * • *
9?, rma r, d * ed brain concussion,
The lad was P ?S 1h v, *2 oseh . dt . Steeple, King’s birthday,
figured 8 l‘? d i lad b t een ndln S Bince 10 - Though he
occur re d°was his*first 1 ’ ““ Wherein the aCddent
b , rt f O /? ) races wer e responsible
Mldiiw s!fii» f oufc ;° f - tbe - wa .y happenings. Dreadnaught
davt gathered up hurdle events on each of two
thLrd * 'me Dartmoor and Surrey ran second and
the niappiln V ne ’ ® osc ° m * non and Molly Dear secured
same meeting 68 a “ d Nursery Handica P at
t * *
Last week Maorilander G. G. Stead, with his
Der d hv g H,° r t v, a ? ain c]osed on Canterbury J.O.
ree^ b H - tbe t entb time since ’B7. Time (2.37 1-5) is a
nwiur f ° r w 6 > raCe ‘ Sea son immediately preceding this
and COn i e ’ W u lesley ’ and Champagne Stakes,
5^j a ". th rd ~ n a Juvenile Handicap, and still his Derby
i idend was close on £6 for each sov. speculated.
* • • *
Atop of Canterbury (M.L.) J.C. Derby, G. G.
Stead annexed O.J.C. Cup with St. Leger-Forme mare,
Cruciform. This nag headed three-year-old list last year,
times (five in succession) in 13 starts, which
made latest triumph look fairly certain beforehand. Same
Menschikoff Same double last year - bufc with one horse—
* * * *
how nearly Vanity Fair’s bad luck-
third m Caulfield, second in Melbourne, and second in
when al h S A 0 '«"• Cnp8- para ll el s Devon’s, eight years ago,
jy b !'! be finished second in each of same events.
Stran ely enough, too, both began operations by winning
a big handicap. Devon closed on the Toorak and Vanity
r air on the Coongy. J
* • • •
A frequent visitor to St. Francis R.C. Church,
Melbourne, about 10 years ago was the mother of a
Mpih g ~W b<T n l e ve, r her bho . v was billed for ago at
Melb. Athletic Club the proud parent used to wend her
way to St. Francis and go the round of the building
kneeluiu: before the various pictures and praying fer-
vently to some holy saint to intercede so that “Mick
would win the foight.” This would last, perhaps, half-an-
tlme Mickey would be standing on
the corner of Elizabeth-street surrounded by a crowd of
admiring youths. At last the old lady wou'ld step from
j b ® P.?^ ta ! s pffi'c temple, her face glowing with religious
devotion. Mickey, she would say, as she approached,
I have prayed for ye well, and ye’ll win. But mind me
now—doan t shpare the cow ! ”
* * * *
Blusterous Tom Bent was lately said to be
considering the frequency with which permanent
employees of the Vic. railway department in receipt of
regular wages figure in the insolvency court ” The
trouble arises from the backing of “ stiffs” at the eternal
suburban race-meetings. The Vic. railways are run
mainly for the benefit of Isaac Moses. The service is in a
chronic state of betting fever.
* * • •
r \ pleasure I experienced when
1 managed to back the two dead-heaters in Williams-
town Cup was considerably enhanced by the way Ikey
Mo overreached himself. I had backed Vanity Fair and
Lleanor with different Ikeys, and the Vanity man made
no difficulty about dividing, but, like the rest of his
brethren, the other steadfastly declined to divide
J 7 eai ?? r * 1 lt; go—and drew full money when Eleanor
won the run-off. As the aggregate Ikey was busy divid-
ing Vanity right up to the start of the run-off, and as he
steadily declined to lay that mare in the final, I strolled
home suffused by that gratification we feel at the
misfortunes of our worst friends.
• * * •
Q. football-bruiser Cripps made a willing thing
of it with Harry Dawson at Sydney National, Thursday
last. Know-alls reckoned Dawson a “moral,” and laid
twos on as freely as the Crippsites would take it. The
struggle was not nerve-racking, and sometimes even
uninteresting, but nevertheless willing all the wav
Though neither could hit a knock-out blow, Cripps’ com
tinued thumps on the lips and face brought some lumps
into view and knocked a few chips off. After 10 rounds
there was plenty Cripps money at 2 to 1 on, but the fight
Btdl belonged to either, bar Cripps’ surplus of points.
The 17th round was a woeful battering for Dawson, but,
though badly broken up and a complete wreck in appear-
ance, he weathered it, only to fare worse in the next and
be counted out all mounds and fragments. Cripps has
improved a deal, and should make an extra good ’un
inside 12 months. He has the face and phyiique of
stoush PlC a PUff ’’ su ßP° rted b J r unusual insensibility to
*..* . • *
Bruiser Bill Doherty went out to Billy McCall
in the fifth round, and very mysteriously, at Sydney
National some weeks ago. Then he again went down
before Dan Creedon, also mysteriously and in the fifth
round at Melbourne Hibernian Hall. On each occasion
Doherty showed much the better man up to the moment
& 01 /?# out - Jast as everybody tried to think how Billy
McCall s push-punch did the trick, onlookers at the latest
tussie are marvelling how Creedon floored his man.
Nobody saw anything that they could blame it on, but
interested people have since explained that it was “ a sort
of sharp hook which grazed the chest and hit the chin ”
and some Victorian scrapping scribes swallowed the stor’v
open-mouthed. Fancy a blow—the force of which was
broken oathe chest—making heavy enough impact with
the chin to stretch out an armor-plated battler like
Doherty!
* « * *
Aif. Thompson fought Sam Maber (brother of
the once-fanious “ Shadow Billy ”) at Sydney Gaiety A.C.
Monday night, and there was real slugging till Thomp-
son swung a heavy right on the jaw in the third round,
and owned the situation ever afterwards ; though Maber
still fought gamely the referee, in the fifth round, stopped
further slaughter and gave Thompson the fight. A steam-
hammer jab on the mouth sent a big-pronged, sound
incisor fromJMaber’s. jaw rattling alongthe boards, and it
was scrambled for as a trophy of the butchery.
Sydney pugs are fighting shy of Melbourne.
Negro Ike Stewart went over recently and fought to a
£2O “gate ’’.against Preston, ’Murkan Scanlan did like-
wise, and now, ’tis said, Frost would have supplied a
better battle opposed to Palmer, but there was “ nothing
in the house.” Reputable boxers like those named are
always sure of big money in Sydney. McCall and Doherty
brought £6OO to the National, and Frost and McGowan
over £2OO. A little while back the Johns-Mitchell less-
than-3-rounds-fight drew £250 to the Gaiety, and the
same pair are matched again in the certain hope they’ll
get closer to £3OO this time. If Oreedon meets “ Snowy ”
Sturgeon or McCall in Sydney £5OO either match is a
certainty, and, as each of the last named will post a side
bet of £3OO, Creedon has a chance of making a big scoop.
• • • *
’Murkan Jim Scanlan (11.8) and big-girthed
Fred Preston (14st.) scuffled at Melbourne Lyceum last
week. It was a rough and tumble thing from go.
Referee Micko Walsh cautioned one or other or both fre-
quently against fouling till, midway through the fifth
round, he disqualified Preston and gave the money to
Scanlan.
• • • •
Sydney National Sporting Club wants some
heavy-weight pugs (they draw better than the lighter
section), and bruising Australia also yearns after some to
keep the Continent’s end up in scrapdom, otherwise Aus-
tralia will drop out as a factor in fist fighting. To this
end N.S.C. has been trying ambitious big-’uns with
Maori Ruenalf as the medium, but though three have
been through the mill, so far not one has shown the
merest suggestion of a Foley, Jackson, Slavin, or Goddard.
Fourteen stone, six foot, wood-chopping champion, Bill
Heckenberg, shaped best, but he hadn’t half good enough
condition inside, though outwardly—with rolls of muscle
on back and shoulders that put Sandow in the shade —he
looked a man-eater. Ruenalf couldn’t do much with
Heckenberg, but this scribe knows that a night or two
previously he was brought along for Foley (how over 50)
to test, and Larry, with the fire of other days in his eye
and a deal of the old-time vim in his maulies, flattened
the axeman out in very short order. Heckenberg and
another tried-out heavy from Newcastle district, named
Smith, fight at the National S.C., Wednesday next week,
and will surely put up a roaring scrap, even if it isn’t
scientific.
• • • •
The long-talked-of fixture between the return-
ing Australian Eleven and Rest of Australia still hangs
in the balance, owing to the old jealousy as to where it
shall be played. The Melbourne Cricket Club (which
prides itself as the “ authority ” on Australian cricket)
wants the fixture to take place in Vic. ; while the N.S.W.
Association demands that it be played in Sydney. The
S.A. Association is expected to support the gilded
M.0.C., and the latter, with the trump up its sleeve, is
awaiting the arrival of the Eleven before making a final
decision. Certainly the M.C.C. has the prior right of
claim ; but the N.S.W. Association should at least
have had the courtesy extended to it as to an
opinion where the match should take place. The best
wayoutof the difficulty would be toplayamatch in S.A.,
Vic., N.S.W., and Q., and draw as to where the first
should take place. However, more trouble is imminent
when the Eleven arrives, as, if it comes to a vote
between the players, it is certain that the N.S.W.
reps, will vote Sydney, and win by eight to six (Vic. and
S.A. having only three reps. each).
• * * *
N.S.W. had 77 to the good at close of match
with Q. Feature of the contest was the comparative
failure of N.S.W. reps, who had been doing big things in
club cricket to sustain their form. Bar Central Cumber-
land man P.ve, who topped all scores right through with
45, they didn’t rise above ordinary. In club cricket
M'Kenzie and Diamond averaged over 100 an innings yet
25 and 7 were the best they could do in Brisbane. Hoo-ue
also fell off greatly. On the other hand, C. Gregory and
W. S. Duff, who hadn’t shone at all in club cricket, made
33 and 30, and 35 and 30.
* * • •
S. Australia has unearthed a “smiter,” who
threatens to wipe out all trundlers, in Dr. Magarev.
Recently, in amatch,he opened his shoulders and smacked
the ball clean out of the ground a couple of times, while
the spectators round the ground smiled (and sighed) as
they thought of what the mighty Jessop threatened to
do. Australia has need of another McDonnell or a
Massie, and the medico (whose cognomen begins with an
“M” like his predecessors) seems likely to fill the bill.
» * » •
George Giffen, a week or two ago, made over a
century, (retired), and, last week, 88 for his club (W. Ade-
laide), which is the more remarkabb considering his age
seeing that the Federal P.O. only allows him to get awav
on alternate Saturday afternoons. That limitation has
handicapped him for several seasons, for he has either to
sacrifice pay or play.
* * • .
New England cricketer James M‘Kay is show-
ing sterling batting this season. In four visits to the
creases he aggregated 530, without having been out
T’other day he smacked together 200, not out, in an
electric sort of way. Yet he hasn’t pleased theN S W
cricket selection committee for State honors; perhaps
they expect him to knock up about a thousand,’and then
he may be picked as an emergency. There are few better
batsmen in the State than M'Kay ; but since he chooses
to play with a country team, his talent is not recognised
in metropolitan centres.
* * * *
Maclaren, it is again announced, intends to
bring out another English combination of cricketers
to beat the Australians next year. Unless it is a cut
above the last one, it had better stay at home. But the
All-England skipper accredited himself so well with his
last team that greater confidence will inspire players who
accompany him ; so Australia may look forward to a
representative combination. The last trip seems to have
benefited A. O. Jones and W. G. Quaife—the latter during
the past season in England scored 1339 runs, average
40.57 ; and Jones 1147 runs, average 31. Both players in
Australia were but fit for a second grade team ; but on a
second visit, they may have better luck.
* * • *
Sydney first grade cricket (dropped one week
through absence of State team in Q.) was resumed Satur-
day, and third round played off. Scoring wasn’t out of
the way in any instance. Leichhardt-Balmain (7 wickets
for 288) against Paddington accumulated most, and made
a good draw of the match. Once Burwood looked like
finishing similarly with Waverley, but a pronounced tail
produced a very much otherwise result, for Waverley
succeeded by 149, and now tops the list. Burwood man
G. P. Barbour, made an exceptional effort to tide disaster
with a splendidly-compiled 152, which stood out as the
thing of the competition so far and Barbour’s absolute
best display. Redfern carried too many guns for Central
Cumberland. Sydney accounted for Glebe with a sur-
plus of 52, and ’Varsity went down to North Sydney by
• » * *
Prominence of Wilson for Central Cumberland
against Redfern in first-grade cricket, Saturday, was
rGmarkablc, Th&t man had a say (6itti6r bowling 1 or
catching) in every one of 9 wickets taken; t’other was
run out.
* * * •
World’s premier oarsman Towns writes that
he’ll be ready to squelch all-comers soon after reaching
bjdney, and, failing opportunities to make money that
way, will resume boat-building at Newcastle.
* • * '*
When Dick Cavill landed last week he’d enough
medals and plated-ware to start business with as a
trophy dealer. Darker, slightly larger, the youth (who
is only just 19 now) has a much more grown-up expression
about him than when he went away. He did no training
but just swam himself into form, and did it thoroughly-’
for he never showed to better advantage than in England!
Included among the pots and medals were two English
(virtually world’s) championships, and several world’s
records. Dick insists, that he won the English 100yds
premiership, with Lane third. Considers the rank-and'
file of Australian swimmers superior to those of England,
and has no intention of leaving this country ; will
compete for all State and Australasian supremacies this
season. He has great hopes of still further reducing the
existing bests.
* • * *
In East Sydney Swimming Club is a 15-year-old
South Sea Islander who throws 50yds. behind faster than
ever Lane, Cavill and co. did, and promises to improve
some. But that burst is the end of his power always, and
afterwards he falls off to nothing. Maturity may bring
him greater stamina, and if so, he’ll have to be reckoned
with by the very best we know.
* • • •
Announced from England that Australian
swimmer Fred Lane has lately and under proper record
conditions been clocked to do the “hundred” in 59
3-ssec—just lsec. worse than Dick Cavill’s remarkable
swim over same distance.
• • * •
“Scales”: Dick Cavill is very much broken up
at his hundred in 58 3-5 not receiving recognition by the
English A.S.A. Objection is that ’Ome Swimming
Association record laws only countenance a “ best ” when
it is done by one man against the watch or in a scratch
race. Unfortunately the English authorities controlling
the meeting where the feat was accomplished arranged a
handicap with Cavill scratch man, under the impression
that they were doing the right thing, when a swim against
time would have suited the Australian and the promoters
much better. Fun of the thing is that in an enclosed
bath, such as that at Hernsev, where the figures were put
up, a swimmer is hampered by men being in front of him,
for they disturb the water considerably, causing it to
come back from the sides and ends of the basin
and form a jobble that impedes him materially, so
that Cavill would probably have done better swimming
alone. In all other branches of athletics records accom-
plished by scratch men in handicaps are accepted ; why
there should be a difference in swimming needs some
explaining. Subsequent to this Cavill went to Liverpool
and in a race with English champion Billington brought
the 300yds. world’s best down to 3.34 3-5. In his absence
it was arranged that Cavill should go again for the
hundred, but having to travel all night to reach London
in time precluded him from doing himself justice.
Making a bad turn and swimming a crooked course he
occupied 60 l-ssec. —I.ssec. outside Lane’s record.
* * * *
“ Plugger ” Bill Martin has imported, for pacing
purposes, a motor-cycle capable of doing between 40 and
50 miles an hour—something of the hair-raising pattern
with neck-breaking capabilities thrown in. Martin was
for a few seasons “ cock of the track” in Australia, but
recent displays by Don Walker and Morgan have dimmed
his glory.
**» . *
Twelve thousand people watched the finals of
the Cycling Carnival, at Sydney Cricket Ground, Thurs-
day night. Orient Plate (one mile), and attached Aus-
tralian supremacy, went to Don Walker, despite efforts
by Morgan, Megson and Walne. Thirty yards from home
Walker seemed done, but the characteristic shoot landed
him at the winning-post about 18in. ahead of Morgan,,
who was barely in front of Megson. It was a magnificent
finish. Sydney Wheel Race (also one mile) was a tre-
mendous gamble. In the last “ quarter,” Gordon, Scheps:
and Phipps were 150yds. ahead of Walker, and the
backers of the last began to get their lost cash
ready, when it was noticed he was gliding for-
ward at a tremendous rate, as if driven by an invisible
motor. The thrill of excitement could be felt running
through the vast crowd, and then, as the distance
between the flying figures lessened, it was realised that
Walker even yet might win. The great shadowy audience
held its breath, and strained its eyes on the basin where
the record spinner reeled through the amethyst light,
closing rapidly on the figures that rolled away in front.
He was on them now, and, amid thundering cheers, with
a great rush, Scheps, Gordon and Walker seemed to cross
the line together. Half-a-dozen yards beyond the win-
ning-line Walker shot clear in front, but at the psycho-
logical spot he was 24in. behind Scheps. It was the most
tremendous sprint seen on the Australian cycling track,
and the winner (Scheps) reduced the world’s best tor
the mile to 1.54. Same night Scheps (a Soustralian) won
the Ellegaa rd half-mile very brilliantly.


Frozen Fish
Has the same FRESH*
NESS and DELICACY
of FLAVOR as when
newly caught.
It can be sent with safety during the winter
months to almost any far distant railway
_ station in the States =
SMOKED FISH (our own curing) forwarded
by Parcels Post to back*country districts
Please send tor Catalogue of
the different Hinds and prices (
rshe N.S.Wo Fresh Food <& lee Co. Ltd.
Head Office and Refrigerating Works, Harbour ft^Sydney'
©
JHE ELFIN BICYCLE
for BOVS AND GIRLS
Open
Saturday
Afternoons.
Nowadays, when the world is full of Bicycles—of every make and kind—there seems little chance
for distinction. And, perhaps, with the majority of adult wheels, there isn’t much difference
between them. But no greater mistake could be made than to place all juvenile Bicycles in the
same class. Manv juveniles are patterned after adult wheels—clumsily built —a poor apology for a
child’s Bicycle. The ELFIN BICYCLE is distinctly a Child’s Bicycle—designed in frame,
wheels, pedals, cranks, saddle and handle-bars for a Child —adapted, in weight and strength to a
Child’s capabilities for speed and all-round service. It fits the child and gives an erect, natural
position. It has simple improvements not applicable to an adult’s wheel, and yet retains all the
features of an adult’s wheel.
WE HAVE JUST RECEIVED
a small stock of ELFINS, and invite those interested to call and see them.
CANADA CYCLE & HOTOR CO., Ltd.,
Branches in Every State.
357 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER
YOU GET THE BEST VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY WHEN YOU
BUY A
REMINGTON
TV
Double-Barrel .
Hammerless Gun
Thoroughly Guaranteed.
Kept n stock by the Largest Gun Stores in Melbourne and Sydney.
Remington Arms Company,
Head Office: 315 BROADWAY, NEW YORK, U.S.A.
REMINGTON GUNS, £5 10s. to £lO
REMINGTON RIFLES, 23/6 post free
McLEAN BROS. & RICO, Ltd., 107 Elizabeth-St., Melbourne
4J
Hotelkeepers, make your own
/ERATED WATERS
THE “AUSTRAL” ASRATED WATER MACHINE occupies
only Four Feet square, will produce 160 dozen BOTTLES
per day of Finest Waters (Lemonade, Ginger Ale, Sodawater,
&c.) at a COST BELOW FOURPENCE PER DOZEN. These machines
are now working in all the Australian States, New Zealand, and
South Africa,
Write •for Prices and Particulars.
Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers—
ECKERSLEY AND SONS,
214-216 Queen Street, Melbourne.
The Veterinarian.
THE DIFFERENT PREPARATIONS OF
“SALVITIS”
FOE HORSES, CATTLE, SHEEP,
PICS, &c. ARE WORTH TRYING!
SALVITIS Index of Diseases, Free.
Remedies suggested in this Column promptly supplied
by Wholesale Agents for N.S.W.—
E. RICH & COMPANY, Ltd., SYDNEY
“SALVSTIS”
Ensures abundance
of EGGS and
Healthy Poultry.
USED BY LEADING BREEDERS—I/-, 5/-, 10/-, 20/-
SALVITIS ROUP PILLS, 1/6 per box -
Wholesale Agents for N.S.W.—
E. RICH & COMPANY, Ltd., SYDNEY
SOAPS dubbed Shaving
are rarely
Shaving Soaps.
In a Class by Themselves
The World’s Standard Shaving Soaps
Williams’ Barber’s Bar
and
Williams’ Shaving Stick
“BARBER’S BAR”
While the natural Ally
Of the Deft Artist
And his Trusty Blade
Is also the Ideal Soap
For Home Use
Fits your Birthday Mug
Once tried, never changed
“Won’t Dry on the Face.”
Send a Penny Stamp and we will post you Williams’
Changing Face Puzzle. Can you explain it?
J. B. WILLIAMS CO., Glastonbury, Conn., U.S.A.;
and at 232 Clarence-st., Sydney.
By Special
Appointment.
Gr. H. SMITH and SON,
TROPICAL HELMET
with special air-space ,
in white drill , &c. and
in all colors in fdt.
10/6 and 12/6
Mat and Cap Manufacturers
and Importers,
302 George-st. Sydney
Sombrero Soft Felt Hats,
All Shades and Sizes.
Soft Felt Hombergs.
In all Sizes and Colors.
Straw Hats. Stetson Hats.
Polo Caps, Military and Naval
Caps, Livery Hats, Clerical Silk
Hats, Etc., Made to Order
POR the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “Ellis’ King Street Coffee Palace,” “a®
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor—GEO. IF. ELLIS.
The Last of Six:
Tales of the Austral By Ernest
Favenc. Paper covers, 141 pp. : price, 6d. ;
postage, 2d.
A Wobbling 1 Cabinet.
Last week Q. Assembly saw a truly pitiable
exhibition of spinelessness. The Leg. Council
sent back the Income Tax Bill amended in
respect to clause 31—a clause dealing directly with
the incidence of certain taxation. The amend-
ment would, admittedly, if accepted, reduce the
amount of revenue obtainable under the Bill, and
was, consequently, an infringement on the
rights of the Assembly. Premier Philp himself
owned the amendment to be a clear infringe-
ment of the Assembly’s undoubted privileges,
but tried to insist on ramming it down the Assem-
bly’s throat on the plea that if it were not ac-
cepted the clause as first passed by the Assembly,
would inflict an injustice on certain financial in-
stitutions. The fact that any yielding fn a matter
of this jdnd would have inflicted a grievous in-
justice on the Assembly and would have irretriev-
ably damaged the rights of that body, never
troubled the Q. Jefferson Davis one moment.
Philp struggled furiously for some hours;
protested his firmness and his rectitude, and,
finally, threw up the sponge—after the most
foolish, despairing, useless effort on record.
Interesting, isn’t it, to see the Government that
could be so stiff and stern on the poll-tax question
—a Govt, that could fight like fury for its beloved
Kanaka—a Govt, which wanted recently to cut
the painter and abjure the Commonwealth —to
see this alleged vigorous Cabinet wanting to
knuckle down at the first summons to the dodder-
ing House of Paunchy Senility.
»
John Forrest, barracking against an
Australian fleet:
There is only one sea to be supreme over, and we want
one fleet to be mistress over it.
The map shows five oceans and a good many seas,
reckoning the Caspian, Sea of Aral, and so on.
But leaving that out, here are some more plati-
tudes :
There is only one Empire to defend, and we want one
Defence Minister to defend it (this shows John should
resign).
There is only one Empire to govern and we want one
Parliament to govern it.
There is only globe to own, and we want one man to
own it.
There is only one Russia to conquer and we want one
soldier to conquer it (this would be a large job for the
soldier).
There is only one Australia to cross and we want one
railway to cross it (therefore, if Jenkins’ transcontinental
line gets there first the Westralian transcontinental
must be abandoned).
And so on indefinitely.
After a fortnight’s prorogation, Tas. Ministry
came up smiling with a whole batch of new infants
for the Leg. Council to slaughter, but before the
Speaker had time to settle himself comfortably in
the Chair, Opposition leader Propsting moved a
vote of no-confidence. Propsting wearily urged'
that the Ministry should either resign or go
to the country, or something; he didn’t seem
to care exactly what. As the division in
which Propsting was wiped out was taken
almost without debate, it would seem that Prop-
sting really moved his no-confidence motion from
sheer force of habit. Treasurer Bird reintroduces
his taxation proposals in an amended form. Chief
emendation consists in dropping the frills off his
income-house-ability-tax and going for a straight-
out income-tax on all discernible incomes. As
there is no special mention of absentees, and as
the chief object of the proposals is to compel
small wage-earners to pay income-tax, and as
there is no intention of taxing land-values at
an adequate rate, Treasurer Bird’s new infant
doesn’t appear to deserve any more merciful
fate than the old dead baby. But as supplies
have not yet been granted for 1903, and as the
House of Dodery isn’t game to risk being chased
by a crowd of unpaid civil servants, the chances
are that for once the kind gentlemen upstairs will
just mutilate the new baby, and allow it to grow
up to be a dishonor to its wretched parents.
Martin’s Apiol and Steel Pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia, price 4s. 6d.
Agents: Sayers, Allport, and Potter, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor, W. Martin, Pharmaceutical
Chemist, Southampton, England.*
SHRRPSHOOTINg
7 For Sport and War.
By W. W. CREENER.
HITS THE MARK l
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/- nett. ;
Posted, 1/2. c
The best 1/- worth ever Published,
IF you wish to get good work and value
you should purchase W.W. GREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
(Greener’s Representative!.
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY ? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Gur One-man Sulky, £5 ; 2-Spring Sulkies; £7 ;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia. £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies froni £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and made
to Order' HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE. —Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
cent, more for your requirements.
93 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
OUR SI'KUIAU No. 2
£8 18/6
Oelirered at any Wharf »r
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
W.
%
The
Vulcanised
. are faster and more
reliable than any other
tyre procurable.
No Cyclist
can appreciate the difference between our
Vulcanised tyre and the hand made tyre,
until he has ridden them, and in 12
months time he will begin to recognise
their grand wearing qualities.
Qy |* Vulcanised tyres will outlast two pairs
of any ordinary hand made ones.
Roadster Tyres guaranteed for 12 months.
Beware of imitations.
None Genuine unless Cover and Tube
bear this . . . Trade Mark.
The Dunlop
Pneumatic Tyre Co* of Aus*, Ltd*,
150 Claren=e-st., Sydney.
And at
Melb., Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane and Christchurch, N.Z.


mm
mm
sss
Hi
MP
ikV
§
1
§
js®
jS
&
o>'
n
MMH
§
H
BH
s?
r
m
M
&
&
m
ss
v\V
■
m
£
~n
sS
\
§
§§
§
$
$
$
SC**
ssi
1
<a
m
/
m*
S 5
"•
£T.4
M
S*>
J/
*
*a£
f*
<S>.
if
m
eK
K^
isr
v v-rg-w^rr^
ms?
m
1
iif
COLD CTCA'RFTTF«?tn tIS P(,st^? e Paic l a Handsome Cloth-bound ALBUM, made specially to contain Photographs, as packed with our GUINEA
ST PuT ’ 70116 S6nding US 100 ° f theSG pictUreS * We iBSUe nOW the most extraordinary and" unique raSge of Photos eSer given
The subjects have been collected with great difficulty, and represent a Gallery of extreme interest and of great educational value
from any Totacconist«teM* bUt "" a “ d **" *" *** ° £ Dktrib " ti “ theBe Alb »™ «® obtained
OGDEN’S, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
“ Mofussil ” : Re various Bulletin pars.
There are no “Hindu hawkers.” The men are
all Mahometans or Sikhs (the Sikh religion being
Mahometanism with as much Hinduism as per-
mits the Faithful to swill beer). These Sikhs,
too, are mostly ex-British soldiers—Tommy Atkins
Singh—some still wearing uniform-coats.
Writes “ Galvo ” :
The next funniest thing to a ride in an Auckland horse-
car (B., 27/9/’02) is a trip in an Auckland suburban train.
The railway is but 3ft. 6in. gauge, and the carriages sug-
gest the tin vehicles we used to drag round in the days
of our childhood. The carriages are about as comfortable
as a N.S.W. cattle-truck, and as for speed—present writer
only weighs list., yet it took 4hrs. 20mins, the other day
to carry him 30 miles. The simplest way to measure the
rate is to stand, watch in hand, at a carriage-window,
and drop your teeth out. At the end of a minute you
let the bottom set go ; then you alight and take the dis-
tance with a 2ft. rule, after which you catch the train on
the next hill. This is quicker and easier than counting
the milestones. You get so tired waiting for a milestone.
The most important part of the engine is the whistle,
which would do credit to an Atlantic liner, and needs
most of the steam in the boiler to operate it, so it’s sel-
dom sounded unless the train is standing still or coasting
downhill. If it becomes necessary to whistle on an up-
grade, the speed of the trains slacken perceptibly. Per-
haps it’s as well, though, that they do move so slowly, for
nothing better than hand-brakes and the whistle are
available for pulling-up, and this in the year of grace and
science 1902. Some reckless innovator in the service has
been vainly trying to introduce the Westinghouse brake,
which has only been in use elsewhere for a quarter-
century or so.
One thing, however, that deserves praise is the great
care with which the drivers handle theirvelocipedes. From
a railway bridge, t’other day, I was watching a train
approach, when suddenly the engine started to whistle
violently—then stopped dead, and waited while the fire-
man drove a flock of geese off the line.
“ Alexem ” : Re recent Bulletin par
about Mormon Elder Taylor’s 40 stalwart sons,
the following is from Talbot’s “Degeneracy”
(Contemporary Science series) “ Thiebault re-
ports the case of a slave-dealer who died in 1849
at Wliydah, Dahomey, leaving behind 400 widows
and about 100 children.”
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when vou
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion / If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. lerhaps your knees arc swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds j the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
ni' V Tj S , tf rV 1 ’, n to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CUKL YOU. I don t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not how being cured
bend at once for 6
ALBERT'S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and FILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Lees
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, iumuurs, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
ai urnm ri -o Gr ?? t ® ri,ain - 1/Hd- Per box. Prepared by
ALBhRI f 3, harringdon-street, London, England.
Agents l ELLIOI 1 BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look foi the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
Makes Men Strong,
2fe * i >
Do not let physical weakness mar your life. Men, young
in years, but aged in appearance, aged in vitality, wan-
featured, dull-eyed, slow-minded young men, who’ have in a
few short years thrown away the precious Vigor of Youth;
middle-aged men and old men, who fear that they have not
the force of vitality which should be theirs; men of any age
who are backing vitality, can be made new by using Dr.
Austin s ELECTRIC BELT. It will not fail. It cannot
fail, as it infuses into the weakened organs the force of life
and strength, the force which is the original of all Vital
Power—Electricity. I will guarantee to CURE any case I
will accept. Any man or woman who will secure me can
have my Belt, and
Pay When Cured.
vinera bst-»
tht zz f ,1 c A V *ll *l. * ? fc ■ P ut t 0 soak in vinegar each time before using- which corrodes
No St ,e Cl ? th ’ all vine^ar belts unclean and unhealthy*’ improved
i\o. 8 -Belt has been constructed with a view of overcoming these diffirmltioa Qrt ,q r** , i
most complete, perfect and practice], non-burning^o™sdnega?be?Wver\nv , ented. 18 ’Tl?Y^IT;’
FREE V
BOOK./
My New
women.
Illustrated Book tells
It is worth reading.
about my Belt, and how it cures the
I will send it FREE upon request.
weakness of men and
Write To-day.
The Dr. J. M. Austin Co.,
39 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA,
HERR RASSMUSSEN
will guarantee to cure Nervous Weak=
ness, Blood Diseases, Piles, Rheuma~
tism, Corpulency, Liver and Kidney
Troubles. He will send his Book Free.
All correspondence will be held
confidential.
BRISBANE : 309 Queen St.
MELBOURNE: 150 Bourke St.
WEAK, NERVOUS MEN, WHY SUFFER
WHEN you can be quickly and permanently cured by taking Herr Rassmussen’s Alfaline Vitality u u ,
thousand sufferers from DEBILITY, POOR MEMORY, WEAK SPINE DESPONDFVPV s lc lV , cur ®d so many
is dearest to R-Vital Strength Herr Rassmussen will notllS of how Wstndl?
give his skilled advice personally to all patrons of his remedies FREE OF CHARGE either in hG X P 7I ' long standing, and he will
communicate with him without delay, no matter where you live. either in llls ofhcea or h y P ost - So don’t despair, but
!BoX6S, 6s. , Courses, 235. 6d., posted. Treatment by Post a Speciality. Pamphlet sent Free.
Blood and Skin Diseases
?*°°f disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, Stone in the Bladder and Blood
Impurities guaranteed to be removed and permanently cured by '
ALFALIWE BLOOD PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d. posted.
Anaemic Women
Fi s ? ases ’ Pale -’ Life . lcss ’ and otherwise affected, should at
it AbteM U teoEiN. His lifelong experience is at their service, and his
once communicate with HERR
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS cur e them. Boxes, 6s; Courses, 235. 6d.
LIVER and KIDNEY TROUBLES cured at once by the ALFALINE LIVER and KIDNEY PILLS, Boxes Is
HiS RHEUMATIC Pills are World-famed, and his PILE POWDERS never fail ; 6s per box each.
The ALFALINE REMEDIES can only be obtained from . . .
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office- 547 George St., Sydney,
AND HIS BRANCHES AS FOLLOW—
ADELAIDE: 15 Pulteaey St.
N-Z. •• 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
W.A., PERTH: 481 Hay St.
KALGrOORLIE: 111 Hannan St.
FREMANTLE: 117 High St-
BOULDER CITY: Piesse St.


Bent’s railway system puts one man m
charge of a station and expects him to issue and
collect tickets on two platforms at once, work the
signals, answer the telephone, consign goods, per-
form all manner of shunting operations, and some-
times act as local postmaster as well. When the
employee tries to rush things through by omitting
some small detail, things are liable to happen, and
they are happening pretty frequently.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin#
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
The pea-and-thimble artist had been having
a good day when the “ chump ” walked into the
circle of the * ‘ mugs. ” ‘ 1 Try your luck, mister 1 ”
“All right.” “Five bob?” queried the man of
tricks. “A quid !” said the chump. Then, ad-
vancing, he raised the two end thimbles and said,
“Under the middle one, I guess,” pocketing the
quids at the same time. “Feels like rain,” re-
marked the showman as he gathered his goods.
“Hope we get a yard,” remarked the chump,
taking the look in the showman’s eye and
shambling off. The pea was up the showman's
sleeve, but, of course, he couldn’t give that away.
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Agents for N. S. Wales: Sayers,
Allport and Potter, Sydney. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
In these days of dental degeneracy, when
everybody’s teeth seem to begin to decay as soon
as they form in the jaw, it is comforting to know
that Mr. Spencer Nolan, of 43 Oxford-st., City,
has so perfected his system of painless dentistry
that it becomes an absolute pleasure to sit in the
plush chair and allow him to rehabilitate one’s
faulty molars and bicuspids ; and for the moderate
sum of one guinea Mr. Nolan can fit one with a
full set of beautiful teeth.*
! Disorders of
i'
| the Stomach
Regulated by
Chamberlain’s
Stomach and
Liver Tablets
Price 1/6. Just what you need.
Disorders of the stomach are, as a rule,
caused by a torpidity of the liver and bowels
and irregularity in living. When the diges-
tion is naturally weak, as is often the case
with people of middle age and older, too much
care cannot 'be used to keep the bowels
regular, for when they become constipated
the trouble is greatly aggravated. In fact,
constipation is the prime cause of nearly
all disorders of the stomach. Keeping the
bowels regular, however, will not alone cure
these disorders. Only easily digested food
should be taken, and that moderately and
well masticated, And at regular hours.
Fully six hours should elapse between meals,
so as to give ample time for digestion and
allow the stomach a period of rest before
more food is taken. The liver and whole
digestive apparatus needs toning up, for which
purpose take two Chamberlain’s Stomach
and Liver Tablets to begin with and then
one tablet each day for a few days until the
disorder is corrected, They should be taken
immediately after supper. In case one tablet
a day does not keep the bowels free, take two;
or if one each day causes the bowels to act
too freely, take only one every other day.
r
NOTE.—If notable to obtain Chamber-
lain’s Stomach and Liver Tablets locally,
a package will be sent, post paid, upon re-
ceipt of 1/6, or six packets for 8/-, by
addressing Chamberlain Medicine Co., 64
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. 123
LADIES.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address—L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
THE GREAT
BENDIGO
EXHIBITION
ART UNION
To be drawn at Bendigo on
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 24.
TOTAL PRIZES, £2400
£1 000 for fs-
£looo for is.
PRIZES TO THE O O/LClfl
VALUE OF DISTRIBUTED.
Ist Prize, £lOOO 7th Prize, £25
The committee undertakes to provide a purchaser for
the full value of the first prize, less 10 per cent. ; for £250
worth of the second prize, and for £l5O of the third prize
pictures. The winners of the fourth to the twelfth prizes
will have the option of selecting their own pictures.
LAST WEEKS OF SALE.
Secure your Tickets Early from all Stores, Newsagents,
and Stationers throughout Australia.
GEO. V. ALLEN,
General Secretary,
17 Garraway’s Chambers, Queen’s Walk,
Collins Street, MELBOURNE, opp. Town Hall.
Missing Friends.
pDWARD EGAN, son of James and Sarah
** Egan (nee McVay), once settled in Volet
Town, and Kyneton, Vic., please communicate
with J. T. FIDLER GOORAM, Gong, Victoria.
Money awaiting you.
THE mother of PHILIP HERSEE will be
grateful to any person able to give her news
of her son, last heard of in Sydney. Address :
MRS. HERSEE,
Hythe, Kent (England).
Absolutely Unique in Quality >■
<TSTS, (XPRESS
CIGARETTES
(Virginia Grade)
fir®!
a «■
No. 555
No. 99S
Of Most High-Class Tobacconists and Stores.
If unobtainable locally, write to
HOFFNUNG & CO., Merchants, Pitt=st., Sydney.
Sole Manufacturers: ARDATH TOBACCO CO., 44 Worship Street, London, England.
imv
HIVH
CEO 0-0
JMm;
All Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. ' Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
S3T For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATUR ALINE.
fl®- For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.: postage, 9d. extra.
Washington 11. Sour, & 00.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT
HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND. Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
•X’O T-» n F'Y COMPETITION.
WINES ne Bed SPIRITS.
manufacturers of mineral WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
TC aii t Brewerv. SYDNEY.
fIUTH
OZINC
BOX
• "r A
M-
t'
Of'-
£ Crozine, Blacking
C. L. HAIJTIIAWAY e* SONS, Boston, Mass., t.SA.
is a waterproof polish that produces a brilliant and permanent
gloss, which will not rub off. Shoes polished with “ Crozine
Blacking ” wear long, because it is an oil dressing, which softens
the leather. “ Crozine Blacking ”is guaranteed to be absolutely
free from all harmful substances, and will be found to be the
most satisfactory dressing made for all walking boots and shoes.
Sold almost everywhere. If not found, write at once to
<?
5
C
d
c
$
rflirto There’S SECURITY in
Carter's
ITTLE
IVER
PILL Si
W Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
i FURRED TONGUE.
I INDIGESTION.
' CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
They TOUGH the
Be
LIVER
Sure they are
Carter's
The Inky Way.
T n the pre-train and telegraph days Melb. reporters
got an occasional chance of making a scoop. A scoop
which did not quite come off was one attempted by the
late G. P. Smith, afterwards Attorney-General in the
second M'Culloch Ministry. G.P.S. was sent to Kilmore
in ’59 to report an important speech of Premier
O’Shanassy for the Argus, the late H. J. Smith,
afterwards a very prominent journalistic figure, per-
forming the same duty for the Age. The speech began
at 7.30 p.m., and, as there were 40 miles of road to be
covered, the reporters agreed that they would send in no
copy till they got back to the city on the following day.
As soon as Big John had finished his address, and the
questioning had begun, G.P. was seized with terrible
pains and asked H. J. to take a note for him while he re-
tired to get a glass of brandy. As soon as the sham in*
valid was outside, he jumped on his horse, rode into
Melb., and his report appeared in next morning s Argus
while the Age had not a line. But, as luck would have it,
hj f far the most important part of O’Shanassy s address
was delivered in reply to a question. The belated Age
report contained that, and the Argus missed it.
• * * *
A particular entry in the “ duty-books ”of Melbourne
papers, which in the past was only signed by the reporter
with a shudder, was “Women’s Hospital meeting, Town
Hall, 4 p.m.” By the reform of the committee the
item has now lost' its terrors and the scribe takes his
place at the table, with the feeling that he is reporting
business, not a society function. Under the Catmittee
regime copy was drastically censored on the spot, and
several times during the progress of a scratch-and-spit
the scribes would be ordered out, to stand on the mat
while something that was not fit for a reporter’s ears was
discussed. Reporter might miss a resolution or two and
nothing said about it, hut if he got away without a full
and correct list of “ those present,” influence would be
strenuously used at bis office to compass his undoing.
On one occasion a new man was marked for the engage-
ment. He bowled up to the door, knocked smartly, and
entered, quite unaware that the dejected-looking person
in the passage was the other reporter, who had been
turned out to wait till he was wanted. Heedless of the
stony glare focussed upon him, the reckless penman
pushed onwards to his doom. The end was sharp and
short. The whole of the members rose simultaneously,
and, towering over him, with a united dramatic gesture,
pointed silently to the door, and by concentrated will-
power fairly swept the wretched man from the room.
The men of that catmittee never counted for much ;
they were there merely to give a flavor of “ whiskers ” to
the'proceedings ; but the feminine endeavor was to make
membership the hall-mark of society.
This year’s country newspaper proprietors’ conference
in Sydney was not patronised so effusively as usual by
the representatives of the big dailies. You see the
newspaper postage issue has now been settled.
“Go on the Press, young man.” There is practically
no enterprising rivalry between the various Australian
dailies. The ever-increasing tendency is to cut down
expenses. When Melba came, instead of trying to out-
Herald S.M. Herald, Melb. Argus arranged with that
wealthy proprietary to send one reporter between them.
Similarly D.T. and Melb. Age joined forces to jointly send
one man to Brisbane to meet the Miowera. Almost
everything is “syndicated” nowadays, from cables to
market reports.
.* • • *
This, from a Southern paper, is worthy of a place in
the gallery of printers’ errors “ The Irish of Napier
(N.Z.), great in their faith of Seddon’s statecraft, have
petitioned him to secure the anatomy of the Old Sod, by
breathing the words, ‘ It must be done,* in King Ned s
ear.
• » • •
The disadvantage of not having, on the Arbitration
Court, a man acquainted with the technicrffities of the
trade involved in the dispute, was very strikingly shown
when the Westralian Court tried its hand on tike linotype-
wages row. From the start the Judge and the lay
members, none of whom had ever seen a linotype at work,
lost themselves in arguments about “ fat,” and “ extras,’
and “catch-lines,” and “working to the slug,” and
“ house marks," and “ ens,” and “ leads cast on the bar,
and “ stab ”; and at the end of the second day, as the
Court was still quite at sea, the parties were encouraged
to try and fix up the thing among themselves. And when
the parties came in and said that they couldn’t agree as
to what “fat” really was, the Court just writhed in
abject impotence. , * »
Hobart Clipper has been recently saying things about
some Tas. politicians, and, as a result, has had the matter
of its sureties brought under the notice of the Assembly.
Under the Flyspeck’s Newspaper Act, bonds worth £l6OO
are insisted upon ere publication is allowed. But, as
there is no law to compel a bondsman to remain sol-
vent, and no workable machinery whereby a bondsman
may be made to prove that he still “holds” the amount
of his bond, the intention of the Newspaper Act is got
from under. This is not in accord with ancient Y.D.L.
traditions, and as V.D.L. traditions are not to be lightly
slighted in Tasmania, Premier Lewis proposes to legislate
afresh to meet the trouble. In the discussion under
notice, D. C. Urquhart, ex-Attorney-General, pertinently
pointed out that, if newspapers were to be compelled to
find heavy bonds as security for libel-verdict pot-hunters,
the Premier, who might libel people in his political capa-
city, should also be compelled to find bonds.. Urquhart s
tendency to speak unpleasant truths is getting him dis-
liked.
• * • *
A firm of women dentists is building large pre-
mises in Collins-st. E. (Melb.).
* » * *
In the 50’s and early 60’s, 90 per cent, of the Melb. jour-
nalists were “ lushingtons.” Now they are a shade more
sober than the Presbyterian Assembly, which is not un-
kindly to an erring brother in his cups. AVhen, in ’62, the
late B. C. Aspinall referred to “ a couple of beery re-
porters ” as being the principal persons at a particular
meeting, the remark seemed so natural that it passed
without comment from any quarter.
Harry Moranfc and his sorry fate, told of
in “ Bushman and Buccaneer ” (now in its second
edition). The history of the Breaker and his
verses and letters, including photo, reproduction
of the Pietersburg gaol MS. Price one .hilling.
Booksellers and Bulletin office (post free is. la.)
Advertising nowadays is largely robbed of
its hideousness by art methods, and if the arUs at
times spelt too much with a capital A the
garishness of somebody's silent pill, or the obvio is-
ness of the universal homely mustard, is relieved.
Even in Australia, where art in everything is
usually strangled by the prevailing hunger or
cheapness, there seems to be a little wavelet.
Sir Joseph (he got the bun title while Lord
Mayor of London) Causton and Sons, the
big London printers, who pressed Hassall, Cecil
Aldin, Louis Rhead, and the daring chromatic
colorist, Munning, into poster and show-card
work, are trying their methods in Australia to
run art on to the hoardings and into the grocer s
shops. Tooheys have seen the force of their
arguments and secured a smart piece of John
Hassall’s work for reproduction by them, iwo
old cronies are telling a story, and Hassall masses
that story into the chuckle on their faces in his
inimitable way. The picture scored at the London
Sketch Club Exhibition in London, Causton
secured it, and now Tooheys have bought it to
demonstrate that Australian beer and art can
sometimes go together without injury to either.


Senator Matheson points out that Albany
(W.A.) fort is manned by 13 men, of whom five
are gunners, the other eight being superiah officah
persons!
The strange workings of the female'brain !
A child was found on a doormat and traced to a
young woman who had been confined in Melbourne
Women’s Hospital. When the detectives asked
her what she had done with her infant she told
them a fearful tale of murder and interment—said
that she had held her baby under the water in the
Yarra until it was drowned, and that she had then
taken it to a garden in Kew and buried it.
At the spot indicated were foot-marks similar
to those made by the young woman, but on
digging nothing could be found. The woman was
then confronted with the child which had been
left on the door-mat several days before, when she
remarked, “ Oh, that’s my baby. I’m so glad!”
She informed the detectives that she really
thought she had killed and buried her child. She
remembered going out with the baby on the night
on which it was found, but recollected nothing
more about it until two days afterwards, when she
missed it, and thought she had destroyed it.
The great increase in the number of tram-
way accidents in Sydney has led to much specula-
tion, and there has even been talk of a Parliamen-
tary commission to find out the why and
wherefore. After all, it is difficult to see what
there is to inquire about. The streets of Sydney
are narrow, tortuous, and unsuited to trams.
The public demands trams, also plenty of them,
and a fast service—when the service is slow the
public writes to the papers about it. The driver
is expected to get there ; if he doesn’t he is liable
to get the sack. If any inquirer goes down
George-st., or Oxford-st., on the front of a car at a
busy time he finds that about every ten or twenty
yards somebody wanders gently across the line
just in front of the vehicle, and clears it with
nothing worth mentioning to spare. The
driver, to be quite safe, ought to slacken
down every time, but if he did his
car would be 15 minutes late, and would
block everything behind it, and people would
write to the papers. Also, there would be
an appalling jerk every half-minute or so, and the
jerk would throw Dan O’Connor right off the
vehicle. Not being able to tell which tired person
is the one who is going to loaf a fraction of a
second too long the driver probably runs over him.
Then there is a row, yet the public can’t expect a
driver and a prophet at the wages of a mere driver.
Other troubles are the person who will jump on or
off while the vehicle is moving—very often he
waits till it starts and then steps off to show how
calmly he can do it; the person who gets on or off
at the wrong side without looking to see what is
coming; the person who passes behind a car
without looking to see if the other line is clear;
the woman who starts saying good-bye to her
friend after the car has stopped, and makes a few
remarks about the baby and the servant, and then
gets out of the vehicle (which has started
again) and falls; and, last of all, the drunk.
Almost all these people write to the papers
more or less. It is impossible to have a frequent
and swift car service without it occasionally
running over a slow population, and that is the
whole mystery.
The day the Waverley electric service com-
menced there were over a dozen small accidents
from one cause alone. The individual who used
to jump on the old tram while it was running
jumped on the new one instead, lost his footing
owing to the different style of architecture, turned
two somersaults, fell in the gutter, and rose
stating that he would get the driver dismissed. It
is difficult to know what to do with this kind of
person.
An interesting feature of the new Valtellina
Hallway in Northern Italy is the introduction of 3000
volts, three phase alternating as the working pressure
at the motors, power being supplied to the line from a
generating station which utilises the water power of the
Adda Falls, the transmission line pressure being 20 000
volts. The equipment has been installed by Messrs.
Ganz and Co., of Budapest, and much information re-
specting the method of working, known as the “ Kando”
system, was given during the arbitration proceedings to
determine whether this particular high-tension system
should be applied to the working of the Inner Circle.
The essential points of the system, which has now
silenced all the objections of its opponents, were detailed
in the evidence on behalf of the Metropolitan Railway
Co., and will be found very fully reported in the “Elec-
trician, vol. xlviii., pp. 91,101, and 132.*
amusements.
piTZGERALD BROS.’
HUGE CIRCUS & MENAGERIE,
IN THEIR OWN PERMANENT BUILDING,
JUST ACROSS PRINCE’S BRIDGE, ST. HILDA RD., MELB.
A CIRCUS COMBINATION WITHOUT A PARALLEL
IN EXISTENCE.
The Grand New Change of Programme a Decided and
Emphatic Success.
THE MARVEL—
HSRR JF» A. Gr E T.,
Lifts a Lion, a Horse and a Jockey, and a Genuine Set
of Heavy Weights.
AND WE WANT EVERYONE TO TEST THEM.
3 f '’ 2s > an / 1 one Shilling. Children half-
price to all parts (except the pit).
FRANK JONES, Representative.
NOVEL AND INTERESTING.
ACETYLENE CAS BUTTONHOLE LAMPS
Nickel-plated,
for one hour.
Each charge gives powerful light
Is 6d each, postage 2d extra.
Cheapest House for Calcium Carbide.
£3" Send for Catalogue.
BRANDT BROS., 236 Ktt Street, Sydney,
and 422 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
_____ Amusements.
■ YCEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
™ 1 -lessee Mr. Wm. Anderson.
Sub Lessee .. .. Bland Holt.
EVERY EVENING, EVERY EVENING,
BLAND HOLT’S
Drury Lane Social and Sporting Spectacle,
THE DERBY WINNER.
POPULAR PRICES—3s,, 25., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus, Manager.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
SOLE LESSEE
Manager.. ..
.. Mr. JOHN F. SHERIDAN.
Mr. Frank Weathersby.
EVERY EVENING at 8,
The Musical and Dramatic Play,
UNCLE TOU’S CABIN
John F. Sheridan as Marks the Lawyer.
JUBILEE HYMNS, CAKE WALKS,
SONGS, DANCES, &c.
REAL BLOOD HOUNDS.
SPECIAL MATINEE, SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 22.
Doors Open, 1.30 ; Commence, 2.15.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. PRICES—3s., 25., Is. 6d., & Is.
pALACE THEA T R E, SYDNEY.
" Uesgees •• •• Henry Lee and J. G. Rial.
SUB-LESSEE and MANAGER, WILLIAM ANDERSON.
EVERY EVENING at 8 Sharp,
The Latest London Dramatic Novelty,
THE WORST WOMAN IN LONDON.
. Complete and Instantaneous Success,
MISS EUGENIE DUGGAN as FRANCES VERE.
Supported by William Anderson’s Famous Dramatic Co.
Popular Prices—3s, 2s, Is 6d, & Is. Plan at Elvy’s. Early
Door Tickets, White Rose Confectionery Shop, Pitt-streefc.
A. Middleton, Bus. Mangr. ; Michael Joseph, Treas.
THEATRE ROYAL, BYDNEY.
■ Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2,
LAST 2 NIGHTS of
SHERLOCK HOLMES.
Mr. CUYLER HASTINGS as SHERLOCK HOLMES,
Supported by Mr. Williamson’s
SPECIALLY ORGANISED DRAMATIC COMPANY.
SATURDAY NEXT, NOV. 2’2, “ IF I WERE KING.”
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Prices as Usual.
TL V ° L 1 . THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
The Clever Comedian and Mimic, MARK ANTHONY.
J. W. WINTON, the Popular Entertainer.
THE GREAT HARBECKS, THE NAWNS, WILTON
BROS., NEVA CARR-GLYNN, ELSIE M’LACHLAN
CLARENCE SISTERS, MONTROSE TROUPE, FLORRIE
GALLIMORE, ERNEST SULLIVAN, EILEEN BOYD.
R
HOUSE,
1 ICKARDS’ NEW OPERA
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mr. HARRY RICKARDS
EVERY EVENING, at 8 p.m.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS at 2.30 p.m.
PAUL CINQUEVALLI.
WALLACE BROWNLOW.
Willie SCHENCK BROTHERS Chartfe
SAM HOLDSWORTH. FRED. POPLAR. KITTY WAGER.
_ Prices 35., 25., Is. Plan at Allan’s.
DRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE!
Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
EVERY EVENING. 3rd WEEK.
Mr. Geo. Musgrovc’s New English Comedy Company.
in the Fascinating, Fantastical drama,
The Sorrows of Satan.
founded on G. A. Sala’s story of “Margaret Foster,” and
Mane Corelli’s Famous Novel, The “ Sorrows of Satan.”
USUAL PRICES. Box Plan at Allan’s.
•fHEATRE ROYAL. MELBOURNE.
CUT LeSSee Mr ' Bla,ld Holt.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. William Anderson.
Bus. Manager, James Hendy. Treas., Julius Grant.
WILLIAM ANDERSON'S Famous Dramatic Organisation
in the Brilliant Dramatic Novelty,
SATURDAY NIGHT IN LONDON.
First Production in Melbourne.
Prices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
|JER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ ■ Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. Tallis. Treas., E. J. Tait.
FRIDAY, NOV. 21, LAST NIGHT of
Mr. J. C.. Williamson’s ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in
THE TOREADOR.
SAT., NOV. 22, Grand Revival after a lapse of six years
of Gilbert and Sullivan’s Most Celebrated and
Universally Popular Opera, THE MIKADO.
Pnoes as Usual. Box Plan at Allan's.
>IJOU THEATRE,
* Lessee and Manager
Business Manager
MELBOURNE.
William F. Hawtrey.
Leonard Davis.
LAST NIGHTS of the THE HAWTREY COMEDY CO
Grand Revival of the Most Fascinating Play of
Modern Times,
A MESSAGE FROM MARS.
Popular Prices—3s., 25., Is. Matinee every Wednesday
Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’and The Grand.
R. BENTLEY YOUNG, Representative.
MELBOURNE.
OWN
HALL,
Under the Direction of F. VERT.
NEXT RECITAL—
SATURDAY EVENING, 22nd NOV.
MDLLE.
ANTONIA DOLORES,
Assisted by
MR. CLARANCE NEWELL.
PLAN AT ALLAN'S, m &£T PRICES.—Ss., 35., 2s.
J« NEVIN TAIT, Manager.
Under Vice-Regal
Patronage
And by
Special Appointment
Mrs* William Green and Miss Green
Professors of Ballroom Dancing-, Deportment, Graceful
Carriage, Etiquette and Calfsthenic Exercises.
The Latest Society Skirt Dances. Classes arranged for at
private residences. Colleges and Convents attended.
..... olasses in suburbs. Prospectus—
Ellerslie,” 100 Nicholson-st., Pitzroy.
r * he Strong Man, now appearing with .Fitz-
nnrrpnnrP lrC -rK’ *? the ro “^ hest and readiest lion-tamer
aW InH fi ™?i lu ,!?J >y .’ hobbedehoy beast that he pulls
fiwn Pn!d fi i y bits in his arms, has no docility apart
i’p H femmgly it only tolerates its master’s
irreverent conduct from force of habit. Pagel bought the
ion in its infancy, and used to toss it into the air. g Since
grown too heavy to toss, he grabs his growling
nr t ? est be can > and holds it above his head,
or level with his head, according to how the burden suits
the dispnmf 6 "? 6 ' to whether the lion is reconciled to
the besfflge aCt ’” Pagel himBe,f ou^ht to be
R tmn^ e^!en gr p Hve , ry ‘ Bta ! ),e .' keeper relates that, when
keen ge i was Bta > r ' n ? m that town, he used to
whT pJ' i , a . lo ? s , e box at the stables. One morning,
nla™ e /t Ke l WaB !? 8ld ?. tbe looBe box patching up weak
?ntm»l 4 keep . tbe bon f rom tumbling through, the
tnlT approached cautiously from behind, and nipped
*.nd g hfffL o tn hl K m ? St flesh y 'Pot. Pagel twisted round
and b ’*! ed the beast on the jaw, knocking it silly for a
moment or so. Then the lion's tail got between its legs,
il dr ®PP? d funn y business for the day. Mrs. Pagel
Hec i>t, b u aBtaB 4 ap . et ’ takin K all sorts of playful liber-
ties with his majesty. But Leo will one day rise and
have a meal; he always does, in the long run.
Melba’s absence from the Melbourne Cup was a busi-
ness-like proceeding. When the local Herald telephoned
to ask the prima donna why she hadn’t gone to Reming-
ton, she replied that it was a hot day, and she was resting
in readiness for her next night concert.
» Melb. voice-trainer Parkinson, associated for nearly 40
years with such singing stars as Patti, Madame Sherring-
ton, and many others who were a.t the front in the Ws
and 70 s, admits that never a one of them came quite up
to the artistic standard achieved by Dolores. There were
plenty of bigger voices, he declares, but never such
deliciously pure singing. Also their repertoire for any
n t eB «°l« c ? ncertB wasaBinextensive a 8 Melba’s, whereas
that of Dolores seems illimitable.
That is no truth in the story that President Chaffey
" ak f- on receiving the appointment of Australian
representative to attend the Delhi Durbar, paid an early
morning visit to Melb. Zoo and practised riding on an
elephant. But he went to Fitzgeralds’ circus and gazed
thoughtfully at Lizzie. *
The beautiful “blueness” of Haddon Chambers’s new
play, A Modern Magdalen," in which Nellie Stewart
created the name part, seems to explain why the first
Australian production was conferred upon Holy Adelaide.
v* be a fixed rule of managerial etiquette to give
Adelaide first helping from a spiced dramatic joint.
Likely that Amy Castles will take ’Ome her light-tenor
brother, in addition to sister Dolly. While the girls con-
tinue their singing studies, it is intended that brother
George shall follow a commercial occupation. His voice
however, is well worth a share of the general attention!
resembling that of Orlando Harley, last here
with Albam—and there is room in the world for good
tenors nowadays. b
With both Adelaide theatres remaining closed, Melba
has had all the field to herself at the Town Hall. The
small city, having no “ old-times ” associations to go on.
e ? 4 A j , ed J oVer , her comin K but moderately. The Mayor
of Adelaide welcomed her at the station, and the Lieut.-
Governor s carriage, with an A.D.C., was waiting to drive
her to the York, half of the ground-floor of which had
been refurnished and set apart for her. But, up to the
morning of the first concert, there were still seats to be
had at all prices.
Lempriere Pringle, who will sing with Melba in the
extract-of-grand-opera season, was re-imported by Mus-
grove for the particular purpose of taking principal man
part in The Fortune Teller,” which comic opera comes
along presently.
“ Paul Jones ” is in hand at Her Majesty’s, Melb. Some
years ago—in ’9s—there was a revival by the Williamson
co., with Wallace Brownlow for the buccaneer, but any
revival at that time was bound to Buffer bv comparison
with the first Australian performance. The* new’ genera-
tion has no critical memories of Marion Burton, Nellie
Stewart, Aggie Kelton, Snazelle, Geo. Leitch, Woodfield
John Gourlay, etc. They were an exceptionally good co!
for Planquette s opera, but now that they are forgotten
there should be a chance for a new “ Paul Jones ” to
flourish. Florence Young ought to make a sufficiently
imposing title figure, considering that the other girls are
physically brief.
A Newcastle hotelkeeper, who had gained acquaint-
ancemth the moonlight flitter kind of mummer, was
asked by an advance agent to quote terms for his co., but
found Bung was not having any. “ But this is a tip-ton
co. ; your money will be all right. The • Flying Jack-
sons are good for ’’ “The ‘Flying Jacksons’!”
interrupted Bung ; “ they don’t come here. The last I
had got away too quick for me, and they weren’t flyers
No flyers for me ! ”
Mr. Pole, a present worthy Melbourne citizen, was the
Roscius of over 40 years ago. As a boy of 16, he acted
Hamlet with approval, and played Macbeth at Melb
Royal, to the Lady Macbeth of Mrs. Vickery. Pole is
satisfied w.ith not having become a G. V. Brooke or Barrv
Sullivan. 1
Some time ago a workman (not of the staff) was fatally
injured by an elephant of Fitzgeralds’ circus, Melbourne
The only cause assignable for the beast’s anger was that
a dog to which he was much attached had been taken
away from him. When the elephant Lizzie was being
entrained at Bendigo recently, by-the-way, she turned
very rusty, and could not be appeased until the lilliputian
rTT; bat P erforms with her was brought on to the
platform.
Pinero, records an Australian in London, is very like
Harry Rickards, but is absolutely bald. Mr. Rickards
as is well known, boasts a luxuriant thatch.
The tone of voice and imperious, staccato elocution of
Mrs. Sidney Drew are so very like Nance O’Neil’s that the
claim of striking individuality for the Elizabethan lady
is no longer tenable. Mrs. Drew, the daughter of M’Kee
Rankin, was his dramatic pupil, like Miss Nance in later
years. The difference in the work of the two actresses is
the result of the difference between their temperaments
Trained in the same school, Mrs. Drew is a feminine
reminder of the harder and more masculine Nance.
The Nance'O’Neil season in London seems to have been
mismanaged in every possible way. There were squalid
scenes through the supers not being paid promptly and
yet the “ season ” had not lasted a fortnight. After the
successful tour of Australia, and the (reported) triumph
in S’Africa, there ought to have been enough cash in the
locker for a 12 nights’ run.
Overheard in the d.c. : “ I suppose Nance O’Neil will
come back to Australia as a strong-woman show, now."
Melba starts her Maoriland tour at Dunedin on Jan.
14th, and leaves Auckland for San Francisco on the 23rd!
Otago Witness, which still talks of Maoriland as “ the
colony,” is enthusiastic concerning the reconstructed
Dunedin Princess’s Theatre. The city is at last free from
“ the stigma of not having a theatre worthy of the name.”
But, and alas ! “the great change in the erection of t)ie
gallery above the dress circle has its little drawbacks
Bald pates in the well of the stalls below are a temptation
to the gallery youths not altogether neglected on Satur-
day night."
Students at the Marshall Hall Conservatorium, trying
to live up to the precepts of their eccentric mentor, can
hardly help the development of some laughable affecta-
tions. An act from Verdi’s “ Aida ”is shortly to be put
on at the annual Conservatorium show. When the black-
haired “Prof.” was spoken to on the subject, he agreed
to conduct the excerpt, “ but, as for orchestrating t.he
alleged music of that Italian vulgarian,” he exclaimed,
tragically, “ that’ll never do. I simply can’t. It would
make me ill for a month.” Accordingly, the orchestration
is being done by Bertie Zelman, the scores used by
Williamson’s disbanded co. having been burnt up in the
fire at Sydney Majesty’s. Seeing that “ Aida ” is one; of
Verdi’s concessions to Wagnerian development, Marshall
Hall must surely detest the man more than the music.
Gertrude Elliott plays “ Little Britain ” in the London
production of “ Mice and Men.” Maxine Elliott’s sister
must have altered a lot since Australia saw her if she can
compare favorably with Nellie Stewart as the foundling
Larizza, the stiff-built little tragedy-tenor of William-
son’s Italian Opera Co" is said to have died in Naples a
few weeks ago. In his younger days Commendatore
Larizza must have had a really great tenor organ. When
Australia heard him at the age of 40 or more (and it
heard him deteriorating all the time) there was only the
“ robustness ” of the voice remaining to his credit, hut
even as a shouter of high notes he was often startling.
And he was one of the best actors we have seen in
opera. His full knowledge of the music left him at
liberty to throw himself into the put, and he threw
himself. In Italy, and elsewhere in Europe, he was
appreciated for his power, intelligence and experience.
Australia hurt his feelings by making a favorite of Dani,
an artist of very minor importance in their own country.
Sousa, who has been billed to shortly appear in Aus
tralia (but he isn’t coming, being engaged elsewhere for
years ahead), took musical London by storm. On this
American’s march music the sun never sets. Tou may
hear it played by the band of the Sultan’s Guard in
Constantinople, by the Cossacks of the Czar in St. Peters-
burg, or by the cocky’s concertina in the Australian bush.
“ There is no dashed subtlety about Miss Nance O’Neil’s
acting ; she is an actress practised in the arts of the
pompous old school, and I do not think an actress could
get any more effects than she does out of the long-winded
part of Elizabeth.”—London Referee.
Frank Thornton understudied for Grossmith during
the 300 nights of the first London run of “ lolanthe.”
One morn Frank said—“ George, you are not looking very
well. Allow me to recommend you a pill.” George wasn’t
taking any.
The cable storj - that Mascagni, the “ Cavalleria” com-
poser, was arrested by his Yankee managers on a breach-
of-contract charge, and is now seeking 50,000 dollars
damages for false arrest, reads very like an advt. for the
show. Mascagni seems to have a genius for notoriety,
anyhow.
Pretty well every mining field produces its “ musical
family." Broken Hill’s m.f., in which it once took a
noisy pride, was the Welsh Francis family—in later days
an effective quartette of tenor, contralto, baritone and
bass, but finally broken up a week or two ago by the un-
timely death, through lead-poisoning, of the basso, whose
voice was probably the finest of the bunch.
Irving’s denial of the statement that he intended to
visit Australia was given to the London correspondent of
an Australian newspaper. Up to last month Irving had
not begun to discuss anybody’s terms for a tour in this
country. Judging from the present appearance of (Aus-
tralian theatrical business, he is not likely to be besieged
with offers for the coming year.
I Some Political Possibilities.
Mr. Barton’s enthusiastic support of the pro-
posals for an increased naval tribute to England,
and for granting a tariff preference to the same
country—in each case without a quid pro quo—
certainly suggest that he is tired of the Federal
Premiership. From all that can be gathered by
sounding individual members, the increased naval
tribute proposal will have little chance in the
House of Representatives ; the Labor party will
oppose it, and those of the Freetrade Opposition
not against it on its merits, will probably be
against it, so as to be against the G-overnment;
and there is further a large section of Government
supporters unfavorable to the increased subsidy
with its attendant decrease of the advantages
in return. The Imperial preferential trade
*dea has an even more hopeless outlook. To that,
too, the Labor party is opposed ; the Freetraders
will be hostile to any increase of the duties on
foreign goods as a means of giving aid to English
exporters, and any tariff decreases are made impos-
sible by the financial position. Further, more
than one member of the Cabinet has declared
plainly—within the past few weeks and since Mr.
Barton’s return—that an English preferential
trade idea is impossible, and even if it were
not impossible it would be the height of folly
to bring it forward before the next general
election. There is a disposition to let the tariff
rest, to avoid arousing the fiscal dogs, dry or
otherwise, again, and to get on with the pressing
work of Federal legislation. Mr. Barton’s atti-
tude is thus out of sympathy with the Opposition,
with the Labor party, and with his own Cabinet.
A hopeless position of that sort can only be ex-
plained on two grounds: That Mr. Barton is
tired of his present office and intends to move
into a comfortable, permanent billet shortly r or
that Mr. Barton has developed a capacity for
reckless blundering which beats all records. If
we were not discussing an issue of practical
politics, a third contingency might be allowed—
that Mr. Barton sincerely believes in the prin-
ciples he now advocates, knows the danger of
supporting them, but from conscientious motives
intends to attempt to carry them through, even
though his Cabinet falls. But in practical politics
considerations of that sort do not obtrude. The
issue is narrowed down to two possibilities. The
first seems the most likely—that Mr. Barton
contemplates a translation. There is certainly
this against it, that Mr. Barton, with all his
faults, is not sordid, and is optimistic. It would
go against his grain to slip into the security of a
high-salaried permanent billet; and it would seem
to him in a measure unnecessary, because he
cannot see the possibility of ever being defeated,
otill, it is hardly possible to credit the Premier
with enough foolishness to think that he can carry
through the increased naval subsidy and the
preferential-trade-with-England proposals. It
seems necessary to believe that Mr. Barton con-
templates resignation.
4
Sydney D.T. and Sydney Herald rapidly
approach one another in policy and character;
but there is still a difference. S.M.H., on Monday
morning, gave first place on its contents-bill to the
fact that a lunatic had fired at a carriage which
might have contained, but didn’t contain, that
disreputable old rascal, the King of the Belgians.
D.T., same day, gave first place, as the most
important bit of news, to the fresh facts about
the Elingamite wreck.
Mr. Justice Real, in Brisbane the other
day, remarked from the Bench that a man over a
certain age should not make a will, as an old man
was under the domination of those about him.
But isn’t the young man liable to domination too?
Logically, wills, whether executed by old men or
young men, should be reviewed by the Probate
Court when bequests contradict the ordinary
natural law. The “certain age ”of the testator
is not the question. The rationality of his will is
the question. The Court should be supreme to
modify or nullify unreasonable wills.
The Age has already begun to rend
Premier Irvine’s Ministers for departmental
short-comings. _ Mines Minister Cameron is casti-
gated for appointing, as permanent boss of his
department, a P.M. instead of a practical miner;
whilst M'Kenzie has been jumped on for failing
to carry out ex-Minister Duggan’s policy of
throwing open Gippsland areas for settlement.
Also, Bent has been incidentally informed that he
has “ lost his head.” The reasons for all this are
not hard to seek—the Age hasn’t been able to
skim all the cream_ off the news before the other
cat.
The imagination plays strange tricks with
the nose as well as with the eyes. A little while
back a couple of men were buried in a N.S.W.
mine. The work of recovering the bodies was pain-
fully slow, and most of it was in an atmosphere in
which even one layer of clothes was a burden;
wherefore they expected to be aware of the bodies
some time before they saw them. So the other day,
when some clothing was reached, the atmosphere
became stifling—they could all swear to that. A
few minutes with the shovel, and back most of
them had to get for air. And then, as more of
the clothing was carefully exposed, they found
that it was only an old coat a workman had dis-
covered underground some months before. You
cannot believe what you hear, or smell : you
cannot even believe what you see.
The Tin Plate Co. of Pittsburg, Pennsyl-
vania, proposed to make a temporary reduction of
25 per cent, in employees’ wages, on the excuse
that it couldn’t otherwise secure the contract for
the Standard Oil Co.’s tins. Probably some of
the directors are in both companies. A tin-
makers’ strike was averted by an agreement to
boil the 25 per cent, down to “a general re-
duction of 3 per cent.” The employees should
ioon get back the plundered 3 per cent., whereas
if the bosses had succeeded in cutting wages down
only 10 percent., “temporarily,” not more than
5 per cent, would have been restored next year
with a flourish of capitalistic trumpets. The
financial meaning of “temporary ”is “ partly per-
manent.” Applied to a small loan it means
wholly permanent ” as a rule.
Piles and their Cure.— The pamphlet by
Albert Sharp, “ Piles and How to Cure Them,”
without operation, by the latest Cannalin treat-
ment, sent free on application to 257 George-st.,
Sydney, or F. Buckhurst, Chemist, Melbourne,
■>r W. Wastell, Chemist, Adelaide.*
Patents for Inventions.-- Arthur Griffith
tod Allen, International Patent Agents and Con-
noting Engineers, University Chambers, Phillip-
itreet, Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyright
mroughout the world.*
It ia impossible to over-estimate the comfort to
derived from a good razor. Such a razor as the
Abbot,” sold by Mammatts, is of the very best tern-
fered steel, and is bound to give satisfaction. Messrs,
ifammatt and Co. also stock all kinds of cutlery and
slate ware, which are much sought after as trophies and
presentations, for which they especially cater. Address :
Empire Chambers, 03 York-street, Sydney; also “The
Xlock.’lOollins-street, Melbourne.* /


J A CHAIN OF EVIDENCE
ON
ELECTRICITY and MEDICINE.
Mr. HOWARD FREEMAN,
DIRECTOR OP INSTITUTE.
A Professional Pianist Declares
Mr. J. H. Brown, late of Dix
Theatrical Companies, N.Z., suffered
from Brain-fag. He says :
“ I testify to the marvellous benefits ob-
tained from your Electro-Medical treatment.
I had consulted some leading practitioners in
Sydney with no good results. Anyone suffer-
ing from brain-fag, or general decline of the
nerve system, should consult you.
(Signed) J. H. BROWN.
A Famous Athlete says.
Mr. JACK MARSH, the
brilliant professional bowler and
cricketer, of whom so much
notoriety has recently arisen in
cricketing circles, declares :
“ Heavy strain, entailed by bowl-
ing in many matches, caused weak-
ness in my loins and legs, with rheu-
matic and sciatic tendencies. To
remedy it I tried your Electric
‘ INVIGORATOR,’ and was greatly
benefitted.
(Signed) JACK MARSH.'
NOTE.—The “INVIOORATOR” Is
specially beneficial in all cases of
Rheumatic or Sciatic affliction and
is an infallible remedy.
Great Pugilist Swears Thus.
The Champion Lightweight of AuS'
tralia, Mr. Gr. Johns, says of this
remarkable system :
“ I have worn one of yovir Electric ‘ In-
vigorators,’ and have found its effects most
beneficial to my nerve and muscular systems.
It has done me good in training and actual
contests. (Signed) G. JOHNS.”
Champion Lightweight of Australia.
A Great Athlete Testifies.
Mr. JOSEPH MEGSON, the CHAMPION
CYCLIST of NEW SOUTH WALES, gays
of his recovery :
“ I was on the point of a constitutional break-up more
than once. The merits of your ‘ Invigorator ’ used by me
are beyond question. J. MEGSON.”
Mr. MEGSON can be interviewed upon this
wonderful cure. What has been done for him
can be done for you.
The Twentieth Century Treatment.
THERE is a DEATH every time the CLOCK TICKS. Eighty per cent, of the world s
population DIE BEFORE
Their Average Life Period is Reached.
Disease kills the people, therefore Disease must be killed that the people may live. The
SPECIALISTS of THE FREEMAN AND WALLACE INSTITUTE establish certain per-
manent cures in INSOMNIA, KIDNEY TROUBLE, HEART EFFECT CHRONIC
INDIGESTION, DYSPEPSIA, EPILEPSY and RHEUMATICS by their System of
ELECTRICITY AND s MEDICINE.
Read the testimonies below on the new method. Stop and think what the wearing of an
Electric “INVIGORATOR,” combined with special treatment, may mean to you it you are HI.
The Specialists may be consulted Free of Charge.
In chronic disorders they have done more good than any association of medical men in
Australasia. Peruse the testimonies of the patients, appended below, and then act-in your
interest.
J.H.Brown
w.
W
MrJ.Marsh?
*
sS?
wm
%
■■■■
>*•
s®
SMB
«*2
What
DANI,
The great singer,
E»\ s :
SIGNOR CARLO DANI, the distinguished
operatic tenor of the Royal Italian Opera
Company, lafely in Sydney, says of the
Electric “ INVICORATOR " which he wore :
“I have much pleasure to inform you
that, owing to the great lassitude I have
experienced here, due no doubt to sudden
climatic changes, I have worn your Electric
1 Invigorators,’ from which I have obtained
great benefit to my muscular and nerve
systems.—Yours cordially,
CARLO DANI.**
(The original of
this Testimony
may be seen at the
\ Institute. J
V
DR. RICHARD WALLACE,
1LD..L.8.C.P., 8..L.F.P.5., b., 1.m., Physician-in-Chief
A Famous Rider Speaks.
The new “ TOD SLOAN ” Ameri-
can style of riding was introduced
into Australia by Mr. Edward H.
Ames, the famous American jockey.
He declares:
“ I wore one of your first-class Electric
• INVIGORATORS,’ and took a course of
your medicines. I regained my usual
nerve power,' by which I won two great
racing events in one day.
(Signed) EDWARD H. AMES.”
An Inter-State Pugilist
attests.
Mr. MAT MITCHIE says
of his big fight with Denny
Maloney :
Golden Gate Athletic Club,
Sydney.
“I wore your Electric ‘lnvigora-
tor’ during training for my fight
with Denny Maloney, and to its
strengthening effect I attribute much
of the vigor and staying power th it
enabled me to win the decision.
(Signed) MAT MITCHIE.-
Champion Amateur
Swimmer says.
Mr. Jack Helpings, Cham-
. pion Amateur Swimmer, asserts,
after a few months’ treatment at
the hands of the Specialists
“ I have been cured of rheumatism from
which I suffered for years, with continuous
sciatic attacks. Your treatment of Electro-
Medication has restored me to health.
The ‘ INVIGORATOR’ which I wore has
done me more good than I can ever ex-
press.” (Signed) JACK HELPINGS.”
The Prices of these wonderful curative “ IN-
VIGORATORS ” are as follow
Copper Plate, £1; Silver Plate, £1 10s.;
Solid Silver, £3; Solid Gold, £lO (2oz. 18c. Gold).
We hold Certificates of Efficacy unpossessed by
others. Two leading Sydney electricians assert they
are “ electrically perfect, and their currents are con-
tinuous as used for medical purposes.”
These “ INVIGORATORS ” are superior to any
“ Belt ” sold at £5 or £lO each.
The Specialists' Fees: Advice & Medicine, ONE POUND , ONLY. •’&&(£
■*==>^-»==^C ■ —»
All attestants may be interviewed. If you try this treatment the entire system benefits and becomes
as healthy and strong as Nature intended it to be. The “ INVIGORATOR,” correctly worn, infuses into
the system a stream of life-giving energy, the absence of which is the chief cause of many nerve diseases.
It is the finest MEDIUM IN THE WORLD to physical peace and domestic harmony. Send for special
brotfhfore of .testimonies, from eminent persons, posted free. They are unequalled and unquestionable.
550-Page Medical Work, « CLINICAL EXPERIENCES,”
ONE SHILLING, Post Free.
Over 1000 Notable Australian Journals eulogise this work, which expounds the application
of Electricity to the human frame. It is worth a pound a page and is a sound and genuine medical
adviser. It should be on every man’s bookshelf.
The FREEMAN and WALLACE ELECTRO-MEDICAL and SURGICAL INSTITUTE is
characterised by the Press as an Institute worthy of support.
loical
"!% i
Pgical
V&AN
T A E FREEMAN * WALLACE
ELECTRO-fVIEDICAI——bI
and SURGICAL INSTITUTE
ELIZABETH and BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director Electro-Medical Department. R'edicirtes packed Free* from Observation and sent to all parts of Australia.
Dr. RECHARD WALLACE, M.D., L.R.C.P., F., L.F.P.S., E., L.M.. P'nysician-in-Chiof. Letters treated with Frovessional Secrecy and promptly replied to.


Athlete’s Cough
“I must have contracted it while
Training for Athletic Meetings ”
Winter athletics cause many colds. In
the enthusiasms of football not much care
is taken of the health. Yet even while
training and competing it is easy to guard
against coughs and colds—here is the tip ■
“ Mona House, Isleworth,
“ Middlesex, England,
“ February Bth, 1901.
“ Hear Sirs,—For some time I have been
suffering from a severe cold and hacking
cough, which I think I must have contracted
while training to compete at athletic meet-
ings. One day a friend of mine said I ought
to try your Scott’s Emulsion as he knew it
PERCY GOURLAY.
(From a photograph.)
would do me good. I took his advice and
soon found I was deriving benefit from the
treatment. After taking Scott’s Emulsion
for three weeks I had entirely lost my cold
and no longer had any cough. I am now
feeling in splendid health, and give Scott’s
Emulsion all the credit for same.
“ Yours truly,
“ (Signed) Percy Gourlay.”
Every athlete knows that training makes
extra demands upon his strength—competi-
tion still greater demands. Football,
running, “ cross country” are all hard work
and must be met by extra effort. Coughs
and colds are not permissible if the athlete
is to keep in the pink of condition. Scott’s
Emulsion maintains for the athlete a per-
fect condition of health.
Mr. Gourlay got himself and kept himself
in condition by using Scott’s Emulsion.
Athletes should try it—preventive treat-
ment is better for them than curative
treatment. Scott’s Emulsion supplies
exactly what they need—pure cod-liver oil
with hypophosphites of lime and soda. The
cod-liver oil is treated by our process so that
all the virtue of it remains, while all the
disagreeable taste and smell are taken away.
Cod-liver oil is the finest strengthener
ever known: hypophosphites of lime and
soda the best tissue, muscle and bone
builders. There can be no question of the
value of these things to the athlete.
He should, however, remember that the
high value of these ingredients is obtained
only in Scott’s Emulsion—the scientific
blending of which is the result of thirty
years’ experience. Cheap imitations give
only cheap results. No substitutes possess
the unique value of cod-liver oil
To get the athletic value that Mr. Gourlay
obtained, take Scott’s Emulsion the
wrapper of every bottle has a picture of a
man carrying a big codfish. >
You can obtain a sample of Scott’s Emulsion
by sending fourpence to Scott & Bowne, Ltd.
483 Kent street, Sydney, and mentioning this
paper. All chemists sell Scott’s Emulsion.
IN' order to introduce our Gold Wire Jewellery
* to the Australian public we have decided to
offer one of the greatest bargains ever seen in the
jewellery trade — viz., the above handsome Brooch
(any name or three initials) made of extra quality
9ct. gold-filled wire, with heart pendant; guaran-
teed the same quality as the brooch advertised,
complete. Sent post-free on receipt of P. 0.0. or
M.O. for ss. in round wire or sq. twisted wire, 15cb,
gold, filled, Bs. 6d. Illustrated catalogues sent free.
SIMS and ELRICK, Manufacturing Jewellers.
Our only address —
COLE’S BOOK ARCADE, MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA
Hints about Panama Hats.
JT will interest our readers to know that Chas. Gilbert,,
the leading Gent.’s Outfitter, Queen-street, Brisbane,
has just returned from visiting the centres of manufacture
for these scarce lines, and can supply the genuine article,
in either Alpine or folding shape, at 18s. 6d., 225. 6d.,
255. to 455. (for cash with order) securely packed, and
carriage paid to any address in the Commonwealth. 30
per cent, better value than any in the Southern States.
General Electric
Incandescent Lamps.
D THE EDISON LAMP
Annual Sales, 18,000,000.
After Competitive Tests, 63,750
were purchased by the Melb.
City Council.
LONG LIFE. HIGH EFFICIENCY.
©
Large Stock always on hand.
AUSTRALIAN
©
mim ELECTRIC CO.
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS,
Melbourne and Sydney.
Motors, Dynamos, Steam Dynamo Sets, etc.,
also in Stock.
TheGANZ
Electric Apparatus
are built right.
Let us give you some
evidence of their
superiority.
Canz Direct Current Air-Propeller. SOLE AGENTS:
The lustra! Qtis Engineering Co., [td., South Relb.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
PLAYS
Catalogue
Free
French’s Acting Edition.
Rare Books
French Novels
Books the Married
Extra Special Catalogue of
Eoolcs Eree.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
2h.p. to lOOh.p.
KING. MARINE OIL ENGINES.
Launches built 20ft. to 80ft. overall.
sB*_
asn
- s Sp*»
Noiseless Uuderwater. .
Exhaust
Perfect Gas Generator.
Double Cylinder.
Automatic Oil Feed.
Simple Electric Ignition
with Dynamo.
WITH THE KING ENGINE-ONE LEVER CONTROLS THE WHOLE.
J. F. 3VE cDEJ R. 2VX OT T & OO M F -A. 3XT'ST#
—Telephonß 2671 37 MARKET STREET. W VmvrmY.
“OnOur Selection.” By “Steele liudd.” j
Business, Bobbery, etc.
A man whcr used to run a large drug and per-
fume business somewhere in Australia tells The Bulletin
this : “ You can produce ever so good a perfume, or toilet
soap, or essence, and unless you label it with a foreign
name it won’t sell. Brand it as from Germany, Italy,
France or England, and it goes all right. So the printing
of ‘ fake’ labels is quite an industry in Australia. Our
business was a flourishing one, and we had an excellent
man to mix up perfumes, patent-medicines, and so on.
But prosperity ruined him ; he took to drink, and
the sober moments when he could “compose**
were few and far between. Finally we had to
sack him, because I found him one day mixing up a
patent cough-mixture with almost pure chloroform;
there had been also some confusion in the tonic depart-
ment, a Jump-up Re-invigorator getting the proportion
of strychnine intended for a Rat-mixture; likewise the
curry-powder had been compounded of white-rose sachet
and ground ginger. Then the business got on my nerves.
I used to lie awake o’nights wondering whether the baking-
powder had been loaded with chalk or with white arsenic,
and thinking if how the pickles would affect the publicif
vitriol was put around them instead of vinegar, and cal-
culating the risks of the Pain-killer. Finally, after I had
nearly fainted one morning, on seeing a newspaper
hoarding announce 53 deaths from poisoning (it was in 1
Silesia, but I thought it was in Australia), I gave it lip
and sold out. A soldier’s life is not in it for excitement
with a wholesale patent-medicine show.”
* * * •
. “Mel.” writes : “ Have just had a funny inter-
view with a representative of a Yankee inquiry agency.
My caller was suave, polite and bland : ‘ Say, sir, I h’ve
been asked by a most important client of ours to call on
you and get your position. Maybe he wants to do busi-
ness with you. I don’t know, but, anyhow, I want a few
pertiklers. Say, how much do you reckon you’re wuth ? ’
I stammered out that my habits had been regular, at
least for the last three days ; that I only owed my
grocer for one month’s bacon and barracoutta, and that
I had had no new clothes since Clean Sweep beat my
choice for Melb. Cup ; also, didn’t think I was on my
tailor’s books. I assured him I was a regular churchgoer,
had only two bad vices—bridge and golf ; had no other
assets worth naming, except poor relations. Evidently my
visitor was not satisfied, for he said : ‘ See here, stranger,
our firm want to know jest how you stand financially, so
you’d better fill up this statement as a basis for credit,
showing your assets and liabilities, also your surplus.’
’ But,’ I stammered, ‘ I don’t want any credit. People
won’t trust me, so I pay cash. Besides, it’s much handier
when I’ve got it.’ He said, in the strenuous tone en-
joined upon all good Yanks by Theodore Roosevelt,
•Jestyou read parrygraph wan, sir.’ I did,and repro-
duce it as a fine piece of chilled steel front ‘ We respect-
fully desire to inform you that wo are called upon to
place the name of your house upon our records for the
use of subscribers to this Agency, who may desire to'
enter into business relations with you. In justice to all
concerned, but more particularly to yourself, it is neces-
sary for_ us to make a full and complete investigation,
and to aid us in this, and to give you an opportunity to
do full justice to yourself, we subjoin a form which, if
filled out, will contain the essential features required.’” ”
» * * *
At spasmodic intervals some idiot of the Dry
Dog fraternity arises to point out that there is a bound-
less market for the products of the “ natural industries of
this great country ” in China and Japan. Especially
China. By the natural industries is meant an export of
the meat and wool of the exotic sheep and bullcow.
Maoriland Govt, went to the trouble of investigating that
alleged boundless market, and found there was nothing
in it. The natives of Japan do not use our products,
and the foreign community is too small to create any
demand. Sheep are exported from Shanghai district to
all parts of the Mongolian Orient, and the best mutton,
of very good quality indeed, is retailed at 3d. per lb. Beef
of prime quality only brings 2Jd. Flour fetches £6 10s.,
but the Yankees and Canadians hold that market, andean
undersell the Australian every time. In fact, both China
and Japan are countries where the great bulk of the
population lives on the soil, and if this country wishes to
do any profitable trade with them it must be in manu-
factured goods. In the cold bracing climate of the
North, the Mongolian wears quilted cotton. If he could
be induced to wear woollens, and this country could
make up its own alleged golden fleece, there’d be money
in it. Australia’s only hope in the future is to become a
great manufacturing country. When her home market
is supplied, the Orient is nice and handy to take all the
surplus for the next century or so.
| * * * *
M. 0 .: Wonder if it ever strikes average
householders how much of what they intend to purchase
at the grocer’s they leave behind them weekly, especially
if they buy in small quantities, as, perforce, many must
these hard times ? Bought £ lb. biscuits, to-day, and got
them in a bag (which was weighed in, as usual) ten times
too large for my order. Out of curiosity weighed what I
couldn’t eat—the paper—and it balanced 2 1-5 oz. out of
the 8 oz. grocer’s weight! Tea, sugar, salt, &c., &c., are
generally weighed the same weigh, and no doubt the
grocer pays his rent out of his paper-bag profits, seeing
the heavier makes of bags are the cheapest.
| • * * *
1 “Rick”: That par. (B. 14/10/’O2) about the
building on wrong allotment, recalls the troubles of a
friend who had a piece of land upon which he raised a
loan, depositing title-deeds. Commenced erecting a
four-roomed house on the land, and, before completion,
the bill fell due. Explained that he was unable to meet
the bill, and the money-lender told him that it would be
all right, and to go on with the house. But, when the
cottage was completed, the usurer foreclosed, and gave
Jills (my friend) a week’s notice to vacate. Acting on
legal advice, my friend took no notice, and, at the end of
the week, a prospective tenant with a van-load of furni-
ture arrived, but left again to have a few words with the
agent. His legal adviser told him what he would do, and
Jills acted on the hint. On the following Sunday morning,
at 2 a.m., the house was lifted bodily on to a jinker by a
push of 40 hands strong, carted to a neighboring suburb,
and placed on a vacant piece of land on a building lease.
Then 40 amateur painters so bedaubed it that, on the fol-
lowing Monday, it was quite unidentifiable. Same morn
ing, in another suburb, an unfortunate policeman, armed
with a writ of ejectment, had a diligent search for a house
the door of which he had authority to put his foot
through.
I * * * •
I What “on demand ” means was discussed from
the Adelaide bench in a recent evil-smelling money-
lending case. “ The demand,” it was decided, “ must be
reasonable. An opportunity to inquire into a case where
there was reasonable doubt must be given to allow the
doubt to be cleared up. Five minutes, an hour, or even
a day might be warranted in some special circumstances.
The proffered demand might be a forged imitation of the
original; obviously, the person must be given a reason-
able time to satisfy himself that it isn’t.”
• • • *
“Ex-Telegraph Operator” to The Bulletin
from London : Re wholesale thieving of telegram forms
“down under ” {vide 8., 16/8/’O2). This has gone on for
20 years to my knowledge. Knew a registry office that
used to write its “ wanteds ” on back of Victorian forms
and paste on the street window. It was in Elizabeth-st.
(Melb.), and if still there, doubtless the forms are, too.
The G.P.O. here prevents that by using a form half the
size of the Vic. ones and printing eight rules to senders
on the back, leaving only blank edgings ; also the English
idea of charging for addresses and signature—l 2 words,
6d. ; £d. every additional—keeps down longwindedness.
* * * »
All over Maoriland there are swamps where the
oil oozes out in quantities, but, as with the ironsands of
Taranaki, there seems to be no way of turning the stuff
to account. No one has ever known a M. L. oil-swamp
catch fire, and its presence is generally greeted with
curses. It has been left to a Canadian firm to make a
serious start at the business, and a plant has been sent
to Kotuku, on the West Coast of the Middle Island. If
Maoriland can turn her oil and ironsand deposits to ac-
count, it will mean a big boom.
* * # V
Stated at a recent meeting of Vic. Legal
Managers’ Association that a legal manager who was
auditor of a company found that his co-auditor was a
clerk, aged 16, and a son of the managing director ; also
that in another instance a lad was employed to write up
the books of a co., and then appointed to audit his own
work 1


A Maoriland correspondent :
Of late years there has been a remarkable recrudescence
of parochial factionism in this State. Every day one
reads in the papers about “ a meeting of the Yorkshire
Society,” the “ Cornish Society’s social,” or “ a social and
dance under the auspices of the Lancashire Society,’
not to mention Hibernian Societies, Highland Clubs,
Orange Lodges, etc. The latest development is an Ulster
Society. Isn’t it about time we really began to be a
people—one people, that is—not a chaotic gathering of
strangers, split up into petty clubs and lodges, each howl-
ing over the traditions of some b jgy spot about the size
of a peanut, 16,000 miles away ■
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300 pages;
price, 4s. 6d.; postage, 6a.
William Allan, M.P. (Eng.), on the British
navy, to which Australia is expected to contribute,
in full reliance for protection :
A phantom fleet with a skeleton crew. It was 14,000
firemen short, 2000 engine-room artificers short, and over
900 engineers short. If the Admiralty would build, arm
and man the ships as it ought to do, it could be done for
half the money that was now being expended. The
Admiralty was a gigantic muddle, and the system, wh c i
was the old, traditional, conservative system, needed to
be changed.
ronchitis Core.
THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA
Those who have total this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
experience fc ful and immediate and to those to it Complete Cure.
S£ U without it, ». *i«, a *. . do» £ sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain. BEWARE OT?* COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
too ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CUBE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—l am writing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine lias effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for i
which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir. —I suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
lias not had a return of it since. It is a splendid inedi-
eii.e for bronohitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Viotoria,
Three Cases Completely Cured hy One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“Llenwellyn,
“ Katunga, Vio.
" Mr. Hearne.—
“ Dear Sir,—l am very piuch pleased with the effects
oi your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to my mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“ JOHN S. MORTIMER.”
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND la QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I bad not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus—as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I alwa.ys walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my sou
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“ Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.
Extract from a letter, since written l>y the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Lk...vellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows :—“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I vyas
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night's rest, and was spitting up blood
verv much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday' I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“ Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicineshaving been tried;
but I ain happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Five Years’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. —Dear Sir, —Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be withou
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Years’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“Dear Sir,—Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recover}'.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well. —Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney "
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS' CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes “After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to tryHearne’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883— 15 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.”
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states;—“l
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
I return of the Asthma.”
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist,. Geelong, Victoria.
.ranch depot office . No First F i o or, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
The SMELTING & REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
n /x. TP*T*r>, Xialte Illawarra <36 MILES FROM SYDNEY)
1901, Linxitea.
WORKS:
SMELTERS
AND
REFINERS
LEAD
BULLION
Assay Offices, General Offices, Store and Sulphuric Chamber.
makers of
S. Co, of Australia
AND
1 zxiLAWAr.ua
BRANDS OP
SOFT LEAD.
Highest Price paid for GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, and JEWELLERS’ SWEEP, &c.
For all information regarding Rates, apply to HEAD OFFICE, DAPTO.
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay.
W. L. HOYT, Manager.
jV. E. Undcler & Co., 40 Pitt Street, Sydney, Forwarding Agents.
“ Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical Record.
“ ‘ Bengep*s Food ’
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medical Record.
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
For Infants, Invalids, and the Aged . Delicious, Nutritive , and Digestible.
Benger’s Food is sold by Chemists, &c., Everywhere?
Extracts from Private
Letters.
“My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult
t > find. My wife sounds
the praise of ‘ Benger’s
Food’ everywhere.”
“If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.


R b.g Jewellery store was never so superior, never so splendid.
here !i” ! Smm EnB:,and ’ Araerica and tha Continent Is
favourably priced tor yon. So quickly come and go the new
things that we could not enumerate them, but come in and see for
yourself what we have. We never press anyone to N w wm 11
show yon the latest even If yon come only out c „ y ri „ slty . our H
Catalogue Is free to all. * w
No. E44s9—The “Cupid ” Card Case,
Solid Silver, Lad3 r ’s Size, £2 10s.
Silver-Plated on Nickel Silver
Base, Tankard, £-pt., 12s: 1 pt.,
15s.
No. F6127—A1 Quality Silver-Plated
Toast liack, £1 15s.
No. F9ss4—Heavy 9ct Gold Twist Bracelet, £2 10s.
No. E 3082 9ct Gold Bracelet, set Pearls and Sapphire
Doublets, £2 2s.
Cl
No. F9557—9ct Gold and Real Peari
Bracelet, £2.
No. F9569—9ct Gold and Real Pearl
Bracelet, £1 7s. 6d.
9ct Gold & Tortoiseshell
Hairpin or Ornament.
£1 7s 6d.
No. F2lsB—Solid Silver Prize Bowl,
£8 10s.—8£in. x s£in.
No. F9s72—Strong- 9et Gold Twist Tube
Brooch, JEI 10s.
m
mm
No. I 2478- ilyer Plated Butter Knife and Jam
opoon, in a Case, 14s. 6d.
No. F 558 —A 1 Quality
Silver Plated Butter Dish,
£1 12s. 6d.
No. F999l—Silver Plated Satin Lined
Jewel Case, £1 ss.
No 163-18 ct Gold
Diamond and Ruby Ring,
£3 10s.
No. F64B3—Solid Silver
Pepper Pot, 18s. 6d.
No. E 7849— Silver - Plated
Egg Boiler, £1 7s, 6d.
No FI 342—Out Glass and
Silver Plato'’ r 'laret Jug,
‘ £1 Is.
==sfc
1
=s:
■
No. F47lo—Silver Plated Knife, Fork and Spoon,
in a Case, 14s. 6d.
KteiVatitZßawson 8
KUTNOW’S POWDER.
A Perfect Remedy for Constipation, Derangements of the
Stomach, Liver, and Kidneys, Influenza, Rheumatism,
Gout, Lumbago, and Uric Acid Troubles.
Read what “The Medical Journal” published last December concerning KUTNOW’S POWDER.
o A i, L^ mic ?*\ ur * c storms manifest themselves very disagreeably in severe nose and throat affections
nd colds m the winter seasons. Most of these troubles can be traced to disorders of digestion, assimilation
secretion, excretion, and elimination. ’
If our food be properly digested, and the adipose matter promptly eliminated, there would be bv far
fewer cases of colds and coughs. J
1 ver ’ an( t i n fact all organs of the abdominal cavity have to be kept in good working
order like the mechanism of a good clock, therefore the main object of the phvsician is to keep the inner organs
tree from all toxicants produced by faulty metabolism. b
Nothing is so highly recommended for that purpose and unanimously endorsed and prescribed bv the
medical authorities of the present age as KUTNOW’s POWDER, of which the late Sir Morell Mackenzie, in his
decisive and positive mode of expressing his opinions, wrote : ‘I have tried it, and find that it answers particularly
“ And Dr. Ewald, the great stomach specialist, said : ‘ Its advantages appear to arise from its possessing
the power to eliminate from the body the excess of bile and acids, thereby purifying the blood and strengthening
me general tone by improving the assimilative processes of the debilitated system.’ ”
k uthows
POWDER
Can be obtained in capsuled bottles,
of all Chemists and Medicine Ven-
.T )rs ; See that- the Registered
-Trade Mark “ Hirschensprung ” (or
Deer Leap), and the autograph fac-
simile signature. “S. KUTNOW
and Co. (Ld.).” are on the label
and carton. ONLY THESE EN-
STJRE GENUINENESS. IN-
SIST ON “KUTNOW’S,” AND
FIRMLY REFUSE ANY SUB-
STITUTES; THEY ARE
WORTHLESS AND OFTEN
INJURIOUS.
The British Royal Family uses it.
His Majesty’s Household uses it.
His Majesty’s Judges use it.
His Majesty’s Ministers use it.
Members of the House of Lords
use it.
Members of the House of Commons
use it.
His Majesty’s Army and Navy
use it.
His Majesty’s Diplomatic and Con-
sular Corps use it.
Members of the Civil Service
use it.
Members of the Universities of
Oxford and Cambridge use it.
KUTNOW’S
POWDER
Is used in all the principal
Hospitals
Throughout
The World.
and has received the highest com-
mendation from Sir Morell Mac-
kenzie, M.D., Sir Spencer Wells,
M.D., Sir Andrew Clark, M.D.,
Professor Lawson Tait, M.D., and
many other eminent specialists.
Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & CO., LTD., 41 FARRINCDON RD., LONDON, E.C.
Proprietors in U.S.A.: Kutnow Bros., 853 Broadway, New York.


mi
7
(JcleKs
S'Ej
The
CQfi
a
PD
CORSETS
The Recognised Standard
High-Glass Corsets
LATEST SPECIALTY
STRAIGHT FRONT
NOUVELLE FORM
Obtainable from Leading
Drapers Everywhere.
Avoid Inferior Imitations, and see that
each pair bears the Manufacturer’s ‘ ‘ Trade
Mark ” on band inside, as above.
6,000
IN USE
TODAY
The
Oldsmobile
LOWEST
PRICE
OF ALL
A practical runabout for business or pleasure and sold for less money than
any automobile in the world.
It will run over any passable road ; climbs steep hills; is almost noiseless;
attains a speed of 25 miles an hour; will run 30 miles on one gallon of
gasoline ; starts with ease from the seat' and is always ready for instant use ;
is accident proof ; has no tire ; no boiler to burn out.
Construction is so simple it cannot get out of order and requires no
experience to run it. There’s nothing to watch but the road ahead.
Can be shipped to this country at small expense, quick delivery.
The Oldsmobile is sold in America or $650 (^130).
Write for free handsome illustrated book. We will quote you a price
delivered at your nearest port.
Agents Wanted in Unoccupied Foreign Territory.
Olds Motor Works,
Detroit, Michigan, UmSmAm
Maoriland Towns.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Towns in the Land of the Kiwi are just what towns
ought to be: The traveller is compelled to admire
those self-respecting, sterling conglomerations of
wooden dwellings which go to make up a town in
Maoriland. Your first impression of these places
is the dread of fire, and the prevalence of fire.
Tou are in the place no time before the fire-bell
arouses you at night, and if you get up you will
find the town in half-dressed ferment, all to see
the blaze. Bells are (a. .-ibuted in various spots
about, and you read that one toll means a fire
in one end, and two tolls a fire in another, and
so on ; consequently, when the Maorilander is
awakened in the night by the fire-alarm, he or she
rushes off, buttoning up his or her garments like
the North American pioneer, who would
carry his old flint gun to bed with him.
No one is too old, or too young, and rarely
is anyone too sick to get up. They have
shamed me many a time, on occasions when 'I
had to say that I must have been asleep. I got
up twice. Once was because the hotel I was
staying in was on fire, and the second time was
when a saw mill made such a blaze that I thought
the whole town was being burned down.
* * * *
The people have great cause to be afraid of fires.
Some day, there is going to be a blaze among these
clustered wooden domiciles which will make the.
Whole world stare. They have been so afraid of
earthquakes that it is only now that they begin to
build of brick or stone, and they are but half-
doing it at that, for the outside walls alone are of
the incombustible stuff ; so, when a fire does start,
the inmates are in a death-trap. The Grand Hotel
fire, in Auckland, is an example. There is a grow-
ing desire in M.L. to legislate against fire-insurance
companies, and make it criminal for a man to
insure his property. So many people are convicted
of incendiarism that it is supposed that nearly
all the tires are caused by the insurances on the
property. In one third-rate town I was awakened
three times in the night by the fire-bell. When I
got down to breakfast, next morning, I said,
“ Yes, abolish fire-insurance; by all means; and
then we’ll get some sleep.” .
i The Maoriland town is invariably built under a
hill, which seems to lean over to have a look at it.
Usually these hills are so steep that they can’t be
built on, but in parts you will find that energetic
i people have got up with their houses as high as
they can. Sometimes they -get up home after
work by climbing wooden steps. Then they
spread out so much that the town council is nearly
always on the verge of bankruptcy trying to make
footpaths and roads for the inhabitants.
But there is always the good old Maorilander to'"
live in them, the same simple, manly fellow, full
of energy and sociability ; the same honest,
clannish, breezy man who thinks his little town'
the pivot of the World When people wanted me
to impress this fellow favorably in the way of can-
vassing, they told me what town he came from,
so that I could tell him it is the finest, prettiest,
and most go-ahead town I’d ever seen on earth.
And when you get people like that to live in a
town—why, that town is going to be a good pro-
portion of what that sort of man believes it is. I
wish we Australians had the same spirit towards
our homes; Australia would then be a much
better place to live in.
The first M.L. town I struck was, of course, the
Wind Factory, where the Wind God lives. I did
not see this supernatural being with the lungs, or
bellows, but I have been through Wellington at
least half-a-dozen times and felt him all the time.
He used to clutch my whiskers and pluck them,
and make the deck-chairs walk along. He used
to howl, and rage, and whistle, and try to tear my
clothes off or blow me overboard. Once he blew
a train over a bank, and when I climbed up the
Flagstaff Hill, on a calm day, I lay down and held
on to the grass. My word, but if I wor t over the
side I was afraid that I would not fall, but go up;
and when I got down into sheik,; I instinc-
tively put up my hand to feel if my hair still
on.
Wellington is the home of wooden houses, -flt.h
red roofs and narrow streets. It reminded mb m
a centipede ; it is so cramped-in with those in-
secure-looking hills, which look down at such an
angle you think they must some, day topple over.
There are gullies stretching in among the hills,
and the constricted city has grown among them
till they look like the legs of that one-hundred-
insect. Then there are tram-cars drawn by three
horses abreast. The four wheels are set very
close together, so when/the horses pull, the ends
go up and down enough to make you seasick.
When I got on I asked the conductor if there was
any extra charge for the see-saw. He said “ No;
threepence, please.”
Wellington has nothing to recommend it but the
fact that its central position made it the capital.
It will always be the capital, but when it grows as
big as those hills will permit, it won’t grow any
more unless the hills fall, or they put up hydraulic
lifts, which is not improbable.
Christchurch is the Melbourne of Maoriland.
It is as dreary in situation and as depressingly
square—a sort of municipal sum. It is as much
like a draught-board as anything I know of, even
to the flatness thereof. I don’t know what would
have become of Christchurch ; only God was kind
to the town, and He gave it the prettiest
stream of water in all the world, which flows right
through the city. The Christchurch people are
very proud of this, and they have beautified it
till they have made Christchurch blessed. You
go by tunnel through a range of hills as picturesque
as the teeth of a cross-cut saw, and get into the
town prepared to hate it, but you go down to the
Avon and you forgive the city for first impres-
sions. The swift water brushes green grass and
the drooping leaves of weeping willow and toi-
toi; and there are seats and lawns and flower-
beds and rustic-looking bridges here and there.
The youth invites the beauty, and they hire a
skiff and they pull up and down the narrow
channel on Sundays, and when they meet a
second youth with his beauty going another way
the boats lock and everybody aboard and ashore
grows hilarious.
Christchurch has the best museum in Maori-
land, and the worst Botanical Garden, but con-
sidering that it was made on shingle, the Christ-
church man takes credit that it is as good as it is.
The suburbs are very pretty. You look down a
street and see nothing but foliage, chimneys, and
an odd gable, and macrocarpa hedges cut square
like a brick wall, with arches over the gates where
they tied the tops of the pines together. When
these hedges are being trimmed the scent is just
like a woman’s ball-dress, or the faded love-letters
of an old maid.
You also become impressed with the bike in
Ch-Ch. (Ch-Ch is not a sneeze; it is short for
Christchurch.) Everybody rides the bike, and
you even see- the housewife carrying home the
meat and groceries on a Saturday afternoon, the
parcels and cabbage hanging to the handle-bars.
You also see Mr. Henpeck with a go-cart without
wheels strapped in front, on which he takes the
babv for its Sunday morning fresh air. Business
men send the messenger boy along with the
parcels to be delivered.
- Leaving Ch-Ch 1 went to Ashburton, then to
Timaru and Oamaru. These two last towns are
about 60'miles apart, and so unlike that you would
never think of classing them together, but the
names are so euphonious. Timaru is the busy place
where smart men come from, but Oamaru went
to sleep decades' ago and hasn’t wakened up yet.
But I went to Oamaru prepared to like it, because
a fellow I know in Westralia confided to me a
love experience which happened there. So I went
to that town on the look-out, so to speak, and I
find that the word Oamaru put before the word girl
is a synonym of all that is nice. The houses are
not all wood there; you get solid stone houses,
and there is an old wind-mill perched above it
which makes you think of an''old English village.
But talking about girls, Oamaru damsels are a
sort of warning of what you are going to get in
Dunedin. The Dunedin girls are the best-looking
girls, on an average, in Maoriland. Some fellows
like Nelson girls, but there has been a strangely-
hurtgry look about the eyes of the Nelson girl ever
since the war broke out and the boys left.
When I was leaving Christchurch to go to
Dunedin a man told me that Dunedin is all right
if your name is Fraser. But I’m not talking
about people, and no matter whether you’re an
Englishman, Irishman, Scotchman or Australian,
Dunedin is always Dunedin, a most likable town.
It has no Avon flowing through its streets, but it
has very pretty faces, beautiful Botanical Gardens,
and it has St. Clair.
St. Clair is a beach and a precipitous hill. It is
a soft, hummocky beach where spectators can have
fun. People walk along and the breakers take them
unexpectedly in places.
The kelp lies on this beach in enormous ten-
drils, and the penguin is often washed on to it.
When you climb up the hill and look down, you
see small drenched rocks, partly submerged by
the waves, and about them you see these kelp
tendrils waving like a giant’s hair, and far out you
see a black-and-white island, where the penguins
live. Then in Dunedin you have so many winding
gullies with natural bush to go for walks along;
gullies where white foaming streams boil down
among smooth boulders. The hills about Dunedin
are not as steep as the hills of Wellington, and
people have built on them, and the men toil up
home every evening after their day’s work, as
only a Maorilander and a monkey could do.
The meaty Maorilander may be soft, but Provi-
dence has recompensed him with plenty stamina
and sound lungs. “Do the people up above ever
throw their slops into your yard?” I asked a
woman on the low ground. She said “No.” Then I
wanted to know if ever one house tumbled down on
another, or if she wasn't afraid of the whole hill-
side coming down, or, anyhow, of someone lean-
ing too far out and falling on to her lightning
conductor and getting spiked, or something
dreadful like that. But no ! that woman didn’t
seem to be afraid of anything.
You get little bits of interest south of Dunedin.
There is a Chinese hotel-keeper in Lawrence, the
town of the dredges, and you see as many drunks
in the streets of Prohibition Balclutha, as in any
other town of its size. You also go to Inver-
cargill with the expectation that it must be an
interesting sort of place, being the nearest town
to the South Pole in the world —at least the
natives have some such idea, though Punta
Arenas beats it by three degrees. You have to
go down to the Bluff to get the interest. The
Bluff is a Maori-tanned hamlet where you can see
more oysters under the wharves than blue metal
in a road job. But if somebody stole Lake
Wakatipu, Mount Cook, The Sounds, and Buffer
and Otira Gorges from the Middle Island, it
would be the most dreary place to travel in the
Southern Hemisphere.
I liked the West Coast, and I’d like it better if
I were waterproof. Greymouth is a town on the
mouth of a river where a wreck lies to show the
uncertainty of the entrance. The river flows be-
tween two hills which make a sort of refrigerator
for the north wind so that it will freeze ten miles
out at sea. Hokitika is led up to by a
line as pretty as our Illawarra line. The
sea washes in to the back-yards of the
- street, and the river carries down the
wood, and the sea dumps it down at the man’s
back gate. Hokitika is the cheapest town for
firewood I’ve ever seen. The man whose back
gate isn’t conveniently situated takes his wife and
maid-servant, his horses and dray, and the whole
family on to the beach, and they get as many logs
and as much light-wood as they care to carry
away.
Then there is a trip back to Reefton, a mining
town hung over with mountains, and from that
you travel down the Buffer Gorge to Westport,
the coal city. The Buffer Gorge is the best
scenery I’ve seen in Maoriland. As for West-
port, ask the Westport man what saved the
Calliope. The Britisher says it was British pluck,
but the Westport man says it was Westport coal.
A town fuff of public-houses.
And then comes Nelson, where careful people
go to die slowly. Nelson lies beneath the usual
Maoriland hill, those hills which seem to have got
their muscles up for some great effort and kept
them petrified at that. The town rests by a bay
within a bay, a pocket at the bottom of a cup.
There is a natural boulder bank stretching from
the land to a point leaving a narrow entrance.
This bay is quickly filling up, but enough water
rushes through the entrance to make the strongest
flood I’ve ever seen. You see it struggling in
with a foot, or two feet, higher level on the bar.
The enterprising youth has left Nelson. You
find the Nelson man anywhere but in Nelson.
He has left his women there, and as you walk
along the esplanade in the evening the girls who
sit on the seats cough at you. I can’t think why
fellows have gone and left so many nice girls to
hunger for love. Maybe the town was too clean
for them. It is the cleanest town in existence,
bar that Dutch city where people have to
take their boots off for fear of soiling the
pavement, or be fined by the burgomaster.
I don’t know what Nelson is good for, though.
But probably those people with means who live
there for the sake of their health think differently.
The best towns for business you get between
Wellington and New Plymouth in the North
Island. They are all good towns where the man
with a little means may invest in a safe business,
and Wanganui is the best of them all. It is the
Timaru of the North Island, as Timaru is the
Wanganui of the South. But New Plymouth is
my favorite M.L. town. It is not so much
beoause the town is much as a town. In the first
place, Mount Egmont is in the background, and
in the second, the town is spotted with the
quaintest and prettiest bits of scenery I’ve ever
come across. There are lots of brooks running
through willows and tree-ferns, and plenty of frail
bridges to cross, a recreation-ground that is
prettier than anything I have ever seen, and a
cemetery fuff of dead incidents and clothed with
natural Maoriland bush, a graveyard so lovely
that the adolescent youth goes there to adolesce;
and when you are reading how Sergeant So-and-
bo tell before such-and-such a pah, you hear the
smack of luxurious lips in a. thick gully under-
neath. If you would go picnicking, there are the
beaches, and also the waterwdrks where you may
Pj'W Jolly Miller” beneath the town trees by
the creek.
Napier reminds me of a winged sphere, the
sphere being where the private houses are, and
one wing where the main business is done. The
finest esplanade in Australasia runs along this
wing. The other wing stretches along the beach
on the other side. Napier is nearly as clean as
Nelson. Like Wanganui and Timaru it is a go-
ahead town, handicapped for the want of a har-
bor. Gisborne is some hours distant from Napier
by steamer, and is historical through Te Kooti.
It was here Te Kooti landed when he escaped
from the Chatham Islands and writ his “Poverty
Bay Massacre” in blood.
a j ■ .1 1 , , , , .
But Auckland is the most favored town m all
and°is bWod with ™ ost beautiful,
and I believe that they are right. But a woman
does not need to be only beautiful. She needs
accomplishments and usefulness, and that is where
Sydney Harbor is ahead of it. Those volcanic
humps which dot the place are Auckland’s charm,
I can imagine that Auckland was once level as
a billiard-table. Then an earth-boil broke out,
and, having discharged its contents, left its hump,
The impurities of the geological system break out
again and again, and hump after hump is raised
till at last the corruption is spent in Mount Eden,
whose bare crater shows how recent was the out-
break. I went down that geological cup, and
„A n „ t ~ j 1 v ~ -r i i .
1 I stood on the bottom I felt I dared not
stamp lest it would fall through. Who knows?
Many old Maoris would not go to Rotorua to
receive the Duke of Cornwall because they said
when the haka was danced the crust would break,
and Auckland has been through what Rotorua is
going through now.
People in Auckland who work in gardens want
a W ,ia he - re Peblfrom - /hey are
always cleaning the soil of little round pebbles,
but the soil is never free of them. They say that
some internal action of the earth is for ever forcing
them upward into the loose soil.
a 11 j • .1 cs j . , , ,
Auckland is the Sydney of Maoriland. Here,
of all M.L. towns, you see most style and most
poverty, most beauty and most ugliness, most
gaiety and most misery, the best buildings and
the dirtiest streets, people in a hurry and people
•. 1 j j- i v , i
who loaf, drunken sailors and dissolute characters
-~anci yet such a beautiful place, after all ! bo
like Sydney. Auckland is jealous of Wellington,
She can’t forgive the City of the Straits for being
thecapital. But Auckland willalwaysbetheleading
town of Maoriland, unless Hell’s humors break out
afresh and alter the geography of the North
Island. 1
From Auckland, you may go up to the kauri
forests and down to. see the thermal wonders
about Rotorua. You may take the waters of Te
Aroha internally and externally, or you may go
down to Waihi, the most substantia! mining town
in Maoriland, and descend the miner and over-
look the crushing - plants at Karangaliaki and
Waikino on the way, and you will get marvel-
lously pretty bits of gorge scenery on fine road,
Yes, Auckland is the red-haired M.L.
cities. After all, it is the be c t.
ROBERT BROTHERS.
Bruce Smith, casting his mind over
the horizon of the universe of thought at a
Sydney meeting, gave as his chief objection to the
Immigration Restriction Bill—
If every country in the world were to pass such a
measure, and administer it as it was being- administered,
the whole shipping interests of Christendom would lie
brought to a standstill.
Mr. Smith always looks at politics through the
windows of his old shipping office.
Melb. sharebroker A. W. Clarke, just back
from S’Africa, says the country is in a state of
chaos. The railways are disorganised, and the mili-
tary are still using the lines to wind up the affairs
of the army, all available rolling-stock being em-
ployed for their purposes. At the Cape, the labor
question is critical. Even the blacks are striking,
owing to the reduction of their wages. They get
3s. 6d. a day. A white man, with 10s. a day, can
hardly keep body and sonl together.
As for farming, I was told by the chief Government ex-
pert in S’Africa that people who go there with up-to-date
ideas and scientific methods would, in a couple of years,
be ruined If anyone wants to farm in S’Afriea, he will
have to adopt the Boer methods, and gradually improve
on them.
Here, out of the mouth of the official hierarchy,
that was to improve him off the face of the earth,
is a justification of the “stupid, ignorant Boer.”
His, it is now alleged, are the only methods suited
to S’Africa. Was it worth while to spend all that
money and all those lives for no better result ?
Ro brain-work and athletics. F. Marion
Crawford wrote to the compiler of “The Art of
Authorship ” :
A literary man should take exercise, but no more tha’i
is necessary for health. It is vastly better for the .brain
to rest too little than to practise athletics too much.
Hard rowing, excessive walking and running exhaust the
brain as much as the body. I speak with knowledge, for
I have done more physical work than most men in up-
time, and Ido not believe it ever did me any good. All
this sounds very small, and yet it has a great import-
ance. Athletics have been overdone in our day, arid
moderation in all things is disagreeable, and sounds tame
to strong men. A man would, perhaps, prod ng bis life by
living like a ploughman, but he would not develop his
intelligence.
After all, it’s a matter of temperament.


SUMMER FAG.
%f K W x
IP
# *
igl
<K«
STRANGE how many
■ people feel lazy in
Summer. “Too lazy
to move, almost, ”
is a common expression at
this time of the year; and
yet these men and women
are not of laz y dispositions.
They are lively enough in
the Winter. What is the
matter, then ? Why, they
are victims of “ that tired
feeling,” which is brought
on by the hot weather
weakening the system. The enervating
effects of the hot, “muggy” Australian
Summer are too well known to need
describing here ; sufficient to say that the
•violent heat of Summer debilitates and
weakens the human system entirely if it is not in the
most perfect order. Thus it is that people “feel ready
to drop ” at all hours of the day without the slightest
apparent cause. To avoid this lassitude, one thing is
necessary—the whole system, and especially the digestive
organism, must be in regular and perfect working order.
For this purpose there is no preparation so effective as
BILE BEANS FOR BILIOUSNESS. Acting in a
gentle manner, they do not (as many other purgatives
do) achieve a temporary abatement of the trouble, but eventually leave the system
weaker than ever. On the contrary, they strengthen and build up the whole digestive
organism, purify the blood, and tone up the nervous system. They have already proved
themselves the best medicine for all summer ailments, and are admitted to be the fore-
most remedy in Australia.
summeu bleeplessktebs.
In the Summer months many people who ordinarily enjoy sound sleep, find them-
selves troubled by restlessness and total inability to get that sound sleep which is at the
same time so refreshing and so necessary to all workers. The reason for this is generally
to be found in the condition of the digestive organs. The trying heat of Summer has
frequently a detrimental effect upon the digestive system, often throwing it altogether
out of order; and one of the commonest symptoms of this State is Summer sleeplessness.
BILE BEANS correct the digestive system, and by so doing remove all the evil effects
arising from ibi disorder.
—
By purifying the Blood, and stimulating the Liver, Stomach and Digestive Organs to proper
action BILE BEANS are an undoubted specific for Biliousness, Indigestion, Dyspepsia, Consti-
pation, Piles, Bad Blood, Pimples, and all Skin Eruptions, Bad Breath, Anaemia, Headache,
Female Weaknesses, Debility, Nervousness, Insomnia, Summer Fag, and in fact all Liver and
Digestive Ailments. BILE BEANS are obtainable from all Chemis s and Store! e:pers, price
11' or 2/9 large box (contains three time small size), or direct from tte ustralian Depot,
tile Bean Manuf aoturlng Co., 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
A
m
x
v"' ’k * I.'
i
1
Hi
i
a
>
/
'* S **N
and so does
PEARS
Payune.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This was the day. Payune sate
Drowsed in the dreai of Soon-to-be;
Each crested wave that chased its mate
Across the playground of the sea,
Laughed with the joyaunce of the day
That thrilled the heart of Payur.A
Afar, the rose-mouthed coral reefs,
Their glistening teeth in laughter bared ;
Anon, embraced by foam-crowned chiefs,
Busied in love no rival shared,
Jewelled with gems from each sun-ray,
Pure as the heart of Payune.
Fervid the silken south breeze sighs,
O’er stately palm, and shell-strewn shore,
Wooing within Payune’s eyes
The tiny miniatures they bore.
Oh, flashing wings of Love’s fair day,
Bear ye glad word for Payune ?
Hour melted into hour, till eve
Began to deck her tawny hair;
As one reluctant still to leave
The dream of life, surpassing fair.
Wistful she marked the shadows grey,
Steadfast to sea gazed Payune.
“ Beloved ! Lo, the shadows fall
Athwart the smooth sands, lengthening fast;
This was the day—the day of all—
When thou should’st come to me at last.
I gaze across the wide seaway ;
Hast thou forgotten Payune? ”
Against the gold horizon line,
Sharply arose a tiny speck.
Payune stood, and joy di vine
Crimsoned her cheeks and flushed h v ■ neck.
Deep in her eyes the love-lights say,
“ Beloved, ’tis I—I —Payune !”
Swiftly the Saman speeds to meet
Love’s beacon on the fragrant shore ;
Swiftly the night, with flying feet,
Rushed to enshroud the form it boro.
E’en as he said, he comes to-day;
Prepare to greet him, Payune.
Into the moonlit surf she rushed.
“ Beloved ! Lo, I wait for thee ! ”
The keel upon elm soft shells crushed.
(This morn she dreamed of Soon-to-be !)
Silent he lies —the moon’s pale ray
Kisses his corpse. Ah, Payune !
Clean through his throat, and out a span
The spear-shaft stuck. Payune gazed.
A freezing thrill throughout her ran.
Her eyes, like his, grew set and glazed,
From brow to breast an ashen grey,
Spread like a pall o’er Payune.
Madly she tore the spear-shaft forth,
And cast it far into the sea.
“ O breakers ! Ye I’ve loved since birth,
Do right with that ’twixt him and me.
Rest not until ye come to say,
‘ We have avenged thee, Payund !’”
The breakers clasped the shameful spear,
And bore it far from corpse and strand.
Three moons had waned ; a greyish fear
Darkened the sky, and shook the land.
The breakers roared like fiends at play,
And hoarsely called for Payune !
She came. Beyond their ridging foam,
Atavi’s boat sailed for the land ;
He came to claim her for his home;
He knew what corpse had reached that strand.
She watched him steer into the spray;
What said the heart of Payune ?
The first great line of breakers o’er,
His boat dipped in the livid trough,
And, as it rose, the breakers’ roar
Bade him good speed, as if in scoff.
He turned him to their awful play,
And cried, “On ! on for Payune.”
Within one giant breaker’s drift,
That shameful spear was poised aloft,
The curling crest uptowers ; and swift
Sped forth the blood-avenging shaft.
‘‘Ho! ho ! Atavi; there’s the way
One other went to Payune ! ”
Through throat and neck the spear-head tore.
Atavi tugged with main and might.
Blood-red upon the surf-torn shore
He watched her through his death’s swift
night.
What do the gleeful billows say ?
“We have avenged thee, Payune.”
BRISBANE.
S.
Mistress, to cook who has recently married
the policeman: “Well, Mary, and how do you
like married life?” Mary: “Oh, I don’t find
much difference, mum, only it’s more regular like.”
A complaint from Sydney in the Age—
probably the writer thought it was no use sending
it to the local Freetrade organs:—
The persistent efforts that have been made by the
1 Freetrade importers of Sydney to discredit Protection in
the eyes of the people are only too transparent. A
manufacturer of blinds complained that the tariff had
almost ruined him, as the importing house which supplied
him with his raw material was charging him 15s. as duty
upon goods costing £2 ss. The tariff was looked up, and
it was found that the articles in question were on the
free list. The importer was compelled to disgorge. All
invoices were marked with the ordinary' price of the
goods bought, and up to 100 per cent, added on as
“duty,” often when, as in the case mentioned, the duty'
was only 10 or 15 per cent., or did not exist. Another
citizen bought 21b. of screws, and the invoice read—
Screws, Bd. ; duty, 4d. ; total Is. The duty on screws at
the time was Id. per lb., so that the salesman increased
it on his own account by 100 per cent. In the clothing
•trades, manufacturers'-com plain also that warehousemen
have set their faces against giving fair prices, in order to
discredit Protection with the operatives.
The Man and the Horse.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The man on the horse passed up the street giving
no occasion to be noticed. To follow the ordinary
practice he would have pulled up at the front of
the hotel, dismounted, hung his horse up to the
rail placed for that purpose, gone into the bar,
shouted for the publican and others present, and
paid for his liquors. Then he might have re-
marked, “I suppose I can camp here to-night,
boss ? ”
But he passed around, without stopping, into a
side street, where he found the yard-gate, opened
it, and entered.
He unsaddled (a blanket swag was on the
saddle), took the bridle off, threw them on the
back verandah near the kitchen, and walked into
the dining-room where supper was on.
“Good-night, boss,” he said to the host, at the
head of the table. “Can I have a feed? I left
my horse in the yard.”
“ Sit down, mate. Will you have stew or
corned beef?”
After tea the publican and his lodger were with-
out other company, and the former proposed a
game of euchre. They played for a shilling a
game and the drinks. They played until closing
time, the stranger winning two games out of every
three ; sometimes he would lose two in succession
to the gratification of the publican.
He paid for his board before he turned in, and
was astir at the peeping of light.
After 8 o’clock breakfast the Sergeant was
passing, and to him the publican bade “good
morning.”
“Oh, good morning—good morning. Did you
happen to have any strangers here last night ? ”
“Yes, a quiet bloke, that drinks nothing but
limej nice, and can play euchre better than any
man in the country.”
“Who was he? Where did he go? Did he
have a horse ? ”
“I don’t know who he was. I never seen him
before ; he said he was going to look for a stand at
Dinwiddie.”
“What sort of a horse was he riding? ”
“A big dark bay.”
“By gum, that must be him,” said the Ser-
geant. “Do you know which way he went ?”
“Indeed, I don’t. I seen enough of him.”
The Sergeant went to the gate, looked at the
tracks, and followed them for a hundred yards.
Then he walked to his house quickly in the full-
ness of professional enjoyment. By instinct he
came to the conclusion that he would soon be able
to give a satisfactory reply to Mr. Monteith of
Coolbarra, from whom he had received by the
coach, which had arrived at 7 a.rn., a message that
his bay horse had been stolen.
“Polly,” he said to his wife, “get me a pair of
dirty old moleskin trousers and flannel shirt.”
“ What for, Michael ? ”
“Never you mind, woman.” Where’s Toby?
Toby ! Toby ! ” he shouted, to his blackboy.
“My sowl to glory, Toby—go over there, you
rascal, to Blacket’s yard, and track that horse
that went out this morning, what way that fella
bin go alonga road half-a-mile. Come back quick
now, you divil.”
Following upon Toby’s information, a poor-
looking nag was carrying an old bushman, with
drooping shoulders, wearing an ancient flapping
cabbage-tree hat, towards a tire whereon a
traveller was boiling his billy in the noon-time.
A bay horse, hobbled with a stirrup-leather, was
grazing a hundred yards from him, a saddle and
bridle lay near by on a log.
The old man rode up, saying, “Good day,
mate.”
“Gpod day,” the man replied, and busied him-
self with the calico bags containing his tea and
sugar, which he carried in his blanket, now un-
rolled on the ground.
“Do you know if they want any rouseabouts at
Estcourt ? ”
“I don’t know. I’m going there myself. Get
down and have a pot of tea.”
They passed the time together until about half-
past three, when the old man was asked if he
would have another cup of tea. On his replying
“No,” the other emptied his billy and shook out
the tea-leaves, and then proceeded to cut up some
tobacco to fill his pipe, preparatory to starting off.
The old man got up, saying, “Yes, it’s time to
be moving.” His horse had not wandered far, so
that he caught him and saddled him before the
other had completed the rolling up of his swag,
which he strapped very leisurely.
The old man, standing with his horse’s bridle in
his hand, watched with interested impatience,
until the other passed his left arm through the
loop on the swag and slung it on his shoulder with
a jerk, to settle it in an easy position, then, taking
up his billy in the right hand, stepped towards
the road, a few paces off.
“Aren’t you going to take your horse?” in-
quired the old man.
“ What horse ? ” asked the other.
“Why, your horse—that horse,” the old man
said fiercely, now losing his stoop, and pointing
determinedly to the bay horse, 400 yards off.
“ That’s not my horse. I have no horse.”
“Isn’t that your saddle and bridle?”
“ No ; it was here when I came,” and the man
walked away.
He had gone some distance before there was
shrieked after him : “ All right ! old man ! I’ll
nab you yet! ”
“ Good day, sergeant! ” the man shouted back.
“My sowl to glory; that’s a clean do ! ”
HUGH AHEABNE.
At Kalgoorlie Congregational Church,
smoking is now permitted; and it is put to the
men straight, at that church, that it is better to
smoke here than hereafter.
“Papangi”: I should like to know from
“Girarol” (B. 25/10/’O2) what taxation it is that
affects the Papuan miner’s pocket ? Outside
ordinary labor and mining fees, the Govt, scoops
precious little royalty on undeclared yellow
metal. Then as to “G.’s” assertion that
diggers meet natives in the interior who are more
civilised than those on the coast—if he has
cannibalism in his mind, let him walk for half-a-
day east or S.E. from, say, Dirty Camp, and he’ll
strike a tribe—name on application—who “scoff”
runaway carriers with great gusto. As to the
Googara tribe’s supposed looting of miners’ camps
at Elliott’s Creek, it is strange that several run-
away carriers (captured by police sent from
Tamata) were found to have many of the stolen
articles in their possession. Protection for miners’
camps is freely given where possible, but it is
foolish to expect that camps frequently left un-
guarded will not be looted. The miners on the
whole, however, deserve sympathy, because the
majority are hard-working and law-abiding,
though a few “ wasters ” may at first give a new-
comer a bad impression of the community.


For All the Family
Our Old Family Medicine. Good for Father, Mother, and the Children.
Purifies, Builds Up. Experience of a Trained Nurse.
Mrs. John Evans, of Subiaco,
West Australia, sends this pho-
tograph of herself and children,
and says:
“ Whenever any member of
my family becomes pale, weak,
debilitated, or suffers from im-
pure blood, I always fall back on
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and Ayer’s
Pills. I give the Pills to keep
tire bowels all right and the
Sarsaparilla to make the blood
pure and strengthen the nerves.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla carried my
husband through a bad attack
of inlluenza, and later it also
cured him of rheumatism. I
have often given it to my chil-
dren when they have lost their
appetite and become listless. I
practise as a nurse, and fre-
quently recommend Ayer’s Sarsaparilla for the very tryingclimate of this country.
And I can truthfully say that both nurse and patient are always greatly pleased.
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
This testimonial should convince every one who reads it of the great value
of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla as a blood-purifier and general tonic. Mrs. Evans
speaks as a mother, ever watchful over the health of those most dear to her.
She also speaks as a professional nurse, one who knows jusf what effect these
medicines have on those who are suffering.
Be sure you get Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. There are a great many substitute
Sarsaparillas on the market that will disappoint you. Avoid imitations.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
A Great Blood-purifier and Blood-builder
Take Ayer’s Pills with Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. One aids the otner.
Prepared by DB. J. C. AYEB & CO.. Lowell, Mass.. IT. 8. A.
.a
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK; Price, 4s. 6(1
A Handsome Cloth-bound Volume of over 300 pages. The best
collection of Short Stories and Literary Sketches yet produced in
Australia. Price, 4s. 6d., postage 6d. Wholesale : Edwards,
Dunlop and Co.
list OF contents. Postage 6d
SOLE DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
. N -
Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
S. FREEMAN 1- SONS L!^
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES;
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE: WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
I
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
THE BRQWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
eHWs
It OR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Costiveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
GITIFEA A BOX.”
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with (he Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham's Bills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieine in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENCLAHB.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is lid, and 2s 9d each.
ERTS’ HOTEL, you enjoy your lunch
George and Market Sts.j
SYDNEY.
APARTMENTS:
BEDROOM (single), 3s. per DAT.
BEDROOM (double), 6s. per DAT.
Single Room, with Full Board, Bs. per
day, or £2 2s. per week.
TERMS. The convenient
system of paying: for the
room on arrival and
meals as they are had.
When you come to Roberts’ Hotel
Dining Rooms ; and you not only
enjoy it, but it does you good as
■well. There is always a large and
tempting variety of excellent food on
our menu, and on Fridays there is a
special fish luncheon for those who
want it in addition to the ordinary.
The luncheon is ready at twelve
o’clock sharp—-from Is.—and there
is first-class attendance. Dinner and
tea from 5.30 to 7.30 —from Is.
upwards. Silver grill at work.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS'S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST- SUPPER.
DON’T MISS THIS
OPPORTUNITY, if you are suffering: with WEAKENING,
NERVOUS, and DEBILITATING Diseases. Our CON-
CENTRATED BOTANIC REMEDIES will CURE YOU.
So CONFIDENT are we of this that we will send to any
sufferer a TRIAL COURSE (Free of Charge) and abide
by the RESULT. Send NOW and your ultimate CURE
is CERTAIN. Address —
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Eiizabeth-street, Sydney.
The Bulletin Reciter; Price ss.
By Eighty (80) Bulletin Bards. With Illustrations by
“ Hop,” N. Lindsay, A. J. Fischer, F. Leist, D. H.
Souter, and H. McCrae. In handsome Cloth, decorated.
Price, 55.; postage, 4d.
LIST OF CONTENTS:'
Postage 4d-
The How - We - Beat - the -
Favourite Affliction ...
Gig Fours # ...
Don’t Let the Moth Get In
The Winner of the Squat-
ters’Cup
The Three Roads
Christmas Belle
My Mate Bill
What the Bottle Said ...
A German Lament ...•
The Anarchist
The Fall of Patrick
Dooley
The Jester of the Damned
The Hairy Man of Koora-
watha
A Big “Bust”
A Tight Corner
The Road to Wyoming
Jim Jamieson, of Tringabar
The Mallee Fire
Among the Palms
Dreams and Deeds
Boko
“Dunno!”
The Fat Man and the War
The Shoe
The Cocky’s Handy Man ...
Bashful Gleeson
Skeeta
The Currency Lass
The Confidential Jockey
How We Won the Ribbon
A Twisted Idyl
The Tugs of Simpsonville
The Sick Cab-Rider
Tambaroora ...
Father Riley’s Horse
O’Toole and M‘Sharry ...
Faces in the Street ...
The Bush Missionary
The Last Bullet
The Honeymoon Train ...
The Mukdeb-Night
A Scotch Night
M. M. O'Donnell
“McG.”
T. A. Wilson
Frank Bellman
Victor J. Daley
‘ ‘ John Carew ”
G. H. Gibson
E. J. Brady
“ Sendee ”
Arthur H. Adams
E. J. Dempsey
J. H. Greene
“ Tom Freeman ”
Edward Dyson
C. H. Souter
Evelyn Threlfall
“Fan”
C. IT. Souter
“ Hesketh”
E. J. Dempsey
“ Curlew”
Bernard Espinasse
“ Magnet”
J. M. L.
‘ ‘ Ben Sun ”
Edward Dyson
Barcroft Boake
Roderic Quirm
Francis Kenna
Will H. Ogilvie
Frank Morton
W. T. Goodge
Edmu 11 d Fisher
“Sendee”
A. B. Paterson
Thomas E. Spencer
Henry Lawson
W. T. Goodge
John Farrell
A. G. Stephens
Hugh M'Crae
Will H. Ogilvie
Sole Distributing Agents —
Edwards, Dunlop & Co,, Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane,


CELLULOID
COLLAR
GOODNESS-
We sell the good kind of Celluloid
Collars. Our Celluloid Collars
nave a nice, white, clean appear-
ance, and stay white. They clean
well, and Last longer than other
Kinds, they save lots of money, be-
cause you can wash them yourself.
In all the latest styles and
shapes, at Lowest Prices
for Highest Qualities.
PERDRIAU & CO.
Rubber Merchants,
270 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
2a
I*
WE SHIP ON APPROVAL
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles. Fully warranted.
M0u1^.2. 10 t0£5.5.0
DunTyres. Steel or Wood Rims,
Wee VVheels, Mud Guards and Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID
To any tort in Australasia.
TYRES, ACCESSORIES,
Sporting Goods and Sewing
Machines Half Usual Prices.
Write for Catalogue and Special Offer
Using 2jd. Stamp. Address Dept 3iOU
Mead Cycle Co -
Chicago•
U.S.A.
60 Y
EARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
w. c. EIiDBIDGE & CO.
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YO3 aK SsIRJSi-T, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
Conntry Orders by pout from all the colonies promptly
J to.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
/
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
W<<*r
'
V
WMf
//
m.
#£>*
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
For all Services kept in Stock.
Send for Catalogue.
AMMATT’
s
Spoons, Forks,
Celebrated
PLATE and
mark-
pocket-knives & Scissors cutlery
J. & J. MAXFIELD, PROPRS., SHEFFIELD
A* the Showrooms—
Empire Chambers, 93 York-St.
SYDNEY.
Also at
“the blocb:,*’
Collins-st.. MELBOURNE.
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
CAN OBTAIN
IT
BY
USING
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED ;
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d„ 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers —M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND.
Bros., Sydney.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Auctions.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout, '
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
idinneford!
MAGNESIA
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
As well as Mining Machinery, Steam Engines and Boilers,
m
lipm
i i
I
All Kinds of Engineers’Fittings and Supplies
Wood Pulleys
Shafting
Hangers
Plummer Blocks
Collars
Couplings
ffxm
Reamers
Valves Valves Valves Valves
Oster Stocks and Dies and Taps, Crane Hinged Pipe Vyces, Emery
Wheels and Grinders, all kinds of Lubricators, Starrett Fine
Mechanical Tools, etc., etc., etc.
write for Prices to 60 Clarence-st., Sydney, N.S.W.
i
.Sufferers from Deafness or Het-_ poises
desiring a complete and permanent cure
Bhould write to The L. R. VEEN Off CO.
60 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY, for pam-
phlet describing an entirely new self-
applied method which we will send post
free on mentioning this paper.
H. F. fiREGORK S CO.
Machinery. Merchants,
Melbourne & Sydney.
HAVE IN STOCK—
Blake's Steam Pumps.
Fays Woodworking Machinery.
Mundy’s Hoisting Engines-
Empire Co.’s Laundry Machinery-
American “All Steel” Pulleys-
Harris (< Champion” Lubricating Oils.
Mason Reducing Valves-
Ludlow Sluice Valves-
Korting’s Injectors and Ejectors-
Tanite Emery Wheels.
I NERVOUSNESS.
3 LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY,
j A Gentleman having tried in vain every
I advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS Of SELF
j CURB, will forward the same, free of
j charge, to anyone interested.
Address: A. MINER, G.P.0., BYDNEY.
RARE.
BOOKS
FRENCH,
ENGLISH,
GERMAN,
. 2/-
Largest Catalogue, with
Specimen Photo. Apply
Box 116 Paris.
RAND DRILL CO.,
NEW YORK.
Manufacturers of
AIR COMPRESSORS
of New aod Improved Design.
LITTLE GIANT & SLUGGER ROCK DRILLS
Stocks kept by
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd.,
Sole Agents . 71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. lOltS.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Bails
Catered for
on Most .
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets anil
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCINS “i.OO
of various sizes supplied.
*«*v.
TO VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotei
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
