

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
•wrra
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB— b . . ,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Minin sf Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ akd GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
HUSTON'S Compound Dredge Engine
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd.,
71 CLARENCE ST.
Sydney.^
- ' i
And at
486 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
214 HIGH ST., FREMANTLE.
MCDONALD ST.i KALCOORLIE.
CUBA STREET EXTENSION, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
A Policy for the Commonwealth
Being a reprint; of a large number of articles from
The Bulletin, in which this paper has attempted to
outline a solvent, honest and democratic policy
for Federated Australia.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° 35
Pitt Street,
SYDNEY
Have in Stock and to arrive, the following:: Ruston, Proctor & Co.’s Compound Dredge Engines and Boilers, Centrrfuga
Pumps, Steel Wire Ropes, Bucket Lip Steel, Tyre Steel, MHd Steel, Manganese Steel for Pl "« ®“**!®*!
Buckets, Grab Hooks, Links, Grab Hook Points, Tumblers, &c. +« order. OSBORN SST EE LISTINGS.
ENGINES & BOILERS, &c., FOR GOLD DREDGING
THORNES
Estbd. 1831 WHISKY.
HELIDON SPA
A PERFECT TABLE WATER.
XOOTK & CO. Ltd., Sydney.
dsf
ifi
ilili
sdf
HO
AHT.
'*V //I
1!^
Henry Skinner,
Olarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 1013.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Baiis
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
soiled jauuiQ
puts sjenbuag
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCINS FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
RESERVE EXTRA. RESERVE SPECIAL. RESERVE EXTRA SPECIAL. SUPREME
SAN DEMAN’S AUSTRALIAN WINES.
241 PITT STREET, SYDIXTEY.
PIONEER
LEATHER
1 ?
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
PRICES PER FOOT OF SINGLE AND DOUBLE
BELTING :
2 2£ 3 8i 4 5 6 8 10 12 inch.
_/7 -/9 -/10J 1/- 1/2 1/6 1/11 2/8 3/4 4/-
1/2 1/4 1/7 1/10 2/2 2/11 3/5 4/5 5/7 6/9
Agents in every State.
Made by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan - Lamp.
■£
£ W:-- \NWASiqa
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
imitations.
United Elect-'c Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch : 16 Carrlngton-street,
Wifi*YARD SQUASS, bYA>NiS¥.
Q’nslaml Depot— Central Buildin s Edw ard-st, Brisbane.
BAXTER’S BARLEY BREE
THE THREE B’s
{ WHISKY }
ARE HUMMING.
EMPIRE HOTEL, SYDNEY
MOST CEINrTB.ALTY SITU ATED.
OTARD-DUPtY
Estbd. 1795. 25 Years BRANDY.
m
PROOF
%
Qn ev,'s
USE
Head Office: ,
10 BLICH ST., SYDNEY
When buying: a Water bury
see t!~a % it bears the
WA'T'IEBURY WATCH CO.
WATCH
as a Guarantee of its Genuineness.
NFOLDS
ADELAIDE
sd
Natures Most
Pleasing Restorative
From the Oldest Vineyards
IN
South Australia.
D- Andrew Wilson F. R.S.E.
Author of'Health Notes”
London.
SAYS
PENFOLD’S WINES
Arethe Safest Stimulant"
SYDNEYCELLARS
84 Pitt Street.
The Bulletin
Vol. 23.—N0. 1144]
[Saturday, January 18, 1902.
Feeistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
For
COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS of the
THROAT and
LUNGS.
(REGISTERED).
LO*
IN TINS, Is. 6d
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable for Singers
and Public Speakers.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OR POST FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR,
G. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q.
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE ; and FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO., MELBOURNE, AGENTS
They ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia.
THE RED PAGE.
rrra youthful Bradlaugh proudly dubbed
I himself “Iconoclast”—and the elderly
JL Henley may still earn the title. His
Dec. onslaught upon the chromo Stevenson
in Pall Mall maga. (a much “cheaper” pub-
lication since a commoner took the place
of the lordly co-editor) flutters no Volscians
in Australia, where “R.L.S.” excites only
the moderate interest his velvet-coated work
deserves. But the fiery cross is going round
the Kail-yard, and America is crazy. The
Kail-yard is never quite satisfied with its
hero till it sees him in a stained-glass
window in the kirk; and Graham Balfour had
Stevenson neatly fixed with his feet on the con-
quered world of Literature, his pathetic hands
crossed upon his noble breast, and his eyes up-
turned in a holy glare which meant “ I see that
Thou God seest me.” Just as everybody is saying
“ Braw, mon ! braw ! ” —whiz ! smash !—wicked
Henley’s stone comes through the window. (And
Burns, in the next frame, is not yet repaired.)
As for the U.S.A., they seem hopelessly domi-
nated by the Shirt-Waist audience, the progeny
of Boston culture and Wanamaker’s dry-goods.
The eastern States, at all events, are populated
chiefly by literary Mugwumps—persons educated
beyond their intellects, whose blood looks under
the microscope like Mr. Casaubon’s, full of
commas and semi-colons in place of corpuscles.
Stevenson’s glittering arrangements of coloured
glass were accepted as Boston diamonds
of the first water; and for ten years he
has been a favourite American fetish. When
good American readers died in the latter nineties,
they went to Samoa as a matter of course. Even
Lloyd Osbourne has been accepted as a friend of
American humanity, and wears a reflected halo.
As for Mrs. S., whom Stevenson publicly apos-
trophised as “trusty, dusky, vivid, true,” &c.,
and privately d -d when the cooking was n’t
satisfactory, she has been adored from Kalamazoo
to Newport, and Sing Sing has written shocking
verses abqut her. So Henley is classed as a Bad
Man, and the sheriff is lighting-out after him.
Yet Henley does not say very much, after all.
He refers to his saying as garrulous: it is also
rather querulous. He is not occupied with
Stevenson the writer—only with Stevenson the
man—who matters little anyway, and would
matter less if biographer Balfour’s eulogy ran no
risk of being accepted as gospel. (Possibly
Colvin’s grand refusal to write the life was stimu-
lated by knowledge that he could not rise to the
level of the Legend.) As Balfour exists, it is just
as well that Henley has spoken, but he might
have spoken to more purpose. Others than
Henley, it seems, have described Stevenson
in a word of three letters— cad is apparently
meant, or if it is not Henley should say
so. Henley himself doubtless finds the word too
crude for the complex, inlaid and over-laid,
character of Stevenson. Of S’s literary style H.
says that it is so perfectly achieved that the
achievement gets obvious: “and when achieve-
ment gets obvious, is it not by way of becoming
uninteresting? And is there not something
to be said for the person who wrote that
Stevenson always remiuded him of a young
man dressed the best lie ever saw for the
Burlington Arcade ? ” This criticism is obvious
also; but not to Stevenson’s biographer, or
Stevenson’s worshippers. Since the cult needec
killing, Henley should have dealt a more decisive
blow. The reason of his comparative weakness is
that he has been too close to this god to become
an effective image-breaker. He is in the position
of a priest who sees the crowd carry his own
reverence to ludicrous lengths, and makes uneasy
protest, hampered by the memory of intimacy.
Within the temple his voice is thunder; beyonc
it one can hardly hear the sounds.
It was even Algernon Charles Swinburne—the
poet of “Songs before Sunrise,” the champion of
distressed races—who penned this—
THE DEATH OF COLONEL BENSON.
Northumberland, so proud and sad to-day,
Weep and rejoice, our mother whom no son
More glorious than this dead and deathless one
Brought ever fame whereon no time shall prey.
Nor heed we'more than he what liars dare say
Of mercy’s holiest duties left undone
Towards whelps and dams of murderous foes, whom
none
Save we had spared or feared to starve and slay.
Alone a:s Milton and as Wordsworth found
And hailed their England, when from all around
Howled all the recreant hate of envious knaves,
Sublime she stands : while, stifled in the sound,
Each lie that falls from German boors and slaves
Falls but as filth dropt in the wandering waves.
J*
When the destruction of child-life in the African
prison-camps set humane people in a blaze ol
indignation, the Jingoes cast about for replies—
which Australia duly received per cable. There
were the “green paint” excuses and others
(a single instance quoted as typical), and the
Eng. doctor’s assertion that the death-rate
of children in the Eng. towns of Manchester,
Salford, and Birkenhead was, as great as
that in the prison-camps. This also was plainly
a lie; but we have had to await the Eng.
mail for the answer. It turns out that the
Eng. figures refer to children less than one year
old, whose mortality is always exceptionally
heavy. But the African statistics refer to
children vp to 12 years old; and the annual
death-rate per 1000, of children between 5 and 10
years of age, is but 8’69 per 1000 in Manchester,
Salford, and Birkenhead. The Sept, death-rate
of children up to 12 years in the prison-camps
equalled 332 per 1000 per annum ; and naturally
the proportion of infants was small. (The cabled
death-list for Oct. and Nov. carefully omitted the
number in camps; making comparative estimate
impossible.)
It is a French satirist, Remy de Gourmont,
who suggests (following Swift) that Kitchener
does not really utilise the Boer children as he
might. At the present rate it is calculated that
the last Boer infant will die in about three years.
Why prolong the agony ? Why not mercifully
knock the infants on the head, and use them as
food for Kitchener’s ever-victorious army—which
badly needs fresh meat ? Then the last Boer
infant could be put, hot and savoury, on the table
of Lord Kitchener himself in something less than
ten months ; and the war would be over !—for the
Boer remnant would be unable to stand before
troops fed to exceptional vigour upon the children
of the Boers themselves.
Failing this expedient, there is still one that the
British Ministry may adopt. Of late, the war has
not been going too well. On paper, Lord
Kitchener has annihilated the entire Boer force
as officially stated when the war began. But
fresh Boers arise; and, though their country is
< ?i Was *' e ’ they feed, clothe, and arm themselves
at the expense of the British. The more troops
and supplies forwarded to Africa, the greater the
plenty tor the Boers. Convoys are intercepted ;
companies are captured and stripped ; guns and
ammunition are taken and Lord Kitchener
makes slow headway, if any. It has long been
evident that he is not the right general in the
right place. Yet success emphatically depends
upon the general. The destinies of the British
Empire are at stake. Those destinies are not to
be trifled with. Let Lord Salisbury send for
Major Neild.
Lond. Athenceum on A. A. Grace’s Maori
stones—
There are close upon 30 stories in this volume of 250
pages and the bulk of them have appeared in the Sydney
Bulletin [This is inaccurate.] Now Mr. Grace has
talent; he writes well, but is somewhat cramped and
confined by the traditions of the Bulletin. If one has
been taught that the perfect method in fiction is to tell a
good story in 10 four-line paragraphs, with asterisks to
. e P’ ace a b explanatory or descriptive matter
[This is an exaggeration] one is apt to produce something
rather like one of Bret Harte's “ Sensation Novels.” In a
case of a writer with as much to tell as Mr. Grace one
rather resents such methods.
Fiddle ! The Bulletin never contended that its
story-telling style is the best; but only that it is
the best for The Bulletin. Nothing prevented
Grace from lengthening his Bulletin stories for
book-print. All the same, the longer stories in
Tales of a Dying Race are not always among the
best; so that he might have gained nothing if he
had lengthened.
Stead bobs up unexpectedly with a cheque for
£260, which he tenders to M.L. Govt, as refund of
price paid for that questioned article in The
Review of Reviews for Australasia. When Seddon
was defending the expenditure before M.L. Parlia-
ment, he explained that pro-Boer,Stead had no
connection with the Aus. Review. Stead now
declares that “although Dr. Fitchett and his son
have a partnership interest, and absolute liberty
m the management, I am still the holder of the
majority of the stock—and I cannot for a moment
consent to accept the money voted ” under such
circumstances.
&
After the reference to Prof. Morris went to
press last week, news came of his death from
pneumonia in London, whither he went to arrange
publication of his new life of ©apt. Cook. The de-
ceased gentleman, in his capacity as Professor of
Modem Literature at Melb. University,was person-
ally estimable and painstaking ; but of late years
there have been complaints about the quality of
his teaching. The system of appointing Univer-
sity professors for life works badly in Aus-
tralia. For the most part (and this with-
out reference to Prof. Morris) they rot in their
chairs. Their knowledge, tested by examinations
perhaps twenty years past, grows out-of-date, and
they do not labour to maintain it. Instead of being
vital forges, most of them are mere media for the
filtration of text-books. A better plan would be
to appoint every professor for five years, with
re-appointment only when he deserved it. The
salaries paid are quite sufficient to attract good
men on these terms.
Prof. Morris, as last week stated, did make
endeavour to do original work ; and his ambition
was creditable to him. Unluckily, he possessed
only industry as a qualification for authorship.
The facts which he gathered he could not ade-
quately present: his work was deficient in stimu-
lus aiid barren of suggestion. What he did in
the Higinbotham memoir and the Austral-English
dictionary was merely to prepare foundations: it
remains for better men to erect the buildings.
J*
To replace Prof. Morris, Melb. University
should secure a Continental scholar, under thirty-
five years of age, able to speak and write French,
German, and Italian at least; acquainted with
the literatures of those languages ; and an original
student and writer, versed in modern ideas, and
able to expound them with tongue and pen. Or
it should appoint a local student such as Chris.
Brennan, now of Sydney Public Library, a man
whose knowledge of literatures and power of mind
are uncommon even in Europe.
Inspector Gripp, of Q. Education Dept., quoted
in Bris. Worker—
After my experience in the North of Queensland, where
it is popularly believed that the climate takes all vigour
and energy out of its inhabitants, when I was transferred
to the Southern district, with its cool and bracing air, I
fully expected to find the minds and bodies of the children
more active and vigorous, and therefore more adapted to
really hard work than in the case of their Northern rivals,
but I cannot say that I found this to be a fact.
Said Chamberlain in a recent speech : “ I might
die to-morrow and this great empire of our fathers
would still remain.” But—
Josephus states to an admiring train
That if he died the empire would remain.
Yes, if you die, it will survive you, Jo ;
But if you live ? That’s what we want to know-
writes an Eng. epigrammatist.
Some correspondents—
H. : Parallel fails because we can’t accept the implica-
tion that Australians who stick to the Transvaal war are
“steadfast heroes .” The “ circusy” men who return first
are apparently doing better for humanity than those who
continue the evil struggle... Yes, we know our Lindsay
Gordon, whatever our unfamiliarity with Bindley Murray.
Several correspondents point out that an enquired-for
line occurs in Gordon’s “ Delilah ” (Poems, 108) /
Oh, woman, allied to the serpent !
Oh, beauty with venom combined !
It was H. J. McCooey, the local snake-charmer,
who wanted to know. The line hit him where
he lives Thanks to D.M.G. ; H.F.T. ; J.S.S., and
others H.F.T. : “As to illustrators’ blunders.
A little time back B. published a drawing which
depicted a squatter catching red-handed a sheep-stealer
killing one of his sheep: said sheep-stealer alleging he
did it in self-defence. The error is that the sheep is hung
up as a pig would be, and not a sheep. Any butcher
would see the difference at once.” And the illustrators
must not argue that the quality of their work is inde-
pendent of a butcher’s criticism. The force of emotion
depends partly upon its truth ; and these little blunders
detract from artistic quality just as a breath of garlic
detracts from the quality of a kiss. We may kiss despite
the garlic, but not so kindly Ignotus: “ At Ilipon
Diocesan Conference, 16th October, the Bishop of that ilk
said that ‘to ignore improvements was to be un-
grateful to God ; and to ignore existing evils was to be
unfaithful to man. Turn the prelate upside down in
Aristophanic fashion (the Greek is “unprintable”) and
we have it : ‘To ignore improvements is to be
ungrateful to man, to ignore existing evils is to
grossly adulate a Creator- who ‘ fain would do
all things well, but sometimes, fails in strength.’ ~. .
Further, hotel-keeper complained of my smoking in
the dining-room. I pointed to the usual flowers, ten days
old, in brown water, and quoted: ‘Lilies that fester
smell far Worse than weeds.’ Thought I had killed him.
Fancy him recognising the Bard! Where will this
democracy take us?” [“ To give is so beautiful. I said
so to my tailor yesterday. He answered, ‘ I differ from
you, sir, in toto.’ How horrible this spread of education
is !” —The Green Carnation.] M.L. : Did n’t see : why
did you not send? J.G.: Obvious topic, editorially
handled.
The Passing of Swinburne .
WHENEVER the discussion of militarism
arises, one of the commonest pleas put
forwjfd in its defenoe is that, at the
worst, war out some noble qualities in
the combatants which otherwise would lie
dormant—courage, self-sacrifice, chivalry. And
there is an idea in the minds of many otherwise
estimable people that a bout of national blood-
letting, now and then, is a rather wholesome
thing. When we descend from the abstract to
the concrete, and examine this theory in the light
of facts, it is to be feared that it will not stand
very long. To my thinking, the present South
African war is the clearest and greatest single
problem in political morality which has arisen in
these countries for a generation.' It is a kind of
touchstone by which we may try men. But one
fact, at least, stands out clear; no one with
any regard for truth can hereafter say that war
brings out the noble qualities of a people. Every
scientific thinker must regard militarism as the
antithesis of sanity, politically and ethically ; the
sword is not, never was, and never will be a
symbol of civilisation, which is a growth of peace;
but, while most of us realise these truths, few can
have conceived it likely that under the sway of
militarist prejudice, with domestic peace, the
English press and populace would descend to such
levels of gross vulgarity and baseness as we have
had evidence of during the past two years. Talk
of fortitude, of chivalry, of respect for the good
qualities of the enemy ! Why, the prevailing
tone has been one of surprise and annoyance that an
enemy should defend himself at all. The English
people seem to think, as Mr. Dooley says, that their
side is to do all the shooting, and that shooting
back is criminal. To an outsider, the situation is
really laughable. The English generals, without,
as is now evident, any real military necessity,
burnt the Boer farm-steads, destroyed dams, and
rendered desolate the country. That is all right,
according to the English press. But when, on the
other hand, the Boers derail and fire on a train
conveying military, who would be prepared the
next minute to fire on these same Boers if they
could, even Lord Kitchener talks of “wanton
murder.” There is never a story of a British re-
verse but it is accompanied by some whine about
“Boer atrocities”; so that one would imagine
even the least manly would grow a trifle ashamed.
* » * *
Amongst men of letters, however, the worst
collapse is that of Mr. Swinburne ; and the
chagrin and regret in his case is all the greater
because of the remembrance of what he once was.
Perhaps Mr. Swinburne’s verse was always a
little too flamboyant, and there was evidence
always of a certain want of intellectual steadiness.
But, at any rate in his youth, he could sing of
freedom and high ideals with great power. He
has now fallen to uttering incoherent and almost
obscene abuse, not merely of the men who are
fighting in the field ; he has even disgraced him-
self by using language about women and children
that could scarcely be equalled in the lowest pot-
house. Apparently, if he had his way, the
“whelps and dams of murderous foes” would
have been all butchered in cold blood, and he
apparently thinks it noble that England should
have “spared or feared to starve and slay” the
defenceless women whose homes have been burnt,
and who have been congregated in the prison-
camps. ’All the while the fact being that this
Swinbumian nobility is conspicuous by its
absence, and that, short of absolute deliberate
starvation, nothing that a fiendish ingenuity could
devise to inflict suffering on these people was left
untried. Those women whose husbands were still
fighting in the field, and those children whose
fathers were fighting, were stinted of the common
necessaries of life; there has been produced in the
camps—if not by deliberate intention, at least by
criminal carelessness —a death-rate which threatens
to eliminate all the Boer children in a couple of
years; and so conscious of their guiltiness are
even the authors of this blackguardism that they
were afraid the other day to let Miss Hobhouse
land in Cape Town, lest she might speak the
truth. It is in these circumstances that the com-
fortable Mr. Swinburne, lolling in his ease at
home, pens his abomination. . .
The case of Mr. Swinburne does not bear argu-
ment. Plainly, we are in the presence of a kind
. of dementia, induced by the fact that England is
at war. In this article Ido not argue the larger
political issue . . . But I should be sorry to
think that the sufferings of women and the deaths
of little children had come to be regarded . . .
as matters of party politics. These things are not
questions of partisan politics ; they are questions
of common humanity, and the prevention of them
a common human duty.
* * * *
We are all, however, concerned in checking
the spread of militarism, and Mr. Swinburne’s
outburst shows how far that creed is a help
to humanity, or good feeling of any kind ;
we need say nothing of its literary aspect.
And as for ' Mr. Swinburne individually . . .
I personally feel what I would feel for
some wife-beater or coward who slandered
absent women. Blackguardism is not ren-
dered less offensive because it is written
in metre. But it is with sadness one writes these
criticisms. It is pathetic to. see a poet like Swin-
burne soiling his own reputation, and scrawling
across the tablet of the memory of what he once
was, filthy sentences like those he now writes. If
the’old Swinburne is dead, his memory might
have been left in peace. Well, indeed, is it when
death comes in the noon-day.
FRELDERICE RYAB, in The Ereethinker.
The Boarding-House Rubaiyat
Wake ! for the Clock is on the stroke of Eight;
The Butter Man cries “ Milk ho ” at the gate ;
The hash house Bell is clanging in the hall,
The smell of Onions issues from the grate.
Before the echo of the Bell had died,
A strident Voice unto the Kitchen cried,
“ Here ! bring me Mutton Chops, well done, for one,”
And “ Steak and Onions ! ” from the other side.
Each morn “ It’s Mutton Chops again 1 ” you say,
“ Yes, but where went the Roast of Yesterday ?
And this same Hash before you on the plate
May be the Roast metempsychosed,” ifay !
Some Boarders fly to marriedlife, and some
Submit to imposition and are dumb :
Ah, take the Hash and let the Curry go!
There is no help this side of Kingdom Come.
Look to the blooming Widow that you know :
Lightly she says, “T *ll take a Guest or so,
A paying Guest to keep the house alive,
And maybe marry him to Cis or Flo.”
And having once the Boarding Factory ta’en,
She feeds the Boarders up as right as rain :
She mends their Socks and sews their Buttons on,
But in a while her zeal begins to wane.
The hope of Sons-in-Law she doted on
Turns ashes, or it prospers, and anon
As sure as fate the Bailiff Man intrudes,
And, lo ! her little legacy is gone.
I know the Nannygoats high revels keep
In Boarding-houses where I used to sleep,
While ghosts of broken-hearted Widows Wail,
And phantom Boarders thro’ the windows creep.
I put an ad. into the daily Press,
In quest of Lodgings—pound a week or less ;
And by and by I called again and found
A host of Answers bearing my address.
And some of them were dainty, some were loud ;
And some were written from “ beneath a cloud ; ”
And some pathetic were, and some were quaint,
While some were plain and homely—some were proud.
And some were genuine and some a sham,
And some were wolves in clothing like a lamb ;
I read ’em all and pitched ’em in the fire,
And said : “ The Deuce ! I’m better where I am.”
Myself, when young and very innocent,
Did often enter into argument
With Jack and Harry at the boarding-house,
With Tom and Bill or any other gent.
■And at it tongs and hammer we would go,
I used to sweep the Floor With them you know ;
And then they’d hate me ever more. But now
I sit in silence and I let ’em blow.
Into the morning hours I hear them blowing
About their cricket, football, or their rowing,
About their fancy for the Melbourne Cup;
Or some such other idiotic crowing.
What! (without wishing to be insolent)
Were Brains for nothing but such twaddle meant ?
Oh, many a time I marvel why on earth
Such bragging Bounders to this earth are sent !
To me I own it unsolved Mystery,
A Matter that I never could quite see,
That everywhere, in every Boarding-house,
The type of Boarders is the same to me.
A given Boarding-house is like the rest,
There is no better and there is no best;
From ten to thirty bob a week, or else
From common Lodger up to Paying Guest.
Earth would not answer, nor the Stars that blink,
Nor rising Moons, nor Moons that wane and sink ;
I asked them all and got no answer back,
And then at last I went and had a drink.
Then to the lip of the big pewter Pot,
I put the question, and it answered “ Rot!
Go home and pack, and try a Public-house,
You ’ll like it better,”—so I drank, and got.
Then to a Pub. I came awhile to live,
And from the Pub. was soon a fugitive,
Back to the Boarding-house again to learn
The lesson that a Man must take and give.
I think the Pewter that had answered “ Rot! ”
Had in its past existence been a Sot,
Whose bone and? body had been changed to lead,
And later to a beer-encircling Pot.
For I remember but the other day
I saw a Copper put a beer away,
And half it seemed to me the Pewter said—
“ Go gently, brother Copper, gently pray.”
We are no other than the things that grow
In Chinkees’ gardens by the river low ;
We are but Meat and Bread transmogrified ;
Yea, nothing more in spite of all pur Blow.
Bipeds omnivorous ! thro’ all Life’s scenes
Our Stomachs range, devouring meat and greens ;
The airs we give ourselves ! yet after all
We are but glorified Sausage Machines.
It is a truth which no Man can deny,
We’ve got to eat or else we’d droop and die ;
Our Souls immortal on our Stomachs lean,
Our Stomachs keep our Spirits from the sky.
With Man’s first advent came the Stomach’s need,
Men follow always where their Stomachs lead ;
The Stomach is the root of every ill,
The basic motive for the highest deed.
What! Out of Chops and out of Irish Stew
To build such Wonder Works as Me and You,
With all our aspirations and desires ;
Why, bless my soul, you'd scarcely think it true !
A VICTIM, in Brisb. Worker (abridged).


M DOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP
THE ORIGINAL NON-POISONOUS DIP.
IVI'DOUGALL BROS., 8 Spring 1 Street, Sydney.
Agents: JXT.jg. L. 3MC. A. Co., LtdL. LOCAL AGENTS EVERYWHERE
WOOL
SEND
YOUR
WOOL
—— TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
If you want to get the best possible results.
try orders.
Tails. Plaits
y/rs
i CM'I
FRINGES, Best Natural Curly Hair, 3/6, 6/6,
7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each. TAlLS'and PLAITS,
20in. long, 6/6, ; Extra Thick, 7/6 ; 24in.,
10/6; Extra Thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings Worked Up, 2/6 per oz.
Don’t be misled. Our Plaits and Tails are
twice as thick as sold elsewhere at same
price. Send Color of Hair. “ Only ONE
Address”:— W. H. WIGZELL,
110 WILLIAM-ST., Corner of Palmer-st.,
Sydney. Cable trams will stop at door. All
work guaranteed Illustrated catalogue
post free. Prompt attention given to coun-
Wigs made on shortest notice.
Butter Cooler and Meat Safe.
Reduces the temperature
16 degrees by capillary
action of water.
Price - - -5/- each
Postage, 1/- extra.
ICE-CREAM
FREEZERS
which require no labor,
15/- each;
postage, 1/6 extra.
Send for Catalogue.
Brandt Bros.
fd
236 PITT STREEI
And at 422 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
■.SYDNEY.
BRAUN ORE SAMPLE-CRUSHER
and PULVERISER.
m.
Combination of a Jaw and Roll
Pulveriser working together.
May be operated by either hand or power.
Jaws, 3£ in. wide; Roll, 6 in. diameter; Belt
Wheel, 16 x2£ In. Total Weight, 2 85lbs
Write for Particulars to—
PARKE & LACY CO., Ltd.
60 Clarence-St., Sydney, n.s.w.
MINING ENGINEERS & MACHINERY
MERCHANTS.
HAVE THE
BEST.
■■■■Ill
I I I I 11 11
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE FENCE
Is built by a light, handy machine, easily Operate 1, which will weave
THREE CHAINS OF FENCE AN HOUR.
The Lateral Wires are two-ply cable of best Gal. Steel Wire intersected by Crimped Steel Pickets
securely interwoven at any desired distance apart, forming a perfect Web Fence which will hold
secv/rely all kinds of Stock.
FOR CATALOGUES AND PARTICULARS
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE PENCE CO.,
128 Franklin St. F Melbourne j 143 Sussex St. f Sydney.
NEITHER CRACK
NOR BURN.
D
a a
BOSS'
*099
$9
9022
SHILLING BRIAR PIPES
QUALITY NOT BETTER
IN A GUINEA PIPE. . .
GUARANTEE.—ShouId »ny of our Celebrated CAN’T-B-BEAT Briar Pipes Crack or Burn a
New One will be Exchanged for it immediately on Application.
Sold by all Tobacconists. By Post, Is. 2d.
Mick Simmons, haymarket, Sydney.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole diarg© : 3 Per Cent, to the Growers.
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge per lb. to the Buyers.
“On Our Selection.” -By “ Steele Rudd.”
HUMAN POISONS .
and THEIR ANTIDOTE
The Blood in the course
of its circulation be-
comes laden with vari-
ous poisons produced in
the human body by the
mere act of living.
It is the province of the
Kidneys and Liter to
filter and extract these
poisons from the blood.
When the Kidneys and
Liver are unhealthy the
poisons remain in the
body and give rise to
such diseases as
Indigestion
Dyspepsia
Biliousness
Sick Headache
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Lumbago
Backache
Sciatica
Anaemia
General Debility
Blood Disorders
Bright’s Disease
Gravel
Bladder Troubles
All these diseases are
caused by Urinary and
Biliary Poisons being
deposited in the mus-
cles or joints, or being
retained in the blood.
Warner’s Safe Cure,
by its specific action
upon the Kidneys and
Liver, causes these
poisons to be naturally
eliminated and expelled
from the body.
The disease is then
cured permanently.
Explanatory Pamphlet post free
on application to
H. H. Warner & Co.,
Ltd.,
Australasian Branch, Melbourne,
VICTORIA.
5
Explanatory Pamphlet post free
on application to
H. H. Warner & Co.,
Ltd.,
Australasian Branch, Melbourne,
VICTORIA.


TATTERS ALLS.
Addrens s Car© geo. ADAMS.
Hobart.
Anniversary H. Jan. 27.
50,000 Subscribers at 5*
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
.shares in the above.
Name
■£ s t
Address^
Hobart C. Jan. 29.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.— shares in the above.
Name
Address
£ : :
Newmarket H. March 1.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL;
Please allot me shares in above.
Name
Address
Australian C. March 10.
(SPECIAL)
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
N ame
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.
• - . | :
Address “ Tatter sail,” care Creo. A'lazns, Hobart.


Faoetiousness.
A. faeetieus man in a mixed company is as
a shinning light in a dark place. Here and there
Seme cress-grained individual will occasionally
turn ugly when hit by one of his witticisms; but
fortunately, a faeetious remark will call forth a
thousand smiles to each frown it produoes. To
make, or to properly appreciate, a keen verbal
stroke, a man must be in tolerable health. It is
difficult to extract laughter from a chronio dys-
peptic, and a man racked by the agonies of acute
indigestion is not prone to see the point of a joke.
The only exception we can think of which proves
this rule is that prince of punsters, Thomas Hood,
who joked even when dying. Seeing his wife ap-
g roach with a large mustard plaster, Hood looked
rst at the plaster and then upon his own
emaciated form, remarking, “It seems a great
deal of mustard for such a very little meat.”
Mr. Arthur Hill, of 20, Albion-street, Padding-
ton, Sydney, N.S.W., has evidently a vein of
humor in his composition ; but we don’t suppose
it manifested itself much while he was out of
health. “For several years,” writes Mr. Hill,
“ I suffered terribly from chronic dyspepsia and a
sluggish liver, and during that period consulted
some of the best doctors in Sydney; but their
medicines had no more effect on my complaints than
a mustard plaster would have on a wooden leg. ”
Some years ago Mr. Hill chanced to meet
with a booklet containing particulars of cases,
similar to his own, which had been cured by
Mother Seigel’s Syrup, and decided to give that
world-renowned remedy a trial. “The first
bottle wrought a wonderful improvement in my
condition, and by the time I had taken the
contents of the fourth bottle I was thoroughly
cured, and I am going well and strong to-day.’
Such are the words used by Mr. Hill so recently
as June 3rd, 1901.
Mr. Hill is a native of Tasmania, resident, in
New South Wales since boyhood. He is married
and the father of| a family. A big, well-pro-
portioned, robust man, Mr. Hill is now as unlike
a dyspeptic as one could meet in a seven-days’
journey. From his name we take Mr. Hill to
belong to the great British race—that race of
which more than 600,000 of its families use
Seigel’s Syrup as their household remedy, de-
pending upon its aid in all cases of constipation,
indigestion, loss of appetite, and the thousand
and one ills which arise from derangement of the
vital organs and processes, with the best and
happiest results.
Yes; generally speaking, it is safe to assume
that the man who enjoys his little joke, and dots
his discourse here and there with a quaint smile,
is in fairly good health, and needs your appre-
ciation of his humor more than your sympathy.
smoke:
THE
f
df
GBD
X
dsf
INSIST
having this Brand
and no other.
JULIUS HOLD SCHMIDT & CO.
231 Clarence Street, Sydney.
■
KT'C'oe
«|
foEC^
*
9 OFi/Arr/cnoNSc
d
Mm
ORNAMENTAL HAIR
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers a. Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Eoyal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
Evert Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia.
CRAia & AITKEKT,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 George Street, Sydney.
RHEUMALGIA
ie new cure for Rheumatism, Lumbago, Gout, Sciatica,
■Neuralgia, and similar ailments
IS
a lotion compounded from herbs
PURELY AUSTRALIAN.
3s. 6d. TOST FREE.
Rheumalgia Remedy Co., Bathurst,
Wholesale depot for N.S.W. and Q.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
SHIRTS.
For Station and Oat-door work our Silk strip a
Mattalassk and other Unshkinkablk Shi kts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post thro ay ho at
A ustralia.
Patterns and Measurement Forma on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE
Australian
Established 1349.
Mutual Provident Society
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold of
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per oent.
of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
HEAD OFFICE : 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
HMOUtfV.
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4- 108.
H. Hitter,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY,
it®" Send for a
Catalogue.
a
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HH.LIEH, 130 Sussex-streefc.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY,
Buyers o{ Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue. ■
PLAYER’S
WORLD
FAMED
m\
m
I
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
WHOLESALE
Distributing; Agents
New South Wales —
M. RUTTY & GO.,
BYDNEY.
Victoria —
il. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia —
Hart, Lawrence & Co.
Propy. Ld., Adelaide
Western Australia —
Lionel Samson & Son,
Fremantle
Queensland —
Thos. Brown & Sons, Ld.
Brisbane
Burns, Philp & Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania —
Watch or n Bros.,
Hobart
John McKenzie & Co.,
Launceston
New Zealand —
D. Benjamin & Co.,
Dunedin, Wellington
and Christohurch.
df
df
v.v
<?
0
MARTELLS
Highest Grade of Quality Finish.
ID* - Every Pipe Guaranteed.
PRIZE MEDAL, Paris Exhibition, 1900.
Australian Agents:
M. RUTTY & CO., New South Wales.
J. E. HUNT, Victoria.
THOMAS BROWN & SONS, LTD., Queensland.
HART LAWRENCE & CO. PROP. LTD., South Australia.
A. Gr. & E. T. KNOX, West Australia.
“A genuine
old Brandy
made from
Wine.”
Medical Press.
“Particularly suitable
for Medicinal
Purposes.”
The Lancet.
THREE STAR
BRANDY.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s} Seven Prize Medals Awarded.
Circular-Pointed Pens. '
Neither scratch nor spurt, the
points being rounded by a new
process.
Attention is also
drawn to their
new
“GRADUATED
SERIES of PENS.”
Each pattern being made in four degrees
of flexibility and Points.
Ask your Storekeeper for an Assorted Sample Box of either series.
d
r. R RAND AUER & C os
m
mm
Works: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND.
Price 6s.
Post Free.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
Steele Rudd.
N.S.W.
Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, A's; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
8-Spring Sulkies, 17 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and ever}' description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 16 pel
cent more for your requirements.
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Kedfern, SYDNEY
OUll SFKCIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
fd
Stelircred at any Wharf or
<.S.W. ltailways, Station
£lO 10/-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Epithalamium.
In the curve of my arm lying pillowed,
Dear body I whose radiances are
As the splendors of Heaven, as hallowed
As God its immutable star; —
On thee all his brightness has rested,
On thee, till in light thou art drowned,
O my queen and my goddess, snowbreasted,
Flower-lidded, gold-crowned 1
Was One in his beauty as peerless
When the heavens yearned downward to Him,
And He triumphed, transfigured and fearless,
Till the eyes that beheld Him were dim ?
As His breast, where the home of the soul is,
Is thine, and my own eyelids smart;
His temple, the Holy of Holies,
Is here—on thy heart.
Ah, body of woman ! Dead singers
Have sung thee, and others will sing,
But the veil of thy mystery lingers,
A baffling inscrutable thing.
Tho’ thy wealth to the swine it is scattered,
Tho’ in riot and shame thou art sold,
Yet thy diadem rises unshattered
To shine as of old.
O perfect of virginal glory !
What a crown will thy martyrdom gain
When the years shall discover thy story
Of purity withered with pain !
For thou art the pathway to bridge us
To heights whence we never have looked,
And the stains of our lives sacrilegious
By thee are rebuked.
lam earthy, dear Heart! and earth-moulded,
And for little in Heaven I care,
But before thy sweet beauty unfolded
1 have trembled from passion to prayer.
For the lust of the eye faileth, chidden
When the light of that altar appears,
And pure fountains of worship long-hidden
Quench passion in tears.
I have looked on Earth’s evilest places,
I have tasted its bitterest lees,
I have bled with its biting embraces, —
But past and forgotten are these :
No more the corruption shall reach me
Of joy that with sorrow is bought,
Since thou hast come earthward to teach me
Things higher than thought.
v.
PAGAN.
Cape Terawhiti.
The great crowds throng the city,
Yet I can see the spray
That flogs you, Terawhiti,
And turns your brown turf gray ;
And though my heart is swelling
And hot, I hold my breath
To hear your wild songs telling
Of black night-seas and death.
The noisy north wind cuffs you,
Then laughing turns and flies,
The wily south wind bluffs you—
Old headland fierce and wise.
Along your broad breast flashing
The soft seas foam and float,
Or hurl their mad ranks crashing
High on your armoured throat.
And ships slip through the water,
Each eyeing you askance,
Where you stand mailed for slaughter
With rude rock-sword and lance.
The light-house points Pencarrow;
The Brothers’ light burns dim ;
But where the wild Straits narrow,
Unlit you frown, and grim.
Sea-fighter, wrinkled, hoary,
Sing me another song ;
Tell me another story,
That I, too, may be strong.
Eor I must tread Life’s small ways,
Its low ways and its high,
But you look westward always,
And watch the red sun die.
M. L.
QUILP N.
The Street Musician.
A gray old man in worn attire
Stood in the crowded street,
And over roof and tower and spire
Arose his music sweet.
He played as if his soul were set
To strike the crystal stars,
But the silver voice of his clarionet
Was drowned in the roar of cars.
Then turned he snarling on them there
And swift his fingers flew ;
He played a dancing devil’s air—
My heart was dancing too.
N.S.W.
VICTOR J. DALEY.


THIRTY-SECOND REPORT OF
THE iiom SHIM OF QIIEEfISLIO LTD.,
TO BE PBESENTED AT THE
ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS,
TO BE HELD AT
THE BANKING HOUSE, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE,
° n TUESDAY. 21st J A.3NTUA.RY, 1802.
ha i? P leasu f re . if. submitting to the. Shareholders the Thirty-second Half-yearly
Report, with a Statement of the Assets and Liabilities of the Bank, and the Auditors’ Report.
The Net Profits for the Half-year, after deducting Rebate on Bills Interest
on Deposits, providing for Contingencies, payment of all charges and
V^ua^l^ n j °^^ Furniture and Fittings, amounted to 5 ...£8,757 19 3
m t » » • ° 11111 • auiuuil IoU. LU
lo which is to be added the amount carried forward from last Half-year
Giving an available balance of
Which the Directors recommend should be distributed as follows :
To Dividend for the Half-year at the rate of 3 per cent, per annum
~ Dividend duty on above
~ Reserve Fund ”
~ Contingency Account
„ Balance carried forward to next Half-year ”** "*
2,402 4 10
5,790 11
289 10
1,000 0
3,000 0
1,080 1
-£11,160 4 1
8
7
0
0
10
-£11,160
4 1
During the Half-year Branches have been opened at Lowood and Rosewood.
The last of the series of Fixed Deposits under the Bank’s scheme of Reconstruction have now been paid
By Order of the Board,
- EDWD. D. DAY, General Manager.
AGGREGATE BALANCE-SHEET of the ROYAL BANK of QUEENSLAND Ltd.,
___ 31st DECEMBER, 1901.
Capital paid-up
Reserve Fund..
Profit and Loss
LIABILITIES.
.. ..£413,532 10 0
.. .. 53,000 0 0
.. .. 11,160
Bills Payable ..
Liability to Treasury
Notes held in reserve
for
9,090 3 6
33,500 0 0
-£477,692 14 1
~111 ICOCIVC .. OOjUUU U u
Deposits and other Liabilities 877,422 5 11
920,012 9 4
£1,397,705 3 5
ASSETS.
Coin on hand and Cash at
Bankers £167,432 9 0
Bulhon .. .. .. .. 32,866 19 6
Treasury Notes on hand .. 48,866 0 0
Government Stock .. .. 69,918 6 0
_ . _ . £309,083 13 6
Bank Premises, Furniture, &c. .. .. 62 005 17 11
Bills discounted and all other Debts due to
the Bank .. 1,026,615 12 0
£1,397,705 3 6
Dr. PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT, 31st December, 1901.
Cr.
To Salaries, Rent, and other
Expenses at Head Office and
17 Branches 19,465 15 1
„ Interest paid and accrued
on Fixed Deposits, Rebate
and Exchange paid .. .. 10,236 11 6
Balance
£19,702 6 7
11,160 4 1
£30,862 10 8
By Balance brought forward £2,402 4 10
„ Gross Profit for the half-year #J . ... 28,460 510
£30,862 10 8
JiESUUVE FUND.
To Balance
£64,000 0 0
£54,000 0 0
By Balance invested in Government Stock £53,000 0 0
~ Proposed transfer from Profit and Loss
Account 1,000 0 0
£54,000 0 0
Audited and found correct.'
Brisbane, 3rd January , 190%.
THOS. WELSBY, F.1.A.Q.,
GEO. FRED. SCOTT, 8.A., F.I.A.Q.
Auditors.
P. L. GARDE W, Chairman.
EDWD. D. DAY, General Manager.
AUDITORS’ REPORT.
have seen their certificate to the effect that they are in order ' McNab * Solicitors to the Bank, and we
Brisbane, 3rd January, 1903.
THOS. WELSBY, F.1.A.Q,,
GEO. FRED. SCOTT, 8.A., F.1.A.Q.,
Auditors.
WOOL. PRODUCE. GRAIN.
The New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Coy., Ltd., SYDNEY,
A.OT -A.S3 SEX.T.ILM GS- BROKERS ONTLY.
Consignors are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of this Company.
WOOL
COMMISSION FOR SELLING THREE-QUARTERS (g) PER CENT.
WAREHOUSING
"(Including Receiving into Store, Fire Insurance,
Weighing, Lotting, Repacking, Sample Bales,
Advertising, Cataloguing, etc.) on Wool real-
ising over SIXPENCE per lb. the charges
will be
On Wools realising SIXPENCE and over Four-
pence per lb :
On Wools realising FOURPENCE per ib. and
, under
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. 6d. per Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
Perfect System of Weighing.
Way Bills sent on Application.
SALES of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, etc., HELD WEEKLY.
WHEAT.
Every inducement is offered growers to consign their grain for realisation by the Company
Ample accommodation is provided. Three months free storage is allowed. Circulars- are sent when
desired giving cost of railage and full particulars as to Charges, Advances, etc. etc
Sole Agents in New South Wales for
Walter A. Wood Reapers and Binders, Mowers, Rakes, etc
Mitchell’s Harvesters, Strippers, Winnowers, Ploughs, etc.
Alston’s Windmills, Bundle and Sons’ ChafFcutters.
Donald’s Patent Woolpress.
AGENTS POR McDOUG ALL’S SHEEP DIP.
A Policy for the Commonwealth.
PRICE, 6d.; Posted, Bd.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
•X'O DEFY COMPETITIOKT.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&
SPIRITS.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
PLAYS
Catalogue
Free .
French’s Acting Edition.
f
Rare Books
French Novels
Books the Married
Extra Special Catalog ue of
Hooks Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
ELECTRICAL
and
MINING ENGINEERS,
IKIEIBO^
NOTE NEW ADDRESS!
Yaralla Chambers,
109 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE Office: 15 & 17 Queen Street.
DA.JPTO (Lake
(LIMITED).
Xllawarra),
SYDKTEY.
SMELTERS.
REIIN ER S
PRODUCERS
OF
F.NE SILVER.
• ' " ‘ . • -r., • • .
*T" ~ * r T* : SfrgHEas
an
SM
I
y <■ •
mm
MAKERS OF
S. Co, of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
ILLAWAKKA”
.. Bit AND OF, •
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SVI EEP
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to P. S. Mouse, Manager, Tn Smelting Company of Australia
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
of ASSAYS.
Ltd.. DAPTO, N.S.W.


Ex-Premier Turner’s one attempt to drop
into sentiment was a worse failure than even Dry
Dog Reid’s early poems. When the Federal
referendum was taken, Plain George felt called
upon to desert his usual business habits and do
something extra, so he decided that every Vic-
torian who voted on referendum day should
receive a certificate with some kind of beast or
bird on it, to be a precious heirloom in the family
and amuse the baby. There were long delays
about designing the card, and longer delays about
printing it, and now heaps of the deeply-regretted
object are blocking the public offices. The right
persons don’t call for them and the wrong persons
do—persons who think they should have a certifi-
cate because they voted at the last aldermanic
election, or things like that—and the obvious
destination of most of the dusty heap is the
Yarra.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
Wounds Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releasee
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the aukles, round which the skin
mav be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the,disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I (’AN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but 1 WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, l/ljd. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents x ELLIOTT BKOS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
gieen la» el on • ach box. (Regd. copyright).
I'U Try It:
The Only Certain
Mouttache Producer.
gapillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLB AGENTS.
&
The Result
CRAIG & AITKEN. N.S.W. Barber’s Supply
House. 680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
USE
SPOONER’S
SPOONERS
V
*
[mm*
IWTENT LEATHER BOOTS
GLAZED KIDS ft?
, Dt»***l**'
•$"»
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning: and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing's,
Etc. , Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
STRENGTH for the WEAK
and NERVOUS.
“THE MEDICAL MONTHLY,” August, 1893, says : “ The firm of Arthur Hale
and Son, of 105 Regent Street, London, W., has distinguished itself in the develop-
ment of electrical science as a medical agent. By an entirely new method of applica-
tion they have succeeded in producing an Electric Body Belt, which for comfort,
efficacy, and genuineness, is unquestionably far superior to any previous invention."
WE INVITE ALL intending purchasers of our IMPROVED and
PATENTED ELECTRO-GALVANIC BELTS and APPLIANCES
to a FAIR TRIAL and TEST before payment. Call upon us if possible.
If it is not convenient for you to call at our offices, request a friend or an
acquaintance in this city, or one coming from your own town, to do so for
you. We will first show you that our IMPROVED and PATENTED
ELECTRO-GALVANIC BELTS and APPLIANCES are genuine pro-
ducers of a continuous GALVANIC CURRENT by a MOST CRITICAL
TEST with the GALVANOMETER. And if you or your representative
cannot feel the ELECTRIC CURRENT from the GALVANIC
CHAINS in our ELECTRIC BELTS and APPLIANCES, we are will-
ing to place £lO 10s. to the credit of each of any two Charities you may
mention, either in this city or your own town or city.
We most cordially and respectfully invite any PHYSICIAN or
ELECTRICIAN to inspect our IMPROVED and PATENTED
ELECTRO-GALVANIC BELTS and APPLIANCES, which we are
now offering for sale to the AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC.
y
VL
Hale & Son’s Improved and Patented Electro-Galvanic Belts and Appliances are
Nature’s Chief Restorers. Our Plain Belt, our Special Belt and Suspensor for Gentlemen,
and our Abdominal Belt for ladies are guaranteed to be the most Scientific and Genuine
Electric Appliances yet produced. They will speedily relieve and Cure Nervous Exhaus-
tion, Rheumatism, Pain and Weakness in the Back, impart tone and vigor to the whole nervous
system, and make life a pleasure. We invite all sufferers, no matter what the disease or ailment may be,
to call or send for our Free Book, entitled, “ Modern Treatment of Disease by Electricity.”
Consultation Free.
HALE & SON, Medical Galvanists,
105 Regent St., London, W.> and 44 CASTLEREAGrH ST., SYDNEY.
Please mention this paper.
df
PLAIN NOM€ TALK.
embracin'}
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Ohromos. 200 Illustrations. 1200 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1901 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted to any address for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
The Art op Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book op Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted.
Secrets op Ancient and Modern Magic, Is 6d, post free.
Art op Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
Balzac’s Droll Stories, Is 3d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid.
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is 3d.
Pa, Ma and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music complete), Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Metal Working, Brazing, etc., Is 3d.
Send for my Illustrated Big Book
Catalogue—post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
's.
Dr. Clarfeson’S Electric Holt
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Dr. Clarkson’s Re-Invigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
vigour.
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
peptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
parts, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON’SRE-INVIGORATOR
will bring happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and Organs is truly wonderful.
THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC.
Price—ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
CALIi OR WRITE—
CUT
RATE
DRUG STORE,
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS. SYDNEY.
s
XT
LF
mn
NATURES TRUE REMEDIES.
Nature has provided a TRUE REMEDY for Every
Complaint. It is, therefore, unnecessary to contaminate the
System with Mineral Poisons, which leave the System Weak
and Debilitated. Sufferers from Blood and Skin Diseases,
Nervous Affections, Piles, Rheumatism, and Affection of
the Liver and Kidneys, Chest and Lungs, Consumption,
General Debility, Costiveness, Influenza, Melancholia,
can rely on a Cure from these Remedies.
ALFALINE
REMEDIES
Are a guaranteed
Cure for the
above Complaints.
They have Cured
Thousands, and
stood a Test in
Australia for over
20 years. They
have never been
known to fail in
a single case, and
they are purely
NATURE’S
REMEDIES.
MSB
I'!
fiM
s«g|
/
mi
V) i.S®
flits
ii^
g&§§
hfwS?**
xVW^'O
iiliiil
Si?
»s®
««
a;lii
111-
\m
iSlilSl
i 11
m
mmwmm
Mi
ALFALINE
HERBAL
REMEDIES
Have been Awar-
ded several Gold
Medals, and
More Testimon-'
ials than any
known remedy in
Australia.
A Special
Guaranteed Rem-
edy for each
Complaint.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S CHIEF LABORATORY.
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Are a Guaranteed Cure for All Nervous Affections, Weak Spine, Brain and Nerves, Pool-
Memory, Tired Feeling, and General Debility. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Course, 23/6.
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS
Are a PERMANENT CURE for the Most Chronic Blood Diseases, Skin Diseases, Blotohes,
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, etc. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS
Purify the Blood and Build up the Weakest Nervous System. A Guaranteed Care for
ASnemia, Wasting Diseases in Females. A General Blood and Nerve Tonic
for both sexes. Boxes, 6/- and 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE LIVER AND KIDNEY PILLS
Are Guaranteed to Cure Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Heartburn,
Biliousness, and the Liver and Kidneys. BOXES, ONE SHILLING. Posted, 1/6.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills —Guaranteed to
cure Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lum-
bago. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 12s. and
235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage—
This Suspender imparts Strength and Vigor,
at the same time as it supports the parts.
Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills—A
Wonderful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Con-
sumption, Bronchitis and Influenza. Boxes,
posted, 35., 65., 12s. and 235. 6d.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and
effectual Electric currents, unequalled as a
cure for all Spinal and Kidney Affections ;
425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
REMEDIES BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Sufferers can only obtain the Alfaline Herbal Remedies from
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office or Branches, the addresses of
which appear below. Letters should be addressed and Cheques
and Money Orders made payable to Herr Rassmussen’s full
name— Hans Peter Rassmussen, whether you send to his Head
Office or Branches. Register all letters containing money.
All Remedies sent unobserved, packed in plain cover.
Correspondence held confidential.
ALFALINE
PILE POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
ALFALINE
FAT-REDUCING
POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
ALFALINE
HAIR-RESTORER,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/*
CORN CURE, I/-.
OINTMENT, 1/-.
T-'j-.r.-s-'
A USEFUL BOOK
SENT FREE.
Herr Rassmussen’s
valuable book, The
Alfaline Guide to
Health, which con-
tains valuable in-
formation for all
Complaints, and
copies of Testi-
monials, will be sent
free in plain cover,
on application.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S HEAD OFFICE,
(HANS PETER RASSMUSSEN)
547 OEOROE ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The Alfaline Remedies can only be obtained from his Head Office ud Us
INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES :
MELBOURNE—ISO Bourke-st. W. A.—PERTH, 481 Hay-st.
BRISBANE—3O9 Queen-st. KALGOORLIE—Hannan-st.
ADELAIDE—IS Pulteney-st. BOULDER ClTY—Piesse-st.
N.Z. —91 Lambton Quay, Wellington. FREMANTLE Henry-st.
A FREE BOOK SENT
with Advice, Testimonials, and List of
ON APPLICATION,
the ALFALINE REMEDIES.


w
»
AARON’S
Exchange Hotel Co.,
SYDNEY.
The system of paying for Room only and
Meals as required is adopted here.
£3 3s. per Week
9s. per Day
GORDON MARE, Secretary.
W. W. AIKEN, Manager,
28 Years in the Establishment.
FREE
TRADE
PRICES
LOVELY ARTISTIC BROOCHES.
d
fd
f
liAfESI NOVELIY
SwORD
Brooch
Post Free.
Send for
Illustrated
Catalogue.
J EWELLERS & OPTICIANS
90 King ST, Sydney.
Novelty Sword Brooches,
Set with Pearls or Pearls and
Turquoise, 9c., 21/-; 15c., 32/6.
Set with Opals, 9c., 32/6-
Silver, Gold-Plated, set with
Orient Pearls and Turquoise, or
all Turquoise, 10/6 each.
]
Novelty Clef Brooch.
Solid Gold Heart and
Lovers’ Knot Brooch.
21/-.
Set with Pearls or
Pearls and Turquoise.
15c. Gold, Set
with 12 Finest
Diamonds and
2 Rubies,
£9.
Rock Lily Hotel.
Mr. L3OII Houreaux, Proprietor ,
•WISHES to be remembered to his many clients and
'' invites Tourists and Strangers travelling- through
Sydney for the CHRISTMAS HOLIDAYS to pay a visit to
his Establishment noted, for its Curious Picture Gallery,
its Lovely Gardens and Parks.
. . . The Visitor will find . . .
Grand Accommodation,
Also Cood French Cuisine, Large Banqueting
Rooms capable of Accommodating 200 Guests.
. . . Also, PRIVATE ROOMS.
The Establishment is CLOSE TO THE BEACH, which
is noted for Fishing and Bathing ; also NEAR GREAT
SHOOTING COUNTRY.
All Kinds of Private Vehicles to hand at the
Rock Lily Stables.
Coaches leave Manly 10 o’clock, 11.15 a.m. and 4.15 p.m.
FARE—ONE SHILLING.
Rock [ily Hotel, Rarrabeen.
Telephone 134, Manly. Leon Houreaux, Proprietor.
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
Hennessy’s
One Star
and
Three Star
Brandy
has
the
Largest Sale
in
the World.
THE ~~~
OLD BATTLE AXE BRAND.
IllS&aJsfe
' I
XI
W(X*J
,W,. V , I . •
• v, if-'-' vf'.l'
: «*.» »i.'...*/
38t
■ \r ;• V/* *• \
w-s..
>l/''
M
'LI *
«S
|/U
.•roTOS
»Yw'J
LIiHJ
UiU
~.. .jut —,. ,_
MACHINERY
MERCHANTS,
WHOLESALE IRONMONGERS,
And Importers of
Engines, Boilers, Pumps, Wood-
working Machines, Engineers’
Supplies, Blacksmith and
Coachbuilders’ Requisites, Pipes
and Fittings, Boiled Tubes, Cun
Metal and Brassware for Steam
and Water, Household and
Builders’ Ironmongery, Agri-
cultural Implements, Horse
Gears, Chaff Cutters, &o.
m
•C/
Qui
ißi|
BRISBANE
ƒ
d
North Queensland Warehouse: Also at
Stanley & Sturt Sts., Townsville, New Broad St. House, London, E.C.
AGENTS FOR
ROBEY & CO., Portable Steam
Engines.
W. B. HAIGH & CO., Sawmill
Machinery.
GWYNNE’S Centrifugal Pumps.
PEARN’S Manchester Steam
Pumps.
DUPLEX Steam Pumps.
SCOTT’S Steel Mining Ropes.
FRANK VIAL & SON Leather
Belting.
WAUKEGAN Barb Wire.
PLANET JR. Implements.
AER MOTOR Windmills.
KEROSENE OIL ENGINES.
a
%
VS
" M
Montserrat
Lirne-Frait Juice
ďf
The “LANCET” says
“We counsel the public to drink Lime-Fruit Juice
whenever and wherever they list. It is a far more
wholesome drink than any form of Alcohol.”
Montserrat” Lime-Fruit Juice either with water
aerated water is a delightful thirst quencher.
Sole Consignees—
EVANS, LESCHER & WEBB, LONDON.
EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
AGENTS— Elliott Bros., Ltd.; J. Connell & Co., Sydney.
D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.
&
ISZ
HOTELKEEPERS!
MAKE YOUR OWN
yERATED_WATERS,
rPHE “ AUBTRAL” DERATED WATER MACHINE occu-
pies only Four Feet Square, will produce 150 Dozen per day of
Finest Waters (LEMONADE, GINGER ALE, SODAWATER, &c.)
at a Cost below Fourpence per Dozen. This machine
supersedes all others for SIMPLICITY and USEFULNESS, as it
requires no skilled labor to work it.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
ECKERSLEY & SONS,
214-216 Queen-st., MELBOURNE.
I
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, £3 3s. per 'week or apartments may be
secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards.
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted on applica-
tion to The Manager.
A NIB,
A BOTTLE OF INK,
A SHEET OF PAPER and
A PEN CARBON BOOK
makes a complete outfit with
which any
MAN,
WOMAN OR
CHILD
can write a letter, and at the same
time make an exact copy without
leaving the slightest sign of copy-
ing on the original.
%
b “ k ~ **«.
i„di,put~M, , ? e SS(" 0n> ’ ““ “ wIU “™ h “» « tamilj- much money b, it.
There is no man or woman, professional or not, who would not at some time or other find
THE PEN CARBON LETTER BOOK
For fullest particulars, price, etc., write to the sole A Tme and Valued Friend.
Agfents for Australasias E. RICH & CO* LTD., SYDNEY BRISBANE


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vox,. 23.—N0. 1144.
SATURDAY. JANUARY 18, 1902.
Prick 6r>.
AN ANCIENT PARABLE (EVERY PAR-
ABLE OUGHT TO BE ANCIENT) FOR
JAWBONE NEILD. CONROY AND CO.
Once upon a time a Bulldog and a very elo-
quent Cockatoo inhabited the same yard.
Now, the' Bulldog slept pretty constantly, and
the Cockatoo, to take a rise out of him, used to
hop down and whisper in his ear, “ Sool ’em,
Bully ' ” Whereupon Bully would arise and bark
furiously and strain on his chain, only to find
that there was nothing to sool
Bully resolved to see who was fooling him.
So he slept one "day with one eye open. When
the Cockatoo next tried to pull his leg, he grabbed
a big mouthful of feathers from that bird’s tail.
And as Cocky, mounted once more on his
perch, ruefully viewed his bald and 'bleeding tail,
he sorrowfully soliloquised “ What is the matter
with me I —Ah 1 / know • Too mucbC blanky
talk 1 ”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians. ,,
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Walks.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBER
(Paj’able in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £lO 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
IVestralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers , the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
■6l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of\\d. postage , the subscription
to Tiib Bulletin to Queensland will 'be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have Tite Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J P.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. 'The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the '‘Correspondence’’ column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 6000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and, stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in lilaclc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street <f; Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco.— L. E. Lee, Palace Hotel.
South Africa.—A. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. E. 11. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Capetown. Gwelo News Agency
Rhodesia.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 18, 1902.
The Farmer Who Goes to Launceston.
That rather silly Foreign-trade organ, the
Launceston Examiner, broke out recently
into tins wild and curious definition of Pro-
tection ,
The restrictionist theory is essentially lopsided. It
rests on the contention that the more a nation sends
away and the less it receives in exchange the richer it
grows. The application of the theory to the individual
—and a nation is but an aggregation of individuals
would soon dispose of the fallacy. The farmer comes
into Launceston with his wheat, fruit or wool, but he
naturally wants to take something back—it may be
groceries or clothing. Even if he takes money, it is only
to spend at some future date on these articles. The man
who told him he was doing wrong, that he should give
and not take, sell and not b.uy, would be regarded as
having taken leave of his senses. Yet this is the advice
tendered him on a more extended scale by his Protective
friends.
This embodies the Foreign-trader’s most
abortive and most hopelessly one-eyed argu-
ment in a nutshell. His theory is that
because Britain is rich, and because Britain’s
imports exceed its exports, therefore the
way for a country to become rich is for its
imports to exceed its exports. In other
words, because a rich man drinks champagne
at 10s. a bottle, the way for a poor
man to become rich is to drink cham-
pagne at 10s. a bottle. Britain grew
so enormously rich in days gone by that
it lent money to half the earth, and
now its dividends are constantly coming in
from abroad. It got the money to lend,
partly by the plunder of the Spanish treasure-
fleets in the days of Elizabeth ; partly by
the plunder of India which it looted so re-
morselessly, in the days when John Company
shook the pagoda tree, that that country is
supposed to have yielded England some five
hundred millions in cash loot alone; and
partly by restricting its imports under a Pro-
tective system, exporting more than it im-
ported, and lending out the surplus to the
world at large on good security.
* * * *
An excess of imports naturally followed in
course of time ; that excess represented the
interest on those foreign investments. Aus-
tralia, having no foreign investments, can’t
have an excess of imports unless it borrows
the money to pay for them. Being loaded
with foreign debt, it can’t even make its
imports and exports balance unless it keeps
adding the interest to the debt. It must, by
increasing exports or by compulsorily re-
ducing imports, send away fully £14,000,000
worth more goods annually than it receives,
merely to pay interest and avoid getting
more deeply into a state of liability. If it
wants to also pay off its foreign burdens at
the rate of, say, £5,000,000 per annum,
then it must send away fully £19,000,000
worth annually more than it receives. If,
when its foreign debt is paid off, it hopes to
become a country like Britain, with a great
income from foreign investments, then it
must go on exporting more than it im-
ports, and invest the surplus in foreign
securities until, it attains that desirable
situation.
* * * »
Britain acquired a large proportion of its
outside capital by sheer plunder—but not
nearly all. All through the years when
London was wresting the commercial supre-
macy of the world from Amsterdam, and
capturing the world’s shipping trade from
the old Dutch rulers of the sea, and becoming
the world’s banker and money-lender, Britain
sent away more goods than it received—for
many years nearly twice as much as it
received. The difference came back in
foreign Government bonds and foreign
mortgages, debentures, title-deeds of land,
and other things that don’t figure among
imports. Britain only started to buy more
than it sold when the income from these
world-wide investments grew large, and
that income paid for its extra purchases.
Ihe United States is now where Britain was.
It exports nearly twice as much as it im-
ports, and it does this solely by restricting
its imports per medium of a heavy
protective tariff; but the difference isn’t
loss. It came back first in the shape of
the United States’ own Government and
railway and other securities repurchased
from foreign holders. It came back
later in the shape of foreign securities
bought up by the States, and Washington’s
country begins also to have a mortgage on
the earth. The mortgage doesn’t appear
among the country's imports, any more than
£4,000,000 worth of bonds appeared among
N.S.W.’s exports when it borrowed that sum
last year; so foolish and hopelessly ignorant
persons, like the Launceston Examiner,
assume that the surplus ’of exports is so
much money thrown away under ,a ruinous
policy. By-and-bye, when there is a huge
income coming in from these foreign invest-
ments, the United States will also, probably,
buy more than it sells. Australia began at
the other end. It bought more than it sold
at the outset of its career, which was good
for the M‘Millan tribe, but disastrous for
the country at large, and it paid the differ-
ence, Micawber fashion, by exporting its
I O U till the Commonwealth owes some
£370,000,000 abroad, publicly and privately,
it is a poor disappointed place, grinding
out its soul to earn the interest for British
and American capitalists, exporting more
than it imports because the surplus is needed
to pay interest on its debts, and still bor-
rowing.
• * # *
The situation maybe condensed thus :
, O) A ?° L 1 may export more than it imports (like
the United States now, and like Britain years aero)
abroaT iS growins rich and is investing the surplus
(2) It may do it (like Australia), because it is poor and
loaded with debt, and the surplus exports go to pav
interest on its foreign burdens and constitute a slavish
tribute to a foreign Cohen.
(3) It may export still more largely, and import still
less, because (unlike Australia), in addition to paying the
interest on its foreign debts, it is paying off the principal
as well. 1
(4) It may import more than it exports, because (like
Britain now, and like the United States, probably, some
years hence), it is very rich, and the income from its
foreign investments pays for its extra purchases. Also, it
may carry the process too far (as Britain is now doing)
and begin to eat up the principal as well as the interests ’
(5) Or it may import more than it exports, because (like
Australia in previous years), it is running into debt for
its surplus purchases.
* » » *
The Foreign-trader’s profoundly silly
theory is that the farmer who exports £lOO
worth of wool or vegetables to Launceston,
should import from Launceston £lOO
worth of groceries, &c., or £lOO worth
of money to be spent in groceries later on ;
and, failing that, he is the victim of an un-
sound economic system. It is such a theory
as no one would expect to find outside a
lunatic asylum. If there is a huge mortgage
on his property in Launceston, as there
is on Australia’s property in England,
then it is much better that he should
take £lOO worth of produce in and only
fetch £5O worth of goods out, leaving
the other £5O to pay the interest on
his mortgage and reduce the principal. If
there is no mortgage on his property, it is
better, if he hopes to have a competence in
his old age, that he should take in £lOO
worth and only bring back £5O worth, and
leave the balance behind him on fixed
deposit. That represents his foreign
investment. It was largely by taking
£lOO worth of goods into Launceston
and only bringing £5O worth of clothes
and groceries back that Britain grew
rich, and the United States is now growing
rich after the same fashion. It was by the
same process that, in bygone years, the United
States ceased to be a nation loaded with
foreign debts, and it is only by the same
process of exporting vastly more than it
imports that Australia can hope to reach a
similar desirable goal. Of course, a time may
come when the same farmer may take
£lOO worth of goods into Launceston,
and draw £5O interest on his invest-
ments there, and fetch back £l5O
worth of goods by way of an excess of
imports. But that is a thing of the future.
If he starts with the excess of imports, or if,
with a mortgage recorded against him at
Launceston, his imports and exports balance,
in time a bailiff will come out from Laun-
ceston and eat him up.
*»* * .
If Australia is to avoid getting deeper and
deeper into debt till it ends in insolvency,
and, still more, if it hopes to reduce ever so
slightly its crushing foreign burdens, it
must increase its exports by about
£11,000,000, as compared with the figures of
1900 ; of it must reduce its imports by a
similar amount. With low wool prices and
a diminution of the wool supply, with bad
harvests, drought, tick, rabbits, a chroni-
cally barren country, the increasing competi-
tion of Argentina—which is swamping the
British market with almost every kind of pro-
ducewe have to sell, with the fall in the value
of metals, and all manner of other difficulties,
there appear no prospects of materially
increasing exports, so a great reduction of
imports is the only alternative. That is
what Protection is for, and no Foreign-
trader has offered any device consistent with
his creed which promises to produce the
same effect. During 1900, the Common-
wealth added about £11,000,000 to its
foreign debts through a too-close adherence
to the spirit of the parable about the farmer
who went into Launceston, and the inevit-
able end of that sort of thing is a disgrace-
ful national insolvency. The Bulletin in
this matter, wants to follow a wise British
policy and a wise British tradition, and to do
as Britain did when it was circumstanced, to
some extent, as Australia is now. Ho man
and no country ever grew even moderately
affluent by following the example of the
Examiner’s alleged farmer who went into
Launceston.
Barton’s Treachery.
Prime Minister Barton, without consulting Par-
liament, has taken it upon himself to authorise
. Gnlistmenfc of a fresh contingent for the
African war ; and, under the auspices of the Com-
monwealth, men are now being enrolled in all the
btate capitals. It is impossible for Parliament, if
it has any sense of its own powers, rights, and
dignities, to pass over this impudent usurpation
of its authority. The case is made worse by the
fact that the Prime Minister stood deliberately
pledged to take no such action during the session’s
adjournment. In order to curry favour with
Chamberlain, he has flouted Parliament and
treacherously broken his faith, relying on the
Jingo vote on both sides of the House to condone
ins usurpation.
* * • *
The act is disgraceful to the Prime Minister •
its surroundings make it despicable. There was
apparently no need to send a contingent ; there
was certainly no militarv need. All the informa-
tion represents the Boers as at their last gasp.
They cannot now have more than some 10 000
men in the field, opposed to a British army
which still numbers over 200,000. There is
no longer any pretence that “the Empire
is in danger.” There is noecause to foster further
excesses of the military spirit, or to attract fresh
levies of men away from the peaceful avocations
upon which Australian prosperity must be based.
The contingent is sent to curry favor with Cham-
berlain, who uses it to silence British discontent.
Its whole function {s to prove, on Jingo platforms
and in the Jingo press, that Australia is still in
sympathy with the war, and in sympathy with
the Ministry that made the war. It is but a
pawn in the game of Imperial politics. Every
expression of British discontent, every British in-
clination to concede honourable terms of peace to
the Boers, has been met with the assertion that
“the colonies would be indignant.” Australia
has been used as a tool to gain Jingo ends ; and
the man who has sold his country to Judas is—
Prime Minister Barton.
* * • *
The manoeuvres in connection with this contin-
gent belong to. the shabbiest coulisses of politics.
Mr. Barton did not dare to spontaneously offer
troops. But, apparently, he let it be known that
if the British Ministry asked for troops they
would be sent. And then —-before or after these
private cables behind the scenes?—he adjourned
Parliament in unexpected haste, and immediately
it was out of the way he undertook to send the
contingent.
* * » *
Where was the urgency? Parliament meets
this week; the men will not be ready to depart
till possibly a month hence. Why could not the
Premier have laid the matter before Parliament
and got Parliamentary sanction ? Why did he
not do so ? Because he feared the issue of debate;
or because lie feared that in debate things might
be said which would conclusively show that
Australia took the step unwillingly ; or because,
believing that Parliament would sanction the
sending of the contingent, he chose to flout and
insult it and usurp its authority so as to pose as
the strong man who rose needlessly to an emer-
gency that did not exist ? It is a blot on Premier
Barton’s character that when two courses are
open to him —one straight and honest, one tor-
tuous and dishonest—he inclines to choose the
latter. He may call the choice diplomacy. The
Bulletin calls it degradation.
* » * *
The incident cannot be passed over. It is not
a question of whether or not a new contingent
should be sent. It is a question whether the
authority of Parliament as the people’s repre-
sentative should be maintained; or whether the
Ministry should decide and act, and Parliament
should crawl after to do its bidding. An
autocratic monarch could hardly claim more
power than Premier Barton has exercised. The
whole history of Parliamentary institutions in
Britain shows that two rights have been most
jealously guarded by the people’s representatives
—the right to vote supplies, and the right to con-
cur in the levy of troops. Chiefly by attacking
those rights one British monarch lost his crown,
and another his crown ajk! his life. The present
British monarch would never for one moment dare
to authorise the enlistment of troops without the
consent of Parliament. Yet the power which the
British monarch does not possess is assumed by the
Australian Prime Minister !
* * » «
Tins sending of troops is an insult to every
member of the Commonwealth Parliament.
Io condone it is to establish, at the outset of
Australian national history, a precedent capable of
being applied to the very worst uses. Mr. Barton
has not the scintilla of an excuse. If the occasion
was urgent, he should have convoked Parliament;
it was not urgent, and he should have waited till
1 arliament met. That he, who is at the head of
a Government sworn to uphold the Constitution,
should deliberately break his pledges in order to
defy tne Constitution, would seem a thing in-
credible. But the thing has happened. We have
been used to see State Governments, relying on a
supple majority, exercise Parliamentary functions
with insolent bravado.. But the Commonwealth
1 arliament is no field in which to perpetuate the
worst legacies of the past. To arrange for the
despatch of the contingent behind the back of
I arliament is an act of political treachery; and it
is by a not uncommon irony of events that the
politician who has been called “Australia’s
noblest son ” plays the part of traitor.
The Curse of the Editor.
This is the curse, and the curser signs himself
“ tf.Gr.”:
Dear Bulletin.— -The bane of modern literature is
journalism. The editor sits on the soul of the writer like
the Old Man of the Sea on the shoulders of the willing
Sinbad. And the worst of it is that the dividing line
between journalism and literature grows narrower and
more nebulous every day ; and there is scarcely a work
of fiction, history, science or any other subject published
now which has not previously appeared in the pages of
some periodical. This means that the work is not that of
one man, but at least two. Very frequently, it is the
work of many. The writer submits his copy and it has to
satisfy the sub-editor, firstly, and the editor secondly.
Incidentally, it has to satisfy the proprietor of the peri-
odical, and, in satisfying him, it has also to satisfy the
shopkeepers who advertise their wares in his publication,
the readers who subscribe to it, the politicians who in-
fluence ifc or whom it influences, and, in some cases,
the personal friends of the proprietor who have his ear
through the club or through society. The work of the
literary man of to-day is no more his own work than is a
composite photograph of a dozen individuals the portrait
of huii whose image was first cast on the plate. Not even
the giants of modern literature can withstand these in-
fluences. Who is there stronger in literary popularity
than Kipling? Yet see how at least one big Aus-
tralian daily paper, purchasing his story through
the . syndicate which retailed it as a tradesman
retails onions, emasculated it in consideration for
its mealy-mouthed readers. While the development
of the journal, using the term in its widest sense, has
been a source of income to the smart writer, the mediocre
writer, even the good writer, of to-day, it affords no place
for the genius. Granted that some journals have done
much towards the encouragement of literature, it has
been literature within limitations. What writer could
send to the Sydney Morning Herald or the Melb. Argus
fiction, even of transcendent merit, reflecting on the pro-
pertied classes ? Would they accept the most brilliant
diatribe against Protection ever written, if allusions
aspersing cant and respectability were made incidentally ?
* * * *
And the worst of it is that the publisher, never verv
sure of his own judgment, is growing chary of accepting
anything - that has not already earned success in the
columns of an ephemeral publication. The. books of the
present day are almost entirely reprint matter from
newspapers. In a few years, it would appear that they
will be wholly so. Where, then, will there be an opening
for the literary genius? What present-day newspaper
would have published nine-tenths of Shelley’s work ?
‘‘ The Skylark” might have had a chance somewhere, but
Queen Mab” would serve only to adorn a thousand
waste-paper baskets. Milton’s masterpieces would have
been unheard of had printing been in' its present
state of development. Dryden, Byron, Ciiaucer,
all the great men of letters who stand out in history,
would have left no legacy to posterity. And Shake-
speare himself ? We can picture him taking the lift to
the office of the modern editor, a roll of manuscript tinder
his arm and trepidation in his footsteps. He has to wait
m the ante-room, brushing the tobacco-ash from his
doublet, and trying to make himself look more respect-
able, so as to be a fitting attribute of the office of the
gigantic journal. At last a boy leads him to the great
man, busy with a blue pencil making some of Wycher-
ley’s copy fit for the eyes of the British matron. Sud-
denly he looks up. “Oh, yes—yes,” he begins. “ you’re
Mr.—er—er— Shakesblot. Take a seat”—they are
always polite, these editors—“ I have been busy since
Vou left that last play of yours, 1 Hamfat,’ I think vou
called it. Eh? Oh, yes ! ‘Hamlet.’ Yes! Here is the
copy. It is very good work for a beginner, but I must
tell you frankly, Mr. Shakeshot, that no paper would
think of publishing it in its present form. To begin with,
it is far too long. I would have cut it down myself only I
could not spare the time. It requires to be compressed
into about a couple of columns. Get the points, the
points, Mr. Shotgun, and cut out all the superfluous
verbiage. Judicious condensation is the keynote of
literature. People have no time to read through
the whole length of what you have given them.
You have to remember that people read newspapers as
they come in the train in the morning, and although this
sort of copy could, of course, be used only in our Satur-
day issue, it would only aggravate people to have such a
mass put before them. Judicious condensation, Mr.
Siiortiiair, judicious condensation !
* * * *
“ Then, in spots, you are a trifle coarse. lam not prudish
myself, but I may tell you it came upon me somewhat as
a surprise to find you putting such remarks into the
mouth of—urn, what is her name ?— Ophelia ; such phrases
as she uses in the third act. While a little latitude may
be allowed to male characters and elderly females at
times, it is indiscreet, to say the least of it,' to make the
heroine—an innocent young girl—reveal an Acquaintance
' with certain subjects. Now, here is another thing, Mr.
Siiockspook, if you will pardon my saying so, in which
you show that you are a beginner in literary work. Your
hero, Hamlet, has a soliloquy. He begins ‘To be, or not
to be? That is the question.’ Now you will see that
those last words are quite redundant. ‘To be, or not to
be’ is ample. You go on: ‘Whether ’tis nobler in the
mind to suffer the slings and arrows of outrageous for-
tune.’ Now, you will observe that you have made a
slight blunder there. In one case you have referred to
the missile and the other to the engine of destruction
itself. It should be either ‘the slings and bows’ or
‘the stones and arrow's.’ I think ‘slings and bows’
would do nicely. The next sentence continues:
‘or to take arms against a sea of troubles.’ Now,
how can anybody take arms against a sea? I ask
you yourself. The thing’s ridiculous. Your image
is badly twisted there. ‘ Build up breakwaters against a
sea of troubles.’ That is much better. ‘ And, by oppos-
ing, end them.’ Now, that’s very obscure, and," bv the
way, the whole play is obscure. That is one of the faults
you must watch when you are cutting it down. Make it
clear and consecutive, and, if I w-ere you, I’d distribute
the murders over the whole of the acts instead of havin''
them all in a heap at the end. The next few words of
this Hamlet infer that he is meditating suicide, I will
admit, but it might be made clearer. Then, while there
are no glaring literary or grammatical faults about the
rest of this soliloquy, the way Hamlet rails at law and
office and things generally respected is distinctly objec-
tionable to right-thinking persons. These sentiments
here : ‘ The proud man’s contumely,’ ‘ the pangs of dis-
pised love,’ ‘ the insolence of office ’ —those are the
sort of expressions one hears among the Anarchists of
the Yarra Bank and the Domain. Apart from questions
of policy, you must remember that this hero of yours
Mr. Siiakespike,, is supposed to be a prince, and would
scarcely give expression to such ultra-radical remarks. Of
course, it is not an acting play. Youyourself mustrecoo-nise
no manager would think of staging this class of work
and it is only journals which devote themselves to the
encouragement of literature like our own, which would
consider the publication of it for a moment. My advice
is to keep your work free from coarseness and obscurity •
nund your grammar and your English—you will find Mr’
Fitchew's ‘Deeds that Won the Empire’ excellent
models of style—and have some consideration for the
feeling of the public. I notice, for instance, that you


make one of your grave-diggers say things that are
disrespectful to the Empire. Of course, he is supposed
to be a Dane, but no respectable paper could let pro-Boer
sentiments like those find a place in its columns. Al-
ways strive, too, to be original. I see many evidences of
the influence of Kipling in this play, and, as for the
character of Ophelia, one would think that she was
taken bodily from Ibsen. It is well to study these
authors, Mr. Bookshock, but beware of following too
closely in their style. Still, you show considerable
promise, and I think we shall be able to make something
out of you. Bring me back that play of yours by Friday,
and remember—not more than two-columns-and-a-half at
the outside ! Eh! Jimmy, what’s that? ‘ The Blue Boluses
for Bald Bounders people have taken a page for Saturday.’
‘ln that case, Mr. Shockbeer, you’ll have to cut
4 Hamlet ’ down to a eolumn-and-three-quarters. Good-
bye ! Who ? The secretary of the Employers’ Union.
Show him in.”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Vanishing 1 Federal Revenue.
The Federal customs and excise tariff has now been
in existence for nearly three months, but during
that time it has been gradually fading away
through constant concessions to the gang of
foreign importers. It was a rather heavy tariff
in October; a lighter one in November ; a still
lighter one in December. Even now only half
the list of duties has been gone through, and there
will probably be further reductions in January
and February. But, so far as things have gone,
the yield from the tariff has been: —
Being at the rate of
about
October (about) .. £842,000 .. £10,104,000 per annum
November ~ .. 760,060 .. 9,120,000 ~
December „ .. 672,000 .. 8,064,000 ~
This result arises largely through putting articles
on the free list so as to prevent local industries
growing up which will interfere with the foreign
importing man’s business. The "yield is now down
to about the figure obtained from the old State
tariffs, and if the reducing process goes any fur-
ther the result will be something approaching
financial disaster to almost all, if not all, the
States. The Bulletin doesn’t do the M‘Millan
gang the injustice of supposing that it cares much
what happens to the States so long as its importing
business is preserved, but the matter is a serious
one for the country. Already all the States are
losing except New South Wales, which gains
something; and New South Wales granted old
age pensions on the strengthof the anticipated extra
revenue, which is now being so rapidly whittled
away, so its prospects are about as bad as the rest.
It is time some one made a firm stand against the
selfish horde of agents for absentee firms who are
running the country’s finances on the rocks.
With the abolition of the border tariffs, and the
loss of the large revenue derived therefrom, there
must be a heavy tax on foreign imports—heavy
enough to wreck the great importing monopoly—
if the country is to raise sufficient money to go on
with. It is a choice between the Australian
nation and the importers—mostly agents for
absentee merchants—and The Bulletin reckons
that the nation is of more account than the im-
porters.
♦-
A Red Australia—an Interview.
“There certainly will be trouble when Parlia-
ment meets,” said a prominent Federal politician
to The Bulletin last week. “ In this contingent
business Mr. Barton has made all the mistakes
possible. He has, by accepting the dictation of
that cheeky bounder, Henniker Heaton, dragged
down the dignity of liis position as Premier of
Australia : that is a cause of offence to many.
He has, in sending the contingent, adopted every
device to surround it with grudging and un-
gracious conditions (though, as a matter of solemn
fact, the one weighty reason in his mind for its
despatch is to keep him in office); and thus has
seriously offended the Jingoes whom he wished to
placate. He has broken his solemn promise to
the Labor party that no contingent should be
sent without the direct approval of Parliament,
and thus suggested to that party the very serious
question whether he is a man who should be left
in a position to make—and break—other compacts.
I should not be at all surprised, nor at all dis-
pleased, to see a union of these forces to inflict on
the Government, if not a defeat, at any rate a
very serious warning.
“A defeat? Well, no; I don’t think a defeat
is likely. It is difficult to suggest an alternative
team. If it were possible to pass a vote of censure
on Mr. Barton without involving the loss of all
his colleagues, that might very probably happen.
As it is, I don’t hope for anything more than a
debate and a division, which will say very plainly,
‘ Don’t do it again.’ Anyhow, whatever happens,
the Kanaka and the Aliens Immigration Restric-
tion Acts are now safe ; and any compact with the
Labor party in regard to support in return for
those concessions didn’t cover the contingency of
a distinct breach of faith. So there could be
worse things than a defeat of the Government.
“Personally, I’m just as much against a Red
Australia as a Black Australia. I'consider that
there are just as grave social and economic dan-
gers, just as great a threat to Liberty, in the
spread of a lurid militarism as in the spread of a
black race over this continent. Australia’s con-
tributions to this war have so far involved the loss
of many good citizens, the physical and moral
wreck of many others, and the general unsettling of
the national mind. We want peaceful and quiet
devotion to the industrial and political problems
of a young nation. The South African war has
infected a section of the people with a riotous
militarism, which has been just as dangerous to
democratic sentiment as to industrious habit. All
the Labor members do not think quite at one with
me in that; but they were unanimous in requiring
from Mr. Barton a pledge against any contingent
being sent without Parliamentary sanction ; and I
think they will be unanimous in protesting against
that pledge being shamelessly broken.”
O v
The Strange Man in the House.
Apart from the works of Marcus Clarke,
“ Rolfe BoLDREWOOD,”and a group of short-story
writers like Dyson, Becke, Lawson, and
“Banjo” Paterson, Australian fiction consists
largely of the young girl’s squalid tale about the
strange man who broke into the house or else way-
laid her outside. Most of the time the tale con-
cerns an alleged “ assault ” by the alleged man on
the alleged virtue of the complainant. This
writer once counted up in one year nearly a hun-
dred cases in various parts of Australasia, where
the small female was proved to have invented her
tale of assault, and falsely identified some man or
other as the assailant, and finally admitted, when
things went against her, that the narrative
was merely a frowsy romance of the worst
description. And in no case did anything
happen to the dreadful person, apparently
because the powers that be sympathise
with the frowsy romancer. Therefore the
Australian girl’s story of the strange man
that was in the house has come to be re-
garded by ail sensible people as a subject of
doubt and suspicion, no matter what that man
was alleged to be doing there. The latest ver-
sion of him —at Towitta, in South Australia—is
a trifle more tragic than the average. Towitta
is one of those dreary farming districts where
the “boundless resources of this great country ’’
blow past incessantly in the form of dust, and
where the inhabitants live by trying to wrest a
scanty crop from the shifting soil, and are as
poor as most Australians are who don’t live
directly or indirectly on loan moneys. There
the strange man (who may have been real for
once despite his usual unreality) came into the
house of the Sciiippan family at night and cut the
throat of Bertha Schippan, aged 14. The parents
were absent, and only Mary Schippan, aged 24, and
Bertha slept in the house. Two young brothers
slept in a building 80 yards away. Mary
Schippan was awakened by the strange man
coming into the house, and ran to her brothers for
assistance, and one of them ran for more assis-
tance, and after much miscellaneous running they
brought back the most adjacent policeman, who
found sister Bertha dead. She had been killed
with a knife belonging to the family, which knife
had been afterwards put away in the safe. There
were bloodstains on Mary Schippan’s clothes, and
the blaclc-tracker (whose capacity for tracking, in
some cases, doesn’t amount to much now that he
no longer finds his daily bread and his daily bear
by the game) emphatically denied that there had
been any strange man. Moreover, no unknown
person was seen making away out of the district.
There was no visible object, either, about
the alleged man’s conduct—neither robbery
nor anything else. And in the end the
coroner’s jury brought in a verdict _ that
Mary Schippan had murdered her sister.
Mary admitted to the usual immorality with
a young man, though whether there was any
connection in the jury’s mind between her
moral character and the murder the jury didn’t
say. Of course the verdict of a coroner’s jury
amounts to little. The strange man may yet
eventuate, and his tracks may simply have been
trodden out by the local inhabitants. But, ev.en if
he does transpire in this case, it make 110 differ-
ence in the fact that he is a myth in nine instances
•out of ten. And he is a peculiarly Australian
myth—like the bunyip, and much less poetic than
that phantom of’the aboriginal imagination.
♦
The Surreptitious Groggist.
The discovery of an illicit still at Ryde, N.S.W.—
a still which evidently carried on business upon a
generous scale—does not seem to. have yet sug-
gested to the Federal excise authorities the necessity
of taking any unusually vigorous action with
regard to the manufacture and sale of duty-free
spirits. No effort, indeed, seems to have been
made to trace to its distributing centres the
liquor turned out from the Ryde still. Yet in this
business the receiver and retail distributor of
liquid devilment to the general public is certainly
as bad as the manufacturer, and as worthy of
punishment. Admitted that the maker of potato
mash spirit is, in the first instance, respon-
sible for rendering the crime of the other
person possible, yet the retailer who takes
in the poisonous stuff, and doctors it with
still more poisonous drugs, and then passes it
on to the public, is at least equally criminal. At
present, quite one-quarter of the spirit consumed
in N.S.W. is the vicious product of illicit
stills and weird chemicals. The loss to the
revenue is enormous : the damage to the public
health still more serious. Out-back from Ryde,
towards the Newcastle district, there are said to
be a score or more distilleries planted in the
gullies. The orchards and farms supply the raw
products for making alcohol, and the manufacture
and sale of a ghastly kind of white spirit is
ridiculously easy. The Northern rivers’ districts
of N.S.W. would yield another splendid harvest
to the excise officers, if thoroughly explored.
Doubtless the same conditions prevail in other
districts and in other States, of which the present
writer cannot speak. If the Federal Government
were to reduce the excise duty on spirits by 25 per
cent., and at the same time increase by 30 per
cent, the staff of excise detectives, it would
probably find the changes profitable to the
revenue. It is the practical impossibility, at pre-
sent excise rates, of giving a decent nip of good
honest whisky or brandy in a threepenny-bar that
acts so much to the encouragement of the man in
the hills with a little mash-tub and a disreputably
dirty worm. But, after all, the only complete,
and at the same time the altogether desirable,
remedy for the illicit distiller is nationalisation
of the drink traffic. If the State had sole control
of the people’s pubs, it could be absolutely trusted
not to purchase illicit stuff, and when his
medium of distribution was gone, the secret
distiller would go also. The nationalisation of
the drink business is indeed so full of tempting
promise that it is marvellous that no enterprising
politician has started to stump the country with
it as a platform. The direct dividends would go
far towards paying off the public debt, and the
indirect benefit in the shape of economy in gaols
and insane asylums would be enormous.
Wanted, Australian Factory Legislation
What are called by the Tory press “the evil
effects ” of Victorian factory legislation continue
to obtrude on the public notice of Australia.
When Victoria embarked on a rational system of
Protection it had in view the raising of the
local wage rate to a decent subsistence level;
and, to prevent manufacturers from reaping the
benefits of its fiscal system without sharing them
with their employees, it passed factories legislation
providing, among other things, for a minimum
wage. Now that inter-State Freetrade has come,
the Victorian jam manufacturer (among others)
finds that he must compete with rivals in N.S.
Wales and Tasmania, who do not have to pay a
minimum wage and who are able to produce
more cheaply by cutting into the cost of
labor. He has no natural advantages to
compensate for this handicap ; his fruit costs
him quite as much, if not more, than it costs
his N.S.W. or Tasmanian rival, and his fuel
is certainly dearer owing to the scarcity of
the local coal supply. It is obvious, then, that
either the Victorian manufacturer will have to be
relieved of the necessity of paying fair wages, or
his rivals will have to be compelled to conform to
his wages standard, or he and they must be simul-
taneously raised to a still better standard.
State legislation, or Federal legislation founded on
a permission from the States, would achieve the
object in view and provide a way out of
the difficulty. To force the factory-employees of
Victoria back into a low-wage state would be dis-
tinctly opposed to the National Protection policy
which all Australia has now adopted for all time.
A determined effort should be made to extend
the Victorian factory minimum-wage law
(with improvements and additions) through-
out Australia preferably by Federal legis-
lation. Possibly Freetrade jam-makers will
weep bitterly at the proposal and see in it
another Victorian outrage on New South Wales,
and scream out violently in defence of the right to
sweat their employees, but the benefit gained will
be worth the pain of trampling on these people’s
feelings. Somebody’s feelings must be trodden
on whether the country progresses or retrogrades.
It is only a question of treading for the best pur-
pose on the feelings of the smallest number.
♦
Reckless Proposition by an M.L.A.
This item has been discovered on the notice-
paper of N.S.W. Assembly:
Mr. J. 0. L. Fitzpatrick to move, That, in the opinion
of this House, the system at present in vogue of treating
as ordinary revenue moneys received from the
sale, by auction or otherwise, of the public estate, is one
that should be immediately discontinued ; and this
House urges that all future receipts from this source
should be set apart as the nucleus of a fund from which
to meet the State’s obligations in regard to interest on
the National Debt, and for the purpose of meeting as far
as possible, the cost of extending our railway system for
the benefit of the producers.
A year or two ago Chanter, M.L.A., had a much
better notice on the board, to the effect that
the land revenue should be set aside for the
building of public works only. He spent about
a year trying to get a chance to discuss it, being
blocked bv every device that the House knew of.
The Assembly is full of theoretical economists
who live on vague and flapping denunciations of
Ministerial extravagance, but the man who pro-
poses a definite act of economy which may cost a
little money is a beast, and becomes the most
unpopular person in the House. When Chanter
got to his notice he was promptly ruled out of
order on the motion of that sour and snarling
person Joe Cook. Then he put another notice on
the paper, but never reached it up to the time he
left State politics. Now if he had only put on
the paper such a proposition as this —
In the opinion of this House it is necessary to adopt a
system of wise and liberal economy, combined with a
judicious expenditure of loan moneys in developing the
great resources of the country and fostering the producing
interests on which its prosperity depends.
That is the kind of stuff which appeals to the
local economist. It is as vague and non-committal
as the flapping of washing on a line, yet there is a
comforting sound about it, and it warms the pit
of the stomach in a manner of speaking.
Re General Buller.
The version given by London Express of Buller’s
heliographic message “ advising ” —or rather not
advising— White to surrender Ladysmith is
likely enougli to be correct. What else could any
man in his senses say under the circumstances?
No one has even tried to suggest an alternative
form of words, and all the fuss that has been made
about the matter simply suggests that there is
something behind that has been carefully kept
out of the public view. Whether Buller is really
the sort of incompetent fool he is said by a certain
set to have been is a question that will not be
settled till he and some others are in their graves ;
but, even now, criticism can do something to clear
away some of the mist that envelopes them. No
one can quite foresee what will result from telling
the truth. Despatches published in January,
1900—
showed that the sudden abandonment by Sir Redvers
Buller of his original plan of campaign, by which he was
to advance direct on Bloemfontein and Pretoria was the
result of the interference of Sir Alfred Milner.
So that the wonderful plan that gave Roberts all
his alleged victories was not his own at all, but
was stolen practically without acknowledgment
from Buller, who was prevented by Milner
from using it himself. It certainly wasn’t much
of a plan ; but such as it was, had Roberts been
a generous man he would have stood aside as
other seniors— Hardinge and Outram, for in-
stance —have done, and let Buller get the credit
of carrying out his own idea. No doubt Buller
felt sore at such a slight. It has been openly
stated, also, that he was forced to incur theColenso
and Spionkop failures, against his own judgment,
by Roberts’ positive orders. Buller’s real
offence is connected with the personal relations
between him and the Roberts’ gang—for there is
a Roberts’ gang, of which Kitchener and Pole
Oarew are the chiefs.
4.
S.M. Herald, in reviewing the work of the
Federal Parliament, which is only half-way
through its first session, wants to know why the
inter-State Commission isn’t appointed, the High
Court established, the Defence Bill passed, and
other important matters done. This is a favorite
argument in the tents of Calico Jimmy. Its own
blessed idol was in office for over five years and had
only one State to attend to, and he never passed
the Local Government Bill and other important
measures for which the State is still hungering.
In fact, he did less in five years than the Federal
Parliament has achieved in six months.
4
The Australians who are now rushing to South
Africa (some 300 permits have recently been
granted and applications are still pouring in)
under the impression that the war is near an end,
and that when it ends work and high wages will
be in abundance, should remember that there are
about 50,000 irregular troops in the field, and that
the moment hostilities cease these will be thrown
out of their job. In addition there are refugees in
all the coastal towns and a swarm of Englishmen,
Americans, Germans and others exiled from the
Rand are waiting in the Portuguese territory
to cut in. Also, a round number of Australians
have been already lured to the Cape by the pros-
pect of speedy peace, and are also waiting ; and
the Rand mines are now being manned almost
entirely with nigger labor, which blackens the
prospect exceedingly. Every immigrant to South
Africa must be possessed, under" the regulations,
of at least £lOO, but £lOO doesn’t last long, and De
Wet may block settlement for a year yet.
♦
“ E.R.” tells how some people earn a crust:
How many of the toilers in the sunlight above, with
clean breezes in their faces, have any idea of the lot of
the man “ below,” in almost any of the deeper quartz
mines? Take one of the best-conducted Victorian.mines
—a comparatively srood mine to work in—and down over
2000 ft. Dressed in dungaree and flannel, the miner takes
his place in the cage at the surface, in a steaming, stink-
ing atmosphere. It is a concentrated sample of the air
about to be breathed for the next eight hours. The cage
drops from under his feet, down through the darkness, at
a pace that would turn a lift-boy sick, feeling only an
occasional jar as a guide rattles on the skid. At
regular intervals there is the swish of warm air, like a
blow in the face, as the cage shoots past level or plat.
She suddenly steadies up ; then the sound of voices, and
the cage presently bumps on to the bearers at the 2000 ft.
level—the dimly-lighted plat crowded with the up-going
shift. From here, the miner may have to walk anything
up to a half-mile before getting to the place where he has
to work, and by the time he gets there the sweat is pour-
ing from him. The air, forced down through tin-piping
by “ blowers” on the surface, is but a poor substitute for
natural ventilation. On one occasion saw three men carried
from an intermediate level, down 100 ft. of ladders, to the
crosscut “dead to the world” ; the “blowers” had been
stopped for an hour and a half for repairs. Probably
three-fourths of the “shift” are working in the stopes
breaking stone for the mill in an atmosphere as thick as
a London fog, mainly composed of clouds of fine quartz-
dust thrown by the rock-drills, lithofracteur smoke, and
the 9tink of burning' sulphur and arsenic from the pyrites
—“ fired ”by the blows of steel drills. The noise of the
hissing, bumping rock-drills, mixed with the clatter of
shovellers throwing stone down the rumbling “shoots,”
and the general cursing and shouting, daze the ear.
Long before “ crib-time ” a man may wring his flannel as
a woman wrings clothes from the tub. When “ crib-
time ” comes, all hands climb down to the level, and
there is perfect peace for half-an-hour. Here, stretched
out in an attitude of contented collapse, on a dry “ lath ”
(sort of glorified paling) laid across the wet, slimy drive,
a man may enjoy a smoke till the “knock” hunts him
back to his little temporary hell. In a “ dead end ” the
heat is much worse, and when one feels his temples begin
to hump, and his mate’s voice somehow doesn’t seem to
reach him properly, and he fancies the sweat in his eves
is making his sight dim—it’s time to sit down for a hit.
In such places the new-chum is generally told to take it
steady. He quickly finds that he simply can’t take it
any other waj r . So day after day (or night, as the case
may be) men toil there uncomplainingly for 7s. 6d. a
“shift.”
4.
The Melbourne conference last week concerning
seamen’s wages has resulted in favor of the men,
who temporarily retain the conditions that were in
force under last year’s agreement. But, unless the
cheaply-manned tramps are shut out of the Austra-
lian coasting trade, the victory is only temporary.
The British and foreign tramp steamer pays about
half the Australian wage rate, and it is becoming
a more and more numerous pauper along our
shores. Many Australian steamers are now laid
up, and either the outside cargo-tank must be ex-
cluded or the Australian seaman’s wages must
come down to outside cargo-tank rates.
4
Pastor Rentoul contributes four and a-half
columns to the Advocate, Jan. 4th, on “ The
War: its Latest Horrors and Prospects.” Some
extracts are as follows: “The British casualties
exceed 75,000, An army of over 300,000 has been
wasted, wearied and shamed by a force of two
Christian states, whose inhabitants do not much
exceed a quarter of the population of Melbourne.
The London Daily News says the mortality in the
concentration camps is worse than in the worst
weeks of the plague at Bombay. Field-Marshal
Sir Neville Chamberlain, K.C.8., says : ‘ Never
before has such wholesale and reckless destruction
or abduction of families been enacted by a British
army. The figures imply that about ten women and
children died in the concentration camps last July
as compared to one who would have died in London.
Miss Hobhouse showed that at one time the
death-rate of women and children huddled at
Bloemfontein rose to over 360 in the 1000. Many
of these are ladies of mixed Scottish and Dutch-
Huguenot blood, as cultivated and as highly edu-
cated as our own wives and daughters.’ Lord
Ripon, ex-Governor-General of India, says, ‘ I
am filled with shame that such things should be
possible.’ Letters received by me (Rentoul)
only yesterday, from the most eminent leaders of
the Dutch Reformed Church in South Africa,
show the state of things under martial law to be
appalling. It is a reign of terror. The Rialto
newspaper, organ of the London Stock Exchange,
says, ‘ Unless the war is very speedily terminated
we shall see a crisis that will astonish the people
at large.’ England’s blunder in South Africa
looks like England losing America over again.”
-
When the s.s. Wilcannia reached Melbourne the
other day with the coal in her bunkers smoulder-
ing in several places so fiercely that it took six
days to put out the fire, certain inquisitive
delegates on the local Marine Board were with
difficulty choked off their demand for an
inquiry. The unusual circumstance about the fire
is that it is the fourth that has occurred in the ves-
sel’s bunkers in quite a short period. The three
previous outbreaks occurred at sea, and, being
comparatively minor matters, they were put down
to spontaneous combustion. If this was the cause
the Wilcannia is about the most spontaneously
combustible ship anybody wants to hear of. A
vessel of that nature ought to be propelled by hand
and have her cargo restricted to frozen meat, ice-
cream and such. It was alleged, as a curious side-
issue, that cargo was being taken in at Melbourne
even while the vessel was burning. The
seamen’s representatives on this remarkable
Marine Board wanted an inquiry, but the
owners’ representatives (being in the majority)
deprecated any “ hysterics ” and decided to give
way to no undue excitement. So, apparently, the
interesting subject of this very combustible ship
will drop quietly.
4
N.S.W. Government delayed for several days
the announcement of the third commissioner to
administer the western pastoral lands ; and the
reason of it isn’t much to the credit of Ministers.
Half-a dozen politicians—four, at all events —had
been for weeks battling for the billet. Eventually
W. J. Ferguson, was chosen. But at this point
the Labor party had its say. Ferguson, who
had sat for one of the B.H. constituencies for
eight years, was driven out of the Labor party,
after an active and thrilling disagreement ; but he
regained his seat as an independent by a good
majority, and in the teeth of the party’s opposition.
Thereupon the Labor party put Ferguson on its
little slate, and now its chance has come. Two or
three Ministers stuck to Ferguson for a while,
notably B. R. W ise ; but in the end the Govt,
substituted Langwell for Ferguson. People in
Sydney, who have had a close view of the political
careers of the two men, reckon that N.S.W. gains
by the change ; but the See Government comes
out of the struggle with its back-bone considerably
crumpled, all the same.
4 '
According to S.M. Herald, General French, of
N.S.W.,
Feels chagrined at the official “adoption” by the
N.S.W. Government of his coast defence scheme without
granting him substantial recognition for the special
services. The Queensland Government were not slow to
recognise the great value of it, and having adopted it,
made the inventor a present of £4OO. The General
adapted his scheme to the forts of N.S.W., and this
Government also eagerly adopted it, and made provision
on the last Estimates for £4OO as a recognition of the
special service rendered the State by the commandant.
But in the morning hours the House declined to pass the
money.
This is about the most impudent demand ever
made by any man in General French’s position.
The N.S.W. Government has for years been
paying him £1250 a year, with £2OO a year “table
money,” and other trimmings—for what? Pre-
sumably for contriving “ coast-defence schemes,”
or any other little matters of the sort. If he
didn’t do that, what on earth did he do to earn his
screw. Any drill-sergeant at 10s. a day could
look after the drilling of the N.S.W. army—mere
mechanical work —quite as well as a general.
Thus the late Stephen Crane, in his
“ Death and the Child” (an episode of the Greco-
Turkish war), referring to the Greek recruits :
These stupid peasants, who, throughout the world,
hold potentates on their thrones, make statesmen illus-
trious, provide generals with victories, all with igno-
rance, indifference, or half-witted hatred, moving the
world with the strength of their arms, and getting their
heads knocked together in the name of God, the king, or
the Stock Exchange; immortal, dreaming, hopeless
asses, who surrender their reason to the care of a shining
puppet, and persuade some toy to carry their lives in his
purse.


FOR YOUR HOLIDAYS
. s .o' • i ■ -
'
premo & poco Cameras.
LARGEST PHOTOGRAPHIC STORE
IN AUSTRALIA.
PHOTOGRAPHIC, MAGIC LANTERN and EDISON’S TALKING
MACHINE Catalogues mailed on application.
Baker & Rouse Proprietary
LIMITED,
375 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
260 C ns Street,
MEL BOURNE.
90 and 92 Queen Street,
BRISBANE.
65 Rundle Street,
ADELAIDE.
QAWMILL machinery.
BAND or .CIRCULAR MILLS, very heavy for
hardwood timber. Complete Outfits of any capa-
city. BAND RESAWS. ENGINES. BOILERS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
PULP MACHINERY. GRIP PULLEYS.
FLOUR MILLING MACHINERY.
“ ALLIS ” ROLLER FLOUR MILLS on the
UNIVERSAL BOLTER SYSTEM.
WILLIAM FLEMING, 24Clarence-street, SYDNEY..
Sci)d 6s yo6r
•^-PHOTOfiRAPH.
IF you send a Photograph of yourself (or friend) to Mr.
" !l A u RK^ OW ’ The Crown Studios, Sydney, and also
the'Photo°a° Wmg COUPON ’” he will reproduce from
Very Beautiful and Artistically-Finished
Pcrrpapgpt Cplargcipcpt
in Monochrome, equalling a rich Steel-Plate Engraving
handsomely mounted on an Indian Tinted Plate sunk
mount, and as good in everyway as Enlargements now
being supplied at from 30s. to 50s. each ; and will care-
fully pack it and send it, Parcel Post Paid, to any address
in Australia, Tasmania or New Zealand for lOs. 6d s
YOUR PHOTO. RETURNED WITH ORDER.
Cut out the following Coupon and send it with pour
Photo.
[Bulletin]
COUPON.
To M. BLOW (Photographer to His Excellency
the Governor-General, Lord Hopetoun),
The Crown Studios, George Street Sydney.
Please have the enclosed Photograph Enlarged
and Mounted, as per this Special Offer, and forward
it to me, carriage paid, to the following address for
which I enclose 10s. 6d. in full payment. ’
Name.
Address
Write your Name on the back of the Photograph to
avoid errors.
The Name of the Crown Studios is a guarantee n t
Good Work and a Faithful Reproduction.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Roy XL “ Alice in Wonderland.’’
Lyceum “ Greed of Gold.”
Her Majesty’s Grand Opera Season.
Palace “Professor’s Love Story."
Criterion “For the Sake of a Woman.”
Empire. Fuller Co. .
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Queen’s Hall Montgomery’s Entertainers.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ Aladdin.”
Her Majesty’s “San Toy.”
Theatre Royal “ The Span of Life.”
Gaiety Theatre “ Colleen Bawn.”
Opera House Rickards’Variety Co.
Bijou World’s Entertainers.
“Fedora,” a three-year-old opera, was
staged at Her Majesty’s (Sydney) for the first
time on Saturday night. Sardou wrote “Fedora,”
the tragedy, and Umberto Giordano composed
“Fedora,’’the opera. Had Sardou not been6B when
Giordano operated he would probably have com-
mitted another tragedy—slain Giordano for giving
his fine work such an unworthy setting. True,
Giordano has put a few small gems into the frame-
story of “Fedora.” The betrothed of a princess
with that first name is brought home mortally
wounded with a revolver shot. As the police
haven’t even “a theory,” they are “reticent.”
Beautiful Fedora, broken-hearted, vows to devote
her energies to catching the murderer, and swears
it on the large gold cross that hangs below her fine
27-ineh waist.. Loris Ipanoff is the man she sus-
pects, and presently she follows him to Paris,
turns on him the charms of her eyes and voice and
brain ; and he, deeply in love with her, confesses
to killing Vladimir in a fair fight. He, the
slain, was frisking with the slayer’s wife, and
Loris shows Fedora letters in which Vladimir
spoke most disrespectfully of her, his fiancee, to
the Countess Loris. Fedora, already struggling
against growing love for Loris, falls into his arms,
and the pair of Russians hug like two superior
bears. But, unfortunately, Fedora had, too
previously, warned the Russian spies that she
would be acting Delilah to Loris’s Samson, and
had bade them seize him as he left the house.
She throws them off the scent. She and her Loris
are married and living, O! so happily, but her
letters.to the spies and the Russian Embassy have
done their work, and Loris’s mother and brother
have lost their lives thereby, though indirectly.
In her despair at his anguish Fedora swallows
poison and dies songfully in Loris’s arms, whilst
he sobs a melodious forgiveness. ,
» * * *
It is quite possible that “Fedora” will get
a grip of the public, not in a musicianly sense, but
simply because it is a fine play most finely acted.
In the first act the music is lacking in intensity.
It is fussy and theatrical rather than dramatic.
In the second it brightens considerably and is full
of melody both in orchestra and voices, but pre-
sently it tapers off, grows shadowy and disap-
pointing. The drama saves the situation until
nigh the close of the act, when the guests depart.
The long pause with the empty stage is very
effective and full of anticipation for the coming
interview between Loris and Fedora. The inter-
mezzo played here is the finest thing in the opera.
The third act opens with a rather commonplace,
out-of-sight chorus —Swiss peasants, singing,
birds, and echoes of horns. The Princess’s villa
in the Alps is staged with a glorious Alpine
background. Loris has been to the post and re-
turns on his bicycle. The bike may be in the
original libretto, but in the grand opera it looks
tawdry realism. But Dani looks well in the
“turn,” and the audience seems to like the
novelty. Bassich and Dani’s singing parts do
not give them any special chances. The airs they
sing towards the close of the last act are all but
swamped by the terrible vigor of the orchestra.
The music entirely fails to convey the tragedy of
the situation.
* • * *
Dani acts the Russian noble throughout,
not in the expansive Italian style, but as a man of
northern blood. Apart from his and Signorina
Bassich’s roles the parts are small. Signorina
Vaccari, Lombardi and Cattadori are respec-
tively vivacious, gloomy, diplomatic and satirical
as their disguises required.
S** * *
The great popularity of “ Hans the Boat-
man ” —or, rather, of his big dog and his sweet-
tempered baby-friends—led to a short extension
of “Hans’” run at Sydney Palace. When The Bul-
letin went to press it was understood that “ What
Happened to Jones” would be expounded for
three nights this current week, and “The Pro-
fessor’s Love Story ” would be told on Saturday,
Jan. 18. “Jones” isn’t strictly new, but the
cheerful story of the bagman who was driven to
become a professor of a clerical cast through losing
his coat-tail at a prize-fight can bear some
repetition.
#* * *
Second edition of “ Alice in Wonderland,”
at Sydney Royal, is marked by more variety items
than the first, and, consequently, attracts more
adult support. But the children still prefer
the Mock Turtle and the Walrus, and the Mad
Hatter part of the piece, through which Miss
Digges wanders and sings and dances as a per-
fectly natural and sweet Alice. The merit of this
little lady’s performance is more appreciated at a
second sight: she is throughout a winsome girl,
not a grown-up pretending to be a girl, with a
sweet voice, a happy way of romping, and a true
juvenile fashion of being rude. During the past
week, matinees have been so frequent as to suggest
the necessity for legislation to prevent the over-
working of'actors and actresses, and each matinee
has been crowded with little folks. 1
* * sle *
At Sydney Empire, the Fuller manage-
ment finds “Robinson Crusoe” a good source of
revenue. That wanderer with the skin garments
and the uncanny gamp will consequently wander
until further notice, as much as the limited nature
°f the premises admits. When a boundless rover
of the days when the globe was broad has about
the smallest stage in Sydney to rove on, he can’t
rove as much as he would like, but Robinson
roves all he is able to. Miss Ida Roslyn and her
goat oostunae do great credit to the uninhabited
island, which has such a large number. of people,
on it, and the address of any island with a similar
lady on it will be thankfully received at this office.-
** * *
At the Lyceum “Greed for Gold ” keeps
on the boards by means of the wheel, the ballet
girls that the bride invites to her wedding, and
the gyrations of the dumb man who will not use
a note-book, but waves his hands about after the
fashion of an insane semaphore when telling his
story. The writer has an idea that that dumb
man was stolen, and none too well stolen, from
Walter Besant’s tale, “The Captain’s Room.”
Besant’s dumb Malay cook, who can’t be expected
to write English, comes home, the only known
survivor of a wreck, to tell his captain’s best girl
all about it. He is able to communicate with his
own countrymen after a fashion, but when he
naps his hands in a strange language, and Captain
Zachariason, aged about 90, interprets the story,
he only leaves the impression that his skipper
committed bigamy, that he afterwards threw his
wife overboard, and that he is now working out a
sentence of 15 years at Moreton Bay.
** * *
** For the Sake of a Woman ” at Sydney
Criterion is notable this week because Miss Roxy
Barton is billed to take the part of the good young
woman who does a weep with her father in the
dear old vicarage garden because it is her wedding
morn. The stage keeps faithfully to the old
tradition of the tearful bride who says farewell
to each individual flower in the hereditary back-
yard, and though pretty Miss Roxy shines most
as the bright bad girl, she will, no doubt, keep up
the tradition faithfully. In very many cases the
bride is going to start housekeeping close at hand,
and expects to drop in and see her old father and
the flowers every day, but the parting is one of
the husky old stand-byes of the profession, and is
not to be lightly disregarded.
** * *
After a vain effort to save the “ first part ”
by new dressing, and by getting the persons con-
cerned therein to walk about and look tired
instead of sitting down and looking exhausted,
Sydney Tivoli finally placated an angry Bulletin
by doing away with that tiresome feature on
Saturday, and presented a programme built upon
American lines. The occasion was marked by
the re-appearance of some old favorites, and the
entertainment was bright from start to finish.
Miss Ada Delroy, who appeared in Mr. Rickards’
first variety show at the old Opera House in 1888,
comes back with no destructive mark of those 14
years, as bright a singer and as clever a dancer as
ever. Her representation of “ She ” and “the
Lily Dance ” are excellent developments of skirt-
dancing, “She ” being an attractively weird item.
Mdlle. Nadine, the Parisian chansonetteer, has a
new programme with more of good dancing and
less of rather poor singing than usual. Derenda
and Breen and Val. Vousden continue to be
amusing.
• • * *
That section of the community which, is
masculine bloke and feminine donah, which wields
the empty bottle “down yarbor,” and wears its
boots sharp at the toes, delights most of
all, in its moments of relaxation, in something
tenderly sentimental. The song about the
wounded soldier dee-ing on the blood-stained
field and thinking of home and mother, or about
the sailor bold going to the bottom of the
deep blue sea, whilst his best girl looks out
for the overloaded collier which will never
return to pay another insurance premium,
appeals to all those tender sentiments which
he hasn’t got time to think about in his everyday
business of collecting bottles and stoushing
bobbies. When he can have this sort of thing
illustrated with magic lantern pictures, the bloke’s
simple soul wells up in tears, and his joy expresses
itself in sobbing out the chorus with much feeling
and little harmony. It doesn’t matter how the
song is phrased or sung, or how weird the pictures
may be ; the vessel may go down in a raging
storm at night under a clear blue sky ; so long as
the item has plenty of sob and simple, unaffected
emotion, it serves. The music-hall gallery popu-
larity of the illustrated ballad is a problem which
is worthy of the attention of the sociologist.
*X * *
At Sydney Queen’s Hall a person in
authority rose up the other night and thanked the
audience for having enjoyed itself, adding that
the biograph was leaving the city, but would
return some day. The audience then enjoyed
itself some more. The biograph bull raced after
the biograph matador as on previous occasions, and
somebody who says “ often ” with a loud “ t ” ex-
plained the particulars. Montgomery’s is a good,
painstaking entertainment on the whole. Most
of the biograph items, and some of the variety
ones, are excellent, and there isn’t too much
our army in “Our Army,” which is another
reason why Montgomery should be welcomed
back whenever he chooses to return.
** * *
At Melb. Royal there is another week or
two of life left in “ The Span,” the drama which
takes everybody to Africa and places a bloated
British capitalist at the head of a band of Arabs.
Present scribe has tried to find a glimmer of
probability in the African romance, but he can’t
strike the missing light. Brunton’s scenery and
some live stock, likewise the revels of “terp-
sichorean houris,” and three Horley brothers
stretched across a chasm, are the only apparent
excuses for dragging the Dark Continent into
Bland Holt’s show. The story having gone
raving mad under the fierce African sun,
makes no attempt to recover its reason. In the
last act, Miss Ross is a weeping lodger at the
home of the awful Dunstan, who has heaped
horrors on her head. Bland and Mrs. Holt are
likewise attached to the establishment, although
Dunstan sooled the Arabs on them a little while
before. Under the circumstances, Dunstan natu-
rally proposes to marry Miss Ross, but the lady
hides behind a chair whilst he is confessing his
sins to the audience, and subsequently she
flourishes his mother’s last will and testament in
his face in order that he may chase her round the
furniture until his victim, Baker, comes back from
the grave to hand him over to the police on evi-
dence which only a melodrama could take seri-
ously. “ The Span of Life ” ought to be put into
a padded cell and left to die of gibbering starva-
tion.
** * *
Bing-a-bong upon the gong 1
Sing a song of Pynka Pong:
Sing a ditty of the city
Decked with chorus damsels pritty,
Short and sweet, or sweet and long.
There the stolid mandarin
Chucks his wives beneath the chin,
So sedately, potentately—
Happy man ! he’s envied greatly.
Sexamy is not a sin
If you live at Pynka Pong.
O ! to be a mandarin
Blessed with darlings plump and thin !
Mandarin at Pynka Pong.
Carrie Moore as Sanee Toy,
Sometime girl and sometime boy,
Welly slender, tender Carrie
Hath a maiden mind to marry—•
Ring the belle and wish her joy.
Lauri Li, the Chinkyman—
Paper ’brella, paper fan—
Talks the same old Lauri lingo.
Blitish Jingo, name of Bingo
Tries to part his son from San,
Bids him seek another Toy.
Spite of which parental ban
Sonny weds Mimosa San,
Geisha San Mimosa Toy.
• • * *
Melbourne is not wildly infatuated with
“ San Toy,” at Her Majesty’s, yet the public con-
tinues to get there, all the same—like the turtle
bound for the soup. Tunefulness and splendor
are good supports for a weak book. Moreover,
the performance improves, except in two places.
The original mild comedian from London, who
played Sir Bingo and talked about constructing
railways and twopenny tubes “ from there-ah to
there-ah,” has been succeeded by another imported
strangah, who seems even less droll than the other
Bingo. And, somehow, Kenningham works more
stiffly than ever. He’s a nice tenor, but he needs
oiling at the joints. Also, it is worth remarking
that Kenningham and Ernest Mozar suffer from
unpicturesque linen suits, which look sacred to
the memory of two whitewashes who fell from a
top-floor window.
** * *
“ Aladdin ” has lost none of its loveliness
since last week, neither have the Gothams deteri-
orated on acquaintance, or the Permans ceased to
astonish their fellow natives. Miss Bella Perman
and her two lithe brothers were bright dancers
before they left Australia, and now they have
returned with a cake-walk that presents more
humor, grace and variety than a hundred cake-
walks of the common or garden coon type. The
French polish on the American article is a unique
effect. Further kind observations concerning
other people and things in Musgrove’s spectacle
are held over.
** * *
Maggie Moore’s estimable Dutch farder
continues to plant his freehold document under
the hearthstone of the old home at Melb. Gaiety,
but the final discomfiture of Deacon Skinner is
billed for Friday night. On that occasion our
unbeloved brother will snuffle off the premises,
and next night he will presumably assume the
Irish brogue of a misguided Danny, and cast Eily
MaggieO’Mooreintoapaintedlake. Anyway, “The
Colleen Bawn ” falls due on Saturday, when the
absurdity of trying to drown the heroine will have
to be perpetrated by J. P. West, or some other re-
sponsiblecomedian. Boucicault’s drama was thefirst
in which anybody ever threw a leading lady to the
fishes. Hundreds of similar attempts have been
made since ‘ ‘ Colleen Ba vvn ” set the fashion, and
invariably the intended victim has been dragged
ashore with the limelight on her brow. The cold'
damp murder never comes off. Good old Bill
Shakespeare was the only dramatist who ever
supplied a principal with a watery grave, and in
that case the Ophelia had to do her own drowning.
If she had been chucked into the royal eel-pond,
her melancholy Dane would have been there to
pull her out.
** * *
At the Opera House, where the old
“ first-part ” setting is np more, and matinees are
announced for twice a week, a great crowd rolled
up on Saturday to sample the reconstructed show
and meet the Jackson Family for the first time.
The Jacksons are a family of four—two brethren
and a like number of sistern—aged from about 17
to 26, and the girls—Qod bless ’em !—are the
younger members. They make music and say
nothing all the time. Piano, violin, ’cello,
flute, piccolo, mandolines, and a box of jingles are
performed upon. Of the new people who took the
floor a fortnight ago, Colby and Way and the
two dummies give the brightest turn. The Tired
Tramp remains a sore affliction, but if his time of
trouble were reduced by fifty per cent, the Tramp
might seem a pardonable item. A hard, auto-
cratic stage-manager, armed with a pruning-knife,
io what the Rickards show requires. Dancers
who c-an’t sing are allowed to talk out of tune for
many minutes before their clever legs put in an
apology for the past offences. _ The front scenes
are irritating as a rule, especially the perennial
view of Ludgate Circus: Australia expects its
Rickards to consider the eternal fitness of things,
and put some more gilt on the gingerbread. '
** * *
Mrs. Grace Millar Ward, an artistic
soprano, is warbling of her Old Kentucky Home
and other matters at Melb. Bijou. Also Wallace
Brownlow has recovered from his indisposition,
and the rest of the World’s Entertainers are going
strong. Manager Joe Brown states that these
are the last four weeks of the Present Contingent
of the Entertainers, wherefore this journal sadly
assumes that Burglar Sweet and Co. will soon be
engaged with the Boers. “ Contingent ”is a bad
word.
E.W.B. : A well-known itinerant theatrical manager,
engaging me as usher, at Warwick (Queensland) :
“ Now then, young fellow, come down early, and, what-
ever you do, don’t forget to ‘ clap ’ like blazes ! ”
The Wild Cat Column.
Some °f the States still publish the gross
revenue (Federal and State) collected in their territory,
and some the State revenues only, and the situation is
mixed. The following table, however, shows the total
revenue (Federal and State) collected in each State, so
tar as it can be ascertained (some of the figures are
approximate only): *
Increases as
_ compared
Revenue to with results at
31st Decern- 31st Decem-
w q w « v ber ’ 1901 - ber > 19 °0-
N.S.W. (8 months) .. £5,713,000 £608,000
•w o if/ 1 /I of re3Lm ‘ ed area of Sydney included)
N.S.W. (6 months) .. 5,578,377 510;516
(Kents of resumed area of Sydney not included)
Westralia (6 months).. 1,718.168 ' 228,616
Victoria (6 months) .. 3,943,076 208,081
Maoriland (8 months) 3,387,312 100,216
Queensland (6 months) 2,311,329 75,879
S. Australia (6 months) 1,269,000
Tasmania (year) _ .. 954,483 100,497,
The figures look reasonably good in some cases, yet when
tne underlying circumstances are examined, things are
States? 00 promislng in any of the six Commonwealth
Wal es > apart from the rents of the
rAv P o t ld ' fo £ resui ? led properties, which are treated as
revenue, has an increase of £510,516. Of this, £315,666 is
< j usfc ? mB revenue arising from the new Federal
™ l “»J leav J. n S an lncrease of £194,850 from ordinary
sources of State revenue. Most of this arises from rail-
ys and tramways, and is partly caused by the opening
of new lines, and the increase is more than absorbed in
new working expenses and interest. Taking the State
revenue only, as apart from the Federal revenue, and the
State expenditure, things stand thus
New South Wales (6 months).
Dec. 31,1900. Dec. 31,1901. Decrease.
Revenue .. £5,104,926 .. £5,102,893 .. " £2,033
Expenditure .. 5,464,940 .. 5,643,049 .. 1n i78,T09
Deficit .. £360,014 .. £540,156 .. £180,142
nl ean ‘li tha Jv N ' S - W - > despite the great increase of
revenue under the new tariff, is £180,142 worse off than
date last year. And but for the annexation as
the ren i :s , of resumed properties not yet paid
* he f s ; x deficit would reach the appalling
figure of about £670,000. And the extra deficit is all in
the last three months, when N.S.W. had the benefit of
the extra revenue arising from the Federal tariff. In
Sqnvwa Nov f nb ff' and December the expenditure was
£307,228 greater than the receipts. New South Wales
closed last financial year with a shortage of £ll7 725
a £°°‘' dln ? fco Coghlan’s revised figures. What kind of a
age is this year likely to show? And the increased
expenditure out of revenue does not arise through any
Sis U ? , h 0 e n record r : rOWlng ’ f ° r lOanS are also inereasin S-
Ordinary Loan Dec/31 ’ 1900 ’ Dec. 31,1901. Increase.!
Expenditure £1,310,302 £1,484,917 £174,615
Resumptions Nil. 341,155 341,155
£1,310,302 £1,826,072 £515,770
Apparently, the interest due to the persons whose pro-
peity has been resumed, instead of being paid out of the
rents collected from these properties, is being charged to
loans as anybody who knew the See-O’Sullivan crowd
might have anticipated.
mon th received from the British
ar Office £126,000, being an accumulation of payments
for assistance rendered in hen-stealing and farm-burning
n Afiica. Apart from this, the revenue would have
nn?l C vr? de : < ? llne - This is the situation (State revenue
and expenditure only) :
Queensland (6 months).
„ Dec. 31, 1900. Dec. 31, 1901. Decrease.
Revenue .. .. £2,235,450 .. £1,966,081 .. £269 369
Expenditure .. 2,312,798 .. 2,015,956 .'. 296,842
Deficit .. £77,348 .. £49,875
This is not at all good, for, after the receipt of £126,000
which is an item that isn’t at all likely to recur, Queens-
land s accounts are only £27,473 better than they were at
the same date last year, and with no more big remit-
tm C f. K°m th f E , ntlsh Wai ' office be expected they
will piobably, bv June 30th, be worse than at that date
last -y ea J- And last year’s deficit reached the appalling
figure of £528.188. The loan expenditure was £609 658
™« 3 .® as compared with the correspond-
mg half of last financial year. Last year Westralia had
nT rS^° rr ° W 1 ,5 lecor1 ecord ’ while Queensland came
second. This year Westralia is certain to be worst again
that insane and sandy State is always worst—with
N.S.W. second, and Queensland third.
~is known of Victoria’s expenditure for
the half-year, but as its revenue, sq far, is better than it
was last year, and as it closed last year with the biggest
surplus in the Commonwealth, its prospects should be
reasonably good unless Peacock is doing some very
foolish things with the money behind the scenes.
i- . T . a ?Pf n i a j\ a s closed its financial year, and the
SFederal revenue coHected on the island is
£100,497 less than the State revenue for last year. It is a
aT awfu ! sblnl P- The expenditure isn’t known yet.
Ay tb ® end , of 1900 Tasmania had a surplus of £131,249.
lor 1901, when its share of theCommonwealthexpen-
dtuiire and the interest on new State loans are provided
tor : tb T® wi'l probably be a pretty large deficit. At the
end of 1902, seeing that the Federal tariff is much lower
than the old State tariff, and it will then be in force for
the whole year, the deficit is expected to be something
enormous unless more revenue is raised by direct taxation,
of which there is no.reliable sign at present. Already at
least one Tasmanian legislator has been suggesting an ap-
peal to the Federal Government for assistance. 1
South Australia closed last year with a deficit
which the Treasurer tried to convert into a paper surplus
by methods which brought down upon him the severe
reprobation of the Auditor-General. S.A. has this half-
year £40,945 less revenue (State and Federal) than it had
for the six months to 31st December, 1900. It has some.


< stocks Kept of
RAND ROCK DRILLS & AIR COMPRESSORS
BY THE SOLE AGENTS—
• N. GTJTHRIDGE, LTD., 71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
AncJ-.at 486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE; WELLINGTON, N.Z.;
214 HIGH STREET, FREMANTLE; KALCOORLIE.
ď
TRAMW
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Prop. Ltd.
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
representing ORENSTEIN & KOPPEL LTD.j of LONDON and BERLIN,
Equip Complete TRAMWAYS and supply Every Description of Tramway Material.
Locomotives from 10 to 250 h.p. TM
Tn?n -un MELBOURNE include Rails and Accessories, Steel Sleepers,
. emW, ’ £. w ! tch< : s - Side Tipping Trucks, Steel Wheels, &c. Technical advice gratuitously
y,ng I ? nd . l<, *' , , llalieil ' Surveys arranged. Illustrated Catalogues and Photo-
“ showing Tramways constructed in different parts of the World, upou
application. A. E LEPLASTRIER, Manager.
City Leader, London, 20th July, 1901: “It is
particularly gratifying- to us, as we have consistently
praised the management of the Colonial Mutual Life, to
note that the funds are continually increasing.”* ,
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W..
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * •
The Hannans Oroya Gold Mining Co., Kal-
goorlie, have lately placed an order with the Austral
Otis Company, South Melbourne, for a double drum first
motion winding engine. The cylinders are 18 inch
diameter by 36 inch stroke, and are fitted with balanced
piston valves. The drums are Bft. in diameter and fitted
with indicators. The engine is completely controlled
from the driver’s platform. In all respects is similar to
the engines working so satisfactorily at the Golden Horse-
shoe Mine, Boulder, Long Tunnel, Victoria, and the Cobar
Chesney Mine, N.S.W.*
* * • *
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
* * * *
See for yourself. The Australian Medical
Gazette of January, 1891, compares Zetz Spa to the cele-
brated Vichy waters of France, and states that it is
valuable for gout, rheumatism, gravel, catarrh of the
bladder, diabetes, dyspepsia, splenic and hepatic dis-
orders.
♦ * * •
Vanning Tables. —The very newest and what
gives exceedingly fair promise of superseding all other
tables is the machine known as the Wesley-Baird Vanning
Table. The table is of South Australian invention, and
has given excellent results on Broken Hill ores and ores
containing pyrites, carbonate of copper and tin. Like all
tables, the best work is done on “ fines,” and more espe-
cially when the product is properly classified. The
Central Mining and Tramway Co., of 424 Little ColPns-
street, Melbourne, and 40 Hunter-street, Sydney, are the
sole agents in the Eastern States. The table has a capa-
city up to 30 tons per day.*
* * * *
Gentleman having only a limited time at their
disposal can obtain the practical instruction in assaying
and metallurgical work, necessary to qualify them for
obtaining good positions, in the ore testing works of Gil-
fillan and McCreery, Stock Exchange Buildings, Melb.*
* • • *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase,_ “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “ Option,”
Melbourne.*
* * * «
Messrs. Plummer Hove and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated •
“ British” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, etc., etc.*
• • * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary- spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
: pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts,fofgings, andall sorts of iron-work.*
* » * »'
Urinaiy troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buchu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
* * * •
Tharsis Copper : Some years ago this co.
set aside a large sum of money, with the object of pur-
chasing and working a copper-mine in some other part of
the world. One of its representatives (E. L. Ednfonds)
came to Australia for that purpose, and, after examining
many mines placed under offer to his co., has left. The
Argus says : “ Mr. Edmonds has not disclosed the result
of his Australian but the fact that he has
devoted 20 months to this continent shows that his ex-
amination has not been a perfunctory one.” Now, if he
had bought any mines in this continent., we should have
heard all about it,. How would it be possible to conceal
the fact ? It is evident that the result has been woefully
disappointing—that he has examined many mines and
found none worth buying. Amongst the number was
Chillagoe, of which he admitted thinking very little, over
a year ago.
« * • *
This ought to be a good time for raising a
cohentingent. “ Out in the back country,” writes an.
Emmaville (N.S.W.) correspondent, “the country was
hardly ever in a worse state. Miners are everywhere being
knocked off. A policeman in Emmaville told me there
was not a man drunk this holiday—a sure sign of stiff-
ness in the community. Even the Silver Spur, near
Texas, has-reduced hands considerably, and it-can be
worked when others have no show.”,
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Arsenic, Carbonate of Soda, eta
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Naptha, Benzine and Blasting? Charges.
Hy. Markwaid
178 William-street,
Mblboitrnb ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney; 68 Currie-st., Adel.; 27 Eagle-street,
Brisb.; and at Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellington, and
iiiiU
thing extra to pay for its share of the Federal expenses,
it has a large increase in its-interest bill on account-of
new borrowings ; and its railway receipts, by reason of the
liroken llill collapse, are falling to pieces. Altogether
the outlook is about as bad as it can be.
Westralia has, for the half-year, a surplus of
£167,530. But even this splendid result isn’t so good as
it looks. Westralia is still keeping up its boom by such
stupendous borrowings in proportion to population as
there is no record of in any other country’s history. It
is keeping down expenditure by charging to loans unpro-
ductive items that used to be paid out of revenue; as
compared with 1898, fully £500,000 a year is being saved
by this ruinous device. And Westralia, unlike the other
states, is still allowed, by special arrangement, to collect
inter-State duties. These, however, are to diminish
y e ®' r t'll in five years they disappear altogether, so
that the benefit gained by this device is only temporary.
And meanwhile the tariff is being steadily cut
down by the pressure of the brutally-selfish Calico-Jimmy
party-the agents of foreign importers who don’t care
what happens to Australia or its revenues or its industries
so long as local- manufactures are kept down and there is
Ptepjjy of room for their imports. The tariff yielded
£90,000 less in Dec. than in Nov., and £170,000 less in
December than in October. On the December figures it
I s fust about an £8,000,000 tariff. It will probably be
further cut down unless the Barton Government puts all
its feet down for all they are worth. And even at the
present figure N.S.W., Queensland, Tasmania, and S.A.
are in serious straits, while Victoria will probably get
there before long, and Westralia is only saved temporarily
by the special agreement which permits it to collect inter-
state duties. The new year doesn’t open cheerfullv.
!• * *
The Bank of North Queensland, dating from
the time when it finally wrote off its losses :
Recovered w .
from Debts b® Less 2J- per S
previously „-S cent. Divi- _fc
Written -2 £ dend and -2 ®
i Profits. off. Div. dutv. [Sps
June, 1895.. £587 £587 " £587
Dec., 1898.. 1,479 1,479 —2/ 66
June, 1899.. 1,675 £BBl 2,556 4,622
Dec., 1899.. 2,700 2,700 £1,313 6,009
June, 1900.. 2,557 901 3,458 1,313 8,154
Dec., 1900.. 2,368 1,540 3,908 1,313 10,749
June, 1901.. 2,424 2,424 1,313 11,860
Dec., 1901.. 2,536 2,536 1,313 13,083
The earnings represent £4 10s. Bd. per cent, per annum
on the shareholders’ funds as at the commencement of the
half-year, as compared with £4 7s. 6d. per cent, earned
during the six months to June, 1901. This is a material
improvement. The reserves are growing in a very satisfac-
tory fashion, and are now fully £7500 more than they were
just prior to the suspension in 1893. They are all invested
in State securities, which is a commendable arrangement;
at the same time ib is to be hoped that they are not all in
Queensland securities. It is always well to keep in view
that possible day when some of these States may find it
necessary to call their creditors together, and to consider
which State has, in proportion to its wealth and popula-
tion, the biggest crowd of creditors to call together. The
business of the Bank of North Queensland shows a sub-
stantial increase during the half-3'ear —the increase in
deposits alone J>eing £14,000. The shareholders’ funds
are _ remarkably large in proportion to the size of the
business, making the institution an unusually solid one
from a depositor’s point of view. And the cash and
liquid securities (£161,643, of which £146,043 is cash) re-
present no less than 46 per cent, of all liabilities to the
public, which is almost the strongest cash reserve in Aus-
tralasia. The B.N.Q. is notable for its habit of keeping
needlessly large cash reserves, and it should be worth
the management’s while to consider the advisability of
investing some more of this heavy stock of coin in
interest-bearing securities of a liquid character.
* * * •
The New Zealand Insurance Co. —the biggest
fire insurance concern which Australasia possesses,
though the South British/also a Maoriland office, is an
exceedingly good second—concluded another prosperous
year on 30th November, 1901. The record of the last few
years is as follows :
Profit. Dividend. Written Total
off. Reserves.
1892.. £258,335
1893.. £53,805 13f per cent. = £27,500 £25,617 259,023
1894.. 44,905 13f „ „ 27,500 18,808 257,620
1895.. 32,954 13} „ ~ 27,500 13,524 249,550
1896.. 29,097 13} „ „ 27,500 251,147
1897.. 11,074 11} „ „ 22,500 239,721
Loss.
1898.. £14,262 10 „ „ 20,000 205,459
Profit.
1899.. 51,409 10 „ „ 20,000 236,868
1900.. 69,617 12} „ „ 25,000 281,485
1901.. 55,119 13} „ „ 27,500 £13,937 295,167
The results are good all round, despite the heavy
writings-off, which amount to £71,886 in nine years.
This amount has almost all been applied in reduction of
the book-value of the co.’s offices and other properties,
and does not represent losses on the ordinary invesfiS*
ments. It is always a wise policy, in view of the violent
fluctuations in this land, where values are so much in-
flated by loan booms, to write properties down to bedrock,
or even below it, seeing that bedrock itself is liable to
drop considerably. )
The New Zealand Insurance Co. has .£537,471
in investments of all kinds, and the return from them last
year was £19,560. Making a rough allowance for the pro-
perties occupied by the co. for its own purposes, the rest
of the investments should represent a yield of about 4 per
cent. net. The co. holds about £193,000 worth of State
securities, of which only £50,000 are Maoriland stocks.
This is £50,000 better than last year, still it is a
fact that Maoriland companies do very little to facilitate
the local issue of their own State loans. British, United
States, Cape of Good Hope, Transvaal and Argentine
securities represent a far larger item in the balance-sheet
than local ones do. A somewhat similar remark applies
to the South British Co. Thb Bulletin hopes, when the
Federal Government takes over the Australian State
debts, to see it enacted that every company doing busi-
ness in the Commonwealth must keep a large proportion
—one-half isn’t too much—of its reserves in Federal
Government securities. This would . materially hasten
the process of creating a local market for these securities.
Such an arrangement must, of course, come into force by
instalments spread over several years—just as few years,
however, as circumstances admit of.
The New Zealand Insurance Co. has a splendid
and rapidly-growing business. These are the premiums
—less reinsurances and returns :
1893 .. £278,621 1898 .. £311,341
1894 .. 265,179 1899 .. 315,284
1895 -.. 267,917 1900 .. 342,036
1896 .-. 283,974 1901 .. 371,487
1897 .. 283,630
Increase since 1893 is nearly £93,000.
» • » •
A. Shadier, Limited, a big Sydney bakery co.,
which also runs a mqst gorgeous restaurant where you
can hardly hear yourself asking for corned beef on
account of the music of the band, is in further trouble.
It presented its first balance-sheet, last August, when
£5OOO of the vendor’s preference capital was written off,
and even then it was left with a'defioit of £2822 when all
paper items were eliminated. The paid-up capital was
£9894, so deducting it there was an apparent surplus
of assets over liabilities of £7072. In the last
six months, - however, ' things appear to have been
going to the bad rapidly. The debenture-holders
have taken possession, so the shareholders have
apparently lost all their capital inside 18 months. The
liabilities, including amount owing to debenture-holders,
are set down at £20,607, and assets (not reckoning such
paper items as goodwill and “formation expenses”)
appear to be about £21,724, leaving an apparent surplus
of £lll7. According to the daily paper report, creditors
under £2O are to be paid in cash, and other creditors are
to be offered one-half in preference shares and half by
instalments spread over 18 months. It would almost pay
the co. better to go on the land.
• • * ■
“F.”: The producer of “Byronite” is committed
by Magistrate Panton for a trial of his extraordinary
invention at Melbourne General Sessions. According, to
defendant Byron, the compound that bears his name with
an “ite” added thereto, is a new motive power, and a
company was formed for the purpose of introducing it to
public notice at an enormous profit to the co. _ Byron,
onetime of Sydney, estimated the value of his discovery
at £10,000,000, more or less, but he seems to have sold a
half share for £lOO cash down, and £6OO to follow when
the motive power would reveal its virtues in connection
with a patent flying machine. A test of these alleged vir-
tues vvas not convincing to the shareholders, and Byron’s
partner was principal witness against him. The pros-
pectus, issued for private circulation only, stated that
“ Byronite is a powerful gas generated from cheap
materials, the cost of manufacture being under £6 per
ton in a concentrated powder form. . . . When in this
form it is quite safe and harmless, and therefore convenient
for transport purposes. Asa motivepoweritis thecheapest
in use, and it will entirely do away with the necessity for
coaling stations for the Navy .... seeing that Is. worth
of Byronite will develop an equal amount of energy
that with coal gas would cost 20s. The ingredients used
in the manufacture of Byronite are obtainable in small
or large quantities in almost every country in the
world.” Thus far the shareholders have got no satisfac-
tion for their money save an engine working under the
influence of something which inventor Byron said, and
says, is the “concentrated powder” of ingredients
obtainable in almost every country. These ingredients
are no longer a secret. The scientist lodged full particu-
lars of his harmless gas powder with solicitors Blake and
Riggall, who were authorised to deliver up the document
to the Byronite Co. in the event of the manufacturer
failing to comply with certain conditions of contract.
Byronite, as set forth on paper by the sole author of the
mystery, is a mixture of pollard, beetroot, chalk, sugar,
and eucalyptus leaves reduced to powder by furnace heat,
and the powder yields gas through the action of oil of
cloves. The idea of propelling war vessels and flying
machines with beetroot and fowls’ food hath no charms
for ordinary chemists, but, on the other hand, no chemist
can swear that the materials, for a new explosive don’t
lurk in boiled beans and bacon. Lawyer Wolfe Fink
assured the court last week that Byron will duly demon-
strate the manufacture of his “ ite,” and prove its ability
to drive an engine ; so the shareholders still live in hopes
of making a few millions by their speculation.
* • • •
Broken Hill Proprietary intends erecting, six
more kilns for the desulphurising of slimes. Three are
already in work. They were to have been erected at the
Acacia Siding, some miles away from the town ; but the
latest decision is to put them on the mine. Go. has about
28.000 tons of slimes on hand, and is making more at the
rate of 800 to 1000 tons weekly. The mine kilns will treat
about 1000 tons per week. The project is viewed with
much disfavor by the inhabitants, as the sulphur and lead
fumes arising from the kilns are very deadly. There was
never any vegetation worth calling such to kill at Broken
Hill, so their deadliness doesn’t strike the passing
stranger in the eye, so to speak. But Queenstown (Tas.)
is surrounded by vivid green forest till you get inside a
certain range of the town. Then everything is as black
as the ashes of Gommorah, and as bare of vegetation as
the devil’s boots.
* * * *
The Paddy Lackey (N.S.W.): Xmas" clean up
was 760 tons for 680 oz. Stopes are reported to be looking
well and mine and machinery in good working‘order.
The north bottom level is in 860 feet and the south 140'
feet. This drive will soon reach the shaft in the recently,-
purchased deep level of the co.’s property. Some years ago
mine was placed under offer to an English co., which paid
some £2OOO deposit on the purchase price of £20,000, and
spent another £lOOO in reports, etc. The scheme was then
abandoned, although the property was strongly recom-
mended, because there happened to be a bad mining
market in London at that particular time. The repre-
sentative of another Bull crowd then 'examined it, and,
instead of buying, spent about• half the purchase money
in taking up, and sinking in, the deep level ground, which
has since been acquired for an insignificant sum by the
owners of the parent mine. Latter have had the benefit
of the deposits, and have a property which has paid them
well to keep.
• * ♦ *
Great Western (Cobar, N.S.W.) : This mine is
under offer for £20,000 to a representative of the Lake
George mines, which have closed down, and are not likely
to re-open. The copper lode contains too little copper to
pay, and the gossan lode is too low in gold lo pay for
crushing and cyaniding. The idea is to shift the plant,
or a part of it, to Cobar— i.e., if the Great Western is
considered, good enough at the price. In the writer’s
opinion it is a bargain. Some three years ago the Occi-
dental mine was under offer to an English co. for the
same amount, and, after over £2OOO spent by way of
deposits, &c., the option was abandoned, because there
happened at the moment to be no market in London.
Since that time the Occidental has spent about half the
amount asked for the mine in new plant and distributed
upwards of the other half in dividends ; the mine has a
market value of nearly three times the amount then asked.
It works an open cut, the northern face of which is within
a few yards of the G.W. boundary, where the lode has
been proved to be equally wide and as good as in the
Occidental, but cannot be made to pay without a big
mill to deal with a big tonnage. With another £20,000
the G.W. can be made a certain dividend-payer.
* » • »
The copper market: This metal advanced
£llos. a ton in 24 hours recently, but promptly receded
to £l3 2s. 6d.; consequently disappointment reigns
throughout the Australasian part of the copper world.
Orange (N.S.W.) offers a remedy. There is a man there
named Payne, who has a method for treating all low-
grade ores, and he declares that even should copper fall
below £2O per ton he could treat the ore profitably.
Such an invention, he urges, might save many mines from
closing down, and prevent much labor being thrown
upon the State. The writer thinks so, too, but does not
for a moment believe the machine or method will
work bn a £2O basis. Copper mines are shutting
down throughout Australia. Wires from Queenstown
state that the great fall in copper has had a de-
pressing' effect on the West Coast of Tasmania. The
smaller producing mines have had to, stop until
the price of the metal recovers. The Lvell Block? have
ceased sending ore to the Mt. Lyell smelters. The direc-
tors of the Moonta and Wallaroo mines (S. A.) have notified -
their employees that unless some very material improve-
ment takes place they will be compelled to withdraw the
10 per cent, increase in wages given in ’99, and it must be
only a matter of a short time before the mines close down
altogether if copper remains under £5O a ton. Remark-
able that in the face of this rapid and almost unaccount-
able drop in copper no fall has taken place in Mt. Lyell
shares, which are higher now than when the fall started.
The general opinion is that the decline has been brought
about by the copper syndicate in America, but what its
bject is nobody seems to know. Some say it is to limit
production by closing down mines that are not likely to
rempen ; others that it is to make long contracts for the
purchase of copper on a £5O basis. Meanwhile, the fact
remains that there are only two or three big mines in
Australia that can pay at the present price.
• * * »
“C.H.It.” writes: Re the heavily capitalised
Briseis mine (Tasmania). It is not the disposal of the
tailings, or the silting up of the Biugarooma that is likely
to, try the patience of the shareholders so much as the
lack of sufficient water to work the ground profitably.
Writer has traced the Bingarooma Biver from its source
on the tableland below Ben Nevis, and in an ordinary dry
summer does not believe there will arrive by the Briseis
race one-fourth of the water assured to the co. by experts
and others. At the time writer followed the stream down
there was not enough water below the junction of the
two branches to make a decent creek. Also, the soakage
will be considerable. However, time will teil; and
meanwhile, the tin is there waiting to be bagged.
• • * *
Briseis Tin (Tas.): Shares, 18s., a fall of 10s.
in a little more than a month, which is attributed to the
fact that “ large numbers of shares purchased in Loudon
towards the close of the year are now coming forward
and are in process of absorption in the Australian
markets.” That is one way of putting it. This is the
other. Under the impression that these shares were
going to double in value, many people in Mel-
bourne bought them from £1 up to 285., praying
meanwhile that by the time they arrived from
London they would show a big profit. They were dis-
appointed, and the shares have since been thrown on to
the market at their risk. London holders have preferred
selling to buying, with good reason. When the mine was
floated in Loudon fully 99 per cent, of the issue had to be
takpn by the underwriters, wiio have only had this
opportunity of getting their money back, and naturally
seized it. The writer does not anticipate any substantial
improvement in this scrip until two things have been
proved—that the mine is as rich in tin as it has been
represented, and that there is sufficient “ get away ” for
tailings, no matter how great the quantity treated.
• » • •
Tas. mineral export for 1901 was valued at-
£1,778,234. Previous year, £1,638,001.
* * » *
Tasmania mine,: Latest crushing, 2080 tons for
2812J0z., an average of loz. 7dwt. lirr. per ton. Value of
Xmas cake, £10,540. Total value of gold w'on to date,
£1,067,484 is. 3d. (be careful of the 15d). Dividends paid,
£760,071 15s. (Don’t despise the 155.).
• * * •
Lake View Consols: Shares, £6 ss. in London.
A rise of 10s. in a few days, probably on account of a 10s.
dividend recently declared, but a fall of nearly £3 in three
months, and that represents a depreciation of nearly
£750,000. The consulting engineer, Mackinnon, in a letter
written the end of October, said that after all there was
not so great a difference between his estimate of the ore
reserves and that of the manager, Hartman, when his
(Mackinnon’s) estimate of 50,000 tons of loz. ore was
taken into consideration. The chief point where he
differed from Hartman was that he said the condition of
the ore reserves and the present appearance of the bottom
level did not justify a careful man in erecting additional
plant. He concluded : “ Subsequent development may,
and I hope will, justify this course, but it is
not A chance which I would care to take.” Up till
August last there had been spent on the equipment and
development of this mine £383,279, all of which, except
£36,660, had been paid for out of gold produced, and had
been written off the profit made previous to 31st
August. This, it is said, left a balance of £78,683 over the
expenses and the July div. The new Deihl plant and the
October div. had since absorbed this sum, so that the co.
now had the last six months’ profit, estimated at over
£lOO,OOO, intact. Probably the profit on the Dec. returns
will enable a 10s. div. to be declared. Mackinnon’s en-
gagement is up in April when it is 10 to 1 he will leave.
The mine cannot stand a candid consulting engineer.
.•* • »
The big W.A. mines for the last month of 1901:
Great Boulder, 8455 tons, 14,1390 z. —the record return,
and about IOOOoz. more than previous month. Lake
View, 10,505 tons, for 13,4380 z falling-off of about a
thousand ozs. for the month, and the shares improved
nearly £1 on the strength, or weakness, of it, whichever
you like. For a glaring market inconsistency these two
mines present an object lesson. The first-named is opened
1400 ft. in depth, and the lowest working level looks like
becoming the best. It has certainly as many years’ work
in sight as the Lake View has months, yet the market
valuation of the two mines is about the same. At £1 a
share, which is more than the average of Boulder
shares for last six- months, the market valuation
is £1,750,000. At £6 15s. per share, the Lake
View, at time of writing, has a market valua-
tion of nearly £1,700,000, and the average market
valuation of the last 12 months is much higher than to-
day. Several men have reported on the ore-reserves, and
if all the gold left in sight in the mine was profit, admit-
ting the most optimistic of all the reports, it would not
represent more than half the mine’s market value. The
Great Boulder has been a steady div.-payer for a number
of years. The Lake View paid very heavy dividends one
year and none at all the nex,t. One mine is worked for the
benefit of the shareholders, and generally in a legitimat e
way ; the other for market purposes. The oversold shares
of the Boulder would probably not represent 10 per cent,
of its share issue ; Lake Views are oversold probably far
beyond the share issue. , One man alone is said to have
sold over 20,000. In fact, so many are oversold that some
London brokers decline to put out any more, and the
“backwardation” in one settlement, some weeks ago,
amounted to 3s. 6d. a share—a nice price for carrying
shares over for 14 days.
* * ■* * .
Great Fingall Consolidated : 65030 z. for the
month from 3546 tons, and the lode has been struck in
the No. 8 level of equal size and richness to that above..
Shares reached £l6 in London the other day, and are
likely to go to £2O within the next few weeks. The pub-
lic is in doubt as to whether the larger plant on
this mine will start as soon as it is ready, or
whether it will be kept back until the new shaft is down
the required depth to handle a greater tonnage. It is
said that sufficient ore to keep the big plant going can be
drawn through the old shaft if another small shaft in the
vicinity is used for conveying timber, &c. If that is done
this mine will probably double its output within the next
few months : if, on the other, hand, it has to wait until
the new shaft is down, and levels are put out from it, no
substantial increase can ’ take place for the next six
months. This is beyond doubt the biggest mine in W.A.
» * * *
Associated Gold Mines: 3217 tons, 30470 z.
Something less than an ounce to the ton, which might
pay, but cannot give any substantial profit. It is
announced that the whole of the sulphide plant started
operations on the 4th inst., with the exception of five
grinding pans. This will mean a double tonnage, and
possibly a double gold production. For the next few
months, at any rate, this mine may be expected to
turn out 5000 to 6000 ounces a month from 6000 to
7000 tons of ore. The ore reserves are limited,
unless under half-ounce ore can be made- to pay,
which is, the writer thinks, impossible on this
mine, or any other that has to deal with sulphides.
Unless some important development’’takes place this
year, the enormous plant, which cost over £250,000 in the
first instance, and has taken over a .year to remodel at
great further cost, will close down for the want of payable
ore. The mine’s main hope is the striking of the Brown-
hill and Northern Associated run of gold. If it continues
the course it has in the Oroya, it will be found in the
Associated, which has already started to bore for it. Yet
this mine, which has not paid a dividend for two years,
has a market valuation of nearly £1,250,000! 1
* * * *
Golden Horseshoe : The usual 15,000 odd
ounces from 10,000 odd tons. Shares £ll, a market
value of £3,300,000, upwards of £1,500,000 higher than
that of the Great Fingall, or the Great Boulder. All on
account of the manner in which the shares are held and
manipulated. For some time past every effort has been
made to distribute them in Paris. If a plan were issued
showing the hole made in the G.H. lode by the taking
away of 10,000 tons each month, what effect would it
have on the shares?
* • * *
Ivanhoe: 10,109 tons, 11,0530 z. The gold out-
put of this mine hxs considerably improved during last
two months, yet it is not in keeping with the largely in-
creased tonnage. Already, it is nearly down to an ounce
proposition. Fortunately for this mine, it has little or no
tellurium and very little sulphide ore to deal with, or the
increased expenditure would make a substantial reduc
tion in the divs. These do not warrant present price o.
shares, £7 155.-a market value of a lit,Me over £1 500.000
South Kalgurh : 2500 tons, 2512 oz.—the highest
yield by over 600 oz. Eighteen months continuously
crushing without a dividend. Surely it cannot be far off
one now I
* A * * *
Tarcoola (S.A.); The Mines Minister says, after
the holidays, the labor conditions of the leases will be
strictly enforced. He has already forfeited some leases
where ample time had been given to man them, and no
work was done. There seems to be one or two fairly
good mines in this camp, but the first crushings, although
good, have not been good enough to indicate a permanent
field. All over the world the rule is that first crushings
of new goldfields have been the best. There are excep-
tions, of course, but, as in most other things, they only
prove a rule. With gold as with most other metals, the
best is generally near the surface ; the first 100 ft. are
generally worth more than the next 200 ft., and the
average of first crushings is usually more than double
that realised when the fields become permanent. It was
so at Bendigo and Ballarat (Vic.), and at Charters Towers
and Gympie (Q.). N.S.W. does not count. So also at
Kalgoorlis and Coolgardie, and no doubt at Tarcoola.
* * * *
Victorian Mt.-Morgan announces its 28th call.
A nice name for a mine of that kind.
• * * *
The cheapest mining done in Victoria is at
Ellesmere, in the Bendigo district, where the ore bodies
are well oxidised, and the gold free, though fine. The
formation in some places is as wide as 70ft. Last half-
year the Thomas United mine started with a credit
balance of £39 16s. 3d., and crushed 6750 loads for 40ioz.
16dwts. gold, representing a value of £1512 4s 9d.' The
expenditure amounted to £1457 15s. 4d. The dirt
averaged ldwt. sgr. per ton, and the total cost of mining
and treating was 4s. Id. per ton. The Stewart’s United,
on the same field, crushed 6596 loads for 4580 z. 16dwts.,
or an average of ldwt. 9gr., at a cost of 4s. 6d. per ton
for mining and treatment, and the profit enabled a 3d.
div. to be distributed. The Stewart’s Extended Co. has
been operating on higher grade stuff than any of the
other mines' on the field. Its average for the last 12
months was 3dwts. 18gr. per ton, and £lO3O was paid in
divs.
♦ * * *
Vesuvius: It started to try and find gold in
Charters Towers over 10 years ago, and while engaged in
that, so far, fruitless occupation it has made 79 calls,
and will probably make another 79 before it succeeds.
When it commenced operations it was given out that a
few calls would be sufficient to pick up some well-known
reef. At one time it was one reef; at other times some
other reef. It was generally some other when the reef
previously looked for had become too poor to work in the
adjoining mine. At present it is looking for some other
reef.


PAVIP JONES'COMPANY
HIGH-CLASS HATTERS.
High Grade Selected Fur Framed Felt,
11/6 to 17/6.
First Grade Fur Framed Felt,
10/6, 11/6 to 15/6.
AND
Same Shape in Pedal Straw, 9/6,10/6.
George & Barrack
SYDNEY
THE NEW
MILITARY
FIELD GLASS
I
TT
Very Powerful. As used by
Officers of the British Army
in South Africa. Quickly
Focussed. Magnifying 5 times.
In Solid leather Sling Case.
65/-, Aluminium 85/-.
WOOD, “The Optician,”
Only Address in N.S. W.—
299 GEORGE=ST. (op. Hunter-st.), SYDNEY
. . AND . .
Equitable Buildings, Elizabeth-St., Melbourne.
EPILEPTIC FITS ! TBEHC "’ S BEME ° Y '
Immediate Relief. Permanent Cure. Valuable
Booklet FREE.
Union Manufacturing Co., 361 Collins-st., Melbourne.
EVA BRAHAM,
LADIES’ HAIRDRESSER,
From H. P. Trueeitt, 114 Old Bond Street, London,
Pupil of Dr. Gurney, M.D., L.K.C.P., L.R.C.S., Harley
Street, Cavendish Sq., London, W.
HAIR <sc SKIN TREATED.
CONSULTATION GRATIS.
Pamphlet on the Art of Preserving the Complexion,
Hair, Nails and Feet, POST FREE.
HENNA TINCTURE
for STAINING GREY HAIR.
Harmless and Effectual. In three
shades—Black, Brown, and Light Brown. 3s. per case.
Hair Stained from 21s.
LADIES’ ORNAMENTAL HAIR made up in all Newest
Styles. Prices Moderate.
Removal of Superfluous Hair and Chiropody by an Expert.
EVA BRAHAM,
15 First Floor, Equitable Buildings,
George Street, Sydney, near g.p.o.
Home Cigarettes.
THE LATEST BULLETIN.
They are the Sweetest, the Nicest, the
most Commonwealthiest Cigarette.
All Tobacconists.
SOCIETY
LEROY
LIQUEUR
BRANDY
THE SANDAL VOGUE
M RS. SUDDS: “ There’s one fashion we’re
set , anyhow. But now we'll have to put
our kids inter boots since everybody has took
to copyin' us!”
Curious epistle recently received by a
N.S.W. Clerk of Petty Sessions :
Sir,—Notwithstanding my residence to the Richmond
River ; Bolivia or Lisrnore as this District in winter is to
cold Last winter and this winter before this I was sick
the whole winter, but since the winter went the warm
weather has came in I am in Good Helth. You will
oblige me by letting me know what to do. Please direct
—Yours, &c., .
Of 50 returned cohentingenters examined
as applicants for the Federal draft, jnist one-half
were rejected as medically unfit —most of them
suffering from heart disease. They were all
medically guaranteed as sound before going to the-
war, and there can be no doubt, therefore, that,
their heart troubles are the direct result of cam-
paigning and its attendant over-exertion, or of
enteric fever, complicated with bad nursing.
Australia is just beginning to realise the price it
must pay for its Jingoism. A man with a heart
trouble is a man with the energy and capacity for
hard work knocked out of him—a weakling at
whose ear Death is always whispering a warning
to go slow, incapable alike of resolute exertion, or
of producing children of lusty breed. And it
seems as though half of our returned soldiers, ex-
clusive of those maimed, are cursed with “heart
troubles.” Contingentitis will afflict Australia
unto the third and fourth generation !
♦ * * *
Victorian Minister of Lands Duggan
wants Parliament to sanction the purchase of 300
acres of land beyond Brunswick, the “yaller
pup” suburb, to be re-sold on easy terms to work-
men so that they may possess their own homes.
O’Sullivan’s rival scheme, in Sydney, is to build
huge tenement houses on the resumed area, so
that the workman may have his two to five-
roomed home up three or more flights of stairs,
after the fashion of the British or American
manufacturing city. It is an awful example of
the evils of centralisation, when it is proposed, in
a State where there are less than five persons to
tlie square mile, to box some hundreds of people
together in a sky-scraping rabbit warren, where
one Saturday night drunk ’nay keep more folks
awake than can be found in many a western
county.
* * • ♦
Two members of Melb. Benevolent Asylum
committee nurse a grievance against their
brethren. The hailstorm of a while
ago broke 276 panes of glass, and
the demand for glaziers was
so great just then that the
broken windows of the Ben.
might have
continued to
let in the
draught for
weeks if the
superintend-
ent had not
discovered
a n antique
glazier among
the inmates.
This poor old
friend-in-need
started on the
job with en-
th u si asm,
and in con-
sideration of
his valuable
but unpaid
services the
superintend-
ent suggest-
ed a gratuity.
So the cond-
uct tee, after
a long and
wild discus-
sion, voted
one guinea to
the window-
mender, to be paid
at the rate of not
more than 3s. per
week, lest he
might get carried
away by the sud-
den tide of pros-
perity, and dissi-
pate the remnants of
his constitution in a
razzle. Two commit-
teemen, however, pro-
tested against the be-
stowal of 21s. in seven in-
stalments on the man who
mended 276 windows. They
said the principle was vicious,
subversive of precedent, and
calculated to stand a sound
and well-considered system
of benevolence on its ear.
They wasted fully £2 worth
of their valuable time in
protests, and the Board has
been hardly speaking to
itself ever since.
Be charity. A Once Lost Soul employed at
a Salvation Home, which syndicate concern works
under the cloak of charity and is subsidised by a
sleepy Australian Government, recently threw a
70-year-old man down a flight of stairs. The old
fellow paid 3d. for a bed, but washed in a basin
used by the 6d. bedites, and for doing this the
representative of Booth ejected him so violently
that he disfigured the old feibiw’s nose, cut open
his head, and did other injuries. The Salvarmy
gentleman was summoned and appeared in court
with his badge pinned on his breast. The magis-
trate let him down lightly with a £lO fine and a
severe warning.
HIS CYNICAL FRIEND.
GREAT MAN (finishing a story of his exploits): “I realised that I stood alone with my Creator.”
NON-ADMIRING FRIEND : “ And did the Deity seem very much embarrassed?"
The coupon-craze has taken on a new
phase in Melbourne, where drapers and other
shopkeepers are now offering a voucher for every
sixpence spent over their counters. Five hundred
vouchers entitle the holder to a ticket for the d.c.
or front stalls in any local theatre. The idea has
caught on.
* + *
A lady writes from an address in Hunter-
street, the heart of the business portion of
Sydney
A one-time fine singer of plantation songs in America is
now coughing the last bits of her lung away in a dark,
dank cellar in this building. She shares its mildew and
dismalness with her negro husband and a small product in
the form of an animated stick of liquorice, aged ten, who
helps to absorb the limited amount of available oxygen.
This one underground room in a city building of offices
provides parlor, bedroom, kitchen, and scullery for three.
I have tried vainly to get this woman removed to some
sanatorium ; but the Government, that has such a craving
to eliminate tuberculosis, confines its efforts to placard-
ing walls of public buildings with instructions where
and how to spit, and domestic reflections on the
way to air clothes. Clamored at the hospitals, with
the result that an ambulance came, with great cere-
mony, and took the lady for a week, returning
her with the cheerful intimation that if she went back to
the cellar she would die at once, and that her husband
(who earns 255. a week) had better get a cottage in the
country and a trained nurse. Went to the Health Office,
and was told to tell a policeman. Told the policeman,
who said it wasn’t a case for him, but if we would put her
in the street he could take her up for being unlawfully ill
in public. He also informed me that I would be fined
for keeping her, as “ lungs were catching.” He there-
upon put his nose down the staircase, but drew back
that organ hastily as he “ had a brother that died of
consumption.” Have been to all (and there are many) of
the charitable institutions in vain, as the woman, unfor-
tunately, has not managed to get ill according to their
rules, of which there are 178. Either she is too ill or else
she has something “ they don’t take.” Strangers
coming into the building hear the strangling
cough and struggles for breath, and forthwith flee
the place, saying that the “ proper authorities should
be informed.” No 'lodging-house will now take a con-
sumptive person, and the constant stirring-up of public
dread has so far only resulted in inhumanity to the suf-
ferers without benefit to the healthy.
A little district nurse, who gives kindly ministrations
in washing the patient (she isn’t the usual pious person,
who keeps to the frilly part of nursing—the flower-bring-
ing and tract-reading), says she knows of dozens of cases
just like this. “If she waits, perhaps one of the 13 beds
in Thirlmere Home may be vacant,” nurse remarked,
hopefully, as though dissolution was a thing that could
be postponed indefinitely.
Meanwhile, the Government continues to put placards
upon the walls.
* * * *
Extract from recent S.M. Herald wedding
repdrt: —“The bride cut the wedding-cake with
her brother’s bayonet, which he carried through
the war in South Africa for 17 months.” Think
of having your wedding-cake cut with the weapon
which (if that brother had been well to the front)
is supposed to have' been clotted with the blood
of dead Boers! It suggests the hang-gentleman
taking the rope home to suspend the leg of meat
with, or the old-time Inquisitor trying to extract
his young wife’s corn with the thumbscrew.
* • 9 *
Old John MTntyre, Tory M.L.A., who,
in his youth, marched with the Maryborough
contingent to the assistance of the revolting
diggers of Eureka, nearly broke the heart of an
old Bendigo resident at the opening of the Exhi-
bition in that city, He was relating an incident of
the visit of the Duke of Edinburgh in ’7O.
MTntyre was Mayor of Bendigo at that time,
and to him fell the duty of showing H.R.H. over
the sights. They drove about the town, inspected
everything worth inspecting, and, as they re-
turned, very hot and dusty, Alfred inquired if
there were such things as swimming-baths in the
place. The new baths, it happened, were just then
Bendigo’s proudest boast, and it was the work
of a very few minutes for MTntyre to clear the
common persons out of the water and place it at
the disposal of theßoyal party. As they undressed,
the 4y.ord went round that the Duke was having a
swim, and loyal Bendigonians, in a frenzy of excite-
ment, gathered about the building, and, by clam-
bering up the walls and standing on each other’s
shoulders, endeavored to get a glimpse of Royalty
in the nood. One of these invaders met with some
■success, and, unable to contain his elation, he
glued his eye to a hole in the frosted glass of the
window and cried exultantly, “ I can see the
Duke’s back.” MTntyre, close at hand hit on
the window with his open hand, and there was a
stampede. “And the best of the joke,” con-
tinued the story-teller, “was that it wasn’t the
Duke’s back he saw at all. It was mine.” As the
laugh died, a grizzled old fellow rose from the
corner of the room and staggered out a broken-
hearted man. For 30 years the ope joy of
his life had consisted of telling everybody
how he had once seen the Duke of Edinburgh’s
back, and now MTntyre had come up to Bendigo
to snatch his only pleasure from him.
* • * *
The muddle over Hunter-street, Sydney,
which the Tramway Department tore up the
week after the Municipal Council had re-made the
roadway at great expense, will open the eyes of
Sydney’s new, imported Town Clerk, as to the
vagaries of the Council’s office. The Tramway
men had notified the civic authorities six months
previously of their intention to tear up the street,
an intention which formed part of a large scheme.
But six months is a long time, too long to expect
the Council to remember, hence the muddle.
THE STARS AND L
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
B-side the creek the myalls swing and sigh,
A little bird is chirping in its sleep
The sedges makes a song like waters deep ;
And we are all alone—the stars and I.
Dear Heart come soon, come soon, the hour is late.
The stars are throbbing in a purple sky ;
We wait your comi.fg, Love —the stars and I
Ah ! how much longer—longer must we wait?
Hush ! Far away a night-bird calls his mate ;
Hark ! Far away a horse’s hoof-beats ring ;
The bird and I, dear Love, have cause to sing—
For you are come—although the hour is late.
The myalls whisper now—they do not sigh ;
The moon is only far-off, weary, old ;
The stars are far too distant, vague and cold —
I**or we are in the darkness—you and 1.
NELLIE M. FIELD.
SONNET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My lady sleeps ! and there is time for me
To gaze out where the blurred clouds curl and twine
And dip their hot lips in the ruby wine
Poured from the bowls of sunset to the sea.
Yet, she seems paler than the sea-crests be.
Ah ! what if, silently and without sign,
Death brought her message of the All-Divine
Then left her sleeping on all sleeplessly ?
I lift htr hands —how damp they are and chill:
I seek her breasts that still are as despair ;
And lo ! the red wine of the sunset sweeps
And swims into her cheeks as if to fill
The chalice fashioned of her drooping hair.
“ Day dies ” —I whisper low—“ My lady sleeps 1”
MILKY WHITE.


Only a little higher in price than other gin
but absolutely the best in the world. One size
only—largest size, each bottle contains 1 quart
and l-15th. Full strength, 16’5 u.p. It is manu-
factured by Messrs. Jno de Kuyper and Zoon
Rotterdam. It is the best known and most,
largely used in every country. Those who are
careful about the quality of the stimulant they
take should ask for J.D.K.Z., and they will get
the best value for their money. Agents for
N.S.W.: LUCAS LOCK & CO., Macquarie
Place, Sydney.
dj.
59
3
TheWhiskyof The Wise
f
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers’
Gazette, and Sailing List with map.
THOS. COOK & SON,
239 Collins-st., Melbourne. 4 Hunter-st., Sydney.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
• •
K uppers EVberfeld Lager.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Australia's
Leading Tonic
Beverage.
Another of the villainous pieces of what
practically amounts to blackmail in connection
with N.S.W. Education Dept, came to a head
last week. “At a meeting” (engineered by the
same old gang of toadies who are to the forefront
in every squeezing movement of the kind) “ of the
teachers_ and officers of the Department at the
Girls’ High School, Sydney, on 9th March last, it
was decided to recognise the conspicuous bravery
and ability of comrades who had fought in
S’Africa, and so highly honored the profession.
It was considered that small contributions from
every teacher and officer in the service would
furnish a sufficient fund with which to provide
suitable souvenirs expressive of admiration for
returning confreres, and mementoes for the fami-
lies of any who, in the fortunes of war, had given
their lives for their country.” In short, a circular
“ inviting ” contributions was sent out under the
aegis of high officialdom, and the poor sweated
devils of teachers, having ashrewdidea of what non-
compliance might mean, cursed the Department
but “parted up.” “ The souvenir is a handsome
one, and very appropriate, bearing on the obverse
side the figure of a soldier, with the words ‘For
kin and flag ’ ” (probably a bad printer’s version of
‘For Cohen and flag.’) Opportunity was taken
by the bumptious Minister Perry to get off his
chest a more or less grammatical collection of in-
sufferable commonplaces.
* * * *
The anxiety of the O’Sullivan to preserve,
at public expense, the recollections of the Rocks
before that bit of Old Sydney is cleared away, is
rather an artificial emotion at best. O’Sullivan
himself is painfully modern, and nobody suspects
him of being a man of artistic sympathies, though
in his own laboriously-versatile way he tries to
prod himself into the belief that he is. And the
Rocks, after all, are mostly as new as O’Sullivan
himself. They are probably the oldest thing of
their kind in Australia, but they represent a very
new kind of antiquity, after all. Of course, there
is always the consolation that if you get a paint-,
ing of a place 50 years old, and preserve it care-
fully, that painting 100 years hence will be a
picture of a place 150 years old. But in Europe
almost every third or fourth house is older than
most of the Rocks, and by comparison with
Nuremburg, Moscow, Venice, the Old Town of
Edinburgh, Perth, Stirling, Chester, and hundreds
and thousands of other places, the paint isn’t dry
yet on O’Sullivan’s relic.
* * » *
“Jap”: Overheard in King-st. (Sydney)
t’other day. Top-hatted and gesticulating gent
to TELEGRAPH-board crowd : “1 tell you it’s not
the poor, ignorant Boer, unable to read or write,
who is to blame for the prolongation of the war ;
it is Campbell-Bannerman and Morley (cheers), it
is their speeches which the poor ignorant Boer
reads and ponders over which give him a hope of
independence (more cheers).” The picture of the
illiterate Boer sitting comfortably at home in his
armchair reading a paper published in a foreign
language was too strong for me. I left.
V * * *
“ H.P.” : “At Portland (Vic.), the other
day, some workmen at the local railway station
dug up a perfectly preserved shark’s
tooth, which was buried
in about 15ft. of
solid limestone.”
That shark must
have visited
Portland long
before Edward
Henty settled
there. The
Hentys came
after some of
the sharks, and
now some of the
sharks are after
the ■ Hentys.
The recent
family lawsuit
over a matter of
£ll,OOO (part of
old man Henty’s
fat estate) was
dragged out to a
length of 40 days or so,
at a cost exceeding the
sum in dispute. How the
ghost of that old shark whose
grave was annexed by the first
Henty must laugh as he sees
his kindred getting even with
the family.
.* » *
Loyal Melbourne persons
travelling on the Albert Park
trams daily receive a shock to
their “ Imperial sentiment ”
when passing a South Melb.
lumber - yard. Standing erect amongst the
ruins of old cabooses and second-hand buildings
that were superannuated as a result of the opera-
tions of the Fitzgibbon sewer board, is a tre-
mendous lathe and plaster statue of the almost
forgotten. Queen Victoria. The effigy is the
one that surmounted the Queen’s arch in Collins-
street at I)uke-o’-York time, and it is planted in
a position of shameful eminence, proudly waving
its putty sceptre over piles of garbage, a pathetic
monument of faded glory, busted fireworks, and
forgotten pathos. It is probably fated to
commence a useful career as the hall-mark of
somebody’s cheap eating-house.
* * * *
Sydney Morning Herald, of all papers
in the world, recently published this :
T ADY, comfortable private home, like Gentleman
share Room; board if required.
A few indifferent persons wandered up to
the Melbourne Art Gallery to see Dufrayer’s
scarf, “ worked by the late Victoria’s very own
hands,” a plain, drab, woollen scarf, with tasselled
ends and V.R.I. in red thread in the corner.
Mostly a casual glance sufficed the critics, who
seemed quite unimpressed by the decoration, and
opined “their own mother could make a better
scarf any day.” Writer expected to see a crowd
of Jingoes worshipping afar off, but could only
discover three who seemed to take the slightest
interest in the maker of the scarf. These were
undesirable immigrants, alleged fellow - subjects
from Bengal, who passed from the exhibit to
Herkomer’s Libel on Her Majesty, at the end of
the hall. After gazing long and carefully, they
inquired if it was really the dead Queen, and,
being assured that it was, they remarked some-
thing in a loud but unintelligible tone, and passed
out. It may have been an expression of deep
regret tempered by dutiful loyalty —but it sounded
more like a cry of “Rats” in a dead language.
By the way, Herkomer’s artistic shock has
been removed from its former abode in the
entrance-hall and replaced by E. P.. Fox’s copy of
Velasquez’s “ Topers.” The effect is less sadden
ing on hesitating visitors.
“ Jaf ” : Is it a fact that a
woman cannot keep a secret even
“ under chloroform ” ? I knew a
woman in a large hospital who
was “building up” to undergo
an operation by a distinguished
surgeon with a—er —doubtful
domestic reputation. Patient
and nurse became “chummy”
and the operator was discussed.
The nurse gave, in strict confi-
dence, a harrowing account of
his career, his wickedness, his
drinks, his best girls, the things he
threw at his own wife, and the bangles
he gave to other men’s wives. “ Under
chloroform” the patient tpld the facts in
full. At the end of the operation the sur-
geon bowed to the nurse “I did not think
we were so well acquainted, madam.”
A wooden cup, purporting to be the one
George Dibbs presented to the late Parkes,
changed hands in Sydney the other day for 15s.
There was a cup so presented. Dibbs was in gaol
WOMANLY.
HIM: “I didn’t know Miss Rouge painted.”
HER: “ Oh, no, she doesn’t —she only powders a
little!”
for debt, and to while away the time Parkes lent
him a lathe, the outcome being the present.
When Parkes and Dibbs quarrelled politically,
the former brought the cup to the House one
night, and held it up to illustrate certain remarks.
The Curator seized it at his death.
WHERE THE ANTI-EXPEC-
TORATION LAW DOESN’T COME IN.
SHE (to her new housemaid): “So you took your
first money home to your mother, Tilly. And
what did she do with it?”
TILLY: “Mother said it was for ‘Good Luck,’
and so she spit on it, and father spit on it,
and I spit on it!”
Inquiry into the Roxana boating disaster,
Moreton Bay (Q.) on Boxing Day, showed that
the owner had never sailed a boat before, but had
been out in one twice. He took a party of 14, all
told, most of them boys. The boat jibed, heeled
over and nine were drowned, including the owner
and his two little sons.
* * * •
It transpired in a N.S.W. police-court last
week that one Dowling, who, after shooting his
wife several times, seriously wounded a police-
sergeant, was armed with a couple of up-to-date
revolvers, whereas the sergeant’s only weapon
was an ancient Colt’s muzzle-loader! Yet the
best Smith and Wesson or Webley pistols could
be bought by the Government at £2 each.
» * * *
In a certain N.S.W. town an eviction
order has been proceeding slowly for many days.
One person, who claims the property under a
deed of gift, gave orders for the roof to be
removed. The occupants—three women—were
not abashed by that, and refused to shift. The
owner then gave orders for the rest of the building
to come down, and now all that remains of it is a
chimney. But the tenants budged not, and what
furniture the house contained stands forlornly
up to keep the chimney from feeling lonely, and
three sturdy housewives may be observed vainly
endeavoring to hang their second-best bonnet
behind a door which isn’t there. Fortunately, the
moon rises very late now, or going to bed in this
“house” might be a public function performed
under disadvantages.
* * * *
Bishop Stone-Wigg, of New Guinea, des-
cended on Sydney Domain last Sunday to preach,
and, incidentally, to tickle the groundlings with
the exhibit of part of a skull, the relic of a cannibal
feast—the details of which were described. A
religious service which embraces a realistic des-
cription—with bone exhibits —of a cannibal feast
should prove a great draw ; but the idea might be
improved upon by getting a band of savages to
set up their al fresco cooking-pot and boil a dummy
missionary under a spreading Moreton Bay fig-
tree. In these days of competition the churches
must make their services attractive and keep an
eye on the props and scenery.
Dear Bulletin.—fie mis-
management of S’African ca
paigri. I can give two
instances. In my regiment
(Bethune’s Mounted Infantry)
both men and horses were
frequently without rations.
On at least half the occasions
this was caused by the few
waggons of our convoy being
loaded with officers’ furniture
and grog. Coming off picquet,
one morning, counted 11 empty
whisky bottles lying around the
officers’ quarters, while the
men had not tasted food for
24 hours. On another occa-
sion, saw a trooper of my
squadron, who was sent out
with a reconnoitring party,
riddled with shrapnel from
our own guns. This was the
fault of the eye-glassed
Johnny in charge of the
battery, who mistook our
patrol for Boers. No
wonder the war still
». drags on. —GI.M.
WhenMaori-
land’s eighth
contingent was
being enrolled,
the Minister for
Hen - Stealing
ukased that the
men might
draw £1 in
advance
each. King
Dick came
jlong and
snorted that
they were to be
allowed to draw
up to £5; and
then he went
down and ad-
dressed the
members of the
local draft and
told them how
good he’d been.
Unfortunately,
tliey were near-
ly all returned
men who had, so
far, been unable to
collect their back pay
for the last expedition,
and they shouted deroga-
tory remarks and told (Sed-
don to pay up the arrears before
ho put on superfluous airs. Seddon,
who is beginning to be scoffed at and re-
garded as something of a ridiculous Punch and
Judy show by people who once were humble, not
to say abject, dropped the subject.
The story of the murder of Bertha
Schippan (regarding which the coroner’s jury has
brought in a verdict against the deceased girl’s
sister Mary) has some side aspects which are not
encouraging to the person who “goes on the
land.” The four members of the Schippan family
who were at home dined that day on cold salt
meat. The boys had been out shooting and had
brought home some parrots, which were cleaned
and dressed to be eaten next day. The house was
a small cottage, and the bed was habitually
alluded to in evidence as a “bunk.” Said house
was situated in a lonesome region thirty miles
from anything worth calling a town —a flat
locality where the dust-drifts banked up against
houses and fences. Mention is made of a “ bunk ”
in the kitchen ; and the highest kind of comfort
doesn’t include bunks in the kitchen. Mary
Schippan testified that she habitually slept in her
under-garment, blouse, and stockings—do the
lonesomeness and dust-storms tend, The Bulletin
wonders, to drive a girl to sleeping in her blouse ?
Apparently, a good many of the smaller comforts
of life are an unknown quantity to those who go
on the land, and to those who don’t go on the
land, but are there all the same through having
been born there.
* * M * *
A waitress in a Collins-st. (Melb.) coffee
palace the other evening, stepped into a lift-Well,
and landed 70ft. below, with a broken back—dead.
At the inquest the manager admitted that the lift
was used by the employees only, who had to work
it themselves. The machine was “not what he
would call well-lighted.” The inspection of
lifts and other arrangements of Melbourne
hotels is scandalously neglected. In one big
Bourke-st. hotel the employees sleep in small
hutches along a narrow passage. To get out they
must go along this passage, down another, down
a spiral staircase into a pocket-handkerchief yard,
and then along two right-of-ways into Little
Collins-st. What hope would they have in a fire-
scramble? And the windows (!) of their bed-
rooms are just 24in. by 16in., looking on to a high
wall sft. away.
ENSLAVED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The tear-stained flush upon her cheek
My words have set a-glow ;
Yet tho’ I spoke as tyrants speak,
And Honor bids me pardon seek,
Pride make s me turn to go.
I turn —and two arms white as snow
About my neck entwine,
And red lips kiss and whisper low,
“ Forgive me, love, for well I know
The fault was wholly mine."
vie.
FRANK B.
GENTLE WOMAN.
I’ve often loved a woman. “ with a love that never dies,’;
An’ I’ll say with you she’s dangerous whose weapons are
her sighs;
But I tell you she’s most deadly whom you know is
telling lies
In a saintly sort o’ manner, and with water in her eyes !
VULCAN.


df
KEITH'S CALF GOL. BALS., Welted, 14s. 6d.
If you wish to place
yourself on a good
footing
GO TO
MARK FOVS
FOR
YOUR
BOOTS
Do you tike Coffee
Perfect, Pure,
Fragrant, Exhilarating Coffe
Then Try
T.tH. SMITH'S
Coffee Essence
Winners of the GRAND PRIX against all
Other makers at the PARIS EXHIBI-
TION,'I9OO.
Australian Representatives:
WIFT&, COMPANY.,
7 Spring: Street,
Sydney
m
11 4>
IN TKt
All Drapers Everywhere.
-J-O INTERSTATE VISITORS and OTHERS.
J. M°CLUSKY
(of ADELAIDE),
Has RE-BUILT the ROYAL EXCHANGE, SYDNEY
Comer of George and King Streets, ' "
with Bars and Dining: Rooms thoroughly
up to date. *
A WOMANS LETTER.
__ _ Sydney, January 14, 1902.
My Dear Arini,—•
How many of us, I wonder, have seen a finer
stage picture than in the first act of “Fedora?”
One man, being asked what he'thought of this (to
us) new opera, replied : “I think unutterably of
Fedora’s green dress.” It is of velvet, of a dark
shade of green that reminds one of beetle’s wings,
or moss in a deep shadow, or magnolia leaves in a
strong light. The skirt is cut in battlements that
are bordered with gold embroidery and show pale-
blue silk at the back. Above the green velvet
bodice, with its relief of pale blue, Signorina
Bassich’s face looks warmly colorless, like a magno-
lia flower. To the left of the picture is the crimson-
covered table and grey uniforms of the police,
the red picturesque dresses of the servants, the
professional black of the doctors. The grouping
against the faint brown and blue tones of the walls
is altogether admirable, and the green dress is
always the central point. ‘ » *.
Now and then, as the doctors enter or exit the
murdered count’s bedroom, you get a glimpse of
pink and blue drapery and significantly inert
limbs. A man who sleeps in a bed with a pink
canopy and a sky-blue quilt ought to be murdered.
He couldn’t excuse it, either, by saying, “My
wife likes it ” —because he hadn’t a wife. Again,
in the second act, there’s another good picture:
Bassich, at midnight, in a white negligee of lawn
and lace, and Dani, in knee-breeches of satin and
silken hose, standing under the soft topaz light
against the warm tortoiseshell of the curtains.
By-the-way, I see that it is likely that this fashion
of knee-breeches, silk stockings and buckle shoes
wdl be introduced, during coronation year. The
King is said to favor it, and it is certainly more
picturesque and healthy than the long, lank—you
know _what —the tubular things. As for its
becomingness: Dani is no Apollo in figure, nor
Narcissus in face, and in his 1902 evening suit he
looks just Dani; but he is a really elegant, glori-
fied Dani in those clothes wherein he makes love
to the Russian princess in Sardou’s play.
Signorina Bassich’s hair plastered sleekly down
over her ears like a swathing of black satin might
be Madonna-wise, but it gave her a serpent-of-old-
Nile aspect. She acted capitally, but assumed
“me, extraordinary attitudes—as, for example,
sitting on about half-an-inch of chair, and leaning
across to a table supported by her eye-lashes,
finger-nails, or some such insecure foundation.
Dani and she struggled against the commonplace
all through—but in vain ; the opera does not get
home with one. But the drama is great all the
time. There was a crowded audience. Dolores
was in the manager’s box. Seemingly she wore a
bonnet, but under the lens it proved to be only a
hair decoration. The night was a fearfully trying
one, especially for singers’ voices and violin
strings, which, perhaps, accounted for the occa-
sional cat music that came from the orchestral
fiddles.
Friends of Mr. L. N. Walford and Miss Dolly
Hordern, daughter of Mr. Sam Hordern, are con-
gratulating them on their engagement. They are
to be married next month.. Major E. G. S.
MacLagan, Adjutant of the N.S.W. Scottish
Rifles, marries Miss Kathleen, second daughter of
Major-General French.
Major-Gen. Babbington, who comes to take
charge of Maoriland’s toy army, is married to
Miss Nellie Lawson, a sister of Mrs. Adrian Knox.
They are on their way out.
(( British Australasian has been rounding-up
“ Banjo ” Paterson and D. K. Inglis of this city,
and asking them what they’ve come “home” for,
and what they’ve got in their carpet bags. Mr.
“Banjo” has been dined at the Yorick Club,
Mr. Inglis given a browse at the Stock Exchange.
The former voiced some of his unpublished verse ;
the latter, among a lot of other trifles (including
the Souter-and-Leist-designed addresses, and
some mining concessions), exhibited a new type
of gun he had with him, an Australian invention,
as being certain to command attention. It is a
rather good time to take home a killing machine.
“Banjo” remarks, in his latest letter to the
Herald, on the calm that rests on the War-
Office precincts. No veterans with schemes for
putting an end to the war, no scientists with new
explosives; apparently no visitor but himself, on
the day he called. YVell, we may suppose that
the brooding calm will now be broken by Mr.
Inglis as he balances to corners with his littie gun.
Mr. Paterson is returning weighted with the
honor of Australian correspondent for the Times.
Dr. M. T. Clune, who died at North Sydney
last week, had been laid aside for years by neuri-
tis, but there were many old friends who had not
forgotten the kindly little man with the sweet
tenor voice. He formerly had a large Sydney
practice, yet found time to do rnuch gratuitous
work among the poor. His fatal illness was
direcfly traceable to his sufferings in quarantine
during the smallpox outbreak of several years ago,
so memorable for the disgraceful popular and
official panic that it caused. Dr. Clune’s end was
hastened by a fall downstairs. He leaves.a widow
and daughters, who nursed him tenderly to the
end.
There also died last week in Sydney old Dr.
Eichler, aged 80, who had practised here for half
a century. Fifty years ago he married Miss
Kurtz, companion and governess in the family of
Governor Fitzroy, who survives him with four
sons and three daughters. He was an uncommon
linguist, speaking and reading in eight languages.
His hobby in more prosperous days was growing
roses, .of which he, at one, time, had a thousand
varieties in his Marrickville garden.
The R.C. Church is understood to forbid flowers
at funerals wasn’t there a notice recently from
?n r ; °w ra <r ! to thafc effec , t? Yet I see that at
o e big Sydney funeral conducted with all
ecclesiastical rites flowers were plentifully in
r) la f , the reason of this vetoing of
owers . How is the veto reconcilable with the
French institution of the Jour des Marts which is
so strongly countenanced by the R.C. Church ’
Mayor Hughes, of Sydney, has begun to open
things He started on Mr. Mark Blow’s new
Crown Studio last Tuesday, and, along with the
ra£ ( l f mam ! and Political beauty that accom-
panied him, got photographed. A quartette of
the Stwater StrUng a f6W musical gems of
A woman, looking like one of Mary Wilkins’
maiden ladies, who sew all day and keep their
houses speckless, had been noticed, on several
occasmns, to make long waits on the Manly pier,
at the Quay. One day, when she had been sitting
there close upon two hours, an official spoke to
her, and learned that she was waiting for a boat
™JL a »\ her --3!,T 3 !, to , . Manl y- “But three have
gone, he said whilst you’ve been waiting.”
She looked startled. “ I thought only one travels
‘Si,, > S ' e ■ a “^ ered V ‘‘ one with the na mo
Manly on it. The others were marked ‘Narra-
been and Bnghton.’ I wanted to ask you, but
further? hke t 0 be rude '” Could Politeness go
A week or so ago and we were reading of
settlers and selectors burnt out by bush fires of
orchards destroyed just as they had come to
bearing-age, of fences in ashes, and the results of
nve, ten, or twenty years of labor and waiting
gone up in smoke. Now we are reading of rain
and hail extinguishing bush fires, but killing
where the fire spared. A selector had all his
young chickens slain by the hail ; another, whose
almost sole property was 200 young turkeys,
watched them sheltering under the scrub from
the storm; and as he watched, a huge tree fell on
them, killing or maiming almost the whole flock.
Is it any wonder that persons on the land get to
look upon the struggle for existence as a wasted
ettort and a mere carrying of sand from one heap
to another ?
A correspondent describes to me a picnic on the
.Darling River : “ A few cookies get together,
lorm themselves into a committee, and send in-
vitations to everyone for miles around (20 or 30
miles not too far) stating that they will be pleased
with the company of Mr. and Mrs. So and So and
family to a cockles’ picnic. A special request is
made at the bottom of the invitations to bring
your own hampers, billy-can, &c. And they do
come; they think nothing of driving 30 miles, or
even more. Each party picks out its own gum-
tree, lights its own fire, and boils its own billy.
Next comes foot-racing for the children (which
term includes anyone up to 25 or 30 years
... a o, e ) > • *h o . prizes are generally toys,
silk handkerchiefs, &c. The affair is not
a success _ unless there is a dance at night.
Someone is good enough to lend a room or shed,
x ou must do the best you can if you want a wash,
or your best girl wants to change her dress ; you
go to the river for the wash, and get your girl’s
apron for a towel, and the lady gets behind a
gumtree for a dressing-room. The dance lasts
until daylight next morning, when horses are
harnessed up for a drive home.”
A genuine bush love-letter written by awool-
classer to a storekeeper’s daughter: . ..
~P ear Miss.—l hope you will not be surprised at receivin'"-
this letter, as I have been thinking about it for a long
time. I wish to know whether you will consent to marry
me. I think I will-make you a good husband, and that
3 r ou will make me a gfood wife. Kindly letrnie have vour
reply as soon as possible. Please send me up two tills of
apricot jam (Hoadley’s) by the next coach.—Yours faith-
fully,
a recent Maori wedding in the Wanganui
district 70 Maoris were present, ranged according
to sex on the-sides of'the whafe. The usual
custom of distributing the cake by the bride and
bridegroom having been omitted, one of the
bridegroom’s friends was exasperated and struck
the cake with his spear. In retaliation, one of
the bride’s friends walked down one side, kicked
over the cups, and finally upset the tea-urn over
another Maori. Then everyone “ took the flure.”
No great damage was done. Whare—bridal cake :
spear—tea-urn v A curious mixture of civilisation
and savagery !
I fear that if many more of the crowned and
wedded class fall out and chide and fight, the
practice may spread downwards through the
classes and masses. The Queen of Holland’s
scraps ” with her lord are now ancient history,
and the tales the foreign press are unfolding about
Queen Draga and her Alexander bear a strong
likeness^ to the matrimonial differences that occur
in any Sydney suburban four-roomed house, whose
headisacoal-heaver and whose second-in-command,
goes out a-charin’. “Regtrdless of the presence
of spectators,” says a Viennese paper, “King and
Queen called each other names, some of which are
hardly suitable for publication. Finally, Alex-
ander so far forgot himself as to deal his consort a
sounding box on the ear. Queen Draga burst out
crying, ran from the room to her own apartments,
and drank a quantity of medicine, which, being
poison, ought only to be taken in the smallest
quantities. Instantly regretting her hasty action,
she called for help, which was at once forthcoming,
and she was soon out of danger.” Draga is said
to be a decade older than her Alex., but all of us
can recall instances in which middle-aged ladies
have married young men and the marriages are
confessedly happy. All tact on the part of the
wife, you know. But our “instances,” to be
sure, aren’t kings and queens.
An ex-Australian sends this to me from India :
I have worked on Sussex-street wharf for a bob
an hour all day, and danced at Government House
(m Hainpden’s time) at night. Perhaps the day’s
occupation was the more respectable of the
two, but the curious coincidence was that I danced
with the wife of a squatter whose butcher I had
been in Riverina six months before at 15s. per
I cannot say whether the lady would have
aanced with me had she recognised her late
butcher.” In an oversea State there was, many
years ago, a cabman who on Government House
ball nights would drive fares to the vice-regal
hops, and then get his dress-suit out from under
his seat, dress in the cab, and go into the ballroom
and “balance to corners” with the best of the
company. But he was known and recognised, both
as cabman and society johnnie.
From Paling's come three dainty songs, by Miss
Daisy Chamier : “ I Kissed a Rose,” “A Song of
Evening, ” and her setting of “ The Sea Hath its
Pearls. Prom the same firm, I receive “Love’s
Dream,” “I Never Told Him That” (words and
music by Frederic Solomon), and “ Sing, Posie ”
by Mrs. De Courcy Laffin; also, “Ye Merrie
Night,” by Nellie Blythe and Sydney Shaw.
I rom a friend passing through San Francisco I
get a tale of a cat. He (the friend, not the cat)
was doing the Chinese quarter, and the detective
took him down a ladder into an opium-den. A
mummy-like old Chinaman was filling his pipe,
and on the floor, watching him intently, was a
line white cat, beautifully furred and in capital,
condition. When the pipe began to bubble the
cat leapt on to her master’s shoulder, put her face
close to his, and eagerly inhaled the fumes as they
left his mouth and nostrils. Presently, with aDe
Qumcey expression of ecstasy, she rolled over and
lay stark. For several years she has never missed
her daily opium debauch, and apparently it agrees
with her, for she is a watchful mouser, healthy
and a model mother.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
There was less audience than might have been
expected for the marriage of Mr. A. Burt, of
Westralia, and Miss Florrie. Roberts, at Christ
Church, South Yarra, last Thursday, though a
good number of curious ones came along to see
the sparklmg-eyed bride and the real lace that
split up the ivory satin territory of toilette. It
was a handsome gown of a heavy kind, with this
superfine lace adding richness to the duehesse-
styled fabric. A very Frenchy mode of hair-
dressing, and _ a carefully arranged veil
(fastened with diamond ornaments) gave every
advantage to the bride’s face and figure
Iho bridegroom hails from Mount Margaret
goldfields, and will take his Victorian ruby to
sparkle in the wild and woolly West. Four rather
stunning maids, in Wedgewood blue muslin
strapped with inky bands and cream applique,’
saw the bride through her knot-tving. A shoal of
congratulations washed in at Prahran Town Hall.
“ The two most remarkable guests at the Burt-
Roberts event were Mr. David Mitchell, the hale
and hearty father of the illustrious Melba, and
Mr. George Taylor, a colossal, well-proportioned
fellow of six feet five, hailing from Sydney side—
a cousin of the bride.
“A Melbourne R.C. cleric officiated, the, other
day, at the ‘ splicing ’ of a widow and widower
from the Swan Hill district. They stepped for
the second time to the matrimonial alter rails
with the boast of already possessing eight
children apiece, and added that the sixteen
were prepared to reside in unison under the
same blessed roof as themselves. The same
cleric, who pastors a poor flock, and is only rich
in experience, relates that a couple recently went
to him to be soldered in the bonds for better or
worsa The bridegroom pleaded poverty, so
the I ather did the trick and gave an extra
blessing out of pity. But when the gentle shep-
herd heard, later on that day, that the bridegroom
had entertained a gala party with a champagne
spread, there were razors in the air. And this is
not an uncommon happening.
A week or two ago behind the breakwater of
matrimony the stage career of a chorus charmer
came to a close. This siren, who is of commanding
presence and breathes a purer atmosphere when
she is standing up than do the brief mortals that
creep in the lower strata of the air, had evidently
some excitable friends with a rage for giving her
paragraph advts. Some people have friends like
that, and find them a source of no small trouble.
Every second week an announcement of her
engagement to a Lord Somebody or other arrived
at the offices of the weekly social dribblers. Some-
times it wasn t a lord—only a tea-planter, a wool-
king, a Crcesus of the second degree. Some of
the papers grew weary and dropped the subject
out of their columns. Only one editor sustained
his sympathy and interest to the end. He was a
staunch friend, and kept publishing the eneaee-
ments till the very last. *
“An engagement (long expected in musical
circles) is that of Mrs. Fred. Jolley, a favorite
pianiste of much golden hair, with Mr. H. Marsh,
a good little amateur warbler, and the owner of
one of the highest dog-carts Melbourne knows.
“ ‘ Aladdin’s ’ transformation scene shows Nellie
Stewart looking very pretty in scant white
drapery. Her toilette made scribe think of the
day she helped an indignant mother to swathe her
slippery, squirming babe in a couple of kerchiefs,
when an “absurd boy of a photographer ” Hush-
fully declined to portray, the darling mid nodings
on, as requested.
“ The Perman cake-walkers are a gaudy, frenzied
trio. The men, with gay coat-trimmings and
screaming socks and flaring ties, wear an exag-
gerated air of personal cleanliness and over-clone
fashion, like American bounders, burlesqued and
grafted on to African stocks. A woman with short,
curly hair, scarlet hose and underskirts, and
yellow bell-topper, helps out the ‘turn!’ You
know how warlike roosters scrape their spurs, and
shuffle their wings along the ground. Picture
three brobdignagian, lunatic cock-a-doodles on the
rampage, and you’ll have the ghost of an idea of
the Perman performance. Stage cake-walks re-
mind me of a scrap of a corrobboree seen long ago.
The foot-shuffle, &c., is similar, but corrobboree
takes itself seriously—cake-walk doesn’t.
“With the' Heathen Chinee and the Jappy
Jappee: spreading pig-tail and fan at both the
Princess’s and Her Majesty’s it is no wonder that
things Asiatic should be on top just at the
moment in Melbourne. Among other things, the
Chinese shoe with the retrousse toe is becoming
highly popular for indoor wear. It is one of the
easiest and most comfortable shoes you ever
walked in. The kimona has been the rage much
longer, and the South Yarra dame who gave a
tiffin to a kimona party last week is likely to be
followed by others. The guests changed their
walking rig-out for silk kimonas (the accent on the
kim, as in sunny Japan) at the house of their
hostess, and assembled at tiffin in loose, luxurious
style.
“ Dorothy Vane, tricked forth in white, with
lilac decorating her closed-up, death-in-the-family
sort of blouse, and her moppy thatch, held the
box at ‘Aladdin ’ t’other night, with her husband,
-Rupert Clarke, and Manager Musgrove. Dorothy
applauded everything till her tiny palms stung,
a j ® n J°yed the whole show with childish glee
bashfulness. The same night Madame
olapoffski sat alone seriously following the show
which she had seen so often before. Only at in-
tervals she wakened up, when Mr. Slap came up
to the circle, and gave his arm and his forelock a
short repose.
Both Chinese shows at the Princess and Her
Majesty’s were crowded on Saturday night by a
at P oasec * an d patient public. At ‘ San Toy,*
Maude Chetwynd watched her friend * Callie
Moore from the circle. The wing-heeled Maud
seems to be enjoying her rest, and is picking up
an ounce or two more flesh. Of circleites, Mrs.
Is orton Grimwade, in all grey, gown and cloak,
looked the dressiest. Her polished, black head
was the most elaborate one on view, liven the
attendants in the lounge wear Jappy chrysanthe-
mum-patterned dresses, so anxious is the manage-
ment to be Asiatic all round.
Marshall Hall lies low since his persecutors,
sated with the scent of burnt blasphemer, cut him
loose from the stake to gang his ain gait. Now
that the Hymner travels ‘on his own,” uncon-
trolled by bullying bigots and dour sacerdotalists,
he probably realises regretfully that there are
worse spurs to success than martyrdom.
For all his high falutin ways, ex-Ormond
Professdr Marshall-Hall has an eye to business
puff-methods keener than that of his canny suc-
cessor, Peterson. Note his way of securing
big audiences for his student-concerts ! Cards
are sent out broadcast to people who
bridle complacently when the invitations come
to hand, imagining themselves singled out
by the discerning Maestro as members of a cul-
tured coterie, able to appreciate good music and
willing to express their appreciation to the tune
of two-shillings booking-fee per seat. To ambi-
tious small-fry, a prominent seat in the d.c. is a
real bargain at 2s. Indeed, a pushing nobody
might do worse than engage a private - box
(costing, perhaps, half-a-sovereign to book)
at one of these so-called ‘invitation’ pupil-parades.
It would sound well afterwards to remark casually:
me S ’ me fami] y areal! artistic or musical.
The other dy, when we got a special invite to that
s lect affair of dear Marshall Hall’s, we went strite
to our box and wallowed in the music ! ’
‘‘Said music, by the way. like that of most
ambitious students, creaks with newness, so to
speak, and smells of oil. At that opera matinee, '
the girls levered their voices up stressfully and
hurled them, at the public as if it were hard of
hearing and in need of sound and fury rather than
sweetness. One hard grafter was audibly com-
miserated by a cyclist-hearer for having ‘ blown
herself clean out of wind.’
“Everyone is sorry at the sudden end of Dr. L.
L. Smith’s little golden-haired daughter, who went
to all kinds of functions with her parents. She
had been romping with- some children about a
sheltered bit of the Beaconsfield country when she
suddenly resolved to climb a tree. In swinging
from a branch, the little one fell and broke her
neck. Signor Fiocchi had the unenviable task of
bearing the body at the head of a broken-hearted
party to the Smiths’ home. The child had for a
godfather the late Secretary Sherrard, whose
suicide occurred about this time last year.
“ The seaside girl languishes on the shore this
summer and sighs over the subject of the scarce
male. The season has produced but a scanty
crop ; in fact, windfalls are the only specimens
seen about the sands. At some resorts there had
been rumors 6f mixed bathing, and the girls who
went there allee same, but declared they dreaded
such a thing, are left lamenting that the rumor
is unfounded, and there is no chance to mix.
The . only distractions at the seaside now are
furnished by the cut of the bathing-gownS and
the comparison of manicured toe-nails. The loss
of jewels and molars in the baths continues as in
the days of yore. One proprietor has the pre-
caution placarded about that he will not be
responsible for teeth lost in the deep.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHL.
A N.S.W. man has prosecuted his late best
girl for detention of the engagement ring, and gob
an order, with costs, that either the valuable must
be returned, or 50s. paid, or the girl must take the
consequences in gaol for two months. It appeared
that he had been taken down by a previous girl
for another ring, and possibly that incident soured
him, and made him pursue his new girl with the
uttermost ferocity of the law. There is a ease on
record of a somewhat similar individual, who
became engaged to a girl with deficient teeth, and
who shouted her a superb artificial set. That
engagement was also broken off, and the man
demanded the return of the teeth, and got them—
wherefore the end of that girl was more toothless
than the beginning.


(fitiZ6!lS’ljife]|ssuraiice Company [imited
Premier Industrial-Ordinary Office of Greater Britain.
POLICIES I3XT FORCE EXCEED 210,000.
IMMEDIATE SETTLEMENT OF CLAIMS.
Absolute Security.
Moore and Castlereayh Streets,
Sydney.
Annual Bonuses
Resident Secretary,
W. J. BLOOMFIELD, 8.A., LL.B.
The success achieved by the typewriter
has resulted in a mushroom growth of “new”
machines, whose claims for notice are generally
based on so-called “ new principles.” Such
principles are likely to attract the novice, but
experts know that' these “ new ” machines are
mechanically wrong, and that a few months vvill
see them end on the scrap-heap. Intending
purchasers should shun all such sis they would the
plague, and put their money on a reliable machine
whose principles have stood the test of time.
Such a machine is the “ Yost.” For beautiful
work and durability it has held the palm for 15
years. The agents for the “Yost” are the
United Typewriter and Supplies Co., of Sydney,
Melbourne and Perth.*
Sands’ “Sydney, Suburban and Country Direc-
tory for 1902" has gone back to the well-known and
durable cover of red and gold, and eschewed the garish
wrapping of 16 colors. The Directory is larger this year,
as it was larger last year than the year before. Every-
thing is arranged just as before, and but for the fact that
there is some new information relating to the Common-
wealth and the Federal machine, and everything has been
carefully revised, there is no difference in the book. It is
like the ships of a class in the British navy, in which the
man who has served on any one of them oan find his way
over all the others in the dark, and even the man who
comes off with a huge thirst to a new cruiser finds the
water-tap in exactly the same place. Mr. Sands’mdis-
pens ibie work was collated, printed, bound, and alto-
gether created and made in Australia by Australians.
Owing to the William-goat performances of M'Millan and
co., .Mr. Sands was not able to include the Federal tariff,
as the said tariff was not finished, hut that’s about the
only thing in Sydney that the Directory doesn’t explain.*
FACILE PRINCEFS
SEM PER IDEM.
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
fr-
" Lightest Wines in Australia.
Supplied to H.R.H. the Duke of York,
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Australia s first Federal Premier, Edmund
Barton, will be 53 on Saturday (18th).
When a young man, the late Professor
Morris was all on fire to enter Victorian political
life, but Higinbotham, in his. pessimism as to
politics, dissuaded him.
J. E. Redmond, M.P., has been given the
Freedom of the City of Dublin. The freedom of
the city and the freedom of Ireland are, of
course, two distinct things.
Chief Justice Darley’s malady,
which has necessitated the appointment of a
deputy-deputy-Lieutenant-Govemor, is under-
stood to be a severe attack of bronchitis, compli-
cated with jaundice arising from gall-stones.
Francis Snow, the man who is after Ade-
laide’s valuable tram monopoly, started in that
city as a watchmaker, but by clever business
methods built up a patent agency business worth
a big sum.
Archdeacon Langley, who won the apron
of Bendigo from Archdeacon M'Cullagh by 11 to
2 votes —13 voted—is father of 13 children. The
eldest is a clergyman, and the next eldest a clergy-
man’s wife.
S.M. Herald now dubs Max Nordau
“the leading litterateur.” Max takes Britain’s
side against the Boers. But a little while ago
the Herald called him a neurotic maniac, on
words to that effect.
Deceased ex-inspector Lawless was three
times appointed sergeant of police. He was ser-
geant in England (resigned); emigrated to Vic-
toria ; rejoined the police there, became sergeant
(resigned); shifted to N.S.W., rejoined the police
here, and rose again to be sergeant.
Cardinal Moran, who sometimes shows a
lordly contempt for facts, has been complaining
lately that there is no Roman Catholic on N.S.W.
Public Service Examination Board. As a matter
of fact, out of the six members, two, Professor
Butler and Mr. Walter Edmund, are R.C.’s.
TWENTY YEARS HENCE.
BURGEON: “ What on earth made you think of
trying to enlist?”
THE WEED (proudly): “Sir, I ivas born at the
begining of the war, and was christened
Baden-Powell Kitchener, and I was an-
nounced in the papers of the time as ‘ another
little soldier of the Queen !'”
Speakers, Premiers and almost all other
prominent Australian politicians whose sons went
to the South African war have received letters
from one General or another describing their off-
spring as heroes of the most remarkable character.
Now, who told Methuen, for instance, that young
Mason’s father is Yic. Speaker?
Tom Mann, the London dockers’ cham-
pion of long ago, has sailed for Maoriland, with
the intention of settling down there. Thomas
kept a pub. for some years, but his business seems
to have been subject to too many demands for
free drinks from the unemployed. Also, he was
once fined £lO for watering the beer.
Dr. C. 0. M‘Donald, Mayor of Mount
Gambier, is a slave to duty. He recently sum-
moned himself to appear before himself, charged
with allowing his chimney to catch fire, and
fined himself 10s. If he hadn’t turned up in
answer to the summons he would probably nave
sent himself to gaol for contempt of his own
court.
Bishop Doyle, who has taken no unim-
portant part in the development of the Richmond
River district, at a recent Sunday service, advised
members of his congregation who were tenants to
use every effort to obtain portions of an estate
about to be sold, and thus get rid of the rent-
incubus. This is what might be called the gospel
of common sense.
State Premier Philp, of Queensland,
denies that he is an applicant for the local Rail-
way Commissionership or for a place on the
Inter-State Commission. He says he is coming
back after the election to muddle the State’s
politics just as before. Then the Ministers who
were waiting for Bob’s old shoes gnashed their
teeth, and said how glad they were that their
valued and honored chief would still be with
them. And they looked glad enough to kill some-
body.
At the Highland Gathering at Grafton on
New Year’s Day five nephews of State
John See (sons of two brothers and a sister) w e
amongst the winners. Premier See has not pitcl
forked any of his numerous nephews soft
Government billets. Some of them are employed
as masters and engineers on the n 'f r ’ • -
the North Coast Shipping Co., and they <ue a
men of fine physique.
. Justice Owen’s appointment as Deputy
Lieut.-Governor of N.S.W. is due to the strange
coincidence that there is no State Governor at
present, and that the usual substitutes
Justice and, after him, the President of the Legis-
lative Council-are both ill. Nevertheless, there
are many whispers as to favoritism y \
envious of the Equity Judge s very muc i ",
down dignity of deputy-deputy-deputy btate
Governor.
B. R. Wise or Malcolm M'Eacharn will
probably be the Commonwealth’s High Com-
missioner in London —unless the Cabniebshould
prove so hopelessly divided on the subject as to
render impossible the appointment o ei 1 •
Wise has many brilliant qualifications for the
office; M‘Eacharn’s credentials are that he, is
rich, isn’t Australian, and has never in all ms me
said a single thing which wasn’t worthy of an
alderman of the deepest dye.
Dr. C. F. Eichler, who died on the 10th
was a very familiar figure in Sydney for ov ®F
years. Hisdiplomas(England and Heidelberg)date
from 1857. In the sixties he lived in an old house
in Charlotte-place. In the early seventies-atter
residing in Lady Young’s Terrace for a while the
doctor built a house, which stood i alone in
Bridge-st. for many years. It was a land-marK
until a big wool warehouse was erected, wmcn
overshadowed the medico’s home.
Gurr and Trenwith, two of the dreadful
failures of Peacock’s Victorian Ministry, were
born within a stone’s throw of each other in las-
mania. Apart from being failures, the two men
have nothing in common. Trenwith has one ot
the biggest intellects in Australian politics, but
laziness has come upon him heavily with increas-
ing years. Gurr’s non-success is due rather to
his astonishing lack of intellect. Even for a linen
draper he is woefully deficient in that respect.
Said that Sam Hordern, on calling for ten-
ders for bricks to build his new shops with, found
a curious uniformity in the tenders, which were
all at figures over market prices. To some ol the
brickmakers he consequently unburthened him-
self: “I see what has happened ; a large order
like mine should have brought about a reduction
in market rates, not an increase. Now, I intend
to make my own bricks, and when Ive hmshea
building* the brickmakers will find me a compe-
titor with them in their business.”
Arthur Lynch, the much-discussed new
member for Galway, who is threatened with arrest
if he touches British soil, is M.A. and L.E. ot
Melb. Univ., whose undergrad organ says :
During Lynch’s course his name frequently appeared in
the honor lists of the ’Varsity. His tastes were for
literature and the higher branches of science, so' he
proceeded to Berlin, .and thence to Paris, to study philo-
sophical subjects. . . . Mr. Lynch has published several
books, and is writing a work on the higher branches or
mathematics, which will he shortly in the press. As a
literary man he is well known j and as a platform speaker
his addresses are marked by much earnestness and
eloquence.
“ W.K.” writes :
Re Bulletin par (28/12/’01) concerning the finding of
prospector Connolly’s skeleton at Mount Pehon (Tas.).
Writer is pretty well acquainted with the circumstances,
and has never heard that anyone was suspected in
connection with Connolly’s disappearance. He left
Rosebery alone with rug and tucker. These were found
a few days afterwards in a hut untouched. A heavy
snow-storm occurred about this time, and it is thought
he wandered from the hut and failed to make it again in
the blinding drift. The skeleton was found on a clear
space known as February Plain, 10 miles from the track.
The clothing, in which was found a sum of money, was
well preserved, but the bones were stripped of flesh,
probably by ants.
“G.” writes : Ballarat Mining Exchange
welcomed a returned soldier the other day with the
usual “heartfelt” patriotism that fills the breast of
the man who stays, as Dooley says, behind the guns
—4ooomiles behind them, and pays the expenses by
docking the old age pensions. The president, a
party by the name of Brawn, was nobly scornful
of all pro-Boers, and wildly enthusiastic about the
determination of other Australians to shed their
blood for the Hempire.
Australia’s bone and muscle go
In cause unjust o’er seas to fight
And bring on others direst woe ;
The while its Brawn stays home to skite.
This is the kind of pap London Answers
serves up to its guileless readers ;
The merest chance made Mr. H. C, Wilson, a Sydney
solicitor, a millionaire. When old Tyson, the eccentric
millionaire, died in Australia without leaving a will, the
young solicitor set himself the task of finding the sole
heir—a daughter of 18 years, named Elsie Tyson. After
two years, he gave up the search. Having lost his way in
Texas, United States, whither he had come on profes-
sional business, Wilson was attracted by the lights of a
ranch to inquire his way. At the ranch, he was invited
to take refreshment before proceeding. A pretty young
servant brought it to him, and, being struck by a certain
familiarity in her features, he inquired her name. Closer
examination of the girl revealed the fact that she was the
Elsie Tvson he had given up trying to discover, and who,
but for losing his way, would probably have remained a
servant on the ranch still.
It will be news to Australians to know old Jimmy
Tyson had a daughter !
One Sandford, who goes away with the
Commonwealth contingent as a subaltern, was
previously a trooper among! the Bushmen, was
mentioned in despatches twice for heroism, and
was one of several Australians wrongly reported
to have received the Vic. Cross. He is destitute
of social influence, and he was a private in the
Vic. Permanent Artillery prior to the war. Pro-
motion from the ranks is not uncommon when the
promoted is a rich and influential person who en-
listed with his promotion arranged for before-
hand; but for a “common soldier” —one of the
permanent State employees—to get a commission
marks the break down of a great prejudice. Or
rather it would do so, only the influential push
has to do things like that occasionally, so that it
may point to them afterwards as proof that there
is no prejudice at all in the business.
Collection of the
rents in the Rocks
Resumed Area (Syd-
ney) by the State is
entrusted to a very
pious old sea captain
(and when a sea cap-
tain is pious he’s very
pious indeed). This
gentleman was sorely
shocked last week of
1901 by the request
from one lady tenant
for a red silk dress as
a Xmas-box. She
had always had such
a present from the
previous landlord,
and looked upon it as
one of her rights.
But the captain had
never given a strange
lady any clothes in
his life, and he re-
ferred the matter to
the Ministerial head
of the department. It
will be interesting to
watch for the item,
“one red silk dress”
in the next N.S.W.
loan estimates among
the permanent and
reproductive works.
Said that Beau-
champ, who had an , . „ T ~
almost reverent regard for N.S.W. Chief . m
Darley, has strongly urged in London the claim
of the fine old man to the State Governorsh p.
“ Melb.” : Just dead, Editor Gipison, aged
73, of Melb. Advocate— its only editor during its
existence of 34 years. The Advocate
launched by Sam Winter, now of the Heral ,
and has consistently waged war m the
interest. Winter began as a working compositor,
and married on £1 a week. He turned over tne
Advocate to his brother Joe, still the ostensibl
proprietor. Gunson, a Limerick man, was on y
reckoned an odd-and-end pressman, an ordinary
jobbing hack, when he took over the Advocate
editorship, but he proved himself possessed ot
great ability.
A Melbourne paper says that Edward VII.,
though one of the best humored of men, is also a.
terrible “ martinet in matters of precedence ana
social usage.” When crossing from Osborne
during the week of Queen Victoria’s funeral, His
Gracious noticed that the flag of the steamer was
at half-mast. “ Why is this ?” he asked sternly.
“ Your Majesty, the Queen is dead,” stammered
the captain. “Yes,” thundered the King, but
I am here ! ” Then, presumably, the
captain fell dead, like the person who
touched the Ark of the Covenant at
Kirjath-jearim, or Kerenhappuch, or
Hokitika, or some such place.
THE TIGER'S EGG.
MR. TRIPPER (who has just unpacked after a
journey North): “ Did you see this, Bridget?”
BRIDGET : “ An’ phwat's that?”
MR. T.: “An emu’s egg.”
B.: “ And phwat’s an aimew?”
MR. T.: “A bird.”
B.: “A burrd’s egg! Why, it’s more loike a
lion’s or toigerr’z!”
This is how Govt. Meteorologist Clement
Wragge makes his weather forecasts nowadays :
Now, let us take the public into confidence, and we
know that they will respect our trust. Oihcially and ex-
cathedra, we leave alone seasonal forecasting, but if we
were just to give a private opinion, based on long study
of meteorological conditions, we should say that the com-
ing wet season will probably be pronounced-we hesitate
to make reference to possible Wooding and that the
tropical disturbances named after those liquid-eyed
maidens of the Utopian South Seas will l.kely be m evi-
dence more than in recent years. At any late, we have
taken time bv the forelock, and have quite a set of charm-
incr liani* s, culled from the palm groves and coral reefs,
wherewith to delight the hearts of interest.ng young
mothers of pretty baby girls. So let them postpone for a
while the christening festival, and await the good things
MIXED DRINKS .
THE CURATE : “ Now, children, let us have ‘ Little drops of Water" again,
and do please put a little spirit into it!”
that the Weather Bureau has in store. Already there is
a depression to the north of Gomen called by the dulcet
title “ Aceta,” but she will probably affect New Cale-
donia rather than the coast of our own bonny Queens-
land. Now, come ! what fair mother will set the
example ? “ Aceta ”is rhythmic—no doubt of that—and
it scans with a lullaby soft as Lydian measures ; but woe
to “ La Nouvelle ” should her temper rise, with a falling
barometer, and an expression of Buys Ballot’s law in
20deg. south latitude !
The mother who burdens her baby with the
dreadful and vulgar-sounding name of “ Aceta ”
think of Miss Aeeta Smith [—deserves to fall out
of bed with the nightmare six times a week.
“X.”: Another new batch of J’s.P. Can’t
the farce be put a stop to ? In the town which I
infest one of the new magistrates is little more
than a “deadbeat,” who is unable to write his
own name. Recently the town garbage-gentleman
was “ raised to the bench,” and about the same
time a publican was “elevated.” This wasn’t so
novel an experience for him as you might suppose,
either.
Herr Frederick Buck, one of the quaintest
of Tasmania’s many quaint identities, died the
other day at Hobart. The queer little German
professor of “ moosic ” lived in Vandemonia fifty
years, only leaving it for a few months to visit the
Fatherland as Immigration Agent. He was an
accomplished linguist and musician, but as he had
a ready wit and satirical tongue, as well as a most
droll and engaging smile, Tas. society loved him
less than it feared him. Consequently, the mighty
Dobsons of the land favored him little, and he
died poor. Only regret writer ever heard the
cheerful old chap express was that he had, from
circumstances, to teach so many Tas. girls to
murder music on the piano when they had none in
their souls.
An Australian Heavenly twin : A certain
Minister of the Crown has a precocious girl
youngster, aged five, who, mimicking her
mother’s voice, transmits telephone
messages of the strangest description to
Ministerial offices. Confusion follows, and
on one or two occasions a Cabinet meeting
has had to be adjourned.
Henry Parkes’s old Faulconbridge home
and his grave were threatened by the late Blue
Mountain bush fires. The old man’s cottage resi-
dence at Balmain has found a new tenant, and the
grounds (where, with his characteristic rococo
taste, he had put statuary and bronzes) have been
cut up for modern villas. Parkes seems to be
completely forgotten in Australia, and there were
no fiowers on his grave this anniversary of the
Commonwealth —only weeds and a heavy pall of
smoke.


■
BULLETIN SUBSCRIBERS^
Who are unable to read small printed matter, or to see fine
stitching or writing, whose distant vision is dull and who suffer*
from persistent headaches or pains after close application—you
may rest assured that you are suffering from Ageing or
Impaired Vision, and Need Glasses. You should visit
us, and have your sight scientifically tested, and be supplied
with Glasses adapted to your individual case.
i T i?( E^. DERS wh ?, can I llofc Vlslt US personally, we send, Post Free to any address, with full instruc-
® If 1 r i ce Llsfc ' ou r marvellously-accurate and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURING PATENT. By its use
Write fcuit t* 1 ' ° WU S ' Sht a * ld determine for yourself the style and quality of the glasses you may need.
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Consulting 1 Optician,
371 George St., Sydney,
ST., MELBQURIME t opposite Agr Office.
next door to the A.J.S. Bank.
King and George Streets.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors.— ln the case of ethnological and
natural-history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience; or as nearly as possible. . hus
many interesting observations will have scientific alue.
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT.
ESTRIAN: “ The fact is, mum, it ain’t every
kind of work that’s suited for me. I’m a
perfessor of music to trade, and [breaking
down] it’s this here infamious dooty on
pianers what’s ruined me.”
Tibooburra (N.S.W.) police court-Old
Age Pension applications on tap. Enter, old
lady tottering and clinging to the arm of the
senior constable. “ What is your name, madam ?”
asks his Worship. “So-and-so.” “How old are
you ?” Speechless indignation of old dame. His
Worship : Now, madam, do you indulge in intoxi-
cants?” Stare of bewilderment. “I mean,
madam, is your present nervous condition due to
fear and sorrow, or have you been indulging in
stimulants?” Gasp of astonishment. “I mean”
—“ Oh, hang it all!” broke in the local J.P. (who
was with the P.M.) let me question her ! “Now,
look here, mother ! have you been hitting the
bottle ?” Sniff, sniff. “ Well, in plain words, are
you boozed?” “Boozed is it—boozed? Me boozed !
Why, I am blood cousin to Lord Nevertouchit,
and I’ll have you understand that my family
wouldn’t know yours in the street!—and ’’—here
the phonograph stops.
FREEDOM OF THOUGHT.
OFFENSIVELY SOBER PERSON (to drunk, who has suddenly rushed up and given him "an eye”):
“ What did yer hit me for? I wasn't saying anything.”
DRUNK: “ No, yer wasn’t say in’ anything. You’re one o’ them quiet, sneakin’ sort o’ coves, but
yer teas think in’ a dasned lot. I saw yer doin’ it!”
“ Albion ” : Near Moss Vale (N.S.W.),
not long since, I noticed a fairly large grasshopper
being dragged along by a vicious-looking dark-
colored wasp, which finally lumbered its victim to
a hole in the ground, withdrew a small plug of
clay from the top of the aperture, and violently
rammed the prisoner out of sight, afterwards re-
placing the plug. For half-an-hour I watched
that wasp, during which time it bottled up no less
than eight grasshoppers !
* * * *
A tale of the Big Scrub. The minister
was not in favor with Mrs. Sandy MacDhui, of
Chincogan. She and Sandy disagreed
over the matter, and Joan impressed
on Sandy that if he ever invited the
“ meenister ” to stay the night there
would be trouble. Sandy said little,
but thought many broad Scotch
thoughts. ... It was night in Chin-
cogan, and such a night. The wind
whistled wildly, and the rain, rattled
lelentlessly on the “ meenister ” mak-
ing his way on horseback to Mac-
Dhui’s, where he expected to “stay
the night.” Sandy and Joan had just
settled down before the roaring teak-
log fire for an hour’sgossip ere turning
in, when the parson’s voice called
“ Are you in, Mr. MacDhui ? ” Mac.,
notwithstanding the menacing fist of
his wife, made for the door, and
hurried in the drenched “feeder of
flocks,” who received but scant wel-
come from Mrs. Mac. Knowing that,
for once in a way, a chapter would be
read that evening, the auld wife went
upstairs to blow the dust off the
family Bible. While she was doing
this, Sandy took the unexpected
visitor up to the back room to don a
dry suit. It happened that the par-
son, dressed in Sandy’s work-a-days,
was making down the ill-lit staircase
just as Joan, in one of her worst
humors, was coming out of her bed-
room carrying the big book. Whack !
whack ! whack ! came the Bible on
the visitor’s head. “ I’ll taicli ye to
dae as I tell ye ! ” Whack on both
his ears as they went down the stairs.
“ Ye’ll nae ask auld to stay here
again in a hurry.” Sandy heard from
below, and stood aghast. “ Wife ! ”
he ejaculated. He was too far gone
to say more. The passage selected
for reading by the minister that night was the
third chapter of the first epistle of Peter, wherein
he read —“Wives, be in subjection to your own
husbands.”
* » » •
“A. lt. : Some VVestralian camel-drivers
have an intense (religious) dislike to pork in any
shape or form. Once mentioned to an Afghan
that his camel was “fat as a pig,” whereupon lie
spat several times, and vigorously kicked the
ground a shocking waste of energy, considering
the heat. When travelling the Afghans stack
their saddlery in one pile at night time, and on
such a pile some humorists of a kind once secretly
placed a piece of bacon. Next morning the Asiatics
burnt the whole outfit, worth about £5O, and
swore they would murder the miscreants on find-
ing them, which they haven’t done yet. The
European seldom takes his religion so seriously as
this.
* * * •
Norman McLean, a brother of the ex-
Premier of Victoria, one hot day, lay down under
a she-oak to take a rest. He was awakened by a
snake drawing its weary length across his face.
It paused once, but he exercised sufficient self-
oontrol not to move, and it went on its way.
Nofcice in a shop-window in a waybaek
Queensland town :
J. J. makes it his entire Practice to make all sorts of
machines for crooked or deformed Limbs, weakness or
Lameness in any part of the body, neat Steal-Collars for
young ladies, neck-swings, Steel Stays, Leg Machines with
all sorts of Steel Trusses and for both Sexes being so well
litted to Human Bodies so as to be endured by the
youngest Infants ; also laced Stockings and Bahdages for
any Part of the Body, together with Artificial Teeth,
made to the greatest perfection, so artfully fixed as to
endure for years ; he neatly cleanest the Teeth, taking
away all their barbarous Scales or Flimsy or muddy
Humours also hardened or fasteneth those that are loose ;
also ladies combings made up in the neatest Parisian
fashion.
Most people thought the “ neck swing” (if it
really is the old English device of that name) .wa3
obsolete. Very many years ago, at high-class and
expensive English boarding-schools, the young
ladies were hung up by the neck (not with a slip-
knot) and wrists every morning while an atten-
dant laced their corsets. The suspension was
supposed to straighten the figure; also in these
painful circumstances the attendant could get
better haulage on the corset.
* * * *
“ Betrayer ” on slang :
Dojaynarithinsorear Borillyjayrullitaysithinorin, Pori-
tinkayruatayreeter lv. dayrithintjayrusiut knayrittysay-
flthinorow moritchjayritchorutch ati-
thinjopithinkaybout Austrorittyjori-
thinapletraliuu Slorithinkojithinay-
rang, joridgayradgchayrithinoring bo-
rittysaykittyory thoritinayrithince
soritinchaysithinjorimpitayrample ho-
rittykositty jorugoritgsjaysayrot ori-
thinsaychithinoroff horithinsayditlu-
iloris. ChayritCyjokittysayre3tt iritin-
kaybittinorin H. 4/5/’OI. Which, being
translated from the involved Push
character, merely signifieth : “ Peter
K.” doesn’t know much about Austra-
lian slang, judging by the sample he
furnished in 15. 4/5/’OL The brand of
slang his boy used was an obsolete one,
quite discarded in the very worst
circles. Nothing passes so swiftly into
and out of fashion as a new vai'iety of
Push dialect, and even the system, or
rather no-system, on which the above
fearsome concatenation of syllables is
erected, —though in use all over Austra-
lia a year or two ago—is already obso-
lescent. All these argots had their
prototype in a crude slang invented by
the Hooligans of Westminster, London,
and are now giving place to a mazeful
kind of rhyme-word jargon. Herewith
a specimen of the new slang, short-
handed not long since by writer in
Fitzroy, Melb. : “Me mother’s away,
as I was swiftly-flowing up the field-
of-wheat in the bread-and-jam, a
heavenly-plan with a big charming
mottle of O-my-dear sticking out of
Ilia sky-rocket fancy-sashed the girl-
abductor on his bundle-of-socks with
it ’cus he wouldn’t let him have a
virgin-bride for nothin’.” Translation :
“ The other day, as I was going up the
street in the tram, a man with a big
bottle of beer sticking out of his pocket
bashed the conductor over the head
(i.e., think-box) with it (the bottle, not
the pocket) because he wouldn’t let him
have a ride for nothing.” Here, also,
is an observation made by a city swags-
man with whom this scribe was re-
cently fraternising previous to c.s.’s
turning-in : “ Well ! this is a nice old tut-tut-tut. Why
my-blanky knock-me-silly takes up so much of the ocean-
shore that there isn’t awful-doom enough for me to get
my rosy-red down onto the weeping-willow.” Which was
only his way of observing that the hut was so small th; t
his billy covered most of the floor, thus leaving insuffi-
cient room for him to get his head down on to his pillow I
[Both are variants of the familiar rhyme-slang—2o years
oid, at least.]
* * * #
A young Broken Hill miner, leaded” and
unable to find other work, determined to make for
Mildura. He left the Hill at the beginning of
November, 1001, with his wife, two children (16
months and 3 months old) and two nephews (12
and 14 years). They [travelled the 230 miles of
desert, sandhills and plains in a spring-cart, with
their few belongings and bedding, About half-
way the wife took ill, but they had the luck to
strike a boundary-rider’s hut, where she was well
cared for. They had great difficulty in keeping to
the track; in many places the sand completely
covered it. The only people seen on the trip were
at the six stations and the boundary-riders’ huts
passed. On the latter part of the journey the
road was too heavy for the horses, and the man
and two boys walked over 100 miles. They
arrived at Mildura to find that not a house could
be got. But that was a small privation after
what they had gone through, and they are now
living cheerfully in a humpy of bushes, hoping
for better times.
* # * *
Advertisements from Queenstown (Tas-
mania) paper
ACCEPTANCE.
WE hereby ACCEPT the CHALLENGE of the six
young Tea Tree gentlemen for a BEER-DRINKING
CONTEST on behalf of six old gentlemen of North
Lyell.
Conditions.— Contest to take place at North Lyell
Hotel on Christmas Afternoon. Most beer drunk in
five minutes. Prize £l. No charge for beer.
CARLTON & SHAMROCK BEER (Vic.) on draught.
The above event will take place after the cricket-
match.
LONG & SIDLER, North Lyell.
/CHALLENGE.—I, the undersigned, and five others
'- /l will drink the winners of the Beer Contest for
£25 for Eight Hours, commence Hunter’s Hotel 10
o’clock on New Year’s Day. P.S.—Losers pay for
beer. —Signed, Arch. Woods, Smelters Site, Crotty.
The losers in the second event, if it cc.n.e off,
appear to have had a very poor prospect. When
they paid the£2s, and also paid for all the beer that
12 smelter-men drank in eigh t hours, they probably
had very little left to bless themselves with except
an internal drowned feeling. Also, in such events,
there must be reckoned the damage done in the
inevitable fight when the six losers get out into
the street, and the person who lost the match for
his side by drinking least beer is abused by the
competitor who drank most beer, and they tear
each other’s trousseau in the discussion that
follows.
* • ♦ ' *
“ A.H.L.” (on his Bible oath)
The number of sharks now in the waters of Lane Cove
River (Sydney) is probably accounted for by the swarms
of small fish, upon which they gorge at leisure. While
rowing up the river the other day my boat came to a
standstill, and on stepping out to push her off the antici-
pated mud-bank, I was surprised to find self and boat
liard and fast in a very large school of live mullet.
* * * *
“ Meeia ” : Re “Jack's 1 ’ inquiry (B.
4/l/’O2) whether lantanum (lantana ?) improves the
ground, and whether cane-growers sow it for t! e
purpose. I have never heard of its being sown.
It would undoubtedly impiove the ground if left
in complete possession for several years—the
longer the better —but the cost of clearing it off
would probably outweigh the advantage. This
rough, serrated semi-vine is an imported pest.
Cultivated first in gardens for its pretty variegated
flower, i t is now found over a great part of the coast.
Its seeds are much relished by birds, and by them
carrie 1 far and wide. Immense are,is will certainly
be covered with it in a few years if energet.c
measures are not taken to check it. Once it forms
a scrub it is more dillieult to destroy than any
native bush. Its roots disintegrate the soil and
enable it to absorb the organic matter from the
mass of fallen leaves ; and in the course of yeais
poor soil may be greatly eio iehed by it. Its vali e
can be tested on many peer trams of coast land,
on which the plant is now spn ading.
“ II.I.” : Saw three laige rats getting away
with an egg recently. One had his fore-pans
round the egg and hugged it to his bosom, while
the others supported him, one on each side, aid
helped him along. He looked exactly like a very
drunk old gentleman being assisted home, with
water-melon in his arms.
USED TO IT.
No 1: “ We’re not so attractive as we thou lit,
Mab! That man hasn’t even noticed us.”
M AB: “ Not surprising! He’s the teacher of
swimming at the ladies’ baths!”
“ VVhiteye ” : H. J. M'Cooey says (8.,
14/12/’01): —“A wallaby with the nostril inter-
space naked would be a kangaroo. ” Well, a cat
with a few trifling alterations would be an elephant.
Do differences in feet and tail count for nothing ?
Also habits ? Doesn’t seem to be settled yet
whether wallaby laps or not, but I am certain ’roo
drinks, as I have seen pets at it. If the wallaby
does not lap he makes a sound very like a cat
drinking. At night I can always tell if it is a ’roo
or wallaby drinking.
* * * *
“ C. 8.” : Biggest tally shorn in Queens-
land with the hand shears was 321, on Alice
Downs station, near Blackall.
THE SUNDOWNER'S TALE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Say, boys ! I’m goin’ off me chuu p,
Or so I greatly fear ;
’Ere, landlord, will yer kindly pump
Sixpenuyworth o’ beer?
“ I want a lot, to drou n’d me woe—
A wasted love, y’ see ;
I hope you chaps ’ll never know
A woman’s perfidee
“ I s’pose it may seem strange to yous,
But these is just the facts :
Me lost Tove is a lady who’s
Deliverin’ of tr.ie.s.
“ She smiled upon me sweetly, on
A seat in the Domain ;
(Her hair looked lovely in the sun)
She spoke, and smiled again.
“ She breathed a sort of violet scent
Beneath the shady tree ;
She handed me a document
Which said : 1 Abide with me.’
“ She was the sweetest, dainty dove
Y’d find for many a mile ;
And there she was, admirin’ uv
Me whiskers and me style.
“ At first I ’ardly thought she meant
Them pleasai.t words for me,
Yet there the printed document,
It said, ‘ Abide with she.’
“ 1 1 will, dear gel, abide witli you,
And love y’ true, I vow I
Give us a hug, me love, ah do !
An’ take me straight home now 1 ’
“ I’d hardly kissed her twice afore
She screamed, ‘ You wicked scamp ! *
An scratched me nose, me whiskers bore,
An’ speared me with her gamp.
“ Ah, many a handsome chap like me
S’been druv to drown’d in beer
An achin’ void no eye can see,
Wot aches fer someone dear.
“ Just one more drunkin’ lump of sin
Fer smug men to despise,
Who’s lost himself by gazin’ in
A smilin’ woman’s eyes."
ALONE.


Inter-State Championship Band Contest
SOME INTERESTING PARTICULARS.
The Band Contest Art Union, which is being
extensively advertised just now, is conducted
under the auspices of the Band Association of
N.tt.W. —tlie only body of its kind in the Com-
monwealth. Contest takes place Sydney Town
Hall, Jan. 25th and 27th. Prizes value £350.
Art Union drawing comes off Feb. 26th. First
four principal prizes: Gold Cornet, £100; Victor
Piano, £5O; Kimball Organ, £25; Nauinann
Bicycle, £2O. (By the way, there are some
“ melting moments ” awaiting that gold cornet.)
Price of Tickets, Is. Half profits divided amongst
public hospitals ; this in proportion to tickets sold
locally in each district and State. Mr. J. F. Bruce,
Hon. Sec., 305 Pitt-street, Sydney, will supply
private purchasers or intending agents on appli-
cation.*
The elephant’s proboscis, or trunk, is a
curious appendage, when you come to think of it.
Zoologists, of course, will rise to explain why it
was found necessary to furnish the animal with
so useful a combination of arm, nose, mouth, and
weapon of offence, but it looks like gross favount
ism. Lots of insects have trunks, but then they
feed through them —they are not extras, so to
speak : the mosquito’s combined probe and jump
is a neat and useful thing—for the mosquito.
But no trunk could be neater or more useful than
the Sa atoga, sold for 255., 28s. 6d., and 325. 6d.,
according to size, by M‘Lean Bros. andßigg, Ltd.,
107 Elizabeth-street, Melb.*
d
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi
For LIVER COMPLAINTS, OBESITY, 4c.
The VIENNA MEDICAL PRESS" says:-
Hunyadi Janos may be regarded as a specific for obesity.
Average Dose.— A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
Note the name “ Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
ANDREAS SAXLEHNSR, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Label.
“ F.” desires to explain :
A last week’s “ Wild Oat ” par. re “ Byronite ” says “ It
was claimed, in court, on the inventor’s behalf, that he
absolutely believed in the efficacy of his formula, and he
was certainly able to persuade someone (who is now very
angry) to buy a fourth share in the patent rights.” This
may suggest to many readers that said buyer knew the
“secret.” —a seemingly ridiculous secret —of the
“Byronite” material \vhen he found the money to
start a syndicate. But he didn’t. He oidy knew
that Byron was working an engine by some power
which he alleged to be gas generated from the
Byronite compound. The materials used in the manu-
facture of this precious powder were a sealed secret
entrusted to the care of solicitors Blake and Riggall.
Byron’s partner bought a share in the mystery, on the
strength of its apparent motive power. Likewise the
syndicators. One of these was Daly, the proprietor of
tire Turkish Baths in Melb. Daly, becoming inquisitive
after Iris red-hot enthusiasm had cooled down, made
practical enquiries which led to all the subsequent pro-
ceedings.
SORE EYES.
The remedy—Morris’s Imperial Eye Ointment
—is acknowledged the only certain remedy ; never
fails to give instant relief. Refuse all others and
get the genuine. Pots 2s. Sold everywhere,*
Christmas Day in the West. Extract from
Ktation-manager’s letter ■
We had a very quiet Christmas. Yesterday was a fearful
day o! heat and dust; to-day it is cool and dustv-that is
the only change we ever get now. We have hardly any
neighbors left.. The country is all abandoned. I only
keep three station hands, a bullock driver, a rouseabout,
and a cook— when I can get the latter. The two former
eat, drink, smoke, sleep, and curse the flies. At night I
gave the cook sufficient grog to send him to bed glorious,
and he sang hymns most of the night. The season is as
bad as ever, but it is no good talking about that; the
country is done. Had to drive into Wilcannia last week,
5 ou ought to see the roads in that sandv Darling country,
At some places you come across sand-drifts as high as
your head and as steep as the side of a house, playfully
formed right across the track. I had four good horses
in a light buggy, and it took them all they knew to get
hardly runnin- g ltSelf iS merely & SUV6r ~
* °' . „ *
“ Meera ” : Re calf-planting. To “Jack-
a-Clubs ” statement in Bulletin of Jan. 4, that
any stockman can, by imitating the call of a
youngealf, induce the cow to go to or look in the
direction of, her hidden offspring, I say Baa-a.
Jack-a-Clubs cow must have been very young
and inexperienced. An old cow would not be
caught that way unless the imitator was a stranger
to her, could imitate a calf’s call perfectly, and
was close to the hidden calf when he did so. Also
he must have the luck to imitate the right calf.
Have seen covins, wlien searchers were in close
proximity to the calf, go off bellowing in another
direction, to draw the searchers away—evidence,
to me, that cows can reaso
A GROWTH FROM THE BUSH.
FOUR-EYEAR-OLD (loq.): “Pack up dinner for
three men. Me and Dad and Jones is gain ’
rabbitin ’.”
“Long-’Un”: Doubtful whether timber-
growing on the banks of running streams has
much influence on the water supply, though it
certainly has in the case of soakages. In ’93, was
camped at a soak in the heart of the 90-Mile
Desert (S.A.). Our sixteen horses speedily killed
the supply, which dwindled shortly to a couple of
buckets daily ; meanwhile, carted water four and
twelve miles. Goyder (of line-of-rainfall fame)
arrived, and gave instructions to cut down all the
low mallee within 50 yards, and especially above
the soak. Within a few days there was ample
water for all the horses and for camp purposes.
It lasted all the summer, too. [Of course, the
roots which hold moisture f rom a soakage, hold it
also from a running stream, though in the case of
the stream you don’t see the difference.]
* * * *
“A.G. ” : Recently dropped across a
horrible case of cruelty to animals. A 14-year-old
(N.S.W.) boy knocked a calf on the head, and
had the skin off it some minutes before it was
dead. The miserable creature kicked several
times, and once raised its head a foot from
the ground. When I remonstrated, the
youngster laughed, and told me he had seen
’em “almost sit up and look round for their
pelts.” Parents, by allowing boys to do this
sort of thing, are unconsciously giving them
an excellent training for the gallows. Farmers
here slit pigs’ throats, and let them run until they
collapse from loss of blood.
* * * *
Some messages left at a Sydney suburban
doctor’s:
Baby has got a rush over him, like as he had Been laid
in Nettles.
. . Jack is very bad ; he has got pains down his both
sides ; he has been very bad all night; his ooff cuts him
in to halfes.
My Girl is suffering from swollin mouthe, and it seems
to me like information of the gums.
Baby his no better ; he has a fearful Coff, and weases
very much, and it is a great troble to get his breath, and
he takes no notice off anythink.
Docter, i would like you to come over and see my Baby,
as he is no Better of the direre.
Please Docter, will you send me some coff mixture, has
i cannot get 5 minutes peace for my cold. I coff that
much that it makes me reatch.
* * * *
The ttiustdPafter the recent big fire in the
Wagga and Gundagai districts (N.S.W.) reveals
the fact that a good many thousand sheep are
missing on the various stations. Burnt, of course ;
for the sheep is an animal that is unfit to be at
large by reason of its deficient intellect, and it
makes not the slightest effort to get away from
the blaze, but “rounds up” and awaits the
inevitable. These losses are hard luck for the
pastoralists, who have, during the preceding years
of drought, kept their stock alive at considerable
expense, only to meet a new disaster when the
tide looked like turning.
“ C.G. ” : Was travelling in the train
lately near Beaudesert (Queensland), and asked a
young fellow in the carriage the name of a range
of hills that we were passing. He said he did not
know what they were called, but assured me t lat
they were the highest mountains in the world.
It must be a painfully indifferent kind of man
who lives close to the highest mountains in the
world, and forgets all his life to find out the name
of them.
* » * *
The luck of Junee, N.S.W., is awful.
First, a terrific fire devastated the district east of
the town. Grass, unstripped crops, stored wheat,
fences, stock and homesteads were included in the
holoeaust. Then the south-western portion of the
district was swept by a violent hail-storm which
totally destroyed several thousand acres of stand-
ing crops—the reward of a year’s hard toil against
rabbits and drought.
* * * *
H. J. M‘Cooey writes :
I am delighted to say that an example ot Crocodilus
sp. nov., referred to in a previous communication, proves
it tobe tetradact i/le posteriorly; ergo, it is a true crocodile.
Glory awaits me if I can only grab it ? It is not a
Physignallius.
The Bulletin trusts that after this the Foreign-
trade crowd will drop its hypocritical pretence
that it wants to flood Australia with foreign
calico for Australia’s benefit. If it doesn’t, The
Bulletin will sool the above-mentioned poly-
syllable on to it.
* * * *
“QuilpN.”: The safety-valve of Maori-
land’s thermal system is the active volcano,
White Island, in the Bay of Plenty, 30
miles off the coast. The Maoris say that
whenever this volcano ceases fire there
will be a good, big earthquake somewhere
in the province, and there always is. The
island is a mere shell; there being a lake
of dilute hydrochloric acid in the interior.
This lake is of comparatively recent forma-
tion (it appeared six years ago), and yearly
increases in size. At present it is nearly
two miles long and a-quarter mile broad.
From time to time the lake overflows
into the crater, and clouds of steam rise
and remain suspended above the island
in calm weather. The whole surface of
the island is composed of sulphur. Some
time ago a party of men were landed in
Crater Bay, where an anchorage in 50
fathoms is obtainable in one place, to
work the sulphur deposits. But after
a short stay they decided to seek more
solid foothold, and cleared out. Cotton
clothes are ruined if allowed to touch the
acid in the lake. There is a species, of
rat on the island, quite red in color, whioh
eats crabs.
“Prospector”: A cow on Dandondagah
station, Buffalo River (Vic.), was, apparently,
very near calving, when the signs of her condition
began to disappear, and, within a month, she
became very fat, and was killed for beef. A post-
mortem then disclosed the skeleton only of a com-
pletely-developed calf.
« * * *
Dear Bulletin. —Re “Jaynol” on bell
birds. I can verify his statement as to selection
of one camping-ground for years. At Bunyip,
South Gippsland, the bell birds have hung on to
a small patch of wattles (about an acre) near the
Bunyip River for the last twenty years. I have
always found them in close proximity to the
river, and between this community and the
next there lies a space of about six miles. They
are about the size of a minah, ashen grey, with
lemon-yellow tinges, very industrious performers,
and, except for a short lull at mid-day, vie with
Tennyson’s “Brook,” or our neighbor’s daughter
on the piano, for persistence.
’llgll
“Z.”: At a
lignum swamp
on Widgiewa
Station, Nar-
randera (N.S.
Wales), a very-
fine sight was to
be seen in Dec.,
1901— the swamp swarming with thousands of
ibis. The birds were nesting, and every inch of
available space was taken up. The land about
the swamp was so white with eggs that at first
sight it looked as though there had been a heavy
fall of hail.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
TWO CLAY MASKS: Hopkins, by Phil . May; and Phil, May, by Hopkins.
So notice will be. taken of communications insuficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
E. : Well-meant, but sadly incomprehen-
slble 0. Galvin : Many thanks M.J.T. : A notable
saying—“ Verse is its own reward.”... -R-C. : “Miner’s
Revenge ”is a most surprising and original poem. Many
people would murder anybody who accused them of
writing it... .E.M.P. : Some good verses; but, on the
whole, not good enough. Try again, with a better and
more definite subject... .Oroppy : Good idea and grace-
fully written, but beaten out too thin Felix: Reads
very like a hymn....J. M‘o. : “ Launching Place ” not
strong enough. Kind of weak prettiness about it....
First Try : Cordially agree with you ; they are rather
crude...... Kitty: The bald fact that Bob found a
strange man hugging his wife isn’t sufficient to
make a story. A Mohammedan might find a strange
man hugging his harem and yet it might not be a story.
All depends on the telling..... .Nic : Why didn t
you report the intoxicated guard. If he brings about
a murderous accident you will be largely responsible....
Maggie S. : One good item, anyhow.... Rita S. . Old
careworn idea conventionally treated.... .Civil Engineer .
Thanks.... D. H. R. : Some good pars. Verses too rugged.
H P ‘ The Bulletin stated, on the dead-sure
authority of the census, that between 1881 and 1891 the
population of practically all the British and Irish
agricultural counties—counties with no important towns
in them -diminished, while the population of towns and
cities showed a large increase. At the same time it said
the ao-oregate population increased. Rider Haggard also
talked”of the decay of the agricultural districts. And
vou object on the ground that, in a certain town, your
friend found it hard to get a house. The crowding of
towns was just what The Bulletin was talking about....
p M • Belongs to the vague soul-wailsome order of verse
which may mean something or nothing or anything or
everything . .X.Y.Z. : B is correct. It was Gladstone
who did it... .Moulamein : Mechanically accurate, but
terribly short of inspiration.. F.H. : “ Buggins ” is
a bad failure H.H. : “Spec Builder" will do
Peter S, : Superb he. Will use... Charcoal. You
don’t make a black enough mark. H. Phillip: Rather
smart, but we couldn’t use it in that form.... H.S.L. ;
Not well enough handled.... lmpetuosity : Well written,
but too suggestive of “ An Englishwoman’s Love Letters.
Bembi: Pretty fair work, but upon very conventional
fines.... Jostler : Effect strained and language 1005 e....
Kiwi • Please send address to Bulletin accountant
Pica Small pica !... .G.H.: “ Bush Wedding ” will make
good aboriginally Larry : Poor enough stuff,
Laurence.. ..James O. : Very crude and awkward.
You should master metre before you attempt verse
Press Cutting (Queensland): James Henderson s old poem
was well-meant, but the modern Ketchener needs to be
struck with a harder brick than that E.E.R. : Poorest
ioke this year.... S.C.O.J. : Verses not up to the mark.
' Echo: “Chaos” too prim and orderly; we like our
ohaos with some rough edges Tom : Don’t feel inclined
to publish a hymn for the Boers: they seem to have
hymns enough.... Fred: If a man is sentenced to be
hanged and through any cause the hangman absolutely
fails to carry out his duty, a second attempt on a future
date would not be made, but a reprieve would issue.. ..
M A.P. : Wrong: Salomons resigned because he was in-
sulted by Windeyer R.A.K. : Will use “ Martyrdom.”
Bembi: Not up to the mark... .Bury Bilhdge : Have
buried Billidge accordingly. Tombstone ordered
F. : Two poems to your Best Girl in Bed. Better let
her go to sleep.B.D. : Might go if more brightly
written. Rather dull at present.... Uloola: Accounts
well told, but not enough to te11... .C.H.R. (Tas.) : Good
yarns. Both accepted... .M.R.F. : Mislaid your address.
Please send again... .F.O.N. (R’ton) : Agree with you in
the main, but much too long and heavy for 8... .Simon :
Rejected with a loud bang !... .Treble F. : All sound
and fury, signifying nothing.”... .Susie J. - Alas 1 Susan,
it is but conventional rigmarole Saltbush : Lreat
want of skill, but has nevertheless much promise....
Canopus : Dust and ashes.... W.A.B. : Too many vicissi-
tudes in the metre.... Bunny : Can’t burrow m Bulletin.
Marco : Verse-form perfect, but, beyond that, no-
thin".. .. L.S.O. : Lovely libel!... .1). Mac. : Well-written
but too technical for 8... .Jesmond : Not space to ex-
plain fully; but there are eight parries in all, and
“ carte ” (quarte) and “ tierce ” mean merely 4th and 3rd.
Warrigal : Splendid idea, badly bungled !... .Sam F. :
Limps a little towards end, but we may trim it up for
print... .J.G. (M.L.) : “You send us a real live tale.
Well it must have died enroutef,. .. .Xavier : You prance
around too much. Study directness, and you may
do good work enough... .Yarruni : No, nothing
H.F. : Julian Salomons is out of the State just now.. .
C.R. : Your argument is founded on wrong premises :
he victims will never recover fully from the injuries, and
happier fate for them would have been death J.W. :
oine good enough, and will be paid for when printed : but
don’t send ancient “ Limericks ” ; they give too much of
a Limburger order to the W.P.B Darling-Downer :If
you take “ very small quantities of rabbit phosphorus
paste ” for the purpose you mention, you are ; more sorts
of an ass than we can have patience with ; final result will
be a very painful and lingering kind of death Inquirer :
You had better pay a lawyer, though process of transfer
under Torrens Title is fairly simple. Yet there are
technical matters, such as search against liens, which
a layman would find it hard to attend to
R.J.S. : Verse not strong enough to go in on its own, and
to put it in as a matter of controverting another poem
opens up dreadful possibilities M.I. :As a matter
of fact, Oape Colony has (according to Gordon Sprigg)
18,000 men in the field... .Rita G. : The nag ran stiff, in
short; a slight incident like that wants glowing treat-
ment to carry it home. . .W.A. : Some good touches, but
too few currants in the pudding H G.H. : There were
two possible explanations of the cock}’’s action : (1) theft,
(2) his yarn. Judge and jury said theft, and you ask us
to publish as truth his yarn without any proof... .XXX. :
“Newspapers” printed. “Taken Down” will appear
shortly S.C.O.J. : “Star” accepted Electra : Will
print “Dying Daylight,” with a few alterations....
Alone : “ Two Referees ” rather dull, and heavy Milky
White: Verse received, with thanks W.M.B. : Will
print under a different name. Too many poems have
been labelled “Out Back.” Oals Bigs: Thanks.
Will use Riverina: “Saltbush Plains” accepted
A.W. (Deloraine) : You say The Bulletin “always pub-
lishes the Boer version.” What a one-eyed calendar you
must be 1 Miss Hobhouse's description of the concentra-
tion camps, and the British official report of the deaths
in these camps, and the contingenters’ accounts of how
they burned farms and knocked out the teeth of dead
Boers for curios, and the cable intelligence about how
burnt-out women and children are left on the veldt to
starve are all British versions. And the whole story of
the circumstances which led up to the war was taken
from British historical works. You can’t point to a
single instance where The Bulletin, in any important
matter, has goneby the Boer version. How could it? When
S’African posts, telegraphs, newspapers, &c., are all in
British hands, bow could the Boer version reach Australia ?
Jundah : Something fascinating about “D.II. Manor”
but metre and rhymes very rocky and would require a lot
of patching H.J.M‘O. : Hooray!.._. .E.B.J. : Album
verse unsuitable for 8... .M.E.C. : Unsuitable... .P.H.C. :
You repeat with the garnish of many long words what
The B. said in brief before R. de O.: Nice album
verse, but we can’t print such until our size has been ex-
tended to 100 pages... .S.V.B. :If clothes were abolished
all the gentler forms of wickedness would probably vanish,
and would life then be worth 1iving?....0.V.; Not
enough life in your death-bed sketch.*..W.O.S. : Quite
hopeless : two lines in proof—
“ They lied him gently down
His fatal wound dressed down.”
M. Tinrag : Not too bad ; but you lack the dramatic
instinct which w,ould have made a powerful story of the
material Rita S. : Picturesque ; may use E. W.
Bradbury : Probably an oversight. Kindly specify items.
Tired Tim : The larger and bolder the sketch, the
better it stands reduction to the necessary Bulletin size.
Twangling Jack : Thou twanglest now in the basket,
John! A.G.W. (Malvern): Good topical verse, but
subject not of sufficient general interest... .Agart : Did
you write these lines seriously?—
Open wide thy lattice, dearest,
There is naught that thou need fearest !
Leslie : Well-written and shows good descriptive
power, but the mistake in names is too weak a p10t....
Barry Sprayton : Will print “Sewing Machines.”....
G.H. : “Knock-off” isn’t worthy of the writer who pro-
duced “Bunniz.” Mac. (Orange): Thanks. Will
print Franklyn Hardy: Will use T.G.F. : Will
appear in due course....D. : Don’t care much for
“Battle Hymn.” John M.D. : “Battler” only one
acceptable so far. “Palmistry ” too much like “ Phreno-
logy” to allow of effective alteration... 8.8. : Your
panegyric states he was a man “ who always placed at
the bottom of his fruit cases the same quality of fruit as
was to be found at the top.” There are limits even to our
credulity C.L.C. : “ Two Mates” good story dully and
mechanically told. Would need complete re-writing
W.A.W.B. : Let poetry rip MaggieS. : “ Armand V.”
is an old tragic idea which the absinthe-sodden minor
lights of French literature have run to death.. ..B.U.S.
and B.A. : Incline to think “Early Australian J.P.” is
too early. He is the earliest J.P. this paper remembers,
bar Tubal Cain.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
W.S.P. : One may serve for re-drawing Ben S.: In
dealing with that sort of subject, all depends on the art.
For the present, you had best stick to intrinsically-good
subjects Aramac : Ideas hopeless... .Kitty : More like
plain, sorrowful fact than anything else... .Mallee : Gag
too far-fetched Bromide : That joke is in the last
stage of a debilitated old age.. ..T.T.A. : Strained joke.
... .L.P. : Point undiscoverable... .P. Bradford : Drawing
respectable, joke invisible Eyre : Accepted.. ..L.E.S. :
Doesn’t seem to be apropos of anything.


' The Governor-General and the races.— ld con-
nection with the W.A.T.C meeting, we under-
stand that it is expected that the regulation ruling
'in regard to the official visit of His Excellency the
Governor-General, the Earl of Hopetoun, will be
adhered to on Boxing Day and Saturday, £*nd
that gentlemen attending will appear in frock-
coat and tall hats. other days of the
race*, the visits not being official, conformity to
the regulation 'ftl aot be expeoted.
fee iv'e.sff'
/Yeny/ef/ofy "To fee Zfee
fu/?eUt Zfe f of
fere/ /feofee/ouf
ffja/y' ife /fror/fiT
/esfe /$e /J/rdcAfre
/00/6t™ //& <3 fee/fecf~~
wit? t/
$ sforT~
>tT// far
// pa
/■/$ intsied C
7 e^r^f
■fjfis >s
< Tv)e dp
v fah
i b«J(S
f ) life wh $> 00 *
l/wse sa^ w ,
\>& to
ta>& *>w *^®
Ke<* 4 e Wr °^
b° y S e (Ttjere is <N l° r °f
> *
* Wl w)
"-two to Oijt on i^ 1 J° Ve ~
Bl'o&n i&w»> ‘I LjP'
Ijn Y '\'i fevHy j)^cftc~'
Mil. i< 1 1 | Jff Jl|
s v ,/ 0 'i
j /iyJier Yu\\rjp^
l *« e*>y 'to &esc/inf >f^vcei|
loy*y
"THE TALL HAT OF RESPECTABILITY."


Mr G EL Reid, who has been spewing Ihree
weeks’* holiday at Flinders, has been kept practically
secluded from politics during his stay.
This is a little seaside resort on Westernport, 60
'miles from Melbourne. There is a little fishing and
shooting and boating, and, for a man of Mr. Reids
disposition, it is absolutely an ideal spot. Une
/hears nothing of the turmoil of public affairs out-
side, and only a whisper of them comes with the
morning papers late in the day. So that Mr. Reid
to-night had just got his copy of. the papers con-
i' 'vtaining Mr Barton’s speech.
Mr. Reid spent much of his time fishing. A Victorian politicians'
found him out at his hotel. “Ah, Mr. Reid,” he said, “I’ve comeu
for a few hours' discussion on the tariff.” “My dear sir, Mr. Reid
answered him, " down here I know nothing of tariffs. I’m just out
shark fishing.’ Mr. Reid got his regu-
lar lishing companion, and landed a
5 shark 4ft. long before the day's excur-
sion was over.
'On Thursday Mr. See cabled .to Mr. Copeland, the Agent*
General, regarding the appointment of a new State Governor
He alluded to the illness of Chief-Justice Darley, and the
appointment of a Deputy Lieutenant-Governor, and asked that
the matter might be expedited.
Yesterday he received a reply from
Mr. Copeland as follows : “T have re
ceived your telegram to-day. The Secre-
tary of State for the Colonies is absent,
but says he is doing all he can, and will
see me on Tuesday ”
Fact is, the lord market is rather firm
just now.
The Canadian Manufacturers' Associa-\
tion has requested Sir Wilfrid Laurier to
invite Mr. Barton to visit Canada after
the coronation ceremonies
The Canadian manufacturers wish to
personally represent to Mr. Barton the
injury the Common-
wealth tariff is doing
to the Canadian-
tralian trade^^, —
THAT METEOR
“ It's my opinion,” said Professor
Goosler, that it’s a message from
Mars.” “And I,” said Professor
Foosler, who had been dining with
Prof. Goosler, "shall reserve my
opinion until I see by the morning
papers whether anybody else saw it.”
**■*£, «*•*
t^L
»'”",> * i 'W''*,„«a to ’
’Sprain** 1
•gV*
PPs
V.
cc *
Mr. Reid is said .to have benefited in
many ways by his holiday, and will
resume “fishing” in Melbourne soon,
i “ Only," says the wily George, “ I think
will hav6 to change my bait.”
SOME SMALL CURRENT EVENTS.


A. SAUNDERS
WATCHES. CLOCKS. JEWELLERY, &SiLVERPLATE AT FREETRADE PRICES
SAVE 25 TO 50 PER CENT. SHOWROOMS: 815 GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY. *
A. SAUNDERS.
SAVE 25 TO 50 PER CENT. FREETRADE PRICES.
BREAD BOARD and KNIFE, Pure Silver-plated on Hard
Nickel Silver. Beautifully Chased and. Ornamented, 85s }
can be used as Cake Dish or Salver. Similar styles, 21s, 255,
80s, £2, £2 10s. A USEFUL PRESENT.
A. SAUNDERS.
NO ADVANCE IN PRICES. SAVE YOU 25 to 50 PER CENT.
CARVERS, Knife, Eork, and Steel, Joseph Rodgers’ Sheffield make. In silk-lined case.
every satisfaction, 20s. Other styles, 30s, £2, £2 10s.
Guaranteed satisfactory.
"Will
A. SAUNDERS.
TWELVE 4 O’CLOCK TEA SPOONS and TONGS, in
Silk-lined Case. Very best Pure Silver-plated, 355. Similar,
80s, £2, £2 10s. Six in Case and Tongs, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Cake Knives or Porks, 20s, 255, 80s, £2. Latest London
Rage. Send for Illustrated Book.
A. SAUNDERS.
EGG CRUET, very neat, effective, 4 Cup
and Spoons, Pure Silver-plated on White
Nickel Silver, 20s. Other styles and
patterns, 255, 80s, 85s, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
0116-JAM DISH, Fancy Gold
Ornamented Glass with Pure Silver-plated
Nickel Silver Base, 12s 6d.
Other styles, 15s 6d, £l, £1 6s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Registered Motto CRUET,
Dinna Forget, Pure Silver-plated
on "White Metal, 21s.
Similar Design, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
8124.—0 AK BISCUIT, Silver-plated, Moun-
ted, 15s 6d; Shield only, 12s 6d; Fluted Rims,
2 >-■; Floral Ch ina Mounted, 15s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER DISH, White Glass, Pure
Silver-plated, 15s 6d; larger size, £l.
Other Designs.
A. SAUNDERS.
LUNCHING CRUET, 4 Bottles, Silver-
plated. 15.- 61. Very Pretty.
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE BASKET, Beautifully Chased,
85fi, £2, £2 10s, £3. Cheaper Styles, 20b, 255, 80s.
i
A. SAUNDERS.
DINNER CRUET, 6 Bottles, with Shield, Pure Silver
Plate on White Hard Metal.
A Useful and Serviceable Article, £2 10s.
r
NO ADVANCE WHATSOEVER.
A. SAUNDERS.
FREETRADE PRICES.
n virl PnfFpp Spf llre Sflver Plate on White Metal, extra Chased and Finished, £8 15s.
AOCt CtllU A/ULLOO DO u, We sell these at London cost, saving' the purchaser 25 per cent, to 50 per cent
Other Designs and Prices, £4 10s, £5, £6, £7, £B, £lO, to 50 Guineas.
Special Prices for Sport and Presentation Committees. ILLUSTRATIONS POST FREE.
A. SAUNDERS.
0102—HOT WATER KETTLE and STAND,
Pure Silver-plated on Wnite Metal, Extra Chased,
£2 10s. Similar Designs, £2, £3, £3 10s.
jLybuimdety
LONDON&SrDHtV
SB
m
A. SAUNDEES.
SUGAE SCUTTLE, Square,
Eure Silver-electroplated on
White Metal, Beautifully Hand-
chased, 21s. Very Useful Present.
A. SAUNDEES.
QS.—CANDLESTICK,
Pure Silver-plated, 8s 6d each.
Similar Designs, 12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
NUT CRACKERS and PICKS, Pure Silver-
electroplated on Nickel Silver, in Silk-lined Case,
Nicely Chased, and Ornamented, 17s 6d.
Similar case, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
CHILD’S SPOON, Silver-plated ou White
Metal, in Silk-lined Case,-7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d.
Solid Silver. 12s fid. 15s, £l.
SAliiN-uEitS
BUTTER DISH, White Glass,
Pure Silver-plated, 3s 6d. Round, 10s Gd.
ď
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAKFAST CRUET, Pure Silver on
Hard White Metal, -with Spoons, 10s 6d.
UUI)
w
wm
NO ADVANCE.
A. SAUNDERS.
FREETRADE PRICES.
Cutlery and Plate Canteen, inSolidMai l o i |^ycase ) veiret-
SPOONS and FORKS of the Very Best Quality on Hard Metal,
Containing Every Article used on the Table (22 pieces), £Blos ;
other qualities, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O, £25. SEND- FOR ILLUSTRATIONS.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER KNIEE and JAM SPOON,
in Silk-lined Case,
the Very Best Silver-plate, Nicely Chased,
10s, 12s 6d, Its, 20s.
Send for Illustrated Price List.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR SCUTTLE, Silver Electro-
plated, Handsomely Chased, 20s ;
extra quality, 255, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
SERVIETTE RING, Silver-]
Nicely Chased, 3s 6d
A. SAUNDERS.
LUNCH or DINNER CRUET,
Pure Silver-plated, 21s ;
extra quality, 255, 30.-, 355.
Save 25 to 50 Pee Cent. A. SAUNDEItS. Freetrade Prices.
BELT and BUCKLE, Pure Solid Silver, Nicely Chased, £2, £2 ss, and £2 10s.
Silver-plated, similar patterns, 3s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s 6d. 13s sjd.
MOST FASHION '. RLE.
SAVE 25 to 60 PER CENT.
Squatter’s Knife, ExtraStron '
A. SAUNDERS. FREDTRADE PRICES,
the Very Best Silver Steel Blades, 5s 6d ; similar styles, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, 4s 6d.
Large Combination Miner’s Knife, 7s 6d, 10s.
A. SAUNDEKS.
FIELD and OPERA GLASSES, Firot-class
Lenses, Good Effect, 20s, 255, 80s, £2, £2los, £B.
A, SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER sa/n CL SILVB RSMITH.
A BEAUTIFUL DISPLAY OF PRESENTS AT FREETRADE PRICES.
Mind, 815 GEORG E-STREET,
NEARLY OPPOSITE
RAILWAY STATION,
SYDNEY


Don’t Hesitate.
There ia just one thing to use if your stomach,
liver or kidneys are “ out of order,” and that
“one thing” is Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
The supposition is that you want a prompt cure,
and a lasting cure. That is why Dr. Morses
Indian Root pills are recommended as the one
thing for your condition. They cure promptly,
perfectly, and permanently. One of the thou-
sands cured gives strong proof.
A Lady’s Gratitude.
Mrs. E. M. Hay, Hammill-street, Donald, Vic.,
writes:- “I write to inform you of the benefits
I have derived from the use of your Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root pills. For years I have been a
sufferer from severe Indigestion, so bad that l
could not eat, and work was an impossibility. I
was recommended to give your pills a trial; I
did so, purchased one bottle, and commenced
their use, continuing them till I had finished
the first bottle, at which period I found great
relief, and have not had an attack since. I am
still continuing their use, as every dose seems
to improve my health. I will recommend them
to all my friends, as those I have recommended
them to cannot speak too highly of them. You
have my full permission to use this letter as you
think fit, as I feel bound to make my case
known towards helping those who suffer like I
have done,” Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are
a perfect blood purifier, and a positive cure for
biliousness, indigestion, constipation, headaches,
sallow complexion, liver and kidney troubles,
piles, pimples, boils and blotches, and for female
ailments. Sold by chemists and storekeepers,
Is lid per bottle, or six bottles 6s 6d. Sole
proprietors, The W. H. Cotnstock Co., Ltd.
(Australasian Depot), 58 Pitt street, Sydney.
Packed in amber bottles, and the full name
blown thereon.*
If you suspect vourself of being a missing
Next-of-Kin and heir to a fortune, write to J. W.
Holdsworth (101 Swanston St., Melbourne). J.
W.H., the Private Inquiry expert of Australia,
has no equal at tracing missing persons and
investigating delicate matters, etc.*
Ketchener, having ordered the leaving
behind of pianos on active service, and Roberts
having suggested that care taken of horses,
what price Wolseley chipping in with a warning
against the forgetting of rifles ?
Martin’s Apiol and Steel Pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia, price 4s. 6d.
Agents: Sayers, Allport, and Potter, Sydney.
A copy of “A Policy for the Common-
wealth,” The Bulletin’s particularly suc-
cessful pamphlet, will be posted from this office to
any Australian address on receipt of Bd. in stamps
of any State).
The Yic. Railway Department doesn’t
actually invite its casual, temporary employees to
cause collisions, but it seemingly looks on such
happenings with very mild disapproval. A signal-
man who lately sent a train on a race after
another in a tunnel has been fined two days pay !
“ Piles and Their Cure.”—The pamphlet
by Albert Sharp, entitled “ Piles and the Wav to
Cure Them,” without operation, sent free, on
application to the Sydney Depot, 257 George-
street.*
“ sh: arpshootino
For Sport and War”
fd
By W. W. GREENER.
Hits the Mark!
If you wish to know how to guard the
Empire—if you are one of those who will
rally round the old flag—read this book.
It teaches all about Rifles and Rifle
Shooting, how to aim and make allowance,
&c., and it contains chapters on Ranges
and Rifle Clubs, with a history of the part
played by the Armed Civilian in the past.
The Best Shilling’s Worth ever Published t
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations for 1/- nett.
Of all Booksellers, orC.W. Buokland, Agent
for W. W. Greener, 317 Collins St, MELB.
“APENTA,” „ t . ,
The Best Purgative Water
For continuous use by the Gouty, the Constipated,
and the OBESE,
and
as an occasional Laxative.
Patents for Inventions. — Arthur Griffith
and Allen, International Patent Agents and Con-
sulting Engineers, University Chambers, Phulip-
streetf Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyrights
throughout the world.*
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there if
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“ Ellis’ King-street Coffee Palace,’
situated 60 KING STREET, and near the General Port
° ffiCe ' Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER ....
REUTER'S
LITTLE
PILLS FOR
THE LIVER .
Are particularly adapted to the needs
of the family, act in such a manner as to
cause no inconvenience, specially intended
for the cure of all ailments arising from a
disordered LIVER and STOMACH.
JOHN JAMESON
“THREE-STAR” WHISKEY.
Agents : J. BARRE JOHNSTON & CO., Loftns Street, Sydney.
Hardys Tintara Wines
Absolutely Pure; Fully Matured; 700 Medals, eto.
Adelaide:
CURRIE STREET
Melbourne;
COLLINS STREET
Sydney s
GROSVENOR STREET
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The knowledge of pace, in which Tom Hales
excelled all the Australian jockeys of his time —or any
other time, probably (Hales’ will, by the way, has just been
■worn at under £lBoo)—was never better shown than when
he won the Australian Cup of ’B4, on Morpeth. Starting
with the intention of riding a waiting race, he soon dis-
covered that the leaders had not been taking the field
alo.ng at what he knew to be a fair average pace for the
first half of the 2J-miles’ journey. Whereupon he pushed
Morpeth (8.5) to the front, and kept him there to the
end. Time, 4inin. 3jsec., sufficiently fast to settle the
chances of any speedier ones that might have beaten
Morpeth with a final rush if Hales hadn’t bustled them.
That was the year when the champion rider landed Rufus
—a 20 to 1 chance—for the V.R.O. Derby. Rufus was a
second-rate animal, but there didn’t happen to be any-
thing special to beat, and Tom Hales saved Morris
Jacobs' outsider for a sprint—irresistible in such
company. He could ride all sorts of horses to the
best of their abilities. He handled two-year-olds with
masterly skill. Punters backed “Hales’s mount” be-
cause they knew from experience that they would have
the man’s brain working for them. His most successful
contemporaries in his days of supremacy were Mick
O’Brien and Teddy Power —especially the former but,
whereas they sometimes lost a race through waiting too
long, Hales rarely cut things too fine. Of course, racing
in those times was not quite the reckless, happy-go-lucky
game which of late is confined to boy-riders of easy virtue.
When Hales went out to win a big event on one of James
White’s horses the stable invariably provided a pace-
maker, and the pursuing field was “ strung-out,
more likely than not, before the mannikins began
to think about the turn for home. If, perchance,
they were all mobbed together, the presence of Mr
Hales in their midst was a check upon malpractices.
Nobody ventured on monkey tricks with such sober men
of good repute as Hales and O’Brien, sporting the colours
of James White and Donald Wallace. It was not until
their retirement that the average jockey-boy became so
notorious a blackguard, and foul riding was accepted as
one of the inglorious certainties of the turf in Australia.
Hales had figured in the list of licensed jockeys for more
than 30 years ere he went to scale for the last time.
There isn't a boy riding races to-day, who looks likely to
last at the game until the Commonwealth is 10 years old.
Once-famoua N.S.W. jock Johnny Higgerson
(now 88) has a son 64, and 'looks like surviving at least
another score of years. Living at Ileathcote, few of to-
day’s sports know anything of him Half-a-century back
there were fewer still who hadn’t heard of this
then-most-talked-about rider on the continent. Matches
for £lOOO a-side were common at that time. Johnny
did best in ’57, when, on October 2, he Kot away
with three big ones that are often written and ' ial k ec ‘
of now. Higgerson was up on Veno when that
nag beat Alice Hawthorne in a 3-mile match for £2OOO,
each humping 10.1. Later, same da}’, same rider brought
Coofamin home in front of Tomboy, over L,m., for £4OO,
and then had the mount on Veno against Van Tromp (tor
£800) over 3 miles, each carrying 10.1. Veno won again.
Sometime subsequently (May, ’5B), Veno, with Higgerson
up once more, went under to Lauristina in a gallop to.
JOHNNY HJGGERSON,
A Famous Jock of the Olden Time.
Eden, Photo., Melbourne.
£2OOO ' but, a year afterwards, J.H. evened up things some
bv landing Ben Bolt (9.5) ahead of Lauristina (8.11) in
another big contest. A two-mile tussle between Gratis
and Chevalier at Honiebush for £lOOO saw Johnnie scoop
the coin on the former. As a boy, Higgerson, on Bess-
irr-Bedlam, beat Mr. W. H. Suttor’s Theorein for £lOOO
This was the first big match ever decided in N.S.W., and
it created heaps of excitement. Conditions were first two
of three two-mile heats. Johnnie won straight off.
Although race-club stewards, by abolishing their
ancient right to ‘pot’ owners for the swindles of a
previous meeting, have encouraged them to run byes for
the alleged benefit of their horseflesh, it not infrequently
happen! that Providence drops upon the evil-doer.
Whensoever two or three or more nags come to grief-
through accident—the chances are that they were not all
of them on the job. The non-trier sometimes gets
disqualified for life by reason of a broken leg or neck. If
Providence didn’t arrange these little mishaps the
“ sharpening-up process” would be even more pestilently
prevalent than it is. * # m
As showing how capricious luck is, take the case
of the Melbourne Tram Co’s employees, who run a fund for
buying sweep tickets, and have done so for years, each
contributor paying in a small sum weekly. Up to date
the syndicate has not landed a single sixpence out of
scores of ventures.
* • * *
“ W S T.”: How few photographers can “take”
a horse properly. Either they catch him when he is
asleep, or Shev get their foreshortening in such a way as
to make one ‘p arfc of the moke look as lf lt; kelon "<r <i
some other animal. Take a current much-published
nicture of Hvmettus. The head and neck are big enough
for <x> Flanders draught, while the balance is fairly like a
thoroughbred. The Caulfield Cup horse is not a beauty,
but he is far from being as ugly as his picture.
The popular “gag” with the crowd on the flat
these times takes the form of a question to the various
iockevs as they amble their horses up to the post. * bay,
Jim is your mount suffering from rheumatism ? One
time a bad performance by a good animal was accepted m
the newspapers as “ unaccountable,” but now it is gravely
put down to rheumatics.
A * * * *
Tiio new 44 Grand Stand 5 at Gaulfield has no
chairs in it at present—only tiers of boarding, broader
than one gets for shilling seats at a circus, but not fur-
nished with strips of carpet, or matting. Previous to the
first race it is safe to squat upon the wooden “ terraces,
but as the day advances, discontented punters spit freely
upon the seating, and then the structure becomes a stand
in the full sense of the term.
Is there anything new ? From “ The
tlemen’s New Jockey ;or Farriers Approved Guide, date
1708 : “ Ever consider in a straight course to Eeep g
rein, not inclining to the right norr to.the left, and upi ght
nnipss in full course. at what time a little scooping mi
ward will not be amiss, for that will prevent gathering
the wind, the which, though it be unperceived, is a grea
hindrance to the speeded the horse. #
Onoe-mighty Hopscotch is now figuring in the
buggwshafts of Jimmy Wilson, Jur He ia 11 yearsi old,
commenced racing at four and won the Epsom
when he iust pipped northern N.S.W. nag Uourame.
Six w f a events and the Toorak Handicap fell to him a
velr later after which he became a horse of not much
Importance. An offer of 115 guineas kept the once
brilliant performer in Melbourne, where he shaped on the
flat and as a “ lepper,” but didn’t pay costs.
• * * *
“Waiau”: The tote can get back on the
bookies in more ways than one. Saw an event once at a
M.L. race-meeting where scratchings reduced the fie
two-a flyer and a crock. The crowd bought they
wise and weren’t going to put their bit on the fast nag
the fun of getting it back, less 10 per cent., and it
looked as if both mokes would start unbacked-on the
machine. One man, however saw. possibilities in the
situation, and having found a bookie ready to lay tote
odds, gave him a tenner on the swift horst : ‘^
and stood bv the machine. Just before the bell i rang■ > “
took out a fiver and called for four tickets on the crock,
and one on the “ dead bird. Result : the bird pa
a dividend of £4 10s., and then the particular Ikey Mo
interested, as usual, said many bad words on having to
part up. What he would have said if the show had been
given away is beyond imagination.
* * *
“Tatt.” gets queer requests with applications
for ticket-forms. One superstitious investor known to
present writer has for years asked for one particular
number (63187). Sometimes he got it and drt ' v
but this year in the big sweep he got it again a. ,d panne
out a £5OO cash prize.
* * * *
The V.R.C.’s breach of the 10th Command-
ment, in the matter of Flemington Ekt, gets every year
more pronounced, and though it can’t charge the general
public, the fees it levies on the ice-cream and hot-pie men
and other caterers are staggersome.
•» * * *
When will punters cease to be caught by the
bogus wager of the “bloke” who goes round makmg a
favorite” for Ikey Mo? The bogus backer is a ver.V
simple-seeming fraud-when you know it. Ike}
3 to 1 on the field, and the punters around him can t quite
make up their minds to rush in and take the price
“ before it shortens.” Then comes along the (.acoy bloke
in a state of melodramatic excitement. Thice ntues
roars he, over the heads of the crowd, and immediately
the crowd follows the lead. After which the;.same bloke,
or his twin brother, “ books ” a vehement fifty to v.en
about another popular fancy, and again the crowd are
influenced. -
* *
A recent law case between two employees of the
Melbourne G.P.O. as to an alleged partnership, ina Tatt, s.
sweep ticket revealed the interesting fact that the lucky
drawer of a first prize had never speculated in more than
one ss. ticket at a time, sharing the investment with one,
two, or three partners. Fortune seems to incline towards
syndicators who risk little and expect much. The .letter-
sorter aforesaid used to talk hopefully of stntanjj!«
next time,” and pretty soon he did strike it.
in at least two of the Melbourne Cup sweeps this year
were captured by single ticket syndicates, but,
other hand, the £13,500 payment from Tatts. s P e °;
went to the purchasers of a large parcel.. As a ruk it.
the lone-hand punter, addicted to putting two or thiee
pounds a time on his luck, who finds that he has no luck
at all. t • ,
“'Honesty may be the best policy,” but this
is the candid confession of a Melbourne cynic ; I only
stole money once in my life, and that was when I v a
youngster working in a city warehouse. 1 ,^ nves "®? 5
money in a big sweep, and won two thousand five
hundred sovereigns." .
* * * *
Wild Gat, a M.L. noddy, is by Gold Reef-
Tigress. t t
According to the precious Rules of Racing, as
constituted in Maoriland, club stewards have no power
to prevent an inhuman owner starting a hopelessly Jame
horse, so long as his fees are paid and everything else is
in order. At the Taieri meeting, on Nov. 9, the venerable
Hippomenes, who was badly beaten m one event, was
sent out in a terribly cronk condition for the very next
race, in which he had to meet a much better field, ine
stewards laid low and said nothing, but there was such a
howl about the matter that the Society for the prevention
of Cruelty to Animals stepped in and prosecuted John
and Robert M‘Kay, who were each fined 50s. and costs—
which looks like a totally inadequate punishment.
Horses which limp to the post, suffering from soreness,
shake it off when warmed up in their preliminary . but
prads in a palpably bad condition, which hop along on three
legs, should be impounded, or the starter impowered to
order them off the field. A regulation is needed, also,
against the starting of ahorse three times in one shor
afternoon. The unfortunate mok e may be called upon
to make six efforts in two consecutive days. And a man
who’d chase money in that fashion doesn t deserve to own
a horse.
* * * *
Writes “ Grey mouth,'’ apropos of the totalisator,
that much-maligned instrument which has, throughout
Maoriland, attained the reputation of being quite a moral
reformer. “My recollections of sport go back to a time
when bookmakers were a rarity in Australasia, and the
tote had not yet come to pass. In those early days, when
races were run for the bare stakes, and the intervals
between the events were spun out in the interests of the
booth-holders, the precincts of the race-track were wont
to be strewn with ‘ dead ’uns ’ like, to an Omdurman,
With the present up-to-date appliances the interim
between races is whiled away by the occupants of stands
and lawn in comparing ideas upon the latest state of the
odds as registered by the machines. The struggle to
reduce the figures to simple odds keeps men sober.
Gambling may be an evil; but, anyhow, a man can t
gamble and be lying down dead drunk at the same time.
Such is fame. Athletic history bristles with
instances of the whilom idolised champion pulling up in
the poorhouse, or passing away through sheer want.
Latest case is one-time famous cricketer John Jackson
out in Australia 40 years ago with George Parr s team.
The old-timer died in Liverpool (Eng.) workhouse last
month, setat 70. Few have risen to his level as a fast
bowler. He had an easy style of delivery that stood to
him long after others had reached tether-end. Jackson
whs over 6ft., and could bat and field with the best.
Bowling on Sydney Domain ground in ’64, he got 13 of 22
wickets for 35. Thirty years ago, the appalling deeds of
John Jackson and George Tarrant were a great cricket
tradition, and small boys used to talk of batsmen having
been maimed and slain by their lightning deliveries. Prob-
ably Jackson never rocked them in as fast as the Richardson
of eight years ago. It is certain that he didn’t attempt to
get a break on the ball, but, in his plain old-fashioned
wav', he was a worker who deserved a belter fate than the
work’us. . ,
* * * *
“ J a b ” : Re pug fatalities. The swell National
Sporting Club of London has had five inquests in four
years, the outcome of bruising struggles under its
management. Three of these occurred since the ring
floor was heavily padded and 6oz. were substituted for
4oz glovesT WhilL S.A.G. Club in York-st., Sydney
ran for two years, brought off fights twice and thrice
sonm use K d bigger gloves than 2oz and
had the boards bare, yet not a single fEttaUby was
recorded, nor the slightest approach thereto. Is it that
the Australian is tougher than the what
When Rev. A. R. Edgar, the big parson who
runs Melbourne Central Mission, was looking round for
suitable halls he interviewed pugilist Mick Nathan pio-
orietor of the Victoria Hall. Mick looked at him
admiringly, and after careful survey of the pastor s liberal
proportions, remarked, “ I wish I’d had you 30 y® ar ®
I’d have put you into form, so that you could ha ® „
up against Peter Jackson, or Slavm, or the best of them.
The next Saturday night, at the conclusion of the boxing
match Mick himself announced to the astonished pugs
that next day Rev. A. R. Edgar would hold divine service
in that hair y He said it lovingly. I*® who S ive3 a
leg-up to a new-found brother.
* * * *
Jab : Can’t understand why pugs are at such
pains in the ring to shift the padding °f gloves so that
the back knuckles may have none over them. Pads usea
for fights nowadays rarely weigh in excess of 4oz. .they re
mostly 3oz. or under, hence there s nothing gained hy stow
ing all the hair down about the fingers or upagamstthe
wrist. Writer recollects when Jim Corbett and Joe Ohoynski
fought years ago on a barge near Benicia (Cal.) that only
of gloves materialised, and these weighed 2oz.
Then someone produced a pair of driving-gloves. During
the barney that followed Corbett expressed wilhngness
to use the 2oz„ articles, allowing Choynski the others.
This apparent magnanimity was applauded at the time,
and subsequently made much of by the newspapers but
there was nothing generous about it, as Corbett had the
greater protection for his knuckles, while every stiff
thump Choynski landed made him wmce paipably Cor
bett cut Choynski to pieces almost. All .through his
career Peter Jackson would stand no tinkering with his
gloves. They were used exactly as handed to him, and
Peter knew as much of the game as anyone.
The ’Murkan article has slumped in the Eng-
lish iockey market. Recent failures of Lester Reiff in the
St. Leger and Doncaster, and his subsequent disquali-
fication, brought heaps of adverse criticism, and killed t
demand. London Sporting Times says. a good
butcher-boy on his back, Volodyovski ° O, Md not lost
the St. Leger, and it was. the same at Hurst Park (the
Doncaster).” “Breathing the impure air of ani e t
tyrannical and bloated monarchy " is urged as a Probable
cause of the Yankee riders’ many laches in En £‘ an “- i ll 3
further stated they’ll not be missed as while they ve
adopted the worst of the English methods, the Engh^ 1
jock ha§ appropriated the best of Yankee ideas. Them
unpopularity is covered by the remark of Englis
rider, that “the Yankees don’t mind what bread the}
take out of anyone’s mouth so long as they can fill then
own pockets.” . * *
“A. 8.”: Cricket seems to have re-asserted its
popularity as a “ draw ” in Australia ; but the exponents
thereof will soon kill public interest if batting is allowed
to fall into the old Bannerman-Moses style. It is not jso
long ago that 400 runs per day was only considered fairly
fast in “ big cricket,” but lately the rate bas been slow y
dropping until it now averages 250 only.
* * * *
‘‘ An odd feature of London’s big playing-
grounds (says The Bulletin’s London correspondent) is
the number of boy-cricketer ‘pros, who habitually
attend to hire their prowess to junior teams at halt-a-
crown the afternoon. Some of them have reputations
which ensure employment for them regularly each
Saturday ; and when it is considered that Regent s 1 ark,
Raynes ' Park, &c., have each nearly 100 matches con-
tested thereon at the week end, there is a large market for
the useful boy-trundler or run-getter. Among the
juniors the increase of Sunday cricket of late years lias
been widespread, and as each club pays £2.5 to £3O for the
use of a pitch on alternate Saturdays during the season,
it pays private owners of playing-grounds better than
building upon them.”
. * * •
Westraliai has a batsman, R. 11. Niebus, who is
said to be better than Bannerman at stone-walling. A
local paper records that in despair at getting him out
otherwise, the bowlers successfully tried him with slow
“ under arm ” balls pitched very high in the air so as to
drop on to his wicket. But a small boy batsman ought
to be equal to that trick.
* * *
N.S.W. endurance swimming has been steadily
declining. Few can now cover over a quarter-mile
at anything like good pace. Almost certain cause is
that most clubs only provide for short distance races,
from 33 to 100yds., so as to secure good entries. Yet these
bodies claim to have been formed “ for the purpose of
fostering and developing the art of swimming. Bal-
main (one of the oldest clubs in Sydney) issues a season
list which shows every event to be only over one and
two laps (68£vds. to the lap) of the local baths. fos-
tering and developing swimming.” Ratz 1
* * * *
“Met W. G. George, the famous ped.” (writes
The Bulletin’s London correspondent) “ and he looks
almost as firm, wiry, and well as he did 14 or 15 years ago,
during his Austral trip. Tells a yarn, worthy of being
true, of his last day in Melb. He had sent all his traps
and surplus cash on board the mail steamer, leaving him-
self enough ’oof to have a merry night and pay his train
fare to Adelaide to pick up the ship. The friends were
merry and hot and the night long. Morning saw W.G.G.
wanting his train fare. He walked along Swaiiston-st. to
Bourke-st., and by the gutter outside the Royal Mail
spied a crumpled bit of paper. Dazy listlessness caused
him to pick it up, and he straightened out a— fiver.
, * * »
Sculler Towns writes that Harry Pearce, of
Double Bay, N.S.W., was to have rowed in the_ Tyne
(Eng ) Xmas handicap. Meanwhile Towns hopes big Jim
Stanbury will challenge him, as he is waiting for someone
to come along. He wants little “ Merc, amateur Daley
to o*o ’Ome for next Henley, when and Hurka
wilf be represented, and tip 3 the Australian to squelch
the lot. # .
Doctors in Europe are seriously considering
whether chess-playing is not a disease, demanding treat-
ment like any other mental obsession or drug habit.
People .who take to chess in earnest gradually lose interest
in all else, and professionals usually end m the mad-
house. Of celebrated chess-players, Minckewitz went mad
and committed suicide, Steinitz and Morphy died insane.
Australia will recollect one chess ohampionwhoplayed
the “ game ” so ardently that he used to faint over the
board. Undoubtedly chess is like morphia or alcoho ,
capable of giving strange pleasures to a devotee, but
exacting terrible penalties from its slaves.
Melbourne Bike Club is taking heroic, not to
say ridiculous, steps to quell Ikey. First it stopped his
awful yells, which was a good move ; but now it pens the
competitors off from the public with a double fence and
a large space between, so that Ikey can’t whisper his cor-
rupting offers or tip the wink in accordance with previous
arrangements. But Ikey gets there Just the same with
the private signal.
(Continued on page td.)


A FREE VETERINARY BOOK.
A most useful Veterinary Bookis attached
to every bottle of Condy’s Fluid. This Book
contains instructions for curing most of the
ailments and accidents affecting Horses,
Dogs, Sheep, Cattle and Poultry.
Eminent Veterinary Surgeons recom-
mend Condy s Fluid as an absolutely
certain cure for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs
Bioken Knees, Grease, Thrush and
Cracked Heels in Horses—-Scab, Foot
Rot, Fly, etc., in Sheep—Hoove, Foul in
the Foot, Wounds and Sores in Cattle.
Condy's Fluid is made by Condy &
Mitchell, Ltd., of 65, Goswell Road
London, England, and is sold by all
Cnemists and Stores. Beware of Colonial
substitutes. Insist on having Condy’s Fluid.
ď
f
GrO TO HEX.L-
HiOJiANh for Pretty Stamps, bat
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hagci?,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Llizateth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, prioe*
lists gratis.
HATS.
HATS, HATS.
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fitted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
BRISBA.KTE.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY # CO.,
I*us'ftiture and b'ine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 Goorgs Surest, Syd.no/,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION 4, FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, con lucted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the. Auction /looms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Kradley & Go., 324 Geprge-st
For the Ham
OWMNP
It is the most reliable and the best-
prepa ration for the hair, you can obtain,
no years success proves this. It
PRESERVES THE HAIR
restores it when thin or withered, cures,
b • dness, eradicates scurf, is specially
adapted for Ladies’and Childrens’Hair,
and is also sold in a
GOLDEN COLOUR
for fair or grey hair, which does not
stain or darken the hair, or linen.
Sold by Stores or Chemists. Ask’ for
Rowlands,67, Hatton Garden,London.
S!MPSON’S SULKIES & BUGGIES
Eactorv and Showroom : 73 KING STREET, NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
Good Work
Lowest Price
Cash Only
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Jingo ideal—A Red Australia.
Almost all the undertakers in N.S.W. are
now J.’sP.
Pilcher, K.C., M.L.C., broke out recently
in Maoriland after this fashion, and even the anti-
Fedaral Sydney Telegraph hooted in derision:
All the Australian colonies were opposed to Federation
under the scheme of the existing Act, and he predicted
that if the Commonwealth Government did not realise
the absurdity of the course it was adopting, the much-
vaunted Federation would be short-lived.
A man who knows Peacock well sends
this:—
The sincerity of Victorian Premier Peacock in regard to
the question of sending more hen-roost robbers to South
Africa can be judged from the fact that a week before he
framed his marvellously patriotic telegram to the other
Premiers he was overheard in a railway carriage to say :
“ The Australian contingents ha ve been a mistake. They
have ruined hundreds of real good fellows.” Also, during
the time the press and members of Parliament were
threatening to throw him out because he could not find
work for all the returned warriors Peacock made no secret
of his feelings with regard to South African contingents.
“ Cm disgusted with the whole business,” was a phrase
continually on his lips. And yet this is the same Peacock
who has been “ sooling ” the Federal Govt, on to send
another contingent and to ruin more “good fellows.”
Perhaps it isn’t the same Peacock, though. It is possibly
a Peacock looking for a title. The coronation is handy.
Whatever motives actuated Peacock and his brother-Pre-
miers, they have been unfaith-
ful to the true interests of Aus-
tralia— the land to which they
owe all they have.
CONCENTRA-
TION CAMP
MORTALITY.
AUG.
SEPT.
2474 Children
OCT.
NOV.
4904 Children
THOSE WHO WILL NEVER RETURN.
"Lord Rosebery suggests that as an inducement to the
Boers to consent to peace, Britain should offer to lavishly re-stock the devastated farms.”— NEWS ITEM.
BRITAIN ( effusively): "Here, madam, here’s your cows; let us be friends now.”
BOER WOMAN: “And the children?”
Under the new Constitution Act, S.A.
Ministers are in future to be four instead of six.
It is generally expected that Lands o‘Loughlin
and Education Brooker will be the two to go
overboard. o‘Loughlin is a farmer, and Brooker
runs a woodyard in an Adelaide suburb.
The Seddon (M.L.) Government has no
foresight. It is buying out the Manawatu Rail-
way Co. at 325. per share, and is allowing, at the
same time, a cable tramway to be run by a private
company to K'elburne and Karori, from Lambton
Quay, Wellington. By-and-by it will have to
buy this out at the syndicate’s price.
Premier Barton’s entourage on his trip to
Maitland consisted of Messrs. D. O’Conner,
M.L.A., Y. B. Curran, O. C. Beale, J. Gillies,
M.L.A., H. J. Clarence Backhotase,
Alderman Jackson, and G. Gosche. Estimable
gentlemen, no doubt, but what a following for a
national Premier ! Alas for the respect destroyed
by vacillation and timidity.
Another Boer “atrocity” gone wrong,
vide cablegram :
London, Tuesday.—Lord Kitchener denies that the
British Intelligence officers, Steere and Kerr, were
treacherously shot by the Boers, as recently reported.
[lt was announced on New Year’s Day that two British
Intelligence officers named Steere and Kerr were shot
dead by the Boers while holding a parley with some
pseudo-surrenderers at Warmbaths, in the northern
Transvaal.]
Premier Seddon’s 1000 recruits are coming
on badly. There were plenty of applicants, but
few were able to pass a simple riding test. Of the
Auckland contingent 20 failed to attend at the
last moment, a number of others deserted at New
Plymouth en route to Wellington, and an old
offender was discovered in the ranks and arrested
by the police. Even brass bands and Ministerial
speeches fail to rouse any great enthusiasm.
Let there be no “ bones ” about it—
Germany is Britain’s unsleeping enemy. For
years England has been accustomed to look upon
Germany as her “ poor relation ” with tolerant
contempt. Germany, now claiming to be the
first military power in Europe, bitterly resents
this, and is eager to challenge England as a naval
and colonising power. Organising for the struggle
in an essentially careful and German manner, the
Teutonic empire does not at all regard the con-
tract which it has deliberately undertaken to be a
hopeless one.
An important item to come before the
P.L.L. of N.S.W. on the 27th insfc. is a proposed
amendment of the Compulsory Arbitration Act in
the direction of excluding counsel from the Arbi-
trator’s Court. The advantage of exclusion is
incontestable. But will the P.L.L. be able to
realise its purpose ? It will not be enough to shut
the door of the Court in the face of counsel.
Counsel laugh at that. Similar doors have several
times been closed against them, but counsel got to
the table all the same. The P.L.L. must also
look to the windows, and place iron bars across
—several bars to the foot. And the chimney
must be looked to. Some patent contrivance that
will choke counsel must be set midway up the flue.
And even then it
is almost certain
counsel will get
in.
Elicited in the official inquiry on the loss
of H.M.S. Active, in October, that the ship was
unworkable at the time through so many of the
crew being helplessly sea-sick ! What would have
been said of W. S. Gilbert’s extravagance if he
had invented this?
There were some New Year’s honors
about, after all. Her Grace of York appointed
Lady Mary Lygon a “woman of the bedcham-
ber,” and-Lady Katharine Coke as an “extra
woman.” But, barring the fact that a lady was
appointed to be a woman, the honor list was as
barren as a bed of sand.
Sydney Telegraph, in last
Friday's leading article, said that
Premier Barton’s lofty reproof of
the bounding Henniker Heaton for
his “meddling” was uncalled for,
becaa.se Henniker’s message
Only pledged the Victorian Minister,
and it was not his fault that Mr. Cham-
berlain read it as involving the Common-
wealth Government.
ThtrtHs one way of looking at the
matter. The other way is s:
M‘OhllocAi and the dreadful Juen-
niJter offered (by cable') to find the
men. They asked Chamberlain to
communicate on the matter with
Federal Defence Minister Forrest.
When he communicated accepting,
apparently said no more
about finding any men, and Hen-
niker spent his time in explain-
ing to the public that, though he
didn’t supply any men, or any
money, or even furnish the idea,
still he was the glorious individual
who ran swiftly to the post-office
with the cablegram.
Brisbane Courier has been of
late.to collecting arguments for the
retention of the Kanaka. Tommy
Tfwma himself has been induced to
testify abundantly, and deposes in
a recent issue : “Me no want to go
bank ’loaga island. Boys ’longa
island bad fellows. No church
there ; No Swnday - school ! No
Holy Oommimion! ” Almost in-
credible that a “ leading ” news-
paper would print such an atrocious
joke.
Bewailing the changes in the Federal
tariff—to make which it enthusiastically sooled
on the Freetraders and Labor members —Sydney
Telegraph (Jan. 13) sheds an especially bitter
tear over the “ loss” of the cotton duties :
The needs of the Treasury called for a determined stand
by the Barton Ministry for at least 10 per cent, on all
cotton f-oods. But it was not attempted, and the effect
cannot foil to be demoralising.
But at the time the cotton duties were being dis-
cussed the same paper represented them as the
concrete embodiment of plutocratic tvranny
directed against , the pore working man,' The
Telegraph is just now in the painful position of
a boy -who has thrown a stone through a plate-
glass window, and is in trembling wonder as to
how on earth the damage is to be made good.
“ Quad.” : Sydney clothing manufacturing
trade is in a bad state just now, and the ware-
houses are playing the game for all it is worth. A
group of manufacturers banded together in
October last for the purpose of getting
approximately uniform prices, and these
have conceded some- thing like a living
wage to their employees. But the small
fry, and at least one seceder from
the banded brotherhood, are cutting
prices hard, and accepting work from
the warehouses at rates that will not
oermit of log wages being paid to
the employees. The associated men,
if things go on as they are doing,
must needs cut prices again to com-
pete with the sweaters, and as that
also means cutting wages, a return to
the old, awful conditions is likely, unless
help comes from some quarter. The York-
street merchants —the foreign trade crowd—-
by their support of the sweater gang, are largely
responsible for this state of affairs. The case of the
women and girls engaged in the clothing
should be one of the first submitted to N.S.W.
Court of Arbitration.
Snow s tramway grab, which now only
needs the confirmation of the ratepayers to be
consummated, is meeting with strong opposition
from those Adelaide suburbs which will not <>nt
electric traction under the Snow scheme, but
retain the present effete horse-car system.
Democrats may yet kill this unspeakable Bill for
it is only just dawning on the people that the
Snow crowct only proposes to electrify the biggest
and best-paying lines.
Queensland politicians want it decided
that, in reckoning population with a view to re-
presentation in the Federal Parliament, aborigines
and Kanakas who have married aborigines shall be
counted. If this is done, Queensland will get
another Federal member. Queensland politicians
are addicted to denying the existence of a mongrel
population within their borders, but here we find
them demanding an extra representative partly
on account of the abundance of their mongrel.
The charges Premier Laurier, of the Cana-
dian Dominion, made against Commandant
Hutton were “ insubordination, indiscretion, and
ignoring the authority of the Minister of Defence.”
But our Bigjohn Forrest has also had some ex-
perience at ignoring the dry-blowers in the West,
and he conversed with bullocks to some extent
when he was younger, and if his own language
gives out he can borrow some. What Bigjohn
doesn’t know about borrowing could be written on
the wing of a fly.
Chamberlain’s latest : “ Great Britain is
npt entitled to make peace unless on terms which
will prove satisfactory to the allies who sent of
tbeir best to fight and die for the common cause.’’
That being so, Chamberlain had better make
If be doesn’t (so rapid and radical is
the change in; Australian public opinion) his
erstwhile allies in this quarter will, when he con-
sults them, yell for the return to those Boers who
happen to be unshot, unhanged, or unconcentrated
of the land he has stolen at the behest of Cohen.
WHO SAID CONSTITUTIONAL REFORM?
During last session the Queensland Oppo-
sition did practically no stonewalling, and thereby
landed the Government in a curious hole. The
Philp crowd had introduced something like a
dozen measures, all much more progressive than
usual, as purely electioneering manoeuvres. The
calculation was that the Labor party would get in
the vvay, aaid acquire the reputation of “ blocking
useful legislation.” But the Labor party kept
very silent, and the Govt, was compelled to with-
draw its own bogus measures after the second
reading, and show up the whole business.
Sydney D.T. :
Mr. Barton is acknowledged even by his best friends*
[the paper is so intimate with all his best friends] not to
have been a success as a Prime Minister. The popular idea
appears to be that he will go on the Bench, probably in
the recess.
Then it discusses, as future Premiers, Deakin,
Turner, R. E. O’Connor, and Kingston, with
never a word about poor Bill Lyne (who once
thought he had absolute right of succession).
Can’t Lyne try and make the D.T. friendly some
more ? At one time it would have mentioned him
as a probable if the Russian throne were vacant.
The Philp G( >vemment’s explanation as to
the suppression of two reports by railway officials,
stating that the rolling-stock and permanent way
on the Northern lines were in a dangerous state,
and that accidents were only averted by the kind-
ness of Providence and the extreme care of the
engine-drivers, is to hand. One Minister, speak-
ing for the Gov ernment, explained that the reports
“ w ere not worth printing.” In any other State,
the disclosures as to the dangerous condition of
the railways, and as to the suppression of reports
thereon, would almost certainly lead to the fall of
somebody. In Queensland, with the exception of
a protest from the Labor Opposition, they have
passed almost without discussion.
Sydney Telegraph, which at one time
barracked incessantly for a Federal capital at
Canoblas, so that all the trade would be annexed
by Sydney, recently sent out a special commis-
sioner of its own to examine the proposed sites.
He reported in a series of elaborate articles, and
gave his verdict thus : Bombala, best; Tumut,
second best; Canoblas, a bad third ; Yass and'
Albury, fourth and fifth. The award was by-
points—so many for water-supply, climate, cheap-
ness of acquisition, accessibility, &c. Bombala
scored 70 points ; Tumut, 65 ; Canoblas, a miser-
able 48; Yass, 46; and Albury, 44. When its
principal barracker has gone back on it so deci-
sively, Canobhis ought to consider itself lost. It
went down most of all on the important water-
supply question—2s points for Bombala, and only
eight for Canoblas. And the Federal city will
want to wash itself occasionally.
Brisbane Courier (31st December, 1901):
Mr. Cameron’s appeal may be taken by the Federal
Premier as a warning that there is a limit to the tolera-
tion of interference with State rights, and that the abuse
of Federal authority may lead to disaster, hut secession ig.
an ugly word, whose use is not vet to be justified except
as the result of the proved and permanent baneful opera-
tion of national union.
“ Secession is an ugly word whose use is not yet-
justified.” So the Courier, which begins to fool:
clumsily with the part which Jeff Davis played
in the slave States of America, evidently looks,
forward to a time when the term will be justified.
And all this high moral tone is because Queens-
land, has deliberately and of its own free will,
handed over to the Commonwealth the sole power
„to make laws regarding alien races, and the Com-
monwealth uses that power in the way that the.
Queensland majority, by its vote at the Federal
elections, expressly demanded.
THE POT AND THE POTTED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Omar cried : “ What is the Potter, pray,
And who, I pray you tell me, is the Pot ? ”
It strikes one, in this dismal latter day,
Th’ heartless Austral is the “ Potter ” —aye,
The mighty “ Potter,” is he not ?
And—Tears for you, O burghers stern and grey—
The homeless veldtman is the “ Pot! ”
V.
GRANT HERVEY.


UY
FOR YOUR
DRAWING ROOM
WE CAN RECOMMEND A
Feurich^
* PIANO
The finish of these elegant and artistic Pianos is
really excellent and perfect in every detail.
The case work is modelled on graceful lines.
The tone is of that singing and sustaining
quality so much appreciated by connoisseurs
and artists.
The material used in the construction of the
Feurich Piano is the best, and the work-
manship most thorough.
The price is exceedingly low considering the high
standard the Feurich Pianos present.
& & J*
Call or Write for Prices and List
of Easy Terms.
“VICTOR” PIANO
To be a Victor is to prove one’s self a
“ winner.” The Victor has won for us in
Australasia a name we are justly proud of.
The immense number sold last year proves
their great popularity. They were sent to all
parts of N.S.W. and Queensland and gave
universal satisfaction.
The Victor Pianos are made in three
models*:—
No. 1 Victor. —-In elegant Walnut
Case, full Iron Frame and extended
Sound-board.
No. 2 Victor.— ln Handsome Walnut
and Gold or Black and Gold Case, full
Iron Frames and Check Action.
No. 3 Victor. —With Cabinet Top or
Music Receptacle with Artistic Mar-
quetry Panel. This useful adjunct
adds considerably to its already fine
appearance.
w* &
Call or Write for Catalogues,
Prices and List of Easy Terms.
PRLIHfi’S Stock also
Every Known
Musical
instrument.
VIOLINS.
We hold an Immense Stock of Violins at
prices as low as possible.
CORNETS.
One of our specialities is the ** Stlldsnt’s
Mode!,” an instrument possessing merits
not found in any other low priced Cornet.
Banjos-Guitars-Mandolins
The celebrated American Washburns
stocked.
Guitars and Mandolins of Italian and
American manufacture.
Banjos. — High-grade American, and
other makes.
You can get a good article for little money
at PALING’S.
Call or Write for Catalogues.
W. H. PALING & GO., Limited, 338 Ceorge-st, Sydney.
BRISBANE,
NEWCASTLE.
k
Copper
Gilded
letters.
For Signs and
Shop-fronts.
ABSOLUTELY
PERMANENT.
Sole Agents :
J.LeighJones&,Co
257 George St. ,
Jjnamia, UJeaknsss Qebiiity
Cured by Webber’s
VITADATIO
CALL AND SEE MR. WALKER AT HIS ADDRESS.
147 Denison-streeb, Waverley,
September 29th, 1900.
Mr. S. A. PALMER—
My daughter, 12 years of age, has suffered for years
from Ansmia, Weakness, and Debility. 1 had two leading '
doctors attending to her since she was four years of age,
and tried everything that I thought would do her good, hut
to no purpose, until some months ago a friend of mine who
was taking Webber’s VITADATIO for Hydatids advised me
to give her the same medicine, which I did, and after a
course of VITADATIO (which I obtained from the
Paddington. Agency, 377 Oxford-street) she gradually
improved, gained in weight, and got a good color, and is
now in the best of health. I hand you this testimonial to
make use of as you please for the benefit of others, and
will give further information to any person calling at my
address.—Yours faithfully,
(Mr.) H. WALKER.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials
AUSTRALIAN .
The First
Australian Stamp.
STAMPS
Highest Cash Prices Paid
to any amount for
Old or Rare Stamps,
Used or Unused.
m
For Sale—The largest Stock of STAMPS, ALBUMS, etc.,
m the Southern hemisphere.
SMYTH & NIGQLLE, 14 Hunter-st., Sydney.
arunKs.
JServous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue *
<*■
CALL AS NAN
SHOE
LADIES.
FOR
OTHERS
HAVE
ORDERED
HAVE
YOU
THIS SHOE IS PHOTO-
GRAPHED FROM STOCK.
. •
'■-v
i
Special design in our own
Shoe, made of American
glace-kid, with an up-to-date
stylish toe-cap of patent leather,
and having the newly-fashioned
Collarette, as shown in the engraving.
Wear Absolutely Guaranteed,
12/11 ; post paid, 13/6.
CALLAGHAN BOOTS OR SHOES can BE EXCHANGED if not correct,
as we wish DISTANT customers to be as pleased as those in town.
&r Your money RETURNED if you are not satisfied with the Boots.
CALLACHAN & SON, 395 Ceorge St., Sydney
. Dr. Paterson, for a quarter of a century S.
Australia’s Colonial Surgeon and Supt. of the
City Lunatic Asylum—the latter office came to
him first—died in the first week of January.
Though only 66 at the time of his death, he had
been for several years out of harness; partly, no
doubt, because —good, hard-headed Scotsman
as he was—he had got together much siller.
For years he was regarded as the State’s leading
expert in diseases of the brain.
Mrs. Eleanor Nicholson, who died recently
at Woollahra (Sydney), was the real founder of
Melbourne Orphanage. The Orphanage was not
a premeditated act of philanthropy ; it happened
first of all, and then it grew. In the early Fifties
a wild-looking man reported himself as having
murdered his wife and two children, and declared
his intention of killing the third child. The police
captured the maniac, and then investigated, and
found that the two children were not really dead.
Mayor Smith (the writer believes it was he—at
all events, John Thomas Smith, the donkey -
iinporter, was Mayor of Melbourne for seven
years about that time and he seems the most pro-
bable person) asked Mrs. Nicholson, by an easy
process of being benevolent by deputy, to do
something for the children, and she hired lodgings
for them and engaged a nurse. By the same pro-
cess of being benevolent by deputy His Washup,
and the Washups who followed him, asked her to
“do something” for other waifs, and she. did
something. It was Mrs. Nicholson’s private
orphanage which grew into the. present public
institution, and in establishing it the deceased
lady did more for Australia than if she had given
£100,000 to found a Chair of Piano-Banging at a
university, or presented the Art Gallery with a
£20,000 picture of a greenish female sitting on a
dripping green rock with a fern getting into her
eye.
“ Melb.” : Obit. Alfred Wyatt, aged 83.
Wyatt labored under an nnfortunate but whilom
common impression, that the Melbournians of
from 1850 to ’60 were the greatest men that ever
lived, so, for the best part of his life, he went with
his eyes in the back of his head. Geo. Paton
Smith, who afterwards proved a man almost of
the first order, when, as M'Culloch’s Attorney-
General, he beat the whole Bench of Judges over
the Ettershank and Glass case, used to bungle as
Argus law reporter, and was fearfully plucked in
trying to become a barrister. The Argus shifted
him, in favor of Wyatt, who was competent
enough as Argus law reporter, but lazy and care-
less, with a knack of giving every point except the
most important. Meanwhile, little M‘Kinley, the
best law reporter ever known in Melb , was run-
ning rings round him, in the morning Herald,
and the Argus took him on, sacking Wyatt.
Something had to be done for this impracticable
sort of man. Wyatt, in fact, was the sort of man
that something is generally done for. Amiable
and benevolent, still he always posed as a survivor
from a grander and nobler generation, wherefore
work was a condescension. They put him into a
paid magistracy, which, at all events, secured him
the pension. He was mostly hidden away up
country, where the papers didn’t notice him much.
In the bush lie used to deliver an Addisonian
essay over each twopenny-halfpenny case, and he
was only possible in a thinly-peopled district
where he could devote a whole day to lecturing
i.i.-i I-.-.


People are always trying various new
things for their baths, but to really refresh one
nothing comes up to Scrubb’s' Cloudy Ammonia,
it being far and away in front of everything that
I have yet come across as a pick-me-up when
tired after shooting, hunting, or what not.
b-Uite exceUent too, in every respect, is the
Antiseptic Skin Soap supplied by Messrs Scrubb,
and I strongly recommend it from personal
experience.*
Missing Friends.
T JVTNGr or DEAD ! The mother of Ernest
Laysell would thank any person able to
give her news of her son, last heard of at Oak-
hurst Station, February, 1895.
Address—Mrs. LAYZELL,
c/o Bulletin Office,
214 George-street, Sydney.
CHARLEY, who left Preston, England,
26 years ago, is inquired for by his sister EMILY.
Parents dead. Address—l Oroniartie Road, Laira Bridge
Road, Prince Rock, Plymouth, Eng.
Educational.
The Ballarat School of Mines.
m TIS SCHOOL, with its large staff and very
extensive appliances, affords special advan-
i; gjs to students desirous of obtaining a Diploma
in Mine Engineering or Metallurgy, or Certifi-
cates as Mine Manager or Assayer, or of gaining
special instruction in any other subjects apper-
taining thereto —
Chemistry, Metallurgy, Geology, Mining
Engineering, Surveying, Electrical Engi-
neering, Mathematics and Physics.
Duties resumed 3rd FEBRUARY.
Prospectus on application.
FRED. J. MARTELL,
Director.
Castro’s Last Sacrament
Br ALBERT DORRINGTON. 4s 6d.
UNDER DISTINGUISHED
m
ROYAL PATRONAGE.
I
r;
m
SI
m
E
iJIfS
il£S
Af
Main
Hi
From H.R.H. PRINCESS HQHENLOHF,.
(The German Ambassador’s Daughter.)
“ * KOKO ' lor the Hair is the BEST Dressing I
know. It keeps the head cool, promotes growth,
and is in EVERY way excellent.
PIHNCEss lIOHENLOHE.
Recommended and Used byH.M. The
Queen iof Greece). Princess Victoria
oi Schaumburg Lippe), Princess
Hoheniohe. Princess Marie
(of Greece), Princess Henry Reuss.
Rear-Admiral Tinklar. &c.. &c.
koko for the hair
OIJP use IT
to Vthe'luSS t&nrrtS dandViff ‘° gr °"; *“>*» St soft a " g PU«t. i mparts
cleanly ol all Pair preparations, and is perfectly harmlessl ’ prevents hair ivom filing. is the most
wonderful power to in vigorate decayed!)
iair, and induce an entire new growth when that is possible.
4Ci;» PEOPLE IJKK
IT,
VOITXG LADIES UKF It'
because it keeps dandriff a
vay, and makes the hair grow thick and strong.
CHIIJ>RKIV I.litE IT
o^^m^y‘;v^ C lvn^^^^'^ beaUtifUl lus tre, and enables them to dress it in W hat-
because it keeps the hair and scalp cool and clean
position desired. ’
aiiays irritation, and keeps the hair in whatever
thevau.
H IKI, IT
C do? s U^ B t S soi? n or ai colo n u? t <*»•'»*« »t
fabric in clothing, produces a wonderful pleasant and cnnlin > J < Sfoif 1 Sn B S ,lp i fa s e ’ or , Ilc mosfc delicate
is needed to give the ha.r the most elegant appearance possfb^Try^TtSfee, Md
df
Is., 23. 6d., and 3s. 6d., of all Chemists, Hairdressers, Stores, &c. r
Australian Depot: Koko-Maricopas Co., Ld., 13, Castlereagh St„ Sydney,N.S.W.
C BUTTON.—See that this Registered Trade Mark is on every bottle.
S:.M
See the Marvellous results obtained with the
No. 1 Panoram
KODAK
Which takes Wide Panoramic Pictures, 7in.
x 2£in., and is Loaded and Un-
loaded in Daylight ; also the
No. 3 Folding Pocket
Taking Pictures 3}in. x Pjin., fitted with
hap id Rectilinear Lens, Piilliant \ iew
hinder, made of aluminium.
Send for Illustrated Leaflets, and
mention this Paper.
To be obtained of all Dealers throughout
Australasia, or of—
Ltd,
THE BLOCK,
284- GOLUBS ST., MELBOURNE.
DEAFNESS
TN addition to the inconvenience inherent in the infirm-
ity itself, Deafness has a marked influence on the
Mental Development of the individual, when the latter
has been attacked by it in youth.
For a long time Deafness and Chronic Affections of the
Ear have been considered almost incurable, but recently
a very simple means has been fouiid in the Electricbn to
successfully apply Metallic Galvanic Electricity direct to
the ears, permanently curing Deafness, and completely
banishing all distressing' head noises.
Those who are interested in the subject would do well
(o read the complete description of this method of treat-
ment in the Journal for tiie Deaf, published by the
L. R. VERNON COY., 60=64 Hunter St., Sydney,
and sent FREE to anyone asking for it.
Too Stout
f was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Sending, mention this paper.
PUBIKESB, MEMOSY, 'FIGURES.— “ A business
. man’s book, really a useful little work, gives a host
of sound business, maxims and valuable hints:” —S. E.
News. “The memory system is ingenious. S.M. Herald.
“ Crowded with curious short cuts of calculation ; should
lead on to fortune.”—S.D.. Telegraph. Postal note, Is.
J. C. COX, DARLING 'ST., .BALMAIN, SYDNEY.
Irvwi; tnuLH and gray horses
; 2nd Edition. Price 4/6.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAIiLT'S INDIAN fiIfiARFTTFB
For Asthmatic people who suffer from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault s Cigarettes.render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
GRIMAHLT & Co., Paris, Sold bv all Chemists.
CURES
GOITRE.
Remarkable Discovery that Cures this
Dangerous and Disfiguring Disease
Without Pain, Operation,
or Inconvenience.
TRIAL PACKAGE SENT FREE.
Dr ; John P. Haig, a well known Cincinnati
physician, has had marvellous success with a
lemedy that cures Goitre or Thick Neck. And
MRS. ELLEN A. GLAYNOR, Covington, Ky., U.S.A.
was cured after suffering for 12 years ; 'if you
wish you are at liberty to write her.
owing to .the fact that most sufferers believe
Doitre is incurable Dr. Haig sends a free trial
package of his discovery so that patients may
try and know positively that Goitre can be cured
at home without pain, danger, operation or any
inconvenience. *
Send your name and address to Dr. John P
Haig 2563 Glenn Bldg., Cincinnati, Ohio, U.S.A.
and he will forward the trial package post-paid.
JJo not fail to get this wonderful remedy.
In Rio Janiero, Brazil, S. A., GO,OOO patients in
tnat infected district were cured with this same
remedy, and wherever used its success has been
marvellous. ■
-Remember a letter to America requires 21 d
postage. Write your name very plain and be
sure to give your full address so there can be no
mistake in delivery.
Her Hair
Returns.
Latly Prominent in Cr A.R. Circles Re-
gains Her Hair, Although Past Fifty,
By the Use of a New and Wonder-
ful Cure for Baldness.
A TRIAL PACKAGE FREE, POSTPAID.
S- Weed, treasurer of Swartz Corps
Ao. .11, W.K.C., with headquarters at New Albany,
Bradford Co., Pa., U.S.A., owes a luxuriant growth
of hair to a new and valuable remedy discovered
by-a Cincinnati Dispensary. In response to their
MRS. J. S. WEED.
offer to send free trials of their preparations, Mrs.
Weed used the remedies, and, although she was
past fifty years of age, at a time in life when people
imagine their baldness ishopeless, her hair grew out
with astonishing luxuriance, much to her surprise
and delight. Mrs. Weed kindly consented to per-
mit her photograph to be sketched—one taken some
time ago, when she was prematurely bald, and a
later one taken recently, showing the beautiful
effects of this remarkable hair-grower.
The remedy also cures itching and dandruff, sure
signs of approaching baldness, and keeps the scalp
healthy and vigorous. It also restores grey hair
to natural color and produces thick and lustrous
eyebrows and eyelashes. By sending your name
and address to the Altenheirn Medical Dispensary
4361 Butterfield Building, Cincinnati, ' Ohio’
U.S.A., enclosing a Id. stamp to cover postage’
and they will mail you, postpaid, a free trial
package of their remarkable remedy.
Remember, a letter to America requires 21 d.
postage. Write your name very plain, and be sure
to give your full address, so there can be no mis-
take in delivery
Agents WANTED in every
SENT US. Liberal Commission
Davies Franklin Cycle Co., Ballarat, Victoria.
At Poverty Point.
S.S. : The Gotham quartet, the most attractive
feature of Musgrove’s Melb. panto., is not anything like as
good at singing as the Cathedral quartet, but they crowd
many quaint effects into their part-songs, and are excel-
lent entertainment while they last. Which sets one
wondering : why has not a smart stage-manager taken
hold of the Cathedral quartet, who have been singing
about Melbourne for years, and coined a fortune out of
them ? There are many weird possibilities in the amazing
alto of the small fair man, and they are all rudimentary
comedians.
‘ D.W.” : Surely there are some writers of bright non-
sense in England who might turn their attention to a
branch of the game so profitable as musical comedy seems
i i ’ ave rage “ book ” of such productions is
deplorable. “ Florodora ” was the first decent dialogue
since “ The French Maid.” “The Geisha” seemed to
•f v!ii le lowest depths of dulness, but “ San Toy” beats
it hollow. There is not a bright line from beginning to
end ; there are tedious explanations of the plot, such as
enter into a badly-constructed melodrama ; and the songs
are introduced so clumsily that they had better be
announced by an interlocutor.
“ C.”: For genuine pathos go to a mirthful “ Vaudeville ”
entertainment that is endeavoring to push its way past
the patronage of slumdom. I strolled into some such
ramshackle “ hall ” the other night, where five ladies in
cotton-looking evening dress, and four gentlemen—
stage-niggers” and otherwise—were sitting round in
the usual semi-circle singing gay songs about their free-
dom from worldly cares. Presently the “star” of the
evening stepped forward, in a faded pink skirt and a
less faded bodice of the same color. She kept well facing
enee while she sang something about being a
child of nature ; and her gorgeous array made a great im-
pression. In an unhappy moment, however, she had to
leave the stage, and the “ Bones” got between her back
and the audience a moment too late, thereby revealing
the fatal circumstance that the cheap pink sateen of the
blouse did not go all the way round, the back being
simply black lining. The seeming bodice was evidently
the front she wore with a jacket on her Sunday out, and
the one extra yard needed to make it into a genuine all-
round evening dress affair was wanting. Think of being
joyful under conditions like these.
Agnes Sorel is a reigning Parisian theatrical star, from
a mistaken public idea that President Faure died at her
house.
London papers speak highly of Lafayette, a conjuror
new to the Big Smoke. He “dresses” his show in
gorgeous style, and produces birds, beasts and black boys
from handkerchiefs, empty cylinders and so forth.
George Coppin, doyen of the Australian stage, recalls
with pride the sensation created in Melb. in the early 50’s,
when, for the first time, he presented in a theatre a
drawing-room scene embellished with a real carpet 6ft.
square.
“ X.X.” : Re Spoonerisms. One of the funniest on
record is that of the actor in King Lear, who could not
hit the text in two tries : “ How sharper than a serpent’s
child it is to have a thankless tooth”—“ How sharper
than a serpent’s thanks it is to have a toothless child ”
Another, from Hamlet : “ Stick them Aplunder ! ” From
Richard 111 : “ Stand back, my lord, and let the parson
cough.” Again, Shylock : “ Shall I lay Surgery upon my
Pole?” A clerical one : “Here>beginneth the 13th chap-
ter of the Bute of Dukeronomy—l mean the Book of
Booteronomy.”
Anna Edson Taylor, the Yankee schoolmistress who
went over Niagara Falls in a barrel, had a music-hall
career in her mind’s eye. She has already had profitable
engagements to tell her experiences.
Beerbohm Tree closed the gallerv at Her Majesty’s
(Lon.) for his latest show, “ The Last of the Dandies.”
The excuse for practically excluding the gods (though he
offered them 120 back seats in the upper circle at gallery
prices) was the extreme “ daintiness ”of the new play. It
must be played so delicately that people situated near the
roof couldn’t appreciate it. Fact seems to be that the
fashionable London managers are running nowadays on
sickly comedies, for which the comparatively Virile
“gods” have no respect whatever. If they go' to the
gallery, it is only on first nights—to snort. In this case
Tree decided to shut out the snort.
Dramatist Sardou, after giving to the world a purple
pageant of masterly horrors, dodders in his old age, and
has taken to spiritualism. He proudly shows a sketch,
drawn by himself in a trance, which he' says is really the
design of Palissy, the potter, and represents the country
house of. Mozart in the planet Jupiter !
The diggers in Westralia always wait till the music
begins at a show, and then rush for seats. At one place
the orchestra started in an almost empty hall, and a
shuffling sound, as of an approaching digger rush, was
heard above the soft music. All gazed'expectantly,
and a large camel stuck his head through the
window, and gave a perfumed cough of alarm.
This apparition so astonished the trombone that he
jabbed his instrument into the 2nd cornet’s ear, and then
fell back into the drum. The loss of this noble instru-
ment so damaged the performance that even the local
sheet came out with an adverse criticism.
Nellie Farren’s son, Farren Soular, plavs hero in the
new Drury Lane drama—“ The Great Millionaire ’’—and
meets the boss villain in a motor-car race. They have
bad a balloon over the earth, a fight between divers in
the waters under the earth, and every conceivable sort of
sensation on earth for these dramas. Looks as though
the next novelty will be a flying machine episode, and
even that will not be an altogether new idea. The brown
man from Mars wings his flight back to the planet whence
Horace Parker dreamt he came.
“ Cockaigne ” : Irving is played out in London. Up to
two years ago he was ostensible proprietor of the Lyceum,
but then it transpired that he was in difficulties', and a
co. owned the theatre. This co. was drained, too, and
issued a number of preference shares, to fetch in fresh
capital. The report of the past two years’ operations has
just been issued. There have been no profits, so even
the preference-men have not got a div. Some share-
holders are even raising an outcry to turn the place into
a music-hall! However, the more likely outcome is that
the theatre will be sold, pulled down,'and replaced by
business premises. The site is intensely valuable.
“ Here is a hint to Austral vocalists to save them from
the misery of the ‘ frozen shoulder ’ in this chilly, fog-
smitten land,” writes The Bulletin’s London correspon-
dent. “ ‘ The Scarlet Mr. E.’s,’ who are paralysing
England as songster-players, dress in long, flowing
‘curtains’ of scarlet, and hide in big brigand hats and
behind black dominoes. They are the mystery of mys-
teries, forbidden to disclose their identities under heavy
penalties, and the coin tumbles at ’em. Two are of the
peerage, one of an American ‘ dollarinaire,’ and the other
two more or less celebrated as tenor and as baritone, and
they can sing and act their words. Now, why not five
bushranger-garbed Austral singists to tour the Common-
wealth in strict incognito? If they struck a ‘ slump ’in
a backblocks town—and didn’t get run in on sight by
Trooper 063—they might casually meet the gold or opal
coach and—borrow a competence. Much better than
carrying an ache-shrivelled heart on a vacuous ‘ tummy ’
in a ‘ foreign Strand.’”
The growth of a legend. Albert Whelan is now credited
by the British Australasian with having taken the
place of the principal character in “The Belle of N.Y.”
halfway through a performance (date and place not
specified) without any of the audience becoming aware of
the change. That would be a little too high a trial even
for Albert. The facts, of course, are that Oscar Girard was
taken ill on reaching Adelaide, in July, 1899, and Whelan
filled the gap, The first-night audience saw an unknown
Australian instead of the (to them) unknown American,
and naturally didn’t suspect that the stranger was other
than the Girard whose name appeared on the bill. Next
week the sick man pluckily resumed duty for two or
three performances, but finally broke down on the stage,
and died a few days later. Oscar Girard lies buried in
the West Terrace cemetery, Adelaide, but he still lives in
Whelan’s imitation of him.
Ada Colley, when last heard of, was witching them
with her abnormal top-note at the Paris Olympia ; and
Florence Esdaile, another soprano who adorned the
Rickards show of yore, is also said to be doing well in
foreign lands. Which reminds The Bulletin for the
severalth time that Melbourne isn’t repeating its former
crop of sweet girl singers. The recent decline of singing-
power in Williamson’s comic opera Co. is shown when
Florence Young lets go her voice in “ San Toy.” It is the
same voice—not quite so fresh and strong, but a little
more polished—that rang out in “ Carmen ” years ago,
when Flora Graupner and Violet Varley were among the
eo., and Marie Halton, from ’Murka, filled the name-part,
but, whereas it was only a voice then, it is pre-eminently
the voice now. The other girl vocalists are nowhere by
comparison.


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
&>
BILLS
discounted.
3XT.S.-W.
fflont deplete BJI. Co»[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
*7 A CASTLEREAGH ST., *7 4.
* SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager,
H-,
Colonial Mutual liife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,491,989.
Policies issued 85,372 —assuring £26,085,346.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,576,850.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses —eouitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
file Bank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp& Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... ... ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250 000 ... £350,000
Queensland Smelting Qompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough
"OUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
JD Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street. Melbourne.
Qeui Zealand Insurance (Jo.
FIRE and MARINE.
CAPITAL .. .. -. •• •• £1,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES .. 420,000
Largest Colonial Company.
J. A. minnett w 81 Pitt St., Sydney.
J\)€ Trustees, €*€<;GtorS,
AND
AgSOCV Conjpaijy Liipitcd,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED
CAPITAL PAID-UP
RESERVE LIABILITY
RESERVE FUND (used in Company s
business)
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 30th June, 1901
£150,000 0 0
£90,000 0 0
£150,000 0 0
£BB5B 7 3
£6,388,976 5 3
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWHAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG,' Assistant Manage!
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Koval Bank of Queensland
J LIMITED.
CAPITAL PAID-UP . .. . ■ • • • ■ 01
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS. 245,119
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 55,000
£685,306
Head Office -. BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Ass. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. of the Colonies.
Directors—Sydney : Sir W. M'Millan, Hon. A. W. Meeks.
Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq. Wellington : H.
Beauchamp, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar ; Wellington, N.Z., C. M. Montefiore.
J. J. ALLEN. General Manager for Australasia,
131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £15,000, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties,
and £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
7our per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £2,500.000
LADIES.^-
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FR BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Adi , v £bss— L.D.1., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
Shipping.
HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Tyrian, Sat., Jan. 18, 12 Noon.
Buninyong, Tues., Jan. 21, n p.m.
Peregrine, Sat., Jan. 25, 12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Buninyong, Tuesday, Jan. 21, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Buninyong, Tuesday, Jan. 21,5 p.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Leura, Saturday, Jan. 18,12 Noon.
Konoowarra, Tues., Jan. 21, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Sat., January 25, 12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Leura, Saturday, Jan. 18, 12 Noon.
Tyrian, Saturday, Jan. 25, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
WHITE STAR LINE.
(Ismay, Imrie & Co., Liverpool.
STEAM TO LONDON, CALLING at PLYMOUTH and
LIVERPOOL Via CAPETOWN,
CalliiHi at Melbourne, Adelaide and Albany.
The fine new Twin-screw Steamers of this line will leave
Sydney as under, viz. :
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to Sail on 18th JANUARY.
And will be followed at suitable intervals by the
MEDIC, AERIC, SUEVIC, and PERSIC.
The attention of the travelling public and shippers
general y is drawn to the splendid equipment of these
'Vassenger accommodation is for one class only, and
consists of two-berth and four-berth cabins and open
berths, with reading-room, smoking-room, and a rliiunt,
room occupying whole width of ship.
The dietary scale is of the most liberal character.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried. Electric lignt
throughout. , ,
For rates of freight, passage money, &c., apply to
Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS in ATTdTRAfYA _
Huddart, Parker & Co’s Cine
—TO—
MELIK) IJRN IC, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND FORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
A. JNTX3
LINE
via
San Francisco,
California.
SPLENDID NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS,
SIERRA
SONOMA
VENTURA
Over 6000 Tons each.
8000 H.P.
Length, 425 feet,
Passengers booked through to American, Canadian and
European centres at current rates.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO., ITT).
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts. SYDNEY.
time table.
THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
THE “ALT, RED” MAIL ROUTE
TO LONDON.
THE ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
OF THE
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
Under contract with the Governments of New South
Wales, Queensland, and Canada, leave Sydney every
four weeks as under, for
BRISBANE, HONOLULU, VICTORIA and VANCOUVER.
df
Connecting at Vancouver with the
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
This is the Imperial Route Home, as well as the most at-
tractive. It avoids alike the heat of the Red Sea and the
cold ol Cape Horn. The railroad journey between the
Pacific and Atlantic Oceans 1 Vancouver to Montreal)
occupies about 4 days, and is made
WITHOUT CHANGE OF CARRIAGES,
through the grandest scenery in the world—over the
Selkirk and Rocky Mountains, across the Prairies, and
along the North Shore of Lake Superior. , ,
Passengers have the choice of a number of overland
routes, enabling them to visit the principal cities of
Canada and the United States.
For Railway Maps, Guide Books, and all other informa-
tion, a PP l y i j® ( STEAM . SH |p COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents.
Bank Of New South Wales.
Head Office
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
Established 1817.
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
2,000,000 0 0
1,270,000 0 0
2,000,000 0 0
A.
Total 5,270,000 0
Directors:
Hon. Ciias. K. Mackellar, M.L.C., President.
Senator James Thomas Walker.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Hon. Henry Normand MacLaurin, M.L.C.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L C.
Auditors:
G. Milson, Esq. J. S. Harrison, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
T.ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business. ... .
The Bank also issues Circular Notes m sums of Jill) or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
TOILET
SOAP
BEST FOR THE SKIN and
COMPLEXION.
Antiseptic, Emollient, Refreshing.
Sold by Chemists, Stores, &c.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
Sore Eyes I Blight!
USED 300 YEARS.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
Neuer fails. Restores Eyelashes.
had from all chemists.
“HBW to preserve THE EYESIGHT.”
Ask your Chemist for this little book.
KT. H>. L.
(NORD-D) IUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
d
♦Twin screw.
Leaving MELBOURNE Wednesday after Sydney.
REGULAR SERVICE to SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW
GUINEA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. STETTIN, 2478 Tons,
LEAVING SYDNEY ON 20th FEBRUARY.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents.
WEBER LOIIMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
Publications.
TRIMOty
A Studv of BALDNESS and
FALLiNG HAIR, B.v Dr.
ALFRED NEALE. Posted 7d.
SKIN DISEASES
their Treatment.
Posted Is Id.
Publishers: Turner and SY UN KY m
THE BALLET GIRL
ď
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The I.ife, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send stamp for Illustrated Lists of Looks and Novelties.
Madame Panza,—-
913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Musical Instruments, &c.
Cheapest House in Australia for EDISON
PiMGMPHS »»< RECORDS
REEVES & CO.
KING WILLIAM STREET, ADELAIDE.
“BIJOU,” with 6 Records £1 17 6
EDISON “STANDARD,” with 24 Records .. 5 10 O
EDISON “ HOME,” with 30 Records.. .. 810 O
COMBINATION A 1 “ GRAND,” taking- both
Large and Small Records, with 12 Records,
6 Concert (51in.) Records, and Large Horn 10 10 O
EDISON RECORDS, English and American, 20/- perdoz.
CONCERT (sJin.) RECORDS 60/- „
Send for Cata-
logues contain-
ing 5000 Selec-
tions to choose
from. Illustra-
ted Catalogues
of Electric Fans
(complete with
Battery, £5),
Electric Bike
Lamps, Flash-
Lights,Scarf-Pin
Lights, Vapour
Bath Cabinets,
etc., Free.
Records can
be posted to any
address, postage
1/6 per dozen.
fd
Machines carefully packed and forwarded to any part of
Australasia.
Shipping.
theadelaide STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian! South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhippingab Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Allinga,
Friday, January 17.
S.S. Wollowra,
Saturday, January IS
(without transhipment).
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Adelaide, (Oapt. D. P.
I Davies), Saturday, Jan. 18.
Jiest and Cheapest Itoute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable alter the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A.U.S.N. Co. and Howard Smith Co.,
Ld. For Adelaide and W.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. Coy. Ltd.
ItOYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
Till? PO PULA it PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL POUTS-Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Norrnanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Cassent/er A eeomtnodation, A Men da nee and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO , Ltd., Agents, lo Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
D AND O. COMPANY’S
■ ■ ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
Steamer.
HIMALAYA
CHINA
♦ARCADIA .
♦INDIA
♦OCEANA .
Commander.
Sydney,
Noon
25
6898 W. L. Broun, R.N.R. . |Jan.
7912 T. S. Angus ... .. |Feb.
6663 A. C. Loggin |Feb. 19
7911 VV. D. G. Woxcester, R.N.R. March 5
6603 C. Gadd .‘. .. March 19
* Via Hobart.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B 10s to £/7
Ditto Ditto Return, £7llos to £l2l
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific, and
Messatreries Maritimes Steamers having room.
EDWARD TRELAWNY,
63 Pitt-street. Superintendent in Australia.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and POKE
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows: -
Com
Steamer
mum lei'.
%ir-
i p. ui.
Aile*
luiile,
1 |) in.
TONKIN Ibtrmmle .Ian. 20 Jan. 2S Jftn. 25
AUSTKAIJKN Verron Feb. 17 Feb. 211 Feb. 22
V. i>ki i. a 0.1 OTAT Fiaacilii . iMarcli 1" Maroli 20lMareh tl
1 I I I
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage t hrough the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS' (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
“E. AND A.” LINE.
. . TO . .
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Steamer.
Tns, Commander. .Leave Sydn y.
I* !
EASTKRN 36O0Winthrop Ellis ..January 25
AIIi.LIE ... 2500 St. John George.. February 15
AUSTRALIAN .. 300 J P. T. Helms ..March 15
The above steamers wer • specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with EVERY CON-
VENIENCE FOR TROPICAL TRAVELLING.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, Unite !
States of America and Europe at special rates in con-
junction with the Canadian-Pacific and other Steamship
Companies.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. 00. LI).
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
(H‘llujraith,U)‘Eacharn&g9.
PROP. LTD.
THE FAVORITE STEAMERS
KALGOOELIE, 4500 tons,
COOLGABDIE, 3500 tons,
SAIL FOItTN IG 111 LY between
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, and
West Australian Ports. *
Passenger Accommodation Unsurpassed. Liberal Cuisine.
MMLWRAITH, M'EACHARN AND CO.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany and Fremantle
Sydney Agents—BUßNS, PHILP & CO. Ltd.
GEIMTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address. —L.D.1., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
Now Ready.
A POLICY FOR THE
Price (id. ;
Posted, Bd.
COMMONWEALTH


A PUBLIC WARNING.
W. does not ride any but
RED BIRD BICYCLE
Whe n you see advertisements alleging that Martin rides another make of machine don’t believe that advertiser
• Martin Plugger Bill—won the last Austral on his Red Bird. Don’t you think a Red Bird on
easy terms would suit you best ?
Agents throughout Australasia. Qoold Bicycle Co., 64 King Street, Sydney.
Mr. Willy Schwiegershausen, the German
journalist who is touring round the world for a wager of
£1250, arrived in Melbourne last week on his Massey-Harris
bicycle. He has ridden a “Massey” from Fremantle
across country to Melbourne, and carries a load of 901 b
on 1 his bicycle. This is another proof that the Massey
not only runs easy, but is a reliable weight-carrier. *
A few copies of the Dunlop Racing Souvenir
are yet obtainable. This artistic- little folder contains
excellent photos, of Walker, Sutherland, Megson, Ralston,
and Wilksch. A post-card to any of the Dunlop depots
will bring a copy by return post.*
iiiiiuilililiiiii
A Great Business A Great Reputation
can only be maintained by Unquestionable Quality.
MAPPIN 8t of Lc Eldon the court silversmiths OF ENGLAND
■ . . make the Most Heavily Plated Goods in England.
ISE
A QUALITY.
TABLE SPOONS
TABLE FORKS..
DESSERT SPOONS
DESSERT FORKS
TEA SPOONS ..
17s 6d per J-dozen
17s fid per 1-dozen
14s fid per 1-dozen
14s Od per 1-dozen
7s Od per 1-do.zen.
B QUALITY.
TABLE SPOONS
; TABLE FORKS..
: dessert spoons
DESSERT FORKS
TEA SPOONS ..
10s Od per i-dozen
10s Od per £-dozen
7s 6d per |-dozen
7s 6d per i-dozen
5s Od per |-dozen
Quality with Price considered, theirs are the Cheapest Spoons and Forks made.
Every Line is still quoted at the London Catalogue Prices.
LONDON PRICES
PLAIN FLGHRES
STRICTLY CASH
p
SOLE AGENTS
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
23 Hunter stj Sydney
“test” begins Friday this week at
»W> etie6,th decided there. First’was
l 8 f’ o l' h « ; n .i? nta ' n gathered the laurels by 8 wickets
e u A? ea,n s first essay (in ’92) produced 4G9
The C ’99 b m^tnh fc the "\°«t atop by an innings and 230 runs’
II t h Stoddart’s team 382 behind at the close
fc A etl r e OS - S Ire dale contributed 140 of the 411
Wo!ti?^ US e ra ia ln their secor) d innings. Three years
later Stoddart s second combination tackled a first innings
accumuiatmnofsrS’ and suffered defeat by an inning
opposition. 8 ' "’ S 178 WaS the b <*t compilation in
* * * *
GUS - qulte unnecessarily assured its
readers that there is no arrangement for the English and
sn U ns r f« lan teal ? s t° win and lose test matches alternately
body Whn°wft tr e 4 evf 11 Inter , Rst in the final fifth. Nc>
body who looks at the records of international contests
here and in England can find the least excuse for sus
pecting any pre-arrangement, even if the sclptfc be
ignorant of the spirit of rivalry that governs every man
m both teams. But the Argus was careful to avoid dfs
cussion of the real reason why' “ apparently sensible
that gate-money is the sole object of these
i- Sen ?'ble people know that .the gate-money
nflw?K era v° nS ,n . fluence the style of the play without
F enui ! leness - Both sides want-to'win : but
and h u- r Slde - S ? n .? ,ous to make a three days’ match of it
fonriu d P P°* ln i t - the “ ana " er ' al expectation of at least a
day 8 t aklngs - ®°> when the crowd tieheld the rival
fir^f a H lng i up for ” the fall of 25 wickets on the
damp first day by sconng only 450 runs for the loss
of only 10 wickets on the next two days they naturafiv
suspect that batsmen are carefully batting' for time
IrfraL” °” e c ln Inte st te and International matches",
is A:t money 18 tlme * and both 0f them are cash, and cash
Barnes is a new performer in first-class
™f e^ he newspapers speak of him as though he were a
co't with a long career before him. The big manVfigure
suggests that he is already a little past his prime for fast
bowling purposes. Barnes labors under a considerable
b'Y, de " 0 solid flesh. Probably he could bowl a flster
ball with less effort a couple of years ago.
* * * «
The success of the only new blood
the Old Brigade consented to infuse into the Austra-
thp wr among the batsmen, should be followed up 1 in
Howell and Jones both failed to get a
wicket in the recent test-match when called upon If
M h M eam ® ver do strike their vaunted P batting
? 'y°. n t »ret them out by himself. And if
they aren t a batting team, the next test-matches need
not be considered seriously. neea
* • * .
rnp> ?” : , Surel y ’tis time Jones was dropped
fne^ 1 pi n p t von a i t h ona i ma s C £v L He hasn’t been dangerous
(ne\ er even threatened it) once in tests so far done with
and can t bat up to front-rank club form. M'Leod, Laver’
P finU 6 o f nd co - would supply one whose inclusion would be
morß warrantable. Seeing Jones has dropped
so much as a bowler, where do his claims come in v In
23 innings in test matches his bat has only produced an
average ofs| runs, thus 11 not out, 1,4, 4,4, 3,3, 0,
3,7, 8, 20, 1, 4,17, 5,2, 0,0, 5,2, 14, and 5.
v stock was dropping with a
beavy j had l n tbe unthinking public mind until he
wpnjbftA that 182 for N.S.W. against S.A. Some scribes
from that he should have stood down
from the continent s XI. for Laver or McLeod, completely
lnm° rlng bbe k he proved himself always good for
some runs, and was still the same superb “ field.” Svdnev
Referbe cricket scribe almost alone in his opinion of the
little top-notcher, wrote last week : “ I saw S E G shane
if a hJ fafll f ? r tlie i Waverley club, and I shall be surprised
m f e v, fai L S * to e , xblblfc sonie similar form in the bigger
the Sam b we°ek Sid Thisview was ere
*•
■Apropos. Iredale’s apparent return of form.
nrinSjf d 2 ne f bette £ gainst English combinations. His
principal efforts embrace 140,108, 89, 84, 81, 68, 36 (not
nrodiipp’rl’RfW 3 °f T wenty-three innings (once not out)
by comparison. 8 W ° rk “ tBStS tops Sid ‘ Gr^°^’B
* * » *
, v .T^ e , battin g' of Maclaren’s people at Stawell
(Vic.) last week suggested that they will try their luck
Thtw s?n,« a a'y a ur ln ” ln & s > anyhow, in the Adelaide test.
They slogged brilliantly at Stawell—result, 790 runs for
a TIi WICke T °” e , whole day and 70 minutes. If they
dun£q»jr d f ately reckless policy and “chance the
ducks which is no doubt their best policy—when the
makhn f a " Elev ? n ar . e £ oin S f °r them, they ought to
make a fair number of runs. Even Jessop, handicapped
almost^ ° f lnCh - 6S and cross ' bat method, seems
matvff Jnu 3 tp scor ® m a test as in an up-country
° ahey 1S anotb ? r risky bat who makes about
Qnnifp and n many ru , ns Wlthln a £ lven period as little
Quaife, and he can always be expected to keep up his
for Sfl B fet^ a . bhe . tinle that Quaife spends plaving
or safety. M Gahey in place of Quaife should strengthen
Maclaren’s next test-team if the ground is very hard or
very soft, but on a dull, true wicket-a very remote
■item blhty—tbe httle P ro - would be-the more valuable
* * * *
Austroii?n ar ! ing n S fc yefc cdrfcain that the next
team to England will include him as a
member. For some months his wife-has been ill, and he
Tow e u Urn , 1° Tasmama a t any timei In all probability
Joe will not be the fourth test in Sydney. .
Cornstalks v. Wheat State proved easy
for the former, whose 472 in the first innings was much
beyond opposmg gjde-g ability. s.A. accumulated 262
»nd’io haVlng follow on > losfc b.V an innings
and 19 runs. Break-up of S.A. was mainly brono-ht
about by Noble and Howell’s fine bowling, with the wind
helping some. Howell excelled himself.' His deliveries
?erod whrTf menacinglv, and the ball that scat-
KfSthfSSh the "“.>»<“.*■ 'iTO-'KI. nipping
* * - -
. 5.°. b ’ e is suffering from a strained leg, and
aSt 8T St ?" d ou . t of tbe . N - S - W - team for the match
S - A - Hhe *s not in form for the next test the
loss may be serious for Australia.
* • • » ,
Dispute as to the inclusion of Joe Darling in
the team to represent S.A. against N.S.W. was short-
Wh«'f N ; S - W - was willing to allow him to play with the
Wheatstaters, but S.A. very properly wouldn’t have it
years'" 11 ” 8 ' has been a resident of Tasmania for a couple of
•*'' . . .
Walter Giffen comes back into the S.A team
hff laS p N ' S ' W ' Jen years ago, he was nearly as "good a
« Lord S°heffi’em’« f y IA,bW 1 A, bW0 I ° f the three test-matches
XI °of d l S B9 f 6 n A l B0 ’ be " as in the Australian
,• . of . ° . Latterly, he has been running a private
gold-mine in the hills behind Adelaide, and has'almost
dropped out of first class cricket. He is remarkabl "ike
what George was before the latter went grev
* » * ° J '- t
a Saturday last saw Sydney first-grade local
cricket resumed after three weeks’ spell Absence of
inter-State players in Adelaide weakened some clubs
North Sydney was without Clarke, Duff, Hopkins and
* re ,?‘w e ih ßedfeyn 1 ' vaS sboi 't of Poidevin ; Kellv Trumper
and Noble were absentees from Paddington ; Howell from
G ®S p al Cumberland ; and M‘Beth from Sydney. Sydney
and Central Cumberland, at Parramatta, provided sensa-
tional play. Aboriginal Marsh and Boyce got all latter’s
wickets for 77. Marsh bagged 7 for 27. Former only
topped opposing eleven’s figures by four, Pye getting 6
for 30. Leichhardt-Balrnain against Burwood compiled
300, and play finished for the day with six Burwood men
out for 29. Match there looks L.-B.’s sure. Paddington
gathered 242 for Glebe to face ; and North Sydney, play-
ing Redfern, notched 451 for eight wickets, towards
which W. S. Duff (brother of the hero of last test-match)
brought 115. Bye match (Waverley v. Sydney Cricket
Ground Trustees’ combination) saw former get 230, and
latter 27 without losing a bat. Crack Waverley wicket-
ar k° r ) shaped remarkably well in this and scored
* * » •
‘‘ Cover-Point ”; Sydney Electric Telegraph
Club apparently owns two high grade bats. Playing
against Western Suburbs t’other day for “Mitchell”
Shield, E.T.C. total was 335 without/ a wicket having
tallen. Hinchy- secured • 207 and Gleeson 128—both not
out. In a previdus match the same pair compiled 220
without being separated : Hinchy gpt 122 and Gleeson
yo. llius two consecutive innings have seen these two
bats gather 555 runs without either losing his wicket.
Surely this is a record ?
* • * •
In North Sydney-Redfern match (Saturday),
for former. North Sydney Church of England Grammar
School boys, Black and Hickson, filled two of the vacan-
cies left by inter-State men away from home, and, shaping
splendidly, made 57 and 98 respectively. This is the
second time in two matches that Hickson has contributed
nineties to North Sydney’s total. Jim Punch was brought
up from the second grade, where his scoring has been
heavy this season, and made 67 not out.
* * » *
Monday s cable announced the death of world-
famous cricketer Briggs at Cheadle Asylum (England).
Johnny came with six ’Ome teams that visited Australia,
and, besides being a first-rate cricketer, was also the
comedian of them all. The world hasn’t seen his superior
as a left-hand-bowler. During the third test-match of
the last Australian Eleven’s visit ’Ome- he took 3 for 53
onriu ! a -j’ but didn’t bat, owing to becoming
suddenly ill and was sent to Cheadle Asylum. There
tO , 5 uU Jhrough all' right, and upon
Comrng out bowled and batted next year almost as
well as ever, as evidence the fact that he bagged all
Worcestershire s wickets, in one match at Old Trafford,
tor 55 runs. Briggs and Peel worked well together-the
former being very deadly on a bad wicket This pair
were mainly responsible for that sensational licking of
the Australians in December, ’94, by 10 runs. The dead
man s three best feats in tests were : 12 wickets for 136 at
w e ia» de V A P rcb 92 , ; 11 for 74 at Lords, J uly ’B6 ; and 10
for 148 at the Oval, August ’93. Briggs and Hunter’s
record of 98 for the tenth wicket stood for 17 years, and
was only knocked out in the last test by Duff and
Armstrong, who hit up 120.
**» - ,
Though an absolutely green ’un, money went on
Suivre at Moorefield on Saturday in heaps, and sent her
out favorite at evens in a field of 11 for the Two-vear-old
Handicap. Suivre battled out the finish with Fighting
Charlie, and landed the money in great stvle. She’s an
aristocrat to look at—lengthy, stout, and well-set—and is
by Grafton from Sequel, a mare by Chester from The
Alpaca which the late Hon. James White raced for a brief
period, and, through her, secured V.A.T.C. Maiden Plate
when she was a 3-year-old. With her great galloping
accident^ 61 " 6 are . blf \ P ossibilities ahead for Suivre, P bar
* * * «
Three-year-old gelding Chassepot, who got
away with the Moorefield Handicap, Saturday, evidenced
Qualities that surprised many,, including his
Ti v ! 1< r r - A well-shaped nag, worth watching. Mr H
hv I r h o°M^ bred b ™— b .YMartini-Henry from Miss Kaiparaj
by Goldsbrough from Maritana, by New Warrior from
Mermaid, by Fisherman from Sweetheart (imp.).
a „^ P ?m^ nt , ly u ßandwick traill er Monaghan’s long
pell of ill-luck has changed. His Rejoice repeated her
form of previous week at Canterbury bv romping home
with Moorefield Welter last Satui-day in a manner
P ° Wer In reserve: Humping lOst. was a
fen, Ioi f t pher ; Rejoice is in S.T.C. Chal-
on fc nf e fw th WIII 110 w have a 71b. penalty
much P f that ’ whlch shouldn ’ti and won’t, affect her
* * * •
The trouble between S. A. Jockey Club and local
NVe nh W rf S Se^ U M d U V a day or two > but to ° fate to save •
the abandoned New Years meeting. A curious mystery
sIPPhw at f°, U K t the t . erms of settlement, but it is iinder-
stood that ,f the coming elections return a good majority
of totahsator supporters, two extra days’ racing, at any
rate, will be allowed to suburban clubs. And the owners
offered beforehand to accept that very compromise'
Meanwhile, the S.A.J.C. holds its Accession Day' meeting
on January 27, instead of in June. s
* * * *
Replying to a religious deputation. Postmaster
Drake positively refused to stop “ Tattersall” letters
be P :; o “‘ lse ,- d “ brin £ the matter before the
Cabinet , and the Cabinet has already made up its mind.
* * * *
Meibourne middle-weight bruisers, Jack Willis
and Bob t raser, served out stoush to each other in huge
doses at Sydney Golden Gate A. 0. Saturday night, and"a
big crowd egged them on to more of it. Same two met
weeks ago, when Willis won, but then FraXVwant of
ThW Urg6d 1,1 extenuation of his going under.
This time there was no room for that excuse. After
wbreVof a ;P articularl - V ’ K°? d showing and having none the
Up to , tb6 end °f round four, Fraser drifted
H )7 , be bm P aad weary stage fast, and, being banned
and thumpe'l about like a-punching bag throughout the
fifth, sixth and seventh times of getting together the
dbdfion' aS thl '° Wn Up in his C 0l ’ n er, and Willis got the
Australian top-notch “fodder,” Tim Hegartv
recentiy went under to lately-resurrected Kid I.avigne
(whilom lightweight premier of- the world), at Oakland
- i’ P ec -' 12 - J* was a hard, fast fight. Hegartv
s Hashed and punished most for three rounds, but the
tv,nfto° d !t; then the Austral grew tired, and in the
!°“r, tb o - tern f left , openings through whieh I.avigne even-
tually spread-eagled him. Explanation is that Hegartv
always a stand-off fighter, mixed over-much in hfs
anxiety to make a good impression- by winning quick and
convincingly, so as to qualify for “terrible” Terry
M Governs conqueror, “young Corbett.” Tim was
highly excited, and often fought widely when following
up an advantage. Had he kept away and jabbed at long
ranges he would probably have won. Another meeting
was talked of afterwards, but it’s any odds Lavigne will
fend it until Hegarty sickens and comes home. They’ve
little use for whipped men in Yankeedom, unless they’re
we'll up among the heavies. ‘
* • * *
Decadence of bike-racing as a public attraction
was further evidenced at N.S.W. Cyclists’ Union meet on
Society’s ground on Saturday, when only a
fair attendance materialised —enormous crowds were the
rule once. One and five mile supremacies of the con-
tinent were the star items. The mile was hot all the
hay, and hotter at the finish, when M.L. representative
D. M. Rodger won by inches only from the Sydney cham-
pion, VV. Turnbull. Amateur cycling in the mother State
hasn t known such a close thing for years. Turnbull
came too late, otherwise placings might have-been t’other
way about. Five-miles premiership was adjudged “ good
goods for Rodger, hut the result was a huge surprise,
tor N.S.W. man D. Ellis won by three lengths from
fellow Stqfe__ repres ■:! atives Turnbull and Hopkins, as
named. Ellis never gathered in a top-notch title before,
and had n t previously shown form-that would suggest the
likelihood of his doing so. Lap-prizes offered made the
pace fast throughout, hence, probably,"Ellis’s success, for
a high-tension struggle has always, been to his liking.
Rodger came home fifth.
* * * •
Yankee cyclists Burris and B.arnett, and Irish
peddler R. J. Burdin (an amateur) are in Melb. just now.
Burns has been in the game two seasons—one as a.n
amateur and t’other as a pro. Pacific Slope supremacy
came to him while he moved among the lily-while sectidh.
During the second season he went for coin, but cranked
up after—with others—annexing a team race. Big
prizes and frequency of opportunities for getting
money at wheeling lured the two Yankees this
way. Harriett says he is out here oh a health-seeking
mission only. Skinner and M’Coinbe, who came from the
same place in the boom days of pedestrianism, were at
Botany on a similar lay, but one of them managed to
spoop a big Sir Joseph Banks handicap while they stayed.
-Barnett has moved his machine along pretty swiftly, for
hje competed with such cracks as Tom Cooper and Walter
Sanger m’94 and’96. Burgin proposes'haviiig a cut for
all the season’s big- “ pots,” and expects to get away with
, a cargo of butter-dishes, cruets, and such like. i.
*■** * . i
Vic. country sports promoters and committees
are just as gentle in their dealings with the bikemen as
the L. V. W. The committee of some recent rural Hibernian
sports suspended payment of most of the prizes, pending
investigation. One rider ealmlv ran off the track in the
last lap of a race rather than finish first; he explained
that he didn’t want to spoil another man’s “ fine record.”
The committee quietly told him not to be quite so bare-
faced in future, and let it go at that. -
* * * m
Evergreen wrestler Harry Dunn had no diffi-
culty in outing R. J. Scott for £25 and the “world's
championship ”at Dunedin (M.L.) lately. Dunn won the
Cumberland, American side-hold, and Cornish styles,
beott scoring in the catch-as-cateh-can only. At the
Caledonian championships subsequently the society hung
up a £2O purse for the pair, and on this occasion Scott
downed his conqueror. It was pretty evident, however,
that Dunn was off-color.
•*■■■* *■ *
The Bundaberg ( Q.) runner, D. Smith, who
Maoriland tp meet the flying M’Lachlan over
1000yds. course, beat him comfortably by five yards in
sec - The stake was £6O. Race was got off at
the Caledonian championship gathering at Oamaru,
whe,re M Lachlan notched the 200yds and 440yds. events,
far h*’ a^er I-ssec.—his fastest time so
* • * »
_ aston ishing performance was put up by
Kerr (Taranaki, M.L.), at Dunedin Caledonian sports,
cutting out the mile walk in 6m. 11 2-ssecs.—beating the
world s record by 11 l-ssecs. Later he accounted for two
mnes in 13m. 29 4-ssecs. Time is not actively disputed ;
out, all the same, Kerr is to be given another opportunity
of formally smashing the record under conditions that
will ensure no mistake being made about it.
* * * *
Last Saturday, Sydney’s phenomenal - speed
swimmer, Lane, capped all his own previous feats by
trudging” over 100yds., at Bondi, in 1. 0 2-ssec.—only
l-ssee. slower than the world’s fastest, accomplished by
Ome marvel Derbyshire. Subsequently, same day, same '
man threw another 100 behind in lm'in. 1 4-ssec. Lane
was supposed to have given up the, game, but ’tis pos-
sible, after this, that he’ll come in the furlong champion-
ship, and give it a great shaking.
*♦’ * *
N.S W. 300yds. swimming supremacy, atßondi>
Saturday, was exciting from “ go ’’—particularly near the
S!P s , e '^ a * ;e ’ s three best over the distance—Read, «
Dick Cavill, and Craig—started.- Cavill watched Craig
throughout, suspecting most trouble from him. Read
led .after the . first 50yds. Entering the last 50, Read
rounded 7yds. to the g*ood ; then Cavill saw his mistake,
and spurted in a hair-raising l fashion—going through the
piaryellously f isfc—but the sfart was too biff, and -
he touched just half-a-yard to the bad, with excitement
% m , < ?"?; at breaking tension. Read’s time
(3.44) is 4sec. slower, than Dick Cavill’s world’s “ best,"
set up in Feb. last. This writer’s view is that Dick lacks
proper training, and would come on a heap were he half
as 'veil looked after a's Read. Craig finished third, 3vds.
from the second man.
• » * *
Brothers-of sculling-champ. Towns did well at
recent Newcastle regatta. Charlie closed on the all-
comers race, whilst Jack annexed that for amateurs.
Iwo others figured in the youths’ double-sculls, but un-
successfully. Sons of .the old coal city premier-—R.
liickey—were also iir evidence, and demonstrated that
tor light men they are awriy above the average.
Sheeting it Home.
f OR n , earl y two years the people of N.S.W. have
been harassed by the spectre of the mismanage-
ment of the State Hospital at Little Bay. Four
ln m Uiries have been held :
Ihe first,-by accountant Brodie, resulted in that
gentleman recommending that in view of the
constant complaints about the provisions the
attention of the "Public Service Tender Board be
drawn to the matter.; - After the second and third
inquiries, the Public Service Board published
nuge masses of evidence as to the • particular
atrociousness of the food supply, and practically
endorsed them, and said straight out that the
contractor did as he hked, and that the evidence
pointed, to a partisanship for the contractor on the
part ..of., the chief storekeeper, Willman. Then
came an inquiry by a select Parliamentary Com-
mittee under the chairmanship of Arthur Griffiths,
Mr. Arthur Kidman, the contractor, whose
name was mentioned in the reports and
evidencepf the three previous inquiries as a per-
son generafiy understood to have supplied food
untit fo r human consumption to the Coast
tiospital, and as being in collusion with the store-
keeper, Willman, to provide the patients with
bad .food, and swindle the State for the
purpose - of profit-, came all the way from
Jtngland to , clear the matter up and wipe
the dirt from his obliterated reputation. He
had - been present at the second inquiry (the
first held by the P.S.B.), with sundry witnesses,
to make charges against the hospital staff. He
and his witnesses had received subpoenas to
attend and the inquiry was held in a most
unsatisfactory way. There seems to have been no
understanding on the part of Kidman that he was
on trial for supplying bad provisions; and the
Board explains this by saying that as . Mr.
Bid man was not a public servant it could not
try him. Which is pure bosh.. Kidman was
a Government contractor and was -liable to fines
censures, and the cancellation of his contract’
just as any other public servant is liable to
censure, fine, or the cancellation of his contract to
wind red-tape for £3 per week.
_At the third inquiry (the second by the P.Q.B.)
Bidman was not represented, being absent in
-Lionelon, and the Board’s condemnation of his pro-
visions was sweeping. When his contract had
expired by effluxion of time it was not renewed,
and, after the third inquiry, he was disqualified
from being a Govt, contractor again.
, inquir - v ky fc he Parliamentary committee,
■ r * Kidman, returned from London, was repre-
sented by counsel, and called people from whom he
purchased to prove he bought good provisions at a
. al £ price—-1he market price for large quantities,
m tact. these witnesses swore emphatically that
Kidman did not buy at cut rates, and that all
goods he purchased from them were of the Lest
quality available. A large amount .of evi-
dence given at former inquiries seems to have
been -contradicted, and the Storekeeper- and
Medical Superintendent of the day swore posi-
tiveiy that no bad provisions reached the patients,
and that everything that was bad was always
blocked on delivery. This was affirmed and
le-alrirmed, and then all the rejected goods were
£6200 t0 ° nIy equa * £73 worth in a contract of
On the other hand, the Parliamentary Com-
™lttee P ubhshea a letter from the Matron to
the Medical Superintendent, complaining of
the quality of the fish served to patients in
wards 11, 12, and 14 ; which proves that if no bad
provisions were accepted, there were some which
went baa afterwards and were complained about.
Ihe Committee discovered some astounding
tacts. As long as the contract specified frozen fish
things went fairly well. Then it was altered to
fresh fish Tn summer time all fresh fish is
kept on ice, but not refrigerated, and is liable to
go putrid in an hour or so after being taken off ice
Ihe contract specified, for use of the patients,
dairy butter and fresh eggs ” —trade terms for
second-class goods. The first class are designated
factory butter” and “new-laid eggs” Coll-
ator „. wrote a & ain a nd again to the
Chief Medical Officer, Dr. Ashburton Thompson
pennting out that the hospital had contracted for
inferior butter and eggs used only in cooking and
pastry-makmg and never sold for table use. But
the Chief Medical Officer apparently took no
notice. ........
S®! dazed with the amazing ignorance of the Chief
Medical Officer’s department, and bewildered,
perhaps, by the torrent of evidence and the end-
less deluge of reports, the Parliamentary Com-
mittee got off a report that was a mass of contra-
dictions. *
First, it declared that Glynn, the assistant store-
keeper, who raised the row, had “ proved himself
an energetic, conscientious and painstaking store-
keeper.” It decided he was a failure as a clerk,
and went on to remark that owing to overwork he
couldn’t possibly have been a good one, and that
as he wasn’t employed as a clerk there was no
reason why he should have been a book-keeper;
and that he was sacked for not being what he was
not engaged to be.
With regard to the contractor, the Committee
reported that “although Mr. Kidman and his
employees have sworn that the goods supplied to
the Hospital were always of the best quality
there is evidence to prove that at times the
supplies were very bad, and Mr. Glynn acted
wisely in rejecting the same. The evidence, how-
ever, shows that but a small proportion of the
total supplies were rejected.” (£73 worth in a
contract of £6200 and Mr. Kidman onlv admits
to £30, in all.) Also, “ that in view of the
small proportion of rejected supplies, and taking
all the circumstances into consideration, the dis-
qualification of Mr. Kidman as a Government con-
tractor, ought now to be removed.” It also stated
that there was no evidence of any partisanship' or
collusion between Willman and Kidman, and in
this fashion exonerated the contractor.
This paper has published several articles on
the matter, and in a recent issue remarked that
the quantity of supplies rejected did not matter,
it was the quantity that should-have been rejected
that worried it. At the time those -remarks were
made the full evidence was not available, and
The Bulletin was not aware that the second
grade butter and eggs—the inferior goods about
which most of the trouble arose—were actually
contracted for, and that the contractor had re-
peatedly drawn the Chief Medical Officer’s atten-
tion to this startling fact without effect.-
In the face of this astounding discovery, The
Bulletin can only express amazement that the
supply was not much worse than it was. Only
one thing now remains to be done. The report of
the Parliamentary Committee renders it necessary,
ffi UStlC6 i to , P r - As hburton Thompson,
£hat that officer should have an opportunity to
h - 1S r r ® as ° ns for allowing contracts to be
made for inferior butter and eggs for the sick and
<jlying patients of the Coast Hospital.


DIAMOND RINGS ,
in -
We are still selling our 18ct. English HalFMarkdd
Qem Rings at FREETRADE PRICES.
Diamond. J-Hoop Engagement Rings from £3 IOS to £3O
Diamond and Sapphire Engagement Rings from £2 2S TO £2O
Diamond and Ruby Engagement Rings from £3 3S TO £2O
Diamond.and Opal Engagement Rings from £2i 7S 6d TO £lO
Diamond and Emerald Engagement Rings from £5 TO £35
5-Stone Opal Engagement Rings from 21S
Diamond and Emerald
Engagement Ring, set
in 18ct. Gola,
£35.
THE MODERfr ART JEWELLERY CO.
187 PITT-ST., SYDNEY
(Next Shadier’s Ca/S).
The Best Road Wheel
is the Bicycle that has proved by actual work that
it is reliable and easy running. ... ... -
MasscvIttamsISteyc^
3
!■ daily ridden In every part of Australasia. Call and see our New Models, and get a Catalogue.
WESTRALIAN BRANCHES at PERTH and KALGOORUE.
DEPOTS: Sydney, Melbourne. Adelaide, Brisbane, Wellington.
{Agents in every
Town ...
t
PIKE BEOS.
Brisbane. Townsville. London.
.. . RENOWNED SPECIALITIES .. .
SUPERIOR READY TO \WEAR
INDIAN TROPICAL CLOTHING.
Exceptionally well cut and highly tailor-finished.
Made to our Special Order and Measurements in India.
FINEST ASSAM SILK
COAT and TROUSERS -
COATS—Single, D.-8., and Norfolk shapes.
42/-
INDIAN TWILL.FLAX 1 - /A
COAT and TROUSERS - | ff / O
GOATS—Single, D.-8., Norfolk and Patrol shapes.
A Perfect Fit ensured by customers sending Height, Chest, Waist and Inside
Leg Measurements.
tSB" Write for New Illustrated Catalogue (Commonwealth issue) and Samples.
y
An Ever-
Increasing
Reputation
The name of
Cfte n. 5.01. TresH food $ Tcc Co. Ltd.
is a household word throughout the State. For
over Forty years it has stood as a . . .
Synonym of Excellence and Purity. „
PASTEURISED MILK ©
“GOLDEN STAR”BUTTER
CLEAR CRYSTAL ICE.
FISH, GAME & POULTRY
CAKES, PASTRY, etc.
Deliveries prompt and regular in all
parts of City and Suburbs. Parcels
packed for the Country.
Head Office and Works:
Harbour Street « * SYDNEY
riSaWA
377 Geoirge-St., Sydney.
* ; i-■
(DIRECT IMPORTERS—
S«WiQg Macbjpes, Bityclg Sopdrigs,
LetUr-Filioi'Cabiij^tS.
1 I ——
PJtICIJ-LIST OF MACHINES:
WILLCOX & GIBBS, '
NEW AUTOMATIC
Hand Machines' ..SI 6'
and £7 10a.
No. 1 Treadle ..80
No. 2 Treadle and
Drawer ... ~V 8. 5
0 No. 3 Drawer and
.Cover (as print).. £9 9
0 No. 3J Cover, 3
Drawers.and Flap 10 10
0 And upwards to .. 18 18
0
0
0
NEW VICTORIA,
Silent, J-ight-Running; Lockstitch.
:Hand Machine and Coyer.. .. ... £3 IQ
No. 32 Cover, Drawer and Treadle .. 4 5
No. Hi Covef, 3'Dr'awers and ‘Drop-leaf 5 0
- No. 35 Cover, 5 Drawers and Drop-leaf 515
0
0
0
0
NO TIME PAYMENT.
All above Prices
are- on a » . .
Why pay Exorbitant Prices wheri you can Buy for Cash ?
SPOT CASH BASIS.
Syd. Daily Telegraph, which has already
eaten.the leek over many momentous questions,
in one portionof its issue of Friday last says :
The Prime Minister’s reception at the Town Hall, White*'
in a sense cordial, was anything but enthusiastic, though
both Mr. Barton and - Mr.' William'Lyne, after ascending
the platform, most palpably waited - for an outburst,of
cheering which never came. ;
And another portion of . the same paper of the
same date says: . J. . ....
Mr. Barton, who rose to speak at 20 minutes past 8,
was received with loud and prolonged cheers.
Also, the report intersperses every paragraph in
the whole speech with cheers. So Sapphira’s hus-
band bowls himself out first ball, and the score
reads : Ananias, 0.
Premier Seddon, of Maoriland, finds him-
self .in the unsatisfactory position of having his
cheque returned on high moral grounds by Stead,
of the Review of Reviews, whom he has so
repeatedly denounced as a traitor to the empire.
Seddon persuaded Maoriland to vote £2GO for the
purchase of 10,000 copies of the Australian
edition of the Review of Reviews because it con-
tained a eulogistic article on Maoriland—and on
Seddon. He assured Parliament that the dread-
ful disloyalist, Stead, had nothing to do with the
Australian edition, and the money wouldn’t go
into his polluted hands. Stead now sends back
the £2©o on the ground that he is chief pro :
prietor of the Australian Review of Reviews and
can’t accept money which Parliament was induced'
to vote because it was told the thing that wasn’t
so. When a pro-Gore gets his cheque returned on
a point of conscience by a pro-Boer, what is a
pro-Gore to say 1
ijt 'appears to be exceedingly fortunate
that Premier Barton was only asked for 1000
new cohentingenters instead of the much , larger
number that he professed to want to send.
Even at ss. a day and rations, the 1000 are
being dragged together with some apparent
difficulty. Last Saturday a Sydney morning
paper announced that the attempt to make up
N S.W.’s contribution of 363 then out of returned
soldiers lmd failed, that “although many men
are:offering at the barracks, comparatively few
'follbw it tip by reporting at the camp when
requested to do so,” and that nieu of the Perma-
nent Forces were being taken on, apparently by
reason of the scarcity of outside volunteers. And
an evening paper stated, on the s ime day, that
the volunteers were almost all men who weren’t
earning ss. a day here, and who were improving
their position by going, instead of “ making sacri-
fices for the Empire.”
The ordinary “Melbourne Directory,” published
by Sands and M‘Dougal, lias a new feature this year in
the addition of a Country Directory, which includes 63 of
the principal towns on the railway lines. This new portion
is divided into two parts, viz., the street directory for
each town and the trade and professional directory for
all the country towns —the various trades and professions
appearing under their respective headings. Also, maps
of Ballarat and Bendigo, corrected to date, are given.
The Melbourne-suburban portion has been very consider-
ably extended, and now covers a radius of 15 miles from
theG.P.O., extending from Mordialloc in the south to
Epping and Eltham in the north, and from Ringwood in
the east to Laverton and Deer Park in the west: As
usual, the Directory contains complete information re
Vic. Council and Assembly ; and it is a-historical issue,
insofar that it gives the names of the members of the first
Federal Parliament.
ft
m
i,
# For
Comfort
l
Speed and
Reliability
Roadster Tyres guaranteed for 12
months.
Q
HiW
\
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS /
fd
are only genuine
when the Coyer and Tube are embossed with
this ( t i • • ■ > pr*
ft
Trade Mark.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Australasia, Limited,
150 CLARENCE BT., SYDNEY. And at Melbourne, Adelaide, Periby Brisbane, and Christoliurcb, N.Z,
Tho Outbreak of M'Millan.
William M'Millan, a little man with a bauble
on his chest, who represents in Australia a
firm of very wealthy absentees, addressed Sydney
last Monday night on the Federal tariff. He djd
it strictly from the rich absentee firm’s point of
view. He spoke of his own class *of foreign
hucksters and pedlars as “the great commercial
interests ” of the country, and alluded haughtily
to Australian manufacturers who spend their pro-
fits in Australia as “monopolists.” And he
appealed in almost every line to the meanest and
most degradedx parish prejudice by denouncing
everything to which he objected as “ Victorian
in a way that implied that to be an Australian from*
that part of Australia —the part that stood most
firmly by the cause of Australian union—was so
utterly degrading that the hired agent for the
rich absentee had only to mention the word and a
cloud of reprobation naturally followed. In his
facts M'Millan was loose, while his logic would
have'disgraced a small boy in the fourth class.
Some specimens:
_Ne,w South, Wales, outside of. the matter of stimulants
and narcotics, enjoyed absolute freetrade. (Herald
report.)
This is absolutely untrue, to begin with. When
VI ‘Mi 11 an was Treasurer, N.S.W. heavily pro-
tected beer, some kinds of fruit, bacon, biscuits,
•candles, many kinds of wood work, cement,,
cheese, cigars, cigarettes, confectionery, many kinds
of “ soft drinks,” cornflour and other farinaceous
foods, currants, fish, galvanised-iron goods of all
kinds, hams, tongues, jams, jellies, red and white
lead, preserved milk, sugar, molasses, treacle,
tobacco, wire netting, paints, posts and rails,
raisins, sago, tapioca, salt', many wire manufac-
tures, wine, Freetradenewspapersand sundries. In
fact, M‘Millan preached Freetrade, and protected
nearly everything that didn’t interfere with the
importing business of the rich absentees he repre-
sented. Either he did this to wilfully,, damage
Australia; or he did it because he ,didn t
believe in his alleged Freetrade theories, and let
up on them when it could be done without damage
to the imported softgoods business ; or he was a
weak bit of driftwood going- with the tide, and of
no account. Right up to the day the Tederal
tariff came along N.S.W. was still protecting a
number of the things above enumerated ; it never
had “ absolute FrectradG outside of stimulants
and narcotics,” and if M'Mijlan doesn’t know that
he is about the most ignorant man in Australia.
Again:
- We were told that the great glory of a Protectionist
country is that she can supply all her own wants, Ana
export her surplus to the rest of the world. In 1900 \ ic-
.toria exported £17,400,000 of merchandise or products.
In the same year New South Wales exported £28,000,0 0.
(Applaiise:) That is a comparison between Freetrade and
Protection. (Applause.) -(Herald report).
Truly, that is a comparison between Freetrade
and Protection. By M‘Millan s figures, it seems
I that Victoria can use many millions worth more
I of its raw materials in its own factories (thus
I finding work for its own artisan population),
while N.S.W. can only shunt these raw products
on board a ship (thus finding work for a mere
handful of clerks and wharf-laborers), in order
that they may "be sent away to pay for the
manufactured goods supplied by M‘Millans
people in England. That is one way of looking
at it. The other way is that ti e Protectionist
State, with only a quarter of N.S. W.’s area on
•which to grow wool, wheat, butter, &c., manages
to export two-thirds N.S.W.’s amount. At that
rate, the, Protectionist State produces 2i times as
'much; acre for acrer 'as the partially Freetrade
one. Either way .the comparison is disastrous for
3i(l‘Millan. Further :
| Then they have given help’ to another class of people—l
suppose the butter producers and millers —by putting a
duty on biscuits. And what do you think was the whole
revenue which, upon their own statement, the Federal
Government expected to get from biscuits ? It was £92
from the whole of Australia. (Laughter.) Then we come
to another interesting thing, and that is eggs. At some
remote period when party strife was in existence, we may
have imported into the country from China a few eggs,
but 'the Federal Government had put a tax upon the
whole of the eggs coming into the whole of Australia, and
expected to get from it a revenue of £650. (Laughter.)
the Government would not even allow us to take
the fish along our coast without a tax, They put a tax
upon our oysters, and from that they expected to
get £l2O from New South Wales, and £270 from all
Australia. But that, of course, got a few more votes
from the mea who carried on the oyster, business.
Then •we come to hay and chaff. Did any individual,
no matter how ignorant he may be, ever hear of hay
coming into this country ? Of course some may have
come across the border. Then we come to the question
of onions. I believe that a few onions come from San
Francisco, but so little do they expect from this tax—
though it was necessary to tell the farmers that there
was a duty on onions--that they had placed opposite
that tax—nothing. (Laughter.) Then there is the item
of straw. Who ever heard of straw coming into Aus-
tralia?- (Herald report .)
And who would think for a moment that this same
brazen importer, when he was Treasurer in an
allegedly Freetrade Government, in an allegedly
Freetrade State, with a big allegedly Freetrade
majority behind him, had himself levied a protec-
tive duty on butter and biscuits, and on fish ? And
instead of Chinese eggs coming into N.S. W. “at
some remote period ” they were coming in up to
the moment the Federal tariff went on, and in
larger quantities than ever before. And N.S.W.,
even in its last year under the Reid tariff, was
importing hay from across the sea, though so
hopelessly .ignorant a person as M'Millan couldn’t
be expected to be aware of it. Also it was im-
porting straw from oversea. Likewise it imported
onions in considerable quantities, not only from
America, but also from Japan, Maoriland —even
some from the Kanaka islands. Another sample :
There was one wretched salt manufactory in Adelaide—
(all Australian industries are “wretched” in the
view of the bounding importer)—
and for the sake of that manufactory 4,000,000 people
were to be taxed. ■
This (ye gods!) from M'Miilan, the man who levied
a Protective duty on salt in N.S.W. ! And there
was much more of the same sort, including a wild
curse on the bacon and ham duty from the man
who protected N.S.W. bacon and hams —but
space is limited, and M'Miilan is of little import-
ance at best. All through, his speech was a savage
sneer at “ wretched ” Australian industries, but
Sydney is a patient place, and accustomed to be
lectured by the haughty agent of the importing
absentee person, so it took the denunciation in
good part. '
A certain Sydney dentist on a recent day
drew over 200 teeth, at half-a-crown each—and it
is a very cold week indeed in which he doesn’t
pull about a thousand—all at 30 pence a time.
Say £6OOO a year. A carious fortune as distin-
guished from the ordinary dentist’s precarious
living. '
“J.A.C.”: There is one powerful argu-
ment against the exclusion of Chinese and
Japanese which has not been made use of. They
never whistle ; neither have their languages any
equivalent for the word “ whistling.”


jgOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WMPOLE'S GEOHGE HO TE L , opposite Sb.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
PHOSFERINE
The Greatest of all Tonics.
m Phosferine is tlie most powerful Nerve and Recuperative
onic known. It removes Mental Depression, want of Tone arid
-Nerve Power. It has remarkable Health-giving, Strength-giving,
Energising, and Rejuvenating properties.
No other Medicine has received such absolute proof of its
extraordinary properties in restoring Shattered Constitutions, and
m giving back to the prematurely aged New Life and Energy.
It is an unfailing remedy for Neuralgia, Nervous Dys-
pepsia, Anaemia, Brain-Fag, iapresslon, Impoverished Blood,
Rheumatism, Sleeplessness, Indigestion, Influenza, Nervous
Headaches, Debility, and all disorders consequent upon a
reduced state of the nervous system.
ROYAL COMMANDS.
Phosfenne enjoys the distinguished honour of having been supplied by commands to
MEMBERS OF THE BRITISH ROYAL FAMILY.
H.I.M. the Empress of Russia.
H.M. the King of Greece.
H.M. the Queen of Roumania.
H.I.M. the Dowager Empress of Russia
H. S. H. theHereditar v Princess olEeiningen
H.I.H. the Grand Duchess Olga of Russia.
H.R.H. the Crown Princess’of Routuania.
H.I.H. the Grand Ducli ss Serge of Russia.
H.R.H. the Grand Duchess of Hesse.
H.I.H. the Grand Duchess Xenia of Russia.
And the principal Royalty and Aristocracy throughout the World.
No other Medicine has been awarded this uni pie distinction of Ttoyal favor,
and it speaks volumes for the wonderful restorative properties >f Phosf vi ne.
CURES
Neuralgia,
Sciatica,
Lumbago,
Gout,
Rheumatism,
Impaired
Vitality,
Debility,
Brain Fag,
Weakness,
Nervous
Exhaustion,
Melancholia,
Impaired
Digestion, etc.
m
A
Vitalizing:
Tonic,
Imparting
New Life
and
Energy
to the
Entire
System.
CAUTION.
GENUINE PHOSFERINE.
Ashton Sl Parsons, Ld., 17 Farringdon Road, London
the original and only genuine makers of PHOSFERINE find it necessary to
put the public on their guard against mendacious imitations of their well-known
medicine that are being offered for the sake of extra profit.
It is necessary, when purchasing Phosferine, to see that it bears the name of
the genuine makers, viz. :
Ashton & Parsons, Ltd., 17 Farringdonßoad, London
Price in Great Britain, Bottles, 1/IJ, 2/9 and 4/6,
The 2/9 size contains nearly four times the 1/1J size.
The Genuine PhOS'fsntie can be obtained from Washington H.
Soul & Co,, Pitt Street, Sydney, and all respectab’e Chemists.
Wholesale A u eats : SA VKJiS. A F.LPOHT <V POTTED. SYDNEY.
In lib. Round Flat Tins.
Manufacturers :
JOHN MOIH Sl SON, LIMITED,
LONDON, ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE.
Head Office— 9 & io, Great Tower Street, London, E.C.
PURVEYORS BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO HIS MAJESTY THE KING.
COLLINS’ PATENT PROSPECTING DISH
•)
Has the following 1 advantages over
the ordinary Tin Dish—
A Flange projects round one half and
and prevents the loss of any metal-
fine or coarse.
No experience is required to use it.
A boy can pan off as easily as the most
skilful miner.
Double the amount of work can be done
in a given time than with the old dish.
Sold by all Storekeepers and Iron-
mongers throughout Australia.
If you have any difficulty in procuring
the Collins’ Patent Dish in your own
district write to—
R. JOHNSON CLAPHAM
& MORRIS, LTD.
78 Pitt-St., Sydney, and
231 Elizabeth-St., Melbourne.
Manufacturers under License from the
Patentee.
[in. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
fHLOROPYNE.
Oniltion.— Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BHOHCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the (Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr. J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlokodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
sdf
We grant every purchaser
of our
KJj F.CTKIC
KELTS and
A TELIA NCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Beits will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing 1 , we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
JJOWARD & CO. repair any instrument.
Queen-street, Woollahra.
X/TANDOLINES, from Is. weekly.
IVX HOWARD & CO., Woollahra.
Write for lists.
TJRASS INSTRUMENTS, from Is. week.
u CO., Woollahra. Write for lists.
HOWARD &
ILTUSICAL BOXES and ORGANETTES, from Is. weekly.
1 HOWARD & CO., Woollahra. Write for lists.
VOU can hang yourself on our VIOLIN and BANJO
STRINGS. HOWARD & CO., Woollahra. Try them.
A BOUT 50 tons of MUSIC @ Id., 2d., 3d. and 6d. each.
Lists free, HOWARD & CO., Woollahra.
AUTOHARPS, from Is. weekly. HOWARD & CO.,
Woollahra. Write for lists.
rj.UNS and RIFLES, 2s. 6d. weekly. Write for lists.
HOWARD & CO., Woollahra.
SJLUTES, from 6d. each to 20 guineas. Cash or terms.
1 HOWARD & CO., Woollahra.
WIOLINS from Is. weekly, 1500 in stock. Write for lists.
’ HOWARD & CO., Queen-st., Woollahra.
nAN JOS from Is. weekly, all kinds in stock. Write for
lists. HOWARD & CO., Woollahra.
A CCORDIONS from Is. week, 1000 in stock. Write for
lists. HOWARD & CO., Woollahra.
A NGLO CONCERTINAS, 30s. to £12125., cash or terms.
Write for lists. HOWARD & CO., Woollahra.
TYPEWRITERS, 2s. 6d. weekly, brief and foolscap.
L HOWARD & CO., Woollahra.
IIHONOGRAPHS from Is. week, also other talking
* machines. HOWARD & CO., Woollahra.
11ICYC1.ES from 2s. 6d. weekly. HOWARD & CO.,
Queen-st., Woollahra. Write for particulars.
pIANOS and ORGANS, cash or terms. Write for lists.
L HOWARD & CO., Woollahra.
] I OWARD & CO. extend their easy terms all over the
’ colonies. Queen-st., Woollahra.
j I OWARD & CO., largest time-payment firm in the
colony for everything. Queen-st., Woollahra.
yIOLINS and FITTINGS of every kind.
HOWARD & CO.,
Queen Street, Woollahra.
Inconsequences.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Peters got up slowly, and scraped all the stars,
mud, and mixed fireworks out of his face and
eyes ; then he looked fiercely at Matthews with
his unbashed orb.
“What in the name of blazes did you do
that for ? ” he queried, savagely.
Matthews grinned cheerfully, and gazed, first
at the lump on his fist, then at Peters’ minced-up
countenance ; lastly he regarded the sky.
“ I’m d d if I know, Jack ! ” he said.
* * * *
Five years now passed away, as the pious, old-
style lady-novelists would trenchantly remark.
Matthews had become a mining manager of
great avoirdupois in the West, while Peters—
though he had similarly migrated towards the
setting sun—remained the same old, fat-headed,
bepr-hiding baronet of the shovel and fuse-coil.
When the high chief underground mullock-
masher of the Day Dawn Co. sacked Peters one
morning for being unduly drunk, the latter re-
garded him placidly for a while, then got leisurely
off the premises and meandered over to Matthews’
show.
Matthews was standing in the shadow of his
vast tailings-heap when Peters arrived, listening
complacently to his thirty head of stampers as
they hammered and battered and shattered away.
Peters looked at him unsteadily for a minute
through the chinks in his clay-ornamented
visage; then, spitting in the direction of the
. poppet-heads, he wagged his head and said—
“ Gisser job, boss.”
Matthews, closing his note-book, gazed at the
weird object before him and laughed. “All
right,” he said ; “ there’s room for a man or two
in the north-eastern cross-cut, so you can start in.”
* * * •
One afternoon three months later, Matthews,
on his weekly tour round in search of flamboyant
report-matter, ambled into the stope wherein
Peters and a couple of others were grafting
desultorily.
Holding his candle up to the face, he rubbed it
critically with a forefinger, then held out the
-tallow to the nearest man. “ Here, take this,” he
half-commanded, “and let’s go and have a look
into that old drive.”
Peters, as muddy and unrecognisable as ever,
was the nearest man ; and, taking the candle, he
mooched dutifully back into the ancient drive. At
the far end of it Matthews put his hands behind
his back, and directing his companion to hold the
glim up high, glanced critically at the hanging-
wall.
“ Worth another try there ; what do you think?”
he queried, as though the strange person beside
him was a brother mine-boss.
Peters, however, was thinking of old days over
in Victoria, when one Tom Matthews and he had
persistently “ wagged it ” from school in order to
go prospecting and pig-rooting among the hills.
Thus he forgot to answer the boss’s question or
even to take any notice of it until it had been twice
repeated.
Then he woke up in the midst of a peculiar day-
dream, and—on a sudden impulse—shifted the
candle into his left hand, and bashed Matthews
fairly and squarely with his right.
The boss went wallop on the muck-paved floor
like so much stamper-fed quartz ; then, bouncing
up, he pranced, round Peters, and roared as he
wiped the slush and comets out of his eyes:
“ 7 ! What the
; did you do that for? you ” he splut-
tered around furiously in search of a fitting word.
But Peters merely grinned, and looked at
his fist; then he gazed at the manager’s smitten
preface; and finally he squinted up where the
sky should have been.
“ I’m d dif I know, Tom !” he said, with a
wider grin.
Matthews started, and looked him over closely
with his undamaged “lamp.” “ Great Scott !
it’s you, Jack ! Shake hands, old man ; and let’s
get up out of this into my office and have a drink.
But what did you want to hit so hard for? I’ll
have a black eye for a month.”
Peter smiled under his clay, “ Phoo ! —I had one
for three ! ” ,
VIC.
GRANT HERVEY.
SOME DEFINITIONS.
Legislator: A triune incarnation oi l.aw, Jaw, and
Maw.
Knowledge: A keen comprehension of human ignor-
ance.
Ignorance : A close acquaintance with the contents of
the daily newspapers.
Prayer: Often a frank confession that some people
believe their Deity has long ears.
Millionaire : A poverty-begotten begetter of poverty.
Proletariat: Human compost for the money mush-
rooms.
Social Pprist: One who lives in the sewer that he may
better demonstrate the existence of stinks.
Bigotry : The sincerity of the stupid.
Freedom : The right to choose the fetters that fit.
P. Luftig.
. «.
J.A.C. : Be “ Crutchy’s ” reference (B.
2/11/1) to the selfish criminals who throw banana
and orange peel on footpaths:—
There are other street nuisances who badly need
suppression. The man who carries his walking-stick
horizontally under his arm, and the woman who parades
under verandahs with an open umbrella—both thus
jeopardising the eyes of the lieges—and, worst of all, the
homicidal idiot who drops a still-lighted match on the
side-walk : I know of two cases in which women were
burnt to death from this cause.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.


H.R.H. THE QUEEN OF GREECE.
H.R.H. PRINCESS MARIE OF GREECE.
H.R.H. THE PUKE OF SPARTA.
UNDER THE ROYAL PATRONAGE OF
■
H.R.H. THE DUCHESS OF SPARTA.
H.R.H. PRINCESS HOHEhnuQHE.
H.R.H. PRINCE GEORGE OF GREECE.
(High Commissioner of Crete, &c., &c.)
EDWARDS’
99
FOR
THE
ďf
Photo d specially for the “Harleue” Co., by Langfier, Bond St., W,
Haymarket rheatre, London.
Miss JULIA NEILSON
•writes —
“ I am at present trying your ' Harlene 'for my
hair, and I find it one of the best Hair Tonics and
Restorers / have ever used, and I have tried many.
Will you kindly send me two more bottles."
THE GREAT HAIR
PRODUCER and RESTORER.
THE FINEST DRESSING SPECIALLY PREPARED AND
DELICATELY PERFUMED.
A LUXURY AND A NECESSITY TO EVERY MODERN TOILET
“ Harlene ” Produces Luxuriant Hair. Prevent its Falling Off and Turning
Grey. Unequalled for Promoting the Growth of the Beard and Moustache.
The World Renowned Remedy for Baldness. For Preserving, Strengthening,
and Rendering the Hair Beautifully Soft, for Removing Scurf Dandruff, &c.,
*also for Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Colour.
»-3gS -1 ■ ■ ■
Crown Prince’s Palace, Athens.
H.R.H. PRINCFSS MARIE OF GREECE
writes—“ Messrs. Edwards’ Preparation, ‘Harlene’ for the Hair, has given entire
satisfaction. H.R.H. wishes six more bottles of ‘ Harlene ’ sent as soon as possible.”
Kitegyhaza, County Bikis, Hungary.
COUNTESS DENIS ALMASY
writes—“ Please forward me three more bottles of ‘Harlene,' as I am particularly satisfied
with the two bottles sent me to Switzerland, and have been using it ever since.”
Full Description and Directions for use in Twenty Languages supplied with every
Bottle. 1/-, 2/6, and (three times 2/6 size) 4/6 per Bottle, from Druggists, &c.,
all over the World. ♦
Photo’d specially lor the “ Harlene
Co. t by T.angfier, Bond St., W.
Gamick Theatre, London.
Miss VIOLET VANBRUGH
wi ites —
"l am very pleased to testify to the excellent
qualities 0/ 'Harlene,' it is most refreshing and
invigorating and I have found it very Stimulating
to the Growth o 1 my Hair.
" P.S. —/ hope fate will never take me to any
quarter of the globe where I should be unable
to procure ‘ Harlene.' ”
EDWARDS’ “HARLENE" Co., 95 & 96, Hisrh Holborn, London, W.C
GOOD WATCHES.
Every one of us is a slave to the Watch. That being so, why should we be ruled by an incompetent
master ? If you want a good Watch at a Reasonable price, we can recommend all those we describe
here. You will find that our prices have not been advanced on account of the Tariff,
ninety-nine shopkeepers in a hundred are charging higher prices now. Come in and see our Enormous
Stock of Watches, all of which you can have at the old Prices.
m
mm.
m
n
S.D. & Oo.’s Lady’s 10-ct. Gold Keyless
WALTHAM LEVER WATCH, with best-
finished J-plate movement, patent safety
barrel, expansion balance, jewelled,
strong; Solid Gold Engraved Hunting
Cases, perfect Keyless Action, sunk
seconds, and enamelled dial, £6 10s. In
14-ct. cases, with movements as above,
£9 10s. In 18-ct. cases, with finest
quality movement made, £l4 10s. In
Silver Hunting Oases, £3 ss. Open Face,
£3. All above have specially-made heavy
cases.
«
■
m
S.D. & Co.’s “ EXCELSIOR ” KEYLESS ENGLISH
LEVER is unsurpassed by any watch. It is compact,
convenient, and reliable, dust and damp-proof, has
best f-plate movement, fully jewelled in rubies ; real
Chronometer balance, heavy, Hall-marked Silver
Cases, each guaranteeol for 5 years, £G 10s ; in heavy
18-ct. Gold Cases, £22 ; Open Face, £lB 10s ; also
made Keywind Hunting, in Massive Silver Cases, at
£5. Strongly recommended. Silver Keyless Hunting
Rotherham English Levers, £6 10s. Keywind
Hunting Rotherham English Levers, best quality,
I
/
B
WA
m
.
S.D. & Co.’s “ECLIPSE” WATCHES have finest
quality f-plate, full-capped dust-proof movements,
jewelled in 8 holes. Ex'.ra heavy Sterling Silver
Cases, and are perfect timeke /pers. The best watches
at the price ever sold. In IluntingCases, s£2 ; Crys-
tal Front, ;S1 103. Ladies’ sizes, with Elegantly
Engraved Oases, Open Face, £llO3 ; Hunting, §JI.
*1.7
✓
/
This shows our Gentleman’s size Solid Silver Hunt-
ing Case WALTHAM LEVER WATCH, 3-plate, 11
jewel movement, Brequet sprung, compensation
balance, £,3 10s. ; in 10-ct. Gold Hunting Cases,
£,9 10s. ; in 14-ct Gold, £l2 10s.
EACH WATCH CARRIES OUR GUARANTEE.
m
m
m
S.D. & Co.’s Ladv’s Magnificent 18-ct. Gold
Keyless “ NONPAREIL ” WATCHES are truly
a speciality among specialities, much recom-
mended to ladies who desire a unique, compact,
and elegant, inexpensive Gold Watch. The
entire watch is most exquisitely finished, fine
full-jewelled movement, 18-ct. Gold, Strong
Cases, Perfect Keyless Action, convenient and
reliable. Hunting Cases, £,7 10s. Open Pace,
£6 105. Warranted for 3 years.
I
This is a Lady’s 14-ct. Gold Filled WAL-
THAM LEVER WATCH, made for us by the
Waltham Coy. The movement is a Jewelled
f-plate one, and the Hunting Case is guaran-
teed to wear for 25 years, surely a reason-
able time for such a low price— viz., £4.
Gentleman’s size, £5 108.
i 4
c,-
d
m
S.D. & Co.’s 18-ct. GOLD KEYLESS
“PRINCESS” WATCH has finely-fin-
ished Jewelled movement, strong solid
18-ct. gold Engraved Cases, Perfect Key-
less Action, £5 10s. Half-Hunting, £6.
Open Face, £4los. Also in Silver Half-
Hunting or Full-Hunting Oases. £2 10s.
Open Face, £2. Warranted for 2 years.
mm
DAWSON
LIVERPOOL
m
Situ!
S.D. & Oo.’s English Hunting Lever Watches con-
tain special patented improvements ensuring dura-
bility, timekeeping, and freedom from accident in
wear. The movements are full-capped, dust-proof,
jewelled in rubies, and the cases are strong sterling
Silver, hall-marked, £3 10s., warranted for 3 years.
Special quality, with chronometer expansion balance,
and 3 pairs extra jewels, £4los.
All Watches sent Free and Safe
by Registered Post on receipt of
Remittance,


Messrs. J. C. Ludowici and Son, Ltd, are en-
larging their premises at 117 York-street, Sydney, and
are carrying larger stocks than before of machine belting
and mechanical leathers.*
Messrs. S. Hoffnung and Co., Limited, Sydney,
Brisbane and Melbourne, have issued a very handsome
and convenient diary for 1902, and if you want to make
money, get a Hoffnung diary, and with its aid, work on a
system. The diary can be had from the firm for the
asking.*
The New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency
Co., Limited, report:—Wheat: The market during the
week has been of more than ordinary interest. Trans-
actions have been on a large scale, and, whereas the
pinched and faulty descriptions have been difficult of
disposal at late rates, samples equal to f.a.q. and prime
have considerably advanced. Our latest reports from Vic-
toria point to a general hardening for such descriptions,
and those owners who elected to store for a time will, we
think, reap considerable benefit by their decision to ac-
cept the three months free storage annually offered them.
As a guide, quotations may thus be given, viz.: Prime, to
3s. Id.; f.a.q., 2s. lid. to 35.; pinched and chickwheat, 2s.
7d. to 2s. Bd. per bushel. Sydney, January 10th, 1902.
The Melbourne Directory, 1802
NOW READY. Price 20s. ALL BOOKSELLERS.
SANDS and M'DOUGALL LTD.
The . . .
New Zealand Insurance Company.
SHAREHOLDERS in the,above Company are
hereby notified that a Dividend of 2s. per
Share, for the half-year ended 30th November
last, and a Bonus of Is. 6d. per Share, is
now payable at the Company’s Offices, 81- Pitt-
street, Sydney.
J. A. MINNETT, Manager.
m
Dr. J. W. GIBBS’
. . Electric Massage Rollers . .
For use on Face and Body.
For NERVOUS HEADACHES,
NEURALGIA and RHEUMATISM
—a specific. Removes Wrinkles.
Gold, 21/- Silver, 16/-
Post Free. Pamphlets Free.
AMERICAN AGENCY COMPANY,
Box 410, G.P:O.,
Melbourne.
amusements.
DRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
Acting-Manager .. Thos. P. Hudson.
EVERY EVENING,
■THE GREAT CHINESE-JAPANESE ATTRACTION
A Unique and Extraordinary
Spectacular Operatic Extravaganza—
ALADDIN.
ALADDIN .. MISS NELLIE STEWART.
Produced on a Scale of Magnificence Unsurpassed in any
Part of the World.
MATINEE, SATURDAYS, at 2 p.m.
Prjces as Usual, 'm Box Plan at Allan’s.
gIJOU TH2ATRE, MELBOURNE.
PARAMOUNT SUCCESS NIGHTLY of Lea & Rial’s
THE WORLD’S ENTERTAINERS.
SPECIAL ENGAGEMENT OF THE MARVELLOUS
LQTTOS ; ALSO MR. WALLACE BRQWNLOW.
Prices—3s., 2s. & Is. Matinees Wednesdays £- Saturdays.
JOE BROWN, Business Manager.
New Tivoli Theatre, and
New Tivoli Hotel, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mr. HARRY RICKARDS.
Rickards’s New Opera House and
- Prince of Wales Hotel, Melbourne,
Sole Proprietor—Mr. HARRY RICKARDS.
Bijou Theatre, Melbourne.
Sole Lessee—Mr. HARRY RICKARDS.
Sub-let to .Messrs. LEE and RIAL.
Gaiety Theatre, Melbourne.
Sole Lessee—Mr. HARRY RICKARDS.
Sub-let to Miss MAGGIE MOORE.
New Tivoli Theatre, Adelaide.
Sole Lessee—Mr. HARRY RICKARDS.
Amusements.
£ M £ l f? E THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Uastlereagh-street, next Fire Station, between
Bathurst-streeb and Liverpool-street.
Railway Trams pass the Door.
Lessees .. .. John Fuller and Sons. •
A PANTOMIME BOOM—A BOOMING.PANTOMIME.
Robinson Crusoe—Robinson Crusoe
HIS MAN FRIDAY and the GIDDY GOAT.
Every Evening- at 7.45. Saturdays and Wednesdays, 2.30.
Prices 25., Is., and 6d. Children half-pricejexeept 6d.
seats. Matinee Prices—Children half-price all parts.
LJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY^
■ ■ Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J.-C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Mout.rie.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
RETURN TO SYDNEY FOR A BRIEF SEASON,
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S GRAND ITALIAN OPERA CO.
THURSDAY, JAN. 16, RICOLETTO
FRIDAY, JAN.. 17, FEDORA.
Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6s. ; Subscribers
Tickets, ss. in books of 40. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
T“ F TR E Royal, syd ne y
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas. W. E. Bryer.
Every Evening, at 8. Matinees Every Afternoon, at 2.
CONTINUED SUCCESS of
the Charming, Funny, Frolicsome, Entertaining Fairy
Pantomime, entitled
ALICE IN WONDERLAND,
U2T Prices as Usual.
Plan at Elvy and Co.’s.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Charles Arnold.
THURSDAY, JAN. 16th and FRIDAY, JANUARY 17th
CHARLES ARNOLD in
What Happened to Jones,
Preceded by the Episode, “An Emp'y Stocking:.’’
SATURDAY, JAN. 18th, The Professor’s Love Story.
THE NEW TARIFF—3s., 25., Is. 6d. and Is. Nightly.
Plan at Paling’s. EDWIN GEACH, Manager.'
LY C EU M THE ATR E, SY D N E^G
Sole Lessee and Manager . . .. William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING- at 8. o’clock—EVEßY EVENING.
. -CONTINUED GREAT SUCCESS
of WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION,
GrREBD O F GOLD.
PRICES—3s, 2s and ONE SHILLING. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
CRITERION THEATRE, SY DNE Y.
Under the direction of Mr. Charles Holloway.
TO-NIGHT, at 7.50 TO-NIGHT, at 7.50
Mr. CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S COTERIE OF
POPULAR PLAYERS,
in the Exciting and Mirth-Provoking Drama, entitled
For tf>s- Saks of a WonjaQ-
Popular Prices —35., 2s-. and Is. (early doors6d extra).
Flan at Nicholson and Co’s.
QAIETY THE A T KE, MELBOURN E.
Under the Direction of Maggie Moore.
EVERY EVENING. Australia’s Great Favorite,
MAGGIE MOORE
(Supported by her-own Dramatic and Comedy Co.)
Friday, Jan. 17th—Last Night of STRUCK OIL.
Saturday, Jan. 181 h—The Great Irish. Drama,
THE COLLEEN BAWN
For SIX
Nights Only.
Popular Prices—3s., 2s. and Is. J. E. MOORE, Manager.
"[THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
■ Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. Bland Holt.
FOURTH WEEK FOURTH WEEK
And Continued Popularity of
THE SPAN OF LIFE.
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. 6d., 25., Is. 6d. and Is. Box
Plan at Allan’s.
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
UER MAJI STY S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ ■ Sole Lessee and Manager : Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, George Tallis. . Treas., E. J. Tait.
EVERY EVENING;
THE GREATEST OF ALL GAIETY SUCCESSES,
SAN TOY,
The Record Success of the English Stage, interpreted by
the full strength of the Famous
ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY at 2 p.m.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allan’s.
MM
pji
, V
FREE!
A BEAUTIFUL SOLID GOLD RING set
with a Genuine Garnet.
NO MONEY WANTED.
Simply send us your name and address, plainly written on a postal card,
and we will send you 20 packages of our imperishable Violet Perfume in
a box—free of all expense to you. You then sell the perfume among your
friends and neighbours at 6d. a package ji' ybu>«i)rsß'd~whsTyo"ii remit
us the money you have collected and we will send you Absolutely Free
for your trouble the above described ring, which is stamped and war-
ranted Solid Gold, set with a Genuine Garnet. Remember
you have no duty or charges of any kind to pay—both the
perfume and premiums are sent absolutely Fi ee of al I charges.
Our object in making this marvellous offer, and giving such un-
usual fii.e premiums, is to get our very superior perfume into the
hands of tije public immediately, as we are satisfied that everyone
vull be so well pleased \yith it that they will gladly recommend it
their friends—we have hundreds of unsolicited testimonials.
Yousimpty send your |name and address plainly written on a
post card, and we will send the perfume. No money reguired.
We take all ri-k. Goods returnable if not sold.
Remember we pay all Shipping Expenses,
NATIONAL SUPPLY C 0„ 38 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
BAKER & ROUSE PROPRIETARY. LTD
The Premo.
Premos
Produce
Perfect
Pictures.
Largest Photographic Supply House
in Australia.
Manufacturers of the well-known
PEARL BROMIDE PAPERS
Naod or Stai>d CarsjsraS for Sfyap-Sbot ai)d Tinje
CxpoSCircs fronj 5/6 to £3O.
The Al-Vista.
CATALOGUES MAILED
ON APPLICATION.
375 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
260 Collins-street, Melbourne.
65 Bundle-street, Adelaide.
90 and 92 Queen.sk, Brisbane.
Inigo Tyrell, who is said to have once, in a wild burst
of humor, advertised himself as “ the worst actor in the
world,” has just been playing a season at Broken Hill.
The season was a very short one ; almost everything is
short at Broken Hill now—money, water, beer and credit,
and only time and the drought, and the waiting for a rise
in lead, are very, very long. Tyrell has been in America
since the days The Bulletin used to make remarks about
him. His return to Australia was very unobtrusive.
“ H." : An illustrious Poverty Pointer, and I judge
him to be John Coleman, turns up in the December Nine-
teenth Century with the article on a subsidised National
Theatre, which is certain to recur, once a year, from
somebody. The Sydney and Melbourne municipalities,
each combining, could subsidise a local theatre, on this
basis : Make it a cheap house, with an eye only to literary
instruction. Gallery—3d. for adults, 2d. for the young:
other prices 6d. and Is. Act good literary plays—
Shakespeare, Knowles, Bulwer, Sheridan, Schiller, Hugo,
&c. Only passable scenery and dresses, kept in stock.
Cheap stock company, headed by such a one as 'Gus
Glover. Grand preserve for old actors. May be the loss
would not exceed 30 per cent. The mistake is in the
idea of beginning with a tip-top National Theatre, where
money is to be squandered on expensive people, and
magnificent decorations. What a lot of careful players
would be glad of £2 a week, all the year round.
According to Sydney Evening News, Melba has written
to some friends re “the pleasurable anticipations” of
going to “ a picnic party once again in the real Australian
bush, when she intends to preside at the tea-making, and
will take special charge of the bush-fire and the boiling
of the billy.” Why, she’s boiling the billy now to some
purpose !
Marie Lloyd re-appeared in London at the end of
November, taking on three halls in one evening, with
three songs in each. At her third appearance she broke
down, made a few remarks about the awful fog then pre-
vailing in London, and retired. Yet Marie’s songs should
sound, and look, a good deal better through a thick fog.
The fair and shapely Nellie Stewart has abandoned the
variety of tights introduced to Australia by her in “ The
Scarlet Feather.” and worn with much effect in last year’s
panto. This time, both Nellie and the Chorus hide por-
tion of their shapeliness beneath the old-time trunks.
In “ The Span of Life ” hero Baker enjoys an experience
which doesn’t often befall the good young man of melo-
drama. He makes his entree in the first act with Miss
Bnghtie Smith clinging round his neck from the rear,
pick-a-back fashion. Brightie; who is 17 at the very
least, is a burden that a good many men would gladly
carry at a. much lower salary than Baker gets, and if
Australia knows a nice girl when it sees her, Bland Holt
will be inundated with offers from people willing to carry
Bnghtie at a great reduction. ~
“ Melb.” : Rickards’ first parts, now defunct, were
mounted more tastefully than the old Yankee fashion
which only festooned bunches of big 1 women. Clint in
the scenery, and Miss Rickards, in the costume’ry,
a'chieved excellent tableaux. Rickards has been accus-
tomed to employ 30 performers nightly, averaging five
minutes each. . -
How the American accent pervades Australian theatres
now. In Melbourne, it is tarry thick at the Princess’s
Opera House, and Bijou. In Sydney, at the Tivoli, and,
to some extent, at the Roval, whilst the Arnold co is
producing mostly American plays'; 'and an American
Oonnc Opera organisation is somewhere in the Federa-
tion.
The last days of “Hans the Boatman,” at Sydney Palace,
were embittered by the police, who threatened Charles
Arnold with a prosecution under the' Children’s Pro-
tection Act for allowing two. infants to appear The
O.P. Act provides penalties for those’Who allow children
under seven years to “take a part” in a'theatrical pro-
duction. Arnold was proceeded against in London on
the same point. The child then appearing was his own
little son, gncl the London magistrate dismissed .the case
•on the ground that a child of a few months old couldn’t
’rn < u S ’ S 1 k° be “ taking a part ” in a performance.
This may be sound law, but, if correct, who is to say
when a child reaches the exact age under seven at which
it can. fairly be said to “ take a part ” ?
“ F.” : The Poverty Pointer who got struck on Josephine
Gassman s “ rich, satiny-brown, flawless skin ” was the
victim of a stage device. Jos. puts on that “pure
browh ” complexion, or leaves it off, just as the weather
suits her. In hot weather the color was apt to run and
every time-the gentle-J. drew her handkerchief-across-
her perspiring neck she lost a little creolishness. So now
She is usually a yhite Josephine—at matinees, anyhow.
Bland Holt never revives a melodrama without im-
proving on the previous production of it. The present
setting of the “ boneless bridge ” scene in “ Span of Life ”
is so artfully lighted that one doesn’t notice the wires
which used to mar the effect. x
Decima Moore’s successful application for divorce from
her husband, Cecil Leigh, reminds *■ of an incident
which happened seven years ago, when they came to
Australia, in the “ engaged” state, with the “Gaiety
Girl ” co. A previously-imported baritone of the William-'
son and Musgrove Opera Co., who had been Miss Decima’s
best boy when he left England, took the first opportunity
to interview his supplanter. His intentions were war-
like, and the meeting between the two men pro-
mised to be a thrilling event. But it wasn’t. The
jilted one went up to the other fellow and accosted
him by name in a tone of inquiry, like H. M.
Stanley greeting the famous exp'uri-r in .Africa. The
other fellow,‘who was some im-I.es taller'than his tali'
questioner, replied curtly “That is my-name,” and the
“scene” ended. The jilted one remarked in a casual
sort of way that it was “ just as well to know.” Then he
looked -at- febe-weatrber and passed" on: —He waited for
Time to bring its consolations, and Time has duly done so.
“ S,S.’.’: Only non-bike riders enthuse over the “ mar-
vellous ” riding of the Lottos, who have now gone over
from Melb. Princess Panto, to the World’s Entertainers
at the Bijou. The alleged 60 degrees’ angle at which the
Lottos scour round their circular track is not a great deal
steeper than some of the sharp pinch-s on several Aus-
tralian cycle, paths. The turn would really he marvel-
lous if the four rode with the same circumference, at the
same [pace, on a, flat track. As it is, they merely meet a
familiar natural law half-way, and neutralise the centri-
fugal force that impels quickly-revolving objects to fly
from their hub by sharply banking the plane upon which
they
and consequently‘is a good variety item.
Over 100 inmates of the George-street
asylum, Parramatta (N.S.W.), were transferred
recently from the old tinder-box to better
quarters. The scare occasioned by the recent fire
seems to have had a beneficial effect on the
authorities.
i€ ° n the Tweed River, t’other day,- a
saved ” Kanaka was married to a white woman
with all the rites. The choir sang as a finale,
. Ch, what shall the harvest be?” And did
it without a single smile.
A taste of the voyage back by returned
cohentingenters:—
They had to camp in the horse-boxes used for the
transport of horses brought out from England. As the
health regulations prevent a steamer of this class cleaning
Up j”JP° rt ’ the 7 le ave it to the public to imagine the
conditions under which they were housed.; it was not
for several days after leaving the Cape that any attempt
was made to cleanse that part of the ship, and even then
the work was only partially done.
When done with, to the refuse-heap !
. The utter weakness of the Peacock Govt,
is to be seen in its shilly -shallying over important
appointments. The Railway Commissi oner ship
has been vacant for a year, and nothing has been
done. It was announced that the Govt, had
dsctded to revert to the old pernicious system of
three commissioners. When the idea was scouted
on all sides a feeler was put out to the effect that
the Govt, was prepared to retrace its silly steps.
•*-he Age wants its little friend Kibble appointed,
and if it dared the Govt, would like to appoint
Fitzpatrick, who is now Acting-Commissioner.
The most barefaced piece of vacillation has
occurred in. connection with the appointment
°r r> s . ucc ® ssor to Chomley, Chief Commissioner
of Police. When Peacock came into power he and
his Ministers openly sneered at the suggestion
that O’Callaghan, the present superintendent,
should be given the billet. It was hinted that he
didn’t belong to the right color in a poli-
tico-religious sense. Later on the Ministry
came down to the House with the state-
ment that O’Callaghan was to have the billet.
Now Peacock and Trenwith are trying to turn
their backs on that announcement, and are
remarking'that,' as Chomley is not retiring im-
mediately, “anything may happen.” Similar
shuffling 1 has ended in a fourth-class Treasury
officer and a landscape gardener being placed in
charge of the important Forestry Department.
By its appointments ye shall know a Government.
Cabled out that Premier Barton is to be
invited to return front the coronation trip via
Canada, when an effort is to be made to persuade
him to reduce the items in the Federal tariff
which affect the Canadian-Australian trade—
which is decidedly cool. The proposal is really a
protest against any interference with the Cana-
dian-Sydney trade. For years Sydney admitted
almost all Canadian goods free, and the Dominion
didn’t show any hurry to reciprocate. In fact, it
didn’t reciprocate worth a cent. Now, like
Maoriland, it demands, almost as a right, that
Sydney shall be kept open as a dumping-ground
for its goods. There is a fatality about coronations,
jubilees and other Imperial functions. Either at
them, or while coming away from them, somebody
is always lying in wait for our guileless politicians.
Sydney police have, for flu* first time for
years, raided a Chinese gambling den. Anti-
gambling enthusiasm in Sydney progresses in
well-marked cycles, the phenomena of which will
some day be collated and explained by Coghlan or
Wragge. A disturbance approaches the Chinese
gambling dens and produces a profound de-
pression : the police (who follow Whitman’s
advice, and believe in speculations about the
®oul and other things) fill in what time
they have left from raids on pak-a-pu dens
by “backing their "fancy” in the tote-sliops.
Then the sky clears for the Chinese. Raids cease,
and they look for some years of peace, when a
constable will only appear as a customer; but a
dark storm breaks over the tote-shops, which are
raided and raided again. This state' of things
lasts a little while, and then the big bookmakers’
shops. have .exclusive police attention.Jor.a time.
Finally, after a breathing space (when everybody ■
gambles with impunity), the turn of the Chinese
comes again, and there is weeping in Wexford-st.
and gnashing q.fi teeth in Waterloo cabbage-
gardens. Just now, it is John Chinaman’s stormy
time, and fan-tan and pak-a-pu dens, for years
openly tolerated, will contribute something to the
revenue.
G.B.D. pipes ? They are the best finished arid
sweetest pipes on the Australian market, and have by far
the largest sale.*
This is the season when the annual statistical
publication blpoms all over the continent, and the first of
theuseful crop to be garnered in Tub Bulletin’s best
glass book-easels the Year Book of'N.S. Wales, issued
by the same company which publishes the invaluable
i ear Book of Australia— the most r<?ferred-to work of
reference in this country. In addition to the mass of in-
formation about N.S.W., with which its 19 sections are
bursting, there is a quantity of Federal knowledge that
will considerably increase the value of the work Any
local information not found in those 19 sections had better
be regarded as a mystery into which it is sinful to inquire
—after the fashion of the olden geographers who filled in
the unknown regions on their maps with the terse an-
nouncement “ This country is all full of Devils.”


A Nervous Time.
WEAKNESS & GENERAL DEBILITY.
A Good Friend at the Right Time.
The Case of Mrs. J. DEVINE.
(BY A LOCAL REPORTER.)
Many households, scattered up and down
this State of ours, have one or more members
struggling against the most adverse
elements which beset mankind, and how
much mental anguish could be saved if such
facts as those given by Mrs. Jennie Devine,
of the Poultry Mart, Melbourne-street,
South Brisbane, were only thought of at
the right moment? Whilst chatting to
our reporter the other day, Mrs. Devine
said :
“When in the hotel business in Sydney
some years ago, I used to get such strange
turns that I often found it necessary to
leave the bar and go for a lie down. This
happened generally after eating a biscuit or
two, or something of that sort, and I was
deeply concerned about my health, because
my stomach used to swell out so much with
wind that the pain was more than I could
bear, and I had to take my clothes off to
give myself a little ease. The pains were
just like the cramps, and while they lasted
I was rendered as helpless as a child, with a
nasty giddy sensation in my head as well,
and when the giddiness went away I was in
great distress with heavy aches across my
brow. I lost all my spirits, and when
customers came in they never found me in
the mood for a pleasant chat, as I was
always too low-spirited and depressed to
talk. ‘*What is the matter with you ? 1
they used to say. ‘ Really I do not know.
I feel half dead,’ I generally replied. And
so I did, for I had no vigour in my body,
and I felt fatigued before the mornings
were half over. I wished for bed time to
come, but when I retired I could not sleep,
excepting for an hour or so at intervals, and
when I got up next day my limbs were
aching for the want of rest.”
‘‘ I gather from your remarks that your
liver was out of order,” said the scribe.
“So my doctors said; but I was also
suffering from a. severe form of nervous
complaint, as nearly every organ of my
body trembled, especially if I exerted my-
self in any way, and it became quite a
chronic habit for me to think about things
which frightened me—at night particularly.
I only ate when it was compulsory, the
taste in my mouth giving me quite a loath-
ing for my iood ;but the lightest of eatables
gave me pains in the chest, and there was a
continual twitching under my shoulder
blades. My children were at a boarding
school in Parramatta, and on one occasion
when I had been visiting them I was taken
ill in the train. I fainted right away, and
when I recovered my senses my fellow-
travellers said that 1 had gone perfectly
black in the face when the incident oo
curred. The pains in my back and loius
were very bad, and 1 used to get so weak
that I have often had to keep to my bed for
two or three days. If I bent my head for
ward a dizzy sensation came over me, and
everything became quite misty before my
eyes, which felt as if they were swollen I
told you that I only slept for short periods,
bull was forgetting to mention that if the
sleep lasted for but half-an-hour it was
usually attended with the most dreadful
dreams, and when I awoke from them I
seemed so upset and frightened that for a
long while I could hardly realise whethei
those hideous thoughts were real or only
imaginary, The shaking of my nerves in
creased as my strength daily grew less, and
even my feeble appetite at length took its
departure altogether. When I looked at
my pinched face in the glass I used to
wonder, with awful misgivings, what was
going to become of me, for the impoverished
condition of my blood was shown in the
whiteness of my skin, and my body was so
thin and shrunken that my clothes were too
loose for me. Three weary years of torture
had reduced me to this dismal state of help-
lessness, and as I had been treated by
several of the best doctors during that time,
and felt no better for their physic, what
hope could I possibly have of ever getting
my health back again ? My only chance
rested on the medicines which I had seen
mentioned in the papers, I thought, and as
this belief was based on the failures of the
mixtures prescribed by my doctors, I
set about getting something from the
chemists.”
“ With abetter result, I hope?” inter-
polated the newspaper man.
“ I regret to say that they were not all
beneficial to me, although I took plenty of
those advertised concoctions —in fact, too
many, as I was getting more debilitated and
more nervous under the influence of those
vile drugs,”
“Then how do you account for looking
so well now, Mrs. Devine?”
“ 1 will explain the mystery to you in the
same way that I have told others. It was
Clements Tonic which released me from my
diseases, even after all the other so-called
remedies had no effect. For years I had
been wanting % good restorative and
curative medicine, but I did not obtain it
until I had purchased a bottle of Clements
Tonic, a few doses of which gave me a
wonderful amount of relief from my suffer-
ings. The first proper night’s rest 1 had for
a long time was after taking Clements
Tonic, and the difference in my condition
next day was perfectly astonishing, for I
felt quite refreshed and lively, and wanted
something to eat It was in this simple
manner that Clements Tonic carried me out
of danger, the swellings and stomach pains
drifting away by degrees till they were
completely out of existence, and the head-
aches and chest pains were likewise
effectively stopped. Each dose of Clements
Tonic improved my appetite, and as the as-
similation of my food was under the control
of that medicine, I had no trouble from in-
digestion after my meals were concluded.
The regular action of my internal organs,
following the use of Clements Tonic, had an
important bearing on the complete success
with which my ailments were overcome, for
the bitter taste left my mouth, and my
tongue lost all the fur which had covered it.
Thus I was set free from the sense of sick-
ness which had distressed me so much, and
my blood was enriched by the nourishment
I now took. My nerves got firmer and
steadier, till there was not a quiver iii them,
and all the pains and aches about my body
went away and never again returned. Mv
clouded spirits became blight and cheerful,
because 1 was once again a head hv woman ;
and if you care to publish nhat I’ve said
you can do so in any way. a« T lia.c no
other medicinal friend in the woill but
Clements Touic.’
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Jrnnib Dbvink of Poultry Mart. Me bourne-
street, South Brisbane, in the State of qtn cnslaud,
do solemnly and sinceiely declare as fo'lo«s-
That I have carefully read the annexed
document, consisting of three folios, and con-
secutively numbered from one to three, and
that it contains and is a true and faiihf-d account
of my illness and cure bv Clements Tonic ; and also
contains my iull permission to publish in au\ manner
my statements— which I give voluntarily, and without
receiving any payment; and l make Ui s solemn de-
claration conscientiously believinir the same :o he
true, and by virtue of the provisions of tut- oaths
Act 1867.
Taken and declared before me at Soutu Brisbane,
this twentieth day of August, one thous.mu nine
hundred and one.
d. b. McCullough,
A Justice of the Peace.
PRIZE MEDAL DRESSING
HAUTHAWAY’S
PEERLESS GLOSS
takes first prize medals at Boston, Vienna, London, Phila-
delphia, Melbourne, and all other leading cities, for pro-
ducing the finest possible polish, and absolute freedom
from all substances injurious to the leather.
■) It is the favorite dressing of the world for
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S
shoes, as it is easily applied, retains its brilliancy, and will
not rub off and soil garments. Try it once and you will
use it always. Sold nearly everywhere. Made only by
C. L. HAUTHAWAY SONS, BOS ™s: ” ASS '
Business Announcements.
■yOU SHOULD ALWAYS WEAR . . .
AERTEX
CELLULAR
with the cell side next the skin in the case of
UNDERWEAR.
There is not a more health-keeping’ form of covering
for the body, and certainly none more comfortable
—even luxurious.
Besides UNDERWEAR, we Stock . . .
Pyjamas, Hosiery, etc.
And all Kinds, Shapes, Descriptions, and Colors of
Shirts
—from the White, linen-fitted Dress and Ordinary to
Fancy-pleated NegligA, and Out-door Shirts for Tennis
and all uses.
Sole Agents in N.S. W.:
David Braham & Co.,
73 and 75 KIM STREET, SYDNEY.
K¥) 9(119191611
WELL
IN
m •:
HAND
fd
CATARRH Causes DEAFNESS
Buy RaitKV’S Ittedicator and
prevent this. “ A Sovereign
Remedy” for half-a-sovereign
post free (remit by postal note or
coin securely wrapped and
registered). Treatment includes
Medicator, Inhalent to last tour
months, and Nasal Ointment,
so-page booklet, “What is
Catarrh? ” and treatment of hay
fever, etc., post free on request.
HOME CATARRH CURE CO., 229-231 COLLINS ST.
MELBOURNE.
Drunkenness Cured
The Remedy can be given in Tea, Coffee, or Food,
thus Secretly Curing the Patient without
his Knowle'dge.
mHIS CURE FOR DRUNKENNESS has shed a radiance
J- into thousands of hitherto desolate firesides. It does
its work so silently and surely that, while the devoted
wife, sister, or daughter looks on, the drunkard is
reclaimed, even against his will. Mrs. J. HATTON, who
cured her husband with EUCRASY, now writes us that
she has also cured a near and dear relative, and makes a
most earnest appeal to all other women to save the
drunkard. We will post free books and testimonials from
hundreds who have been cured, and Everything needed
to aid you in saving those dear to you.from a life of ulti-
mate poverty and disgrace. Address —
THE EUCRASY CO.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
ARE YOU WEAK,
Low-spirited, Tired of Life ?
Have, You utterly failed in Your efforts
to regain health ?
THE LANCSTON REGENERATOR WILL CURE YOU.
Its effects are almost instantaneous, and the good
effects go on increasing from day to day
ARE YOU A SUFFERER from had health in any of
its many forms ? Do you feel nervous, fretful, timid,
and lack the power of will and action ? Are you sub-
ject to loss of memory, broken sleep, feel listless,
moping, and subject to fits of melancholy ? Are your
kidneys, stomach, urinary organs, liver or blood in a dis-
ordered condition ? Do j 7 Ou feel generally debilitated ?
Do you suffer from Rheumatism, Neuralgia, or other
aches or pains ?
Write to-day for the. Doctor's Calendar ; beauti
fully illustrated, and of vital interest to all.
Seek the Truth, it Costs Nothing-
No matter what you are suffering from, the
REGENERATOR restores the shattered consti-
tution like magic.
address :
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
Cor. RUSSELL and COLLINS STS., ME LB.
QS RX COJRO’s
'feSStHCfo
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope.
Agents for Australasia —PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St. f
Melbourne ; Wholesale Agents for New South Wales —
Australian Drug Co., Ltd., O’Connell St., Sydney. All
Chemists, or Box 165, C.P.O. __
€V€RY MAN
Should send for a VALUABLE PAMPHLET explaining
how all NERVOUS and ORGANIC derangements may be
SUCCESSFULLY TREATED by a NEW METHOD. It is
EASY and PLEASANT, and will effect a PERFECT and
PERMANENT CURE. Sent post FREE. Address—
THE BOTANIC INSTITUTE, VICTORIA CHAMBERS,
ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY. __
DEAR SIR, —I have been cured of Weakness and De
bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
l e pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr. ROBERT
F. PARKHURST, Pitt-street, Sydney.
fd
GOUT
FOR GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Pbout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
THE
DEAF
mm
by osiNG Wilson’s Com-
mon Sense Ear Drums.
Wonderful Results obtained in
eases considered beyond any
treatment. Soft, comfortable,
ana invisible when in use.
Head Noises Relieved.
Pamphlets and Australian
Testimonials Free.
<l. CHALMERS, Sole Agent,
229 Collins St., Melbourne.
[ED
DEAF
w
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
I Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
1 to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible.. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free. 0
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL. LIMBS.
fd
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole Agents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English
American and made to order
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &o.
Send for Catalogues, Par *
ticulars, the.
DENYER BROS.. Surgical Instrument Makers
281 GEORGE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
sf
The “Quaker” Turkish
& Vapor Bath Cabinet.
All who suffer from Rheumatism,
Liver, Kidney or Bladder troubles,
Neuralgia, Eczema, Night Sweats,
&c., should have one of these
Cabinets. Price 30/-
Head and Face Steamer, 47-
Can be forwarded to any address.
J. CHALMERS, Agent,
229 Collins St., Melbourne
THE NEW FRENCH REMEDY
THERAPION
This suc-
cessful
and highly
popular remedy, as employed in the Continental Hospi-
tals by Ricord, Rostan, Jobert, Velpeau, and others,
combines all the desiderata to be sought in a medicine of
the kind, and surpasses everything hitherto employed.
THERAPION No. 1 maintains its world-renowned
and well-merited reputation for derangements of the
kidneys, pains in the back, and kindred ailments, afford-
ing prompt relief where other well-tried remedies have
been powerless.
THERAPION No. 2, for impurity of he - blood,
scurvy, pimples, spots, blotches, pains and swellings of
the joints, gout, rheumatism, and all diseases fo which
it has been too much a fashion to employ mercury, sarsa-
parilla, &c., to the destruction of sufferers’ teeth and ruin
of health. This preparation purifies the whole system
through the blood, and thoroughly eliminates every
poisonous matter from the body.
THERAPION No. 3, for exhaustion, sleeplessness,
and all the distressing consequences of dissipation, worry,
overwork, etc. It possesses surprising power in restoring
strength and vigor to those suffering from the enervating
influences of long residences in hot, unhealthy climates.
THERAPION
may be procured of the
principal Chemists and
Merchants throughout the world. Price in England, 2s. 9d.
and 4s. 6d. In ordering state which of the three numbers
is required, and observe that the word “Therapion”
appears on the British Government Stamp (in white
letters on a red ground) affixed to every genuine package
by order of His Majesty’s Hon. Commissioners, and with-
out which it is a forgery.
Hypnotism
*9
Reader, "why not "be able to use the
most mysterious and powerful force of
nature? By my method you can learn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all the many marvellous feats
that are possible to the Hypnotist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain.; win reluctant affection,,
gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book fcrm a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
Hypnotism, which fully-.explains
the mysteries and secrets
of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever published. For a short
time I wiil send this magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed on
receipt of 6d. (stamps) to cover
postage. Order to-day and learn
to Hypnotize. It is a d ance of
a life-time. Address—
m
j
m
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN, ■
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Dr. LANGSTON’S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
A Tested and Infallible remedy.
Within the reach of all, can be given SECRETLY.
NO FAILURES. CURES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Home Treatment without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections. Call or write tor treatise, posted,
two stamps. Prepared only at the Laboratory of
SURGEON LANGSTON
M.R.C.S. Eng.,
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.


A terrible scene was that on the Murrum-
bidgee, when the bush fire jumped the river and
began a mad race along the banks. Five men
were watching on the bank, and fought the fire
for some time when it broke out on their side ;
but a sudden change of wind trapped them. Four
of the men dashed through the flames and escaped
with severe burns; the other, a station-hand
named Frank Curley, made a detour to escape the
scorching, and perished. Had he shown the same
nerve as the others, he, too, might have got away.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
e Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It dri\es away
iples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
irements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Dear Bulletin, — I see one returned
Cohentingenter has been speaking disparagingly
about the pluek of the Australians. I don’t know
what grounds he has, but I don’t believe his
story. For instance, just look at one of the latest
cases of premeditated gun accident; it happened
in Victoria, with a woman at the business-end
of the weapon. The principals were almost newly-
married, and the bride and groom having had a
few “words” about tea-time, the lady went out
and bought a gun, and, arriving home again with-
out mishap, proceeded to empty its contents at
her lawful master. Failing to “get there” after
two shots, she presumably thought it rather late
for that sort of thing and went to bed. Next
morning, at breakfast, she loaded up again and
had another try, but before doing serious damage
she fell into the arms of the.law. Now that Aus-
tralian husband slept with the woman who had
been firing at him. He didn’t trouble even to take
the gun from her, and he must have known that
he would present a good mark while asleep. Yet
nerve of that kind is apparently so common in
Australia, that he attracted no special attention ;
the papers merely mentioned the matter as a
shooting episode.—X.
AMATEUR PHOTOGRAPHERS
find in
The Folding Pocket
Kodak is made in
Four sizes.
•
No 1, for Pictures
x 3£ ins.
No. IA, for Pictures
2\ x 4£ ins.
No 2, for Pictures.
x 3£ ins.
No. 3, for Pictures
x ins.
•
Prices from
£2lls, 6d. to £4 7s 6d.
Loaded and Unloaded
in Daylight.
THE
routine POCKET
KODAK
A light, compact Camera for hand or stand work,
taking large pictures, yet folding up so as to be
readily carried in the coat pocket. Specially
suited for holiday-makers, cyclists, tourists, «fec.
No dark room is needed for changing the films.
Send for Price List, and mention this paper.
KODAK
THE BLOCK,
284 Collins-st., Melb.
Free Lessons daily at 3 p.m., at above address.
The ‘FEDERAL
Balmoral
BOOT
i
sdf
_ «ar new •• Federal"
Sduu*lili the teat Boot this season. It is made
of finest Dongola oalf, with kid legs, is leather lined,
nil? ?°!l s al 'o fair stitched and standard screwed.
The “ Federal” Balmoral is made pnrposely for us,
-»od yoooon'c get it elsewhere. In all the new fashlon-
ahle shaped toes. Price carriage paid to any address
Jnthe Australian Commonwealth or New Zealand Is
half a guinea pair. Your money baok if not satisfied.
The DON Cash Trading Co.
JOHNSTON ST., COLUNQWOOD,
MELBOURNE
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRAVAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated drops.
FER BRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
bling the constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all
cases of anaemia and
general debility.
Highly recommended
for weak and
debilitated children.
LANCET. “A beautiful and interesting
preparation."
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.- I '/* has all
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
tl does not blachen the teeth."
SOI n BY CHEMISTS AI.L THE 'WORLD OVER.
__ WHOLESALE: Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette-
Hearne’s Bronchitis Curei
T;Ei:E FAMOUS RE3VEEUY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION
lIAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA. 9
Those who have taken this medicine
Boreness in the
forting in allaying
never been known
Mid a Complete Cure is certain
house should be without it, as, taken at
BEIWARE OiF COUGH'S »
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
Asthma.
cured
BY J?£JUJi OTTLB 0F he ARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
"Mr. Hearne.—
“Orange, N.S.W.
“Dear Sir,—l enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs.
»f London, England, from which you will glean that
pour medicine has been a perfect God send to a martyr to
folds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
and. You can see for yourself v. hat an immense success
it was.—Yours faithfully,
Extract from letter alluded to above
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
irrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
nuch Interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
iff the empty bottle to find out if he .could get a full one
b nin a chemist who is in a large wav here.”
The names are withheld from pfi I n ation, but will be
mpplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS' TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
o- t •u . „ “Dergholm, Victoria.
Dear Sir,—l wish to add my testimonv to the won-
lerful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
nonths, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
! was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
.dvice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
'ours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
Irst dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
nn a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
nay depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
vonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“ Yours faithfully,
“JAMES ASTBURY."
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
learne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
ectly and rapidh successful under circumstances which
indoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed hv
he jßpv. JOHN SINCLAIR, M.vers-street, Geelong, and
Ifty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS.
'" n,ly ' “ d '* °”" d «•* “■'» ™ <">» <~ t» a™.
“ Your'Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
JOHN b “'“ ‘° “ “» sm °thcring has com-
“ I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.”
culty of has all gone?— J. S H A^till'NGTON^Bin^egcm^f, 6
dl =»l'P«»"c> *»« two dcct.-O. J. CURRIE. Solicitor, Victor!, dumbo*,
®Sf 1 1^” i S!s!w> ,pl “ d, d "“*• Ih ‘ “ re —
“ Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.-C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria.*
W.“rr.S,° VlcfS 0 -°” e "'* b “ t **>• - I “‘tto b. . mat
O. smWK?a °~ Th i ™"“ *“ It w*d mo right o. .t o»c-
-“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria."
18 lh ' l ;“ 1 h * d ' 1 “ It—nding I, to
“ Pl ® a . se send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in Hie winter n
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome Victoria ” * ’ d haS nOW
•
“ Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new exDerience for all the merticine t • ,
took made me much worse. lam satisfied that ihe two bottles of Bronc-hitis’Cure I cot ta, * Previously
me through a lonir and dangerous illness.—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, P " ed
Poinl T^Darhn\d 0 o f rd, r^c C tort.- ?Ure 1 ,r ° m y ° U WM '“ in its effects. -CH AS. WHYBROW, Enoch's
Gratitude and Appreciation.
HUNDREDS CUBED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
"The Scientific Australian Office,
~ .. „ 'i 16 ® Queen-street, Melbourne.
Dear Mr. Hearne,—The silent workers are frequent!
effective and if there is anybody in Victor!
• during the last few years has been repeatedly work
Pifw.it - and 8 the praises of Hearne’s Bronchiti
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
m # e "Heman, some three years ago, was recom
Sn d nt% yOU !' Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ao
mlvL i. ns '? treet ’ and the effect that it had was S(
,AT t -. a ; h ® has ever sin ce been continually recom
mending it to others.
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value o
!lT rn % s ,nost valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has easet
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people ever
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
"PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.’
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS
w n tt 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
dr>7on C; Hearne. Dear Sir,—Please send us 3(
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose oui
cheque to cover amount of order.
“We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
of K hi=Ti?!? n to l d us to d ay that he had given it to a child
°L h * s u mos t remarkable result, the child being quit*
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
' THOMASON, CHATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.’ -1
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“ W ‘ ? earne > Es q- Hear Sir-Permit me to express
rw r appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Ouie. I had, s °nie months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken
With immediate curative effect. '
“I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
Editor Geelong Advertise®,'
“Upon looking through our books wearestruok with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of vour
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
Druggists, Sydney, N.S. W. eBaJo
BRANCH DEPOT
Small Size, 2s
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
w. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street Svdnev Tel •Wfto
6d; Large, 4s 64 Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. ****** H Post to any a2 L w ,l' no t oiJjJS^
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food for
Infants
9
“‘Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
Invalids
AND
THE AGED.
BENQER’S FOOD is not only highly nutritious,
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BERBER'S FOOD is said in Tint by Chemists, Be., sverymharo.


Health«( Health
FREEMAN & WALLACE
#
SOrgical IpStitOtc.
The Two Men of Especial Eminence in
Pathological Problems who have the
Largest Practice in Australasia.
To the Readers of the Common-
wealth.
It is always necessary, when introducing to the
public notice any new subject, that the introduc-
tion should be clear and complete. In calling
your attention to the literature of this page, our
m
i
m
fd
HOWARD FREEMAN,
Member Dr. Harmon’s College, Washing*
ion, Cor., Cal., U.S.A.; Professor of
Electricity; Founder and Director of
the Institute.
course is more than clear. Messes. Freeman
and Wallace have long ago been introduced to
the populace of Australia, but there are many
matters connected with the great Institute con-
trolled by them of which the public have not the
most intimate acquaintance. We are desirous of
describing to you the outward appearance and
the inner workings of their great national establish-
ment, the Electro-Medical and Surgical Insti-
tute, a splendid photograph of which is here dis-
played. In addition, a few words will not be too
reiterative, explanatory of the international
eminence enjoyed by its governing staff of
Specialists.
. There are two well and widely known men con-
nected with this great Institute.
The handsome illustrations will afford the
reader an opportunity of judging them, and a
glance at the qualifications will complete the con-
viction that their eminence has been gained by a
life-long study in the dark pathways of human
suffering and devastating disease. It is in these
dark pathways of existence that true Experience
is gained, it is there Theory shows its uselessness,
and Practice its utility. Practice embodies Ex-
perience ; Experience, Success; and Success,
Eminence. Thus we have Messrs. Freeman and
Wallace standing pre-eminent in the Southern
world as Medical. Specialists in Nerve, Brain,
Liver, Heart, Lung and Chronic Blood
Diseases. Their fame is essentially an evolution
of profound individual research and refined in-
tellectual thought of a most advanced and prac-
tically scientific nature.
The experience and popularity enjoyed by
Messrs. Freeman and Wallace is not evolved
by the passage of a few days. Although a man
may awake to find himself famous, that fame is
always the result of great application and
patient endeavour. Many long and arduous
days, nights, and years of earnest toil and hopeful
research lead up to the dawn of the final famous
morning. This has been the case with these great
Specialists; they have been for a great number of
• years before the public of Australasia, to whom
they are as well known as the Premiers and high
political luminaries of each Federated State.
There is no doubt as to their skill; no question
of their eminence; their ability in healing certain
classes of diseases each day ensures their deathless
popularity.
Conjunctive with the great international posi-
tions attained by them in the fields of Specialism,
is the scene of their scientific labors, the Electro-
Medical and Surgical Institute. This great
and imposing building is an exposition of the
Specialist’s skill, as well as an impressive struc-
tural admission of their abilities. It is handsome,
pretentious, elegant; splendidly adorned exter-
nally and internally ; it is replete with all modern
facilities, its usefulness and necessity is charac-
terised by great popularity and professional
renown. This is a renown which has arisen from
the efforts of two scientific lives which have
never known one failure in the treatment of a
pathological disease, or in the elucidation of a
pathological problem.
To accurately describe so immense an Institu-
tion would infringe upon our limited space, but
to satisfy the curiosity of the reader, a few of its
chief features will be treated. The accompanying
illustration, etched by one of Sydney s leading
photo-artists, will show that the building is three-
storied, occupying a large area of ground, and is
pleasantly situated beside the most picturesque
floral domain of Sydney—Hyde Park. Here
thousands of people congregate for recreative
purposes during the hot summer months, and in
the calm of the twilight evenings, and as they rest
beneath the calm glory of the Southern stars,
their attention is attracted to the great Institute
adjacent, which tells them of a, way. of escape
from physical torment, and which points out to
them the paths to follow to obtain bodily peace
and mental rest.
The outward appearance of the Institute is
always superlatively grand, the various entab-
latures of blue and gold and silver which adorn
the numerous fagades, standing out in handsome
and well-assumed relief. Artistic taste and
execution dominates the entire external adorn-
ment upon which the names of the Specialists
stand out in letters of gold and blue. Ihe
base of the ‘building contains the Pharmacy,
known to the public as the Owl Dkug Stoke,
where the medicines required by the Institute are
dispensed. This department, which contains all
the drugs which a first-class Pharmacy requires,
is supervised by a member of the Pharmaceutical
Society of N.S. Wales, under whom is a staff of
assistants. All the drugs are imported by the
Institute. The Pharmacy is handsomely decorated
in blue and gold, the ceiling being a work of art
in the above charming colors. Plate-glass mirrors
gleam from the surrounding walls, while the front
of the Pharmacy, with its massive white marble
pillars and vestibule, calls for general admiration.
On entering the vestibule, through stained-glass
doorways, with its tessilated mosaic pavement,
we are prepared in a manner for better things
upstairs. On ascending these stairs, covered with
rich, soft Brussell’s carpeting, we find ourselves on
the first floor landing, which comprises the waiting-
room, the consulting-room, and laboratory. Ihe
telephone department is also on this floor, as well
as an office for a typewriter immediately in
attendance on the Specialists. The waiting-room is
quietly and tastily furnished, there being nothing
of a gaudy nature, but everything of the best and
choicest quality. A few good paintings adorn the
walls, whilst the mantelpiece is surmounted by an
elaborate mirror, which imparts a pleasing air to
the scene.
Leaving the waiting-room, we find ourselves
requiring minute observation, and one of the
finest instruments for this purpose of exploration,
manufactured by Arnold, of London, occupies a
conspicuous position on a moveable platform so
that it can be available for use during night or
day. Space will not admit of further details of
this department, but the order and cleanliness
patent to the most casual observer cannot fail to
strike the eye ; and we feel as we reluctantly qmt
this room that everything that can be done to
further scientific research has been accom-
plished.
On the next floor, approached by an elegant
flight of stairs, is situated the office of the
manager, with his staff, _ and the department
where the correspondence is carried out. ihis is,
of course, the most busy-looking room in the
building—if, indeed, any room can in a sense be
called more busy than another —where all are en-
gaged in faithfully carrying out their various
duties; still, one is struck with the active energy
which pervades the scene. Quite a number of type-
writers are at work, and these wonderful machines,
clicking beneath the nimble fingers of the clerks,
produce a sound indicative of jiheerful alacrity.
Some idea of the amount of correspondence car-
ried on in this department may be gained from the
fact that the seven type-writing machines are
actively in use. No such word as procrastination
is known. Quite recently one mail brought letters
from patients at Hong Kong, Suva (in the n lji
Group), Glasgow (in Scotland), Gibraltar, »south
Africa, and Newhaven (England). This will at
once demonstrate that the ends of the earth, so to
speak, are in communication with these celebrated
Sydney Specialists. The public has no idea of
the augmentation of the correspondence during
the last few years, but, when the above facts
are considered, the realisation of this assertion
will be comparatively easy.
All branches of the building are in communica-
tion by telephone with the staff of Specialists.
One important department is the Operative
Theatre, where the most delicate operations take
place daily. This chamber is replete with all the
most modern requirements tending to successful
and efficient operative skill.
The packing department is a wonder in itself ;
each week sees hundreds of bottles of valuable
medicines transferred through the post from the
Institute. So careful is the packing and trans-
fer executed that no breakages are ever reported,
and no one but the persons to whom they are ad-
dressed have the least knowledge of what the
package contains. This is a fact worth remem-
bering by those ivho do not care for publicity of
their ailments.
'
TRAMS STOP AT THE DOOR.
in the sanctum of the presiding Specialists,
Messrs. FREEMAN AND WALLACE. An
elegant apartment, indeed, with its numerous
desks, and glass-cases filled with all the most
modern requirements for surgical as well as
electrical work. A magnificent multiple-celled
battery catches the eye—by G-aiffe, of Paris—a
scientific expert in the manufacture of such
powerful machines, and another by Fleming, the
famous American Electrician. We cannot enter
into details of this chamber, but the hand of the
art decorator, as well as that of the artistic
upholsterer, is evident on all sides. We must not
omit to mention a most important factor here, we
allude to the Medical and Sur-
gical Diplomas which hang on
the walls, bearing testimony to
the skill of the Physician-in-
Chief, Dr. Wallace, and which
afford convincing proof that we
are in the presence of one in
every respect qualified for the
position which he has gained
in Medical and Scientific
circles. Certificates of Registra-
tion by the Government Medical
Board accompany these and attest
the legality of qualification, and
the rights of those possessing
them.
The analytical laboratory is de-
serving of special attention, as
here are conducted operations of
vital importance, both chemical
and microscopical, the various in-
struments and test-tubes neces-
sary for chemical analysis have
each their particular location here,
while retorts, sand baths and
chemical troughs, denote the
Analysis, whether qualitive or quantitive are
leading features in this establishment, so that
nothing escapes the watchful eye of the operator;
the “ spectrum ” even, being frequently called into
use, when a diagnosis respecting minute mineral
substances, such as arsenic, antimony, and mer-
cury are required.
We have been informed that mercury in no
shape or form is used in any preparation leaving
this establishment, and the importance of this
assertion will be readily understood by sufferers.
The microscope also finds its place here, as
chemical analysis is not deemed sufficient in bases
cA u
|M‘
ep
Cl'
&
CTRC
V
o
- #
TOW
«GICA
ITITutI
500-page Medical Work.
An Xmas Literary Present-
Since the inception of the Institute, it has been
famous for its medical publications. Several
editions of “Rescued at Last,” an exhaustive
and profusely illustrated work were sold out.
This treatise was followed by “ Clinical Experi-
ences,” of which several thousand volumes in
several editions were circulated throughout
Australia. Both these works were well re-
ceived by the publio and press, but useful
and instructive as they undoubtedly were, they
stand but poor comparison beside
the HANDSOME AND. VALUABLE
edition which is now in the press,
and which will shortly be placed
before the public. This work, of
which the accompanying illustra-
tion affords a faithful pictorial
view, will retain the title ‘ ‘Clinical
Experiences,” of which previous
work it is a greatly enlarged and
revised edition. Its revision is
according to the requirements of
the law, which forbids, in the
interest of the public, any men-
tion of certain classes of diseases
which are termed private.
This great work is handsome
in appearance, bound in blue cloth
with gold embossed reliefs, and
will make a pretty and useful addi-
tion to all household libraries. It
will be The Chief Book in any
house where it may enter. A
child may read it, the most
fastidious may peruse its pages,
while those who are ignorant of
the pathological conditions of
their systems may become enlightened by
reading its instructive letter-press. It con-
tains 500 pages and 100 illustrations, showing
the* internal organs in various positions ; together
with a description of the ravages of disease
affecting them. Several full-page plates show-
ing the muscular, nervous, and bone systems,
with twenty pleasing and artistic illustrations
of the exterior and interior of the Institute are
enclosed within the pages. These will impress
the reader with the vastness of the Institute,
and will show the various departments in which
the Specialists pursue their important studies.
In addition to a review of almost every disease
man is heir to, the book contains useful chapters
upon certain subjects, the information imparted
being of a most valuable nature. These chapters
teach the reader how to manage a sick-room,
what to do in cases of drowning, suffocation, burns
and scalds, accidents, snake-bites, sunstroke,
apoplexy, plague, etc., etc. There is no gauging
the benefit such a work must confer upon any
person fortunate enough to possess it.
A Gift to the People.
The Specialists of the Institute, recognising
that persons who live in the remote portions of
Australia, where medical aid is unavailable, re-
quire a work of this character, have resolved to
publish it and present it to their patrons Practi-
cally Free of Charge. It is a handsome literary
Christmas present to the patrons of the Institute
from its Proprietors, and copies of this most valu-
able work will be posted free to Any Address in
the Commonwealth on receipt of sixpence in
stamps. There is no question that it is a hand-
some and most instructive presentation book, the
best of its kind ever published in Australia, and
as orders are rapidly rolling in, no time should be
lost in applying for a copy of its first edition.
All applications should be sent direct to the
Institute, addressed to Messrs. FREEMAN
AND WALLACE, Australia’s Leading
Specialists.
m
m
m.
m
RICHARD WALLACE,
M.D., L.R.C.P., L.F.P.S., L.M.R.C.E.; late of
the Medical Staff, British Army; and
late Consulting: Staff, Homeopathic
Hospital, Melbourne.
A little while ago we spoke of Electricity as ail
adjunct to the medical treatment of diseases, and
as Messrs. FREEMAN AND WALLACE are
devout believers in the efficacy of Electricity as
a remedial agent, they have fitted up an entirely
new instalment of Electricity in connection with
medical baths. It has been found that in a variety
of chronic cases, when the condition of the patient,
so to speak, is one that the regular medical reme-
dies will not effect a cure, that something extra
is required in order to cailse the necessary absorp-
tion of the medical agents. For this reason Elec-
tricity has been found to act admirably in
conjunction with medicines. Messes. FREE-
MAN AND WALLACE were the first Specialists
to introduce moist and dry Electricity into their
business, the results of which have been very
gratifying to the patients and to the Specialists.
In cases of Indigestion or Dyspepsia, arising
in many instances from an altered condition of
the nerve centres supplying the Stomach, Pan-
creas, and Spleen, and extending to the Liver,
and very often implicating the Kidneys and
causing any amount of DEPRESSION OF
SPIRITS, with melancholic tendencies; Elec-
tricity again finds a large field for its benefi-
cial influences. Hence, when during an altered
condition of the nerves of digestion, the power to
dissolve the food, so that the nutritious portions
are rendered fit for absorption into the blood, is
interfered with, often to an alarming extent,
we can artificially supply the required nerve power
by introducing Electricity into the system.
This subject is so full of interest that much
more might be said concerning its influence, and
the book already referred to, “Clinical Experi-
ences,” contains, amongst many interesting sub-
jects, a chapter alone dedicated to Electricity.
Anyone suffering in a way which may lead him
to believe that Electricity may assist his vital
powers, should send for one of the famous Electric
belts which are kept in store by the Specialists,
and which have been guaranteed in accordance
with a most rigid electrical test. They will revive
the drooping spirits, re-strengthen the nervous
system, revitalize degenerating powers, and im-
part vigor and happiness where often the sufferer’s
case has appeared hopeless. The prices are
reasonable, and the electrical influences great and
permanently effective.
Professional Jealousy.
It is a fact that jealousy arises from a vivid
cause. Many members of the medical profession
of Sydney -evince their dislike of the modus
operandi of Specialists and their doctrine,
Specialism. It is the proudest moment in the
Specialist’s life when he knows that he has
caused a professional jealousy to exist through, his
superior knowledge and treatment of pernicious
and problematical diseases. The INSTITUTE
has always excelled in this superiority. A proof of
excellence is contained in the valuable testimonial of
Sib Dominic Cokrigan, Bart., late Physician to
the Queen, who knew personally one of the lead-
ing Specialists of the Institute.. Sir Dominic
says “I entertain a high opinion of Dr.
Wallace, both personally and in respect of his
professional attainments.” While such profes-
sional asservations are given, professional jealousy
is easily accounted for.
The Freeman & Wallace
Electro-Medical and
Surgical Institute
Comer of . . .
Elizabeth & Bathurst Sts., Sydney.
For privacy, patients may address “ F. & W.”
corner Elizabeth and Bathurst St., Sydney.
aar Mention this Paper when writing.


For that Spot!
The only guaranteed
Hair Restorer.
USE
apiffa
tia
K
N® DOUBT you have spent pounds in experimenting- with so-cailci
iiair restorers (?) without receiving any benefit from them.
ana naturally you are somewhat sceptical as to the merits
hairtoMdpatches!&c. lSPlaCed ° n the market f ° r restoring the
m
The proprietor of Capilla Hair Tonic is prepared
to treat _ you free of charge, just to convince you
that Capilla Hair Tonic will actually restore your
hair to all its old-time vigor. Could you wish
for any stronger guarantee than that ? Testimon-
ials and “ A Treatise on the Hair” posted free to
any address on receipt of post card or letter.
Capilla Hair Tonic is obtainable at all chi it i ts &
storekeepers 2/6 per bottle ; or by post B'2 ; full
course 17/2 from the Proprietor, W. RICHARDS,
14 Imperial Arcade, Sydney.
Take No Substitute.
Obtainable from G. Swift, 292, Collijis-st., Melbourne
Viet, price 3/- post 3/9, full course, 6 bot. post 19/2. ’
CHARLES READ & CO
3 Doors from
Strand Arcade.
Camden Buildings, 420 George St., Sydney.
Write for 80-page Illustrated Catalogue—Post Free.
A
SAVING
or
2 5
PER
CENT.
Charles Read & Co.
Diamond Marquise Ring.
If you want a.
Good, well-made
Ring 1 , set with
Choice Gems,
we can fit you
up from our
Stock, or make
any Design you
like.
Charles Read & Co.
5-Stone Half-Hoop Diamond
Ring, from £5 to £4O.
A
SAVING
OF
25
PER
CENT.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL, you enjoy your lunch
George and Market §t3. 9
SYDNEY.
APARTMENTS:
BEDROOM (single), 3s. per DAY.
BEDROOM (double), 6s. per DAY.
Single Room, with. Full Board, Cs per
day, or £2 2s. per week.
TERMS, The convenient
system of paying for the
room on arrival an J
meals as they are had.
When you come to Roberts’ Hotel
Dining Rooms ; and you not only
enjoy it, but it does you good as
well. There is always a large and
tempting variety of excellent food on
our menu, and on Fridays there is a
special fish luncheon for those who
want it in addition to the ordinary.
The luncheon is ready at twelve
o’clock sharp—from Is.—and there
is first-class attendance. Dinner and
tea from 5.30 to 7.30 —from Is.
upwards. Silver grill at work.
Dflfefivc my an Extra P&ir of Ircusers to every furchaser
p
BUSINESS
A$U>
PLEASURE
dsf
a#*
sdf
In Blue and Coloured Serges.
The splendid value of these Suits has
made us famous. “Justly Famous!"
you will say when you try one.
sd
THE
F.SJleyers, Manager..
Opposite Post Office, Bourke St. lie lb.
HEALTH, STRENGTH, HAPPINESS
HEALTH
Few recognise the BLISS of being in PERFECT
HEALTH, until SUDDENLY certain symptoms are
noticed, slight at first, but gradually RECURRING,
causing annoyance and SUFFERING, the individual
being forced to admit he is unwell, and finally compelled to acknowledge that PERFECT
HEALTH is a PRECIOUS BOON.
STRENGTH
What a blow to a man who discovers he is LOSING
his STRENGTH and VIGOR, and THAT perhaps at
a period when he most NEEDS ALL his physical
and mental capabilities to battle through life. They
are PRICELESS to him. He must by every means endeavor to REGAIN THEM.
HAPPINESS
Does happiness consist in Wealth? No. Who can
be happy without HEALTH and STRENGTH?
Wealth materially assists the endurance of sufferin<»-,
but PERFECT HEALTH, STRENGTH and VIGOR
should be the natural inheritance of EACH individual, and are invaluable gifts, tending to a
happy existence and long life. THE HEALTHY, STRONG MAN CAN contend, and SUCCESS-
FULLY, with the billows of life. BUT HOW CAN THE WEAKLY AND SICKLY?
Health, Strength and Happiness
can be ALL REGAINED.
If constant study, combined
with intelligence and a
thorough practical knowledge of the many ailments to which the human subject is a victim, THEN I SHOULD
be able to achieve that result AFTER THIRTY YEARS’ PRACTICE, enabling me to bring to bear unlimited
and VARIED EXPERIENCE in all ACUTE and CHRONIC CASES of NERVOUS EXHAUSTION, CHEST
SKIN and SPECIAL DISEASES OF MEN AND WOMEN. PERFECT SYSTEM OF ACCURATE DIAGNOSIS
AND TREATMENT BY MAIL FOR COUNTRY PATIENTS A SPECIAL FEATURE.
Dr. WATSON’S Fee is Strictly Moderate. He recognises tlie fact that the Public is
prepared to pay a Reasonable Fee for Assured Skill in the treatment of Complaints of
whatever character.
Consultations from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. Daily.
ABSOLUTELY FREE.
A “ GUIDE TO DIAGNOSIS X,” Posted Free, 1/-
DR. H. S. WATSON,
(Please Mention
This Paper.)
137 ELIZABETH ST., HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
“ON OUR SLECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 6s. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Latest -Move Lft
fsd
m
Mill
zmm
Km.
m
%*®wi fin
mil iw
asdf
w AL\.Y/tAH(RS
d
fd
BBmHH c. <*. g r . r hi s
. Sole agent Tor
/l u S TR ALAS IA. WAT si) CHAMBERS
MELBOURNE
C f\
(cwfoKy
.
m
ES’
"-^nctusm
The VOLCANIC
DERATING
MACHINE
& 5
m
W. JAMES, Proprietor
A GREAT SAVING
. . TO . .
Hotelkeepers, Cafe Proprietors, etc.
JSrated Waters of the highest quality
produced with the utmost rapidity
WITHOUT SKILLED LABOR.
Absolutely the best and simplest
Machine in the market.
• PRICES GREATLY REDUCED •
Write for descriptive Pamphlets with testimonials
from people who have used the Machine for years.
/Office : 101 QUEEN ST., MELBOURE.
\ Dep6t : 130 CECIL ST., SOUTH MELBOURNE.
mrju^
£
BEFFCCTIVC|
SUCHTiNFLMffS BfESiiHH
Weak Eyes Dumbs F?
€eeeqs
■ SSI CEORCC ST"
rafetow«u*Htp laairaM
EGD. LABEL.
The Greatest Discovery of Modern Times
ALL EYE COMPLALNTS
S ""“hr ■from any cause whatever.
POQF’Q —.
Celebrated Eye Lotion
A CERTAIN CURE for Sandy Blight, Granulations, Bunged Eyes,
Dimness of Sight, Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids, Weak Eyes caused by
Dust, Sun-Glare, Overwork, &c., Swelling Blight resulting from stings
of flies and insects.
Used until equal success On the Eyes of Cattle, Sheep, Poultry, &c.
Largely used by itifle-Shooters and Literary Men.
Testimonials from leading Commercial and Professional Men throughout Australia.
Sole Proprietor . . .
H. A,
P AQljr Dispensing
nv/OCi, Chemist,
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers. 82F Beware of Imitations.
531 George St., Sydney
= High-Class Smoking Mixture
iiia lii ; iff
HAS NO EQUAL IN QUALITY.
MIX.D. MEDIUM.
In £lb. or Jlb. AIR-TIGHT TINS.
FULL.
DR. J. A. AUSTIN Writes : “ After a long and fruitless quest for an ideal smoking mixture, I have at
last alighted on the famous ‘ ARDATH,’ which is perfectly free from the crudeness and asperities of inferior
tobacco so injurious to the heart and nerves, and renders smoking a harmless luxury."
If unobtainable at local Tobacconists, write to
M. RUTTY & Co., 68 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Manufacturers: ARDATH TOBACCO CO.. 44 Worship Street, London.
[4-10]
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
Wonderful Value a Packet of Eight Different Articles,
comprising Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Casket (a good
trick), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Coin
and Card Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard
Fish (gives definition of your character), That Wonderful
Cinematograph or Book of Living Pictures, Mafeking
Grub (or nerve-strengthener), That side-splitting Look
and Laugh Glass, and, last of all, The Spider and the Fly
(an ingenious mechanical toy). Instructions enclosed.
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralia Free on receipt of 2s. fid.
X
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
710 Gearge-street, SYDNEY,
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
f
Rider Agents wanted
throughout Australia,
one in each town to ride and
exhibit 1902 Model Cycle.
Finest Grades, £2 6s to £4
10s, carriage paid.
’oo & ’Ol Models £i 5s to £2los.
Great Factory Clearing Sale at
HALF FACTORY COST.
Every Machine fully guaranteed
We have a wonderfully liberal
proposition for good Rider Agents.
'Write at once for our bargain
’list and Special Offer using
” 214 d stamp or id postcard.
ADDRESS DEPT, 152-C
Meat! Cycle Co., Chicago. U.S.A.


Beethoven on the EJolian
Kreutzer Sonata, Op. 47; Ada- !
gio Sostenuto, Adante con
Variazioni, Presto
Moonlight Sonata, Op. 27
Adelaide
Coriolan Overture
Egmont Overture
Leonore Overture No. 3
Namensfeier Overture
Prome. heus Overture
Die Weihe des Hauses Over-
ture
Konig Stephan Overture
Konig Stephan Triumphal
March
Fidelio, Abscheulicher
Fidelio Potpourri
Trauermarsch
Turkish March from Ruins of
Athens
Andante Favori, Op. 35
Hane.ujah Chorus from Mount
of Olives
Klavier-Concert No. 3, Op. 37 ;
Allegro con brio, largo, Alle-
gro Molto
Klavier-Concert No. 3, Op. 37 ;
Allegro con brio, rondo Alle-
gro
Klavier-Concert No. 4, Op 58 ;
Allegro Moderato, Rondo
Vivace
Nocturne, Op. 42; Allegro,
Minuet, Andante quasi Alle-
gro
Septet, Op. 20 ; Adagio, Allegro
con brio
Serenade, Op. 23 ; Andante
Serenade, Op 41; Scherzando,
Adagio, Allegro Vivace
Sextuor, Op. 81 ; Allegro con
brio Adagio, Allegro
Sonata No. 1 ; Allegro, Ada-
gio
Sonata, Op 2, No. 2; Largo
Sonata, Op. 2, No. 3 ; Allegro
Assai, Scherzo and Trio
Sonata, Op. 10, No 1 ; Allegro
Molto, Adagio Molto
Sonata, Op. 10, No. 3 ; Minu-
etto and Trio, Largo
Sonata, Op. 13 (Pathetique) ;
Grave, Allegro Molto, Alle-
gro, Adagio
Sonata, Op. 14, No. 7, Allegro
Sonata, Op. 22 ; Adagio
Sonata. Op. 26; Marcia Fune-
bre, Andante and Var, 1 and
5, Scherzo and Trio
Sonata, Op 31, No. 3 ; Allegro
Sonata, Op. 49, No. 2 ; Tempo
di Menuetto
Sonata, Op. 8r ; Les Adieux,
I’ Absence, Le Retour
Symphcny No. 1 ; Adagio Mol-
to, Allegro, Andante Cana-
bile, Menuetto Adagio, Alle-
gro V.vace
Symphony No. 2 ; Adagio
Molto, Allegro co” brio. Lar-
ghetto, ■'iaherzo, Allegro
Molto £
df
HE STATEMENT that the /Eolian will
play any piece of music ever composed
is so broad and sweeping that it many
times fails to impress the reader with
its wonderful significance. As a means
of affording a better idea of the enormous
repertoire of the iEolian we present herewith
partial list of the works of a single composer,
BEETHOVEN, that are included in the
music catalogue.
These are all arranged from the full orchestral
scores, complete and unabridged. Many of them
are never attempted upon the piano, and are played
only by large orchestras ; yet it is possible for any
one to play them on the correctly, and with
all the changes of tempo and expression.
Visitors always welcome. If unable to call, send for
catalogue C, giving full description.
skw 3r - i - -‘ m m
.tx '
Henry M. Birge & Co.,
Sole Agents for Australasia
323 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
The fEolian is sold at no other Address
in Sydney.
Paris exfcibition, 1900. —Britisl) Awards
The Only
Grand
Prix
highest yiward
ever made!
• • • •
FOR TOILET SOAP
HAS BEEN AWARDED TO
(Established 1789.)
\Mcr,
kttu>
BP
Appointing
to
ufl
JR
Hi mp
fier majesty Cbe Queen am fi.R.b. Cbe Prince ol Wales.
20 HI6HEST AWARDS
from 1851 to 1800 inclusive.
The Ruined Homestead.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A settler near by told me the tale as I looked
into the ruined brick dwelling, with its roof and
windows gone, and nothing left but a smoke-
blackened shell and charred remains.
* * * •
Fitzpatrick had land-hunger in a very bad form.
It was a craving inherited from an ancestor who
left Ireland for his own—and, incidentally, for
Ireland’s —good, and who died a few months after
arriving in Australia. The son felt -his craving
gratified when he could lease thousands of acres
for almost nothing. He was pleased with the
rush, of men to the goldfields, as it created a
demand for his stock. • But, when the miners de-
manded land, and selected on his property, hiS
feelings quickly changed towards them. He fully
understood that to be a thief and to leave no legal
proof was to be honest in the eyes of the law, but
his neighbors just as fully understood the distinc-
tion as himself ; so they broke each others’ fences,
stole each others’ grass, impounded each others’
stock—and were honest men.
But Fitzpatrick was the slow gainer. He was
feeling like a victorious general, until one
Gammer arrived. Gammer formed the eight
remaining selectors into a secret League,
that quickly put a new face on affairs. One
morning, a farmer had a chain of fencing
broken. Fitzpatrick awakened the next day
to find nine chains down, and nine times as
many of his stock in the pound. The shock made
peace for some time. When the rabbits came lie
tried a new dodge. Wire-netting fences were ex-
pensive, so he erected the costliest in the district
on the boundaries adjoining his neighbours, and
sent in half the bill. If was paid without a
murmur, and. he found that Gammer had formed
a co-operative society for this particular purpose.
Another few months’ peace, and a new idea.
Fitzpatrick became very friendly with five of his
countrymen who were selectors and went to church
regularly, his attentions reaching a climax when,
instead of impounding some stock which had
broken through a genuine break, he sent them
back with a polite note, saying he had mended
the fence.
* * * *
Gammer alone saw the drift of the new move.
He called the little company together, balanced
up the accounts, and dissolved the society. Then
he cast round for some method to show the need
of reforming the society. O’Brien had a large
family and his cattle were poor. Gammer offered
him the use of his land to fatten them, and their
market value when they had fattened, and in
return he would put the same number in O’Brien’s
paddocks. The unusual generosity of the offer
did not strike O'Brien, rather to Gammer’s sur-
prise. In a fortnight the selectors were electrified
by the news that Fitzpatrick had impounded 30
of O’Brien’s cattle. The farmers could not under-
stand the attack, least of all the Irishmen, for
Fitzpatrick, only three months before, had sent
back O’Brien’s cattle when he had every right to
impound them. By common consent they all
looked to Gammer.
“Perhaps he thought they were mine,” said
Gammer.
“ But why should he want to ’pound yours ? ”
“ He wants to get rid of me.”
“ What for ? ” asked O’Brien.
“ As a preliminary to getting rid of you.”
“ That’s a loi! ” shouted two Irishmen.
“Do you remember Burke, Jones, Anderson,
and Smith ? ”
“ He gave them a fair price, anyhow.”
“Look here, mates,” said Gammer, “we’ve
been here now eight years. When —until three
months ago—when did Fitzpatrick do one of us a
good turn? You know how we stopped him
harrying us. So he saw he’d have to smash our
society, which he has done by being friendly to
you Irish. He has attacked me first because I
was the president.”
“The society was an insult to an honorable
jintleman,” said Shaughnan.
“I propose that we bring our club together
again,” continued Gammer, “for our mutual
protection. If you don’t, the Lord help you for a
lot of d d jackasses ! ”
“Really I don’t think we have anything to
fear,” said one Johnston.
“ What about my cattle? ” asked O’Brien.
“Fitzpatrick will return them with an apology,”
said Gammer. ....
‘ r l’m agin the society, thin,” said O’Brien.
And he left the room, the rest silently following
him.
Such was Fitzpatrick’s fear of Gammer, that he
was afraid to make the first move alone. .Then he
profited by Gammer’s methods, gave his neigh-
bors to understand that they were to be free
from molestation, and, giving little aids as earnests
of his intention, formed them and himself into an
informal union against Gammer. Whereupon
began the battle of mutual injury, with the advan-
tage, on the whole, on the side of Fitzpatrick,
who grew bitter with malice as he recognised that
the weaker man was the better, and, with equal
opportunities, would have driven him ignomini-
ously off the field. It became a dogged trial of
patience, each Waiting for the other to do some-
thing that would send him to gaol. Fitzpatrick
had calculated oh getting Gammer out in a year ;
three had gone with no apparent result. The
neighbors looked on almost indifferently, feeling
secure in Gammer’s doggedness, and eased their
consciences by trying to think that, after all, it
was a personal matter between Gammer and
Fitzpatrick.
Gammer knew that an appeal for mercy would
be as useless as degrading, and saw ruin in front
of him. He had collected a mob of his enemy’s
sheep for the pound one morning, when Fitz-
patrick came up to him ; he instantly thought of
goading him into committing an assault. Ap-
parently he was working at the fence ; really he
was coolly telling Fitzpatrick that he was a liar
and a coward and a fool, for a smarter man could
have got him out in six months. Fitzpatrick
turned livid with fury, but in a flash he saw
Gammer’s purpose, and with a laugh he turned
and rode away.
Two days afterwards a hot northerly gale was
blowing, rolling up great clouds of dust, and
rocking the gum-trees like saplings. Farmers,
unwilling to work in the heat, lolled round watch-
ing the horizon anxiously, sniffing occasionally for
tire. Then it came—at first a faint blue haze,
mixed with red dust. Gradually, but all too
rapidly, the haze became yellow, then turned
black and soared higher, while the smell of the
burning bush was distinct. Men from miles away
came galloping in the direction of the fire.
* * * •
vine of the first to start was Fitzpatrick; he took
a short cut through a thickly-wooded gully on the
east of his property, passing Gammer’s house,
which he saw was deserted. Reaching the top of
the rise, he guessed the fire was about four miles
away, and at the same moment he saw Gammer
on a very- tired horse, galloping up the slope
towards him. He instantly suspected that
Gammer had started the fire to involve those
who had deserted him and his enemy in one com-
mon disaster; he promptly determined to drag
him before his fellow-selectors. Gammer looked
up, and seeing Fitzpatrick on a fresh horse, called
out “Ride for your life and collect as many men
as you can to burn a trail ! ”
“You know we daren’t burn a trail in this
wind.”
“We’ll have to risk it.”
“You mean I will—with most to lose.”
With a look of contempt, Gammer spurred his
horse to pass, but Fitzpatrick reached out and
dragged him to the ground by his collar, only to
be furiously thrown by the leg off his horse. The
next instant they were struggling grimly in the
thickening smoke, as their horses galloped wildly
homewards. The pent-up hate engendered by
years of silent feud now found physical vent,
quickly rising to animal lust of murder. They
strained and bit at each other like beasts, forget-
ting everything but the desire to see blood.
They were in a slight, damp depression, where
the grass was green. The wind had driven the
fire round them unseen, and was uniting it in an
unbroken ring; it was creeping nearer, drying
the green grass as it advanced. The dead trees
were blazing in roaring fury, dropping waving
curtains of sparks into the gale, but the men were
deaf. The leaves of the green trees curled,
shrivelled and fell about them in showers. A
heavy gust blew a tongue of flame almost into
their faces, when Fitzpatrick’s arm broke with a
snap, and he fell witli a groan. Gammer knelt on
his chest and clutched him by the throat to
strangle him. Another gust blew a sheet of
flame and sparks over him, compelling him to re-
lease his hold. He rose swayingly. An undu-
lating sea of fire was rolling over the brow of the
hill ; another was rolling in the valley—to the
right and to the left of them. Fitzpatrick rose
and staggered three steps up the hill, then stag-
gered back and fell at Gammer’s feet. In another
half minute Gammer fell across his enemy’s body,
and a heavy squall spread a sheet of fire across
them. It was their shroud.
VIC.
W. BRENTA.
M‘Shandy’s Promotion.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“One of you fellows,” said Snell, “was talking
about the shifting, every year or so, of Wesleyan
parsons Well, it ought to be the same with the
police. It’s a good thing in some ways for a trap
to know the run of a place, but there’s a lot of
other things to be considered. You can’t well
expect a bobby to take proceedings against the pub-
lican who gives him his daily beer and a handsome
Christmas-box regularly ; or against the baker
whose son is engaged to his cross-eyed daughter,
and who takes all his eggs at top prices. Also,
suppose the butcher’s wife sits up night after
night with Mrs. Robert during an illness.
Oughtn’t that to preserve the butcher from bein.'’
troubled by the law for any offence short of
murder ?
“When I lived at Tangletown, there was a
policeman there named M'Shandy—a very looney-
looking chap to be trusted with a revolver. A
friend and I were at the only pub. in the town
one night, and had a beer or two with Mac ; then
the three of us left together. Mao’s couple of
long-sleevers seemed to have got to what brains
he had—anyhow, he couldn’t stand liquor any
more than a kid. The police-station was opposite
a butcher’s shop, on the hill, and the butcher had
his father-in-law living with him. Now, this old
man was in the habit of getting up occasionally
during the night and going out into the street
to smoke and moon about, and the front
door of the shoo was left unlocked for him.
My mate and I said “Good night” to the trap,
but we were not off home by a long way. Old
Nash had some good nectarines, and we were
going to raid his orchard. So we got into the
shadow of the fence, and waited for the coast to
clear. It was moonlight, and we saw Mac.,
after another turn down the road, s top on
the footpatli near the butcher’s shop, and,
after a bit, go tip-toeing to the door. He
hadn’t been long in the place, and was
not acquainted with the old boy’s habits.
Then he stooped to the keyhole. All at once, the
door opened from within ; there was a rough-and-
tumble and a shot went off. We ran over and
found the trap and poor old Bloomer spread out
‘in holts.’ The people in the house were stirring,
so we got-Mac. up, collared his pistol, and cleared
with him, over behind the stables. Then there was
a hue and cry over the way ; Mac. had just got
into the station, when there was a call for him.
The butcher’s place had been attacked by burglars,
and old Bloomer, who fought desperately with
one, had been thrown down and sorely injured.
“Mac. got his horse, rode out straight away,
and didn’t come back until next night. Then,
after a snack, he was off again, and for a week he
was out night and day, but it was no use. The
local Progress Committee, of which I was hon. sec.,
brought Mac.’s energy in the matter under the
notice of the inspector and he got a ‘stripe,” and,
from the townspeople, a purse of sovereigns.
“After that it was my turn, and Constable
Mac. summoned just whom I wished. For
instance, he was going to have ‘ Bill the Fisher-
man ’ for drunk and disorderly, and some of Bill’s
friends asked me to use my influence—it had got
to be known that I had influence —on his behalf.
So I went to Mac. and asked ‘ Are you going to
summon old Bill ? ’ ‘ Yes ! ’ said he. ‘ Right you
are ’ said I. ‘ You do ! ’ He didn’t. Next, I
heard that Mac. had a ticket for a poor devil of a
saw-mill hand who had got tanked and had cursed
freely in a public place. So I went and asked
him if he was going to charge the man. ‘ What
do you say n bout-it ? ’ said he. I said ‘ no,’ and it
was no. After that my mate and I used to carry
on top-ropes, and people wondered why we were
allowed-to.
“ But at last M‘Shandy was promoted to Mel-
bourne, and he was banqueted. Everybody had a
say, and I reminded the company of the way
Mac. had worked to unearth the burglar who had
so nearly done for old Bloomer. My remarks
were received with ‘prolonged cheers,’ but I
believe I was the only one who was really sorry
that Mac. was leaving. Somehow, I have not felt
of much consequence since.”
N.S.W.
YARRUM.


I. 11l g ■'»
/
ill
«3SSS»
r
.EANJtK-
ds
fd
I
H
m
'*so '
**
OUT
2
INFMJENZA
INDI6ESTI9N.
lriVf*TK»BkH
i.
THE enormous success of this preparation the world over is the best
possible proof of its great worth. Millions use Bile Beans annually,
and thousands say they are an undoubted specific for biliousness,
indigestion, constipation, bad blood, pimples, piles, costiveness, dizziness,
fullness after eating, influenza, rheumatism, debility, and for a general
toning of the system. Obtainable at all chemists and storekeepers, 13|d.
per large box; or from the Australian Depot, Bile Bean Manufacturing
Co., 39 Pitt-street, Sydney.
TRADE
FOX
MARK
FOX Bros. & Co., Ltd., warn the public that their Trade Mark consists
ONLY OF THE WORD FOX
which is a guarantee of soundness of material and quality of dye of all
Worsted Coatings, Serges & Tweeds
on which it is stamped.
As the result of many years of experience . . .
FOX’S PURE INDIGO DYE
is recognised as the best in the market. All FOX’S Standard Cloths are
stamped every two yards on the back—
FOX
PURE INDIGO
and without this stamp are not genuine. These celebrated serges can be
obtained from the leading Tailors and Drapers throughout the Colonies.
rox BROS & Co., Ltd., WELLINGTON, SOMERSET, England,
THE
‘PLUM’
we
THE
‘PLUM’
("'GENTLEMEN.— This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. 6d.
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Prick
f Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21a.
\ Single Razot, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 308.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part op the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
MELLIN’S
FOR INFANTS
FOOD
AND INVALIDS.
Is adapted for use from birth.
Send for Pamphlet and Samples to GOIJ.IN & CO.. 562-4, Bourke Street, Melbourne,
172, Clarence Street, Sydney, Grenfell Street, Adelaide, and Wellington.
Uellln’s Food Company for Australia and New Zealand, Ltd., 56, Cannon Street, London, Eng.
Buenos Ayres.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I want to talk of Bunniz—
Its girls with jewelled arms,
Fairer than star or sun is
Ah, dusky Creole charms 1
The girls ’longside the Plata
Are girls of shinin’ gold :
I’ve kept one’s scented garter
These ten years, so’s the mould
O’ their fair limbs shan’t ever
Fade out of my old eyes.
O, Bunniz girls, I’d never
Swap you for Paradise!
With stoker-men a-graftin’
I went yon southward way ;
Our cross-heads an’ the shaftin’
Forever seemed to say:
“ O Bunniz ! wait for Bunniz,
Its bosoms and its wine—
There is no land where fun is
To lick the Argentine ! ”
I waited for you, city,
Beneath the spear-marked stars —
O Bunniz girls, the pity
I left your sweet guitars !
’Twas wool we went a-seekin’,
From Boston-town that year ;
Our souls hung dry and creakin’
For woman’s lips and beer !
The inner “ roads” lapped quiet
Against our plates o’ brown—
O loves of Hell!—the riot
We made in Bunniz-town !
I hear the soft mandolines
Still twangin’ in my brain,
Across the sea’s red bowlines
I see them girls again !
Wool—wool we struck in plenty,
In Constitucion mart —
With rich aguardiente
To warm each seaman’s heart.
And Bunniz opera dancers,
I seem to see you still;
Like squads of joyous lancers
You charge my breast at will !
0 Colon maids a-toein’— '
Somehow, I see you yet,
Your bosoms round and glowin’
Like fields of violet !
O Bunniz breasts, I’m dreamin’
Of you this blessed day ;
O lips of fire, I’m schemin’
To wing me back your way.
I see your bright eyes flashin’—
The old cabildo where
They fined me stiff for mashin’
Some Dagoes with a chair !
O, broadly-flowin’ Plata,
Perhaps I’ll come ere long
To steal one more round garter,
And hear one more sweet song :
0, Bunniz girls, I’m dreamin’
Of you right here and now ;
Oh, Dark Eyes, watch the seamen,
I’ll join them yet, I vow !
And swingin’ by ’Donado
Some day or night I’ll go—
I’ll drive the screws of Trade-O
Past Montevideo !
With triple screws a-batter,
Around the headlands brown,
With engines all a-cl atter,
I’ll hew the tall leagues down !
GRANT HERVEY.
On the Teremakau.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The wildest river in Maoriland is the Teremakau.
Flashing out of the everlasting snows, tearing
down through pine or black birch forests, past
rata-crested cliffs, the river strikes the sea between
Kumara and Greymouth, and on the 49 miles of
shingle there the beachcombers work still. In ’6B
they were an army, and strange men all. Nine
days out of ten the rain lashed and the wind
buffeted them. The boom of the surf was always
in their ears. Generally they were hatless and
silent men ; if they talked at all it was to them-
selves, or to ghosts unseen of others, but whose
presence they felt more palpable day after day,
year after year.
But “Hairy Bill” and “The Bald ’Un” lived
together and were sociable. They were too
humanly bad to feel any influences of external
nature. Hairy Bill was a thief and a ruffian from
childhood, self-excluded from all decency. Stand-
ing before the fire,, a brand in his hand big enough
to fire a city (it was to light his pipe), he would
have served a painter for one of Dante’s folk
plucked out of Caen a.
“ Loathly he were to look upon,
Liker a devil than a man.”
A gorilla’s cheek-bones and jaw, blubber lips,
claw hands on arms of tremendous length, and on
all exposed surfaces such a “ matted fell ” as St.
Brandan saw on Judas Iscariot.
These two worked together, making, like the
rest, from £2 to £8 a week. A pound went
for tucker, and every week’s end The Bald
’Un spent the balance of his share in liquor. On
a Sunday afternoon, pretty well remembered on
the beach, The Bald ’Un came back to the tent
with the shakes, and mad for more liquor. All
through the camp could be heard his “ Strike me! ”
and “Blind me!” “You wouldn’t part a
bloomin’ quid ? Give us a half-caser, then, or a
deener.” The responses of the hairy one were
unchanging and unmistakable.
With twilight Tire Bald ’Un’s whining died
down like the yelping of a tired pup, and. through
the early night there was silence in the tent and
the camp. Soon after midnight two shots were
heard. Half-a-minute later a score of tent-flaps
were -flung back, and as many men rushed to the
tent. Inside was disorder. On the earth along-
side Hairy Bill’s bupk. a bit of a blood soak.
“ It’s plain as a picter,” said Topsawyer. “ Bill
wouldn’t part, and The Bald ’Un gits up with a
mouth like a lime-kiln and a throat like a funnel
and goes for his plant. He knifes Bill, and Bill
out with his-'gun ’ and fires. They’re out now,
and God help The Bald ’Un if Bill gets up.”
All hands went out on the tracks. They were
curious to know what might have happened if
Bill had got up. Traoking was easy most of the
wayy for though The Bald ? Un ran lights Hairy
Bill s great hoofs dinted deep on all spongy and
mossy surfaces. Evidently he wobbled as he
went, and some old hands from the other side
said the right foot dragged. The trackers made
good headway, but they were not in at the death.
The story of that is told by others.
* l * * * .
In the town of Kumara Sandy Brown was
letting daylight and fresh air into his bar, a
little before six, when a queer man rushed in on
him. “He’d no hat, and looked as if the devil
had plucked him ready for the fire. ‘ Give us a
brandy,’ says he, and another, and, without asking
if I had a mouth oil myself, went off like a red-
shank towards the river. An hour later, in comes
another; looked as if the devil had tapped him.
But ’twas t’other chap had done it, and this one
after him red hot. ‘ Hire me a horse, ’ says he, and
flings down a shammy heavy enough to cover two.
I gets out the mailman’s horse, and hoists him
into the saddle. He belts him round the ribs with
a ivaddy and off. There was blood on the-bar
where he stood, and I’ve got that shammy yet.”
Across the Teremakau, on the road from
Kumara to Greymouth (where now is the railway
bridge) ,a wire cable had been stretched at that
time, and a suspension cage, which would' hold
six on a pinch, made hourly trips. At a quarter
past seven that morning the cage was on the
southern bank. It was a morning of wet driving
mist, which shut out everything 50 yards away.
Time was nearly up when out of the mist came the
hat less man. “Is she startin’,” said he, and the
driver answered, “d’rec’ly.”
The Bald ’Un took his seat shivering. “I
reckoned he’d got ’em bad, ” said the driver, “ and
he thought they were after him in the fog.
I sounded the whistle and my Hand was on the
lever, when there was a “ coo-ee !” back along'the
track. Covein the cage jumps up, dancin’ mad—
‘Let her go! Let her go!’ he yells I knows
he’s mad, and waits, thinkin’ he’d be better of
some company, anyhow, an’ by this time I could
hear the horse’s hoofs cornin’’fast. Out o ! the fog
he comes, bad enough lookin’ to scare a bishop.
All the r!ght leg of his - breeches reeked with
blood, and blood behind his eyes, too. He goes
right in. I starts her, and off she shoots into the
fog, Half-a-minute later the rope slacks, sudden,
the gear races, and I knows that something’s
happened in that fog.”
On the other side of theriver was a boy who hooked
off and on, started the cage and took the money.
He felt the vibration Of the. start, he noted the
sudden'stop. The roar of the river drowned all
other sound, and the mist w_as ; swathed close about
the mystery in mid stream. But there was a gale
stirring on the mountains, and descending, it
brought rain driving fiercely aslant, it tore the mist
asunder, and of what was disclosed then, thus
spoke the boy : . • -
“ When the mist broke I could see her sagging
the wire down fair in centre, and the hauling line
cast off ; but how that could be, dear knows, for
no two men could lift the weight of it. She
bobbed there as if they. were, dancing a step to
each other inside (maybe they were). -Then out
came the sun, with the rain still falling,
and shone along the cable to the cage and
stopped there. Dear!- but the river was
roaring loud. The door of - the cage Which
was towards me opened wide then, and there was
a man the color of the dead, oifly blood ran down
one cheek from a hole in the side of his head.
I Tighty unaisy he was, and before I could bid him
stop back, makes a jump to the cable, and comes
toward, me SO, hand over hand. Then, and the
sun still shining, the other man comes to the door,
and I knew why his mate had jumped so, for he
was bad company that other. The hair and the
beard of him were red, and the sunshine-made
them fiery. Bigger than the cage he looked as he
stood there, and the eyes of him, they were fit to
kill by themselves just. The white man, like a
boiled man he looked, came on, and I called to
him, ‘hurry.’ And then the red man took a
pistol from his belt and fired. The white man
let go one hand with a yell, and I fell howling on
my knees, for it was awful. It may have been a
second or an hour when the red man fired again.
The river was roaring, roaring. Then Jem Blake
set the whistle blowing on the other side, and left
it so. It called me louder than the river roaring,
and I looked up, and the red man stood with his
hand on the door of the cage, his chin on his
breast, and his big head nodding, and the revolver
pointing down to the river roaring. Then he
straightened himself as if he should step back and
be saved, but the Devil was in the river that
morning. I saw one foot of him trying to go
back, but the other it must come forrad, and it
dragged him. His big head came out, he let go
the door. He reached about with one hand and
the other, and staggered. Next I knew was Jem
Blake had stopped whistling, and the river still
roaring.”
The cage ran again next day, and a constable
was amongst the passengers, but he did not
organise a search or send for the coroner. Like all
other men about those parts, he knew well
enough that the Teremakau gives up no dead.
F.M.
“ Veteran ” : Screw-tnaker Chamberlain
made a “bloomer” when he tried to justify
Kitchener’s proceedings by the example of the
Germans in France in ’7O. The Germans didn’t
want to annex France. They simply occupied,
and tried to hold, 30,000 miles of French territory
—a strip 300 miles long by about 100 wide, to
five them a safe road to Paris, and keep the
'rench armies at a distance. They didn’t go in
for promiscuous farm-burning, nor did they
form concentration camps, or destroy crops
or forage for fear of their falling into the
hands of the French armies. They were
brutal sometimes, but not systematically so.
They had 450,000 men to hold their 30,000 square
miles of country, while Chamberlain’s man,
Ketchener, only has 250,000 men to pretend to
hold 160,000 square miles, together with Cape
Colony, Natal,, &c. —an area totalling about
another 300,000. The Germans in France had
thus 15 men to every square mile they held, and
all were available if wanted, while Ketchener has
only about (at most) two men to three square
miles, and half of them are guarding concentra-
tion camps, boxed up in blockhouses, or garrison-
ing insignificant townships. There is this material
difference between the two cases. The Germans
simply cared for their army, and wanted to keep
it safe till it could finally beat the French forces.
Chamberlain and Ketchener care very little for
the British army. They want to hold on to such
scraps of territory as they have, even at the cost of
exterminating the population ; hence the differ-
ence of method. It is to be a fight to a finish, of
which no man can see the end. What is plain is
that it will ruin Chamberlain and Ketchener,
however it goes.


Gives Muscular Strength
and Nerve Power
Takes Out Every Impurity from the Blood, Makes the Blood Rich and
Red, Removes Depression, Imparts Vigor and New Life.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
&
Mr. Thomas Monroe, of Oriel, Albion, near Brisbane, Queensland, is well
known in football and athletic circles. He has to keep his system in perfect
condition all the time. Bead what he says about Dr. Ayer’s Family Medicines.
“ I have used Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla to restore the appetite and give tone and strength to
the whole system, and I have been greatly benefited by doing so.
“ I have also obtained marked relief from the asthma by the use of Dr. Ayer’s Cherry Pec-
toral. These two remedies are well known throughout Queensland as thoroughly reliable
family medicines.”
So great is the reputation of Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla as a remedy for healing
the sick that it is called everywhere
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
If you are sick, you certainly should give Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla a thorough
trial. It cannot fail to help you, for it cures the blood first of all. Then your
nerves become steady and strong and the hot weather of summer does not affect
you. All depression is overcome. Remember, it is a wonderful medicine for
the children, too, when they are thin and feeble, pale and languid. Put your
confidence in it, for there is no family medicine in the world its equal.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Purifies and Enriches the Blood.
AYER’S PILLS cure dyspepsia j strengthen the stomach.
A POLICY FOR TH€
COMMONWEALTH-
Being a series of articles re-
printed from “The Bulletin,”with
an appendix dealing with the
Fiscal Question.
Price, 6d.; posted, Od.
fd
f
The Universal Remedy for Acidity oi the Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Our©
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
df
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
I Wk
Sold Throughout the World.
N.8.-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA,
df
£8 XOs.
Tel., 2710 Redfern
This Special No. 3 Sulk}'
with Wing Boards well
adapted for country roads
and hard usage. Will give
univeral satisfaction.
Pittman’s Commonwealth
Steam Coach Works
176 and 178 Morehead St, Redfern.
THE THREE CAUSES:
BECAUSE Pittman’s Vehicles are articles of real worth
and true merit.
BECAUSE they are always in ready demand.
BECAUSE when their superior qualities have once been
demonstrated, you will have no other
than Pittman’s Vehicles.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue and Price List.
Full Description & Prices of Vehicles free on application
A WONDERFUL MEDICIN
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
1.1 OR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Costiveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX.”
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion: bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieine in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Bold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is and 2s Od each.
me Bulletin Publications.
Price Pour Shillings and Sixpence.
the Bulletin Story Book.
THE 'BULLETIN STORY BOOK will be the
best book of stories- published in Australia.
It is culled from all the stories and sketches
which have appeared in The Bulletin during
twenty years.
HTHE BULLETIN STORY BOOK will contain
A picked stories by Albert Dorrington,
Louis Becke, Henry Lawson, A. B. Pater-
son, Arthur Davis, Louise Mack, and many
others.
the Bulletin Story Booh.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK will contain
picked stories by,J. S. Evison, Roderic
Quinn, John Reay Watson, Edward
Dyson, and many others.
'"THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK will contain
1 picked stories by Mabel Holmes, Alex.
Montgomery, Frank Rollitt, J. F.
Millington, and many others.
the Bulletin Story Booh.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK will repre-
sent the work of upwards of One Hundred
Australasian Writers, sferious and
humourous, and, as in the case of The Bulletin
Reciter , every author represented will share in
any profits of publication.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK will be
published on Ist December, in a handsome
cloth cover ; price, 4s. 6d.
Che Bulletin Story Booh
MAY be ordered from any bookseller, or will
be sent post-free immediately on publica-
tion in return for P. 0.0., Postal Note, or
Stamps (4s. 6d.) by the Publishers —
Cbe Bulletin newspaper go., Ctd.
214 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA.
PRICE FIVE SHILLING'S.
the Bulletin Reciter.
THE BULLETIN RECITER will be not only
the best book of recitations ever produced
in Australia, but for Australasians it will
be the best book of recitations in the world.
THE BULLETIN RECITER will contain
some of the best verse, suitable for drama-
tic recitation, which has appeared in The
Bulletin during twenty years.
T
the Bulletin Reciter.
•HE BULLETIN RECITER will be illus-
trated by prominent Australian artists in
black-and-white.
THE BULLETIN RECITER will reflect
almost every aspect of Australasian life.
Upwards of Two Hundred Writers will be
represented.
the Bulletin Reciter.
THE BULLETIN RECITER will include
those famous pieces—“ The Billiard-
Marker’s Yarn,” “My Mate Bill,” “Off
the Grass,” “How M'Dougal Topped the
Score,” —and many others equally to be
appreciated.
THE BULLETIN RECITER will be pub-
lished on Ist December, in a handsome
cloth cover ; price, ss.
the Bulletin Reciter.
MAY be ordered from any bookseller, or
will be sent post-free immediately on
publication in return for P. 0.0., postal-
note or stamps (55.) by the Publishers—
the Bulletin newspaper go. Etd.
214 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY. AUSTRALIA.
A Rose of Regret:
Verses by James Hebblethwaitk ; being
No. II of The Bulletin Booklets.
Enveloped, Is. 6d. post free.
The Circling Hearths:
By Roderic Quinn. No. 11l of The
Bulletin Booklets. Enveloped, Is. 6d.
post free.
Dreams in Flower:
By Louise Mack. No. IV of The Bulle-
tin Booklet's (enlarged). Enveloped,
2s. 6d. post free.
The Last of Six:
Tales of the Austral Tropics. By Ernest
Favenc. Paper covers, 141 pp.; 6d. post
free.
Tales of the Convict System:
By “Price Warung.” Paper covers, 193
pp. ; 6d., post free.
Maoriland and Other Verses:
By Arthur H. Adams. Buckram, gilt
top ; 55., post free. V The best book of
Maoriland verse yet published.
The Ways of Many Waters:
By E. J. Brady. Buckram, gilt top; 55.,
post free. *** Australia’s best book of sea
and sailor verse.
On Our Selection:
By A. H. Davis (“Steele Rudd”). New
Issue. With about eighty illustrations by
Mahony, Lambert, Vincent, Leist, Fisher
and ■ Fullwood ; 6s. post-free. *** “ The
jolliest book yet printed in Australia.”
Fair Girls and Gray Horses, with Other
Verses:
By Will H. Ogilvie. New Issue. Blue
cloth, blue edges, with portrait ; ss.
post free. *** A charming presentation
volume.
Send Id. stamp for The Bulletin Book Circular.
Castro’s Cast Sacrament
And Otlwr Stories,
■w * . t, v: •
BY ALBERT DORRINGTON.
“ The Most Brilliant Short Stories Produced in
Australia
A CONSENSUS OF CRITICAL OPINION.
NEW SOUTH WALES.
“ He has been everywhere and seen every-
thing, and he has to no ordinary extent the
power of presenting things as they seemed to
him —the gift of vivid and powerful narration.
. Contains dramatic pictures which toe
best of our artistsin words might well envy.”—
Sydney Mot ning Herald.
“The stories are often filled with incidents
that startle the reader, and emotions whose very
strength makes him shiver. . . . Mr.. Dorring-
ton’s warrant as a writer of short stories is that
of absolute genius.”—Sydney Daily Telegraph.
The Bulletin Newspaper Go., Ltd.,
214 George Street, Sydney, Australia.
Special Wholesale Agents for the Trade:
New South Wales': Edwakds, Dunlop, and Co.,
Ltd., Clarence-st., Sydney.
Queensland: Edwakds, Dunlop, and Co., Ltd.,
Edward-st., Brisbane.
South Australia: E. S. WIGG AND Son, King
Wiiliam-st., Adelaide.
Westralia: E. S. Wigg AND Son, Hay-st., Perth.
Maoriland: W ildman and Lyell, Queen-st.,
Auckland.


Water! Water! We’re Witheringl
We want Water!
THIS IS THE APPEAL OF THE FLOWERS
THIS DRY WEATHER.
Can you let it go unheeded when a
GARDEN HOSE i s o
CHEAP.
10d. a month will pay foe the water, -m
OUR PRICE LIST:
f inch x 3 Ply Rubber Hose, 235, 255, 30s, 365, 42s per Coil of 50 feet.
| inch Cotton-covered Hose, 20s, 22s 6d, 255. per Coil of 50 feet.
Gem Controlling Nozzle (fitted) 2s; Ball Nozzle Sprinklers (takes same
coupling), Is 6d. Reels, Unions, and all Fittings.
PERDRIAU and COMPANY,
Hunter & George Street, Sydney
eo
TEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
w. c. lEIjIDIR/lIDG-IE & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 TORE STREET, SYDNEY
(opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen's Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
rnHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
1-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
WORTHINGTON.
RADE MARK.
d
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
For all Services kept in Stock.
Send for Catalogue.
MA
SPOONS
& FORKS
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
MARK.
HMP
J. & J. MAXFIET/D, Proprs.. SHEFFIELD.
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS,
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.
SYDNEY.
Also at
•* Taxi block:,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
MAN’S
ANTISEPTIC
NEWMAN’S
in King St.
!/■
£ ox
THROAT PASTILLES
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPP S ’ S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.'
S. FREEMAN * SONS U*!P5
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHOS
FREEMAN’S
BAKING
PRIZE
-
POWDER.
EXTRACT OF SOAP, BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
CAN OBTAIN
T
BY
USING
m
1%
V
Reg
THE SKIN
AMD
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
AH Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d , 1/- A 2/6
Sole Makers —M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
Ottumwa Winding Engine.
Catalogues Tree on Application.
LAUNDRY
AND
WOOD-WORKING
MACHINERY,
ENGINEERS’ FITTINGS,
a
■
A
6 0
Oi
c e
y
tf
m
s
e
At
8
IV
Manufacturers and Importers
OF ALL KINDS OF
LINING MACHINERY,
STEAM ENGINES
BOILERS.
AND
H. P. EXEKOK!) & CO.
General Machinery Merchants,
Sydney & Melbourne.
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
BLAKE STEAM PUMP.
Best Pump in the Market for
Boiler-Feeding. Irrigating,
Mining,
Fire and Marine Purposes.
SINGLE AND DUPLEX.
Alii* SIZES, up to 50,000 gallons, Imp.,
per hour, in Stock.
for Particulars and Prices.
FALSE RE’S PNOSPNATINE
iWSfcr PHoipmmMM 1
FAWERES
CZJ>
The Only
Food
containing
Fhospjigte
of Lime .
For iINFANTS and
INVALIDS.
AN ESSENTIAL REQUISITE IN THIS COUNTRY.
THE MIGA LUBRICANT CO., SOUTH SHIELDS, ENG.
Lubricants and Packings for all purposes. Patent Mica Grease saves 90% in cost of lub r 1 tlon ’
bearings perfectly cool. Patent Mica Packings last twice as long as ordinary, and are 20/ 0 lignter. rnej no
not score the rod's, but put a mica surface on them, similar in appearance to electro-plate.
w> Amtralada: R. A. HERVEY. Depot, 171 Clarcnce-st., Sydney, N.SAV
JUST pUBLISHED f
The Bulletin Story Book
Price, 4s. 6d„ direct from the Publishers.
*7
sr
tp
RNS
OLD
FING
1
«✓?
CHA
DS
<2>
N
c
&s.C
2Ar£ y
V
H
.■■■—
i
P f?op
r, ETORS
