

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
LAMB’S RUM.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet .
107 Kent street, Sydney,
-FOB-
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ AND GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW AND SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
dgsd
INSIDE BEARINGS.
FittttiJlfl.aoejorEastWhMis.
roond and'
GIBSON, BATTLE &C° M street, SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for Samuel Osborn & Co., Sheffield, makers of Mushet’s Titanic Borer Steel for Miners’ Drills, Bessemer Steel, Cast Steel, Muskets
Self-Hardening- Tool Steel, Mining, Well-Boring, Spring, and Tyre Steel, Steel Castings of all Descriptions, Steel Truck Wheels and Axles.
INDENTS EXECUTED, SPECIFICATIONS SUPPLIED FOR ALL KINDS OF MACHINERY.
STEEL CASTINGS, HAMMERS, FILES.
Rock Drills
Little Giant
Slogfger^
P&cSO
C
SOLE AGENTS :
N. CUTHRIDCE, Ltd.,
71 Clarence-st., Sydney,
Melbourne,
Wellington, N.Z.
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831. WHISKY.
HELIDON SPA.
A PERFECT TABLE WATER.
TOOTS «£= 00. Ltd., jflLgexitß, Sydney.
A Policy for the Commonwealth
Being a reprint of a large number of articles from
The Bulletin, in which this paper has attempted to
outline a solvent, honest and democratic policy
for Federated Australia.
gdg
HOBART.
fiadleg’s Orient jjotel.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.
CITY HOTEL
(First Gradk).
J. A. TURNER - - Proprietor.
dsg
sdg
Dr. J. W. GIBBS'
. . Electric Massage Rollers . .
For use on Face and Body.
For NERVOUS HEADACHES,
NEURALGIA and RHEUMATISM
—a specific. Removes Wrinkles.
Gold, 21/- Silver, 16/-
Post Free. Pamphlets Free.
AMERICAN AGENCY COMPANY,
Box 440, G.P.0.,
Melbourne.
PENFOLD’S
No. 1 Claret
No. 1 Burgundy
Invalid Port
No. 0 Claret
Old Tawny Port
Frontignae
Hock
Ohablis
Muscadine
Golden Sherry
WINES
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
PRICES PER FOOT OF SINGLE AND DOUBLE
BELTING :
2 2| 3 SJ 4 6 6 8 10 12 inch.
-/7 -79 -/10i II- 1/2 1/6 yil 2/8 3/4 4/-
1/2 1/4 1/7 IAO 2/2 2/11 3/6 4/6 6/7 6/9
, Agents in every State.
Made by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
THE ROYAL
Edisuian tamp
EDI S>NANI •'?.!—==
THE EDISON & SWAN
UNITED ELEOTEIO
LIGHT COMPANY LIMITED,
have the pleasure to announce
that they have received the
honor of Appointment by
Boyal Warrant as Purveyors
of Electric Lamps to HIS
MAJESTY THE KING.
Head Office:
LONDON—36 &37 Queen
Street, E.C.
Australasian Branches:
SYDNEY—I 6 Carrington
St,, Wynyard Square.
BRIS3AN H—Central
St,
3he Jhree 33's {WHI S K V / ore humming. %
EMPIRE HOTEL, SYDNEY
MOST CSIiTTBAI.r.T SITUATED.
OTARD-DUPUY
Estbd. 1795. 25 Years BRANDY.
Is
PROOF
%
sajev
USE
J
Head Office:
10 BLICH ST., SYDNEY
WATERBURY WATCHES
Have Stood the Time Test, and the Test of Time,
PRICES BEING LOW and QUALITY HIGH.
We Don’t Supply
the Wind.
VEBY LITTLE NEEDED WITH
The “Gem" Windmill
AMERICA’S GREAT GALVANISED FLYER
. . WITH . .
GALVANISED STEEL TOWER.
Absolutely the Highest Grade Windmill on the
market. Estimates furnished for Mill and Pump
complete.
M'LEAN BROS. & RIGG LTD.
Melbourne & Sydney.
The Bulletin
Y01.23.—N0. 1154.1
[Saturday, March 29, 1902
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.^


THE LATEST BOOKS AT.
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Watson, House Divided, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Gibbs, In Search of Mademoiselle, 2s 6d St 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Hichens, Prophet of Berkeley Square, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Trial of Man, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Ritchie, Table Tennis, Is, p. 3d.
Dunne, Mr. Dooley’s Opinions, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
The Bulletin Reciter, ss, p. sd.
Machray, Blow Over the Heart, 2s 6d & 3a 6d, postage 6d
Griffith, Captain Ishmael, 2s 6d &3s fid n6d ®
Phillpotts, Fancy Free, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d
Bunn, New Ideas on Bridge, Is, p. 3d.
W.vllard, Story of Eden, 65., p. 6d.
Parker, Right of Way, 2s 6d &3s 6d, p. 6d. '
The Bulletin Story Book, 4s 6d, p. 6d
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) & at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane & London
The Bulletin publications.
Forwarded to any address in return for postal
notes, stamps, or P. 0.0. for prices stated.
Send Id. stamp for The Bulletin Book Circular,
No. V.
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300
pages; price, 4s. 6d. post-free.
The Bulletin Bieciter:
By Eighty Bulletin Bards. With illus-
trations by “Hop,” N, Lindsay, A. J.
Fischer, F. Leist, D. H. Souter, and H.
McCrae. In handsome cloth, decorated ;
price, os. post-free.
Castro’s Bast Sacrament and Other
Stories:
By Albert Dorrington (“ Alba Dorion”).
A handsome volume of 350 pages, bound in
cloth, decorated; price 4s. 6d. post free.
On Our Selection:
By A. H. Davis (“Steele Rudd”). New
Issue. With about eighty illustrations by
Mahony, Lambert, Vincent, Leist, Fisher
and Full wood ; 6s. post-free. “-The'
* j oiliest book yet printed in Australia.”
Fair Girls and Gray Horses, with Other
Verses:
By Will H. Ogilvie. New Issue. Blue
cloth, blue edges, with portrait; ss.
post free. *»* A charming presentation
volume.
The Ways of Many Waters:
By E. J. Brady. Buckram, gilt top; 55.,
post free. *** Australia’s best book of sea
and sailor verse.
Maoriland and Other Verses:
By Arthur H. Adams. Buokram, gilt
top ; 55., post free. *** The best book of
Maoriland verse yet published.
The Bast of Six:
Tales of the Austral Tropics. By Ernest
Faveno. Paper covers, 141 pp.; 6d. post
free.
A Hose of Regret:
Verses by James Hebblethwaite ; being
No. II of The Bulletin Booklets.
Enveloped, Is. 6d. post free.
The Circling Hearths:
By Roderio Quinn. No. 11l of The
Bulletin Booklets. Enveloped, Is. 6d.
post free.
Breams in Flower:
By Louise Mack,, No. IV of The Bulle-
tin Booklets. Enveloped, 2s. 6d. post-
free.
The West Wind:
By Hubert Church ; being No. V of
This Bulletin Booklets. Ready 31st
March, 1902. Price 2s. 6d.
Works by Francis Adams:
(Publishers’ Remainders, offered as Second-Hand.)
Poetical Works, complete edition, printed
in Brisbane by Muir & Morcom. Paper
covers; 4to. Only a, few copies remain.
Price, ss.
Australian Essays, printed in Melbourne
by Wm. Inglis & Co. Paper covers, 3vo.
Only a few copies remain. Price, 2s; 6d.
Songs of the Army of the Night, printed
in Sydney. Boards, Bvo. Only a few copies
remain. Price, 2s. 6d.
A Policy for the Commonwealth :
Price, 6d. ; posted, Bd.
Also on Sale:
Peace or War in South Africa:
By A. M. S. Methuen ; price 6d. *** The
best short account of the origin and develop-
ment of the war in Africa.
THE BULLETIN BOOKS.
Sole Distributing Agents :
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
Special Wholesale Agents :
New South Wales
Queensland
Victoria ..
Tasmania
South Australia
Westralia
Auokland and dist
Edwards, Dunlop & 00., Ltd.
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd.
George Robertson Proprietary.
George Robertson Proprietary.
E. S. Wigg & Son.
E. S. Wigg & Son.
WILDMAN, LyELL, & ARBY.
Others to be appointed.
Sold by All Leading Booksellers.
The Bulletin Newspaper Go., Ltd.,
214 George-s'l'., Sydney, Australia.
Hudson’s Eumenthoi Jujubes
For
GOUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS of the
THROAT and
' LUNGS.
(REGISTERED).
C>*
IN TINS, Is. 6d.
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable for Singers
and Public Speakers.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OR POST FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR,
G. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q.
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE ; and FELTON, GRIM WADE & CO., MELBOURNE, AGENTS.
They ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia,
UNDER THE
GUMTREE
J BRUIN TON STEPHENS
drops his initial, and
• becomes plain Brunton
Stephens in the new col-
lection of his verses published by
Angus and Robertson. A good
elderly portrait is prefixed ; but
the printing and paper of the
new book are much inferior to
the printing and paper of the
Convict Once and Other Poems
issued by George Robertson in
1888: indeed, the book is in
these respects the least creditable
of all which its present publishers
have issued in their series of Aus-
tralian authors. The backbone
of the new Poetical Works is the
George Robertson collection of
1888 ; but two pieces are dropped
—“King Billy’s Skull” and
“The Antipodes”; and there
are added fifteen pieces, of which
the most notable ate “ A Coin of Trajan in Aus-
tralia,” from The Australasian; “The Chamber of
Faith,” from The Antipodean ; and the recent piece
“Fulfilment,” written for the Federation of Aus-
tralia. Certain of the pieces included, such as the
“Johnsonian Address” and “ A Historical Pro-
blem,” have a very doubtful title to the honour.
For the rest, “ Convict Once ” is relegated to the
end of the book, instead of standing in the fore-
front ; and we pass first through a series of the
author’s moral and’didactic verses, which contain
doubtless his best" work in serious vein. Both
versions of the “Australian Anthem” are given
—the old and the new—one including a verse for
‘ ‘ the Motherland ” and the other referring to Aus-
tralia exclusively ; so that each political opinion
is catered for. One piece we are glad to see is
the song from Stephens’s operetta Fayette —
The new edition of Poetical Works seems to be
regarded as definitive ; and of late, indeed, the
author has added little to his store. Eor lovers
of Australian verse he will always have interest;
and his claims to be considered an Australian
classic are so great that one would like to see his
work clothed in better dress for preservation and
re-reading.
This criticism from St. James’s Budget oi Jan.
24 represents the real attitude of the typical
English mind to things characteristically Aus-
tralian ; the other kind of attitude is mostly
publishing puff or literary pretence—
Those who love the Australian bush, the “ Never-
Never Country ” tales of buck-jumpers, tramps, jacka-
roos, the damper, the billy, and the swag, will discover
congenial fare in Joe Wilson and His Mates, by Mr.
Henry Lawson (Blackwood). Those, and they are many,
who find such things a weariness to the flesh will do well
to avoid the book. Joe Wilson’s fortunes are related in
the first half of the volume, and dry and monoton-
ous as they are, they are pervaded by a certain
thread of human interest. The true, or ap-
parently true, story of a real man’s life can
never be completely unattractive. The remainder of the
book consists of a series of ordinary camp-fire yarns of
the time-honoured bush flavour. Like all anecdotes
hailing from the dismal Australian solitudes, one seems
to have read them before.
No matter what variations you may admit for
individuals or classes, every analysis of the British
character must begin and end with the statement
of the Latin primer—“ Britannia est insula.” And
the insular attitude is summed in: “’Ere’s a
strange bloke : ’eave ’arf a brick at ’im J”
The vehemently vocal N.S.W. Works Minister
O’Sullivan (which anagrammatises, by the way, as
I Vain Soul—with an excessive L ! that can be
taken as the audience’s exclamatory comment)
has turned to patronising literature in the intervals
of building bridges and naming dredges. A sketch
of the history of “The ‘Rocks’” —that unduly
familiar Sydney suburb —is the result. Roderic
Quinn writes it; and Govt, prints it and pays for
it—out of loan-money ? The sketch is interesting
and well-written (though you hear now and anon
the shriek of mandrake-words dragged by the roots
from the soil of usage); and the loan-money or
the revenue-money has been often worse spent.
J*
Barbara Baynton, who left Sydney for England
the other day with a book of literary sketches
designed for London publication, has written
several remarkably strong Australian stories,
nearly all unpublished. As a writer, she is a kind
of female Henry Lawson, with no less intensity,
and even a greater fidelity to detail. Her work
is uneven; but it holds rare poignancy and
power.
J»
“ We called him Bamum Powell,” says Philip
Pienaar in his book With Steyn and De Wet, pub-
lished by Methuen. This is a Boer version of
some of the incidents of the war, and forms a use-
ful corrective to undiscriminating pro-British
accounts. Of the motives which inspire the Boers
this perhaps is the best exposition :
I say nearly every man still fighting is as fervent a
Progressive as the world could wish, and a 3 much opposed
to Paul Kruger’s policy as the British themselves. Then
what are they fighting for ? you ask. For independence.
. . . And they will continue. Not because they are sure
of success, but because it is their duty.
Aubrey de Vere himself usually bore the expense
of publication of his books. That explains why he
was able to say, when earnings in literature were
discussed : “ I call no writer poor who can—as I
can—double his income at any moment.”
“ How ? ” he was asked. “ By laying down my
pen.”
King Edward has been asked by a petition of
sobolars to incorporate “The British Academy
for the Promotion of Historical, Philosophical,
and Philological Studies.” There is certainly
need of the Studies.
A correspondent—“B.”—
The danger you point out is no doubt real enough. But
does it matter ? Are the Australians worth the trouble
of saving—even if you could save them? The whole push
went crazy over the Boer war—refused to investigate or
to think, and revelled in ignorance and brutality. Im-
pulsive they are, of course, and that mightn’t matter
much; but impulsiveness joined with shallowness and
immense conceit is mortal disease. Talk about “ blind
hysterics of the Celt!” The Celt's nowhere. The out-
cry against the Barton tariff is another example. Tire
tariff may be a blessing or an unmixed evil; but these
pawing, wild-eyed blatherskites don’t know, and mostly
are incapable of finding out for themselves, the
real nature of what they are denouncing. The
occasional wave of republican feeling is just
as significant as the present torrent of im-
perialism. We can brag, we can help to deal it out to
the Boer, we can yell and be spiteful if we feel a hand at
our pockets, we can get drunk and blow tin trumpets in
honour of a bogus British hero, we can feel our bosoms
swell when Barton or a hero of melodrama gives us
rhetorical commonplaces; but we can’t be steady, we
can’t think calmly and consistently. We have no poise.
We live, like blackfellows, for the moment, We know
when we are hungry or thirsty for bread or blood. Immi-
gration is the only thing that will keep us from bora cere-
monies and corroborees. If we like the pleasures of
Imperialism, let us.have them. You can’t stop us, any-
way.
Nevertheless, Matthew Arnold said the last word,
the fine word—
They out-talk’d thee, hissed thee, tore thee?
Braver men fared thus before thee ;
Fired their ringing shot and pass’d,
Hotly charged—and sank at last.
Charge once more, then, and be dumb 1
Let the Victors, when they come,
When the forts of folly fall,
Find thy body by the wall.
Wherefore—no mean compromises, and Nil Des-
perandum !
“Cockaigne” writes —
Novelist F. W. Robinson died on Dec. Bth last. Known
especially as a writei’ of Three Deckers, the 3 vol. novels
which used to be sold at £1 11s, 6d., but have been
knocked on the head. Hardly anyone bought them
except the Circulating Libraries, and yet each of these
novels stood Robinson in about £5OO, and he polished off
two each year. When prices dropped to 65., he found it
did n’t pay. He then got less than £lOO for a novel. He
wrote 55.
Sudermann’s new play JEs Lebe das Leben!
(“ Live your life ! ”) was produced at the Deutsches
Theater in Berlin on Ist February. The central
idea is that life is only worth living as long as it
provides enjoyment for the senses. “The play,”
says a critic, “ is modern in every sense, and it is
significant that barely half-a-dozen of the audience
expressed any objection to its exaltation of
adultery.”
£
The same night saw Stephen Phillips’s play
Ulysses produced at Her Majesty’s in London.
“Weak stuff,” “a failure,” “wishy-washy senti-
mentality”—“as different as possible from the
strong, purging winds of Homer’’—these are some
commentaries.
J*
Perhaps the most attractive reproduction in
Part I of The Nation's Pictures (Cassell and Co.)
is that of Gx-eiffenhagen’s very sensuous “Idyll”
—two lovers ruddy in a field of red poppies, all
aflare with sanguine sunset. The other pictures
are Edwin Abbey’s “Mistress Mine,” Alfred
List’s “Autumn,” and Orchardson’s “Napoleon
on the Belle-rophon ” —all for ninepence. The
examples show what seven-league strides the
three-colour screen process ha 3 made—aided by
lithography, surely ?
“ The Evolution of the Direct Man ” (says The
Freethinker) is a most interesting and suggestive
Iiapter in Dr. Jordan’s (Eng.) recent book, The
Toral Nerve. The average brain (he says) is in-
irect; a brain of indirect methods, hazy ideas,
id timid conclusions. The direct brain—critical,
>sting, inquiring, discriminative, and firm—is
radually coming into existence. And it leads to
dmness instead of feverish life. Health is better
ow than it used to be; life is longer, bodily
;ature is greater. Science, under the appearance
E complexity, tends to the simplification of exist-
ace. “The future,” as Dr. Jordan reads it,
gives ample promise of a simpler life, a life too—
lough much will depend on individual nerve-
rganisation—of slighter labour, longer repose,
nd quieter meditation.”
Some correspondents—
Valda : Love-offering declined; pay Aphrodite...
ddress editor V.: (1) Saintsbury’s works are interest-
lg on subject, and he has very good taste. (2) Trionfo
ella Morte—“The Triumph of Death,” is D’Annunzio’s
lost powerful story “ Gliquer ” wishes to know where
3 find a humorous recitation—“The Magpie”—which
eals with a man, a maiden, and M A.B.D.: But who
lys “spread of rationalism” says “decay of religious
elief,” surely ? Are they not two aspects of the identi-
a.1? G.H. : Who is W. M. Whitney, “ author of “ Let
ae Woman Go!”? (“Aborig.” page, 28/12/1), and,
so, why ? His verses are, at the best, a bare-faced
3-setting of Gelett Burgess’s “ Willy and the Lady,”
ublished originally in The, Criterion, N.Y., and reprinted
year or so ago on the “ Red Page.” Some of Whitney’s
nes are practically identical with those of Burgess, and
he ideas are ghosts to one another pretty well through-
ut. Thus Burgess, verse 1, line 1 :—
“ Leave the lady, Willy ; let the racket rip."
Whitneys first two lines—
“ Let the woman go, boy 1—
She has little worth ” —
Same metre, you see; sawn in two on the guileless
Whitney wood-horse. Burgess again, verse 11, line 7 :—
“ Light your pipe and listen, and the boys will pull you
through ”;
Vide Whitney, verse 6 :—
“ dome and smoke a pipe, boy 1
Wine and talk a-flood.”
Burgess, verse 4 :—
“ Leave the lady, Willy ; you are rather young."
Whitney, verse 7:—
“ Try a score or so, boy!
You are rather young" (I)
*
Nobody bothers about Zangwill now; but it is
interesting to note how the Jew’s business spirit
has-come out in him. He is heart and soul) pen
and speech, with the Zionist movement which
wants to send the world-scattered Jews back as a
nation to Judee. And indeed, although Marcus
Clarke is dead, somebody might be found to give
Zangwill a list of a few Jews whom Australia
could very well spare.
THE BOOK[?]ELLOW.
Contributor “ X” —
As to Alfred Harinsworth’s opinion of Furniss’s /vi/ra
Joka (25/1/2), surely Alfred must have been “kidding”
Furniss. Lika Joka’s failure was prophesied because
there wasn’t enough for the money (3d.)- Furniss
wished to run against Punch, also 3d.,' but the Punch
people had half-a-dozen star illustrators to Lika Jolca’s
one—Furniss. Logically, you would expect Harmsworth
to be one of the last to say that too much was given for
the money : he himself goes on the principle of giving
good, bouncing penn’orths, and finds it pays ; but none
of his magas. are one-man shows.
Why doth the dawning speak of her?
What kindred hath she with the morn ?
Why should my wakening thoughts transfer
To her the glow in Orient born ?
I only know that wheresoe’er
Awaketh Beauty, she is there. ,
Why is the noontide full of her?
What kindred hath she with the sun?
Why should the whole world’s minister
Be eloquent alone of one?
I only know that wheresoe’er
Exulteth Beauty, she is there. v
Why is the midnight fraught with her?
What kindred hath she with the night?
0 dreams that are of things that were,
Ye change my darkness into light!,
I know, I know that wheresoe’er
Reposeth Beauty, she is there.
Henry Lawson’s collection of sketches, Joe
Wilson and- His Mates , is praised by one of
Lond. Athenceum’s reviewers as the best work he
has yet produced ; but Lawson’s Australian ad-
mirers will find the book rather disappointing. It
is a pleasant, rambling mixture of observation and
reminiscence; but as a whole it is decidedly
flatter and less interesting than his earlier
books. When there are three or four pages
of really dramatic writing, as in “The Babies
in the Bush,” they are so smothered with unim-
portant detail that the effect is to a great extent
missed. Lawson appears to have been writing
with an eye to filling Eng. magazine space ; and
for Australian readers much of his “local colour”
is unnecessary. The.explanation of gold-washing
at p. 167, for example, is well-meant for the
English, who know nothing about gold-washing ;
but }n Australia we desire to take that for
granted, and get on with the story. The use of
English stereo-plates apparently accounts for
such eccentricities of spelling as “ Kendel ” and
“Gob” and Co. in the local edition. Two pieces
of verse included in the volume are not in
Lawson’s best style ; but the first, addressed “ to
the chaps who barracked for ME,” is eminently
■ characteristic.
SEC RET A SI LVARUM.
Frau Soldo ham. aus dem Berg hergor. —Shepherd’s
Song in ‘Tannhauser’,
Where as, when Holda leaves her hill
of winter, on the quest of JUne,
black oaks with emerald lamplets thrill
that flicker forth to her magic tune,
at dawn the forest shivers whist
and all its hidden glades awake
under the thinning milk-white mist,
and the sun-quickened branches make
along its edge a woven sound
of legends that allure and flit
on wound horns towards the enchanted ground
where, in the light moon-vapours lit
all night, while the black woods in mass,
serried, forbid with goblin fear,
fay-revels gleam o’er the pale grass
till shrill-throats chirp the matin near.
0 then, O then in the sweet of the year
adventurous in the witching green,
last feal of the errant spear,
to seek the eyes of lost Undine
clear blue above the blue cold stream
that lingers till her plaint be done,
01 and perchance from that sad dream
to woo her, laughing, to the sun
and that glad blue that seems to flow
far up, where dipping branches shift
sidelong their soft throng’d frondage slow
and slow the thin cloud-fleeeelets drift.
O there to drowse the summer thro’
deep in some odorous twilit lair,
swoon’d in delight o'f golden dew
within the sylvan witch’s hair:
the while on halt-shut lids to feel
the yellow sunshafts broken dim,
and seldom waftures moth-like steal
and settle on the bare-flung limb ;
or under royal autumn, pall’d
with smouldering magnificence,
to feel the olden heart enthrall’d
in wisdoms of forgotten sense,
and wild desire and pain, that fill’d
red August’s heart of throbbing bloom,
in one grave hour of knowledge still’d
where glory ponders o’er its doom :
and when the boughs are iron lace,
and silence chisels silver rime,
by some old hearth, with half-lit face,
to dream the vanished forest prime,
the spring tide’s sweet and June’s delight,
more precious, now that hard winds chill
the dews that made their mornings bright,
and Holda sleeps beneath her hill.
N.S.W.
C.B.


M c DOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP
THE ORIGINAL NON-POISONOUS DIP.
M'DOXTG-Aljlj BROS., O Spring Street, Sydney.
AGENTS:
N.Z. L. & M.A. Co., Ltd., Australia and New Zealand : Strachan, Cheedle & Co., Adelaide; J. B. Curran, Hobart,
SKINS
Send to
Kangaroo,
Wallaby,
Rabbit,
Opossum.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
SYDKTEY.
and so obtain utmost possible prices.
Undeniable Figures prove that our perfect and up-to-date
system of handling Wool meets with full appreciation from Woolgrowers.
COLDSBROUCH, MOOT & CO. Ltd.
SYD3NTEY.
During' the Season 1901-2 we offered at auction 63i343 bales, and sold
at auction and privately ex Catalogue 56,202 bales, thus firmly
establishing ourselves as the LEADING Wool Selling Brokers of Sydney on
account of COUNTRY CONSIGNORS.
We invite inspection of our popular TRUST A/c System and of the figures given above.
N.B.—Our Figures do NOT include private Sales of Uncatalogued Wool. George Maiden, Manager.
Visitors to the old country
SOUTH
KENSINGTON
HOTEL
UNDER ROYAL PATRONAGE.
dsg
QUEEN’S GATE TERRACE.
LONDON. S.W.
CONSIDERABLY ENLARGED. NOTED
FOR ITS COMFORT & CONVENIENCE.
ONE OF THE
WOST FASHIONABLE
HOTELS IN LONDON.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK; Price, 4s. 6d
HAVE THE
BEST.
ii i inn
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE FENCE
Is built by a light, handy machine, easily operated, which will weave
THREE CHAINS OF FENCE AN HOUR.
The Lateral Wires are two-ply cable of best Gal. Steel Wire intersected by Crimped Steel Pickets
securely interwoven at any desired distance apart, forming a perfect Web Fence which will hold
securely all kinds of Stock.
FOR CATALOGUES AND PARTICULARS
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE FENCE CO.,
128 Franklin St., Melbourne ; 143 Sussex St., Sydney.
Reward <£s
For Information Leading to the Conviction of Offenders.
PUBLIC NOTICE!
WHEREAS it has been ascertained that certain unscrupulous persons, aware
of the unprecedented success which has resulted from the placing on the market the
now Celebrated “Can’t B Beat ” Shilling Pipes, Branded Thus :
are selling certain Pipes to the Public as such, but which are infinitely
inferior, and are NOT the Genuine C. 8.8. Pipes, as supplied to the Trade and to
the Public at the various Establishments of Mick Simmons.
Notice is hereby given that as ignorance cannot in the future be accepted as an
excuse, all persons infringing our Rights as Proprietors of the above Brand, which
is an abbreviation of our well-known Trade Mark, “Can’t B Beat,” will be
prosecuted under the Trade Marks Act, and be Proceeded Against in Equity for an
Injunction.
GBB
/cbK
Trade Mark registered in Australasia and
New Zealand.
The Public are requested to see that the above Brand is stamped upon every Pipe
purchased, and they are particularly Cautioned against deception in this respect.
The Public are further requested to at once make known to the undersigned any
attempt to pass off either unbranded Pipes or Pipes with any Brand other than the
above, for C B B.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Charge : 3 Per Cent, to the Growers,
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge Jci. per lb. to the Buyers.
WOMEN AND
WARNER’S
SAFE CURE.
The health of women ie of supreme im-
portance. The daughter of to-day becomes
the wife of to-morrow, and it is abso-
lutely essential to the welfare of the race
that good health should be hers; good
health which brings happiness and en-
sures vigour in posterity. A woman’s
nervous system is very highly strung.
Her mechanism is far more delicate and
complex than that of a man, and there
is little to wonder at when it breaks down
under the continuous high pressure of
modern life.
Most women require some aid to enable
them to support the daily stress and
strain, and this aid is found in WARNER’S
BAFE CURE —a medicine wonderfully
adapted to their delicate organisation—
which has for twenty years secured the
grateful endorsement of women in all
walks of life in all parts of the civilised
world.
Read the following Letters:
“ Charlton,” George Street,
Norwood, S.A.
October 1, 1900.
Dear Sirs, —
About seven years ago I contracted a severe
internal complaint, and was in a very critical
state. The doctor attending me told me that if I
lived I should be a sufferer all my lifetime. His
treatment was quite useless in giving me relief.
After two or three years I got tired of paying
doctors’ fees for no benefit, and hearing of Warner’s
Safe Cure I gave it a trial. I took, in all, five
bottles, and am thankful to state I am perfectly
cured. The medical man was genuinely surprised
at such a wonderful result. lam now as well as
it is possible to be, and give Warner’s Safe Cure
the whole credit for accomplishing what doctors
deemed impossible. Hoping that ladies, suffer-
ing as I did, will profit, I am writing to you now.
My mother considered that her life was saved by
the use of Warner’s Safe Cure in a somewhat
similar complaint.
(Mrs ) ANNIE HARRIS.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Ltd.
8 Carlton-street, Prahan, Vic.,
March 12, 1901,
Dear Sirs, —
I am pleased to report the benefit I derived
from the use of Warner’s Safe Cure. After many
years of pain and suffering from kidney and liver
complaint, I, who was accustomed to minister to
others, was brought to a bed of sickness myself.
The doctors could give me no hope of relief or
recovery, and said that I had but a short time to
live. I tried various advertised remedies, but all
failed to give me relief until I tried Warner’s Safe
Cure. From the first bottle I began to improve
in health. The pains gradually left me. I con-
tinued to take the medicine for some time, until I
was perfectly cured, and sound in body and mind.
I may state that the doctors were more than sur-
prised to see me up and about again. I have
heard of many other cases during my professional
career, which were in like manner cured by the use
of Warner’s Safe Cure.
Yours obediently,
EMMA DARVELL,
Ladies’ Nurse.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Ltd.
Broken Hill, N.S.W., October 11, 1900.
Gentlemen, —
I have great pleasure in testifying to the good
results I have obtained from the use of Warner’s
Safe Cure. For some time I was suffering great
agony with terrible pains in my side and around
my body. After trying several remedies, which
failed, I used Warner’s Safe Cure, and am happy
to state that I am now quite restored to health.
You may make this public and accept my thanks
for the good results 1 obtained.
(Mbs.) ELIZA BUTLER.
Messrs. H. H. Warner and Co., Ltd.
Morewell, Victoria,
|December 8, 1900.
Dear Sirs, —
I am pleased to be able to testify to the great
benefit I derived from the use of Warner’s Safe
Cure when suffering from insomnia and rheumatic
pains in my body and legs. I have only used a
few bottles, and the results have been simply
marvellous. Yours truly,
(Mbs.) ISABEL FRASER.
Messrs. H. H. Warner and Co., Ltd.
Fitzroy Street, Tara worth, N.S.W.,
September 25, 1900.
Dear Sirs, —
I owe my life principally to Warner’s Safe
Cure. I suffered for years in New Zealand from
bronchitis and lung complaint, and have been
in the District Hospital in Wellington three
different times. At last I was ordered to a warm
climate, but I still suffered much with pains in
my chest and back. One day I read a pamphlet,
and thought I would try Warner’s Safe Cure.
After I had taken the first bottle I found myself
stronger, and continued till I had used seven
bottles. I then came out to N.S.W., and am now
in perfect health. I earn my living by selling a
hair restorer of my own recipe and make, and am
walking about most of the day. lam well known
in the district, and I always recommend Warner’s
Safe Cure.
Yours thankfully,
(Mbs.) TERESA NOLAN.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Ltd.
100 Chestnut Street, Richmond, Vio.,
March 11, 1901.
For years I was a great sufferer from liver com-
plaint, which caused severe pains in my back and
sides and great mental depression. I was not able
to follow my calling. Hearing on reliable
authority of the beneficial effects of Warner’s
Safe Cure in kidney and liver complaints I gave
it a trial. From the first I derived great benefit,
and was ultimately completely cured. About
twelve years ago my husband used Warner’s Safe
Cure when suffering from weak and bleeding kid-
neys. Two bottles restored him to health and
strength.
Yours truly, JANE DAY.
34 Carrington Street, Sydney,
July 31, 1900.
Some time ago I was suffering from severe
pains in my back and kidneys, and being tired of
medical treatment, which did me no good, I, on
the recommendation of a friend, tried Warner’s
Safe Cure. Three bottles and a half cured me,
and I have never been troubled since.
Yours obediently,
(Mbs.) MARY J. FIELD.
113 Edward Street, E. Brunswick, "Vic.
April 30, 1901.
Dear Sirs, —
I have pleasure in giving evidence as to the
efficacy of Warner’s Safe Cure. For many years
I suffered from kidney and liver complaint. Fre-
quently I was quite prostrated and unable to do
my household work, my whole system being
affected, especially my head. The doctor who
treated me did me no good. I was advised to try
Warner’s Safe Cure and Warner’s Safe Pills.
After taking a few bottles of the medicine I felt
quite a different woman, and am now in the en-
joyment of as good health as I ever had in my
life.
Yours truly, (Mrs.) E. NELSON.
Messrs. H. H. Warner and Co., Ltd.
“Camrock,” Elwood Street,
North Brighton, Vic.
April 29, 1901.
Sirs, —
I have found Warner’s Safe Cure to be a most
wonderful medicine for giving health and strength
when suffering trom that languid and tired feeling
which most women are subject to, and which
makes one unfit to attend to household duties,
or to any other business. In my case, Warner’s
Safe Cure had an immediate and lasting beneficial
effect. I strongly recommend Warner’s Safe Cure
to any ladies who may suffer in like manner, feel-
ing sure that they, too, will derive great benefit
from taking a course of this medicine.
Yours truly, (Mrs.) E. BADE.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Ltd.
Findon, Adelaide, S.A.,
October 2, 1900.
Dear Sirs, —
Several years ago I was a continual sufferer
from kidney complaint. I was hardly ever free
from shivering attacks and severe pains in my
back and head. I was not able to go about my
duties, and was frequently confined to my bed.
Reading of some wonderful results brought about
by Warner’s Safe Cure, I gave it a trial. I felt
much benefit from the first bottle. After taking
half-a-dozen bottles, I was a new woman. I feel
quite sure that Warner’s Safe Cure saved my life.
Yours truly, (Mrs.) ELLEN RELF.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Ltd.
The secret of the remarkable effects of Warner’s Safe Cure is that it causes the liver and kidneys to become perfectly healthy.
When these vital organs are doing their work thoroughly, all poisonous acids and other waste products of the body are removed
naturally, and such diseases as Indigestion, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Lumbago, Backache,
Sciatica, Anaemia, General Debility, Blood Disorders, Gravel and Bladder Troubles can no longer exist, as they are all caused by
the presence in the blood of these impurities.


TATTERS ALLS
Address : Care <3-330. ADAMS, Ho"bart.
April 12.
City Tattersall’s H.
50,000 Subscribers at 5-
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
£>
shares in above.
Name
Address
ADELAIDE 0. H
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
Name
Address 2 :
£ : :
May 7-
shares in above.
PRINCE OP WALES S.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
Name
Address
£ 5 2
June 3.
shares in above.
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars
Address “ Tatter sail,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


I
FLUID
Indigestion*
Biliousness
y Infants
AND invalids.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstre & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
.all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
CALVERTS
20 per cent.
CARBOLIC
SOAP
Cures and prevents Insect
and Mosquito bites.
The strongest Carbolic Toilet Soap.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
Castro’s Last Sacrament
By ALBERT DORRINGTON.
4s 6 a.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Ont-door work onr Silk GTuiPrf
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Halt-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTGASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold o*
Leasehold City or Suburban
Prpwrtins, or on
Freehold and C.P. (combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per cent,
of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
HEAD OFFICE : 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
KHftU&V.
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 IOSr
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
£3T Send for a
Catalogue.
T
u
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER. 130 Sussex-stroet.
W : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY,
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send tor a Catalogue.
PLAYER’S
WORLD
FAMED
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
I
WHOLESALE
Distributing Agents
New South Wales—
M. RUTTY & CO.,
SYDNEY.
Victoria —
J. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia —
Hart, Lawrence & Co.
Propy. Ld., Adelaide
Western Australia —
Lionel Samson & Son,
Fremantle
Queensland —
Thos. Brown & Sons, Ld.
Brisbane
Burns, Phllp & Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania —
Watohorn Bros.,
Hobart
John McKenzie & Co.,
Launceston
New Zealand —
D. Benjamin & Co.
Dunedin, Wellington
and Christchuroh.
v.v
Highest Grade of Quality Finish.
laT" Every Pipe Guaranteed.
PRIZE MEDAL, Paris Exhibition, 1900.
Australian Agents:
M. RUTTY & CO., New South Wales.
J. E. HUNT, Victoria.
THOMAS BROWN & SONS, LTD., Queensland.
HART LAWRENCE & CO. PROP. LTD., South Australia
A. G-. & E. T. KNOX, West Australia.
THE
‘PLUM’
Thj
THE
‘PLUM’
ENTUEMEN.— This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 78. 6d.
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Price
f Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 219.
\ Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 309.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part op the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEIM, 680 George-st., Sydney.
MARTELLS
“A genuine
old Brandy
made from
Wine.”
Medical Press.
THREE STAR
“ Particularly suitable
for Medicinal
Purposes.”
Tiij Lancet.
BRANDY.
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company
When In town, pay ns a visit. Do yon want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY! If so, send for our Price List. You
'will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, 15; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, i 7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £l.l.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £0
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
toOrder. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Ulusorated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
cent more for your renuirrmente.
193 to 195 Cleveland-streot, Redfern, SYDNJiiSf
OUR SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
ds
RoHrered at any Wharf or
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
“Youth Quickly Plies!”
Ay, and we stay not to consider how speedily
until it has forever fled. _ Youth is to man or
woman what springtime is to the year. Every-
thing is new, delightful, and full of promise.
There are no regrets for the past, for there is no
past—everything lies in the golden future. The
conscience is clear, the heart light, the spirit
joyous, the digestion sound, the step elastic. Happy
youth cares not a snap of the finger about the
increase in the income-tax, the rate of exchange,
the state of trade, the changes pending in the
political map, or any such dry-as-dust matters;
it is too busy being happy. Ah well! this is as
it always was, and doubtless ever will be. We
shall none of us ever be younger than we are
to-day. These considerations make it doubly
sad when youth is debarred by ill-health from
the pleasures which rightly belong to it. Let us
listen to what Miss Emma Lillian Fisher, of 373,
Bourke-street, Darlinghurst, N.S.W., has to tell
us. Writing on 26th June, 1901, Miss Fisher says:
“In February, 1896, when residing in Chapman-
street, Surry Hills, I had the misfortune to
accidentally fall from a window into a yard below,
a distance of 20ft. My mother rushed into
the yard expecting to find me very seriously
injured, but to her great satisfaction I had
escaped with no more serious injury than a few
contusions. Unfortunately, though no bones were
broken, the shock to the system was so severe
that a breakdown of my hitherto robust health
ensued. I lost my appetite, grew listless, weak,
pale and nervous, afraid to venture out alone
because of a dizziness which at times came over
me. I was attended by one of the leading doctors ;
but my case seemed to baffle his skill, for I
made no advance towards recovery. He said I
was suffering from anaemia and nervous pros-
tration, the result of shock ; but be that as it
may, he only succeeded in naming my complaints.
He could not relieve him. My brother Harry
had for a long time endeavoured to persuade
me to try a course of Seigel’s Syrup. At first
he measured out the doses and stood over me
while I swallowed them. But compulsion soon
became unnecessary. Each dose seemed to infuse
new health into me. My worst symptoms—
headache, heartburn, palpitations, and dizziness —
were speedily put to flight. My appetite revived,
and the cheerfulness natural to my disposition
returned. I continued to take Seigel’s Syrup
for several months, by which time my health was
thoroughly re-established.”
Miss Fisher is a vivacious young lady of twenty-
two, and her appearance has nothing which
suggests her painful experiences.
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Lonely Track.
They were firm old friends in the days gone past—
Kind hearts of the olden school;
But the will grows weak when the drought holds
fast,
And each of them played the fool.
’Twas a brutal word, and the word returned,
An oath, and an angry blow,
A fiery passion that fiercely burned,
And
“Connors went out three days ago—
Went out on the Lonely Track,
Where the tanks are dry and the grass won’t grow—•
Oh, God ! but I thought he was sure to know !
Come back, old Connors, come back ! ”
Yet Connors had paused when his swag was made
And his dog stood ready to start,
And a nervous twitch on his thin lips played,
From the pain of his aching heart,
And with outstretched hand he had said “ Good-
bye,”
As one who is in disgrace,
But the other had risen with flashing eye,
And spat an oath in his face.
“ Oh, Connors went out three days agone—
Went out on the Lonely Track !
The scalding tears in his dim eyes shone ;
I watched them fall as he faced the sun ;
Come back ! old Connors, come back ! ”
Night came and the day and the day again,
But Connors came there no more ;
Only a kelpie that whined with pain
Crawled up to the humpy door ;
And the other made oath as he journeyed out,
“By God, I will fetch him back ! ”
But he followed a trail that was laid in doubt,
For he trod on the Lonely Track.
There is horror now in the Far-out West,
Where the brown, bark humpy stands,
For the mice, unheeded, have built a nest
Where the clock holds death in its hands ;
And out of the corners, where darkness lies
With the dust of the days gone past,
There comes the glitter of impish eyes
That grip you and hold you fast.
And the birds keep clear of the open eaves
Where the wind makes endless moan,
For the rocking roof like a weird thing grieves,
And the saplings strain and groan ;
And under the bunk where Connors slept
A bat in the day-time clings—
And every inch of the floor is swept
By creeping and unclean things.
And just outside, by a fallen log
Where Connors was wont to rest,
The bleaching bones of a faithful dog
Grow white—with the skull turned west;
And over the whole is an eerie sense
Of something that nameless walks
When the spirit of Loneliness vague, intense,
With Death, as a demon, stalks.
For Connors went out long, long ago—
Went out on the Lonely Track.
And beyond the rise, where the sky hangs low,
God heard the caw of a sated crow—
“ Come back ! Old Connors, come back ! ”
Y.
MILKY WHITE.
The Farm-Laborers.
I got up earlier than the sun this morn
And turned in ecstasy to eastern skies
Where lifting clouds looked into paradise ;
But ere one hymn of praise was heav’nward borne
A band of workers passed, some old and worn,
Some in life’s prime, and some with infant-eyes
(Ah ! who will listen to the baby-cries,
Cutting with anguish in the fields of corn ?)
And as they passed, far out at Heaven’s brink,
God’s eyes threw shadows of them from the east
That ribbed the earth with restless ghosts of
wrong !
Ah ! ye who at the founts of Mammon drink—
And at the altar place of Moloch feast—
You slumber in these shadows. But how tony ?
VIC.
M.W.
Jabez Balfour, the Liberator Building
Society swindler, is said to be in a dying state in
Parkhurst Prison (Eng.).
If Admiral Charles Beresford is to be
believed, a naval war would find as many holes in
the British navy as the African campaign did in the
British army. Beresford states that coal stores at
important stations are so inadequate that'a fleet
might be unable to move for want of fuel, that the
naval reserve numbers only 19,000 instead of 70,000
men, and that the naval gunners don’t know how
to shoot. Still the chances are that other fleets
and armies are in the same condition, which
would equalise things. The war of 1858 found
both French and Austrian armies in a state of
chaos. The Austrian army was only a little less
chaotic in’66. The French army in 1870 proved
to be a mere mob. The Russian Army in ’7B was
found to be a terribly disconnected machine, and the
Turkish one was worse. The difference between
the Spanish and American fleets in the recent war
was that the condition of the Spanish fleet was
tenth-rate and that of the U.S. fleet third-rate.
The only leading nation which hasn’t been badiv
surprised at the state of its forces some time
during the last 50 years is Prussia.


IMF.
h
md
-*■
ss!
IF F
8M
mm
a
V
HOTEL
HETROFOLE,
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, 10s. 6d, per day, or apartments may be
secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards.
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted on applica-
tion to The Manages.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
plays srr:
French’s Acting Edition.
gds
Rare Books
French Novels
Books the Married
Extra Special Catalogue of
Books Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE . . I
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne I
g
Tails. Fla<its.
FRINGES, Best Natural Curly Hair, 3/6,5/8,
7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each. TAILS' and PLAITS,
20in. loner, 6/6, ; Extra Thick, 7/6; 24in.,
10/6; Extra Thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings Worked Up, 2/6 per oz.
Don’t be misled. Our Plaits and Tails are
twice as thick as sold elsewhere at same
price. Send Color of Hair. “ Only ONE
Address”:— W. H. WIGZELL,
110 WILLIAM-ST., Comer of Palmer-at.,
Sydney. Cable trams loill sto/p at door. All
work guaranteed. Illustrated catalogue
post free. Prompt attention given to coun-
Wigs made on shortest notice.
try orders.
RHEUMALGIA
mhe new cure for Rheumatism, Lumbago, Gout, Sciatica,
J- Neuralgia, and similar ailments
IS
a lotion compounded from herbs
PURELY AUSTRALIAN.
3s. 6d. rosT frisk.
Rheumalgia Remedy Co., Bathurst,
Wholesale depot for N.S.W. and Q.
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
A
World-wide
Reputation
Unapproached
and
Unsullied
from
Generation
to
Generation.
THE
OLD BATTLE AXE BRAND.
V
Ui, ,<ll
S '■ ■
;JV
in
V>~^ A J|,
m
mi
\f
4<kB*
WSJ
\v
H
ISM
vK.>
Villi?
itftWFE-G^
air
it
19
its
it
AARON’S
Exchange Hotel Co->
SYDNEY.
The system of paying for Room only and
Meals as required is adopted here.
£3 3s. per Week
9s. per Day
GORDON MARE, Secretary.
W. W. AIKEN, Manager,
28 Years in the Establishment.
Please mention this paper when ordering.
RH
n
dsg
A BEAUTIFUL SOLID COLD RING SET WITH A CENUINE CARNET NO MONEY WANTED.
Simply send us vour name and address, plainly written on a postal carl, and we will send you 20 packages
of our Imperishable Violet Perfume in a box-free of all expense to you. You then sell the periume among
your friends and neighbours at 6d. a package (if you can), and when sold you remit us the money vouhaye
collected and we will send you Absolutely tree for your trouble the above described ring, which is Stamped
and warranted Solid Cold, set with a Cenuine Carnet. Remember you have no duty or chargee of any kind to
pay—both the perfume and Premiums are sent absolutely tree of all charges our object in making this
marvellous offer, and giving such unusual fine premiums, is to get our very superior perfume into the hands
or the public immediately, as we are satisfied that everyone will be so well pleased with it that they will gladly
recommend it to their friends-we have hundreds of unsolicited testimonials You simply send your name
and address plainly written on a post card, an<? we will send the perfume. No money required. We take all risk.
Goods returnable if not sold. Remember we pay all shipping Erp-ntet.
SUPPLY CO., 38 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W. Dept. b.A
Please mention this paper when ordering.
MACHINERY \
MERCHANTS, ]
WHOLESALE IRONMONGERS, ;
And Importers of
Engines, Boilers, Pumps, Wood-
working Machines, Engineers’
Supplies, Blacksmith and
Coachbuilders’ Requisites, Pipes
and Fittings, Boiler Tubes, Cun
Metal and Brassware for Steam
and Water, Household and
Builders’ Ironmongery, Agri-
cultural Implements, Horse
Gears, Chaff Cutters, &o.
an Hi i
MAtXirttßV Storb<
-){ead~Offic.e
Brisbam
iPniffrtfriWi
ESI
WBxm
SMELLIE&tfjpS^
V.-t
sm>
am
BS» V
Bulk. Stout..
\alleV
North QueenslaKd BranciK W '\Yyv\ -t
A\\\V 1
BRISBANE.
North Queensland Warehouse:
Stanley & Sturt Sts., Townsville.
Also at
New Broad St. House, London, E.C.
AGENTS FOR
ROBEY & CO., Portable
Steam Engines.
W. B. HAIGH & CO., Saw-
mill Machinery.
GWYNNE’S Centrifugal Pumps
PEARN’S Manchester Steam
Pumps.
DUPLEX Steam Pumps.
SCOTT’S Steel Mining Ropes.
FRANK VIAL & SON Leather
[ Belting.
WAUKEGAN Barb Wire.
PLANET JR. Implements.
AER MOTOR Windmills.
KEROSENE OIL ENGINES.
j±_ BOON TO PLUG
SMOKERS.
WILLS’S
World
Renowned
CAPSTAN
Is now supplied IN PLUG FORM in addition to Cut.
TRY IT!
Obtainable at all leading Tobacconists and Storekeepers.
TRY


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. °?.-No. ] 1~4.
SATURDAY. MATCH 29. 1902.
Prior
CARTOONLETS.
X x%
X # x
/ # «X # c
/ XX f E
/ JLL
/ tCJM
o° /// .
7 ulf^>uT7Z
y <<2 7~ j" o <=>
rt af 7’“ , ' c^
1 r J -H-Kent's by burglarj
-— 2>^<Zy
/m
X~l ° X—
n / ,^<sV-tr ? Snt^zrcK^cl^
C-SrrtcLt’er; <(j> « y
<gj>< Glief JoTt/cet
C I cl J
/o>^ 5
Y L e 1 5 fou'? d II) -o-v
v;f - w-W f-' u 7
!)■■■, r
R<lSuiyzS bujirj<i3S g<\-
or ex fill o 5


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney
New South W ales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... r
Half-yearly ... na r
Quarterly ... ... u o o
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
IVestralia and Ma,o r Hand.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Tnterprovincial N ewspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. 1 Vales (except Queensland) is now
ei, with 3s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the .subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland,
Owing to the imposition of 1 \d. postage, the subscription
to Tub ' Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease o Tin some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—}\d. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight-now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICK.
By sending direct to Tiie Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling— with, postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed tr William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to 3 F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the •‘Correspondence” column aU contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded ■as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand, that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Blade and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid 'for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
.— i.e. , any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under winch
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus ; and Street & Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. — L. E. Lee, Palace Hotel.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., S Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., n Hout-st., Capetown. Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
T^w'^xxlleix^L.
SATURDAY, MARCH 29, 1902.
Keep On!
Courage yet, my brother or my sister !
Keep on—Liberty is to be subserv’d whatever occurs ;
That is nothing that is quelled by one or two failures, or
any number of failures,
Or by the indlfEerence or ingratitude of the people, or by
any unfaithfulness,
Or the show of the tushes of powers, soldiers, cannon,
penal statutes.
What we believe in waits latent forever through all the
continents,
Invites no one, promises nothing 1 , sits in calmness ana
light, is positive and composed, knows no discourage-
ment,
Waiting patiently, waiting its time.
Wai.t Whitman.
» . •
The Australian Nationalist to-day needs,
more than all else, courage. The times are
out of joint to those who believe in Liberty.
On every side looms some cause for dis-
couragement. Hardly- perceivable is the
glimmer of hope ahead. Federation, which
promised to stimulate and re-create National
sentiment, to cast in an indelible stamp a
new nation, has so far shown a foiled
purpose. Militarism rages with reckless
bloodthirstiness. Liberty of platform and
press is seriously encroached upon. The
Constitution is twisted back towards the old-
time fetishes of king-power and priest-
power. Those in authority bow the knee to
Rimmon and abandon the democratic faith.
Those from whom authority proceeds are
careless of their rights, indifferent to their
liberties, ungrateful to their patriots.
*
But courage yet ! If the idea, the aspira-
tion of a free Australian People, is to be
quelled by its first serious trouble, die out
and fail on meeting its first struggle, then
that idea, that aspiration is nothing—was
from the first nothing. And that ic is impos-
sible to believe. The sentiment which showed
itself at Eureka, which was strong enough to
shake off the shackles of convictism from the
land, which sent back from the shores of a
White Australia the Asiatic taint in the face
of Imperial opposition, was not a weak
impulse, such as could be strangled by the
treachery of one man, or of many men, or
bv the indifference of one generation. That
spirit of Liberty which raised Australia
from the charnel-house of convictism, which
so long kept her shores clean for a white
race, is not one doomed to die by the first
great unfaithfulness of its appointed guar-
dians. It will in time re-assert itself in the
people and in their leaders ; and Australia
resume a purpose which has been not frus-
trated—merely delayed.
■» * * *
Many blame Federation for the growth in
Australia of militarism, of King power, of
Conservative tyranny. But it is a matter of
coincidence, rather than of cause and effect.
Through a long series of years the bestowal
of English titles and the upgrowth of a local
snobbish plutocracy had been sapping at the
foundations of Australian’s independent
spirit. The men who had stood on Circular
Quay to resist, by force if necessary, the
landing of English convicts, or who auda-
ciously raised the flag of Freedom at Eureka
rather than submit to tyranny and oppres-
sion, were succeeded by others, who spurned
the crosa which the patriot must always bear,
and aspired to the gilded emblems of English
Royal favor. The race of sturdy miners,
farmers, bushmen, was leavened with an
element of financiers —mainly of foreign
origin—princes in the shoddy trade, lords of
usury, barons of beer. Their money, united
with the royal gauds of England to corrupt our
public men, and Parliament, more and more
each year reflected, not the aspirations of
Australia, but the huckstering, truckling
spirit of the parasites on Australia.
This spirit did not begin, but .only
came to a head, with Federation.
Without the union it would just
as surely, if somewhat less quickly, have
grown to maturity, and there would have
been then six Jingo-Imperialistic plutocracies
for Liberty to combat instead of one.
Federation has given to the evil one neck,
and thus made it the more easily destructible.
At the same time, it has given to Australian
Nationalism one aim, one hope, Before the
union the national aspiration was hobbled in
one State by the slower progress of another.
Now all can move together, and when
Liberty “latent through all the continent”
awakes to its task, it can move forward with
a united irresistible people to its clearly-
indicated goal.
« » * *
Federation, in reality, did nothing to assist
the Jingoistic and slavish spirit in Aus-
tralian public life—only by concentrating
and centralising made it more obvious. It
was, as a matter of fact, the S’African war
which forced to quick maturity a growth
which had long been sedulously fostered by
English Tory influence. The outbreak of
that war marked a crisis in Australian public
life. The Boers, an independent, civilised,
but small people, had flaunted English
aggression as the Victorian miners had done
at Eureka, as the State of New South Wales
had done rvhen it turned back from Circular
Quay an English convict transport. The true
issue, however, did not come clearly before
the Australian people. Their leaders de-
ceived them, newspapers deceived them ; and,
instead of declaring for Liberty, throwing in
the scale the weight of influence of free
colonies on behalf of Freedom and Right, they
declared for the bloody suppression of claims
for which their own struggles should Have
taught them full sympathy. That was the
great false step, from which we have marched
on to militarism, suppression of free speech,
and the revival of the royal “divine-right ”
fetish, the general growth of Conservative
tyranny, which makes Australia to-day more
closely resemble England in the times of the
Tudors than a free Commonwealth in the
20th century. It was a sinister mistake,
the adoption of a Jingo policy by Australia,
pregnant with mischief for the hereafter, but
not an irrevocable abandonment of our
Freedom.
* * * #
To-day is the day of Judas and of
Jingoism. It may be a long, long day, and
its setting be dark and troublous. But most
surely there will be a morrow of Loyalty—
loyalty to Australia—and of Liberty. The
failure to raise even a noteworthy protest
against the sacrifice of our manhood in
an unholy cause notwithstanding—the
failure to rouse the people against encroach-
ments of the kingly power and of military
insolence notwithstanding—the ingratitude
of the people to those who strive to show
them the right path notwithstanding—
Liberty waits patiently, and will, in time,
justify her advocates. To the Remnant then
of Australian freemen—the men who dare to
brave persecution for right’s sake—Keep
on ! Keep alive the sacred embers. Fight
bravely, earnestly, knowing no discourage-
ment, waiting patiently for the inevitable
turn of the tide towards Freedom.
The Unemployed.
His Ex. the Governor-General accidentally ran
against a deputation of unemployed in Mel-
bourne, one day last week, and offered it
some sympathy and certain very dead old
platitudes. The deputation had come to in-
dignantly reproach both the State and Federal
Governments for not borrowing a lot of money
and starting some unprofitable public work or
other to find them employment and keep them in
wages. In this respect it is felt that Premier
Peacock hasn’t done his duty. The N.S.W.
Government has borrowed £6,000,000 or £7,000,000
within the last 12 months with which to find work
for the people and keep the unemployed spectre
off the doorstep—a sum sufficient for the main-
tenance of about 70,000 men and their families,
or, say, one-quarter of the population of the
State. The Victorian Government has borrowed
only about half-a-million in the same period.
And it being an understood thing that Australia
can’t be expected to find sustenance even for its
present handful of people out of its alleged
“magnificent natural resources,” and that they
must live to a great extent upon State charity
(thinly disguised as public works and paid for
with foreign loans), the community naturally feels
aggrieved with Premier Peacock. And Peacock
replies that this is not a good time for borrowing,
and that the State is tottering under the weight
of its present debt without incurring any more.
Also, he can’t be expected to do public works
without loans for three reasons : (1) It would be
a shocking violation of all precedent to do any
public work without borrowing the money for it ;
(2) The present revenue, being largely used up m
paying interest on existing debts (incurred to a
great extent to postpone the unemployed
problem in previous years) doesn’t leave any
margin for public works ; (3) That, though such
people as Englishmen, Dutchmen, Frenchmen, and
other ignominious small fry pay far heavier taxa-
tion than we do, yet this country of “ unexampled
natural resources ” can’t possibly do likewise and
thus have a margin for public works expenditure.
So there is a deadlock.
* * * *
The unemployed deputation which laid its woes
before the Governor-General didn’t put things
exactly like this, but it asked him, as a man and a
brother, if it wasn’t a shocking thing that Premier
Peacock didn’t float a big loan in order to start
public works on a large scale and postpone the
difficulty for another winter anyhow. And His
Ex. remarked that he was surprised to find men
unemployed in a new country like Australia, and a
country of such great natural resources, and dished
up the good old platitudes in a kindly spirit.
There is a vague and shapeless but apparently in-
curable idea that the newness of a_ country is in
itself an edible substance, and that in a new coun-
try there are more coppers in a shilling than
there are in an old one. And Australia has been
so long and so persistently described as the Land
of the Golden Fleece, and other like expressions,
that the theory of its amazing natural wealth has
become a permanent superstition. The public
has become so dead sure about that amazing
natural wealth that it has borrowed about
£200,000,000 on the security of it, and even the
spectacle of about one-sixth of the population
living directly or indirectly upon loans hasn’t
convinced it that either there is something very
far wrong with the alleged wealth or else with the
management of it. This country has even annexed
the Southern Cross as an asset, as if tha,t were an
exclusively Australian property, and it isn’t at all
certain that it doesn’t regard that staggery con-
stellation also as being, in some sense, a security
for its debts.
* • * *
The only natural resources, using the word in
the Foreign-traders’ sense, that can be perman-
ently relied upon are pasture and agriculture.
Gold is only a temporary asset. ' And Australia,
remarkable as it may seem in view of the Golden
Fleece legend, has always been a comparative
failure, both agriculturally and pastorally. Aus-
tralia’s flocks and herds have been decreasing
lamentably during late years, but even in its best
days the State with the biggest flocks and herds
hardly kept ahead of the United Kingdom—a
mere speck on the map, with its surface mostly
occupied by towns, cities, or agricultural land. In
1896 the record of Australia’s comparative failure
as a Land of the Golden Fleece and of other sun-
dries, compared with some other countries in this
manner:—
Area Live Stock (Sheep,
Square Cattle, Horses,
Miles. and Swine.)
United States.. ..'2,939,000 J 40,500,000
Russia in Europe .. 2,095,600 108,200,000
Argentina .. .. 622,969 107,800,000
New South Wales .. 310,700 51,270,000
United Kingdom .. 120,979 47,320,000
Germany .. • • 208,830 47,200,000
France.. .. 204,090 43,930,000
Austria.. •• .. 240,000 41,300,000
Queensland .. .. 668,497 26,650,000
Spain 197,670 21,400,000
Victoria .. .. 87,884 15,780,000
South Australia .. 903,690 6,840,000
Westralia .. .. 975,920 2,500,000
Tasmania .. .. 26,'215 1,840,000
* * * *
The Commonwealth shows up, on the whole,
very moderately. It is larger than the United
States, and 900,000 square miles larger than
European Russia, and its total flocks and herds
showed up in 1896 to less than 105,000,000 —they
are now down to about 80,000,000. Therefore, in
a pastoral sense, it produced very much worse
results than either of these countries, and this
despite the fact that Australia is mainly pastoral,
while Russia and the United States are very
largely agricultural, and only pastoral in a secon-
dary sense. New South Wales is the great animal-
raising State bf Australia—the Land of the Golden
Fleece par excellence. Yet even it, in proportion
to area, makes a worse showing than Argentina,
Great Britain, Germany, France, or Austria,
and also worse than many other coun-
tries not included in the above list—all
old crowded lands, where a little pastoral
business is done in an . accidental sort of way.
Queensland, in proportion to area, showed up,
in 1896, worse than any old crowded foreign State
on the list, and yet in 1896 Queensland was nearlfj
at the summit of its prosperity. It never even
approached the United Kingdom,- Austria, Franee';
or Germany in a pastoral sense. Yet among;
what the Foreign-traders love to call Australia’s
natural industries the pastoral one is undoubtedly
the chief. Agriculture is nowhere, or thereabouts.
All the Commonwealth last year only grew about
as much wheat in its area of 2,972,000 square miles
as Roumania —a place of 50,000 square miles and
with not very much more than the Common-
wealth’s population.
• * * *
Things like these cast a gloom over the Foreign-
trader’s theory about this country’s great and per-
manent natural resources. There is no reason
why Australia should not become a great manu-
facturing country, but as an agricultural country
it appears to be a very bad failure, and as regards
its great pastoral industry it is a very moderate
success indeed. The Land of the Golden Fleecfe
is mostly bunkum, and very bad bunkum at that.
Unless Australia can do very much better in the
sheep and bullock sense than it did in its best days
—the days before the drought and the tick and
the worst of the rabbit plague- -its population
doesn’t require to increase so very much before it
reaches the point where the country will only
about supply itself in this line of industry. It is
because of the hopelessness of the attempt to make
a great and permanently prosperous pastoral and
agricultural region of a continent with only two
big rivers, and those rivers which can be walked
across a great part of the time, that The Bulle hx
believes in Protection—far more Protection than
even Victoria ever had. When the gold gives out
and the loans give out, going on the land is a poor
thing to trust to.
« • * •
Manufactures stimulated into existence by pro-
hibitive tariffs and bonuses and all manner of
“coddling” may be unnatural and unprofitable
industries, as the Foreign-trade party asserts, but
there is great profit in unnatural industries, and
almost all industries are unnatural. Even the pas-
toral and agricultural business started unnaturally
with the introduction of alien seeds and strange
foreign animals. If Australia put absolute pro-
hibitive duties on some articles, of which it now
imports £5,(100,000 per annum, it would naturally
proceed to manufacture these articles, and, even if
they cost £8,000,000 to manufacture, Australia
would still-be £5,000,000 —or more than £5,000,000
—better off, in this fashion :
(1) lb wouldn’t need to withdraw a single man from
pastoral or agricultural pursuits. The new industry could
be carried on by the men who are now clamoring for
relief Works |o keep them from starvation. Therefore the
production Would be wholly extra production.
(2) The country would be saved the cost of supporting
these unemployed—it has to support them somehow, or
else pay the cost of burying them.
(3) There would be £5,000,000 a vear less going out of
the country, therefore the country would have £5,000,000
a year more with which to pay off its foreign obligations.
Even if the locally-manufactured goods cost twice as much
as the imported, the £5,000,000 which used to go out o
the country would still be £5,000,000 saved.
(4) Australia has to use up its waste population some-
how. If it starts what are called “ unprofitable indus-
tries” under Protection it absorbs them, and it at the
same time checks the outflow of money which is draining
this country and driving the Government into the con-
stant flotation of foreign loans to prevent Australia
getting down to a condition in which it will have no
money at all. If it absorbs them by unprofitable
charities and soup-kitchens or by unprofitable public
works then it costs the community a lot of money and
doesn’t diminish the drain on the country’s resources.
* * * *
If Australia had profitable employment for all
its people then Protection would be a foolish idea.
It is no use to take people away from industries
that pay well in order to start industries that may
pay worse. But there is a large section of the
population for which there is no room in the
existing manufacturing industries, and who can't
be employed at growing things which won’t grow
for want of rain, or rearing animals that are dead
from drought. Australia must either find these
people a chance to produce something by starting
new industries, even if they can’t produce so
cheaply as the foreigner, or else support them
while they produce nothing. In the former case
the country is richer by the value of the thing
produced, no matter what it costs. If a pair of
boots can be imported at 45., and a man for whom
no other employment can be found can make the
same pair at Bs., it is cheaper to let him make
them—there is 4s. more wealth in the country
through him doing so, because the 4s. hasn’t gone
abroad to pay for the foreign boots. It is cheaper
to pay him 4s. extra for the boots than 4s. for
sand-shifting, or other useless “relief work” —
exactly 4s. cheaper—the 4s. which would other-
wise go to Germany to pay for the imported
boots. Every man has a right to protest against
establishing unprofitable industries (such as
the making for Bs. of a pair of boots
which could be imported for 45.) if he can
find profitable industries to employ the surplus
population. If he can’t, then he has no case worth
mentioning. So long as a man is employed at
making something useful, even if he makes it
badly and expensively, it pays better than not
having him employed at all. It would even pay
better for a man or a country to make, at a cost of
10s. worth of labor, an article that could be
imported for 6d. than for that man to be unem-
ployed and not make anything—exactly fid. better,
and when the unemployed are with us sixpences
of that kind accumulate.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Lost Ideal.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Is it ever the fate of the worker to wait through
the crafty years
That sap his strength, till faith at length is choked
in fears,
And the head is grey, and the heart astray, in a
mist of tears ?
Has Providence ruled that men shall lie fooled by
the cunning few ?
That Labor shall never the shackles dissever of
statesman and Jew ?
That Labor slir.il never through constant endeavo?
attain to the true ?
Searching for light through the terrible night ol
starless skies,
Our forefathers groped arid stumbled—yet hoped
their children’s eyes
Might some day gaze on the first low rays of the
far sunrise.
But our hearts have turned from the faith we
learned at our father’s knee,
When he slowly spoke through his evening smoke
of Liberty—
When his heart was strong to battle with wrong
/ that we might be free.
His sacred trust we tread in the dust at the beat
of a drum ! _
We flaunt our rags under fluttering flags where
the soldiers come ;
We prattle the story of bloodshed and “glory”
in alley and slum.
Our banners and trollies and trophies were follies
we’ve flung away ;
The buttons and braid of the bloody trade are
ours to-day—
The tools of Labor are rifle and sabre ; its motto,
“To Slay.”
Hurrah ! for a trip in a transport ship, whatever
we’re paid,
And the horrors of war in a land without law save
loot and raid,
And the smouldering farm—and scream of alarm,
with no one to aid.
A yell and a screech for freedom of speech, and a
drunken cheer,
For the Empire’s name, and her glorious shame,
lest we should hear
Through the fume of lies our children’s cries—and
awake to fear.
PEDLAR.


The High Commissionership.
Perth Herald states :
It is now evident that the post of High Commissioner
in London for the Commonwealth is to be given to Sir
John Forrest. The information that he is to be given
the post comes not only from the newspapers in the
eastern States, but also from members of Parliament.
The Herald is a bit previous ; all that is evident
is that Bigjohn Forrest is barracking very hard
for the billet and using all sorts of means to better
his chances. The lazy shiftlessness of the Premier
makes Forrest’s appointment just possible, but
there should be sufficient independence in other
members of the Cabinet to prevent such an out-
rage on Australian sentiment. It is not Australia
of the lag-time, but the Australia of to-day, which
we want to see represented in London. John
Forrest is personally a bluff, good-natured sort
of person, with a fine capacity for getting things
into a mess; but his mental attainments, as well as
his political views, unfit him absolutely for the posi-
tion of Australian representative in London. Social
ambition is the only motive which urges him to be
a (Candidate for the post; and his success would put
Australian interests in the hands of a stout person
with an eager desire to hunt for a bigger title, and
neither the wish nor the capacity to do anything
else. And those interests are by no means unim-
portant. A man is wanted whose intellectual
qualifications will command respect, and will
enable him to stand up against any “bluff ” on
the part of English authorities. Points of differ-
ence will inevitably arise in the near future, with
regard to the Pacific Islands, alien immigration,
the Northern Territory, naval control, and so on,
when Australia will want one thing and England
another. The controversy will always begin by
the declaration on the part of an English
Minister that such and such a thing is “im-
possible,” and it will always end there, if
Australia is represented by an amiable nin-
compoop with the keen desire for a bigger
title. If, on the other hand, our High Com-
missioner is a man of political ability, and of
some diplomatic training, and with the advocate’s
habit of fighting out his case anyhow, it would be
very often found that “impossible” doesn’t mean
much in negotiations between nations. There is
only one name which occurs to us as that
of a man who, by training, by ability, by life
habits, is marked out for the post, and that
man is B. R. Wise. From a Bulletin point
of view, Mr. Wise wouldn’t make an ideal High
Commissioner, because his standpoint would not
be sufficiently Australian, but undoubtedly
he is by far the most able man available, and
probably has as much of the Australian National
spirit as would be permitted in any nominee of
the present Government. Whilst he is available
(and it is generally believed that he would accept
an offer of the post) the discussion of any other
name is a serious reflection on either the honesty
or the mental capacity of the Barton Cabinet.
4
The Proposed Sydney Protectionist
Daily Paper.
The promotion of the mooted new daily paper in
Sydney seems to be mostly in the hands of Mr.
William John Lyne and Mr. Edmund Barton.
Reports of Melbourne progress come linked with
the name of the former as the ’bus-boss Carey of
the new concern; of Sydney progress with thename
of the latter. There are also more Or less definite
rumors that Mr. Austin Chapman is a leading
light in the venture, and that various aldermen
are “getting together a staff,” and : generally
advancing its interests. The Bulletin—
earnestly desirous of seeing established a new
daily paper in Sydney, with an independent
cable-service to Europe, a habit of telling
at least some of the truth in regard to
local politics, and a National policy—looks with
a gloomy eye on all these preparations. A
National daily paper will never be founded by a
mob of politicians, appealing for their capital to
manufacturers and others with a business axe to
grind. Such people may establish a newspaper—
may even, though that is extremely improbable,
establish acommercially-successful newspaper—-but
they will never, never, never build up a National
journal, truthful, honest and independent. It is
against the nature of . things. An honest news-
paper must be the fearless critic of the politicians,
the hated enemy of nine-tenths of them—not their
tool. If, as a matter of business, people care to
risk their money in a paper run by politicians for
politicians, that is their own business, and at
least they will give a few hard-up newspaper
men jobs for a while. But let no one put
cash into such a concern under the idea
that thereby they will better the community,
advance the National Cause, purify public life;
for such a delusion would have a sorrowful end-
ing. The grudge which Mr. Barton and Mr.
Lyne have against the present Sydney morning
papers is well-founded enough ; for at present
these papers consistently misrepresent both on
the fiscal question (though willing enough to
barrack for them in matters of Jingoism). But a
paper promoted by Mr. Barton and Mr. Lyne,
whilst undoubtedly it would please these gentle-
men, would do no better service to the people
than existing organs. It is a People’s newspaper—
not a politicians’newspaper—that is required; and
for ourselves we are astonished that Mr. Bill
Lyne is so anxious for a new paper when he has
shown himself so able in “influencing” an exist-
ing one.
♦
The Religions of N.S. Wales.
Mr. T. A. Coghlan is the first of the Australian
statists to publish facts gleaned from the census
of 1901 as to the religions of the people. His very
detailed return shows that there are something
more than 144 Christian sects growing on the
Cornstalk’s lone and dusty patch of the earth ;
144 are detailed, right down to the sect which
describes itself as “Pleading for the Return of
the New Testament, Christian in Faith and Prac-
tice,” with just one adherent; then other churches,
of less importance than that, are summed up as
“other Christians not classifiable.” This con-
temptuous grouping is possibly due to the fact
that they have only a fraction of an adherent,
or, mayhap, to the. consideration that some
church with one adherent persists in describing
itself by a title running into 2200 words. Churches
with only one adherent have a failing in that
direction. But there are very many sects with a
congregation of one which find mention ; for in-
stance: “Saint” and “Believer in God spelt
Good.” “Christian, Acts XI., 26” is a church
with two members, and “Assembly of God” has
three. Dealing with the larger sects, one joyful
fact recorded is that the Salvation Army—that
hideous combination of soulless sweating, dis-
gusting cant and discordant noise—is a dwindling
pest. In 1891 it had 10,315 adherents, In 1901,
with a largely-increased population, it has only
9,585. Ten years ago its adherents formed 0.92 per
cent, of the community, while they now form only
0.71. The Church of England boasts the largest
numerical increase for the decennium, having
623,131 professed adherents in 1901, as against
503,054 in 1891; the percentage of its ad'.iere.ity
to the total population was 44 '75 per cent, in 1891,
and 45 '99 per cent, in 1901. There is no doubt of
the growing popularity of Anglicanism in Aus-
tralia. The Church of England makes no
awkward demands on its adherents; it is suffi-
ciently broad to keep within its fold even those
who don’t believe in anything; and it has a solid
air of Respectability which leads the man who is
really an Anythingarian to describe himself as an
Anglican. In snort, it is the refuge for
the man who is too tired to have any par-
ticular religion, and being too tired even to
give an explanation to that effect he passes as
an Anglican. Roman Catholics show a nume-
rical increase, and also a very slight proportional
increase, the first for three decenniums. In 1871
R.C.’s made up 29'29 of the population ; in 1881
the proportion had fallen to 27'63, and in 1891 to
25'53; now, in 1901, it is 25'63. Hebrews keep
the same percentage (0'48) as in 1871, and number
altogether 6447. Indefinite religions total among
them 128 followers, and include such items as Ark
of the Covenant, 1; Canopist, 2; Secret Indepen-
dent Believer, 1; Celtic, 1 (surely not E.W.O’S. !).
There is no such thing in the State as a Calli-
thumpian, but there are 11 Mormons (7 males
and 4 females, if you please), and 660 Latter Day
Saints, exactly half of whom are saintesses. Alto-
gether a community of less than 1,400,000 souls
runs more than 144 Christian religions, 15 non-
Christian religions, 33 indefinite religions, and
several different sorts of Agnostics. Unfor-
tunately, there is no hope of an export trade in
religions.
«
Prison Labor.
Writes an indignant correspondent:
How would the K.O. who barracks for long-sentenced
prisoners in N.S.W. gaols being taught trades take it if it
were proposed to teach them law and qualify them to stare
practice when they get out? Goose and gander should
be fed alike.
Which is a very common and also a very absurd
argument. Every man in gaol who doesn’t know
a productive trade should be taught one. Even if
he knows a productive trade, it may be one that
he can’t follow while in gaol, and in that case he
should be taught another. If he knows a produc-
tive trade when he comes out he may work at it
and thereby add to the country’s wealth. If he
comes out and becomes a lawyer he won’t add to
the country’s wealth, for lawyers are not produc-
tive, and if he comes out and remains a criminal
he is not only unproductive of wealth but he
probably destroys wealth and damages wealth-
producers, rendering them incapable of follow-
ing their calling. In a country which im-
ports some £30,000,000 worth of goods annually
from outside there is room to turn 100,000
criminals into productive workmen with-
out overstocking the market with goods—it is
only a question of shutting out imports. Not
only should every criminal be taught some trade
while in gaol, but he should be compelled to work
hard at that trade, and the product should be sold
in the open market outside—but only at the
current price of the free man’s product, so as not.
to reduce wages. The trades should be varied, so
that the rush of reformed criminals won’t congest
any one of them. The imports should be so
reduced by a vigorous tariff as to make it certain
that the criminal’s competition won’t deprive the
free man of employment. And the prison trade
should be taken seriously; the criminal should,
if possible, be made to earn enough at it
to pay the cost of his capture and trial,
and his board and lodging while under de-
tention, and to leave him something over
with which to start the world when he comes
out. In short he should be made to pay his own
way, ’ i stead of being a burden on the outside
worke. So long as the Commonwealth imports
£30,000,400 worth annually from abroad—so long
as there is £30,000,000 worth of work waiting to
to be done —only the most incredible mismanage-
ment can make the products of gaol labor a dan-
ger to the free workman.
,— *
Arthur Griffith Kicks Back.
Arthur Griffith, M.L.A., hits out hard and
neatly in his reply to the Jingo electors of Wara-
tah (N.S.W.) who,called on him to resign his seat:
Your letter practically informs me that some of the
electors of Waratah met one day last month, and passed
some resolutions condemning me and calling upon me to
resign my seat in Parliament.
In reply, I beg to state in the most respectful manner
possible that I am really pleased to hear it, considering
the personnel of the committee that organised, and the
speakers that addressed, the meeting. Almost the whole
of the members of your committee are either mere popu-
larity-hunters or men who have ever been the bitter
enemies of the Labor movement, and I hope in the future
to give them still greater cause for their malignant hos-
tility towards me.
I hope I am not expected to take seriously a request to
resign my seat, made by men who, for eight years past,
have striven by every means in their power to deprive me
of it.
At least one of the resolutions meets with my entire
approval. I refer to that which condemns the slanders
on our troops uttered by the German press, and by other
persons enjoying the protection of the British flag.
The latter portion of this resolution is certainly
apropos, as the foulest slanders that have been
printed against the Australian and British troops are
those which have appeared in the columns of the Jingo
Press of Australia. I have a cutting from the Newcastle
Herald giving the details of the hanging of a woman in
the Transvaal by some New Zealand and Australian
troops on the suspicion that she had fired at them, and
one from another local paper stating that a New South
Wales trooper, along with some Highlanders, wantonly
mutilated the bodies of dead Boers near Graspan, and
finally plundered them, cutting off their fingers to
get their rings, &c. In these cases the names are
given with all the abominable details without a word of
censure or disapproval, but rather, it seems to me, in a
spirit of approbation. I take these two instances out of
hundreds published in our Australian papers, and I will
ask you if there occurred anywhere in the gutter-press of
Germany any such foul slanders on the good name of our
troops. Of course, I do not believe that these incidents
ever occurred, for I am convinced that, if they had, Lord
Kitchener would have shot the culprits like dogs—but
what are we to think of the papers that publish them ?
In conclusion, I desire to say that those of your
speakers who stated that our petition contains any anti-
British sentiments or slanders on our troops, lied, and
what is more, on this occasion they knew it.
»
Wanted: A Sanitary Autocrat.
An indignant correspondent, “J.A.C.,” who
evidently doesn’t understand politics—State or
municipal—in N.S.W. :
Re published facts as to the condition of Kidman’s
Buildings, Sydney. They were in the same state two
years ago, when the plague attacked the same premises,
and have been allowed thus to remain ever since. What
then have the City Council’s “ duly-qualified ” sanitary
inspectors been doing meanwhile ?
For the information of “J.A.C.”:—There is" no
possible hope of effective sanitary administration
in N.S.W. under the present system. The
municipal authorities can’t be trusted to keep
things clean. The municipal mind seems—as a
rule—to revel in filth, and the average municipality
doesn’t trouble to keep even its own property
decently clean. Whenever a plague-outbreak
compels an independent sanitary investigation of
any town, it is generally found that some of the
worst filth-spots are directly owned by the - town.
council. The State Government cannot be relied
on to keep things clean, because it is also a grave
sanitary offender on its own property, and is
responsible in N.S.W. for such disease-dealing
blunders as the Bathurst and Tam worth con-
taminated water supplies. It is not merely a
question of the influence of dirty-minded property-
owners, though that influence is probably
responsible for the existence of most of the
sanitary scandals in Sydney and elsewhere : there
seems to be inherent in the elected person a
generous tolerance, if not an actual love,
of dirty drains and filthy backyards. The
only method of getting the cities and towns
of this State clean seems to be the appointment
of a Sanitary Autocrat with the powers and
privileges of a Chief Justice, or a Sanitary Board
of Commissioners on the lines of the Railway
Commission. A sanitary autocrat would be best
because, when even two or three men are assembled
together, there seems, from experience, to be often
a mental infection which leads to toleration of
dirt. But an autocrat, with medical and adminis-
trative training, a cold grey man without pity
and without rich relations holding city property,
so well-paid and so well-minded as to be above
suspicion of bribery— he might keep the city and
the State clean, ruling in matters of sanitation
with a rod of iron, absolute Czar of all health
officers, responsible for his actions only to a vote
of both Houses of Parliament. And The Bulle-
tin would take its hat off to him in the street, as
the most useful dignitary on the continent.
♦
“A Melbourne Mother” hits “Gumleaf ” where
it will do him most good :
The murmurings of “Gumleaf” (in “ Plain English,”
8/3/’O2) against the callousness of woman, incite me to
write, in a humble, unobtrusive way, and point out that
he is begging the question. Why doesn’t he define “ cal-
lousness”? Chinese women throw girl-babies over the
wall, and bind up the feet of their still-worse-treated girls
in torturing bandages. Are they callous? We say
“yes”; Celestials say “no.” Their public opinion
differs from ours in its standards, that’s all. Besides,
when babies fall into tubs of boiling-hot water, it’s not
callousness that leaves the vessels there; it’s just
plain, ordinary drink. Sober mothers don’t let
their infants fall about promiscuously. But too
many women, although not drunkards within the
meaning of the Act, muddle themselves with the too-
frequent jug of beer from the nearest pub., and Provi-
dence, who’s always on the look-out to be spiteful, does
the rest. Woman is not “callous,” to her children at all
events. Happy is the child who has no history. The
papers which record the heart-rending child-murders and
burnings and scaldings are silent about the thousands
of well-cared-for and dotingly-watched-over babies, and
these are the overwhelming majority. Take a walk down
Smith-street or Bridge-road, or Chapel-street, where the
working-class women wheel their go-carts of an
afternoon —you can’t help but notice that, of the
hundreds of children, hardly one is ugly or neglected
or shabby. Like E. W. iEsop’s elephant, “ I am a mother
myself,” and know what amount of genuine hard graft it
requires to turn out two or three children with hair
brushed, shoes polished, faces and pinafores clean. How
many of those elaborate little bonnets and frocks do the
patient mothers iron during the week ? And remember
these women do everything for themselves, scrub, wash,
iron, cook, look after husband and babies, and then when
perhaps one infant in thousands falls into a tub, up go
hands and eyes and “ Oh, the callousness of women 1”
*
Randwick Children’s Asylum (Sydney) has too
much money for its present needs. The asylum (a
huge building erected on Govemmentland, in which
£lOO,OOO of Government money is sunk) is largely
endowed by private funds, but lacks sufficient
inmates. When N.S.W. Parliament adopted
the boarding-out-system for State children, it
decreed that any institution receiving Govt,
subsidy was liable to have its inmates taken away
and boarded out. One result was the emptying
of Randwick Asylum. The directors thereupon
decided to drop the Government subsidy, and no
further claims were received from the boarding-
out department. But the system of immuring
children for years within the walls of an asylum
has fallen into such disrepute that the society
cannot fill its large building. All efforts of the
Government to acquire the building and grounds
have been frustrated, and the proposal “to
resume Randwick Asylum” is now a hoary joke
in the Chief Secretary’s Department. The
directors have, however, put forward a
new scheme —that the police should arrest every
child found begging, flower-selling, or singing
in Sydney streets, and hand them over to the
asylum. This does not commend itself to the
authorities. The Bulletin suggests that the
building be turned into a Foundling Asylum, and
thus save citizens from stumbling over babies’
bodies as they go home o’ nights. It would fill
up quickly enough then.
— : *
Federal Attorney-General Deakin’s second-read-
ing speech on the Judiciary Bill was one of the
best he‘ has ever delivered; He spoke for 3h."
25min., and, of course, in that time got off a lot of
spell-binding nonsense calculated to make the
thoughtless sit up and ejaculate “Wonderful,”
“Beautiful! ” If Deakin could but suppress his
peacock delight in contemplating the spread of his
own tail of eloquence he would be an effective
debater, for he makes his points clearly and
strongly when he gets on to them. He hit the
spot exactly when he claimed that there should be
no delay in establishing the Federal High Court
in order to prevent foreign English courts getting
to business on a democratic constitution with
which they are not likely to have any sympathy.
In vigorous language Deakin pointed out that it
would be a grave mistake to allow the British
courts to give the first interpretations to our
constitution. To continue to work the Federal
legal business through the State courts with an
appeal to the Privy Council he characterised as
“ the administration of a Federal system on pro-
vincial lines.” That touches the heart of the
matter. To allow the Privy Council to give the
first decisions under the constitution would be a
foreign administration of our Federal system ; to
allow the State courts to do the same work would
be a provincial administration.
«
Australian barrackers for the P. and O. Company
constantly say that it is not by reason of their
cheapness that coolies are employed on the mail-
boats. Listen to Sir Thomas Sutherland, chair-
man of the company, at last annual meeting :
Indian seamen and firemen are an absolute necessity to
this company in connection with the carrying on of their
business, and I say, with all respect for legislators in
Australia, that these measures appear to me to be rather
of a short-sighted character, because if these disadvantages
are to be imposed upon us, and upon others, it follows we
must be recouped by higher rates of passage money and a
higher subsidy.
*
The registration of a second N.S.W. Shearers’
Union seems, on the surface, to be a smart move on
the part of pastoralist employers to improve their
chances in the forthcoming settlement, by N.S.W.
Arbitration Court, of the industrial conditions of
the pastoral industry. The original Shearers’
Union (the A.W.U.) has demanded a 25 per cent,
increase in rates this season, and some other con-
cessions in re the contract system. The new
Shearers’ Union professes to be satisfied with the
old rate of pay, and does not make such large de-
mands for the limitation of “ freedom of contract.”
Obviously, if the Arbitration Court has before it
on the one side the employers and a section of the
employees, on the other the A.W.U., the
position of that Union will not be so strong
as if the issue were between it (as presumably
representing all the workers) and the Pastoralists’
Union alone. Perhaps the A.W.U. will retort in
kind by promoting a second union of such em-
ployers as favor the granting of their claims. The
Arbitration Court will need to keep a very keen
eye open if it is not to be pretty extensively bam-
boozled by more or less bogus organisations. The
Bulletin does not wish to infer that the new
Shearers’ Union is a bogus body, only that it is a
somewhat remarkable organisation, since it objects
to ask a court of justice whether, as a matter of
justice, its members are entitled to an increase in
wages. But that the bogus-union game will be
played by both employers and workmen is ciear :
it should be the business of the Arbitration Court
to see that it is played in vain, or the Arbitration
Act will be stultified.
♦
Westralian mine managers are rejoicing over an
amendment of the Employers’-liability law, mainly
because they now know better where they are.
The biggest bill they can get for a man is £4OO
(dirt-cheap compared with, say, a horse, when you
consider their respective working lines and the
earning capacity of each); for totally or partially
smashing-up a man, £3OO (dirt-cheap, too, when
you consider how long a smashed-up man may
live and how much he may eat and drink and
wear). Also, a clause of the old mining law has
been knocked out which ought to have stood—that
holding an accident to be prima-facie evidence of
owner’s or manager’s neglect. Anyhow, the onus
ought to be on the manager to prove that his
workings and his methods were reasonably safe,
and that it wasn’t through their unsafety that an
accident occurred. In other words, an accident
challenges his methods, and lie ought to be obliged
to defend them.
»
Dr. Maynard Pain, son of Canon Pain (of
Darlinghurst, Sydney), and lately a successful
superintendent of Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney,
goes to Cairo as a medical missionary. At his
valedictory meeting, he said that he had been told
he need not go so far as Egypt when his own
country could put up with a few medical mis-
sionaries. Still, he felt he ought to go. There
are three things that beguile the missionary to far
lands : (1) The glamor of remoteness —the distant
heathen looks green ; (2) the glamor of change,
romance, new scenery, old ruins, old historical
associations, old towers, old cities, and old his-
torical races of niggers; (3) the satisfaction of
going to a country where the dominant white man
can pose as a superior being, while, in the Aus-
tralian backblox, he would be merely regarded
with good-humored contempt as the sky-pilot.
And these three things make up one vague yearn-
ing which he mistakes for a Divine call. It is
only the same sort of Divine call which sends men
cohentingenteering.
Some Plague Items.
* * Plague funk ” is not so general in Sydney in 1902
as it was in 1900, when wild herds of people rushed
the Health Office to be inoculated, and every man,
woman or child with an undigested morsel giving
stomach-twinges rushed to hospital to be
diagnosed for plague. Still, it is pretty general,
and the scientific exhortations of the doctors are
listened to with reverence.
* • * *
One in authority speaks : “One of the greatest
blunders imaginable is that perfect cleanliness
will stamp out the plague. It won’t. One may
live in a perfectly sanitary house, but if scraps of
food that will attract rats are left about the
plague-laden flea may reach the human denizens
all the same. Fleas like plenty of dust. Rats
like plenty of rubbish, and dirty, littered premises
invite rats; and dusty floors, musty carpets, and
things like that harbor the fleas that may have
just left diseased rats. Therefore, place all
garbage in rat-proof tins, and sweep and disinfect
and make the home untenable to fleas.”
* * •+ 0
Said that owners of certain business premises
affected by plague in 1900, which were not repaired
in accordance with the instructions of the health
authorities, and have been closed owing to
another outbreak this year, are going to ask for
compensation for the loss incurred. The com-
pensation they deserve would be at the end of
a long rope over a lamp-post—one end attached
to the compensation and the other to the necks of
the guilty parties. Both g.p. and compensation
to be about 18in. above ground.
* * * *
' ’ The most plague-scared people in Sydney are
drapers. As a class they have not much to fear, for
in a city of antique refuse-boxes rats are seldom
driven to eat shoddy. The man who literally
carries his life in his socks, and knows not the day
nor the hour when a plaguey flea may sample him,
and, sampling, leave him with a passport for
Heaven, or when he may encounter with his
hands some bubonic-rat-infected goods, is the
Eroduce-merchant’s employee—the fellow who
umps chaff and pollard and so on from the back
of the yard to the front of the shop. All produce-
stores in Sydney seem to be rat-infested, and
where the rats are there will be found the plague.
But up to date no increase in the wages of produce-
store employees has been reported.
* * * m
One eminent draper hurries out of town when a
fresh case is reported, and stays out till the
papers report “no fresh cases since Thursday.”
Then he kisses the wife and kids, and ventures
back fearfully. In town, about every 25min.,
he draws up his pants as far as they will
draw, and hails the message-boy to spray his legs
with a strong solution of formalin, carbolic-acid,
perchloride of mercury, and other savoury germi-
cides. He has not had dry legs since the outbreak
commenced, and is rapidly developing some vile
form of rheumatism.
* * "* *
Another rag-seller struck an original idea.. He
soaks his legs three times daily in a strong solu-
tion of bluestone and water. The bluestone
hardens the skin, and now the hide of his ankles
and hind legs would turn the point of a needle.
He reckons that any flea tackling him would
simply qualify for dental treatment.
* * » »
Another pinned his faith to closely-woven silk
underpants well sprinkled with formalin. In order
to reassure his faith in underpants he used to call
at the Board of Health office to inquire if the
daily case was wearing underpants when dis-
covered, and if so, of what material and texture
were they composed ? N.S.W. Board of Health
never was great on matters of detail, and as often
as not could nob supply the information. Often
he would send round a clerk to ask at the patient’s
house—eager in pursuit of knowledge by which to
test his theory. The yarn goes that investigation
in this direction was suddenly stopped when the
clerk, unaware of the fact, called at a house where
the patient was a lady, and a male relation
vigorously resented his olothing inquiries.


FOR YOUR HOLIDAYS
-
260 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE
premo & poco Cameras.
LARGEST PHOTOGRAPHIC STORE
IN AUSTRALIA.
PHOT ) •APHIC, MAGIC LANTERN and EDISON’S TALKING
M ACHINE Catalogues mailed on application.
Baker & Rouse Proprietary
I ifIITED, *
375 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
90 and 92 Queen Street,
BRIS3AME.
65 Rundle Street,
ADELAIDE.
OAWiVIILL MACHINERY.
BAND or CIRCULAR MILLS, very heavy tor
hardwood timber. Complete Outfits of any capa-
city. BAND RESAWS. ENGINES. BOILERS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
PULP MACHINERY. GRIP PULLEYS.
FLOUR MILLING MACHINERY.
“ ALLIS ” ROLLER FLOUR MILLS on the
UNIVERSAL BOLTER SYSTEM.
WILLIAM FLEMING, 24 Clarence-street, SYDNEY.
FACILE PRINCEPS.
SEMPER IDEM.
BUCHANAN WHISKY
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Railway Station Fitzgeralds’ Circus.
Moore Park R.A.S. Show.
Lyceum “ Hearts are Trumps.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Empire Cosgrove Dramatic Co.
Palace World’s Entertainers.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ The Amazons.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Runaway Girl.”
Theatre Royal “ The Night Bi'rds of London.”
Bijou “ The Wrong Mr. Wright.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
4
The season of “ Ben Hur ” ended drama-
tically at Her Majesty’s (Sydney) last Sunday—
Palm Sunday, by the way, on which occurs one
of the big incidents of the play—when the theatre
was gutted by fire. The people could scarcely
have dispersed after the Saturday night’s per-
formance when the fire got its first start, for at
6.15 Sunday morning, when the brigades arrived,
it was practically all over, and a curtain of fire
and smoke had blotted out the handsome
theatre. The origin is the usual mystery:
all that seems certain is that it wasn’t the
fumigating apparatus ; and the habit that theatres
have of burning down is the only explanation
that can be hazarded. The flames, working
from the stage, licked up the scenery and rushed
unchecked across the auditorium. The building,
with its four square walls and its many doors on
the ground floor, acted admirably as a furnace, and
in a couple of hours there was nothing left of the
interior fittings ; ironwork crumbled away like
ant-eaten wood in the fierce heat, and the flooring
went in cinder-flakes to the sky. At 10 a.m. Sun-
day, passing up the uninjured staircase to the dress
circle, one suddenly came on a vast gap, smoking
and fuming, its contour broken by a few ragged
black strings of cinders hanging precariously to
the walls—whitened by the intense heat —just a big
holein abuilding, where there had been a brilliantly
decorated theatre. All the stage fittings, scenery
and properties were, of course, destroyed—a loss
of quite £14,000 to Mr. J. C. Williamson. Of this
six-sevenths was not covered by any insur-
ance. The theatre building belonged to Mrs.
M'Quade. It was, from everybody’s point of
view, a most unlucky burn, and from no one’s
more than from the theatre-employees’, some 500
in number. The fire closes their contracts and
throws them among the unemployed. The prin-
cipals—mostly imported from England—will suffer
severely, but the local supers., auditorium hands,
and so on, more severely still. To them, in many
cases, the fire probablyjspells beggary.
**” * •
Her Majesty’s was associated with some of
the most notable productions of the Australian
THE BIG SYDNEY FIRE: WRECK OF HER MAJESTYS THEATRE.
Photo, by the Exchange Studio, Sydney.
stage. There for many years Georgeßignold staged,
with splendid scenery, with armies of supers, and
with magnificent fidelity to the best traditions of
the craft, a series of Shakesperean plays, followed
by standard melodramas. There, too, the great
Sarah Bernhardt rehearsed, with much vigorous
use of the one little English swear-word she knew,
and played to the delight of a big audience, and
with special admiration from Mr. Dan. O’Connor
and other such local cognoscenti. The greatest
triumphs of that essentially Australian organisa-
tion, the Royal Comic Opera Co., were within the
walls of Her Majesty’s—-when Nellie Stewart, and
Violet Yarley, Flora Graupner and Florence
Young, Charles Ryley, Henry Bracy and
Wallace Brownlow played, and such pieces as
“La Cigale,” “Ma Mie Rosette,” “ The Rose of
Persia ” and “Florodora” were produced. The
theatre has also seen such notabilities as Mr.
Wilson Barrett, Miss Nance O’Neil and Mr.
John L. Sullivan. Just before the “ Ben
Hur ” production the house was for some
weeks occupied by the Williamson Grand
Opera co. It is almost certain that the theatre
will be rebuilt, and that in the rebuilding there
will be better provision for exit in case of fire. It
was not until the destruction of the place that the
Sydney public was informed by the Fire Brigade
of radical defects, from afire-suppression point of
view, in the building. It takes the Plague or a
big fire to secure publication of facts in Australia.
Sympathy with J. C. Williamson in this,
his latest misfortune, will be general. _ Mr.
Williamson has of late struck a streak of bad
luck. Woes have tumbled on him in quick suc-
cession as on the house of (Edipus. The outbreak
of plague at Her Majesty’s, the non-success of the
last season of the World’s Entertainers, this fire
winch, in addition to causing a very big cash loss,
will disorganise his whole arrangements for the
year—all occurring within three months, represent
almost a record accumulation of calamity. He
should be due now for many years of steady
prosperity on the law of averages.
** * *
“ Sapho,” as produced at the Empire by
the Cosgrove co., proved to be an amusing farce,
more especially at the points where it was billed
to teach a “ strong moral lesson.” The production
on Saturday night was further enlivened by one
or two persons in the audience who arose and re-
buked the drama and told it not to go too strong.
Harry Beaumont, as the good young hero, is first
seen in his simple, suburban home. Jack is going
to Paris, and his French Ma, in the outspoken
manner of her country, warns her son to beware
of strange ladies. Jack then sports with his
sisters to the neglect of his fiancee, Irene,
and as the first young man who preferred
his sisters to another girl, he deserves to
be recorded. In Act 11. Jack is at a very
meagre masked ball, where he is seen resisting
various strange ladies, clad mostly in harlequinade
costumes. Jack’s method of repudiating the ad-
vances of these ladies proves clearly that, though
a woman resisting temptation may look sublime,
a man under the same circumstances merely
appears ridiculous. Then Sapho appears in Greek
draperies and red flowerets. The act ends with
Jack succumbing to Sapho, mainly because a large
man has rushed into the building and laid a claim
for the lady on the plea that he taught her the
piano. In Act 111. the famous staircase scene is
merely a rush up some steps that are mostly
turned away from the audience, so that Sapho, who
is a large lady, can do the top ones herself.
* * * *
Harry Beaumont as Jack Gaussin is rather
an infliction, but both he and Miss Rose Phillips
as Sapho rose rather above mediocrity in the
quarrel scene, after Jack had been annoyed by
what other gentlemen had said as to his lady-
love. There are probably only one or two women
in Australia who could play Sapho even decently,
but if Miss Phillips didn’t “ fall ” on the floor, by
just sitting down on it and then spreading herself
out, one would think her better. In other
respects her failure was not a marked one ; it was
indeed fairly respectable, and this is saying more
than it looks, as 99 actresses out of 100 who
attempted the part would fail in it. Mr. Tom
Cosgrove caused considerable amusement as the
vegetarian Uncle who loses his clothes while
bathing. Some of the masked-ball ladies are
entertaining.
** * *
Bland Holt’s “ Hearts are Trumps ” will
this week give place to the “Span of Life,” a
drama which deals with a lighthouse and three
gentlemen making a bridge of themselves over a
chasm. The poverty-stricken ladies who wail
over their coinless condition in Parisian frocking
will wail only for a few nights longer; and the
nice girl (with a bad habit of poking her chin out,
by the way) who is horrified at seeing a drawing
of her supposed anatomy on the walls of the Art
Academy will soon be horrified no more.
** * *
Fitzgerald’s Circus raised its magnificent
tents near Sydney Railway Station on Saturday.
There are some good new items in the show and
some good old ones, and the menagerie includes
the lion that lately distinguished itself by running
away at Broken Hill, thinking it recognised its
native desert. The performing ponies, Barbelle
and Barbette, do some clever feats, while the well-
known Commodore, Oscar, who plays up to
Lizzie the Elephant, and some martial-looking,
gaily festooned Hungarian animals further show
the high intellect of the Horse. Drilling and waltz-
ing aresomeof their accomplishments; a few mokes
of a religious turn of mind walk about backward
as if they belonged to the Salvation Army. The
performing dogs 1 with their nice neck-ribbons and
dainty ways are highly amusing; one of them
indulges in a skirt-dance, being attired for the
performance before the audience. There are
many other clever performing animals. Among
the humans the Moultons and Master Bertie
return temporarily to the status of their monkey
ancestry, and sport among the trapezes as did
our long-armed forefathers among the cocoa-
nut palms of a bygone age. Master Bertie is
a gymnast to whom any intelligent ourang-
outang would feel proud to be related.
One of the prettiest items in the show is con-
tributed by La Belle Rose. Miss Katie Mont-
gomery, as an equestrienne, Master Curdello and
Master Shand in their Double Jockey act, and
the Beautiful White Lady of Dusseldorf form
some of the other attractions, while the show con-
cludes as before with a High Jumping contest and
a Performing Lion taking a ride on an Elephant
and looking absurd and rather ashamed of him-
self.
** * *
There will be an almost entire change of
programme at Sydney Tivoli this Saturday, and
of some of the new “ turns ” report speaks very
highly. Miss Lydia Yeamans Turner, an Aus-
tralian who has risen to a star position in American
vaudeville, the Jackson family of musicians, Rig-
ley, a celebrated flautist, and Dan Conroy, come-
dian, are to be the principal new performers.
The last nights of Lotty, Peggy Pryde, the Lund-
greens, and Nellie Randall are announced.
* * * *
Mr. Rickards opens his new variety theatre
(the Royal) in Brisbane on Saturday night with a
company including Peggy Pryde, Nadine, Colby
and Way, Fanny Powers, and the Rianos. This
will be the fourth house in Australia to be perma-
nently occupied by Mr. Rickards.
** * *
Sydney Palace reopens this Saturday,
March 25th, with a new company of World’s
Entertainers including Salerno, the only rival of
Cinquevalli as a juggler, the Ferraris, Professor
Powell, Platt and Sutherland and many other star
performers. There will be in all 15 turns —each a
strong one—and in view of the very limited
number of theatres now open in Sydney there
should be a prosperous season ahead of the co.
** * *
Easter attractions in Sydney, in addition
to the Agricultural Society’s show, include two
concerts in the Town Hall—sacred music on Good
Friday night and Marie Narelle’s farewell on
Easter Monday night.
William Anderson’s Dramatic Organisa-
tion, assisted by 30 ballerinas, a carriage and pair,
and a fire-brigade, will repeat the strange story of
the Night Birds until further notice at Mel-
bourne Royal. All things considered, the co.
deserve credit for taking their parts seriously.
Also, the stage-manager will be worthy of great
praise when he has taught the lady denizens of
the Night Birds’ Club to shriek on a feminine go-
as-you-please system instead of firing off their
fictitious alarfn in volleys. It should be easy for
those young women to shriek naturally at any
point of Anderson’s festive four-act drama. Pre-
sent scribe speaks from personal experience. This
is not the most shrieksome drama he ever saw, but
as a source of innocent merriment it ranks very
high.
* * * at
The Princess’s is closed this holy Easter
Thursday. “ Sweet Nell of Old Drury ” sailed on
Tuesday for Tasmania, where the co. are to pro-
duce three or four other plays, in which Miss
Lucy Wilson will make her first Australian
appearances, and Nellie Stewart will not appear
at all. On Saturday the Broughs start their final
farewell season at the Princess’s. The season can-
not last longer than five weeks, and if Melbourne
intends to rise to the occasion, the managerial
Brough must be prepared to .make special matinee
arrangements. In the revival of “The Amazons,”
which is announced for the first of the five weeks,
Miss Brenda Gibson will appear again, after a
long absence. Eight weary years nave elapsed
since Miss G. wore the brown knickerbockers of
a blameless life in Pinero’s pretty comedy.
#* * *
The Bijou also will be closed for two
nights after the issue of this week’s Bulletin, the
World’s Entertainers (whose large assortment of
dumb “turns” is considerably brightened by the
recent engagement of C. M. Rodney) having
passed on to another State.- On Saturday happens
the first Australian production of “The Wrong
Mr. Wright ” with which farcical comedy Edwin
Geach inaugurates his managerial career. Many
of the people who took parts in the “Jones ” and
“ Smith ” successes are now listed in the legion of
“Wright,” and the new members of the old
Arnold Co., include Tom Cannam, Miss Roxy
Barton and Mias Watts Phillips. A good per-
formance of “ Wrong Mr. Wright,” is assured, so
it only remains for the 3-act joke to prove half as
funny as it is said to be.
** * #
“ A Runaway Girl ” at Her Majesty’s will
continue through Easter week and until further
notice. Melbourne generally admits that the
present musical comedy is a more substantial
entertainment than any previous thing of the
kind except, pe.’haps, “Florodora.” It has a
little bit of backbone to its narrative, and several
catchy songs, and none of the principals, bar
Bantock, are very unsuited to their parts. True,
Florence Young doesn’t look like a damsel whose
style was formed in a convent, but she is a fine
healthy soprano for wandermg-minstrel purposes,
and her genial dimple and infallible top-note com-
mend her to approval all the time.
*# w *
At Rickards’ Opera House an extensive
alteration in the bill is promised. Callahan and
Mack, Winton, Zobedie, Mdlle. Nadine, and one
of two other people will pass out after Thursday
night, and some more others will make their first
appearance at the Saturday matinee. The Per-
mans, late of Musgrove’s panto., have contracted
to cake-walk and otherwise gambol under Rick-
ards’ management; also Mdlle. Lotty, the silken-
tighted Venus, will bring her rounded outlines to
Melbourne notice, and evoke beads of admiration
from the glittering scalp of respectable old age.
** * *
The Good Friday fixtures for Melbourne
are rather more numerous and inviting than usual.
At the Exhibition Building, where the Ancient
Druids gather at this period, Miss Grace Palotta
will discuss the subject of a Faithful Soul,
and a musical festival will be provided,
with Kenningham, Miss Olive Kingston, Miss
Vollugi, the gentle Walter Kirby, Miss
Grace Ward, and many artists on the programme.
At the Town Hall the Philharmonic Society gives
its 23rd performance of “Elijah” ; and at the
Athenseum Hall a new violinist—Bernhard
Walther—is to make his first Australian appear-
ance. M. Walther, a compatriot of Musin, has
lately toured America, and he comes from that
country with the reputation of being one of the
best.
Marie Lloyd and Lottie Collins don’t appear to have
improved their health by trips to Australia, so, con-
sidering that Rickards gained nothing by paying them
£l2O and £lOO a week respectively, it seems a pity that
they ever left ’Ome. Marie and Lottie were both of them
too ill to appear at the Tivoli (Lon.) one night last month.
One of the substituted “turns” was Hamilton Hill, the
Australian baritone, who went from Rickards’to America,
and is now making big money in London on the merits of
his voice and his ’Murikan reputation.
Mrs. Brown-Potter threw up her part in the new
poetical play, “ Ulysses,” owing to the persistent protests
of the author against her elocuting her rhymed lines, or
“reading his meaning,” or something. Said author,
Stephen Phillips, appears to be a masterful young man,
as well as a poet, so it isn’t strange that he came to log-
gerheads with Cora B. Potter,, whose “ golden drone ”
d la Bernhardt is an acquired taste even where prose is
concerned. “ Ulysses ” promises to prosper, despite Mrs.
Potter’s eleventh-hour retirement from the co. She was
cast for the character of Calypse. A Miss Nancy Price
stepped into the vacancy, with results that “ fully justi-
fied her selection,” consequently Mrs. P. is now kicking
herself to think that she provided another girl with a
foremost place in what is said to be “ the finest produc-
tion the English stage has known in recent years.”
A Maoriland pressman writes: “Wilson Barrett was
splendidly advertised in M.L., mainly through the fore-
sight of his insinuating advance rep., who, with a keen
eye to dollars, bit the ear of various mayors for nicely-
arranged public receptions in their town-halls. After
their washups had extended their flabby paws in welcome
the great tragedian usually got off * some high-flown
observations about the beauty and intellectuality of his
noble art, and these were scattered broadcast. This
manoeuvre either struck Percy Dix, the variety show-man,
as good business, or else Dix has a large sense of humor,
and when the Great Mummer was billed for a reception
in gusty Wellington, Dix approached the portly mayor
and suggested that a similar honor be accorded his Oragg
family of acrobats. His Washup, however, glared like an
angry flame against a window-pane, and scouted the
suggestion with contumely. Whereupon a press corres-
pondent slated the chief citizen in vitriolic terms for his
one-sidedness, and pointed out that it was no part of his
duty to bolster up one business enterprise against
another. His Washup lav low and said nuftin.”
Prank Thornton and Co. will be around again shortly.
Nellie Stewart tells her friends that her success as
Sweet Nell of Old Drury gives her little pleasure, because
the atmosphere of the play and the surroundings are so
different to what she had been used to in comic opera and
extravaganza. But Nellie’s complaint that the new
atmosphere doesn’t suit her may be taken with several
grains of salt. All actors, male or female, affect to hold
themselves cheap in their dearest characters.
There is one glaring error in the plot of “ Hearts are
Trumps. ” The Earl of Burford —the owner of the painting
of the picture in the nude of Dora—sent it to the Royal
Academy. Only artists can send pictures to th^Academy.
It is now cabled that Methuen wasn’t
surprised by De la Rey—that the attack was
made on an open plain by daylight, that the
Boers were four miles off when first sighted, and
that without any artillery they charged in the
teeth of the British guns and the heavy British
rifle fire, and finally settled the matter by turning
some of Methuen’s captured guns on the remainder
of his forces. The original tale about the sudden
springing of the Boers out of the ground, and about
their success arising from the fact that they were
disguised in British uniforms, has apparently
evaporated. It is now stated that the British
opened a heavy fire on them when they were still
three-quarters of a mile off, so evidently the
clothes their nakedness was covered with had no
bearing on the result.
From the Federal Parliament lobby, a cor-
respondent :
Regarding the Lyne-Wise feud, about which a Bulletin
paragraph last week, it is said that Bill Lyne has made a
mighty resolve that B. R. Wise shall have no Federal
billet if he can prevent it: there is an active campaign
between the two factions—the Lyne and the Wise. Bill
Lyne’s best friends will hope, for his sake, that he doesn’t
succeed in keeping Wise, with a grudge to work off, in
Australia, for Wise’s memory is long, and the tenacious
animosity with which he followed Reid, and finally dished
that gentleman’s chances of the Federal Premiership, was
a masterpiece of enmity in politics. Lyne has lots of
sense—more sense than most people credit him with—but
he is too lumbering to fight successfully with the limber
Wise.
There’s a Night Bird of London, his front name
is Eric,
Whose dear little spouse seems a trifle hysteric;
For ere she first met him she’d married a thief
In order to load up her future with grief.
The robber she wedded ne’er took her to wife,
But passed from the church into criminal life,
And was said to be killed in a railway train,
Which tempted his widow to marry again.
When she’d duly presented a plump little son
To Number 2 hubby, her lost Number 1
Turns up from the grave like a penny that’s bad.
But a woman in pink, who is awfully mad,
Appears on the scence with a countenance placid
And burns out bis eyeballs with sulphuric acid.
Meantime Eric’s cousin, to make things absurder,
Is mostly engaged in committing a murder,
Or stealing the kiddy and turning the light down,
Whilst poor Mrs. Eric, arrayed in a night-gown,
Lies drugged on the bed whither Number 1 hubby
(Not the wandering Pa of young Rupert so chubby,
But the man-from-the-grave, whom she “chuck’t ”
ere he kissed her)
Has lured her by means of his dissolute sister.
Now, the frilly-robed wife who partook of the
claret,
And the lunatic-wife with the rats in her garret,
They wrestle and fight, never heading theories
Of him who’s lamenting the loss of his eyes.
But somehow this crisis is brought to a close,
And the virtuous people continue their woes
Till Robert, the cousin, gets taken to “quod ”
Because he is guilty “ in sight of his God,”
Although the police have no tittle of proof,
Save the word of a corpse who was blown through
the roof.
Then Eric the roamer and Bertie, his friend,
Remark that the Truth always scores at the end ;
And the flames of affliction are finally laid
By the steam-squirting hose of a Fire Brigade.


stocks Kept of
RAND ROCK DRILLS & AIR COMPRESSORS
BY THE SOLE AGENTS—
N. GrUTHRIDGrE, LTD., 71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
And at 486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE ; WELLINGTON, N.Z.;
214 HIGH STREET, FREMANTLE; KALCOORLIE.
gds
TRAMWAYS. TRAMWAYS.
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Prop. Ltd.
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
representing ORENSTEIN & KOPPEL LTD., of LONDON and BERLIN,
Equip Complete TRAMWAYS and supply Every Description of Tramway Material 1 .
Locomotives from 10 to 250 h.p.
STOCKS IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE include Rails and Accessories, Steel Sleepers
Turntables, Switches, Side Tipping Trucks, Steel Wheels, &c. Technical advice gratuitously
rendered. Flying and Permanent Surveys arranged. Illustrated Catalogues and Photo-
graphic Albums showing Tramways constructed m different parts of the World upon
application. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager.
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties olTered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “Option,”
Melbourne. *
* » » »
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
» * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footsoray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts,nuts,forgings, andallsortsof iron-work/*
* * * *
The Commercial World, August, 1901, writes
re the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society, Limited :
“It is primarily a progressive institution, its contracts
are liberal, and, moreover, its financial position is every-
thing that could be desired.”*
■*• * *
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buchu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
» * • *
Mr. A. Gilfillan, B.Sc., C.E. (Edin.), Mining
and Metallurgical Engineer, Stock Exchange Buildings,
Melbourne, is leaving for London about April next, for
the purpose of establishing a London office, and attending
to the flotation of approved mining and other proposi-
tions. Before leaving Mr. Gilfillan will visit the various
colonies for the purpose of inspecting any options which
may be offered. Correspondence invited from mine-
owners who have properties worth handling.*
• * * •
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * «
See for yourself. The Australian Medical
Gazette of January, 1891, compares Zetz Spa to the cele-
brated Vichy waters of France, and states that it is
valuable for gout, rheumatism, gravel, catarrh of the
bladder, diabetes, dyspepsia, splenic and hepatic dis-
orders:
* * * *
Vanning Tables.— The very newest and what
gives exceedingly fair promise of superseding all other
tables is the machine known as the Wesley-Baird Vanning
Table. The table is of South Australian invention, and
has given excellent results on Broken Hill ores and ores
containing pyrites, carbonate of copper and tin. Like all
tables, the best work is done on “ fines,” and more espe-
cially when the product is properly classified. The
Central Mining and Tramway Co., of 424 Little Oollins-
street, Melbourne, and 40 Hunter-street, Sydney, are the
sole agents in the Eastern States. The table has a capa-
city up to 30 tons per day.*
* * * *
The Austral Otis Engineering Oo.’s tender for
the supply of nearly a million arc lamps of Conradty’a
manufacture has been accepted by the City Council of
Melbourne. The same co. has also been entrusted with
the supply of the Launceston City Council’s requirements
of arc lamp carbons.*
* * * *
Waihi (M.L.) produced £454,386 worth of gold
last year, making the total production a trifle short of
£2,000,000. Rumored that the bottom of the mine does
not show too satisfactorily.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles. Caustic Soda,
Borax, Arsenic, Carbonate of Soda, etc. '
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Naptha, Benzine and Blasting Charges,
Hy. tyarkwald,
178 William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st.,Sydney; 68 Currie-st., Adel.; 27 Eagle-street,
Brisb. ; and at Chrittchureh, Dunedin, Welli'ngton, and
Auckland, NZ.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Victoria last week offered locally a little 3 per
cent, loan of £250,000 at £94. It got only £76,000 from
the public and £lOO,OOO from the Savings Bank, but
presumably the rest of the money will come. That
is to say, the State will pay about £3 4s. per cent,
on the money actually received, and during the 30
years’ currency of the loan the interest will amount
to £225,000. Also, £15,000 of interest will be added
to the permanent debt and called discount. If the
State offered 3J per cent., then it could probably sell
the loan at par, and avoid adding any of the interest
to the permanent debt ; a mean swindle upon pos-
terity is done to save one shilling per cent, per annum, or
thereabouts, in interest. The whole loan business is a
good deal of a swindle, but when a State, whose credit is
only good enough for a 3J per cent, loan, borrows nomin-
ally at 3 per cent., and adds the difference to the
permanent debt under the name of discount, the
swindle is a shade worse than usual. And when
it is considered that Victoria will pay, during
the lifetime of most of its present population, about
£240,000 for the use of that £250,000, and will still
owe the 6250,000, the garish foolishness of the whole
loan business stands out conspicuously. It would be
£250,000 cheaper to pay £BOOO a year into a public works
fund out of taxation. The public works might arrive a
little more slowly at first, but they would arrive sure
enough, and the annual payment during the first 30
years would be no more, and there would be no £250,000
debt at the end of the 30 years.
* » * •
Victoria has already struck one awful streak of
bad luck over the war ; a £3,000,000 loan fell due just
when the London money-market was almost at its worst,
and the Cabbage Garden State lost about £300,000 in dis-
count on the deal—tthat is to say, it added that amount
to its debt. It has £5,500,000 falling due in 1904, and if
by any possibility the war drags on till then, or the
London market continues sick from other causes, it will
probably lose £550,000 over that. That is where the joy
and gladness of having loans falling due at fixed
dates, instead of redeemable at the option of the
State, as in England, comes in. In England the
public creditor can never demand repayment; there-
fore, when there is a glut of cheap money, England
does a little conversion operation, and gains by
it, and, when money is scarce, it leaves things
alone. Here, almost every loan must be repaid on a
certain day, and the State has to borrow the money
however bad things are, and at whatever expense. New
South Wales has £50,000,000 of debt falling due in five
separate years—an average of £10,000,000 in each year.
If those happen to be bad years it may drop £5,000,000 in
discount, commission, expenses, and sundries over these
simple operations. There is one year when the Common-
wealth, unless it has established a big sinking fund by
then, Will have to borrow £31,000,000 in one stupendous
heap to renew loans. If that happens to be a war .year, and
a time of trouble, it will be a great episode.
Treasurer Turner was supposed, some time ago,
to be inquiring into the Canadian banking system, the
adoption of which has been so often recommended by
The Bulletin. Have his inquiries led to anything yet?
The Canadian system requires the banks to hold 40 per
cent, of their cash reserves in State notes, but the pro-
portion might as well be 50 per cent., for they hold over
50 per cent. The gold reserves in the banks of the Com-
monwealth—that is to say the amount of gold lying
permanently idle, bringing in no interest, and doing no
active service whatever —is never more than a fraction
below £20,000,000, and is usually over £20,000,000.
It all represents borrowed money and it costs Aus-
tralia over £700,000 a year in interest, which is a
dreadful drain when there is no return to show for it.
Ten millions in gold and ten millions in Federal Govern-
ment notes would moulder in the banks’ cellars quite as
successfully as the present £20,000,000 of gold. And with
the £10,000,000 thus obtained the Federal Government
could take up all the State loans falling due for renewal
in the next three years, and save the disastrously expen-
sive process of renewing them in London. It would then
hold £10,000,000 of State securities; it would have an
annual income of at least £300,000 in the shape of interest
—which now goes to the British money-lender ; and it
could use this for the further repurchase of State securities
so as to further reduce this country’s foreign debt. There
would be £300,000 a year less going out of the country
which would be so much absolutely saved ; and the
States would probably save somewhere between £500,000
and £1,000,000 in discounts and renewal expenses. It is
a good many months since Treasurer Turner said that he
had written to Canada for information about the Cana-
dian banking system, and it is time someone asked him if
the reply hasn’t come to hand ?
« * » •
No special prosperity has come in the way of
the Emu Bay (Tasmania) Railway Co. during 1901. When
all the paper or goodwill items, such as “ Rights acquired
under V.D.L. Co.’s Waratah-Zeehan Railway Act and
other concessions in terms of prospectus, £lOO,OOO ”;
“ Preliminary Expenses, etc., £41,125” ; and so on, are
eliminated the situation is about as follows :
Losses on Pr ffi??£U ,d Total
Business. Ex D pense s, &c. Deflcit
1898 .. £1395 .. .. £104,404
1899 .. 5078 .. £39,055 .. 348,537
1900 .. 9181 .. 61 .. 157,779
1901 .. 8078 .. .. 165,857
The situation hasn’t improved to any material extent.
Earnings are a little over £39,000, and expenses, rent,
and interest a little over £47,000, which represents a
lamentable and almost impossible-looking gap. Of the
paid-up capital of £360,000 only a little over £194,000 is
now represented by tangible assets. In fact, a very large
portion of the capital was apparently never represented
by tangible assets.
The Emu Bay Railway Co. is a dreadful
example of the ways of Private Enterprise when it de-
votes itself to railway construction in this country. The
principal part of the system—the Emu Bay-Mount
Bischoff section—was constructed by the Van Diemen’s
Land Co. —an English land-grabbing concern which owns
an immense area of Western Tasmania. Over the greatest
part of its principality the V.D.L. Co. refuses to make
roads, refuses to sell or lease, refuses to do anything. It
just moulders. Even the town of Burnie (Emu Bay),
which is on its grant, makes little progress because the
co. will only condescend to sell a little ground now and
then for building purposes. The Tasmanian Government
hasn’t the courage or honesty to break up this ghastly
incubus with a heavy graduated land-tax and absentee-
tax, though it is to be hoped the Federal Parliament will
do it, and soon. The utter stagnation of the V.D.L. 00.
may be gathered from the fact that there is no road from
the prosperous seaport of Emu Bay to the large mining
town of Zeehan (population about 10,000) —in fact, there
is no road from anywhere to Zeehan. The stagnant
V.D.L. 00. sold its railway to the Emu Bay and Mount
Bischoff Railway 00. (which raised the money to buy it
mostly by borrowing at 4£ per cent.), and this latter
leased it to the Emu Bay Railway Co. for £lO,OOO a year,
with right of purchase for £198,000. <
The Emu Bay Railway Co., like most private
railway companies in Australasia, refused flatly to put
up anything like sufficient capital. Therefore, instead
of purchasing its railway for £198,000, it pays £lO,OOO a
year rent —which is equal to borrowing money at £5 Is.
per cent, per annum. Then (because it wouldn’t put up
enough capital of its own) it raised money for the con-
struction of additional lines by borrowing £200,000 on 5
per cent, debentures, hut as it only received about
£160,000 cash (the rest went in “ expenses of flotation,
&c.,”) this money costs it £6 ss. per cent., or, including
the loss on redemption of debentures, about 7 per cent.
Then the co. raised more money by issuing £lOO,OOO
worth of preference shares on which 4 per cent, must be
paid whether it is earned or not, and which must receive
8 per cent, dividends before the ordinary shareholders
get anything. Of course such an insanely-financed line
doesn’t pay—there is hardly a line on earth that would
pay with these burdens on top of it.
In 1901 this disastrous railway earned .£12,122
over and above working expenses. If the ordinary
shareholders who started the business had put up enough
money of their own to buy the original line for £198,000,
and to build or buy the additions thereto, without any
of this insane financing, borrowing, selling of absurdly-
costly debentures at a huge discount, and issuing of 8
per cent, preference shares, about £480,000 would have
covered everything. Even in the howling wilderness of
Western Tasmania their spec, would then be at least pay-
ing them 2£ per cent, with great possibilities of improve-
ment. As it is, this little 100 miles or so of line has as
many hangers-on and useless dead-weights to support as
many a 2000-mile system, and it can’t stand the strain.
* • • *
Lead producers and the people who would like
to be, hoped that the low prices would soon knock out the
supply; and they expected that, as there is not a big
accumulated stock of the metal, the market would soon
pull itself together again after its recent drunk and the
bad time that followed in the morning. But instead of
the supply being starved by low prices, it grows fatter
and fatter, so that combined Jan. and Feb. imports to the
U.K. for the last three years are this size :—l9OO, 30,758
tons ; 1901, 35,2G7 tons 1902, 40,372 tons. Consumption
certainly is not increasing at this rate ; it is doubtful
whether it is increasing at any rate at all. And if, as this
seems to show, people can get all the lead they want for
£l2 10s., it doesn’t seem highly probable that they will
pay over that figure. How long producers and exporters
can fill them up at that price is, of course, the * in the
case ; it depends a good deal on the metallurgical de-
velopments of the near future. And as some sort of a
guide to the length of time taken to make a complete
recovery, it is recalled that, after the lead market had got
down to £9 10s. in ’94 (this was the bottom of the slump
which followed the collapse of the American silver-legis-
lation and the Indian currency changes), it was April,
1898, before the price passed £l3 and stayed above it.
* * * *
The co. owning the Illawarra (N.S.W.) ore-
reducing works has lately suffered another change—it
is the Smelting and Refining Co. of Australia now. The
London directors are moving round ; big contracts have
been made, and two ’Murkan smelting people have been
sent out to do the hustling this end. The co. is reaching
out for a considerable New Caledonian trade.
• * *
The New York Life Insurance Co. completed
its 57th year on 31st December, 1901:
Total Exnenses Claims Total Added to
Income. x P enses - Claims. outgoings Fundg .
£ £ £ £ £
1895 .. 7,796,763 1,619,244 3,455,459 5,074,703 2,722,060
1896 .. 8,053,407 1,628,670 3,803,214 5,431,884 2,621,523
1897 .. 8,599,400 1,728,702 3,993,715 5,722,417 2,876,983
1898 .. 9.348,131 1,847,549 4,427,956 6,275,505 3,072,626
1899 .. 10,775,980 2,168,393 4,569,337 6,737,730 4,038,250
1900.. 12,122,329 2,421,921 4,805,725 7,227,646 4,894,683
1901 .. 14,568,426 2,751,748 5,680,944 8,432,692 6,135,734
The figures grow larger and more imposing every year.
At the end of 1901 the total funds of the New York Life
Insurance 00. were £59,823,742, of which £26,361,859 was
the accumulation of the past seven years. If the expan-
sion continues at anything like the present rate the New
York Life’s accumulation will pass the £100,000,000 mark
in 1906.
During the past seven years the expense-rate-
has been about as follows:
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1895 .. £2O 15 4 per cent. 1899 .. £2O 2 5 per cent.
1896 .. 20 4 6 „ 1900 .. 19 19 7 „
1897 .. 20 2 1 „ 1901 .. 18 17 10
1898 .. 19 15 3 „
The expense-rate is still tolerably high, but it tends
steadily downwards.
* » * •
The New York Life has a surplus, over and
above the face-value of its policy contracts and the sums-
set aside for payment of bonuses, of £3,216,759. In making
this calculation, future interest-earnings are reckoned as
regards all policies issued last year at 3 per cent, (which
will be the basis for all future business) and as regards
some of the old policies at the same rate ; on the rest of
the old policies the basis is 4 per cent. The interest
actually earned during 1901 represented £4 os. Bd. per
cent, on the average funds, or, if the large sum realised as
profit on securities sold during the year (£632,793) is in-
cluded (which cannot safely be done, as this is not a regular
or reliable item of revenue), the interest-receipts were
about £5 2s. lid. per cent. The surplus is sufficient to re-
duce the assumed interest to an eminently safe 3 per cent,
basis. The New York Life is one of the very few offices-
which publishes a list in which every individual property,
and its value, is set forth, and thus subjects its assets to
the most searching criticism. This is a system that can-
not be too highly commended in the policy-holders’ inte-
rests, for no inflated asset can avoid being noticed by
somebody, and it furnishes about the best guarantee that
the policy-holders could possibly have. And, in addition,
there is an independent Government audit in the U.S.
which is an additional assurance that the funds are all
they profess to be.
» • * *
The Sydney and Suburban Mutual Permanent;
Building and Land Investment Association (Sydney)i
shows no break in its career of misfortune :
Deprecia-
Loss on tion and Deficit, Capital
Busi- Loss on less nominally
ness. Property Reserves. intact. ‘
Sales.
Jan., 1896.. £llB9 £2206 £44,167 £54.314
Profit.
„ 1897.. 141 2681 46,707 51,836
Loss.
„ 1898.. 1494 5560 53,761 44,787
„ 1899.. 1611 6383 61,755 36,825
„ 1900.. 1282 6544 69,581 29,022:
„ 1901.. 1340 2970 73,891 24,712:
„ 1902.. 1477 1400 76,768 21,835
The Sydney and Suburban Mutual Permanent B. and!
L.I.A. only pays 3 per cent, interest on its reconstructed
deposits, and has done so since 1895, but it only earns 1}
per cent, or, if the loss on realisation of properties is
taken into account, it earns less than nothing. The
liabilities to creditors other than shareholders are being
reduced very slowly. The process is as follows :
Owing to Amount paid off
Depositors, &c. during year.
January, 1896 .. £109,593
„ 1897 ... 107,382 .. £2211
„ 1898 .. 105,882 .. 1500
„ 1899 .. 104,931 .. 951
„ 1900 .. 98,468 .. 6463
„ 1901 .. 98,094 .. 374
„ 1902 .. 96,929 .. 1165
A reduction of £12,664 in six years is not very promising,
especially considering that the losses during the same
period have been some £32,000. At this rate of progress
there bids fair to be a very large deficit when the
realisation is completed. The concern is very cheaply
managed, but its investments appear to be a lamentable
collection. It has paid no dividend since 1891, and the
whole dividends paid in the 10 years of its comparative
prosperity were only £44,644, so the shareholders have
already lost nearly twice as much as they ever got out
of it.
• * * •
Sandhurst and Northern Districts Trustees,
Executors and Agency 00. (Bendigo, Victoria)
Net Profit. Dividends. Reserves.
1895 .. £950 6 per cent. = £l2OO £2414
1896 .. 1112 6 „ „ 1200 2326
1897 .. 1110 6 „ „ 1000 2436
1898 .. 624 5 „ „ 1000 2060
1899 .. 1174 5 „ „ 1000 2234
1900 .. 1273 6 „ ~ 1000 2507
1901 .. 2365 5J „ „ 1100 3772
This rather slow institution begins to look up a little, and
it might be a wise proceeding if it devoted a part of its
surplus to a rigorous writing-down of assets. A tendency
to put in assets at “ face value,” when it is by no means
certain that they would realise face value if sold under
present market conditions, crops up at times rather con-
spicuously in its balance-sheet.
* » * *
The Civil Service Co-operative Society of
N.S.W. (Sydney)
„ . 6 p.c. Dividends
_ "IP and 10 p.c. Bonus Reserves.
Profits. on Pur( . hases .
Jan., 1899.. £4681 .. £4374 .. £11,835
July, 1899 .. 4501 .. 4463 .. 11,873
Jan., 1900 .. 5024 .. 4583 .. 12,314
July, 1900 .. 4720 .. 4834 .. 12,200
Jan., 1901.. 6206 .. 5237 .. 13,169
July, 1901.. 5371 .. 4953 .. 13,587
Jari., 1902 . .about 6400 about 5831 about 14,156
The Civil Service Co-Operative Society is so peculiarly
constituted in its accounts that it is impossible to say
exactly what the net profit or the dividend or the re-
serves amount to until about nine months after date :
that is to say when the .balance-sheet for July, 1902,
comes out (about the end of September) it will be possible
to give the January figures Still it is certain
that the general position is one of steady prosperity, and
1901 has been a year of far more than the average
prosperity.
m * * *
From Westralia: Thirty 15001 b. stamps are
coming out for the Westralia Mt. Morgans—the heaviest
in this State, and, as far as the writer knows, in Australia.
The Mt. Morgans (last month’s return, £14,400) is going
to make a struggle to line up with the biggest of the
Boulder mines. It is adding to its cyanide plant as well
as to its battery. Great Fingall (last year’s profit was
£89,372 on a capital of £125,000) makes so good a show
because it pays for much of its equipment and develop-
ment by letting go parcels of Sons of Gwalia and other
stocks which it holds. Great Boulder is now carving
its way down to 1600 ft. The 1400 ft. stone averages 26dwt.
Beginning of March prices compared with the lowest
achieved in 1900 and 1901: —
Lowest, ’OO. Lowest, ’Ol. March, ’O2.
Associated £2 13 9 £1 17 6 £lB 0
Ass. Northern .. 150 1 17 6 2 12 0
G. Boulder .. 1 3 6 17 0 19 0
Perseverance .. 717 6 526 11 76
Main Reef .. 1 1 3 10 0 15 7£
Horseshoe .. 9 10 0 8 7 6 10 12 6
Ivanhoe .. .. 876 600 7 13 3
L. V. Consols .. 800 500 489
Gt. Fingall .. 100 526 8 15 0
Brown Hill .. 400 2 15 0 2 12 6
On the basis of market prices at the close of each year,
Brown Hill and Boulders were the only two of the big
co’s which paid more than 5 per cent, in ’OO and ’Ol. One
after the other the Westralian mines are dropping the
odious deduction from wages for a “ medical fund.” The
L.V. Consols has just given it up, leaving the Golden
Horseshoe the only mine still pursuing the stand-and-
deliver policy.
» * * *
The recent jump of Brown Hill Extended shares
from 15s. to 325. was the result of cutting a new lode at
the 600 ft. level in a crosscut to the East. Up to the
present no lode so far East has shown any permanency,
and it seems unlit (v that the new find will lead to much.
• a • a
How these 1-""listers and boodlers love one
another I Whitalu.l Wright in his examination said that
Kaufman was appointed consulting engineer to the
London and Globe on condition that he should not take
secret commission. Kaufman, he said, cabled advice to
sell the Horseshoe shares which the company held, on the
ground that the mine was no good, and at the same time
advised other people to buy, which they did, and became
the possessors of the most productive mine on the field.
Now that the self-confessed manipulator is bottom dog
Kaufman can afford to “ vink ”at the charge. He is now
in London, and will doubtless volunteer to go before the
liquidator and give his version of the transaction.
♦ * * *
The Associated is producing about £15,000
worth of gold monthly for the benefit of the directors and
miners. The patched-up plant which has cost about
£500,000 saves the gold, but at a prohibitive cost. As the
average value of the bulk of the ore in the fields is about
15 to 20 dwts., it, cannot return the cost of mining,
roasting, milling, grinding, cyaniding, filter pressing,
etc., and Associated people cannot realise this too soon.
* « * «
Great Fingall running 40 of its 60 heads of
stamps during February treated 4704 tons for 8002 oz.
This is at the rate of 4f tons per stamp daily, which will
open the eyes of the Victorian and N.S.W. millmen. The
new Day Dawn shaft will soon be ready for hauling, when
the remaining 20 heads will start and bring up the mine’s
output to about ll,ooooz. monthly. Company ought to
pay at least £1 div. this year on its 10s. shares. Bewick
Moreing’s engineer reports that the value of the ore in
sight is £1,180,000, and that the average of the lode in
No. 8 level is 2oz. 3dwt. per ton. Truly, a great mine 1
• * * *
The current year’s gold output for W.A. is
nearly certain to reach 2,000,0000 z., for, though some
mines, such as Lake View Consols and Associated, will
show a decrease, a number of others, such as the Fingall,
Cosmopolitan, Horseshoe, Perseverance, Boulder, Ida H.,
Kalgurli, South Kalgarli, Oroya, Associated Northern,
Ivanhoe, are expected to show a considerable increase.
» * » *
The Kalgurli, which has been equipped with
nine Edwards’ furnaces, announces its first output from
the new plant of 1010 tons for 12650 z. for a broken
period. The plant is expected to treat a minimum of
3000 tons monthly. Development work in depth is going
on, and enough ore is opened up to ensure continuous
running for a long time. In the boom period of 1899 the
shares were run up to £ll, a price they are never likely
to see again. The mine will probably earn dividends of
25 to 30 per cent, on capital, so extreme value of shares
is not more than 60s.
* • * *
Hannan’s Oroya has been driving north at the
600 ft. level towards the rich chute worked by the North-
ern Associated and Brown Hill, and will shortly start
driving from the 700 ft. level. As the chute is dipping
south towards the shaft, it should soon be cut at the
latter level. The Oroya, it is asserted, should have nearly
1000 ft. of the rich pipe within its boundary and, on its
being located, shares ought to improve in value.
* • * *
Oversight, Bulong: 13140 z. from 32 tons—an
average of 41oz. per ton. Since the discovery of the lode,
a year ago, 957 tons have been treated for 97690 z. The
deepest point reached is 52ft. The workings are described
as being awful to contemplate.
* * * *
Ravenswood (Q.) items Donnybrook : Last
crushing 210 tons, 4580 z. lldwt., and 30 tons concentrates,
worth lOoz. per ton. This average has been maintained
for the past 12 months Sunset: 576 tons, 9180 z., and
885os. from the concentrates. Some old shows at the
Kirk diggings, 12 miles from Ravenswood, are being
wrestled with by Towers battlers, and things are likely to
hum there shortly. Several small shows are on stone
going from 17dwt. up to 25 dwt., but, as there is no bat-
tery on the field, they hardly pay expenses. “ A Govern-
ment battery is what is wanted.” [The Bulletin
has its doots. Charters Towers speculators are too
cute to allow any promising field near-by to languish for
want of a 10-head battery.]
* » * »
Lake View: Diamond drill bore from the
seventh level has cut the Perseverance lode, which is
three feet wide and worth only three dwts. per ton.
“ The mineralised character of the ore is regarded by the
management as encouraging.” Is it so to the “ poor
deluded fools” who were induced to pay over £2O for the
shares ? A London paper says that “ Lake Views are the
Ireland of the Westralian market”—whatever that may
mean—and it is prophesied that the question of providing
further capital will become acute within a few months.
* * « *
A strong sidelight is thrown on Mount Lyell’s
successful operations by the half-yearly report of North
Lyell. Quantity of ore sent to Mount Lyell in the half-
year, 44,249 tons ; average, 7'53 per cent, copper. The
contract between the two companies has never been dis-
closed, but it has been admitted that it has been very
satisfactory to Mount Lyell. Probabilities are that from
deductions for losses (which do not occur in well-
regulated works) and profit on smelting and realisation
charges, it has netted at least £2 per ton on this ore,
besides the indirect profit from the use of the ore as a
flux. With their own plant at work North Lyell would
have made more profit on the ore sent to Mount Lyell
than it made on all its consignments, including 12,494
tons of 17'33 per cent, ore shipped to England and the
continent. North Lyell people threaten to start their
smelters next month. This will be a nasty jar for Mount
Lyell. North Lyell, on appearances, is the champion
benevolent mine of the continent.
9 * * *
Mt. Garnet: Chairman informs shareholders
that, if copper does not improve in price, they must wait
some time for dividends. Latest report from mine
states that the ore in the bottom level carries 5 per cent,
copper, which, with Mt. Garnet systems, would be unpay-
able even if copper were to improve in value.
* * * *
N.S.W. dredging returns for last week show an
improvement. Macquarie No. 1,104 oz. (first three-figure
return), Araluen Central, S3oz., and Associated, 71oz.
Jembaicumbene pays a dividend of fid. on the 7th April,
which will make the return in eight months equal to 25
per cent, of the capital. Writer prides himself on the fact
that four years ago he named Araluen and Jembaicum-
bet?e as the most likely spots in N.S.W. for successful
dredging operations.
• • * »
At Lloyd’s Burraga mine, mining operations
have been suspended temporarily, owing, it is reported,
to the failure of the concentrating plant. The co. has
been most unfortunate with its mechanical appliances.
At the outset two 120-ton water jacket furnaces, com-
bining all the latest improvements, were ordered, but
never erected,although every preparation had been made
for putting them in position. The process was condemned
without being given a trial. Writer is aware that a party
of practical smelters- as distinguished from laboratory
theorists—offered to find the fluxes and run the furnaces
for three months without pay if they did not get satisfac-
tory commercial results, but the proposal was pooh-poohed
by the governing authorities. The concentrating plant,
which has cost over £50,000, is said to be a dead failure.
It is an open secret that several mechanical experts have
been working at it for nearly three months trying to effect
adjustments to make it workable. Mine has developed
far beyOnd the most sanguine anticipations, and had the
company been content to follow Lloyd’s systems on an
enlarged scale it would have been in the dividend list
long since. Writer does not assume that-there was no
justification for adopting more up-to-date methods, hut
he asserts that a wrong might have been done to an indi-
vidual, and possibly to the shareholders, in not giving the
metallurgist who recommended blast furnace treatment
an opportunity to demonstrate whether or not his judg-
ment was sound.


PAVIP JONES*"COMPANY
George and Barrack Streets, Sydney.
HIGH-CLASS HATTERS
Men’s
Black
Semi
Stiff
■A i V.
V ■}
10/6 13/6 15/6
High
Grade
Selecting
Fur Felt .
Eye COMFORT!
Is yours if you come here for
your glasses. We’ll test your
eyes FREE, and advise glasses
ONLY when absolutely neces-
sary. n.b. —Post Test sent
Free to any country address.
WOOD, THE
299
Ceorge-st.
OPTICIAN,
Note
ONLY Address—299 George-st., Sydney
(Tor of Hunter-st. in George-st.)
and Equitable Buildings. Elizabeth-st., Melbourne
EVA BRAHAM,
LADIES’ HAIRDRESSER,
From H. P. Truefitt, 114 Old Bond Street, London,
Pupil of Dr. Gurney, M.D., L.R.C.P., L.R.C.S., Harley
Street, Cavendish Sq., London, W.
HAIR & SKIN TREATED.
CONSULTATION GRATIS.
Pamphlet on the Art of Preserving the Complexion,
Hair, Nails and Feet, POST FREE. 'i
HENNA TINCTURE
for STAINING GREY HAIR.
Harmless and Effectual. In three
shades—Black, Brown, and Light Brown. 3s. per case
Hair Stained from 21s.
LADIES’ ORNAMENTAL HAIR made up in all NWest
Styles. Prices Moderate.
Removal of Superfluous Hair and Chiropody by an Expert
EVA BRAHAM,
15 First Floor, Equitable Buildings,
George Street, Sydney, near g.p.o.
SOCIETY
LEROY
LIQUEUR
BRANDY
Despite the Premiers’ stickling for recogni-
tion of alleged rights the State political magnate
looms ever smaller. Half Victoria isn’t quite
sure of its Governor’s name yet and not one in a
hundred could say where he or any of his Ministers
is at a given moment. T’other day when Gov.
Sydenham Clarke went to Daylesford to open a
poppy-show or something the Argus summarised
the whole proceedings—speech and all—in a fl-
inch par.
Admiral Rawson, who will shortly be a
kind of damaged or second-class Governor in
N.S.W., seems to have had his leg pulled pretty
considerably as to the scope of his powers. Gush-
ing to an interviewer:
Being a naval officer in control is a certain kind of pre-
paratory education for a Governor, I believe. The
handling and manoeuvring of a naval squadron gives a
man firmness, an unhesitating faculty of making up his
mind, and some nerve.
And, sad to relate, the most undecided man on
earth would fill the State Governor’s billet just as
well as Ad. Rawson. He might not open the dog-
show or the new bridge with such resolution or
strength of mind, but even if an embarrassed and
weak-minded Governor fainted from excitement
while trying to open the bridge and had to be
carried away; the bridge would be just as open as
if it had been opened by all the master minds of
ancient and modem times.
* * * *
Seven days after departure of last
detachment of the A.M.C. for Africa, two horses
left behind by them were found in stalls at the
Sydney Agricultural Society grounds. During the
seven days or more that these unfortunates were
without food orwater, a number of the cohentingent
men were quartered at the ground, but these par-
ticular horses were, somehow or other, nobody’s
business, and were only discovered by accident.
When examined they were in a terrible condition,
and though slowly pulling round are still on the
sick list.
NO OTHER WAY.
“Now, this must have been a ease
of love at first sight.”
“ Why?” “Impossible that either could have looked twice.”
Probably those devout local legislators who
appoint days of “humiliation and prayer ” have as
much faith in their efficacy as Sir Robert Walpole
Geor g e ll-’3 queen, Caroline, was
said to the Princess Emily, “Pray, madam, let
this farce be played ; the Archbishop will act it
very well. You may bid him be as short as you
will. It will do the Queen no hurt, no more than
any good; and it will satisfy all the wise and good
fools who will call us atheists if we don’t pretend
to be as great fools as they are.”
* * * *
N.S.W. railways provide an electric alarm
in each carriage, by means of which a passenger
can in case of emergency, call the guard and stop
the train ; a fine of £lO is provided for using the
alarm “without due cause.” Now, supposing a
defenceless man found himself bundled, just as a
train moved off, into a carriage where the only
other occupant was a woman under 75, and he
stopped the train. Would any intelligent magis-
trate inflict a fine ? If so what fraction of the £lO
fine would meet the case ?
* * * •
When will N.S. W. Railway Commissioners
arrange for the decent ventilation of their
sleeping cars ? To occupy one in the hot, Aus-
tralian summer, with some dozens, perhaps,
of fat hard-drinkers, and a consumptive or two,
is to run the risk of an early grave; any life
society knowing its business would load the lives of
those who travel by sleeping-car. Go into a
sleeper about 6 a.m. and you encounter Air on its
deathbed, gasping in hot sweating corruption ;
and the human beings immersed in this oily and
nauseating medium swoon heavily rather than
sleep. It is a fine hunting-ground for bacilli, the
N.S.W. sleeping-car.
» • * *
A Minister (of Health!), several M’sL.A.,
and about 150 councillors and assorted sundries,
journed to Spring Vale, lately, to open Melbourne’s
new cemetery. There was a subsequent “lun-
cheon,” on the adjoining racecourse. The local
inhabitants opined that the “openers” were
hard-up for a job, but they manifestly overlooked
the depressing effect of viewing 766 acres of pros-
pective graves and the thoughts of the 2,070,000
late-lamenteds who will ultimately be planted
therein. The trustees of the new ground have
catered for Melbourne’s tastes to a nicety. The
different churches are carefully portioned off, so
that there will be no quarrelling, and in the centre
of the ground is a “superior” section for mixed
religions a sort of dress-circle for the Naicest
only—for “ those whose memories relatives may
desire to perpetuate by specially-elaborate monu-
ments.” When Gabriel blows the last trump
there will be no loud, unseemly blast on this
hallowed spot: a white-winged messenger will tap
gently on the sod, present his card, and murmur,
daintily, “The Almighty presents His compli-
ments, and would Mrs. Toorak kindly step up-
stairs.” Wrote Francis Adams: “I hate rich
Melbournians, they are such snobs —they are worse
even than English people.”
* * • •
What may happen to a man in a Sydney
eating-house:—
At Sydney Hospital, last night, a man presented him-
self in the casualty-room in a state of terror. He was
partaking of mince-meat in a city restaurant,' he ex-
plained, when, to his horror, he discovered on his plate a
tiny mouse. His thoughts at once turned to plague.
And a daily newspaper calls this an “amusing
experience.”
* • • •
N.S.W. Government is most inconsistent.
When drought comes along it appoints a day of
humiliation and prayer for rain ; when the plague
comes it appoints a day for exterminating the
rats. If prayer is efficacious for one evil, why not
for the other ? O ye of little faith !
* * • •
An i nspe ctor in an Australian city con-
“ * "5“ V*”
habitation, and they were destroyed. The citizen
retor * ed b ?, accusing the inspector of insanitary
mo ™ ls ’ and the was dismissal. Now
are engagmg the attention of a libel
* * * •
A new professor of clairvoyance in Sydney
undertakes to reveal to students questions on
examination papers which must be tackled at a
near day. He explains that not earlier than a
couple of days before the examination is he to be
consulted as the “papers might not be fully
printed.
A very great potentate indeed was im-
prisoned for 20 minutes recently in a back yard
and subjected to great contumely. An under-
strapper, who knew him not, found him languidly
picking a flower in a Sydney park where such
things are not allowed, refused to be crushed by
presentation of the great man’s card, pointed with
a cold unbiassed hoe at the printed regulations,
drove the great man before him like a clothed
bullock to the curator’s house, and, the official not
being there, locked him in a yard till further
orders. Words fail to express what happened
when the official looked into that yard and found
who was illegally confined therein.
GOT WHAT HE ASKED.
JUDGE (to witness): “What’s your name?” Witness: “James Spinks
JUDGE : “ Spell it. ” WITNESS: “J-a-m-e-s — James”
(His Honor's remarks here were utterly unintelligible.)
Sydney City Council, on the suggestion of
Alderman Meagher, sent round 18 carts, after,the
great Day of Rat Poisoning, and collected 50 rats,
a fraction less than 3in each cart. It might have
got more, but many public-spirited citizens, after
getting their poison gratis, refused to part with
their rats unless the dead were paid for
at the current rate of 3d. each. What these
citizens really require is to be made to pay for
their rat poison, to be fined £2o—with the
alternative of three months’ gaol for owning dirty
rat-infested premises, and to be made to deliver
their dead rats at the incinerator in a humble and
apologetic spirit. The unspeakable insolence of
dirty people requires to be put down. Apropos,
has anything been done yet with that Sydney J.P.
who wrote to the papers stating that his house (he
gave the address) was swarming with rats, and
admitting almost in so many words that he was
doing nothing to make his premiss less of a public
danger, but demanding to know why the city
authorities didn’t come to clean up the establish-
ment for him ? If any case ever called aloud for a
htiavy fine and costs that one did.
Half-a-dozen ancient and inter-
esting volumes, containing reference
to some first families, have been re-
moved, for obvious reasons, from the
jurisprudence shelves in Sydney Free
Library. Perhaps they have been
added to the Australian collection.
The volumes are the “ Newgate
Calendars,” of dates early in the last
century.
« * *
“ Coogee ” : Scene, King-street, near
Pitt-street, Sydney. Time, Rat Day eve, 5 o’clock.
Going along I noticed the crowd giving a wide
berth to the gutter and discovered the reason in
two dead rats lying therein. Just as I was pass-
ing, a shabbily-dressed man spotted them. His
face brightened arid he grabbed them and put one
in each pocket of his coat. Satisfying himself
that there were no more to be picked, up in that
gutter, he mixed again with the crowd. Don’t
know if he had any more about his person.
• • * *
Letter recently received by a Christchurch
(M.L.) manufacturing firm :
I think thear is a mistacke I neavear got a Bil of the
iteames you neavour sent me a Bil on Janeary ol i got
wus a post Ourd on janearv 5 i reseved this bil but i want
two no wat i am pay the mone for i no wat i ad but send
me abil of wat i ad if i ad got the Bil on Janeary with the
iteams on you wud got your mone be for now.
A Bulletin man, who asked a Sydney
doctor in authority the other day to recommend
to him a clean dairy, was informed that there was
not to his '
knowledge a
single dairy
in the
N.S. Wales
metropolis
absolutely
free from
suspicion of
tuberculosis,
typhoid, etc.
The real objection to the Melbourne
street fruit-hawker has not yet been so much
as hinted at. The property owner and the wealthy
trader have often spoken, but not a single voice has
been raised in the interests of public health. And
yet the health of the community is in much greater
danger from the street fruit hawker than is
property or trade. Melbourne is a city of
magnificent distances and its streets have no
turns and bends to impede the rolling dust-clouds,
It staggers anyone who considers the subject
to think of the millions of disease germs carried
around in the Melbourne dust clouds. To these
germs the uncovered fruit on the street barrows
is open for a perching place. Then there are the
hawkers themselves. For the most part they
live in the filthiest portions of the city. They
are dirty in their habits, and their clothes in
many cases reek with dirt. An inspection of the
men in Swanston-street any day will revea.l the
fact that many of them are diseased—diseased , in
a large open public way that there is no denying
or concealing. They paw the fruit with grimy
hands and polish it with cloths which
serve many purposes. They come out unwashed
THE MORBID NATIVE.
MOTHER: “ Why are you. looking, so glum, Edie?”
THE KID : “ Mummer, mine has been a wasted
life.”
and they remain unwashed all day. It is argued
that the public want the fruit hawkers in the
street, and that therefore there should be fruit
hawkers. The public that is prepared to buy
fruit under these circumstances is a hog public
and the clean members of the community should
be protected against it.
lb has come ! At a Sydney police court,
recently, a woman was fined for expectorating on
the footpath.
LULLABY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Lambs are sleeping in the fold,
All the little birds take rest,
And my Baby dreams —behold !
Warm asleep upon my breast.
Two wee feet within my hand,
Whither do those feet now stray ?
In what realm of Slumber Land
Does my Baby wend his way ?
It is where the Lady Moon
Holds her revels in the sky ...
Where the stars all sing the tune
Of a Baby’s lullaby ?
It is where the mermaids swim
Through the waves’ phosphoric gleam,
While, asleep in sea-caves dim,
Silly mermen lie and dream ?
Hush 1 . . . The fire sinks low—is dead—
Ah—how short a night is this—
Soon the waking Day burns red,
Underneath the Sun’s warm kiss !
The Young ’Un.


J.D.K.Z. GIN.
— : ♦ ——— ■
Messrs. JN. DE KUYPER & ZOON’S famous
Gin has been established no less than 207 years,
and to-day enjoys the distinction of being the
most popular stimulant in the world. Its medi-
cinal qualities surpass those of any other spirit—
where a health and life-giving stimulant is re-
quired it will do all that the. best brandy can do,
but is much superior for liver and kidney troubles.
Those who are particular about the quality of the
liquid they take, ask for J.D.K.Z. Agents for
N.S.W,, LUCAS LOCK & CO., Macquarie-
Plaec Sydney.
V*
I
• L%o'u%ss& m umm ■
TheWhiskyof The Wise 1
g
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers’
Gazette, and Sailing List with map.
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 Collins-st., Melbourne. 4 Hunter-st., Sydney.
REFORM WITHOUTREVOLUTION.— The
great and particular merit of Hunyadi Janos is
that it relieves without discomfort, in other words,
it effects reform without revolution. This is
because it is the best and safest natural aperient.*
Patents for Inventions. —Arthur Griffi : h
and Allen, International Patent Agents and Con-
sulting Engineers, University Chambers, Phil! ip-
street, Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyrights
throughout the world.*
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
SILVER STAR STARCH.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Australia's
Leading Tonic
Beverage.
Albert Park (Melbourne) reserve, extend-
ing from Clarendon-street, South Melbourne, to
St. Kilda, has a bad reputation as the happy
hunting-ground of two or three small parties of
blackmailers, The night-prowlers “fox”
couples, and then hold the unhappy man
up, threatening all sorts of things if
not bribed with cash or valuables.
One moonlight night, recently, a St.
Kilda citizen, riding home on his bike,
heard angry voices and a woman’s
scream coming from a grove about a
hundred yards from the road, and
was plucky enough, or curious
enough, to, investigate. He found
three blackniailers “dealing with ” a
young man, who was fighting the
band with considerable vigor, while a
.young woman lay on the grass sob-
bing violently. The newcomer
chipped in, knocking out one bad lot
with a heavy left in the place
where it would do most good.
The fight that ensued went all
against the freebooters,and pre.
sently the party drew off with
great loss of prestige, leaving
the rescued warmly thanking
the rescuer. Then the former
lifted the sobbing female off
the grass that she might thank
him also. About one minute
later another free fight commenced
on the spot. All over such a trifle,
too. The lady wailing on the grass
had proved to be, the rescuer’s own
wife.
♦* y *
The very latest way of
making a living in Australia.
A man who claims to be a
B.A. argues on any and
every subject with anyone in
the streets, and, when a
crowd assembles, sends
round the hat. A heated
argument always draws a big
crowd, and the collection is gener-
ally fairly satisfactory.
For the common or garden offence of
“ bilking ” his landlady an ex-Vic. Fifth Cohen-
tingenter was summarily given a month by P.M.
Panton t’other day,—though the sentence was
afterwards suspended to give him a chance to
square the bill—a small 16s. .But a few months
ago any landlady who dared to take such action
would have been chased into the Benevolent
Asylum as a Pro-Boer. The name of this ex-
swaddy—hold your breath—was Robert Emmett.
• • * *
The noble art of convoy-capturing is pro-
gressing in Australia. Hardly had the two
alleged perpetrators of the Port Adelaide capture
gone into retirement before a Bendigo mine-
manager’s convoy of wages was captured in an
even more artistic, and peculiarly S’African style.
The operator didn’t encumber himself with a
mate, or fool with a revolver. His tool was a
Winchester rifle—surer and hardly less handy.
He began by shooting the team —that is to say,
the buggy-horse. Always shoot the teams if you
want to stop a convoy. Mine-manager tried to
jump out of the buggy with the money-bags,
tripped, fell, dropped the bags, got up and found
himself surrounded by this solitary De Wet and
looking down the barrel of the rifle. He
stepped back and De la Rey picked up the
bags. Meanwhile a zealous youth had left his
dinner. He came over and asked the manager if
he had a revolver. He also tried to pull Paul
Kruger off his horse, and got knocked down for
his pains. Then Stevn galloped off and vanished
into space, and all search for Cronje proved fruit-
less. If the police have any glimmering of sense
they will hunt through the description of cohen-
tingenters (if any official department,has had the
sense _ to keep them) and they will probably
identify the lost commando.
What the hash-house industry has come
to. Advt. from recent Sydney Morning Herald :
"YTT ANTED, in or near city, BOARD, Residence,
»V widow, two daughters, two sons, two gentle-
men, two boys, 6,4, would require sitting-rm., meals
privately, 3or 4 bedrooms, terms £4 weekly. Apply
999, Herald, Hunter-street.
Less than nine shillings each per week, and a
sitting-room, and private meals ! Yet they may
get it. There are scores of places in Sydney
which provide board and lodging for 10s. a week.
* * *. *
At a Presbyterian tea-meeting in Sydney
t’other day apologies for non-attendance were
received from various parsons, including one from
Dill Mucky—under date St. Patrick’s day, and
written in green ink !
A GIDDY LITTLE THING .
THE SHEPHERD: “ I cannot imagine what pleasure
you find in going to the theatre.”
SHE: “Oh! there are three pleasures. First,
thinking about it all day beforehand. Second,
enjoying it while you are there; and third,
rolling it as a sweet morsel under your
tongue all the next day."
Public bathing bids fair to become a source
of profit. Recently the beautiful legs of a Sydney
society girl, bathing at Bondi in the scantiest
attire, attracted the attention of two dabblers in
“ color,” one of whom, after waiting till the
damsel had dressed, offered her £5 to let her legs
be photo’d—entirely, of course, in the interests of
art. The lady hesitated, but decided, like a
sensible girl, that her legs were safer where they
were.
• • • •
“ E.E.” writes:
Mr. O’Sullivan was so highly shocked at reports he
received about mixed bathing at Little Coogee, that he
hied himself off to the spot without even announcing his
trip to the newspapers. After a minute and careful
inspection of the costumes worn by the bathers, Mr.
O’Sullivan concluded “that the ladies’ costumes were all
right,” but he was shocked at the scant costumes of the
men. Minister for Lands Crick, however, whose sense of
propriety is more tender, was inexpressibly shocked at
the whole show, and said that the present state of affairs
must cease. Bathers are in doubt as to whether he
means mixed bathing or scanty costumes. Mr. Crick
also promises to erect shelters for dressing and undress-
ing, which no doubt are urgently wanted. Though a dip
at Little Coogee is indulged in by many respectable
people, there are a tew undesirables who make this spot
objectionable by their disgraceful antics. On Sundays
that the writer has gone to this spot for a dip he has wit-
nessed indescribably disgusting incidents. Every Sunday
a crowd of roughs enter the water and act most indecently
Besides making the bathers wear more clothes, ;the
Government ought to appoint a special constable’to be
daily in attendance, and to have the power to order
away, or arrest, the roughs and street women who make
this favorite bathing resort objectionable.
» • * •
The table upon which the late Queen
Victoria signed the Commonwealth _ Act is
now on exhibition under a glass case in Melb.
Parliament House. For long it stood in the hall
uncovered, and its garish legs were used by the
country visitors of members to strike matches on.
Prominent in the pawnshops of Melbourne
are boxes of Queen Victoria’s chocolate, bearing
the medallion of her late Majesty and the crest of
Windsor. How much the chocolate was pawned
for is a mystery.
• * * •
Te Aroha (M.L.), which burned Campbell-
Bannerman in effigy as a low-down disloyalist, is
the cockiest borough for its size (about 500 popu-
lation) on earth. At the time of the Dreyfus
trial it burned the French flag, and Gov. Ranfurly
had to apologise to the French consul for the
“ insult.” Te Aroha proudly claims that the first
telegram of congratulation received in Mafeking
by Birnum Powell was from “the Mayor and
Councillors of Te Aroha,” and firmly believes that
Chamberlain, glancing at his Times of a morning,
always looks first to see what Te Aroha is doing.
That was a dreadful crime alleged against
Albert Edward Macnamara, at Melbourne —
setting fire to his house to burn his wife and two
children (one of whom was killed), so as to collect
certain insurance-moneys. He was convicted
under the clause which makes it a capital-offence
to set fire to an inhabited house. Accused was
sentenced to death, but there seems room for a
shadow of doubt as to the man’s murderous inten-
tions, since he made a brave and successful effort
to save the second child.
Apropos fire-raising for fee. In Nov., ’B2,
at Sydney, Wm. Dunn was sentenced to death by
Judge Windever for causing the death of Mrs.
Wright by setting fire to the premises in which
she resided. Mrs. Wright’s death was caused by
jumping from an up-stairs window. Dunn had
frequently earned the five shilling fee for first
information and the fire-brigade supt. began to
suspect him. Dunn was reprieved and was
released after serving 15 years. He admitted that
he always spent the paltry fee in beer.
• * * *
The Lance divorce case (Newcastle,
N.S.W.) evoked one witness—a full-grown white
cabman wearing the British name of Smith —who
said on oath that he didn’t know what month he
was in or what next month would be, who couldn’t
tell the name of last month, who didn’t know what
month New Year’s Day fell in, and who declined
to commit himself as to the number of days in the
week or the names of the days.
HOW THEY MAKE ENGAGEMENTS IN
MELBOURNE JUST NOW.
JIM BILL : “ Cornin' fer a stroll in the gar dings,
Mord?”
MAUD: “ Not me. Not much—till I see that
you hain't any stricherine or razors about
yer."
A curious legal point is likely to arise in
England. Under the Child Messenger Act
children must not be sent to public-houses for
beer. Therefore the old man goes himself. He
stays. He gets drunk. In the end the mother
sends the child who used to fetch the beer to
bring the old man home. And seeing that the
child goes to the public-house for the old man,
and incidentally, for the beer that is in the old
man, is that sending the child to the public-house
for beer ?
One of the Q. S’Africa contingent was con-
victed in Brisbane last week of stealing jewellery
from a sleeping man. Accused said he couldn’t
help it (evidently had acquired the habit on the
veldt) and asked the Judge to let him off on con-
dition that he left for S’Africa at once. He was
sure he could make a living over there ! ! Judge
Noel gave him 12 months “with leave to apply”
on condition that he returned to the field of glory
—and unconsidered trifles.
* * * •
Dr. George Armstrong, of College-street,
Sydney (and of the honorary medical staff of
Sydney Hospital), whose engagement _to MisS
Florence Ewan, of Glenleigh, Penrith, was
announced last week, is not, as was then
erroneously stated, health officer for Sydney city,
that position being occupied by Dr. W. G.
Armstrong.
• * * *
"""The Jewish clergy in Sydney take the
“ mixed marriages ” question much more seriously
than do those of the Christian sects. Rabbi
Landau, preaching on the subject recently,
Exhorted the members of the Jewish Community not
to continue to countenance such marriages ; as the action
was a disgraceful thing. Jews or Jewesses who had con-
tracted these marriages should suffer social ostracism.
And he threatened further —
Although he hoped to end his days in the service of this
congregation, he would resign his connection with it and
seek another field for his usefulness if he could not very
shortly find some attention was given to this, his most
sincere appeal for assistance to stop this growing evil,
c * • »
The flooding of the Cardigan mine at
Ballarat recalls the similar disaster at the New
Australasia mine at Oreswick, on Dec. 12th., ’B2 ;
but in the earlier case there were 22 drowned
miners. The fund raised for the sufferers by that
catastrophe reached £20,000, and though booin-
time bungling reduced it to £ll,OOO there are
still a few hundreds over annually after providing
for the widows and the few remaining infants.
• * • *
Revolting piece of cable-grovel:—
Long-sentence prisoners,
with all their blushing broad -
arrows thick upon them,
are employed digging, weed-
ing, etc., about Hobart
Botanical Gardens. It is
also a common thing in
Hobart to see a procession
of loaded drays coming
in from the bush with
firewood for the "gaol
and other Government
institutions, each team
in charge of a shame-
faced chap in prison
clothes, and the whole
procession superinten-
ded by a warder in
uniform, who walks along
the pavement within re-
volver-range of the first and
last dray. It is probably
hereditary in Tas. rulers —this
desire to parade the prisoners in
Sublic; so like old times, you know.
governor Havelock, the recently ‘im-
ported occupant of the big brown
mansion on the banks of the Der-
went, evidently takes kindly to the local fashion,
for the prisoners are now employed as scrubbers
and sweepers within the Great House itself, even
in the drawing and bedrooms.
THE LITANY OF ANNNEXATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
By smoking hearths on wasted plain,
’Mid tears of women shed, shed in vain,
In lust of loot and greed of gain,
Hear us, good Lord !
For foreign land, ’mid foreign sea,
To yoke a race that once was free,
To smite and grip, we pray to Thee,
Aid us, good Lord !
From sneer of friend and curse of foe,
From brand of avarice, hour of woe,
From mills that grind, increasing, slow,
Deliver us, Lord !
JOHN CAREW.
FIRST ATTEMPTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hr ; My dear, I was dreaming last night
(Though it seems rather heartless to tell),
A dream of your first attempts—
Even now I remember them well:
Your puff-paste that wouldn’t puff,
Your jelly that didn’t quite jell—
Lost souls were eating them wearily
In the dining-room section of ——.
She : How strange too that I should have dreamt 1
(Though I don’t know how it befell)
A dream of your first attempts.
Is it strange I remember them well ?
Your metre that wouldn’t quite meet,
Your satire that didn’t quite tell—
Lost souls were conning them drearily
In the library section of .
PAULA.
THE KING’S GIFT.
London, March 19.
It has transpired that after last Friday night’s Court
reception King Edward, on his own initiative , forwarded
to the various hospitals the surplus viands and delicacies
for the patients.
The banquet-board is cleared again
And from the remnants Jeames and Jane
With bellies round go bedward :
Now from the rags of broken meat
The beggar tribe is bid to eat
And bless King Edward.
To those worn limbs whose wasted thews
Pay for what kingly stomachs use,
To inspire their noble wishes,
What Royal merit never earns
A Royal insolence returns —
In dirty dishes.
Yours be the scraps, poor hungry crew 1
Dukes must be fed, and flunkeys too,
If Kingship to survive is :
With the fat butler’s overplus
Be thou content, 0 Lazarus !
“ God save King Dives I ”
X.


IF YOU WOULD . .
“Stand on Uelvet”
MARK FOY’S
10s. BOOT
A Combination
of COMFORT,
NEATMESS
and
POOP WEAR
is
What You Want!
dsg
Do you like Coffee ?
Perfect, Pure,
Fragrant, Exhilarating Coffee
Then Try
> H. SmiTH’S
Cold
Medal
Coffee Essence
THE VERY BEST
Australian Representatives:
SWIFT 4. COMPANY,
SPRING STREET,
BYDNEY.
»nir
V
II |
V
All rrapers Everywhere.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, March 25,1902.
My Dear Arini,—
. About the biggest theatrical entertainment
m England is to take place at Westminster in a
month or two, and various magazines of the Bits
order, besides numerous local publications, are
breaking out into “Etiquette at Coronations”
and advice as to the number of gold knobs a
duchess must wear on her top-hamper as compared
with those on a countess. Papers with names
like the Bundaroq Advertiser are very anxious
and overworked nowadays, telling duchesses about
these knobs. The Duke of Norfolk, who, as grand
Keeper of Something or Hereditary Loser of
Somebody, has control over the ladies’ costuming,
some time ago fell publicly into the soup by
decreeing that the peeresses should wear —in
midsummer—ermine bodices, stiff, old-fashioned
kirtles, and red velvet mantles, but he has been
so severely warned of the folly of his proceedings
by the Hungerford Banner and the Boppy Moun-
tain Express that the shattered nobleman is
going “to see what he can do.” As most of the
duchesses—on the authority of a Maoriland agri-
cultural paper—are young and lovely, it is likely
that Norfolk will have to reconsider things a good
deal. There is a legend, by the way, that one
elderly widower of the peerage decided to marry
again, as it would not look respectful to Edward
VII. to be without a wife at the Coronation. The
nobleman who could marry out of a desire for
symmetry, and to please Edward’s sense of tidi-
ness in the peerage, should be a man worth know-
ing. _ He is probably descended from that sym-
metrical baron of long ago who, having only three
malefactors to hang at a place where four roads
met, hung a casual passer-by rather than have
these cross-roads looking unfinished and dis-
orderly.
Fifteen year old premier-Duke-of-Ireland
Leinster was doing the Jenolan Caves when the
eold snap of last week painted the Blue Mountains
white and froze him back to lower levels. The
boy of many titles, acres, and thousands has an
uncle, Lord Charles Fitzgerald, living in the
neighbourhood of Sunbury (Vic.) on a small patch
of land which he cultivates intensely. Primogeni-
ture law is a hardship for such as he. Lord
Cholly, who is a very fine-looking young man,
married, some ten years ago, a tall, thin girl, of
Greek extraction, who had been awhile on the
dramatic stage. When he and his consort were in
town they would would call upon his ma-in-law in
East Melbourne, he carrying the old baby and
Lady C. the new. Every one who knew them
said of them good things and that if Lord C.
hadn’t the strawberry leaves jn his hair, no better
man had. 1
So Mr. Frank Gardiner has married the
Parisian beauty whom his connoisseurish eye and
heart desired. As he appears to be worth many
millions he will not miss the one million that he is
said to have given his second wife, Carrie Swain,
to make a “ widower ”of him. His first wife, an
actress named Phillips and her (and his) family
reside in America, and for them also he has well
provided. And yet when Gardiner and Carrie
Swain were here, not so many years ago, pretty
well all the gold they had was the gold of Carrie’s
hair. King Edward VII and F.G. once went
motoring together but, so goes the story, they
don’t speak now. The King didn’t like being
snap-shotted on the swivel seat with the actor-
miner by the latter’s agents. Mrs. Browne-Potter
had made the Personage and the person
acquainted.
When Mrs. J. C. Williamson was leaving
Sydney on Sunday night to join her husband in
Melbourne, Redfern platform was crowded with
friends and sympathisers requesting her to tell her
husband “to keep his tail up.” The lady heard
them all in a resigned sort of manner, and then for
answer passed round her husband’s telegram:
“Don’t worry, Mammie. A great misfortune,
but we’ll pull through if God spares us our health.
My chief sorrow is for my people thrown out of
employment.” The tail of J.C.W. evidently still
waves.
Perhaps the most disagreeable revelation in the
Willoughby divorce case to the principals therein
was the publication of their real names—Dowse,
not Willoughby ! Reminds one, somehow, of a bag
of wet sand. But there was a Baron Dowse, an
eminent judge, so the petitioner dowses in good
company. The wife was alleged to have had an off-
hand, simple way of notifying important matters.
She informed her husband, then in S’Africa, by a
post card that “ she didn’t want anything more to
do with him.” No trouble of moistening en-
velope-flaps and stamps. You can say but little
on a p.c., but the import may be great.
The age of chivalry is not dead, but chivalrous
practice has only one really distinguished ex-
ponent in Sydney, an Em Pay of impressive
gallantry. T’other afternoon, as the last rays of
the setting sun were illuminating King-street,
this picturesque personage recognised, standing
in front of a florist’s shop, a young man of his
acquaintance talking with two attractive girls.
Magnificent was the sweep of his saluting hat as
the Em Pay greeted “moi dear-r-r young friend.”
Of course he was introduced to the girls. A
brief, though impressively friendly, interview fol-
lowed—the gallant man the while grasping, with
an air of playful paternalism, the arm of one of
the young ladies. After a space of some four
minutes he retired with another most elaborate
bow and disappeared into the florist’s shop close
by. Presently he emerged shining with gaiety,
carrying with empressement a paper-bag. Again
approaching the young ladies, the courtly saluta-
tion was repeated, the bag opened, and each of
the young dears presented with a charming spray
of flowers, which the donor, after asking permis-
sion with a deferential lowering of his crested
head, was allowed to admiringly fasten to their
fair forms. The gallant then floated away, leaving
behind him that subtle atmosphere of mature
charm which is usually associated with the
“ Indian summer ” of a beautiful woman. The
little scene smacked of the boulevards of Paris—
it was altogether incongruous in bustling, jostling
Sydney.
So many children wear sandals now that the
child sock-trade in Sydney must have fallen off.
After a morning about the city with ma the little
sandal-wearers’ bare legs and feet are very grimy
and must be germy. Why not let the youngsters
wear digitated hose like those worn by the
“ upper classes ” in “ Ben Hur ” ?
“ The law out here (Australia) allows an animal
to be kept 48 hours without food or water. In
England it is only 24.” So writes, in a local
paper, a former sec. to the Animals’ Protection
Society remonstrating with the Railway Commis-
sioners for not watering stock in transit. Think
of the difference between the Australian and
English climates, then ponder on the brutality of
the Australian law in respect to dumb animals !
Railway authorities in England and America are
compelled by law to water stock in transit; here
they may truck them for two days (under a broil-
ing sun) without bite or drink ! And when shunt-
ing occu rs it isoften done, as the writer remarks, with
such violence that animals are thrown from end to
end of the truck. It is a pity that the Animals’
Protection Society is not independent of Govt., so
that it could prosecute the Commissioners until they
were compelled to run stock-trains direct and
water the animals once in 24 hours. Those re-
sponsible deserve to be trucked through all
eternity with intervals for violent shunting.
A proof of what a factor is smart coiffing in a
girl’s appearance. Directors of a certain Sydney
restaurant employ hairdressers to build and wave
the collective hair of their waitresses. So these
girls have got the name of being a stylish-looking
phalanx. Also, they are without exception fair-
haired and thinnish. Perhaps as a counter
contrast to the girls in the restaurant on the other
side of the street, who are mostly dark-haired and
plump, with good complexions—-their very own
complexions. In yet another restaurant, one in
George-street, the employer’s fancy evidently runs
to stature and willowyness. All the girls are as
tall as the cedars of Lebanon were once.
When the “new figure” came in some three
years ago—when your body from your hips up-
wards was a sloping roof for your lower limbs —a
fashionable Melb. drapery store furnished its
employees (women, of course) with the best of
corsets that produced that outline and effect. But
they had to shed the sheaths every evening after
shop-hours. _ I suppose those once long-fronted,
slanting bodies now demonstrate the possession of
hips and abdomens by the wearing of the three-
inch length of corset-belts.
Returning to hair: Artificially fair sort must be
out of fashion. A Sydney draper told me that
two years ago his import order for “hair nets for
gold hair ” was 500 dozen. His latest order for
hair nets included only fifty dozen of the blonde
shade.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ ‘ The Dear Little Shamrock ’ had its most
fashionable hour on 17th at the Town Hall con-
cert, when the Hopetouns and the Irish of quality
rallied to the front, and sat in a framework of
greenery. The Countess, in white satin and
chiffon, with a faint sprinkling of diamonds, sat
cheek-by-jowl with her priestly countryman—Dr.
Carr. The pair talked between the green intervals
with the stately glass-walled reserve characteristic
of each. Smalkum M‘Eacharn’s lady was a shy
neighbor of a big-frontage Redemptionist Father,
and, as that dame has a soft corner in her heart
for the religion of rosaries, she chatted as easily
as might be the missionary. White Knight
Fitzgibbon was in evidence, together with all the
Jay Pay Ryans, Fitzgeralds, O’Loghlens, and
ardent local Hibernians.
“ The Countess drew in her horns considerably
when, to please the exuberant audience, her-
sprightly spouse dwelt on the subject of Irish
girls, relating how he followed ‘ Murphy’s ’
advice to choose a wife in the Emerald Isle. He
could record 16 years of perfect happiness as a
result of that choice, and he recommended all
men to do likewise. Two thousand hands and
feet at once stamped the advice with approval.
His Ex. hit the bull’s-eye to a nicety. That little
bit of palaver will carry him with credit in the
ledgers of Melbourne Paddy till the next 17th of
March.
“The best number of the Snake Saint’s pro-
gramme was Queenie Burroughes’ recitation. The
girl has a melodious voice and an Etna of dramatic
fire. But her appearance didn’t at all come up to
her talent. She stood with feet wide apart, and
she wore tan boots and stockings. Ballarat should
have really seen that so gifted a girl was better
shod. She needs to be entirely re-upholstered.
“Nellie Stewart, apparently, acts on the advice
‘Don’t go into the water at all, unless you make a
splash.’ T’other evening, when the Gov.-General’s
party patronised the Princess, she adver-
tised the gubernatorial ‘turn’ by flower-decora-
tions, Hopetoun blue and yellow lace drapes,
and the presence of powdered, padded flunkeys in
scarlet and green manning the crimson carpet for
the vice-regal pathway, and playing waxworks at
the head of the staircase. In the v.r. box the
Countess took off a gloomy pelisse to show a plain,
black evening-gown and long, white gloves,
stitched with black. Sartorial woe doesn’t suit
the dark Excellency, and as she doesn’t ‘do-up’ a
scrap, disdaining even a hint of powder, she
looked rather brown and massive-faced that
evening. However, she turned away her profile
as much as possible from public inspection, and
her neck aspect is always decorative, thanks to
effective black hair and small, neat ears.
“ From another bedizened-box Dorothy Vane
(Mrs. Menzies) peeped out from behind her
powder-pink cloak. In the d.c., Captain Val-
lange sat ‘all alone with himself together.’
Hopie, himself, seemingly, didn’t enjoy ‘Sweet
Nell ’ quite so much as a farce —say ‘ Tom, Dick
and Harry—though he cracked his thin face in a
cynical smile when jealous Charles, wishing to
cold-shoulder Nell Gwynne, leaned on Lady
Castlemaine on one side and on the Duchess of
Portsmouth on t’other. Nell was cute enough to
know that there’s safety in numbers.
“Another thing that must have made the
Hopetoun wink the eye on his off-side from the
audience was the rapturous approval of the house
when Charles says, ‘the king is the law.’ The
playwright, I suppose, inserted that touch as
characteristic Stuartism, little guessing that so-
called democratic hearers in Australia would not
only swallow his motto of old-fashioned abso-
lutism, but audibly smack their lips over it.
“ Miss Duff, daughter of the late Governor
Duff, of N.S.W., and sister of Captain Duff—the
cipher in the Hopetouns’ suite—has been staying
at the V.R. St. Kilda-road quarters. She is a
tame young thing, and struck recent polo gather-
ings as of small interest from the dress point of
view.
“ There was quite a refreshing number of men
sandwiched among the large petticoated audience
at Marshall Hall’s orchestral concert last Satur-
dao afternoon. Every part of the Town Hall was
comfortably filled, and the long, lean conductor,
with a thick shock of straight black hair inking
his head and three-quarters of his face, bowed
witli baton in hand to the full house. Mar-
shall Hall would look lugubrious were it
not for the expression of his high black
eyebrows, which seem lifted in a suspended
expression of quizzical laughter. ‘ Really ? ’ those
raised brows are saying, in a tone of laughing
incredulity. Herr Edouard Scharf’s contribution
was the delicious morsel of the high-class banquet
of sound. The pianist’s wife—formerly Olive De
Hugard— sat in the balcony, a wrapt soul to the
spell of a master’s touch. Mrs. Scharf is uncom-
monly fresh and pretty. Madame Wiedermann,
plumed in black voile over silk and side-
panels _of sparkling jet, with a well-chosen
head-piece of black chiffon and other inky
trimmings, also satisfied the souls of the
elite, and sent her pupils into violent ecsta •
cies of applause. Her Austrian husband—Carl
Pinschoff—sat in a front row and stamped his stick
stoutly at the close of Madarne’s warble.
“The dear Dani, with his wife, had a seat in
the balcony. The latter was richly decked out in a
cream toilette. The tenor regarded the audience
and the orchestra in turn over a high rail of linen
collar. Our old Melbourne tenor with the historic
name husbanded the Dani’s, and threw out his fat
chest with considerable gratification as he caught
some of the crumbs that fell about in an overflow
from the visiting Orpheus’ table. Near by were
Professor Peterson and his wife—the clever little
lady, who is so great a help to her hubbie, being
tricked forth in a smart biscuit and ink-spotted
foulard with heaps of lace for garnishing, a big
soft chiffon ruff, and a suitable black chiffon
toque. Down in the south gallery Mrs. Eccles,
the most decorative of Marshall Hall’s pupils,
languished, according to her wont, in a navy blue
rig-out, complements of black and blue about her
millinery helping to attain a smart effect. Dr.
Helen Saxton, the first medical woman in Mel-
bourne to ply the lancet, sat in her stolid, common-
sense, mannish style in a straw _ decker, white
dicky and white tailor-built garb, listening closely
to the numbers under way.
“ Major Bartrop, whose revered old snowy
’head is visible in the front rows at every high-
class concert in Melbourne, used his stick fre-
quently at periods of applause, and steered his way
over to Madame Wiedermann to give forth some
pleasant praise at the conclusion of her number.
What a hold the conductor obtains over his
audience ! He commands silence, and he gets it.
One breathes gently, coughs under cover; and dare
not ruffle a silk flounce while that autocrat’s baton
is on the beat.
“Lady Hutton, wife of the Federal Com-
mandant, had hardly shaken the dust of Pall
Mall from her trailing skirts, ere she was elected
to the catmittee of Melb. Women’s Hospital.
That body represents the very Holy of Holies of
Melbourne’s Naicest, and vies with the president-
ship of a golf-club as an emblem of social distinc-
tion. By the way, boycotted by all the young
medicoes, the catmittee is now advertising for an
experienced resident doctor at £250 a year. As
>no medico with any practice would find it worth
while to go for such a salary, it simply means that
the hospital subscribers will be asked to pay £250,
where they formerly paid nothing, for exactly the
same sort of man, and that this money is to be
annually thrown away merely to gratify the
vanity and obstinacy of a lot of meddling women.
“Italy’s newly-arrived Consul-General is one
Signor Camillo Bertola. The unconventional
Corte has departed, and on Tuesday night the
Dante clan welcomed Corte’s successor—an old,
bald-headed gentleman as much like James Smith
as one proverbial pea resembles its podded
brother.
“At that Dante shivoo, Cesca Vollugi, with her
plump figure, ruddy sunny hair, and sweetly
indolent style on the platform, was a real treat,
for she sang her very best, and Cesca’s best is
always charming. In the audience were one or
two social stars, such as Mrs. Dunbar Hooper,
who has enough foreign blood in her composition
and ideas in her brain to enable her to take a real
interest in the Dante Society gatherings. There
is nothing swagger or smart about the general run
■of members, and it is only once in a way that a
■few cultured souls of the more expensive class
come along to enjoy the good music provided, not
forgetting the sandwiches switched on at the
interval.
“Maclaren confessed himself perfectly sick of
•cricket during the final match at Adelaide. On
the last day of play he escaped, immediately after
being bowled, to the races at Port Adelaide, where
he scooped the pool with four winners. Mrs.
Maclaren, who looks carefully after hubby’s in-
terests, saw some of the cricket in the company of
the Tennyson troupe, and then went on to the
races with her self-satisfied lord.
“Rather a joke to read in Clement Scott’s
Free Lance of the prestige of England being
‘effectively maintained by the relatively great
success achieved by Mr. Maclaren’s personal
success, which has so far been one of the most
marked characteristics of the tour.’ This is surely
meant for satire. Most people seem to think the
captain’s ‘personal success’ amounted to zero.
“A young widow, with four children, whose
wealth is described as colossal, has come to Mel-
bourne, and the moths of Sassiety have already
begun their flutterings about her neighborhood.
The wealth is all in the children’s names, but the
mother is trustee, and derives a substantial income
for her maternal protection. At all the recent
race meetings and the polo carnival, Melbourne’s
bachelor of the Forum shepherded her closely.
The interesting stranger, who may be induced to
take notice again, and has emerged from her
purple period of lamentations, is tall and slender,
and just a little—in figure and quiet style—like
the cold Countess. She is going to toast Toorak’s
toes at wintry feasts in her new abode out that
way.
“Sassiety is to be enlivened by a swagger
marriage next month, the principals being Miss
May Harper, the dark-eyed, olive-skinned and
most debonnair daughter of merchant Robert
Harper—(of starch renown) —and Mr. Alfred
Taylor, son of an old Parliamentarian. The
merchant, who does a little in the manufacturing
line, has not all the stiffness attributed to his
starch, but his wife boasts a somewhat rigid back-
bone and considerable gloss. Mrs. Harper has the
air of ‘ La grande dame,’ uses her aristocratic pair
of glasses on an ebony stick, and keeps up at
‘ Myoora,’ Toorak’s toniest mansion, the state of a
Duchess. None of the maternal mannah, how-
ever, has descended to her only daughter. The
bride-elect is as breezy as the capricious and chic
daughter of a certain dear old Judge who is chiefly
known to Sassiety as the father of a dashing
beauty.
“ Rumored that the brilliant and distinguished-
looking representative in Melbourne of Sydney
D.T., for so long a bachelor, has at last succumbed
to Cupid, and will shortly wed a charming and
well-to-do widow. I trust that the lady is not so
rich as to take her husband out of the journalistic
ranks—-for the sake ofjthe public of your
city.
“Miss. Hilda Cumniing will sdon mourkCthe
absence of her fiancee, Lieut. W. Robertson, who
starts off with the Victorian wing of the Common-
wealth warriors. Another engaged girl bids a
weeping au revoir to her best boy, and two or
three charmers who have been greatly in evidence
at the Sunday and holiday visits to the camp at
Langwarrin will take damp farewells this week.
“ A nail-hammering contest for women and a
hat-trimming contest for men were among the
side-shows at a St. Kilda fete the other day. The
picture of a woman with a hammer in her hand,
and a look of set purpose on her face, is always a
funny business, whether it be in a serious case of
urgency or casual competition. It was more
foolish than funny to see the mere male building up
a millinery structure. Captain Dangar tried his
hand at it, and convulsed the giddy young specta-
tors. This is ju-it about the fat, frolicsome cap-
tain’s style. The giggles moved him to greater
awkwardness, and he pretended to make Herculean
exertions before he twisted the trimmings into
shape. Lady Hutton opened the little shivoo,
which was organised to help the lo'S-water funds'
of the St. Kilda Girls’ Club. \
“The scribesses of Melbourne are striving to
form themselves into a club, to engender better
fellow feeling and all that sort of thing; besides
getting a common place of meeting, and a field of
tongue operations, for not content with pen talk
they want the tongue, too, in active service. Two
or three scouts are out looking for rooms, and
meanwhile some eighteen or twenty journalists
and women writers are preparing to enjoy club
privileges.
“ The pen-ladies ran, in a well-gowned:and des-
perately punctual crowd, to thresh out their pro-
posed club. But they will have none of the Salon,
a majority of everyone else to one politely but
firmly declining the honor of ‘reciprocal relations’
with that luxurious home of the middle class
dame. Things in trousers were talked of, not with
bated breath, but with the good-humored cynicism
of the Newest Woman. For the present they are
to be barred, but if they’re wanted later on, to
quote one ingeneous damsel, they can be asked in.
“Deaf-and-dumb-mission promoters want to
build an institute for the adult deaf-mutes of Mel-
bourne. The deaf-and-dumb schools dump their
scholars on the world at the age of sixteen,
strangers in a strange land, cut off by their mis-
fortune from the rest of us. The institute as pro-
posed will combine in itself the advantages of a
social club —employment bureau, relief-agency,
lecture-hall, etc. At an entertainment to raise
funds, held in the Town Hall, t’other night, we
saw three methods of deaf-mute communication.
(1) Oral, (2) language of signs, (3) finger alphabet.
Signs are the most attractive. It’s quite pretty
to see a band of girlish spirits in prison reciting
by gesture ‘ Will you meet me at the fountain ? ’
delineating most gracefully with their hands the
rising and falling of the fountain-spray. Sign-
communication also merits approval as the best
system for brightening up the general appearance
of those who use it. Face expression, smiles,
arm-gestures, attitude, all come into play instead
of mere finger-drill. A clever deaf-mute, Mr.
Muir, grandson of the late Dr. Cairns (a well-
known local pillar of the kirk), did ‘ The Village
Blacksmith ’ in sign-language.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


Citizens’ [ife Assurance Company limited.
Premier Industrial-Ordinary Office of Greater Britain.
POLICIES IW FORCE EXCEED 224:,000.
IMMEDIATE SETTLEMENT OF CLAIMS.
Absolute Security. Annual Bonuses.
Moore and Castlereagh Streets, Resident Secretary, %
Sydney. W. J. BLOOMFIELD, B.A* LL.B.
The Bulletin was recently knocked flat
by a machine called the Burroughs Adding and
Registering Machine, of which the Commercial
Banking Co., of, Sydney use seven. It has a key-
board of figures'as a typewriter has letters; and
these are arranged in numerical order from one
half-penny up to one million pounds. To add
on the machine, you print off the amounts as you
strike off words on the typewriter, then you press
a key and the machine thereupon prints the exact
total. The machine is infallibly correct. Users
after a little practise can manipulate the machine
at the rate of two thousand cheques or dockets an
hour and have the total thrown m, while with the
pen they could not write the amounts let alone
add them. The United Typewriter and Supplies
Co., of Sydney, Melbourne and Perth, is the
concern responsible for introducing the benefits of
this machine to Australia. They state that a
large number'of Banks,- and many of the leading
Drapery establishments in Sydney and Melbourne,
such as David Jones and Co., Ball and Welch,
Craig, Williamson and Thomas have them in use
for listing and adding up the daily dockets.*
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Agents for N.S. Wales: Sayers,
All port and Potter, Sydney. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
, Wines
Australia.
n
Supplied to H.R.H. the Duke of York.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Bill Lyne—the rogue-elephant of Aus-
tralian politics.
Still does the daily press hang on the
sacred utterances of General Hutton. You would
think the Messiah had arrived.
“ McMullock” is a Melb. Herald mis-
print for M'Culloch, Public Works Minister and
rabid Jingo. The sinful comp, strikes the eternal
truth at times.
Rumored that C. A. Lee, leader of N.S.W.
State Opposition, thinks of giving up politics and
entering the church. Solemn Lee must surely be
going to do something.
A lot of the men who are talking of
“founding a great daily newspaper” in Sydney
just now, have never had five shillings to spare to
register themselves as the sorry dogs that they are.
Premier See has accepted a seat on the
Ocean Accident Assurance Board. The number
of directorships which Mr. See holds is marvellous.
He is prabably the champion “guinea-pig” of
Sydney.
Of the Federal Parliamentarians, Conroy
is the most heard, Keating the most seen. Turn
up a photo, group of Federal politicians, and the
smooth and curly Tasmanian will be found right
in the eye of the camera every time.
A Sydney suburban paper :
The deceased gentleman leaves one widow and five
children.
Well, now-a-days, such particularity in the enu-
meration of a man’s relicts is not utterly indefensi-
ble.
Henniker Heaton defends himself in
the London newspapers against Premier Barton’s
charge of “intermeddling.” Henniker doesn’t
say, as he might have (for H.H. is equal to it) that
an old club quarrel made Barton particularly glad
to tread on his corns.
HER AVERAGE WAS HIGHER.
THE MISSUS : “ When the gentlemen were going
away last night I distinctly heard someone
being kissed twice in the hall.”
THE MAID : “It wasn’t me, ma'm. Nobody
kissed me only twice, ma’m!”
John Norton announces in his paper his
“serious illness” in Brisbane—two operations
within a week, and a third pending. Yet, withal,
he publishes in the same issue eight columns of
self-signed articles ! It is a very industrious man
that scribbles thus between “serious” operations.
In making the appointment to the High
Commissionership in London the Federal Govern-
ment should be careful not to add to the drinking
strength of Australian officialdom there. Some
of the State representatives already in England
can do all the drinking that is required.
An Englishman of a noted family, who, in
the days of Gov. Bowen, was a well-known and
much-admired man of fashion in Brisbane, and a
favorite at Govt. House, was the other day sent
from Dunwich poorhouse—of which he had long
been an inmate —to the leper-station half-a-mile
away on the same island.
Arthur Galton, who was private secretary
at Sydney to his kinsman, Gov. Duff, is now
Srivate chaplain to the Anglican Bishop of Ripon.
Ir. Galton was originally ordained an Anglican
clergyman, but left that church for the R.C. faith.
Then he reverted to Anglicanism, of which he is
now a most militant champion.
Despite the Argus and Age branding of
King O’Malley as a mere empty blatherskite who
travels on the size of his hat, it is a fact that the
O’M. never has to talk to empty benches—nor
empty galleries either. Some of the allegedly
strong men of the Federal Parliament would give
much for a similar reputation.
Absolutely the best-dressed, best-groomed,
and most portentously imposing person in the
Federal House is Malkum M'Eacharn. His
frock-coats and fancy waistcoats in the afternoons,
and his lovely evening clobber, are the envy of all
other smartly-dressed members. A gallery scribe
fittingly described him—“ The Immaculate S’Mal-
kum Mack : the one perfect thing in an imperfect
world.”
There should be joy in the law-ranks at
the prospective establishment of the Federal High
Court—five Judges, one at £3500, and four at
£3OOO ; five associates, a marshal and deputy mar-
shals, a registrar and deputy-registrar in all,
about £33,000 a year in salaries, and the proba-
bility of plenty costly litigation.
The widow of Mr. Michael Stokes, one of
the founders of S. M. Herald (he died about 10
years, ago), passed away last week in Sydney,
where she was born in 1809, a year before the still-
surviving Dean Cowper. An older native than
the Dean still lives—William Byrne, of Princess-
street, Sydney, born at Appin in 1808.
Reported in Melbourne that the benighted
Quick is to have a Federal High Court billet.
Since his beknightment Quick has steadily drifted
away from democracy ; in politics he is now not
quick but dead ; and the Federal High Court,
from all appearances, is to be the fashionable
mausoleum for dead political reputations.
Even eminent King’s Counsel at times
forget themselves. In Adelaide Supreme Court,
t’other day, when Symon, K.C., submitted his
“personal belief” to the jury, Nesbit, K.C.,
objected that it was not evidence, and, in a burst
of ingenuousness, added, “My learned friend
believes what he is paid to believe, like every
other lawyer.”
Cable states that De La Rey’s chivalry is
to be “ recognised ” by the British Government.
Probably with a K.C.M.G.-ship—Kindly Con-
sented to Methuen Going. It would be a good
thing, by the way, to arrange with De La Rey to
become Commandant in Australia “ when the
war is over”—Hutton’s term of engagement will
have expired by then.
Mr. J ustice Stephen, from a hint he re-
cently gave, is expected to retire from the N.S.W.
bench in May, when his pension becomes due.
Mr. Justice Owen is due for pension, 18th Oct.,
and will also, it is believed, retire. Mr. Stephen
was 73 in December last, and Mr. Owen is 68.
Acting-Justice Pring will, no doubt, get a per-
manent appointment; others eligible have their
eyes on the Federal High Court.
A member of the Federal
House of Representatives, a
strict teetotaller, is noted
for his absent-mindedness.
When going out in the
morning he occasionally re-
turns to his study, turns
down the wick of an oil-
lamp which is not alight,
blows down the chimney,
and departs in peace.
Returning home at even-
ing, h e frequently
curses his inabdity to
unlock the front
door with his office
keys till the vio-
lence of his lan-
guage brings his
wife to inform
him that the door
is open. Th e
other day he
went down for
a shave, and
got it, after
wh ic h he
3 t rolled
round the
block, no
doubt with
one of Con-
roy’s speeches
on his brain.
Anyhow, he
went into the bar-
ber’s shop again,
took the chair, and
waited till he felt some-
body tickling his chin. “Really,
madam,” he said, “I am not accust -. Why,
it’s you, Johnson ! Good Lord ! I’ve just had a
shave!”
A N.S.W. paper complains with solid
reason:
The officers of the present contingent are a lot of
youngsters, and, according to all accounts, were ap-
pointed through outside influence. The Brigadier called
them together, and openly told them to perfectly under-
stand he had no voice in appointing them, and there-
fore would not be responsible !
Jacob Garrard, J. F. Burns, and Joe Cook
carry life passes over N.S.W. railways for their
‘ ‘ distinguished political services ” to that State.
Brunker and Mary Jane Gould also run free.
Thus, if they gave themselves wholly up to travel-
ling the country with samples of tea or softgoods or
to buy fats for butchers, they would have a consider-
able start over all their business competitors.
The brightest jewel in E. W. O’Sullivan’s
crown is surely the testimonial of attorney
“Honest Tom” Slattery, given at the Thaddeus
picture-testimonial presentation :
Mr. O’Sullivan’s record was an enviable one. As a hus-
band there was none better, as a father a model, as a
friend true as steel, and as a public man he had as clean a
record as any man in the world.
Talk about praise from Sir Rupert!
Baronet Clarke is to have a statue at Mel-
bourne, the site being in the Treasury Gardens,
facing Spring-street. What S’William did to
deserve a statue,.except to own a great deal of
money, even his most enthusiastic admirer
couldn’t tell. Certainly he was the most gentle-
manly-lnokmg of all the Victorian nobility and
didn’t seem to lose his dignity even when he
walked down Collins-street with a brown-paper
parcel in his hand.
About the most uncomfortable time
Treasurer Turner ever spent was when he first
donned Windsor uniform on a very hot night to
go to Melb. Govt. ’Ouse. The perspiring Turner
leaned across the turkey and things and asked
Peacock the Mirthful how he liked Ids togs,
whispering that he had found it necessary to leave
off everything underneath but his singlet. That
was probably the only time that a shirtless
Treasurer dined with the Duke of York. There
was a time when a Premier without any trousers
on moved the adjournment of N.S.W. Assembly
—but that is another story.
A FELLOW-FEELING.
THE ACCUSED: “ You see, me and Jenkins was
’avin' a bit of a time together the night afore,
and next mornin ’ — well, yer Worship knows
as ’ow a man makes a bee-line for the water-
jug.” (Discharged with a caution.)
This was Barton’s epitaph on the late James
P. Garvan :
An entirety of life adorned with consistent principle,
fitted up in the discharge of virtuous duty, with nothing
to conceal; no friendship broken, no confidence betrayed;
no timid surrender to popular clamor, no eager reaches
for popular favor.
Which probably represents Premier Barton’s
ideal of a public man. Unfortunately, some men
stumble over many things in the pursuit of an
ideal.
The grandson of one of Australia’s greatest
Judges, now a larcenist of some standing, and of
considerable gaol experience, was re-captured
recently in Tasmania after escaping from custody.
The old man took a leading place at the bar,
and afterwards took his seat on the Bench. The
son took to drink, and in between his orgies he
took the pledge. He also took the horrors. The
grandson took things that didn’t belong to him.
A curious streak of heredity might possibly be
traced here.
“Bob R.” : Mention of “Dicky” Threl-
fall reminds me of a yarn which is characteristic
of that distinguished scientist, who fairly detested
anything in the way of “ side.” Richard had just
commenced his lecture when in strolled a haughty
student resplendent in white pants and gaudy
“blazer” and a tennis-racket. Dicky stopped
until the apparition had taken its seat, and then
his raucous voice was heard : “Mr. , will you
step down here for a moment.” Dicky’s word was
law. “Now stand there; ladies and gentlemen,
look at it.” To the student: “ Turn round, pleasej
a back view, ladies and gentlemen ! Now, sir,
continued the burly Richard with sudden fury,
indicating the door, “get out! and never you dare
to mistake my lecture-room for a circus again.
When you come here come in the garb of a gentle-
man, not of a clown.”
A Vic. Senator, renowned for the inco-
herence of his utterances, made a vigorous attaok
recently on the enemies of the Empire,
and compared the said Empire to what
sounded like “Herr Colors” triumphing
over his foes. The Hansard reporter,
being unacquainted with any country-
man of Sandow’s possessed of such
strength, consulted the heated legislator
when the House rose, and asked him
which German he had been alluding to.
“ W’at! w’at!” cried the legislator;
‘ ‘ don’t you know how to spell Herr
Colors? I never heard of such ignor-
ance in my life. I don’t know how some
of you fellows keep your billets. Never
heard of Herr Colors ? Why, it’s spelt:
H-i-r-c-u-l-l-e-s —Herr Colors.”
In Cooktown (Q.), where the white
man is said to lose his energy, one publio
servant is “ Police-Magistrate, Warden,
Deputy-Marshal, Deputy-Sheriff, Min-
eral Lands Commissioner, Inspector of
Pacific Islanders and Harbor Master.”
How many more things he might be but for his
exhausted condition it is difficult to imagine.
The Evolution of King Seddon ! As a
working miner—on the early goldfields—Seddon
was a red-hot Socialist. Later on, when, as a
politician, he began to acquire some coin, his
socialistic views had to give way to “liberalism.”
Now, after being Maoriland’s Premier for some
years, he is reputed to be worth £50,000, and he
has blossomed into the blindest Imperialist this
side of the line. In all his long life Seddon never
once offered his carcase to be shot at by Her
Majesty’s enemies in any capacity whatever.
Customs Minister Kingston received a
terrible shock by the death of his only son, to whom
he was devotedly attached. The cause was con-
sumption. The victim—a bright, handsome youth
of 18 —was as tall as his father and was his con-
stant companion when Federal duties allowed
C.C.K. to get to Adelaide. During the later
stages of the illness Kingston spent all his time
either at the bedside or within call and he only
returned to Melbourne when it was thought that
the crisis had passed. The death was very sudden
at the end. Only his intimate friends know how
infinitely tender is Kingston’s nature under his
aggressive demeanor.
There is quite a touching friendship
between Premier Seddon and Governor Ranfurly
in M.L. Every session now Parliament is asked
to vote sums for the Governor which should come
from His Ex.’s own pocket. And on Ranfurly’s
side there are, of course, compensations. When
Ranfurly went away over a year ago to “ annex ”
the Cook Islands, Stout, C.J., became deputy-
Governor, and he made things so warm for King
Dick that Ranfurly will hardly be allowed off the
chain again before his term expires. Stout and
Seddon don’t drink in the same bar nowadays.
This is only a figure of speech, of course, for
Seddon is able to afford a private room these
times, and Stout quenches his honorable thirst at
the pump.
Musical critics Nesbitt and Morrison,
respectively of Melb. Age and Argus, are
notably versatile men. Nesbitt, whose adulatory
criticism gave the Castles her first boom, goes in
for a queer combination of music and mathematics,
besides much writing on astronomical and general
topics. He has just been appointed mathematical
lecturer at Trinity College, and teaches harmony
and counterpoint, as well as advanced hydro-
statics, at various seminaries. Critic Mor-
rison, a barrister, does some law re-
Sorting, and is perhaps unequalled in
lelbourne as a modern linguist. He
will probably succeed the late Prof.
Morris in the University chair of lan-
guages, if the governing pedants do
not fitly decide to abolish the teaching
of modern lingoes, and restrict them-
selves to pawing over the remains of
the dead speech of dead peoples.
Adelaide possesses a lady licehoed-
victualler who is a graduate in arts of
Sydney University. Probably she is
the first 8.A., male or female, of that
particular Alma Mater who has been
called to the whisky-bar.
E. F. Knight, by far the most capable of the
mediocre band of journalists sent to this country
by London dailies with the mannikin Duke,
devotes nearly all the Australian section of his
book (and that the largest) to “the marvellous
loyalty of Australia to the Throne and Empire.
But Mr. Knight moved in a narrow circle of tuft-
hunting politicians and rich vulgarians. _ He
wouldn’t meet any “National” Australians,
partly because one of their characteristics is a
strong antipathy for the “ haw ” sort of English-
man. It comes somewhat as a surprise, after
hearing such stories of the pains taken by English
journalists to secure accuracy, to find many glar-
ing errors of fact in Mr. Knight’s work. Good
Australian press notices are secured for the work
by unlimited slobber of Jingo local journals
Cable to the dailies :
Mr. Gilbert Parker, M.P., in a letter to the Times,
doubts the financial success of colonial remount depots
during, peace, and advocates as an experiment the
colonies and the mother-land co-operating' for naval and
military defence with common financial responsibilities.
Mr. Parker also suggests the establishment of recruiting
stations for Imperial forces serving in the colonies and
upon acting foreign service.
Why on earth Australia should be asked to take
any notice of the opinions of Mr. Gilbert Parker,
M.P., on horse-questions is as unfathomable a
mystery as that the Sydney Morning Herald,
during his associate-editorship of that paper,
should have been gulled into printing as an
original article and as an introduction to the
description of Melbourne Cup meeting for the
then current year, the first chapter of Ouida’s
novel “Chandos.” Mr. Parker, so far as Sydney-
ites are aware, doesn’t know one end of a horse
from the other. He originally turned up in these
parts as the Rev. Horatio Gilbert Parker, elocu-
tionist and lecturer, a nice, lady-like blue-eyed
curate sort of personage, and presently became
attached to the Herald staff. Soon he left Aus-
tralia and later on made a considerable literary
success with certain French-Canadian stories.
Then he was heard of as having married the
daughter of a rich N. Y. Japanese curio-dealer;
now he sits in the legislative halls adorned by
Henniker Heaton, and patronises this beastly
country.
BREATHING SPACE.
DEMON BOWLER (to nervous beginner): “Now
let’s see you play a scorcher.”
NERVOUS BEGINNER: “ W-w-wait a second till I
tell you a I-little joke about Spofforth.”
General Hutton travels about Australia
with almost regal pomp, accompanied by his staff,
in all the panoply of war. If he isn’t the man
who runs the country, he evidently thinks he is.


6EMS
Are Our Study —
Year in and Year out
We buy them in the rough direct from the mines.
We class them.
We export them largely.
We cut some of them ; we import others already cut.
iILL-W^—LLli
We handle them in large quantities at every stage ; we know all about them.
For our retail trade —we mount them, we set them, we make the settings.
London Prices
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX and ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Vi-23 HUNTER STREET
D
m
Vi
nr
BULLETIN SUBSCRIBERS-^
Who are unable to read small printed matter, or to see fine
stitching or writing, whose distant vision is dull and who suffer
from persistent headaches or pains after close application—you
may rest assured that you are suffering from Ageing - or
Impaired Vision, and Need Glasses. You should visit
us, and have your sight scientifically tested, and be supplied
with Glasses adapted to your individual case.
TO COUNTRY READERS who cannot visit us personally, we send, Post Free to any address, with full instruc-
tions and Price List, our marvellously-accurate and popular SELF SIQHT-MEASUdINC PATENT. By its use
you can Test your own sight and determine for yourself the style and quality of the glasses you may need.
Write for it to —
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Consulting Optician,
371 George St., Sydney,
next door to the A. J.S. Bank.
King and George Streets.
And at 232 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, opposite Age Offipe.
Aboriginalities.
To OcNTRiBUTORs.-Zn the case of ethnological and
rmtural-hwtory items, etc., always give date and
place of experience; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific value.
Some strange things happen while people
are praying for ram. At a little church in the
near-Sydney orchard country the rain service was
strolled*?!) th u - n ? oem Jf fashion. A small dog
he til l! 1 ! 6 and committed an outrage on
¥° nge J d to the leading farmer and
churchwarden of the district, the hat being just
alongside the pew but in the aisle. Whereupon
knocked b r - S ? rU^ ed tl i e d took him outside and
knocked his brains out on the fence, and then came
back to pray The organist, a daughter of said
farmer, saw her father’s murderous act through
the window, and fainted. And what with the
clead dog, the insensible girl, the unseemly far-
mer and the outrage to the hat, the congre-
gation departed humiliated, but without rain
T * * * *
In answer to prayer. Time, N.S.W. day
of humiliation ; place, a railway town near Syd-
» occasion, the combined service of the
Church of England, Presbyterian, and Methodist
congregations, asking that the Divine wrath be
turned aside, in order that the earth might be
replenished, and give forth fruits for the use of
inen. Answer : -Rev. Joseph returned to
the parsonage to find that his second wife had in
the interval presented him with twin daughters.
. e Payers for rain. A score of years ago,
m a township near Bathurst a large congregation
h f lt l P^ aye , rs for rain > and scarcely had they
started for home when the drought broke. Some
the worshippers were so delighted that they
inserted an advertisement in the local paper after
this fashion:
To Almighty God.
We, the undersigned, beg to return our thanks to God
day S ° qUICk y aaswenn g our prayers for rain, last Sun-
I. Blank.
B. Dash.
This settled the question as to whose prayers
brought the rain, though all the other beastly
sects had been supplicating also. Blank and Dash
knew that our ” prayers did it.
» * * ,
“Viator” confesses some of his sins to
The Bulletin :
Stone-broke, owing the liquor-dispenser a
week’s board, I flitted from Townsville (N.Q )
making for Ingham (80 miles) per boot. "
Tramped first 15
miles at the
double, and
reached a
dairy at
6 a.m.
Found a
large he-
woman
cleaning
up after
half-a-
hundred ,
cows.
Tackled
her for a
job, hop-
ing to get
a feed,
anyhow. “ I want
a man,” she said.
“The chap I ’ad
’as left. He was
here three years,
and was getting
6s. a week. Would
you like the job ? ”
“Yes,” I replied.
So she brings out a
large plate of
meat and bread
and a pint-pot
•of tea. Finished
—I hand back
plate, shoulder
“Matilda,” and
make for the
road. “Where are
you off to ? ” she sings
out. “ Oh,” said I, “ I’m only going
to take my morning: constitutional. What do you think ?”
At sundown, struck the humpy of a “ pumpkin-squatter,”
and put up a yarn about losing a horse. “ Muse charge
you a shillin’ a time,” was the answer, “ the ticks have
ruined me —lost 500 head in two years ! ” Salt goat,
damper, post-and-rail tea. “ Meal ” finished in perfect
silence. “ You can ‘doss’ there,” pointing to a ragged
stretcher, with a dilapidated blanket. Left about mid-
night, and struck an “idle hut” at daylight. Here I
stayed two days of constant rain, and was then driven
out by moisture, mosquitoes, and starvation. By this time,
the country was ankle-deep and all the creeks bankers.
A 12-mile tramp brought me to two tents, in which were
two wretched travellers, lying rolled up in blankets, wet
through. They had been there two days, foodless. Three
miles further on, struck a station. Put up horse-yarn
again. Had dinner, and stayed the night. Next day,
crossed a river up to my neck, and then waded through
flood-water for five miles up to my waist. Fortunately
struck the road, and, at 10 p.m., came to a church, and
camped in the porch. When I eventually reached Ingham,
42in. of rain had fallen in seven days, and 23in. in 24 hours
at Macknade plantation. What would the Westerners say
to that ? This was in the first week of January last.
* * • •
Advt. from North Coolgardie Herald
(Westralia):
TO MULLINE BEER STRIKERS.
"M’OTIOE is hereby given to all the above Strikers
that general exemption is granted from the 10th
to the 13th March', on account of the visit of the Hon.
Minister for Mines, Harry Gregory.
By order—
JAMES POPE,
Secretary Mulline Beer Strikers.
Thus the cause of Cheap Beer is likely to be Lost.
Some men are strong enough to die for a principle.
Others haven’t sufficient courage to keep dry for a
principle during the visit of the “ Hon. Minister
for Mines.”
»*. * *
“Yar.” : I can remember when M’s.P.
were thought a lot of, and when, if one showed
himself in a country town, there’d be a general
turning out of the inhabitants to gaze upon the
great man. T’other day one drove into pub. yard
here, and attended to his own horse. Traveller
asked who the gentleman was, and the landlord
said it was the auctioneer. “But isn’t he member
for the district?” asked the bagman. “Well,”
carelessly replied Bung, “I believe he is some-
thing of that kind, too.”
A voice from Marble Bar :
TheNor’-Westcan be appropriately termed Hell, especi-
ally Marble Bar. It consists of 45 people—white, black, and
piebald. Heat remarkable ; have often seen it 124 in the
shade. There are two pubs. The publicans, when things
are slack, sit in the middle of the road (150 ft. wide), and
play cards for drinks, loser shouting in opponent’s house.
There are four women in the town, generally at logger-
heads. No school. Children brought up in ignorance
and bliss. No church, but Holy Joe preaches on Sunday
nights under the only tree in the street. This tree is
called the policeman’s tree, because at one time the
coppers used to stand (by compulsion) under same, and
watch the pubs. The lads (some half-dozen or so) muster
around, lounging on the grass—when there is any. Joe
always has a lamp when preaching ; it is suspended to a
branch of said tree. He reads the Gospel by the aid of
this light, and every now and then there is an interrup-
tion while he lends the lantern to the congregation which
wants a light for its bumper. The stories of the hard-
ships endured by the Nor’-West blacks are quite true.
Know a squatter whose manager is a member of the
Aboriginal Board. When things are slack, sends the
blacks (signed-on) whom he does not want, out on what is
termed pinki (or holiday)—that is to say, he stops their
rations and turns them out where there is no food till he
wants them again. Saw a mob of 35 at one time on such
pinki. They were starving, diseased and naked. Was a
policeman at the time, and reported the matter. Never
heard any more about it. Presumably, report thrown in
w.p.b. Great habit among the white teamsters (there are
black teamsters) is to commandeer a young gin, whose
hair they invariably crop. Then they rig her out in male
attire, as a blind. She acts as musterer, cook, and other
things. I sometimes suspect that most of the black boys
here are girls. They get no wages, but plenty of work.
* * * *
“ Atriplex ” : Re curious things found in
the stomachs of cattle (B. 20/7/’01). Some years
ago, at Hawkesbury Agricultural College, a herd
of about 40 young heifers were pastured in a
swampy paddock, in which the local volunteer
rifle-butts are situated. A number of them un-
accountably died, and post-mortems disclosed
fragments of bullets in every carcase opened—one
stomach producing no less than 3£lbs. of lead.
Present writer once took an ordinary salmon-tin
from a cow’s throat, wherein it had become
embedded, a growth having formed around it.
Cattle will eat anything if they can’t get plenty of
salt.
A FINANCIAL DIFFICULTY.
OLD BUSHY : “ Say, boss, you’ll want a man in
my place when ice strike the Border .”
DRPVER: “ What’s up? Health cronk, old
fellow?”
O.B. : “ Well, no; but it’s just this way — I’ll be
65 next month, and if I cross they’ll wipe
me off the Old Age Pension list.”
“ Riverina ” : I have an idea which I con-
sider brilliant and original. It is to form a
settlement, consisting of three buildings—and, of
course, the inevitable pub.—somewhere in the
back-country. The money necessary can be
taken from the sums recklessly thrown about in
the “ Aboriginalities ” page—mostly consisting of
unaccepted challenges. The first of these build-
ings shall be a large hall, wherein Mr. M'Cooey
will lecture on natural history—admittance, one
lizard. M'Cooey shall be expected to make, in
the course of half-an-hour’s lecturing, at least six
insulting statements regarding other scientific
Aboriginaliars. Round the corner shall be the
second building. This Mr. Grant Hervey shall
occupy with his following. He shall be employed
in contradicting Mr. M‘Cooey, andsneeringlyallud-
ing to his Latin. At other times he will sally out
and slaughter Mac’s lizards (including the “pet” if
possible) and give Darling pea to M'Cooey’s crow-
ing beetles, crimson-crested serpents, iguanas,
whizzlegophers, &e. The rest of the aboriginaliars
shall lecture in the third hall, the biggest liar get-
ting possession oftenest; and they shall all contra-
dict M‘Gooey, and Grant Hervey, and each other,
and tell eel-stories. At the adjacent pub. liquor
will be sold which will enable the students to see
all the animals that M‘Gooey says lie saw and
that the other people say he didn’t see. Thus the
Australian Aboriginal University will be estab-
lished and will boom greatly, and the bodies of
the students who succumb to intense study will
be buried aboriginally with great corroboree, and
their kidney-fat hung on the tree overshadowing
the fountain where the ’roo laps in peace, and in
that tree the bell-bird can be a minah if he wants
to, and if he doesn’t want to he needn’t.
“ Myall ” : The minah (spoken of with un-
deserved kindness in Bulletin) is often fervently
cursed by kangaroo and wallaby shooters for its
assiduous attention to the safety of
bush animals. It acts as an unpaid
and uncalled-for sentinel, and got
pipes an unmistakable note of warn-
ing on the approach of danger.
Have often, after much trouble,
within range of a’roo, only to have
my chance of a shot spoiled by the
screech of a minah, which is a
bird that doesn’t attend to its
own business, and isinterferin
enough to be on the commit-
tee of a benevolent society.
“ Jack Cook, the hoy evangelist who made
such a stir in America and England, intends to
visit Australia.”— NEWS ITEM.
It’s a good thing that all the doddering
old octogenarians and centenarians of Australia are
not quite so “ willing ” as that violent specimen at
Colac (Victoria). Although over 85, he cheerfully
took on the job of shifting a lady and gentleman
out of an orchard the other day. The lady was on
the ground giving directions ; the gentleman was
up the tree. Old 85 ambled over to them and
dealt freely with the lady first ; then, when the
gentleman rushed down out of the tree to her
assistance, the old fellow biffed him one in the
eye that will leave it black for many a day. It’s
an interesting country where a man doesn’t know
the day lie’ll be assaulted by a great-grandfather.
„ * » *
Essay on the rabbit, by a N.S.W. country
hoolbov '
„ ~ ’ , . . . . .
Rabbits are very good at running. They are fond of
eating vedgetables. They make burrows very deep with
their claw’s, they have long ear’s, they can hear the guns
going off. They are very good eating, for currys and all
other things. As soon as they hear the guns going off,
they rush as hard as they can. The rabbits stommock is
very funnier than the other animals. Evry rabbit has the
same kind of stommock The rabbit has thinner legs
than all others. Animals have thicker legs than the
rabbit.
* * • *
“ Scar ” : Once, near Lake Eyre (S. A.), I
met a blackfellow who, after telling me that he
had lately been working on the Cooper’s Creek
mission station (Moravian), asked for tobacco. I
had none, and told liim so. He was incredulous
and persisted, and at length, with uplifted arm
and finger pointing to the zenith, he sternly
asked: “Don’t you know ’im God? That fellah
God killum you blanky quick s’pose you tellum
lj e y>
“ JEM?.” : I once set my dogs on
to a stag on the banks of the Motueka
River (M.L.), when the bird, instead of
rising, dived into the water. It soon
after rose and disgorged a trout, which
I secured, and found that it weighed
4yb. Looks as if the shag had to get rid
of this burden before it could fly.
“ Trotter : In some parts of the
land of the hot, brown wild cat, they
chain prisoners up to a post, not posses-
sing a lock-up. Recently, in Coolgarra
(N.Q.), I saw a man so detained. When
it came on to rain heavily the kindly
policeman shoved him under a house,
and chained him there till it cleared up.
Even in this sorrowful land, the finer
feelings of humanity are not extinct.
* V * •*
“ Uloola ” : Re native bees
(“ W.5.T.,” 8., 10/8/’01.) Can’t see the
appropriateness of that nest in Sydney
Botanic Gardens being in the trunk of a
stinging-tree, since the native bee doesn’t
sting —only nips. As “ W.S.T.” says,
the native bee is about the size of the
small house-fly, and totally unlike the
English or Italian varieties. The “nest”
is made in a knot of a hollow limb, and
the quickest way to locate one, when you
come across a likely tree, is to get the
tree between yourself and the sun;
otherwise, you might pass one a dozen
times without discovering it. The comb,
which is irregularly built, is of a dark
color, but the honey is as clear as
schnapps, and very rich.
Wellington Evening Post :
A remarkable sight is to be seen right alongside the
roadway which leads around Waikaremoana. This is a
rata tree, a branch of which has picked up, and is sup-
porting a huge rock weighing about 20 tons.
A tree that steals rocks is at least a novelty.
* * * *
“D.H.R.”: Re heavy pulls for horses.
A draught horse, owned by a Walgett
firm, some few days ago pulled a boiler,
weighing a little over five tons, up a slight
incline at a wool-scour four miles from town.
About 30 men witnessed the feat. [And wasn’t
one of the thirty humane enough to shove behind ?
-Ed. B.]
Re the precocious Australian kid. One of
him, aged nine years, was up before a country
court t’other day charged with causing a bush fire.
In evidence it transpired that accused, desiring a
smoke, and having but one match, and, deciding
to take no chances of it failing him, set fire to
a handful of grass, from which he lit his
pipe ! Result, £2 or seven days. Aged nine,
and unable to do without his pipe in a parched
and withered paddock !
* * » *
“Australis”: Re leeches (“Wer,” B.
20/7/’01). In the Neerim-Noojee districts of
Gippsland leeches swarm. The country is
not swampy, but inclined to be mountainous.
The leeches frequent the dark, wet gullies,
where the wire-grass and scrub are thick,
and if you stand here for a couple of
minutes you will see them coming for
you in dozens. In the winter milking
cows prefer scrub country to pasture,
and as a result they get covered with
leeches. Have taken four out of one
cow’s teat, and 80 per cent, of the ,cows
in above-mentioned districts a few years
ago were blind from this cause in at least
two of their teats. A leech of this kind
usually has a good “fill” of your blood
before you find it out. Was one day work-
ing in the scrub, and felt a tickling in my ear.
It was a leech, which my father had much
trouble in extracting.
* » * *
“V.M.”: Some bush youngsters are
cruelly worked. I know one little chap of 11, on
a Richmond River farm, who has to get up at 4,
round-in the cows in the dark, milk 15 himself,
harness up a horse and cart, and drive the milk to
the factory to be “ separated.” Then lie goes to
school till 3 ; when he runs home, saddles a horse,
rounds-in the cows again, milks his 15 and gives
them some green stuff. After tea he husks corn,
in the season, for an hour or two, and then drags
his tired little carcase to bed. When calves are
being reared, he has to poddy-feed his share daily,
and I’ve seen him holding the plough, while his
sister (aged 12) drove the bullocks. Asked the
local teacher how the youngsters could learn
under these conditions. “They don’t,” he said.
“It takes me all my time to keep the poor little
beggars awake. ”
“D.T.”: Re shoeing of bullocks (8.,
29/6/’01). A timber-getter on the Brunswick
River regularly shod his team. I used to make
the shoes for him. They were made in two halves,
without clip, and were put on with six No. 5
nails. I used regularly to shoe some Welsh
drover-bullocks in the old country in the same
way.
MISS MARIE NARELLE.
Photo, by Talma & Co., Sydney.
“Vril”: Re Chinese Josses. In the
middle ’9o’s there was one at Stanthorpe (Q.),
which informed a Chow acquaintance of mine
that his “Tatt.” tickets on Melb. Cup were no
good, and advised him to hurry up and get more.
This Ah Sin did, trading the first lot off to* a
Christian Chow. The second lot drew £2OOO, and
the first lot nil. This Joss, however, grew lazy
from surfeit of offerings ; so, after he had allowed
their gardens to do a bad perish, his disciples laid
hands upon him and burnt him with ignominy.
Then they set up another —duly advising him of
his predecessor’s fate, and asking for immediate
moisture. The new Joss rose to the occasion with
a well-distributed four-inch downpour.
THE BEERS WE USED TO DRINK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Where are the Beers of long ago ?
I often deep and darkly ponder ;
Where are the Beers that used to flow ?
Where are they now ? I guess and wonder.
Lie they at rest in tombs afar
Along with thoughts we used to think ?
Say, Bacchus—tell us where they are,
Those long, cool Beers we used to drink ?
Do they, re-drawn all far away,
Scent fairy-fashioned Hebes’ bowers 1
Or fail to cheer the dead men gray
With brown and softly-falling showers ?
Perhaps behind some spectral bar
They’re quaffed with winks we used to wink,
And wealthy goblins globular
Drink ghosts of Beers we used to drink !
GRANT HERVEY.


A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It dri\es away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
The HANSARD Fountain Pen
(Authorised by Hansard Staff),
l4ct. GOLD NIB.
Fine, Medium, or Broad Points. One Quality—The Best; One Price—The Lowest, 7/6 (Post Paid).
Barrel of every Pen branded “ The Hansard.” ACCEPT NO SUBSTITUTE. All Stationers ;or sent to any
address on receipt of price. HANSARD PEN CO., Box 98, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
K'
m
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Age ats for New South Wa’cs—
ELLIOTT 8R05.,. LIMITED, SYDNEY.
dsg
“ Entomologist ” writes :
“Fraulein” (8/3/’O2) writes: “Have never seen any-
thing printed in reference to the kangaroo fly.” The
kangaroo or wallaby-fly (Olfersia Macleayi) is one of a
remarkable group of properly two-winged flies, which,
having degenerated in life-habit, have in many oases
become wingless—£.#•» the sheep-tick. These insects are
popularly known as “ spider ” or “lice-flies.” They sel-
dom fly unless their host is killed, but run about among
the hair or feathers so rapidly that they are very difficult
to catch. The forest fly (Hippobosca equina) is common
in Europe. It infests the horses in the New Forest in
England. The wild ponies do not seem to mind it,
though a horse brought into an infected district becomes
frantic when these'flies settle upon him, probably on
account of the pinching of the sharp, forceps-like claws,
with which they are furnished to enable them to cling to
the skin. In 1895 Mr. Copeland (now N.S.W. Agent-
General), after a visit to New Caledonia, furnished the
MISS UNTIE RUSSELL (of Melbourne). A
charming amateur actress and dancer.
Photo, by Falk.
papers with an alarming account of a “ flying tick,” of
which he gave a very fair description, but, instead of
figuring it a quarter of an inch across the outspread
wings, one of the Sydney papers printed a sketch of a fly
over two inches across the wings as being “ half natural
size.” The quagga, the camel, the dog, the red deer, and
many birds, as well as our native fauna, have distinct
species of lice-flies parasitic upon them. A paper upon
“ Spider or Lice-Flies ”is printed in the N.S.W. Agricul-
tural Gazette, Dec., 1900.
* * * »
“ J.D.C.,” to “ Fraulein ” (B. 8/3/’2) : I
think the fly referred to only appears when the
’roo or wallaby is dead. If the animal is killed on
the spot, and one gets to the body quickly, there
are no flies to be found, but in a minute or so one
or two arrive—reddish, transparent-looking in-
sects, slightly smaller than the house-fly. They
immediately make for the dead animal’s shoulder,
disappear in the fur for a few seconds, then
emerge and fly away. If there are other ’roo flies
in the neighborhood they do not show up, though
I have watched the carcase for a quarter of an
hour.
Miss Marie Narelle, whose portrait
appears in this issue, is to be tendered a com-
plimentary concert at Sydney Town Hall on
, .Easter Monday night. The gifted soprano, whose
services have ever been freely at the call of
charity, intends leaving for Europe shortly for
further work in her art, and her numerous Sydney
friends and admirers will all wish her the success
and progress that she deserves.
A Sergeant-Major of Scouts writes fron»
S’Africa (20/l/’O2) :
Dear Bulletin. —The war is still dragging miserably
on. There are men leading regiments—nay, columns —
that are no more fit to be soldiers than Tichborne was to
be a jockey. Times out of number the columns go to
sleep at night without a picquet or post out —in fact,
totally unguarded. I said mi one occasion : “Captain,
I can find you men for a picquet for this kopje if you
can’t supply it from your own squadron.” He replied :
“ Oh, never mind ;we don’t want it. There’s no Boers
about here.” I told him I, or the men, didn’t mind a fair
fight, but to be caught asleep was quite a different thing.
He answered : “ Oh, it’s the Major’s way ; let them come.”
In a big chase the other day, 20 miles full gallop without
drawing rein, my horse, amongst others, was shot under
me, four dropped dead, and 32 were made useless for a
considerable time. This caused about 50 men to be dis-
mounted. Yet the officers pile up the waggons with
chairs, tables, sofas, etc., for their own convenience, and
make the men walk. I myself have just done, with
others, a 45-mile journey on foot, because the waggons
were loaded too heavy to get a lift, and a lot of the load
was furniture.
As to looting, everything is smashed to atoms that is
likely to contain money, and I have seen the books of a
public library tossed through the window into the street
to make a breakwind for a picquet. Eight pianos were in
the middle of another street ; big mirrors were smashed
up to get a piece to shave with. Clocks, wearing-apparel,
music, beds, bedsteads, ornaments, all in conglomerate
masses on the floor, verandahs, or the streets.
“F.R.” : As to
“ Wongim’s” inquiry
(B. 8/3/’O2), for the
origin of the term
marum (not “ mar-
ram ”) grass. The
grass was “discover-
ed,” so far as Aus-
tralia was concerned,
by the late Baron
Von Mueller, who
did so much practical
work in his lifetime,
and he is responsible
for the name, which
is derived from the
Latin mare - “ the
sea.” It is a wonder-
ful grass for resisting
the encroachments of
the sea, and at Port
Fairy and Warrnam-
bool, on the West
Vic. coast, hundreds
of acres of land have
been reclaimed by its
use. It is planted in
the sand, where it
flourishes amazingly,
and spreads in the
teeth of wind and
brine. In a few
years a line of shift-
ing sand hummocks
is a mass of verdure.
Every year the Vic.
Govt, allows several
hundreds of pounds
for the planting of
the grass along the
various foreshores,
and it is money well spent. The fame of the
grass is spreading steadily, and every year con-
signments of it are sent abroad, to Maoriland,
Westralia, and elsewhere.
Bit of war-verse by Australia’s “ Banjo ”
Paterson in Reynolds’ Newspaper:—
Now listen to me and I’ll tell you my views concerning
the African War,
And the man who upholds any different views, the same
is a rotten Pro-Boer 1
(Though I’m getting a little bit doubtful myself, as it
drags on week after week :
But it’s better not ask any questions at all —let us silence
all doubts with a shriek 1)
And first let us shriek the unstinted abuse that the Tory
Press prefer—
De Wet is a madman, and Steyn is a liar, and Kruger a
pitiful cur 1
(Though I think if Oom Paul—as old as he is—were to
walk down the Strand with his gun,
A lot of these heroes would hide in the sewers or take to
their heels and run 1
For Paul he has fought like a man in his day, but now
that he’s feeble and weak
And tired, and lonely, and old and grey, of course it’s
quite safe to shriek !).
And next let us join in the bloodthirsty shriek, Hooray
for Lord Kitchener’s “bag” 1
For the fireman’s torch and the hangman’s cord—they
are hung on the English Flag 1
In the front of our brave old army 1 Whoop 1 the farm-
•house blazes bright.
And their women weep and their children die—how dare
they presume to fight 1
For none of them dress in a uniform, the same as by
rights they ought.
They’re fighting in rags and in naked feet, like Wallace’s
Scotchmen fought 1
(And they clothe themselves from our captured troops—
and they’re catching them every week ;
And they don’t hang them —and the shame is ours, but
we cover the shame with a shriek 1)
And, lastly, we’ll shriek the political shriek as we sit in
the dark and doubt;
Where the Birmingham Judas led us in, and there’s no
one to lead us out.
And Rosebery—whom we depended upon I Would only
the Oracle speak 1
“ You go to the Grocers,” says he, “ for your laws 1 ” By
heavens 1 it’s time to shriek 1
THE WHALLABEE AT BAY.
“When brought to bay by the kangaroo dogs, the
whallabee, an Australian animal found in New South
Wales, puts its back against a tree so that it cannot be
attacked from behind, and waits the onset of its pur-
suers.”—Christian World (Eng.).
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
DIFFICULTIES OF TROPICAL AGRICULTURE.
HEFFERNAN (on being told that his ploughing is crooked): “Sure it was straight enough till
the sum kem out and warped it
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
E.F.M. : Some humor, but not enough humor.
... .G.H. : Your picturesque eroticism will never gets its
full expression until you start a new religion. Can’t you
become a prophet ?... .A.J.W. : The philosopher whose
system is based on the Beauty of Repose is too common
to be worth mentioning....W.B. : “Aunt Nell” is a
nice old lady, but too sweet and gentle for this world.
Please kill her off and forward certificate of death....
W.H.I. : Four things are wearying to the flesh and
corroding to the soul—the young man who leaves his
billet to go gold-seeking and comes back shoeless, and
the one who comes hack with two tons of gold, and the
one who comes back dead, and the one who is too dead
to come back. Re “ Hunting the Bunyip,” have
decided to leave that unoffending animal in peace
E.S.L. : Hardly enough point... .Buhner : “Is the grey-
hound, as alleged, the speediest of all animals?” No. No
greyhound can run up to the Indian black-buck, as can
the cheetah—unquestionably the fleetest of animals over
about a quarter-mile. But then he’s done... .Scarcon :
“ Wherein my head shall I conceal ?” Let us suggest the
time-honored' bag Nippon : What do we think of your
poetry ? Haven’t seen any of it; what you’ve sent is
chopped-up prose. No man of sense ever calls his own
verse “poetry.” J.H.N. : Very much poetry like that
sent by you for “ our valuable paper ” would get us
lynched :
Wenaha : You mustn’t conclude that because the woman
in question injured herself in jumping down the steps to
(as she says) escape from her alleged assailants her story
is necessarily true. Look, for instance, at the case of the
woman who charged Isidor Buttner at Sydney with out-
raging her. She risked her life, or made-believe that she
did so, by getting out of her room on to a precipitous
window-ledge. A Grown doctor deposed that examina-
tion showed her to have led a virtuous life. Buttner was
convicted, but on the very day that had been fixed for his
execution he walked into The Bulletin office to thank
this paper for its efforts to save his neck—the woman
(whose story we disbelieved from the first) having been
shown to be a well-known Brisbane prostitute. In fact,,
she confessed that her sto:y was all a lie.. ..E. : A woman
who comes and waves her charming drapery around a.
newspaper office at once discounts the value of her
“ copy.” The postman is the best bearer of feminine— and
all other—: creeds.. .Condob. : Why shouldn't the ccuntry
doctor be allowed to charge fees for paying-patients in
the hospital? He has got a hard-enough row to hoe with-
out having to attend well-to-do people in hospitals free...
F. Marchant : You are dreadfully long-winded and con-
fused a;.d illogical. O.J. Madden’s remarks were, as>
usual, clumsily put ; but he was quite right in what he
was trying to say— viz., that the, age-01-consent law is-
intended to y otect confiding innocence—iiot to pc: alise
the yielders to direct solicitation by an apparently fully-
grown young woman. And your “ champagne ” compari-
son fails in that these young men were, so to speak,
invited to have a swig 0.0.0. : An acute attack of
doggerel E.M.L. : Bulletin never said the Jews
“ couldn’t fight.” Even as mere pugilists the Hebrew
has shone from far before the days of Daniel Mendoza
down to those of Otto Simpson, who called himself Cribb.
But the average Jew isn’t such a fool as to fight per-
sonally. He appoints Gentile deputies to do it- sets the
cat to handle the hot chestnuts for him. The Jew
succeeds in anything he devotes his hand or his head to.
....D.R.O. : Too flimsy for print... .Trident : Rejected
with much cheerfulness. Bulletin has no use for smug
pietetics.. ..Mary D. : Has a feeble kind of prettiness
about it... .P.P.F. : You “ don’t want to send it until we
say.” Dead-lock —because we certainly can’t say until
you do send it Xenos : Too heterogeneous and
involved and inconsecutive, and a lot of other things
A.R.: One good phrase, “ All is shallow water with us
now.”....EJj. : Not direct enough Viking: Senti-
ment excellent, but metre faulty.... Bob R. : Parson
story about as humorless as the average parson.... The
Owl: Three lines rescued from oblivion :
Now, this is tlie lawof the Sydney cit.,
And on every post ’tis plainly writ:
“ Blokes on the pavement must not spit.”
... .J.O. : Precipitous metre China: Shouldn’t advise
you to go there. Know nothing about ruling rates of
wage W.H.E. : Good par. material, but you waste
words E.F.N. :“ Voice ” may have a chance. Never
write on both sides of the paper, as in the other sketch.
. ...O. P. Love: Neither is any g00d... .Chookoo :An
ugly story, brutally toId....XXX: ’‘Hunted Down”
didn’t quite get through Florestaa: More sound
than sense. There is at least one verse that you probably
couldn’t explain yourself R.T. : Just add a T
Will print “ Bangford.”... .W.J. : “Bandy” and “How
they Met” declined... .W.N. : Hardly enough in it for
print Washington H. : Mere rhymed twaddle,
' Shozan : Neither pointnoredge W. 8.8. : Barbed-wire
kind of verse.... D Mac: No damsel ever sees “just 17
summers” in The Bulletin, and nobody ever “ hisses
forth ” anything there either. Try to get rid of such
worn-out conventionalties.. ..Originality : The effort to
make that class of English newspapers honest is almost
hopeless. “ Imperialism” is the fashion of the day, and
it extends to the dishonest “ acquisition ” of our reading
matter by the Robber-Shots rags... .11. J.J. (W.A.): We
are not too familiar with the lag-spirit laws of your
State, but under the agreement the police seem to
have you fixed all right Hal B. : An unreal bit of
Uncle-Tom-Cabinism T.D. : It’s a commonplace bit of
knowledge that the hair grows after death Monar-
biner: “Should Women Propose?” No. Man is
a hunting animal, and likes to kill and cut-up his own
mutton-chops E.H.L. (O.) : Unavailable.. . .Ethel C. :
Will print soon, to please ycu, but it really isn’t an urgent
matter S.C. (Q.): “The Patriots” isamere bitof unim-
portant wing-flapping Thos. McG. : Why not write
legibly? A. 8.: Impossible verse Index : Terse and
rugged at the expense of perspicuity ; also too much
straining after effect Lancelot: Too stiff and formal ;
shake out a couple of reefs in your style Stingo: It
may be “reason,” but it’s not rhyme! Jimmy W. :
■“Welkin” never “rings” in Bulletin; neither do the
years “roll by.” Cassandra: If it’s really your first
attempt, it has much promise Lottie : Too feeble and
twittery for the subject Riverina : Pretty well versed,
but the apropos is badly forced B.R. : Hopelessly ill-
written Jareef: Gentle poetic amble. Subject re-
quires a rousing gallop E G.O. :In other words —you
think that we think that you think that—might go on for
ever that way 1 Creek : Not water enough in you
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
O.H.T. : Nothing in it O. Wood. (Q.): Only one has
any possible chance.. ..Rita S.: Have a half-formed idea
of publishing “Poddy Calves” 0.H.1. : Not new
D.R.O. : Please send address G.O.E. : Do send some-
thing which couldn’t possibly have appeared in Grabbed
Bits. Something topical, Australian O. Radford:
Whaffor!.. .0.H.1. : Rubbish! Vashti: Would earn
us . six months E.McK. : Inexpressibly crude. The
Australian who can draw a ballet-girl nearly always
makes tracks for England at once. You won’t be going
'Ome on that account for years ito come....J. Bresnan :
Coals to Newcastle—an old Bulletin legend.... Arthur
M. (Tas.): No new light on a hackneyed theme... .Gyp. :
Nothing in it Humorous: A humorous scene, no
doubt, but your suggestion wouldn’t help the artist....
Strcn: One for possible use as a suggestion J.S.A. :
The worst of such subjects is that they might just as
easily have been suggested in Asia in the 20th century
B.C. as in Australasia this 20th century A.C. A hack-
neyed or commonplace subject may be redeemed by an
absolutely brilliant drawing ; but it’s quite useless sending
us the grey-har ; d chestnut and expecting us to go in
search of the brilliant drawing ourselves.
(BOWLER MARSH)
There’s Bowler Marsh the darkey
Who’s a native of the soil
I thought against the English team
They would give him a trial
But his cobbers up at Bathurst
Were little put about
When Mac Claren rose objection
They quickly passed him out
In fact it had been whispered
That to England he would get
But through the Bathurst verdict
They could not pick him yet
The team is picked for England
But Marsh is not to go
To prove his skill at cricket
They wont give him a show
But if they want a bowler
The best of judges owns
That Marsh should be selected
Instead of Howell or Jones
He might have got to England
But for the Bathurst burrs
For yielding to Mac Claren
They are white livered curs
He’s got to stay at home lad
Though we think it rather harsh
That England should play Ranji
And not let us play Marsh


THE SOLE SURVIVORS.— A FORECAST.
PREMIER SEDDON : “Hi! Toby! I’ve just got a wireless message from Joe Chamberlain asking for more troops, and I haven’t a man left to send!”
PREMIER BARTON: “No more have I. We’ll have to go ourselves, I s’pose ?”
S EDDON: “No, tell you what —You go, and I’ll stop behind to cable ’Ome assurances of continued attachment to the Throne and Person.”
FA CRFEF (U) € EMM
I ,* I /


SPEECH BY DR. CAIUL^*
Dunng the interval, the Archbishop of Mel-
bourne made one of his happy little speeches ;
drawing an analogy between the career of St.
Patrick and that of Lord Hopetoun. His Grace
pointed out that just as the patron saint whose
festival we were observing that day had been
caught young and taken as a prisoner to Ire-
land, where he remained six years, so Lord
Hopetoun had been “caught young” and held
in bondage here in Victoria for a similar term ;
while just as to St. Patrick, when at length he
got away from Ireland, it had been said.
"Come back and walk amongst us,” so. too, the
same had been urged upon his Lordship. And
that, finally, just as St. Patrick had in the full-
ness of time returned to his Irish home, and
found the clans riven with internecine feuds and
jealousies, which he succeeded in assuaging and
composing, so, too. Lord Hopetoun had come
back to a congeries of semi-independent colonies
with divided sympathies and few common in-
terests. and had welded them into a cluster of
States, proud in their possession of common in-
terests and sympathies, and with a common
fervor for the great Empire to which they all
belonged.
S&ii/T ttopeiomr„
jX joi-d "t opto«n
does tf' >5 Vel l
<v<£f did f ol '
I»M i« v/iH
Well oj dtfe v/ljolft j^ffl
q - ll • /w
,
«*ssr--**
Itf/ ho itr** 1 -
*5 £ £tT°
S * e ae & h :
/0
IforocK •
"Well,
IWs
elje
—H
■ ■ : ■■:■■■ "i -■'.'
' %- r
BBk
Hk
■ SR-J^ JV tK !i
iti 7- \
THE SECEDING OF SALVATIONISTS:
“THE- ELIJAH MATTER.”
In a recent number of the London War Crt
appears a letter which Mr. W. Bramwell Booth,
“chief of the staff” of the Salvation Army, has
addressed “to the officers, soldiers, and friends
of the Salvation Army in Holland.” on Che sub-
ject of the defection of Mr. and Mrs. Booth-
Clibborn, son-in-law and daughter of •• General ”
Booth, who have joined Mr. Dawie’s sect of
“ Zionites.”
ds
WITNESS PUNISHED.
Judge Gaunt then directed the
Charles Paget, to be brought before him.
Paget came forward.
His Honor • In giving evidence in this
case you were guilty of wilful contempt of
court, and of wilful prevarication. Do you
know what prevarioation is ?
Paget shook his head.
His Honor : It will be fully explained to
you in gaol. You will be imprisoned in the
gaol at Melbourne for twenty-one days
A Bench warrant having been made out,
Paget, who seemed stunned at the sudden-
ness and seventy of his sentence, was re-
moved by a constable.
MELBOURNIANA.


A. SAUNDERS’
WATCHES, CLOCKS. JEWELLERY, &SILVERPLATE AT FREETRADE PRICES
SAVE 25 TO 50 PER CENT. SHOWROOMS: 815 GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
A. SAUNDERS.
4 O'CLOCK CAKE EORKS, Pure Silver-plate
on Hard White Metal, in Silk-lined Case, 20s.
Similar style, 12s 6d.
These will last your lifetime.
m
ZN
£
A. SAUNDERS.
DINNER CRUET, 6 Bottles, with Shield, Pure
Silver-plate on White Hard Metal.
A Useful and Serviceable Article, £2 10s.
Other styles, £2, £3, £4.
A. SAUNDERS’ LATEST STYLE.
FRUIT or CAKE STAND,
Silver-plated Stand with Fancy Glass, 30a.
Similar Stand, 27s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
FLOWER STAND, Silver-
plated Base, 8s 6d per pair.
Larger styles, 12s 6d, 15s 6d, 21s.
Choice Table Appointments.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Swan PIN,
7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
05.—CANDLESTICK, Pure
Silver-plated, 8s 6d each.
Similar Design®. 12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
SOAP BOX, Silver-plated, Nicely
Chased and Embossed. 12s (id.
FREE TRADE PRICES,
gds
SPECTACLE
CHATELAINE
CASE,
Solid Silver, 30s, £2.
Silver-plated, 12s 6d.
Send for list.
Other lines,
2s 6d, 4s 6d, 6s 6d,
10s 6d.
g
A. SAUNDERS.
* ENTREE DISH, makes two Dishes, pure Silver-
plated on White Nickel Silver, 40s.
Other styles, £2 10s to £6.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM or BUTTER KNIVES,
Silver-plated, Nicely Chased,
2s, 2s ed, 3s, 3s 6d, 4s 6d.
is
mmre
Cent’s TICKET or WALLET
CASE,
7s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
EGG CRUET, very neat, effective, 4 Cups
and Spoons, Pure Silver-plated on White
Nickel Silver, 20s. Other styles and
patterns, 255, 30s, 355, £2, £2 10s.
HOT WATER KETTLE and STAND,
''an be used as a Teapot. Pure Silver-
-1 plated on White Metal, Beautifully
Chased and Ornamented, £2.
Embossed and Extra Chased, £2 10s.
Other Styles, £3, £3 10s.
Handsome and Useful Article.
A. SAUNDERS.
“ LADIES’ FRIEND,” Pure Solid Silver-
mounted, 18s 6d ; Smaller, 15s 6d.
A Nice Present.
ate
A. SAUNDERS.
LUNCHING CRUET, 4 Bottles,
Silver-plated, 15s 6d. Very Pretty.
A. SAUNDERS.,
Cut Glass Sterling Silver-
mounted
HAIRPIN HOLDER, ss.
iniiiiiiiiiMniiSK
A. SAUNDERS.
TWELVE 4 O’CLOCK TEA SPOONS and TONGS, in Silk-lined
Case. Very Best Pure Silver-plated, 355. Similar, 30s, £2, £2 10s.
Six in Case and Tongs, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
CAKE KNIVES or FORKS, 20s, 255, 30s, £2. Latest London Rage.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Solid Silver HAIR BRUSH, in Silk-lined Case, as above, 30s.
Similar Styles, without case, 15s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
4 O’CLOCK TEA SET, with Covers, Gilt inside, pure Silver-plated.
20 Years’ Guarantee, £2 10s : worth £4 4s.
Other styles, £2, £3, £4.
T A KINDLY CALL AND
SEE OUR DISPLAY.
\
A. SAUNDERS.
CARD RECEIVER, Latest Style.
Pure Silver-plated and Ornamented, 20s. VERY CHOICE.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD BOARD and KNIFE, Pure Silver-plated on Hard
Nickel Silver, Beautifully Chased and Ornamented, 355.
Can be used as CAKE DISH or SALYER.
Similar styles, 21s, 255, 30s, £2, £2 10s. A Useful Present.
SUGAR SCUTTLE. Squa.e,
Handsomely chased and finished,
pure Silver-plated, 21s.
A Nice Present.
Other styles, 255, :Us.
1
A. SAUNDERS.
EIEDD and OPERA GLASSES,
First-class Lenses, Good Effect,
12s 6d, l&s, 20s, 255, 30s, £2,
£2 10s, £3, to £l2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Sterling Silver CIGARETTE
CASE, SOVEREIGN PURSE, and
MATCH BOX combined, Handsomely
Chased, in Silk-lined Case, £2 10s.
Other styles,, 30s, 355, 40s.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER DISH, White Glass, Pure
Silver-plated, 15s 6d: larger size, JGI.
Other Designs, 255, 30s, £2.
is
Cl
A. SAUNDERS.
Sterling Silver-mounted Paris Panel PHOTO. FRAMES,
355, 40s, 50s each.
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class 4-Bottle CRUET,
Silver-plated, 355. Similar, 255, 80s.
5
<37
m
A. SAUNDERS.
TOAST RACK, Bure Silver-plated,
in Every Stvle and Shape,
12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s. A Nice Present.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER KNIFE and JAM SPOON,
in Silk-lined Case, the Very Best Silver-plate,
Nicely Chased, 10s, 12s 6i, 15s, 20s.
Send for Ulustratfd Price Last.
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class Silver-plated CRUET,
as above, 21s.
A. SAUNDEBS.
CAKE BASKET. Pure Silver-plated, Hand-chased
and Embossed, as above, £4.
Similar patterns, 20s, 255, 30s, £2.
A. SATXNDEKS.
TEAPOTS, very pretty and useful, Pure Silver-
plated, Hand Chased and Ornamented, zls. Other
styles and patterns, 17s 6d. 20s, 255, 30s, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
SALT CELLARS, 7s 6d, 8s 6d,
10s 6d, with Spoon.
A. SAUNDERS.
Silver-plated HAIRPIN TRAY, Pierced and Engraved, 4s 6d.
Pure Silver BOOK MARK, 2s 6d.
tHji
mm
This
little
PIG
A. SAUNDERS.
Child’s SPOON, Solid Silver, Chased, 7s 6d. The Very Latest and Newest Designs.
arts
immm
A. SAUNDERS.
TEA INFUSER, to make a Cup of Test, Silver-plated, 3s 6d and 4s 6d. Very Useful.
A. SAUNDERS.
OAK BISCUIT,
Silver-plated, Fluted rims,
with enamelled inside, 20s ;
plain rims, 15s.
F\oral China same price.
" a,
A. SAUNDERS.
PUFF BOX, Pure Solid Silver, Pretty and
Ornamental, 255.
Silver-plated on White Metal, 17s 6d.
Glass Bottom and Pure Silver Top,
10s, 15s, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS,
TEJ WELLER and SILVERSMITH
A BEAUTIFUL LISI LAY OF PRESENTS. “10#
Mine', 815 GEORGE-STREET.
NEARLY OPPOSITE
RAILWAY STATION,
SYDNEY.


Of the Times’ leading articles in verse—
Kipling’s ‘ ‘ Islanders ” being the latest—Labou-
chere, in London Troth, says :
The prose leading article is generally poor enough
stuff. The only object of turning it into verse seems to
be to conceal poverty of thought by violence of language
or obscurity of expression. The last article of the series
is called “ The Islanders.” The Islanders are apparently
the people of Great Britain and Ireland. The poet abuses
them in the most truculent fashion. Had I used such
language about my countrymen, I should have been met
on all sides with shouts of “ Yah, pro-Boer ! ”
A wool-ship caught fire recently at Wel-
lington (M.L.). When the alarm was given the
fire brigade was holding a dinner in the upstairs
dart of its building, and several city councillors
were among the guests. Of course, the captain
and lieutenant slid down the pole after their men,
but this was no reason why one of the heaviest of
the city fathers should do the same trick. He
came down so fast that his feet struck the head of
the man below him. Then he hit the ground
with a bang that stampeded the horses. It was
not a record “ turnout ” as far as speed was con-
cerned, for several of the men were unsober. Dur-
ing the progress of the fire two of them started a
row over the possession of a hose. Eventually
one hit the other over the head with it, and then
a policeman grabbed the one with the hose by his
chin-strap and upset him, and, as he went down,
the jet hit another city councillor in the weskit
and upset him, and he fell on a respectable
grocer. After that the row became more or less
general. It was a grand fire.
ORONZO PRESA, AGRICULTURAL
METEOROLOGIST.
Since 1899 I have issued Monthly Weather Forecasts for
this state, which on comparison with weather reports in
S. M. HbraLd day hv day show 95 per cent, correct. THE
REGENT RAINSTORM WAS FORECASTED BY ME ON
25th FEBRUARY. Records of forecasts by me may be
seen at the Government Agricultural Department. Sydney
(reference No. 99-11656 \) and at my office. Subscriptions
are ANNUAL in advance, and may commence at any time
on receipt of the small sum of 5s (five shillings)—postal
note in name of Oronzo Presa, G.P.0., Sydney—when
forecast will be forwarded in due course. 1 shall be glad
to furnish any further information to those interested in
pastoral or agricultural pursuits if they will kindly call at
my office, 522 George-street, near Park-street, Sydney.
N.B.—THE FORECAST FOR APRIL IS NOW READY.
Publications.
NEW SONGS THAT WILL LIVE.
“SAY THAT YOUR HEART IS MINE."
By Will Vernie. Sung at the Principal London
Concert Halls.
“SHEPHERD DIVINE."
Words by Arlington Villaz. Music by T. R. Olleren-
shaw. Will be welcomed in all homes where good
sacred songs are appreciated.
W. PAXTON & CO., London & Melbourne.
Catalogues Free.
TRICIiOEOOB
A Study of BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, By Dr.
ALFRED NEALE. Posted 7d.
SKIN DISEASES
AND THEIR TREATMENT.
Posted Is Id.
Publishers : Turner and Henderson, SYDNEY.
RAPID RULES. BUSINESS MEMORY
. , ‘ Useful little book. Rules for rapid
calculation are excellent. Many valuable hints.”—S. E.
„ “Memory system is ingenious. ”-S.M. Herald.
If followed out should lead on to fortune.”— S.D. Tele-
ISUSUfe J - °- cox - DAHLING “•
WRINKLES
11 FIGURES.
and
IAJESj 3/OVE LJi( X
*
M \
ij
Hi
dsg
dsg
St?
(OKSEp
Du
(otyfortf
V.
cannot
W\isTliN6 •
IATEST
LoURs k r^.
*iS* *" X
SPPS^DI*
O ■p , 'a~s ’.»
G.P.GRIFV'jTHS
Sole a cent For
ustralasi*
WATSONS CHAMBERS
MELBOURNE
BY APPOINTMENT TO lUS EXCELLENCY THE GOVERNOR-GENERAL.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
JUST PUBLISHED. ONE OF THE MOST IMPORTANT AND HISTORIC WORKS EVER PLACED
BEFORE THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC—
THE CITY OF SYDNEY.
The Story of its Growth —
from its Foundation to
the Present.
Written by JOHN ARTHUR BARRY, author of “ Steeve Brown’s Bunyip,” etc., etc.—one of our most popular
authors. The whole work edited by the EDITOR of the Town and Country Journal.
EIGHTY PACES, enclosed in a Handsomely-designed Cover, the whole printed on Perfection Paper, and
illustrated with 5300 SQUARE INCHES OF LOVELY HALF-TONE PROCESS BLOCKS.
A GREAT DEMAND IS SURE TO RESULT. The Largest and Most Valuable Book ever placed before the public
for 1/-. Rost Free, 4D. extra. MARVELLOUS VALUE.
In order to prevent disappointment, send your orders along at once. It cannot be produced again at the same price.
Every Family should possess one of these Historical Books.
Research has been made through thousands of Historical Documents and Pictures
in order to make the publication as perfect as possible.
N.S.W. Bookstall Co., 861 George-street, Sydney.
All Branches and
Booksellers.
“ PRIMUS”
Kerosene Bath Beater
HOT SHOWER INSTANTLY.
NO WIOK. NO SMELL.
From 75 a. Each.
i
m
NO PLUMBEB’S WOBK. FIX IT YOUBSELF.
Costs Half the Price of Cas.
. . . Send for Catalogue . . .
BRANPT BROS.
236 Pitt-st., Sydney;
AND . .
422 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
Wonderful Value-a Packet of Eight Different Articles,
comprising Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Casket (a good
trick), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Coin
and Card Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The. Wizard
Fish (gives definition of your character), That Wonderful
Cinematograph or Book of Living Pictures,. Mafeking
Grub (or nerve-strengthener), That side-splitting Look
and Laugh Glass, and, last of all, The Magic Mirror, or
Wonderful Breathing Glass. Instructions enclosed.
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
X
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
710 George-streefc, SYDNEY,
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager. . .
Sove Eyes! Blight!
USED 300 YEARS.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
Never fails. Restores Eyelashes .
HAD FROM ALL CHEMISTS.
“how tg preserve THE EYESIGHT."
Ask your Chemist for this little book.
Royal Agricultural Society of New South Wales
GRAND
MOORE PARK (EASTER).
March 26 to April 3, 1902.
COMMONWEALTH SHOW
.. W,* -j. \-,t i vw.-iv.* isjj. ■
Good Friday Night—
GRAND TATTOO! GRAND TATTOO!
20 BANDS
From the Bands’ Association
300 Performers-
20 BANDS
April 3rd—BENEFIT TO Mr. F. WEBSTER.
Immense Programme of Events.
Military Tournament. Cadet Manoeuvres.
Buckjumping Galore. Hunting Contests.
Tattersall’s Chambers,
Hunter Street, Sydney.
E. WEBSTER, Secretary.


A FREE VETERINARY BOOK.
Amost useful Veterinary Bookis attached
to every bottle of Gondy’s Fluid. This Book
contains instructions for curing most of the
ailments and accidents affecting Horses,
Dogs, Sheep, Cattle and Poultry.
Eminent Veterinary Surgeons recom-
mend Gondy’s Fluid as an absolutely
certain cure for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs,
Broken Knees, Grease, Thrush and
Cracked Heels in Horses—Scab, Foot
Rot, Fly, etc., in Sheep —Hoove, Foul in
the Foot, Wounds and Sores in Cattle.
Condy's Fluid is made by Condy &
-licchell, Ltd., of 65, Goswell Road,
] midon, England, and is sold by all
; Chemists and Stores. Beware of Colonial
substitutes. Insiston having Condy’s Fluid.
gds
GrO TO HBLL-
i{or,AM for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
HATS. HATS. HATS.
Mountcastie & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fitted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
BRISBiVKTE.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY * CO.,
furniture and Vine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 Georgs Surest, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION 4. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Hooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 321 George-st
THERE IS NO BUGGY
so suitable for all Back Country work as
Will do the work of a Buckboard; ride as
easv as a Buggy. Has no undergear, yet is not a Buckboard ;
springs, yet is not a Buggy. Same Price, any Port, any State
wealth. WE PAY THE FREIGHT, and Duties are off.
a. - CASH
all the body on
in the Common-
ONLY.
SIMPSON’S ‘GIL GAI.’
SIDNEY SIMPSON, Coachbuilder, 73 King St., Newtown, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Go on the Lands Department, young man,
go on the Lands Department ! There wealth
awaits the enterprising.
The Australasian political situation—Pre-
miers Seddon and Barton bidding for Imperial
favor with their countrymen’s blood at a sort of
Dutch auction.
Dreary Pulsford is reported to be in hard
training for the Senate tariff debate. If his
friends get him to the post fit and well they expect
to see a run of at least five hours.
Significant that every mining electorate in
Q. returned Labor members in recent State elec-
tion ; Gympie and the Towers returned two each.
Yet Philp professes to be the miners’ friend.
Magnificent sentiment expressed on hand-
bills of a Victorian A.N.A. art-union :
ONE NATION, ONE DESTINY.
CHANGE OF A FORTUNE FOR A 808.
AND A DOCTOR FOR 3d. A WEEK.
Senator J. C. Neild tells The Bulletin
that he never endeavoured, in the Senate or else-
where, to prevent Reynolds’ Newspaper from
circulating in Australia; he has “ never at any
time said or done anything in connection with
that paper.”
The splendid consistency of the Jingo
mind makes all things possible. It strains at the
gnat of the Pro-Boer Jack Murray, M.P., giving
a non-political lecture on Drink, and swallows the
anomalous camel of Pro-Boer Higgins as an
authority on the Federal High Court.
The daily papers, which have persistently
abused the Federal Government for opposing the
preposterous demands of the Eastern Extension
Do., have, it is said, been promised a big con-
cession in press-rates if the Government gives
way. The E.E. Co. is cutely managed.
Victoria has eleven royal commissions now
wandering round at great expense taking evidence
on eleven different subjects. A twelfth one is
badly wanted—to find out why on earth the
Peacock Ministry can’t decide for itself about
anmet.hing, and have some sort of a mind of its
own.
A FINAL EFFORT.
“A rumor was abroad yesterday that the Commonwealth Government intended to offer more troops to the
Imperial Government, if needed, in order to hasten the end of the guerilla warfare in South Africa. Age.
AUSTRALIA : “ It’s Hobson’s choice, Mr. Chamberlain. These are all the men that I have left."
“ Wealsman ” : Australia’s numerous
Governments, Governors, and the like—rulers out
of all proportion in number to the ruled—suggest
a 2oz. horse trying to wag a 2cwt. tail with
dignity and decorum. Both animals only succeed
in looking ridiculous, and neither can keep the
flies off.
At Q. general elections, Brisbane was ap-
pointed a polling-place for all electorates, thus
enabling Fatman to register his property-vote
against the local flesh and blood. And Fatman
voted to some purpose, too, as more than one
Philpite got home on the corner-allotment vote
straight.
The proposal to urge N.S.W. Parliament,
if it cannot secure payment for the general worker
for public holidays, to cut off payment for these
days from the civil service shows a rude sense of
retaliatory justice. At all events, if N.S.W.
public servants lost their pay for public holidays,
these festive occasions would be few and far be-
tween.
Take the case—it is not imaginary, but
can be found in every State of the Commonwealth
—of a member of Parliament who uses his free
railway-pass to conduct a business in rivalry with
members of the non-political community. Was the
pass meant for such purposes ? If it wasn’t, is the
member misappropriating Government property
or what ?
Poor South Australia, which is already
threatened by its Treasurer with more direct
taxation, looks with horror on the added expense
of Australia’s military establishment. Once she
spent £15,000 a year on guns, generals, and glory,
but her share of the Blood Tax under Federation
is £40,000 annually, with nothing extra to show
for it.
No gainsaying that the defeat of Laborite
Turley by “Grizzler” Foxton, at Stanthorpe, Q.,
was a set-back to Q. Labor-party. Seeing that
Walter Bentley Biggs, the Scotch by terian actor,
gave Foxton a close run, three years ago, it looked
a soft thing for a good Laborite, but the hero of
the Cambooya election-trouble is back again for
three years.
Cabled that Edward VII is going to
celebrate his coronation by giving a dinner to
500,000 of the poor of London. Think of it—
half-a-million people in one city who are supposed
to be so poor that a pauper feed is reckoned the
kind of celebration that their case calls for ! Free-
trade is indeed an infallible recipe for making
people Jolly and Fat.
Nineteen years ago, on the motion of Mr.
Teeee, N.S.W. Leg. Assembly by 46 to 26 votes
carried the discontinuance of fees for elernentary
education. Now Government and Opposition are
practically in favor of continuing the fees, and
unless the Labor party whip strongly, the illogical
3d. fine on parents for doing a legally compulsory
act will deface the statute book indefinitely.
The political salvation of Premier Philp
at the Q. elections was the shameless electoral
law. An analysis of the voting shows that,
according to latest returns, Ministerialists polled
51,330 votes; Labor, 40,787; and Independent
Opposition, 9146. Add to these figures one-half
the number of votes on the rolls in the uncon-
tested electorates (four) and it pans out thus:
Government (less 10 per cent, plural votes) 49,850
votes, returning 42 members ; combined Opposi-
tion, 50,000, with 30 members. Thanks to the
unequal Q. electoral law the Ministry has a
majority of 12, although in a minority in the
country. No wonder Philp shows no disposition
to give electoral reform; it would mean political
suicide for the Continuous Ministry.
NoticeableduringQueensland elections that
the wobblers from Democracy were, with one ex-
ception, “passed out.” Lilley, Curtis, Cross, St.
Ledger, and “ Dinny ” Keogh are back to ob-
scurity, and Jason Boles got his title simply
because his opponent was new to the district, and
an unknown quantity.
The S. Australian Laborites are in trouble
again ; this election, like the last, bumps Tip
against an Adelaide race-meeting—and it wasn’t
the race-outing that was damaged last time. The
Govt, will gain most, for the Nonconformist con-
science takes the Jenkins-Foster crowd most
kindlv to its apron.
THE WAGER BUSINESS
AGAIN.
PRISONER ( charged with
being without means and
in a filthy condition):
“ I'm walking round the
worruld, your Wushup,
for a wager , an ’ I'm
not to wash meself an’ drink nothing but beer”
(Sentence deferred.)
Despite denials, the rumor still circulates
that Premier Philp will take the job of Q. Rail-
way Commissioner owing to Gray’s continued ill-
health. Philp’s distinguished ability as Treasurer
makes him peculiarly fitted to boss a big financial
institution such as the railway department. Philp
as Commissioner, with “Janny” Leahy as
Minister, would indeed be theQ. Heavenly Twins.
The selection of motions of adjournment in
N.S.W. Assembly is, when more motions than
one are submitted, determined by lottery ; the
sheriff’s selection of the names of jurors to serve
in civil and criminal cases is determined by lottery;
the proceedings of several of the church assemblies
are determined by lottery ; and yet George Adams’
horse-lottery is denounced as immoral and soul-
destroying.
If Premier Barton would show half the
velocity in taking over the Northern Territory,
which is part of Australia and a matter of real
Australian importance, that he does in taking over
British New Guinea and Burns, Philp and Co.’s
land in the New Hebrides, and similar extraneous
matters, it would be better for Australia. The
Minister for External Affairs appears to be
altogether too external.
Senator Higgs deserves commendation for
his courage in protesting in the Senate, during the
present state of public feeling, against the Third
Commonwealth Contingent of 2000 men. The
Victim is just now on such friendly terms with the
Vampire as to enjoy the process of blood-letting.
But tnere will be an awakening and then, but not
until then, will the bold patriotism of men like
Griffith and Higgs be recognised.
When the Western Lands Bill was going
through N.S.W. Parliament, Lands Minister
Crick made a strong point of the fact that the
Board was to be strictly non-political. Now we
read that “the Minister intends to sit with the
Board and travel with it some.” What for?
The Act clearly defines the duties of the Minister
and the duties of the Board and there is nothing
in it to sanction Mr. Crick’s course.
Premier Philp is going to open the present
Q. Parliament on Ist May, and give members a
chance of saying how the money is to be spent ?
Not much ! Parliament will be opened, as usual,
about the middle of June, and five months will
be wasted in discussing claptrap and syndicate
legislation, as usual. Then a few millions of tax-
payers’ money will be rushed through per guillo-
tine about midnight, next Xmas Eve, as usual.
What has become of Local Government in
N.S.W. ? The See manifesto and the Governor’s
speech contained specific promises of Local Go-
vernment. Premier See now professes to believe
that the Municipal Bill before the House last
session is all that the country needs—-a merely
consolidating measure, which did not advance
local government one inch. The roads-and-bridges
member is as great a nuisance as ever—and just as
big a source of strength to a O’Seeullivan Ministry
as ever—which accounts for the milk in the
cocoanut.
Sydney Freetrade press, after inciting the
Freetrade and Labor members to abolish the duty
on tea, as a move to embarrass the Federal
Government, is now—frightened by the indignant
protests of the big advertising tea-dealers—squeal-
ing woefully over its work. The Freetrade
papers, Sydney D.T. in particular, throw bricks
about in so large and generous a manner that
they very often have to mourn a friendly window
broken. The tea-duty was not felt as a burden
on the people, and its loss is a staggering blow to
the Federal revenue —already in so poor a condi-
tion that money has to be borrowed to buy guns
and put windows in post-offices, and carry through
other “permanent and reproductive works.”
A set of mouth-moralists have been trying
to induce Victorian Railway Minister Trenwith to
discourage Sunday trips to the seaside. The other
day a deputation representing the Christian
Citizens League and the Sunday School Union
called upon Trenwith and arrogantly requested
him to charge double rates on the rail-
ways for journeys to seaside resorts on
Sundays. The argument was used that
there should be no Sunday traffic on the
railways. But one black-coated sham
after another sat down without asking-
for the abolition of the Sunday morning
trains which take black-coated individuals
from the suburbs to the big city churches,
or for any increase of fares on them.
Apart from that phase of the question, it
would be interesting if an examination
could be made of the unhealthy minds of
people who wish to prevent the dust-
laden population of the city getting a
breath of fresh air on Sundays. They
are something akin to those dour creatures
mentioned by Oliver Wendell Holmes,
who would cut off the tail of a kitten if
they found her playing with it. Tren-
witli told his insanitary-minded callers
that he had no sympathy with their
request.
Crick is “ doin’ splendid ” as
N.S.W. Lands Minister been burnt
twice in effigy—and now the “Farmers
and Settlers’ Association of N.S.W.” has
its knife in him. The secret of the dis-
like to Crick is that he doesn’t consult
local personages. When seventeen in-
habitants with carefully-prepared speeches
come as a deputation to Crick, he tells
them he knows what they want, makes
the speech they had all prepared to make,
and does it a lot better than they could ;
and they find themselves out in the street, with
their business done certainly but with their
oration undelivered. And they never forgive
Crick.
Many men turn Jingo in their old nge
because then they can’t be expected to fight for
their Jingoism. How many Australian politicians
turn bloodthirsty when they are on their last legs!
In one way, anyhow, the administration
of Far-out N.S.W. by the Western Lands Com-
mission will cost more than it has under the
Lands Department. Officers who join the Com-
missioners’ service practically sever themselves
from the Lands Department, and though there is
statutory provision for rejoining, a man has no-
guarantee as to the billet he will get back to..
Consequently, the Commissioners are finding it
necessary to offer much higher salaries than the
Department has paid for equal services, and even
then they are not being carried off their feet by the
rush of applicants.
The Senate wisely threw the cumbersome
Hare system of voting out of the Electoral Bill,
and decided just to have a plain vote. Tasmania
has tried the Hare system, and found it futile,
cumbersome, and undermining to the intellect.
In every case, the same men got in who would
have got in if only the first vote had been counted
in the ordinary way. At the Tas. Senatorial elec-
tion, the vote had to be counted 14 times under
the Hare system, and when the whole complicated
muddle was exhausted, and the returning-offieer
was exhausted also, the 15 candidates stood in
exactly the same order as at the beginning.
The Philp Government ran 75 candidates
at the recent Q. elections ; at least one-half of
these declared themselves opposed to the Ministry
on vital points of policy. Only 25 straight-out
supporters of Philp were returned, and these
included seven Ministers, the colleagues of two
of them, the Speaker, Chairman of Committees,
two of Philp’s brothers-in-law (the brother-in-law
industry is a great one in Q.), and a brother of one
of the Ministers. The balance were mainly
returned for seats in and around the metropolis,
where the electors seem to be hypnotised by a
servile press.
Of the present members of the Vic-
torian House of 48 Rich Landlords only four
had to fight for their seats at last election, and
that was merely because the departure of some of
the old gang for the Federal Legislature had some-
what stirred the scum on the surface of the
political Dead Sea. Four, or five, or even ten
thousand pounds are commonly spent on a con-
tested election —when there is one—for the dreary
House of Boodle. When a legislative body has
so stagnated and petrified that a rich man buys
his seat at a great price and then holds it for life
without a contest, it badly needs some kind of an
upheaval.
A recent London cable :
“ The South African share market has not been affected
by the reverse.”
Twenty thousand sleeping low,
Thousands more to fall in fight;
“ What of chat? ” cries Broker Joe,
“ What of that ?—the shares are right."
Honor may have, long ago,
Caused our countrymen to fight;
But to-day, say Rhodes and co.,
Money makes the army go
Forth to —keep the shares all right !
The Commonwealth duty on imported
brandies has inspired a co. to start a distillery in
the Hunter Valley. The Freetrade Sydney D.T.
of March 15 pointed out: “The company
will afford a profitable outlet for the local grape
crop, and to vignerons especially it should prove
serviceable.” That is the whole theory and prac-
tice of Protection in a nutshell, and if the 3s. a
gallon Protection afforded by the Federal tariff
has produced this good result, other Protective
duties should produce similar good results, and 1
the Telegraph’s anti-Australian policy of favor-
ing the foreign importer at the expense of the
local British subject goes by the board.
Tasmania’s revenue deficit doesn’t trouble
the dreams of the islanders. It is proposed to-
postpone provisions for payment thereof for five
years or so, in the sure and certain hope that
population will have increased in that period, and
things will somehow come right by themselves.
As the Lewis Govt., like all its weary predeces-
sors, does absolutely nothing to induce outsiders
to settle in the island, the faith of Tassy is a
solemn thing. If the V.D.L. Co. were induced by
a vigorous, graduated land-tax and a heavy
absentee-tax to get out of bed in haste and sell its
western wildernesses, there might be more settle-
ment and more people to pay taxes, and more
revenue. In this hot, dry Commonwealth almost
the only cool spot where it rains every week
regularly, lies nearly idle, all because a land-gra!
syndicate is partly asleep and partly dead.


Lipp
Piano
It you want the Best
German Piano made.
Lipp Pianos have been sold
in Australia for over
35 years.
They are the most
Popular Pianos
on the market.
*
Thousands of Lipp Pianos
have been sold and given
unqualified satisfaction.
Pure in tone, and built
to last a lifetime.
*
Sold on Easy Terms.
Catalogues Free.
&
PALING’S
338 / George-st.,
Sydney.
You Know
BQBBBBBH
that * » * *
We Know
Our business thoroughly; were it not so we should not be at the “ top of the
tree ” as sellers of Pianos, Organs, and Musical Instruments.
To know a Music business properly requires years and years of constant and
thoughtful study. We lay claim to 49 years’ experience in the music trade, and
give you the very best value obtainable in Pianos and Organs. We select our
goods with the utmost care, and sell nothing we cannot guarantee.
As an example, take a LIPP PIANO, You cannot get a better piano for
the money anywhere. They are made in a variety of models, from the Cottage
Model 4ft. 4in. high to a noble-looking Upright Grand. The Lipp factories were
established in 1831, and they hold a record of 71 years in scientific and practical
piano making.
If you want the best German Piano made
Buy a Genuine Lipp.
These grand instruments can be bought only at PALTUG’S, and kindly remember
they do not sell any Bogus Lipps or Lipp systems.
Easy Terms. Old Pianos Taken in Exchange.
CATALOGUES FREE.
Victor
Piano
Has proved its popu-
larity by the enormous
number of orders we
have received.
We sold last year over 400
Victor Pianos.
If you want the Best
Piano made and sold at
a Low Price,
Buy a
VICTOR. 'P
and you will have a
Piano that will give you
every satisfaction.
Made in 3 models, and sold
on Easy Terms.
Send for Catalogues.
Jc?
PALING’S
338 Georg'e-st.,
Sydney.
W. H. PALING & GO., Limited, 338 ceorge-st,
Sydney.
And at
BRISBANE,
NEWCASTLE.
M
, I i
Koh-i-Noor
Copper-
Gilded
letters.
For Signs and
Shop-fronts.
ABSOLUTELY
PERMANENT.
:j Sole Agents:
J. Leigh Jones&Ca
509Geokge St.,
<^SYDNEY
Aootfjer Wopdcrfftl CGrs.
HEMORRHAGE OF LUNUS of Years Standing.
/ ■' \
CTTBIEID' BIT
’J n
j } )
Read what Mr. A.;«IACtU;ON has to say:
l .North Melbourne,
, ■ j November 14, 1900.
To Mr. PALMER.— ‘ ; j
Dear Sir, —I have pleasure'in i giving my testimony as'
to the trood quality and curing. power of Webber's
VITADATIO. Some; four years ag;o 1 was taken ill. One
doctor said it was typhoid fever, liwasin bed some three
weeks, then I got We’aker' and 1 weaker,j until I went to
another doctor, who said thatitwasiintermittent phthisis
(what people know as consumption) and'ordered me to
Echuca at once. I went to Ecnuca, j stayed there five or
six weeks, and came home again. About three weeks
after coming home 1 had hemorrhage come on, and I laid
up and thought I was getting .round 'again, when it came
on again (after an interval of six months.) (Then they got
oftener and oftener until they, were coining on every
month. The doctor (the third ohe) ; told !me at the finish
he could do no more. On the i afternoon of the day he
told me one of the VITADATIO pamphlets were pushed
under my front door ; my boy-brought it to me, jand on
reading of a similar case to myjown as saying been cured,
I said I would try some. I sent down for. a bottle at once
and commenced to take it. (At this time- I was | laid up
with the worst turn of the hemorrhage that I had had.)
The bleeding began to stop, and. L did not have another
turn for nearly 12 months. 1 then had a 1 slight'attack,
but it did not last one day. .1 thought 1/would .’go l , and
see Mr. Palmer and tell him. He told me to take'another
bottle or so, and that possibly that would be the last 1
would see of the hemorrhage. l;did as he said and have'
not seen a sign of bleeding since'(nearly three!years.) 1
am thankful that I started to. take VITADATIO,\ as 1
honestly believe I would have been dead long ago Inad 1
not done so. I will be pleased to give any informa,t4on
any time to any other sufferer.
(Signed) ALFRED JACKSON,
CS3-5' Elizabeth-street,
! Ncuth Melbourne.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write,for Testimonials-
IN order to introduce our Gold Wire Jewellery
to the Australian public we have decided to
offer one of the greatest bargains ever seen in the
jewellery trade— viz., the above handsome Brooch
(any name or three initials) made of extra quality
9ct. gold-filled wire, with heart pendant ; guaran-
teed the same quality as the brooch advertised,
complete. Sent post-free on receipt of P. 0.0. or
M.O. for ss. in round wire or sq. twisted wire, 15ct.
gold, filled, Bs. fid. Illustrated catalogues sent free.
SIMS and ELRICK, Manufacturing Jewellers.
Our only address—
COLE’S BOOK ARCADE, MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA.
Henry Skinner,
01arendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10hS. CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
Delected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
I'll Try IV
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
(apillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6d.
BOLB AGENTS.
The Result.
CRAIG & AITKEN, N.S.W. Barber’s Supply
House. 680*682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIAN . . .
STAMPS
-Highest Cash Prices Paid
to any amount for
Old or Rare Stamps,
Used or Unused.
The First
Australian Stamp.
o<>Nri-K.vS'yEO l
For Sale—The Largest Stock of STAMPS, ALBUMS, etc.,
in the Southern Hemisphere.
SMYTH & NICOLLE, 14 Hunter-st., Sydney
LET US SEND
1
HI
‘
■ V
@ i
■Hpbk
V‘
• v AV.
to you
BY
POST
THE
CALLAGHAN
BOOT.
Men’s Fine French Calf
LACE BOOTS, pointed,
medium, or broad toes, made-
to-order appearance,
Price 22/6.
When you pay 22/6 for a pair of
Callaghan Boots you get style, elegance,
comfort, fit, as well as the durability re-
sulting from good material and expert work-
manship. If you could visit the factory and
see the expensive material and thoughtful care
that go into Callaghan Boots you would never
think of wearing any other Boots.
If you are not convenient to our premises, our perfectly-
systematised Mail Order Department will fit you to your thorough
satisfaction, or refund your money. Boots delivered, prepaid, to any
address in the Commonwealth upon receipt of
23/6 per pair. (The extra 1/- is for Delivery).
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 George St., Sydney


Banking, Public Companies, &o.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security. —^
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS,
WE
cs&
$
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
tKT.S-'W.
Iflont depiete 0.^1.C 0 -,^.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74. CASTLEREAGH ST., 74.
' SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOB
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
*on. J F. Burns,' Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
G.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruch Smith, Esq.
t Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
accumulated Funds, -£2, 491,989. .
Policies issued 85,372— assuring £26,085,346.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,576,850.
Poly ies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. |.iberal Bonuses —ecjuitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 Ac 421 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE-
Leslie J. PARE, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
fhe gan's of [jorth Queensland
1.l Al I’IVKD.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director JAMES BURNS,Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Oo. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED.,CAPITAL £700,000
Capital PaicUup £lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Stiare-
holders ... ... 250 000 ... £350.000
Queensland Smelting Campy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
JJ Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, ap ly to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
gem Zealand Insurance Co.
FIRE and MARINE.
CAPITAL
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES
£1,000,000
420,000
Largest Colonial Company.
J - A Hira Ew 81 Pitt St., Sydney.
Tb« Tr6st€€s, €*€<;GtorS,
AND
Conjpaoy Linjitcd,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business)
Amount at Credit of Estates. Trusts,
and Clients, 30th June, 1901 16,388,976
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
0. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
£BB5B 7 3
5 3
The
Royal Bank of Queensland
» TT 714 T TOP L 1 "
LIMIT KD.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £423,000
RESERVE LIABILITY QF SHAREHOLDERS.. 209,581
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 54,000
£686,581
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Geii. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital
.. £2,500,000
Ocean
A evident
ana
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
I The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. of the Colonies.
Dire3tors-orSvdnej r : Sir W. M ‘Millan, Hon. A. W. Meeks.
Adelaide : L. A. Jessod, Esq. Wellington : 11.
Beauchamp, Esq.
Managers : Melbourne, D. OtTNE; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Fart.axk ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farqiiiiar ; Wellington, N.Z., G. M. Montefioue.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
131 Pitt St, SYDNEY.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £15,000, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties,
and £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-GeneraL
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address.— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
Shipping.
HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Peregrine, Sat., March 29,12 Noon.
Barrabool, Tues., April 1, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, April 5,12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Buninyong, Tues., April 15, 5 p.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Buninyong, Tues., April 15, 5 p.m.
(No Transhipment.)
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Tyrian, Sat., March 22, 12 Noon.
Gabo, Tuesday, April 1, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Sat., April 5, 12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Tyrian, Sat., March 22,12 Noon.
Peregrine, Sat., April 5, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT i ]
GERALDTON l
CAIRNS. &c. (
Lass o’ Gowrie, from
weekly. Passengers
' booked throusrh.
Townsville
and Cargo
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
SUEVIC, on or about 25th APRIL.
PERSIC, RUNIC, MEDIC, and AERIC
to follow.
FARES—Capetown .. .. £l3 13 0 to £2l 0 0
London .. .. 16 3 5 to 24 5 1
New York, &c. .. 22 511 to 30 7 7
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
Duddart, parker & (Jo’s Qine
—TO —
MELBOUKNE, HOBAUT,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTBALIA,
NEW ZEALAND POIIL’S.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
J°k. 3NT 13
&
A
ac jm i n
via
San Francisco,
California.
SPLENDID NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS,
SIERRA
SONOMA
VENTURA
Over 6000 Tons each.
8000 H.P. '
m
Length, 425 feet,
Passengers booked through to American, Canadian and
European centres at current ,rates»
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts. SYDNEY.
TIME TABLE.
THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
-THE—
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
AssOraocc Society.
(ESTABLISHED 1879.)
THE MOST LIBERAL AND PROGRESSIVE
LIFE OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA.
HEAD OFFICE:
Intersection Hunter, Bligh and Castlereagh
Streets, Sydney.
VICTORIAN BRANCH:
Baring Chambers, Market Street, Melbourne.
Wm. Bennett, Manager.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH :
36 and 38 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
JAS. GLISSAN, Resident Secretary.
GEO. CROWLEY, General Manager.
Tianh of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
2,000,000 0 0
1,270,000 0 0
2,000,000 0 0
Total 5,270,000 0 0
Directors:
Hon. Chas. K. Mackbllar, M.L.C., President.
Senator James Thomas Walker.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq,
Richa'rd Binnie, Esq.
Hon. Henry Norm and MacLaijrin, M.L.C.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L C.
Auditors:
A. G. Milson, Esq. J. S. Harrison, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
T.ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
,£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
WANTED
JF YOU ARE SUFFERING from any of the following
ailments, viz., Rheumatism, Sciatica, Vital Weak-
ness, Liver Complaint, Dyspepsia, Lame Back or
Debility, Kidney Disease or any Organic Derange-
ments, we want you to wear one of our ELECTRIC
BELTS, and when CURED to let other sufferers know
that our 1 ELECTRIC BELTS will permanently CURE
when all other Remedies have FAILED. We prefer those
cases who have failed to obtain relief elsewhere. Send
us a description of your case, and size around the waist
next to skin. Address—
ARTHUR HALE & SON, Medical Galvanists,
44 Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
London Address : 105 Regent Street, W.
RUPTURE
CURED
without
operation ot pain,
gd
no detention from work, or depend-
ence upon Trusses. The only
humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
.Treatise No. io. Address:
» SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C.S., tNG.,
Con Russell &. Collins Sts.*
Throw away
your Trust.
MELBOURNE,
IST. D. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
*Twin screw.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO SINGAPORE,
Via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW
GUINEA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. TANG LIN, 30th APRIL,
And Regularly Thereafter.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
IN CONNECTION WITH
CANADIAN-PACIFIC RAILWAY.
THE “ ALL-RED ” ROUTE
via Brisbane, Fiji, Honolulu,
Vancouver.
STEAMERS SAIL-
April 21, May 19, June 16.
Cheapest Bates to America.
Special Rates, Single and
Return to London.
Send for Illustrated Pamphlet Descriptive of route.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
ORNAMENTAL HAIR, f
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English ,
Hair Tails, fas 6d to £3 3s. . Send Pattern of Hair aqd
write for any information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers & Wigmakers.
Send to tis for Price Lists' of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia.
CR.A.I& & AITKEKT,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 George Street, Sydney.
PHOTOS
Models from Life, Beautiful Stereo-
scopies, etc. List with 100 Minia-
ture and 23 Cabinet size photos.
ss. P. 0.0. or stamps.
8. RECKNACEL NACHF, Munich, 1 Brietfach, Germany.
Shipping.
THE ADTLAIDESTEAMSHIPCO.
(LIMIT 151)).
, EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping- at Fremantie
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Marloo
(from Melbourne),
Tuesday, April 1.
S.S. Wollowra
(from Melbourne),
Tuesday, April 15.
Brisbane
mackay
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Ointra,
Thursday, March 27.
S.S. Adelaide,
Saturday, March 29.
liest and Cheapest Ho ate to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A.U.S.N. Co. and Howard Smith Co.,
Ld. For Adelaide and W.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. Ooy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships, as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE -Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay.
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SIDNEY and BURKETOWN— Every 3 Weeks, via Ur'u
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and EIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Passeriner A cconnnodution, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO , Ltd., Agents, In Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
P AND O. COMPANY’S
“ ‘ ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
* Via Hobart.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B 10s to £77
Ditto Ditto Return, £7llos to £l2l
Ketrarn Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific, and
Messageries Maritimes Steamers having room.
EDWARD TRELAWNY,
Superintendent in Australia.
63 Pitt-street.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons; under -Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and POUT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including- table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT itEDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
“E. AND A.” LINE.
. . TO . .
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Steamer. iTns. Commander. |Leave Sydney.
GUTHRIE .. 2500'W. G. McArthur.. 'April 5
EASTERN , . 3600 Winthrop Ellis .. May 3
AIRLIE 2500 St. John George.. May 24
AUSTRALIAN .. 3000 P. T. Helms .. June 21
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with EVERY CON-
VENIENCE FOR TROPICAL TRAVELLING.
Passengers hooked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates in con-
junction with the Canadian-Pacific and other Steamship
Companies, t
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
. . SMOKE. .
THE
ISISNI
having this Brand
and no other.
, V AGENTS
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.
231 Clarence Street, Sydney.


Again the Wesfcralian goldfields unionists
are kicking against the inflow of Austrian and
Italian laborers. The local Trades Hall writes to
the Federal Govt, that
On many m'nes they are now employed as bracemen,
and through their inability to speak or understand
English, the lives of the men engaged underground are
endangered.
A Melb. intending suicide put a bullet
-into his brain the other night, and then fired off
the remaining chambers of his revolver to attract
the police. Asked why he had not finished the
job, he replied, “I fired one bullet into my head.
Then I had enough.”
Sydney Telegraph advertisement :
TKT ANTED, a swift Boy.
*' Parramatta.
Adam and Eve, Drapers,
Adam and Eve had a slow boy once who was over-
taken by his brother Cain, and evidently they are
taking precautions now.
NAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
W ,^ OUI ) d 8 that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion t Jr so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. lerhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
r S , u 1 '} to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
hu U°. .? do ? t "ay perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured,
bend atonce for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, lumours. Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
sfi’ui-lou?’ Britain, l/ljd. per bux. Prepared by
tL T 7^J“ r J, l ?S<lon- 6tre et, London, England.
Agents : ELLIOT I BROs., Sydney Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of. the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
XJSB
SPOONER’S
■
m
SPOONERS
# m %
IMTENT LEATHER BOOTS
GLAZED KIDS&?
f.mfih+Hi* .#*• »'l
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning: and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and ls.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRAVAIS
BRAVAiS’ IRON
In concentrated dropa.
FER BRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS 1
most effective in
restoring the vitality
I of the blood,and ena-
bling tli constitution
to i esist climatic
influences.
[ Invaluable in all
I cases of anecmia and
1 general debility.
Highly recommended
for weak and
1 debilitated children.
LANCET. “A beautiful and interesting
preparation."
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.- I */* Tia* all
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the diges tion,and
it does not blacken the teeth."
=Ol !> BV CHEMISTS Al t. THE WORI.D OVER.
WHOLESALE: Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette-
9
Li
jj
i. -
ttl m
ji'
4ss|BiDad§
UidSOQJOjOOQ
WANT TO GET WELL, to
feel the blood course through
your veins as it tised to do? If
so, then you must stop using
nasty drugs, that only injure
your stomach and give you new
complaints. Thousands of men
have come to us after spending
their time and money on quacks
and so-called specialists. We
knew what they needed. They
were like an engine without
steam, completely run down.
We knew that Electricity was
the steam they lacked, and we
pumped a steady current into
their body for several hours 1
each night, until finally they
began to see the beginning of a 1
rapid recovery. A few morei
weeks of this grand element,
and they were well. Electricity, 1
and Electricity alone, is what
you need, and
Or. Pjctaughlin’s Electric gelt
Will give it to you. It produces all the current you can stand ; and you don’t have to take any
medicine. You previously had enough of drugs, and you know what they did for you.
Dr. McLaughlin’s Belt has cured 49,000 men like you. Mind you, it is not a
new thing, but it is the product of many years’ investigation and study.
ANOTHER HAPPY MAN.^-^
Winslow, Darling Point, N.S.W.,
Dr. McLAUGHLIN CO. March 12, 1902.
Dear Sirs,—lt is with the greatest pleasure and feeling of gratitude that I bear witness to the excellence
of your Electric Belts. Some time ago I sustained a heavy fall, and ruptured the big muscle in the back.
I was in great pain, and after two weeks in bed I happened to see your advertisement in a newspaper. I got
one of your high-grade Belts, and after a week I felt very much better, and after a second week I was, and
am now, as well as I was before the accident. I still wear the Belt for two hours every evening, and feel
the benefit of it. It has not only cured me in two Weeks (although the doctor attending me told me it would
be months before I would get well), but it has made my back verv much stronger than before the accident
I strongly advise all with pain in the back to try your Electric Belt, and I shall be very pleased to give all
information personally to anyone.
I remain, dear sirs, yours gratefully, ROBERT VERON.
There is only
One Electric
Belt in
Australasia—
Dr. McLAUCHLIN’S.
YOU DON’T NEED MEDICINE WHEN YOU USE IT, BECAUSE IT GENER-
ATES A STRONG ELECTRIC CURRENT. A REAL ELECTRIC BELT NEEDS NO
DRUGS TO ASSIST IT.
Call and test our Belt, FREE ; or, if you are too far away to call, write to us and we will
mail you our descriptive, illustrated Book, giving prices and showing all applications. We do
the largest mail order, business of this.kind in the world. Don’t hesitate to write us; it costs
you nothing if you dpn’t take the treatment; If you do t you get your money’s worth.
CALL, OR WRITE; DON’T DELAY. OFFICE HOURS—9 a.m. to 9 p.m.
(lie Dr. McLaughlin Co., 85 King St, Sydney
Dr. Olarkaon.’a Electric Belt.
Il fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
eriments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
in any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
>ense for renewals or repairs.
Dr. Clarliaoii’a Re-]
igs the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
eWed energy and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
our.
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
itic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, areneral collanse of all vital
te, the combined, treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-IN VIGORATOR
V
▼ •
• bring happiness and-Wealth: The influence of these two agents'On the Nerves and Organs won<Wf,.i
'& THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC. " anS is truly woncl,rful.
Price —ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
LL OR WRITE—
OWL
CUT
RATE
DKUGr STORE!
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
HERR RASSMUSSEN (HANS PETER RASMUSSEN),
The Celebrated Danish Botanist,
Proprietor and Discoverer of the World-Famed Alfaline Herbal Remedies,
which have been the means of effecting the most marvellous Cures for Blood,
Skin and Nervous Diseases ever heard of in Australia.
Herr Rassmussen’s Australian Career:
It is • about Twenty Years since Herr
Rassmussen introduced his Herbal Remedies
to the Australian Public. At that time
he was only known to the public as a Botanist
pure and simple, having devoted almost his
whole life to the study of that most useful
and interesting branch of science. It how-
ever, soon dawned on Herr Rassmussen that
immense virtues existed in ma-y plants which
were entirely unknown to medical men, and
that it was his duty towards his fellow man
to bring these new discovered Herbal Remedies
within the means of suffering humanity.
Herr Rassmussen at once set to work,
and his entire energy was directed towards
extracting the medical properties from all
kinds of plants, and putting them up in the
most suitable and practical form, according
to the nature of the complaints which they
had been found a cure for.
Pills and Powders were found to be the
most practical form to administer these new
Herbal Remedies.
It is unnecessary to particularise here the
immense success Herr Rassmussen met with
in his venture twenty years ago ; suffice it to
say that in less than twelve months the
great and wonderful cures brought about by
his Alfaline Herbal Remedies were known
throughout Australia, New Zealand, and many
other parts of the world. Testimonials and
Honors arrived from all parts. Gold Medals
from Paris and other plac s were awarded, and
Herr Rassmussen’s name has been a house'
hold word ever since. (Sydney Press.)
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Herbal Remedies!
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
are a guaranteed cure for all Nervous Di eases’
Weak Spine, Brain and Nerves, Poor Memory
Tired Feeling, Melancholia, Spots before ihe
Eyes, etc. Boxes, 6/- and 12/-; courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS
are a permanent cure for Wasting Diseases in
Women, Anaemia, and a perfect Blood and
Nerve Tonic Boxes. 6- & 12/-; courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS
are a permanent cure for all Chronic Blood
and Skin Diseases, Blotches, Blood Disorders,
Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, &c.
Boxes, 6/-and 12/-; courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE LIVER & KIDNEY PILLS
cure Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulence,
Heartburn, Wind, Biliousness and Headache.
Boxes, One Shilling.
ALFALINE RHEUMATIC PILLS.
Guaranteed to cure Rheumatism, Gout,
Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted 3/-,
6/-> 12/- & 23/6. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
ALFALINE ASTHMA & COUGH PILLS.
A wonderful remedy for Coughs, Colds, Con-
sumption, Bronchitis, Influenza and Asthma.
Boxes, posted, 3/-, 6/-, 12/- & 23/6.
GENERAL REMEDIES.
Alfaline Pile Powders, cure internal and
external Piles, boxes 3/- and 6/- ; Varicocele
Powders, boxes 6/-; Blood Capsules or
Globulus, 6/- ; Fat-Reducing Powders, which
removes corpulency, 6/- ; Hair Restorer, 6/-;
Corn Cure, 1/- ; Ointment, 1/- ; Eucalyptus
Oil and Jujul>es, boxes 1/- ; Flesh-Producing
Powders, 6/-; Worm Tablets, 1/-; Headache
Tablets, 1/- ; Electric Belts, Suspenders,
Bandages, etc. Circulars with all particulars
sent Free.
ifEiEDIES BY POST A SPECIALTY.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has made special arrangements for attending
personally to his Clients living in the Country, and Letters will receive
most careful attention.
His Remedies will he forwarded to sufferers, packed in plain cover and
unobserved, together with Advice and Directions. Letters should he addressed
to Herr Rassmussen’s full name—HANS PETER RASMUSSEN —a-., d
Registered if containing Money.
Herr Rassmussen’s Addresses:
Head Office: 547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
ALSO AT
MELBOURNE—ISO; Bourke Street
BRISBANE—3O9 Queen Street
ADELAIDE—IS Fulteriey Street
N,2—91 Lambton Quay, Wellington
W.A. —PERTH—4BI Hay Street
KAL&OORLIE—Hannan Street
BOULDER CITY-Piesse Street
PREMANTLE-117 High Street
A FREE BOOK SENT ON APPLICATION,
with Advice, Tesiunouials, aud List of Alfaline Remedies.


Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER ....
As
a Corrective
and Safeguard
of HEALTH.
THE BEST REMEDY TO-DAY IN THE MARKET IS
REUTER’S LITTLE PILLS
FOR THE LIVER.
A HOUSEHOLD NECESSITY.
Victorian town and country racing on St.
Patrick’s Day resulted as follows :—Melbourne : Melb.
amateur wheelers’ 5-mile handicap. F. Fraser, Ist. Melb.
St. Patrick’s Day Fete, 2nd and 3rd class handicaps, H.
Thorne, Ist; 1 mile handicap, G. R. Morgan, Ist; 5 miles
combination scratch race, G. R. Morgan, Ist. Colac : 1
mile handicap, J. Parket, Ist; 5 miles scratch, R. Ander-
son, Ist; Hamilton 2 miles wheel race, R. Anderson, Ist ;
i miles handicap, H. O’Callaghan, Ist. Omeo : 1 mile
handicap, H. T. M‘Coy, Ist ; 2 miles wheel race, M. T.
M‘Coy, Ist. All above riders rode Massey Harris bicycles.*
* * » *
Gr. Farley, the promising Red Bird sprinter,
won the Melbourne St. Patrick’s Day wheel race.*
“Piles and Their Cure.”—The pamphlet
by Albert Sharp, entitled Piles and the Way to
Cure Them,” without operation, sent free, on
application to the Sydney Depot, 257 George-
street.*
The great reference work of the Commonwealth,
“ The Year Book of Australia,” is now to hand for 1902.
This is a work that never changes, except to bring its
colossal array of facts and figures up-to-date. There is
hardly a subject, from horse-racing records to divorce
statistics, from the best place to visit from Saturday till
Monday to an account of the various denominations in
detail which the “ Year Book ” is not replete with in-
formation on.*
The Hansard fountain pen compared with the
old-fashioned pen, is what the modern hook is compared
with the ancient papyrus roll. The Hansard makes
writing a pleasure. It never clogs or gets out of order.
It is perfectly clean and reliable. It is one of the most
comfortable things that ever came to a busy man, and
even the poet or the nice young girl who wants to write
love letters will compose best when armed with a
Hansard. One pen will write a thousand words without
re-filling and its price, 7s. 6d., puts it within easy reach
of everybody.*
JOHN JAMESON
“THREE-STAR” WHISKEY.
Agents : J. BAEEE JOHNSTON & CO., Loftus Street, Sydney.
RED BIRD BICYCLES
ALL THE LATEST MODELS OF OUR RED BIRD BICYCLES WILL BE FOUND AT
THE AGRICULTURAL SHOW.
OOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King Street, Sydney.
Hardy’s
Absolutely Pure;
Tintara Wines
.
Fully Matured; 700 Medals, etc.
Adelaide:
CURRIE BTREET
Melbourne:
COLLINS STREET
Sydney:
grosvenor street
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Maclarenites went Englandwards by the Omrah
Wednesday last week, together with the eleventh Aus-
tralian XI. English cricketing opinion concerning
Maclaren’s combination was quite borne out by results.
Australia hasn’t been so weak in cricket for a decade or
more past, and still the visiting side went under in four
tests out of five, and two first class (eleven aside) matches
saw them beaten in six. Visitors had all the luck
excepting in the loss of Barnes’ services, which was
serious, but Maclaren was most to blame for this, as he
bowled the very soul out of his crack in the early portion
of the tour and saw him quit the field each time limp and
completely done. Englishmen proved away above any-
thing seen here for many a day at fielding. Jessop on the
off was a revelation. Braund, Maclaren and Jones in the
slips were well nigh impregnable. Quaife, at cover point
and third man, and Tyldesley, out in “ the country,"
earned high praise always. Biggest failures of the person-
nel were Jessop and Jones whom the fast wickets beat
badly ; ditto Quaife to an extent. The Englishmen’s 769
against N.S.W. was a remarkable feat, and is in front
of anything previously done by old country reps, opposing
Australia.
* * * *
Rounds in all grades of Sydney cricket ended
Saturday. Recent rains “ queered ” several wickets. As
anticipated, Sydney and Leichhardt-Balmain are left to
decide absolute supremacy. Waverley went under to
North Sydney for 45, and, following on, lost 8 for 105.
Usually brilliant Charlie Gregory only notched one in his
two innings, clean bowled by aboriginal Marsh each time,
the first for a “duck.” Paddington men were got rid of
by Leichhardt-Balmain for 132, and latter subsequently
only scored 68, but, owing to big lead of previous
week, secured the palm. Sides that batted on the
previous Saturday had a distinct advantage. Leich-
hardt-Balmain (259) were particularly lucky in this
respect. Winning (58 not out), for Paddington,
saw nine wickets down, and F. Gow accumulated
48 before being run out. Winning only got his
place in first eleven when two-thirds of the season
had passed, and in three efforts has compiled 80, 23
(not out) and 58 (not out), or 161 for once out. Marsh
shaped capitally for Sydney, getting 4 for 24, and 3 for 26,
bringing his season’s bag to 54 for 532—average 9.84, a
remarkable achievement. Glebe hit up 374 in opposition
to Redfern, and won with 250 to the good. Grounds (for
Glebe) made the only century—l42—of the day. Duggan
(also in Glebe’s interests) was not out with a total of 86.
North Sydney’s 239 was too much for Burwood, who
finished 34 behind. Bowlers Kelk, Kermode and Hogue
(Trustees’ team) made a sad mess of Cumberland’s
wickets, which totalled 106. The Trustees eleven scored
297 for 5 wickets in first attempt (innings closed), and at
second try had 5 down for 39. A feature of Saturday’s
second-grade competition was Allen’s (for Waverley) feat
of securing 9 Sydney wickets for 30 ; the tenth man was
run out.
• • • •
Fred Lane didn’t line up at N.S.W. 100yds.
swimming supremacy, though a contributor to another
portion of the show. Apparently “ Freddv,” below his
best perhaps, didn’t care to bump Balmain crack Bob
Craig, who, a month or so since, showed him the way
over the greater part of the furlong State championship.
Explanation advanced was that Lane wanted to give his
club-chum, Healy, a chance. Transparent bunkum !
Only a week before Craig beat Healy over the same dis-
tance. Saturday’s struggle went to Craig, who won in
lmin. 2 l-ssec. Healy led more than half the journey,
but failed to sustain the effort long enough ; besides,
Craig turned better. Margin between them at the end
was a couple of yards more than Craig’s clear length.
Healy will make it hot for the absolute best next season.
Unlike Australia’s other champs., he works all day, and
doesn’t get a chance to properly train himself. Lane
Cavill, Read and co. do little but swim and lie round the
bath platform week in and week out.
* • * *
At Brisbane carnival Saturday, Australasian
champion Dick Cavill won the “ hundred ” supremacy of
Bananaland in 1.3 with local crack Gailey only .(sec.
behind. Cavill'put a gap of 30yds. between himself and
Gailey for the “ Quarter ” premiership, done in 5.55 2-5.
» * * *
Final of Victorian bowling pennant went to
M.C.C. team after the hottest struggle recorded. West
Melbourne was left to fight the final. Third end
totals showed “ 10 all.” Fifteenth head gave M.C.C. an
advantage of 5, but five ends further West Melbourne was
just 1 best. Then things waxed torrid, and competitors
brought all they knew to bear. Second last end (24th)
saw them “ 80 all.” When three rinks of each side had
finished playing, two fours were still going, having a
couple of heads to decide. Scores were equal. Interest
was intensely keen, and crowds rushed the green to get a
better view, but the umpire stopped play till all cleared
off. M.C.C. got a couple in, and, tackling the last head,
West Melbourne wanted 3 to win, but had hard luck in
the effort to get them, and M.C.C. succeeded the second
time in succession and third in all.
* • * *
Only the enthusiasm of Mr. C. 8. Guest and a
few other grafters keeps once famous “Oxboro” meet
still on the list. Local interest is dead, and Sydney only
is looked to for the bulk of support. On Saturday, finishes,
on the whole, were close. Not a single first choice got
home. Hardness of the track caused several eliminations,
and probably broke up some triers, The crowd wasn’t
extra good, though possibly a paying one. The lunch
was literally chucked at one in a regular rough-up-picnic
fashion, and had to be scrambled for. Hawkesbury
Autumn Handicap, once among the biggest N.S.W.
racing fixtures, only induced eight mediocre starters.
Mo., as usual, cramped the odds, so that often there
wasn’t above a point difference between three or four of
the fancied, but comparative and rank outsiders succeed-
ing mostly caused much Hebrew lamentation for not
having stood the public “ picks ” a bit more.
* * » *
Westralian Enfilade-Melodise 4-year-old nag
Warrior 11. made a one-horse thing of Hawkesbury Han-
dicap (ljm. 100yds.), Saturday. Waster Ace of Diamonds
humped a barrel of money at “ evens,” but could get no
nearer than third, eight or nine lengths behind the
winner, who finished as he liked. Warrior 11. had many
backers for the plums of Randwick, Caulfield and Flem-
ington Spring meetings, but—something went wrong.
He’ll be worth watching now, by the way he ran and won,
Saturday. He made the rest look hacks, His 7.7 in Don-
caster mile, this Saturday, and 7.4 in Sydney Cup—with
no penalties to tack on—shouldn’t trouble him much.
Stable was evidently as far astray as the public,’for they
didn’t come at him at all heavily ; the nag started at
S’s. Warrior’s last previous win was W.A. Derby, Decem-
ber, two years ago.
* • * »
Two absolutely unbacked nags (Clangour and
Skene Dhu) ran first and second in Hawkesbury Welter,
Saturday. Favorite Wollogorang (6 to 4 against) filled
third place, though he should have won well, but for
jock L. Want’s tactics in twice trying to get through a
compact mass of prads instead of going round them.
Skene Dhu made the running, and was only just pipped
on the post; he had a novice rider up—young Stanley,
son of old-time jock Stanley of The Barb fame. Stanley
got away well and deserved better luck. The Wollogorang
people thought their nag couldn’t lose, and their judg-
ment (bar the rider’s mistakes) was good.
Finish of Hawkesbury Park Stakes was in the
highest degree exciting. Until the judge showed the
numbers, not even men near a line with the winning-post
could say which of three had won. Trencherman snapped
the money with Olivia second and Beesting third.
Trencherman is a racehorse through and through, appar-
ently. He is by Trenchant from Kearro, by Grandmaster
from Cameo by Kingston (imp.) and was bred by present
owner, Mr. W. A. Gardiner. Kearro was among Ducken
field Park stud.
* ft * *
Randwick trainer-owner Wootton’s Acetine
looks threatening for this Randwick meeting. His win
of Hawkesbury Clarendon H’cap was full of merit. Stable
put a heap of money on him commencing with tens,
eights and sevens. Craze for Ferryman provided the
market as he went out at odds on in most places.
Acetine’s running created the impression that he’d see
another furlong (mile) out strongly, and with only 7.8 to
carry must have a chance in the Doncaster. Ferryman
wasn’t placed.
♦ * * •
No big “ commish ” had been worked on Sydney
Cup up to settling Monday last when Blue Metal was
nominal favorite ; both he and Caledonia have come on
a heap lately and the recent big Melbourne double —New-
market and Australian Cup—may be repeated at Rand-
wick this Saturday and Easter Monday. Sir Foote is an
unknown quantity at 2m. but some interested have two
admittedly high classed ones to depend upon in Beanba
and Industrious, a 4yr. old sister to Gaulus, The Grafter,
etc. Beanba has developed into a splendid mare. Punters
had better wait for the Doncaster stable lead before dis-
cussing the Cup prospectsof any one of thetrio. Patronage
is much fancied 1 • c the public, and is shaping well at work,
but 8.5 brings h :n closer to the top-mark than when San
Fran gave him 251 b. in the Metrop. and just thrust his
neck in front at the right end Patronage, however, will
he going strong when a lot of them are stopping.
Hawkesbury running of Warrior 11. gives him an unques-
tionable chance if he can repeat it, while Caleconia’s
showing at Moorefield, a fortnight ago, which could have
been improved considerably, brings him well within
reckoning. Earnshaw’s choice (Sir Foote, Industrious, or
Beanba) Blue Metal, Caledonia, Patronage, and Reviver
may provide the placed horses, with Patronage or Blue
Metal first, though writer must confess a strong leaning
towards Caledonia, but for a doubt about him seeing the
two miles out.
♦»* * •
Form and work point indubitably to Sir Foote
being the best of goods for the Doncaster, and this scribe
wouldn’t be a bit surprised to see him start, almost as hot
a pot as he did for the Newmarket. Purser’s prospects,
in view of his recent convincing defeat of a good lot at
Moorefield, are not to be ignored, provided he is one for
the money ; and then there’s Essington—said to be doing
capital work, and whom cute people have been nibbling
at for weeks past. One of those three should win, bar
the possibility of Warrior 11. chipping in—he was con-
sidered a champion in W.A., and Lamond evidently has
him very well just now.
* * * •
At the moment Sir Foote is hot favorite for
Doncaster Handicap—fives is the best available price ;
fours only in most places. On Sir F.’s Newmarket
running, the race looks good for him, but there’s not a
cent of stable coin in sight so far, though the public have
been biting at the choice thing for some days. Anything
over current odds is always snapped. The ’Ome nag has
a job on that has been successfully tackled but three
times in 22 years. Only prads to hump over 9st. first past
the post were Ben Bolt (9.5), Marvel (10.4), and Courallie
(9.3). Ben Bolt was a six-year, and Marvel and Courallie
five-year-olds. Courallie had just previously given
Maluma a stone and run up to her in the Newmarket.
Russley, as a six-year-old, appropriated the Doncaster
with 9st. The biggest burden ever carried by a three-
year-old was Sir William’s 8.6.
• * • *
Inter-State Invitation Sculls (about l.fm.), at
Sydney St. Ignatius College regatta, Saturday, saw Tas-
manian J. Bourke (10.12) 10sec., and Australian J. Daley
(lOst.) scratch, row a special event. Bourke commenced
very slowly, but, half-mile from the start, was still 7sec.
to the good (despite Daley having anticipated “ go”), and
much further on had the same advantage, when two or
three professional scullers hampered his progress badly,
thus allowing Daley to get up within 1£ lengths. Pace
now was equal, but Bourke’s erratic steering lost much
for him. Knowing the water well, Daley made the most
of a little tide here and went to the front by two lengths,
which Bourke brought down to barely one at the finish.
Time (10.42) shows 6.4 for the mile. Daley had it all-on
the whole way, and would probably have been licked but
for Bourke’s ill luck. Beaten sculler is only a youngster
yet (years younger than Daley), and with maturity and
good coaching will improve. ,
* » » •
At S. A. champion fours on Port River Satur-
day, Mercantile, Port, and Adelaide crews made things
sultry over the full course. Adelaide scored—lJ lengths
better than Port, with Mercantile I£ lengths further
away third. Victorian 8-oar supremacy same day was a
row-over for Albert Park through incapacitation of
Mercantile’s stroke and No. 2.
* « * *
Melbourne and Sydney “ feddera”—O’Neill and
James—bruised violently at Sydney Golden Gate A.C.,
Saturday night, to a huge house. At first, James, less
clever but more forceful, promised best; later, O'Neill
apparently owned the situation, till the aspect changed
and it was anybody’s fight. Betting fluctuated wildly
with fortune. James kept as cool as an iced cucumber,
and thumped away methodically. O’Neill was not at
ease, though his left worked cleverly and he took a
thumping that would have made an iron man wince, and
still came up gamely for more, which James supplied
liberally when the rather scarce openings allowed. James
attacked the ribs, till a big red splurge spread on both
sides. O’Neill was winning sure in the 13th round when
James’ hard head crashed against the Melbourne man’s
eyebrow and gashed it. Then the job proved softer, and
a right on the point settled things. James fouled once
by throwing his opponent, but the referee didn’t indicate
that he had seen the flagrant breach. Winner is a real
instinctive fighter who’ll slug-out a few when he knows
the game better.
* * • *
Lightweight bruisers Barr and Turner supplied
a skin shifting struggle at Sydney Gaiety last week. For
20 rounds, it was the bitterest and most determined thing
in fist-fighting seen for years. Barr’s elbow blinded
Turner’s right eye in the second round, and had him par-
tially dazed for the next four or five, during which he
stood a stiff gruelling. Thenceforth the battle was
fairly evenly fought, though Turner steadily wiped
out Pother’s early advantage, and had him anyhow at
times, near the end. Referee “Bill” Jennings called it a
draw, but Turner really won.
* * * *
Sydney Forest Lodge pony races developed
something out of the ordinary last Monday. Kitty B. (9.7)
and Manalea (8.5) finished a dead-heat in 14-hands handi-
cap. Running off, Manalea went out 7to 4 on, and the
same result occurred. After a spell the two got toge-
ther a third time, with Manalea 2 to 1 on now, and they
still couldn’t be separated. Owners wouldn’t agree to a
division, consequently the little ’uns will have another
cut at the club’s next meeting. Honors are undoubtedly
with Kitty 8., for she gave away not only 161b5., but ljin.
in height.
* * * «
Retired champion boxer “Larry” Foley and
Federal Prime Minister “Toby” Barton were the features
of the St. Patrick’s Day gathering on Sydney Agricul-
tural Society’s ground. “Toby” (at dinner) attributed
the success of the function to the “ tact and good fellow-
ship of an old friend and a formidable Irish champion,
Mr. Laurence Foley.” “Toby” and “Larry” strolled
arm-in-arm about the grounds, and when they were
driving away, cheers for “ Toby ” were absolutely stifled
by the roar that rent the-air for “ Larry.” This scribe is
tipping Foley as a “ sure thing ” for Parliament whenever
he likes to put up in the Conservative and bruising
interests.
* * * *
On consideration, George Adams’ plan of saving
his sweeps by getting customers to send their letters
addressed to themselves, care of Hobart Stock Exchange,
doesn’t look as if it would work. It would leave Adams
at the mercy of any police agent or reverend foe ; Jabez
Smith, for instance, might send a registered letter to
“ Jabez Smith, c/o Sec., Hobart Stock Exchange,” and if
it were opened (as it would be) prosecute for theft of the
letter.
» * * *
“Via”: “Tattersall’s” latest scheme for cir-
cumventing the Federal embargo contains a fatal weak-
ness. “Tatt.” asks that an order to collect amounts
and transact biz. generally be sent down to Tasmania
with the remittance. Doesn’t he know that that order
will be impounded by the P.O. officials the first time
“Tatt’s” representative hands it in at Hobart Post-
office ? After that he will be unable to collect money-
orders. This is according to P.O. regulations, and Drake
and Co. will see that the rule isn't dodged. I see that he
is said to have given the originator of his plan £lOOO.
Would to heaven I had known of this. I could put him
on to something simpler for half the price, but it’s pro-
bably too late now.
* • • *
The attitude of Postmaster-General Drake in
refusing to even consider the question of stopping letters
addressed to advertising bookmakers, turf-tipsters and
other sporting parasites, whilst relentlessly crushing out
“Tattersall’s” fair gamble, suggests the idea that Mo.
must have some very good friends in the Federal Cabinet.
The sense of fair play in the community should now sug-
gest the appointment of a vigilance committee to watch
the “ cigar”-shops of the big bookmakers —who are at the
bottom of the agitation against “Tatts.” —and see that
they have dealt put to them some of the suppression
sauce. Let their correspondence be confiscated by the
post office “in the interests of morality.” The present
position is that the fair gamble has been knocked out in
the interests of the unfair gamble, and the Federal
Government is acting as if it were in league with the
“ crooks ” of sport to prevent the gambling public getting
a fair deal for its money.
• * • •
The racing libel action, Castles v. Brisbane
Courier and Observer (decided in favor of defendants)
caused much foul linen to be aired. The cause of action
was the newspaper’s comments on certain doings at a
little soup-plate 500yds. course at Woolloongabba, Bris-
bane ; the “ racing” 'was such that even the dull Courier
lashed out. Half-a-dozen witnesses swore that they “ flew
the pigeon,” fixed the starter, weighed in and out 2st.
light, etc., etc. It was all a game of points. Altogether
there was such a picturesque exposition on oath of the
sport of things as should convince the most foolish of
mugs to give up punting.
• » * *
The totalisator again. At Port Adelaide
meeting the St. Pat.’s Handicap paid a div. of £96 13s. ;
and this although the two-div. system was being tried,
and backers of the second got £4 7s. for their pound as
well. (Cuba, the winner, would have paid nearly £l3O
on the single div. plan). Also the club had secured in
tote commission about £88 —more than the value of the
the stake ! Likewise there was a trifle left over in the
shape of “ fractions ” for local charities.
* * * *
Geo. Giffen passed his 41st year this week ; he
was born 27th March, 1861. His greatest bowling feat ot
the present season was the capture of 13 wickets for 9!
runs in the first match of Maclaren’s team against S.A.
His batting average in first-class matches for this year is
24T6, and his bowling average 19'23. Giffen is not yet
convinced that his da vs of cricket are over.
• * • *
Arnold Collins, while playing cricket recently
for the Imperial United Club (what a name 1) in South
Australia, took six wickets in one over.
* • * m
Oswald T. Caust, who scored 99 not out against
the Englishmen at Broken Hill, is 29 years of age, but
has been playing cricket since early boyhood. He hails
from South Australia, where he was for years a local
champion ; he on one occasion was first emergency in an
inter-State match, but never had a chance. His record
this season, in senior matches alone, is : —l2 innings, 6
not outs, 1056 runs. He this season twice scored 200,
each time not out, and seven times went over the century.
It is not always the lodger who disturbs
matrimonial bliss in Australia. In the Mertel v.
Mertel case (Sydney) the wife alleged cruelty and
in reply respondent alleged :
He gave her a ’possum as a pet, and she would never
leave it alone. She used to take it to bed. He objected
and the quarrel took place about the ’possum, lie
admitted pinching his wife’s nose once during a quarrel
about the ’possum, but he did not do it in a brutal way
He admitted he was unkind to the ’possum. But he did
not do away with it, because it was the only thing his
wife was fond of. Quarrels did take place between him-
self and his wife, but they were owing to her having
neglected the baby and her domestic duties.
The court held that if the husband hadn’t been •
unkind to the ’possum he had been more unkind
to his wife than jealousy of the ’possum warranted,
and granted a divorce.
“The organised day laborers” of the
State of N.S. W. held a demonstration the other
day. The O’Sullivan was, of course, there, and in
response to a toast:
He had been asked whether, if he built a house, he
would do it by day labor. He would—cheers—if ever he
had the means and they would start him with the
necessary land.
Seeing that Mr. O’Sullivan has already had one
handsome testimonial from a class whose wages he
increased, and that the organised day laborers,
whose wages he has also increased, might take bis
hint about giving him a valuable present seriously,
is The O’S. quite judicious in making jokes of this
sort — The Bulletin presumes it is a joke?
Sydney D.T.’s religious reporter on the
farewell church-service to the last N.S.W. batch
of five-bob-a-day’s :
Whether from the effect of the long walk down or the
cramped position in the pews, the men behaved some-
what badly during the service. They left their places
in two and threes during hymns, prayers or lessons—it
did not seem to matter, and no one attempted to stop
the wholesale exit. Some came back during the sermon,
some during prayers, and some not at all. Surely this
sort of thing ought not to be allowed.
But, after all, didn’t the uneasy, impatient Cohen-
tingenters have a truer idea of the situation than
the censorious reporter ? They were hired to
burn down farms and hunt children into concen-
tration camps ; and what has the Christian God’s
blessing to do with that work ?
OUR OH YACK: AN INTERVIEW.
(Fob the Bulletin.)
Said the saintlet who commanded
The team from Up Above :
“ O, Australia’s not too stinkin’,
We look on it with love,
And you’ve treated our Eleven
A 1 concerning ‘ gates ’;
The attendances were splendid—
We really like the States.
“ There’s one thing I’d like to mention
Before we pack and sail
’Way back to dear ’Old Heaven,
Aboard the Orient mail, —
We’ve had just one big grievance
That’s hung on us like lead :
Tho’ we bravely faced your bowling
Your Chyack killed us dead 1
“ Poor Gabriel suffered awful,
And Raphael was as bad ;
St. Michael’s been prostrated
Since that first match, poor lad 1
Er —yes, we love Australia
Except for your Ohyack. . . .
What ? No, I fear we’ll never
Come back ! Come back !! Come back Ml”
GRANT HERVEY.
Acting Like Magic.
Indigestion and Kidney Troubles Cured—
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills Create a
Sensation.
When the doctor leaves, and says the case is
hopeless, what remains to
be done? Nothing, if
the doctor’s word is final.
Much, if you will listen
to men and women who
were once “ hopeless
cases” given up by
doctors, and who were per-
fectly and permanently
cured by the use of Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
This is the strong and
reliable evidence of Mr.
J. A. Anderson, who
resides at 193 Kent-street,
Sydney. The facts are
well worthy of publica-
tion, for they have the
ring of truth so clear and
positive as to be unmis-
takable. “I have been
a great sufferer from
indigestion and kidney
troubles. In fact, my
case was so bad that I was
compelled to remain in the
hospital for four weeks. And previous to this I
consulted many doctors, and tried many remedies,
but nothing did effect a cure. I saw Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills advertised in a paper, and as a
last resort decided to give them a trial. The
change they effected was remarkable ; they restored
me to health and strength when other so-called
remedies had failed. I can and do recommend
them as being a medicine without equal, and,
furthermore, believe they will do all that is claimed
for them. You are at liberty to use my testimonial
as you think fit, and I shall always take pleasure
in recommending Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
to my friends as an honest medicine —one that
will do all that is claimed for it.” Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills are a perfect blood purifier, and a
positive cure for biliousness, indigestion, constipa-
tion, headaches, sallow complexion, liverand kidney
troubles, piles, pimples, boils and blotches, and
for female ailments. Sold by chemists and
storekeepers, Is. l|d per bottle, or six bottles
6s. 6d. Sole proprietors, The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd. (Australasian Depot) 58 Pitt-street,
Sydney. Packed in amber bottles, and the full
name blown thereon.


sg
QHATELAIIME BAGS
... in Assorted Leather
HALL-MARKED SILVER MOUNTS.
7/6, 10/6, 13/6, 15/-, 17 6 to 425.
ALL GOODS SENT POST FREE.
THE MODERN ART JEWELLERY CO.
187 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Sydney Agricultural Show.
V the latest models of the famous
Massey-Harris Bicycle
WILL BE ON VIEW AT THE MASSEY-HARRIS STAND.
Call at our Stand and procure our New Booklet.
CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR CO., LTD.
Massey-Harris Bicycle Department.
357 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
'r±
We have won success, and stand right ahead as the
leading distributors of Milk, Butter, and other foods*
We can give you better service, better goods, and
greater satisfaction than others.
To have won Success
CfteUlW. ««
Tmb food $ T«
£O. Etd., Sydney.
IS TO MERIT IT.
Please send for Illustrated Booklet, which explains
our system in interesting detail*
OIL LAUNCHES BUILT TO ORDER.
20ft. to 80ft. overall.
Bllla
jr. t.
“KING” and “SINTZ” ENGINES, V/ 2 to 100 h.p.—1902 Models.
McDBRMOXX & COMPA.N
Factory Agents, 37 MARKET STREET,
SYDNTBY.
Telephone 2671.
G. BRANDAUER & Go.’s (Ltd.)
CIRCULAR=POINTED PENS
Se ren Prize Medals Awarded.
Neither scratch nor
spurt, the points
being rounded by a
new process.
Attention is a 'so
drawn to their new
“CRADUATED
SERIES OF
PENS.”
dsg
seh
Each pattern being made in ,/irur degrees of flexibility and Points.
Works: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND.
Ask your Storekeeper for an Assorted Sample Sox of either series.
m
RUPTURE CURED, TWO GUINEAS.
Thousands have been Cured at their own homes for this small price. Greatest Inven
tion of the Aire. Established over a QUARTER OF A CENTURY. Known around
the World. Security and Comfort to the Ruptured. Different from all others. It
does the work ! Investigate! “ Booklet No. 1,” giving full information, will be sent
for a 2d. stamp. Address :
MAGNETIC ELASTIC TRUSS COMPANY, San Francisco or New York, U.S.A.
Australia—W. H. Soul & Co., 160 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Sentence of death passed by Westralian
Chief Justice on Donald M‘Kay, William Cullen,
and John Campbell, for being concerned in the
death of a man named Grey, was a clear contempt
of jury. The jury’s verdict was—
We find Donald M‘Kay guilty of murder, and William
Oullen and John Campbell guilty of aiding and abetting,
with a strong recommendation to mercy. ... In the
interests of justice we have agreed to a verdict of murder,
but we hope that the full extent of the law will not be
carried out, because we do not believe that the prisoners
intended to murder John Gray.
Yet the Judge sentenced all to death, and 1 ‘ held out
no hope of mercy” to M‘Kay. The three ruffians all
deserve exemplary punishment, but, if the Jedge’s
verdict is followed by an execution, the inevitable
result will be that in the next half-dozen or so
fatal push outrages the jury will (sensibly enough)
resolutely refuse to convict at all, and a score of
scoundrels be redeemed by the hanging of one.
The Bullltin doesn’t believe in vicarious punish-
ment of that sort. No evil results seem to have
followed the present N.S.W. Government’s policy
of never hanging a man who has been recom-
mended to mercy. Certainty, not ferocious
severity of punishment—that is society’s goal.
Melb. Age cable-faking takes the palm
among Australian fact-twisters. Speaking of some
angry politics in the English House of Commons,
the Age put up the heading, “Insult to Mr.
Chamberlain,” and went on to state that the
Joss of the Cohen-jingoes had called Irishman
Dillon “a good Judge of traitors,” —after which
Dillon’s declaration that Judas was “a ———
liar,” was surely not the most unexpected thing in
the world ! You can hang a man for being a
traitor, but he can’t be strung - up for
plain lying, so Chamberlain’s provocative
remark was by far the more insulting of the two.
Einally, the Age states that Nationalist leader
Redmond “ had much difficulty in restraining his
48 followers from language and conduct that would
have provoked their general suspension.” How
on earth could anyone tell what sort of language
and conduct they were going to employ ?
“ SHARPSHOOTING
For Sport and War”
ds
By W. W. GREENER.
Hits the Mark!
1/- NETT.
Empire—if you are one of those who will
rally round the old flag—read this book.
It teaches all about Rifles and Rifle
Shooting, how to aim and make allowance,
&c., and it contains chapters on Ranges
and Rifle Clubs, with a history of the part
played by the Armed Civilian in the past.
The Best Shilling’s Worth ever Published!
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations for 1/- nett.
Of all Booksellers, or C.W. Buckland, Agent
for W. W. Greener, 317 Collins St., MELB.
TT'OR the person who is riot a miilionaire, there is ONLY
J- ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY-
That i@ “Ellis’ King: Street Coffee Palaoe.” "Wf
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office, Praprielor—dm. W, ELLIS,
GENERAL
ELECTRIC
COMPANY.
Capital - - - £5,250,000.
Manufactures the Highest Grade of
Electrical Machinery.
THEIR NAME IS A GUARANTEE.
Dynamos, Engines and Motors up to 250 H.P. in Stock.
Lighting and Power Plants for Immediate Delivery.
Arc and Incandescent Lamps and Supplies of all kinds.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC GO.,
Electrical Engineers and Contractors,
SOLE REPRESENTATIVES.
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, Melbourne and Sydney.
I
YOU GLIDE ALONG
without JNOISE
and VIBRATION
When
Dunlop-Kelly
Solid
Rubber
ARE FITTED TO YOUR VEHICLE.
They will outlast two sets of any other Rubber
Vehicle Tyre—lasting years on a private con-
veyance. They are wired on by an _ electric
process—that renders coming off an impossi-
bility.
They will double the life of your trap—and also
the enjoyment of driving.
Send Tor Catalogue and Price List.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Aus., Ltd.
150 Clarence Street, Sydney.
And at
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, BRISBANE, and CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.


A Sydney street scene : Sunday evening,
about the hour when people maunder off to chapel
—and other places. A policeman came down and
snared a disreputable dog. He then asked the
bystanders for a piece of string, but without
success. So he proceeded to drag the mangy
animal away on its hind legs. At this stage a
woman with compunctions produced from among
her clothes about four feet of red tape ! She in-
quired where “the poor creature” was to be
dragged, and the law explained that it was only a
stone’s throw to a dark alley, where the animal
would be bashed to death with the baton, and its
remains would be called for later by the dust
gentleman.
“APENTA.” 3
The Best Natural Aperient Water.
A Specific
For The Certain Relief Of
HABITUAL and OBSTINATE CONSTIPATION and in
DISORDERS of the LIVER and BILIOUS ATTACKS.
Sydney Telegraph :—
With regard to the licensing laws, the most urgent
requirement is to have the law administered more closely
in accordance with the public desire than it appears to be
at present, and this important phase seems to have been
touched by the Rev. W. G. Taylor in his “ protest against
a Minister of the Crown going into Licensing Courts to
plead for licenses.” Without suggesting that magis-
trates are influenced in their decisions by the Ministerial
advocate, etc.
But some magistrates certainly are influenced.
A.nd if the Telegraph doesn’t suggest that they
are influenced then what does it suggest ? And if
it doesn’t suggest anything then the public wants
its penny back.
The loud curse of “M.B.” :—
Your women’s column scribe writes (referring to sur-
geon Fitzgerald) : “And as he is very fond of dogs he
must be a good sort.” I presume the hygienic, well-
groomed, flealess brute is meant. Not the ill-fed, mangy,
ring-wormed, unfortunate middle-class and working-man
dog, the whelp that father buys to be a companion to
the children, the our with the sore eyes and warty hide,
the neglected pup that never gets washed, the leprous-
looking animal that disseminates ringworm, and is for
ever nosing after a flea that never gets caught, the
member of the utterly useless battalion of dogs that live
on garbage, kill fowls, chase goats, infest shop-fronts,
snap and bite the butcher and baker at the back door,
bark all night long and fight most of the day. Can’t a
man be a “good sort” if he isn’t fond of dogs?
More trouble about the baby that is paid
for before delivery. A pushing girl at Ballarat
(Vic ) secured an order for £10 pre-maternity ex’s
from a Creswick miner, and then set cheerfully
to work to hire, beg, or borrow a baby. The baby
having been secured by means of an advt., the
young woman wrote to the miner telling him to
call round and admire his offspring, and to bring
along the £10. The police have worked the
matter out to the above effect. The girl admits
that the baby was borrowed for the occasion,
yet a local doctor is ready to swear that when
the maternity order was secured, a few weeks
ago, it was evident that she —if she was the same
girl—would not be reduced to going in debt for a
baby. This, the dailies say, is a most singular
feature of the case, and it certainly looks as
singular as anybody could expect.
A couple of big farm-burners—one much
the worse of liquor—were sprawling on the grass
with a couple of girls at a recent military shivoo,
and the more sober of the two was thrilling the
damsels—apparently sisters of the comatose one—
with descriptions of their experiences at the front.
“They never bury ’em properly out there,” he
remarked. “ One day we come into Whitlefon-
tein, an’ I sees a feller’s leg stickin’ up through
the veldt an’ Alf. sez ter me, ‘ Why, blime, if that
ain’t big Thomson’s foot. I’d swear ter it any-
wheres’—an’, strike me stiff, so it was. He’s
mighty smart at recognisin’ things is Alf. Poor
old Thommy was topped off in the scrap a couple
er weeks afore. Then over near Bruikspit’s farm
we seen a heap er them with arms an’ heads outer
the ground. Alf. knew two of the heads at once.
I tell yer, Alf.’s got brains. There ain’t no £4 10s.
funerals over there. Yer got ter take what they
give yer, an’ mighty lucky if yer git that. But
Alf.,” he added admiringly, glancing at the
snoring form of the other, “ t hey ain’t no better
feller than Alf ever potted a Boer. I never want
no better mate than what Alf. is. Hey ! you
there ! ” this to a harmless-looking youth who had
approached the prostrate form;_ “yOu leave him
alone! Anyone as touches him touches me!
See!” The youth edged off. “ Yer don’t stand
no nonsense when yer’ve been on the veldt for a
bit. It’s shut up, or make ’em shut up.” He
entered into a long story descriptive of the
heroism of himself and Alf. “‘And take that,’
says Alf, an’ he ups with his rifle and drops the
Boer. Then another of ’em comes at me, an’ Alf.
fetches him down with the butt of his rifle. I tell
yer I’d do anything for Alf. If he was ter git
topped off d’ye know what I’d do. I’d just grab my
rifle an’ put a bullet in my head, I would s’welp me.
That’s what I’d do.” One of the girls coughed.
An old man with a grey beard was placidly puffing
his pipe in the line of the breeze three yards in
front. “Hi, there!” cried Alf.’s eulogist, “put
out that pipe. Ye’re blowin’ the smoke on Alf.”
There was no answer. “ D’ye hear? Put out that
pipe an’ put it out quickanlively, an’ get away
from Alf.” The smoker turned—he was sixty if
he was a day : “ You come here an’ put it out,” he
ordered. “ It’s all right ! it’s all right!” cried the
cohentingenter, “I wasn’t speaking ter you, ole
man. I was talkin’ ter Alf. ”
Martin’s Apiol and Steel Pills are sold by-
all chemists throughout Australasia, price 4s. 6d.
Agents: Sayers, Allport, and Potter, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor, W. Martin, Pharmaceutical
Chemist, Southampton, England.*
DRUNKENNESS,
Ofy THE LIQUOR HABIT POSITIVELY CURED
BY ADMINISTERING
BTJCR A.S Y.
It can be given secretly or otherwise In tea, coffee, or
food, and is the only remedy which can be taken at
home with certainty of success.
A REPORT.—After the first dose he was a different
man. Newcastle, N.S.VV. —Dear Sir, —My husband
has been taking Eucrasy regularly for five days, with the
result that it has taken away the desire for drink of any
kind ; in fact, after the first dose he seemed a different
man. (Signed) K.E.R.
Write for book and testimonials from living witnesses ;
sent (sealed) Free. Address :
THE EUCRASY CO.,
62 HUNTER-ST, SYDNEY.
N.Z. Agency : ROBERT REW, Victoria-st., Auckland.
LADIES >-
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address— 3oo Collins St. r Melbourne
A POLICY FOR THE
Price 6d.;
Posted, Bd.
COMMONWEALTH*
PHOSFERINE
The Greatest of all Tonics.
Phosferine is the most powerful Nerve and Recuperative
Tonic known. It removes Mental Depression, want of Tone and
Nerve Power. It has remarkable Health-giving, Strength-giving,
Energising, and Rejuvenating properties.
No other Medicine has received such absolute proof of its
extraordinary properties in restoring Shattered Constitutions, and
in giving back to the prematurely aged New Life and Energy.
It is an unfailing remedy for Neuralgia, Nervous Dys-
pepsia, Anaemia, Brain-Fag, Depression, Impoverished Blood,
Rheumatism, Sleeplessness, Indigestion, Influenza, Nervous
Mead aches, Debility, and all disorders consequent upon a
reduced state of the nervous system.
ROYAL COMMANDS.
Pliosferine enjoys the distinguished honour of having been supplied by commands to
MEMBERS OF THE BRITISH ROYAL FAMILY.
H.I.M. tlie Empress of Russia.
H.M. the King of Greece.
H.M. the Queen of Roumania.
H.I.M. the Dowager Empress of Russia.
H. S. H. the Hereditary Princess olßeiningen
Hrt h-i HH HH HH
H H W H H
I.H. the Grand Duchess Olga of Russia.
R.H. the Crown Princess of Rouruania.
I.H. the Grand Duchess Serge of Russia.
R.H. the Grand Duchess of Hesse.
I.H. the Grand Duchess Xenia of Russia.
And the principal Royalty and Aristocracy throughout the World.
No other Medicine has been awarded this unique distinction of Royal favor,
id it speaks volumes for the wonderful restorative properties of Phosferine.
CURES
Neuralgia,
Sciatica,
Lumbago,
Gout,
Rheumatism,
Impaired
Vitality,
Debility,
Brain Fag,
Weakness,
Nervous
Exhaustion,
Melancholia,
Impaired
Digestion, etc.
w
V
A
Vitalizing
i i '
Tonic,
Imparting
New Life
and
Energy
to the
Entire
System.
CAUTION.
GENUINE PHOSFERINE.
Ashton & Parsons, Ld., 17 Farringdon Road, London,
the original and only genuine makers of PHOSFERINE find it necessary to
put the public on their guard against mendacious imitations of their well-known
medicine that are being offered for the sake of extra profit.
It is necessary, when purchasing Phosferine, to see that it bears the name of
the genuine makers, viz. :
Ashton & Parsons, Ltd., 17 Farringdon Road, London
PREPARED IN THREE SIZES.
The Second Size contains nearly four times the Smallest Size.
The Genuine PhOSforine can be obtained from WashingtO/l H.
Soul & Co,, Pitt Street, Sydney, and all respectable Chemists.
Wholesale Agents: SAYERS, ALLY OUT A ROTTER, SYDJSEY.
MOIR’S
KIPPER PASTE,
In Tins about 2 ozs. and 4 ozs.
Manufacturers:
JOHN MOIR & SON, LIMITED,
LONDON ABERDEEN & SEVILLE.
Head Office I—9 & 10, Gt. Tower Street, London E.C.
PURVEYORS BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO HIS MAJESTY THE KING.
AN EFFICIENT
6/
FILM CAMERA
THE BROWNIE.
Not a toy. Takes splendid photographs,
2| by 2J inches. Complete with hand-
book of instructions.
KODAKS from 6s. to £8 18s.
OF ALL PHOTOGRAPHIC DEALERS, or from
KODAK, Limited & Reduced.
The Block, HBh Collins Street, Melbourne.
Send for illustrated price list and mention this
paper.
30 Days’ Trial.
gds
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
IiKLTS and
A I’i’LlA NCISS
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our“EI.tCU-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore Hie
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can he
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part. :
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing:, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
. TRADE MARK .
X
Fox Bros. & Co., Ltd., warn
the Public that their Trade
Mark consists
ONLY
of the word
FOX
which is a guarantee of sound-
ness of material and Quality
of Dye of all
Worsted Coatings,
Serges H Sweeds
on which it is stamped.
As the result of many years
of experience
pox’s ?ure Mgo Dye
is recognised as the best in the
market. All FOX'S standard
cloths are stamped every two
yards on the back
FOX
PURE INDIGO
and without this stamp are
not genuine. These celebrated
serges can be obtained from the
leading Tailors and Drapers
throughout the Colonies.
FOX BROS. & Co., Ltd.,
Wellington, Somerset, Eng.


CURED POWER.
Those Complaints can be Cured Quickly.
rr « “ent a s K p£re y
C°r.e al Debility, Enfeebled Constitutions, Functional Disorders,
vlricoceie ana General Disorders of Men. The Question of Sex
uor' noD interfere We treat and cure both sexes, privately and
speedily.
I
'
rmm
v
wMm
m
JACK WILLIS DECLARES.
What Electricity and Medicine does for Brain, Nerve and Muscle.
.... _ .-octnrntiup agent of great power in recreating healthy conditions in men and women,
ELECTRICITY and Medicine, the judicious use of which proves ® r ® Bt ®p®* f the Specialists of the Freeman and Wallace Electro-Medical and Surgical
t is amazing the medical faculty by its cures It has made the names. y sailed Specialists, is singularly successful in cases where disease arises
Institute famous over Australasia. It is proved Electric-Medication i supi nerve disorders. Where nerve force or animal magnetism is lacking, this
from structural changes of the great nervous centres, as in paraljsis, or oth system. The Specialists have attained this end in thousands of
new treatment restores. Once restored, new life is given il B, “nven
cases, and continue to brighten homes and lighten suffering y y
JACK WILLIS’ TESTIMONIAL.
Here is a portrait of Mr. Jack Willis, a
professional pugilist, whom we treated
prior to one of his great fights. We made a victor of him. He gratefully say*—
The Specialists, : i 92 Cleveland-street, Chippenddle
Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute. March - , ■
I derived much benefit from your Electro-Medical treatment, which helped me gr a
my training for my recent great fight with Joseph Dunn at j „ ut j t
press at the time stated I had never before appeared in such perfect condition. 1 pu i
down to the fact that I wore one of your Electric Invigorators during my training. At the
time I never felt better or stronger in my life. rs :„ ned i JACK WILLIS.
MR. BROWN’S TESTIMONY.
Mr Willis savs what Electricity and Medi-
cine does for the Muscle, Mr. Brown speaks
for the Brain and Nerve. As a professional musician, subject to intense thought-application,
he suffered from brain-fag. He says: ~ , .
“ Messrs. Freeman and Wallace. Fuller’s Empire Theatre Castlereagh-st.
“ I testify to the marvellous benefits obtained from y° ur f. e^r^f,; c e a i someTading pr™>
profession I find the system becomes often-tnnes unpaired. I had consumed‘ s?™®
titioners in Sydney before I saw you with no good result. An y° .« al ? s t 8 of your
brain-fag, or general decline of the nervous system should pay a vis t ■ p
Institute. pian i st (Signed) J. H. BROWN, August 12, 1901.”
This testimonial speaks for itself. If you are ill, what more do you want than the testimony of
a man cured i
EVERYONE ADOPTS THE SYSTEM.
BARRISTERS, Solicitors, Commercial Men, Boxers, Jockeys, representatives> ° f » u f
of the muscular and brainy cl isses adapt and adopt the new system. better
“ Electric Invisorator ” sold by the Institute, cannot be better. There is nothing
than the best As a renoyator in cases of general debility, enfeebled constitutions, brain-fag
or where the reproductive organs are injured or palsied, the powers of sensation or volition
departed, it is the surest and finest in the world.
The Curative System. Silver and Cold Invigorators.
T HE curative method by which the entire body isEndowed with health*md and *>y
T which disease is driven out of the system involves a course of n \ e 4“ me |, ®P e^ la P^ e Py
the Invigorators are “ electrically perfect.” There is no reason why you should pay more than
Silver-plated, £,l 10s Solid Silver, £3- Solid Cold (stamped), £.lO
rwsss m \SwW a aS h w o s. _
MR. J. F. BROWN WRITES.
Medicines Packed Free from Observation.
Letters Treated Privately and Answered Punctually.
rpjTTj BEST TREA.T MBINTT I3VT THE WORLD.
1)0 jour doctor. alw.js cure jou ?No 11! Td,
Lr£'p3bi.i“ e =7“°m.di^l ptXJS A” despair. 'lf jou 1,.,. a long-standing disease which bring, jou a vision ol the grave,
try the Specialists of the Institute. Electricity and medicine will cure you.
CR.BDB3NTTIA.LS OF INSTITUTE.
|||NE Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Regi stratio by
opinion
and
i high
Staff.
A Valuable Treatise.
The New Medical Work, “ Clinical Experiences,” published
bv the Institute, is a volume of rarest excellence and value.
J \ -11 1 . ‘i-U Icn -Pi-.il rvn onH
Its price is onlv One Slvlling in Stamps. It is 500 pages from cover to cover, illustrated with 150 full-pa£re and
half-page anatomical .blocks, showing the various parts of the human anatomy. It is readable, instructive, usetuL
It is a whole Library of Facts.
Marriage, Anatoh y. Fevers, Ague,
Electricity, Fractures, Burns and Sc
back-blocks. Send at once ; orders
Send for it if vou wish to be wise. It contains chapters on Love and
Snakebite and Cure, Restoring Apparently Browned, Invalids and Treatment,
.aids, Dropsy, Rheumatism, etc., etc. It is worth a pound a page to people in the
are closing rapidly.
FREEMAN & WALLACE
HOWARD FREEMAM, Director Electro-Medical Dept.; RICHARD WALLftCE I _Physician-in-Chief ;^^^^^^^^^
Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute,
Elizabeth & Bathurst Sts., Sydney.
Confidence
Economy
Satisfaction
These three words tell the story
why you should buy here. With
our six busy stores (Sydney,
Melbourne, Auckland, Perth,
Christchurch and Wellington)
we are able to save yOtt money
on anything in our line you
may want. Every taste and
every purse finds satisfaction
here.
Nellie Stewart Bracelet, with practically Invisible Joint and Catch.
Made'in three sizes, in 9c. and 15c. Gold We illustrate the middle
sizes. Prices—9c., £2 10s, £3 3s, £4 ; 15c., £3 7s 6d, £5, £7.
No. F 6105. Solid
Silver Chatelaine
Spectacle Case,£2 5s
No. F3s62.—Massive Solid Silver
Cabinet Photo Frame, 16s 6d.
No. E 946.— Solid Silver Shell Butter
Dish and Knife in Case, £1 ss.
No. 167. lfc. Gold,
Diamond and Ruby
Ring;, £2 ss.
No! 17.—15 c. Gold
Opal and Pearl Set
Scarf Pin, £1 10s.
No. 178.—18 c. Wed-
ding Bing, £1 15s.
Others, 21s, 255, 30s,
40s, 5Cs, 60s.
No. F3021.—9c. Gold
Pearl or Turquoise
Set Tie Clips, 14s 6d.
No. 36.—18 c. Gold and
5 diamonds Engage-
ment Ring, £5 ss; Dia-
mond & Ruby, £3 10s.
No. 198 A Gold
Links, 15s 6d.
Silver ditto, 4s.
No. 352 A Glass and
Silver-plated Cruet, with
Spoons. 10s. 6d.
«s=
No. F 6756.— Pretty Silver-
plated Child’s Cup. 6s. 6d
No. E9265.—501id Silver Shaving Brush
12s. 6d.
No. F 1759. —Solid Silver Cigar
Cutter. 6s. 6d.
fW\
z
C4L*m m
No. F6.3Silver-plated Toast Rack.
Six divisions. 18s. 6d.
No. FBB9-— Silver-plated Butter
Dish, with Knife. 9s. 6d.
No. F 563.— Silver-plated and Engraved
Sugar Scuttle. £1 ss.
No. F77B.—Silver-plated Clear Glass
Butter Dish. 12s. 6d.
g
WlB.—Satin-lined and Silver-plated Trinket
Box, £1 2s 6d.
No. E4lB2.—Silver-plated
Candlestick. 12s. 6d.
E5023.—9c. Gold Long Muff Chain, £3 15s.
No. EBo24.—Silver-
plated
Candlestick. 12s. 6d.
sfcY-ftn n n_n
SfcS
e>
No. F 976. —15c. Gold and Pearl Set Scroll Brooch,
£ll7s. 6d.
No. F 593. —15c. Gold and Fine Pearl New Moon and
Spray Brooch, £5 10s.
No. 015.—Specially Strong 9c. Gold Bar and Opal
Heart Brooch, £1 7s. 6d.
Nc. F4312.—15c. Gold and Fine Pearl New Moon
and Spray Brooch, £3 ss.
No. 109.—The Popular Bell Brooch, 9c. Gold,
12s. 6d.
SL,
M-F
a
.
No. F2691.—9c. Gold Strong Two Bar Brooch, 14s. 6d.
St
jt o —9c. Gold and Rose Diamond Set Brooch,
18s. 6d.
dsg
4/2 GEORGE SYDi\ify.


John Redmond, from his end of the world
declares opposition to the English Imperialism of
w y necessary condition of Irish patriotism.
, , O Sullivan from this end claims that not
only loyalty but Jingoism is the duty of every
Irishman. Who is right ? The National Review
by the way, recently stated that the Irish Aus-
trahan of a certam type is always at heart “dis-
iOT W ° ut reckons that he may as well be a
K.O.M.G-., a J.P., or take a billet as a policeman
troin the hated Sassenach before starting to wipe him
i . e le earth; and after he’s got one
billet or title there’s always another a shade better
ahead of him, and “loyalty” adopted as an ex-
pedient settles into a habit.
The Roman
Hair
Restorer
Produces Brown and Black Hair.
Price 1/6 ; by post, 2/3.
An inexpensive and
certain preparation for
renewing and restoring
"to its original color the
hair of the head, beard
and whiskers.
Largely used by the Roman ladies for preserving their
magnificent tresses. Nourishes the roots and removes
dandruff ; increases the quantity, and renders it.glossy
and supple ; does not stain the skin nor soil the linen. If
your hair is falling off or turning grey, use this.
CAUTION.—This being different from most prepara-
tions, other kinds should be refused.
JAMES BRINSMEAD and CO., Chemists, ST. KILDA.
K 3?" All Chemists sell it.
Australian daily-press humor :
Mr. Chamberlain has delivered a brilliant speech in the
Commons in defence of the conditions obtaining at the
concentration camps.— Oablb.
Irma
7^
ds
A Wonderful power is placed at your
disposal in Hypnotism—the power to control
others—to relieve disease—to make friends
—-to make money—and gratify your
ambition. You may become a commanding
master of humanity. In fact, there is so much
that ts wonderful to tell you about it that I have
written a book for that purpose. It has 31
illustrations.
Alt)
Ibe a Hypnotist It !s merely a matter of
■ iiuwing u<jw All possess the power—both men and women.
Some p-rsons exercise a light hypnotic influence unconsciously
No doubt you have met such people They are the kind who
succeed In the world with no apparent effort.
By a knowledge of Hypnotism, bad habits, nervous diseases
leeplessness. and other afflictions may be
ftgle treatment Backwardor ungovernable
hypnotic
cured-often
children show marvellot.
treatment at the hands of their parents or others
jKht thousands of hypnotists in America. Hun.
,! ‘ V “ J - 1 Australia already
ighted students . . iVlw
them through my book The system is very simple. Thet.
.. -w. -vhy you should not become as gooa a Hypno-
tist as I am. Satisfaction guaranteed.
Send address in full, together with three stamps. You
will then receive " The Key te Hypnotism," polled is
% plain cover. Absolutely Free.
morcssoß a. c. barrihotor,
America’s Greatest hypnotist.
MS TO 147 GQLLIN4 Mr.. MfLB.
gds
PLAIN HOM€ TALK.
EMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMOINr SENSE.
Bt Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Ohromos. 400 Illustrations. 1200 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
m its covers. The new 1901 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted to any address for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is od.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
The Art of Wrestling, post Is. Hoyle’s Games, post 2/6
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted.
Seoret History of the Court of England, 1/6 post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Ciiiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
How TO Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Ciievassk’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
The Wife’s Handbook, Is 2d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is 3d.
Pa, Ma and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music complete), Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d posted.
Send for my Illustrated Bier Book
Catalogue—post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney
Amusements.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee.. .. .. Mr. Bland Holt.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. William Anderson.
Bus. Manager, James Hendy. Treas., Julius Grant.
SECOND WEEK of
THE NIGHT BIRDS OF LONDON,
a Bright Melodrama of Thrilling Interest Interpreted by
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION, headed by Miss EUGENI E DUGGAN.
Prices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager : Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, George Tallis. Treas., E. J. Tait.
EVERY EVENING. 7th WEEK of
THE RUNAWAY <SIRL,
The Jolliest Musical Play Ever Written.
Interpreted by full strength of the
ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
Prices as Usual. Box Pllan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of .. Mr. Robt. Brough.
Representative Mr. Allan Hamilton.
POSITIVELY FIVE WEEKS ONLY.
FAREWELL to Melb. of MR. and MRS. BROUGH,
Prior to their retirement from the Australasian stage.
SATURDAY, MARCH 29, Revival for 6 Nights Only of
THE AMA.ZOIMS,
Interpreted by Full Strength of the BROUGH COMEDY CO.
Prices, 55., 3s. & Is. Early doors to Stalls and Amphitheatre
Is. extra. Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’ and The Grand.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees .. .. Messrs. Williamson, Lee & Rial.
UNDER THE DIRECTION of EDWIN GEAOH.
GEORGE WILLOUGHBY
and his
LONDON COMEDY COMPANY In
THE WRONG MR. WRIGHT.
Prices, People and Play, Popular, 35., 2s. Is.
A. COWAN, Acting Manager.
g
It
Cures without
Drugs!
Still the
Letters Come.
19 Gwendoline St.,
Treherbert,
Rhonnda Valiev, Glam.,
Feb. 22, 1901.
Pierce Electric Co.
Dear Sirs,—Two years
ago next April I bought
one of your Dr. Pierce’s
GalvanicOhain Belts,which
was, I am pleased to say,
the means of restoring me
to a grand state of health.
A few days’ use of your Belt
did me more good than ail
the medicines I ever took ;
in fact, medicine was of no
use whatever. Electricity
is the remedy for me.
, Yburs truly,
) Stephen Davies.
Our New “Booklet No. 2” tells all
about this wonderful Belt. Send 2d.
in stamps for a copy.
Address — PlEßCE ELECTRIC CO., 206 Post St.,
San Francisco ; 1145 Broadway, New York, U.S.A. ;or
W. H. SOUL & CO., 160 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
The Ways of Many Waters
Br E. J BRADY.
amusements.
IYCEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee .. .. .. Mr. Wm. Anderson.
Sub Lessee .. .. Bland Holt.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY). LAST NIGHT of
„ AmTt BLAND HOLT’S
POPULAR PREMIER DRAMATIC COMBINATION
of the Truly Great Melodrama,
HEARTS ARE TRUMPS.
SATURDAY, MARCH 29, THE SP; N OF LIFE.
POPULAR PRICES—3s,, 25., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
OWN
HALL,
SYDNEY.
GOOD FRIDAY NIGHT,
MARCH 28, 1902,
GRAND SACRED CONCERT,
THE ■“ ANGELUS." THE
Grand Orchestral Effects.
SELECTIONS from « STAB AT MATER," with
Grand Chorus and Grand Organ.
Plan at Nicholson’s Saturday, March 22, 1902.
OS* 35., 25., Is. J. EDWARD SYKES.
■p OWN HALL, SYDNEY.
EASTER MONDAY NIGHT,
Grand Farewell Complimentary Concert
TO
MISS M»RI€ HARELLE
(Prior to her Departure for Europe.)
B3T A MAGNIFICENT PROGRAMME. Ts!
Prices, 35., 25., Is. Plan at Paling’s.
FITZGERALD BROS.’
NEW CIRCUS AND MENAGERIE.
THE GREATEST AMUSEMENT ENTERPRISE
TRAVELLING AUSTRALASIA.
Location— OLD BENEVOLENT SOCIETY’S GROUNDS,
Opp. REDFERN RAILWAY STATION.
PATRONISED BY HIGHLY DELIGHTED
and
ENTHUSIASTIC ASSEMBLAGES at EVERY PER-
FORMANCE.
Clean, New White Tenting Specially Constructed for the
SYDNEY SEASON.
Heaps of Novelties and, Sensations.
PRICES—4s., 35., 25., and ONE SHILLING. Children
half-price to all parts except the Pit.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s, George-street.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harr? Rickards.
First Appearance of the following Great Vaudeville Stars.
LYDIA YEAMANS-TITUS, the Celebrated Travesty Queen.
THE JACKSON FAMILY, the Famous Musicians.
DAN CONROY
GEO. B. ALEXANDER.
FRED. DAVYS.
CASSELLI SISTERS.
THE LENTONS.
Prices—2/6, 2/-, 1/6, 1/-, 6d
PROF. WRIGLEY.
FRED. BLUETT.
GIANT MARIONETTES.
WESTON & YOST.
SAM HOLDSWORTH.
Box Plan at Paling’s
MATINEES, SATURDAY & EASTER MONDAY.
RICKARDS’ NEW OPERA HOUSE
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mr. HARRY RICKARDS
EVERY EVENING, at 8 p.m.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS at 2.30 p.m
DERENDA & BREEN,
The Greatest Comic Jugglers in the World.
MADAME LOTTY, THE PERMANS,
Complete and Enthusiastic Success of the Grea
American Novelty,
NET BALL.
Prices—2s. 6d., 25., Is., and 6d. Plan at Allan’s.
ACUTE RHEUMATISM AND GOUT CONQUERED.
Indisputable Evidence
From the Seat of War.
“ llth Coy. Ist Btn. Rifle Brigade,
“Field Force, South Africa,
“ 14th May, 1901.
“Gentlemen, —Thanks for bottle of Kutnow’s
Powdek, safely received. For years I have suf-
fered severely from Liver Complaint, contracted
during my tour of service with my Regiment in
India. I commenced taking your Powder imme-
diately I received it, and have felt most beneficial
effects from it. My appetite has returned, and I
may truthfully say I feel better than I have for
some years. I shall always recommend it.
“ Yours gratefully,
“(8757) Pte. W. HAMPSON.
*
A Hospital Patient writes:—
“ The Military Hospital, Whittington Barracks,
“Lichfield, May 24, 1901.
“Dear Sirs, —I have been very ill in bed three
weeks to-morrow, suffering from some Kidney
Complaint. My body is considerably swollen
whilst in bed, but on standing up the swelling
immediately appears in the legs ; my face is also
puffy, and, in fact, water appears to be all over
my body. I have just returned from abroad, and
believe the climate has been the cause of my ill-
ness. Seeing your advertisement, I resolved to
write you for your Powder to see if it will relieve
me.—Yours truly,
“W. H. WILTON
“(Corporal), Army Service Corps.”
♦ -
“Same Address, June 2, 1901.
“Dear Sirs, —I am extremely thankful to you
for the Powder. I have tried it, and feel sure it
has worked a cure. After the first dose I was
glad to notice the swellings slightly diminish, the
second dose still further improved my condition,
the third dose entirely removed the swellings, and
on the doctor examining me he marvelled at the
result. By continuance I feel sure that I shall be
quite well again. How to thank you sufficiently
I do not know, but I am sure of this, that
‘ KUTNOW’S POWDER is an excellent remedy
for any Kidney Complaint.’ I will do my best to
recommend it to all my chums, who often suffer
from these complaints, especially after returning
from abroad. —Believe me, yours faithfully,
“W. H. WILTON,
“(Corporal), Army Service Corps.”
READ WHAT SIR JOHN B. MONGKTON
(Town Clerk of London) writes:
, _ ... Guildhall, London, November 4th, 190 L
' uentlemen. — I have much satisfaction in stating that for the last two years I have regu-
larly used KUTNOW’S POWDER with the result that troublesome and frequent attacks of
Lumbago and other Gouty Symptoms that troubled me for years, seem tc have entirely
disappeared. Yours truly, JOHN B. MONGKTON.”
Constantly Used by the Royal Family.
. KUT !'* ow ® POWDER is doubly efficient in Rheumatism and Gout. It dissolves
uric acid and phosphatic sediments as well as other products difficult of elimination, while at the
same time it exerts a moderately stimulant effect upon the renal cells, and thereby facilitates the
swift removal of insoluble materials from the body. Without such actions insoluble sub-
stances will precipitate in the kidneys and bladder. The intense suffering produced by stone, together with
consecutive pyelitis and cystitis, are avoided by prompt elimination. Unquestionably, although the speedy
removal of uric acid and other products of faulty tissue change is of conspicuous benefit, yet to pre-
a service still more important. This service is performed
by KUTNOW S POWDER when it corrects those digestive failures which are re-
sponsible for the production of - deleterious materials.—Fide Medical Record, Sept laol
Procrastination in applying a safe and efficient remedy may mean incom-
prehensible mischief to those who suffer from derangement of the digestive or
excretory organs. Success in business or the professions, or in any walk in life,
depends very largely upon the state of health. Men who work with the brain
value health, and men who value health take KUTNOW’S POWDER. Any
one of the ailments mentioned above may develop into serious disease unless
checked in time. A Sluggish Liver, for instance, produces mental depression,
clogs up the bile-ducts, brings on a bilious condition, and creates excessive uric
acid. Excessive uric acid contaminates the blood, and breeds Gout, Rheu-
matism, Sciatica, and congests the kidneys. Congested kidneys bring on Stone
in the Bladder, Diabetes, Bright’s Disease, and vesical irritations generally.
KUTNOW’S POWDER is simply invaluable in the treatment of these
derangements, and will restore the bloom of vigorous health to the most debili-
tated patient. It is an exact reproduction of the famous medicinal merits of
the waters of the European Spas, minus any of their drastic or lowering
properties.
Beware of Fraudulent Imitations.
. KUTNOW S POWDER may be obtained in capsuled bottles, of all Chemists and Medi-
cine Vendors See that the Registered Trade Mark, “ Hirschensprung ” (or Deer Leap), and
the autograph facsimile signature, “S. KUTNOW and Co. (Ld ) ’’areon the label and carton
ONLY THESE ENSURE GENUINENESS. INSIST “ KUTNOW’S ’’ AND
INJURmUS FUSE ANY SI7BSTITUTES ; THEY are worthless and’ OFTEN
Convincing
Testimony.
The Dean of Birmingham, Medical College
(B-I*. Wyman, M.D., Pli,G\), writes—
“ July 2nd, 1901.
Gentlemen. —I have to say that I have tried
KUTNOW’S POWDER, and am pleased to say
the results have been very satisfactory. I, have
been a sufferer for the past two years, and have
been greatly improved since I began the ,use of
your Powder. I mention this simply, that you
may know how highly I think of the value of your
Powder in Uric-acid Diseases, Gout, Rheumatism,
arid Kidney Troubles. I have also prescribed
KUTNOW’S POWDER with the greatest suc-
cess. —Yours truly,
“ B. L. WYMAN, M.D. (Dean).”
A Lincoln Vicar writes-
“ Holland Pen Vicarage, Lincoln, Oct. 1 22.
Dear Sirs, —For many years I have suffered
from what an eminent physician of Guy’s Hos-
pital told me was Incipient Gout, the effect of
uric acid in the joints. I have derived great bene-
fit from _ KUTNOW’S POWDER, the cracking
and grating of my joints has ceased, and I have
lost the feeling of fatigue.—Yours truly,
“(Rev.) JOHN SMITH (Vicar).”
A Derbyshire Vicar writes—
“WhitfieldVicarage, Glossop, Derby.
“Dear Sirs, —I consider KUTNOW’S POW-
DER invaluable, and have again and again found
it of the utmost service, and would not be without
it willingly. It has recently cleared off some
Rheumatism which had troubled me. lam con-
tinually recommending it to my friends.—Yours
truly,
“ (Rev.) H. T. DUDLEY (Vicar).”
D. McNeill, M.D., L.P.P.S., writes—
“ Holm, Kirkwall, Nov. 2nd, 1901.
“Dear Sirs,—l always use and prescribe
KUTNOW’S POWDER, and could not get on
without it.—Yours truly,
"D. McNEILL, M.D.”
LIVER AND KIDNEY TROUBLES ERADICATED.
Proprietors: S. KIJTNOW & CO., LTD., 41 FARRINODON ROAD, LONDON, E.C. Proprietors in U.S.A.: KUTNOW BROS. LTD., 853 BROADWAY, NEW' YORK CITY, U.S.A.


1 nr 3j it t q I? pp t q MR Ph S London, Botanist to the King of
Discovered by Christopher lludd.t^ g F Indian Tour.
ECZEMAOLEAG
Cures this terrible itching complaint.
Knf a Crease. Docs not stain the linen#
Full directions each jar. jars, 4/6 ; post, 4/10
Used in the Melbourne Homoeopathic
Hospital with success.
ANTHOSsHAIR
Not a Grease, purely Botanical.
Written testimony from well-known medical men.
One bottle In daily use lasts about 4 months.
“Anthos” prevents Hair falling out, Dandruff,
and Irritation. Bottles, 2/6 ; posted, 3/3.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL CHEMISTS AND
Moihmirne • Foy & Gibson and all Chemists.
Svdney : Pattinson & Co. (all branches).
Sy “ Y PARK & SON, 156 Pitt Street.
Depot: M. H. Horwitz, 34 Pitt Street.
colonial Representative : Fred. J. E. Phillips, 317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
New Zealand: C. L. Best, Ponsonby, Auckland.
Adelaide: Harris & Kemp, Arcade.
Brisbane: Taylor & Colledge Ltd.
Perth: Foy & Gibson.
Newtown, Enmore. Nlarrickviile
All Acquainted with this Case.
The Case of
Mr. W. O. SCOTT.
(an independent report.)
To those whose business brings them into
contact with numerous individuals of neces-
sarily various temperaments it iSj generally
considered an inherent quality to be able to
create favourable impressions on probable
customers when negotiations are in their
rudimental stage. Where one man may
succeed another may fail, according to the
tact and discretion displayed in approach-
ing the prospective client. Mysterious in-
stances of failure occur where success seemed
to be assured, and the serenity of our pass-
ing days are sometimes disturbed by conse-
quent unhappy reflections. Mr. William
Owen Scott, residing in May Street, St.
Peters, informed our reporter that he “very
frequently felt incapable of extending ordin-
ary politeness to his customers at one period
of his existence.” “I was often too queru-
lous to be spoken to,” continued Mr. Scott.
“ What was the reason ? ”
“I was driven neai ly mad with neuralgia.
I had three attacks during twelve months,
and the pain multiplied in severity each
time it came on. You can ask nearly every-
body in Marrickville, Enmore, St. Peters,
and Newtown about the way I suffered, and
as lam well-known in all those places, a
little enquiry will satisfy you that my state-
ments are quite correct. When I used to
drive round the people could not understand
what on earth was the matter with me.
Instead of having a few moments’ agreeable
chat with themas I usually had, they found
Vie eccentric in my behaviour and unpardon-
#bly bad-tempered. I took the orders and
drove off without even saying * Good-day,’
leaving them standing with a look of amaze-
ment. The torture which I experienced
robbed me of all my patience. As I had al-
ways enjoyed the most robust health I
could not account for my attacks.”
“ Perhaps you have some decayed teeth ?”
“ I thought that too, as I went to a den-
tist and had them examined. He told me
.hat my teeth were perfectly sound and tin t
my affliction had probably arisen through
my open-air work involving exposure to
cold winds and rain. I was somewhat dis-
appointed, as I was in hopes of being re-
lieved from my torture by the extraction of
two or three teeth. I would willingly have
had them all out if such an operation would
have ended my suffering.”
“ Where did the pains first appear ? ”
“ They first started on the top of my
head, making my temples throb unmerci-
fully ; then my gums, which were very much
inflamed and tender, became affected. Be-
fore long I had acute flashes of pain darting
all round my head and face like lightning.
From my gums the nagging torture travelled
to my ears, making them ache intensely.
My head was so bad that I could not bear to
turn around. My gums were swollen, and
a sensation like pins and needles sticking in
them was always irritating me. A few
moments’ relief was occasionally obtainable
through the application of hot water, a
mouthful of which, as hot as I could bear
it, inducing a little ease ; but when the
water commenced to cool the agony reas-
serted itself with redoubled vigour. It was
impossible to sleep either day or night, and
during the dark hours, when everybody but
myself was asleep, I felt more distressed and
still more melancholy. Just as the day
would be dawning I have often got up in a
fit of desperation and wrapped my head
with tow'els and flannels and then laid down
on the floor with a pillow. The hours slowly
ebbed away, but no sleep came to me. Dur-
ing the day I tried cloths steeped in boiling
water and then applied to the face, but to
no purpose.”
“ Could you attend to business at all ? ”
“It was compulsory, although I was not
in a fit condition to work, as my system was
in a state of collapse. Being unable to eat
for weeks I naturally fell off in weight, and
T suffered greatly from general weakness
and an intolerable feeling of exnaustion.
On going out into the light of day I im-
mediately felt giddy, and had to remain
stationary until the sensation wore ott. My
nerves were quite unstrung, and I _ was
always apprehensive of danger when driving
through the streets. On another occasion,
when I was in a state of frenzy through my
tortuous afflictions, I drove like a madman,
caring little about the risk I ran. If ever
any person has had such a bad experience
of neuralgia as mine was I would like to
make his acquaintance.”
“ For what purpose ? ” .
“In order to make a comparison of its
effects. From a physical standpoint I was
ruined. The many remedies I had tried
did not prove beneficial, and their adminis-
tration did not give me any encouragement.
I kep!) trying first one physic and then
another, besides experimenting with several
old-fashioned prescriptions, with the result
that I thought myself incurable. Then I was
advised to try Clements Tonic. At first I
refused to do so, in view of so many other
medicines having failed ; but finally I con-
sented to give it a trial.” v
“ And what opinion did you form ?”
“ I cannot find words to express my high
appreciation of Clements Tonic, from which
I derived great benefit and quickly regained
my health. After taking it a while I
noticed my neuralgic pains gradually dying
out. When I had taken the contents of the
first bottle the improvement manifested was
sufficient to warrant the continuance of the
same treatment, and I therefore procured
another. My hopes had quite revived, the
pains vanished. It may seem incredible,
but it is nevertheless a fact, that such mad-
dening agonies were so promptly brought to
a standstill. But Clements Tonic did more.
It brought sound, refreshing sleep to my
distressed mind. Instead of parading the
bed-room like a maniac I obtained comfort-
able rest. A new life was opened to me.
My appetite returned and my former vigour
was established. My eyes became clear and
bright, and the heavy laden, black marks
disappeared from bene th them.*" The
drawn, worried look of anguish in my face
departed with their cause, and my cheeks
soon filled out with a healthy plumpness.
'1 he second bottle of Clements Tonic effected
a complete cure. There was not a vestige
of pain left, and in every sense I was a
healthy man. A nervous irritability came
on through fear of my old enemy returning.
My mind was soon set at rest on that score,
and I am thankful to say that I have had
neither ache nor pain since Clements Tonic
cured me, and I am now three years older
since that happy event. I have frequently
recommended it to my many friends, and I
am thoroughly convinced that Clements
Tonic is an iufallible curative for all nervous
disorders, neuralgia in particular.”
“ Then I may report your cure ?”
“ Publish it broadcast, if you will, for
others’ benefit.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, William Owkn Scott, of May-street, St. Peters
Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales;
do solemnly and sincerely declare that
I have carefully read the annexed document
consisting of three folios and consecutively
numbered from one to three, and that it contains an?,
is a true and faithful account of my illness and cure
by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full
permission to publish in any way my statements—
which I give voluntarily, without receiving any pay-
ment ; and I make this solemn declaration conscien-
tiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue
of the provisions of an Act made and passed in the
ninth year of the reign of her present Majesty,
intituled “ An Act for the more effectual abolition of
Oaths and Affirmations taken and made in the various
Departments of the Government of New South Wales,
and to substitute Declarations in lieu thereof, and
for the suppression of voluntary and Extra-judicial
Oaths and Affidavits.”
Declared at Newtown, this 2nd day of October, one
thousand nine hundred, before me,
WILLIAM COX, J.P.
J. BARTRAM & SON,
34 & 36 Market Street, Sydney
(Corner of Clarence Street)
SOLE AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES . . .
The ENGLISH DB LAVAL STEAM TURBINE CO. LTD., Leeds.
Makers of Steam Turbines, Turbine Dynamos, Turbine Pumps, Turbine Fans.
(Over 80,000 Horse-power in use.)
Messrs. GREENWOOD & BATLEY LTD., Albion Works, Leeds.
Machine Tool Manufacturers and Electrical Engineers, Dynamos, Motors, Pumps, etc.
Messrs. CONNOLLY BROS. LTD,, Manchester.
inc.io+nH Cables, Wires, Tapes, etc.
-you SHOULD ALWAYS WEAR . . .
aertex
CELLULAR
with the cell side next the skin in the case of
UNDERWEAR.
There Is not a more health-keeping form of covering
for the body, and certainly none more comfortable
—even luxurious.
Besides UNDERWEAR, we Stock . . .
Pyjamas, Hosiery, etc.
And all Kinds, Shapes, Descriptions, and Colors of
Shirts /
-from the White, linen-fitted Dress and .Ordinary to
Fancy-pleated NegligA and Out-door Shirts for Tennis
and all uses. . —_ V
Sole Agents in N.S.W..
David Braham & Co.,
73 and 75 KING- STREET, SYDNEY.
I#
Given
AWAY,
This Month,
to advertise
our
OSTRICH
TIPS.
2/6
The Bunch,
post free.
3 Black or Cream
Tips with Ospreys.
Write To-day. Send Postal Notes.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Bourke & Swanston sts., Melbourne
RAMEY’S
sdg
MEDICATOR.
FOR THE TREATMENT OF
Catarrh, Hay Fever,
Bronchitis, Influenza,
Catarrhal Deafness, &c.
jYlcdicator, with complete treat-
ment, only 10s. post free.
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY,
229.231 Collin* St. Melb.
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17. st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE-to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney
Sending, mention this paper.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
RK C O 'RQ s
tS sf-W cE °r f c-
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope.
Agents for Australasia —PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne ; Wholesale Agents fur New South Wales—
Australian Drug: Co., Ltd., O’Connell St., Sydney. All
Chemists, or Box 165, C.P.O.
OLD
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
I Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free. £
DEAF
11033
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 CollinS St., Melbourne.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
rHLOROPYNE.
Caution.— I Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for OOUGrHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.\OLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS o»
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
«If X were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
DEAR SIR,—I have been cured of Weakness and De
bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
l e pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr. ROBERT
E. PARKHURBT, Pitt-street, Sydney.
*
GOUT
<T
PILLS.
F°R GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores, throughout the
Australian Colonies.
“Don’t shout”
1 hear you. I can hear now
as well as anybody.
"* How?’ Oh. some- ,
thing hew —The Wilson.
Common-sense Ear-
Drum. I've a pair.in my
ears now. you can’t see them i
they're invisible. I wouldn't
know I had them in myself,
only that I hear all night."
\The Wilson Ear-Drum is
really a substitute for the
parts of the
natural ear. Has no
wire. Invisible, easy to ad
lust, comfortable Totally
‘ different from any other de-
vice Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request
,1. CltALttfßS, 229-231 Collins- St., Help.
ds
gd
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
- With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole Agents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English
American and made to order
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, &c.
DENYER BROS.. Surgical Instrument Makers
281 GEORGE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
m
E
HI
The “Quaker” Turkish
& Vapor Bath Cabinet.
All who suffer from Rheumatism,
Liver, Kidney or Bladder troubles.
Neuralgia, Eczema, Night Sweats,
&c., should have one of these
Cabinets. Price 30/-
Head and Face Steamer, 4./-
Can he forwarded to any address.
J. CHALMERS, Agent,
229 Collins St., Melbourne
sg
A Wonderful power is placed at your disposal in Hypnotism
t he power to control others—to relieve disease—to make
friends—to make money—and gratify your ambition. You may
become a commanding master of humanity. In fact, there i*
so much that is wonderful to tell you about it that I have
written a book for that purpose.
By a knowledge of Hypnotism, baa
habits, nervous' diseases, bad disposi-
tions, sleeplessness and other afflictions
may b* cured —often in a single treat-
ment. Backward or ungovernable
children show marvellous improve-
ment under hypnotic treatment at the
hands of their parents or others.
I have taught thousands of hypno-
tists in America. Hundreds of de-
lighted students in Australia already.
I reach them through my book. # The
system is very simple. There is no
reason why you should not become
as good a Hypnotist as I am.
Satisfaction guaranteed.
Send ad dress in full. You will t hen
receive the “ KEY TO HYPNOTISM. "
posted in a plain cover. Absolutely
sdg
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
the greatest hypnotist of the century,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Dr. LANGSTON'S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
A Tested and infallible remedy,
Within the reach of all, can be given SECRETLY.
NO FAILURES. CURES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Home Treatment without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections. Call or write for treatise, posted,
two stamps. Prepared only at the Laboratory of
SURGEON LANGSTON
M.R.C-S. Eng.,
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
NASAL POLYPUS
and Similar Growths in the Nasal
and Post-Nasal Passages . . .
CURED WITHOUT OPERATION.
per° Hundreds of cases successfully treated. Write for
particulars to . . .
NEWHAM WATERWORTH,
Edward-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
ASTHMACURE
RRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES 1
For Asthmatic people suffer from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault’s Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
GRIMAULT A CO.> Paris. Sold b.v lih Uheim.-tn.


At N..S.W. Methodist Conference a
minister, arguing against divorce for any cause but
adultery said he knew of the following jumble of
relationships haying occurred in an Australian
.at 0 A married woman got a divorce ; her
niece got a divorce ; the aunt married the niece’s
divorced husband ; the niece married again • the
aunt got a divorce (a second time) from the niece’s
divorced husband ; the aunt’s first husband came
back to her in the capacity of a hired servant.
CAPILLA
HAIR
TONIC
The Hair Restorer of the Century.
All Chemists and Storekeepers, 2/6 per bottle, or by post
from W. RICHARDS, Proprietor, 168 Pitt-st., Sydney
N-S.W., 3/2. Obtainable in Melbourne at O. Swift’s,
Chemist, Collins-st. ; Victorian price, 3/-. Full Course
17/2 ; Inter-State, 19/2.
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
THE FAMOUS RIESUMCDESIDrxr FOR.
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing Hoarseness Pain n
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com
rorting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develon Consumntion ha
never been exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient
BEWARE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED
BY ONE BOTTLE OF
BRONCHITIS CURE.
HEARNE’S
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
“Mr. Hearne.—
“ Dear Sir,—l enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
»f London, England, from which you will glean that
pour medicine has been a perfect God-scnd to a martyr to
colds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
and. You can see for yourself what an immense success
It was.—Yours faithfully, .”
Extract from letter alluded to above:—
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
wived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
much interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
>ff the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
Iroin a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
tupplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS* TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“Dergholm, Victoria.
“ Dear Sir,—l wish to add my testimony to the won-
lerful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
nonths, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
! was obliged to get up and sit by the fire.' I had medical
,dvice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
rours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
Irst dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
un a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
nay depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
vonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“ Yours faithfully,
“JAMES ASTBURY."
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Jearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
ectly and rapktfv successful under circumstances which
indoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
he Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
ffty-nine other leading residents.
A PEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS.
**f used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
"Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but lam sending for another bottle in case I should want it.—D. M‘DONALD, Trinkey, via
Quirrndi, N.S.W.”
" Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
“ My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good, it having quickly cured us both.— R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford
Victoria.”
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me.—(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
1 1 have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria."
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
"My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers
Queen-street, Melbourne.” ’
“I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous. —F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—o. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria."
“Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
•
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once—
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” 0
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria."
“I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to evervbodv S
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” 9 y '
“I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine
but I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of mv brief trial.—JOHN fi’
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
“ Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good ; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well —H HOOD
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.” ’ ’
•
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
•
“Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness.—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
•
“ The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.—OHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch’s
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude ami Appreciation.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
"The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequenth
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Viotorii
who during l the last few years has been repeatedly work
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchiti
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ao
countant, Coll ins-street, and the effect that it had was st
marked that he has ever since been continually recom
mending it to others.
“We are glad to add this our testimony to the value o
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has easec
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people evei
in our own c ircle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO."
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS
“69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send us 3(
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose oui
cheque to cover amount of order.
“We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
‘ THOMASON, CHATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.*'
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPEH
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir, —Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe altack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine iii the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“Editor Geelong Advertiser.''
Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
branch depot office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large. 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
OAPTO
(LIMITED),
(Lake Illawarra>, near
SYaSJXTEY
SMELTERS.
• • •
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
• '
MAKERS OF
" S. Co, of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
“ ILLAWAERA”
..BRAND
SOFT LEAD.
urckasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LE &.B and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAG'S, JEWELLERS’ STH EEP
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT
For all inclination regarding Rates, eto., apply to P. S. Morse, Manager, Th Sjielting Company of Aoiitralia.
REFINERS of SILVER
of ASSAYS.
Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.
LEAD BULLION
“ Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical Record.
“‘Benger’s Food’
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tat on of its own.”
British Medical Record.
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
Fop Infants, Invalids, and the Aged, Delicious, Nutritive, and Digestible .
Benger’s Food is sold by Chemists, &c., Everywhere.
Extracts from Private
Letters.
“ My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult
t) find. My wife sounds
the praise of ‘ Benger’s
Food’ everywhere.”
“If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.


THE
“ It seems too good to be true ”
is what one woman writes about the performances of an
HSolian she has recently purchased.
She could not believe it possible that she could have in her
own drawing-room an agent through which she could produce
any piece of music ever written, at any time, in a truly
artistic manner with discriminate emphasis and the most
refined expression—thousands of pieces which she could never
otherwise hear; music of all masters, ancient or modern,
of every style and grade of excellence, from a
Palestrina Motet to the latest popular song.
The Quartets, Symphonies, and Sonatas of Haydn, Mozart,
Beethoven, Brahms ; the Chorales, the Fugues,
Suites, Sonatas of Bach.
The entire orchestral scores of the music-dramas of Wagner.
The marvellous musical poetry of Schumann and Chopin.
The exquisite songs of Schubert, Franz, and Brahms.
The Overtures of Weber, Rossini, Verdi, Meyerbeer, Donizetti,
Auber, Suppd, Balfe, Thomas,
Gounod, Bizet, Goldmark, Humperdinck.
The fascinating Gypsy music of Hungary—
The Rhapsodies of Liszt.
In short, the whole world of music.
An impression prevails that ALolians are very expensive instruments, and
can only be afforded by the very rich. This is a mistake; you can buy a good
.dSolian for less than you would pay for a piano, and on easy payments. The
cheapest .dEolian plays more than five thousand compositions—and plays them
well, too.
Send for Catalogue.
The /Eolian Co. of New York.
HENRY M. BIRGE & CO.,
SYDNEY: 323 George Bt. MELBOURNE: 185 & 187 Colilna Bt.
SOLE AGENTS POR AUSTRALASIA.
'MR
rfi
'S/
u <
1 J
J
a i ce
The “LANCET” says
“ We counsel the public to drink Lime-Fruit Juice
whenever and wherever they list. It is a far more
wholesome drink than any form of Alcohol.”
Montserrat” Lime-Fruit Juice either with water
Berated water is a delightful thirst quencher.
Sole Consignees—
EVANS, LESCHER & WEBB, LONDON.
EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
AGENTS— Elliott Beos., Ltd.; J. Connell & Co., Sydney.
D. Coiien & Co., Newcastle.
WOOL. PRODUCE. GRAIN
The New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Coy., Ltd., SYDNEY,
A.CX A.S SELLING BROKERS OKTLY.
Consignors are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of this Company.
WOOL
COMMISSION FOE, SELLING ... ... THREE-QUARTERS (f) PER CENT.
WAREHOUSING
.''(lncluding Receiving into Store, Fire Insurance,
Weighing, Lotting, Repacking, Sample Bales,
Advertising, Cataloguing, etc.) on Wool real-
ising over SIXPENCE per lb. the charges
will be . 3s. 9d - P er Bale -
On Wools realising SIXPENCE and over Four-
pence per lb. ... ... ••• : ••• ••• 2s. 6d. per Bale.
On Wools realising FOURPENCE per lb. and
V under ... Is. 6d. per Bale.
Perfect System of Weighing. Way Bills sent on Application.
PRODUCE
SALES of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, etc., HELD WEEKLY,
WHEAT.
Every inducement is offered growers to consign their grain for realisation by the Company
Ample accommodation is provided. Three months free storage is allowed. Circulars are sent when
desired giving cost of railage and full particulars as to Charges, Advances, etc., etc.
AGENTS POR McDOTJGALL’S SHEEP DIP.
({
ON OUR SLECTJON,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 6s. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Explorations in Civilisation.
Being the letter of an Australian in exile.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
October 19. —Passed Point de Galle and now
running along the Ceylon coast. I begin to
understand :
What tho’ the spicy breezes
Blow soft from Ceylon’s Isle.
You get the same thing, or something like it, in
North Queensland. I shall find , the East smelling
like Chinatown at Cairns—the smell of incense
and dead fish, and fine old Gruy&re and ground
coffee. The mystery of the East, I believe, is
really the mystery of dirt. Colombo and all the
East have much snake-life. The Bible was in-
spired from the East, and so they chose a cobra to
typify Satan. If the Bible were to be written in
England to-day the Evil One would be represented
as an American or a pro-Boer. ,
A steamer panted, along the coast on the smooth
surface of a wonderfully blue sea, as blue as the
indigo tub on washing-day, and many catamarans
bobbed into our ken. The catamaran is a herring-
gutted boat that yells its own antiquity—its
square sail depends from two masts stepped at
right angles. The boat is just wide enough to
allow thin-shanked Cingalese to sit in it. The
men pull with long sweeps which were probably
in use a thousand years before Belshazzar 's mother
put him into long trousers. On the spars that
connect the boat proper with the outrigger that
prevents capsize, sits a clouted coffee-colored
sailor, worming himself further outward as his
drawing sail tilts the catamaran to leeward —he
is the Labor Party of Indian Ocean-sailing, and
holds the balance of power.
As we came up to the breakwater and the squat
sea-front and red barrack-liketown, the catamarans
passed us oceanwards. I cannot forget the rapture
of that first knowledge of this new world ; in the
back of my brain there is a photograph of a
Cingalese throwing water on his square sail to
make it draw ; another of the crew sitting further
out on the outrigger as the wind filled the sail —
a splash of glossy brown on dead grey blue.
Going in we passed a husked cocoanut making
back to the shore on the inflowing tide. All the
allegories of Scripture have a literal and direct
application hidden somewhere in them. I wonder
if that cocoanut has any bearing on the injunction
to cast bread upon the waters ? The cocoanut is
bread in the East, anyway.
At four o’clock we rounded the breakwater and
found the country as it should be. The surprise is
that after seeing Kipling’s material, after seeing
the chances of him
“ Who held the gorgeous East in fee,*
that he did so little—not that he did so much. A
truer man with a more seeing eye and with less
than Kipling’s literary ability would have done so
much more. The atmosphere and the color should
make any newcomer imaginative enough to see
truly—only a born-tired man or a Chinaman could
escape it. The color is more the color of the
litterateur than of the artist.
If an artist were to paint these scenes honestly
he could produce nothing but apparently ex-
aggerated daubs—flaming as an advertisement for
varieties of aniline dyes. Nowhere is the color
touched on—it is plastered on by the pot-full.
There is a white steamer in a washing-day-blue
sea surrounded by copper-colored boys paddling
their plank craft—ready for threepence to dive to
the cave where the Kraken lives, and therefore
proportionally prepared to suicide for one-and-
ninepence. little language have they, but it is
various.
; ‘ Dibe - dibe - dibe - di be - dibe - alri - alri - tripens-
tripens-alri-la mer-la mer-la mer.”
And then they sing with all the pride of a great
singer in new music—“ Tara-ra-froom-dyah-
yah—tarara-6oom-dya.h-yah,” keeping tune with
their elbows on their ribs.
And then the dhoby-man arrives in his boat, and
the money-changer in his boat, and the seller of
oranges in his catamaran, and the glaring colors
of a transformation-scene come. And all of the
actors are thieves, from the jeweller who will sell
you a ring at an enormous sacrifice for 150 francs,
and two minutes later will offer you the twin of
it cheap for 30 francs; and the newspaper-seller,
who will try to sell you to-day’s paper, which is
really last year’s paper of a similar month and
date, at 50 per cent, over the published price;
and the money-changer, who gives the confiding
stranger 14 rupees 50 cents for a sovereign, thus
swindling that stranger of 1 rupee 50 cents. And,
Lord ! how hungrily he grabs the red gold. And
there is the dhoby-man, who is driven to the
depths of despair because he fails to get the
honorable washing of your dirty linen ; and the
oily nigger, who boards the ship with samples and
a tape-measure, and wants to measure you on the
spot for linen clothes ; and all the other thieves
who try to sell cocoanut curios and wooden ele-
phants, and model catamarans. Then the brown
ant-hills of the coal barges crawl up—the lumpers
naked but for the breech-clout—half-a-dozen of
them pulling on great sweeps with the blade of
the oar shaped like a short, dumpy shovel.
These sweeps are 20ft. long, and their shape must
mean a great loss of energy, but the nigger is
cheap and as plentiful as waratahs on Sydney
side, and so he is allowed to struggle out with his
loaded coal-barges because steamtugs cost money.
This is a picture some of our Tories would like to
see repeated in Australia.
The clothing evidently varies with the caste;
but you will often see a proud nigger, 6ft. high,
half-starved, and of cavernous belly, striding
along with a small afternoon-tea-table-cloth looped
from his left shoulder to his right thigh, leaving
his southerly elevation bare; and in the same
street a meek Uriah Heap sort of trader, as light
in color almost as a Chinese, clad in all the glories
of a surprise-packet.
Ashore the variety of color—the heaping of
pigment on pigment—is almost brutally sudden.
A red road, whose covering surface and impalpable
dust can only be made by the millionous tramping
of naked feet. I thought I had seen and eaten at
Broken Hill and in the West the finest dust
possible, but compared to this impalpable powder
Australian dust is merely a fine gravel. The
buildings are three or four storeyed, of stucco
or brick. The stucco is red or yellow —its hideous-
ness tempered by long weathering; all the win-
dows are masked with sepia’d wooden jalousies.
Cocoanut palms are everywhere—invading the
building spaces, closing in the distances, and
growing to the beach sands; the sea from here
is grey-blue, the sky ultramarine with a haze
under the skin ; there are palms of sage-green, of
lettuce-green, of spinach-green, and of greens that
are blues.
There are belts of cocoanut like those in the
convent garden at Townsville; jacarandas as in
the Supreme Court garden in Brisbane, but not
bo fine; and poncianas in bloom, like the pon-
ianaa at Harry Wade’s, on the Chillagoe-road ;
but here they are on a bigger, or rather an older
scale. And down the road to Cinnamon Gardens
the frangipanni blooms—volutes of scented ivory
on spades of magnolia green.
I hate to see a man wearing livery or doing the
work of an animal, but after some converse with
a rickshaw man I felt that ordinary standards did
not apply to him. So I packed my party in four
rickshaws and got myself into a fifth, and the
expedition started. Past the fort we went and
the Golden Gardens and the lighthouse, which is
built in the middle of a street, and out on to the
Galle Face Road, going by the sea fo>’ most of the
way. Then, turning at the Galle Face bungalows,
the rickshaw men trotted past the Cinnamon
Gardens —the night filled with frangipanni scent.
Further on, there were jacarandas and poncianas
and flame-trees—all scent and color; the night
air was cool, but almost as dense as water ; then
through groves of banyans threaded by hundreds
of fire-flies.
And, where the road was lighted, you saw the
sweat-glistering copper bodies of the rickshaw
men ; the red on the uniforms of Sikh soldiers ;
the flaring caps of Parsee merchants, and the bril-
liant turbans of Mohammedans.
We crossed the electric tram, which my nck-
shaw-man (my human horse) contemptuously
said, throwing the words over his shoulder as he
ran, was only for coolies—great sahibs like my-
self rode always in horse-carriages and rickshaws.
How much of his contempt for the electric tram
was real, and how much of it the self-interest of
the rickshaw-man I knew not—but it is quite
understandable that the tired white man, long
habituated to service by humans and the ex-
clusiveness of a rickshaw, should despise the
democratic tram. Over these perfect roads the
rickshaw ran silently—l could not hear even the
footfalls of my human horse. It was all Eastern,
quiet, suggestive and mysterious.
We passed long strings of two-wheeled waggons,
thatched over, as in the days Of Moses, and each
drawn by two small buffalo bulls, very little
bigger than Newfoundland dogs. These carry
enormous loads—tea and coffee from Kandy and
beyond to Colombo —and travel their twenty miles
a day. They are driven by green-hide bridles
passed through the nostrils —the driver adds him-
self to the load and crouches like a monkey on a
pole, his toes gripping the timber as a ’possum
grips a bough. There is not a pair of Australian
bullocks of three times the weight up to the pace,
even if they could endure the direct weight on
their necks.
Then came a great decorated litter on wheels —
it was almost the size of the coffee-wagons, and
had a thatched tilt of flat sedge. In it lay a
monstrously fat nigger of 20 stone, or thereabouts,
scarcely able to see for the bulbous fat around
his eyes ; his forehead hung over his brows like a
dew-lap. The enormous vehicle and its obese
lord were drawn at a gallop by a very tall and
horribly thin coolie —naked but for a breech-cloth,
a brown ghost, a half-carbonised skeleton, the
exaggeration of a photo, of an Indian famine.
The rickshaw-men trotted into the narrow
streets of the native quarter, and there we saw
many things. Bazaars, where the merchants sat
where the shop-windows ought to be, surrounded
by their wares. It is from the East that the
churches in tke white men’s countries brought the
idea of the bazaar—a place where all passers-by
were to be customers, the willing because of their
wants, the unwilling by the goading of whining
persuasiveness. The merchants sat, indifferent to
all hygienic considerations, in the midst of cocoa-
nuts and palm sweetmeats and areca ; the cross-
legged, half-naked clothier with his stock making
a glaring frame for his picture ; the private houses
where the family gathered round the communistic
pot, eating together, amiable even when groping
hand touched groping hand in the hot moisture of
the curry. And in the shops and in the roadways
were many girls—each of them clothed in a single
garment, very narrow and very long—folded to
display under one thickness of vesture the firm,
plump breasts, aggressive enough to strain the
texture of the thin material.
We had German lager in an old caravanserai
where the manager, a Cingalese in English clothes,
who spoke excellent baboo English, dissuaded me
from giving lager to the rickshaw-men, saying—
“Draught beer is exceedingly adequate for Hindu
blacks. ”
The narrow alley before the place where we sat
drinking was crowded until the street seemed as
confused as a mile of tangled string—by Mahom-
medans, Cingalese, Hindus, Eurasians, and all
the skin-colors earth has produced—rickshaws,
bullock-gharrys, tea - waggons, an infinity of
beggars, and very small landaus, almost toys,
drawn by two toy buffalo bulls. A dozen small
naked beggars—the color of newly polished tan-
boots —and of from two to five years of age, whined
for two annas, and sprawled under my honorable
feet as I returned to the rickshaw —and then came
a wondrous religious procession with its small and
ridiculous god under a thatched awning where
rain might not hurt his Omnipotence. He brought
with him a din of wooden drums, and cymbals,
and a queer three-stringed violin of wood and
metal, making a pleasant tumult, such as the
worshippers’ ancestors had made many a thousand
years agone. But the superior Cingalese keeper
of the shypoo shop said to me in apologetic pity :
“Such a silly procession to high degrees. These
poor black people are not Christians like us.”
He looked so pious that I wanted to kick him,
but I compromised by saying, “ I am not a
Christian,” and by paying him two rupees less
than he asked for the beer. I don’t think his
Christianity was the same after the deduction.
We rode or were drawn—can’t say “driven,”
because the human horse is his own reins—past
the Roman Catholic cathedral of the same diseased
kind of stucco, and plunged into another portion
of the native quarter, stopping before a Buddhist
temple. The swarms of loafers on the Roman
Catholic cathedral steps were like ants in a col-
lapsed ant-hill, except that they had no ant
activity and appeared to be dead. On the ap-
proaches to the Buddhist temple there were not so
many, either because they respected the Buddhist
temple or because the attendants had no respect
for them. The temple was filled with garish
representations of gods ; at the portals were great
pots of water, in which the worshippers pre-
tended to immerse their feet before entering.
“Forty miles a day,” say the rickshaw-men, is
the average of travel—they say they can do forty
miles in six hours. They spoiled us of an extra
rupee or so, and the parti-colored boatmen rowed
us back to the ship just before midnight.
But there was no sleep for me—the horde of
coolies were still coaling—the electric lights of the
ship and the tropical moonlight found new tints
and shades for the glaring palette called Colombo.
The number of catamarans and row-boats round
the ship had increased to legion, and the air was
filled with the brown man’s equivalent for curses
at the momentarily-recurring collisions. And
while standing on the accommodation-ladder of
the ship I had the greatest disappointment I have
ever felt since the grief of seeing the Australian
shore dip over the eastern horizon.
C Continued on next page.)


A REARER OF QLAD TIDINGS
Glad tidings indeed they have proved to
thousands. Bile Beans have come like a ray
of sunshine into many Australian Homes,
ousting Sickness and Misery and introducing
Health and Happiness in their stead. Here
is one of many instances.
IT WAS a lucky day for Mr. F. F.
Foster, of Harcourt-street, New
Farm, Brisbane, Q., when he was
recommended by a friend to try
Bile Beans for Biliousness, as will be
admitted on perusal of his statement,
which reads: —“I had been troubled by
severe attacks of indigestion for two years.
After each meal I suffered exceedingly.
This inconvenienced me in my work to
a great extent, causing me in many in-
stances to put aside work I should have
done. I had tried many medicines with-
out obtaining any relief. After two years
of misery I was advised by a friend to try
Bile Beans, as he could speak from ex-
perience as to their efficacy in such cases
as mine. The first dose I took gave me
immediate relief, and finding this so I
continued a course until I became
thoroughly cured. Since that time I have
felt none of the old symptoms return, and
and my appetite has greatly improved.
My wife had also been a martyr to indi-
festion accompanied by severe headaches,
ut since taking the beans she fully
endorses my approval of their great worth
in such complaints. Mrs. Foster is now
free from the excruciating headaches which
caused her so much misery and inconveni-
ence in her household duties and I may
safely say that Bile Beans have brought
happiness to a home where sickness had
formerly brought misery. I am an
engineer by profession, and have been
employed during the. past seven years at
Dixon’s tobacco factory.”
BILE BEANS
CURE
B ILIOUSNESS,
I NOIGESTION,
L IVER COMPLAINT,
| NFLUENZA,
Overloaded stomach,
U RINARY TROUBLES,
S ICK HEADACHE,
N ERVOUSNESS,
E CZEMA, PIMPLES,
S LEEPLESSNESS,
S CRQFULA, &C., &C.
zr
m
?/
Bile Beans are obtainable from Chemists and Storekeepers generally, or
direct from the Australasian Depot, Bile Beans Manufacturing Co., 39
Pitt-st., Sydney, by sending price, per box—six boxes, 6s. 6d.
»* J!
ROBERTS’ HOTEL, you enjoy your lunch
George and Market Sts.,
SYDNEY.
APARTMENTS:
BEDROOM (single), 3s. per DAY.
BEDROOM (double), 6s. per DAY.
Single Room, with Full Board, Bs. per
day, or £2 2s. per week.
TERMS. The convenient
system of paying for the
room on arrival and
meals as they are had.
When you come to Roberts’ Hotel
Dining Rooms ; and you not only
enjoy it, but it does you good as
•well. There is always a large and
tempting variety of excellent food on
our menu, and on Fridays there is a
special fish luncheon for those who
want it in addition to the ordinary.
The luncheon is ready at twelve
o’clock sharp—from Is.—and there
is first-class attendance. Dinner and
tea from 5.30 to 7.30 —from Is.
upwards. Silver grill at work.
S.
ii ii
Sti£Bß^
nEffectiveCuri
'Blichtlnflamed EyesSlids
Weak Eyes Dimness ETS
i 531 GEORGE ST
S^SYDNEY./^
raAtSTABLUNtD 185^481
REGD. LABEL.
The Greatest Discovery of Modern Times
. . FOB . .
ALL EYE COMPLALNTS
from any cause whatever.
ASK FOR
ROSE’S
Celebrated Eye Lotion
A CERTAIN CURE for Sandy Blight, Granulations, Bunged Eyes,
Dimness of Sight, Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids, Weak Eyes caused by
Dust, Sun-Glare, Overwork, &c., Swelling Blight resulting from stings
of flies and insects.
Used with equal success on the Eyes of Cattle, Sheep, Poultry, &c.
Largely used by Rifle-Shooters and Literary Men.
Testimonials from leading Commercial and Professional Men throughout Australia.
Sole Proprietor . . .
H. A. ROSE,
Dispensing-
Chemist,
531 George St., Sydney
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers. SS" Beware of Imitations.
MELLIN’S
FOR INFANTS
FOOD
AND INVALIDS.
Is adapted fop use from birth.
Send for Pamphlet and Samples to GOLUN & CO., 562-4, Bourke Street, Melbourne,
172, Clarence Street, Sydney, Grenfell Street, Adelaide, and Wellington.
Moilin’* Food Company for Australia and Now Zealand, Ltd., 56, Cannon Street, London, End*
The bowmen of the crews of two colliding boats
caught each other by the throats, after a short
argument, not in any words of any language, but
simply in dog-snarls. They do not fight with
fists—each man fastens to his opponent’s windpipe
and tries to roll overboard and drown him. I
should have liked to see them fighting in the
water, and the electric light would have shown it
with beautiful distinctness, but a serang picked
up a boat-hook and beat the combatants’ heads
with a wonderfully accurate impartiality. But
they were game men and even with their heads
bloody had to be torn off each other.
A few scenes like this explain that paragraph
in. the Governor’s last speech to the Ceylon Legis-
lative Council in which he “ regrets that assaults
with the knife are so common.” These assaults
the Baboo reporters of the Ceylon press call
“causing hurt.”
The third-class of this mail-boat is not cheering
to regard, but all my pity was given to four of my
country-men—to four Australian bullocks, so
tamed with heat and despair that they allowed me
to pat them—poor wretches. In the next pen
were six full-woolled sheep, gasping in the thick
air. Why don’t they carry shorn sheep for kill-
ing, and why haven’t they a big modern refrige-
rator, so that the meat could be shipped dead—
instead of dooming it to a hell of pain—which,
like most hells, is unnecessary ?
In the coops, there were hundreds of ducks and
geese—and, worst of all, hundreds of pigeons,
crowded one on the other, and doomed so to stay
through all the Indian Ocean and Red Sea heat;
that is, all unlucky enough to escape the knife of
the butcher in these first days.
Now pigeons were made to fly about, and pair,
and fight for the hen, and flash iris in the sun-
rays, and so justify their existence. And the
killing of pigeons and quail and larks, and such
things, for food should be unnecessary in a world
of strong men, and is only another proof that the
men of old civilisation are becoming ladylike.
Bread, beef and beer for a man, and whisky and
pipes—and, for a change, garlic and chablis.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
Our Bards.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Since then critics seem to have tired of this simple
verse, and newcomers have been received with more or
less sarcasm.— A. W. Jose in Literature (London).
So the critics tire of the simple verse that comes
from our poets’ pens,
And scoff, with a tall, bell-toppered scoff, when
they glance at the specimens.
Well, our bards write of the life they know —pray
what should they write beside ?
We want to hear of the swagman’s tramp and the
reckless bushman’s ride;
And how should they write of the deeds of Bill
and the doings of Jim and Jack ?
Should the words of Shakespeare run through the
yarns and the tales that are told Out-Back ?
Should brumbies be chased with a Browning poem
or caught with some Cowper verse ?
And how would the language of Byron look sur-
rounding a Mulga curse ?
Or picture Bob on a hairy nag with about eleven
stone up,
And with Greek hexameters in his mouth, a-win-
ning the Bullhide Cup !
Should Greenhide Billy and Queensland Joe have
a spar to a Campbell ode ?
And think of a poem by Tennyson describing a
feed-bare road !
Just fancy the swagmen gathered round a travel-
ler’s fire at eve,
When Bill starts out to recite the tale of “ Par-
don, the Son of Reprieve ”
But is blocked by Jim: “Enough of that; we
want something tone.y,” says he,
And he gives them “Eugene Aram’s Dream,”
which is classical, don’t you see !
But they only grunt at the polished lines—they
haven’t the same old ring ;
And the high-class songs we can’t enjoy like those
that the drovers sing.
Our poets write of the lives they know, and what
should they write beside ?
And wasn’t it grand how Ben Duggan rode, and
how bravely poor Gilbert died ?
Just think of the “ Banjo,” our rider-bard, whose
verses we love to read,
Till we almost fancy our worn old crocks belong
to a fancy breed ;
And when we’re reading his ringing lines and his
hero is galloping,
We seem to battle it out with him—we can hear
the hoof-beats ring.
We have followed our Lawson on lonely tramps
o’er plains that are hot and wide,
And through his verses as though in life we have
tramped with him side by side.
We’ll stick to him now as in days gone by, he has
friends still in Bill and Jim,
And I’m proud to consider myself as one of the
chaps who have “ barracked ” for him :
Though critics tire of the simple verse and scoff on
the British shore,
They’re tired of the lines our bush-bards write,
and they want these bards no more.
They want a Bill with bright tan boots, and a Jim
with a tall top hat,
And his missus in jewels and evening dress in the
humpy on Mulga Flat.
We’re to put green grass on the howling plains
and flowers on the Mount Browne track,
And Bob will henceforth be the Earl of Bob, and
Jack will be Baron Fitzjack !
And they’ll casually meet the Duke de Jim at the
opera at Broken Hill,
And there will be peace with the critics who say
they are tired of our plain old Bill.
N.S.W.
RIVERNA.
Anglesey, the b.ig island off the coast of
Wales, has just decided, by its County Council,
that all public notices and bye-laws must be
published in Welsh, as the farmers do not know
enough English to understand them otherwise.
The suppression of the insurgent Welshman who
refuses to be Anglicised may yet furnish a light
job for Ketchener.
As Told by the Dog.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was me that spoke (said a dog standing
close by). Yes, it is funny to hear a dog
talk. I never talk to anyone, only swag-
men. I’ll tell you a yarn if you like.
He’s a swell sort of chap that you spoke
to, isn’t he ? He’s my master. He used to
be pretty conceited one time —before he got
married, I mean. His wife don’t live with him.
How’s that ? you ask. I’ll tell you.
When my boss came here there were two girls
on this station —house and parlormaid, Florrie
and Kitty Lawley : they were twins. They
dressed so alike you could not tell one from the
other, especially at night, and wearing the
uniform dress servants wear.
One night, about a month after my boss came
here, he was in the room before the looking-glass.
He took some stuff from a bottle, rubbed it on his
top lip and tried to catch hold of the hair, but
there wasn’t any there; then he muttered to
himself, “Hanged if I know which of them girls
I like best; they’re both gone on me, I know.
Blest if I can tell one from the other sometimes.
However, I’ll wait a bit; one of them is bound to
ask me to marry her before long.”
I didn’t say anything, I only smiled and walked
away. I met Lassie outside. Lassie’s Harry
Holmes’s dog. He is head stockman. “ I say,”
said Lassie to me, “Harry’s funny lately—gone
on one of the girls, I think—always talking about
Florrie.”
Shortly after this my boss made up his mind
about these girls. Everyone had got a ticket in
Tattersall’s sweep, and one day there was great
excitement, for Kitty had won £2OOO. Fred made
up his mind that he liked her best, and that he
would propose to her first chance. Kitty liked
Fred all right, but she liked Harry Holmes better.
But Harry was a coward when it came to love-
making, although he was frightened of nothing
otherwise. Florrie liked Fred because he was a
swell from ’Ome, and she wanted to be a lady.
A fortnight after, one night while outside in the
kitchen, I heard voices at one end of the building.
I knew the voices. It was Harry Holmes and
Florrie. “ Now look here, Flo,” said Harry, “I
know you are in love with Fred, and you know
that lam fond of your sister. He’s such a stupid,
silly ass, that —No, I beg pardon, but you know
he doesn’t know which of you he does flirt with.
Would you marry him if he asked you, Flo ?”
“What right have you to —I wish you would
mind your own business, Harry Holmes,” stam-
mered Florrie ; “ you are”
“Yes, but darn it, Florrie ; you don’t think—
Fred is sure to propose to Kitty now she has got
plenty of money. Be sensible, and listen ; I have
a plan that will injure no one, and put everything
right. When we go fishing next Sunday we will
walk instead of riding. You just watcli me, and
every time I speak to you I will call you Kitty in
Fred’s hearing, and, so that your sister won’t
notice it when she is in hearing, I will call you
Miss Lawley, and the same to her. When we are
coming home—Fred is sure to want to come home
with you, thinking you’re Kitty—you can do the
rest, Florrie. You won’t want to tell any lies.
You know what I mean.”
Florrie did know. “ Well, Harry, I think it
is a shame that I did not win the money, and
then—mind you, I’m not going to deceive him,
Harry, but—but I do think people should marry
the persons they want to.”
Sunday afternoon passed away pleasantly. It
got time to come home.
Harry Holmes and Kitty—the proper Kitty—
were together. Florrie and Fred were standing a
little distance away. “Would you mind going
along for the fish-basket, Kitty, while I fix my
rod,” said Harry. Kitty went away.
Harry then turned to the other who was real!} 7
Florrie, and said, “ Now, then, Kitty, which of
us is going to see you home ? ”
“Oh, that’s all right, Harry,” said Fred, “I
will take care of Kitty, won’t I?” turning to
Florrie, whom he thought was Kitty.
“Oh, well, just my luck,” said Harry, sulky-
like. My word !he was cunning.
Kitty and Fred went —no, I’m wrong. Fred
and Florrie, that was supposed to be Kitty,
walked on in silence for some time. Florrie spoke
in a sad sort of way, “ I don’t think we will have
many more Sundays together, Fred.”
“ No,” said he. “ How is that ? Have I
offended you ? I hope ”
“ Oh, no; but I will be going away soon, I
think.”
“Going away? Why, where—what has hap-
pened ? Oh, Miss Lawley, don’t go away; stay
here and be my wife ; you know I have always
loved you. I will try to make you happy. Do
not ”
“ But, Fred, you are making a mistake, I am
not ”
“ Oh, yes, you are worthy to be my wife, my
darling. Say yes.”
“Please let me go, Fred. I’ll tell” (kiss).
“Oh, Fred, do”—— (another kiss).
Florrie tried to explain, but she hadn’t room to
speak. I never saw two people so silly. So I
came away and left them.
Lassie told me after about Harry Holmes and
the proper Kitty. They were just as silly as the
other two.
Well, there was a double wedding a fortnight
later. Everything passed off pleasantly. Harry
got married to his girl, then Fred to his ; then
there were some papers to sign.
Suddenly I noticed my boss get flurried-like,
look hard at the paper, then at his newly-made
wife. “My dear,” he said, “you have—have
made a mistake. ”
“Have I, Fred ; how?”
“ You have signed yourself Florrie, darling.”
“Yes, Fred, I am Florrie, I tried to tell you,
you—.”
“You Florrie,” almost yelled my boss, “and
you haven’t got the money ? ”
“ No, Fred, I—l —.”
A glassy sort of stare came into my boss’s eyes.
“We are married,” he muttered. “We are
married. ”
And she led him gently from the church.
They didn’t live long together. Florrie’s a bar-
maid in Sydney now.
They say my master’s a woman-hater. I believe
he is.
I never see him putting stuff on his top lip now.
N.S.W.
WANDERER.
The British Government makes a slight
increase in the pay of its Tommy Atkins and
issues an order that soldiers may wear spectacles
so that men with defect ve sight will not necess-
arily be barred in future. But still recruits are
scarce, and conscription mu3t come sooner or
later.


Unable to Sleep, Could Not Eat,
Nerves Upset, Joints Swollen.
A Grand Family Medicine, Good for all from tlie Young-
est to the Oldest. After the Doctors had Failed to Cure,
Health was Quickly Restored by taking
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
-
V
“ Not long ago I was extremely ill. I could not sleep, eat, or work. _My heart would throb
violently with the slightest exertion. My nerves were all upset and my joints were swollen so I
° oUl< l‘ A'i r i d the t doeto?s e ?ailed to cure me and I was completely discouraged A friend then per
suaded me to try Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and Pills. In a few days I felt better and it took only
two bottles of the Sarsaparilla to restore me to complete health.
“My husband has taken Ayer’s Sarsaparilla with the greatest benefit, too. It cured mm
of indigestion, general debility, and purified his blood when he was suffering from
I have given Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla to my children with the most wonderful effects.
It keeps their blood pyre, builds them up, and makes them strong.”
This is the testimony of Mrs. Julia Osborne, Grand Junction Road, Rose-
water, Adelaide, Sp. Australia. She sends us her family photograph, which we
give above.
Good for all members of the family; hence its name
“The World’s Greatest Family Nledicine. ,,
You must certainly be convinced that Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is a most won-
derful family medicine. It takes out all kinds of poisons from the blood, fills it
with life-giving power, and is the strongest nerve-tonic you can take.
AYER’S Sarsa P arilla
A Splendid Medicine for Children.
The cure is hastened bv takinef AYER’S PILLS, a pleasant and easy laxative.
DINNEFORD’S
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
NEFORDS
Dl
M
mm
MAGNESIA
R
Registered
by the
Medical
Board
of N.S.W-
PHYSICIAN
URGEON
HAYING had 30 years’ experience in all parts of the
world, and also having lately made an extended trip
through Europe and America, he is in a position to
treat every case submitted to him according to the
methods of the most recent and eminent Specialists.
Every Case Treated on its own Merits.
Sufferers at a distance, unable to describe their cases to
their own satisfaction, should write for Dr. Watson’s
“Guide to Diagnosis B,”
POST FREE.
which will enable them to give exact and full particulars, so as
to enable him to report fully as to the disease and its radical
and rational method of treatment.
Consultation Free
( Personally,
or by letter).
The publication of crowds of symptoms, testimonials and
puffs of one’s skill and attainments savours too much of self-
praise ; so the public should look with a doubtful eye upon all
those who “ doth protest too much.”
Dr. Watson does not pretend to say that “ One Pound is
sufficient to send,” as stated in certain advertisements,. for he
considers that the public are quite satisfied to pay a fair price
for fair and legitimate treatment.
NOSiVMSH a
137 Elizabeth Street , Sydney
Please mention this Paper when writing.
w
fa
S"H.SW
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S
TIOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headaohe
J Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chilte Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath Costiveness, Blotchesonthe Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations. &c. THE_ FIRS 1 DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is bo Action. E/ery sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be WORTH A
PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organa; engt^® I l|“ g
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion; bringing back the keen ° f
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the to tn
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham's Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medtetne m
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECH AM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is lid, and 2s 9d each.
- ■
'AS
l 'M>S.
', cmrf'
. A# J f
mMmJL
•/*§&
: ;
‘'S'-
w/ff
fify #'•'*'#
ss*
Crozine Blacking
is the best dressing made for all bright finished leathers.
It is easily applied with a cloth, and produces a polish that is unequaled for brilliance
and permanence. Men, women, and children who use “ Crozine ’ once want Crozine
always, as it is the most satisfactory waterproof dressing made for all varieties of shoes.
Sold almost every where. Made and guaranteed only by
C. L. HAUTHAWAY & SONS, Boston, Mass., U. S. Af
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
xo nPiFY coM:i»BXiTio]xr.
WINES Tke Best on% SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
A Policy for the Commonwealth.
PRICE, 6d.; Posted, Bd.
mm
ARE
1
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to
The Langston Regenerator
WILL CURE
YOU
to day.
Health, Vigor. Strength
for all who
desire it.
OLD SURGEON LANGSTON,
Member Eoyal College of Surgeons, England, permanently located in
Melbourne since 1886, originator of the Regenerator treatment, has so
perfected his method that it has revolutionised the art of Healing,
and it can almost be said there are no Hopeless or incurable
cases.
Are You a Sufferer any of its many forms?
Do you feel nervous, fretful, timid and lack the power of will and
action ? Are you subject to lots Of memory, broken sleep, feel listless.
moping, and subject to fits of melancholy ? Are your kidneys, stomach, urinary organs, liver or blood in a
disordered condition ? Do you feel generally debilitated ? Do you suffer from Rheumatism, Neur gia or #t er
aches or pains? . , .
Do not fail to have the Doctor diagnose your case. If you are unfamiliar wrth the Regenerator treatoent,
prepared in his own laboratory, which is annually curing thousands, send at once for full information;
it is absolutely free.
Seek tiie Trutli, it costa 3WQ'fcSa.xxxg’ z
No matter what you are suffering from, the Regenerator restores the shattered constitution
like magic.
All communications are considered sacredly confidential. Address
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng., cor. Russel! & Collins Sts., Melbourne


WATERPROOF COATS
RUBBER BOOTS
««» GOLOSHES
PERDRIAU and COMPANY,
(between Bond & Hunted streets) 270 George Street, Sydney
60
I.AT>TBS
FOR.
w. c. ZEIDIDIRIIIDGKE: Sc CO..
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 tore; street, Sydney
(opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Or den by post the colonies promptly
SIMPSON BROTHERS
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
sssnißH
3832%
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Worthington Pimps
For all Services kept in Stock.
Send for Catalogue.
MAM MATT’S
SMUOd 78
SNOOdS
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
KMK
J. & J. MAXFIELD, PBOPBS.. SHEFFIELD.
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS,
Empire Chambers, 93 York St..
SYDNEY.
Also at
“ TEEB BIiOCK)”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
S. FREEMAN # SONS Lions?
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO'S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN'S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP, BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE: WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SKIN,
0
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
JLod entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c."
BOTTLES, 6d.. 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers— M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND.
rRIMWADE & Co.,
Lelbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
Write for Prices and Particulars of
■
■
99
knowlks
v i.
Best Value. Highest Efficiency.
A Large Stock of Pumps suitable for every
kind of service ready for immediate delivery.
60 Clarence-st., Sydney, and
533 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CO
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
* MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
mHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
-L Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
1-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
H. P. GREGOR!) S CO.
General Machinery Merchants,
Sydney & Melbourne.
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
BJ.AKE STEAM PUMP.
Best Pump in the Market for
Boiler-Feeding 5 Irrigating,
SVlining,
Fire and Marine Purposes.
SINGLE AND DUPLEX.
ALL SIZES, up to 50,000 gallons, Imp.,
per hour, in Stock.
fl®-S6ntl for Particulars and Prices.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL-COMPORTING.
CO C O A
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
THE ONLy WAY
TO BE CURED of Weakening and Debilitating Diseases
is to obtain the PROPER REMEDIES. We have the
REMEDY that will CURE YOU. So CONFIDENT are
we of this, that we will send a trial course FREE OF
CHARGE and abide by the result. Send your symptoms
and prove our statement. Address— Botanic Institute,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
A POLICY FOR TH€
COMMONWEALTH.
Price, 6d.; posted, Bd.
The Mica [ubricaiii Co., South Shields, Eng.
Lubricants and Packings for all purposes. Patent Mica Grease saves 90% in cost of lubrication, and keeps
bearings perfectly cool. Patent Mica Packings last twice as long as ordinary, and are 25% lighter. They do
not score the rods, but put a mica surface on them, similar in appearance to electro-plate.
Sole Agent for Australasia : R. A. HERVEY. Depot, 171 Clarenee-st., Sydney, N.S.W.
DON’T SHOUT.
I hear you. I can hear now as well as anybody.
How? Oh, something new ; I have been using a pair
of Electricons. * *
They are entirely different to any other device.
Mr. W. R. Russell, 181 Brougham-street, Sydney, says J
A great number have noticed the improvement in my
hearing, and I may say that I hear plainer now than I
nave for years. I have had better success with the
Electricons than any other of the many things I have
tried. The noises in the head have not troubled me since
wearing the appliances, and I have much to be thankful
to you for.”
°ur Booklet, al! about the ELEOTRIOONS for the oure
of DEAFNESS and HEAD NOISES, sent free, sealed.
Address—
Xji. R. "VERKTOKT CO.,
cn HUNTER STREET, SYDMEY.
if
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL. ormoaita St
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotei
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9a. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
