

McE WAN’S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY. Reid’s London Draught Stout.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
.
Cocoa
"The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
■irm
Mining
G. WATKINS SZ. CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOB —
anti Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY * NEW AMD SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
' "'
Send for
Prices and
Particulars.
Descriptive
Catalogues
on
Application*
Most
Up-to-Date
Machines.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising Yankee Rubber Baby, can be carried in vest
pocket and blown out to life-size (causes roars of
laughter), Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Casket, Book of
Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Coin and Card
Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard Pish (gives
the definition of your character), The Mafeking Grub (or
nerve-strengthener), and, last of all, that side-splitting
Look_ and Laugh Glass, Instructions enclosed.
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aug*
tralia Free on receipt of 2s, 6d.
Box 8. G.P.0., Haymarket.
H. L, HUTCHINSON,
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
WO George-straat, SYDNEY
Soue Eyes! Blight!
USED 300 YEARS.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
Never fails. Restores Eyelashes.
HAD FROM ALL CHEMISTS.
“how to PRESERVE THE EYESIGHT."
Ask your Chemist for this little, book.
Sawing & Woodworking Machinery,
Vertical & Horizontal Band Mills,
THE WORLD'S RECORD
“Oraxid. l9OO.
(HIGHEST POSSIBLE AWARD.)
SOLE AGENTS
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., 85 Pitt street, SYDNEY.
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831. WHISKY.
BULK STORES:
Bulletin Lane,
PITT ST, SYDNEY.
Fresh Supplies Weekly .
TELEPHONE 3107.
RAHERVEY
iS»
EEOBART.
&&
Ijadley’s Orient fiotel.
DUNEDIN, INLZ.
CITY HOTEL
(First Grade).
J. A. TURNER - - Proprietor.
Dr. J. W. GIBBS’
.. Electric Massage Rollers . .
For use on Face and Body.
For NERVOUS HEADACHES,
HEURALGIA and RHEUMATISM
—a specific. Removes Wrinkle*.
Gold, 21/- Silver, 167-
Post Free. Pamphlets Free.
AMERICAN AGENCY COMPANY,
Box 440, G.P.0.,
Melbourne.
r He 40s^
PIONEER
LEATHER
The Leading Belt of Australia,
Ueed exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
PRICES PER FOOT OF SINGLE AND DOUBLE
BELTING :
2 2J 3 3£ 4 6 6 8 10 12 inch.
-17 -/9 -/10J 1/- 1/2 1/6 IAI 2/8 3/4 .4/-
1/2 1/4 1/7 IAO 2/2 2/11 8/6 4/6 6/7 6/9
Agents in every State.
Made by
J. G. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY,
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
El diswan - Lamp.
Bbi£w*NN\ :iini
m
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
tee mm i m
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch: 16 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNfilf.
Q’nsland Depot—Central Buildings, Edward-st., Brisbane
THE
'3so;
‘PLUM’
.
HE
THE
('ll ENTLEMEN. —This razor Is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR BTROP, specially made for this Razor, 7a Od,
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Prick /Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 8d; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 219.
gjjjgig Razor, j n ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful Case, 308.
Registered and sent Post Free to ant part of the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Bole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-Bt., Sydney.
m
PROOF
USE
10 BLICH ST.. SYDNEY
Joshua’s Boomerang Brandy.
An eminent local physician, in delivering a lecture on “ Alcoholism,” said: « Our Australian
Brandy has attained a reputation WHICH IS INDISPUTABLE. It has long been recommended
by the London Medical Press—‘The British Medical Journal’ and ‘The Lancet,’to wit—and
it has been used in many English hospitals, and in the asylums and other institutions under
the London County Council.”
A NICE PRESENT.
The New Combination PIN-
CUSHION, THIMBLE & REEL
HOLDER, nickel plated, plush
top. Clamps on to any table
by means of a spring. Price,
only 25.; post free.
Star Novelty Company,
229-231 Collins-st.,
Melbourne.
VISITORS TO MELBOUBNtt
Will find every .comfort? and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS.
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfleld Parade
ST. KILDA.
THE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house In the
Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
i-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
WHEN buying: a KEROSENE GAS STOVE inalot
r on getting: a noiseless
-T>
v&aim
JUPITER
The Very Latest
Invention.
Burns Noiselessly,
Without Smell
or Smoke,
Perfectly Safe.
Obtained First Prize
wherever exhibited.
Stocked by all Leading- Hardware Merchants and
Storekeepers.
Sole Agents for Australasia —
Nelson and Robertson,
17 LOFTUS ST., SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
Vo) 23—No. 1170. j
[Saturday, July 19, 1902.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Bushman ana Buccaneer.
A True Account of the operations of the
Bushveldt Carbineers, and of the sorry
fate of HARRY MORANT.
JIU “Che Breaker’s” Uerses.
The first edition has now been almost exhausted,
and a second print of 5000 is in the press. Send
orders early, to ensure despatch.
PRICE ONE SHILLING.
Wholesale from EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO., Ltd.,
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE.
Retail from all Booksellers, and Post-Free from
“The Bulletin” Office Is. Id.
fhe Bulletin publications.
Forwarded to apy address in* return for postal
notes, stamps, or P. 0.0. for prices stated.
Send Id. stamp for The Bulletin Book Circular,
IVo. V.
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300
pages; price, 4s. 6d.; postage, 6d.
The Bulletin Reciter:
By Eighty Bulletin Bards. With illus-
trations by “Hop,” N. Lindsay, A. J.
Fischer, F. Leist, D. H. Souter, and H.
McCrae. In handsome cloth, decorated ;
price, ss. ; postage, 4d.
Castro’s Last Sacrament and Other
Stories:
By Albert Dorrington (“ Alba Dorion
A handsome volume of 350 pages, bound in
cloth, decorated ; price 4s. 6d. ; postage, 7d.
On Our Selection:
By A, H. Davis (“Steele Rudd”). _ New
Issue. With about eighty illustrations by
Mahony, Lambert, Vincent, Leist, Fisher
and Fullwood; 65.; postage, Bd. *** “ The 1
jolliest book yet printed in Australia.”
Fair Girls and Gray Horses, with. Other
Verses:
By Will 11. Ogilvie. New Issue. Blue
cloth, blue edges, with portrait; price, ss. ;
postage, sd. *#* A charming presentation
volume.
The Ways of Many Waters:
By E. J. Brady, Buckram, gilt top ; price,
55.; postage, 3d. *»* Australia’s best book
of sea and sailor verse.
Maoriland and Other Verses:
By Arthur H. Adams, Buckram, gilt
top ; price, ss. ; postage, 3d. *** The best
book of Maoriland verse yet published.
The Last of Six:
Tales of the Austral Tropics. By Ernest
F Aveng. Paper covers, 141 pp,; price, 6d. ;
postage, 2d.
A Rose of Regret:
Verses by James Hebblethwaite ; being
No. II of The Bulletin Booklets.
Enveloped, Is. 6d. ; postage, Id.
The Circling Hearths:
By Roderic Quinn. No. 11l of The
Bulletin Booklets. Enveloped, Is. 6d. ;
postage, Id,
Dreams in Flower;
By Louise Maok. No. TV of The Bulle-
tin Booklets. Enveloped, 2s. 6d. ;
postage, 2d,
Works by Francis Adams;
(Publishers? Remainders , offered, as Second-Hand.)
Poetical Works, complete edition, printed
in Brisbane by Muir & Morcom. Paper
covers; 4to. Only a few copies remain.
Price, ss. ; postage, 4d.
Australian Essays, printed in Melbourne
by Wm. Inglis & Co. Paper covers, Bvo.
Only a few copies remain. Price, 2s. 6d. ;
postage, 3d,
Songs of the Army of the Night, printed
in Sydney. Boards, 8m Only a few copies
remain, Price, 2s. 6d.; postage, 3d.
At Dawn and Dusk:
By V. J. Daley, In handsome cloth,
with portrait. Price 55.; postage, 4d.
THE BULLETIN BOOKS.
Sole Distributing Agents:
Howards, Dunlop & Co., Did., Sydney and Brisbane.
Special Wholesale Agents :
New South Wales .. Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd.
Queensland .. .. Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd
Victoria .. .. .. George Robertson Proprietary.
Tasmania George Robertson Proprietary.
South Australia .. E. S. Wigg & Son,
Westralia .. .. E. S. Wigg & Son,
Auckland and district Wildman, Lykll, & Arhy.
Others to be appointed.
Sold by All Leading Bookshllbbs.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
214 George-st., Sydney, Australia.
THE LATEST BOOKS AT —*
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Merrick, When Love Flies, 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Glasgow, The Battle Ground, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
G wvnne, Marta, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
"Wilkinson, The Great Alternative, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Hatton, Design, 6s, p. 6d.
Wiggin, Diary of a Goose Girl, 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Mediaeval Rome (Story of the Nations), 6s, p. 7d.
Bjorling, Pipes and Tubes, 3s 6d, p. sd.
Naylor, Trades Waste, 265, p. Is.
Howard, Letters to Dolly, 2s, p. id.
Write to us for any Book or Magazine you want.
We ere always pleased to answer Enquiries.
71 CASTLEREAGH BT,, SYDNEY (4 Doom South of King St) & at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane 4 London
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
(KEGISTEKED).
For
COUGHS, GOLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS of the
THROAT and
LUNGS.
■P9 'Bl SNIX Nl
m
'^oVS
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable for Singers
and Public Speakers.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, 08. POST FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR,
a. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q.
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE *, and FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO., MELBOURNE, AGENTS*
They ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia*
THE RED PAGE.
WRITING of Brunton Stephens (B
5/7/’O2) “F.M.” sorrows over the fact
that the poet found a haven of refuge
in the Queensland Civil Service, and
asks why did not a newspaper
so arrange out of its abundance that the daily bread
should have been available without renunciation of the
golden apples which might have beeen plucked for the
cheering and healing of mankind? He was worth more
than daily bread for even a little prose work on any great
daily piper. But there was no place found for him, and
so he dragged out his dreary life, struck his one full
chord and his subsequent broken music, and died.
This to establish a contention, which may or may
not be true, that Stephens had more in him than
ever came to light. \ Now, there is a theory that
hardship is necessary for the production of
and if Brunton Stephens had been a journal®!?
and not a fairly well-paid Civil Servant, he’d have
had hardship enough, Lord knows. But has the
theory any foundation except the slender one given
by some more or less disordered work, wrung out
by certain writers with tears and blood ? Most of
the best literary work of the world has been the pro-
duct of men whose bread and butter was assured
to them if they had never written a line of prose or
poetry. From Milton downwards, English litera-
ture (not to wander further afield) is decked with
names of men who found in Government service
the means to live whilst they wooed the Muses.
Had Stephens been struggling on a newspaper
for a poor salary—tempted ever to put his thought,
crude and raw, into his journalistic work -it is
safe to say that his environment would have been
far less favorable to poetic production than in an
easy, dignified, oomfortably-paid post which left
him all his imagination free from call. For the sake
of her poets, Australiashould give them all—all who
will consent to bow to the more important of life’s
conventions —comfortable Civil Service billets.
The reservation is necessary. One (now ex-
tinguished) light of literature, for whom a
haven was found in Government service in
one of the Australian States, persistently
drowned his small glimmer of practical work-
ability in beer, and was ever pardoned, until at last
he took it into his head that he was a watch-dog
and must wait on the door-mat to actually bite a
particularly dignified under-secretary. Then the
service lost him.
Victor Hugo’s posthumous MSS., how being
published, include a valuable and suggestive
essay on “ Taste.” He claims to genius the right
to violate all the canons of good taste which are
binding upon ordinary mortals, and justifies
The inane pun when it comes from .Esohylus, the
grimace when it is from Goza, the hunchback when /Esop
has it, the louse when Murillo crushes it, the flea when it
bites Voltaire, the jaw bone of an ass when Samson
handles it, sex-hysteria when the Song of Solomon colours
and displays it, a peasant woman in her tub when it
pleases Rembrandt to call her Susannah at the bath, the
smashing of an eye when it belongs to CEdipus, the tearing
of it out when it belongs to Gloucester, a woman’s howl-
ing when it is Hecuba’s, snoring when it comes from the
Eumenides, the box on the ear when Che Did avenges
it, spittle when Jesus receives it, coarse invective
when Homer uses it, rudeness when Shakespeare invents
it, dirty slang when Villon speaks it, rags when Irus is
wrapped in them, blows from a club when Scapin gives
them, carrion when the vulture and Salvator Rosa devour
it, the belly when Agrippina uncovers it, the brothel
when Regnier takes us there, th<- pr >ouress when Plautus
employs her, the cess-pits when T iCitus drowns Nero in
one, and when Rabelais bespatters the theocracy with
them, form part of the Supreme Taste. The hag of
Molifere, the prostitute of Beaumarchais, and the filth of
Shakespeare belong to it.
That is so, perhaps, for the genius. But how is
the writer who is prompted to deal with vermin,
and bagnios, and Rabelaisism to test whether he
is a genius, and so licensed, or not ? Hugo almost
insists that all Supreme Art has some trace of
dirt :
Certain liberties, lofty familiarities, insolences even
that can only come from greatness, are only met in
sovereign achievements, and are their indication. Eagle-
dung proves a peak.
That far one can’t reasonably follow Hugo. He
seems to confuse association with cause and effect.
It is true that—
Most of the great writers of the world have left some
dirt with their gold.
It is also true that—
Most of the great writers of the world lived in times,
when what is now thought disgusting was tolerable, was
common in conversation between well-bred men and
women, and excited no more feeling than does a dog in
his natural skin.
Isn’t it more logical to conclude that great
writings are stained with the obscene because
their times were (according to our view) obscene,
than to suggest that the obscenity makes them
great?
J* A / '
Fiction by the last mail is of better quality than
ordinarily. “ Wood side Farm,” by Mrs. W. K.
Clifford (Duckworth and Co.), is a novel of some
power and insight, wholesome and natural in
tone. “Unstable as Water,” by Mrs. J. H.
Neadell (Warne and Co.), is an excellent study of
temperament —the temperament of a weak man
who didn’t “ choose tosm,”but slipped into w r rong
mainly through the tyranny of circumstance. From
George Robertson and Co., Sydney, comes “ Last
Words,” by Stephen Crane, whose brilliant and
rugged style flashed on the world in the “Red
Badge of Courage.” “ Last Words’ ’ shows some
gleams of the old power —in the “Spitsbergen
Tales ” more particularly, which contain fine
word pictures. From Walter Scott and Co. we
received the first volume of a series of “Makers
of British Art,” having Landseer for its subject.
The letterpress is excellent, and the 23 plates in-
cluded give photographic reproductions of the
best, of the great animal-painter’s work. The
work is published at a popular price. Everett and
Co. send “ In Royal Colors,” another sporting
novel by Nat Gould ; and “ The War Horse,
Present and Future,” by Sydney Galvayne. The
latter gives the author’s experiences as a remount
officer during the S’African war, and contains
much matter of interest to horse-breeders.
9
The Critics of Democracy.
“ A.M." writes
The “ Red Page ” has had much to say of late
about Whitman and Heine —two of the new
spirits of modern democracy—and also of the
“ancient roots” of democracy. The works of the
first critic of democracy—Aristophanes—seem to
me to show that the problems facing us now,
“ the problem of the Kleons,” as one of your con-
tributors put it the other day, are all old —have
been faced (and not surmounted) before. Whit-
man, Heine, Ibsen—all those whom you may
class as the “ critics ” of democracy—are they not
merely echoes of Aristophanes*? He may be taken
to have said the first and last word in regard to the
faults and follies into which popular government
is prone to fall. A democracy seems to flourish
only so long as simplicity of .manners and customs
prevail. When it becomes wealthy it begins to
degenerate. The critic who sees and bewails
the approaching ruin is often dubbed a
“ conservative ” and a reactionary, and yet
may be the truest friend of Liberty.
Such was Aristophanes, the first and greatest
satirist, whose comedies seem to have suggested
all that Heine, Ibsen, Whitman, and other voices
of the “new spirit” have to say in criticism of
demagoguey. “ The Knights” shows that his
ideal was a purified democracy, since the play
ends by Demos, who is supposed to have renewed
his youth, announcing the reforms he means to
introduce in his government.
The process of democratic degeneracy, as de-
scribed by Aristophanes, is almost exactly
paralleled in our modern times. If the great
heart of the people (personified in Demos) is
sound, the head, unfortunately, is weak, and he
is prone to believe anything he is told. As
Aristophanes puts it:
Worthy Demos, your estate
Is a glorious thing, we own.
The haughtiest of the proud and great
Watch and tremble at your frown ;
Like a sovereign or a chief,
But so easy of belief
Every fawning rogue and thief
Finds you ready to his hand.
Flatterers you cannot withstand ;
To them your confidence is lent,
With opinions always bent
To what your last admirers say :
Your noble mind has gone astray.
That is the People in the days of Kleon. They
choose as rulers not the honest man, who does not
flatter them, is probably not very anxious for
office—certainly will not, in order to attain it,
lower his self-respect by holding out hopes of
material advantage to the people—but the
ignorant, vain demagogue with a profound belief
in himself and his power of putting his corner of
the world to rights :
To be a leader of the people one must not be a man of
education or of upright character, but ignorant and
depraved.
The contest between Kleon and the sausage-
seller of Athens for popular supremacy might be
a battle between two Works-Ministers of
the present day, using loan funds for ammunition.
The two try to outvie each other in flattery of.
Demos and promises of benefits, the money for
which is to come out of the public funds. “ You
think him all your own property, ” exclaims the
sausage-maker. “Yes, for I know with what tit-
bits to feed him,” is the reply, and forthwith
Kleon points out what he has done and means to
do for Demos. How curiously close to modern
incidents is the plea of Kleon to Demos :
I feed you and care for you, and contrive by fair means
or. foul that you have your 3-obol piece a day,
The Athenians loved to be reminded of their
victories at Salamis and Marathon, even as Aus-
tralians are fed fat on praise of their prowess in
the Transvaal. “You who fought to the death
the Medes at Marathon,” says Kleon, playing on
tin.- weakness, “and gave us something to make a
mignty talk about.” The sausage-maker, not to
be outdone, offers Demos a cushion to sit upon,
“that he may not wear out the limbs that did ser-
vice at Salamis.” Demos is never tired of such
sops. He begs the sausage-maker to read him
some oracles as to his future, “especially that one
I am so fond of, about how I shall become a soar-
ing eagle.” Modernise a little, and you have the
flamboyant speeches of a John See or a grocer
Colonel, designed to tickle the palates of the
people.
When Kleon attains office, there follows a golden
age, but it is fleeting. The public funds come to
an end. Much is spent on eating and drinking.
All Kleon’s friends have to be provided for, and
the people have to be kept in good humor by sops.
Borrowing is resorted to, but that too fails in time,
as the national debt mounts ever higher. In vain
their leader strives to prove, in the face of figures,
to the people now growing uneasy, that the state
never was more prosperous. ' The sausage-seller
declares that, when Demos is off his guard, Kleon
“destroys root and branch the work of the auditors,
and with both hands ladles out the public funds.”
A new candidate for public favor appears on the
scene, the tanner gives place to the sausage-maker.
Fresh promises, more civic feasts, but the policy of
blundering and plundering continues as before,
until the republic is wiped out, as Heine says, “ so
soon as it comes into collision with the great indi-
vidualities of the out-of-date oligarchies and
monarchies.” It is not encouraging to democrats
of to-day to read those old satires of faults and
follies of centuries ago, in view of the faot that the
satires failed. Now, the same conditions recur-
ring, bring up new satirists. Will they, too, speak
and write in vain ?
Heine, Ibsen, Whitman have but amplified
Aristophanes’ ideas consciously or unconsciously,
Ibsen in “ The Young Men’s League ” deals with
the rise and progress of a man like Kleon, essen-
tially vulgar and commonplace in character, but
clever and ambitious of political success. In this
play and “An Enemy of Society” he gives free
vent to his opinions on current political problems.
Democracy he declares is ever amenable to an
appeal to its selfishness, cares not for doing wrong,
if the wrong is profitable. Government by party
is immoral. “ A party is like a sausage machine ;
it grinds all the heads together in one mash.” In
a speech at Drontheim in 1885 to a club of work-
ing men he declared :
Mere democracy cannot solve the social question. An
element of aristocracy must be introduced into our life.
Of course I do not mean the aristocracy of birth or of the
purse, or even the aristocracy of intellect. I mean the
aristocracy of character, of will, of mind. That only can
free us.
“ Undermine the idea of the State,” Ibsen
writes to a friend, “ substitute for it spontaneous
action, and you will start the. elements of a Liberty
which will be something worth having.”
Whitman, on the same lines, insists that the
individual, not the State, is to be ever
considered first. Liberty is being constantly
threatened by the indifference, ingratitude
and faithlessness of the people. It is only to be
guarded by thinking “ lightly of the laws,” or as
Sophocles, contemporary of Aristophanes, ex-
presses the idea by the mouth of Antigone, in a
passage known to the world long before the days
of Whitman: “I thought not laws of thine power-
ful enough to overstep the unwritten and enduring
laws of the gods. For these are not of to-day or
yesterday ; for ever they live, and no one knows
whence they have arisen.”
Centuries ago there were the same difficulties
and the same prophets of disaster to democracy.
They were unheeded then. Will they be listened
to now ?
“Besant’s Autobiography” has two or three
catchy chapters. He. upsets common notions
about collaboration. Merely because it has been
the case with certain authors, there is an assump-
tion that the work of collaborators is always very
distinct, one from the other. Not so with Besant
and Rice. Besant, looking back on their partner-
ship, could not disentangle his work from Rice’s.
They wrought ten years. Besant regretted that
they did not cut adrift in five. He considers that
the best of their joint novels was “ The Chaplain
of the Flpet,” and the best of his own novels
“ Dorothy Forster. ”,
Louis Becke’s new story, “Breachley, Black
Sheep,” is just being published m TTnwin’s
Colonial Library. Its hero is a colonial boy ; sub-
ject, love and adventure; locale, a Queensland
cedar-getters’ camp, then California and the
South Seas.
Some correspondents—
“F.M.” {re “ A.P,” on William Blake): Blake tells
exactly how much he learned from Swedenborg. Blake’s
love of animals, sweep-boys, and leather-breeched, half-
starved, charity urchins came, as he would have said
himself, like his genius, from the Spirit. Francis of
Assissi had no more to do with it than John the Baptist,
Of Buddha and Buddhism he certainly knew nothing. He
took less than any other thinker or writer or painter from
any who had gone before him.
0.1. D. : England to-day is an England of social, politi-
cal, and moral decay, where instead of social life we have
ghosts of Feudalism ; instead of politics, ghosts of Roman
Empire builders ; instead of morals, ghosts from the still
older preceding Greek empire—philosophs, epicures,
atheists, polytheists, monotheists, gnostics, and betrayers
of the Mysteries—all from the most decadent period, and
all lacking in the vital life in which the good lives and
moves and has it being.
The hoary old democrat and iconoclast in Art,
George Frederick Watts, comes into the new
Order of Merit (which doesn’t sound half so well
as Legion of Honor). And yet Watts’ “Mammon”
crashes into church and state King’s crown,
Pope’s crown, millionaire’s crown. Gladstone
offered Watts a baronetcy in 1882, but the old
man (born 1817) didn’t like the company.
ON WOMEN.
Oh, the gladness of their gladness when they’re glad I
Oh, the sadness of their sadness when they’re sad !
But the gladness of their gladness and the sadness of
their sadness
Are nothing to the badness of their badness when they’re
bad.
Old Epigram.
NELL’S REPLY TO “ THE BREAKER."
“ Love me much a little while.”
“ Love me much a little while?”
That’s correct poetic style ;
But it also seems to me
Love that’s kin to tragedy,
i'ou would have me love you much,
Yearn and hunger for your touch ;
Have pulsing heart and crimson face,
Swoon within your hot embrace.
You would fain the eyes of fire—
Fanned and flamed with fond desire—
To surrender ; then begin,
Teach the captive bow to sin.
When you’re wearied with the play,
Withered rose is cast away.
“ Love you much ? ” I like your son ;,
But, wisdom whispers, “ Love—but long."
Gallant rider, singer, rover,
Throws contempt to laggard lover ;
Nathless, prudence bids me, sir,
For the laggard to declare.
H.M.
A FANCY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My heart is like a harp wild-strung,
And she I love’s the player ;
No truer song- was ever sung,
No sweeter song, or gayer,
Than when her fingers stray among
Its strings, and linger there.
Should she be kind, it thrills into
A dancing lilt that rivals
The shrill of lark ’mid morning dew,
The song of earth’s revivals ;
But should she frown, it falleth to
Low tones of self reprisals.
Though every chord thus plays a part,
How may she know I love her ?
Could I but sing all in my heart,
Then might I be sure of her ;
For thus the full of passion’s smart
Would I at once discover.
Thorold Datrymple.


WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, and CO., Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AIMD PRODUCE SALESMEN,
SYDNE Y.
rDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP
THE ORIGINAL NON-POISONOUSDIP.
M'DOUG-ALL BROS., 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
AGENTS:
NZ.L. & M.A. Co., Ltd., Australia and New Zealand : Strachan, Cheedle & Co., Adelaide; J. B. Curran, Hobart.
SKINS
Send to
Kangaroo,
Wallaby,
Rabbit,
Opossum.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
SYDNEY,
and so obtain utmost possible prices.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & COMPANY Ltd.
SYDNEY.
Compare our Reduced Produce Charges
with those of
other Brokers.
Our Reduced Charges.
Old Charges.
4 per cent.
4 per cent.
2\ per cent.
4 per cent.
5 per cent.
5 per cent.
5 per cent. (Minimum 5s per ton)
HIDES
SHEEPSKINS
TALLOW (£lOO and over)
TALLOW (under £100)
HAIR, HORNS, BONES, &C.
FURRED SKINS
BARK
3 per cent.
3 per cent.
2 per cent.
3 per cent.
4 per cent.
3J per cent.
4 per cent. (Minimum 4s per ton)
While thus selling Produce at these unprecedently Low Rates, we desire to emphasise the fact that we are
fully maintaining' the hig a efficiency of our Produce Department, and Consignors can therefore, when entrust-
ing their produce to us, rely on securing results that will favorably compare with those obtained by sending
elsewhere. Specal Terms offered to Agents influencing business. Correspondence invited. All Proceeds
absolutely safeguarded by our Trust Account system. GEORGE MAIDEN, Manager.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMOMT.
Sole Charge s 3 Per Cent, -fco the Growers,
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge id. per lb. to the Bayers.
The Bulletin Story Book.
A Handsome Cloth-bound Volume of over 300 pages. The best
collection of Short Stories and Literary Sketches yet produced in
Australia. Price, 4s. 6d. Wholesale : Edwards, Dunlop and Co.
WONDERFUL VALUE IN CIGARS.
SINGLE BOX AT WHOLESALE PRICE.
GUARANTEE: EVERY CIGAR SOUND AND IN PERFECT CONDITION.
Goods Exchanged or Money Returned.
CIGARS
DELIVERED FREE OF DUTY AND CHARGES*
Post Frbh Post Freh Usual Retail
SEND FOE
OUR
LIST
OF
C. 8.8?
BRIAR
PIPES
MICK SIMMONS,
TOBACCO MERCHANT and IMPORTER,
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
Tobacconists and Storekeepers may obtain Wholesale List on application.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I*o DEFY COMZFDXITIOKT.
WINES ne Best B r* s O,iy SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OB MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
W.AJMTEIv’S SAFE OXJP^E
SOME INTERESTING LETTERS.
To many people who suffer, especially
those who may despair of ever obtaining 1
relief, the following letters, addressed to
H. H. Warner & Co., £td., Melbourne,
will prove intensely interesting.
Victoria Street, Carrington, Newcastle, N.S.W.,
September 24, 1901.
Gentlemen, —
I was a sufferer from Indigestion for a considerable
time, which caused me severe pain in the chest. Nothing
did me any good until I took Warner’s Safe Cure, which
lam pleased to say cured me. This was three years ago,
and I have not been troubled since.
Yours faithfully,
THOMAS LARKINS.
Beresford Street, Wickham, Newcastle, N.S.W.,
Sept. 26,1901.
Dear Sirs,—
Some time ago, while in Gympie, Q., I strained myself
while loading timber for the mines, and suffered Severe
pain in the region of my kidneys. On two
occasions I passed blood with the urine. The doctor
who attended me could not help me. I then took
Warner’s Safe Cure, three bottles in all, and am happy to
state that it completely cured me.
Yours trulv,
WILLIAM GREENWOOD.
Bromham Place, North Richmond, Vic.,
June 20, 1901.
Dear Sirs,—
Twenty yaasrs ago I began to suffer from a terrible pain
in the back. I consulted several of the most eminent
doctors in Melbourne. One doctor said I had Lum-
bago, and gave me liniment to rub on it, but it did me
no good. I went to another doctor, and after examining
my urine be said the tissues of my kidneys
were destroyed, and he could give me but a fort-
night to live. You can tell the state of alarm into which
I was thrown by this verdict. I immediately consulted
another doctor, and to my relief he pronounced my
trouble to be muscular rheumatism. He treated
me, but his treatment did me no good. For eighteen
years I was under first one doctor and then another, and
faithfully carried out all the advice they gave me and the
treatment they prescribed, but still I obtained no re-
lief from the excruciating pain. About two years
ago I was in despair, and, in my desperation, hear-
ing of Warner’s Safe Cure, I determined to give
up consulting doctors, and to give that medicine a
trial, as I had heard and read of similar cases to
my own being cured by it. After taking the first
dose T got great relief from the pain. In two days
the pains and ache from which I had suffered for eighteen
years had entirely disappeared. I continued to take the
medicine for some little time, and can sincerely declare
that it has absolutely cured me, as I have not had a
return of the pain since, and that is two years ago. I
used also to suffer a great deal from attacks of Gout,
hut since taking Warner’s Safe Cure I have not been
troubled in this way either.
You can make whatever use you like of this letter. My
statements are absolutely true, and I bless the day when
I first began to use Warner’s Safe Cure.
J. GLEESON,
Interpreter of Irish National Music.
10 Russell Place, North Williamstown, Vic.,
October 5,1901.
Gentlemen, —
Some eight years since, I was laid up with a very per-
sistent attack of Rheumatics or Rheumatic
Fever, and, although under the care of a leading
medical man, I was at the end of four or five months
getting worse instead of better, and, in the doctor’s own
“would never make any permanent improve-
ment.” As a last hope, I gave Warner’s Safe Cure and
Warner’s Rheumatic Cure a trial, with the result that
from the taking of the first dose, I could see hope ahead,
and by the third dose all pain had left me. I never had
the slightest relapse, and my complete recovery ensued
some seven weeks later. Thanks to your medicines the
doctor’s prediction was upset as, as from that day, eight
years ago, I have not had the slightest sign of a return
of that dreadful complaint.
I am yours, &c.,
WILLIAM POLLOCK M'AUSLAN.
Broken Hill, N.S.W.,
Oct. 8,1901.
Dear Sirs, —
Some time ago I had the misfortune to be run over by
a cart., a wheel of which passed right across my kidneys,
and for years afterwards I suffered from a pain in
my back and in my grroin. Since taking
Warner’s Safe Cure, however, I can truthfully say that,
at the age of sixty-one, I am perfectly cured, and in
grand health.
I am a native of Sydney, and well-known in the
Singleton district as the Australian Hunter and Champion
Rifle shot of N.S.W.
I have been Oourtkeeper now for twelve years.
Thanking you, I am, gentlemen,
Your obedient servant,
BRYCE HAMILTON, Oourtkeeper.
12 Surry-street, Darlinghurst, Sydney,
September 14,1901.
Dear Sirs, —
For many years I suffered from Liver Complaint,
which caused me great pain. I tried every remedy
possible, but could obtain no benefit. One day I was
walking along, and was handed one of your books, and
seeing in it cases of numbers of people who have been
cured by Warner’s Safe Cure, I bought a bottle, from
which I derived great relief. I continued to take the
medicine until I was finally cured.
Yours faithfully,
ROBERT HODSON,
Baker.
62 Surry-street, Sydney,
Sept. 14, 1901.
Dear Sirs, —
Having been a sufferer for over five years from Kidney
and Bladder Complaint, I went to the principal
doctors in Sydney, Melbourne, and New Zealand, and they
all gave my case up as hopelesss. I began to get thin. I
lost my appetite and kept on getting worse every day,
until I read in your book about the marvellous effects of
Warner’s Safe Cure. I got some of the medicine. After
the first bottle my appetite returned, and I began to get
fatter. In all I took six bottles and am now quite well.
Yours sincerely,
F. ELLIOTT.
Vine Cottage, Second-street, Port Pirie, S.A.,
October 4, 1901.
Gentlemen,—
It is with the greatest pleasure that I send you my tes-
timony as to the great and lasting benefit I have derived
from the use of Warner’s Safe Cure, as I fully believe
that, but for this medicine, I should now be in my grave.
I had been suffering for a long time from a complaint
common to women of middle age. 1 was losing- flesh at
an alarming rate, and was very weak and in great pain.
The doctor could do nothing for me. At the eleventh
hour I commenced to take Warner’s Safe Cure. Greatly
to the surprise of my friends and of myself I began to
improve from the first bottle. I continued to take the
medicine, gaining health and strength every day, and in
a few weeks I was up and about my household work. I
am now quite strong and in good health.
Yours truly,
(MRS.) R. L. HEAD.
Railway Hotel, Scone, N.S.W.,
October 2, 1901.
Dear Sirs, —
For ten months I suffered from Biliousness -o badly
that I was unable to attend to my work. Taking the
advice of a friend I tried Warner’s Safe Cure. To my
astonishment, after taking two bottles, I was a new man.
I strongly recommend Warner’s Safe Cure in cases of dis-
ordered liver. Yours truly',
WALTER DRAYTON.
Comer of Central and Jameson Streets,
South Broken Hill, N.S.W.,
October 8,1901.
Dear Sirs, —
Some few years ago I was a confirmed invalid, and was
laid up for a long time with Inflammation of" the
Kidneys. The doctor was treating me for many
months, and I was informed that I should never be able
to get about and attend to my household work again. I
was at that time in such a weak and exhausted condition
that I thought I could not possibly live much longer.
One day a friend brought me a newspaper cutting. It
contained the case of some person who had been suffering
in the same way as I was, and who was quite cured by
Warner’s Safe Cure. Reading this gave me a faint glim-
mer of hope. A bottle of Warner’s Safe Cure was bought
for me, and a vial of Warner’s Safe Pills. I commenced
to take the medicine, observing the diet rules given, and
very soon began to feel a decided improvement. Day by
day I got stronger and better. By the time I had taken
seven bottles of Warner’s Safe Cure and two vials of the Safe
Pills, I was completely restored to health, and in a little
while was as strong as ever. lam quite convinced that
Warner’s Safe Cure saved my life.
Yours faithfully,
(MRS.) EMMA GOGLER.
Victoria Hotel, Ballan, Vic.,
October 8,1901.
Dear Sirs, —
Some time ago I suffered from severe pains across
the back, brought on by kidney complaint.
The pain was so intense that I had to cease work. I was
advised to take Warner’s Safe Cure, and after taking two
bottles, found myself perfectly cured.
Yours truly,
PATRICK NOLAN.
No. 2 Lane, Kadina, S.A.,
Oct 7,190 L
Dear Sirs, —
I have pleasure in certifying to the beneficial effect 1
have derived from Warner’s Safe Cure.
I have been a sufferer from Kidney Colic, on and
off, for the past three years, and the only relief doctors
could give me was by means of a morphia injection l
Since taking Warner’s Safe Cure, however, I have felt
little or no pain.
Yours respectfully,
JOSEPH WILLIAMS.
Elmhurst, Vic.,
October 24,1901.
Dear Sirs, —
About five years ago, through an accident, I suffered
greatly from a pain in my back, which was much
intensified owing to my catching cold which settled on
my kidneys. Seeing Warner’s Safe Cure advertised as
a remedy for cases of this nature, I took two bottles of
that medicine, which relieved me so much that I thought
I was cured. This turned out not to be the case as I
suffered a relapse. I started taking Warner’s Safe Cure
again, and when I had taken five bottles, pain, strain and
cold had disappeared. A perfect cure had resulted.
I should like to point out that many people, suffering
as I did, do not give the medicine a fair trial, taking only
one bottle when four or five are really required. I am
yours truly,
HARRY G. BAILEY.
203 Brougham-street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
Sept. 18,1901.
Gentlemen, —
About twelve months ago I was suffering severely from
Palpitation of the Heart and pains across
the small of my Back and between the
Shoulderblades. My appetite was very poor, and,
of course, I got very thin. I tried several different kinds
of medicines, but they did me no good. A relation of
mine strongly advised me to take Warner’s Safe Cure and
Warner’s Safe Pills. I procured some of each, and took
according to directions. I found, after taking the medi-
cines for three days, that the pains were much easier,
and my appetite began to improve. I took, altogether,
five bottles of Safe Cure and two phials of Safe Pills, with
the result that I was perfectly cured.
Yours truly,
J. DEVEAR.
Rheola, near Inglewood, Vic.,
October 21,1901.
Dear Sirs, —
My son suffered for nearly twelve months from Indi-
gestion, which caused him violent pain in the pit of
the stomach. He could get no relief till I gave him
Warner’s Safe Cure. After taking four bottles he was not
only relieved, but permanently cured, having had no re-
turn of the complaint.
I used to suffer from Spasms very badly, so much
so that I at times nearly choked, but, seeing the good
results obtained by my son, I took Warner’s Safe Cure
myself, and since I first took it three years ago, have
been entirely free from the attacks.
Yours truly,
JANE SMITH.
The curative properties of Warner’s Safe Cure are so well known that it is only necessary for anyone to make inquiry for them to hear from the lips of those whom they know many instances of the
healing virtue of this remarkable medicine.
Warner’s Safe Cure acts scientifically. It exercises a specific action upon the liver and kidneys, restoring them to health and activity. When the kidneys and liver are properly performing their
appointed task of extracting the urinary and biliary poisons, all diseases arising from the presence of these poisons in the system are overcome, and the cure effected is radical because it is natural.
The common diseases caused by the presence of urinary and biliary poisons in the system are—
Xtixeumatism
Gout
]Nfeuralgla
Xju.m'bago
Ba.clta.clie
Sciatica
Blood. Disorders
Anasmia
sti
Pin
olio
G-eneral Oelbility
Gravel an d. Stouo
Bladder Biseas 3
Bright’s Biseas j
For the reason stated, Warner’s Safe Cure has complete mastery over all these diseases.


GENERAL
ELECTRIC
COMPANY.
Capital - - - £5,250,000.
Manufactures the Highest Grade of
Electrical Machinery.
THEIR NAME IS A GUARANTEE.
Dynamos, Engines and Motors up to 250 H.P. in Stock.
Lighting and Power Plants for Immediate Delivery.
Arc and Incandescent Lamps and Supplies of all kinds.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC CO.,
Electrical Engineers and Contractors,
SOLE REPRESENTATIVES.
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, Melbourne and Sydney.
9]l
mm
s yD
B
0 e£
ul
£
' A ']/'..\N
%
\"V/k ;
a®
in
villtiy,
%
Hfti
Nto.
Vl'//
Wk»
VllA*
%
1#&V J
Wi:”^
"v 'vm;/;.
' >L
Mm////. ~v
t./.. lr. -
The Largest Photographic Warehouse
I3NT A.XTSTRA.LASIA.
-Cameras from - - - 5/6 to £5O-
375 George-st., Sydney.
260 Collins St.,
MELBOURNE.
65 Rundle St.,
ADELAIDE,
90 Queen St.,
BRISBANE
ENO’
HEALTH GIVING
COOLING,
REFRESHING,
AND INVIGORATING.
SALT.’
THERE IS NO DOUBT THAT where it has been
taken in the earliest stages of a disease, it has, in
innumerable instances, PREVENTED what would other-
wise have been a SERIOUS ILLNESS.
CAUTlON.— capsule marked END’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it you have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only bv J. C. BNO, Ltd., ‘FRUIT SALT WORKS, LONDON, ENG.,
by J. C. ENOS Patent.
A Torturing 1 Liver.
“HN EXPERIMENT.”
“Tho Best Bargain I Ever Made.”
The Case of IVJrs. B. LAWIUV
(by a reporter).
The inventions of paper and the press
have put an end to all the restraints with
which our forefathers were fettered, and
they have not only made everyone a writer,
but have also enabled every mind to pour
itself into print and diffuse itself over the
whole intellectual world. The consequences
are inestimable, as, if the slow and 1 horious
operation of writing on parchment was still
in existence it would be difficult to acquaint
all our readers with such important matters
as are spoken of by Mrs Bridget Law'ler,
of Northwood-street, Camperdown.
“I was once stricken with a terrible
malady,” began that lady. “It was an
attack of rheumatism which stai ted in iiiv
feet and worked its way into my hands, the
pain being so great that the joints felt as if
they were being screwed round in a vice. I
was very stout when I was first taken ill,
but four years’ intense s Tiering took all the
flesh off my body, besides making me very
weak and irritable, tome da\s the pains
were not so bad, while at other times tiny
were so severe that I was a regular cripple
through them, and could not get out of bed.
At the best my limbs were almost useless,
for I had to go from one room to another
on my hands and knees, so that will tell
you how' sorely pressed 1 was.”
“ Did any complications arise?” queried
the newspaper man.
“ They did indeed —any amount of them,
for my system seemed to be upset right
throughout. One of the chief causes of my
weakness was through my food coming back
almost as soon as it was taken, and I hardly
got five minutes’ respite from retching both
day and night. No wonder, then, that my
e .y< s felt swollen and that my sight was bad,
and that I used to lie in a state of exhaustion
for hours, with my head pierced by sharp
pains as if rheumatism was there also. Oh !
it was a wretched time for me, and one
"hi li I would not go through again for
thousands of pounds. I thought the vomit-
ing was (arsed through food being taken
against my inclination, but I was bound to
eat a li tie sometimes, even though my
appetite was gone, or I would have collapsed
altogether. A heavy kind of pain in the
chest was very troiib osome, too, as it
seemed to weigh me down to such an extent
that I could not get my lneath properly,
and thoughts of smothering often entered
my mind, although I was not afraid of
loing so in my sleep, because I very rarely
,'ot any. It was quite an extraordin >ry
went for me to sleep three hours at a time,
md only happened when I was so exhausted
hat even my toi tines could not keep me
awake any longer ; but for all that I did
not feel rested aftei wards, as the nasty
Ireams I had seemed to take away all the
refreshing influences of sleep. When my
eyes opened again I still fcit languid and
heavy and so low spirited and desolate that
ill brigh 'ness seemed to have vanished from
my 'ire. taking any necessary
nourishment my stomach filled out with
wind, thus bringing into force another dis-
comfoit, which frequently developed into
pains like the cramps, and lasting till every-
thing, as usual, W'as vomited. About the
shoulders, too, [ had reason to complain
owing to irritating pains getting a hold
there, wh le nothing could be more un-
welcome than the sickly taste I had in my
mouth every morning, besides having a
whitish c< ating on my tongue. These
symptoms made me understand very clearly
that my liver was deranged to a serious
degree, and I suppose my doctors knew that
as well, but still I did not benefit myself in
any way by remaining under their treat-
ment.”
“ How many doctors did you have ? ”
“It would be very hard for me to say
exactly. Indeed, I had so many that I
cannot remember them all, and I have no
o'! son to keep them in mind, because not
one of them did me any good. The more I
went to the worse I got, and then I started
taking advertised pills and medicines, one
particular kii.d of which having such an
injurious effect upon me that after taking a
certain quantity I was almost paralysed on
one side of my bocty. There was very little
medicine I had not taken more or less of,
but I was now afraid to resort to any of
them again. I went on in misery for a
while without anything, but, being so help-
less that I could not even handle a cup, I
thought I would never get better that way,
and as I had tried everything but Clements
ionic it would not do much harm to see
what that u edicine was like.”
“ W as your experiment attended with any
better results ? ”
“ It was the best bargain I ever made in
my life when I bought some Clements Tonic,,
for there was no uncertainty or indecision,
about its ac i n or my internal organs,
which felt its curative propensities much,
more readily than I had deemed possible.
For a long time past my nerves had been,
very weak, and I was upset and tremulous,
at all sorts of trifling incidents, but that,
was one of my troubles which Clements.
Tonic remedied straight away. My nervous,
system was greatly invigorated after taking
three or four bottles, and then I ceased,
meeting difficulties half-way, for I was so.
much brighter in spirits and more hopeful
through receiving such benefit from,
Clements Tonic that I thought I might yet.
leave my sufferings behind if I gave that
medicine a fair trial. And thus when each
bottle was finished I got another, the-
returns for my outlay being a good healthy
appetite and a steady falling off in my
pains. My headaches did nob last long;
against Clements Tonic, and all the time
my liver symptoms were losing their in-
tensity. 1 slept well at nights, because my
rheumatic pains were less violent, whilst ,
those about my shoulders and chest had.
left altogether, leaving me to breathe with-
out the least distress. I got up with my
mouth free from its objectionable taste, and,
after each meal of the day there was an.
absence of flatulence and consequent pains ;;
but to describe each healthful blessing
vvii'c'u came from every bottle of Clements.
Tunic would, perhaps, take up too much of
your time. I must content myself by sa>-
ing that in a few weeks my internal com-
plaints were quite oblit rated, and I was,
able to get about my w<n k with a cheerful
heart and a contented mind. Thai
strenvthening and disease-removing powers,
of Clements Tonic simply astounded me,
after the many experiences I had with other
medicines, and I would be very ungratef 11
indeed if I k< pt this knowledge to myself.”
“ Did your various pains leave as quickly
as the rest ? ”
“No; but although it took some time to
get me well and strong again in every
respect there is none the less credit due to
Clements Tonic, as it was the only medicine
which wa° able to bring me back to health,
and I am willing to let you publish my story
in any way you like.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Brid3kt Lawlbr, of Northwood-street,
Gamperdown, Sydney, in the State of New
South Wales, Commonwealth of Australia, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, consisting
of four folios, and consecutively numbered from one
to four, and that it contains and is a true and faithful
account of my Illness and cure by Clements Tonic,
and also contains my full permission to publish in any
way my statements-which I give voluntarily, and
without receiving any payment; and I make this
solemn declaration conscientiously believing the
same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of
the Oaths Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Camperdown, this
twentyfifth day of March, one thousand nine hundred
and two, before me,
ROBERT ELSTUB, J.P.
MOIR’S
Table-Jelly Powder
In Pint Packets. Assorted Flavours.
Manufacturers:
JOHN MOIR & SON, LIMITED,
LONDON, ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE.
Head Office— 9 & 10, Great Tower Street, London, E.C.
Just
Published.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER
Harry Morant,
His ’Ventures
and Verses.
Price 1/1
Post
Free.
Y By FRANK RBNAR. \f Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney.


“Much alarm
and anxiety”
«ge was anesmio and so weak
that he was unable to walk ”
After you have tried nearly every remedy
under the sun for your delicate child, whose
health is far from satisfactory, it might be
a good idea to profit by the experience of
others; such, for example, as is revealed in
the following letter: —
“60, Oathnor Road, Shepherd’s Bush,
“ London, England, 6th Dec., 1900.
<i Rear Sirs, —I cannot overrate the great
benefits my little boy (four years of age)
has derived from taking Scott’s Emulsion.
His health, previous to taking the prepara-
tion, had caused me much alarm and anxiety.
He was anaemic and had convulsive fits,
and was so weak that he was unable to
walk. His appetite went completely, and
he seemed to me to be in quite a hopeless
state. Hearing that Scott’s Emulsion was
iff*
/> At'
' *’* *'+yh
'i ' vl
7
/
•{J-i
WILLIAM DAVID BOXELL.
(From a photograph.)
considered a very beneficial preparation for
weakly and delicate children, I resolved to
try it for my little boy. lam truly thank-
ful I did so, seeing the wonderful change
for the better it has wrought in my boy’s
case. He does not seem like the same
child. He is now fat, strong, and always
happy and cheerful, and can walk long
distances without even complaining of pain
or weariness.—Yours faithfully,
“ (Signed) Kate A. Boxell.”
Of course, we think it better to take
Scott’s Emulsion at the outset of treatment
when children first show wasting tendencies.
We think that Scott’s Emulsion was em-
ployed in the foregoing case about as soon
as its merits were known to the mother, and
the result of the treatment certainly was
satisfactory. In Scott’s Emulsion you
have a remedy whose merits are well
known, and have been thoroughly tested
for more than thirty years. It is not like
any other form of cod-liver oil, and no
matter what anybody may tell you, it
certainly will prove to be true that greater
benefits will be derived from Scott’s Emul-
sion than from any other emulsion, or
from any other form of cod-liver oil.
Depend upon it there is something about
Scott’s Emulsion which brings back health
when other remedies have failed.
You can obtain a sample of Scott’s Emulsion
by sending fourpence to Scott & Bowne, Ltd.,
483 Kent-street, Sydney, and mentioning this
paper. All chemists sell Scott’s Emulsion.
NOTICE OF REMOVAL.
JOHN WALKER # SONS, LTD.,
Distillers and Spirit Merchants
of Kilmarnock, Scotland . . .
Bey to announce that they have REMOVED their
Sydney Branch Office
to
No. 9 PHILLIP STREET
(near the Circular Quay),
where they have also OPENED an extensive
BOTTLING WAREHOUSE
for Bottling their Whisky in Bond, under the
supervision of H.M. Customs.
55
8
y,V'>
SOX
FRINGES
Made of 'the Best Natural Curly Hair,
from 3s. lid., ss. 6d., 7s, 6d., Bs. 6d.
to 10s. 6d. each,
|W. H, WIGZELL
110 WILLIAM STREET,
f PLAITS YDNEY - TAILS
fgOin. long,-ss, 6d.; 20in., extra thick,
7s. 6d.
22in., 10s. Od.; 22in., extra thick, 12s. 6d.
24in., 15s. 6d.; 21in., extra thick, 18s. 6d.
26in., 205.; 26in., extra thick, 15s.
28in., 305.; 30in., 355.; 30'n., extra thick,4os.
Our Plaits and Tails are twice as thlcls as,
those sold elsewhere for the same money,
WIGS MADE TO ORDER.
BAIRWOB.K. PBIY £K£S I'd OIM SXAXES.
Australian
Provident Society
Established 1840.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and O.P. (oomblned) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or Hew Zealand,
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest?
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per cent,
of the loan during any year without notice or pay ment of any fine.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 10s,
H. Hiilier,
130 tJuSooX-st,
SYDNEY.
gST Rend for a
Catalogue.
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15a.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Susscx-street.
W : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY,
buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
bv return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Sendfor Catalogue. Agents wanted
PLAYER’S
WORLD
FAMED
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
; :V
§§S
'"H"i
WHOLESALE
Distributing Agents
New South Wales —
M. RUTTY & CO.,
SYDNEY.
Victoria—
j. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia—
Hart, Lawrence & Co.
Propy. Ld., Adelaide
Western Australia —
Lionel Samson & Son,
Fremantle
Queensland —
Thos. Brown & Sons, Ld.
Brisbane
Burns, Philp & Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania —
Watchorn Bros.,
Hobart
rfohn McKenzie & Co.,
Launceston
New Zealand—
D. Benjamin Sl Co.
Dunedin, Wellington
and Christchurch.
*\**
Sauce
r'X'/'C/A/Afl
t////**•/***/*
fUM
S66S'
■m
m
o=3
//•
, I
Zi
K 27
3L'/*
///////1 • NVVVWV
The basis of which is “Montserrat” Lime-Fruit Juice.
Far Superior to
all other (Sauces.
.
4G£WS-Elllott Bros. Ltd., J. Connell & Co., D. Mitchell & Co., Sydney.
D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.
MARTELLS
“A genuine
old Brandy
made from
Wine.”
Medical Press.
THREE STAR
“Particularly suitable
for Medicinal
Purposes.”
15.3 Lancet.
BRANDY.
IM.S.W.
Carriage &
Saddlery Manuf. Company
When In town, pay us a visit. Do you want a,
SULKY BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description oi
SADDLERY! If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, P 5; 2-Spnn<r Sulkies, £7;
3-Sprint; Sulkies, t 7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies'' the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Dmihle’ Bundies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s Ladies' Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and everv descriptionof vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
criDtion at the verv Lowest Prices. Send us your
address and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catafo-ue and Price List. NOTICE.-Do not bo
misled by any linns who say they will deliver tor less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay lo Pof
cent more for your requirements.
193 to 195 Clevelaud-street, Redfern. SYDitf^Y
OUB SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
Delivered at any Wharf or
X.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Price 6s,
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
BY
“Steele Rudd.”
Love-Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
An Old Refrain.
If all the stars were mine, my dear, if all the
stars were mine,
I ne’er could keep such galaxies of jewels
crystalline;
I’d sooner they were God’s, as now, those kindly
lights divine.
What use were gems like these to me, if haply
they were mine ?
Ah, ret them hold their distant march across the
midnight skies,
To light the paths of wayfarers whose hopes with
them may rise !
For, even if my own they were, I’d leave them
there to shine.
If all the stars were mine, my dear, if all the stars
were mine.
What gain to me to rob the world of all its guard ’
ing stars,
Orion’s flashing belt of gems, the crimson crest of
_Tars,
The Morning Star, the Star of Eve, the splendors
of the Cross ?
For, even so, my own brief gain would be the
whole world’s loss.
If all the stars were mine, and if I held the skies
in fee,
’Twould be a sorrow to the world, and yet no joy
to me;
I dare not take the only friends of those whose
hope is gone,
Who have no comrades, save the stars —so let the
stars shine on!
If all the stars were mine, my dear, if all the stars
were mine,
I’d change their light for your grey eyes, my
choice to them confine ;
For nearer than the stars they gleam, and dearer
far they shine —
If all the stars were mine, my dear, if all the stars
were mine!
VIC.
PONEMAH.
In Port.
We sailed, and sailed, for we made for an unknown
port,
In our faces the laughing showers of snow-soft
spray;
And many a haven we hailed, where the primrose
paled
On the verdant banks of rivers, that wound away,
Like silver threads, through the emerald woof of
land;
Or lilied cataracts leapt to the golden strand ;
Till my sailors cried, “We are weary of work and
toil—
Let us land, and play awhile with Destiny.
But, ever m warning, the voice of the wandering
wind
Sang in the sails, “Not nere the port for thee ! ”
But we sighted a land in the glow of the golden
dawn,
Where roses trailed from the summits down to
the sea;
And I cried, “O comrades! set sail, set sail no
» more ! ”
For I knew, at last, that this was the port for
me.
There, daughter of roses, yet Queen of them all,
she went.
Whom long I had sought, and I whispered my
heart’s content.
For, swept by Love’s own swift tide, on the wave
of Fate,
Through storm, and sun, and peril of flood and
fire,
The ship of my life had come to an anchor at last,
O’er the bar of Hope, in the Harbor of Heart’s
Desire.
QUEENSLAND.
PURPLES.
Sic Passim.
I stand amid the shadows, ever lengthening,
And watch the white grass sweeping towards the
west ;
And, while I gaze, the inner light seems
strengthening;
The sunlit slopes a pathway down to rest.
The wealth of gold beyond the hill-line sinking,
The soft, pale stars that one by one come winking,
The old, old thoughts that I am ever thinking,
Drink up the years that close upon me prest.
Old days, when Youth was such a thing of
wonder,
When through the mirrored moonlight on we sped,
No power divine, above the stars or under,
Could stay our fairy barge as on she fled.
You whispered then that e’en when softly sleeping,
That last close sleep that follows after weeping,
Your heart would wake to life with its wild leaping
At my warm lips and reverential tread.
Ah ! I have learned that those, whose puny power
Seemed god-like in my simple faith to me,
Are but the higher-lifted waves that lower
Upon the lowly wavelets on'Life’s sea.
And all into that common trough axe'falling
i The unexplored depths of Death appalling,
Wherein are strange and unknown voices calling,
And mystic faces that we vaguely see.
Ah, Love of mine ! I’ve felt the iron fingers
Close wrung about my heart that quivers still ;
And in my inert palm e’en now still lingers
Your clinging touch that made my pulses thrill.
Ah ! through the silver silence softly sighing
Come once again with all the love-light lying
In those deep eyes of yours like sunsets dying
A lingering death in winter waters chill.
Ah, Sweet! my weary feet have lost their cunning,
They slip and stray in many a darksome place ;
And how the old strains through my mind are
running,
And wond’rous clearly shines your angel face.
Come from your couch of marble-hearted flowers—
Ah ! lead me to the light that richly dowers
That far-off distance with its golden showers,
i And I am well content to lose the race.
VIC.
ELSIE LINACRE.


ORNAMENTAL NAIR
e “»- English,
Aventa D ?' S T Cripfciori in Stock.
m- 8 ™ fo * the R °y al Lounge Hairdressing Ohair
Every Requisite for Saloon Usb in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia.
& AXM?Tnmvr
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply
__6Bo-682 George Street, Sydney.
WANTED
I P T.° U ARE SUFFERING from any of the following
ailments, viz., Rheumatism, Sciatica, Vital Weak-
ness, Liver Complaint, Dyspepsia, Lame Back or
Debility, Kidney Disease or any Organic Dbrange-
we ] vant y° u t 0 wear one of our ELECTRIC
BELTS, and when CURED to let other sufferers know
a our ELECTRIC BELTS will permanently CURE
when all other Remedies have FAILED. We prefer those
cases who have failed to obtain relief elsewhere. Send
us a description of your case, and size around the waist
next to skin. Address—
ARTHUR HALE & SON, Medical Galvanists,
44 Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
London Address: 105 Regent Street, W.
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
1 will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney
“Sending, mention this paper.
Health, Strength and Vigror Restored
Four Weeks by the use of
in
06 RX CORO’S
ESS£** CE °f y.\ P &']
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
l)r. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health and Strenqth
to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame .
In cases of 12s. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope
Agents for Australasia— PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St..
Melbourne ; Wholesale Agents for New South Wales —
F. H. Faulding & Co., 16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
cud
The New Patent
.SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
■and Head Noises, no matter of
■how long standing. Are the same
' t° the ears as glasses are to the
ey es - Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free. @
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
DR, J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
rNLORODYNE.
Caution.— Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS
DIARRHOEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS at
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forma
its best recommendation."
BOUGHS
Powell’s Balsam
of Aniseed.
SAFE AND RELIABLE—
Gives Immediate Relief.
MA^*‘
FOR 78 YEARS
THE POPULAR REMEDY FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza, and all Lung Troubles.
r 5 the Phle g m immediately, and removes
tne tickling sensation in the Throat, which de-
pnves.sty many'of rest during the night. It also
Strengthens the Voice and Cures Hoarseness.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers,
But see the well-known Trade Mark—Lion, Net
and Mouse—is on each wrapper.
Prepared only by Thomas Powell. Ltd.,
k Biackfriars, London, S.E. A
Discovered by Christopher Mudd, F.L.S., F.R.G.S., M.B.Ph.S., London, Botanist to the King of
England during His Majesty’s Indian Tour.
Eczema OLEAO
ANTHOS
FOR
•the
HAIR
Cures this terrible itching complaint.
Not a grease. Does not stain the linen.
Full directions each jar. Jars, 4/6; post, 4/10
Used in the Melbourne Homoeopathic
Hospital with success.
Not a Grease, purely Botanical.
Written testimony from well-known medical men.
One bottle in daily use lasts about 4 months.
“Anthos” prevents Hair falling out, Dandruff,
and Irritation. Bottles, 2/6 ; posted, 3/3.
„ „ OBTAINABLE FROM
Melbourne : Foy & Gibson and all Chemists.
Sydney: Pattinson & Co. (all branches).
Park & Son, is 6 Pitt Street.;
Depot : M. H. Horwitz, 34 Pitt Street.
ALL CHEMISTS AND
New Zealand: C. L. Best, Ponsonby, Auckland.
Adelaide: Harris & Kemp, Arcade.
Brisbane: Taylor & Colledge Ltd.
Perth: Foy & Gibson.
Colonial Representative : Fred. J. E. Phillips, 317. Collins Street, Melbourne.
WOOL. PRODUCE. GRAIN.
The New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Coy., Ltd., SYDNEY,
•A.CT A.S SELLING- BROKERS ONLY.
Consignors are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of this Company.
WOOL
COMMISSION FOR SELLING THREE-QUARTERS (f) PER CENT.
WAREHOUSING
'(lncluding Receiving into Store, Fire Insurance,
Weighing, Lotting, Repacking, Sample Bales,
Advertising, Cataloguing, etc.) on Wool real-
ising over SIXPENCE per lb. the charges
will be
On Wools realising SIXPENCE and over Four-
pence per lb. ... :
On Wools realising FOURPENCE per ib. and
under
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. 6d. per Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
Perfect System of Weighing-. Way Bills sent on Application.
PRODUCE
SALES of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, etc., HELD WEEKLY.
WHEAT.
Every inducement is offered growers to consign their grain for realisation by the Company
Ample accommodation is provided. Three months free storage is allowed. Circulars are sent when
desired giving cost of railage and full particulars as to Charges, Advances, etc., etc.
AGENTS POE. McDOU GALL’S SHEEP DIP.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL, you enjoy YOUR LUNCH
George and Market Sts.,
SYDNEY.
APARTMENTS:
BEDROOM (single), 3s. per DAY.
BEDROOM (double), 6s. per DAY.
Single Room, with Pull Board, Bs. per
day, or £2 2s. per week.
TERMS. —The convenient
system of paying for the
room on arrival and
meals as they are had.
When you come to Roberts’ Hotel
Dining Rooms ; and you not only
enjoy it, but it does you good as
well. There is always a large and
tempting variety of excellent food on
our menu, and on Fridays there is a
special fish luncheon for those who
want it in addition to the ordinary.
The luncheon is ready at twelve
o’clock sharp—from Is.—and there
is first-class attendance. Dinner and
tea from 5.30 to 7.3 o—from Is.
upwards. Silver grill at work.
J. BARTRAM & SON
34 & 36 Market Street, Sydney
(Corner of
Clarence Street)
23 3S!iug Strcstj 3\Xel t a on ~r» r-* «=».,
SOLE AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES . . .
The ENGLISH DE LAVAL STEAM TURBINE CO. LTD., Leeds.
Makers of Steam Turbines, Turbine Dynamos, Turbine Pumps, Turbine Fans.
(Over 80,000 Horse-power in use.)
Messrs. GREENWOOD & BATLEY LTD., Albion Works, Leeds.
Machine Tool Manufacturers and Electrical Engineers, Dynamos, Motors, Pumps, etc.
/Messrs. CONNOLLY BROS. LTD,, Manchester.
insulated Cables, Wires, Tapes, etc.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “ PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 86 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1902 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; is 6d post
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards illus.
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete). 3s 6d posted
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk Is 9d
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is. ’
The Art of Wrestling, post Is. Hoyle’s Games, post 2/6
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor Is
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted. Camille Is 3d I
Secret History of the Court of England, 1/6 post free’
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted’ i
Lover s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, is 3d. The Amateur Photographer Is 3d !
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history) Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post. I
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.' I
How to Read Heads (Jas. Ooates), Is 6d posted.
Ciievasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Sons Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted. Sappiio, Is.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write hib for any Book you want.
The Wife’s Handbook, Is 2d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance. Is 3d.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s posted.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music complete), Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d posted.
Send for my Illustrated Big: Book
Catalogue— post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney,
GOUT
PILLS.
F°R GOUT,
RHEUMATISM.
SQBATIOA,
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Pbout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
“Don’t shout”
" I hear you. I can hear now
as well as anybody.
" ‘ How ?' Oh some
thingnew— The Wilson
Common-sense Bar-
Drum. I've a pair in my
ears now, you can't see them
they're invisible. 1 wouldn't
know I had them in myself,
only that 1 hear all right."
The Wilson Ear-Drum is
really a substitute for the
working parts of the
natural ear. Has no
wire Invisible, easy to ad
just, comfortable Totally
different from any other de-
vice Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request
.»■ CUAintRSt. 229-231 Collins SI., Helo.,
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
With Patent RUBBER FEE f
and HANDS.
Sole Agents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English
American and made to order
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belli
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, &c.
DENVER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers
281 CEORCE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
Vapor Bath Cabinets.
Price, 25/-
Ilead and Face Steamer, 3/6
Carriage paid to any railway station
on direct route in Victoria, N.S.W.,
and S.A., or any seaport town.
We also have a better quality
Cabinet at 45/- (Head and Face
Steamer/ree to advertise this line).
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY,
229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne,
Hypnotism
Reader, why not he able to use the
most mysterious and powerful force of
nature? By my method you can learn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all the many marvellous feats
tl»at are possible to the Hypnotist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain; win reluctant affection,
gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explains
the mysteries and secrets
of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
, and expensive thing of the kind
ever published. For a short
time I wiil send this .magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed on
receipt of 6d. (stamps) to cover
postage. Order to-day and learn
to Hypnotize. It is a chance of
a life- time. A ddress—
Prof. R. H. BARRA DEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
For Asthmatic people who suffer from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault’s Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
GRIM AULT & Co., Paris. Sold by all Chemists.
>
>
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, aud all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdestre & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all 1
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists 1
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys '
all Parasites of Head or Body. ,
sold in TWO sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d. (
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur. '
Prepared by Poingdestre & Truman, !
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all <
Chemists in the Australian Colouies. J


6 b
Ik IllflDET
KIOP eoob
i
• if 5, ** , * £
■ -
f.
Y
.
PD
PD I
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
CORSETS
P.D.
CORSETS
»
The Recognised Standard
HIGH-CLASS CORSETS
. »,
LATEST SPECIAL!
Straight Front
Erect Form.
Obtainable from Leading Drapers
Everywhere.
Avoid Inferior Imitations, and see that each
pair bears the Manufacturer’s “Trade Mark” on
band inside, as above.
V L
SY. --.N't
mm,
m
Tut c
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
THE GREAT EVENT.
HATTE’S CORONATION FAIR
rrHE King: rules by right of descent over Millions of Free-born Britishers, and Hatte, by virtue of
1 Good Valuej exercises a gentle sway over the Ladies of New South Wales. Just now—
The Great Coronation Fair is on
And the People of both High and Low Degree are Rejoicing.
There are £250,000 of Absolute FAIRING BARGAINS and 400 Highly Efficient
Assistants waiting to give a ROYAL WELCOME to the LOYAL LEIGES
of THE KING OF THE DRAPERY TRADE.
Ladies ! come early to the Fair (it will console you for being absent from Westminster), and
send for a Fair Book—the Greatest Bargain List ever published.
—C. G. HATTE, Newtown.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
PLAYS
Catalogue
Free . . .
French’s Acting Edition.
Rare Books
French Novels
Books the Married
Extra Special Catalog ue of
Hooks Eree.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
ftsrroßs to the old country
GLOUCESTER ROAD,
SOUTH KE/SSIfMTQfL
LO/SIDOfiSW.
Under Rrtronage.
THE NEW X.OUKGI!.
One of the FINEST
in London.
Self-Contained Suites.
PLEASANT PRIVATE GARDEN.
THE MOST COMFORTABLE HOTEL IN LONDON.
. TRADE MARK .
Fox Bros. & Co., Ltd. , warn
the Public that their Trade
Mark consists
ONLY
of the word
FOX
which is a guarantee of sound*
ness of material and Quality
of Dye of all
Worsted Coatings,
Serges I tweeds
on which it is stamped.
As the result of many years
of experience
fox’s Pure 3nSigo Dye
is recognised as the best in the
market. All FOX*S standard
cloths are stamped every two
yards on the back
FOX
PURE INDIGO
and without this stamp are
not genuine. These celebrated
serges can be obtained from the
leading Tailors and Drapers
throughout the Colonies.
FOX BROS. & Co., Ltd.,
Wellington, Somerset, Eng.
Reader, do you wish to know how to
make more money, obtain greater
happiness, have better health, and
achieve greater success in life? It is
our business to help others—we are
specialists in this line. Will you permit
us to help you? It costs you nothing
until we prove what we can do. We
will send you our elegantly illustrated
ONE HUNDRED PAGE BOOK FREE.
This remarkable work thoroughly in-
structs you in the underlying principles
of success in every business and calling;
it tells you how to cure every known
disease and bad habit without the aid of
drugs, medicine, or the surgeon’s knife.
It fully reveals the hidden mysteries of
LEARN
AT
HOME
FREE
HYPNOTISM, PER-
SONAL MAGNETISM
MAGNETIC HEAL-
ING, etc. It tells you
how you can quickly
master these sciences
in a few days at your
own home and use this
mighty power on your
friends and associates
entirely without their
knowledge —new and instantaneous
methods which enable anyone to hypno-
tise quick as a flash. We guarantee
success or forfeit One Thousand Dollars
ingold. This wonderful book has proved
the turning point in the lives of hundreds
of persons who were ready to give up in
despair. Tho.usands-owe- their health,
happiness, and financial success to its
teachings. It is full of wonderful secrets
and startling surprises. It will be sent
to any address absolutely free. A l£d.
postal card will bring it. Address,
NEW YORK INSTITUTE of SCIENCE,
Dept. 823, Rochester, N.Y., U.S.A.
OF INTEREST to MEN
DEAR SIR,—I have been cured of Weakness and De
bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
l e pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHURST,
»>■++ Street, Sydney.
DRUNK
ENNESS
CURED
Absolutely Conquered in 20 Days.
IUTSee my proposition to the Government,
November Bth, 1901, wherein I agree to
accept 100 Test Cases, and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home treatment
within the reach of all. No restrictions, no
hypodermic injections. Full particulars free.
W. LANGSTON, M.R.c.s.. Bn*,
68 Russell St., Melbourne.
I’ll Try It.”
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Eapillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 108. 6d.
SOM AGENTS.
49
The Result.
CRAIG &. AITKEN,
House, 680-682 GEORGE
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply
STREET, BYDNEY.
T°,®V tcS ’ 4
"S&>
O‘A
E« ca,J *
. cvJ« eS
\s*i ro \&s-
catt°"; atvd C °'
uo tio ns '
IW°
The Roman
Hair
Restorer
Produces Brown and Black Hair.
Price 1/6 ; by post, 2/3. „
An inexpensive and
certain preparation for
renewing and restoring
'to its original color the
hair of the head, beard
and whiskers.
Largely used by the Roman ladles for presenring their
magnificent tresses. Nourishes the roots and removes
dandruff ; increases the quantity, and renders it glossy
and supple; does not stain the skin nor soil the linen. If
your hair is falling off or turning grey, use this.
CAUTION. —This being different from most prepara-
tions, other kinds should be refused.
JAMES BRINSMEAD and CO., Chemists, ST. HILDA.
All Chemists sell it.
THE FINEST TONIC
PER BRAVAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated dropt.
PER BRAVAIS
PER BRAVAIS’
most effective in
restoring the vitality
| of the blood,and ena-
bling the constitution
to resist climatio
influences.
! Invaluable in all
i cases of anaemia and
1 general debility.
Highly recommended
for weak and
1 debilitated children.
LANCET. “A beautiful and interesting
preparation."
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-“/</iai all
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
it does not blacken the teeth"
SOI.D BY CHEMISTS AI.L THE WORLD OVER.
WHOLESALE: Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette-
The WORLD-RENOWNED . . .
Professor N. R FINSEN,
The Great Danish Scientist,
Discoverer of the Wonderful Cure for LUPUS and SKIN
DISEASES by the aid of the Sun’s Rays, has made even
a still more marvellous discovery in the
HAEMATIN - ALBUMIN
TABLETS.
A Cure -for Poverty of Blood, Anaemia and
Weakness of the Human System, NO MATTER
THROUGH WHAT CAUSE ARISING, and this Remedy
is now placed on this market by the manufacturers
through their representatives, and is obtainable
From all Chemists.
3s. 6d. per BOX of 70 TABLETS—I 2 DAYS’ SUPPLY*
35 YEARS PROVEN EFFICACY.
TA*e
w
gates*
•»n>° e
Co iri Pi Utl \
iil&?
OF (MEANSIS
jhbouchoutGREAT BRITAIN i rut COLONIES
’IINUM CaTHARHCUM PlllS (Wl/Vi-ylllfk
usE CO AC UUNE •
Transparent Cement for au ßroken Articles
SLATER’S DETECTIVES.” Acknowledged by
both the Pres 3 and the Public to h§ the'finest <
organisation of Male and Female Detective talent in the ;
World for private inquiries. Representatives in every
town on earth. Consultations Free. HENRY SLATER
Manager, No. 1 BASINGHALL STREET, LONDON
ENGLAND. Cables, “ Distance,” London.


SB
w
M
S 3
AARON’S
Exchange Hotel Qo.,
SYDNEY.
Tli e system of paying for Room only and
Meals as required is adopted here.
£3 3s. per Week
9s. per Day
GORDON MARE, Secretary.
W. W. AIKEN, Manager,
28 Years in the Establishment.
Kindly
Send for
Illustrated
Catatogue.
All Goods
Forwarded
Postage
Free.
Jewellers* Opticians
| Sfae' x
[ 9dKing ST, Sydney. 1
Newest Gold
BROOCHES.
Gold, set with Pearls and Turquoise, 15/-, 25/-.
Gold, Pearl Bird, Amethyst Centre, 17/6.
Bet. set with Rubies or Sapphires & Diamonds, 4S^-
Solid*Gold, Pearl and Ruby or Sapphire set, 15/-
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
Hennessy’s
Old Battle Axe
Brand
is
Known
and
Appreciated
all the
World
Over.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
mi
■
m
-V
Win
i
u
V
: >'A
i
tsii
m
m
m
i
m
<ED
'/S
c*
3>i —v X S\
'A
S3 . w*. ~ A. .t.r
Sfe
Bl'
. •■: ' : -. ; ' ,
'Kio:%
■m
mz
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments may be
secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards.
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted on applica-
tion to The Manager.
to
m
iif
WIQHTMAN’S.
BEACONSFIELP HOTEL
Beaconsfield Parade, St. Kilda, Melbourne.
FIRST-CLASS ACCOMMODATION for Visitors and Per-
manent Boarders. Situated in the healthiest part ol
St. Kilda, facing the sea. Hot and Cold Sea Baths. Fifteen
minutes from Melbourne—tram or train. Reasonable Tariff.
Special terms for families and permanent boarders.
Telephone 65 Windsor Exchange.
The Bulletin Reciter:
By Eighty (80) Bulletin Bards. With Illustrations by “ Hop,” N. Lindsay,
A. J. Fischer, F. Leist, D. H. Souter, and H. McCrae. In handsome cloth,
decorated. Price, 55.; postage, 4d.
MACHINERY
MERCHANTS,
WHOLESALE IRONMONGERS,
And Importers of
Engines, Boilers, Pumps, Wood*
working Machines, Engineers’
Supplies, Blacksmith and
Coachbuilders’ Requisites, Pipes
and Fittings, Boiler Tubes, Gun
Metal and Brasswarefor Steam
and Water, Household and
Builders’ Ironmongery, Agri-
cultural Implements, Horse
Gears, Chaff Cutters, &c.
m
&
Brisbane,
t)EAD
rFJCE-
WRISBAN
sy
WL
Smellie&c
m
UUM
Stofuu
VALLC.Y
[foßTn Queensland BrancK
|OWNSVIIIL
North Queensland Warehouse:
Stanley & Sturt Sts., Townsville.
Also at
Hew Broad St. House, London, EX.
AGENTS FOR
ROBEY & CO., Portable
Steam Engines.
W B. HAIOH & CO., Saw*
mill Machinery.
G WYNNE’S Centrifugal Pumps
PEARN’S Manchester Steam
Pumps.
DUPLEX Steam Pumps.
SCOTT’S Steel Mining Ropes.
FRANK VIAL & SON Leather
Belting.
WAUKEGAN Barb Wire.
PLANET JR. Implements.
AER MOTOR Windmills.
KEROSENE OIL ENGINES.
3XTESW
HIG-iHE GRADE PLPG
TOBACCO.
World
Renowned
CAPSTAN
Is now supplied IN
PLUG
FORM in addition to Gut.
TRY IT!
The Highest Grade Tobacco sold within the Commonwealth.
TRY IT!


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 23.—N0. 1170.
SATURDAY, JULY 19, 1902.
Price Id.
ViiCOUMI HirCREMfR'S HOTEL
THE REAL SPIRIT OP THE
SYDNEY ILLUMINATIONS.
The sea-serpent has turned
up again in Sydney D.T.
office—and none too soon.
S’African war - news has
petered out, and no niggers
having been roasted alive in
the States for several days,
the cables have been very
tome. Good old sea-serpent!
GEORGE REID ON TOUR.
At Horsham (Vic.) he was •• intro-
duced to a gentleman who was almost a
perfect doable of Mr. Reid. He is of
exactly the same proportionate build, has
the same features, the same forehead, the
same light, scanty, fair hair, the same
moustache. ”
This is not the firet time Mr. Reid has
mot his double.
The curse has come home to roost. It*
perch in country towns.
I THE TAIL WILL WAQ THE .*
I ** If the colonies assume a greater burden of
Imperial defence,” says the Duke of Devonshire,
| “ they will be entitled to a larger participation
in the policy of the Empire.”
I! Jir YELLOW PUP YAPPINGS.
at Sydney Town Hall last Sunday affceraopn,
A Voice : What about Toby Barton 1 (Laughter ),
Mr. Rutledge: “He haa got a medaL (Renewed
laughter.) Some people call him, familiarly, 1 Toby * j I
think we ought to call him ‘ Toady * Barton.” (Cheers.)
“ The Premier of our Commonwealth hah no right
to go toadying to the Pope. (Loud cheers.) When
he returns he will get a warm time in many
quarters. (Renewed cheers.) If he does not,
V it will be all shame to our noble institution
T"-*. that we should allow such a thing to
Y-j take place. Yon know there are.
TV favors to oome, and we will keep our
eyes upon him.”
“ Let me tell you about Barton.
I say this, that the Pope’s existence
SwM. should be ignored by every Pro-
testant who goes to Italy, and if
Mr.. Barton were only true to hi*
country, he would never have aalled
yt upon him*?’ (Cheers.)
fyfV/HfS-po 3/t#x : /o£y y Coy/w<f To Tq>vai{
CARTOONLETS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Btd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUB SCR TBS RV
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
Hotice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralla and Maorilan.d.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscriber's in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of\\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage — 1 id. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of Tiie Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to 3 F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where, practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand, that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
San Francisco. — L. E. Lee, Palace Hotel:
South Africa. — B. A. Thompson and Co., S Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. E. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Ilout-st., Capetown. Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
SATURDAY, JULY 19, 1902.
The Bonus Bill Again.
The Senate treated the Iron Bonus Bill just
as badly as did the House of Representa-
tives, and the proposed new industry is
apparently dead. The experts who came
out to inaugurate the big new works at
Rithgow (N.S. W.) propose leaving for Europe
again,, and even the small old works where
Sandfokd. used to melt down scrap-iron are
partially closed up. Some of the men who
used to be employed there, and very many
who might have been employed there, are
getting, or seeking, relief on unprofitable
public works paid for out of loans. And it
is mentioned with pride by the alliance of
the rich importers and their dupes, the
Labor party, that the attempt “ to devote
the general taxpayers’ money towards helping
to start a new industry for the benefit of a
few ” has collapsed. It isn’t much to be
proud of, but the Labor party, and the rich
importers who use Labor as their catspaw,
are .apparently much gratified.
* * * *
If the Lithgow works had been estab-
lished, it is reckoned that the industry would
have supported 3000 men. Probably it would
have supported more, for in addition to
the employment at the works there must be
reckoned the men who get out the coal and
the ore used at the works, the seamen and
railway employees who carry it, and others.
These 3000 men would have given employ-
ment to probably 2000 or 3000 more,
builders, carpenters, agriculturists, police-
men, gaolers, doctors, preachers, boot-
makers, tailors, grocers, publicans, and
sundries. Five or six thousand men and
their wives and families would represent
over 20,000 people. From them the State (
would get about £BO,OOO or £lOO,OOO a year
in Federal, State, and local taxes, so that the
industry would more than pay its own bonus
by the time the bonus became payable.
There was nothing speculative about the
business, so far as it concerned the country.
The bonus was to be granted on results only,
and these people would necessarily be
employed and paid, and these taxes collected,
before the bonus money was handed out.
It wasn’t like building railways into the dry
wilderness to develop agriculture where the
bonus is paid first, and the results may, or
may not, come later on. No saleable mono-
poly was to be handed over, as in the case of
a railway or tramway concession. The new
industry would have to compete against any-
body else who liked to open up a similar
industry. As an attempt to burden the
general taxpayer for the benefit of a few, it
was a very small and harmless affair.
* • * *
The grievance about burdening the general
taxpayer for the benefit of a few, which
always arises when any proposal for the
creation of a new manufacture is mooted,
is strangely at variance with the policy
of the Labor crowd and the Freetrade
crowd in other matters. For years and
years N.S. W., Tasmania and Westralia taxed
the general public to make up a postal deficit
which arose through carrying newspapers
free by post, to the great benefit of a few
newspaper owners—how great their benefit
was may be learned when it is noticed that
the newspaper circulation through the post
in free-postage N.S.W. is more than twice
that in Victoria. N.S.W., in its alleged
Freetrade days, protected the sugar in-
dustry for the benefit of a few sugar-
growers. It gave enormous protection to beer
for the benefit of 920 persons employed in
the beer industry. It protected confectionery
works for the benefit of 706 persons, and
biscuit factories for the benefit of 830, and
tobacco factories for the benefit of 800. It
pays a perpetual annual bonus of about
£40,000 at the cost of the general taxpayer,
to provide about 40,000 people with a South
Coast railway. It taxes the mass of the
people to the extent of over £40,000 a year
to provide 22,000 people with an unpayable
line to Cooma. It burdens the general tax :
payer to the extent of nearly £30,000 a year
by way of bonus to an unprofitable railway
up by the Tweed River, which is built for
the good of about 10,000 people. The
£25,000 a year of bonus paid to keep the
Mudgee line open is a perpetual tax on all
N.S.W. for the benefit of 15,000 people—
less than the proposed Lithgow ironworks
would probably have supported. Every time
a Labor member brings a deputation of un-
employed to the Ministry to ask for aid he
is demanding that the general taxpayer
shall be burdened for the benefit of a few—
but so long as the benefit done to the few is
not in the shape of productive and per-
manent labor, but has a stigma of temporary
pauperism attached to it, the Labor member
appears to have no objection whatever.
* * * •
It is impossible, on its past record, to
suppose that the N.S.W. section, at all
events, of the Labor party objected to the
proposed Lithgow ironworks because they
were to be partly English-owned. The
railways, tramways, telegraphs, telephones,
post-offices—all the reproductive public
works Australia possesses—are really owned
in England, and Australia is simply in
possession as manager on behalf of the mort-
gagee. The Labor party has made no attempt
whatever to disturb this state of things.
Australia is overrun by English-owned banks,
fire insurance companies, land companies,
mortgage companies, &c., and, in N.S.W.
at all events, the Labor party has
made no serious effort to shift any
of them by an absentee-tax or other legisla-
tion. In theory it objects to monopoly, but
in the coastal districts of N.S.W.—the
richest part of the State—the big estates are
steadily increasing, largely by reason of an
undemocratic land-tax, introduced by a Minis-
try which the Labor party kept in office,
and the party makes no real endeavour to
differentiate against the big landlord, the
rack-renting landlord, and the absentee
landlord. The N.S.W. Labor party, though
it holds the balance of power, doesn’t try to
this day to so alter the land-tax that it will
do some much-needed injury to the land
monopoly—even when represented by the
great English companies which hold so much
of the best agricultural portion of the State.
But against the only partly-English concern
which wasn’t a monopoly—which proposed
coming here to compete for a bonus which
was open to all—which must necessarily, to
earn that bonus, have employed much Aus-
tralian labor, a thing the big English land
companies are seldom guilty of—which would
have to pay good wages as fixed by the
N.S.W. Arbitration Court, and to observe
the local Eight-hours rule —against it the
wrath of the Labor party rose immediately.
It was calculated to interfere with the busi-
ness of the English importing firms in
Sydney, and any such interference is ana-
thema. So the money which Australia pays
for iron will still go to support foreign
monopolies like the Carnegie concern.
And N.S. W. continues to lavishly subsidise
with unpayable public works and all manner
of costly concessions the cockie farmer who
pays his employee about 10s. a week for
almost the longest hours in creation, and
the local and foreign land monopolist. And
it still goes on, year in and year out, taxing
the community at large for the benefit of a
few unemployed—only it is careful to make
sure that their labor (useless scrub-cutting
and the like) isitft productive, isn’t perman-
ent, is a mere skin-and-bone job that doesn’t
lift them out of the mire of poverty, that it
has an element of poor-relief about it that
savors of charity and destroys self-respect,
and that it doesn’t save the country any-
thing in the way of paying for imports.
With these reservations, the policy of taxing
the country at large for the benefit of a few is
quite acceptable.
• * * *
The Foreign-trade party, to which the
Labor party too often plays the part of
jackal, has a peculiar arithmetical method of
its own. In considering any proposal to
foster a number of manufacturing industries
which employ 78,000 people—that is the
number dependent, in and out of factories,
on the semi-Protected manufacturing indus-
tries of N.S.W.—the items are taken
separately. There is an individual scoff at
the absurdity of trying to promote the miser-
able little job which employs 200 people, a,nd
an individual jeer at the obscure undertaking
which supplies occupation to 400, and so on.
When it is a question of a bonus of £3OOO a
year to support the railway that will serve
200 cockies, or £4OOO a year to the line which
will serve 10 squatters and 150 cockies, these
persons are not taken individually. And
when it is a question of bonusing agriculture
with land sold on long terms far below its
market price, with cheap loans, with freights
on which the country makes a huge loss, we
never hear separately of the decaying oat
industry, or the miserable chookey-hen
industry, or the absurdity of lending aid to
a business like peas and beans which only
supports about half-a-dozen people in all.
They are lumped in a huge, vague way as the
“great ” producing industries of the country.
In New South Wales manufactures, even with
the small amount of Protection they have
received, support 23,000 more employees
than agriculture does, and 63,000 more than
dairy farming does. Also manufactures pay
60 per cent, better wages, give better hours
and quite as good conditions of living, and cost
less in artificial support. There is hardly one
branch of agriculture which isn’t so small,
taken individually, that the idea of fostering
it with unpayable railways, cheap land, cheap
money, road grants, special freights and simi-
lar aids and bonuses couldn't be made to look
quite as absurd as the idea of similarly fos-
tering the hat or boot or iron or woollen busi-
ness. It is time there was some attempt at
dealing out the same measure all round. If
the Labor and Freetrade parties propose to
foster no industry for the benefit of a few—
not even the sand-shifting and scrub-cutting
industry—then their position is brutal but
intelligible. But the policy of lavishly fos-
tering, at enormous expense, the industries
that give the least return, and denouncing
every attempt to help along those which pay
reasonably well, shows a disordered state of
mind and an intelligence that has gone
askew.
The A.M.P. Society’s New Problem.
Concerning some more proposed extension of
Australia’s big life office :
The fact that the A.M.P. Society is applying to Parlia-
ment for power to invest its funds all over the British
Empire because of the jack of safe investments in
Australia, should make this land of 14 Houses of
Parliament, and seven Governors, and seven Agents-
General, consider seriously whether its 750 or 800
politicians haven’t somehow missed their opportunity.
The situation is not only curious—it is ridiculous. Aus-
tralia is always understood to be crying out Nr more
capital to develop it, and, at the same time, it is infovmed
that its own capital can’t find room in its own allegeoily-
undeveloped country. It is always floating loans in
England in order to bring money into Australia, and its
biggest corporation proposes sending its own money out
of Australia because there is not enough safe employ-
ment for it here. Apparently things are tending
to a position where nearly everything in Aus-
tralia will belong to English capitalists, while Australian
capital, such as it is, begins to be invested in England or
India or other remote regions. The See Government has
just borrowed £7,000,000 of British money in one year to
“develop’’one State, while the A.M.P. Society reports
that it is looking in vain among seven States for safe and
reasonably profitable outlets for less than one million
annually. %
The situation, as regards the A.M.P Society, is quite
understandable. It must find reasonably safe invest-
ments for a very large sum every year, and they must be
reasonably profitable investments if its bonuses are to be
kept up. It hasn’t got down to the level of that other
life office which lends through an agent on the bill with
two names on the back which is discounted at 25 per
cent. It can’t go in personally for agricultural or pastoral
industry ; it is only necessary to consider the spectacle of
a huge life assurance society planting potatoes, or picking
the wool off dead sheep in the backblocks, to recognise
the impossibility. It would find it exceedingly inadvis-
able to invest largely in mortgages on agricultural or
pastoral lands; these industries are too precarious. It
can’t lend all its money on city mortgages ; the values of
city property are also precarious, having been inflated by
many loan booms till its real worth is an unknown
quantity, and the competition of lenders has
brought rates down very low, and an office
which insists on an absolutely safe margin meets
with many difficulties. It can’t hold banking or insur-
ance shares with a call liability attached —the risk is far
too great. In America an institution of this kind might
invest enormously in the debentures of railway, manu-
facturing, and other safe concerns ; but here are no
large manufacturing concerns whose debentures are
worth mentioning, and the few private railways are
mostly things to be carefully avoided. As to State
securities, which take the place of railway capital in the
great majority of cases, the States offer 3 or 3j per cent,
to local investors, and when they give 4 per cent., at
which price an assurance office could afford to buy largely,
by some weird mental kink they now, as a rule, offer the
securities exclusively in London. Maoriland sells 3j per
cent, consols locally, but when the Seddon Government
raised £2,000,000 at 4 per cent, to keep the big
local bank from closing its doors, it sold the
stock in London so suddenly that no investor
at this end had any show worth mentioning. The pre-
sent N.S.W. Government offered 3j percent. Treasury
Bills locally, and almost at the same time sold 4 per cent.
Treasury Bills in England. Almost the only thing the
A.M.P. Society can do locally with its increasing funds,
if it wants to keep up anything like its present rate of
interest, is to become a large purchaser and holder of city
property. If it purchased judiciously, it might be able
to get 4A- per cent, on its money, and enough over to
steadily write down the book values of the properties till
they were beyond the reach of any possible loss —till the
values, in fact, were practically written off. But this is a
new departure that is apparently altogether too new to
strike the management favorably.
• * * *
While fully recognising the A.M.P. Society’s difficulty,
the situation is one which shows a diseased state of the
body politic. Australia is understood to be a country
where interest rates are higher than they are in England ;
that is the alleged reason why our Governments borrow so
heavily in England. If the A.M.P. Society is driven
abroad to look for investments, the inference is that this
alleged high interest goes with darned bad security—that
Australia, as a field for safe investment at reasonable
interest, is played out—and that though British people
may invest here thinking it a good field, yet the A.M.P.,
being closer at hand, sees the rottenness of things better
than they do. Along with this goes the possibility that
the A.M.P. Society may go abroad to invest its funds in
securities which look excellent at this distance, but of
which people closer at hand are more dubious—that it is
in search of the distant hill that looks green, and that
each hill looks green to the fellow who is standing on the
other hill, while each fellow’s own hill looks rather bare.
There is always this drawback about investments at a
distance —that they can’t be watched so closely as those
near at hand. There is also the drawback about all
investments, that if an investment turns out bad no
amount of close watching is likely to make it good again.
* • • a
However that may be, it is an open question if the
policy of floating loans in the cheapest market, even
when England is the cheapest market, is a good
one. There is room for a fixed conviction that it would
pay these States better to borrow locally, when the cir-
cumstances made it certain that the loans would remain
local property, at 4 or 4J or 4,| per cent., than to borrow in
England at 3j or 3§, which is about the figure at which
English loans work out nowadays; and thus provide a
good local investment. Borrowing money in England,
even at a slightly lower rate, while local funds are par-
tially idle, is only another version of the disastrous habit
of hiring a cheap nigger to do the work and being un-
employed yourself. A million pounds borrowed in Eng-
land at 3lf per cent, means that Australia pays to another
country £35,000 a year ; a million borrowed locally at 4J
per cent, means that Australia pays away nothing—
it pays itself £42,500 a year, which is only taking money
out of one pocket and putting it in another. The ques-
tion to be solved is this : Is it cheaper for a man (or a
country) to pay another man (or another country) £35,000
or to pay himself (or itself), say, £42,500? The common
theory is that the man (or the country) saves £7500 a
year by borrowing in the cheapest market, and after
much saving of money this way Australia is a very poor
and lamentable country. The much less common theory
is that it loses £35,000 a year. Of course, by borrowing
locally on these terms, the poor man pays his share of
£7500 a year more interest, and if the money didn’t come
back to him—if the securities were exclusively held by
the rich man—then though the country as a whole would
save money, yet one class of the community would profit
at the expense of another. But in such a case as that of
the A.M.P. Society the poor man would reap his full
share of the profit. That institution is one of the most
democratic concerns in all Australasia. It consists of
170,000 people, mostly small people, whose policies
average less than £3OO each. If the poor man paid a
fraction per annum extra in interest he would, in the
main, be paying it to himself, or saving it up for his
widow. Under these circumstances, the grievance isn’t
visible.
• * * *
The case must be looked at as it affects the country at
large before its exact nature is apparent. If a nation
owes £66,000,000 borrowed abroad at 3 per cent, it must
send abroad about £2,000,000 a year in some kind
of produce to pay the interest. It must send this
value in produce that its foreign creditors want,
and they generally want the cheapest kind of raw
material —the kind that their own people don’t supply
at the price because they are more lucratively employed.
That material must be sold at prices which will compete
with the cheapest nigger-slave competitor in the same
line of business. And to supply that produce the debtor
country has to keep a cheap labor or semi-servile class, like
the 67,000 agriculturists of N.S.W. whose output is worth
345. per worker weekly—out of which has to come rent,
taxes, railway freights on produce, tools, horses, fencing,
and many other charges, till the net reward is below 20s.
There is always some class like this in a country which
carries a huge burden of foreign debt —a class which can’t
be lifted out of its miserable condition, because the
necessity of supplying cheap goods in payment of the
foreign interest bill is always present. And if the same
country owes £66,000,000 borrowed locally at i\ percent.,
with due precaution that the securities will always be
held locally, it has to pay itself about £2,800,000 a year—
but that carries no obligation to supply cheap goods to any
outside creditor, to maintain any cheap labor class to
supply these goods, to compete with any low-wage and
long-hour white or black nigger in any foreign market.
It doesn’t matter much at what price a man borrows from
himself for a useful purpose ; he may be rained through
owing another man money at 3 per cent., but the man
who was ruined by being too deeply in debt to himself,
even at 5 per cent., is an unknown quantity. And no
country has ever gone broke through internal debt, when
the burden of the debt was carried by all classes, and the
debt was held by all classes.
• * » *
A country should be reasonably clear of foreign debt
before it begins to lend money abroad. Its business is to
give up being a slave before it begins to pose as a slave-
owner —and the debtor is a slave in a general way. The
Federal Parliament will, presumably, take over the State
debts some day, and pass much-needed insurance and
banking , legislation some day—even Pulsford and
Pumpkin Smith can’t talk about the tariff for ever. It
might do worse than create a Federal Government Life
Assurance Department and invest a portion of its funds
in il or 4J per cent. Federal securities—not new debt
created for the occasion, but old debts converted.
This might mean converting part of a low-priced
stock into a higher-priced one ; in other words Aus-
tralia might, in some cases, give up paying another
country £3 15s. or £4 and pay itself £4 ss. or
even £4 10s. instead. The same privilege might
be extended to all mutual life societies which
are content to confine their business to the Federal
territories, or to keep their business within these
territories separate from that outside. Then the people
of the Commonwealth would pay' the extra interest and
receive it back again, for mutual life assurance is the
purest form of democracy and the nearest approach to
communism extant. The bonds in question would have
to be non-transferable, except in the case of a winding-
up, and even then they must be offered to the Govern-
ment in the first place. Any large society could afford to
lock up a quarter, or perhaps half, of its funds in these
securities, and that would to a considerable extent relieve
the struggle to find investments. This arrangement
should hold good so long as Australia had any external
public debt. When that was all paid off or turned into a
local liability, then the process of repaying the locally-
owned debt might commence. Then, also, the problem
which is said to be now troubling the A. M.P. Society
might recur again. But that end of the problem is a
very long way off, and need not affect this generation.
A “Flash” Policy of Australian
Imperialism.
Mr. Deakin, Acting-Federal Premier, has an-
nounced, with every show of pride, that, certain
outrages having been committed by New Guinea
tribes, a joint punitive expedition will be
despatched against them by the Commonwealth
and the Netherlands Government; and this will
be the first occasion on which Australia has under-
taken a military expedition “ side by side with a
Continental Power.” The “military expedition”
will, as a matter of fact, mean the despatch of
less than a hundred native police to help murder
their countrymen for the sake of the white man’s
pay, and is not the sort of thing, either as regards
its extent or its object, which a reasonable man
would care to make matter for boasting. But the
fact that the expedition is to be undertaken in
conjunction with the Dutch authorities in New
Guinea, and ranges, for the first time in his-
tory, Australian-controlled fighters by the side
of the fighters of a foreign Power, appeals
to Mr. Deakin’s imagination, and makes him
a proud man, and should make, in the view of the
daily papers, all Australians proud men. For the
first time Australia shows herself as a practical
Imperialist, not fighting as a subject province by
the side of her mother-in-law country, but going
into battle as the ally and equal of a European
nation. That surely is greatness, thinks Mr.
Deakin. No matter that the object of the expe-
dition is one of murderous revenge on a tribe of
New Guineans, who, doubtless, believe in a Brown


New Guinea, as Mr. Deakin professes to believe
in a White Australia, and who strive to preserve
for themselves the lands which by every claim of
right are theirs. No matter that the continental
Power is a very small Power indeed. No
matter that the expedition itself is a pitifully
small and retail effort at slaughter, a punitive
effort smacking more of the sallying out
of a push than of the pomp and panoply of war.
The fact that the flags of Australia and of Holland
will wave together over the blood-seeking enter-
prise appeals to Mr. Deakin’s imagination,
• • * *
The sort of imagination which responds to such
an appeal could be more usefully employed in the
construction of cheap melodrama than m the
governing of a sober and rational people. But it
is unhappily the sort of imagination that has a
big say in Commonwealth politics. The simple,
savage joy in sending out a crowd of half-naked
men to kill some wholly naked men, under the
joint flags of Australia and Holland, is largely of
a piece with the eager exultation with which the
Federal Cabinet decided that it was part of its
province to Britannize the New Hebrides
and thus come into more or less direct
conflict with France. The Commonwealth policy
in the New Hebrides, which promises to cost us
dearly in men and money, has already caused un-
easiness in French colonial circles, and has aroused
a determination to oppose and counter-balance
our efforts to alienate those Islanders froin their
practically-French control and make them ‘ ‘ true
British.” What with creating hostility with France
and making a sort of an alliance with Holland,
the Australian Commonwealth is rapidly acquir-
ing a “ foreign policy ” ; and a “foreign policy
tickles the palate of Mr. Deakin and of the Aus-
tralian Jingoes. It would be a very foolish dog
indeed that put on airs because it was getting tin-
kettles tied on to its tail. But that’s the sort of
folly Australian public opinion is now guilty of.
We are deliberately going out of our way to incur
responsibilities and to undertake dangers and
difficulties which our position guarded us from,
and which we take upon our shoulders in sheer
exuberance of mischievous folly.
• • * *
In the case of the United States a recent out-
break of “ Imperialism ’’—which may be de-
fined as a searching abroad for trouble —can
be, in some measure, explained, though it
cannot be excused. The Government of the
United States is inordinately rich, and is placed
over a people audaciously prosperous, acutely
enterprising, finding one continent too narrow m
its confines for their superabundant energy. _ Im-
perialism under these circumstances is—it is true
—a folly, since no one is so strong as to be able to
afford to do wrong, no one so rich as to be able to
trample on justice with impunity; but it is,
withal, explainable. Overflowing energy, power,
wealth, seeking an outlet, break the bonds of
reason and cannot be restrained. But in the case
of Australia there can be no such explanation.
The Government of the Commonwealth is so poor
that it calls for borrowed money to put a new
chimney on one of its post-offices ; the people are
so little afflicted with superfluous energy that the
manufactures and agriculture of their country are
almost wholly undeveloped. There is, in short, so
much of importance to do at home as to give valid
excuse for refusing to enter into any necessary
outside enterprises, even of the most pressing
moment. Yet Australia, causelessly, needlessly,
wantonly rushes to meddle in New Guinea
affairs and New Hebrides affairs thereby
courting European entanglements!
* * * *
It shows with mournful clearness that “ flash ”
spirit which so strongly infects Australian public
life. There is a good deal of limelight in these
* 4 foreign politics. 55 They are apt to bring a man
prominently before the world, to advertise him,
and to get him a “ title.” A Premier could keep
office a dozen years, reforming the finances, carry-
ing useful domestic legislation in the interests of
public health and public well-being, without
getting one-tenth of the advertisement which a
month’s bold splashing in “foreign politics
secures. So —in the spirit of the man who is dog-
mean in his own home, and neglects his wife and
children, so that he may cut a dash at_ the
club and in the city—the average politician
hungrily grabs at every opportunity pf meddling
in outside affairs whilst neglecting vitally impor-
tant home matters.
* * * *
If this tendency of politicians continues it will
one day probably lead to serious trouble. A step
too far will be taken in twisting the tail feathers
of the French eagle, or in backing up the
expeditions of the Hollander . Government;
and an international difficulty will be created.
That difficulty, it will be found, Australia will
have to face alone. England is quite content
that Australia should act as the jackal-scout
of the Empire in the Pacific; for that
is good business. But if the foolish zeal of
Australia led to a difficulty, England would not
be so foolish as to plunge into war to “save our
face”; that wouldn’t be good business. Australia
would have to eat the leek, make her own
apologies, and pay her indemnity at the dictation
of the offended Power and of England. That will
infallibly happen one day if the “flash” tendency
in politics is encouraged to continue.
* * * *
There is much to do in Australia —a vast terri-
tory to populate and irrigate, manufactures to
encourage, national sentiment to educate -that
for perhaps generations to come there can be no
shadow of excuse for any ‘ ‘ Imperialistic ” policy,
any taking up of the White Man’s Burden with
the purpose of making the black man’s life a
burden to him. In keeping Australia for the
Australians, and developing it for the Australians,
there is work enough and to spare for statesmen.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Patty Degeneration of G-. H. Reid.
The Bulletin at times has had hopes of G. H.
Reid. That stout Scotch personage had always these
advantages —that he wasn t addicted to drink, and
jo was not get-at-able when mellow with whisky;
and that he had a coldly canny nature, and
wouldn’t “oblige a» friend at the country's
expense. "When, at the time of the Diamond
Jubilee celebrations in England, G. H. Reid set
his face resolutely against Imperial Federation,
there seemed to be a gleam of hope in Australian
politics. When the same man, as Premier of
N.S. Wales, pigeon-holed a request that Australian
help should be offered to the Jewhannesburgers, so
that they might wipe out the Boer Government
and get black labor in full supply for the
mines, with the remark “ this thing can
wait,” that gleam brightened to a glow. But
it is quite clear nowadays that G. 11. Reid has
abandoned all idea of being a popular leader, and
has drifted back to his old Union Club opinions,
and contemplates now a title and some soft billet
at a good salary. From the point of view of
G. H. Reid and family that is probably a wise
position, but to Australians it is dis-
appointing. How completely the once ardent
Radical has now bound himself to what he before
condemned is shown by Ins suggestion that Lord
Hopetoun— who leaves Australia ostensibly be-
cause he had neither the strength of chara ° ter
keep his expenditure within bounds nor the
dignity to pay the bill without a murmur-should
be appointed High Commissioner for Australia.
The G. H. Reid of three years ago would be
among the first to recognise that the chief duty
of the Australian High Commissioner is to act
as the representative and champion of Australian
interests in London when they conflict, or seem to
conflict, with English interests ; that the proper
person for the position is a man whose interests
are wholly Australian and whose character and
attainments fit him to meet on equal terms in
debate and negotiation the politicians of Britain.
Three years ago he would probably, indeed, have
endorsed The Bulletin’s selection for the posi-
tion (Mr. B. R. Wise), not from any love for that
gentleman, but because a calculating survey of the
circumstances shows that he is the man who pro-
mises to do the necessary work withmost dignity
and efficiency. But now Mr. G. H. Reid suggests
Lord Hopetoun as a fit and proper person to act
as Australia’s advocate before England s Cabinet.
Almost as well might the British Government have
appointed Dr. Leyds to represent its interests at
the recent conference with the Boers. There is no
blinking the fact that the duties of the High Com-
missioner will often involve, not actual hostility,
but direct antagonism to the English Cabinet.
Mr. Barton must recognise that, because he had
experience, during the negotiations on the Court
of Appeal question, of the stubborn fashion m
which English Imperialistic politicians endeavor
to thwart any markedly “ Australian ” sentiment,
and of the trickiness which they are prepared to
employ to gain their ends. In the future there
must arise many questions on which there will be
the same difference of opinion—questions in regard
to Immigration, in regard to the overlapping
powers of the Privy Council and of the Australian
Court of Appeal, in regard to Defence, in
regard to the Islands of the Pacific, in re-
gard to the system of colonial constitutionalism
(which has just been seriously threatened and, in
a degree no doubt, saved by a straight speech from
Mr Barton). On all such questions Lord Hope-
TOUN would look with an English eye. Australia
needs a Commissioner who will look at them with
two Australian eyes, and if she can get the right
man, at even a cost of £lO,OOO a year, it will be
one of the best fruits of Federation. Also if M*\
Reid can get what he is after quickly it would be
well. It is a pity to see even George Reid
descending to the level shown by the Hopetoun
suggestion.
On at the ’Alls.
A Brisbane (Q.) syndicate, it is announced, has
made an offer to Boer general De Wet of £250 a
week for a lecturing tour ; and the praise of antics
is divided between the magnanimity and the
business enterprise of the offer. It is cited as an
instance of Anglo-Saxon “generosity to a fallen
foe,” that the Queensland gentlemen are quite
willing to forget all bygones and allow De Wet
—who was at one time worth £5OOO to his cap-
tures dead or alive—to now earn money for them
at a personal profit to himself of £250 a week.
The Boer patriot speaks English with diffi-
culty and is a taciturn man a doer rather
than a talker so that his lectures would
probably not be very entertaining, but, he
would, notwithstanding, be a sure “draw as
an exhibit. If he refuses the offer and a refusal
is fairly certain —few will imagine that it is for
any other reason than that he hopes to get £350 or
.£5OO a week from someone else ; few will think
that the man who has fought a good fight for
the liberty of his country would be reluctant
now to bring his deeds down to the level
of the latest fat ballet - leg, or the newest
juggler with cards. For the spirit of the age
makes it natural for a hero to go on at the alls
and air his heroism to the gallery at £5O a
night. (The most successful hero on the
British side in the late war was Barnum
Powell, because his experience as an amateur
actor and his brassy self-confidence enabled
him to run the Mafeking siege as a “show.”)
That there should be any higher motive of action
than making money and participating m tawdry
theatricalism doesn’t even occur to the popular
imagination. Nowadays Cinoinnatus returns
to his plough—to bring it along as a stage property
for his “turn” ; Boadicea is only vexed by the
question as to whether she should wear tights or
classical draperies; and Hampden meets all his
law-expenses over ship-money by a lecturing tour.
The Boers, however, don’t seem to have reached
to the full height of 20th century civilisation. So
De Wet will probably refuse to lecture at £250 a
week, and be counted a greedy fellow, desirous of
preventing the poor manager from getting a decent
reward for his enterprise.
On Tramways.
“Galvo” to The Bulletin
So many conflicting statements have appeared lately as
to the intentions of Sydney tramway authorities about
altering their overhead system, that the following facts
may be interesting:— . , . „ , ~
As at present operated by the single-trolley system, the
“ juice ” from the big dynamos at Ultimo runs through
heavy underground copper-cables up to the overhead
trolley-wire, on to the little wheel of the trolley-pole,
down this pole to the “controller” (which the
driver works with his left hand, and which regulates the
amount of current consumed); thence to the motors
under the cars (which are geared to the axles); thence to
the wheels ; thence to the rails, and so back to the power-
house at Ultimo. (This explanation is not quite techni-
cally correct, but it is near enough).
Now, since it is necessary that the current shall have
an easy path back to the power-house, the rails need to
be efficiently connected at the joints, but none of the
numerous contrivances to this end have proved quite
satisfactory. Short, flexible copper cables; mercury-
alloys, to expand and contract with the rails ; copper and
steel rivets; even welding—all have been tried and
found wanting, sooner or later. The consequence
of failure electrically to connect the rails, is that the
current, instead of keeping to the track provided, takes
the broad and easy path which leads to destruction of
water and gas pipes, telephone and electric-light cables,
and in fact, all underground metallic substances. This
occurs especially at damp places, where. the moisture
carries the current to any pipes or cables in the vicinity
of the rails, which offer a more direct passage back to the
power-house. It follows such path as fai as this will
readily take it—then leaves it at some other moist spot,
as near to the power-house as possible, and starts out for
there, just as a man takes a ’bus to the end of the street
he lives in, and then gets out and walks. It is at the
point where the current leaves the rails that the damage
is done, by the generation of a peculiar electrical action
called electrolysis, which chews-up the metal. And,
since tramway authorities are everywhere held responsible
for any damage so caused, the importance of efficient
rail-connection is evident. .
Now, there are only two practical methods of confining
the return-current to the way it should go. One is to
adopt the double-trolley system, which involves the use
of two trolley poles on the oars, with a consequent doubl-
imr of the number of overhead wires—one wire conveying
current to the motors, and the other returning it to the
power-house. This method, however, is both cumbei'.-
some and expensive in maintenance, there being extreme
difficulty in keeping the two wires thoroughly insulated
and strictly apart, especially where numbers o{ wires are
juxtaposed—as at rail way-stations. . .
The other method to avoid current-diversion is to
adopt the best “ rail-bond ” known, and to have it con-
tinuously watched. Almost any “ bond ” acts well when
first put in, but the trouble comes when the constant
vibration of the cars causes it to become loose. With a
sufficient staff of testers and repairers, however, it is
possible instantly to detect a faulty bond, and as it is a
verv simple matter to replace it, this method is in tne
end the cheapest. The Yankees have had the most
experience with this diversion trouble ; and yet, out of
the many hundreds of their tramway systems, only two
have adopted the double-trolley. This fact it is, doubt-
less, which has caused the N.S.W. Commissioners to
abandon the double-trolley plan in favor of the existing
system. In looking after this, it is to be hoped they will
spend a little more money in future. The fact that they
ever contemplated using the double-trolley at all, strongly
suggests that they have been having trouble, and it
would be interesting to know what that trouble has cost
th 4 public. /
\ The Northern Territory. /
Ernest Eaveno writes: —
About the Northern Territory—the most mistaken idea
appears to be commonly entertained concerning the
capabilities of that ill-starred State. The popular notion
is that it is a land of moist heat and steamy vegetation
fitted for the growth of tropical products, providcd that
cheap colored labor is available— m fact, that the Terri-
tory is a slice of the Malay Archipelago wedged into
Australia by mistake. Never was there a greater error.
The N.T. is as much a cattle, sheep and horse bleeding
country as any other part of this continent; and the per-
centage of land on which it would pay to grow tropical
products with colored labor is about equal to Garden
Island. Of course, at the Government farm at Fanny
Bav every variety of tropical cultivation is successfully
attempted, but that farm Is on a small pateh of cleared
jungle land, exceptionally rich, and gratis colored prison
labor is available. When attempts have been made to do
the same on a large scale, for commercial purposes, they
have failed. No one ever entertained the idea of starting
plantations on the Queensland portion of the Carpentaria
Gulf littoral, and the Northern Territory part s o
exactly the same sort of country. Right round
the coast of Arnheim’s Land is what may be called
poor cattle land, with occasional areas, small
Fn extent, which appear promising enough for cultiva-
tion. If the aborigines could be taught to plant cocoa-
nuts something might be done in copra along the coast
line, but as for other things the outlook is very doubtful.
No the N.T. is a stock country and a white mans
country, provided sufficient judgment is exercised in the
selection of suitable grazing land. The I territory drained
bv the coastal rivers is as unfitted for sheep as the same
sort of country in Queensland. In the immediate
borhood of the sea it is poor cattle country and nothing
more. On the upper parts of the rivers it is sounder,
healthier, and, on some of the most favored nvers. wil
fatten fairly well. Across the range on the tableland
that stretches southward and inland there is sheep
country equal to the best of western Queensland and of
the same kind; and this, with the usual average
of unavailable areas, is what the N.T. mainly consists of.
It is meagrely watered, of course, but when the con-
tinent experiences a cycle of good years and regularmon-
soonal rains once more, it can hold its own in natura
waters. But let the country be ever so good, it cannot
progress unless means of communication are provided,
and sheep-stations cannot exist in these days wit
enormous distances of land-carriage to cover with teams.
The facilities for railway-making m the N.T. are very
great. The land is level, and the range that divides the
north and south waters is nothing-a mere ridge. A
deviation from Tennent’s Creek station (overland line) to
a port in the Gulf (either the mouth of the Roper or the
Maoarthur River) would render available some of the best
sheep-land in Australia. This railway formation should
be proceeded with immediately the country is taken over
by the Federal Govt., and the next thing to be done is the
strict enforcement of the stocking clause, so that syndi-
cates could no longer keep holding on to large areas and
paying sixpence a square mile for the privilege. li
it were insisted that they must stock up, they
would soon abandon their leases in favor ot
real settlers. That is the only thing to be guarded
against, the rush of paper speculation, when the federal
Govt, takes over the N.T. and starts to complete the over-
land railway. If it is not guarded against—and it can be—
the N.T. will get another blow below the belt and be
financially damned again for an indefinite period. The
Territory has been kept back by this landom leasing sys-
tem, and its capabilities misunderstood from the descrip-
tions given by travellers who know nothing of it but
Port Darwin and its immediate neighborhood. The people
should remember that all the towns of Queensland, from
Maryborough northward, are on the same parallels of
latitude as are comprised in the area within the N.T.
boundaries, and a more correct notion will be formed of
the value of the outcast State. The cry that the N.T. is
not a white man’s country is just as ridiculous as was the
same cry about Northern Queensland.
4
The Sectarian Snake.
The latest move of Yellow Pupism in Victoria is
an attempt to form a Protestant league, allegedly
of all things—“ to counteract R.C. influence on
legislation.” Considering the way the Protestant
Alliance and the L.O.L. at present pervade Vic-
toria, this would seem to be a choice instance of
doing unnecessary work twice over. That the
alleged manipulation of the R.C. vote m Victoria
is pure moonshine is evident from the results of a
score of elections, but more especially from the
late Senate poll. Then not a single R.C.
gained a seat, though had the vote been organised
by someone who knew his business, one
at least must have been in the first six ;
stolid Simon Fraser—useless, incompetent, and
almost unknown as a politician, but chief
Orange Joss—topped the Yic. Senate list.
Similarly, at last State elections the Scripture
Education League published its lists of selected
and of banned candidates. Had the Holy Roman
crowd made such a blunder the howl about priestly
interference in politics would have almost reached
Jupiter. Yet the biggest surprise of that election
—the easy defeat of democrat Styles, of Williams-
town, by the unknown Ramsay—a brewer’s
traveller, but an Orange tin god—was due solely
to the organised vote of Yellow Pupism. _ At the
initial meeting of the proposed league m Mel-
bourne, when cut-and-dried resolutions were
brought down, it was actually attempted to
exclude the press from an admittedly public
gathering. This Prof. Rentoul succeeded in-
blocking, but when he tried to move an
amendment, affirming the desirability of
first discussing the necessity for the pro-
posed league, he was greeted with raucous
yells of “Pro-Boer,” and hounded down,
by the monkey - shaved bigots. The first
resolution—moved by pro-Gore Fitchett—
stated the desirability of “ forming a League to
organise the Protestant vote and influence,” pre-
sumably for the purpose of keeping Simon Fraser
in Parliament. In the course of the proceedings
it was stated that ex-Premier Turner had, in
some way, betrayed the holy Pup cause, which
was flatly untrue. It was agreed long ago that a
Referendum should be taken as to the introduc-
tion of the Bible into State schools. The
Bill to that effect, drawn up by the
Orange party, was duly introduced and
passed through the Lower House by Turner,
and was thrown out by the 48 Rich Landlords,
who mostly belong to the virulent Presbyterian
push. Thereby these Landlords killed three birds
with one stone : They prevented the introduction
of the hated Referendum idea; they avoided
having it shown at the polls that the great
mass of the people didn’t care a straw for
their Bible-in-schools fad ; and they afterwards
put down the loss of their Referendum to
the machinations of the other party and gained a
valuable grievance thereby. If the Bible-in-
gchools people were offered their Referendum new
r—if the Bill were reintroduced and their own party
in the Council allowed it to go through—it would
probably be the biggest shock of the party 8 h f ?;
The same crowd got a Referendum m S.A., and it
hasn’t recovered from it yet.
The usual unclean-minded girl of 14, whose
frequency in Australia is one of the worst social
problems of the day, transpired, recently, under
the usual practically-impossible circumstances.
She alleged that, while in a train between Uran-
quinty and The Rock, N.S.W. (the fact that this
girl is beginning to happen pretty regularly in a
train is worth noting), a porter got out or the
brake-van, climbed along to her compartment,
entered it, turned out the lamp, committed the
usual assault after a struggle that lasted four or
five' minutes, left the carriage, came back as an
and re-lighted the lamp, and left
again—all this between two stations that were
only nine miles apart. On the other hand, the
accused and two other railway officials swore that
he had never left the brake-van between stations,
and it was alleged that, owing to the construction
of the vehicle, he could hardly do it without
breaking his neck. There were no signs in the
carriage of the alleged tremendous conflict,
and neither party showed any trace of
recent damage. The girl, who had just had
a struggle lasting four or five minutes,
stepped out of the carriage to tell her story looking
“quite calm.” Altogether the case broke up
badly, but as nothing has happened, or seems
likely to happen, to the girl of 14 (nothing like
two years for perjury, say), the manufacture, by
romantic infants of false accusations against
men remains the same old safe amusement as
before. That unwritten, but strictly observed,
Australian law that every female has a license to
commit this particular kind of perjury with im-
punity is probably the strangest thing m the
white man’s jurisprudence.
♦ ’
Victorian Premier Irvine lately informed a
deputation that he hoped to make great econo-
mies, and every £lOOO permanently saved m
the cost of Government would release £30,000
for the construction of reproductive works
—in other words, it would pay the in-
terest on £30,000 of new borrowings. To
the stereotyped, dull-headed, incompetent Aus-
tralian politician all roads lead up to a new
loan. What does Irvine mean by £lOOO or any
sum being “permanently saved?” If he saves
£lOOO this year it is available for public workB-
- he can’t possibly guarantee that £lOOO will be
saved in the same way every year. To the politi-
cian with the borrowing leprosy in his bones and
his alleged soul, £30,000 available is never
£30,000 to be spent straight out on necessary
works; it is always a year’s interest on a million
loan. And the result of it all is that Australia
hasn’t even got a civilisation of its own. It has
railways, telegraphs, roads, bridges, schools,
public buildings, otc., built with. loans, but,
apart from what it has borrowed, it is just about
on a par with a naked savage. When its troops
went to the Transvaal, they went burning and
destroying a country which was miles ahead of
Australia. What civilisation the Boers had was
mostly their own. Australia has only got the loan
of another country’s civilisation at 4 per cent.
Australia is an I O U 1971 miles broad and 2400
miles long —about the biggesb I O U that has ever
existed.
4
An outrageous attempt is being made in Victoria
to once again place the Railway Department under
political control. This attempt is aided by Bent,
the new Minister. When Bent was Minister for
Railways, in the long ago, the system was run by
the politicians, with the result that it became a
scandal, and even the apathetic public rose and
rushed the political crowd out of the Railway
offices. Bent wants to have more power in order
to do “little turns” for memberr/, and the mem-
bers want political control because they can then
squeeze Ministers. Wlien the Railways-manage-
ment was handed over to non-political commis-
sioners they found the system in a disgraceful
state. Intrigue and corruption leered at them
from every corner of the department. Almost
every man in the service owed his appointment to
some politician. Matheson, the late Commis-
sioner, was not, after all, a remarkably strong
man, but he was able to straighten things out con-
siderably. He increased the revenue of the de-
partment, and established thorough discipline.
The politicians did not like him because he used
point-blank to refuse to see them when they
wanted to work games. Bent is the bull-necked
member of the Irvine crowd, and he is sure to
have his own way. All bull-necked persons seem
to have their own way.
4
Sydney Daily Telegraph, in a leading article
(July 10) headed “Prosperous New Zealand,” com-
menting on the Maoriland surplus of £270,488,
remarked that the State continues to enjoy the
prosperity which set in about ten years ago, and
still gives signs of improvement. As reasons for
this enviable state of affairs, the Telegraph
noticed that Maoriland has no drought; that it pro-
fited by the increased demand for produce in Aus-
tralia, and also by the shrewdness of its commercial
representatives abroad. The compulsory resump-
tion of 418,720 acres of privately-owned land for
closer settlement was patted on the back, but the
D.T. maintained a tremendous silence about the
fact that Maoriland has a protective tariff which
averages £2O Bs. per cent, on all imports; and that
its manufactures are consequently increasing at a
greater ratio than those of any other State here-
abouts. And it was as silent as the dead about
the fact that Maoriland has almost the smallest
trade per head in Australasia —that it keeps down
exports by using much of its raw material in its
own factories, and keeps down imports by produc-
ing, as far as possible, its own manufactured
goods; that it kicks the “Trade” fetish, that
Reid and M'Million and the Telegraph worship,
into the middle of next seon; and that it doesn’t
believe the beginning and end _of civilisation
consist of humping wool on to a ship and humping
manufactured goods off a ship. About all these
the Telegraph was as speechless as Cain’s bones,
and it goes on backing up the Dry Dog person,
the dreary Pulsford and false prophet M'Million
in their attempts to make Australia as unlike
Maoriland as possible.
♦
The South Australian Labor party in the As-
sembly has had a sharp reminder of the fact, often
set out herein, that the Laborites must broaden
their platform if they want to still be a power in
the State Parliaments. So long as there were two
solid main parties which they could play off
against one another—so long, in a word or two, as
they had the balance of power —they were able to
do great things. But now that the old party
lines have been wiped out more or less, so far as
the State Parliaments are. concerned (more in
South Australia and less in N.S.W,), the bulk of
what is left of the two old parties is ready
at critical times to coalesce against the Labor-
ites. This was done at the opening; of
S.A, 'Parliament, when »FbN£lNs and PARLMWt
combined to keep the Laborites off every com-.


QAWMILL machinery.
BAND or CIRCULAR MILLS, very heavy for
hardwood timber. Complete Outfits of any capa-
city. BAND RESAWS. ENGINES. BOILERS
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.’
PULP MACHINERY. GRIP PULLEYS.
FLOUR MILLING MACHINERY.
"ALMS" ROLLER FLOUR MILLS on
UNIVERSAL BOLTER SYSTEM.
the
WILLIAM FLEMING, 24 Clarence-street, SYDNEY
rnittee but one. In irony, possibly, they put the
least lettered of their mutual enemies on the
.Library Committee ; that was the one exception.
Ihe same combination, with the same result, pro-
toises to be on hand all through the session—and
the -transcontinental Land Grab is coming on.
In State politics, Liberalism, unless it looks out,
will be badly beaten, as it has so often been
before, by wasting itself in factions. There is no
room now, in the State Parliaments anyway, for
a Labor party and a Liberal party; they must
come together and join hands. Nothing short of
that will save two, at least, of the Southern
States from falling into much the same sort of
political nightmare as for years past has been tor-
turing Queensland.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “ When we were Twenty-one.”
Lyceum “ The Great Ruby.”
J ,VOLI Rickards’ Co.
Palace “A Little Ray of Sunshine.”
Criterion “ Hands Across the Sea."
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “A Chinese Honeymoon.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Circus Girl.”
Theatre Royal “ The 10.30 Down Express.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Town Hall Jean Gerardy.
»
The first of the Dani Farewell Concerts at
Sydney Town Hall Was, in point of attendance,
disastrous, but at the second recital the tide
turned, although it was a dreary night of drench-
ing showers and gusty blizzards that blew rocks
and water through the cavernous streets. Truth
to tell, Dani is a waning star. In the Grand
Opera he travelled extensively on his beautiful
legs, and soared along on his high C, and both
legs and high C’s became a little monoton-
OU j _He ends everything with a high C,
and the consequence is that the last that is
seen of Dani is always a stout young man with
a swelling neck, bursting veins, and purple face
heaving up the ponderous weight of that elevated
Oto the ceiling. The audience was most incon-
siderate, and encored him again and again, careless
if his larynx was cracked next day and Dani
ruined for ever. It went on brutally demanding
about 10 times more than it paid for. The
support was a first-class concert in itself, with a
programme of gems, and every artist, except Mr.
-Roche, who suffered from cold, in excellent form
and vome. Rivers Allpress was there with his
violin, which he never played better. Ernest
lruman was at the grand organ making the cap-
funder boom Wagner’s Paraphrase on
, marching pilgrim armies by to
the blare of trumpets, and finally sending a great
wind whistling away into silence along the reeds of
some creek in paradise. Writer would sooner hear
grand opera played on that organ than sung by all
the companies in the world. Miss Hilde Mulligan
a young Manly soprano, was twice encored. She
has a beautiful, fresh, sparkling voice, but she was
not accustomed to the Town Hall, and didn’t
understand the working of the pianissimo to suit
its peculiarities. Some day, when she has learned
to narrow down her volume of sound, Miss Mulli-
gan (who, by the way, is a grand-niece of Vincent
Wallace, of “Maritana”) will, in this writer’s
opinion, be a famous singer. In the meantime,
she wants careful tuition and a course of fencing
exercise to lend grace to her deportment. Miss
Bertha Faning sang the duet with Dani, which
was an exquisite number.
** * *
The Broughs, in continuation of their
process of retirement, commence a six weeks’
season at Sydney Royal on Saturday. The advt.
says that they are leaving the Australian stage,
but as to whether they are also leaving every other
stage it is silent. Apparently, however, so far as
Australia is concerned, the decision is final.
Whether a subsidy from the Federal Government
would make any difference in the position is
mere guesswork. The policy of encouraging
local industries with a bonus has done good
service in many parts of the world,
and if anything would induce Brough to settle
down here and become a local industry Acting-
Premier Deakin might do worse than ask him to
name his subsidy, and see if terms could be
arrived at. If the subsidy were large enough,
Brough might agree to make occasional visits to
some desolate parts of the land where he would be
a blessing, and a liberal education, and would
lead to the diminution of crime. The interior
wants something to save it from going
mad and obliterating the family with an
axe—some recreation that isn’t rum, or horse,
or dry bones, or dust-storm, or itinerant sky-pilot!
Just m the saddest, or almost the saddest, time in
Australia’s history the showman who has made
the country laugh more regularly and more
heartily than any other proposes to leave it.
Possibly, as the drought years go on, he finds it
more and more of a dead lift to make the popula-
tion smile, and decides to leave off before the lift
becomes any deader. Apart from Brough there
isn t very much in Australia to smile at just now.
» * • •
The brief season of Australia’s departing
friend opens with “When we were Twenty-one”
—its first appearance in Sydney. A good many
other productions are expected to follow—at least
there are hopes in that direction. Meanwhile,
Charles 11. still waves the British sceptre on the
Royal premises, and asks his dog for advice as to
the ruling of England. And the dog’s advice, so
far as it is intelligible, is to lie low and sav
nothing. J
** * *
‘ Hands Across the Sea, ” a popular drama
of the good old imbecile sort, was staged as the
final effort of the Woods-Williamson Company at
Sydney Criterion, last Saturday. Dick Melford
who comes from Australia, has disguised him-
self as nobody in particular, in order to see
his English daughter without her being aware that
she is being seen, but there appears to be
not the slightest reason for this erratic con-
duct. . Coming from Australia (where he
is said to be nick - named the King), he
of course, possessed of immense wealth.
Mr. Melford publicly rebukes the villain for
wearing gloves and a high hat in proper
repair, and when Alf. Woods comes in look-
ing untidy, he states that Alf is a man, and
gives him his daughter right away. When Alf. is
found to be a person of no business sense, who
leaves valuable scrip in the bootbox, or the hat-
stand, the Monarch’s enthusiam for Alf. becomes
unbounded.. Later on, Alf. escapes from a French
prison, which revolves round, showing that
gentleman demanding to be shot like a man, not
like a dog. The blue and red French policemen
are about to oblige when Miss Williamson rushes
on m the middle of the night with the reprieve.
About this time all the characters go to Australia
to make their fortunes. They are seen con-
gregated together in the s.s. Australasia,
which is so constructed that whenever the charac-
ters go to the wings they look as if they were
walking into the sea. This vessel picks up Alf.
Woods, who has been wrecked while on his way
to penal servitude. A French officer or two come
from the sea, demanding Alf. as their prisoner,
but the captain hauls up the British flag, and the
American ditto appears from somewhere else, and
it is decided, among other things, that Britannia
rules the waves, which, considering the extraordi-
nary structure of the s.s. Australasia, looks pro-
bable. A nation that can go to sea in a vessel of
that shape can rule anything. Woods’ character is
cleared later on beside Neutral Bay wharf, Cir-
cular Quay, in view of somebody’s produce store,
and with a distant sight of the hoardings advising
people to take Pale Beans that won’t wash clothes.
Circular Quay was greeted with immense enthusi-
asm on Saturday, and the scene-painter was
obliged to come twice on the stage in consequence,
before Alf. Woods’ character could be taken into
consideration at all.
* * * »
. The Bulletin’s final criticism on Alf. Woods
is that if he would act less he would act better.
When he greets an old friend by slapping him on
the shoulder, he slaps him too much and knocks
the dust out of him. Otherwise Alf, Woods is an
actor of individuality and some ability. Miss
Williamson has a good part in Lilian Melford,
and does the lighter touches with grace. Why
she wears an Empire costume to a Harvest Home
is not explained, but she looks well in it. Miss
May Hesford, as a Frenchwoman excited about
her reputation, has a good French accent as
French accents go on the stage ; and the rest of
the company are as usual, except when worse.
** * *
“ The Great Ruby ” pursues its career of
success at Sydney Lyceum under Blandoltian
management, the balloon ascent and the
jeweller’s shop being the principal attractions.
Pictorial libels on the jewel in question glare at the
Sydney passer-by from various hoardings. Thus
represented it is a blob of horror such as
one would expect to be pursued by in a night-
mare, and which no intelligent man would care to
be alone with in a balloon at midnight. The few
persons that have not gone to the Lyceum as yet
have a consequent impression that the ruby is
something between an octopus and the drunkard’s
nose as it is imagined by the teetotal lecturer, or
the drunkard’s interior as pictured by the same
authority in his magic-lantern show.
** * *
“Facing the Music” will be withdrawn
from Sydney Palace this Saturday (July 19), and
the troubles of the various Smiths vanish. “A
Little Ray of Sunshine ” follows.
** * *
At the Sydney Tivoli some minor changes
have not been of much importance. Mr. Tom
Wootwell has some new songs which are genuinely
comic. It is a pity that this comedian does not
drop “broad” effects altogether; he is clever
enough to be amusing—and wholesome. The
I lorenz co. leaves this week, and extensive alter-
ations of the programme are announced for
Saturday.
** * *
Miss Violet Mount, now appearing at the
Dani concerts, is a soprano singer new to Sydney.
She is a Victorian, a daughter of Mr. Lambton
Mount, and a granddaughter of Mr. llenry
Mount, .an old identity. Her studies were con-
tinued in Germany, and her voice—a highly-culti-
vated one—sbowed capitally in the great “Eliza-
beth ” air in “ Tannhauser,” which she sang at
her invitation recital, Monday last. Miss Mount
is not long out of her teens, but has had much
musical experience in M.L., where she appeared
with the leading musical societies and visiting
artists.
*# * #
The one never-to-be-forgotten item in
Gerardy’s concert at Melb. Town Hall, last
Thursday night, was Miss Electa Gifford, drama-
tic soprano. Her costume, stylishly bizarre, was
not nearly so surprising as her curtsey to the
audience, and other platform peculiarities. No-
body quite knew what to make of Miss Electa, as
a personage or a warbler. She sang, with much
vocal skill and tossing of the head, an Indian Bell
song from “Lakine,” and, having fired off her
indescribable curtsey once again, the jaunty lady
retire.!. Then the audience at the back of the
hall applauded vociferously, and each time she
bowed her wondrous bow they clapped the more.
When she brought the pianist along for an encore
number, they made her bow three or four times
ere she could tune her lay. The encore song was
a veritable feast for the enraptured audience.
They had never dreamed of having such a lively
time at a “classical” concert. Miss Electa was
an irresistible novelty. They recalled her for
another series of bows and tried hard to make her
sing again.
** * *
Anderson’s latest production at Melb.
Royal is “ The 10.30 Down Express,’’ a drama of
several unconvincing sensations and much comic
relief. The comic relief includes a wash-tub and
a mangle, likewise a frugal supper purchased with
the proceeds of an awfully dishonest transaction
at the pawnshop round the corner. It seems that
the comic relievers who run the mangle are in the
habit of pawning their customers’ linen to buy
meals for their lady lodger. Just after they have
hypothecated a bundle of other people’s under-
garments, a broker’s man takes possession of their
happy home, whereupon they pelt that compara-
tively respectable citizen with fried fish and loaves
of bread, just as though vittles were a drug on the
market. In its moral-lesson aspects, Anderson’s
variegated drama is a bit rocky. It strikes at
the very root of public confidence in the Peggies
who boil our linen, and represents Robert Inman
as a thriftless disburser of beer-money, owing to
which the Lost Woman of the piece gets so
abusively “tight” that Willard shoots her, and
nobody is hanged for the crime. But although
everybody’s troubles are indirectly due to the
prevalence of beer in the first act, the drama lays
no stress on this melancholy fact. It might have
been a great temperance sermon, but the oppor-
tunity is wasted. The plot turns wearily upon
the wickedness of Willard, and when that
hardened malefactor has committed his due
allowance of murder, burglary, and general un-
righteousness, lie pays the penalty of his failure
to wreck the train which had the detective aboard.
Then Inman recovers his lost innocence, and gets
restored to the arms of his doleful girl, whose
father and maiden aunt have previously
removed her from the garret where the broker’s
man was pelted with loaves and fishes. “The
10.30 Down Express” deserves no more or less
success than it is likely to get. Theatrical
managers owe a duty to their exchequer, and, if
Melbourne wants a peculiarly unreasonable narra-
tive, supported by festive scenery and an inci-
dental gambol of village maidens, this narrative
will supply the want.
* * * *
Miss Eugenie Duggan, who usually shares
Inman’s woe, is absent from the present bill, and
Miss Ada Guildford suffers in her stead. Other-
wise, the principal members of the co. happen in
the places where they are expected to occur. Per-
haps Geo. Carey, as the superfluous man in pos-
session, and Miss Ethel Buckley as Peggy, are the
brightest individual items in the show.
&m * *
Touching “A Chinese Honeymoon” at
the Princess’s there is nothing new to remark.
The splendour remains as before, and the satis-
faction of the audience when May Beatty says
“ What are yer guvin’ us?” is only exceeded by
its joy when that genial young comedianna cries
“Garn! yer coddin’.” Melbourne is growing
very fond of Miss M.B. since she smudged her
nose and started to lean up against the Emperor
of China. Her frank and unsophisticated rorti-
ness has something of the sauce of Alice
Ta-ra-ra Leamar and the pickles of Peggy Pryde.
Her humor will acquire more art if she looks for it,
and, meanwhile, Miss Beatty is young and
happy and “orlright” in a partly new manner.
She could be guaranteed to earn a double encore
by simply banging a saucepan-lid with a broom-
handle. A ballet would not seem out of place in
“A Chinese Honeymoon,” but up to now the
ballet has been conspicuous by its absence, and
that influential section of the community which
has no further use for a comb is feeling somewhat
aggrieved.
** * #
The charming grass-widow who lived in a
pond and taught Jennie Opie to swing upon a
cobweb, will make her last appeal to the Lord
Chancellor on Friday evening. “lolanthe” has
not been an enormous attraction at Her Majesty’s
—nothing is enormously attractive anywhere this
weather—but its character as a comic opera shines
none the less brightly on that account. The first
10 minutes of “lolanthe” are about the sweetest
theatrical experience one can get; nevertheless Mel-
bourne in general is waiting for its J. C. William-
son’s change of bill. On Saturday (19th) the first
Australian appearance of “ The Circus Girl ” will
achieve a crowded house and a fashionable wel-
come, also a large measure of subsequent success
is practically assured. The cast for “The Circus
Girl ” is a long, imposing array of popular names.
Miss Florence Young plays the title part, and
many people are taking a lively interest in the
forthcoming reappearance of that rested song-
stress. They are confusing the Circus Girl with a
certain Millie, whom Tom Costelloe, of yore, used
to meet in Piccadilly.
** * *
Gerardy, the interesting young artist with
a genius for the ’cello, is giving a series of six
concerts at the Town Hall, where the wind blows
cold through the main entrance doors, and musical
enthusiasm sits in danger of a chill upon the liver
and elsewhere. To say that Jean Gerardy is a
great player would be comparatively unjust. He
is Immense, At his first concert last year he
particularly charmed his audience with some
variations, by Servais, on a Schubert theme, and
when he came to play this same number again last
Thursday the performance seemed even a little
more masterly than before. Probably Gerardy
would be happier if he were to get his hair cut.
Every now and then, just as his soul is merging
into a scherzo, or beginning to be overcome by a
thought amoureuse, his forelock tickles his nose,
or falls into his eye, whereupon he jerks his head
back and awakens from his dream. This is
regrettable. Gottfried Galston, at the piano, is
the most sympathetic of accompanists, and one of
the most likeable solo performers we have had.
Miss Electa Gifford, the vocalist and fine girl of the
party, proved to be quite a brilliant artist
at her second appearance. She warbled the
Mad Scene from Thomas’s “ Hamlet ” with
force, feeling and ease. Having said all these
nice things about Gerardy’s Concert Co. present
scribe may remark that no musical entertainment
in Melb. Town Hall during July can expect to
draw the public by the mere strength of its merits.
Besides, the Gerardy programme is dragged out
without the least consideration for the audience’s
incipient pneumonia.
** * *
This is seemingly the last week of the
Drews at the Opera House, unless it is the last
week of the Nawns. Anyway, the Florenz co. is
announced to appear at next Saturday’s matinee,
and meanwhile the Harvey Boys have chipped
into the Rickards programme with encouraging
results. The Harvey Boys are bona-fide juveniles,
whose “turn” is humorous as well as fistically
clever. A new biograph has no flickers on it to
speak of, and the Concertina King and other
items are doing well. The C.K. is just now ap-
pearing in kharki, with limelight effects stream-
ing upon his warlike melodies.
* * * *•
At Saint Kilda Town Hall an amateur
company is to perpetrate “The Runaway Girl ”
on three nights of this week, and the advt. dwells
feelingly on the fact that refreshments will be sold
during the interval at ordinary rates for the benefit
of the Cause —which is hospitals. Another advt.
notifies the public of Melbourne that Dan Barry
will start a dramatic season at the Gaiety Theatre,
next Saturday, in his own cause. Dan’s prices
will be strictly moderate, ranging from fid. to one
shilling, and the name of liis opening drama
is “A Gilded Sin.” Sixpence for “A Gilded
Sin ” sounds cheap.
** * *
At Adelaide Royal, comic opera has ended
with revivals of “San Toy” and the “French
Maid ” and other things. And if Fred. Graham
does not quite wipe out remembrance of Albert
Whelan, as lehabod Bronson, or Rose Musgrove
obliterate the tracks of Ada Reeve, they still put
up a good show. Crane (substitute for Brownlow
now) sings finely, but does not seem to take kindly
to the love-making, which, in the other man’s
hands, was so realistic. In comedy of all kinds
the co. is very strong. Hawtrey, back with a
much-altered crowd, is now playing “ The Lady
from Ostend.” At the Tivoli, D’arc’s marionettes
are very elaborately worked. They represent
everything, from panto, to Christy Minstrels, and
are “mounted ” as carefully as if they were alive.
** * *
For masterful'deadheadism a small Scotch
Mayor, with a temperance and releegious cohen-
science, takes the cake. Hobart, headed by such
a potentate, publicly welcomed Amy Castles on
her arrival by a late train the evening before her
one-night season at the local theatre. The singer
was driven in solemn state to the Town Hall, and
introduced to the massed cits, by aforesaid Mayor.
Though the girl was obviously tired and ill, the
chief magistrate delivered a long and dreary
oration, in the course of which he persisted in
trusting “ that Miss Castles would gi’ us a sample
o’ her magneeficent powers.” The Bendigo
girl was, so to speak, surprised into compliance
(she sang a couple of verses of “Home, Sweet
Home”), though Manager Ashton and Accom-
panist Scherek looked anything but pleased with
the programme. As the small Scotch Mayor and
his friends never patronise the local theatre, con-
sidering it a Place of Sin, and as hundreds whc
would have paid merely to have been able to say
they had heard the Castles’ voice, had already
been gratified “ on the nod,” the legitimate season
was not a big financial success. Miss Castles'
manager will, no doubt, see that she avoids public
receptions in future, especially in towns presided
over by godly Mayors.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Dear Bulletin.— Re City Mutual bonuses
(Bulletin 6/7/’O2). The comparison is possibly an unfair
one, but aren’t most comparisons unfair? The A.M.P.
Society in its last prospectus compares its bonuses with
those of the City Mutual —it had up till then left us alone
—but it omits to state that the difference in the then
premium rates meant an immediate bonus of no less than
£lO to the policyholder in this Society. No one detests
this “ comparison ” practice more than I do, but you can-
not handle it with a kid glove, the only way to stop it is
to fight the other fellow with his own weapons—mostly
mud. For the life of me I cannot understand why the
directorate of the oldest and wealthiest insurance insti-
tution in Australia has allowed this abominable practice
to go on unchecked all these years. It reminds me of a
tenth-rate grocer in a third-rate street hanging out a
notice-board that he puts less sand in his sugar than his
rival across the street. Imagine, if you can, one of our
great banking institutions advertising that it holds larger
reserves than another bank, whom it specially refers to
byname, or an eminent doctor setting out in cold type
that he killed less people last year than his rival saw-
bones !—Geo. Crowley.
• * • *
New South Wales, at all events, has good reason
to think hard before it approves of any league or zoll-
verein for the encouragement of British at the expense of
non-British trade. N.S.W., like its neighbours, needs to
sell more produce than it buys, so that the surplus may
help to pay the annual liability on its foreign debts. Its
interest lies very largely with the countries which buy
from N.S.W. more than they sell to N.S.W.—it is these
surplus sales that go to coyer its debt liabilities and keep
it out of the Bankruptcy Court. On this subject the
records for 1901, just published, stand as follows
N.S.W. Imports from and Exports to the Principal
Trading Countries.
Balance Balance in
Imports. Exports, against favor of
N.S.W. N.S.W.
£ £ £ £
Britain .. ..10,102,941 7,647,963 2,454,978
United States .. 2,803,641 2,539,116 264,525
France .. .. 251,600 1,502,339 - 1,250,739
Belgium .. .. 152,965 1,093,944 940,979
Chili .. .. 5,109 254,229 249,120
Germany .. 1,206,643 1,363,456 156,813
British Empire.. 1,863,807
All non-British
Countries .. 2,286,713
This includes everything except coin and bullion—they
are exports that any country will take in any quantity,
asking no questions. The result is that N.S'.W. bought
very much more from Britain and from the empire gener-
ally than they bought from N.S.W. ; while foreign coun-
tries, in the aggregate, bought from N.S.W. much more
than N.S.W. purchased from them. It was the cash
balance in N.S.W.’s favorin its transactions with countries
outside the empire that enabled it to pay for its British
purchases. The trade balance in its favor, which helped to
pay interest on its extraneous debt, was gained on
its trade with non-British countries. Britain and
U.S. owed N.S.W. a large debt of gratitude on the
final results of the year’s trade, and N.S.W., in
turn, owed a large debt of gratitude to certain non-
English-speaking countries—principally France, Belgium,
Chili and Germany. Great Britain bought £1,080,000
worth less from N.S.W. in 1901 than in 1897—it is a
decreasing trade and a failing market. Foreign countries
in general bought £1,500,000 worth more from N.S.W.
in 1901 than in 1897 they are, in the aggregate]
an improving market. Taken separately, China, Japan]
India and the U.S.—all Britain’s special friends—sell
largely to N.S.W. and buy little in return. On the other
hand Britain’s continental enemies are among the chief
supporters and most profitable customers of N.S.W.
* * * *
The new Westralian Treasurer states regretfully
that the great Groper surplus of £174,054 isn’t represented
by cash, but only by useless or condemned stores, worn-
out machinery and other trash. Ever since the beginning
of the Forrest Government 12 years ago, decayed stores
and worn-out plant have been accumulating, nothing
being written off, so now Westralia has on paper the on 13-
State surplus in the Commonwealth—a surplus of
broken pick-handles and ink bottles, worn-out dredges
and such like discouraging marine stores.
* * * •
Comparing present and past seasons in N.S.W.,
this is the sheep mortality from drought alone in the
principal dry years up to 1900 :
1876 .. .. 1,999,000 1892 .. .. 4,190 120
1877 .. .. 5,550,000 1893 .. .. 610’500
1881 .. .. 1,753,000 1894 .. .. 675’700
1882 .. .. 2,274,000 1895 .. .. 4 913’300
1883 .. .. 1,392,000 1896 .. .. 1 457’500
1884 .. .. 8,138,000 1897 .. .. 2,985’100
1886 .. .. 2,061,000 1898 .. .. 2 460 700
1888 .. .. 2,897,000 1899 .. .. 3,476’000
1889 .. .. 1,736,000 1900 .. .. 1,077^000
They died just the same when there were no fodder-
duties and when there were. It is part of the Reid
party’s unpatriotic conspiracy against everything
Australian to represent that sheep are dying now
solely by reason of the fodder duties, which prevent
the enormously rich western squatter (who is also dead
broke) paying £lOOO to £5OOO a week for imported hay so
as to keep alive, at a cost of about £1 or 30s. a year a
sheep which might be worth Is. 9d. at the end of that
period. But under Reid’s own regime in 1899, when the
sheep mortality was between three and four millions and
when there were no duties on produce, the N.S w’pas-
toralist imported no hay or chaff from either U S or
Argentina, and only £694 worth from Maoriland : he just
let his sheep die. As regards Queensland, which is also
represented by interested liars as perishing because the
Federal Government won’t take off the fodder duties
the best answer is that, through years of fearful drought’
that State kept its own fodder duties on, and nobody
even suggested their removal. If it had desired their
removal it would probably have attended to the matter
when the duties were under its own control.
Furthermore, George Keid became NSW
Premier in August, 1894. He found fodder duties exist-
ing in N.S.W., and that inhuman wretch (he is such by
his own showing) kept these fodder duties on, contrary
to his alleged fiscal principles, till the beginning of 1896
Close on 5,000,000 sheep died in 1895, and not a fodder
duty did he remove all that year. And Reid is the sort
of trash who is shocked because the Federal Government
keeps the fodder duties on, though in doing so it doesn’t
turn Iscariot upon its fiscal principles as he did
• * * *
Life assurance offices are exempt from the
Victorian income-tax, and the land-tax doesn’t touch


'X’3FCA_IVr- I W‘A. YS. TR.A.IWCWA.YS.
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Prop. Ltd.
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
Representing ORENSTEIN & KOPPEL LTD., of LONDON and BERLIN,
Equip Complete TRAMWAYS and supply Every Description of Tramway Material.
|PP“ Locomotives from 10 to 250 h.p.
STOCKS IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE include Rails and Accessories, Steel Sleepers,
Turntables, Switches, Side Tipping Trucks, Steel Wheels, &c. Technical advice gratuitously
rendered. Flying and Permanent Surveys arranged. Illustrated Catalogues and Photo-
graphic Albums showing Tramways constructed in different parts of the World, upon
application. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager.
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties ottered
must be subject to inspection. Gable address : “ Option,”
Melbourne.*
* * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footsoray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, and all sorts of iron-work. *
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-streefc, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * m
Although the severe drought has detrimentally
affected mining, there are still many mines requiring
pumps of all descriptions, and to those we would recom-
mend the A.S. Cameron Steam Pumps. Besides these, a
much-improved Gyratory Crusher is now on the market —
viz., the “Austin”-in style on the Gates’ system, but
greatly improved throughout, and having special features
which make them superior to all others. The agents for
the above are Messrs. W. and J. Lempriere, 506 Little
Collins St., Melbourne. This enterprising firm is always
to the front with the best of every mining appliance,
which includes the unparalleled Luhrig Concentrating
Vanner.*
• * • •
The Austral Otis Engineering Co.’s tender for
the supply of nearly a million are lamps of Conradty’s
manufacture has been accepted by the City Council of
Melbourne. The same co. has also been entrusted with
the supply of the Launceston City Council’s requirements
of arc lamp carbons.*
* * * *
About the best Brand for Sheep now in the
market is Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and
is considerably cheaper than any other. It will dissolve
in the scour, and should certainly be used by those who
hope to get a good price for their wool. E. Rich and Co.,
Sydney and Brisbane, hold stocks. *
* * * *
Do not hesitate. Write first post for description
of new Gasoline furnaces—will melt anything, and so must
be invaluable to all assayers. Mr. de Beer, Bourke-street,
Melbourne, will afford particulars.*
* * * *
Local Government Journal, July, 1901 ;
“ The Colonial Mutual in 1900 : Funds, 31st March, 1875,
£2864; Funds, 31st. December, 1900, £2,491,989. We
believe that we are correct in stating that no life assur-
ance office in the world can show such a record as that
given above.”*
* « * *
Mine Managers, Engineers, &c. will learn with
interest that the Dunlop Rubber Mills, Melbourne, are
prepared to quote prices and submit samples of
Suction, Drill or Air Hose, Packing, Valves, etc. of the
highest quality at prices previously unobtainable in
Australasia. Depots in all States. Correspondence
invited.*
* * * •
Melbourne and Adelaide have formed the
inevitable syndicates to exploit S’African fields. If there
be anything to exploit there, the emissaries of the
paltry Australian syndicates will be only amazed
lookers-on. The combined capital of the syndicates
would not pay a swagger option-hunter’s travelling and
hotel bills for a month. Adelaide men are hopeful that
they may have a repetition of the Brookman syndicate’s
luck in dumping its weariness and hard-upness fair and
square on to the marvellous Golden Mile of Kalgoorlie.
But writer is prepared to wager long odds that
neither of the Brookmans nor any one of their ex-partners
is in the S’African syndicate. Strange, is it not, that
concurrently with the departure of Australians in quest
of “desirable properties” in S’Africa, a party of well-
accredited mining men from there should arrive in Aus-
tralia on a similar mission. Stranger still, it may seem
to some, that this party should select N.S.W. for its
investigation. There may be much sanity in its action,
as, if there be anything in the State worth looking at,
now is the most favorable time to look. As the result of
rascalities, which, practised in any other business, would
necessitate an extension of the gaols, directorial incapa-
city, managerial ignorance, and half-hearted speculation,
mining is almost a dead letter in N.S.W. It would be
unreasonable to suggest that there is not good scope for
the intelligent, enterprising outsider.
»
The navvies on the Blue Mountain railway
works lately lost four consecutive days through a
S.W. gale that blew up the Kanimbla Valley.
There was no rain to speak of, but the dust was
like unto a sand-blast. Union organiser Arthur
Rae, reporting the occurrence, mentions that the
navvies were not allowed to work on the day
set apart for Humiliation and Prayer for rain,
“ and as no rain came the authorities were guilty
of retaining money under false pretences.”
The ineptitude of administration in the
Home affairs of the Commonwealth was blazoned
out by last week’s illuminations. No occasion
demanded them. They commemorated nothing.
They will be remembered for nothing. Long Bill
Lyne, in ordering the inconsequent flare-up, had
not even the excuse of Pickwick’s friend Winkle,
who knocked down the small boy because there
was a row in the street. There was no glimmer of
light in any Imperial establishment in Australia.
Not a flare on the warships, not a flash
from Govt. House. Yet full £5OOO wortli
of gas and dynamic force was used up
in the Australian capitals, and by order of Long
Bill aforesaid. Had John See been directly
responsible, the business would at least have been
explicable. His city would blaze out naturally.
He was in apotheosis, even as Shagpat, when the
Identical shot up. But Lyne had all that a couple
of years ago, and ought to have been used to it.
The pity is there is no more left of the £5OOO ex-
pended than the stink of a spluttering-out candle,
and unless Australia chooses to be dark when all
the rest of the empire is bright, it will have to be
done over again, and within a month or two.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Under license from the A.G.O. of A. Ld.
SPOT or FORWARD. LOWEST PRICES.
Storage can be arranged.
HY. MARK WALD,
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide,Auckland
Dunedin and Wellington,
them. The State suffers a heavy loss in consequence.
Further, Victoria charges no license fee as most of the
other States do. Tasmania and S.A. also charge no
income-tax. In 1901 the A.M.P. Society paid taxes after
this fashion:
Proportion of
Premiums
Taxes Premiums Absorbed by
Paid. Collected. Taxation.
Maoriland .. £10,911 £246,324 £4 8 7 per cent.
N.S.W. .. 3,841 469,680 0 16 4 „
S. Australia.. 2,438 145,029 1 13 7
Queensland.. 1,567 168,755 018 7 ~
Tasmania .. 95 68,060 0 210 „
Westralia .. 30 62,808 0 011
Victoria .. Nil 429,913 Nil
Maoriland collects more taxes from the A.M.P. Society
than all the other States put together. And the really
gratifying feature of the case as regards the Victorian
policy-holder, and in a less degree the Westralian, Tas-
manian, N.S.W. and S.A. policy-holder, is that, as the
Erofits are equally divided all round, the bulk of this
eavy Maoriland taxation comes out of their pockets, and
the Maorilander gets his large bonuses partly at their
expense.
» • * *
Sydney Daily Telegraph’s Nash still plods
away at his theory that if the Federal Government
required the banks to hold half their local cash reserves
in State paper, it would produce results too horrible to
mention. This is Nash’s latest as reported in his own
paper:—“ If the Federal Government took, say, one-half
the coin in the banks, giving them legal tender notes in
exchange, four things would happen. First, the banks
would have to repay their own notes which were in circu-
lation : secondly, they would have to hand over some
£10,000,000 in gold to the Government, and receive legal
tender notes in exchange ; thirdly, a reserve would have
to be created to secure the convertibility of the Govern-
ment notes into coin on demand; and, finally, the
Government would spend the money they received upon
permanent works, and money so sunk would be •irre-
coverable. The banks would be materially weakened by
what George Turner described as a forced loan without
interest, and would be compelled to charge the general
public with additional interest so as to make good what
the Government had taken from them for nothing. At
the same time, practically all the coin which the Govern-
ment expended on public works would leave the country.
It would not flow back to the banks. It was shown that
were the England called upon to pay gold to the
Government, not only for the notes in circulation, but
also for those in reserve, it would have to close its doors ;
and proposals which would have the effect of shutting up
the Bank of England were hardly such as would be of
advantage to Australia."
Which may be summed up as follows :
(1) The thing that has been actually done in another
country is impossible, and the thing that is can’t be,
because Mr. Nash says so.
(2) If the banks have to hold, say, half their cash reserves
—the money that doesn’t circulate—in Federal notes,
therefore they must withdraw their own notes from cir-
culation. Why they must do so isn’t explained. In
Canada the banks have to hold a certain proportion of
their reserves in Government paper, and they don’t with-
draw their own notes from circulation.
(3). A gold reserve would have to be created to secure
the convertibility of Government notes. Certainly! That
is what the advocates of the new system have always
urged.
(4). The money acquired under the new system would
be spent by the Federal Government on permanent
public works, and “ money so sunk is irrecoverable.” In
other words, it isn’t paid to the people in wages, and put
in circulation, to come back gradually to the Treasury in
the form of taxes, but is dropped into a deep part of the
sea where it is never seen again.
(5). The Bank of England couldn’t pay cash for the
notes it has in hand and in circulation, therefore the
Australian banks couldn’t either. As regards notes held
by the public, the Bank of England has £30,000,000 worth
in circulation and it holds only £35,000,000 of gold, and if
it cashed its notes it would be nearly broke on that trans-
action alone. The Australian banks have £3,500,000 of
notes in circulation and hold over £20,000,000 in gold, so,
according to Mr. Nash, they couldn’t afford to cash their
notes either. In other words, because the Bank of Eng-
land couldn’t afford to part with 86 per cent, of its gold,
the Australian banks couldn’t afford to part with 17 per
cent, of theirs. As a purely mechanical species of reason-
ing, based on the theory that whatever would happen in
England must happen here, whether the conditions are
the same or not, this is unique.
■* * * *
The Liverpool and London and Globe Insur-
ance Go. (Life department) :
Share- Added
holders’ to
Income. Claims. Expenses. Divi- Funds.
dend.
1894.. £624,974 £445,037 £28,033 £151,904
1895.. 736,524 456,129 28,816 251,579
1896.. 572,131 395,636 29,249 147,246
1897.. 590,984 377,367 30,673 182,944
1898.. 623,476 475,277 30,832 £86,903 30,464
1899.. 662,716 498,082 30,992 133,642
1900.. 629,539 480,295 31,517 117,727
1901.. 621,697 499,517 31,736 90,444
The total funds of the Liverpool and London and Globe’s
life and annuity department are now £5,562,523. Like
many other solid English offices, it doesn’t hustle
violently after new business, but rather takes such
as comes in its way. Also, about half its busi-
ness is in the sale of annuities, which is a cheap
form of insurance to manage, so the expenses, as
shown above, are very moderate. Including the
year’s proportion of the dividend the L. and L. and G.
was run last year at a cost of about £7 18s. per cent, per
annum on total income. The ordinary life department
by itself was run at a cost which may be roughly estim-
ated, including dividend, at a little under £lO per cent.
The bonuses paid are very handsome—£l 15s. per cent,
per annum on whole life policies—and there is a reserve
fund of £1,300,000 as a further security to policy-holders,
in addition to £884,230 of undivided profits. Altogether
there is more than the average solidity about the Liver-
pool and London and Globe Insurance Co.
■* * * *
It is generally reported that Victoria and
Queensland will both approach Pawnbroker Bull for a
loan very shortly. In a manner of speaking they will
meet on the premises, as Dickens’ Montague Tigg and
Martin Chuzzlewit met when Mr. Ohuzzlewit was pawn-
ing a watch after dark and Mr. Tigg was pawning a shirt.
• * * *
The Methody Australian, like a good many of
the rest of him, has been reckoning on 4 from 6 leaving
5. His “ Supernumerary Ministers’ and Ministers’ Widows’
Fund ” owes on a 4 per cent, basis £344,512, while the
funds reach only £242,810. It seems that the Methodist
parsons’ widows don’t re-marry as much as they ought for
the health of the fund ; it is probably explained by the
fact that they would usually have to take along from 10
to 14 encumbrances with them. Also the parson shows
an increasing desire to be superannuated early in life.
The fact is that the idiot of the family is taken into
the pulpit because he is “ such a good young man,”
but after he passes the pimply stage his “goodness"
doesn’t count for so much and his idiocy counts for more,
with the result that no circuit will willingly take him.
So the poor wretch, who ought to have been sent to grow
turnips in the first place, goes “on the funds,” with
insurance-drumming as a side-line.
• » * «
Co-operative Wool and Produce Co. (Sydney):
Profits. Dividends. ®° nus f to Re ‘
Clients, serves.
Feb., 1899.. 6 per cent. =£ll2 £2538 £2745
„ 1900.. £B7BB 6 „ „ 304 4506 6723
April, 1901.. 320 6 „ „ 855 6188
June, 1902.. 2689 6 „ „ 1408 7466
In its first two years the co. published only a very con-
densed statement of assets and liabilities, which makes it
impossible to show the exact position previous to
February, 1900. Since then the progress has, on
the whole, been good, and the reserves, £7469, are
very solid for so young an institution. The capital
is now £19,441. The co. has done good service to
the wool industry by the reduction it has made in
brokerage charges, and even out of its reduced charges it
gives part back as bonus in good years. At present,
however, the management is wisely devoting its surplus
to paying off the mortgage on its stores. The wool busi-
ness, and consequently the profits, may be much worse
before they are a little better, and the policy of reducing
liabilities is even more commendable than usual at such a
time as this. If the dividend had been lowered to 5 per
cent, it would have accelerated the commendable process.
• * * *
It is difficult to understand the frenzied excite-
ment of Sydney municipal council members over the let-
ting of an electric-lighting contract unless some people
have been “ seeing” aldermen. A council committee sat
last week right through a night wrangling over the con-
tract, and the general public, which remembers the gar-
bage destructor debates, begins to sniff cautiously.
■# * * *
“ P.” : It was asserted in N.S. W. Parlt. that the
Pinnacles mine, near Broken Hill, had paid tributors in
the past, and could now be worked by them at a profit,
which may or may not be true. But would it be possible
if different owners had not spent tens of thousands of
pounds in developing the mine ? And if tributors can
run the show at a big profit on their own account, how
is it that men could not earn half wages when working
for the company ? Why is it that men working on con-
tract, as is alleged by many N.S.W. managers, do a third
more work than they do on wages ? Either they must
work too hard in one case, or are not honest in the other.
* * » *
As long as the Minister can suspend the labor
covenants of mining leases without public inquiry there
will be such discontent and allegations of “ backstairs
influence” as were expressed the other night in N.S.W.
Assembly. Under the Gold Mines Act the local Warden
inquires ; under the Metalliferous Mines Act he doesn’t —
it all rests with the Minister. And the Minister doesn’t
always get the plain, unpainted truth ; and he is not
likely to, so long as nobody is there to point out in what
respects the applicant’s yarn does not hang together.
The miner who has built liis home alongside a mine, and
the business man who has settled there to serve
the miner, have both laid out their bit of money on the
strength of the labor-covenant that is in the lease;
and when it is proposed to hang up that covenant for
six or 12 months they have a solid claim to be heard.
It was contended in the particular case talked
of in the Assembly—the case of the Pinnacles outside
Broken Hill—that low metal prices do not justify a sus-
pension. And on general principles that is right enough.
When a mine is said to be shut down through low metal
prices it is really shut down because it is too poor to be
worked ; and when one lessee cannot work a claim the
old-established policy is that he must not go on holding
it, shepherding it for a rise ; he must move out and give
somebody else a chance. Still that must not be pushed
too far ; because the man or the co. who has sunk a heap
of money in shafts and plant, and, having got into ore,
has the bad luck to forthwith strike a slump in the metal
market, is entitled to consideration, and it is better for
both the mining industry and the working-miner that he
should have it. The co. which, having gutted its mine of
good ore when prices were high, and had orgies on the
proceeds, shuts down when times are bad, is in another
street, though. That is the sort of thing which ought to be
jumped on with both feet. Yet the Junction, at Broken
Hill, which stood in just that position, got an exemption
awhile ago. Writer knows that it is scandalously unfair
to the miner to send him adrift in the slump that follows
the boom, and also that it is damaging to the State ; but
he does not so surely know how to stop it—there seems a
hole in every Iplan offering. The best perhaps is the
compulsory creation of a reserve fund out of profits, said
reserve not to be touched until the lessee can no longer
pay working expenses out of current revenue—to save
enough from the overnight spree to buy a drink with in
the morning.
* * * *
The first deposit in connection with the Great
Oobar deal has been “put up” in London, but if, as is
alleged, it is not forfeitable this signifies nothing. In any
case it would not mean much, seeing that the balance is
over £1,000,000. It would be a simple matter for the
average London company-monger to deposit documents
representing £25,000 on the understanding that they
could be reclaimed at call, but even the Rothschilds,
the Rockfellers, the Werner Beits, the Heinzes, the
Clarkes and other mighty magnates in the copper world
will make pause before they plank down £1,060,000 in
sovereigns in exchange for a mining property. They will
have to be satisfied that there are other millions in it.
• » » *
Mr. “Sid.” Joseph, who is in Sydney, engineer-
ing the Cobar deal, would assuredly suffer from “ swelled
head ” were he about half as innocent as he looks. Various
newspapers credit him with being the representative of
the biggest financiers in England, France, Germany, and
America, and all praise him —deservedly—for the tact he
must have displayed in reconciling the conflicting Oobar
interests, and thus making business negotiations pos-
sible. He says that the newspapers are all wrong in their
guesses as to who his principals are. They are good
enough, he adds, if the property is reported to be good
enough. He is thankful to the hundreds of people who
send him sacks of ore-samples from lodes 100 ft. wide, only
“ waiting capital to develop them,” but would like it to
be understood that he has no road-metal contract on
hand, neither is he commissioned to buy the whole of
N.S.W.
■* * * *
Cobar Chesney : A syndicate, which took up a
lot of forfeited shares, has been trying to make a market
in Sydney, leaving Melbourne, where the facts are known,
carefully alone. But Sydney isn’t taking any Chesney
just now, and the syndicate is likely to hold its cheap
shares. Sydney holders are anxious to know why they
were not apprised of the fact that it was the intention to
allot forfeited shares. It is usual to allow existing holders
a preference in the taking up of such shares. Also, share-
holders have a right to be told what opinion Mr. Higgins
has expressed on the proposal to erect reverb, furnaces on
the mine—rumor has it that it is decidedly adverse.
* * * *
Hillgrove Proprietary: Reported that the
English shareholders have agreed to increase the capital
by 2s. 6d. per share, payable at once. Rough on local
holders and recent buyers, but a much more sensible way
of raising the capital needed than either additional shares
or debentures would have been. Alleged that the object
of raising the value of the shares is to knock out local
holders, but this is absurd as the call will have to be paid
on all shares. A debenture issue would have been a much
simpler way of knocking out.
• * * *
A few figures got together from the customs
returns for the Jan.-June half of the last three years to
show what the silver-lead slump has done for Broken
Hill. Quantities are in the first lines, values in the
second :
1900. 1901. 1902.
Ore .. .. 58,863 tons 38,834 tons 47,104 tons
£151,305 £116,352 £61,098
Concentrates.. 112,866 tons 136,838 tons 115,140 tons
£809,455 £743,200 £453,193
Slimes.. .. 19,712 tons 19,705 tons 18,446 tons
£14,407 £20,018 £12,120
As nearly as can be estimated, the labor cost of producing
the £526,411 in ’O2 was between three-fourths and four-
fifths of the cost of producing the £975,167 in ’OO.
* * * *
A Dunedin correspondent states that dredges
are being sacrificed wholesale. Plants which cost from
£6OOO to £9OOO are being sold at from £BOO to £2OOO, in-
cluding claim in some cases, without a turn having been
taken out of the machinery. Same in N.S.W., where
dredges can be bought for less than was paid for engine
and boilers.
* * * *
To hear of 308 oz. 15dwt. from 6 tons, crushed
from the Spirit of the West claim, at Broad Arrow (W.A.),
comes like a dash of something strong after a long course
of “soda” straight. And the party had dollied out a
bit, too, before they sent it to the stamps.
* * * *
The management of Island Eureka, Lake Aus-
ten (W.A.), has decided to duplicate its mill by
addition of ten head of 10001 b. stamps, and to erect a
1000-ton a month cyanide plant. A 6 or 8-rock-drill plant
is to be installed, and main shaft sunk 200 ft. Since May
last year co. has, out of revenue, distributed £lO,OOO in
divs., installed a 10-head mill, opened out three levels,
and has surplus sufficient to cover proposed extensions.
Mill has treated 8194 tons for 14,0250 z., worth £56,000,
and has accumulated tailings worth 6dwt. per ton still
to be treated at an estimated cost of Bs. In addition to
Eureka lode hitherto worked, a second lode, 16ft. wide,
carrying visible gold in places, has recently been located
by an eastern crosscut. A year ago Adelaide held 6000
out of co.’s 80,000 shares, and now owns 42,000. Manage-
ment of mine is a credit to all concerned. The 3d.
monthly div. will be continued meanwhile, and doubled,
or trebled, on completion of extensions.
Particulars re proposed amalgamation of
Hannan’s Brown Hill and Oroya are slowly filtering
through. Brown Hill ore reserves are valued at £350,000,
but value per ton and probable margin for divs. are not
mentioned. Plant valued at £lOO,OOO, a ridiculous figure,
as the dry crushers are only fit for the scrap-heap, and a
second-hand 20-head mill would be dear at £15,000. Then
the costs of cyanide and royalty alone per Diehl process
come to 9s. 9d. per ton, which renders the process pro-
hibitive. Oroya shareholders should strenuously oppose
any attempt to saddle their mine with the Brown Hill
incubus. Whenever the Oroya directors announce the
purchase of a treatment-plant it is prophesied that shares
will go to £5, and then the Brown Hill scheme will be seen
at its true worth.
«• * * »
The Cosmopolitan, Kookynie (W.A.) cleared
profits of £26,800 during 1901, but most of this was ex-
pended on capital account. An electric pumping plant,
capable of dealing with 600,000 gals, daily, is being
installed to scare away the water bogey. Stated that
monthly output will be reduced from 5000ozs. to 3000ozs.
till developments are pushed several years ahead of mill.
Such action will give bears a fresh opportunity of banging
the shares.
* * » •
Chairman of Great Boulder Main Reef (W.A.)
told shareholders at recent annual meeting that an offer
had been made for their property on the basis of £1 per
share. This had been declined in view of promising
developments at depth. This mine since its control by
Bewick, Moreing and co. has been a sealed book —visitors
and reporters are sooled off the premises. If favorable
developments exist their presence has been carefully con-
cealed. This policy gave insiders an opportunity of
scooping in the shares at about 10s., or half the present
price. The treatment plant, which has run uninter-
ruptedly for over three years, is practically worn out, and
will shortly have to be replaced. Unless something
exceptionally good is being concealed, current price of
shares is a ridiculously inflated one.
• * » *
Queen Margaret Central, Bulong (W.A.) is
having a parcel of 100 tons ore treated from its 400 ft.
level. The management can make the average pretty
much what it likes, as 200 oz. of gold are already in the
safe, recovered from the stone in breaking down. Save as
a gambling-counter, shares are valueless on present
system of working. There is practically no equipment,
and not more than half-a-dozen men are employed, all on
hand labor.
• * * *
Writer has just made an exhaustive examina-
tion of the Devon Consols, Kalgoorlie (W.A.), owned by
Oades and Son, and finds a large amount of development
in progress. The chief work is exploring at the 160 ft.
level, where a large amount of driving has been done.
The lode varies in width from 3ft. to 9ft. but is much
broken-up and faulted in places. Down to 240 ft. the ore
is oxidised, and the sulphide zone has not been
touched so far. Last fortnight’s crushing yielded 2860 z.
from 124 tons, quite equal to recent averages. This
return brings up the total for the past six months to
1500 oz.
* • * •
Negotiations are pending for the sale of the
Princess Royal, Norseman (W.A.), the most consistent
gold-producer and div.-payer still under Australian con-
trol. No particulars re the deal have been made known
so far. Co., up to date, has treated 60,000 tons for
70,0000 z., and distributed £60,000 odd to its fortunate
shareholders.
» * * *
The Australia East lode, now being worked m
the south block of Oroya (W.A.), has been located in the
Trafalgar, adjoining on the south-east. All sorts of sen-
sational rumors are being circulated as to the value of
the ore being raised and bagged, which accounts for
recent activity of scrip. From the underground plan of
the Oroya there is no doubt that the lode strikes in the
direction of the Trafalgar, but the Oroya’s workings are
a long distance north of the boundary of latter. As
Trafalgar is controlled by Horatio Bottomley, everything
will be done to ensure an active market and hoist the
shares.
* * • #
The Central Boulder (W.A.) adjoining Oroya
on west, on the recommendation of Boulder Hamilton,
has been tested by a horizontal bore from Oroya’s No. 6
level. The result has been wholly disappointing. A
further bore test from surface is now being made, and
will go to a depth of 1100 ft. Lease in question contains
only 6 acres, so is not of much account.
* * » *
Among W.A. mines on which money has
been, and is being, lavishly spent are the following:
Oroya East, on which shaft is down 500 ft. ; Golden Pike,
which is cross-cutting at 1000 ft. ; Boulder North Ex-
tended, which is boring from the 800 ft. level. None of
these properties has brilliant future prospects, and the
money being expended appears an absolute waste.
* • • *
Developments on North Kalgurli (W.A.) are
looking so well that it is seriously contemplated to sell
the old 10-head mill and to acquire a thoroughly up-to-
date plant. Nutman, the manager, has a good record
for economical working, and if there is a possibility of
making the mine a success he may be expected to do it.
* • • *
The first labor-trouble has arrived at Ebagoola
(N.Q.) in the strike now on at the “ All Nations." The
co. wants to make wages in a wet claim £3 10s., (10s. less
than at Croydon, where living costs far less) and is trying
to get men from Chillagoe. Of course it’s a storm in a
teacup, only about half-a-dozen men being affected, but
behind it is the well-grounded fear that if this co. is able
to establish such a rate in its mine, there will follow an
all-round cut throughout N.Q.
* * * •
Charters Towers crows exultantly. Last year
some alleged Southern experts “ appeared in our midst
and pronounced the doom of the field on strictly scien-
tific lines.” The Southerners were very much out in their
judgment—they did not reckon on the possibility of one
mine turning the tables completely against them. The
records for the half years, ended Dec. and June last, are
respectively: Divs., £125,956; calls, £28,987, profit,
£96,969. Divs., £178,175 ; calls, £23,750 ; profit, £154,425
—or an improvement in the last term of 60 per cent. The
Towers will appreciate more “doom” of the same kind.
It is certainly gratifying to find the old field re-asserting
itself, and while it must be admitted that the recent
marked increase in the value of shares is in most in-
stances justified by prospects, the question arises—are
not values now in the top notch both in mines which may
fairly be classed as investments and speculations ?
Sydneyites’ eagerness to get in at the top—which they
do with unfailing regularity—will be Towers men’s
opportunity to get out. There are two fields in Aus-
tralia where, locally, share values are regulated very
closely, according to results and reasonable probabilities
—O. T. and Bendigo—and the outsider who assumes that
he knows better than the local man will find himself left—
lamenting.
* * • *
The Hustler’s line of reef is more closely asso-
ciated with the fame of Bendigo than any other, although
for years it has been least in evidence. Its surface formations
provided the sensations of the early reefing days, and the
veritable jeweller’s shop of the Extended “ Pups ” was pri-
marily responsible for the insanity of the boom of the
first '7o’s. It is once more coming into prominence,
owing to a splendid find in the old Hustler’s mine, at
about 1300 ft., which is called shallow ground. Almost as
a forlorn hope a crosscut was put out into untried
country at that depth, with the result that a massive
reef of highly payable quality was found. Crushings, so
far, from levels and rises, have averaged over ljoz. This
discovery will probably lead to mine-owners on other
lines paying attention to the shallow country, which, in
many instances, has not been thoroughly prospected, the
craze having been for deep sinking, which has'been a
distinct failure.
• * * *
New Moon (Bendigo) closed last half-year with
ts usual record—average about 7dwts., three of which
presented profit. Years of work still in sight in the
massive, spurry formation, but the brightest prospect is
in the bottom level—l4ooft.—where they appear to be
intersecting the reef proper—that from which the South
Moon has been getting, and will continue for years to get,
such big returns. Stock without declared sellers for over
a month past, which is the most eloquent evidence as to
what is thought of prospects.
• * • *
Briseis water-supply equal to expectations and
requirements. Large bodies of overburden are being
removed and it will not be long before the tin-bearing
drift will be operated on wholesale. “ Little ” Langford,
who is in London, is reported to have acquired a big block
of shares which were in dangerous hands—the danger
being in the risk of the parcel being dumped on the
market for realisation in one line. Manager Hawley is as
sanguine as ever as to results. There has been one boom
in the shares, but it was not of long duration owing to
the demoralising effect of large selling orders from
London. This leakage having been stopped by Langford,
it seems safe to predict that, should Hawley’s first
general clean-up be anything like what is anticipated—■
and it has to be noted that so far as the works have
proceeded he has not been astray in his calculations and
promises—there will be another boom. Anyhow, at
present, Briseis ought to be better buying than selling.


MIDWINTER SALE.
PA VIP JONES* COMPANY
SPECIAL PURCHASE °r An>'ricai> Sdit Cases
Anjsricaij Haijdbags_^
Entire Stock of Manufacturer’s Samples at Little At Less Than
More than One-Half of the Usual Sydney Prices. New York Prices
Real Alligator Handbags, 15 and 18 inch, usual price 75s ; Sale Price, 37s 6d.
Real Alligator Suit Cases, 24 inch, usual price 6 Guineas ; Sale Pripe, 73s 6d.'
Real Alligator Dressing Bags, 17 inch, usual price 97s 6d ; Sale Price, 49s 6d.
Real Horn-back Alligator Handbags, 14 and 16 inch, usual prices 52s 6d, 98s 6d ; Sale Prices, 32s 6d 46s 6d
Polished Calf Suit Cases, 22 to 26 inch, usual prices 57s 6d, 755, 1265 ; Sale Prices, 39s 6d, 52s 6d 63s
Dress Suit Cases, 20 to 24 inch, usual prices 755, 955 ; Sale Prices, 39s 6d, 52s 6d. ’ ’
GEORGE at) d BARRACK STS., SYDNCY
• • y,
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
SOCIETY
Even among what may be called the
common-or-garden “loyalists” of England, where
ordinary “loyalty ” is of a stronger habit than in
any other part of Britain, there was quite a large
minority that disapproved of the King’s gaudy
Coronation scheme—the scheme which has now
been reduced to something of “a more quiet and
religious character.”' It was remarked that His
Maj. had outlived his time for such a royal circus-
show. Also Queen Alexandra’s artificial youth-
fulness was spoken of as a shock in store for the
masses, who having acquired a sort of affection
for the late Queen Victoria because she played a
simple old-woman part, would be all the more
likely to ridicule the new Queen for persisting in
the farce of trying to look younger than her
youngest child. All things considered King Ned’s
appendicitis was a stroke of luck for the blessed
British constitution. In place of a nauseating
parade of pomp and nonsense to the glory of the
Crown there will be a comparatively hearty-
seeming ceremony of Coronation-cum-Thanks-
giving. Human interest in the appearance of
Edward the Convalescent will lend a touch of
nature, as it were, to the elaborate make-up of his
nearly-widowed wife. He will get a prodigious
amount of credit for having pulled through a
severe illness, whilst she—thanks to newspaper
fiction—figures as the “devoted nurse ” who was
an invaluable aid to the patient’s recovery.
* • * *
Still another “mentioned one” for the
Governor-Generalship—this time a commoner in
the person of millionaire (three times over)
“Harry” M’Calmont, M.P. M‘Calmont is
known to fame only as a racehorse-owner who won
the Derby a few years back. At the general
election of ’95 the horsey electors of Newmarket
(Cambridge) thought fit "to throw over Tit Bits
Newnes for the popular owner of the famous Isin-
HIS AMBITION.
PROUD FATHER TO FIRST SON: “ What do you want to he when you’re a man, Geoff?”
GEOFF. : “I want to be an architect.”
PROUD FATHER TO SECOND SON: “And what do you want to he, Jack?”
JACK: “I want to he A father?”
glass. Since his election to Parliament for the
sporting borough he has done nothing to awaken
political interest beyond winning the “ blue ribbon
of the turf.” Although only 41, he has already
been married three times ; on two of these occa-
sions he led to the altar the daughter of a British
general. He is a military man himself, but looks
more like a London alderman than a soldier. In
build, as in temperament, he somewhat resembles
Toby Barton, and brother man invariably votes
him a “good sort.” The reigning Mrs. M'Cal-
mont has never worried herself about “ society.”
Governor-General Hopetoun having de-
cided not to draw any of his salary while he is on
the way to England, Lord Tennyson, who is to
temporarily fill his place, has foregone his claim
to any portion of the State salary while he is
acting in the Federal office, and so impecunious
S.A. will save .£2OOO a year. The other £2OOO
will go to Sammy Way, who, together with his
salary as Chief-Justice, will thus have £BO a week
to entertain on if he is so minded.
* * * •
Most entertaining was the air of indigna-
tion and alarm that rapidly communicated itself
to the columns of the Melbourne press when it
was thought possible that Lord Tom Brassey was
coming out as Governor-General. How hard those
readers who take their opinions of men and things
in penny doses from the papers must have found
it to comprehend this horror ! What had Uncle
Tom done since his departure ? While in Victoria,
as Governor, he had been, by universal press con-
sent, a fine, learned, imposing old gentleman, one
whose opinion on matters by sea or land was
worth diamonds and rubies ; he was, in short, all
that heart could desire. Why, then, this shocked
expression—this inference that Australia was
about to bounce herself off Chamberlain’s chest
simply because Lord Thomas was offered as
Governor-General ? Grovel comes home to roost
like this sometimes. Victorian loyalists, after
cracking “Uncle Tom” up to the highest, were
asked (or thought they were asked) to take him at
their own valuation.
* * • *
Brisbane’s fervid Jingoes grow desperate
over that fund for a statue to Queen Victoria.
Latest is a resolve to make a house to-house
canvass.
* * » *
As the interchange of pictures between
the States has been found such an artistic success,
what if an interchange of Governors were tried ?
The “Queen of Sheba” has given pleasure to
many serious-minded people in the course of her
circuit, and it might be found the same with the
State Governors. People get tired of looking at
the same man, and seeing a par. about him every
morning in the papers.
* * • *
That truly comic journal, Melbourne
Paunch, scored a record grovel, t’other week,
with a cartoon, showing a tall Edward VII. re-
clining on a couch in the full enjoyment of a royal
cigar. The monarch’s personal approval of his
recent conduct was beautifully expressed in the
remark that he had “fairly earned the Crown” —
by his august illness. In the eyes of poor old
Paunch and sichlike, the King can’t even get a
disease without strengthening his hereditary claim
to exaltation.
A small boy in Ashburton (M.L.) was
asked by his teacher to write on “The Peace.”
Result
The Boers fought against England and Mr. Seddon sent
the army to Africa and fought them. By and bve every-
one thought it time to stop, but the Boers wouldn’* - So
Mr. Seddon went to South Africa and told the Boers he
would send another army if they would not make peace,
and they did providing he would be their Governor and
he promised he would be.
Which is about as true as most accepted chapters
of history.
A man with an
air of respectable
despair wandered
into the Welling-
ton (M.L.) Regis-
try of Births,
Deaths and Mar-
riages, leaned
over the coun-
ter, and whis-
pered into the
official ear that
he had some-
thing on his
mind. The Re-
gistrar, whose
business is
chiefly with
people with
something on
their minds, af-
fably requested
him to unload
it. “Well,”
said the mourn-
ful one, “I’m
going to get
married to a
woman to whom
I have never taken
my hat off.” “Well?”
said the recorder. “Well,
be hanged,” snapped the stranger, “ I’m Ifaffr,
and there’ll be the deuce to pay when she
knows. What would you advise me to do?”
“Go straight away to her and lift your hat,” said
the official. The stranger gazed blankly for a
moment, then seized his hat. “I’ll do it,” he
whispered fiercely and bolted. The Registrar
chuckled as he conjured up a picture of a pair
of liquid eyes looking sorrowfully over a bald
patch where a drought had killed off the under-
scrub.
* * * »
Writes an expert Bulletin correspon-
dent :
Does anybody know why the Sydney trams are not
fitted with life-guards ? These are much used in America,
but so far as I know, Perth has the only Australian tram
system which has properly-fitted nets in advance of its
cars. The expense is trifling, the device being a simple
affair of bent gas-pipes and rope netting. This projects
about 18in. in front of the car and prevents the unwary
from getting under the wheels. I have known this guard
pick up numerous dogs and small boys, not to mention
one large, fat woman. One boy was safely harvested
with the tram going full speed, and a very astonished boy
he was. The Perth trams ran for nearly two years with-
out a single fatal accident, although the promptly-acting
air-brake is not in use. Besides saving life this form of
guard reduces the force of collision with vehicles, the im-
pact generally crumpling up the net supports and saving
the car itself from injury. I once saw a curious occurrence
of this kind. A tram overtook a milk-cart and the guard-
net slid under the wheels of the cart, lifting it up and
shoving the horse forward. The car would then have
come to a standstill but that the shock of the impact had
jerked the milkman off his seat on to the tram-controller,
knocking the handle forward a couple of notches, and
thus putting the car into slow motion again. “Why
don’t you stop her?” yelled the milkman. “Because
you’re sitting on the blanky controller 1 ” replied the
motorman as he dragged him off.
* * • *
Torrey (without Guile) has not been able to
arouse Tas. from its long sleep, though he blew
for 10 days and 10 nights on the trump of judg-
ment to do it. Neither he nor his singing dervish,
the mournful Alexander, it seems, is to the taste
of the slumberous-eyed Tassies or the local press.
The public go to the exhibitions out of simple
human curiosity, and the reporters attend in a
vain search for copy. That is about all. T’other
day a sad-eyed pressman happened to be in the
hail at “ conversion ” time. “ Are you saved, my
friend?” asked an undiscriminating enthusiast.
“ I’m a reporter,” said he of the inky soul. “ Oh,
I beg your pardon,” gasped the horrified saint,
and he scuttled for the security of the choir-stand
as though he had seen an imp from the Pit. A
day or two later Torrey begged his congregation
to pray for the newspaper men of Tasmania. In
several of the other States, he said, reporters and
literary men had boen amongst his first converts !
* * * *
Thus Brisbane Telegraph re Tommy
Tanna:
He and his crowd are, to begin with, most moral, and
naturally so. He is fond of his home and his Mary.
How Kanakas (or any other race) can be moral
when only one out of every 12 of them in
Queensland has any available Mary is hard
to say. There is no doubt Tommy Tanna
is fond “of his home and of his Mary,”
when he has any. The only trouble is that
he usually camps in a hut along with 20 or 30
other Kanakas, and consequently can’t be said to
have any home. And, as 11 Kanakas out of every
12 in Queensland are not married, and cannot
possibly get married, unless to a degraded white
woman, Tommy is reduced to the alternative of
being fond of some other fellow’s Mary, for which
it’s really very hard to blame him.
* * * *
A very irregular bridegroom didn’t take
the trouble to put in an appearance in the Natal
Divorce Court t’other day. The petitioning bride
related how she had journeyed from Australia to
S’Africa to wed him. They were married at
Maritzburg in January, and the bridal party
drove off towards their mountain residence. On
the road they met Lizzie, a Kaffir girl, and the
bridegroom jumped out, leaving his lawful wife
in the vehicle, and put his arm round the girl’s
neck.
Plaintiff confessed that, being new to the country, she
was quite ignorant of the way in which natives were
treated by white people. She was quite satisfied that
the pair had been living together.
The moral for the Australasian girl, with a lover
in S’Africa —be prepared for colored rivals.
* * * *
Vic. Treasurer Shiels has decided to in-
crease the diffidence of old age pension applicants
by making them go to the police for their fort-
nightly doles in the larger towns. Whenever
Govt, nowadays wants to rid itself of some of the
cost of doing things, it shoves the work on to the
local “trap,” who spends all his time chasing the
elusive rabbit, or doing various other jobs which
have no relation to the preservation of the peace.
In the old days, these tasks were carried out with
becoming alacrity and a beautiful disregard for
the misdoings of the township drunk, as there
happened to be fees attached, and the active
polieeman-cum-rabbit-inspector-ete. had a lovely
chance of honestly coming by much house-pro-
perty, if of a saving turn. Now there are no fees,
and the policeman lets a perfunctory spirit creep
into the whole of his duties. ,
PERFECTLY HARMLESS,
“Is it quite the thing to have a gentleman!s por-
trait in your dressing-room? ”
“Oh, it doesn’t matter — he’s looking the other way!”
An ugly row is being raised in Melbourne
by that restless being, ex-Constable Crowe, who
charges members of the force with being in league
with convicted thieves, with getting convictions
by wilful perjury, with blackmail, and with
faking evidence to gain a conviction. The gravity
of the thing is increased by the fact that Crowe pub-
lished a pamphlet and delivered lectures months
ago, giving names of individuals concerned, and
charging supers, and inspectors with connivance;
yet till the Trades Hall leaders brought the
matter before Chief Sec. Murray, not one of the
maligned officials moved to clear his character.
Murray promises an inquiry.
* * • •
Yic. penal department is just now being
haunted by a creature which feels annoyed because
it was not given the job of torturing Walter
William Baker, the Mafficker who bit another
citizen’s nose at Bendigo. This person was put
on to do a previous flogging job, and the prison
bosses expressed the warmest approval of his
strong right arm, and hinted that he might come
in for some more work of the same kind. When
Baker’s turn came along, however, his skin was
handed over for treatment to the hangman and
flagellator in ordinary, a personage who is “ doing
time” for a brutish offence. He was suffering
from a sore arm, and although he managed to
liberally streak the victim’s back with gore, he
didn’t put the utmost possible amount of
brutality into the job. His rival consequently
rushed round to know why he hadn’t got the work,
and was only partially mollified when assured
that his previous attempt had caused his subject
most intense agony, and that his valuable service
to the State would not be overlooked in the event
of any future emergencies.
Whenever a new man is put on to flog in
Vic. prisons he first goes through an elaborate
rehearsal with a dummy victim. If he succeeds
in bringing before the minds of the officials a
sufficiently vivid picture of the tortured and
bleeding flesh he is taken on. The fee for the
infamy is one guinea.
* m * m
The Queensland Bible-in-schools party
recently announced to a rather thin and dull
meeting in Brisbane that it has taken a refer-
endum, on its own, of the parents of children
attending Queensland State schools. Result:
20,942 parents were in favor of Scripture teaching
in schools; 1417 were against; 3594 gave no
answer. This accounts for barely 26,000 parents,
and 92,000 Queensland school-children have surely
more parents than that. The Queensland statutory
school age is from six to 12. Supposing every pair
of parents had three children, aged between six
and 12, attending school, which is utterly un-
believable, still 92,000 school children should have
nearly 60,000 parents.
Even if the statement of the result of the refer-
endum is quite true, there seems a fair possibility
that the league made a very careful selection of
the parents applied to. If it took them as they
came then it appears to have such an overwhelm-
ing majority that all it wants is a State re-
ferendum on the subject to prove that the people
are with it, and to sweep away all opposition
like a beetle in the Deluge. But instead of this
it wants Premier Philp to legislate—apparently
on the alleged evidence of its referendum. It says
that, at the poll taken by itself, with itself as
returning officer and sole candidate, it was elected
by a large majority; and that when it ran by
itself and held the watch at the same time it beat
all competitors. This is very good in its way, but
still the other party would like to be represented.
The Church never seems to make any headway at
a general election when things are done publicly,
but it turns up every now and then to explain
that it had an enormous majority when the other
party wasn’t looking.
AN APPEAL.
King Edward First in days t>f yore,
So run historic tales,
With vengeance dread,
Once slaughtered
The hapless bards of Wales.
Now Coronation poems cast
O’er this young land a gloom,
Yet hope doth rise
As with glad eyes
We read that tale of Doom.
If mercy in thy kingly heart
For subjects sore prevails,
Rise, Ned, and slay,
Without delay,
The bards of New South Wales.
CONSTANCE CLYDE.


Epileptic Fits.
rpRENCH’S REMEDY gives immediate
relief and permanent cure. A valuable
booklet free. The Union manufacturing Co.,
361 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Wild’s, in the Sydney Arcade, is the most
fashionable gentlemen’s hairdressing saloon in
Sydney. Every attention possible is paid to the
customers by six expert hairdressers. Adress.—
30 Sydney Arcade, entrance from George-street
or King street, Sydney.*
w Dis is wot
1 grov/d on
MARK
TRADE
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Australia’s
Leading Tonic
Beverage.
The girl-horror which holds the record up
to date comes from Auckland (M.L.); in some
respects, it even beats that old story of the 15-
year-old girl who went amissing for two days,
and then was found relating to the police a
dreadful tale of how she came of noble
parentage, and had been confined in a subter-
ranean dungeon for 16 years. The Auckland girl,
who is aged 17, went out on a wet night to deliver
a letter. She says that three armed men bore
down on her in the rain and ordered her to pub-
licly take off everything except her boots, which
she seems to have done without remonstrance.
Then they allowed her to disguise herself in her
mackinproof and umbrella, in which deficient cos-
tume she arrived at a friend’s house and told her
anecdote. Shortly after she had finished un-
burdening herself, her clothes were found quite
dry on the verandah, whereas she said she had
taken them off. in the rain, and, presumably,
left them in the sloppy street, some dis-
tance away. Wherefore a suspicion arose
that she had arrived dry (by reason of the
rain-cloak) on the friend’s verandah, and
had undressed herself there under cover, just
before making her sensational entrance. Another
theory seems to be that the three men had
followed her with the clothes, having washed and
dried them in the rain as they went. The three
men, according to the victim, didn’t touch her
bare and shivering form, and offered no explana-
tion of their conduct, save that they were tired of
playing ping-pong. Strangely enough, it is said
that that same night another girl turned up
without even a mackintosh on, but slightly dis-
guised by an umbrella. She also asserted that
three armed men had urged her to undress in a
public place, and she had done so; but in her case
the miscreants smote her bare form with the butt-
ends of their pistols and gagged her. The story of
the first girl was told to the police by the girl
herself. The second, which followed, came in
the form of a letter to the local Stab ; the second
girl was too modest to inform the police
about what happened to her; possibly she
allowed her tale to be revealed to the papers lest
the first girl might be unjustly doubted, and by
way of corroboration. A reporter, however, failed
to find the second girl, or anybody dimly re-
sembling her, at the address given, but whether
the first undressed girl—the one whose dry clothes
were found on the verandah that wet night—
invented the second undressed girl, or the second
one invented herself, is all a mystery. Nearly
every girl-story is a mystery these times.
* * * *
The young man who invents a burglar that
robbed him, under shriekful circumstances, of his
savings, thereby rendering it impossible for him
to get married, may yet become a feature of Aus-
tralian society. He is not so numerous as the girl
who was “assaulted,” but he is coming on. The
latest, from Melbourne, was an unfortunate speci-
men. His burglar climbed in over a high gate, and
left it shut behind him, thus cutting off his own
retreat if he had to leave in haste. There was an
open basement door, but apparently he didn’t try
the doors. Instead he climbed on a low roof by a
ladder, hauled the ladder up after him, carried it
across the roof, climbed up again to the window of
the young man who was going to be married, and
took all his money. Then he went back the same
useless and difficult way, like a man who climbs
up the post-office tower and down again to save
going round. He left behind him a poker
borrowed from a downstairs room, which
room he had thoughtfully locked again. The
yard-dog didn’t hear him, and he left no
footprints, and nobody saw him. But a
shot was fired, and the landlord, rushing down,
found his robbed and ruined lodger in the yard
with a graze on his neck and a stirring tale of
how he had pursued the burglar and fought a
grievous battle with him, but failed to recover his
“splosh,” and the burglar’s movements were
pieced together from his narrative. The police
A DOUBT.
TEACHER: “Seven from eleven?”
BRIGHT BOY (in difficulties): “ Which Eleven, please Miss?"
decided that he was a most circuitous and un-
cteciaea unao ne w«ia, , vmine . man
who'is six feet Hgh and of good character, to
WHO is six ieeb mg . Wherennon
invented it afl in order to get out of his marriage,
because he hadn’t enough money to buy the furni-
f-i ir p The Australian vounsr man xacGCl Oniistian
de Wet courageously enough, even when that
terrible Dutchman was in a comer and roused to
terrioie • j in
frock and tell her that the table hasn’t
a raubim iiook. auu
come - , * . *
HT> ! Tvn » in
Burglar Bill . Re the decrea
N.S.W. prison population referred to in the
Comptroller-General’s report. Isn’t the reduction
due to the fact that imprisonment terms now
average much shorter than was the case a few
vears back? I think there has been a reduction
of about six months in the average sentence
since ’95
ANOTHER REFORM MOVEMENT.
REFORMER : “ Fact is, old chap, I find that
drink interferes with my work, so I've
decided to knock off work.”
A recent paternity case has gravely exer-
cised the official mind in one of the smaller States,
A leper was incarcerated for life, and after two or
three years his wife gave birth to a son. She had
been allowed a small sum by the State, in that
she had been deprived of the services of her bread-
winner. The advent of the little one was followed
by the stoppage of the dole. The woman indig-
nantly protested that her child was the offspring
of her husband, whom she had been allowed to
visit, under, it was thought, the strictest sur-
veillance. The institution officials vowed that
the woman’s story was untrue, but the husband
corroborated his wife’s account. The Law Officers
of the Crown were then appealed to, and
announced that, as the husband had claimed
paternity, no one could gainsay him, and the im-
putation against the woman’s character was dis-
credited.
*** _ *
Queensland Cabinet has decided to release
37 prisoners in honor of the Coronation; N.S.W.
Cabinet decided not to release any.
, . » *
Advice to young ladies in Melbourne
j y .«Observe the value of reticence.
pemauy sleuoei . vuomvd » a
Do not iet your suitor see t ? o much of you And
Y e t the chorus and ba e gir' ‘ ~ , 7
making good matches m Me y.
A sensible
suggestion on the
notice paper of
N.S.W. Assembly
is that the police
should be en-
dowed with power
to arrest the loaf-
ers who make the
streets of Sydney
look like a doss-
house for people
who sleep perpen-
d i cularly—instead
of merely taking
their names, which
are always Brown,
and their ad-
dresses, which are
mostly at some
house which
proves to be ex-
clusively occupied
by a respectable
family named
Smith. The har-
dened loafer —the
one whose removal
is really essential
—is perfectly well
aware that the
police have no
power beyond
taking his bogus
name and his sham
address. There-
fore, the police-
man being his
natural enemy he loafs something extra in
order to worry him. A photo, of a busy Sydney
street, garnished with its Saturday-afternoon
swarm of shabby gazers, if published in a foreign
magazine, an impression that the
city was all out of work simultaneously.
There ig little comfor fc after all in the Bill
T , > ■« t a r 11 i•
fathered by E.M. Clark, M.L.A., for the dis-
couragement of the Bile Boots advt. on the shores
of the Beautiful Harbor. The document, just to
hand, sets forth that after the passing of the
measure no one shall “ erect or cause to be erected
or allow or suffer to continue so erected,” the Bile
Hat placard anywhere in the County of Cumber-
jand without permission of the local council. And
on the shores of Sydney harbor no one “shall
erect or cause to be erected ” the obnoxious Pink
Pants poster, but the measure doesn t prohibit
the continuance of it when it is already there
So, apparently, the existing outrage may stay till
Doomsday if the local council consents, which it
usually does for adequate remuneration.
The undertaker faces death
with more heroism and fortitude
than the hangman, the Christian
or the soldier—and his wife
knows more secrets than the
diplomatist. For instance, one
well-known Australian under-
taker (a somewhat important
politician in his day) was
seated at a banquet-table,
and the champagne was
flowing, and “ He’s a jolly
good fellow” was resound-
ing, when a telegram from
his wife “at the shop”
was handed to him. With-
out any interruption to the
jollity of the evening that
undertaker handed back to
the telegraph-boy this mes-
sage : “Cut his sinews.”
It related to a corpse which
refused to fit into its
coffin.
* • •
Influence is what en-
ables our enemies to get
good billets.
Happy South Australians ivho don’t know
much about the inside of law courts have been
puzzling how the thing’s done. Day after day
two big civil cases have been dragging through
two different Courts at the same time; yet the
senior on each side in the one case, as well as the
best known of the juniors, have been counsel in
the other case, too, and so far as one could tell
from the reports, have been battling all the time
before each Judge. Into the bargain the seniors
are supposed to be battling in the Senate, where
one of them leads a party.
* * * *
Gov. Rawson, according to politico-social
etiquette, presented levee cards of private entree
to no less than 42 N.S.W. ex-Ministers of the
Crown. The pasteboards included such relics as
E. A. Baker and A. A. Tighe.
The annual N.S.W. “ vaccination re-
turns” make some curious disclosures. In 1900
(it takes a long while to compile these figures)
37,146 babies came into N.S.W. otherwise than by
train and boat, and the Govt, officers blistered
only 908 of them. Some years mothers catch the
habit much worse than in others. In ’92 there
was one Govt, vaccination to every 10 births ; in
’97 there was less than two-thirds of one to every
100. Some climates also seem to predispose the
infant to getting vaccinated. Only seven came
up to the scratch in Newcastle in the year, com-
pared with 248 in Mudgee and 412 in Bathurst.
• • • •
Sydney Labor Council has resolved that
the wife of a man earning £l7O annually must not
be employed by the State. Probably that will,
when properly threshed out, come to mean that a
woman whose husband earns that or some similar
sum yearly must not be employed for wages by
anyone. A right principle in a crude state is
wrapped up in the resolution. But, on the
threshold, it meets the difficulty of the common
social position in which the wife is a higher
earner than the husband. Many schoolmistresses
and shopwomen and actresses and musicians make
£l7O or over, while their husbands make little. If
the husband’s £l7O is to doom the wife to abstin-
ence from paid work, the wife’s £l7O must be
allowed to have the same effect on the husband.
* * * •
There are still in Australia a few un-
sophisticated souls. An aged couple who left
their backblocks home to see the Melbourne
“celebrations,” ere retiring for the night at a
Collins-street Coffee Palace carefully blew out the
gas. They were found in the morning just in
time to save them slipping over the Border, by
what must be one of the easiest paths imaginable.
Sixteen years ago a S. Aus. court took the
management of a big estate out of the hands of
its owner, who had, to the regret of troops of
friends, broken down mentally under the strain
of a £160,000 mortgage. The patient has been
steadily recovering ; how far the recovery has
gone was, however, questioned (though nothing
was frankly disputed) when lately he applied to
resume control. The estate is a valuable one
again; the “committee,” Angas Johnson, who died
a few months ago, having worked the debt-
burden back to £24,000. In the interest of the
owner’s family, it was, therefore, necessary to
make sure that the man is rational and capable
of doing business. The jury, consisting of
ordinary lay persons, was sure that it
could make up its mind about that if it had an
hour or so with the man. But the Law, which
isn’t an ordinary lay person, was appalled by the
suggestion ; its wig blanched in horror of such a
thing. Why, the man was, in its eyes, insane—
even though he had been one of the honorary
committee of experts which lately went up and
down the State selecting and buying horses
for the Bushmen’s Contingent! And, being
insane, he couldn’t give evidence, of course. So
the jury sat back to listen with what patience it
could to a dozen doctors, and 20 people who had
talked to him about the weather and the crops
and the next Cup, and 50 who had tried
to sell him some cattle for a little more than they
were worth, and couldn’t; and after it was all
over, and the questioning counsel had pin-pricked
the evidence, the jury wasn’t half so sure as it
would have been if it could have had the longed-
for hour with the man over whom all the days and
weeks of argument were spilled. But, as The
Bulletin said a few minutes ago, it is a valuable
estate again—or was valuable up to a month or so
back.
• •* * *
A Melbourne house-breaker, being dis-
covered, raised the window and jumped 14ft.—
right on top of a passing constable. Australia
averages one policeman to every 390,000 acres, and
this burglar fell on him at the first attempt. The
luck of it! It was like falling into the Vatican and
landing right on Parson Dill Macky.
* * * *
The sea-serpent has been seen again on
the Australian coast. Says the account: —
It resembled the serpent seen on board the Princess,
illustrated in the Strand Magazine, the only visible
difference being the fins, which seemed more angular
than those in the Magazine.
This habit of reading mags, must be guarded
against. The quality of a man’s reading is almost
as important as the quality of his drinking. Also,
how is it in these days of almost-universal photo-
graphy, that no one who sees the sea-serpent ever
has his kodak handy ?
A SAD THING.
PERCY: “ Whatevah is the mattah, Hawold, you
look positively Invoke u p? ”
H AROLD: “ Yaas, Persay, I am. Pm in such a
beastly pwedicament; I've left my stick at the
club.”
LOVE’S BRIEF DAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The mist and the dawn met
On the shores of the isles of the heart;
Grey mist of doubt, a-wet
With warm tears wherein joy had a part.
Dawn was a blush-rose red—
The red dawn of a love that was new ;
And the morning mist fled
Till a clear noonday came to us two.
Now ’tis eve on the isle,
The twin-isle of our hearts. The sun sets
Wan and far, all the while
Creeps up greyly the mist of regrets.
PROSPECT GOOD.
HIDDEN CHARMS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When woman wore a trailing skirt
And hid her feet from view,
Bad man, eternally alert,
Could scarcely sight a shoe,
And felt the joy of twenty imps
And fifty cherubim,
To catch one captivating glimpse
Of ankles neat and trim.
Now woman wears a shorter skirt
When walking in the street
To dodge the microbe in the dirt
And show her dainty feet;
In vain the ankles that she flaunts
For admiration beg,
Bad man admires them not —he wants
To sight a shapely leg.
If woman went without attire
Like Eve before the fall,
Bad man would soon have no desire
To view her charms at all.
But well she knows her surest charms
To further Love's appeals
And lure a lover to her arms
Are those that she conceals.
JAMES SAYERS.


you like Coffee^^W^
Perfect, Pure,
f Fragrant, Exhilarating Coffee
W Then Try
T>H. SIHITH’S
Cold
Medal
Coffee Essence
THE VERY BEST
Australian Representatives:
SWIFT & COMPANY,
V 7 SPRING STREET, y
SYDNEY.
ETTCS"
§ty lisK
Are the Ideal Fabrics
for
RAINCOATS.
FACILE PRINCEPS
SEMPER IDEM
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
P.D. Corsets}
Latest Specialty, Straight Front, Erect Form
{ P.D. Corsets
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, July 15, 1902.
My Dear Arini.—
The passion of procession, the deep-seated long-
ing in most human breasts to see a Someone ride
by, with men attired as for war marching fore and
aft, the charm of trumpet-blares, bayonet-gleams,
big horses and sabres clanking against spurred
heels—these things brought Sydney loungers
together by thousands last Friday when the Com-
monwealth’s first Governor-General went hence.
These things caused a congestion of shippers and
merchants and stock-brokers at the Exchange,
and brought out the clerks who bloom after four
o’clock, and beguiled the suburban housewife from
the preparation of hereveningpottage, and detained
in town the girl who comes five miles to post a
letter in the G.P.O. These things are little
things, but, on the authority of the late Brunton
Stephens, the virtuous derive pleasure from
trifles —“little things minister pleasure, as ever
it is with the good.”
It was a very quiet going-off. There were not
many bayonets or horses, and the trumpet didn’t
swell much. At the Hopetoun farewell levee
there was just about one-fifth the crowd that
surged and rolled over itself at the State Ex.’s
function a week earlier. You see, one was a de-
parting, the other an arriving guest. The crowd
that stopped away from the one levee and
swamped the other has a very lively sense of the
meaning of gratitude—favors and champagne to
come.
On the platform the Rawsons bade the Hope-
toun good-bye. Lady and Miss, coated and
furred, drew back from the express windows,
making great efforts not to let fall tears —and fail-
ing. To the men in charge of the police and lancer
escort Lord Hopetoun said a few special words of
thanks and farewell. The Highlanders looked as
though they would never again take joy in the
skirl of a bagpipe. A day or so previously
the Highland Society had presented Adrian
Louis with an address in blue and violet
calf, with a margin of royal Stuart tartan, a
small grove of Souter’s decorative’gum-trees inside,
and a scroll quoting Burns: “Better lo’ed ye
canna be, Will ye no come back again ? ” The
simple pathetic, much-in-little of those two lines
brings often the tribute of tears to ’een of the Scots-
man who gets them in a farewell address. And
the Gov.-General paid his tribute.
Mr. Arthur Mason’s organ recital, equally with
the desire to get good places from which to watch
the processions, crowded the galleries of Sydney
Town Hall before 7 o’clock on the night of the
annual Masonic ball. Batiste’s exquisite “Com-
munion in G” was one of the numbers. A
Masonic ball, or a Hibernian ball, is a curious
spectacle. I’d like to hear Mr. Dooley to
Mr. Hennessey on Masons and Hibernians,
their aprons and sashes and chains and property
swords. Before the Masons arrived, one read the
order of their coming with a kind of awe—the
phrases were so fine : “Grand Chapters,” “The
Arch of Steel,” “Knights of the Red Cross.” It
suggested a time “Or ever the knightly years
were fled with the old world to the grave, ” not a
twentieth-century frisk with the Gov.-General
marching under the clicking swords. Lord Hope-
toun brought in Mrs. J. C. Remington, wife of
the Grand Master, a graceful-looking woman, all
in black and scintillating. With her he
danced in the Masonic Lancers. Lady Rawson, in
heliotrope nearly covered with a diagonal arrange-
ment of lace, and the Gov.-Gen. conversed most
of the time. He took to her amiable State Ex.
from the first with great enthusiasm. Miss
Rawson’s pale green dress, with shavings of black
velvet-ribbon, was pretty and simple as Mary’s
little lamb. The vice-regal daughter is very fond
of da.ncing, and her waltzing is as light as a com-
bination of ping-pong, ball and thistledown. She
and General Finn tried several waltzes, but the
soldier’s strategy was not equal to stampeding a
route for himself and his partner in the thousand-
strong crowd. The N.S.W. Premier’s wife, all
black, and her all-pink daughter, made a good
appearance.
The Cranbrook rulers have had a busy week,
and many nights out. On Saturday His Ex. and
Miss Rawson attended the third Dani concert.
There was an immense audience, although in the
evening papers Mr. Fortey apologised for the
non-appearance of Madame Slapoffski, who is ill
of laryngitis in Melbourne. By the way, Florence
Young is laid up in the same capital with pneu-
monia. Miss Julia Davies, secured at such short
notice to fill a programme gap, was very nervous
in her singing of the “Alleluia” from Le Cid,
but both herself and her voice pleased the
audience and she was recalled. His Ex. and
staff seemed to appreciate Rivers Allpress’s
violin as well as anything on the programme.
Max Schliiter, the 'Danish violinist, came in
with Lawrence Phillip and “ Zou Zou ” Fried-
lander. Max was adorned in a heavily-furred coat.
That coat “fetched” the audience; it suggested
long wastes ribbed with snow and wolves howling
behind the galloping horses and sleigh.
Mr. Consul Orlando Baker is to Australian eyes
the most unrepresentative American that ever
represented that mighty republic in any place
more important titan the Kermadecs. His in-
tellectual culture is, I believe, unchallengeable,
but of the provincial type. When Consul Orlando
(what a bitter disappointment he must be
to the mother who gave him that romantic name !)
vacated a professorial chair in his University
his daughter dropped into it, but the family
doesn’t seem to have a single eagle-quill about
them. They don’t suggest the spread-eagle as
much as the drab hen, and one suspects them of
Hot knowing by heart the immortal Declaration.
In a recent speech of the Consul’s, at a North
Shore (Syd.) church, it was made clear that Consul
Orlando severely disapproves of tobacco, “which
is the worst form of dirt.” Yet his country makes
millions yearly by supplying the world with this
form of dirt. One named Orlando must, if he be
not a wrestler or given to ring-barking trees with
love-verses, have some redeeming little vice, even
if it be only tea and psalms and intoxicated
eloquence. Orlando’s speech smacks much of the
last.
A mention in the daily press of the unveiling of
a monument to the late Mr. Charles O’Neill, C.E.
by the members of an R.C. charitable society, wilj
recall to most persons who were much about thi s
city some two years ago, the quaintly-patheti c
spectacle of the two old O’Neill brothers in their
shabby, well-brushed clothes and napless top-hats.
They lived, I am told, in the neighborhood of
a R.C. fane, and never missed the early morning
services of their church, and often trotted along
the streets hand in hand. Many years ago
the late Charles O’Neill was resident en-
gineer of the province of Auckland (M.L.),
and his brother was in the Civil Service. They
were Highland Scots, never married, and drifted
to Sydney, where of late years the R.C. Church
people gave them a stipend. The elder brother,
who inaugurated the St. Vincent de Paul Society
here and in M.L., died two years ago at the age
of 74. The other brother, who was two years
younger, quickly followed.
Wyatt Rawson, his State Ex.’s 15-year-old son,
evidently only came out to have a look at Sydney
and take innumerable kodak-snaps, for he leaves
presently by the Oceana, with a view to entering
the British navy. No chance of mistaking him
for a Cornstalk, for his shoulders are nearly as
broad and set as his father’s, and he has a ruddy
English face.
A motley, mosaic scene at Sydney Town Hall
on Monday night, when the Children’s Fancy
Dress Ball, in aid of the Civil Ambulance, was
held. Napoleon, two feet high, was there, and a
penguin, much higher than Napoleon. Home
Rule took his prize from the lady vice-regal hand,
and was too nervous to lift his caubeen. A top-
hat would suit Home Rule better than a caubeen
these days. Inevitable Robinson Crusoe, with a
green parrot on his shoulder, had in tow a 26-inch
high Friday. “The Staff of Life” was the
unique character of the night: what was at first
sight a sheaf of wheat on two tiny feet toddled up
to their Exes, who gave it a prize and pinched its
chin. It was such a sweet-smelling bundle
of wheat, too, the real grain in the ear. Gov.
and Lady Rawson seemed to enjoy themselves
presenting the prizes and patting the infantile
cheeks. Adults who competed did not figure
much on the prize list. Two splendid dresses,
representing, respectively, The Bulletin and
Sandeman’s Wine were worn by grown-ups. The
first was a white Duchess satin, on which the
paper, with cartoons, was printed. Sandeman’s
wine-frock was a beautiful Bacchante gown, hand-
painted with grapes, vines, little bottles and trade
marks. It took a prize.
Max Schliiter opened at the Centenary Hall,
York-st., on Monday night, to an intensely musi-
oal audience, heavily Consul’d and Danishly-
flagged. I wouldn’t be surprised if Schliiter
became a cult, like Kubelik. His genius, modest
bearing, and his hair! There is such a lot of it that
he can afford to be generous with love-locks ; he
doesn’t wear it in a sunburst, like Paderewski,
but in a duck’s tail, like his master, Joachim.
And his head and face slip naturally into the
gallery of music-makers who are in marble bust
form on pedestals in Paling’s and Nicholson’s.
His violin is a Della Costa, dated 1741, and when
he plays Mendelssohn, Chopin, Bach—romanzes
and songs of love and grief and dances, it yields,
under his touch, the music that the dead-
and-gone have played into it. And yet
the Danish violinist hasn’t been heralded by a
hurricane of European criticism and advertise-
ment. Mrs. Gilbert Wilson, her handsome pre-
sence beautifully gowned in black with roses on
her left shoulder, and her still fine voice, got a
flattering reception. The only Sykes—“ the best
I ever had ” accompanist—was at the piano.
Miss Nora Long, a M.L. soprano girl, tall, thin,
eighteen, with an artistic temperament obvious as
her dimples (so strange to see a thin girl dimpled)
appeared at Newbury’s Pop last week and
the audience took her to its collective heart,
for it liked her manner and her sweet young
voice. At the same time its collective
heart ached for this and other young singers.
There are so many of them ; so many voices
of sweetness and promise. And there is the pos-
sible tragedy of non-fulfillment of promise. O,
Melba and Crossley, for what is not your success
responsible ? If Providence only knew Its busi-
ness better and would send a nice man able and
willing to love and cherish sweet sopranos (bother
the ‘ ‘ promise ”) and contraltos !
If the British Govt, proposes to send out as
Gov.-General a plain Mister I hope Mr. Harry
M'Calmont will take the billet. At the same
time, if a reasonably eligible person who is just
plain Mr. Brown, front name Jabez or Samuel,
could be discovered, I would prefer him to Mr.
M'Calmont, provided he had an equal num-
ber of millions. It would give us such a
healthy shock to have a Gov.-General named
Mr. Jabez Brown or Mr. John Jones. With
one or two very far-back exceptions, the Gover-
nors who have come this way have sported
some kind of a handle, and have ranged
from a bad-tempered sea-captain up to a marquis.
A plain Brown and his wife and daughter Sarah
at Govt. House would be like a refreshing breeze
blowing over Darling Point.
Mrs. (Dr.) Arthur, of Mosman (Sydney), and
Mrs. Curlewis (Ethel Turner) are on the judging
committee of the Juvenile Historical Ball to be
held at Balmain Town Hall, in aid of the hospital,
this Thursday evening. On, Tuesday, next, at
Sydney Town Hall, the 36th annual ball in aid of
the funds of St. Vincent’s Hospital will take
place. The State Gov. and suite will be present,
and a number of fancy sets are being arranged.
A very swell Jewish wedding last week was
that of Reginald, son of Mr. Alex. Marks, the
Vic. Consul for Japan, to Irene, a daughter of
George Cohen, of Elizabeth Bay, Sydney. The
lace on the bride’s court train had been on the
wedding garment of her mother and grand-mother.
Two bright pieces of dance music to hand
from Messrs. Paling and Co., the “Transvaal
Schottische,” by Chas. C. Wallings (dedicated to
Miss Kathleen Fitzgerald) and the “Ping Pong
Schottische,” by Miss Annie Jones.
My Brisbane correspondent writes :
“So unusual a concurrence of events as a new
Parliament and a new Governor invested the last
opening of the home of talk with special interest.
Tuesday was devoted to the ‘ swearing-in of
neophytes. On Wednesday Society attended en
masse, but even well-dressed women felt their
millinery-satisfaction fade in view of Gov. Cherm-
side’s brilliant scarlet uniform and cocked hat,
Hugh Nelson’s 150-guinea embroidered P.C. coat,
and dear little A.D.C. Harman’s medalled uniform.
Miss Webb (Lady Chermside’s ‘ new-clium ’ sister,
and present Society locum tenens) appeared in a
plain black, with old-fashioned fixings; Mrs.
Philp (the Premier’s wife) swathed her pretty,
youthful figure in a grand-motherly ‘dolman’
cape, watteau-pleated. The atmosphere was
heavy. The foreshadowed prospects of increased
taxation so flattened the fashionable multitude
that the strains of the ‘National Anthem’ were
half completed before they joined in. It was hard
to be loyal with the bogey of the tax-collector
threatening.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ The Governor Clarkes are really growing on
Sassiety in a surprising way. They do things so
nicely, don’t you know. Cap. Browning rings
Miss Somebody up, presents compliments from
‘ Stonington,’ asks if she is free that afternoon.
She is. Then will she and her mother come and
take afternoon tea with Miss Clarke ? So
delighted. Yes, they are to bring music. Mother
and daughter arrive at ‘ Stonington,’find Pa and
Ma Clarke and Missee Clarke (with the two Caps,
in the background) round the fire in the drawing-
room, taking tea and muffins. The visitors are
drawn into the fold and all make merry. Then
music-rolls are unearthed, and tender tootles are
indulged in. The favorite accompanist at
‘ Stonington ’ is the meek and mild daughter of a
fashionable draper.
“ The four branches of the Madden family have
been observing a three months bereavement term
for the honored grand-parent—the late John
Madden. At Flemington races the funeral pro-
cession of the five black-robed Frank Maddens
was a Pluto-like pall over the tinselled and varie-
gated gathering. The Waxellency’s family
eschew all outings, and take their mourning
period out at home. Of late the beauteous Ruby
has been driving herself to town in a baby cart
drawn by a pony about the size of a St. Bernard
dog, to do her morning shopping. Gravity and
restfulness are dangerous to the plump.
“Steeplechase-day at Flemington saw fresh
frocks, many fresh faces, and a final rally of
sporting clans. The sudden appearance of the
‘ Cloyne ’ Maddens on the Terrace caused a mild
sensation. Yes-No Reid took the beauteous Miss
Ruby Madden in tow, and changed her grave,
unduly dignified sonata countenance to a
tarantelle of dimples and smiles. General
Hutton’s dame was forward with a Spring hat—
‘ fresh off the ice.’ It was a little millinery curio,
in cool, green straw with frosty white flowers
(smaller than daisies) massed closely over the
rolled brim and part of the crown. A cluster of
Geelong dames headed the cake-walkers of the
Terrace. Curiously enough, all wore black with
twine laces, save Mrs. W. Manifold, whose chubby
person gained points by an extra-smart putty-
colored frock with violet mountings. Mrs.
Arthur Moule struck a happy thought when she
elected to try vivid cornflower effects on the
chiffon world. The intense blue rig-out gave the
large, handsome dame a good place on the Terrace.
Mrs. D. M‘Caughey sported a burnt-sienna frock,
and dashed across the lawn with unusual energy
when she spotted the football figure of the Leader
of the Opposition.
“ An approved frock of that Flemington meet-
ing was owned by Mrs. T. Patterson—one of the
Melba clan. It was the latest from Paris —a
Gothic brick-red cloth, cut into grand curves
about the hips and their vicinity. Strapped
seams gave these lines full effect. A hat showing
something of the same brick-red suggestiveness,
and draped in fantastic laces, was also novel. The
most startling rig-out of the day was a black-jetted
gown, sparkling like fresh tar, except about the
deep yoke, where its transparent quality showed
up dull on the cold blue ground of the wearer’s
chest. It was the only fresh-air yoke of the
meeting. Two ex-chorus charmers from Her
Majesty’s bestrode the lawn in the style of the
military woman’s stage strut. One—now a Dives’
wife—sported cream serge of wondrous build and
hang. T’other was a tailor-made figure in blue,
her neck walled by a high, hard linen collar.
“ A small knot of admirers waved Grace Palotta
away from Port Melbourne pier last Tuesday.
Grace wept & la Hopetoun—the drops of parting
sorrow coursing down the wonderfully fresh
cheeks in an unrestrained and copious flow.
When the decks were cleared of casuals Grace
skipped to the ship’s side and scattered her
tears and her flowers on the yearning faces up-
turned to her. Then she threw the empty
basket, and her friends jumped for it, tore the
straw to pieces and divided the bits. Melbourne
found the Palotta grateful for its worship. She
was garbed smartly in grey and black papery
cloth and a chic soup-plate hat.
“ Recently stated (by a learned professor at a
club dinner) that the quiet little town of Geelong,
hitherto a place of no attractions for the giddy
Melbourne girl, has achieved the brilliant record
of 129 marriages in about two months, ‘ the happy
brides being Geelong natives in almost every case.’
If the learned prof, was quite correct in his
figures, the old-established prosperity of Victoria’s
first capital town must be assuming bloated pro-
portions in comparison with other districts, where
the girls are growing grey and bony before their
time for want of matrimonial prospects. The
Geelong girl, as a rule, has a pious father,
who can make it worth a Melbourne man’s
while to take on the contract, or even if the
Melb. man is only a half-hearted woer at
first he must soon succumb to circumstances. He
begins by taking a run down to peaceful Geelong
on _ Saturday afternoon, and catching the last
train back to town. Then he gets persuaded to
prolong his visits over the Sunday, and return to
business by early train on Monday morning. And
then he is practically Lost. A Sunday at Geelong
means an introduction to at least one parson and
half-a-dozen Sunday-school teachers. The parson
invariably assumes, in a convincing tone, that his
dear young friend from Melbourne will—er —one
day be needing his services at the little tabernacle,
whereupon the six Sunday-school teachers giggle
and Bertha doesn’t know which way to look, and
the Melbournite feels himself ‘ engaged ’ on the
spot. The ways of the godly are precious artful.
“The ‘Violet Ball,’ on Friday night (July
12th), made a bright picture with its crimson-
shaded lamps, lily-wreathed platform, and ‘ fancy-
sets.’ The Governor Clarkes toiled bravely at
‘ State Lancers ’ and other vice-regal graft, though
Lady Clarke looked taller, frailer, and duskier
than ever in a rather stiff, springed-in lilac gown,
and the daughter has just recovered from a
touch of pleurisy. Miss Clarke wore a not-
extra-becoming frock of brightish blue, but
seemed, as usual, a gentle, cheery little thing.
In the military set, Mr. Henry Harper in kilts,
aired a pair of the slimmest props seen in public for
some time. Miss Muriel Williams made the same
mistake as many another young and blooming belle
—wearing powder and patches. Yesterday’s rosea
are well-advised in painting their petals, butwhat’a
the good of being a blossom of to-day in wig and
mask, so to speak ? Miss Williams’ hugely sub-
stantial coiffure (iron-grey, not white) would have
turned Mary Stuart herself into an Anne of
Cleves. Mrs. Percy Chimside, in poudre-white
satin and diamonds, looked very young to be the
mother of a sturdy, kilted urchin, and, for once,
seemed more to the fore than ‘ Mrs. George ’ of
the same clan, who wore quiet, but elegant, gauzy
black over silk, with long, purple sash and posy of
violets and mauve-and-gold orchids. The quaintest
spectacle on view was provided by the sensational
frocker whose mission in life is to give theatrical
first-nighters something to stare at. At the ball
she sported, frankly as possible, two enormous
Anglo-Saxon coiffure-horns of auburn detached
hair, while her escort had palpably crimoed his
thatch with curling-tongs.
“At the Gerardy reception, at Menzies’, last
Tuesday, la belle Americaine, Electa Gifford, did
the honors in the drollest of Yank, fashions, whilst
Jean, the hazel-eyed, stood afar off with that
placid, most serene air of his. Electa (it should
be Electra) was really the starred orbit of the day.
She wore the typical Yankee reception frock of
this season—black-and-silver-spangled, collarless,
fresh-air yoke, elbow-sleeves and black undressed
gloves to meet the junction. Her dark hair was
massed forward on the brow, in the manner of the
‘ Regent dip,’ and an Electra kind of bow flanked
the left side.
“The few women present, finding the sweet-
souled Gerardy hedged in by one or two eager
males, turned their attention to Gottfried Galt-
ston. But this nice, stiff-haired youth is able to
do little more than Yes-No in Eengleesh, and had
to bring an interpreter in tow to pass along and
return the pretty speeches. The Smythes, phre
andj His, were there, and R.S., who doesn’t seem
to travel so much nowadays, started negotiations
with Miss Olive Kingston for a singing tour, and
she is willing. Prof. Peterson, looking very much
the Scottish dominie, keenly felt the absence of
his tactful wife, and cut his visit short. Both
Peterson and Pinschoff are, when without their
better-halves, like rudderless vessels.
“ Anything more startling than Miss Electa
Gifford’s debut on the Melbourne platform, at the
Gerardy premiere, could hardly be imagined. She
cake-walked in, her hands extended palm down,
and her body bending from side to side in see-
saw fashion. She was as beautiful as a moonlight
winter scene. Her wonderful gown had vandyked
alternatives of rose garlands and black illuminating
ridges. These circled the skirt, giving the width
which the newest brand of American girl ever
aims at. The top-storey was made up of laces,
black chiffon and red roses on the dark floral
ground of the material. A cerise knot relieved
the brown mass of hair. An encore was listened
to as in a dream, while the audience watched
the soprano’s queer capers on the plat-
form. It was a coquettish morsel —something
about the unwilling lover going hang and to
Jericho if he loved her not. But the great genu-
flections, the prancing about like a trooper’s
steed, the knee-bendings, with hands meeting
over the bosom, the bird-like inclinations of the
head, set the audience into convulsions.
“On the platform Gerardy presents a strange
figure with the awkward instrument between his
knees, his head falling over the handle. The long
locks of hair becomes a nuisance almost; you
notice as he comes back for each fresh number that
the brilliantined brush has been applied and every
hair urged back to its appointed place. But in
the thunder and lightning and tempest of his
music, Gerardy’s head is set into motion, and the
long, troublesome locks find their way over the
strings again.
“ The small audience at the first Gerardy con-
cert was a very ‘swagger’ one. Mrs. Robert
Power had one important party in the front seats.
Nicest brace of beauties in the hall were the two
daughters of Mrs. Dunne, and sisters of the
dreamy-eyed, languishing Mrs. Ullathorne.
Sassiety says there is a strong resemblance
between these soft-featured, brown-eyed girls and
Miss ‘ Stonington ’ Clarke, but the Governor’s
daughter has none of their brunette richness of
color nor bright sparkle of eyes.
“Nothing can exceed the style of a certain
newly-ennobbled pair. They now send letters in
the third person and style themselves ‘ the Hon.
Sir Blank and Lady X.’—don’t you know.
“ The sequel to one of this season’s divorces is
the approaching knot-tying of the freed sinner
and the lady that came between. The affair is
fixed for the last week of August, when this
Claudis makes the dazzler ‘fast his wife.’
(Continued on page SO.)
A graceful form and well moulded bust
are essential to perfect beauty. LacU, the
wonderful “Skin Food” is nature’s remedy for
giving back those essentials when lost 'through
sickness or action of time, and for supplying them
when constitutionally deficient. It fills all hollows,
develops and gives a charming roundness to neck
and arms. Price 7s. 6d. per jar, post Bs. 3d.
Westall Guest, Toilet Specialist to the Gov.*
General, 229 Bourke-street, Melbourne.


CITIZENS’ LIFE assurance go., Ltd.
Has Money to Lend
on security of Freehold City or Suburban
Properties, Good Dairy Farms, Agricultural
and Grazing Lands (Freehold or C.P. & C.L.)
or Government Stock of any of the Australian States or New Zealand,
At the Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Loans may be arranged for a fixed term or repayable by Instalments, without notice or
payment of any fine.
Next to the Insurance fiend ranks the
Typewriter man for cast iron nerve and per-
severance. A man lias only to breathe that he is
going in for a machine when the salesmen swarm
round him like flies over beef. Brown will tell
him that a machine printing with a shift for
capital letters is only used by persons with weak
intellects, and that if he buys a double keyboard
instrument his troubles are for ever at rest.
Smith, however, scoffs at the double keyboard
notion and prophesies disaster of the most awful
description to the unlucky possessor. Then up
comes Green with a pad machine and anathema-
tizes all machines printing from a ribbon. The
bewildered buyer, driven to distraction, curses each
and all. The safe and comfortable course is to deal
with a house offering a variety of each principle ;
and anxious to give the buyer the type of machine
best suited to his special wants. The United
Typewriter and Supplies Co. of Sydney,
Melbourne and Perth sells the Yost, New Century
and Densmore, shift key, double keyboard and
pad machine, and they give their advice free, and
also a free trial of each kind of machine.*
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Hotel Cecil
& Restaurant
Largest and most magnificent Hotel in Europe.
Overlooking- the picturesque Embankment Gardens and river.
LONDON.
Moderate Charges:
Bedrooms, li"ht and attendance included, from6s. per day. Breakfast, from 25.;
lunch, 3s. Gd.; dinner, Gs. Suites, ensuring absolute privacy, from 245. per day.
Telegraphic Address: CECELIA, LONDON.
A. JUDAH, Manager.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
More Friday luck. The Coronation pro-
cession was to have taken place on a Friday.
Reid’s chief reason for suggesting Hope-
toun for the High Commissionership was probably
to dish his old enemy, B. R. Wise.
N.S. Wales saves a £l5O ecclesiastical pen-
sion by the death of that kindly old Presbyterian
parson, Dr. White, of Singleton. The number of
State-aided ministers is now very few.
As the late Dr. Watts would say, somd of
the Freetrade Senators “fall out and chide and
fight ” among themselves. One Senator, t’other
night, offered to punch another “brother.”
Australian Premiers and ex-Premiers, pre-
sented with LL.D.’s regardless of intellectual
status or scholastic acquirements, should remember
! he terms in which Thomas Carlyle rejected such
n piece of University emptiness.
Hundreds of Melbourne boys lost a friend
in just-deceased C. D. Barber, manager of the Try
Excelsior Society, who had devoted his life to the
interests of poor lads ever since he retired from
pastoral pursuits and sold his station “Con-
suelo ” (Q.).
“P.X.” Won’t “ Gouli-Gouli ” allow us
S. Australians to see Mortimer Menpes in her list
of Australians who are doing all right the other
side? Having nothing much else to mention, we
mention Menpes (who stayed with us till he was
19) all we can.
Victoria’s long-lived and useful official, the
late Agent-General Andrew Clarke, leaves £35,000
odd to represent 55 years’ service, direct and in-
direct, in connection with Australia. He arrived
in 1847 as private secretary to Thomas Denison,
then Governor of Tasmania.
JACK WANT: AN IMPRESSION.
London Daily Chronicle speaks of
Julian Salomons, and Josiah Symon as the two
leading Jews of Australia. And “Jos.” is so
proud of his Scotch birth and breeding, too ! It is
not his nose, but his “knows” which is so great
as to deceive the English journal.
Senator “Dick” O’Connor could have
had a K.C.M.G.-ship at Coronation time, but—
better advised than Premier Barton—-declined the
“honor.” Perhaps O’Connor remembered the
cruel fate of many titled politicians—perhaps
he saw himself herded up in the same pen as Zeal
and Sargood !
“ Steele Rudd,” the young author of that
phenomenally-successful Bulletin book, “On
Our Selection,” has been appointed Queensland
Under-Sheriff. Eleven thousand copies of “On
Our Selection ” have already been printed, and
the greater part of them sold—which is a record
for an Australian book at six shillings.
' The present Premiers of Australian States
are, in one respect, a mixed lot. Two—James and
Lewis—are Australian-born; Jenkins is American,
Irvine Irish, Philp Scotch, and See English.
Lewis and See are “ Sirs,” the rest plain Misters.
Their titles may come by-and-bye, and then how
beautiful will sound “ Sir John Jenkins ! ”
Westralia’s new Premier, the comely
Walter James, is the third Groper to have held that
position. The new Premier has one of the largest
legal practices in Perth. He is a most capable
speaker and skilled debater of the logical-lawyer
type. Mr. James is a stepson of old George
Randall, Bigjohn Forrest’s Colonial Secretary.
Dead at 79, Francis M‘Crae Cobham, 60
years ago squatter on what is now the dividing
line between N.S.W. and Vic. He fought
droughts, floods and bushrangers, winning all along
the line, but was financially knocked out by scab
in sheep; joined the police, rose to be superin-
tendent, resigned, became stock-inspector ; then
finis, f
—on July -10 three decisions on appeals
from the Victorian Full Court were given by the
Privy Council. All three were allowed, the ver-
dicts of the Vic. Judges being upset. Mr.
J ustice Hodges’ decision in two of the cases was
reversed by Vic. Full Court, and re-affirmed on
appeal by the Privy Council. The bloodless Mr.
Hodges is an excellent lawyer.
Little Chief Justice Way, of S.A,, who
has been severely repressed by force of circum-
stances during the last few years, will again
“bob up serenely ” now that Lord Tennyson is to
be acting-Governor-General. That adds a bitter-
ness to the practical departure of the Tennysons,
for the Ways are decidedly unpopular in Ade-
laide, and the silence of Sammy has been much
appreciated.
“John” is a “lucky” name in S.A.
Among politicians who have received knighthoods
have been John Morphett, John Colton, John
Bray, John Downer, John Stirling, John Bony-
thon and John Coekburn. The first Governor
(Hindmarsh) and the earliest Chief Justice (Jeff-
cott) were botji Johns, and so are the present
Premier, leader of .Opposition, President of the
Council, and leader of the Government in the
Upper House.
Gordon Coutts, a Melbourne artist, and
one of Australia’s strongest brush-men—-he it was
who painted “Too Late ” —is just now committed
on a charge of disobeying the Court’s order to con-
tribute towards the support of his wife. Coutts,
it would seem, was with another lady at the
time of his arrest in Maoriland, and is shown to
have drawn £716 at one fell swoop from the
Bank of N.S.W.
General Sir H. Chermside, Queensland’s
new Governor, will be 52 years old on the last
day of this month. His predecessor, Lord
Lamington (born 29th July, 1860), is almost
exactly ten years younger. Strange to say, Lord
Kintore and Lord Tennyson, the late and present
Governors of S.A., are precisely the same age,
one having been born on August 11, and the other
on August 12, 1852.
Brisbane Observer (Courier's evening
brother, which lives in the same office) recently
complimented Attorney-General Rutledge on his
accession to the dignity of knighthood. It was a
reward for statesmanlike ability, etc. Then
same journal congratulated Philp because he pre-
ferred to remain “ plain Bob, ” dla W. E. Glad-
stone. Philp (it was averred) had a soul above
the meretricious glitter of a bauble !
The chief result of G. H. Reid’s Freetrade
stump through Yic. provinces has been a feeling
of disappointment on the part of the local people
that G. H. has ceased wearing a monocle. Nearly
every district paper comments regretfully on the
fact that the Dry Dog Man is evidently trying to
discredit the cartoonists, and he is sharply re-
minded that a pince-nez, as an aid to the profes-
sional humorist, doesn’t approach the single eye-
glass.
Among the recent cables was an item to
the effect that ex-O.F. State President Steyn is
hopelessly paralysed —it is said as a result of
anxiety, -hardship and actual starvation dur-
ing the war. Of all the Boer patriots who
have suffered from Jingo-press calumny, to
Steyn is surely owed the greatest debt of
tardy justice. He has been called liar, traitor,
coward, would-be turn-coat; yet no man of
the Boers has vindicated himself better. He
has practically given his life for his principles.,
Attorney-General Gordon (S.A.) will be
52 years old on July 26. Two of his Ministerial
colleagues date their lives from 1850, which
was responsible also for the birth of ex-Premier
Kingston, ex-Premier Holder, and ex-Premier
Coekburn, all of whom have at different times
given office to “Johnny” Gordon. He is one of the
most popular men in the State, and he possesses a
“sweet reasonableness” which enables him to be
happy in any Ministerial combination, no matter
what may be the complexion of its political faith.
Dr. Moorhouse, nowadays Bishop of
Manchester, has been telling an English country
audience that when he was Bishop of Melbourne
and the local newspaper (the Age) lured him into
a controversial correspondence re Science and the
Soul, &c., he always soothed his feelings with a
pipe ere sitting down to write a letter to the
editor. Dr. Moorhouse was always a good cham-
pion of the pipe, and a reasonable apologist for
the bottle. Anyhow, he “ took a glass of wine at
his dinner,” in an episcopal way of speaking,
which probably meant two glasses. And at 76
years of age the bishop is still going strong.
In ultra-jingo Maoriland a man with a
Dutch or German name has been known to get a
bad time on that account solely. That is, doubt-
less, why Agent-General Reeves thus announced
the appointment of Govt, medical officer for
Rotorua Sanatorium by cable :
Have selected for appointment as balneologist Arthur
Stanley Wohlmann, M.D., London. Family—English of
200 years’ standing.
But how pitiable to think that an allegedly civi-
lised country and its officialdom could sink so
low !
N.S.W. Western Lands Commissioner,
Hugh Langwell, has been, so far, a lucky man.
Not many years ago, when “ Hughie ” was shear-
ing at Dunlop, on the Darling, he won 4 tidy sum
in “Tatt.’s” sweep, and sensibly bought into a
prosperous Bourke news-agency and tobacco busi-
ness. In ’9l he was returned Labor M.P. for
Bourke, but after a term settled down to trade
again. Three years ago he was appointed M.L.C.,
and now he’s on the Western Lands Commission
at £lOOO a year. “Hughie” has done much good
for the Western labor cause —and though almost
worshipped by the shearers is nevertheless very
popular with the pastoralists.
One Australian politician has a very handy
habit of ill-health. Whenever he begins to com-
plain about his health, cute members know that
there is some deep political move on. When he
remarks with pathos, “ I suppose the next thing
will be that I will be wheeled around in a peram-
bulator,” then a Ministry is going to fall. The
story is told that when he was asked by some con-
stituents how he felt on a very vexed question, he
professed absolute ignorance of tiie matter, and
pathetically asked what the movement was. “Do
you know,” he said, “my health has been so bad
lately that I have not dared to look at a newspaper
for the last three months.”
Arthur Pursell Akehurst, ex-Vic. Crown
Law secretary, who lately died in Melbourne,
used to be known among his underlings as “Old
Memorandum.” If he wished to ascertain any-
thing from a man, even in the next room, he wrote
a lengthy memorandum on the subject, and some
people in the Law Department attribute their
slow progress to the fact that they used to see
him personally instead of opening up a lengthy
correspondence with him. Akehurst even devoted
his time in trains and trams to the inditing of
interminable memos., and legend had it that if he
wanted a fresh log of wood for his fire at home he
made a formal request in writing to the domestic.
Some Federal politicians are convinced that
John Forrest will be Australian High Commis-
sioner in London. His cute wife has been work-
ing for it ever since Forrest became a Minister.
She has ten times the brains of her lumbering
husband ; and when she sets her mind to anything
in politics, she usually pulls it off in a canter,
but, this time, that mayn’t be so. From
the point of view of suitableness, Forrest is
the last man in Australia who should get the post.
He is madly Imperialistic, which means that he
is anti-Australian ; and the Commonwealth needs
a plucky Australian through and through in
London at the present time. It is the only hope
of keeping the Australian nation off its stomach.
The atmosphere of the Federal Parliament
(it has been noted at Adelaide) is exerting a
marked influence upon some of the S.A. Reps. :
Charley Kingston now is to be seen in a black broad-
cloth frock-coat with satin lapels, upon one. of which
reposes a bouquet, whilst on his head reposes a shiny
beaver. Gone are the familiar blackthorn stick, the
cheap felt hat, and the sac-suit of indifferent tweed.
Speaker Holder, too ! One looks in vain now for his gray-
green tweeds and his tawny terai. John Downer, who,
with an air of cussedness, used to stroll into the nearest
barber’s-shop behind a black cigar, modestly draped, now
bowls through Adelaide in his carriage, affecting a lounge
that would wither with envy the mind of a Governor-
General. S’Langdon Bonython, who was wont to giddily
tilt his hat backwards to show to advantage his Napoleonic
brow, now wears it square and level, tottering about
under a load of assumed gravity that promises to reduce
him to a total wreck.
George Reid’s reputation had preceded
him to Horsham (Vie.), and conspicuous in the
crowd that assembled to greet him was a very fat
woman, who, red and dishevelled, with bonnet
awry and brandishing a gamp wildly, fought her
why towards the man of the moment. George,
seeing the lady in distress, and recognising that
she wished to make some demonstration to the
greater glory of the owner of the Dry Dog, put
the crowd aside and gracefully made way for her.
The matron arrived, moist and panting, and seized
the hand of G. H: Reid, P.TI “Off, sir!” she
gasped, “you’re the man what cures fatness, aren’t
you ? I was determined to consult you if I died
for it ! ” In the coarse laughter that followed
George was unable to offer explanations, and
throughout his stay at Horsham his stout client
still pursued him.
David Syme is evidently displeased with
the Imperial powers about something, possibly
because there was not a baronetcy or a peerage
“in his ” this trip. One recent day he took much
space to show that Australia’s vice-royalty costs her
over £lOO,OOO a year, and is throwing at Age
readers’ heads the obvious inference that it isn’t
worth it. . But the same evening, as if in contri-
tion, David turned on the gas, and illuminated
his shop front with a blaze of glory, rejoicing in
three colors over the recovery of King Ned, a
whole day before the fair.
The reward of a keen pursuit of knowledge
in Australia. John Smyth, M.A. and doctor of
Philosophy, probably the most - travelled and
SENATOR HIGGS, OF
QUEENSLAND.
knowledgeable of
Maoriland edu-
cationalists, who
has studied his
subject at four
universities, and
spent 20 years
reaching out after
up-to-date me-
thods instead of
settling down to
humdrum and a
regular' salary,
has just been glad
of an appoint-
ment as principal
of the Victorian
training - college
at £587 a year.
One of Aus-
tralia’s “ repre-
sentative citi-
zens ” who didn’t
go to the Corona-
tion was hangman
at a State gaol
ere he started his
present business.
Yet, among his
host of employees,
he has the name
of being a good
—even generous
—employer.
The late Lady
Hodgson (sister
of the late N.S.
Wales District-
Court Judge
Dowli ng), a W 00l -
loomooloo native,
was, during her
residence in Eng-
land, Mayoress
of Stratford - on-
Avon on five dif-
ferent occasions.
Between 50 and
GO years ago she
was one bf the
best horsewomen
about Sydney,
and while she
lived on her hus-
band’s run on the
Darling Downs was the only white horsewoman
in that part of Queensland.
Premier Leake, lately deceased, was Big
John Forrest’s most hitter political opponent; in
answering any of the K. G.’s speeches Forrest
often lashed himself into white fury. In the old
Parliament, when the big man ruled as an auto-
crat, having the submissive support of “ the 22
blocks of Jarrah : (as Leake called the Ministerial
members) the Opposition consisted of Leake,
Illingworth, and G. T. Simpson, whose sarcasms
would so work up the present Federal Minister of
Defence that he often snorted explosively and
hurriedly left the Chamber. Outside politics,
Forrest and Leake were life-long friends. At a
banquet given to the Autocrat to celebrate his 25
THE THOUGHTS OF
YOUTH ARE LONG,
LONG THOUGHTS.
AUNTIE: “ Yes, Millie,
that was a lady who knew auntie when she
was a little girl.”
MILLIE: “And does she know you still, auntie?”
AUNTIE: “Of course she does, dear.”
MILLIE: “Oh, my! what a long memory she
must have !”
years of public service Leake proposed his health
in glowing terms, and told how, as a school-boy in
Adelaide, he exulted in witnessing the welcome
to his fellow-countryman, after Forrest’s adven-
turous exploring tramp over the great Australian
desert. “Forrest,” Leake added, “was then a
slim, travel-stained, hardy man of about lOst.”
Now, he weighs close on 2801bs.
That musty old Hobart book-dealer,
Legrand, died the other day at his gloomy shop,
and a Bulletin man sends some interesting matter
about him. The ancient, by the way, attributed
his fatal illness to having been chloroformed by a
burglar who robbed him of £4O, but this is set
down as a delusion, senile decay being generally
accepted as the cause of the veteran’s going off :
Obit : Legrand of Hobart, the last perfect specimen of
his typeon the Australias. In the province of second-
hand Legrand was book-buyer and book-seller ; but, first
and foremost always, book-lover. He bought books (sorry
rubbish sometimes) from mere lust of acquirement; he
sold grudgingly. He had read a little along some by-
paths ; but apart from that was of scant culture ; his
book-collection was ma nly Bibliomania. His age at
death the other day is recorded as “about 84”; but
“ about 100 ” would probably have been nearer the mark.
He came to Hobart, sometime within the last half-
century, an old man already. Of his family and early
history no one knows aught definite. There were few he
cared to talk to, and even when facing an approved
listener his reminiscences had a curiously impersonal
quality. Legrand, in the far, vague heyday of his youth,
had witnessed exploits and encountered notables. He
knew Baudelaire in the 40’s, and recalled him with
a shrug—“a miserable sort of devil with brains, and
a tendency to religion.” In the forties, indeed, Legrand
was much in Paris, and in some undiscovered capacity
came into contact with many lights of his time Janin,
Gautier, Arsfene Houssaye, Merim&e, Murger, and numbers
of the others. Quaintly enough, he remembered them
as bibliophiles and viveurs only. Legrand, it seems,
had been a sad enough dog in his time. Additional
proof that his golden time lay far back is given by
the fact that he met Lady Blessington while that vivacious
and various beauty was at the height of her charm.
Charles Lamb also he had known ; and to the end
he contended that Lamb’s disrepute in one
matter had been grossly exaggerated by the snobs
and prigs of all the later years. In short, Legrand
was a remarkable man, a man good to know in the midst
of this perverse and arid generation. He was a survival
of the days when men, greatly perfumed and be-ringed,
unanimously bore testimony to the nastiness of cold
water and the foolishness of over-ventilation. During his
Tasmanian decades Legrand, immured among his mostly-
rubbishy books, grew dingier and dingier. The dust of
the outer world crept in, and entering into undisturbed
partnership with the dust of heaped-up volumes in decay,
constantly intensified the dusky murk of the place. And
this same dust circled about Legrand and seasoned him,
being never disturbed by moisture from without. But
there was a shrewd and kindly old wayfarer beneath the
grime, a strayed reveller from the wider world, a lover of
light and a hater of the Philistines.


WEAK-SKSNTCD READERS^
Who are unable to read small printed matter, or to see fine
stitching or writing with comfort, whose distant vision is dull
and who suffer from persistent headaches or pains after close
application you may rest assured that vou are suffering frnm
Ag-eoig or Impaired Vision, and Need Glasses.” You
should visit us, and have your sight scientifically tested, and
be supplied with Glasses adapted to your individual case
'»if COUNTRY READERS who cannot visit us personally, we send, Post Free to any address will, • *-
tions and Price List, our niarvellously-accurate and popular SELF SICHT-MEASUDiNQ PATENT" r • I f truc '
you can Test your own sight and determine for yourself the style and quality of the glasses vou mav /J.rf USe
Write for it to— •' * “ eLU '
H. A. BARRAOLOUGH, Consulting 1 Optician,
371 George St., Sydney,
Andat232 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, opposite Age Office.
next door to the A. J.S. Bank
King- and George Streets.
WATSON’S WHISK Y.
DAVID STOKER & SONS
’ In Three Colors—BLACK, RED and BLUE
Registered
Trade
Mark.
Is the Only Absolutely
SAFE wooi-
Marking
Perfect Sheep-Marker BRANDING OIL.
Ke P* *>y all merchants
and STOREKEEPERS.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors.— ln the case of ethnological and
natural-history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific value.
“Itan”: N.S.W. Works Minister O’Sul-
livan prepares to establish irrigation farms in the
arid West, far removed from markets, while there
are nearly a million acres of the finest land in the
State lying between Guyra and South Grafton,
locked up for want of rail-communication to the
coast. It is estimated that the timber in the Don
Dorn go belt nearly 500,000 acres—is worth an
average of £7 per acre at the stump if there were
an outlet. If a railway were sanctioned through
this tract, at least 100,000 acres would auction
readily at £2 to £5 per acre (Is this money meant
to pay for the line, or is the line to be paid for out
of loans while the land-sale proceeds are fooled
away as usual?—Ed. 15.), and the balance could
bo quickly opened up with feeding-lines. The
class of people that would buy would have money
to spend in improvements, and they would take
on many of the unemployed. It has been proved
ere now that men without cash will not stick long
to the soil, and the chances are that directly State
ceases those spoon-fed people will quit.
O’Sullivan’s irrigation-farms may be somewhat
like Ins unemployed-farm on Bunnerong-road,
where they are trying to grow vegetables in pure
white sand, and each cabbage raised costs the
country about £l.
* • • *
Mr. Francis Bacon, of Dumble (N.S.W.)
Station, writing to S.M. ITkkapd on “Mitigation
of the effects of drought,” makes the surprising
statement that “Mr. James Fulton, manager of
Wonnamurra Station, near Jerilderie, lias not only
kept all the station sheep in good condition, with-
out loss, by tho use of fodder grown on the station,
but lias sold £4OOO worth of hay.” Mr. Bacon
strongly advocates the conservation of feed, either
wheaten hay, bush bay, orensilage in the good years
for use in the bad years which will surely follow,
and states that for 11 years past he has been able
to grow enough hay to feed his working horses,
lie suggests that every stock-ownor should expend
GO ON THE LAND, YOUNG MAN.
JIM: "Mornin, Dill ! I wuz jus’ cornin' ter tell yer that two o' yer
best team 'orses fell dozen the well an' got killed!"
B ILL: “ ’Struth! an’ I've 'urried from yer seleckshun ter let yer know that
yer 'umpy’s been burnt dozen, yer misses is sick, all yer bit o' hay
gone, an' fifty 'ead o’ yer best cattle is scorched up in the bush-fire."
a certain amount per annum in the good seasons
as an insurance against the poorer seasons, and
makes it obvious, on the whole, that stock-owners
could protect themselves against the effects of
drought to a much greater extent than they do.
* * * *
During these droughty times the dairy
farmers of N.S.W. north-coast are simply coining
money. Grass is plentiful in the Big Scrub coun-
try, and in the past six months Ballina has had
28 inches of rain. One man, owner of a herd of
30 cows, got 1719 gallons for 31 days, test 4’2,
equal to 8011 b. commercial butter, price paid
being 12|d. per lb. This was a return of £47
19s. 6d., or at the rate of £1 12s. per cow per
month. The month before his returns were even
better. Sixpence per lb. pays.
• * • »
“Rusty”: Re “ Tag” on irrigation (8.,
28/6/’O2), I, last year, worked on a station be-
tween Bourke and Wileannia, and chaff cost about
£8 per ton landed there. We irrigated 50 acres
of wheat (five days watering with a Gin. pump—
watered the crop three times). Return, 85 tons.
Big profit to station.
* * * •
“Banyenong”: The Noogoora burr, if
artificially treated, would probably be of much
use in a dry season. I have been told also that
any Australian thistle, cut seasonably and pressed
in a large bin, becomes excellent fodder. It is
merely the average cookie’s easy-going con-
servatism that restricts him for fodder to grass
and hay.
* * * *
Mudgee (N.S.W.) possesses a laboring man
who was, in times of plenty, in the habit of con-
suming 221 b. of beef per week. To keep up this
supply now would cost him 11s. per week for one
item of food.
“ Bobrid ” : The rabbit-industry is going
ahead in Junee (N.S.W.) district. Thousands of
bunnies are despatched daily per rail from the
local station, and one agent for a large canning-
factory pays as high as £BO per week to trappers.
On Erin Vale station three parties of trappers are
making a net profit of =£6 per week per man —as
good as being an M. P. and a lot more honest! The
necessity for well-paid boards and inspectors to
compel people to kill the rabbits will soon cease to
be apparent. Bunny is fast becoming a great
national asset. By the way, I asked some rabbit-
trappers why they didn’t send their rabbits direct
to Sydney, instead of selling locally at a small
figure. They said they had tried it and that,
though the first consignment paid well, the second
consignment, a large one, was never heard of
again, the agent having been repeatedly written
to in vain.
* * * •
Writes “ Murrumbidgee Whaler”:—
I can give you two or three instances of the untiring
perseverance and enterprise of squatters. The cases
mostly relate to big stations down here with big money
behind them. Groongal started to pump and irrigate in
a drought near 25 years ago. The grass came through
like wheat after rain. A chance drift of locusts came
along and ate it before the sheep could get a bite.
Groongal didn’t persevere any more. Burrabogie in ’B7
irrigated and cultivated a few hundred acres. August
rain that year made a crop of a ton to the acre, at least,
over 100,000 acres of the run, and the cultivation wasn’t
much wanted. That was enough for Burrabogie. Togan-
main went in blind and ignorant for canals and channels
over a line bit of frontage. The flood came down and
mossed it all up: “to the devil with irrigation!” said
Toganmain. These stations represent more than a
million acres of freehold, and, when stocked up, shear
fully a million sheep. And not one of them or their
neighbors has done a hand’s turn towards regrassing the
deserts the rabbits and drought have made, or replanting
the saltbush scrub and timber that have been eaten out
or lopped down to keep sheep and cattle alive. What can
you expect of the backblocks when inside men spoil the
country that way ?
» * * *
A cattle-duffer on the Upper Burnett (Q.)
bad a cow so trained that, when he wanted to
increase his stock, he drove her to the paddock or
herd ho had marked for spoil and loft her there.
The well-trained “coaohor” never returned alone
to him.
“Abanon”: Once
knew a station-mana-
ger whose main amuse-
ment was killing ants.
This he did systemati-
cally by crushing
them wherever they
swarmed, with a large
wooden beater like a
paviour’s rammer, ac-
companying each
bump of the beater
with picturesque
anathemas, lie also
had a pet carpet-
snake, which he kept
in the station store,
and used hugely to
enjoy the shock this
snake would give a
swagman on his dis-
covering the reptile
coiled up on the coun-
ter near his elbow.
Sometimes he would
casually remark that
he thought he saw a
snake just behind,
whereupon promptly
exit swagman. At
last, however, the
humorist “ fell in.”
One stranger, when
his attention was
quietly drawn to the
fact that there was a
snake just behind him,
instantly snatched off
one of his unlaced
bluchers and slew the
reptile at a blow. The
loss of his pet was put
down as the cause of
the manager’s death, from d.t’s., about six months
later. Too many snakes then.
* * * •
Surprising the lack of initiative on the part
of many Australians. Writer knows dozens of
bore-streams in W.Q. well adapted for irrigation
but totally unused. The other day a Chinaman
went round a West Q. town selling bundles of
green oats at a shilling a bundle—also really fine
potatoes—-all grown with bore water. The local
Europeans excused their idleness by saying that
bore water was totally unfit for irrigation.
* * • •
“ Silly-B.” ; “Bynna ” (B. 21/6/’O2) errs
in stating that the perishing of the indigenous
& e | S ™r? Ugh the drou o ht is ‘' a thing which in
JN.S.W. has never been known before.” In the
88 drought, on spurs of the Liverpool Range
overlooking Bowling Alley Point, on the Peel
River, acres and acres of these trees died. I
know of one long spur on which all the timber
perished. Trees are now also dying wholesale in
same district.
* * * *
BS. : Re rabbit-reduction. Wouldn't
it be as well to let bunny multiply undisturbed in
the same warrens till overcrowding, inbreeding
in sanitation, with consequent deterioration and
epidemic disease, got their work in ? Meanwhile
he could be wire-netted out of land worth it!
Weems to me that poisoning, trapping, etc., reduce
him just enough to keep him healthy and produc-
tive. Recently dug out 15 rabbits from a warren
not previously disturbed, and only two of them
were healthy ; all being puny.
* * * *
, nofce received by a way-
back N.S.W. chemist:—“l did not want glisorin
but vasiohne. Is that plain enough ? I hope you
can spell.
« w L p ” . Marvelous, during the past
five years, has been the social o,
the Hindu on the Richmond (N b.W.j
The dusky person who used to array him-
self in empty flour-bags and sleep in
outhouses would not be recognised
in the dark gentleman who no*
swaggers around in a tailor-
made suit, and who, in
most instances, sleeps un-
der the same roof as Ins
master. Around the
small township of
Clunes, in the “Big
Scrub,” the Hindu is
specially flourishing,
in every instance owning a
good horse, and in many cases
a sulky as well. Common now
to see one of the leading citi-
zens taking an airing in com-
pany with one of his farm-
hands, in the latter’s own
sulky. The local dearth of
young men eligible for sons-in-
iaw may have something to do
with the marked preference
shown to Hindus by heads of
families.
A wealthy Riverina
(N.S.W.) squatter, now gone to
the “great muster,” was noted
for his intermittent ejaculations
of “ D’ye see? d’ye see ? ” and also
for his stinginess to travellers. He
wouldn’t give rations ; and one
day some disappointed swaggies
set fire to his woolshed, and then
wrote on the gate : “We’ve damn
well burnt down your blanky shed,
d’ye see? d’ye see?” The big man
contemplated this for a moment, with
a sardonic grin, then scribbled under-
neath : “It was damn well insured, d’ye
see ? d’ye see ? ”
“T.J.G.”: To catch crows (“Young
5.,” B. 28/6/’O2), fix a number of twisted horsehair
snares (with loops about dia.) about a car-
case that crows have found. Numbers may be
thus caught, but no other material for snares will
serve, as crows are very wary. By the way, can
any Bulletin reader tell me how to rear young
pheasants, and what food to give ? Have never
succeeded in getting any to survive more than a
few weeks.
* * * *
“ Will J.” : Yic. Government has all along
been inviting drays to start on the Woomelang
line, and whole streets of them, at no little
expense, were trucked to the spot from all parts
of the State. Yet only half-a-day’s work (or three
days a week) was offered. Four brothers took 29
horses up, and dropped in one week what it had
taken them months of hard channelling to scratcli
in. Reform!
• * * *
The local (Maitland, N.S.W.) swamp is
dry tor was, before the recent rains), for
the first time in 60 years. In ’42 and ’43
the swamp-bed was cultivated, as also were parts
of the Hunter River bed. Other swamps on the
Lower Hunter are also dry, for the first time
within the memory of man. At one spot are
visible the tops of posts of fences which were
probably erected during the severe drought of the
’4o’s. The recently-dead Rev. Dr. White, by the
way, remembered the river at Singleton ceasing
to run for many months. Bad as things are at
present, they have not yet reached that stage.
* * • »
“Dan Vox” : At a recent farewell social
in a Vic. country town the guests soon got through
all the available liquor, whereupon a raid was
made on a number of jars in an adjoining room.
The first opened contained some “spontaneous
yeast,” and was duly guzzled as beer. Two more
jars containing new milk were also emptied, and
the grand finale was when, to the tune of “We
Won’t go Home till Morning,” the surviving
topers swigged off the Worcester sauce and vinegar
from the cruets on the tables.
EXPRESSIVE.
MRS. HOWLER: “Always some excitement whenever we come to town!
Last time it was the Bakers’ Holiday! ”
REV. H OWLER: "Hum! and this time it’s the Butchers’ —apparently! ”
“ Itan ” : A Moruya (N.S.W.) cow, which
di o d mysteriously, was found to have a catfish
stuck fast m her throat. Local feed was scarce.
THE BUSINESS INSTINCT.
VERY LITTLE H EBREW: “My mother bought a
new baby this morning.”
LITTLE G ENTILE: “Pooh —we got two last week!”
LITTLE H EBREW: “Did you get them any cheaper
by taking the two? ”
“ Dickolb ” : The mistaking by waterfowl
of ail iron roof for water is not uncommon out-
back in drought-time. In Dec., ’95 (time of the
great heat-wave), on the Lower Darling, N.S.W.,
I saw a flock of black swans crash down on the
long, glittering woolshed-roof ; three were killed
outright and several injured. Have heard of
many similar cases. Also, when camped one
night in a tent on the edge of a swamp on
Marra Creek, N.S. W., a flock of spur-winged
plover (they’re night-flyers) scared us by dashing
right into the tent—attracted, doubtless, by the
light. These plover, by the way, will make flying
charges when disturbed or shot at on a plain, and,
dashing close past your head, will attempt to
rip your face with the wing-spike. Eaglehawks
and crows— destroyers of the plovers’ eggs and
brood—have often thus been spiked to death.
* * * *
“ D.” : I don’t wonder at those ducks up
Cobar way mistaking a galvanised roof for water
(8., 5/7/ 02) —it’s so long since they saw any water
up there. I was at Cobar once and found some
residents swamping the vilest alleged whisky I
ever struck—one glass laid me out. But they
thought it good—duck theory—hadn’t seen better
for years.
* * * *
“ H.P.’ 1 : Be self-sucking cows. I have
known a farmer in one case try to prevent this by
bagging the animal’s entire hind-quarters, but the
cow would manage to tear off the covering with
her horns. This man's explanation of the habit
was that the cow had calved in the bush, and the
calf, having died before the parent was found, the
cow had been obliged herself to relieve her burst-
ing udder.
* * * *
The fox keeps on increasing in N.S.W. ;
102 scalps were paid for at Wagga during May.
“ J. 0.5.” (having
taken his oath, broken
a plate, blown out a
match, and killed a
rooster): In Riverina
lately I stumbled over
a snake,' which made
for its hole, with me
in chase. As it was
attempting to go in,
its mate was trying
to come out, so the
two became jammed
and could not move.
Finale, two dead
snakes.
* *
A Warracknabeal
(Vic;.) spttler, through
boiling wheat in a
drum previously used
lor poisoned pollard,
recently lost a team
of seven valuable
draughts. The Aus.
cockie is a careless
animal. Writer has
known 10ft. of neg-
lected barbed wire to
disable a pet colt
beyond redemption;
and o n ce, in the
Western district, four
bags of wheat, perfunctorily planted in an exposed
chati-heap, accounted for two bullock-teams in
one night.


The Silent .
Constitution
TABLE SALT
From Grocers and Stores, Wholesale Agents ’.—Harrison & Attwood, Sydney .
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
Solid Silver Shoe Horn and Button Hook
in Morocco Case, 8/6.
SILVER TOILET NIC-NACS^
We Revel in at Surprising Prices.
They meet you at every turn in our Showrooms.
Solid Silver Boot Fasteners, 7 inches long, 2/6.
Solid Silver Glove Fasteners, 3 inches long, 1/-.
Solid Silver Shoe Lifts, 7 inches long, 5,6.
Solid Silver Shoe Horn and Button Hook in case, 8/6.
Solid Silver Pin Trays, 3£ inches long, 5/9.
Solid Silver Top Hair Pin Bottles, 3t inches high, 3/6.
Solid Silver Top Puff Boxes, 3 inches high, 10/6.
Exquisite Art Designs—Reproductions of Silver
Designs of the Old Masters.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
London Prices.
Plain Figures.
Strictly' Cash.
23 HUNTER STREET.
“Bolivar” : In the early
days two escaped convicts
landed at Flinders Island
(S.A.) and carried on a seal
trade with Yankee whalers.
S.A. squatter Schlank took
over the island years after-
wards, and one day, while he
was building a wool-shed, the
milkers came down to the
house full gallop, pursued by
a huge boar, not before known
to be on the island. The big
pig went into the house and
began to knock things about,
and Schlank, from the wool-
shed roof, heaved tools and
blasphemy till the pig got
tired and went to sleep in the
best bed. Then Schlank
sneaked down and made a bee-
line for the boat, a quarter
mile away. Constable and
tracker were sent from the
mainland, and the boar was
tracked and shot. It just
fitted into a bullock-dray, and
was supposed to have been
left by the convicts aforesaid.
“M‘Duff”: The abori-
gines around here (Yeppoon,
Q.) seem to have a strong
dread of Frazer Island and
Protector Mission. The blacks
at Frau Park got wind that a
raid was to be made on their
camp, and three hours later
there was not a nig. to be
found. One capture, agin, has
been married to a Kanaka for
nearly 12 years, and only after
much importunity was he
allowed to accompany his
better-half. It was a shame
to exile them, as they owned a
boat and fishing-net and a
comfortable little hut, and
could easily earn their bread.
“ Jaf.” : Re reading Hansard (8., 5/7/’O2),
I know several cookies who never read anything
else. The “Im Pay ” supplies them gratis —has
to! When they take a “ deny ”on a candidate
for Parliament, he gets a rough time of it answer-
ing political conundrums.
--j * * * *
“Rita”: “Cyniphilos” (B. 5/6/’O2) must
refer to the drunken antics of some bush louts.
Here in Tasmania, at all events, the drover’s or
shearer’s care of his dog is proverbial; though, of
course, strict obedience (in which lies the tyke’s
whole value) is enforced. Many a tim6 have I
been asked by a spree-broken shearer for “ just a
scrap of meat for my dog”—for the neglect of
which during the carousal he would be very
penitent.
LORD HOPETOUN —his latest photo, (by J.
Hubert Newman, Sydney).
“Prospector": The holes sunk in the
bush by blacks in search of the wombat are as
round as a cask. No digger would sink them
truer, and it’s hard to understand how the dirt
was removed, as the holes go down a considerable
depth. I know of one on Lord’s Creek, Mitta
Mitta, Vic., that is 23ft. deep, and of one near
Mansfield, Vic., 15ft. deep.
SOLITUDE.
Re wet sheep. My experience
is that after a certain stage (just where all the
trouble arises) no one can distinguish with cer-
tainty between humidity of the “yolk” and wet
wool. Immediately before rain the wool-tables,
&c., become damp and clammy through absorp-
tion of moisture from the air by the “ yolk.” At
a certain station, the other day, when a wet-sheep
dispute arose, the “classer” took a fleece just
shorn from a disputed sheep and one shorn before
the rain, and asked all hands which was the wet
one. The unanimous verdict was for the latter.
Even the “tester” fails at this stage; but, after
all, there is not nearly so much danger as is popu-
larly supposed in shearing wet sheep. It is only
when the fleece is heated or “ steamy ” that there
is risk.
“A.E.C.”: Southern Monaro is
periodically visited by a gregarious, in-
sectivorous, and frugivorous type of crow,
which can eat (and destroy) more apples
in a given time than any equal number
of other birds. I have heard of them
attacking grapes, and have known them to
strip all the fruit off damson-trees without
apparently eating any—merely dropping it
on the ground. When these birds first
appear, they seem so intent on the pursuit
of grasshoppers that they gain a favorable
reputation, which lasts till an unsuspecting
orchardist allows them to pursue their prey
amongst his apple trees. When he has
cleared. these, Mr. Crow returns cheerfully
to his insect diet.
“Chasselas”: Re the crow’s penchant
for grapes. I have a small vineyard in
Ararat district (Vic.), and, if I didn’t “ take
steps,” would, in a few days, have the
whole of the year’s grapes devoured by
crows. I place a few rabbit-traps on top of
the fence-posts around the vineyard, chain-
ing the traps to the wires. The crows,
before commencing on the vines, alight on
these posts. Strange to say, the bare
trap, so placed, is a certain catch, while
a trap placed under a vine, and carefully
covered, will be always avoided. The
unearthly row made by a trapped crow will
scare the others away for days. Some of
the Ararat vignerons obtain good results
with a poisoned.carcase placed amongst the
vines. Crows are also greatly given to
pulling up the young wheat, just as it ap-
pears for the sake of the soft, milky grain
at the bottom.
* * * •
A tight place ! The Gulgong
(N.S.W.) people depend on the water in
abandoned mining-shafts for domestic and
stock purposes, and during present drought
the horses are watered at a 225 ft. shaft on
the . Red Hill, the water being hauled to
the surface with an old whim. T’other day
something happened to one of the buckets,
tind a man went below to rectify matters.
When he was being hauled to the surface
again the whole of the strands of the
wire rope parted, leaving him suspended
over a sheer fall of 200 ft. by the small
hempen cord that makes the centre of
most wire ropes. This, fortunately, held till he
was hauled to the surface.
* * * *
“ Once-for-all ” : Re things found in eggs
(8., 14/6/ 02 and 5/7/’02): I found the other day,
m my hoarding-house egg, a sewing-machine, a
coal-shovel, a set of false teeth, a baby’s shoe, and
a pair of silk stockings.
A Talk with Nellie Stewart.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Miss Nellie Stewart enjoys the distinction of
being the one actress who, having appeared very
often in Australia, each time has scored a signal
success. Consequently the most surprising thing
that she had to tell me was that since “ the
Firm ” dissolved she gets no salary, no royalty,
no percentage of the £2OOO a week that has
streamed into Sydney Theatre Royal treasury since
the versatile and popular woman opened her
season of “ Sweet Nell.” “I play in Australia,”
she said, “just for iny love of the public.”
She sat at a table, and talked from under her
black picture-hat. Once she nodded it towards
St. Mary’s Cathedral. “ I was christened over
there; but you’re not going to ask me when.”
Then with a laugh, and a nod, and a twirl of her
chain, she added, “ My religion now is the same
as everybody else’s.” “ You mean,” I said, “you
smoke?” She turned her head away so that I
saw only the hat. There was a pause, then
slowly the hat came round, then the face with the
eyes looking on the carpet, and she said in a
guilty whisper : “ Yes ! I smoke cigarettes—but
then I was told to smoke—not by the doctor, be-
cause that’s an excuse ; but if I want to think I
smoke ; or if I get a letter that annoys me I find
a cigarette calms me wonderfully.”
“Oh, if I hadn’t my work I’d die ! My work
is my very life. I love my work, my art. Stage
life is a lovely life. I love housekeeping too ;
when I’m home I go into the kitchen and do my
own grills, with nice little burnt corners on the
chops. But my domestication does not reach to
cats and dogs, or those things. I like to look at
them but I have no time for them.
‘ I won’t walk under a ladder, and I won’t wear
a piece of green on a first-night. The pink ribbon
I wore on the first night of ‘ Ma Mie Rosette ’ I
still keep on my looking-glass for luck. And
speaking of first nights, I was ill the first night of
‘ Sweet Nell ’ in Sydney. I was dreadfully
nervous ; I was so anxious to please.
“ I studied up the character of Nell Gwynne
from history, and thus formed my conception of
the part. One critic wanted me to come out in
my bare feet this winter weather, and get my
death of cold ! And with regard to critics and
audiences, it is astonishing how audiences differ.
One has to adapt one’s playing to suit the audience.
When I feel what an audience is like I alter my
work accordingly. Some nights an audience is on
the look-out for serious points; other times it is
waiting for the laugh, and will cough and fidget
during serious passages. The first act gives you
the character of the audience, and then, behind
the scenes, the remark will go round: ‘Fine
audience to-night! ’ or else ‘Aren’t they dull ! ’
“A Saturday n : ght audience is entirely different
from a week-night audience. But it’s lovely to
feel you’re getting over the footlights and getting
right into your audience.
“ I seldom dream. I like to dream of Royalty,
because it shows that something good is coming.
And I’ve been to the palmist. He told me some
beautiful things. Oh ! I won’t tell them —I’m
not wicked enough to believe in them. But he
gave me two warnings—one of fire, the other of
robbery. And he told me I was going to America
and to South Africa, and that I was going to
appear before Royalty.
“I think I’d iike a motor. I’ve done a little-
cycling and riding. But I’d love a motor. Fenc-
ing and dancing are the best things for the deport-
ment of a woman. Dancing improves the foot
and fencing improves the carriage and balance.
“ I have to be very particular as to what I eat.
I take little breakfast. My mid-day meal is my
principal one. I take afternoon tea on occasions.
Before I go to the theatre for the performance I
drink a cupful of meat-juice, crushed from 31b. of
raw meat by a machine I brought with me from
Paris. During the performance I take a little
beef-tea. After the show is over I come home to
a good supper and burgundy. Then I sit up a
little, talking business; after which I retire for
nine hours’ sleep. I’m a really good sleeper, and
if I don’t get my nine hours, I make up for it in
the afternoon.
“I took the company out for a day’s fishing
yesterday. ‘ Goody, ’of course, was with us. He
showed us where to get on to a shoal of mackerel.
This time in Sydney I can’t go out walking. I
used to go out before; take a run over to Mos-
raan’s or one of the bays. But now I can’t go out
without being followed by a crowd. The other-
afternoon the flock that came after me and my
little girl made me quite embarrassed. I went
into a chemist’s to escape them. Some followed
me in, and one of the most daring looked into my
face, then turned and said, ‘She ain’t got blue
eyes: they’re brown.’ Of course, it is very flat-
tering for people to take such notice of one.
“ Personality is everything in an actor or actress..
It gets you over the footlights. Miss Pat Camp-
bell is lovely ; combining a striking personality
with splendid acting talents. Personality means;
so much in London. There they don’t want
versatility; they want types.
“I can’t bear reading humorous books. I like;
serious ones. I’m a little morbid. I like romance.
The older I get, alas, the more romantic I become..
And I’m very fond of studying character in real
life. I think that the people who study character
a lot can adapt themselves to their surroundings.
“The happiest day of my life was the day I
was selected to represent Australia in singing the
opening ode at the State concert in Melbourne.
I was strung up to a fearful pitch. Sitting on my
chair I had to keep clutching at it to stop myself
from dancing up and flying off at a tangent. But
when I did begin to sing I kept my head and with
cunning. I did not sing for the dome or to throw
my voice down the aisle, but I went for the Duke
and the Duchess. I turned at such an angle that
I sang right into the Duke and the Duchess, and
my voice, striking the wall behind them, came
back and filled the building.
“As a travelled student of character I have
formed some theories and observed many differ-
ences. One is that the Australian man is the
most alert man under the sun ; the Australian
woman is the most alert woman. Their alertness
is their distinctive characteristic, and it is shown
in their walk, their talk, their manners, methods
—everything.
“Every day I receive letters of all sorts—
mostly from women admirers. I receive many
applications for charity, so I am going to give a-
charity matinee as a means of answering them.
“ Singing and speaking affect my voice, so I
reserve all my strength for my part. During
the performance, both on and off the stage, I
live in my conception of the character. That is
why I can’t stand people coming round and
worrying me in my dressing-room. I live for
my art ; I concentrate all my adaptability into
the character, and live intensely from the first
rise to the last fall of the curtain. If I happen
to sing badly, I suffer much more than the
audience ; I’m worrying all the time. And of a
morning my only anxiety is : ‘ Will Ibe in form
to do what I want to do to-night ? ’
“My Nell Gwynne hat is quite right. Mrs.
Sandes’ husband, delving into some musty book,
found it was a cart-wheel hat 36in. wide. Sol
have it 3Gin. wide, with 36 feathers in it. It is
built on wire—the sort of stuff that the gridirons
are made of. The little handkerchief keeps the
wig on, and I pin the hat to the wig. My success
as Nell Gwynne in Sydney is the greatest triumph
of my life. Oh ! stage life is a lovely life !
“My mother could trace her family back to
four generations ; all had dabbled in stage tragedy.
And my adaptability to stage work was born in
me—came to me spontaneously. Prior to my
first appearance in ‘ The Mikado,’ my father and
Mr. Musgrove came to me and said : ‘ Have you
thought out what you ought to do?’ ‘No,’ I
replied, ‘ I haven’t.’ They were concerned before
the performance, but they were not afterwards.
For it all came to me on the stage, even to the
turning of the toes. By the way, I should so love
to take a trip to Japan.
MISS NELLIE STEWART.
Photo, by Talma, Sydney and Melbourne.
“In ‘Nell Gwynne’ the scene with the King
grew. The whole of it grew with Mr. Beatty.
He is such a sympathetic actor. One night, by
accident, I dropped my fan. Mr. Beatty picked
it up. It went with a big round. Both of us
then wanted to keep this bit of business in, but
Mr. Tapping, the stage-manager, advised us to
adhere in this instance to the MS. I came
to play Nell Gwynne quite accidentally. Mr.
Musgrove had the play, and he said : ‘ Dear me, I
can’t get anybody to play the part; what am I to
do ?’ ‘ Give it to me,’ I said.
“I have a better part than Nell Gwynne coming
out. Mr. Musgrove is sending me Mrs. Leslie
Carter’s big part and greatest success. ,
S. A. MIL.
“Another dose,” exclaims a way backer
to The Bulletin :
The See-O’Sullivan preventive and remedy for drought
is at length published, and, as expected, is another dose
of the old medicine. The ladle is dipped into the loan-
pot, £200,000 scooped out, and the order given. “ Gape,
sinners, and swallow ! ” Not one step beyond adminis-
tration of that dose does the N.S.W. Government pro-
posal go. Not a plan ready ; not an idea about a plan.
No more notice of the quantity of water 6in. of Central
Division rain would send down the Darling and Lachlan
than the Mitchell folks had of what became of Macquarie
waters after they reached the marshes. Yet Minister
after Minister has been to and fro in the land, and data
enough are available to enable plans to be prepared for
dealing in a comprehensive way with all the country
west of 150° long, and north of 34° lat. If the whole
is too big even to be considered by the Ministry,
or generation, or century, it should be possible to block-
out sections. Take the Darling ; and why not, first of
all, deal with the question of locking? Look next to that
curious; inland delta where the Queensland Balonne
waters break-up into Culgoa, Birie-Nanan, and Bokhara
creeks, and might, if conserved, render a million acres
always fertile. Next come all the opportunities lying
about the Terrawynia and Tallymalka country-, with its
network of billabongs and lakes. Then the anabranch
lower down, between Menindie and Wentworth, encloses
a territory. And all these on one river. Such a sum as
£200,000 might make a fair beginning in any one of the
sections roughly indicated. The same amount messed-
away, as suggested, over the whole country, will begin
nothing. It is flapdoodle business—heal-all, cure-all,
save-all; and, of course, borrow-all. There is as much
hope in it as in borrowing money to buy feed for stock at
Gilgunnia or Tibooburra or Ned’s Corner, and there is no
crank mad enough to suggest that.


THE REAL “STRENGTH” OF THE ANTI-BARMAID MOVEMENT .-THE STRUGGLE FOR THE MAN.


MOSTLY MELBOURNIAN.
The interesting and'instructive - dimerfet-
lion on fortifications by Sir William Lyne,
Acting Minister of Defence, which appeared
m the Acs on Monday, has given occasion
| to much good-humored comment in military
;■ circles. It is urged that Sir William Lyne’s
scheme of planting big guns in the bush to
keep the invader from violating these shores
is in no wise more satisfactory than a sys-
tem of coast wise fortifications.
X'J
Afc i
xt „
” "'<■ <£ 4 '»
c %,. v <6 , V <4,./
x>^s
*•' <9 ..'*•///
««
W d j% >
fycK'r (inside) • —-I K (3 ill
tTjUYt” \ Vin on be
5o £> \> oor k°Kev;
THE COST Of VICE-ROYALTY.
_— «
OVfiR £lOO,OOO A YEAR.
Judging by some comments of the London
press Upon the matter of Lord Hopetoun’s
resignation of the post of Governor-General,
thh casual inquirer would imagine that vice-
royalty in Australia was treated very shabbily.
A study of the actual facts, however, shows
that this young country of 4,000,000 persons,
of whom under 1,000,000 are breadwinners,
pays Oyer £lOO,OOO a year for the privilege of
having the King represented in its midst.
jV^liv— /
I jorjK / S \
ajonc
h]e £lOOO
WeeK .*’
COfOA
\SfWfc
io)
iV
Seven—
)^Vr
I \y*r>
“t 5
(lotjsher
worhS
"fl){
iftto
recYei/iVe fjoU>f
-f« r
Doc.— AV fyevn*-
s« .'twer™'
Reform for * wb.U - *>« * l '*« f""1 e ‘
It is very kind of the Toadies Education
Council at Leeds to undertake the training
of young women for the position of wives in
the colonies, * ias
been taught the arithmetic of household
accounts to any purpose, she will appreciate
the seriousness of a position which, after
expenses of education and passage to these
shores Viavg been paid, leaves her stranded
here with only seven-eighths! of the chance
of a husband which she would have enjoyed
if she had stayed quietly at home
ELECTRIC RAILWAYS.
AN OFFICIAL SCHEME.
THIRTEEN LINES PROPOSED.
oj-fictjJ *' / M
i) „
n r\oW We *fK)
ELECTRICITY
\ '• I Vj V‘*i
jMALLEB WATER SUPPLY.
from tEe'Premier’s reply to the deputation
wLie+i waited on .him yesterday, it baa
made only too apparent that the present ‘
•Government ip tends they shall wait another
five years ‘at -least before any water for
domestic ■ supply and ..stock purposes
■can trjoklc through to the northern
Thallee—if it ever reaches so far at all,
ryhieh' is' very doubtful indeed
f rewtr Here'iXKe a.
Swi? , 9 U1C n ■ rf^
The new postal regulations are not giving
satisfaction, more especially among business
people. A number of firms have been surprised
to find the banks returning postal-notes and
money-orders placed to their accounts, with the
announcement that these must have the signa-
ture of the payee. Previously his signature was
mft necessary.
"lilK K Wy hy
Rubl ic.
Yiovry "ttye |?uMic• j


A. SAUNDERS
FOR WEDDING PRESENTS, USEFUL AND ACCEPTABLE.
Showrooms:
815 GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
A. SAUNDERS.
Two SERVIETTE RINGS, in Silk-lined Case,
Pure Silver-plated on Hard Nickel Silver,
in three similar patterns of ferns, 12s 6d, 15s 6d ;
Pure Solid Silver, 30s, 355, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
ENTREE DISH, makes Two Dishes,
Pure Silver-plated on White Nickel Silver, 40s.
Other styles, £2 10s to £6.
A_. SAUNDERS.
0102 -HOT WATER KETTLE and STAND,
Silver-plated on White Metal, Extra Chased, £2 10s.
Similar Designs, £2, £3, £3 10s.
A
TEA POT, Extra Heavy Silver-plated, 27s 6d.
Similar styles, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s, £2.
w 3».
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class Silver-plated CRUET,
as abovej, 21s.
EGG CRUET, Pure Silver-plated,
with Spoons, 255.
Other styles, 30s, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM DISH, White or Coloured
Ornamented Glass, Pure Silver electro-
plated on Hard Nickel Silver, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Beautiful 8-Day, striking' hours and half-hours, Marblette CLOCK, £2 2s 6d.
Reliable Timekeepers.
A MOST ACCEPTABLE PRESENT,
Post Free Anywhere,
JAM or BUTTER KNIFE,
Pure Silver-plated on Hard
White Metal, 2s, 2s 6d, 3s 6d,
4s tid. Special Value.
CANDLESTICK,
Pure Silver-plated, 12s 6d.
Leaf Pattern, 8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oak DINNER GONG-, Silver-plated Mounted, £2 10s.
Other styles, 17s 6d,~2Cs, 255, 30s.
A NICE PRESENT.
VVE GUARANTEE YOU THE UTMOST
SATISFACTION.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST FREE.
A. SAUNDERS.
Silver-plated
FLORAL STAND,
Ruby Glass, 12s 6d
a pair.
Very Cheap.
SALTS,
Silver-plated Stands,
6s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d.
Sfi
V '
Hi
<5
■
V.
SHI
A. SAUNDERS.
Handsomely Chased, First-class, A 1 TEA and COFFEE SET, £8 10s. B Quality, £6 10s. TEA SET only, £3 10s and £4
Other styles, £5 ss, £6 6s to £2O. Send for Illustrated Book.
A. SAUNDEBS.
SUGAR SCUTTLE,
Silver Electro-plated, Handsomely
Chased, 16s 6d and 20s ;
extra quality, 255, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver BOOK MARK, 2s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
A 1 Quality 4 o’clock CAKE FORKS, Pure Silver-plated
Hard White Metal, 10s 6d and 12s 6d half-dozen.
Our Silverplate is England’
Highest Quality.
A. SAUNDERS.
8124.—0ak BISCUIT, Silver-plated
Mounted, 20s ; Shield only, 15s ;
Fluted Rims, 255; Floral China
Mounted, 15s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD BOARD and KNIFE, Pure Silver-plated on Hard
Nickel Silver. Beautifully Chased and Ornamented, 35s ;
can be used as Cake Dish or Salver. Similar styles, 2Ls, 25s'
30s, £2, £2 10s. A USEFUL PRESENT.
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE BASKET, Beautifully Chased,
355, £2, £2 10s, £B. Cheaper styles, 20s, 255, 30s.
.
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class 4-Bottle CRUET,
Silver-plated, 355. Similar, 255, 30s.
ViYiYmVTV
VAVAWiVAmVY,'*
A. SAUNDERS.
Oak INKSTAND, Highest Quality, £2 10s.
Other styles, Silver-plated, 30s, £2, £2 10s, £3.
m.
a®
m
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Beautifully Chased and Carved JEWEL CASE,
Pure Silver-plated, Silk-lined, 15s 6d.
POCKET SPIRIT FLASKS.
All Sorts, Prices, and Styles, 7s 6d, 10s 6d, 15s,
20s, 255, 30s, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Double JAMS, Moral Ornamented China, 255, 30s.
In single, 15s 6d. Pure Silver-plated Rims.
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER AND SILVERSMITH,
815 AND 817
GEORGE-ST.
NEARLY OPPOSITE
RAILWAY STATION,
SYDNEY.


Supplied to Her Majesty the Queen of Greece and to every court in Europe.
t?
Hair
■
Eradicates Scurf and Dandruff, Prevents Hair Falling:, Promotes
Growth, contains no Dye, and its unique testimonials prove it
to be undoubtedly the Best Preparation for the Hair.
&
SPECIAL OFFER in AUSTRALASIA
to those who have
sot yet tried
KOKO
A 1
19/7/
02
£s\
Any Person forwarding this Coupon with Postal
Note for 2s. and Postage (postage is ninepence) will
receive Immediately for trial, by parcel post, undercover,
prepaid, one regular l2oz. bottle of Koko for the Hair,
the price of which is 4s. 6d. provided it is ordered within 44-
days frond the date of this offer. In no case will
more than one bottle be sent for the use of the same person
on this Coupon, as we make the offer solely for trial, knowing
that it creates a demand when once used ; and this large bottle
gives it a fair trial. We find it better to thus practically give
away one bottle to make a customer than to spend large amounts
in advertising. Any person into whose hands this offer
comes may make use of it. Address all Orders with
Coupons to the KOKO-MARICOPAS CO.. Ltd.. 12 DEAN'S PLACE. SYDNEY, N.S.W. .Orders may be sent
with this Coupon after the expiratiou of date, providing we are then issuing these trial Coupons, and if we are
Dot, the money will he returned. This Coupon will be received at 12 Dean’s Place, Sydney, ‘and Only 2] *
will be required when postage is not necessary.
(3* Dean’s Place is ofi 270 George Street
IS., 28. pd., and 4s, 6d., OF ALL CHEMISTS, STORES, &a, EVERYWHERE.
OOM MISS! ONERS OF SAVINGS BANKS.
For Advances Department, known as
“Credit Foncier.”
FOURTH ISSUE
of Government Guaranteed
Debentures *>r £lOO,OOO
at 3| per cent.
To Mature 30th April, 1907.
To be issued under the authority of the Acts of Parlia-
ment of Victoria, Nos. 1481, 1722, and 1778.
CONDITIONS FOR TENDERS.
1. Tenders will be receivable at the Commissioners’
Head Office, 29 Market street, Melbourne, for the whole or
any portion of the above amount until noon on Tuesday,
29th July, 1902, when tenders will be opened in the
presence of tenderers or their agents who may attend.
2. Each tender must be sealed, addressed to “The
Commissioners of Savings Banks, Melbourne,” and
endorsed “ Tender for Debentures.”
3. Debentures will be issued in denominations of £lOO,
or £5OO, as may be desired by successful tenderers, and
applicants must state in their tenders the number and
value of the debentures they desire to receive.
4. Interest at 31 per cent, per annum will be payable
half-yearly, on 30th April and 31st October, the first such
payment being due on 30th April, 1903, at the Commis-
sioners’ head office, or at any savings bank in Victoria.
5. Any tender below £99/10/- per £lOO will not be
entertained.
6. Tenderers of the highest premiums will have prefer-
ence, and to tenderers of even rates debentures will be
allotted proportionately to the applications, as nearly as
may be practicable. Tenders at a price including a frac-
tion of a shilling other than sixpence will not be
preferentially accepted by reason of such fraction.
7. Any tender received from the Savings Banks depart-
ment shall not be allowed to compete with other tenders,
but all other tenders shall have preference.
8. Tenders must be accompanied by a deposit in cash,
or by a bank draft payable to the Commissioners of Savings
Banks, amounting to 10 per cent, of the face value of the
debentures applied for, and if the tender be accepted in
full, or pro rata, the balance must be paid on or before
. 30th September, 1902, or may be paid at any earlier date.
Interest at 3J per cent, per annum will be allowed on
accepted tenderers’ lodgments of 10 per cent, and over
from date of receipt to 31st October, 1902.
9. The deposit of 10 per cent, will be forfeited to and
. become the absolute property of the Commissioners in
the event of the balance remaining unpaid after the dates
above specified.
10. Brokers who are members of recognised Stock Ex-
changes will be allowed a commission on face value of
debentures at the rate of ten shillings per cent, for
accepted tenders.
11. Principal will be payable at the head office of the
Commissione2S in Melbourne.
12. The due payment of these debentures, and of all
interest thereon, is a charge on all the securities held by
and the funds of the Commissioners, under division 3 of
part 1 of the Act No. 1481, and is also guaranteed by the
Government of Victoria.
13. Copies of the authorising Act may be inspected
and conditions and form of tender can be obtained upon
application at the head office of the Commissioners, or
any of their savings banks.
U. By section 36 of Act 1481, section 5 of Act 1722,
and section 13 of Act 1778, any corporate body, charitable
or friendly society, may invest any portion of the funds or
moneys under their control in the purchase of these
debentures ; and any executors, administrators, or
trustees having the power or duty of investing any moneys
may purchase these debentures with or out of such
moneys (unless forbidden to do so by the Act or instru-
ment under which they act), and every such investment
and purchase shall be deemed a due investment of any
such funds or moneys.
Bv order of the board,
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General of Savings Banks.
30th June, 1902,
Marvellous Effects.
YOUR PICTURES IN
SOLID RELIEF.
SSffi
The
Stereo
Weno
For Stereoscopic Pictures upon
KODAK daylight changing cartridge
Film.
Price,
£6 6s.
Only.
Send for new Illustrated List and mention
this paper.
KODAK
Limited and Reduced,
784 Collins Street, Melbourne.
AND OF ALL DEALERS.
IN order to introduce our Gold Wire Jewellery
to the Australian public we have decided to
offer one of the greatest bargains ever seen in the
jewellery trade— viz., the above handsome Brooch
(any name or three initials) made of extra quality
hot. gold-filled wire, with heart pendant ; guaran-
teed the same quality as the brooch advertised,
complete. Sent post-free on receipt of P. 0.0, or
M.O. for ss. in round wire or sq. twisted wire, 15ct
gold, filled, Bs. 6d. Illustrated catalogues sent free'
SIMS and ELRICK, Manufacturing Jewellers.
Our only address —
COLE’S BOOK ARCADE, MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA
It’s an easy job for the barber to
part the hair od a head like this.
It’s just as easy to prevent baldness
if you only do the right thing.
Baldness is almost always a sure
sign of neglect; it is the story of neg-
lected dandruff.
Dandruff is untidy, unnecessary, and
unhealthy.
Ayer's Hair Vigor
cures dandruff and prevents baldness.
You save your hair and you are spared
the annoyance of untidy clothing.
It also stops falling of the hair, and
makes the hair grow thick and long.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Make sure that you get the genuine
Ayer's Hair Vigor,
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
("1 IVEN AWAY
X To Advertise our
OSTRICH TIPS,
Post 2/6 Free.
3 Black Tips with Ospreys
A Marvel of Cheapness.
WRITE TO-DAY.
A GIFT FOR THE LADIES.
Hggn
Graceful and
becoming for Younj
or Old.
Ostrich
Tips.
5/-
The Bunch.
Worth 10/6.
TWO VERY SUPERIOR TIPS,
with OSPREYS, in Black,
White, or Cream.
Send Postal Notes with Exchange.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Bourke & Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
Mention The Bulletin.
Established 1846.
For Sale — im _
Good quality Fuse, in cases of 500 coils, 41d. coil.
Roofing Felt, 75ft. x 32in., Bs. per roll.
500 tons Bolts and Nuts, up to 30in. long.
Black Galvanised Steam Pipe, up to Bin. dia.
Octagon Steel, lin. dia., £2O per ton.
Bullock, Leading, Drag, Back Chains, 2d. II).
Good Hand Pumps, 6s. ea. ; Hames, Is. 6d. pair.
Grindstones, 12in. to 20in., 2s. each.
Harwood’s French Polish, ss. gallon.
Paints, in tins, from 31b.
Damaged (slightly) Wire Nails, 9s. cwt.
Cooking Ranges, 36in. dia., 30s. each.
Black Paint, 20s. cwt.
Marine Paint and Priming, 20s. cwt.
One of the Largest Stocks of Ironmongery
in Australia.
John macintosh & Sons,
Wholesale & Retail
IRONMONGERS, IMPORTERS, BUILDERS,
ENGINEERS, PLUMBERS, BLACKSMITHS, CABINET
MAKERS, and GENERAL IRONMONGERY,
307, 321, 323, 325 PITT STREET,
Sydney, N.S.W.
S€NP US
YOUR PHOTOGRAPH.
JF you send a Photograph of yourself (or friend) to
Mr. Mark Blow, Crown Studios, Sydney,
he will reproduce from it a very beautiful and
Artistically Finished
Permanent Enlargement
In Black and White, equalling a rich Steel Plate
Engraving, Handsomely mounted on an Indian-tinted
Plate, sunk mount, and as good in every way as Enlarge-
ments now being supplied at from 30/- to 50/- each, and
will carefully pack it and send it Carriage Paid to any
address in Australia, Tasmania, or New Zealand for 10,6.
Your Photo. Returned with Order.
prwt'
TTj'i Vi't i<ti
A Wonderful power is placed at your
disposal in Hypnotism—the power to control
others— to relieve disease— to make frlend9
•--to make money— and gratify your
ambition. You may become a commanding
master of humanity. r n fact, there is so much
that is wonderful to tell you about it that I bav*
written a book for that purpose. It has 11
illustrations. J
Anyone .
knowing how m< possess me power—both men and women.
Some p-rsons exercise a light hypnotic Influence unconsciously*
ho doubt you hive mol such people. They are the kind who
eucceed in the world with no apparent effort.
By a knowledge of Hypnotism, bad habits, nervous diseases
bad dispositions. sleer>!es<n«»«« »n.t mK.. .in:..: ... » '
.leeptessaese, and’other iffliofoßi'i..., u.
reatment Backward or ungovernable
stngl,
....... ur ungovcrnaDio
~.„w •“•i.suuui improvement under bypnotia
treatment at the hands of their parents or others. 7
I have taught thousands of hypnotists in America. Hutu
dreds of delighted students in Australia already 1 reach
them through my book The system is very simple. There
is no reason why you should not become as good a HypoQ*
tis» as I am. Satisfaction guaranteed. Jr™*
wra ,h d .B*' l ,JX i “.Ti!- r h ,f ™ stamps. York
P°»ted i»
rnorcsso/t a. e. barrinotoh.
Us} Collins St., Me&ourne.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
Xo notice will le taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
Xo liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
Kyali: That was Don Quixote’s principle—
“ Wherever I sit is the head of the table.” M.E. : But
then a church is not necessarily a “ charitable” institu-
tion. Rather it is often a forcing-bed of hatred, malice
and all imcharitableness Melborno : You forget that
they are man and wife—you could not compliment one at
the direct expense of the other without insulting both....
Wealsman: But King Ned isn’t “ the first-born of
Victoria and Albert.” Ena: Proper “title” for the
wife of a K.C.M.G. or G.O.M.G. is “ Dame,” not “ Lady.”
They’ve no right to call themselves Lady; they are
allowed to do so probably because, otherwise, it would be
difficult to get men to become K.O.M.Geese Arreleff :
Lovely specimen of cattishness ! How you would squeal
if your letter were published and it somehow transpired
that you were the writer! O.L.E. (Eng.): Willoughby
Andrew is still in gaol. The ostensible reason for his
reprieve after he had committed so deliberate-looking a
murder was that he was of unbalanced intellect; it is not
probable that he will be released as an act of grace at
Coronation-time. (2) He Ernest Weaver, reprieved after
being sentenced to death for murdering the captain of
the Black Hawk, Bulletin does not know what has
become of him. Perhaps some Fijian reader can te11....
John Brown : “Cry of the Capitalist” been all said here
before, and with only one “ 1.”... .H.I. : In Westralia the
natives are captured as you describe for service on
stations—it is compulsory service, though squatting
J.’sP. kindly certify that each other’s niggers enter
voluntarily into the agreement to work without wages.
Slavery exists in the East Africa Protectorate (British),
and there are certain compulsory-labor devices in
Rhodesia which are much the same thing... .C.D. J. : We
have another Cain-Abel yarn awaiting print, and it
knocks yours out in one round... .Quandong : Coincid-
ence too strained. A man, by accident, hears a complete
stranger tell part of a story. Ten years later, never hav-
ing met the stranger in the interval, he hears his voice
again. He is telling the other half of the same story
V. : You are mistaken about the “ laudatory criti-
cisms ” of the London papers ; no paper of importance
said anything that meant more than “great promise.”....
J.L. : The best remedy would be to remove legal dis-
abilities from all illegitimates—irrespective of the actions
of their parents.... Kelpie : Silly... .Tom : Evidently
people who can’t write prose take refuge in poetry—just
as those who can’t draw take refuge in wash. You are
very washy.. .N.S.W. : Total Maorilanddebt, £49,591,245;
per head, £64 6s. lid. These are latest available figures.
Doubtless the debt has increased since they were pub-
lished The Owl : Two lines from your racing poem
suggest that you may be one day Minerva’s pet :
And freely swopped our guineas
For notes in neighs and whinnies.
... .BuLLETiN-Australian : The British royal family gets
about £660,000. The President and Vice-President of the
United States get barely £12,000 between them. The
question of the extra cost of the U.S. Congress, through
payment of members, has nothing to do with the case,
because non-payment of members isn’t a part of the
monarchiai system, nor is payment part of the
republican system. Most kingdoms pay their,
members. ‘Britain used to pay its members,
and it is alleged that the law was never repealed,
and that payment could still be Claimed Bush
Boy: The Bulletin pays for accepted matter. First
item very poor; second an old Bulletin yarn,
which this paper reckons it told much better
W. : A faint attempt at rhyme pervades the first half-
mile of the poem, then Chaos supervenes... .John Mar-
tin : If a reward is payable for a dead rat, what price a
defunct Jenkins ?... .T.Q.R. : Declined. Reads like a
dubious imitation of Bret Harte E. M‘C. : Too old,
and, also, too remote... .Clan O’C. : Gave your poem to
dog. Dog not back since... .J.R.G. : Case none too
clear Australian : The idea of lowering prices by
having a debased sovereign for local currency has
been tried very often in many countries, and
failed badly. An honest silver currency works better
than a gold one that pretends to be what it isn’t
Long-Un : “Surveying” a graphic bit. For print....
Sphinx: Obviously an invention... .Crayon : We suppose
it’s a good story, but after reading it twice we don’t
understand what it’s all about... .Misere Corowa : Don’t
know any such rule, but it is a very common custom. ...
Temple C. : Rather heavy... ,J.A.P. : Shark verses long
and du11... . H.G. : Have you only just discovered that?
The point was made-much-of months ago.. ..Robt. B. :
Merely an amplification of a well-worn chestnut
Kodak : Humor strained and verse halting... . Kaponga :
You fail in both \ erse and prose H.S. : No good what-
ever.... Pro Bono: Hardly worth print.... Akinlem (or
something like that): “Strange Dream” devoid of
interest Adonis: Mere grandiloquent rubbish....
Yarrum : Would like to look at the ghost if not too
long Eyrom : No, thanks; we leave all that sort of
thing to the “religious” papers John Ridd : Shows
great promise, but the idea has been worn threadbare by
“ new woman ” writers. (2) It’s Gordian O.B.: Hardly
worth print..... Ajax : You’ve a horribly “ round-arm ”
style Waif: Not ill done, but not worth while.
....Fred P. : Sorry we couldn’t find out....Hoch-
kirch : Too far-fetched and elaborate... .Wal O. :
Nicely written, but falls rather flat- Bill: Both
humorous, but rather too crude for print... Tilwood :
Some pathos, but not skill enough F. Redcliffe : Not
enough in it J.T.8.: (1) N.S.W. is not the only Austral-
asian State with an Industrial Arbitration Court. (2) An
appeal from an award of the Industrial Arbitration Court
to the Full Court on any point of law is allowable....
The Bird: Too dead-birdy.... W.E. : We’ve dealt with
subject before... .Quandong : Great promise, but thought
is not clear in “ Two Loves.”... .Vag. : Hardly bright
enough... .Shucks : Ingenious, but out of our line....
Rip : Same thought treated thousands of times before
Old Salt; A good yarn, and you put pathos in it, but 192
lines couldn’t be spared for it in B Beans : Better to
have burnt the body; burial is an unclean habit
W. J.J. : Par. used ; verse too familiar in idea.... Unsuit-
able : Purples, 0.H., Sulphide, N.Q.8., J.P.C., N.P.C.,
M.0.R., W.J.C., R.P.O W.H.P. : Converteddrover
yarn has been worked out much more brightly before....
Uno : Nothing new in the lines.... Yerot Merchant: Just
under the mark... .N. Boori : Not this editor’s song....
J.D.M. : Reminiscences don’t strike us as interesting;
but you should be able to place them elsewhere.... L.
Chetwynd : Long rhyme about bookmakers out of our
way Jim Brown : Didactic verse is generally a failure.
....M. Cormao (M.L.) : Will print “Garden 0fW.”....
The Shadow : Very melodious. For print Dorothy:
“Impromptu” accepted H.N.V. : Will print..
F.O.W. :If from a boy of 12, quite remarkable. Perse-
vere W.G. : Your poem is, doubtless, “absolutely
original ”; we know no other like it... .Geebung : “ Bush-
man’s Grave” can’t be printed ; the comps., a tender-
hearted lot, would be blinded with tears... .Leonidas:
Verses show some skill, but none are quite up.. ..C.D.:
Too rocky E.E. : “ There are but two opportunities for
describing an incident—the day after and half-a-century
after.”
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Horace H. : Judging from samples, you aren’t likely to.
please us Kelm S. : A very old gag Jim K. : Ideas
dull, drawing labored and humorless.... E.N. : One may
serve as subject; other returned... .Henry T. : (8.G.)
Submitted to artist... .A.W. : Line prints better than
wash, but wash is affected by lots of people simply be-
cause they can’t draw—in line—or at all. All the
world wants to paint before it can -draw.... A. J.H. : Old
wheeze.. . .Jim D. : Neither on mark John C.T.,
W.P.Y., Tunny, S.A.R.G., R. de 8., W.F.C., Netherby,
A.D.M., R N. (Bris.) : Unavailable.
Twelve Months in Gaol.
N.S.W. Prison Comptroller-General’s report for
1901 is out, and there are good pickings in it.
(Why “ Comptroller,” any more than “M. le
Secretaire ” See or Crick ?) Some of them :
You can partly “take it out” now and partly pay.
After you have been “in ” for, say, a week, having been
sentenced to 40s. or a month, you can change your mind
and get out on paying the proportion that you have not
worked out. Or, if you can buy off half or any other por-
tion of the sentence, you may. Summary convictions
during the year totalled 10,986 ; three out of every four
of these went to gaol because they were too poor to buy
their liberty. In the year, 1204 bought off part of their
“ imprisonment in default.” -
The 72-2 per cent, of N.S.W. born people supplied 42-6
per cent, of the gaol population. But several of those
peacock-feathers can be pulled out, for pretty well all the
infants are N.S.W. born.
For the “crime” of being suspected of mental disease
nearly 500 people were received into the prisons. In an
unspecified but certainly great number of other cases the
prisoners’ only offence was ill-health. Two prisoners died
during the year in Bathurst gaol. Both were dying when
admitted. One had never been convicted before ; the
other only once. Three died in Maitland gaol—two
from heart disease, the other from effusion on the brain
following lead-poisoning. The first was, when admitted,
“ very bad,” the second “dying,” the third “bad.” At
Broken Hill three died—two of pneumonia, the third of
meningitis. They had two prior convictions among the
three ; and all were either “bad” or “dying” when
admitted on remand. These are typical cases. And
these three of the largest provincial towns in the State
have Govt.-supported hospitals. And this a civilised,
allegedly-Ohristian country !
The prisoners do a little ; not much. The average
gaol population is something over 1800. The remunera-
tive work, done chiefly for other State depts., calculated
at fair market rates, represented £15,373 not counting
cost of material. For the Prison Dept, the work was
reckoned to be worth £19,972. Tailoring, bootmaking,
matmaking, bookbinding, tinsmithing and marble-
working are the chief industries. The report is
apparently partly type-written and partly, printed in
gaol. It isn’t good work, but, for the purpose, quite good
enough. Some people who don’t know, and a few who
do but pretend they don’t, think you go to gaol to pick
oakum. Of £33,616, which is supposed to be the value of
all the work done in the “established” gaols, oakum-
picking represented only £l9.
For his ex. Bo’sun Rawson chiefly : In the last 10 years
there have been 22 hangings. Last year there were 3,
which is double the recent average. Since there
have been 651. In ’24-34 there were 308. llis Ex. has
come along 70 years too late to really enjoy himself.
There are 20,000 library-volumes among the prisons—
“ standard works of fiction by the best authors, in
addition to scientific and educational books.” Dickens,
Thackeray, and Scott are now permanently admitted.
Also, “if a prisoner desires an educational work, not of
an unreasonable character, and not in the general library,
it is purchased for him.” Also, you aren’t shaved in
prison now ; they' only clip you.
The Controller talks of some old acquaintances,
“ chronic offenders who hover on the borderland of in-
sanity.” There are two cases nearly ready for discharge :
“ One has been repeatedly convicted of gross sexual
crimes. The other has fits of maniacal rage which lead
him to the commission of murderous assaults. He has
already caused the death of one man in a quarrel, and,
what adds to his dangerous proclivities, is his idea that
he is immune from serious consequences.” A civilised
community would submit such men to a course of medical
treatment in a special asylum.
It would be interesting to have a return showing
the increase, or otherwise, of insanity since the new
system of “restricted associationin plain English,
solitary confinement without the dark cells —has been in
force. But, among so many of little account, such a
return is not here. Anyhow, the figures for the year are
appalling. Perhaps it is not the fault of the prison sys-
tem ; it may’ be that the police arrest, and on various
charges the courts sentence, an extraordinary number of
insane persons. Either way it is bad enough. In 12
months 126 prisoners were put under observation, apart
from the 366 who were charged with being insane. Of
the 126 it is alleged that 83 showed symptoms of
insanity on reception, and 30 inside a month.
Here is a typical case, No. 4910 in the records :
A seaman, foreigner, charged with maliciously
wounding with intent to murder ; convicted 3(>/9/’01;
sentenced to death, but sent ence Commuted to imprison-
ment for life ; mental condition on admission, doubtful,
with symptoms of insanity ; form of insanity, delusive ;
at the end of the year still in prison, certified as insane.
It looks very much as though we put a lunatic upon his
trial and sentenced him todeath. There is a worse case :
A man, known to have been previously insane, maniacal
on reception, was sentenced to death, a.terwnrds com-
muted to imprisonment for 14 years ; he, too, is certified
as insane. Cause of insanity is more or less guessed at in
about half the cases. Love occurs once in the list.
Lucky fellow, he cooled off rapidly ; within 48 hours he
was all right.
The cost of it all varies. It is heavier now than it was ;
latterly the lighting of all occupied cells has added
to it. Per average prisoner, the total has gone from
£47 15s. lid. in ’95 to £55 Is. 3d. in 'Ol. Apart- from
Biloela, Goulburn shows the lowest figure for the year
—£43 6s. Darlinghurst costs £49 45., Parramatta
£52 10s. Biloela stands alone, £29 4s. But here one
officer serves for 7J prisoners ; at Bernina (£127 45.) the
proportion is Ito I'7. Some of the country gaols dwarf
even this small figure. In Mudgee gaol there were on the
average three prisoners, kept by four officers, at an
average cost per head of £228 4s. !
TVffilbonrne Leader, of June 21, pub-
lished a picture of the graves of Australian cohen-
tingenters at Naaupoort, S’Africa, and in tho
een 4 re Q f eac h WO oden cross marking a grave
appears a symbol, which, whatever it may be
nT4nt for bears a most unfortunate -semblance
to the dollar-sign, «n>. ± 110 iAiraign i>y aoiiar .


A FREE VETERINARY BOOK.
Amost useful Veterinary Book is attached
to every bottle of Condy’s Fluid. This Book
contains instructions for curing most of the
ailments and accidents affecting Horses,
Dogs, Sheep, Cattle and Poultry.
In this Book eminent Veterinary Sur-
geons recommend Condy’s Fluid, as a
. certain cure for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs,
Broken Knees, Grease, Thrush and
Cracked Heels in Horses.—Scab, Foot
Rot, Fly, etc., in Sheep.—Hoove, Foul in
the Foot, Wounds and Sores in Cattle.
Condy’s Fluid is made by Condy &
Mitchell, Ltd., of 65, Goswell Road,
London, England, and is sold by all
Chemists and Stores. Beware of Colonial
Substitutes. Insist on having Condy’s Fluid.
V.
GrO TO ITKT.JL.-
IGOLAN l> for Prelty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
hats. hats. hats.
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fitted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Important Announcement to our City and Countr y
Constituents.
WALTER BRAPLCV * CO.,
Furniture and .Fine Art A uctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 321 Georgs Surest, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION &. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted >/
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the. Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
u
§9
K
V
WH
S
SIMPSON’S JUMP-SEAT SULKIES.
Good Work,
Lowest Price.
Cash Only,
SIDNEY SIMPSON, Coachbuilder, 73 KING ST., NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
From Sydney Telegraph :
In answer to a question, Mr. Reid said he did not think
Freetrade would cure sweating.
Our oath, no ! j
Who is game to re-submit to N.S.W. Le£.
Assembly David Buchanan’s old motion con-
demnatory of the local use of Imperial titles ? A
division list would be interesting at the present
stage.
Sydney D.T. extract, July 14 :
Mr. John See declared that while his Government had
the confidence of the British creditor they would go on
building railways.
Once Australian Ministers were supposed to rely
on the confidence of Parliament. Now the British
creditor is the openly acknowledged boss.
At the Irish Home Rule meeting in
Sydney, the other night, Holman was on the
platform, and was loudly called for by the audi-
ence, but he wasn’t allowed to speak by those in
charge. They were, doubtless, afraid he’d say
something which would displease Mr. Chamber-
lain.
Whether or not Lord Hopetoun is made
Commonwealth High Commissioner, underground
engineering to make some such business cypher
Commissioner is in full local swing. The idea,
apparently, is that if an exalted do-nothing be
given the billet the present batch of State Agents-
General will retain their jobs.
Brisbane Telegraph lately alleged that it
was a big mistake importing no Jap * and no
Kanaka women, as we thereby incur the risk of
raising a half-caste population. Papers like the
Telegraph would cure the half-caste trouble by
filling the land with Japs and Kanakas, and
getting rid of the whites altogether.
JOE’S CITY.
YOUNG WOMAN: “ Papa, was Jo-hannesburg
called after Mr. Chamberlain?”
PAPA (a well-crusted Tory): “No, of course not.
Why?”
Y.W.: “ Well, you know, he seemed to have a
great interest in it.”
P. (sharply): “Hold-your tongue—what do you
women know of politics!”
Federal Hansard should be brought into
line with N.S.W. Hansard (the fairest and most
uncompromising in Australia). N.S.W. members
are not allowed to doctor up their speeches in
proof, though a “ correction ” will be made on the
written request of a member—occasionally even
when the correction is incorrect.
The President of S.A. Marine Board, who
controls 150 men and manages a department with
a revenue of £30,000 annually, receives the princely
salary.of £5O a year. Economy is taking a firm
hold of the country, and rather than submit to
extra taxation the rich people will retrench or
reduce every officer in the public service.
Premier Jenkins has stuck in household
suffrage at the tail-end of his policy as presented
to S.A. Parliament, but it is evident lie does not
intend to fight the matter. His own Attorney-
General (Gordon) is strongly opposed to the re-
form, which he fought vigorously in the Council
when Kingston sent the Bill up to that House.
King Edward lately sent a message to the
h ijians, recommending them to obey the authori-
ties, and pay their taxes regularly. Cold comfort!
I he natives are heavily taxed and have lost their
< ?;!j interest in life; all they get in return is the
Bible and the whisky bottle. When they foolishly
parted with their country, Thakombau sold his
kingdom for a mess of pottage—a pension and a
yacht.
Wanted to know, where are all these
Queensland syndicate railways and Adelaide
tramways which were to find work for the unem-
ployed this winter. If the Iron Bonus Bill had
passed the Lithgow iron co. would have had to set
to work for fear sOme other concern would get
ahead of it and capture the bonus. But no other
co. can jump these syndicate-railway and tramway
claims for a certain number of years, and the
unemployed are still waiting.
The Boer war was waged by Bull solely in
the interests of Christianity, cleanliness and the
colored races. How the colored races are likely
to fare is shown early in the day by a 7th July
cable to the- effect that a strike of “ boys ” engaged
on Rand mines has been squelched by the arrest
an< * gaoling of the chiefs responsible for calling out
™ ie k°y S- ” The “boys” wanted a restoration of
old rates of pay,” and have been wiped out by
Lawnorder, which means bosses’ orders backed by
law. J
Queensland Parliament opened with a
speech which stated that the Ministry was sorry
the King was ill, was sorry about the drought,
that it proposed to reduce salaries, and increase
the totalisator percentage, and that after letting
the deficits mount up for two years till they
reached nearly £1,000,000, it was intended to
impose a small income-tax, which will fill about
one-fourth of the great gap. Also the speech ex-
pressed a hope that the King would get better
soon, and that the drought would break up before
long. A Workmen’s Compensation Bill is at the
extreme tail of the programme where there is no
hope that it will be reached.
Alfred Deakin found something wildly
ludicrous in the fact that a man wrote to him
complaining that he couldn’t get a billet in Vic.
Railway Department
and offering to take
on the Governor-
Generalship. Afterall,
what has Mr. Deakin
got to laugh at ? The
man who wrote the
letter may be a fool,
but it isn’t proved
against him ; yet if the
Imperial Government
selects an approved
fool, and sends him to
act as Governor-
General, Alfred will
join the rest in
bowing the knee
to the gilded calf.
If A. Deakin were
possessed of a sense
of humor, the ludic-
rousness of this man’s
offer would appear a
very mild joke beside
the practice of opening
our mouths, and shut-
ting our eyes, and
taking what Provi-
dence, in the shape of
John Bull, cares to send
us. :
Just as well to write
your own election address
yourself—if you can. At
a recent bye-election the
Govt, candidate had sent
out an address, in which
he said he thought that
Q. electoral laws should be
assimilated to the Federal
franchise, viz.—one adult, one
vote. Asked on the platform
did he think women ought to have the right to
vote, he replied in the negative, to the huge de-
light of his opponents. Next day the address was
withdrawn.
Why not abolish State Governors ? Melb.
Age quotes figures—so far unchallenged, and
seemingly unchallengeable—which shows this
suffering country to be paying, directly and
indirectly, over £lOO,OOO a year for imported
figureheads. Nobody supposes Victorians would _
worry much if they had to open their own bazaars
and bridges, yet tbeir Governor costs them more
than the thousands saved by reducing Parliament
—and, Heaven knows, enough fuss has .been made
over that.
The extent to which the views of S.A.
Assembly have been changed as a result of the
recent election is shown by the fact that not only
did the Chief Secretary’ (Premier Jenkins) let a
Gpvt. ■ contract to a Chinaman in’ the Northern
Territory,’but that when attention was called' to
the fact he justified his action on the ground that
the Celestial’s tender was less than that of his
European competitor. 'No wonder the’ Tory
Register adjures Opposition leader Darling to
kbep Jenkins in office.
THE SECRET OF ENGLAND'S GREATNESS:
OBSERVE THE LION’S WINK!
Poor old Henry Dobson is in a pitiable
plight. He sits on the Govt, side in the Senate,
and when the Freetraders whistle to him he goes
over and gets an encouraging “good dog”—or
words to that effect —from Clemons. Then
O’Connor cracks the whip, and Dobson gets to
heel again, only to be cursed by Clemons. And
so it goes on day by day, until alternately called
and cursed by both sides, Dobson is politically
dead. Neither party will shelter him at next
election, and there is no Federal billet for Dobson.
Curious extract from a pastoralist’s letter
in Brisbane Courier :
The large expenditure of loan-funds has caused cen-
tralisation of population, and, since there is now a
cessation of borrowing by the State, the problem con-
fronts us as to how to best equalise the population
between town and country.
Queensland has about trebled its loan expenditure
since 1894, yet there are lots of people there who
have a vague idea that the State has given up
borrowing. Also there are lots of people with the
same delusion in all the other States.
The mild Senator Dobson of Tasmania
voted for a reduction of the duty on cement
owing, he said, to the surprising and convincing
facts and figures supplied by Freetrad rs. If Dobson
had taken the trouble to look up the said facts
and figures in the official publications he would
probably have found that there was no truth in
any of them. That is where the beaming,
credulous Dobson falls in. He listens in a dazed
frame of mind to the snake-yarns of Munchausen
the importer, and then gives his vote like one in
a dream.
Premier See promises the N.S. W. churches
exemption from sewerage and water-rates —an
exemption already allowed to religious charities,
and it is to be claimed next for Sunday schools.
One of the reasons why so many municipal
councils and municipal boards are in chronic
difficulties in N.S.W. is that Govt, insists, not
only on being a deadhead itself, but on giving
away “paper ”to all with a pull. The churches
united to squeeze the Govt, on this point (they
can’t unite on anything else) and being such
sturdy beggars got what they wanted.
Apropos the mania which some misguided
Laborites have for cutting down salaries. English
Laborites set a good example in connection with
their M.’sP., even though thev have to pay them
out of their own pockets. Burt, the oldest of
them, gets £4OO a year and numerous “ perks, ” in-
cluding a free house. Fenwick draws £3OO and
travelling expenses ; Pickard and Abraham £350
as miners’ secretaries. The Miners’ Federation
has decided to pay that sum and fares to any other
of its members who may be elected, in addition to
any salary they may be drawing as branch secre-
taries, etc. John Burns, who, however, hasn’t a
union at his back, is guaranteed £250, but hasn’t
always got it.
There are 1063 miles of railway to be con-
structed to finish the Adelaide-Port Darwin
transcontinental line. The proposal, put forward
by the little Sydney clique which wants to fix the
Federal capital at Canoblas, so that Sydney may
annex all the trade, is to carry the existing
Northern Territory line from its present terminus
at Pine Greek —not southward to Adelaide as
originally proposed, but S.E. to Bourke (N.S. W.),
a distance of 1599 miles. As S.A. would lose the
trade of the Territory it has nursed so long, and
its 688 miles of completed line would be left on
its hands, most of it as a mere white elephant ;
and at the same time it would have to pay its
share of the proposed new Federal line to take
the Territory trade to Sydney, it is no wonder
that the land-grant idea has taken some hold in
Adelaide. Unless the Federal Parliament declares
definitely for the transcontinental line on the
short, straight route originally proposed, and
repudiates all connection with the 1599-mile devia-
tion, the great syndicate disaster may yet coine to
pass.
Seddon’s wild talk about an open
door for English products in Maoriland
boiled down in the end to a sorrowful
little proposal to admit English goods at
3 per cent, less duty than those of foreign
States. Seddon says he is greatly dis-
appointed because the British Govern-
ment has dropped the preferential-trade
idea. The Government probably thought
Maoriland was prepared to cut down its
duties to the level of the Dutch tariff, or
the old Kruger tariff in the Transvaal, or
to give from 12J to 25 per cent, prefer-
ence, as Canada does, and the 3 per cent,
offer only made it mad.
The proposal of Arthur Griffith,
M.L.A., to abolish N.S.W. Upper
House, which comes on for hearing at
some indefinite date depending mostly
on the congestion of business, deserves
success. Nobody wants an Upper
House; it began as a compromise and a
necessary evil, and it grew from that to
be a habit, a tradition, and a fetish.
England started with one House ; it gob
two when some kind of popular repre-
sentation began and the barons shud-
dered at sitting along with the common
people. They have continued to shudder
ever since. Britain’s American colonies
started with one House; in most cases
it was nominated by the King, and when
the people began to elect representatives,
they were put in a separate House be-
cause the King’s nominees couldn’t get on
with them. The beginning was always
one House of a privileged class. The
second House was added to represent the
people, but the first was retained because
the idea still lingered that there existed a privi-
leged class which should have a House to itself.
N.S. W. has no privileged class, but from force of
habit it keeps an Upper House in which to put
the thing that has no existence.
Dunedin (M.L.) Star, a rabid Jingo some
few short weeks ago, now solemnly remarks that
“ officially and socially, Botha, De la Rey, and
other leading men in the late Republics would
receive in Maoriland a warm welcome and every
consideration.” And not a word about a free
bath ! Apparently all the alleged lying, thiev-
ing, murdering, dirty, ignorant, illiterate Boers
have been killed off. How considerate of
Providence to separate the wheat from the chaff
so that the haughty and much-tubbed Briton
might mingle with the remnant on terms of
equality !
How characteristic of the neglect of the
finances that, during N.S. W. debate on the Audit
Bill, only a bare quorum has been kept! What
is partly the matter with the audit, largely
accounting for this neglect, is that, even though
it may be good enough as an audit, its results are
not expressed in terms intelligible to the average
M.P., who knows nothing of figures and will not
try to learn. Auditor-General Rennie’s reports
and memoranda have been written not for the lay
politician and the public, but for financiers, and
have been heavy reading even at that; and that
wants changing. They want translating as
Statistician Coghlan translates the other things
that he finds out.
Edmund Barton and Bigjohn Forrest play
lone and opposing hands in London. Rival
speeches last week: —
Barton. Forrest.
An Imperial Zollverein Great Britain’s trade re
upon the basis of freedom lations with other nations
of exchange, is at present were most unsatisfactory,
impossible, since it must in- for while foreigners re-
evitably cripple many of the ceived everything, they con-
self-governing parts of the ceded little. The Empire
Empire. Australia, for in- ought to pull more together,
stance, would be unable to and if anyone was bound to
bear the burden of govern- suffer it ought to be the
ment without so grinding a foreigners,
load of direct taxation as
would prevent internal de-
velopment.
“ Fair Play ” writes from Maoriland :
Of all the rose-colored reports I have read for years,
commend me to the Victorian Labor Commission’s report
on the “prosperity” of Maoriland. Of course, we must
allow for the genial recollections of a pleasant trip
through a picturesque country, but there let us halt.
Coming to facts : Some few months before these gentle-
men gave their report, a hundred or more men were dis-
charged from work in the King oountry, which work
largely partook of the nature of relief. The relieving
officers of the various Charitable Aid Boards could give
some very startling figures bearing on the Commission’s
report. As to the gumfields, virtually, what are they ?
The “ Poorhouse of Maoriland” is not really an uncalled-
for title. For the most part, those employed in the
industry are the real “ unemployed ” of the North Island,
and the life is anything but a picnic. The price of gum
and the wages made here form a very unfavorable com-
parison with the Commission’s report—£Bo a ton, and 255.
per week is a good average. The very next issue of the
Auckland Weekly News after these gentlemen’s report
appeared, announced that the M.L. Govt, was having
certain lands surveyed for clearing purposes, in order to.
give work to the unemployed. Yet the Vic. Commis-
sioners were gulled into believing that there were no un-
employed.
♦
THE OFFER A LIMITED ONE.
It has been said of the vast library of the British
Museum that the twenty thousand volumes kept in the
reading-room for current reference contain all that is
worth reading in the two million volumes in the galleries.
And if the “ Encyclopaedia Britannica ” may be regarded
as in some sort a second distillation of the whole, it would
be the height of ingenuousness to attempt to give in a
few words that which should fairly represent the
“Encyclopaedia.” In so small a space little more can be
dona than to call to mind the form and typography of the
pages. One turns instinctively to the “ Encyclopaedia
Br.tannica ” when some urgent question is to be answered,
but it is an error to think of it only as a remedy in
moments of emergency. It is withal a book to read—to read
easily—for the mere pleasure of hearing a tale well told :
the delight we feel, even at our -busiest-moments, in
following the lead of an able mind. The “ Encyclopaedia
Britannica.” is not a lexicon, it is neither dull nor
categorical; its comfortable pages, ful.l of matured
thought, are for all men’s common use. There is not a
trace of pedantry in its tone : the great men of our day
wrote it, and every one of them was proud to do his best
in such goodly company. This is the work the Daily
Mail is now offering residents of this State upon such
favorable terms ; ss. first payment and less than sixpence
a day in monthly instalments. The offer is a limited
one.


Tshe
»STEINWAY
PIANO
Used by Royalty.
SOLE
AGENTS
PALING'S.
K6e STEINWAY PIANO
Is beyond question tbe Best Piano tbat
Has ever been manufactured.
It is tbe outcome of brains, energy,
and mecbanical skill of tbe bigbest
order.
Tbe Steinway Patents produce re-
markably pure tone quality, great
delicacy of toucb, and extreme dura-
bility.
It is tbe most expensive Piano made,
but tben —IT’S THE BEST.
No further argument needed.
Catalogues and Price Lists Free.
Old Pianos taken in Exchange.
W. H. PALING CO., Ltd
338 George Street, Sydney,
Brisbane and Newcastle,
1. For MIXED PAINTS, good quality, 4*d.
per lb.
2. For DRY COLORS, VARNISHES, BRUSH-
WARE—Cheapest in Sydney.
3. For PICTURE MOULDINGS, FRAMES,
MOUNTS, PICTURES, OLEOGRAPHS,
SLIPS, and all Amateur's Requirements.
4. For KOH-I-NOOR SIGN LETTERS, in
Copper and Steel; sizes—s, 10, 12, 15 and
20in.
5. For WINDOW ADVERTISING LETTERS
in Brass, Copper or Aluminium—
TRY THE
KOH-I-NOOR AGENCY,
309 George-St., Sydney .
Telephone 744.
VITADATIO
has cured another sufferer who had been a
martyr to Constipation and Liver Complaint
for 20 years.
MR. BATH’S EXPERIENCE MAY BE REPEATED IN
YOUR CASE.
Mr. W. H. Bath, who has been a member and office-
bearer of Wesley Church, during the last 20 years, and
whose address is 102 Lygon-street, Carlton, Melbourne,
writes as follows : —“ I suffered during the last 20 years
from the effects of liver complaint and constipation. I
tried almost everything that was advertised to cure my
complaint, and at times consulted doctors. The medicines
all failed to cure me, and the doctors’ treatment did me
very, little good. I began to despair; but my wife,
hearing from a relative about the wonderful curative
properties of VITADATIO, how it cured many people in
New Zealand, urged me to try it. I had been laid up for
some time from the effects of a bad turn eight months
ago. My wife called upon the agent, Mr. Palmer, and he
persuaded her to take a bottle. It acted like a charm ; I
was able to return to my work before I had finished it.
I continued using it, taking five more bottles, and I am
thankful to say I have quite regained my long-lost health.
I will be pleased to answer any enquiries. Thanking you
for your medicine, and wishing you success.—l remain,
yours faithfully,
W. H. BATH.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The Price of Medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
THE “ NATURAL ” MEMORY SYSTEM.
SIMPLE, PRACTICAL, SCIENTIFIC.
TAUGHT BY POST, £1 1/-
Pupils coached all Exams. 1EP“199 Q.V. Markets., Syd.
Neuralgia is responsible . . .
for a great number of the careworn
faces so frequently met with both
in the city and country. All
neuralgic pains and headaches can
be speedily removed by taking
Newman’s SPECIAL NEURALGIA POWDER, 2/-
By post, 2/2.
NEWMAN, CHEMIST, 82 King-street, Sydney.
A novel course is recommended by the
Vic. Royal Commission which has been going
into Melbourne University affairs. The Commis-
sion attaches the final responsibility for the huge
Dickson defalcations to the Govt, for allowing an
egregiously lax system of audit, which seems to
have winked even at the loss of important docu-
ments bearing upon the University finances; and
considers that the Govt, should pay up the whole
amount of the steals, and, if practicable, get back
to the source of things by depriving the former
audit commissioners of portions of the pensions
they recently settled down to enjoy. Also, the
Commission has an idea that it wouldn’t be
entirely out of harmony with its general plan for
putting matters square to deprive quondam Univ.-
Registrar A’Beckett of the £350 a year, retiring
allowance, made to him by the Council, because
he allowed accountant Dickson to have the whole
run of the University business, and (innocently
enough) borrowed money from that felonious
person at frequent intervals. It’s an awkwardly
honest kind of Royal Commission, and would be
invaluable as a reporting body on the finances of
the different States.
RAMEY'S MEDIOATOR*
For the Treatment of Catarrh, Hay Fever,
Bronchitis, Influenza, Catarrhal
Deafness, etc.
Medicator, with complete treat-
ment, only 101-, post free.
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY
229,231 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE. ,
New Zealand Fire & Marine
Insurance Company.
SHAREHOLDERS in the above Company are
hereby notified that a Dividend of 2s. per
share for the half-year ended 31st May last is now
payable at the Company’s Office, 81 Pitt-street.
J. A. MINNETT, Manager.
ira
o
p
p
o
s
I
T
£
G
P
6
p
A
T
T
E
R
N
S
F
R
E
E
Art is
a
Necessity
of Life.
42/ -
We are
Artists
in
Tailoring,
LONDON TAILORING DEPOT.
ME.LB. F. S. Meyers, Manager,
FROM US
TO
YOU
:4
y
.
m
THE
CALLAGHAN
BOOT,
FOR MEN
POST FREE
DUTY FREE
NO
RISK
IN
FIT!
23/6
The CALLAGHAN Tan
WILLOW CALF Lace
BOOT, with made-to-order
appearance, whole goloshed,
fast color eyelets, in pointed
or medium toes,
Or, a pair delivered prepaid to'
any address in the Common-
wealth upon receipt of
24/6
The same style of Boot, in Black
Calf, delivered, prepaid
23/6
With these Boots you will have better appearing
and more comfortable feet, and make your money go
from twice to three times as far. If you live at a
distance our thoroughly systematised Mail Order Depart-
ment will fit you to your perfect satisfaction, or return your
money. We want distant customers to be as pleased as_
those in town. State size of boot worn, and shape of toes desired.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 ceorce st., stone*.


Banking, Public Companies, &o.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
&
&
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
okt-s.-w.
(Ijont depiete o>n |. Qo., Qtd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
174 CASTLEKEAGH ST., *7 4
' SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
•—TIIIS^
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIIVIITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,491,989.
Policies issued 85,372 —assuring £26,085,348.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,576,850.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses —equitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
The Bank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director -JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... ... ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250 900 ... £350.000
Tb« Trustees, CxcctifcorS,
AND
Agtocy Coii?paoy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) ... ... £BB5B 7 3
Amount; at Credit of Estates. Trusts,
and Clients, 30th June, 1901 ... £6,388,976 5 3
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq, ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORItOWMAN, Manager.
FItEDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manage!
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Roval Bank of Queensland
J hi MIT Ml).
CAPITAL PAID-UP £423,000
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 209,581
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 54,000
£686,581
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Knwp. D.. Day. Asst. Mngr., W . B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHUBOH LANE.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders
2,000,000
500,000
Total Capital
.. £2,500,000
Ocean
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. htd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Direstors —Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Oo.), Hon. John See, Lt.-001. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clynk ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Fari.anh ; Brisbane, K. Wilson; Perth, A. W.
Farquijar.
J J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australia,
131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £15,000, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties,
and £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
THE
Crry
UFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
Established 1879.
HEAD OFFICE:
Intersection HUNTER, BLIGH and CASTLEREAGH
STREETS, SYDNEY.
The CITV MUTUAL LIFE is generally
recognised as the most liberal and pro-
gressive institution of its kind in Austra-
lasia. It retains on its books a larger
proportion of business than any other
Life Ofhce doing business in these States.
CEO. CROWLEY,
General Manager.
Shipping.
HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBO URNE "i
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL J
Leura, Saturday, July 19, 2 p.m.
■Gabo, Tuesday, July 22, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, July 26, 2 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Gabo, Tuesday, August 4, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Gabo, Tuesday, August 4, 5 p.m.
(No Transhipment.)
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Peregrine, Saturday, July 19, 2 p.m.
• Konoowarra, Tuesday, July 22,5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, July 26, 2 p.m.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Peregrine, Saturday, July 19, 2 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, July 26, 2 p.m.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
WHITE STAR LINE
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
MEDIC, to Sail on or about 25th JULY.
AERIC, SUEYIC, PERSIC, and RUNIC
to follow.
FARES-Capetown .. .. £l6 16 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 27 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 33 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
Huddart, Parker & Go’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, lIOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Hates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
cr jvcv
LIKTE
via
San Francisco,
California.
SPLENDID NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERB,
SIERRA
SONOMA
VENTURA
Over 6000 Tons each.
8000 H.P.
Length, 425 feet,
Passengers booked through to American, Canadian and
European centres at current rates.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts. SYDNEY.
time table.
THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
Queensland Smelting Campy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
TDUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. ... .. 2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. „ .. .. 1,285,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... « .. 2,000,000 0 0
Total 5,285,000.0 0
Directors:
Hon. Citas. K. Mackellar, M.L.0., President
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.O.
Senator James Thomas Walker.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L 0.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Auditors:
A. G. Milson, Esq. Harrington Palmer, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
T/ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of .610 or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
FOR ACETYLENE GAS
“ WE ARE
THE PEOPLE.”
Over 300 of our Reliable
Acetylene Gas Genera-
tors in daily use, and all
giving satisfaction.
We also supply Table,
Portable, Street, and
other Lamps for Acety-
lene Gas and all accesso-
ries.
We carry large stocks of
Carbide of Calcium.
Send for our No. 56
Acetylene Gas Catalogue
Martin’s Advance Acetylene Table Lamp. Price £1 7s. 6d.
James MARTIN & CO.,
161 Clarence Street,
Nr. King-st.,Sydney.
IP®
SLATERS
8 ®
1 BAS INCH ALL S^ n EC
ACKNOWLEDGED by both the Press and
the Public to be the Finest Organisation
of Male and Female Detective Talent in the
World for Private Inquiries. Representatives in
every town on earth. Consultations free.
HENRY SLATER, Manager,
1 Basinghall-street, London, England.
Cables, “ Distance, ” London.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK :
By Sixty Bulletin writers. Cloth, 300 pages ;
price, 4s. 6d. ; postage, 6d.
SOLE DISTRIBUTING AGENTS l
EDWARDS, DUNLOP & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
KT. D. L.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
*Twin-screw steamer.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
Interstate First Class Return Tickets are now available
for Return by the Steamers of the P. and 0., Orient
Pacific, or M.M. Co.’s.
TO SINGAPORE,
Via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW
GUINEA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. TANGLIIM, 23rd JULY,
And Regularly Thereafter.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
GANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ ALL-RED ” ROUTE.
Aorapgi, ACigCist 11.
Moai)a, September 8.
CHEAPEST AND MOST ATTRACTIVE ROUTE
TO LONDON.
Via Brisbane or New Zealand, Fiji,
Honolulu and Victoria.
Rates: Saloon, £35 to £66.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
DEAFNESS.
In addition to the inconvenience inherent in the
infirmity itself, DEAFNESS has a marked influence on
the Mental Development of the individual, when the
latter has been attacked by it in youth.
For a long time DEAFNESS and CHRONIC AFFEC-
TIONS OF THE EAR have been considered almost
incurable, but recently a very simple means has been
found in the ELECTRICON to successfully apply
METALLIC GALVANIC ELECTRICITY direct to the
Ears, PERMANENTLY CURING DEAFNESS, and com-
pletely banishing all distressing head noises.
Those who are interested in the subject would do
well to read the complete description of this method of
treatment in the “ Journal for the Deaf,” published by the
R. VERNON COY.,
60, 64 Hunter-street, Sydney,
and sent FREE to anyone asking for it.
Shipping,
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE >
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
7
S.S. Warrego ;
Friday, July 18.
S.S. Marloo
(from Melbourne),
Tuesday, July 22.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S.lnnamincka,Sat. July 19.
S.S. Warrego, Sat., July 26.
S.S. Adelaide, Sat., August 2.
Jtest and Cheapest ltoute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after th
first Port between Melbourne and Oairns with the
steamers of the A.U.S.N. 00. and Howard Smith 00.,
Ld. For Adelaide and W.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. 00. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. 8. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
A. U. S. IN. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOIfTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Maokay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Twice weekly, via Bris-
bane, Maryborough, and Bundaberg.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
via MELBOURNE—Fortnightly.
Passenger A ccotntnodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., Agents, 10 Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
D AND Q COMPANY’S
" ' ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B to £/7
Ditto Ditto Return, £66 to £ll5
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific,
Messageries Mari times and N.D.L. Steamers having room.
EDWARD TRELAWNY,
63 Pitt-street. Superintendent in Australia.
Me.ssageries Maritime^
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and POUT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
rASSBiiNUIiKB DOOKeu iju r>umuay, muia, uuma,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meat
the passengers for London and give them every assistanoa
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and 0.,
Orient Pacific and N.D.L. steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
“E. AND A.” LINE.
. . TO . .
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with EVERY CON-
VENIENCE FOR TROPICAL TRAVELLING.
Through bookings to points in Canada, United States
of America and Europe at special rates.
Doctor and Stewardess carried.
Lowest Fares and Freights.
For further information apply to
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.,
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
SMOKE . .
THE
GBD
INSIST
having this Brand
and no other.
231
Australian Depot:
CLARCNCC STR€€T,
SY33JXTEY.


“ Melb.” : Pastor Fitchett has made a
little pile out of the Simultaneous Mission. His
Southern Cross went off every week like water
poured on thirsty sand with its verbatim reports
and graphic pictures. Then he bound all up in a
Souvenir, and that has been hot cake too. I
can’t get one.
Publications.
you
of d
&
Allan's
Australian music Books
s>*>
<o^
4?
P°
°<*
Sold by an Music Sellers in Australasia.
Allan a Co. p™. ltd.. 276-278 collins Melbourne
TO HORSE-MASTERS.
NOW READY.
The Highly Instructive Book,
“AUSTRALIAN HORSES FROM
PADDOCK TO PARK ”
By D. McGILLIVRAY
(The Celebrated Australian Horse Taming, Riding,
and Driving Expert).
A TREATISE on the Scientific Handling, Breaking,
Educating, and the General Management of Horses,
teaching the Author’s wonderful methods of completely
subduing the most savage animals living: in a few
minutes, with upwards of 105 splendid illustrations
obtained by instantaneous photography whilst he was
at work upon the wild and raw material.
Obtainable from the following Agents :
Sydney—Messrs. Wm. Brooks & Co. Ltd., 17
Castlereagh-street.
Brisbane —Messrs. Wm. Brooks & Co. Ltd.
Gunnedah, N.S.W. —Messrs. Bacon & Co.
Price, 11s.—post free.
20% discount allowed on large orders.
NOW READY.
“BUSHMAN .»<<
BUCCANEER”
Illustrated
HARRY MORANT:
(OP THE
Bushveldt
Carbineers)
HIS ’VCNTURCS
ANP V€RS€S
By FRANK RBNAR.
The History, Verses and Correspondence of
“The Breaker.”
PRICE ONE SHILLING
POSTAGE ONE PENNY. All Booksellers.
Wholesale: Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney.
Retail: “Bulletin” Newspaper Co. Ltd., Sydney.
PHOTOS
Models from Life, Beautiful Stereo-
scopies, etc. List with 100 Minia-
ture and 3 Cabinet size photos.
ss. P.O.C. or stamps.
8. REGKNACEL NACHF, Munich, 1 Brleffaoh, Germany.
Ask your music-seller for
FREDERIC H. COWEN’S
Beautiful Song,
The Mission of a Rose
Sung with the greatest success by
Mias A.MY CASTLES.
The Illustrated London News says : “ It is a gem.”
“Bells at Sunset. 77
This charming composition for the Piano by
W S. ROCKSTRO, is now in stock, and can >e
supplied by all Music Dealers.
W. PAXTON & CO., Publishers,
London, Melbourne.
The DAISY SERIES of Pianoforte Albums. The most
popular books for young players ever published.
Castro’s Last Sacrament
By ALBERT DORRINGTON. 4s 6d.
CAPILLA
HAIR
TONIC
The Hair Renewer of the Age.
All Chemists. 2/6 per bottle.
W. RICHARDS, Proprietor,
16- Pitt Street; Sydney,
KIN
2h.p. to lOOh.p.
MARINE OIL ENGINES.
Launches built 20ft. to 80ft. overall.
WITH THE KlNtf ENGINE —ONE LEViiR CONTROLS THE WHOLE.
Noiseless Uuderwater . . .
Exhaust.
Perfect Gas Generator.
Double Cylinder.
Automatic Oil Feed.
Simple Electric Ignition
with Dynamo.
J. F.
Telephone 2671.
McDermott & co A-kt
37 MARKET STREET, SYOWBY.
MELL
FOR INFANTS FOOD AND INVALIDS.
Is adapted for use from birth.
Send for Pamphlet and Samples to GOLLIN & CO., 562-4, Bourke Street, Melbourne.
50, Clarence Street, Sydney; Grenfell Street, Adelaide ; and Wellington.
Mellin’s Food Company for Australia and New Zealand, Ltd., 56, Cannon Street, London, Engf.
’S
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
BY SIXTY BULLETIN WRITERS.
CLOTH, 300 PAGES. *
PRICE, 4s. 6d.; POSTAGE 6d.
Sole Distributing Agents—
Edwards , Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
TT °r* ■«
SPOOISTBE’S
m m «
fCrr-'-
SPOONERS
& m %
IWTENT LEATHER BOOTS
' GLAZED HI OS M
£,»»«##<u*.)# #*»»<!
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
33 EVERY MAN
SUFFERING from DEBILITY and WEAKNESS should
send for a valuable Pamphlet explaining how all
Nervous and Organic Derangements may be success-
fully treated without stomach medication. The method
is easy and pleasant, and will effect a perfect and per-
manent cure. Sent in a plain sealed envelope free of
charge. E. NORTON, 59 &60 Chancery Lane, London,
m Eng. Over 30 years’ continuous success. g
RUPTURE
CURED
without
operation or pain,
Threw away
your Trail.
no detention from work, or depend-
ence upon Trusses. The only
humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
Treatise No. io. Address:
SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C.S., ENG.,
Cor Russell a. Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address.—L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
IT IS INFALLIBLE.
Electricity is tlie life of the body, and when your system bas very little electri-
city, it certainly cannot respond to the demands made upon it. Restore tne electrical
energy, and you restore your vigour. The only way to do this is to pump a constant
vitalising stream of electricity into the weakened human storage batteries until
they are able to again show their force, and take up their work. To do this, you
must have an appliance that will carry a continuous and powerful
current of this unseen force into your body for several hours at
a time. Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt is the only appliance to
be had which possesses these important requirements. After your
family physician gives yon up, it cures LAME BACK, INDIGESTION, RHEU-
MATISM, DYSPEPSIA, ANAEMIA, SCIATICA, assists Rupture, and restores the
body to its full and normal vigour. It is endorsed by thousands.
DR. M C LAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT
Pours the warming, soothing energy into the body for hours at a time, while you are
sleeping. It fills every nerve, tissue, and organ with its life-giving force, and after
you have worn it during the night you arise in the morning feeling a sense of ela-
tion and energy that you have been a stranger to for a long time. Apply it night
after night, and in a short time yon begin to notice the symptoms of your weakness
disappearing as if by magic. Not necessary to use DRUGS.
run
Si
as
$
\\
! •« i
\
SSI?
Unable to Work.
Galston,
_ ~ T v.l- June 19th, ’O2.
The Dr. McLaughlin uo.
the Daily Telegraph that people seem to think you pay for testi-
monials? and I, for one, having been a sufferer, feel it my duty to resent
th!S I am 58 years of age, and, about two years ago, received a fall on to my
shoulders that gave me’a very bad hurt; and, again, I got hurt about nine
I freauently used porous plasters and linaments, which I rubbed on the
without receiving any benefit, and could hardly breathe on
Tt is now about four months since I got your Belt, and it has done me a
wonderful lot of good. lam now able to work—a thing I could not do before
1 S °Youa«at liberty to use this letter in any way you see At, and I shall be
pleased to give all information I can to any seeking after healthy
Yours gratefully, • RAWLINGS.
Could Not Walk.
Jamison Town,
The Dr. McLaughlin Co., June 6th, 1902.
Dgju* Sirs
I cannot speak too highly of your Electric Belt. For 17 years I have
suffered from Lame Back and Legs, caused by carrying a heavy weight. For
the last 10 years I have been almost a cripple. I have been under several
medical men during the time, but never received any lasting benefit from
their treatment. ,
A few weeks ago I saw your advertisement in the Daily Telegraph about
your Electric Belts. I came to Sydney and purchased one, and the result from
wearing it four hours a day is marvellous. I can now stoop and touch my
boots and feet with my left hand, a feat I have not been able to perform
for the last 10 years. , . . . .
My neighbors are astonished at the great improvement in my health.
Some of them want to know what I have done with my walking-stick. I can
attribute this great improvement in myself to nothing else but your Electric
Belt y 0 u may use this testimonial as you please for the benefit of all sufferers.
Gratefully yours, CHARLES SHEPHERD.
t to be y °We r ' wnf e bf|MTo a 2p°Wn e eve"“d?Ji e Don”? buy See youTomTfor^n
examination. You don’t. Nor you don’t have to pay a consultation fee, either.
To the men or women who want to regain their health, who want to feel like they
j hpfnre misfortune overtook them, we offer one of our Books, which will show the
road to happiness. They are brimful of the things you will like to read, which will
mve vou courage and enlighten you as to the causes and cure of your troubles. They
will point out the pitfalls, and guide you safely to a future of strength and happiness.
Thev are beautifully illustrated, and tell what others have suffered, and how they
have cured themselves. They are free, and will be sent, closely sealed, without
marks If vou are not as well as you ought to be, send for one to-day.
Th *Dr. McLaughlin Go.
85 King St., Sydney,
167 E Swanston St., Melbourne.
HOURS :9 A.M. TO 8.30 P.M.
ENCLOSE THIS ADVERTISEMENT.


Handicapped.
The man who started to run a race in chains
and fetters would be visibly handicapped ; no
one could expect him to succeed. The man who
runs the race of life when his digestive and
nutritive organs are diseased is equally handi-
capped. In the one case his strength is over-
weighed ;in the other, it is undermined.
Success demands, above all things, a healthy
stomach. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills care
diseases of the stomach and other organs of
digestion and nutrition. The food is perfectly
digested and assimilated, and the body receives
strength in the only way in which strength can
be given—by the nourishment derived from
digested and assimilated food. Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills are a perfect blood purifier,
and a positive cure for biliousness, indigestion,
constipation, headaches, sallow complexion,
liver and kidney troubles, piles, pimples, boils
and _ blotches, and for female ailments. Put
up in amber bottles, and the full name blown
thereon.*
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.
Martin’s Apiol and Steel Pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia, price 4s. Gd.
Agents: Sayers, Allport, and Potter, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor, W. Martin, Pharmaceutical
Chemist, Southampton, England.*
The
Crowning:
Coior.
THE ALL-EED WHEEL . . .
THE REP BIRD BICYCLE
Staunchly constructed, perfect in running, always reliable, and sold
that all can purchase. Cash or Terms for New or Secondhand Bikes.
at a price and on such terms
COOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King Street, Sydney.
As
a Corrective
and Safeguard
of HEALTH.
THE BEST REMEDY TO-DAY IN THE MARKET IS
REUTER’S LITTLE PILLS
FOR THE LIVER.
A HOUSEHOLD NECESSITY.
Hardy’s Tintara Wines
Absolutely Pure;
Fully Matured;
700 Medals, etc.
Adelaide:
CURRIE STREET
Melbourne:
COLLINS STREET
Sydney:
GROSVENOR STREET
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Victory of Bay Eagle in G.N. ’Chase at Flem-
ington, Saturday, was a staggerer for all barring the few
who were “on ” at long shots. Spite of his shaping well
in Sydney, where two Randwick and one Rosehill Steeples
fell to him, tipsters and alleged judges generally wouldn’t
have B. E. at any price, because Brokerage (humping
12.10) beat him hollow over the Randwick big lep course
at a disadvantage of 361bs. ; and there was a margin of
131bs. less between them on Saturday. Yet, while Bay
Eagle won, Brokerage pulled up at the other end of the
struggle. Mo. was jubilant, for had heavily-backed
second nag, Error, got home, there would have been a big
clearing-out of Hebrew shekels. Pace was solid all the
journey. Time (6mins. 33J) only exceeds Freedom’s
record created last year by 1 jsec. Bay Eagle is owned by
Tas. sport, “S. M. Wilson,” and prepared at Randwick
by trainer W. Kelso. He is an aged gelding, by Stationer
from a mare by Paddy’s Land. Two years ago Bay Eagle
was raced in Tasmania by Miss Ice, and, as Mr. Cox’s pro-
perty, won Tas. T.O. Steeple in Feb. (last year), and
subsequently closed on another at the Midland J.C. meet
in March. “S. M. Wilson” got him after this, and, in
his colors, the nag annexed Deloraine T.O. ’Chase. June
saw him successful against class horses at Williamstown,
and later (with 10.7 up) he gathered in Kensington ’Chase
at Y.R.C. G.N. Steeple meeting. Losing form after this,
he was brought to Sydney and has evidently come on
wonderfully since. Though backed to win a couple of
thousand the day before, odds of 100 to 4 went begging on
the course. Bay Eagle is the first Sydney-trained horse
to win the G.N. Steeple.
» * *
Bay Eagle’s luck was in the happenings of the
race. Half-a-mile from home he had only Lamond,
A.N.A., and Error to beat. Lamond, who was going best
of all, struck the top of the last fence but one and fell,
interfering somewhat with Error, who had been humping
his 12.5 burden among the leaders from the start.
Lamond’s fall left Bay Eagle with a long lead of the other
two, and although Error ran away from A.N.A., he could
never catch the leader. The top-weight was beaten by
three-quarters of a length, with nothing else “in it.”
Probably Mr. Miller’s champion had done one gallop too
many on the training-track, and didn’t run quite up to
his clipping trial. Anyway, his defeat, under the circs.,
was a surprise as well as a disappointment to the stable.
“BILL” DOHERTY, Heavy-Weight Champion
Boxer of Australasia.
Me] b. Age tipster, writing on the morning of
the G.N. Steeple, said : “ Bay Eagle will be found plod-
ding along industriously, long after some of the more
fancied candidates have measured their lengths on the
sward, but he is much too slow to possess even a forlorn
hope."
* * * *
If one had to pick the ’chaser of the future from
the field that saddled up for the Grand Nat., the selec-
tion would be Kiota, now a 6-year-old, and a very “ dark-
'un ”at that. As showing the foolishness of looking for
certainties in obstacle races, it may be mentioned that,
whereas Scobie was sweet on Royal Mail’s chance (the
“ safe ” jumper started favorite at 4 to 1), he didn’t ex-
pect the novice, Kiota, to get over the course. Royal
Mail came early to grief, but Kiota got through his task
cleverly enough, and, on returning to the birdcage, this
handsome full-brother to Daimio looked a picture of un-
ripe excellence. It may be that he will prove a difficult
horse to train. Meanwhile, on appearances, Kiota is
likely to make a great name for himself in the big-timber
trade. A nag to be followed by punters—if they must
punt—at starting-price.
* * » *
Prize money for V.K.C. G.N. meeting, ended
Saturday, totalled £6605. Mr. A. Miller (first in G.N.
Hurdles, first in Doutta Galla Hurdles, second in G.N.
’Chase, first in Footscray and Kensington Steeples, and
Maiden ’Chase) had the biggest dip, and got away with
£2299; “S. M. Wilson,” through Bay Eagle’s success in
G.N. Steeple, took £1478. M. Whitty was third on the
list—his whack being £348.
• * * *
The luck of it, Top-weight Colonel Shillinski
won Doutta Galla Hurdles at Flemington, Saturday, in a
canter. Previous week same nag ran G.N. Hurdles
winner, Rawdon, to half-a-head in the hottest struggle
that race has known. Following Monday owner (Mr. A.
Miller) of Rawdon bought Shillinski for £5OO, and in
Doutta Galla Hurdles prize money (£482) alone almost
got his “monkey” back, but as the nag started first
favorite and succeeded, pulling up, inference is that the
lucky owner scooped a big pile in bets also.
* * * *
Falls were plentiful last day of V.R.C. lepping
meet. In Doutta Galla Hurdles, Riverina gelding Tib, at
the last jump, broke his neck and fractured the base' of
rider E. Kennedy’s skull, besides injuring his head in
other ways. G.N. ’Chase brought about falls of Mystery
Kaimate, Royal Mail, Mensuration, Lamond, Sindhia’
Brokerage, and Deingomar. Mensuration broke his neck’
Lucidly, all riders escaped serious hurt. Plumer and
Lord Dagobert came down in Footscray Steeple. Rider
(P. Kennedy) of last-named sustained a severe shock and
Pluiner’s jock’s call was remarkably close.
* * *
Analysis of successfu 1 animals in 22 G.N. ’Chases
po far reveals that 11 were aged ; 6, six-year-olds ; 3, five-
year-olds ; and 2, four-year-olds. Mares that scored’were
Ruby and Rosebud. Great Western, Game, Eaglet
Redleap, and Daimio were the only first choices to merit
their supporters’ confidence.
. Mr. Albert Miller s colors were sported in seven
jumping events at the V.R.C. meeting, and of the nine
horses that carried the “all white” four finished first,
and three others were runners-up. The trouble will be
to keep them all in form for the big Caulfield meeting
next month. It was with a view to Caulfield G.N.
Hurdles that A.M. recently bought Colonel Shilinski,
thereby clearing the way for Rawdon, should the
stable decide to send that sterling stayer for
the 4-mile journey in preference to the Colonel.
All going well with both nags, Rawdon will probably be
the one on the day, and Mooney will ride him. By the
way, the fact that Mooney took the mount on Kaimate,
instead of Error, for the Steeplechase last Saturday was
thought to be a “ clever ” manmuvre calculated to deceive
punters in ordinary as to the stable’s real fancy, but the
truth of the matter was that Mooney preferred to ride
Kaimate because he and Error are not on good terms with
one another. They don’t seem to hit it together. At
rlemington, on New Year’s Day, Error brought Mooney
to grass, and their relations since then have been very
strained. J
* * * *
Match for supremacy of Australia, ’twixt stal-
hon Emulator (A. M'Millan) and mare Lightfoot (A.
Milson), at Australian Trotting Association’s meet on
Richmond (Vic.) course, t’other day, supplied the
best show of trot ever seen on this patch. Con-
ditions called for a flying start, and best two in
three one-mile heats. First test saw Lightfoot go
to the front straight —showing a margin of 20yds.
and stay there throughout, winning in Australian
record, time, 2.18 2-sth. Prior bests for mares were
Calista s 2.19 i (against time), and Lightfoot’s 2.23 (in a
race). Both shaped faultlessly. In second heat Light-
toot again made the running, and once Emulator broke
badly. Finishing in the straight, the stallion came with
a fast late spurt, causing the mare to swerve inside a post
just after she had won. Emulator’s owner’s protest that
Lightfoot didn’t run the course was, however, upheld.
Time (2.19) was afresh stallion best. Third tussle brought
about same tactics from Lightfoot, but Emulator hung
lil 16 ? r * m death, and a high-tension battle occurred.
At the (jfur. post Lightfoot was a length better, and it
looked “any odds” that she’d win, but the noise of the
crowd scared her and she tried to run inside the post.
Consequent sudden pull sent the mare on a wild break
and gave Emulator a long lead, enabling him to win in
2.18 4-5, thus breaking his latest best, put up in previous
heat. Fresh Australian records established were Race
record for 1-mile track, 2.18 2-5 ; 1 mile record for mares,
2.18 2-5; 1 mile record under saddle, 2.18 2-5; 1 mile
stallion record, 2.18 4-5 ; fastest three-heat race, 2.18 2-5 ;
2.19 ; 2.18 4-5.
• • * *
Emulator is syrs. old, 15.1 high, nuggety and
compact. He was bred by his owner, Mr. W. J. Welsby,
is by Osterley out of Jessie, by Planet, by Panic out of an
Irish King mare and was broken-in when a yearling. As
a 2yr. old he covered the mile in 2.59. Lightfoot is by
Osterley out of Yarrawonga, by Australian, by Panic.
She is a bright bay, 15 hands, lightly and powerfully put
together, bred by Mr. John Robertson, of Trucanini, near
Werribee (Vic.), and belongs to Mr. W. J. Beckett.
Lightfoot is 7yrs. old, and in 4yrs. of racing has won 21
struggles. The Australasian 2-mile trot speediest (4.51)
belongs to her.
, * * *
Dunlop nag Abington—lusty and fresh-looking
—sprung a surprise on all but trainer-owner “Sam”
Fielder and a few friends, by winning Canterbury Park
Flying Stakes (Saturday) easily. He looked too much on
the big s.de, and hadn’t been seen out on the track often
enough to warrant the impression that he could win ;
but he won easily, leading all the way, and having a good
field hopelessly troubled at the entrance to the straight.
Abington is sure to improve a lot between now and the
Epsom, and as he humped more Saturday than he’ll
be asked to carry in the coming big mile, his prospects
look fairly rosy, despite that, so far, he seems to favor
6fur. more than any other distance.
* * * *
Cabled that London Morning Post suspects
001. Harry M'Calmont of being prospective Governor-
General of Australia. This should suit the sporting sec-
tion down to the ground. Col. M‘Calmont is among
English turfdom’s principal props. He owned Isinglass,
winner of the Two Thousand Guineas, Derby and St.
Leger, as well as other important events. Though his
nag's didn t do over-well last season, in a comparative
sense, they brought in £2773. Isinglass figured through
four seasons and gathered up £57,455 per medium of 11
successes, which exceeds any thing ever done by any other
horse. Nearest haul to this was Donovan’s £55,153, but
raced W 0 seasons. Col. M'Calmont’s colors are
light blue and scarlet (quartered) with white cap.
* * » #
Miller’s Sporting Pamphlet is to hand with the
performances of Caulfield and Melbourne Cup candidates
set forth as per usual, and the array of general informa-
tion rather more carefully arrayed than before One
new feature m the annual dictionary of Cup horses is
the statement of owners’ colors. This will commend the
handy pamphlet to the noble army of Cup dreamers who
are more addicted to dreaming the colors of the jockey
than the name of the animal that carries him first oast
the visionary post. p
* * * •
Malster’s weights—9.l2 and 9.10 in the two
A. U ? S 7s tnk i- e u? ne as beln «' more than enough for a horse
that did nothing remarkably brilliant before being laid
hnr«« e k Bhe f ’ l9 months a B'°- Nevertheless, the Ballarat
horse has a rather more tempting- chance on naner than
?f d ™ ul at 10 - 5 each. Fact is, none of the
heavy-burdened ‘ cracks” will be worth serious com
nth e B I S t f?. n h Untll the K a ? y , spring racin 8' has proved the
others to be a very bad lot. The winner of next Melb
Cup is handicapped, probably, at something under Bstr
* * * ,
Dear Bulletin.-ife par (B. 7/6/’O2) about
Kinetoscope s Mount Morgan performance. I was pre-
sent, m April, 76, at a race-meeting at Lancefield (Vic )
when my fathers two-vear-old colt Fireproof annexed
l°u- r £ a £ es ° ut of » slx ~ ln S out a Consolation Stakes, in
which he was, of course, debarred from competing - The
remaining two races of the six fell to Fireproof’s stable
companion GG Smith’s John Peel; and It is further re-
markable that R. Snarey, who rode Fireproof in his
second win, won also the succeeding five races, two of
them with Fireproof, and two with John Peel; the fifth
being the Consolation Stakes aforesaid.-F. A. Abbott
* * * *
19 000*,? °f ?? s , t u n inv .iting weather Saturday,
12,000 people (at least) paid £541 odd to see Q-NSff
toe-ball struggle on Sydney ’Varsity Oval, where a retire'
tfme atlV Notlhl' St f t6 i- matCh WaS foUghfc out for the
time. Notable feature was unusually heavy scoring
which ordinarily would indicate poor defence, though
that was not the case in this instance. Play on both
sides was sustained with remarkable vigor, and held
I s t throu g h °ut- Contrary to expectations, the backs
did best comparatively. Muddling of Q. men at times
?nd Vl hf d th PPOrtiUm V e fv, for - the opposing force to score,
and in this respect the visiting full-back erred most
Home combination was in better condition, too, but O
twfe e h m"5 t °!, ndica ? e tha b with the week between;
they 11 probably do themselves full justice in return match
this Saturday. All N.S. W. side operated right up toform
In particular Finlay (half-back) excelled anything he ™s
done lately and fairly stood out from all others This
was especially pleasing in face of fact that, through his
apparent falling off in form during past two months
selectors were charged with including him on past
deeds and not through present qualifications. Q. backs
worked better than the forwards, who lacked effective-
ness through bungling passes. Home team scored first
but, later points were 8 to 3 in favor of the visitors who
however, found the enemy too solid in the second half
and went under-24 to 13. Dixon appeared best of the O
backs and gave a finer display of the game than he had
ever previously shown in Sydney. - a
* * * *
xr ?w 49 foobb f^ ll .matches between Bananaland and
STii^been 0 drawn alt6r won 29 17.
“E.” : Melbourne football—junior esDeoiallv—
promises the possibilities of a Spanish bull-fight T’other
Saturday, in their match with Williamstown, “ Pons ” laid
out no less than six opponents, which teat moved the Asso-
ciation committee to wipe-out one Portonian for life and
order further investigation. Next Saturday, Ports met
Richmond, and, fearing trouble, the authorities laid on
20 foot, six mounted, and 10 plain-clothes constables i
Even this display failed to repress the enthusiasm of some
of the battlers.' Many ladies were present, and took a
great interest in the proceedings. Among the remarks
which the writer heard from the sex that boasts a gentle
spirit and a murdered fowl in its hat were, “ Lay them
out! ” “ Stiffen the brute ! ” “ Sling him, Ruddy ; sling
him! ”
* * * *
London Sportsman marvels at so great a side
as present Australian Eleven being drawn from so small
a field of selection. All prognostications about slow bat-
ting have been completely falsified, and the opinion on
t’other side of the sphere is close to unanimous that
present team has never been excelled since ’B4, which
year saw a combination that only the incomparable ’B2
lot transcended. Same authority sums Trumper up a
finer bat than when he notched his great century in the
’99 test at Lords, and a player with more strokes than
anyone bar Ranji—“ on the leg-side he is perhaps stronger
than anyone in the world.”
* * * *
The varying; fortunes of Australia in the last
two matches against the weak counties of Warwickshire
and Worcestershire, might suggest to the evil-minded
that our boys had an eye on a third day’s play, with the
accompanying “ gate.” Each county recovered ground
most unexpectedly on the second day, when at the close
of the first the game seemed over. Apropos of nothing :
25 sundries out of a total of 202 in Worcestershire’s first
innings doesn’t.sound well for the wicket-keeping.
* * * •
Armstrong, the lank Victorian cricketer, is
achieving a reputation as the-man-who-does-not-get-out.
His average this English tour is now 28, and he has only
five times out of 24 succeeded in reaching that total. A
succession of “ not outs” has left him fifth on the batting
list, with only two points between him and Gregory, Hill
and Duff.
» * * *
One English paper, after Yorkshire had so
thoroughly licked Australia “ After this object-lesson
it is devoutly to be hoped that at least one of the test-
matches may be played to a conclusion on a good wicket.”
And it has been !
* * • *
Australia won the Worcestershire match by 172
runs. Australia’s first total was 274, embracing Duff 90,
Noble 50, Jones 30, and Hill 29. Englishman Bird scat-
tered 6 for 69. Worcestershire gathered 202, with highest
scores 59, 38, and 26 (twice). Four wickets for 34 fell to
Noble ; Armstrong and Jones getting 2 each for 28 and 46.
Australians accumulated 199 in second innings. Hill
contributed 50, Gregory 45, and Duff 30. Worcester-
shire’s next turn at batting resulted in 97; leading score
was 35, with next not half as good. Jones and Armstrong
did the damage, former crediting himself with 6 for 53,
and latter 4 for 34.
» » * *
Australia met Warwickshire, last week, in fine
weather and on a good wicket. County’s first effort pro-
duced 128 ; highest scores, 38 and 21 (twice). Armstrong
got six for 13 and Jones three for 32. Close of opening
day saw three Australians out for 182, with biggest scores
Gregory 60 (n. 0.), Trumper 45, and Darling 37 (n. 0.). Con-
tinuation brought Gregory to 83. Darling went out
second ball without adding. Next best individual con-
tributions were Hopkins 33 and Carter 31. Full total was
316. Heavy rain on third day put further play out of the
question ; then Warwickshire had seven down for 225 ;
68, 39 and 32 topped the list of runs. Bowling honors
(four for 66) fell to Jones this time ; Armstrong secured
one for 47. Rain unquestionably saved Warwickshire, as,
with seven down in its second essay, it was but 33 to the
good.
» * » *
Match against Gloucester commenced early this
week should prove fairly soft for Australians. Last ’Ome
season saw Gloucester finish very low on the County list
—second last. Of 24 matches played it only won three,
went under in 10, while 11 were drawn. W. G. Grace
skippered the County against Australia 16 times ’tween
’7B and ’96. First Australian eleven (in ’7B) beat
Gloucester by 10 wickets ; then latter side included three
Graces—W.G., E.M. and G.F. (since dead), and the same
trio were among the eleven the ’BO Australian combination
defeated by 68. In ’BB Gloucester squelched Australia by
257 in one match and eight wickets in another, thus
scoring its only successes against Australia.
• • * *
The small boys who were wont to get free seats
for Melbourne cricket and football matches by climbing
trees on the outskirts of the oval, have lately been
brought under the observation of the police. The police
are getting very vigilant as regards small boys roosting in
trees. If the youthful malefactors refuse to come down
when called upon in the name of the Law, they are not
unfrequently prodded from their resting-places with
clothes-props. Constable M’Ginty, dislodging a nipper
by means of a two-pronged prop, is a fine illustration of
the efficiency of the Foorce.
* * • •
Most punishing bruising match seen in Sydney
for long time was between M.L. and Q. middleweights—
Billy M‘Car thy and Arthur Cripps—at Gaiety A. O. last
week. From first to midway through the Isth round it
was all bang and no science ; they fairly punched each
other to a standstill, and presented woeful pictures,
M’Carthy being in much the worse plight. Ultimately
police intervention stopped the serving out of further
doses (which could then only be administered weak),: and
the battle was declared a draw. The faces of both pugs
afterwards were anything but an edifying spectacle, and
even next day, when sundry gashes and bruises had been
treated surgically, there was little improvement—the
“ slogged-out ” look still remained.
* * * *
Novice boxing tourneys are raging in Sydney.
Rival boxing-halls vie in giving big money-prizes for
winners and runners-up, together with trophies more or
less valuable, and induce huge entries by offering half-
sovs. to winners of heats, and “ crowns ” to defeated
men, provided they show fight. Most of the latter have
hitherto been in it for liquor-money only, and had such a
wholesome horror of making things “ willin’ ” that they
frequently laid down and tried to crawl inside themselves
through sheer scare. These were promptly disqualified
from any claim upon the loser’s piece of silver, with the
result that, as a rule, now (though often ignorant of the
merest rudiments of the game) they plug away apparently
insensible to punishment, until nature collapses, or the
knock-out punch lands with the requisite amount of
force on the right spot. Is this sport ?
* * * *
“Ciro”: It was more than a prize-fight. It
was a solution of an ethnological problem. Felix, as he
stripped his overcoat, was fine in his savage beauty. His
black skin glistened and the blood showed through the
skin on his high lights, just as the pink legs of an actress
show through her black tights. His prognathous jaw was
a model of Ethiopian perfection. Doherty looked a mere
boy as he stripped his brown sweater and faced him. He
stood Sin. lower than the negro, and his knuckles reached
2in. short of Felix’s armpit when the immense arms of
the negro were extended. Had the white man the
slightest prospect of success ? The white audience was
forced to admit that he had none, and the offers of two to
one found few backers. As they fought, the difference
was even more manifest. Felix stood off, pushed
out his long, lean left arm with lightning rapidity
and never gave Doherty a chance of getting near
enough to hit him. The white tried again and
again, only to meet that straight, swift piston-rod.
There was little weight in the negro’s blows, but there
were many of them. The bookmakers offered odds in the
ascending scale, reaching even 7to 1. They saw the
height and reach of the black giant scoring over th#
nuggetty man before him. They forgot that Doherty
was a White Man. Suddenly the men came to close
quarters. Arms flew, and the weakening Doherty came
out of the round the better. Again there was a wild
anarchic scuffle, wherein the mighty reach of the black
was of no more use than the short blunt arm of his
adversary. Then came another round, with Doherty
making a final bid for success. He forced Felix into a
corner, took his blows and gave others in return. The
negro emerged from the whirling struggle with a grim
patch of purple where his nose had been. Instead of
wearing a genial smile, his face now had a look of fury.
His lips were parted, and his white teeth shone, with
lines of red trickling between. He rushed on Doherty
wildly, frenziedly, with such a rush as when his brothers
threw themselves at the bayonets of Omdurman. Fearless,
careless of consequences, he forced the white man into
the corner, beat down his guard with whirling blows, and
landed hit after hit. Doherty was done. He had not the
strength to defend himself. Another blow would have sent
him senseless to the boards. But he never flinched. His
head, knocked from side to side, kept the brain within it
alert for a suggestion of escape. The battered body held
a White Man’s heart. The chance came before the final
blow. He ducked, grappled with Felix, and gained a
respite of two seconds. In those two seconds the rage
that had animated Felix passed away, and the pain of
his broken nose got to his heart. Doherty did riot wait
for an attack. He dashed upon the negro, hit his body
heavily, and as the long arms dropped, swung hot blows
on the black and purple face. It was an exact reversal of
what had taken place five seconds before. But the end
was different. When three blows had landed on Felix’s
head heavily, he turned that head away. The fourth
hit the turned head heavily. The Black Man, senseless,
or tired of being hurt, fell face downwards to the floor.
Doherty’s courage was greater than even his seconds had
dreamed, for they had judged that his punishment was
sufficient, and had determined to give the fight to Felix
at the end of the round !
* * * *
“Snell”: The Doherty-Felix fight in Mel-
bourne has drawn the usual moral, declamat 'rv sub-
sermon from the Argus on the demoralising effects of
these brutal exhibitions; but why is all this mealy,
mouthed sentimentality reserved for prize-fights ? Why
is the man with the sheep-like expression and the old-
maidenly habit of thought so moved in the stomach over
the glove-fight, which he does not see, while he can gaze
with genteel composure at a football match, from which
two or three performers maybe towed in a “busted”
condition, or at a hot cycling finish, which leaves compe-
titors all out, necessitating the application of the rules
for the restoration of the done-up and dead-beat?
Having seen many scores of glove-fights and many foot-
ball matches and cycling contests, I reckon there is more
brutality in either of the latter than in a smart boxing
match. Have never yet seen a boxer so injured that he
could not laugh at his hurts next day, but have seen any
number of jockeys, cyclists, and footballers horribly
injured.
*»• • &
Cabled last Saturday that Australian F. S. Kelly
appropriated Henley Diamond Sculls—the blue ribbon of
amateur rowing world. Kelly is a student of Balliol
(Oxford), and a son of late T. Hussey Kelly (Sydney). He
is 21, and a typical Cornstalk. F.S.K. recently won the
“ Nettle ” musical scholarship at Oxford, and was emer-
gency against Cambridge two years ago. A year previ-
ously he stroked the successful Eton eight at Henley.
* * * »
Announced last week by cable that M.L. hurdler
and forefront toe-baller, George Smith, picked up British
120 yards Hurdles’ supremacy in 16sec.— l-ssec. slower
than his own accepted Australian best. Last year Yankee
all-legs-and-all-wings leaping freak, Kraenzlein, appropri-
ated the same laurels easily in 15 2-5. Two years before
Kraenzlein triumphed in exactly the same time, which is
the world’s best grass-track performance over 10 jumps.
Cinder-path speediest is ’Murkan A. F. Copland’s 14 3-5
over hurdles 2ft. 6in. high, in ’BB. With 3ft. 6in. jumps
Kraenzlein’s 15 1-5 has never been equalled. Same mes-
sage told that Englishman J. Binks won the Mile premier-
ship in 4.16 4-5, which is a British record for amateurs.
The world’s fastest is T. P. Conneff’s 4.15 3-5, and world’s
top professional figures are W. G. George’s 4.12 J. M.L.
distance runner, Simpson, finished third in the 4 miles
» * • *
Re achievement of Melbourne’s pigeon-butcher-
ing 13-year-old wonder, “Parvo” (Hector Fraser), men-
tioned herein (12/7/’O2). The lad has gone one better
since. At Melbourne club’s subsequent weekly gathering
he made a break of 26 murders—l 9 pigeons and the rest
sparrows—and only “ lost ” seven, in 46 rounds. Some of
his second-barrel shots were remarkable. Atop of whack-
ing two sweeps he settled B. C. Hawkins by one kill in
the big contest of the day, after six others had dropped
out. “ Parvo,” though only a mere handful, manipulates
his dad’s gun—a Boswell, weighing 71bs. 4oz.—with ease.
* * * *
“This is a grand country for frogs!”— An
Australian cricketer’s written opinion of dear old
England.
* * • •
Local interest in the doings of the Australian
cricketers in England is practically nil. One “special
reporter with the team,” referring to the dismissal of Fry
and Ranji for ducks in the second test-match, writes:
“ What a triumph for Bert Hopkins ! The whole of the
North Shore of Sydney should be in a flame of enthusi-
asm.” But nary a flame was there.


BUTTER BY POST
A boon to residents of the back country, where butter is scarce or
unobtainable. Parcels containing from 21bs. to lOlbs. of our CELEBRATED
“ GOLDEN STAR ” BUTTER despatched regularly, packed in special card-
board boxes, at SYDNEY RETAIL RATES, plus postage. Remittance should
accompany order. Ask for a catalogue of our other HOME NECESSARIES.
THE N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO., Ltd., SYDNEY.
GOOD RIGHT THROUGH.
|y|assey-Harris Bicycles
Are reliable in every part, run easy, and always look well.
Call and inspect our stock of these justly Famous Mounts: Cash or Terms.
SportiQg Requisites
Patrons of Sporting Clubs and Officials will do well to visit
our Sports Department. Every kind of Pastime catered for.
Massey-Harris Depot: 357 George Street , Sydney,
Branches—Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth and Wellington, N.Z.
Drink
Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER
YOU GET THE BEST VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY WHEN YOU
BUY A
REMINGTON
Double-Barrel . □
Hammerless Gun.
Thoroughly Guaranteed.
Kept in stock by the Largest Gun Stores in Melbourne and Sydney.
Remington Arms Company
Head Office: 315 BROADWAY, NEW YORK, U.S.A.
REMINGTON GUNS, £5 10s. to £is.
REMINGTON RIFLES, 23/6 post free.
McLEAN BROS. & RIGC, Ltd., 107 Elizabeth-St., Melbourne.
NOW READY.
SPORTING
J. J. MILLER’S
ONE SHILLING (posted 2d. extra)
All Booksellers, or from Publishers . . .
J. J. MILLER PRINTING 00., MELBOURNE.
PAMPHLET
"pOR the person who is not a millionaire, thereis ONLY
ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY,
lhat ’s “Ellis' King Street Coffee Palace,”-*!
siUiated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
UHlce - Proprietor—GEO. W. ELLIS.
A
WHEN BABY FRETS
AS BABIES WILL
and worries himself and mamma
by insisting upon being held, he
welcomes the rest, amusement,
and variety found in
THE COMBINED
gaby jumper
Rocking Chair
Every Time it Wriggles
The Baby Giggles—and Goes to Sleep.
You can easily move it from room to
room, or any place desired, saving yom-
self the trouble of holding and enter-
taining his majesty, giving you time for
other duties, and at the same time as-
suring your baby health and comfort.
Physicians endorse it.
Buy one now of your dealer,
or order direct from the Impor-
ter, who sends a picture-botik
telling you all about it free.
As a Baby Combination
Jumper and Cradle, suspended
by springs, it can be instantly
detached and used as a Baby
Rocker. Adjustable into any
position or angle.
When Baby wakes up, the
slightest movement causes the
springs to respond, acting' like the pendulum of a clock, it
sways gently and soothes the child to sleep.
THE ROCKER COY., 91 Clarence Street, Sydney.
PUBLIC SUPPLIED BY
SYDNEY—LASSETTER & COMPANY,
-s, PARMER & COMPANY,
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
HANNON & COMPANY.
MELBOURNE —TYE & COMPANY, Bourke STREET.
BRISBANE—FINNEY, ISLES & COMPANY.
Melb. Age, in its remarkable rancour
against the Peacock crowd, drags forth as a
special indictment the story of how a public
servant and prominent A.N.A. man obtained
leave-of-absence for a year to try his hand at some
| other business, with the option of returning to his
comfortable nest at the end of that time if he
| failed outside. Had the facts been given when the
A. N. A. man was granted leave, nearly a year ago,
there might have been some point in it, especially
as the matter was a subject of abundant comment
at the time. But since then the ex-Premier has
had a word or two to say about press-domination,
which accounts for much of the milk in a very
large cocoanut.
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Agents for N. S. Wales: Sayers,
Allport and Potter, Sydney. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
Lngland.*
“ Taiora ” writes
Re Cresswell; the lunatic par. (15. 5/7/’O2) contains some
errors. “Cruel farces” in N.S.W. in lunacy cases are
extremely rare, and, to avoid the perpetration of one,
the authorities have persistently refused to hand over
Cresswell. The par. implies that lunacy administration
is wanting in effectiveness in N.S.W., whereas it is well-
known to alienists in other parts of the world to be the
best in the Southern Hemisphere. It compares favorably
with the systems of the most highly-civilised countries in
Europe or America, and is very much in advance of the
lunacy administration of most of the U.S. Cresswell is
at Parramatta, not at Oallan Park.
a ,A* Hervey, of Sydney, sole agent in
Australasia for D. Anderson and Son, Ltd., of Belfast,
manufacturers of silicate cotton and felts, has received the
following advice from his principals, under date May
. We had ‘ Stoniflex,’ our new flax, tested along
with ordinary roofing felt before the Glasgow Fire Brigade
authorities, who built a small bon-fire on the ‘Stoniflex’
and the Asphalte Roofing Felt, and the former stood the
test even better than the ordinary RooiSng. After the
fire had burnt itself out, the stoniflex felt was barely
charred, and the authorities were perfectly satisfied that
this felt could be put on roofs with safety.’”*
.Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmus,sen’s iwivt. on page
33 of this issue *
SNARPSNOOTINg
For Sport and War.
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARK!
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/- nett. ::
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published,
IF you wish to get good work and value
■ you should purchase W. W. GREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on.
application to—
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne..
(Greener’s Representative).
The dangers of not taking a man at his
word. A Randwick resident awoke, t’other
'morning, and found, in place of his dozen geese,
-ibut six and the following note: “Sorry can’t
take lot, but really too heavily loaded now ; will
‘call to-morrow night for the balance.” Of course
that irate poultry-keeper and the police only
regarded the note as a heartless insult, but the
joose-thief kept his appointment. On awaking,
rext morning the fowl-owner found that the
remaining six geese had followed the first; in
jheir place was another polite note asking him
iow long it would be before “he replenished the
■ ; ost feathered flock.”
Publication by the N.S.W. Board of
Sealth of analyses of Australian wines sold in
Sydney, showing that “the majority are inferior
ind adulterated,” is calculated to have a bad
effect on local wine sales. Unless Government is
willing to see the wine industry relapse to its con-
iition of 20 years ago it must take action to put
down adulteration. The sort of general state-
ment issued by the Board of Health operates as a
■ed rag of warning against all Australian wines.
The State should prosecute the makers and sellers
if adulterated wines, and thus give a chance to
lonest vignerons and sellers. The fewer these
atter are the more they merit the chance.
There are more ways of killing a dog than
:hoking him with parritch. Wully Affleck found
ihat out in N.S.W. Assembly last week when he
moved for a return of all money spent by the
Public Works Department in individual electo-
rates (with the hope of showing that Govt, and
jabor Members got more fat than Oppositionists).
The Government called its party outside; and the
Labor Party went outside, too; and the House
was counted out. Wully’s indignation was so
laughable that there is danger of the same thing
happening to him often. N.S.W. Assembly has a
fairly-trained sense of humor, and it can always
spare the time for a joke.
Singleton’s Eye-Ointment just about fills
the bill as the badly-needed specific in this land
of uies, sandy blight, and sore eyes generally.
Three centuries of vogue should vouch for the
curative excellence of this famous unguent, even
without the modern testimonials to its efficacy in
the cure of all inflammatory or ulcerous affections
of the eye, and in the restoration of departed eye-
lashes. To the healthy eye, also, the Ointment is
found of great benefit in the way of preserving or
increasing keenness of vision. *
The art of straight shooting should go
ahead now that the Remington double-barrelled
hammerless gun has become so popular through-
out the Commonwealth. It has already spoken
straight to the point at a number of matches, and
induces the worst kind of marksman to hit the
object aimed at instead of his best friend. The
Remington carries a guarantee from its manufac-
turers, the Remington Small Arms Co., who, as
everybody knows, are the American Government
contractors, and have been building rifles since
1816. *
The Carrington Hotel, at Katoomba, has
recently been renovated right through, and the proprie-
tors intend it to become the leading hotel of the Blue
Mountains. The proprietary include A. L. Peacock, late
of the Imperial, Mount Victoria, and of the Empire,
Sydney ; C. T. H. Walse, late house steward to the
Governor-General, to the Duke of Beaufort, &c., and
Monsieur Emil Chiboust, late chef to H.B.H. the Duke
of Connaught, the Earl of Sefton, and the Earl of Dart-
mouth. With such high-class talent to manage things,
the Carrington should become famous.*
The recent Antarctic disturbance “Sproull,”
which averted Sydney’s threatened water famine,
was named after Mr. W. H. Sproull, J.P., the
oldest established chemist in Newcastle.*
Patents for Inventions. —Arthur Griffith
and Allen, International Patent Agents and Con-
sulting Engineers, University Chambers, Phillip-
street, Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyright
throughout the world.*
A letter from across the Tasman Sea :
When news reached Wellington (M.L.) of the illness of
England’s King, all bands devoted themselves to the
attractions of the public-houses and the joss-houses. Over
300 swaddies—a section of the farm-burners which Dick
the Mountebank has despatched from this misguided
country—had been landed that day, and what time they
hustled from pub. to pub., bawling and cursing, the par-
sons were busily “wording” the God of Britain to go
slow. One of the tribe concluded his beseech so: “ And,
O Lord, we ask Thee once again to spare His Majesty,
but, while he is so near Thee, show him the evils of the
turf ; point out to him the wickedness of the racecourse,
where the totalisator and the card-sharper pollute the
minds of the young.” It was a great night; the rain fell
in torrents, beer and blasphemy wept in each other’s
arms, and all was mud and damn.
Sydney D.T.’s special correspondent in
London:—
I don’t know how much or how little the King’s
influence counted for peace in the recent negotiations.
Judging by the silence of English speakers and news-
papers on the subject, nobody else outside Cabinet circles
appears to know. In America and on the Continent they
either know or assume a larger knowledge. New York
Tribune says “it is generally believed that the King
dictated the conciliatory terms granted to the Boers,”
and N.Y. Sun states that “ the King’s wishes have
hastened the conclusion of peace.” Paris Figaro says
that “ the King’s peaceful will has found a way,” and
other Continental papers give him the credit of having
acted as peacemaker. It is not improbable. At all
events, the supposition that it is true is contributing
largely to the popularity which he enjoys to a greater
extent than any other King who has occupied the English
throne for centuries.
By the way, the D.T. special correspondent is
Mr. L. J. Brient, the paper’s late editor, who finds
his change to England a most profitable and
agreeable one.
A SCIENTIFIC PICK-ME-UP.—“No better
tonic and restorative for the victims of social fes-
tivities exists than a morning draft of Hunyadi
Janos. Sure, swift, searching, yet safe, and in
every respect salutary. The best and safest
natural aperient.*
“Veteran”: Ee the trouble at that
London review between Colonel Cameron, com-
manding the Australian troPps, and General Sir
H. Trotter: S’African contingent experience is
evidently not a good preparation for ceremonial
soldiering. Probably, “ Senator Colonel Cyril St.
Hilair Cameron, C. 8., D. 5.0.,” was unequal to
moving his men with the necessary speed and
regularity, and Gen. Trotter took the words of
command out of his mouth, and possibly added
some contumelious remarks. But really Cyril
ought to have known better than to give back-
talk to his superior officer on parade, no matter
how gross the provocation. He had his remedy
in a complaint to the Commander-in-Chief. When
he chose to openly resent Trotter’s conduct, he
should not have had recourse to mediation and
accepted pardon “because he knew no better,”
but should have gone through with the quarrel
like a man of spirit. It is doubtful if the War
Office could even have removed him from his
command.
s
QUID
Dunlop Rubber Goods
\\\'\\A\\w\\NMaaßi
DUNLOP
PEIOBS AND SAMPLES ON APPLICATION.
Mine Managers,
Engineers, &c.,
should note that our
Suction, Air, Steam
and Engine Hose
is absolutely the
Finest & Most Durable. Quality
and Price the Best in Australia.
We also make Valves, Packing,
and all Rubber Goods necessary for
Engineering and Mining work.
Correspondence Invited.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
108 FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE.
And at Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N,Z.
N.S.W. Depot:
150 Clarence Street, Sydney.


TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SCRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Brooches at
Manufacturers’
Prices !
These Brooches are absolutely the best Brooch
values ever offered in Sydney. Why ? Because
they are sold at the same prices at which
many jewellers buy to sell at Retail!
12/6.
They are beautifully designed, are solid 9c. Gold,
Hall-Marked.
Thousands of Brooches to Choose from.
L. I. FLEGELTAUB,
WATCHMAKER and JEWELLER,
96 KING ST., SYDNEY (and at London).
Cheapest House in Australia for EDISON
Phonographs *Records
“BIJOU,” with 6 Records f 1 10 0
EDISON “STANDARD,” with 12 Records .. 510 0
EDISON “ HOME,” with 24 Records .. .. 810 0
COMBINATION A 1 “GRAND,” taking both
Large and Small Records, with 12 Records, 6
Concert (sin.) Records and Large Horn .. 1010 0
EDISON RECORDS, English and American,
per dozen .. .. .. .. .. .. 100
CONCERT (sin.) RECORDS, per dozen.. ..300
Send for Splendid New
Illustrated Catalogue
containing 5000 Selec-
tions to choose from.
Electric Fans, with Bat-
tery, £5 ; Electric Bike
Lamps, '2ls ; Flash
Lights, Scarf Pin Lights,
10s 6d ; Vapour Bath
Cabinets, 20s ; &c., Free.
Records can be posted
to any address.
Machines carefully
packed and forwarded
to any part of Austra-
lasia.
REEVES & CO..
KING WILLIAM ST., ADELAIDE
edieal Batteries
IAJE Stock all the Best Makes,
* ■ and owing to the enormously-
increased demand that has arisen for
them during the last few years as a
Remedial Agent for Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago, etc., and all Nervous Complaints, we are able to announce very
considerably reduced prices.
MAGNETO ELECTRIC MACHINES-
12s. 6d.
WMNETOELECTRICMA
12s. 6d.
These are simply worked by turning a handle and need no chemicals whatever. We have just landed
a large stock and can quote specially low prices
No. I.—A good instrument (usually sold at a Guinea), 12s. 65., post, lid.
No. 2.—Larger size (more powerful), 255., post, Is. 2d.
No. 3.—Yery powerful indeed, 355., post, Is. Bd.
Dr. GAIFFE'S MEDICAL BATTERY.
Price, £1155.,
Post
Free.
This is the best and most popular instrument made, and the one most frequently recommended by
medical men. It is Small, Portable, Simple and Very Powerful and is fitted with a set
of instruments so that it may be applied to various parts of the body.
Dr. MACKENZIE S MEDICAL BATTERY.
Price,
£JSS.
Complete
Post
Free-
Price
1355.
Complete
Post
Free.
This is the best instrument made, and if convenience in working, simplicity and power are of greater
consideration than a few shillings in cost, we recommend it above all others. It can be so nicely
regulated that a child can bear it, or made so strong that no one can. It is started instantly
with no trouble, and costs very little to maintain. A full set of instruments is supplied so that
the current may be applied to any part of the body and the chemicals necessary are provided and
also full instructions for working.
OSBORN & JERDAN,
“ MY OPTICIANS,”
393 GEORGE STREET
(Opposite V
ROYAL HOTEL/}
SYDNEY.
and 211 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Business, Robbery, etc.
There are two obvious ways of dealing with
transgressing Gents. One, either of which would prevent
the scandalous miscarriage of common justice to which
N.S.W. Supreme Court so systematically lends a hand,
The Judges should be compelled by law to pass to the
Attorney-General prima facie evidence of criminal acts
coming before them when considering charges against a
gent, one ; or Judges should only consider the question
of striking off the rolls after a gent, one has been con-
victed in a criminal court. Judges, by anticipating as
they do a criminal trial, in effect avert it.
* * • *
The bogus telegram figured again in a recent
Sydney false pretences case. A bricklayer supplied a
swindler with £55 “to perfect a new plague specific.”
The swindler represented himself as having just passed
as an M.D. and as being engaged in pathological research,
and in support showed his victim an alleged telegram
from Dr. Fiaschi “ congratulating him on his wonderful
success.” The evidence of a “ wire,” which can be sent
by anyone, is generally conclusive to the ignorant. That
anybody can send almost any telegram to himself never
seems to strike the average man.
* * * *
“Galvo” : Many people are curiously reluctant
to pay for skilled knowledge at a higher rate than the
laborer’s 7s. a day. A well-known N.S.W. lawyer once
asked me to fix up an electrical apparatus that he him-
self had vainly spent a whole day over. The fault took
me only about 3min. to rectify, and a bill for 6s. Bd. was
sent in. Gent. One, however, refused to pay more than
2s. 6d. on the ground that the job had taken such a little
while. More fortunate was an engineer who was wired
for from Melbourne to deal with a certain mine-pump,
after everybody in the mine had vainly tried to make it
resume duty. The expert set the pump working, listened
intently, and then with a hammer tapped hard on the
pipe near the valve, when the water immediately began
to flow. His account (which was promptly paid) was as
follows :
To putting pump right .. £0 5 0
To knowing how to do it .. 20 0 0
* » » *
“A Victim”: Why doesn’t N.S.W. Govt,
transfer deeds of land through the Lands Office ? There
are land-agents in every town in the State, yet a man
buying a piece of land has to pay a lawyer £3 10s. for a
transfer. lam the ninth purchaser of a piece of land—
about 70 acres—consequently there has been paid for
transfers £3l 10s. in all —out of which Govt, receives £9
95., leaving £22 Is. to go into the pockets of local sharks.
* * * *
Continually cropping up are instances of how
workmen are ever willing to help defeat enact-
ments expressly framed for their benefit. In a case re-
cently before a Melb. court a horse-driver who had been
employed upon Govt, work deposed that he had been
paid only 12s. 6d. per week and keep, although his em-
ployer, the owner of the horse dray, should have paid
him 7s. per day in accordance with the minimum-wage
principle. And also recently, at the same court, an
engine-driver acknowledged 'that he had been in the
habit of signing the weekly pay-sheet as having received
£2 10s.—his actual pay being only £1 12s. 6d. Evidently
the working man needs to be saved from himself, as
much as from the greed of the capitalist ; and not much
is to be expected from protective legislation while the
unscrupulous employee is willing to conspire with the
unscrupulous employer to defeat the object of such
measures.
* * * *
The plaint of a jam-maker:—
The Tasmanian jam-manufacturing industry is in a bad
way. Prices for jam are so low that the makers really
cannot afford to give the grovvers anything like a decent
price for fruit. Tons of small fruits were last season
allowed to rot in the gardens. There are too many jam-
factories in the Commonwealth. Outside markets are not
extensively profitable, as immediately Australian jam,
made with sugar costing £2O a ton, comes into
open competition with English and European,
made with sugar costing only £8 per ton, we
are undone. Unless the public will come to our
rescue with an extra id. per tin, the Lord only knows
what will happen. Some of us will go to the wall, that’s
certain. The only way to deal with over-production is to
restrict it. We can do nothing, though, if the duty is
reduced.
Which all means that an attempt is to be made
very soon to amalgamate all the present Commonwealth
jam co.’s, with the object of restricting the output and
raising prices. If there is any guarantee that the growers
will get more for their fruit, and that the workers will
receive a decent wage for their toil in the fac-
tories, worse things may happen than the threat-
ened rise of £d. a tin on the price of jam. But if
there is to be a jam-ring in the Commonwealth, there
must be strict regulation of labor conditions. If owners
object to regulation they must have no ring.
* * * *
“Via”: Wonderful how many Australians
waste good time searching for their names in the various
“ Missing Friends” and “Unclaimed Chancery Money”
lists now posted all over Australasia. Met one poring
fruitlessly. “ No, he hadn’t any relatives at home, not
that he knew of ; but, by gum, there’s a name here like
mine, and I’ll get the old woman to write about it.”
Such are the folk who let the water run to waste in good
years and get corns on their knees in drought-time trying
to alter Nature’s immutable laws.
* * * •
T’other day, a Cingalese gob the option of £lO,
or two months, for assisting a prohibited immigrant into
the country. In evidence, it came out that accused had
first induced a colored brother to leave his steamer
and, having got him ashore, ran him on board
again as a deserter, for which act a trusting and grateful
steamship co., with its £lOO liability looming large ahead,
thankfully rewarded him to the amount of £2 10s. Only
that the victim blabbed, there was the makings of a
generous income in the scheme for the dusky inventor.
* * * *
A youth, now in trouble at Melbourne, when
arrested, threw considerable light on the methods
of the local pawnbrokers. He confessed that he had
started annexing jewellery—the property of his employers
—six weeks after getting the billet, and in eight months
got away with over £6OO worth, without said employers
missing a single article. All of this was pawned. “ I
don’t know,” said he, “how some of those gentry never
‘ tumbled,’ because I always used a different name, and
went to some of them many times.” One of the said
“uncles’’gave a hint why he never “ tumbled,” when
he pleasantly told the youngster to “ come again when-
ever he got hold of more jewellery.” Most of the pro-
ceeds went into the capacious hands of Moses’ brother
Ikey, on the racecourse.
* * * •
The business humor of the bald, faded man who
sells you socks and so on ! One Melbourne mercer pre-
sents his customers with a neatly-printed “ identification
card.” You write in your name and address, adding the
size of your hat, collar, &c., and supply the name of the
person vou wish to be notified in case of sudden death in
the street. To these particulars is added the name and
address of the melancholy mercer, who hopes for a good
advt. when you are mangled by a tram or garrotted. In
Sydney the idea might be tried ; it would be a great
comfort to people who have to walk through Sandbag
Park at night.
* • * *
“ Tuna ” : A front-rank mean-man is the dodger
who gets his consulting work done for_ nix, and he’s very
numerous. I had recently to submit a tender for a
certain small engineering job, and was asked by the
manager of the concern for a complete specification of the
work proposed A few days afterwards I had the pleasure
of seeing an exact copy of my specification at the office
of a friendly rival. Typed copies had been sent to every
likely firm in Sydney on the off-chance of saving a couple
of pounds.
* • * *
“A.” on the day-labor question in N.S.W. :
“ Prom talk with several disgusted departmental en-
gineers, I can strongly confirm the remarks of a Govt,
officer on day-labor (8., 5/7/’O2). Said engineers had
looked forward to day-labor as a means of getting better
experience in the handling of men—a bigger task than is
usually believed—but the way it has been used as a
stalking-horse by political spongers and loafers has
sickened them. On one job with which writer was con-
cerned as an outside contractor for certain special work,
engineer in charge sacked the foreman-bricklayer because
the men under him were only laying 600 bricks a
day (a competent man’s day’s work is 800 to
1000), and engaged another, who, however, was,
through intimidation, afraid to start work. The case was
placed before the great Day-Labor Panjandrum, who re-
instated the sacked foreman, but lectured the men to
this effect: ‘ Now, you men must understand that the
success of day labor depends on the purity with which
the system is administered. In this instance it seems to
me that an injustice has been done to the foreman, so I
will give him his job back: but it is to be distinctly
understood that any man laying less than UOO bricks a
day will be instantly dismissed ! ’ And they have never
since laid * less than 400 ’ —but neither have they ever laid
more.’
* * * *
A large Sydney milk co. advertises for a clerk,
Hours, 3 a.m. to 10 a.m. ; wages, 15s. per week.
* * * •
A Melbourne man bought an art union ticket
from a Sydney church gamble some time back, and got
word he’d won the five-guinea lady’s gold watch. The
gold ticker was blessed and sent —duty, 3s. ; carriage, 25.,
etc. Value of ticker (in Bourke-st. shop), 12s 6d. —and it
wouldn’t work. The man raffled it; the winner swapped
it for a yard-dog ; the dog man pawned it with his uncle
and sold the ticket; and so on, until the five-guinea
lady’s gold ticker found its way back again to a big
church bazaar in Brunswick, to be again blessed —and
cursed.
How these drapers give the tricks away ! 1“ *
Brisbane customs case the expert witness deposed tnac
the “ woollen ” goods in dispute were cotton with some
“sweepings of devils’ dust and a little od put m tne
rove to give it a mellow feeling like wool.” This way
to the bargain-counter !


NO
TIME
TO
SPARE.
Hundreds are Hurrying
in Order not to be . . .
“TOO LATE.”
WILL YOU LAG BEHIND?
THE
TIME
IS
LIMITED.
These Hour-glasses tell our story better than words can. The New South Wales sale of the ENCYCLOPEDIA BRITAN NIC A
by The Daily Mail has reached a stage where it is certain that the remainder of the limited edition will be subscribed for on or before
another fortnight has passed. The limit of time and the limit of copies available are necessarily one dependent upon the other. The
copies still available are diminishing in number hour by hour as the sands in the upper half of an hour-glass drop into the lower half in
a steady, uninterrupted steam. Saturday, August 2nd, is the very last day of the offer.
tmiTANNKA
pgfNtfCLOP/fl)
Wi
RHUANNIOVi
Eft/HKriANNICAi m
THE orders received during the week by the Daily Mail for its great half-
price issue of the ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA show that the
Australian public see the force of our withdrawal announcement.
When so few days remain, people who have postponed sending their
orders begin to realise that delay means disappointment.
This is to be a great week in the history of the ENCYCLOPAEDIA
BRITANNICA.
Will you, who read this advertisement, join the throng who are determined
to secure the great library of reference, or will you wait until it is too late ?
Our half-price offer means, not only that you can secure the 25 volumes, com-
plete and unabridged, for less than half the regular cash price charged by Messrs.
A. and C. Black, the publishers of the work, but it means that also this half-price
is divided into easy serial payments.
You need only send ss. now in order to have the volumes promptly sent home
to you, then, after you have received them, while you are enjoying the use of this
wonderful collection of good reading and practical information, you complete
your payments at the rate of 12s. a month.
For less than sixpence a day vou can procure a book which was until recently
a rich man’s book, a book altogether beyond the reach of the average purchaser,
and if you delay an hour too long the opportunity will have irrevocably escaped
you. We mean word for word what we say when we announce the withdrawal of
our offer on August 2nd as an absolute and final ending of this great half-price
sale. We are not in a position to grant any indulgence, any extension of the time
limit. We have no power in the matter. The book is not our book. Our con-
tract’ enables us to offer The Times Reprint of the “ENCYCLO-
PAEDIA BRITANNICA ” for two weeks more, and then the former terms will
again be in force, the book will have passed out of our hands, and your chance
will have gone for ever. Surely you do not want to lag behind when so many of
vour neighbors are procuring upon such easy terms the great library of reference.
You can make sure of a set of the “ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA” if
you will only use to-day the Order Form which appears at the foot of this page.
About Bindings.
The Cloth Binding is as good as a cloth binding
can be, but so large and valuable a work as the
“ ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNIC A” deserves
a better binding, and cloth is only recommended
for those who cannot afford to pay the small
additional sum required to secure either the Half-
Morocco or the Three-quarter Levant binding.
The Half-Morocco binding is specially recom-
mended, not only on account of its rich appear-
ance and durability, but also because of its relative
cheapness as compared with the Three-quarters
and Full Morocco styles.
Extra Volume Free.
Every subscriber to the “ENCYCLOPAEDIA
BRITANNICA” will receive, without cost, an
extra (26th) volume of over 230 pages, giving
hundreds of suggestions for courses of reading
upon almost every imaginable topic, making the
Encyclopaedia available for every member of the
family who can read.
This “ Handbook of Systematic Readings ” has
just been prepared at a great expense, and re-
quired the combined labors of three eminent
] rofessors four years to prepare.
PAYMENT
pv
:■
k
9t>Q
%
v/OV
25
the
A Great Work in
Miniature for Id.
The work itself is more eloquent than any
description could possibly be. You can assure
yourself of the truth of this at the expense of one
penny. Send us your name and address on a
Post Card and we will send you a handsome Pro-
spectus—a great work in miniature—containing
specimen pages and specimen articles ranging
from Education and Ethics to Apparitions
and the Game of Poker. The Prospectus con-
tains also coloured plates showing the most
exquisite and artistic designs of ancient pottery,
gorgeous examples of mediaeval wall decoration,
etc., etc. This Prospectus is costly to us ; but if
you have the least interest—not in buying the
“ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNIC A,” but in
finding out what it is like—we shall take pleasure
in sending to you the Prospectus post paid. But
it will be a kindness to us not to order it unless
you really want to know about the book.
This is Free.
rwvaoMiwswi
*]V "THf
/
HRITANNICA
\A
MONTHLY PAYMENTS—ORDER FORM.
The Subscriber should fill in and cut out this form and send it, with 5/ (or cheque In full), to address given below.
Cheques to be drawn to the order of the BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
To The Manages,
The “Daily Mail,”
New South Wales Office,
Mutual Life of New York Building,
P.O. Box 1612, Sydney.
Monthly payments to be made to the BANK OF NEW SOUTH
WALES. Only the first payment of ss. need be sent to the “Daily
Mail.” Subsequent payments to be made to the Bank of New South
Wales, Sydney, or any of its Branches.
.1902.
Prices under . Cash Plan of
Subscription given below.
Please send The Encyclopaedia Britannica, 25 Yols. (9th Edition) at the prices named below.
I enclose 5/-, and I agree to complete my purchase of the work as follows :
For the Cloth Bindings
For the Haßf Morocco ...
For the Three-quarter Levant
For the Full MorOCCO
The first of these monthly payments to be made upon the delivery of the complete 25 volumes, and the succeeding payments on the corres-
ponding day of each month following. Until such payments are complete I engage that the volumes, not being my property, shall not
be disposed of by sale or otherwise. I further agree that if, owing to unforeseen circumstances, of which you shall be the judge, the
volumes cannot be delivered, the return of the deposit of Five Shillings to me shall cancel this agreement.
Thirty further payments of 12/- per month.
>} » >J 16/“
» j> >j 18/- )>
» » 22/- „
Strike out three of
these lines.
Strike out adjoining ~|
paragraph if Bookcase J-
not desired. &ST J
Please also send a Revolving 1 Bookcase, for which I agree to make (after the payments for the JBooks have been
completed) further monthly payments of the same amount until I shall have paid 60 .Shillings for the
Bookcase.
r Bul - i
L Spec. 2 J
( Signed)_
(A ddress) ( Occupation)
Please Address the package to
Carriage free as far as Sydney. Beyond Sydney carriage paid by subscriber. The case containing the 25 vols. weighs about 210 lbs. Cost of
carriage may be learned upon application to local Railway and Steamship Agencies. The Bookcase weighs 84 lbs.
CASH SUBSCRIPTIONS—PRICES.
The prices have been fixed at the lowest possible point for the benefit of those who prefer to make Monthly payments. A discount averaging
10 per cent, on the Monthly payment prices is allowed on subscriptions accompanied by cash in full. Those who prefer to pay cash in advanct
should therefore remit as follows:—Cloth, £l7; Half Morocco, £22; Three-quarter Levant, £24:; Full Morocco, £29. It Bookcase io
desired, <£3 additional should be remitted.
THESE PRICES APPLY EXCLUSIVELY TO SUBSCRIPTIONS RECEIVED NOW IN RESPONSE TO THE PRESENT OFFER.
=?
encyclopedia
y
[ninth edition
25 Royal Bvo. Vols,
BOOKS ON VlEW.—Specimen Volumes may be examined, and Orders booked at
NICHOLSON and CO.’S Music Warehouse, George-street, Sydney.


The Bulletin Story Book (price 5s.
post-free from The Bulletin office) has been
everywhere hailed as by far the best book of
Australian stories and sketches yet published.
All the best-known Australian writers, for the
last ten years, are represented; and, both for
interest and literary value, the selection is un-
surpassed in this country.*
Rarely is the tobacco plant seen in South
Australia. An occasional old German settler in
the hills, guided originally by botanists Muller
and Schomburgh, grows a little, but only for hom«
consumption. The fair success of Vic. growers,
added to promises of a market in Adelaide, has,
however, now led a few in the S.E. to prepare ex-
perimental plots. The difficulty will be in the
curing ; they know nothing of the business them-
selves, and S.A. has no expert on hand.
There has not been a more interesting
Australian book published for a long time than
“Bushman and Buccaneer”—giving the life and
writings of Harry Morant (“The Breaker”).
Every bushman will want to buy a copy for the
sake of the complete collection of “The Breaker’s”
verses which it contains. The book gives a photo-
graphic reproduction of the “ copy ” of Morant’s
last verses, written in gaol, and many illustrations,
from authentic photographs, of the Bush veldt
Carbineers’ operations. Price one shilling
Wholesale from Edwards Dunlop and Co., Syd-
ney.— Advt.
Amusements.
JHEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of Hr. GEORGE MUSGROVE.
FAREWELL PERFORMANCES of
GEORGE MUSGROVE’S
NEW ENGLISH DRAMATIC COMPANY-
TWO FAREWELL NIGHTS of
MISS NELLIE STEWART,
in the Most Charming Comedy of the Century,
Sv/wt Nsll of Old PrOry.
Every Evening at 8. Matinees, Wed., 2 p.m.
TIIOS. P. HUDSON.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
■ Lessee .. .. .. Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Under the Direction of .. Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative .. .. Mr. Allan Hamilton.
SATURDAY, 19th JULY,
THE BROUGH COMEDY COMPANY.
First Production in Sydney of
WHEN WE WERE TWENTY-ONE,
a Play in Four Acts, by H. Y. Esmond.
OS’ MATINEE EVERY THURSDAY, at 2. ‘m
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
IYCEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■■ Lessee Mr. Wm. Anderson.
Sub Lessee .. ~ Bland Holt.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING, BLAND HOLT’S
Great Attraction,
THE GREAT RUBY.
POPULAR PRICES—3s,, 25., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee .. .. MAUD WILLIAMSON.
TO-NIGHT, and EVERY EVENING at 8.
LAST EIGHT NIGHTS of the Ever-Populur
WOODS - WILLIAMSON COMPANY
in the Most Successful of all Melodramas,
HANDS ACROSS THE SEA.
POPULAR PRICES—3s., 25., and One Shilling.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDN W.
Lessees .. .. Messrs. LEE and RIAL.
Sub-Lessee .. Mr. FRANK THORNTON.
Representative, Mr. Mayne. Agent, Mr. H. P. Lyons.
THORNTON COMEDY SEASON.
SEVENTH WEEK and LAST NIGHT BUT ONE of
the Funniest Farce-Comedy of the Day,
FACING THE MUSIC.
As played at the Strand Theatre, London, with enormous
success, for over 300 nights.
Preceded at 8 o’clock by the Musical Farce, A TEST MATCH
by Bower and Fitzgibbon. Music by Guy Jones.
SATURDAY EVENING NEXT, for the First Time in
Australia, the Sparkling and Unique Comedy in 3 Acts,
entitled, A LITTLE RAY OF SUNSHINE.
PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and One Shilling. Box Plan
on view at Elvy’s.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harrv Rickards
MONDAY, JULY 21, Re-appearance of
PAUL CINQUEVALLI.
SAT., JULY 19, First Appearance in Australia of Mr.
MARC ANTHONY.
BARNEY FAGAN and HENRIETTA BYRON, TOM
WOOTTWELL, WILLIAMS QUARTETTE, BABY
PARKES, &c., &c.
Prices as Usual. Matinees Wednesday and Saturday.
Rickards* new opera house,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mr. HARRY RICKARDS.
EVERY EVENING, at 8 p.m.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS at 2.30 p.m.
THE JACKSON FAMILY.
MR. and MRS. SIDNEY DREW.
HARRIS and WALTERS. PROF. MACCANN.
L LULU ZESCH. DORA TAYLOR. ERNEST BRINKMANN
THE WILTON BROS.,
The Greatest Horizontal Bar Act Extant.
Prices—2s. 6d., 25., Is., and 6d. Plan at Allan’s.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee Mr. Bland Holt.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. William Anderson.
Bus. Manager, James Hendv. Treas., Julius Grant.
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION, headed by Miss EUGENIE DUGGAN.
EVERY EVENING, the Latest London Success.
The First Time in Melbourne,
THE 10.30 DOWN EXPRESS,
An Entirely New and Sensational Melodrama.
Prices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. George Musgrove.
EVERY EVENING,
The Phenomenal Operatic Success of England & America,
A CHINESE HONEYMOON,
Now Exceeding its 300th Performance at the Strand
Theatre, London.
fSP” Prices as Usilal. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Wednesday Matinees.-
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of -Mr. J. O. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, R. Stewart. Treas., E. J. Tait.
FRIDAY, JULY 18, LAST NIGHT of IO LAN THE
and TRIAL BY JURY*
SATURDAY, JULY 19, for the First Time in Australia,
the Famous Gaiety Musical Play,
THE GAIETY GIRL.
Prices as Usual. '§£& Box Plan at Allan's.
JEAKT GERARUY.
THE GREATEST LIVING VIOLONCELLIST.
Direction of A. H. CANBY.
MISS ELECTA GIFFORD, SOPRANO.
GOOTFRIED GALSTON, PIANIST.
Sydney TOWN HALL, Commences 24th JULY.
Brisbane „ „ 6th AUCUST.
JOHN 11. TAIT, Manager.
My Melbourne correspondent continues:—
“The espionage necessary on the part of
mammas during the last three months of rehearsal
for the amateur performance of the ‘Runaway
Girl.’ has caused much anxiety. They will be
passing glad to see the full-fledged production.
Their anxieties, in the first place, as to who was
to be in the show, soon gave place to fear of the
fashion of the clothes prescribed, of the kind of
love-making allowed, of the degree of the high-
kicking, of the steeple-chasing, and so on. Every
chaperone will rejoice when the ‘ Girl ’ has had
her last run, and no ewe-lamb is found to be miss-
ing on strayed-sheep terms.
“One of the engagements of the month owes its
origin to mixed pairs’ competitions on the golf-
links. The caddy who knows what’s fair is of
great help in these little affairs. When the pair
are just friendly, the caddy plays chaperone, finds
the balls readily, makes the ‘ tee ’ promptly, and
imparts a bright, brisk element to the game. He
sends the players away well satisfied with them-
selves. Neither tempers nor balls are lost under
his guiding footsteps. As the pair grow more
friendly, and begin to hit recklessly, the caddy
loses his alertness. He loses the balls, too, wan-
ders over the hills looking for them, and forgets
to come back. He earns double fare that day,
and he learns to appreciate the value of tact.
Thus is the ‘ linked ’ sweetness drawn out, and
the witching time of soft sighfulness contributed
to by a youth who isn’t there.
“AMelb. matron, who may be charged with
the pleasant negligence of a hasty pen, wrote to a
Toorak Lady Teazle anent a discharged servant: —
She came from you without a caracter. If you could
give her one (she’s a pleasant, willing young pwrson), you
would save me a lot of suspense and parlez-vous.
“Janet Lady Clarke is still having honors
thrust upon her raven head. By the birth of a
son to Mrs. Francis Grenville Clarke, a few weeks
ago, in England, the dowager becomes a grand-
mamma in her own right. Previously she was
only a step-grandmamma.
“ A recent wealthy bridegroom of the fossil type
relates with pleased feelings how brief was his
love-catching, his courtship, and more than sweetly
brief his knot-tying. ‘I could not bear to see my
dear girl arrayed in all that white raiment,
wax-works finery. I just walked her down
Chapel-st. (Prahran), marched her into a
registrar’s office (which I had previously
inspected and investigated), and in two minutes
the trick was done. Advanced bachelors all hold
the same view. It is whispered that one fat
Collins-street Dives, who is anxious for a help-
mate, sound in wind and limb, and with a clean
bill of health, has been blocked every time by the
girl (chosen expressly from the Faith of his
Fathers) jibbing at the request to cut the ivory
bridal display and the church blessing, for the
simple and expeditious, married-while-you-wait
formula of the matrimonial agency. The ‘ other
cat ’ always regards a marriage which is not in
the fullest sense coram publico with a suspicious
sniff; and one doesn’t marry a rich elderly man
for his own sake, but with an eye to the luxury
of triumphing over the cat aforesaid.
“The opening of this year’s Victorian Artists’
Exhibition at the Albert-street galleries was more
of asocial than an art function. The hanging of
two of Mrs. Willie Robb’s pictures was certainly
a draw. The languid lady, who used to be so
pretty an ornament herself, has now taken
to painting her pretty friends’ faces —Miss
Ernestine Burgess is the original of one
picture, and Miss Ida Fenner of the other.
They are very fair samples of industry and
skill, and sassiety women were loud in praise.
Mayor Gillott’s inaugural speech was just such a
travesty of taste as the speech he made at Grace
Palotta’s at-home. The knighted Samuel may be
a good, sensible man of the law, and a common-
sense alderman, but he should be severely
switched-off all art and social grace-sayings.
“The canvases of Lady Sargood and Pastor
Bevan, being over-idealised, suffered greatly by
the presence of the originals in the Gallery.
G. P. Nerli has made the woolly pas-
tor a shade younger than he is, and has
forgotten to impart the characteristic pinkish glow
to the cheeks that ripens from the healthfulness
of the veteran’s blood. All the women stood and
gazed their fill at the weird ‘ Fantasy ’ of Bernard
Hall. They wondered greatly if ever the con-
sumption of wine when it is golden led to visions
of legs and ladies so airy, so disconnected, so
extraordinary as those poised in mid-air over the
midnight lamp in the ‘ art decorator’s ’ picture.
“ George Jenkins of the Beard pulls a long face
these days when wags dig him facetiously in the
ribs and ask are there any more Royal razzles on
the cards. He looks gravely at the joker and
corrects the levity by relating some of the
incidents that made his heart bleed in those
glory days. Something like four millions
clamoured for invitations, and George had
only 25,000 to meet the demand. The pain
of refusal weighed heavily on his mind. ‘I
found it hard to be cruel,’ says George, tenderly,
casting his mental eye back on that troubled time.
‘ Fancy a good woman coming to me with a little
three-year-old toddler, whom the poor soul de-
clared could play 50 mazurkas from memory, and
couldn’t the Dook hear her ? Now fancy that ? ’
And the Fat One’s eyes fill with tears as he con-
jures up tlie fond mother’s shattered hopes.
“ Women are crowding to Rickards’ these nights
to see the diamond riddle on a large, luminous
singer’s neck. The diamond spray must be sewn
to the chest, for no sign of wire, string, or fasten-
ing to hold it to the skin can be detected by the
strongest glasses.
“ A progressive Brighton dame started a novelty
in guessing-competitions at a tea-crush, the other
day. Cards were handed to each of the guests,
embracing 30 questions, answers to which were
destined to form a floral tale of love. A know-
ledge of flowers was essential to prize-winners,
and an hour was given for the work of guessing.
The mercury that afternoon bubbled up to fever
point, and excited women nibbled the ends of their
pencils, and bit at their glove-tips in a wild effort
to think out witty answers. Silver and ivory
glove-stretchers rewarded the most successful
guessers.
“Householders have at last entered a protest
against ping-pong abuses. Carpets are worn
threadbare at the two ends of the room where the
players charge from, and strips of matting are
called into use to cover the patches. Other furni-
ture equally suffers.
“‘Our doctor,’ in a local evening paper,
answers some naive queries. * Perplexed ’ lately
asked : ‘ I have a lady friend who makes a peculiar
noise in her sleep ; a sort of grunting comes
apparently from the back of her nose, following a
short barking gasp.’ ‘Our doc.’ sagely replied:
‘Perhaps your friend snores.’ Let us hope, by
the way, that ‘ Perplexed ’ being only a ‘friend,’
is also a lady. The legal expert in the same
journal has some quaint queries and his column is
good reading, especially in the divorce season.
“ There doesn’t seem to be much glory in getting
married at St. Patrick’s Cathedral., Decorations
are not allowed; even the marking-off of seats is
not permitted; entree-cards are denied, and a
bride has to face the music up that long, cold aisle
before the general public with not a sprig of green
to break the view, and not a leaf to soften the
rigid outline of the scene. TheR.C. Cathedral is
more a mounting for an ‘ln Memoriam ’ service
than for a chiffon spectacle.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.
At Poverty Point.
Pollard’s Juvenile Opera 00. seems to have struck the
Canadians with amazement. Australia is a wonderful
country for theatrical kiddies. Its proportion of infant
—especially female infant—population that can sing,
dance and act is perhaps fifteen times larger than the
midget mummer population of any other English-speaking
land.
Stated that Australian tenor Jules Simonsen has
escaped the remainder of his brutal 12 years’ sentence for
burglary, by suiciding in a Yankee gaol.
The picture given by The Bulletin of Lauri’s crowd
following the Man from Cook’s, has caused much ques-
tioning of spirit in Adelaide, where the obstacles in the
famous Chase so far (and the play has twice been revived)
have consisted of the low end of a wall, and an offered
“ back ” at leap-frog—declined by the ladies. No hurdles
or other artificial jumps. The dance has been well
received, but Adelaide has an uneasy feeling that it is not
getting quite so much for its money as other more giddy
capitals.
Seems probable that Hobart conceals the makings
of a good show town, after all. During the past
year a considerable series of good shows have done excel
lent business in the wretched little theatre by the open
sewer, down in Wapping. And now Fuller, running a
continuous variety show in the biggest Hobart hall, is
steadily making money. If somebody would put up a
decent theatre on a decent site Hobart would easily sup-
port a constant run of good companies. Perhaps “ Tat-
tersall ” will come to the rescue.
“ Bob ” Riddell, the late husband of Maggie Stirling,
was a very good musician—as tailors go —and it was he
who started his wife on her singing career. The story
goes that Riddell’s ear for music received an uninten-
tional shock the night before he died. A reverend gen-
tleman—so says the tale —visited the dying patient, and
sang to him “ Nearer, My God, to Thee.” Poor Riddell
let the shepherd warble on, and made no complaint until
the soloist had departed. Then he turned to a friend in
the room and said, “ He couldn’t sing to save his life !”
“T.D.”: Overheard a young fellow in the train giving
his opinion of ‘ ‘ lolanthe,” j ust reproduced by Williamson.
He thought it wasn’t a patch on “ Florodora,” and would
sooner have seen even the sadly-disappointing “ Casino
Girl.” Considered Gilbert’s libretto twaddle, and expressed
entire disapproval of Sullivan as a composer of light
music. And present-day appreciation is exemplified by a
glance round the theatre, all parts. Practically the
whole audience any night last week ranged from fat and
forty to lean and octogenarian, and they all chuckled
reminiscently, like a sinful old party reviewing the mil-
dewy catalogue of the girls he has deceived. But Capt.
Shaw is no more to the Australian man of 30 than Supt.
Stein to the populace of Vladivostock, and I might
irreverently suggest that there will shortly be a golden
opportunity for the person facile and Gilbertian enough
to give the faded lyrics a varnishing here and there.
Beerbohm Tree, undoubtedly boss “swell” in London
theatrical world since Irving lost his position, contrived
to engage Mrs. Kendal and Ellen Terry for a recent
revival of the “ Merry Wives of Windsor.” The dis-
tinguished rivals had not previously played together in
one and the same production since they were children,
though they must sometimes have been fellow con-
tributors to a benefit matinee programme. Tree got
them for the parts of Mistress Page and Mistress Ford,
and presumably they arranged the precedence difficulty
by each drawing the name of her character from the
Beerbohmic hat. What else could a manager do with two
“ star ” ladies, both of them tall, shapely, fair, and 55, or
thereabouts?
“P.X.”: Australian newspapers don’t gush over what
Australians do in England only ; they gush over what
any showman does in the next town—or their own town
if they dare. It’s either business or habit, or the tired-
ness, that lets any agent write your paper for you. I
read, a day or two ago, that a certain travelling co. was
“ playing to crowded business” in S.A. Within the week
I had read in an up-country S.A. rag that the boss of
that _ very co. _ had been sentenced to one month’s
imprisonment in Gladstone gaol for failure to pay a
printer’s bill. Funnier still, this poor printer himself had,
only a fortnight before that, a shimmering eulogy of
this Co. and ail its works in his own “ organ." But that
was before the distinguished performers got out by the
back road.
“ A.D.” : Be your remarks (“ P.P.,”28/6/’O2) concerning
Sarah Bernhardt’s Adelaidean board and residence : She
stopped at that snug hostelry, S.A. Club Hotel, where
present writer had the divine honor of meeting her
coram a certain incomparable Adelaide lawyer, who main-
tained a severe siege of Helen of Paris, but owing to his
knowledge of ‘‘French" being just slightly superior to
that of the Jaynial Dan, he was only able to make a slight
impression. The one humorous and almost tragic inci-
dent that occurred off the stage was when the fair one
was leaving Adelaide after her six nights’ season. She
and the co. were originally supposed to depart for Melb.
by s.s., but owing to the A.S.S. Co. being unable to pro-
vide a separate state cabin for some of the fauna and
flora that invariably accompanied her, she point-blank
refused to travel by ce miserable paquebot Australien,
though the captain had previously placed his cabin at her
disposal. Result: departure by Melb. express next day.
The scene enacted on this dramatic exit is probably still
engraven deep on the cerebral tissue of the late chairman
of the S.A.R. Commissioners. Owing to a mistake,
the wagons lits of Sarah and her companion
were not placed in exact juxtaposition. None
of the officials quite understanding in 30secs.
the divine one’s demand that she wanted “ Deux
sleepings ici a l’instant,” there ensued such a torrent of
choice Parisian argot as has probably never before or
since been heard in Tramgrabopolis. “ Sacres, mille
tonnerres” and deistic entrails were simply not in it.
Joey Smith, the aforesaid Comm., hearing the tumult,
incautiously appeared on the scene. With a wild cry of
“ voila le cochon ! ” the golden-voiced one made a wild
rush for Joseph, who did the record sprint along the
platform (late train passengers not excluded) for his
private office, and, having securely barricaded himself
therein, only reappeared when the whistle told him that
the Frenchwoman and her “ deux sleepings ” were being
whirled towards Melbourne.
A private letter from a non-theatrical Londoner, says :
“ Irving is quite broken and old, and mumbles more than
ever. The revival of ‘Faust’ is very poorly mounted
compared to what it used to be—in spite of what the
papers say. Ellen Terry is nearly done for, but Cissy
Loftus in her character of Marguerite is quite ridiculous.’*
A popular turn at the London ’alls just now is supplied
by 12 collie dogs. Each dawg has a harmonium arrange-
ment in front of it, and all in good order they play “ Blue
Bells of Scotland ” with their paws.
“ J. A. 0.” : Once saw—at the Fossati Theatre, Milan—a
play in which the villain had to shoot a virtuous old
gentleman. The pistol missed fire, whereupon the mis-
creant administered a severe kick in the rear to the un-
suspecting ancient, who immediately fell forward ex-
claiming, “ Muojo avvelenato 1 ” (“I die, poisoned.”)
The lecture on Centralia, in Melbourne Town Hall, by
Baldwin Spencer, the Melbourne University Professor of
Biology, was an expurgated edition of the real thing. The
unexpurgated lecture is to be delivered “ to men only,"
with lantern slides, cinematograph views, and phono-
graphic records, at the University Club.
The three Lelliotts, said to be Australians, are men-
tioned by ’Murkan papers as a clever and humorous
musical trio. Who were the Lelliotts before they went
abroad ?
A pressman, writing from Calcutta, speaks words of
warning to theatrical managers. “ Tommy,” he says, “ is
not coming back from S’Africa rolling in wealth ; so far,
he can scarcely be said to be coming back at all. Any
show coming out to rely on the regiments will fall in. In
the cities Brough and others have raised the standard,
and you must give 'em good stuff. There are lots of pros.-
stranded in India just now, and they deserve all they
get.”
“ S.”: Tom Nawn, as the cheerful Irishman in the
latest farce, says : “They’ve left off hangin’. Whin they
want to kill a man now, they kill him wid elocution.”
True, and it’s a terrible death to die. But sometimes the
worm turns. Was at a mixed entertainment in a Melb.
suburb, on a recent night, when, after many things had
happened, a nice, mild, curly young man drifted on to
the platform, shed a reassuring smile, and began to recite
a long “ pome ” of Australian make. The nice young
man recited awfully—like a disinterested person making
remarks in his sleep—gesticulating the while with all the
emotion of a pickled eel. He had reached about midway
along the poem when suddenly a man rose in the audi-
ence, uttering a bad word, and hurled a large apple at
the elocutionist. The pippin took the nice young person
in the middle of the forehead, and occasioned another
fall of man. The reciter spun off the platform, landing
on his neck, and was gathered up unconscious. His
assailant was seized, but had so eloquent an excuse to
offer that he was permitted to depart in peace. He was
the Author of the Poem, he said.
Statement by Rev. W. W. Rutledge, at
Sydney Orange pow-wow this month : —
I was glad on entering to see a number of blue-jackets
coming to the meeting. I want to tell them, whom he (Card.
Moran) basely and flagrantly insulted, that he has had to
apologise to the British Admiralty. (Cheers.) The
Admiralty heard these base slanders, and some of us won-
dered that they were allowed to go unanswered, but I
am glad to know that they did not allow the thing to
pass. (Cheers.) There is now in the hands of the
authorities at home Cardinal Moran’s humble apology
ready for publication if the time or opportunity re-
quires it.
Fact, or what ?
Lord Salisbury’s retirement, announced on
Tuesday, is chiefly important because of the choice
of his successor. Salisbury himself is" weary old
cynic, with a fondness for analytical chemistry
and high diplomacy, and a great capacity for
being bored by popular politics. In the days of
Elizabeth he would have been an ideal English
Minister ; in the early Victorian days he was
not altogether anomalous ; in Edward’s reign,
Salisbury is as uncomfortable as Coriolanus seek-
ing the suffrages of the Roman electors. He
has long wished for peace, wherein he could
say a cynical thing about a black man, or about
the habit of great men to lose their heads,
without being called by the newspapers before the
bar of the “greasy mob” and forced to show his
diplomatic wounds to get forgiveness. Now he
has gained it, and, characteristically, refuses even
the dukedom offered him as the reward of his
services: a dukedom nowadays would have to his
taste a “ mob ” flavor about it, and be accordingly
hateful. But it is the fact that Balfour, and not
Chamberlain, follows Salisbury that is the really
important political development of the week.
Chamberlain’s last chance has now gone, and his
betrayal of principle for the sake of being one “of
the gentlemen of England” is rewarded finally with
the second place in their councils. Chamber-
lain, with his capacity for doing the dirty work of
a political party, is invaluable to “the gentle-
men,” but they are resolute on keeping him out of
the best drawing-room.
Salisbury, in retiring from the British
Premiership, hands along the hereditary job of
governing the British people to his nephew,
Balfour. The little knot of “noble families”
who own and govern Britain are always handing
the job along in this fashion, but Salisbury, who
filled Government billets with his relatives,
and his wife’s relatives, and the relatives of the
people his relatives were married to, carried
nepotism to an unusual extent, even for England.
In the last 90 years Britain has had 28 Minis-
tries, including the one just formed. Nine of
them have been headed by an earl, three by a
marquis, three by a viscount, three by some other
kind of a lord, two by a baronet, one by a duke,
and only seven by commoners. Of course it was,
to a great extent, the same man recurring over
and over again. The separate Premiers num-
bered 16—one baronet, eleven peers, one com-
moner who became a peer, and three other
commoners. About two-thirds of the subordi-
nate offices of the Cabinet have been filled
by peers, the sons of peers bearing “courtesy”
titles, and baronets. They have varied from rich
to enormously rich; all the widening of the
suffrage that has taken place at various times has
brought the poor man and the landless man little
nearer to Cabinet office than he was before. And
they have mostly been old as well as rich. The
British ex-Minister doesn’t leave politics to hustle
for a crust. The crust is al ways there, so unless he
is driven out of the front place by some big disaster,
as Aberdeen was by the Crimean war, he and the
other fellow take turns at office, bar accidents, till
they die of old age. And by that time the next
man is pretty old also. Balfour, by reason of
being the nephew of his uncle, gets his chance
earlier than most—he is 54. Chamberlain is still
waiting, at the age of 66. Other rising young men
of 60 and 70 are also waiting. The procession of
rich old peers and peers’ relations which runs the
affairs of the empire moves very slowly.
A correspondent writes of something new
in butter-making :—
A Swedish co. has come along to Sydney with the
“Radiator” Combined Separator and Churn, which
should make the small cow-farmer absolutely
independent of the factory. The machine takes
up very little room, and is so simple that a child
can work it. The smallest machine the co.
makes can put through 55gals. milk per hour, which
represents about 221b. of butter, more or less according to
the quality of the milk. The largest can extract the
butter from 400gals. milk in one hour. There is no neces-
sity to keep the milk 10 minutes after milking. It can be
poured straight into the machine, which first of all pas-
teurises it, separates it, and then turns the separated pro-
duct into butter right away. The separated fluid and the
bntter-milk is then carried back automatically, and passed
through the machine once more, and every available scrap
of value extracted from it. This is bad for the poddy
calves, whose lot is to get the skim milk, but good for the
farmer. At present dairy butter is always reckoned third-
class and only used in pastry-making, etc. But
the farmer who takes to using the Radiator ought
to be in a position to demand top prices for his product.
In addition to being a machine for the small man, the
sanitary advantages of the Radiator are great. The milk
is turned into butter as soon as it comes from the cow.
It does not have to be carried in cans that may or may not
be clean. It is not mixed with all sorts and conditions of
milk where the product of one diseased cow may poison
that of a thousand others. Each particular drop is pasteur-
ised previous to entering the separator and churn, and the
manufactured butter can be'packed much more securely
from contamination than the raw milk can, and carried
with greater safety to the consumer at less cost to the
farmer. It takes, on an average, 251b. of milk to make one
of butter, and if the farmer turns his milk into butter
before sending it to market he saves the carriage on
241b. of weight in one act. It has been objected
that the Radiator butter will not do for export,
being made of “ unmatured cream ” ; but just now, it is
making thousands of pounds of butter in Denmark and
Scandinavia for the British market, and there seems to
the lay mind no reason why it shouldn’t make as good
butter from absolutely fresh as from partly-stale cream.


DURING the reign of the good Queen Victoria, GREAT STRIDES TOWARDS SUCCESSFUL ISSUES were made by the Medical Faculty, and it was recognised that ELEC-
tbtgtt V TTTDTCTOTTSLY APPLIED proved a valuable and reliable aid, combined with reconstructive medicines, in the restoration of nerve and muscular strength. Scientists of
world wide celebrity including THREE PHYSICIANS TO THE LATE QUEEN, endorsed this fact in a practical sense and recognised that a current of medical electricity correctly
world wide U TV . >T o inrl ‘i degenerated vitality GAVE IT THAT NECESSARY VIGOR AND NEW LIFE essential to good and permanent Health. Following
poverty.!: bloods ireeguJaecirculation, acute neb-
VOUSNESS GENERAL DEBILITY, LIVER COMPLAINT, KIDNEY DISORDERS, and FUNCTIONAL and ORGANIC NERVE AIFECITONS.
paired,
they re
the same time wrimiMfogthrough'ti^lyTtemlpedally‘prepared''reconstructive remedies will be followed by less exhaustion after slight exertion, improved appe-
tite stronger digestion, increased desire to enjoy life happily, with ability to obtain natural, refreshing, life-giving sleep, and to sustain healthy and nerve-strengthening exercise. A standard of
general good health is assured which all men desire to possess and all men covet.
ONE FALSE STEP.
ONE FALSE STEP may mean a LIFE LOST, and
where a person suffers from a protracted N«rve-
Disorder or persistent Stomach or Kidney trouble,
it is best to act at once. Thousands of persons in
Australia to-day are languishing in pain, ignorant of the
fact that the SPECIALISTS of the
Freeman Institute
can, by their new methods of Medicine and Electricity,
relieve many of those diseases classed as “ INCURABLE ”
by the medical profession. In some instances only a few
weeks’ treatment is sufficient to ensure magical results, and
eradicate a complaint which had been racking the system
and draining the vitality for years.
Life cannot be Purchased,
but HEALTH CAN BE PRESERVED. THE WISE
MAN neglects no opportunity to retain the Health which
he knows is to him Success and Happiness, and the Wise
Physician evades no chance to eradicate disease when a
patient’s symptoms warn him of danger. Hesitation with
danger ahead is fatal. POVERTY is the
Train-Bearer of Disease
and PROSPERITY and PLENTY are the SERVANTS of
HEALTH. All Happiness waits upon the Healthy Man ;
the difficulties that beset life but invite him to victory. The
SPECIALISTS of the FREEMAN AND WALLACE
INSTITUTE make such men. PATIENTS FROM ALL
Parts of Australasia
consult them, and return again to the scenes of their
existence, HAPPY IN STRENGTH, PHYSICAL EX-
CELLENCE, AND CONSCIOUS POWER. From all
centres in Australia they daily receive grateful testimony
that they have made thousands of lives worth the living,
and have lightened the cares and brightened the homes of
countless afflicted ones.
i m iWj
ywwm
mmm*
Ml
Yt^zZ 3
Mr.
Joseph
Megson.
EFFECTIVE TREATMENT.
T
HE SPECIALISTS OF THE INSTITUTE guaran-
tee to cure any person who, through disordered
functional nerve-force or muscular power, finds that
Life has lost T much of the joy
that waits upon the strong, healthy and vigorous man.
This nerve-force can be regained, and perfect muscular
power restored to any system by adapting the SPECIA-
LISTS’ NEW SCIENTIFIC MEDICAL METHODS
OF RESTORING VITALITY TO THE ENFEEBLED
FRAME. To secure this strength
Ai) Electric “ INVKSORATOR ”
must be worn, which infuses into the jaded frame a
new current of magnetic electricity, the absence of which
proves the source of many grave nervous disorders. Men
who have not been successful in Life, who continually were
compelled to battle against menacing adversities, have been
cured. Whether their ill-health was due to disorders of
the KIDNEYS, LIVER, BLADDER,
IMPERFECT NERVE FORCE,
INSOMNIA, DYSPEPSIA, MENTAL IMPAIRMENT,
STOMACHIC DISORDERS, or functional derangement
of vital organs, they became strong and healthy men through
taking medical treatment and wearing superior ELECTRIC
“INVIGORATORS.” They are now happy as men can
be in the
Perfection of a Physical Plenitude,
and prove that men were not “made to mourn,” but to
enjoy Life to its fullest and completest measure.
The SPECIALISTS are in possession of testimonies
from some of the greatest professionals known in the world
of art and sport, who thank them in their letters for the
great good done them that
Only a Restored Man
CAN APPRECIATE. The “INVIGORATORS,” mo-
delled upon the plans of the greatest electricians of-the age,
are within the reach of all. Those sold at £ 1 ARE
SPECIALLY RECOMMENDED ; those purchased at
JBIQ contain £3 -worth of 18-ct. gold. There is no
case of weakness in men which they will not palliate and
cure.
STATUTORY TESTIMONIAL
Mm mCCDU MCOGfIM the Champion Cyclist of New South Wales, Is well known to everyone in the States of Australia. He wore [one of
IVI la wUvtril mbllidUll} these Invigorators,” and he says of this wonderful ELECTRO-MEDICAL treatment:
“ I suffered from Nervousness for a long time. I was on the point of a constitutional break-up more
than once. The merits of your ‘ Invigorator’ used by me are beyond question. Your treatment has
restored me to perfect health.” . (Signed) “J. MEGSON.”
(Mr. Megson can be interviewed upon this wonderful cure. What has been done for him can be done for you. We have hundreds such Testimonies from professional people whom we
have Restored to Health and Happiness.)
Free Advices and Surgical Examinations.
ALL Letters addressed to the SPECIALISTS of the INSTITUTE are replied to punctually.
WHENEVER THE MAIL GOES, correspondence is addressed. No Letter is neglected,
and replies to questions are POSTED BY RETURN MAIL to any intercolonial or inter-
national centre. ALL MEDICINES forwarded from the INSTITUTE to patients resid-
ing beyond N.S. Wales ARE PACKED SECURELY, so that no risks are incurred from breakage.
The system is so perfect that no complaints are ever heard of non-transmission. Advice is given
Free, and special consultations are arranged if considered necessary.
In all cases the opinions of the SPECIALISTS ARE GIVEN FREE OF CHARGE. If
anyone is in a critical condition from illness and would like a professional opinion, qualified by
experience and a life-service in the spheres of disease, that opinion will be given readily and freely.
Nerve and BLOOD DISEASES are the SPECIALITIES of the INSTITUTE.
BIIMIHliltiflJliWlB!!
V , ■. •; IrKave great pleasunOSbeing ibis to.
S cerr.ry that I entertain avery-hfift cpmion cr
1 D? Wallace, borfs personally'anlin respssK a
. ■ ■ *
Dominic J. Corrigan,
■ PhysiciaH\o the Queen.
Credentials and Qualifications.
THE PHYSICIAN-IN-CHIEF of the
INSTITUTE’S CONSULTING STAFF
of SPECIALISTS is a man of singular
professional attainment. His qualifications
are unequalled. As will be here seen he holds a
valuable testimony of merit from Sir Dominic
Corrigan, Bart, late Physician to the Queen, with
whom he was at one time associated. He also
holds NINE DIPLOMAS and CERTIFICATES
of QUALIFICATION and REGISTRATION
by the MEDICAL BOARDS OF NEW SOUTH
WALES, VICTORIA, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
ENGLAND and AMERICA, which are daily
open for public inspection. Late honorary
physician to. the Homoeopathic Hospital, Mel-
bourne, and British Imperial Army Medical Staff.
A Useful Volume.
+
FT* HE SPECIALISTS publish every year a revised edition of their medical work,
I “CLINICAL EXPERIENCES.” These valuable works are a feature of an
.B. Institute upon which £lOO,OOO has been expended since its introduction to the
Australian Medical World. Each year sees some departure in the publication
of useful medical volumes, for which the public demand is continuous and imperative.
This Medical Book, “CLINICAL EXPERIENCES,” is one of the finest works
published in Australia or recognised in Medical History. It is elegantly bound, artistic-
ally printed, beautifully illustrated, graphically written, and affords the keenest inte-
terest to the student of physiology. Anyone who cares to comprehend the
complex machinery of the human system should purchase one of these magnificent
works and read the 30 pages upon Anatomy, with 20 illustrations showing the osseous,
muscular, and nervous mechanism of the body. Also,
articles upon the Care of the Sick, Burns and Scalds,
Restoring Apparently Drowned, Dropsy, Asthma, to-
gether with a Vocabulary of 1000 medical terms, aid a
list of 50 valuable prescriptions, which are invaluable
in every home.
It comprises 550 PAGES of exhaustive analysis
upon general diseases, with 150 MEDICAL ILLUS-
TRATIONS, 35 CHAPTERS OF INSTRUCTIVE
MATTER, and graphically - written articles upon
SNAKE BITE, INSOMNIA, INVALIDS and
TREATMENT, ALCOHOLISM and EFFECTS,
PLAGUE, FEVERS, ELECTRICITY, FRAC-
TURES, GUNSHOT WOUNDS, SUNSTROKE,
CANCER, CONSUMPTION, etc., make it a valu-
able friend to all households in the country, where
medical men are few.
The price of this Magnificent Work is, post-free
to any Australasian address, ONE SHILLING
ONLY, IN STAMPS.
ces
Gene
Oise
EMAN*
o Medical*
EDITION, // i
FREEMAN * WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAI——
and SURGICAL INSTITUTE
ELIZABETH and BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director Electro-Medical Department.
Dr. RICHARD WALLACE, M.D., L.R.C.P., L.RC.S, E., L.M., Physician-in-Chief.
Medicines packed Free ■From Observation and sent to all parts oF Australia.
Letters treated with ProFessional Secrecy and promptly replied to.


ARE YOU IN DOUBT
As to what to give as a present? You can*
not possibly be disappointed by visiting us,
so come here whether you have a definite
idea of what you want or not. We offer
you the biggest variety and the most
reasonable prices it is possible to offer.
If you have not seen our new Catalogue,
ask us for one. If you live out of town
send us your name and address on a post-
card and you will get one by return mail.
No. F 4708.
Silver-plated
and Pearl
Bread Fork,
11s 6d.
No. F3462.—Fine Leather, and Silver-
Mounted Pocket Book, 10s 6d.
No. F3939.—Gent.’a Silver Hair
Brush, 21s.
No. S74A.— 6 Silver-plated Tea Spoons
and Tongs, 10s 6d.
No. 363. —A 1 Silver-plated Sugar Tongs,
3s 6d.
No. 253. —Solid Silver Match Box, 10s 6d.
Silver
Glove
Buttoner,
Is 6d.
412 GEORGE S yr», f *
No. 20.—Gent.'s Opal
Ring, 18ct. gold,
£4 10s.
No. EBo3l.—Tasteful Oct. Gold Bangle, £ll7s. Cd.
No. B4B9o.—Dia-
mond Ruby and
18ct. Gold Ring,
£3 10s.
No. M.—lsct. Gold and Opal Fly Brooch, £l lss.
No. 120.—15 ct. Gold, Diamond and Ruby
Brooch, £2 7a 6d.
15cfc. Gold Heavy Band Bracelet, £4 4a. Smaller, £3
r^TniTTTnffiriwr —r
No. E6659.—9ct. Gold Engraved Bracelet, £ll7s 6d.
No. 193.—Links, 9ct.
Gold, 15s 6d. 15ct.
Gold, £llos. Silver,
4s 6d.
No. 197.—Links, 9cfc. Gold,
£1 ss. 15cfc. Gold, £2 ss.
Silver, 6s 6d.
No. 121A.—15ct. Gold Anchor Brooch,
£ 112 s 6d.
No. E 6251. —9ot. Cold Bird and Heart
Bi'Otch, 12s 6d.
No. E77o7.—9cfc. Gold,
Pearl and Turquoise
Lace Brooch, £1 Is.
Fine Diamond Marquise
King, £4O.
No. 241.
Diamond - set
Scarf Pin,
No. F6l2B.—Silver-plated Toast
Rack, 12s 6d.
mm
mcssmM
No. F3s62.—Silver Cabinet Photo.
Frame, 16s 6d.
m
No. E 6444. Engraved
A 1 Silver-plated Napkin
King, 6s 6d.
No. E 8499. —Purse and Card Case,
4 Silver Corners and Look, £1 Is.
. m
No. 359.—Silver-plated Breakfast
Cruet, 13s 6d.
No. E7o’, 2. —Silver
and Ivory Kattle,
13s 6d.
m
Fine Opal and 15ct.
Gold T’earfc, £5 5a
Smaller, 755.
Silver-plated
Spectacle
Case, 14s 6d.
Influential
Evidence.
SIR JOHN B. MONCKTON, the Town
Clerk of London, writes:—
“ Guildhall, London, Nov. 4th, 1901.
“ To Messrs. Kutnow and Co., Ltd.
“ Gentlemen.— l have much satisfaction in
stating that for the last two years I have regu-
larly used KUTNOW’S POWDER, with the
result that troublesome and frequent attacks of
lumbago and other Gouty Symptoms that
troubled me for years seem to have entirely
disappeared.— Yours truly,
“JOHN B. MONCKTON.”
*
D. McNeill, M.D., L.P.P S., writes—
“ Holm, Kirkwall, Nov. 2nd, 1901.
“ Dear Sirs,—l always use and prescribe
KUTNOW’S POWDER, and could not get on
without it. —Yours truly,
“D. McNeill, m.d.”
REV. J. DENNY writes:—
“ Thank you sincerely for the KUTNOW’S
POWDER which I requested you to send me a
short time ago for the use of my wife, who has
been in the habit of taking all sorts of so-called
“ fruit salts,” but which she has now discarded in
favor of your Powder, as she finds it far more
beneficial, without, at the same time, producing
the excoriating effects which she used to experi-
ence from them. I may add that her medical
attendant, a man of considerable practice in
Sydenham, highly approves of her use of your
Powder.
“ (Rev.) J. DENNY (Clerk in Holy Orders),
Belfield, Lawrie Park-road,
Sydenham, S.E.”
The Greatest Remedy in the World!
Kutnow’s Powder
Endorsed, used, and prescribed by the most distinguished
Physicians of Great Britain and the Colonies —Sir Andrew
Clark, M.D., Sir Spencer Wells, M.D., Sir Morell Mackenzie,
M.D., Professors Lawson Tait, M.D., B. L. Wyman, M.D.,
I. N. Love, M.D., W. B. Jones, M.H., F. 11. Griffin, M.Lb,
Julian Altliaus, M.X)., George Harley, MJD., Stanley Bendel,
M.D., and hundreds of others too numerous to mention.
Constantly Used by the Royal Family.
KUTNOW’S POWDER is doubly efficient in Rheumatism and Gout. It dissolves
uric acid and phosphatic sediments as well as other products difficult of elimination, while at the
Same time it exerts a moderately stimulant effect upon the renal cells, and thereby -facilitates the
swift removal of insoluble materials from the body. Without such actions insoluble sub-
stances will precipitate in the kidneys and bladder. The intense suffering produced by stone, together with
consecutive pyelitis and cystitis, are avoided by prompt elimination. Unquestionably, although the speedy
removal of uric acid and other products of faulty tissue change is of conspicuous benefit, yet to pre-
vent their formation is a service still more important. This service is performed
by KUTNOW’S POWDER when it corrects those digestive -failures which are re-
sponsible for the production of deleterious materials.— Vide Medical Record, Sept., 1901 .
Beware of Fraudulent Imitations.
KUTNOW’S POWDER may be obtained in c-apsuled bottles, of all Chemists and Medi-
cine Vendors. See that the Registered Trade Mark, “ HirsehWsprung ” (or Deer Leap), and
the.autograph facsimile signature, “S. KUTNOW AND Co. (Lix)'/* are on the label and carton.
ONLY THESE ENSURE GENUINENESS. INSIST ON “KUTNOW’S,” AND
FIRMLY REFUSE ANY SUBSTITUTES; THEY ARE WORTHLESS AND OFTEN
INJURIOUS.
PROPRIETORS :
S. KUTNOW & GO. (LIMITED),
41 FARRINGQON ROAD, LONDON, E.C.
Proprietors in U.S.A.: KUTNOW BROS., LTD., 853 fBROADWAY, NEW YORK CITY, U.S.A.
Unsolicited
Testimony.
Th.e Dean of Birmingham, Medical College
(B. L. Wyman, M.D., Ph.G), writes—
“ July 2nd, 1901.
“Gentlemen, —I have to say that I have tried
KUTNOW’S POWDER, and am pleased to say
the results have been very satisfactory. I have
been a sufferer for the past two years, and have
been greatly improved since I began the use of
your Powder. I mention this simply that you
may know how highly I think of the value of your
Powder in Uric-acid Diseases, Gout, Rheumatism,
and Kidney Troubles. I have also prescribed
KUTNOW’S POWDER with the greatest suc-
cess.—Yours truly,
“ B. L. WYMAN, M.D. (Dean).”
♦
REV. H. T. DUDLEY writes
“I consider KUTNOW’S POWDER invaluable,
and have again and again found it of the utmost
service, and would not be without it willingly. It
has quite recently cleared off some Rheumatism
which had troubled me. lam continually recom-
mending it to my friends. You may make what
use you like of this or my other letter.
“ (Rev.) H. T. DUDLEY (Vicar),
“Whitfield Vicarage, Glossop, Derby.”
LIEUTENANT-COLONEL R. J. VIN-
CENT writes:
“ West Runton Hotel, Cromer,
“ Aug. 14, 1900.
“The Powder came duly to hand, for which I
have to thank you. I have been suffering from
Rheumatic Gout, and I am bound to say that I
have already found benefit from the Powder you
sent me. lam so convinced of its efficacy that I
shall be careful always to keep it by me.—Again
thanking you, I am, Sir, yours faithfully,
“R. J. VINCENT (Lieut.-Col.).”
THE GREATEST REMEDY IN THE WORLD!


The Plague is becoming very common-
place now. An institution is proposed for the
manufacture of “Yersin’s Curative Plague
Syrup.” That is a long drop from “ prophy-
lactic.” Wouldn’t there be money in it as a
private spec., and without trespass on the copy-
right of Mother So-and-So ?
Long-forgotten bits of old Sydney only
come to light when some of the existing ancient
buildings are demolished to make way for modern
structures. The Tank Stream has been tapped a
dozen times between King-st. and the Quay, the
latest being in connection with excavations for the
Harbor Trust’s new building. Pacing the Quay,
adjoining the fire station, the new block will
stand, and some 12 or 14ft. down workmen came
across an old corduroy-road, still in fair preserva-
tion. Apparently, it led down to the creek, and
had been made passable to drays for the purpose
of drawing water. Included in the hauls were
sundry lengths of chain, iron bolts, nuts, and
tools. Did these come from an old marine-store
alleged to have once occupied the site, or from
the reported sunken brig rumored to form part of
the foundation of the quay at some unknown
point ?
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? if so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. lerhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
hn i OU : m d , 01 ? 1 ea y Perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured,
oendatpnce for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, iumours. Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
Ai'-Rpnm ’ 1 ® rltaiD > 1/Ud. per box. Prepared by
ALBERI 73, Farnngdon-street, London, England,
bmwa l ’ l ' l PfJ ’ BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
APPLIA NCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for LOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Stbket, SYDNEY.
CALVERT’S
20 per cent.
CARBOLIC
SOAP
Cures and prevents Insect
and Mosquito bites.
The strongest Carbolic Toilet Soap.
F. C, CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
LADIES.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address— L.D.1., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
LOVELY COLORS.
BRILLIANT
GLOSS.
REJECT
IMITATIONS.
,
y
.
1
■
SPINALIS
c;:'.,'OXIDISED mm
enamel!
READY FOR USE
ERFECT
ECT ONS'FOR USE
■ iiijj mi “"^iMllmlliinjlflj!
NEW
CROSS. LONDON. S.E
See that Aspinall’s name
and Medals are stamped
on every Tin.
MANUFACTURED BY
ASPINALL’S ENAMEL, Ltd., NEW CROSS,
LONDON, ENG *
MOIR’S
ANCHOVY PASTE.
In Tins about 2 ozs.
Manufacturers:
JOHN MOIH & SON, LIMITED,
LONDON, ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE.
Head Office— 9 & 10, Great Tower Street, London, E.C.
Dr. Clarkson’s Electric Belt
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
lOr. Clar ksoix’s E^c-Xnvigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
vigour.
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory Dys-
peptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, sreneral collapse of ail vital
parts, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. OLARKSON’SRE-INVIGORATOR
will bring happiness and health. The influence on the Nerves and Organs is truly wonderful
Brice ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
V
OALij OR WRITE—
O'WTL*
CUT
RATE
DKTJGr STORE,
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
wisi>om :
SAVE YOUR
MONEY.
SAVE YOUR
TIME.
m WHERE TO
PROSPERITY
CAN’T LAST FOR EVER WITHOUT THE
PUBLIC’S CONFIDENCE AND APPRECIATION,
EVIDENCE OF WHICH IS DAILY RE-
CEIVED IN THE FORM OF TESTI-
MONIALS AND GRATEFUL LETTERS
, BY
Herb RASSMUSSEN
THE WORLD-FAMED DANISH
HERBALIST & BOTANIST,
PROPRIETOR OF THE
ALFALIN
HERBAL
REGISTERED
%
have not met Herr Rassmussen, ana
trial, may find it beneficial to become
A FEW WORDS TO THE UNINITIATED.
PERSONAL AND PERTINENT.—Those w
who have not given his Alfaline Herbal Remedies
acquainted with the good work which he has done ii/the interest of suffering " hu-manity'for
the last twenty years. J
ALONG BACK IN THE BEGINNING OF THE EIGHTIES
Herr Rassmussen introduced his now world-famed Alfaline Herbal Remedies to the Australian public at 547 George
Street, Sydney. Australia was then flooded with American importations and proprietary remedies, manufactured
by doubtful persons with assumed names and fictitious addresses, who took the people’s monev without
responsibility, and very often without giving- them fair value for same. r r a
HERR RASSMUSSEN BROUGHT ABOUT A REVOLUTION
by straightforward and fair dealings with the public, offering to stake his reputation and future if his remedies
were not as efficacious as he claimed them to be, accepting all responsibility, and willing to abide bv the people’s
verdict. J r r
THE HAPPY RESULT IS KNOWN TO EVERYONE.
Over twenty, years have passed away, hundreds of remedies have come and gone—many of them were forced on
the public in numerous designing ways—thousands of pounds spent on advertising same with the assistance of the
world’s greatest experts in laying traps for the unwary; but the public would have none of them, and they haVe
disappeared as suddenly as a flasli of lightning.
“THE ALFALINE REMEDIES EXCELL ALL OTHERS,”
and are well known to be more popular to-day than they have ever been. They have not only obtained but
have retained the goodwill and confidence of the Australian public, and have become famous throughout the
civilized world. The first Sydney Office not’only yet exists, but offices have been opened up for their sale at
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Wellington, N.Z., and in West Australia at Perth, Fremantle, Ivalgoorlie and
Boulder City, with Agencies throughout the world.
LET THE PUBLIC JUDGE FROM THE FOLLOWING:—
The Alfaline Remedies have held their own for over twenty years in Australia, and Herr Rassmussen has
been awarded the Parisian Acadamies’ Gobi Medal and Diploma of Honour ; Gold Medal, Sydney and several Silver
Medals; honourably mentioned in almost every newspaper in Australia; received many thousands of unsolicited
testimonials-every one of the originals open for inspection at his Offices. The Alfaline Remedies have never been
known to fail to cure in a single instance.
ARE THEY NOT WORTH A TRIAL?
if they are, why not try them to-day ? why leave it till to-morrow and, perhaps, lose your chance and time! No
order so small that it is not welcome ; no order so large that it cannot be executed at once. If vou first wish
evidence of the efficacy of the Alfaline Remedies,
SEND FOR HIS FREE BOOK,
and read what the experienced have to say, and what the Australian newspapers have to sav—the double distilled
extracts from the Press speak for themselves.
A FEW OF THE ALFALINE REMEDIES:
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS never fail to cure Nervous Diseases, Weak Spine
Troubled Braiu, Fatigued Nerves, Despondency, Poor Memory, Debility, Want of Confidence!
restore Vital Strength, and preserve the system against being affected by age more than any
known remedy. Boxes, 6/- and 12/- ; course, 23/6 posted.
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS area permanent cure for all Chronic, Blood and Skin
Diseases, no matter how caused, or of how long standing—Blotches, Blood Disorders, Gravel,
Diseases of the Urinary Organs, etc., etc. Boxes, 6/- and 12/- ; courses, 23/6 posted
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS completely cure Wasting Diseases in Women
—Anaemia, Whites, Poverty of Blood, Sallow Complexion, Dull Eyes, and act as a perfect
Blood and Nerve Tonic. Boxes, 6/- and 12/-; courses, 23/6.
PILLS cure Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica, Lumbago, Ravages
from Rheumatic Fever, Chalky Formation in the Joints. Boxes, 3/-, 6/-, and 12/-; courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE LIVER AND KIDNEY PILLS remove all Stomach Troubles, Costive-
ness, Indigestion, Flatulence, Heartburn, Wind, Biliousness and Headache. Boxes, 1/-.
GENERAL ALFALINE REMEDIES.
Alfaline Pile Powders cure internal and external Piles, boxes 3/- and 6/- ; Varicocele
Powders, boxes 6/-; Blood Capsules or Globulus, 6/-; Fat Reducing Powders, which remove
Corpulency, 6/- ; Hair Restorer, 6/- ; Corn Cure, 1/-; Ointment, 1/-; Eucalyptus Oil and
Jujubes, boxes 1/-; Flesh-Producing Powders, 6/-; Complexion Beautifiers remove Pimples
and Freckles, 3/- and 6/-; Alfaline Plmbrocation removes all sorts of Muscular Pains, Stiff
Joints—good for Footballers, bottles 1/6 posted; Worm Tablets, 1/-; Headache Tablets,
Instant Cure, 1/-; Soluble Quinine Pessaries, 5/- ; Electric Belts, Suspenders, Bandages!
Enemas, Glass Syringes, etc. Circulars with all particulars sent Free.
REMEDIES BY POST A SPECIALITY.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has made special arrangements for attending
personally to his Clients living in the Country, and letters will receive
most careful personal attention. Advice or information sent free and
unobserved. Patrons may rely on skilful, honest and confidential treatment.
His Remedies will he forwarded to sufferers, packed in plain cover and
unobserved, together with Advice and Directions. Letters should he addressed
to Herr Rassmussen’s full name—HANS PETER RASSMUSSEN—and
Registered if containing Money, and may he sent to any of
Herr Rassmussen’s Addresses:
Head Office: 547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
ALSO AT
MELBOURNE—ISO Bourke Street
BRISBANE—3O9 Queen Street
ADELAIDE—IS Pulteney Street
N. 2.—91 Lambton Quay, Wellington
W.A.—PEETH—IBI Hay Street
KAL&OOELIE—Hannan Street
EOULDEE SlTE—Piesse Street
PBEMANTLE—II7 High Street
A FREE BOOK SENT ON APPLICATION,
with Advice, Testimonials, and List of Alfaline Remedies.


“ Nemo ” : Recently came across some
official records of transportations to Tasmania and
N.S.W. between 1845 and 1850. One list contains
the names of male convicts sent out in ’49. This
lot included a youth of 18—seven years for steal-
ing handkerchiefs ; and one of 16—10 years for
stealing lead from a church. Another list of 14
male convicts, sent out in ’49 per the Adelaide to
N.S.W., contains some peculiarly uncommon
names, the mention of which would curdle the
blood of many prominent N.S.W. citizens. Of
these, one aged 17 had got seven years for theft,
and another (Christian and surname same as those
of a well-respected Australian cit.) had received
10 years for housebreaking. Some of the names
in these papers are to be seen on tumbling tomb-
stones in an old Hobart cemetery. Indeed one
of them is graven on the slab of a large and im-
posing vault, showing that this particular ex-
convict had risen to wealth and importance.
When I saw this vault last January one end had
fallen in, and I could see the skull and other
bones of the remains. This, too, within a few
hundred yards of the heart of the city !
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s
CIRCULAR-POINTED PENS
Seven Prize Medals Awarded.
Neither scratch nor
spurt, the points
being rounded by a
new process.
Attention is also
drawn to their new
“CRADUATED
SERIES OF
PENS.”
Each pattern being made in jour degrees of flexibility and Points.
Ask your Storekeeper for an Assorted Sample Box of either series.
Works: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND
’s Bronchitis
THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA. *
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breath in fr Ho P-'
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Gure°lt° eSS ’ V* ln °*
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption todevelop Co 1
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning a dose is e-enomfi 1 • flip’ T
and a Complete Cure is certain. 6 ' generally sumcienc,
BEWARE OP COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
Core.
Hearne
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. —Dear Sir,—l am writing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of p'llegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to-be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my; bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks. —Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t4>e licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
6mall bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
ast cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
tine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Victoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured hy One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“ Llenwellyn,
“ Katunga, Vio.
“Mr. Hearne.—
“ Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to my mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER.*’
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that, previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus—as walking caused me such pain'and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.’
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga.
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows:—"As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling' stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure. —I remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Pive Years’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—Kindly send me ona
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. I am more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without it.
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Years’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“Dear Sir,—Your medicine has cured me of bronchitfe
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief"
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment!
until I became, as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely,'
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney."
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS’ CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville
Queensland, writes “After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then
which was in the beginning of 1883— 15 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it "
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states:— 1 “I
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma.” K
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist;, Geelong, Victoria.
branch depot- office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
The SMELTING & REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
3.Q01, 3Lai iaa.it eel. W/««KS s 23Al*TO, Xjt4.li.es Illawarra (56 MILES FROM SYDNEY)
SMELTERS
AND
REFINERS
04’
SILVER
LEAD
BULLION
wasum
■
MMI
MAKERS Of
S. Co, of Australia
AND
“ IXali A W ARRA”
BRANDS OF
SOFT LEAD.
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay.
W. L. HOYT, Manager.
Assay Offices, General Offices, Store and Sulphuric Chamber.
Highest Price paid for GOLD, SILVER-, LE 1 0 and COPPER ORES, C2TAMIDE SLAGS, and JEWELLERS’ SWEEP, &c.
For all information regarding Rates, apply to HEAD OFFICE, DAPTO.
“Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical Record.
‘“Benge: s Food’
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medical' Record.
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
For Infants , Invalids, and the Aged. Delicious, Nuiritiw, and Ugestible.
Bencrer’s Food is sold by Chemists, &c., Everywhere
Extracts from Private
Letters.
“ My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult
to j find. My wife sounds
the praise of ‘ Benger’s
Food’ everywhere.”
“If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.


Good Blood
Good blood is the secret of health—the secret of good blood
is Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
Good blood is the greatest enemy that disease can have. It
stimulates every organ to throw off any ailment that may attack
it.
Good blood is the only positive cure for such complaints as
indigestion, anaemia, nervousness, neuralgia, rheumatism and skin
eruptions—because these diseases cannot exist where the blood
is good.
Good blood means health, vigor, life and beauty—and the
one sure way to make your blood good is to take Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills, the great blood-builder and nerve-tonic.
HOW they cured A'iISS Rea.— “ About a year ago my blood became
impure and watery,” writes Miss Florence Rea, of Jasper’s Brush, Shoalhaven.
“Gradually I grew weak and languid. My appetite failed, my eyesight was
impaired, and I used to go off in fainting fits. At times I was so feeble that I
could not even walk. A physician said I had pernicious anajmia. Although
skilfully attended I continued to grow weaker and thinner. Hospital treatment
also proved useless. Then 1 tried Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills Two boxfuls purified,
strengthened and enriched my blood, and made me eat and sleep well. A few
more boxes quite cured me. Now I am brighter and stronger than ever I was.”
Dr. Williams pink pills for pale people.
Sold by all dealers, or sent post paid for 2s 9d a box, or six boxes for 15s 3d, by addressing
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney. B 2
-M.OTHER
CURATIVE
AN IDEAL TONIC
is one that restores tone and efficiency to the
stomach, liver and kidneys impaired through
worry, overwork, climatic changes, unhealthy at-
mosphere in factory or office, disease or any other
cause. It promotes the thorough digestion and assimi-
lation of food, which are the foundation of good health.
Such a tonic is Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup. Mr.
Alex. Cochrane, Eva St., Tooranga, Yictoria, in a letter
describing how he had for five years suffered from acute
indigestion and been completely cured by Mother Seigel’s
Curative Syrup, says. “Though it is eighteen months since I
took the last dose I feel better and stronger than ever I did in
my life before.” Such is the power of Mother Seigel’s Curative
Syrup.
MADE FROM ROOTS AND HERBS.
G§ORSS
R
Coronation Spoon
A Special Treasure to British
People in Far-off Lands.
of Spoons
4 % &6%
In Solid Silver or Gold. Price from 8/-, post free. Designed!
and manufactured by Pearce and Sons, Silversmiths, Hud-
dersfield, England, by whom it is being sent to all parts of
the World.
liver
historic Gift for 1902.
If you have an 1537 Souvenir of Queen
Victoria’s Coronation you know its
value, and will be anxious to secure
early the choicest Historic Souvenir
of KlNci EDWARD YII. £his
registered emblematic spoon is a
new departure in souvenirs: a rare combination of the
beautiful, valuable, historic, and useful. No marriage
presents will be complete without a set of these emblematic
spoons. A gift for every child of the Empire born in
this Coronation Year. 'No Souvenir could be more highly
appreciated. Send for illustrations of Sizes and Prites.
The Historic Gift of 1902,
Description— The Bust of the King, surmounted by His Crown
he reverse bearing tlie Rose, Thistle, and (Shamrock—Great Britain and
reland ; these support the Royal Monogram, E.R. VII., 1002, and are up-
held by Iris-Jike leaves, each representing one of our Great Possessions;
the leaves uniting form the Empire Stem. The Roots of this Empire
'1 ant run round the Royal Arms, the Emblem of our Constitution,
iglit into the Heart of the Peoples.
gpeeial Attention and Care given to
Golonial and Foreign Orders.
iwr~ Colonials and those Abroad will affect a real Saving of Money in
purchasing direct from Messrs. Pkahck & Sons. Send for their
Pictorial Price List of Solid Silver Novelties and High-Class
Presents.
P FAROE & SONS 9 Silversmiths, &c.,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
m
19
02
383491
A Little Letter from London.
London, Mat, 1902.
Dear Bulletin :
Oh, to be in London, now that April’s here !
But May is better. What could be lovelier than
London as I write to-day ? The trees are out in
an ecstasy of green—such green ! The sky is
blue and clear ; the day is full of golden sunlight.
A cool wind meets one in the face ; and the
whole city is in a blazing riot of flowers. Five
minutes’ walk, and 1 get into a Paradise of green
stretches of grass, ponds with a purple-blue light
on them, flickering trees, so green, so vividly,
passionately green that the material London
dissolves. A lovely spirit-city comes in its place,
a golden, ecstatic place where tulips flower in
millions, where wall-flowers burn with a deep
red-brown in a profusion we cannot even imagine
in Sydney, where daffodils shoot carelessly up from
the grass, and nod and dance in the breeze, where
great rose clouds go rolling over a sky that has
been like grey land month after month—so thick,
so grey, so motionless that I could scarce believe
it was a sky at all.
Ah, but to see that grey break up ! To see
clouds come rolling forth, to see color leap back
into the Heavens, to see a million windows
burning with the reflected scarlet and rose and
orange of a spring sky ! And to see the black
trees, that were like Death for many months,
come to life again !
Spring in London makes one feel that all great
and good things are possible. When you have
once watched that Resurrection—watched moment
by moment, day by day, month after month,
and seen Life come back from Death—you can
never believe again in the Impossible. There is
no such thing. Any thing—every thing—can
come to pass if those black, lifeless sticks can
break into leaf. And they can. They do ! Oh,
the trees that they are when they are trees!
We all come here declaring we will never love
any place but Australia. Alas, the old allegiance
drops away from us. Our hearts are faithful, but
our aesthetic souls escape. Australian artists
revel in London as surely no one else revelled.
The atmospheric effects drive them mad with joy.
They would rattier starve here than live well in
their own land.
If r ever an Australian artist —singer, writer,
painter—returns to Australia it is because he
failed, because he could not live over here.
Nothing but failure drives them home.
Loiigstaff has just got a commission to paint
the King. Of course you know who is at the
back of that. His kindness to Australians
is wonderful I believe Lord Beauchamp
intends to pi-esent the picture to Sydney
afterwards. Longstaff has a 'picture in the
Academy, on the line. Arthur Streeton has
a picture in the Salon, and one in the
New Gallery this year. Two of his pictures
were accepted by the Academy, but had the bad
luck to be crowde|L:out. One was a big picture of
Trafalgar Square! A very fine thing, perhaps
the best he has ever done. He sent a sketch
—a copy—of it to Paris, and that was what
got into the Salon. So the Salon hung the sketch
of the picture that the Academy allowed to be
crowded out.
London is all art and music just now. The
Musical Festival is just over. One night I heard
the greatest conductor in the world lead the
orchestra there. It was Nikitsche, come over
from the Continent expressly for this concert.
That was a night never to be forgotten. Imagine
a beautiful circular hall, full of warmth and light
and flowers, a great orchestra, a great conductor,
and all the great musicians and singers and com-
posers, and musical agents, and musical amateurs,
and royalty, and aristocracy, and music that
seemed to go as far as even music can go, away
beyond the bournes of space.
It was all Nikitsch. He fused the players into
his own fire. The violins were violins no longer ;
they turped to tongues of flame. Everyone held
his breath. The Tschaikonsky Symphony, No.
5, in E Minor, the .Tschaikonsky pianoforte
Concerto in B Flat Minor, Die Meistersinger, a
Bach Suite, and the Tannhauser overture—that
was the night’s feast.
For once London showed its feelings to the full.
Again and again, and still again, Nikitisch came
back, and still the thunders of applause burst over
him.
Sharing in the applause was one we all know
well. A pale, bent boy, with long, lank, black,
hair, hands nervously twining and untwining, dry
lips continually moistened by his tongue—Mark
Hambourg. He looks no older than when you
saw him last, but he seems more fragile, niore
bent. I was in the front row, and I could see the
terrible nervousness that nearly overcame him.
He is as blind as a bat, sitS screwed-up at the
piano, and plays witli a fire, an exuberance that is
almost too tempestuous. If only his touch were a
little less sec, what a magnificent player he would
be ! He played the pianoforte part of the Tschai-
konsky Concerto, and had several recalls. Among
the younger pianistes he stands first, but there is
still a long way between Mark ar,d Busoni, or
Mark and Paderewski. He plays always at great
tension. He keeps you gasping all the time.
Poetry and repose are lacking a little; let us hope
they will come later, for such fire as his is un-
common. In the crowded house are some we
know by sight and many we know by name.
This tall, dark woman, with a handsome, kindly
face of a dashing type, and an upper lip shaded
with a dark down, is Maud Valerie White, the
well-known song - writer. She is now Mrs.
Messager, and looks about thirty-five.
This funny old red-faced fellow, with white
whiskers and watery blue eyes—this is Wilhelm
Ganz, the “ Dear Bird of Winter ” man. He is
talking fussily to a red-haired, bright-eyed girl
in a long white opera jacket. He is asking
the girl—whose name, by the way, is Florence
Schmidt—when she is going to sing his “Sing
Sweet Bird ” again.
Here is another Australian, and also with warm-
colored hair. It is Amy Sherwin, chatting in the
interval with a group of rising musicians. She
looks very sweet and charming, and as fresh as a
daisy. She has just opened a teaching connection.
One doesn’t hear her sing very often. And this
tall, good-looking man with dark beard and a smile
that shows all his teeth, is her husband, Hugo
Gorlitz, the very lucky manager of Kubelik. He
and Kubelik are just back from America where
they made enormous sums of money.
This clean-shaven boy with dreamy eyes and
: square jaw is Reginald Somerville, the composer.
He looks about twenty-two, and is somewhat of
the Gibson-man type.
This enormous man, with a big, smooth,
artless, childlike face, this is Ysaye, the greatest
violinist of the day. He sits beside a man with a
fair heard and a face like the Saviour’s, and they
talk together as if they love each other, Ysaye and
Busoni. To hear them play the Kreutzer Sonata
together confirms the impression. Their tern-
-peraments blend, and yet sustain each other.
This old, little, white-haired man, with narrow
shoulders, white beard, and unmusiciarily look is,
perhaps, the greatest man in the hall. He is
Saint-Saens himself. He has come over from the
Continent for the Festival. He conducts, in the
presence of the Queen, on Saturday afternoon.
Ella Russell sings “Ocean, Thou Mighty Mon-
ster,” that day. She arouses little enthusiasm.
This b : g, white-haired man who knows every-
body, and has the bland face of an actor, is
Randegger. He walks about on a stick, accosting
and accosted by all. He still teaches singing.
Music, music, every day of the week.
* * * *
Looking back on the long dim winter I can
recall little beyond the throb of ’cellos, the
cries of violins, the rise and fall of great orchestras,
women’s voices soaring above the instruments,
and organ-playing in abbeys and cathedrals.
Mingled with these are Turner, and Titian and
Correggio, and Velasquez, and Paolo Veronese.
In the National Gallery everything is to be had
for the asking. How can we ever leave and go
back ?
Sometimes, there sweeps over us all a longing
for home; for the scent of the gum-trees,
so poignant, subtle, sad; for the dazzling
stretches of turquoise sky ; for the far, far dis-
tances, the wide, silent plains and melancholy
mountains, and for the easy, happy atmosphere of
Home, where we might bask again and be as little
children; and for the “old familiar faces,” dearer
even through the distance.
It is an exquisite emotion to think that far-away
Australia is your home. That some day you wiil
go back, but that now you are here in London, and
life is filled to the brim with things denied co Aus-
tralia —music, art, intellectual companionship, and
a river like the Thames, full of magic and mystery,
to make up for the Bush we left behind.
Perhaps the greatest fascination of all lies in
the color that we find here. It intoxicates us.
It is so new, so strange. To us, it is unearthly.
We are perpetually thrilled with it. Why did
no one ever tell us of it ? Till I came here, I
thought the Thames was just the Thames, sky was
just sky, and the sun was really the sun.
Now I know better. The Thames and the sky
and the sun are all magicians. London is a fairy
city.
Concerts, operas, theatres, balls !—what a whirl
of life has seized on this City of Mists since May
began ! Excitement deepens every day.
Australians have been using the happy-go-lucky
time for their concerts and recitals.
Miss Marguerite Henderson, from Melbourne,
gave a concert iti St. James’ Hall last week.
Most debutantes content themselves with the little
Steinway Hall, or the larger Bechstein. Miss
Henderson did things on a bro der scale, and took
one of the biggest concert-halls in London. In a
big cream hat, and a frock of string-colored voile,
the Melbourne soprano sang Wagner and Weber
to a fairly good matinee house. She was terri-
fically nervous, but showed herself the possessor
of a big, dramatic soprano organ that ought to be
in opera. Louis Arens assisted, singing Russian
songs with , all his old confidence—and more. I
believe it was his first appearance in London since
he came back from Australia. He will be going
back with Melba shortly.
Ernest Toy’s concert was at night, in the
Bechstein Hall. What a gathering of Queens-
landers ! Lord and Lady Lamington, Mr. and
Miss Ferguson, Miss Florence Schmidt, and
heaps of others. Ernest Toy doesn’t seem to be
a genius by any me ins. He plays well enough,
but without temperament. A Melbourne bari-
tone made a great success that night. This was
M. Andre Kaya, as he now calls himself, formerly
Louis Luseombe. He sang French with an ex-
quisite accent, an accent that delighted even
French people. It is wonderful, Kaya’s French.
He can’t speak it, but when he sings, it seems the
natural expression of himself. His English is
much less distinguished ; it seems almost a foreign
language to him.
I heard him again at Rna Bird’s concert. There
again he'scored a big success, and again in French.
He sings with great taste, has sentiment, and
fire, and abandon, and ought to make a P.it
here, by and bye. These little concerts, of
course, mean nothing, as far as London is
concerned. They only appeal to the friends and
acquaintances of those who give them ; they
create newspaper notices to send out to Australia ;
but they don’t reach the Public. And they go on
for ever. Oh, the sopranos, and contraltos, and
pianistes, and baritones and violinists who are for
ever making debuts in London ! From Ger-
many, from Canada, from India, from Africa,
from the provinces, from Australia they come.
Bat where do they go? Hundreds of them are
never heard of again. London could not possibly
provide them with engagements. London is
already much over-stocked with singers. Aus-
tralian girls should beware before they venture
here. I have been told sickening stones by
singers who couldn’t get on. Agent after agent
hears them sing, compliments them on their voices,
and then says, “But we can’t give you anything
to do. We have nothing to give. ”
London agents are puzzled at the Australian
invasion. To them it seems absurd. They can’t
understand why Australians are not satisfied to
stay at home and make a name there.
“ Wasn’t Australia big enough for you ?” asked
one agent, sarcastically.
“Geographically it was,” was the neat reply.
• * * »
Last night I heard Melba in “Rigoletto.” It
was her first appearance this season. Covent
Garden was one great blaze of jewels. The Queen
and Princess Victoria were in the Royal box, and
the whole aristocracy of England seemed to have
poured itself into the building. Box after box of
glittering women with coronets and tiaras and
white shoulders. It was really a magnificent
night. Melba was in superb form. The Daily
Telegraph said of her next d ly : “It is no new
thing to find Madame Melba returning to us full
of vocal vigor, and reminding us of no one but her
best self. The audience sat enthralled by the
beauty of a voice which ranks nowadays without a
rival.” Her singing of “Caro Nome” was the
purest joy. Those bird-like notes are clearer and
more delicious than ever.
The old Queen never patronised Melba. On dit
that this was always a thorn in the side of the
great singer. Last night was the first time she
had sung to the Queen of England.
Queen Alexandra has, evidently, no. intention of
following in Queen Victoria’s footsteps. She went
last week to see Olga Nethersole in “Sapho,”
though the press has resolved itself into one pro-
longed howl at the unspeakableness of that pro-
duction.
Olga Nethersole is a very different Olga from
the one we used to know in Australia. She is
very, very slim, almost thin, and her face shows
that she has had a battle with life. For some
reason or other this great actress seems to be per-
petually on the defensive. The press here is dead
against her.
She and another “ defensive ” woman—Gertrude
Atherton, the novelist—have joined hands lately.
Gertrude Atherton considers that she was driven
out of America by the critics. Gertrude and
Olga are now writing a play together, a dramatic
version of that terrible book of Gertrude Ather-
ton’s, “A Daughter of the Vine.” Everyone
hopes the play will never see the light.
As for Olga Nethersole’s acting in “Sapho”—
it is a triumph of emotional art, of restraint, of
technique, of simplicity and naturalness, of every-
thing that goes to make acting great. She has
omitted the carrying-up-stairs incident that r?' '
such comment in America.
I saw a little play written by a Sydney,
the other day, “Her Good Name,” by Beruaru
Espinasse. It was put on at the Imperial, before
Mrs. Langtry’s “Degenerates.” It was so queef
to go into that lovely theatre, all Renaissance and
marble, and see Walner Gregory playing a pari
he played in Sydney years ago. Walner Gregory
is assistant stage-manager to Mrs. Langtry.
“ Her Good Name ” caused a good deal of discus-
sion here. The critics all abused it. They found
fault with the language, declaring it “ old-
fashioned.” So there is hope for Bernard
Espinasse. I believe he has had some other plays
accepted, and promises to do well here.
L.M.


WALKING ADVERTISEMENTS
FOR—
BILE BEAMS
FOR BILIOUSNESS.
Are Numerous.
They are Universally
Recommended.
IT is upon this fact that the success of Bile
Beans for Biliousness is based. They
have effected thousands of cures in Australia
alone, and the parties thus cured are practically
Walking Advertisements,
as they never lose an opportunity to recommend
Bile Beans to fellow-sufferers, and thus the good
news is passed along that at last a safe and sure
remedy has been found to combat the many ills
which afflict mankind. Bile Beans for Bilious-
ness arc Nature’s own remedy, being a
purely vegetable preparation, containing not a trace
of harmful ingredients in their composition, and in
consequence differ from so many so-called remedies
in that, when their use is discontinued, they do not
leave behind those debilitating after-effects. It is
sometimes asked: “ How is it possible for one
medicine to cure so many ills as Bile Beans are
claimed to cure ? ” The answer to this is found in the
fact that from the defective working of the liver and
dig s.ive organs a host of other ailments arise, and
Bile Beans permanently cure them by curing the
cause. Con -equently, Bile Beans will be found
invaluable in cases of Biliousness, Indiges-
tion, Constipation, Piles, Headache,
Debility, Female Weaknesses, Bad
&
9
rt
BILE BEANS
ARE THE
World’s Speeifie
FOR ALL
LIVER AILMENTS
Please do not look at
the other side .
Blood, Bad Breath, Pimples and all Skin Eruptions, and, in -Fact, -for all
ailments that owe their origin to a disordered liver. Bile Beans are obtain-
able -from all medicine vendors, price 13id. per box, or direct *from the
Australian Depot, 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
m.
/Z
S' \ * i,.'
&
9
m
>
4\
A
&
X-
* -
and so does
PEARS
Revelation.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
God knows that it is hard to live,
And harder still to die ;
A listless, reckless fugitive
Amongst the stars am I.
The sun shines as of old he shone,
The sea rhymes wave with wave,
The white moon shines the place upon
Where I shall h ive my grave.
There is no lore I do not know
In all the stars unseen—
But, while the star-worlds come and go,
I am—what I have been.
From year to year with care I worked,
And thought the Part the Whole,
Yet God behind my forehead lurked.
And Space was in my Soul.
V. J. DALEY.
Raymond’s Cat.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was night-time, and Raymond sat in his tent,
which was lighted by a candle stuck on top of an
empty jam-tin. Raymond was a miner, and now
worked an out-of-the-way mine. He was tall,
slight, and good-looking.
More than one girl in a town —which, by the
way, he had suddenly quitted—had designs of
marriage on him. He had loved them all, more
or less. But there were two who occupied his
mind more than the others. One of them Ray-
mond loved ; the other he feared. He would have
willingly married one, but the other was always
in the way, and he hated this tall, red-haired,
freckle-faced girl, with the green eyes. But the
red-haired girl had brothers, who were fierce, im-
pulsive fellows ; and there was the father, too.
And his greatest dread was that Heffernan (his
rival in his love for the girl who had no freckles
and whose eyes were not green) might divulge cer-
tain information which was current, concerning
himself and the red-haired girl.
He sat on a box at an old, ricketty, bush-made
table, and was brooding over two letters, written
in the same lady’s hand. One he had received
that day ; the other bore a previous date. “A
decided difference—there is not a single love-
sentence in this, and it doesn’t finish like the
other. It is just, ‘I remain yours,’ while the
other is, ‘ I remain, until death, your loving little
girl and future comforter.’ Wonder has she heard
anything about the other one ? ” Raymond lit his
pipe by the caudle, and pondered.
A big yellow cat sat and watched him from the
foot of his bunk. He encountered the cat’s gaze.
She sat there purring, and watched him closely
with her big green eyes. Cats will watch a man
for hours sometimes. She seemed to bo reading
his soul through and through. Suddenly there
came ringing through the timber and resounding
up the gully, a clear, sharp sound, like the crack
of a bullock-whip.
“What’s that?” exclaimed Raymond, jerking
up and shaking the old ricketty table. He went
outside and listened.
Along the stony old track a bullock-waggon
was rumbling towards the camp. Raymond stood
there, and waited; some people were talking
in the waggon.
“There’s more than one,” said Raymond, and
then he started as if a bull-dog ant had bitten
him. He recognised the voices in the waggon,
and a cold shiver ran down his spine. One was a
female’s voice.
The waggon and bullocks stopped five yards
from where Raymond stood, and an elderly man
of lfist. alighted, and assisted out a very stout old
woman, who came down on the sand with a thud.
Another woman was landed with the assistance of
the driver —a much slighter and younger one.
Then another man scrambled over the wheels—a
thin, crane-like individual, who was dressed all in
black and wore a white collar round his throat.
Raymond knew the whole party now. He
trembled and stood there as if rooted to the
ground.
The old man walked straight up to Raymond
and said, “So yer thought yer wad sneak away
and leave my gal bide at home in shame, did yer ?
You’re a precious scoundrel, you are ! ”
Raymond pulled a dry stick off a branch close
by and chewed its bark, but said never a word.
Then the stout old woman waddled up to him
and called him a wretch in a voice Raymond
fancied sounded like the screech of a cockatoo.
Then the thin, crane-like gentleman approached
and took up the thread. He spoke with a pul-
pitty twang, and Raymond thought his voice was
like an old ewe’s in the scrub calling her lamb at
midnight.
“Young man,” he said, “you have committed
a grievous sin in the eyes of man and in the eyes
of the Lord.”
“Look’ere, parson Jones, yer can preach and
talk as much as yer mind next Sunday
at church, but you must go on with what I brought
you here for to-night.” It was the big, burly man
who spoke. Then turning to Raymond he said
suddenly: “This is my daughter, as yer know,
and this is parson Jones. You must marry my
gal to-night.”
Raymond, who seemed to be in a mesmeric
state, threw away the stick from which he had
eaten all the bark, and gasped, “ Marry her to-
night!” Then he lapsed once more into silence.
But he was thinking —thinking hard. What
should he do ? Here was an enraged father who
could strangle him with ease, and would do so too
if he refused to do his bidding. And here was a
mother who had a voice like a rasp and claws
which he feared she would use if put to it. And
here was a girl with red hair and freckles, and
by her side stood a parson with book in hand,
ready to read from it the ceremony which would
make the girl his wife.
Well, yes he had—but then there were others.
It was rather hard luck that he should be picked
out of several to marry her. A vision came
before him—the sweet vision of the girl he really
'•oved. The thought of being forced to deceive
her made him dizzy in the head. Then a bright
idea struck him. He would run away from this
burly, six-foot old man and this stout old woman,
who screeched like a cockatoo, and this crane-like
parson with the book in his hand, and this red-
haired girl with the green eyes. He would run
into the scrub and get away in the darkness. He
smiled sarcastically as he thought of this plan.
How the old man would rage when he found him-
self baffled in this manner !
Raymond glanced over his shoulder. There was
a kerosene tin full of water right behind ; he must
avoid that. He made an effort to bound, but,
alas ! be seemed as if paralysed—he could not run
to save his life. Had this red-haired girl mes-
merised him ? He looked at her, and she was
staring at him with eyes like a cat’s. He seemed
to be entirely under the red-haired girl’s control.
He felt sleepy and half dazed.
“Yes, you must marry her to-night,” repeated
the old man. Raymond looked at him, and
imagined he looked ten feet high and of more cir-
cumference than a beer-cask. “Go inside !” com-
manded the old man.
Raymond obeyed. He caught a glimpse of the
red-haired girl’s face. There was a triumphant
smile playing about her lips. “ Heavens ! ” mut-
tered Raymond, “what a life I will have with
this girl ! ” All the party came into his tent, bul-
lock-driver included. i
The girl stood by his side. Raymond shivered
and felt cold. Something was thrust into his
hand ;he examined it. It was a ring—a plain
gold ring. The crane-like gentleman opened a
gilt-rimmed book and started to read, but Ray-
mond could not get the gist of what he read.
Everything seemed muddled to him now. There
were some papers spread out on the ricketty old
table and a pen was put into Raymond’s hand.
He signed his name. Then the red-haired girl
took the pen and signed hers. She handed the
pen to the bullocky, who in turn signed his name.
Then the old fat woman signed some other paper
and the parson started to read again.
Raymond felt something cold touch his hand.
He looked down. It was the red-haired girl
trying to make him understand something. For
a moment he was puzzled to comprehend her
meaning. Then he took her hand and put the
gold ring on her finger.
The parson did some more reading. Then all the
party left the tent—no, not all the party. One
was left behind. It was the red-haired girl. She
sat on Raymond’s bunk and looked at him with
her large, green eyes, but she seemed to look
kindly enough now. Raymond turned from her
and looked out into the darkness. He heard the
waggon roll away and the bullocky tell “Spot”
to “ Gee orf.” He listened to the rumbling of the
wheels till the sound was lost in the gully beyond
the range. He looked once more at the red-
haired girl—bis wife—who was still watching him
from where she sat on his bunk.
Neither of them seemed to have any desire to
speak to the other. Raymond sat himself on a
box, and tried in a dreamy sort of way to think.
In five minutes he was fast asleep.
* » * •
“ Hullo there ! Goin’ to work to-day ? ”
Raymond woke with a start. For a moment he
was bewildered at finding himself sitting on a box
in front of a dead fire. It was morning and the
,sun was shining. He rubbed, his eyes and looked
around him. There stood his neighbor, Smith,
with billycan and spider in hand ready to go on
shift. What on earth brought him outside?
What was this paper in his hand ? Ah ! the love-
letter, all crushed and wrinkled. Then, like a
flash, the events of the night dawned upon him
That red-haired girl with the cat’s eyes was his'
wife now. He remembered leaving her sitting on
his bunk and coming out to the fire. He thought
of her being there all night alone, and he felt
ashamed of Ijimself. It was cowardly of him.
The girl, at any rate, never did him any harm
beyond marrying him. He would go to her and
apologise. He rose from the box and approached
the tent, and looked in the direction of his bunk,
thinking to find his wife still there.
But the bed was vacant, or, rather, there was
only the big yellow cat, which, when it saw
Raymond, jumped down, and meowed in a
friendly spirit. There was only the cat’s im-
pression on the blankets. Raymond could not
understand it all. “Heavens!” he exclaimed,
“she has gone.”
“ Who ? ” asked Smith.
“My wife,” said Raymond, “ the one I married
last night; the red-haired one.”
Smith looked at him curiously.
Raymond stood and reflected; then he walked
five or six paces away and began looking about on
the ground.
‘ ‘ What yer lookin’ for ? ” asked Smith.
“Wheel-tracks,” replied Raymond, promptly.
“ Whose tracks ?”
“ Bullock-waggon wheel-tracks.”
“Garn, yer got the horrors,” said Smith.
But Raymond did not hear him. He looked
and looked, and then got down on his knees so
that he might be enabled to look closer.
The cat came out with tail erect and rubbed
against bis legs. He remembered now; he had
been looking at the cat’s, eyes last night.
“ Wonder is it possible,” he said, reflectively.
“ What?” asked Smith.
“ That a cat can mesmerise a man.”
“ Garn, yer been drinking. Comeon ter work,”
and Smith went off laughing and saying that
Raymond had a large one. But Raymond said it
was a warning by which he would profit.
Two months later, when two brothers—fierce-
looking brothers, who carried large sticks and ■ a
document to be signed—came in search of Ray-
mond he was missing. But they got the cat.
Now that cat sits on the hob of a certain family,
or rolls on the floor with a chubby-looking
youngster. Sometimes, after washing her face
with her paw, that cat will look confidentially from
her seat on the hob at the youngster’s mother, a
tall, red-haired woman, who smiles on her moodily.
But the red-haired woman, who is married to a
man she likes much less than Raymond, has no
idea that the cat was the cause of many things
that happened to her.
OWL-LIGHT.
Re circulating libraries as media of
disease-infection, experiment has shown that the
bacillus of diphtheria will live in books 28 days
and that of tuberculosis 103 days. And books are
in constant use by convalescents.
A fine young returned cohentingenter,
minus a leg, made an application in Melb. for a
billet as gatekeeper and -watchman. He was
refused, but was offered' the looking-after and
cleaning of a urinal. He refused. The honor and
glory of the patriot !
Gr. H. Jenkins is the author of an official
paper giving a history of Parliament House,
Melbourne, the arena of the Australian Parlia-
ment. Childers, as Works Minister, proposed in
1853, in Vic. Leg. Council, that the site should be
between St. Peter’s Church and. Spring-st.—
carried. Greeves moved that Parliament House
should face the top of Bourke-st. O’Shanassy
moved an audacious amendment, that Bourke-st.
be prolonged eastward, and that Parliament
House should be on the north side of Bourke-st.
thus extended —this, obviously in the interest of
St. Patrick’s Cathedral. Negatived by 19 to 11
and Greeves’ motion carried. The architects
selected were J. G. Knight and P. Kerr, the
latter of whom had been for many years with Sir
C. Barry at Parliament House, Westminster.
Their design was much modified, but Kerr is to be
credited with the outcome achieved.


A Stringof Complaints
Languor, Depression, General Undoing, Loss of Appetite, Weakness,—
A String of Complaints Due to Hot Weather.
m
t
Mr. G. J. Plenty, of Bowden, South
Australia, sends us his photograph
and says:
“I have a regular string of com-
plaints every summer. The excessive
heat prostrates me. I feel languid
and depressed and have a general un-
doing of my health. A great many
of my friends complain in the same
way. Lately I have found that Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla overcomes all these bad
effects and enables me to go through
the hot season without any trouble.
It revivifies my system, purifies my
blood, and gives me an unusual de-
gree of strength. lam sure no one
will be disappointed with this medi-
sine, for it is not only a preventive
but also a powerful cure of dis-
ease.”
“The World’s Greatest Family SVledicine.”
Keep your blood in good condition, keep your digestion strong, and keep
your nervous system, vigorous. Then you "will not suffer from the weakening
effects of hot weather. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla was made for just these purposes.
It cools the blood, tones up the digestive apparatus, puts force into the
nervous system. And it fortifies you against hot weather, cold weather, or
changeable weather. It gives strength to ward off disease.
Don’t be deceived by trying some other Sarsaparilla. Don’t experiment
with imitations. Hold fast to the tried and tested Sarsaparilla—Ayer’s.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
A Tonic for All Seasons of the Year
Ayer’s Pills are a purely vegetable laxative for the whole family.
YEARS’ SUCCESS
AS
the UNIVERSAL REMEDY foe
Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza, Whooping-
Cough, Hoarseness, & c.
HAS MADE
AN ABSOLUTE NECESSITY TO EVERYBODY.
Important Notice:
SUBSTITUTION. — There cure so many imitations
Vof this successful , and therefore popular, remedy that
it is of the utmost importance you should use the
word “ OW BRIDGE ’ ’ when buying Lung Tonic,
k and TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE .
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, M.P.S., Chemist, Hull.
Sold everywhere in bottles, at Is. lid.
2a. 9d., 48. 6d., & Us., by all
Colonial Medicine Vendors.
COPYRIGHT.
27
TEARS’ SUCCESS
AS
the UNIVERSAL REMEDY fob
Coughs, Colds.
Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza, Whooping
Cough, Hoarseness, &c.
HAS MADE
(Mmdcje.
fnran Tnvi \ q
AN ABSOLUTE NECESSITY TO EVERYBODY.
Important Notice:
SUBSTITUTION . — There cure so many imitations
of this successful , awe? therefore popular, remedy that
it is of the utmost importance you should use the
ward “ OW BRIDGE ’ ’ when buying Lung Tonic,
and TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE .
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDOE, M.P.S., Chemist, Hull.
Sold everywhere in bottles, at Is. lid.
2s. 9 d., 4s. 6<t., & 11s*, by all
Colonial Medicine Vendors.
COPYRIGHT.
I
1!
/ Consults by Letter,
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East.
THE BROWN*SBQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
FOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cos'iveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no Action. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX.”
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
. Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of and
arousing with the Rosebud os Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham's Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medicine in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold lively where, in Boxes, Is 1.;,d, and —s 9d each-
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
wm±
DIMNEFORDS'
MAGNESIA]
za
mMm
m
i
B
w&M
5 isS
■
vou WEAK ?
, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
in your efforts to regain Health?
The Langston Regenerator
WILL. CURE
Its effects are almost instantaneous and the good results go
on increasing from day to day.
Health, Vigor, Strength
for all who
desire it.
OLD SURGEON LANGSTON,
Member Royal College of Surgeons, England, permanently located in
Melbourne since 1886, originator of the Regenerator treatment, has so
perfected his method that it has revolutionised the art of Healing,
and it can almost be said there are no hopeless or incurable
cases.
Ho you feel nervous, fretful, timid and lack the power of will and
action ? Are you subject to loss of memory, broken sleep, feel listless,
Are
You a Sufferer
from bad health in
any of its many forms?
moping, and subject to fits of melancholy? Are your kidneys, stomach, urinary organs, liver or blood in a.
disordered condition ? Do you feel weak, nervous and generally debilitated? If so, do not fail to have the
Doctor diagnose your case. Send at once for full information and question blanks.
Seels: tlxc Tx-Toctla., it costs ZKrotlxiaaLfs;!
All communications art considered sacredly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng., cor. RusseSS & Collins Sts., Melbourne
'Jfft **. /
10s'* *
SS
([A/
| '/i u/
nr* i
•■ 'iSk&dSMfflahaaii l- tiU * ,(Jg
f / Sr.
am
~-~~^k4ni
Crox Ine Blacking
is the best dressing made for ail bright finished leathers.
It is easily applied with a cloth, and produces a polish that is unequaled for brilliance
and permanence. Men, women, and children who use “Crozine” once want “ Crozine ”
always, as it is the most satisfactory waterproof dressing made for all varieties of shoes.
Sold almost everywhere. Made and guaranteed only by
C. L. HAUTHAWAY & SONS, Boston, Mass., U. S. A.'
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS'S
GRATEFUI.—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST SUPP ER.
THE ONLY WAY
TO BE CURED of Weakening and Habilitating Diseases
is to obtain the PROPER REMEDIES. We hare the
REMEDY that will CURE YOU. So CONFIDENT are
we of this, that we will send a trial course FREE OF
CHARGE and abide by the result. Send your symptoms
and prove our statement. Address— Botanic Institute
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-st., Sydney.


FOR.
WATERPROOF COATS
RUBOER BOOTS
«»■> GOLOSHES
PERDRIAU and COMPANY,
(between Bond & 270 GCOrgO Street, Sydney
60
FOR THE la ADZES.
w. c. IEIIIIDIRIZDiGrIE &c CO.
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
■
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY,
For all Services kept in Stock.
Send, for Catalogue*
A
ATT’$
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives & Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
MARK.
i
J. & J. MAXFIBLD, Paopus.,
At the Showrooms—
Empire Chambers, 93 York-St.
SYDNEY.
Also At
“THE BI.OCE,*’
Collins-st., MELBOURNE.
S. FREEMAN * SONS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers
SPECIALTIES*
z
<f> <
X Lil
h UJ
CD Ll
BAKING
PRIZE
POWDER.
PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
heaboffice: WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
BY USING
0
pcT
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REPRESSED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, See. ■
BOTTLES, 6d„ 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers — M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM,'ENGLAND
Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD., SYDNEY.
Portable Drills, Radial Drills, Drill Presses, Lathes, Planing
Machines, Slotting Machines, Punch and Shears, Steam
Hammers, Pipe Screwing Machines, Metal Saws, etc., etc.
WOOD WORKING MACHINERY.
Ingersoll-Sergeant Rock Drills and Air Compressors, Knowles Pnmps, Gates
Rockbreakers, Roger Rolls, Vertical and Horizontal Engines and Boilers of
all kinds, Engineers’ Fittings and Mine and Mill Supplies.
WRITE FOR PRICES AND PARTICULARS.
60 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
533 Collins Street,
,-u
Melbourne.
Fremont Street,
San Francisco.
tax feftn
Bushman
Harry IWlorants
His ’Ventures
and Verses.
and Buccaneer
By FRANK RBNAR.
Price 1/1
Post
Free.
EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO.,
SYDNEY.^
h. p. mm i co.
Machinery Merchants,
Melbourne & Sydney.
HAVE IN STOCK-
Blafee's Steam Pumps.
Fay’s Woodworking Machinery.
Mundy’s Hoisting Engines-
Empire Co.’s Laundry Machinery-
American “All Steel” Pulleys-
Harris ‘‘Champion” Lubricating Oils.
Mason Reducing Valves-
Ludlow Sluice Valves-
Kor ting’s Injectors and Ejectors-
Tanite Emery Wheels.
Pe Plica Lubricant Jo., South Shields, Eng.
; _JPatentMkaGreaBe i save3_9o%j ; n < coBt < o{ > lubrication i an^^ee£a
bearingyjerfeotljF^ooL^PatentjyiicaJPackinginasttwiceas^^
“ot^score^the^ods^^ut^ufc^noica^STirf^e^m^them^^imilaLr^ii^appearaiice^o^^electro^plate.
Sole A gent for Australasia: R. A. HERVEY. Dep6t, 171 Clarence-st., Sydney, N. S. W
GET A GRIP OF THSS FACT.
THE ATLAS PIPE WBEHCH
away ahead of all others.
A REALLY SPLENDID TOOL. WON’T LOCK ON THE PIPE.
10In., 58. 9d.; 18ln., 10s.; 241 n., 155.; 361 n., 325. 6d. Easily Adjusted.
JE3LOTCX®;eSS or
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd
71 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
SOLE AGENTS.
Henry Skinner,
Olarendon-st., South Melbourne
Telephone No. 10hS. •^CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OP TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
JjJOTICE TO MEIKiBOtJRNEt VISITORS
WIMPOM-S GEOROE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hots!
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
