

McE WAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
BEAVER STOUT.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
B. G. WATKINS dC CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOR —
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS' and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
xcbxc
Send for
Prices and
Particulars.
Descriptive
Catalogues
on
Application.
Most
Up-to-Dato
Machines.
I
4
Sawing & Woodworking Machinery,
Vertical & Horizontal Band Mills,
ra-raudL F*riac,” Paris, 1900.
HOLD THE WORLD'S RECORD
*
(HIGHEST POSSIBLE AWARD.)
SOLE AGENTSJ
GO., 85 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Rock Drills
Little Giant
Slogger
m
SOLE
N. CUTHRIDCE, Ltd.
71 Clarence-st., Sydney
Melbourne,
Wellington, K.Z.I
A Policy for the Commonwealth
Being a reprint of a large number of articles from
The Bulletin, in which this paper has attempted to
outline a solvent, honest and democratic policy
for Federated Australia.
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831. WHISKY.
HELIDON SPA.
A PERFECT TABLE WATER.
TOOTH & CO. A.gexxtß, Sydney.
★
RACKAROCK
1
HOBART.
—■
Hadley’s Orient fiotel.
Henry Skinner,
Olarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. XOhS.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OP TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and Banquets and
Private Balls £™ abl ° Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
PENFOLD’S
No. 1 Claret
No. 1 Burgundy
Invalid Port
No. 0 Claret
Old Tawny Port
Frontignac
Hock
Chablis
Muscadine
Golden Sherry
WINES
IFF
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
PRICES PER FOOT OF SINGLE AND DOUBLE
BELTING :
2 2} 8 8} 4 5 6 8 10 12 inch.
-ft -IQ -AOJ I/" 1/2 1/6 IAI 2/8 8/4 4/-
1/2 1/4 1/7 IAO 2/2 2/11 8/5 4/5 5/7 6/9
Agent» in every State.
Made by
J. C. LUDOWIGI 8c SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
E diswan - Lamp
xc
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Save no Worthless
Imitations.
mvrnim
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch: 16 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Q’nsland Depot—Central Buildin s Edward-st, Brisbane.
BAXTERS
\A
Jhree fi's
the
EMPIRE HOTEL, SYDNEY
nS^TBALLY^SITTJATEP^^,^
OTARD-MPVY
Estbd. 1795. 25 Years BRANDY.
m
PROOF
USE
da
Head Office:
10 BLICH ST., SYDNEY
WATERBURY WATCHES
Have Stood the Time Test, and the Test of Time,
PRICES BEING LOW and QUALITY HIGH.
COLLINS’ PATENT
Has the following: advantages
over the ordinary Tin Dish—
A flange projects round one half and
prevents the loss of any metal —
fine or coarse.
No experience is required to use it.
A boy can pan off as easily as the
most skilful miner.
Double the amount of work can be
done in a given time than with the
old dish.
Sold by all Storekeepers and Iron-
mongers throughout Australia.
If you have any difficulty in procuring
the Collins’ Patent Dish in your
own district write to—
.JOHNSON CLAPHAM
and MORRIS, LTD.
78 Pitt St, Sydney, and
231 Elizabeth St, Melbourne.
Manufacturers under license from the
Patentee.
PSfsfej
WesMSii
1 .o
The Bulletin
Vol. 23—No. 1152.]
[Saturday, March 15, 1902.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Map M y
-mm
/.■:■:■
do
ctya
De 3aun
c /f&IUOAV
IIPII M-
mm*
* c)
::'in.v?>-
dC:
Sosn.
%&***\
CABO ~ FRESCO.
MfLNE BA Y Chau-1 s -.head
OtOTRJUS
IS VA UNO
mM
JENKINS BAY
Map N° 2
&
■
O fK-; ••’**.• X- •■ ■ •/•••■•
. .*•,*:•.•• v .*3 ;• /.v:*.
:<s>
o
\JV-~4,
U\
o!
THE LATEST BOOKS AT~
. uwvrvo Ml 11—1.
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
71 CABTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) & at Melbourne, Brisbane & '
Brooke-Hunt, Life of Lord Koberts, Ss od, postage 6d.
Sheehan, Luke Delmege, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
IHarmer, Burma (Empire Series), Is 6d, p. 4d.
Sloane’s Electrical Dictionary, 3rd Edt., 9s, p. 9d
Caine, The Eternal City, 2s 6d & 8s 6d, p. 7d.
Doyle, Great Boer War (New Edt.), 2s 6d, p. 6d.
Oroker, Angel, 2s 6d, p. 6d.
Norris, The Embarrassing: Orphan, 2s 6d &-3s 6d n. 6d
Murray, His Own Ghost, 2s, p. sd.
Mackinder, Britain and the British Seas, 7s fld, p, lOd.
Williams, Rontgen Rays, 30s, p. Is 2d.
Waterhouse, Story of Architecture, Is, p, 3d.
Gaulot, Red Shirts : Tale of "The Terror,” 2s, p. 6d.
Dyson, The Gold Seekers, 2s 6d fit'ss 6d, p. 6d.
READY 31st MARCH.
CB€ iuesc snnD,
A Book of Verses by Hubert Church, being
No. Vof The Bulletin Booklets (enlarged). Price
2b. 6d. Orders now being received. The nnrnbAr
of copies is limited.
Cbe Bulletin newspaper ctd,
214 Georgest., Sydney, Australia.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
For
COUGHS, GOLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS ot the
THROAT and
LUNGS.
(REGISTERED}.
ss
X3.S.
IN TINB, Is. 6d.
The Great
Antiseptio Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION.
for Singers
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OR POST FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR
Gr. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q.
SYDNEY DEPOT: 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE ; and FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO., MELBOURNE AGENTS
They ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia.
TORRES'
UNKNOWN
DIS-
COVERIES
If any man shall marvell that, in the discoverynges of
the World, there be little extent of Englishmen’s
travayles, the which have been made for the most part to
places first discovered by others : hee is to understand,
that when those discoveries come to more perfection, and
become more profitable to the adventurers, will then be
more fit for the saide Englishman who will come along
and occupy the same for the honour of his counthrey.”
John Rasteli,.
THE true story of early Australasian Mari-
time Discovery is yet untold. What we
know of it consists of shreds of narrative—
rescued from oblivion and secrecy—con-
fusedly interwoven by modern historians, and
further distorted by clumsy conjecture: so that
he who would fain unravel the mystery which
enshrouds early Australian discovery, and track
the courses of the bold mariners whose ships first
ploughed the waters around this continent, meets
with many difficulties.
The recovery of ancient MSS. and charts, how-
ever, is gradually throwing light on the subject.
Now and again these documents turn up, and we
are enabled to realise more fully the extent of the
work achieved, and give honour to whom honour is
due by fixing the claim of priority of discovery.
Thus, to-day, Torres’ name comes to the front
owing to the recovery of some old Spanish charts.*
With the help of these charts and other docu-
mente hitherto ignoredf I shall endeavour to lift a
portion of the veil which hangs over the most
skilfully conducted and pluckiest navigation ever
undertaken by Spanish navigators in the unknown
waters of the South Pacific Ocean. I refer to
Torres’ voyage along the southern shores of New
Guinea, the full narrative of which, if extant, has
not yet been found.
The events that led up to the cruise in question
were as follows:—The Spaniards, for many years,
had been endeavouring to reach the east coast of
Australia from South America. In pursuance of
this scheme of discovery, an expedition was sent
out in the year 1605. It was composed of three
ships, and an experienced navigator named De
Quiros —who had sailed on a similar voyage ten
years before—was appointed commander. De
Quiros’ lieutenant was one Luis Yaes de Torres,
who is the man we are concerned with in this
gtper. Among the other officers we must note
on Diego de Prado, because he was the carto-
grapher of the expedition and the author of the
recovered charts already alluded to.
On the Ist of May, 1606, the little fleet sighted
the New Hebrides, and De Quiros thought that
he had accomplished his end and discovered the
“ Great South Land.” He was not allowed time,
however, to verify his conjectures, for a mutiny
broke out on board his ship, and he was taken
back to America. Torres, now in command of the
other two ships, ascertained that De Quiros’ Aus-
tralian continent was but an island. Then, having
consulted with his officers, he decided to carry
out the sailing instructions' which, it appeared,
De Quiros had sadly neglected.
In doing so Torres came remarkably close to
Australia, reaching 21° S. latitude in longitudes
between New Caledonia and the coast of Queens-
land. He met with no signs of land in that
direction and steered N.W. to S. latitude,
where, he says: “We fell in with the beginning
of New Guinea.”
* The charts in question were pillaged from the
Spanish archives during the wars of Napoleon I, and
taken to Paris. There, buried away and uncatalogued,
the were .found some years ago by a friend of mine, who
caused them to be returned to their original owners and
acquainted me with their existence, thus enabling me to
get copies of them shortly after their appearance in 1883
in Zarazoga’s work on De Quiros’ voyage, The Sydney
F.P. Library now possesses a copy of Zarazoga’s work.
f Principally Pierre Mortier’s Atlas, published at
Amsterdam in 1700.
We come now to Torres’ unknown discoveries as
revealed by the old Spanish charts. There lies at
the eastern extremity of New. Guinea a group of
beautiful islands supposed to have been first
sighted in the year 1873 by the leader of an
English expedition, bent on discovery. Captain
John Moresby, of H.M.S. Basilisk, the leader in
question, in the account of his discoveries in New
Guinea, published in 1876, says: “I trust that
the work done by H.M.S. Basilisk, in waters
hitherto untracted, on shores hitherto v/ntrodden,
and amongst races hitherto unknown by Europea/ns,
will be held to call for some account.”
Now, a glance at maps Nos. 1 and 2 will show
how Moresby’s work had been forestalled by
Torres. In those maps I have given the outlines
of portions of Moresby’s surveys (map No. 2), to-
gether with the corresponding features of the
first of the three long-lost Spanish charts which
belong to our subject (see map No. 1). Those
features and place-names will reveal some of the
most important of Torres’ discoveries at the south-
east end of New Guinea, where the Spanish
navigator made his first stay in order to refresh
the crews of his two little ships.
From a legend on the chart we learn that during
five days and nights the Spaniards stood in sight
of those tantalising, verdant shores, unable to
effect a landing, threading their way through
perilous reefs and over dangerous shoals. Then,
at last, they rounded, no doubt, the oape which
Torres called Gabo de tres Hermanns, or Cape of
the Three Sisters, passed the next point marked
A on the map, and came to anchor in a little bay
which was called Puerto de San Francisco. It is
situated near the south-east entrance to Rocky
Pass, between Basilisk and Hay ter Islands, and
formed, in all probability, during their sojourn in
these parts, the centre of their various excursions
to the islands and bays around. Its name gives
us the date, 14th J uly (1606), of Torres’ landing,
for it was customary in those days to name dis-
coveries after the saints of the calendar; but the
feast of St. Bonaventure occurs also on July 14,
so that name was likewise made use of, and given
to the whole territory discovered.
Contrary to Torres’, Moresby’s approach, in the
year 1873, was from the N.E., where the mainland
of New Guinea was supposed to extend beyond
Hayter, Basilisk, and Moresby Islands. The
English captain had already cut off Moresby
Island, left his good ship Basilisk at anchor in the
strait thus discovered (Fortescue Strait), and—
the numerous reefs rendering further navigation
impossible for his ship—taken to his boats, the
galley and cutter (“Discoveries in New Guinea,”
Moresby, page 197 et sequitur). They rounded
the northern shores of what Moresby thought
might prove to be the beginning of New Guinea,
when suddenly a bay seemed to open towards the
South. Moresby entered it, and, by the merest
chance, hit upon the identical narrow passage
which Torres, 267 years previously, had discovered
from the south side and named Bocca de la Battala,
Mouth of the Battle, —having, no doubt, had an
encounter there with the natives. Moresby called
that mouth Rocky Pass, and grew enthusiastic
at the discovery, and at having “separated
another island from New Guinea.” He was
anxious to find if Rocky Pass would afford a
passage for the ship, and spent the remainder of
the day in examining it; but a rocky ledge,
which ran aoross, barred it to the ships, and made
it dangerous even for boats at the strength of the
tide.
Moresby’s experiences help to show the diffi-
culties that the Spaniards had to deal with, and
also that Torres must have been compelled to
leave his two ships at anchor somewhere to the
south of the Baya de San Millan —St. Francisco
Bay, for instance—and use the only rowing-boat
he had for his excursions. In this he explored the
bay formed by the horse-shoe shape of Basilisk
Island, named it the Baya de San Millan (modern
Jenkins Bay), and penetrated to the largest bay
of all the lands he had discovered in this region—
that is, Milne Bay. He says: “We went a long
way out from Gabo Fresco (modern Challis Head
of Moresby’s chart) which is as far as we could go
towards the east in a boat.”
Other nautical remarks which I translate from
the old Spanish text of the chart are: “Towards
the east (N.E.) we did not see the end of the land,
but we could judge from the various small islands
that the channels were wide. We did not notice
any channels towards the west, only land and con-
tinuous lofty ridges, Tierra alta y gerrada (The
Mount Owen Stanley Range). We steered in that
direction, but had to give up further progress
after a while owing to the inadequacy of our
boat.” These and other notes on the Spanish
chart correspond exactly with Moresby’s descrip-
tion of Milne Bay ; and the dimensions given to
that bay by De Prado, the cartographer (40 leagues
in circumference), may be considered as a very
correct estimate.
On the 18th of July Torres and his party, having
concluded their running survey of Basilisk Island,
landed and took possession in the name of the
King of Spain, naming, as I have said, the whole
territory the Tierra\ de San Buenaventura.
I mentioned in the beginning of this paper,
“ other documents hitherto ignored.” It is now
opportune for me to make use of some of those
documents. One of them, a much-distorted copy
of a general map, made by Torres’ cartographer,
is invaluable at this juncture. A careful examina-
tion of its features shows that Torres’ Tierra de San
Buenaventura (Basilisk Island) is one of several
islands off the south-eastern extremity of New
Guinea; and, by coupling this fact with what
Torres says of his inability to navigate the bay
(Milne Bay of Moresby’s chart) and proceed east
of Cabo Fresco (Moresby’s Challis Head), al-
though he noticed wide channels in that
direction, we may infer that the reefs and
coral patches (not contrary winds as generally
believed) compelled him to seek the south-west
passage to Manila. This becomes still more
evident when we consider that Moresby also was
unable to take his ship through to the northern
shores.
From these regions Torres Sailed to the Great
Bay of St. Lawrence (Orangerie Bay), discovered
August 10th, 1606. Here another extensive survey
was made and a township laid out. Then
the littlfc squadron went right up into the
Gulf of Papua and down again to 11° S. latitude.
Not, therefore, through Torres Strait, so called, did
Torres pass, but through Captain Cook’s Endea-
vour Strait. Sailing along the islands to the
north of Australia, between Cape York and
Prince of Wales Island, Torres regained the
shores of New Guinea, and put in at the Bay of
St. Peter of Arlanza (modern Triton Bay). There
he took possession on the 18th of October, 1606,
and, after a lengthy stay, sailed away to the
Philippine Islands.
Included in the title-piece of this papw will be
noticed a general outline of Torres’ run along the
southern shores of New Guinea. His three prin-
cipal ports of call are marked by Maltese crosses;
a continuous line shows the track he followed,
whereas a dotted line indicates what is erron-
eously believed to be the course he followed. In
passing through Endeavour Strait it will be
noticed that he came much closer to Australia
than is generally believed.
GEORGE COLLINGRIDGE.
We have n’t heard much of Frank Myers lately,
in the local literary way; but in his heyday the
man had vim. Possibly no other ever silenced old
Jack Robertson. Myers pinned Jack once to the
wall of the Athenaeum club, when that also was
in its heyday, and treated him to a scathing de-
nunciation of the Free Selection - Act—a real
Demosthenian invective which described the
greed, the roguery, the perjury the Act had be-
gotten, and wound up with a terrific) picture of the
permanent degradation of society due to “You,
the source and origin of evil; you, the archi-
tect of the edifice of chicanery; you, the
Father of Free Selection—the Father of Woe
Everlasting.” The rhetoric swept old Jack off
his mental legs; he listened, speechless, to the
end; and when he was let go shuffled to the
bar before he loosed the single comment he was
ever known to make. “Brandy !by God ! ”
On another occasion Myers gave Dailey occasion
for one of his happiest speeches. The scene was
again the Athenaeum club; the time, when the
club gave a dinner to Archibald Forbes. Myers
was more than eloquent; he was violent.
The Athenaeum, he said, was the only club in
Sydney worth the name. The others—he shud-
dered while denouncing them. He referred to
the rumours of high play at a certain club—and
Jack Robertson, the president of the Reform
Club, which was the one meant, sat opposite,
glowering at him. The situation was strained;
and everybody felt uncomfortable, expecting old
Jack to reply and spoil the evening’s harmony—
he was obviously waiting his chance. But Dailey
interposed before Jack could rise—Dailey the re-
sourceful and alert. The table breathed: surely he
was going to smooth things over. Then there was
one ghastly moment. ‘ ‘ Everything, ” commenced
Dailey, “ everything that has been said is true,
and I grieve to say it. But Mr. Myers has not
told one-half—no, not one-tithe of the truth.”
Then Dailey out-Heroded Herod. He continued
Mgers’ attack to the pitch of ludicrous exagge-
ration. He warned Forbes that if, relying on his
Jouth and innocence, he went to the Reform Club,
e would be swept into the awful whirlpool of green
cloth. Nothing could save him, once caught in
the vortex. He might appeal to his virtue—
in vain ! He might rely on his experience— a
reed, a broken reed ! His good angel would fly
shrieking; his bad angel would preen triumphant
wings. “Round and round you will go, Mr.
Forbes, down and down and down, until the
great war-correspondent is lost! lost! LOST!”
And laughter and the waiters saved the situation.
?%.,■«* «
pleasant verse w i(-i?° me f? XGn books of verse—
Se JSoS- »“3S£ g »& bul a
jfetSJ* is °'#S^> r
impression of a acc | ua,l^ a nee with : it leaves the
noetrv • hm- if i n , y m lnd, attuned with
S 3 bTvS^&.* re ° f ***
SONG.
Seek not the tree of silkiest bark
And balmiest bud,
To carve her name while yet ’tis dark
Upon the wood :
The world is full of noble tasks
And wreaths hard won :
Each work demands strong hearts, strong hands,
Till day is done.
Sing not that violet-veined skin,
That cheek’s pale roses,
The lily of that form within
Her soul reposes !
Forth to the fight, true man 1 true knight I
The clash of arms
Shall more prevail than whisper’d tale
To win her charms.
The warrior for the True, the Right,
Fights in Love’s name ;
The love that lures thee from that fight
Lures thee to shame :
That love which lifts the heart, yet leaves
The spirit free,—
That love, or none, is fit for one
Man-shaped like thee.
J*
Lond. Times proprietary’s sale of Literature to
The Academy may be taken as a proof that in
England a first-rate literary weekly cannot be
made to pay. It cannot subsist on circulation;
it must cater to the publishers for advertisements;
whence arises a dilemma unpleasant for either the
editor’s self-respect or the proprietor’s purse.
The Athencev/m is a conservative exception of long
standing, at whose thunder the other old fogeys
still tremble, though during the last few years
lightning has been rarer. H. D. Traill’s idea of
Literature was an Athencev/m slightly more up-to-
date ; and since his death the paper has been at-
tempting the interesting compromise between
dignified tradition and the New Journalism.
Apparently it lost old readers without gaining new
ones; and the transfer to The Academy proprietary
ends the agony. The Academy has been the
brightest _of the Lond. literary weeklies since
Lewis Hind took charge five years ago; and the
new purchase should give scope for still better
things.
“A.J.G.”: I once had simple faith in Mary
Spencer Warren, the lady whose forte it is to
write of kings and queens and such in the English
magazines. (I had not met those kings and
queens. ) But M.S.W. has recently written of our
late visitor, the Cipher o’ York, in Pearson’s ; and
my faith in her has vanished. Says she (italics
mine): —
... All who have come in contact with the Duke of
Cornwall and York will have realised at once that he is
a 'most thorough Englishman in his disposition and ways,
and an Englishman of the best type, too. Frank, generous,
vigorous, methodical, fond of a good joke, and thoroughly
kind-hearted. He is a man who exerts a powerful in-
fluence over those who are in any way associated with
him ; and in his seafaring days especially he helped many
a weak-minded one by his honest fearlessness and rigid
uprightness of character. . . . [He] has won for himself
quite as much popularity amongst the British people as
ever he did amongst the officers and men of the naval
service. The more he is seen in their midst the more he
is liked. When he spealcs it does one good to hear his
clear and vigorous enunciation, and to note the manly,
earnest way in which he gives expression to his thoughts
—utterances which bespeak a cultivated mind and a wide
knowledge of affairs of the world. . . .
You see, I have both heard and seen the Duke!
Fancy talking in that way about the enervated
and characterless little being whom we saw
brushed, dressed, and carted here, there, and
everywhere like a showman’s dummy!
Reported from London that both Henry Lawson
and Louise Mack are making preparations for
return to Australia. The fact is, as Patchett
Martin affirmed and Ambrose Pratt re-affirms, •
the Australian literary man or woman can very
well, nowadays make sis London profit without
leaving Australia. London does not particularly
want Australian work, unless of the adventurous
Becke class, which is readable whatever its field.
The fidelity to Australian life and character, for
example, which is Lawson’s peculiar merit, gives
him a foreign and uninviting air in England. The
English don’t comprehend such work unless it is
universalised, so to speak—made plain to limited
understandings by a levelling of local features and
an increase of general dramatic effect. And, as
Pratt found out,. for the inexperienced author to
deal in person with the average London publisher
is merely to increase sis risk of being robbed. The
literary agent—and there are possibly half-a-dozen
good agents in London—is better able to find a
market and better able to get the highest market
price.


NMMUGALL’S SHEEP DIP
THE ORIGINAL NON-POISONOUS DIP.
3M‘P OXTG-AT«Ti BROS., S Spring Street, Sydney.
AGENTS:
N.Z. L. & M.A. Co., Ltd., Australia and New Zealand Strachan, Cheedle & Co., Adelaide; J. B. Curran, Hobart,
SKINS
Send to
Kangaroo,
Wallaby,
Rabbit,
Opossum.
WINCHGOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
SYDNEY,
and so obtain utmost possible prices.
Undeniable Fig'll res prove that our PERFECT and UP-TO-DATE
system of handling Wool meets with full appreciation from Woolgrowers.
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO. Ltd.
SYDKTEY.
During the Season 1901-2 we offered at auction SI,SOS bales, and sold
at auction and privately ex Catalogue 54,245 bales, thus firmly
establishing ourselves as the LEADING Wool Selling Brokers of Sydney on
account of COUNTRY CONSIGNORS.
We invite inspection of our popular TRUST A/c System and of the figures given above.
N.B.—Our Figures do NOT include private Sales of Uncatalogued Wool. George Maiden, Manager.
't'
o
v»^>
IP
OLD
HNS
SUNBU,
fing
"1
CHA
<5»
>1
&S.C
z/tr
s
H
y
Fetors.
CALVERTS
CARBOLIC
TOOTH
POWDER
IS THE BEST DENTAL
PRESERVATIVE.
Has the Largest Sale of any Dentifrice.
Sold by Chemists, Stores, &o.
F. C. CALVERT & Co,, Manchester, Eng.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK; Price, 4s. 6d
HAVE THE
BEST
§99»8«1H
=1
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE FENCE
Is built by a light, handy machine, easily operated, which will weave
THREE CHAINS OF FENCE AN HOUR.
The Lateral Wires are two-ply cable of best Gal. Steel Wire intersected by Crimped Steel Ptcieto
securely interwoven at any desired distance apart, forming/ a perfect Web Fence which will hold
securely all kinds af Stock.
FOR CATALOGUES AND PARTICULARS
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE PENCE CO.,
128 Franklin St., Melbourne ; 143 Sussex St., Sydney,
WONDERFUL VALUE IN CIGARS.
SINGLE BOX AT WHOLESALE PRICE.
GUARANTEE: EVERY GIGLAR SOUND AND IN PERFECT CONDITION.
Goods Exchanged or Money Returned.
CIGARS
ROMA QUEENS
LA PAROL A, Reliable Smoke ..
HIGH LIFE MENDOZAS
NIMROD REIN A VICTORIA ..
LA SPECIAL, from Choicest Leaf
SANTIAGO LA FLOR, Fine Quality
“ LEOLA,” Borneo, Mild Smoking
“ EL RIVAL,” Borneo, Full Flavor
HEAVY WEIGHTS (P. De Mendoza)
“PERLA” BOUQUET ..
“EL MUNDO ” (Rothschilds) ..
“ MENDOZA ” (Rothschilds)
‘ ‘ PERLA ” (Rothschilds)
“MINERVA” No. 1 MANILA ..
“WINDSOR LADY” (Manila Regalia) ..
“PERLA MINERVA,” MANILA, Fine Quality
FLOR DE NAVES (Havana Reina)
lIENRY CLAY (Havana Couchas, Extra)
DELIVERED FREE OF DUTY AND CHARGES.
SEND FOR
OUR
LIST
OF
C. 8.8.
BRIAR
PIPES
I
TOBACCO MERCHANT and IMPORTER,
MICK SIMMONS,
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILUP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY, Stores: PYRMONT.
So le Charge : 3 Per Cent. t;o the Growers.
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge Jd. per lb. to the Buyers.
A Letter from Archdeacon Lingard.
Christchurch, N.Z.,
February 25th, ’Ol.
Dear Sirs, —
I have much pleasure in testifying to the value
of Warner’s Safe Cure.
Nearly four years ago, after having tried several
remedies for Diabetes without success, my medical
man consented to my trying Warner’s Safe Cure.
At that time there was no prospect of my living
above a few months. At first I took six table-
spoonfuls a day. I began to improve in health
immediately, and was soon able to undertake my
regular duties. During the last four years I have
never been without the Safe Cure in the house, at
times reducing the doses to one per diem, and occa-
sionally going without altogether for a month or so.
At the present time, though not altogether
cured (at my age I can hardly expect it), I am able
to undertake the arduous duties of a large parish
single-handed, and without much fatigue.
I have no hesitation in saying that my present
fairly good state of health is due to Warner’s Safe
Cure, and I shall ever feel grateful that it came my
way.
Yours, etc.,
EDW. ATH. LINGrAR,D,
Archdeacon of Akaroa.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Limited.
WARNER’S SAFE CURE
cures all diseases arising: from a disordered condition of the Kidneys and Liver.
Indigestion
Dyspepsia
Biliousness
Sick Headache
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Lumbago
Backache
Sciatica
Anaemia
General Debility
Blood Disorders
Gravel
Bladder Troubles
Bright’s Disease
All arise from a diseased condition of the Kidneys and L'ver, and Warner’s 3afe Cure cures them all,
speedily and permanently, by restoring the Kidneys and Liver to health, thus ensuring the due removal
from the blood of the poisonous acids and other impurities which, by their presence, cause these dis-
tressing and dangerous complaints.


TATTERSALL’S.
Aaoress: Care GEO. ADAMS, Hotoart.
DONCASTER H. March 29.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
Name
Address L_
SYDNEY:: 0.
March 31.
50,000 Subscribers at 5-
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
Name
Address
City Tattersall’s H.
50,000 Subscribers at 5-
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
Name
Address
£> i ;
April 12.
shares in above.
ADELAIDE 0. May 7.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
Name
A ddr ess
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars
Address “ Tatter sail,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


“ms
*
■
i
INDIGESTION&
Biliousness
PI
MILD
m
w
FOR
Infants
and INVAUDS
ASTHMACURE
1 SRIMAULTS INDIAN CIGAFIETTES I
For Asthmatic people who suffer from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault’s Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across .the chest.
GRIM AULT & Co., Pariß. Bold by allChemistß.
nbxc
Dr. J. W. GIBBS’
. . Electric Massage Rollers . .
For use on Face and Body.
For NERVOUS HEADACHES,
NEURALGIA and RHEUMATISM
—a specific. Removes Wrinkles.
Gold, 21/- Silver, 16/-
Post Free. Pamphlets Free.
AMERICAN AGENCY COMPANY,
Box 440, G.P.0.,
Melbourne.
Franz Josef
APERIENT WATER
|S the ONLY PALATABLE NATURAL
APERIENT WATER.
Sole Agents ßocke, Tompsitt & Co., Melbourne.
The Roman
Hair
Restorer
Produces Brown and Black Hair.
Price 1/6 ; by post, 2/3.
An inexpensive and
certain preparation for
renewing and restoring
'to its original color the
hair of the head, beard
and whiskers.
Largely used by the Roman ladies for preserving their
magnificent tresses. Nourishes the roots and removes
dandruff ; increases the quantity, and renders it glossy
and supple ; does not stain the skin nor soil the linen. If
your hair is falling off or turning grey, use this.
CAUTION. —This being different from most prepara-
tions, other kinds should be refused.
JAMES BRINSMEAD and CO., Chemists, ST. KILDA.
J3T' All Chemists sbll it.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
Established 1849.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold of
Leasehold City or Suburban
Pre«utJ«B, or on
Freehold and C.P. (combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per cent,
of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
TTF.AT) OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
RICHARD TEEOE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
KXOUtTw
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 10s-
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
S3T Send for a
Catalogue.
r
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HII/LIER, 130' Sussex-streot.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY,
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams foe., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
PLAYER’S
WORLD
FAMED
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
m
WHOLESALE
Distributing Agents
New South Wales —
M. RUTTY & CO.,
SYDNEY.
Victoria —
j. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia —
Hart, Lawrence & Co.
Propy. Ld., Adelaide
Western Australia —
Lionel Samson & Son,
Fremantle
Queensland —
Thos. Brown & Sons, Ld.
Brisbane
Burns, Phllp & Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania —
Watohorn Bros.,
Hobart
John McKenzie & Co.,
Launceston
New Zealand—
D. Benjamin & Co.
Dunedin, Wellington
and Ohristohuroh.
v.v
Highest Grade of Quality / Finish.
D®“ Every Pipe Guaranteed.
PRIZE MEDAL, Paris Exhibition, 1900.
Australian Agents:
M. RUTTY & CO., New South Wales.
J. E. HUNT, Victoria.
THOMAS BROWN & SONS, LTD., Queensland.
HART LAWRENCE & CO. PROP. LTD., South Australia.
A. Gr. & E. T. KNOX, West Australia.
THE
‘PLUM’
6P7
THE
‘PLUM’
f ENTLEMEN. —This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
VJT ijjje a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edee that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO TEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7a 6d.
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Price
f Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21a
\ Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part op the World.
flsff please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
MARTELLS
“A genuine
old Brandy
made from
Wine.”
Medical Press.
THREE STAR
“Particularly suitable
for Medicinal
Purposes.”
Tha Lancet.
BRANDY.
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company
When In town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description ot
SADDLERY? II so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £IL
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies' Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for les9
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 pet
cent more for your requirements.
1&3 to 195 Clevoland*Btreet, Rodforn, SYDNJS Y
OUK SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
nbvn
Delivered at any Wharf or
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Indoors or Out?
Who lives longest, those who work indoors or
those exposed to the weather ? Who is healthiest,
the indoor or the outdoor man T the bootmaker or
the postman, the compositor or the ’bus-driver.
’Tis hard to say, more especially as_we have it on
the authority of an eminent physician that even
horses sometimes suffer from indigestion. Pro-
bably the trade which partakes partly of both is
healthiest for the worker. Certainly indigestion
is not specially the property of workers in large
cities, for here is Mr. Thomas Deere, who writes
from Ferry Lane, Newtown, Maryborough, Queens-
land, under date March 13,1901, saying : “ About
16 years ago I was working on the roads and
was badly attaoked by indigestion. Wind col-
lected round my heart, sometimes at night, un-
til I thought that it would cease to beat, and I
used to jump out of bed thinking my time had
come. After suffering like this for a number of
years I happened to read a pamphlet which
induced me to try what Mother Seigel’s Syrup
would do for me. You will not be surprised
that I was soon restored to good health. But
I was very much surprised indeed myself, for
before using that medicine two doctors in Roek-
hamption had certified that I was suffering from
disease of the heart. Since my cure I have been
in excellent health, except occasionally when
some food may disagree with me, in which case
a dose of Seigel’s Syrup never fails to set me
right again. I have lived in Maryborough for 10
years and have recommended Mother Seigel s
Syrup to hundreds of people, explaining to them
my own case.”
Mr. Deere’s case is in no respect uncommon.
Many men who were long ago told they had but
a short time to live are happily still with us. A
fentleman is now residing at St. Albans, _ in
Ingland, aged 69, not very robust, but m fairly
good health for a man at his period of life,
who in May, 1855, went to a physician of the
highest rank in London, explained his ailments,
paid a fee of five guineas, and in return was
advised to arrange his affairs, and it was unlikely
that he would live until the end of the year !
Verily, the Irishman who said that no man had a
right to consider himself dead until he had been
buried a month, was an accurate observer.
The St. Albans gentleman in 1855, living within
20 miles of the greatest city in the world, paid
five guineas for a prophecy which for absurdity
has rarely been surpassed by a gypsy fortune-
teller. Forty-five years later, at the other side
of the world, in a place almost terra incognita
in 1855, Mr. Richard Deere is cured of his malady
for a few shillings. It is a case of other times
other manners, later age more knowledge.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
One Austral Night.
The sunflowers facing to the West,
Brave pages of the court, have bowed
Their King, in all his splendor drest,
Through the gold arras of the cloud;
Then lovingly, more lowly yet,
Make deep obeisance to the arc
Where the dear Queen of Night has set
Her jewelled hands across the dark.
A South wind gathers from the range
The blended scent of herb and pine
To lay upon her lips, and change
Her dewy breath to bridal wine.
A thousand crickets shake to song
The feathery oak-boughs in the grove;
To Love, those thrilling notes belong,
And you and I belong to Love !
The bull-frogs in the moonlight call,
The curlews in the night confide,
And, hand in hand, we know them all,
As lovesick lovers undenied !
Low down the plain the team-bells chime,
A lone note here—a jingle there !
Ah, Love ! My Love ! How sweet the time !
Oh, Love ! for love the place how fair!
Your eyes make challenge unto mine,
And bold I snatch the gauntlet up;
The merry moonbeams mix the wine,
The laughing South wind lifts the cup!
The world is all too far to blame
White Honour bartered for Despair,
And if the Shadows hide for shame,
The sunflowers know the price is fair !
The soft snow lies upon the wold,
The moaning fir-boughs sway and drip,
The moon whose hand we loved to hold
Turns down a careless finger-tip.
Remember ! —Love beyond the Sea !
There is a night that none can take —
Ah ! keep that one witch-hour for me
And memory—for memory’s sake !
U.K.
WILL OGILVIE.
Song.
He wanders all his shore down,
The reedy River slow;
And we have laid the oar down
To sing that she may know:
“ There’s Summer still to hold the hill
Before the blossoms go 1
“ 0 daybright of the Day !
’Tis only Heart can tell with art
What Tongue finds hard to say.
And we are here and waiting
For twilight time to die;
And we are here and hating
The rays of sunset sky
That play upon the water gray
That swings your garden by.
“ Ah come, whate’er befalling ;
The Summer’s joyance pledge l
Ah, trace the old steps falling
To reedy river-edge !
’Tis Night and I are calling,
Nor take for answer, No :
We shall not be denied with you,
For we have come to bide with you,
To dream the summer-tide with you
Before the blossoms go ! ”
via
MERIDEN.
To My Country.
A wind-blown, shimmering, shifting, awful waste,
Fringed by a broken edge of green and grey—
A ghastly field for devilish winds at play ;
A painful tale of desperate men that faced
The loathly hell, of hard-won pathways traced
In dull white bones, of a race whose long decay
Gives warning to the pallid crowd to-day
To seek a land by greener beauty graced :
Australia ! thou whose dust, made flesh, has given
Power to my soul to warn thy people now,
To me these horrors are a thing of naught.
O, nurse of serfdom, how shalt thou be shriven
Of threadbare knees and dust-enshrouded brow,
Mother of slaves who dare not speak their
thought ?
N.S.W.
B.
The Old Gods.
O, ye gods, if you could tell us
What ye are—if banned or blessed—
Ye that reigned of old in Hellas 1
Ye that ruled the radiant West!
Old-bom gods ! The Past still flashes
In the eyes of Greece and Rome,
Ye are not mere dust and ashes
Umed for all the years to come.
Ye that ruled in heavenly places,
And the faith of mortals won !
Gods created by old races
Perished from beneath the sun,
Bom of faith and with it blended
Ye shall still the world inspire;
Till the last breath has ascended
From the latest altar fire.
All the hopes and invocations
Breathed by lips of heroes dead,
All the genius of the nations
Who the march of Freedom led—
Though your temples broke and fell as
Dusty fanes of little worth—
These will keep ye, gods of Hellas !
Still alive upon the earth.
N.S.W.
R. CRAWFORD.


DISEASE CONQUERED by the
Freeman & Wallace Electro-Medical System.
GENERAL DEBILITY: Its Treatment, Causes, and Cure.
. , . A SCIENTIFIC DISCOVERY
T
productive of so many nervous troubles in later life, and which lead to hype^sens < !i^ ,C cond < irn
the nervous system. The Specialists of the Eleetm . e cont,ltlon s of
proved in thousands of instances that the scope for the intervene™ ar,c * Su *"gical Institute have
puetics in functional and organic diseased of thfceS n " of Electro-Thera-
Ol physiol medication is Mnfr exploited, by which arc W* t a
quered, and vaiuablc lives ere Call, saved f ro m p„m" “d " 5 C ’ ,e "“ d “ d
A NEW TREATMENT.
IM EDICAL SCIENCE, like all developments of progressive thought, is liable to change, and although
thousands of persons have died under their doctors, proving that Medical Science is a most
inexact one, thousands have been placed upon a plane of* perfect physical excellence
by following the advice and submitting to the new treatment of the Specialists of the Institute. Their
research into the character and causation of exhaustive nervous diseases proves that palliation of their
chief symptoms may be followed by complete radical changes in the system of a man or woman,
arresting 1 completely the process of disease. Symptoms of disease in the nervous system often arise from
structural changes in the nervous tissues themselves, and these changes, unless treated effectively, are destructive
To subdue these symptoms, arrest the course of the disease, and save the suffeier’s life, is
the aim and the end of the Specialist’s study.
Electric Invigorator " as Worn by Men or Women.
ñ
TTHE treatment for the Renovation of
■ Debilitated or Enfeebled
Con stitutions, arising from physio-
logical or climatic causes, must possess a
well-defined restorative influ-
ence, acting at once on all the functions
of the body, increasing digestion,
blood-formation, assimilation,
innervation, invigoration, as well
as healthy nutritive processes. If these
can be assured, a new being is cre-
ated. The treatment which lends itself
with peculiar adaptability to all impaired
nervous systems is that of Electric-
Medication, or the combined sys-
fem of Medicine and Electricity.
In these two great remedial factors lies
strength for the strengthless;
power for the palsied ; health
for the unhappy. Electricity is Life ;
Disease is Death. If you wish to be a
, „ , strong man or woman, with the
power to walk long upon the paths of human pleasure; to lay aside the
crutches of your physical impairment and enjoy Life as it is
given in health to mankind; you should adopt this new treatment
Your adoption means endorsement. You will be cured in a few weeks or
gratef 1 ul o thlnifs mOSt persistent complaint. You will send us your
EFFECT OF TREATMENT UPON LONG STANDING
DISEASES.
lately received testimonies from persons who had
n»«o- 8Uff B ed -. fr ° m . Bad ! Stomach 3, Indigestion, Dys-
. ,a ’. pl eptic Fits, Convulsions, Palpitation,
Insomnia, Sick Headaches, Bad, Painful Backs,
Kidney and Bladder Troubles, Sciatica, Ner-
vousness, Rheumatism and Functional Disor-
ders, for many years, expressing their delight at their
St ® a . dy recovory from th eir troubles after so much hopeless
suffering. Physicians of the widest experience endorse this
treatment as one that will effect radical changes in the
curing of diseases that have hitherto baffled the professional
Already the “ Rontgen Rays” have been successfully
used in the London hospitals in checking the ravages of
Cancer. What secrets are not hidden in the application of
this current which animates all living things from
Pole to Pole? No man or woman need give up hope,
thinking themselves doomed, when relief is at hand The
new treatment of the Institute is invaluable ; it sunolies the
is lacking®
to the enfeebled frame. The best nerve-and-muscle invigorator
at present within the grasp of the public is the
“Electric Invigorator ” of the Institute.
POWERS OP RESTORATION AND SENSATION.
THE action of this
■ marvellous recuper-
ative agent upon the
nervous system is direct
and practical. Worn
around the loins in close
proximity to the nerves
traversing the lumbar
parts of the body, its ef-
fect upon the digestive
organs is at once mani-
fest. It imparts a healthy
activity to the nervous
system, a gentle, con-
stant electrifyingcurrent
dominates the nutritive
functions and stimulates
them. It builds anew
the elements of the ner-
vous system, causing
normal functional ac-
tivity arid powers of
gn
ñ
vn
ñg
sensation. Its effect upon all nervous systems is equal, it gives energy to the brain,
courage to the heart, strength to the sinews, “ grit ” to the muscles ; it transforms
the weak into physical and mental giants. The cosc of this wonderful electrical
agent is but the sum of £l. It is guaranteed by two of Sydney’s leading Elec-
tricians as the. completest, most efficacious, least expensive, and most delicately-
constructed scientific instrument of its kind used in medical science.
STARTLING PROOFS.
SCIENTIFIC STATEMENTS.
T U tr n ll , ard *? m | nin B'> farming, droving, quarrying, navvying, fencing, will dis-
cover in this treatment a boon. It will revive him when he is tired and weary He will
sleep as sweetly as a child. This instrument does not burn, blister, or cause any dis-
— 7 ~ - ■ -- •
m
■
■
m
.
m
comfort. Its electric discs
are covered with soft
chamois pads, which rest
upon the skin. Boxers,
trainers, athletes, foot,
bailers, crioketers, re-
cord its usefulness and
efficacy. Many great pugi-
listic battles have been
fought and won; in some
instances the victory has
been caused by an “ Elec-
tric Invigorator.” Here
is a remarkable testimony
from a man known far and
wide in the professional
world of pugilism. To the
wearing of an “ Electric
Invigorator ” Mr. Mat
Mitchie attributes the suc-
cess of one of his toughest
encounters in the ring. In
this match he required courage, grit, power:
enduranoe, stamina ; and strength to wear down
and eel ips® a brilliant adversary was a necessity.
He secured it through the means above stated, and
which he affirms in his testimony. Read it. If you
.are a pugilist, remember it when your next battle
comes.
[OOI'Y.J
The “ Golden Gate ” Athletic Club,
To Messrs. Freeman & Waffifce'" 6 StU et ’ S - vdne y-
ElectrO’Medical anp Surgical Institute
Sydney.
Gentlemen,-1 have much pleasure in stating that
1 have worn your “Electric Invigorator” during
anil training for iny reeent fight with Denny Moloney^
’t-sbeneficaal, strengthening effect on my
2 ® ,L a , ttrib^-« uch of the v 'ff°r and staying
power that enabled jne to successfully withstand
Moloney s continuous attacks, and eventually win
, Th , e contest lasted 20 rounds, and a
of stren « th and stamina, as well
bke wAi t 0 Stay th , afc len S th of time against a man
attri wl° 6y n• u*? v eat him > and mnch of tl'ese
effeot exhibited! by me I credit .to the beneficial
jouSS ”* y tW * leM " ln
Sidney, tZStiSP''
Such. Testimonials
speak for themselves.
DURING THE NEXT
THREE MONTHS
OUR £6 6s. BELT
WILL BE FORWARDED
TO ANY PART OF
AUSTRALIA
FOR £1
DRAIN-FAG is one of the penalties of civilisation. Excessive brain labor exhausts the
nervous system more speedily than physical duties. One affects the muscular system
only, demanding' its strength. The other saps and drains the sources and springs of that’
nervous energy which is
the foundation of the
faculty of creative
thought, and mentally ex-
hausts the worker. Men
who earn their living: by
the pen suffer from brain-
fag ; thousands die yearly
through _ mental decline.
With them, the pen is not
mightier than the sword.
To any of the class of
thinkers who concentrate
and focus their thoughts
laboriously upon one
especial study, they should
read the following testi-
mony from a professional
musician, lately starring
with one of Mr. Percy
Dix’s theatrical companies
in New Zealand. He went
through a long, trying engagement successfully.
He attributes his success to the restorative
methods of the Specialists of the Institute. Here
is his testimony :
Empire Theatre, Castlereagh-street, Sydney,
August 12th, 19C1.
The Specialists,
Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute, Sydney.
Gentlemen, —I have much pleasure in testifying
to the marvellous benefits' I have obtained from the
Electro-Medical treatment I have received from your
Institute.
In my profession, as pianist, in theatrical work, I
find, after a lengthy engagement such as I have had
in New Zealand, that the system is thereby greatly'
impaired, and for this purpose I had consulted your
staff of Specialists.
I had been treated by some of the best medical
practitioners here before visiting you, but from their
treatment I found no benefit whatever. It was
utterly useless.
I write this purely unsolicited, and just to say that
anyone suffering from prostration, general debility,
brain-fag through excessive labor, and complete
decline of the nervous system, could not do better
than pay an immediate visit to the Specialists of
your remarkable Institute.
I remain yours sincerely,
(Signed) F. H. BROWN.
u ..
m
¥'m- }
m
P>
Tliey are rich in Merit and. Truth.
RUPTURE.
mHE toughest and best-tempered steel becomes dulled in time and so does
the most energetic mind and strongest body at times become strained.
WE CURE RUPTURE and we cure it so that it will remain cured
Our methods are modern, reliable, permanent. We haw cured more
cases of Rupture than any other association of medical men in Australasia.
Our “ Electric Truss ” is an unsurpassed agent for strengthening- the
weakened abdominal walls. Nine out of every ten can be cured in
three months by our system of painless treatment without loss of
time or interruption of business. We have numberless testimonials to
this effect.
DOUBLE ELECTRIC TRUSS.
cn
Used an cases of Inguinal Hernia. It causes no
irritation or sense of discomfort ; it is built on the
Moc-Main Lever principle, and its parts are covered
with ®oft Chamois Leather Pads which rest softly
on the skin, ensuring comfort, ease, and certainty
of action. Guaranteed not to BURN, BLISTER,
or IRRITATE.
SPECIALITIES.
rriHE following are Specialities of the Institute. Anyone suffering
from long-standing' cases should apply to the Specialists
Anaemia, Functional Heart Trouble, Impaired Digestion, Dys-
pepsia, Sick or Nervous Headache, Sciatica, Kidney Inflamma-
tion, Congestion, Diabetes, Dropsy, Lumbago, Rheumatism,
Liver- Affections, Varicose Veins, Neurasthenia or Vital Weak-
ness, Varicocele, Abscess, Nervousness, Catarrh, Chest and
Lung Affections, Asthma. Ninety per cent, of long-standing cases of
the above diseases have been successfully cured. If a man or woman is
incurable, the Specialists frankly say so.
LETTERS.
PRIVACY
THE correspondence
system of the In-
stitute is reliable for
privacy, punctuality,
precision. A letter, as
soon as received, is re-
plied to. It is treated
with professional se-
creey, and no one sees
its contents but the
Specialists themselves.
Some persons are sensi-
tive in medical matters,
and do, not desire publicity. The Institute’s
system is secrecy itself. If medicines are sent to
a patient, they are packed free from observation
and sent to any address tlie patient desires." B
will be the patient’s fault if the secrecy is violated '
Some Voluntary Reliable Testimonials.
was gradual^’kilii^ o ™P ea^ ie ‘ Bfc- ’ ? alma j n > on Ja nuary 20th says I suffered for two years from dyspepsia, which
BoiSu r Killing- me. It caused much of those female weaknesses from which women suffer A course of vour
Electric-Medical treatment has completely restored me to my usual health.” y
I Say f S ’' on November 10th, 1901 I was in a very bad state of general debility, when
f’i d i, 5 sto'5 t0 ' 7°“- 1 endorse y° ur system of Electric-Medical treatment. lam now well,
strong and able to perform all duties desired of-a healthy man.”
you of Vic }i?r ia > 2, ?d, 1902, says in his letter I desire voluntarily to tell you that
chief is it Is effect; vf condition of .Varicocele. I suffered much, but your system has many merits. The
cmei is it is enective. Jam now as strong as I wish to be.”
Mot! tagu M-
I „^'^ BnBbane f •Hterriewed on Sept. last, declares " I did not think I would ever recover.
dr§ams^mAVM t^.^Sh de - aS i arel 1 ase V Weak nerves - dyspepsia, palpitation, lack of strength, bad sleep and
mv To difv T^, P t ySICaI u Wr ?fu ‘ Y S U J s > 9tem of treatment by electricity and medicine worked wonders with
up iiotiy. io-day lam strong, healthy and happy, and. a most contented man.”
A USEFUL VOLUME.
Clinical experiences ” is a hand.
some, useful medical work, published
February 2nd, 1902. It contains 500 pages of
medical literature, 150 full and half-page medical
blocks descriptive of the human body, and con-
tains 50 chapters upon general diseases. Snake-
bite and its cure, Burns and Scalds, Restoring
Apparently Drowned, List of Valuable Prescrip-
tions, Invalids and Treatment, Love and Mar-
riage, Electricity, Heart, Lung, Bladder and
Kidney Diseases, Micography, Rupture, etc., etc.
It has also a Medical Vocabulary of 1000 words.
It is a fine work for the Household Library. It is
only One Sliilling- in. Stamps, post free for
Australia. Send early; the orders are coming in
rapidly.
CREDENTIALS.
tion < open n fOTin o s f Deetion i hv tf.P *«£ beßt inAustralia. In the chief consulting chamber are Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Registration and Qualifica-
and America 1 Kfi B Dr. Wallace, who is registered by the Medical Boards of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, England
entertain a very high ojfinion of Dr. Wallace, both pfersonWy Bart *t Ph y« cia n to the . late Queen, who, speaking of the Physician-in-Chief, says: “I
■■ \
m.;w
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director Etectro~Medjlcal Dept.
RICHARD WALLACE, % Physician -In-Chief, j
Electro-Medical * Surgical Institute,
Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts.,
SYDNEY.


Another Bad Li
CALLED
BACK TO DUTY.
The Casa of Mr. T. GLEESON.
(For the “ Suburban Times.’*)
The destiny of great issues at stake de-
pends greatly upon the ability with which
they are handled. All audiences contain a
percentage of listeners who require plain
language to produce a comprehensive ap-
preciation of the matters under debate,
their perception not being sufficiently keen
to understand the purport of a brilliant
array of high-class words and phrases.
Learned' men sometimes experience diffi-
culty in finding words to express uncom-
mon impressions, and Mr. Thomas Gleeson,
of No. 45 Turner-Btreet, Redfern, acknow-
ledged himself similarly situated when re-
cently seen by a reporter.
“ Whenever I talk about it I can hardly
find words strong enough to express my
Surprise and gratitude,” said Mr. Gleeson.
“ I was very ill for fully six months.”
“ What was your sickness like ? ”
'* T suffered from a severe attack of indi-
goobiou, which nearly took my life. The
many complaints which arose from my dis-
ordered system made life not worth living.
To begin with I had a feeling of distention
or weight in my bowels, which were very
inactive, although I d.d everything that I
thought likely to give relief, without
success. Much annoyance was caused
through wind in the stomach, which made
a rumbling sound, and caused no end of
pain. I felt restless, and discontented with
everything. Things that used to interest
and entertain me I now looked at with dis-
like. Every little trifle that did not appear
quite favourable to me I magnified into a
great trouble, making myself feel constantly
miserable. I could not help worrying my-
self with an unnecessary watchfulness for
some evil I expected to happen, whilst at
other times I was afflicted with a great
drowsy weariness, which made me unable
to move. I also had wandering pains in
various parts of the body, whilst other pains
remained lixed for months.”
“ Where were they most severe?”
'* The agony I felt through a sharp,
pricking pain between the shoulders was
quite enough in itself; but I also had a heavy,
stifling sensation in the chest. Wearisome
aches in the head never left me, and my
limbs were as tired as if I had beon walking
without a rest for a week. Impure wind,
causing a nauseous taste in my mouth, arose
from the stomach, and my tongue was
covered with a thick coating. I changed to
a deadly colour, my lips being almost white,
and dark lines appeared under my eyes. The
act of stooping caused an unnatural rush of
blood to my head, and the giddiness which I
felt on straightening myself up nearly made
me reel to the ground. I was obliged to
hold on to something to save myself from
falling. A profuse perspiration broke out
all over me whenever I got a start, which it
took little to produce, and my heart beat
rapidly with nervous excitement when my
state of lethargy was suddenly disturbed.
It was a case of farewell to my appetite
from the start of my sickness. I had not the
least inclination to eat anything, and became
so weak that I was compelled to leave my
work. I stuck to it as long as possible, but
when I found that every ounce of flesh had
left my worn-out frame I thought my case
was too serious to continue without laying
up.”
“ Could you sleep fairly well ?”
“My mind was too troubled and irritable
to allow me any sleep, and when I got up in
the mornings I was like a dead man. I had
lost my strength and vigor, and always felt
languid and fatigued. I was so uneasy in
mind and body that I could not rest any-
where long. A sudden feeling of sleepiness
used to come on during the day, and then I
laid down, only to get up in a couple of
minutes and wander about like one demented.
Everything was a trouble to me, and my
painful afflictions became more numerous
and violent as time went on. I despaired of
a recovery, and gave way to despondency.
“ I suppose you were taking medicine 1 ”
“ Yes. I tried an endless variety of
medicines and pills, but not one of them did
me any good. The only effect they had
upon me was to Inake me sick and increase
my misery. It was this bitter experience
which drove me to desperation. My sickneßS
seemed unconquerable.”
“ How were your sufferings overcome ? ”
“ By using Clements Tonic regularly till
it cleared the disease from my system. A
member of my family had reaped inestimable
benefilsfrom Clements Tonic before I was
taken ill, and yet it did not occur to mo till
now that it was the only medicine I could
expect to cure me. I made a start with
Clements Tonic, and it picked me up won-
derfully, reaching my weak parts at once.
The knowledge that I was.rauuhy sinking
from exhaustion through"excessive pAftfAnd
loss of appetite was dispelled by a few
doses of Clements Tonic, which made me eat
without feeling any bad after-effects. Con-
stipation troubled me no more, and my head-
aches were driven away. My eyesight,
which had been very poor during my long
.sickness, was soon restored, and the melan-
choly languor gave way to renewed vivacity.
I never slept better in all my life than I did
after a dose or two of Clements Tonic, and
my limbs no longer ached with weariness in
the mornings. Once more I grew contented
and happy when I discovered that Clements
Tonic was working wonders with my debili-
tated constitution, and I was glad to bo able
to go to work with a will. Every day im-
proved my general appearance, as my colour
came back and my emaciated frame got
stouter and more robust. The unhealthy
sensitiveness of my nerves was banished by
the stimulating and restorative elfects of
Clements Tonic, which I continued to take
until it accomplished a thorough defeat of
my disease, not a single ailment of which
has troubled me since. 5
“ Are you satisfied the cure is permanent?”
“Perfectly. Nearly three years have
elapsed since my health was restored by
Clements Tonic, and I have felt grand all the
time. It is for that reason I desire to pub-
licly express my gratitude, which you are
at liberty to do in any way.you think best.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Thomas Gi.kbson, of 45 Turner street, Redfern,
Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully
read the annexed document, consisting of three
folios, and consecutively numbered from one to three,
and that it contains and is a true and faithful account!
of my i'lness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also
contains my full permission to publish in any way
my statements —which I give voluntarily, without
receiving any payment; and I make this solemn de-
claration con oienriously believing the same to be
true, and by virtue of the provisions of an Act made
and passed in the ninth Year of the reign of her pre-
sent Majestv, intituled ” An Act, for the more effectual
abolition of Oaths and Affirmations taken and made
in the various Departments of the Government of
New South Wales, and to substitute Declarations in
lieu thereof, and for the suppression ot voluntary
and Extra-judicial Oaths and Affidavits ”
Declared at Rediern, this Bth day of Ocober, one
thousand nine hundred, before me,
PETER GORNALL, J P. ,
fgu
HOTELKEEPERS!
MAKE YOUR OWN
VERATEDWATERS.
IT'HE “AUSTRAL” AERATED WATER MACHINE occu-
pies only Four Feet Square, will produce 150 Dozen per day of
Finest Waters (LEMONADE, GINGER ALE, SODAWATER, &c.)
at a Cost below Fourpence per Dozen. This machine
supersedes all others for SIMPLICITY and USEFULNESS, as it
requires no skilled labor to work it.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
ECKERSLEY & SONS,
214-21 S Queen-st., MELBOURNE.
Jtass mmJt&tM tkis paper when ordering.
'
A BEAUTIFUL SOLID GOLD RING SET WITH A CENUINE CARNET NO MONEY WANTFD.
address, fiMnlywi ibtcft m ft postal ear.', find we will send you 20 packages
? 1 r 0 XjjJj* Psffiun" in ft be* =frar of till or';on»a to vau, You (hen sell the par um; ammr
aftlfeatfl'f'aoA »?''! S 'Oll **“)• and whan sold you remit us the money \on have
i le * ,t,r Voah trouble the shove described ring, which is Stnmued
ftßg WlTHHleil iall.li field, set with, a Hemline <lnrn«t, Hemetnber you have no duty *r s«!•,e, ef Id "Ha
,^2®? U S 18 . I®* ffamiam' ape gsut übsojutely tree ef oil charges our object in matin* Vie
V sush ÜBUSilfti fine premium*, is to (fat our ver y sup-r ior perfume into fche'haiifia
reoVimTOaHi 9^^ 8 2L 9 h B “ t s ft »v«fyone Will he. g well pleased with 1 that they will gladly
W^ W 9. mw/red* ef unee ialted te»timeniais yeu simply send yfurnsme
SS!ffnSSSs6 l &5» W 1 * mM ‘ ' an * wewl “ ,s KewJS<sfe’SCw. 1 Wetat(eail ™ K
Please mention this paper whm orde'rmg:.
NATIONAL SUPPLY QQ,, 30 Pitt Bt., Byd noy, N.Q.W,
. B,A
j Y°U SHOULD ALWAYS WEAR . . .
AERTEX
CELLULAR
with the cell side next the skin in the case of
UNDERWEAR.
There Is not a more health-keeping- form of covering
for the body, and certainly none more comfortable
—even luxurious.
Besides UNDERWEAR, we Stock . . .
Pyjamas, Hosiery, etc.
And all Kinds, Shapes, Descriptions, and Colors of
Shirts
—from the White, linen-fitted Dress and Ordinary to
Fancy-pleated and Out-door Shirts for Tennis
and all uses.
Sole Agents in N.S.W.:
David Braham & Co.,
73 and 75 KING- STREET, SYDNEY,
XAMEY’S
fghfg
BIEDICAtOR.
FOR THE TREATMENT OF
Catarrh, Hay Fever,
Bronchitis, Influenza,
Catarrhal Deafness, &c.
dedicator, with complete treat-
ment, only 10s. post free.
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY,
229. 231 Collin* St. Melb.
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from I7st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney
Sending, mention this paper.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
RKCORO’S
tSSfc** cE °f F £ -
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s. or four quantities in one for 368. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope.
Agents for Australasia —PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne ; Wholesale Agents for New South Wales —
Australian Drug: Co., Ltd., O’Connell St., Sydney. All
Chemists, or Box 165, C.P.O.
]
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
Band Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are thesame
' to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free. £
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
DR. J. DOLUS BROWNE'S
rHLOROPYNE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BEONOHITIS,
DIAERHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—•
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, saya :
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
THE FINEST TONIC
FEE BRAYAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated drops.
FER BRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS
most effective In
restoring the vitality
of the blood.and ena-
blingth' constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all
cases of anaemia and
general debility.
Highly recommended
for weak, and
debilitated children.
LANCET “A. beautiful and interesting
preparation
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL. -‘‘lthas all
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
it does not blacken the teeth''
SOI n BY CHEMISTS AI L THE WORLD OVER.
WHOLESALE : Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette-
T\EAE SIR,—I have been eured ef Weakness and De
bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased bo send the meana of eure to all gufferers, I
dei this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever, Send addressed envelope to Mr, ROBERT
E, PARKHURBT, Ntt-gtreet, Sydney,
GOUT
PILLS.
FOR GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA
LUMBAGO^
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Pbout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
“Don’t shout”
%
1
m
1 hear yon. 1 can hear now
as well as anybody.
•■•How?’ Oh. some-
thing new —The Wilson.'
Common-sense Ear-\>
Drum. I've a pair in my
ears now. you can’t see them
-they're invisible. I wouldn't
know I bad them in myself.
k only that I hear all right.”
The Wilson Ear-Drum is
really a substitute for the
parts of the
natural ear. Has no
wire. Invisible, easy to ad
just, comfortable. Totally
different from any other de-
[vice Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request 1
■». CIIAtWfBS, 229-231 Collins Si., HeIP.J
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
ft
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole Agents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English
American and made to order
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &o.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, dec.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers
281 CEORCE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
««
The “Quaker” Turkish
& Vapor Bath Cabinet.
All who suffer from Rheumatism,
Liver, Kidney or Bladder trouhles,
Neuralgia, Eczema, Night Sweats,
&c., should have one of these
Cabinets. Price 30/-
Head and Face Steamer, 4/-
Can be forwarded to any address.
«l. CHALMERS, Agent,
229 Collins St., Melbourne
A Wonderful power 1* placed at your disposal in Hypnotism
the power to control others —to relieve disease—to make
friends—to make money—and gratify your ambition. Ton may
become a commanding master of humanity. In fact, there i«
so much that is wonderful to tell you about it that I have
written a book for that purpose.
By a knowledge of Hypnotism, bad
habits, nervous diseases, bad disposi-
tions, sleeplessness and other afflictions
may b« cured —often in a single treat-
ment'. Backward or ungovernable
children show marvellous improve-
ment under hypnotic treatment at the
hands of their parents or Others.
I have taught thousands of hypno-
tists in America. Hundreds of de-
lighted students in Australia already.
I reach them through my book. The
system is very simple. There is no
reason why you should not become
as good a Hypnotist as I am.
Satisfaction guaranteed.
Send address in full. You will then
receive the “ KEY TO HYPNOTISM. ”
posted in a plain cover. Absolutely
free.
i
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
THE GREATEST HYPNOTIST OF THE OENTTJRY,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Of?. LANGSTON'S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
A Tested and infallible remedy,
Within the reach of all, can be given SECRETLY.
NO FAILURES. CURES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Home Treatment without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections. Call or write for treatise, posted,
two stamps. Prepared only at the Laboratory of
SURGEON LANGSTON
M.R.C.S. Eng.,
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
NASAL POLYPUS
and Similar Growths in the Nasal
and Post-Nasal Passages ...
CURED WITHOUT OPERATION.
gggT° Hundreds of cases successfully treated. Write for
particulars to . . .
NEWHAM WATERWORTH,
Edward-st., Brisbane, Queensland,
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG, X
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Eight Different
comprising Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Casket (a good
trick), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Coin
and Card Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard
Fish (gives definition of your character), That Wonderful
Cinematograph or Book of Living Pictures, Mafeking
Grub (or nerve-strengthener), That side-splitting Look
and Laugh Glass, and. last of all, The Spider and the Fly
(an’ Ingenious mechanical toy). Instructions enclosed.
This splendid Paoket posted to any address in A us*
tralia Free on receipt of 2s. od.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
X7lO George-strsst, SYDNEY,
a. L, mrronrasow, H«mcwr.


m
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments may be
secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards.
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted on applica-
on to The Manager.
LUCKY
INTAGLIO
PEN PANTS.
Jewellers & Opticians
so King ST,S ydney.
10/6
10/6
j
Finely Carved
Representation of
Various Planets,
Real Onyx,
Gold-Mounted,
10/6.
Send for our Catalogue. Admirably adapted
for
All Goods Post Free. Sealing Purposes.
fjh
I Solid Gold EMU and KANGAROO CHARMS,
| extra heavy, 12/6 each ;
► with Pin and Chain, 2/6 extra.
)
T
fdjh
Solid Gold Boomerang <
Charm, 4/-: set with ,
Opal or Gem, 6/6. <
Gold Pipe Charms,
Perfect Models, 6/6.
With Pin & Chain, 9/-
Tails. Plaits,
try orders.
FRINGES, Best Natural Curly Hair, 3/6, 5/6,
7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each. TAILS' and PLAITS,
20in. long, 5/6, ; Extra Thick, 7/6 ; 24in.,
10/6 ; Extra Thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings Worked Up, 2/6 per oz.
Don’t be misled. Our Plaits and Tails are
twice as thick as sold elsewhere at same
price. Send Color of Hair. “ Only ONE
Address”:— W. H. WIGZELL,
110 WILLIAM-ST., Corner of Palmer-st.,
Sydney. Cable trams will stop at door. All
work guaranteed Illustrated catalogue
post free. Prompt attention given to coun-
Wigs made on shortest notice.
RHEUMALGIA
rphe new cure for Rheumatism, Lumbago, Gout, Sciatica,
x Neuralgia, and similar ailments
IS
a lotion compounded from herbs
PURELY AUSTRALIAN.
3S. 6d. POST FREE.
Rheumalgia Remedy Co., Bathurst,
Wholesale depot for N.S.W. and Q.
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
Hennessy’s
One Star
and
Three Star
Brandy
has
the
Largest Sale
in
the World.
THE
OLD BATTLE AXE BRAND.
*1*
a
fTW
Ml
«5
KWff
nm
IMS.
IfMM
nm,
m,
Insis
t
AARON’S
Exchange Hotel Co.,
SYDNEY.
The system of paying for Room only and
Meals as required is adopted here.
£3 3s. per Week
9s. per Day
GORDON MARE, Secretary.
W. W. AIKEN, Manager,
28 Years in the Establishment.
A ROYAL LIQUEUR.
PETER. F. HEERING, Copenhagen,
CHERRY BRANDY
The King of England; The Royal Danish and Imperial Russian Courts.
SWIFT AND COMPANY, 7 Spring Street, Sydney, N.S.W., General Agents.
fdhj
£9 lOs.
Tel., 2710 Red-fern
This Special No. 3 Sulky
with Wing- Boards well
adapted for country roads
and hard usage. Will give
univeral satisfaction.
Pittman’s Commonwealth
Steam Coach Works
176 and 178 Morehead St., Redfern.
THE THREE CAUSES:
BECAUSE Pittman’s Vehicles are articles of real worth
and true merit.
BECAUSE they are always in ready demand.
BECAUSE when their superior qualities have once been
demonstrated, you will have no other
than Pittman’s Vehicles.
tpr- Send for Illustrated Catalogue and Price List
Full Description & Prices of Vehicles free on application
MACHINERY
MERCHANTS.
WHOLESALE IRONMONGERS,
And Importers of
Engines, Boilers, Pumps, Wood-
working Machines, Engineers’
Supplies, Blacksmith and
Coachbuilders’ Requisites, Pipes
and Fittings, Boiler Tubes, Gun
Metal and Brassware for Steam
and Water, Household and
Builders’ Ironmongery, Agri-
cultural Implements, Horse
Cears, Chaff Cutters, &c.
ißiminu
BRISBANE
m
OFJC/
Qui
t*l
m
North Queensland Warehouse:
Stanley & Sturt Sts., Townsville.
Also at
New Broad St. House, London, E.C.
AGENTS FOR
ROBEY & CO., Portable Steam
Engines.
W. B. HAIGH & CO., Sawmill
Machinery.
GWYNNE’S Centrifugal Pumps.
PEARN’S Manchester Steam
Pumps.
DUPLEX Steam Pumps.
SCOTT’S Steel Mining Ropes.
FRANK VIAL & SON Leather
Belting.
WAUKEGAN Barb Wire.
PLANET JR. Implements.
AER MOTOR Windmills.
KEROSENE OIL ENGINES.
‘SHSHOKS
omd oj. jxrooa v
WILLS’S
World
Renowned
CAPSTAN
Is now supplied IN PLUG FORM in addition to Gut.
TRY IT!
Obtainable at all leading Tobacconists and Storekeepers.
TRY IT!


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 23.—N0. 1152.
SATURDAY, MARCH 15, 1002,
Prior 6n.
PROVIDENCE AT ITS TRICKS AGAIN.
WABBACK FARMER : “BELIEVE NOTHING TILL YOU ACTUALLY SEE THE WATER. IT MAY BE A HOAX TO KEEP US ON THE LAND.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
11 Australia, for the AustraliansA*
Printed and Publisher] by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBER*
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, 8. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
€l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of lid. postage, the subscription
to Tiib ' Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
anmim, payable in advance.
To ease of in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —l Id. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition o/Tiie Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—ivith postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed jo J F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paver are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs In HlacJe and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest, and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MB.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
. Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street & Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco.— L. E. Lee, Palace Hotel.
South Africa. — It. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. E. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Capetown. Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
TTie^zzllelzvi.
SATURDAY, MARCH 15, 1902.
The Federal Loan.
The announcement that the Federal Govern-
ment proposes to float a loan is not a matter
of surprise. Its loans will probably become,
in course of time, as regular as those of the
State Governments, and where there used to
be six great borrowers in the Commonwealth
there will now be seven—until the Northern
Territory is organised as a separate item of
the Union, and then there will be eight.
The proposed Federal loan is almost wholly
for unproductive works. A part of it is for
fortifications and defence works, which will
probably be obsolete in a few years through
the constant changes in the art of slaying
our fellow-creature. A good deal more
is for guns which will certainly be
obsolete in a few years, or else worn
out. The rest is for various purposes—
replacing with borrowed money worn-out or
obsolescent telegraphic apparatus, which was
originally purchased with borrowed money,
and the like. Treasurer Turner, who is a
desperately cautious man, as Australian
Treasurers go, though in England he would
be regarded as a public financier of a most
reckless order, proposes to take strong
measures—as strong measures are under-
stood in Australia—to prevent the Federal
debt degenerating into a perpetual*burden.
Each loan is to have a sinking fund of 1 per
cent, attached to it, which sinking fund
ought to be sufficient, at compound interest,
to extinguish the liability in 47 years—
though the guns and other trash bought
with the loan money will mostly last
about half that time. Of course, when
the sinking-fund has grown to a large
enough figure, some impecunious Treas-
urer will, persuade Parliament to author-
ise its seizure. If this can’t be done
directly it will be done indirectly, as is the
case in Maoriland, where, for every £lOO,OOO
that is paid into the sinking fund to comply
with the law, £lOO,OOO is borrowed and put
into the revenue. Or it will happen as in
N.S. W., where £150,000 is paid off the old
deficit every year, and about an equal sum
added to the new deficit. There are various
sinking funds in the Commonwealth already,
and the best of them only amounts to a
pitiable joke.
* * • *
Assuming that the Federal loans average
£500,000 a year (they will probably amount
to much more than that, but whatever they
average the moral lesson is the same), it is
worth while considering how even Treasurer
Turner s careful policy will pan out.
Assuming that no Treasurer lays a sacrilegi-
ous hand on the sinking funds, which is
almost beyond belief, the first loan will be
wholly fpaid ofi at the end of 47 years,
so that date may be taken as a con-
venient stopping place at which to review
the situation. If the Federal Government
has great good fortune it may float its 3 per
cent, loans at a small discount—it may per-
haps raise £500,000 by giving its lOU for
£525,000. It isn’t likely to get much better
terms than these as things go nowadays, and
it may get worse. There will probably also
be about 10s. per cent, for expenses and cost
of management—that is to say, if the loans
are all floated locally—which may, or may
not, be covered by the margin suggested
above. If the Federal Legislature ever
begins to borrow large sums, and goes to the
English market for them, the expenses will
be much heavier, but The Bulletin here
gives it the benefit of the doubt. Then, at
the end of 47 years, when, barring accidents,
the first loan will be repaid, the account will
stand something like this :
After 47 Years Borrowing : Average Loans £500,000 a
Year at 3 per cent.
Paid in Interest (about) £16,920,000
„ Sinking Funds (about) 5,640,000
~ Discount and Expenses (about) .. 1,175,000
Debt still owing over and above Sinking
Funds (about) 11,750,000
£35,485,000
* * * *
And against this, if the Federal Govern-
ment borrowed nothing at all, and instead
raises £500,000 a year for its public works
policy by taxation, the exact amount the
people of the Commonwealth would have to
pay in the above period of 47 years would be
£23,500,000. The Commonwealth would
save, roughly speaking, £12,000,000 in 47
years, or an average of £250,000 a year, by
not borrowing. The borrowing policy costs,
on a very low average, £750,000 a year ; the
non-borrowing or self-reliant policy, £500,000
a year. Even if no allowance is made for the
debt that will exist at the end of the 47 vears
and for the burden of about £920,000 in in-
terest and sinking fund (3 per cent, interest
and 1 per cent, sinking fund on a gross debt
of about £23,000,000) which will remain to be
met every year thereafter, for as many years
or centuries as this rate of borrowing is
maintained—even if this huge load is not
reckoned, the actual outgoings of the first 47
years of the Federal borrowing policy will be
as heavy as if the whole trouble had been
met out of taxation. And The Bulletin
asks once more : What use or joy or
profit is there in the whole miserable busi-
ness ? There will be no more satisfaction,
no more public works, no direct or indirect
profit whatever.
* * • «
What the politicians of this country re-
gard as the advantage of the great loan
idea is this, and this only : If the
Federal Government borrows £500,000 a
year for public works instead of raising
£500,000 a year by taxation, it will make
the burden lighter for the first 20 or 25
years. After that it will be much heavier,
and will remain so for ever. It is a poor,
wretched device, worthy of a crowd of
cowardly and unfeeling politicians, backed
by a cowardly, or unfeeling, or unthinking
community, to leave the sons and daughters
that come after us to shoulder the burden.
The consistent policy of the present genera-
tion of Australians is to sell the public
lands, and exhaust the gold deposits, and
cut down the forests, and spend the pro-
ceeds of all these ; and to leave to its chil-
dren an exhausted land and the bill for all
the roads, the worn-out public buildings, the
unprofitable railways, and for many other
things even less tangible. In many cases,
however, the old Australian who did his
share of these things lived long enough to
experience, in his old age, some of the deso-
lation that his own policy had brought about,
and no one deserved it more.
* * * f
There is no reason, save cowardice and
heartlessness and incompetence, why the
Federal Parliament should resort to a loan
policy. The customary excuse that it is
hampered and restricted by the Braddon
clause of the Federal Constitution, under
which three-fourths of the customs and
excise revenue must, for a certain number of
years, be returned to the State Treasuries,
has often been made, and by persons in high
political station, but, whoever makes it, it is
none the less a lie. If there were no Braddon
clause, the Federal Government could cer-
tainly use more of the tariff revenue for its
own purposes, but, if it applied the tariff
revenue to public works purposes, the
State would have to levy more direct
taxation to fill the gap and meet the interest
on their liabilities. The Federal Govern-
ment could levy that direct taxation just
as well itself, and thereby get the money for
its public works, and the community would
pay no more. The only difference is that
while there is a Braddon clause the Federal
Government, if it wants more revenue than
its share of the customs and excise affords it,
must take the responsibility of raising that
revenue itself. Supposing there were no
Braddon clause it could put the responsi-
bility on to the State Governments, which
would be an easy and, at the same time, a
cowardly and shufflesome thing to do. And
yet it is questionable if the Federal Govern-
ment would have even the courage to do
that easy shuffle. For this year, at all
events, the Braddon clause isn’t in the
way. The £500,000 or so which is wanted
this year could be taken out of revenue, and
yet the Federal Government would be spend-
ing a smaller proportion of the tariff revenue
than the Tasmanian ex-Premier’s so-called
Blot permits. If the Federal Government
hasn’t the courage to use the powers it
already possesses, then there is very little to
be gained by giving it larger powers.
* * • •
Australia is full of gassy politicians who
profess to have a patriotic and far-sighted
eye to the future of the Commonwealth and
the Empire, and to be willing to make
sacrifices for the sake of that future. They
eventuate in speeches at agricultural shows,
where the bloated cow and the dropsical
pumpkin are on view, and they don’t even
pay their own expenses in getting there, or
for their own victuals when they are there.
They transpire at banquets when the con-
tingent— whose pay is added to the floating
debt—is going away ; or at the opening of
the hopelessly unpayable railroad, the bill
for which is left for posterity to
liquidate. But among the whole gang
there appears to be not one of any
prominence who cares a straw for the
country’s future. There hardly appears to
be one who cares even for the future of his
own children to an extent which will lead
him to propose carrying his own fair share
of the national burdens and trying to make
Australia a country which will be as good for
them to live in as it was for himself. The
beginning and middle and end of Australian
statesmanship is to pass the load on to the
infant. Possibly the infant will decline to
pay, but that doesn’t make the present gang
of Bartons, Kingstons, Reids, Turners,
Philps, Peacocks, Jenkinses, Forrests,
Sees and all their kind any the less a dis-
grace to their country, and to their alleged
intelligence and their bogus patriotism.
Australia has already had one warning. It
is the only civilised country on earth which
is dotted over with notoriously insolvent
banks that are living on the forbearance of
their creditors, and it smells badly enough
already in the world's atmosphere without
worse things happening to it. A while
later, if the present order of statesman-
ship continues, the Australian bubble will
burst with a bad perfume, and Australia will
wake up to a knowledge that the habit of
living on loans is only an unhealthy and
deceptive kind of disease ; and in the waking
process the banks which went in 1893 will go
all over again ; and the ones which didn’t go
then will also go ; and even the great A.M.P.
Society will totter on its basis amid the
slump in the value of its mortgages, and the
old age pensions will stop, and O’Sullivan,
if he is still about, will apply vainly at the
Labor Bureau for a job of sand-shifting, and
will be hooted by the other sand shifters there
assembled.
Under New Conditions.
Ever since the days when Cromwell’s Navigation
Laws and Blake’s naval victories shattered the
Butch maritime supremacy, with a few short
interruptions, Britain’s control of sea-power has
made her practically the world’s arbiter. Which
ever scale she threw her weight into quickly made
the other kick the beam, for she could strike
where she chose, where the enemy was weakest,
and with a comparatively small force keep a whole
nation underarms. To-day, even after 50 years
of Ereetrade and unrestricted competition have
sapped her energy and killed off the sturdy agri-
cultural population which, on land and sea,
stamped flat everything that stood up against it,
it is an open question if a combination of the
next two greatest naval powers could smash
the heirs of the old sea-kings. But the conditions
are changing. The decisive factor of the 20th
century promises to be Control of Railroad power.
* * * *
The world resounds with the clang of railroad
construction. The Russians are just completing
their Trans-Siberian railway— two ribbons of steel
4525 miles long, across which the Czar can shake
his rifle in the face of all Asia. Rhodes’ vaster
scheme of the Cairo to Cape line, 1100 miles longer
than even the gigantic Siberian road, is nearly
half completed. The Cairo-Khartoum section of
1341 miles is now working, and in the south the
Cape-Buluwayo section has traversed 1373 miles,
and the intermediate gap of 2950 miles presents
less engineering difficulties than the two com-
pleted sections. A branch of what will eventually
be the great trunk line has been constructed from
Mombassa, on the east coast of Africa, to Kampala
in Uganda—the first cross-bar of the gridiron on
which Darkest Africa is to be cooked for the
benefit of civilisation. In Asia, the Germans
have in hand a line from Scutari and Smyrna which,
when completed, will run down the valley of
Mesopotamia, past the ruins of Babylon, have
a refreshment-room at Bagdad, the city of the
Caliphs, and end somewhere on the Persian Gulf.
» * * *
But vaster projects are looming ahead. The
tobacco-stained hand of the all-fired Yankee is
reaching out over South America for what he calls
the “Pan-American Railroad”—a vast concern
which is to be the father of all railroads, and
which, when completed from New York to Buenos
Ayres, will be 10,220 miles long. The trial sur-
veys have already been made at the expense of the
United States out of that tremendous annual sur-
plus, and the report is favorable. Although the
engineering difficulties are enormous, they are not
as great as those which have already been over-
come on the Mexican plateau. At present
unbroken lines run from New York to Oajaca, in
Mexico, 3277 miles, and only 461 miles additional
remain between the terminus and the Mexican
southern border. In Central America there are
210 miles of lines which can be utilised, and 820
miles, to be built, will carry the line over the
Isthmus of Panama into the United States of
Colombia. Colombia being innocent of railways,
1354 miles will require to be built to Ecuador,
whence 658 more will bring it to Peru. The land
of the Incas has 151 miles of line which can he
utilised, but 1633 miles must be built. Then the
railway builders will strike 587 miles across Bolivia,
of which only 195 miles are already built. From
the Bolivian border 125 additional miles will con-
nect the great road with the Argentine north-west
terminus at Jujuy, whence lines already run to
Buenos Ayres on the Atlantio side.
* * * *
When this line is completed the United States
will have a practical monopoly of the back-door
trade of seven-eighths of South America. Owing
to the difficulties of transport the practically in-
exhaustible supplies of raw material of every sort
in the valleys of the Orinoco, the Amazon and
the Paraguay, have never been put on the world’s
markets. If the U.S. can build its record rail-
way it will flood these regions with its manu-
factures, and take from them in return cheap raw
tnaterial. A great Yankee mining population
will probably flow in, and what with one influence
and another, the South Americas will be merely a
United States plantation. In the end the gentle-
man with the twang and the star-spangled banner
of Liberty and Lucre will probably own South
America—if that wonderful railway is built.
* * * *
A few weeks ago it was cabled that American
capitalists were making heavy purchases of
Canadian Pacific stock in order to get control of
the Canadian railways. Now comes further news
that the Russians are surveying a route from the
Siberian railway to the Straits of Behring, and it
is seriously proposed to join the Asiatic and
American railway systems by either a viaduct
oyer, or a tunnel under the Behring Strait. The
distance is 48 miles, but right in the middle is an
island some 12 miles across. Recent soundings
have proved that nowhere is the strait more than
40 feet deep, with a hard, firm, level rock bottom.
Being so shallow there are no icebergs of any size,
and engineers declare that a viaduct from both
sides, meeting on the island in the centre, is a com-
paratively easy matter. If this is accomplished
the Argentine will be able to take his first-class
railway ticket at Buenos Ayres for Paris or Cape-
town, and get there without stepping on the deck
of a steamer, for the scheme includes the tunnel-
ling of the Straits of Gibraltar so as to connect
Europe with a line which a British, French and
American syndicate is proposing to build
across northern Africa to connect with
the Cape to Cairo railway. On this line
refreshments will doubtless be procurable at
Timbuctoo. When these lines are completed the
control of sea-power will slump considerably in
value. Of course, the time must come when the
British possessions in Asia and Africa will be
assailable from Europe by land, and the control
of the sea will no longer be a guarantee of their
safety. The expansion of railways made that
inevitable. But the time appeared an indefinite
distance away. The Yankee, in his haste and his
billions of dollars, reckons that it will come early
this century.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Invariable Story.
The Newcastle (N.S.W.) Herald with an air of
pained surprise (March 1):
The first official inspection of portions of the city by
members of the Borough Council has resulted in the dis-
closure of a shocking state of affairs. Practically in the
heart of the city there exists a set of buildings so inexpres-
sibly foul and insanitary that the visitors there and then
came to the conclusion that their immediate demolition
was necessary. The account given elsewhere by our
special reporter is sufficient to show that the Borough
Council is one of the first offenders against the sanitary
laws which it is its duty to enforce. The indictment
which the municipality has prepared against itself is
heightened by the fact that reports on the insanitary con-
dition of certain of its revenue-producing properties have
been brought before it, and that it has taken no action in
the matter. The civic inspection has not yet concluded,
and it is to be feared that before it is at an end, further
horrifying disclosures of a similar kind may be made, ft
is earnestly to be hoped that the council will put an end
once and for ever to this shameful evil.
Whenever a plague scare, or any other disease
scare arises, and people go out to inspect things
in an Australian city, there is ever the same
invariable story of filth. And there is always a
fair chance that the Borough Council is found
to be well up in the running for first prize
for shocking disregard of the sanitary laws,
to enforce which should be its main object
in life. The Borough Council whose property
isn’t dirty is generally the hard-up one, which has
no property. From the study of a multitude of
facts, The Bulletin is forced to the conclusion
that the alderman, as a class, is not a wildly clean
individual, and that if he has a serious compe-
titor in dirtiness it is the Government depart-
mental officer, as evidenced by the state of
Sydney General Post Office and the complaints
about the neglected condition of the resumed area
of Sydney. By way of initiating a reform this
paper proposes that each State should exchange
its State Governor, who is really superfluous now,
for a scientific Sanitary Commissioner at the same
salary, with extensive powers to keep local bodies
up to the mark in sanitary matters The Sanitary
Commissioner could open the State Parliament,
assent to Acts of Parliament, and summon R. D.
Meagher to form a Ministry in his spare time,
so these gubernatorial duties need not be ne-
glected. And if the maintenance of the British
connection is essential he could be appointed by
the authorities in London—so that the silken
bonds might be disinfected as well as strengthened.
Wanted: A Department of Sweeps.
A Tasmanian toiler writes his opinions on a
matter of Commonwealth concern :—-
The chief objection to “ Tattehsall’s ” establishment,
apart from the “moral” one urged by the parsons, is,
first, that it is a gambling machine, and therefore, econo-
mically considered, a mere waste. The latter doesn’t
matter much—one method more or less of wasting sub-
stance can hardly affect a society wherein five-sixths of
the population’s working time is already wasted in com-
petition. But a private monopoly of any sort is always a
menace to the community, and the smaller the com-
munity the greater the menace. Already “ Tatter,sail ”
practically bosses the island State ; his “ pull” in politics
is acknowledged on all hands, and his “ pull ” over
the newspapers is undisputed. Distribution of favors
in the shape of donations to charities, fancy billets
to “well-connected” young Tassies, complimentary
tickets to pressmen, politicians, and other persons of
influence in the island, naturally increases the number of'
“barrackers” for the institution. Also, Adams has
recently (with a possible eye to the Tassies’ traditional
worship of the landholder) become a large owner of
Hobart property. It is not too much to say that if
“ Tattkrsall” were allowed undisputed possession of his
monopoly for twenty years longer the descendants of
George Adams would practically own the whole Flyspeck.
As a protected industry “ Tattersall’s ” takes first place


in the Commonwealth. Competitors are absolutely
barred. But, unlike other protected industries, it cannot
possibly either teach the young a useful trade, develop
the natural resources of fee country, reduce imports,
increase exports, or help in paying off the country s
liabilities. It cannot enrich the community in any
way, but must impoverish it, to at least the extent of
the cost of feeding George Adams and his assistants.
Regarded as an amusement “ Tattersall’s” gambling
school is possibly as legitimate as a theatre or a circus, or
any other place of worship, and, as such, has an equal
right to conduct business without hindrance. But there
is no more justification for giving it a monopoly of the
gambling business than there would be for granting any
one parson the monopoly of the soul-saving business and
threatening to gaol any other person who dared to wave
a collection-plate in public or in private. The average
citizen does not object to consultations anymore than he
objects to tote betting, but he has a decided objection to
being compelled to always lose his money in the same
tote-shop; he wants to have the opportunity of
going broke in any way he chooses, and argues
that no Government ever had the remotest right
to deprive him of whatever variety there may be
in the roads to ruin. Of course, the argument isn t
particularly sound from a sociological standpoint, but
that doesn’t matter ; it is just about how the average
man, ?who isn’t a student of sociology, feels about it,
and, in the main, the average citizen is right enough.
The whole duty of the State is to see that the gambling is
done decently and in order, and that reasonable facilities
are provided to prevent overcrowding on the road to
ruin. The best way to do it is to place the whole “ con-
sultation” business directly under the control of the
State. Absolute freetrade in gambling is, like absolute
freetrade in anything else, obviously undesirable, if not
more so. If there has to be a monopoly in the business
at all it should be owned and controlled by the Common-
wealth. If Australia has to pay for running its “ two-
up” school it may just as well pay itself as “ Tatter-
SALL.” It isn’t good enough for a community to permit
any individual to coin money out of either its vices or its
virtues. “Tattersall” may build pubs, out of his pro-
fits, but is not likely to build hospitals or establish old-age
pensions. If the Commonwealth had the profits it could
do both.
Another Phase of Cohentingenting.
A last week’s cablegram :
Mr. Brodrick (Secretary for War) hopes that colonial
statesmen will be willing to undertake responsibilities,
rendering all the Imperial forces available for a war
involving the interests of the whole Empire.
From a strictly British point of view the Secretary
of War is, of course, quite right. From an Aus-
tralian point of view there are doubts and ques-
tions and side issues. Who is to decide what kind
of war “involves the interests of the Empire?”
If the British authorities make the war, or adopt
the policy which leads up to the war, and simply
report to “the colonies” that it is a war
“involving the interests of the Empire,” and
“the colonies” have to take their word for
it and supply all their available troops, and
Britain gets the conquered territory, theu
“the colonies” might as well give up their
self-governing rights bodily. At present
things have not quite reached this stage.
Certainly Australian politicians had no share in
bringing about the present South African war.
They did not cheat the Dutch colonists out of the
compensation voted by Parliament when slavery
was abolished, which compensation was paid in
all other parts of the Empire. They did not steal
Natal from the Boers in time of peace, or take the
Diamond Fields from them in time of peace, or
arm the Zulus against them, or offer a reward for
the capture of the President who objected to the
Natal steal, or declare their country annexed in
the ’4o’s, or cheat the Transvaalers out of their
promised right to a local Parliament when their
country was really annexed in the ’7o’s, or pro-
hibit them having a seaport, so that their foreign
commerce must go mostly through British
territory and be taxed en route, or make
the demand that the government of the Transvaal
should be practically handed over to the foreign
adventurers at Johannesburg in the ’9o’s. All this
long accumulation of insults, injuries, and hatreds
was built up by British statesmen, and when
war came of it Au tralia went into that purely
local war as one “involving the interests of the
Empire.” But Australia, at all events, went into
it voluntarily. Secretary for War Brodrick
now proposes that some kind of permanent
arrangement shall be made by which Australia
will always go into such wars, voluntarily or not.
Its forces are just to be “available,” whereby it
will get down to the level of the Hindu, who also
has no voice in m king or unmaking the Empire’s
wars, but whose forces are also available. And
here the rock on which the ill-jointed British
Empire must needs ultimately split, if the Empire
doesn’t reorganise, comes fairly in sight. Unless
a workable scheme of Imperial Federation is
devised “ the colonies ” can’t have any voice in
making the Empire’s wars, despite the fact that
they are the biggest part of the Empire in size,
and will yet be the biggest in white popula-
tion also. A workable scheme of Imperial r edera-
tion can’t be devised without abolishing the
hereditary House of Lords —to which Britain
clings with profound reverence; without drawing
a definite color line against the huge black
majority which can’t be allowed to boss the white
minority, yet which must boss the white minority
if representation in a really Imperial Parliament
goes by population; and without facing the fact
that the Imperial capital must needs shift some
day when the centre of population shifts -to
Australia or Canada or some other place, and the
local affairs of the dependency of England be at-
tended to by a Governor sent over from Ottawa or
Bombala. And all these are great difficulties—
the nigger majority probably the greatest of the
lot. So Britain doesn’t see its way to give the
colonies’’any control of the empire’s policy, yet
it wants them to undertake that they will tight
for the empire’s policy every time. The empire
has a war on about once a year ; it had fully 50
in Victoria’s reign alone—and that is calculated
to make “the colonies” tired. _ One war, let alone
fifty, has almost made them tired. Then, if an
agreement is arrived at, as suggested, by which
“the colonies” must supply forces whenever
called upon, the politician of the day will gam no
credit, no glory, no title, no bang of drums and
crash of trumpets by supplying these forces, and
that will make him tired. He will just-be doing
a dreary, stodgy, dusty, everyday duty. Probably
he won’t even get the order for so much human
meat; if there is a permanent arrangement, then
the local commander will simply receive instruc-
tions to put the meat on board, as per usual, and
send it along in the ordinary way. With the
contingent business always going on, and the
limelight always turned off, and the bill always
coming in, and all the glory of “ standing by the
Empire ” reduced to the level of the weekly
washing-day, things will be sadly different. And
when things grow too different -then the
differentness of things leads to differences.
■ 4
Melbourne’s “ Tip.”
Melbourne continues to prepare a, royal re-
ception for the bubonic rat. Its City Council
last year started with a deficit of £20,000.
With much reluctance it raised the very moderate
city rate of Is. in the pound up to Is. 4d. This
enabled it to reduce the deficit to £10,487. But
now with plague knocking at the door it reverts
to the old rate of Is. and trusts to “economies” to
come out square. The said economies mainly
depend on letting filth accumulate. In every
ward of the city the maintenance men have been
reduced from twelve to three, the street watermen
from seven to three —30 men being suddenly
sacked in one act —while 42 of the 47 hands at the
quarries have been given the order of the bag.
When the plague threatened to visit Melbourne a
couple of years ago the Council bought a garbage-
destructor—only a small affair, but it, at least,
destroyed the worst of the abominations. But
the destructor cost a few pounds to work, so
it was decided that the destructor fires must
go out and the rubbish again go to. the tip.
This tip is several acres in extent, and is a fetid
mass of corruption—of ancient bananas, out-of-
date fish, and diseased rats. A better breeding
ground for disease germs couldn’t be imagined.
But with the fear of Plague before it Melbourne
Council decided to continue the tip and not set the
destructor going again. The fear of a higher city
rate (which would affect the rich) was greater than
the dread of disease (which would mostly affect
the poor). One or two councillors urged the
re-starting of the destructor, but they were
silenced by such as Cr. Strong and Alderman
Pigdon (suggestive name). Also Mayor Sam
Gillott bluntly told the Council that “unless
they were prepared to strike a higher rate than Is.
in |the £ the present system of garbage-disposal
would have to be adhered to,” and that settled it!
It always does settle it: the aversion of any
Australian public body to paying its way honestly
positively amounts to a disease.
♦
The Hare-Somebody Voting Muddle.
That huge and cumbrous foolishness, the Federal
Electoral Bill, with its HARE-Somebody system of
voting, its contingent vote, its first, second, third,
fourth, and 127th preferences of candidates, its
quota, its “Droop quota,” its arrangement for the
transfer of parcels and sub-parcels of votes, its ten
or more countings of the vote, its provision for the
adequate or inadequate or intoxicated representa-
tion of minorities, its obscurity, frills, and general
exasperation, appears to be practically bogged in
the Commonwealth Parliament. And it certainly
deserves to be bogged. The worst misery about
the scheme, and it is full of miseries, is its utter
futility. Tasmania has a law of this kind, and it
tried the same on the federated dog at the elec-
tion of Senators. The result was worth noting.
The vote had to be counted 14 times before the
contract was finished, and far into the night
candle-grease was dropping on the heads of weary
returning officers, as they pursued the elusive
quota to its lair. There were 113 parcels of con-
tingent votes transferred. Defeated candidates
“cut out” at different stages, as if they were
wool-sheds, and there were “surpluses”—as if
the Treasurer had at last got the accounts to
square. And in the end the whole 15 candidates
stood in exactly the same order as if the first vote
only had been counted, and there had been no
contingent vote whatsoever; and the same six
were elected as would have been elected
if the first vote only had been counted;
and all the rest was wasted time and ink.
The same result crops up with unvarying
regularity at Tasmania’s State elections. The
ordinary mode of election often leads to the return
of a member who represents nothinglike a majority
of the votes polled, and the only advantage gained
by the HARE-Somebody system is that, after
counting the votes 14 times, the public is left in
the same hole as at first. Tasmania, when it had
gone through all its trouble, had only the same old
Dobson to show for it that it would have had in
any case. If the old way of voting failed to
adequately represent the minority or the majority,
the HARE-Somebody method failed in exactly the
same way and the same place, and stubbed its toe
on the same root, and it was all vanity and com-
plication of spirit.
♦
The Failure to Reform James.
The necessity for prison reform obtrudes itself
from the story of James Cathcart, an “old
offender,” aged 32, whowas lately sentenced to three
months’ imprisonment by the Ballarat East (Vic.)
magistrates. Cathcart got into trouble this time
for the indiscretion of bashing his niece’s coun-
tenance when she protested against his brutal ill-
usage of her aunt. It was his 19th conviction.
One of his previous offences was the manslaughter
of a Chow, for which he received six years hard
labor. And Cathcart is now an able-bodied
blackguard of 32 ! The Law has been treating
him for many years for his criminality, and will
no doubt resume the treatment soon after he
regains his liberty to get drunk. The gaol is the
place where Cathoart goes into physical and
moral training for further deeds of violence.
His country is not proud of Cathcart.
Nevertheless the Government takes him in hand at
every possible opportunity, and makes him fit and
eager for the fray. The “ reforming ” influence of
gaol is a confessed failure in James Cathcart’s
case, yet every time he is presented at Court
for another sentence the police quote a long list of
failures to reform him as a reason why the next
period of failure should be as long as the Bench
can make it. And the dull, lumbering Law, whilst
acting on this suggestion, cheerfully goes on to
admit that it is bad in principle. Perhaps the
very next case to be tried is a First Offender
whose offence doesn’t come under the heading of
“serious.” Then the evil tendencies of the gaol
where Cathcart is being reformed are advanced
as reasons why the novice prisoner should not be
sent there. The habitual offender is inferentially
quoted as proof that imprisonment creates crime.
And the Law admits the awful failure of its prison
system by releasing the F.O. on his own recog-
nizances or some similar futile substance.
4
Political Profligates.
The combined agitation of the Freetrade and
Protectionist daily newspapers in Australia has
resulted in the Federal Parliament removing the
small duty of 10 per cent, on printing paper.
Both classes of papers showed a political profli-
gacy, naked and unashamed, during the agitation.
The Freetrade newspapers have been crying out
for a tariff which would raise revenue by 10 or 15
per cent, ad valorem duties and avoid heavy im-
posts on the food and clothing of the poor. The
paper duty was a light one, and promised a good
revenue, drawn from a class of the community
exceptionally well able to pay; and so it
fulfilled all the requirements of the Freetrade
papers’ demand; but, by open and secret
effort, they united to down it, because it
touched the pockets of their proprietaries. The
Protectionist daily papers joined in the agitation
against the duty from equally sordid motives.
Printing paper is now made almost wholly from
pine wood, of which there is no great supply in
Australia, therefore it is claimed that paper can’t
be made here. If it can’t, then the promised 10
per cent, duty would not be a Protective duty,
and the Protectionist papers have a right to object
to it being regarded as such. But paper can be
made from many substances, and there is no
evidence whatever that because the Yankee makes
it from pine the Australian can’t make it from
other materials. And the Protectionist organs
have no right to object to a revenue duty on their
paper, seeing that revenue is required. At all
events, the rich Freetrade newspaper proprietors
denounced the duty on their own material on the
ground that it was a Protectionist duty, and the
rich Protectionist ones because it wasn’t, so one
party must be a sordid Ananias ; and the solid
resolve of both these rich parties to run no possible
risk of contributing to the revenue was a splendid
instance of how generous foes can sink their
differences at a crisis and unite to pass the taxa-
tion on to somebody else. Both parties denounced
the proposed duty as a tax on knowledge—-but the
public is weary of the thin pretence that these
rich newspaper owners carry on business, not for
the sake of dividends, but from a high sense of
their duty to educate the community. The public
sees clearly that these papers pursue the one
object of profit with undeviating and unflinching
purpose : that for the sake of profit they will
smother any truth and father almost any lie ; and
that a slight regard for public interest
is only shown when the public penny makes
resolute demand therefor. In the one matter
of public finance, the people in Sydney have
seen, within the past few years, one daily journal
defending Reid’s rotten financial system day after
day, month after month, with an absolutely blind
disregard for facts ; then suddenly discovering the
necessity for telling the truth in a day, and turn-
ing from that brief spell of candor to just as shame-
lessly buttress up the Lyne system ; and finally
telling the truth about that only when it was
too late to effect any good. The people of the
same city, or of any other of the Australian capi-
tals, can pick from the columns of that, or any
other paper, dozens of other instances where, on
the testimony of their own columns, the newspaper
proprietaries can be convicted of the most abso-
lute and shameless falsehood. Those sturdy
beggars, the paper proprietors, extort concessions
from politicians, not in recognition of their ser-
vices as public educators, but of their power as
party organs. It is a Tammany system by which
the politician placates the paper out of the pockets
of the taxpayer ; and it will never be done away
with until—but that opens up altogether too large
a question.
The Ethics of Breach of Promise.
The jury in the Cousins-Carr (Sydney) breach-
of-promise case did not act logically in awarding
the plaintiff a beggarly £l5O as damages. He
stated in evidence that he had lost much more
than that in solid cash in the pursuit of the fickle
heiress who jilted him for Mr. Carr. If the jury-
men believed him, they should have awarded full
compensation for his cash losses, his vain expendi-
ture of time, etc. If they didn’t, they had no
right to award him anything. It is the cash loss,
and not the sentimental loss, which has to be
taken into account in such cases. The sentimen-
tal loss might be taken into account also if it
could be translated into anything that the jury
has control over, but a broken heart and a disillu-
sioned mind, and the breakage of a high ideal,
and the falling of a goddess from her pedestal,
can’t be assessed in cash. Nor can the jury award
plaintiff a new ideal, or a poem, or a dream, or a
sunset, or a new goddess on a pedestal, or
anything supposed to be good for soul-break-
age. That item has to stand, but material
loss is a thing within a jury’s reach. And though
much absurdity is talked nowadays about the
impropriety of breach-of-promise actions, the
law should take as full cognisance of such a breach
of contract as of any other involving a loss to
either of the parties. If a man engages himself
to marry a woman, and, on the understanding of
that engagement, induces her to abandon, for,
perhaps, a lengthy term, the ghief business of her
life—securing a suitable husband, and subse-
quently breaks his engagement, he inflicts just
as real a cash wrong as if he had engaged her as
governess and not paid her any wages. For a
term of perhaps two years, possibly the best years
of her life, he has kept the woman from the quest
of a husband and thus materially injured her
matrimonial prospects. It is right, therefore,
that he should pay compensation. Similarly, if
a woman whose great beauty or whose for-
tune makes her a very desirable wife, engages
herself to a man and then jilts him, she inflicts a
cash wrong, since, during the period of engage-
ment, he might have been hunting another beauty
or another fortune. Matrimony is not so much a
matter of sentiment as a matter of business—
especially on the woman’s side. Why, then,
should there be a chorus of ridicule, and a disin-
clination on the part of Judge and jury to be
serious over the matter, when a breach of marriage
contract comes into court ? A bill-of-lading case
is not treated in that way. And the two really
stand on the same Commercial footing.
4
The Jingo Lie.
George Reid, in the course of his flatulent oration
at the S’Africa Day’s eating and drinking at
Clontarf (Sydney), managed to make quite a sur-
prising number of mis-statements, even for him,
about matters of fact. Here is one :
Never had there been known such a thing as a country
protecting the women and children of the men who were
fighting her own soldiers, a country feeding the very men
who had fought her.
There have been dozens of such instances. They
happen in every war. Take the case of the Ger-
mans in France in 1870-71. The Germans didn’t
even ask for “unconditional surrender.” Sedan,
Metz, and Paris were all surrendered on terms of
capitulation, and as soon as the terms were agreed
to the Germans began feeding the very men who
had fought them. The French and British did
the same with their respective prisoners in the
time of Napoleon I. The British, French,
Italians and Russians did it in the Crimea. The
Russians did it in Turkey ; the Boers did it with
their British prisoners at the beginning of the
present campaign, and do it still when they cap-
ture any prisoners. In 1870-71 the Germans pro-
tected the women and children of the French
soldiers just as they did all the other inhabitants.
Their houses were not burned after Ketciiener’s
fashion. They weren’t hustled away to disease-
sodden concentration camps. They weren’t
robbed of their possessions, and they were allowed
to follow their usual pursuits. The agents of
British, French, Belgian and other charitable
societies were allowed to go about freely distribut-
ing relief instead of being excluded ct la
Ketchener. Foreigners were permitted to travel
in the country wherever they pleased provided they
didn’t get right in the road of the armies—not shut
out on the Ketchener principle. George Reid’s
statement that no nation was ever before known to
protect the women and children of the enemy’s
country is about as silly a remark as any
old man of limited experience ever uttered.
Compared to all recent wars fought in
Europe, Ketchener’s mode of campaign-
ing has been grossly barbarous, and the
more barbarous it grows the louder is the cry of
admiration raised by peaceful, globular, bookless
old gentlemen whose titles haven’t arrived yet.
There will never be in Australia any honest ex-
pression of opinion on matters as between Britain
and other countries until titles are abolished, or
until the other countries also give titles to our
corrupt politicians and corrupt newspaper-bosses.
When there is an equal bribe on each side, or no
bribe on either side, then the square and honest
truth may be told.
4
N.S.W. Public Service Board is still wrestling
with the 900 odd appeals from its last regrading
of the Service, and the peculiar form of wrestle
which it generally adopts is causing more dissatis-
faction in the ranks. For instance : Some half-
dozen officers in the Red Tape Department
appealed in August. Last week, when they
had almost forgotten the circumstances, they
received notices that the Board would hear
them in defence. The time of service of
the notices was 2.10 p.m., and the time appointed
for hearing their cases was 2.30 that afternoon.
By 2.50 it was all over. Another case. An officer
in another branch of the Dept, also appealed some
eight months ago. Last January his health gave
way and he went away for three months’ sick-
leave. One day this week he returned to Sydney
en route to Tasmania, where he proposed to finish
his holiday, The Board somehow heard of his
presence and served notice on him that his appeal
was coming on that same afternoon. His papers
were all locked up, facts and figures forgotten,
and besides he was too ill to argue with any
Board. But down he had to go. So when it is
remembered that the Board has asked for £l5OO
to satisfy the claims of 900 appellants, or about
30s. apiece, it is no wonder that the bulk of the
disaffected regard the appeal system as a farce.
4
Sydney Telegraph item:
The House of Representatives to-day rejected the
Government’s 10 per cent, duty on printing paper. This
impost was placed on the tariff in very peculiar circum-
stances. It was the result of some bluff on the part of
Mr. Reid. The leader of the Opposition, at the beginning
of the Parliament, twitted Treasurer Turner that, as head
of the Victorian Government, he had never dared to place
a duty on printing paper, and that it was through fear
of his principal journalistic supporter in Melbourne. The
sally had so much effect on the House and was so popular
that it was repeated on platforms outside.
And Mr. Reid himself not only dared not put a
duty on printing paper for fear of his principal
journalistic supporter in Sydney, but he also
dared not refuse to carry that supporter’s
wares free through the post and to supply
it with free special express trains daily to
carry its goods all over the country at the tax-
payer’s expense ! And how howling mad the
Telegraph is at the Federal Government, which
refuses to thus pauperise it any longer, and pro-
poses to let the bracing air of Freetrade blow on
the Freetrade organ !
-4
Speaking at Clontarf, a few days ago, G. H.
Reid got off the old wheeze about the white flag
and “ Boer treachery ” after this fashion :
Why, when the white flag was used as a cowardly
shelter for his attack, even then mercy was shown.
Hasn’t that nonsense been exploded often
enough ? The white flag simply means, “ Want
to communicate.” The British drill-book says :
When it is necessary to communicate with the enemy
under a flag of truce, a smart officer . . . accompanied
by a trumpeter . . . should ride towards the enemy’s
position with flag flying and trumpet sounding. . . They
should not retire until satisfied, after being repeatedly
fired at, that they have been seen by the enemy, and that
they will not be received.
Nobody in his senses believes in a flag of truce.
As often as not it is sent with some frivolous
excuse of a message, in the hope that the “ smart
officer” will be able to pick up some piece of
information about the other side. In war, the
whole aim of each side is to fool the other. For
that purpose the flag of truce is as good a means
as any other to penetrate inside your enemys’
outposts, so that you can get a chance, if he is
careless enough to allow you, to see what he is
doing, and guess, if you are sharp enough, what
he means to do. But the main point is that the
British drill-book alludes to firing on the white
flag as quite an ordinary incident of warfare—as
something that is done as a regular thing. The
alleged sacredness of the white flag only exists
in the imaginations of the ignorant. At Nichol-
son’s Nek, according to the reports published
with pride in every Australian paper, the British
kept on firing for nearly half-an-nour after they
had hoisted the white flag. And the Boers
showed them mercy. The incident wasn’t
described as a sinful treachery, but as an evidence
of the no-surrender character of the British
soldier.
Bananas.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
In Cairns, N.Q., at Chinese New Year, the white laborers
were out of work as only half a truck of bananas came
forward for shipment. —Daily Paper.
’Arf a truck of bananas !
Isn’t it heathen luck !
’Arf a truck of bananas
—Only a 'arf a truck.
And the white man sits with a gloomy brow
And sucks at his old black pipe.
And waits till it pleases the cheerful Chow
To cease from making his heathen row
And gather “ Banana ripe ! ”
’Arf a truck of bananas —
They have no kids to feed !
’Arf a truck of bananas,
Little of clothes they need ;
For they live as cheap as a poor-house rat
Which a white man cannot stand.
’Arf a truck —and be glad of that, —
For the white man starves while the Chow grows
fat
In the white man’s native land !
’Arf a truck of bananas,
They have no wives and bairns;
’Arf a truck of bananas,
They are the rulers of Cairns.
For the fittest lives—as the schoolboy knows,
In Nature’s cruel test,
The horse must starve where the rabbit goes,
And the sheep must perish to feed the crows,
And the fittest is not the best.
’Arf a truck of bananas,
’Ark to the bloomin’ gong!
’Arf a truck of bananas,
Look at ’em march along
With a brass concern like a dragon’s snout
That causes them great delight,
And the crackers bang and the Chinkies shout—
But the day will come when we’ll march ’em out
And see that the land is White !
ROBERT CARR.


FOR YOUR HOLIDAYS
jhfd
premo & poco Cameras.
LARGEST PHOTOGRAPHIC STORE
IN AUSTRALIA.
PHOT > IAPIIIC, MAGIC LANTERN and EDISON’S TALKING
MACHINE Catalogues mailed on application.
Baker & Rouse Proprietary
LIMITED, *
375 QEORQE STREET, SYDNEY.
260 Collins Streeti
MELBOURNE
90 and 92 Queen Street,
BRIBBANE.
65 Rundle Street,
ADELAIDE.
OAWMILL MACHINERY.
BAND or CIRCULAR MILLS, very heavy for
hardwood timber. Complete Outfits of any capa-
city. BAND RESAWS. ENGINES. BOILERS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
PULP MACHINERY. GRIP PULLEYS.
FLOUR MILLING MACHINERY.
“ ALLIS ” ROLLER FLOUR MTT.T.S
UNIVERSAL BOLTER SYSTEM.
on the
WILLIAM FLEMING, 24 Clarence-street, SYDKEY.
FACILE PRINCEPS. |
1 SEMPER IDEM. 1
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Ben Hur.”
Lyceum “ Hearts are Trumps.”
Palace World’s Entertainers.
Theatre Royal “ Aladdin.”
Tivoli Rickards’Co.
Empire Cosgrove Dramatic Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ Sweet Nell of Old Drury.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Runaway Girl.”
Theatre Royal “ The Night Birds of London.”
Bijou World’s Entertainers.
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
“ Ben Hur,” at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, still
views the procession from his ancestral flat-
roofed palace and drops loose bricks on the
Procurator, and then goes to the galleys
and rows “ stroke ” for the slave club
against the pirate combine. Judah’s dress and
that of his fellow slaves as they feather their own
oars, is said to be the real historical undress of
men who filled the galley benches in those bad,
exciting old days. It consists principally of
leather straps supporting the muscles most under
strain. The work was fearfully hard, and there
appears to have been no pay-day at all. No post-
office orders for two talents and upwards ever
reached the wife of the Roman galley slave. But,
as he rarely survived the work three years, she
might look forward to widowhood and a subsequent
second marriage. That little summer tent on the
roof of Ben Hur’s palace is pretty. In it, no doubt,
the mother of Hur warmed the afternoon goat’s
milk on her days at home for visitors named Ruth,
Rebecca, Tamar and the like. But in it now
Miss Lane, as the mother of Hur, nuzzles her
son’s head against her knee, and her daughter
Tirzah’s head against her breast. Rose Musgrove
no longer plays Hur’s beloved sister Tirzah. She
has gone with the second “San Toy” Co., and
Flurrie Gleeson takes her Jewish place. The
Hurs kept a huge staff of servants. When the
cook-ladies, nurses, handmaids and tirewomen
run up to the roof in terror of the Roman soldiers
one can form an idea of Mrs. Hur’s responsibilities
—and comforts.
**. * •
In the Revels of Daphne scene a masque
of Eros is a good “ turn.” A maid and a lad clad
in lambskins are in love, but the maid is coy, or
doesn’t know her own mind, or hasn’t asked
mamma, or something, and holds hack. Anon
comes Eros in the person of a baby girl dressed in
pink satin wings. Eros fixes matters with his
bow and arrow and the lamb-skinned maid grows
quite fond and demonstrative. The three horses
don’t love the white camel any more than at first,
and the camel’s scorn of the chorus is undisguised.
It doesn’t seem to like anything but chewing its
cud and groaning. The betting scene and the
chariot race remain two of the finest effects.
*# * *
“ Aladdin,” at Sydney Royal, is to be con-
gratulated on getting away from the usual ugly
Chinese costumes, at least so far as the women
are concerned, and robing its little Cheekees and
Washee-Washees quite irrespective of nationality.
They are dressed as the inhabitants of No Place in
Particular, which is a bright green country and
situated next to Things in General. In No Place
in Particular they only give the clothes a dry
wash after all. The management keeps its little
Chinkee ladies pretty well to dark hair, though
black locks—on the stage—are apt to strike a
harsh, coarse note amidst the harmonies of pinks
and pale yellows. The contrast in opera land is
always a little too violent. The Jap ladies,
however, rush in with locks shading into their
costumes. There is a gradual dawn of beauty :
First a few damsels, pale-garmented and pale-
haired, arrive like a small Japanese day-break;
then a few more dance in with a deeper tint of
gold on their floating draperies and gleaming
tresses, till at last there comes a rush of
Elizabethan locks and garments to match. These
ladies, who are all one color, suggest a useful idea.
If the same idea was adopted off the stage then it
would only be necessary for a lady to lay the end of
her tail of hair on the sales-eounter with a request
for clothes to match.
j** * *
“ Hearts are Trumps ” continues its glit-
tering career at Sydney Lyceum, and as a com-
bination of fairly good drama and an excellent
show of millinery commands the respect of male
and female onlookers alike. There is very little
love in the production with the sentimental title,
and the young cleric, whom the troublesome good
girl is understood to marry, is a shadowy person
who becomes useful only in the last scene when
several of the characters fall off precipices. Sydney
by this time has got over the shock of seeing its
Baker as a grumpy, grey-haired personage, whose
brother, by the way, is understood to be a convict
because he thoughtlessly went to Australia.
There was a time when it was dangerous to one’s
reputation to be known as having been in Aus-
tralia, but that has long since passed, and doesn’t
fit in with frocks of 1902. The refreshing circum-
stance about “Hearts are Trumps ” is that, though
various reputations are lost, they are not mislaid
by means of forged letters or dropped marriage
certificates, but by new, up-to-date methods, such
as Biographs and Art Academy Pictures. There
is something in being up-to-date, even in one’s
method of getting lost.
** * *
“ The World’s Entertainers ” lay down
their arms before a sea of troubles and leave
Sydney Palace this Saturday. They departed
from Sydney some months ago after having
revolutionised variety business in that city, amid
enthusiastic cheering, but came back to a decidedly
cool welcome. This was partly due to their
serious mistake in trying to make up the major
part of the programme of stale items; partly to
plague fears; partly to Bunth, Rudd and
Co. (far the best of the new turns) fading
out of the programme because of Bunth’s
illness, and the impossibility of doing much
with Rudd without Bunth; and the rest of
the trouble arose from other misfortunes. The
co., which to new audiences is as fine a
variety combination as could be imagined,
goes on tour, and an entirely fresh one
will resume at the Palace after the interval of a
week. During its last week the World’s Enter-
tainers are strengthened by the Casino trio, excep-
tionally artistic musicians with a clever vein of
comedy. Perhaps if they and others had arrived a
little earlier the result might have been different,
but then the world is full of things that might have
been different. And, when we come to think of
it, nothing ever is different.
** * *
The Lenton Trio of agile “ hat-jugglers ”
appeared for the first time at Sydney Tivoli on
Saturday. Miss Lenton, besides catching and
wearing several hats at once, sings coon songs as
they are not often sung. She does it in such a
way as to suggest that the writer of the coon song
needn’t be hanged after all, or, if he is hanged,
that he might at least be allowed spiritual conso-
lation first; and the two male Lentons do some
clever athletic business as well as the hats-
trick. Altogether, they are a rather agreeable
trio to meet.
The foregoing foolishness is one way of repeating
the statement that “ Sweet Nell,” at Melb. Prin-
cess’s, and “ The Runaway Girl,” at Her
Majesty’s, continue to be accepted as “ bits of all
right ” in their respective spheres of rightness.
The two shows have nothing in common beyond
certain names on the programmes. For instance,
Harcourt Beatty is His Majesty Charles 11, King
of England, at th-3 'Princess’s, whereas Fred,
England and May Beatty are wandering minstrels
at Her Majesty’s. Also, Howard Vernon is Sir
Somebody on one bill, and Miss Sadler is Lady
Vernon on the other. This will help to explain
the mental confusion of the rhymester who has
partaken freely of both entertainments during the
past week.
By the way, the nights of “Sweet Nell”
are numbered, owing to arrangements over which
that spiritualised orange-girl had no control. On
March 29 the estimable farewell tourist, Robert
Brough, will return to the Princess with Mrs.
Brough and the co., and will devote five weeks in
all to “ The Amazons” and other matters, includ-
ing a first Melbourne production of Pinero’s
“ Iris.” Therefore “ Nell ” seems certain to have
an exceptionally lovely time between now and
Easter.
** # *
The Bij jou is also hooked for. a new com-
pany on the 29th, when Geach and Willoughby
intend to put “The Wrong Mr. Wright” in
possession of the floor. Meanwhile the World’s
Entertainers have been recruited by the miniature
Dartos and infantile Floradorians, late of Sydney.
Salerno, the dainty juggler, is astounding as usual,
and the tenor, Neal M‘Cay, supplies a want, but
the Warsaw Bros, add nothing to the gaiety of
nations.
** * *
At Melb. Royal, a revival of Widow
O’Brien, which amounts to much the same thing
as the recent revival of Johanna Murphy, will
provide an outlet for John F. Sheridan’s she-male
humor until Friday of this week. On Saturday
(15th), Anderson’s dramatic co.—the co. wherein
Miss Duggan is the suffering heroine, and Bert
Bailey heads the comic relief detachment —falls
due at the Royal. Melbourne has not experienced
any Andersonian thrillers for a year or two. Some
that he brings along this time are new in the
melodramatic sense of the word, and the lurid
novelty billed for the 15th is “The Night Birds
of London.”
** * *
Ten energetic girls who play net ball, and
are becoming expert by degrees, were introduced
at the Opera House last Saturday. Otherwise,
the Rickards programme remains as before, or
nearly so. Derenda and Breen, the club jugglers,
are generally considered to deserve everything the
advt. says about them, and the popular Irish senti-
ment re the Callahan and Mack is endorsed by all
other sections of the local White Australia. More-
over, the talent of these two unorthodox artists
is so well-balanced that nobody troubles to wonder
which of them is Mack.
** * *
“The Two Worlds,” recently produced at
Adelaide Royal with much preliminary booming,
whs a wonderful spectacle. Heaven was freely-
shown in the opening scenes, a kind of electric-
lighted Catherine-wheel at the back presumably re-
presenting the Almighty, who had a big speaking
part, given by a voice “off.” There were 34
scenes, some of them lasting barely a minute (the
author, l 1 ather Duff, is evidently quite ignorant
of stagecraft). The audience stood things fairly
well until, a series of back-cloths developing, it
suddenly realised that it was assisting at the
creation of the world! The G-reat Deep, full
of “living souls” (as they were oddly called)
was a great joy, being apparently imitated
from one of E. T. Rees’s “prehistoric peeps,”
with an immense dragon in the middle distance,
and an irresistible schnapper—mouth open and an
astonished expression—gazing straight at the
audience in the foreground. With the Garden of
Eden came something like a dramatic interest,
but also obvious chances for the gallery boys, who
begged Eve to “ beware of the codlin moth.”
After that things became quite mixed. Peter and
John were suddenly found talking to the Virgin
Mary on the banks of the Jordan. There was a
“ Temptation scene ” (eight fully-clad girls danc-
ing in a wood with nobody else present), and the
final scene was “Sunset on the Coral Islands ” ! !
The dialogue was partly Milton, partly Genesis,
with slabs of Duff, as when Satan refused to
tempt Adam in person, because “ he would waste
time in asking thousands of questions.” The play
ran just two nights ; but someone with a sense of
humour, a large blue pencil, and £lO,OOO to mount
and dress it adequately, might make something
of it.
MARSH, N.S.W. Aboriginal Cricketer
and Athlete.
Photo, by Kerry & Co., Sydney
Marsh, for long more or less prominent through
cinder-track feats and bowling, has, this season, been
forced to the forefront by sole selector M. A. Noble’s
persistent ignoring of his proven wicket-bagging
capabilities, and also Maclaren’s “kick” against
his inclusion in the Bathurst team to play against the
Englishmen, as well as Bathurst’s weak-kneed backdown.
Marsh is a full-blooded aboriginal and first saw light at
Ohatswood Island (not Grafton, as generally stated),
Clarence River, 28 years ago. A neatly-built, nattily-
attired, well-behaved and presentable chap in every way
he looks all ascribed to him but his origin. Noble insisted,
when he did speak (and then not publicly), that Marsh
wasn’t favored because the quality of his bowling, though
disastrous in club cricket, fell much below inter-State
and international necessities ; besides he could not be
relied upon at a pinch, which would—more likely than
not—find him all astray. This was only Noble’s alleged
opinion; there was nothing whatever to'suppdrt it, and
everything to prove the opposite. Maclaren averred fear
for the limbs of his men on the eve. of the fourth test, and
dubbed Marsh a “ shyer.” Coming from a man who
stuck to Britisher Mold, after he had been named by the
Marylebone Club committee and no-balled by Phillips,
and in face of the fact that no umpire had all through
now-closing season questioned Marsh’s deliveries once,
this is distinctly good. Noble had no qualms about pick-
ing M‘Beth—Marsh’s fellow club bowler—and ignoring
the black, though it was patent to the veriest chump that
Marsh had been much more successful against batsmen
of the first class.
Last Monday’s cablegram :
The Japanese Government, in making announcements
in the Diet, expressed the belief that the steps taken for
the removal of the discrimination of Japanese in the alien
legislation by Australia would succeed.
As nothing is being done here, the inference is
that the “steps which are being taken” to force
Australia to admit Japanese are being taken in
England, and that these steps consist of judicious
breathing into the ear of Salisbury and Chamber-
lain. And the Jap Government reckons that suc-
cess is assured. AsSalisbury, Chamberlain and co.,
despite their oily palaver about “consulting the
wishes of the colonies,” are a most high-handed
gang in their dealings with British subjects, while
pitiably servile to the Jap, and as they never con-
sult “ the colonies ” even about things that most
concern them, the Jap statement is less im-
probable than it looks. This country’s bursts of
Jingo fervor have only served to convince Cham-
berlain that it is a place that can be trodden on
with impunity.
Sing hey ! for Sweet Nell of Old Drury—
The dear little Runaway Girl
Who laughs at the impotent fury
Of Jeffries and Rochester’s earl.
She scoots from a Corsican convent,
Despite Lady Castlemaine’s snarls,
Whilst Flipper and Alice
Play “ picks ” in the palace,
She mashes King Kenningham Charles—
She calls him her sire,
And sets him afire—
For Nell is the flame of King Charles.
But Jeffries pretends to discover
That Coodle is writing an ode
Concerning Sweet Nell and a lover,
Who lives in the Blackfriars Road;
So Howard Olivia Vernon *
(Oft named in historical books)
Cries “Odds fish ! and Dammy !
Gee-up, Brother Tammy,
And follow the Lauri from Cook’s :
The hurdles are low,
So over you go,
And follow the Lauri from Cook’s ! ”
Then Winifred Grey and Palotta
In company visit the King :
They tell him the Judge is a plotter, '
And Nell a quite innocent thing.
His Majesty pardons young Fairfax,
The victim of Jeff’s wicked scheme,
And brings down the curtain
By gaily assertin’
That Nelly May Beatty’s “ a dream.”
He rightly declares,
As she goes down the stairs,
That Nell is a vanishing dream.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, March 11, 1902.
My Dear Arini, —
A vegetarian cafe, with mostly American
vegetables in the window, has commenced busi-
ness in Sydney. It is not by any means the first
of its kind. Eight or nine or ten years ago a
vegetarian restaurant didn’t flourish in George-
street. A few thin, burdened-looking people
dined there daily. It turned into an ordinary
restaurant after a while, and then it lifted the
spectre—as a foreign gentleman, who had forgotten
the idiom about giving up the ghost, once said to
me.
“ Love redeems the world.” I once saw that in
print somewhere, and it recurred to me (Eros
knows why, perhaps ; I don’t) when I read that
the plaintiff in the Cousins-M‘Nevin breach-of-
promise case had presented one of the Elsies of
his acquaintance with an infant pig named
“ Minnie.” Miss M'Nevin’s pet name was Minnie.
Mr. Cousins loved Miss M‘Nevin. He said so
himself. So did Mr. Reid, his counsel. Yet that
piglet trifle went against him heavily with the
jury. If the gift had been a canary bird named
Minnie, poor Richard would probably have got
another £2O added on to the paltry £l5O damages.
The principals in this breach-of-promise case came
from Molong, and were almost unknown in Syd-
ney until they gave it a good laugh on a day last
June. On that day Miss M‘Nevin was to
marry Mr. Cousins, and a number of guests,
including Mon.signor O’Brien and Dr. O’Haran,
and other members of the R.C. hierarchy,
awaited the pair in the church. But the
Voice was not Breathing just then over Molong.
The bride had met another lover, a commercial
traveller named Carr. Him she married a month
later. The wedding took place from Pfahlert’s
Hotel, Sydney ) and the hall urchin in buttons
bore the bride’s train, and principals and guests
made a much-stared-at theatre-party the same
night. Successful wooer is a fresh-faced youth,
said to be even younger than the 27-year-old one
the bride jilted.
Miss MNevin’s mother evidently believed in
keeping her one child “down,” for Minnie,
in earlier days, does not appear to have
been able to meet a man save by stealth.
Judging by the readiness with which she fell
in love and kept both admirers on, she
must have been of an affectionate nature. As
her estate is worth £50,000 there was no lack of
reciprocity. Over one thing Mrs. Carr may
rejoice : Her real age did not come out in court.
One of the counsel said it was 38, the opposition
hazarded it at 50. Love-letters of the Molong
couple were few in number and uninteresting in
substance, and not so ridiculous as the letters of
most engaged couples seem to a third person.
One of the angriest of the breach outsiders must
be the postmistress who was greatly “ shook ” on
the wrong Mr. Right who got left. ’ She probably
didn’t care a penny stamp for him—he no doubt
spoke truly when he said he wrote that in jest.
But juries and loungers are so humorless. When
the Yorks were here, a plain kharkee ranker, who
helped to line the streets during some rainy cere-
mony, wrote to a chum at Gumbough, or some
such place, that the Duchess had taken a great
fancy to him, and had held her umbrella over him
during the pouring rain. Did the Gumboughers
say, “Very feeble joke!” and go on with their
timber-getting and milking? No ! They knocked
off work to talk about the boldness of a recently-
married royal personage thus publicly mashing a
free Australian warrior.
Miss M‘Nevin’s counsel offered to settle the
case with a solatium of £5OO and costs, but
Richard simply scoffed at the offer and fought it
out, only to fare worse.
From Maoriland, a wire from George Smith,
Wilson Barrett’s manager, announces his marriage
to Miss Gertrude Boswell, the plump “boy”
Stephanus in the “ Sign of the Cross.” Miss
Boswell has been with the Barrett co. since she
was a child, and is getting a bit too grown-up-
looking for the role of tortured Christian youth,
which she plays so well. George Smith is a Mel-
bourne man, son of late Washington Smith who
was one of the business managers of Lyster, the
impresario.
Poor, pretty little Ada Willoughby Was so ill
last week that only pluck and quinine got her
through her nightly singing, washing, dancing,
and love-making. A funny little Skye doggie
accompanies her to the theatre every night, sleeps
in her dressing-room, but wakes up every time his
missus comes in to make one of her many changes
of dress. But when her last frock—a pale green
satin with chrysanthemums—is laid ready by the
dresser the Skye sniffs it, shakes himself, and does
not nap again, for he knows the missus and he
have stopped mumming for the night.
Widow Twankey’s Chinese laundry robe in
“ Aladdin ” is well worth study under the opera
glass. It has a raised border of black velvet cats
—large ones, shedding tears. Each cat’s tail is
elaborately curled, and the heads drop pathetically
as the big tear-drops fall. No rats in the laundry
—hence those tears.
“ What to wear at the Coronation.” “ Corona-
tion Coiffures,” “ Coronation Calves” (for spindle-
shanked noblemen and footmen), these are the
matters that now occupy fashionable London to
the exclusion of the war, which it treats as a bore-
some back number. A Coronet has, it seems, a
band of silk across the cavity which the head is
supposed to fill. You will carry it slung on your
wrist until it is time for you to put it on in the
Abbey after the Queen puts on her lid. Many
venerable papers are showing pictures of Corona-
tion Coiffures for Duchesses, Marchionesses and
other grades of peeresses. The faces below these
coiffures are as beautiful as Helen of Troy and as
young as twenty years. No account seems to be
taken of the many peeresses with unfurred skulls
and doddery with age.
(Continued on page IU.)


stocks Kept of
RAND ROCK DRILLS & AIR COMPRESSORS
BY THE SOLE AGENTS—
N. GUTHRIDGE, LTD., 71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
And at 486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE; WELLINGTON, N.Z.;
214 HIGH STREET, FREMANTLE; KALCOORLIE.
jhdf
TRAMWAYS. TRAMWAYS.
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Prop. Ltd.
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
representing ORENSTEIN & KOPPEL LTD., of LONDON and BERLIN
Equip Complete TRAMWAYS and supply Every Description of Tramway Material
__ Locomotives from 10 to 250 h.p. "a®
STOCKS IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE include Rails and Accessories Steel Sleeners
Turntables Switches, Side Tipping Trucks. Steel Wheels, &c. Technical adviceSffiSfv
rendered F!ymg and Bermanent Surveys arranged. Illustrated Photo-
graphic Albums showing Tramways constructed in different parts of the World unon
application. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager.
In addition to its other mining specialties,
N. Guthridge, Ltd., have now taken up pumps, having
been appointed agents for the Pulsometer Engineering
Co., England. The manufactures of this company are
well known, but it does not confine itself to the celebrated
Pulsometer Steam Pump. Pumps of various kinds are
manufactured by the Pulsometer Engineering Co., and
kept in stock by the agents at 71 Clarence-street,
Sydney, and 486 Collins-street, Melbourne.*
Mr. A. Gilfillan, B.Sc., O.E. (Edin.), Joining
and Metallurgical Engineer, Stock Exchange Buildings,
Melbourne, is leaving for London about April next, for
the purpose of establishing a London office, and attending
to the flotation of approved mining and other proposi-
tions. Before leaving Mr. Gilfillan will visit the various
colonies for the purpose of inspecting any options which
may be offered. Correspondence invited from mine-
owners who have properties worth handling.*
* * * •
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * •
See for yourself. The Australian Medical
Gazette of January, 1891, compares Zetz Spa to the cele-
brated Vichy waters of France, and states that it is
valuable for gout, rheumatism, gravel, catarrh of the
bladder, diabetes, dyspepsia, splenic and hepatic dis-
orders.
♦ * * •
Vanning Tables. —The very newest and what
gives exceedingly fair promise of superseding all other
tables is the machine known as the Wesley-Baird Vanning
Table. The table is of South Australian invention, and
has given excellent results on Broken Hill ores and ores
containing pyrites, carbonate of copper and tin. Like all
tables, the best work is done on “ fines,” and more espe-
cially when the product is properly classified. The
Central Mining and Tramway Co., of 424 Little Collins-
street, Melbourne, and 40 Hunter-street, Sydney, are the
sole agents in the Eastern States. The table has a capa-
city up to 30 tons per day.*
* * * *
City Leader, July, 1901: “We can only say,
as before, that for security and reliability the Colonial
Mutual takes a high place in the insurance world.”*
* * • «
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “ Option,"
Melbourne. *
* * * *
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
* * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footsoray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts,nuts,forgings, andallsortsofiron-work *
* « * *
There has arrived in Victoria the full text of
the decision of Judge Riner, of the Circuit Court of
Colorado, in the suit in which the proprietor of the
Wilfley concentrator sought to restrain the Denver
Engineering Co. from manufacturing and selling the
Cammet concentrating table, on the ground that to do
so would constitute an infringement of the patent rights
held by him. The Judge in finding for the applicant,
declined to recognise the Wilfley table as a mere improve-
ment on existing concentrating tables, holding that the
patentee had, by the use of riffles in the way they were
employed on the table, solved a problem in ore concentra-
tion that had never before been answered. IICalso drew
attention to the fact that the inventor had foreseen that
other ingenious minds might achieve good results by
making various changes in the construction of riffles, anil
therefore he had included in his specification the words
“ I do no not limit the invention to any special construc-
tion of riffle.” The Judge in finding for the complainant,
gave costs against the Denver Engineering Works Co.*
♦ * * *
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Bucuu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
* * * *
The U.S. War Department lately published a
report of much importance to Australian coal-getters and
shippers—on the coal measures of the Philippines, pre-
pared by the officer in charge of the mining bureau at
Manila. The Cebu and other measures give “ a coal suit-
able for many commercial purposes,” free-burning and of
good steaming value; arid the officer finds “no reason
why it should not compete all through the Orient with
the Japanese and Australian coals so largely used there.”
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles. Caustic Soda,
Borax, Arsenic, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CAUBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Naptha, Benzine and Blasting; Charges.
Ny. Markwald,
178 William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney; 68 Currie-xt., Adel.; V Hatie-street,
Brisb. ; anil at Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellinjton, and
Auckland, XX.
The Wild Cat Column.
Some revenue matters:
New South Walks (8 months to 28th February).
Revenue (Rents
of Resumed
Area of Sydney Ordinary
not included). Expenditure. Deficit.
1901 £6,910,510 .. £7,127,725 .. £217,215
1902 6,909,335 .. 7,311,148 ... 401,813
Decrease £1175
Increase £183,423 .. £184,598
Or if the See-O’Sullivan Government is given the benefit
of its own indefensible proceedings, and the rents for the
unpaid-for properties in the resumed area of Sydney are
treated as legitimate revenue, which they certainly are
not, the figures result as follows :
Revenue
(Including Rents
of Resumed Ordinary
Area of Sydney). Expenditure. Deficit.
1901 £6,965,026' .'. £7,127,725 .. £162,699
1902 7,085,902 .. 7,311,148 .. 225,246
Increase £120,876 .. £183,423 .. £62,547
Either way the expenditure is increasing in an alarming
fashion, and the new outlays are not accounted for in any
way by the Old Age Pension expenditure. That is far
more than counterbalanced by the fact that the cost of
running the postal, telegraph, and military departments
is now defrayed by the Commonwealth. If things had
been conducted on the same basis as last financial year
the expenditure, despite Old Age Pensions, would have
been much less, for the See-O’Sullivan Ministry charges
its unproductive public works to loans in the mad old
way, and there are no new charges against revenue under
that head.
But it is in the matter of loan expenditure that
the See and O’Sullivan crowd shows at its maddest. This
is the record :
New South Wales Loan Expenditure.
8 months to 8 months to
28th Feb., 28th Feb.,
1901. 1902. Increase.
Ordinary loan ex-
penditure .. £1,765,472 .. £2,522,689 .. £757,217
On Sydney land re-
sumptions .. Nil. .. 590,431 .. 590,431
£1,765,472 £3,113,120 £1,347,648
Hitherto, the worst year’s record in the way of loan ex-
penditure which N.S.W. ever put up was that of Parkes
and M‘Millan, in 1891, when these two amazing financiers
got through £4,750,167, but, if the present Ministry keeps
up anything like the last two months’ rate of outgoings,
it will break even that record very badly. Out of the
£700,872 spent last month, about half may be called
reproductive. The tramway conversions can’t fairly
be called productive, for they are merely abolishing one
productive asset and putting another in its place. Then,
in addition to the above, £755,179 of new debt has been
created in the shape of Treasury bills, and applied to
extinguishing the Martin Place and Centennial Park
Gjydney) suspense accounts, and to making good a certain
bygone misappropriation of sinking-fund moneys made
by the late Ministry. The proceeds of the misappropria-
tion were used as revenue, and the misappropriation is
made good again out of loans. It was resolved by Parlia-
ment that an extra sum should be paid annually out of
revenue to reduce the great mass of Treasury bill debt,
but it has never been paid as yet, and doesn’t seem likely
to be.
New South Wales closed last year with an
admitted shortage of £117,725, and a real one of about
£251,000 inasmuch as the revenue was swelled by the
inclusion of £133,043 received by way of rent from the
unpaid-for properties in the resumed area of Sydney.
This year, with a greatly-increased tariff revenue, it seems
likely to close with an even larger deficit. And it is only
a year or two since the Sydney press was asking, in an
anxious tone, what on earth N.S.W. would do with its
great Federal tariff surplus. The comedy of it all!
* * * *
Queensland shows up a little better this month:
Queensland (8 months to 28th February).
Revenue. Expenditure. Deficit.
1901 .. .. £2,825,930 .. £2,845,617 .. £19,687
Surplus.
1902 .. .. 2,445,418 .. 2,406,838 .. 38,580
Decrease .. £380,512 .. £438,779
This means a general improvement of £58,267, and if it
can be maintained the deficit (as compared to last year’s
monumental shortage of £528,000 odd) should not be
more than £450,000. Supposing it pans out at that
Queensland will again, despite the improvement, have, in
proportion to population, the Biggest Deficiency on
Earth. Loan affairs in Queensland continue to grow
worse. During the past eight months the Philp Ministry
spent £770,004 of other people’s money, an increase of
£38,627 as compared with the corresponding period of
1901. This is at the rate of £1,155,000 per annum, which
would be much the same, proportionately to population,
as if Britain borrowed £100,000,000 abroad in a quiet,
peaceful, ordinary year, to keep things going.
* * * *
Tasmania, which commences its financial year
on Ist January, has begun very badly. This is the
showing so far:
Tasmania (2 months to 28th February).
Revenue, 1901 £152,716
„ 1902 114,820
Decrease £37,896
No information about ordinary or loan expenditure is to
hand, but the figures are sufficient to show that Tasmania
is in an exceedingly bad way. Last year, ends didn’t
meet by a considerable distance, and the decline, as com-
pared with last year, is already something memorable.
* » * *
Victoria shows a material improvement so far,
the very scanty information available showing that,
despite the loss of border duties, the revenue for the
eight months to 28th February, 1902, is about £109,000
more than for the corresponding period of last year. As
usual, no expenditure facts are published.
* * » *
As for Westralia, its boom still continues. The
Federal tariff increased its revenue from customs on
foreign imports. It is permitted, unlike the other States,
to still collect its inter-State duties, and it collects them
vigorously ; it purchases enormously from abroad, which
makes its customs revenue large, and it gets the money
to pay for these purchases to a great extent by huge
foreign loans. So far, its record is :
Westralia (8 months to 28th February).
Revenue. Expenditure. Surplus.
1901 ... £2,007,349 £1,997,650 £9699
1902 ... 2,351,508 2,078,325 273,183
Increase £344,159 £80,675 £263,484
If Westralia would decide to build the rest of its Cool-
gurdie Water Supply system out of surplus revenue
instead of out of loans, the shock to the community when
the pipe bursts would be so much the less noticeable.
* * * *
Mr. W. H. Vivian, secretary Sydney Stock
Exchange, having voyaged to Europe, learned things
which he has eagerly communicated to the newspapers.
Here is one of them : “ The public and private in-
debtedness of Australia was so great that a tre-
mendous amount of money was going from here in
interest, and unfortunately was not coming back in
THE SHAPE OP PRIVATE LOANS, OR MONEY DEVOTED TO
private enterprise.” “ Unfortunately was not coming
back in the shape of private loans ! ” Evidently then Mr.
Vivian’s remedy for a loan evil which is draining
Australia of “ a tremendous amount of money ” is more
loans, and a bigger drain of interest. He holds that
“ unfortunately ” we are not getting further into debt
quite so fast as we might do. And yet men with ideas
like that fancy themselves quite competent to run public
affairs.
• • • *
The Union Bank of Australia :
Written]
Profits. Dividends. off. Reserves.
Feb., 1895 .. £37,173 5 p.c.= £37,500 £1,014,093
Aug., 1895 .. 36,063 5 „ „ 37,500 1,012,656
Feb., 1896.. 37,995 5 „ „ 37,500 1,013,151
Aug., 1896.. 58,838 5 „ „ 37,500 £10,000 1,024,489
Feb., 1897 .. 37,578 5 „ „ 37,500 1,024,567
Aug., 1897.. 37,4365 „ „ 37,500 1,024,503
Feb., 1898 .. 47,696'5 „ „ 37,500 10,000 1,024,699
Aug., 1898.. 42,579 5 „ „ 37,500,' 1,029,778
Feb., 1899.. 42,0716 „ „ 45,000 1,026,849
Aug., 1899.. 48,514 6 ,, „ 45,000 1,030,363
Feb., 1900.. 92,002 7 „ „ 52,500 50,000 1,019,865
Aug., 1900.. 79,825 7 „ „ 52,500 25,000 1,022,190
Feb., 1901 .. 86,628 8 „ „ 60.000 1 25,000 1,023,818
Aug., 1901., 95,681:8 „ ,, 60,000 35,000 1,024,499
The reserves consist of reserve-fund, £875,000 ; con-
tingency-fund, £125,000 ; and undivided profit, £24,499.
According to the estimate made a few years ago, there is
still £125,000 to be written off before losses are fully pro-
vided for. At the present rate of progress, and assuming
that no further disasters strike this country, another two
or three years should see the old depreciation wiped off.
The Union Bank’s profits for the six months to
31st August, 1900, were at the rate of £7 11s. 8d. per cent,
per annum on the shareholders’ funds as at the com-
mencement of the half-year—a rate such as very few banks
earn nowadays. It holds £3,613,713 in cash and £1,518,728
in Government and municipal securities, so its position is
even more solid than usual. It has over £14,000,000 of
deposits. And in general it is a fine, solid British insti-
tution, which has extracted large dividends—ranging
from 6 to 36 per cent.—out of this country for many
years, and has been one of the most costly and most
highly respected absentees in Australia’s experience.
• • • •
The Australian Widows’ Fund Life Assurance
Society show’s a reasonably good result for 1901, and the
figures compare with some previous years as follows :
Fund.
1893 .. £165,285 £55,799 £221,084 £36,233 £100,733
1894 .. 157,442 57.729 215,171 36,908 84,202
1895 .. 153,607 53]l94 206,801 40,919 60,718
1896 .. 155,080 58,799 213,879 37,747 6S.392
Investment Fluctuation Fund (£3503), and £121,475
of Assurance Fund written off to cover losses.
1897 .. 150,602 58,446 209,048 38,060 49,005
1898 .. 155,539 58,881 214,420 41,936 63,716
1899 .. 161,603 60,853 222,456 48,951 57,866
1900 .. 171,740 62,050 233,790 52,079 59,524
1901 .. 183,805 63,293 247,098 66,519 80,940
This is the largest addition made to the funds since 1894,
and it raises the assurance fund to £1,509,234. In addi-
tion to this there is a suspense account or depreciation
fund of £9324, consisting of sums recovered from the
great writing-down which was effected in 1896. The total
funds are therefore £1,618,558. Also, there is a very
remarkable improvement in the total income.
The expense rate, however—always the worst
feature of the Australian Widows’ Fund—has not im-
proved, but has grown even a trifle worse than before.
The average of late years has been :
Expenses as Compared with Total Income.
1890 .. £19 10 7 percent. 1896 .. £17 13 0 percent.
1891 .. 18 6 0 „ 1897 .. 18 4 0
1892 .. 18 4 0 „ 1898 .. 19 11 1 „
1893 .. 16 7 8 „ 1899 .. 22 0 1 „
1894 .. 17 3 0 „ 1900 .. 22 5 6 „
1895 .. 19 15 8 „ 1901 .. 22 17 6 „
This is not by any means the highest rate in Australasia,
but it is a very high rate, especially if compared with
such offices as the A. M.P. or the Maoriland Government
Life Insurance Department. It is probably inevitable in
a country which has too many life assurance offices in
proportion to population, but, inevitable or not, it is not
a good thing for policy-holders. The increase in business
since 1893 has been bought at great cost, and during the
last six years the increase in the expense rate has been
continuous. And while the expense rate goes up the
rate of interest earned diminishes, as is the experience
with all Australasian offices nowadays. The Australian
Widows’ Fund realised since 1897 as follows:—
Interest Realised on Average Funds.
1897 £4 15s. 7d. per cent. 1900 £4 8s. 8d. per cent.
1898 £412s. Od. „ 1901 £4 6s. 3d.
1899 £4 10s. 9d.
In 1897 the Australian Widows’ Fund had just raised its
average interest rate very heavily by writing down the
book value of its properties in a most liberal fashion, so
that year makes a convenient starting point. Since then
there has been no writing down of values, and the drop
has been enormous. The Society provides for the decline
by reducing its interest estimates from 4 to 3J per cent.
But even at 3£ per cent, there is hardly any larger a
margin than there was at 4 per cent, in 1897. The posi-
tion is safe enough, but already the necessity of reducing
the interest estimates to 3 per cent, looks as if it might
not be far distant. And a good many other offices are in
a similar position. This isn’t specially good for the
bonuses, but that is unavoidable.
The Australian Widows’ Fund, however, does
one thing which looks wholly foolish and disastrous. It
has, as already mentioned, a Suspense Account or
Depreciation Fund of £9324, made up of sums recovered
from the writing-off of 1896. This isn’t much of a pro-
vision for possible losses on about £1,450,000 worth of
investments—it would only cover a depreciation of about
13s. on every £100. Especially it isn’t much in a country
where values are so grossly inflated by the influx of
foreign loans. It would have been a fair thing to increase
this reserve to at least £30,000, and to have made pro-
vision for investing it separately so that it would accumu-
late at compound interest against the next emergency.
But instead this little reserve, as well as the other
profits, is applied to paying bonuses. Apparently
the management has learned absolutely nothing
from the disaster which struck it only five years ago!
There certainly is nothing visibly wrong with the
assets now— but they looked the same way in 1891, and
yet there was something very visibly wrong with them by
1896. And the general position looks distinctly worse
now than it looked in 1891—interest is lower, the margin
between the rate of interest assumed and that actually
earned is very much less, and expenses have increased
heavily. Under these circumstances, there is all the
more need for caution, and it certainly isn’t a time to
scatter the little reserve in bonuses.
* • * *
The Australian Mutual Investment and Build-
ing Co., Limited (Sydney) made only a small loss in 1901,
for the sufficient reason that there was mighty little left
to lose, except bits of land which are practically urn
saleable and unloseable. The co. will probably make a still
smaller loss in 1902, for the equally unsatisfactory reason
that there is now still less left to lose. The accumulated
deficit has reached £212,050 and if another £20,000 goes
the whole company will be lost, capital, deposits and all.
The proceedings of the past few years have been as
under:
Loss on Loss on Accumulated
Business. Property. Deficit.
1894 £99,562
1895 £5948 £93,176 198,684
1896 174 94 198,952
1897 1161 7,740 207,853
1898 736 2,381 210,970
1899 467 92 211,629
1900 255 211,784
1901 266 212,050
The Australian Mutual Investment and Building Co. owes
£57,058 to shareholders, whose case, of course, is hopeless.
There is property to the nominal value of £19,776 with
which to satisfy nearly £175,000 of liabilities to depositors
and others. But the property, consisting of scraps and
remnants of land at ridiculous boom valuations, appears
to be not easily realisable, and isn’t likely to fetch half
the figure set against it. The depositors received 6d. in
the £ during 1897 ; Id. in the £ in 1898; 3d. in the £ in
1899; Id. in 1900, and Id. in 1901. It looks as if another
2d. or 3d. might be expected, making about 15d. in the
£ on deposits. Interest has wholly ceased for a number
of years. The Australian Mutual Investment and Build-
ing Co. was once a 25 per cent, dividend-paying affair, so
it has been celebrated in more ways than one. Nobody,
not even the new directorate, has ever been able to quite
discover how all the capital and practically all the de-
posits were fooled away. A snowball left in Cooktown
in 1893 could hardly be more completely gone than this
once great concern.
» * * •
William Jamieson, who, as chairman of the
Blythe River Iron Mines, is pushing the movement to set
up iron-making in N.S.W. (a site has been chosen on the
Parramatta River), was one of the Broken Hill “ early
birds,” and most of the time since then has been a director
of the Barrier’s biggest concerns. Jamieson was a sur-
veyor in N.S.W. Lands Department, and came near re-
signing in disgust when ordered out into the Western
wilderness ; but his chief comforted him with the sugges-
tion that it was better to have his exile in his young days
than in his gouty sixties. Jamieson, though then with-
out much knowledge of mining, became first manager of
the Broken Hill; and that opened up a way to his con-
nection with Mt. Lyell.
• * * *
The smart Howell Consolidated G. M. Co.
dropped £10,000 or so in its Junee Reefs (N.S.W.)
spec. The _ desultory discovery of small 3oz. to 4oz.
“ pockets ” in the Dusthole claim kept luring the co. on,
and these pinched out in the end. The Junee Reefs,
which are on the same gold-line as Eurangilly, Temora,
Wyalong, and Yalgogrin, have been worked over 30 years
without success. Traces of gold can be got in a dish of
stuff, taken from anywhere about the district, but only
traces. The same co. has a similar in-and-out mine at
Reno, near Gundagai.
• • • •
Block 14’s weekly report: “Ore treated, 548
tons sulphides, 207 tons carbonates, producing 280 tons
bullion, containing ll,522oz. silver.” To tear out carbon-
ates in this proportion—carbonates that are invaluable
as a flux for sulphides in smelting—is monstrous.
* • * *
The timber-men of the Eastern States don’t
seem oppressed with push. Thomas, M.P. for the Barrier,
told the Reps. how he had tried to get some of them to
inquire into the Broken Hill mine timber-supply (worth
£100,000 a year) on the spot. One of the biggest of them
said he might go up if the Govt, or someone would pay
his exes. ; and Syd. Smith, then Minister of Mines,
wouldnlt. . Others just said “Whasseuse?” Westralian
karri and jarrah men don’t drowse like this.
• * • *
North Central B.H., which, after nine years of
it, was getting pretty tired of phasing “ encouraging
prospects,” even with lead at £17 a ton, broke up when
the metal slumped to £10, though it really didn’t matter
to it whether the price was £17 or 17d. Six months’
suspension has been obtained, presumably to give the
directors time to consider what they will do with the
£1300 they have in hand.
• * • *
Broken Hill, “ratty” on the subject of trading
coupons for some time, has now developed acute mania.
An ’umble person, wanting bread and cheese, started it
going with a few pink and blue vases and a pile of glass
dishes. Then, the disease growing, a co-operative co. was
started to kill the’umble person. Next, the co-op. co.,
showing good profits (something like 200 per cent., it
seems, from the last balance-sheet), a “mutual” co.
started. It doesn’t run a vase and glass dish shop; it
only has an office where you can redeem your coupons for
credit-slips negotiable with any trader on the co.’s list—
and the list takes in even wood-merchants and rent-
collectors. Of course the Co.-op. co. and the original
’umble person respond with bigger bids; and the fool-
public doesn’t yet see that when it demands “ coupons,
please ” with its tin of sardines, it helps to keep three lots
of people in the finest clover-patch they have ever got
into.
* * » •
“H.F.T. ’ writes to this effect:—“Referring to
pars, in B., l/3/’02 re ironworks in N.S.W. W. Sandford,
of Lithgow ironworks, has already made arrangements
for erection of blast furnaces, &c., necessary for manu-
facture of iron from the ore ; has already had experts
from England; has already obtained the right to the
deposits at Carcoar and Cadia, and left for England a few
weeks ago to complete the arrangements now so far
advanced. This, too, before either duty or bonus or
demand for concessions, but doubtless anticipating the
two former. Scarcely, however, is Sandford out of sight
of Australia before the inevitable syndicate arises with its
equally inevitable aud smellful demand for a concession.
Also usual promises. It talks largely and, of course
vaguely of a million of money, lines' of railway, wharves’
whaleback steamers, and the 4000 hands to be employed.’
If concessions are to be granted, why should not Sandford
have an equal say ? Premier See says nothing will be done
without first consulting Parliament. I should think not
—the aroma of such a concession granted without Parlia-
mentary sanction would be rather unhealthy for both
See and his Ministry. As to Lyne’s arrangement—am not
in a position to speak, but guess that, if investigated, the
return of that deposit does not spell ‘ repudiation,’ other-
wise the long, loud and dismal howl of that syndicate
would have left the lamentations spoken by Jeremy
the prophet hopelessly in the rear. Moreover, your
humble servant does not notice any deposit put up this
time as a guarantee of good faith and that their whale-
back steamers, wharves, works and railways will be forth-
coming, which suggests that the present syndicate is
merely the old one, which put up the £10,000, in a new
guise, and that the return of the deposit and subsequent
developments are just a means whereby ‘ Mr. Shindykit ’
may get his deposit back and avoid the inconvenient
item of having guaranteed his bona tides to the extent of
£10,000. As for there being no other deposits of ore equal
to those on the Blythe River (Tas.), get Jacquet’s report
on iron ore deposits and see what Sandford has secured
in the Cadia and Carcoar (N.S.W.) deposits alone, and the
latter within the * inaccessible ’ distance of a few hundred
yards from the railway.
* • . *
Govt. Geologist Brown, of S. Aus., reports on
far-north Tarcoola. The gold won has been worth just a
third of the amount spent on the mines ; and the Adelaide
papers think this a splendid result considering that
the mines are yet in their “ least remunerative stages ”
The paper or the community or the 'company which
expects its mines to be more remunerative the deeper
they get is, undoubtedly, a juggins. Possibly one mine in a
thousand does “improve with depth,” but not more
S. Australian mines certainly haven’t; most of them in-
cluding the Burra and three-fourths of the gold shows and
every single one of its silver shows, have “ improved ” so
much with depth that they have had to shut up Still
Mr. Brown thinks deep sinking at Tarcoola niay be
“ taken in hand with the greatest confidence ” • and the
writer hopes it may, too.
• • * .
Be the lately-reported discovery of mineral
phosphates in South Australia : 103 tons of the rock have
been sold for reduction to manure. The average value
in phosphate was 61 per cent., with from 2 to 7 per cent
of alumina and iron. The commercial value is not dis-
closed.
. * . * * •
a Adelaide, which for a good while has been
dabbling in N.Q. tin, is just now going nap on Smith’s
Creek—a show six or seven miles from Mt. Garnet and
handy to the railway. For some tfme the syndicate will
confine itself to sluicing. Manager Potter (better known
in connection with Mt. Garnet) estimates that 28,000 tons
of 253. stuff is ready for washing. But the handling—
they will have to cart it to water —will take some of the
gilt off. There is water to be got in the neighborhood by
damming, but it would have to be pumped to the show.
* * * *
Chillagoe district added £194,600 to Queens-
land’s mineral crop in ’01—copper £150,978, silver £43,153,
lead £469. The neighboring Herberton’s tin-yield was
worth £61,040.
* • * *
Q. Mining Notes: Gympie paid one div. in
January. No. 2 S. Great Eastern seems to be the ray of
sunshine. Ravenswood very dull. Croydon moderately
ditto ; tin field there gasping for water. Croydon’s divs.
over calls for 1901 upwards of £42,000. Up to date this
field yielded £2,300,000. Opalton (Central Q.) in a very
bad way with drought, etc. Kangaroo Hills tin field,
in Ingham district, practically deserted; no water.
Oloncurry gold and copper show gone into liquidation.
That boomed Syndicate Railway hasn’t materialised, and
the milk and honey flow is not on tap. Ebagoolah, in
the far North, is considered a good thing by shrewd
miners; all they want is a railway, a coal seam and a
river. Two or three faint barks from various Mt. Morgan
puplets. Towers still “ bucking up,” and divs. and busi-
ness brisk.
• * • *
Quite a number of stumped M.L. dredging co.s
are borrowing capital to work promising claims, and the
Mbrcantilb Gazette, which chronicles the loans, shows
that some of them are paying as high as 25 per cent, for
their few thousands.
* * * •
The Phillips River, newest of Westralian fields,
got a battery talking early. The Floater and Maori Queen
have mills running ; and the Harbor View and the Red,
White and Blue have theirs ready. Besides, the Options
Co. has ordered a copper furnace, though it hasn’t too
much money to pay for it; and the Govt, has been asked
to put up a reverberatory. The lodes are a bit irregular,
but carry good stuff ; 280 tons sent East from the Harbor
View gave 23 per cent, copper, loz 15dwt. gold, 6oz.
silver.
• * * *
Queen Margaret, the Bulong (Westralian) show
which the Broken Hill crowd favored with some of
the crumbs from its table, finishes its 11th half-year with
a credit balance of £5997, after paying £3564 in divs. ;
and as it brought forward £5885 six months ago, the net
result of the half-year’s work is a profit of £3676. When
chairman Harvey Patterson visited the show six months
ago it looked so good that another 10 heads were added to
the battery and other plant was ordered; but the
directors are sorry now, for (in the nice way directors
have of putting it) “ the faces have entered a compara-
tively poor zone.” The manager puts it a little more
plainly : “ The lode is of an extremely patchy character.”
This is between 400 and 600ft. ; but, of course, better
things are expected at 700ft., and if they don’t get them
there they will expect them at 800ft.


“Orient to Pleasure” Clothing.
New Patterns of Tweeds and Serge
FOB THE CELEBRATED
63/
SAC SUITS
To Measure
OPENING.
SAMPLES and SELP‘MEASUREMENT
FORMS FREE BY POST . . .
>
r
&wm
PAVID JONES* COMPANY
George and Barrack Streets, Sydney.
THE NEW
MILITARY
FIELD GLASS.
Very Powerful. As used by
Officers of the British Army
in South Africa. Quickly
x:
Focussed. Magnifying 5 times.
In Solid leather Sling Case.
65/-, Aluminium 85/-.
WOOD, “The Optician,”
Only Address in N.S. W. —
299 GEORGE=ST. (op . Hunter-st), SYDNEY
. . AND . .
Equitable Buildings, Elizabeth-St., Melbourne.
EVA BRAHAM,
LADIES’ HAIRDRESSER,
From H. P. Truefitt, 114 Old Bond Street, London,
Pupil of Dr. Gurney, M.D., ijR.C.P., L.R.C.S., Harley
Street, Cavendish Sq., London, W.
HAIR <sc SKIN TREATED.
CONSULTATION GRATIS.
Pamphlet on the Art of Preserving the Complexion,
Hair, Nails and Feet, POST FREE.
HENNA TINCTURE for staining grey hair
——Harmless and Effectual. In three
shades—Black, Brown, and Light Brown. 3s. per case
Hair Stained from 21s.
LADIES’ ORNAMENTAL HAIR made up in all Newest
Styles. Prices Moderate.
Removal of Superfluous Hair and Chiropody by an Expert
EVA BRAHAM,
15 First Floor, Equitable Buildings
George Street, Sydney, near g.p.o.
Society
LEROY
LIQUEUR
BRANDY
The great mass of the Sydney public dreads
the plague, and yet it experiences a feeling that is
almost disappointment when it comes into town
two or three consecutive mornings and sees the
information on the newspaper bills—“No fresh
cases.” It is a feeling as if an excitement and a
gamble had gone out of life—the sort of feeling
that a member of the Suicide Club might experi-
ence when he found the club-door closed, and a
notice on it stating that the quarterly meeting
was postponed. When the plague lags very badly
a subject of interest has gone out of life, and a
valuable and creepy topic has vanished out of
conversation, and the man who was quite
sure he wasn’t frightened loses his prominence
and sinks to the level of the common herd.
For other people also cease to be frightened,
and the morbid person who found a dark and
brooding thrill in inspecting himself for plague
symptoms takes less interest in his inspection, and
the old muddy flatness settles down over the com-
munity. Any sport at which there is a chance of
somebody being killed is a big draw—of course, a
sport at which there was a certainty of everybody
being killed wouldn’t draw worth a cent. And
while the. plague is so feeble that it only amounts
to a chance of somebody being killed it is also a
big draw, and when at rare intervals the disease
makes a notable hit and sends the germ to the
boundary for four, there is a feeling that ap-
proaches to applause. Of course the feeling
vanishes if that sort of thing happens too often.
Suicide clubs have been found a great success—a
man might belong to one for many years without
drawing.the fatal lot. But a club which proposed
to. hang itself by the neck unanimously on a cer-
tain date would be a bad failure. i\
THE REHEARSAL.
“ Baby peers are to be invited to the King’s coronation,
and each will be placed in charge of a guardian. The
ceremony of the coronation is so intricate and full of
ritual that the Archbishop of Canterbury and the other
high ecclesiastics who are to take prominent parts in the
service have decided to hold private rehearsal services
within the Abbey.” — S.A. Advertiser.
The Haggis Conscience at Ballarat (Vic.)
has been outraged lately by the appearance of
that scandalous person, Prof. Rentoul, in the
pulpit of the leading Calvinistio church of the
Garden City. Many of the supporters of the
kurruk have written to the local Courier about
it, and keep on doing so in a state of loyal frenzy.
It seemed to be thought necessary to boil the
Prof. —always freezingly alluded to as “ this per-
son ” —to assert the loyalty of Ballarat Scotsmen,
and as a guarantee of the warmth of their devo-
tion to the throne and person, and their loathing
of William Wallace and Robert Bruce and other
disgraceful Scotch rebels who broke the first
British empire asunder. It is safer to deny the
Lord in Ballarat than to deny “Judas” Chamber-
lain. .
“South Africa Day ” in Sydney was a cold
an d frosty exhibition, which certainly did no
credit, as a spectacular effect, to its originators.
There were 28 contingent officers and 304 soldiers
of sorts, including 45 veterans. These marched
to the wharf to the braying of two brass bands,
and made for Clontarf. The main feature of the
occasion was the substantial supply of food for
the “distinguished” guests—from G. No-longer-
Republican Dibbs to John See and George
Dry-dog Reid. The soldiers were not ad-
mitted to the feeding part of the entertainment;
their commissioned “comrades” drew the line
there. The politicians and the officers dined
together and made glowing speeches to each other
largely about the valor of the privates, and the
privates, in a neglected state outside, bellowed for
their alleged arrears of pay and didn’t get them.
To all appearance S’Africa Day won’t be a perma-
nent institution. Those who have it in hand don’t
know how to popularise it. “ Official luncheons”
won t serve.
* * * *
“ R. A.” also describes the great function ;
South Africa Day’s procesh to the Quay the other Satur-
day did not strengthen the “ silken bond ” overmuch.
The officahs marched in front, while the degenerate
cohentingenters mouched along behind, like cheap fowls
following an expensive rooster across a stubble paddock.
A few old farm-burners paraded the footpaths, openly
scoffing, and one of them, very drunk, got mixed up with
the drum and fife band. An onlooker went off into a
fit, kicking vigorously, till four rough-handed Samaritans
took hold of him and applied remedies. The band passed,
playing patriotic airs, while the poor smitten devil tried
to bite for “first holt.” Two or three of the farm-
burners from the draggled rear stopped to have a look,
and curse sympathetically. Presently the little gather-
ing melted away, and the first South Africa Day was
perpetuated. There won’t be another—at least I think
not.
* » * *
Banquetting Gov. Havelock, in his recent
tour through Tasmania, one village committee
was horrified.to find at the last moment that not
a solitary waiter had put in an appearance. The
company were all seated before the disaster was
discovered, and the situation didn’t take long to
grow painful. The Governor pretended not to be
in the slightest hurry, and did his level best to
make it appear that he was quite used to making
a hasty meal off an empty plate. But the com-
mittee blushed to its boots, and the secretary
froze to his seat. Still the waiters came not.
Just before the whole congregation started to yell
to relieve its feelings, a couple of hairy inhabitants
rose from the table with a sigh, took off their
coats, and rushed the viands round with terrible
earnestness. Their example was followed by
others, and the situation was saved. A local big-
wig, whose politics do not coincide with those of
the village committee’s secretary, and who had
been left off the list of invitations, had previously
engaged all the available waiters. They do that
sort of thing in Tasmania to show their brother-
liness.
• * • •
- When the acting-sec. of a lately-founded
Society for Prevention and Cure of
Consumption staited t’other day to read
out the applications for the billet of
secretary (“canvassing of committee-
men to disqualify applicants ”) he
got half way through one before he
realised what it was—then he went
on to the bitter
end. It was
meant to be
an appli-
cation, but
it actually
happened
to be a let-
ter from a
prominent
committee
man advis-
ing the ap-
plicant to
ask a good
salary and
telling him
he would look
after appli-
cant’s interests
at the executive
meeting. The
committee - man
looked ,t the reader in
sorrow, and before the letter was finished, suddenly
remembered a pressing engagement elsewhere—
said engagement being probably to get the appli-
cant into a quiet place and speak to him firmly.
* * • »
Those two little girls of Melbourne, aged
respectively 15 and 14, sent to the industrial school
for burglary, exhibit woman’s remarkable capacity
for developing along the line of greatest resistance.
The innocents cheerfully confessed to 14 burglaries.
The plan of Maria and Victoria was to climb the
fence behind some shop. Then Maria gave
Victoria a back, and Victoria stood on Maria and
broke her way in through a window with a rock,
and opened doors from the inside. They must
have been at the game some time, and lots of wit-
nesses, including parents on both sides, testified to
the modest demeanor ahd apparent ingenuousness
of Maria and Victoria. This kind of dear child,
and the other kind of dear child —the one that has
a quaint longing to hang a man—always does look
doe-like and innocent. In fact, the time will come
when a girl will be liable to arrest for looking
unreasonably innocent in a public place.
Irascible Dr. Bakewell, who proses in
the press on every conceivable topic under
the sun, recently launched a fiery diatribe
against Maori art at Auckland (M.L.) Institute.
He inveighed against the spending of £lOOO in
one year on Maori curios—“the most hideous
objects produced by human beings on this earth.”
There was no beauty in them, proceeded the
rancorous critic, not even a rude commencement
of a higher art; Maoris were a set of savages
who, in the 20th century, hadn’t even passed the
stone age, and were imperfect at that. Maori
canoes and things were simply barbarous —hideous
pieces of wood chopped about. Such monstrosi-
ties he would rather have buried. A morbid
taste was growing up in Auckland for accumulat-
ing ugly, and even obscene, objects, because they
belonged to the Maoris. He was sorry to hear
that the brown race was on the increase, because
it represented a very low type indeed. This is
the most bracing language that the Maori has
heard about himself for a long while.
“Melb.”: Concern-
ing microbologous court
Bibles, communion cups,
and other sacred and in-
fected apparatus. In the
Lady Chapel at St. Fran-
cis, Lonsdale-street, Mel-
bourne, they have such a
lovely crucifix, life-size,
with the body colored to
life. There is a horrible
big spike of a nail, driven
through both feet, with
the blood congealed. It
is estimated that millions
of kisses have been be-
stowed upon that nail in
the past 30 years or so.
The mere sight of the
osculation going on is hor-
ribly fascinating. It
would be sacrilege to wash
that nail, except with
tears. Looking at it, I
think of the Saint’s hand
that was cut off and then
ran away up a wall, into
the Sanctuary, like a
tarantula.
• • •
Some men have hard
luck (this may start a
hard luck competition).
In a back-country town
dwelt a very pious man,
who taught in the Sun-
day-school and did all a
pious man should. But
one night the Devil
tempted him, and he fell,
and for that night only his
lonely home was cheered
with a woman’s presence,
and on that night, of all nights of the year, a great
flood arose, and finally he and The Other had to
take refuge on the roof. There the wretched pair
awaited the garish light of day, when a boat took
them off. When it reached dry land the whole
township, including the parson, the choir, and the
vestry, were there to welcome that saved brother,
but when they saw the unsaved sister !!! h
• * * *
One Ronald Gray, an English artist in
black and white, who lately did a trot around
Australia, has been saying, in the Morning Post,
that “ Melbourne and Sydney have spent thou-
sands of pounds in collections which would not
fetch as many hundreds under the hammer. They
are apparently happy in the possession of some of
the worst pictures I have ever seen hung in an
important gallery.” The supercilious visitor
seems to have mistaken silence for happiness.
Herkomer’s ghastly “portrait” (it cost £800) of
Queen Victoria at Melb. Nat. Gallery makes no-
body happy, although nobody thus far has heaved
a brick at it.
WHAT MAY HAPPEN TO A TALL
GIRL IN AUSTRALIA.
HE: “ May I have the pleashah?”
A N.S.W. Judge lately mitigated a con-
victed man’s sentence “ because he was useful to
the detectives, to whom he occasionally gave
information.” He was a criminal of the meanest
order, who worked “on the double cross; also,
he was a savage ruffian, and his present offence
was to break off the neck of a bottle and dig the
jagged edges into a man’s face. Sydney D.T.
suggests to the Judge that it would be better to
pay such people in cash for their services to the
detectives, and hold them responsible in full for
their brutal crimes. Meanwhile, the offender
doubtless feels grateful to his ,’Onah for publicly
mentioning that he is a police spy.
EAST AND WEST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
East of the Sun lies the world in a swoon,
Panting and parched ’neath the burning caress,
Faint with the passionate ardors of noon,
East of the Sun lies the world in distress.
West of the Moon sleeps the pale, weary world,
Heavy the eyes that the moon-god has kissed.
Dreamless as death, and with dewdrops impearled,
West of the Moon in the shadows and mist.
M.N.
Prayers for Rain.
The Ball no Question makes of Ayes and Noes,
But Right or Left, as strikes the Player, goes ;
And He that tossed Thee down into the Field,
He knows about it all—He knows—He knows !
The Moving Finger writes; and, having writ,
Moves on ; nor all thy Piety nor Wit
Shall lure It back to Cancel half a Line,
Nor all thy Tears wash out a Word of it.
And that inverted Bowl we call The Sky,
Whereunder, crawling coop’t, we live and die,
Lift not thy hands to It for help, for It
Rolls impotently on as Thou or I.
Omar Khayyam (illustration by Herbert Cole).
John Lane, Publisher.
* * * *
Pious sentiment and prompt business.
Two N.S.W. country-paper advts., printed one
right under the other:
DEATH.
SMITH.—On Sunday morning-," February 2nd, Mart
• Jane Smith, aged 44 years, the faithful wife of
William Smith, Bolong, leaving a sorrowing hus-
band and five children, also a large circle of friends
to mourn their irreparable loss. See 2nd Samuel,
12th chap., 22nd and 23rd verse, also 2nd Kings,
4th chap., 26th verse, with 2nd Thessalonians, 4th
chap., 13th verse.
‘ ‘ She has only gone home with a friend.”
WANTED.
TS7"ANTED, at once, a practical Housekeeper, 6
” children in family; youngest 8 years of age.
Christian preferred. Protestant or Catholic, if saved.
Application open this week. Apply to W. Smith,
Post-Office, Bolong.
MERRY HEARTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
All mirth is for the merry hearts ;
All Freedom for the free ;
Who loves Life’s melancholy parts
Shall melancholy be;
In being fearful, mean, or brave
No one is Circumstance's slave;
Thy spirit maketh thee.
There’s joy enough this world and after,
Whatever paths we run,
To fill our hearts with lazy laughter,
Turning our woe to fun.
Whatever you may think it worth
You never saw a greener earth
Nor knew a happier one.
Sadness is but a bended head
That looks with grief on pain;
For do but lift it up instead
And you see Heaven again !
The lamest laughter-loving soul,
Enfranchised, reaches to the goal:
Sorrow alone is vain.
HAMER.


J.D.K.Z. GIN.
♦
Messrs. JN. DE KUYPER & ZOON’S famous
Gin has been established no less than 207 years,
and to-day enjoys the distinction of being the
most popular stimulant in the world. Its medi-
cinal qualities surpass those of any other spirit—
where a health and life-giving stimulant is re-
quired it will do all that the best brandy can do,
but is much superior for liver and kidney troubles.
Those who are particular about the quality of the
liquid they take, ask for J.D.K.Z. Agents for
N.S.W,, LUCAS LOCK & CO., Macquarie-
Place, Sydney.
66
99
1
TheWiSE
iU
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers’
Gazette, and Sailing List with map.
THOS. COOK & SON,
2«9 Collins-st., Melbourne. X Hunter-st., Sydney.
SILVER STAR STARCH.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
• •
Kuppers. Elberfeld Lager.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Australia's
Leading Tonic
Beverage.
The most curious feature about the Port
Adelaide fiighway robbery case was Flynn’s alibi.
After 17 witnesses had sworn that he was in a cer-
tain place, miles away from the Port, the Crown
produced a letter written by him to a friend,
reminding her that he was in another (and quite
different) place, and asking her to swear to that.
Which shows that a prisoner should never try to
arrange a defence independent of his lawyer. The
jury found both accused guilty.
About Lawson’s guilt, nobody seemed to enter-
tain a doubt, and, when the verdict was given, he
admitted it, but protested that the assembled police
(whom he cheerfully addressed as “ sons of cows ”)
were aware of Flynn’s innocence. The man was
evidently excited, and might have said something
worth hearing, but the Chief Justice promptly
adjourned. It was then 10.30 p.m. on Saturday,
and the jury had taken from 8.10 to consider.
Three days later, Lawson was allowed to make a
long statement, in which he claimed Sparks, the
long-lost Pentridge escapee, as his fellow-robber,
and asked for the longest possible sentence, for
having been such a cur as not to speak before. He
got 20 years. Flynn’s case was adjourned for con-
sideration. One thing certain is that Myles Flynn
was not the man the detectives wanted to convict
at the start ; but so many witnesses swore to him
as the second man in the butcher’s clothes that the
police dropped their own suspect and froze on to
Flynn, who, as a “ pal ” of Lawson’s, had been
arrested for safety’s sake.
• * • •
Solemn letter to Sydney News :
Sir, —As it has now become abundantly manifest that
the recent prayers of the faithful have availed nothing in
securing the much-desired rain, would it not be well for
Premier See to carefully consider the advisability of
declaring another, and, if necessary, a third public
holiday, for the purposes of prayer, so'that there may be
no doubt that the supplications will reach the fountain
head ? If Mr. See will read 1 Kings, 19 chapter, verse 27,
he will appreciate the value of this suggestion. Elijah
said to the prophet of Baal: “ Cry aloud, for he is a god ;
either he is talking, or he is pursuing, or he is on a
journey, or, peradventure, he sleepeth, and must be
awaked.” Singularly appropriate lines at this juncture 1
—Yours, etc.,
Rain is bound to come in the long run if Sydney
takes enougli holidays. Also, it is bound to come
whether or no.
• * * *
Chief Justice Madden: “When a Victorian
husband goes to the
West, the next men-
tion of him is usually
in the divorce court.”
That is to say, the
wife writes and the
husband doesn’t an-
swer, and he be-
comes respondent
when he ceases to
respond.
“ T.W.”: Various Ballarat policemen
were called on the other day to give details of the
punishment they had awarded to an ill-advised
person who resisted arrest, and called them
names. One constable admitted that the offender
had been given “a smack in the face, but the
smack wouldn’t hurt a mosquito.” The same in-
offensive “ trap ” went on to say that his vie
that is to say, prisoner—tried to bolt out of the
watch-house (after the attempt had been made to
brush off the mosquito, of course), and Constable
Hayes chased him, with the result that they both
fell heavily in the yard. Then the other genial
individual took a hand again, and “hit the
prisoner three times, but only with the open
hand.” Apropos whereof the writer has a memory
of a night in a Sydney lockup, when three
or four jaded and cadaverous eighteen-year-olds
of the drunk-on-the-stnell-of-a-cork class were
rounded up for damaging a policeman in Hyde
Park. Over a score of Roberts were at the lockup
for the reception, and when the shivering weeds
had been formally charged, they were hurled
through an iron door into the cells, and the whole
contingent of indignant police swarmed in after
them. In the midst of what ensued one battered
desperado fell up against the iron door and
partially opened it, but he was promptly dragged
back and knelt on by three heavy myrmidons,
who proceeded to brush a mosquito off him.
There is no possible doubt that they got the
mosquito, off. And when I read about that
Ballarat policeman who reckons that he didn’t
hit hard enough to damage the mosquito. I
recognised the fact that it is a degenerate cop who
pervades our streets in these latter days.
♦ * * *
The inquiry into certain charges preferred
against Rev. Father Curran, in his capacity as an
instructor at Sydney Technical College, appears
not to have yet closed. The Public Service Board
met on the subject last week, and is understood
to have had a very interesting sitting.
An elderly Niobe, in a cream gown with
black lace embellishments and a drab toque, has
just left off adorning the Appeal Court in Mel-
bourne. She sought to uphold a maintenance order
against her present partner, Pehanegay (no less)
Don Hendrick. The lady’s marriage ventures had
been frequent and, she alleged, mostly unlucky.
She started with one Saunders, in England, when
she was 15. Saunders seems to have faded away
indefinitely, and died some 17 years ago. But
the lady consoled herself in the meantime. First
with Bryers, a gentleman who served her family
with meat in England. Bryers, she said, married
her for her money, and ran through £lOOO in less
than no time. He seems to have wandered away
after a strange goddess, and to have disappeared
for a great space. Anyhow, she last saw him in
Bourke-st. 30 years ago, with a lady whose looks
exceeded her virtue. Bryers appears to have been
a bad egg, for, at the recollection of his
villainy, his relict wept copiously and entertained
the court with a long dissertation on his sins.
Next she married Crossley in 1888. Crossley got
an extended engagement breaking stones for the
Government, at rations only, and that was the
last she had seen of him. Here the semi-relict
wanted to tell the Court all about Crossley, but
was providentially choked off. The last dip in
the lucky-bag brought up Pehanegay Don Hen-
drick. Niobe assured the Court that words
failed to picture “his ” badness. As the weepful
lady was dodging about between Bryers and
Saunders and Crossley and Hendrick nobody
seemed to know which “ him " it was, but mostly
it was Bryers. Bryers must certainly have been
an exceptionally bad egg. Then a witness came
along who said he had witnessed both marriages
with Bryers—the lady having married that repro-
bate twice over to make quite sure she had got
him—and also that the gentleman died but two
years ago. Just there a staggered Court said it
didn’t see where Pehanegay Don Hendrick came
in, if he came in at all, but it would go home and
put a wet towel round its head and consider the
matter.
* * • *
“Mind you take care of Dick, and get
that embrocation rubbed into his chest,” wrote
the fickle intended bride in the Molong breach-
of-promise case to the plaintiff’s sister. The jury
did rub embrocation into poor Richard’s "chest”
—to the extent of £l5O.
THE POOR BANK-CLERK.
A bank regulation prohibits an officer from marrying
until he is in receipt of £2000 a YEAR.-ITEM.
SEXAGENABIAN : “It gives me much pleasure, my
dear, to announce to you the intention of my
employers to raise my — ah—income to the
necessary £200 per annum; that, coupled
with my impending old age pension, should —
um — ah—enable us to start life very com-
fortably.”
The latest gory Yarra-bank happening has
points out of the common. One Michael Lynch
casually strolled into Carlton police-station in the
small hours and stated that he had cut a lady’s
throat down the road somewhere, and threw out
a general sort of invitation to the company to
follow him and see the exhibit. He then led the
way to the entrance of the Melbourne General
Cemetery, Carlton, where the woman was found
with her throat cut almost from ear to ear.
Further than that he had done it, the self-accused
could give no particulars. He stated that on
leaving home he had put his razor in his pocket,
with the intention of cutting his own throat. But
(after drinking a bottle of beer) he met “ his girl,”
and they went for a walk in the cemetery instead.
They were sitting on a seat on the main drive
when, as accused put it, “ the thing happened.”
The police believe that Lynch, wno had been
suffering from delirium tremens, “became strange
in his head,” and, having committed the butchery,
fell into a stupor for several hours and only knew
of his deed when he came to. But Michael can’t
help the theory at all. To him the dead body of
his best girl just “ happened.”
Victorian “drummers,” many of them,
make a point of carrying a
long rope in their baggage
when they visit the coal
townships Korrum-
burra and Leongatha.
Some of the hotels there
are mere tinder-boxes,
and the weary drummer,
as he lies in his bed
upstairs dreaming
of conflagrations,
can hear the
boozy coal -
miners at the
bar below strik-
ing matches far i
into the night.
So for fear of I
accident, the
practical busi-
ness man ties one
end of his rope
to the bed-post,
and leaves the
rest of it coiled
ready on the
window sill be-
fore kneeling to
pray. Sinners
who never think
of prayers any-
where else get into
the habit of ad-
dressing a few re-
marks to Heaven
before turning
into bed at a
wooden pub.
* *
A new Eng-
lish Act forbids
publicans to sup-
ply liquor (except
in sealed bottles) to
any child under 14.
Various ingenious
persons have already
announced that they
will camp outside a
given pub. every
evening and all the
evening, and go in
for the “supper beer” (a great English in-
stitution) when the child comes for it with the
usual jug. Another development of the awful
middleman.
* • • *
There were some mysterious points about
the death of Jessie Shallcross, Reuben Newbigen
and a dog, whose bodies were found lying under a
hedge in a remote Melbourne suburb. All three
had succumbed to an overdose of strychnine. On
the man’s breast was a pencilled note saying he
had taken his own life, as he was better dead ; on
the girl’s, a similar epistle, stating she had gone
to the Hereafter “to avoid bringing shame on her
family and friends.” It looked like a case of
mutual suicide, until Dr. Neild deposed that the
girl was perfectly chaste, and there was no
“ shame ”of that sort in the case at all. Several
witnesses stated that, though the two had “kept
company ” for a while, the morbid Reuben was
distasteful to the gay, light-hearted Jessie, and
she had tried to get rid of him; yet she had gone
with him, on the Tuesday, from Carlton by rail to
Camberwell, thence three miles out into the
country, to the paddock where their bodies were
found. There were no signs of a struggle, and
apparently they had tried the poison on the dog
first. They had taken return railway tickets.
Death occurred on Tuesday night, but their bodies
weren’t found till Friday morning. Nobody
seems to have made any remark about the girl’s
disappearance; and nobody at the inquest could
say whose was the dog or where it came from ; in
fact, nobody seemed to know anything at all. It
is part of the Melbourne plot against N.S. Wales
that, in the southern city, people seem to die with
a lot more mystery than in Sydney.
Plague-smitten Sydney has the consolation
of knowing that Melb. undertakers are complain-
ing bitterly of the badness of business. “ Give us
this day our daily dead.”
* * * *
A venerable gentleman, who rides daily
into Sydney by tram, neither reads nor talks. He
spends his time mentally calculating how much he
would advance, were he still in business, on the
clothes, watches, chains, and other property of his
fellow passengers. His verdict is that Sydney has
fallen away sadly in its clothes during the last
dozen years.
In future, domestic garbage is to be col-
lected in Sydney by night, and Mayor Hughes,
to ensure a minimum of noise, is arranging to
haye the dirt-carts rubber-tyred. But as the loud
and incessant talk of the typical garbage-man is
as bad a trouble to the would-be sleeper as the
rumble of his cart, it is to be hoped Mayor Hughes
will also rubber-tyre the tongues of the Town Hall
pilgrims.
HOLY HYGIENE!
SHE (to new-chum servant): “Swallowed a fly,
have you, Mary? Well, my girl, don ’
stand there looking for all the world as if
you were stuffed; swallow some boiling water
AT ONCE and scald the animal .”
Melbourne Hospital committee Has duly
inquired into itself for sending a delirious patient
to the gaol hospital, and has promptly acquitted
itself without a stain on its character. The
patient, it transpired, was imprisoned on a charge
of “insulting behaviour.” Charging a delirious
fever-patient witli insulting behaviour is an idea
which in comic opera would be worth £52 10s. In
the management of a hospital it should be worth a
few indignant sackings,
* * * •
A week after the orthodox N.S.W. clergy
had prayed for rain without getting any, a
Chinaman turned up at Sydney E. News office to
S ay that his countrymen had been praying to Joss,
w j lo had promised to give them an inen of rain
next morning somewhere about 3 o’clock—and sure
enough nearly an inch came , The Little Boy from
Manly, a rank materialist who regards the Joss
that praises an inch of rain and gives three-
quarters of an inch as more profitable than the Joss
who makes no sign, now thinks of taking into his
SPrv ; Pfl a Chinese nhanlnin 6
a ° hmese ° ha P lain -
THE NOTE RAT.— "ACTEN.
ME WITH THE CHEESE.
OLD GOT.
The editor-compositor-canvasser on a way-
back educational medium writes up the “grand
show” made by the new butcher’s shop down
street: —
The verandah was tastefully decorated with greens, in
the centre of which was placed a photo, of the late Queen,
calling up sweet reminiscences of days gone by. Amidst
the decorations was hooked on what we might honestly
term the golden beef and silver mutton, for such it looked
while glistening in its own fat, especially the lambs. In
the centre of this was pork of all sorts and sizes down to
lovely young suckers in splendid condition. Entwined
about these were sausages of every description, thus
making the show complete. . . . Over the whole scene
the Union Jack was waving.
And all this for a two-inch standing advt., cost to
be taken out in meat!
A RAISON D’ETRE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
God made the roses, white and red,
“ They surely are most sweet," she said.
God made the glory of the light—
Most beautiful it was, and bright.
He made the mountains and the trees,
Bright birds He set, like gems, in these 1
Unsatisfied He was, withal,
And made sweet sounds and musical.
And yet He longed, His soul to please,
A form transcending all of these.
And so made thee, a form divine,
God’s own ideal, O love of mine !
THE WANDERER.
MY CURSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Night-Winds shriek like consciences oppressed
And flashlights of the Past go flitting by,
Of all the throng that will not grant me rest,
One stays behind and haunts my sleepless eye.
“ A man—a woman—whispering fearful Love,
Dark bushes round; the moonbeams slanting
through
Like fingers that might clutch the two apart—
Her passion—glinting eyes like sunlit dew,
Cold selfishness concealed within his heart.”
And more ! Oh, Curse that binds my soul in bars!
That makes an aching Hell my nightly doom !
“ A woman sobbing—prone—’neath naked stars l
A lover, slinking, dingo-like, through gloom."
VIC.
MATCHBOX.


IF YOU WOULD . .
“ Standjon Jetoet”
MARK ROY’S
10s. BOOT
A Combination
Of COMFORT,
NEATNESS
and
GOOD WEAR
is
What You Want!
V'-M
Do you like Coffee ?
Perfect, Pure,
Fragrant, Exhilarating Coffee
Then Try
T.* H. SMITH’S'
Gold
Medal
Coffee Essence
THE VERY BEST
Australian Representatives:
SWIFT & COMPANY,
SPRING STREET,
BYDNEY.
V
V
m
az
ess
mr
All Drapers Everywhere^
That crown that we hear so much about is
throwing its glittering influences over most every-
thing m this Empiah. The most swagger color
for a winter gown is royal orimson, ticketed
coronation,’ whereat brunettes will rejoice, for
the dark beauties have had a streak of bad luck
lately with so much black and purple about. The
crown itself, in the official badges of the R.N is
a brand-new shape. The old crown, in Queen
Victoria s day, was a depressed little head-piece
with a dent in the top, like a bashed-in boxer hat,
but the new badge shows the ‘ Tudor ’ crown, an
inflated and haughty-looking object with much
red velvet visible, and pretending to emeralds and
rubies on the brim, c '
Talking of love letters written for publication :
From the mass of sickening stuff, local and
imported, there stands out of the ruck one book
(imported) smart and amusing, “When Charlie
was Away.” Charlie is the writer’s husband, and
her letters are addressed to her man cousin. Of a
play with which she is dissatisfied she writes : ‘ ‘ An
epigram ought to spring from the situation like a
hjy * rom th® bulb, but all the smart sayings in
this play are sewn on like sequins. They glitter,
but you can see the stitch.” And again: “We
are told that men are devils. They are not.
Resist the devil and he will flee from you. Don’t
resist a man. and he will flee quicker than any
d®vil>” _ Writing of her husband she says:
Charlie never made love to me. The third day
after we were engaged he read Macaulay to me.
I sat on one end of the sofa dying to be kissed, and
he read me about the Bloody Assizes. I wanted
to lay my head on his shoulder, and lie kept telling
me how Monmouth laid his head on the block.”
Burgeon Thomas Fitzgerald passed through
Sydney last week looking none the worse for his
labors at the front (and his subsequent pleasure
trip). He was a great favorite with the Brasseys,
and was always called in when Governor Brassey
fell off things. There was no one in Melbourne
could repair the part of him that Brassey fell on
to as Fitzgerald could. As he is very fond of dogs
he must be a good sort. Often of a Sunday when
he yearns for a morning in an arm-chair he goes
fora long walk just to please the dogs, who sit
round him asking him with paws and eyes to
come. His wife died of consumption many years
ago, and Rumor has grown tired of remarrying
him to smart widows and brainy passd spinsters.
Latest portraits of Amy Castles make her
rather.Dutoh-faced. Her hair-dressing is at fault,
and aids the Queen-of-Holland effect. Round-
faced Edna May wears her “glory” in the same
fashion, but her expression (expression has to be
reckoned with in ooiffing) of demure gravity is so
different from Amy’s jolly, good-natured aspect.
By the way, what can be the cause, and whence
the source, of the disparaging newspaper pars,
that are cropping; up in Australia since Amy
Castles’ Australasian tour was announced ? All
the metropolitan press of London, dailies and
weeklies, hailed her after her first concert with
scarce an “if ” or a “ but” as a risen star. The
Times spoke of her as one whose studies were to turn
her into one of the greatest singers of the world.
Her execution of florid passages ” (invocation
from “ Les Pecheurs de Perles ” under
criticism) “was accurate and brilliant, the high
notes up to D. in alt ringing out with splendid
power and sweetness.” Same paper, in its sum-
mary of the year, said, “To Miss Amy Castles,
an Australian, the highest honors are likely to fall,
since in addition to a lovely voice of Melba-like
purity the singer has modesty and a capacity
which are all too rare in debutantes.”
Most of the critics counselled further study.
None of them said the girl was a finished singer,
and she makes no pretence of coming out here as
such. But one would think from those paragraph-
pricks that some “ London correspondent ” was
an £fT that Amy should have the front to come
out here before she was fat and forty-five, know-
ing her art perfectly, but showing where the file
of time had rasped its music. An ex-Melbourne
woman writer now in London wanted to “run”
Amy in that city, and is now most inkily angry
that the damsel prefers another runner and the
new world—which to Amy is the old.
S.M. Herald’s “fashionable” marriages are
rather entertaining. It has taken to chronicling
the weddings of persons of whom we never heard
before under the title of “ fashionable” in type as
big as it will use when it announces the capture of
De Wet. And the people of whom we have heard
are very sore about it. If the marriage of Jane
Smith, tenth daughter of Mr. Smith, of Sydney,
to Mr. Brown, of London, be a fashionable mar-
riage, how shall a marriage of, say, a State
Governor’s daughter and (perhaps) the son of a
belting earl be announced ? (An earl was charged
at a London police court with belting his wife,
lately).
Charitable and philanthropic Mr. J. S. Harrison
dropped dead last week whilst working in his
flower-garden. He was well-known in financial
circles, and had been auditor to the Bank of
N.S.W., and was connected with the firm of
Harrison, Jones and Devlin. But he was chiefly
known to the public through his long connection
with all sorts of charitable institutions.
A friend sends me a London paper containing a
few pictorial examples of Mrs. George Fitz-
George’s mode of rejuvenating the middle-aged
and imparting the secret of eternal youth to the
young. Mrs. George Fitz George is a daughter-in-
law of the Duke of Cambridge, and she has opened
an Institute of Beauty, an offshoot of the parent
house in Paris, only she labels her treatment the
Georgian method. Her own portrait shows her
as a very pretty young woman. The lady patient
who is undergoing treatment for a double chin
looks as if ready for electrocution. If you wear
the india-rubber collar and mask for one hour
daily for eight days your double chin will
disappear, and you may have a neck like those
seen in our grandmothers’ books of beauty. The
bandage that cures wrinkled foreheads is a thing
with strapsand buckles,and when in position looks
exactly like an instrument the Inquisition used
to squeeze secrets out of its victims. And under
the Georgian method roundness is restored to.
hollow cheeks by the wearing of what looks like a
patty-pan over the time-excavations. And, as for
noses, if you don’t like your Napoleonic nose, or
your snub, you can have it altered to the “style
piquant.” But at this one’s faith falters; I
cannot imagine Private Secretary Wallington’s or
Dean O’Haran’s noses lending themselves to
“ piquant ” alteration, no matter how often those
gentlemen sat in the institute of beauty. As for
obesity, the Georgian method cures that in two
shakes of a Manx cat’s tail. There is room in
Sydney for a branch of this beneficent institution,
for in this city you see more fat and double-
chinned persons than in other cities of the
Commonwealth. The climate destroys the desire
for exercise, but does not lessen the appetite.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“One of the peculiarities of the Australian is
his desire to drag his Governor all over the
country at the slightest provocation. Lately
a narrow-gauge railway was opened from Colac to
Beech Forest, and accordingly new State-
Governor Clarke was dragged out of bed at 6 a.m.
and hurried over 140 miles by a special train.
Arriving at the terminus of the new line, the
party had to alight on the permanent way, wade
through two or three hundred yards of slush in
blinding rain, and sit down at luncheon under a
marquee that proved not to be water-tight. The
spectacle of a damp representative of Royalty
chasing a wing of turkey round a plate full of
rain, and trying at the same time to keep the
water from running down the back of his neck,
never struck anybody as strange, and nobody even
laughed when his varnished chair became firmly
attached to his damp trousers when he rose to
make a speech. After the luncheon, the local
residents hauled the unfortunate representative
of the Crown out into the rain to see a big tree,
felled, and when the mighty stick came down it
raised a shower of mud that overwhelmed the whole
official party and left Gov. Clarke’s vice-regal
countenance encased in a mask of mud. Then
H.Ex. told the Beech Foresters how glad he was
to have had an opportunity of seeing their beauti-
ful district, and went back to the train to spend
three hours in wet clothes on the return journey.
Let us not be too hard on the imported Governor.
He has to graft for his living sometimes.
“All the women enthusiasts at the opening of
the Polo Tournament on Monday (3rd) sported
red and green gamps. Rain-showers periodically
sent the timid in under tarpaulin cover, and
played a tarantelle on the ’brellas that braved the
downpour. It was a dull, dark-habited crowd
that damped itself in honor of the ‘ muddied oafs ’
at the goal. The green crowd waved its verdant
gamp for Geelong, and the blood-stained red
umbrellas waved for Melbourne. Lismore and
Colac had less-defined supporters, with umbrellas
of no color in particular. The surprise of
the day was reserved for afternoon tea, when
from a hansom an alien poloist appeared
with a golden-haired dazzler, who rustled with
such a wealth of black silk pettiooats and silk-
lined costume that the whole tent staggered and
trembled on its circumspect pegs.
“ Wednesday’s continuation of the Tourney was
not only dry but sunny. The Moonee Valley
course fairly bristled with activity. Toorak
thoroughbreds sent the dust of the long drive
whirling to the blue sky. Mrs. Norman Bayles
drove her flash dog-cart. The L. S. Maekinnons
were the only ones to tool a four-in-hand and raise
a bugle-blast. Lady Hutton, accompanied by
Captain Dangar, made a dignified entrance. The
golden-haired, square-backed dame achieved a
good effect in a biscuit voile with matronly re-
minders and sobering black embellishments. A
hat and gingham repeated the biscuit and black
tones. Captain Dangar is the fat lion of the hour.
“Mrs. Roy Greene, in a spotless white muslin,
many coral strings, and a hat of smart build, went
near to taking the ‘ bun ’—if that victual hadn’t
been washed away in the first day’s rain. Miss
Ethel Guthrie, who has been doing the cricket
season to the detriment of her complexion,
adorned the premises in white linen with
severe clerical stole-ends, or tabs, and with
a twist-loaf hair arrangement on the neck
Miss Anderson, the dimpled sister of Mrs. E.
Manifold, also wore her hair neck-ways. It’s not
a becoming style. Mrs. Pursey Chirnside was too
neat and tape-measured in her grey outfit and deli-
cate blue toque ; her style begins to border on
shop-girl neatness,
“ Mrs. Tom Fairbairn looked like a dishevelled
Christmas doll. But her troubles as long as things
are humming. Miss Hilda Cumming reflected on
Nature’s bounty in blue, and a back-built hat,
showing one large, solitary pink rose on the crown.
A pink, silk goffered petticoat seemed of more
importance than the blue linen skirt which was
hoisted at half-mast all day. Miss Armytage
wore her fair thatch in voluminous puffs, on the
topmost mast of which sat an erratic recalcitrant
hat. Although the teams fought for the Madden
Cup, none of the family watched the fight.
“ The ‘ World of Flutterers ’ went disconsolately
to the races on Tuesday, because an uncertain sky
of threatening greyness tabooed the brightest rai-
ment, and the autumn frock, which it impera-
tively called for, was not in readiness. The most
common compromise was a trellised muslin and a
three-quarter cloak. Miss Muriel Williams ap-
E eared on the terrace like a ship in full sail—all
er sheeny black and white bull’s-eye rigging
coruscating in the gradually-brightening noon.
A black hat of shady character (this literally) was
set veil-less above a brown rim of tresses. Another
showy figure was Mrs. Harry Levy, from Plague-
ville. The rather captivating and confident young
dame seemed to set a high value on the hang of
her black voile skirt with its velvet ribs, the swing
of her unlaced figure, and the poise of her pink-
millinered head.
“ The fair Palotta had an hour of shining con-
quests on this Tuesday at Flemington. Coming
in tow of the broad-shouldered Surgeon O’Hara
sand his pale background of a spouse, Grace, in her
Autumn rig-out of chocolate-cloth and saucer hat,
blue-rimmed, soon starred it on the rather unin-
teresting Terrace. An interesting quartette at
one time on the Flemington flags were Nellie
Stewart, Manager Musgrove, George Lauri, and
Carrie Moore. * Sweet Nell ’ struck a note of her
own in dove-grey, a dressing-jacket affair over a
trained skirt, and a grey hat with a corrugated
rim and a flight of sea-gulls.
“The most persistent admirers of Carrie Mnore
must admit that the little one is more fit for a
health-resort than for the stage. She wears her
own complexion by day, and that is sallow, or
rather of a pale coffee-color. It doesn’t boast a
streak of red, even in the lips. The eyes in day-
light lack lustre. The face is thin and old. Clever
Carrie is over-doing it. She hasn’t an inch of
flesh to spare above the covering of her bones, and
she really ought to take a rest. People had to
take a second look before they could believe that
the delicate wisp of a thing that went round with
smug-looking Lauri was the popular Carrie, of
Her Majesty’s. She was clothed tiredly, too, and a
strawberry-pink felt hat on her badly-dressed head
was the least-becoming shade she could have
chosen.
“The Gymkhana crowd at Moonee Valley, on
Friday, steamed in the face of a north wind, but
the sound of revelry ran high and frockers fought
strenuously for leadership. Lady Clarke came with-
out the spruce Guv’nor, and her pleasant smiles
were spilt over the whole gathering. A modest
black and white foulard with cheap lace trim-
mings, a net ruff, and a black feather hat scratched
the wife of the Guv’nor for the dress race. Miss
Sydenham Clarke had not a ghost of a chance
either in the contest. Her unpretentious green
Japanese silk frock was of the simplestdescription.
Hows of green sea-shells were her only ornamenta-
tion and a toque that has seen much active service
was in keeping with the somewhat infantile attire.
A much handsomer study in black and white was
Lady Hutton’s rich gown, touches of lettuce
green adding a cool effect. A wide-brimmed hat
was filled in tastefully with green, black and white.
Another noteworthy person—John Forrest’s wife
—furnished a contrast in the crude blending of
heliotrope and pink in her dress, and the glaring
lilac hat that called further attention to the color
disaster.
“ Their Superior Exes., the Hopetouns, returned
to the public walks of Melbourne’s life on
Monday (10th), when they put in the afternoon at
the Kooyong Polo Show, and the evening at the
Mayoral shivoo. Sassiety puts on an extra f. ill
or two, and crimps and manicures a point more
when the greater Exes are on the scene. Not
that all the crimps or curlings in the world would
count an iota in the regardless eyes of the re-
frigerating Countess.
“ You ought to know the latest style in boots.
Perhaps you are aware that the one-toed is dead,
and the specimens that adorn the boot-shop win-
dows now would comfortably allow at least three
toes inside their points. Even women are having
broader toe-caps, and, when they appear in san-
dals, pancakes aren’t a circumstance to their feet
for flatness. Sandals, however, are trippy, slippy
things ; and a still newer notion is on sale now,
a kind of shoe with criss-cross leather-straps for
uppers, called ‘chulpies.’
“ Mrs. George Chirnside, who, a few weeks ago,
was good enough to confer a daughter on this
sparsely-populated region, made a graceful reap-
pearance in a smart black skirt and short sac
jacket of tucked white glace silk—the newest of
its kind. A flat black-and-white hat was set
cunningly on large waves of fair hair. For once,
Miss Iluby Madden looked ‘off color,’ —the
summer has left her less plump, less rosy,
less dimpled. Sister Lesly, in blue, and
Mrs. Osborne, in green linen, formed the
Madden batch. Col. Campbell was in com-
mand. Conspicuous about his dress was a
Paddy-green tie. One of the daintiest of small
pocket-edition women was a young squatteress
m a cream skirt, heavily piped about the
hips, and a heliotrope muslin blouse innocently
buttoned up the back. O, these matrons that are
buttoned up the back! Mrs. Willie Manifold
was the bonniest of the Western district convoy,
in white muslin and a vivid green hat.
“Mr. George Lorimer was the hero of the
gymkhana day. He won three trophies—or
rather one, two going to his racy wife. The Lorimer
pair are of the horse, horsey. Once Mrs. Lorimer
was mannish, hard in the wrist and mouth, and
addicted to dickies, tailor-built suits and straw
deckers. Then, one day, the small still voice of
Wisdom spoke, and she became Womanish (this
is not a Pale Pill advt.), took a healthy interest in
frills and furbelows, and fell into line with the
rest of smart Womanhood. Mrs. Lorimer’s chief
prize was for manufacturing the funniest dummy
of the day. In the obstacle race of the day, Jim
Osborne, the well-worn trophy-taker, fell in the
ruck for once. He was burdened with ‘ Sweet
Nell, ’ and was so occupied in keeping her on the
neck of his mount, that he lost pace and lowered
his record. ‘ Sweet Nell’s’ white-stockinged legs
were a cruel libel on the queen of comedy.
“ A feature of the gymkhana show was the
number of girls who went about snap-shotting
the polo players and their dummies. These smart
girls have no humor. They went about “taking”
tb# perspiring poloists, while some of the best
‘ mixed pairs ’ going were left unfocussed in the
quiet rear of the tents.
“The last silks and roses of the declining
summer bloomed on the Flemington terrace last
Saturday. It was a balmy day, just sufficiently
breezy to blow out the chiffons and laces. The
meeting was Governor-less, but great in size for
the season of falling leaves. Mrs. Ernest Raleigh,
who has rung the most changes in frocks this car-
nival, was betimes with a brown and pompadour
mixture, the brown skirt trimmed over the hips
with diamond-shaped patches of velvet, the top
part made of strips of silk and treacle-colored lace
—something new and strange in autumn trim-
mings. A hop-green velvet hat struck a note of
contrast with this dress of the day. Mrs. Lawson
stepped out with Rupert, and showed one of the
smartest figures and frocks of the day—a black
voile, saved from melancholy by piping of blue.
More blue stood by the head-rigging.
“ The Madden girls were nowhere in the con-
test. Mrs. Harry Osborne put on 20 years to her
age with a large flowered middle-aged blue
foulard. It was a sacrilege of fashion. Mrs.
Frank Stephen, back from summering somewhere,
was up to the tick of the clock in a black and
white check, tabbed and stitched over the hip
line, finished with a ruff, and having for a top-
rung a knowing toque of blue with a large soft
pink bow astride the crown. Miss Hilda Cuin-
ming was a pattern of pleasant comeliness in pale-
green foulard, a feature of it being flapping shoul-
der revers of a rose-patterned chiffon. Grace
Palotta, in tow of matured Othello Kiddle (father
of the frocky Rita Kiddle) and the me lical
O’Haras, strutted her hour in a rich rig-out of
black silk veiled in chiffon, with many lace
dependencies thereof, and sundry pink applique
pancake decorations. Her big biack hat was veil-
less, and her hair, which looks chestnut than
of yore, became unruly, so that the tossed Jocks
spoilt the picture. ' '
“Of the other Circes of the limelight, Nellie
Stewart led by an easy length. She was less
erratic, more the dressy divinity of this 1902
world. A skirt revelled in a succession of real
lace flounces on a richly-scrolled net; and a blouse
of old gold and white effects had insertions and
frillings of real lace. The reddish-gold (something
like 100 carat) hair was twisted and plaited and
coiled in an indescribable way on the down hill
slope of a head, on which tottered an immense black-
feathered hat. The three other dazzlers of the
day were Florence Young, in bright, ink-red
foulard with lace interpolations, and a waist that
defied all the mandates of Frockland ; Blanche
Wallace, in billowy black, all frills and laces and
restrained sheen ; and Elsie Moore (another
“Runaway ” light), in the cornflower-blue dress of
the day, and a white felt hat built up with more
blue. Manager Musgrove never parted with his
gloves _ for a second. He wrote in them, shook
hands in them, lost and won in them, went home
in them—is probably still in them. >
“When this is printed the Hopetouns will be
back at Govt. House, after their holiday on a
station near Ararat, rented from a widow of the
Chirnside clan. The thin-blooded Gov.-General
doesn’t care for the breezy sea-side or bracing
mountain-top, preferring the dry, solid heat of
Western-District summers. His younger son was
born nine years ago at that same station and that’s
why Pa paid Ararat A.N.A. the compliment of
proffering them “ Charlie-boy,” as an honorary
member. Offer was accepted (I believe), there
being no age-limit in the case of honorary mem-
bers ; but is it a safe precedent ? If A.N.A.
parents follow suit and take to thrusting forward
infants as small-sized Nationalists, branches must
sooner or later cope with the creche question.
“ Mayor Gillott, ere this is printed, will have
entertained the Hopetouns at a big conversazione
in the Town Hall (March 10th) by way of welcom-
ing them back to town. They could do with a
little house-warming, too, I guess. The Big
House has looked very gloomy in their absence,
with most of its shutters up and sad memories of
young Savile-Gore’s last illness clinging round it.
He brought back typhoid when he returned from
Westralia with his Chief, but he always looked
rather fragile, with the sort of delicate, flushing
and paling complexion that goes with a weak
heart. Only 26 years old, the only son of his
military father and with property, at the time of
his early death, worth £26,000, he had more
reasons than some people for clinging to life.
Perhaps ‘ that’s the very reason he was took,’ to
quote a pessimistic old body, who earns her crust
by nursing (tenderly enough) the sick poor of this
neighborhood. With regard to her patients, she
has a dismal way of saying ‘ Oh, he won’t be took,
he’s too hard-up,’ or ‘ she won’t be took, her
’usband treats ’er too bad,’ or ‘ they'll never make
old bones with 11 kids dependin’ on ’em.’
“ The Hopetouns had arranged for their regret-
ted assistant private secretary to be buried in
Melbourne cemetery, but at the last minute word
came that the bereaved father wished otherwise.
So the funeral-service was held all the same, and
then the undertakers ‘ took charge of the casket
pending its departure for England ’!
“A packed, enthusiastic house made much of
Nellie Stewart last time I sampled ‘ Nell of Old
Drury.’ The Naicest are taking ‘ our
Nellie’ to their fickle bosom again. She wears
more clothes than in pantomime, of course, and
the fact that she now represents a character of
worse moral standing, so to speak, than poor
Aladdin is merely a matter of detail. Dowager
Clarke and her diamonds fronted the d.c. that
evening. Raleighs and Fiskens filled one box,
and nice young girls, platonically interested in
Conductor Bertie Zelman, were plentiful in the
front stalls. So were fair, fat, golden-haired
charmers, who gloated on the Gwynne gowns in
intervals of worshipping their own flowered-
brocades, set off by miles of needlework in the
shape of tucks, ruches, and skirt-panels of goffered
white chiffon.
Yours affectionately,
AEENEHI.


(itizeilS’liifelnsurance Company [imited.
Premier Industrial-Ordinary Office of Greater Britain.
POLICIES IKT FORCE EXCEED 224,000.
IMMEDIATE SETTLEMENT OF CLAIMS.
Absolute Security.
Moore and Castlereagh Streets,
Sydney.
Annual Bonuses
Rksident Secretary,
W. J. BLOOMFIELD, 8.A., LL.B.
Related was it of Jay Gould (?) that hia
handwriting was so bad as to be illegible to the
old man himself. A letter of his replying to an
application for employment on one of his numerous
railways was on the strength of the signature
used by the recipient as a pass over the line for
many years. In later days the typewriter lias
done much to prevent fraud and mistakes
formerly traceable to bad writing. Had J.G.,
like The Bulletin, used a “New Century”
machine his reputation as a letter writer would be
better to day. New Century Typewriters, the
latest from Yankee-land, are sold only by the
United Typewriter and Supplies Co., of Sydney,
Melbourne and Perth.*
‘Lightest Wines in Australia.
Supplied to H.R.H. the Duke^of^York^
PERSONAL ITEMS.
N.S.W. Minister Crick is back from
Maoriland, where he made a strong impression.
The people of those parts had never seen a
Minister like him before.
Think of barrister Lilley, son of the late
Democratic Chief Justice of Queensland, standing
for Maryborough as a Phiipite ! How the old
warhorse must turn in his grave !
About the most disquieting piece of news
with regard to the outbreak of plague in N.S.W.
is that Dr. Ashburton Thompson has returned to
resume control at the Board of Health offices.
Cardinal Moran and Rev. Dill Macky are
agreed upon one point, that mixed marriages are
an abomination. But they differ violently as to
which end of the mix the abomination starts at.
A relic of Victoria’s first elected Parlia-
ment passed over the other day. G. W. Johnston,
who died at Kyneton, aged 91, was elected mem-
ber for that town as far back as the remote and
inaccessible fastnesses of 1856.
Meteorologist Wragge is lucid on the
drought puzzle:
Physical factors, with cosnncal law, most distinctly
operate, and we look for the clue resolving the dry
weather problem primarily to solar physics, and
secondarily to ice distribution in the Antarctic.
As an example of the folly of throwing
chances away a recent suburban municipal bye-
election would be hard to beat. There were two
candidates each having two votes. One voted
for himself. The other didn’t, and was beaten by
one vote.
The recenc statement by one Bundaberg
editor that the other Bundaberg editor’s paper
“ reeks jwith the stink of the polecat and glories
in shame,” is a mere circumstance alongside the
statements made by the latest Sydney 3d. paper
about its detested enemy, the editor of the 2d.
paper. To say nothing of actions for criminal-
libel, surely some more pistol-practice looms out
of the Sewer Feud.
The Late JOHN LUCAS, M.L.C.—A familiar
Sydney street-sight of long ago.
Late John Lucas had been, giving him his
dues, a man of some weight in the community in
more ways than one. To old John, the State of
N.S W. partly owes the Chinese Exclusion Act
and the Jenolan Caves Reserve, whilst the city of
Sydney was indebted to him for the Belmore Park
Reserve. In fact, 25 years ago John Lucas was
a useful Radical: but he wasn’t able to keep up
with the times, and towards the end was as
Conservative as he was stout.
Melbourne news item :
Geo. H. Reid was yesterday fined 10s. for obstructing
traffic in the city.
Possibly some simple old gentleman teaching his
dry dog to swim in the gutter.
The real Chamberlain •
With Ms stunted figure, his mfgainiy stride, his pro-
trading head, his concentrated look, and the eternal big
cigar in.his mouth, he is little or nothing like the con-
ventional caricature or photograph.— Chambers’ Journal.
King O’Malley, the grotesque of dress
and speech, rarely, if ever, imbibes fire-water ;
but, as a canvasser for the Equitable of N.Y., he
will shout till—well, every man in the crowd is
insured in his office, or dead, or oblivious.
Sydney D.T. persists in caricaturing C. C.
Kingston as a ramping, raging fool-person. Mel-
bourne Argus, though also a Freetrade paper,
takes a different view. Thus :
Mr. Kingston makes a powerful leader—good-humored,
alert, eloquent, tireless.
A Lilydale vigneron, crawling
through a wire fence t’other day with the usual
loaded gun, emptied the charge into his right foot,
In the last few years the same man has, on different
occasions, broken three ribs, his left leg, both
arms, his nose, and his left thumb.
Bishop Parry, the death of whose widow
is reported from London, was born in Govern-
ment House, Sydney, in 1830. He was educated
in England, but had the offer on one occasion of
being Bishop of Sydney. He became instead
Suffragan Bishop of Dover, the only holder of
that office for 300 years.
Two sons of politicians and a M.P. re-
ceived commissions in the S.A. contingents for
S’Africa. One of the former has fewer qualifica-
tions for the position in the eyes of the troopers
than he apparently possesses to the thinking ot
the Federal authorities.
Miss Guthrie, an Australian lady, com-
mitted suicide in London last week whilst enjoy-
ing the hospitality of Rev. Thomas Spurgeon and
his wife. A spinster of the least suicidal ten-
dencies is likely to grow tired of life if she stays
long enough under a Baptist minister’s roof. And
this writer has heard, Thomas preach ! !
Premier Philp, prosecuting his first elec-
toral contest, rode his horse through the Barron
River with his clothes strapped on his head. The
river was in flood, and a naked Philp got across half
a mile of troubled water. Now an older and fully-
clothed Philp is trying to get across half-a-million
of troubled deficit with much less success.
Cabled (as if Australia cared !) that “the
vacant Garter has been conferred .mon the Duke
of Bedford”—a person apparent’’, only known to
anybody as a rich landlord. Vacancy conferred
upon vacancy. Who was it that said, “There’s
one thing I like about the Garter —there’s no
d d pretence of merit about it.”
The mild-mannered W. G. Spence spends
nearly all his time in the House of Reps, copying
out hundreds of pages of MSS. At rare intervals
sympathetic friends, like Deakin and Brown, are
privileged to read a chapter or two. ’Tis said
that Spence is writing a book, largely dealing with
Socialism and the abolition of competition in
industry.
Bishop Stuart, brother of late Premier
Stuart (N.S.W.), expects to take some missionaries
with him on his return to Persia. He was Bishop
of Waiapu (M.L.), about a dozen years ago, but
preferred the heathen of Persia to his local flock
—which, by the way, was at the time very slow
with its stipends. Dr. Stuart will spend some
months in Australia, having a 12 months’ leave,
and is enthusiastic over the prospects of Ispahan.
Sydney’s most distinguished and hos-
pitable gourmet is an eminent dentist, a superb
amateur chef, in whose library are
hundreds of cookery-books. He
once entrusted a servant with the
preparation of a huge English
nam, intended for the entertain-
ment of friends on a very special
occasion. She boiled it until the
bone came out. The gourmet actu-
ally wept —for the first time in 30
years.
If Jenkins, the American gentleman
who runs S.A., were to go to the Corona-
tion he would attend as an alien, for his
letters of naturalisation have no force out-
sido the Commonwealth. In the pre-
Federation days he ceased to be a British
subject directly he crossed the S.A.
border. Ex-Attorney-General Hotn-
burg, who has just resigned the leader-
ship of the S.A. Opposition, is in a
similar position.
“The Ballarat Old Colonists
Club ” recently wrote to Lord Salisbury
telling him he could become a member,
as in tne early days lie was
on the Bendigo goldfield.”
The chib waited with confi-
dence for a gushing reply.
But Salisbuiy is not Cham-
berlain ; he has some dignity
and not the same ideas of
puff. The reply (from his
secretary) simply expressed
Salisbury’s “ regret that he
is unable to accede to the
request.”
lie “ Fatmen ” and
others: Philp, the syndi-
cator’s friend and boss of the
Boodle wraith, is lean and cada-
verous; whilst Seddon, who used
to put some democratic ideas into his laws, is a
Sabbath day’s journey round the waist, and if you
want to go twice round him it is best to take a
cab.
The latest about Arthur Streeton is that
he has painted a portrait of Mrs. Maesmore
Morris, the Victorian beauty, for exhibition at
the Royal Academy. Some people never will lay
to their book. So long as the clever Streeton
addressed himself to pumpkin-patches on the
Hawkesbury of his own country he was on the
real road to fame.
“Rolf Boldrewood ” (T. A. Brown)claims
to have been the first man to sell fresh beef on
Ballarat (Vic.) in the digging days. He made
money rapidly for a little while, but he hated the
gory cow-steak, and disliked the “mire and
misery ”of the diggings, so he sold out. Boldre-
wood ever afterwards regretted that he had not
stuck to the business and made a pile.
The three Rutledges, sons of the Parra-
matta schoolmaster, take the world from different
points of view. The Rev. Woolls, who was
elected president, the other day, leads the
Methodist flock; the Rev. Doctor bosses an
Anglican church, and Attorney-General Arthur,
battling in Queensland politics, leads the Devil’s
Brigade in particular, and wobbly politicians in
general.
Died last week, aged 81, Oswald Curtis,
for nine years Superintendent of Nelson Province
(Maoriland). He sat in the House of Representa-
tives for eleven years, and was once a Minister —in
Stafford’s tempestuous Ministry of 1872, which
lasted one month and a day. Curtis was a cour-
teous old gentleman—so courteous that once, when
he had a big political meeting on, and R. S. Smythe
arrived suddenly with a conjuring show, he post-
poned his meeting to avoid damaging the show
business.
Editor Croft, of Gulgong (N.S.W.) Adver-
tiser, who was struck for libel damages in the
matter of one Hilton, has decided not to pay up,
and will take out a year’s confinement in Mudgee
gaol. He is writing a prison diary. A brother
editor from Mudgee is sending his meals in from
a hotel. The local priest and parson supply him
SENATOR “HONEST
TOM ” PLAYFORD.
with books, and friends turn up every day to have
a chat through the bars. A philosophic spirit and
a careful selection of your gaol help a man through
many troubles.
Hock Shung, the Chinese who communi-
cated to Sydney Evening News the intelligence
that the local Joss had arranged for rain, and
would send it in a few hours, which prophecy was
duly fulfilled, is well-known on the cycling-track,
and is a sport with no end of an Australee
vocabulary. “ You see,” he said, “we made a
dead bird of it. We got two priests on the job,
separately, and, when they both got the same
answer, we knew it was good enough ; see ? ”
And Hock’s dead bird poured heavily next morn-
ing, as promised.
Departure of Cardinal Moran should lift a
load of anxiety off the shoulders of the two rival
N.S.W. R.C. organs. One or other of these was
always getting a pull on the other by suddenly
printing some remarks that the Cardinal was a
Chrysostom and a Demosthenes, and a Solon
rolled in one ; then the other had to feverishly
exploit its classical dictionary to balance up
next week with some more beautiful analogies.
The constant swinging of the censer must have
proved wearisome. And now there is Blessed
Rest.
A lately-deceased M.L. trainer desired to
embrace the R.C. faith before dying, but was
unconscious when the priest arrived, and remained
so till his.death. The priest consequently declared
his inability to conduct the burial service of the
R.C. church. Anglican parson said he was in a
similar position ; he couldn’t conduct the service
in the Catholic portion of the cemetery, but offered
to read it either in his church or at deceased’s late
residence. This appears to have been objected to,
and ultimately the Mayor of the town, himself a
racing man, read prayers at the grave-side. How
particular these sects are.
DON’T PRAY FOR RAIN—DAM IT.
The only lady who has ever been accused
(writes The Bulletin’s London correspondent)
of being engaged to Lord Ketchener has got
married to someone else not in the meat trade.
She is Lady Helen Stewart, daughter of the
Marquis of Londonderry; the “him” is Lord
Stavordale, heir of the Earl of Ilehester. Ketchener
was a good miss for Lady Helen—she is said to
have jilted him because of the universal asper-
sions cast on his war-doings. Though physically
a fine specimen of the ruthless fighting type,
Ketchener always suggests an essentially-useful
chucker-out.
Anthony Anderson, aged 63, sole survivor
of the aboriginals of Birchip (Victoria), was
solemnly presented with a brass chest-protector
the other day by the Birchip Shire Council. The
plate bears the quaint legend : “ King Anthony
Anderson, of Birchip, Morton Plains, Donald,
and the surrounding district.” King Anthony
Anderson ! King of Donald and the surrounding
district! And there were two shire councillors
and a long dog with short legs present at the
coronation! Premier Peacock was not in the
least distressed about not receiving a royal invita-
tion, and has made no disturbance whatever re
the “sovereign rights” of the States. A vast lot
the most fanatical Jingo cares for royalty when it
has nothing to give !
The name of Howard Spensley, once (for
five months in 1871) Solicitor-General of Victoria
under Duffy, was mentioned in London Ba ik-
ruptcy Court in connection with Whitaker-
Wright’s disclosures as to the squaring of the
financial press over certain company-promoting
transactions. Spensley married a rich Victorian
lady who owned Melbourne Royal Arcade, and a
romantic little adventure which attended a vi fit
of his to Australia some years ago is still fresh in
the memory of the Melbourne public. He has
lived in London for many years, and has, it
transpires, been a part owner (with one Brousson,
of Labouchere’s Truth), of a city print named the
Citizen. Brousson was the man subsidised by
Wright.
“Melb.” : Pastor Fitchett, of the butchery
books, attains the pinnacle of glory, his zenith,
apex, and apogee, by getting elected President of
the Methodist Conference. The things liiat
absorb the mind of an ordinary Methodist cl -rgy-
man are polished off by Fitchett with the mere
fag-end of his intellect. A very small carpet sack
contains all his needful supply of creed and sect,
while the magazines of his mind, the useful store-
houses, are occupied with the Review of Reviews,
and all the worldly concatenations. Other Metho-
dist parsons have to go on weary itinerations. He
can stop where the big money is made. There
would be a row if one of the small ecclesiastics
opened a hay-and-corn store. Fitchett could open
a public house with impunity.
One of the sights of the recent levee held
by Victorian Governor Clarke was Premier
Peacock in a Windsor uniform. He walked out
of the public buildings where-he has his office (and
evidently his wardrobe as well) one mass of gold-
lace trimmings. A stately sergeant of police strolled
along at his side, while Peacock himself held his
cocked hat in his hand and puffed volumes of
murky smoke from a well-blackened pipe. He
smoked all the way up to the reception rooms at
the Exhibition Building, handed his lighted pipe
over to his policeman, did the usual hen’s scratch
before His Ex., slid out and took up his pipe just
where he had left off. Peacock possibly thought
the,democratic pipe would atone for the ridiculous
and crawlsome Windsor toggery. His mouth
puffed Radicalism ; the rest of him was solid Tory.
Mr. E. G. Fitz Gibbon, of the Melbourne
Board of Smells, has issued an open letter
in exceedingly bad Irish Scotch to Mr.
David Syme, which makes entertaining reading.
E.G.F. accuses Syme of pursuing him with
relentless malice, and prints one or two stories :
When George Paton Smith was yer sub-editor, ye
devoted yer first leading article to me, an’ made me oot
to be a blate fule. That same day yer same sub-editor
cam to me in Collins-street, an’ said : “ You think X wrote
that article ? ” I said : “ I do.” He then said :“ I pledge
you my honor I did not write a word of it.” Anal
answered : “As you tell me so, I am bound to believe
you, but if you had not, I should have said you wrote
every word of it.” Some time after that I was in company
wi’, amang ithers, a mon wha haed been a neebor o’ his,
and news cam to us that he was dead, an’ the neebor
said: “ Ah, poor fellow ! He and I lived next door to
each other on the Cotham-road, and many a night he has
been in my house, and many a night I in his, when he
dictated and I wrote his leading articles, which enabled
him to say he had not written a word of them.” Dauvid,
that sub-editor was worthy o’ ye.
The Vic. Govt.’s selection of comparatively
young man Tate to guide the hand of the puerile
Gurr in the Education Department is bound to
provoke bitter resentment among the score or
more of antediluvian inspectors and red-tapeists
who were senior to him. A rumpus was raised
once before over Tate’s rapid advancement, and
he was temporarily banished to fill in time some-
where in the backblocks. But, even while super-
vising the frowsy mind of Mary Jane in the bush,
Tate stood out so conspicuously from the mediocre
crowd who held the snug metropolitan billets that
he was recalled by Education Minister Peacook,
and given control of the training college. That
aggravated the seniors badly, and now the threat
that a mere boy of 39 is going to root a few of
them out is dust and ashes and a Good Friday
diet of salt ling to them.
“ Elijah ” Dowie, the Man with the Purple
Wings, now states that he has been spiritually
assured of immortality. Many a creed hsa
split on that same foolish rock. There was
once a sect of Immortals in England which
hung out on a farm. The ladies of the
sect all wore short skirts, not because they
were ballet-dancers, for they weren’t, but
to keep their tails from getting muddy in
agricultural pursuits. One rich lady-
believer, who put all her money into
the sect and kept it going, did the
hardest and muddiest work to show
that she was not sinfully inflated by
her wealth. The funds ran out, how-
ever, and the mortgagee took the farm,
and the poor, short-skirted sisterhood went to
pieces.
A member of N.S.W. Supreme Court
Bench withstood, lately, a pressing invitation to
take office in a Masonic Lodge. He advanced
the proper theory that a Judge should not be
bound by a secret oath. It were well if Judges
generally patterned by this. Chief-Justice Griffith
is Grand Master of the Freemasons Order in
Queensland, and delights to have it known—quite
a sufficient reason why other Australian Judges
should stand out.


m
w
BULLETIN SUBSCRIBERS
Soa re unable to read small printed matter, or to see fine
stitching or writing, whose distant vision is dull and who suffer
nia'v rA«f lStent I ,? a 'ti aC | ieS ° r pains aftor close application— you
ay rest assured that you are suffering from Ageing or
Vision, and Heed Glasses. You should^visit
"Vn, 6 our Slght scientifically tested, and be sunolied
vith Glasses adapted to your individual case.
’■vasarer" ,iBht - '»ssssr.s u -
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Consulting Optician,
371 George St., Sydney,
next door to the A. J S. Bank.
King- and George Streets.
And at 232 COLLINS ST„ MELBOURNE, opposite Age Office.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors.— ln the ease of ethnological and
natural-history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific value.
More trouble :
Dear Bulletin. —Re the bell-bird. “HJ M ” (B
22/2/’O2) is evidently laboring under a delusion ’ Who
said the bell-bird was a minah ? I did not. I stated that
■ The bell-bird (crested orivica) was not to be confused
with the bell-bird of Gippsland, which is correctly termed
the bell-minah.” I use the term “ bell-minahon the
authority of Robert Hall, author of “ Insectivorous Birds
of Victoria,” whose knowledge of the fowl of the air can-
not be denied. I merely tried to refute a statement, on
the same subject, made by a previous correspondent. As
to size, color, general habits, &c., I could have' told
“ H.J.M.” all that, and more if necessary.—O.H.G.
PIECRUST PROMISES.
GAOL CHAPLAIN (who has taken an in'crest in
B. 24s case): "My good girl, when you
come out I will endeavor to make an honest
woman of you.”
B. 24: My bloke said that , but he never done it.”
One Sydney parson in his prayer-for-rain
sermon struck a new line when he said :
A little reflection suffices to show that the droughts of
pre-historic times were sent by God for a definite pur-
Pose. It sometimes happened'that there was no food in
the blacks’ camps, and the gunyahs were the habitations
or starvation and bitterness, but God looked in mercy
upon the black man and sent a drought, and caused the
herbage to fail and the young gum-trees to wither.
Then it came to pass that the kangaroos became too thin
and weak to escape out of the range of the boomerang,
an 1 the rock wallabies lost their agility and fell a prey to
the nullah and the spear, and soon the camps were re-
dolent with stews, and thus the black man’s wants were
provided for. Who then shall say that the hand of God
is not discernible in a drought ?
J. he idea that God starved one set of his creatures
so that they would become so feeble in their
misery that another set of His creatures, also
miserable and starving, and consequently slow on
their feet, might totter successfully after them
and eat their fleshless bones, is ingenious, to say
the least. And a drought takes a good many
months, or a year or two, to reduce the kangaroo
to the state above described. So, by this theory
the Lord looked down on the hungry nigger and
miraculously sent him food in about eighteen
months. A Charity Organisation Society is faster
than that.
* * * •
Dear Bulletin. —“ Why swaggies don’t
peddle?” (8., 3/8/’01.) Easily explained. The
police would say they stole the goods; the squatters
would call them loafers; the buyers would beat
down to minimum, because “You’ll only spend it
in drink ; the cookies would expect goods for
tucker and a doss, as well as a “little present for
Cissy ; and their (swaggies’) mates would say.
You re wuss ner a booted Syrian.” There! But
theres a dodge vacant: produce a rolled-gold,
double-enamelled Pretorian loot-trinket (cost in
morocco case, Is. 6d.), and it raffles for £1 to £5.
(Wrinkle patented by Scotty W.)
Queensland is attracting a host of settlers
from the Victorian mallee. Most of them have
sold everything, and begun the lurid journey to
the tropics in caravans. Their chief reasons for
this step is that land _ may be had reasonably in
Queensland and that it does rain at times It
never rains in the mallee now. Still the move
looks rash. Writer knew a selector south of the
mallee who sold out for close on £2OOO, bought
new horses, waggons, and other conveyances
then set out for Dubbo (N.S.W.), loaded up. He
got there a bit greyer than when he started
dropped the £2OOO, and finished up on a patch
of white sand and whip-stick west of Swan Hill
In his declining years he used to tender this
advice: “If you must sell the farm, spend the
boodle in a thnp to Limerick; hang Dubbo ! ”
* * * *
“ Werrimee ” on the wild-dog question
* T O w e ! tr t> UC ii ion , di . n g° es - .A great mistake of most
iN.b.w. S.P. Boards is in refusing to accept any but the
yellow scalp and brush; even requiring that these shall
De irom the same animal and be connected by a strin ol
skin off back and neck. Wild dogs are now of all colors,
and in the North-West the black and black-and-tan are
the moot destructive to sheep. They are also more
, b . e ,?^ se boundary-riders and scalpers won’t
trouble to kill them when there is no reward in store.
What is wanted is that the dog-registration law shall be
moie rigorously enforced, particularly in the back
country ; and that every dog found wandering unaccom-
panied by a responsible person be considered a wild dog
the destruction of which shall carry the same reward as
m the case of the true dingo. The objection that in such
case unscrupulous persons would probably breed for
scalps could be met by a heavy dog-tax and a stricter
administration of the Act. Every scalp, not that of a
registered dog, should be paid for on the principle that
the nominally domesticated animal, when at large, is as
destructive as the dingo. In paying for the destruction
ot one dog because its color is yellow, and letting an
equally obnoxious animal go scot free because it is of
some other color, the Boards are simplv wasting public
money, and fostering a breed of mongrels that is a
menace to the pastoral industry.
* * • *
In a sanctuary near Auckland, a Maori
convert, called Hauraki Paul, was once
delivering a cadging missionary address.
Paul was a shining light of the crushed
and suffering order—the kind that has
gone through much tribulation for the
good cause. Commencing in a very
agitated manner he asked for the sym-
pathy and prayers of the congregation
on “behalf of my dear wife whom I
had to leave at a very critical time.
‘The parting was a (great trial to us
both.’ ‘ She-^-she’s—in fact, she’s”
(pause, and in an impressive whisper)
“ she's going to have a young ’un.” Paul
meant well, but his stock of polite
phrases had given out. Consternation
fell on the audience, and everyone
made heroic efforts to keep a straight
face ; but an irrepressible titter began
in the back benches, and gathering
volume, spread with a roar to the front
pews and overwhelmed the lady organist
as she faced the crowd. Her fearful,
stony, deaf-dumb-and-obliviousglare broke
up under the pressure, and hastily stuffing
her handkerchief in her mouth, slie turned
her ba,ek on the people and buried her face in
her hands with such a shriek of merriment that
even Paul began to think he had said something
extra. &
* * * *
“ E.S.S.” : Variety of color in the progeny
of brown rabbits (“ Wallah,” B. 24/8/’01) is no
indication of exceptional increase, nor is it in any
way special; but, of course, variations are more
observable amongst a multitude. With rabbits,
black, blue-black, tan, and sandy are the most
common divergences from the normal brown, but
brown-and-white and black-and-white are occa-
sionally seen, and are generally much bigger and
fatter, but less hardy, than the rest. The albino
rabbit snow-white, with pink or violet eyes—is
rarely met with amongst the wild stock.
* • * *
“ Achtaen ” : “ Cobber ” (B. 24/8/’01) is
wrong about mutton-birds laying only one egg
Ihey always lay two-white, and about the size
and shape of large duck eggs. These are usually
laid about-24th and 25th Nov., and, if then col-
letted, are palatable, but are no good afterwards.
Many wagers are laid on these occasions as to a
man s egg-eating capacity. I once lost a bet that
another fellow could not absorb 12 dozen at a
sitting. He did it, having first fried them in
Vinegar, ihe oil from the young birds, as well as
being good for consumptives, is a good machinery
lubricant, and is also much used by tanners. The
risk from snakes, when collecting eggs or chicks
is mostly imaginary. I only know of one case of
snakebite in eight years. The old birds, though
very swift in flight, have such long narrow wings
that they cannot rise from the level, so that on
leaving the nest they have to run along the ground
until they can drop off a ledge, and thus get their
wings to work.
“Barwon” : (8., 15/6/'01) Anenfc immer-
sion of dogs m water for cure of snake-bite. Mr.
o. Hazlett, of Craigmore, near Walgett (NSW)
had a fox-terrier slut bitten by a black snake! He
kept her m the Barwon river for hours, and
though dreadfully swollen she recovered only to
snake m ° nths after to the bite of another
* * • *
“ Pelican ” : On the Clarence (N.S. W )an
aboriginal never died—even if the tribe had ocular
evidence of, say, a tree falling on the unfortunate
except by the magic of an evil-doer in a neigh-
boring tribe. After the corpse was planted, a
relative or close friend would haunt the grave
about sundown and, sooner or later, would see a
churrigurri.” A churrigurri was not a common,
ordinary ghost {that gentleman was called “cooin-
booia ). It was the other self of the destroyer,
come to gloat over the grave of his victim. The
watcher never failed to identify the dernaterialised
one ; and straightway the tribe would sally forth
to demand retribution from the supposed offender’s
tribe. I his was never refused, and should the
owner of the churrigurri be absent, the first
straggling buck of his tribe would do equally well
asa victim to propitiate the departed.
BUT IF ALL HADN'T GONE WELL?
"That night the members of the Federal-capital site inspection party will go to bed
in their berths on the train, and, if all goes well, they will be in Yass when they wake
up in the morning.— ARGUS account of proposed itinerary of Senators in search
of a capital.
CHORUS OF LEGISLATORS IN TOPHET AFTER THE RAILWAY ACCIDENT:
“Good Heavens! is this Yass?"
“ F.L.G.” : Re “ H.S.’s ” remarks on the
dugong (8., l/6/’Ol). Possibly Cambridge Gulf has
a different species to that from Port Darwin and
Patterson, but those found here (P.D.) can hardly
be described as “ smooth-skinned,” the body being
covered with coarse bristles fin. long and scattered
from Jin. to lin. apart. There is no outward
trace of hind limbs. Rarely are more than two
found in company. The tusks are 4in. to 7in.
long, but seldom protrude more than jin. from
the gums. These may possibly, in some bygone
ago, have been formidable weapons. The local
nig. is not particular where he spoars the beast,
mil P rov ’ f } ec * *he gear holds, the result is the same.
The blacks probably learned the use of the line
from white men, as formerly they used only the
hand-spear. Also, here no lubra is allowed to
even see the body until cut up—much less eat
any of it. To do otherwise is supposed to injuri-
ously affect pregnant women. I didn’t know
the hides were of any value, and should be glad to
get address of buyers of “dugong products” if
prices quoted are correct.
• * • *
A'bdul Wade, the Afghan, has the
monopoly of the carrying at Mt. Garnet, and the
Chow monopolises it at Herberton, Coolgarra,
Irvinebank, etc. It is quite an every-day occur-
rence to meet 30 or 40 mules in charge of a Chow
along these roads. Billjim, the mighty teamster,
is practically extinct in these regions, and, instead
of his cheerful curse upon the highways, a thin
voice calls out in a strange lingo “ Whaffor?”
* * * *
“ J.S.” : Recently spent a few weeks in
sweet and fragrant Cairns (North Queensland).
The great feature of Cairns is China-
town, and the great attractions of
Chinatown are the Chinese lot-
teries and the Japanese ladies.
Both institutions are in full
swing and good working
order from early morning
till midnight. Little Miss
Japan (there’s about a
dozen of her), with Oriental
patience, sits all day in
the doorway of her dwell-
ing-place, reading strange
books backwards, knit-
ting or sewing, with a
bright smile and a pleas-
ant “Goo’ day; how are
you?” always ready for
the strange passer-by. If
one stops, this is fol-
lowed by a modestly-
whispered invitation to
“come insi’.” Chinatown
is conveniently situated
right in the centre of Cairns.
All Cairns gambles. Give a
child threepence or sixpence
to buy lollies with and it
will go and “mark a tic-
ket.” Also, the spare six-
pences of barmaids and
servant girls go in mark-
ing tickets. Pak-a-pu
is an ideal gambling
game, enticing, sim-
ple to play, and
seemingly easy to
win at. The odds,
in round numbers, are
about a billion to one
against getting a decent win.
When someone wins a few
pounds it is a nine days wonder,
and all Cairns discusses it, while
the “heathen Chinee” now and then des-
patches. a few boxes of sovereigns to China.
Yet this game is permitted where good, honest
old “Tatt.” is not even allowed to advertise. If
two, or three bushmen start a small game of “two-
up ” in the street, every policeman in the place
falls over his feet in his haste to disperse the
crowd. and stop the iniquitous performance.
There is truth in the legend that in Cairns they
lift their hats to a Chinaman ; and it is not to be
wondered at when the authorities, presumably
seeing in the Chow a superior being, grant him
privileges that are sternly denied to the inferior
white man.
• * * *
“Riverina”: A lot has been said about
horse-butchering by policemen. A lot could
also be said about dog-butchering by the same
body. In our little Riverina township a trooper
essayed the assassination of an unfortunate
pup. He shot at the animal and succeeded in
knocking off an ear and otherwise mutilating it.
The pup escaped, but was brought back to face a
second shot. Again the charge only mutilated,
and the poor brute was eventually drowned to end
its sufferings. This policeman is a returned
cohentingenter. Now how—in the name of Seven
Devils—did a man who couldn’t shoot a tied-up
pup at short range in two tries, pass the shooting
tests for S’Africa ?
Dear Bulle-
tin. — Re water in
the Victorian
ma 11 ee. Where
does the water that
falls in the catch-
ment - area of the
Darling’go? Look
at its enormous
extent: from
Bathurst, in
N.S.W., to War-
wick, in Queens-
land, and west to
Landsdowne, on
the Barcoo (they
have a dam there
on the Waid, an
affluent of the
Warrego, whence
one can see the
Barcoo river, two
or three miles
away). All the
water goes toward
the Darling, but
only a small quan-
tity reaches the
Murray. From
Bourke to Went-
worth, about 500
miles by road and
1400 by river,
there is not a single
watercourse. All
the raiu that falls
is swallowed up by the crab-holes on the black-soil
plains. Also, none of the water that overflows from
the river in flood-time goes back to the river again.
rL he ™ y P ossib,e get-away for the water is under
the Murray and the mallee country. That water
is there, at a depth—oceans of it—l am certain.
Ihe great springs of fresh water in the sea on the
coast of western Victoria I believe to be simply
the missing Darling water.— Duncan M‘Thellak.
• * * *
On the Esplanade, in Cairns (N.Q.), re-
cently, 24 Hindus were camped, with their mis-
cellaneous assortment of rags, billies, and flapjacks.
Women talked and joked with them. Suppose 24
white men camped there, how soon would they be
moved on? Truly, the ways of the Continuous
Dovt. are not understandable.
* * * *
Thurla : Have seen a carrier when
loading whisky-cases, drop one end on to another
case, so as to badly jar the bottles. Usual result, a
broken bottle and a leakage through the packing,
the escaping liquor being caught in a billy. Of
course it would be a case of “ accident in transit.”
* * * »
Bob R. ” : Sic transit : On a southern
N.S.W. station a returned cohentingenter in full
kharki rig -hat, puttees and all—is mustering
sheep for the shearing. Romantic ending of a
warrior s dream.
• • * •
Governor Le Hunte tells how whooping-
cough, taken to Papua by
European children from
Cooktown, devastated native
villages. Le Hunte tells fur-
ther how native superstition
aggravated the evil, for—“As
each village is attacked,a sor-
cerer is consulted ; some un-
fortunate village of another
tribe is called the culprit, and
a midnight massacre of inno-
cent people is the result. ”
THE BOERS’ COMMISSARIAT.
SMALL BOY (pointing to painfully thin specimen
of Australian soldiery): “ Wot’s the good [?]
’IM goin’ ter the tear.”
“ Why?”
S.B.: "Cos's does wouldn’t fit no ’clthy Boer ,
that’s why.”
“E.J.F.”: Re effects of ring-barking. A
great deal of the West Bogan country has been
ringed and scrubbed within the last few years
and a phenomenal coat of grass is the result,'
making one acre worth about as much as eight
previously were. Also, if ring-barking affects the
rainfall, mattock and ax© hav© only to b© disused
for a few years and West Bogan will produce the
same class of ram-making timber as formerly
* * * *
“ Walrich ”: Re earless pigs. On Buc-
k l U , n f"^i? t ;. ltion ’ pP.Marra Creek, I once shot an
old (wild) boar winch had no ears, and no sign of
them. On each cheek was the shape of an ear
in black hair, while the rest of his head was white
Can any Bulletin reader explain? If the ears
had been torn off when the pig was young there
would surely have been some trace of them left
OUTSIDE O' GOYDER’S LINE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A cloud of dust at noonday,
And dimly seen behind
A team of six gaunt horses
And a plough—the usual kind.
A man, unkempt and sunburnt,
With whiskers like a vine—
A God-forsaken “ cockie,”
Outside o’ Goyder’s line.
For years—in fact, so many,
That to count he’ll soon forget,
He’s been ploughing up the country,
And he’s got no crops as yet;
But still, like Vanderdecken
(Who for ever ploughs the brine),
He’ll keep on and on till Doomsday-
Outside o’ Goyder’s line.
S. A.
M. J. O’HAIR.


TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
jfd
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUiD
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Kemoves Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing. Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
~ . ,nv| g°^ in g Hot Climates.
Kestores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
J
SHIRTS.
For Station anti Out-door work our Silk bTuiPd
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/ per HaW-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia,
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE
“ Jaymac ” :
Re bush hermits’
lives (“Sox,” 8.,
8/2/’O2). I knew
an old digger in
New England who
used to bathe regu-
larly in a strong
solution of wattle-
bark. He always
walked to the
claim backwards,
and came home
sidewise with his
left shoulder
pointing towards
the humpy. He
concocted divers
herb -mixtures,
and always ate his
meat (beef, and
about 31b. of it
per day) absolute-
ly raw, with much
mustard, pepper
and salt. He read
the Bible aloud
every night for
two hours, and
died intestate,
worth £BOO.
“ Max ” : Cannot let the ’roo-lapping
water controversy die out without having my
say. “H.J.Mc.” is a solid, deep-thinking prao
tical man; that is, he thinks the same as I
do. Near Torrens Creek, North Queensland, re-
cently, I found a perishing “old man” with his
legs caught between saplings laid over a shallow
well. Gave him a drink out of an old tin that
was lying there, and he drank the full of it twice
(about three quarts). Am prepared to swear on a
Bible—a book which I have seen for sale in a shop
up here— that he did not lap. Then lifted some
of the saplings, took the ’roo by the rudder and
dragged him out. When he found his sea legs he
showed his gratitude by trying to come up and
hug me. Didn’t want his too profuse expression
of thanks, so smote him on the brisket with 81bs.
of rock. At that he took the huff, and put up a
record for a quarter of a mile. If anyone disbe-
lieves this yarn I can show him the well; it is
there yet, and perhaps also the tin and piece of
rock.
* * * 9(1
“ W.T.G.” : lie carriers “ tapping ” casks
(B. 5/10/’01). Usual plan is to bore a hole in the
cask about lOin. from the bottom with a gimlet
and then drive a nail through the top, withdraw-
ing it to let the air in, when the liquor will flow
out below. A plug is afterwards driven into the
hole and cut off level. Then some axle-grease is
applied, so that it would take a sharp eye to detect
tlifi spot. Knew an old carrier who, on a trip
with beer for an out-back pub., “ tapped ” several
casks and varied the usual plan of treating all he
met by selling the beer at 6d. per large pannikin
full. Of course some of his customers “ blabbed,”
and he got into trouble.
“Kob. ” :
Re the fierce-
ness of the
tiger-snake.
Two mates
were cedar-
getting on the
Mary River
(Q.) A big
cedar was
felled across a
deep gully,
and while
walking along
the tree to see
what length
of log could be
got out of it,
one of the men
noticed a snake
on the trunk
up near the
limbs. Instead
of bolting, the
snake made for
the man and
he knocked it
off the log with
his axe. It fell
to the bottom
of the er ull y
but up it came
again on to the
tree, and again
it was knocked
off. A third
time it re-
turned, and
then the man,
in striking at
it, overbal-
anced, and
fell with it.
A libel-action, or at the very
least a shooting-case, ought to
arise out of the Molong breach-
of-promise trial, considering that
the Australian Star, the
N.S.W. Govt, organ, of which
Premier See is chief shareholder,
printed the above as a likeness
of that amiable and by no means
uncomely young masher, the de-
fendant's solicitor.
Before the snake had time to pick itself up the
other man squashed its head with his heavy boot.
* * * *
“Jeff.”: Re strange night-experiences
(B. 24/8/’01). On the old South Coast Road, Tas.,
between Hythe and the next settlement the road
goes over a double-topped hill, and you cannot
cross the “saddle” at any time, day or night,
without experiencing a curious cold “creepy”
feeling. If you are riding, your horse will break into
a wild gallop. Local residents used, if travelling by
night, to take another track, and of late years the
road has been abandoned altogether. The only
supposedly collateral facts are that a pair of
leg-irons were found there and that 50 years ago
Hythe (then South Port) was a veritable convict’s
hell.
THE MOLONG (N.S.W.)
MARY LOUISA McNEVIN
(now Mrs. H. S. Carr, defendant).
BREACH-OF-PROMISE CASE.
RICHARD YOUNG COUSINS,
plaintiff, awarded £150 damages.
Concerning’ Mr. and Mrs. Carr and
Another.
The moral of the Cousins-McNevin-Carr romance,
as related to the public by a N.S.W. breach-of-
promise case, just concluded, is: When you win
the consent of your rustio heiress, marry her on
the spot, avoid the city and the miscellaneous
company of an hotel, and, above all, keep the
enterprising commercial traveller off the grass.
Otherwise lie will “ book the order,” sure.
Richard Young Cousins, of Heytesbury Park,
Molong—a member of one of the pioneer families
of N.S. Wales —was born to see to the ploughing
of modest acres, to ride and train a horse, and to
shine in the local quadrilles among the rural fair.
His state in life was modest, though not exactly
lowly. At the age of 27 he wooed and won the
“great lady” of the district, Mary Louisa
McNevin (variously stated in court as being aged
between 38 and 45). She was the only child of
John McNevin, of Cardington Hall, an unen-
cumbered holding of 20,000 or more chocolate acres
on the banks of the Bell River, valued at £50,000.
Tall, robust and generously proportioned, Miss
McNevin was a remarkable figure in Molong.
She could spring upon the tallest horse on the
station and handle a spirited team with the
crack whips of the country. And she would
ride or drive through the loneliest road .on
the blackest night untended and untroubled.
She managed _ the station and directed every
sale, purchase and arrangement, and under
her control Cardington Hall prospered splen-
didly. She had had no lack of suitors, and
had been accounted a spinster from choice. So
the announcement of her engagement to Mr.
Richard Cousins was a surprise to most. How-
ever, there was a farewell festive gathering at
Cardington Hall, and all the employees were
invited to drink the health of the proprietress,
and the Bridegroom Elect responded on her
behalf. The wedding-day was fixed for
June 6th at St. Patrick’s, Sydney. The
bridal party and the bridegroom’s party
journeyed to Sydney and put up at the same hotel.
Mr. Stockwell, the McNevin family solicitor, came
to town with legal documents for execution—a
marriage settlement, conferring one-fourth of the
flocks and herds and lands and tenements of
Cardington—a trifle valued at £14,500—0n the
prospective husband, and the last will and testa-
ment of the bride, devising nearly the whole of the
balance to him.
But there wasanother young man on the premises,
Henry Steadman Carr, a clean-shaved, fresh-faced,
dark-haired “commercial ” of 25, who travelled for
wool or something. Cupid inflamed him with
passion for Miss McNevin, and, masterful man,
he won her under the very nose of the young man
from the country. When the wedding took place
at St. Patrick’s, Mr. Carr was the bridegroom,
and he started on the honeymoon to England.
Mr. Cousins consulted his solicitor and issued a
writ claiming £5OOO. The case was heard before
Mr. Justice Owen and a jury of four. On Mr.
Cousins’ behalf it was pointed out that he had
been compelled to mortgage his reaper and dispose
of his horses, and exhaust his banking account, in
order to maintain the dignity of his position as
the affianced husband of the lady of Cardington
Hall. Also, he had to find the money to come to
Sydney to carry out his compact. Touching
details were given as to the lady’s interest in hirn
before Mr. Carr came on the scene. For in-
stance, once she sent a bottle of embrocation
and "trusted “ that it would be well rubbed
on Dick’s chest for his cold.” She also wrote:
“It had been the dream of her life to make
Dick happy.” The plaintiff related how he
had been more or less the object of the lady’s
affections since he was 12 years old, how she had
proposed to him, how he had cautiously, and with
an eye to a settlement and will in his favor, accep-
ted her suit, and how he spent much of his worldly
goods to keep up appearances for the sake of her
and Cardington Hall.
The jury awarded £l5O damages.
When Maoriland first went into the con-
tingent business the ranks contained a consider-
able proportion of “quality,” but the more recent
levies consist almost wholly of agricultural
laborers. The quality still volunteers for
service in the ranks, but there is a growing
impression that its father has arranged with the
doctor to have it rejected as medically unfit, so it
gets all the honor and the frill without any of the
shooting.
“ Invest iga-
trix” on opera-
tions, chloroform
and the like:
Re recent sugges-
tions that deaths
under chloroform
are sometimes due
to the use of masks.
The mask, to the
woman h o sp i t ai
patient, is, frankly
speaking, a stink-
ing abomination.
The heart-test is
frequently per-
formed in the ward;
then the woman-
patient, clad in
‘ operation clothes,’
and recumbent on
a species of dinner-
waggon, is trundled
into the ante-room
of the operating-
theatre, where a
resident doctor
claps on the mask.
To many persons
the odour of ether
(for the best reasons
preferred in this
hospital) is incom-
parably viler than
that of chloroform,
and shortly a sense
of suffocation and
nausea is added to
the intense, but
often well-conceal-
ed, terror of the
patient. The hap-
pily-ignorant
woman accepts
this sensation as
one of the inevit-
able details of the
whole affair ; the
patient who has
had a previous ex-
perience under the
private care of a
doctortakes mental
notes, but if she
be wise, says no-
thing till she is
well outside the
institution. She
can recall the pri-
vate doctor’s pleas-
ant chat, his
waving a hand
kerchief at a respectful distance, his gradual approach,
a creeping drowsiness —and no more. But, as to
the mask. In “operating' wards” it is frequently
desirable to get through eight or nine cases in the
short light of a winter’s afternoon. Also, a skilful
surgeon is often wanted in three or four places at once.
The use of the mask certainly minimises trouble for the
resident-doctor, economises time, and (presumably) econo-
mises the anaesthetic. Whether, for the sake of the
patient’s feelings merely, it is advisable to abolish it is
another question.
THE GILDED BRIDE AND HER TRIUMPHANT CARR.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MI.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will iff?, be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
Miriam : Nicely written, but doesn’t get any-
where. .. .S.S.T. : Dull treatment of a dry theme....
Lucie : Han’t say, without having seen it Salamander :
Fine large howl about an utterly insignificant matter.. ..
C.O’F. : The dream-device is now a very old and weary
literary circumstance Double-B. : True, but trite
Sandbag: Hopelessly out of our line... .Con Mac. : We
tried to straighten it out, but it flattened us 0ut.... Terma
(or something like that) : You are apparently one of those
foolish persons who imagine that, because genius S' me-
times scribbles horribly, horrible scribble means genius.
John B.: Ambitious style, badly supported by di fec-
tive taste and shaky syntax A.M. (Vic.): Smartly
rhymed, but never gets above doggerel 1eve1.... Mary B. :
Audacious plagiarism from Shelley Dargon: Rather
clever, but much too long for Bulletin. .. Silvia : Pretty,
but rather anaemic C.W.W. : Too bristly with techni-
calities Jorum: Can’t re-open the question....
Nomad : You’ll have to wander 0n... .Willis O. : Hardly
grit enough in it H.M.A. :It vfras certainly rather
ridiculous of that German paper to speak of Mr. Barton
as “Premier of Victoria.” Still, if you tried to write
coherently at short notice about, say, the Bavarian
Minister of Foreign Affairs you might also get mixed up.
Demos : This is quite the wrong paper to which to
send a lengthy argument that working men should be
contented with “ the lot to which the Lord has appointed
them,” and would be unhappy if given more wages. The
Lord hasn’t revealed anything of the sort to us... Namoi:
Thought not clear enough... .M.P. : Subject of verse has
so often been treated before... .Pankaroo : Some bad
holes in your argument; the Boer isn’t undisciplined ;
just now he is facing about the severest test of discipline
ever inflicted on a fighting band. The question is not one
of “discipline” versus “no discipline,”but of one variety of
discipline against another H.P. :We can’t publish all
the testimony pouring in to show that Argus statements
as to Victorian agricultural labor are ridiculously in-
correct. Bulletin readers are already quite con-
vinced of that fact.... Myall : Some good pars
R.A.K. : “Biograph” is a very small picture Shaker:
But bitter experience tells us that those Treasury bills never
are redeemed, and those sinking-funds are always repu-
diated. How can you reasonably suspect the Queensland
Govt, of honesty when it is buying land with one hand
(filled with loan money) and selling it (proceeds to go to
revenue account) with the other? Ishmael: Every
man’s hand in the office is turned against your verse....
W.F.H. : We can’t let our readers miss this gem :
“ John Bull and Uncle Sam are the two persons in my
Trinity, and I worship them with heartfelt reverence.
Two persons you say? Two, sir—the Father and the
Son. And from them proceeds the Spirit, the wild
spirit of battle, unchained by Kipling—a Djin liber-
ated from the brass bottle of fancied security.”....
F. Hamer : Well written, but the motive is too old. It is
“ East Lynne ” turned upside-down, and “ East Lynne ”
either side up is rather venerable Point Blank : May
publish “Piety’s Monument” in one of our irre-
sponsible moments Raupo: “Bill’s Yarn” is a
shuddery thing.. ..A.M. B.R. : “Expectancy” only an
indefinite prettiness P. H. L. : D’Arcy M’Gee’s
“History of Ireland” is about the best.... A.ILA. :
“Manuka” will appear shortly J.S. : Simply pup-
perel.. ..Timeo S.M. : If your facts are as shaky as your
Latin we would have a first-class libel action on printing
them ; will inquire further.... He : What sort of a girl is
it who has “ oozing charms ? ” It calls to our mind a
dreadful vision of a plump young female person melting
in the hot February sun Pickpocket: No law to com-
pel you to do so; the “ Co.” is a polite and legitimate
Action ; but if you want to come under the benefits of the
Companies Act, in regard to limitation of liability, &c.,
you will need to register. Have a definite deed of part-
nership drawn up G.H. : Much too giddy. Bulletin
doesn’t circulate only among the gimlet brigade, and has
to consider its innocent readers.... J. Barrett : Idea of
‘‘Suffer” has been already used in 8....A.5. : Pretty,
but inconsequential... .Richard J. : Not fat enough ;we
like our verse plump Gnai: Well-versed, but not
enough body T.A.D. : The trouble is known as
M'Oooeyitis... .Nyms : Chinese vegetable yarn too broad.
7 • • Oatcakes : Reading it makes one think sorrowfully of
“The Ancient Mariner”—same metre, same old man,
same_ encounter, but, alas, not the same charm....
Walhi: Seddon a peerage ? A ticket for the workhouse
m his old age is a more likely reward. The Empire is
willing to use suoh men as slush-boys in the kitchen, but
seldom lets them into the drawing-r00m... .8.0. D.: The
verse Is stale,.. ,M,N. : Will print Graeme Dhu : Old.
Arrives periodically.... W. Webster: Rainfall 50 to 70
oches annually : temperature akin to hell; yet inhabi-
tanta are a healthy race, and death-rate is very little
higher than in Victoria. Oan’t tell what land is available
there or under what tenure. Government publications
supply very little information. Write Lands Dept., Bris-
bane.. ..W.G.R. : Professor Froude is right, despite your
local paper. It was conquered first. Afterwards some
compensation was paid, but there was no voluntary
sale. As for the inhabitants who objected to be
either conquered or sold, they were suppressed by
force and hanged, in some cases, as rebels Prater :
Muse effuses very badly.. Marble: Haven’t time
to grumble at such small things as that The
Lesson of the Play : The worst poem this year....
Tydril : Declined without hesitation.. . .Raupo : Probably
print “Dehorning.”... Snap: Possibly quite true, but
the witnesses to your libel seem to have a bad habit of
being dead... .D.R.O. : Thanks for incoherent letter.. ..
G.G. : Verse too irregular. Would require a vast amount
of re-writing... .Uno : Verse very jolty, and no man who
knows the awful grimness and dreariness of three-fourths
of this continent would go on like that... .Doris : Cer-
tainly drowning is a painful death in most cases—but it’s
a darned sight easier than starving... .Gibo : Not up....
Diarmid : Trifle without brandy—and We like a dash of
spirit in our trifles So-So: Can’t “recommend a
doctor for your complaint.” Don’t be such a fool and
you will be all right .. .Helen O. : For anyone who has
ideas and can write them up at all smartly there’s always
a good opening ; should advise you to take an office
billet at first and try contributing in a small way
to the papers until you get into the swing....
E.M.V.: Of no possible interest to Australians, who take
the performer on his own merits, or demerits, without
reference to his pa The Savage : Good music-hall
verse but not suitable for B Moobung : Can’t be
advocated in these columns ; it might be acted upon ;
and we object to the odor of burnt politician.... T. J.
Preston : Can’t trace copy you mention ; “ If Britain say
nnt nay ”is good idea, but treatment not up.... Rita S. :
Glad to know' address of dumb barber, but can t give
him so much space—even in your good verse. Subjectso
hackneyed by American comic prints,.. .Tol. : No, Thk
Bulletin is not a “funny paper.” It is in the habit,
however, of publishing facts, which seem funny and
unfamiliar to some people....S.C.H. : Graceful, but we’ve
gravest doubts as to its originality. Why should you, an
Australian bard, with a lot of leaks in your spelling, write
Or sit and ponder old-world rhymes
e Under the leaves of scented limes.
...Helix: Not very plain why a person in love should
want “ One V> ay, One Door,” especially when you can get
two doors for 245. fid D.R.0.: Verse poor ; pars good.
.... Constance Scriber, or something thereabouts (Manly):
Illegible Fixem : Too shuddery Legirons : Not
much in “ Transported.”... .J.O.S. : Handed to artist.
Artist didn’t take it kindly.. . .Tyro : After all, it is a very
small yellow pup, and we are not sure that we haven’t
noticed it too much already H.P. : But the A.N.A.
young man is not “ going to do anything to justify his
existence.” He doesn’t seem to have a soul beyond
blather and cheap medals C.C.A. : St. Patrick’s Day
is theoretically not “a mere sectarian holiday.” It is the
Irish national holiday, and is celebrated as such by thou-
sands of good Protestants —but w'hy it should be
an official holiday here is a bit of a mystery
Goulburn : In 1881 the opinion was given by N.S.W.
Attorney-General that whilst English law, and law in
some Australian States, prevented an uncertificated bank-
rupt being a J.P., there was no such law here. In 1890
another Attorney-General held that for an uncertificated
bankrupt to be a J. P. was “ undesirable, but not illegal ”
in N.S.W. A similar opinion was given in 1891.. .. V.S. :
“Cast Shadows” only artificially marvellous
Ikore : “ Hope Eternal ” coal yarn still unconvincing.
. ...W.J. : Yarns unreal; one bit of verse perhaps
useable Alma S. : Some merit, but metre faulty
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
A.E.M. : Arrived too late M.A. : Unsuitable....
Quilayen : Do try and send us something with an Aus-
tralian aroma. That champagne item might have come
from anywhere—from London, or Turkey, or Boggabri-
A.J.H. : One very flat ; the other (barber item)
appeared long ago as a paragraph. Anyhow, it isn’t a
theme to be accentuated by illustration Mabel S. :
Only one possible this time... .L.W. (Bris.) : May do as a
suggestion.... E. F. His. : Two accepted ; one returned
for needful alterations in the lady’s anatomy A.S.M. ;
Subject too unsavory R.B. (Lei.) : Unavailable
E.J.S. : Didn’t hand your suggestions to Hop. Hop is a
respectable citizen... W..J.P. : Hopeless E.G. : You
haven’t got the hang of the political situation.... E.G. :
Nightmare idea pointless... .G.R.A. : No redeeming
features... .O.C. : Rat suggestion rather worn... .Bunya
(Vic.): Neither available... .Marcus A. : May use one
only. Memo, posted. By the way, we aren’t interested
in social occurrences happening in “ Merrion-square,
Dublin.”... .Taylor (Vic.) and M.S. (Mallee Cooking):
Please send address so that we can remit... .James O. :
You’ve some idea of drawing, but jokes too weak....
Tommy Adelaide : A small joke beaten out thin ; we want
big jokes in tabloid form Matchbox : “After the holi-
days ” has that after-holiday feeling pretty bad.


s ”- !
| - is el l z:>.
*% $z r ~ W
if
i
I o«f
I
- ■ "reason that human
r.2rr£“*r.
ra te, but for the reborn ■«» „ well **
sordid, that prevent, oe
cheaper, than cure.
I
M ar
Hire w », ,{ or said', the
c; " '■ mtt : j / k
mmWmßmk \B
a>JMpB»aU
Por
'**»*"«? 6 - •*£ n *'i?
’Does'"
nnVjicV; I ]e liK^
l wr”
| —- -— - - - // '
-7 K p
ft
r °<V p
C Sc
V/ g Ki ~
'■
; .
if
- HR■■■
MIM
g 3—
I
SOME PLAGUE AND RAT IDEAS.


Speaking on ttW Irish qaestion. Lord Rose-
bery said it would be madness to entrust
Ireland’s destinies to men who earnestly
wished to see Great Britain overthrown on
the battlefield. An independent Parliament
at Dublin was cot on his slate.
What the small boy, Rosebery, really
has on his little slate.
Hor/ a flea looks to a Sydney man
just now.
Small Boy : “Hi!
mister,
merlin is got
adrift! ”
“ A Chinese gentleman,
who said his name was
Tomson, called at the
Evening News office
this afternoon, with satisfaction beaming
from every lineament. There was to be
an inch of rain in Sydney between 3 and 4 o'clock
to-morrow morning.”
ST PATR/CK’S DAY
holi paY-
TKOTFST
" »F
BUSINESS
\ nf. N
THIS HAPPENED IN A MAORILAND SCHOOL:
Teacher (having described the beauties
of mountains, skies, clouds, trees, 'arid
St'fa Of,.
; i
* v
%
flowers) : " Now tell nie,'
who made all that i ” '
ANOTHER INJUSTICE TO IRELAND »
The Royal Exchange board to-day displayed a big notice
stating that various institutions intended keeping open on March
17 next, and among the number are included the shipping-offices.
Small Boy : “ Mr. Richard
Seddon.”
Dead rats'are now paid for at the depots at
the rate of 3d. each. The proper way to dispose of
dead rats is to pick them up with tongs, drop them
into a billy or other well-covered receptacle, and
•convey them to the depot for incineration.” —Sydney
•daily paper. .
Teacher : “ Quite wrong; it ”
Chorus : “ Oh, sir, we didn’t know you
were a pro-Boer ? ”
Chords or Parsons ; «• Come in out of
the wet; ware ruined by Chinese
cheap labor 1
Boy with Rats in a Billy,
► , *»“ father): “Wot shall I
>.<lo with the money for the four rats ? ”
His Father (promptly); “ Bring me hack-turn
quarts of beer in the billy.”
London, Friday.—Prince Henry is suffering from t.he
.Steam of prolonged travel in his American journey. Crowds
of roughs attend at wayside railway stations, knock at the
windows of the Prince’s car in the middle of the night, arouse 7
nica from bis rest, and demand a speech.
PRINCES, JOSSES, AND SUNDRIES.


A. SAUNDERS’
Watches, Clocks, Jewellery, and Silverplate at EBEETRADE PRICED
Save 25 per cent, to 50 per cent. Showrooms: 815 GEORGE-STREET, SYDaEI,
A. SAUNDERS.
Strong, Reliable LEVERS, “The Chaei,enge,” 15s.
The Unrivalled Lever, in Black or Nickel, 20s ;
perfect timekeeper. The London Lever, new f-plate
model, 255; in Solid Silver, £2 2s; in Double Case,
£2 10s £3. Rotherham LEVERS, £3 10s, £4, £5,
£6, £7, £B. Gold WATCHES, £4 4s, £5 ss, £6 6s,
£7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O. Mind, we guarantee
you the utmost satisfaction, “otherwise we will
exchange watch for you.”
Send for illustrated book of oarticulars, post free.
EREETRADE
PRICES.
NO
ADVANCE.
A. SAUNDERS.
(Registered) Gold Secret Name BROOCH,
ldct. Gold, Diamonds, £2 10s, £3, £4. Any
Name or Motto Free.
Six different patterns, similar.
jlgg
A. SAUNDERS.
i .atest Secret Name BROOCH, Red or Blue
Stone, Three similar patterns, 20s and 2os.
Any Name Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
026 Latest Half Moon and Star Gold
BROOCH, Pearlette, Pearls and Red or Blue
Stones, 21s ; 15ct. Gold, £2.
Ladies’ Curb Gold Chain,
Snap Padlock, 255, 30s,
355, £2 ss, £3; 15ot. £2los,
£3, £4, £4 10s, £5, £6, £7
10s, £B, £9, £lO.
j
10s extra for Key Pad-
lock.
All with Safety Chain.
A. SAUNDERS.
Bamboo Gold BRACELET, all the style, price according to
Width, 20s, 255, 30s, £2, £2 10s; 15ct. Gold £3, £4, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Wish Bone and Arrow, with Red
Stone, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Bar, Raised Blowers, 5s 6d; Larger,
6s 6d ; Largest size, 7s 6d.
These are indeed very pretty.
*3T ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Silver Hunting Keyless, 255, 30s, £2,
£2 10s, £3.
Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3, £4, £5:
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
ALL GUARANTEED.
©
A. SAUNDERS.
2-Bar and Garnet BROOCH, 15s, larger
size, 21s; very strong and neat.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold BROOCH, 2 Hearts, 2 Bars,
Diamonds, l'is 6d ; vptv neat.
fdj
Gold 2-Bar Ivy Leaves, Chain and Heart,
10s 6d ; very neat.
Solid Gold CHAIN (Single or Double), £2 10s, £3,
£3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5. 15ct. Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6,
£6 10s, £7, £B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Send for Price Illustrated Book.
A. SAUNDERS.
£-Bar Gold, Diamond Cut Amethyst, 22s 6d; 15ct.
Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Motto Registered Gold “Dinna Forget '’
BROOCH and Amethysts, 9ct. Gold, 17s 6d;
15ct. Gold, 80s; 18ct. Gold, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
35ct. 2-Bar Pure Diamond Double Cut, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
DIAMOND BRACELET, 15ct. Gold, three Pure Double
Cut Diamonds, with Safety Chain, £5.
9ct. Gold Square or half-round BRACELET, 3 Red or
Blue Stones, £2 ;.'.very neat and cheap.
A. SAUNHEBS.
Gold Mizpah BBOOCH, 2 Hearts, 10s
larger, 12s 6d; a nice Brooch.
a 12 13 14 15
A. SAUNDERS’
FREETRADE PRICES.
10. Round LINK, 9ct. Gold, £2, £2 10s,
£3 ; 15ct., £4, £5.
11. —Rope Pattern, 9ct. Gold, £2, £2 10s,
£3; 15ct., £4, £5.
12. —Curb Pattern, 9et. Gold, £2, £2 10s,
63; 15ct„ £4, £5.
13. —Rope and Ball, 9ct. Gold, £2, £2los,
£3; 15ct., £4, £5.
14. —Curb and Link, £3, £4, £5, £6.
15. —Chain and Ron 61 to £7 10s
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Solid Gold, Pure Double Cut
Diamonds, £lO.
A. SAUNDERS.
Registered Gold 2-Bird 2-Heart Amethyst BROOCH,
20s ; Pearl Set Bird, 22s 6d ; 15ct. Gold, £2.
15ct. Gold Bar and Scroll BROOCH, Pearls and Red
Stone, 85s ; quite new.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Buckle BROOCH, Set with 8 blue or red
stones, 12s 6d; latest style.
15ot. Gold BROOCH, 2-Bar Scroll, Diamond and
Euby Set, £2; very choice.
&
mmß
A. SAUNDEES.
Newest Solid Gold Name BEOOCH, 7s 6d ; with
Eaised Flowers each side (Any Name) 15ot.
Gold, 15s ; Latest Style.
A. SAUNDEES.
Extra Strong 15ct. Gold, Diamonds, Euhies, and
Pearls, £3 ss) Five Diamonds, £4, £5.
A. &A UXN J_/_iiRS.
Nioely Chased G-old BRACELET, 25s ; very neat and pretty.
9ct. Gold, two Twisted Bars, Bell and Chain,
12s 6d; Amethyst Heart, 13s 6d.
Gold 2-Bar BROOCH Scroll, Pearl Set with Red
Stone, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Pearl and Turquoise
Floral and Ribbon BROOCH,
£2 10s.
London’s Newest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Pearl and Turquoise
Heart BROOCH, £2 2s.
The Latest Style.
THE FEDERAL TARIFF,
THIS I HAVE ANTICIPATED.
MY CASH PURCHASES have been
enormous, and I am in a position
to sell at FREETRADE PRICES.
£32,000 worth of Watches, Jewellery,
and Silverplate to choose from. It will
save you 25 per cent, to 50 per cent.
This is a consideration. '
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
A. SAUNDERS’ Latest Turcpioise and Curb Gold Chain Padlock Bracelet, the very latest London style, £2 15s. In nice Silk Case
i
Post Card Gold CHASM, 10s.
Any Name Free.
Silver, gilt, 5s 6d.
A. SAUNDEES.
9ct. Gold LOCKET, 15s
15ct. Gold, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Dinna Forget,
10s 6d.
Our Own Registered
Design.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, 2 Hearts, Diamond,
and Buby, 355; 2 Diamonds, £2 ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Shield and
Dumbbell LINKS, 12s 6d;
15ct. Gold, 255;
Silver, 8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Shield LINKS,
10s 6d ; Silver, 2s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS (Regis-
tered) Gold LINKS, 20s ;
15ct. Gold, 32s 6d; Silver and
Gold, 10s ; all Silver, ss.
9ct. Gold Stone
KING, IQs ;
3 similar patterns.
Solid Gold Opal LINKS,
■with Initial, £2 10a.
Extra Strong.
A. SATJNDEKS.
Beautifully Chased, 9ct. Gold,
large size LINKS, 22s 6d.
Plain, 21s, or with initials
nicely ohased, 22s 6d ;
15ct. Gold, £2 ; Silver, 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Full Set of STUDS, Link Collar
Stud, and 3 Fronts, 9ct., 355.
Similar style, 25s and 30s j
15ct. Gold, £2, £2 10s, £3.
ALL FREETRADE PRICES.
Solid Gold Turquoise
and Pearl, 20s.
Newest Style.
Mizpah Gold’
CHARM, 4s,
A. SAUNDERS.
Dot. Gold Hearts, 12s 6d ;
15ct. Gold, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ot. Solid Gold LINKS.
Plain 17s 6d, 20s, 255;
15ot. Gold, £2, £2 ss, £2 10s.
Monogram, 2s 6d extra.
Gold Shield Link and
Dumbbell, 15s 6d j .
15ct. Gold, 80s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Signet Plain RING,
9ct Gold,, 20s, 25s ; 15ct. gold,
80s, 35s ; 18ct., £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Solid Gold,
Pure Double Cut Dia-
mond, £3 ;
other size stone, £3 10s,
£4, £5.
m mm*
18ct. Solid Gold,
3 Opals, 4 Diamonds, £5;
Smaller Diamonds,
£2 10s, £3, £Blos, £4.
18ct. Gold Buckle RING,
Diamond,
and 2 Rubies or
Sapphires,
£2 10s.
18ot. Solid Gold Diamond
Band, £2, £2los, £8;
loot. Gold, 30s.
18ct. Buttercup
Single stone Diamond
RING,
£3, £4, £5.
. S
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold,
3 Pure Diamonds,
2 Opal Hearts, £4 10s.
Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Band,
Opal, 17s 6d l
15ct. Gold, 30s j
18ct. Gold, £2.
Send for Size Card.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Solid Gold,
5 Pure White Double
Cut Diamonds,
£5.
Splendid Value.
GENT.’B RING.
Solid Gold, Amethyst, 25s ;
15ct. Gold, £2 ;
18ct. £2 10s.
CB.P*
18ot. Gold Extra Strong,
Diamond, and 2 Red
Stones, 255.
15et. Gold, Diamond,
and 2 Red Stones, 20s.
18ct. Solid Gold,
Extra Strong and Heavy,
1 Diamond, 2 Red or Bide
Stones,
£2, £2 10s, £3, £4, £5.
18ot. Solid Gold
MARQUIS RING,
Diamonds and
Rubies, Sapphire and
Opal Centres,
£lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
18ct. Solid Gold,
5 Pure Diamonds,
£8 10s, £lO, £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O, £25, £3O.
Smaller, £5, £O, £7,
£7 10s, to £3O.
t 313
A. SAUNDERS.
18et. Gold, 5 Opals.
Eirst-class, £2 10s ;
Size larger, extra
good, £3 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hand-made Wedding RINGS and KEEPERS.
9ct. Solid Gold, 7s 6d, 10s each; 15ct. Gold, 15s;
extra heavy, 25s ; 18ct. Gold, 20s ;
extra heavy, 80s, 355, 405., 50s. Send for card.
fcfr CALL AND SEE OUR JEWELLERY EXHIBITION—A SPLENDID DISPLAY;
OR SEND FOR OUR 1901 COMPLETE ILLUSTRATED FREETRADE PRICE BOOK, POST FREE ANYWHERE.
9
LEADING ART JEWELLER,
815 & 817 GEORGEST,
Nearly Opposite
Railway Station.
SYDNEY.


PHOSFERINE
The Greatest of all Tonics.
Phoseerine is the most powerful Nerve and Recuperative
Tonic known. It removes Mental Depression, want of Tone and
Nerve Power. It lias remarkable Health-giving, Strength-giving,
Energising, and Rejuvenating properties.
No other Medicine has received such absolute proof of its
extraordinary properties in restoring Shattered Constitutions, and
in giving back to the prematurely aged New Life and Energy.
It is an unfailing remedy for Neuralgia, Nervous Dys-
pepsia, Anaemia, Brain-Fag, Depression, Impoverished Blood,
Rheumatism, Sleeplessness, Indigestion, Influenza, Nervous
Headaches, Debility, and all disorders consequent upon a
reduced state of the nervous system.
ROYAL COMMANDS.
Pliosferine enjoys the distinguished honour of having been supplied by commands to
MEMBERS OF THE BRITISH ROYAL FAMILY.
H.I.M. the Empress of Russia.
H.M. the King of Greece.
H.M. the Queen of Roumania.
H.I.M. the Dowager Empress of Russia
II S.H. tlieHereditaryPrincess olLeiningen
M M M M M
W H W H HH
I.H. the Grand Duchess Olga of Russia.
R.H. the Crown Princess of Routnania.
I.H. the Grand Duchess Serge of Russia.
R.H. the Grand Duchess of Hesse.
I.H. the Grand Duchess Xenia of Russia.
principal Royalty and Aristocracy throughout the World.
No other Medicine has been awarded this unique distinction of Royal favor,
and it speaks volumes for the wonderful restorative properties of Phosferine.
CURES
Neuralgia,
Sciatica,
Lumbago,
Gout,
Rheumatism,
Impaired
Vitality,
Debility,
Brain Fag,
Weakness,
Nervous
Exhaustion,
Melancholia,
Impaired
Digestion, etc.
V
m
Vitalizing:
Tonic,
Imparting
New Life
and
Energy
to the
Entire
System.
CAUTION.
GENUINE PHOSFERINE.
Ashton & Parsons, Ld., 17 Farringdon Road, London,
the original and only genuine makers of PHOSFERINE find it necessary to
put the public on their guard against mendacious imitations of their well-known
medicine that are being offered for the sake of extra profit.
It is necessary, when purchasing Phosferine, to see that it bears the name of
the genuine makers, viz. : V
Ashton & Parsons, Ltd., 17 Farringdon Road, London
PREPARED IN THREE SIZES.
pf The Second Size contains nearly four times the Smallest Size.
The Genuine Phosferine can be obtained from Washington H.
Soul & Co., Pitt Street, Sydney, and all respectable Chemists.
Wholesale Agents: SAYERS , ALLPORT A> POTTER, SYDNEY .
MOIR’S
BLOATER PASTE.
In Tins about 2 ozs. and 4 ozs.
Manufacturers:
JOHN MOIR & SON, LIMITED,
LONDON, ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE.
Head Office— 9 & 10, Great Tower Street, London, E.C.
PURVEYORS BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO HIS MAJESTY THE KING.
Blissing Friends.
IF JAMES PINNINGTON (son of Richard
L Pinnington) formerly of Rochdale, England
)r his widow or children, if any) who left Roch-
’ale about 1877 and went on board the Highflyer
nd landed at Maryborough, Queensland, and who
übsequently lived at Maryborough aforesaid and
worked there as a painter and laborer, and is re-
lorted to have been at one time on the Tweed
liver and at Sydney, New South Wales, will
ommunicate with BRIERLEY & HUDSON,
iolicitors, Rochdale, England, lie. will hear of
omething to his advantage. And information as
o the said James Pinnington subsequent to 1887
vill be thankfully acknowledged.
Business Announcements
We Don’t Supply
the Wind.
VERY LITTLE NEEDED WITH
The “Gem” Windmill
AMERICA’S GREAT GALVANISED FLYER
. . WITH . .
GALVANISED STEEL TOWER.
Absolutely the Highest Grade Windmill on the
market. Estimates furnished for Mill and Pump
complete.
M'LEAN BROS. & RIGG LTD.
Melbourne & Sydney.
AtffMflUfciJ' IPRIX,” 1900.
See the Marvellous results obtained with the
No. 1 Panoram
Which takes Wide Panoramic Pictures, 7in.
x 2^in., and is Loaded and Un-
loaded in Daylight ; also the
No. 3 Folding Pocket
KODAK
Taking Pictures 3|in. x 4|in., fitted with
Rapid Rectilinear Lens, Brilliant V r iew
Finder, made of aluminium.
Send for Illustrated Leaflets, and
mention this Paper.
To be obtained of all Dealers throughout
Australasia, or of—
KODAK Ltd.
THE BLOCK,
284 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
m
fA
&
n>
Given
away,
This Month,
, to advertise
our .
OSTRICH
TIPS.
2/6
The Bunch,
post free.
3 Black or Cream
Tips with Ospreys.
Write To-day. Send Postal Notes.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Bourke & Swanston sts., Melbourne
Publications.
THE BALLET GIRL
f%8
fdj
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures'
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties.
Madame Panza,
913, G-P.0., SYDNEY.
TRICfiODOgy
A Study of BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, By Dr.
ALFEED NEALE. Posted 7d.
SKIN 'DISEASES
AMD TIIEIR TREATMENT.
Posted Is Id.
Publishers : Turner and ilandvrsou, SYDNEY.
MfRINKt.ES and RAPID RULES' BUSINESS^MEMORY
FIGURES. —“ Useful little book. Rules for rapid
calculation are excellent. Many valuable hints.”—S. E.
News. “Memory system is ingenious.”— S.M. Herald.
“ If followed out should lead on to.fortune.”— S.D. Tele-
graph. Postal note, Is. J. C. COX, DARLING ST .
BALMAIN, SYDNEY.
The Ways of Many Waters
Bt E. J BRADY.
Tender Mercies!
A Sydney street. A horse slips and falls. The
driver of the van alights and thrashes the beast
by way of persuading him to rise. A few frantic
efforts, and then, with a heart-rending cry, the
horse stretches out, and it is seen that the leg-
bone is protruding from the flesh. A crowd
gathers, out of idle curiosity—nothing more. The
driver curses vividly, and bemoans his ill-luck-
no hysterical sympathy for the poor beast in its
agony. Someone goes for one of the men work-
ing on the new tram-line. He arrives with a huge
hammer. . The crowd now presses forward.
Things are getting interesting. The strong man
whirls the heavy hammer over his head, and . . .
thud ! The horse struggles pitifully, and almost
rises on the fractured limb. A couple of police-
men arrive, but they don’t seem to understand
that their revolvers would be comparative mercy.
Perhaps the regulations forbid. The great iron
death-dealer swings once more . . . then crash !
crash ! Splintered bones and protruding brains.
The crowd, as if satisfied, slowly disperses.
Again, a carriage collides with a cab- horse
and an Sin. strip of flesh is torn from the
horse’s leg and hangs nearly to the ground.
Cabby yells after the retreating carriage
and then for some minutes discusses with his
mates the identity of the occupants. Meanwhile
copious streams of blood run into the gutter and
form a little rivulet. The horse ceaselessly paws
with the injured leg, endeavoring to find relief,
and with each “paw” the gaping wound is torn
afresh and other blood-vessels spurt forth their
streams. A handkerchief would temporarily
stanch the flow and bind the flesh, but nobody
seems to think of it. Twenty minutes pass in
cursing the coachman—for causing the horse’s
agony ? No ; for rendering the animal unprofit-
able for a week or two. Two policemen stand
calmly by with notebooks until the horse is at last
led limping away, with the flesh still hanging from
the leg. Animai-Protection-Societies will never be
of much use in a community in which religion
teaches that man is a special creation. Not till it
is recognised that man and'the horse have common
ancestors—are, in fact, cousins many times re-
moved—will men have real feeling for the woes of
their equine slaves.
Charitable Aid.
A lady writes about the Charitable Aid systems
of New South Wales :—
N.S.W. has numerous charities, most of them misfits.
The other day a man was thoughtless enough to fall from
the cliffs at Manly, and applying at the district hospital
was told that there was no provision for persons who
broke their heads in this manner. He was informed, as
it were bv proxy (his head not being in a fit state to
master the intricacies of charitable aid at the moment)
that he should get his skull wrecked next time at some
place within reasonable distance of a casualty ward. We
are told that there are several thousand cases of tuber-
culosis in Sydney, but thirteen beds in a country hospital
(not enough to give more than halfan-hour’s bed time
par head) is all the provision made for those who intend
to succumb to the disease. Democracy is continually
prating of the Right to Live. I want to know where
the Right to Die comes in—the right to die without being
expected to get the business over in half-an-hour so as to
make room for someone else ?
Our charitable aid systems were evidently conceived in
a humorous spirit. If a society labels itself a Children’s
Protection Societv it usually looks after old women ; if it
professes to be a Women’s Protection Association it keeps
a parental eye on the fatherless. Thus a sick woman
appealed to be taken to a hospital, with the result that a
burly inspector came along to say that she must let her
boy be remo\ ed to a cottage home. The system has a
profound faith, not only in the philanthropy, but in the
abundant leisure, of everybody outside its own ranks, and
anyone who wants to give information in cases of sickness
or distress is chivvied about from one department to
another for a week or so. By that time the person has
died, owing, possibly, to a spirit of pure cussedness and a
desire to cause trouble all round, and to get some poor
official dismissed or censured. There is no General
Information Bureau, as in most other countries, and if
such a bureau were formed it would probably spend its
time rescuing last dogs, so, maybe, it’s just as well to be
without one.
In Germany, every city possesses such a bureau,
working like oiled machinery, no child can be fatherless
and friendless for more than half-an-hour, the State
parent at once assuming the responsibility.
The charity of a charitable aid official sometimes works
in a spasmodic manner. Each cultivates a special horror,
and coldly refuses to be annoyed by the horrors of any
rival official. When one of the band was shown a room
where a consumptive boy slept with some grown people,
he refused to lose his official calm till he noticed that the
boy also reposed in the society of a decayed pumpkin.
Diseased fruit was his particular horror, though he
declined to be horror-stricken at diseased boys. That was
the business of another society.
An official’s idea of extreme measures is to write to the
papers. “ Sool the press on to them ; they deserve
it,” was his advice. When you do “ sool ” a paper on to
them they get much excited for three days, during which
time the representatives of about ten societies, a
policeman or two, a sister Somebody-or-So, and the case’s
long-lost brother, all troop down to the case and dispute
the other’s right to him. In one instance they begged
that, as they could not personally supervise the invalid,
they might disinfect the premises, and for some days sul-
phur, chloride of lime and carbolic were distributed
through a set of office buildings till people coming in on
business made complaints that “ if must be a case of
plague and no policeman is stationed at the door.”
Our charitable aid system suffers from the public as
well as from officialdom. Whenever any Leading Citizen
notices that some institution or branch of one is not quite
O.K. financia’ly, instead of trying to put the small wrong
right by giving coin to set it on its legs again, he starts a
rival establishment which, after a while, also suffers from
financial depression. There are certain cases, however,
wherein the poorest mendicant is chased by doctors;
and every institution for the sick will give him room.
There is an aristocracy in diseases, and if a man has only
the sense to get some mysteriously intricate and unusual
complaint, he may pick and choose. Provided only his
vitals are so remarkable as to be worthy of preservation
in a bottle when he is done with them, and his case is one
to be discussed in the medical journals after death, then
he may be happy. But some mean people, after thus
revelling in luxury, recover and go away, leaving the
bottle which should have contained their vitals empty
and deserted. These things sour the charitable aid
system, and make if all the less responsive when next a
case of plain rheumatism comes along.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
II. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth -st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
The Bulletin Story Book (price 4s. 6d.
post-free from The Bulletin office) has been
everywhere hailed as by far the best book of
Australian stories and sketches yet published.
All the best-known Australian writers, for the
last ten years, are represented; and, both for
interest and literary value, the selection is un-
surpassed in this country.*
A copy of “A Policy for the Common-
wealth,” The Bulletin’s particularly suc-
cessful pamphlet, will be posted from this office to
any Australian address on receipt of 8d. in stamps
of any State).


A FREE VETERINARY BOOK.
- A most useful Veterinary Book is attached
to every bottle of Gondy’s Fluid. This Book
contains instructions for curing most of the
ailments and accidents affecting Horses,
Dogs, Sheep, Oattle and Poultry.
Eminent Veterinary Surgeons recom-
mend Condy’s Fluid as an absolutely
certain cure for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs,
Broken Knees, Grease, Thrush and
Cracked Heels in Horses—Scab, Foot
Rot, Fly, etc., in Sheep—Hoove, Foul in
the Foot, Wounds and Sores in Cattle.
Condy’s Fluid is made by Condy &
Mitchell, Ltd., of 65, Goswell Road,
London, England, and is sold by all
Chemists and Stores. Beware of Colonial
substitutes. Insist on having Condy’s Fluid.
BWWWM
GrO TO TTT-IT -T ■—
I GOLAN I) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizafceth-st., Sydney,
Australian Stamps bought, prioe*
lists gratis.
H. AT S- HATS. HftTS.
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fatted with this
valuable invention.
Catalogue to B. MOUlltCaStle & SOtlS,
BRISBA.NTE.
Important Announcement to our City and Countr y
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY # CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 Georgs Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION &. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
THERE IS NO BUGGY
so suitable for all Back Country work as
Will do the work of a Buckboard: ride as
easy as a Buggy. Has no undergear, yet is not a Buckboard ; all the body on
springs, yet is not a Buggy. Same Price, any Port, any State in the Common-
wealth. WE PAY THE FREIGHT, and Duties are off.
CASH ONLY.
SIMPSON’S ‘GIL GAI.’
SIDNEY SIMPSON, Coachbuilder, 73 King St, Newtown, Sydney,
POLITICAL
POINTS
If only G. H. Reid’s Dry Dog had a taste
for rats!
Writes a pressman employed in the gallery
of the House of Representatives:—
My tip for the High Commissionership is Edmund
Barton, with no one else in the running.
Tudor, M.H.R., contended warmly for
a heavy duty on tombstones, because, he said,
they are luxuries. Well, they’re not necessaries
of life, anyhow.
Pawnbrokers, tobacco dealers, billiard and
bagatelle proprietors, hotel keepers and people
of various other occupations are licensed
and pay annual fees. Why not compel finan-
cial agents and money-lenders to register and
pay annual fees also ? The profit might not
be much, but a very little money gladdens a
very large statesman these times.
Mauger asked M‘Millan in the House of
Representatives to explain why he declared
in politics that Protection always raised prices
enormously, and declared in his trade
circulars that under Protection his
firm was < selling below Free-
trade prices. M‘Millan’s
reply was mainly a sickly
protest against this mix-
ing up of politics and
business —in other
words, he protested
against being expected to
live up to his theories. All
the same M‘Millan’s firm
hasn’t managed to “ pass
the duties on to the con-
sumer.” The country
fets more revenue under
'rotection, more work,
more wages, and unless
M‘Millan’s firm is
Bhamefully inaccur-
ate, is getting its
softgoods at a
lowerprice. Pos-
sibly M'Millan’s
rich absentee
bosses are mak-
ing less profits
thougli, which
would explain
many things.
That verac-
ious politician,
Premier Philp, of
Queensland, went to
the poll promising,
if he came back
politically alive, to
prune the big salaries,
reduce the number of
members, and, in fact,
do just what he de-
clined to do last session,
when he fought tooth
and nail against the
reductions advocated
by the Labor party.
“ When the devil was
ill,” &c. Philp is a
humorless person.
Think of the man who increased the annual expen-
diture by £831,000 per annum in two years, calling
himself the leader of the Party of Economy !
Notice-of-motion in the Australian Senate
(and one day it will be so ordered): —
That, to provide a fund for the payment of old-age
pensions, and for other purposes, the manufacture and
sale of tobacco, cigars and cigarettes should become a
national monopoly within the Commonwealth.
A lieutenant with eight years experience
applied for a commission in M.L. Ninth Con-
tingent, and was quietly told to join as a private
trooper. A raw, inexperienced youth, son of a
wealthy Aucklander, was made a sergeant same
day, and got a commission within a week.
Apropos a recent cable. It is the doom of
Holland to be swallowed by the Germans, for
Holland stands between the open sea and
Germany, whose destiny and ambition it is to
become a great naval power. Holland was
German territory for centuries, and the Teuton is
coming back for his lost property.
Rev. Tremayne Dunstan, of Sydney, in a
recent sermon upon the war, said he saw
Right for ever on the scaffold,
Wrong for ever on the throne.
Clearly the allusion was to Commandant Scheepers
on his scaffold and Edward VII. on his throne;
but we didn’t expect that from Mr. T. Dunstan.
O‘Sullivan’s frenzied desire to give holidays
in honor of obscure Scotch Saints that went to
Ireland, and other small fry, will yet lead to
popular dislike. The civil servant, who is paid
for holidays, may not object, but the laborer who
loses a day’s wage every time O ‘Sullivan breaks
out already begins to say things.
An application is in for bringing under
Torrens Act in N.S.W. a part of 240 acres granted
to William Bligh. The legend goes that when
Governor King was retiring from office in 1806 he
made a grant to his successor, Bligh, and that when
Governor Bligh came into power he made a grant
to ex-Governor King. The kindly feeling which
these two hard-swearing old gentlemen had for
each other can’t be too highly praised.
On the late N.S. W. humiliation-and-prayer
day Government clerks and officers were paid as
usual, but the Government pick-and-shovel men
had the day deducted ! The navvies on the
duplication works, Katoomba way, who were thus
mulcted, sent in a remonstrance. Navvies, as a
class, are not much given to prayer, and they
don’t see why O’Sullivan should stop their pay
and pose as a benefactor of the workers at the
same time.
Pliilp’s demand that members of the Fede-
ral Parliament shall pay in ready money when they
travel on Queensland railways, instead of hand-
ing in an order on the Federal Treasurer, created
more indignation in the House of Reps, than the
most Tory proposal made in that Chamber.
Members called him “Quilp” amid scornful
cheers, and one Minister pointed out the scandalous
humiliation it would be if a member were accosted
on a railway platform and asked to pay cash.
Down with Philp I
HIS EXCELLENCY WILL WINTER IN
SYDNEY.
“A long letter has been received by Mr. See from the
Governor-General, Lord Hopetoun. His Excellency says
he hopes to be settled in Sydney at the time of the
arrival of the State Governor, Sir Harry Rawson. The
Governor-General adds that he is feeling a great deal
stronger than he has been for a long time, and hopes that
by spending the winter in Sydney his health will be fully
set up.”— AGE.
LORD HOPETOHN : “I go where duty calls, hut I
take precautions. Disinfection is the better
part of valor.”
William M‘Millan indignantly denounced
the proposed duty on boots and shoes as an
attempt to reserve the Australian market for
Australian manufacturers. In the eyes of the
unpatriotic and anti-Australian M’Millan the
Australian market should be reserved for the
German, French, American and English manu-
facturers. The imported importer - man, it
would seem, actually thought he was making a
devastating accusation when he charged the
Government with trying to let the Australian
have the use of his own market.
“ Melh.” : Judge Hamilton, in our county
court, had, t’other day, an opportunity for an
enunciation of the grand principles of the law,
which Judges of small courts magniloquently de-
light in. It was a twopenny half-penny case of
trespass, such a paltry affair that Hamilton only
gave a farthing damages. Yet it gave him a
chance to declaim on Sacred Proputty. He said
he had met with a legal dictum that even flying a
balloon two miles over a man’s land is trespass !
He was inclined to think that a landowner pos-
sessed the sky right up to heaven !
Colonial Sugar Co. in N.S.W. does nob
pay for cane at a fixed price, but according to the
“percentage of obtainable cane sugar,” on a
scale of the eo.’s own devising, and it will not
allow the results shown by this scale to be checked
by the actual sugar returns.. The growers regard
the co’s secret scale with distrust; and as the
rebate on Federal excise is 4s. per ton on cane
going 10 tons to one of sugar, with a proportionate
increase or decrease for cane above or below that
standard, the growers hope that the Federal
Government will ascertain the percentage of sugar
through its own officers.
Victoria’s Premier Pecksniff is stopping
the old age pensions of some men over the statu-
tory age on the ground “ that they look strong
enough to work.” One venerable, judged strong
enough to work and so deprived of his pension,
was aged 69 ! When Premier Pecksniff has
stopped the pensions of all the aged whose
characters are not good enough, those who look
strong enough to work, and those who are sus-
pected of being under age, of drinking, of having
affluent relatives or evil intentions, of being aliens,
and of not being the persons they claim to be, the
total Victorian pension outlay will be about £1
per annum.
The British Government has appointed a
committee to inquire into the increasing employ-
ment of Lascars m the British mercantile marine.
The Lascar is no great use for fighting purposes,
and if he, by his superior cheapness, edges the
Briton out of his own mercantile fleet, then that
fleet ceases to be a recruiting ground for the navy
in war time. Certainly, there is room for alarm.
Between 1891 and 1900, the Lascars employed on
British ships increased by 12,000, while the other
sailors decreased by 5000. And the other sailors
are becoming less and less British, and more and
more Italian, Greek, Scandinavian, Chinese, Negro
and miscellaneous.
Labor Herald (Adelaide) :
Not one of the lawyer’s craft has the slightest sympathy
with the aspirations of the masses to lead a nobler life
and escape from the eternal drudgery to which, mainly
owing to the lega 1 profession, they have hitherto been
subject.
Which is rough on Kingston, Turner, Deakin,
Barton, Leake, Glynn, and other present-day
politicians who profess Democratic sentiments,
and have all done something to justify their
claims. Also, it is rough on the memory of Higin-
botham. And, in addition, it is arrant nonsense.
There are many scoundrel lawyers, but half the
great patriots of history were of the legal craft.
Another letter from Wyalong (N.S.W.) :
Re meeting held at Wyalong (March 27), to condemn
Holman, M.L.A., for his anti-war sentiments : The Mayor
informed the audience that he would allow discussion on
the motion, and so induced the audience to keep quiet
while the Jingo speeches were being made. When one of
Holman’s supporters went on to the stage to speak on the
motion, the Mayor declined to hear him, and put the
motion, without reading it to the audience. The crowd
rushed the stage, and, but for the police, a disturbance
would have taken place. The Mayor declared the motion
carried, which it certainly wasn’t. This is a sample of
British fair-play in Wyalong. Holman’s opponents are
afraid to call a meeting in West Wyalong, as they know
the people here wouldn’t tolerate such unfair tactics.
Holman had a majority of 100 in West Wyalong last elec-
tion.
On the Day of Humiliation it was
announced that N.S.W. Premier See, in his
official capacity, would attend service at St.
Andrew’s Cathedral. Now why, seeing that
Australia has no State Church, and the Quakers
and the Mormons are just as official here as the
Anglicans, should Premier See officially attend
any Anglican tabernacle ? The Anglican is the
official church in England and the Presbyterian in
Scotland (Queen Victoria was an Anglican in one
country and a Presbyterian in the other); in
Ireland there is no official church whatever, and
every creed scratches for itself. This makes the
official business all the more absurd. There isn’t
even that dry and fleshless thing called precedent
behind it.
In palliation of the dreadful all-round
frost achieved by the first N.S.W. “ South Africa
Day” celebration, the promoters urge that this
time they were only getting their hand in;
future “S’ Africa Days,” they say, are to be
stupendous successes. No doubt the returned
heroes will think quite as much of them-
selves next year and the year after as they do
now ; in fact, they are likely to fancy themselves
more and more as time rolls on and their hair and
teeth drop out; but that the Australian public
will increasingly admire those citizens who set out
at five shillings a day to help in choking one of the
most gallant little nations in all history, at the
behest of a venal gang of Hebrew and other
conspirators, is open to doubt.
When the Federal Government proposed
to put a small duty on paper with a view to
building up, if possible, a local paper-making
industry, Freetrader Thomson rose excitedly to
make the usual brag about how paper mills were
flourishing in N.S.W. under Freetrade, which
demonstrated that sturdy industries grew up in
the bracing atmosphere of free competition, &c.,
&c. Thomson might have added that the paper
mills of N.S.W., which employed 101 hands as
late as 1897, had faded away so completely in the
“bracing atmosphere,” &c., that in 1900 they only
found work for 46 hands. Coghlan records this
sorrowful fact on page 648 of his Statistical
Register of N.S.W. for 1900, but the Freetrader
isn’t expected to know little things like that.
A few months ago the Victorian Ministry
rolled up its shirt sleeves and announced that it
was about to furiously cut down the public ex-
penditure. Many weeks after that, when great
I ASK FOR
BREAD
AND YOU
GIVE ME A STONE .
THEY WANT SOLID VICTUALS
SUPPORT.
“ Me. John See (State Premier) responded. The com.
mittee might rely upon him for cordial support. There-
had been a desire on the part of the people to per-
manently memoralise the despatch of various contingents,
and the Government placed a sum of £20,000 on the
Estimates for a memorial to commemorate the event.
He was not going to allow that proposal to lapse.
(Cheers, and a voice from the curtain: “What about a
dinner for the returned soldiers ? ”)
beads of perspiration had worked out on its
bulging brow, this Ministry declared that it had
decided to abolish the country residence of the
State Governor at Mount Macedon. The place,
it was said, was to be sold or let. An advertise-
ment was put in the daily newspapers which had
advocated a reduction in public expenditure. The
advertisement stayed in a long time, but still
the Ministry hung on to Macedon, and when the
summer season came Governor Clarke took up his
abode there as usual. The only outcome of all
the hacking at public expenditure seems to be an
additional outlay of a few hundred pounds in
advertisements.
The new family of “spit ” jokes will now
have an innings in Westralia, Parliament having
passed an anti-expectoration-on-pavements Health
Amending Act.
“Eller.”: It is about time the N.S.W.
Public Service Board was swept out of existence,
or else it should reduce its own salary considerably.
It has only half the Departments under its control
now. The customs, excise and G.P.O. have
passed to the Federal Government, and the rail-
ways and tramways and Harbor Trust are not
bossed by the Board. While on the point, what
dose theP.S.B. mean by the word “temporary”?
I have a friend 10 years in the service, yet he is
still a “ temporary ” clerk. After another 20'
years is there a fair chance that he may become
permanent, or partly permanent ?
The anti-Australian Freetrader, in his
anxiety to prove that everything manufactured
here must needs be poor and rotten, and that
unless we firmly reject the goods of our own
countrymen and buy only from “Brummagem ” or
Germany we are Lost, falls in at times. Paddy
Glynn, whom the Crow-eaters have been unwise
enough to put into the Federal Parliament, rose
the other day to urge members not to buy the
furniture made by his constituents because it was
no good, and called on them to discourage his
constituents’ furniture industry in every way,
and always to buy from the foreigner. S.A. has
been using well-deserved language to Glynn over
this matter. Why that superior gentleman con-
descends to represent people who are so inferior
that they can’t even make a decent chair is an
unsolved mystery.
The importers’ party—the Freetraders and
hired agents of foreign manufacturers—in the
House of Representatives became red-hot with
fury, over the proposed duty on imported boots,
and one of them declared, with a thick voice and
a bloodshot eye, that “with such unheard-of
duties no ordinary man will be able to buy boots
for his children.” The Freetrade man has an in-
sulting habit of starting with the assumption that
the Australian is a born idiot who can’t possibly
make his own boots, or his own anything ; conse-
quently, he must buy the imported article—the
one with the tax on it. Why Australia pays a
lot of these cheap and nasty traitors to run down
its products, and boost up those of the foreigner,
and hold its people up to scorn as a community
that is only fit to kill bullocks, or watch sheep
fattening in a paddock, will always ’■emain a
mystery.
A certain captain of the South African
constabulary, is stumping Victorian country dis-
tricts, gathering in recruits, who are led away
with promises of Boer farms and other Boer
property, if they will bind themselves to serve in a
certain “ defence force,” not particularly specified,
the members of which must “be at the disposal of
the authorities in time of need.” The captain is
very careful to assure everybody that he is not
recruiting, but his game is so like a press-gang con-
fidence man’s that the Federal Government, if it
has not lost its last little idea of its duty and
authority, will demand explanations, and mean-
while shut down on the Cap. suddenly and
with force. Perhaps even Edmund Barton
can see that it is not the clean vegetable to send
Australian contingents to filch farms in order that
the loot may be used to decoy other young
Australians away from this country to the land of
Cohen and Cohn.
“ Kiwi,” ou Maoriland Jingoism :
Re Bulletin article on the attempted revival of
Royalty. There are signs of it here, too. In bygone
years Premier Seddon was a stout advocate of an elective
Governor. Last session when several members ventured
to criticise the Governor—dared to state that he was not
above the law—Seddon denounced them as “opposed
to all lawful authority.” Speaking a little while
ago at a banquet to some returned cohentingenlers,
Seddon denounced the anti-Jingoes as “ traitors tn the
King.” How it resembles Salisbury’s drivel about “ the
King’s rights” in South Africa! Speaking at another
war function a few days later, Governor Ranfurly fol-
lowed in Seddon’s wake about those awful anti-Jingoes,
whose conduct, he said, should be punished by “the
strong arm of the law.” This disgraceful interference by
an imported Governor with the free rights of citizens
here was actually applauded by the foolish rabble.
Again, one Shaw, with a long tail of letters after his
name and the lenged, “ Six Years Examiner in Consti-
tutional History to the Melbourne University,” has con-
tributed an article to our local Times lamenting •“ the
inroads made by popular government on the King's pre-
rogative ” !


Buy a
Lipp
Piano
Ir you want the Best
German Piano made.
Lipp Pianos have been sold
in Australia for over
35 years.
They are the most
Popular Pianos
on the market.
Thousands of Lipp Pianos
have been s£ld and given
unqualified satisfaction.
Pure in tone, and built
to last a lifetime.
*
Sold on Easy Terms.
Catalogues Free.
PALING’S
338 Georg'e-st.,
Sydney.
You Know
that****
We Know
Our business thoroughly; were it not so we should not be at the “ top of the
tree ” as sellers of Pianos, Organs, and Musical Instruments.
To know a Music business properly requires years and years of constant and
thoughtful study. We lay claim to 49 years’ experience in the music trade, and
give you the very best value obtainable in Pianos and Organs. We select our
goods with the utmost care, and sell nothing we cannot guarantee.
As an example, take a LIPP PIANO. You cannot get a better piano for
the money anywhere. They are made in a variety of models, from the Cottage
Model 4ft. 4in. high to a noble-looking Upright Grand. The Lipp factories were
established in 1831, and they hold a record of 71 years in scientific and practical
piano making.
If you want the best German Piano made
Buy a Genuine Lipp.
These grand instruments oan be bought only at PALING’S, and kindly remember
they do not sell any Bogus Lipps or Lipp systems.
Easy Terms. Old Pianos Taken in Exchange.
CATALOGUES FREE.
15he
Victor
Piano
Has proved its popu-
larity by the enormous
number of orders we
have received.
We sold last year over 400
Victor Pianos.
If you want the Best
Piano made and sold at
a Low Price,
Buy a V*
VICTOR.
and you will have a
Piano that will give you
every satisfaction.
Made in 3 models, and sold
on Easy Terms.
Send for Catalogues.
PALING'S
338 George-st.,
Sydney.
W. H. PALING & CO., Limited, 338 George-st.,
Sydney.
BRISBANE,
NEWCASTLE.
The Government inspection of the tea-
rooms and restuarants of N.S.W. Fresh Food and
Ice Co. resulted in a most flattering report
“ The arrangements for the preparation of viands,
the system of dealing with the waste, the general
cleanliness and order make the Fresh Food Co.’s
premises, an object-lesson for others engaged m
similar business.”*
VST
Koh-i-Noor
Copper-
Gilded
Letters.
For Signs .and
Shop-fronts.
ABSOLUTELY
PERMANENT.
Sole Agents:
J. Leigh Jones &Ct
267 George St.,
HYDATIDS CURED
BY
VITADATIO
AFTER EIGHT YEARS’ SUFFERING.
Symond’s Place, Adelaide,
November 7,1900.
Mr. S. A. PALMER,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Dear Sir,—About eight years ago I underwent an
operation for Hydatids. I understood at the time there
was a possibility of a return of the disease, but all went
very well until last Christmas, when I became ill, a lump
forming in my side, where I had been operated on, severe
pains ensuing, together with great weakness. I became
at last so bad that I felt like giving everything up and
dying, life was such a burden to me. I am a cab pro-
prietor, and managed to drive to your head office for
Adelaide, and there decided to take a course of
VITADATIO. I began to feel better after the fourth
bottle, and after taking nine bottles the lump has entirely
disappeared, together with all pains and weakness, and I
now feel in splendid health, and life is worth living again.
I think VITADATIO would be cheap at £1 a bottle when
it effects cures like mine.
I remain, yours truly,
J. MCNULTY.
Witness—Geo. R. Davie, Adelaide.
Mr. McNulty is a well-known cab proprietor, and may
be seen daily on the stand, King-William Street.
For further particulars ,
S. A. PALMER,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials
London Star replies to Kipling, and gives
that bounceable little bard a hot time: —
THE OAF’S ANSWER.
Fenced by our patient fathers, ringed by our peaceful
seas,
Long did we wake in quiet, and long lie down at ease,
Till you said of Strife : “ Where is it ? ” of the Sword :
“ Let it flash again ! ”
Till you made a god of wanton war and an idol of armfed
men.
We stopped our ears to the warning—we would neither
look nor heed—
We set our hate above our laws, and our lust above our
need.
Because of our witless rancor, and our pitiless pride of
race,
We grudged our brothers freedom and our friends a
resting-place.
You blustered and bragged and bellowed, and we paid
when you bade us “ pay,”
But where are the fifty thousand men that you twanged
to Table Bay ?
For soon were the judgments loosened, soon was our
shame revealed,
At the hands of a little people, few, but apt in the field.
Though now they are only a remnant (and Milner has
started his Star)
You ask for more of our millions and more of our flesh
for war.
Sons you would tear from their mothers, lads from their
lasses sweet,
And brush them under the wheels of war like the dust
and dirt of the street.
And what did you look they should compass ? Glory that
fades like a breath,
Glory to God in the highest at the price of a brother’s
death !
So ! And we asked : “Is it glory to hollow the veldt with
graves,
And to build a gilded empire on the backs of beaten
slaves ? ”
But you said:—“ The war is over ” ; but you said: —“The
end is come,”
And we swallowed the hocus of Hatfield, we swallowed
the lie of Brum.
Then we returned to our vomit, then we contented our
souls
With the kipling fools at the pothouse, and the rudyard
oafs at the polls.
Given to strong delusion, wholly believing a lie,
We saw that the war was not over, and we Let the months
go by,
Waiting some easier wonder ; hoping some saving signs,
Cheated —openly cheated—for the sake of the Sacred
Mines.
Cheated—and sick of your boasting, ah, what is your
boasting worth,
When the ink you fling is a blotch of blood on the rotting
Earth ?
Bard of the gutter Jingo, and Banjoist of the Beast,
Your vogue is the vogue of the vulture that follows the
tiger’s feast.
It was not made with the mountains ; it is not one with
the deep.
Fools and oafs devised it. Fools and oafs must keep.
Fools, not men, belaud you ; oafs, not men, adore ;
How should men applaud you, 0 Laureate of Gore f
AUSTRALIAN . . .
STAMPS
Highest Cash Prices Paid
to any amount for
Old or Rare Stamps,
Used or Unused,
The First
Australian Stamp.
m
For Sale—The Largest Stock of STAMPS, ALBUMS, etc.,
in the Southern Hemisphere.
SMYTH & NIGOLLE, n Hunter-st., Sydney
CALLAGHAN
SHOE
THIS SHOE IS PHOTO-
GRAPHED FROM STOCK.
BY
POST.
Hundreds
of Ladies
Wear
this
Shoe!
Why
Don’t
You?
sdfsd
MONEY RETURNED
IF YOU ARE
NOT SATISFIED.
Ladies ordering from the country can quite easily
get new and stylish Shoes or Boots BY POST;
they can get all the advantages in value that keen city
competition affords ; they can, by following the instruc*
tions we give below, get an accurate, comfortable fit.
L State size worn, and, if necessary, send an old Shoe as a check.
2. Place the foot upon a piece of paper and, firmly pressing it
down, draw a pencil line closely round it for shape of tread.
3. State if your foot is narrow, medium, or broad, as we have
different widths in every size.
4. State whether broad, medium, or narrow toes required.
12/11; Post Paid, 13/6
/•AMERICAN GLACE KID SHOE for LADIES,
-{ with Dressy Patent Leather Toe-cap, and new-
fashioned Collarette.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 George St., Sydney


Banking. Public Companies, &o.
Upon - all - Classes
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
a**
c#*
BILLS
DISCOUNTED-
axr.s,-w.
(Hont deplete Ltd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
CASTLE’TEAGH ST., A.
' SYDNEY '
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
'—Till?
Colonial Mutual laife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
MuUial Life Assurance, Endowiiipnts and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman ; lion. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,491,989.
Policies issued 85,372 —assuring £26,085,346.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,576,850.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses —eouitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
The Bank of (|orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director -JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... ... *700,000
Capital Paid-up £lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250 000 ... £350,000
Queensland Smelting Qompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites;'
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street. Melbourne.
Qeui Zealand Insurance (Jo.
FIRE and MARINE.
CAPITAL £1,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES .. 420,000
Largest Colonial Company.
J. A. MINNETT, q, n-xx n± Cw»J»»«w
Manager. 81 Pitt St., Sydney.
Tb* Trustees, C*€c<itorS,
AND
Ag'OCV Conppaoy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY ... £150,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) ... £BB5B
Amount at Credit of Estates. Trusts,
and Clients, 30th June, 1901 . 16,388,976
Directors : F. It. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
O. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROYVMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
7 3
5 3
The
Eoyal Bank of Queensland
J LIMITED. U
CAPITAL PAID-UP £423,000
RESERVE LIABILITY, OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 209,581
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 54,000
£686,581
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders
Total Capital
2,000,000
500,000
£2,500,000
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. of the Colonies.
Directors—Sydney : Sir W. M‘Millan, Hon. A. W. Meeks.
Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq. Wellington : H.
Beauchamp, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
; Wellington, N.Z., C. M. Montefiore.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £15,000, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties,
and £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address.— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
Shipping.
HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE'!
GEELONG
PORTLAND }
WARRNAMBOOL I
Leura, Saturday, March 15,12 Noon.
Buninyonjr, Tues., March 18, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Sat., March 22, 12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Buninyong, Tues., March 18, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Buninyong, Tues., March 18, 5 p.m.
(No Transhipment.)
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Peregrine, Sat., March 15,12 Noon.
Gabo, Tuesday, March, 18, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, March 22,12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
, Peregrine, Sat., March 15, 12 Noon.
Leura, Saturday, March 22,12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GEUALDTON
CAJUNS, &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cariro
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
WHITE STAR LINE
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
AFKIC, on or about 17th MARCH.
SUEVIC, PERSIC, RUNIC, and MEDIC
to follow.
FARES—Capetown .. .. £l3 13 0 to £2l 0 0
London .. .. 16 3 5 to 24 5 1
New York, &c. .. 22 511 to 30 7 7
Only One Class of Accommodation-
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
Huddart, parker & (Jo’s [ine
—TO—
M EL BO UltNB, H OMAI t']',
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND POUTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
a: mit:
CT JXE V
San Francisco,
California.
SPLENDID NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS,
SIERRA
SONOMA
VENTURA
Over 6000 Tons each.
8000 H.P.
Length, 425 feet,
Passengers booked through to American, Canadian and
European centres at current rates.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
OCHA JV IC STEAMSHIP CO., ITD.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., ETD.,
! Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts. “ SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
IN CONNECTION WITH
CANADIAN-PACIFIC RAILWAY.
THE “ ALL-RED ” ROUTE
via Brisbane* Fiji, Honolulu,
Vancouver.
STEAMERS SAIL-
March 24, April 21, May 13.
Cheapest Eates to America.
Special Rates, Single and
Return to London.
Send for Illustrated Pamphlet Descriptive of route.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
Bank of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Hr ad Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital 2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,270,000 0 C
Reserve Liability 2,000,000 0 0
Total 5,270,000 0 0
Directors :
Hon. Cn as. K. Mackellar, M.L.0., President.
Senator James Thomas Walker.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Hon. Henry Normand MacLaurin, M.L.C.
lion. Reghnald James Black, M.L C.
Auditors •:
A. G. Milson, Esq. J. S. Harrison, Esq.
London Office Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
T.ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects' for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behaif in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The ißank also issues Circular Notes in sums of ,£lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
DRUNKENNESS,
OJJ THE LIQUOR HABIT POSITIVELY CURED
BY ADMINISTERING
E XT C JFS. A. S Y.
It can be given secretly or otherwise in tea, coffee, or
food, and is the only remedy which can be taken at
home with certainty of success.
A REPORT.—After the first dose he was a different
man. Newcastle, N.S.W.—Dear Sir,—My husband
has been taking Euorasy regularly for five days, with the
result that it lias taken away the desire for drink of any
kind ; in fact, after the first dose he seemed a different
man. (Signed) K.E.R.
Write for book and testimonials from living witnesses ;
sent (sealed) Free. Address :
THE EUCRASY CO.,
62 HUNTER-ST, SYDNEY.
N.Z. Agency : ROBERT REW, Victoria-st., Auckland.
A POLICY FOR THE
Price (id. ;
Posted, Bd.
COMMONWEALTH
time table.
THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
N. D. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin screw.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW
GUINEA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. PAKNAM, 19th MARCH,
And Regularly Thereafter.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
30 Days’ Trial.
v:
C,
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
KELTS and
APPLIANCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which' is fully
explained in our “ ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Beits will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electrio
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt, that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing-, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers <&. Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia.
CR-A.IG & AITKEN,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 George Street, Sydney.
Sore Eyes I Blight!
USED 300 YEARS.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
Never fails. Restores Eyelashes.
HAD FROM ALL CHEMISTS.
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYESIGHT.”
Ask your Chemist for this little book.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhippingat Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Marloo,
Saturday, March 29.
(Without Transhipment).
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oairns
S.S. Allinga,
Friday, March 21.
S.S. Adelaide,
Saturday, March 22.
Rest and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A.U.S.N. Co. and Howard Smith Co.,
u' * ?or Adelaide and W.A. all tickets are inter-,
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. C,
_'oy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and OOOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly
gyj'NEY AND ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bria
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST
Fortnightly.
Monthly.
AUSTRALIA,
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application,
ror Adelaide and VV. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., Agents, 111 Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
P AND O. COMPANY’S
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON-Single, £3B 10s to £/7
Ditto Ditto Return, £7llos to £l2l
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific, and
Messageries Maritimes Steamers having room.
EDWARD TRELAWNY,
63 Pitt-street. Superintendent in Australia.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77.
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
“E. ANP A.” LINE.
. . TO . .
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Steamer.
Tns | Commander. ILeave Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN .. 3000 P. T. Helms .. March
GUTHRIE .. 2500 W. G. M‘Arthur.. 'April
EASTERN . 3600 Winthrop Ellis .. IMav
AIRLIE 2500 St. John George.. May
15
5
3
24
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastei
passenger trade, and are fitted with EVERY COl
VENIENCE FOR TROPICAL TRAVELLING.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, Unite
States of America and Europe at special rates in co;
junction with the Canadian-Pacific and other Steamsh
Companies.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
. . SMOKE. .
THE
INSIST
on having this Brand
and no other.
AGENTS
JULIUS SOLD SCHMIDTS. CO.
231 Clarence Street, Sydney^


Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Agents for N.S. Wales: Sayers,
AH port and Potter, Sydney. Sole proprietor, W.
M irtin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
15 igiand.*
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It dm as away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Everybody interested in the present war,
and concerned to know the truth about its origin,
and the manner in which it has been carried on,
should read Methuen’s “ Peace or War in South
Africa,” the best compendium of the subject
printed. Price, 6d. ; post free from Bulletin
office, Bd.
“ Sherlock Holmes’ ” swift intuition in
following clues and obtaining information secretly
is duplicated in Australia by J. W. Holdsworth
(101 Swanston-st., Melbourne), the expert Private
Inquiry and Next-of-kin Agent. His services are
in great demand by all classes.*
Physicians of the widest experience are
unanimous in the opinion that the treatment of
diseases during the coming oentury will be dis-
tinguished by distiuct departures from the now
recognised and serni-obsolete methods practised
to-day by the medical profession. Already the
application of the Rontgen Rays has effected
marvellous results in checking the ravages of that
terrible scourge of mankind, cancer, and it is
estimated that in the concentration and applica-
tion of that great electric agent—electricity —to
the human system lies the secret and cure of
many exhaustive diseases to-day prevalent _in
humanity. The science of Electro-Medication
has been exhaustively studied and practically
endorsed by Messrs. Freeman and Wallace,
Elizabeth and Bath urst-streets, Sydney, the
eminent specialists in nervous and chronic
diseases, and very successful results have been
obtained by them in their treatment of those
complaints which deplete the system of vitality
and prematurely age sufferers of both sexes. The
firm’s page advt. appears elsewhere in this issue.*
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse I lerr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
2 > of this issue *
MAKE YOUR OWN
Under the Patronage of the British Admiralty, as used
by H.M.S. Royal Arthur, Flagship of Australian
Squadron, and H.M.S. Phoebe.
/ERATED WATERS
HIAUSTRAL CRATED
MACHINE
Produces Soda Water for less than Twopence per dozen; Lemonade,
Ginger Ale, Tonic Water, and other syruped drinks at less than four-
pence per dozen. Our No. 1 Machine occupies only a floor space 4ft.
square; it can be worked without skilled labor to produce up to 150
dozen of DERATED WATERS PER DAY,
The only Machine which produces a Uniform High-Class Quality of
/E rated Waters; nothing but pure Natural Liquefied Carbonic Acid Gas
is used in conjunction with our Machines.
Numbers of our clients throughout the Commonwealth have dis-
carded other makes of Machines in favor of “THE AUSTRAL."
Statistical Reference proves that we have 10 times as many of the Austral AErated Water Machines in use in Australasia as that of
any other Manufacturer.
A FEW OPINIONS
FROM THOSE USING OUR
“AUSTRAL” DERATED WATER MACHINES.
From H.M.S. Phoebe, Sydney, N.S.W. (26/8/1)1)
“ The wardroom officers are very satisfied with the machine you supplied, and
consider that it fully meets all your prospectus claims for it.”
r (Signed) A. W. CLAXTON, Paymaster.
From R. M. KOSMINSKY, Commercial Hotel, Nhill—
“The quality of the aerated waters produced by your machine surpasses anything
I can get here I estimate my saving by using your machine at not
less than £lBO per annum.”
From G. R. DRUMMOND, Koroit Inn, Coleraine—
“ Machine works splendidly, and I am perfectly satisfied with my purchase.”
From W. SCHOLZ, Culcairn Hotel, Culcairn, N.S.W.—
“ Strongly recommend your machine to the hotel trade.”
From WHITCOMBE & CO., Hillston, N.S.W.—
“ Highly satisfied with results from your machine.”
»
Sportsman’s Arms Hotel, Star of the East, Murchison, W. A.
Messrs. Ecltersley & Sons, Melbourne.
Dear Sirs, —Received Austral iErated Water Machine, and has given me every
satisfaction. We have another hotel, and require a machine for that place, so I want
you to repeat the order the same as you sent me. Send on the machine through same
agents soon as possible.
16/11/’Ol.
Yours faithfully,
S. J. CARBERRY.
MAY 13E OBTAINED FROM THE FOLLOWING
QUEENSLAND.
W. 8. KELLY, Thursday Island, North Queensland.
JOHN CLUNN, Junr., Samarai, British New Guinea.
E. H. WALL, Mount Garnett, Queensland.
NEW SOUTH WALES.
THOS. BARCLAY, White Cliffs. N.S.W.
W. J BURBURY. Tuppal Hotel, Finley, N.S.W.
J. O’CONNOR, Mulwala, N.S.W.
FRANK STAPLES, Toeumwall Hotel, Tocumwall, N.S.W.
VICTORIA.
S. CAREEK, Terminus Hotel, Wodonga
J. MacKAY, Bennlla Hotel, Benalla.
J. MARSHALL, Farmers’ Arms Hotel, Yarrawonga.
A. M'LENNAN, Mac’s Hotel, Glenthomson.
D. M'LAREN, Mac’s Hotel, Portland.
GEORGE TALMAGE, Lessee Victorian Railway Refreshment Rooms, Ballarat,
Geelong, Bacchus Marsh and Spencer Street.
C. KLUG, Charlton Hotel, Charlton.
W. TAYNTON, Royal Hotel, St. Arnaud.
J. DOOLEY, Kyabram Hotel, Kyabram.
S. WELCH, Golden Age Hotel, Beaufort.
M. A. KERR, Tungamah Hotel, Tungamah.
J. GLUTH, Club Hotel, Orbost.
We have also received dozens of Testimonials from our Clients in
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
TASMANIA
WEST AUSTRALIA
CAPE COLONY.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE AND FULL
PARTICULARS FROM . .
EGKERSLEY & SONS, 214-216 Queen St., Melbourne
At Poverty Point.
After Bandmann had reached the third week of his
first engagement at Melb. Royal he complained that the
Arhus sent a common reporter to notice his performances
instead of a critic of established reputation, and threat-
ened to write to Edward Wilson, the chief proprietor of
the paper, then in London, and demolish the offending
parties. At his second visit to Melbourne, seven or eight
years later, he appeared in a small variety hall, and the
dog-reporter did him, and Bandmann was undisguisedly
glad to see the dog-reporter.
A bill in the possession of a Ballarat manager reads :
POPULAR CONCERT.
MISS NELLIE MITCHELL.
Admission One Shilling.
Melha’s prices have gone up since then.
Reginald Dartrey and Miss Bessie Thompson are return-
ing to Australia about the end of this year. People who
remember Dartrey as the battered old actor in “ Tre-
lawney of the Wells ’’—the one who protested against the
new order of dramatic art because it didn’t bellow as the
old order did—will be glad to see him again. And as a
coldly supercilious mother-in-law or a polished dame of
high degree who shuddered through an eye-glass at her
son’s intended lowly bride, and ordered her to be taken
away, Miss Thompson had few equals hereabouts.
When the one-time melodramatic Fechter first pro-
duced “ Monte Cristo ” in London it was past unidnight
before the curtain rose on the last act. Fechter, in the
name-part, was “ discovered ” in an attitude of contem-
plation. For some moments he made no movement, and
not a sound broke the silence, until a subdued, but
anxious, voice from the gallery observed: “I hope we
are not keeping you up, sir ? ”
Dion Boucicault, the original D. 8., was the first
manager to charge 10s. for reserved stalls in a London
theatre. That was when he produced his drama, “Led
Astray,” at the Gaiety', with two American actors in
leading parts. Previously, the price of a stall (except for
grand opera) had been three half-crowns.
Two pieces of quaint humor from London. Maxime
Elliott (Mrs. Nat. Goodwin) presided at the ladies’ dinner
of the O.P. Club, and made a short speech. Goodwin
should have spoken at greater length, but was called
away, and playwright Cecil Raleigh spoke for and as the
absent one, with sundry references to what “ ray- dear
wife ” had said. Simultaneously, at the Playgoers’ Club
(the two clubs were one until a split last year), one
Edwards was lecturing on “The Superiority of Shaw to
Shakespeare.” After which Bernard Shaw himself rose
“ to put in a word on behalf of my great rival.”
When Gerardy re-visits Australia with his wonderful
’cello he will probably make it a honeymoon tour. Many
girls in Melbourne and Sydney will be sorry 7 to hear that
Gerardy’s fate was fixed before they saw him. His
constancy to the far-away Phyllis (not of the musical pro-
fession) was something remarkable —for a ’cellist.
The dearth of good singers in- the Melb. churches is
remarked by musical visitors. Such small fees are given
that it is not worth a known singer’s while to take on a
choir. One very big R.O. church offered a visiting Sydney
tenor £l5 a year to sing twice every Sunday and attend
weekly rehearsals as well. When he scornfully refused,
a surprised and pained clean-shaven cleric explained that
he had a " first-rate man ” doing the job for five guineas
a year.
The story goes that when Melba was a young girl
living at Carlton (Melb.) her father, David Mitchell, did all
he knew to discourage wilful Nell’s ambition to sing in
public. Even then she was talking of her London debht,
which didn’t happen until she was about a dozen years
older. On one occasion she engaged a hall, and went
around the district selling tickets for a song recital on
behalf of some charity or other, but papa Mitchell also
went around desiring all kind friends to stay away from
his girl’s entertainment. He didn’t want her head turned
by this stage nonsense. As the result of the “ old man’s ”
parental diplomacy daughter Nellie was confronted by an
audience of three at her charity concert. So with an un-
turned head and a dauntless heart the young amateur
gave her trio of supporters the full programme, just as
carefully as Dean Swift executed his Divine Service duties
for the spiritual benefit of Roger, the clerk, when they
twain had the whole tabernacle to themselves.
Nobody ever saw Barry Sullivan with a stick or um-
brella. He said it made an actor lop-sided.
A London syndicate is working hard to. boom the new
Stroh violin, which has a corrugated aluminium disc with
trumpet attached, in place of the wooden box or “ belly ”
that acts as resonator in the old classic fiddle. The per-
former plays a Stroh exactly as he plays upon the strings
of an ordinary violin, but it is claimed that he gets a far
richer and stronger tone from the new instrument. Two
Strohs will serve the purpose of six fiddles pure and
simple, thereby throwing four men out of employment,
or increasing an ordinary orchestral effect threefold, just
according to circumstances. And as the Stroh disc and
trumpet can be applied to ’cello, harp and viola (it is
claimed) professional musicians are likely to lose more
than the sacred cause of music will gain by this labor-
saving invention. The enthusiasm of the Strohites is
doubtless, genuine enough. They have the testimony of
skilled performers that the new violin gives forth new
effects, but in the meantime there remains a healthy
doubt as to whether the old violin, with its more piercing
tone, is likely to be dropped. The Stroh is innocent of
“scrape.” The “scraping” of an amateur is vile. But
then the apotheosised “ scrape” is the most thrilling of all
musical charms.
“ Adelaide” : If it is easy to make fun of “On Active
Service ” (B. 15/2/’O2), what would your critic have said
of it as played here, in the height of the pro-Gore fever ?
The scene was violently changed from the Soudan to the
Transvaal, with intervals of oversight, whereby the vil-
lain threatened to throw the heroine to the “dusky
fanatics below.” Also, the comic man’s wife, who had
pursued him to the scene of war, remarked that she had
landed at Port Said. She must have walked about 4000
miles !
Verbatim copy of advertisement (in America) of a
phonographic impression of a lynching scene in a
Southern State : “ Hear the negro yell and plead for
water as the flames slowly consume him ! Get your ticket
at the counter and hear him ! This week only.” And
Britain, which professes to be shocked at the Boer’s
treatment of the black man, calls the U.S. its friend and
brother.
The theatrical libel action as we get it nowadays—Billie
Barlow v. The Bulletin, f’instance—was a thing unknown
n the ’7o’s or early ’Bo’s. Thirty years ago, Kate Santley,
ia plump, short-necked little woman, captured the Cock-
ney soul with her “ rorty ” mock-French style in opera-
bouffe. Kate amounted to an influential person in the
London mummer world. Even now she survives as sole
lessee of the Royalty Theatre, where, at latest dates, a
musical comedy, with Decima Moore and Phyllis Brough-
ton in the cast, was advertised for “two performances
daily.” And this is how the Baily’s Magazine critic wrote
of her performance of “ La Belle Helene,” at the Alham-
bra (Sept., 1873): “ We will not go so far as to say that
all the applause bestowed on Miss Santley was of a mer-
cenary character. We believe she has deservedly won the
sweet voices of the music-hall ‘ gent.,’and his applause
was genuine. On that undesirable specimen Miss Santley
lavishes her smiles ; for him she slaps her legs ; and for
him she dresses in defiance of every canon of taste, to say-
nothing of decency. And he well repaid her devotion on
the first night of ‘ La Belle Helene.’ Her most inartistic
entry was the signal for a roar ; at her first ‘ wriggle ’ to-
wards the footlights it deepened in volume, and at
‘ wriggle ’ No. 2 the house got frantic. . . . The Alhambra
proprietors, whoever they are, must be congratulated on
the possession of such a gem as our ‘ English Schneider.’
Poor Schneider ! We are no great admirers of the fair
original, but still we feel commiseration for her. At least,
she is clever, she is full of humor, she can act. We will
not pursue the contrast.” When you have carefully read
that uncompromising notice of a “ celebrity,” and con-
sider what would happen to any wealthy English-speaking
journal (outside of America) that dared to tell so much
truth nowadays, you have got an idea of how things have
changed during the last quarter-century. To say that a
modern stage-woman dresses in defiance of decency and
wriggles for the applause of a low-lived claque, would be
to rush into a law-court. But the aforesaid slating of
Kate Santley had no legal consequences. The truth was
mighty in 1873.
When Walter Montgomery and Jas. Anderson appeared
at rival theatres in Melb. in ’67, there was a fair stand-up
fight between the new or natural style of acting and the
robustious, melodramatic manner handed down by
Macready from the Kembles. Anderson, representing
the latter, went hopelessly to the wall. Yet there were
some fine points in him. He was a splendid Petruchio,
and in an heroic character like Ooriolanus, Montgomery
could not get within coo-ee of him. Ellen Tree (Mrs.
Ohas. Kean) used to say that Anderson was the best
stage-lover she had ever met. But he had outlived his
artistic time. Macready said that Fechter could not act
at all, and it is tolerably certain that the present genera-
tion of playgoers would not listen to Macready, except as
a temporary curiosity.
A very successful cinematograph show was given in a
Melbourne South suburban schoolroom one night, a week
or two back, the most popular exhibit being a realistic
fight between two liver-and-old-gold bull dogs. The dogs
rolled all over the curtain, and two experts behind the
rag lend a sound of versimilitude by growling and yapping
energetically. Suddenly, when the excitement was at its
height, a new combatant appeared on the field. With a
howl a large brown retriever sprang from under one of
the seats, climbed the platform, and went straight for the
picture. The new-comer grabbed a mouthful of the near
combatant and ate him right out of the scenery, and then
went for the fragments of the other amongst the ruins of
the screen, and worried the calico to rags before the film
was turned off. It transpired that two evil small boys,
who had seen the show before, had determined to try it
on the dog.
Violinist Bernard Walther played the “ Barnyard ”
composition at Wanganui (M.L.), and a local paper ex-
pressed regret that he should descend from the classic to
the vulgar, so to speak. Next night Walther’s co. gave a
silver-coin show, and after gazing sorrowfully at the array
of battered threepenny-bits, he said, “ Ze papier take
exception to me playing ze ‘ Barnyard ’ piece on Saturday.
Quite right. I should huff pahformed him to-night, und
I spek so : Ladies and shentlemens, I will now play you ze
threepenny piece to match so genairous contributions and
zen I make ze quadruped with ze four legs spek. Bah !
ze small silver coin ! ”
Colonel Mapleson, recently deceased in London, was
the last of the old impresarios—speculative, sanguine,
buoyant, and always on the eve of making a great coup to
retrieve himself. His line of business is now run by syn-
dicates.
Charles Arnold went over to Maoriland the other
Wednesday for the purpose of protecting his plays against
pirates in that country. Arnold’s copyright case in
Queensland was easily successful, but it cost the actor-
manager close on £5OO. Law may be the proper, re-
spectable and orthodox remedy, but still the fact remains
that £5OO is a lot of money, and Arnold could have hired
the push to sandbag the pirates for a tenner.
Kaiser Bill has perpetrated a play which, says The
Week End, is “ as bad as the best of machine dramatists
has turned out at his worst moment.” William is an
assiduous play-goer, and is given to summoning mummers
to the Imperial box between the acts in order that he may
tell them how to play their parts. Apropos: when the
first Napoleon once gave some advice to Cherubini, the
composer told him to confine his attention to mere war—
about which he did know something !
August Manns, the long-haired German who conducted
all the concerts and Handel Festivals at the Crystal
Palace (Eng.) for 45 years, has retired from his billet.
Musical people admired Manns for what he did with his
orchestras at the Cockney resort, whilst the multitude
loved him for the way in which he did it —from their
point of view. They saw his back hair waving furiously,
and were convinced that Manns was “ all right.” Manns
was a good conductor with long hair, but it is better to
be a bad conductor with long hair than a good one with
the hair short.
The Leisure Hour publishes a gorgeous account of the
annual Day of Sacrifice proceedings at the Moorish capi-
tal, where the Sultan, Abdul Aziz, is the first person to
kill a sheep and' consider himself cleansed of twelve-
months’ sin by the blood of the mutton. Morocco con-
tinues to present a fairy-tale aspect to the journalist and
comic opera writer, but The Bulletin notes, with a sigh,
the hard unpicturesque fact that 16 pairs of boots for
Sultan A. Aziz aforesaid have been made to order by one
Keily, of Melbourne, and are about to be shipped to the
brown potentate. The Sultan’s chamberlain, or some-
thing, is a son of the late George Verdon, and brother to
recently deceased Reggie Verdon, secretary of Melb.
Savage Glub. Verdon, in Africa, has seemingly been dis-
cussing the boots question with the white-robed sovereign
of the kaids and sheiks. Anyway, the Sultan desired his
Australian employee to order some royal lace-ups, elastic
sides, and bluchers from the same little factory where ho
got his own boots the last time he tripped to Melbourne,
the order came in a letter to poor Reggie Verdon who
didn’t live to see it executed, and now the Bourke-streefc
bootmaker prays invariably that Abdul Aziz is a good
mark as regards the bill. His Nibs has a No. 11 foot,
which runs into a lot of leather. “Morocco Bound ” was
revived at a London theatre the other week. The Agent-
General for Vic. ought to wait upon the manager and in-
cite him to introduce a topical song bearing on Melbourne
trade with the Imperial Court at Morocco. The Grand
Vizier might warble somewhat as follows :
Australia is advancing in the Commerce and the Arts ;
The Kangaroo wants catching—he’s a bounder when he
The Cornstalk storms the kopjes, and the Boer he slyly
shoots .
Whilst / stalk round Morocco—with my corns in Keuy s
boots.
(Now, be aisy, ye galoots !)
The countrymen of Keily
Pot the Boer, so slim and wily,
Whilst I’m conversing drily
In my styley Melbourne boots.”


Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER ....
REUTER’S
LITTLE
PILLS FOR
THE LIVER.
Are particularly adapted to the needs
of the family, act in such a manner as to
cause noinconvenience,specially intended
for the cure of all ailments arising from a
disordered LIVER and STOMACH.
JOHN JAMESON
“THREE-STAR” WHISKEY.
Agents : J. BABBE JOHNSTON & CO., Loftus Street, Sydney.
DON’T MISS THIS!
* THE REP BIRP BICYCLE
For 1902 is now on view. Every buyer should inspect our stock. Three grades of bicycles at prices to suit
all purchasers. CASH or LONG TERMS.
QOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King Street, Sydney.
Hardy’s
Absolutely Pure;
Tintara Wines
Fully Matured; 700 Medals, etc.
Adelaide:
CURRIE STREET
Melbourne:
COLLINS STREEI
Sydney:
GROSVENOR STREET
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The Champion Stakes race was satisfactory-
only in the fact that the two highest “class” performers
ran away from their three mediocre opponents at the
finish. La Carabine’s victory, though absurdly incon-
sistent with recent “ form,” was in strict accordance with
the title and traditions of the classic 3-mile event. The
champion prize never falls to a common horse. Parthian,
in 1900, is about the least distinguished name on the roll
of winners for 20 years past, and Parthian, who had no
Older horses to beat, was the best 8-year-old of his year
after MerriWee had turned rogue. La Carabine was not
the first racehorse of quality to win the Champion after
having been ignominiously beaten on the previous
Saturday.
Nevertheless, Rupert Clarke’s great mare was
the first to accomplish a remarkable reversal of form
Without exciting critioal comment in the Melbourne
dailies. On the morning after the race one turned in vain
to the “ organs of public opinion” for some explanation
bf the difference between La Carabine’s running in the
Essendon Stakes (1) miles) and the Champion Stakes.
The difference was an awful caution to punters. On the
Saturday, it was not only Wakeful who got away from
La Carabine in a fast-run race. Everybody expected the
flying mare to beat the staying mare over 1 j miles, but,
leaving Wakeful out of the question, it seemed certain
that La Carabine, if fit to race at all, should have been
equal to beating Barbarossa for the second-place money
(6200). Therefore, when both Barbarossa and Limber
had passed La Carabine in the last two furlongs of the
Essendon Stakes, the mare’s chance of recovering her
“ form ” in a three-mile race five days later looked abso-
lutely hopeless. Melb. Age said of her Saturday’s failure i
“ La Carabine made her reappearance in this race, and
ran well for a mile, but could not pace it with the first
three at the finish,” The Argus casually referred to the
lnare’s “ leg” as a sufficient reason for her sick perform-
ance.
Note what the Akgus had to say about the
Champion race, where La Carabine passed Barbarossa at
the end of a mile, and subsequently “lost” him. “It
took 3min. Bsec. to run the first mile and a half. After
that the pace was a cracker, the concluding half of the
journey being run in 2min. 35fsee. Wakeful ran past
Haymaker at the home turn, but in the straight was cut
down by La Carabine, who won easily from Mr. Mac-
donald’s mare.” Nowhere any reference to the Essendon
Stakes, in which La Carabine “ran well for a mile, but
could not pace it with the first three at the finish.” The
betting showed that Rupert Clarke and trainer Scobie
didn’t anticipate the victory of La Carabine, but the fact
of there being no suspicious circumstances attaching to
the surprise didn’t make it any the less unsatisfactory
from the public’s point of view. The Ballarat mare is an
old favorite of the public ; they knew her to be a game,
honest racer, and a great stayer, but her performance in
the Essendon Stakes had misled them as to her condition.
Why this respectable newspaper silence re the misleading
“ form ”of La Carabine in the Essendon Stakes ? Had
she belonged to a bookmaker instead of a baronet we
would have heard some remarks on the matter.
Time (smin. 43|sec.) for the Champion was
slow—2osecs. slower than the record—but the pace even
in the first half of the journey was not so easy that
Wakeful could make light of the concluding 12 furlongs’
sprint. The distance found her out. The daughter of
Nightmare got a pain in the head seemingly when it was
all over, and she staggered for a moment as though one
of her legs had given way. This was the climax of the
stable’s bad luck. Aurous ran her last race in the New-
market, and because she was disabled Revenue went for
the Australian Cup, and because he has come to grief
Wakeful was started for the Champion, only to get
second money at the cost of an awful gruelling. Luck is
consistently fick e. The Bulletin of March Ist, said :
“The Y.R.O. autumn meeting is such a pronounced
picnic— 1 on paper ’—for Mr. Macdonald’s three brilliant
performers that it almost seems advisable to predict a
series of upsets for those good things. The unexpected
happens so often to the owner on whom the sun shone
hot and strong a week previously.”
* » * *
La Carabine’s two successive wins of Champion
Stakes equal the record accomplished by Zoe in 1860-1.
Mormon, Ladybird, Strop, First King, Commotion, and
Ca bine each got home twice, but not in successive years.
Since Strop’s score (’69) La Carabine is the first aged nag
to win. In *7l Romula won, but during the 31 subsequent
years Quiver, who dead-heated with Wallace, and La
Carabine are the only names of mares in the winning list.
La Carabine was foaled in ’94, and, beginning when 2yrs.
old, has been going strong ever since. Present owner
secured her for 1200 gs. two years ago, and won it all back
over and over again in stakes alone.
* * * *
Wakeful appropriated the All-aged Stakes on
Saturday, and, with 101 b. penalty up, ran third in Loch
Plate same afternoon. The All-aged feat was an eye-
opener. Besides absolutely romping away from a field of
good ones, Wakeful traversed the mile in 1.40), and with
something to spare, too. Australasian record—jointly
shared in by Wakeful and Djin Djin—is only |sec. better.
In Britain they have speedier figures. Caiman put up
1.33 1-5, and Sir Hercules 1.34 2-5. The ’Murkan fastest
is Salvator’s 1.35£.
»*• - •
Hoop Iron, after being bought by bookmaker
Barney Allen for a S’African campaign which that wily
Hebrew is planning, nearly managed to run away with
the V.R.C. Autumn Handicap last Thursday. The gelding
was not in good condition all the same. Looks as though
Barney made a wise purchase.
* * * *
Y.R.O. autumn gathering facts Wakeful,
Brakpan, Blue Metal, Kaimate, and Felicitous top per-
formances with two wins each. Successful sires are led
by Grafton, four firsts. Pilgrim’s Progress comes next
with three, then Trenton, Metal, Australian, and The
Admiral two. Jocks F. Kuhn, R. Lewis, andF. Dunn had
each three winning mounts, and R. Brennan, G. Phillips,
E. Turner,, and W. H. Smith were each twice first past
the post.
* • • •
Biggest haul made at recent V.R.C. meet was
W. T. Nowlan’s £1763 —made up of Australian Cup and
Loch Plate wins, and seconds in Bourke Handicap and
Brunswick Stakes. C. L. McDonald finished close with
£l7l9—three wins, two seconds and one third. “A. W.
Raby” (Vic. Solicitor-General) claimed £l7Ol through
successes in Ascot Vale, St. Leger and Select Stakes.
Mr. “J. Baron” closed on £1533 as the fruits of Sir
Foote’s Newmarket cop. Then there’s a drop of nearly
£5OO.
* • * * -
V.R.C. dropped £3lOO over the 1901 meeting,
and ’tis anticipated that it will find a like shortage when
balancing up this time. Added money present year was
£450 in excess of that given last year, and though gate-
takings on latest occasion were larger they may only
make up the increased outlay.
* * * *
N.S.W.-trained nags closed on nine of 24 races
at V.R.C. Autumn meet, which, considering the few com-
peting, was good. Brakpan, Blue Metal and Kaimate
scooped two, and Milner, Grasspan and Sir Foote one
each. Events appropriated embrace gilded Newmarket
Handicap, Australian Cup, St. Leger and Ascot Vale
Stakes.
• * * *
V.A.T.C. committee talked ways and means,
and d ® cided to reduce entrance fee and swell
£l2OO aST' >nn futu n e ’ aN - Hurdles will be worth
SaSJiSr ' °“" Md aup iBooo ’ “ d
• * » •
Wind up of Rosehill (Sydney) meeting on
ownin’ dl - u draw the bi ff crowd looked for. Trainer-
stTkle wfih p had ha - rd i uck ? etfcin ff pipped in the last
tv,® i fc i Pegas T u T s lr l the Stewards' MHe and Dottswood
1°*?? Autumn Handicap. Latter finish was fiercely
*°“ ght °, ut b \ Oin, and Dottswood. They were
d K neCl f f^2o^ds - and Haphro won by a neck,
on fc Aee'nf b n^ e y ln , froat ® f Dottswood, There was a rush
on Ace of Diamonds at the last moment, but Mo. brought
the pnce down to twos in a flash. Had he kept his tail
up he would have scooped, for the Ace was never in it.
lhe Hurdle race, just won by Steelbusk, was for five
wiSf Oh q ' ,eS 10 n 0f the survival of the fittest between
winner, Oberon, Gyges, and Hander ; all four at top
pressure throughout the distance. Heydav, a Lochiil
fflke/wbh Ray - no / s stable . won the Granville
Stakes with the top-weight easily. Jockey S. Callinan,
sSi® hi d i at V tW °h PreVlo “ s l neefcin £ s . fell with Madge in the
straight just when a win looked certain. Half the field
n,r°/w P v,° Ver hln !’ and broke his le g in two places,
nlnwd nr» th ? t f he , waB "t pulverised. Alice McCarthy
ci^f« d w b starfc o f . High weight Handicap, and after
circus business, dashed into the fence and fell with her
Nel , fch ®f hor ?, e nor jockey was hurt sufficiently to
stop them starting, though no one would have been sorry
ii this rancorous brute had broken her neck.
*♦* ’ *
Doncaßter a,nd Sydney Cup weights declared
thoaf fn a w ' year tbe y appeared at the Same time as
those for the Newmarket H’cap and Sydney Cup. In view
of Sir Foote s Newmarket form the change is good. As
it is, neither race looks soft for any one. Sequence holds
pride of place in the Mile with the steadier of 10.3, Wake-
ful being close upon his heels—3lbs. less—which, all
ttnngs consffiered, what both are entitled to. Revenue
has 9.12, Caledonia 9.11, and Dandy 9.6. First named
two look accounted for, but latter isn’t at all well treated.
Success is by no means impossible to Sir Foote (9.4) and
he might have been relied upon to beat Aurous (on the
same mark) were she right. Writer would pick Sir F. as
the best of the heavily-laden lot and the probable winner
it mythical Mr. Baron ”or his trainer, Ike Earnshaw, or
both, were satisfied to let himloose. Sir Leonard (9.4) and
lerryman (8.13) are there with chances, ditto Ibex (8.12)
and Reviver (9.10). Beanba, a stable chum of Sir Foote
(8.7), Haulette (8.7), Juindo (8.3), Essington (8.2),
Felicitous (8), United States (7.11), Nymagee (7.11), Man
o War (7.10), Isa and Rejoice (7.12), Warrior 11. (7.1),
Vanity Fair (7.7), Womerah (7.10), Superb (7.3), and
Hautam (/.2) are a lot that have little to complain about,
and should all find backing if properly labelled and thev
strip fit. This is the class of handicap that Mo fairly
revels m, and whatever wins his bank balance will
probably increase.
* * * *
Sydney Cup burdens are headed by La Cara-
bine s 9.13, which she richly merits and could, unques-
tionably on her best form, hump to the front at the right
end - Wakeful’s 9.7 won’t anchor her. Sequence is hardly
worth considering at the distance (2m.). Blue Metal’s
9.5 was well earned by his Victorian achievements. Sir
Foote and Aurous (9.0) are hardly liberally dealt with.
Tarquin s owner can’t justly growl at 8.12, and Dandy, on
the same level, has better treatment than in the Don-
caster. Patronage (8.5) may win, but those behind him
won tbe in love with his burden. Lucknow (8.5),
April Fool (8.2), Reviver (8.2), Grasspan (7.12), Felici-
tous (7.12), Pelissier (7.10), Caravel (7.8), and Ace of
Diamonds (7.9) are not overtaxed—particularly the latter,
who 11 get very near owning the big money if nothing
goes amiss with him meanwhile. Horace, in the same
stable, has also been favored (7.4), and will cause Moses
generally many a qualm should the money come from the
right quarter and he lines up carrying Wootton’s confi-
dence. Of the lightweights, Lulworth, Tillimby, Lady
Darling and one or two others strike the mind as best,
but the race must be run to suit them.
* * * *
The Newmarket Handicap “form” was con-
firmed by the victory of Andorra in the Bourke Handicap
three days later. Andorra had only 21bs. more than the
weight he carried into fifth place in the Newmarket, and
getting away with the lead as before the gelding won all
the way. Considering that he had none of the “ cracks ”
to compete against this time Andorra was a pretty good
thing on paper, but the “ books ” laid 10’s and 12’s to 1
against him.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin.—Had a peculiar experience in
connection with the Newmarket just decided. The night
before the race I suffered a severe attack of nocturnal
horse, and dreamt that Bonnie Chiel won, with Aurous
second, and Sir Foote third; but on awakening found
myself head to foot in the bed, which, judging by the
result, was evidently the office to back mv dream re-
versed. But I didn’t; I backed Bonnie Chiel for a fair
stake —and lost.—R.D.
• * > * *
The moral of the Revenue case ought to be
obvious enough to horse-owners. Foul riding nowadays
is the rule rather than the exception, because the few
respectable jockeys are not sufficiently old and influential
to rank as monitors among* the low-class boA 7 s who go for
bumps and scrimmages whenever they see a chance of
interfering with a favorite. The V.R.C. stewards have
shown themselves a little less active and intelligent than
other stewards in trying to check these modern horrors
of , th ?,, 1 u rf ’ tbere fo r e it is “up against” the owners of
valuable horse-flesh to make the way of the transgressor
harder by reviving the old pace-maker system of racing,
which necessarily tends to spread the field and expose
the tactics of jockeys who are bent on mischief. Thirteen
horses started for the Australian Cup, and when
they had gone a mile of the journey the whole 13
jockeys were pulling at their horses’ heads. The slow
pace gave them all a chance to jostle and block one
another if they had been sailing under “ interference ”
orders. A “ bunched ” field racing around a circus course
means a considerable risk of unintentional bumping
and almost a certainty of trouble for the favorite if
trouble is down on the programme. Revenue was at the
mercy of circumstances when he came to grief in the
Australian Clip. To the present scribe it seemed a pr'e-
posterous thing that any horse should be backed at even
money to assert superior staying powers in a race where
there was no guarantee of a sound pace, and the character
of the jockeys was mostly worthless. Revenue got
bumped pretty badly. Then he got bumped very badly,
and seemingly this second “ mishap ” was so serious that
the favorite wrenched a pastern in the effort to avoid
falling. He came home-tenth—on three good legs and a
cronk one, whilst Blue Metal was beating Haymaker
ln Sisec., not the slowest time on record,
but lOsecs. slower than Dreamland’s race last year.
As the result of allowing a beautiful nag to run
entirely “on his own” in a field that was so long
bunched for want of pacemakers, the Macdonald stablS
may be said to have lost thousands of pounds in stakes
Revenue was reckoned good enough to win the Aus-
tralian oup, the Champion Stakes, and all the w.f.a.
races they might choose to send him for this season. And
now he is only a crippled gelding reduced, probably, to
the mere value of his hide. The odd thing was that they
didn t reckon him too good a thing to send on a long-
journey without taking some measures towards ensuring
a fair go for their money.
» • * *
Some people profess to know that the New-
market Handicap tragedy was not the result of an
accident.
* * * *
“ Tattersall ” seems to have designed a way to
drive a herd of racehorses through the provisions of the
Postal Act which aim at suppressing- his sweeps. He will
ask clients to send their sweep-money addressed to them-
selves, care of the secretary of Hobart Stock Exchange.
Thus, Josiah Tarnpley, of Richmond, Vic., would send £1
to Josiah Tamplev, care of the secretary aforesaid. In
due course, “ Tatt.” would get the letter and Tampley
the ticket. It seems as though this device might prove
temporarily successful, and there is already a heated
discussion as to whether the Federal Government should
not have another try at the work of suppression. Of
course it may yet declare “c/o the secretary, Hobart
Stock Exchange,” a prohibited address, and there will be
more trouble.
* * * •
The gifts of the Sydney Cricket Ground trustees
to the departing English cricketers were handsome
photographs of the ground during the fourth test-match.
But the gifts were only for the amateur members of the
team. Garnett and Robson, who did not take part in a
single test-match, were favored with a present apiece, while
Hayward, Braund, Lilley, and the other professionals, on
whom the burden chiefly fell, Were ignored. The N.S.W.
cricket authorities have an ignoble reputation for always
doing the wrong thing in the wrong way.
* ♦ * *
Figures for the five tests show the Englishmen
to have been beaten all along the line. Hill and Arm-
strong came out with a considerably better batting aver-
age than Maclaren. Duff was 10 runs per innings in front
of Braund, the second man on the visitors’ list, and 13
runs ahead of Hayward. Syd. Gregory beat Tyldesley’s
average, Darling was better than Lilley, and so on.
Howell and Kelly, the 11th and 12th of the Australians,
were more serviceable than any of the five (out of twelve)
men who formed the English batting “ tail.” Of the four
English bowlers—Barnes, Gunn, Blythe, and Braund—
the three latter are outclassed on their Australian figures
by Noble and Trumble, who, between them, took more
Wickets at considerably less cost. Barnes’s average of
17T5 runs for 19 wickets is a little in front of Noble’s, but
then Noble took 32 wickets in all. Braund bowled
just 10 more balls than Trumble throughout the
tests, but Trumble took seven more wickets, and the cost
of each wicket was 15 runs less than Braund’s price.
Nevertheless the bowling results are not favorable to
Australia’s chance of winning test-matches in England
this year. Their batting should save Olem. Hill and Go.
from defeat on a good wicket in a three-days’ game, but
their powers of attack have never been less promising l than'
now. Noble and Trumble loom painfully large in the
averages. They are the only two bowlers who went
to England with E. Jones, Howell, Laver and M'Leod in
’99. Jones and Howell are included with them in the
present team, and Saunders and Armstrong take the
places of Laver and M‘Leod. If the strongest English
teams don’t make big scores against the Australians this
scribe will be astonished. The batting failure of Maclaren’s
crowd was due to something besides Trumble and Noble.
• * * *
“ A. 8.” : That Barnes’s accident meant a serious
loss to Maclaren’s team is shown by the averages of Eng-
lish bowlers in the test-matches. Before his mishap
Barnes’s figures were 19 wickets for 323—an average of 17
—the best figures for the series. Gunn’s average was
about 25 ; Braund’s and Blythe’s about 30. Still the Aus-
tralian team never really collared the English bovvling.
The}' only scored 350 once, and had the visiting batting
strength come up to its paper r iputation, the t ;am would
have gone back—Barnes or no Barnes—with a far more
pleasant record. Yet Maclaren’s excuse will always be
that he was without his best bowler in three matches out
of the four he lost.
* • * *
“Adelaide”: Re the recent test-matches.
Seventeen men were tried in the five matches. Of these
M‘Leod, Laver, Eady, and Travers are dropped, and the
other 13 go to England, plus Garter. Seven Welshmen
were played, five Victorians, three from S.A., and two
from Tas., the proportion among those who go to England
reading eight, three, two, and one. The team for the
first match was made up entirely from the last Australian
XL, including all the six bowlers. The batting failing,
Duff and Armstrong replaced M'Leod and Laver, and
stayed in right through the season. At Adelaide, M'Leod
came in agai nin place of Jones. Fourth match M'Leod
and Jones both gave way to Saunders, and Hopkins
replaced the absent Darling. Both were successful. Last
match, Howell was at last dropped, and, Saunders being
hurt, Travers and Eady got in. Neither got much show,
Trumble and Noble naturally seizing the big chance
which rain gave the bowlers. Selectors’ choice was
always justified in the picking of new men, but not
in sticking to old ones. Public is thus justified in asking
whether Jones and Howell, quite useless here, will really
be useful in England?
• • * »
The test-matches in England are all to begin at
11.30 on the first day, and 11.0 on the others. Stumps
drawn at 6.30. This will give in the three days almost as
much playing time as four ordinary days here (12 to 6).
Hawke, Bainbridge, and M'Gregor select the teams, the
last-named replacing Grace. Yorkshire, Lancashire,
Lord’s, and the Oval get one match each, and the first of
all (at the end of May) is given to Birmingham, instead of
Nottingham.
• • * •
Saturday’s round of Sydney first-grade cricket
was the penultimate one, and proved interesting, the
outcome being that, near though the end is, the
winning team takes some picking. Central Cumberland
accounted for Paddington, North Sydney settled Leich-
hardt-Balmain. Paddington, Leiohhart-Balmain, and
Sydney are on the top rung now—6 points each—with
only another round to see out, though everything points
to the probability of a decider. Burwood, against Waver-
ley, notched 361, but t’others came strong, accumulating
349 for 8 wickets before light failed and caused an excep-
tionally even draw, for Waverley still had 13 to get and
two wickets to fall. O. Gregory, for Waverley, compiled
162. Sydney had a soft snap in Redfern—94 runs to the
good on the first innings. Paddington, deprived of
Trumper, Noble, and Kelly, was in a parlous plight.
With Central Cumberland’s declared closed innings of
five for 329 to go against, Paddington only hit up 240, to
which E. C. Noble contributed 84. North Sydney’s win
from Leichhardt-Balmain was a gift—six for 389 to 216.
W. S. Duff (brother of the Australian Eleven man and con-
sidered by many judges equally good) scored 120.
G. R. Clarke got 86 (run out). In the Glebe- Sydney
O.G. Trustees’ team match, former gathered 265 for five
wickets to latter’s 204. Gallagher (Glebe) was not out
with 103 down to him.
* • * *
In the Paddington-Central Cumberland match,
Pye, so consistently ignored by the selectors for big
events, made 121 and took 7 wickets for 75 runs.
* * * *
Yankee bruiser Scanlon and Sydney heavy-
weight Tim Nolan fought at Sydney Gaiety A.C. Monday
nighc and supplied a depressing show. Scanlon, slow
and clumsy, jabbed and poked gentle lefts and jolted
rights, which would have been mere thistledown had Nolan
been in condition. But he was a mass of quivering tissue
that hung in lumps over hips and ribs, and he puffed pain-
fully -after every effort. His operations consisted of
swinging rights and lunging lefts that rarely reached
within feet of their mission. Scanlon stood off, plugging
straight, mostly on Nolan’s forearm and glove—which
were kept close across his face—but often on the mouth
eyes, and nose, but beyond grazing the skin slightly he left
no trace. Punches on the kidneys made Nolan wriggle
and look as if he’d like to jump on the puncher, while In
lumbered his apparent 14st. of bulk round the square
and crouched a pronounced hunchback. At the end of
the sixth round the “wipe’ was elevated in Nolan’s
corner and Scanlon scored his second successive win :
that against Starlight a few weeks ago being the other. ’
* * * *
Champion ’rastler R. J. Scott lately took on
two men (J. Claims and J. Trainor), both splendid sneci-
mens of physical development, at a Dunedin (M.L)
athletic tournament. Style, catch-as-catch-can, and the
pair were unable to floor Scott within the prescribed
seven minutes. Scott is wonderfully quick on his feet,
and uses his long arms effectively. He released himself
by a sudden wrench from the clutches of both his oppo-
nents and collared the gold medal.
* * * *
Victorians carried away nearly all the money
from the Adelaide Wheel Race meeting—only two races
going to S.A. men. It was a contest of Victorians on
S. A. ground. A batch of well set up and fast second-class
men from the Cabbage Garden caught the S.A. handi-
cappers napping. As a result Cameron, who soon must
be classed amongst the first-rankers, fled home with the
£lOO Wheel Race prize, whilst Rolfe snatched the £3O
second money easily enough from Champness, S.A.’s
champion 50-mile road-racer.
* * * *
Cabled that two-mile bike supremacy of Otago
(M.L.) was, on Saturday, won by Palmer with half-a-
wheel to the good from Connell in 4.52 2-5. At same
meet Plugger Bilmartin gathered in the mile honors by
only Sin. from Sutherland in 2.17, but latter turned the
tables in the three-mile, getting home half-a-wheel ahead
of Martin in 7.22 2-5. Wire says the race looked good for
Martin, but he dropped back three yards from the post.
This was a two-distance championship. Martin and
Sutherland whacked the money.
* • * *
Cyclist Sutherland, who races in M.L. until the
next Austral, was flattened out by a query from a Pig
Island interviewer who was anxious to know if racing
was “ straight” in Australia. Sutherland struggled with
the question a good deal. “The special conditions of
cycle racing,” he said, ‘‘ make it necessary for various
sections in a race to combine for mutual interest, and a
particular rider’s chance may be sacrificed accordingly.
The Australian papers greatly exaggerate this feature
and its tendency to produce cronk running. As a matter
of fact the result is entirely to prevent" loafing, and to
provide exceptionally fast racing.” Sutherland might
also have added that riders often voluntarily sacrifice
their chances when asked in a nice quiet boodle tone of
voice to fall behind in favor of a well-backed “ pea,” a
little act of graciousness which isn’t forgotten when their
day arrives for a flutter on their own.
* » * *
Sydney bowls pennant tourney is nearing the
end. Saturday witnessed Redfern and Ashfield drop
out, defeated by Petersham and City, as named. Latter
won easily by 46, but former just barely squeezed through,
with only two to the good. Three left in are City and
Petersham (undefeated), and Waverley, with one licking
against it. Judges opined that Redfern or Petersham
would win right out, and the result of their meeting
justified the doubt as to which was the better team. Had
Petersham got Saturday’s match with Waverley, that
would have ended the “B” tussle, but as Waverley
triumphed (with a lead in every link, arid 31 in the full
totals), there’ll be another fight ’tween the same sides
this Saturday.
* * * *
S.A. tennis supremacy contest revealed unsus-
pected talent, notwithstanding that Ballarat crack Heath
wrested the championship from Bowen, previous holder
for years. Record entries resulted. Hitherto unknown
men—Turner and Murray—ran Heath into five sets before
he won the singles premiership. This is the second time
other Staters have seized the S.A. blue riband. Kearney
did it two years ago. Heath was runner -up
last year when Bowen squelched him in three straight
sets. Heath’s success isn’t quite what it seems
owing to the fact that Bowen was decidedly ill and had
been medically attended on the eve of the challenge
round. Heath, in conjunction with J. R. Baker, also
secured top-rung position in the doubles championship.
Baker and Bowen, together, have carried this event six
times. Though Heath had previously shaped well in
inter-State tennis at Sydney and Melbourne, these are his
first achievements in the absolutely best class. Westralian
reps., Kelsey and Greayer, failed to rise above mediocrity
and were put out of the hunt during the initial batch of
heats. Home champion, Miss Payne, got through the
ladies’ events brilliantly, gathering three championships
through particularly good volleying. Victorian ladies
were badly beaten. Miss Payne also annexed the Ladies’
Single Handicap, thus repeating what she did in the Mel-
bourne inter-State tourney last November.
A Pathetic Parting.
A writer recently described the light-hearted
manner in which modern people say good-bye
at wharf or station. He tells how people set
out on a long pilgrimage with the prospect of
never seeing their friends again, and they say
farewell as if it were quite a jolly affair after
all. There are still partings at which anguish
keeps the tongue silent and the cheek wet.
But there are partings which should be merry,
partings which we should celebrate like a
wedding. It is a pleasure to chronicle such
partings, and consequently, we make public the
parting of Mrs. S. Aust, who resides in Hornsby-
street, Maldon, Vic., when she said a long good-bye
to headaches and nervousness. Her letter reads
as follows: —“I have great pleasure in testi-
fying to the good results I have obtained from
the use of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. For
some time I have suffered with severe pains in
the head, also nervousness, and after taking two
bottles of these pills, I had great relief, and I
can conscientiously give them a good word
wherever I go.” Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills are a perfect blood purifier, and a positive
cure for biliousness, indigestion, constipation,
headaches, sallow complexion, liver and kidney
troubles, piles, pimples, boils and blotches, and
for female ailments. Sold by chemists and
storekeepers. Is. l|d per bottle, or six bottles
6s. 6d. Sole proprietors, The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd. (Australasian Depot) 58 Pitt-street,
Sydney. Packed in amber bottles, and the full
name blown thereon.


SOUTH AFRICAN
DIAMONDS
Have risen as much as 50 per cent, in price, but
we have not increased the price of our Diamond
Jewellery 1 per cent.
The Star illustrated forms Brooch and Pendant,
and is set with 43 Diamonds.
The Modern flrt Jewellery go.
187 Pitt St., Sydney (next Shadier’s Cafe).
>
£35.
Fob the GYMNASIUM . . .
AND THE HOME . . .
FULL STOCKS OF LATEST
j ßoxing, Tennis, Golf, Baseball Exercises,
Football Requisites
All these goods are the Latest Patterns, and just landed ex Omrah.
Massey-Harris Showrooms—3s7 George-st., Sydney.
An EYer-
Increasing
Reputation
The name of
Cfte n.S.m. Tmb Tood $ Tcc Co. Etd.
*is a household word throughout the State. For
over Forty years it has stood as a . . .
Synonym of Excellence and Purity.
PASTEURISED MILK •
“GOLDEN STAR ” BUTTER
CLEAR CRYSTAL ICE.
FISH, GAME & POULTRY
CAKES, PASTRY, etc.
Deliveries prompt and regular in all
parts of City and Suburbs. Parcels
packed for the Country.
Head Office and Works:
Harbour Street « « SYDNEY
■ 7
aajiUV
HEBBLEWHITES
377 George-St., Sydney.
DIRECT IMPORTERS—
Sgwipg MacbiQcs, Bicyclg Sflpdrigs,
Lett*r-FHipg CabipetS. . . .
PRICE-LIST OF SEWING MACHINES:
WILLCOX & GIBBS,
NEW AUTOMATIC
Hand Machines .. £7 5 0 No. 3 Drawer and
and £7 10s. Cover (as print).. £9 9 0
No. 1 Treadle .. 8 0 0 No. 3£ Cover, 3
No. 2 Treadle and Drawers and Flap 10 10 0
Drawer .. .. 8 6 0 And upwards to .. 18 18 0
' NEW VICTORIA,
Silent, Light-Running Lockstitch.
Hand Machine and Cover £3 10
No. 32 Cover, Drawer and Treadle .. 4 6
No. 34 Cover, 3 Drawers and Drop-leaf 6 0
No. 36 Cover, 6 Drawers and Drop-leaf 616
0
0
0
0
NO TIME PAYMENT.
All above Prices
are on a . . .
SPOT CASH BASIS.
Why pay Exorbitant Prices when you can Buy for Cash
WEPPIN6 PRESENTS
Our Enormous Stock is replete with them.
INFINITE IN VARIETY —because the best are culled from
each good maker.
EXTREMELY LOW IN PRlCE—because the Cheapest lines
are secured by our Home buyer.
EXCEPTIONAL IN QUALITY —because we must maintain our
reputation for Best Qualities.
Our Reputation controls our income and so is of vital interest
to us.
We excel in Solid Silver Goods—which
we sell as low as Electroplate.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
London Prices
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 HUNTER STREET.
Sterling silver Eau-de-Cologne Oaeee,
l5/6, 17/0, 26/-.
N.S.W. DEPOT-
ISO CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
WE PIT
Solid
Rubber
•a*
< i
yrcs.
to Vehicles of all Description-
New or Second-hand.
Solid Rubber Vehicle Tyres
should be fitted to all vehicles. They stop all noise*
vibration, and double the life of your vehicle.
Our tyres contain absolutely the finest rubber, and will last
years on a private vehicle. Send for artistic Catalogue and price list.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Aust. Ltd.,
108 flinders St., Melbourne, and at Sydney, Adelaide, j_ Perth, Brisbane, & Christchurch, N.Z.
fdj
DUNLOP-KELLY
Solid
Rubber
are made of Purer Rubber, are
fitted better, and will Run Longer
than any other VEHICLE TYRE
procurable. i——L.
South Australian 8-oar supremacy on Port
River, Saturday, brought out three crews and some sen-
sations. Mercantile and Adelaide fouled immediately
after “ go,” and a fresh start saw “ Mercs ” fill and swamp.
Port 8 just had time to run their shell ashore to save
sinking, and, after up-ending, went after Adelaide, whose
cox. did his best to run a ketch down. Meanwhile
“Ports” were coming up with every ounce on, but only
arrived in time to finish 1J lengths away.
» * * *
“Raupo” writes: N.S.W. swimmer R. Cavill,
before going to Wanganui, caused a pretty considerable
amount of wonder among swimming circles here (Wel-
lington, M.L.) by beating our crack, F. Roberts, with his
legs tied together at the ankles (Cavill’s legs—not
Roberts’s). Distance, 50 yards. No time was taken, as
no one realised soon enough that the thing was meant
seriously, but Roberts’ time for the distance is 29 to 30
seconds, and he was all out. Apparently Cavill can sprint
almost as well with his legs tied as loose.
* * » *
“ H C.C.” : In a Maoriland city the other day,
when some betting cases were brought on, the local!
Bench was packed with J’s.P., many of whom were-
habitual shirkers of duty. The cases were remanded to
appear before the magistrate, whereupon, on the
appointed day, two justices also appeared and claimed
their right to seats on the Bench. In the first case the
magistrate said that a majority of the Bench had decided
to dismiss the charge. He made no disguise of the fact
that he wasn’t the majority. As regards the second case,
the magistrate said that on his ovvn initiative he would
have committed for trial, but again a majority of the
Bench had decided to dismiss the charge. Another
betting-shop was raided. Every witness refused to say
whether he had or had not betted with accused, on the
plea of risk of self-incrimination. So the case went
slowly. At last a cabby stated, without objection, that
he had made no bets, and it was only after long delays
and many inquiries as to whether he was incriminating
himself dr not that he admitted he had just dropped in.
There is no other kind of case where it is so diffi-
cult to get a conviction, and there is no other kind
of case where the Bench and the witness-box smell
so highly of corruption, and the desire to pour Condy’s
fluid over the lot is so overwhelming. The tote has no
secret fund with which it can pollute the fount of justice
—and possibly the fount rather likes being polluted.
Clem. Hill completes his 25th year, March 18th.
Two of his brothers are playing in Adelaide club cricket,
and a third is in the Prince Alfred College first XI. whence
Clem, stepped straight into Inter-State cricket, and
thence, with but a short interval, into the Australian XI.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin, —I took a share in Tatt.’s sweep
some time ago. I fully expected to get, at least, £10,000
out of the affair; and had made up my mind as to what
I’d do with it all. The local hospital was to benefit by
£500—there was to be a new ward called the McGinty
Ward. Each of the seven churches would get £20 ; all
the youngsters were to go to college and be doctors—
girls and boys alike. Also, a house, that 1 had myself
designed half-a-dozen times, was to be built, at a cost of
£1500 ; and a considerable amount would go for new
false teeth and hair-dye. Then I was to marry the house-
keeper ; and look young, and be respectable for the term
of mv natural life. Further, in the event of not captur-
ing the ten thou., I had carefully considered what I’d do
if I got, say, the £100 cash prize. I even spent, in my
mind, the modest fiver, should that paltry amount happen
along. I didn’t win anything, but I had a glorious time
anticipating, and shall never be without a share again,
whilst I can possibly raise the needful. I never use
stimulants now—never require ’em—and have, thanks to
Tattersall, given up drink altogether. I reckon on
winning another £10,000 or so shortly ; but am going on
a new tack altogether this time. The programme includes
a trip right through America, taking Kamschatka on the
return journey. \Vhj r should such cheap fun be taken
from me?—Yours, etc., McGinty.
♦ * * *
“ Scrap” : Didn’t like M’Growan-Tweedie fizzle
last week from the start. M‘Gowan rushed and hit too
recklessly considering he knew how clever Tweedie was.
Time after time Tweedie could have smashed any part of
the Melbourne mannikin’s mug, but didn’t—simply
jumped back and fended M'Gowan’s left and right swings,
which were hurled as if only a suspended ball had to be
hit at. Once Tweedie’s nose evidently itched severely,
and he stopped operations to rub it while t’other con-
siderately waited. The thing wore a most unwholesome
appearance. Further, Tweedie never trained fairly and
squarely an hour, and had his “ good time ” at night as if
the fight was months ahead ; the probable outcome seem-
ingly worried him little.
Apropos the row re the proclamation by
the O’Seeullivan Government of St. Patrick’s day
as a N.S.W. public holiday. When last year a
holiday was proclaimed on the 17th of Ireland the
cheerfullv-aceepted pretext was that it was
desired to honor the gallant Patlanders who were
so bravely fighting the battles of the Empire in
S’Africa . Well, what’s the matter with the
gallant Irishmen now ? Aren t they still bravely
fighting in S’Africa (and moonlighting in Tip-
perary)? Fact is, Australia was blood-drunk last
year and it isn’t quite so blood-drunk now.
Judge Heydon, of N.S.W., made a great
and angry row in court last Monday because he
found that in a case heard by him during the
previous week—a case where the jury had
apparently embittered him by failing to convict
all the accused—one juryman was a man who had
served 18 months in goal for a matter relating to
a cheque and who was still under surety to be of
good behaviour. Judges are much addicted to
strange breakings-out of this sort. In the case
in question the juryman was summoned to attend.
He would have been heavily fined by Judge
Hevdon if he hadn’t attended. But when he did
attend, and the jury (of which he was only a unit)
didn’t decide as Judge Heydon thought it should
have done, His ’Onah took the opportunity to
relate in open court the story of his past, and
complained of his being on the jury. It was no
fault of his that he was there, and His ’Onah
ought to have dropped (privately) on the people
whose fault it was. The course he took looked
like a sour, mean, revengeful, small-minded
business.
The plague is apparently diminishing in
Sydney—in fact, at time of writing it appeared to
be almost extinct. But Brisbane, which is
probably dirtier than Sydney, with no decent
te: esdhe
five eases were discovered, which, in proportion
to population, was much the same as a record of
21 in one day in Sydney or Melbourne. Also four
more wei-e suspected, and if they prove to be real
plague then the day s record would be nme-equal
to nearly 38 m Sydney or Melbourne. Last
plague season the heaviest death-rate was at Rock-
hampton. Queensland seems likely to hold the
record this time also.
Quite a number of Australian non-Jingoes
will sympathise with General Methuen in his
latest misfortune. The cable states that he, with
a number of officers and men and four guns, has
been captured by De la Rey after a fight in
which 30 British were killed and wounded,
Methuen himself being wounded in the thigh,
Years ago “Paul” Methuen was a constant
visitor to the Savage Club, London, where
he foregathered with many Australians, all
of whom fell in love with his charming
manners and manly and generous nature. His
captor, De la Rey, is universally reputed a brave
and chivalrous soldier, and the sort of man from
whom a wounded foe might expect nothing but
kindness or- °
The “Spanish Prisoner” swindler, who
has been exploiting the fools of the world for years
past, has started a new game, showing much of the
wisdom of the serpent. He invites aid on shares
for the recovery of some £Bo,ooo —stolen and
planted, but at present ungetatable by the
advertiser. Fools who bite at this bait won’t dare
to squeal—the money being admittedly stolen.
“Mr. 0. Y. O’Connor, C.M.G., Engineer-
in-Chief at Perth (W. A.) has committed suicide at
Fremantle. It is believed that his mind was
deranged by trouble in connection with the Cool-
gardie water scheme.” No wonder, poor man !
The Victorian State Government is going
to sue Dr. Wollaston, the head of the Customs
Department, and Attorney-General Deakin for
income-tax, by way of deciding whether Federal
officials have any right to claim exemption. The
question is one of importance to all the States,
which will lose considerably if the Federal officials
succeed in their sordid attempt to avoid bearing
their share of the public burdens.
Advt. from Australasian :
STAFFORD —SMITH.—On the 30th January, at 32
York-place, Parkville, by the father of the bride,
Edwin Stafford, of Meredith, to Caroline (Carrie),
eldest daughter of the Rev. R. J. Smith, 8.A., of
Wentworth, N.S.W., granddaughter of late Richard
Pennefather, Esq., Balinira, Co. Tip., great-grand-
daughter of late Mrs. T. H. Going, Myalive, Glebe,
Co. Tip., and great-great-granddaughter of late
Honble. Walter Shirley, brother of the late Lord
Ferrers, Leicestershire, Eng.
The noble importance of being great-great-grand-
daughter of the brother of a Lord, and having two
relations who came from ‘ ‘ Co. Tip.” I
SORE EYES.
The remedy—Morris’s Imperial Eye Ointment
—is acknowledged the only certain remedy; never
fails to give instant relief. Refuse all others and
get the genuine. Pots 2s. Sold everywhere.*
On Thursday night last as many of the
Sydney detectives as could ease off chasing the
nimble-footed burglar and the slippery dispenser
of drinks after hours, assembled at Sydney
Trocadero Cafe to eat a farewell dinner with Supt.
Camphin, who goes to Europe and America on
six months’ leave of absence before retiring on a
pension. Mr. Camphin was presented by the
headquarters staff with a pearl and ruby scarfpin
with an appropriate letter. The general staff of
society watchdogs presented him with a fin a
ivory-handled, silver-mounted malacca cane, with
his monogram engraved ; a silver cigar-case, which
Detective Roche filled before passing it over, and
a gold-mounted amber-mouthpiece in a silver
cover. After which the usual speeches were made,
and toasts given, and Supt. Camphin floated out
of active service.
“ Banjo” Paterson is a man who knows
much about horses, having worshipped them
from his youth upwards. Also, he was in General
French’s famous dash to Kimberley and the wild
race to head-off Cronje at Koodoosrand, in which
two operations French’s force rode 10,000 horses,
more or less, to death ; and therefore Paterson
ought to know something about what sort of horse
is wanted by the army. And Banjo says
straight that the kind of horse that is required,
the enduring, long-lasting weight-carrier, is very
scarce here, and the fact that the War Office buys
most of its horses elsewhere is really a proof that
the W. O. knows something about its business.
It is a straightforward, uncompromising statement
which is not calculated to cause the Australian
horse - breeders’ collective head to swell, and
coming from the man who created Pardon, the
Son of Reprieve, it is impossible to do otherwise
than give some credenee to it.


TO CURE SORE EYES.
Apply Morris’s Imperial Eye Ointment, and
avoid intense suffering. Never be without it.
Over 50 years in use. Refuse all substitutes.
Pots, 2s. ; sold everywhere.
“ SHARFSHOOTIMG
For Sport and War ”
fd
By W. W. GREENER.
Hits the Mirk!
1/- NETT.
If you wish to know how to guard the
Empire—if you are one of those who will
rally round the old flag—read this book.
It teaches all about Rifles and Rifle
Shooting, how to aim and make allowance,
Sic.., and it contains chapters on Ranges
and Ride Clubs, with a history of the part
played by the Armed Civilian in the past.
The Best Shilling’,s Worth ever Published !
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations for 1/- nett.
Of all Booksellers, orC.W. Auckland, Agent
for VV. YV. Greener, 317 Collins St., MELB.
twi w» *mvrnixrrrr*fi\
IRI
El
mm
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is ‘'Elis’ King Street Coffee Palace," ~W|
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor — GEO. W. ELLIS.
LATEST X
a
", •:■:
m? ■
A
wt
m
ws
ssrc
Zm
\
►7<
52®®2.©:^2<c4
■,
\ 8
5221
mmmm
wiili
jfd
V.
CANNOJ
•
| ATE ST
.
'fAVORI'T^;
j
Ml
Sole ao For
,ii STRALAS Nv. watscns chamsers;
1 x (V.ELBOURNE.
UNDER DISTINGUISHED
fdj
ROYAL PATRONAGE.
m
m
m
s m
Siif?
-A
mm,
i#
■
l
1
w
g§
12
a
af&
1
1
From H.R.H. PRINCESS HOHENLOHE.
(The German Ambassador's Daughter.)
“ • KOKO ’ lor the Hair is the BEST Dressing I
know, it keeps the head cool, promotes growth,
and 1b in EVERY way excellent.
PRINCESS HOHENLOHE.
Recommended and Used byH.M. The
Queen (of Greece). Princess Victoria
(of Schaumburg Lippe), Princess
Hohenlohe. Princess Marie
(of Greece), Princess Henry Keusß,
Rear-Admiral Tinklar. to, &c.
KOKO I Qlt THE HAIR
1 1 1 is a tonic, cleansing, invigorating preparation, causes the hair to grow, keeps it soft and pliant, iimparts
j to it the lustre and freshness of youth, eradicates dandriff, prevents hair from falling, is the most
ill cleanly ol all hair preparations, and is perfectly harmless.
OLD PfiOPkß UKE IX
111 for its wonderful power to invigorate decayed hair, and induce an entire new growth'when that is possible,
MIDDUMGEI) PEOPLE UKE IT,
111 because it keeps dandriff away, and makes the hair grow thick and strong.
VOUNG LADIES UKE IX
ill as a dressing, because it gives the hair a beautiful glossy lustre, and enables them to dreßß it In what-
||l ever form they wish, where it will remain.
CHILDREN LIKE IX.
Mi because it keeps the hair and scalp cool and clean, allays irritation, and keeps the hair in whatever
l|l position desired.
THEY ALL LIKE IT.
| i because it is pure as crystal perfectly colourless, contains no poisonous substances, dye. sugar of
| lead, sulphur, nitrate of silver, or grease, does not soil or colour the scalp, face, or the most delicate
fabric in clothing, produces a wonderful, pleasant and cooling effect on the head, and no other dressing
I [ is needed to give the hair the most elegant appearance possible. Try it once, and you will use no other.
jdf
Is., 2s. 6(1., and 4s. 6d., of all Chemists, Hairdressers, Stores, &c.
Australian Depot: Koko-Maricopas Co., I*d., 14, Castlereagh St.,Sydney,N.S.W.
CAUTION.—See that this Registered Trade Mark is on every bottle.
fdj
(VI ELLIN’S
FOR INFANTS
FOOD
AND INVALIDS.
Is adapted for use from birth.
Send for Pamphlet and Samples to GOU IN & CO 562-4, Bourke Street Melbourne,
172, Clarence Street, Sydney, Greulell Street, Adelaide, and Wellington.
Hellln’s Food Company for Australia and New Zealand, Ltd., 56, Cannon Street, London, Entf
‘ 0., from Maori 1 and :—“Remarkable bow
%noraut some people are concerning matters of common
knowledge. A man remarked, t’other day, that he had
a presentiment that he was going to draw a horse in
Tatt’s sweep.. If he did, he would race it himself. He
seemed to think that a bagful of live horses was hung up
and the animals drawn out, one moke at a time."
* • * •
The Premier jock of Northern Vic. is a half-
caste Mongolian. He is also a top-notch trainer. At re-
cent Echuca races he was much in evidence as owner,
trainer and rider. At the same meeting the hurdle race
was won by another half-caste. The local Ohows were
present in force, and backed the mounts of their“ semi-
coinpatriots ” every time.
* * * *
An item of grim humor comes from Maoriland.
A well-bred galloping “ frost ” who never won a race, and
cost his syndicate a pretty heap of coin, at last found his
way to an undertaker’s hearse, and lately pulled one of
his former owners along to his last home.
* • • *
There is a little racecourse near Hobart which
has got the name of “ the regatta ground ” —because the
races there are mostly pulling ones.
* * * *
Two cocksure individuals of horsey aspect
turned up with a demure-looking prad for a trotting
razzle in a somnolent M.L. town, but preserved a golden
silence’ as to the clock-breaking capacity of this “ dead
bird.” Their advent had been looked for, however, for
same night the moke vanished most mysteriously, and on
race morn the sight of two cursing individuals poking
into stables and searching wayside paddocks was remera-
bersome. The deceptive-looking flier was scratched one
race at a time in case it should turn up during the day,
but it hasn’t been visible since.
* » * *
Legislation is once again urged regarding the
control of stallions in M.L. This time, the wail comes
from the Stock Department. Govt. vets, say it is scan-
dalous that so many unsound horses should be allowed to
perpetuate. The Department recommends that the
annual examination of all horses intended for service
should be made compulsory ; licenses be issued, and pro-
hibition applied to those unlicensed. Spider-legged, ill-
bred weeds are plentiful, particularly in the so-called
hack-racing class. They are trained before they have
time to develop, and, suffering from an inherited weak-
ness, soon crack-up. England was, at one time, the land
of equine weeds and wrecks, but a bygone king, of ill-
favored memory, appointed inspectors, with power to
slaughter stallions and brood mares which were below
standard. But for that drastic proceeding, the English
cavalry-man would have had to walk after his enemy in
many a glorious campaign.
• * * *
The names bestowed by one M.L. racing man
on his gee-gees have a political flavor —Female Franchise,
Social Pest, Land Tax, etc. They are mostly descended
from a mare named Policy.
* * * *
“J.A.0.”: Re Mr. D. O’Connor’s recent sug-
gestion, in a Sydney paper, that “ Tattersall ” Adams
should transfer his “ consultations ” to Noumea. The
French Government would probably not permit it. They
stopped the parimutuel, the original totalisator, which
used to do a roaring business, particularly in Paris.
“ Tatt.” might have a better show in Samoa, where the
local Chamber, as reported in a British paper, has granted
a gambling concession, on Monte Carlo lines, for 99 years.
But seeing that the Federal Government has stopped the
letters of a Hamburg lottery man it would probably stop
“ Tatt’s.” also, wherever he went. What’s the good of
“ Tatt.” going anywhere if he couldn’t take his business
with him ?
* * * *
“ 11. D.” makes a suggestion : “Could not letters
to ‘ Tattersall’s’ be addressed ‘The Treasurer, Tas-
manian Govt., Hobart.’ The State Treasurer is a
verv honest man and could be trusted with the money.
The Federal Post Office could not refuse delivery of letters
addressed to the Tasmanian Govt., and it is a simple
matter of arrangement between the high contracting
parties.”
* * * t
N.S.W. show-jumping nag, Archie, died at
Penrith recently. He was 16 years old, had spent nine
in business, and won over £6OO in prizes as a hunter and
heavyweight hack. Well-known ’cross countryman Roots
always rode Archie.
• *
At a free and festive country race meet re
cently an obfuscated jock, cordially slapped the president
on the back and asked him how his blanky brother was.
(The brother was in gaol.) The indignant official hastily
summoned the stewards, who decided to disqualify the
unregenerate one for the meeting on account of his con-
dition. A minute later it was discovered that the
bibulous mannikin, who rode best that way, had been
engaged to ride the president’s two horses that day.
Resolution was hastily cancelled and an official told off to
keep the brief and hazy lout away from the pewter pot
until' he got through his two races, both of which he
won.
* * * *
The familiar bald and grey-whiskered motion,
urgihg that the tinkling tote should be laid aside for fire-
wood, Was duly proposed as per custom and carried with
great unanimity by M.L. Council of Churches lately.
How delegates to these councils would fill in time if they
hadfl’t the-tote and the “ abawminable ” liquor tariff to
babble about writer doesn’t know.
• * • *
The Albert Cricket Ground, Sydney. “A
beautiful field for seeing is this, made on the old-fashioned
dripping-pan model. I do not know an important cricket
venue to compare with it structurally. Everyone of the
nearly 40,000 present would get a good view of the
play.”—London Referee.
* * • *
Hollowing on Duff’s recent Melbourne success,
London Referee told its readers this :—“R. Duff, who
made the highest score in each innings for the Australians,
is a gurrev man, having been born at Thornton Heath.
He learnt his cricket on the Whitgift Grammar School
Ground, Croydon, his mentor being Thompson, an old
Surrey professional. Duff emigrated some six years
since.” Which is not at all bad iri face of the fact that
Duff first saw light in Sydney, and hasn’t been outside
this continent.
♦ * * *
Armstrong, the new Victorian batsman, by the
aid of not-out innings, just beats the consistent Clem.
Hill for best average in the test-matches. His aggregate
is 159, and his average 53. Clem’s aggregate is 521, and
his average 52, Hill has been wonderfully consistent this
season, and only wants 38 in the return S. A.-Englishmen
match to complete his 1000 for first-class matches. As
there are only 10 fixtures this will mean 100 per match.
* * * ■ *
Novice bruising inflictions are being perpetrated
In Sydney again. Promoters see in them a means of
making a sure “ bit ” because they cost little and may be
wretched over several weeks. The pug game is, through
this, getting a big set-back —which means killing the
proverbial goose. Nothing is more degrading than these
cheap and nasty competitions. Competitors come from
the holes and alleys of the city, untrained, unwashed,
and un-anythinged, with as much idea of boxing as of
flying, and a majority are there only to get the “half-
caser ” beer-money offered to everyone toeing the mark.
Unkempt, pot-bellied, dirty-legged, sockless gutter-
bullies are the rule among the entrants, though here
and there one finds an exception, and marvels how he
got to that level. Novice tournaments in the past de-
veloped good men—Johns, Bob Turner and eo.-but
material bias degenerated since, and isn’t likely to im-
prove with years, judging from appearances.
* • * *
Peculiar that since Nov., 1900, W. Turnbull—
frequently dubbed premier amateur cyclist of N.S.W.-
hasn’t won a championship ; yet every test to guide in
the selection of a representative for other State meetings
has resulted in Turnbull being successful. Throughout
this season he has filled second place in the half, one,,
five and ten mile amateur supremacies of the continent,
and occupied the same position in the five-mile Common-
wealth Championship last January. What luck !
# m * *
Superstition that contestants in long distance
Pike struggles lose much tissue is knocked out .by results
of recent six days’ grind in New York. Details are in-
teresting : Winner M‘ achern scaled on finishing, 1581 b. ;
he slept 14 hours. Walthur lost 111 b., slept 12 hours, ate
three meals daily of chops, chicken, rice, oranges, apples,
and grapes, and drank milk and broth. Otto Maya
(1741 b.) gained 111 b. He had 36 hours’ sleep. Wilson
made 41b., slept 34 hours, ate chops, chicken, boiled and
fried eggs, and drank in one week 12 dozen bottles of
prepared milk and eight dozen bottles of Vichy water.
Munro never lost an ounce, and slept 6 hours, ate chicken
porridge, steaks, chops, eggs and celery. He drank 9
bottles of beef-tea and 36 bottles of Vichy water. Bab*
cock had only one sleep of half-an-hour, and gained 21b.
Turville gained 31b. He slept but 4 hours, ate oysters,
steaks, chops, ham, cheese ; and he drank four dozen
bottles of milk, 8 bottles of ginger ale, 6 bottles of sherry,
6 bottles of soup and 15 svphons of soda.
* * * *
Although M.L. League of Wheelmen doesn’t
officially recognise road races it takes more than a fatherly
interest in them and insists that snowy-white amateur
winners must accept trophies as prizes. So that when a
hamatoor gets home in front of a cash man he gratefully
carts away a tin mug, or something not near the value of
the advertised prize, while the runner-up pockets golden
sovereigns with the bald head of our beloved monarch
thereon. The Amateur Athletic Association now decrees,
on the other hand that an amateur competing with pro-
fessionals forfeits his status.
* * * *
A pair of pants was offered as a “trophy ” for an
amateur athletic event at a recent M.L. sports meet. More
serviceable than a tin mug, no doubt, but surely the con-
trolling association will not sanction such prizes in future.
Amateurs have enough prize shoddy piled on to them as
t is.
* * * *
Peerless ped. M‘Lachlin put up a hot 220yds.
run at Hawkes Bay (M.L.) Caledonian Gathering on Feb.
19th—21 2-ssec. from scratch, beating Harry Hutchens’
21 4-ssec., and running l-ssec. under Wefer’s amateur
record in U.S.A. In the 440yds., same day, M'Lachlin
ran home in the clinking time of 49sec. dead—fsfc.
behind Buttery’s world’s (pro.) record, and lsec. worse
than M. W. Long’s brilliant amateur run.
* * * *
“Via”: Re chess-playing cranks, the asylums
are full of them. At Goodna (Q.) lunatic asylum there
are a number of patients, troubled with a “ rush of rats ”
in other directions, who play the game for all it is worth.
Apropos years back, the writer lived in the same Brisbane
hash-house with Whistler, the British champion. When
he took an evening doze on the verandah his fingers
strayed over his lap all the time, and I could tell when he
shifted a knight in his dreams by the peculiar sidelong
shift. There’s the bicycle face and the tennis elbow ;
why not the chess.v brain ? j
« * * *
A handsome booklet is at all times acceptable,
but that issued by the Dunlop Tyre Co. is exceptionally
fine. All C3’dists should at once apply for a copy of this
beautifully illustrated brochure, which is posted gratis
by the Dunlop Co.* i
The champion cool hand has been dis- '
covered at Willesden Green, London. A husband
suing for divorce from his wife put in the follow-
ing letter as evidence:
Dearest Arthur. —I have gone away with Gray. Forgive
me, and always think of your loving wife. Rose.
“Dearest Arthur” was “always to think” of his
“loving wife, Rose” —and Rose was then away
with the other man !
The Sydney reformed Council’s garbage-
destructor will have two useful adjuncts. The
first is the lethal chamber for diseased and useless
dogs, which are now either knocked on the head
by the police-barracks butcher, or “scragged ” at
the back of the Town Hall by the municipal dog-
Ketch. The dogs will in the future have eutha-
nasia, by chloroform spray and then carbonio
acid gas. The second adjunct of the garbage-
destructor is a disinfecting chamber for garments,
bedding, &c., in cases of contagious disease. The
stuff will be put through the superheated steam
process, emerging clean and fit for use again.
“APENTA”
Natural Aperient Water is the Best Eliminant.
“An ideal purgative ’’—The Practitioner.
THE SAFEST AND MOST RELIABLE
HOUSEHOLD APERIENT.
GIVES IMMEDIATE RELIEF.
“L.C.”: In Brisbane, some years ago,
there was a great scandal about the alleged pre-
ference shown by a Judge towards his son, who
practised before him as a barrister. Referring to
the matter, I heard, at a dinner party, an old
lawyer relate the following concerning a similar
favoritism exhibited by Baron Maguire, once of
the Irish Bench, for his son. An application was
made for a new trial and refused, whereupon the
barrister who failed to obtain it returned the brief
with the recommendation that Mr. Maguire be
I retained. This was done, and on his making an
application a new trial was promptly granted.
The first barrister then pointed out in court that
a similar application by himself had been refused.
“Oh,” said the Baron, “Mr. Maguire has put
the matter in quite a different light.” “ Yes,”
was the scathing retort —“in the light of the
son ! ”


IN THE PRESS
IMPORTANT NOTICE
TO BE PUBLISHED IN TEN DAYS. .
One of the most important and historic works ever placed before the Australian public.
THE CITY OP SYDNEY.
The Story of its Growth—From its Foundation to the Present
- Written by JOHN ARTHUR BARRY, author of “Steeve Brown’s Bunyip,” etc., etc.
One. of our most brilliant Authors .
The whole work edited by the editor of the Town and Country Journal, the leading authority on early Sydney.
80 paces enclosed in a handsomely designed cover, printed on perfection paper, and illustrated with 5000 'square
inches of lovely half-tone process blocks. A great demand is sure to result.
The Largest Book and Most Valuable ever placed before the public for Is.—Post Free, 4d. extra.
. . . MARVELLOUS VALUE . . .
in order to prevent disappointment, hook your orders early. Cannot be produced again at the same price.
Every family should possess one of these historical books. Research has been made through thousands of historical
documents and pictures, in order to make the publication as perfect as possible.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., 861 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And all Branches and Booksellers.
CATARRH DESTROYS THE SENSES OF SIGHT,
SMELL, HEARING, TASTE, AND TOUGH.
RAFFAN’S CATARRH REMEDY
RWffllES THE BLIGHTED SENSES, ANIMATES
THE NERVE CENTRES, CURES THE DISEASE.
Is., 2s. 6d., ss. At Most Chemists.
SPECIALITY PRODUCTS.
/CATARRH consists of Acute Inflammation. of the
yj Mucous Membranes of the Air Passages, arising 1 from
too sudden a change of temperature when the strength is
exhausted, and may consist of Lango*, Pains in . the
Limbs, Aching of the Back, Headache, Discharge from
the Nostrils, Ophthalmia, Hoarseness, Sore Throat,
Feverishness, Tonsilitis, Bronchitis. In chronic cases the
mucous membranes thicken, causing stuffiness of the
nose. Polypus is hardened mucous. The CATARRH
REMEDY” is a most effectual medicine, nourishing and
attending to the constitution, especially in CARARRH
of the STOMACH,” which is usually spoken of as a
“ bilious attack.” It co-exists in bronchitis, coughs, and
lung affections. There is a feeling of faintness and pain
when stomach is empty, and occasional vomiting of glairy
fluid in the morning. Its severe forms are inflammatory
gastric fevers. A constitution exhausted and devitalised,
whether from acute disease or slow wasting
always derives great benefit from the Remedy, and a
permanent cure is always effected. For weak pulse,
irregular action of the heart, palpitation, and all nervous
disturbances, the “ Remedy ” is a reliable medicine.
CATARRH LOTION, an effectual lotion powder, is
supplied in a graduated glass measure (Is. each), when
used as directed with the special Rubber Syringe
Ha 6d.) entirely removes the unpleasantness of
“ running” and “ stuffiness” of the nostrils. The most
speedy cures and best results are to he seen in those
patients who adopt the complete remedy—the medicine,
lotion and correct type of “rubber syiinge.
I had an attack of Low Fever for 10 weeks. Since
recovery I have suffered from Catarrh and suffered un-
speakable inconvenience Your Remedy has completely
cured me, and I have not had a symptom of the trouble
Sll “l’have suffered from Catarrh for 15 years. I have
been uuder MEDICAL TREATMENT and tried every
known cure, without satisfactory relief I have been
using your Remedy, and I can truthfully say I am
thoroughly cured. It readily relieves Catarrh.
For Sale by most Chemists, or RAFFAN, Pharmacist,
Melbourne. ___
Publications.
NEW SONGS THAT WILL LIVE.
“SAY THAT YOUR HEART IS MINE.”
By WiljL Vernie. Sung at the Municipal London
Concert Halls.
“SHEPHERD DIVINE.”
Words by Aldington Villaz. Music by T. R. Olleren-
shaw. Will be welcomed in all homes where good
sacred songs are appreciated.
W. PAXTON & CO., London & Melbonrne.
Catalogues Free.
XadiesZ^
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
Bulletin Booklets, Zo. IV.
DREfIIUS 111 FLOWER
By LOUISE MACK.
• • •
*** This, the first published collection of
verses by Louise Mack, is handsomely
printed in the style of previous Booklets,,
but in an enlarged size. It contains all
the best of the author’s work in verse during
the last ten years.
Price Half-a-Crown ; forwarded post-
free from The Bulletin office on receipt of
postal note or stamps (of any Australasian
State or province).
ROBERTS’ HOTEL, you enjoy your lunch
George and Market Sts.,
SYDNEY.
APARTMENTS:
BEDROOM (single), 3s. per DAY.
BEDROOM (double), 6s. per DAY.
Single Room, with Full Board, 8s per
day, or £2 2s. per week.
TERMS. The convenient
system of paying for the
room on arrival and
meals as they are had.
When you come to Roberts’ Hotel
Dining Rooms ; and you not only
enjoy it, but it does you good as
well. There is always a large and
tempting variety of excellent food on
our menu, and on Fridays there is a
special fish luncheon for those who
want it in addition to the ordinary.
The luncheon is ready at twelve
o’clock sharp —from Is. —and there
is first-class attendance. Dinner and
tea from 5.30 to 7-30 —from Is.
upwards. Silver grill at work.
STRENGTH for the WEAK
and NERVOUS.
“THE MEDICAL MONTHLY,” August, 1893, says : “The firm of Arthur Hale
and Son of 105 Regent Street, London, W., has distinguished itself in the develop-
ment of electrical science as a medical agent. By an entirely new method of applica-
tion they have succeeded in producing an Electric Body Beit, which for comfort,
efficacy/and genuineness, is unquestionably far superior to any previous invention.
WE INVITE ALL intending purchasers of our IMPROVED and
PATENTED ELECTRO-GALVANIC BELTS and APPLIANCES
to a FAIR TRIAL and TEST before payment. Call upon us if possible.
If it is not convenient for you to call at our offices, request a friend or an
acquaintance in tl.is city, or one coming from .your own town to do so for
you We will first show you that our IMPROVED and PAIENIED
ELECTRO-GALVANIC BELTS and APPLIANCES are genuine pro-
ducers of a continuous GALVANIC CURRENT by a MOST CRITICAL
TEST with the GALVANOMETER. And if you or your representative
cannot feel the ELECTRIC CURRENT from the GALVANIC
CHAINS in our ELECTRIC BELTS and APPLIANCES, we are will-
ing to place £lO 10s. to the credit of each of any two Chanties you may
mention, either in this city or your own town or city.
We most cordially and respectfully invite any PHYSICIAN or
ELECTRICIAN to inspect our IMPROVED and PA lENI ED
ELECTRO-GALVANIC BELTS and APPLIANCES, which we are
now offering for sale to the AUSIRALIAN PUBLIC.
7
Hale & Son’s Improved and Patented Electro-Galvanic Belts and Appliances are
Nature’s Chief Restorers. Our Plain Belt, our Special Belt and Suspensor for Gentlemen,
Uid our Abdominal Belt for ladies are guaranteed to he the most Scientific and
Electric Appliances vet produced. They will speedily relieve and Cure Nervous Exhaus-
tion, Rheumatism, Pain and Weakness in the Back, impart tone and vig-or to the whole nervous
svstem and make life a. pleasure. We invite all sufferers, no matter what the disease or ailment may be,
to 'o r sen dforo u r Free Book, entitled, “Modern Treatment of Disease by Electricity.”
Consultation Free.
HALE & SON, Medical Galvanists,
105 Regent St., London, W., and 44 OASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
Please mention this paper.
A CERTAIN CURE
fi
s'
■ Ss /
S’ '
v\ o. v.
' \V V N
4;
NATURE’S TONIC.
FOB MEN and WOMEN.
THERE is one certain way to cure weakness —that is to restore
life ; one certain way to cure pain—that is to remove its cause.
How far drugs come from this, and how directly the Dr.
Mcliaughlin Electric Belt strikesthe mark, isshownby the
thousands of cures performed in almost hopeless cases by our wonder-
working electric method after the failure of all kinds of drug medica-
tion. The reason is that all pain and weakness result from a loss of
organic and nerve vitality. That must be restored. Drugs cannot
restore it. Electricity can and does when it is applied right. Our
method is right.
The greatest men in the world of medicine and science say
“ ELECTRICITY IS LIFE.” It is the strength, the vigor, and,
in fact, the very life in the body, and Dr. McLaughlin's success in
making use of its life-giving power proves its merit. With his
Electric Belt he has cured 10,000 weak men during the last five years
—men who have been troubled with general debility, wasting weak-
ness-men who had been able to get no benefit from drugs. Many of
these cases were pronounced incurable by doctors who had failed to
cure them. But they have been cured, and they stand ready to
testify to it.
Read what the People say op
DR.
A BAD CASE OF DEBILITY.
JOHN KING, Marine Department, Brisbane, writes: “Since I have been
wearing your Belt, I sleep better at night, get up in the morning full of energy
and refreshed from my sleep. My back does not ache any more, and I am
better in every way. My friends all ask me what caused the change, and I tell
them ‘ The Belt.’ I would not part with it for £5O if I could not get another.”
A VERY LAME BACK!
Mr. G. DAWSON, Tcetane, writes us : “ Before I got your Belt I had
to walk witn a stick, and have two or three rests going in a tunnel three-
quarters of a mile long. Now I can do the whole distance without stick
or rest, for which lam very thankful. I have had the Belt only a few weeks.”
INDIGESTION AND DYSPEPSIA.
“ Kelso,” Calvert-street, Marrickville, N.S.W.
Dr. McLaughlin Co., Sydney.
Dear Sirs,—l have been using one of your high-grade belts now for about
six weeks. My principal trouble was CHRONIC DYSPEPSIA, and a general
run-down condition. I can truthfully say that my food digests a great deal
easier, and I sleep better since using it, and I hope to be entirely well in three
months’ time. Of course, a man 67 years of age, as I am, cannot expect to
be cured in a day. lam telling my friends of the benefits lam receiving from
the Belt, and am glad to testify to ‘its merits.
Yours very respectfully,
HUGH JONES.
Because you are too far away to call is no reason why you should not avail yourself of this grand remedy. We hardly need to tell you that
we have the largest correspondence business of its kind in the world. Wei have sixteen offices, all built from one small start: because our goods are
genuine and all we claim them to be. We will tell you honestly if we cannot cure you ;if we can, we want you to have our grand remedy. We can
treat you successfully if you are at the other end of the earth so long as there are facilities for communication. Write for our book, What Men
Like to Read ” : vve will send our statement blank for you to fill out. FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
Remember, there is only ONE ELECTRIC BELT in Australasia. You can call between 9 a.m. and 9 p.m. if you are close enough.
dr. McLaughlin electric belt go., 85 king st., Sydney.
CAPILLA
HAIR
TONIC
The Hair Restorer of the Century.
All Chemists and Storekeepers, 2/6 per bottle, or by post
from W. RICHARDS, Proprietor, 168 Pitt-st., Sydney,
N.S.W., 3/2. Obtainable in Melbourne at G. Swift’s,
Chemist, Collins-st. ; Victorian price, 3/-. Full Course
17/2 ; Inter-State, 19/2.
A woman’s view :
Why does the female perjurer go scatheless ? Not be-
cause her sex sympathises with the woman whose indecent
accusations may descend like a cloud upon husband,
father, or lover ; nor because the much-vaunted chivalry
of man or privilege of woman intervenes. These abstrac-
tions avail not the female who feels suddenly shabby, and
removes the 2s. lid. blouse from the draper’s shop-front,
or the woman who abducts a leg of mutton because the
children have nothing for their Sunday dinner. These
erring ones get two months, or thereabouts ; whilst Sap-
phira, of the loathly imagination, sails out of court scath-
less, sniffing up the savour of the desired odour of noto-
riety. If (though no other woman will countenance the
“ if ”) she is a victim to hysteria, why is she not detained
for medical treatment —good, strong, forcible, uncompro-
mising medical treatment ?
A noble story was related by a Sydney
domestic servant the other day. She was sitting
in her master’s house, all alone, at night, when it
was furiously attacked by a gang of burglars.
She didn’t say whether they had artillery, but a
terrible struggle followed, out of which the young
female person, who had defended herself despe-
rately at the point of the frying-pan or something,
emerged triumphant. The daily papers published
the narrative, and “the housemaid hero ” was a
passing sensation. None of these papers has
since even whispered the fact that inquiry proved
there were no burglars, no awful struggle, no
heroic defence. It was a case of imaginative
hysteria evolved while sitting by the fireplace.
Too wide publicity cannot be given to these
hysteria incidents until it is set down as an
absolute principle of jurisprudence that a woman’s
evidence on any exciting subject is to betaken
with extreme caution, if it is taken at all.
Martin’s Apiol and Steel Pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia, price As. fid.
Agents: Sayers, Allport, and Potter, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor, W. Martin, Pharmaceutical
Chemist, Southampton, England.*
A romance of the racecourse. A whim-
sical individual, who struck a big div. at a M.L.
meet, heard a voice at his elbow as he was stow-
ing away his notes. Turning, he faced—his
divorced wife. Eyeing her for a minute, he said,
“ Well, you can share it, old girl.” And she did.
They have since re-married. ’Tis gold, after all,
that makes the world go round.
An aged wayback, to whom modern city
arrangements were a mystery, recently had an
awful experience in a Sydney hotel. When he
saw the string hanging down in the bathroom,
he recklessly pulled it with insufficient con-
sideration of the consequences. Instantly
there was a long, wailing splutter, and then a
violent howl like an escaping cataract, and a
torrent of water. Two housemaids saw a scared
and insufficiently-attired bush-gentleman rush-
ing towards them yelling “fire” and “mur-
der.” After making some incoherent remarks
about taking to the boats, he swooned. In
another Sydney hotel a country friend once
“pulled the string,” and was so certain that he
had wrecked the water-supply that he packed up
his bag and ran for his life lest he should be
ruined by the bill for damages. The shower-
bath should be furnished with a legend : “ Please
pull the string, and don’t be alarmed.” These
few simple words would save many a country
visitor an anxious time.
The boss Benevolent Society of an Aus-
tralian city is wrestling with a problem. On its
books were two families—one a widow with four
children, and the other a deserted wife with five.
Recently, the deserted wife reported that her hus-
band had returned. Investigation proved that he
had not only returned, but also that he was living
with the widow and four children. The society
promptly stopped further assistance to the latter.
The old man was so shocked at his wife for inform-
ing on him that he went to the old home, collected
his own five children, and took them also to live
with him and the widow. This relieved the
society of ten pensioners, and the society is
pleased on the whole. But the deserted wife is
clamoring at its door, demanding assistance to
prosecute her husband for desertion and to recover
her children ; and the society feels that it should
move in the matter on high moral grounds, yet, if
it does move, the man will probably be sent to
gaol, and it will have the widow and the nine
children on its hands again. So the institution
almost wishes it wasn’t so moral and could let the
thing slide.


Patents for Inventions. —Arthur Griffith
and Allen, International Patent Agents and Con-
sulting Engineers, University Chambers, Phillip-
street, Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyrights
throughout the world.*
Do you want the sweetest smoke in the
world ? Do you want to give some man friend
the present that will please him best? >“'en
turn to Mick Simmon’s advt. on page 1 of this
paper, select your choice, and send for it by
next post.*
To Let—lmmediate Possession.
Tbe GRAND HOTEL,
ZEEHAN, TASMANIA.
The Leading Hotel of the West Coast.
THIS Splendid Hotel is situated in the centre of
the business part of ZEEHAN and is con-
tiguous to the Gaiety Theatre, with sole rights to
bars, &c., electric light, two large sample rooms,
large billiard room, hot baths, and all modern
conveniences. The business is good and rent
moderate. Furniture and stock may be taken at
valuation, but this is optional to incoming tenant.
Apply to- j. MULCAHY, Hobart.
THE UNION BANK OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
4.
BALANCE-SHEET, 31st AUGUST, 1901.
LIABILITIES.
Capital £4,500,000
Less : Reserve Liability .. 3,000,000
Paid up £1,500,000 0 0
Reserve fund (invested as per contra .. 850,000 0 0
Contingent account 150,000 0 0
Circulation 466,254 0 0
Deposits (including inscribed stock
deposits) 14,678,803 8 7
Bills payable and other liabilities (includ-
ing reserves held against doubtful
debts 2,222,659 14 8
Balance of undivided profits M ... 109,499 511
£19,977,216 4 2
ASSETS.
Specie on hand and cash balances ..£3,166,358 0 8
Bullion on hand and in transitu .. .. 117,354 14 8
Money at call and short notice in London 830,000 0 0
Investments—
Consols, and other stocks
of, or guaranteed by, the
Imperial Government ..£122,416 19 9
India Government sterling
stocks and Indian Rail-
way guaranteed stocks . 314,458 19 0
British Municipal and
Colonial and Foreign
Government stocks and
debentures ~ .. 231,852 1 9
£668,728 0 6
Reserve Fund—
Consols, £500,000 ; local
loans (Imperial Govern-
ment stock), £200,000 ;
national war loan,
£150,000 850,000 0 0
1,518,728 0 6
Bills receivable, loans and other securities
at London office 1,838,458 2 8
Bills discounted, bills receivable, loans
and other securities at the branches .. 12,284,116 16 4
Bank premises and pro-
perty in the colonies ..£603,769 2 7
Less—
Amount transferred from
this half-year’s profits .. 10,000 0 0
593,769 2 7
London leasehold premises £142,304 19 4
Reserve against same,
£13,635 os. 4d. ; six
months’ interest there-
on at 3£ per cent.,
£238 12s. 3d 13,873 12 7
128,431 6 9
£19,977,216 4 2
STATEMENT OF PROFITS, 31st AUGUST, 1901.
Balance of undivided profits at 23th February, 1901
Less : —Amount applied in reduction of contingent account in terms of last report ..
Out of which a dividend was declared of
Leaving a balance of
Profits pf the past half-year, after making provision in respect of bad and doubtful
debts £217,619 13 2
Less :
Remuneration to the local directors, and salaries and allowances to
the colonial staff £73,184 4 10
General expenses in the colonies, including rent, taxes, stationery, etc. 29,339 6 0
Remuneration to the board of directors, and auditors, salaries of
London office staff, rent, taxes, stationery, and general expenses.. 15,684 12 0
Income tax 3,730 11 0
Deduct—
Amount transferred to bank premises and property in the colonies
Balance of undivided profit at this date
£lOB,BlB 6 7
25,000 0 0
£83,818 6 7
60,000 0 0
£23,818 6 7
121,938 13 10
95,680 19 4
£119,499 5 11
10,000 0 0
£109,499 5 11
London, 16th January, 1902.
ARTHUR FLOWER
W. O. GILCHRIST
C. PARBURY
Directors.
W. E. CARBERY, Manager.
T. 0. 0. SAUNDERS, Accountant.
AUDITORS’ CERTIFICATE AND REPORT.
In accordance with the provisions of “ The Companies Act 1900,” we certify that all our requirements as auditors
have been complied with.
We report that we have verified the cash, investments, bills of exchange, and other assets in London, and have
had access to the accounts sent to London from the various branches in the colonies, and having examined the same,
and the books and accounts of the London office, we are of opinion that the above balance-sheet is a full and fair
balance-sheet, properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the company’s affairs as
shown by the books of the company.
WHINNEY, SMITH, and WHINNEY,
Chartered Accountants,
Auditors.
Missing Friends.
TROUGH. —The following sons of the late
THOMAS CROUGH and BRIDGET
CROUGH, of Kilmore, Victoria, or if they or
any of them are dead, their legal representatives,
will hear of something to their advantage by
applying to the undersigned, and any person giv-
ing information of their whereabouts will be
rewarded.
DANIEL CROUGH, left Kilmore more than
35 years ago, afterwards heard of in Horsham
(Vic.) district.
PATRICK CROUGH left Kilmore about 1873
JOHN CROUGH left Kilmore more than 30
years ago, and was at Momba Station, Paroo
River, N.S.W., about 10 years ago.
MICHAEL CROUGH left Kilmore more than
30 years ago; last heard of at Mooroopna, more
than 20 years ago.
JAMES CROUGH left Kilmore six years ago ;
was at Hermitage, Pittsworth, via Toowoomba,
Queensland, in December, 1897.
Dated this 6th day of March, 1902. JAMES
FYNN, Solicitor, High-st., Yea, Victoria.
RUPTURE «
without
operation or pain,
Throw away
your Truas.
no detention from work, or depend-
ence upon Trusses. The only
humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
Treatise No. io. Address:
1 SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C.8., ENG.,
Con Russell & Collins Sts.,
r MELBOURNE.
amusements.
-f-HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
• Lessee Mr. Bland Holt.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. William Anderson.
FRIDAY, MARCH 14, LAST NIGHT of JOHN F.
SHERIDAN and THE WIDOW O’BRIEN,
SAT., MARCH 15, Return of William Anderson’s
Famous Dramatic Organisation in THE NIGHT
BIRDS OF LONDON.
Prices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Representative, MICHAEL JOSEPH.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager : Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, George Tallis. Treas., E. J. Tait.
EVERY EVENING,
THE RUNAWAY <SIRL,
The Jolliest Musical Play Ever Written.
Interpreted by full strength of the
ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
Prices as Usual. ISJi Box Plan at Allan’s.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessees & Managers, J. C. Williamson, Lee & Rial
Every Evening, at 8. Matinees, Wednesdays & Saturdays.
MAGNIFICENT AND COMPLETE SUCCESS
of the
NEW COMPANY of
THE WORLD’S ENTERTAINERS
(POLITE VAUDEVILLE).
PRICES—3s., 25., and Is. Box Plan at Allan & Co.’s,
Menzies’ Hotel, The Grand Hotel, and at the theatre
phone, 1359. JOE RROWN, Business Manager.
Amusements.
f-HEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIA’S UNIQUE ATTRACTION.
EVERY EVENING at 7.55,
George Musgrove’s Greatest of all his Great Productions
ALADDIN. ALADDIN.
The Most Unique Chinese-Japanese Entertainment io
Existence.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Matinees Wed. and Sat
2 P- m - THOS. P. HUDSON.''
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ ■ Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING at 7.45.
MATINEES EVERY WED. and SAT. at 2.
THE GREATEST SPECTACLE OF MODERN DAYS
Messrs. KLAW and ERLANGER’S Stupendous Pro-
duction of General Lew Wallace’s
BEN HUR.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
1 YCEUM
" Lessee
THEATRE, SYDNEY.
„ , --- Mr. Wm. Anderson.
Suh Lessee .. .. Bland Holt.
EMPHATIC SUCCESS. EMPHATIC SUCCESS.
BLAND HOLT’S
POPULAR PREMIER DRAMATIC COMBINATION
of the Truly Great Melodrama,
HEARTS ARE TRUMPS.
POPULAR PRICES—3s„ 25., Is. Box Plan at Elvv’s
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.’
DALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
• Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. J. C. WILLIAMSON, LEE, and RIAL.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY) and for 4 NIGHTS ONLY
FAREWELL TO SYDNEY of
THE WORLD’S ENTERTAINERS
(POLITE VAUDEVILLIANS)
Prices—Bs., 2s. & Is. Early Doors until 7.31, 6d. extra
IV O L
THEATRE,
SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor and Manager —Mr. Harry Rickard!
GREAT SUCCESS of the PEERLESS PEGGY PRYDE
MDLLE. LOTTY.
WESTON & YOST.
LUNDGREENS.
OASSELLI SISTERS.
JAMES OPIE.
Prices—2/6, 2/-, 1/6, 1/-,
GALLANDO! ■■
COLBY & WAY.
PASTOR & RANDALL.
NET BALL PLAYERS.
C. N. BROWN-PARKER.
6d. Pox Plan at Paling’s
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
RICKARDS’ NEW OPERA HOUSE
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mr. HARRY RICKARDS
EVERY EVENING, at 8 p.m.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS at 2.30p.m
DERENDA & BREEN,
The Greatest Comic Jugglers in the World.
CALLAHAN & MACK, WINTCN & M’GINTY,
Complete and Enthusiastic Success of the Great
American Novelty,
NET B A I. E.
Prices—2s. 6d., 25., Is., and 6d. Plan at Allan’s.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Mr. George Musgrove.
Thos. P. Hudson.
Sole Lessee
Acting-Man ager
Continued and Unabated Success of the Great Melbourne
Attraction,
SWEET NELL OF OLD DRURY.
NELL GWYNNE .. .. MISS NELLIE STEWART,
Supported by Mr. George Musgrove’s NEW
ENGLISH DRAMATIC CO.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allan’s.
t
@8
iu
iiii
mil
>:n:i
•Iiii
!
IIUI
ill
II
ilxi
r:rri!S
iiiiiii
iiiiisj.
m
tit;
ii:;;;;:
s
mi
;•:! *
M
UiJ
risJJi;
raff.
,
ssslEs iSsSisSii UVU;:.
::)!! Dili llilli I! hili
ill liiiiiilili
::
mmm
•:s:t
;;;; !.:«
ftWMgiiiggS {»;::»:!
i::is:::5??:«51i:l:::ssss!ss:s:::
<K fi Afy>
uw
U\>Ll 0000
0000000
A
a <4
✓v U v
We wish to draw special attention to our
Gents’ Sac Suits
Fashionable Sac Suits of Dark Blue
Serge, or the popular Worsted Stripes,
elegantly made and finished.
Perfect in fit, and fully guaranteed.
Every suit made by the London Tailor-
ing Depot is guaranteed to fit to a
nicety, and keep its shape.
Worn by well dressed business and pro-
fessional men throughout the States.
Thousands of patterns to choose from.
j— 'L ♦>♦<♦
Call or write to the
London Tailoring
—Depot—
Bourke St., Melb.
P» S. MEYERS , Manager
(Opp.
a.p.0.)
That rash young man, Kirton, M.L. A. for Bal'
larat (Vic.), got up the other day at the Methodist
Conference and recklessly struck its principal
religious stock-in-trade in the eye. The Confer-
ence had just been of opinion that the non-success
of the movement for restoring sectarian education
was greatly owing to the machinations of the
R.C.’s, and to the R.C. block vote. Kirton
thereupon remarked in a dhsual way that as the
Catholics numbered less than a quarter of the
Victorian population, it was absurd to talk as if
they ran the whole show ; that there was no R.C.
block vote except on rare occasions, the Holy
Romans being just as little unanimous in their
politics as other sects ; and that the habit among
incompetent Protestant parsons of deciding that all
their failures were due, in some hazy fashion, to
the R.C. Church made any sensible man
tired. Then Kirton made some disparaging
remarks about Orange societies, but the roar of
parsonical disapproval drowned his voice just
then, and the Methodist Conference raged like a
troubled sea, and cast up many dismasted
adjectives ..upon the shore. That Kirton spoke
the simple-truth is beyond all question. The
State where the largest proportion of the popula-
tion is of the R.C. persuasion is New South
Wales, and the R,C. vote in N.S.W. wasn’t
strong enough to get its Cardinal even tenth place
at the Federal Convention election. The Protes-
tant churches make very little progress with their
Bible-in-schools propaganda, but they would
probably make no more progress if there wasn’t a
single R.C. in Australia. The trouble is that they
are calling in“o the deaf ear of a flock which
doesn’t take its own church seriously and
which is rush in 'to back a horse. And the R.C.
church is bawling in the same deaf ear. The myth
of the Protestant parsons that they are a great
power which would prevail, but for the mighty
opposition of the shaven and celibate priesthood
of Rome, is comforting but thin. Both parties
are opposing one another certainly, and shoving
all they know, but it is very like a case of two
grasshoppers shoving against each other in a dark
corner while the bulk of the community doesn’t
know that they are there.
—♦
On Friday afternoon last Mr. Edmund
Resch, Consul for the Netherlands, held a recep-
tion at the Hotel Australia, and the following
gentlemen returned the official call made by
Mr. Resch some time previously— viz., Acting
Lieutenant-Governor, the State Premier (Mr.
See), the Mayor, Town Clerk, and the undermen-
tioned consular representatives : —M. Georges
Biard d’Aunet, Consul-General for France ; Herr
Paul von Bnri, Imperial German Consul-General;
Mr. Hisakichi Eitaki, acting Consul-General for
Japan ; Esper Nassour Bey, Consul for Turkey ;
Mr. Theodor A. Boesen, K.D., Consul-General for
Denmark ; M. Rene Vos, Vice-Consul for Bel-
gium ; Mr. E. M. Paul, Consul for Russia ; Mr.
Marc Rutty, Consul for Switzerland ; Mr. J.
Brown, Consul for Chili ; and Mr. Jas. T. Tillock,
Consul for Argentine Republic.
A SCIENTIFIC PICK-ME-UP.-No better
tonic and restorative for the victims of social fes-
tivities exists than a morning draught of Hunyadi
Janos. Sure, swift, searching, yet safe, and in
every respect salutary. The best and safest
natural aperient. *
Daring the recent Queensland electoral
campaign, a candidate stated that he was not
averse to companies building private railways,
but what he did not want was to have syndicates
building them. He probably thought the syndi-
cate was a kind of kangaroo.
Miner “Jack” Goggin, the well-known
Wyalong athlete, writes stating that the local
resolution condemning Holman, M.L. A., for
his attitude on the Boer war was rushed
through by the chairman, Mayor Neeld, who
prevented any discussion on the motion con-
demning Mr. Holman, after inviting discussion
on the previous patriotic motions, about which
all were agreed :
The motion was put while the audience was standing
up or rushing to the platform and demanding that a
division be taken, and if the motion had been put so that
it could be voted on by all who wanted to vote on it, or
if the division had been taken, it was evident to every-
body (including the chairman) that the motion would
have been badly beaten. The reports in the Sydney
papers have misrepresented the public of Wyalong
throughout Australia ; they have injured Mr. Holman by
holding him up to be a man condemned by his con-
stituents, when he is not so condemned. Any excuse is
good enough for attacking a Labor member, and every-
body knows that the so-called patriotic meeting was
arranged by the men who led the opposition to Mr.
Holman at the last general election, but this was not
published in the Sydney press, although it was called
attention to often enough at the meeting.


HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies alt
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILD. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Sendatonce for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&e. Price, in Great Britain, l/ljd. per box. Prehared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents •• ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
niTrylt:
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 108. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
<9
I§l,\ m
The Result.
CRAIG & AITKEN, N.S.W. Barber’s Supply
House. 680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPOONER’S
M
m
k
SPOONER S
V
*
IWTtHT LEATHER BOOTS
GLAZED RIOS M
**<# f*» •**
tvi t**t »•**■***••'»
1
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning' and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
fd
PLAIN HON|€ TALK.
XMBRACnra
MEDICAL, COMMON SENSE.
Bt Da. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 86 Ohromos. 200 Illustrations. 1200 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1901 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted to any address for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr* Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is,; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Be airy’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
The Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic, Is 6d, post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
How to Bead Heads (Jas. Ooates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
Balzac’s Droll Stories, Is 3d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is 3d.
Pa, Ma and Baby, by Gustdve Droz, posted 2s.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music complete), Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Metal Working, Brazing, etc., Is 3d.
Send for my Illustrated Big: Book
atalogue—post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
mm
mm.
ARE YOU WEAK?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regain Health?
The Langston Regenerator
Its effects are almost instantaneous and the good results go
on increasing from day to day.
Health, Vigor. Strength ££
OLD SURGEON LANGSTON,
Member Royal College of Surgeons, England, permanently located in
Melbourne since 1886, originator of the Regenerator treatment, has so
perfected his method that it has revolutionised the art of Healing,
and it can almost be said there are no hopeless or incurable
cases.
Are You a Sufferer
from bad health in
any of its many forms?
Do you feel nervous, fretful, timid and lack the power of will and
action ? Are you subject to memory, broken sleep, feel listless
moping, and subject to fits of melancholy ? Are your kidneys, stomach, urinary organs, liver or blood in a
disordered condition ? Do you feel generally debilitated? Do you suffer from Rheumatism, Neuralgia or other
aches or pains?
Do not fail to have the Doctor diagnose your case. If you are unfamiliar with the Regenerator treatment
prepared in his own laboratory, which is annually curing: thousands, send at ohce for full information •
it is absolutely free.
Seels. th.e Trutb., l"t costa Wothing!
No matter what you are suffering from, the Regenerator restores the shattered constitution
like magic.
All communications are considered sacredly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng., co;-. Russell & Collins Sts,, Melbourne
Dr. Clarkson’s Electric Belt
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Dr. Clarkson’s Re-Invigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
vigour.
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys.
peptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
parts, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-INVIGORATOR
V
will bring happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and .1
THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC. organs is truly wonderful.
Price—ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
qall OR write- o-\7\7"Xj r c a u t t e DRUG STOTITP
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY/'"**
a t :
■■
r.
a
mb
HERR RASSMUSSEN (HANS PETER RASMUSSEN),
The Celebrated Danish Botanist,
Proprietor and Discoverer of the World-Famed Alfaline Herbal Remedies,
which have been the means of effecting the most marvellous Cures for Blood,
Skin and Nervous Diseases ever heard of in Australia.
Herr Rassmussen’s Australian Career:
It is about Twenty Years since Herr
Rassmussen introduced his Herbal Remedies
to the Australian Public. At that time
he was only known to the public as a Botanist
pure and simple, having devoted almost his
whole life to the study of that most useful
and interesting braneh of science. It how-
ever, soon dawned on Herr Rassmussen that
immense virtues existed in many plants which
were entirely unknown to medical men, and
that it was his duty towards his fellow man
to bring these new discovered Herbal Remedies
within the means of suffering humanity.
Herr Rassmussen at once set to work,
and his entire energy was directed towards
extracting the medical properties from all
kinds of plants, and putting them up in the
most suitable and practical form, according
to the nature of the complaints which they
had been found a cure for.
Pills and Powders were found to be the
most practical form to administer these new
Herbal Remedies.
It is unnecessary to particularise here the
immense success Herb Rassmussen met with
in his venture twenty years ago ; suffice it to
say that in less than twelve months the
great and wonderful cures brought about by
his Alfaline Herbal Remedies were known
throughout Australia, New Zealand, and many
other parts of the world. Testimonials and
Honors arrived from all parts. Gold Medals
from Paris and other places were awarded, and
Herr Rassmussen’s name has been a house-
hold word ever since.— (Sydney Press.)
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Herbal Remedies!
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
are a guaranteed cure for all Nervous Diseases’
Weak Spine, Brain and Nerves, Poor Memory
Tired Feeling, Melancholia, Spots before the
Eyes, etc. Boxes, 6/- and 12/-; courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS
are a permanent cure for Wasting Diseases in
Women, Anaemia, and a perfect Blood and
Nerve Tonic, Boxes, 6/- & 12/-; courses, 23/6,
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS
are a permanent cure for all Chronic Blood
and Skin Diseases, Blotches, Blood Disorders,
Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, &c.
Boxes, 6/- and 12/-; courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE LIVER & KIDNEY PILLS
cure Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulence,
Heartburn, Wind, Biliousness and Headache.
Boxes, One Shilling.
ALFALINE RHEUMATIC PILLS.
Guaranteed to cure Rheumatism, Gout,
Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted 3/-,
6/-, 12/- & 23/6. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
ALFALINE ASTHMA & COUGH PILLS.
A wonderful remedy for Coughs, Colds, Con-
sumption, Bronchitis, Influenza and Asthma.
Boxes, posted, 3/-, 6/-, 12/- & 23/6.
GENERAL REMEDIES.
Alfaline Pile Powders, cure internal and
external Piles, boxes 3/- and 6/- ; Varicocele
Powders, boxes 6/-; Blood Capsules or
Globulus, 6/-; Fat-Reducing Powders, which
removes corpulency, 6/-; Hair Restorer, 6/-;
Corn Cure, 1/-; Ointment, 1/-; Eucalyptus
Oil and Jujubes, boxes 1/-; Flesh-Producing
Powders, 6/-; Worm Tablets, 1/-; Headache
Tablets, 1/-; Electric Belts, Suspenders,
Bandages, etc. Circulars with all particulars
sent Free.
REMEDIES BY POST A SPECIALTY.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has made special arrangements for attending
personally to his Clients living in the Country, and Letters will receive
most careful attention. , , . . .
His Remedies will be forwarded to sufferers, packed in co y? r an^
unobserved, together with Advice and Directions. Letters s!hould be addressed
to Herr Rassmussen’s full name—HANS PETER RASMUSSEN and
Registered if containing Money.
Herr Rassmussen’s Addresses:
Head Office: 547 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY,
ALSO AT
MELBOURNE—ISO Bourke Street
BRISBANE—3O9 Queen Street
ADELAIDE—IS Pulteney Street
N.Z.—Bl Lambton Quay, Wellington
W.A.—PERTH—IBI Hay Street
EALGOORLIE—Hannan Street
BOULDER ClTY—Piesse Street
EREMANTLE—II7 High Street
A FREE BOOK SENT ON APPLICATION,
with Advice, Testimonials, and List of Alfaline Remedies.
“ J.P.” : I recently wrote to the
of Reviews office requesting that a. copy of that
publication should be sent to a friend of min ,
now located in Corea in connection with mining
concessions. Received a reply asking, Where
is Corea ? We cannot find any mention of it in
any Australian ‘ Postal Guide.’ ”
He was sick of life (in other words he was
very drunk) so he laid his head on the tram-rail
and waited for the vehicle to end his woes. Ry-
and-bye he got tired of lying there, and found the
tram-rail very cold on his ear; besides he had
become a little more sober. So he sat up and
looked at his watch. It was 2 a.m. and the next
tram wasn’t due for four hours.


TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
Discoveries by Christopher Mudd, F.L.S., F.R.G.S., M.B.Ph.S., Botanist to the King of
England during His Majesty’s Indian Tour. “
Eczema OLEAC
Cures this terrible itching complaint.
Not a grease. Does not stain the linen.
Full directions each jar. Jars, 4/6; post, 4/10
Used in the Melbourne Homoeopathic
Hospital with success.
ANTHOS-HAIR
Hot a Grease, purely Botanical. |
Written testimony from well-known medical men
One bottle In daily use lasts about 4 months! I
“Anthos” prevents Hair falling out, Dandruff i
and Irritation. Bottles, 2/6 ; posted, 3/3. ’ I
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL CHEMISTS AND
Melbourne : Foy & Gibson’s.
Frank Buckhurst (Mutual Store).
R. W. Beddome & Co., 254 Bourke St.
Geo. Swift (Block) 292 Collins St.
Bowen & Co., Swanston St.
Ballarat: J. W. Scott, Chemist, 141 Sturt St.
Bendigo : D. Anderson, Chemist, View St
Geelong: J. F. Dentry, Chemist, Moorabooi St
Sydney : Pattinson & Co. (all Branches).
Park & Son, 156 Pitt St.
Colonial Representative : Fred. J. E. Phillips, 317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
ftsrroßs to the old country
BAILEYS
GLOUCESTER ROAD,
SOUTH
LOHDofi.SW.
THE NEW LOUNGE.
Under Kqyal Ritronaje.
One of the FINEST examples
of modern OAK CARVING extant
Self-contained Suites.
Public Rooms opening on to
PLEASANT PRIVATE GARDEN.
THE MOST COMFORTABLE HOTEL IN LONDON.
HOTEL
hfd
Beanie's Bronchitis Cure,
THE famous remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
end a Complete Cure is certain.
Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be' generally sufficiJn'l
BBWA.RB OF COUGHS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
„ “Orange, N.S.W.
■Mr. Hearne.—
“Dear Sir, —I enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
»f London, England, from which you will glean that
pour medicine has been a perfect Go'd-send to a martyr to
folds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
nsfer anybody to me.
“ i heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
e.nd. You can see for yourself what an immense success
it was.—Yours faithfully, .”
Extract from letter alluded to above
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
irrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
nuch interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
iff the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
Irom a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
lupplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS’ TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
S
“Derghohn, Victoria.
“Dear Sir,—l wish to add my testimony to the won-
lerful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
ponths, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
Uivas obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
Mvice, and tried other * remedies,’ without avail. I tried
fours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
Irst dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
Wn a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
nay depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
ronderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“ Yours faithfully,
“ JAMES ASTBURY.”
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
tearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
pctly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
ipdoubtedly proveits distinct healing power. Signed by
JOHJLSINOLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
iftymlne other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
. P sed y°? T r r T B T r °" ch * tis .°, ur ® tor®® °! “y family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Oowie s Creek, Victoria.”
•
“ Y ° u ? Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
Quirindi N*S W bUt lam Bendln l> for an °toer bottle in case I should want it.—D. M‘DONALD, Trinkey, via
•
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
•
“ My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
Victoria W ° ndCrfU de3 ° f good ’ lfc havlng < l ulck, y cure “ us both.—R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
•
, I , have one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me. —(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Olenmaggie, Victoria.”
'* I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.*
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time The dim.
culty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W."
' •
Queen“treet I<3 Me 1 lbou?n e i ” W “* disa PP eared after two doses.-0. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
“ I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect The cure was
absolutely miraculous.-F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—O. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria.*
•
C r ,.S' > ”oS? 1 “ ! °° n ’ 1 ““‘ dd * r, “ l «»'"“•'» * ■»«
O. It eued mo right off at ohoa—
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.*
“ I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the b*st I ever had. lam recommending It to evervhndv a
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” • g everybody.-S.
“I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine
TOeLaWHEY&S Mv“ ““CS*NfflS?”* "” a0n '' “ * dir “‘ 01 -V “«< t«aI.—JOHN o.’
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.” q ~ OOI> >
“ pl ? a . se send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria »
•
« Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from vou have milled
me through a long and dangerous illness.—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria " P
• '
“The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effeotfc—OHAS. WHYBROW. Enoch’s
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.” * *
Gratitude and Appreciation.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
“The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne,
Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequentl;
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Viotorii
who during the last few years has been repeatedly work
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchiti
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ae
countant, Collins-street, and the effect that it had was si
marked that he has ever since been continually reconi
mending it to others.
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value o
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has easet
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people evei
In our own circle of acquaintance.
“Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO."
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS
“69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send us 3(
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose oui
cheque to cover amount of order.
“ We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quit*
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
* THOMASON, CHATER & CO.,
“ Wholdfcile Chemist*.”
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPEH
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir, —Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“ I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“Editor G belong Advertise*. "
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.. Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
BRANCH DEPOT
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
„ „ a . n O ffi ce: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d ; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
“ Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical Record.
‘“Benger’s Food’
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medical Record.
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
Benger’s Food
For Infants, Invalids, and the Aged. Delicious, Nutritive, and ligestibie.
Benger’s Food is sold by Chemists, &c. ( Everywhere.
Extracts from Private
Letters.
“ My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult
t) find. My wife sounds
the praise of * Benger’s
Food ’ everywhere.”
“If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.
“ Alba * on a legitimate grievance :
I was talking to an official in a Sydney post office
recently when he asked if I could give him any facts con-
cermng Perkin Warbeck, orZerah, King of the Ethiopians.
He explained bleakly that he was preparing for a Public
Service exam., and Perkin and Zerah seemed to be the
two stillest subjects. Just then a worried female rushed
to the counter and asked a question as to certain Govern-
ment Savings Bank forms. The official regarded her
blankly and said that he didn’t know. The woman almost
wept. Her brother was dying and wished to split up his
bank deposit among certain of his relatives, and didn’t
know how. Couldn’t the official find out for her ? She
remained at. the counter some time, pleading sorrowfully
for information, but in vain. But she has the consolation
perhaps, of knowing that there will be shortly complete
information available as to Perkin Warbeck, and Zerah
King of the Ethiopians, and, possibly, even some facts
about Hoshea, King of Israel.
A quaint story of a hasty marriage was
related recently in a Maoriland court. A red-
necked, commonplace individual confided to a
talkative waiter that he would like to get married,
and offered him £2 if he would procure a lady who
was languishing for a helpmate. The waiter
agreed, and later the applicant was introduced to a
joyous child of nature with hair the golden color
of a summer cornfield. After a two hours
acquaintance the lady consented to make life
endurable for him, and with a new-born joy in his
heart he set about making preparations. His ex-
perience of wedded life was not very exhilarating.
The very day of his marriage he refused to pay
his friend the waiter on the ground that the
wife was not up to standard. The waiter naturally
sued for his £2. Also within three weeks the
happy home was broken up and the lady sued for
maintenance. Husband’s complaint was that she
was always under the influence of gin, and smoked
a packet of bad cigarettes a day. Cruelty was
alleged as a set-off, and the beak made an order
for 10s. a week. After all, the ways of some men
are more inscrutable than those of women, and
these latter—especially the way a woman contrives
to button her dress up the back—no one can hope
to understand.
The luck of drunks and children : At
Rushworth (Vic.) the driver of the Elmore coach
left his empty vehicle in front of a shop for a few
minutes. Six children, aged from 9 years to 15
months, got in, intending to have a ride. The
horses bolted and smashed into a fence. Five
youngsters were thrown, along with the hood of
the trap, over the fence into a garden ; the sixth
was pitched on to the footpath. The coach was
broken to pieces, and yet these six children only
panned out for four scratches among them.
Mr. John de Pass, a fine, handsome, genial
Melbourne merchant of the 70’s (and before), wa»
a member of the Victorian Yeomanry corps (all
paid their own exes.). At a dinner given by the
corps, in responding to a toast, Mr. Lie Pass said
that .he believed he was the first Jewish sol-
dier since Josephus. Which recalls a fact. An
influential Hebrew organisation in London, 20
years ago, asked the Commander-in-Chief to per-
mit all Jewish soldiers in the British Army an
opportunity of observing the Passover and other
religious ceremonies. The “Chief” granted the
request, and notice was sent to the colonel of
every British regiment asking him to make a return
le Jewish soldiers under his command.
When the returns reached the War Office it was
found that in the entire British Army there was
just one Jew. All the same, De Pass was miles
out in his history. Jewry put a score of good
armies in the field after the days of Josephus,
and the noses blotted out the sun when they
battered the declining Roman empire at Tyre
and fought against Mahomet at Koraidba. And
beside when a member of the rich, ornamental
Yeomanry called himself a'soldier he was taking
himself too seriously.


m .as m m
V' v '
,
i
Recent Testimony.
“ 3 Craighall Crescent, Trinity,
“Edinburgh, May 16th, 1901.
“Dear Sirs, — I had your bottle of Kutnow’s
Powder, enjoyed it, and bought another half-
crown one. For the past twelve months I have
been with our troops at the Front, as chaplain,
and, from constant hardship and exposure; have
been run down a bit, with bowels rather irregular,
&e. Let me say it —your Powder has done me
great erood ; I am much better, and take my food
with relish.
“Yours faithfully,
“(Rev.) LENNOX FRASER.”
“ The Military Hospital, Whittington
“Barracks, Lichfield, May 24th, 1901.
“Dear Sirs, — I have been very ill in bed three
weeks to-morrow, suffering from some kidney
disease which the doctors call ‘Nephritis.’ Kindly
send me your Powder, to see if it will cure me, or
towards that way.
“ Yours truly,
“W. H. WILTON (Cpl.),
“Army Service Corps.”
The same address, June 2nd, 1901.
“Dear Sirs, — I am extremely thankful to you
for sending the Powder. I have tried it and feel
sure it has worked a cure. After the third dose
the swellings (dropsical) vanished, and, on the
doctor examining me, he marvelled at the result.
Again thanking you,
“Believe me, yours faithfully,
“W. H. WILTON (Cpl.).”
“ Marion-Sims College,
“ April 3rd, 1901.
“Kutnow’s Powder stimulates the activities of
the bowels and kidneys. A dessert-spoonful in a
tumblerful of water immediately on arising in the
morning cleans out the bowels, dilutes the urine,
and flushes out the kidneys in a most satisfactory
way.
‘ ‘ Thorough elimination is salvation, and there
is no better eliminator than Kutnow’s Powder.
“I. N. LOVE, M.D.”
The SPA-TREATMENT
FIFTY POUNDS.
IT is highly probable that a trip to Europe for a course of waters at any of the famous Spas
would cost over Fifty Pounds, but many who could afford £5O cannot afford the necessary
time. It will therefore be welcome news to learn that all the benefits of the fifty-pound
trip are contained in a bottle of KUTNOW’S POWDER. John Strange Winter (Mrs.
Arthur Stannard), the popular authoress, after trying it, wrote, “That it ought to be known all
over the world. ” The late Sir Morell Mackenzie, M.D., wrote: “I have tried Kutnow’s
Powder, and find it answers particularly well.” Professor Lawson Tait, M.D., wrote :
“Lawson Tait heartily recommends Kutnow’s Powder.”
HEALTH
In thoughtless ease too little prlz’d-
This richer gift than wealth;
Of it bereft, too late we feel
Life is but life with health!
Procrastination in applying a safe and efficient remedy may mean incom-
prehensible mischief to those who suffer from derangement of the digestive or
excretory organs. Success in business or the professions, or in any walk in life,
depends very largely upon the state of health. Men who work with the brain
value health, and men who value health take KTJTKOW’S POWDER. Any
one of the ailments mentioned above may develop into serious disease unless
checked in time. A Sluggish Liver, for instance, produces mental depression,
clogs up the bile-ducts, brings on a bilious condition, and creates excessive uric
acid. Excessive uric acid contaminates the blood, and breeds Gout, Rheu-
matism, Sciatica, and congests the kidneys. Congested kidneys bring on Stone
in the Bladder, Diabetes, Bright’s Disease, and vesical irritations generally.
KUTNOW’S POWDER is simply invaluable in the treatment of these
derangements, and will restore the bloom of vigorous health to the most debili-
tated patient. It is an exact reproduction of the famous medicinal merits of
the waters of the European Spas, minus any of their drastic or lowering
properties.
Beware of Fraudulent Imitations.
, KUTNOW’S POWDER may be. obtained in capsuled bottles, of all Chemists and Medi-
cine Vendors. See that the Registered Trade Mark, “ Hirschensprung ” (or Deer Leap), and
the autograph facsimile signature, “S. KUTNOW and Co. (LD.),”areon the label and carton
ONLY THESE ENSURE GENUINENESS. INSIST ON “KUTNOW’S,” AND
FIRMLY REFUSE ANY SUBSTITUTES; THEY ARE WORTHLESS AND OFTEN
Injurious.
Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & CO., LTD., 41 FARRINODON ROAD, LONDON, E.C.
Proprietors in U.S.A.: KUTNOW BROS., LTD., 853 BROADWAY, NEW YORK CITY, U.S.A.
A Striking Success
Unquestionably the necessity of vigorous health
is seriously personal to everyone, and fortunately
science has triumphantly provided the means
whereby the debilitated may regain and retain a
re-vitalised energy. The curative and healing
virtues of the waters of the famous European
Spas are now embodied in Kutnow’s Powder,
which is presented in the form of a beautifully
white, dry effervescent. It is improved by the
deletion of the drastic and nauseous elements of
the medicinal springs. By removing the drastic
constituent and introducing a palatable ingre-
dient Kutnow’s Powder is decidedly preferable
to the original waters.
Its advantages are:—
Firstly—
The power to expel the excess of bile and
acids; also, the poisonous and putrefying
deposits in the bowels and kidneys.
Secondly—
The power to stimulate a sluggish liver and
to eliminate all the excessive Urio Aoid.
Thirdly—
The virtue of not only cleansing the bowels
and diluting the urine, but at the same time
exercising a soothing influence on the system
generally.
Fourthly—
The freedom it induces in the flow of the
gastric juices, thereby removing all the terrors
of indigestion.
Fifthly—
The utility of combining curative properties
with strengthening and invigorating virtues:
it is cooh’i's> to the blood, refreshing to the
brain, and . 'talising to the whole system.
mmm
Pocket Knives make good, useful
Presents, especially when they are fitted
with Silver or Gold Handles, such as we
illustrate above. All have rings on one
end, so that you can attach to chain.
The small size i$ suitable for a lady.
Solid Silver, 5/6, 6/6, 8/6. Solid Gold,
l4/6, 22/6, 27/6.
r?2>
sg'Zfa
a?
i
m
i§
1
K*J
«ae&
re?
This is an exceptionally handsome
Powder Jar of best English Out Glass,
with charmingly-designed Solid Silver
Top and Mounts. Price, £2 15s.
hfd
We have just opened out the best lot
of Pin and Sweet Trays (in Solid Silver)
you could wish to see. Never have we
seen such pretty designs, combined
with so much finish and weight. The
prices for Pin Trays run 5/6, 6/6, 10/6,
11/6; and for Sweet Dishes, 6/6, 10/6,
l3/6.
hfd
This Out-Glass Butter Dish, with
strongly Silver-Plated Stand and Lid,
good for many years of use, only 12 6.
Lots of others, from 10/6 to 21/-.
4/2 GEORG?jTsycw
All Goods sent Free on Receipt of Remittance.
WRITE FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
"TSgSTTTa
This shows quite a novel design of Brooch—two
15c. Gold Bars, with a Diamond in centre, in
which are set 4 lovely Opals, £2 12s 6d.
h
One of our most popular Brooches is illustrated
here. It is made of 9c. Gold, and has a pretty,
Opal-set Fly in the centre. Strong and Service-
able. £1 5s each.
fdh
This is a 2-Bar, Brooch in 15c. Gold, with two
exquisite Opal Hearts and Opal-set Star in centre.
The price is £2 10s.
*
fie
The New Bird, Bell and L af Brooch, 9c. Gold,
only 11/6.
fdh
Bar and Crescent Brooch, in either a combination
of Diamonds and Rubies or Diamonds and
Sapphires. Excellent value at £l2 10s.
fdh
This shows _ the ever-popular Nellie Stewart Bangle. We stock
three sizes, in 9c. and 15c. Gold. The one we .illustrate is the large
size. Each is perfectly made, with invisible joint and catch. 9c.
Gold, £2 10s, £3 3s, £4 ; 15c. Gold, £3 7s 6d, £5, £7.
fd
Real New Zealand Greenstone, mounted with 9c. Gold, as Pendants
for gentlemen’s watch-chains. We make these in two sizes—as
illustrated, 13/6 ; size smaller, 12/6.
hfd
The Fishionable Bamboo Bracelet, strong, well-made and
fini: hjd, and fitttd with Safety Chain. 9c. Gold, £2;
15c. Gold, £4.
P 5
rap
i
1
ip
ii
!WS
1
«
mm,
in
si
<W/I
§Y»
K
«9
»
91
i
n
«
i
lii
The New Wire-effect Solid Silver Belt-Clasps. Strong make, and
quite a change from the old style of Clasp. As above, 15/6. Another,
of equally pretty design, for 14/6.
i «BSEa?'
We have just 24 of these handy articles,
Teapot Stands, in stock ; so don’t be too
late. They save the table many a scorching
—a thing to be considered and guarded
against. They have pretty Tile Centres and
heavy Plated Mounts. Price, 10/6, post free.
h
This is a New Pattern of Biscuit B6x. It
is made of Solid Nickel Silver, heavily
Plated and good for 30 years’ wear. The
glass can be removed for cleaning pur-
poses. Price, £2 10s. Other Glass Biscuit
Barrels from 16/6 to 30/-.
mm
mm
mmm
Out Glass and Solid Silver Trinket Box..
Makes a tasty Wedding or Birthday
Present. It is good English Out Glass, not
a scratch here and there. The price is 25/-
YOURMONLYS
IB WORTH (ft
m
WK2ZL
at
This Cabinet-size Solid Silver Photo. Frame
costs but 12,6 ; while the Carte de Visit is
5/.-, and the Midjyet, plain, only 3/-. Each
of these lines are splendid value. If you
are not satisfied when you receive them,
you can have your money back.


WOOL. PRODUCE. GRAIN.
The New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agencj
Coy., Ltd., SYDNEY,
ACT AS SELLIRTG- BTTOKEIETS OKTEY.
Consignors are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of this Company.
WOOL
COMMISSION FOR SELLING ... ... THREE-QUARTERS (f) PER CENT.
WAREHOUSING
'(lncluding Receiving into Store, Fire Insurance,
Weighing, Lotting, Repacking, Sample Bales,
Advertising, Cataloguing, etc.) on Wool real-
ising over SIXPENCE per lb. the charges
• will be 3s. 9d. per Bale.
On Wools realising SIXPENCE and over Four-
pence per lb. ... ... ... • 2s. 6d. per Bale.
On Wools realising FOURPENCE per lb. and
c under ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Is. 6d. per Bale.
Perfect System of Weighing. Way Bills sent on Application.
PRODUCE
SALES of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, etc., HELD WEEKLY.
WHEAT.
Every inducement is offered growers to consign their grain for realisation by the Company,
Ample accommodation is provided. Three months free storage is allowed. Circulars are sent whe.
desired giving cost of railage and full particulars as to Charges, Advances, etc., etc.
AGENTS FOB McDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP.
TRADE
MARK
FOX Bros. & Co., Ltd., warn the public that their Trade Mark consists
ONLY OF THE WORD FOX
which is a guarantee of soundness of material and quality of dye of all
Worsted Coatings, Serges STweeds
on which it is stamped.
As the result of many years of experience . . .
FOX’S PURE INDIGO DYE
is recognised as the best in the market. All FOX’S Standard Cloths are
stamped every two yards on the back —
FOX
PURE INDIGO
and without this stamp are not genuine. These celebrated serges can be
obtained from the leading Tailors and Drapers throughout the Colonies.
rox BROS & Co., Ltd., WELLINGTON, SOMERSET, England.
*/A-
Crozine Blacking
is a waterproof polish that produces a brilliant and permanent
gloss, which will not rub off. Shoes polished with “ Crozine
Blacking ” wear long, because it is an oil dressing, which softens
the leather. “ Crozine Blacking ”is guaranteed to be absolutely
free from all harmful substances, and will be found to be the
most satisfactory dressing made for all walking boots and shoes.
Sold almost everywhere. If not found, write at once to
C. L. HAUTHAWAY £* SONS, Boston, Mass., U.SA.
price 6s.
Ffwt Free,
SELECTION.
BY
“Steele Rudd.
ELECTRICAL
and
MINING ENGINEERS,
*%)'« melbo^
NOTE NEW ADDRESS!
Yaralla Chambers,
109 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE Office: 15 &17 Queen Street.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
PLAYS
Catalogue
Free . . .
French’s Acting Edition.
fdh
Rare Books
French Novels
Books the Married
Extra Special Catalogue of
, Jioolts Free .
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne*
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I*o DEFY COMFETITION.
WINES ne “ SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, Sea.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
DAPTO (Lalie
(U MIT HD).
Illawarra),
SYDNEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
• • • •
PR.ODXJ CERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
.. V -Sip
‘ ; T ! ' "'
.
MAKERS OF
S. Co, of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
IX.Ii AW ARRA”
• • BRAND OF*. *
SOFT LEAD.
fll 1 f r OLD SILVER LEAD and COPEER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS' SV EEP REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
p “" b ““ ra ° f *“ classes of aou> ’ highest prices paid eor ores. prompt cash settlement ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
KW oil information regarding Rates, etc., apply to P. S. Mouse, Manager,
Th neltinß Company of Australia, Ltd.i DAPTO* N t B.W«


CHE APPRECIATION of the AN by those
who have had an intimate association with it in
the home, centres attention on that which
constitutes the chief value of the AHQLJAN
—the inexhaustible source of pleasure it pro=
vides in the household .
It is a solo orchestra, always ready for any occasion, and the playing of it requires no
musical skill. Overtures, symphonies, and entire operas can be played by the brain-
tired business man, his wife or. his daughter. The experiences all the
pleasure of hand playing, because he controls the expression, which is the soul of
music. If you wish accompaniments for dancing or singing, or if you wish to hear the
latest popular air you need only turn to your .dEolian.
The majority of those wh@ hear the for the first time express
surprise, saying they have been unable to comprehend until then what
it was like. Many of our patrons, after using the .dEolian, for six
months, go ©ut of their way to tell us of the pleasure they have derived
from their purchases, evincing a degree of enthusiasm which leaves no
room for doubt as to their complete conversion.
This enthusiasm is the
rule, not the exception.
Why is it ?
Unquestionaoly it sug-
gests that the iEolian
is worthy of your atten-
tion, and that every day
you delay you» investi-
gation ofthe instrument
you are cutting your-
self off from a source
of pleasure about which
you might become
equally enthusiastic.
fm
The unqualified
endorsement of the
/fcOLIAN
by practically every
MUSICIAN OF
PROMINENCE
IN EUROPE
AND AMERICA
assures its artistic
status.
We reproduce extracts from a few letters from our patrons.
These letters bear the signatures of some of the most prominent people in this country.
, . “It is simply impossible for me to tell you all the pleasure and satisfaction I
experience in the interpretation of the sublime and melodious thoughts of some of the
greatest musical composers of the past and present.”
. . “ Having had the over ten years, changing it occasionally as improve-
ments have been made, I feel under no consideration could I be induced to part with
it. It is a soul harmonizer, eliminating the fret and care which business brings, and
for this reason alone worth its weight in gold.”
, . “ The /Eolian is in my estimation the greatest musical instrument that has ever
been invented—greatest because it has brought all the best music practically within the
reach of every music lover. The famous composers reside no longer with the favoured
few. They are now at home wherever the iEolian is. My Grand stands in my work-
ing den, not far from my desk, ever ready to soothe, to inspire, and to divert. ”
The smallest instrument embodies the same principles, is just as perfect in construction, and plays as
many selections as the most expensive styles. jEo) ians may be purchased on the hire system if desired.
You are invited to visit at our warerooms, if for no other reason than to learn more about this re-
markable instrument—what it is and what it will do.. If you are unable to call, and the subject
interests you, we shall be pleased to send you a descriptive catalogue.
THE /COLIAN CO. OF NEW YORK.
HENRY M. BIRGE A CO.
SYDNEY: 323 George St.
MELBOURNE: 185 & IS7 Collins St.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
m
m
m
m
m
\ m
Wmmm
msmmm
> -
mm
m
mm
m
mmim
'^m>.
MlWmm.
W.
■Hi
v<4.
V
*
ft .
WUmm
'<*; -
m
UMM
r -* : m wr\
ife hi til
IfPliS
Did She?
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
The name of the place doesn’t matter. People
who’ve been there don’t want to go back ; people
who haven’t have lost nothing.
At all events, the black "fever was there
and the yellow flag—and as much excite-
ment as the latitude allowed ' of. And the
solitary Briton at the sole hotel had asked
himself, many times, why the several things !
he didn’t go away before it struck him
that he couldn't. Few ships called, and no ship
would take him. So, being a globe-dawdler—not
trotter—and fearing the fever little, Ormiston
sketched and scribbled, and grumbled, and
waited.
But, one evening, when the treacherous miasm
was sneaking out to work more mischief than the
bullying sun, there came to him a message from a
doctor whom he knew. Would he, as the only
other Englander in the place, come to the hos-
pital to see a countryman, left fever-stricken
by a Swedish ship, and—thought the doctor
moribund, or near it.
Ormiston —not an “Englander”—didnt like
being called one ; but he went.
• • * •
Entering the corridor, he met her —the woman
whose shudder-breeding disfigurement had set
him, like others, guessing at the story she would
never tell. For she spoke no more to any than
her nurse’s duty asked for—a woman with the key
of her mind turned on the inside —night-haired
and olive-skinned, and with features that would
have given her, as nature left them, large claims
to beauty. But, round each eye—in deep blue
pigment—ran a line that rudely traced the bony
margin of its orbit; on each side the face another
line was deftly made to indicate the outline of a
fleshless cheek; the living mouth’s significance
was lost in the boldly-marked presentment of two
lipless ranks of gumless teeth that completed the
suggestion—grotesquely ghastly—of a skull —the
Head of Death upon a breathing body !
She took him to the bed, and said, in English
fragmentary but distinct:
“He sleep! Please, sit! He better when he
wake. Yes —smoke ! ” —as the visitor inquiringly
held up his cigar-case. “ But, not give he ! He
ask, all time, tobac-co ! to-bac-co ! ”
So, in the shaded lamp-light, Ormiston waited,
smoking, and thinking more of this mysterious
woman than of the man he had come to see, till
from the bed a voice, with a cyclonic flavor even
in its weakness, said suddenly :
“ Stitch me in a hammock ! —but that is a good
one! ”
A bullet-head had turned upon the pillow—the
eyes of it fixed on the cigar; a blunt nose sniffed
the smoke. “Oh, Lord!” commented the sub-
jacent mouth, with such a fervor of appreciation
that the smoker hastened to say :
“I’d like to give you one, my poor chap !—but,
you know ”
“ Oh, yes !—the reg’lations ! Sink the jabbering
Dutch lubbers !—l’d get better sixteen-knots-an-
hour if I’d a pipe in my mouth half-a-dozen times
a day! ”
“Get better?” the other echoed, doubtfully;
“ I hope so ! But, you’re—you’re very bad, you
know ! ”
The sick man jerked up a mighty pair of
shoulders from the bed. “See that?” he asked,
defiantly, as he flopped helplessly down again
“ ’Taint the fust of this here rotten fever I’ve
seen, mister —by a long way ! —and I never saw a
man go dead that could get half-a-foot of day-
light under him like that. And, anyhow, you’re
a what’s-his-name’s sort of a comforter — you
are ! ”
“ All right, my lad; I’m glad you keep your
heart up. But, don’t try any more gymnastics,
just yet, or, I shall have to call the nurse.”
“ Her ! The skull-faced one, is it ? Oh,
blazes ! ” and the patient shook with a feeble
laughter which jarred so fantastically upon his
sorrowful surroundings that the visitor got hastily
up. But the other stretched a huge brown arm—
as hairy as an ape’s.
“ Sit down, 3ir !—sit down ! Not off-my-head,
I ain’t!—if that’s what you’re thinkin’! You’re
the Englishman they told me about, of course!
’Twas kind of you to come, too. ’Scuse me for
not sayin’ so before. But, you see—about this
here death’s-head Spaniard ! Didn’t know she
was a Span, did you ? ”
Curiosity and the visitor sat down together.
This man wasn’t wandering—any more than he
was going to die—if Ormiston was any judge.
“ No ! ” he said. “ Nobody here knows any-
thing about her.”
“There you’re out, mister! Vm here—worse
luck!—and I know all about her. And she’d
know me, too, fast enough—if it wasn’t for this
here ‘up-endage,’ as they calls it.” His rope-
seared fingers gripped his bush of grizzling beard.
Then he beckoned, and the other stooped his ear.
“ A’mighty’s sake, sir !—let me have a puff on the
quiet! No —by gum ! —here she comes —and the
sawbones along of her ! ”
The young Dutch doctor felt the pulse, and
spoke to Ormiston in French.
“He’ll do—this fellow—after all. According
to all precedent, he ought to have died, but, like
the rest of you Englanders, he’s an obstinate kind
of animal! ” He ran an appreciative professional
finger over the herculean chest and shoulders —
said a word or two to the nurse, and passed on.
The woman poured out medicine and would
have raised the storm-battered head, but the
sailor hove it up himself, and watched her keenly
while he drank. And the visitor, watching also,
saw no flicker of recognition in the hideously-
perverted face.
“However well you know her,” he said when
she had gone, “ she doesn’t know you ! I suppose
we may venture now ?’’—handing a cigar, and
offering his own to light it,
The brawny giant veiled himself with vapour
before he answered—
“ Dunno but it’s as well she don’t! S’pose
she’d hardly go for to stick a knife in my gizzard,
hereaway ; but, by gum ! she’d have a rare good
slant to pizen me ! Holes in me I’ve had a good
few, in my time, but I’ve never been pizened yet
—outside a Scotch ship’s rations ! ”
Ormiston looked at his watch. “ I’ll come again
to-morrow,” he said. “You’ll be stronger then,
and your yarn will keep.”
A graver mood came over the other like a fore-
falling shadow. “My yarn will keep,” he said,
slowly—“but—p’r’aps I won’t! And I’d take it
kind if you’d keep your anchor down for an hour
or so. It’s no use heavin’ good cuss-English at
these here yee-yawin’ Dutchies ! ”
Ormiston sat down again. “ That nurse speaks
English, in a way,” he said.
“Good reason why! Her husband was an
Englishman. That’s what my yarn’s a-hangin’
to ! Light up again yourself, and I’ll heave ahead
with it. Won’t take long ; it’s short, if it ain’t
sweet!
“’Twas over in Amboyna, about a dozen years
ago, that I dropped across a mate I , hadn’t
seen for another dozen before that. Bo’s’n of a
Blackwall liner, Billy Hawkins was, when I was a
quartermaster in her, and great chums we was, as
well as townies. Only—Billy havin’ a lot more
eddication than me—l knew he was bound to
stump the poop, sooner or later; so, when I falls
in with him again, it didn’t altogether lay me flat-
aback to find him ‘ Cap’en Hawkins, at your ser-
vice ! ’ Not much of a ship, she wasn’t —a 600-ton
‘country-wallah,’ as they calls ’em hereaway —
Moulmein-built, and manned with little yaller
rats of Java-men ; but, for all that, I tell you old
Billy thought big brass buttons of himself —and
wore ’em, too —and had took a wife on the
strength of ’em likewise. A Luzon-woman she
was—Philippines, you know —Spanish, with a
dash of native, and as handsome as—as a angel.
But the devil was a lot more in her line. And
this is her.”
“The nurse?"
“You bet! And—poor swivel-eyed old Billy !
with the end of his nose like a mandarin-orange
what in thunder she made fast to him for lays me
clean out —’less ’twas for the name of bein’ a
cap’n’s missis. But, by the time she got down to
Amboyna, she’d hove all that overboard. Billy
was like dirt under her feet; ’cause, you see, the
poor old swab was that gone on her that he
couldn’t nohow hoist in the notion that she hated
him already. But she did—and scorned him
worse than a buck-nigger, too —as I told him one
day when I’d gone aboard to see him and she’d
slung a glass o’ wine over him. ‘Take that
aboard, old ship,’ says I, ‘and she’ll spit in your
face, next tack 1 Forbearance with a woman’s all
shipshape enough,’ I says, ‘ up to a certing point.
Pass that —and they only despises of you !’ At
that he begins to growl, something like his old
self—way down in his stummick. ‘ And she
despises of me, you think ?’ he says. ‘ Dead sure,
Billy, she do ! And that’s total wreck ! A feller
has always some chance with a woman that only
hates him !’
“Well, he says never a word for five minutes —
haulin’ in the slack of it, like —and then it _ hits
him sudden, like a brick ! ‘You’re gospel-right,
chummy !’ says he— ‘ I may haul down that flag as
soon as I like ! What’ll Ido with her ? —cut her
adrift ?’ ‘ Please yourself, Billy,’ says I; * but I’d
take some of the blasted pride out of her, fust, if
I was you.’ And I tells him of an old Spanish
buccaneerin’ dodge with women that carried too
much weather-helm. ‘ You don’t want nothin’, I
says, ‘ but common tattooin’-gear, and a stiff dose
of laudanum to keep her quiet, and a sketch I’ll
tell you how to make.’ ”
The listener sat back, with widened eyes, and
pointed along the shadowy corridor. “Good
God !” he said. “A sketch of that ?”
The other sucked back life to his cigar-stump
before he answered:
“That?- On the woman’s face ? Yes! And a
fust-class job Billy made of it!— ‘ exact unto plans
and specifications,’ as the shipbuilders say in
their contracks.”
But the twinkle in the cheerful ruffian’s eye
found no response. “ Did he tell you ?■” Ormiston
asked, staring at the floor.
“ Tell me ? Noll never clapped eyes on him
after he sailed ; nor on her, neither—till now.”
Ormiston still kept his eyes away. Coherent as
all this sounded, he thought it might just pos-
sibly be raving—a web of weird imaginings,
woven round that horror-striking countenance.
“ Then you cannot know this thing was done ? ”
he said.
The man of original suggestion stared at him
contemptuously.
“ Know ?” he said. “ Can’t I see ? You don’t
suppose she did it herself, do you? You don’t
suppose—oh ! be-lay ! ”
Ormiston looked quickly up. Between them
stood the nurse !—from what shadowy corner
stolen out, he knew not.
“How much has she heard?—how much com-
prehended?” was the thought in both men’s
minds; but the woman gave no sign, and the
seaman’s coarse audacity recovered.
‘ ‘ Time to go, mister, I’m afraid ! Here’s my
beauty come to tell you so ! ”
“ Yes ; time go ! ” the nurse said in her strange,
staccato English. “ Time he sleep. Again—you
come ! ”
There was dull monotony in her voice, as she
pointed towards the bed, but into her apathetic
eye, as she faced the visitor, there sprang a gleam
so swift and evanescent that he was hardly sure it
had been there.
“Good-night! ”he said. “ I’ll come again to-
morrow.”
“ To-morrow —yes ! —to-morrow ! ” the woman
echoed, as she left him at the door. “To-
morrow ! ” she repeated, as she walked back along
the corridor—and then her fellow-nurses heard
what they had never heard before —the Death-
Woman laughing!
* * ♦ *
When Ormiston came back, next evening, the
sailor was dead ! — and buried !
“ A bit of a surprise to us ! ” the tow-headed
young doctor admitted. “The fellow wasn’t so
obstinate, after all! He consented, you see, to
die secundum ordinem ! ”
“Your joke does you little credit, sir ! What
was it—a relapse ? ”
“Well ’.—hum !—hardly that! I’m rather in-
clined to think it was heart-mischief ! ”
“Inclined to think, my good sir ! Don’t you
know ? Was there no autopsy ? ”
The Dutchman looked everywhere but at his
questioner. “No !” he said. “ We’re not over-par-
ticular here in that way at any time, and, just now,
we’ve less leisure than ever for formalities. And,
why these inquiries, mynheer? What is it that
you think ? ”
But Ormiston didn’t know exactly what to
think.
And he doesn’t know yet!
N.s.w.
ALEX. MONTGOMERY.
The eternal marriage question has been
giving some trouble at Florida, Solomon Islands.
The wife-buying custom obtains in that obscure
locality—or rather, money presents are made to
the bride’s relations, which is the same thing.
Latterly, however, the price of eligible females
has gone up so high that a poor nigger can’t afford
the luxury. One native teacher sold his daughter
to another pious individual for 150 strings of shell
money and 1000 porpoise teeth. This came to the
ears of the Bishop of Melanesia, who sacked the
teacher for extortion and for unduly forcing up the
price of one of the necessaries of life—girl. It
appears that the price was twice that asked for a
chief’s plump and well-favored- daughter in the
old days. The whole matter was gone into while
the Bishop was there, and the native legislature
fixed on 30 strings as the minimum price for a girl
among common people and 50 strings in the case
of the elite.


WHILE LOOKINGforRAIN
LOOK TO YOUR HEALTH
... BY TAKING ....
/
z
0
’J
V
AMONGST the citizens of Australia
and in all parts of the world, BILE
BEANS FOR BILIOUSNESS
have earned for themselves, by
their unequalled excellence, a reputation
which places them to-day far in advance of
any other similar preparation. This specific
is not a carelessly-prepared nostrum ; on the
contrary, it is the result of long and thought-
ful research on the part of a medical man,
who, after years of study, discovered a
natural vegetable substance which, after fur-
ther study, he succeeded in compounding /
with other ingredients, so that its effect on f
the digestive organism of the human system
is identical with that of the natural bile
created by the liver. Finding this, then, to
be the most natural catharic obtainable, the
public rapidly accepted it in preference to
all others, and consequently the old methods
of starving and the use of pepsin and bismuth
sank into insignificance and oblivion. Acting
on the bowels in a gentle manner, Bile Beans
do not weaken or in any way distress the
patient. This is a point in which they differ
materially from nearly all laxative remedies
sold to-day, as the latter usually act in a
violent manner, weakening the patient and in many cases doing more harm than good. Bile
Beans have been aptly termed “ a medicine for the people at a popular price.” Many wonder
how this remedy can have the great virtue that we claim for it, and still be sold at so reason-
able a price ; yet the solution is simple. Millions upon millions of Bile Beans are consumed
annually (a fact that in itself is of positive proof that the world’s inhabitants know how to
appreciate a really genuine remedy, and that they have found that remedy in Bile Beans for
Biliousness). Owing to this immense annual sale we are enabled to purchase the very best
drugs in exceedingly large quantities, and thus get them at a great deal lower price than if we
bought only moderate quantities at a time. Then, again, Bile Beans are manufactured in
possibly the largest and best-equipped laboratories in the world. In this establishment only
the very best of latest improved machinery is used, and this fact also greatly minimises the
cost of production. Thus it will be seen that through the great consumption the proprietors
are enabled to sell this valuable remedy at a price that places it within the reach of all.
fdh
f
BIOSES
&
inEffectiveCur
Blight Imfl akko Eyes&Lios
Weak Eyes Dimness E T - e
n
551 GEORGE ST _
JxSYDNEY./^
Si3£VsTA«USHED IBBtyjjgfl
REGD. LABEL.
The Greatest Discovery of Modern Times
. . FOE . .
ALL EYE COM PL AINTS
from any cause whatever.
ASK FOR
ROSE’S
Celebrated Eye Lotion
A CERTAIN CURE for Sandy Blight, Granulations, Bunged Eves,
Dimness of Sight Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids, Weak Eyes caused by
ust, Sun-Glare, Overwork, &c., Swelling Blight resulting from stings
of flies and insects.
Used with equal success on the Eyes of Cattle, Sheep, Poultry, &c.
Largely used by Rifle-Shooters and Literary Men.
Testimonials from leading Commercial and Professional Men throughout Australia.
Sole Proprietor . . .
H. A. ROSE, 531 George St., Sydney
So.d by all Chemists and Storekeepers. £2T Beware of Imitations.
Ya
-'ll /.if
t *
1 1
hfd
The “LANCET” says
“We counsel the public to drink Lime-Fruit Juice
whenever and wherever they list. It is a far more
wholesome drink than any form of Alcohol.”
“Montserrat” Lime-Fruit Juice either with water
aerated water is a delightful thirst quencher.
Sole Consignees—
EVANS, LESCHER & WEBB, LONDON.
EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
AGENTS— Elliott Bitos., Lfcrt ; J, Connell & Co., Sydney.
D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s)
Circular-Pointed Pens. J
Seven Prize Medals Awarded*
Neither scratch nor spurt, the
points being rounded by a new
process.
Attention is also
drawn to their
new
“GRADUATED
SERIES Of PENS.”
Each pattern being made in four degrees
nf I\j>3r.ibili.tu and Paintx
h
4 sk your Storekeeper for an Assorted Sample Box of either series.
Works: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND,
The Three Little Children.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Just three little children, laughing away in the
sun ;
The oldest one of them toddling and hardly able
to run.
Chasing the flame-colored beetles, sighing to hold
the bright things
Drowsily whirling above them, glitter of gold on
their wings.
Till the ’possum leaped from the gum-tree all in the
midst of their play—
Fleeing from three little children that followed
and lost their way.
Away from the grass-sown paddocks—away from
the home in view;
Far into the grim bush shadows, and out of the
world they knew !
How late were the children playing ! “ Coo-ee
them in to their tea —
They must be there by the wattles, or aswing in
the grey gum tree.”
But they came not back for our calling, and slow
o’er the broken plain
The black witch, Night, came slouching, in a
cloak of drifting rain.
“Muster the hands of the stations, and out with
the rising sun,
For the babes of the free selector, lost on the
Skeleton run ! ”
But the rain had blurred the traces, for the Night
was leagued with hell,
And the Bush was safe and secret, and she kept
her counsel well.
God! Why did the rain fall faster? Why kept
not the wind at bay,
For the sake of three little children that had
wandered and lost their way ?
And why did the morning's sun beat like flame on
the steaming sands ?
To burn on the rain-wet faces, and the small, weak,
blistered hands ?
We watched as the fifth dawn lifted the lids of
her slow grey eyes,
And saw a vulture sailing far out o’er a stony
rise—
Just a black blot on the sky-line, a-wheel on a
circling track:
As we raised a shout to the children, the scream
of the hawk came back.
“ ’Tis but a death-bird gloating o’er a lamb lost
out on the plain ” ;
But rousing the sleeping trackers, we took up the
quest again.
We came on a white sun-bonnet caught fast on a
bramble edge
Where a vulture rose from the bushes, as we
climbed the stony ledge;
And, there —with their wee, cold faces pressed
close to the#and, they lay ;
But the souls of three little children had long ago
passed away.
m.l.
LOLA.
Our New Selection.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We were encountering reverses. No rain for
months; nothing but heat, heat, and scorching
gales. Then it rained when we least required it—
in the middle of the hay-making—and poured for
weeks; poured till the cut-off thirty acres of oats,
the only crop in the district, rotted and was
ruined.
Two successive seasons the wheat failed—once
when it had grown higher than the fence a late
frost blackened and withered it all up in one
night; and once it didn’t grow at all.
“Don’t know,” said Dad, gloomily—“don’t
know at all ! ” Then, after reflecting :
“ Jimmy Tyson hisself couldn’t stand much o’
these seasons. Most uncertent. A season or two
more, ’n a man might lose all lie’s ever earnt an’
not have a bloomin’ stick.”
Dad’s reflections only made him unhappy. He
wasn’t so brave as he used to be, and the loss of a
few pounds worried him and gave him nightmares.
Dad was fond of money, now. He thought more
of it than he did of Mother.
Dad complained of his prospects to old Martin
M'Evoy, of the Twelve Mile. Martin believed in
butter. He milked a few old cows and once or
twice a week trotted his cart to the railway
station, and the inhabitants of Saddletop would
stand at their doors and stare and grin at him
whenever he passed along the road. Martin and
his butter were a source of amusement to them.
They regarded it as undignified to fake round a
lot of old milkers and drag fluid out of them.
They were farmers.
“i car At see wot you've t’ growl about,” M'Evoy
said, casting an eye over our lucerne paddocks,
and at the cattle camped near the gate. “ If I hed
them paddocks and them cows I’d mek a thousan’
a year.”
Dad grunted his incredulity.
“ I wud—no damn mistake.” (A pause.) “ Out
o’ ten I mek four nuts a week now,” and Martin
looked defiant.
“ Out o’ butter ?” Dad stared.
“Yes, butter,” Martin shouted—“a damsite
better ’n wheat." Then he jumped from his cart
and dragged some papers from his greasy trousers-
Iiockot. He showed Dad an invoice and a cheque.
)a 1 didn’t take his eyes off the cheque till Mar-
tin returned it to his pocket with a triumphant
snort; then he looked at the lucerne-paddocks
and the cows, and thought. Martin drove on.
• * » •
For several days Dad was inactive. He spent
his time in a chair on the verandah. Dave and
Joe missed him in the paddock. They wished he
would stay on the verandah all his life. But Dad
was only working out a problem.
D id left the verandah suddenly one afternoon
and went among the cattle. A fine-looking lot
they were —sleek and fat; and beyond an odd one
killed for our own use, which mostly went bad in
the cask and was thrown out, they were only a
nuisance on the place and devoured more hay at
IJad s hands than they were worth. To Dad,
though, they were priceless. He was never done
admiring them. They were his pictures—his oil-
paintings—his art-gallery.
cows .... twenty-six pounds a
week, Dad muttered and returned to tne house,
and sat till tea. Dad was cheerful and questioned
Dave about the ploughing; then he broke new
ground and spoke enthusiastically of dairying.
He went into figures and said the cow-yard was
to be put in working order the next day. Dave
was silent. Sarah was inclined to debate the
matter, but Dad silenced her. “ I’ve thought it
all out,” he said, waving his hand, “and know
just what I’m about.”
* • * *
Breaking day. A hard, biting frost that
whitened everything and crunched and cracked
beneath you when you walked, was over the land.
OoJd ! Charity was nothing to it. The horses
stood shivering at the big gate, waiting for their
hay; cockatoos screamed in the trees up the
gullv ; Cook’s roosters crowed faintly in the dis-
tance—-ours lustily answered back horse-bells
timcled-tankled on the reserve; the smoke of a
camp-fire curled into the frosty air 5 forms of
horsemen moved quietly about, and a thousand
head of travelling cattle took shape.
a shout or two, and the cows
with Bill close on their heels rushed into the
yard.
Dave and Joe and Cranky Jack came out,
grumbled at the cold, stared at the travelling
cattle moving from the reserve, and started rnilk-
P'cy milked in silence and were nearly
finished when Dad’s angry voice was heard at the
barn. He wanted to know why the devil the
ITH GS WerS not fed ’ aUd shuffled about yelling for
barah brought a can of hot tea and some bread
and butter into the yard. Dad came along swing-
ing his arms.
“They don’t want thet here,” he snapped
take it away ! ” ’
Joe grabbed some of the provender and swilled
a cup of tea. Sarah grinned.
Dad scowled and measured the milk in the tins
with his eye, then entered the yard and inspected
the cows, and stared sternly at the milkmen. Dad
was a watchful overseer.
Dad turned and called boisterously to Sarah as
she returned to the house. Joe, in a cheerful
mood, pointed a cow’s teat over his shoulder and
directed a stream of milk at Dad. Dad danced
round and looked in the air and down at his feet
and wiped his neck with his hand. Then he
growled at a red cow that was facing him and
shaking her head and throwing froth from her
nose.
Joe entered into an argument, across the yard
with Dave, about a pony mare of Doolan’s.
“Get on with th’ milkin’,” Dad said, im-
patiently, “an’ let th’cows out—lots t’be’done
without yarnin,” and he hobbled round some
more, returning to the same spot again, and ex-
hibiting increased impatience.
“ She’s by Badger,” Joe went on.
“ Gerrout,” Dave said.
“Bet y’ quid,” and, as if to book the bet, Joe
stood up, placing his bucket on the ground.
“Dammit,” Dad hollered, “why ’n th’ devil
carn’t y’ get on ? Are y’ goin’t’ be .”
Joe looked at him. The red cow with the
frothy nose had approached Dad closely, and
seemed to mistake him for a heap of hay. She
wasn t a handsome beast anyway you viewed her,
nor a dangerous-looking one, either.”
Look out that red cow don’t charge,” Joe
said (which was the last thing in the world he
would expect the brute to do).
Dad glanced down quickly. He was taken by
surprise. Sudden consciousness of the cow’s close
proximity startled him. Like a rooster hit with
a brick when half-way up his top-note, he cut
short a yell intended for Joe, and lifting his big
right foot aimed a heavy kick at the cow’s head.
His boot, a hard, ill-shaped blucher, grazed her
forehead, and sliding under the animal’s hoop-
horns held fast. The cow swung round, Dad
dropped on his back, and clutched with both
hands at the ground, and waved his left leg
menacingly at the brute. Finding Dad a fixture
she became hysterical. She bellowed and ran back-
wards and put her tongue out in an ugly curl.
“My G-G-God! Help, help!” Dad shouted.
I he other cows rushed round the yard ; one shoved
the rails down, and they all passed out.
Dave and Joe sprang to Dad’s assistance.
JNeither, for the moment, could see a way to extri-
cate him. Cranky Jack jammed a finger into
each of his ears and laughed—and looked
humorous. Dave rushed to the cow’s horns; Joe
to her tail; then vice versa.
Round the yard the cow backed, bellowing more
and more. She trampled over Joe’s bucket and
spilt the milk, and made a track through it with
Joe at last seized Dad’s hands and pulled back
—pulled till he lost footing and fell down. Then
the cow backed right out of the yard, bumping
Dad heavily on the fallen rails. Dad cursed at
every bump. She proceeded backwards towards
the barn, fearah rushed on the scene, wailing’
“Oh, mv gracious!” and frightened the beast
more. Joe recovered himself, and seized Dad’s
hands again. Two small dogs, constant com-
panions of Dad’s, arrived. They barked and bit
the mr near the cow’s head—sometimes near
Dad s—and fell over one another in a struggle for
position, till at last Dave, whogot tired of shoutirg
to them, let go Dad’s leg, which he was struggli g
to release, and kicked one of them into the air.
Mother, in a state of wild alarm, appeared and
added to the uselessness of Dad’s rescuers.
Dad lost his hat; he was covered with dust and
his shirt came out and hung over his head like a
bag. He looked very undignified.
The cow went back against the dog-kennel. A
bulldog was tied there. He crouched down and
waited for her. “ Give us a pull ’er q—quick ”
Dave gasped, and Joe jumped to his side—“ Little
more—now sh—.” Just then the dog fastened his
teeth in the cow’s leg. She roared and plunged
forward and knocked Dave and Joe down and
trampled all over Dad. Then she dishonestly
raced out of the gate with only Dad’s boot under
her horn.
STEELE RUDD.
A Melbourne Chinese fourpenny restaur-
ant employs white girls, and has marble-topped
tables.
N.S.W. Govt.-yacht Victoria (which one
jealous Victorian paper alleges is verminous) must
be wondering in its haughty mind what sort of a
world it has come to. Originally the Victoria
belonged to a millionaire and kept most exclusive
company. Now it is used for the welcome of an
R.C. Bishop, fora Methodist picnic, fora Parlia-
mentary jaunt, for an Andy Kelly Labor League
festivity, in short, for any sort of a festivity the
promoters of which have a “pull.” So far, the
Government rat-catching staff hasn’t had its
annual shivoo on the Victoria, but that will come
in time.


Was Very Weak
Lost Flesh Rlapidly,
Took Quantities of Medicine, Failed all the Time.
Was Quickly Cured with
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
&
111 1111,
“Some time ago I had a very severe attack of influenza which left me
greatly weakened. I lost flesh rapidly and was in a very had way.
“I took quantities of medicine, but constantly grew worse all the time.
Finally, I tried Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and began to improve from the start.
“I took about six bottles and was perfectly cured. I have used this remedy
in my family a great deal and I know it to be a thoroughly reliable health-
giving compound and family medicine.”
John Murrell, Railway Station Master, of Sunnybank, Queensland, sends us
this letter together with his photograph, which we reproduce above.
This is a strong letter, one which must remove all doubt. It is additional
proof that Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
You ought to profit by it greatly, for if you are weak, have lost flesh, are with-
out appetite, and feel languid and depressed, here is a quick and certain cure.
Perhaps the trouble is with your blood and you are suffering from headache,
boils, eruptions of the skin, scrofula, and rheumatism; or if you are suffering
from weakness of any kind, here is a prompt and most perfect cure.
AYER’S S arsaparilla
Removes 111 Effects of Hot Weather.
AYER’S PILLS-A Vegetable Laxative for the Whole Family.
DINNEFORD’S
■Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Bilious Affections
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDSI
MAGNESIA,
MAGNESIA
R
Registered
by the
Medical
Board
of N.S.W.
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON.
HAYING had 30 years’ experience in all parts of the,
world, and also having lately made an extended trip
through Europe and America, he is in a position to
treat every case submitted to him according to the
methods of the most recent and eminent Specialists.
Every Case Treated on its own Merits.
_ Sufferers at a distance, unable to describe their cases to
their own satisfaction, should write for Dr. Watson’s
“Guide to Diagnosis B,”
POST FJtlSli, Is.,
which will enable them to give exact and full particulars, so as
to enable him to report fully as to the disease and its radical
and rational method of treatment.
Consultation Free
(Personally,
or by letter).
The publication of crowds of symptoms, testimonials and
puffs of one’s skill and attainments savours too much of self-
praise ; so the public should look with a doubtful eye upon all
those who “doth protest too much.”
Dr. Watson does not pretend to say that “ One Poimd is
sufficient to send,” as stated in certain advertisements, for he
considers that the public are quite satisfied to pay a fair price
for fair and legitimate treatment.
fdh
137
Street, Sydn
Please mention this Paper when writing:.
f'.
Hi
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
FOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Hush*
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Costiveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE 11Kb I DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be WOEi™H A
GUINEA A BOX.” , _ , * ».
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud op Health the Whole Physical Enebgt of the human frame, -these
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the beat guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’e Pills have the Largest Salt of wif Patent Medicine in
he tvorld. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is l£d, and 2s 9d each.
Story
I®
L'-. =>
LIST
OF CONTENTS.
mm
fh
At Yakbawonga ... M
His Haib .
Stbawbebby : A Love Stobt
The Patient’s Hand-Bell—
The Cobbespondenoe op A
Little Dbessmakeb
A Mabttb of No Account..
Nick Veddeb’s Gold
Pboducts
An Ekbob in Administbation
A Bbidal Pabty and a Doo
Bboken China
The Dispebsion op Mbs.
Black
White-When - He’s-Wantkd
The Tbamp ...
The Man who saw a Moa ...
Fbom the Loo of the Out-
wabd Bound
On Oub Selection ...
A Box of Dead Roses
A Stbipe fob Tboopeb Caskt
Swamp-Swallowed -
Bailifbs I Have Met ..
Thbee Cups of Tea ...
Silhouettes : My House ...
Hanging and Hell
The School at Sebgeant’s
The Bukial Sekvice op a
Musician
Selling Sobiptuke Texts..
“ Colonial Expebience”—
The Eebbyman
Babmy Babkeb’s Boots ..
The Benefit of Clebgy ..
F. 8. Dehner
Mabel Holmet
J. J. Poynton
F.M. W.G.
Maud Light
C. H. Souter
A. Conway.
A. Rose-Soley
A. C. M‘Gay
“ Omega ”
“Hoiya”
“Robin Studholme”
A. B. Paterson
Barbara Baynton
" Weka"
J. H. Greene
Arthur H. Davis
Ethel Mills
Roderic Quinn
Alex. Montgomery
Victor J. Daley
F. RoUett
“A. Chee”
Phil. Mowbray
“ Ponte”
“ McG.”
" Boiling Bitty ”
J.P.
L. De Bakker
E. S. Sorenson
Alex. Allen
Obtainable from ail Booksellers; price, 4s. 6d.; or
post-free from the Publishers.
CO
fd
The How - We-Beat-the -
Favourite Affliction ...
Gig Fours
Don’t Let the Moth Get In
The Winner of the Squat-
ters’ Cup ...
The Three Roads ...
Christmas Belle
My Mate Bill
What the Bottle Said ...
A German Lament
The Anarchist
The Fall of Patrick
Dooley
The Jester of the Damned
The Hairy Man of Koora-
watha ..
A Big “Bust”
A Tight Corner
The Road to Wyoming ...
Jim Jameson, of Tringabab
The Mallee Fire
Among the Palms ...
Dreams and Deeds
Boko
“ Dunno ! ”
The Fat Man and the War
The Shoe
The Cocky’s Handy Man ...
Bashful Glekson
Skeeia ... ...
The Currency Lass
The Confidential Jockey
How We Won the Ribbon
A Twisted Idyl
The Tugs of Simpsonville
The Sick Cab-Rider
Tambaroora
Father Riley’s Horse
O’Toole and M'Sharry ...
Faces in the Street
The Bush Missionary ...
The Last Bullet ... _
The Honeymoon Train ...
The Murder-Night... ...
A Scotch Night
M. M. O'Donnell
“ McG.”
T. A. Wilson
Fr ank Bellman
Victor J. Daley
“ John Oarew ”
G. H. Gibson
E. J. Brady
“ Bendee ”
Arthur 27. Adams
E. J. Dempsey
J. H. Greene
“ Tom Freeman "
Edward Dyson
C. H. Sovier
Evelyn Threlfall
“Fan”
C. 27. Souter
“ Hesketh ”
E. J. Dempsey
“Curlew ”
Bernard Espinasse
“ Magnet ”
J. M. L.
“ Ben Sun”
Edward Dyson
Baroroft Boake
Roderic Quirrn
Francis Kenna
Will 27. Ogilvie
Frank Morton
W. T. Goodge
Edmund Fisher
“Bendee”
A. B. Paterson
Thomas E. Spencer
Henry Lawson
W. T. Goodge
John Farrell
A. G. Stephens
Hugh M‘Crae
WiU H. Ogilvie
Obtainable from all Booksellers, price 55.; or post-free
from the Publishers.
The BCilletii) Newspaper Co. Ltd.,
214 George st., Sydney, Australia.


Asbestos Boiler Covering
. . . Saves 25 Per Cent, in Fuel . . .
PACKED WET, Ready for Use, in 3cwt. Casks, 7/-, 8/-, 9/- cwt.
PACKED DRY, in Bags, each lewt., 12/-, 14/-; 16/- cwt.
Estimates given for Covering Boilers and
Steam Pipes.
OUR ASBESTOS BOILER COVER
Saves 25 per cent, in Fuel*
PERDRIAU and COMPANY,
Telephonies —268-270 Ceorge Street, Sydney
SIMPSON BROTHERS
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
m
f#:
it
fNO J.O
Mi?;
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
For all Services kept in Stock.
S oxi.c3L for Catalogue.
,
;
SPOONS
& FORKS
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
m.:
I
TEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W_ o. lEIjDIE&IIDGKK! & CO.,
DYERS & GLEANERS,
40 YORK: STREET, SYDNEY
(opp. Centenary Hall).
CMry O’*™'*»*■!”*-I °* “**•
J. & J. MAXFIELD,
Pbopbb,, SHEFFIELD)
AT the show-booms,
Empire Chambers, 93 York St,.
SYDNEY.
Also tl
•* THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
S. FREEMAN * SONS |_!ilg=E
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES!
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN'S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE: WYE YARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
ALL WHO DESIRE-TO HAVE
SOFT YELYETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
BY USINC
0
-0>
p
COOL AND
REFRESHED
(N
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
an, Chaps, Irritation, &c.'
BOTTLES, 6d., 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers— M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Felton, Grimwadb & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
Write for Prices and Particulars of
ji-v.
■M
.. M
m
Knowles Steam Pumps
Best Value. Highest Efficiency.
A Large Stock of Pumps suitable for every
kind of service ready for immediate delivery.
60 Clarence-st., Sydney, and
533 Collins-st., Melbourne.
“KKTOWXiES,”
CO LTD
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and-convenience at—
MRS. TOBIHS,
Queen’s Mansions) 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
mHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
•*- Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
J-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
H. P. SRE6OR9 S CO.
General Machinery Merchants,
Sydney & Melbourne.
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
BLAKE STEAM PUMP.
Best Pump in the Market for
Boiler-Feeding. Irrigating:,
Mining,
Fire and Marine Purposes.
SINGLE AND DUPLEX.
ALL SIZES, up to 50,000 gallons, Imp.,
per hour, in Stock.
£TSend for Particulars and Prices.
the most nutritious.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
THE ONLY WAY
TO BE CURED of Weakening and Debilitating Diseases
is to obtain the PROPER REMEDIES. We have the
REMEDY that will CURE YOU. So CONFIDENT are
we of this, that we will send a trial course FREE OF
CHARGE and abide by the result. Send your symptoms
and prove our statement. Address — Botanic Institute,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
>
A POLICY FOR TH6
COMMONWEALTH.
Price, 6d.; posted, 8d
The |||ica [ubricant Co., South Shields, Eng.
r iihripants and Packings tor all purposes. Patent Mica Grease saves 90% in cost of lubrication, and keeps
bearings perfectly coolf 3 Paten sa Packings last twice as long as ordinary, and are 25% lighter. They do
not score the rods, but put a mica surface on them, similar in appearance to electro-plate.
Sole Agent for Australasia: R. A. HERVEY. Dep6t, 171 Clarence-st. , Sydney, N.S. W
DON’T SHOUT.
I hear you. I can hear now as well as anybody.
How ? Oh, something new; I have been using a pail
of Electricons.
They are entirely different to any other device.
Mr. W. R. Russell, 181 Brougham-street, Sydney, says:
“ A great number have noticed the improvement in my
hearing, and I may say that I hear plainer now than I
have for years. I have had better success with the
Electricons than any other of the many things I have
tried. The noises in the head have not troubled me since
wearing the appliances, and I have much to be thankful
to you for.”
Our Booklet, all about the ELECTRICONS for the cure
of DEAFNESS and HEAD NOISES, sent free, sealed.
Address—
I*, fl. VBRKTO3NT CO.,
60-64 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation, i;i Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
