

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
Reid’s London Draught Stout.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
"The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
R. G. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney.
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ AMD GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW anp SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
McLAREN’S Compound
Traction Steam Engine. '
.
Rock Drills
Little Giant
Slogger
dfgfdg
SOLE AGENTS t
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd.,
71 Clarence-st., Sydney,
Melbourne,
Wellington, N.Z.
A Policy for the
Being ft reprint of a large number of articles from
tH* Bulletin, in which this paper has attempted to
ratline a solvent, honest and democratic policy
for Federated Australia.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° 85 m street, SYDNEY.
Bole Agents for J. & H. MoLAREN, Leeds, England, Makers of Bteam Ploughing Tackle, Traction Engines for Haulage, General and Special Work.
We Stock and have to arrive McLaren’s Compound Traction Engines; RUSTON’S Portable Horizontal and Vertical Steam Engines;
BROADBENT’S Hydro Extractors; KIRCHNER’S Saw Mill and Wood-Working Machinery.
COMPOUND TRACTION STEAM ENGINES.
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831. WHISKY.
HELIDON SPA.
A PERFECT TABLE WATER.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd., iLgeixts, Sydney.
A'A*
UOBAHT.
"
Radley’s Orient [jote!.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.
CITY HOTEL
(First Grade).
J. A. TURNER - - Proprietor.
A vMh
Dr. J. W. GIBBS’
. . Electric Massage Boilers . .
For use on Face and Body.
For NERVOUS HEADABHIS,
NEURALGIA and RHEUMATISM
—a speerfte. Removes Wrinkle*.
Gold, 21 h Silver, 16/-
Post Free. Pamphlets Free.
AMERICAN ACENCY COMPANY,
Box 440, G.P.0.,
Melbourne.
9
Gold Medal Paris, against the World
No. 1 Claret
No. 1 Burgundy
Invalid Port
No. 0 Claret
Old Tawny Port
Frontignac
Hock >r
Chfib'Js
Muscadine
Golden Sherry
WINES
Nature’s Restorative.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
exclusively by the Govt*, of N.B. Walcc, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
PRICES PER FOOT OF SINGLE AND DOUBLE
BELTING :
« * ti 4 t • « » W inch.
-ft -flo} 1/- 1/* V IAI M */* *h
vt 1/4 1/7 IAO 2/2 Ell 2/s 4/S S/7 S/S
Agents in every Slate.
Made by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-stre«t, SYDNEY.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG, X
Wonderful Talue—a Packet of Eight Different Article*,
comprising Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Oasket (a good
trick), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing overlOOCom
and Card Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard
Fish (gives definition of your character), That Wonderful
Cinematograph or Book of Laving Pictures, Mafeking
drub (or nerve-strengthener), That side-splitting Look
and Laugh Glass, and, last of all, The Magic Mirror, or
Wonderful Breathing Glass. Instructions enclosed.
This splendid Packet posted to aay address in Aus-
tralia Free on receipt of 2s. fid.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
__ 710 Georg e-street, SYDNEY.
X H. L. HUTCHINSON. Manager.
0
1 hose
suffering
from weak
and sore eyes,
and blight, should
SINGLETON’S OINTMENT
Never Fails. Restores Eyelashes
ALU CHEMISTS.
CAPILLA
HAIR
TONIC
SITUATED.
a i
OTARD-DUPUY
Estbd. 1795. 25 Years BRANDY.
PROOF
USE
1? * Ift RIIRH ST.
Office ;
10 BLICH ST., SYDNEY
Joshua’s BOOMERANG BRANDY
'■ v ' ~~=
AMONG THE MANY TESTIMONIALS RECEIVED FROM AUSTRALIAN HOSPITALS
IS THE FOLLOWING :
“Our patients Have greatly benefitted by the use of Joshua Bros.’ Brandy.
It is a very nourishing and Beneficial Stimulant. It gives me great pleasure
to recommend it.”
This is from the Resident Medical Officer of one of the leading Hospitals in Western Australia.
The Hair Restorer of the Gentuiy.
All Chemists and Storekeepers, 2/8 per bottle, or by post
from W. RICHARDS, Proprietor, 188 Pitt-sfc, Sydney
N.S.W., 3/2. Obtainable in Melbourne at Q. Swirr’s,
Chemist, Collins-st. ; Victorian price, 8/-. Full Course
17/2; Inter-State, 10/2.
XTSJES
V
§k4
■iS'i
SPOONERS
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) Od. and la
BLACK OIL
The Best Pressing ter
HARNESS LEATHER fie
bottle), le.
Also Mannfaetarere of
Unrfeafted EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Ebb., Ere.
Sold by all Storekeeper*,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, He.
fdg
Price lid.;
Posted, Bd.
COMMONWCALTH.
The Bulletin
Vol. 23.—N0. 1155 ]
[Saturday, April 5, 1902.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE LATEST BOOKS AT —»
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Groker (8.M.), The Cat’s Paw, 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Roosevelt, The Strenuous Life, 6s, p. 6d.
Ridd, Western Civilisation, 18s, p. Is.
Graham, Great God Success, 4s, p'. 6d.
Westcott (E.N.), The Teller : A Story, 4s, postage 4d.
Kenealy, Richard Herrick, Cs, p. 6d.
Phillips {'Stephen), Ulysses, 6s 6d, p. 4d.
Moore, Commonwealth of Austi raJlia, 20s, p. Is fid.
Write to us for any Book or Magazine you want.
We are always pleased to answer Enquiries.
ft CABTLEREAQH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South or Khig St.) & at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane & London
For tli© LHWG-S, tli© THTROA.X, the
VOICE
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs ! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza
*.nd the Prevention
of Consumption.
'
v>.
» rS
A. The Larynx, or organ of
voice.
R The Trachea or windpipe.
C- Tin* Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lu n*r.
D. A lobe of‘one of the lun&s.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG,
and
Invaluable lb
SINGE Eg
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered), 1
. . Contain NO cocaine or other poisonon.s dru( / °
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, in Tins, 1s 6d; from the Proprietor, G. HUDSO.'
free on receipt of stamps. Sydney Depot: 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE,
Melbourne, Agents.
Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland —post
and 'FELTOA, GiiI.MWADE & CO.,
THE RED PAGE.
Hard to connect the rollicking, reckless
Harry Harbord Morarit —scapegrace son
of an English Vice-Admiral; friend of
fair ladies; the man who followed the
hounds with Sydney Hunt Club, and followed
Warrego cattle with Paddy Magee; “The
Breaker ” who rhymed and rode, loved and
jested, from the Gulf to South Head light
bard to connect him with a dishonoured grave
already fast levelling on the African veldt.
But who shall read another’s page of
Destiny, or his own ? But a few months ago it
seiems since Morant was in Sydney—his hard,
tanned, determined, jovial scamp’s phiz, aglow
with high spirits; his strong, capable hands eager
for a friendly grip; and his husky, cheery voice
tuned to the irresistible invitation. Only a little
paore battered, more worn with ten years of roving
and rioting; with only a very little of shiftiness in
his frank eyes to mark desperate straits navigated
by this accomplished good-for-naught—the-sorrow
6f his family, the solace and menace of his friends.
But he was close to perilous forty ; and felt it.
He was losing his nerve, and needed a peg or two
to screw him up for a stiff mount. He was no
longer (in his soberer moments) the devil-may-
eare horseman who, despairing of finding a gate in
a big Barwon paddock, blindfolded bis. mare and
put her at the wires, getting half through, and the
rest over. So he would compromise with Fortune
and try to placate the Vice-Admiral imaged sitting
stiff and unrelenting in his arm-chair at the
United Service Club. He had written many
verses—-some atonement, surely ; some earnest of
Merit; some proof that here and there a
wild oat had grown fruitful. Would The
Bulletin buy them ? “Yes.” And publish them ?
* ‘ Some day.” Morant’s face fell; at forty one has
Mttle time to lose ... '
Then came the War. That was Morant’s chance.
He had made his way to Adelaide, with some idea
that it was nearer to England, nearer to the bourne
that the prodigal son longed for. And the War!
—it offered him the chance to go home with glory,
with military honours that he had fought for (how
he would fight for them !) with a record of some-
thing attempted, something done, and that some-
thing the thing above all others to gladden
the heart of the old man who sat, stiff and stern,
with the Bunn ah medal and the Baltic medal on
his breast, in his chair at the United Service Club.
Morant ’listed with a South Australian contin-
fmt, and' went forth to battle—not for the
mpire, but for the-old home, the son’s right, the
fireside place, and for the acknowledgment of his
redemption from the swine. Little he cared
Whom he fought against: he fought for his
©wn hand. And at first he quitted himself
like a man—like the beast-man, maybe, in the
bad cause ; but valiantly, according to his light.
When his contingent returned to Australia, he
remained : he had not yet wiped out the stain of
the past. He won his step, and was dubbed
Lieutenant in a troop of irregular horse—collect-
ing the wilder and more vehement daredevils into
a reckless band of (as it appears) gentlemen rankers
little better than bravos or banditti. With others,
as the slowly-filtered tale declares, he was con-
eerned in the callous or revengeful shooting of
surrendered Boers, in cold blood; and, with
another, Ire himself was shot, a dread example, by
order of a military court. His friends can
imagine his thoughts far ranging as he stood, with
all lost and honour, facing the muzzles of the firing-
party—gay (who doubts it?) and defiant to the
last. . . .
No rehabilitation, no salvation ; but the death
the condemned following the life of the banned
. . . and that news to oome home to the old
father, sitting stem and grey as he scans the
despatches, hoping (as what father would not
hope?) for some excuse for condonation, some
valid plea for pardon, . .
An ill death : in the conventional, sense a
wasted life : yet and for all and in spite of all,
those who knew him will hold Harry Morant in
tender memory. Black Sheep, he earned his
adverse fate ; but (the Black Sheep’s paradox) he
never, he never deserved it. /
■ 'b V '
A. B. Walkley prattles pleasantly of lenders
and borrowers-
Jean Grolier, you remember of course, was the great
book-collector and amateur of fine bindings, who
inscribed on all his books, “ 10. Grolierii et Amicorum ”
—this is the book of J. Grolier and his friends. Other
authorities say the inscription was: “Sabi eb Amicis ” ;
but it comes to the same thing. This charming plan of
giving all your friends part-ownership of your books
saves you from the nuisance of being a lender and them
from the humiliation of being borrowers. There is a
subtle distinction between the two cases—illustrated by
the gentleman who said : “ I did n’t borrow the book, it
was lent to me.” Another, more practical but less
angasjiner, way of saving humiliation Co both parties is
never to lend books. This was the way of Pixerecourt,
the French melodramatist and (like an English nielo-
dramatist, the late Mr. Henry Herman) book-lover, who
inscribed over his library door : “ Go to them that sell,
and buy for yourselves.”
Mr. Lang (from whom I have cribbed my anecdote
about Pixerecourt) quotes a couplet of Charles Nodier
“Tel est le triste sort de tout livre pr6t6,
Souvent il est perdu, toujours il est gat6.”
But the “ toujours ”is an exaggeration. We have it,
on “ Elia’s” authority, that Coleridge returned borrowed
books all the more valuable for the borrowing—just as,
years afterwards, Thoreau boasted that he returned a
borrowed axe sharper than when he received it.
“ Reader,” says “ Elia,” “ if haply thou art blest with a
moderate collection, be shy of showing it; or if thy heart
o’erfloweth to lend them, lend thy books ; but let it be to
such a one as S.T.C.—he will return them (generally anti-
cipating the time appointed) with usury ; enriched with
annotations, tripling their value. I have had experience."
J*
As to love-letters: no one has more succinctly
satirised their relation to the man and to the
woman than the writer of these in N. Y. Puck of
1890—
v New Eden, June 10th, 1890.
My Angel,—l am in Paradise ! The thought of
you is a constant source of delight. I never knew
what it was to be happy before; but now the
whole world is running over with joy. Every-
thing speaks to me of you! Since we parted, I
have seen your face everywhere—in dreams, in
the sky, in the trees, in the flowers. The birds
sing your name, and the wind whispers it in the
grass. Omy darling! I have found heaven at
last, and you have led me into it. How I long to
hear your voice again, to look into your eyes, to
clasp your hand ! Believe me, there is not a
moment of the day when your image is'not in my
thoughts. How shall I manage to exist until we
meet again ? Do you think of me always, love, as
I think of you ? I know you do ! And now fare-
well for a few hours. A thousand kisses, sweet!
Do not fail to answer all my letters promptly.
Your devoted, faithful lover,
Clarence,
New Eden, June 12th, 1890.
Sweetest, —I have just received your letter —the
very breath of your presence in it, the delicate
perfume of violets ! How good of you to write so
promptly ! I dreamed of you all last night, and
lam dreaming of you now. The fellows laugh at
me for my absent-mindedness. What do I care !
I have something better to think of than
logarithms and G-reek roots. But I must study
some, I suppose, or our secret will be suspected.
So, good-bye for now. I enclose a leaf from the
inmost, heart of a rose. Kiss it for me, as I have
kissed it for you !
Forever, your t
Clarence.
New Eden, June 15th, 1890.
Darling,—You are too unkind. I know that I
have missed a day ; but examinations are close at
hand, and those two weeks, while we were finding
our heaven, have made such a gap in my work !
You say that I love you less than hay “nasty old
books.” • That is just like a girl! Why can’t your
sex have a little common-sense? But there goes
the bell—confound it!
Hastily,
Clarence.
New Eden, June 20th, 1890.
My Dear Jessie, —Why can’t you keep your
temper? I have not been lecturing you, and I
have not neglected you. One charge refutes the
other. I simply asked you to have a little charit-
able common-sense, in view of the hard work that
is crowding on me just now. Of course, lam just
as fond of you as ever I was; but I can’t write
love-letters and grind mathematics at the same
time, and no reasonable girl would expect it. You
know that I love you. Why should vou insist
upon my repeating it every single day ? ’
Lovingly,
Clarence.
New Eden, June 25th,. 1890.
My Dear Miss Northcote, —I am sorry you feel
as you do. I thought you truly loved me. Love
is always willing to makesaeriliCMM love is always
readjr to make allowances. Besides, a man can
not give up his whole time to sentiment.’ It is
different with women. This is a fact which you
do not seem to have taken into consideration at
all. I shall have more time after the present
week, and will write you at length my views upon
this subject. Then, perhaps you can consistently
claim that I am lecturing you !
Ever sincerely,
Clarence.
New' Eden, June 27th, 1890.
Miss Northcote.—Dear Madam,—l beg to ac-
knowledge receipt by express of the package con-
taining ring, letters, photograph, etc. 1 return,
also by express, like articles of yours in my
possession. Kindly acknowledge upon delivery,
and oblige,
Yours respectfully,
Clarence Murchison.
A note from “Adam Paul”:
Have been matching colours on the piano. Gis blue
—navy blue in bass ; sky-blue in treble. Cis pink. A
is colourless. A child laughed outside. I was annoyed :
yellow always grates on me. Most voices are colourless.
I think it is association. Read Othello. You hear no
voice, but see how red his anger is! Grey is the sad
oolour. Quinn talks grey in “The Frontier-land.” Two
of my friends hear colours, but they don’t agree. Gon
the piano is red to one, and blue to the other ; my pink C
is green to one. Some far-away memory connected sight
and sound. Yet which of us can explain when or why ?
Other of myfriends (dull, stodgy people) scoff, though
to all of them grey suggested sadness. Curiously, sad-
ness had not suggested grey to them.
Sydney Past and Present, by J. A. Barry
(published by A. C. Rowlandson) is really
a very attractive collection of memoranda
and pictures relating to the Harbour City’s
past. At only Is., nobody interested in
Australiana can afford to miss the purchase.
But the printing and covering, the margins and
inking, pain the eye ! No taste ! no taste !' Here
(for comparison) is a Xmas number of the Toronto
Globe (Canada)—admirably printed, with illus-
trations fitted to the pages, and each page studied
to its best. Toronto has not a quarter-million
people ; Sydney approaches the half-million ; yet
Sydney cannot print like Toronto. When will
Australia grow mechanics with brains ?
SHORT SHRIFT
I cam mind him at the start —-
Easy seat and merry heart t
Said he, as he threw a glance
M the crawling ambulance :
“ Same day I’ll be on the ground
And the van will hurry round !
Dee. will gravely wag his head:
* Ifo use now! the poor chap ’$ dead
Every man must, soon or late,
Turn up at the Golden Gate:
When we weigh in—you and I
Sow can horsemen better die l ”
* * * *
On that sunlit steeple course
He lay prone beneath his horse,
Never more his pal may ride
By that gallant horseman’s side.
“ Reckless fool ? ” What matter, mate f
All his time he’d ridden straight —
Went (smashed ’gainst that wall of sod /)
Spurred and booted to his God.
Carve in stone above his head
Words that some old Christian said :«
“ Grace he sought, and grace he found,
’Twixt the saddle and the ground !”
THE BREAKER.
Verses by Harry Morant (“The Breaker.”)
WHO’S RIDING OLD HARLEQUIN NOWS
They are mustering cattle on Brigalow Vale,
Where the stock-horses whinny and stamp ;
And where long Andy Ferguson, you may go bail,
Is yet boss on a ©utting-out camp :
Half the duffers I meet would not know a fat steer
From a blessed old Alderney cow ;
Whilst they’re mustering there I am wondering here—
Who is riding brown Harlequin now ?
Are the pikers as wild, and the scrubs just as dense
In the brigalow country as when
There was never a homestead and never a fence
Between Brigalow Vale and The Glen ?
Do they yard the big “micks” ’neath the light of the
moon ?
Do the yard wings re-echo the row
Of stockwhips and hoof-beats ? And what sort of coon
Is there riding old Harlequin now?
There was buck jumping blood in the brown gelding’s
veins,
But, lean-headed, with iron-like pins,
Of Pyrrhus and Panic he’d plentiful strains—
All their virtues, and some of their sins.
*Twas pity, some said, that so shapely a colt
Fate should with such temper endow—
He would kick and would strike, he would buck and
would bolt—
Ah ! who’s riding brown Harlequin now ?
A demon to handle ! a devil to ride !
Small wonder the surcingle burst :
You’d have thought that he’d buck himself out of his hide
On the morning we saddled him first.
I can mind how he cow-kicked the spur on ray boot,
And though that’s long ago, still I vow
If they ’re wheeling a piker—no new-chum galoot
Is a-riding old Harlequin now I
I remember the boss--how he chuckled and laughed
When they yarded the brown colt for me :
“ He ’ll be steady enough when we finish the graft
And have cleaned up the scrubs of Glen Leigh ! ”
I am wond’ring to-dav if the brown horse yet live,
For the fellow who broke him, I trow,
A long lease of soul-ease would willingly give
To be riding brown Harlequin now !
“ Do you think you can hold him ? ” old Ferguson said—
He was mounted on Hornet, the gray ;
I think Harlequin heard him—he shook his lean head,
And he needed no holding that day.
Not a priekfrom a spur, nor a sting from a whip,
As he raced among deadwood and bough ;
While I sat fairly quiet and just let him rip—
But who’s riding old Harlequin now ?
I could hear ’em a-crashing the gidgee in front
As the Bryan colt streaked to the lead,
Whilst the boss and the niggers were out of the hunt,
For their horses lacked Harlequin’s speed ;
The pikers were yarded and skies growing dim
When old Fergie was fain to allow
“ The colt’s track through the scrub was a knocker” to
him—
But who’s riding brown Harlequin now ?
From starlight to starlight—all day in between,
The foam-flakes might fly from his bit;
But whatever the pace of the day’s work had been
The brown gelding was eager and fit.
On the pack-horse’s back they are fixing a load
Where the path climbs the hill’s gloomy brow ;
They are mustering bullocks to send on the road,
But—who’s riding old Harlequin now?
IN SUCH A NIGHT
A flood of moonlight from the sky,
Where far stars faintly twinkle ;
And, softened by the night-wind’s sigh
Is heard the horse-beli’s tinkle.
Above—the drooping myall leaf ;
Below—the fire-log glowing ;
And stately pines in swart relief
Against the light sky showing.
The niassy bloodwoods sway and shake,
The moon-steeped box-leaves glisten ;
And e’en the wild hawk’s nestlings-wake
In wonderment to listen.
To lullabies (more tuneful far
Than any song of Morning !)
That night-winds sigh when moon and star
The heavens are adorning.
Young hearts may know a music rare
When Springtide dawns are breaking,
Whilst houghs are dew-gemmed everywhere
And wangon birds are waking.'
But dusky Night !-—when hopes lie dead
And summer dreams have faded,
When darkened are those lights which led
Ere following steps grew jaded :
Her.melodies the power possess;
When days drag lone and dreary, '
To lull the heart’s own bitterness"
And soothe a soul world-weary.
MUCH-A LITTLE WHILE
Love me little, love me long”—
Laggard lover penned such song :
Rather, Nell I—in other style—
Love me much, a little while !
If that minstrel ever knew
Maid so kissable as you
(Like .you there was never such) —
He’d have written, “ Love me muchl”.
Other loves have passed away :
Springtimes never last ahvay !.
’T will be better,-will it not,
To think that once we loved “ a lob ” ?
AT LAST
When I am tired, and old, and worn,
And harass’d by regret;
When blame, reproach, and worldlings’ scorn
On every side are met;
When I have lived long years in vain
And found Life’s garlands rue,
Maybe that I ’ll come back again—
At last—at last —to you !
When all the joys and all the zest
Of youthful years have fled,
Maybe that I shall leave the rest
And turn to you instead ;
For you, Dear Heart, would never spurn
(With condemnation due !)
If, at the close of all, I turn
Homeward —at last —to you !
When other faces turn away,
And lighter loves have passed ;
When life is weary, cold, and gray—
I may come back—at last!
When cares, remorse, regrets are rife—
Too late to live anew—
In the sad twilight of my life
I will come back—to you !
SINCE THE COUNTRY CARRIED SHEEP
We trucked the oows to Homebush, saw the girls, and
started back,
Went west, through G’umiamulla, and got on the Eulo
track,
Camped awhile at Goorybibil—but Lord 1 you would n’t
know
It for the plaoe where you and Mick were stockmen l«np
ago! *
Young Merino bought the station, fenced the run and
built a shed,
Sa ° instead toCkmen ’ 80ld the cattle - and P u t on sheep
But he wusn t built for . ueensland, and every blooming
One hears of labour troubles when Merino starts to
shear.
There are ructions with the rouseabouts, and shearers
strike galore :
The like was never heard of in the cattle days of yore ;
Whilst slowly round small paddocks now the sleeping
lizards creep—
And Goorybibii’s beggared since the country carried
sheep !
I^e 3’, v ’ e built bush yards on Wild Horse Creek, where ia
the morning’s hush
e ,’ ve sa t silent in the saddle, and listened for the rush
Of the cleanskins—when we heard ’em it was “ wheel ’em
if you can,”
While gidgee, pine, and mulga tried the nerve of horse
and man!
The boys were after horses ere the starlight waned
away—
The billy would he boiling by the breaking of the day ;
Whilst our horses—by “ Protection ” —were all in decent
nick,
When we rode up the ’Bidgee where the cleanskins mus-
tered thick.
The “ mickies ” that we’ve branded there ! the colts we
had to ride !
In Goorybibii’s palmy days, before the old boss died ;
Could Yorkie Hawkins see his run, I guess his heart
would weep—
For Goorybibii’s beggared—since the country carried
sheep !
From sunrise unto sunset through the summer days we’d
ride—
And stockyard rails were up and pegged with cattle safe
inside,
When ’twixt the gloaming and the dark we'd hear the
welcome note
Of boist’rous pealing laughter from the kookaburra's
throat.
Camped out beneath the starlit skies—the treetops over-
head,
A saddle for a pillow and a blanket for a bed, ’
’T was pleasant, mate, to listen to the soughing of the
breeze
And learn the lilting lullabies that stirred the mulga
trees.
Our sleep was sound in those days, tor the mustering
days were hard—
The morrow’s might be harder, with the brandings in the
yard !
But did you see the station now—the men ! and mokes !
they keep—
You'd own the place was beggared—since the country
Carried sheep !
SOME OTHER SOMEBODY
Somebody’s horse has finished his feed.
Somebody’s saddle is on ;
But never a nigger the tracks can read,
Or know where Somebody’s gone.
Over the rails and up the creek,
As soon as the sun goes down :
How is it every night this week
That Somebody’s, off to town ?
Grass is dewy, and overhead
Evening stars are bright;
And startled wallabies hear the tread
■Of galloping hoofs at night.
. .jiff”
Through the scrub and over the pish-
Somebody’s galloping fast j 1
Never a pull on the bridle rein
Till the town lights show at last., :
Somebody’s horse has whips o’ work—
Whips o’work of
Since Somebody’s brown was seen in town
Tied to Somebody’s gate.
But the wherefore why Somebody rides,
And the track that the brown horse goer,
Only his rider (and one besides i
Some other Somebody) knows !
REQUIESCAT[?]
Dying ! in the sheltering shade
By the myall branches made,—
While the horse-bells clanged and tinkled far away across
the plain ; _
The wan stars above were blinking
As old Pat Magee lay thinking
Of the places and the faces he would never see again.
That long trip his life was over
And the. grizzled, gaunt old drover,
“ Gives delivery ; ” hands his way-bill to his Owner- up
above :
Whether now a heaven or hell come
Pat will find old mates to welcome —
Saints a few and sinners many ’mong the ones he nsec'/ to
love.
Lived his years, some five and fifty,
Neither over-wise nor thrifty !
Many times he went a bender from the sober ways and
strait ;
But man found, in times of trouble,
That Pat’s friendship was no bubble,
And he never wronged a woman nor “ went back ” upon
a mate!
And the Boss Of all the bosses
May be lenient to the losses
On the track that Paddy travelled there were bound to be
a few ;
And p’r’aps He who,pays the wages
Knows how weary were some stages,
And there’ll be a big percentage p’r’aps allowed on
coming through !
So we dug upon the ’Bidgee,
Fenced it round with stakes of gidgee,
Paddy’s grave ! for burial service Jack just whispered:
“ Rest his soul! ”
Then next morning, heavy-hearted,
Got the nags up and departed ;
Did what Pat had ne’er done : left his comrade in a k»ie!


M c DOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP
THE ORIGINAL NON-POISONOUS DIP.
M c DOTJG-A.X«Xj BROS., O Spring St reset, Sydney.
AGENTS:
N.Z. L. & M.A. Co., Ltd., Australia and Hew Zealand : Strachan, Cheedle & Co., Adelaide : <l. B. Curran, Hobart.
SKINS
Kangaroo,
Wallaby,
Rabbit,
Opossum.
Send to
WINGHGOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
SYDNEY,
and so obtain utmost possible prices.
Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.
Wool and Produce Brokers.
Consolidated Charge"!
for Selling Wool J
2s Per Cent
/.Includes all Charges excepting
/cartage from steamer’s wharf.
Fat Stock Salesmen, Stock & Station Agents-
SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd-,
Circular Quay, Sydney.
Undeniable Fig'll res prove that our PERFECT and UP-TO-DATE
system of handling Wool meets with full appreciation from Woolgrowers.
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT&CO. Ltd.
■—^w— savr>l\T'Fi'y .umrnamwnm^m
During the Season 1901-2 we offered at auction 63,343 bal3s, and sold
at auction and privately ex Catalogue 56,202 bales, thus firmly
establishing ourselves as the LEADING Wool Selling Brokers of Sydney on
account of COUNTRY CONSIGNORS.
We invite inspection of our popular TRUST A/c System and of the figures given above.
N.B.—Our Figures do NOT include private Sales of Uncatalogued Wool. George Maiden, Manager.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK; Price, 4s. 6d
HAVE THE
BEST.
fd
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE FENCE
Is built by a light, handy machine, easily operate!, which will weave
THREE CHAINS OF FENCE AN HOUR.
The Lateral Wires are two-ply cable of best Gal. Steel Wire intersected by Crimped Sted Piokets
securely interwoven at any desired distance apart, forming a perfect Web Fence which will hold
securely all kinds of Stock.
FOR CATALOGUES AND PARTICULARS
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE FENCE CO.,
128 Franklin St., Melbourne ; 143 Sussex St., Sydney.
For Information Leading to the Conviction of Offenders.
PUBLIC NOTICE !
WHEREAS it has been ascertained that certain unscrupulous persons, aware
of the unprecedented success which has resulted from the placing on the market the
now Celebrated “Can’t B Beat” Shilling Pipes, Branded Thus :
are selling certain Pipes to the Public as such, but which are infinitely
GBB
inferior, and are NOT the Genuine C. 8.8. Pipes, as supplied to the Trade and to
the Public at the various Establishments of Mick Simmons.
Notice is hereby given that as ignorance cannot in the future be accepted as an
excuse, all persons infringing our Rights as Proprietors of the above Brand, which
is an abbreviation of our well-known Trade Mark, “Can’t B Beat,” will be
prosecuted under the Trade Marks Act, and be Proceeded Against in Equity for an
Injunction.
gfd
Trade Mark registered in Australasia and
New Zealand.
The Public arc requested to see that the above Brand is stamped upon every Pipe
purchased, and they are particularly Cautioned against deception in this respect.
The Public are -further requested to at once make known to the undersigned any
attempt to pass off either unbranded Pipes or Pipes with any Brand other than the
above, for C B B.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMONT.
3 ole Cliargo : 3 Per Cent, -fco the GJ-rowers
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge yi. per lb. to the Buyers.
A LETTER FROM A MINING ENGINEER.
Gentlemen, —
Ontario,” Nicholson Street,
Burwood, N.S.W.,
March 8, 1900.
“On the Ist Sept., 1898, I became over-heated,
then suddenly exposed to a piercing cold wind, I
caught a chill, the result being that I was deprived
of robust health, and for about Beven months my
life was despaired of. During this time I had been
through the hands of eight medical men in private
and public hospitals. The majority of them held
out no hope, some of them declaring that I had
kidney, liver, heart and lung troubles. In the last
Hospital, ray medical attendant said I had Bright’s
Disease of the kidneys, that he could do nothing
for me, and that, I had better be taken home, as I
could not recover. Rather a dark prospect this,
considering that, in addition to the troubles
enumerated above, I had dropsy to a fearful extent.
I had been tapped in the lower part of the abdomen
five times, several gallons of water being drawn off,
but all to no good purpose. In a few days after
being tapped, I swelled up in my legs, abdomen,
and stomach, larger than before. The dropsy
began to makeits appearance in my hands and face.
My body swelled to that degree that I sickened to
look at myself, and many times wished I could die.
Friends who visited me sympathised and bid me,
as they believed, a last farewell. But an angel of
mercy came in the shape of Warner’s Safe Cure.
A lady friend strongly recommended me to give up
hospitals, doctors and medicines, and take only
Warner’s Safe Cure. On the 3rd April, 1899, I
began to take Warner’s Safe Cure. As soon as I
began to take this medicine my appetite began to
return. At the end of four weeks, when I had
drank four bottles of Safe Cure, the water began to
come away. I reduced in circumference around
the abdomen from 54| inches to 41i inches, and my
legs reduced in proportion. I felt like a new man.
My spirits returned. I began to get regular sleep,
still reducing in size until not a vestige of lung,
kidney, liver or dropsy trouble could be seen or
felt. lam now in the best of health, and am firmly
convinced that Warner’s Safe Cure has, in God’s
hand, been the means of restoring my lost health
and strength. I would gladly write, talk, or sing
the praises of Warner’s Safe Cure, but will con-
clude by stating that I shall be only too happy to
answer any questions, either by letter or otherwise.
I feel I owe a duty to the world at large in makyig
known the almost miraculous cure effected in my
case by Warner’s Safe Cure. I also feel a deep
debt of gratitude to the discoverer of Warner’s Safe
Cure, and trust thishumble, unsolicited testimonial
may be made public for the benefit of suffering
humanity. lam well-known all over the Australian
Colonies, and my old mining contemporaries will
rejoice to learn of my restoration to health.”
S. E. RICHARDS,
Mining Engineer.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Ltd.,
Melbourne, Vic.
WHEN YOU HAVE
READ THIS LETTER
you will see that even Bright’s Disease
of the Kidneys can be cured by taking
■ B I
AFE CUR
Warner’s Safe Cure is the only medi-
cine known to science which will CUHE
Bright’s Disease, and not only does it
cure this most fatal of kidney diseases,
but it is a remedy for
Kidney & Li?er Diseases
and for all complaints arising fropi any
disability of the kidneys and liver to
properly perform their allotted task of
extracting from the blood the urinary
and biliary poisons, which, retained in
the system, are the cause of so much
suffering.
The following complaints all arise
from the retention in the system
of urinary and biliary poisons:
Rheumatism Dyspepsia
General Debility Neuralgia
Bright’s Disease Backache
Bladder Diseases Sciatica
Blood Disorders Lumbago
Sick Headache Anaemia
Biliousness Gout
Indigestion Gravel
WARNER’S
SAFE
CURE
Cures all these by restoring the kidneys
and liver to health when the causative
poisons are removed in a natural
manner.


•a
We
want to give
you a little light
on how to Improve
your looks and save your
money at the same time.
"We want to prove to you that no
house in Melbourne can produce for the same
money anything like the
FAMOUS == -=
DRESS SUITS
that we offer /f gp% Silk lined and
for the price handsomely finished
Every man who cares for his personal appearance should
pay us a visit.
Up-to-date Cutters, First-class Hands, and Newest Material.
XV e can’t prove this to you unless you give us the chance.
The chance is ait we ask.
London Tailoring Depot
BOURKE ST. (Opp. G.P.O.J i
F. S. Meyers, Manager.
CO
H
CO
DC
o
o
b
ij
>
o
&
E-
ffi
H
Eh
<
h
H
H
b
THOMSON’S
MARK.
TRADE
‘GraGiosa’
PATENTED. REGISTERED.
The most Comfortable and Durable of Corsets.
Cannot Break at the Waist Line!
WHAT THE WEARERS SAY OF THEM—
Lady W. writes The ‘GRACIOSA’ Corset is simply perfect in shape,
adapting itself to the body in any position.’'
Lady S. writes :—“I find your ‘ GRACIOSA ’ Corset the most comfortable I have
ever worn, and a periect fit.”
Lady M writes “Your * GRACIOSA ’ Corset is the very perfection of fit, the
very thing I have been wishing for, as there is perfect freedom of movement
of the body. lam quite delighted with it.”
Lady B. writes “ Your ‘GRACIOSA’ Corset is a splendid fit, and the most
comfortable corset I have ever worn.”
P.R writes:—“ Our assistant likes the ‘ GR/ S CIOSA ’ Corset very much, and
thinks they will be a great success, and have alarge sale. We shall be very
pleased to give an order as soon as they are ready for delivery.”
W. T writes “ Your ‘ GRACIOSA ’ Corset gives great satisfaction.”
SOLD BY ALL FIRST CLAS? DRAPERS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
W. S. THOMSON & CO., Ltd., London, Manufacturers,
Makers of t e World-Renowned ‘‘Glo\e-Fitting’” Corsets.
G. F. Griffiths, Sole Agent for Australasia, Watsons Chambers, Melbourne.
12 PRIZE MEDALS.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
PLAYS
Catalogue
Free . . .
French’s Acting Edition.
fdgf
Rare Books
French Novels
Books
for
the
Married
Extra Special Catalogue of
Hooks Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE .
201 Beurke Street, Melbourne
UNDER THE ROYAL PATRONAGE OF
H.M. THE QUEEN OF GREECE,
H.R.H. PRINCESS MARIE OF GREECE.
H.R.H. THE PUKE OF SPARTA.
fdgdf
H.R.H. THE DUCHESS OF SPARTA.
H.R.H. PRINCESS HOHENLOHE.
H.R.H. PRINCE GEORGE OF GREECE.
(High Commissioner of Crete, &c., &c.)
EDWARDS’
HARLENE
FOR
THE
g
AM
c
Photo d specially for the " Harleue by Langfiei\ IToncf St, W
liaymarket Theatre, London.
Miss JULIA NEILSON
■writes —
“ / am at present trying vour ' Harl'ene' for my
hair, and t find it one of the best Hair Tonics and r
Restorers l have ever used, and / have tried many..
Will you kindly send me two more bottles." . ... , -
THE GREAT HAIR
PRODUCER and RESTORER.
THE FINEST DRESSING SPECIALLY PREPARED AND
DELICATELY PERFUMED.
A LUXURY AND A NECESSITY TO EVERY MODERN TOILET
Harlene ” Produces Luxuriant Hair, Prevent its Falling Off and Turning
Grey, Unequalled for Promoting the Growth of the Beard and Moustache.
The World Renowned Remedy for Baldness. For Preserving, Strengthening!
.and Rendering the Hair Beautifully Soft, for Removing Scurf Dandruff, &c.,
f -also for Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Colour.
Crown Prince’s Palace, Athens.
H.R.H. PRINCESS MARIE OF GREECE
writes—“ Messrs. Edwards’ Preparation, ‘Harlene’ for the Hair, has given entire
isatisfaction. H.R.H. wishes six more bottles of ‘Harlene’ sent as soon as possible.’’
Kitegyhaza, County Bikis, Hungary.
COUNTESS DENIS ALMASY
"writes—“ Please forward me three more bottles of ‘ Harlene,’ as lam particularly satisfied
with the two bottles sent me to Switzerland, and have been using it ever since.”
IFull Description and Directions for use in Twenty Languages supplied with every
JBottle. 1/-, 2/6, and (three times 2/6 size) 4/6 per Bottle, from Druggists, &c.,
all over the World.
/ V*~
Photo'd specially lor the " Harlene Co., by Langfler, Bond St., W.
Gariick Theatre, London.
Miss VIOLET VANBRUGH
wt ites —
'‘ / am very •pleased to testify to the excellent
qualities 0/ ‘ Harlene,' it is most refreshing and,
invigorating and / have found it very Stimulating
to the Growth 0/ my Hair.
" P.S.—I hope fate will never take me to any
quarter of. the globe where I should be unable
to procure ' Harlene.' ”
EDWARDS’ “ HARLENE ” Co., 95 & 96, Hish Holborn, London, W.C
“S.” : A oouple of weeks back I noticed
a smart Cockney in Swanston-street, Melb.,
selling a particularly clever child’s toy in the
shape of an automatic rat that olimbed a string and
emitted a characteristic squeak. Saw him again
yesterday ; he was looking particularly glum, and
selling india-rubber jugs—comparatively worlced-
out as a novelty. “Hello!” I said, “ sold all your
rats?” The business man spat disgustedly. “ Sold
out!” he said with scorn. “Couldn’t sell the
blessed things for a penny apiece. They’re a
drug in the market consequence o’ this ’ere
plague!”
Cablegram—
The Boer women In the Heilbron camp, Dutch pastors
who have visited such camps, and members of the late
orange Free State Government have protested against
the calumnies on the British Army,
This comes through by cable from the S’African
press censors. We don’t know that the Boer
women said it—it is 1000 to one they didn’t. If
thev did say things like that, why should there be
such anxiety about shutting out visitors so that
they, can’t personally hear the gratitude and
admiration of these women—whose children are
dying off at such a fearful rate for the army
which burned their homes ?


The fcest cough drops are drops ol
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
The next time you
take cold, dose your-
self with a lot of
home remedies and
dilly-dally along un-
til your cough is
deep-seated and you
are threatened with
pneumonia or con-
sumption. That’s
one way, to be sure.
fd
Here’s another way: Take
fryer’s
Cherry Pectoral
at bedtime and be all right the next
morning. Isn’t this the better way ?
Then continue the Cherry Pectoral a
few days until your throat and lungs
have completely healed and all danger
of future trouble is past.
Another grand thing about Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral is that it cures hard
coughs, the hardest kind of old coughs,
even after all other remedies have failed.
Put up in large and small bottles.
When it hurts your lungs to cough,
then apply one of Ayer’s Cherry Pec-
toral Plasters directly over the painful
lung. It will quiet the pain, remove all
congestion, and greatly strengthen.
Prepare* by Dr. J. C. Ayer r» .' —" AW v c A.
R
¥luw
% •//tf/ssy/s.
TINDIGESTION&
Biliousness
S N®Awk'ie^
y Infants
and Invalids.
“PRIMUS”
Kerosene gath Heater
HOT SHOWER INSTANTLY.
NO WICK. NO SMELL.
From 75a. Each.
NO PLUMBER’S WORK. FIX IT f OURSELF.
Costs Half the Price of Gas.
. . . Send for Catalogue . . .
BRANPT BROS.
236 Pitt-st., Sydney;
AND . .
422 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Publications.
TRICMCOfiy
A Studvof BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, Bv Dr.
ALFRED NEALE. Posted 7d.
SKIN DISEASES
AND THEIR TREATMENT.
Posted Is Id.
Publishers: Turner and Henderson, SYDNEY.
WRINKLES and RAPID RULES. BUSINESS MEMORY
Useful little book. Rules for rapid
calculation are excellent. Many valuable hints.”—S. E.
News. “Memory system is ingenious.”—S.M. Herald.
“ If followed out should lead on to fortune.” —S.D. Tele-
graph. Postal note, Is. J. C. COX, DARLING ST.,
BALMAIN, SYDNEY.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
Established 1849.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Beourlty of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
PrpnwtJAa, or on
Freehold and C.P. (combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per cent,
of the loan during any year without notice or paymen o anj e. RICHARD TEEOE, General Manager.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary. _
KHOUSS*.
Com mercial
Buggy,
£l4 108-
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY,
it®* Send for a
Catalogue.
r
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15*.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HIIiLIEtt, 130 Sussex-street.
w : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY,
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
WORLD
FAMED
PLAYER’S
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
I
m
WHOLESALE
Distributing Agents
New South Wales —
M. RUTTY & CO.,
SYDNEY.
Victoria —
j. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia —
Hart, Lawrence & Co.
Propy. Ld., Adelaide
Western . Australia —
Lionel Samson & Son,
Fremantle
Queensland —
Thos. Brown & Sons, Ld.
Brisbane
Burns, Philp & Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania —
Watchorn Bros.,
Hobart
John McKenzie & Co.,
Launceston
New Zealand—
D. Benjamin & Co.
Dunedin, Wellington
and Christchurch.
Zhe post Refreshing 3>rink in JTustralia.
Montserrat
l
Liroe-Frait Jaice
ai>s Cor6isls • • •
(TRADE HARK)
The MSCET
counsel the public to drink
Llme-Frult Juice whenever and
wherever they list. It Is a *ar
more wholesome drinK wan
any form of Alcohol.
“M ntserrat” Lime-Fruit Juice, either with water or aerated water, is
delightful thirst quencher.
Sole Consignees -EVANS, I/ESCHER St Jp® NDOM *
EVANS, SONS St Co., LIVERPOOL.
Agents s—Elliott Bros., Ltd., J. Connell & Co., Sydney; D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle
(i
ON OUR SLECTION,” by Steel© Rudd.
Price, 6s. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
MARTELLS
"A genuine
old Brandy
made from
Wine.”
Medical Press.
THREE STAR
"Particularly suitable
for Medicinal
Purposes.”
Ti,j Lancet.
BRANDY.
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNJS if
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description oi
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, 1.5; 2-Spring Sulkies, 437;
3-Spring Sulkies, i 7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies' Phaetons (single and double), Dog Cart 9,
anii every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send U 9 you*
address, and we will forward you our lUnscrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for 1e93
than w 6 can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 pal
cent more for your reijiiiretneata.
OUU SPECIAL NO. 2
£8 18/6
g
Delirered at any Wharf or-
X.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Seven Sisters.
By the Word of God the Father,
On His third creation morn,
By the Voice of the Eternal
Were the Seven Sisters born.
They shall stand until the Sunrise
And the Sunset be as one ;
They shall hold until the Darkness
And the Day are also done.
On their bosoms undulating,
Rocked the first, frail, bark canoe,
Where now, throbbing, palpitating,
Churns the mile-devouring screw.
And they chose men for their vassals,
By a witchcraft of their waves,
And they yield them in requital
Oft, but darkened deep-sea graves.
To and fro their lovers wander,
But their hearts aye turn again
To the surges white, that thunder
On the shores of every main.
In the night-time of the Forests—
Of the Forests far and dim—
They will hear the waters calling,
Oh, so softly calling them.
Yea, the fair, bewitching Sisters,
They, the Kind, the Ever Young,
With their tender, liquid voices,
And a plaintive Siren tongue.
They will see, in yearning visions,
White sails gleaming far away ;
And they come back, come back ever
To their old sea-loves some day.
Oh, the splendour of the story !
Oh, the pathos of the tears.!
Oh, the glamor and the glory,
Of the grand historic years !
They can boast no ruined city,
They can speak no tombs sublime ;
For they hide in queenly pity
All the wrack and waste of time.
In dead days those Regal Sisters
Saw the crowded Punic quays,
Saw the Greek and Roman galleys
Sweep triumphant through the Seas.
They who give her wealth to London —
As they gave it once to Spain—
They who keep the Vikings safely,
Till the Vikings come again;
They were wedded to the Doges,
They were flattered by high lords ;
And they hold their tithes of plunder
From a thousand plundered hoards.
They were mothers unto heroes,
And the men who loved—and slew,
In their shotted hammocks biding,
To the Sisters still are true.
They have seen the pirates’ canvas
On their dark dominions wide,
Who behold the smoke out-trailing
Of the liner in her pride.
Teak or iron ! Naught shall matter—
They are still the Sister Seas
Holding in their hearts the secret*
Of uncounted mysteries.
Oh, the Seven Restless Sisters,
Who with swift feet come and go,
From the scented, sunlit tropics
To the Lands of Ice and Snow !
Oh, the Seven laughing Sisters
That the Kings and Heroes knew f
Oh, the Seven Strong Sultanas
In their royal robes of blue !
N.S.W.
E. J. BRANDY.
A Grower of Roses.
They call me lazy, but that’s all talk ;
I work far harder than one supposes ;
And I work as hard as a man may work
At the hard, hard task of growing roses.
“ Not hard ! ” you say. Well, isn’t it hard
With all the thorns on the stalks to wound you,
With hands outstretched on either side,
And everyone crying for roses around you 1
Now, some must be white, some cloth-of-gold,
And some so rare that your toil is double ;
And if, at the end, your flowers don’t suit —
Well, no one will pay you—and that’s your
trouble.
But, worst of all, they must all be fair,
All satin-leafed and with no torn rims on,
No canker tooth at their hidden heart,
And no dark stain on their laughing crimson.
Oh, growing roses is hard, hard work,
And some have been paid with a crust and a
hovel;
And—only the scent of them sweetens one’s life—
I’d almost as soon seek for gold with a shovel.
“ Like snow be mine,” and “Be mine, bright red,”
And “Mine, dark damask,” and “Mine, rich
yellow,”—
And then, they say, “ How lazy he is,
This grower of roses, this worthless fellow ! ”
At times I turn with, a flash in the eye,
For their words hurt more than the world
supposes;
But somebody says—“ In the next street lives
A grower of very much handsomer roses.”
Then off, away, goes the fickle train,
Perchance forever —’tis sad, ’tis tragic ;
Their friend, my rival, grows roses rare
| And tricks their leaves with a sunset magic.
One day I shall say—let them alkali go,
I will grow my roses for no man’Sfpleasure,
I’ll sell none lightly—only for love,
And the rest I’ll keep for my hours of leisure.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


MONKEY
BRAND
SOAP
Makes Tin like Silver
Copper like Oold;
Brass like Mirrors;
Windows like Crystal;
Crockery like Marble.
Cleanses and polishes at one and the same time.
Does not polish the dirt in, polishes the dirt out.
Cleans and Brightens everything, but
Won’t Wash Clothes ,
N
We Stock Every Make of Watches.
Send for our Catalogue.
POST FREE.
The a 3■ A « Renowned LEVER WATCHES
EXCEPTIONAL TIMEKEEPERS, ACCURATELY ADJUSTED.
We keep them in order for three years (Breakages excepted), and guarantee
them for 25 years.
► J EWELLERS & OPTICIANS
; 90 King ST, Sydney.
<c on Ou: rSeleetion,” By “ Steele Rudd.”
try orders.
Tails. Plaits.
FRINGES, Best Natural Curly Hair, 3/6,5/6,
7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each. TAILS' and PLAITS,
20in. long-, 6/6, ; Extra Thick, 7/6 ; 24in.,
10/6; Extra Thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings Worked Up, 2/6 per oz.
Don’t be misled. Our Plaits and Tails are
twice as thick as sold elsewhere at same
price. Send Color of Hair. “ Only ONE
Address":— W. H. WIGZELL,
110 WILLIAM-ST., Corner of Palmer-xt.,
Sydney. Cable trams ivill stop at door. All
work guaranteed Illustrated catalogue
post free. Prompt attention given to coun-
Wigs made on shortest notice.
RHEUMALGIA
rphe new cure for Rheumatism, Lumbago, Gout, Sciatica,
Neuralgia, and similar ailments
IS
a lotion compounded from herbs
PURELY AUSTRALIAN.
S 3. 6d. POST FREE.
Rheumalgia Remedy Co., Bathurst,
Wholesale depot for N.S.W. and.Q.
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
For
Uniform
Quality
Absolute
Purity
Excellent
Flavor
Hennessy’s
Brandy
Stands Alone.
THE ““
OLD BATTLE AXE BRAND.
m-
a
•a
Va
70
ssth-.-. ' />v- *
V)*
dfg
"WOULD NOT BURN ”
We are often asked if Ruberoid will burn readily.
Here’s your answer in three words—“ Would not
burn.” Don’t think for a moment, however, that
it’s fireproof. That’s not so, but it won’t burn
readily ; not as readily as wood, for instance, and
it’s insured by the Fire Underwriters’ Association
at 1/- % more than they ask for a slate roof.
Three-Quarters
of the business in P & B RUBEROID is due to
favorable reports from users who are pleased.
We have agents in every State, who’ll give you fullest, particulars if you’ll write for
The Oaks, Mona Vale,
via Manly.
“I had fire in the ballroom, and I reckon that
the Ruberoid saved the buttling, as the Ruberoid
only spluttered and would not burn, and the roof
being flat gave us a chance to attack Are. Please
send above order at once and oblige,
Yours,
GEO. S. BROCK.
CATALOGUE B
Here’s the List—
Agents
for
{Wellington, N.Z.
Brisbane, Q....
Adelaide, S.A.
Melbourne, Y.
Fremantle, W.A,
Mr. James W. Jack.
Messrs. E. Rich & Co., Ltd.
~ A. W. Sand ford & Co.
~ Brooks, Robinson & Co., Ltd.
~ J. M. Ferguson, Ltd.
General
Agents—
E. RICH & CO., LTD.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
BRISBANE, Q.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vo L. 23. No. 1155.
SATURDAY, APRIL 5, 1902.
Price 6d,
THAT FEDERAL DIVORCE-BILL.
THE LAW: “HERE, GIMME THE KEY SHARP, AND LET HIM OUT BEFORE SHE MURDERS HIM!”
THE CHURCH : “NO, I CANNOT CONSENT TO DEPRECIATE THE SACREDNESS OF MARRIAGE!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the A ustralians. ,>
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... , ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
IVestralia. anti TtTaoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland), is now
£l, with 3s. 3d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
O wing to the imposition of\\d. pontage, the subscription
to Tub Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease of in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —l Id. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted, by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of Tiie Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE .
lly sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have Tub Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of tins paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in thngth, or, say, 3000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To A mateurs in Ttlaclc and White .
Anyone supplying to Tub Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient,
•merit and, interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street, & Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. — L. E. Lee, Palace Hotel.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. 11. Solomon
and Co., 33 Hout-st., Capetown. Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
TZZe
SATURDAY, APRIL 5, 1902.
Cecil Rhodes—Anarchist.
The ablest anarchist of the century perished
with Cecil Rhodes. Daring, unscrupulous,
ignorant of even the meaning of fear, as
ready to stake his millions as his life in the
game of dominion, resourceful, single-aimed,
masterful, Rhodes had all the qualities of
greatness, except that humaneness which
softens in history the asperities of even great
military geniuses and makes the bloody
exploits of a Napoleon seem in a sense
admirable. The truly great man may be
superhuman ; he must be at least human.
Rhodes had no milk of human kindness in
his nature. He loved neither God nor coun-
try, nor woman nor child. Absolutely self-
centred, he toiled to make, not South Africa
great, nor “the Empire” great, but merely
Rhodes great. And necessarily he failed.
He fought against the stars in their courses
and all the laws of Nature. It was inevi-
table that, with his aims against Liberty
and against humanity, his career should be
one of foiled plans, of frustrated purposes ;
and when history passes its verdict on his
life, after the mists of present-day politics
have been cleared away, it will faiLto find
any great achievements as monuments to his
labors, only bitter failures and much useless
dross of gold. The future will judge Rhodes
an ambitious millionaire who meddled mis-
chievously in affairs of State.
* m 9 9
It is hard, however, to get other than a
partizan impression of Cecil Rhodes at the
present moment. The strife which he caused
still rages in S’Africa, and embittered men,
hunted from hill to hill, curse his name as
murderer, whilst the hunters acclaim him as
patriot, because it is necessary for them so
to do, or else declare against themselves and
their own work. The truth is with neither
extreme. Cecil Rhodes was not the bloody-
minded hater of the Boer race that he ap-
peared in the eyes of Kruger, nor the cham-
pion of British Imperialism that he persuaded
the English Cabinet to regard him —only an
utterly selfish, wildly ambitious, entirely
unscrupulous man, aspiring to dominion in
South Africa and helping Chamberlain
to crush the Boers, because he couldn’t
induce Kruger to join with Mr. Rhodes to
drive the British from South Africa.
Kruger perhaps recalled what was the fate
of the goat who went hunting with the lion ;
at any rate, he rejected all the great mil-
lionaire’s advances. So Rhodes had to
be pro-English. What was there else for
him to do ?
9 * 9 *
There is nothing more amusing in con-
temporary journalism than the crown-
ing of Mr. Rhodes with the laurels
of an Empire builder, the enshrining of
him as a champion of English Im-
perialism—the man whose original purpose
was the foundation of a united South Africa,
independent of England and ruled by Cecil
Rhodes. Perhaps in his wilder moments he
dreamed of an actual crown, always of
dominion for himself. For this purpose he
subsidised the campaign of Parnell against
the English House of Commons, believing
that dissension within the United Kingdom
gave the best hope of a disintegration which
would “ free” South Africa from England,
for himself to enslave. He was willing to
preach the cause of English Imperialism only
when it suited him. For instance, he bribed
the Liberal Party to convert it to a belief in
the British occupation of Egypt because
Britain in Egypt was more convenient for
him than France in Egypt or Turkey in
Egypt. But as regards South Africa Rhodes
was for the greater part of his life consis-
tently anti-English. He despised English
politics, hated English methods of rule, held
them as the chief obstacles to a personal
dominion which would serve his avarice and
his ambition. Not until the days of
Chamberlain did Rhodes ever see any-
thing admirable in English politics. In him
he found something of a kindred spirit
though he used him as a tool, rather than
trusted him as a friend.
* * • *
Mr. Rhodes for years courted sullen old
Kruger assiduously, sought by every means
to enlist Boer assistance for a united South
Africa, united in the bonds of Rhodes and
his allied capitalists. But Paul Kruger
was honest enough, or stupid enough, to
resist Rhodes’ advances, to stand in the
way of the plutocratising of S’Africa by the
chief of the gold-mining, diamond-mining
gang. There followed first the Rhodes
Raid and then the Rhodes War. It was a
significant incident—perhaps only a coinci-
dence, but remarkable even so—that so soon
as it was reported that Cecil Rhodes was
on his death-bed, the Boers showed the first
real signs since the beginning of the Rhodes
war of a disposition to yield. It would seem
as if they felt that their arch-enemy was
now removed and that peace with England
was at last possible. An English victory
they had always dreaded before as a
Rhodes victory. Certainly the problem of
South African settlement has been materially
simplified by the passing away of the bold
and restless schemer, whose ambitions were
inconsistent with any solution which failed
to put the country under the heel of the
half-German, half-Jewish gang of financiers,
who acknowledged him as leader.
* *“ * * 9
Mr. Rhodes was not an “Afrikander.’’
He aspired to see a United South Africa,
but only united for the purposes of exploita-
tion, consolidated so as to be better prey
for himself and De Beers, and Beit, and
the rest of the international capitalistic crew.
That was hardly a “patriotic” motive.
Least of all was Cecil Rhodes an English
Imperialist. He despised England, plotted
against her, did his best to sow dissension in
her councils, and conspired to take advantage
of that dissension to secure a South Africa
free from British control, but under the far
more objectionable despotism of himself and
his brother plutocrats. In politics Mr.
Rhodes was a financier and an anarchist.
He respected no law which stood in the way
of his plans. Throughout his aim was single
—to give South Africa one neck—that he
might bow it to his yoke.
* * • *
It is melancholy to reflect on a life so
fruitful of evil, so futile for good, as that of
Cecil Rhodes. The man had so many
magnificent qualities—a lion-hearted courage,
an audacious resoluteness, an unconquerable
fixity of purpose. Had he possessed these,
illuminated with any flame of true patriot-
ism or of love for humanity, a sorrowing
world might mourn him to-day as one of its
master spirits. But his great gifts were
stained by sordid avarice, by an absolute
lack of justice or humanity. The man whose
god was Money, who had never smiled on a
Woman and who had never hesitated to
break a law ; died potentially a great man,
actually an unsuccessful Political Boss.
A Commonwealth. Question.
Is Premier Barton going to England with
a loose leg and a loose tongue, or is he going,
as the representative of Parliament indeed,
but without authority to say one word as
regards the Future, to make one pledge for
which he has not received specific Parliamen-
tary authority ? Upon the latter course
Parliament should insist; for the simple
reason that Mr. Barton is not to be trusted.
The Bulletin does not undervalue, and
never will undervalue, the great services
which he rendered to the Australian Federal
movement. In that movement his heart
and imagination were enlisted ; and he did
honest and faithful labor. He helped to
kindle and he helped to feed the flame of
national sentiment that blazed into national
unity. And he has his reward in being
chosen first Prime Minister of the Common-
wealth which he did so much to create.
* 9 ♦ *
But Mr. Barton is characteristically a
weak man-good-natured, spasmodic, always
ready to go with the tide. Since his trip to
England as Federal delegate, he has seemed
to be little more than Chamberlain’s instru-
ment for the attainment of Imperial ends.
And there is good ground for the fear that,
when British interests and Australian in-
terests conflict, Barton will stand aside
and permit Australian interests to be thrust
to the wall. That seems to The Bulletin
a certainty. If it be only a likely contin
geacy, Parliament should take steps to
avoid it.
* * * *
There is already in Australia far too much
Government by Executive. We see State
Parliaments prorogued for six or eight
months of the year, during which the State
is ruled irresponsibly by Ministers relying
on a placable majority to endorse the gravest
breaches of constitutional law. We see money
spent continually without the authority of
Parliament, which is asked to pass esti-
mates long after the items have been
Ministerially dealt with. We see once and
again the Commonwealth Ministry taking
into their own hands the issues of peace or
war: at first when Parliament is not in session,
and again during the Very sittings of Parlia-
ment ; and brushing protest contemptuously
aside. And now, it seems, the Prime
Minister goes to England with the intention
to take important steps in matters of policy,
subject to the revision of Parliament. For
that affirmative is clearly to be inferred from
Senator O’Connor’s negative, in reply to a
question, that “ the Prime Minister
did not intend to take any important
steps in matters of policy except sub-
ject to the revision of Parliament.” Why
should he take important steps of policy at
all, except by express instruction of Parlia-
ment ? Let him confine himself to considera-
tion and debate, reserving all acquiescence
or rejection until Parliament shall have con-
sidered the policy upon his return.
* * * *
M.L. Premier Seddon, that blatant Jingo,
proposes to hold triennial conferences
of colonial Premiers with the Imperial
authorities. The Bulletin would at least
add the provisothat nothing should be pro-
mised, nothing done, without previous Par-
liamentary approval. All these con-
ferences point the same ominous way
for Australia—the way of loss of in-
dependence, the way of sacrifice of
interests, the way of draining young life
to feed the impoverished veins of Britain.
Weak Australian heads are dazzled, strong
heads are bribed, in the interests of Britain
—which may or may not be Australia’s in-
terests. As a result of the conference of
1887 we have been paying some £120,003
a year for 15 years to support the so-called
Australian Defence Squadron : though we
could have borrowed the money at less cost,
and by this time owned the ships as a nursery
of Australian seamen. If Edmund Barton
—the weak, the sociable—goes to England
with a free hand, the result is likely to be
disastrous to Australia. He has no claim to
that free hand. He should be quite content
to remain what he constitutionally is—the
mouthpiece of Parliament, and nothing
more.
* * * *
Therefore : let us muzzle our dog Toby.
“When to Perjure, and Why!”
—A neat little Manual of Perjury, in, say, 250 pp.
crown Bvo., bound in bright crimson figured
with black gibbets. There might be a frontispiece
illustration showing the conventional perjurer
with arm uplifted in a “Strike me dead ! ” impre-
cation (and not struck). The contents: full and
explicit directions regarding public and private
lying, supported by authorities legal and theo-
logical, and helped by examples drawn hot from
Australian social history and the Australian law
courts. That is the manual we want: will Judge
Stephen write it ?
* • • 9
It was N.S.W. Supreme Court Judge Stephen
—standing four-square to Public Morality, as his
father stood triangular—who lifted a distressful
voice against perjury the other day. “If,” said
his Honor, —
If calamities and afflictions were visitations of the
Almighty for national crimes, such as drunkenness and
immorality, as they were taught, he was certain that the
rampant perjury that was committed must be a factor in
bringing upon them retributive punishment. He would
never cease to call attention to this awful evil of false
swearing. Nowhere was the name of God taken more in
vain than in courts of justice. Men entered the witness-
box, calling upon God to witness that they were about to
speak the truth, and then in the very presence of God
they lied.
The argument is hypothetical. Judge Stephen is
not sure, or professes to be not sure, whether the
plague in Sydney in March, 1902, is the direct
result of the tremendous whopper sworn by Emily
Jane Binks when in the throes of divorce during
September, 1900. And wiser men than his Honor
have failed to trace a similar connection between
the human cause and the alleged Divine effect.
The notion that a Deity stands on guard, like a
court policeman, ready to arrest people who lie
before Judge Stephen, is indeed a little fiction in-
vented in the interests of public morality. “If
you tell a lie, Bogey ’ll catch you ! ” says his
mother to suspected jam-thief Tommy, aged
8. And, “If you commit perjury,” says
in effect Judge Stephen to Tommy grown to
maturity, “ Bogey may catch you, and your com-
munity may suffer from calamities and afflictions.”
“As we are taught.” Personally, it would seem
Judge Stephen has his doubts. Possibly he has
seen so many perjurers become successful lawyers
and politicians and professional pillars of public
morality, that he has been impressed with the
notable uncertainty of the Almighty visitation
But convention demands that Judges and magis-
trates shall be the last rats to leave the sink-
ing ship of popular theology. So Judge
Stephen strikes a balance between his private
beliefs and the opinions which he conceives
to be demanded by his position, and lifts that
distressful voice to declare that if smallpox
be a Divine punishment of drunkenness, then the
plague has been fairly earned by local perjury.
* • * *
The compromise is somewhat ignoble. One would
think that even a N.S.W. Supreme Court Judge
could afford nowadays to admit that perjury is
often profitable to the individual, and that the
form of perjury called diplomacy is generally held
to be profitable to the community. The Bulletin
suggests that it might be better to treat perjury
as a purely mundane phenomenon ; better to end
the rather foolish practice of subpcena-ino-
the. Almighty to the Supreme Court and the
Police Court; better to look at perjury scientific-
ally, to ascertain why Emily Jane Bines is so
naughty, and how we can make her good by purely
social methods. Here, then, is where Judge
Stephen might devote his loose steam to grinding
corn, and concentrate his proper social indigna
tion in that neat and much-needed manual,
“When to Perjure, and Why !”
* * * *
The subject might tax Judge Stephen’s
social energy; for it twists and ramifies so that
even a. Supreme Court Judge might be puzzled to
track its windings, And then the Judges differ.
On the point of Woman’s perjury, for example : is
she to be held responsible ? Or is it to be avowed
that she has no more notion of the virtue of Truth
than a child, and no more compunction in swear-
ing black white than the last Gent. One admitted?
“ Who,” asks the poet Meston—
Who comes as free as a bird on wing,
Whose dress is a weird and wondrous thing,
With the stately step of a proud Sultana,
And lips as-soft as a ripe banana ?
Who but the lady who rustles into the witness
box to awe even the junior Bar with her unblush-
ing perjury, and to draw from a horrified Bench
the comment which Judge a’Beokett, of Victoria,
made upon a case in August, 1900—
This case shows the extent to which woman dare swear
falsely against positive evidence. They are utterly
destitute of shame, remorse, or any feeling of regret for
wrong they have done.
Can the creature Woman, thus destitute of a moral
sense, justly be held responsible under the moral
law? The Manual of Perjury would discuss the
point, and decide it.
** * *
Then there is the interesting point of a man’s
perjury : when justified, and how far ? We can-
not all hope to find counsel so complaisant as
Richard Davis Ireland, the Victorian Q. C.,
found in J. D. Wood. When “ Quick Dick ” got
into the witness-box as co-respondent, Wood
said: “I will not ask you on your oath, Mr.
Ireland ; but I will ask yon on your honor, have
you ever had any illegal intercourse with the
respondent ? ” Ireland solemnly placed his hand
over his heart, bowed most respectfully,
and said: “On my honor, I never had.”
The implications are various ; but the point is one
and single : the Courts will not be satisfied with
the average man’s honor ; they desire his oath.
And when it comes to the inculpation of an
amorous woman, is he not to perjure himself in
order to shield her? “Yes, decidedly,” answers
Public Opinion by the mouths of the Adelaide
crowd that hooted and assailed Gustave Nitschke
for reciting, on oath, his relations with Mary
Schippan. And theManualof Perjury mighttell us
why. Does the Deity whom JudgeSTEPHEN assumes
to be called as witness to an oath damn the per-
jurer who lies to save his own skin, and laud the
perjurer who lies to save a woman’s ?
* * * * '
And there are many other points, besides that
grave initial point of “ Why not perjure ?”
“ Because you will go to hell if you do.”
“But we have lost faith in hell; and, anyway,
the torments of hell are dim and remote, and the
advantages of perjury are present and obvious.”
“ Then, because perjury is ruinous to society.”
“ But it is profitable to Me.”
“ Not in the long run ; not when you are found
out.”
“But there is no long run; there is just this
necessary once ; and I am not going to be found
out.”
And the Manual of Perjury may continue the
argument to the perjurer’s discomfiture, if it can.
* * * *
The Bulletin exhorts Judge Stephen, or
Judge a’Beckett, or any other Judge impressed
with the evils of perjury, to set to work at once.
Even if the Manual only states the questions at
issue, something will be done. (Price, 3s. fid. or
so.) The oath has lost its efficacy ; the fear of
Bogey has lost its virtue. What binding obligation
can Judge Stephen supply in lieu ? (With a cheap
Woolloomooloo edition at Is., to catch the impe-
cunious commonalty.) Is shuffling the feet still a
legal proof of want of veracity, as alleged by the
illustrious Justice Windeyer? What is the
precise moral status of the mental reservationist ?
(The Manual could be given away with lib.
of tea by the military merchants who shriek for
[other fellows’] blood, and are themselves found
by the water famine engaged in the idyllic pur-
suit of a blue pelargonium with a green pot.)
* * * *
Quite seriously : the oath should be abolished ;
the pretence of Almighty interference should be
discarded ; and the Courts, instead of shrieking,
should devote themselves to catching the perjurer
and making it hot for him [her] when they catch
him [her]. And the Manual of Perjury might
close with a chapter on Ways and Means.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Too Much Governor!
Tory Victoria will perhaps take the lead pre-
sently in demanding the abolition of imported
State Governors. Melbourne begins to feel its
over-governored condition very keenly. Hope-
TOUn flaunts the British Flag from the tower of
his conspicuous Government House, what time
Sir George Clarke tries to pose as though he
thought himself necessary, and Wax Madden
struts around with an air of undiminished import-
ance. Melbourne indeed suffers from an almost
constant affliction of vice-regality in the positive,
comparative and superlative degrees. Madden
has been Acting-Governor so often and for so long
at a stretch that he looms larger than Clarke in
the public eye. Fifty per cent, of the Vic-
torian population are probably unaware of the
State Governor’s presence in their midst, and
those who occasionally have Sir Gehige
Clarice thrust under their notice are apt


to murmur a disparaging “Oh!” when they
find he isn’t Hopetoun. The circumstance
of Melbourne being the Australian Capital pro
tern, doesn’t lower the actual position of the im-
ported person who came to hand last November,
but it serves to expose the political hollowness of
the local figurehead. With the Gov.-General out
of the way officialdom would easily contrive to
give the new-chum State Governor an appearance
of real dignity. In newspaper paragraphs and
photographs he would seem to be earning his
salary. Under present circumstances he gets
little or no show to impose on the
credulous sentiment of “loyalty.” There is
nothing for him to do in the social way which
cannot be more frillishly performed by his
superior officer Hopetoun ; and no papers foi him
to sign which Waxellency Madden couldn’t sign
with a finer flourish of the pen, at a much more
economical rate of remuneration. Through no
fault of his own Sir Geokge Clarke was fated to
drive nails into the coffin of the old provincial-
governor system. He stands as the shocking
example—the text for the reformer —the target for
vulgar scorn, also the last straw that is weighing
on the camel’s back.
4.
Wholesale and Retail.
The same week’s papers reported to Australia
the deaths of Cecil Rhodes and Lieut. Morant
in S’Africa. The one slowly died whilst English
royalty sent polite messages of sorrow, the other
was puffed out of life as a criminal and a desperado.
There is always the same distinction in England
between the wholesale man and the retail man.
He who makes beer in vats becomes a lord, and
the King “starts his mash” for him. He who
sells it by the glass is a low publican, and can’t
even be made a J.P. Cecil Rhodes was a
practical Imperialist, a Jingo bushranger on
a wholesale scale, an instrument in the hands
of Providence for removing many thousands
of Boers from the path of the Chosen People.
Morant had similar objects in view, pursued
with the same calm disregard for the other side
to the controversy, but he had the misfortune to
work on retail lines. So the one died in the odour
of Royal favor; the other, on adding to his retail
transgressions the fault of clumsiness in being
found out, was shot in the King’s name. The
Bush veldt Carbineers, of which Morant and other
Australians punished for killing Boer prisoners
were officers, seems to have been mostly a
“ Colonial ” corps. It put into operation the
principles to which almost every pro-Gore paper
in Australia gave tacit approval—the prin-
ciples of “no quarter,” “no kid-glove busi-
ness,” “no bother about prisoners”—the prin-
ciples instilled, day by day, By means of
letters from cohentingenters. The corps at various
times seems to have shot some scores of Boer
prisoners in cold blood. When this barbarism had
been “ witnessed by Germans ” and had become
altogether too much of a public scandal, four of
the Australian bushrangers—the true practical Im-
perialists who were settling the problem in
S’Africa by the methods preached in pro-Gore
papers—were tried and punished—two with
death. And the responsibility ? In the first
place it must be attached to those Australian
newspapers that published, with tacit or expressed
approval, the blood-thirsty outpourings of soldiers
at the front —bristling with savage threats “to
give no quarter,” teeming with Red Indian details
about securing Boer whiskers and other bits of Boer
anatomy for trophies. After the first contingent,
if the Australians who went to S’Africa did not
go with the idea that their task was one of exter-
mination, not of campaigning, it was by no means
the fault of their newspapers. In the second
instance, the responsibility must rest with the
Imperial authorities in S’Africa—with Ketchener
and his council. These Carbineers were a body
of “ Irregular Horse.” Now, what is a corps of
Irregular Horse for but to fieirregular—to dothings
which the regular forces cannot lawfully do ?
Morant alleged that he got the straight tip from
Ketchener’s staff that “they didn’t want too
many Boer prisoners in the Concentration
Camps.” The alleged tip was taken and the
prisoners shot in scores, according to one account.
If Morant and his brother officers had had as
cool blood for the hiding of their tracks as for the
killing of their victims they would probably have
been now wearing distinguished-service medals
for their “ bag ”of Boers. The trouble was that
they were found out too flagrantly. In fact, they
were shot for clumsiness—clumsiness combined
with a paltry retail manner of murdering.
4 :
What Martial Law Means.
The following extracts from a letter sent by a
resident of Capetown to Mr. H. J. Ogden, and
published in Manchester (Eng.) Guardian, of
Bth Eeb., indicates the state to which martial law
has reduced Cape Colony :
The fact is the people who hold opinions which are
described as pro-Boer are living in a reign of terror.
We have to be extremely careful of what we say or write,
for a request to visit the Castle is a command as inexor-
able as that of the prefect of police in a Russian town.
We know what Russia is like in this new Russia under
the Union Jack. . . . One Outlander said he hoped to
get back to the Rand when the d military would let
him, and this helot saw the interior of the Castle for a
few days. ... I believe there is an “index expurga-
torius” of some thirty publications, but, curiously enough,
their names are not printed on the martial law regulations’
as was done up country. The first papers to be suppressed
were London Trutii, Reynolds, the New Earth, and
the Review op Reviews. The Manchester Guardian, the
Daily News, and the Speaker are submitted to the cen-
sor. . . . Your little book on the war has been suppressed.
I have not seen it, but l am told it contains no arguments,
nothing but facts and extracts from speeches. There is
nothing, however, of which they are in so much fear.
The suppression was in this wise. A detective officer
went to the booksellers and demanded the names of all
the persons to whom the book had been supplied. He then
called on the persons named, and demanded that the book
should be delivered up. Of course it was in most cases—
it is no use kicking against the pricks-when these pricks
consist of 250,000 bayonets, and when there is no appeal
to the civil courts. Mr. Methuen’s little book (“ Peace or
War,” probably) has also been suppressed. It was sur-
prising that it was not suppressed before yours, but that
can be accounted for by the invincible ignorance of the
military, who know nothing, and rarely learn. The great
desire of the powers that be is to suppress the truth.
I shall give you two proofs of this. Mr. Vosloo, late
editor of the Somerset East Budget, who has recently
been released from prison after serving his term for
seditious libel, has been refused a permit to
leave the country. So has the late reporter on
the (now suspended) South African News. Now,
why is this? Obviously the military should be
glad to get rid of “ turbulent ” persons. The only reasons
can be that they know too much, and therefore they are
less dangerous to the British Government, incarcerated in
Capetown than free in Europe or America, where they
would be unmuzzled. lam told (but I cannot vouch for
this) that a lady, a relative of the Chief Justice, Sir Henry
de Villiers, has been refused a permit to leave the colony
unless she will undertake to say nothing about the war in
England. They have made a solitude and called it peace ,
they make a silence and call it approval. ... I am in-
formed on excellent authority (an-emigrant from Somerset
East) that, in one of the inland towns (Cradock, I believe),
a father was compelled by the military to witness the
execution of his son—a man named Kotze. The father
im nediately joined the first commando he could reach.
This is, perhaps, an extreme case of the brutality which is
taking place. I know of others, brutal enough, but not
quite so bad. The Commandant at Cradock admitted, in
a speech to the Dutch inhabitants, that, as a result of the
execution, no less than 300 had joined the Boers in that
neighborhood—one from nearly every family. Are the
people, who have not forgotten, even if they have forgiven
Slachter’s Nek, ever likely to forgive this sort of thing?
I write as an Englishman who cannot trace any foreign
blood in his veins as far back as he can count—four gene-
rations.
4.
For the Sanitary Autocrat.
There awaits for the sanitary autocrat, when he
is appointed in N.S.W. (and he must be appointed
if ever the city of Sydney is to be cleared
of its frowsiness and filth), much important
work in the way of securing structural clean-
liness. Nowadays, when the Plague comes
to Sydney, backyards and cellars and rookeries
are swept, and fumigated and whitewashed ; and
the effect is just about that of clearing out a long-
neglected pig-stye with a feather-duster. Much
of Sydney is so built that it can’t be kept clean ;
in some places the cellars are made of rotten
rubble, and act as rat-warrens ; in others, flooring
is directly laid upon the earth. Elsewhere the
drainage is constructed so as to give the maxi-
mum of infection. Yet, again, dwelling-houses
are built upon areas which have been
for years used as rubbish-tips. All these
evils call not for the broom and the hose
but the fire-stick and the mason. A very large
proportion of Sydney must be rebuilt; a small pro-
portion must be destroyed and not rebuilt for
years and years, and the drainage system,
which sends a big proportion of the city’s
sewage into the busiest part of the harbor,
must be re-modelled. Until the harbor is
protected from sewage and slaughter-house
drainage, and its foreshores are made rat-proof—
until no Sydney house has means of communica-
tion for rats or other vermin between the drain-
pipes and the cellarage—will there be any chance
of clearing the city definitely of the Plague.
These things may be' looked for from a
sanitary autocrat; but not from any other
source. The State Government some time
years ago “resumed” a large area of Sydney,
ostensibly to clean it up and rebuild it on sanitary
lines; so far, it has not made the slightest struc-
tural improvement in the resumed area. It is
just as dirty and smelly as ever ; the only change
is that there is one extra odor—that of a big
financial scandal —hanging over the quarter. The
State can hope for nothing from its municipalities,
nothing from its State Government. Parliament
must put sanitation into the hands of an Autocrat.
4
The Micawber Policy.
There can be hardly any doubt that the action
of a majority of the members of the Federal
House of Representatives in sweeping away the
duty on tea and sacrificing other valuable revenue
items of the Barton tariff is generally popular.
The Micawber policy of drifting into debt
and hoping for something to turn up is
held by the great majority of the people.
It is only a small minority which has the
intelligence to see that nothing can “turn up,”
that it will never rain gold sovereigns from the
sky on Australia, and that what is borrowed must
be repaid some day, with all its accumulation of
interest thick upon it; unless the country adopts
the disreputable expedient of the race-course
welsher, and, by repudiating its debts, makes
a dishonest name for itself and runs the
risk of the money-lender trying to “ take
out of its hide ” the. satisfaction he cannot get
from its pocket. This small, intelligent minority
is faced by what Ibsen called “a damned com-
pact liberal majority,” which is resolved to
Micawberise to the bitter end, to pay as little
in taxes as possible, to borrow as much
as possible, and to have as high a time as
possible generally and darn the consequences.
The main principle of Australian finance
has been made, by the politicians subser-
vient to this majority, one of Not Paying Up. It
is not a characteristic of one party, but of all
parties, favored by Freetraders and Protectionists
and Labor members alike. In N.S.W. the
Reid finance seemed to reach the pinnacle
of extravagance and of obligation-dodging, until
the Lyne finance showed itself a shade worse,
and the See finance capped them all.
From no party of any weight in the country has
there ever come an absolute pronouncement in
favor of financial honesty : the Queensland Labor
party at the last general election came near to
that point, but even it funked at a declaration
against further borrowing by a land whose interest
bill is already in excessive disproportion to its in-
come. The only chance of reform seems to be a
hint from an outside party—the party which has
lent the money. And that must come soon.
4,
Sectarian Stinkpots.
Sectarian stinkpots are being thrown about in
New South Wales just now with a vigor unpre-
cedented since the days of the Kiama ghost.
Within a couple of years there have been several
notable additions to the ranks of those news-
papers which make a living by stirring up religious
strife, recalling the dead days of Protestant and
Roman Catholic persecutions. But the yelling
of the yellow pup and the squealing of the
green animal are not confined to the columns of
those newspapers. The secular organs are
generally only too glad to join in the fray, and
howl on one side or the other, when they see a
chance to profit thereby, and so the N.S. W. com-
munity is gradually being worked up to the point
when the religious differences of the 18th
century will be submitted to the arbitra-
ment of bottles and blue-metal in the
20th. The recent “St Patrick’s Day ” holiday
was made the rallying point of a fine green-and-
yellow row. Business firms having petitioned
against the day being proclaimed a public holiday,
one Minister of the Crown discussed, in an inter-
view with a paper representing the extremists of
his sect, “the bumble-footed Orange patriots” who
were the signatories. A lot of them, he remarked,
were people “who, if I saw them in close proxi-
mity with me, I would promptly button up my
pockets against.” This language by a member of
the Cabinet towards citizens who had exercised a
constitutional right of petition, was fortunately
only given to the world in the obscure columns of
a rabid sectarian weekly. Its mischievousness
was more than matched (because of the wider
circulation in this case) by an article in a morn-
ing paper’s weekly, which contained more than
half a suggestion that bottles might be sent
flying on St. Patrick’s Day as a Protestant protest
against Roman dominion. The See Government
must be held responsible for a good deal of
this noisome sectarian growth : since its term of
office began, it has followed a policy of “conciliat-
ing ” various sects in turn, instead of absolutely
ignoring all of them—the only safe line of conduct.
Ihe Bulletin trusts that there yet remains
sufficient courage and common-sense in the great
bulk of the community—which is utterly un-
interested in the controversy between Boyne
Billy and the Pope—to crush out this sectarian
strife before it goes any further.
Consumption.
“ J.A.0.” writes on matters of interest to the
phthisical:
He Sydney consumption figures (Bul., l/3/’Ol). Very
drastic, perhaps too drastic, measures are being adopted
in some parts of America against the spread of the
disease. Sullivan County (New York) has determined to
get rid of consumptives altogether. Liberty—strange
name under the circumstances —the county seat, recently
passed an ordinance forbidding residents to harbor con-
sumptives in hotels, boarding-houses, or sanatoria;
and, only a month or two ago, 20 consumptive patients
were rounded up before a Justice of the Peace and fined
five dollars each. At Rockland, another town in the
same State, the reception of any consumptive, other than
an immediate relative, into a family is prohibited, and
even visits from phthisical friends are interdicted. The
New York Tribune is responsible for these statements.
Other districts in the United States, however,
instead of adopting methods which fall little,
if at all, short of persecution, are working humanely
to minimise the malady. Massachusetts has a State
sanatorium where the open-air treatment is practised, and
the annual report of the institution shows that the
method was efficacious in 67 per cent, of the cases treated
in 1901. The open air cure is making great strides, and
is in operation in many European curative establish-
ments, principally in mountainous districts, with re-
markable results. The system consists, mainly, in the
patient living as much out of doors as possible, and
sleeping at night in a very well ventilated apart-
ment. Some years ago Dr. Oonan Doyle, in a
magazine article, recommended a trip to the Arctic
regions as a phthisis cure. The tuberculosis bacillus
cannot exist in that germless atmosphere, and similar
conditions are obtained in high altitudes. Dr. Nansen
has placed on record that, while returning from his dash
in the “ Eram ” for the Pole, neither he nor his com-
panion, although daily soaked with ice-cold water
which frequently froze on them, ever had a
touch of a cold. The islanders of St. Kilda, in
the Scottish Hebrides, possess an immunity from
colds, until the arrival of some vessel from the
mainland, when they nearly all are temporarily affected.
This would seem to prove pretty conclusively the in-
fectious nature of pulmonary complaints. Query ?
What about cruises to the Antarctic, or a sanatorium on
Mt. Kosciusko, for Australian consumptives ? At a meet-
ing of the French Academy of Medicine on 14th Jan.
last a report was read on the notable effect of a new
remedy for consumption, called bacilline. The experi-
ments related were the outcome of a year’s work at
Roubaix, a centre of the woollen industry in the north of
France, and a hotbed of tuberculosis. The result was a
cure in 84 per cent, of the cases. The bacilline, which is
a liquid composed of the active principles of plants
which grow in Chili and Columbia, is hypodermically
injected. All these matters are worth considering in a
country where one city can show 2110 deaths from con-
sumption in four years. And all these deaths came to pass
without any panic, though when 100 deaths from plague
were registered for all Australia the hair of the com-
munity stood on end with alarm, and the population
made for the mountains like a swarm of bees.
A Cobar-Broken-liill Railway.
Premier See, who had not been to Broken Hill
since, 15 years ago, he and Lyne and Copeland
and G-arvan went there to look at a marvellous
show they had (later on it proved the most hope-
less of all the desperate wild cats that scratched
Sydney in those days), has come back from there
surer than ever that the railway line ought to go
on from Cobar, via Wilcannia, to the silverfield.
And so it certainly ought, and so some day it cer-
tainly will; but meantime Premier See in talking
about it makes one or two common mistakes.
“If Sydney and Broken Hill were connected we
could supply coal, coke, timber, and other goods
required.” Well, N.S.W. already does supply all
the coal that is required ; as for coke, since
no smelting is done there, Broken Hill it-
self doesn’t want any. As for mine-timber,
successful competition with the light and easily-
worked American Oregon, admitted on a very low
tariff, and landed less than 300 miles away, is
extremely doubtful. Anyway, if Australian
timber can compete, it will hardly be as the result
of hauling it 800 miles across country, when it can
be taken round to Port Pirie, and sent up from
there on a special rate. Same as to “the other
things.” Ore-boats are regularly carrying stuff
round from Pirie to Newcastle and Illawarra, and
going back they can land goods at Pirie, whence
the S. Aus. railways make special rates to the
Hill at a price that must, generally speaking,
knock-out the 800 miles of rail-carriage. Prom a
national point of view, it is a good line to make,
and that part of the Broken Hill trade which it
will get will go some distance towards paying the
bill; but to boom it on the ground that it will
“capture the Broken Hill trade” is mere wild-
cat politics. And, anyway, however it may be
from a State point of view, from an Australian
national view-point it isn’t good policy to spend
large sums for the purpose of capturing for one
port the trade of a district 800 miles away when
it has another good enough port 300 miles away.
Instead, the Pederal policy is to help the district
to reach its natural port without climbing
over more barbed-wire fences than is necessary.
— +
Concerning’ Some Imperial Grease.
The Bulletin notices that Chamberlain and
Salisbury are still making remarks to this effect ;
What we look to is the opinion of those of our own kin,
who belong to our own Empire.
The affection and confidence of our kinsfolk across the
seas are of more importance to us than the goodwill of
foreigners.
In future Great Britain would have to take into account
public opinion in the colonies, and consult the colonists.
All this is very nice and oily and indefinite. It
goes down easily—like swallowing a small kitten
in gravy. But Australia notices that it wasn’t
consulted about the arrangements made with
other Powers in Samoa and the New Hebrides.
It isn’t consulted now about whether it wants the
S’African war pushed to complete annexation or
not. The Japanese treaty, which concerns this
country not a little, isn’t even mentioned to us
till after it is completed. Australia might have
no particular desire to be consulted about these
things, but the oily gammon of the hard-faced
screw-maker from Birmingham is none the less
objectionable. Salisbury, the moral greaser, and
Chamberlain, the immoral greaser, get up a
reputation for broad statesmanship and other
mental furniture by this talk about “ consulting
the wishes of the colonies.” And they never con-
sult ‘ * the colonies, ” even on matters which affect
them most directly. Nobody ever rode more
rough-shod over “the colonies” than the oily
and insinuating Chamberlain and eo.
♦
A twice-returned contingenter to The Bulletin
on the armed-nigger question :
Dear Bulletin.— l notice that the Imperial authorities
still refuse to accept the services of Maori troops for
S’Africa, and continue to assert that armed natives are
not used against the Boers. Nevertheless, they do use
them, and in large numbers, too—not only such as are
attached to various mounted regiments for scouting pur-
poses, but in regularly-organised bodies with different
columns. Way up round Komati Poort there is
a corps known as Steinacker’s Horse, the members
of which, when not down with malarial fever,
put in the time bossing niggers, equipped (bar
clothing, perhaps) the same as ourselves. But
officially these nigs, are known as native police—a title
entirely misleading to anyone not in the know. Also,
have seen them along the railway lines in block-houses,
etc., doing duty as infantry, but have never seen them
officially described at all. Don’t you think it is about
time the newspapers shut down on the pretended non-
existence of the armed nigger in question ? I do. Have
served with Australian contingents since the “kick-off,”
so have seen a few things that the press censors don’t let
out.—Time X.
After what has just transpired, The Bulletin
is ready to believe anything alleged to have hap-
pened round Komati Poort.
»
There is represented to be great indignation in
Australia at the fate of her two citizens executed
in S’Africa for shooting Boer prisoners. But can
this country seriously claim the right of its soldiers
to murder prisoners of war in cold blood ? Indig-
nation because of the executions is an indefensible
sentiment. But there should be indignation at
the war policy of Ketchener which sent a
body of only too-well-selected Australians to
act as guerillas in a remote part of the enemy’s
country, for that was the root cause of the mur-
ders. And there should be also indignation at
the pro-Boer Australian papers which sedulously
fostered sentiments making such murders pos-
sible. An idiotically Jingo Sunday paper, for
instance, published this —without any expressions
of disagreement:
The steamship Afric arrived at Melbourne with a batch
of returned Australian troopers from the Cape. One of
them made the following statement to the Melbourne
representative of the Sydney Sunday Times :—“ We had
to go without food when there was a scarcity, but Boer
prisoners were not allowed to go short. And what was
the result? Well, knowing the silly sentimentality that
prevailed on the subject, the soldiers would rather
shoot the Boers than take them prisoners, because
it paid them better to do so. I remember a party
of 50 men being sent away with 19 prisoners to a place
some 10 or 12 miles distant, where food was scarce. Did
they arrive all right with the prisoners? Not very
much.” “Why, what happened?” “The Boers were
shot on the j'ourney,” was the grim reply, “ and they did
not eat any more of the short supplies.”
Morant and his brother officers took that tip all
right. It may have been, as they said, reinforced
by a private tip from Ketchener’s own secretary ;
but, after all, to be put in charge of a body of
“Irregulars” would be tip enough for “well-
selected ” men who had read Australian Jingo
papers.
+
“ Veteran ” writes :
War-Secretary Brodrick is nearer right than he knows
when he says the time has not yet come to employ Indian
troops against the Boers. It never will come. That
German officer in China, who said, as the result of his
observation of the Indian troops there, that their peculiar
character and manners made them useless, except in the
hands of those who thoroughly understood them, was
also right. Sepoys are j'ust as brave as other men when
they have an enemy in front in daylight; but they are
j'ealous of their flanks and rear, and when their flanks are
turned are liable to panics in which they have been
known to fire into their supports. They have even more
than the ordinary soldier’s dread of night-surprises, and,
if sent out in small columns, three months experience of
Boer methods would reduce the whole Indian native army
to a shivering, nerveless, terror-stricken mass of men,
ready to start at every shadow, seeing an enemy in every
bush, and hearing his voice in the cry of every night-
bird. To make matters worse, the number of European
officers (12 to a cavalry, and 10 to an infantry regiment is
the maximum, and half of them are generally sick or
away) is too small, and the native officers will take no
responsibility on an emergency, or do anything without
detailed orders. Then the cavalry have to pro-
vide their own horses and equipment (the Govern-
ment only gives them a carbine and 30 rupees a month
each). Fancy the temper a regiment of such men would
be in if required to gallop their cherished, petted horses
to a standstill after a Boer commando. Their temper
would be no better if, while skirmishing on foot against
a more or less imaginary line of Boers in front, a Boer
rush from the flank were to sweep away their horses.
Besides, it would need the whole Indian native army,
which, all told, is little, if at all, more than 100,000
strong, to produce any sensible effect in S’Africa, and
what would happen in India with the constant bickering
on the N.W. frontier, the sullen discontent of the
Mahrattas, and the secret ambition of the Gurkhas of
Nipal, goodness only knows. The less said about Indian
troops the better.
>
In 1900 the United States exported to Great
Britain over £138,000,000 worth of goods, and by
shutting out imports as much as possible under its
Protective tariff it only bought from Britain
£37,000,000 worth. According to the silly Free-
trade doctrine that exports must be paid for by
imports, the United States thus lost £101,000.000.
But they didn’t. With the difference the U.S.
bought up England’s biggest match-factory, one
of its large lines of steamers, large interests
in some of England’s railways, a vast mass of
British Government securities, a great number of
foreign Government securities formerly owned in
England, a lot of its own securities formerly
owned in England, and a few other trifles. While
doing all this, it supplied an immense amount of
work and good wages to its own people, and mean-
while the country that bought all this ready-made
stuff is naturally losing its hold on the world’s
industries. It isn’t twenty years since Britain
almost supplied the world with steel goods.
Now, one United States company makes-more
steel goods than all Great Britain,' and the U.S.
and Germany are not only supplying the world,
but they threaten to supply Britain also.
+
How the black man fares in S’Africa under
British rule—the rule of the people who are sup-
posed to be fighting in the cause of Liberty—as
expounded by English writer Morrison David-
son :
(1) In the strip of East African Coast—a British Protec-
torate—which faces Zanzibar, the full “legal status of
slavery ” is maintained, and fugitive slaves have ever been
handed back to their owners by British officials.
(2) In Natal, the Corvee system prevails, and all natives
not employed by whites may be impressed to labor for six
months of the year on the roads.
(3) In Bechuanaland, after a recent minor rebellion,
natives were parcelled put among the Cape farmers and
“ indentured ” to them as virtual slaves for a term of
years.
(4) Under the Chartered Co. in Rhodesia the chiefs are
required, under compulsion, to furnish batches of young
natives to work in the mines, and the ingenious plan of
taxing the Kafir in money rather than in kind has been
adopted so that he may be forced to earn the pittance
which the prospectors are willing to pay him.
(5) In Kimberley what is known as the “Compound
System ” prevails. All natives who work on the diamond
fields are required to reside under lock and key, day and
night, in certain “ compounds,” which resemble spacious
prisons. So stringent is the system that even the sick
are treated only within the prison yard. On no pretext
whatever is a native allowed to leave his compound.
The Bulletin does not say these methods are
bad. The British abolished slavery in B.E.A.
and the act produced such a crop of evils they
were glad to re-institute it. But the methods are
slavery, pure and simple, and it is time the Briton
dropped the tired wheeze about “ no slavery under
the Union Jack.” That’s all.
+ :
A fearsome proposal has emanated from Carlo
Catani, Vic. Engineer of Public Works. The
leased mallee lands in that State revert to Govt, in
1903, and as a great space of that dry wilderness is
below the level of the Murray Mr. Catani suggests
that a slice of the river bank should be cut away,
a sluice constructed, and the placid Murray turned
adrift to wander promiscuously over Victoria.
The idea has vast possibilities. In the first case
this would be robbery of a river, for N.S. W. has
always claimed the Murray as her own private
property; S.A. would also want tremendous
damages for the deliberate theft of about the only
billyful of fresh water she possesses. Also, the
stream might take to meandering in unex-
pected places; judging by the tortuousness of


The EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
of the United States.
FINANCIAL STATEMENT
FOR YEAR ENDING 31st DECEMBER, 1901.
ASSETS
INCREASE IN ASSETS
£68.966.608
£5,508,678
SURPLUS
INCREASE IN SURPLUS
£14.797,717
£1,039,973
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
INCREASE IN ASSURANCE IN FORCE
£245,682,651
£13,000,350
THE NEW BUSINESS EXCEEDED THAT OF 1900 by ...
£8,088,718
LOCAL DIRECTORS:
Sir WM. M'MILLAN, K.C.M.G., Chairman; Hon. C. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C. ;
F. NORTON MANNING, Esq., M.D.
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager For Australasia.
S. W. JD’ARCY IRVINE, F.S.S.,
F. O. COWLEY, Secretary. Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
Eye COMFORT!
f
Is yours if you come here for
your glasses. We’ll test your
eyes FREE, and advise glasses
ONLY when absolutely neces-
sary. n.b.— Post Test sent
Free to any country address.
WOOD,THE
299
Ceorge-st.
OPTICIAN,
Note ONLY Address—299 Georoe-st.
(Top of Hunter-st. in George-s'
, Sydney
r.)
Melbourne.
FACILE PRINCEPS,
SEMPER IDEM.
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
most Australian creeks it would as likely as not
double back through the N.T. and come out some-
where near Moreton Bay—or it might disappear
in some vast sand-drift in the M‘Donnell Ranges.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Railway Station Fitzgeralds’ Oircua.
Moore Park R.A.S. Show.
Lyceum “ The Span of Life.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Empire “ Sapho.”
Palace World’s Entertainers.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ The Amazons.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Runaway Girl.”
Theatre Royal “ The Night Birds of London.”
Bijou “The Wrong Mr. Wright.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
4
Sydney Palace re-opened on Saturday
night with a new company of World’s Enter-
tainers, transplanted from Melbourne. The
enthusiastic reception accorded them was reminis-
cent of the first days of this American organisation
here, and it was evident that the foundation of a
successful season had been laid. Salerno, a
juggler, is the star performer; almost as facile as
Cinquevalli in his methods, he has the advantage
over him of a greater and more attractive variety
in his exhibition of skill. In his juggling with
billiard balls and cues, with wine bottles and
glasses, and with lighted lamps, Salerno is truly
marvellous. An effective comedy setting is given to
his work by the antics of an assistant. Other per-
formers relying for success on their dexterity and
nerve are Ancion, a lady-trapezist, whose feats of
balance establish a record in that line of business;
Arras and Alice, who contribute a very success-
ful mixed turn; and the Ferraris, graceful and
agile dancers. The best musical turn is con-
tributed by the Tobins; but, on the whole, the
Palace programme is rather athletic than musical.
Bicycle trick-riding has been done to death in
Australia, but the St. Onge Bros, contrive to
make their cycle skill interesting in a “knock-
about ” turn, which is genuinely funny. Excellent
items are contributed by Flatt and Sutherland,
Mr. Austin Melford, and Madame Adele. Some
of the other items might be retrenched with ad-
vantage from the very long programme, and still
leave a sulendid night’s entertainment.
** * *
“ The Span of Life,” revived on Saturday
at Sydney Lyceum, is a drama which is at its best
in the middle and tapers off somewhat at each
end. Every act forms a little play in itself, and
the sins committed in Act I. are not much noticed
in Acts 11. and 111. In Act 1., for instance,
Arthur Styan, as a large, slow, unctuous villain,
Eoisons his brother with morphia injected into a
unch of grapes, but Styan’s young-looking
Ma in Act 11. refers to the matter merely
in order to get the poisoner to give up
her ward’s money. She seems to regard
the blotting-out of that small boy as rather
a useful circumstance on the whole. Miss Frances
Ross, as Kate Heathcote, reviles Styan for his
general villainy, and then receives her fortune of
£3OOO from that personage in a packet which she
doesn’t attempt to open, and she never counts the
money at all. It might be a packet of washing-
bill receipts for all she knows, but she merely
smiles a delighted smile and remarks that it will
be a good thing to take the money right away to
Mr. Baker, who is employed partly in keep-
ing a lighthouse and partly in having bad dreams.
Villain Styan comes along to the lighthouse dis-
guised in oilskins, and the well-known sensational
scene follows where a vessel gleaming with lights
struggles along a dusky sea, while Baker furiously
rings the fog-bell up aloft. Meanwhile Styan
bangs at him with a gun below. This scene is on
the boards quite a time. In the next act, Baker
and Miss Ross and the smallest stage-child on
record live a melodramatic life in Africa, being
occasionally stolen by hordes of Arabs, dressed in
loose white wrappers and curses and absurd shoes.
As these gentry insist on fighting in gar-
ments which are long and floppy, they lose all
their prisoners except Baker. The others escape
by way of the Horley Bros, whose faculty
for making themselves into bridges or other
forms of architecture at a moment’s notice is use-
ful in mountainous regions. In Act IV. Styan is
suddenly overwhelmed with the remembrances of
crimes committed in the previous acts. He is
also overwhelmed by a policeman, which is more
to the point; also, Baker turns up, and all ends
in peace.
* * * 9
When a drama rests its humor on Mr. and
Mrs. Bland Holt, it stands upon a sure founda-
tion, which will not fail it even in the hour
when the most ridiculous brown Mohammedan
is pursuing the hero in a long-tailed garment
through the desert. Miss Frances Ross is not a
realistically melancholy widow in Act IV., but is
interesting in the lighter parts. A specially good
character sketch is that of Joshua Gurnet, the
bibulous lighthouse-keeper; while Styan, in his
unctuous moments, is interesting and not over-
drawn. Some ten or twelve girls dance Arabian
dances in the recesses of the African wilds, where
the Arabs somehow or other manage to sport
spotless wrappers every day. The scenery may
also be highly commended.
** * *
The interruption of “ Ben Hur,” first by
plague and then by fire, inspires one section of
the community to make the usual reflections on
Divine wrath, though the “Sign of the Cross,”
rabidly blasphemous and sensual as it was, laked
in the shekels and escaped misfortune completely.
Two hysterical outbursts that occurred during
“Ben Hur” performances are now being hailed
as prophecies. During the leprosy scene a stalls-
wailed for home and mothah, and on another
occasion a d.c. dame arose suddenly and cursed
the drama, hoping it would come to a bad end.
Her escort muffled her in her opera-cloak and led
her out. But the bad end came all right.
** * *
Marie Narelle’s farewell in song was made
to the full of the Town Hall. Audience so packed
you couldn’t put a tuning-fork between the units.
The soprano, who has a most “takin’way wid
’er,” contributed “For the Sake of the Past”
with such pathos and fervor that the great audi-
ence felt that Miss Narelle had years ago broken its
collective heart, but that now, for the sake of her
song, it would forgive her. Other of her songs
were “The Wearin’ of the Green,” a regular
emerald-gem of a song, and sung by Miss Narelle
like a Fenian angel ; “ Ever to Thee,’’and Tosti’s
“ Good-bye.” She farewelled in an olive-green
velvet robe. Miss Maud Dalrymple, the con-
tralto of the forthcoming Amy Castles concerts,
is something very extra-special-looking in singers
—a bella-donna damsel, tall and dark, with a
Frenchily pretty face. She sang in a white gown
and the darkest of dark-red roses. Her voice is of
a fine rich quality, with muscat grapes, pineapple
and cloves m it. Mr. Rodda Perry went to sleep
during his two songs, woke up to take his encores,
and promptly fell asleep again during the singing
of them. He has such a nice voice and such a
clear enunciation, and if he would only rouse up
and not help to lengthen the programme by
taking all the encores ! Mr. W. A. Walsh made
quite a success of his comic recitations—how all
the soggarths present laughed and rolled in their
chairs! And how the audience shrieked over
“ How M‘Dougall topped the score” !
** * *
Fitzgerald’s circus has been crowded to
its tent doors these last few days, and the per-
forming dogs and flying Moultons, with other
distinguished animal and human characters, have
kept well up to their usual level. The ride of the
lion on the elephant is always prefaced by a
cheerful remark from the manager warning people
to keep away from the cage as this is the animal
which escaped at Broken Hill and nearly ate sundry
mines and smelters before it was captured ; alter
which Lizzie and her rider perform their few tricks.
The lion humorously adds a few ideas of his own,
such as snapping at non-existent flies, and pro-
fessing to pursue mosquitoes, as ne may have
done in stormier days in Africa. He gags well,
but his expression indicates, as he goes round on
top of the elephant ana the bicycle, that to him
all these things are vanity, and for the sake of his
dignified weariness the name of that lion ought
to be Solomon.
** * *
Sydney Empire rested awhile from
“Sapho,”and produced a “sacred concert” on
Good Friday night, but the gallery, intoxicated
with Hot Cross Bun, refused to take the affair in
a serious spirit. The entertainment concluded
with somebody stopping short in his rendering of
“ My Pretty Jane ” to reprove a light-minded
section of the gallery for “ not letting a man earn
his xiving.” This scrihe nas heard many worse
renderings of the ditty in question, but the theory
that a man should be allowed to mangle his top-
note because he has a family to support should
not hold good. The public must, in some cases,
be studied in preference to the individual.
** * *
The Empire, after a brief interval for
its alleged sacred concert, resumed its struggle
with “Sapho,” introducing a brilliant new
effect in the great staircase scene when the
frivolous person and the gentleman carrying
her rolled down the steps together. Whether
this was an accident, or an effect carefully
planned out by the wily Cosgrove to sub-
stantiate Sapho’s claim to be a purely
humorous female, or whether it was meant
to illustrate her moral fall, will always re-
main a mystery. Cosgrove is the personage who
undertook to explain the pictures at a Cinemato-
graph Show the other day, and had just remarked
that Lord Roberts would be shown reading des-
patches when the limelight flashed on the sheet the
picture of a lively rainbow-skirt dancer. Cosgrove
waited till the excitement had subsided. “ Ladies
and gentlemen,” he said, severely, “ Lord Roberts
is fined half-a-quid for missing his cue.” Then
everybody said it was done on purpose.
** * *
A change of programme at Sydney Tivoli
last Saturday not only introduced many new
players to the public, but gave the entertainment
a distinctly new character. “ Loud” humor was
represented only in a microscopic quantity, and
most of the “turns” relied for success purely on
great musical or histrionic ability. The item 8
contributed by Madame Lydia Yeamans-Titus
and by the Jackson Family were typical of the
new order of things—Madame Titus, a very clever
actress and a sweet singer ; the Jackson Family of
four showing their skill with mandolines, guitars,
and various reed instruments. After these, the
most popular turn was that of Prof. Davy and his
marionettes. It would seem to be rather late in
the day for a revival of marionettes, but Mr.
Davy puts so much humor into the antics of his
lay figures as to make them genuinely amusing.
Besides, marionettes can do “knock-about busi-
ness ” in a fashion which no human beings could
undertake and live, and there is always something
very attractive to humahity in seeing even
images of itself bombarded with bricks and
smashed with palings. One of the secrets of the
success of Puritanism in England was that
its programme included a joyful smash-up of
.images. For that bribe the people were willing
to give up for a time even their pet vices. The
comic singers at the Tivoli now include Weston
and Yost (alas!), Ned Bluett and Dan Conroy—
the last two securing their laughs by fairly legiti-
mate means, though there still hovers about the
programme a little of the doubtful “ joke.” That
seems to be an invariable smudge on a certain
type of music-hall comic singers.
Melbourne Bijou was not half big enough
for the crowd that rushed “The Wrong Mr.
Wright” last Saturday. The soft answer which
tumeth away money began to issue from the pay-
boxes half-an-hour ere the orchestra tuned up, so
Melbourne evidently has renewed its appetite for
farcical comedy of the Broadhurst type. ‘ ‘ Wrong
Mr. Wright,” by the author of “Jones” and
“ Smith,” is rather more of a comedy and less of a
farce than those previous studies in American
hurricane humor. It is mainly the tale of a
highly-fascinating spinster and a meaty, bald-
headed multi-millionaire, whose hard bachelor
principles melt in the sunshine of her smile vvhat
time the lovely creature is mistaking his identity.
Singleton Sites, the stout person stuffed with
dollars, has been robbed of 50,000 of them by his
chief cashier. The cashier, who doesn’t person-
ally appear in the piece, is an awful ex-
ample of man’s ingratitude to his employer.
When his salary was raised from 10fr to
12 dollars per week he abandoned himself to
expensive courses, and eventually he shook the
till as stated. Therefore Sites, being a consci-
entious capitalist, possessing a proper sense of an
employer’s duty to society, puts the matter in the
hands of the police, and also decides to chase the
criminal himself and win his own 5000 dollars
which he has offered for the capture of the fugitive.
The trouble starts at this point. Sites takes the
name of Wright for private - inquiry purposes.
The police having notified their lady detective
that the missing cashier took the name of Wright,
she fascinates the bloated capitalist until at length
she wishes he wasn’t the criminal, whom he isn’t,
and by the time she regretfully gives the
wrong Wright into custody he has got his identity
so mixed that his relatives disown him, and chaos
reigns for five minutes. Then the misunder-
standing is cleared up by telegram, and the
billionaire surrenders unconditionally to the angel
’tec because she had wooed him for himself alone
—or, rather, for a mere 5000 dollars reward —
instead of laying siege to his vast property.
“Wrong Mr. Wright” is full of smart lines, not
too smart to be appreciated by the g.p.; its minor
characters and complications are amusing, and
the performance (it was very successful on Satur-
day nignt) will gain a lot from the experience and
confidence of the co. as the season advances.
• * * •
George Willoughby, in the difficult name-
part, is a virile, emphatic millionaire, who always
carries the joke along, but sometimes carries it
out of the right course. On Saturday he didn’t
take himself seriously enough, considering that he
was required to show cause for Miss Roxy Bar-
ton’s affectionate tendencies. This was most
noticeable in a wildly-farcical duel at the
beginning of the third act, which is too
absurd an incident to be funny, and should be
cut as short as possible. The lady ’tec is the
prettiest tning Miss Roxy Barton has done thus-
far, though her attempt to seem ashamed of her-
self at the finish is only half-hearted. Miss Hope
Mayne gives valuable assistance as a pretty niece,
and Miss Minnie Ascoli is another nice girl who
fills her place gracefully. Tom Cannam, one of
the early comedians of the Brough and Bouci-
cault co., reappears at the old spot in his old
capacity of a harmless idiot—much the same
amusing Cannam as he was ten years ago. Miss
Roland Watts-Phillips, Frank Denton, and Geo.
Leopold are quite satisfactory, whereas Edwin
Lester is rather otherwise. The scenery and
general fixings of the show are everything that
was expected of a management which took over
the business from Charles Arnold.
*m * *
At the Princess’s, on Saturday, the Broughs
started their farewell season with a happy and
prosperous revival of “The Amazons,” Pinero’s
charming romance of three sisters in knicker-
bockers. Everybody is supposed to know this un-
conventional comedy, but, as a matter of fact,
“The Amazons” has been less seen than talked
about, and if manager Brough cared to run the
sweet little fiction for a second and third week, he
would probably find it going very strong in the
last lap. The present revival introduces Brough
as the comparatively serious man, who makes love
to the tallest sister, and Leslie Victor as
a bright new edition of the French count,
formerly played by Boucicault. Cecil Ward,
Mrs. Brough, and Miss Brenda Gibson take
their original parts, whilst Miss Temple sports
the knickers of a different sister from the one
she impersonated aforetime. Mrs. Brough is a
very slim and quiet-looking Lady Noel nowadays,
but Miss Gibson, the pugnacious “Tommy” of
the trio, seems a little rounder and more forcible
than the damsel who used to smack Cecil Ward on
the back when he was eight years younger than
he is now. Time has. not dealt artistically with
Cecil’s performance of Galfred, Earl of Tween-
wayes. That tottering relic of an ancient race has
developed into an elderly caricature of his original
self. The actor’s buffoonery is undeniably droll, but
the people who laugh loudest at it have evidently
got the least thought for the satirical humor of
the author’s conception. The diseased Tween wayes,
as Pinero drew him, was a slightly exaggerated
truth, not a distorted jest. Miss Susie Vaughan,
the strong-minded Countess in this revival, would
make the situation look probable but for the
absurd presence of “Tommy’s” suitor. No
matter. The Brough programme for next Satur-
day (sth) will be “Sweet and Twenty,” preceded
by “In Honor Bound.”
** * #
The Easter bill at Melb. Opera House was
calculated to catch the town and country vote.
The club-jugglers are still there, likewise Murphy
and Mack, and the 10 enthusiastic exponents of
woman’s lovely inability to aim straight. New
arrivals are Denis Carney, who gambols on stilts,
and a pleasing American boxer, who punches a
ball rhythmically and spells his name with a
hyphen in deference to the demands of polite
vaudeville. The Bulletin admires the cham-
pion ball-bunching of Mr. Charles Brown-
Parker, but deplores the hyphen, because
it looks like a weak spot in his constitution.
The Permans are three welcome relatives, and the
return of Galla.ndo affords gratifying evidence of
new lung-power in that industrious clay modeller
—Gallando’s previous light soprano squeak is
in a fair way to deepen anon into a gentle
baritone. Lastly, the name of Lotty must be
mentioned. Mdlle. Lotty came to light for the
first time in Melbourne last Saturday, and the
attendant genius of the lamp clothed the lady
with many colors, which was an enviable pro-
ceeding on his part.
At Melb. Her Majesty’s the seventh week of
“A Runaway Girl” finds that cheerful musical
narrative in good going order. Florence Young has
been supplied with a new occasion for her esti-
mable top note, and she now warbles “Beautiful
Venice” by general desire, or in response to
numerous requests. Meanwhile the “pickaninny”
business of Lauri and Carrie Moore is losing its
early freshness, and it never was very fresh. The
Carrie-Lauri energies might as well be devoted to
a whiter and a brighter “ turn.”
#* m #
“ The Night Birds of London ” continues
to supply a want at Melbourne Royal. Every
night at about the same time as before Miss
Duggan falls fainting in the dust outside Covent
Garden Theatre, and is conveyed away to the home
of the red-robed barmaid, where the mad lady in
pink extinguishes the eyesight of Geo. P. Carey.
After which the plans of the transgressors are
blown to pieces, and one of the human fragments
restores Inman’s lost innocence by dying on a
stretcher. “The Night Birds” is a liberally-
mounted entertainment, and deserves to conclude
with a patriotic chorus or a second instalment of
ballet.
** * *
Three appearances of Mr. Bernard Wal-
ther and Co., firstly at the Athenseum Hall and
afterwards at the Town Hall, were not a marked
musical success, but the little travelling show had
one interesting feature. Sandwiched between the
passable violin playings of long-haired Mr.
Walther and the respectable vocal efforts of hand-
some Madame Lillian came Cyrus Brownlee New-
ton, an elderly American reciter with a droll
sidlong gait, a large humorous smile, and a ripe
old voice of the kind that gives double meaning
to the commonest noun and extra vitality to an
active verb. Cyrus breaks the first rule of verse
recitation by pausing long and earnestly at the
end of every line, yet he can be pathetic or thrill-
ing in pieces not painfully familiar to Australian
audiences.
w m *• *
Amy Castles, a young Australian soprano,
whose name has been its own advertisement since
the time —three years ago—when she burst forth
as a coming Melba, likewise a future Tietjens and
an immediate Boom, is now back again in Mel-
bourne, as every newspaper reader knows. She
returned last week under engagement to manager
Williamson, and will be welcomed by the Mayor
this (Thursday) afternoon. On Tuesday, Thurs-
day and Saturday next Miss Castles will appear
at Melbourne Town Hall in the first three con-
certs—but only in one concert at a time—of her
Australian tour. The co. engaged to support the
prima-donna includes Dani, late of the Italian
Opera Co., together with Amandio, the clever
young flautist, Miss Una Bourne, whose piano
playing ought to earn a mayoral reception for her
one day, and Miss Maud Dalrymple, contralto.
Prices 6, 4 and 2 have been decided upon by the
management “after careful consideration,” says
tne advt.
At Poverty Point.
It will always be an open question as to whether poor
Sallie Booth and Ada Lee died of plague ordinary, or of
plague sickness intensified by the shocking publicity
of their removal from the Criterion Hotel. Their last
appearance in public must have been a terrible ordeal to
the unfortunate actresses.
Goes without saying that the burnt-out orchestra of
Her Majesty’s, Sydney, took prompt action towards com-
pensating themselves for the loss of their instruments and
billets. The day after the fire they were arranging a
benefit concert and figuring out their respective claims on
the proceeds. “ How like a band !” as the Duchess of
Plaza Toro would remark. The band never fails to make
the best of a painful situation.
“Cleo”: Talking of Dartrey, the capable actor lately
with the Broughs, nothing he ever did was better than
his Algy Portman, the wooden-headed society-husband of
the smart young married woman, in a “ A Man of Forty.”
He was the ideal of a fatuous, hen-pecked, impecunious
younger brother, the sort of man we sometimes, but
rarely, see in Australia, just off a mail-steamer, or as a
casual aide or private sec. He had no ideas and no con-
versation, and yet his stereotyped exclamations, “ Pull
his leg,” “ Weird old girl,” “ Great Scot! ” were so
stamped with realism that they remain in the memory
while the rest of the play is forgotten. His touch of
romance, too—“ What price my lost ideals?” How
charmingly he did it all 1
Mrs. Pat. Campbell is likely to come to Australia, in
which case she will introduce a real Magda to the notice
of a public that has only seen Nance O’Neil in the part.
It will be a lesson in the difference between mind and
matter.
An Australian admirer of Nance O’Neil, who used to
boast that he went 40 times to see her act, and paid for
his seat every time, lately wrote (from London) to a
Bulletin man in Sydney, stating that he was a Nanceo-
lator no longer. He had seen Mrs. Pat Campbell as
Magda, and the subtle emotionalism of the thin woman
set him wondering that he was ever able to take rampa-
geous Nance seriously.
Advance • agent Jones pitches a picturesque story of
how the performing lion escaped from Fitzgerald’s Circus
at Broken Hill. The yarn has been growing and growing
with every recital, until Jones can’t distinguish the plain
facts from the picturesque embellishments. He seems,
however, to be positively fixed re certain details, such as
Miss Rhodesia’s exclamatory addresses to Providence,
which she delivered at short intervals, with her clasped
hands pointing downwards, as though Providence were
located in the Other Place. Another unvarying item is
the incidental narrative of Jandaschevsky and the pistol.
Janda&c. was seized with an inspiration when he saw the
loose lion perched on an eminence, gazing at the conster-
nation it had wrought. He fired off a huge circus-pistol
for the purpose of scaring the noble animal back into
captivity. Whereupon Zapf, the trainer, turned scorn-
fully upon his excited colleague and said, “ What’s der
goot of doing dat ? Der lion fires off pistols himself ven
he is performing.” Then it dawned upon Janda&c. that
firearms loaded with blank cartridge were powerless to
terrify a lion who had been long accustomed to pulling a
trigger on his own.


stocks Kept <->r iam .
RAND ROCK DRILLS & AIR COMPRESSORS
by the sole agents—
N. GUTHRIDGE, LTD., 71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
And at 486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE ; WELLINGTON, N.Z.;
214 HIGH STREET, FREMANTLE ; KALCOORLIE.
dfg
XRA.MWA.YS. XRAMWAYA
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Prop. Ltd.
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
representing ORENSTEIN & KOPPEL LTD., of LONDON and BERLIN
Equip Complete TRAMWAYS and supply Every Description of Tramway Material
ID* - Locomotives from 10 to 250 h.p. -»§ J
STOCKS IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE include Rails and Accessories Steel Sleenera
Turntables, Switches, Side Tipping Trucks, Steel Wheels, &e. TechnicaladviceeraDi?ton«?i
rendered Flying and Permanent Surveys arranged. Illustrated Oatalogues S and Phot/
i graphic Albums showing Tramways constructed in different parts of the Wnrlrl
apphcatlon ' A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manage?.
CYANIDE'
GUARANTEED
08/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Arsenic, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
' Naptha, Benzine and Blasting; Charges.
Hy. tyarkwald,
178 William-straab,
MUfiBOURtfR ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney ; GS Currie-st. * Adel.; 21 Eagle-street,
Brisb. ; and at Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellington, anti
Auckland, HZ.
The Wild Cat Column.
Howard Smith 00. Limited (Melbourne) pub-
lishes its first balance-sheet—an eminently prosperous
one, covering- a period of eight months to 31st December,
19)1. The new concern started with a deficit of £40,000
in its tangible assets, that amount having been paid for
the business of the old private co. of Howard Smith and
Sons. Disregarding this item, according to Thb Bulle-
tin’s usual custom, the figures show as follows:
Deficit
Depreci- (Goodwill,
Profits. Dividends. ation £4o,ooonot
written reckoned
off. an asset).
1900 £40,000
1901 £57,734 ord' 10 pc.} £18,782 £20 ’ 668 21,716
The co. writes £2OOO off goodwill, reducing the paper
asset to £38,000, and carries forward £16,284 of undivided
profits, which is the same thing as the above, only
differently expressed. Seeing that it recognises the
necessity of extinguishing the goodwill item, it is a pity
it didn’t devote at least £lO,OOO to this purpose, for the
paper asset can’t be extinguished too soon. If the new
co. keeps on as it has begun, it has a great career before
it.
* » * *
The City Mutual Life Assurance Society
(Sydney) concluded, in its own small, unobtrusive way, a
rather good year on 31st December, 1901 :
_ , . Added
Premiums. Interest, t' I ®™. Expenses. to
Income. r Funds.
1892 .. £25,221 £6,519 £31,740 £7,717 £17,216
1893 .. 26,001 6,576 32,576 8,939 10,021
1894 .. 27,775 6,243 34,018 11,843 13,140
1895 .. 29,179 7,670 36,849 10,697 11,078
1896 .. 31,859 7,431 39,290 9,900 13,318
1897 .. 32,845 8,384 41,229 9,422 19,201
1898 .. 36,889 8,935 45,824 10,396 12,726
1899 .. 40,465 9,610 50,075 11,023 14,440
1900 .. 49,637 10,403 60,040 16,265 18,298
1901 .. 50,670 11,516 62,186 15,997 24,338
The year just closed shows the largest income and the
largest addition to the funds up to date. During the last
ten years £153,776 have been added to the assurance
fund, raising it from £80,226 at the beginning of 1892 to
£234,002 at the close of 1901. This is slow but respectable
progress. The expense rate shows a slight diminution as
compared with the extravagant rate of 1900, but it is still
unjustifiably heavy. These are the ratios :
Expenses as compared with Total Income.
1892 £24 6 3 per cent. 1897 £22 17' 0 per cent.
1893 27 8 9 „ 1898 22 13 9 „
1894 34 16 3 „ 1899 22 0 3 „
1895 29 0 7 „ 1900 27 110 „
1896 25 311 „ 1901 25 14 6 „
It is new business that costs most, but these rates would
be high even for an office which did a very large new
business. For one which makes it a special boast that it
has never “ joined in the scramble for new business ”
they seem most exorbitant.
The City Mutual, on the other hand, appears to
have rather good fortune in the matter of its investments.
Last year the interest earned represented £5 3s. lOd. per
cent, per annum on the average funds of the year, as
against £5 3s. 9d. per cent, during 1900. This is a
very handsome rate—the highest in Australasia, and does
something to make up for the heavy cost of management.
But the high interest rate appears to be accompanied
by a necessity for making unusually large provision for
losses, or else the management is more cautious than the
average. During the past seven years £12,434 have been
so appropriated—a large amount considering the size of
the institution, and if this is set against the interest
earnings, then these are nothing above the average. As
regards that always dubious and wholly non-interest-
bearing asset, “ Deferred instalments of annual pre-
miums,” the City Mutual appears to adopt a painfully
weak and undecided course. This shadowy asset stood
at £7142 in 1898. It was then announced that no further
additions would be made to it, and that it would be
gradually written off, and in 1899 it was written down to
£6785. Then the management went back on its good
resolution, and in 1900 this questionable asset appeared
as £11,036, so £4251 of the £18,298 added to the funds
that year really consisted of no visible assets—only
“ deferred instalments.” In 1901 the management so far
thought better of the matter as to make no additions to
this item. What it will do in 1902 is a mystery, as it
seems to have no definite policv whatever in this connec-
tion.
Taking one thing with another, the City
Mutual is a reasonably sound little office, much too
expensively-managed, but otherwise well-conducted on
the whole; not violently progressive, and suffering a good
deal from the fact that it was born late in a country
where life assurance offices were already too numerous.
Its assets look good, always excepting the disputed
question of “ deferred instalments,” and the year just
closed has been a better one than the average in many
respects.
• * * »
The Citizens’ Life Assurance Co. (Sydney)
publishes a balance-sheet for 1901 which, so far as the
mere expansion of the co. is concerned, is far ahead of
anything which it has hitherto accomplished. Taking
its Ordinary Life Department first, results are as follows :
Citizens’ Ordinary Life Department.
Interest, Total Claims, Added
Premiums. Fees, &c. Income. Expenses. to
&c. Funds.
1892 .. £15,157 £484 £15,641 £4454 £11,187
1893 .. 19,232 1256 20,488 5852 14,636
1894 .. 28,692 2388 31,080 12,872 18,208
1895 .. 40,816 3274 44,090 17,663 26,427
1896 .. 50,913 4570 55,483 24,423 31,060
1897 .. 64,670 5342 70,012 25,305 44,707
1898 .. 88,308 9954 98,262 39,385 58,877
1899 .. 115,395 9446 124,841 41,377 83,464
1900 .. 131,871 13,660 145,531 59,143 86,388
1901 .. 150,956 17,564 168,520 60,866 107,654
This is remarkably rapid growth. On Ist January, 1892,
the funds of the Citizens’ Ordinary Life Department
were £8993. They are now £491,601, an increase of
£482,608 in ten years. The expenses represent about
£l5 15s. 6d. per cent, on total income. This is a very low
rate, but the Industrial Department is made to carry such
a large proportion of the expenses that the Ordinary
branch is able to pose as one of the most cheaply-
managed concerns in Australasia without it necessarily
following that any real economy of management is
effected. And even with this device the expenses are
higher than in the A.M.P. Society or the Maoriland
Government Insurance office. The interest earned during
1901 was at the rate of £4 os. 2d. per cent, per annum on
the average funds as compared with an exactly similar
figure in 1900, and with £3l3s. lOd. per cent, in 1899. This
is a very low figure—about the poorest on the Australa-
sian record. The position may be owing to the fact
that the big office building represents an absurdly large
proportion of the assets, but if this explanation wasn’t
available it would certainly look as if the assets wanted '
writing down considerably. The Citizens’ bases its
estimates on the assumption that its assets will yield 3J
per cent, all round, and the margin of 10s. 2d. per cent,
between the assumption and the reality is very narrow.
Under these circumstances it is proposed to pay no bonus
this year, and to devote the surplus to reducing the
assumed interest to 3 ; per cent. But even when this is
done the margin of security between interest assumed to
be earned and interest actually earned will be less than
in one or two other offices.
The progress of the Industrial Life Department
—the Id. and 2d. and 3d. a week concern, in which foolish
people pay a vast amount more than they could get the
same benefit for in the Savings’ Bank —is as follows :
Citizens’ Industrial Life Department.
Claims and Added
Total Deprecia- Total t
Income, tion of Ex P ense9 - Outgoings. p un( j s
Assets.
1892.. £109,688 £11,608 £73,619 £85,227 £24,459
1893.. 112,957 24,532 66,662 91,194 21,763
1894.. 126,998 39,024 77,914 116,938 10,060
1895.. 133,404 51,135 71,766 122,901 10,503
1896.. 146,647 60,362 74,630 134,992 11,655
1897.. 156,144 72,022 83,955 155,977 167
1898.. 156,494 51,751 78,710 130,461 26,033
1899.. 165,514 53,268 92,968 146,236 19,278
1900.. 176,406 49,626 98,681 148,307 28,099
1901.. 184,112 43,691 99,756 143,447 40,665
The funds of the Citizens’ Industrial Department grow
slowly by comparison with those of the Ordinary branch.
At Ist January, 1892, they were £106,165. During 10
years £192,682 have been added, so the total funds of the
Industrial Department are now £298,847. The expense
rate has declined a little of late, but it is still extravagantly
high. The ratios are as follows
Industrial Department—Expenses compared with
total Income.
1892 .. £67 2 4 per cent. 1897 .. £53 15 4 percent.
1893 .. 59 0 4 „ 1898 .. 50 611 „
1894 .. 61 7 0 „ 1899 .. 56 3 5 ~
1895 .. 53 16 11 „ 1900 .. 55 18 9 ~
1896 .. 50 17 10 „ 1901 .. 54 3 8 „
The expense rate of a life office should decrease as the
institution grows, but in the Citizens’ the tendency, if
three-year periods are dealt with, is rather the other way.
Certainly the expense rate of its Industrial Department
during the last three years (1899-1900-01) has been heavier
than during the three previous ones (1896-7-8). Possibly
this arises from the fact that the Ordinary Department is
growing larger, and as its expenses are supposed to be
limited to 15 per cent., the Industrial Branch must carry
the balance. When the Industrial end of the show was
seven times larger than the Ordinary, the burden might
not matter much, but now they are about equal in size,
and things are possibly becoming different. It is impos-
sible to comment fully, as The Bulletin did last year, on
the absurd way the expenses are divided, for the co. cuts
off criticism at the meter this year by not giving complete
details of the Ordinary Department’s expenditure. Bub
taking the items, printing, stamps, medical fees, inspec-
tion, directors’ and auditors’ fees, taxes, travelling
expenses, salaries, advertising and sundries, and wear and
tear of furniture, the Industrial Department pays
£45,849 under these heads, while the Ordinary Life
Department, which has far the larger funds of the two,
and almost as large an income, pays £8589. This is one
way of keeping down the expenses of the Ordinary
Branch. And with it all, they have increased to nearly
16 per cent.—this despite the alleged understanding that
they are limited to 15 per cent.
In the Industrial Branch every person who pays
Is. for life assurance gets about 5Jd. worth of life assur-
ance, while the other 6)d. goes in expenses. Industrial
offices are mostly like this—or worse—and why any-
body is so foolish as to take an industrial policy while
there is a savings bank within easy distance passes com-
prehension. There are 726 people living on the Citizens’
office in one shape or another, which accounts for a whole
lot in the way of expenses. Also, there are the share-
holders in addition. These people have put £20,000 into
the concern-out of £790,000 of funds, £20,000 belong to
the shareholders and £770,000 to the policy-holders The
additional security supplied by that fragment of
capital isn t much. Yet the handful of shareholders
have sole control of the concern; they apparently
hold most of the good billets attached to theco., and
they have raised their dividend from 10 per cent, to 20
per cent. Hitherto they have charged their 10 per cent,
dividend (£2000) against the Industrial Branch only, but
in 1901 they appear to have taken a separate 10 per cent,
dividend out of each branch. This looks tolerably rapa-
cious on their part. Still, there is no reason that this
writer is aware of why they shouldn’t help themselves to
a 30 per cent, dividend next year.
Comparing the Citizens’ Ordinary Life Branch
with the A.M.P., or the Maoriland Government Life In-
surance Office, the position is thus : The Citizens’ ex-
penses are higher, which must mean less profits for policy-
holders. Its interest earnings are lower, which, again
must mean less profits for policy-holders. And there is
no control by policy-holders as in the A.M.P.’s case, or
State guarantee and State audit as in the case of the M L
Government Insurance Office. A private life office owned
by a comparatively small body of shareholders, who, to
a great extent, run the concern themselves, meet
annually to decide that their management is quite
satisfactory, and are audited by officials of their own
selection, affords room for a great deal of faith on some-
body’s part.
• • • •
The Mutual Store, Limited (Melbourne) makes a
little progress, but things are rather gradual with this
concern at present:
r , Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
Tai y ’ ion? £ o 5 8 ' P er cent - = £1875 £6844
Jan., 1901 2448 3 6s. Bd. __ 1875 7417
July, 1901 2062 3 6s. Bd. ” 7^
Jan., 1902 2083 3 6s. Bd. ~ t 9 1875 7812
Tho P ro f f Css f ia not rapid, but it appears to be steady.
The best feature of the case is that the Mutual Store is at
last beginning to make some little progress at shifting its
prinmpal burden—the mortgage on the huge building it
fhol? 1 I ed m da -7 9 when buildings were more valuable than
they are now. If this burden can he cleared off and the
interest biH saved, the Store should be a profitable con-'
cern. Also by some recent arrangements a considerable
f a TJ‘i? ln ! nter , est 18 ejected. The recent progress of the
liabilities has been as follows :
Owing on Mortgage Interest paid
t,_i_ an d Overdraft. during j-year.
July, 1900 £64,713 .. £1872
January, 1901 .. 69,047 .. 1925
July, 1901 .. 73101 .. 1924
January, 1902 .. 72,853 .. 1707
w S O -! 0 " effected in the liability is a very small one,
but still it rs a move in the right direction. The
only visiWe drawback is that the sales (£73,517) are
slightly less than in any of the previous three half-
years.
* * * *
Application was made to the Court the other
day for an order to wind up A. Shadier and 00. (Sydney)
that, tempestuous bakery and restaurant business wherein
the shareholders lost their whole capital inside, a year
without getting even the most distant view of a dividend’
Not only are the shareholders left, but it was sorrow-
fully remarked that unless a good sale was effected
the unsecured creditors might get nothing also. On
this painful understanding it was decided to hang the
I IP ln a cool place while an attempt was made to
sell the sorrowful concern.
* * • •
Mort’s Dock and Engineering Co., Limited
(Sydney) had a prosperous half-year up to the end of 1901
At the same time it may fairly be remarked that this co’s
method of presenting its accounts is obscure and to the
last degree aggravating. In December, 1899, it had £lB 491
reserves. It then carried £3OOO to reserves, but next
balance-sheet (June, 1900) showed reserves as £21,715, an
increase of £3224. At June, 1900, it carried £l5OO to
reserves, yet December, 1900, showed an increase not of
£l5OO but of £3314, the reserves being then £25,029. This
perplexing co. carried £2500 to reserves at December,
1900, and they only increased by £1450 (to £26,479). At
June, 1901, it carried nothing to reserves, and the balance-
sheet for December, 1901, showed that they had increased
by £2695, and stood at £29,174. It may be that the
reserve fund and the depreciation fund (or one deprecia-
tion fund, for there is another, the amount of which
is deducted from the book value of the assets)
are mixed up together in some unaccountable fashion.
The following is the most intelligible statement of the
accounts that circumstances admit of:
Profits less
Apparent Dividends. Apparent
Depreciation. Reserves.
Dec., 1899 £8894 6 per cent. = £5872 £22,637
June, 1900 7727 6 „ „ 6000 24,364
Dec., 1900 10,307 6 „ „ 6000 28,671
June, 1901 4305 {Sj£” S}
Dec., 1901 8844 6 per cent. „ 6000 30,570
The Mort’s Dock and Engineering Co. has a very large
lawsuit in hand with the late contractors for its new dock
at Woolwich. As the Full Court has decided against the
co. on certain points of law, and these points have been
taken to the Privy Council, and the main body of the
suit has meanwhile been pursuing itself vigorously in the
local courts, somlthing pretty large and solid in the way
of law expenses should eventuate.
* • * •
The Assets Purchase and Realisation Co. of
Australasia (Melbourne) continues to illustrate the ill-
fortune which seems to attach to this class of business :
Outgoings.
_ ... , . Losses Aecumu-
T Gross Working orl late ,j
Income. Expenses. Propertieg . Loss .
August, 1896.. £11,336
February, 1897.. £4 £712 £3752 15,796
August, 1897.. 179 305 3 15,925
August, 1898.. 2 344 7295 23,562
February, 1899.. 10 240 2501 26,293
August, 1899.. 27 181 3 26,450
February, 1900.. 94 152 1 26,509
£13,339 capital forfeited and written off 13,170
August, 1900.. 259 306 13,217
February, 1901.. 14 246 2638 16,087
August, 1901.. 13 249 * - 16,323
February, 1902.. 108 212 16,427
The paid-up capital is £25,876, so £9149 is at least nomin-
ally intact. The earnings are better than the average,
but despite this improvement they don’t much more than
half cover the very moderate working expenses As
before, the largest asset is “ Interest under Will, £6028.”
This produces no revenue, but when Somebody dies
(presumably that is what is being waited for) and the
money is collected and invested where it will bear
interest, the proceeds should put the Assets Realisation
Co. in a position to pay working expenses, with enough
over for a per cent, dividend on the capital that
actually remains intact. The question is whether Some-
body shows any signs of dying or is in a beastly and
arrogant state of good health. If he is very healthy the
co. may die first.
* » * *
Royal Commission sitting to inquire into Syd-
ney’s water-supply will, seemingly, have to come to the
conclusion that it is the cost of pumping which is crush-
ing the present Water Board, and more pumps simply
mean more cost. The money for the now discredited
Prospect dam was borrowed, that for the proposed new
Bull’s Hill dam will have to be borrowed ; that for the
various pumping stations, and their machinery, has been
borrowed, and for new ones will be borrowed. The cost
of the Prospect reservoir, with its appurtenances, must
he written off some day as so much dead loss ; also, if the
Kenny Hill gravitation scheme is adopted, the pumping-
stations and machinery will be dead loss. If the Bull’s
Hill scheme is taken up now Sydney will in 10 or 20 years
outgrow it, when its cost, together with the money which
will meanwhile be spent on additional pumping machinery,
will also have to be written off, and the Kenny Hill, or
some other gravitation scheme, have to be adopted. On
the whole, the most truly economical plan would seem to
be to go for a gravitation scheme at once.
• » * •
The attempt to grab the Colo River, near Syd-
ney, as a means of producing electrical power for
“private enterprise” has repeatedly been made in
N.S.W., and always with same objection, that power-
rights worth possibly million s in money should be developed
by the State for the benefit of the State, instead of being
presented gratis to syndicators. The Bulletin learns
now, however, that behind the back of N.S.W. Parlia-
ment and in defiance of its opposition, a concession has
been granted to a syndicate—very political in its color
ing—to dam the waters of the 0010 for the generation of
electricity “to run a sawmill and for other purposes.”
On the strength of this concession the syndicate is now, it
is stated, doing the usual “ float ” in London, and talks of
supplying electric light and electric power not only to
city of Sydney but to Newcastle and other important
centres ! It professes to have authority from the Works
Dept., N.S.W., under the Water Rights Act, covering
this enterprise, though a N.S.W. Minister of the Crown
as recently as last session of Parliament stated that no
concession had been given to any syndicate or company
for any other purpose than to run a sawmill. Evidently
either the agreement entered into is so close a secret that
even members of Cabinet are ignorant of what was done
by the Governor in Council in 1899, or else strong reasons
exist for this lack of candor. In either event the denial
has a sinister significance.
As a matter of fact the syndicate claims to hold
rights to dam back the Colo River for 21 miles, and to
generate electricity for any purpose, the rights existing
for 28 years and being renewable on easy conditions. We
have not a copy of the prospectus—there is said to be
only one in existence—but our statements are those used
by the promoters in vending shares. As for getting any
information from the N.S. Wales Government, that seenis
to be hopeless, until Parliament demands full inquiry.
The syndicate has secured land at the mouth of the Colo
River, and the right to run its wires across private lands
as far as Hornsby Railway Station. From Hornsby it is
proposed to use the railway to carry the wires to the
metropolis. These purchases have not been very expen-
sive, the syndicate has only £12,500 nominal" capital
divided into 500 shares at £25, each of these shares to
count as 500 fully paid ups in the working co. when it is
floated. It is obvious therefore that tne syndicate has no
idea of developing its concession with its own money. Its
plan is the old familiar one of selling on the London
market at a big price that which it has got from N.S;W.
Government for nothing—or, at any rate, for no con-
sideration which so far appears in the accounts of the
State’s revenue.
The' electrical possibilities of the Colo River are
said to be enormous. For 50 miles there is a succession
of falls, and the power that can be generated is very great.
Further, it is about the only big source of water power
available near Sydney, and its monopoly by a foreign
syndicate will impose a crushing burden on the metropolis
of N.S.W. for ever. Parliament has before this expressed
an opinion adverse to the granting of any such rights as
the Colo River syndicate professes to have. It seems,
nevertheless, that a concession has been granted “ from the
back stairs.” As soon as Parliament meets the Govern-
ment should be forced—at the point of a censure motion
if necessary—to reveal the true nature of the contract
which has been entered into. If it is of the nature stated
by the syndicate promoters its prompt repudiation should
follow as a matter of course.
* * • »
“T.8.L.”: Either of the three Trustee co.’s you
mention is good.
* * • *
Cobar gold mines returns from battery and
cyanide last month totalled over £9OOO, more than half
of which should be profit. Co. ought to have sufficient
funds in hand for a substantial div.
* » » *
Mount Boppy, near Cobar (N.S.W.), running
its 40-head mill on dirt averaging about 12dwt., reported
that the lode is showing well in the bottom levels. The
Anglo-Australian people need something better than
even Boppy to compensate for the Gallymont, Gibraltar
and other failures.
♦** * *
Wyalong warden predicts that the yield from
that field this year will establish a record. Neeld’s mine
said to be looking remarkably well in the bottom level.
A local scribe says that free gold is showing in the sul-
phide “ the size of peas,” which must be a stretch of
“ poetic license.” The mine needs no exaggeration. It
would have been acquired long since by an English com-
pany had it not been for the efforts of the enthusiasts
who raised the municipal rating difficulty.
Electric traction is now installed underground
at the B.H. Prop. The first motor was let down in time
to take State Premier See and his Parliamentary friends
through the main drive. Since, last session, the Bill for
the renewal of the mining leases slipped through Parlia-
ment as if it were well-greased, the mining co’s. have no
end of a good opinion of this Government —and the
Premier was treated accordingly.
* * * •
Last year was the first since ’BB when the
N.S.W. coal output was worth more than the silver-lead
ditto. Return in £s from the ’99 decade (000 s left out):
Year. Silver. Goal. Gold. Copper. Tin. Coke.
1890 2762 1279 460 173 329 41
1891 3618 1742 559 205 271 34
1892 2476 1462 575 187 314 8
1893 3031 1171 651 58 229 20
1894 2289 1155 1156 73 187 33
1895 1642 1095 1315 140 138 24
1896 1784 1125 1073 200 102 21
1897 1697 1230 1121 300 70 45
1898 1722 1271 1244 280 60 64
1899 2168 1325 1751 399 98 77
1900 2787 1668 1194 425 142 109
1901 1950 2178 921 413 77 105
• * * *
The Palmer (N.Q.) warden in his annual report
mentions that Kyrle Bellew has not been able to float his
gold-mining co. m London, but still has hopes.
* * * *
Considering the handful of men employed-
under 400 at the beginning of the year—accidents have
been very numerous in the mines of Chillagoe (N.Q.)
district; and somebody ought to find out why.
* * * *
Chillagoe shareholders are told that debenture-
holders have no claim on the uncalled capital of the co.
This is meant as a consolation. The chances are that the
capital will be spent in developing the mines and that
they' will then fall into the hands of the mortgagees. As
the shares are subject to a liability they are not quoted
on the Stock Exchanges ; but shareholders can get over
this difficulty by paying up the balance, on which the
directors promise to allow 4 per cent, interest. This is a
smart move to gather the dollars. Capital will be paid on
a good parcel of shares, a “ bull ” movement will get them
at a premium, when the innocents will rush in with their
coin in the hope of participating in the rise.
• * * »
Mount Garnet collapse will be another hard
knock for speculators in copper shares. It was bad
enough when the manager had to report that the ore at
150 ft. level averaged only 8 to 3j percent, in bulk, but
worse still when he intimated that the ore-body. had
disappeared, metal-less calcite taking its place. There is
nothing so treacherous as a copper deposit in limestone
formation.
, * * * *
Queensland Mining Notes.—Croydon would like
a yard or two of rain ; ditto Mount Morgan, where they
have about four months’ supply. S. Glanmire and
Monkland, Gympie, crushed 1625 tons for 33400 z. ; 3s. div.
Shares jumped 10s. No. 2S. Gt. Eastern, 2177 tons for
28950 z. ; 6d. div. and 6d. bonus. Other Gympie shows
twittering feebly. Donnybrook, Ravenswood: 282
tons of stone and concentrates gave 14580 z., but it’s a
long time between drinks. Latest return from Wood-
lark : 407 tons for 185 oz. Manager states no real im-
provement can be reported. Tin show up Mt. Garnett
way floated, shareholders mostly about the neighbour-
hood. Big coal syndicate west o'f Rockhampton, over
subscribed. Various developments on Towers are
keeping the market very firm ; good crushings continue.
Brilliant Central gave 3s. div.; its reserve fund now
£lO,OOO.
* * * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “Option,”
Melbourne.*
* * » *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Tronlounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. _ Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts,nuts, forgings, andallsortsofiron-work.*
* ♦ » *
Assure, August, 1901: “At the end of last year
the Colonial Mutual had attained the age of 26J years ;
and it can point to a wonderful career of development and
expansion. During that period the company has issued
no less than 85,372 policies, assuring £26,085,346.”*
* * • •
Mr. A. Gilfillan, B.Sc., C.E. (Edin.), Mining
and Metallurgical Engineer, Stock Exchange Buildings,
Melbourne, is leaving for London about April next, for
the purpose of establishing a London office, and attending
to the flotation of approved mining and other proposi-
tions. Before leaving Mr. Gilfillan will visit the various
colonies for the purpose of inspecting any options which
may be offered. Correspondence invited from mine-
owners who have properties worth handling.*
• * * a
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
» a » a
See for yourself. The Australian Medical
Gazette of January, 1891, compares Zetz Spa to the cele-
brated Vichy waters of France, and states that it is
valuable for gout, rheumatism, gravel, catarrh of the
bladder, diabetes, dyspepsia, splenic and hepatic dis-
orders.
♦ * * •
Vanning Tables.—The very newest and what
gives exceedingly fair promise of superseding all other
tables is the machine known as the Wesley-Baird Vanning
Table. table is of South Australian invention, and
has given excellent results on Broken Hill ores and ores
containing pyrites, carbonate of copper and tin. Like all
tables, the best work is done on “ fines,” and more espe-
cially when the product is properly classified. The
Central Mining and Tramway Co., of 424 Little Collins-
street, Melbourne, and 40 Hunter-street, Sydney, are the
sole agents in the Eastern States. The table has a capa-
city up to 30 tons per day.*
* * • *
The Austral Otis Engineering Co.’s tender for
the supply of nearly a million arc lamps of Conradty’s
manufacture has been accepted by the City Council of
Melbourne. The same co. has also been entrusted with
the supply of the Launceston City Council’s requirements
of are lamp carbons.*
♦ * » «
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can be ob-
tained of Felton, Grim wade and Co., Melbourne, who
hatfe issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
minitrg requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.
• * • •
Westralia Mt. Morgans, which, a few months
ago, added a second 20-head of 12501 b. stamps to its
equipment, has now ordered a further 30 head of 15001 b.
stamps, the heaviest in the world. This will bring up the
battery to 70 stamps, and the capacity to 7000 tons of
about an ounce average. Property was' originally floated
in Bombay by A. E. Morgans, quondam Premier of W.A.,
but reverted to him ere co. reached div. stage, as the
Anglo-Indians, although strongly urged by Morgans to do
so, absolutely refused to provide necessary further funds.
Morgans then worked the show on his own, and finally,
in April, ’99, floated it in London with, a capital of
£125,000, of which he got £lOO,OOO ; 5000 shares were imme-
diately placed at £2 and 5000 subsequently at £5 each,
and provided £35,000 working capital; 15,000 shares are
held in reserve. Mine developed down to 400 ft. on under-
lay, and prospects continue very good. Average to date
is over l|oz. But it is doubtful if developments are suffi-
ciently forward to warrant increase in battery.
(Continued on page 25.)


PAVIP JONES* COMPANY
George and Barrack Streets, Sydney.
HIGH-CLASS HATTERS
Men’s
Black
Semi
Stiff
10/6
13/6
15/6
High
Grade
Selecting
Far Felt.
gd
fg
dfg
fd
fd
gfd
A RgVoUitiop jp Office Paste
You squeeze the Tube—the Brush will do the rest.
It’s the Quickest, Cleanest, Ev’ry way the best 1
There’s nothing 1 like it, seek where’er you will.
The Weis Brush Sticker pastes neatly and won’t spill.
STICKS
It’s just the thing for the Bank,
Business House, Kindergarten,
School and General Purposes.
QUICK
SOLD IN THREE SIZES—
-3d., 6d., ts.
ON SALE AT
Stationers, Storekeepers,
Druggists, Photo. Supply
Houses, or
Sole
Australasian
Ayents:
HARRINGTON & CO., Ltd.
66 King-street, Sydney and Brisbane
Agents CRAVEN & CO., 170 Collins-street, Melbourne; A. L. TILLY, 501 Hay-
street, I’erth ; P. ASH, Elizabeth-street, Hobart.
SOCIETY
LEROY
LIQUEUR
BRANDY
George Willoughby, who got his decree
nisi from charming little Ada by “ the skin of his
teeth,” was keenly alive to the humor of Judge
Simpson’s questionings. The learned Judge
adopted a quite paternal tone in his conversation
with the petitioner-told him that he had seen
him acting in Maoriland, and had also seen his
wife acting in George Musgrove’s panto. “She
is a very attractive woman on the stage,” said his
Honor, “is she—er—attractive off the stage?”
“Yes, I always found her so,” said husband
George. Then, to his astonishment, Judge
Simpson grew suddenly severe. “So you left
this young and attractive lady exposed to the
temptations,” &c., &c. His Honor’s manner
seemed to imply that he wouldn’t have torn
himself away from such an Ada on any account.
Which recalls the good, old story of Lady Randolph
Churchill and the blacksmith. The dainty Primrose
dame was canvassing the blacksmith’s vote for
her husband, but the horny-handed toiler was a
THE AUSTRALIAN ABROAD.
BARON SNIFFINSNUFFINGEN : “ Acn! you vos born in Ozdralia? Vell, you
spik Eengliesh ver' veil .”
sturdy Radical who didn’t believe in voting for “a
toff what does no work.” “But Lord Randolph
works very hard. He’s up at 7 o’clock every morn-
ing of his life.” “ ’Ow do you know ? ” growls the
unbeliever. “I ought to know, for I’m his wife,”
said Lady Churchill. “So you’re his wife,” said
the amorous blacksmith, gazing at the perfumed
vision with a profoundly undemocratic admiration,
“You’re his wife! Well, all I can say is that if I
was ’im I’d want to have brekfus’ in bed. Any-
way, I’ll vote for your man.”
The face that the one victim of the fire at
Her Majesty’s (Sydney) lost her life through going
back to rescue a small brooch recalls a Geelong
incident. A terrace of three two-storied houses
was burning, and a woman who had been carried
down from the middle building, on recovering
somewhat, was seen to make strenuous efforts to
get back into the house. She actually succeeded
in evading the relative who opposed her, and
rushed into the burning building. The crowd,
with a crowd’s romantic imagination, immediately
jumped to the conclusion that she had gone to
rescue her cheeild, and cheered wildly. There was
a trying wait of about two minutes ere the woman
reappeared, and this time the crowd nearly went
frantic with admiration and delight; The woman
carried something in her arms, but what the crowd
had taken for a baby was really a common band-
box containing the heroic creature’s newest and
most fashionable hat.
* * * ♦
Writes Yil. Dik :
Dear Bulletin,- -Some recent chloroform correspon-
dents rather get on the nerves of a person who has seen
anaesthetics administered. “ Investigalrix ”is barking
about the “mask.” Now, what does she mean? The
mask or “inhaler” (which she probably means) is abso-
lutely indispensable for ether administration, also for
nitrous-oxide gas, and a man who attempted to put a
piece of lint saturated with chloroform on a patient’s bare
face would simply scald the skin badly, and have the
patient fighting to get it off. I haven’t seen anything
mentioned about methylene as an ansesthetic ; this, a
mixture made, or rather obtained, by the action of zinc
(metallic) on chloroform and alcohol, is remarkably safe,
and writer has seen it used in many cases without any bad
symptoms arising. By far the most pleasant means of
anaesthesia is the Sydney Hospital system—administering
a few gallons of nitrous oxide gas, and then turning on
ether. This is remarkably safe and pleasant to take.
Dichloride of ethidine is another remarkably safe anses-
thetic, but is much more costly than chloroform. British
Medical Journal states that in 287 cases of major surgery
and 1565 cases of minor surgery only one death occurred
with its use.
“A. C. H.”
tells of a casual
romance:
Went t’other day
to a suburban
cemetery to in-
spect a tombstone.
A lydy clad in
rusty weeds came
down the path,
bearing an enorm-
ous cross of flowers,
of many and varied
hues. She halted
at the next grave
to me, which was
labelled “ Sacred
to the memory of
William Jones,”
and then, leaning
over the railings,
she indignantly
fished up with the
crook of her um-
brella an exquisite
white wreath
which lay at the
foot of the head-
stone. “Seuseme,”
'she remarked, in
vinegary tones,
“ did you put this
’ere?” I denied
adorning Jones’s
grave, whereupon
she departed to
find the caretaker,
and soon had him
on the scene. He
knew nothing be-
yond the fact that
a lady clad in black
had put it there.
Noticed it because
the same lady left
one every week.
At this point
thought that the
lawful relict (she
informed us that
she was such)
would have a fit.
“ Every week ! ”
she gasped ; “ The
cat—and me that
puts a beautiful
cross reg’lar every
annivers’ry of his
death.” Then she
lifted up the
offending wreath
and flogged it with
her umbrella, hold-
ing it at arm’s
length, as if it was
a spider. Then she
tor" into shreds
ads iod on it.
Slit had put down
her own gaudy col-
lection while she
did these acts of
violence, and now
she went away
leaving it hanging
forgotten on the
fence. And in a
curious, imper-
sonalsort of way I
felt almost glad that William Jones was dead—glad for
W. Jones’s own sake.
• * * *
Mayor Corrie, of Brisbane, violating all
local precedents, blankly refused to use the rate-
payers money for the decoration of the town on
tiie arrival of Sir Herbert Ohermside, the new
Governor; he invited the Queen-st. shopkeepers
to do their own decorating. Result—the main
street did not contain 20 yards of bunting; the
only adornment was that carried out by Govern-
ment.
THOROUGHLY DESERVED IT.
“Did I see you kissing my son as he went out
just now? ”
“ Well, serve him right; he kissed ME first.”
“ E.” : The other Saturday the employees
of Melb. Post Office took their precious annual
picnic, in order that the boss wind-bags of the
Department might see their speeches in print on
the Monday morning. The G.P.O. picnic holiday
is about the most unwarrantable nuisance that
Vic. Civil Service inflicts upon its long-suffering
employers, the Public. All offices, save the head
one in the town where stamps are sold and country
mails are graciously ‘ ‘ despatched and received as
usual,” close their doors at 10 a.m. The P.O.
Savings Bank and Money Order Office suspends
business.at the same early hour, whereby hundreds
of people are made to curse and swear, and—in
many cases—bewail the non-arrival of an expected
cash remittance. And all for the sake of a few
politicians and others who covet a report of their
stupid stereotyped utterances at a “functional”
luncheon.
* * # •
Sydney and Melbourne are, in one sense,
getting to be over-policed, and now nobody knows
the moment he may be waited upon by a detective,
who|desires him to give evidence against some-
body he doesn’t want to prosecute. The Indian
assurance-man, Oronhyateka, was convicted on
the evidence of his lady typewriter, who would
have preferred to let the offence go rather than
face the exposure of court proceedings ; and now
a young couple are under committal for getting
married when the girl was still under age. This
despite the fact that the girl’s parent had no
objection to the union. At present, nobody knows
how carefully the police are scrutinising his private
life to discover offences against persons who never
knew they were affronted until the “d.” called to
tell them so.
King Edward recently wrote a nice letter
to the Pope, congratulating the wiry old gentle-
man on his sacerdotal jubilee. The virulently reli-
gious N.S.W. Protestant Watchman remarks
thereon:—
Congratulating the man of sin, the enemy of God, on
his sacerdotal jubilee serves to prolong the war in South
Africa with its vast expenditure of treasure and its tale of
blood, and leads to signal defeat and disgraceful disaster.
The reverse of Lord Methuen is, we take it, God’s answer
to King Edward’s letter to the Pope.
* ♦ * *
The street attack upon August Nitschke,
Mary Schippan’s lover, seems to have been led by
a notorious ruffian, the “fancy man” of an
Adelady of extremely easy virtue. A champion
of Chivalry !
* * * *
When the Federal Government has
abolished all the sweeps and the bookmakers and
the tote-shops, it should turn its attention to the
church bazaar-raffle, which is an unfair gamble,
even if its real object is usually the promotion of
a lottery—that of marriage—generally held to be
in the public interest.
That precedence squabble at Maryborough
(Vie.) to settle whether the
Mayor or the chairman of
the water-trust should
have the front place at a
local funeral, recalls an
incident at a little
township near Ben-
digo. The police-
court was conducted
in the shire hall,
and the president
of theshireclaimed
the right to pre-
side, though the
P.M. was present.
The latter, a fierce old
Tory, would have died
rather than submit
to such an affront,
and great slang-
wanging ensued,
while the local
bobbies stood
paralysed, and
the prisoner
charged with insult-
ing language grinned
as he listened. Finally
the P.M. and the shire
president sought to gain
forcible possession of the
chair, and a tug-of-war took
place. They were strong men, and
it was the chair that gave way, with
the result that the combatants went flat on
their backs, after which they left the hall by dif-
ferent doors, in order to preserve, as far as
possible, the dignity of the court. Justice was
administered that day by an ordinary J.P., who
sat on a fruit-case.
• * * *
The chief practical result of the new
Shearers’ Union (the old organised laborites call
it bogus) will be this : that when the Arbitration
Court orders preference to be given to “ unionists ”
the order will apply to members of the new union
as well as to the others. And then, when they
get into the same shed, or behind it, won’t the
inerinoes and the crossbreds butt !
* * * *
The Law is an awful ass the other way too
sometimes. A young man appeared before Melb.
criminal court the other day, charged with in-
decently assaulting a six-year-old girl at Sand-
ringham under alleged revolting circumstances.
Justice Hodges—his Honor was once a curate —
began by an investigation as to how much
the child knew of Heaven and Hell. She
could only describe the Bible as “ a book,” to
his Honor’s evident horror, and, after failing to
get a more explicit answer, the court intimated
that as “it would be useless to proceed with the
trial,” prisoner would be discharged. All of
which vociferously asserts, for the edification of
scoundrels, that little girls who are not capable
of giving a lucid account of the “good book” are
outlaws. Henceforth, no doubt, a brief Scriptural
catechism will be the preliminary to all deliberate
child-assaults.
MIXED BATHING AT LITTLE COOGEE.
STATE MINISTER FOR LANDS: “I propose to place the bay
under proper supervision; and to frame such regulations
as are necessary for removing every objectionable feature
of the present practice.”
THE COOGEE COPPER : “ Now, clear out of this,
ma’am, an’ remove this objectionable feature.
’Tis the Ministher's ordering, an ’ Oi’ll see
that it’s done.”
“C.A.” : As to the row about “under-
takers’ perquisites,” what are undertakers’ perqui-
sites ? The Bulletin doesn’t know, but it does
know that many a wedding-ring is made of gold
filched from the mouths of the dead.
* * * *
In 1901, in Melbourne and suburbs alone,
769 persons, chiefly young adults, died of lung-con-
sumption, and 218 others, chiefly children, were
destroyed by other forms of tuberculosis.
THE KISS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This is the tale of a Kiss,
And one of the mouths that met
Knew well that passionate bliss—
’Twas new to the other yet.
“ Your soul I will kiss away
The touch of the first mouth said—
“l never lived till to-day l”
Said the Mouth, the wise Mouth wed.
Close as the mother-birds press
Warm breasts to their young, they drew.
To which did the joy come less—
Strange Mouth, or the Mouth that knew?
This is the tale of a Kiss,
The story is old and dead—
The wise Mouth tired of its bliss
The other ? Enough is said.
VIC.
QUITS.


J.D.K.Z. GIN.
Messrs. JN. DE KUYPER & ZOON’S famous
Gin has been established no less than 207 years,
and to-day enjoys the distinction of being the
most popular stimulant in the world. Its medi-
cinal qualities surpass those of any other spirit—
where a health and life-giving stimulant is re-
quired it will do all that the best brandy can do,
but is much superior for liver and kidney troubles.
Those who are particular about the quality of the
liquid they take, ask for J.D.K.Z. Agents for
N.S.W,, LUCAS LOCK & CO., Macquarie-
Plaec, Sydney.
R
AFFAN’S CATARRH REMEDY, Is., 2s. 6d., 55.,
for all Diseases of the Air Tracts.
R AFFAN’S CATARRH REMEDY,
Berne Genuine, no one is duped.
AFFAN’S CATARRH REMEDY,
is daily Saving Sufferers from Operations.
R AFFAN’S CATARRH REMEDY, sent complete,
throughout Comm onwealth, post 7s. 6d
R AFFAN’S CATARRH REMEDY,
Rapid and Permanent, for the Ears, Throat, Nose.
RAFFAN, Pharmacist, Melbourne.
gfd
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers’
Gazette, and Sailing List with map.
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 Collins-st., Melbourne. 4 Hunter-st., Sydney.
SILVER
STAR
THE
BEST
IN
THE
WORLD
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
fd
fd
fd
ALWAYS LUCKY.
“Buy a art-union ticket, lady? I'm ALWAYS
LUCKY.”
No matter what the census figures say,
annual “ conference ” statistics show that Metho-
dism isn’t the popular brand of religion in S.A.
that it was. For instance, the much-boomed
“ Twentieth Century Fund ” there has proved an
awful frost. The fact no doubt is that the holi-
ness which abhors open reading-rooms and art-
galleries on Sundays, and is dead-sure the road to
Hell is paved with “ Tattersall ” sweep-tickets,
and says “ Amen” to the crusade against the Sab-
bath Banana, is much too holy for a country
where one-person-one-vote, and other things,
have sec people thinking on their own account.
* » * *
“ Ada H.” : Re increase of Anglicans in
N.S.W. It is a fact that almost every governess
has to describe herself as belonging to the Church
of England. Strict Catholics obtain teachers for
their children from the convents, but the rest
have no objection to an Anglican, though they
would promptly reject a “dissenter.” Noncon-
formists, on the other hand, only ask that the
governess shall not be Roman Catholic, and
“Anglican” fills all bills. The registry-office
keepers give applicants the hint to discard the
extremes in religion.
* * * *
Two rival denominations at Benalla (Vic.)
lately held their respective Sunday-school picnics
on the same day at Glenrowan —the picturesque
hamlet where the Kelly gang fell in. The R.C’s.
sped there in a specially-chartered train of first-
class carriages, the Wesleyans in converted cattle-
trucks. The carriages and the trucks were hitched
together to form one train on the home journey ;
and the guard in charge, with a smile from Sligo
and in imported accents, shouted to the hurrying
passengers as they made for the train : “Roman
Cattlicks first-class, Wesleens to the cattle-trucks. ”
There were no bones broken. T
* • » •
Particulars in regard to the people who
attend church are the real “ religious statistics” of
a State ; and they are supplied by the churches
themselves and the statistician has to take the
parson’s word as to the number who sit under him.
Obviously there is room for a good deal of mis-
taken optimism in such a system. But, even
taking the clergyman’s word for it, the religious
population doesn’t seem to be a very great portion
of the community. Thus, the Church of England
with 623,131 professed adherents in N.S.W., con-
fesses that it has only 95,842 habitual attenders at
Sunday services—less than one-sixth of its flock.
In all N.S.W. only 375,691 people (men, women
and children) go to church, or yell as Salvation-
Armyists at the street corners, on Sundays.
• * * *
Noteworthy that the vast majority of
Seddon’s 9th contingent are youths, who won’t
need a razor for a couple of years or so. The
much-advertised 10th crowd will not be any older,
and, if an 11th is needed, it will have to be made
up of cadets.
We’ve heard nothing more of the story of
the girl who was subjected to a ruffian’s attempt
at outrage, in a railway-train, between the Sydney
suburbs of Macdonaldtown and Eveleigh (distance,
2min.). The silence on the matter is very solemn,
but it is sincerely to be hoped that the ruffian will
yet be brought to justice.
* * * *
Pastor Fitchett, of Melbourne, recently
declared that the British conduct of the
war in S’Africa is, in its excessive
humanity, one of the brightest spots in
history, or words to that effect, and
that it will be so adjudged in future
years. If Fitchett really thinks so,
which is very doubtful, this paper is
willing to make him a fair offer. It
doesn’t|want one of the brightest
spots in history to go past with-
out Fitchett having a share in
that spot. It would never for-
give itelf if Fitchett missed
his chance, through its
fault or neglect, to enjoy
some portion of a thing
which he admires so
much and declares to be
so beautiful. So The
Bulletin offers to go
down to Melbourne at
its own expense,
upon the necessary
arrangements being
made, and burn
Eitchett’s house
and all its con-
tents, including
his back sermons.
Then it will trans-
port him and his
family in a cart
to the Dargo
High Plain,
which is as near
to being a copy
of the veldt as
possible, and
there accom-
modate them
in a tent, with
a weekly ration of
71b. of flour apiece
and some beef and
salt and a few sun-
dries. Then Fitchett
and his non-combatant
family will be in exactly
the same position as the Boer
non-combatants, and Fitchett
will be able to enjoy the humanity and kind-
liness that he talks about, and one of the
brightest spots in British history will fall upon
him. If this offer isn’t fully appreciated, then the
assumption is that Fitchett doesn’t admire that
bright spot nearly so much as he says he does.
* • * *
There used to be two methods by which
persons suspected of crimes in Victoria could be
“identified.” A suspected person might be
brought face to face with the accuser, who was
asked : “ Is this the man ? ” or the suspect might
be placed with three or four others, and the
accuser asked to pick out the offender. The
Judges were divided in opinion as to which was
the better system, and the police took advantage
of the confusion to adopt the method suiting their
book best. Now it is gravely proposed to collect
the photographs of all the convicted forgers,
burglars, house-breakers, pick-pockets, &c., and
whenever a crime is reported the policeman will
yank out the pictures and the accuser will be
asked to pick his choice. This is fiendish in its
disregard for justice ; fatuous in its folly. It dis-
regards the fact that the ranks of the criminals
are continually changing, and practically ensures
the identification of the ex-corivict who most
nearly resembles the person who has committed a
particular crime.
* * * *
The “ pushes ” have been playing up at
Prahran (Vic.) lately, and t’other day two hard
cases were hauled up for belting a citizen who had
offended them by buttoning his coat in the street.
After dealing out much bash and boot, the toughs
compelled their victim to buy them drinks. For
this flagrant assault and robbery the accused were
fined £3 in a placid tone of voice, but the bench
subsequently told the offenders with some warmth
that they ought to be ashamed of themselves for
committing such an offence on the Sabbath. Truly
the common cheap justice is a comical animal.
Break as many citizens as you like, but don’t
break the Sabbath.
• • • •
At Malvern (Vic.) police-court one recent
morning, Herbert Bradshaw, “aged about nine
years,” was charged with breaking and stealing.
He had burgled a jeweller’s shop, and got away
with much property. The defence pleaded for
leniency on account of Herbert’s tender years,
whereupon the presiding policeman arose and
read the nine-year-old Bertie’s little record. He
had a dozen robberies to his discredit. “He is
the most accomplished housebreaker in Malvern,”
said the officer. Herbert was sent to “ the
schools,” but the school is not built that will hold
this engaging infant. Somebody suggests that
Bertie should be taken in hand and expressly
educated “ with a view to making a good man of
him.” But he would be sure to become a poli-
tician !
* * » «
The female inmates of a certain Australian
leper-establishment have their bitter moments. A
one-time Queensland belle —a big blonde with a
miraculously fair skin—lias invested herself with
the title of Queen of the Lazarette. This bit of
feminine conceit is violently resented by a not
unhandsome girl-leper inmate of the Octoroon
type. Recently the Queen, in a sudden rage,
spanked the Octoroon severely and dubbed her
“Chalk Bones.” Next morning the Queen com-
plained that the Octoroon had entered her room
at midnight and struck several matches on her
shoulder-blade. Nothing was done. It is hinted,
however, that both women are mashed on
Tommy Weeks, a Kanaka boy-inmate who spends
his time fishing from a knuckle of reef which is
completely surrounded by water at high tide.
Tommy enjoys his isolated position. When the
current is favorable the Queen and the Octo-
roon put love-notes in cleft-sticks, and let
them drift towards the isolated Kanaka. Tommy
gathers up the notes carefully and pastes
them poultice-fashion on his body. There’s no
sentiment about Tommy, but he has faith in the
healing properties of inked paper. A leper Chow
is quartered at the island end, who, from force of
habit, insists upon growing vegetables. When
the dreadful monotony is at its highest, and the
deadly morn grips the white lazarette in a corpse-
like halo, Tommy, armed with jagged rocks, bom-
bards the Chow’s quarters with methodical ferocity
until the trembling celestial makes peace-offerings
of vegetables. It is a charming Australian pas-
toral except when the octoroon strikes matches on
the Queen’s shoulder-blade.
* * * *
Extract from the letter of a Victorian
member of the 2nd Scottish Horse, dated Caro-
lina, Transvaal, 16/l/’O2: —
Last time I was here I thought the officers were on a
picnic ; but this column takes the bun. In the first place
they wanted us (the men) to burn one of our blankets
and carry only one blanket, one greatcoat, one w.p. sheet
and one shirt. They can have a Cape-cart and a Scotch-
cart to a squadron—sometimes two. They also have a
bullock-waggon that it takes 16 bullocks to drag ; this is
to carry luxuries and whisky and a large marquee for
them to dine in. Mind you, this is only for the officers
of the Scottish Horse. They also have a native boy and a
trooper for servants. The Cape-carts are drawn,
some by two, some by four lorses, while some
of the lads who have had the bad luck to lose
their mounts pad the hoof! They carry a one-fire stov>,
and there are three cooks, one sergeant of the mess, and
about six waiters—all off the “ Duty Roll,” which, of
course, makes our turn for duty come along all the
faster. Also, while they are living in luxury, we are
nearly always on half-rations, and . . . when we are
having our breakfast in the early dawn, it is very cheer-
ing to hear the officers’ mess-gong sound ; and, better
still, when leaving camp about 7.30 p.m. to pass the
Colonel’s tent and see the snow-white table-linen, with
plenty of glass and silverware, set out for his tea, which,
after he has given us our orders, and we are on patrol, he
goes back to enjoy. Another little item in connection
with “ The Hotel Cecil ” —as we have termed our officers’
mess—is the travelling poultry-farm. They carry ducks,
geese, turkeys, and fowls in crates. It is very amusing
to watch the niggers chasing them round the camp and
putting them in the crates before leaving in the morning.
And the boy with the milch cows—of which there are
six—to keep them supplied with fresh milk, poor things !
I’m 3ure they need it! To see our column on trek you
would say it was a travelling show.
• • # *
Federal Commandant Hutton’s initial
notions indicate that he is about to perpetuate the
rigid pipeclay tactics which have brought the
British army to the condition of inefficiency re-
vealed in the present war.
Supported by a reputation
for contempt for social in-
fluence, he has proceeded to
demolish this by picking as
his staff all social bigwigs.
Following this, he has issued
the ridiculous regulation that
all themembers of the Federal
and State staffs shall wear
uniform during office hours ;
and, finally, he made a speech
to the Vic. Commonwealth
contingenters telling them,
in effect, that the most im-
portant of their duties was
“ the punctilious saluting of
officers.” The General is
also at loggerheads with the
Federal Govt. It is a month
since he forwarded his list
of recommendations for the
State commandantships to
the Govt., yet they are still
unconfirmed. It ”is under-
stood that Tom Price is the
stumbling-block. Gen. Hut-
ton, for some reason, wants
Gordon, of S. A., in Vic., and
Price has been recommended
for Queensland. The Govt.,
however, fears that the mass of Labor mem-
bers from that State may kick against Price,
and they also fear to send him to S.A., because
the strong piety of Adelaide is not likely to stand
the langwidge with which Colonel Tom garnishes
his orders. At present, there is a deadlock
between the Commandant and the Ministry, and
how it will end nobody knows.
♦ * » •
The Bulletin is informed that certain
signalmen on the Victorian railways, who have
recently been working from four to five hours over
their regular 10 hours per day, are unable to
obtain the overtime-pay, because the District
Traffic Superintendent, with an eye to a bonus, is
ruthlessly cutting down expenses.
* * * *
A divorced couple met in Sydney on the
day their decree was made absolute by the Court,
and (no doubt after mutual congratulations) dined
openly together at a prominent hotel.
The Indian war canoe, Tilikum, wherein
two men are said to be sailing round the world
for an alleged wager, would never have been an
item in the world’s sum of foolishness but for the
daily newspapers that give serious advertisement
to the inane craft. Common sense can’t find
words to express its contempt for the Tilikum
notion. It is not an Indian war canoe, anyhow.
It is just a covered canoe, in which the occupants
can pass a dreary water-tight existence what time
waves wash over the deck covering. As an evi-
dence of man’s capacity to ride the ocean in a
small boat, the Tilikum is no more interesting
than the floating cork that provides a home for a
ruminative maggot.
• « * *
Gruesome item from the plague column of
a Sydney daily :
I have heard that Sydney general cemetery at Rook -
vvood is simply infested with rats ; that they are to be
found in thousands. They live in holes in the earth, in
much the same form as rabbits.
* * * *
Last plague outbreak in Sydney (1900)
inoculation was the thing, and thousands played
Pug by football around the Board of Health office
every day eager to be infected with a prophylactic
that gave protection against the disease. In 1902
there is not a whisper about inoculation: the
doctors are quite silent as to the sovereign specific
of 1900, and they aren’t being inoculated them-
selves.
* « • •
Albert Edward M‘Namara, convicted at
Melbourne of having (with intent to collect the
money for which his wife’s life and his house wers
insured) kerosened and set fire to the dwelling, is
to be hanged. One of M'Namara’s children wae
suffocated in the fire. The crime, if committed
as charged, was certainly unsurpassed for cruelty
and deliberation in the history of human wicked-
ness.
* * • *
An economical Sydneyite, about to take a
trip with a lady relative, the other day wrote this
on a telegram-form:
Secure me double bedroom and single for lady Western
hotel to-night.
Then, perceiving that the message contained one
word more than a shilling’s worth, he proceeded
to boil it down by striking out the “ for.” The
worst of it was that it was the hotel landlady
who opened that telegram.
A MIXED LOT.
“ The new reredos which has been designed for the
Church of St. Agnes, Bristol, England, as a memorial to
the boys of Clifton College who have fallen in the war
in S’Africa, is a remarkable one, inasmuch as it contains
the figure of Lord Roberts. It is believed to be the first
time a public man has been represented on such a piece
of work, and it shows the Commander-in-Chief in a
kneeling position as if in the act of prayer. Grouped
about him are the figures of Dr. Browne, the Bishop of
Bristol, a nurse and a footballer. —Sydney D.T. religious
column.
“ J.”: Aconfusion of sounds, and the rush of
a crowd brought me face to face with a tram acci-
dent. I was a curious atom of a curious crowd,
and on every side were pale, agitated women
struggling for a nearer view of what was happen-
ing, and vainly questioning. Then the announce-
ment was made: “A drunken man killed!”
Half-a-dozen married women in the vicinity
hysterically claimed the dead man as husband.
There was something intensely pathetic about
that instantaneous suspicion.
TWO WOMEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
One called me, with her quaintness and her grace,
The peerless beauty of a beaming face,
The sweeping curves of neck and breast and hips,
The rich red ripeness of two rose-lit lips.
I asked for all ; she gave me these —a part,
And oh ! the Hate that shudders at my heart!
Last night I met the other in the street—
Her grave eyes gladdened with a greeting sweet,
The gloved hand lingered in the palm of mine ;
My tongue seemed loosened as with warm, strong wine
And then I knew that grave eyes give the ivhole—
In my arms lay a sweet woman-soul.
VIC.
L.M.D.


IF YOU WOULD
“Stand on Belwet”
MARK ROY’S
10s. BOOT
A Combination
Of COMFORT,
NEATNESS
and ' r /."•
GOOD WEAR
18
What You Want!
'••-w,
Do you like Coffee?
Perfect, Pure,
Fragrant, Exhilarating Coffee
Then Try
M.SIWTH’S
Coffee Essence!
Cold
Medal
THE VERY BEST
Australian Representatives :
SWIFT & COMPANY,
7 SPRING STREET,
SYDNEY.
ffrCTURE
m
m
31
£
Co£s
m
All Drapers Everywhere.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, April 1, 1902.
My Dear Arini.—
First day of A. J.C. races was wet, so attendance
was limited. The dressing did not make for bird-
of-Paradise or empress-butterfly effect. Rain
.coats and three-quarter coats came out by the
score and quite a number of Aylesbury ducks.
True; the quackers brooded on top of many
plateau hats. The bll of the duck had been re-
placed by the beak of another fowl, and the eyes
lacked the low-comedy humor possessed by the
real duck’s eye, but those hats were trimmed with
whole white duck, or, in some cases, the wings
only.
Easter Monday’s racing brought out a brilliant
field of women under a brilliant sky, There were
the newest winter clothes with that dainty, curious
combination of lace and fur. There were summer
frocks of thistle-down and cob-web constitution.
There were frocks that narrowly escaped putting
their wearers into evening dress, so much charm
of shoulder, arm and bust did they display.
Spring, summer, autumn, winter had each about an
equal number of dress followers, and all four contin-
gents were seasonably dressed, if not for the whole
of the racecourse at least for spots of it, and the
journey thither. A hot sun, a moveless calm, a
wind that took shavings off your ears and nose—
the three conditions were present.
Seems to me there is little change in the fashions.
That new zebeline dress thing is hairy, like
whiskers. A lot of the hats are hairy, and where
is “all the trimming at the back ” that the home
fashions promised? Skirts are as long as ever.
The only girl who followed Lord Hopetoun’s
advice was Miss Fosbery. She looked as well in
short skirts as any tall, slender woman may look
in them, or in long ones. The stout beauty with
the Hebrew name showed how destitute of vanity
she is by wearing a skirt with three huge flounces,
a bo i, a wide collar, and everything to broaden
her. Mrs. Bland Holt, in a blue frieze, a long
grey coat, and a toque trellised with nasturtiums,
looked like some emotions and a moral. Mrs.
Mayoress Hughes encased her Roman-matron
personality in a midsummer sky frieze (no doubt
her dressmaker called it Wedgewood), and a black
feathered hat. Mrs. Sharinan, the wife of Auck-
land’s health officer, swept to and fro (with
big blond hubby) in a black and white alliance
imported from Paris—flounced skirt of white, a
coat of crinkled silk, wide black bars on a white
ground, and a three-cornered hat like that which
George Washington used to wear. Rupert Clarke,
thin, in knockabout clothes, the highest collar on
the course, and a straw hat, looked more manly
than the phalanx of frock-coated, light-panted,
top-hatted, fat young men who squired all the
well-known girls and women.
What a lot of quite young “Society” men are
fat ! With their close-shaven red faces, brillian-
tined hair, swelling waistcoats, and thick necks
they look like Harry Rickards’ artists off duty.
Wanted, a 1902 Peter the Hermit to preach a
crusade against excessive eating, drinking, sleep-
ing, and lack of thinking.
Home-Minister Lyne escorted a quartette of
nice-complexioied young women, in four shades of
blue. J. C. Williamson put on his little bit, and
lost with the philosophy with which he saw
£lB,OOO go up into the morning in fire and smoke.
The sacred concert in the Sydney Centennial
Hall, on Good Friday night, was far from sombre in
its tone. Edward Sykes, at the organ, sent forth a
subdued, rippling thunder that was felt rather
than heard, and created a strangely sympathetic
atmosphere that, opium-like, increased the capacity
for enjoyment. This effect was most noticeable in
Henry Weir’s rendering of the sacred song, “ The
Throne of Grace,” which impressed this writer as
being particularly beautiful. The gems of the
evening were Henri Stael’s violin solos, and the
wild exultation that pealed through the great hall
when W. A. Robyns, assisted by a chorus, and
accompanied on organ and piano, flung out the
triumphal notes of Faure’s “Les Rameaux.”
When the booming organ notes had died away
and the last echo was still, another sound arose—
the stormy applause of a delighted audience
demanding an encore, which could not be given.
Miss Eva Mylott looked sunburnt and comfort-
able in sequined lace over a green material, and
sang Liddle’s “Abide with Me” and Gounod’s
“There is a Green Hill,” and an encore in a
mechanically perfect, but soulless, fashion.
Madame Sara Lewis, the Melbourne soprano, and
Miss Edith King, also sang charmingly ; and the
only dull item on the programme was the “ Tann-
hauser” overture on the “ Angelus Orchestral.”
“ Tannhauser ” is too much for any single instru-
ment, barring the Grand Organ.
Last week I fell down on to the southern capital.
After an absence of two years I found Neural-
gopolis (it callsusPlagueville) rather an interesting
place to stay away from. It was cold, with a
depressing cold, rained incessantly, and its sky
was grey as a cobweb. Some of the inhabitants,
smelling of formalin and camphor, came to see
me, but didn’t sit very close. I noted that they
wore long three-quarter coats of cloth, or the jackets
of carracul which are just making their way into
our drapers’ windows, and that they (the coats
and jackets) didn’t look at all new. Yet they are
amongst the newest things in out-door apparel.
Neuralgopolis has had no summer, so its women
are doing a long spell in winter clothes. The
servant trouble is as acute in Melbourne as in
Sydney : cooking and all the details that pertain
to meal-preparation are such a big factor—often the
principal one—in house-keeping, that there is
anxious discussion amongst matrons about form-
ing a company similar to that in London, from
which you may order your one or three or four
meals a day, and have them whirred round to you
by motor-car. Four hundred motor-cars are so
employed in London. Matrons also have the
motor-car call for soiled glass and table china, and
so do away with “washing-up” in the house!
To many households the establishment of such a
company would mean the abolition of the serving-
damsel altogether. All the idea wants is the ser-
vices of a first-class company-promoter. Now
that mining is dull, some enterprising stock-broker
should turn his attention to this.
Melb. women are rather strong on combines.
There’s a writer’s club just formed, also an anti-
scandal society. Members of the last, if they hear
anything derogatory of a fellow-woman are “to
rise and walk out of the room.” I saw one of the
anti-scandal members, and she looked a stone
thinner than when she was in Sydney a month
ago. She had had so much walking exercise, you
see.
Melbourne has not been very gay, but, com-
pared with our Sydney dullness, she has had a
long Mad Thursday. But the Hopetouns will
leave soon, the Maddens are lying low, the Clarkes
—stylish widow and smart daughter-in-law—have
gone, and, for a momentary lack of something to
talk about, the people mention such depressing
details as that Rupert Clarke saw the “ Runaway
Girl ”13 times. Well, she’s an attractive piece of
musical pastry, and the sporting baronet shouldn’t
stop at the unlucky number. Lauri and Carrie
Moore, as Dani and Bassich respectively, are
funnier than a coronation rehearsal, and the swirl
of Palotta’s frillies as she vaults over fences and
three-bar gates, following the Man from Cook’s, is
well, it’s startling, but all Grace does is done
gracefully.
By the way, she has taken a little furnished
lair, St. Kildawards, for, at the hotel where she
hitherto lived, she was so called upon by the
public that she belonged to the public all day
instead of from 8 to 11 p.m. at the theatre.
Grace’s visitors love to hear her greet them with
her little “ hulloa-ah ! ” “ Hulloa ” from the lips
of some women comes like a swear-word. From
Grace it flatters the vanity of the “ hulloaed.”
Grace cannot recite as well as the average
amateur. She tried “Story of a Faithful Soul”
at Good Friday night’s concert at Exhibition
Building, making no points, and not differentiating
in the narrative the Angel’s and the Soul’s lines.
When she did show feeling she struck the wrong
note, a kind of got-em again-take-away-that-rat
horror. All the same the audience rose at her,
and she smiled like the saved Soul must when
told to go up top. A black grenadine skirt,
trimmed down the front with what looked like
semi-circles of pine-apple, and a bodice with tucked
chiffon sleeves and pink velvet about its modest
decolletage, was Grace’s Good Friday night frock.
One who has given very good account of herself
as to acting and elocution in “The Runaway
Girl ” is Blanche Wallace as Lady Coodle. Getting
the chance, she has come out of her shell: “ You
never know what the oyster will do after it has
been to college,” and if this oyster doesn’t spoil
her flavour by too sumptuous a figure .
Coffee was handed round at the “Runaway
Girl” during the interval in circle and stalls, six-
pence per cup—a noble innovation. It was boiling-
hot, but most Australian throats are coppered;
the night was cold, and the cups were emptied ere
the curtain went up again.
Amy Castles landed in Melbourne on Saturday
forenoon. Since Wednesday the Poiynesien,
buffeted by wind and waves, had stood in sight of the
city unable to land her singing and other freight.
Wearing her travelling frock of blue cloth with a
Russian blouse, and a big felt hat crammed low
over her ears, Amy was led like a lamb to the
photographers, then went to see Archbishop Carr,
and afterwards called upon Mrs. J. C. Williamson
at the latter’s hotel. Ruddy brown as to com-
plexion, light hazel as to eyes, with a strong,
roundish face and dark hair draped over her
ears and tied in a pig-tail loop at the nape
of the neck; a lovely throat; about five
foot two or three in stature, with a childish
figure, an unspoilt child’s manner and a low,
slow speaking voice into which has grown a
trace of foreign accent—that’s Amy Castles. No
sign of swelled head about the girl. She can
speak but little of anything of her life abroad
beyond the routine of her studies, her eight
months with Marchesi, her study under Bouhy,
and her dramatic work under a French actor.
French and Italian she studied vigorously and
speaks the former well. So the French visitors
present told her.
She had not sung a note from time of leaving
England, and someone had the nerve to ask for a
song. Amy looked shy, and Benno Scherek
quickly interposed, “ Let me show you a card-
trick!” “ A note, then! ” persisted the speaker,
and Amy leant back against the sideboard and
noted. J ust one, a soaring jet of music that startled
the hotel —from the birds on the glass dome down
to the people amongst the buckets and brushes
and dynamos in the basement.
The singer’s mother has taken a furnished
house out of Melbourne, and Miss Castles
will rest awhile and prepare her programmes
with Scherek. First concert will include
the mad scene from “ Hamlet,” which she
has not yet sung in public, but is “just
dying” to do so. “Juliette” is her favorite
operatic part, and up to date she has studied, in
all, eight operas. Amy’s platform frocks are
really fetching, mainly cream and blue. She
doesn’t put on any side about song food, but has
got into the way of French breakfasting, which,
as she does not drink coffee, in her case means no
breakfast. Madame Albani, whom Miss Castles
met at the house of one of the Queen’s maids-of-
honor, sent her love to the Australians. Kate
Rooney sends remembrances to Sydney. Amy
wears the wide gold ring that her Bendigo girl
chums gave her on leaving three years ago. One
sums up her personality : Simplicity and health.
For the first time in Australia we have a work
on etiquette to ourselves. “ Etiquette in Aus-
tralia,” by A.L.0.A., is a nice little paper-
covered book, but, as the writer admits, there is
no special brand of Australian etiquette. Same
obtains here as in England, save that we have
only the beginnings of a plutocracy and no aristo-
cracy. Etiquette of visiting, mourning, weddings,
dinners, balls, &c. ; there are chapters on these
texts, and every chapter is preceded by a verse of
poetry. That on vice-regal etiquette, the author
acknowledges, was revised by several members of
vice-regal staffs.
Mother-love, whether mother be married or un-
married, is entirely a question of temperament,
although it has been the vogue of poets, especially
young, unmarried ones, to write of the childless
woman as agonising in secret over an unblessed-
ness for which no other benefit under Heaven can
compensate. Arthur H. Adams has an especially
pathetic slab on this theme. I have seen a woman,
one of the best and happiest, many years a
wife, but childless, read that poem with an
amused contemptuous wonder. “ I never felt that
way,” she said, “ but I do feel that if I had a child
I should be an almost idolatrous mother.”
Yet an acquaintance of mine is now preparing
for a frisk to the Coronation, leaving her only child,
aged six, at a boarding school. Another woman,
whose husband wishes to take her, insists that she
be accompanied by her five “ arrows ” or she won’t
go at all. She doesn’t even let them out of her
sight to go to school, and hasn’t paid a visit or
returned a call or gone to a theatre since the eldest
was born, 10 years ago. She only leaves her own
grounds to go to a photographer’s with one or
other of the tribe.
And, concerning filial love, I heard a girl ex-
plaining how nearly she had joined the Salvation
Army. Commandant Herbert Booth’s wife, who
is an educated, well-bred woman with nothing of
the capering captain about her, used to address
nightly a class of gone-wrong girls and wind up
her exhortation with—“O think, think, are there
none here whose mothers are waiting for them by
the pearly gates!” “That hind bit,” said the
girl, “ choked off a lot of us, ’cause we didn’t want
to see our mothers in the next world if they was
anythin’ like they was on earth—always bangin’
us or jeerin’ at us.”
There is, I am assured, no occasion for joy
among womankind over the abolition of the tea
duties. When the tariff was first announced,
merchants promptly raised the prices of teas on
which no duties had been paid. Many of them
lost good, regular customers through doing so,
and competition soon brought prices down ; and
when they were selling teas on which duty had
really been paid, the merchants were unable to
raise the price again. The great advantage of
the duty was that it prevented Australia being
flooded with the refuse and damaged teas of India
and China. With a duty of 3d. per lb. it did not
pay to import these dangerous tea-sweepings, and
as all low-priced teas were always carefully
examined by the Customs authorities to make
sure a swindle was not being worked, leaf unfit
for human consumption had no chance of entering
the ports. • Just after Mr. Reid removed the
N.S.W. tea-duty Sydneyites were much exercised
to read that a shipment of tea which had been
refused entry at Brisbane as unfit even for the
swill tub, had been sent on to Sydney and sold in
the open market, and was even then stewing
for the throats of Freetraders and Protectionists
alike.
Fiction and real life alike teem with sad
examples of the disrespected head of the house-
hold wasting in riotous living the home that has
been chiefly made by the hard toil of his wife,
and, perhaps, occasionally, the earnings of
his children. Vie. Chief-Secretary Trenwith pro-
poses to check this evil by a Registration of Homes
Act. Under the proposed law all property legally
registered as a home can only be disposed of or
mortgaged by the consent of all the registered
members of the home. It cannot be seized
either wholly or in part for the debts of any or
the whole of the members. The people who will
suffer most, should the idea crystallise into law,
will be those who “ lend money on furniture with-
out possession.”
Rumor states that the present shortage of
Sydney’s water supply is owing, in at least some
small degree, to the unusual demand for baths by
people who, until the advent of the Plague, were
sceptical of the efficacy of soap and water. Any-
how, the baths are a fact, and are taken mixed
with all sorts of nostrums. The other day, a
bright infant of six heard his mother say to a
friend that she used a little Condy’s Fluid herself.
Youngster, unnoticed, went to bathroom and put
in, not a little, but the whole bottle. When his
mother found him, little Willie was like a half-
caste Indian. The disinfectant had dyed him a
rich brown.
Concerning how a recently-married Melbourne
pair met a decade ago. A young man and a just-
out girl were two of a sauntering crowd at some
little side-show exhibition in London—pictures,
stuffed animals, Indian idols, costumes on lay
figures and wax busts of famous or notorious
women. Behind a seated figure, which she
thought was one of the waxen gallery, the girl
paused and remarked to the elder sister with her :
“Did you ever see anything so natural as this
head ; it’s afine ad. for some barber?” Arid she
stuck a long lace-pin, with which she was toying,
into the finely-coiffed head. The “ ad.” screamed,
sprang round, and slapped the visitor’s face. Both
sisters began to cry, and the strange man who
came to their assistance became the bridegroom of
this wedding.
I suppose the “ Celebrated Events ” parties are
not unknown in Sydney. They are very popular
in London—in between the small-pox attacks.
A friend of mine went to one awhile ago. He
was in evening-dress with a gas-bill pinned to his
breast. He was a Celebrated Event. And he
says that one of the company guessed him cor-
rectly. Such insight is hardly natural. He was
“ The Charge of the Light Brigade.”
That beautiful old theory that married men live
longest has received a sad shock in Maoriland.
An analysis of the recent census reveals that there
are 17,904 widows, of whom 3000 are under 40, in
the colony, while, there are only 10,653 widowers.
Also, Maoriland is a blessed place for the cunning
sex, as there the long-haired division is in great
demand, there being only 24,114 women between
the ages of 21 and 25 against 29,482 men of the
same age. The man who gets divorced doesn’t
seem to be in such a hurry to get bitten again as
does the woman who has made a bad first shot
at matrimony, the divorced meji who are “still
divorced ” being returned as 225, while the simi-
larly placed ladies numbered only 141.
A certain newly-arrived Australasian Governor
and his suite, while on tour, stayed at a coast
hotel. After they had gone, the chamber-
maid found 6s. in the aide’s room, which she pre-
sumed had been left as a tip. Next day, however,
a (franked) wire arrived saying that the gallant
officer had left some njoney in his room, and
would the proprietor please send it on. The prop,
did send it on, but carefully deducted the amount
necessary to buy the P.O. order. The aide in
question is said to enjoy a private income of
thousands per year.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“Despite heavy rains that swamped half the
low-lymg localities within short distances of Mel-
bourne on 1 hursday, about 30 or 40 brave souls
weathered the gale in spats, macks, and a spirit
of determination, and put in at the Town Hall,
where the Mayor was giving a reception in honor
of the home-coming of Amy Castles. Men were
m the majority. Manager Williamson, as ripe in
the cheek as a rosy apple, and as bright as a mili-
tary brass-button, stood outside the door, awaiting
news of the arriving singer. Rev. Father Robin-
son held a confab, with George Allen ; G. Tallis
and a few other business agents lined the lobby.
Within the room, a row of waiters and the seated
femininity provided a picture of expectancy,
ihreeo clock, the hour named for the reception,
slipped by. Ten minutes, then a quarter of an
hour, passed slowly, and by then people had
made up their minds that Amy must have
fallen into the clutches of some hysterical ad-
mirers who were delaying her. No one sus-
pected that there was any other cause for her
non-coming, the belief being that she had landed
that morning. Then the Mayor bustled in with a
stream of rather disconsolate individuals at his
heels, and annonnced that Miss Castles was still
on the Poiynesien and couldn’t get ashore. But
His Worship rose to the occasion, and invited all
to make the best of it to-day, and come and help
greet Miss Castles next Thursday. (One Thurs-
day is as good as the other for an advt. welcome
seeing that Miss C. doesn’t appear on the
concert platform until next Tuesday.) Then the
band played, the corks popped, and everyone
settled down to enjoy the free feast. Grace
Palotta, who made her appearance with Mrs.
O’Hara and the dignified Rev. J. H. O’Connell
(of the Woman’s Hospital Committee), was the
person who got the most fun out of the pro-
ceedings. She laughed at a big circle of theatricals;
waved her hand airily to Mrs. Williamson, who
was all in black with a small relief of white, and a
hat struck up suddenly in the back and down in
the front; talked to the staid John Gavan Duffy
and the sky-pilot in turn ; and showed off her red
and white panne blouse, brown skirt, and buoyant
hat all crisp at one side with a long white feather,
to the, councillors and the chiffon barrackers.
Mrs. O’Hara was a revelation at this dislocated
reception. She was in grey Zebeline with violet
relief and a violet supplement atop her fair head.
“There is much fun in observing the tactics of
showmen and organisers generally who tout, now
for the Gov.-General and his stern dame, and
again for the pleasant Clarke pair. While there
is a chance of procuring the presence of the
Exalted Exes, no one dreams of touting for the
smaller State fry. Up to this, these latter have
shown a kindly spirit, and are always ready to do
anything within reason that they are asked.
It will be a sad trial for some of the most grasping
social showmen if, after the refusal of the Hope-
touns, the Clarkes being then solicited, also send
in regrets and inability to attend. This must
happen sooner or later.
“ ‘The Daughters of the Court ’ have for Presi-
dent the chilly Countess. Their Dame, Mrs.
Bevan, welcomed her most frigid Ex. to the
meeting last Tuesday—an afternoon when the
four winds of heaven kicked up their cloud-skirts
in a set of lancers about the city. But volumes of
dust are a small obstacle to surmount when a
Countess is on view, and so 200 visitors made an
appearance at Lady Hopetoun’s installation. Mrs.
Corbet, that careless, good-natured chum of the
Countess, helped to put the nervous at their ease.
At this prim little function, Dame Bevan got up
picturesquely for the camera in black silk and
rich lace mantilla and drape. She talked to some
length and effect of the Daughters’ Mission, of
their progress and general prosperity. These
good little souls do noble deeds ‘ not dream them
all day long,’ and are generally highly exemplary.
“ Dress-builders are becoming alarmed at the
apathy in sartorial matters, of their swagger
clients. There is a desire on the part of the
Naicest, who are left lamenting while all their
more prosperous cousins and friends are off to add
their little cloud to the Big Smoke at Coronation
time, to put in the, term of the next six months
in inexpensive retirement. Altogether 2000
are said to have gone from Melbourne and your
rat city, and the social remnant who give Toorak
and other polite suburbs certain signs of habita-
tion are inclined to retire for the winter season.
So dress-orders are off, and half the Duchesses
who play the autocrats of the Show Rooms will
shortly be given undesired freedom, unless indeed
old customers change their present intentions and
come to the rescue with such orders as may keep
the Duchesses at their posts.
(Continued on page 28.)


■
BULLETIN SUBSCRIBERS^"
Who are unable to read small printed matter, or to see fine
stitching or writing, whose distant vision is dull and who suffer
from persistent headaches or pains after close application—you
may rest assured that you are suffering from Ageing 1 or
Impaired Vision, and Need Glasses. You should visit
us, and have your sight scientifically tested, and be supplied
with Glasses adapted to your individual case.
TO COUNTRY READERS who cannot visit us personally, we send, Post Free to any address, with full instruc-
tions and Price List, our marvellously-accurate and popular SELF SICHT-MEASUMN2 PATENT. By its use
you can Test your own sight and determine for yourself the style and quality of the glasses you may need.
Write for it to—
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Consulting 1 Optician,
371 George St., Sydney,
A ndat232 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, opposite Age Office.
next door to the A.J.S. Bank.
King and George Streets.
?Li©hTest Mnes
Australia.
n
Supplied to H.R.H. the Duke of York.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Australia’s final conclusion : He was a
very little man the Duke, but the Bill is very big.
Ex-Governor Beauchamp is now lay-
preaching throughout England under license from
his Grace of Canterbury.
Edmund Barton moved only one motion of
censure (and that unsuccessfully) during his nine-
teen years’ membership of N.S.W. Assembly.
Pilcher, K.C., has been 35 years exercis-
ing his sharp wits in Sydney courts; Want,
K.C., 33. Salomons has been 41 years at the
work.
Two more acting-Judges appointed for
N.S.W. circuit work. In the Supreme and minor
courts there are now eight acting-Judges ! It is
a shameful system.
What an unspeakable goat —it is the only
word—was that Victorian official who oabled con-
gratulations to Lord Methuen on the latter’s
release by the Boers !
Home Secretary Foxton (Q.) is a Mel-
bourne native and pupil of the great old Dr.
Bromley. He is 64 years of age, 30 of which he
has passed as a solicitor.
Obit., at Melbourne, 26th March, aged 83
years, the mother of Mr. Justice a’Beckett, and
widow of Thomas Turner a’Beckett, M.L.C. She
came with her husband to Victoria in 1850.
Melbourne’s chief post-mortemer, Dr.
Neild, now 77 and looking but 60, has cut up about
7000 corpses. What romance, what appetite,
what illusions can remain to the man who has so
investigated 7000 fellow-beings !
Elliot Smith, who graduated at Sydney
University a few years ago, is now an advanced
Egyptologist, and is rooting in the El Amrah
graveyard, some 8000 years old, making a selection
for University College School, London.
Premier Dick Seddon, when introduced to
a Russian globe-trotter at an Auckland club
(loq.) : “ Has the wonderful military spirit of our
colony, and the heroism of our troops, not made a
strong impression on military circles in Russia?”
King Edward has visited Burton-on-Trent,
and “ started the mash for a special brew of
strong ale, which is to be religiously preserved
and known as the King’s Ale.” Not the first
large-sized mash that Albert Edward has started.
ISAAC ISAACS, M.H.B.
The late Cecil Rhodes followed W. B.
Dailey as recipient of the title of P.C. outside the
United Kingdom. Alfred Stephen was next in
these latitudes. P.C.’s at the Coronation will
take precedence next after Knights of the Garter.
Mr. Barton says he will be most happy
to suggest to the Imperial Government a man
suitable to be British Resident in the New
Hebrides. What’s the name of the gifted person
in Mr. Barton’s eye, and is he in the employ of
Burns, Philp and Co. ?
Gallery scribes in the Federal Senate had
many arguments as to the qualifications of senators
fora “booby prize.” By process of exhaustion
they got the number of “ possibles ” down to four
—Walker (N.S.W.), Ferguson (Q,), Zeal (Vic.)
and Pulsford (N.S.W.) There was much
wrangling in the choice of the actual winner until
one day Pulsford decided the matter by making a
speech.
George Perry, Sydney’s celebrated Do-
main spouter rounding on his pals: “You saw
me in a carriage in the Duke and Duchess pro-
cession, and you cheered me, you blooming fools!”
Plenty of the same sentiment will always be avail-
able for similar occasions.
Te Whiti, the Parihaka “prophet,” is a
teetotaller, and would draw bigger crowds than
any temperance apostle if he could be tempted to
tour M.L. in the Cold Tea interest. By the way,
no one has yet been able to interpret the prophet’s
utterance: “ The potato is cooked.”
G. H. Reid, K.C., now regularly gets 50
guineas for his first day in a jury case, with 30-
guinea refreshers. At one bound Mr. Iteid went
from an obscure position at the Bar to almost the
top place among advocates. In “ jury cases ” now
he is the first man sought by solicitors.
H. M. Chomley, who has just stepped out
of the Vic. Police Commissionership, was the
oldest-established civil servant in the State. His
record of continuous service is not approached by
any competitor, and of all the officers who fought
on the Imperial side at Eureka he alone survives.
It has not yet been printed that at the
recent presentation of the sword of advt. to
Barnum-Powell, Mr. Copeland, N.S.W. Agent-
General, who was in a most cheerful and enthu-
siastic mood, insisted on reciting “ How brave
Horatius kept the Bridge ” from the beginning to
the bitter end.
From London :—“ S’malkum M’Eacharn,
a possible High-Commissioner for the Common-
wealth ! If Barton does this thing I’ll abandon
Australia to become a Yankee. S’malkum’s
political influence in London would be that of a
sort of superior bumboat person trading from
Deptford to Rotherhithe.”
The shooting of those Australian irregular
officers seems to have been as cold-blooded as the
Boer-murders allegedly committed by them were
charged to be. They were not tried until months
after their arrest; and meanwhile they were
released and went through a deal of hard fighting.
After all which they were court-martialled, and
shot next day.
E. T. Smith, the gilded and good-natured
ex-brewer, underwent 15 distinct farewells ere
leaving Adelaide, last week, for London. At the
last moment Premier Jenkins announced that
E.T.S. had been chosen to represent t at
the Coronation, in the absence of the said Jenkins.
He will be 71 on the voyage, but does not look it.
He has sat in the local Parliament ever since 1872.
The Bulletin wants it understood, with
reference to certain printed statements, that it
never called Barton “Australia’s Noblest Son.”
That originally came from the Australian Star,
vvhen that noblest of papers shamelessly jumped
Jim Crow, after persistently kicking against the
Commonwealth Bill and alluding to Toby as
Australia’s noblest political “gun”—or words to
that effect.
The composer of the well-known hymn,
“ Nearer My God to Thee,” was one Sara Flower,
the daughter of an English-born Unitarian minis-
ter settled in the U.S. ; but in Australia the
notion has prevailed till now that she was identi-
cal with Madame Sara Flower, celebrated here as
a contralto in the fifties. Anyone who knew our
generous, jolly, Bohemian Sarah Flower would
never have suspected her of hymns—spelt with
a “ y.”
Printed that Mr. Willis, M.L. A. (N.S.W.),
is going to England for a holiday, and that:
No doubt he will have a good time in London, as he is
a personal friend of the influential Earl Jersey and the
intellectual Oountess.
The Bulletin cordially congratulates Lord Jersey.
Mr. Willis, who shipped over 600 horses to
S’Africa in the Euryalus, is said to have of late
made barrels of money in the moke-trade.
Isaac Harris, a pensioner 98 years of age,
who died at Carlton (Vic.) recently, was a colonist
of 82 years’ standing. His father was Capt.
Jacob Harris, one of the commandants of Norfolk
Island. Isaac Harris left England for Australia
when 17 years old, and was employed by John
Batman in Tasmania in his famous operations for
the capture of the outlawed aborigines. Isaac
also had an adventurous career on the N.S.W.
and Vic. goldfields. His father lived to be 104,
and his mother 100.
It is just as well that the names of the
Australian braves, shot after court-martial in
Africa for cold-bloodedly murdering unarmed
Boer prisoners, have transpired. Otherwise, we
might have had public monuments erected to their
valorous memory. But, after all, why shouldn’t
Parliament appropriate money out of the loan-
funds to commemorate their noble deeds ? For,
however misguided, they were true sons of the
Empire of Cohen, and acted in the most practical
way towards the solution of Rhodes’ problem.
Major (and solicitor) Lenehan, denying
that he had “done” three months in connection
with the S’African atrocities :
You’ve seen it, and I have seen it myself, in the Mel-
bourne and in the Sydney papers. Well, there isn’t the
least bit of truth in it. When I read the statement in
Melbourne I felt like issuing writs for libel unless an ex-
planation in my regard was made by the papers. Perhaps
the papers are not to blame. . . t was never charged,
never tried, never sentenced.
What a pearl among lawyers ! He has, on his
own showing, the chance of libel-actions worth a
ton of money, and he doesn’t take it.
Claude Hamilton Stowers, of Melbourne,
who was tried with his 18-year-old wife for the
murder of their baby, the jury disagreeing, is
alleged to be a “ well-connected ” young man
who came to Australia for colonial experience.
Stowers’ experience has been gleaned almost
wholly in the cities, and since his arrival he has
lived on remittances from ’Ome. In appearance
he resembles minor-poet Le Gallienne, his thin,
clean-shaven face and long masses of curly hair
recalling that writer’s description of his own
marble forehead as “ gleaming like a white moon
between two cypress trees.” During their two
days’ trial Stowers and his wife never exchanged
a word as they sat side by side in the dock.
THE HOUSE OF O’MOSES.
“ The N.S.W. State Premier received a petition, signed
by about 300 firms and individuals engaged in commerce,
protesting against a public holiday on St. Patrick’s Day.
Mr. Popstein was not in favor of shutting up
his shop on St. Patrick’s Day. But the “ tear
leetle shamrock” over the door will still pro-
claim him the patriot he is.
It is recorded by Sydney D.T. re execu-
tion of Australian officers in S’Africa for murder-
ing Boer prisoners :
One of the two men court-martialled was Lieutenant
H. H. Morant, of South Australia, better known in
Sydney as a Bulletin contributor under the nom de
plume of “ The Breaker.”
That’s on the one hand : on the other :
His father was Vice-Admiral G. Digby Morant, a
personal friend of King Edward’s.
And it was certainly the influence of the father’s
friend rather than that of the newspaper which gob
“ The Breaker ” into trouble on this occasion.
Harry Morant (“ The Breaker ”), who pre-
sided over the “ court-martial ” (if ever a court-
martial was pretended) of one batch of Boer
prisoners shot in S’Africa, was well known in and
out of Bulletin office as a man quite unfitted to
act as referee even at a dog-fight. And The Bul-
letin only knew Harry Morant, “ The Breaker,”
in his character of a genial citizen who wrote
bright verses, broke the rules of social propriety,
and was “no man’s enemy but his own.” For the
rest, he was what Jingoism and the malign in-
fluence of war had made him. Just let anyone
who ever knew “The Breaker” try to imagine
him presiding over a court of life and death !
Curious circumstances connected with a
very valuable estate in N.S.W. The original
grantee died a bachelor. His sister married A. 8.,
to whom the original grantee bequeathed every-
thing. A.B. and wife had no children. A.B.
bequeathed everything to two brothers and some
sisters, all of whom died bachelors and spinsters.
The last of them, D. 8., died some years ago and
left his estates to a married relative, who is child-
less. This relative has a brother managing a part
of the estate, who is also married and so far child-
less. Again, the gentleman who for 60 years
managed the Sydney part of the business for
A.B. and D.B. was twice married and has no
children. He is 88 yea.rs old now.
From a Sydney D.T. sketch of Rhodes,
which has lapses of candour :
On the lofty heights of his ambition he felt none of the
warmth of ordinary human affections. All softness had
been wrought out of his nature in the process of harden-
ing it to fit its purpose. There was a curious lack of
human sympathy in Cecil Rhodes. A millionaire, he gave
£lO,OOO to the Home Rule cause, but never thought it his
duty to assist the members of his family financially.
Lavish as he was in political expenditure, Cecil Rhodes
was careful almost to the point of meanness in other
respects. His own house-keeping was of the simplest,
his dress of the plainest. He amassed money not for the
sake of any luxury which it might provide him, not so
that he might play the Lord Bountiful among his rela-
tions or friends, but simply as an instrument of his ambi-
tion. Power he sought with a steadfast singleness of
purpose, which he allowed neither love of women, desire
of ostentation, nor affection for friend or kindred Co
modify. Singleness of purpose—that was the secret of
Mr. Rhodes’ success, and the secret also of the many un-
amiable traits which detractors found in his character,
his lack of human sympathy, his somewhat defective
ideas of candor, his free sacrifice of human instruments
when the Aim demanded.
R.A. writes :
As one of “ The Breaker’s ” mates I lament his dramatic
exit. Harry Morant, though of Irish stock, was English
—Devonshire bred. It was usually accepted that he was
compelled to cqme to Australia on account of some dread-
ful transgression upon the family honor. Present
chronicler, who has shared fat kine and lean with the
warm-hearted “ Breaker,” emphatically contradicts the
accepted certainty of his guilt. Morant did leave Eng-
land under peculiar circumstances, and has suffered,
until his tragic death, mental pain that only strong men
can face. But he was guilty of no crime ; he left the land
of his birth accused of a social transgression, and,
rather than destroy the good name of one who had
a chivalrous claim upon him, he has destroyed himself.
No one knowing “ The Breaker” intimately could con-
ceive him doing anything mean or pusillanimous.
It was his boast that he never left a mate in a hole, and
many times his last shilling has gone the old weary road
for the sake of a pal. Morant was none too conscientious ;
he would “shake ” fodder for his starving “ neddy ” ; but
he was never guilty of peculation for the purpose of lining
nis own hard-cased stomach. He was physically clean, a
man who “ tubbed ” well, winter and summer alike, and
when the “shower” was not handy he would wander
through the frosty morning seeking for a waterhole or a
creek. Then for a space he would thrash at the water,
and come out singing “ Maggie Lauder.” “ The Breaker”
only knew one song right through, reminiscent of Scot-
land, and Cupar, Fife, where he was wont to spend his
vacations when a school boy. He had many failings,
but his kindly eyes and big heart redeem him to this
mate at least. May his soul rest in peace, for truly his
life has been stormy.
When Julian Thomas (the Vaga-
bond) interviewed J. H. Brooke in Japan,
16 or 17 years ago, the Victorian ex-poli-
tician made particular inquiries about some
some Victorians, prominent in politics in
his time, who, he thought, must have since
risen to leading positions. All those he
named had failed to make their mark and
had practically dropped out of sight.
Though Henry Ayers and Jonn..
Colton have died lately, S. Australia has
still a fair forest of living ex-Premiers —
Boucaut, on the bench ; Downer, Play-
ford, Kingston, Holder and Solomon, in
Federal politics ; and Cockburn in London
waiting for the Coronation. Each of the
three S. A. judges has been Attorney-
General. Twelve years after Boucaut
had first been Attorney-General he gave
the portfolio to Way. Hanson died ; and
Way promptly hopped up to the Chief-
Justiceship. Boucaut didn’t like taking
it easy in the law-office himself ; so in his
three last Ministries he made himself suc-
cessively Lands, Works, and Treasurer.
It was the lately-deceased Colton who gave
Kingston his first office ; that was in ’B4.
Every man of the six who formed that
Ministry—Colton, Kingston, Rounsevell,
Jenkin Coles, Playford, and R. C. Baker
—was well over 6ft. and solid too. The
Ministry was more than 37ft. long. Col-
ton alone is dead. The new S.A. Oppo-
sition leader, John Darling, jun., has
never held office; but John, sen., joined
John Downer once, though after five
months of it he found that wheat-huying
was better business, and went out.
Martin Basedow, proprietor of the Adelaide
German paper, and one of the city’s most-respected
residents, died the other day. He had sat both in
Assembly and Council, while it was he who was
instrumental in first securing the election of Senator
John Downer to the local Parliament. Basedow
retired from the last Council contest because so
much public comment was being made on the fact
that his journal—the Sud Australische Zeitunq
—published news which was too favorable to the
Boers. Rather than carry the war to the public
platform Basedow gave up his candidature, though
he would probably have been returned, as his dis-
trict contained thousands of Germans.
AN ILL-WIND, &c.
“A dead bubonic rat having been found in the play-
ground of a Sydney suburban school the school has been
closed."—DAILY PAXBR.
TIDDIE : “ Look! Bubonic, too!”
ALEXANDER: “ Wotcher goin ’ to do wiv ’im? —
sell him?”
TIDDIE : “ Not much. I'm chock of waggin’ it
alone —I’m jest goin ’ to stick it under old
Whackem’s desk, and we’ll all git a ’oilyday.”
Where was the only Dan. O’Connor on the
occasion of the Sydney St. Patrick’s Day celebra-
tion ? His name wasn’t among the speakers at the
banquet. By the way, the latest exploit of the
gal-lant old dog was to save from drowning a lady
on Manly Beach. Another man who didn’t take
a very prominent part in the Sydney celebrations
was Mr. T. M. Slattery. His place as white-
haired boy at St. Mary’s now appears to be
occupied by Mr. W. P. Crick. Why ?
The Bulletin was recently knocked flab
by a machine called the Burroughs Adding and
Registering Machine, of which the Commercial
Banking Co., of Sydney use seven. It has a key-
board of figures as a typewriter has letters ; and
these are arranged in numerical order from one
half-penny up to one million pounds. To add
on the machine, you print off the amounts as you
strike off words on the typewriter, then you press
a key and the machine thereupon prints the exact
total. The machine is infallibly correct. Users
after a little practise can manipulate the machine
at the rate of two thousand cheques or dockets an
hour and have the total thrown m, while with the
pen they'could not write the amounts let alone
add them. The United Typewriter and Supplies
Co., of Sydney, Melbourne and Perth, is the
concern responsible for introducing the benefits of
this machine to Australia. They state that a
large number of Banks, and many of the leading
Drapery establishments in Sydney and Melbourne,
such as David Jones and Co., Ball and Welch,
Craig, Williamson and Thomas have them in use
for listing and adding up the daily dockets.*
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Agents for N.S. Wales: Sayers,
Allport and Potter, Sydney. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*


. . THE VERY BEST •.
fflaeonochie’s
DELICIOUS PRESERVES
Fresh Herrings. Kippered Herrings.
Herrings in Tomato Sauce. Pickles.
■Worcester Sauce. Potted Meats. Marmalade.
SWIFT <3c COMPANY,
7 Spring Street, Sydney.
. . . Australian Agents.
The HANSARD Fountain Pen
(Authorised by Hansard Staff).
14ct. GOLD NIB.
One Quality—The Best; One Price—The Lowest, 7/6 (Post Paid).
Fine, Medium, or Broad Points.
fd
Barrel of every Pen branded “ The Hansard.” ACCEPT NO SUBSTITUTE.
address on receipt of price. HANSARD PEN CO., Box 98,
All Stationers ; or sent to any
G.P.0., SYDNEY.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Hotel
Australia
RATES:
12s. 6d. per Day,
and upwards.
For the Summer Season.
The innumerable visitors who have stayed at “ The
Australia” during: Summer months have nothing
but praise for this famous Hotel. Ladies with
families obtain every comfort and attention at
a very reasonable cost. The rooms, furniture and
appointments of “The Australia” are unsurpass-
able. The Hotel has been built with every attention
to the needs of the climate. Hence, on the hottest
Summer day, the coolness of its rooms is as refresh-
ing as a cold bath.
J. URE SMITH (Late of Menzies’), Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors. —In the case of ethnological and
natural-history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific value.
“ Maud P.” writes :
Lately passing through the mining districts of Karan-
gahake and Waihi, M.L., through some of the grandest
of the wild scenery of the North, I was disgusted by the
advertisements alongside the road. The glorious Waihi
Gorge, with its towering rocky walls and its foaming
river brawling below, was simply daubed with hideous
signs from end to end. Every rock conspicuous for its
lonely grandeur and bold outline was disfigured by glaring
white lettering, urging some absurd quackery on the
public. Thus some of the finest scenery in the world is
literally ruined.
Yet the scenery of Maoriland should be pre-
served as a great national asset. Perhaps Premier
Seddon will take steps in the matter when he has
finished his S’African blood-baths.
* * * •
A part of Maoriland concerning which
very little is known is that large area of moun-
tainous country lying west and north of Milford
Sound. Sutherland, the guide who discovered
the famous Sutherland Falls, still goes off on
exploring expeditions, and expresses the belief
that live moas may be found in the fastnesses.
There are hundreds of miles of country which
have scarcely been traversed by anyone, much
less thoroughly explored, so there is a possibility
of his expectations being realised. On the shores
of Lake Te Anau, after moonlight nights, strange
footprints are found in the sand —a perfectly
round imprint, and apparently that of a four-
footed animal. There are wild cattle thereabout,
but these hoof-marks are not those of cattle. It
was Sutherland who caught the Notornus Mantelli
some years ago. In appearance the bird resembled
a pukaki or swamp-turkey, though consul :rably
larger. Sutherland declares that on several occa-
sions he has heard queer bellowings and snortings
in the river and lake, and on one occasion he saw
an animal swimming, but could not get near
enough to identify. Possibly the renowned
guide will one day come careering down the
bridle-track with a full-sized moa close behind
peeking the pattern off his pants. In the mean-
time, the Government is spending money in
making paths for the moas to practice sprinting
on. Tourists to this wild No-Man’s Land will do
well to take their running-shoes, and especially to
gractice quick starting. Everything, including
rovidence, is on the side of the man who can
spring off his tail at a moment’s notice, for the
flap of a good big moa’s foot on a Government
track is sadder than man’s original sin. And the
big muscles of a moa’s leg must have a lift like
Resurrection-day.
THE DROUGHT: A DRY-TRACK JOKE.
Letter from a New Hebridean Frenchman
who prides himself on his English :
Please to send our from your boat 100 corn bags in the
nex day, however you can an no give you thruble. Have
much corn to mak ready from nex shipp. The bussnis of
corn and cate from the duties which he speek is go down,
it is not finished how he speek the first time, I hop him
mais is not finish, therefor a think you send mo to ... .
Have received yesterday the visits from Captain to
English men of war, a news gentlemen, mak me and our
all the greats pleasure, please to give me the name of the
shipp and of the captain And seure me to mak you
trouble of one Sunday but cannot other, much wook and
no b6ys. —Your faithfull
* * • *
“ C.Z.” sends this :
The day was warem. I been roalen pine loggs into the
river. When I noticed my dog watching a Snake. Which
evaded the Sharp edg of my ax. The Irish Sitter
cawtiousley circled around and again pointed to the
reptile which I destroyed fatally. Having Compleated
my work I placed all the necesary appleances for my
ocyipation in a Oanoo £23 x 2ft. Wide and in a Most
aborigonated maner. I proceded with my Canien pas-
senger to another Sceen of opperaation. When about a
quarter of a mile from the shore, a Snake 4ft. 7in. long
coiled around my leg at the and. The motion of The
Maorie paddel. Seamd to irilate the intruder which
flatned its head fully 4in. in a northerlie dreckshun. And
NOT HAVING ANY.
JACK: “ Would you like to be a soldier , Jimmy?”
JIMMY: “Naw — nuthin’ in it. I seen one of them South Africa blokes, and ’e told me ’e was so
full of bullet-holes that ’e could breathe through his ribs like a butterfly.”
takeng a second coil around my unprotected instep, to
attenip to crush its head meant Deth owing to iny
posion. The Stren on my nervs was unberrabble I deved
into the stream. And on rising to the surface the
dreaded enemie was acros my sholder. I deved again
and on resing a Second time. My felow pasenger was in
the water beside me. I rekained my posion in my frale
craft and Grattan sworn after the black wrigling objek.
I bore down to his asistan and kiled the lothesum an
diggustin anemel.
* » * *
“ Baw-Baw ” : Re assertion, that bull-ant
cannot stand direct sun-rays at certain tempera-
ture : Experimented at Black .River, Gippsland,
with several varieties of ants, jumpers, soldiers,
&c., and killed them all in less than one minute.
Don’t know temperature, but fairly warm. Small
black ants, placed in the centre of a sheet of news,
paper exposed to the sun, shrivelled up before
getting to edge. But, m rk ; I wagered on result
of similar experiment at Broken Hill last summer,
and fell-in badly. Tried two kinds of ants on
different days, with shade temperature 108 and
112 deg. No visible effect. On the second day I
pegged two ants down with small hairpin for three
hours, but, when let go, they did go.
• * * •
A certain big N.S.W. sheep-man is well-
known to have a soft spot for anybody belonging
to near where he was raised. One day the
squatter was stooping over a sheep when a strange
voice asked : ‘ ‘ Any work to-day, Mr. ? ”
“Where do you come from?” the other asked
without looking up. . “ Ballyhooley(squatter’s
native place), said a voice. “Go down to the shed
and the overseer will start you,” said the boss.
Then he looked and saw a Chinaman. Much
blasphemy and a Chink doing even-time down the
road made the next act.
* * • «
“Reminiscing” in “M.A.P.”Mrs. Camp-
oell Praed (the lady who once represented
a character in a book “plucking a luscious
paddy-melon ” off a vine to eat) makes the
curious blunder of attributing to the sugar-
cane the sounds made by the maize—“ The
reeds met overhead and rustled in the wind,
making a chatter that would have meant
fairy-stories had one only understood the
language.” Now, cane-leaves clash like swords or
bayonets, or similar ironmongery, while the maize
—the noblest of grasses ” —has the soft, rustling
sound so pleasantly remembered. Again—“ The
tassels hung from the cob-sheaths—pale pink,
mauve, and tender green, glistening as though
they were spun-glass.” This is a pleasingly poetic
description of the maize-plants, but there is not a
“cob” on all the sugar-cane in Queensland !
* * • *
N.S.W. legislator R. A. Price is writing
a series of articles upon forestry, agriculture, and
other such matters as concern a tailor in the way
of his business. While Price stuck to thp shears
his clippings were not without interest, but when
he adventures into chronicling his own ideas the
result is lamentable. Thus he states that after a
drought the great plains of the west get baked so
hard on the surface that the water flows off into
the Darling and other rivers and causes huge
floods. If Mr. Price had ever seen the plains as
they are now, he would know that the land is like
a huge dry sponge, which would absorb inches of
rain before a drop flowed elsewhere, and if he had
ever seen a Darling flood he would know that the
expansion of the river is not caused locally, but
comes hundreds of miles from far-distant Queens-
land or the northern New England plateau.
Again, he speaks of the wild torrent of flood at
Bourkein the early ’9o’s. Said “wild torrent”
when it overflows the banks attains the terrific
speed of about three miles an hour. Price should
stick to the goose.
“ BobT R.” gives his opinion :
Re that opposition body to the A.W.U. : it may be a
pastoralist’s trick, but all the same it exactly expresses
the opinions of the bush-workers. Fully 90 per cent, of
the men object to the arbitrary raising of wages. “£1 a
hundred ” is all that was ever demanded, and if a vote
were taken to-morrow any proposal to make it 255. would
be defeated by a large majority. Another objection is the
membership-fee, which is now £1 per year. The workers
naturally ask what is to be done with the £20,000 or so
collected? Into whose pockets is it going ? As a matter
of fact, the A.W.U. is fast becoming an oligarchy, and the
men are a bit doubtful of the disinterestedness of its
bosses. The bush-worker may be rough, but he’s just,
and won’t stand any “ funny ” business.
But the A.W.U. is managed by officers elected on
a thoroughly democratic system. Why don't the
men kick them out if, as “Bob R.” says, they
don’t belive in them ?
* • * *
“ Quilp N.” : Listen, M'Cooey !
A runaway fireman from an English boat lately applied
to a Maoriland sheep-farmer for a job. The latter was
hard up for men, so told the fireman to come back in the
morning and bring his dogs.
“Dogs? I ain’t got no dogs.”
“ Well, how are you going to round up sheep without
dogs ?”
“ Oh, I can run. I could run like blazes when I was a
kid.”
The sheep-farmer laughed.
Next morning at 6.30 the stoker turned up, and the
boss showed him a hill where he said there were 200
wethers. These had to be yarded by nine o’clock.
“ Orright,” said the new hand, and started off. The
boss came back at nine and was thunderstruck to see a
lot of sheep and a hare lying down in the yard. The
stoker sat on the fence. He was quite fresh.
“ Well,” said the boss, “ d’ye mean to say you’ve yarded
them. How did you do it ? ”
“ Oh,” replied the other scornfully, “them white ’uns
can’t run worth a damn, but”—with a note of admiration
in his voice—“ that little brown bloke can run like a
bloomin’ train.”
» » * *
“Vic.”: During my first “pad” in
N.S.W. it was usual, when I met a swaggie, for
him to ask if I had any Deadwood-Dieks to swop.
He would rarely have fewer than 20 in his swag,
and always a couple in his shirt for the day’s
reading. Also, I once saw a tramp, while walking
along, reading a Deadwood, fall over a log. He
lay there until he had finished the yarn. These
travellers had usually quondong buttons in their
waistcoats and sometimes corks on their hats.
* * » *
There is a N.S.W. squatter who, no matter
how beautifully his sheep may be shorn, always
wants them ‘ ‘ closer—closer ! ” The men got so
sick of this that, at last shearing, they had await-
ing the squatter’s arrival, one morning, an extem-
porised barber’s-pole, under which was a placard,
inscribed: “Wanted, 20 good barbers to shave
the M sheep. No shearers need apply.”
• • * *
According to the North Coast (N.S.W.)
Beacon’s last issue (15/3/’2), “Her Majesty [pre-
sent tense] bears her years so lightly because she
spends nearly the whole day in the open air, is
regular in her habits, and orders her life very
minutely.” Evidently the news of the death of
Victoria Bona has not yet penetrated to the
recesses of the Big Scrub !
* * * *
H. J. Mac. : The suggestion made by a
correspondent (B. 8/3/’2) that the leather-head and
the bell-bird are identical is only mixing things
still more. The leatherhead has its head covered
with featherless leather —like black skin, whereas
the bell-bird’s head is covered with jet-black
feathers. The latter whistles with marvellous
skill, but the former approaches nearer to talking
than any other wild Australian bird. Moreover,
the former is aggressively insectivorous, whereas
the latter belongs to the order melaphagidice, or
honey.-eaters.
A medical man writes :
Dear Bulletin.—l had the following, about eight years
ago, from the late Rev. W. Moore, one-time Wesleyan
missionary in the Fijis. A native teacher on ’Mbau,
having leprosy bad, consented to be “ smoked.” A small
hut was accordingly built (about Bft. high), and a fire was
made in the centre of the floor. The patient, stripped,
was hung head-downwards and branches of the coral
tree (’ndrala) piled on the fire. The pungent smoke irri-
tating eyes, nose, mouth and lungs; the heat and the
struggles of the inverted victim produced a violent per-
spiration. After about half-an-hour the old priest, or
medicine-man, pronounced the patient “done,” and he
was cut down, scraped with a potsherd, rubbed and
washed. The effect of this heroic treatment was that all
signs of leprosy disappeared, the man’s skin, however, re-
maining permanently whiter than before the “smoking.”
My informant assured me that many cases were thus
cured, the disease, I take it, being in these instances
tubercular or nodular leprosy—the clinical form in which
the products of the “bacillus leprse” are limited to the
subcutaneous tissues. Measles has been known to arrest
this form of leprosy, and small-pox checks it for a time,
while erysipelas causes the tubercles to subside. In each
of these diseases there is an acute skin reaction, and in
the case under notice the man’s skin reacted so power-
fully and the pigment-containing cells were influenced so
that the skin became permanently whiter.—S.F.
• * » *
“ Paka ” : To “ X.” (B. 10/8/’01) :
Not generally known that all animals with an even
number of toes,' such as the cow, kneel when lying down,
and then lower their hind-quarters, whereas the horse,
like all other “ odd ’’-toed animals, lowers his hinder-end
first, keeping his fore-legs almost straight until he is well
upon the ground. But, in arising, the horse thrusts out
his fore-legs, gives his body a forward lurch, and gets up
with fore-legs still straight; whereas the cow remains
kneeling until her hinder - part is erect, and then
straightens the front legs one at a time.
* » * *
“ Pelican ” : Have observed many cases
of zamia-poisoning amongst cattle in Q. coast dis-
tricts. At the more advanced stage, the horns
droop and the backbone (at the loins) gets like a
tallow-candle on a hot day. Remove a drooping
horn and the original solid interior is found to
have been replaced by a kind of mucus. Have
seen beasts which could not run ten paces without
falling down, from loin-collapse, as fat as seals;
such beasts, when killed, showing (bar spinal decay)
apparently healthy interior organs and sound flesh.
I have myself been compelled unwillingly to sub-
sist on zamia beef—for good or ill, no one knows.
Strange to say, however, I have known a bullock
to be fed on zamia for two years, for scientific
observation purposes, without developing the least
symptom of the poisoning.
• * » *
For the first time on record Teryawvnia
station-homestead, on the Lower Darling, is
“dried out.” The country has been held for
about 48 years.
* * * •
“A.P.R.”: Re camaraderie of animals.
An old grey mare and a sad-eyed, ragged ewe
regularly parade the streets of a Northern town;
they are inseparable. Also, writer once knew an
old wether to live with a mob of cattle for weeks.
At first they tried to shoo him away, but he stuck
to them like a poor relation and was finally
accepted as inevitable.
• * * •
“ H.P.” : Have often noticed that if a
locomotive’s smoke blows over cattle they
promptly skedaddle, whereas sheep and horses
take no notice. Can the evolutionists explain the
why-ness of this ?
BEER WOULD HAVE BEEN BETTER.
POOR TENANT (complaining to Mr. Aarons, who
has called to collect the rent): “Look 'ere,
the kitchen-cellar is full of water.”
MR. AARONS : “Veill vat did you expecdt!
Champagne? ”


FOR
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS.
Terrified by Apparitions.
A peculiar story concerning fancied apparitions
has been told to the local press by a Miss Viola
Dawson, residing at 156 Alfred-street, North
Sydney. “ Four years ago (she relates) I had to
leave school because I imagined that I could see
black faces looking at me wherever I went. My
nerves were so unstrung that St. Vitus’ dance
was induced, and until recently, when Dr.
Williams’ pink pills for pale people cured me, I
suffered severely. I was so nervous that I would
start at the slightest sound, my hands and face
twitched involuntary, I lost my appetite and fell
away so much that 1 was almost too weak to walk.
The tonics I at first tried did not relieve me, but
after taking one boxful of Dr. Williams’ pink pills
I felt greatly improved, and by continuing to take
them I progressed nicely. Three boxfuls made
me a strong, healthy girl, free from all weakness
and nervousness, and I now enjoy the very best
of health.” Indeed, Miss Dawson’s attractive
appearance and fine complexion are worthy of
remark as showing the great value of Dr.
Williams’ pink pills in inducing perfect health;
Being a nerve tonic and blood builder they act
directly on the blood and nerves—enriching the
blood and freeing it from all impurities, and
making the nerves taut. They cure hysteria,
heart palpitation, dyspepsia, biliousness, anaemia
and debility, rheumatism, neuralgia, skin diseases,
ailments of children, &c. From chemists and
storekeepers and the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
Queen’s Place, Sydney, two and nine per box, six
boxes fifteen and threepence, post free. A boxful
or two of Dr. William’s pink pills will, by
strengthening the constitution, free one from all
ordinary risks of plague.
Freetrade
Watch
Prices.
Still obtain with
us and will
do so.
WHY ?
Well —we bought thousands of pounds
worth of Watches and Jewellery before
the duties (27 J per cent,) and'they cost
money. We don’t want to keep the
Watches (every one we sell is a good
advertisement for us) and we have use
for the money.
We are quite satisfied to make one profit
on a purchase.
Then, too
We greatly increase our Customers by
doing things well. We jean sell*.more
watches at a £ that at 27/6—so we are
notcharginganyextrapriceon Watches
landed before the duty. They are still
at London Prices.
Cl
/
s
London Prices
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House in
Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
Gent.’s Silver Open-Face Lever .. £2 2
Gent.’a Metal ~ „ .. 1 10
Gent.’s Gold 18c. Hunting Lever 12 12
Ladies’ „ 18c. ~ ~ 7 7
15 Years Guarantee.
o—ls Jewels
o—ls „
0
0
“ Morbla ” : The N. Q.nigger now lives,
whenever possible, in close proximity to a slaughter-
house, barring the very far north blackfellow, who
still retains some of his old independence. The
entrails, etc., are the niggers’ for the asking, and
they bury them in the sand till wanted. I don’t
know how they manage to keep the dogs from the
pantry. No respectable.blacks’ camp has less than
50 or 60 dogs of ever}' size and breed and stage of
disease.
MISS SYLVIA BLACKSTON.
Photo, by Talma, Sydney.
The Australian boy at his best. He was
named Hoban, and lived at Warragul (Vic.).
Bitten by a snake on the finger, he chopped off
with an axe a section of the member ; reflection
suggested that the axe hadn’t taken off enough, so
he amputated another joint, and then rode into
the township. He is, of course, progressing well:
it would take I a lot of snake-poison to stop a heart
like his.
“ W. J. S.” :
“ Why swaggies
don’t peddle”
(Scotty W., 8.,
15/3/’O2). They
do peddle, and
are to be met
on the southern,
western, and nor-
thern roads with
“ lines ” of Scrip-
ture texts, insect-
powder, patent
solder, fly-catch-
ers, tinker’s ware,
onion-nets, ham-
mocks, etc. ; but
at best it is only
a tucker-business.
Halters, lamps
made from jam-
tins, paper-flow-
ers, green - hide
bridles, carved
stockwhip
handles, station-
ery, cheap music,
cookery - books,
etc., I have also
seen peddled
along the road by
swagmen ; also
about bush-
towns, stations,
show - grounds,
&c. The majority
of the vendors
were habitual
boozers, with a
sprinkling of
“ talent,” a few
ex - professional
men, and a large
percentage of
mechanics and
nondescripts.
There is an allied
class, known as
buskers, jugglers,
“forties,” two-up
men, tramp-jour-
nalists, tinkers,
raffle - promoters,
and other indus-
trials not often
heard of by the
city dweller.
They are al 1
typical of this
country and its
people. Shearing
time is their har-
vest.
Miss Sylvia Blackston,, whose portrait
appears in this issue, is a young lady who has
achieved remarkable success as an Australian
waltz-writer, being the composer of the harmonious
“Eruba,” “ Silverstream,” and many other
waltzes. Miss Blackston is the possessor of a rich
contralto voice, and, having been wall trained, is
now about to make her professional debut, which
will occur in Sydney Centenary Hall on Wednes-
day, April 9th. The debutante will be assisted
on the occasion by some of the most prominent
local artists.
Szczepauik, the young Polish inventor,
has produced a textile fabric which is alleged,
though fairly thin and light, to be absolutely
bullet and stab-proof. According to a German
paper: “The smooth, pale yellow fabric consists
of undyed silk ; its resistance to shots and stabs
is owing to elasticity and cohesion due to the
peculiar connection of the threads, and the most
powerful lunges with a sharp dagger directed
against the breast of a man wearing a vest of the
stuff rebounded powerlessly from the texture,
without leaving a mark.”
Joaquin Miller, the poet of the Sierras,
publishes in San Francisco Examiner this Christ-
mas address to Lord Salisbury :
And England’s lion is shorn and shamed ?
And England’s valor is dead to-day ?
And England’s daring is dull and tamed ?
And England’s heart is unmanned, men say ?
No, never a whit; give England’s men
A cause, fit cause, and behold them then !
But send them forth to loot and to burn,
Turn babes and women and bent old men
Unhoused to the rain, to ruthless turn
The plowshare back to the sword, and then
Ask them to believe that this blood-soaked sod
Is won from women in the name of God ?
Your soldier is scarce the “machine ” to-day
You mowed with at Lexington, Waterloo.
He is learning to read, to think and to say,
To see and to feel, as well as to do.
And he feels : How braver to build a town
Or a home for babes than to burn one down.
He remembers a pale Boer lad who bled—
Bled praying and fighting, and fighting alone—
Fighting and dying ’mid a ring of dead
Gathered about in a gory zone.
And he almost envies that dead boy there
In battle harness, with his yellow hair.
Listen to this ! A battle was on :
The usual battle of twenty to one ***
The battle was over, the British were gone ;
Their officer dead ; one empty gun ***
Yes, your “machine“ in the heat of the fray,
Had darr J to think and to do that day.
" THE ROCKS
Disappearing Sydney: A bit of the once-aristocratic quarter.
MAKING BACK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
S you ride the Lachlan frontage
You will meet them on the track,
Making back!
With their heads to station grass,
Trotting wide to let you pats,
Waggon-leader, station hack,
Bay and chestnut, brown and black,
Making back!
All along the Western rivers
Making back!
Broken hobble, trailing rein!
Old rogues making home again!
Drover’s pony, shearer’s hack,
Gray and creamy, roan and black,
Making back!
Through the gaps and open gateways
Making back!
Standing, when the free road fails,
With their heads across the rails,
Breasting till the timbers crack,
Looking forward down the track,
Making back!
So we tread the ocearMwacher,
Making back!
Trying to go wide of Fate,
Fretting at the boundary-gate
Where the great tides heave and slack 4
Oft the shadows falling black
Find a heart upon the track,
Making back!
WILL OGILVIE.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
Delhi: You don’t say so ! What a pity Ned
,nd Dan Kelly, Joe Byrnes and Steve Hart had not been
oorn twenty years later. What ideal soldiers of Empire
they would have made ! Stephen Somerset; Buluetin
wouldn’t print (let alone re- print) a serial story from the
pen even of Charles Dickens Lead-Line : Too elaborate
and long-winded. Could have been put into | the space.
Yarrum : The Department doubtless finds the set-
phrase convenient; and in any case “ reckoned ” wouldn’t
supply the place of “ deemed.” “ Reckon ” is erroneously
much' used in Australia for “ believe,” “ suppose,” or
“consider.” Instance in your own par—“ which they
reckon cures rheumatism.”... .M.L.R. : Well, you’ve had
hard luck in your confidences : as a matter of fact men
don’t tell. A few male creatures occasionally commit
the mean crime but the healthy average man will lie
while he has a tongue, to cover over a woman’s tracks....
Ben Sun : One excel’ent; one good ; one mediocre
Pedagogue: “Briggs” appeared B. 20/l/’94—p. 24
L. : Will print “In the Street.” Other rather
doubtful R.J. W. : That rat can’t die in these columns.
Awakino: Don’t, care much. And your mermaiden
with her white legs is all wrong. She should have a tail.
.. W. Wishart : Know of no such book in English. The
official publications in Spanish could be obtained from
the Statistical Department at Buenos Ayres, but that’s
a good way off Wallaroo: Rather like “Honey-
moon.” A. Von S. : Good sketch in a way, but no
climax, and gets nowhere in particular The Cynic :
Stories about baronets in Mayfair are remote and London
JouRNAL-y. Can’t you give us something about a re-
vengeful Australian duke in the backblocks of Venice ?...
Tarbov. Will probably print... .J.B. : Accepted
Wm. T.: Suggestive of Melbourne bathos-bard Fitz-
gibbon L.M.D. : “Two Women” accepted. “Flan-
nelled Fool” bowled out first ball John Polding:
“Philosopher” sounds too hollow Uloola : “Love
Punishes” doubtful.. ..Bohemienne : Rather weak
Jundab : “Valley of Death” is a patient piling-up of
gruesome adjectives and ghoulish verbs and fleshless
interjections Bronson E. : Moderate tales rather
badly told. Still, some promise about them... ; .
M. : Woman’s thought on war has been often expressed
before and your verse is—well hardly verse. But this bit
for compactness : *"
For us no waving banners ; no supreme
Triumphant hour of conquest. Our’s the slow
Dead torture of uncertainty ; each day
The bootless battle with the same despair ;
And when at last your vict’ries reach our ears,
There reaches with them to our sad pitying hearts
The thought of countless homes made desolate,
And other women weeping lor their dead.
Will J. : Some “go ” in the versification, but all are
irritatingly unequal. “Test” most nearly approaches
publication-value Fardowner : Too far down!
A. H. Uckle : Workmanship not deft enough.. ..Auster :
“Ganger’’not ill-written, but the dream-device is very •
old and tired. “Nomad’’has good idea, but the rhap-
sodical treatment kills it....A.P.R. : Pretty good, but
encumbered with too much detail. Don’t remember
story referred to. Are .you sure it has not been printed ?
.. E. Nash : Interesting, but quite out of our line... Bush-
man : You’ve given no address. Any medical man of stand-
ing.. . .G.F.M. : Situation comic, butsubject unsavory and
treatment dull G.A.P. : “ Possumtown” rather cheap
and obvious... .A. Dean: Lacks all force and grace of
style Otto J.: Rather long and labored J.O.R. :
Good incident: style lacks ease and spirit... .R.F. : Has
little to commend it Waif: Your sketch has the
colors, but they are not put on with any skill
0. M‘K. : As one instance —Marshal Massena, Napoleon’s
“cherished child of victory,” was a Jew... .Yellow Boy :
Bush Dentist (no name-and-address) will d 0.... Barry
Sprayton : Which of the two stories was printed —“ The
Phrenologist” or “ The Palmist?” The two motives are
identical Nell: Good subject, but not quite enough
snap. You narrowly miss acceptance-point and should
try again... .Jimmy the Ringer: Laborious humor....
Inold : “ Her tear splatters on a dark object; ah ! it is
he.” That isn’t poetry... Killaloe : “ Australian Liberty ”
rather flat... .Raupo : “ Pro-Boer” dropped out... .Debe :
Your billows are hardly even wet.. .H.V.N.: One accepted.
Two under consideration... Alan (S.A.): Declined.....
Fayre : Regretfully declined Womerah : Thanks for
letter.... I. M.B. : Many good lines in “Tick,” but too
many others are only commonplace J.K. : Anyhow,
three dictionaries say that “ cerements ” is a dissyllable,
and that “ towards ” has the accent on the first syllable.
And, if we stop to argue further, the pubs, will be closed.
N.S. Welshman : Probably the salaries and wages of
public servants in N.S.W. do reach £II,OQO a day, but the
“well-known employer” who complained about “the
taxpayer ” having to pay this amount uselessly for a public
holiday was a silly ass. The railway and tramway men,
police, gaol officials, &c.— the biggest part of the service,
in fact—went on earning its wages as usual. And the
bulk of the public servants are paid out of railway and
tram fares, postages, &c.—-not out of taxes Y. : Have
doubts about “Getting Home.”... .Spud Digger: Our
cow writes better verse with her tail.. ..Tyro : The awful
spelling in the Watchman probably arises from Parson
Dill’s frenzied resolve to spell differently from the Cardi-
nal Ex-Sergeant : When you say that Vic. cohentin-
gent officer is “the type of a drill-sergeant of the press-
gang days,” the inference is that you have never
read up the officers of that period. In these good
old times the Vic. cohentingent would have ave-
raged 50 or 100 lashes each over that mutiny affair....
Adelaide : If your Adelaide Smiths are getting mixed up
we will consider the advisability of calling the knighted
one Jones in future bv way of distinguishing him....
Tackra : One nearly good enough ; the other fiat as the
top of the Dead Sea....N. Gritan : Interest not sufficient
for space... .Bonic : It’s not much use speculating as to
plague returns yet. Wait till the cold nights make
people shut their windows ; then the plague will
score, if at all Eller: Name of the bank?
Frank Marchant : Aren’t 3 T ou aware that British Consols
and many other public securities are fixed for a certain
number of years, and after that repayable when the
Government pleases (on so many months’ notice), but at
no other time ? The Argus suggests simply that Aus-
tralia should adopt an old, safe principle which it has
foolishly neglected, and you rave at enormous length
about it as a new joke... .Sweep : Not certain, but your
letters would be stopped at the post-office, anyhow....
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
J.B. : A mere pun.. . .H.C.L. : Ben llur subject would
have done but for the fire-calamitv.... L. Wilk : Good
feeling in your drawing, but it’s too wooden yet. And
your jokes are wooden, t 00... .R. Gale : Can do nothing
with it... .Charles D. (8.H.) : Unavailable.. . .Ted : May
possibly use one if artist likes it well enough Mabel
8, : All unduly mystic... .P.II. : A forceless sort of thing.
Subject doesn’t lend itself to illustration.. . .T.B.W. : Not
serviceable... .W.G.G. : A good try in a most printable
medium, but not of interest enough.... Pat : Unavailable.
. ...F. Brewer: Useless... .C.E.T. (B.) : Very flit....
Arthur: No g00d... .N.C.R. : Policeman’s-foot wheeze
played out—at last!... .Bert W. :An effective little bit.
... .T.W. : Will submit eyeglass sketch as idea... .Tomil :
Sorry can’t do anything with it....Wal, T.: Neither
usable in any form... .G. Ryan : Camel sketch would be
interesting if effectively drawn. Is it really’ a true bill,
and is there a photo, extant?


Dip NT KNOW IT WAS LOAOED* SCAjoW
IS NOW ON - OUR ARTIST DRCAHj
That he shc/t up shop "Ti© po
A 6iT Of SHOOTIN4
Procures a qun from ms u*cle . andrs 13 1
CRITICAL OV£ A it. "yOtt'RE SUftfi ThiS '
(2) &P»T LOADED’, HE SAys- — —
Borrows a doCi Prom a frie*o
*X>*iy A week muvo
___ CARE Of HIM HES Hot Te Qo
3g§S HEAR The WATER / —W
ON ANy w / £ \ .
fi^ NT \ ji /1
y £ N j£ RF £ ls m£ YK AD £tf LN
qof Wik-? ci'mfe TfclP If WOR*W WH»LC-
-fo FOLLOW Uta distance. .
I /y, BRoTh£R aRTiST\3
)Vw (7 ) *Hr LENDS him A Boy^ 3 * J
DO 1b CARRY The C,AM£ , I 0 SQUARE. M
\ meals a pAy is all he. wants 4rGiv6 him aliTtle. M
OP THIS fHOLOINQ OUT A ROPES END) NIGHT MORNING, ffl
nothing like it For crowing children. |g
*r
l-EAfOCK- ferfT
Pj A Fellow have a y
* Quiet Sundays A
REST wifHoyT you /
COMINC, A
g* HIM ? " ' Jig
(6)^
(gHE-/ PlMc.e.
wio The. FqresT
Mlil'lllllliii/iiiiiriHUiiiiiiniiniHini 1
jack P<nncTLy
HEARD UP Ti RJLt.
ds)3 Jl (n
\ mQ
/ms. it, mt
\ J\n £R SWOfM
\gfe A POCKFT COfl PASS
Jrfflfcy/X' Tut Sum's
#a^^A L ' r, TuP£ . The.
/|ll|k WHOLE PAKTy
jP®s£ Thin* .T
o v * OV,^ABLe -
XaSjYJ To MAKE A
'ttPQjp ot£ U«E IW
A- Nj-E DIRECTotI
Uhirhi/ic insTjncT of The \ /-
r—.^uoci. haVwg warnep Them of rv>
If Fl/RTHLR ADVENTURE Tut? WERE.
//PREPARED For .BUTIf ONLi
41 Turned out -r> be a mild & gentle stranger
L&SSSTS A umt ,l.j
■ ,Wr
v FRAT 4 Rn rifw iTit
sfRANqcR vine is me
Sote occupaht of mt Bar
" I SIEM TANARUS?) HAVE. SEEN Your face BlfOKt
SOHEWHERt“ SAJD OUR ARTijr '
OH • you Knew he. as the jukea/ork
. I E>P€CT— iVt-ftEWCEOVAUS VOW —
WHAT ARE y oo? Bulletin artist
" Thousand D£Vils ‘ ***??'!»*
(H) '
/\\Sp ArfolHtfc
Up DRESSEJ> itJ
K'HAKi "out HUMTin''
SA/S HE "BEEN WT
Huntin' Aiu mt
M9 H«S 6Ac£^
p M /l<c
(14)
lAMPioair.—PiEAjt BE. care fa of M y ctfrunw'
FINDS X* LOT lx7j ' \ iiMfff --
of Gosiwess i ft unrs
Waiting X HOM eV, sont
For. him f //SX 3 vne £«k i /-"IC)
WHEW V v K J
A SPORTING ITEM.


G> R u(r r
S.yc l/rncs By Mops UHteRSTUDIfI)
Ilf<nTfi*T‘*"S by 3*"?*
f'jARY Had a l i t tl e k* r
ns FL^'THeVC'M^jM^
7WAr
Ma Ry vVE N r
Tde KM k/aUU^eTo^ 0 .
t T Poured Her T»
17 ONE 7>AV
& Mj> j)F*W Trie RuLF
JA|D DoW/n $y n- P
5/\iD
Pats nweß
T* y»oou
4a important development yesterday was the discovdfy by the health' authorities that 4 rat taken
from the premises of the public-school at Ultimo had died of plague. The Board of Health ciecided to
close the school and have it thoroughly disinfeeted. As the Easter holidays begin on Friday, thi* will
only necessitate closing on one school day. In connection with the discovery of the plague rat at this
school the remarks of the Minister for Public Instruction, Mr. Perry, in an interview on Tuesday, are
interesting. Mr. Perry said there was not the slightest grounds for fearing that the plague would break
out in any public-school, or that any public-school would contribute In any way co the outbreak. If
every private dwelling and bosiness-house, he claimed, were kept as clean as the schools, there would bn
little plague in thp city.
' / W of fyr i?Mf
/ Tlet/qrt
on foR rH?
T>o€sn’t WAjrt £NOU<iti,
<% *6«?osu.< Cof/tye "
jjh fftiral 3. A
jSTY
I JL •pjjo-btta.yh^
I leer, driy Ker-j j/ svi,
i cy^j,
fr I
I
i®i Pren ? ier B , arton going to England with
»loose leg and a loose tongue, oris he going,
M the repregentative of Parliament
rrrL^^r t r' a f hority to one wor d as
\ e Future > to make one pledge for
tary^authority 0 ! 11, roC ?' ve< * BPocificParliairien-
•f Australian seamen. If Edmund'‘Barton
—■tho weak, the sociable—goes to England
with a free hand, the result is likely to be
disastrous to Australia. He has no claim to*
that free hand. He should be quite content
to remain what he constitutionally is—the
mouthpiece ‘of Parliament, and nothing
more.
I 'if Siik tors* fa'"},
U&mu - Acs!cj™ 04
n 1 / W *7
fu 1 JZ _
\-3. H’
\ 'A % ftf ' <,
y s«to^ A
<
\ypg-* ~
Therefore : lefc.ns ®uz?le our dog Tohy,
O'e-iVtfyllT) At sHo*)
‘JHZ r HI(fHLy (prypjfaDEV - I s<*-j
l*/oult/go H ttjupd touyd Qyd
*{clK<i fook; af I*.1 *.
ly a cljtyefl lf,§ tipple*^ 9, P
sfare.d df *4«> Y oute af Y* ur
o a.
THINGS IN GENERAL.


A. SAUNDERS’
Watches, Clocks, Jewellery, and Silverplate at FREETRADE PRICED*
Save 25 per cent, to s') per cent. Showrooms: 815 GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
/
%
N
FREETRADE
PRICES.
NO
ADVANCE.
A. SAUNDERS.
Strong, Reliable LEVERS, “The Challenge,” 15s.
The Unrivalled Lever, in Black or Nickel, 20s ;
perfect timekeeper. The London Lever, new J-plate
model, 255; in Solid Silver, £2 2s; in Double Case,
£2 10s £3. Rotherham LEVERS, £3 10s, £4, £5,
£6, £7; £B. Gold WATCHES, £4 4s, £5 ss, £6 6s,
£7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O. Mind, we guarantee
you the utmost satisfaction, “ otherwise we will
exchange watch for you.”
Send for illustrated book of particulars, post free.
Solid Gold CHAIN (Single or Double), £2 10s, £3,
£3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5. 15ct. Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6,
£6 10s, £7, £B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, las, 20s.
Send for Price Illustrated Book.
A. SAUisDERS.
2-Bar Gold, Diamond Cut Amethyst, 22s 6d ; 15ct.
Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Registered Gold 2-Bird 2-Heart Amethyst BROOCH,
20s ; Pearl Set Bird, 22s 6d ; 15ct. Gold, £2.
15ct. Gold Bar and Scroll BROOCH, Pearls and Red
Stone, 355; quite new.
snip™
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Buckle BROOCH, Set withß.blue or red
stones, 12s 6d; latest style.
A. SAUNDERS.
(Registered) Gold Secret Name BROOCH*
lact. Gold, Diamonds, £2 10s, £3, £4. Any
Name or Motto Free.
Six different patterns, similar.
mi
A. SAUNDERS.
Latest Secret Name BROOCH, Red or Blue
Stone, Three similar patterns, 20s and 255.
Any Name Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
026 Latest Half Moon and Star Gold
BROOCH, Pearlette, Pearls and Red or Blue
Stones, 21s ; 15ct. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold BROOCH, 2 Hearts, 2 Bars,
Diamonds, Pis 6d ; ve> - v neat.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Motto Registered Gold “ Dinna Forget
BROOCH and Amethysts, 9ct. Gold, ITs 6d;
15et. Gold, 30s; 18ct. Gold, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
3 Set. 2-Bar Pure Diamond Double Cut, £2.
loot. Gold BROOCH, 2-Bar Scroll, Diamond and
Ruby Set, £2; very choice.
fd
V
A. SAUNDERS.
Newest Solid Gold Name BROOCH, 7s 6d : with
Raised Flowers each side (Any Name) 15ct.
Gold, 15s; Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
Extra Strong 15ct. Gold, Diamonds, Rubies, and
Pearls, £3 ss; Five Diamonds, £4, £5.
%
m
m
'YZ
Ladies’ Curb Gold Chain,
Snap Padlock, 255, 30s,
355, £2 ss, £3; 15ct. £2los,
£3, £4, £4 10s, £5, £6, £7
10s, £B, £9, £lO.
10s extra for Key Pad-
lock.
All with Safety Chain.
A. SAUNDERS.
Bamboo Gold BRACELET, all the style, price according to
width, 20s, 255, 30s, £2, £2 10s; 15ct. Gold £3, £4, £o.
A. SAUNDERS.
DIAMOND BRACELET, 15ct. Gold, three Pure Double
Cut Diamonds, with Safety Chain, £5.
9ct. Gold Square or half-round BRACELET, 3 Red
Blue Stones, £2 ; very neat and cheap.
A. SAUNLERS.
Nicely Chased Gold BRACELET, 25s ; very neat and pretty.
THE FEDERAL TARIFF.
THIS I HAVE ANTICIPATED.
MY CASH PURCHASES have been
enormous, and I am in a position
to sell at FREETRADE PRICES.
£32,000 worth of Watches, Jewellery,
and Silverplate to choose from. It will
save you 25 per cent, to 50 per cent.
This Is a consideration.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Wish Bone and Arrow, with Red
Stone, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Bar, Raised Flowers, 5s 6d; Larger,
6s 6d ; Largest size, 7s 6d.
These are indeed very pretty.
"CRSn ptra Xjsa ‘ s\z ‘azis
aaSiui ‘sgt ‘HOOOHS pire JV.ft-z
•saaaNnys v
Gold 2-Bar Ivy Leaves, Chain and Heart,
10s 6d ; very neat.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Mizpah BROOCH, 2 Hearts, 10s
larger, 12s 6d; a nice Brooch.
A. SAUNDERS.
loot. Solid Gold, Pure Double Cut
Diamonds, £lO.
9ct. Gold, two Twisted Bars, Bell and Chain,
12s 6d; Amethyst Heart, 13s 6d.
Gold 2-Bar BROOCH Scroll, Pearl Set with Red
Stone, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS'
. La te S t Turquoise and Curb Gold Chain Padlock Bracelet, the very latest London style, £2 15s. In nice Silk Case.
4®* ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Silver Hunting Keyless, 255, 30s, £2,
£2 10s, £3.
Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3, £4, £5;
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
ALL GUARANTEED.
11
13
14
15
A. SAUNDERS’
EREETRADE PRICES.
10. Round LINK, 9ct. Gold, £2, £2 10s,
£3 ; 15ct., £4,,£5.
11. —Rope Pattern, 9ct. Gold, £2, £2 10s,
£3 ; 15ct., £4, £5.
12. Curb Pattern, Oct. Gold, £2, £2 10s,
£3 ; 15ct.. £4, £5.
13. Rope and Ball, 9ct. Gold, £2, £2los,
£3; 15ct., £4, £5.
14. Curb and Link, £3, £4, £5, £6.
15. —Chain and Kon /l 'P £4 to £7 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Pearl and Turquoise
Floral and Ribbon BROOCH,
£2 10s.
London’s Newest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Pearl and Turquoise
Heart BROOCH, £2 2s.
Tbe Latest Style.
Post Card Gold CHARM, 10s.
Any Name Free.
Silver, gilt, 5s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold LOCKET, 15s ;
16ct. Gold, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Dinna Eorget,
10s 6d.
Our Ownßegistered
Design.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ot. Gold, 2 Hearts, Diamond,
and Ruby, 85s; 2 Diamonds, £2 ss.
A. SAUNDEKS.
9ct. Gold Shield LINKS,
10s 6d ; Silver, '.2s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS (Regis-
tered) Gold LINKS, 20s ;
15ct. Gold, 32s 6d; Silver and
Gold, 10s; all Silver, ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold SMeld and
Dumbbell LINKS, 12a 6d;
15ct. Gold, 255;
Silver, 8s 6d.
9ct. Gold Stone
RING, 10s;
3 similar patterns.
15ot. Solid Gold Opal LINKS,
■with Initial, £2 10s.
Extra Strong.
A. SAUNDERS.
Beautifully Chased, 9ct. Gold,
large size LINKS, 22s 6d.
Plain, 21s, or with initials
nicely chased, 22s 6d ;
15ct. Gold, £2 ; Silver, 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Full Set of STUDS, Link Collar
Stud, and 8 Fronts, 9ct., 355.
Similar style, 25s and 30s ;
15et. Gold, £2, £2 10s, £3.
ALT. FREETRADE PRICES.
Solid Gold Turquoise
and Pearl, 20s.
Newest Style.
Mizpali Gold
CHARM, 49.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Hearts, 12s 6d ;
15ct. Gold, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct, Solid Gold LINKS.
Plain 17s 6d, 20s, 255;
15ct. Gold, £2, £2 ss, £2 10s.
Monogram, 2s 6d extra.
Gold Shield Link and
Dumbbell, 15s 6d;
15ct. Gold, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Signet Plain RING,
9ct. Gold, 20s, 25s ; 15et. gold,
30s, 35s ; 18ct., £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDEBS.
18ct. Solid Gold,
Pure Double Cut Dia-
mond, £3 ;
other size stone, £3 10s,
£4, £5.
18ct, Solid Gold,
3 Opals, 4 Diamonds, £5;
Smaller Diamonds,
£2 10s, £3, £3los, £4.
18ct. Gold Buckle BING,
Diamond,
and 2 Bubies or
Sapphires,
£2 10s.
18ct. Solid Gold Diamond
Band, £2, £2los, £3;
15ct. Gold, 30s.
18ct. Buttercup
Single stone Diamond
RING-,
£3, £4, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold,
3 Pure Diamonds,
2 Opal Hearts, £4 10s.
Latest Style.
IFfS
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Band,
Opal, 17s 6d j
> 15ct. Gold, 80s j
18ct. Gold, £2.
Send for Size Card.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Solid Gold,
5 Pure White Double
Cut Diamonds,
£3.
Splendid Value.
GENT.’S BING.
Solid Gold, Amethyst, 25s ;
15ct. Gold, £2;
18ct. £2 10s.
18ot. Gold Extra Strong,
Diamond, and 2 Bed
Stones, 255.
15ct, Gold, Diamond,
and 2 Bed Stones, 20s.
18ct. Solid Gold,
Extra Strong and Heavy,
1 Diamond, 2 Bed or Blue
Stones,
£2, £2los, £3, £4, £5.
18ct. Solid Gold
MARQUIS RING,
Diamonds and
Rubies, Sapphire and
Opal Centres,
£lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
18ct. Solid Gold,
6 Pure Diamonds,
£8 10s, £lO, £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O, £25, £3O.
Smaller, £5, £O, £7,
£7 10s, to £3O.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, 5 Opals.
First-class, £2 10s;
Size larger, extra
good, £3los.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hand-made Wedding RINGS and KEEPERS.
9ct. Solid Gold, 7s 6d, 10s each ; 15ct. Gold, 15s;
extra heavy, 25s ; IBct. Gold, 20s ;
extra heavy, 80s, 355, 405., 50s. ' Send for card.
£t- CALL AND SEE OUR JEWELLERY EXHIBITION—A
OR SEND FOR OUR 1901 COMPLETE ILLUSTRATED FREETRADE PRICE BOOK,
SPLENDID DISPLAY;
POST FREE ANYWHERE.
fgd
leading art jeweller,
815 & 817 6EORGE-ST.
Nearly Opposite
Railway Station.
SYDNEY.


Victoria sticks closely to the never-see-
further-than-your-nose policy in connection with
the filling of important professional positions in
the public service. The whole of the big pro-
fessional jobs are in the hands of sexagenarians,
retained because nobody has ever thought of
training men to fill their places. Stuart Murray,
who controls the Water Supply Department, and
who, if not handicapped by the interference of
ignorant Ministers and even more benighted
Parliaments, might be capable of a lot of good, is
a case in point. When he goes, the Govt, will
have nobody at hand with the slightest pretensions
to fill his shoes, and will be reduced to the usual
expedient of sending to some foreign country for a
man who will probably turn out either an incom-
petent dolt or a person with an unparalleled
whisky breath.
A sensation was created at Coburg, near
Melbourne, lately when the local cemetery. took
fire, and burnt with great fury. The fire brigade
turned out and battled with the raging element
for the ashes of its fathers and the temple of its
gods. A number of wooden headstones were con-
sumed, and the identity of many bones destroyed
for ever and the rude forefathers of the township
are all mixed up no w.
From Birmingham Daily Mail :
At Aleester Guardians’ meeting last evening reference
was made to the increase of vagrants admitted during the
preceding fortnight. Compared with last year the figures
were 174 against 69. The Master stated that more than
half the vagrants admitted were reserve men or discharged
soldiers.
Again the gratitude of St. Jingo.
Atonic Dyspepsia.
A Twelve Years’ Resident Gives
Conclusive Evidence.
The Case of Mrs. S- RE AY.
(BY A NEWCASTLE REPORTER.)
It is anticipated that considerable benefit
will accrue to the public from the ex-
perience of Mrs. Susanna Reay, of Victoria-
street, Adamstown, near Newcastle, who
made the following statement to a re-
porter :
“ Some years ago,” said Mrs, Reay, I
was greatly troubled with palpitation of
the h« art. When I exerted myself in any
way the alarming manner in which that
organ used to beat was the source of much
anxiety to me, but in later life I found out
what the cause was, and although my mind
became a little easier iriT consequence of the
knowledge I had gained, still the annoy-
ance continued, because I could not get any-
thing to regulate the pulsation of my heart.
The months which followed saw mv health
becoming more and more feeble, till at last
I was quite an invalid. Several people who
had suffered in the same way told me that
indigestion was the complaint which had
taken hold of me, and I was strongly ad-
vised to try a bottle or so of Clements
Tonic, which I did, and I very soon found
myself greatly relieved ; but at that time I
was so careless about my health that I did
not pay enough attention to my medicine to
take it regularly. &s soon as I found my
heart troubles had ceased, besides feeling
generally benefited from the use of a single
bottle of Clements Tonic, I dropped off
taking any more, and did not give myself
a chance of getting properly cured.”
“I was under the impression that you
had quite regained your health t ” interjected
the press representative.
“So I have,” replied Mrs Reay, “ but
for eight years previous to n y deliverance
from sickness I had been transgressing the
rules of common sense. The worries and
the cares of life, combined with the evil
effects on the constitution of a trying
climate, resulted in the breakdown of my
health again, but through some unaccount-
ible want of thought on my part, I did not
,'o back to my old friend Clements Tonic,
uid I paid very dearly for my folly. My
ippetite was not altogether bad, although
here were some days when I did not feel
like eating anything at all; but there was
one thing certain, and that was the evident
uselessness of taking foo , because it did
not digest Pains in the chest appeared regu-
laily after meals, and I suffered untold
tortures from windy spasms. My st mach
was distended with wind to a most uncom-
fortable degree, so that when I walked I
felt greatly inconvenienced, especially as
there were aches in my loins which hindered
me at every stride. Before I had quite
finished my meals a drowsiness came over
me which made me fit for nothing else but to
lie down, the work that had to be done
sometimes remaining untouched, and often
I was so unable to attend to my housework
that I had to get assistance. Instead of
sleeping atnightsl tossed about in wearying
restlessness, feeling more tired when I got
up than when I went to bed, with my limbs
aching all over, and my tongue quite dry.
I had severe pains beating through my
temples and on top of my head, the in-
tensity of my sufferings being reflected in
the dullness of my eyes, which felt as if
they were swollen. Being one of those
people who cannot give way to illness
without, making an effort tost-uggle against
it, I used to try and busy myself about the
house occasionally, but my a‘tempts were
very feeble ones, as I could only drag along
for a little while, and then sink down in a
state of exhaustion, feeling light-headed
and giddy, and with my nerves trembling
all over my body. No matter what position
I was in I felt pains between the shoulders
and in the lower part of my back, and when
I walked a little distance a terrible pain
caught me in the neck and travelled down
my spine, and almost paralysed me. In
fact, I was so nelpless on those occasions
r.hat I could not speak, and the seriousness
of my condition made me so downcast and
melancholy that I did not have a moment’s
happiness in life. To get so thin and weak
w>B enough to make anybody unhappy,
and my misery was increased by the dread-
ful dreams I had if I chanced to doze off
for a while, as it seemed that I was to have
no peace on earth under any circum-
stances.”
“ Were you not taking medicine of any
kind during this time ? ”
“I had consulted several doctors, all of
whom prescribed physics for me, but the
state of my health did not improve, and in
addition to this I had purchased medicines
from all the chemists about the town, and
not the least good had resulted. I found
that as I.got weaker from day to day the
greater my nervousness became, for I
shuddered at the slightest sound, and was
always anticipating future trouble. My
constitution was ju t completely wrecke i,
and matters could not have been any worse
with me when it occurred to me to again
try Clements Tonic. When this thought
came to my mind I commenced to reproach
myself for having neglected the medicine
whi h had previously given such great re-
lief, aud I decided to be more prudent this
time, ihe effect which Clements Tonic had
upon me at such an advanced stage showed
that the benefit I had formerly derived
from its use Was not a mere chance, for the
old feeling of ease from pain came back
when 1 had ta'k* n only a few doses, and I
felt much brighter and more hopeful than I
had been for years. My appetite was
greatly improved by Clements Tonic, which
soon freed me from the stomach and chest
pains, and when my food ceased turning
to wind I found that my heart beat regu-
larly. Clements lonic strengthened my
system so well that I Bhook off - my nervous-
ness altogether, and another welcome in-
fluence which that medicine had over me
was that I always slept well at nights. By
regula ing my system throughout, Clements
Tonic did everyth ng that was necessary to
overcome my obstinate complaint, and be-
fore I discontinued using thaj medicine
there was not a symptom of indigestion left.
The pains in my head, giddiness, and the
paralysing agonies in my back w-ere all
successfully dealt with by Clements Tonic,
and as I picked up strength with remark-
able rapidity, it was not long before I could
go about without feeling an ache in any
part of my body. After the years of
suffering I had gone through it was a
happy release from misery which Clements
Tonic brought m«, and as I have been per-
fectly sound and strong for the past twelve
months, I am sure that my determination to
give Clements I onic a fair trial has been
amply rewarded.”
*• You have spok n about your own re-
covery to several people, I believe? ”
“ Most of the folks in this district, where
I have lived for twelve years, know that
Clements Tonic cured me, a d you can
publish my story in any way you like for
everybody's benefit.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Susanna Reay, of Viatoria-street, Adamstown.
near Ne\Vc>AtlH, in the State of New South Wales,
ComniAiiv eaith of Australia, do solemnly and
sincere y declare that I have carefully read
the annexed docu nent, consisting of four
folios and consecutively numbered from one
to four, aid that it contains and is a true and
faithful ac ount of my illness and cure by Clements
Tonic, and also contains my full permission to publish
in any way m.v statements which I give volun-
tarily," witliou receiving any payment; and I make
this "solemn declaration conscientiously believing the
same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of
Subscribed and declared at Adamstown, this
twelfth day of October, on* thousand nine hundred .
and one, before me,
the Oaths Act, 1900.
WILLIAM COURT, J.V.
uivh; good
All Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a Worlcl-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and [riving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT, If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’B NATURALINE.
MT For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d. ; postage, 9d. extra.
ALL !
Washington H. Sour, & Co.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT
HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR,
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE
GENERAL
ELECTRIC
COMPANY.
Capital - - - £5,250,000.
Manufactures the Highest Grade of
Electrical Machinery.
THEIR NAME IS A GUARANTEE.
Dynamos, Engines and Motors up to 250 H.P. in Stock.
Lighting and Power Plants for Immediate Delivery.
Arc and Incandescent Lamps and Supplies of all kinds.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC GO.,
Electrical Engineers and Contractors,
SOLE REPRESENTATIVES.
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, Melbourne and Sydney.
ďfd
THE BEST HOBBY FOR ALL.
KODAK
Photography.
BULLS-EYE and BULLET KODAKS
Are Cameras of the ever-ready box pattern, which require no
unfolding when a photograph is to be taken. The Bullet
Kodaks may be employed with glass plates as well as daylight
changing films, are equipped with fine lenses, and yield splendid
photographs, snap shots or time exposures. No dark room is
needed for changing the films. The glass plates are carried in
handy plate-holders.
Prices: 40s. to <£6 6s. Write for Price List and mention this paper.
KODAK Ltd. & Reduced,
THE BLOCK,
284 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Free Lessons Daily at 3 p.m., at the above address.
THE WORLD’S BEST.
C. L. HAUTHAWAY & SONS’
PEERLESS GLOSS
is an oil dressing which so softens the leather that
smaller sized shoes can be worn with perfect comfort.
“ Peerless Gloss ” is the great dressing triumph of the
world, as it imparts a brilliant and permanent polish to
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S
shoes that outrivals all other dressings, and yet it does not
contain anything injurious to the leather. Beware of
imitations*. Demand Hauthaway’s “Peerless Gloss,” and
take no substitute. For sale nearly everywhere. Made
only by C. B. Hauthaway & Sons, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.


Ajro.
1891.
1001.
Dec. or Inc.
S to to
58,631
46,710
—11,921
10 to HO
3,343
3.510
x 162
20 end over
31,261
32,153
x 892
A FREE VETERINARY BOOK.
A most useful Veterinary Book is attached
to every bottle of Gondy’s Fluid. This Book
contains instructions for curing most of the
ailments and accidents affecting Horses,
Dogs, Sheep, Cattle and Poultry.
Eminent Veterinary Surgeons recom-
mend Condy’s Fluid as an absolutely
certain cure for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs,
Broken Knees, Grease, Thrush and
Cracked Heels in Horses—Scab, Foot
Rot, Fly, etc., in Sheep—Hoove, Foul in
the Foot, Wounds and Sores in Cattle.
Condy s Fluid is made by Condy &
Mitchell, Ltd., of 65, Goswell Road,
London, England, and is sold by all
Chemists and Stores. Beware of Colonial
substitutes. Insist on having Condy’s Fluid.
fd
<3-0 TO HET.X-
I(J()IiAM> for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
HATS- HATS. hats.
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fatted with this
valuable invention.
Catalogue to B. MoiHltCßStlß & SOflSj
BRISBA.KTE.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY # CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 Georgs Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION 4. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted jy
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our SILK hTRIPd
Mattalassk and other Unshlunkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/ per Huh -dozen, tree by post throuj h<>nt
A ustrulia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUUTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE
THERE IS NO BUGGY
so suitable for all Back Country work as
Will do the work of a Buckboard; ride as
easy as a Buggy. Has no undergear, yet is not a Buckboard ; all the body on
springs, yet is not a Buggv. Same Price, any Port, any State in the Common-
wealth. WE PAY THE FREIGHT, and Duties are off.
jrnrnmm CASH ONLY.
SIMPSON’S ‘GIL GAI.’
SIDNEY SIMPSON, Coachbuilder, 73 King St, Newtown, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
“We have had enough of these sweating
patriots who sub-let their pain and contract-out
their dying.”— John Bukns.
The Pen is indeed mightier than the
Sword: Compare the mortality of the Boer
prison-camps with that of the field of battle.
Melb. Argus impudently affected to accept
the Tasmanian election of Hartnoll as a triumph
for the Low Tariff party, whereas it was the wild
despairing cry of Tatts’ tote.
A leading Indian paper on the Japanese-
English alliance:—
It is difficult to see how either Canada or Australia can
be allowed in future to keep out the subjects of the only
nation which is allied to us.
When Premier Philp cuts down his
Cabinet, as promised, the Jonahs will probably
be Ministers Murray and O’Connell. He would
prefer to get rid of Janny Leahy and Foxton,
but fears both.
The Barton Ministry’s one and only ex-
hibition of a moderate degree of firmness is
rescued for the noble duty of wiping out the only
square gamble in the Commonwealth, for the sole
benefit of a horde of bookmakers and tote-shop
sharks.
Latest about IN.S.W. Public Service Board
is that it intends shortly to abolish all its present
regulations, stock, lock and barrel, and
provide an absolutely new set. This will
oome specially hard on an unconsidered
class of the Publm Service. In nearly
every office there is one individual who
has made a close study of the Board’s
regulations, and through his knowledge
of his huge dark subject
had gained some standing
in his department. He
can give an intelligent
reading of regulation
1237, section 3, subsec-
tion VII. His know-
ledge of the Crown
Law Office’s inter-
pretation of regula-
tions 2355 to 2361
is specially useful to
his superiors. His
colleagues depend
on him to let them
know when their
time to appeal comes
round again. And
now his occupation
will be gone. With a
brand-new set of regula-
tions, his studies must
begin afresh and there
are few, even in the
N.S.W. Public Service,
equal to going through
a second lot.
Sydney Telegraph
lent a hand to the
whitewashing of
Queensland Premier
Philp after the elec-
tion, and explained
in its leading col umns
that that muddled
person had had a bad
time at the hands of Provi-
dence and “ the loss of rail-
way revenue alone through
the drought was £630,000.”
This has been Philp’s plea all
along, but where that loss
comes in is beyond discovery.
In the financial years 1898
and 1899, when Philp wasn’t
in office, the railways yielded a revenue of
£2,589,286. In 1900 and 1901, when Philp was in
office and making his great deficit, they, yielded
£2,781,335. Any ordinary person would reckon
that Philp got £192 000 more revenue instead of
£630,000 less.
Queensland Government’s first step in the
direction of “economy” after.the elections was
the distribution of advertising-contracts, amount-
ing in value to hundreds of pounds, among the
metropolitan weaklies which had touted for Minis-
terial candidates at the late contest.
Over the appointment of some of the
latest batch of N.S.W. Circuit Crown Prosecutors
heartburnings were so intense that a Minister
longed for some tribunal like a Public Service
Board to take the duty over. There are barristers
who seldom see a brief except when figuring as
Crown Prosecutors.
Medical candidate, during recent Q. elec-
tion :
The Philp Govt, is a tottering figure-head ; it has a
Bhallow brain and no heart; no backbone ; all its acts are
imbecile ; its limbs are palsied ; remedy—an emetic to
dear them out! /
Vigorous—but mixed.
Victorian Minister Weary Willie Trenwith
travels at the State’s expense, with great gorgeous-
ness. Recently he took a tour of Gippsland
district using the special Duke of York car for
himself, his private secretary, and “a special
guard.” This boudoir car was dragged
miles solely for the noble Trenwith’s glorification.
Chinese population of Cairns (Q.) doesn’t
entertain any delusions about that part of the
continent being a “ white man’s country.” Cer-
tain Australians who at last election had the dar-
ing to advocate ‘‘ a White Australia ” are to be
boycotted by the yellow men ; and, as the pigtail
party is very influential in Cairns, the boycott
promises to be felt.
The Duke of York bill still haunts Vic-
torian Treasury. At latest it takes the form of
charges for overtime to certain well-paid public
servants who helped in the crawl. Of a total of
£l5OO, £250 goes to T. G. Watson, £l5O to
Wool lard ; while Jenkins of the Beard—possibly
for saying, in his fat way, “ Let the thing be done
Properly”—annexes £250.
Maoriland’s attempted leadership in Aus-
tralasian affairs is defended in some quarters on
the ground that it was the first Australasian terri-
tory to demand and exercise the right of self-
government. Maoriland’s Constitution Act took
effect in 1852 ; N.S.W., the first of the Australias,
started in 1855. Cape Colony preceded Australia,
getting self-government in 1854.
In Bananaland the police are instructed
to furnish the Home Secretary with the names and
addresses of all persons taking seats on Labor
platforms. Robert is often ignorant of the iden-
tity of the people aloft, and has to rely upon the
door hangers-on for information. So in one case
the Home Secretary heard that Edmund Barton,
John See, and W. P. Crick had together adorned
the platform of a well-known Labor candidate.
It should be made a punishable offence for
a man to solicit a M.P. to obtain for him a
Government job. This law would be in the
interests of the politicians no less than of the
THE RULING PASSION.
BENEVOLENT VISITING JUSTICE: " Now, is there
anything' I can do for you?”
BULLET-HEADED STATE GUEST : “ Yes, sir, I'd
like you to get me a billet in this ’ere 27th
cohentingent.”
general public. At present, out of the 20 letters
which an M.P. averages daily, 15 begin: “Will
you use your influence to get me appointed ”—in-
spector of this, inspector of that, with close direc-
tions as to which Minister should be interviewed.
Perhaps the rottenest judicial body on
earth is the Queensland Elections Tribunal.
Three arbitrators are selected by the Government,
which takes care to nominate at least two of its
own supporters, and the court is presided over by
a Supreme Court Judge. The Judge gives the
law and the arbitrators decide the facts. All
recent appeals to the tribunal have gone in favor
of Ministerial, even in the stinkful Cambooya
case.
IN TRAINING.
KINCH M'GUIKE (at the sports-depot window):
“ Bit me if I know whether it’s best to get
married or go in fer a punchin’-ball.”
The recent elections have just shown con-
clusively that Brisbane, with its peg-vote con-
stituencies, is the main bulwark of the Philp
Government, the prime supporter of the Kanaka
traffic, and the real root of Queensland’s financial
and political cancer. There is growing up in
rural Queensland a steady feeling of bitter
antagonism to the metropolis, and an anti-Brisbane
party appears to be one of Bananaland’s crying
needs.
After all, Q. Labor party had luck in being
unable to upset the Boodlewraith this bout. What
with drought, plague, and Philp the State’s
finances are in such a state that nothing will he
able to avert a land and income tax —and that, if
nothing else, will cook the goose of the Boodle-
wraith. The alternative is Repudiation, for there
isn’t much more coveted land to sell and as for a
loan —well, John Bull is getting a trifle sullen
just now.
By the time the third Commonwealth con-
tingent is afloat the 4000 soldiers provided for
service in S’Africa will have cost J. Bull (in-
dependent of wages) £350,000. The Federal Govt,
has already received telegraphic advances for
£150,000. When it is understood that the portly
business man scoops the butt end of that £350,000
we know why the Australian live-meat trade con-
tinues. Live soldiers pay the exporters better
than dead sheep.
The big surprise of Q. electors was the
capture of Mt. Morgan (Fitzroy) by the Labor
party. On account of the despotism exercised by
the M.M.G.M. Co the capture of this seat was
regarded as almost impossible. The co. has, how-
ever, carried things with too high a hand of late,
and the worm has finally turned—with a ven-
geance . . . Only two seats in the Central District
—Mitchell and Normanby—now profess allegiance
to the Philp Government.
During the tariff discussion, in the House
of Reps., insurance-drummer King O’Malley voted
consistently Protectionist, but he screamed aloud
in his agony when it came to a vote on a clause in
the Public Service Bill, which gave a preference to
local offices in re the insurance of officers’ lives'.
O’Malley’s “democracy” is a trifle blatant in
some places, and a bit piebald in others. How-
ever, decent radicals have much to be thankful for
nowadays that there are a few men who give
democratic votes at all.
The Philp Government worked the cus-
tomary shady, disreputable dodges throughout the
last Q. election. In one case, a station, where 50
voters were working, could not be made a polling-
place, and the men were forced to travel 50 miles
to record their opinions, while 30 of them were
sacked into the bargain—as a reward for their
temerity. On the other hand, Ravenswood was
made a polling place for Bowen (in anticipation
of a property-vote poll), and recorded one vote.
Wonderful country, Queensland !
Education statistics just published by
N.S.W. Statist Coghlan show the numbers of those
in the State who cannot read:—
Which seems to suggest that a good many Aus-
tralians forget how to read as they grow older, or
that there is a big influx of uneducated people.
Latest N.S.W. liquor-trade proposal,
that the license should be attached not to th®
house but to the man, comes from R. D.
Meagher, M.L.A., and is a very lovely idea
indeed. Mr. Bung could then carry his bung-
ship wherever he listed, as he used to do in
Victoria, when a pub.-keeper from the
Western district, to the writer’s knowledge,
put his license in his pocket and his surplus
beer and spirits in a railway-truck and was
next heard of running his business, with the
same license, in a little mining town under
the Alps. One result was that no one could
rely on finding his pub. at the end of a day’s
journey—it might have left. And there were
other results—very curious ones, too, which
made Victoria very tired.
Maoriland Farmers’ Union recently
resolved, “that, in the event of the ‘Mother
Country’ being embroiled in war with any
foreign power, the Farmers’ Union will be
prepared, if an emergency should arise, to
raise and send to Britain’s aid a strong
contingent of able-bodied men; and that
the Premier be respectfully requested to
convey this message to the Imperial authori-
ties.” The Union maintained discreet silence
as to whether the Union would pay for its
contingent of able bodied men. At first it did
not seem quite clear as to whether the Union
was going to start raising armies and carrying
on war on its own account or not, but later
on the whole windy resolution looked like a
low-down attempt to curry favor with the
ultra-Jingoistic Government for a very sordid
purpose. Having wildly waved its fist in
the face of the world, the Farmers’ Union
proceeded to go down on its marrowbones
to get Minister Ward to grant its represen-
tatives free passes over the railways to
attend its annual conference. The Minister
refused the passes with brutal frankness, and
now the Union is going round with the hat.
Imagine a union that won’t pay its own fare
to its own annual conference talking about sending
troops to Britain’s aid ! Yah !
House of Reps, struck off the tea and
kerosene duties, sacrificing £500,000 in revenue.
G. B. Edwards (S. Sydney) made the exceedingly
sane suggestion that the duties should be retained
and the money used instead of floating the pro-
Sosed loan. The Labor party, anxious enough to
emand reforms (and nearly all reforms cost
money), won’t help to find the money, and sees
nothing incongruous in the Commonwealth
borrowing a sum equal to less than three weeks’
customs revenue, because it won’t tax itself
enough.
In the 1900 session the Q. Secretary for
Railways introduced plans for Bowen Railway
extension. This was presumed to be part of the
Government’s railway policy, but it was bitterly
opposed by Premier Philp (who represents Towns-
ville, the trade of which is supposed to suffer if
the railway is built). Yet, on the eve of last
general election, Philp authorised his candidate
for Bowen to state that “ this line would be the
first on the Govt.’s policy.” The bait did not
take, however, and Annear, Philp’s nominee, went
down before Frank Kenna.
The N.S. W. “ Protestant Defence ” organ,
the Watchman, has made the amusing discovery
that the day-labor system is to be ascribed to “the
Pope of Rome.” A convenient correspondent
writes to it:—
You know that it was only for the unskilled laborers
that it was introduced, and that seven-tenths of the un-
skilled laborers are Irishmen belonging to the R.O.
Church, and of course they would be the chief gainers,
and through them the church. So lam satisfied that the
idea of minimum wage originated from the R.O. Church,
and was communicated to Mr. O’Sullivan. I may be
wrong in this conjecture, but it will take a lot to dis-
suade me from it.
How to bridle N.S.W. Works Minister
O’Sullivan without wrecking the See Ministry is
at present a riddle to a number of vexed poli-
ticians. If they could show their power by
reducing his salary, as is done with obnoxious
civil servants at Estimates time, they would be
satisfied in the first instance. But Ministerial
salaries do not come before the House, and so to
get at him they must take the Government bull
by the horns, which they do not care to do. What
they really want is what James Martin, afterwards
Chief Justice, wished to make law between 40 and
50 years ago. He moved that Ministers’ salaries
should come up for annual vote, and held that if
such were the case the House could show its feel-
ing to an individual Minister without seriously
colliding with the Government. He was beaten,
however, by 29 to 14 votes.
A hard nut awaits the baby gums of N.S.W.
Arbitration Court. One or two lots of city
workers claim advances on the grounds mainly, that
their bosses have been having a good time; and as
the Court may order an inspection of books the
men reckon themselves safe. But then right on
top of this will come the first big row that already
rumbles over next shearing season, the A.W.U.
having decided to ask for higher pay, more
especially in the drought-cursed out-back. If,
however, the Court considers the bosses’ profits in
the first case, the bosses in the second case will
flatten out the Court with their tally of appalling
losses. Between the two the Court will have an
early chance to show how good or bad it is at
dodging things. In short, right in its first days
the Court will bump against the difficulty of
laying down a principle for governing wages.
♦
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.’'


3U "Mtnwetsal jCeed.
ďf
Them is probably no musical instrument so generally
discussed and so thoroughly enjoyed as the Pianola.
Entirely unknown in Australia three months ago, it has
bounded into popularity, accompanied by an enthusiasm
indicative of unusual arousing of public interest.
It has found its way into every quarter of the Globe,
and the enthusiasm is not confined to any class or pro-
fession. Musicians and Amateurs praise and buy the
Pianola.
What has caused this stirring of Public
and Professional interest?
The Pianola is the wonder as it is the triumph of
the Century, and marks a new era in Pianoforte
playing.
The Pianola has touched the keynote of an
Universal Need. Many people have music in their
souls, but few can spare the time to get it into their
fingers. Even those who devote their entire life to music
can only get a limited amount of it into their fingers.
The Pianola, with its delicate mechanism, sensitive
to the player's control, performs this part of the work,
leaving the player free to devote his whole time to
expression that which makes a composition musical.
You are cordially Invited to visit our
Bhowrooms and see the Pianola and
hear it played—or, if unable to call,
send for Catalogue.
On JEolian Company of new Vork,
HENRY M. BIRGE <& CO.,
SYDNEY: 323 GEORGE STREET.
MELBOURNE'. 185 & 187 COLLINS STREET.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
An Australasian South African Association
has been formed (offices, 20 Darling-st., Capetown)
—“to keep alive the nationality of A. in S’Africa,”
and to help the material interests of members.
HYDATIDS AGAIN CONQUERED.
TWELVE YEARS A SUFFERER.
Another Wonderful Cure.
READ WHAT THE PEOPLE SAY ABOUT
VITADATIO
76 Dorcas-street, South Melbourne.
May 10, 1899.
Mr. S. A. PALMER, Agent tor Vitadatio.
Dear Sir,—l have much pleasure in giving my testimony
of what VITADATIO has done for me. I was taken ill
two years ago last November with jaundice. I was then
living at Kensington, and the doctor who was attending
me discovered that I was suffering from Hydatids. He
brought me through that illness, but after twelve months
I was again taken bad, suffering terrible agony at times,
and a large lump formed in my stomach, which the
doctor said was hydatids again, and that I would have to
undergo an operation ; but while arrangements were
being made I heard of your wonderful medicine. After
taking one bottle, which made me very ill, I threw up
three (3) gall stones. I then continued the medicine and
passed 14 more. While taking the medicine I also passed
hydatids. I took nineteen bottles of VITADATIO, and
now believe I am thoroughly cured of both hydatids and
gall stones, and feel better and stronger than I have done
for years. Wishing you every success with your wonder-
ful medicine, I am, yours very gratefully,
Mrs. H. WEBSTER.
P.S.—You are at perfect liberty to make what use you
like of this. My cure took place twelve months ago.
Anybody wishing to see the gall stones can see them at
45 and 47 Bourke-street, Melbourne.
AFTER THREE YEARS
MBS. WEBSTER VOLUNTARILY TESTIFIES TO
THE
PERMANENCY OF HER CURE BY
VITADATIO.
76 Dorcas-street, South Melbourne.
May 28th, 1901.
Dear Sir, —It is now three years since I have been cured
of Hydatids and Gall Stones, by WEBBER’S VITADATIO,
and I beg to state that I have had no return of either
complaint since that time, and have been in the very best
of health, in fact life is quite a pleasure to what it used
to be, as I have been a very great sufferer. I hand you
this as a proof of the permanency of my cure.
Yours faithfully,
HARRIET WEBSTER.
We can testify to the truth of the above statement.
CHARLES FRANZ,
AGNES FRANZ.
54 Napier-street, Fitzroy.
For further particulars,
s. A. PALMER,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials
The Seddon Government is publishing the
official reports of Colonel Porter, commanding
Maoriland’s Seventh Contingent, as Parliamentary
Papers. Here are some gems from the latest
publication:—
June 14, Eeitfontein.—The column marched in the
direction of Bethel, and at about 11 a.m. was fiercely
opposed by the Boers. I was in command (Bulletin’s
italics) of the advance, and received the brunt of the
action.
June 15. —The Boers attacked the column hotly in the
rear, but the casualties were nil.
June 22 and 23.—Were engaged each day with the
enemy. No casualties on our side.
July 2.—At Wonderfontein passed the rear-guard of
Colville’s column, and destroyed the beautifully-furnished
home of Field-Cornet Pretorius.
Again the “beautifully-furnished” Boer homes
come in for mention—and before the war the Boer
was always represented as a hairy savage on a mud-
floor. Apparently this barbarous and cowardly
destruction of private property was the only real
work the Maorilanders did on above dates. The
rest consisted of hot engagements where nobody
was injured.
Oronzo Presa is not a rain-maker, but
from his office at 522 George-street, Sydney, he
issues monthly forecasts of weather for the infor-
mation of agriculturists and pastbralists. These
monthly forecasts have been issued ever since
1899, and can be seen at N.S.W. Dept, of Agri-
culture. The forecasts are sent to subscribers for
the small sum of ss. per annum.*
dfgfgd
IN order to introduce our Gold Wire Jewellery
to the Australian public we have decided to
offer one of the greatest bargains ever seen in the
jewellery trade—viz., the above handsome Brooch
(any name or three initials) made of extra quality
9ct. gold-filled wire, with heart pendant ; guaran-
teed the same quality as the brooch advertised,
complete. Sent post-free on receipt of P. 0.0. or
M.O. for ss. in round wire or sq. twisted wire, 15ct.
gold, filled, Bs. 6d. Illustrated catalogues sent free.
SIMS and ELRICK, Manufacturing Jewellers.
Our only address—
COLE’S BOOK ARCADE, MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA.
AUSTRALIAN .
STAMPS
Highest Cash Prices Paid
to any amount for
Old or Rare Btamps,
Used or IlnraeA
The First
Australian Stamp.
0 POSTAGES
vm
jtiiijkjg
OONLPENNTO
For Sale—The Largest Stock of STAMPS, ALBUMS, etc.,
in the Southern Hemisphere.
SMYTH & NICOLLE, u Hunter-st., Sydney
t Senior-Sergeant Morris, of Bathurst,
N.S.W., who recognised Deeming, the cement-
man, in the disguise of millionaire Baron Swan-
ston, and put the dogs of the law on to the fugi-
i tive’s scent, has been appointed an acting Sub-
'■ Inspector.
V The idea of holding an early session of the
< M.L. Parliament, before Seddon goes ’Ome, has
( been abandoned. Ward will be acting-Premier
during Dick’s absence. Seddon is probably just
as well pleased to be out of the way when the
House meets.
Seventeen years ago, A. J. Wells, a Yic.
' line-repairer, went out shooting with an old-
fashioned muzzle-loader that burst, and tore an
ugly wound along his forearm. The wound was
dressed, and healed rapidly; and Wells was soon
at work again. Feeling some pain on the arm
lately ? he went to Melbourne and consulted Dr.
Rennie, who, with the X-rays, located a foreign
substance lying near the bone ; an opening was
made, and a piece of the gun long by lin.
wide was extracted. Wells had spent hours after
the explosion looking for that missing lump of
old gun.
Bigjohn Forrest and W.A. Premier Leake
continue to exchange angry letters in regard to
the Coolgardie water supply scheme. Leake has
always opposed this wonderful wild-cat project,
though feeling bound to carry it through to the
end since it has gone so far ; and Forrest seems to
want to get ready to throw the blame, when the
inevitable failure comes, on Leake’s, lukewarm-
ness, rather than on his own wild-cattiness in ever
setting the project going. Forrest, in a long letter
dated Feb. 12, claims that the scheme must suc-
ceed, and must pay 3 per cent, interest and 3 per
cent, towards a sinking fund. The points that he
fails to answer (and they are the vital ones)—
(1) Will the pipe-line carry the water ?
(2) If it does, will there be a population at the gold-
fields sufficient to use the water by the time it arrives,
seeing that within five years Ooolgardie (the original
terminus of the pipe-line) has sunk from the position of
a city to that of a village ?
From present appearances, when the pipe-line
reaches Kalgoorlie the population of that city
may also have shifted further into the wilderness,
and it will have to crawl slowly after the moving
inhabitants until it strikes a haven of rest at, say,
Cobar, N.S.W.
Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan writes :—
In reference to your paragraph (29/3/’02), page 24, permit
me to say that the report referred to was incorrect. What
I said in my speech to the men at the day'-labor luncheon
was—“ You have already provided me with the means to
buy land for a house, and some day I hope to build that
house. When I do I will build it by day labor.” That
puts a very different construction upon the matter. _ This
is not the first by many times that I have been inten-
tionally, or unintentionally, misrepresented by the same
daily paper.
The Bulletin, as indicated in its paragraph, was
from the first reluctant to believe that E. W. O’S.
had really touted for a present from the men.
But why didn’t he make the D.T. correct its mis-
statement ?
Victoria’s quota of the second Common-
wealth contingent slipped away t’other morning
in a heavy, drizzling rain, quite unnoticed. They
trained straight from Langwarrin camp to the
Port, and were shipped off by Col. Tom Price just
as a boss stevedore might ship so many cattle or
so much frozen meat. Not even Bigjohn Forrest
or Barton turned up to speechify about the Hem-
pire and the Cause. And it is but two short years
since Tom Price and his 200 Second-contingenters
had to fight their way to sea through seething
swarms of blood-and-excitement-drunk maniacs !
Most Melbourne hansom cabs are now
fitted with Dunlop-Kelly rubber tyres; and Mel-
bourne society is rubberrtyring its landaus,
broughams and dog-carts. The iron-shod vehicle
with its jar and clatter is becoming a thing of the
past.*
The De Laval Steam Turbines (agents, J.
Bartram and Son, Sydney and Melbourne) are
attracting more and more attention every day.
They are so light and compact that their installa-
tion is much cheaper than that of an ordinary
engine. They require so little space that the
necessity of providing a separate engine-room is
avoided. They work smoothly and without vibra-
tion. Their speed is regulated with the utmost
accuracy by an exceedingly sensitive governor,
thus rendering them most valuable where steady
speed is of importance. All the parts are made
to standard patterns and gauges, so that spare
parts can be promptly supplied.*
N ervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue *
OIL LAUNCHES BUILT TO ORDER,
20fi. to 80ft. overall.
*&&& BSE
\
“KING” and “SINTZ” ENGINES, to 100 h.p.—1902 Models.
i". mcdermott & co m;p a. nxr Y,
Factory Agents, 37 MARKET STREET,
s"3£’x»:isr:E3'3r.
Telephone 2671.
SHOES BY POST.
THIS SHOE IS PHOTO-
GRAPHED FROM STOCK.
Hundreds
of Ladies
Wear
the
Callaghan
Shoe!
Why
Don’t
You?
4
iISCiS^
/
.
-i#
U :
gg-ajfcfiSfetafr «:■ • f
<&&■ '■
m
•
filial*
nMH|
'. : ' 1 "
£
.
❖
*■--■
.
NO RISK
IN FIT !
With Callaghan Shoes or Boots you
will have better-appearing and more
comfortable feet, and make your money
go from twice to three times as far. If you
live at a distance our thoroughly systematised
Mail Order Department will fit you to your
perfect satisfaction, or return your money. We
want distant customers to be as pleased as those in
town. State size of boot worn, and shape of toes desired.
12/11; Post Paid, 13/6.
f AMERICAN GLACE KID SHOE for LADIES,
\ with Dressy Patent Leather Toe-cap, and new
fashioned Collarette.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 George St., Sydney


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
fgď
fg
fgdfg
f
BILIL3
DISCOUNTED.
3XT.S.-W.
(Dint deplete DJl.Co.,[td.
(Opposite' Tivoli Theatre)
74 CASTLEKEAGH ST., 74.
SYDNEY *
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
'-THE-,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
FOR
Mr!ual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out, Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman ; lion. C. J. Roberts,
G.M.G., M.L.C. : Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Mim.hr.
Accumulated Funds, £2,401,089.
Policies issued .85,872—assuring 026,085,346.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,576,850.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
Tiia [Mi of fort!) Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- . Local Director JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. I’. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up "... £lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... 250 000 ... £350,000
Queensland Smelting Qompg.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
TJUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
J * Copper Ores r Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, ap, ly to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
Rein Zealand Insurance (Jo.
FIRE and MARINE.
CAPITAL .. .. £1,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES .. 420,000
Largest, Colonial Company.
J. A. MINNETT,
Manager.
81 Pitt St., Sydney.
Tb* Tr6st€€s, €*€QGtorS,
AND
AgsocV Conjpaoy Linjitcd,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED
CAPITAL PAID-UP
RESERVE LIABILITY
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business)
Amount; at Credit of Estates. Trusts,
and Clients, 30th June, 1001
£150,000 0 0
£90,000 0 0
£150,000 0 0
£BB5B 7 3
16,388,976 5 3
Directors : F. It. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. :
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROVVMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Managei
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Royal Bank of Queensland
LIMITKI). b
CAPITAL PAID-UP £423,000
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 209,581
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 54,000
£686,581
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amountof Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £2,500.000
Ocean
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. TAd. of London-.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee |
Corpn. of the Colonies.
Directors— Sydney : Sir W. M'Millan, Hon. A. VV. Meeks.
Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq. Wellington • h"
Beauchamp, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N
M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth A w"
Farquhar ; Wellington, N.Z., C. M. Montefior’e.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
T HE
SAVINGS BANK IN
HAS MONEY TO LEND
VICTORIA
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £15,000, on City
Town and Suburban Properties,
and £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address.—L.D.l.j 300 Collins St., Mdbourno
Shipping.
HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
GEELONG
PORTLAND [
WARRNAMBOOL
ADELAIDE (
Leura, Saturday, April 5,12 Noon.
<-*abo, Tuesday, April 8, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Sat., April 12, 12 Noon.
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Gabo, Tuesday, April 15, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
Fremantle
Tuesday, April 15, 5 p.m.
(No Transhipment.)
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Peregrine, Sat., April 5, 12 Noon.
Konoowarra, Tues., April B,spm
Leura, Saturday, April 12, 12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Peregrine, Sat., April 5, 12 Noon
Leura, Saturday, April 12, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
coSss T rnm tS ’Pterchamreable with all other Inter-
otr-\ S ut C u°aT P T a r- particulars application.
X“les BU ' ldlngS * COrner Qe^e and
Wharves—Foot of Kiny-street.
TN€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and 00., London).
To Natal, Capetown and London.
(Calling at Plymouth.)
The following magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL. CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows
All the above have splendid accommodation, and will
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
Passengers by this route to London will avoid the heat
! of the Red Sea.
Only Ist and 3rd-class passengers carried.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY
Huddart, Parker & (Jo’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
■A-ZNTZD
IKTE
via
San Francisco,
California.
SPLENDID NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS,
SIERRA
SONOMA ** o,er SSr
YEN TXJRA Length, 425 feet,
w ,fr enR6rS ! >ooke [ l thr °ugh to American, Canadian and
European centres at current rates.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO., ITI>
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts. SYDNEY.
TIME TABIiE.
THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
-THE—
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
Ass6rai>c€ Society.
(ESTABLISHED 1879.)
THE MOST LIBERAL AND PROGRESSIVE
LIFE OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA.
HEAD OFFICE:
Intersection Hunter, Bligh and Castlereagh
Streets, Sydney.
VICTORIAN BRANCH :
Baring Chambers, Market Street, Melbourne.
Wm. Bennett, Manager.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH :
36 and 38 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
JAS. GLISSAN, Resident Secretary.
GEO. CROWLEY, General Manager,
J'lie (. onimercial Lanl&iny Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up ...
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
£1,000,000 0 0
1,010,000 0 0
1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
G. J. Cohen, Esq.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C.
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.C.
E. W. Knox,
.. Chairman.
.. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Esq.
Auditors :
E. S. Cape, Esq. Hon. F. T. Humphert, M.L.C.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager: T. B Gaden
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector: A j'
boutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie*
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane
Directors: Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G: F. H.
Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq. ; Hon. H s'
Littleton Manager, Nathaniel Cork
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
United losaraoce Co.
(LIMITED.)
Head Office:
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS
SYDNEY.
CAPITAL
£500,000.
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Fnmi-
Marine Risks
ture, etc. Rents also assured*
on Wool, Merchandise, Hulls
of Vessels, Freights, Passage
Money, etc.
RateB very Zotv •
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager;.
WANTED
JF YOU ARE SUFFERING from any of the following-
ailments, viz., Rheumatism, Sciatica, Vitajl Weak-
ness, Liver Complaint, Dyspepsia, Lamk Back or
Debility, Kidney Disease or any Organic Derange-
ments, we want you to wear one of our ELECTRIC
BELTS, and when CURED to let other sufferers know
that our ELECTRIC BELTS will permanently CURE
when all other Remedies have FAILED. We prefer those
cases who have failed to obtain relief elsewhere. Send
us a description of your case, and size around the waist
next to skin. Address—
ARTHUR HALE & SON, Medical Galvanisfs,.
44 Castlereagii-st., Sydney.
London Address: 105 Regent Street, W.
N. ID. L.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
London E Si Na P les > Gerioa ,
T . ±wm screw.
Leaving MELBOURNE Wednesday after Sydney,
for Return® Eeturn Tickets are now available
Pacific, ‘orMS. s Steamers of P. and 0., Orient
. TO SINGAPORE,
ma BRI SPANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW
GUINEA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. TANG LIN, 30ch April,
And Regularly Thereafter.
Seagoing Qualities - Maximum Speed,
ctdsine Plvrr'rrv 6 ’ Accon nnodation, Excellent
?othe ne Agents TY - F ° r fUrther P articulars apply
stSfsy R dS- HMANN & C °- LIMITED ’ 7 and 9 Bridge-
Canadian - A ustralian Royal
Mail Line
IN CONNECTION WITH
CANADIAN - PACIFIC RAILWAY.
THE “ALL-RED” ROUTE
Miowera, April 2T\
Aorangi, May 19 j
TAKING-
CORONATION
PASSENGERS.
JxLoana, June 16,
Saloon, £35 to £66.
Return, £6l 10s. to £66.
ROUND THE WORLD FROM £llO.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
ORNAMENTAL nair.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair.and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers & Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
"" Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia.
CRAIG & A.ITKEKT,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply -House,
680-682 George Street, Sydney.
PHOTOS
Models from Life, Beautiful Stereo-
scopies, etc. List with 100 Minia-
ture and 23 Cabinet size photos.
Ss. P. 0.0. or stamps.
S. RECKNACEL NACHF, Munich, 1 Brieffach, Germany.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
for MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping- at 'Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Wollowra
(from Melbourne),
Tuesdajf, April 15
S.S. Marloo
(from Melbourne),
Tuesday, April 29.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Rockton,
Friday, April 4.
S.S. Adelaide,
Friday, April 11.
nest and Cheapest Ho ate to Goldfields.
Passage tickets are interchangeable-after the
“.sf Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A.U.S.N. Co. and Howard Smith Co.,
f Adelaide and VV.A. all tickets are inter-
changeabie with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
r , , Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
-iirawrarii ■■■
A- U. S. N. Coy. Ltd
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mankay,’
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly
ANI> ROCKHAMPTON-Bi-weekly, via PorU
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN-Every 3 Weeks, vi i
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Islan 1,
and Normanton.
tvnww NEV \ CAljEdonia . and EIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly. 1
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA
Fortnightly.
Passent/er A erouunodation, Attendance mill
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
hrst port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
ol the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. 11. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
, r Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO, Ltd., Agents, In Bridge-
|^^U.pydney : _and_Agehcies at all Australasian Ports
AND O. COMPANY’S
" ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
. or > the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
PtRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
Steamer.
Commander.
.. April 16
.. May 3
'.. May 17
.. May 31
.. June 14
♦AUSTRALIA 6901'F. J. Cole
ROME .. 5545 E. Street
HIMALAYA . 6598 W. L. Broun, R.N.R
CHINA .. 7912 T. S. Angus
ARCADIA .. 6663 F. 0, A. Lyon. R.N.R.
* Via Hobart.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON-Single, £3B 10s to £/7
T, . . . T,ifcto Return, £7llos to £l2l
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific, and
Messageries Maritimes Steamers having room.
EDWARD TRELAWNY,
_b3Pitt-street. Superintendent in Australia.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government,, calling at 'MELBOURNE, ADE-
AIM, .FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
NAI I I lirlll ho -I If AlTTniTr XT . ..
_ uooKea co lndia, Uhina,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE.MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every ass is tanca
m landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
“E. RND R.” LINE.
* . . TO . .
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with EVERY CON-
VENIENCE FOR TROPICAL TRAVELLING.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates in con-
junction with the Canadian-Pacific and other Steamship
Companies.
For further information apply to
BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
... SMOKE . .
THE
*4
&
INSIST on having this Brand
—and no other.
AGENTS
JULIUS SOLD SCHMIDTS. CO.
231 Clarence Street, Sydney*


Nicholas Chevalier, the lately-deceased
artist, did not find a place in “Who’s Who,”
although his namesake, the author of coster
ballads, is duly accorded the honor of a para-
graph.
It is lamentably discouraging to the pursuit
of a manly though ill-paid calling that the sole
Govt, institution in N.S.W. appointed to impart
instruction in navigation should be a juvenile
criminal school-ship.
S.M. Herald (March 21) flatters itself
that Freetrade is spreading, and asserts as evi-
dence thereof that in the United States “ the cry
for reciprocity is growing apace so that a wider
foreign market may be open to them.” Seeing
that, since the present rigid Protective tariff came
into force, the U.S. export trade has swelled up
continuously till now it is the biggest in the world,
beating that of Britain very badly, the Yankee
must be a whale for exports if he wants a still
wider market.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion i If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. lerhaps your knees are swollen, the ioints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skih
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
miDiM l'," 11 ! 11 , 1 to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CUKE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; butIWILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured,
send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Le<rs
Housemaid s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, tumours. Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists. Sores,
Gr V? t Britain, 1/Rd. per bx. Prepared by
AIJJERI (3, l'arringdon-street, London, England.
InuWn ’.HA'Ipl'T BKOS., Sydney Purchasers shou.d
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on ;ach box. (Regd. copyright).
30 Days’ Trial.
gf
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
KELTS and
A TELIA NCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our“EUEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a sleady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cine you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount, paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTICE. -Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), jivin''
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Stub hit, SYDNEY.
CALVERTS
CARBOLIC
TOOTH
POWDER
IS THE BEST DENTAL
PRESERVATIVE.
Has the Largest Sale of any Dentifrice.
Sold by Chemists, Stores, &c.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng,
o&sOb
ORIGINAL WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUG
fifIRSNUtE 54U
SA UCE.
sauc
f^AMorsstS
O&Ab i)x^r
'&ry^rU>
AGENTS
VIRGOE, SON & CHAPMAN,
& D. COHEN & CO., SYDNEY.
gf
PLAIN NOME TALK.
EMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1200 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1901 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted to any address for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made icr all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; Is 6dpost.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
The Art of Wrestling, post Is. Games, post 2/6
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, Or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, is posted.
Seoret History of the Court of England, 1/6 post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
Sanpow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free. I
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Ciievasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d pasted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
The Wife’s Handbook, Is 2d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid’
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is Od.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is 3d.
Pa, Ma and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music complete), Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6<l posted.
Send for my Illustrated Big: Book
Catalogue— post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
33r. Clarkson’s Electric Eeli,
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Dr. Clarkson’s Re-Invigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
vigour.
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dvs-
peptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
parts, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-IN VIGO it ATOR
will bring happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and Organs is fr.w wonderful
THEIR TOUGH IS MAGNETIC. " y
Price—ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
gd
oalloewrite- OWL gft DKUG STORL!,
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH
JPrioe 6d. Posted Bd.
■jsKP i 'Vi
■
'
■ -
'
I 13 ;;•'
wmm
, ■ ’ -i.
SNaf** :;.,'y
nj *. • i
m :
■•: • ' . .... '
- - * - ..
:■ . - .. . A',Z
■ K,
*£
■
WMA
m • , ;
■-
PUSS
HERR RASSMUSSEN (HANS PETER RASMUSSEN),
The Celebrated Danish Botanist,
Proprietor and Discoverer of the World-Famed Alfaline Herbal Remedies,
which have been the means of effecting the most marvellous Cures for Blood,
Skin and Nervous Diseases ever heard of in Australia.
Herr Rassmussen’s Australian Career:
It is about Twenty Years since Herb
Rassmussen introduced his Herbal Remedies
to the Australian Public. At that time
he was only known to the public as a Botanist
pure and simple, having devoted almost his
whole life to the study of that most useful
and interesting branch of science. It how-
ever, soon dawned on Herr Rassmussen that
immense virtues existed in many plants which
were entirely unknown to medical men, and
that it was his duty towards his fellow man
to bring these new discovered Herbal Remedies
within the means of suffering humanity.
Herr Rassmussen at once set to work,
and his entire energy was directed towards
extracting the medical properties from all
kinds of plants, and putting them up in the
most suitable and practical form, according
to the nature of the complaints which they
had been found a cure for.
Pills and Powders were found to be the
most practical form to administer these new
Herbal Remedies.
It is unnecessary to particularise here the
immense success Herr Rassmussen met with
in his venture twenty years ago ; suffice it to
say that in less than twelve months the
great and wonderful cures brought about by
his Alfaline Herbal Remedies were known
throughout Australia, New Zealand, and many
other parts of the world. Testimonials and
Honors arrived from all parts. Gold Medals
from Paris and other places were awarded, and
Herr Rassmu.ssen’s name has been a house-
hold word ever since. (Sydney Press.)
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Herbal Remedies!
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
are a guaranteed cure for all Nervous Di eases’
Weak Spine, Brain and Nerves, Poor Memory
Tired Fteling, Melancholia, Spots before the
Eyes, etc. Boxes, 6/- and 12/-; courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS
are a permanent cure for Wasting Diseases in
Women, Anaemia, and a perfect Blood and
Nerve Tome Boxes, 6/- & 12/-; courses, 23/6,
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS
are a permanent cure for all Chronic Blood
and Skin Diseases, Blotches, Blood Disorders,
Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, &c.
Boxes, 6/- and 12/-; courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE LIVER & KIDNEY PILLS
cure Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulence,
Heartburn, Wind, Biliousness and Headache.
Boxes, One Shilling.
ALFALINE RHEUMATIC PILLS.
Guaranteed to cure Rheumatism, Gout,
Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted 3/-,
6/-, 12/- & 23/6. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
ALFALINE ASTHMA & COUGH PILLS.
A wonderful remedy for Coughs, Colds, Con-
sumption, Bronchitis, Influenza and Asthma.
Boxes, posted, 3/-, 6/-, 12/- & 23/6.
GENERAL REMEDIES.
Alfaline Pile Powders, cure internal and
external Piles, boxes 3/- and 6/- ; Varicocele
Powders, boxes 6/-; Blood Capsules or
Globulus, 6/- ; Fat-Reducing Powders, which
removes corpulency, 6/- ; Hair Restorer, 6/-;
Corn Cure, 1/- ; Ointment, 1/-; Eucalyptus
Oil and Jujubes, boxes 1/-; Flesh-Producing
Powders, 6/-; Worm Tablets, 1/-; Headache
Tablets, 1/- ; Electric Belts, Suspenders,
Bandages, etc. Circulars with all particulars
sent Free.
REMEDIES BY POST A SPECIALTY.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has made special arrangements for attending
personally to his Clients living in the Country, and Letters will receive
most careful attention.
His Remedies will be forwarded to sufferers, packed in plain cover and
unobserved, together with Advice and Directions. Letters should be addressed
to Herr Rassmussen’s full name—HANS PETER RASMUSSEN—and
Registered if containing Money.
Herr Rassmussen’s Addresses:
Head Office: 547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
ALSO AT
MELBOURNE—ISO Bourke Street
BRISBANE—3O9 Queen Street
ADELAIDE—IS Pulteney Street
N. 2.—91 Lambton Quay, Wellington
W. A. —PERTH—IBI Hay Street
KALG-OOELlE—Hannan Street
BOULDEE ClTY—Piesse Street
FEEMANTLE—II7 High Street
A FREE BOOK SENT ON APPLICATION,
with Advice, Xesumouiais, and List of Alfaline Remedies.


Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER ....
Take
REUTER’S LITTLE PILLS:
For ail LIVER complaints-
A Witness.
She is Positive.
When witnesses are examined, the court insists
that they- shall tell only what they know, not
what they think or believe. Time and again the
KUSH.
wandering witness is
brought back to the
point by the stern
voice of the Judge:
“Madam, we are
not interested in
what you think; we
want to hear what
you actually know.”
There is no such
trouble experienced
with the worthy
witnesses of thecures
wrought by Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root
Pills; they know
what they are talk-
ing about, and what
cured them. One of
these now speaks.
The evidence given
by Mrs. E. Gant,
who resides at 338 Young-street, Annandale.
Her experience is best related in her own words,
which are as follow :—“ I have been a sufferer
from acute indigestion. For five or six years I
had a pain in the chest, and thought I had lung
trouble, and at times I raised blood. My husband,
a railway employee, and a man at the works,.
recommended Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. I
had tried many other remedies, and several
doctors, but was unable to get relief. I bought a
bottle of Dr. Morse’s Pills, and after taking half a
bottle felt much better. I continued taking them,
and am entirely cured. I can safely recommend
them to all people suffering as I was. I have
lived here for fourteen years, and am well known,
and am healthy and strong.” Dr Morse’s Indian
Root Pills are a perfect blood purifier, and a
positive cure for biliousness, indigestion, constipa-
tion, headaches, sallow complexion, liver and
kidney troubles, piles, pimples, boils and
blotches, and for female ailments. Sold by
chemists and storekeepers* Is. per bottle, or
six bottles 6s. 6d. Packed in amber bottles, and
the full name blown thereon.*
OPEN SESAME.—Hunyadi Janos Wateris the
“ open sesame ”of the human organism. Speedy,
sure and gentle, it fulfils every indication in health
and disease. It is a therapeutical arsenal in itself.
Indispensable to millions of human beings all
over the world.*
According to one account, by a private
soldier, who knew and sympathised with Harry
Moran t, the officers of the Bush veldt Carbineers
shot (1) one Boer prisoner, (2) some more Boer
prisoners, (3) a man named Byrne and 30 Boer
prisoners. “Some more” is a vague quantity,
but, from the acts of this one company, there
could be gathered a good deal of justification for
the European charges against the conduct of the
war. k
JOHN JAMESON
“THREE-STAR” WHISKEY.
Agents : J. BAERE JOHNSTON & CO., I.oftns Street, Sydney.
REP BIRD BICYCLES
PROVED BY ACTUAL RESULTS TO BE STRONG ON THE ROAD.
FAST ON THE TRACK . .
We can meet you with easy terms.
GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King Street, Sydney. n«—
Hardy’s Tintara Wines
Absolutely Pure;
Adelaide:
CURRIE STREET
A
Fully Matured;
Melbourne:
COLLINS STREET
700 Medals, etc.
Sydney:
GROSVENOR-BTREET
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Spite of forebodings to the contrary, prompted
principally by prevalence of plague, drought and un-
A condit ‘ons, attendance at opening
A ' J ; o ' Aulun ? n meet not only equalled but
d fi ? ures for same da y last year ; there were over
people present.
* * * *
Malcontents on the day for Doncaster Mile were
Debenture, West Australian, Industrious and De Aar.
1 wenty-two stripped. Victorian flier Vanity Fair and
Beanba, went out firm favorites at fours, with former
most asked for. Mo had a happy time, as nearly every-
thing carded was backed to a greater or less extent. Lady
Laura (about whom writer saw 100 to 1 offered and taken)
set the pace, Purser being left absolutely behind at the
post. Lady Laura was in front rounding for home till
“ n £f* sl i tl ® r dr ew up level with her, when both fell off
and T.M.S. (another 100 to 1 chance) showed the road,
nut, better than half way to the post, Sir Foote came
with a strong sustained run and won with something in
hand from Purser, who had travelled right through the
held in an eye-opening fashion. T.M.S. was third. First
Consul passed the judge fourth, full of running ; Acetine,
Manildre, Nymagee, Beanba and Sir Evan were the next
lot as named. Sir Foote was well placed throughout, but
I urser s bid was sensational under the circumstances and
demonstrated that with a fair start he would at least have
given the ultimate winner trouble. Vanity Fair
was hampered the whole journey, and when she
did get an opening couldn’t make good use of it
through being fairly pumped out. This field was the
smallest for the Doncaster since ’B9, the biggest during
that term being 36, when Marvel and Oremorne came out
atop.
*** • *
.Sir Foote was very much under a cloud during
the week, and where at one period 4’s was the best avail-
able price, and very little at that, B’s and 10’s were freely
offered afterwards. On the course, too, his price fluc-
tuated. 1) rom 12’s it shortened to B’s, then went back to
12 s again, and, finally at flag-fall, while only B’s could be
secured from one section of Mo., another lot howled 10’s
as if numping a load that weighted them painfully. Ex-
planation is that when the nag might have been neavily
backed ikey only wanted to “lay” at an absurdly short
price, and then not to anything worth taking. Writer
knows an instance of one punter going begging for six
50 s without success, and during his hunt being told by
at least three alleged “big books” that they weren’t
doing business with the Futurity and Newmarket Stakes
winner at any price. Subsequently, Sir Foote failed to
appear on the track one morning, and next few days only
did slow work, then a heavy “ commish ” was executed
in favor of Sir Evan, supposed to be in the same interest,
while Sir F.’s stable chum, Beanba, hardened till she
started equal favorite with Vanity Fair at the top of quo-
tations. All this caused Mo. to treat the English nag as
sure “ dead meat," and he aoted accordingly, but punters
also took the alarm ; hence, summed up, the bag had
mujh the bet. or of the deaL
N.S.W. SWIMMING CONTINGENT FOR
BRITAIN: GEORGE READ, F.C.V.
LANE, and MANAGER G. E. FARMER
in the middle.
Reported that Sir Foote may not race again and
will be reserved for stud purposes. He’ll retire laden
with laurels, having gathered in three big races—Caul-
field Futurity Stakes, V.R.O. Newmarket and A.J.O.
Doncaster Handicap in succession—a record. Sir Foote
and Wakeful are the only two nags with Newmarket and
Doncaster Handicaps to their credit, and, strangely
enough, they put up their records in successive years.
* * * m
Finish of First Hurdles at Randwick was close
indeed. Ten lined up. Coming round the home turn
Rio led from Marton. Then favorite Ireland’s Eye ranged
up alongside'the leader and a grim struggle ensued that
worked excitement to snapping point. Up the straight,
the two nags ran neck and neck. They were together
over the last leap—at the take-off, in the air and landing.
Here Rio moved away a length best, and husky-voiced
thousands roared his name, but jock. Ohevally brought
whip and spur to bear and Ireland’s Eye hung on
marvellously till the last half dozen strides saw him forge
to the front and win by half a length. It was a revelation
in the way of effort by a hitherto most unreliable nag.
Ireland’s Eye is a syr. old by Gibraltar from Blowing
Stone (imp.) and was bred by Mr. Francis Foy but is now
the property of W. Kelso.
» * * *
Concerning the reliability or otherwise of the
watch. At N.S.W. turf head-quarters, Saturday, impos-
sible figures (3.53 j) were shown for Ireland’s Eye’s win of
Hurdles Later equally absurd, but t’other way
about, 5.53 j appeared, and, later still, seekers after the
“krect” thing ascertained that 4.53 was right. Official
timing is indeed a great aid towards sizing up relative
merits of contending nags.
» * • *
Grasspan, fresh from success in V.R.C. St.
Leger, was dubbed sure for A.J.O. red riband Saturday,
and started at a shade of odds on, but never had a look
in at any stage. Sir Leonard (5 to 2 against), hitherto
voted more a sprinter than a stayer, forced the pace, being
allowed to pretty well run his own race. Caravel tugged
and pulled m front for six furlongs and was done with
there, then Sir Leonard came home easily from Brunt-
wood, who had Grasspan finishing fast at- his girths.
Assumed by some judges that never too reliable Grasspan
had struck one of his bad days and may do better later.
Lack of faith in the nag’s form was evidenced by eager-
ness with which various Moseses closed on all Grasspan
money in sight; also the fact that some who hadn’t been
fielding up to then donned their satchels to do business.
Time (3.12) equals Clean Sweep’s effort last year, and is
faster than that of a majority of other previous winners,
though on occasions it has been beaten. Cobbitty’s 3.7j’
in ’95, is the best ever done. Sir Leonard was bred at
Havilah (N.S.W.) stud by Mr. H. O. White, and is by
imported Impetus—son of Salisbury—from Uegado by
Vespasian (imp.), from Legacy—sister to Legrand—by
Epigram (imp.) from Legend (imp.). He succeeded in a
number of small races as a two-year-old, and through
current season has appropriated Hampden Stakes at
Tatbs. Olub August meet, Villiers Stakes at A.J.O.
Summer meet, and ran second to Oast Iron in Carrington
Stakes. Bruntwood, who is by Grafton (imp.)from Love-
lock by Lochiel from My Love, by Yattendon, was bred
at Widden by Mr. A. E. Thompson ; his only victory was
Nursery Handicap at A.J.O. Autumn meet last year
* * • *
Blue Spec, winner (from 12 others) of two-
year-old Maiden Stakes at A. J.O. meet, Saturday, shaped
like a coming top-notcher. Holding a good position
all the journey, he romped away and won as he liked.
Blue Spec is by True Blue—son of Hotchkiss —from
Specula, by Splendor (son of Speculum), from Bonnie
Spec, by Robinson Crusoe, from Lady Spec (imp.) by
Speculum. He was bred at Taree stud' by Mr. A. Hooke,
junr., and went cheap (for 45g5.) at last yearling sales.
* * * •
All final acceptors (totalling 20) lined up for
Sydney Oup, Monday. Number was five more than last
year, when San Fran won, and one less than La Carabine
beat in 1900. Betting was brisk. Though only a “ thou.”
was taken about Wakeful at card-call on previous Satur-
day night, a heavy load of coin and a lengthy list of
booked wagers were in evidence for her on the day, and
she hardened till fours (only threes in many places) were
the best obtainable. Ace of Diamonds went out second
choice (6 to 1) through false position occupied by him at
finish of Autumn Stakes, Saturday. ’Twas busily
bruited about that owner (Wootton) of last-
named nag had backed both—his t’other was
Acetine—but latter would land him most money.
Blue Metal, Lucknow, Pelissier, and Warrior 11.
were also soundly supported. Settling down to racing,
Warrior 11. and Wakeful were fighting for the lead till
Wakeful was steadied at the half-mile ; then Patronage
came along, and, with Acetine next, raced into the
straight. All this time Wakeful remained in a handy
position, and never lost it till going forward for the final
effort. Coining round the home turn, Acetine was ahead
well clear of everything, with Wakeful next, and a great
roar went up for the grey'. Meanwhile the top-weight
(Wakeful) was moving nearer, striding grandly and evenly,
till at the distance-post the pair were on terms in a struggle
all to themselves, for the balance of the field was already
hopelessly out of the hunt. They battled, locked together
a few strides, then the gritty daughter of Trenton shook
her opponent off and absolutely owned the race at the
half-distance, getting home with a good margin to spare.
Great cheers greeted the gallant little mare’s wonderful
achievement. Lucknow, Ace of Diamonds, and Warrior
11. shaped encouragingly over the greater part of the
distance, but Blue Metal (first favorite in the earlier por-
tion of the day’s business), Pelissier, Tillimby, and
Patronage never gave their backers a hope. Though
Wakeful’s was a record-breaking performance, she
finished strong, and her 9.7 troubled her so little that one
was left guessing what she could not have humped
(within reason) to the front.
* » * •
Champagne Stakes at Rand wick (Monday)
brought out some high-class performers in Brakpan,
Gratia, Ceres and Lord Middleton. Last season’s thou-
sand guineas yearling, Carrageen, also ran. Spite of the
fact that Brakpan was loaded with a 101 b. penalty,
punters heaped odds of 6 to 4 on him, and much money
was in sight and taken at 6 to 4 on the Newcastle young-
ster,Ceres. Race resulted as betting indicated, and was vir-
tually only a match between the two most heavily backed.
Ceres shot away from the barrier with such a vigorous
jump that she led Brakpan by three lengths When half
through the journey. Brakpan wiped the deficit out
entering the straight, and then it looked like being a
good race, but the favorite soon showed pronounced
superiority, and, in face of being borne out to the centre,
won very easily by a length. Carrageen was third,
eight lengths away. It is interesting that Brakpan
thus succeeded in what his brother Grasspan failed at
last year, and winning with the aforementioned penalty
up brings him level with the feats of Rudolph, Aurum,
Bobadil, and Ibex. He was bred by Mr. T. Payten, and
got by Grafton from Piecrust, by Martini-Henry from
imported Rusk, by Brown Bread, but though trained at
Randwick, is owned by Mr. Agar Wynne (Victoria’s Soli-
citor-General). Brakpan ran second in the Debutant
Stakes to Heloise, won the Mona Nursery with 9.2 from
83 others, and was unplaced in the Maribyrnong in the
spring. But at recent autumn meet of V.R.O. he won
Ascot Vale Stakes and Select Stakes. Ceres ran quite
up so her form—time, 1 min. 14Jsec., evidences that.
* * • *
Attendance at Randwick, Sydney Cup-day, was
something in excess of 20,000, and among the largest ever
known. Two records were created. Wakeful’s win of
Sydney Oup in 3.28 is jsec. better than Carbine’s oft-
quoted Melbourne Cup time, and 3secs. ahead of the best
ever previously done in the big N.S.W. event itself
which stands to the credit of Carbine ('B9), his son Wal-
lace (’96), Merloolas (’9B), and Diffidence (’99). Champagne
Stakes, 6fur., were cut out by Brakpan in 1.14 J; the prior
speediest was Ibex’s 1.14 J, accomplished last year.
* » • «
That some Sydney handicappers have reduced
allotting weights to a fine art is evidenced by the number
of dead-heats recorded lately. Atop of those mentioned
herein (29/3/’O2) galloways Empress and Shopwoman, at
Kensington last week, ran consecutive dead-heats in the
Novice Handicap. The third effort produced a heart-
breaking struggle over every foot of the trip till, at the
post, Shopwoman just poked her neck in front right on
the moment. Mo. fairly revelled in the thing, for at
different stages punters laid odds on both nags, thus
making the bejewelled one a sure winner whichever way
the battle ended.
* * * m
Development of Onkaparinga (S. A.) races is inter-
est ng. Club only meets once every year, and has existed
30 years. Originally £2O was top prize : now money given
away tots up £3OOO. J b
* • • •
“A.R.C.”: The only suspicious—say, rather,
the most unsatisfactory—circumstance re the running of
La Carabine at Flemington was the newspaper treatment
of the subject. There was something to be explained
but no explanation was forthcoming.
A N.S.W. Big Scrub resident put up an
enviable record. Mr. W. J. Dockrill, of Casino, who drew
first horse in Tatt. s Australian Cup sweep, winning
£4500, only recently drew second horse in a previous
sweep, netting £2250. He has thus won £6750 within a
few months. He is doubtless agin the Federal Govern-
ment.
* * * *
J. attersall s Ballarat Oup sweep closed with
40,000 subs. The last three horses to be drawn, Annotate
37,233, Flagship 38,682, Cluster 39,960, finished first
second and third in that order. What’s the odds against
that being repeated. [Any odds, since, alas, “ Tatt ”
must now go.—Ed B.j
* * • *
Apropos the “Tattersall” affair—if the postal
authorities act logically and fairly, they will make it their
business to see that no man known to be in business as a
layer of the odds enjoys the privilege of receiving a letter
through the post, or a telegram ; also, the secretaries of
racing-clubs will be absolutely shorn of all postal faci-
lities.
* * * *
Yol. 13 of the Australian Racing Chronicle
published by J. J. Miller, Melb.,dates from Aug. Ist 1901
to Jan. 31st, 1902, and includes particulars of a hundred
more race meetings than have appeared in any previous
half-year’s record. The price this time is 7s. 6d. as be-
fore, but the editor announces with sorrow, not un-
mingled with scorn, that the horsey public of Australia
has not given the Chronicle enough patronage to pay
expenses. The price of the next vol. due in August will
be 10s. or half a guinea, and if that fails to yield a living
wage to the publisher anything may happen. 6
Zealot-Lady Yardley sire Castor (imp.), cast in
his box and struggling, fractured a hind fetlock and the
hind quarters became paralysed. He was insured for
£lOOO. Castor was bred at ’Ome in ’B3, and came this
way eight years later—brought out by late Mr. W. J,
Wilson, of St. Albans. Mr. Morrin (Wellington Park stud.
M.L.) subsequently bought him. Among the best of his
Set were Cravat, Record Reign, Fulman, Autares,
ollarette, Casket and Coronet. Castor's list of winners
is a lengthy one—season ’9B saw him top all others in
M.L.
• • * *
Sydney Agri. Society’s show crowd, Monday,
numbered 64,000 (beating all records), and gate-
takings totted up £2785 odd, as against £2889
same day in ’Ol. Nine nags showed out for
the high-jump competition, and last year’s winner
(Desmond) scored. All competitors but one cleared
sft. Three more failed up to sft. 9in. Newhaven,
Mahonga, Andover, Desmond, and Rattler negotiated the
6ft. leap. At 6ft. 3in. Desmond fell in his initial attempt,
but next time got over it easily. T’others found the task
too stiff, and were then put at 6ft. IJin. for second money.
Newhaven, Mahonga, Andover, and Rattler were not
equal to it, probably through failing light, and judges
decided to go on next morning. W. M‘Gee rode the
winner.
• * • •
Interesting to note the different views of betting
legislation expressed to an Inquiry Committee in London
by the Duke of Devonshire and “ Billy ” Jones, the sport
from Ballarat. The dry Duke sees no necessity for
licensing bookmakers. His Nibs bets only with the big
fry himself. He runs no risk of being “ welshed,” and
apparently he doesn’t care a rap for the sorrows of the
punter who, when he backs a winner, is likely to
get a smack on the nose from the man who disputes the
wager. Devonshire’s Duke spoke of betting as a lordly
form of gamble, confined to the guinea ring of “ private
clubs.” Billy Jones, speaking from his Australian ex-
perience as the owner of Bravo, told the committee that
betting was a democratic dissipation in the country he
came from. The bookmaker, as Billy sees him, is a person
who ought to be licensed like a stockbroker. Hard to
find any subject on which a high-grade Bwitish peah and
a colonial-experienced member of the great Jones family
would form exactly the same opinion.
* * * *
Featherweight bruising supremacy of the con-
tinent is down for punching argument at Sydney Gaiety
A.O. Monday night between N.S.W. crack “ Bob ” Turner
and Victorian champ. “Micko” Walsh. Walsh push
looks upon success as a “ moral.” Turner gang merely
insists that its slugger has the better chance. Walsh is an
unknown quantity in Sydney, but is said to be something
of a human bull-pup, who never hauls off, and hits all the
time as if driven by a gas engine. Turner is a glutton for
stoush and also wildly generous with the same commodity
and is still under 20. Walsh looks well over 30 ;if he
isn’t, appearances are much against him. Walsh may
have matters at white heat for perhaps half-a-dozen
rounds and if he doesn’t win in that time he’ll go under.
Compelling Turner to scale 9st. at ring-side is one big
factor in the Victorian’s favor, as Turner will have a job
to do so and still do himself justice.
All - legs - and - wings - pancake - chested Bert
Weeks and that sturdy, hard-hitting Melbournite, Harry
North, scrapped hotly, at Sydney Gaiety A.C., for the
alleged Australian bantam supremacy. According to
M.Q. rules, the bantam, limit is Bst., and yet North’s
weight was given as Bst. lib., and he looked pounds more.
The fight was interesting, as Weeks, much the cleverer,
could make no impression on the Melbournite, who
slogged steadily away, and although he rarely landed,
owing to Weeks’skilful evasions, was effective when he
did. Weeks looked as though he ought to have been
at home taking cod-liver oil ; although exceedingly
clever, his punches had no smashing povyer, and in the
11th round he was in such a bad way that the sponge had
to be elevated. At present, Weeks looks much more
likely to qualify for a sick-bed than for slogging cham-
pionships.
* * * *
All the cricket clubs about Adelaide cancelled
their fixtures on March 22 to attend a farewell to E. T.
Smith, their consistent patron. He is said to be president
of something over 70 athletic clubs. One Saturday,
recently, the tennis men were playing for his champion-
ship cup, and at the same time, half-a-mile away, the
cyclists were battling for his medal and badge. The next
week his trophy was rowed for on the Port river—and
so on.
• * • »
“ What is the tangible outcome of all the
betting that goes on ? It is merely the support in
luxurious idleness of thousands of potential scoundrels,
in whose face the hardness of the criminal type is
weakened by the flabby veneer of the lazy sensualist. On
the vast sums of money which the betting public circu-
lates these gentry levy the tax that juts their gold-
mounted stomachs into space and keeps up in some little
style their harems, judiciously subdivided in the interests
of peace into various suburban homes, where each sultana
struggles to maintain a dubious respectability by passing
as wife of a sea captain in the intercolonial trade or of a
commercial traveller.”—Melb. Age. It is remarked by a
good many Melbourne people that the “respectable”
Argus never makes such irreverent references to the
Btummick and moral status of Ikey Mo.
• * * *
The Bulletin’s London correspondent :—Why
has Australia no “Joe Craig” to perambulate the interior
of its cricket grounds and harangue the waiting thousands
in the intervals of big matches ? One important reason
is, doubtless, that the circling of any such person as the
“ Joe ” of England’s pitches would, at Sydney or Mel-
bourne, result in such an arrival of mud, gravel, bottles,
and asphalte upon the turf as to seriously interfere with
boundaries. Here Craig is an unique institution. On all
great occasions at Lords, the Oval, Leyton, or even in
Yorkshire, Lancashire, or elsewhere he is in evidence
before play begins hurrying round the inner circle calling
out who has won the toss, who is to bat, whether Ranji
will play, &c. If the crowd jibes a player or a side, J.C.
admonishes them, begging them to be Britons and give
fair play, and they hurl not bricks nor concrete at him.
Of course, the game (J.O.’s) pays handsomely. He sells
his “pomes” on this or some other match, and
clears several pounds daily. Certainly, he is a
monopoly, clever of tongue, neat, but not “nasty,”
of repartee, and never fails to turn the laugh off
himself. The clubs let him go everywhere practically,
and he has the tact of an enamelled ambassador. Perhaps
some bottle-scarred, battle-scared Australian hero from
S’Africa with a blockhouse face and a kopje-crusted body
will try J.C.’s game “ down under ? ”
» • * *
A certain M.L. horse-owner christened an in-
different-looking prad after the name of a house occupied
by a married couple of his acquaintance. The moke
didn’t win a race in 18 months. By that time the couple
were divorced and then the owner altered the name of
the failure to the maiden name of the lady, whereupon
neddy pulled off four wins in rapid succession.
The Fitzroys, batting at Rockhampton (Q.)
the other day, made 2 runs in their first innings (one of
them an overthrow). Ten men made ducks.
* * * •
N.S.W.-Q. cricket match in Brisbane, Satur-
day, was the eighth 11 aside tussle between the States.
Up to this Q. has only won the first, while t’other six
went to N.S.W., each of last three with an innings to the
good. Old Sydney players, Atkins and Patrick, were on
Q. side in the latest engagement. A feature of the match
was that each team had'an aboriginal bowler, the Banana-
lander being Henry and the New South Wales man
Marsh. N.S.W. won the toss and at stumps draw on first
day had accumulated 215 for 9 wickets. Hogue (not out)
74, and Evers (33) were highest scores. Last wicket fell
on Monday for 248. Q- notched 174, Atkins (not out) 59,
and P. and J. Carew (28 each) topping the list. In their
second innings visiting side lost 2 for 53.
* • » *
Swimmer Dick Cavill scored another world’s
record last week. At Booroodabin baths (Brisbane) he
clipped 1 2-ssec. off “Freddy” Lane’s figures (1.16) for
120 yards. Bananaland champion Frank Gailey, who
started with Cavill, equalled the previous best.
• • * *
A Maori youth lately jumped over the great
Wairua Falls into the deep pool below —84ft. He came
up all right and swam ashore. The crowd which wit-
nessed the feat collected over £l2 for the foolhardy per-
former.
• * * *
M. Champion, premier swimmer of M.L., who
could have secured a much better billet, has elected to
join the foorce. His appointment dates from the first of
April 1
* • * *
Not much “frill” about M.L. Gov. Ranfurly.
Asked to patronise a Dunedin bike meet, he not only did
so, but took the pistol and acted as starter.
» * * •
Phil Glenister, ancient pigeon slaughterer,
sport generally, and pampered one of Sydney Tatt.’s,
t’other day gathered in Melbourne Gun Club’s Moorabbin
Cub and “ Curtis ” trophy in one afternoon, killing 26 out
of a possible 31. “ Old Phil ” can do better than this
when at his top ; he also still holds a fore-front place
among billiardists, and hasn’t many equals at the system-
racking pastime of bowls.
• * * •
’Murka owns a phenom. bikist in J. Nelson.
He is just over 17, 5.1 high, and scales 8.7. His first
burst into prominence was breaking the world’s five miles
amateur record. At last season’s close he owned 35
world’s non-professional “ bests,” achieved against time,
and 11 in actual racing. His 35m. 1055yds. in an hour
tops anything ever done by other riders with the same
status.
* * • »
The public have awakened to the fact that
athletic exercise is the true guide to health. The Massey
Harris Bicycle Depot, 357 George-street, is showing fuD
stocks of all the most up-to-date athletic requisites.*


mu
™£-Qnly Beal, Reliable Bicycle
Massey-Harris Bicycle
SEND, GALL OR WRITE FOR OUR NEW BOOKLET.
CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR CO., LTD.
Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, Wellington.
Westrallan Address: Hay Street, Perth, and Hannan Street, Kalgroorlie.
MMaiPasMMM
(REGISTERED)
THE FINEST MADE.
fgd
5e115....
at the best price
because it is the
best Butter.
★
Satisfies
the most exacting,
churned daily from
the finest Cream.
The N.S.W. Fresh Food & Ice Co. Li!-
fg
“ SHARPSHOOTING
For Sport and War”
fgdfg
By W. W. GREENER.
Hits the Mark!
1/- NETT.
If you wish to know how to guard the
Empire—if you are one of those who will
rally round the old flag—read this book.
It teaches all about and Rifle
Shooting, how to aim and make allowance,
&c., and it contains chapters on Ranges
and Rifle Clubs, with a history of the part
played by the Armed Civilian in the past.
The Best Shilling’s Worth ever .Published!
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations for 1/- nett.
Of all Booksellers, orC.W. Buckland, Agent
for W. W. Greener. 317 Collins St., MELB.
F°n
the person who is not a millionairi
ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY
That is “'Ellis’ King Street Coffee
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near
Office. Proprietor—GEO.
g—
?, there is ONLY
AT in SYDNEY.
Palace,” "WS
the General Post
W. ELLIS.
A Crowbar is Necessary
I
PS;
X
\
\
to
shift
our
Dunlop-
Kelly
Solid
Rubber
Carriage
Tyres.
They are wired on by an Electric Troces,
prevents their coming off.
that absolutely
No Passenger Vehicle is complete or up-to-date
unless fitted with our .
Solid
Rubber
Solid
Rubber
*
msw/i
yrc&
They absorb all Vibration and Noise, and
Double the Life of your Trap.
All particulars in our Artistic Catalogue and Price List, which we will be pleased to forward
■ on application to —
Tb€ PtiQlop Poediqatic Tyre Co. of Ads. Ltd.
ISO CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
And at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch (N.Z.).
Writes “ 8.H.Q.” “ Have just returned from
a trip to Woolgar gold-field (N.Q.), which was opened 20
years ago. About 50 men on field, among them some who
came at the very beginning, and have ever since
remained. Some good reefs now being opened up. The
Mowbray co. are down 152 ft. on reef varying from 2 to
sft. ; have a good winding-plant, and 10-head battery with
latest improvements. Last stone went 25dwts. without
tailings. Soapspar trial crushings going through looks
over an ounce. Roman Grown, Blue Jacket, and St.
George reefs all being scratched, owing, doubtless, to dry
season. No water in any of the mines, but plenty of
grass and water ; beef scarce, but there are thousands of
neighboring stations’ cattle on gold-field reserve, getting
free agistment, and yet the owners refuse to sell cattle .
Much inconvenience through warden’s and survey work
being done from Georgetown, with which place no direct
mail communication exists, while at Hughenden an old-
experienced warden P.M. is stationed. Two hotels now
on field ; one had nine bottles of whisky only, the
other on election day had got down to something they
called brandy and a half-bottle of sarsaparilla. Dance at
night—ls gents, 2 lydies. Dr. Routh and Phil Tolano,
two mining enthusiasts, are now trying to promote co. to
work Soapspar reef. Woolgar would be a good field for
the poor man if Govt. Would erect batteries as in W.A.”
* * * •
Hampton Plains Estate (W.A), which owns
150,000 acres of freehold mineral lands on goldfields in
immediate vicinity of Coolgardie and Kalgoorlie, has,
after years of dog-in-the-manger, decided to open its ter-
ritory to prospectors absolutely free of rent and survey-
fees until blocks prove payable by actual crushings,
which the co. will undertake at 15s. per ton. Go. likewise
waives its claim to alternate blocks. Battery of 20 heads
12501 b. stamps lately started on stone from Merry Hamp-
ton mine, to be followed by trial parcel from Queen mine.
Battery connected with different mines by 11 miles of
tramlines operated by locomotive. Merry Hampton pro-
perty fairly well developed, exposing large quartz reef
worth possibly lOdwt. Queen contains lode 6 fit. wide,
said by manager to be 5 to 6dwt. ore. Actual results will
be known shortly
* * * *
The tailings and concentrates from Quigley and
party’s claim, the Great Oversight, Bulong, increased the
gross yield to 14570 z. from 32 tons, an average of 45Joz.
per ton. Gold worth over £4 an ounce, so that the two
fortunate owners collar nearly £3OOO apiece on this par-
cel. This is the richest lot treated at a mill, as no gold
was got bv u o :lying.
8 ' • * • *
Kalgoorue Amalgamated : A resurrection of the
following litter of cats —Hannan’s Central, Hannan s
Croesus, New Hannan’s Excelsior, Hannan’s Britannia
and Hannan’s Block 45—just floated with nominal capital
of £400,000. Working capital. £50,000 ; reserve shares,
100,000. Property consists of 122 acres situated N.W. of
the Brown Hill. Block 45 is chiefly remarkable for being
the site of the first telluride ore found in W.A., and for
some remarkably rich patches since. Even if the new
venture proves a frost, the spending of £50,000 will be a
perfect godsend to the district. The Colonial Goldfields
Go. kindly finds the cash, so that holders of the five dere-
licts get a fresh run for their money without putting
their hands in their pockets. And it won’t be the direc-
tors’ fault if they don’t get a good run, too.
• * * *
The new 100 ft. poppet-legs on Pomeroy shaft cf
Hannan’s Oroya (W.A.) as well as new Austral Ot s
winding-engine are now in position, and both will be soon
ready for work. Meanwhile the north drives from leve s
6 and 7 are proceeding ; former will probably have to go
600 ft. and latter 200 ft. to cut rich Iron Duke chut' .
Shaft should cut chute at about 750 ft. Oroya should be
good holding for anyone with spare cash ; carting ore to
Hannan’s Star mill from South block now in progress.
* * * *
Great Boulder Perseverance is now at the head
of W.A. producers, beating Horseshoe for Feb. by 80ozs.
Currently rumored that Frank Gardner holds at least
80,000 of co.’s 175,000 shares, and will scoop £BO,OOO over
two divs. of 10s. declared. Also stated that Gardner’s
option over 30,000 shares expires shortly, and that, being
able to take up scrip, he will give bears a squeeze. Sir
Christopher Furniss joined board March Ist, on stipula-
tion that not more than 10s. div. be declared quarterly
until a big reserve-fund in British Consols be created, so
no more than 10s. divs. need be looked for meanwhile.
Mine appears to be opening up well ; prospects improved
by underlay of Associated’s Tetley lode being located in
property by diamond drill, Bft. wide and worth 18dwts.
Management good, and the condition of the fine plant
and machinery a pleasure to behold.
* * * *
From Westralia: The Government batteries
(there are 14 of them, including the one at Greenbushes
tinfield) show a profit of over £l5OO for last six months.
Before that they made losses all the time. -Surely the
Slug Hill has reached the bottom of the mining co.’s pit!
It didn’t pay to work the mine on wages, so it was let on
tribute. And now, as the tributers can’t worry on, the
co. has to give them a bonus to stay on and keep the
leases alive.
» * * *
Possibly as a reply to Zeb. Lane’s decision to
put some life into the Collie (Westralia) coal mines the
coal-importing co’s. flop down the contract price at Fre-
mantle from 275. 6d. to 20s. sd. Collie can’t be landed at
Fremantle for less than 255. ; but Govt, (rail) contracts
will keep the local pits going at about their present rate.
A cargo of pitch, by the way, is coming from Glasgow to
give the new coal-briquette factory at Bunbury a start.
Island Eureka, Lake Austin (W.A.) came on
div. list last May, since when it has paid 3 monthly divs.
of Id., 6 of 2d., and 2 of 3d. ; total, Is. 9d. per share, or
£7OOO. Co. has capital of 80,000 shares of 2s. 6d., of
which 3Jd. only, or £1166 6s. Bd., is called up. Besides
paying £7OOO in divs., co. has paid for and erected
10-head battery out of revenue. Present monthly output
400 tons for 5000z5., and profit fully £lOOO per month.
Three levels at 100,175 and 250 ft., opened lip. Leading
stope (only first commenced at bottom level. Co. owns
23£ acres, and, at present price of 11s. its shares are
believed by writer to be very cheap. Head office and
directors on the spot, but transfer office recently opened
in Adelaide. Another reef known as the Golconda
expected to be struck, in this property.
• * • •
Golden Horseshoe (W.A.): Extra 40 heads will
start shortly. At present battery ore averages 30jdwt.,
as follows Mill, 15dwt. ; tailings, 6.Vdwt. ; slimes, 7dwt. ;
concentrates, 2dwt. To make up the yield 2200 tons of
3oz. stone from the rich telluride or boundary lode are
utilised. When the new stamps get to work the output
should be 18,0000 z., as follows :—Mill, 11,000 tons instead
of 6500, at 30£dwt., equal 16,7750 z., so that only some 500
tons will be needed from the telluride chute, instead of
2200, as now. Should the mill-ore show a considerable
falling-off in value, the increasing of the capacity of the
battery will tend to maintain the output and economise
the rich stone, which is only used to regulate the monthly
yields. Even if the ordinary ore produces only an ounce
per ton, it will then need the same amount of telluride
ore as now to maintain 18,000 oz. monthly. Which is the
system the Lake View should have adopted.
» • » •
As here predicted, the sudden jump in Brown
Hill Extended (W.A.) was a mere flash in the pan : prices,
after going up from 15s. to 325., promptly fell back. As
stated, the cause of the sudden movement in scrip was
the discovery of an Eastern lode in cross from 600 ft. level.
The ore is good where driven on for 120 ft. and payable for
4 of its 7ft. of width, but as same lode has yielded occa-
sional patches in other mines on same line—viz., Brown
Hill, Oroya East, N. Boulder, Bank of England, and Kal.
Mint—present find may mean nothing. After their
fall shares again took a jump, and whether the mine is
good or not, the bulls and bears will make an active
market in this particular scrip for some time to come.
* • * *
Alleged discovery of rich ore at 800 ft. in True
Blue lease of Hannan’s Brown Hill (W.A.) seems of little
account, as sharesduring week touched 435., the minimum
for years, though they have secovered somewhat. No
information vouchsafed by management, and inquisitive
visitors are “sooled” off the mine, which is encircled
with barbed wire entanglements. Management evidently
imagines that the property is owned by a good old Tory
squire instead of by a modern corporation. Under such
conditions “ insiders ” always grip the right end of the
stick, and “outsiders” find themselves where there is
weeping and gnashing of teeth.
* • * •
South Kalgurli: Feb. output value, £10,000;
estimated profit, £3750. If correct this is satisfactory.
* * • *
Westralia Waihi, at Davyhurst, floated in Ade-
laide on great expectations, has proved a shocking
failure. Prospectus reports stated that there was a width
of 27ft. of payable ore. This, it is alleged, has
mysteriously shrunken to less than 27in. Subsequent
reports stated that the ore being broken was worth from
2oz. to 6oz. per ton. The first test parcel of 125 tons
returned 16dwts. per ton. A wild-cat with any name
other than Waihi or Mount Morgan would smell as rank.
• • a •
There was something of the pathetic in the plea
of old mine-manager Williams, of the Johnson’s Reef
(Bendigo) addressed to the shareholders, not to despair
of the grand old mine because it had come to call-making:
“ A hundred thousand we’ve paid you in the last 10 years,
and £300,000 since the old mine and I have been together ;
and she’ll pull through now as she has pulled through
before.” Though expenses have been reduced to about a
third of what they were the co. has gone £7OOO to the
bad—a third of it during the last half-year.
* * * *
New Chum line of reef (Bendigo), although
worked in continuous length for several miles, is at pre-
sent minus a div.-paying mine. This is a repetition of its
history. When its turn comes again, the clever men who
play the waiting game —who allow others to pay shilling
calls until they "are literally starved out—will make a big
haul.
* * * *
South New Moon, Bendigo : Reported that an
offer for the mine at 90s. per share has been declined.
Market value of shares about 80s. Shareholders are san-
guine enough to believe that this amount will be paid in
divs. in less than three years.
• * * •
The temporary galvanizing of the old Champion
reef at Wedderburn (Vic.) by the discovery of a pocket of
specimens worth £l5OO, is just in keeping with the reefing
hiitory of that patchy locality. There is probably not a
better poor man’s reefing field in Vic. Ground mostly
dry; good sinking and driving; soft schists and pipe-
clay ; and it stands well. The country for miles is all
intersected with indicators, which vary from a pencil-
streak to Bin. or 9in. thick. An indicator is generally a
bluish-colored streak of aluminous matter that traverses
the country like a reef. It is a case of select your indi-
cator and follow it till it either junctions with or under-
lies into a leader or reef of quartz. At the intersection of
the two is where the patches of specimens occur. In
some cases the stone itself is followed till it meets an in-
dicator. The specimens are often just masses of almost
clean gold, and have been found from the surface down.
A working party got the latest patch at 35ft. Wedder-
burn is noted for being a place where a man can starve
for want of a pennyweight, and yet be within a foot or
two of a “ rise ” in a couple of buckets of stone.
* * » *
Water-bores at Lake Phillipson, in the Far
North of S. Aus., expose coal-beds similar to those at
Leigh’s Creek, nearly 100 miles further south. The stuff,
however, is brownish and doesn’t carry well. Leigh’s Creek
makes no headway at all.
* * * *
North Lyell half-yearly report has not been
circulated in Australia—London board, it appears,
ordered its suppression. Why do the local directors sub-
mit to such intolerable dictation? Imperfect summaries
which have been published make it clear that the
balance-sheet must be a curiosity. Hess, of London
Critic, is very severe on the show and sundry people con-
nected with it. Criticism of the same kind here would
mean that the newspaper publisher would go up for the
term of his natural life.
• * • *
Maoriland Parliament passed a drastic law last
session respecting mining companies’ calls. Directors
must pay their calls on or before the due date, or be
liable to a penalty of from £5 to £5O, and no share can be
forfeited unless this provision has been complied with.
The intention of the law is good, but it- is clumsily
drafted. It is the common practice in Australia for
directors to be the last to pay calls. They are in the
“ first know ” as to whether or not it is advisable to pay
up, and if there is any doubt they seldom pay on more
than their qualification shares. Then when circs, are
propitious for a market-move they scoop up all the for-
feited shares for less than the calls unpaid. In a recent
N.S.W. case several thousand shares on which 4d. was
unpaid were allotted to a syndicate of the directors and
their nominees for Id., and by market manipulation were
disposed of within a fortnight at a profit of over £lOOO.
This sort of trickery and robbery ought to be checked.
The defence in the Wallace Brownlow
case suggested that five whiskies, taken at intervals
during a long summer day, had affected the
beauteous one’s legs. Five whiskies ! Why, a
man is scarcely prepared to meet the 30 or 40 sur-
prise attacks per day of the Melbourne climate
with less than five glasses of a good, honest
“ whusky ” like D.C.L. After taking from five to
15 nobblers of that helpful Scottish beverage the
solicitor yanks off his best case, the politician ex-
cels himself in debate, and the merchant brings
off the deal that makes the fortune of his firm.
The Whisky of the Wise, indeed.*
The Passionist Fathers, of Marrickville,
Sydney, notify by advertisement that the Grand
Federal Art Union, which has received the
sanction of the Attorney-General, will be drawn
in May next. The Ist prize is a genuine De Dion
motor car valued at £350. Other prizes of con-
siderable value are offered in connection with the
drawing. Tickets at Is. have been distributed
throughout Australia.*
New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency
Co., Ltd., report to March 27 : —Wheat: Follow-
ing a slightly easier tendency earlier in the week
the market now has only regained its firmness, but
in instances buyers have been induced to give
slightly advanced rates on those last quoted. Prime
lines to-day can be quoted at to 3s. 4fd. per bushel,
other descriptions proportionately.*
Cecil Rhodes.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Strong, brave, resourceful, model of his race.
But I have not one tear though millions moan,
And petulant bewail him overthrown.
For Liberty has by his bier no place,
And Freedom’s soul ne’er knew him face to face.
Ambition watched with Avarice at his birth,
And they may bear him to his mother earth
And mourn with England for a little space.
He lived to multiply the millionaire,
To buttress up the gold-bug’s jewelled seat,
To make the exploiter’s path broad, smooth, and
fair,
And keep the worker at the Fatman’s feet.
Such may, God knows, be England’s mission too,
Of which —“So little done, so much to do.”
F.
From S. M. HERALD'S S’Airican war
correspondent:
One night Colonel Wing went out with a party of
Hussars and Westralians. Early next morning two
Boers were sighted, and several of the Westralians,
with a veterinary officer of the Hussars, followed
in pursuit. One of the Boers was shot, hut the other
raced on, and when the foremost of his pursuers drew up
on him the Boer turned and shot him in the arm
with a Mauser pistol. Then another Westralian gained
on him. This time he dismounted, took careful aim, and
the Australian dropped dead. The veterinary officer then
galloped alongside him, but, being quite unarmed, could
do nothing—“ I thought I might be able to pull him
off,” he afterwards told me —and the Boer again
firing brought his horse to the ground, the bullet just
grazing the officer’s leg. Only a few yards separated the
two, and the Boer had his opponent covered with his
pistol when the latter shouted, “Play the game, now;
can’t you see I’m unarmed ? ” Thereupon the pistol was
lowered, only to be raised again as another Wes-
tralian raced furiously up. He also met his end there ,
and the Boer rode off once more. A moment or two
afterwards he turned in his saddle and wounded a
second horse ; and yet another Westralian, urging his
horse forward, was struck in the stomach by a bullet
from the fearless Boer’s unerring pistol. The remainder
of the party were a long way in the rear, and the Boer,
having killed two and wounded two of the Westralians,
captured the Hussar officer (whom he allowed to
go unharmed), and wounded two horses, coolly rode off
untouched, having first possessed himself of the horses
belonging to two of those whom he had shot.
This gallant Boer, it will be observed, spared even
the life of a man who was chasing him, when
he found the latter unarmed. We shall probably
never know his name, so he will go down m
history with the chivalrous unknown Frenchman
whom a distinguished British officer met on the
field of Waterloo, and who, perceiving that the
Englishman had lost his sword arm, instead of
striking merely saluted him with his sabre as he
galloped past. Alas for Australia that the very
issue of the paper which records, so bright an act
of Boer chivalry should also print details of the
cold-blooded, cruel massacre of unarmed men by
hired brigands from our country !
Chamberlain lately confessed that even
were he to die the Empire would still go on.
Thus a Birmingham Radical paper:—
Josephus states to an admiring train
That if he died the Empire would remain.
Yes, if you die, it will survive you, Joe ;
But if you live ? That’s what we want to know.


dfg
-# I do not ask you to spend
money to test "whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’
Dance, etc. All I ask of you
is to SEND tor a FREE
Bottle and to try it I abide
by the result. A safe remedy-
approved by the Medical
Profession.
H. G, ROOT, 2S,Endsleigh
Cardens, London. N.W. •
“I'll Try It”
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOI.B AGENTS.
The Result.
CRAIG & AITKEN, N.S .W. Barber’s Supply
House. 680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BALSAM OF HOREHOUND.
ARNOLD’S
RNOLD’S
RNOLD’S
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
For Coughs and Colds.
Every Dose Effective.
. Will Cure when Others Fail.
For Pain in the Side.
Best for Influenza.
In Bronchitis and Loss of Voice.
Whooping Cough and Croup.
For Children, Safe and Sure-
RUPTURE
CURED
without
operation or pain,
Throw away
your Tru«».
no detention from work, or depend-
ence upon Trusses. The only
humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
Treatise No. io. Address:
I SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C.3., ENG.,
Cor Russell & Collins Sts. (
■ MELBOURNE.
)
NOTICE
f To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica, ,
| Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
i Limbs. i
| The Old Reliable English Remedy. *
\ PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
• Prepared by Poinguestre & Truman, of
| 71 Old Kent Hoad, London.
* Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all 1
i parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists 1
F in the Australian Colonies.
> Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
) By one application only, effectually destroys 1
. all Parasites of Head or Body. <
f soi.d in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
? N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
| LOTION, and no disappointment can occur,
l Prepared by Poingdestre & Truman,
l 71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all <
, Cliemists in the Australian Colonies. i
D -
_ A
“SANITAS”
NATURE'S
GREAT DISINFECTANT.
Non-Poisonous.
Does Not Stain Linen*
FLUID, POWDER, SOAPS, Ac.
Of ail Chemists and Stores.
i Valuable book, “HOW TO DISINFECT.”
free on application.
The “SANITAS” Co., Ltd.,
BETHNAL GREEN, LONDON.
Don’t
Be
A
Weak,
Run
Down
Man.
Ill'
inn"
*etwT-07 ij
w
i. f!
r>i
7
*-*7 i'!\
IrTfilOl-
£>
'Wj
E
As
Good
For
Women
As
For
Men.
“STITCH” in the BACK.
“ Ouch! That’s it. It catches me just as lam rising from the chair, and oh ! how it hurts ! I can’t work,
because every time I stoop lam in danger of falling down. I get so bad sometimes I can’t turn over in bed.”
“ It’s Lumbago, associated with weak nerves and muscles in your back. Put this belt on, applying the warm,
glowing current right at that spot. In a few hours you will feel a general loosening up of the strained muscles, the sore-
ness will go away, and you can twist in any position without danger. It is a never-failing remedy, and the results are
generally noticeable after a few applications.
ANOTHER SYDNEY MAN CURED.
DR. McLAUGHLIN 00., Winslow, Darling Point,
Dear Sirs,— March 12, 1902.
It is with the greatest pleasure and feeling of gratitude that I bear witness to the excellence of your Electric Belts. Some time ago I sustained a heavy
fall, and ruptured the big muscle in the back. I was in great pain, and after two weeks in bed I happened to see your advertisement in a newspaper. I got
one of your high-grade Belts, and after a week I felt very much better, and after the second week I was, and am now, as well as I was before the accident. I still
wear the Belt for two hours every evening, and feel the benefit of it. It has not only cured me in two weeks (although the doctor attending me told me it would
be months before I would get well), but has made my back very much stronger than before the accident.
I strongly advise all with pain in the back to try your Electric Belt, and I shall be very pleased to give all information personally to anyone.
I remain, Dear Sirs,
Yours gratefully,
ROBERT VERON.
When you use our Belt, then you don’t need any more medicine. The electric current
generated from it will give you all the assistance you require. If medicine had been what you
wanted, you would not need a Belt now. It don’t take the wisest man to see through this.
There is only One Electric
Belt in Australasia.
Don’t Forget.
DR. McLAUGHLIN’S
Come in and let us explain the Belt to you ; learn how easily we control the powerful current. You may test it free. If you can’t call, we
will mail you our illustrated book, post paid, and diagnosis, free If you need help, call or write. DON’T DELAY. HOURS, 9 a.m. to 9 p.m.
the dr. McLaughlin go., 85 king st., Sydney,
A Distinct Advance in Infant Feeding.
ftferglg
•aamJUrrf
'■Tcsllmqy, BlrwTn* \
•*«c «,lu,JU
aVHanbuO^
K * fla * TH« imeiir. DlmOW^
The “Allenburys” Foods provide nourishment suited to the growing digestive powers
of the Infant, and constitute an altogether distinct advance on the mischievous expedient of trying
to make the child’s stomach accomodate itself to a food essentially unsuited to its digestive powers.
Farinaceous foods of all kinds are totally unfit for infants under five or six months of age, such foods
being a potent cause of digestive troubles, rickets, and many disorders arising from mal-nutrition.
The “ Allenburys” Foods are especially valuable in hot
climates. They are in the form of powder and keep perfectly.
Pamphlet on “INFANT FEEDING” (48 pages) free, from
495, Bourke Street, Melbourne.
ALLEN & HANBURYS, Ltd., London, Eng.
MILK FOOD No. 1.
From birth to three months.
MILK FOOD No. 2.
From three to six months.
MALTED FOOD No. 3.
From six months and upwards.
THE
T™£pf
THE
‘PLUM’
p ENTLEMEN.— This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. 6d.
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Prick
/Single Razor, in strong- Leather Case, 10s 6d ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21a
\ Single Razoi, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 308.
Registered'and sent Post Free to any part of the World.
fy Please add (id. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
A
LCOHOLIC EXCESS.
DRINK AND DRUG HABITS CURED at
Patient’s own home. Can be given secretly.
Testimonials from prominent people. Write for pamphlet
or call on
THE EUCHASY CO.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
NESS CURED
Deafness is incurable till the
cause is removed. There fore Ear
Drums and other artificial aids
1 never cure. Nobody need be
deaf where the ELECTRICON is obtainable. Write to-day
mentioning this paper, and we will send valuable informa-
tion FREE. Address—
L. R. Vernpn Coy., 60-64 Hunter-st., Bydney
ROBERTS’ HOTEL, you enjoy your lunch
George and Market Sts.,
SYDNEY.
APARTMENTS:
BEDROOM (single), 3s. per DAY.
BEDROOM (double), 6s. per DAY.
Single Room, with Full Board, 8s. per
day, or £2 2s. per week.
TERMS. — The convenient
system of paying for the
room on arrival and
meals as they are had.
When you come to Roberts’ Hotel
Dining Rooms ; and you not only
enjoy it, but it does you good as
well. There is always a large and
tempting variety of excellent food on
our menu, and on Fridays there is a
special fish luncheon for those who
want it in addition to the ordinary.
The luncheon is ready at twelve
o’clock sharp —from Is. —and there
is first-class attendance. Dinner and
tea from 5.30 to 7.30 —from Is.
upwards. Silver grill at work.
How the Imperialists are making them-
selves beloved of the people of S’Africa! On
Aug. 27 1901, “ the highly-respected and much
beloved clergyman oftheDutch Reformed Church”
at Ceres, Cape Colony, was arrested and thrown
into gaol. As he did not go through the form of
appealing to the Supreme Court it is impossible
to find out what is the charge against him
(beautiful Martial Law !) but it is stated in the
South African News that “he expressed from
his pulpit the opinion that this was no time for
dancing”—in allusion to some festivity of the
Commandant. On Sept, 18th, the date of the
issue of -said newspaper, he was still in prison
untried.


CURED®
&
These Complaints can be Cured Quickly.
BY our curative system of jye cure long-
standing cases of Indigestion, Dyspepsia, Palpitation, Ner-
vousness, Sciat ca, Nerve Affections, Bladder and Kidney
Troubles, Liver Cotnpla its, Mental Impairments,
Gsieal Debility, Er.feeola I Constitutions, l-unctional Disorders,
Varicocele, and Genera) Disorders of Men. The Question of Sex
does not interfere. We treat a.iJ cure berth sexes, privately and
speedily.
m
las
W
i
m
■■ : v
/
• ■’• p*Si ‘
JACK WILLIS DECLARES.
What Electricity and Medicine does for Brain, Nerve and Muscle.
ELECTRICITY and Medicine, the judicious use of which proves a restorative agent or ££o^
is amazing the medical faculty by its cures. It has made the names a t P.. ! Qnpoialists is simrularlv successful in where disease arises
Institute famous over Australasia. It is proved Electric-Med,cation, supervised by sk.lledMagnetism is lacking, this
sraasrAsr 0, oS: sgwsssstw? "ssa 2...«... T ......«• «* >»«—•* -
cases, and continue to brighten homes and lighten suffering day by day. ___—.
JACK WILLIS’ TESTIMONIAL.
Here is a portrait of Mr. Jack Willis, a
professional pugilist, whom we treated
prior to one of his great fights. We made a victor of him. H© gratefully says
The Specialists, 192 Cleveland-street, Chippendale
Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute. March 12th, 1902.
I derived much benefit from your Electro-Medical treatment, which helped me greatly in
my training for my recent great fight with Joseph Dunn at the Gaiety Theatre, Sydney. Ihe
press at the time stated I had never before appeared in such perfect condition. I put it
down to the fact that I wore one of your Electric invigorators during my training. At the
time I never felt better or stronger in my life. ,*nv wit tto
(Signed) JACK WILilaS.
MR. BROWN’S TESTIMONY.
Mr. Willis says what Electricity and Medi-
cine does for the Muscle, Mr. Brown speaks
for the Brain and Nerve. As a professional musician, subject to intense thought-application,
he suffered from brain-fag. He says :
“ Messrs. Freeman and Wallace. Fuller’s Empire Theatre, Castlereagh-st.
“ I testify to the marvellous benefits obtained from your Electro-Medical treatment. .In my
profession I find the system becomes often-times impaired. I had consulted some leading prac-
titioners in Sydney before I saw you with no good result. Anyone suffering from prostration,
brain-fag, or general decline of the nervous system should pay a visit to the Specialists of your
“ Professional Pianist. (Signed) J. H. BROWN, August 12, 1901.
This testimonial speaks for itself. If you are ill, what more do you want than the testimony ot
a man cured ?
EVERYONE ADOPTS THE SYSTEM.
BARRISTERS, Solicitors, Commercial Men, Boxers, Jockeys, representatives of all grades
O of the muscular and brainy cl isses adapt and adopt the new system. . They all say the
‘‘Electric Invigforator,” sold by the Institute, cannot be better. There is nothing: better
than the best. As a renovator in cases of general debility, enfeebled constitutions, brain-fag,
or where the reproductive organs are injured or palsied, the powers of sensation or volition
departed, it is the surest and finest in the world.
The Curative System. Silver and Gold Invigorators.
THE curative method by which the entire body is endowed with health and strength, and by
which disease is driven out of the system, involves a course of medicines specially prepared
to be taken whilst our ELECTRIC INVICORATOR is worn round the waist. Electric applications
alone are inelfectual. Medicines assist the assimilation of the electric current. A stream of
animal magnetism is poured into the jaded nerves and system. The effect is magical. Steam
is given to the human machine. Mr. W. G. English, C.E., late Government Electrician, says
the Invigc raiors are “ electrically perfect.” There is no reason why you should pay more than
the following prices :
Copper-plated, £l. Silver-plated, £1 108- Solid Silver, £3- Solid Cold (stamped), £lO-
- AN “ INVICORATOR” WHILE AT REST FOR A FEW HOURS.
YOU WILL BECOME NEW MEN AND WOMEN IN A FEW WEEKS.
MR. J. F. BROWN WRITHS.
Medicines Packed Free from Observation.
Letters Treated Privately and Answered Punctually.
THE BEST
TREATMENT I3XT TJE3LE WORLD.
»0 your doctors always cure you? No !!! You must admit it. When a man voluntarily tells his Specialist, lam a cured man,, and thousands of others
* sav the same the means by which a man in skeleton health is made a physical giant must be a national boon It is worth trying. And there is
,ys y the possibility of a medical miracle being performed. Don’t despair. If you have a long-standing disease which brings you a vision of the gra e,
always the possibility
try the Specialists of the Institute
Electricity and medicine will cure you.
cb.edetvtia.es of
INSTITUTE.
S. Wales, Victoria, South Australia, England, and
the late Queen, says: “I entertain a high
Melbourne, and Imperial Army Medical Staff.
A Valuable Treatise,
The New Medical Work, “Clinical Experiences,” published
by the Institute, is a volume of rarest excellence and value.
Its price is only One Shilling: in Stamps. It is 500 pages from cover to cover, illustrated with 150 full-page and
half-page anatomical blocks, showing the various parts of the human anatomy. It is readable, instructive, useful.
It is a whole Library of Facts. Send for it If vou wish to be wise. It contains chapters on Love and
Marriage, Anaton y. Fevers, Ague, Snakebite and Cure, Restoring- Apparently Drowned, Invalids and Treatment,
Electricity, Fractures, Burns and Scalds, Dropsy, Rheumatism, etc., etc. It is worth a pound a pag’e to people in the
back-blocks. Send at once ; orders are closing rapidly.
IS* FREEMAN & WALLACE
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director Electro-Medical Dept.; RICHARD WALLACE, Physician-in-Chief.
Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute,
Elizabeth & Bathurst Sts., Sydney.
Confidence
Economy
Satisfaction
These three -words tell the story
why you should huy here. With
our six busy stores (Sydney,
Melbourne, Auckland, Perth,
Christchurch and Wellington)
'we are able to save you money
on anything in our line you
may want. Every taste and
every purse finds satisfaction
here.
Nellie Stewart Bracelet, with practically Invisible Joint and Catch.
Made in three sizes, in 9c. and 15c.. Gold We illustrate the middle
sizes. Prices—9c., £2 10s, £3 3s, £4 ; 15c., £3 Vs 6d, £5, £7,
No. F 6105. Solid
Silver Chatelaine
Spectacle Case,£2 5s
No. F3s62.—Massive Solid Silver
Cabinet Photo Frame, 16s 6d.
psHUSI
No. E9t6.— Solid Silver Shell Butter
Dish and Knife in Case, £1 ss.
No. 352 A.—Cut Glass and
Silver-plated Cruet, with
Spoons. 10s. 6d.
No. F67s6.—Pretty Silver-
plated Child’s Cup. 6s. 6d
No. F6lB!.—Silver-plated Toast Rack,
Six divisions. 18s. 6d.
No. FB39.—Silver-plated Butter
Dish, with Knife. 9s. 6d.
No. FSG3. —Silver-plated and Engraved
Sugar Scuttle. £1 ss.
No. F77B.—Silver-plated Clear Glass
Butter Dish. 12s. 6d.
No. 167.—18 c. Gold,
Diamond and Ruby
Ring, £2 ss.
No. 17.— 15 c. Gold
Opal and Pearl Set
Scarf Pin, £1 10s.
No. 178.—18 c. Wed-
ding Ring, £1 15s.
Others, 21s, 255, 30s,
40s, 5Cs, 60s.
No. F3021.—-9c. Gold
Pearl or Turquoise
Set Tie Clips, 14s 6d.
No. 36.—180. Gold and
5 Diamonds Engage-
ment Ring, £5 ss; Dia-
mond & Ruby, £3 10s.
No. 198A.—9c. Gold
Links, 15s 6d.
Silver ditto, 4s.
No. E 9265.— Solid Silver Shaving Brush.
12s. 6d.
No. Fl7s9.—Solid Silver Cigar
Cutter. 6s. 6d.
No. E 4182. —Silver-plated
Candlestick. 12s. 6d.
No. EBo24.—Silver-
plated
Candlestick. ]2s. 6d.
WlB.—Satin-lined and Silver-plated Trinket
Box, £1 2s 6d.
E5023.—9c. Gold Long Muff Chain, £3 15s.
n fi
e> ©
No. F 976. —15c. Gold and Pearl Set Scroll Brooch,
£ll7s. 6d.
No. F 593. —15c. Gold and Fine Pearl New Moon and
Spray Brooch, £5 10s.
No. 015.—Specially Strong 9c. Gold Bar and Opal
Heart Brooch, £1 7s. 6d.
Nr. I'4 H2.—lsc. Gold and Fine Pearl New Moon
and Spray Brooch, £3 ss.
No. 109.—The Popular Bell Brooch, 9c. Gold,
12s. 6d.
No. F2091.—9c. Gold Strong Two Bar Brooch, 14s. 6d.
No 113.—9 c. Gold and Rose Diamond Set Brooch,
18s. 6d.
4/2 GEORGE 57 SYmur Y,


How to File up the Centuries.
This is a feat best known to cricketers, and of
all cricketers probably those of Australia most
frequently perform the trick. But the best cen-
turies are those which represent years of life. For
a man or woman to become a centenarian is in
itself Nature’s own certificate of a well-spent life
no less than of a sound constitution. Of this, the
better kind of century, Australia has also had a
few notable examples, and we will hazard the
propneey that she will have yet others. Mrs.
Elizabeth Fuller, of No. 44, Ryder-street, Surry
Hills, Sydney, N.S.W., now 83 years of age, is
still hale and hearty, and, we believe, good for a
further indefinite term of life.
Anybody who lives to the age of 71, as Mrs.
Fuller oid, without knowing what it was to be
seriously ill, and then to become ill only as the
result of accident, has something substantial to
boast of. “I was7l,” says Mrs. Fuller, “ when I
lost my footing while ascending the stairs, sus-
taining a fractured arm and broken collar bone.
I became an inmate of the Sydney Hospital for
two months and was discharged as cured. My
worst trouole, however, was now about to begin.
In my fall I must have injured the kidneys, for a
dull continuous pain set in in tnat region which
gave me no rest by day or night. Obstinate
constipation and urinary difficulties were soon
added to my troubles, arising, I believe, from the
same cause. I visited the leading hospitals as an
out-patient, ana was also under treatment at my
own home by a lady doctor; but none of the
plasters, liniments, lotions, or other medicines
they gave me, proved of the least use. As time
passed the pain m my back increased so much
that the agony was intolerable, and I felt as if I
could have welcomed death. Such was my con-
dition for two years, when my daughter, Mrs. W.
Johnson, of Arden-street, Waverley, gave me
three of Mother Seigel’s Soothing Plasters, a box
of Seigel’s Operative Pills, and a bottle of Seigel’s
Curative Syrup. The plasters, used in conjunction
with the Syrup and Pills, at once reduced the
backache, and the bowels and other internal
organs, were soon Drought into proper working
order. I could eat, sleep, and get about again,
and, in three months, was as well as a woman of
my years could hope to be.”
For many years physicians were of opinion that,
when the human body had reached the age of
three score and ten, it was no longer responsive to
even the most appropriate remedies. That opinion
is now no longer held, and the case of Mrs. Fuller
again disproves it.
Franz Josef
APERIENT WATER
Is the ONLY PALATABLE NATURAL
APERIENT WATER.
Sole Agents Rocks, Tompsitt &00., Melbourne.
dfg
d
A Wonderful power is placed at your
disposal in Hypnotism—the power to control
others—to relieve disease—to make friends
•—to make money—and justify your
ambition. You may become a commanding
master of humanity. In fact, there is so much
that is wonderful to tell you about it that I have
written a book for that purpose. It has 31
illustrations.
. An>one can be a Hyrnotlst It Is merely a matter of
Snowing how All posse is the power—both men and women.
Some p*r»ons exercise a light hypnotic influence unconsciously
No doubt you have met such people. They are the kind who
•ucceed in the world with no apparent effort.
By a knowledge of Hypnotism.bad habits, nervous diseases,
bad dispositions, sleeplessness, and other afflictions may be
cured-often in a single treatment Backward or ungovernable
children show marvellous improvement under hypnotic
treatment at the hands of their parents or others.
1 have taught thousands of hypnotists in America. Hun*
dreds o' delighted students in Australis already 1 reach
them through my book The system is very simp]*. There
is no reason why you should not become as good a Hypno-
tist as I am. Satisfaction guaranteed.
Send address in full, together with three stamps. Toil
trill then receive “The Key to Hypnotil®.* # posted U»
s plain cover. Absolutely Free.
PRorcsson o. c. barrirotoh,
America's Oreeteet Hyveetlst,
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerlne fits cease. It has cared
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when
every other remedy had failed. Price 4/6 and 11/.
Thousands of Testimonials.
OF ALL CHEMISTS, STORES, ETC.
WHOLESALE AGENTS'
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. NICHOLL, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
25 HIGH STREET, BELFAST, IRELAND.
Missing Friends.
JOHN* HEARNSNIP, late of Chorley
Road Farm, Whittle -le - Woods, near
Chorley, Lancashire, left Sydney for Westralia
12 years ago. Father anxious to hear from you.
At m Please write to daughter ADA at once.
.u. A. j n g rea t trouble. Address —
MRS. B. LONCBOTTOM,
National-Street, Flood’s Estate,
Leichhardt, Sydney.
amusements.
Lyceum theatre, Sydney.
Lessee Mr. Wm. Anderson.
Sub Lessee .. .. Bland Holt.
EVERY EVENING, EVERY EVENING,
BLAND HOLT’S
Great Spectacular Marine Novelty,
THE SPAN OF LIFE.
POPULAR PRICES —35,, 25., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
QENTENARY H A L L.
Wednesday, April 9,
Professional debit t of
MISS SYLVIA BLACK&Tutf
THE CHARMING CONTRALTO.
Prices, 55., 35., 25., and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
JOHN LAURE, Manager.
FITZGERALD BROS.’
NEW CIRCUS AND MENAGERIE.
THE GREATEST AMUSEMENT ENTERPRISE
TRAVELLING AUSTRALASIA.
Location— OLD BENEVOLENT SOCIETY’S GROUNDS,
Opp. REDFERN RAILWAY STAI lON.
PATRONISED BY HIGHLY DELIGHTED
and
ENTHUSIASTIC ASSEMBLAGES at EVERY PER-
FORMANCE.
Clean, New White Tenting Specia'ly Constructed for the
SYDNEY SEASON.
Heaps of Novelties and Sensations.
PRICES—4s., 35., 25., and ONE SHIT,LING. Children
half-price to all parts except the Pit.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s, George-streot.
QRAND FEDERAL ART UNION
(BY PERMISSION)
In Aid of &t. Brigid’s Church and School,
MarrickviHe, Sydney.
Drawn 24th May, 1902.
Ist PRIZE :
Genuine De Dion Motor Car
(VALUED, £350).
Other Prizes including Oil Paintings, Sewing Machine,
Bicycle, Suite of Furniture, &c.
The Motor Car is on exhibition and has been entered
for competition at the Easter Carnival.
TICKETS, Is. Each. Sold throughout the States.
I V O L I THEATRE, S Y D N E Y.
Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mu. Harry Rickards
First Appearance o the following Great Vaudeville Stars.
LYDIA YEAM ANS-TITUS, the Oelebr.i teil Travesty Queen.
THE JACKSON FAMILY, the Famous Musicians.
DAN CONROY.
GEO. B. AL XANDER.
FRED. DAVYS.
CASSELLI SISTERS.
THE LENTONS.
Prices—2/6, 2/-, 1/6, 1/-, 6d.
PROF. WKIGLEY.
FRED. BLUETT.
GIANT MARIONETTES.
WESTON & YOST.
SA\I HOLDSWORTH.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
MATINEES. SATURDAY & EASTER MONDAY.
RICKARDS’ NEW OPERA HOUSE,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mr. HARRY RICKARDS.
EVERY EVENING, at 8 p.m.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS at 2.30 p.m.
DERENDA & BREEN,
The Greatest Comic Jugglers in the World.
MADAME LOTTY, THE PERMANS,
Complete and Enthusiastic Success of the Great
American Noveltv,
NET B A I. L.
Prices—2s. 6d., 25., Is., and 6d. Plan at Allan’s.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee Mr. Bland Holt.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. William Anderson.
Bus. Manager, James Hendv. Treas., Julius Grant.
THIRD WEEK of
THE NIGHT BIRDS OF LONDON,
a Bright Melodrama of Thrilling Interest Interpreted by
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION, headed by Miss EUGENIE DUGGAN.
Prices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager : Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Gborse Tallis. Treas., E. J. Tait.
EVERY EVENING. Bth WEEK of
THE RUNAWAY GIRL,
The Jolliest Musical Play Ever Written.
Interpreted by full strength of the
ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
Prices as Usual. IS® Box Plan at Allan’s.
DRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Under the Direction of .. Mr. Robt. Brough.
Representative Mr. Allan Hamilton.
FAREWELL to Melb. of MR. and MRS. BROUCH,
Prior to their retirement from the Australasian stage.
FRIDAY, APRIL 4, LAST NIGHT of
THE A. HA.ZOKTS.
SAT., APRIL 5, First Production in Melbourne of SWEET
AND TWENTY, preceded by “ IN HONOR BOUND.”
Prices, 55., 3s. & Is. Early doors to Stalls and Amphitheatre
Is. extra. Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’and The Grand.
DIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees .. .. Messrs. Williamson, Lee & Rial.
UNDER THE DIRECTION of EDWIN GEAOH.
GEORGE WILLOUGHBY
and his
LONDON COMEDY COMPANY in
THE WRONG MR. WRIGHT.
Prices, People and Play, Popular, 35., 2s. Is.
A. COWAN, Acting Manager.
TP OWN HALL, MELBOURNE.
B Under the Direction of Mr. J. C, Williamson.
THE MUSICAL EVENT of the YEAR 1902.
THE HOMECOMING of AMY CASTLES
The Young Australian Soprano, for a series of
20 Concerts, of which onlv 3 can be given in Melbourne.
TUESDAY, APRIL 8. ‘ THURSDAY, APRIL 10.
SATURDAY, APRIL 12.
An artistic Combination of Rare Excellence has been
secured to assist Miss Castles.
Box Plan at Allan’s. GEORGE TALLIS, Bus. Manager.
fgd
A NICE PRESENT.
The New Combination PIN-
CUSHION, THIMBLE & REEL
HOLDER, nickel plated, plush
top. Clamps on to any table
by means of a spring. Price,
only 2s. ; post free.
Star Novelty Company,
229-231 Collins-st.,
Melbourne.
LADIES
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
“Most of the new winter bodices affect some
description of hip basque coats, and out-door
jackets are long and tight fitting with basques,
pocket-flaps, and a natural affinity for boat-shaped
hats or tri-corner toques. Big, handsome Blanche
Wallace, as Lady Coodle in ‘ The Runaway Girl,’
is a moving manifestation of the dress spirit of the
moment.
“ Toorak’s boudoirs—those in use just now—
reek of flea-killing (formalin).lozenges. These are
sewn in the silk cushions, padded into the manicure
table-covers and stitched into the silk hangings.
They are no longer left about, as they used to be,
since greedy maids chewed them up, and were in
great depression of soul for many days following.
Baths and lozenges are the recognised means of
warding off the spirited little plague-germ. The
Christian Scientists arm themselves with Faith
tabloids, which have the advantage of possessing
no pronounced smell.
“ Melba’s old school-chums are girding up their
loins for a palm-strewing reception. These are
the old and well-seasoned girls of the Presbyterian
Ladies’ College. At a preliminary meeting, the
other day, only about eight rallied to the clarion
call, and but little progress was reported. The
fact is many are married and have scattered to the
ends of the earth. The roll-call of Melba’s time
must be an interesting one, and the whereabouts
of so many of the State’s dowered daughters of so
long ago—nearly 30 years ago—would supply some
interesting matter.
“Wallace Brownlow's compensation case has
taught us something re the perpetual crease down
the centre which distinguishes the trousers of the
stylish few from the mere pants of mankind in
general. In a frank and breezy way, plaintiff
Brownlow told the Court that it is his rule to fold
his trousers neatly and place them between the
mat Presses ere retiring to bed to sleep upon them.
Also, he puts his vest under his pillow. Thus, it
appears, are the garments pressed into a delusive
newness with each returning day. To all intents
and purposes they have been re-tailored by the
wily wearer. Considering that girls in their fresh
young innocence have hitherto accepted the
creased leg-gear and the crinkleless waistcoat as
evidences of a satisfactory banking-account, the
Brownlow confession will do a lot of good. Every-
body knew, of course, that men were deceivers
ever, but their clothes, at least, got credit for
being just as new as they looked. Henceforward
the Sex will put no faith in the shapely trousers
of uncertain age. The man who come 3 to woo
with longitudinal lines extending from knee to
instep will merely excite maiden speculations as
to which partner in the firm would be expected to
dream on the garments, and whether he would
invariably remove his keys and things from the
pockets when he came home late.
“ They are making progress in golf this side of
the world. A practice obtains on the most
fashionable links of men-players carrying flasks
furnished for themselves and fair partners on the
rounds. An alien playing a match, the other
day, was shocked out of her seven senses when
she was presented with a flask and invited to help
herself. She waxed highly irate, and made in-
quiries afterwards, only to learn that this was the
polite practice of the male golfer. In matches
particularly, his fair partner or opponent is always
asked to have a nip, whether she be known as a
nipper or otherwise.
“Miss Louie Morrell had bad luck with her
concert, which she worked-up without committee
or any kind of help. She arranged a good pro-
gramme, but the affair fell on Wednesday night
between other big sing-song shows, and, to make
matters worse, rain fell in a deluge, so that Miss M.
farewelled to a thin audience, and wasted her sar-
torial magnificence on a crowd that thought more
of the music than of the upholstering of the
singers. Whatever one may say of the in-
trepid Louie’s vocal soarings, all must admit the
perfect taste of her dressing, with her new Ameri-
can figure, her straight lines, andjier showy, latest-
London style.
“Melb. Philharmonic, rounded T 853, will attain
its jubilee next year. May we all be as full of go,
at the age of 49, as the Society showed itself by
its ‘ Elijah ’ performance on Good Friday night.
Big, attentive, dowdy audience, conscientious
chorus, competent soloists, steady-going con-
ductor, sympathetic organist, and Hattenbach’s
’cello obligato, were features of a praiseworthy
recital. This time, ‘ Elijah’s ’ music fell to Horace
Stevens. Years ago when the Philharmonic
caught Mdine. Patey (touring Australia), and
billed her as the star of its big ‘ Elijah ’ concert
in the Exhibition Building, Master Stevens, then
Melbourne’s crack chorister, sang the soprano part,
written by Mendelssohn for ‘the Youth.’ He
sang it beautifully, too ; as a choir-boy we haven’t
heard his like since. This time Minnie Waugh
included ‘ the Youth ’ with the rest of the soprano
music. Miss Waugh’s voice seems too light and
frivolous for oratorio, though as for that,
Emilie Stevens (Horace’s sister) hasn’t a
powerful voice either, yet she interprets
the pathos of words and music on quiet, non-
hysterical lines. But then the Stevens are the sort
of slight, sad-faced, black-haired people with lots
of fire and fervor always in stock if they choose to
let it peep out. James Wood, too, gets a grip on
oratorio music, though he's fair and trim and has
something hard in his Scotch intonation; but just
because he is Scotch, he warms up unconsciously,
when Old Testament apostrophes fall to his share.
Misses White and Kenyon, who sang minor parts
nicely, had a busy time climbing between solo
positions in front of the platform, to their places
at the rear as leaders of the sopranos and alto 3,
respectively. Fancy jumping heavily from form
to form while all one’s colleagues are proclaiming
‘ Not in the Earthquake (bump), not in the Storm
(bang), not in the Wind (crash), but in the small
still voice, He came ’ (form upset).
“ Bertie Zelman, son of the well-known Alberto,
is engaged, ’tis said, to Maud Harrington (in
real life, Miss Jenkins), who did Aladdin’s Prin-
cess, and was also successful as a melodious,
deoorative singer in ‘Trovatore,’ and other
operas produced by Musgrove. The bridegroom-
elect, a clever violinist, said by his admirers to be
a bit of a genius, though lacking in application,
has been conducting the ‘ Sweet Nell ’ music in
Melbourne. He’s a popular, genial young thing,
with only one crumpled leaf in his bed of roses—
his mother’s nerves have never regained tone sinoe
a great shock in comparatively early life.
“On ‘Sweet Nell’s’ last night in Melbourne
farewellers rolled up in such force that money had
to be turned away. Nellie Stewart, presented
with wicker jardiniere of flowers and canary in
cage, was in good voice, and seemed less troubled
than she is sometimes by that husky little cough.
“Among those looking their last pro term, on
the Gwynne play were-Rupert Clarke, in the
manager’s box with Mrs. Norman Menzies and
hubby. Dorothy Vane, as she was, has revelled
in Nell GWynne’s ‘orl-right’ orange-girl ‘side.’
She herself, when on the boards, had a stock of
quaint, comical looks, intonations, and man-
nerisms. Mrs. Lawson, seated as usual in the
second row of the stalls, glued all eyes to her
head-garniture. Round her thick, utilitarian,
brown hair, packed in a massive bun, low on her
neck, twined a drooping pink wreath with blue
bow-and-ends at the side. The sort of delicate,
nimini-pimini garland, affected of yore by owners
of chiselled, Book-of-Beauty profiles. A widowed
senator and his fiancee, fragile almost to a fault,
provided staring-points for D.C. inmates.
“ The two persons of the crowded Bijou audience
on Saturday night who commanded the most
attention were Mrs. Henry Butler and Mrs. J.
Sandes facing each other from opposite boxes.
The pair presented a study in contrasts. The
chiffon-merchant’s wife was chiffoned up to the
ears ; an immense ruffle formed a neck-wall, while
glimpses of blue and sparkling gems Were gathered
from the much-built-up bodice. The lady looked
large and lovely, her massive fair hair being
crimped and coiffured to a rich degree. Four
very dark-featured members of the box party left
Mrs. Butler in a pronounced blonde relief.
Opposite, Mrs. Sandes sat in stern statuesque
repose. She wore no superfluous chiffons —there
wasn’t an unnecessary or superabundant stitch in
the low-cut bodice—no necklets, no gew-gaws. It
was a straight out-and-out decollete challenge.
•‘Also prominent in the ‘Why Smith Left
Home’ audience was a wine-merchant’s wife re-
cently escaped from whalebone bondage, and
showing an ample figure in quite the most corus-
cating, jetted gown of the gathering. Beside
these well-dowered dames, small-made girls, how-
ever smart and chic, were overshadowed and set
at nought. Even a St. Hilda belle, whose sunny
locks, to quote Avon’s bard, ‘ hang on her temples
like a golden fleece,’ failed to wake up any Jasons,
or to bring any opera-glasses a second time in
quest of her.
‘•Roxy Barton, masquerading as a she-detec-
tive, wears the frocks of the farce. Her first is a
wine-colored voile of a poetical swing. About the
tricky and bust-high zouave there are admirable
additions of some fine silken texture with a thread
of gold in it. The accompanying hat is one of
white felt, the base for a white sea-gull, and a twist
of black silk. More black silk is so much filling
for the turned-up back rim. A second frock is a
sweet mixture of sky tints, and repeats the
poetical character of the first. But the third is
the dazzler. It repeats the tones —pink, orange,
red —of an Italian sunset. The foundation is
orange silk with surprise-packet opening revealing
a pink-and-red glow in intervals round the foot of
the undulating skirt. The bodice is built up with
the effect of a color-scheme; nothing is pro-
nounced ; the sunset is merely suggested. The
upstairs structure is another mass—a charming
mass—of pink and orange. Roxy looks dainty all
through, and glides over the stage in quite ‘ Tgh
Sassiety ’ style. Hope Mayne has no frocks of
note, either when she comes on as herself m the
first act, or masquerades as her own maid in the
other two. A rose-pink gamp does active service
in the last act to little purpose. The smart world,
and afterwards the shop world, have done the
rose gamp to a plaguey death in Melbourne. Miss
Millie Ascoli, who does a clever dance, is a dupli-
cate of Rose Musgrove—only more chic and
chinny.
“There’s a feeling of unrest among good
Presbyterians just now, owing to the Kirk’s oppo-
sition to the claims of a shepherd or ex-shepherd
for his superannuation allowance. It’s not the
mere ‘bawbees,’ however, that is troubling the
‘ unco guid ’ this time, but the fact that the Kirk’s
attitude is to be defended by a ‘ Papist ’ barrister.
“At the Women Writers’ Club preliminary
meeting, the other day, a suggestion was made by
a skittish young scribbler that men visitors should
be permitted the entrie. There was a Diogenes
veto on this proposal, but to the credit of the
oldest spinster present it must be made known
that she said, ‘ The men should be encouraged.’
“ I witnessed a touching little two-act comedy
on Port Melbourne railway pier recently. Went
down to see a friend off. The departure of the
boat was delayed for a couple of hours, but a big
mailship was swinging out, and on her deck stood
a large, weighty citizen, the tears coursing each
other down his cheeks, and dolour sitting upon
his immense countenance as upon a pedestal. He
was shaking a handkerchief at his handsome young
wife, and crying with all a boy’s shamelessness.
The young wife s.it upon a small platform on tne
pier, shaking her tiny handkerchief at the passing
ship, and making desultory dabs at her eyes to
lend an air of verisimilitude to her woe, the real
tears not being visible from the boat. The young
man who sat near her, evidently a relative who
had been entrusted with her during her husband’s
absence, sought to comfort her, in this the hour of
her great trial, by holding her hand. Went again
an hour and a-half later, and the poor little wife
was still sitting on the platform, and still being
comforted. The young man had hold of the same
hand. Her eyes were now quite dry, and her
conversation animated. Meanwhile, the ship that
bore the large husband and his grief had passed
down below the horizon. Perhaps the large
husband was also holding somebody’s hand.
“One at least of the Melbourne Women’s
Hospital committee dames is no respecter
of persons. She enjoys taking the starch
out of the stiffest ‘society person’ on occa-
sion, just as she does making a hospital-patient
wince under cross-examination. She and another
lady were once fellow-members of a public ball
committee. The Governor was expected in 10
minutes, and the holy of holies where lie was to
be fed and wined was not ready. The secretary
—a mere man—already in despair, learnt all about
himself from the other lady aforesaid. He had
‘disgracefully mismanaged things. Why, even
the wine had not been decanted. It was positively
scandalous.’ Then up spoke the committee lady :
* Why don’t you tell the woman to put the wine
in the decanters herself ? ’ she said. ‘She’s been
a barmaid in her time, and knows how to do it.’
Tableau !
“A certain Victorian paterfamilias is deserving
of sympathy—first, because he has five daughters ;
secondly, because he has failed to marry them off
to men of high degree and rent-rolls. Some years
ago, Pa used to cater for every eligible male visitor
to the State with the finest winged and finny crea-
tures, and afford them fairy-lamp-lighted drawing-
room opportunities of meeting the five. But none
of the eligibles remained to pay addresses. After
a time, the girls began to marry—the eldest fairly
well (but disappointingly for the pater), the second
just middlingly; the third, after a long engage-
ment, is also wedded, and it is now understood
that the father will let the remaining three go at
an alarming sacrifice. They are on the bar-
gain-counter, in fact—no unreasonable offer
refused. Well, anyhow, he is more fortunate
than the horrid M.L. father of six grown-up mar-
ried daughters. When this parent would come
down to breakfast, and find the sextette waiting
for him, he would regularly pause at the door,
assume an astonished look, and exclaim, ‘ What!
are you all here yet ? ‘
Yours affectionately,
AKENHI.
Federal Home Secretary, W. J. Lyne,
reaches his 58th year to-morrow, Sunday, and
on same day Brewer Edwin Smith, probably
S. A.’s most popular man at tlie present moment,
will complete his 71st year. Old George „Coppin
will be 83 on Tuesday (April 8).
How the Jingoes must curse the ventila-
tion of the Morant incident! It has started every-
body telling things. For instance, Mr. J. F.
Thomas, who acted as counsel for Morant, Hand-
cock, and Witton on their trial, gives, in a letter,
his statement of the case :
The evidence distinctly shows that their superior officer,
Captain Hunt, formerly a Hussar officer, gave his junior
officers and his sergeants orders that, after a train-wreck-
ing episode, in which an officer and a number of men were
killed, near Pietersburg, they were to take no prisoners.
Hunt was soon afterwards killed himself, and Lieutenant
Morant, his personal friend for years, succeeded to the
command of the detachment. Hunt’s body was badly
maltreated by the Boers. Morant swore vengeance, and
swore to carry out Hunt’s orders.
So it was not a question of the Boers being dressed
in kharki, or not being dressed in kharki, or of
“white-flag treachery, ” or any other pretence of
that sort —but simply and absolutely a “no-
quarter ” warfare (there is no allegation, mind
you, that the Boers did not give quarter), with, as
its pretext, a quite justifiable and usual act of
war—the wrecking of a military train. Mr. J. F.
Thomas speaks further, and lets a very big cat
out of the bag indeed :
It was proved that in other cases exactly the same
procedure was adopted and approved of by other officers.
See, then, the secret of the stubborn Boer resis-
tance —the reluctance to surrender to an enemy
who kills his prisoners, if not invariably or
usually, at any rate so often as to lead to a plea
of “justification by custom ” when an offender is
put on trial.


Discovered by Christopher Mudd, F.L.S., F.R.G.S., M.B.Ph.S., London, Botanist to the King of
England during His Majesty’s Indian Tour.
Eczema OLEAG
Cures this terrible itching complaint.
Not a grease. Does not stain the linen.
Full directions each jar. Jars, 4/6 ; post, 4/10
Used in the Melbourne Homoeopathic
Hospital with success.
ANTHOSsHAIR
Not a Grease, purely Botanical.
Written testimony from well-known medical men.
One bottle in daily use lasts about 4 months.
“Anihos” prevents Hair falling out, Dandruff,
and Irritation. Bottles, 2/6 ; posted, 3/3.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL CHEMISTS AND
Melbourne : Foy & Gibson and all Chemists.
Sydney: Pattinson & Co. (all branches).
Park & Son, 1,56 Pitt Street.;
Depot: M. H. HORWITZ, 34 Pitt Street.
New Zealand: C. L. Best, Ponsonby, Auckland.
Adelaide: Harris & Kemp, Arcade.
Brisbane: Taylor & Colledge Ltd.
Perth: Foy & Gibson.
Colonial Representative: Fred. J. E. Phillips, 317 Collins Street, Kelbonrne.
WOOL. PRODUCE. GRAIN.
•., * - m
The New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Coy., Ltd., SYDNEY,
A.CT AK.S SBLLI3NTC3- BROKERS OKTLY.
Consignors are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of this Company.
WOOL
COMMISSION FOR SELLING THREE-QUARTERS (f) PER CENT.
WAREHOUSING
'(lncluding Receiving into Store, Fire Insurance,
Weighing, Lotting, Repacking, Sample Bales,
Advertising, Cataloguing, etc.) on Wool real-
ising over SIXPENCE per lb. the charges
■ will be 3s. 9d. per Bale.
On Wools realising SIXPENCE and over Four-
pence per lb : 2s. 6d. per Bale.
On Wools realising FOURPENCE per lb. and
, under ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Is. 6d. per Bale.
Perfect System of Weighing 1 . Way Bills sent on Application.
PRODUCE
SALES of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, eta, HELD WEEKLY.
WHEAT.
Every inducement is offered growers to consign their grain for realisation by the Company
Ample accommodation is provided. Three months free storage is allowed. Circulars are sent when
desired giving oost of railage and full particulars as to Charges, Advances, eto., eta
AGENTS FOB, McDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIF.
VINOLIA SHAVING S(MP is not the
same as soap prepared for ordinary toilet
use, and is made specially and solely for
Shaving Delicate, Sensitive, Irritable Skins
only. It cannot harm the skin, and yields
a most soothing, lasting, abundant lather,
which does not cause blotches under the chin.
sticks and flat cakes.
Please mention this paper when ordering.
fgdf
A BEAUTIFUL SOLID COLD RING SET WITH A CENUINE CARNET NO MONEY WANTED
3^^S^^HSsaKfe^fsS:Ssi#3
to^rou' 1 £^Xl'o*kl^
««*< W«ta ke a,lrUK.
SUPPLY 00., 38 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W. Dept. b.a
Please mention this paper when ordering.
J. BARTRAM & SON,
34 & 36 Market Street, Sydney
(Corner of
Clarence Street)
19. 21. 23 King Street, Melbourne,
SOLE AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES . . .
The ENGLISH DE LAVAL STEAM TURBINE CO. LTD., Leeds.
Makers of Steam Turbines, Turbine Dynamos, Turbine Rumps, Turbine Fans.
(Over 80,000 Horse-power in use.)
Messrs. GREENWOOD & BATLEY LTD., Albion Works, Leeds.
Machine Tool Manufacturers and Electrical Engineers, Dynamos, Motors, Pumps, etc.
Messrs. CONNOLLY BROS. LTD,, Manchester.
——■— i«ii Insulated Cables, Wires, Tapes, eto.
nUR SELECTIONS
.... OP ....
WORSTEDS,
TWEEDS,
SERGES,
OVERCOATINGS AND
COSTUME CLOTHS,
FOR ....
AUTUMN and WINTER
Are now arriving' by each incoming Mail Steamer*
Patterns and Self-Measure Charts Post Free.
David Braham & Go.,
Tailors and Costume Makers,
73 and 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
dfg
ƒgd
Given
away,
This Month,
to advertise
our
OSTRICH
TIPS.
2/6
The Bunch,
post free.
3 Black or Cream
Tips with Osp r eys.
Write To-day. Send Postal Notes.
MILKER'S FEATHER SHOP,
Comer Bourke & Swanston sts., Melbourne
MEDICATOR.
FOR THE TREATMENT OF
Catarrh, Hay Fever,
Bronchitis, Influenza,
Catarrhal Deafhess, &c.
dedicator, with corrvplele treat-
ment, only 10s. post free.
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY,
229. 231 Collins St. Mflb.
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that, reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending- stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Btreet, Sydney
Sending, mention this paper.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored In
Four Weeks by the use of
R * CORO'S
£S S£U cE of F £•
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Ricord's Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 128. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope.
Agents for Australasia — PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen Bt.,
Melbourne ; Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
Australian Drug Co., Ltd., O’Connell St., Sydney. All
Chemists, or Box 166, Q.P.O.
CEE
DEAF
T
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Arethesame
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free. 0
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St,., Melbourne.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
rHLORODVNE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c -» hears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS o!
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
"If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodynk, 1 never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
T)EAR SIR, —I have been cured of Weakness and De
bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr. ROBERT
E« PARKHURST, Pitt-street, Sydney.
BLAIR’S
GOUT $ RHEUMATIC
FXIiXiS-
The Great English Remedy for
GOUT, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO & NEURALGIA.
The acute pain is quickly relieved and cured in a
few days by this celebrated Medicine.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, and sold at Is. l£d. and 2s. 9d.
per box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
“Don’t shout”
I hear you. I can hear now
~s well as anybody.
"‘How?’ Oh. some-
thing new —The Wilson.
Common-sense Har-\
Drum. I’ve a pair in my
ears now. you can’t see them
—they’re invisible. I wouldn’t
know I had them in myself,
only that I hear all right."
The Wilson Bar-Drum ts
really a substitute for the
yvorking parts of the
natural ear. Has no
wire. Invisible, easy to ad
just, comfortable Totally
different from any other de-
: vice Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request
■». CHAfilHth, 229-231 Collins. M., Help.
gfd
fg
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS*
df
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole Agents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English
American and made to order
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, <fec.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, <Sec.
DEN YE R BROS.. Surgical Instrument Makers
281 GEORGE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
,
■
m
,V .
The “Quaker” Turkish
& Vapor Bath Cabinet.
All who suffer from Rheumatism,
Liver, Kidney or Bladder troubles.
Neuralgia, Eczema, Night Sweats,
&c., should have one of these
Cabinets. Price 30/-
Head and Face Steamer, 4-/-
Can he forwarded to any address.
>l. CHALMERS, Agent,
229 Collins St., Melbourna
gdf
A Wonderful power Is placed at your disposal in Hypnotism
—the power to control others—to relieve disease— to make
friends—to make money—and gratify your ambition. You may
beoome a commanding master of humanity. In fact, there is
00 much that is wonderful to tell you about it that I have
written a book, for that purpose.
By a knowledge of Hypnotism, bad
habits, nervous diseases, bad disposi-
tions. sleeplessness and other afflictions
m y b*cured—often inasingle treat-
ment Backward or ungovernable
children show marvellous improve-
ment under hypnotic treatment at the
hauls of th ir parents or others.
I have taught thousands of hypno-
tists in America. Hundreds of de-
lighted students in Australia already.
I reach them through my book. The
system is very simple. There is no
re;ison why you should not become
as good a Hypnotist as I am.
Satisfaction guaranteed.
Send address in full. You will then
receive the “ KEY TO HYPNOTISM. ”
posted in a plain cover. Absolutely
gdfg
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
THE GREATEST HYPNOTIST OF THE CENTURY,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Dr. LANGSTON’S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
A Tested and Infallible Remedy,
Within the reach of all, can be given SECRETLY.
NO FAILURES. CURES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Home Treatment without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections. Call or write for treatise, posted,
two stamps. Prepared only at the Laboratory of
SURGEON LANGSTON
W M.R.C.S. Eng,,
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
NASAL POLYPUS"
and Similar Growths in the Nasal
and Post-Nasal Passages . . .
CURED WITHOUT OPERATION.
Hundreds of cases successfully treated. Write for
particulars to . . .
NEWHAM WATERWORTH,
Edward-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
ASTH MA CURE
GRIMM'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
For Asthmatic people who suffer from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault’s Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
j GRfMAULT A Co., Faria. Sold by all Chemiats.


“ APENTA ”
Natural Aperient Water is the Best Eiiminant.
“An ideal purgative ” —The Practitioner.
THE SAFEST AND MOST RELIABLE
HOUSEHOLD APERIENT.
GIVES IMMEDIATE RELIEF.
Perhaps the most humorous epitaph yet
produced in Australia was upon a tombstone in
the old Devonshire-street (Sydney) cemetery. It
was to the memory of So-and-so, “newspaper
proprietor,” and wound up with—“ Of such is the
Kingdom of Heaven.”
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
TTTin rA-MOXJS REMEDY
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken tin's medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is inva ua e, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain. . __— r ____ _
BEWARE OF" COUGHS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RUL9.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—l am writing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
niycase. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that-1 heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
1 J. BLAIR.
Weot.minster J RE.. T-ondon.
{severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS' CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cine for bronchitis or colds of any 60rt.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Victoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured hy One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE GOLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
Llenwellyn,
“ Katunga, Vio.
“Mr. Hearne.—
“Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of your-Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very had coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to my mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER.”
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“ Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night's rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as direoted, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months —always went in the
omnibus —as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.*
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows:—“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis In November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has begn
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Tears’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir. —My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure. —I remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Five Tears’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir, —Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. I am more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without it.
I remain, yours respectfully',
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Tears’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“ Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well. —Yours sincerely.
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney."
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS’ CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes :—“After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883— 15 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.”
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states:—“l
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma."
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist,. Geelong, Victoria.
bramoh depot offlce i No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 6d, -LtirgC, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists 3Jld Medicine Vendors. Porwa/rded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally .
DA.PTO
(LIMITED).
llla,wa,rra,), near SXDIMEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
m ii ■ ,
iiss*
WmswM
wmm l
r ': :
avl h&J&Ssfi**!' "k.
M
®S
MAKERS 07
“ S. Co, of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
“ ILLAWARRA”
• • Bit AND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
urchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to P. S. Morse, Manager, Th Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.
“ Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical Record.
“‘Benger’s Food’
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medical Record.
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
For Infants, Invalids, and the Aged. Delicious, Nutritive, and rigestibie.
Bender’s Food is sold by Chemists, &c., Everywhere.
Extracts from Private
Letters.
“Mylast little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult
fj> find. My wife sounds
the praise of ‘ Benger’s
Food’ everywhere.”
“If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.
“ Safety Valve ” : Re, Victorian locomotives
“lagging ” burning. The lagging is about the
best .material to burn, that could be got—pine or
kauri, cut in pieces like cork staves and put
around the boiler lengthwise. On the outside is
a casing of thin sheet iron, except underneath,
which is left open to give the lagging a good
chance to burn well. Cases of burnt “lagging”
are so common that the department issued a
circular to the engineers some time ago stating
that they must not put cold water on the boilers
to quench the fires but must get hot water from
the boiler through the injector.
The printer again. From Sydney D.T. :
Sir,—ln a very few months hence we shall be
having the first anniversary of the lamented
President’s death, and the beautiful hymn,
“ Nearer by God to thee ” etc.
The Englishwoman (Kate Jewel) who
married the S’African savage Lobengula has sued
,« ‘he pounds
of adultery and cruelty. Lo had striven to remove
the color barrier by making her black with bruises;
h^ d al f J , sfcabbed , her with an assegai : finally
iofffi
no more that she mjrU here erpeoted and »
decision was adjourned pending some question ot
domicile The last straw in this business is the
the time. She married a bloated black African
who was supposed to be th© son of a l£ing, but
£ alleged that he wasn’t the real
Lo Ben at all, but a low nigger who had borrowed
the name. The real Lo B. might have flogged
her even harder than the substitute, but at least
the aroma of royalty, as well as that of beer and
grease, hung about him.


Pleasant to the palate, pleasant in action,
and delightfully exhilarating and refreshing
in its effects—these are the qualities which
have earned wide-spread popularity tor
.o.
BE
i
“NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.”
Acts Gently but Surely on the
KIDNEYS, LIVER AND BOWELS
Cleanses the System Effectually,
Dispels Colds, Headaches and Fevers, and
PERMANENTLY OVERCOMES
HABITUAL CONSTIPATION
and all kindred complaints, speedily restoring health,
appetite, energy and good spirits.
Ask for CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS and look for the Name
and Trade Mark of the
CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP COMPANY,
31 & 32 SNOW HILL, LONDON.
Australian Branch—7 Barrack Street, Sydney.
Of all leading Chemists, *
ĝd
m
m. ■ ■
mm
:■ I
m
mm^mmmmm.
m. -
mmmm.
mm
m
«
■
fgd
My Uncle’s Fortune—a Tale of
Loot.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In ’56 certain Chinese seamen, wanted on a charge
of piracy, were arrested by the authorities of their
own nation on board the lorcha Arrow, trading in
Chinese waters under the Britisli flag. Where-
upon the Lion—already annoyed by restrictions
on the opium trade —felt as if some person of
inferior fighting capacity had trodden on his tail,
and sternly demanded an indemnity, fixed by
himself on no penurious scale. So in Dec., ’57,
the British troops, under Sir Michael Seymour
and Sir Charles Straubenzee, took the Treaty
Port of Canton by assault, thus avenging the
insulted flag, placing the bailiff in possession, and
establishing the opium-trade on a much more
satisfactory basis. These are matters of history,
falling, with other deeds that won the Empire,
under the jurisdiction of Nemesis. I have only to
deal with an episode of the war—an adventure
which befel a relative of my own—a soldier who,
during twenty-one years’ service, never disgraced
the inexpensive and uncomfortable uniform of his
regiment by flight, except, of course, when the
panic was so general that a man would soon be
out of the world if he allowed himself to be out of
the fashion.
The Ist and 2nd companies of H.B.M. 59th In-
fantry had been quartered in Canton, on a friendly
footing, for some months previous to the Arrow
affair, but had been withdrawn before the com-
mencement of hostilities, to effect a junction with
their regiment and some other tioops at Hong-
kong, where the force concentrated for the attack
on Canton. My uncle Barney, being a full private
in No. 1 company, had thus some knowledge of
the topography and resources of the city before
its capture.
The improvement in arms and uniform which
followed the Crimean War had not yet reached
the gallant 59th. The fact was that the Quarter-
master-m-Chief, Viscount Pigott, had issued the
required order, but, owing to an unfortunate
illegibility in his figures, the 37th were now being
supplied with double allowance of the improved
toggery and tools, whilst the 59th still went as in
the days of Waterloo.
After contributing more or less to the success of
the assault on Canton, my uncle found himself
wiping the slag and soot out of his musket, and
dropped his last cartridge down the capacious
barrel, whilst he quietly dodged away through the
tortuous streets towards a place he wotted of.
Like the poet, he knew a bank, and, like the
practical man he was, he purposed turning his
knowledge to account. In such cases, naturally
enough, a young man’s fancy lightly turns to
thoughts of loot.
The Canton branch of the London and Oriental,
though merely in its infancy, was probably the
most complete and self-sustaining institution of
its kind in the East—even to the extent of keep-
ing on the premises a natty, up-to-date Archi-
medean lever, fqr the printing of its own circulars,
forms, &c., by the docile and low-priced labor of
the country. It will be necessary to bear this in
mind as we go on.
Also, the bank provided its own defence. The
five white officials had been armed, by order of the
directors, with silver-mounted pistols and French
rapiers, and were expected to give no quarter to
intruders.
And, by »n amusing paradox, such as some-
times occurs in national complications, the bank
had also some external defence. Before the
“Arrow” imbroglio had disturbed the friendly
attitude of the Courts of St. James and Pekin,
the Governor of Canton had, as an act of cour-
tesy, allotted a relay of sentries to the bank.
During the strained relations whioh supervened,
he had forgotten to countermand the order, and
now the anomaly was presented of an indigenous
soldier guarding Anglo-Judaic property whilst in
the same city there existed a very decided friction
between his countrymen and the foreign devils.
These details were partly within my uncle’s
knowledge, but entirely beyond his concern.
Impelled by that instinct which drives the Scotch-
man southward, he advanced at the double
towards this opulent institution, now closed pend-
ing reconcilement of the belligerent Powers, and
deserted by all except the Chinese sentry and the
garrison.
The Mongolian soldier was armed at all points.
He’ carried a large matchlock dating from the
time of Abraham, the bamboo barrel strongly
served with sennit and tested to five atmospheres
—a weapon of precision once, but well-a-day ! it’s
date was fled. He also carried two swords, a
dagger, and a rather cumbrous mace—all pre-
historic, probably pre-Adamite, in design. Private
Barney charged the haythen divil with fixed
bayonet.
The Manchurian warrior, who scaled about
1121 b. exclusive of armament, was merely swept
away and flung on his back ; for the equipment of
a soldier in any Chinese crack regiment includes
a thick, quilted corselet of cotton wadding, worn
inside the tunic.
On each side of the front entrance to the bank
stood a huge flower-pot, displaying that lament-
able perspective known as the willow pattern.
Private Barney, thinking he had sent his antago-
nist to reap the due reward of paganism, over-
turned one of these commonplaces of Oriental
arboriculture, and taking up its square granite
pedestal? sent the door to perdition first pop.
Then, carrying his artillery at the ready, lie
cycloned into the building, while the sentry
picked himself up, returned to his appointed
stand, and resumed his attitude of masterly in-
activity.
The garrison had witnessed the unequal contest
between their outpost and the highly objectionable
person with the Queen Anne musket; then they
heard the crash of the door, followed by an
approaching sound as of an infuriated old-man
elephant looking for satisfaction. Whereupon
they left with all their might. Private Barney
was what is coarsely termed a “ he-feller ” —a man
of sinewy, fibrous habit; considerably over a
fathom in length; about fifteen stone nett,
ignorant of everything on earth but the manage-
ment of his weapon, and less amenable to reason
or persuasion than a stone rolling down a steep
hill. He was the wrong sort of lay figure for fas-
tidious desperadoes to think of getting up a repu-
tation upon. True, the garrison had thought of a
cannon, double-loaded with grape, and served by
some cool and skilful gunner ; but.
In a few minutes my uncle emerged from the
door, bearing on his shoulder a small, but incredi-
bly'heavy bpx, dove-tailed, nailed and iron-bound.
Half-a-dozen apartments had undergone a hurried
exploration before bis persistence had been thus
rewarded. .
Observing his former antagonist, and imagining
him to be another Confucian in the field, nay uncle
laid down his box—which emitted from its interior
a metallic rattle as it struck the pavement—and,
imparting to his bayonet a percussive force of
something like 800 foot-pounds, he administered
to the rice-bin .of the cheap and reliable, man-at-
arms a very palpable hit; but the Celestial again
bounced off the point, and like a soldier fell.
Noticing this time the futility of his thrust, my
uncle instructed the enemy to stand .with his back
against the wall; necessarily conveying his mean-
ing by signs and gestures, as he had never made a
study of the Chinese language—nor of the English
either, for that matter. Then withdrawing one
pace, he gave point with the accuracy of a profes-
sional homicide, and with all his might. But the
heir of all the ages received the impact of the
bayonet in the stomach unmoved. The unpreten-
tious corselet still proved impenetrable, whilst the
lethal utensil faithlessly doubled back till it
resembled a boat-hook. Then Private Barney
kicked the Chinaman and shot him, and went his
way. When he was gone the heathen gathered
up his armament and resumed his Watch on the
Rhino. It was the old, old story, repeated so
often from the Orontes to the Yang-tse-Kiang:
The East bowed low before the blast,
In patient, deep disdain ;
She let the legion’s thunder past,
Then plunged in thought again.
Making a circuitous route to rejoin his regi-
ment, Private Barney took occasion to furtively
slide his box into a shallow irrigation channel.
Half-an-hour later he answered to the evening roll-
call as usual.
The night after the battle ! In the officers
quarters a number of God’s Englishmen totted up
the surviving bullet-stoppers, subtracted this from
the grand total of the morning, and, like Old
Kaspar, pronounced the affair a glorious victory ;
and each looked forward to the appearance of his
name in the Gazette. The surgeons’ assistants
passed to and fro carrying limbs and throwing
them into the river, whilst a gang of Chows,
pressed into the service, shovelled trenches in the
softest ground available, and therein bundled
untallied tons of European and Asiatic discoverers
of the grand secret. For, as Napier remarks in
his account of the storming of Badajos ,l there
were many killed, and there was much glory.”
But it is a poor heart that never rejoices; so
there was a sound of devilry by night among the
unassimilated food for powder ; the allowance of
refreshment having been doubled. But as the
evening’s gaiety subsided my uncle became
anxious and restless. The penalties of wealth •
noticed by Solomon, Carnegie, and others—were
beginning to assert their sway. Something
seemed to tell him that the guerdon of his private
enterprise was not safe. He stole past the sen-
tries, and, after a couple of hours’ agonised grop-
ing in the irrigation channel, withdrew his sunken
capital, which he conveyed to a lonely-looking
place and buried in the sand.
But the inevitable regimental spy had noted his
departure and return ; and at 6.30 next morning
my uncle received a dozen —not of port wine,, but
of a much less expensive commodity—on suspicion
of having absented himself without leave.
During the next day, a cold perspiration broke
out through his four million pores as Private
Barney slowly conceived the thought that it
is easier to bury a thing on a dark night,
in a limitless sand-bed, than to find the same
thing on another dark night. So, at .8 p.m.,
he again granted himself leave, . while the
omniscient spy scored another point. Again
he searched, with terror wild—this time till near
daylight—and again he rejoicingly raised to his
shoulder the iron-bound chest containing his
affluence. He made his way to the ruins of one of
the five hundred cottages which had happened to
stand in the British line of fire, and, laying his
locked-up capital in a hollow, he hastily covered
it with a quantity of smashed and dislocated
household gods, including a couple of three-headed
ones. . , . . .
Next morning, my martial relative received
another dozen of the same vintage as before. All
day, he was harassed by the fear that somebody
might go rooting among the debris of the cottages
in search of things likely to come in useful; and
night again found him, like Eugene Aram, chang-
ing the location of the secret which earth refused
to hide.
This condition of things lasted about a fortnight.
Sometimes Private Barney dodged the regimental
informer ; the rest of the time he consoled himself
by the sly conceit that the fools were. flogging a
gentleman of large private resources in mistake
for a common swaddy. But as the day wore on a
more serious turn of reflection would shake his
confidence, and the fear that some busybody
might do the same thing with his unearned incre-
ment hung over his head like a sword of Damocles,
sending him forth iff the night to transfer his
deposit to some new place, seemingly safe enough
in the dark, but a perfect focus of public observa-
tion in daylight. Capital is timid. .
You wonder why he did not realise? Well, if
he had been a deft-handed, mechanical genius
like Whitworth, he would have managed to prize
the box open ; but Private Barney was the sort of
person that cannot drive a nail through a board
without both bending the nail and splitting the
board. If he had been a resourceful, knot-cutting
Alexander, he would have stolen an axe and sent
the box flying ; but he was not an Alexander ; he
was a Thracian and a soldier, as per moral dialogue.
He tried dropping the box from a 15ft. wall on a
massive paving tile; but the effect was the other
way. It was like the eagle dropping his tortoise
on the bald head of ASschylus—the expedient, in
my uncle’s case, springing not so much from
familiarity with classic tradition as from a simi-
larity in brain-power between the British soldier
and the bird of prey.
But in the limited area of physical science open
to the missing-link mind, the most important in-
dustrial factor is fire ; and, by resistless evolution
of thought, the idea gloamed, so to speak, on my
uncle, that he could enlist this form of Force in
the liberation of his capital, and be enabled to
make a kind of audit. Accordingly, at the very
witching time of night, we find him in the seclu-
sion of a wrecked and looted Joss-house ; the box
propped on some bricks, and a small fire blazing
merrily against the iron-bound wood, whilst he
waited to see something drop.
Presently something did drop, and the in-
credible weight of the White Man’s Burden was
accounted for. A quantity of little, square
ingots, of uniform length, rattled out till the fire
almost peris’.c l under the Damae-shovver. My
uncle grasped a handful, and shivered with delight
at the hard, heavy, metallic touch. He threw a
supply of tea-paper prayers on the fire, and by the
bright light examined his congealed ability. It
was the supreme moment of his life. No measly
Chinese currency this time, like what he had made
a month previously, when he went through the
treasurer of the gambling sheol at Hong Kong ;
no money of low-grade brass, with a square hole
in the middle, and sardonically termed “cash”—
the only joke, by the way, in the Chinese language.
No! here was the wizard-metal of modern civi-
lisation, yel'ow gold of the
Then Private Barney swore with all the weak-
ness of a limited vocabulary, and went back, a
penniless man, to take his dozen next morning.
It was a box of type, and the outward inscription
on the box read :
London & Oriental Bank, Canton.
Per Ship “ Himalaya.”
I—l—Blbs. §26
“BIJOU” FOUNT. ASSORTED. BESLEY’S ALLOY.
O. U. LYONDOGUE, TYPE-FOUNDER.
215-217 YORK ST., LONDON.
TOM COLLINS.
“ A weak feature of the Australasian Labo
movement is the unconcerned manner in which
important secrets are continually given away to
the press. It is this irrepressible blabbing, this
leaking of cracked vessels, this running over of
bottles of small capacity that sometimes puts us
in the position of a general whose plans are dis-
closed to the enemy.”—N.S.W. Worker.
In the old days of the Pitcairners in Nor-
folk Island, the sole source of revenue was a tax of
£lO upon illicit pleasures. The system did not
work well, and married sinners too often had to
begin wedded life burdened with a debt of £2O,
which beggared them for several years. When
Hercules Robinson visited the island in ’74, he
substantially modified the fine, and arranged that
marriage between the parties should cancel all
obligations in the way of penalties.


it
I SAID
I CT ed csH cd cz
( -i I
y:
cz
a?
33
O
feg!
V\\V
%
treDfflfes
FI
s.V'.cr'
mem
h>
mm
1
\
r^PIK
And I got Doan’s. 9 *
“I said Doan’s.”
44 You’re a younger man than lam ; let me give you some advice. When
ft man asks you for Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, sell them to him without
any talk. He knows what he wants. I know what I want. I have used
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills for years, and I know all about them. I
know anything about yours. I want Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and I
want to see Jas. Doan’s signature on the wrapper. That signature is a guaran-
tee of the genuineness of the medicine.
“ The last time I was here you tried to sell me something else when I
asked for Doan’s pills ; now you are trying it again. I tell you plainly I won’t
have your substitute. I asked for Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and
that's exactly what I mean to have / ”
DOAN’S
Backacho Kidney Fills.
The Kidneys are the most important organs of the body,
because they filter the blood.
When they are sick, the whole body is sick.
Dizziness, pains in the back, neuralgia, rheumatism, tired,
all gone feeling, dropsy, diabetes, bad blood, inflammation of the
bladder, sleeplessness, nervousness, headaches, etc., come from
fche impurities of the blood which the kidneys should have taken
out. Good health can only be obtained when these very impor-
tant organs are well. The blood must be fresh, clean and pure ?
with not a taint of poison in it.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills heal the kidneys and help them
to work naturally and to remove absolutely all disease-breeding
impurities. They cure disease by curing the kidneys.
Thousands of Sydney people know this now.
Here is one of them
Mrs. Pat. Duffy, 43 Marion St., Leichhardt, this city, says : —“Twelvemonths
ago I took Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills for pain in the back, which I knew to arise
from the kidneys. The doctor said that I could expect it owing to the change of
life. I had been taking various remedies (both internal and external) without getting
any benefit. Only a few doses of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills released me of all
my pains, however.
“ My husband had been suffering from kidney trouble, and seeing how splendidly
they acted in my case, he took the same remedy. He works for the Council, at
asphalting, and is out in all kinds of weather. The pains in his back were extremely
bad. He had been unable to get more than a passing relief out of anything he had
previously tried, but Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured him. Since being cured he
was out working in the rain, and he caught a cold in his kidneys, and so he took more
of the pills. They are first-rate Kidney Pills, and he says that nothing ever did him
as much good as Doan’s Pills. I procured these pills at Newman’s Pharmacy, in
King St.”
For Sale by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box
(six boxes, 15s. 3d.) or will be posted on receipt of price by
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
BUT BE SURE THEY ARE DOAN'S.
Stars in the Mist.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I have followed the sins erf reckless youth
With the Devil to time the dance,
And further and further I drift from Truth
As the hopeless years advance ;
Round me and over the mists are spread,
With the pathway hard to find,
And the roar of the flames of Hell ahead,
And the bridges burnt behind 1
But I ask no help of the gods on high,
On the Devil I will not lean,
And I will not drop to my knees, not I,
For the whole world in between !
For, a-shine on the gates of the Future barred,
Two stars in the darkness move
To guide me : the star of a man’s regard
And the star of a woman’s love !
I shall know no doubt, I shall hold no fear,
I shall suffer and make no sign,
So long as those stars in the night burn clear
And the way of those stars be mine.
And I shall go down to the Deep Abyss
In a scorn of the fears of old
If Fortune will leave me that true girl’s kiss
And that true man’s hand to hold !
U.K.
WILL OGILVIE.
Thirsty Island.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
As the traveller approaches any bush township
he is sure to meet, at some distance from the main
town, a lonely public-house waiting by the road-
side to give him welcome. Thirsty (miscalled
Thursday) Island is the outlying pub of Australia.
* * * *
As the China and British-India steamers arrive
from the North the first place they come to is
Thirsty Island sitting like a sentinel at the gate
of the Torres Straits. The new-ehums on the
steamers see a fleet of white-sailed pearling
luggers, a long pier clustered with a hybrid crowd
of every color, caste and creed under Heaven, and
back of it all a little galvanized-iron town shining
in the sun. For nine months of the year a crisp,
cool south-east wind blows: the snow-white
beach is splashed with spray and dotted with the
picturesque figures of Japanese divers and South
Sea Island boatmen. Cocoa-nut palms line the
roads by the beach, and back of the town are the
barracks and a fort nestled in among the trees on
the hillside. Thirsty Island is a nice place—to
look at.
.When the vessel makes fast the Thirsty
Islanders come down to greet the new-comers and
give them their welcome to Australia. The new-
chums are inclined to patronise these poor, out-
lying people, who apparently are such simple
folk. Fresh from the iniquities of the China-coast
cocktail and the unhallowed orgies of the Soura-
baya Club, the newchums think that they have
little to learn in the way of drink, and that, at
any rate, they haven’t come all the way to Thurs-
day Island to be taught anything. Poor new-
chums ! Little do they know the kind of people
they are up against.
• • • •
The following description of a night at Thirsty
Island is taken verbatim from a new-chum’s note
book:
“ Passed Proudfoot shoal and arrived at Thurs-
day Island. First sight of Australia. Lot of men
came aboard, all called Captain. They are all
pearl-fishers or pilots, not a bit like bushmen as I
expected. When they came aboard they divided
into parties. Some invaded the Captain’s cabin ;
others sat in the smoking-room ; the rest orowded
into the saloon. They talked to the passengers
about the Boer War, and told us about pearls
worth £lOOO that had been found lately. One
captain pulled a handful of loose pearls out of a
jar and handed them round in a casual way for us
to look at. The stewards opened drinks and we
all sat down for a drink and a smoke. I spoke to
one captain—an oldish man—and he grinned
amiably, but did not answer. Another
captain leaned over to me and said ‘ Don’t
take any notice of him, he’s been boozed all
this week.’ Conversation and drink became
general. The night was very hot and close, and
some of the passengers seemed to be taking more
than was good for them. _ A kind of contagious
thirst spread round the ship, and before long the
stewards and firemen were at it. The saloon
became an inferno of drink and sweat and tobacco-
smoke. Perfect strangers were talking to each
other at the top of their voices. Young MacTavish,
who is in a crack English regiment, was asking
the captain of a pearling lugger whether he didn’t
know Talbot de Cholmondeley in the Blues, and
the pearler said very likely he had met ’em, and
no doubt he’d remember their faces if he saw
them, but he never could remember names.
Another passenger—a Jew—was trying to buy
some pearls cheap from the captains,
but the more the captains drank the less
anxious they became to talk about pearls.
The night wore on, and still the drinks
circulated. Young MacTavish slept profoundly.
One passenger gave his steward a sovereign, as he
was leaving the ship, and in half an hour the
steward was carried to his berth in a fit —the fit
being alcoholic in its origin. Another steward
was observed openly drinking the passengers’
whisky. When accused, he didn’t even attempt
to defend himself —the great Thursday Island
thirst seemed to have communicated itself to
everyone on board, and he simply had to drink.
About three in the morning a tour of the ship
disclosed the following state of affairs : Captain’s
room full of captains gravely and solemnly tight;
smoking-room empty, except for the inanimate
form of the captain who had been boozed all the
week, and who was now sleeping peacefully with
his feet on the sofa and his head on the floor.
The saloon full of captains and passengers—
the latter mostly in a state of collapse or
laughing and singing in a delirium of drink ; the
rails lined with firemen who had business
over the side; stewards ditto; then at last
the Thursday Islanders departed, unsteadily,
but still on their feet, leaving a demoralised ship
behind them. And young MacTavish, who has
seen many mess-room drunks, staggered to his
berth, saying, ‘ My God ! Is all Australia like
this place?’”
* * » *
When no ships arrive, the Islanders just drop
into the pubs., as a matter of routine, for their
usual evening soak. They drink weird com-
pounds sometimes—horehound beer, known as
“lady dog,” and things like that. About two in
the morning they go home speechless, but still
able to travel. It is very rarely that any Islander
gets helplessly drunk, but strangers generally have
to be put to bed.
♦ • * •
The Japanese on the island are a strong faction.
They have a club of their own, and lately
held a dinner to mark the death of one of
their members. It seems he was shrewdly sus-
pected of haying tried to drown another member
by cutting his air-pipe, so, when he died, the club
celebrated the event. The Japanese are not
looked upon with favor by the white islanders.
They send their money to Japan—thousands of
pounds go through this little office in a year, in
money-orders—and so they are not “good for
trade.” The Manila-men and Kanakas and Torres
Strait islanders, on the other band, bring all the
money that they do not spend on the pearling
schooners, to the island, and “blow it m,” like
men. They knife each other sometimes, and now
and again they have to be run in wholesale, but
they are “ good for trade.” The local lock-up has
a record of 18 drunks being run in in 7min. They
weren’t taken along in oarriages-and-four, either ;
they were dragged along by the scruff of the neck
mostly. *
Billy Malkeela, the South Sea diver, summed-
up the Japanese question—“ Seems to me dis
Islan’ soon b’long Japanee altogedder. One time
pa-lenty rickatta (plenty regatta), all same Isle o’
Wight. Now no more rickatta. All money go
Japan ! ”
• "*■ *
An English new-chum made his appearance
nere lately—a most undefeated sportsman. He
was put down in a diving-dress in about Bft. of
water, where he bubbled and struggled about in
great style. Suddenly he turned and made a
rush for the beach, and an ebony wit suggested
that he was going up to see the diver’s wife. He
made for the foot of a tree, and was trying to
climb it under the impression that he was still at
the bottom of the ocean, when he was hauled in
by the life-line. The pearlers thought to get
some fun out of him by giving him an
oyster to open in which they had previously
planted a pearl; he never saw the pearl and
threw the oyster into the scuppers with the rest,
and the pearlers had to go down on all-fours and
?rope for that pearl among the stinking oysters.
t was funny—but not in the way they had
intended.
The pearlers go out in schooners called floating
stations (their enemies call them floating public-
houses), and no man knows what hospitality is
till he has been a guest on a pearling schooner.
They carry it to extremes sometimes. Some
pearlers were out in a lugger, and were passing by
one of these schoonefs. They determined not to
go on board, as it was late, and they were in a
hurry. The captain of the schooner went below
and got his rifle and put two bullets through their
foresail. Then they put the helm down and went
aboard ; it was an invitation almost equivalent to
a royal command. They felt heartily ashamed of
themselves as they slunk up on deck, and the cap-
tain of the schooner eyed them reproachfully.
“ I couldn’t let you disgrace yourselves by passing
my schooner,” he said ; “but if it ever happens
again I’ll fire at the deck. A man that would
pass a schooner in broad daylight is better dead.”
* * * *
There is a fort and garrison at Thirsty Island,
but they are not needed. If an invading fleet
comes this way it should be encouraged by every
possible means to land at the island ; then the
heat, the thirst, the hore-hound beer, and the
Islanders may be trusted to do the rest.
THE BANJO.
Essay on “Cookies.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The harmless and necessary cockie is a pronounced
feature in the population of Australia. Until
recently, he existed mostly in the neighborhood of
small towns, but the increasing demand for land
has, of late, driven him further out, and he is now
to be met with further inland. He was originally
a Victorian product, but became crowded out and
forced over the borders into the adjoining States,
and i 8 now becoming a power even unto Queens-
land.
The father cockie is usually thick-set, stout,
and pot-bellied, but his progeny inclines more to
the slab-sided, hoop-backed, crane species; owing,
I suppose, to the climate and diet. The latter is
very varied, and comprises everything between
boiled parrot and his neighbor’s stud rams.
“Cookie’s Delight,” better known, perhaps, as
“ Bullocky’s Joy,” occupies a prominent position
on the table, and may be called the cookie’s “ staff
of life.” It is often thiclf enough to lean on.
Another luxury only indulged in on gala days
(deaths, etc.) is a composition known to the
initiated as “cookie’s blanc-mange.” The in-
gredients are as follows: one native bear, two
quarts of wheat, one tin “delight.” Mix two
latter thorougly, stuff bear, and boil for half a
day. Result, marvellous.
The female cockie when caught young and
tamed, is sometimes quite presentable, but ages
rapidly and turns yellow and flat-footed. When
thoroughly broken they make good grafters, but
are not of much.use for household purposes, being
more accustomed to turning winnowers or grub-
bing seedlings.
Cookies have always to scratch for a living.
When they get past the scratching stage and
begin to live, they cease to be cookies proper, and
become farmers.' However, very few ever accom-
plish that.
As a rule cookies are very religious and have no
sense of humor. Was working with one recently
in Condobolin district, felling scrub for sheep, and
he used to swarm up the currajongs, singing
“ Nearer my God to Thee ” in deadly earnest.
If you meet a man out back whom you fancy is
a cockie, you can always dispel any doubts by
asking him to run. When he moves quickly you
can hear the wheat rattling inside him.
Cookies indulge in curious fancies at times.
Worked for one once who had a curious collection
of carvings, representing some fowls on a roost.
Going to work first day, I thought they were
fowls, but, on knocking off for supper, there they
were in the same position, and although I worked
there for a month, they never came down off the
roost, so they must have been carvings. I never
inquired into the matter, however. In fact, I
never had time.
C. J. D.
The wooden ship Republic, which used to
figure much in newspaper pars, a few years back
re the .question of seaworthiness, is now ending its
chequered career, riding at anchor dismantled,
under a jury rig in Hobson’s Bay as a coal-hulk.


s.®
27
YEARS’ SUCCESS
AS
the UNIVERSAL REMEDY fob
Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza, Whooping-
Cough, Hoarseness, &c.
HAS MADE
£ung Tonic
AN ABSOLUTE NECESSITY TO EVERYBODY.
Important Notice:
SUBSTITUTION.- There are so many imitations
of this successful, and therefore popular, remedy that
it is of the utmost importance you should use the
word “ OW BRIDGE ’ ’ when buying Lung Tonic,
and TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, M.P.B , Chemist, Hull.
Sold everywhere in bottles, at Is. lid.
2s. 9d., 4s 6d., & 11s., by all
Colonial Medicine Vendors.
COP'S RIGHT.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITIOW.
WINES m Be “ on>i SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY-
A Policy for the Commonwealth.
PRICE, 6d ; Posted, Bd.
R
Registered
by the
Medical
Board
of N.S.W.
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON.
HAYING- had 30 years’ experience in all parts of the
world, and also having lately made an extended trip
through Europe and America, he is in a position to
treat every case submitted to him according to the
methods of the most recent and eminent Specialists.
Every Case Treated on its own Merits.
Sufferers at a distance, unable to describe their cases to
their m satisfaction, should write for Dr. Watson’s
“Guide to Diagnosis B,”
POST PH ISP.
which will enable them to give exact and full particulars, so as
to enable him to report fully as to the disease and its radioai
and rationed method of treatment.
Free
( Personally ,
or by letter).
The publication of crowds of symptoms, testimonials and
puffs of one’s skill and attainments savours too muoh of self-
praise ; so the public should look with a doubtful eye upon all
those who “doth protest too much.”
Dr. Watson does not pretend to say that " One Pound is
sufficient to send,” as stated in certain advertisements, for be
considers that the public are quite satisfied to\pay a fair price
for fair and legitimate treatment.
dfg
137 Elizabeth Street 9 Sydney
P4ea.se mention this Paper when writing-.
cz
Siii'ilfjMiiifi!!
;//
TT-
■
SrammivZoinrannJJiiiiti rac nuw&inrc nt aTia
»
523iS£l&& 1
U_3
zUIu
■ggWHAT
BEEGHAM’S PILLS
CAN|DO!|j
BEECH AM’S PILLS cure Bilioup and Neryous Disorders.
BEECH AM’S PILLS cure Constipation and Sick Headache.
BEECHAM’S PILLS ensure proper Assimilation of Pood.
BEECHAM’S FILLS arouse Sluggish and Torpid Livers and
dispel Bile.
BEECHAM’S PILLS strengthen the Stomach.
BEECHAM’S PILLS cure stomachic Troubles, such as Indi-
gestion, Want of Appetite, Dyspepsia, Fulness after Weals,
Yomitings, Sickness at the Stomach, &o.
BEECHAM’S PILLS give almost instant relief.
BEECHAM’S PILLS cure Restlessness and Insomnia, and
give sound and refreshing sleep.
BEECHAM’S PILLS remove the result of indiscretion in
eating and drinking.
BEECHAMS PILLS are suitable for both young and old.
BEECHAM’S PILLS will make you look well, feel well, and
keep well.
BEECHAM’S PILLS are especially suitable for the Diseases
and Ailments common to Females of all ages.
BEECHAM’S PILLS- In ' Boxes, Is. l|d. (56 pills) and
2s. 9d. (168 pills).
Price 6s.
Post Free.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
BT
m
.
m
1111111 l^-
YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regain Health?
The Langston Regenerator
WILL CURE
YOU
Ita effects are almost instantaneous and the good results go
on increasing from day to day.
Health, Vigor, Strength
for all who
desire ii.
OLD SURGEON LANGSJON,
Member Royal College of Surgeons, England, permanently located in
Melbourne since 1886, originator of the Regenerator treatment, has so
perfected his method that it has revolutionised the art of Healing,
and it can almost-be said there are no hopeless or incurable
cases.
Do you feel nervous, fretful, timid and lack the power of will and
action ? Are you subject to loss of memory, broken sleep, feel listless,
Are
You a Sufferer
from bad health in
any of its many forms?
moping, and subject to fits of melancholy? Are your kidneys, stomach, urinary organs, liver or blood in a
disordered condition ? Do you feel generally debilitated ? Do you suffer from Rheumatism, Neuralgia or other
aches or pains?
Do not fail to have the Doctor diagnose your case. If you are unfamiliar with the Regenerator treatment,
prepared in his own laboratory, which is annually curing-thousands, send at once for full information ;
it is absolutely -free.
SeesJs: the Truth, it; costs Nothing I
No matter what you are suffering from, the Regenerator restores the shattered eonstitutio*
like magic.
All communications are considered sacredly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng., cor. Russell & Collins Sts., Melbourne
8
IRISH MOSS
FOR
-The besf remedy-
INFLUENZA,
COUGHS,
Ask for Bonn mg ton's
and seethatyou qet it.
COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA,


WATERPROOF GOATS
RUBBER BOOTS
ahd GOLOSHES
PERDRIAU and COMPANY,
270 Ceorge Street, Sydney
60
fgdfd
"W_ C_ DETjTDXiUDCj-lE] & CO ,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(opp. Centenary Hall).
Conntry Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
(Sole, Australasian Representatives)
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
fgd
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Worthington Pumps
For all Services kept in Stock-
Send for Catalogue.
§a
X
to
to
&
AUSTRALIA
BY
'
m
i*V‘R(ttnT
fdg
SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE.
*0
6
PERTH
STOCKS CARRIED.
S. FREEMAN * SONS L!^
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES;
BATHO'S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN'S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. YINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAP OFFICE; WYNTAED SQUARE, SYDNEY.
biIUTRi
1C umyersai Remedy for Acidity of the
tomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion
Eructations, Bilio
AfF-ctiou
?
The Physician's
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic G out
and Gravel.
Safest and most
6-entle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnawoy.
A
M SB
f !7?u?Br?ojinTH?nrTtTi
m
• ?■
5*
KNOWLES
mm.
*S
m*
r<-6
_
_
m
sr®
Best Value. Highest Efficiency.
A Large Stock of Pumps suitable for every
kind of service ready for immediate delivery.
60 Clarence-st., Sydney, and
533 Collins-st., Melbourne.
PARKE & LACY CO LTD
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
*re*jr comfort **<l ccraTenience *b—
MRS. TOBINS,
Ouecn's Mansion*, 26 Beaconsfloid Parade
v ST. KILDA.
-4- i -a .„<« Best-Appointed Boardrng-hQWM * n J® 18
T*o*sontes* 100 rooms. Magnificent Ration, t*dng
Charges much lower than licensed hotel*. Qity,
i-lsoar W tram. Bilßards, etc.
1. 1. SREEORS t CO.
Machinery Merchants,
Melbourne & Sydney.
HAVE IK STOCK—
Blake's Steam Pumps.
Fay's Woodworking Machinery.
Mundy’s Hoisting Engines- _
Empire Co.’s Laundry Machinery-
American “ All Steel Pulleys-
Harris ‘‘ Champion” Lubricating Oils.
Mason Reducing Valves-
Ludlow Sluice Valves-
Sortings Injectors and Ejectors-
Tanite Emery
dfg
THE OHLY WAY
TO BE CURED of Weakening and Debilitating Disease*
is to obtain the PROPER REMEDIES. We hare the
REMEDY that will CURE YOU. So CONFIDENT are
we of this, that we will send a trial course FREE OF
! CHARGE and abide by the result. Send your symptoms
I and prove our statement. Address — Botanle Institute,
j Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
A POLICY FOR TH€
; ■ - — '
COMMONWEALTH.
Price, 6d.; posted, Bd.
The |l|ica Lubricant (Jo-, S°nfo Shields, Eng.
Lubricants and Packings for all purposes. Patent Mica Grease saves 90% in cost of lubrication, and keeps
bearings perfectly cool. Patent Mica Packings last twice as long as ordinary, and are 25% lighter. _Theydo
not score the’rods, but put a mica surface on them, similar in appearance to electro-plate.
b. a. hervey.
Henry Skinner,
Olarendon-st., South Melbourne,
fw#?>mm x*. am.
Mr. Skinner has a very exfcensire and earefnliy
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
eolonies; and ean with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to hi*.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sixes supplied.
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
B oarders, 9s. per Day. or from 2 Guineas per Week.
