

McEWAN’S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY. IRROY’S CHAMPAGNE.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best
Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
B. «■. WA.TKINS & CO.,
10*7 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ AND GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW, AND SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
McLAREN’S Compound
Traction Steam Engine*
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG, X
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising Yankee Rubber Baby, can be carried in vest
pocket and blown out to life-size (causes roars of
laughter), Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Gasket, Book of
Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Coin and Card
Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard Fish (gives
the definition of your character), The Mafeking Grub (or
nerve-strengthener), and, last of all, that side-splitting
Look and Laugh Glass, Instructions enclosed.
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
Box 3, G.P.O., Haymarket.
H. L. HUTCHINSON,
XNEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
710 George-street, SYDNEY,
GIBSON, BATTLE & C°- 85 ntt street, SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for <l. & H. MCLAREN, Leeds, England, Makers of Steam Ploughing Tackle, Traction Engines for Haulage, General and Special Work.
We Stock and have to arrive McLaren’s Compound Traction Engines; RUSTON’S Portable Horizontal and Vertical Steam Engines;
BROADBENT’S Hydro Extractors; KIRCHNER’S Saw Mill and Wood-Working Machinery.
COMPOUND TRACTION STEAM ENGINES-—^
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831. WHISKY.
»k
s
HOBART
adley s Orient Hotel.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.
CITY HOTEL
(First Grade).
J. A. TURNER « » Proprietor.
PERFECT
•WATER
ASSISTS
DIGESTION
SHOULD
jBEj
ICED
PENFOLD’S S.A. WINES.
PENFOLD & CO* 9 Adelaide; Sydney, 84 Pitt Street; London, 17 Fenchurch Street.
PIONEER
sdf
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia,
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
PRICES PER FOOT OF SINGLE AND DOUBLE
BELTING :
2 2£ 3 3J 4 6 6 8 10 12 inch.
-n -/9 -/10J 1/- 1/2 1/6 1/11 2/8 3/4 4/-
1/2 1/4 1/7 1/10 2/2 2/11 3/5 4/5 5/7 6/9
Agents in every State,
Made by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
IN order to introduce our Gold Wire Jewellery
to the Australian public we have decided to
offer one of the greatest bargains ever seen in the
jewellery trade — viz., the above handsome Brooch
(any name or three initials) made of extra quality
9ct. gold-filled wire, with heart pendant; guaran-
teed the same quality as the brooch advertised,
complete. Sent post-free on receipt of P. 0.0, or
M.O. for ss. in round wire or sq. twisted wire, 15ot
gold, filled, Bs. 6d. Illustrated catalogues sent free'
SIMS and ELBICK, Manufacturing Jewellers.
Our only address —
COLE’S BOOK ARCADE, MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA
THE
‘PLUM’
sdf
THE
‘PLUM’
O.ENTLEMEN. —This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merit*. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM" RAZOR BTROP, specially made for this Razor, 7ft 6tfc
"RAZOLES ” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Price
_ e Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10b 6d; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 219.
Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, ISs; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautilul case, 30a.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part op the Worm.
ear- Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Bole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
“ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 65., Postage Bd., from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
m
PROOF
%
USE <
Head Office:
10 BLICH ST., SYDNEY
sdf
Dr. J. W. GIBBS’
. . Electric Massage Rollers . .
For use on Face and Body.
For NEEVOUS HEADACHES,
NEURALGIA and RHEUMATISM
-ra specific. Removes Wrinkles.
Gold, 21/- Silver, 16/-
Post Free. Pamphlets Free.
AMERICAN AGENCY COMPANY,
Box 440, G.P.0.,
Melbourne.
Hi
Those
suffering
from weak
and sore eyes,
and blight, should
-
SINGLETON’S OINTMENT
Never Fails. Restores Eyelashes.
AliXi CHEMISTS.
sdf
A NICE PRESENT.
The New Combination PIN-
CUSHION, THIMBLE & REEL
HOLDER, nickel plated, plush
top. Clamps on to any table
by means of a spring. Price,
only 25.; post free.
Star Novelty Company,
229-231 Collins-st.,
Melbourne.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS.
Queen’s Mansions, 26 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
mHE Largest and Beat-Appointed Boarding-house in the
o 9 olo ", les - 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels Oitv.
1-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
WHEN buying a KEROSENE GAS BTOVE insist
on getting a noiseless
sdfdf
JUPITER
The Very Latest
Invention.
Burns Noiselessly,
Without Smell
or Smoke,
Perfectly Sate.
Obtained First Prize
wherever exhibited.
Stocked by all Leading Hardware Merchants and
Storekeepers.
Sole Agents for Australasia —
Nelson and Robertson,
17 LOFTUS ST., SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
Vo] 23.—N0. 1173-i
[Saturday, August 9, 1902.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


* “ Sapho ” : Translated by G. F Monkshood. Greening
and Co., London.
“Cite Breaker”
fiis Kerses
and tetters
With Memoir by
W Frank Renar.”
“ BUSHMAN & BUCCANEER—Harry Morant,
His ’Ventures and Verses ”
gives the Life and Writings of “ The Breaker," A first
impression of 5000 has now been exhausted, and .....
The Second Edition is Now Ready.
A BOOK which EVERY AUSTRALIAN should have.
Wholesale from EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO., Ltd.,
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE.
Retail from all Booksellers, and Post-Free from
“ The Bulletin ” Office Is< Id,
The Bulletin publications.
Forwarded to any address in return for postal
notes, stamps, or P. 0.0. for prices stated.
Send Id. stamp for The Bulletin Book Circular,
No. V.
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300
pages; price, 4s. Gd.; postage, 6d.
The Bulletin Reciter:
By Eighty Bulletin Bards. With illus-
trations by “Hop.” N. Lindsay, A. J.
Fischer, F. Leist, D. H. Souter, and H.
McCrae. In handsome cloth, decorated;
price, ss. ; postage, 4d.
Castro’s Bast Sacrament and Other
Stories:
By Albert Dorrington (“ Alba Dorion ”).
A handsome volume of 350 pages, bound in
cloth, decorated; price 4s. 6d. ; postage, 7d.
On Our Selection:
By A. H. Davis (“Steele Rudd”). New
Issue. With about eighty illustrations by
Mahony, Lambert, Vincent, Leist, Fisher
and Fullwood; 6s. ; postage, Bd. * < * “The
jolliest book yet printed in Australia.”
Fair Girls and Gray Horses, with Other
Verses:
By Will H. Ogilvik. New Issue. Blue
cloth, blue edges, with portrait; price, 55.;
postage, sd. *** A charming presentation
volume.
The Ways of Many Waters:
By E. J. Brady. Buckram, gilt top; price,
55.; postage, 3d. *** Australia’s best book
of sea and sailor verse.
Maoriland and Other Verses:
By Arthur H. Adams. Buckram, gilt
top ; price, ss. ; postage, 3d. *** The best
book of Maoriland verse yet published.
The Last of Six:
Tales of the Austral Tropics. By Ernest
Faveno. Paper covers, 141 pp.; price, 6d.;
postage, 2d.
A Hose of Regret:
Verses by James Hebblethwaite ; being
No. II of The Bulletin Booklets.
Enveloped, Is. 6d. ; postage, Id.
At Dawn and Dusk: ,
By V. J. Daley. In handsome doth,
with portrait. Price 55.; postage, 4d.
THE BULLETIN BOOKS.
Sole Distributing Agents:
Edwards, Dunlop & Go., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
Special Wholesale Agents :
New South Waten .. Edwards, Dunlop & Go., Ltd.
Queensland .. Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd
Victoria .. .. .. George Robertson Proprietary.
Tasmania George Robertson Proprietary.
South Australia . . E. S. Wigg & Son.
Westralia .. .. E. S. Wigg & Son.
Auckland and district Wildman, Lyell, & Arby.
Others to be appointed.
Sold by All Leading Booksellers.
The BuHetin Newspaper Go., Ltd.,
214 George-st., Sydney, Australia.
THE LATEST BOOKS AT »
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Winter, A Blaze of Glory, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Barrett (Wilson), Sign of the Cross (new edt.), 2s 6d, p. 4d.
Wilman, Limitless Man, 5s 6d, p. 6d.
Johnston, Uganda Protectorate, 2 vols., 60s, p. Is 9d.
Maude, Tolstoy and his Problems, 2s, p. 4d.
De Gonlevain, Eve Triumphant, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Mark Twain, Double Barrelled Detective Story, 3s 6d, p. fid
Kerr, Elementary Goal Mining, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Dye, Lighting by Acetylene, 7s 6d, p. 6d.
Miller, Modern Polo (2nd edition), 19s, p. Is 6d.
Write to us for any Boole or Magazine you want.
We are always pleased to answer Inquiries.
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doora South of King St.) & at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane & London
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
For
COUGHS, COLDS,
, BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS of the
THROAT and
LUNGS.
(REGISTERED).
I||||
*l®
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable for Singers
and Public Speakers.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OR POST FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR,
et. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q.
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE ; and FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO., MELBOURNE, AGENTS.
They ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia*
THE RED PAGE.
JAMES BRUNTON STEPHENS.
Toward eve’s calm quietude I turned away
Fioin busy citied life and sought the wood,
That I might find relief in Solitude.
And with the dying of the western day
I ventured deeper in its calm, and lay
Me down aweary on the green, to brood
On those half-hidden majesties : the food
Of silence and sweet imaginings. Yea
In all that peace was naught to break its rest!
Yet not an hour had sped to Time ere came
A weeping angel laurelled as with Fame.
Then said I: “ Man ! O wherefore art so drest t
What seekest thou?" “Peace !" he cried, “a king is
dead.”
And wending through the darkness bowed his head.
E. G. BORSHAM.
Pilgrimage.
TWO summers ago I saw the Narrara and the
places where Kendall lived and dreamed
in the years gone by. The cottage he
dwelt in looked as if it had been built to
stand a siege. Its yellow-grey walls, stained by
time and weather, were thick as the walls of a
mediaeval keep; its rooms were dim, and cool,
and sepulchrally quiet. The furniture looked like
antique relics of a dead past. I spoke low and
shivered involuntarily. The house reminded me
somehow of a forgotten tomb in an ancient forest
which I had read of in some old-world legend. I
seemed as if the strange and melancholy spirit o
the dead poet who once inhabited this old tomb
still haunted the place. I felt that if I turnec
around suddenly I would see his hollow, mournfu
eyes gazing at me out of the shadows.
» * * *
The. house appeared to me to nave an uncanny
fungoid life of its own, a baleful vitality tha
made one think of leprosy. What a devil of
place for a poet to inhabit! I would as lief liv
like a toad in a rock. Yet what an ideal dwelling
for a writer of elegies ! But no : sorrow is bes
expressed by contrast. The grief that is too deep
for tears comes to us mostly when we are in the
midst of pleasant surroundings on quiet sunny
days, or
“ When some green afternoon
Turns to the sunset and is loth to die.
It is the knowledge that all this beauty wil
pass away that makes us sad, and cause
us to weave garlands of sorrowful rhyme
On the other hand, it is the revolt from presen
unhappiness and gloomy environment that lift
up our hearts with visions of coming joys, and—
on a larger scale—encourages our belief in
Heaven, the legend over whose gate shall be —like
that which was once over the gate of Medmenham
Abbey— Fay ce que Voudras .... The name o
the poet is connected with a geological feature o
the district. “ Kendall’s Rock ”it is called, if ’
remember rightly. He asked for bread and they
gave him a stone, as usual.
» * • *
Orara ! Name of music. Kendall delighted in
these melodious native appellations with theii
open vowels and rolling consonants. Yet when
uttered by an aboriginal they sound more like in
articulate elementary noises than human speech
I knelt down by the Orara the other day anc
drank a palmful of its cool, crystal water to the
memory of the singer who made it famous amongs
Australian rivers. Do you remember the delicate
lines:
A rose-red space of stream I see,
Past banks of tender fern,
A radiant brook unknown to me
Beyond its upper turn.
Its singing silver life I hear,
Whose home is in the green
Far-folded woods of fountains clear,
Where I have never been.
Ah, folded woods that hold the grace
Of moss and torrents strong,
I often wish to know the face
Of that which sings your song.
I thought of these lines as I sat in the shadow o:
a green jungle and listened to the ripple of the
river below, and the cooing of bronzewing
pigeons in the trees above. And I rememberec
how, on sultry summer days, when the city was
like a vast stone oven, and the air was full of hot
dust, and life was a baked curse, I used to conjure
up visions of the cool green woods by the Orara.
And there I was at last. Everything happens
sooner or later. What you wish for in youth that
you shall have in old age, piled up, says the sage.
Miirger had no lack of good dinners when his
teeth were decayed, and his digestion ruined by
cheap feeding and long fasts. But, after all, that
has nothing to do with the Orara, which, by the
way, I did not see at its best in this season of
drought. Kendall idealises it, of course. That
was his way. Nevertheless, it can flow on its own
merits as a charming little river, beloved of birds
and other melodists.
.* ■ » * *
Kendall lived at Grafton in his earlier years.
Old residents to whom I have spoken on the
subject seem to have but one recollection of him.
He arranged to give a lecture on Australian
Literature —an easy matter in those days, one
would imagine. When the time arrived he came
upon the platform, glared at the audience, gasped
—and fled. The chairman on the occasion rose to
the rescue with an address on beetles, or some
other nauseous but interesting vermin, entitled
“An Hour with the Microscope.” That is prac-
tically all that the eldest generation of Grafton
remembers in connection with the sweetest of
Australian singers. He was employed in the
office of Lionel Michael, an old-time solicitor,
who was also a writer of verse, and whose end was
tragic and mysterious. His (Michael’s) body was
found floating in the Clarence River one morning.
People whispered of foul play, but nothing could
be proved. The following lines, which were
found on his office-table, and which were the last
he ever wrote, seemed to confirm the theory that
he committed suicide. I copied them from his
mouldering gravestone, upon which they are still
faintly legible
Truly my trial has been sore
In sorrow have I woke and slept
And held a face of calm before
The world that guessed not that I wept.
And yet, somewhere, somehow I know
, There must be mercy yet for me :
v Man will have none for me, I know—
My Father ! I will go to Thee.
But there appear to have been dour Christians
in Grafton who had less confidence in the mercy
of the Almighty. In the Presbyterian portion of
the graveyard is a tombstone with the ferocious
inscription: “The wicked shall be turned into
Hell and all the nations that forget God.” That
is the grimmest remark I ever saw inscribed on a
gravestone.
VICTOR J. DALEY.
The Australian Landscape in Art .
THE first thought impressed by the present
exhibition of the Victorian Artists’ Society
is one of regret at the .small number of pic-
tures that deal, in any artistic manner, with
the Australian landscape—perhaps the most refined
and paintable landscape in the world. The
majority of our painters ignore Australia, and
give us hackneyed “bits” of French and English
scenery, stodgy portraits of politicians and nonen-
tities, or “still-life” studies. Yet Australia
offers even a better field for the painter than for
the author. “Our country” is not a land of
stories, of history or traditions, of ballads and
sagas and folk songs. But its lack of historic
interest and romantic glamour is balanced
by the beauty of the Australian land-
scape, its richness and purity of colour,
its original forms, its wealth of broad and
harmonious “masses.” The Australian painter
has virgin soil to work in. Perhaps European
art, the art of the castle and the battlefield, has
had its day. Certain aspects of life and nature
nave received from Velasquez and Rembrandt,
Raphael and Titian, Turner and Corot, complete
and final expression. Nothing is to be gained by
endeavouring to do again what has been done
better by the “old masters.” But the Australian
painter can conquer in fresh fields. There is no
need that he should be merely a “genre ” painter,
the painter of the accidents and externals, the
“ local color,” of colonial life. He need paint no
“ views” of typical bush scenes for the benefit of
the English tourist, nor trivial “anecdotes,” such
as the “Selector’s Wedding,” “The Squatter’s
Last Stand,” &c., for the benefit of the illustrated
penny papers ; but he should endeavor to catch the
spirit of Australia and give some personal and
poetic interpretation of her characteristic beauty.
With such thoughts, I looked round the Gal-
leries, and found few pictures that reproduced
either the spirit or the form of Australia, far less
both ; indeed, most of the works conveyed nothing
of Australia at all.
Bernard Hall is a capable painter, with really
excellent technique. But he paints'only “still
life” studies, tea-cups, palettes, vases, etc., nude
figures sitting on wicker chairs, nymphs in im-
possible meadows. His work reeks of the French
studio and has no intimate, personal charm. He
never paints Australia. J. H. Scheltema gives us
a “Landscape with Cattle ” ; it is probably meant
to be Australian, but it is purely German in
feeling, like hundreds of oleographs that we see
every day in Collins-street windows. Walter
Withers, too, rarely paints Australia. All his
pictures are sweetened with English sentiment,
suggestive of the happy homestead nestling among
the trees, the ploughman homeward plodding his
weary way, and the old rustic bridge by the mill.
Miss L. Riggall has a picture of “ Australian Wild
Flowers,” children playing in the bush, that is a
slight but agreeable work. Hal Waugh depicts
the real Australia in his large canvas of “ The
Dro ght,” and deserves commendation for his
good intentions. But his picture of countless
dead sheep and skinny horses on the parched
plains has hardly sufficient poetic insight to
transmute such material into a work of art. It is
like one of Lawson’s least worthy stories ; but
nevertheless marks a step m the right direction.
Ford Paterson is, in my opinion, one of the
few artists who paint Australia convincingly and
artistically. His latest work, “On the Coast,”
depicting a Brighton scene—the weirdly-twisted
ti-tree, the opalescent sea, the blue sky, ana girls
in pink “decorating” the beach—is genuinely
Australian. The trees are Australian, and the
atmosphere, the sea and the girls also. He has a
smaller picture of Healesville, with its misty
purple hills, long wnite roads, gaunt gum-trees,
and winding creek, that breathes the very atmos-
phere of the bush. These works are genuinely
Australian, and “personal” and artistic, too.
Yeats, Moore and others are endeavouring to
produce an Irish art for the Irish ; and our Aus-
tralian writers and painters might do worse than
endeavour to produce an Australian Art for Aus-
tralians. If it be really Art it will afterwards
appeal to the whole world.
L.B.E.
Daudet and his " Sapho."
IT would be a strange irony of fate if Alphonse
Daudet, author of “Kings in Exile,”
“Jack,” “Artists’ Wives,” “Tartarin,”
and other works of dainty humor, of real
force, and of poignant irony, should be remem-
bered after death only by his “Sapho.” Yet if
the verdict of this decade stands that will be so.
“Sapho,” on its publication, was the greatest of
financial successes. It has since been steadily
read by a few literary students, and by a very great
many of those patrons of letters whose parcels are
sent through the post, “ securely packed and safe
from observation. ” In 1901 it was dramatised by
two or three different people, and one of the
“Sapho” plays secured Royal patronage in holy
England. In 1902, that the “Sapho ” boom con-
tinues is shown by the publication of several
new editions in various languages. One of
there is an English version by G. F. Monkshood
with a pretentious “Translator’s Note,” which is
in English' as bad as the French of the book is
good, and suggests the necessity of a translation
of the translator’s effort. Such words and phrases
as “hetairai,” “faites,” “gestes,” “pudibond,”
“kalpas,” “aviditas vitae,” “charis,” “phro-
nema sarkos ” bristle over the four pages of the
note. It only requires a cheap-book-of-reference
degree of culture to recognise the meaning of
these scraps of Latin, French, and Greek; and
there is not one of them but has a good English
equivalent. Mr. Monkshood could surely have
won his obvious purpose better by writing plain
English, and affixing as a note : “lama person of
culture. I have my scraps of French, Latin, and,
marvellous to say, also Greek.”
Of more consequence than the translator’s bad
taste in nob writing English is his bad taste in
asserting with emphasis that Daudet’s “ master-
piece” is “Sapho.” Well—at the risk of being
called “pudibond”—“ Sapho” is from'first to
last a disgusting book, altogether discreditable to
the great writer who produced it, not in the least
atoning by its measure of literary grace for the
infamies which it suggests. English translations
—fortunately for England—do not as a rule give a
clear idea of the monstrous and imnameable vices
with which it deals (though Mr. Monkshood has
more nearly succeeded in that than any other
translator). When Zola wrote “La Terre”
Daudet was one of those who joined
in the protest of the Realists that the
bounds of decency had been overstepped and
that the Master of Realism had gone to an un-
necessary length in picturing the disgusting.
That protest was certainly justified, but “La
Terre” is pure and beautiful compared with
“Sapho.” Daudet never repeated the experi-
ment of ‘‘Sapho”-: he took the monejr which
poured in for it, but made no second dive into the
depths of the unspeakable. Probably he regretted
the book sincerely—this ugly blot on his artistic
life-work—and his punishment now is that it is put
forward as his “masterpiece;” he, the writer of
delicate and playful irony, with a sense of humor
which was that of a refined Dickens, is condemned
to be famous on the pedestal of an infamy. The
punishment is surely as great as the crime.
Daudet’s “Artists’ Wives,” though aone into
English, lias not had the attention it deserves.
To the short-story writer it may be put forward
as a model of almost perfection. The book con-
tains a dozen or so short sketches ; all with the
same motive, impressing with humorous irony the
argument that the “artist"’ —man of letters,
painter, musician—is a poor life-mate for a woman,
or that any woman is a poor life-mate for him.
The poet whose grand themes are jarred by the
constant reflection of his wife on her unhappy fate
in not marrying a rich linen-draper ; the romantio
wife who leaves her quiet and staid husband for
the fierce delights of life with a poetaster, because
he has written verses with the refrain that “he
believes in Love as he believes in God, ” and
who is disillusioned by a cold garret and the
duty of swathing the rheumatic limbs of a grumb-
ing rascal who evidently was a bit of an Atheist ;
the great composer who, having married an
Italian peasant for her beauty, shivers ever under
the torrents of her bullying abuse —are all painted
with sympathy and humor. On large canvases
“Kings in Exile” and “Jack” are of equal
artistic beauty, whilst the “ Tartarin ” books are
classics of humor. These too, are in good clean
colors—if not in all things quite suitable to the
“ young person.” Yet to most of the English-
speaking world Daudet is only the author of
“Sapho”!
♦
Some correspondents—
“Quilp N.” : “Kiwi,” writing about copyright of
printed books in Maoriland (“ Red Page, 13/6/’2), has
hardly got the hang of ray remarks. I did not say there
is no copyright allowed to the author or publisher of a
book in the province. I said there is no provision made
for registering copyright. The English Act he mentions
(International Copyright 1886) is of course applicable to
Maoriland, and there fs also an ordinance dated 15th
March, 1812, which reads thus :—“The author of any
book which shall hereafter be printed and published,
and his assigns, shall have the sole liberty of
printing and reprinting such book for the ‘ full
term of 28 years, to commence fi-om day of
first publication of same, and also, if author shall be living
at end of that period, for remainder of his natural life.”
And the ordinance goes on to say that any person in-
fringing this copyright “ shall be liable to action at suit
of author or his assigns, double costs of suit allowed, and
shall pay £5O to His Majesty for public uses of the
colony.” But, despite all the laws which are in force
giving copyright to authors, there is no means of register-
ing the same, and anyone may claim authorship of a book.
In short, writers “ have no papers to prove ” their author-
ship, unless they go to the expense of registering in the
United Kingdom at Stationer’s Hall.
F.M. : Be poets and Civil Service billets (19/7/’02):
Is your usual doctrine of “ straight and thorough ” to be
ignored both as regards the Civil Service and the open and
honorable payment of men to whom the nation is under
obligation for work done and national heritage increased ?
If a poet is to have a “ haven of rest, ’ why not painter,
sculptor, singer? And will any one of them find the
requisite liberty and inspiration to exercise the divine art
of imagination amongst red-tape surroundings ? And
then what about the service ? Are you also amongst the
promoters of sinecures ? Or is the leisure of a working
billet supposed to be enough ? Hr much opportunity
did Kendall find at Camden Haven ‘ And, farther afield,
and in a larger way, how much—how very much—was
lost to the world because Matthew Arnold was mewed in
a billet till the spring-tide of song in him had ebbed ? The
straight-out patronage of the old days was better than
the modern billet business. Better still would be direct
acknowledgment and payment by the State for all work
done which actually increases national possessions. In
countries not quite so raw as Australia twentieth century
conditions give scope and afford sustenance for masterful
genius of any sort. My contention was, and is, they would
do so here if the great papers of the continent, daily and
weekly, had progressed on the lines they kept 25 years
ago. Stephens found room and encouragement in the
Queenslander, so did others, writers and artists, in the
Australasian and Sydney Mail. The talk of these papers
to-day is of bullocks, and the “artistic” display is of
crude and cheap reproduction of bullocky subjects. At
no time in history was any great city of the United
States so raw, mean, and consequently sterile in this way
as are Sydney and Melbourne to-day.
[Quite so. But the papers wont reward Literary Genius.
The State won’t give pensions to Literary Genius, and a
fair substitute is to give L.G. an easy Public Service
billet with liberty to write out of hours. Such is good for
L.G. because ensuring bread and butter, and we are un-
principled enough not to care if it is theoretically unfair
to the Civil Service—theoretically, for L.G. is rare and no
State department will be crowded with it to the prejudice
of the Public Service.]
“The Web of Empire,” by Donald Mackenzie
Wallace (George Robertson & Co., Sydney), is a
dull, flat, insipid record of the recent tour of the
Duke and Duchess of York—relieved only by
some very charming pictures. This commonplace
report of a couple of commonplace people’s doings
doesn’t deserve such fine illustrations.
“Elma Trevor” (George Robertson & Co.,
Sydney), by Florence Darnly and R. L. Hodgson,
is a trifle above the average novel in its treatment
of a hackneyed theme—the good man with the love
for the good wife of some other man.
Carnegie’s “Empire of Business” (from George
Robertson and Co., Sydney) is a curious com-
pound of cant and commercial acumen, of blither
and keen business instinct. When the great
money-maker discusses the tariff question, or steel
manufacture, he talks with sound sense. When
he urges that every office-boy carries in his lunch-
Dag a millionaire’s cheque-book, it is silly nonsense
of the kind which Dr. Smiles, in his “Self-Help,”
made popular—mischievous nonsense, too, for
nothing is more destructive of good citizenship
than the fostering of wild hopes of money-making.
The book is, however, on the whole, a keenly
interesting one. Some of its chapters should be
studied by those interested in the iron-industry in
Australia.


dfdsf
WINCHGOMBE, CARSON, and CO., Limited
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN,
S YDN B Y.
M c DOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP
THE ORIGINAL NON-POISONOUSDI P.
MDOUGALL BROS., Street, Sydney.
N. Z . L. & M.A. Co., Ltd., Australia and New Zealandftr Jclan, Cheedle & Co., Adelaide; o. *■ Curran, Hobart.
sdfsdfdfds
Kangaroo s
Wallaby,
Rabbit,
Opossum.
SEND ALL SKINS TO
WINGHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
s-x-iDiKrE'sr,
The Leading Qu4^/<^Keta^ns^
spjscial notice.
MORT & COMPANY Ltd,
SYDNEY
Compare our Reduced Produce Charges
with those of
other Brokers.
Old Charges.
4 per cent.
4 per cent.
2J per cent.
4* fr>er cent.
5 per cent.
5 per cent.
5 unprecedently Low Rates, we desire to emphasise the fact that we are
fullv maintaining the high efficiency of our Produce Department, and Consignors can therefore, when entrust-
fn" theh' produce* to us, rely on securing results that will favorably compare with those obtamed by sending
elsewhere! Special Terms offered to Agents influencing business. Correspondence invited. All Proceeds
absolutely safeguarded by our Trust Account system. GEORGE MAlOJLbUManagen
HIDES
SHEEPSKINS
TALLOW (£lOO and over)
TALLOW (under £100)
HAIR, HORNS, BONES, &C.
FURRED SKINS
BARK
Our Reduced Charges.
3 per cent.
3 per cent.
2 per cent.
3 per cent.
4 per cent.
31 per cent.
\ per cent. (Minimum 4s per ton)
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Charge : 3 Per Cent, to the Growers,
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge K per lb. to the Buyers.
The Bulletin Story Book.
A Handsome Cloth-bound Volume of over 300 pages. The best
collection of Short Stories and Literary Sketches yet produced in
Australia. Price, 4s. 6d. Wholesale : Edwards, Dunlop and Co.
WONDERFUL VALUE IN CIGARS.
SINGLE BOX AT WHOLESALE PRICE.
GUARANTEE: EVERY CIGAR SOUND AND IN PERFECT CONDITION.
Goods Exchanged or Money Returned.
CIGARS
DELIVERED FREE OF DUTY AND CHARGES.
Post Free
N.S.W.
ROMA QUEENS
LA PAROLA, Reliable Smoke- ..
HIGH LIFE MENDOZAS
NIMROD REIN A VICTORIA ..
LA SPECIAL, from Choicest Leaf
SANTIAGO LA FLOR, Fine Quality
“LEOLA,” Borneo, Mild Smoking
“ EL RIVAL,” Borneo, Full Flavor
HEAVY WEIGHTS (P. De Mendoza)
“PERLA” BOUQUET ..
“ EL MUNDO ” (Rothschilds)
“ MENDOZA ” (Rothschilds)
“ PERLA ” (Rothschilds)
“MINERVA” No. I MANILA ..-
“ WINDSOR LADY ” (Manila Regalia)
“PEIjLLA MINERVA,” MANILA, Fine Quality
FLOR DE NAVES (Havana Reina) ..
HENRY CLAY (Havana Couchas, Extra)
Post Free Usual Retail
Other States. Price.
SEND FOR
OUR
LIST
OF
/ c.b.b?
BRIAR
PIPES
MICK SIMMONS,
TOBACCO MERCHANT and IMPORTER,
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
Tobacconists and Storekeepers may obtain Wholesale List on application.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I'O DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
UNNUMBERED MILLIONS
Suffer from some ailment caused by defective action of the
or of both of those vital organs. The sufferings of this mighty multitude are clue to Ignorance or Neglect.
Did they know of the MARVELLOUS CURATIVE PROPERTIES of
WARNER’S SAFE CURE
in eases of this nature, and were they wise enough to take advantage of them, suffering would give place to
PE3R.FBCT HEALTH,
These are some of the Complaints from which those millions suffer-
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Lumbago
Backache
Sciatica
Blood Disorders
Anaemia
Indigestion
Biliousness
Sick Headache
General Debility
Gravel
Bladder
Troubles
Bright’s Disease
All these Diseases are caused by Urinary and Biliary Poisons being deposited in the muscles or joints, or being retained
in the blood. _ __ ___ . .
WARNER’S SAFE CURE
by its specific action upon the KIDNEYS and LIVER, causes all such poisons to be naturally eliminated and
expelled from the body. ■ Iri .
The Disease is then CURED: Speedily and Permanently CURED.


COMPANY.
Capital - - - £5,250,000.
• @
Manufactures the Highest Grade of
Electrical Machinery.
THEIR NAME IS A GUARANTEE.
Dynamos, Engines and Motors up to 250 H.P. in Stock-
Lighting and Power Plants for Immediate Delivery.
Arc and Incandescent Lamps and Supplies of all kinds.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELEGTRIG CO.,
Electrical Engineers and Contractors,
SOLE REPRESENTATIVES.
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, Melbourne and Sydney.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL, you enjoy your lunch
George and Market Sts.,
SYDNEY.
APARTMENTS:
BEDROOM (single), 3s. per DAY.
BEDROOM (double), 6s. per DAY.
Single Room, with Full Board, Bs. per
day, or <£2 2s. per week.
TERMS. The convenient
system of paying for the
room on arrival and
meaJs as they are had.
When you come to Roberts’ Hotel
Dining Rooms; and you not only
enjoy it, but it does you good as
well. There is always a large and
tempting variety of excellent food on
our menu, and on Fridays there is a
special fish luncheon for those who
want it in addition to the ordinary.
The luncheon is ready at twelve
o’clock sharp—from Is.—and there
is first-class attendance. Dinner and
tea from 5.30 to 7.3 o—from Is.
upwards. Silver grill at work.
HEALTH GIVING,
ENO’S
COOLING, ‘FRUIT REFRESHING,
AND INVIGORATING. SALT.’
KING
2h.p. to lOOh.p.
MARINE OIL ENGINES.
Launches built 20ft. to 80ft. overall ~
1 '*////hifitrFrnors/fSAfffiJii "*'
: —-
Noiseless Uuderwater . .
Exhaust.
Perfect Gas Generator.
Double Cylinder.
Automatic Oil Feed.
Simple Electric Ignition
with Dynamo.
J- F.
Telephone 2671.
WITH THE KING ENGINE— ONE LEVER CONTROLS”" THE WHOLE.
2VE CIDER MO T T & CO MF Y,
37 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
in the Grip of La Grippe
MANY COMPLICATIONS LEFT BEHIND.
All Banished and Health Restored
by CLEMENTS TONIC.
The Case of Mr J. BARTLETT.
(BY A SYDNEY REPORTER.)
It is to the interest of this country that
all citizens should be so educated that they
may become a self-reliant and prosperous
- people, and to put this idea into practical
effect a reporter was commissioned to bring
before the community a mat er here dealt
with by Mr. James Bartlett, of No. 5
Patten’s Buildings, Kent-street, Sydney.
“In the time of a great epidemic.” said
Mr. Bartlett, “ when influenza was ram-
pant in Sydney, I was one of the many
who failed to elude that terrible disease.”
“ Were you in danger of meeting with
serious consequences? ” asked the wiiter.
“ There was every likelihood that I
would never get well again, as I was in a
frightfully low state for many months.
Matters went so badly with me that I
thought I was fighting a hopeless fight
against an overwhelming force, and as I
1 was laid up for weeks, and could not do a
stroke of work for seven months, I think I
had good cause to form that opinion. I got
so thin and ghastly white that everybody
thought I was going into consumption, be-
sides getting awfully weak into the bar-
gain. j The pains in my head were enough
to run away with one’s senses, being of that
heavy, depressing nature which makes the
victim feel as if there is only care and
sorrow in the world, It was not the in-
fluenza itself that I had to regret so much
as the effects it left behind, for my system
seemed so upside down that there was not
a sound part about me. My limbs w ere so
racked with aches that if I walked a few
yards I had to sit down and rest for the
purpose of easing the. pain, but another
reason why I could not go far without
taking a spell was because I used to turn
very giddy. Through that cause I nearly
fell down ifstairs several times, so
that I was almost afraid to move in case
of meeting with an accident. I wondered
what was the good of living in such misery,
for I had no energy, no pleasure, no any-
thing that was worth having. For weeks
and weeks I could not get any sleep, and
there was a feeling in my eyes as if they had
swelled up. A dark haze was visible at
every turn, my sight being so bad that I
could scarcely see, and if I wanted to get
anything for myself I had to grope about
as if it were dark. I could not hear very
distinctly either, owiug to a strange drum-
ming in my ears, so that I was not much
use to anybody, indeed, I was a nuisance
to myself, and would like to have been out
of the way of the persecuting pains which
came to the small of my back and almost
paralysed me whenever I stooped. This,
together with the thickness of my urine,
told me that my kidneys were disordered,
and I was afterwards told so by the doctors
whom I was treated by, with the additional
information that my liver was also dis-
eased.”
“ Bid they give you any medicine ? ”
“Of course they did, and I was never
behind hand in taking it, as my enforced
absence from work meant a great loss to
me, and I wanted to get better. But, some-
how, my condition remained stationary.
When I examined my tongue it was al-
ways furred and rough, while my mouth
had a' foul taste as if I had been drinking.
Not a morsel of food could I enjoy, but I
am not one to give in till I am fairly beaten,
and I used to make myself eat; but it
would have been better if I had spared my-
self the trouble, as everything seemed to
decay in the stomach, and give rise to ex-
cessive torture in the form of windy spasms.
My chest also felt as if a piece of lead had
l»dged there for the purpose of stopping my
breath, and there was no relief to be got
till. I vomited everything up again. The
weakness of my stomach was so advanced
that I could not keep my food down, so
that accounts for my feebleness and the loss
of flesh I sustained. There was also some-
thing wring with my heart, which palpi-
tated as if i had been indulging in some ex-
cessive exercise, and with my nerves all
gone I was completely wrecked from every
point of view. A twitching pain below my
neck irritated me, but for that matter I
was always in an irritable mood, even the
sound of voices raised in laughter being
sufficient to annoy me; but I was so
des ( erate and desp ndent that I did not
know what to do with myself. In any
short stretches of sleep I got there flashed
an awful picture upon my vision, aud when
I woke up I could not help thinking that
something I dreaded would surely happen,
although I recognised that death would
have been preferable to any more suffer-
ing.”
“ Why did you not try a change of
medicine ? ”
“If I had not done so I would not be
here to-day, as I was sinking very fast after
the long and torturing captivity in the
hands of my diseases, when a fellow-work-
man prompted me to try Clements Tonic.
It was not till I carried out his advice that
the influenza was beaten, and now, after a
long and convincing experience, I am sure
there is no medicine on earth like Clements
Tonic, for after taking a couple of bottles I
was feeling a new interest in existence.
The improvement was then so marked that
I ventured to hope that a possibility still
existed that I would yet recover, and by
closely pursuing my latest course of treat-
ment my heartfelt hopes were gratified. I
started on the right track with a slight
appetite, which came through using
Clements Tonic, and which that medicine
continued to increase. Then my liver be-
gan to work more regularly, a fact which
afforded great relief in several ways. For
instance, iny headaches slackened off, and
the sickly taste left my mouth, besides hav-
ing full use of my eyes in consequence of the
disappearance of the haziness before them.
The pains in my back and shoulders were
lighter than before, and I had no trouble in
breathing, as my chest was quite free from
oppression. A feeling of vigour crept
through my system through the medium of
Clements Tonic, and I was gaining in flesh
already, which showed that my food was
digesting well. I marvelled at the rapidity
with which my vomiting troubles were
stopped, while the action of Clements Tonic
on my nervous system could not be too
highly spoken of. When my liver and
kidneys had been relieved of all symptoms
of disease by Clements Tonic I hardly knew
how to suppress the gladness I felt, es-
pecially as no cause remained for anxiety
as to the state of my heart, which ceased
palpitating shortly after flatulence was
remedied.”
“ And now your health is perfect, I
believe ?”
“It could not be better, for I took
Clements Tonic till I was cured outright,
and for the past three years I have scaled
over 13 stone. lam thankful to be able to
give this information, which you can pub-
lish in any way it pleases you.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION'.
I, Jambs Bartlett, of 5 Patten’s Buildings, Kenfc-
street, Sydney, in the State of New South Wales,
Commonwealth of Australia, do solemnly and sin-
cerely declare that I have carefully read
the annexed document, consising of four
folios, and consecutively numbered from
one to four, and that it contains and is a true and
faithful account of my illness and cure by Clements
Tonic; and also contains my full permission to pub-
lish in any way my statements—which I give
voluntarily, without receiving any payment; and
I make this solemn declaration conscientiously be-
lieving the same to be true, and by virtue of the
provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Sydnty, this
twenty-sixth cay of March, one thousand nine
hundred and two, before me,
WM. P. FITZGERALD, J.P.
THE GREAT EVENT
HATTE’S CORONATION FAIR
rpHE King: rules by right of descent over Millions of Free-born Britishers, and Hatte, by virtue of
Good Value, exercises a gentle sway over the Ladies of New South Wales. Just now—
The Great Coronation Fair
is on
And the People of both High and Low Degree are Rejoicing.
There are £250,000 of Absolute FAIRING BARGAINS and 400 Highly Efficient
Assistants waiting to give a ROYAL WELCOME to the LOYAL LEIGES
of THE KING OF THE DRAPERY TRADE.
Ladies ! come early to the Fair (it will console you for being absent from Westminster), and
send for a Fair 800k —the Greatest Bargain List ever published.
C. G. HATTE, Newtown,


Had Catarrh for
Five Years
After other remedies failed,
Scott’s Emulsion effected a Cure
For all of the chronic affections that
result from taking cold, there is no remedy
so effectual as that whioh is mentioned ia
the following letter: —
“ Ravenshead House, St. Helens,
“ Lancashire, England,
“ October 9th, 1000.
“Dear Sirs, —I had been suffering from
nasal catarrh for about five years, and
always seemed to have a cold. Every
morning I had a severe fit of sneezing,
which was intensely disagreeable. I tried
very many remedies, but nothing did me
any good. I was advised to try Scott’s
Emulsion, and am very thankful I did so.
From the time I commenced the use of your
S reparation I felt I was deriving benefit,
[y chest beoame stronger, and all my
x \ V////// // ;';;/// /
ROBERT G. RIDGEWAY.
(From a photograph.)
Unpleasant and distressing symptoms
gradually disappeared I may say I have
given Scott’s Emulsion a good trial and
the results have been entirely satisfactory,
having quite lost my old complaint—catarrh
—and to Scott’s Emulsion I give the credit
of my present satisfactory state of health,
having taken no other medicine since I
commenced its use. I found it very pleasant
to take.—Faithfully yours,
“ (Signed) Robt. G. Ridgeway.”
In the majority of cases, it is unneces-
sary to allow weak tendencies to continue
until they develop into chronic ailments.
Scott’s Emulsion is just what is needed to
strengthen the system so that weakness is
overcome through the natural processes of
Nature. It stimulates the appetite, bene-
fits digestion, and nourishes the weakened
system baok to strength and vitality as no
other remedy can do.
When taking Scott’s Emulsion, the
patient does not realise he is taking cod-
fiver oil, because Scott’s Emulsion is so
palatable and no disturbances of digestion
follow taking it. Scott’s Emulsion is far
superior to the plain cod-liver oil because it
is palatable, and does not tax digestion.
That cod-liver oil contains meritorious
properties cannot be disputed by anybody,
and in order to derive the greatest benefits
from these properties, the oil should be taken
in the form of Scott’s Emulsion, which may
easily be distinguished from other prepara-
tions by our trade mark of a man holding
a big fish over his shoulder.
You can obtain a sample of Scott’s Emulsion
by sending fourpence to Scott & Bowne, Ltd.,
483 Kent-street, Sydney, and mentioning this
paper. All chemists sell Scott’s Emulsion.
;CURES
COUGH
•ffiiS?
used
pbomp tlY
h
VV"- 1 - B
eueve
and
CUR^*
... Jfl Nursery-
iavalaab
Ca sU?n ce8 ’
STORS-
COUD
fsTOPS
l COLD
CUREsI
-COUGHJ
BALSAM OF HOREHOUND
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
For Coughs and Colo
Every Dose Effectiv.
Will Cure when Others Fai.
For Pain in the Sidi
Best for Influenzi
In Bronchitis and Loss of Voice
Whooping Cough and Croup
For Children, Safe and Sure
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C. P. (combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand,
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Ou new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per cent,
of the loan during any year without notioe or payment of any fine.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
HHautfV.
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 10Sr
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
Send for a
Catalogue.
fs
Bent*Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers ol Light Vehicle*
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
W ; MELBOURN E-ST. , CONCORD, SYDNEY
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for Catalogue. Agentswanted
PLAYER’S
WORLD
FAMED
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
mm
K ■
AS,
mm
ismmt
WHOLESALE
Distributing Agents
New South Wales —
M. RUTTY & GO.,
BYDNEY.
Victoria —
J. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia —
Hart, Lawrence & Go.
Propy. Ld., Adelaida
Western Australia —
Lionel Samson & Son,
Fremantle
Queensland —
Thos. Brown & Sons, Ld.
Brisbane
Burns, Philp & Go. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania—
Watchorn Bros.,
Hobart
John McKenzie & Go.,
Launceston
New Zealand—
D. Benjamin & Co.
Dunedin, Wellington
and Ohristohuroh.
m
i
ml
The GANZ
Electric Apparatus
are built right.
Let us give you some
evidence of their
superiority.
Canz Direct Current Air-Propeller. 80LE AGENTS:
The J|ustral Qtis Engineering (Jo., Etd., South (Ijelb.
KARTELLS
“A genuine
old Brandy
made from
Wine.”
Medical Press.
THREE STAR
“Particularly suitable
for Medicinal
Purposes.”
Tfu Lancet.
f
IM.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company
When In town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description ot
SADDLERY.' If so, send for our Price List You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, i's; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, i. 7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not ba
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for leal
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay la pjf
cent more for your requirements.
193 to 195 Cleveland-streot, Redfern, &YOSi&)t
OUR SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
Ooliyered at anjr Wharf or
<.S.W. Railways, Station
£10 10/-
Price 6s.
Post Free.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
• 'BY '"« if
Steele Rudd,*
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Garden of Weeds.
Take the cool path; my dear dreaming garden
Many cool paths discovers ;
It is pride bids me ask you to pardon
This personal fashion
Of grass green and ashen,
And wan weeds, your outcasts —my lovers.
In times somewhat sooner I planted
My splashes of color ;
What flower to each feeling was granted ?
Daffodils for the pleasure ?
The soft finger-pressure—
That first girl ? Their place now is duller.
There once, where the grass was at thickest,
Was a sunflower riot—
Gold masses, they marked where the quickest
Faint smile of all women
Dimmed my eyes as they dim ill
The gold blaze—the grass, see, so quiet.
That marigold ghost of old fancies
Is a fair hope mistaken ;
These thin, pale, dwarf daisies are glances,
In prismatic slumber,
For loves without number,
Each petal a folly forsaken.
Lifted lip !—is it here lam busy ?
You smile : Where my skill is :
STou miss the gold hearts of narcissi,
The splendour of roses,
Bright burgeoning closes,
The white flash of arrogant lilies ?
They are well—if love’s light does not blind you—
Your eyes may be keener :
Mine dimmed in the limelight—behind you,
That glaucous tuft waving
I think faultless, saving
Too pale; not my fault ’tis not greener.
M.L.
M. CORMAO.
Waiting.
Oh, the paper on my wall,
Where the roses lie and sprawl,
First a bud and then a spray,
Then six roses—pink on prey . . ,
And I count the flies that crawl
Up and down my bedroom wall.
And the carpet dimly green
With a peony between—
Every bloom has petals-eight,
Four are curled and four are straight
With a leaf to intervene,
Then two peonies, then green.
See them tread the Golden Stair,
White-robed maidens grave and fair;
She a-stoop, and she a-tum,
All their yearning eyes a-burn . . .
Never stir the maidens white,
Nor the doves spread wings for flight.
And the clock ticks on and on. . .
There’s another half-hour gone,
But it seems that evermore
That clock’s hand will point at four;
And it has to crawl to five,
When, they say, she will arrive.
Shut my eyes and she is here,
Tall and straight-limbed, wind-curled hair.
And her eyes are stars that woo,
And her cheeks are roses two,
And my summer and my south
Is her tender-kissing mouth.
VIO.
THE YOUNG ’UN.
L'Amante et L'Amant.
Dearest, the seasons come and disappear ;
The green’s succeeded by the yellow sere ;
In turn receding, in turn they re-occur,
And Summer garb gives place to Winter’s fur.
My life’s sweet Summer day will some day wane,
But not, like Nature’s, to appear again.
0, promise me, my knight, my love, my friend.
That you will come, be with me at the end,
\.nd in your arms enfold me, pillowed on you?
breast;
So let me, dying, love you. Love me! —then I
rest.
Dear heart, if Death should choose to take thee
first,
Let me be there to hold thy small sweet hand—
Thy gentle hand, a noble deed its worst;
That, clasping so, I may not be unmanned,
But gaze with steadfastness into thine eyes
A.nd watch thy mortal strength in its eclipse.
Nor let me doubt that God is truly wise,
But seek His earthly comfort in thy lips.
And, when at last exits thy final breath,
I’ll lock thee close and fly with thee—and Death.
H.V.N.
To Maud.
Weary of earth and its delusive shows,
Weary of thoughts that would not give me rest,
Weary of dark forebodings and depressed,
f craved death’s blank negation and repose—
Only to stretch the weary limbs, and close
The languid lids, and faintly feel that best
')f comforters cooling my burning breast
Vnd loosening from my heart its weight of woes,
low sweet it seemed ! When 10, a swift surprise :
Crossing my path as gently as a dove,
With something sacred in your large sad eyes,
{ou filled my soul with hope and joy and love
extending feelings and new sympathies,
. md lavishments of impulse from above.
N.S.W.
ARTHUR A. D. BAYLDON


ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers & Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
Every Requisite for Saloon Usb in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia.
& A.IXKEKT,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 George Street, Sydney.
WANTED
JP YOU ARE SUFFERING from any of the following
ailments, viz., Rheumatism, Sciatica, Vital Weak
»ess, Liver Complaint, Dyspepsia, Lamb Back or
Debility, Kidney Disease or any Organic Derange-
ments, we want you to wear one of our ELECTRIC
BELTS, and when CURED to let other sufferers know
that our ELECTRIC BELTS will permanently CURE
When all other Remedies have FAILED. We prefer those
cases who have failed to obtain relief elsewhere. Send
us a description of your case, and size around the waist
next to skin. Address—
ARTHUR HALE & SON, Medical Galvanists,
44 Castlereagb-st., Sydney.
London Address: 105 Regent Street, W.
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from I7st. to 10st. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney
Sending, mention this paper.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Pour Weeks by the use of
OS RI CORO’S
,tSS^ cE, °f \,\f
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 128. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
' extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope
Agents for Australasia —PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St,
Melbourne ; Wholesale Agents for New South Wales —
F. H. Fauldlng & Co., 16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
tm
DEAF
sd
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Dkafness
■and Head Noises, no matter of
■how long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible.. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free. 0
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
DR. J. COLUS BROWNE’S
rHLOROPyNE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &c-. bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN 6.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ot
Sept. 88, 1805, eaya:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forma
its best recommendation.”
Powell’s Balsam
of Aniseed.
— SAFE AND RELIABLE—
wwa uiimeaiaie Keiiei.
'Had e
FOR 78 YEARS
THE POPULAR REMEDY FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza, and all Lung Troubles.
J Phlegm immediately, and removes
the tickling sensation in the Throat, which de-
prives so many of rest during the night. It also
strengthens the Voice and Cures Hoarseness.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers,
But see the well-known trade'Mark— Lion, Net
and Mouse—is on each wrapper.
Preoared only by Thomas Powell, Ltd., .
W Blackfriars, London, S.E. A
WOOL. PRODUCE. CRAIN.
The New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Coy., Ltd., SYDNEY,
ACT A.S SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
Consignors are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of this Company.
WOOL
COMMISSION FOR SELLING THREE-QUARTERS (|) PER CENT.
WAREHOUSING
'(lncluding Receiving into Store, Fire Insurance,
Weighing, Lotting, Repacking, Sample Bales,
Advertising, Cataloguing, etc.) on Wool real-
ising over SIXPENCE per lb. the charges
•< will be 3s. 9d. per Bale.
On Wools realising SIXPENCE and over Four-
pence per lb. ... ... ... ■ • ... ... 2s* 6d. per Bale.
On Wools realising FOURPENCE per lb. and
k under ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Is. 6d. per I3cilo.
Perfect System of Weighing. Way Bills sent on Application.
PRODUCE
BALES of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, etc., HELD WEEKLY.
WHEAT.
Every inducement is offered growers to consign their grain for realisation by the Company
Ample accommodation is provided. Three months free storage is allowed. Circulars are sent when
desired giving cost of railage and full particulars as to Charges, Advances, etc., etc.
AGENTS POR McDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP.
J. BARTRAM & SON
34 & 36 Market Street, Sydney
(Corner of
Clarence Street)
19, 21, 23 King Street, Melbourne.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES . !
The ENGLISH DE LAVAL STEAM TURBINE CO. LTD., Leeds.
fdf
df
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regain Health?
Go to the Fountain Head
And consult Old Surgeon Langston, who will Cure
you. Forty years’ practice as a Specialist is sufficient
Guarantee of the doctor’s ability.
AVOID unskilled pretenders, flaming advertisements and specious
cure-alls.
Vigor and Strength
for all who
desire it.
OLD SURGEON LANGSTON,
Member Royal College of Surgeons, England, located in Melbourne
since 1886, has so perfected his method of treatment that it can
almost be said there are no hopeless or incurable cases.
Be the equal of your fellow man.
If you are a sufferer from any nervous, chronic Blood or Skin diseases, or interested in the subject of
Neurasthenia and associated evils, write at once for book of information, blank forms, etc., and have the
old doctor diagnose your case.
Seek. tb.e Tr-utb., it coats INTotbing! *
All communications strictly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, cor. Russell & Collins Sts , Melbourne.
ROB ROY pens
Hinks, Wells & Go. beg to draw attention to this new series of
turned up pointed and other pens, made of the same material, by the
same tools by the same process and at the same works, as the well
known series of Waverley Pens, which Hinks, Wells & Co. have for
30 years and upwards (prior to September 1901), manufactured for
and supplied to the proprietors thereof.
dsf
df
. Sold by all
Stationers in 18
varieties in
6d., Is. & gross boxes.
HINKS, WELLS Sc CO., Birmingham, England,
m
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. JE. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 86 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it. a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1902 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
The Art of Wrestling, post Is. Hoyle’s Games, post 2/6
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted. Camille, Is 3d.
Secret History of the Court of England, 16 post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is Sd |
Sandow’s Book of Strength, Ss 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. I
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free. I
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Ciievasse’s Advice .to. a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted. Sappho, Is.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want,
j The Wife’s Handbook, Is 2d posted.
| The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post,
i 100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
I.jCO illns. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid
Com . ete Farrier and-Hoß.se Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance. Is 3d.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s posted.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music complete), Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 6s 6d posted.
Send for my Illustrated Big Book
Catalogue—post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
BLAIR’S
GOUT $ RHEUMATIC
PILLS.
The Great English Remedy for
GOUT, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO & NEURALGIA.
The acute pain is quickly relieved and cured in a
few days by this celebrated Medicine.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no-restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, and sold at Is. ljd. and 2s. 9d.
per box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
“Don’t shout”
'• l hear you. 1 can hear now
as well as anybody.
“• How?' Oh. some-
thingnew— The Wilson
Common-sense Ear-
Drum. I've a pair in my
ears now. you can’t see them
they're invisible. I wouldn't
know I had them in myself,
only that I hear all right."
The Wilson Ear-Drum is
really a substitute for the
parts of the
natural ear. Has no
wire. Invisible, easy to ad
just, comfortable Totally
different from any other de-
vice Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request
CHAintttS, 229-231 Collins SI., Help.
sd
fds
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
$
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole Agents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English
American and made to order
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues , Par-
ticulars, <Scc.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers
281 GEORGE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
Si
Vapor Bath Cabinets.
Price, 25/-
Head and Face Steamer, 3/6
Carriage paid to any railway station
on direct route in Victoria, N.S.W.,
and S.A., or any seaport town.
We also have a better quality
Cabinet at 45/- (Head and Face
Steamer free to advertise this line).
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY,
229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne
Hypnotism
Reader, why not he able to use the
most mysterious and powerful force ol
nature'? By my method you can learn
t# Hypnotize in a few hours time, witn-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all the many marvellous feats
I that are possible to the Hypnotist
, Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
I conquer pain; win reluctant affection,
I gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. Itcostsy
nothing to find out all about it I nave
just issued in book fnrm a mammoth
illustrated LESSON Of Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explains
the mysteries and secrets
of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever published. For a short
time I will send this magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed on
receipt of 6d. (stamps) to cover
postage. Order to-day and learn
to Hypnotize. It is a chance of ,
a life-time. Address—
sdf
sd
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
ASTHMA CURE
I GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES I
Fop Asthmatic people who suffer from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault’s Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
GRIMAULT & Co., Paris. Sold by all Chemists.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout, Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy •
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdßstre & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN'S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all 1
Chemists in the Australian Colonies. '


PROVEN EFPICACY^
m
m-
<s.
LLJ
UJ
©
/Ss*
d
*5
&
sr®
I
OF ALL CHEMISTS
THROUCNOUT (jREAT BRI74IN 4 IMt COLONIES
CaTM»RTICUM PILiS jWK'UylnM*
jSt COACUUNE •
Transparent Cement for all Broken Articles
CANT YOU BREATHE
freely ? Have you to sit up in bed gasping for
breath? If so, you are only one of a countless
number whose lives are made a burden to them by
ASTHMA.
If you wish to rest again at night, and breathe
with head erect by day, send ss. to NEWHAM
WATERWORTH, Edward-st., Brisbane,
who will forward post; free a sample bottle of a
New Remedy for Asthma, a few doses of which
will prove to you that life is still worth living.
WONDERFUL
CURES BY*
ELECTRICITY
Chronio and nervous
diseases of men and wom-
en yield to the influence'
of the electric fluid, when t
medicines fail to give re*
lief. There is no mistake
about this for we have
gratefhl testimony of hun-
dreds of reputable people
in all parts of the world who have used Dr. Pierce's famous
American Electric Belt and proved the truthfulness of
our claims. Reader, if weak, nervous ; tired of drugging
the stomach and paying doctors' bills, write today for
“Booklet No. 2,” enclosing stamp, and you will learn of
the greatest remedy of modern times. Address, — PjerCC
Electric Co., 206 Post St., San Francisco, U. S. A., or
W. H. Soul & Co*, *6O Pitt Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
<3!
ytmi
CORSETS.
The Recognised Standard
HIGH-CLASS CORSETS
LATEST SPECIALTY
Straight Front
Erect Form,
Obtainable from Leading Drapers
Everywhere.
Avoid Inferior Imitations, and see that each
pair bears the Manufacturer’s “Trade'Mark” on
band inside, as above.
i.1**
•m m §
sISSS H
Bd.covPM
FINSEN’S—-
NAEMATIN - ALBUMIN
TABLETS
A Certain Cure for POVERTY OF BLOOD,
AN/EMiA and WEAKNESS, from whatever cause
arising. The latest wonderful discovery by the great
Danish Scientist,
PROFESSOR NIELS. R. FINSEN.
GIVE THEM A TRIAL I
Obtainable from S. HARRIS, Chemist, 82 King-st. ;
WASHINGTON H. SOUL, Pitt-st. ; PATTINSON & OO.,
Ltd., and all their Branches ; and all leading Chemists, at
3s. 6d. per box.
PHOTO-S
From Life, for Lovers of Art, Beauty, and Chie;
Carefully Selected Assortments, Cabinets, or
Stereos, with Illustrated Catalogues and Minia-
tures, 3s, 5s, 10s, 20s. Money Order or Cheque
on London.
English, French, and German Rare Books
Explain wishes and requirements, and full satisfaction
will be obtained.
R. GENNERT,
89c Faubourg St., Martin, Paris, France.
London Bankers:
L. and SOUTH WESTERN BANK LTD., Head Office.
9
TWO POINTS OF MUCH IMPORTANCE.
6 - - m THE
The great success attending the use of the “Allenburys” Milk Foods is in a great measure
due to the two following important facts
(.) Th»,™„ri. y >n» r «.i.nbh rf milk; the constituent. being in « Xl-J-g-J
Mi«d mth w,”«?Sg P » ?he directions « humanised milk is provided. and much more so titan ordinary modified or diluted coeds null.
The “ Allenburys ” Foods are especially valuable in hot climates. They are in the
form of powder and keep perfectly.
Pamphlet on “INFANT FEEDING ” (48 pages) free,
from 495 , Bonrke Street, Melbourne.
Allen & Hanburys, Ltd., *Ploug6 Gourt, Lombard St., Jbondon.
MILK FOOD No. 1.
From' birth to three months.
MILK FOOD No. 2. *
From three to six months.
MALTED FOOD No. 3.
From six months and upwards.
1
m
f
Nv*
x,
Mf
'AV.N
x:
Have HEARD
20,000 WEAK
DESPONDENT MEN
OUR THUNDER.
COULDN’T WALK.
Brewarrina, May 20th, 1902.
Gentlemen,—l have been using your belt a month.
It has greatly improved my right side, as it was very
weak. I can walk a short distance, a thing I could
not do before I got the Belt. I wish you every suc-
cess ; it has done more for me than I expected.—
Yours, very truly, .
WILLIAM SHEARER.
TAKE THEIR WORD FOR IT.
We have proven that Electricity is the basis of ail animal life, and that WEAK MEN,
DYSPEPTICS, RHEUMATICS, SUFFERERS FROM INERTIA, WEAK KIDNEYS, PAINS IN
THE BACK, HEAD, CHEST, AND SHOULDERS, are weak in Electricity. Our Electric Belt
restores this life in a few weeks, and cures every case where specially recommended.
WAS WEAK.
Leichhardt, May 29, 1902.
DR. MCLAUGHLIN CO.
Dear Sirs,—l have now been using your Electrie
Belt for some weeks, and during that time I have de.
rived considerable benefit from it. The nervousness
and debility, from which I suffered for years, has now
entirely disappeared, thanks to the aid of your Belt.
I remain, yours sincerely,
Manly, May 26, 1902. W. BRYANT.
DR. MCLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC CELT
IS MADE
TO CURE.
THIS MAN SAYS.
Your wonderful Belt is worth many times the price
X paid for it. My doctor told me that my lame back
would not get well for many weeks. Your Belt cured
it in two. After I had suffered for weeks I decided to
try one, and you know how satisfied I was.—JXOBT.
VERON, Darling Pt., N.S.W.
HEAD THIS LETTER.
Other so-called Electric Belts had failed me en-
tirely ; but your Electric Belt cured me of my lame
back, which had troubled me for years. One week’s
wear seemed sufficient, as I have no further pain.—
A. J. GREENLAND, J.P., “ Launchley,” Uralla,
N.S.W.
EXTRACT FROM
“The Australian Mining Standard,” July 24/02
“Patent No. 11,514, Sydney.—lmprovements in Electric Belts. This invention is in-
genious, and exhibits means for passing electric currents of varying intensities through the
body of the wearer. The main improvements are three in number, and consist (1) of an
improved cell wherein the copper element entirely encloses the zinc element; (2) a
rheostat, or switch, whereby the intensity of the current may be varied according to the
requirements of the disease ; (3) flesh terminals or plates that are covered with wads of felt
and wash-leather, whereby the skin of the wearer is prevented from being blistered or other-
wise injured by the intensity of the current should the belt be worn for any length of time.”
MORE PROOF.
Mr. J. WHITHORN, 24 0 Shed, Victoria Markets,
Melb., writes :—“Just a few lines to inform you that
the Belt I grot from you about a month ago, has
simply worked WONDERS, after two years’ suffering.
Since wearing the Belt I have been entirely free from
pain ; and all the stiffness seems leaving me, and I am
convinced that by continuing its use I shall be quite
cured. Any sceptical people you can refer to me.
CAN’T DOUBT THIS.
I was so nervous and run down that I had to give
up my work and seek health. Your Belt gave me my
first relief and then cured me.
Yours truly,
JOHN KING,
Edward-st., Brisbane. Marine Department.
Write for Free Book.
To the men or women who want to regain their health, who want to feel like they did before
misfortune overtook them, we offer a book which will show you road to happiness—-a book:
which is brimful of the things you will like to read, which will give you courage and enlighten
you as to the causes and cure of your troubles. It will point out the pitfalls, and gui e y
safely to a future of strength and happiness.- It illustrated. It tells you what
others have suffered, and how they have cured themselves. It is free. We wi en ;
closely sealed, without marks, if you will send. If you are not as well as you ought to be, send
for it to-day.
Consultation and. Advice Free.
If you are close enough to call, do so, and we will gladly give you a free personal test. Yon
don’t have to buy because you call. We don’t want merely curious people, but if you areailing,
the few minutes it takes to satisfy yourself will be time well spent. Hours 9 a.m. to 8.30 p.m.
THE DR. McLAUGHLIN CO.,
85 KING STREET, STDNET.
MELBOURNE OFFICE—I67E SWANSTON STREET.—


un A BEAUTIFUL, fabric.
\ THE
;*|ouis- Velveteen.
NOTE WELL ! -Each Yard of Genuine “ LOUIS ” Velveteen
bears the name (spelled L"0"U"'l“S an d in no other
way) and Is stamped with a guarantee of wear.
I nv HOd HIVH
CEOOHD
fsd
m
$
•rlsuihhq tiy
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. ' Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATUR ALINE.
t&- For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
V 1
$
f
ca
Washington H. Soul & 00.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT
HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
Beware of
Cheap
Grain Spirits
Flavored
and
Colored
to
Imitate
Cognac
Brandy.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
&
4:*. .
«>/>
Ya
u
J
J>
d
Q
iC
c/
CIGARETTES
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
CLOTH, 300 PAGES.
BY SIXTY BULLETIN WRITERS. PRICE 4s. 6d. ; POSTAGE 6cL
Sole Distributing Agents —
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
THE BULLETIN RECITER
BY EIGHTY (80)
BULLETIN BARDS.
With Illustrations by “ Hop,” N. Lindsay, A. J. Fisher, F. Leist,
D. H. Souter, and H. McOrae. In handsome Cloth, decorated.
Sole Distributing Agents — PRICE ss. ; POSTAGE 4d.
Edwards, Dunlop & Co,, Ltd,9 Sydney and Brisbane.
df
In every section of the civilised world may be found agents
for Ruberoid, which is unequalled as an economical roofing.
128
mmgfwm
BUS
jJJ Jar jwwf t masse ,
1
.
.
RUBEROID BUILDING AT ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SHOW, SYDNEY, N.S.W'
E. RICH & CO.
LIMITED.
SYDNEY
* BRISBANE
AGENTS-
Brooks, Robinson & Co. Ltd.,
Melbourne, Vic.
A. W. Sandford & Co.,
Adelaide, S.A.
J. M. Ferguson Ltd.,
Fremantle, W.A.
Javfs W. Jack,
Wellington, N.Z,
Hedley Button,
Launceston, Tas.
£
%
£5
7*
71


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Voi. 23.—N0. 1173.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 9, 1902.
Price Id.
LET OUR SYMPATHY BE PRACTICAL!— (Var.) “PAY—PAY—PAY!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
" Australia for the A nstrnlians
Printed and Pnblislied by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Ofßce of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBE! R 1
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia anti Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
It, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent tinless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland
Owing to the imposition ofVtd. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £l 6s. 6d. per
annum,payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —] id. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland. Post Office, a special Thynne-
pa.per edition o/Tiie Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Sh tilings sterling—-with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
yon can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J F.
A u CHIB alu.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and, stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To A mateurs in, Itlacle and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
San Francisco. — L. E. Lee, Palace Hotel.
South Africa.—it. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Capetown. Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 9, 1902.
Maoriland’s New Vogel Policy.
Years ago, in the days of Julius the Jew,
Maoriland had a monumental loan-drunk,
and after it, as usual, came the great break-
up. It was a dismal time, that break-up ;
Maoriland emerged from it with a fixed reso-
lution to go on no more loan orgies, and to
hold the very name of Julius the Jew in
abhorrence—financially, at all events. Fora
while the State kept its word to some
extent. It certainly never left off borrow-
ing, but where it spent £2,229,000 of cash
that didn’t belong to it in 1881, it spent only
399,000 in 1891, and that was, at all events,
a considerable sobering up. It proved to be
only a temporary sobering up, but Maoriland
itself is the last place that is likely to hear of
that fact. The Dick Seddon country exhibits
exactly the same phenomenon as do the
States this side of the Tasman Sea. It has
gone mad-drunk again, and is firmly con-
vinced that it is a completely reformed
character. It is borrowing just as
wildly as Vogel ever did, and it
still looks back on Vogelism as a
liquor that it left off very long ago, and
as one of the sins and shocking examples
of its garish youth. The falling away has
been comparatively sudden. Maoriland was
the soberest of the seven States of Austra-
lasia only a very few years ago; for the
year just closed it has been the most
utterly intoxicated of the crowd, Westralia
only excepted. It has even, in proportion
to population, beaten the Owe’Sullivan’s
remarkable record in New South Wales,
which is saying a good deal, for the
Owe’Sullivan’s record is something beyond
the average.
* * ♦ *
Maoriland, the State which forswore
Vogelism a dozen or more years ago, closed
its financial year on 31st March, 1902, with
a public debt of £52,966,447. Roughly
speaking, that is £66 10s. per head —an
amount that is exceeded, but not much
exceeded, by three out of the seven States
of Australasia. The growth of the debt in
recent years has been after this fashion :
Debt in 1889 £38,375,050
Added in 1890 292,900
„ 1891 and 1892 .. „ 45,118
„ 1893 544,772
„ 1894 568,575
„ 1895 560,549
„ 1896 2,663,816
„ 1897 1,315,838
~ 1898 596,806
„ 1899 1,974,582
„ 1900 936,446
„ 1901 1,716,793
„ 1892 3,375,202
Debt in 1902 £52,966,447
The outburst for the year just closed repre-
sented a loan expenditure of £4 4s. per
inhabitant, and even in these parts such a
record is something uncommon. That one
year’s work was equal to 10 years’ borrowings
at the average rate which prevailed betwee'n
1889 and 1895. And it was mostly foreign
borrowing. Money is abundant in Maori-
land just now, but the people, as a rule,
scorn the moderate rate of interest paid on
State loans. So the drain on the country
for interest to be sent abroad increases con-
tinuously.
• * * •
All the precautions which characterised
Maoriland finance of a few years ago seem to
have gone overboard in one insane act. For
a number of years the carefully financed
surplus was sufficient, not pnly to pay for
unproductive but necessary works, but it
also to some extent (sometimes to a consider-
able extent) paid for productive works. For
a year or two Maoriland was the only Austral-
asian State which paid part of the cost of
new railways out of revenue, and in these
days it was the bright and shining light
among the seven States, and an example
to its dissipated brethren. This year
Treasurer Joseph Ward doesn’t see
his way to carry any sum out of
revenue to the Public Works Fund,
and he expects to be in much the same
position next year. That means that prac-
tically all the public works expenditure—
productive and unproductive alike—is to be
charged to loans. The worst State on this
side of the water, even in its worst days,
never worked the loan swindle in quite so
wholesale, or quite so glaring, a fashion.
Out of the loans for 1902-3 £450,000 is for
new rolling-stock and repairs to railways,
£450,000 for roads, tracks and bridges, and
£50,000 for “ development of goldfields”;
also defences, public buildings, lighthouses,
“rates on native lands,” and immigration
expenses come out, of loans. There is some-
thing fresh and ingenuous about the Treas-
urer who i-educes freights and fares on one
hand, while on the other borrowing money
to repair his dilapidated railroads ! Yet
even by the aid of this huge fraud, Maori-
land railways don’t quite pay interest on
their cost, and it is expected that the returns
this year, solely through the reductions made
in fares and freight-charges, will be below
those of last year.
*•* • .
Treasurer Ward, who becomes more and
more of a power in Maoriland, has developed
into a boomer of an aggressive type. And
Seddon, as he gets further and further away
from the recollections and traditions of his
dead chief, Ballance, becomes less and less
of a statesman and more and more of a use-
less, roaring and impracticable Jingo. Their
insane pride in the prosperity which Bal-
lance’s policy brought to Maoriland promises
to be their undoing, and it may be the
undoing of their State also. They begin to
regard that prosperity as an inexhaustible
spring. They granted Old Age Pensions
without making any provisions for finding
the money. They reduced the postage rate.
They cut down taxation in many directions,
and diminished railway charges, and went
into the S’African war without supplying any
extra funds to go Boer-shooting with, and
burned the candle riotously at both ends, and
melted it in the middle at the same time.
Now the result is that, if Maoriland finance
was just about as honest as that of Victoria
or South Australia (which, considering the
shocking dishonesty of public finance on this
side, wouldn’t be much to boast of) Seddon’s
State would show a very large deficit instead
of its present alleged surplus of about
£240,000. A surplus which is made by
charging practically all the unproductive
works expenditure to loans is a lie and a
fraud of the worst description.
• * * »
Almost every one of the great socialistic
ideas with which the Ballance Government
commenced its career is now being used as
an excuse for borrowing large sums of money
in England. The repurchase of large estates
for closer settlement is done, to a consider-
able extent, with money borrowed from
England. The State Land. Bank is run with
money borrowed in England—not raised
locally, as in Victoria and South Australia.
Public works are mostly done with money
borrowed in England. The Bank of
New Zealand’s capital was mostly raised in
England. Now Joseph Ward has come
to repairing his old railways with money
borrowed in England. As regards some of
these borrowings it is held that they are no
burden on the people because the enter-
prises pay their way. But almost any enter-
prise can be made to pay its way in a country
that floats loans to the amount of £4 4s. per
inhabitant in a single year, though plenty of
enterprises would cease to pay as soon as
that artificial stimulus was withdrawn.
Whether the foreign loan money is spent on
productive works or on unproductive works,
the drain on the country at large in the way
of exporting interest remains the same.
Maoriland just now doesn’t feel the drain, for
ever since 1898 it has borrowed more than
enough to pay the interest with ; bub it must
feel it by-and-bye, for the easy borrowing
process can’t go on for ever. Maoriland can
stand the ill effects of a boom better than
any other Australasian State ; its fertility,
its splendid Protective system, and the
fact that its socialistic policy has led to a
more general diffusion of wealth than in
most countries, will all tend to break its fall
when the fall comes. As to the coming of
the fall there is little room for doubt. A
country can hardly be on the pinnacle of the
second highest loan boom in Australasia
without dropping off by-and-bye.
• * • *
This new resurrection of the policy of
Julius the Jew has even less excuse than
the average boom policy. It is almost
wholly the work of the last four years, and
mainly of the last two years. The big loan of
1896 was partly a sudden and special effort
to save the Bank of New Zealand from ex-
tinction, and mostly a raising of money to
found the State Land Bank ; it certainly
wasn’t part of a definite policy of passing the
bill for non-productive public works on to
posterity. When the new swindle really began
Maoriland was the most prosperous State in
Australasia—the one least in need of being
temporarily propped up by desperate 1.0. U.
devices. It was so rich that it could have
started its State Bank and its Land Resump-
tion policy out of its own resources. It had
already tried in a small way the self-reliant
policy of constructing its railways out of
revenue, and was making some headway.
It had sworn off Vogklism more definitely,
and with a more intense swear, than any
other State in these parts. But the memo-
ries of Ballance’s self-reliant policy were
growing dim with years. Seddon went
crazed in his old age, and dropped the
politics of his own country to go whirling
the Jingo axe and bellowing insanely for
Blood. Ward was a boomster by nature
and a speculator by training. And a de-
ranged public was so busy singing “Rule
Britannia” that it didn’t watch either of its
leaders ; and so the old Vogel disease came
back to Maoriland when nobody was looking.
If things go on at the present pace, Maoriland’s
great policy of State Socialism will become
so inextricably mixed up with the big foreign-
loan disease that no one will be able to tell
for certain which was which. The same
parasite grows on practically every policy in
this country. There has been Protection
and big loans, also Revenue Tariffism and
bigger loans, semi - Freetrade and very
large loans, State Socialism and steadily
increasing loans. There have been loans
without any policy, but it is so long since
any Australasian Government had a fixed
idea of any kind, without borrowing a large
sum of money to celebrate the fact, that the
date of the episode is practically forgotten.
The Perils of the Worker.
In the battle for a livelihood, the seaman and the
coal-miner hold the most dangerous posts. This
fact has been brought home to Australians during
the last few days by two great calamities: The
Quiraing, with 22 souls on board, has been
definitely given up as lost; and at Mt. Kembla
some 90 miners have been killed by an explosion
of gas and the subsequent formation of poisonous
fumes. It will be a public wrong if the greater of
these tragedies is allowed to push from memory
the lesser ; and if, in either, any degree of investi-
gation likely to lead to a disclosure of the truth is
spared. The point which is to be cleared in each
case is whether the tragedy was absolutely un-
avoidable, whether all the precautions that human
skill and foresight could suggest were taken to
avoid disaster.
* * * *
It is obvious that going to sea in ships will
always be attended with some degree of risk.
Circumstances which no degree of care and
prudence could have provided for will occasionally
arise, and a great sacrifice of life be made to the
violence of the elements or to some sorry jest of
Fate. A ship well-found, well-engined, well-
manned, loaded with proper regard for her carry- ’
ing capacity, and managed with all possible skill
and precaution, will sometimes founder, be
wrecked or burned. Let it be clearly ascertained
that in the case of the Quiraing there was in no
respect a neglect of any of the measures against
disaster which human skill can devise, and then
there is no more to be said. The unavoidable
happenings of Fate maybe mourned ; they cannot
be guarded against. If, however, there was
neglect or rashness in any particular, let that fact
be established, and any possible steps be
taken to avoid such happenings in the future.
The sailor’s life has quite enough of natural
risk, without human neglect adding to it
one iota. The Bulletin does not suggest that,
in regard to the Quirang, there was any neglect of
reasonable precaution, but asks for the fullest
investigation, to settle the matter beyond doubt.
* * * *
Similarly, in respect to the mournful calamity
at Mt. Kembla. It may be that all steps which
human reason and skill could suggest were taken
to secure the safe working of the mine ; and that
similar mines may be in future worked under
similar conditions, without further risk to human
lives than Fate ordains. The law of destiny over-
rules all things, and may not be questioned. But
outside of that, there is an offending which brings
down “sorrows outside of destiny.” In face of such
happenings.as that recently at Martinique, there
is no room for human questioning. We can
neither foresee nor foreguard them. In coal-
mining, as in other mining, there will occasionally
be a cruel freak of Fate, impossible to provide
against. But was the Kembla disaster of such a
nature, or was there contributory human negli-
gence ? That is the point on which there must
be strict inquiry.
• • » *
Mt. Kembla colliery was said to be “absolutely
free ” from “gas,” and for that reason was worked,
as most other New South Wales mines are worked,
with the aid of naked lights. But for a coal-pit
to be “ absolutely free ” from inflammable gas is a
state of affairs which is recognised to be somewhat
abnormal and liable at any time to be disturbed.
So precautions are taken (and the law directs
them to be taken) for the careful daily testing of
the atmosphere in a coal-mine. Theoretically
these precautions should be sufficient to guard
against the risk of any accumulation of dangerous
quantities of coal-gas. Practically, in the Mt.
Kembla case, they were not. Whether that
was due to any neglect of the procedure
enjoined by the law, or to an inherent defi-
ciency in the procedure, is the point at issue.
If there was neglect of the precautions prescribed
by the law, a very serious punishment should be
inflicted On the persons responsible.. If the pre-
cautions are in themselves insufficient to guard
against the possibility of another such disaster,
then the Legislature must set about reconsidering
the whole question of coal-mines regulation. Even
should it be necessary to compel the universal use
of the safety lamp, all human precaution must
be taken against another wholesale sacrifice of
life.
* * * *
Experience teaches that in this regard precau-
tion must be not only made, mqst stringent and
particular, but drawn up under the presumption
that the workers, whose safety is sought to be
guarded, will themselves in no way co-operate in
the efforts made on their behalf. So bitter is the
struggle for existence, so reckless does the fear of
hunger make men, that the miner and the seaman
will, without protest, incur preventable danger;
will co-operate with an employer in disregard-
ing precautions prescribed by law ; and even defy
both the law and the employers’ regulations,, to
take absolutely unnecessary risk. Coal-mining
and shipping regulations have therefore to be
framed as much to protect the men against them-
selves as to protect them against any danger
caused by the greed of the employer. The present
laws may be sufficient, and may be administered
wfth proper diligence and care. But it is the
business of the State Government to presume that
such is not the case, in view of these two disasters.
The Quiraing and Mt. Kembla arraign the ship-
ping and coal-mining laws and their administra-
tion. They must be treated —these laws as
systems accused by two great tragedies, and re-
quired to clear themselves, if they can. If they
cannot, there should be prompt punishment of any
human carelessness, if that be responsible;
prompt reform of the law, if it be at fault.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Two jewel experts who have examined the regalia to
be used at the Coronation of England’s Sovereign have
made the discovery that nearly one-half the “gems” in
the regalia are spurious. Nearly all the large stones have
been replaced by imitations. The discovery confirms the
statements made in various memoirs that Queen Vic-
toria’s two immediate predecessors, William IV. and
George IV., resorted to the expedient of selling or pawn-
ing the Crown jewels when they found themselves in
financial difficulties. It is said that King Edward refuses
to be crowned with paste jewels, and has ordered that
imitation stones in the regalia be replaced by real gems,
for whose temporary possession he will pay. The utmost
secrecy is maintained concerning the crowns the King
and Queen will wear at the Coronation ; no one has been
permitted even to see them. The English Crown regalia
was estimated to be worth many millions before the two
experts made the discovery. The regalia is kept care-
fully guarded in the Tower.— Daily Paper item.
The Lewis-Bird House Tax.
Tasmanian Premier Lewis’s house-tax, which he
calls an income-tax (probably the only one on
earth that is absolutely without exemptions) and
which he proposes instead of the ordinary
income-tax, on the ground that the latter
is “inquisitorial,” is nominally, Bd. in the £.
But by valuing the house worth less than
£lO a year at £5O, and the £lO house at £6O, and
the £3O house at £2lO, and the £4O house at £320,
and the £6O house at £540, and the £BO house at
£BOO, it really goes as high as 6s. Bd. in the £, or
even more. For instance, the person living
in a hovel worth £2 a year will pay
on £5O (50 times Bd. = £1 13s. 4d.), which
is 16s. Bd. in the £. The proposed impost
is really a most erratic kind of property-tax
Koliinoor and Cohenoor.
They found the crown was bogus and the sacred
gaud was brass,
And they ask each other sadly how the po.-tent
came to pass.
They found the ancient symbol was a sham, just
like the things
It, represents—the holy, heaven-created rights of
* kings,
The dignity that comes of being someone’s Eldest
Son,
The grease which constitutes a man God’s own
Anointed one ;
How can these dreams and vanities and pomps
seem real, alas !
When some fool inspects the crown, and finds the
crown itself is brass ?
They found the crown was bogus, and its precious
gems were glass,
Oh, the people may be dull and slow, like
Issachak, the ass,
Bearing weighty loads in silence; yet the time
must surely come
When it isn’t safe to tell them that the diadem
is “ brum.”
For the crown and orb and sceptre, and the long-
tailed robe of state
Are the outward signs and symbols of the inward
potentate,
And the dream begins to vanish and the show to
fade like grass
When the pageant is inspected and its top is < n'y
glass.
They found the crown was bogus and the fetish
was but gas,
Built on cant and pride and prejudice and dreams
of caste and class.
For ages and for ages men have fought and bled
and died,
And their souls and treasures wasted for that
emblem deified.
It has stood for all things kingly—and the tale
that comes to-day
Shows it bogus, eronk, dishonest in a truly king-
like way.
O dust and bones of ages, from Quebec to Khyber
Pass !
What you died for was a fat man topped-off with
a bit of glass !
JAMES EDMOND.


on one kind of property only. It seems to be
called an income-tax to prevent it falling
on the landlord so long as there is a tenant to put
it on. The occupier is supposed to pay it as a tax
on his income, said income being roughly guessed
at according to the kind of house he lives in,
whereas if it was called straight out a tax on the
house itself the burden might ultimately settle
down on the owner of the property—which is a
thing to be avoided in Tasmania. Why a man’s
income should be judged solely by the size
of his house instead of partly by the size of his dog
it is hard to say. A poor man with 12 children
needs a good-sized house, while a rich man with
none doesn’t, and the former can’t afford to be
specially penalised. The income-tax may be
inquisitorial, but any number of people would
rather give full information about their incomes
than run against Treasurer Bird’s house-tax. An
ordinary tax-payer named Smith may object to
tell Bird his income, but when Bird proposes to
get over that by telling Smith what Smith’s own
income is, he will probably object quite as much.
Anyhow, Great Britain has had an income-tax for
many years, and when Lewis and Bird say this
British institution is not a fair one they are
reflecting on the mother country in a way that is
worthy of pro-Boers of the deepest dye. Great
Britain also has a house-tax, but it ranges from
2d. to 9d. in the £ and every house under £2O
annual value is exempt. The villainous Lewis-
Bird idea of demanding £1 13s. 4d. per annum
from the poorest old widow who has a roof above
her head isn’t British anyhow. It isn’t Boer
either. It is Gehenna—which is the same as Sheol.
♦
Coast Coffins.
“Shellback” to The Bulletin about a serious
shipping malpractice:
The custom of piling- up the decks of Western-bound
coasting vessels is increasing to such an extent in the
Eastern ports of Australia that soon both officers and
crews will be compelled to camp around the funnel for
want of other sleeping space.
Legal provision exists in all the States to prevent any
vessel from leaving port in an unseaworthy condition,
yet weekly, if not daily, ships clear out of our ports with
scarcely a vestige of deck-space visible. Horse and cattle
stalls fore and aft, fodder and sundries on hatches, in-
flammable and dangerous cargo, such as acids, &c.,
stowed in any spare corner and under boats where horses
cannot be housed. Small wonder, therefore, in the
frequency of gruesome reports from W.A. of the arrival
of such-and-such a ship with the loss of so many head of
stock. “ Mountainous seas that thundered on board at
frequent intervals,” and all that sort of thing, has become
monotonous in its iteration.
Some occult influence must be at work behind the
scenes, when so-called shipping inspectors allow this
dangerous practice to go on under their very noses. It
is useless for them to plead ignorance, in the face of what
is patent to any wharfside lounger ; and, indeed, this is
one of the abuses with which they are supposed specially
to concern themselves. Reform from within the ranks
of sailormen is, under present circumstances, impossible,
since the first word of protest would have to come from
the shipmaster. And his hands are tied, because with
him it is a question of “billet” v. “bullet.” So he
stands by and curses inwardly till his distance from port
allows him to unburden his soul—heartily backed up by
his subordinates. It is not fresh legislation that is
required, but the vigorous enforcement of the legal
provisions already in existence.
4
Australian Defence.
Mr. Brodrick is evidently not so cute a politician
as Mr. Chamberlain. The latter, having invited
the representatives of “ the colonies ” to come into
his parlor and discuss, in a friendly fashion,
certain matters, found that all but Mr. Seddon
knew that “ certain matters ” meant methods of
fettering and plans of bleeding, and politely re-
fused. Whereupon he convened an enthusiastic-
ally friendly meeting outside the web, at which
vague expressions of good-will and friendship
were the order of the day, and the harmony was
not disturbed by the sight of a single Imperial
lancet. But Mr. Brodrick was crude in his
methods. He came to the representatives of the
colonies with a proposal that they should consent
to the formation in the over-sea dependencies of
Britain, of reserves for the English army, to
be drawn upon for service whenever call came
from India, or Africa, or Europe. The repre-
sentatives said emphatically “No” and the Im-
perialistic idea received a rude shock. England
must now recognise that Australia and Canada
are only willing to give war-help, after judging
the merits of the war, and then in purely volun-
tary fashion. Not a soldier will be pledged
beforehand. Had Mr. Brodrick the political
instinct of Mr. Chamberlain, he would have
avoided evoking so straight a declaration and,
by not bringing forward proposals which would
not be accepted, have left the position in a state
of uncertainty. Imperialism was poorly served but
Australia much aided by Mr. Brodrick’s mistake.
If a war were to be entered upon by England next
year, in which Australia was unwilling to take part,
her reluctance could not be attacked on the plea of
any “implied understanding,” any “unexpressed
agreement.” Australia’s relations with the War
Ofßce have been made as clear and definite as
possible. The Bulletin is glad to be able in this
matter to praise the unexpected firmness of Mr.
Barton, whose attitude throughout the Colonial
Conference debates has been an agreeable surprise
to Australians. _ They have had in the past dis-
quieting experience of strong men going from
these shores and being attacked by a sudden weak-
ness m the back and knees as soon as London was
reached. In Edmund Barton’s case that ex-
perience has been reversed.
When Suppression is a Virtue.
The daily papers of Australia know how to
suppress when it suits their book. They can and
do absolutely ignore the existence of opinions and
persons antagonistic to their ideas of things. It
can only be concluded, therefore, that the remark-
able degree of publicity which is being given to
sectarian squabbles in the Australian daily press
(and more particularly the Sydney press) indicates
a wish that the old, disreputable, heathenish row
in the name of God between Orange and Green,
should be revived to the breaking of heads and the
confounding of progressive politics. The daily
papers may pretend that it is their duty,
as reporters to the public of all that is
interesting, to put on record the frothings
of sectarian bigots. But seeing liow com-
pletely they lose sight of their duty when it is
a question of smothering any expressions of
opinion distasteful to the commercial and adver-
tising classes, such an explanation of the publica-
tion of speeches, “ calculated to cause a breach of
the peace,” is very thin. Suppression would be a
virtue, in the cause of public peace and political
progress, when a Cardinal from his Cathedral or a
Boanerges from his Bethel soils his mouth with
the advocacy of sectarian bigotry and religious
persecution. But the daily papers, in Sydney
particularly, industriously publish every such
utterance j the more mischievous it is likely to
prove the more fully it is reported. The object
they have in view will probably be fully disclosed
when the next general election comes on.
The Allegedly Bogus Crown.
The news has drifted out this way that the British
crown was overhauled some time ago, with a view
to Edward Vll. ’s coronation, the result being
that about half the gems proved to be merely
paste. There were real gems there once, but
where they have gone to, or how long it is since
they went there, wherever the place may be, no
one knows. The late Queen V ictoria’s grand-
father was a sordid agricultural king with a
miser’s instinct; and one of her uncles was a gam-
bling and hard-drinking king who lived in a night-
mare of unpaid bills; and another uncle was a
silly king with a large illegitimate family and a
shabby umbrella; and both uncles had many
ladies to support. Possibly it was one of that
trio who stole round to the pawnshop with the
sacred emblem after dark; or possibly the Evil
Deed dates further back —or further forward.
What the full extent of the damage may be no
one knows ; even the Cohen-oor may have gone to
Cohen, and been replaced by a bogus glare like the
front lamp of the Crown-street tram-car, and
other historic gems may now be on Abraham’s
bosom. It is a deeply sorrowful tale. The Crown
is the emblem of Royal authority. Our waste
lands are said to belong to the Crown—and now it
seems it was a dishonest and bunkum crown. Our
Supply Bill is supposed to be money granted to
the Crown—and now it would appear that the
Crown can’t always be trusted with its own
valuables. It is nominally the Crown which re-
fuses, after serious moral consideration, to pardon
the convicted embezzler—and there is a dark
suspicion that the Crown had its own dishonorable
and fraudulent pawn-ticket in its tail-pocket when
it refused. British history is spotted all over with
the narrative of men who stood by the Crown to
the bitter end, and if the Crown wouldn't stand
by itself, but fled surreptitiously round the corner
and swapped itself for a bit of glass, then their
lives were wasted in a bad cause. The watchword
of the unadulterated loyalist has been that we
should revere the Throne and Person, and now it
would be a fair thing to have the Throne itself
inspected by competent plumbers to make sure
that the Person hasn’t made away with part of
that also. It is a time of suspicion and moral
upheaval, and no man knows for certain what
may happen next. The crown itself doesn’t
amount to much beyond the fact that it would
make a good salt-cellar if turned upside down.
It is a survival, like the sword of Othman, with
which the new Sultan is still girt, though the
sword is of little value nowadays, and the Sultan
needs badly to be girt with a big Krupp gun if he
is to hold his place among rulers. But the crown
is an emblem, and to hear that its purity and
genuineness have been aspersed is like unto a
rumor that the twelve apostles were adulterated
and the primitive church was a bogus article and
mixed with chicory. When stories like that get
about, the royal tradition is beginning to decay at
the top. The present rumor hints at low, under-
hand habits among the royal ancestors —larceny
as a bailee and such-like. It speaks of things
that are better forgotten—sordid debts, rapacious
and immoral females demanding money, kings
drinking more than was good or dignified, to nerve
themselves for the base and sinful deed, and hook-
nosed persons admitted secretly by the back door
to haggle over the heirlooms and paw the sacred
symbols. It calls up visions of unclean hands
laid on large, crumpled shirt-fronts in the royal
presence, as S9I.OMON and Isaacs declared they
couldn’t conscientiously give the price asked, or
anything like it. It is full of possibilities of
royalty being afterwards confidentially winked at
with impunity by obscene parties “ in the know.”
Even the House of Peers falls under suspicion,
for if the dealer wouldn’t give the price demanded
a title may have been thrown in to clinch the
bargain. There are possibilities everywhere, and
none of them are pleasant or dignified possi-
bilities.
+
Bird Tires of Drifting 1 .
Treasurer Bird, of Tasmania, sticks a partially-
honest beak into a tender spot:—
I do not think it at ail likely that our financial concerns
will adjust themselves; I mean that under the normal
operation of the existing Federal customs tariff and of the
post and telegraph service we cannot reasonably expect
any marked increase in our revenue from those sources
either during 1903 or any early succeeding year ; and,
consequently, we cannot hope that the deficiencies of the
present will be covered by surpluses in the near future.
Nor can we look for any such increase in our revenue
from existing State sources as would tend to bring about
a speedy balance in our revenue and expenditure
accounts. It is necessary, therefore, that we take some
action, unless, indeed, we are content to drift with an
annually increasing deficiency for some years to come.
There are some, who preach this gospel of drift as the best
policy during the first few years of Federation. “ Fund
the annual deficiency,” these statesmen say, “ and
trust to the Federal Parliament and a beneficent posterity
to relieve us of these burdens in years to come.” But to
bear no part of the burden ourselves ; to do nothing to
provide for the continually accumulating deficiency,
would be, I think, a most unstatesmanlike course to
adopt. The people of to-day should be required to bear
some fair share of the financial burdens which are the
price of the benefits they enjoy ; and therefore, now that
we are discovering how far our revenue under Federation
falls short of our expenditure, it is absolutely necessary
that we should at once make some effort towards parti-
ally, if not wholly, equalising our revenue and expendi-
ture accounts.
This sounds well and good. But any intelligent
person can’t help remembering that Mr. Bird has
long been a member of a Parliament that
easily comes first in thriftlessness and stands pre-
eminent among the federated Legislatures in the
matter of passing the bill on to posterity. The
Tas. Parliament, of which Bird has been more or
less the recognised financial authority and critic
for more years than are easily remembered, has
managed to spend a far greater proportion of loan
money on unproductive works than any other in
the Commonwealth. Its record shows about
£8,500,000 borrowed, and about £4,000,000 snent
on railways, telegraphs, and other productive
works. The other £4,500,000 has been splashed:
up in building and repairing culverts, roads,,
jetties that have long since been washed away, in
State aid to religion, immigration that failed,
loans to local bodies that were never honest
enough to tax themselves for repayment, defences
that are positively dangerous to the defenders,
salaries of officials, of road-menders, and
provender for hungry British Governors. The
cheerfulness with which the debt for all these
things has been passed on to posterity is the one
outstanding fact that will make Tas. finances-
famous in the time to come. Already the man
who is asked to pay taxes in order to meet the
interest of money spent on a culvert which had
rotted away before he was born is begin-
ning to say unpleasant and disrespectful things-
about his hereditary Dobsons and Fyshes and
Birds. And there is no ghost or vestige or sem-
blance of improvement in this direction in Bird’s
programme. His idea of putting the finances
straight is that, after practically all the necessary
but temporary and unproductive works have been
charged to loans, the revenue should be made to
cover the rest of the outgoings. The fact that the
old system is a silly and disgraceful swindle and
the high road to financial Tophet hasn’t struck '
Bird on the tail feathers yet. And it isn’t, at all
likely that it will do so till the State’s credit give 3
out. Bird simply resolves to sober-up and not
take more than 16 drinks a day.
♦
The prospects of a strike of engine-drivers and
firemen on the Victorian railways are just now a
bright red. The drivers and firemen have a
strong association, and have indicated their inten-
tion of resisting to the end any attempt to make
the railway-men find the money squandered by
politicians on fireworks for the little Duke and
contingents to S’Africa. The quarrel of the public
servant with the Government on this score is a
just one. Why should the public servant always
have to make up the deficit—caused, as a rule, by
weak-kneed, kowtowing politicians stealing the
Eublic funds to glorify themselves and their am-
itious wives? The deficit in Victoria for last
year may run into about £500,000, and the
State finances will never be got into decent
condition until Australians realise (1) that
their country, being young and undeveloped,
cannot afford to spend tons of money on
fripperies for the benefit of a privileged class;
and (2) that the “poor farmer” is getting at the
rest of the community in a shameless way. The
“poor farmer” pays only the same tax per head as is
paid by the artisan and city clerk. But while the
artisan and the clerk receives little in return, the
“poor farmer” has his contributions handed back
to him with interest added. Government makes
the roads for the “poor farmer,” and takes him
water, for which he promises to pay, but never
does. The “ poor farmer’s ” grain and other pro-
duce is carried at a loss on the railways ; which
loss has to be made up to a large extent by the
suburban fares, which the artisan and the city
man have to pay.
♦
At Northam (W.A.) police court, on June 4,
there was heard a remarkable case. A man was
charged with using insulting language to one
Agnes Dongle, a half-caste. Another man, a
returned contingenter, was also charged, under
section 55, with asserting himself to be a police
constable. Both pleaded “ not guilty,” and were
defended by Mr. Lyon. _ The cases were heard
together. The evidence given by three half-caste
girls (unpublishable in detail) was to the effect
that both defendants came to their camp and
behaved most indecently. The first man took one
of them away, and, returning, boasted that he had
criminally assaulted her. The other man repre-
sented himself as a policeman. The first man, it
was averred, then made an attempt, assisted by
the other, to criminally assault another of the
girls. The report of the case, from Northam
Advertiser, concludes: —
No evidence was called for the defence, and after Mr.
Lyon had addressed the Bench, the Resident Magistrate
(Mr. F. R. Barslee) fined the first man 10s., with 4s. 6d.
costs, or three days’ imprisonment; and the other, £l,
with 4s. 6d. costs, or seven days’ imprisonment.
There is on the business-paper of the House of
Representatives a notice by Mr. Mahon :
That, with a view to determine the expediency or
otherwise of amending section 51, sub-section 26, of the
Constitution Act by the omission of the words “other
than the aboriginal race of any State,” it is, in the opinion
of this House, desirable that a Royal Commission should
be appointed to investigate and report.—
(1) On the condition of the aboriginal inhabitants of
Western Australia north of the 30th parallel of latitude.
(2) On the system by which aboriginal natives are
assigned and indentured to white employers.
(3) On the administration of justice in the lower courts
of Western Australia in so far as the aboriginal inhabi-
tants of that State are, or have been, affected thereby.
Seeing that England has just concluded a long
and most expensive war against the Boers in
S’Africa on the pretext (in part) of Boer miscon-
duct in regard to the rule of the native races, the
Australian Parliament had better hurry along
with that Royal Commission, or an invading
army may be yet landed at Albany. The Bul-
letin does not remember anything quite so
scandalous in the maladministration of justice
alleged against the Boers, even by the most rabid
of the pro-Gore party, as this charging of men
straightly accused of criminal outrage with “in-
sulting behaviour.”
♦
The old, lazy-going, easy-going, self-satisfying
sophistry once more (Sydney Telegraph, 10th
July):
Nobody, as far as we are aware, has found fault with
the Government for constructing railways or other public
works for which there was a genuine reproductive de-
mand in the country. And if there are such works wait-
ing to be carried out now, there is no reason why the
Minister should slacken his hand with regard to them.
In enterprises of that kind borrowed money can always
be invested with safety and profit.
The italicised clause is one of this country’s
pleasant opium dreams—one from which it will
have a very bad awakening b.y-and-bye. Some
reasons why it is a dream are these :
(1.) A work is reproductive if the people have the money
to pay for it —not otherwise. There are works which
would pay on their own merits. There are works which
wouldn’t pay on their own merits, but which would
pay in the boom created by the annual expendi-
ture of £2,000,000 of foreign loan money. There are
some more that would pay in the bigger boom created by
the yearly expenditure of £3,000,000 foreign loans ; some
more still that would pay in the further boom of
£4,000,000, and another lot yet that would pay with the
expenditure of £5,000,000 annually of foreign loans.
(2.) And if the Owe’Sullivan got the annual expendi-
ture of foreign loan money up to £20,000,000 for a year or
two the people would be so temporarily bloated with loan
wealth that probably a big opera house at Menindie or
'Walsrett would be a reproductive work for the time being
—that is to say, the people there would have enough of
Owe’Scjlli van’s loan money in their pockets to support an
•opera house.
(3.) So because a work may pay in the temporary bogus
affluence created by loans, it is held to be justifiable to
float loans to pay for that work.
*
The report that Milner is resigning the High
Commissionership in S’Africa is countenanced by
the sudden transfer of Gov. Lawley from West-
ralia to the Transvaal. Milner, before “ bar-
racking,” even unofficially, for the suspension of
the Cape Constitution, should have remembered
that, in serving a man like Chamberlain, too
much zeal may be worse than too little. When
the war was young, and there was some reason to
expect a decisive victory, it might seem proper to
apportion the spoils as seemed good to the con-
queror; but now, with only half a victory, no
“unconditional surrender,” no wholesale banish-
ments and confiscations—and with the wife of
Steyn receiving a presentation of 1000 sovereigns
from the ladies of Capetown (whose husbands and
brothers, according to the lying cables, whoop for
suspension)—Milner has surely become impos-
sible. He, the enthusiastic advocate of war to the
knife, now finds himself committed in writing to a
piece of illegal violence. A man who has declared
publicly that the Cape Colony Constitution ought
to be suspended cannot with any decency continue
as High Commissioner with the Constitution in
full blast in spite of him.
*
To give the lie to the repeated declarations of the
Vic. Employers’ Federation that all employers
disapprove of the Factories Act, several of them
•earnestly besought the Inquiry Commission to
recommend their being brought into the fold of
non-sweating trades forthwith. These were
“white” laundry-proprietors. They told a
moving tale of the persistent increase of the Chow
washee-man—there are 126 more of him than there
were four years ago, while the “white” linen-
scourers only increased by 103; also of the law-
breaking honorary magistrate who fines the
Buddhist Is. for working his employees 20 hours a
day, thus enabling that unclean sweater to
laugh at the law. But their strongest com-
plaint was against the alleged charitable
institutions working with a Govt, subsidy
without restrictions and paying little or no wages,
such as the Elizabeth Fry Retreat, the Abbots-
ford Convent, and the Salvarmy Home at Bruns-
wick. All these grapple with the case of the
fallen woman, her regeneration, and the expia-
tion of her “sin ”; and if the moral improvement
infused into her soul is proportionate to the
amount of work she does (gratis) then she ought
to be an angel in about three months.
: ♦
Melb. Argus published an article lately on the
labor situation in S’Africa, which derives its
interest mainly from half a thousand articles the
Argus published during the Boer war guaran-
teeing the absolute purity of all the motives
at the back of the war on the British
side. The European miner was to be particularly
blessed in being freed from the horrors of
Krugerism, and given his vote and all the other
sacred privileges of British enlightenment. Now,
in sorrow and anger, the Argus draws attention
to the fact that the Rand Association offers ss. a
day for white workers, and white workers have
declared they’ll see the Rand Association blasted
first. Alack lit is too late in the day to blast the
Rand Association, the white workers having
wasted their strength and spilt their blood to
destroy their friend, Oom Paul, and set their
enemy, Cohen alias the R. A., in an impregnable
position. “ The circumstance that the men must
work with Kaffirs aggravates the position.” Says
the Argus, furthermore :
The Rand mine-owners are now searching Africa for
cheap colored labor, and it will be interesting to note
whether, with a great body of white men wanting work
on the field, their policy will pass without protest. It
will surprise few observers if a great deal of social suffer-
ing and trouble comes in quick succession to the racial
strife happily ended.
‘ Oh, what a difference in the morning ! ”
Polynesian Inspector Rannie furnishes particu-
lars to the Piiilp Govt, of condition of S.S.
Islanders in Bundaberg district, as follows :
Two are grocers, paying rentals of 12s. a week ; another
is a boardinghouse-keeper, and has £2OO in the Govt.
Savings Bank. Another sent last year £lOO worth of
goods to missionary friends in S.S. Islands. Another is
married to a white woman, and has four horses and a
dray, etc.
All the above alleged arguments against a whole-
sale deportation of Kanakas are also most power-
ful reasons why Australia should stop importing
colored competitors into her territory. Formerly
we were told the Kanaka could be imported with
impunity because he was restricted to plantation
work; now we are told we can’t possibly deport him
because he’s not engaged in mere plantation work,
but is a respectable citizen, paying rent, having a
balance in the bank, engaged in commercial life,
and (most marvellous reason of all) is married to a
white woman and is raising a family of half-castes.
The prospective stoppage of the great half-caste
industry in Bananaland is a grievous matter in the
eyes of the Piiilp Govt., and causes that same
Govt, to curse the Barton Cabinet unto seventy
times seven, and to talk ferociously of secession
and rebellion, with Philp for Jefferson Davis.
The Amending Wills Act, introduced into Yic,
Leg. Assembly by M.’sL. A. Bailes and Lawson,
is remindful of nothing so much as the futile
gentleman who went to great trouble and expense
to sweep up the sand in the Sahara with a hand-
brush and dust-pan. He raised a tremendous
dust—and that was all. Bailes’ bill merely pro-
vides that, no matter how a testator husband
devises his property, his widow shall be entitled
to at least one-third of the estate. It is some-
thing, but so little as to be hardly worth the
bother. What is wanted is an Act empowering
the Supreme Court to upset any will it thought
unfair and to award, out of a deceased husband’s
estate, reasonable means of support to widow and
minor children. Also, such an Act should restrict
thecharitable tendencies of departing husbandsina
drastic manner; it wouldn’t be going too far to
restrict charitable bequests to, at most, one-tenth
of the estate. Any man who regularly gave to a
hospital or a church one-tenth of his wages would
be regarded as sufficiently generous ; if more, he
would be reckoned lavish ; if he did it only by
robbing his wife and children, he would be con-
sidered a scoundrel. Yet the law allows a dead
man to carry out tricks and capers it sternly
represses in a live one. The Law’s respect for the
dead is a stupendous circumstance compared with
its regard for the living.
*
Yio. Inspector of Lunatic Asylums, in his annual
report, once more girds at their present farcical
system of management. He wants means to
remove consumptive patients from general
asylums, receiving-houses, special provision for
nervous diseases at hospitals, and improved
accommodation for curable patients.. Also, he
says, “ the present inducements are insufficient to
attract and retain officers with high training
and ability—especially matrons,” “ the Victorian
lunatic asylums are in many ways below the
modern standard,” and “the fact that the patho-
logical interests of the asylums are in the hands
of the Crown Law Department results in their
pathology remaining undeveloped.” Lunacy is
greatly on the increase in Victoria, which is not
surprising in a State that consigns the pathology
of lunacy to the Crown Law Department.
♦
War is already brewing between Minister Bent
and the Victorian railway employees. The short,
thick Thomas has Rip van Winkled all these last
20 years, and is quite unfit to deal with a large
body of men like the railway-workers. The loud
answer that turneth away peace is always in his
mouth, and he is grumpy, arrogant and offensive.
He threatens one day to “deal’’with the men
who object to his retrenchment policy, and the
next says sourly that he will take no notice of
“ yelling curs,” which means that he isn’t going to
deal with them. His suggestion that mutiny in
the railway service should be treated like the same
thing in the army, and the offender taken out and
shot, isn’t calculated to preserve order. Bent’s
temper was soured through stooping down to pick
cabbages in his youth and standing up to float
land banks in his middle age. He isn’t mentally
graceful in either attitude. Now, in his old age,
he is sitting in a Ministerial chair in a bear-like
frame of mind, without factor dignity, and trying
to run 2000 miles of railway on public-house
chucker-out principles.


The EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
of the United States.
FINANCIAL STATEMENT
FOB YEAR ENDING 31st DECEMBER, 1901.
ASSETS
INCREASE IN ASSETS
SURPLUS
INCREASE IN SURPLUS
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
INCREASE IN ASSURANCE IN FORCE ..
THE NEW BUSINESS EXCEEDED THAT OF 1900 by ...
£68,966.608
£5,508,678
£14,797,717
£1,039,973
£245,682,651
> £13,000,360
£8,088,718
LOCAL DIRECTORS:
Sir WM. M MILLAN, K.0.M.G., Chairman ; Hon. O. K. MACKELLAR, MB ML O •
F. NORTON MANNING, Esq., M.D. ’ U ‘ ’
O, CARLIBLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
S. W. JD’ARCY IRVINE, F.S.S.,
F. 0. COWLEY, Secretary. Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Iris.”
Lyceum “ With Flying Colors.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Palace “ San Toy.”
Criterion “ The Lady Slavey."
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ Sweet Nell of Old Drury.”
Her Majesty’s “A Runaway Girl.”
Theatre Royal... .... “ The Worst Woman in London.”
Buou. <« Cyrano de Bergerac.”
Opera House. ; . Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Gaiety Theatre Dan Barry's Dramatic 00.
+ —^
The new Pinero play of “ Iris," staged at
Sydney Royal on Saturday, is a great work. As
a tragedy it even “lays oyer” “Mrs. Tanqueray.”
If it had struck Australia in a less stony day and
impecunious generation it would be a notable
financial success, for even Pinero never con-
structed a_ story on more artistic lines. His
heroine, Iris, is a rich and noble-hearted widow
of 25, forbidden by the will of a soured departed
to marry again under pain of losing her fortune,
blie is a universal friend and Lady Bountiful.
Also she wants to marry young Trenwith, who
has no money and no prospects, and who is about
to “go on the land ” in British Columbia, and has
only a tall figure and a dress suit and the prospect
of a log hut to offer as an equivalent for the for-
tune that would be lost through their marriage.
And middle-aged financier Maldonado wants to
marry her, and offers her money enough to make
the lost fortune of no account. They are both
good enough men, but Iris engages herself to Mal-
donado in sheer terror lest she may lose hold on
herself through her love for Trenwith, and go on
the land. And it is no sooner done than she repents
of her haste and breaks the engagement; and curses
grow up like tall trees in the financier’s hitherto
kindly heart. Then the trusted old family solicitor,
Gentleman One, goes off with everything, and
reduces poor Lady Bountiful and many of her
friends to poverty. So she engages herself to
Trenwith, having now little to lose, and that nice,
tall_ young man goes on the land. Iris promises
to live in brave and honest poverty on the £3 a
week that remains to her till the log hut is built
in British Columbia.
* * • *
Unhappily, she has never learned to live
on £3 a week, and she gets through all the capital
m a few months. Then she sinks down to utter
want, and Maldonado haunts her—a Mephis-
topheles with a cheque-book-till the end of it all
is a richly-furnished flat and a Past, and a broken
woman in rich raiment, with Maldonaldo’s cheque-
book like a mountain on her head. And at this
crisis, the good that is in Maldonaldo, but which
has been suffocated by his millions and his sense
of injury, comes to the top again. He repents of
his revenge, and again asks the fallen Lady
Bountiful to be his wife, and share his wealth, and
promises to do battle for her against the society
that has thrown her out. And, if the lady
closed with the offer, there might be no tragedy
after all. But, just then, the young man
who went on the land comes back with the
wealth that people who go on the land make in
dramas, but nowhere else ; and Iris throws over
her rich suitor again for the love of the tall young
ideal in the dress suit. She repents before him,
and tells him of all the woes that drove her to sin,
and he holds out a helping hand—to get his coat
and hat and go. And just then Maldonado, who
hears that he has been thrown over again for the
same rival, comes in, this time as aMephistopheles
without any cheque-book, and furiously bids Iris
to go also. The last seen of him he is an incarnate
fiend knocking the elegant flat to splinters. (He
begins with the cheapest articles, and the curtain
falls before he gets to the expensive ones.) The
last seen of poor Lady Bountiful she is going out
to end her penniless days in the streets. She is
a good woman by nature, whose life goes to
pieces between a cold, good man who means well,
and a hot, bad man who means well also—the
disaster being accelerated by Gentleman One.
And her end is probably that of a starving
female perishing on the mud banks down by the
Thames.
* * * *
Maldonado is one of Brough’s many
triumphs. He is a fine character finely played,
and this writer’s sympathies go with him He is
the nominal villain of the story, and as a curious
sample of the murderous philanthropist and bene-
volent Mepbistopheles he is human in every line.
His love turns to hate, while the love of the
allegedly better man only turns to skim milk.
At all events, he is the last man (before he
starts wrecking the flat) who offers the fallen
Iris his name and his fortune, and promises to
stand by her, and when he thinks himself thrown
aside a second time he at least smashes things
stoutly and earnestly, like one who has the blood
of warriors and bushrangers in his veins. Lovell,
as the man who took his hat and coat and left at
a crisis, supplies a good study of the pale, upright
prig. Mrs, Brough does Iris as a flesh and-blood
woman whose troubles come upon her through a
noble heart, an ill-regulated desire to do right,
and a pathetic inability to live on £3 a week, and
who loses her final chance through having too much
conscience in her immoral flat. At the same time
this lady shows a tendency nowadays to play
every part in a rather low-spirited fashion.
The whole _ Brough co. shows up well in
“Iris.” Mis3_ Temple and Leslie Victor and
some other highly deserving people may be
mentioned at greater length next week. Many
tears were shed over “Iris” on Saturday night,
and with anything like good management there
should be a hitter pulpit controversy over it, and
it should be severely spoken of by the church.
There is a moral in it somewhere; still the
solicitor gets away with the money, and Iris, if
she went quite straight in the first place, would
only inherit a log cabin in British Columbia ; and
the wages of sin are an elegantly furnished flat;
and it is indirectly the lady’s better nature which
leads to her becoming an outcast; and it is
indirectly Maldonado’s desire to undo the evil he
has done which leads him to become an embittered
furniture-breaker and to drive the heroine into the
street.
** * *
The Thornton Comedy Co. concludes a
successful season at Sydney Palace to-night
(Thursday), The co. goes on to Bathurst for three
nights to bring the light of its fun to the city of
drought and rack-renting, and thence to Brisbane.
** * *
“ San Toy ” will be staged for the first
time in Sydney at the Palace Theatre this Satur-
day by J. C. Williamson’s musical comedy co.
In the caste are some names almost new to Syd-
ney, and some old'favorites—Miss Lilian Digges,
who played the difficult name-part in the “Alice”
pantomime last year with much grace, among
them. “ San Toy ”is said to be a bright and airy
trifle calculated to make even a pessimist turn
from the contemplation of calamity to cheerful-
ness ; and there is great call for entertainment
of that sort in N.S.W. just now.
■* * * *
“ With Flying Colors,” at Sydney Lyceum,
is a play of more variety than might be expected,
touching on high life and low life, the British
sailor and the British convict (in his humorous
moments), with a glance at the British peasant in
his smock-frock uniform. The gang (Blandolt’s
plays usually prefer their villains in a gang) in-
cludes Harne Ireland, who prefers Albert Nor-
man to Arthur Styan, partly because he’sthe worse
villain and partly because he isn’t her husband.
Consequently she betrays her husband Arthur to
the law. _ Albert Norman, meanwhile, has dis-
guised himself as Lieutenant Andover by the
simple expedient of killing that individual after he
has returned home from the African war (or some-
thing) and is refreshing himself by playing a tune
called “Pom-Pom ”on the piano. The wrong Lieut,
is afterwards haunted by the tune “Pom-Pom.”
Albert Norman is trying to marry Frances Ross,
whose ridiculous father promised the equally
absurd but now deceased parent of Andover that
their children should be united. Frances Ross
and Baker remain true to each other through
much glittering scenery, though Baker is reduced
to enlisting as a common sailor through being
found out cheating at cards, the gang having
abstracted the document which proves that Baker
only did so in order to break his brother-in-law
from the card habit. Baker gets the document
delivered back in a sealed envelope with directions
not to open it till twelve o’clock ; but meanwhile
he has stoushed Albert Norman for insulting
Frances Ross, and is sentenced to three years in
Dartmoor. Stage justice has no chivalrous instincts,
and the British law severely reproaches Baker
for not being calm while Albert Norman
chased his best girl round the deck of
Her Majesty’s ship. During the trouble the
sealed envelope tumbles out near the footlights
and fades out of the drama. A few more people
die here or hereabouts. About this time Albert
Norman is discovered not to be the man who sang
“Pom-Pom ” at the piano, and in consequence an
irresponsible person informs Baker, who has
broken out of prison, that he is a free man.
Albert Norman, not being the officer he pre-
tended to be, Baker, though a common sailor, is
justified in smacking him hard, and the affair
settles itself into a mere ordinary scrap. Just
about the end Styan, who has also broken loose,
wrecks the furniture of Scene Five in his attempts
to murder Norman in fourteen different ways.
After which the good people clasp hands amongst
the mangled chairs, and somebody remarks that
it is now New Year’s morning, and that their
troubles have fled for ever.
• * • •
Bland Holt, as a bank messenger who
wants to be a journalist, does not go right through
the play, but makes a good deal of genuine
amusement in Act Three, when he gets himself
arrested as a deserted sailor in order to get hold
of paragraphs. It is a relief to find both him and
Mrs. Holt as ordinary low-life characters not par-
ticularly faithful to their master and mistress.
They have even married by Act Four and invested
in a baby, though Baker has got into prison, and
Miss Ross is very sorrowful in various fashionable
costumes. The drama has numerous good little
character sketches, but the main personages, who
are all up to their ordinary acting level, are of the
usual pattern.
#* * *
At Sydney Tivoli, Cinquevalli still amuses
with his nimble muscles and his gay little tricks
of humor; and those skilful musicians, the
Jacksons, are on a welcome return visit. Miss
Florrie Gallimore, billed as “London’s premier
soubrette,” made a first appearance last week and
proved to be a Marie-Lloyd-and -water type,
younger and not so broad as the cerulean Marie,
but astonishingly like her in voice, manner and
appearance, even to the long, bright teeth. Mark
Anthony and Tom Woottwell continue to be
heartily greeted by the audience.
** * *
Major Lenehan’s yarn, at Sydney Cen-
tenary Hall, about the S’African war was inter-
esting, despite the fact that he read it from a
manuscript book, as a dry Anglican parson
delivers his sermon. Also, he is no orator, and
the account itself was splashed over with crimson
streaks of “fine writing.” But it was interesting.
We have had war-correspondents before—men
who had gone out to see and describe; but this
one had gone out to kill and be killed ; and,
having saved his body alive, he came back to
tell why he went, and what it felt like to be
engaged in the slaying of one’s fellow creatures
There was no cant about him : As a boy he
had longed for a gun—a real gun that would do
real damage ; and when he was old the desire did
not depart from him. When the Boer war hap-
pened he got the opportunity to use that real gun,
and the interest of his story was to hear a man
who, two years ago, was a peaceful, inoffensive
attorney tell what it all felt like. It was hard, but
only moderately dangerous. There was no glory
about it—the actual fighting consisted mostly of
shooting at an apparently deserted hillside : and
there was no horror—only a long-continued lack
of proper sleeping accommodation and a monoto-
nous repetition of short rations. He told of his
connection with the historic Bushveldt Carbineers,
but had to cut it short on account of having wasted
valuable time over the battle of Diamond Hill,
and still more valuable minutes with a phono-
graphic reproduction of what Toby Barton and
G. Republican Dibbs said when lie was going
away. The phonograph and the battle of Diamond
Hill are mistakes. The people want to hear
about the Bushveldt Buccaneers. If Major
Lenehan sticks to that part of his subject, and
leaves Barton, Dibbs, and Diamond Hill out of
it, the public will roll up.
** * *
“ The Lady Slavey,” by the Sheridan co.,
opened to a crowded house at Sydney Criterion,
and the congested state of the theatre was, in the
main, deserved. Our own Harry Leston is dis-
covered in Act I. as the usual light-hearted Irish-
man, cheerfully enduring the trouble of not being
able to pay his rent or anything else. An Irish-
man’s hght-heartedness in bearing up under the
burdens he casts on other people is always much
admired on the stage. Leston’s creditors, who
consist mostly of nice girls in fashionable frocks,
voice their desire for coin in choruses ; and their
wrath is appeased by songs and dances contributed
by the impecunious one and his three daughters,
one of whom has taken a situation as her own
slavey, because the real Mary Janes have left.
Meanwhile, two bailiffs make their appearance, to
an appropriate burst of thunder and lightning
(which does not disturb the unpaid-for lake). They
consist mostly of John Sheridan, and intend taking
the ancestral furniture away in a wheelbarrow ;
but are placated with some more songs and dances.
Meanwhile, the cheerful Irishman endeavors to
repair the family fortunes by appropriating a
travelling millionaire as a son-in-law. His two
elder girls are considered suitable, as they have
learnt to play the pianola and the phonograph,
and have similar up-to-date accomplishments;
but the youngest, having gone into the slavey
business, is regarded as being out of it. A
g;reat Moral is conveyed when the mil-
lionaire, who is otherwise a nondescript sort
of personage, chooses the slavey (who conveys
another moral by looking much better in her frilly
apron and cap than in her long-tailed dress after-
wards). A variety lady, who owns a pet noble-
tman and calls him to her with a whistle, also tries
'for the millionaire, and looks so serious a rival
that the anxious parent is almost “resolved to
scratch his two entries at once.”
* • • •
Sheridan, as abailiff, who becomes a flunkey
and then a bogu3 millionaire, acts up to his
old form, and puts fun into his part of
the libretto whether it happens to be there or not.
Miss Celia Mavis, with a pretty figure and a good
voice, flutters cheerfully round in her taking
slavey costume, but doesn’t do any slavey work
while before the public. She is asked to make tea
once, but sings a song or two instead. Miss
Florrie Barns, as the Empire Lady, does some
mountainous high-kicking and joins Frank Cross-
ley in a ditty which tells humans to love each
other, because the ducks, geese, baa-lambs and
other kindred souls do the same. The dancing in
“ The Lady Slavey ” is a specially good feature,
some of it being novel as well.
** « #
The Woods-Williamson co. has moved on
to Newcastle (N.S.W.), where the co. will open at
the Victoria Theatre to-night (Saturday) in
“Hands Across the Sea,” to be followed by the
“Gates of Bondage” and “Boy Jim.”
Henry Lee's production of “ Cyrano de
Bergerac,” at Melb. Bijou, last Saturday, was
an admirable surprise even to those who ex-
pected to be struck by Rostand’s play, and had
heard good accounts from America of Lee’s
performance in the name part. What they
hardly expected was a handsome, well set-up
show, containing 46 different characters, with
never a stick in the whole brigade. “ Cyrano de
Bergerac,” being French and foreign in its title,
in its ancient historical interest and color, and in
the intricate discursiveness of its first act, is the
sort of play that Williamson and Musgrove care-
fully avoid, as a rule. They know their Australian
public’s objection to 46 names on the programme,
anyhow. But, if either of those experienced
magnates had given “Cyrano” a chance, in
which case it would have had the advantage of
more stage room than it gets at the Bijou, the all-
round efficiency of Lee’s company would probably
not have been equalled. This performance is a
welcome departure from the old Australian custom
of putting hopeless idiots into one-line parts.
* * * *
There are five acts to “ Cyrano de Ber-
gerac.” In the crowded Ist act, and first half of
the 2nd act the happenings are mostly outside of
the plot, rather than in it. You get pictures of
the Richelieu period in Paris. The interior of a
theatre that looks like a tavern, with a stage on
the left hand side, and a mild suggestion of the
great Cardinal in the stage-box—an incidental
duel for De Bergerac, the legendary hero
of 200 or 500 duels—a rush of hungry poets
in seedy black velvet suits (poets wore a
livery at that time) to the bun - shop of
one Ragueneau, who dabbled in ballades and
sonnets himself, and therefore allowed the profes-
sional bards to wolf his pastry gratis—a rush of
Gascon cadets to the same bun-shop. These
things lead up to the story of Nosey de Bergerac’s
self-sacrifice, as related by the present bard in the
foregoing rhyme. One character not mentioned
in that metrical synopsis of the play is a Count
who covets the heroine, but is circumvented by
the Nose. The central figures, apart from the
name-character, are the nice girl, the young man
who borrows the hero’s brains and marries the girl
just before he is sent away to get killed, and the
circumvented Count, who turns out to be not a
bad sort. But the name-part amounts to about
half of the play.
« * • •
Henry Lee, disguised in a moderately
awful nose, is a strong, impressive De Bergerac.
As far as he seems stagey, the staginess seems
natural to the man. Sometimes his enunciation
of the words is too rapid, but his voice and action
are very eloquent when he has special points to
make. Miss Janet Waldorf, hoarse, as usual,
makes the sketchy character of Roxane sufficiently
attractive. Norval M‘Gregor is capital in one
scene and satisfactory elsewhere. Also, Laurence
Hauray scores steadily as the Count. C. M.
Rodney (late of the ’alls) is a cheery pastrycook,
Ragueneau ; and Hans Phillips and John Cos-
grove make themselves useful when wanted.
Among 20 other people, there are some novices
who act their one-line apiece with so much intel-
ligence that it would be a pity to mention their
names and give ’em swelled head.
#* # *
“ Sweet Nell,” concerning which beautiful
picture of immorality in High Life The Bulletin
has said nice things on many occasions, came back
to Melb. the other night looking rather better
than when it went away. Since six months ago
the young man who nearly got executed has
changed places with another member of the
original cast, the change being an improvement.
Moreover Mrs. John Sandes figures as the casual
Duchess instead of a previous lady, and Mel-
bourne’s opinion of the royal Charles’s taste in
duchesses went up a lot when Mrs. Sandes took
the floor at the Princess’s for the first time. For
that matter Nellie Stewart looks somewhat love-
lier than before, if possible, but this last remark
is tempered by the suggestion that the divinity in
question struck the top note of loveliness at the
outset and has been hanging on to it ever since.
** * *
Feminine curiosity as to the Sex’s privi-
leges in wrong-doing was largely responsible for a
crowded Royal, at Melbourne, last Saturday, when
“The Worst Woman in London” filed her little
schedule of misdeeds. Her claims to beat the
record are based upon a straight-out murder of
her husband, an attempt to cremate her step-
daughter, and the conversion of Temple Har-
rison into a ramping lunatic —this latter is
her least forgivable offence. Compared with
the _ woman in America who was lately
convicted of poisoning two-score and ten of her
bosom friends and benefactors, the W.W. is a mild
offender. She scarcely excels Lady Audlev, who
also marries an old man, and wipes him out before
endeavoring to roast her step-daughter. Some
relief to The Sinful Woman’s sinfulness is supplied
by Bert Bailey, who backs “dead birds” to his
undoing, and marries Georgie Leighford ; also, a
ballet in Hyde Park, with stockings too unusual
for publication.
* * * *
Miss Duggan, as the heroine, is assisted in
her Worstness by shapely shoulders and arms, and
gowns long enough to goad any right-minded
woman to healthy envy. The average heroine
ought to rest content with these advantages.
Miss Duggan’s lapses into homicide, bur-
glary, and incendiarism are unaccountable.
The “Worst Woman” was strong in scenery
and effects. In the last scene but one
Miss D. and her faithful Willard fire a dwelling
which contains Ruth (the Ruths of melodrama are
mostly virtuous), and the two women argue
matters in an upstairs room while the staircase
burns furiously and flames peep in from under the
floor. And in the last scene a fireman hoses the
premises from adjoining housetops, whilst Ruth
travels over the roofs of London by telephone
wire. Then the hand of the lunatic lays hold of
the W.W. and Vengeance is His.
** # *
After Friday of this week “ A Circus
Girl ” will be numbered with the has-beens at Her
Majesty’s (Melb.), therefore a few nice allusions
to the ladies of the co., or some of them, are held
back for future occasions. “Robin Hood” is in
rehearsal for the 16th, and a revival of “ A Runa-
way Girl ” will fill the intervening space. This
will enable the recent band of amateur imitators
to come along and acquire a dim consciousness of
their pardonable defects, unless the promise of
“an interesting change of oast” means that
manager Williamson has drawn upon the recent
amateur co. for some new faces. He can hardly
have gone to them for new voices or I—s.
There lived a gifted Gascon in the misty days of
yore—
A poet, scholar, duellist, a gentleman-o’-war—
Who fought for barren honor, neither truckling to
a lord
Nor courting adulation for his ready wit and
sword;
Yet he worshipped one weak woman for her
beauty and her grace—
One vision clad in silken skirt and bodice tricked
with lace—
Though his passion was a secret that he never
dared disclose,
Being cruelly disfigured by a pantomimic nose.
The maiden sought the Gascon, and his pulses
throbbed for joy
Till she introduced the subject of another soldier
boy,
Explaining that the ’Dolphus whom she wanted
for her “ mash ”
Had the beauty of Apollo, plus an up-to-date
moustache,
His yearning gaze had told her he would offer her
his heart
When his timid tongue found courage to perform
a wooer’s Dart.
The Gascon heard the lady’s tale; his hopes
within him froze;
But be swore to make her happy, and —a tear ran
down his nose.
He carried out his promise—nay, was better than
his word,
Eor he spake the choicest speeches love-sick
Phyllis ever heard;
And he wrote delightful letters, which inflamed
the heaving breast
Of the young and artless creature unto whom they
were addressed.
And all the sweet, warm sentiments the Gascon
wrote or spoke
Were made to seem the products of the classic-
featured bloke;
And thus the girl’s clay idol in her estimation
rose
On airy pinions borrowed from the poet with the
Nose.
They wedded, and were parted by the ruthless
hand of Fate —
The bridegroom fell in battle, and the widow’s
grief was great.
She lived with Holy Sisters, who permitted her
to quote
Long extracts from those letters that her lost one
never wrote.
And so she went on mourning (though she always
raised a smile
When the Gascon came to see her) for a weary,
weary while.
But one day the patient author of her fondly-
treasured Lie
To the peaceful convent garden came to lay him.
down and die;
And the long-deluded widow knew the truth ere
he expired—
How his wit had wooed and won her for the man
her eyes admired—
How he’d freely lent the fancies of his love-
inspired brain
To the dunderheaded image of the masher who
was slain.
Then the woman kissed the poet, and he sank into
repose
With the light of heaven shining on his panto-
mimic nose.


TRAMWAYS. TRA.MWAYS.
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Proprietary, Lt d.,
ft
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
Representing ORENSTEIN & KOPPEL LTD., of LONDON and BERLIN,
Equip Complete TRAMWAYS and supply Every Description of Tramway Material
tpp“ Locomotives from 10 to 250 h.p. TEH
STOCKS IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE include Rails and Accessories, Steel
Sleepers, Turntables, Switches, Side Tipping Trucks, Steel Wheels, &c. Technical
advice gratuitously rendered. Flying and Permanent Surveys arranged. Illustrated
Catalogues and Photographic Albums showing Tramways constructed in different
parts of the World, upon application. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager.
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “ Option,"
Melbourne.*
* » * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * •
Although the severe drought has detrimentally
affected mining, there are still many mines requiring
pumps of all descriptions, and to those we would recom-
mend the A.S. Cameron Steam Pumps. Besides these, a
much-improved Gyratory Crusher is now on the market —
viz., the “Austin”- in style on the Gates’ system, but
greatly improved throughout, and having special features
which make them superior to all others. The agents for
the above are Messrs. W. and J. Lempriere, 506 Little
Collins St., Melbourne. This enterprising firm is always
to the front with the best of every mining appliance,
which includes the unparalleled Luhrig Concentrating
Vanner.*
• * * •
£25,000 has just been expended on machinery
alone by the Dunlop Tyre Co. at their big Rubber Mills,
Melbourne. The Company is now prepared to supply
Suction, Drill or Air Hose, Packing, Valves, etc. Quality
and prices the best in Australasia. Samples and prices
upon application.*
* « m *
The Commercial World, August, 1901, writes
re the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society, Limited :
“ It is primarily a progressive institution its contracts are
liberal, and, moreover, its financial position is everything
which could be desired.”*
• * • •
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-street, Melbourne,
having returned from his visit to England, is now pre-
pared to purchase approved Mines and Mining Properties
situated in any part of Australasia requiring Capital for
Development and Machinery. Only genuine and
legitimate ventures, capable of bearing the strictest
examinations, will be entertained.*
* * * *
Very extensive alterations and improvements
have just been completed at the engineering works of
Mephen Ferguson, Melbourne. The principal item of
interest is a new Electric Welding plant, which is now in
use welding the steel-plates required in the manufacture
of the patent spiral riveted pipes which are in such large
demand for water-supply, mining and other purposes.
The new method of welding is giving very satisfactory
results, and is well worth seeing.*
* • • •
The antidote to cyanide poisoning, as supplied
by Ernest de Beer, 439 Bourke-street, Melbourne, has
been approved by the Victorian Mines Department as
being the only real antidote known. All who use
cyanide should keep one or two of these on hand. The
price is 10s. each.*
• * * •
The test crushing from Queen Margaret Central
(W.A.) has yielded 2620 z. from 200 tons. This is a very
poor return for seven years’ work. The chutes from the
Queen Margaret begin dipping into this property between
300 and 400 ft., and above this level the mine is practically
blank It will take at least £lO,OOO to put the co. on a
payable basis, and more than twice that amount if spent
in driblets, so that a long series of calls has to be faced.
Under such conditions scrip is merely a gambling counter
without any intrinsic value apart from market manipula-
tions.
* • • •
Latest advices from well-informed authorities
in London indicate the probability of a sharp advance in
the value of copper in the near future. Copper shares
which are now at a low figure might be worth watching.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Under license from the A.G.O. of A. Ld.
BPOT or FORWARD. LOWEST PRICES.
Storage can be arranged.
HY. MARK WALD,
Melbourne, Sydnev, Brisbane, Adelaide, Auckland
UUMKDIM AMD WELLIMOIOM.
At the little Melbourne Gaiety, where the
aristocracy can enjoy all the distinction of a front
seat for one shilling, Dan Barry and co. are just
now plaving “Uncle Tom’s Cabin” with varia-
tions The Gaiety doesn’t offer much scope for
display of de white man’s inhumanity to his black
brudder, but Dan spreads out his effects as fax as
they will go—which is not far. The religious
influence of the narrative is brought very near to
the guilty souls who have paid a shilling for the
sermon; and Little Eva gets borne upwards by
cherubim who hover so adjacent to the orchestra
that the conductor seems to have entered the
Kingdom, as it were.
»* * *
The Florenz co., from Europe via Sydney
Tiv, put in their delayed appearance at Melb.
Opera House, last Saturday, and supplied an
acrobatic want in the musical programme. The
Florenzians seem to do what the Craggs did, with
the difference that they make some of the feats
more difficult and the general effect less
pleasing. All the same, they are a good
“turn.” The co. includes a massive lady
of prepossessing appearance, whose bare and
brawny shoulders are freely jumped upon by
her male eollaborateurs whilst a bounding Hebrew
professor lightens the proceedings with a Dervish
frivol. Eagan, in the plum-colored suit, is back
again, and the present scribe adores Eagan because
sweetly furious Henrietta Byron rushes in to see
him like a burst of joy. All this time Madame
Titus has been deepening a public conviction that
she is the one mimic in the world whose imitations
are vocally inimitable.
#* * *
Hawtrey has farewelled at Adelaide Royal,
in “A Message from Mars.” Also in the con-
ventionally-immoral “ Lady of Ostend.” Also in
an astonishing play by a lady writer who has dis-
covered the inherent cowardice of making one
plot turn on only two people who resemble each
other; she apparently calculates on getting 50 per
cent, more fun by making them three in number.
Clearly there are possibilities in the new idea, but
why draw the line at three? The adventures of
a whole cricket-teain who could not be distin-
guished from each other are hereby suggested as a
useful plot. Holloway has opened in “A Life’s
Revenge,” and Adelaide, which is quite un-
accustomed to seeing ladies fight with swords, is
rather shocked, and slightly fascinated. The
Tivoli has been doing good business with the
Sidney Drews and a strong co. into which Eagan
and Byron and the Willons have now been
dropped.
The Wild Cat Column.
The Australian Gas-Light Co. (Sydney):
Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
Dec., 1896 £54,898 15 per cent. = £51,135 £116,178
June, 1897 48,436 15 „ „ 51,135 113,479
Dec., 1897 54,743 15 „ „ 51,135 117,087
June, 1898 47,923 15 „ „ 51,135 113,875
Dec., 1898 54,156 15 „ „ 51,135 116,896
June, 1899 46,995 15 „ „ 51,135 112,756
Dec., 1899 55,628 15 „ „ 51,135 117,249
June, 1900 47,879 15 „ „ 51,135 113,993
Dec., 1900 54,033 15 „ „ 51,135 116,891
June, 1901 48,352 15 „ „ 51,135 114,108
Dec., 1901 56,818 15 „ „ 51,918 119/08
June, 1902 49,954 15 „ „ 55,045 113,917
The Australian Gas-Light Co. appears to have no ambition
to increase its reserves, which have been practically
stationary for a long series of years. It doesn’t even
attempt to accumulate a fund for the repayment of its
debentures at maturity, and when £300,000 worth fell due
the other day they were renewed. The co., however,
makes a large saving in the deal. The interest is reduced
from 5 to 4 per cent, which means £3OOO a year less to
pay, and the new debentures have fetched on an average
£lOl 10s., so there is a considerable profit on the transac-.
tion apart from the interest saving.
* » * *
Information is still wanting as to how the
financial year that closed on 30th June really panned
out in N.S.W., Victoria, and South Australia, and the
returns for July (first month of new financial year) are
not all in yet. It is known, however, that N.S.W. had a
remarkably good month in July, revenue being £50,818
ahead of expenditure. It is also known that, despite all
the recent heavy borrowing, the loan account is over-
drawn £3,844,562, and as the amount yet to be received
on account of the last £3,000,000 loan won’t anything
like half square this, it is tolerably certain that the next
loan, despite assurances to the contrary, is very close at
hand. There is also talk of a Queensland loan of
£2,000,000; a Maoriland loan of £1,750,000 ; and loans
from S.A. and Westralia, amounts unknown. Victoria
has floated its loan of £1,000,000. Victoria got better
terms than any other State has done for a long while—in
fact, it made such a good bargain with the financiers who
agreed to underwrite the loan that the public wouldn’t
take it at the price, and most of it was left on the under-
writers’ hands. The natural result will be that the next
State which goes borrowing will get worse terms.
» * * *
The Metropolitan Gas Co. (Melbourne):
New Works
Profits. Dividends. charged to Re-
Revenue. serves.
Dec., 1899 . £515,983
June, 1900 £50,829 8 p.c. = £34,288 532,524
Dec., 1900 58,727 8 „ „ 34,288 £1,441 555,522
June, 1901 53,954 9 „ „ 38,574 9,758 561,144
Dec., 1901 56,872 9 „ „ 38,574 10,725 568,717
June, 1902 50,212 9 „ ~ 38,574 11,643 568,712
Several points stand out conspicuously in the report of
Melbourne’s very massive gas concern. The net profit is
the smallest recorded for a long while. The reserves
show a slight diminution—the first for a long while. Of
course, the latter item is not a serious one, for the large
amount provided out of profits for extensions and new
works must be taken into account. But the co. is bur-
dened with an immense debenture debt (£848,000 of de-
bentures have been issued), and a much more consistent
effort should be made to reduce this liability. Again,
the reserve of cash and liquid securities (£59,918) is fully
£lO,OOO less than it was six months ago. In addition to
the additions and extensions that were paid for out of
profits, there were others which were charged to capital,
and these have depleted the cash considerably. If the
co. has any hope or intention of ever pa.ying off, or reduc-
ing, its huge debenture debt, it needs to keep accumulat-
ing a reserve for the purpose, and apparently it can’t do
very much in that way while the dividend remains at 9
percent. The increase of the dividend last year from 8
to 9 per cent, looks like a bad mistake in every way'.
* * * *
The new Adelaide Steamship Co. (Adelaide)
publishes its second balance-sheet, covering the year to
31st May, 1902. The profit shown is pretty large, and
considerable sums have also been added to the insurance
reserve and the reserve for repairs and renewals. These
additions are included in the gross profit shown under-
neath
Profits. Dividends. , ° arried 10 _ Total
v Reserves. Reserves.
1901 .. £47,041 5 p.c. = £25,359 £21,682 £21,682
1902.. 91,329 10 „ „ 50,718 40,611 62,293
The reserves consist of Insurance Reserve, £35,916 ; Re-
pairs and Renewals Reserve, £17,705 ; and undivided
profit, £8672. The co. has 18 vessels of over 1400 tons, of
which 13 are over 2000 tons and one over 3000 tons. Also
it has two 3000-ton vessels under construction. The
paid-up capital stands at £507,175.
The Victorian Government has decided to have
nothing to do with the proposed private enterprise
railway to Mount Deddick. Nobody could ever discover
why any co., or alleged co., wanted a concession to build
a line from a small seaport, through a barren stretch of
country, to a so-called mineral field which had never
shown the least promise of paying for axle-grease, and
wiiere nothing was being done. Victoria stood to gain
nothing by the enterprise even if the raihvay was built,
which seemed impossible, and if the concession got into
the hands of somebody who did, by any chance, manage
to sell it to persons of weak intellect in England, it would
Erobably create ill-feeling against the State. So it is
etter to leave Deddick in its solitude.
* * » *
The Perpetual Trustees, Executors and
Agency Co. of Tasmania (Hobart) hasn’t succeeded in
living up to that streak of luck which induced it, six
months ago, to rush its dividend up to 8 per cent.:
Dividend and Added to Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves, serves.
June, 1896 .. £521 6 per cent. = £315 £206 £3619
Dec., 1896 ..462 6 „ „ 315 147 3766
June, 1897 ..349 6 „ „ 315 34 3800
Dec., 1897 ..465 6 „ „ 315 150 3950
June, 1898 ..421 6 „ „ 315 106 4056
Dec., 1898 ..421 6 „ ~ 315 106 4162
June, 1899 ..365 6 „ „ 315 50 4212
Dec., 1899.. 346 6 „ „ 315 31 4243
June, 1900 .. 380 6 „ „ 315 65 4308
Dec., 1900 ..358 6 „ „ 315 43 4351
June, 1901 .. 454 6 „ ~ 315 139 4490
Dec., 1901 .. 1404 8 „ „ 420 984 6474
June, 1902 .. 703 -j Written off” 255} 28 6502
The earnings are getting back pretty nearly to the old
level, and if they get much further back in that direction
the increase of dividend will look rather dubious policy.
The sum written off is in reduction of the book value of
the co’s office property, and it is always a safe thing to
keep that written down to bedrock. In several important
respects the balance-sheet of the Perpetual Trustees,
Executors and Agency Go. of Tasmania continues to be
a model of what a balance-sheet should not be. It lumps
commission and interest together, so it is impossible to
guess what rate of interest the assets yield. Also, it
describes £2787 of these assets as “Investments” and
£13,681 as “Sundry Debtors,” without any attempt at
supplying further particulars. These items represent
three-fifths of the total assets, and a whole lot more
information as to what they consist of would not be
amiss.
* * * *
S.M. Herald, in its financial column of 25th
July, worked off its usual elderly sneer about how “a
short cut to prosperity by means of note-issues seems
always to be a dream of those who are not
prepared to work for and attain it by legitimate
methods.” Then it proceeds to treat the proposal
that the banks should be required to hold a
portion of their cash reserve (the affair that doesn’t circu-
late) in State paper, as an attempt to create a great,
bloated, debauched circulation of depreciated paper.
Also, it points to Argentina as a horrible example of
where this sort of thing leads to—Argentina, which the
local Fat Man is always holding up as the bright example
that we should follow. And finally, it utters the solemn
warning that any rash experiments may interfere
with our borrowing powers. The borrowing business is
the short cut to prosperity always dreamed of by a stupid
old Herald that ‘ ‘ is not prepared to work for and attain
prosperity by legitimate means.” But the besotted paper
really regards borrowing as working hard and legitimately
to attain prosperity. The State paper money idea is at
least a matter of self-dependence. It consists in the
country lending money to itself. It doesn’t take any
more interest out of the country, or increase the
country’s foreign liabilities. And these are big advan-
tages in the case of the most-pawned community on
earth —which Australasia certainly is.
* » '• #
Figures of the Broken Hill Water Supply
Co:
Half-year Water Supplied, Water in reser-
to gallons. Profit. voir, gallons.
June, 1898 62,937,000 £11,779 1,966,482,000
Dec., 1898 87,482,000 15,760 1,157,491,000
June, 1899 93,852,000 16,161 1,456,128,0(0
Dec., 1899 94,350,000 16,845 779,896,000
June, 1900 112.966,000 19,557 721,557,000
Dec., 1900 129,278,000 17,923 339,242,000
June, 1901 93,617,000 14,116 549,636,000
Dec., 1901 71,767,000 10,250 873,306,000
June, 1902 88,368,000 11,386 427,858,000
Only 98 points of rain, scattered over 14 days, has been
registered at the pumping station in the last six months,
and the supply at this time of year was never so low. In
view of these figures it isn’t a bit surprising that the fear
of a water famine is weakening many holders of Broken
Hill mining stock.
* * • #
The profits, dividends and reserves of the
Broken Hill Water Supply Co. show up as follows :
Deficit.
(Goodwill
Carried not
to Re- reckoned
Profits. Dividends. serves, an asset).
June, 1897 £13,365 { off^f,4Bs } ~ £10 > 507
Dec., 1897 15,705 10 p.c.= 9,325 £6380 4,127
June, 1898 11,779 10 „ 9,325 2454 1,673
Reserves.
Dec., 1898 15,760 10 „ 9,325 6435 4,762
June, 1899 16,161 15 „ 13,987 2174 6,936
Dec., 1899 16,845 12J „ 11,656 5189 12,125
June, 1900 19,557 12| „ 11,656 7901 20,026
Dec., 1900 17,923 15 „ 13,987 3936) „„
Premiums on New Shares issued .. 3379/
June, 1901 14,116 15 p.c. = 15,000 26,457
Dec., 1901 10,250 10 „ 10,000 250 26,707
June, 1902 11,386 10 „ 10,000 1386 28,093
The Broken Hill Water Supply Co. describes its reserves
as amounting to £53,287, but when the goodwill item
“Water rights, leases, Parliamentary Bills, &c., cost
£25,194” is deducted the net amount is as above.
Whether the net reserves are sufficient to cover deprecia-
tion of the (nominally) £164,302 worth of works is a
question that can’t be decided, except by experts. The
above big item still stands at the original cost, and
The Bulletin is still of opinion that it should be consider-
ably written down, and that the goodwill item should be
wholly written off. Some day Broken Hill must perish
utterly; it has already received, in its recent run of ill-
luck, a broad hint to that effect; and when the event
takes place (or when the co.’s concession. expires) the
B.H. Water Supply Co.’s plant and goodwill and all the
rest will be worth nothing at all. It must either accumu-
late funds with which to repay its capital, or else regard
itself as a “ wasting” concern, like a gold mine, whose
capital will be all gone after a certain time. The results
are practically the same either way, but the shares would
be a much steadier investment, and much less of a gamble
if an attempt was made to accumulate a sufficient fund
for the ultimate repayment of capital.
» * • *
“ Z.Y.X.” : Would hold the Q.N.B. stock. It
is better to do that than sell at present rates. Don’t
think the other stock you mention will ever be paid—at
least it is only a chance. A reckless speculator, with
money to burn, might buy it as a gamble for the sake of
the big present return. Wouldn’t advise anyone else to
try it on present appearances.
* * * *
Richardson and Wrench, Limited (Sydney),
incorporated property-agents and dealers in land, houses
and the like :
Deficit.
(Goodwill
In Re- not
ductionof reckoned
Profits. Dividends. Deficit, an asset).
June, 1899 £52,057
Dec., 1899 £2071 5 per cent. =£lsoo £571 51,486
June, 1900 2448 5 ~ „ 1500 948 50,538
Dec., 1900 2538 5 „ „ 1500 1038 49,500
June, 1901 2517 5 „ „ 1500 1017 48,483
Dec., 1901 3313 5 „ „ 1500 1813 46,670
June, 1902 3263 5 „ „ 1500 1763 44,907
The goodwill item has been written down from £57,500 to
£44,907, and the process of extinction is making very good
progress of late. The co. has over £25,000 in cash and
liquid assets.
• • • •
Last Monday’s Sydney Telegraph again
solemnly warned the Federal Government that it must
borrow, even for non-productive works—that it must not
build any public works out of revenue—because, “ to
expend even £200,000 on public works out of revenue
might land the Commonwealth on the wrong side.” The
party which the Telegraph represents and barracks for
has brought about this state of things by persistent
cutting down of the tariff, and the Telegraph was never
weary of declaring that the original tariff was a monstrous
engine of extortion. It now demands loans on the
ground that it has succeeded in cutting down the tariff
till it is quite insufficient—and it is enthusiastically
backing the Senate in attempts at further reduction.
The honest course now is for the Federal Government to
charge necessary works to revenue, and, if revenue is
insufficient, to demand more tariff revenue, or direct
taxation. The account that is “on the wrong side”
can’t be put on the right side by loans.
* * * •
The Commercial Building and Investment
Co. (Sydney) again fails to make ends meet. Still, it
comes so near to doing it that it seems a pity the board
didn’t forego part of its remuneration and turn the small
deficit into a profit, if only for the appearance of the
thing. The co. has a paid-up capital of £145,036, and its
recent record is as follows :
Loss on Loss on Pro- Total n. wrv .,
Business, perty Sales. Loss.
June, 1896.. £lBl5
Deficit.
„ 1897.. £3145 £3145 1330
„ 1898.. 4037 4037 5
„ 1899.. 1485 £l5OB 2993 8360
„ 1900.. 933 933 9293
„ 1901.. 186 186 9479
„ 1902.. 45 45 9524
The co.’s gross income is equal to £4 os. 7d. per cent.,
and the income, less working expenses, is equal to £2 7s. 2d.
per cent., on the paper value of the co.’s investments. If
the co. was trading on its own capita', therefore, it could
pay 2 per cent, dividends and have something over to
carry to reserve fund. Unfortunately it is trading to a
great extent on £148,000 of borrowed money. This cost
£4 10s. 2d. per cent, interest last year, and money bor-
rowed at £4 10s. 2d. and invested at £2 7s. 2d. net, is cal-
culated to hamper any institution. The Commercial
Building and Investment Co. shows a steady improvement
in its earnings, but practically no progress is being made
at reducing the heavy mortgage debt on its properties.
If the £14,000 allegedly callable capital could be got in
and applied in reduction of the liabilities the institution
would show a small profit which could be applied to the
writing down of the assets till things got on something
like a sound footing again. It would require a profit of
£5BOO, instead of the present loss of £45, to pay a 4 per
cent, dividend, so the sound footing is at present a good
distance off.
• • * •
“ Eagar ” (Forbes): So far a lot of gold has been
discovered, but nothing rich, and very little that is pay-
able, when the expense of working mines so far out is
taken into account. It is just a gamble.
* * * •
Wellington Building and Investment Go.
(Wellington, Maoriland) closed a very profitable year on
30th June, 1902:
Profits. Dividends. selves.
1893 .. £2374 9 per cent. = £1732 £642 £3,969
1894 .. 2442 9 „ „ 1732 710 4,679
1895 .. 2400 9 „ „ 1732 668 5,347
1896 .. 3351 9 „ „ 1732 1619 6,966
1897 .. 2931 9 „ „ 1790 1141 8,107
1898 .. 2730 9 „ „ 1800 930 9,037
1899.. 2909 9 „ „ 2115 794) Kal
Premiums on New Shares 3750 /
1900 .. 3444 9 per cent. = 2469 975 14,556
1901 .. 3344 9 „ „ 2475 869 15,425
1902 .. 3585 10 „ „ 2750 . 835 16,260
The Wellington Building and Investment Co. is a
splendidly profitable concern, but its balance-sheet is in
some ways strikingly reminiscent of many splendidly
profitable co.’s of the same kind that existed on this side
before 1893. It trades on £43,760 of its own funds
(capital £27,500 and reserves £16,260) and on £109,690 of
deposits. Ithas£l42,623invested in mortgages, which pro-
bably can’t be realised quickly at an emergency, and £9039
in “Investments” —the balance-sheet doesn’t give any
hint as to whether they are of a liquid character or not.
There is no mention of any reserve of State securities or
the like. While the deposits keep coming in it is profit-
able business to bury them to the last farthing in mort-
gages and other fixed investments (which, as a rule, are
the best-paying kind of investments). The trouble lies
in the possibility of a time coming when there will be
heavy withdrawals, and the fixed investments can’t be
realised in time to meet them. Of course, such a thing
looks just as impossible in Maoriland now as it did on
this side 13 years ago.
« * « #
The dead set which is being made against con-
tributing shares in mining co.s, in consequence of the
action of the Broken Hill South directors, is all right,
provided that the co. is given something to fall back on in
the hard times, sure to come to pretty well every mining
co. sooner or later. The co. that has to meet a slump in
metals or work through barren ore-faces with no calling
power and no reserve fund has, most times, to make
enormous sacrifices in order to pull through, when it has
the luck to pull through at all.
« • • *
B.H. Block 14, which has lately employed only
about 80 men, shuts up altogether, pending recovery in the
lead market. Last half year, the working account
showed a loss of £BOB2, although items for about £3OOO
should be taken from this to get the true “ strength ” of
the co. From the shareholders’ point of view the shutting-
up is best; the mine was simply being gutted of carbon-
ates, which are almost invaluable in building up a
smelting mixture. And in [the long run it is probably
best for the miners, too, because for the sake of a few tons
of ore the whole mine’s future was being risked. Meantime
the co. has adopted its recently-discussed scheme for rais-
ing a little more capital by preference shares.— The chair-
man of the North officially confirmed at the shareholders’
meeting an estimate recently made here that that co.
could resume work profitably when lead gets to £l2 ;
which, by the way, it seems in no hurry to do. A share-
holder asked if the co. would adopt the Huntington-
Heberlein desulphurising process, as the B.H. Prop, had
done ; and the chairman said they would if it was neces-
sary. So far, though, there is not the smallest proba-
bility that any co. which does not smelt its ore will
benefit by any desulphurising process. So the arrival of
these processes is not at all likely to make things any
better for the South, North, Junction, Block 10, or
British. Block 10 has engaged J. O. Armstrong, for-
merly mill-manager at the B.H. Prop., to design its
proposed new mill; and he ought to make as good a job
of it as anybody.
• • * •
Cobar Chesney : The Secretary writes —“You
have unwittingly made an error in your remarks on this
co. There was no syndicate to take up forfeited shares,
and there were no forfeited shares taken up. Under the
Act the forfeited shares on the 21st call were advertised
for sale by auction. At the request of several brokers,
who said they had not had time to communicate with
their principals, the date was postponed twice, and it
took place on June 14, after full advertisement. There
can be no preference in such a matter.”
• * * *
The King of Sunny Corner, Kemp Charleston,
has been dethroned. As lessee of Frank Gardner’s dere-
lict mine, he has been notified by N.S.W. Mines Depart-
ment that he must comply with labor Conditions within a
few days, or leases will be forfeited. As to the justice or
otherwise of this ultimatum, as affecting Mr. Charleston,
The Bulletin expresses no opinion. The case is typical
of many in N.S.W. Politicians, storekeepers, and miners
combine to get leases forfeited. If they succeed, the
advantage to them is mythical. In the Sunny Corner
case, miners and metallurgists assert that they can work
the mine at a profit. This assertion involves an impro-
bable condition—that the man who is put out of posses-
sion will allow the machinery and furnaces to remain.
But assuming that he were magnanimous enough to
make the plant a present to the jumpers what, then,
would be their position ? To bring the mine to the pro-
ducing stage, the workers would need at least £2OOO or
£3OOO to buy fuel and other supplies, and then would
come the “ realisation” business which would paralyse
them. They, in their ignorance, imagine that so much
matte, containing so much copper, lead, silver and gold,
represents so much money. It may do so, but—mot for
them. An army of agents, middlemen and refiners have
to be reckoned with first and what they would leave
would not provide sustenance for a bandicoot.
Sunny Corner may l»e a good mine still, but it
will never be worked successfully unless it is tackled on
a mammoth scale and equipped with most modern ap-
pliances. And so it is with many other properties.
0 f * *
Mount David (N.S.W.) provided a big surprise
last week —a crushing of 125 tons for 1350 z. It was never
reported that they were breaking good stone or that the
crushing-mill was working. The surprise did not have
the desired effect —the only change being that the quota-
tion-makers altered their figures from b._ 7d., s. Bd., to b.
7d., s. 2s. Mt. David’s is a oase of “give a dog a bad
name.”
* • » *
Baker’s Creek (N.S.W.) has fallen from its high
estate. No div. last half-year, as over £4OOO had to be
taken from gold proceeds to provide for exploratory
work and renewals of plant. Reports do not read too
well. Directors have resolved upon “ a vigorous policy
of exploration during the coming half-year, in the hope
that new bodies of# ore may be revealed.” It is only a
hope, and the mining hope is the most deceptive. The
position clearly demonstrates neglectful management in
the past, in that development-work has not been kept
sufficiently well advanced, and no provision was made
for it by establishing a reserve fund in times of prosperity.
* ♦ * *
Coincident with the publication of a statement
that John Warren had completed his examination of the
Smith’s Creek tin mine, shares fell from 355. to 20s. Un-
sophisticated outsiders may assume that this signifies that
insiders have got the tip that the report will not be too
favorable. But the position may be reversed. It may be
that insiders have a hint that the report will be satis-
factory and have started a bear movement to frighten
timid holders and thus prepare the way for an exciting
bull market.
* * * *
Analysis of voting at Wallaroo and Moonta
meeting shows that directors saved themselves by their
own votes. Dissatisfied shareholders proposed that three
directors should be removed, and in support of this
drastic course several allegations were made, the most
serious being that the directors subordinated the interests
of the co. to those of another co. in which they were in-
terested, and with which an agreement had been made
for the disposal of valuable by-products. Directors were
distinctly on their trial as to their fitness to manage co.’s
affairs, and their action in voting as they did, was,
to put it mildly, in questionable taste. The voting
showed : For the motion, 190 persons, 49,144 shares ;
against, 222 persons, 83,611 shares. The negative
vote was made up thus : Directors (6), 13,380 shares;
directors, as trustees (10), 13,073 shares ; directors’
relations (17), 12,385 shares; foreign powers of at-
torney controlled by directors (24), 10,405 shares—totals
57 persons, 49,243 shares, leaving a balance of 165 persons,
34,368 shares ; and of the 165 it is recorded “ these
include partners and employees of directors.” At the
meeting show of hands was : for motion, 29 ; against, 32
—the latter including all the directors (except chairman)
and wives, sons and employees. If this white-washing is
satisfactory to the directors they must have great hides.
* * • *
Greymouth Lagoons dredge (one of the largest
in M.L.) was started last week, and in (say) three weeks
time shareholders should have some idea as to whether or
not they will get any of their money back. On prelimi-
nary prospecting results there ought to be no doubt as to
success. Sydney is largely interested in the venture. •
* * * *
Long Tunnel Extended Co., Walhalla (Vio.',
decided to erect a 20-head battery. It is never too late to
do a sensible thing. Co. has paid over £lOO,OOO to
another co. for crushing, more than half of which would
have been added to divs. had it had a battery of its
own. Last half-year co. won 93630z5., and paid
£12,000 in divs., besides creating a reserve of
£6OOO. Chairman said that the mine was the premier
producer in Victoria, but he was wrong, as, during the
same period, South New Moon, Bendigo, won 11,2900 z.
and paid £33,600 div., in addition to paying a large
amount for machinery. The profit of the Walhalla mine
on 28dwt. ore was under 50 per cent, of the production,
while the Bendigo mine, on much poorer ore, showed a
profit of nearly 75 per cent. This comparison is made for
the information of “Victorian,” who challenged the
accuracy of a recent Bulletin par. as to Walhalla ex-
travagance.
(Continued on page 26.)


PAVIP JONES# COMPANY
High-Class Tailors
Shirt Tailors
High-Class Hatters
Men’s Mercers
Hosiers
Glovers
FIRST DISPLAY of . . .
fleui Season’s goods for Spring and Summer, 1902-3
1 On Show Ist August.
SEORSE aod BARRACK STS., SYDNEY
WEIS brush tube PASTE
iv«sßV*\?
HAS CAUGHT ON
Susy Commercials declare it far more handy than any other make of Gum
or Paste.
Clerks in leading City Offices say it’s clean and sticks well.
Doctors use it, because it is Sanitary Proof and does not go
musty.
Office Boys
Ladies
swear by it, because the brush is always with the Paste
and it can’t spill.
favor it because it is neat and handy.
WEIS PASTE sticks well, is Cleanest and Quickest.
Ox Sale by ....
Stationers,
Druggists,
Storekeepers, &c.
In Three
Sizes—
3d., 6d., Is.
Sole Australian Agents—
Narrii)gtoi) Co. Ltd.
Photographic Merchants,
66 KING STREET,
SYDNEY.
93 QUEEN STREET,
MELBOURNE.
SOCIETY
The sudden death of the Coronation ”
-—writes The Bulletin’s London correspondent,
“ it would need the ink of leprosy and a nib from
r e -#^ll° tine ’ S e< ? g ?- to ade quately describe the
aerid bitterness of disappointment’s despair that
soaked into the very spleen of the millions here '
.Dumb and dazed with impotent and directionless
anger on the avalanche of the fateful news, this
Big Beehive fairly shivered. O, for the good old
days when some sect—not in power—might have
been held responsible ! O, for the massacres, the
rapine, and the burnings that would have fol-
lowed—for we have been hit hard, sharply, cruelly
nard, in the tenderest, most vulnerable part of
commercial mankind—in our Pockets. From
pavement-pedlar to prince, from cats’-meat-man
to Motel Carlton, from courtesan to clergyman
and from London’s apex to its subterranean base-
ment the scalding lava of disappointment has (3t.-
Pierre d m a scorching, shrivelling stream.”
* * * ,
The Prince of Wales (the little man who
yawned drearily through Australia a year ago) is
to wear the most remarkable headgear of the
Coronation” :
* « re , se ? lb ’® s an ordinary coronet, but its apex bears a
tuft of feathers tipped with gold. These are the tail
feathers of the fenwah, which is the rarest member of
the family of the bird of paradise. As the feriwah is not
only uncommon, but also frequents the haunts of tigers
its capture is a matter of the greatest danger and di/h-
-, ..Moreover, it must be caught alive and the feather
plucked from the tail of the living bird, as instantly after
death the plumage loses its lustre. The Prince of Wales’s
feathers took twenty years to collect, cost the lives of a
dozen hunters, and are worth £lO,OOO.
cruelt y nian an d beast, all these deaths
and this great expenditure to put a plume in the
hat. of the dukehng. What a monstrous super-
stition does monarchy appear in some of its
phases 1
• • » *
Gov. Chermside, of Queensland, after in-
sisting that his salary should stand in with
the charwoman’s and the Civil Service clerks’ for
retrenchment reduction, has given another proof
of manly spirit by decreeing that the names of his
guests at Government House are not to be printed
m the papers. Previous Australian Governors
ha.ve given special facilities to reporters to ascer-
tain the names of their guests ; and women (and
their husbands) fight and intrigue for invitations
to garden-parties and musical evenings at Govern-
ment House, not necessarily out of any respect to
their hosts, not from any desire “to do honor to
DON'T YOU KNOW.
HEAVY PARENT: “I Suppose you know she is my only daughter?"
LIGHT SUITOR: “ Yaas, yaas, but really, you know, that’s more of a recommendation than otherwise.”
the Throne,” but so that by the publication of their
names in the papers they can triumph over the
people who were not asked. Thus ai’ound
“ Government House ” have centred most of
the squalid squabbles, mean suburban cat-fights
and bitter feminine jealousies of “society.” When
the names of a Governor’s guests are not put in
the papers, a lot of that will be stopped. And,
reasonably considered, the advertising of a man’s
guests is snobbery of a very vulgar kind. If John
Smith asks Bill Jones to dinner it is a matter
between them, the other guests and their Creator
only; and the fact of John Smith being a Gover-
nor makes no real difference. If Smith tells the
papers he’s had Jones to dinner, it’s impertinence;
if Jones does so, it’s crawl. The non-crawling
section of the community will applaud Gov.
Ghermside’s action.
• • • •
Editor Bulletin.— Be the hideous blunder
in the Ginninderra shooting affair. Is not the
goring of rewards to the police a mistake ?
Why should the police be rewarded for simply
doing what they are paid to do? We don’t give a
reward to a tailor for having made a well-fitting
pair of trousers. The reward—if any—should be
only for those outside the “force” —“civilians,”
as they are ignorantly termed by some of the
Sydney dailies. The desire for gain leads to pre-
cipitate action, with frequently disastrous results.
Again, the practice of increasing rewards, as time
goes on, frequently defeats its own end by induc-
lng would-be captors to hang back, and thus
giving criminals more time to escape. Of course
there could be no objection to rewarding con-
stables for specially hazardous services (as soldiers
are rewarded for special acts of valor). A
‘decoration,” carrying with it a small pension,
should be sufficient incentive, if any be needed, to
policemen to do their duty.— Civis.
• * * *
Concerning the N.S.W. police :
The shocking shooting affair in the yueanbeyan district
sets people wondering how the constable is tested and
trained before he is turned out upon them with authority
in his nod and a revolver in his pocket. Of every nine
applicants eight are weeded out (the number varies ; this
is about the average). Most of the applicants are the
right, age—anything between 21 and 30. More fail in the
height and weight test—minimum forfoot-nien, sft. 10in.,
list. 101 b., 39. Vin. at the chest; for mounteds, sft. Bin.,
list., 38in. Then there is a general sizing-up, in which
mechanical tests are discarded j the preference
is given to swimmers, riders, bicycle experts,
young fellows with some knowledge of stock,
and those who, though only fair in these things,
seem to be especially alert. Those who stay in go on to
the depot, where papers are set in arithmetic and dicta-
tion (the mounteds have stiffer exam.) ; there is the
riding-test also for the mounteds. Those who fail in these
latter tests may come again. After that, police-reports
as to character, then the doctor, and for those provision-
ally accepted, the depot, where there is physical drill,
sword exercise, rifle and revolver practice, drill, and lec-
tures (at present by Supt. Cotter) in police duties and
responsibilities. The foot-men, as a rule*then go into the
metrop. district, and serve for a while with non-coms. ;
the mounteds go out with their new boots and their
revolvers to the back of the mulga, and sometimes never
get in again.
♦ • * *
As proved in the dreadful Queanbevan
shooting blunder, tattoo-marks aren’t always of
reliable assistance in identification cases. Many of
these tattoos are done by Japs, and other Orien-
tals, who keep to certain hackneyed sets of pat-
terns. Tattooed rings round fingers are very
common among seafaring folks, and the dancing
girl holding a wreath over her head is a very
common and popular design. It is fairly safe to
bet that out of every 200 tattooed sailors at least
two will be found with, in every detail, minutely-
corresponding marks. Some years ago at Chateau
Tahbilk vineyard, in the Vic. Goulburn Valley,
were two newchum sailors who had run away from
the same ship, were both of the same nationality,
and bore on left arm, middle finger of right hand,
and chest exactly the same tattoo marks ! Both
had them pricked in, at different periods, by the
same Japanese tattooer in San Francisco.
Recent S.M. Herald advt. :
TS/'ANTED, useful Christian GIRL, small family,
' ’ good home, low wages.
“ Low wages Virtue is indeed its own reward.
* * * *
Age advt. :
lyrAN, elderly, Christian, abstainer, milk, garden,
kitchen, handy tools; references ; 5/. Anxious
Pyke’s Agency, Hawthorn.
Five shillings a week ! It seems hardly worth
while being a Christian at that rate.
“ Hermes ” : An
amazing Parliament-
ary library is that of
Maoriland. Seven
years ago, or there-
abou t s, I went
through it with a
privileged friend, and
found a splendid
assortment of the
best fiction in about
seven languages. Bub
tho pride and joy of
the library was a
little side-show, in
which was a collec-
tion of French and
Spanish works in the
original tongues, but
with the indecent
stories printed in tho
plainest and baldest
English. It was by
printing the indecent
portions in a foreign
lingo that the French
and Spanish pub-
lishers had escaped
the wrath of their
own Governments.
How Maoriland got
hold of this obscure
and little-known col-
lection of dirt no
one seemed to know,
but it made a highly-
popular side-show to
the library of a moral
Parliament.
• * *
The thin, yellow
Y.M.C.A. young man
with the pale hair
and the loose, slaver-
ing mouth has had a
good deal of his holy
wrath against bar-
maids frightened out
of him by a bold sally
of the maids from the
besieged bars in Syd-
ney. They suggest in
a daily paper that,
“ before barmaids are
abolished on high
moral grounds, the
men who sell femine underwear to women in
drapery shops should be done away with.”
* * * *
Hardly a day passes without half-a-dozen
papers expressing their sorrow that “through
inadvertence the name of Mr. Smith was not
mentioned among those who sent wreaths to the
funeral of Mr. Jones,” or regretting that, “by an
oversight, the name of Mr. Smallbeer, M.L.A.,
was omitted from the list of those who attended
the reception held by the Consul for Greenland. ”
They even apologise for not mentioning that some
obscure person was on the platform at a church
function, or was included in the deputation that
saw the Mayor about getting a supply of disin-
fectant for the Johnston-st. drain. What kind of
people are the Smallbeers who thus harry the
press when their names are omitted from the tail
of some twopenny proceeding, and why does the
press apologise to them? The apology isn’t in-
teresting reading. “We deeply grieve for
having failed to mention that among those who
wept at the grave of Mr. White was Mr. Brown,”
or “by inadvertence Alderman Boggs was not in-
cluded in the list of citizens who looked on while
the body of John Smith was being got from under-
neath the tram ! ” What a wooden joke it all
amounts to!
• * • *
“F.R.” to The Bulletin :
A little sketch last week represented N.S.W. saying to
Beauchamp: “You were not a good governor.” That
may have been the opinion of the N.S W. daily papers,
but was it the case ? Beauchamp earned the bitter hatred
of the “Government-house push”—the rich snobs and
the extra smart, loud women, who used to have the
free run of the premises in Carrington’s time, who
drove the Jerseys away, and who were allowed to slap
the “jolly” Hampden on the back. These and John
Norton he fell foul of. But for practical, sympathetic,
honest effort to make the best use of his position I think
no governor of N.S.W. ever equalled Beauchamp. And
now he shows his practical affection for the community
(which hustled him out of Government House so as to be
in a better position to diddle Victoria on the Gov.-Gen.
question) by acting as the genuine friend of every Austra-
lian artist and writer who goes to London. Beauchamp
wasn’t fool enough to meddle actively in politics ; but the
only constitutional duty that fell to him (the refusal of
Mr. George Reid’s impudent request for a dissolution in
1900) he carried out firmly. He did, moreover, endeavor
to encourage art and letters and good citizenship, grudg-
ing no expense and no trouble. But Beauchamp was too
good a democrat for N.S.W. ; that was how he earned the
dislike of the snobs and of the moneyed classes.
• ■ • •
“Young man, don’t you feel well ? ” The
most prominent fact about the Ginninderra
(N.S.W.) tragedy is that the two shots (one fatal)
fired by two different persons were both dis-
charged accidentally (so the shooters say). Evi-
dently the bold pursuers of the poor chair-mender
had the “jumps” badly.
• • • •
Apropos of the fearful Mount Kembla
(N.S.W.) coal disaster, the statement of Mr.
Jonathan May, of Wollongong Technical College,
that a miner was recently dismissed in Newcastle
for reporting the existence of gas in a certain mine,
as he was required to do by law—a proceeding
FOR POKER-PLAYERS ONLY.
WIPE (knocking at bedroom-door): “John I John ! How many mart
times must I call you!”
JOHN (after a late night, drowsy and still dreaming of the game):
“Aces up.” W IFE (cheerfully): “Good!”
that might tend to cost the management a little
extra money and at the same time save dozens of
lives—calls for a whole lot of investigation. The
heroism and generosity that a management may
show after the disaster are very well in their way,
but it is 20 times more important to take all
possible precaution beforehand and have no
disaster.
* * * *
When the dead were being carried out at
Mt. Kembla a survivor was heard to sav:
“There’s friends or relatives picking out other
bodies, and claiming them, but there’s no one
here to claim poor Joe’s.” Joe had been his mate,
and they had “batched” together in a little hut
near the mines. “Look,” he continued, “this
would have been pay-night. Joe had to leave hy
this evening’s train for Sydney. To-morrow
morning his wedding was to take place. Next
week he was to return to make a home for himself
and bride ; but Joe is going to be with us for ever
and ever, and he ain’t going to have no wife.”
Another miner, who perished, left a wife who lost
her father and three brothers in the explosion at
Bulli, a neighboring mine, a few years ago ; while
one home has been deprived of five of its male
members. Some of the wheelers, and others
working near them, owed their lives to their
horses, which took them safely through the dark-
ness to the daylight tunnel. In one instance a
wheeler abandoned his horse and bolted. Two
days later the horse walked out of the mine, but
on reaching daylight it seemed to become frenzied,
and capered about eccentrically. Finally it trotted
away across the mountain.
* * » *
“ Banco ” writes to The Bulletin;—
■Re Kembla explosion. It is not so much quantity
of coal gas in a mine that causes trouble as the quantity
of dry coal dust. I was born on the southern coalfields
and have had some years practical experience in three of
the collieries. Some years after the Bulli disaster my
brother and I were driving a main heading in the old
mine. One day we fired a shot to lift a stone (a fault in
the coal seam). This caused the coal dust to fire, with
the result that the heading became for a second one mass
of flame. A second catastrophe was averted by the simple
use of water to lay the dust upon the roadways. Then any
explosion was harmless beyond the watered flat a fewyards
back. On one occasion the manager of Bulli colliery experi-
mented upon coal-dust, and found it to be as explosive as
gunpowder. Colliery explosions may be prevented by
mines being kept free of gas, by means of a powerful
draught of air sweeping through every part of them ; and
by the liberal use of water upon the roads. Gas is often
allowed to accumulate in old works which are not reached
by the draught; the trouble comes when a person enters
one of these with a naked light.
* * * *
The futility of human plans ! At the trial
of the Kenniff brothers for the alleged murder of
manager Dahlke and Constable Doyle, one wit-
ness, a brother officer, deposed that on March 29
(the day on which he was last seen) Doyle came to
him and said that he was going out to arrest Jim
and Pat Kenniff on a charge of horse-stealing, and
that he would be back in time to catch the mail.
He seems to have caught the last mail—the very
last one.


Wild’s, in the Sydney Arcade, is the most
fashionable gentlemen’s hairdressing saloon in
Sydney. Every attention possible is paid to the
customers by six expert hairdressers. Adress. —
30 Sydney Arcade, entrance from George-street
or King-street, Sydney.*
-l Dis is woT
1 grov/d OS /v
Mm > r i
lli trade M rrr \
iwm a
ctori
un-SB
fsdfdsf
pa
k
df
i»=muiiy
An Evangelist-Torrey story, told through
the nose by the Yankee gent to illustrate the
power of the Word :
At one of my N’Yark meetings a prahminent citizen
said he was ready to ac-cept sa-alvation, and prahmised
to ac-cept it right there. He afterwards kahmplained to
me that he felt none of the e-lation and jye that he had
been led to ex-pect he would feel at the moment of kahn-
version. “ Never mind that, my friend,” 1 said, “ the
feeling will come along ahl right; keep on believing.”
The new Kahnvert left the meeting-haowse right then,
looking mighty glum. But the jye was sure to ar-rive,
as I had said. Sure enough, a while after, a friend found
him leaning for support against a lamp-post up street.
He said he was so chockful of holy jye and de-vine
ecstasy that he r’ally could naht stand. This is a pahsi-
tive fact! (Great applause.)
* * » •
Evangelist Torrey (pronounced Tory) and
his singing mate, Alexander, claim to have roped
in 2000 “converts” in Hobart. The variety show
staged by these pushing Yanks drew like a blister
for 10 consecutive nights, and, undoubtedly, their
efforts have given the almost deserted churches a
much-needed lift. A favorite song, in which the
audience joins enthusiastically, is something about
an “old-time religion” that “was good enough
for Moses and is good enough for me.” The refrain
goes:
’Tis the old-time religion,
The old-time religion,
It’s good enough for Torrey (say)
It’s good enongh for me.
Torrey, it appears, is salaried by some religious
organisation in the land of wooden hams, but
Alexander, it is understood, has to depend on
what he can catch. The last day’s collections of
the Hobart season came his way and totalled CO
sovs. He returned effusive thanks; then the
audience, without a smile, sang “’Tis the old-
time religion ! ”
* * * •
The leading Adelaide lawyers are having
stirring times. Symon and Downer dropped
Federal disputes to return home and fight against
each other in a long lunacy case, and now in a
long divorce case. Symon took a morning off to
go to a mining co. quarrel, where he was told by his
Senate President that he was not speaking the
truth, and knew it ; to which he replied in kind.
Gordon is conducting controversies with two dis-
tinct crowds who protest against sweeping state-
ments in his recent speeches, and Nesbit has
quarrelled with his client in aforesaid divorce-
case, and thrown up his brief in the middle of it.
•» * * »
The doings of Paris Nesbit, the brilliant
K.C., are again attracting general attention in
Adelaide. After two days of a sensational divorce
case, in which he appeared for the rev. co-respon-
dent, he went away and swore informations
against a should-be witness on his own side, with
the father and a solicitor, for conspiracy to keep
the youth out of the way when wanted. He also
started to prosecute for “conspiracy” several of
the witnesses, who had not yet appeared, on the
other side ! He announced that he did this against
his clients’ wishes, but in pursuance of his own
duty as a King’s Counsel. After which it hardly
came as a surprise, when the Court met again, to
find Nesbit abandoning his brief, which Downer
took up. Then Symon mentioned to a shocked
Court the awful “contempt” of intimidating
witnesses, for which he would ask for a committal
unless “ the parties concerned ” amended their
ways. The Supreme Court is an immovable body
to buck up against, but Nesbit is just the “irre-
sistible force ” to take it on.
• * * *
An old man and an old woman have been
docked of-their weekly dole of 10s. by Albury Old
Age Pension Board for living immoral lives and
being addicted.to “insobriety.” The pair had
lived together without being married. The idea
of anold couple—the man aged 77 years
and a permanent cripple leading “immoral
ives ”is not devoid of humor; but anyway, for
FACE-VALUE.
No. 3: “I must really go home and yet Henry his tea. ”
DEAR FRIEND : “ Can’t the servant yet it? You’re not jealous, and your
girl is all right.”
No. 3: “ But I am sorry to say my husband’s taste in jeminine beauty is
NOT conspicuous.”
the five-hundredth time, if the man who gets a
State pension of £5OO or £l5OO a year may be as
immoral or as drunk as he chooses to be, without
the fear of having his pension stopped, why is not
the same code applied to his less fortunate, poor,
old ten-bob-a-week brother?
, *
T , c ,
Mr. Charles Oliver, whom Premier bee
proposes to send to Norfolk Island to report on
the state of affairs, social and political, at that
troublous spot, did a similar duty six years ago,
and his exhaustive report was practically pigeon-
holed The report went into the hands'.of the
then Lands Minister Carruthers, and was treated
' , chief! v confidential Mr. Oliver’s
as being clpedy connaeimai ivxr. y _
private secretary prepared some Duel notes
for publication, but Mr. Carruthers made it known
that he and His Ex. were the only..persons with a
claim on the report. Parliament should watch
this time, and, if hugger-mugger be tried, put
down a healthy foot.
THE HALF-CROWN HORROR—A BACK-
WASH OF THE SYDNEY TRAGEDY.
OLD GENTLEMAN : “ Will you let me have an
EVENING NEWS. I must ask you to change
me half-a-crown.”
SMALL G IRL: “’ Arf-a-crown!!! Mummer , quick!
’Ere’s the murderer !”
“Frank M.” : Francis Bacon (Goodooga,
not Verulam), fighting the squatters’ battle, un-
intentionally tells us why the A.W.TJ. was
formed. “When I was squatting about Deuili-
quin the shearers used to pay 4d. per lb. for flour ;
same for sugar; 3s. for tea; and 4s. 7d. a week
each for extras.” Now, how much did those
commodities cost the stations ? There has been a
lot of mean work about station rations and station
charges. The taint of lagdorn —“beasts’ feed for
beasts’ work,” and “ eight ten, two and a-quarter
—is about it yet.
* * * *
There was much growling amongst the
jurors, lawyers and others engaged in the Edgar
inquest at Armidale (N.S.W.), because the
coroner, personally and protractedly, wrote out
the depositions. The old gentleman has “coro-
nated ” for upwards of half-a-century; nis
pace was not a “ cracker,” and he had no objection
to “ wasting the time of the court.”
Petersham
(Sydney) cemetery
still worries the
authorities. Owing
to the spread of
population, fur-
ther interments in
the cemetery have
for some time past
been prohibited in
the interests of the
public health, but
those who possess
land or a vault
therein still con-
tinue to bury their
relatives. Under
the bye-laws such
offenders are fined
£5, or £lO, for such
offence, but as
they are invariably
wealthy persons,
who prefer Peter-
sham cemetery for
sentimental rea-
sons, the fines
don’t stop them.
Now the police
have started to get
the undertakers
fined. One was
mulct in £5, the
other day, and
another (for the
second offen c e)
£lO. But these
fines are, of course,
paid by the parties
who ordered the
funerals, so the
position is in nowise improved.
*,*, * * ,
R e “For home and bleeding country,
An officer at a recent week’s camp (Q.) had his
Glovt. pay docked, and his Federal allowance left
him £2 on the wrong side of the ledger. A cadet
patriot was mulct of his week’s salary, minus
4s. lid. “Heaven-born financing” is being re-
duced to a fine art.
* * * *
a correspondent to The Bulletin ;
Things were pretty lively on R.M.S. Rome judging by
inters from members of the Coronation Contingent. The
m en were told at the barracks that they were going as
second-class passengers, but after passing Gibraltar they
were asked to sign as third-class and also to holystone the
This they refused to do> and heave d the stones
of the t h^leg Toby Barton and Bigjohn Forrest,
w 0 j sa ] ve ( 0 b e wounded feelings of the men, sent
tbem two dozen bottles of beer. This was returned
by tbe men with a rude arithmetical calculation as to the
amount of salve 140 men could get out of 24 bottles of
she-oak.
“F.C.”: Little Linda
(set. 10) brought home from
her State school, t’other
day, an apron—built for
an 18st. woman, 6ft. high,
and an under - garment
erected on similar gener-
ous lines. She took no
interest in them, and had
merely stitched and
hemmed them because she
was told ; also as her
mother is a small woman,
they are of no use. The
littie girls next door at-
tend the Catholic school,
and they begin their sew-
ing lessons on little gar-
ments for their own dolls,
advancing to small pinnies
for themselves. Seems to
me these directors of educa-
tion and school inspectors
might learn something from
this.
• » *
R.C. papers in N.S.W.
express some consternation at
the fact that the proportion of
“mixed marriages” is rapid-
ly increasing, and the E.C.
girl and the It.C. boy show
a growing disinclination to
consider theological issues
in arranging their life-
, plans. Naturally, from a
' sectarian point of view,
this is alarming, as it
shows a weakening of the
antagonisms which are
the breath of life to
“churches”; but to the
community it is gratifying.
It suggests that the time is
not far distant, in this coun-
try at least, when the Dill-
Macky will lie down in peace
with the O’Donovan and
religious strife be known no more.
Parson Perry having re-united in holy
matrimony the two rival Sydney art societies, and
made honest man arid wife of them again, “ the
wedding-breakfast” was held at the Oafe Francais
last Thursday. Mr. Lister-Lister being host.
There were many protestations of perfect harmony
—and a good deal of “ chucking-off ”at the Other
cat by some members. Mr. Arthur Collingndge
suggested that the united society should apply
for a charter to constitute itself “the Royal
Academy of Australia” —and then citizen Col-
lingridge aforesaid proceeded to vigorously
sing the “Marseillaise.” Mr. Julian Ashton and
Mr. Souter urged the other fellows not to be such
asses again with such eloquence that a riot ought
to have followed, but Mr. Lister-Lister poured oil
on the troubled waters. His voice is all for peace,
and under his guidance, the united society may
yet achieve perfect harmony, and perhaps give to
the world a great symbolical picture, in which
Lister-Lister will paint the sad sea-shore, and
Collingridge put in the atmosphere, and Ashton
an unrobed lady, and Leist some clothes on the
lady, and Sid Long a nice green-blue moon, and
Souter and Garlick fill up with a few weirdities of
the animal world.
. • * •
The men who lifted £3OOO worth of opal
from the White Cliffs mail, while it was under
armed escort, last January, did not leave many
tracks behind; and at the Police Court hearing
there was no direct evidence of the robbery
against any of the three who are charged with it.
The police have had their eyes turned only one way
all the time; but until the stolen gem, or what
they think is the stolen gem, was put on the mar-
ket they were helpless. There is evidence now
that Burgess sent opal across from Broken Hill
to White Cliffs to sell; M‘Gregor carried it;
Stanbury dealt with it at the other end. These
are the three accused. M‘Gregor appears
to licivo already made a statement that
he understood from Burgess that the stuff
was “crook” and that there was plenty more to
go across ; there are mysteriously-worded letters
between Burgess and Stanbury ; there is positive
identification of some of the stone sold by Stan-
bury as stone that was included in the stolen
mail; there is evidence of Burgess riding up one
other night to the changing-camp where the rob-
bery took place and asking how long the coach
had gone; and there are many other little bits
that may mean much, or nothing. There isn’t a
more popular man in the mulga country than
Burgess. Stanbury was for many years town
clerk of Wilcannia. M‘Gregor, who was not
defended in the police-court, is of another stamp
—a little old man well known in racing stables.
* * * *
News of the latest midnight murder-trial
comes from South Australia. After a long day,
the C.J. “started to sum up at 7.30 and finished
about 8.30. He concluded the reading of the
evidence at 11.10, when the jury retired.” The
jury:—it was at Pt. Pirie—took no risks (South
Australians don’t take hanging risks when they
can help it), and shortly after midnight said
“ Not guilty.”
During the past five years there has been no
hanging in South Australia, and there were. only
three in the seven years before that. No aborigine
has gone through the scaffold in that State for 12
years. (The “scaffold” in S.A., by the way, is
the dead-end of an upper-storey passage in the
gaol, provided with a trap-door. You walk along
the corridor, stand facing the wall, alone if you
prefer it, the attendants being in the room along-
side, and in a second or two you are in the lower
storey.) Also, last year, no prisoner underwent
separate or solitary confinement in S.A. gaols,
except as gaol punishment; and in this connec-
tion, strangely enough, more females than males
suffered. There has been no flogging for years.
¥ * * *
The woman who carries her purse in her
hand isn’t always such a fool as she seems. A
couple of “snatchers,” who had followed such a
one from an adjacent bank to the big cheap-sale
emporium, grabbed her purse and did a record
“steeple” down the street and over two fences
before being caught. The lady’s apparent want
of interest in the matter was explained when the
purse was opened. It contained 3|d. Having
seen the two safely in custody, she extracted some
notes from her bosom and went inside to sample
the bargain-counter.
The latest girl-story (from Melbourne)
rests on better evidence than usual, inasmuch as
the victim is suffering from being shot three times,
from nervous shock, bruises, gravel-rash, loss of
hair, from having sand forced down her throat,
and other damage. As usual, her best boy is the
person accused; true affection has a tendency in
some quarters to break out in assault and battery.
The story goes that the pair had sat together for
an hour, during which he poured forth his
tale of affection. Afterwards he knocked her
down, pounded her on the face and head
with a cheap pin-fire revolver, shot at her three
times with the inefficient instrument grazing her
each time, filled her mouth with sand, helped her
up, tore her clothes and her hair, and pounded her
some more with the revolver. When he left off,
and the girl got to her feet again, he is said to
have remarked pleasantly, as one dispassionately
considering the case, that he didn’t “know how
she stood it ” and offered to take her to town
and wash the blood off her. Even after
all this she managed to get home and
pluckily dressed her wounds herself,_ and next
morning, when her shocking condition led to
inquiry, she refused to give particulars, and did
her best to avoid the advertisement usually
pertaining to such cases. The persistent hanging
round of an excited young man, and the inter-
cepting of a letter, in which he promised not to
pound his best girl any more, led to the arrest of
a young man who was “quite calm.” The calm-
ness of all parties to the case appears to be much
above the average.
* * ♦ *
Twenty-one lady-teachers left Sydney for
S’Africa last week. Eighteen others joined them
in Melbourne. They are going to take charge of
the new schools set up in the recent republics—
Australia sent her warlike sons
To battle for the Right.
They took away the Boers’ guns
And finished up the fight.
And now, while bells of peace are rung,
And ended is the Loot,
Her daughters go to teach the young
Idea how to shoot!
TOLD IN THE MOONLIGHT.
“Gov. Rawson and family are believers in homeo-
pathy.”—NEWS ITEM.
JONES (2 a.m., after lodge-meeting): “How did
you get on at the shivoo at Govt. House lash
night?”
SMITH: “ Dunno; I got sick and tried the’omeo-
pathic cure, but I mush have taken an over-
dose for I couldn’t get ’ome all night.”
“ H.” : I was in a grocery shop with a
man to whom the grocer gave a bad half-crown.
Recipient at once took up a hammer and smashed
the coin on the counter. The grocer was furious.
“ What ! ’’ said the other “ Are you going to pass
base coin ? Hold your tongue.” He did.
« » * •
Sydney Mint flew its flag half-mast last
week because of the death of one Seymour,
Deputy-Master of the Mint in London. Sydney-
Mint owes allegiance primarily to London, much
as Gov. Rawson does, though the people of
N.S.W. must keep up both.


Do you like Coffee?
Perfect, Pure,
Fragrant, Exhilarating Coffee
Then Try
H. SOUTH'S
Gold
Medal
Coffee Essence]
THE VERY BEST
Australian Representatives:
SWIFT 6. COMPANY,
7 SPRING BTREET,
SYDNEY.
sdsfd
Dress fAßßies
Are Stocked bv the
sj[ Leading Drapers. ..
maVkTHC varnished board
FACILE PRINCEPS
SEMPER IDEM.
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
P.D. Corsets }
Latest Specialty, Straight Front, Erect Form
I P.D. Corsets
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
~ _ , Sydney, August 5, 1902.
My Dear Arini.—
A fine garden-scene, staged with musical
accompaniments, by their State Exes, when they
At Homed ” Sydney people in sections on two
consecutive days. The 17 acres of “ Cranbrook ”
background, lawn and hill, and nook, and curly
walk, and rooky crescent-way ;of tree and flower
and vine, overlooking blue sea and grey-green
coastlines, are immense aids to the vice-regal stage-
manager. Bland Holt would have managed the
wind of the first matinee better. It was a day
of 70 in the shade, with a horrid north-westerly,
that blew white sand into eyes and fruit-salads
u P set the tables, and set flapping the canvas
of refreshment-tents. It unfurled hair, but
wouldn t tolerate unfurled sunshades, and com-
pelled guests to orientate themselves as un-
animously as even the new rector of St. John’s,
JDarlinghurst, might desire.
i the second day was perfect, and when the
band hymned out the Get-Ye-Goneof the National
Anthem, the sinking sun made a golden wave-
way across the bay to the edge of the shore below
the Cranbrook ” wall—a path that seemed to
invite their weary Exes, with their swollen right
hands to come away and walk into the sunset’s
rim and peace. Not to walk on their hands, of
course.
In the half-light of the “Cranbrook” hall th®
Rawson trio stood to receive, attended by Captain
Holman, who held his new regulation William of
Germany cap in his hand, andlooked at it intently,
? S j- 1 ? were a beloved photograph, when anyone
he didn’t know was announced. Lady Rawson in
black, embroidered in cream silk, with primroses
in her toque and white feather boa ; her daughter
in pink cloth and black hat and pretty etceteras
m the of collar, and roses and lace. First
day’s “At Home” was attended principally by
persons of whom the second day’s gathering says
it never heard. Second day’s gathering was
attended by people of whom the first-dayers say
they have heard altogether too much. Official,
ministerial, and consular folk gilded the first day’s
assembly. The Wises—also the Sees, Kidds,
Perrys, O’Sullivans and a lot of ordinary M.’sP.
and their wives. A young local musician squired
the State Premier’s wife. In the daily-paper list
of guests he was credited with a wife (which the
poor thing hasn’t got), and he has been busy ever
since repelling congratulatory wires and words.
France’s vice-consul, aristocratically lean, diplo-
matically expressionless, looked after the yearnings
of ladies whose husbands are the Heads of Some-
thing. „
Dressing on both days was representative of
winter and summer—transparent sleeves and
tailor-mades and furs. One who wore a
tight-fitting coat of golden-brown fur, barred with
darker stripes, made the mistake of having a grey
skirt instead of carrying out the warm tortoise-
shell-cat etfect with a brown one. There was a
remarkable hat down on the tennis-court, where a
large cluster of small tables was set with the
kind of food that spoils your dinner. What was
under the hat was eating old-rose ice-cream, and
now and then the spoon would catch in a trail of
tiger-lilies that hung from what looked like a
Portuguese man-o’-war sailing on, the brim of the
hat. There was a lovely pale-green gown, em-
broidered with raised chiffon flowers, but it was too
early Spring-like for the robust, Summer-colored
matron who wore it. Everybody was delighted
with everything, but Society is badly in need of two
words to take the place of “charming” and
“smart.” The Rawsons were “charming”; so
was the view, and the sea, and the day, and the
motor-car that- puffed in the dust below, and the
band ; even the coffee was “ charming ” ; and their
friends were either “smart” or not “smart.” I
had some fowls, Indian-game breed, upstanding,
stylish-looking birds, recommended to me the
other day by a society man as “ very smart
fowls to have about a place.”
the strangers within “Cranbrook”
gates was Franz Wilczek, the Austrian-American
violinist, who is here on a vacation. He had the
intention of filling some of the empty time with
concerts, but his friend, Gerardy’s, failure to
make a financial success of his Australian tour
has warned the violinist not to take risks where
music is at neap tide. Wilczek is a beautifully-
tailored, short-haired young man with a deep
cleft in his chin and an abiding love for fox-
terriers and birds. A while ago I saw in an
American paper a cartoonlet of him escap-
ing from a burning hotel with a cage of
birds in his hand. He had remembered
them, but forgotten his violins. A New York
paper says that, apart from being one of the
world’s great violinists, he is the fad of the smart
set along the Atlantic coast. Now, isn’t it strange
to call a man a “fad,” as if he were ping-pong or
a motor. One thing impressed Mr. Wilczek at
the “ Cranbrook ” “At Home,” and that was the
number of men there. Half the crowd was male.
At a function of the sweilest kind in New York,
there would probably be not one man, or not more
than three.
. Fashion of shading hands is said to be going
into limbo. This ought to be good news for
Governors and Mayors. At the Rawson recep-
tion, one woman was seriously reproached by an-
other for shaking hands with the A.D.C.’s.
•Their uniforms,” she said, “should have pro-
tected them.” The new play, “With
Colors,” at the Lyceum, is a fine lesson on the
etiquette due to uniformed men.
Iris blossomed and beamed (I believe she is
a rainbow as well as a flower) to a crowded house
for the first time in Australia, last Saturday.
Pinero s Iris is a widow (charm 1). She is beauti-
ful (charm 2). She has the grace of a cat, and the
sensuousness of one; and she has the soul of a
sparrow Several men love her according to their
kind, and Pinero has made a great play of its kind
on her rainbow moods. For choice accessories and
environment Iris had a taste, but no more mind to
toil or spin than the lilies; she was that kind of
flower which likes to get through the world without
hard labor. Ins contains a really beautiful study
m flats (no reflection intended on the intellects of
the men m love with her- 1 mean the furnishing
of flats) and epigrams; also a twentieth-century
Romeoand Ju iet”scene in the villaon LakeComo.
Mr. Lovell, as the lover, is long-legged, his trousers
turned up his coat collar lifted, looking like a
secretary-bird stepping about with a kind of high-
shouldered grace. Mr. Lovell’s elocution suggests
a. lack of palate, and he nearly wrecks the last
tragic scene with Iris when he drops his head,
witn its incipent bald spot, on a cushion fair over
against the audience. Of course, men go bald at
25, but the young stage-lover shouldn’t dare to do
so. Iris is just the kind of woman who would see
a man’s whole life’s love go down in a day if there
were cake-crumbs on his mo. at the psychological
moment.
Frederick Maldonado, Spain in his blood, is
the more lovable of the two lovers. He is the
kind of savage that would, awhile back, club the
lady of his choice and drag her to his nuptial cave
by the hair ; nowadays he uses a cheque-book, and
the traction is quite as sure and more seemly.
“Iris” is beautifully staged, particularly the
villa on the lake of Como —the forget-me-not blue
of lake and sky, the white houses in the green
dusk of the hillsides ; the suggestion of sleep and
heat without the villa, and of passion within. It’s
a Swinburnian atmosphere.
Iris doesn’t give Mrs. Brough any remarkable
dress chances. She gets poor in a most becoming
gown of grey cloth with touches of pink, and she
has a blue evening dress with a white underdress,
but the black embroidery on it narrows her
shoulders. She has also a very sweet, fashionably-
made, black crSpe de chine in which to bitterly
regret the past. I’ve seen persons going through
a potsherd period in worse clothes.
There’s a trifle of really cunning business in the
first act, when the excited, love-stricken Iris impul-
sively scribbles the fatal note to Maldonado. She
rushes it into the envelope, seizes a jonquil out of
a vase, and, with the wet stalk, feverishly damps
the flap and seals it down. I tried it this morning,
hurry and all, but didn’t get up any thrill, as I
was only writing to the gas-man to oome and stop
the leak.
Gov. Rawson has been speaking at a Salvation
Army function, and amongst the wooden beads
which he strung was this : “ Only the sick know
what it is to feel that there is a kind man or
woman sitting at one’s bedside reading the gospel.
Bible-reading and prayer at the bedside come
home to the sick.” Now who manufactured that
for His Ex. ? I feel sure he’s too honest to go in
for brummagem himself, and wouldn’t be sur-
prised if it were Capt. Holman. Fancy someone
with a voice like a nutmeg-grater reading those
portions of the Bible which deal with Predestina-
tion to a convalescent! Think of the voice of the
average Salvationist and of his elocution. Think
of having the Bible read to you when you want to
sleep. If the Gov. practises what he preaches I
can understand why Mr. Rowe isn’t getting well
in a hurry. Capt. Watt had better stop intoning
Job at him.
“The Queen’s Coronation dress has arrived
from Paris,” writes the Soldene, “in charge of
four French modistes. The dress is of cloth of
gold, veiled with cream silk muslin, and traced
with Indian embroidery sent from India by Lady
Curzon •, embroidery on tulle, of roses, shamrocks
and thistles, marvellously worked in gold and
silver thread. The train of royal purple velvet is
twenty yards long.” Five feet five of queen—
twenty yards of tail! On the Queen’s accession,
a score of English writers told us that she
was using her personal influence to induce local
royalties and peeresses to get their Coronation
gowns made in England, and that she herself
would certainly set the example. Now we hear
the dress, body and bones and tail, comes from
Paris (and India).
Local musical critics and musicians are trying
to make up by the warmth of their praise for the
coldness of the public to ’cellist Gerardy. The
gublic somewhat shamefacedly talks about there
eing no money in the place, that our exports
have all ceased, that we are going to be dependent
for beef and mutton on M.L. and the Argentine,
and that now (even to-day) there is a Federal
vessel coming into Woolloomooloo wharf with
2500 sheep baa-ing on deck and the same number
frozen below, and that the outlook is, etc. Then
it runs and books seats for “San Toy.” Any-
how, if Gerardy has lost heavily by his Australian
tour he has gained something : he is engaged to a
nice girl, Australian, handsome, musical and well-
dowered, and daughter of one of the most popular
and charming women in our country.
On her return from Brisbane, Mr. J. C.
Williamson will allow Miss Amy Castles to give
a concert in Sydney Town Hall in aid of the
sufferers by the Mt. Kembla mine disaster. Amy
has been “doing” the minor towns of the
Commonwealth.
Melba’s outcoming is thus told by the British
Australasian (whose somewhat gorgeous story
gets considerable contradiction from an authorita-
tive quarter): “Four cabins will be knocked
into one for her use, and her own grand piano
will be fixed on board. She will travel with her
own chef, two secretaries, and her usual retinue
(what on earth is that?). A supply of wine is
also being shipped to Australia for her use, and
her father, Mr. David Mitchell, is having a
superb team of four horses specially trained for
her use.” This horse item sounds as though she
was going to do something in a circus.
Kindly Captain Cargill, who used to command
old R.M.S. Australia, which ran between San
Fran, and Auckland, died last week at Neutral
Bay, Sydney, at the age of 61. After a long in-
terlude of life on land, he returned to sea work
entering the employ of the Pacific Island Co.’
Only the week before last he was appointed one
of the assessors to the Court of Marine Inquiry.
His wife, well-known and esteemed for her philan-
thropic work, is one of the daughters of the late
Captain Moodie.
Our old friend, Louis “ Torpedo ” Brennan is
again an inventor. Not a slaughter-engine this
time, but a leg-saver, a contrivance which is a
special kind of steel rail to assist in mounting
upstairs. The handle is grasped and a button at
its base pressed by the thumb. The handle at
once proceeds upwards, parallel to the hand-rail,
mu in £f a very great help in making the ascent.
Ihe degree of pressure brought to bear by the
thumb on the button of the handle regulates the
pace. You can rush up or go slowlv. On being
released the handle returns of its own accord to
the foot of the stairs. When the contrivance is in
use perhaps the two-storeyed house won’t be such a
horror to the “general” and housemaid.
My Brisbane correspondent writes
“ One remarkable feature of Brisbane Hospital
reports this year is that “The Lady Bowen”
(maternity), “The Children’s,” and the “Lady
Lamington,” managed and controlled by women
doctors and nurses, and financed by women, can
purchase additional space, show substantial bank-
balances, and yet keep the institutions thoroughly
equipped with up-to-date appliances.
“Queensland’s Governor apparently dislikes
ceremony of any kind, and spends a good deal of
time in commanding or imploring the public to sit
down. However, the public is a oeremony-loving
one and bobs up serenely every time His _ Ex.
appears on the scene. It sits down when it is
told, of course, but the lesson never lasts long, and
he will have a busy time drilling his people in the
way-at-ease he wishes them to go. Lucky for the
buoyant Governor his aide was born old and acts
as ballast when Sir Herbert’s youthful heart
Brompts him to any injudicious enthusiasm.
aptain Harman doesn’t dance, doesn’t golf,
doesn’t play polo, isn’t gregarious, either where
women or men are concerned, and is blas4 to a
degree ; and yet this hardened cynic has the pink-
and-white coloring which, out here at any rate,
only belongs to the very youthful. He is the sort
of man you'd call ‘ sonny ’ on his appearance, and
* your reverence ’ on his conversation.
My Melbourne correspondent writes:—
“Once more there is a postponement of the
Vice-regal shivoo. The cards for the Coronation
evening spree were out for Friday (Bth), but, a
police carnival interfering, the affair was post-
poned until Monday evening (11th). It is puzzling
Melbourne to know why a police jollification
should interfere with Lord Tennyson’s entertain-
ment. Do his guests need so much watching ?
“The vogue of the draped dress is augured by
all the prophetesses of the chiffon world, yet the
one worn by Mdlle. Dolores at her first concert
scarcely commended itself. But the dear, delight-
ful Dolores is over-stout for classic drapery, and
the sun-set red material, with its sparkling of
silver stars, that swathed her figure and was
looped up on the left side over a fall of wide
white silk frills, was scarcely suitable. It
was a variegated gown, with ancient bead-fringe
dangling over the fat part of the arm, a lace
drape hanging despond ingly from the corsage,
and some severe red and pink camellias fastened
in at the side. A full square yoke and thick collar
rather gave a bunchy effect to the body, and the
precious throat appeared (though without cause)
to be muffled up. The afternoon harvest of
flowers reaped by the artiste was a particularly
fine one.
“ The sweetness of Dolores’ smile lingers long
in the mind, when the ear has lost the flow of her
notes. Who can challenge this superb artist for
radiant good humor? In repose, the fresh, round
face has some of the qualities of the pictured
Madonnas, but when it lights up with smiles, an
expression of rare roguishness and overflowing
happiness is uppermost. Her platform ease is a
study in B. Natural. She rests squarely on her
feet, lets her arms fall naturally, and, waiting for
the song cue, stands a picture of quiet ease, sim-
plicity, and almost lazy grace. Dolores is the
antipodes to the ‘ intense ’ artiste.
“Lady Tennyson is Said to have drawn a long
face over the extensive working-quarters of the
‘big glass house on the hill.’ She is consulting the
oracle of economy, as to the means of best keeping
within the narrow margin of allowances. She can
learn a thing or two from the manner of the Ston-
ington reg me, where only half the house is kept
in daily use.
“The Tennysons have started on a rigorous
course of duties. In spite of the outting winds,
sharp showers, and bleakness of Saturday, their
Exes, put in an appearance at the Caulfield Races.
The Gov. Clarkes were there, too, and a few blue-
nosed, Polar-furred, dull Sassiety flu'tterers faced
the music for their sakes.
“Nellie Stewart’s best advt. of her recovery to
health, after a lung-trouble had laid her up for
repairs, was made by her gorgeous appearance in
town on Thursday and Friday. An exquisite grey
outfit was the garb of Thursday, a symphony in
smoke-grey, uninterrupted by any other color.
For ornament, it depended on a very hip-expand-
ing cut, with wide French hems circling the waist
and continuing steadily to the skirt-edge. The
bodice was all deep hems, in modified Russian
style. A grey felt hat of plateau build was poised
rather precipitately over the forehead. Nellie
Stewart carried nothing in her hands, letting her
brief train take care of itself. It is only one
woman in a hundred who can carry empty hands
with any degree of grace. The Stewart is one.
“Flowers and applause accentuated the warmth
of ‘Sweet Nell’s’ welcome back to Melb. (August
2nd). Nellie Stewart, a shade thinner in the face
than when here last, now impersonates a sweeter,
less boisterous Gwynne than of yore. Sentiment,
rather than swagger, flavors the ‘ Orange Girl’s ’
latest phase. Nellie Stewart’s new spinnet cos-
tume, like turquoises showered on pink-lily petals,
is almost as artistic (especially when the magic of
the limelight merges its pinks and blues into a
rosy blush, shot with azure) as its predecessor,
which suggested sunrise on a strand of opal and
pearl.
“Charles 11., according to chronicles of his
time, ‘invented the pastime of sauntering.’
Judging by stage samples of his Court, he popu-
larised the queerest brand of laughter ever heard.
Harcourt Beattie, as the Merry Monarch, tinkles
off like a delirious mandoline. Albert Gran’s
bogey man version of Jeffreys splutters and
guffaws himself nearly into epileptic hysterics.
Lovelace hee-haws, and even ‘Sweet Nell’ takes
a joke noisily. Maybe, sotto voce glee came into
vogue later.
“Recent pictures of King Ned recall many
features and much of the expression that Henry
VIII. wears in that famous painting in the
National Gallery, where his royal Nibs bends in
courtly appeal over the fair, tranquil hand of
Anne Boleyn. The Falstaffian chest is the same;
the heavy features, the rather engulfed eyes, the
fleshy cheeks, the brown beard and hair, the whole
expression suggests resemblances to Henry the
Amorous which haunt one.
“Rumors of a unique-looking cancelling of the
marriage vows reach society ears. The pair in
question parted on the day, some 13 years ago,
the vows of eternal love, honor and obedience
were breathed. Since then, the woman, who is
very lovely and well-dowered, lived in the most
exclusive and circumspect single-maiden state.
The man left Australia and passed his existence
according to his fancy. At last the shackles have
been torn free, and certain R.C. religious scruples
set at rest. The freed beauty resumes her old
name, but takes on the prefix * Mrs.’ The sanc-
tion of the Pope was gained before a Court of
Justice loosened the bonds.
“Many incongruities about that ‘Circus Girl’
show vex the playgoer’s soul. One is the idiotic
sight of the lost, stolen or strayed convent girl
(Carrie Moore) squatting on a work-a-day trunk in
the middle of a busy Paris thoroughfare. She
evinces no surprise at her stranded position, and
when her sweetheart heaves in sight (he is the only
man in Paris that she knows) still she evinces no
honest surprise. And when a cuddlesome duet
ensues, the convent chick carries her part of the
hug off with a oonfidenoe, a proficiency, and a
girl-of-the-world air that send all preconceived
notions about convents into a cocked hat. There
is no sincerity in the art of Carrie Moore. She is
amazingly clever in some ways, but the part of the
ingenue she will never present with any truth.
A covert, knowing, audacious smile lurks about
her mouth all through every performance, and as
a Convent Girl she is not even an amusing
caricature.
“The troubles of the Women’s Hospital Cat-
mittee are as yet in their infancy. The resigna-
tions of Mrs. Gresswell and Mrs. Nicholson are
viewed with alarm by those in the know. Those
two matrons were intelligent and humane. The
most genial of all the Catmittee was Mrs. F.
Lang, and that cheery dame resigned months ago,
when the dominant party began to show its claws.
“ The evils of amateur mumming begin to come
to a head. The other day an aspiring Irving, who
is deserting his commercial concerns for mimic
stagecraft, figured in the insolvency lists. Proud
man can’t be dressed in a little brief stage beauty
without paying for it.
“ Melbourne’s wealthiest bachelor has just re-
turned from Harbourville with the news of his
engagement to one of its charmers.
“Rev. Walter Fellows, recently dead, spent
most of his life as incumbent of Toorak’s most
fashionable temple. Mr. Fellows, a handsome,
stout, upstanding cleric, was a survival of the type
of reverend who saw no harm in a game of whist,
a good dinner and the agreeable things of life,
generally, so long as he manfully did his duty,
according to his own conception thereof. Two of
Mr. Fellows’ pretty daughters made excellent
marriages; one is Mrs. Millear, of ‘ Edgarley,’
near Ararat, the other is Mrs. Bailey.
“ There was much writing on shirt-fronts at a
dinner party in a Collins-street cafe the other
night, when certain inter-State sports feasted with
the Mayor and found Sir Sam merry of tongue.
The linen-marking was introduced by a South
Australian, and, before the dinner ended, every
bit of starched ‘ dicky ’ was closely covered with
hieroglyphic characters and sketches. One shirt
front, a perfect gallery of autographs, is to be
framed and preserved as a quaint curio in linen
of man’B idiocy.
“An Adelaide Demosthenes in petticoats is in
Melbourne agitating her sisters to establish a
‘political economy’ centre, from which several
branches may emanate in extension fashion. This
vigilant person wants womankind to prepare to
use the suffrage wisely and well, by an under-
standing of matters political. But it is a mere
fragment of the feminine community that takes
the suffrage seriously or as a step to better things.
“ Tenor Kirby has not sung in vain at the feet
of Society for so long. The soulful minstrel goes
’Ome shortly, and his charmed circle of admirers
are well forward to help him off. At a prelimi-
nary meeting of friends and sympathisers t’other
day, the cream of Society rallied and settled many
benefit matters for Walter, the sugary serenader.
“A N.S.W. squatter, whose name has more
than onco been introduced into legal court circles,
is the conspicuous admirer of a petite society
chick, who is as light on her dancing toes as the
springy Maud Ohetwynd.
“The recently-returned boys in kharki have
been doing Collins street, and imagining their
mustard puttees were ‘ killing ’ all the syrens of
The Block. Wrong—quite wrong. The girls
giggle at the strutful warriors these days, and
nestle the closer to their high-collared public-
service and ba,nk-clerk swains. The glory of the
returned contingenter has long since passed away.
The * son of the Empire ’ is now regarded as some-
what of a silly. There was a conspicuous instance
of it on the Block t’other day, when a big-
shouldered soldier and a rather narrow-chested
dandy walked bn either side of a sprightly ‘ bit-
of-muslim’ This consequential Miss had all eyes
for the narrow youth, and left the * hero ’ unre-
garded by her side.
“Lieut. A. Christie, one of those recommended
by Lord Kitchener for war honors, was a G.P.O.
clerk with a genius for engineering picnics. He
had sociable ideas, and was for ever fruitlessly
endeavouring to amalgamate the he-clerks and
she-elerks in a common camaraderie. When he
shouldered his musket for the war the fair postal
girls gave him a^cheery send-off.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.
A graceful form and well moulded bust
are essential to perfect beauty. LacU, the
wonderful “Skin Food” is nature’s remedy for
giving back those essentials when lost through
sickness or action of time, and for supplying them
when constitutionally deficient. It fills all hollows,
develops and gives a charming roundness to neck
and arms.' Price 7s. 6d. per jar, post Bs. 3d.
Westall Guest, Toilet Specialist to the Gov.*
General, 229 Bourke-street, Melbourne.


T
y
p
E
* PRINTERS *
Should Exchange their Old Type for New JZ
modern American Point type
To Assist Progressive Printers in Making the
Change, SPECIAL INDUCEMENTS will be
offered for a limited time by the
American £ype founders Company
Liberal Price will be allowed for Old Type in Exchange
for New Job Faces. Stocks Held in Melbourne and Sydney.
POINT SYSTEM SAVES TIME, MONiFandLABCR!
SPECIMEN BOOK will be furnished Prospective Purchasers.
Address Applications immediately to Printers’ Furnishers who sell our Type.
T. Q. NICKLIN, Travelling Agent, American Type Founders Compy.,
c/o ALEX. COWAN & SONS, Ltd., Melbourne or Sydney.
m
WEAK-SI6NTCP REAPERS^-
Who are unable to read small printed matter, or to see fine
stitching or writing with comfort, whose distant vision is dull
and who suffer from persistent headaches or pains after close
application—you may rest assured that you are suffering from
Ageing or Impaired Vision, and Need Glasses. You
should visit us, and have your sight scientifically tested, and
be supplied with Glasses adapted to your individual case.
1 u COUNTRY READERS who cannot visit us personally, we send, Post Free to any address, with full instruc-
tions and Price List, our marvellously-acpurate and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURING PATENT. By its use
you can Test your own sight and determine for yourself the style and quality of the glasses you may need.
Write for it to —
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Consulting Optician,
371 George St., Sydney,
next door to the A.J.S. Bank.
King and George Streets.
And at 232 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, opposite Age Office.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Only one N.S.W. Governor (Sir Robert
Duff) has died in office.
Anglican Archdeacon Bushtrotter is organ-
ising a missionary visit to the Q. far-western
districts. What’s in a name ?
In a legal confab at Sydney, last week,
Josiah Symon was mooted as the alternative to
Barton as Chief Justice of the Commonwealth.
T. B. Davison, who died lately at Maldon
(Vic.), claimed to have brought out and erected
the first mining plant used on Bendigo goldfield.
“ Sydney,” says an American who is dis-
gusted at the want of public spirit amongst its
rich people, “contains the most impecunious lot
of millionaires I ever struck.”
Rev. Matthew Walker, gaoled for perjury,
may be the starter of a new industry for women
in the baekblocks. His wife has been appointed
to do his clerical duties during his enforced
absence.
Vic. Leg. Assembly now contains three
Williams, three Camerons, two Billsons, two
Harris, and two Masons, but no Jones, and only
one Smith. Formerly, there were four Smiths—
viz. “Majah,” R. M., L. L., and Tom.
Mr. H. Noyes is the name of the Vic.
electrical engineer who is advising Minister Bent
re the conversion of Vic. suburban railways
traotion power. After all, G. H. Reid was not
absolutely original even as the great “ No-Yes.”
The hospitable squatter Frank Jenkins,
known well to most Murrumbidgee whalers, died
at 83. Sixty-seven years ago his father and him-
self, then 16, built the station home of Buckin-
bong, near Narrandera, and Frank lived there till
his death.
Morehead, the one-time brilliant “ 8.D.”
and general devil-raiser of Q. Leg. Assembly, later
Premier, later unlucky banker, later still dodder-
ing political canvasser, was the other day unsuc-
cessfully nominated for Chairman of Committees
m Leg. Council.
The “fighting man ” of Queensland Assem-
bly is beyond doubt Minister for Railways Leahy.
“ Janny ” carries a fair-sized political stone in the
heel of his Parliamentary stocking, and the trail
of his coat is all over the floor. What a time he
would have at a Donnybrook !
The lie heroic to the last. On Sunday,
June 22, the very day before the King’s collapse,
the Press Association wired to Windsor as to the
persistent rumors about his ill-health. And the
official reply from the private secretary was
“ Not a word of truth in reports.”
Mrs. Henry Lawson is the latest to bear
testimony to the good heart of Earl Beauchamp,
who has constituted himself protector-in-general
of Australians in England. During a spell of
trouble, the N.S.W. ex-Governor’s sympathy
with the Lawsons was practical and generous.
OVERHEARD ON THE GIPPSLAND
LINE (VIC.).
VISTOR: “Well, I heard that this country
was in a demned bad way, but I had no idea
it was quite so bad as that .”
The voluntary surrender of portions of
their salaries by certain Queensland officials must
make other officials seek a cool place for thought.
How does “Sam” Griffith feel? Sam’s Govern-
ment helped Lilley out of the Chief Justice’s
boots and put Sam’s feet into them at a huge
increase on Lilley’s salary. What says Sam to
the Ghermsides and others ?
As to the par. last week re John O’Brien,
A. W.U. organiser, Mr. R. Scobie, M.L. A., writes :
I was the Labor man you mention, and paid Mr.
O’Brien’s expenses for travelling the Wentworth elec-
torate on my account; I trust you will publish my denial
of the statement that I allowed him “ to go on his own ”
whilst I had funds at my disposal.
Passed out lately, via Capetown, another
Australian goldfields prospector, not much richer,
save in reputation, than when he came in—G. D.
Gorrie, contemporary of Bayley and Ford at Cool-
gardie, and himself pegger of the Lady Forrest,
Bayley’s South Extended, Royal Sovereign, and
others.
Premier John See, who denies the report
of his going to England, is the same politician
who denied N.S.W.’s intention to raise a fresh
loan, and one was raised almost next day. Does he
also deny that he is being put forward, with his
tacit consent, for that much-canvassed billet, the
High Commissionership ?
Obit. : Michael Victor Cunningham, land-
owner, of Tyaak, near Bradford (Vic.), aged 89.
Deceased fought as a lieut. in the war between
U.S.A. and. Mexico in the early 40.’s, reached
Port Philip in ’5l, and was pioneer on the Ovens,
Reedy Creek and Bowman’s Forest diggings,
being the finder of the last-named.
Pastor Bevan, of the Independent Church,
Collins-st., Melb. has a collection of Australian
books—works written in or on Australia —which
is much envied by bibliophiles. Gone are the
days when anything like a complete collection of
Australian books could be acquired short of the
expenditure of thousands of pounds.
Mr. George, the new Westralian Minister
of Railways, opened well at a recent meeting of
railway-hands, by addressing the audience as
“ I ellow-employees.” He had got half through
his first sentence when a voice from the back of
the hall remarked: “ Feller-employees ! Yes, an’
’e makes 30 quid a-week, an’ we get 30 blanky
bob! ”
The Bulletin regrets to hear that Trea-
surer Bird, of Tasmania, is in very poor health.
Heart trouble is said to be the chief cause, vari-
cose veins and general weakness some of the
effects. During his two hours’ financial statement
in las. Assembly the other night Mr. Bird stood
on one leg, resting the other on a knee-high
padded chair.
At the State Governor’s inspection of Vic.
Artists’ Exhibition, all the local Michelangelos
were togged-up, except two, Walter Withers and
John I ord Paterson, the latter of whom sported
hw usual “crimean” shirt. Withers rushed up
to him in great excitement, “ We are the only two
not dressed!” “Ah! but ye ken,” said John
F., “ we are the twa greatest airtists o’ the lot.”
Mary Clancy, a native of Ireland, who had
resided 60 years in Victoria, died in Ballarat
Benevolent Asylum, t’other day. The supt. of
the institution says he possesses documentary
evidence that she was over 107 years old. The
trouble in such cases is to make sure that the de-
ceased is the person mentioned in the document.
Present writer. feels at his prime at the age of 82—-
at least the birth-certificate with his name on it
says he is 82. The fact that it is his father’s cer-
tificate is a detail.
On a small selection, in Mt.
Morgan (Q.) district, a battler of
95 years ekes out a living with
spade and hoe, assisted by his
young son, aged 70. Also, near
Brisbane Cemetery, the other
day, _ a toiler of 91, whilst
' reaping, stumbled over a peg
and broke his thigh.
George Cossins, author
of “A Boer of To-day,”
“Isban Israel,” &c., was
lately retrenched, with
many others, from S.A.
Lands Dept. He had
been to S’Africa as lieu-
tenant with a S.A. con-
tingent, and, having
accidentally shot himself
through the foot, was so
long in hospital that he;
exceeded his Govt, leave.
Hence retrenchment with-
out solatium. But Cos-
sins was always fighting
his superior officers, so,
when he threatened
once again to make
things hum, the Govt,
climbed down, and was
glad to be rid of su,ch a
snag by granting him
several months leave on
full pay. Cossins fought
with the Boers against the
Swazis over 20 years ago;
was made almost totally deaf
through the report of a brother Boer’s rifle, and
got badly belted on the head with a knobkerry.
“Melb.”: Died recently, Mat Mitchell, one
of the best known commercial men here for over 40
years. He was almost the last of a body of
masterful men who lived for business and enjoy-
ment, and got all that life has to give out of both.
Such were our mercantiles of the old era,
and you need only conjure up names like Dalgety,
Degraves, Goldsbrough, Grice, Moore, Nankivell,
Service, Sumner. To be sure, “they cut out the
blubber” under a system which they devised
themselves for their own advantage. Their suc-
cessors of to-day are nervous men, fearful even to
touch a glass of wine.
THE REAL GOVERNOR-GENERAL.
LordKetchener, of Mahdi’s-head notoriety,
seems to be an incurable vandal. Cabled that he
has presented to the Royal Engineers’ Museum statues
of Kruger, Botha, and Cronje, from Pretoria, and a
statue of Steyn from Bloemfontein.
This robbery of the Boers’ statuary can’t be
excused on the ground of any military necessity,
and is, whatever light it is looked at in, sheer
barbarism.
The veteran N.S.W. Auditor-General Ren-
nie, whom the Cabinet is so anxious to muzzle, is a
Presbyterian of the old dour type. He was one
of the founders of St. Stephen’s Church, in
Phillip-st., Sydney, but seceded from its congre-
gation when the unholy “ Kust of Whustles ” was
installed, and went over to St. George’s, where
the solemn gloom of undiluted Calvinism is not
disturbed by music.
Said that Mr. F. B. Freehill, who com-
bines the roles of solicitor, Consul for Spain,
military officer, and high-priest of the Irish party in
N.S.W'., has been asked by the military authori-
ties to give an “explanation ” of his presence at the
recent Sydney Irish Homeßulemeeting. If this be
correct, Major-General Hutton is evidently very
anxious indeed for trouble. Volunteer and par-
tially-paid officers have hitherto not been debarred
from politics in Australia.
The late Detective Keatinge had good and
bad luck pretty evenly distributed in his time.
For years hp was the big gun of the Service, and
was despatched near and far through N.S.W. In
his best days he was speculative and imaginative.
He attended spiritualistic seances, and on serious
cases regularly employed mediums of that cult.
In hunts after murderers he was a terror a quarter
of a century ago. Towards the end of his career
he devoted himself chiefly to the Chinese.
By the death of C. L. Dobbin, aged 67,
Victoria loses a painstaking P.M. He once re-
marked to present writer that the accused who
stood in the worst position in a British court was
the man charged with exposure ; and that, for his
own part, he would rather be tried for murder,
the former allegation being most difficult of dis-
proof, though the circumstances were often quite
innocent. This was before charges of assault
against men by flighty females had become so rife.
The Speaker to Seddon :
Speed swiftly o’er the subject main,
Set England - on her legs again,
Hark to the voice of Chamberlain,
In piteous accents calling !
Come and avert impending doom,
Great Spirit, snatch us from the tomb ;
New Zealand mutton needs a boom,
And Zollvereins are falling.
The “frozen-meat-patriot” jibe sticks to Bun
Tuck.
The man of Geil, now nasal-snuffling in the
Good Cause in Sydney, doesn’t even take the
trouble to make his scriptural allusions fitting.
T’other day he wanted to urge men to “ enthrone
purity and cast out impurity,” and told the
scriptural story of how Adonijah (representing
impurity) was enthroned at Serpent Stone in
Israel by the rebel party and then cast out and
Solomon (representing purity) put in his stead.
Fancy Solomon with his hundreds of wives and
concubines as the symbol of Purity !
“ F.” : Henry Lawson discovers after all
these years that Lord Beauchamp didn’t send that
“birthstains message” to N.S.W. What non-
sense ! Beauchamp wasn’t at all disinclined to
discuss the matter here and he never denied
authorship. View that he took was that what was
written by Kipling as a compliment to Sydney,
accepted at the time without protest as a compli-
ment, couldn’t very well be turned into an insult
by his quoting it. Undoubtedly Beauchamp
meant well and for the .life of me I could never see
any reason for all the fuss about the “ birthstains.”
Will someone take Charles Hardie Buzacott
by the ear and lead him back to the old dart?
When he left the composing-room of S.M. Herald
and started his little Peak Downs paper nearly 40
years ago, he was a democrat to his soleless boots.
He got to Rockhampton, into Parliament, into
the Ministry, into Brisbane Courier, every step
an intellectual descent, until he landed M.L.C.
He is back again in Rockhampton now with
another little sheet, but he edits it from the poli-
tical M.L.C. abyss. “God did not make men
equal,” he chatters in a late issue, and by that
sorry phrase thinks he wipes out trades-unionism
and democracy in all its forms. It seems too late
in the day to reason with Charles Hardie Buza-
cott.
* The lately-lamented Governor-General was
always a tired man, and whenever he tried to
shine as an energetic official he became knocked
out, and had to “bunk” for recuperation. One
Australian artist who had to deal with Hopetoun
found him a shocking sitter—so languid that he
couldn’t hold up his head long enough to give the
man behind the brush half a chance. Indigestion
was then the dominant weakness, and at length,
after the third attempt, when the vice-regal sitter
broke away, and said he would really have to be
excused, but he positively couldn’t sit any longer
that day, the artist got mad, and U3ed most un-
diplomatic expressions, including a remark to the
effect that his Who’s-this needn’t bother to come
there again. That shock put his lordship to bed for
a week. “As a sitter,” says the artist, “His Ex.
hadn’t the natural ability of an old hen.”
Melba’s relatives write anxiously to Mel-
bourne papers explaining that London paragraphs
about the proposed ostentatiousness and magnifi-
cence of the return of the famous Australienne are
not at all near the mark. Melba has no intention
of trying to eclipse the royal visitation of the
Yorks, and is coming in modest array, with but
two attendants. The denial of the assertion that
Madame was bringing a shipment of wine to
entertain with is particularly warm. These
explanations look as if devised to modify great
expectations. In short, it is to be understood
that Nellie is coming to sing, not to shout !
Melb. demise: Albert Read, aged 90 years.
Deceased was the living embodiment of the melo-
dramatic stage-lawyer—white hair, chubby red
cheeks, clean-shaven, exquisitely charming man-
ners, dressed immaculately in traditional black
broad-cloth; had a stoop —(half obeisance and half
familiarity). He was a great and successful crimi-
nal advocate, and a fitting complement as attor-
ney to such counsel as Aspinall and Ireland, and
he was associated with most of the celebrated
old-time Vic. cases, including the principal
gold robberies ; and “ many a burglar ” Mr. Read
“ restored to his friends and his relations.” The
deceased was the defending attorney in the Haw-
thorn murder case, which created a stir some years
ago. The murderer shot his brother at Brighton,
and was brought to justice by some extraordinarily
clever black-tracking. At the first trial the pre-
siding Judge occupied three hours in his charge to
the jury, which disagreed. At the second a
merciless summing-up of 20 minutes by the then
Chief-Justice Stawell resulted in a verdict of
guilty after an hour’s deliberation.
Concerning our coming visitor, Mme.
Melba
For the next three or four months Australia will have
to endure newspaper statements of all the silly things
that silly people have said about Melba, likewise a num-
ber of things they didn’t say. For instance, the remark
made by an American musical critic when somebody im-
plored the prima-donna to seek shelter from the falling
snow what time she was waiting outside the theatre for
her carriage after a concert. Said the weak-minded
journalist in question, “ Ah, you see, Melba’s is a God-
given voice, and God will not let a little cold spoil it.”
What nauseating stuff ! Fact is that the development
of Melba’s naturally excellent physique was the result of
her healthy tom-boy girlhood. At Lilydale (Vic.), where
her father long ago built a country home for the town-
bred family, Melba is remembered as a girl who got
about in all weathers, hatless sometimes, and never
“ wrapped up.” In hardening her chest and throat the
lively Nellie unconsciously fitted herself for a brilliant
musical career. For the rest she was a great worker as
soon as she had made tip her mind to become what she
now is. When she was in Paris studying under Mar-
chesi, the robust young woman from Australia would
devour musical education from a book whilst she swal-
lowed her breakfast.
“ H.P.” sends a Victorian news-clipping
with an addendum :
PATHETIC SUICIDE.
Unable to Pay His Debt.
Harrow, Saturday.
A respected resident named William Burrill com-
mitted suicide on the 24th inst., by shooting himself
with an old muzzle-loading gun, the charge lodging in the
brain and causing instant death.
At the magisterial inqui'-y held by Mr. W. B. Edgar, it
was elicited that financial troubles were evidently the
cause of the rash act, and a very sad aspect of the tragedy
was presented by the production of a letter written the
night before, which after setting out fully particulars of
his debts, with, a list of creditors, went on to say that he
was ashamed of meeting, day after day, people among
whom he had spent half his life, and recognised that the
only way of being able to pay them was by taking his
life, as the sale of his property and effects, at present,
would more than discharge his liabilities, and time might
render this impossible. The deceased was a widower, 73
years of age, 35 years of which he had spent in Harrow.
A verdict of death from a gun-shot wound inflicted by
himself was returned.
“Poor old Billy Burrill!” remarks our cor-
respondent ; “ writer happened to know him.”
For years, he yvas almost blind, yet he refused charity,
but worked at his trade (carpenter and odd-job man) even
when he had to feel for his tools, and must needs have
fixed spots for each, that he might know where to put his
hands on them. Increasing years added to his difficul-
ties in the way of making enough to pay his way. He
then got behind, and saw but one way of paying his
debts—and took it. It is fashionable to erect memorials
to celebrate worthy men and deeds. Here is a fit subject,
surely. What a lesson for young Australia. “He died
to pay his debts ! ”


QUALITY AND FLAVOUR UNSURPASSED.
MACON OCHIE’S
DELICIOUS TINNED FISH.
Swift & Company, 7 Spring- Street, Sydney, Australian Agents.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
IdAVID STORER & SONS’ ,n Three Colors ~ BLACK< RED and BLUE
Registered
Trade
Mark.
sdfsfsdf
Is the Only Absolutely
SAFE
Wool-
Marking or
The Perfect SHEEP BRANDING OIL
Kept by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors.— 7n the ease of ethnological and
natural-history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific value.
“ Werrimee ” : Some hard things are being
said over the decision of the A.W.U. to increase
the shearing rates to 255. per 100. The squatters
argue that, as the men have hitherto be ensatisfied
with2os., thedemand for a2sper cent, rise just now,
during the worst time ever experienced, and on
top of heavy sheep losses, is simply monstrous, and
looks like an attempt to jump on the squatter when
he’s down. The real reason of the demand is this:
(1), the number of sheep being greatly reduced,
there is less inducement for shearers to go out
back than formerly ; (2), feed being nil, and water
almost so, travelling per horse is impossible, and
per foot difficult and dangerous ; (3), a serviceable
bike that will carry a heavy man and swag over
long rough roads, means a big cheque to a shearer
just now, and the chance then of a breakdown 30
miles from water ; (4), the co3t of living, even
along the lines, has increased enormously
since last ' year, and in places that depend
for supplies _on teams and camels, the
price of stores.is almost prohibitive. Under such
conditions, with small sheds and bad shearing,
the men will have little enough to show at the
end of the season even at the higher rates. Out
Winton way 30s. has been paid for years, good
seasons and bad ; and 30s. all over N.S.W. at the
present time would be more in accordance with a
proper adjustment of things than a continuance of
the usual rate's.
SOMETHING ABORIGINAL.
THE BARMAID (to the station-hand): “And what's yours?"
THE DOG-S TIFFENER: “ Oh, something aboriginal. Gin or Boomerang.”
“ D.H.R.” : A novel experiment in sheep-
feeding. Mr. J. P. J. Bell of Flemington, near
Walgett, N.S.W., last year cultivated some 50
acres of sorghum, on which he has been feeding
5000 ewes and lambs since last December, and it is
likely to last for some time yet. The success of
Mr. Bell clearly proves the value of bores to the
way-back settler.
• * * •
The few squatters who have fat stock for
sale just now are reaping a rich harvest. A mob
of bullocks from Barnes’ Tabulam (N.S.W.)
estate realised up to £2O per head at Homebush
recently ; and a mob of cows from same place
brought £l2 per head. The station-price of latter
in fair seasons ranges from two to four pounds.
* * * *
Hand-feeding on the majority of inland
stations has already cost some shillings per sheep;
for example, one place has spent £50,000 in pre-
serving 180,000 sheep. If the drought continues
the tucker-bill will exceed the value, and what
then ? It is a fallacy that store ewes will become
worth over £1 per head, because they can be im-
ported at that price.
• * * *
A little bush picture :
Travelling, last week, from Condobolin to Landsdale, I
struck Jim Merriel’s camp at Minalong Tank, Melrose.
There was the customary fenced-in tank and tent. The
fence was decorated with innumerable sheepskins, in all
stages of decomposition, and there were also two piles of
dead wool. Half-a-dozen sheep, rescued from the tank,
had been fed for a week, and were making feeble attempts
to profess to be alive. Jim himself was hanging round,
with his hands covered in blood from recent skinning
operations. The only things about with much life were
thousands of crows in the trees, eyeing the feast below.
Told by a traveller for station-supplies,
writing from Farina (S.A.), that, on a single
waterhole on Cooper’s Creek, there are the bones
of no less than 30,000 cattle and horses, the bleach-
ing records of a dozen droughts.
* * • •
While cutting a 40-acre crop near Coon-
amble (N.S.W.) lately, a reaper-and-binder
chopped up between 400 and 500 rabbits.
• • • *
Carriers in Queensland are a luckless race
just now. It costs 255. a week to feed a horse in
Ilughenden—as the Hughenden-Riehmond line
extension engineers recently ascertained. To go
from Warwick to Goondiwindi costs a carrier £2l
in fodder alone while the carriage of an average
load runs about £24 ... £3 left for the unfortunate
driver. Many a carrier winds up his trip on a
deficit and has then to solve the problem of how
to live on a minus quantity.
• i • •
The latest dog lie—in Richmond River
Express :
A farmer who had sold a flock of sheep to a dealer lent
him a dog to drive them a distance of 30 miles, desiring
him to give the dog a meal at the journey’s end, and tell
it to go home. The drover found the dog so useful that
he resolved to steal it, and, instead of sending it back,
locked it up. The animal grew sulky, and at last effected
its escape. Evidently deeming the drover had no more
right to detain the sheep than he had to detain itself, the
dog went into the field, collected all the sheep that had
belonged to his master, and drove the whole flock home
again.
* • •
“ J. H. Mac.” : He clever sheep-dogs (B.
28/6/’O2). I have a dog that, having yarded a mob
of sheep, shut the gate, inserted the peg that pre-
vents the gate from opening, and bumped it in
with his head.
An abori-
ginal idyl:
The sky had
clouded over,
black. Glim-
mers of livid
lightning came
and went upon
the gloom, and
thunder
growled omin-
ously in the
distance. Some-
thing was com-
ing.
Mother said it
was going to be
the rain of her
life. We hoys
were laughing
and runn i n g
round her, as if
she were a hay-
stack. She was
looking by
turns at the
miserable
“ crop ” and at
the heavens,
when Dad came
along.
“ Why don’t
yer stand on the
fence?” said
he, sarcasti-
cally.
“ Because you
ain’t the stuff to
make a fence
that ’ud carry
me ! ” retorted
mother.
Dad snorted,
walked over to
the line of tubs
and buckets
ranged care-
fully under the
spouting, and
snatched up a
shabby bell-
topper.
“ What’s this?"
he asked, grim-
ly-
“ Your ’at,”
faltered Tim,
guiltily.
“So I believe,”
returned Dad,
edging closer.
“ But what did
you put it there
for ? Quick 1"
Dad snapped Jimmy by the neck, but mother chipped
in. “ ’Ere, y’ old pig ! let go o’ that boy, or I’ll drive this
into yer face ” —holding her clenched fist under Dad’s
nose. Dad pushed it away, and mother hugged him,
tripped him up, and down they went together, mother
on top. Mather can wrestle like a man—a big one.
When she had Dad safely pinned under her, she dis-
coursed.
“You’ve been sneerin’and chuCkin’-off a lot, haven’t
you ? ” she said. “ Well, now, if you think you can get
up, chuck-off some more ! ” —and mother grinned.
“Let’s up 1 ” growled Dad.
“ When you admit that it’s goin’ to rain, as I said.”
“ I won’t! ”
“ You won’t ? ” Mother lifted his head by one whisker,
and bumped the ground hard with his skull. “ Now
will yer ? ”
“ Orright! I will—an’ I 'ope yer gets washed horff the
blanky selection ! ” hissed Dad.
Mother gave him a final jab on the nose, and then let
him up.
And presently the rain did come down, like rivers—the
first rain, to speak of, that we boys had ever seen.
So Mother was right. Even Dad had to acknowledge
that, when, in climbing the ladder to fix up the spouting,
his foot slipped off the wet rung, and he flopped into 50
gallons of water !
Mother laughed, and said it was Dad’s first bath since
they’d been married.
• * * *
“Hippo ” to “ Albo” :
If I found a sapling with a fork sft. up, and bored holes
in both limbs, as you suggest (B. 26/7’02), I should look
for the holes in after years at the same distance from the
ground, and also the fork, ’which would not be 10ft. up,
but sft. as before. If trees carried their limbs up as they
grew, what a lot of young spindle-shanked trees there
would be ! Heard a parson once relate a story (moral,
alas ! forgotten) of a boy who marked his height on a sap-
ling, and, a year after, was horrified to find the mark
above his head—concluding he had shrunk. Had I been
that boy, I’d have been horrified, too. I suppose “ Albo ”
would have merely concluded that the tree grew faster
than he did.
A HAVEN OF REFUGE.
THE SITTER : “ What ah awful thing it would be, Mr. Madder,
were you to become blind!"
MR. MADDER : “ Not so bad as you think —critics are well paid.”
“Trotter” : The once-prosperous town of
Goondiwindi (Q.) is fast assuming a “deserted
village ” aspect. The stations around will soon be
completely depleted of stock ; and the poor selec-
tor on his 100-acre patch is a woeful spectacle,
struggling to keep starving beasts alive on boiled
prickly-pear. Drastic tick-regulations prevent
the carrier from crossing the border ; and he also
is in a sad way with his starving horses, many
having died from eating the “pear,” the fibre of
which forms a hard ball in the stomach. Cattlo
thrive for a time on pear, but very soon go off.
The storekeepers keep the few cookies going with
a Micawber-1 ike trust.
* * » *
“Bush-Boy”: To“Ohasselas” (B. 19/7/'O2).
I have poisoned crows with sheep’s liver and
phosphorus. Have seldom managed to kill them
with strychnine, and have often seen them
vomiting after eating strychnine-treated baits.
¥ * " * *
They have just buried, up Nagambie way,
one Rogan, said to have been the tallest man in
Australia. Averred that it was necessary to bin y
him in an upright position to save the cost of two
cemetery-blocks.
* * * ¥
“Ashton”: To “Hypo” (8., 9/17/’O2).
At Winks selection, Surat Road (Q.), a hole was,
some years ago, bored in a pine tree and a peg
inserted to fasten horses to. The peg is now
almost out of reach. Again: On a selection
near here an ironbark tree serves as a post in a line
of fence, erected some 10 years back. The tree
has grown, hut has not carried the rails up with
it. Also, I have seen a wire-fence all askew
through trees carrying the wire up with their
growth. Many station-managers specify about
fencing that, where wires run through trees, the
tops must be cut off—balah excepted, which, if
cut, rots and falls out. There 1
* * * 9
This, from the report of Dr. Trenow,
Health Officer at Croydon (Q.), applies to pretty
well every out-back town in Australia :
Germ-laden dirt ot every description is deposited on
our roofs by wind-storms, and hawks also drop bones and
garbage. Householders should therefore arrange that no
rain-water be allowed to enter the tanks until the roofs
be washed clean. All drinking water also should be
boiled before using. Many of the domestic water-tanks
have not been cleaned out for years, and contain dead
frogs and a thick, offensive slime of decomposing, organic
matter.
Yet if you suggest boiled drinking-water, the
residents will say, “Oh, we are all right: we
drink nothing but rain-water .” Most people
seem to think that if water is clear and tasteless
it must be wholesome.
• * •
“C.C.” : “ F.M.” (B. 28/6/’O2)
states that tutu-poisoned cattle may be
saved by a fast run up or down hill.
Well, when on a station in Canterbury
(M.L.) some years ago, a mob of 15
milch cows had been eating tutu (pro-
nounced “ toot ”), and, although they
galloped a considerable distance down-
hill to the homestead, careered madly
round for a time, and then rushed off
in different directions, clearing all
fences as they went, 14 of them were
afterwards found dead, some several
miles away. The only one saved was
an old cow which was caught, freely
bled, and suspended for some hours.
Tutu-eating doesn’t hurt horses.
* * *
“ F.M.” : The N.S.W. stock-
route question is cropping up again ;
hut it is not at all sure that Ministry or
Parliament will find brains and courage
enough to tackle it. The reservation
of these stock-routes was one of the big
and creditable things of the men who
are gone. A mile wide, they run from
the Murray to the Queensland boun-
dary, and a lot of money has been spent
on them in tanks and wells. But to
what purpose, when they are leased to
the squatter through whose holdings
they pass, and fed down first when-
ever drought threatens ? Fence them
off, charge a reasonable price for their use, and
much might be saved and gained in various
ways. As things are now, the big idea is robbed
of all use.
* * * *
“Silly Billy” : ’Possum-catching method
described by “Werrimee” (B. 19/10/’01) is common
throughout N.S.W. I recently saw a ’possum-
snarer with 200 dozen skins, worth about £7O, and
all obtained in this way at Callaghan Swamps,
New England, in eight months. But the black
’possum, which furnishes the best skins, cannot be
1 ~ •’ , „ • ,l •
caught m any numbers in this way. Know only
one man who seems to have the secret of catching
the black ’possum and he keeps his own counsel, a
“Artemis" : He holes
supposed by “ Prospector ” (B.
19/7/’O2) to have been sunk by
blacks in search of wombat.
Any such holes I have seen
were too narrow to have been
sunk by men. They lead into
large wombat-burrows and are
generally found in stony hill
country. In this district (Up-
per Murray) there have been
no blacks for about 30 years,
yet I recently saw a freshly-
sunk hole. In my opinion
the wombats make them for
air-shafts. As no loose dirt
is ever seen on top it would
seem that the animal works
upwards from the burrow, the
mouth of which is often mucli
below the shaft-opening. And,
anyhow, no blackfellow would
sink holes 23ft. deep after
wombats when he could catch
them just as well by waiting
at the mouth of the burrow.
“Lyn” : Honey-hunting
in the bush once, we came
across an immense bees’-nest
on the outside of a stump.
Large white flakes of comb,
loaded with honey, covered
the whole of one side of the
stump, and were unprotected from the weather
except by trees growing near about. We covered
the nest with a net, sawed the stump off, and
carried the whole away bodily.
* • • *
Editor Bulletin, — Apropos late par re
Paspalum Dilitatum —Golden Crown grass—re-
commending the planting of this grass in the dry
western districts. We have had this grass planted
for two years, and find it will not thrive without
irrigation, but even with irrigation it is not to be
compared with lucerne or alfalfa in the dry dis-
tricts. In the moist districts the grass will
become a valuable grazing fodder. —H.F.L.
* * » •
Some 150 half-castes, descendants of the
last of the Tas. aborigines, are just now big with
grievance against local Lands Minister Mulcahy.
Alleged that the Minister has leased Chappie
Island, the chief breeding-place of the succulent
mutton-bird, to a Tas. squatter for grazing pur-
poses, and that the sheep and cattle will destroy
the “rookeries,” and scare the birding industry
away for ever.
“Benjamin Bridge” writes from Glen
Innes
I have noticed my name connected with “ The Ragged
Thirteen.” 1 wish to correct “6x8,” and to do justice
to myself and my fe low-men. In the first place, why
didn’t “6xB” sign his name ? As low as he would make
me out to be, lam not ashamed to sign mine. It is not
true that I was with “ The Ragged Thirteen.” You
Stated that I was supposed to have joined those men
going through the Northern Territory. I never did. And
they were supposed to be union shearers carrying on
cattle-duffing, horse-stealing, and kangaroo-shooting, who
would never dare to show their noses any further inland
than Win ton in Queensland. That also is false. Those
men were not union shearers, but mining prospectors
making their way to Kimberley (W.A.) long before my
time in that part. I wish to speak a word in favor of the
union shearers, who, like myself, have often had a lot
thrown on their shoulders which is not true. Referring
again to “The Ragged Thirteen,” who were making their
way to Kimberley diggings, they ran short of food, and,
some time before I saw those parts, arrived at a station in
the Northern Territory and inquired of the Chinese cook
whether there were provisions in the store or not. He
informed them that three waggon loads had just arrived.
When they asked the squatter for food he said that he
would neither sell nor give food. To which the men
replied, “We have been some time now without food,
and we cannot go any longer,” and they helped them-
selves to what they wanted. They got the name of
“ The Ragged Thirteen ”in this way: When the squatter
asked them their names they said, “ You can call us ‘ The
Ragged Thirteen ’ (they were 13 in number). The name
has stuck to them ever since. I never was with “ The
Ragged Thirteen ” at any time. The good testimonials
that I have to show (they secured my release, and satisfied
his Honor Judge Heydon) should'be enough to satisfy
“6xB” and the general public.
The Sandow craze is now on. First in the field
with a beauty-photo. of himself is the well-known
Queenslander depicted above. Physical culture is his
fad, and he utilises his muscle in protecting the
Northern aborigines.
Photo, by Bain Studios, Ltd., Brisbane.
“Canip,” to “F.L.G.” (B. 15/3/’O2) :
When dugong were plentiful in Moreton and
Wide Bays (Q.) a lucrative business used to be
done in dugong oil and flesli. The latter was
cured like bieon, and was much ahead of cheap
pig-bacon, though having aslightly fishy flavor.
» * * *
Letter received by a big N.Q. firm from
a Chinese firm of storekeepers
Dear Sir,
We beg to inform you that please put my credit of
maize send to your branch at - on my account lam
thanking kindly send me invoice of you goods so many
time goods from your I hope consentaneous I shall be
much obliged.


CLEARS
the BLOOD
through the
KIDNEYS
OLFES
SCHNAPPS.
BABY -
WANTS
We supply in Silver
and Gold.
“No time to supply
the others
Silver Spoons with Nursery Rhymes, 7s. each.
Silver Cans, with Old Rhymes in Raised Work, 17s. 6d.
Solid Silver Cans, 265. 6d. Electro-plated Mugs, 12s. 6d.
Knife, Fork and Spoon, in Case, 275. 6d.
Silver Dumb-bell Rattles, Baby Diamond Rings, and every line possible
for Presents to His Babyship.
All at LONDON PRICES.
Silver-Mounted Child’s Mu
to;-
LONDON PRICES
PLAIN FIGURES
STRICTLY CASH
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
Tha Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney, 23 HUM TER STREET.
“P.” : I never saw the mirage so st rongly
on theN.S.W. plains as during a recent tour in
the North-West. From Narrabri to Moree great
lagoons, glassy lakes, and gliding streams seem to
surround you. The apparently limitless parched
and fissured black-soil plains, as level as a billiard
table, spread out from the view-point bearing not
one single verdant blade, yet, towards the horizon,
you ever see the alluring water.
* * * *
“Rypot ” : Re mirages. As a locomotive
stoker, I often see a mirage—or something akin.
The sun, shining on the glistening steel ahead,
sometimes makes one big blurr of the two lines of
rails, and if a bird happens to be standing on the
line (magpies often are) it looks like an elephant.
Then as we approach the mirage slowly fades
away. The big blur gradually grows less until the
two rails are again seen, and the “elephant”
shrinks successively to a bullock, calf, dog, and
bird. We never run over a magpie, or a goat—
they are too cunning.
* * * *
“Di. W.” : lie bird - mimicry. On a
mountain-climbing excursion once we came across
three lyre birds —a young one and its parents.
The male bird at once took flight, and the young
one, not able to fly well, perched on a low limb
close to us. Then the mother bird, to divert our
attention, started running up and down in front
of us and mimicking the calls of eaglehawk,
plover, curlew, magpie, and parrot so faithfully
that anyone not seeing her would fancy the bush
alive with birds.
* • • •
“Mutton-Bird”: Once camped under a
solitary tree, occupied by a bell-bird. Presently
his clear note rang our, then came an apparently
distant echo. Couldn’t locate it for a time—not
even a blade of grass to shelter any other per-
former. Watched the bird closely, and found that
the “ echo ” came from him ielf. While echoing
lie kept his hill slightly open and used the throat
only.
* • * »
“ W.J.” : If “ L.M.” (B. 5/7/’O2) is a
woman, there’s no more to be said, because the
Australian female seems to take readily to the
artful Hindu (as she does to the Chinaman, who,
also, when it suits him, is all smiles and soft talk).
But no decent white man, who knows anything of
the matter, will fail to smile at “ L.M.’s ” asser-
tion that the black hawker is no filthier than the
white. Present writer, who has had long experi-
ence of the former, has only known him to wash
in a pannikin—-when ho washed at all.
*.* * •
“Prossy” : In the cedar-brush, Copeland
district, N.S.W., there is a dark-green colored
vine with a yam-like root which is very palatable
boiled or roasted. The blacks are fond of it, and
I have found hundreds of vines that had been
worked out by the blacks in past years.
• * * *
“Pyalla”: Near Warialda (N.S.W.) I
lately witnessed a parade of brolgns. For perfect
marching and drill evolutions no trained soldiery
could compare to it. Their marching in line was
superb, but most wonderful of all was the perfect
circles they described when in single file. No
wonder the blacks are proud of saying that the
brolgas learned it from their corroboree dance.
And what on earth will the brolga not eat ? I
have seen him on the stubble fields, catching,
plucking and _ eating birds; and recently, on
Tycannah Station, a flock of them were apparently
feasting on rotten sheep carcases.
* * * *
“J.A.”: Came, t’other day,'to a tank
with about 3ft. of water and found a dozen
emus in it bobbing heads and necks under water
as if bathing. Found, however, that they were
fishing for bony bream ; catching them fast, too,
and swallowing them whole, though I could not
get close enough to see which went down first,
head or tail. Never heard of the emu as a fisher-
fowl before.
* •’ » «
“Woomba”: Lately saw a new mode of
starting a bullock that had gone down crossing a
bridge and wouldn’t rise. “Bullocky” got two
sticks and got his offsider to pull the beast’s tail
out taut. He then placed one stick under the
tail and the other above, and rubbed them up and
down the tail smartly. The friction this produced
on a tender spot did the trick, and in less than
lOsecs. that bullock was on his feet, with a look of
surprise in his eyes.
• * * *
“ Nincompoop ” : Re large mouse-families
(B„ 21/6/’02): I once found 14 youngmice and an
iguana in the same log on Burdekin River. Why
the “go.” hadn’t scoffed the mice I can’t con-
ceive.
* » * *
“Lar”: When I was running a small
steamer between Brisbane and Cairns, about L 7 ,
years ago, sometimes, owing to delay of boats, the
township would be in a painfully grogless state.
On these occasions a long string of buggies would
be lined up, waiting, to meet the boat; and when
we fetched up at the wharf the people used to
rush the ship, dry up the bar as a preliminary
canter, then present their bills-of-Tading to the
skipper, get their receipts, and, instead of waiting
for the stuff to be discharged, collar the liquor
themselves, load up their buggies, open a case for
the road, and go home happy.
• * • *
“ Carraipa ” : Can any Bulletin reader
explain, for certain, the origin of the term
“•Timmy Woodser”? [One yarn is that some
Jimmy Woods used to always drink by himself;
•another, that a man wanting to drink by himself
asked an imaginary Jimmy Woods to come and
■drink with him.]
* * * *
/‘Casa B.” : To “ Credo ” (8., 17/7702).
That the crow (foes eat the milky grain any farmer
in Western Vic. can testify. Prior to the general
use of seed drills, it was common to tar seed-wheat
to save it from the crows—and even the drills do
not bury the seed deep enough to baffle them.
“Crede ” may be scientifically right about the
■exhaustion of the seed’s albumen, but the crow
regardeth not science. He gets to biz. as soon as
the wheat is sown. He will also pull up the young
wheat-shoots. I have often shot and inquested
the black marauders, finding the soft wheat in
their crops. Magpies and sparrows also offend in
this way.
ASHELLING PEAS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
a l the world is rjrecn and bright
Outride the latticed pane ;
The fields are decked with gold and white,
Ami Spring has come again.
But though the world be fair without.
With flow' rs and leaving trees,
’Tis pleasanter to be about
Where Nell's a-shelling peas.
Her eyes are blue as cloudless skies,
And dimples deck her cheeks ; -
Whilst soft lights loiter in her eyes
Whene’er she smiles or speaks.
So all the sunlit morning-tide
I dully at mine ease,
To loaf at slender Nelly’s side
When Nell’s a-shelling peas.
This bard , who sits a-watching Nell,
With fingers white and slim.
Owns up that, as she breaks each shell.
She also “breaks up” him ;
And could devoutly drop upon
Submissive, bended knees
To worship Nell with apron on —•
A saint a-shelling peas.
The tuckcd-up muslin sieves disclose
Her round arms white and bare—
’Tis only “shelling peas” that shows
Those dainty dimples there.
Old earth owns many sights to see
That captivate and please ;
The most bewitching sight for me
Is Nell a-shelling peas.
THE BREAKER.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
Una Voce : Two pale and colorless sketches
J.F. : Re “ Naval Subsidy Folly.” All you say about the
shocking state of the British navy is doubtless true.
But other navies are just as shockingly mismanaged, and
are also smaller ; when ten disorganised ships meet five
disorganised ships the disorganised battle that follows
generally goes in favor of the ten.... John W. (Maori-
jand) : Don’t know any book on the subject. A State
liquor monopoly is partially organised in Russia—that is
to say, it exists over part of the empire, and is being
extended as fast as the machinery can be got into vvorking
order.. ..Ruhtra : The “Yes-No” gag dates from the
time when Reid delivered his first speech on the original
Federal Constitution, and denounced the Bill as a gross
wrong to N.S.W.— and 1 then announced that he
was going to vote for . it, but that he wouldn b
advise any other person to do the same
A.S. (Q.) : It becomes necessary to state that neither in
Queensland nor elsewhere has The Bulletin any travelling
agents empowered to incur debts on its behalf. One sign
by which you may know the all-wool Bulletin man is
that he pays spot-cash G.T.: Your “ howl of despair ”
would look in print like a very small whine. Send us a
fine robust howl The Shadow: A cloud “fills with
morning wind ” and “ widens out to drape the sky with
petals.” Not in this paper !....Dick : “ Poor old Jim’s
last ride” again!.... E. G. 8.: Why use such a figure as
this— i
“ As one frees
His numbed body from a swooning trance,
Made deathly by the sharp unskilful lance ;
So in that sound i drank bliss to the lees.”
Honestly, isn’t that simply rubbish ? You have some
merit, but are spoilt by pretentiousness.. ..L.C.M.:
You’d better take your wares to London ; don’t know of
any publishing-house in Australia likely to purchase
Leges : There is a shadowy right to “ copyright in news,”
but, so far, no one has ever attempted to exercise it
in Australia Acolo’: And yet, judging from the style
<>f your letter, you wouldn’t let your son marry the best
domestic servant that ever lived, if you could help it—not
even after she had .been educated and smartened up.
“ Society ” often tolerates the woman who it .'.nows has
passed through the hands of dozens of men under the
most mercenary circumstances, but it will never
tolerate a woman, however good, whom it know 3
to have been a housemaid or a cook. . .Rex : Not a story,
merely a seduction... .Miss W. : “Betty” is a quaint
yarn with some very good points, but not up to inark-
Marjong : Not taking any Cornish ghost stories....
N. Tragim : Too long for idea D.R.W. : Treatment
unconvincing... .V.G.C. : Thanks, bub probably lots of
other papers went too ; and it was important to v them.
Let them have the advt.... Pegasus : Blackfellow copy
not of sufficient interest... Index: “Finis” shaky,in •
metre... .Stamper : (1) No. (2) We use Webster’s dic-
tionary L.W. : Too melodramatic. .... Lone Hand:
Don’t see the meaning... .E.M. : Not enough in it....
L.R. : Pay for anything accepted, hut “musical even-
ings ” has no interest... .L.B. : No, the lady is as yet an-
married... .J.E.F. : They’re intended to be crows—
allegorical crows which aren’t necessarily up to natural!
specifications. Will tell Norman Lindsay Waif:
Bright description of Jones loaded with too much moral ■
reflection about the drama... .O.P. : Yes, bub we fear the
gentleman’s virtue in London would only last until
he got a crowd of wasters around him there, t 00....
P. Nelson : The unemployed trouble arises because there
are not sufficient industries to employ the people—we
import things instead of making them. You don’t pro-
pose to create any new industries or new employment,
but simply to provide resting places along the roads for
the unemployed, with a little casual unproductive work,
at Govt, expense as they go along. In fact, you have gol>
the old, old relief-work idea in a new form... Admirer ::
In such a case you should appoint the person,
who is to inherit the estate to be executor
also Ted : Beer poem rather rocky True
Bill : Too many inverted commas, italics, and jokes
understandable only by the man on the spot
Dallington : Reads like Svengali with scent and oil poured
over him and butter brought to him on a lordly
dish. Heroine is too dazed to be allowed out alone.
Next thing you know the tram will run over her
A.P.O. : Some good points in “ Ugly Jane,” but the story
is too squalid ; and, besides, unnatural. Jane would only
have got 12 months for manslaughter Horace W.
(London): A point to you as an author : always find out
the character of a paper before wasting stamps on sending
copy to it. Then you won’t send to The Bulletin a “ syn-
dicate article ” on “Coronation Seats in London.” As well
send a eulogy of the Pope to the Protestant Watchman. ..
E.M.W. : The “meanest men on the whole earth” The
Bulletin takes to be the members of that Vic. Leg.
Assembly which provided a miserable pension for Graham
Berry without making any provision for his wife....
A. : Bulletin takes little stock in the manner of
kingly dynasties, but what it said is a fact; that a Prince
Consort doe 3 not occupy the position of an ordinary
husband. King Ned can be of Hanover or of Saxe-
Ooburg-Gotha, just as he pleases... .Clerk 49: “T. 0.”
is in print; we’re not going to encourage a yellow-
green controversy J. R. : Unsuitable Boy :
Sick and tired of Scriptural parody stuff
Sidney 0. : Mechanically well-written, but lacking in
force and vividness Wanderer : Some humor in both,
but not skill enough Fortuna : Slender interest and
lifeless style Radpus: You are modest, anyhow.
Sorry not up to mark Albo : Verse not quite quality
enough Boozer : Not tod bad for a first try. Has
promise of humor Tenterfield: Hardly enough in it.
....F.W.H. : Lacks point and vigor H.M. : Verse
tolerable, but subject unworthy Oktis : No literary
value Lerli: Too much spun-out for the interest
Hamer : The digestive processes of both dog and cat
have, through long association with mankind, become
modified so as to partly assimilate vegetable substances
which are of no nutritive value to carnivora in a state of
nature... .Ted: Angel-yarn good, but old; other gag
new, but feeble Exile : Couldn’t print that without
knowing precisely when and where such evidence was
given John P. : Thanks; but we couldn’t make any
use of it Madeline N. : Too unequal in quality
W.W.: No truth whatever in such statements. Bulletin
deals with all contributions strictly on their merits, and
has always welcome for good work from a fresh hand
B. Gentle: Too long, and stiff, and awkward J.G.D. :
One has fair ideas in poor verse ; the other poor ideas in
fair verse Netherby : Utterly uninteresting Wally :
Can’t undertake to read such faint scrawl.., .Cha3. P.S.
(Melb.): Will print “ Discord.”.. ..O.M.A. : We’ll believe
in the sea-serpent when we see a photo, thereof. Surely
snapshot-machines are cheap and widely - distributed
enough nowadays H. : To openly speculate as to
actors’salaries would breed serious trouble.. ..Camara-
derie : Your plea for militarism on the ground that “ the
niggers are to be kept in their places and the 400 million
Chinamen to be relegated to—well, to Hell preferably
and if needs must—anyhow, their carcases would be more
valuable as manure to the earth than their living habits
are to the world,” is truly a fine sample of Jingoism
Telsic : Too sugar-plummy—suitable for a children'3
magazine Moulamein : Verses not much below mark ;
they fail in thought rather than in form.., .Pei Panes :
Some grace, but too thin : “ Two-and-a-third ” is a fair
idea which would “go ” with stronger treatment. Stray :
Astray Courabyra : “ Old Cab-horse” can’t jog in this
paper Rob. Graham: Spoilt by weak last verse
Will C. : A poor paraphrase of Tennyson’s “ 8r00k.”....
Ponemah : We loathe parodies—especially silly ones ;
“ Full up ” better, but not good enough... .O.C. : Verses
not bad, but we don’t feel inclined to start a controversy
on the point... .Ajax: Your bold defiance of woman
regretfully declined.... Unsuitable : Alone, Kelpie, F. 8.,
Rita S., Nil, M.J.H., Quandary, Stanley P., W.H.R.,
Alec. Z„ M. 8., Geebung, G.B. (Vic.)!.. .A.M. : Not
by a long chalk. The Government has no right
to be a “dead-head” as regards municipal rates....
E.J.S. : Obscure jest... .Abbot Hofred ; The tale has
some good points, but the literary style leaves much to
be desired. Same story, if better told, would be all right.
....Pro Bono Publico: Matter good, but too heavy,
essayish, and long-drawn-out Marnoro : It’s nob so
certain that electric lighting holds any advantage over
gas in the respects alluded to. We know experts, not
necessarily prejudiced, who aver that gas in its most
modern forms of supply, is still the best, cheapest, and
handiest of thi3 world’s lights Spring: You are very
verbose. Try directness and condensation The Lis-
tener : Don’t remember it, but if such an answer was
given, no doubt it will yet appear A.R.N. : Memo.
posted. But that parson yarn is a venerable chestnut....
Old Top : That was a very lame collection of anecdotes..
A Tynne Tacke : Very tiresome.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
H.H.: Almost undecipherable, but two may do for
illustration. In ink next time, please E.P.J. : Draw
in the blackest of ink on the whitest of paper Walter
E.P. : Your “ bad mark ” legend was told, years ago, of
Holle, the Sydney tailor T.J.A. : Chow yarn dates
from Confucian era, and is sent to us 18 times a week
quite regularly J.A.P. : Neat drawing, ancient legend.
....C.R. : Legend in faint pencil-scrawl quite illegible.
laae : Ail utterly useless E. (or S.) T.D. (or some-
like that) : Stamp sent, but no name or address on two
drawings Unavailable: S.V., J.A.M., J.H.0., A.N.D.,
0.E.8., M.G.S., Geo. E. (B.), Horace A.B. (M.), 11.W.R.
Edison declares that he has solved the
automobile problem with a new storage battery,
which, even in its present imperfect state, makes
it possible to run 100 miles without re-charging.
The inventor declares that he can improve the
appliance till it will be possible to run at 100
miles an hour for a number of hours, according
to the size of the battery. At a trial the new
battery drove the car at 62 miles per hour, and,
on the return journey, the driver got enthusiastic
and “ let her go ” at the rate of 83 miles,
Here’s a chance for the Owe’Sullivan
Ministry to get the Mitchell Library properly
housed for nothing. Carnegie, the American
millionaire of the bloodstained Pittsburg works,
offered, in a recent after-dinner speech in London,
to pay for the erection of a public library in any
city in the English-speaking world that would
provide a site and guarantee the maintenance of
the institution. The Owe’Sullivan has no politi-
cal objection to,tainted money, or lie would not
have asked for Rhodes’ gold. Why not beg of
Carnegie ? His money doesn’t stink more than
Rhodes’.
An interesting Venetian scene, with the
Campanile of St. Mary’s in the background, was
slap-dashed on the wall (24ft. by 12ft.) over the
entrance-door at Hawthorn (Melb.) Town rial! a
few days before the cable, announced that the his-
toric bell-tower had collapsed. Peter Hansen
(who painted Waxelleucy Madden’s portrait,
a while ago) was responsible for this new depar-
ture ip town-hall decoration. The Hawthorn
aldermen decided to do up their hall, and called
tenders for the job. Peter Hansen, whose excel-
lent artistic 'credentials might not have carried
any weight but for his being a resident in the
suburb, managed to get the contract to do up the
civic barn in the Renaissance style, and the result
was some very effective work. The neighborhood
now feels proud of itself, and the local councillors
have started to grow their hair long and talk
about frescoes, friezes, and panels. Hansen is an
expert decorative artist. In Egypt, he did a lot
of fresco work for the Khedive and pashas, and
he was also commissioned, years ago, to design
the decorations of the Royal Opera House at
Buda-Pesth.


/ Cabled “ that some representative, Boera,
.accompanied by an expert, are to visit the
British 'colonies for agricultural informa-
tion. They will first „
visit Canada and then \ 'r/Prt
Australia.” l . /, mST'
// a\\ 1 n// Ln
A - LESSON FOR THE BENIGHTED.
Cookies’ Son : “The crop ain’t two inches high, an’ it’s all
out in ear ; ye’d better turn the blanky sheep into it.”
Cookie : “ Orlright, an’ slip over to Jinkins, an’ast-for the
loan of a plug of terbacca. Tell ’im I'm- turning Straw-
berry into the crop, an’ I’ll pay him when I sell her.”
Australia has held the cricket supremacy for so many
years now' that John Bull had better change hia
“ national game ” to ping-pong.
There are now fish enough at the National Park
to keep Jack W&pt away from Japan for some
time.
“ A shipment of fish, con-
sisting of 560 plaice, 23 sole,
and one lobster arrived from
England last Friday. Sub-
sequently the lighter to
which they were transferred
was towed to Port Hack-
ing, where the fish were
liberated.”
A LIVELY time for j)
Sebgeant : “ Well, bhoys, I think we’ll surround ’em an’ call on ’em to
surrinder! ”
Constable Dooley : “Shure, wouldn’t it be better to pump a couple of
shells into ’em first to prevint thim fr’m Surroundin’ ? ”
THE PREMIERS IN WONDERLAND.
With Hop.’a apologies to Lewis Carroll and Tenniel.
=- 'A
if\ Hk
“Indeed, the Empire is onlydjeginning to feel its feet.” '
—Ed. Baeton.
Mr. Chamberlain
« J an » awar§ that we cannot attain
our ideal forthwith, at a single step.
I am, indeed, personally inclined to
think that it would not be wise to
force the. pace and ask the colonies to
do more than their goodwill suggests.’’
“ No hurry ! ” said the carpenter:
They thanked him much for that.
u The Lord Mayor (Sir Joseph C.
Dimsdale) proposed * The Visitors,’
coupling the toast* with the name of
Mr- Edmund Barton, whom he described
as 1 an Empire-builder.’ ’’
The carpenter said nothing hut
»* The butter’s spread toO thick !
CARTOONLETS.


*' TH2T' FACTORIES act. ji _
Hi
DEPUTATION TO THE PREMIER-
The federation represented every class of <
-industry, and numbered 4200 members,',
showing that capital was at l>*t organ*'* l \
to make its voice heard against the Social. -
istic drift going on. (Hoar, Hoar.)
—Mr. DerhaM. >
Ir'S'mt-
f oU
> (V
ot]
li Y\y
bssj x V
f. p
tf >e . t0p0,,-
K/ ?*»•>£ ** h a<} _
/Sep,. ° lo^e r j H °orn n .
>»>!. °«e. X,
-V. v- -'«v»
4U. V X A. ,
J ]} o w S° rr 1 e '
*4* '&"&*■
"AS*7'ff °f J
r/ Vec-K •
/ Em
\ JV//J
Yuri i n
Mef>*7 o'.— y o u -fool'-'
l|- you a, few M - My coaUtif
raE PRICE OF MEAT TM*
A meeting of the Master Butchers’ Associ-
ation will be held next week to decide on
united action with regard to raising prices.-
Some of the butchers say they will have to
discontinue running order-carts in order to
curtail expenses as much as possible. •
!PThe Houses, indeed, have a landing ,
boast couched in P»rret-hke form that
is the essence of the Pnt.sh Const,-
.. and thev Show m » variety of
: “how partial they are to the perfumes
iof such concentrated essences. Indee «
| whole Parliamentary syste®
I it is designed cot to work, nu
work and to effect the minimum of work
| and maximum ... delay at the v.wy greatost
5 cost ,*o the country ' J
IjicS
5o OUK ao^y
. : v'ti 1 1 * v ; w f
JiuUd A ~*jew
Tijey \<Z*ee
Gvj one Ques-fton
ABoirmW
[uijcy
'ey*? difficulty !
, But '* ShouM i
thu
<La «<rhter, l*uJ, th »«» '■
£v/ ... ful ‘y Joa
■ . A»- \ //
vo /
f s **? tL-iT'»,i* f£f'*' 1
W">. ”y
Joj-j-ul
1)$~S Qaotitj?
/, '
B? yoa
(Jobl »«7
OK
'frati, mw
MOTOR-CAE SERVICES.
So rapidly has the question of supplying
lapid and regular communication between
the city and suburbs oome to the front that
the o&ble tramways and our disgracefully
alow railways are in imminent danger of
being left altogether behind by a proposed
new motor-oar service, whioh made a trial
trip yesterday, when a 12-horee-power
Coventry Daimler ran out from the Stock
Exchange to Essendon and Braybrook and
back.'
MELBOURNIANA.


A. SAUNDERS’
WATCHES, CLOCKS, JEWELLERY, & SILVERPLATE AT FREETRADE PRICES
_ SAVE 25 TO 50 PER CENT. SHOWROOMS: 815 GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
m
.A. SAUNDERS.
4 O CLOCK CAKE LURKS, Pure Silver-pin*
on Hard White Metal, in Silk-lined Case, 20s.
Similar style, 12s 6d.
These will last your lifetime.
A. SAUNDERS.
DINNER CRUET, 6 Bottles, with Shield, Bure
Silver-plate on White Hard Metal.
A Useful and Serviceable Article, £2 10s.
Other styles, £2, £3, £4.
A. SAUNDEBS’ LATEST STYLE
FBUIT or CAKE STAND,
Silver-plated Stand with Fancy Glass, 30s.
Similar Stand, 27s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
ELOWER STAND, Silver-
plated Base, 8s 6d per pair.
Larger styles, 12s 6d, 15s 6d, 21s.
Choice Table Appointments.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Swan PIN,
7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
QS.—CANDLESTICK, Pure
Silver-plated, 8s 6d each.
Similar Designs, 12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
SOAP BOX, Silver-plated, Nicely
Chased and Embossed. 12s (id.
EREE TRADE PRICES.
A. SAUNDERS.
ECxG CRUET, very neat, effective, 4 Cups
and Spoons, Pure Silver-plated on White
'.ickel Silver, 20s. Other styles and
patterns, 255, 30s, 355, £2, £2los.
V: :
HOT WATER KETTLE and STAND,
fan be used as a Teapot. Pure Silver-
plated on White Metal, Beautifully
Chased and Ornamented, £2.
Embossed and Extra Chased, £2 10s.
Other Styles, £3, £3 10s.
Handsome and Useful Article.
A. SAUNDERS.
LADIES’ FRIEND,” Pure Solid Silver-
mounted, 18s 6d ; Smaller, 15s 6d.
A Nice Present.
e
m
mm
S©
A.. SACJNDERS.
LUNCHING CRUET, 4 Bottles,
Silver-plated, 15s 6d. Very Pretty.
SPECTACLE
‘ CHATELAINE
CASE,
Solid Silver, 30s, £2.
Silver-plated, 12s 6d.
Send for list.
Other lines,
2s 6d, 4s6d, 6s6d,
10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Cut Glass Sterling Silver-
mounted
HAIRPIN HOLDER, ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
ENTREE DISH, makes two Dishes, pure Silve
plated on White Nickel Silver, 40s.
Other styles, £2los to £6.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM or BUTTER KNIVES
Silver-plated, Nicely Chased,
2s, 2s Cd, 3s, 3s 6d, 4s t>d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent’s TICKET or WALLET
CASE,
7s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
TWELVE 4 O’CLOCK TEA SPOONS and TONGS, in Silk-lined
Case Very Best Pure Silver-plated, 355. Similar, 30s, £2, £2 10s.
Six in Case and Tongs, 12s Gd, 15s, 20b.
CAKE KNIVES or FORKS, 20s, 255, 30s, £2. Latest London Rage.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Solid Silver HAIR BRUSH, in Silk-lined Case, as above, 30s.
Similar Styles, without case, 15s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
t O’CLOCK TEA SET, with Covers, Gilt inside, pure Silver-plated,
20 Years’ Guarantee, £2 10s ; worth £4 4s.
Other styles, £2, £3, £4.
LADIES, ™ LY CALL A r o
SEE OUR DISPLAY.
A. SAUNDERS
CARD RECEIVER, Latest
Pure Silver-plated and Ornamented, 20s.
Style.
VERY CHOICE.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD BOARD and KNIFE, Pure Silver-plated on Hard
Nickel Silver, Beautifully Chased and Ornamented. 355.
Can be used as CAKE DISH or SALVER.
Similar styles, 21s, 255, 30s, £2, £2 10s. A Useful Present.
THIS
LITTLE
PIG
A. SAUNDERS.
Child’s SPOON, Solid Silver. Chased, 7s 6d. The Very Latest and Newest Designs.
SWHM
HWp
A. SAUNDERS.
TEA INEUSER, to make a Cup of Tea, Silver-plated, 3s 6dahd4s6d. Very Useful.
9
SUGAR SCUTTLE, Square,
Handsomely chased and finished,
pure Silver-plated, 21s.
A Nice Present.
Other styles, 255, 80s.
A. SATJNDEES.
FIELD and OPERA GLASSES,
Fiist-class Lenses, Good Effect,
12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255, 80s, £2,
£2 10s, £3, to £l2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Sterling Silver CIGARETTE
CASE, SOVEREIGN PURSE, and
MATCH BOX combined, Handsomely
Chased, in Silk-lined Case, £2 10s.
Other styles, 30s, 85s, 40s.
l wsm
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER DISH, White Glass, Pure
Silver-plated, 15s 6d : larger size, £l.
Other Designs, 255, 30s, £2.
m
m
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class Silver-plated CRUET,
as above, 21s.
-ktftw/ndcty l
LONOONISVOMtY
m l
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER KNIFE and- JAM SPOON,
in Silk-lined Case, tlie Very Best Silver-plate,
Nicely Chased, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Send for Illustrated Price List.
A. SAUNDERS.
SALT CELLARS, 7s 6d, 8s 6d,
10s 6d, with Spoon.
' A. SAUNDERS.
Sterling Silver-mounted Paris Panel PHOTO. FRAMES,
355, 40s, 50s each.
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class 4-Bottle CRUET,
Silver-plated, 355. Similar, 255, 30s.
7^
m
A. SOUNDERS.
TOAST RACK, Pure Silver-plated,
in Every Stvle and Shape,
12s 6d, 15s, 17s iid, :sos. A Nice Present.
m
•
A SAUNDERS.
CAKE BASKET. Pure Silver-plated, Hand-chasel
and Embossed, as above, £4.
Similar patterns, 20s, 255, 30s, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
TEAPOTS, very pretty and useful, Pure Silver-
plated, Hand Chased and Ornamented, ids. Other
styles and patterns, 17s 6d. 20s, 3os. 30s, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Silver-plated HAIRPIN TRAY, Pierced and Engraved. Is 6d„
Pure Silver BOOK MARK, 2s Od.
A. SAUNDEBS.
OAK BISCUIT,
Silver-plated, Eluted rims,
with enamelled inside, 20s ;
plain rims, 15s.
E\oral China same price.
A. SAUNDERS.
PUEE BOX, Pure Solid Silver, Pretty and
Ornamental, 255.
Silver-plated on White Metal, 17s 6d.
Glass Bottom and Pure Silver Top,
10s, 15s, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
JEWELLER and SIL.VE RSMITH,
BEAUTIFUL DISPLAY OF PRESENTS.‘“pg
Mind, 815 GEORGE-STREET.
NEARLY OPPOSITE
RAILWAY STATION,
SYDNEY,


-
i^KOKO
foßf
HAIR
MISS ELLEN TERRY
'The great Actress writes ;-“l have used KOKO tor the Hair taf years end
can assure my friends that It slope the Hair from falling promotes its
growth, eradicates DandrifT. and is the most pleasant dressing imaginable.’
A 4/6 TRIAL BOTTLE. FOR 2/-
SPECIAL OFFER in AUSTRALASIA
to those who have
not vet tried
KOKO
•8-’O2 1
A 1
S6f t
ssss
f ers o on forwarding this Coupon with Postal
Note »or 2s. and Postage (postage is ninepence) will
receive immediately for trial, by parcel post, under cover.
P/e p^,d ' . one .r. e g; ui » r 12°2- bottle of Koko for the Hair.
the price of which is 4s. 6d. provided it is ordered within f 4
days from the date of this offer. In no case win
more than one bottle be sent for tbe use of the same person
on this Coupon, as we make the offer solely for trial, knowing
that it creates a demand when once used ; and this large bottle
gives it a fair trial. We find it better to thus practically olve
away one bottle to make a customer than to spend large amounts
,D a( f v ertising. Any person into whose hands this offer
00 -,- ![“•• f2 °'?A«" a^? e S U » S 0 e »?{ i Vs-tf*ffi}
not, tbe money Wll be'turned Th n P™"d'ng we are then issuing these trial Coupons, and if we are
«»" required when postage 1 l^ IS not°rioces*ary ,><> r,CB,¥ed '* '* Dmb * P, ««' *»"■•* *b
*— Dean’s Place is off 270 George Street
1/-i 2/6 & 4/6 per bottle. Chemists and Stores everywhere.
Hotel
Australia
RATES:
12s. 6d. per Day,
and upwards.
“ THE AUSTRALIA ” is loftily situated ; from
its dome, the Pacific Ocean can be seen, and the
whole of Sydney.
To its favorable and airy position, “THE
AUSTRALIA ” adds every comfort and appoint-
ment. It is fireproof from tower to basement;
and an efficient staff patrols the building day and
night. It possesses the most elegant of drawing-
rooms, handsomely appointed dining-rooms, cosy
bar lounges and winter gardens. The system
and attendance of the hotel are unsurpassable.
J. URL SMITH (Late of Menzies’), Manager,
Gastlereagh-st., Sydney.
THE SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
H H sweet! oh sad! its echo rang ;
U It wailed a half-forgotten woe—
The song—our song—the song I sang
When we were happy long ago.
It followed as I passed along
The dreary, grey suburban street;
To-day it thrilled insistent, strong—
In town to tune of passing feet.
Its very echo pierced my soul!
It chained me, trembling, to the spot.
I flung the singer, blind, a do'e—
So blind with tears I saw him not.
Oh sad! oh sweet! its echo rang—
It yearned—as yearns a soul in pain!
Once more I bore the parting pang—
Farewell! Farewell! Farewell again.
DOROTHY M‘C.
The Inky Way.
“These incidents show the efforts which are being
made by modern journalists to keep the public posted.
. . , 1 “
h uld not any Australian newspaper-office blush
through its stone or stucco while such stuff was going
over the machines? It is the S.M. Herald slavering the
Daily Mail and the D.T. of London for their enterprise
u.„o>AM n t, i. ~ f oc
in the b African peace news. But where was the Herald
and its enterprise at that juncture? Where the great
Australian newspaper combine, stronger in capital and
richer in annual revenue than any London proprietary?
All the “ great daily” enterprise Australia knows is in
the way of seeing how little can be given to the public in
return for the hundreds of thousands hauled in every
year. Even in our own home affairs the meagreness of
the record has in late years become scandalous. One of
the biggest stock famines, and the biggest attempt at
artificial stock-feeding ever seen in the world, has not
had one column of special expert description in any Aus-
tralian journal. But it is recorded with much solemnity
how schoolmaster Smith was testimonialised on leaving
Cow Flat, and what the handicaps were in the Dungog
ping-pong tournament. "
* * • *
Sydney Morning Herald is trying some type experi-
ments, or using up old founts, and nowadays appears in a
sadly ragged and woebegone condition, like a Granny
who has been out oh the tiles all night and has lost ail
her hairpins and has forgotten to wash her face. The
appearance of the organ of respectable dullness is even
worse than that of the “ illustrated ” D.T. However, the
S.M.H. tries no type experiments with the advertise-
ments ; they are the important part of the paper.
* * « *
S.M. Herald gets reckless in its old age ; t’other day
it actually committed itself to this : “ When seasons are
good, sheep and cattle are plentiful and prime; then
meat is good and cheap. When there is a succession of
had seasons, as now, sheep are scarce and meat is dear.’
The boldness, the ferocity of it, by Jingo ! ’
*»* ’ *
Horsham (Vic.) Times, July 22:—“Owing to pressure
on our space we are compelled to hold over our cable
news.” The space-pressure is chiefly due to a 3-col. re-
port of a shire council meeting. The Horsham editor a
trained bush journalist, knows what his readers want
and lets ’em have it, no matter if he loses a million over
his cable service.
Tolstoi is better. And the newspapers all round the
world, which had been waiting to weep over his death,
pigeon-hole their copy again with regret— all except S.A.
Advertiser, which had put its stuff into type, and wasn’t
going to “ dis ” it, and so said : “ The recovery of Count
Tolstoi is an event of interest to the whole world. His
death would have meant”—and then the regulation
column. The “boneyard” is a regular institution on
every daily paper. When Parliament is out of session
and work is slack, staff members are-put on to writing lives
of the still-living big saints and sinners of the world.
These are pigeon-holed for future use when the great men
die. This system explains why there is usually so much
“ woodenness ”in the matter. A pumped-out man is set
to work in cold blood, not under the stimulus of the feel-
ing which the report of a great man’s death gives. Henry
Parkes was put in the “ boneyard ” when, by a cab acci-
dent, he broke his leg : and the account then written was,
with a little addition and change, used by most of the
dailies when he died, years after, even though an entirely
different estimate of the man had then formed in most
minds.
* » * »
The censorship in S’Africa was just about as inept as
the rest of the military organisation. Bennet Burleigh’s
intimation to London D.T. as to the peace proclama-
tion contained the two words “ Whitsuntide greetings.”
The office-boy immediately looked up (he gospel for the
day and discovered this sentence—" Peace I leave with
you . . . Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be
afraid.” Wallace (the Daily Mail man) got in earlier with
a considerably more transparent, fake—“ s r endors (Boers)
finally accepted Alf.’s (Milner’s), offer Paxfontein gold
farm—terms satisfactory.” . . . The censor let the “ mining
message ” through.
• * * »
Sydney E. News is very careful indeed as totheN.S.W.
hangman’s feelings. In re the Shepherd-street tragedy,
a letter (perhaps a hoax) was picked up in Balmain pur-
porting to come from one of the suspects, which con-
cluded “ Die Fighting ralher than Nosey Bob.” The E.
News printed the sentence, “Die Fighting rather than
—— * (the hangman).” Touching tenderness for
Howard’s sensitive soul !
* * * *
Weather prophet Wragge’s new publication is appro-
priately named Wragge, but mis-spelt. Ostensibly
“ scientific, educational, practical," spp. are advts., 2pp.
laudation of we, us, and co., an alia podrida, in which
“The King,” “Myself,” the “Great Press of the Com-
monwealth,” and the “ Great Master of the Cosmos,” are
inextricably mixed ; and only 3pp. contain information
as to weather conditions. Some extracts from this
“ weather journal ” : “ Loyalty is our watchwoid to the
very core “ Disloyalty we rate as the greatest of sins.”
“ Truly a great providence watches King Edward. God
bless him !”
• * * *
Sydney Morning Herald’s account of a recent military
funeral states that the obsequies “closed with a feu-de-
joie by the firing-party.” This is as good in its way as
the D.T.’s notice of some pastry and confectionery sent in
by a foreign baker who was a tig advertiser. The re-
porter’s par. acknowledged the stuff as from “Messrs.
Oonliserie and Patisserie,” and it was so printed !
• * * »
At the exhibition in connection with the librarians’ con-
ference in March, 1902, was shown the first vol. of the
Port Phillip Gazette, labelled—“The first newspaper
printed in Vic.” An Argus correspondent, correcting
this, says rightly that the first newspaper -printed in Vic.
was No. 10 (Mar. 5,1838) of the Melbourne Advertiser,
There were only 19 numbers altogether ; the first nine
were hand-written. Fact was the owner, Johnny
Fawkner, had omitted to get a printer’s license (perhaps
he thought that his pub. license covered everything), and
got out of the difficulty by issuing a written paper. After
Fawkner’s Advertiser came the Port Phillip Gazette
(Oct. 27, 1838), published by George Arden (editor) and
Thomas Strode (printer); Strode had been overseer on
S.M. Herald. They had no funds, but plenty of pluck,
Fawkner revived the Advertiser, with which was in-
corporated the Patriot, on Feb. 16, 1839, with J. G.
Smith as editor ; it was the organ of the Van Diemen's
Land party.
* * » *
One morning recently, very early, the staff of a Mel-
bourne daily were the victims of a little misunderstand-
ing. Just as the first edition was being sent to press an
urgent ’phone message reached the office from one of the
reporters, breathlessly demanding that a cab should be
sent to his suburb instanter to meet him at the local
police-station. “ He’s on to a scoop,” remarked the sub,
with certainty, and “ collared ’’ the roundsman, sent
messengers to bring three other reporters out of their
beds, and ordered the comps, to wait around. An hour
passed and no news. The police didn’t know anything,
and the whole business was wrapped in darkest mystery.
About 4 a.m. the sub. wrathfully shut down, heaping
curses upon the man whose copy hadn’t arrived.
Just then the roundsman appeared and reported with
much grin that he had been out to the residence of his
excited colleague and got the strength of the whole
“ sensation.” It was the arrival of a “ little stranger,’*
and the reporter wanted the cab to bring a doctor.
• * * •
When the late Chief Justice Higinbotham sur-
rendered the editorship of Melb Argus, in ’59, the pro-
prietors bought him a gold watch as a souvenir ; but
honest George, for some reason, declined to accept it.
The watch was hung up in the office cupboard, and no-
body knew what to do with it. In ’63, however, a man
with genius enough to solve the knotty problem came
along. This was J. O. King, the new manager. He said :
“The case is as plain as a pikestaff. I am manager;
what does nob belong to anybody else in this office belongs
to me.” So he took the watch. King’s name will live in
history on account of another autocratic measure which
is stfll in force. Up to the time of his advent two guineas
was the sum paid for Argus leaders. He knocked off the
shillings, reducing the pav to £2.
* * * *
Vic. country press item:—“As Constable leaves
early next month, a meeting will be held on Tuesday
night to arrange for a Malediction that will suitably
express the feelings of the townspeople towards him.”
Same paper lately stated that “the accursed woman
pleaded guilty to the charge.”
»'* * *
In an obituary notice on the late Brunton Stephens
Brisbane Courier (Queensland’s leading daily !) remarks :
—“ He resided for a time with his cousin, Mrs. Walter
Hill, at Kangaroo Point, and among the pupils which he
had then was the present Premier of Queensland (the
Hon. R. Philp), who he endeavored to teach Latin, Greek,
and French.”
* * • *
Re the corrections which legislators are permitted to
make in their Hansard speeches. A few years ago an en-
raged Member cried “ Its a damned lie ! ’’ across the floor
of N.S. W. Assembly. The S.M. Herald reporter “ took ”
the expression and, suspecting that it might be questioned
in the cool light of next day, secured a Hansard proof
before leaving the House. The expression was published
and the Member indignantly denied ever having used such
language, showing a copy of Hansard in support of his
denial. But to the utter discomfiture of the Member the
uncorrected proof of the Parliamentary records was still
in the reporter’s possession.
When Edward Wilson visited Melbourne in 1863-4
to make fresh arrangements in the Argus office, he
noiselessly entered the editor’s room at 9 o clock one
Sunday evening l and found that overburdened man just
putting the finishing touches to a drawing of a large and
umbrageous oak tree on his blotting-pad. 8
proprietor sought an interview with the sub-editor.
That important personage was sound asleep in his chair,
his head buried m a heap of newspapers flanked by an
empty quart pot. The saturnine Edward left without
speaking a word to a soul, the only other person about
(the head printer) having fled for his life on seeing the
apparition of the proprietor on the stairway. But wasn (
there trouble next day ?
* * * *
“Ita”: As to par. in “Inky Way,” of July 12, H. E.
Watts was the Melb. Argus editor who wrote of some
prominent political settlement that it was ‘ hke the
peace of God, which passeth all understanding. oame
writer made a neat thrust at the late Dr. Macadam, sec.
to the Vic. Exploration Committee. When Mac. went to
Sandridge pier to receive the remains of Burke ana Wills,
the article said, “ Dan. O’Connell boasted that he had
stood at the cradle of Irish Liberty, and also at its grave.
The sec. to the V.E.C. may justly say that he stood at the
cradle of Victorian exploration, and that he also stooa, or
tried to stand, at its grave.” The irate Doc. threatened
a libel action, but thought better of it after a while.
Watts has been on the London press since ’65. lor years
he contributed the reviews of “ Current Literature to
Melb. Argus —the best thing of the kind the paper has
ever had. Five years ago, he published a translation or
“ Don Quixote,” that had a good reputation.
* • • *
Things have improved with the Melbourne Age since
the early ’7o’s, what time Baptist pastor Poole edited the
paper with a very small staff. In those days Dav d Syme
watched the adv'ts. with a keen Scotch eye. “ I’ll give
the staff a picnic when they reach 3 c 015.,” he promised.
The advts. in Saturday’s Age nowadays run to 103 cols.
* * * *
James Smith, the veteran Melbourne journalist, writes,
at over 80 years of age, with as much facility as in the
days of his earlier work on the Argus staff. It is said
that he can turn out an Age leader as quickly, and with as
much information at his finger-tips, as writers of half Ins
years, and that the freshness and verve of his descriptive
articles often change the nil admirari attitude of the edi-
torial mind into one of warm appreciation. He is, besides,
a constant contributor to the Harbinger of Light, the
organ of occultism in Melbourne, now well over its -30th
year of publication—his reviews, scraps of verse, and
occasional articles showing no sign of weariness or failing
powers. James Smith is, in fact, a living protest against
a theory oft-repeated in The Bulletin’s Red Page, that
men past 40, and women past 80, have done their best work
as writers, and that little more can be expected from them.
* * * *
There was a significant incident in connection with the
recent peace news. Melbourne Herald, rightly antici-
pating that Mabriland, the prospective colonial military
depot, would be favored with first news, proposed to
Acting-Premier Joseph Ward to wire them directly he
heard of the proclamation. Always willing to make
friends, the compound Radical agreed, and the Herald
made a scoop.
Henry Fletcher to The Bulletin on
“ Loudon ” :
What hgs induced “ L.M.” to limn in rosy scroll the city
I know so well—to make a mirage of a nightmare ? And,
lest Australians, tempted by the picture, should pilgrim-
ate en masse, I tell what I know, in soberness, as one
born and bred in that dark and fearsonie city of the
Thames.
The color-scheme of London is soot. To a clouded sky
is added a canopy of soft coal-smoke some hundred feet
thick, that drapes the city with a pall, year-in, y'ear-ou*.
Rain and fog bring this smoke down in small, black, evil-
smelling flakes, making a permanent fresco in soot on ali
exterior objects. Statues, public buildings, house fronts,
even the bark of trees, all are grimed to blackness. No
light clothing can he worn without defilement ; and those
who wisely breathe through the nose find in the handker-
chief the iiorrors partly saved from the lungs. Londoners
do not know what rain is—fresh, sweet, Heaven-smelling
rain. They give that name to a dirty slush they guard
against by the constant carriage of an um rella.
Then there are many days of pea-soup fog, making a
night-darkness and a stink all its own ; and there are the
dry months, when the east wind blows, without ceasing,
a razor-edged blast i hat slays wholesale the old, the
young, and the weakly.
The streets of London, for the greater part, may be
likened to those of Waterloo, in Sydney, or of
Collingwood, in Melbourne, only they are narrower and
more begrimed with muck. The roadways 9 days in 10,
are a slush of treacly black mud, and the house-fronts, as
in our own mean streets, of a prison-like uniformity. The
cottage is not known in true London. Always the
terrace-house, mile after mile, street after street. Two
storeys, or three, or four—squalid or solid ; but all
unclean, unlovely. The most fashionable squares arid
terraces have the stables right under the back windows;
and a lane at rear called “ a Mews,” where sordid Poverty
sits and shivers.
Human misery, indeed, is the keynote of public life ;
in no London crowd or gathering do you escape the sight
of pallid faces, of dirty, broken clothes, sickly children,
and drink-sodden men and women. Such foul clothing
as is commonly worn by the poor of London is not found
on any other people, save, perhaps, the most degraded
Polish Jews.
But there is light even in the blackness of London. The
gilded public-house signboards are in perpetual evidence,
along house-copings, sides and front. These drinking-
places are at every corner and at many intervals between !
“ Oharrington, Head and Oo.’s Entire,” “ Truman, Han-
bury Buxton and Oo.’s Entire,” and so on—these are the
gods to whom London pays tribute in much porter and
four-ale. At night these temples are a blaze of light-
gleaming invitingly through the fog and rain; and,
crowding there, Gin gives the one joy of the day to the
multitude.
From lack of sunshine, and the imbibing of much soot,
the average Cockney is pallid, undersized and narrow-
chested. Two years of good food and fresh air in the
army or navy transform him and remove the curse.
Most Londoners spend a quarter of their waking lives in
going to and from their work, and their chief talk on the
journey, when they are not coughing or spitting, is of the
awful, uncertain, horrible weather.
There are a few beauty-spots in London—of a beauty
accidental and enhanced by rarity. The Thames Em-
bankment at night, the West End parks on a spring day,
when the sun chances to penetrate the smoke ; the river
scenery, even with the fog, or perhaps because of the fog,
with its countless sailing barges and little steamers
looming suddenly out of mysterious darkness on the
yellow lapping tide, and, so passing, a series of vignettes
like lantern-slides. But beauty, as a cult, or as a common-
place, is foreign to this city, and this people, who in their
form-blindness and color-blindness cling to their grime
and smoke with stubborn fanaticism.
L.M. writes, doubtless, of a few West End streets and
parks, seen with imaginative eyes ; but that is not London
—nor a one-percentage thereof. True London is a vast
horde of over four million people, for the most part
badly-clothed, ill-fed, and with only cne day’s poor wages
between them and pauperism—a people to whom ugliness
ana dirt have no voice ; while, as for the well-to-do, the
GROUNDS FOR SUSPICION.
BAEREIGH ( the pub.-keeper who has never been
known to turn it on free): " ’Ave a drink,
Bill?”
BUFFLER BILL: “ W'y, ain't it good?"
accustomed sight of misery has made them so callous that
they can laugh as they walk the streets while half-clad
famine jostles them unheeded. This is London.
From Reynolds’ Newspaper :
The growing physical incapacity of Londoners is shown
in the fact that, apart from the enormous amount of
private attention from medical men, no less a sum than
£1,000,000 was spent on hospital work. This is a startling
and disgraceful fact, due, in great measure, to the rash
and early marriages by which superfluous children are
begotten before the parents are in a position to properly
provide for them. Think of the appalling fact that dur-
ing 1900 just 2,090,000 persons were treated in the London
hospitals ! The decay of the race has turned the metro-
polis into one vast lazar-house where the very air is
tainted with human corruption. Thus one-half the
population of London are either diseased or criminal.
Ifow long can a nation endure under such conditions ?
London is Tory, because it is a city of invalids.
The truth about the Bushveldt Carbineers
and certain Australian scapegoats. Read “Bush-
man and Buccaneer ” (embodying all the bush and
other verses of “The Breaker,” Harry Morant,
with a memoir of his life), by Frank Renar. Price
one..shilling. Wholesale from Edwards, Dunlop
and Co. Retail all booksellers and Bulletin
office (post free Is. Id.)
The English of the educated Babu seems
likely to be rivalled by the educated Kaffir. From
a Kaffir railway-official rebuked for his drinking
habits:
Having promu'gated my conduct of drinking presump-
tuously, I beg to tell me nominally the person informed
you. When you addressed your inspection I perceived
dishonest intermeddling otherwise I am not a controver-
sial acumen. Remember you are forced to tell me, the
matter is not to be approbated clandestinely, because it
was proclaimed publicly. Questions of the answer will
so oblige yours truly'
Enterprise will tell. Mr. A. Saunders, of
815 George-street, Sydney, has made a substantial
addition to his already extensive jewellery show-
rooms, where visitors may wander through a gor-
geous wilderness of clocks of all designs,
watches in unlimited variety, and whole
stacks of silver and electro plate.
Sprinkled over the white glitter are
cases scintillating with precious stones,
where the blue of the sapphire alter-
nates with the guilty red of the ruby,
and diamond lights mingle with the
refulgence of the opal. Silver swans
with jewelled eyes float past with velvet
pincushions between their wings ; vases
of tinted glass rise from fronds of silver ;
biscuit barrels of polished oak, bound
with silver, throw a darker gleam
between, and everywhere there is an
atmosphere of gorgeous, scintillating
luxury. All the thousand and one
beautiful things, which make thfe plain,
ordinary woman a dream of delight, are
here in the wildest profusion,;and at
bedrock prices. Australia is a country
where the class of people who can
wear jewellery running into thousands
of pounds is so limited as to be prac-
tically non existent. Even that class
which can accumulate a few hundred
pounds’ worth is frightfully limited, and
it is for the great mass, whose means only allow
them to have a few nice silver table articles, and
a bracelet or two, with a few pretty brooches and a
muff chain for the wife, and a neat diamond ring
for the husband, that Mr. Saunders has laid
himself out to cater. His show-rooms are full of
beautiful and useful articles, and although the
wealthiest can find there all that he desires, the
great mass of the goods have been created for the
benefit of the man of Rothschild tastes and plain
J. Smith finances.


A FREE VETERINARY BOOK.
A most useful Veterinary Book is attached
to every bottle of Condy’s Fluid. This Book
contains instructions for curing most of the
ailments and accidents affecting Horses,
Dogs, Sheep, Cattle and Poultry.
In this Book eminent Veterinary Sur-
geons recommend Condy’s Fluid as a
certain cure for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs,
Broken Knees, Grease, Thrush and
Cracked Heels in Horses. —Scab, Foot
Rot, Fly, etc., in Sheep.—Hoove, Foul in
the Foot, Wounds and Sores in Cattle.
Condy’s Fluid is made by Condy &
Mitchell, Ltd., of 65, Goswell Road,
London, England, and is sold by all
Chemists and Stores. Beware of Colonial
substitutes. Insist on having Condv’s Fluid.
■bbubibi Cecil
& Restaurant
Largest and most magnificent Hotel in Europe.
Overlooking the picturesque Embankment Gardens and river.
LONDON.
Moderate Charges
Bedrooms, light and attendance included, from os. per day. Breakfast, from 25.;
lunch, 3s. 6d.; dinner, 6s. Suites, ensuring absolute privacy, from 245. per day.
Telegraphic Address: CECELIA, LONDON.
A. JUDAH, Manager.
fd
GrO TO HBLL-
Kim.ANli for Pretty-Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred, Nageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
HATS--- HATS. hats.
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes tatted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons*
BRISBANE.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Duke of York’s “ghost” calls the
diary of the Imperial tour “ The Web of Empire.”
Will you walk into my parlour?’ said the
spider to the fly.”
There are now two rival female political
organisations in N.S.W. separated by a gulf of
bitter hatred. When women actually get to work
as voters in N.S.W. there will be much good
claw-work.
Under Premier Philp’s retrenchment
scheme the public servant with £450 a year loses
10 per cent, and the one above that 15 per cent.
So the man with £450 gets £405, and the man
with £460 gets £391.
N.S.W. Cabinet solidarity is not what it
used to be. Woman’s suffrage is so big a question
that Premier See challenges the Leg. Assembly
to put up a hostile vote, and so little a question
that Attorney-General Wise openly ridicules it,
and hands over its advocacy to Suttor.
Barton is the No-Yes politician from the
Imperial standpoint. Note his title and his atti-
tude on the Brodriclc proposal to make Australia
a barrack-yard for J. Bull:
On Edmund England strove to press
A title. Edmund answered “ Yes ! ”
But when she asked the quid pro quo,
As promptly Edmund answered “ No 1 ”
Dry Dog Reid privately stated, a few
weeks ago, that there are three Victorian seats
held by Protectionists M‘Coll, Isaacs, and
Phillips—which he hopes to gain for Freetrade at
next general elections ; and that with those seats
in the hands of Vic. Freetraders he can become
Federal Prime Minister in next Parliament.
Hence the recent stump campaign.
The reappearance of the Iron Bonus Bill
in the House of Reps, evoked one opinion, to the
effect that there was no hurry about establishing
a new industry for a year or two, anyhow. Why,
cert’nly ! In that year or two, on present appear-
ances, the money Australia will have borrowed
for relief works will amount to more than it will
manage to repay in 100 years. But there is no
hurry !
A WAY OUT OF IT ALL.
Concerning the Catholic, Episcopalian, Scotchby-
terian, Hardshell Baptist, and other pothers, re the
kind of oath that shall be sworn, let him swear on
the whole Cyclopcedia.
E. W. Owe’Sullivan reckons that he has
the reversion of the N.S.W. Premiership when
John See retires to gloat over his title. But the
Labor party (with Wise in its eye) is not quite so
sweet with the Owe’S. now as of yore, which dis-
counts his.chance somewhat. Further, John See
is credited, in some quarters, with an intention to
recommend that J. H. Carruthers be sent for to
form a Coalition Ministry when he gives up the
reins. There is a pretty general impression that
Mr. See does intend to give up office shortly.
Attorney-General Gordon told S.A. Leg.
Council that it was rumored there was a lot
of loafing at the Islington railway workshops.
The men were indignant, and demanded a
thorough inquiry by independent experts.
Gordon calmly remarked that all he desired
had been accomplished by stirring the work-
men up, and he refused to let his statements
be inquired into. Here is another proof of the
“slump” in Labor politics in S.A., for Gordon
was once a member of the Kingston Govt, and a
pretended Radical.
Cabled that Canada imports 20,000 English
harvesters to gather this year’s wheat crop. The
protected Dominion employs so many of its
workers in its own manufactures that when one of
the great “natural industries” booms a little
extra it actually has to import labor—and not
from the handy country alongside, the protected
U.S. A., but from Freetrade England.
Adelaide’s ex-Mayor Tucker moves in the
S.A, Assembly to cut the salary of M’s.P. to £lOO.
He is now a high-class Tory, although on three
occasions he contested city or suburban seats as
an extreme Radical. Then he changed his views
and his objective and -ran off to a country seat in
National Ass. uniform. It was Tucker who
turned King O’Malley out of S.A. Parliament.
A cable in which Sydney Freetrade papers
give away, very injudiciously, Freetrade election
tactics in England (Leeds bye-election):—
Electioneering placards contrasted a big Liberal and a
little Protectionist loaf, although the price of bread
remains practically unaffected by the corn duties.
How often has that trick been played with success
in Sydney ? And even now they are trying to
play it on the tariff issue.
“ Civis ” writes :
Tub Bulletin repeats the inaccurate statement of the
Argus that Crouch’s question in the Reps, as to the
election of a Governor-General was “ received with
laughter.” On the contrary, there were cheers all round
the Chamber when the idea was put forward, and the
Tory paper’s suggestion of jeers is its only cover to what
it recognises as a strong current in a strongly democratic
Parliament. Crouch, by the way, believes in the Imperial
connection, but stands up strongly for Australian rights.
The continual buttering of Labor-leader
Browne by the Q. Boodle papers—seemingly taking
their cue from Premier Philp’s laudatory speeches
at the close of last Parliament—in conjunction
with their constant abuse of Browne’s party, looks
like an organised attempt to shake the confidence
of his supporters. But the attempt will fail.
“Billy” Browne has the confidence of his fol-
lowers to an extent rarely enjoyed by a party-
leader.
After Isaacs, K.G., had spent days racking
his brain over what seemed an informality in the
swearing-in of Acting Gov.-Gen. Tennyson, and
when the public were worked up to the point of
expectancy, Deakin drowned the promised sensa-
tion by stating that the swearing-in was in accord-
ance with a private despatch from Chamberlain.
But ,why was the despatch private ?—and why
didn’t Deakin reveal it before Isaacs sweated and
the public held its breath ?
Treasurer Joseph Ward says that the
securities of Maoriland command a better price in
London than those of any Australian State, and
S.M. Herald believes the statement to be true.
Therefore it seems that the British capitalist is
just yearning to lend money to the State which
has carried socialistic ideas further than any other
in the British empire—yet the Herald is always
urging this country to beware of socialistic
legislation for fear of scaring away capital.
The new batch of Consolidated Bills
whicli kept N.S.W. Assembly up all night
lately may or may not be what they are
alleged to be, and members are not afforded
time or opportunity to ascertain whether
the Bills correspond with the originals.
Mr. Dangar, in the Leg. Council, pointed
that difficulty out when a batch of them
was thrown on the Council table nearly
two years ago. There is simply a certificate
from a barrister that they do correspond,
and both Houses are expected to accept
that as final. In the Assembly on this oc-
casion, lawyer Levy asserted strenuously
that, in some respects, the consolidation
was open to serious criticism, but by the
free use of the gag he was prevented from
even pointing out what were the alleged
faults.
S.M. Herald, in its financial column
of 25th July, alluded to the United States
as “ the most prosperous community in the
world.” Surely the S.M. Herald had been
drinking that day ! Isn’t the U.S. blighted
by the curse of enormous Protection ?
Isn’t it afflicted with a Government paper
currency—the amount in actual circulation
is £170,000,000, equal to over £2 per in-
habitant, or times the bank-note circula-
tion of Australia, and there are banknotes
in the U.S. in addition? Doesn’t it nefa-
riously subsidise new industries, and dis-
courage the investment of foreign capital
in the country so as to make room for
local capital ? Doesn’t it shut out imports
in the most rigid fashion ? And by doing
all these things, that the Herald says
Australia shouldn’t do, it has come to be
“the most prosperous community in the
world ! ”
The Tasmanian Parliament contains
no labor members ; consequently the island
is unaffiicted with labor-legislation. Yet,
nowhere are the daily newspapers so
savagely anti-labor, and in no State was
such bitterly prejudiced evidence given
by employers before Vic. Factories Commis-
sion. Tasmanians still most solemnly argue
against interference with the liberty of the sub-
ject, though, since Transportation ceased, they
have experienced less interference with liberty
than any of their over-sea neighbors. Queer!
At least one section of Maoriland Farmers’
Union has given up the idea of wrecking Seddon,
and is now modestly agitating for the distribution
over the country of prize bulls at Government
expense. This is as it should be. A Union of
Farmers which cannot keep' its treasury in
sufficiently decent order to' be able to pay its
secretary the 20 guineas voted him had better
give up trying to smash a fighter like old man
Seddon. Begging for cheap bulls is much more
in its line.
Another lovely result of the Kyabram
retrenchment, movement in Vic. is an edict of the
Education Department that in future every young-
ster shall have only Bsq. ft. of floor space
instead Of 10. This, though, makes no real
difference to the kiddies, whom the cheese-
paring policy of successive Govts, has for
years past jammed in about 4sq. ft. of floor
space during school hours. In some country
schools half the children are habitually taught out
of doors, in all weathers, because there isn’t room
inside, and each shiftless Government says it
hasn’t any money to build more schools. As for
the district that wants a new, up-to-date school
passing the hat round locally, they don’t do that
sort of thing in Australia.
Premier Lewis's proposal to
abolish Tasmania’s Upper House, and
put 10 members elected on the Council
franchise and 20 members chosen on
the Assembly franchise in one Cham-
ber, is discussed by the island press in
a hushed tone —as if there were a
dead body in the room. The gene-
ral decision seems to be that, if
sufficient care is taken “toconserve
the recognised rights of property,”
as one paper puts it, the proposal
may do. And, certainly, the rights
of Property should be conserved.
A really useful reform would be to
abolish manhood and womanhood
suffrage, and have one House
elected solely by property-owners
—one property-owner one vote,
and only property-owners eligible
as members. Every citizen and
citizeness is a Property-owner by
virtue of his or her share in the
public estate, railways and other
assets. Every adult in Tasmania
owns nearly 100 acres of public
estate as his or her share, and if a
vote was allowed on that account
then Property would be duly re-
presented, and the prejudices of the island re-
spected, and Tasmania would have a decent con-
stitution at the same time.
Denny, M.P. (S.A.), delivered himself
thus in a criticism of the in-and-out running of
the Jenkins Ministry: “The Govt, have been
twitted with their notable ‘ reversals of form,’ and
had the same tiling happened on the racecourse
they would have been called before the stewards
and disqualified for life.” Folk are asking who is
the real Premier of S.A. Jenkins Iscariot fills the
office and draws the pay, but the Ministerial dance
is according to the tune played by the Tory
panjandrum, Opposition-leader Darling.
Most times nobody shudders at a State’s
deficit; pretty well everyone makes some remark
about our magnificent resources and lets the thing
slide. But just now in S.A. that State’s deficit is
being held up as an Awful Thing, and the State’s
condition is represented as being perilous, and it
is hoarsely whispered that notlring but a certain
railway, or a dock, or something of that sort will
save it. Also, of course, the State having a
deficit already, can’t think of doing the work
itself; but private enterprise ! It’s a dry
bone that the wolf can’t get a morsel from.
The. importunity of Chamberlain to have
the Commonwealth raise its Governor-General’s
salary shows that in one Imperial idea Britain has
gone back on itself. In 1846, Earl Grey, in a
despatch to N.S.W., then practically the Com-
monwealth territory, proposed that England
should provide the whole of the Governor’s pay.
Several members of the then Leg. Council adopted
the proposal, but a majority rejected it. Earl
Grey feared that if Australia paid its Governor it
would own him and rule him, and held that Im-
perial interests demanded that he should be owned
and ruled by England.
Noted, as instancing the enormous abuse
of the franking system in Tasmania, that in 1901
no fewer than 1,371,000 letters were franked—
standing for one-seventh of the whole letter-
carrying business of the State. The franked tele-
grams, if paid for, would have brought the State
£50,000. In Tasmania all letters and wires sent
by, or addressed to, M’s.P. go free, and many
members resort quite openly to every possible
dodge of the game. They frank all their own
correspondence, and all their families’. Last year
a housemaid, applying to Mrs. X. for a billet, got
a reply by post franked by Mrs. X.’s husband, a
Leg. Councillor.
In view of the proposed Queensland income
tax, the usual agitated scare-monger (who is some-
times employed in the office and sometimes not)
writes to Brisbane Courier saying that “one
English firm alone withdrew £3,000,000 last year
from Victoria because of the income-tax.” If this
is true, then Victoria is £3,000,000 less in debt
than it was before, and the English firm has appa-
rently taken its money back to its own country
(where the income-tax is Is. 2d. in the £). But
what English firm has =63,000,000 invested in Vic-
toria? And how has £3,000,000 been withdrawn,
without the money leaving the country? The
banking returns have not exhibited any serious
decline in the local stock of cash.
A reverend gentleman at an Orange pow-
wow in N.S.W. having 'straightly alleged an
instance of “a political appointment based on
R.C. influence,” Arthur Griffith, M.L.A., asked
for the exact facts so that he could get a Parlia-
mentary committee to investigate. Then the
pastor replied that
there was not the least probability of Parliament appoint-
ing- any such committee, but suggesting that a select
committee should be moved for, to investigate the whole
question of sectarianism in the public service.
It is a very poor grievance indeed that dare not
allege one specific instance. The parson if he
can’t produce his facts should hold his tongue
instead of suggesting a fishing-expedition.
The Tory press is very solid in its decision
that Premier Irvine,- of Victoria, was wrong in
putting his reduction of members proposals and
his Council Reform proposals in one Bill, because
by trying to get Council Reform (which is worth
a million or two) he runs the risk of losing the
reduction of members (which is worth at least 2d.).
It points out that if he had sent up two separate
measures the Council would have gladly passed
the Reduction of Members Bill and indignantly
thrown out the Reform proposals. Now it may
pass both of them, or it may reject both, and the
Tory press is grieved in its inmost soul that
Irvine should have hazarded 2d. —a good, sure 2d.
—in reaching out for a million or two.
“ Government Rounds ” writes from Mel-
bourne :
Though Vic. Premier Irvine proudly boasted when
forming his team that he was going to be boss himself,
Treasurer Shiels hasn’t taken long, to put himself on the
“ equal-in-all-thin gs” footing that he had with Allan
M‘Lean. Irvine never ventures on doing anything of the
smallest moment without consulting that Sir Oracle, and his
Ministry of “ strong men ” are in the same box. Their
whole time outside Parliament is spent in Cabinet
meetings. As the Govt, virtually has no policy outside
its Reform Bill and the lopping off of minor public service -
salaries, it should have fewer Cabinets than most of its
predecessors. The “Strong”- Ministers M’Kenzie,
Cameron, Murray, Robert Reid, and Irvine himself have
so far shown themselves incapable of deciding even the
most trivial departmental matters without recourse to
nominally the Cabinet, but in reality Shiels. And what
that man of mystery says goes.
AND THEY PROBABLY DID SO.
WAITER: “ What'll you take to drink, sir?”
JOVIAL PARTY (who is on a jay): “No; you
’ave one with me.”
How delightfully ingenuous is Premier
Balfour! Announcing to the Commons that a
Royal Commission had been appointed to inquire
into the conduct of the S’African war, he stated
that it would only deal with the—
“ Operations until the occupation of Pretoria. The
Government did not consider it necessary to inquire into
what had transpired in South Africa subsequent to the
occupation of Pretoria.
Didn’t consider it necessary ! Bill Sikes, coming
home furtively from a little expedition, challenges
the world on his actions—up to the time he left
Sunday-school! That the Boer war was conducted
as humanely as such an enterprise could be, under
Lord Roberts, is generally admitted. It is the
events after his departure from S’Africa that hint
of the unspeakable and demand investigation.
Concerning the Napoleonic methods of
S.A. Premier Jenkins :
S.A. Register, with a series of articles by a wrner sign-
ing himself “Financier,” has been sooling on the Govt, to
massacre the Civil Service in the interests of economy.
“Financier’s” particular brand may be gauged by his
reply to a query as to why he didn’t suggest the abolition
of the Leg. Council, with its expensive staff, maintenance,
printing, etc. He considers the Council the only check
on hasty legislation, . . . saves the country untold wealth,
etc., etc. The Govt, has obediently rushed in and with
great violence sacked a few bloated servants at salaries
mostly ranging from £lOO to £2OO (some of them had
turned grey in attaining the latter magnificent reward).
The most rigid apostle of thrift could hardly expect these
men to have saved a competency. There is absolutely no
chance of employment elsewhere —except on the Govern-
ment relief works for the unemployed. The Ministry
may proudly claim to have originated one great stroke of
economy—no fires have been allowed in the Govt offices
this winter 1
Old man M ‘lntyre, of Vic., after opposing
the Referendum bitterly all his useless, stodgy,
political life, was suddenly converted by the near
approach of reform, and demanded a popular vote
to decide whether there should be 46 or 72
M’s.L.A. and 23 or 36 M’s.L.C. He didn’t pro-
pose to let the people say whether they wanted
any other number, or whether they wanted any
Leg. Council at all; and if his idea had been
accepted —which it wasn’t—he would doubtless
have pointed tearfully to the absence of any popu-
lar mandate as a reason why the House of Land-
lords should keep all its obstructive fossils
intact. The Referendum is an institution that
the Tory highly approves of—when he has the-
fixing of the issues. What he would really like
would be to take a vote as to whether the
Assembly suffrage should be confined to people
with at least £5O a year income from property, or
to people with an income of at least £75 a year
from property, and whether Labor members should
be hanged or only drowned.
“It is the smart young man of the Vic.
public-service who suffers most severely under the
Shiels - Irvine retrenchment system,” writes-
“ Galleryite ” from Melbourne—
Everyone of the young fellows who have proved them-
selves able, energetic and gritty has thus been given the
worst kind of set-back. The private secretaries to Various-
Ministers supply cases in point. These advisers of the
usually stolid and unbusinesslike persons who attain to
political eminence in Victoria are all ambitious youngsters,
selected because they happen to possess the qualifications
mentioned, and they do more of the administrative
government of the country than their political chiefs
would have gumption enough to undertake by themselves.
Yet this is what happens to them under the Shiels-Irvine
policy. Peacock’s late secretary, a £2OO-a-year man with.
£5O a-year added in consideration of much extra;
work, lias just been shunted to a position in the Statist’s-
office, where his sole employment is the sort-
ing of cards with people’s names and other particu-
lars upon them, and his allowance has been knocked off :
in consideration of his untiring devotion to his late work.
Agriculture Minister Taverner’s secretary was due for a
small increment, and also received an allowance for-
spending half the nights of the year writing departmental
correspondence instead of going to choir-practice or join-
ing a two-up school. The reward of virtue in this case is-
something like £7O a year. Another young man, getting.
£6O a year, has for long done much gratuitous extra work,
as shorthander for successive Lands Ministers. Shiels.
sternly determined that he was not going to increase the
bloated opulence of the 225. 6d. a week man, and promptly
stopped his £lO rise. And I shouldn’t be at all surprised
to see the mouths of such unfortunates stopped with a
threat to deprive the public service of voting-rights,
before the whole thing’s settled.


BOOTS
FOR
MEN
POST FREE
AND
DUTY FREE
•••«>»
=> i
ii:
1
MM
,T ! i-'-',
$
m
m
HI
&
■
You
may
depend
upon
a perfect
fit,
perfect
comfort,
and
LONG
WEAR.
23/6
The CALLAGHAN Tan
WILLOW CALF Lace
BOOT, with made-to-order
appearance, whole goloshed,
fast color eyelets, in pointed
or medium toes,
A pair sent post and duty'
free to any address in the
Commonwealth upon receipt
of
24/6
The same style of Boot, in Black
Calf, for
23/6
With these Boots you will have better appearing
and more comfortable feet, exceptionally long wear,
and Save Money. If you live at a distance our
thoroughly systematised Mail Order Department will fit
you to your perfect satisfaction, or return your money. We
want distant customers to be as pleased as those in town.
State size of boot worn, and shape of toes desired.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 ceorce st., Sydney.
©TO7KJ ©©SaBDKJB®
ďfdf
©liwirapiiE?
Sandow’s Own
Combined Developer
The Latest and Most Popular Means
for PHYSICAL CULTURE at Home.
WONDERFUL IN ITS EFFECTS.
Will serve the purposes of a whole
family.
It may be used as:
1. Wail Exerciser (for arms, body and legs).
2. Heavy Weight-Lifting Exerciser.
3. Chest Expander.
4. Pair of Light Dumb-Bells.
A Complete Set of Charts supplied with eaoh
Apparatus.
S. HofFnung & Co., Ltd.,
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE.
_ , Sole Agents for Australia.
Quotations supplied to the Trade.
VITADATIO
QUEENSLAND SPEAKS.
C/o. Mrs. Tulk,
_ , _ Bowen Terrace, Brisbane.
S. A. PALMER, Esq.,
Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure in adding my testimony
(among the very many you have received from all parts
of the colonies) to the curative power of VITADATIO. I
have been suffering from indigestion for some considerable
time, and have tried various medicines without avail. I
am giad to be able to testify that VITADATIO has
effected a thorough cure. I will always be able to speak
of your medicine in the highest terms,' and can with
perfect confidence recommend it to anyone suffering from
the same complaint.—Yours truly,
(Signed) STEPHEN C. CARTER.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The Price of Medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
TOOTH-ACHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
BUNTER’S
Prevents Decay, Saves
Extraction, Sleepless Nights
Prevented.
Neuralgic Head aches & all Nerve
Pains removed by BUNTER’S
NERVINE. Of all Stores.
NERVINE
’';^ 8 * 6peciflc , *° r Tooth ache it has no equal. I have
used it successfully for years."—Prof. W. Wilson, M.D,
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE SwORSDELI'S PILLS
« r ln^ estion - Biliousness, Head ache,
JBpepsia, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, &c.
Of all Stores.
“Aurora”: One little instance of the
economical methods of N.S.W. P.O. Department.
From a “ one-man ” post office, 20 miles from this
town, the P.M. left, and a man was sent from the
P.O. here temporarily. (That was 10 months
ago). For that he receives a “relieving allow-
ance ”as well as his salary. Another man in the
local P.O. was placed in charge of the work
usually done by the man sent “ relieving,” and he
also received a relieving allowance (goodness
knows what for). Now this last man wanted a
holiday, and headquarters sent a “reliever” to
remain here until the first man has returned to his
office from the little bush P.O. All these men are
doing the same work, and the country is paying
three relieving allowances and travelling expenses
when there was no necessity to pay any, as any of
the three could have been appointed to the one-
man office.
BUSHMAN WATCH
warn.
d
_ / OUR FAITHFUL
//Q TIMEKEEPER
/ CunMetal'Case
Charles Read I C?
420 CEORCE ST SYDNEY, vv
Skins Soft&White
BY USING
sdfsdf
Health
Complexions Preserved.
NEURALGIA IS RESPONSIBLE ...
*■ for a great number of the careworn
faces so frequently met with both
in the city and country. All
neuralgic pains and headaches can
be speedily removed by taking
Newman’S SPECIAL neuralgia POWDER, 2/-
By post, 2/2.
NEWMAN, CHEMIST, 82 King-street. Sydney.
dfs
OWEN’S DANCING POWDER
For Ballroom Floors.
No Preparation Required.
Sprinkle it on the Floor.
The Dancers do the Rest.
2a. 6d. Packet covers
600 feet.
Sample Packet sent on
receipt of 3 stamps.
H. OWEN, 436 DoHins-St, Melbourne.
Influenza.
Influenza starts with a
sneeze—and ends with a
complication.
.It lays a strong man on
his back —as weak and
wretched as a sick child. It
tortures him with
fevers and chills,
headaches and back-
aches. It leaves him
a helpless prey to
pneumonia, bronchitis, consumption, and a dozen
other deadly diseases.
Avoid influenza by purifying and fortifying
your system with Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. If you
have let the disease attack you, you can still avoid its
dreaded after-effects by hastening and completingyour
recovery with this blood-builder and nerve-tonic.
In warding off the ailments of winter and in
curing all diseases of the blood and nerves, there is no
remedy in the world to compare with Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills for Pale People. There isn’t the
slightest doubt about that.
Here is one witness out of hundreds-
/G
ft
'o
A Farmer Cured. —“ Influenza laid me in bed for a month,”
writes Mr. John Bain, of Elmside, Yass. “Afterwards I caught
a chill and had a relapse, and that was worse than the first
attack. My head was splitting with pain. My back and
shoulders were wrenched with dull rheumatic aches. My
stomach was sick and turned against all food. I didn’t know
what sound sleep was. All strength seemed to leave me. For
six mouths I was under medical treatment, but the pain and
weakness continued until I used Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. Five
boxes cured me. They made me as strong as ever, and gave
me my old activity again. No one knows better than I that
they are a certain cure for influenza and its after effects.”
Sold by all dealers, or sent post paid for 2s 9d a box, or six boxes for 15s 3d.
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney.
At Poverty Point.
Quite beside the fact that she does come oit under
generous terms from Manager Musgrove, when all is
said, Melba makes a big financial sacrifice to visit her
native land. Her recent triumphant rontrie at Oovent
Garden in “ Rigoletto ” shows that, if she felt that way,
she might have filled in the time she will spend out here
in engagements at a far higher rate than she will ever get
in Australia. The trip means three months of idleness on
the water. Furthermore she will lose all private engage-
ment fees, there being few, if any, in Australia who would
or could disgorge her ordinary fee for attending a musical
“ at-home ” ; yet a big proportion of her income comes
from that source, as is proved by her agents lately
announcing that she is already engaged for 16 big musical
“ at-homes ”in London at 500 gs. a time. In each case the
host is a millionaire, local or imported, and members of
the Royal Family will be present—and the advt. resulting
from being reported on in such company is one which
even Melba would not sneeze at. Nellie Melba is not
coming out here to make herself richer. In Melbourne,
at any rate, she will spend a lot of money. She has taken
a big house with the intention of “ entertaining ” lavishly.
Her visit is to be a social event.
The amusing monkey-imitation that Edward Lauri
ogives when confronted with a real ape, in “A Chinese
Honeymoon,” recalls old times, when the Lauri Family
divided with the Martinettis the distinction of being the
best animal-imitants in London. The two troupes used to
be pitted against each other by rival panto, managers.
The Lauris seem to have split up completely, and the
remnant of the Martinetti crowd was here some time ago
doing clever dumb-show sketches, under Rickards’ man-
agement.
Oinquevalli is, with all his strength, a model of grace
and symmetry. There is no balloondike muscular develop-
ment : the limbs are smooth and graceful as a woman’s.
His is the strength of the panther—lithe, quick, sure—
rather than of the bull. The cannon-ball act, in which
Oinquevalli makes a heavy ball of iron play around his
arms and torso, as lightly as a will-o’-the-wisp around a
marsh, is a marvel of agility as well as of strength. The
cannon-ball runs from arm to arm, around the chest and
the back, propelled by the muscles, with swift certainty
—never a mistake, never too much or too little effort.
Since reaching Sydney, Oinquevalli has been suffering
from a knee-trouble, necessitating the care of a doctor
and a masseur, but he doesn’t let this interfere with his
act, nor with journeyings to the homes of Italian com-
patriots, who provide in his honor “maccaroni suppers.”
He can never resist the temptation of “ maccaroni cooked
by Italians,” says Cinque, “ and nobody else knows how
to cook it."
The announcement that Mrs. Langtry’s daughter,
Jeanne, was lately married to an ex-secretary of Lord
Salisbury came as a shock to most people. It is so long
since the “Jersey Lily” ceased to be identified with her
first husband. She bore his name into wondrous noto-
riety, but Langtry himself was never sufficiently in news-
paper evidence to suggest that his wife had borne him
any offspring. Nevertheless, it was Miss Jeanne Langtry,
daughter of the faded Lily, who married lan Malcolm,
M.P., the other week, and received a present from her
mother’s old friend, King Edward, with a note in his own
handwriting. By the way, what is the age of the bride ?
If the amateur “Runaway Girl” performances in
Melbourne produce £2OO profit for “the charities,” the
people who worried themselves for months in preparing
that vainglorious foolishness will have the satisfaction of
knowing that exes, were, roughly speaking, 60 per cent,
of the gross receipts. A much more successful dissipation
was the farewell afternoon-tea given to Grace Palotta at
Melb. Athenaaum. Receipts were considerably over £lOO
and expenses only 8 per cent. Included in the expenses
were light refreshments for 600 people who turned up.
The management of the “ charity ” entertainment in that
case was quite unimpeachable. The light refreshments
must have been light indeed.
Tom Nawn, in his latest sketch, “ The Political Candi-
date," at Melb. Opera House : “ I have to deliver an
address to-night to the Hebrew Hod-Carriers Union.”
Howls of laughter every time ; nobody asks for explana-
tions.
“ Cyrano de Bergerac,” which Henry Lee has intro-
duced to Australia as a translation of the famous French
play by Rostand, is the subject of an interesting scandal.
Rostand was elected a member of the French Academy—
the almighty Academy—by virtue of his romantic drama;
but two months ago the U.S. High Court granted a
perpetual injunction against Mansfield’s production of
the English version on the ground that Rostand stole the
original from the work of one Eberly Gross, a Chicago
litterateur. Gross proved his case to the satisfaction of
the American Court, anyhow, though in European
critical circles there is a tendency to treat it with
ridicule. Evidence showed that he offered a play
called “The Merchant Prince of Corneville ” to the
management of the Porte St. Martin, Paris, in 1876.
In 1896, or thereabouts, he published his story in
book-form, and when Rostand’s play came to light a
year later, it proved to be more or less identical with
Gross’s yarn. Thus far Rostand is under suspicion of
having taken his hero, Cyrano de Bergerac, from the
Chicago man’s imaginative story of that saintly historical
personage. It may be that both authors got their
respective stories from one obscure source, but this
theory is in itself a satire on the Academy’s exaltation of
Rostand’s genius.
“ Voce ” : “|A Little Letter from London ”(8., July 19),
is incorrect in stating that Melba was never patronised
by Queen Victoria. She sang twice before the late
Queen at Windsor, the second time being the period
during which the then allegedly-contemplated divorce
proceedings were under public discussiom. After that
H.M. became too infirm to attend even private concerts.
“ Melb.” : Lydia Yeamans-Titus is a sort of re-incarna-
tion of the Maggie Moore of 20 years ago. She has pluck.
She exhibits her photo., outside the Opera House, in
her own short-cut black hair, minus the ample wig of
golden shavings. Take me as I am. See what an
artist lam ! Unusual, but good.
“T.D.”: Re the legs of lady amateurs, I have joyous
recollections of an amateur performance of “ The Gon-
doliers” in a Maoriland town, and a mighty struggle
between the ladies of the chorus for the privilege of being
included in the section that wore tights. The contest
became so hot that the aspirants drew lots out of the
stage-manager’s hat, the blanks being condemned to the
wearing of dresses. My fun came in when listening to
the spiteful explanations by the disappointed ones of how
their chums in tights had overcome various defects in
their apparently solid foundations.
Strong man Sandow’s dates: Adelaide, Aug 12 •
Broken Hill, Aug. 27 ; Ballarat, Sept. 2 ; Geelong, Sept.’
5 ; Melbourne, Sept. 6.
Benefit performances in aid of the sufferers by the Mt.
Kembla calamity are already announced. Mr. Rickards
devotes a matinee on Monday next to the fund. Miss
Amy Oastles, under the direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson
contributes a concert on a date to be announced. ’
A variety co., organised by Rickards, leaves Sydnev foi
Maoriland on 20th inst. ; it will include Derenda and
Breen, the Jackson family, Winton and the Biograph.
Mrs. Ohas. Kean would insist on wearing hoops, both
on and off the stage. Her husband was helping her intc
a cab, when the hoop stuck. “ Don’t you see, Charles ’
she exclaimed, “that something is wrong?” “Yes J
see,” said he, “but I’m trying to keep other people from
seeing."


Banking. Public Companies, See.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
&
<5
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
3sr.s,-w.
H)ont deplete QJ|. Co., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
174 CASTILEREAGH ST., *74.
1 SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Tll Pi—
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Robhrtb,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,595,870.
Policies issued 88,29!)- assuring £26,826,380.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,767,115.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—eouitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE*
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
file Bank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director-JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp& Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... ... ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250 900 ... £350.000
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMIT 1C 1).
CAPITAL PAID-UP £451,307
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 181,859
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 56,000
£689,166
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE : 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
THE . . .
firry mUTUHL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
Established 1879.
HEAD OFFICE:
Intersection HUNTER, BLIGH and CASTLEREAGH
STREETS, SYDNEY.
The CITY MUTUAL LIFE Is generally
recognised as the most liberal and pro-
gressive institution of its kind in Austra-
lasia. It retains on its books a larger
proportion of business than any other
Life Office doing business in these States.
GEO. CROWLEY,
General Manager.
Queensland Smelting Qempy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
OUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
■D Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V.' S. DUJLN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street. Melbourne.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £15,000, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties,
and £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES,
FOR FIVE YEARS, *
WITH OPTION.OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
fsdf
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ud. of London
The Premier Accident and Guarantee I
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Sydney : Hon. A. W. : Meeks, M.L.G. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Hon. John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Borns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers : Melbourne, D. Clynk ;. Adelaide, W. N.
M'Fari.ank ; Brisbane, K. Wilson; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar.
j J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australia,
131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
A mount, of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £2,500,000
GEIMTS.^
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
L.D.I-i 300 Collins St., Melbourne
Sblpplng.
HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Leura, Saturday, August 9, 2 p.m.
► Buninyong, Tues., August 12, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, August 16, 2 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Steamer Early,
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Steamer Early.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Peregrine, Saturday, Aug. 9, 2 p.m.
Burwah, Tuesday, August 12, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, August 16, 2 p.m.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Peregrine, Saturday, Aug. 9, 2p.m,
Leura, Saturday, August 16, 2 p.m.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices —Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves —Foot of King-street.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
SALAMIS ..
ABERDEEN
DAMASCUS
T. F. Gambell
A. Robb
R. McKilliam
Noon, August 22
Noon, Sept. 12
Noon, Oct. 3
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. £55 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. £3l 10s .. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £l2O.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
Huddart, parker & (Jo's tine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Pares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
a m n
aj«v
via
San Francisco,
California.
SPLENDID NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS,
SIERRA
SONOMA
VENTURA
Over 6000 Tons each.
8000 H.P.
Length, 426 feet,
Passengers booked through to American, Canadian and
European centres at current rates.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO., ITT).
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts. SYDNEY.
TIME TABLE
THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
STEAMERS LEAVE
ARRIVE
FOR ACETYLENE GAS
sdfdsfd
“WE ARE
THE PEOPLE.”
Over 300 of our Reliable
Acetylene Gas Genera-
tors in daily use, and all
giving satisfaction.
We also supply Table,
Portable, Street, and
other Lamps for Acety-
lene Cas and all accesso-
ries.
We carry large stocks of
Carbide of Calcium.
Send for our No. 56
Acetylene Gas Catalogue
Martin’s Advance Acetylene Table Lamp. Price
James MARTIN & CO.,
161 Clarence Street,
I Nr. King-st., Sydney.
"T eyc tts
,’S
p/^ R(y L
o\\
Ett ca - 1
. ca #^ d cv^ eS
.. atv d Col ds.
a nd
Co^# s . ia i\o^ s *
TWO
id
fsdfs
dfd
FRINGES
Maao of the Best Natural Curly Hair,
from 3s. 6d.» ss. 6d., 7s. 6d., Bs. 6d.
to 10s. Gd. each.
W. H. WIGZELL
110 WILLIAM STREET,
SYDNEY.
PLAITS TAILS
?20in. long, 6s. 6d.; 20in., extra thick,
22in., 10s. 6d.; 22in., extra thick, 12s. 6d.
24in., 15s. 6d.; 24>in., extia thick, 18s. Gd.
26in., 205.; 26in., extra thick, 255.
28in., 305.; 30in., 35e.; 30in., extra thick, 40s.
Our PlaJts and Tails are twice as thick as
those sold elsewhere for the same money*
WIGS MADE TO ORDER.
TT AIR WORK DUTY S'K'EE TO OTHER STATES.
ďf
3NT. 33. 3L».
(NORD-DHUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
*Twin-scre\v steamer.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
Interstate First Class Return Tickets are now available
for Return by the Steamers of the P. and 0., Orient
Pacific, or M.M. Oo.’s.
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW
GUINEA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. STETTIN, 3rd SEPTEMBER,
And Regularly Thereafter.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, .Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. ' For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
MOST ATTRACTIVE EXCURSION.
Embracing
Queensland, Fiji, Hawaiian Islands,
Vancouver Island & Western Canada
by Aorangi, August 11.
£6O FOR 63 DAYS,
Including Hotel and Other Expenses.
Moana, Sept. 8. Miowera, Oct. 6.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
RUPTURE
CURED
operation
without
or pain,
Throw away
your Truss.
no detention from work, or depend-
ence upon Trusses. The only
humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
Treatise No. to. Address:
i SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C.S., ENG.,
Cob Russel* & Collins Sts.*
MELBOURNE
[jIMSELF CURED
Mr. Robert E.
HARKHURST
of Pitt St., Sydn y, says if any sufferer from DEBILITY,
KIDNEY or BLADDER DISEASE will write him he will inform
them of the perfect home cure that *lid the work in his case.
Sblpping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO7
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOE MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
POET PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
V
S.S. Innamincka,
Saturday, August 9.
S.S. Marloo,
Saturday, August 18
(Without Transhipment).
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Allinga, Friday, Aug. 8.
S.S. Innamincka,
Saturday, August, 16.
S.S. Warrego, Sat., Aug. 23.
Best and Cheapest Itoute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A.U.S.N. Co. and Howard Smith Co.,
Ld. For Adelaide and W.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Maokay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Twice weekly, via Bris-
bane, Maryborough, and Bundaberg.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every B Weeks, via Brls
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA
via MELBOURNE—Fortnightly.
Vassetil/er A coommodaiiou, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after tha
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Cp. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO, Ltd., Agents, 1(1 Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Porta
P. AND o.
COMPANY’S
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B to £77
Ditto Ditto Return, £66 to £ll5
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific,
Messageries Mari times and N.D.L. Steamers having room.
EDWARD TRELAWNY,
63 Pitt-street. Superintendent in Australia.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing andpassing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and 0.,
Orient Pacific and N.D.L. steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE TIIUY, Principal Agent.
“E. AND A.” LINE.
. . TO . ,
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with EVERY CON-
VENIENCE FOR TROPICAL TRAVELLING.
Through bookings to points in Canada, United States
of America and Europe at special rates.
Doctor and Stewardess carried.
Lowest Fares and Freights.
For further information apply to
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.,
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
SMOKE
<*°;
Tl££
zsxcv
xz
cs
vfx
INSIST
on having this Brand
and no other,
Largest Depot:
231 CLARCNCC STR€€T,
SYDNEY.


presents that mill please
’OU cannot possibly be disappointed by visit-
ing us, so come here whether you have
a definite idea of what you want or not.
We offer you the biggest variety and the most
reasonable prices it is possible to offer.
If you have not seen our new Catalogue,
ask us for one. If you live out of town
send us your name and address on a post-
card and you will get one by return mail.
No. F47OS.
Silver-plated
and Pearl
Bread Fork.
11a 6d.
No. F3462.—Fine Leather, and Silver
Mounted Pocket Book, 10s 6d.
m
No. F 3939.— Gent.’s Silver Hair
Brush, 21s.
No. 374 A.—6 Silver-plated Tea Spoons
and Tongs, 10s 6d.
No. 363.—A1 Silver-plated Sugar Tongs,
3s 6d.
SB
No. 253. —Solid Silver Match Box, 10s 6d.
No. E 9356.
Silver
Glove
Buttoner,
Is 6d.
cv
4/2 GEORGE t>r Sy DA , F y
No. 20.—Gent.’s Opal
Ring, 18ct. gold,
£4 10s.
No. EBo3l.—Tasteful 9ct. Gold Bangle, £1 lVs. 6d.
No. B4B9o.—Dia-
mond Ruby and
18ct. Gold Ring,
£3 10s.
No. M.— 15ct-. Gold and Opal Fly Brooch, £llss.
No. 120. —15ct. Gold, Diamond and Ruby
Brooch, £2 7s 6d.
No. 121 A.—loot. Gold Anchor Brooch
£ll2s 6d.
No. E6251.—9ct. Gold Bird and Heart
Brooch, 12s 6d.
15ct. Gold Heavy Band Bracelet, £4 4s. Smaller, £3
No. E6659.—9ct. Gold Engraved Bracelet, £1 ITs 6d.
No. 193.—Links, 9ct.
Gold, 15s 6d. 15c.
Gold, £llos. Silver,
4s 6d.
No. 197.— Links, 9ct. Gold,
£1 ss. 15ct. Gold, £2 os.
Silver, 6s 6d.
No. E7707.—9ct. Gold,
Pearl and Turquoise
Lace Brooch, £1 Is.
Fine Diamond Marquise
Ring, £4O.
No. 241.
Diamond - set
Scarf Pin,
£3 17s 6d.
No. 240,—
15ct. Gold
and Pearl
Pin, £1 5s.
No. F 6128. —Silver-plated Toast
Back, 12s 6d.
No. F3s62.—Silver Cabinet Photo.
Frame, 16s 6d.
No. E7o72.—Silver
and Ivory Rattle,
13s 6d.
No. E 6444. Engraved
A 1 Silver-plated Napkin
Ring, 5s 6d.
Fine Opal and 15ct.
Gold Heart, £5 5s
Smaller, 755.
No. E 8499. -Purse and Card Case,
4 Silver Corners and Lock, £1 Is.
No. 359.—Silver-plated Breakfast
Cruet, 13s Cd.
Silver-plated
Spectacle
Case, 14s 6d.
The High Price of Land.
A party of Victorian farmers are negotiating for
soil on the Darling Downs (Queensland), the
reason why they desire to shift being that land
prices and land rents in their own district have
become so high that their work has ceased to be
reasonably profitable. They have struck against
the same phenomenon which has overtaken many
other countries—which is even overtaking some
parts of thinly-peopled N.S. Wales. Country land
is only valuable for what it will grow, and after
a time it becomes so valuable that people can’t
afford to grow things on it. The landlord,
whether local or absentee, wants so much rent
that there is no sufficient margin of sustenance
left. If the owner is also the proprietor, then the
outgoing proprietor wants so much money from
the incoming one that the land doesn’t give a
sufficient return for the latter’s labor, and reason-
able interest on the money he paid for the
property. If the State is owner and only
charges a moderate rent, then, unless the
State absolutely prohibits transfers, the old
lessee sells out to the new one, or sublets and
exacts a bonus or rent which leaves the new man
in the position of a sweated victim. The State,
of course, can do all the sweating itself, and thus
leave no room for the exaction of a bonus, but
that is hardly the remedy sought for. The policy
of buying up large estates and selling them on
easy terms to small farmers is a remedy for many
evils, but it doesn’t touch this evil except in a
purely temporary way. The small man is usually
a poor man at. the beginning of his career, and for
a time he sticks to his allotment and toils to
pay off the liability on it. And, if he is
the right kind of man, he is probably suc-
cessful, for, as a rule, the State has sold to
him on easy terms which greatly simplify his
task. And in later years, when settlement there-
abouts has grown dense, he or his descendants
will turn landlords, and let their property to
someone else on quite as grasping terms as could
have been demanded by the original big pre-
decessor .whom the State ejected. The policy of
subdividing the. land among a multitude of small
resident. proprietors is beneficial to the com-
munity in many ways, but it only diminishes —
it doesn’t wholly remedy—the rack-renting evil.
A land-tax is a most commendable idea, but while
it makes the landlord give a part of his overcharge
to the State, it doesn’t prevent the tenant being
overcharged. The idea that the State should fix
a fair rent is good also, but while it prevents the
exaction of an excessive rent, it doesn’t wholly
prevent the sale of the land to the cultivator at an
excessive price—which is the same evil over again
—for interest is just rent under another name.
There is a great opening for the man who will
invent a perfectly effective way of keeping down
land values in a rich community. The increase in
the value of land does the community no good
and much harm. It goes along with general pros-
perity, and for that reason it has been supposed to
be beneficial; but it isn’t a cause of prosperity—it
is merely one of the evils that accompany it.
Affluence is a good thing, and is often accom-
panied by gout, but gout doesn’t cause affluence.
Wanted—the address of a wealthy, well-governed
community, prosperous in agriculture, manu-
factures and commerce, where the cultivator is not
sweated by anybody, and yet doesn’t rise to be an
offensive bounder and sweat somebody else.
Wanted also, full information as to how that com-
munity arrived at that condition.
A letter from a farming district:
■R« the exodus of many desirable colonists co b Africa
and the general begging of the question by the leading
newspapers, the matter lies in a nutshell. No prospect
of ever making a decent livelihood offers itself in any line
of life here. Australia is drifting from bad to worse every
year. The land in Queensland, N.S.W., and Victoria is
being rapidly let to tenants. The drought must in the
future cause a heavy rise in value where rainfall is
certain. As an evidence, a farmer on the* thirds system
on one of the estates lately offered to Vic. Govt, at 2s. 6d.
an acre, got as high as 15 bags of oats per acre last season.
At present price of oats, squatter’s share equalled £3.
The same land is now being rushed at from 10s. to 12s. 6d. per
acre rent, and only for wheat-growing, squatter reserving
the right to graze the stubble. These estates were mostly
hopelessly insolvent, but in a few years the tenants will
have lifted the mortgage, and the chance of the lifetime
of this State has been lost. Everything is tending
towards the introduction of the English tenant system,
and landlordism, which has laid its blistering curse on
England, Ireland and Scotland. One squatter has al-
ready started the good old annual dinner to the tenants,
and the line of demarcation between them and the so-
called lower orders is as sharply drawn as the line betweep
squatter and tenant. Another landholder who has recently
let his land to the toilers, publicly announced his inten-
tion of running for Parliament, in the tenants’ interest of
course, as “socialistic legislation is ruining the State.”
In Victoria the Man with the Laugh and the Parliament
with the Jingo frenzy had a unique chance, but preferred
to spend thousands welcoming royalty, and decking out
warriors in gold braid and cocks’ plumes and sending them
away to help take other peoples’ land for another class of
exploiters. While they were yelling these and other
curses were coming home to roost.
4
Harry Morant and his sorry fate, told of
in “Bushman and Buccaneer” (now in its second
edition). The history of the Breaker and his
verses and letters, including photo, reproduction
of the Petersburg gaol MS. Price one shilling.
Wholesale from Edwards, Dunlop and Co. Retail
from all booksellers and Bulletin office (post
free Is. Id.)
Another moan in the Sydney morning
press:—
Senator Drake’s visit to N. S. Wales and Queensland has
further impressed upon him the great disadvantages
these States are under, owing to there being no loan
money available to carry out needed postal works. In
Sydney, he says, there is great overcrowding of the staff
at the G.P.0., owing to the inadequate room. Additions
made to the office some time ago by the State Govern-
ment cannot be completed until the Federal Parliament
votes £12,000 and in the meantime these additions are
practically useless. He does not know what Sydney will
do if the Loan Bill is not passed.
Inference: This great country of “illimitable
natural resources ” can’t by any possibility be ex-
pected to find £12,000 for a post-office without
floating a loan ! Is there any other country in the
world as helpless as the great Loan Press rep-
resents Australia to be.
“Yul.”: .Rethepurloining of The Bulletin
in transit through the post. A friend of mine was
in regular correspondence with a chum residing in
an out-lying part, and, the latter’s habitation
being solitary, the postman had to walk a few
miles extra —with a mountain-climb thrown in—
to deliver his mails. The consequence was that,
as often as not, the mails failed to arrive. Then
the victim struck the bright idea of advising his
correspondents to mail their stuff without postage,
with the result that the letters turned up with
unheard-of regularity, guarded as if registered,
for the sake of the postage-to-pay. Since institu-
tion of local postage oil newspapers, writer has
applied the remedy to the case of The B. (which
is posted to him far out-back) with complete
success.
“ A. C.H.”: Re chronic deafness (“ Gal vo ”
in recent Bulletin). I have an extremely deaf
relative, who, nevertheless, hears voices well
while a piano is being played. In fact, that is
the only time she has ever heard her babies cry.
As to comprehension of a remark before the
repetition asked for is given, this occurs with non-
deaf persons as well as with deaf, and seems to
show that the sub-consciousness can correctly re-
gister word-sounds without the over-conscious-
ness immediately receiving the word-meanings.
“ F.” writes :
‘. , „ . „ . „
The yarn that is going around as to Barton having paid
John Norton’s expenses at a Fitzroy (N.S. W.) bye-election,
hints at an interesting little bit of political history. At
the first referendum on the Federal Bill, John Norton,
then “anti-bill,” blackguarded Barton industriously, and
printed strange word-pictures of Toby going- on to plat-
forms “purple with food.” The Bill failed to get the
required number of votes, and a general election was
fought on the Federal issue, Barton opposing Reid in
King division. John Norton was a candidate for a
neighboring constituency (Fitzroy), and had to choose
between running under the Barton or the Reid flag. At
that time Norton was a power in Sydney politics, and in
every constituency there was a little band of Rosicrucians
(“ bottle-oh ” men et hoc genus) who would vote Norton
very time. Norton’s help, it was thought, would be useful
to Barton, and Barton’s useful to Norton, and a treaty of
peace was agreed to, John Norton giving his public
allegiance to Barton. Then Barton funked on his share
of the compact—saying a good word for Norton in
Fitzroy—and whilst there was no public breach between
would have been materially changed by Barton being
Premier of N.S.W. during the ultimate stage of the
Federal negotiations. There was no money-compact in
the matter? Barton wasn’t in a position to give any,
Norton to need any.
, -rt . , • • £ ,i
Ihat Russian writer whose opinion of the
German army has gone all round the world s
press, and who alleges that the German army is
a mere machine—and a bumptious and over-rated
machine at that—has at least, some precedent to
back up his opinion. The German army has
done great things under first-class commanders;
under bad commanders it has crumbled away as
few other European armies have done. It seems
to have a curiously-mechanical turn of mmd,
which makes it a splendid weapon when a master-
mind supplies the brains. But lacking that
master-mind it has no individual brain of its own ;
therefore, when badly-led it produces much worse
results than a much worse force might do. A few
commanders—Tilly, Wallenstein, Prince Eugene
(probably the greatest of them all), the Archduke
Charles, the Great Elector, E rede nek the Great,
even Blueher who had at least his indomitable
grit to recommend him—have led German armies
to the gates of perdition. And, on the other
hand, no country in Europe ever made a more
pitiable showing than Prussia after Jena, when
the dull old machine went to pieces and great,
sohd fortresses with garrisons 10,000 strong
would surrender to a few hundred French
cavalry the surrendering troops doing the most
intensely accurate goose-step to the last and
having every button in its proper place but not
hr.ng il An a r ay , d *T n , ■ fclun - k ’ led *! y
a general who can do all the thinking, is pretty
nearly invincible. An army that doesn't think,
led by a general that doesn’t think, is something
quite different. On the other hand, the army
that thinks for itself is apt to be the despair of. a.
good general, while it can turn guerilla and raise
Cain for its enemy with practically no general at
all.
Maoriland has abolished “tied” public-
houses by Act of Parliament, but it finds that the
tied pub. is still there. The brewer is still allowed
to own hotels, or hotel-leases, or to have a hold
over them as mortgagee in possession, or some-
thing of the sort. The man to whom he lets the
~ ~ , , -
P ub - ma - v sell the owner s beer, or anybody else s
beer he’s as free as air. But he is nominally
pledged to pay an immense rent, which is reduc-
ible to one-half, or even a quarter, if the tenant’s
conduct is “good.” The brewer is the sole judge
of good conduct, and he always interprets it as
,f. ~ , ’ „ -„_i„ r\ f *u„
selling my beer exclusively. Of course,
brewer might, as the next thing, be torbicicieir to
own, lease, or lend money to hotels, but m that
case he would probably get there through his
a „ en t, the nominal money-lender or the nominal
kndlord . The State Drink Monopoly seems to
~,>, , t ui
he the only absolutely reliable remedy.
a Sxrrlnev dailv •
* rom a ,
It appears that a member of the local force was in pur-
suit of a lad who, with another lad, had just previously
committed a theft from a shop in Queen-street, Woollahra.
After a stern chase, in which the young culprit held his
own, the constable, intending to frighten the lad, drew
his revolver and shot high into the air. The lad inline-
diately fell down, and was captured and lodged in the
lockup. So far as could be ascertained, a loaf of bread i<
all that was missing.
Another news item :
S£ country were equal to
emergency.
So it seems !
* of nn , current home stavino-
A stOry IS Current re tile Ilotne-Stayin<,
proclivities of a Vic. rich landlord-legislator who
owes his wealth to his deceased father. Some-
recently asked him why, with all his tons of
money, he hadn’t taken a notion to travel a bit
beyond the confines of Victoria, and began expa-
tiating on the wonders of London and New York
an( j frivolities of Paris. The latter theme
proved for a while peculiarly exciting to the un-
travelled M.L.C., but suddenly he interjected:
“ j old fellow, have you ever been in Sale?
My woid, thitfs the place for life?” Then his
m e n tor gave him up.
uatd
HAKKEJN GREY HAIR. .
Lockyers Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yei>s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.
“Veteran”: So N.S.W. is no longer to
} iave two corps of dry-land sailors. Why there
s bould be one is a mystery. To keep and pay
sa il ors for whom there are no ships is ridiculous,
What > s the use of pretending to keep a “naval
f orce ” which we can’t afford to send to sea;
w hile we, at the same time, pay the British
Admira i ty £126,000 a year for the up-keep of a
f HW obsolete cruisers which said Admiralty is not
even bound to retain m Australian waters if it
wants them anywhere else? A navy is, for the
I)rese nt, quite beyond Australia’s means, and this
, layingr a H t having a - nava i force » is si ’ ly pan .
dering to the folly of people who want an excuse
f or swaggering about in a uniform,
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Agents for N. S. Wales : Sayers,
All port and Potter, Sydney. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*


Take
REUTER’S LITTLE PILLS.
For all LIVER complaints.
dd
CASH OR TERMS.
THE MODEL 59
RED BIRD BICYCLE
Is Speedy, Strong and Simple in Mechanism.
Call and see the newly-arrived Roadster and Racer Patterns.
GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King 1 Street, Sydney.
Hardy’s
Absolutely Pure;
Tintara Wines
Fully Matured; 700 Medals, etc.
Adelaide:
CURRIE STREET
Melbourne:
COLLINS STREET
Sydney:
GROSVENOR STREET
Patience has been rewarded at Mitchellstown,
Vic., where one Ponting, a local cocky, has just cut a
reef that scores of experienced mining men have been
searching for for over 18 years. The reef is called the
Wallaby, cocky having discovered the outcrop when deal-
ing with a “wally” that his dogs had pulled down.
Prospects are making mouths water all over the place,
and the rush has set in. The maddest man in all Goul-
burn Valley is the one whose year-old cutting stopped
just about a foot short of the lode ! There have been
even nearer things. At Mt. Moliagul, 30 years ago, a
sneeze in a deserted tunnel brought down a flake of reef
that exposed the golden stone.
« * * *
The two recent attempts to revivify Lady Loch,
Coolgardie having ignominiously failed through the
wrong medicine having been applied, a fresh pill has been
prepared. A new co. is to be launched with 299,993
shares of ss. each with a 2s. assessment.. The New
Century Trust is backing this scheme. Mine never was
and never will be any good for a big co. ; it might pay a
good co-operative party.
• * »
The long-threatened absorption of Hannan’s
Oroya by Hannan’s Brown Hill (W.A.) (for that is what
the amalgamation virtually means) was agreed to unani-
mously by shareholders of both co.’s. To show market
appreciation of the combine, Oroya shares dropped Bs., or
10 per cent., on meeting being convened, and as much
more on amalgamation being carried. Sooner or later
Associated Northern, and possibly Associated, which both
intervene between sections of the properties of the new
combine, will also be absorbed, as Algernon Moreing is
fairly on the warpath. To date Brown Hill has produced
340,5000 z. from 170,300 tons, and Oroya 32,8000 z. from
67,100 tons. The former co. has worked out the rich
chute while the latter has it intact.
Latest published return from Peak Hill (W.A.)
reads 31690 z. from 4843 tons. More than half comes from
the accumulated rich tailings, which are being exhausted
at the rate of nearly 9000 tons a month. Darlington Simp-
son, who recently visited the mine, professes to be horribly
shocked at the falling-off . He writes : “It becomes
difficult for one to explain the marvellous change that has
occurred in, I may say, almost everything since my last
visits in 1898-99.” It might not be so difficult to explain
the marvellous cessation of divs. after these visits, and
the drop in the shares from £6 to about par, but it would
not be an easy matter to demonstrate that the shares are
worth even par.
• * * *
Test crushing of 140 tons, from Golden Link’s
Eclipse lease, Kalgoorlie, yielded 150 oz. smelted gold.
Ore was taken from the extreme south-east corner of the
property, where the lode is split into two branches by a
fault. An engine-driver, named Berry, who long knew of
this patch, and had pitched his camp on the outcrop to
shepherd it, recently gave away the show out of pique, as
another miner, who had been granted a tribute, while
Berry was refused one, was warm on the scent. Result ■
Berry was told to remove his camp, and the fossicker’s
tribute was promptly annulled. As lode is underlying
east and chute dipping south into block held by Venture
Corporation, value to Golden Link co. is apparently of
smallest.
* * * *
Windsor Consols, Mt. Magnet (W.A.), like most
of Frank Gardner’s flotations, is to be wound up, as Zeb.
Lane is satisfied the co. has no prospects. In floating
co. 2J years ago Lane asserted that 9000 tons, containing
13,0000 z., were in sight, but 20-head battery knocked
bottom out of mine after treating 3611 tons for 9220 z.
» • * *
Manager Isles, of South Kalgurli (W.A.), once
estimated that there would be £5OOO a month profit from
the plant, but he has now reduced this to a paltry £2200.
This means that working expenses on 2700 tons of ounce
ore are £2 15s. per ton. He suggests adding further fur-
naces, but, unless they are suspended from a balloon, it is
hard to say where they are to be placed.
• * * *
Great Boulder and Ivanhoe (W.A.) were paying
unskilled labor Is. Bd. a shift less than other Kalgoorlie
mines, and the Stokers’ Association ordered them to level
up their rates. Managers combined and decided to level
down to Boulder-Ivanhoe rates. Case to come before
Arbitration Court.
» * * •
The crosscut'from the bottom level on Oroya’s
(W.A.) north block is out 90ft. without locating the rich
chute, and holders are in despair. That the chute will be
cut before long there seems little doubt, and the further
east it is the better for shareholders. The management
seems to be at fault for its dilatoriness in pushing
on explorations; had this chute been properly opened
up, the amalgamation would probably have been frus-
trated.
* * • •
Kaufmann and Rothschild, who held a 12
months’ option on Fred. Merton’s 100,000 shares in Mer-
ton’s Reward, are said to have closed the bargain and
paid over the cash. With the £lO,OOO previously paid,
and the gold won, Merton has made a punch of £200,000
out of his find. Not so long ago, he was counterjumping
for Sam. Hordern at £2 a week, and knew naught ahont
gold-mining.
« * * *
Some Vic. mining figures: Total gold to end of
'Ol, 65,136,1740 z. (£260,489,201) ; heaviest year’s output,
3,053,7440 z., in ’56; lightest, 576,3990 z., in ’9l ; average
of stone treated in ’Ol, Bdwt. 16gr. (9dwt. 23gr. in ’92) ;
total stone milled to end of ’Ol, 35,703,933 tons for
17,979,6640 z. ; tailings cyanided, 4,293,532 tons for
43,5690 z. Co.’s paying divs. in ’Ol, 44. South New Moon
paid £38,400, on a paid-up capital of £14,670, from
15.6dwt. stone ; Glenfine South, £35,875. New Moon paid
£22,200 on 6.4dwt. stone. Of the £427,897 Bendigo dis-
tributed £184,670 and Ballarat £101,650. At the end
of ’Ol eight shafts, all at Bendigo, were deeper than
3000 ft.; deepest, Victoria Quartz, 3750 ft. Outside Bendigo,
South Star (Ballarat), 2520 ft. ; North Long Tunnel (Wal-
halla), 2516 ft. In the last 20 years 790 miners have been
killed ; average per year, 39J : last year, 28. Total em-
ployed, 27,387 (lowest, 23,763, in ’92 ; highest in the last 15
years, 32,368, in ’96). Of 1295 men killed in 28 years 550
have been through falls of rock, &c., underground, 171
through falling down shafts, 99 through explosions, and
71 through falls of material down shafts. Flooding of
mines has killed 36.
• * * •
Vic. miners are snorting over the new Gold-
Buyers’ Act, which forces every man selling gold or
amalgam to fill in an imposing blue document giving no
end of details. There are about a score of questions to
be answered, and a declaration to be sworn, before a
fossicker can sell a few grains of gold. As a means of
detecting gold-stealers the documents aren’t worth their
weight in dead flies—the assumption that the man who
would steal gold would be above making a false declara-
tion being a cheerful mistake of the official mind ; but as
an instrument for driving many ancient and illiterate
fossickers to lunacy they are a brilliant success.
* » « *
English mining writer Curie, who so shocked
Melb. Argus with his criticism of Vic. systems of mining,
that it cut him short after his introductory article
appeared, has published another edition of his “ Gold-
fields of the World.” The new vol. contains the complete
criticism which the Argus declined to publish. There is
really not much in it. Curie seems to have a bee in his
bonnet re the dissection of working costs. It is true that
no Vic. co. employs a certificated accountant with a tribe
of clerks to dance attendance on him. The manager has
to act as his own tally-clerk and accountant, and be
satisfied with a smaller screw than a man of figures
would be content with. But the most elaborate tabulated
statement of costs would not be more convincing as to
results than the simple fact that in proportion to gold
won Victorian co’s. on an average return a higher rate of
profit than is shown in any other part of the world.
Curie is also strong on the necessity for an assay-plan of
a mine. Perhaps it was the absence of a correct assay-
plan which was responsible for the opinion which he ex-
pressed in his first book that the Associated (W.A.) was
the greatest mine in the world. The average assay-plan
is of no more value as a guide to the true inwardness of
things than the average written report—one can be
cooked and manipulated as readily as the other.
• • * •
■■ A novel legal point has been raised in connection
with the cyanide process. In England the Macarthur-
Forrest patents were held valid, but the courts of the
S’African Republic decided otherwise, and the mining
co.’s were freed from the payment of royalties. The
question now is : Will the English decision hold good in
the new Crown colony as applied to mines which were
“ located ” under the laws of the Republic ?
• * * •
A regular game of “Washington Post” has
been inaugurated by the M. : =ter of Mines for W.A. for
the mine-inspectors of the fielus. With the exception of
Jenkvn, of N.E. Coolgardie, all the inspectors swap
places. This step is approved by all unprejudiced per-
sons, as most of the inspectors have become too chummy
with the managers, and their zeal has waned.
• * * •
George Adams, for his Hobart brewery (how
will “ Adams’ Ale ” look on the bottles), has secured as
his brewer Mr. O. H. Hedberg, once of the famous Cas-
cade Brewery and more recently Tasmanian State
Inspector of Distilleries; and Mr. Eric Hedberg as his
maltster.
( Continued on page 34.)
Constipation.
This is a trouble leading to various derange-
ments of the system. It is like stuffing up the
sewers of a city, and keeping all the filth in them
till they are filled with poison and corruption.
The blood becomes diseased, and is carried to
all parts of the body, producing neuralgia,
rhuematism, disturbs the heart and nervous
system ; and, if continued, is liable to produce
inflammation of the bowels, liver and kidneys.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills should be taken
regularly to remove this trouble, till the bowels
move daily and are restored to healthy action.
A persevering use of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills will effectually cure constipation, and all
of its attendant evils. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills purify the blood, and make it rich and red.
They are put up in amber bottles with the full
name blown thereon, and sold throughout Aus-
tralasia.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The Steeplechase at Ballarat Miners’ Race-
course next Friday is causing more than usual interest to be
taken in the meeting. The club has been exceptionally
fortunate in attracting the splendid entry of ‘ a baker’s
dozen ’ for the race. The fences are not extra high, but
one or two of them are termed awkward—decidedly
‘ tricky ’ —so that should this large number of horses start
a few spills may naturally be expected.” (Par in Ballarat
Courier and Ballarat Star, July 22nd).
A neat little swindle went adrift lately on a
northern racecourse. Two ponies—A and B—were
reckoned certs, for a race. Owners foregathered and
.arranged that A should win, carrying underweight, while
B should run second, and, of course, gather in stakes and
bets on A failing to scale. The gentle public was sooled
on to A, and at the last moment a tidy commission was
worked for B at an outside price. All came off as
arranged, but, while the nags were weighing in, some
greedy individuals offered to lay 10 to 1 the winner
wouldn’t get the race ; and this haste to grab the last
Eossible copper gave the show away. The owner of third
orse lodged his protest and demanded “ No race,” while
the deluded punters yelled murder. Last of all, the
committeemen—possibly having backed A themselves-
took a firm grasp of the situation, gave the race to the
under-weighted winner, and, presumably, went out to
collect their own bets.
* • • ♦
Winner (Col. Shillinski) of Caulfield Grand
National Hurdles, Saturday, put up a weight-carrying
record for the race; he humped 12.5. Prior best was The
Agent’s 12.1, 17 years ago. Present owner of Colonel
Shillinski bought him for £5OO, and a few days later
gathered in a £5OO stake with him. Latest win means an
additional £9OO.
« * •
Extent to which horse-racing is carried on in
and around Sydney may be gathered from the fact that
something in excess of £50,000 has been disbursed in prize
money during the past season, aud £24,770 of this through
A.J.O. officials’ hands. Tatts. Club gave £3OOO, S.T.C.
£2llO, and City Tatts. £9OO, so beyond £30,000 was
won at Randwick alone. Rosehill Club stakes accumu-
lated £4400, Canterbury Park and Moorefield £3600 each,
and Warwick Farm £2700. Add to this Hawkesbury
Club’s t'looo and perhaps £20,000 provided by unregis-
tered pony clubs and there’s a grand total of somewhere
near £70,000. Parlous period the country has passed and
is passing through doesn’t yet seem to have been felt in
turfdom.
• * * *
Broken Hill now makes but one try to get
metrop. horses up there ; it offers three meetings, run at
week-intervals by three friendly clubs, with a fourth on
the S.A. side of the border where the dusty miner can
get a taste of the tote. As a matter of fact, though, the
dusty miner isn’t keen on racing ..anyway at Broken Hill;
his chances of going to races are so few that when they do
come he seems to have forgotten how to take them, and
so for the size of the place the attendances are poor. The
Sailor, last year’s Silver City Cup winner, did it again ;
and Quando'ng, just in from the mulga, took back the
B.H. Cup (200 sovs.) and what the books would lay at 20
to 1.
# * • *
J. E. Burgess, now waiting trial for the opal
mail robbery between White Cliffs and Broken Hill, is
one of the oldest and best-known racing men in the Far
West. They “ took ” him just before the annual carnival
at Broken Hill—escorted him across to White Cliffs the
day before the L.V. meeting, and committed him the day
before the B.H. J.C. meeting a week afterwards. Burgess
had two horses entered for the bigger things, Garnet and
Precaution ; but his luck was dead out on the course, as
elsewhere—he won a second and two thirds with Pre-
caution, and Garnet, with a good lead in the B.H. Cup,
broke a blood-vessel. Burgess ran horses at the first
meeting ever held at Broken Hill, and has had something
going in his name most of the time since.
• » • *
Well-performed-up-country nag Winoline won
her second race at Moorefield (Sydney) Monday this week,
humping top weight, and shaping promisingly. She is a
big, finely-formed mare by Blairgowrie from Winnie by
Warlike, who first saw light in the Richmond River
district, and figured in Sydney as a speedy traveller over
short stretches. Winoline has at different times annexed
Forbes, Albury, and Cootamundra Cups.
* * * *
Among prads already in demand for coming
Melbourne Cup (months away yet) by fatuous punters is
Mr. W. T. Jones’ 1300 guinea purchase, Strata Florida, by
Grafton from Lady Trenton, by Trenton from Black Swan,
by Yattendon. There’s nothing in his form as compared
with that of other colts to justify the move. Early
present year Brakpan gave Strata Florida a stone and
gibs. and won while latter could only finish third, with
a
Chatter, conceding him 131b5., second ; wherefore Strate
Florida must come on a heap before he can have any hop e
with Brakpan, and the public know nothing to indicat
that that big improvement has been made. Yet Strata
Florida may develop into a top notcher —if looks count
for anything he certainly will.
* • • •
A new dodge came to light at a meeting of
Queensland Tattersall’s Club, at Sandgate, t’other day,
when the officials accidentally found that some brilliant
mind had been at work on the scales in the weighing-
room. A string had been attached to the lever of the
scales and taken down below the floor, where a piece of
lead was affixed to keep it taut. From this, a length of
twine led to the outside world. On being followed to the
end. it was found to terminate at a fence, some distance
away. Here, apparently, the bright inventor had stood,
and, bj- hauling on the string, had altered the weights
materially of the jocks at the weighing-in. How long had
that ingenious device been in operation ?
» • • *
Recent raids on Sydney shop Mo. bore little
fruit, for most cases were upset on technicalities, the out-
come of ignorance in laying charges and wording informa-
tion. Full Court, t’other day, dealt with several and
decided against the police in each instance, allowing costs
to all but one, and then only because the points were not
taken in the lower court. Time the duty of prosecution
was placed with someone sufficiently learned in the law
to save this farce and expense.
* * *
The famous St. Albans stud farm and racing
establishment of the late W. R. Wilson has been con-
verted into a model dairy farm by the present owner, Mr.
R. Govett. The moo-cow roams where the thoroughbred
was wont to scamper, and now St. Albans reckons it has
won a good race when it gets the best market odds for its
milk and butter.
• • •
Progress of trotting in M.L. is evidenced by the
fact that stakes given during the past season were £l6OO
richer than previous year, while tote revenue showed an
excess of £20,000.
• • * •
Some bike and motor-car gossip : While he was
a fat and middle-aged P. of W., King Ned always had a
desire to do something on the bike, but was too short-
winded, and a poor devil of a Prince of Wales has no time
to train. He was rapidly becoming a soured old man
when the motor-car irrupted. Ned clutched at it
frenziedly, and proceeded to fill the beautiful English lanes
with odors of petrol and gasoline ; now, he has such a fleet
of automobiles that a new household dignitary has been
appointed, with a most gorgeous uniform, under the title
of “ Master of the King’s Motor-cars.” ... In Europe,
just now, there is a craze for light bicycles. Cor-
rect thing is aluminium, but the price makes
it a rare luxury. Machines over 281 b. are a drug in the
market, and the coming season’s casualty-list will be
heavy, when thousands of 15st. and 18st. men start road-
racing on machines which, all on, weigh no more than
321 b. Even the best steel and rubber can only stand a
certain strain. The English manufacturers have got a
big start of the Yankees with the duplex-gear machines.
The Yanks were so carried away with the free-wheel suc-
cess that the multiple-gear was ignored. With the
Yankee free-wheel, a man can coast in great comfort, but he
has to climb rises with the same gear that he floats along
the levels, and, if you want to appreciate the advantages
of a duplex-gear, just try to walk up a hill with the same
stride you get over the level street with. The new hub
will make comparatively little addition to the cost.
• * * •
They were illuminating at Temuka (M.L.) in
honor of the King’s illness, and the town being largely
composed of inflammable timber buildings, it was decided
by the city fathers to light up in a desert place, locally
spoken of as “ the Hills,” outside the township. While
the show was in full blast, a cyclist came to the top of
the ridge and looked down on the spectacle of rockets
and catherine-wheels. At the same moment he dis-
covered that sparks from the show had set his coat on
fire. While he grabbed at it to try and smother the fire
something went wrong with his free wheel, and the
machine promptly bolted with him, and as the last rocket
vanished in a spray of stars, the succeeding dark-
ness was lit up by a shrieking cyclist, who shot down
the slope on to the level ground with his coat-tail, which
streamed out on the wind behind him, a sheet of flame.
The audience cheered wildly, and marvelled at the stage-
management of the spectacle. Presently they found that
the apparition wasn’t part of the show, and extinguished
him with boiling tea from the refreshment booth. Then
the cyclist explained things—among other things that,
in his tail-pocket, there had been burnt a couple of
pound-notes, with which he had intended to shout for
the crowd. Just here the audience ceased to take any
interest in him, and faded quietly away before he had
time to propose that a collection should be taken up.
* * * •
Cyclists will learn with interest that a big
development in cycle tyre construction is promised by
the Dunlop Tyre Co. early in August. The big company
has secured the Australasian rights of a new process of
tyre manufacturing that will mean much to wheelmen,
in fact will almost result in a clearance of all cover
troubles. The principle of the Dunlop tyre attachment
is adhered to, but the new cover will be lighter, faster
and yet more durable than the existing one, and, despite
the new improvements, will be considerably cheaper.*
• * * *
Trumper’s pair of centuries against Essex must
have been almost the best batting achievement ever
recorded in first-class cricket. It was not as though the
other fellows had helped him to collar the bowling.
Sixteen wickets fell for 485 runs. Trumper’s contributions
were 109 and 119, whilst the next best were Hill 59 (2nd
innings) and Noble 33 not out (Ist innings). Thirteen of
the wickets that fell were accountable for 125 runs only,
an average of less than 10 runs per wicket. With
Trumper out of the way the bowling would have looked
pretty deadly. Two of the Essex trundlers—veteran
Mead and H. Young—were in the All England lot that
met Darling’s team three years ago, Young being then
regarded as the coming man. The match ended in a
draw.
On the other side, conspicuously good perform-
ances in the Essex match were M'Gahey with 72 and 59,
and Perrin with 45 and 58 (not out), M'Gahey, who also
put a couple of good wickets to his credit as a bowler, is
evidently a much better cricketer than he showed himself
in this country last summer. His average for three
innings against Australia on the Essex ground is 55.
Perrin has done better than that, and if batsmen were
chosen for their proven pluck and consistency of “ form”
against the terror-striking visitors Perrin would play for
All England in the final Test. One man of his type,
notorious for bucking-up when the occasion puts a
special strain upon the nerves, is worth a couple of
Ranjitsinjhis. The dark gentleman, at any rate, has
fairly earned the distinction of being carefully omitted
from the next A.E. team. His four Test innings this
season (he couldn’t play in the third match) have pro-
duced 13, 0, 2 and 4, yet he stands high on the batting
list for county matches.
* * *
Vic. Trumper’s two centuries against Essex
made his eighth time of netting three figures this tour,
and excels anything previously done by an Australian in
a first-class match. Not at any time, even in the history
of Anglo-Australian or inter-State cricket, has a rep. of
any portion of this continent accumulated centuries in
both innings of any one match. This brings Trumper
into line with (among others) W. G. Grace, R. E. Foster,
Stoddart, Ranjitsinhji, Fry, Maclaren, Tyldesley, Storer,
Brann, Poore, W. L. Foster, Jessop, Bosanquet, Chinnery,
M'Gahey and Carpenter. Grace and R. E. Foster accom-
plished the feat thrice, and Fry and Tyldesley twice. A
hundred in each innings of a match other than first-class
has been comparatively common, and Deane, Alex. Ban-
nerman, Eady and Burn have such achievements to their
credit. It is interesting, also, that the absolute hundred
has been obtained seven times. Up to meeting Essex,
Trumper had accumulated centuries in four successive
innings. Worth mentioning here, too, that Miss R.
Dean, of Sydney, once hit up two separate hundreds in a
ladies’ match.
The success of Relf at the outset of the Aus-
tralian innings against Sussex was just another illustra-
tion of the truth that a new second-rate bowler can beat
first-rate batsmen by the mere novelty of his manner of
attack. The man, not the ball, takes them down until
they are familiar with his delivery. Relf got the first four
wickets when the Australian total was 90 only. After
that hundreds of runs were made for the loss of one
wicket—Hopkins getting run out. The new bowler had
lost his character for being dangerous.
• * * *
Dull and threatening without rain at Brighton
during Australian-Sussex match last week. Toss favored
visiting side, who opened proceedings, and closed at 5 for
580, Noble making 284 and Armstrong (n. 0.) 172. Sussex
hit up 185 ; highest scores being 58 and 39 ; and, following
on, they had lost 1 for 130 when the match was declared
drawn. Peculiarly enough, the ’99 team against Sussex
closed its first innings, but with more runs to the good,
there were 4 down for 624. Sussex made 414 and 143 ;
then Trumper’s quota towards the general whole of his
side was 300 (n. 0.) : Worrall subscribed 128, Gregory 73,
and Darling 56 (n. 0.).
* * « •
Noble’s 284, achieved in the Sussex match, ranks
third among highest scores made in Anglo-Australian
cricket. Trumper’s 300 (n. 0.) against the same county in
’99 is ahead of all others, while Murdoch’s 286 (n. 0.), also
opposed to Sussex, is the second on the list; latter was
made in ’B2, and formed part of 643 which resulted in
Sussex’s vanquishment by an innings and 335 runs. Then,
as with Noble now, Murdoch’s was the highest score in
English cricket for that season. Noble has livened up
considerably with the bat lately, but seems to have fallen
off correspondingly in bowling.
* * * V
Apropos Trumble’s 100th wicket in test-matches.
Only man to accomplish this previously was C. T. B.
Turner. Trumble first played against England 12 years
since at Lords. A comparison of Turner’s, Spofforth’s
and Trumble’s figures show that the first-named was
the most difficult; his record gives 101 wickets for 1681
runs—an average of 16 64.
• * * *
In a cricket-match this season between Glaston-
bury and Langport (Eng.) the latter scored nil. Has
such a thing ever occurred in Australia ?
* ♦ * *
Football is immensely popular in Melbourne
again. At Brunswick, t’other day, after the match
Brunswick v. Prahran, the umpire was rushed by a homi-
cidal crowd, and the police who went to the rescue were
freely belted with rocks. The free fight lasted while the
police were getting the umpire* from the ground to the
tram, and the constables batoned the crowd with cheerful
indiscrimination. Says one conspicuous Melb. umpire :
“I don’t mind a mauling once in a way. When the
crowd’s bloodthirsty it shows they are taking an interest
in the game. It’ll be a bad look-out for football when the
crowd don’t want to kill an umpire now’n agen.”
* * • *
Obit. Sydney yachting enthusiast, Dr. Milford,
ordering on 70 years old. His first successes were with
the Young Jack, years ago ; then he owned the Doris,
and sailed her from Sydney to Melbourne, where she com-
peted more or less successfully. Subsequently the Sao
was built for him, then the Isea. Latterly the doc. was
content to cruise about Sydney Harbour in a 14-footer.
Valvular disease of the heart was the immediate cause of
death. The deceased gentleman was a son of Mr. Justice
Milford, whilom N.S.W. Chief Judge in Equity.
* # * •
Cabled that ’Ome ex-bike premier, M. A. Hol-
bein, unsuccessfully essayed the Channel swim last week,
and during 12£ "hours covered 39 miles. Same
man tried the same thing August last year, taking the
water at Calais, and getting within five miles of the Eng-
lish side when his friends hauled him out verging on
blindness. Though then in the sea 12} hours, he was
physically fit to complete the task. Among Holbein’s
best swims were 46 miles in the Solent, and to and from
Blackwall and Gravesend, which called for 12| hours
swimming.
* • «
Recent print of Sydney Sportsman, talking
“Coursing Reform,” suggests handicapping dogs to bring
them nearer each other. Yet coursing is among the
oldest sports known. Surely there’s some deep-down
joke here?
THE WARBLE OF IKEY MO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
11 Roll up, you toffs as dearly loves the Sport of Kings,
Roll up I and patronise the Turf, an’ see what Fortune
brings ;
There’s thirteen ’orses on the card for this ’ere steeple-
chase,
And maybe some of them wot starts will perish in the
race.
‘ The timber ain’t so extra ’igh, but still, its ’igh enough,
A haccident might ’appen to the smartest bit o’ stuff,
For some of them there obstacles are just the sort, yersee,
To bring the favorite to grief and do the trick for Me.
“ Wif thirteen crowding in the field there’s bound to be a
show
For two to bump when up they jump, then down the
blankers go,
An’ three or four falls over them, a rorty, all-round
smash;
Then, if your rough outsider wins, yer taps me for the
cash.
“There’s nothing like a steeplechase to keep yer in
suspense ;
The safest jumper in the land may blunder at a fence
And kill his jockey on the spot; it’s very sad, of course,
Especially for blokes wot’s put their quids upon the
’orse.
" You back your fancies on their “ form,” and when
they’re in the air
I follows them with hopeful eyes, and offers up a prayer—
Ah ! you may larf; I’ve known the time when earnestly
I’ve prayed
That everything would fall except the one I ’adn’t laid.
“ And you don’t mind if all the rest get seriously ’urt,
Provided you can thank your stars you pick’d the
bloomin’ cert.
In fact, we’re Sports ; we play the game for shillings,
pounds, and pence—
Roll up, and give your luck a chance to clear the tricky
fence.”
The tricky fence provides the spills Ike “ natchrally
expecks,”
Men gather near to hear the crack of breaking legs, or
necks,
And faces blanch, whilst others beam, and bloodshot eye-
balls shine
When comes the cry, “There’s something down—thank
Gawd 1 it isn’t mine I ”
F.


Frozen Fish
has the same FRESH*
NESS and DELICACY
of FLAVOR as when
newly* caught*
V 0
It can be sent with safety during the winter
months to almost any far distant railway
■ station in the State. — =
SMOKED FISH (our own curing) forwarded
by Parcels Post to back*country districts
Please send for Catalogue of
il\e different Kinds and prices
IJ.S. Wo FresH Food Ice Co. Ltd.
Head Office and Refrigerating' Works, Harbour St., Sydney
GOOD RIGHT THROUGH..
I^assey-Harris bicycles
Are reliable in every part, run easy, and always look well.
Call and inspect our stock of these justly Famous Mounts: Cash or Terms.
Sportiog ReqOisit^s
Patrons of Sporting Clubs and Officials will do well to visit
our Sports Department. Every kind of Pastime catered for.
Massey-Harris Depot: 357 Georye Street, Sydney •
Branches—Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth and Wellington, N.Z.
Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER
YOU GET THE BEST VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY WHEN YOU
BUY A
REMINGTON
Double-Barrel .
Hammerless Gun
Thoroughly Guaranteed.
Kept in stock by the Largest Gun Stores in Melbourne and Sydney,
Remingrton Arms Company
Hkad Office: 315 BROADWAY, NEW YORK, U.S.A.
REMINGTON GUNS, £5 ios. to £ie
REMINGTON RIFLES, 23/6 post free
McLEAN BROS. & RICE, Ltd., 107 Elizabeth-St., Melbourne.
SAN DOW’S
Patent Spring-Grip Dumb-Bells.
The Greatest Invention of the
Age for producing Perfect
Health and Strength.
Increased and Proportionate
Development. Marvellous
Results.
A pleasure to use, and adapted to the requirements of both sexes, of all age
BEFORE
USING
Chart enclosed with each Set.
Sandow’s Embrocation.
THE BEST IN THE MARKET.
Invaluable to Cyclists, Cricketers, Footballers, Golfers,
Runners, Rowers, and others.
xcv
S. HOFFNUNG & CO., Limited, Sydney and Brisbane,
Quotations Supplied to the Trade SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA.
A NIB,
A BOTTLE OF INK,
A SHEET OF PAPER and
A PEN CARBON BOOK
makes a complete outfit with
which any
MAN,
WOMAN c a
CHILD
can write a letter, and at the same
time make an exact copy without
leaving the slightest sign of copy-
ing on the original.
sr
s/s
%
ing on the original. -
It keeps a duplicate of bills you send out, of orders, receipts, bank checks. It leaves no vague
uncertain mark, but a tracing that is often clearer than the original.
From its testimony there can be no appeal. It will save any house or family much money by its
indisputable record.
There is no man or woman, professional or not, who would not at some time or other find
THE PEN CARBON LETTER BOOK
A True and Valued Friend.
For fullest particulars, price, etc., write to the sole £
Agents for Australasia.: E. RICH & CO. LTD., sydnev Brisbane
'Sv
u
>»YI
CHOICE TIPS
From the Farms of South
Africa.
Black, White or Cream—
10/-
THE
BUNCH.
Post Free.
These Feathers cannot be bought
for twice the money in any other
house.
Write Now. Send Postal Notes.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Bourke and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.
Mention The Bulletin.
SHBRPSHOOTIMg
xcvcv
For Sport and War.
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARK!
ISO Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/- nbtt. ;
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published,
IP you wish to get good work and value
you should purchase W. W. GREENER'S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
' C. W. BUCKLAND,
317/Collins Street, Melbourne.
(Greener’s Representative).
The British empire spends about
£82,000,000 a year on armaments; Russian empire,
.£42,000,000'; France, £38,000,000; German empire,
£32,000,000. Yet Britain has quite a fixed im-
pression that it is the other fellow who has the
bloated war-gear !
Dear Bulletin, — Be the “ Lion’s Wink ”
(illustration, 8., 19/7/’02): The late Queen Vic-
toria always strenuously denied having made that
statement about the Bible and England's great-
ness to the alleged African chief. The thing was
a parsonical fabrication. —I.A.C.
OPEN SESAME.— Hunyadi Janos Water is
the “open sesame” of the human organism.
Speedy, sure, and gentle, it fulfils every indication
in health and disease. It is a therapeutical
arsenal in itself. Indispensable to millions of
human beings all over the world.*
There’s a fine lesson for the un-Australian
patriots who heard John Bull’s call to S’Africa, in
the story of the Drayton Grange, now on Aus-
tralian coast. This “ converted cargo boat ” was
despatched from Durban with 2000 men aboard.
Measles had then appeared among the men, but
nevertheless she was rushed away. There was
one small medicine-chest aboard, and “a request
for further medical stores was grudgingly acceded
to.” From the first at least 400 men had to sleep
out on deck--—though the weather was bitterly
cold. When measles began to rage, and scores of
men fell sick of pleurisy and pneumonia, it was
impossible to secure hospital accommodation. To
quote Sydney Telegraph :
From end to end of the ship men, many of them worn
with privations and fatigue, are berthed under the most
insanitary conditions. On one troop deck alone 1500 men
eat and live. By night they sleep as best they can. On
the lower troop deck the balance are stowed. They have
little ventilation in fine weather; none in bad. So dense
is the crowding that many are unable to find room to
swing their hammocks, and perforce sleep on the mess
tables, while the still more unfortunate spread their
blankets on the befouled decks. . . . The men are unable
to take exercise or fresh air. Parades are .impossible,
except at the tables, where the men live and sleep, and
discipline is necessarily lax. . . . The troop hospital, with
accommodation for 40, was soon filled, and a temporary
hospital was established on the main troop deck, a space
amidships being divided off with canvas. Twenty-four
hours later that was full, and bunks were built in the
officers’ smoking-room, and filled as fast as they were
finished. The orderly-room came next, a wooden erection
measuring 15ft. by sft. by 7ft. high. In this 16 patients
were stacked, giving an average of 35 cubic feet of space
for each. To put another one there was impossible, and
the quarters occupied by troops were requisitioned.
Friction followed. The men, foreseeing further crowding,
declined at first to move. An appeal to them on behalf
of the sick men, however, was sufficient to move them,
and yet another hospital was established and filled.
And thus the pest-ship came into Australian
waters.
It looked at first as though the Aust. XI.
were going to be knocked fl t by the unusually
cold English Spring plus influenza. But, as
usual, the Boys have proved themselves equal to
any foe, as they always will so long as they remain
faithful to their old allj r , D.C.L. Whisky—taken
medicinally. A judicious appeal to D.C.L. at the
right moment, and in accurate quantum, gives the
strength of nerve which assures victory. The
Whisky of the Wise ; likewise the Triumph of
the Brave.*
The death, at the age of 87, of Win.
Hanson, first N.S.W. Govt. Printer under
Responsible Govt., recalls the woes of Geo. Howe,
the printer who first brought out the Sydney
Gazette in 1803. Sometimes he had to use paper
bags for printing his paper, and at others bnina
paper, which could only be printed on one side,
while arrears of subscriptions were only collected
with difficulty after the Governor had issued a
threatening proclamation.
Toni Bent, in his revived character of
Minister of Vic. Railways, justifies his action in
“shutting up” the sec. of the Engined rivers
Association who had called upon him with a depu-
tation. The sec. was disrespectful, says the auto-
crat. “ There is a proper method of addressing a
Minister, no matter who he is.” Bent apparently
recognises that a deputation of engine-drivers
would naturally be indisposed.to regard Bent with
the awe due to his official position, and yet he is
the only Minister of Railways who ever was an
ex-Speaker of the Leg. Assembly.
The unfortunate shooting of the poor
itinerant chair-mender, Joseph Heaps, recalls
another instance of mistaken zeal. During the
Kelly gang scare Father Scan 1 an was mistaken for
Dan Kelly and shot at a public-house in Urana.
The priest mistook the police and civilians for
burglars, or something, drew his. revolver,, and
was shot dead. His grave railing is. still pointed
out in Wangaratta (Vic.) cemetery, in a neglected
corner of which is also buried the headless body of
bushranger Morgan, shot at Peechelba Station on
the Ovens in the early sixties.
The Bulletin Stoky Book (price ss.
post-free from The Bulletin office) has been
everywhere hailed as by-far the best book of
Australian stories and sketches yet published.
All the best-known Australian writers, for the
last ten years, are represented; and, both for
interest and literary value, the selection is un-
surpassed in this country.*
I7OE the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
- ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “Ellis’ Kin? Street Coffee Palace,” "*1
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor — GKO. IF. ELLIS.
'm, &
m
mt
y
j
$
&
4* Yh
For
Quality^
Workmanship and Prlco
Our
Dunlop
* Rubber
* Goods
are unequalled in Australia.
Mine Managers, Engineers,
and all users of Rubber goods A
are invited to send for prices I
and samples.
Price List on application.
Quality the Highest.
Price the Lowest.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of /•Ustralia, 108 Flinders Street,, Melbourne.
150 Clarence Street, Sydney. 69 Franklin Street, Adela'de.
28 Adelaide Street, Brisbane. 64 Barrack Street, Perth.
128 Lichfield Street, Christchurch, N.Z.


66
OO
5) G> 0 O O
Whisky
\J AND
GIRLS
And
m
as
> /Si
"•art
n
fcl
i-l!l^ ED 284 Collins Sl.MplhnnrnP
S. FREEMAN # SONS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
specialties:
BATHOS
FREEMAN’S
BAKING
PRIZE
POWDER.
PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR,
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WYNYAED SQUARE, SYDNEY.
PRIZE MEDAL DRESSING*
HAUTHAWAY’S
PEERLESS GLOSS
takes first prize medals at Boston, Vienna, London, Phila-
delphia, Melbourne, and all other leading cities, for pro-
ducing the finest possible polish, and absolute freedom
from all substances injurious to the leather.
It is the favorite dressing of the world for
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S
shoes, as it is easily applied, retains its brilliancy, and will
not rub off and soil garments. Try it once and you will
use it always. Sold nearly everywhere. Made only by
C. L. HAUTH AWAY £. SONS
BOSTON, MASS.
' U. S. A.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
PLAYS
Catalogue
Free . . .
French’s Acting Edition.
xdsd
Rare Books
French Novels
Books
for
the
Married
Extra Special Catalogue of
Books Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
Death notice cut from S.A. Advertiser,
19/7/ , 02: . I
.—On the 26th June, at Black Oak Farm, Kadina, |
Edith, the noble wife ef , and mother of four sons
and one daughter. . , ~ , , . I
In her, Love took the harp of life, smote the chord of
self, which passed out of sight. The angels, not so happy 1
as us, envied her and me, and that is why her high-born
kinsman came and took her away, and shut her up in a
sepulchre.—W.A. papers please copy.
Several humanising measures lost in last
session of Vic. Parliament have again been intro-
duced. First is Dr. Maloney’s bill to legitimise
children by registration under the Registration of
Births, Deaths and Marriage Acts. This bill
passed -the Assembly on a former occasion, but
was shelved by the godly House of bald-headed
landlords. It provides that either parent of an
illegitimate may register it in the records of the
Govt. Statist and that upon such registration
being made the child shall be deemed to be
legitimised, and on the death of the father or
mother shall have all the rights pertaining to the
property of the parent who registered it as are
possessed by any legitimate child. Another
civilised measure is one introduced by Agar
Wynne for the registration and control of money-
lenders. This bill requires all persons carrying on
business as money-lenders to register and keep a
record of their transactions for inspection. It
further provides that the courts may review any
loan transaction in which the interest stipulated
for by the loan office man is harsh or unconscion-
able. The bill, however, exempts banks and
linancial institutions—which does not seem logical.
To judge from stories told by backblox squatters,
banks and financial institutions number among
them some very first-class vampires.
Knight M‘Eacharn, lately returned from a
trip to Japan, explains to the press that the
little brown Government over there feels very
sore about the Aliens Restriction Act, and will
probably withdraw the subsidy from the Aus-
tralian steamers of the Nippon Yusen Sneeze line.
Why so many persons should find it necessary to
tell us, with a terrified expression, that Japan is
very angry and feels much insulted over our anti-
alien legislation, it is difficult to say. The Jap
himself is a most insulting person, who classes
Australians, Chinese and niggers together as
persons who are unfit to own land in his country,
and he shuts them out of retail trade in a high-
handed way that Australia has never dreamt of in
its most restrictive moments. The brown person
began the insulting process of restriction ; he car-
ries it further than we do even now; and, if he
doesn’t like it, he had better lump it. As for the
Nippon Yusen Sneeze line of steamers, it matters
very little how soon they leave off. The trade
is exceedingly one-sided. Australia buys a great
deal from Japan, and Japan buys very little in
return. Knight M‘Eacharn admits that the pros-
pect of ever doing a large export business to the
Jap. isles is very limited. The Jap. raises horses
more cheaply than we do, and he lias already more
meat than he wants and is exporting a little. So
Adstralia might as well leave off dealing with the
Jap. and spend the money in encouraging France
or Germany or Belgium—countries that buy
liberally from us and deserve any encouragement
we can spare.
Brooches at
Manufacturers’
Prices !
These Brooches are absolutely the best. Brooch
values ever offered in Sydney. Why? Because
they are sold at the same pric s at which
many jewellers buy to sell at Retail!
3/6.
6/0.
WWSO2
12/6.
They are beautifully designed, are solid 9c. Gold,
Hall-Marked.
Thousands of Brooches to Choose from.-
L. I. FLEGELTAUB,
WATCHMAKER and JEWELLER,
96 KING ST., SYDNEY (and at London).
SUN PROOF . . .
INPESO SERSES
. . AND . .
Tuirrne -
To stand Hard Wear.
Faocy Worsted StiitiQgS
(Bannockburns and Homespuns).
David Braham & Go.,
TAILORS & OUTFITTERS
73 & 75 KING ST., SYDNEY
(round A. J.S. Bank corner).
SOLE AGENTS in N.S.W. for
/ERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR SHIRTS . . .
White or Colored Shirts, made to order, from 5/6
LINE —All-Wool Sweaters, 4/6, 5/6 and 6/6
Compare our Prices.
THE ROYAL BANK OF QUEENSLAND LTD
• THIRTY-THIRD REPORT •
Adopted by the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held at the Banking House,
Queen Street, Brisbane, on Tuesday, 15th July, 1902.
T e Net Profits for the half-year, after deducting Rehate on Bills, Interest on Deposits,
providing for Contingencies, payment of all charges, and reducing valuation of Bank
Furniture and Fittings, amounted to ±9,023 10 10
To which was added the amount carried forward from last half-year ~ ", 1,080 1 10
Giving an available balance of .. .. .. .. -• .. £10,103 12 8
Which has been distributed as follows :
To Dividend for the half-year at the rate of 3 per cent, per annum on Ordinary shares, and
3J per cent, per annum on Preference Shares 6,382 8 8
~ Dividend duty on above .; .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. •• 317 5 6
~ Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. .. .. .. •• 2,000 0 0
~ Balance carried forward to next half-year . * .. 1,403 18 6
£10,103 12 8
By Order of the Board,
EDWD. D. DAY,
General Manager.
r AGGREGATE BALANCE SHEET
... OF THE . . .
ROYAL BANK OF QUEENSLAND LIMITED. 30™ JUNE, 1902,
Capital paid up
Reserve Fund
Profit and Loss
Bills Payable
LIABILITIES.
£ s. d. £ s. d.
.. 444,961 16 0
.. 54,000 0 0
.. 10,103 12 8
509,065 8 8
9,497 13 11
Capital paid up
Reserve Fund
Profit and Loss
Bills Payable
Liability to Treasury for
Notes held in reserve ..
notes neiu in reserve ..
Deposits and other Liabili-
ties
33,500 0 0
879,322 3 2
922,319 17 1
£1,431,385 5 9
ASSETS.
& s. d. £ a. d.
Coin on hand and Cash at
Banks 227,445 16 0
Bullion .. .. .. 17,655 4 0
Treasury Notes on hand .. 39,002 0 0
Government Stock. .. 59,918 5 0
344,021 5 0
Bank Premises, Furniture, &c. .. .. 61,814 12 10
Bills discounted and all other Debts due
to the Bank .. .. 1,025,549 7 11
£1,431,385 5 9
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT,
30th JUNE, 1902.
Cr.
Dr.
To Salaries, Rent, and
other Expenses at
Head Office and 17
Branches
„ Interest paid and ac-
crued on Fixed De-
• posits, Rebate and Ex-
change Paid ..
„Balance ~. „ „
£9,422 13 8
10,866 5 10
£20,288 19 6
10,103 12 8
£30,392 12 2
By Balance brought forward .. .. £3,080 110
~ Gross Profit for the half-year .. .. 29,812 10 i
£30,892 12 2
reserve luvn.
To Balance
£56,000 0 0
£56,000 0 o
By Balance invested in Government Stock £54,000 0 0
„ Transfer from Profit and Loss Account 2,000 0 0
£56,000 0 0
Audited and found correct.
Brisbane, Uh July, 1902.
GEO. FEED. SCOTT, 8.A., F.1.A.Q., \ A , lf]i( . or „
CHAS. A. CLARKE, A. A. (Eng.) / Ananora.
P. L. CAEDEW, Chairman.
EDWD. D. DAY, General Manager.
AUDITORS’ REPORT.
We have examined the foregoing Aggregate Balance Sheet, made up to 30th June, 1902, and report that we rind
the several items therein stated to conform to the Balances in the General Ledger at Head Office, and to the Balance
Sheets furnished by the Branches ; these latter being certified to by the respective Managers and Accountants.
We have counted the Cash, and examined the Bills held by the Bank at the Head Office in Brisbane, on the 30th
ultimo, and hereby certify that we have found them correct. The Securities held ; at the Head Office have, at the
request of the Directors, been examined by Messrs. Chambers, Bruce & McNab, Solicitors to the Bank, and we have
seen their certificate to the effect that they are in order.
We have further to certify that in our opinion the said Aggregate Balance Sheet is properly drawn up, and
exhibits a true and correct view of the Bank’s affairs as shown by the Books on the 30th June, 1902.
GEO. FRED. SCOTT, 8.A., F.1.A.Q.) Anditora
Brisbane, hth July, ISOS, OHAS, A. CLARKE, A.A. (Eng.), /


The new material—magnalium—of which
the Austrian Govt, is hawing cavalry-swords made,
is a compound of aluminium and magnesium, and
is said to combine surprising lightness with great
strength and flexibility. It is with this material
that Maxim proposes in future to build flying-
machines.
A curious decision, given in a case decided
early last century, was cited in a Melbourne law-
court t’other day, in support of the contention
that foals are the property of the owner of the
mother
In this authority it was shown that the Roman law
established the right of ownership, with an extraordinary
distinction in the case of swans. While in all animals the
owner of the female was entitled to the progeny, the
cygnets belonged equally to the owners of the father and
the mother. The learned Judge is reported to have said,
“And the law thereof is founded on a reason in nature,
for the cock swan is an emblem of representation of an
affectionate and true husband to his wife above all other
fowls ; for the cock swan holdeth himself to one female
only, and for this cause nature hath conferred on him a
gift beyond all others, that is to die so cheerfully that he
sings sweetly when he dies, upon which the poet saith :
' Dulcia defecta modulator carmina lingua, Cantator,
cygnus, funeris ipse sui,’ &c.”
Also, Ribuck and Rumbo.
To such depths does the silliness of Aus-
tralian politics descend at times. Notice of ques-
tion in N.S. W. Assembly:
Dr. Ross to ask the Minister of Public Instruction—As
the Times reprint of the “ Encyclopaedia Britannica ” has
lately been submitted to the public of New South Wales
by the London Daily Mail, through the Sydney press, on
the most liberal terms, viz., a deposit of ss. and an instal-
ment of 12s. per month, can he furnish this House with
any information as to the respective Public Libraries and
various Schools of Arts in the State that are in possession
of this publication, or the number of copies, if any, such
institutions here are likely to order of this cheap and
most valuable publication ?
There should be an order of the House authorising
the Ministry, on extreme occasions, to set aside
its natural politeness and wink derisively at the
hon. member, instead of going into details. Dr.
Ross was the model for Phil May’s Bulletin pic-
ture of Diogenes looking for an honest man ; only
the limitations of the printing-press prevented the
old gentleman from being colored the bright green
which the case called for.
Another move has been made in Vic.
Legislature to unite the two rival country
parties, which have for their admitted, object
the filching of everything possible from the
Treasury for the country districts, and the
enabling of water trusts and other yokel
bodies to get hundreds of thousands of loan
money from Govt, and forget to pay it back. It
was an attempt to bring the country parties
together that resulted lately in the “chucking”
of Peacock, and billets in the Irvine Govt, for
Taverner and McKenzie, the heads of the two
factions. Those two cute politicians used their
followers to climb up, and then kicked the human
ladder from under them. And the new move is,
of course, the usual scheme of the disappointed
ones for themselves accumulating the influence
which leads to the good old Treasury benches.
Extract from a description of the British
military officer, condensed from the report of a
British official committee which recently sat to
inquire into that promising person :
Learning in the army is laughed at rather than en-
couraged, and female influence is more powerful than
ability and knowledge. “ Games ” have ruled the roost.
The man of sport is petted, and the man of science
snubbed and ignored. Candidates have got into the
cavalry who secured only 400 out of a possible 2000 marks.
In 1900, while the war was at its height, “ the staff at
Aldershot found it necessary to complain of the ignorance
of the junior officers sent to them. They were valueless,
yet some of them who had been warned that they must
leave the service owing to inefficiency and want of
knowledge were sent off to South Africa in charge of
men.” Dr. Maguire mentions, in the course of an inter-
view, the case of an officer who was advanced over the
heads of his seniors, who were better qualified, apparently
on account of his “ versatility in arranging tableaux
vivants.” The case of another favored officer is thus
described : —“ At noon he failed niiserablv in his pre-
liminary examination, but four hours later‘he had been
appointed to a regiment in South Africa. It is an open
secret that during the last few years any army candidate
who happened to be well connected troubled himself but
little about the preliminary, or indeed any subsequent,
examination. Whether he failed or passed was to him
immaterial, provided he had sufficient influence at his
back, for then he was sure to obtain his commission.”
The same witness told the committee that there has been
an enormous general deterioration in the men offering
themselves for army commissions as compared with the
class available some years ago. “They know nothing at
all prope: las a rule.” . . . According to the Sandhurst
systc. . of marks, a knowledge of French or German is
consi.: red of equal importance with tactics ! Musketry,
signalling and veterinary science are entirely neglected.
.Cadets, have to pay extra to' learn how to shoot. At
Woolwich the cadets are supplied with a muzzleloading
6.6-in. howitzer without a carriage to learn their business.
... . For . many years past there had been a great
difficulty in getting the class of officers “we want.”
“ You mean,” said a member of the committee, “that
there is a difficulty in getting officers both physically and
intellectually capable?” “I am sorry to say,” replied
the witness, “ that the officer wanted in tne army is only
one who can command from £l5O to £l5OO a year : there
is no room at all in the army—and this comes before me
every day—for the man who has got only £5O a year of
his own.” He confessed, further, that “it is, as a rule,
only the boys who will not work who go into the cavalry,
and we are obliged to take them, as there are no other
candidates.”
The Bulletin Reciter has been taken by
Bill and Jim straight to their warm hearts, and
already its contents have gladdened thousands of
audiences all over Australia. Most of, the best
and most famous Bulletin recitation-pieces are
included in this fine collection—price ss. post-
free from Bulletin office.
The death is announced at Adelaide of
Wm. Jacobs, of Moorooroya, S.A., a pioneer
of that State, aged 88. Ho arrived with Col.
Light in the Rapid and assisted in the first suryey
of Adelaide.
Herzog, the ex-Orange Free State judge,
who is not exercising a pacific influence just now,
is quite a young man. the beginning of the
war he resigned from the Bench and took charge
of the O.F.S. commissariat department, which
stood badly in need of an organiser, and in which
he did herculean work. After the capture of
Bloemfontein, and the subsequent evacuation of
Kroonstad, the commissariat department was
abolished (there wasn’t any regular food-supply),
and Herzog became commandant, achieving some
success. Judge Herzog’s wife was the first woman
to be forcibly removed to the refugee camp at
Port Elizabeth. Herzog was educated in South
Africa, and “finished” in England, where he
passed his exams, for the Bar.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
The colonial crawlers who imagine they
can see Prime-Ministerial capacity in Joe Chamber-
lain, are a misguided crew. With his com-
paratively limited opportunities for mischief as
Secretary for the Colonies, Chamberlain’s “ sand-
glass and revolver” diplomacy has already cost
his country countless millions and 20,000 lives.
Within five years he has publicly insulted three
great powers. Of the Czar he said—“ He who
sups with,the devil must sup with a long spoon.”
France he told “to mind her manners,” and only
recently he dilated on the “barbarity of the Ger-
mans in the Franco-German war.” It is good
that Prime Minister Chamberlain did not say
this, but only Colonial Secretary Joe. Much of
Salisbury’s time of late years was spent in cor-
recting Chamberlain’s blunders.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It dri\es away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
G. H. Reid said at Nuinurkah (Vic.) the
other night, “England’s navy needs men more
than money.” Truer words were never spoken.
Brassey, in his Naval Annual for ’92, expounds
the difficulty, with a violent alarum. He shows
how English sailors are rapidly decreasing in the
commercial navy, and how inadequate are the
naval reserves. Further, how the service goes to
the dogs through obstinacy in retaining aristo-
cratic privilege. Thus engineers, because they
do something useful, cannot be rated as officers.
A month or two ago the Admiralty implored the
Association of Head Masters of the great public
schools to recommend the entrance of students at
the Naval Engineering College, Keyham, Ply-
mouth. The masters sternly replied that privi-
leges must first be broken down. The engineer,
asked to join the navy, occupies a position like
that of the decently-educated and comely woman
who is advised to go into domestic service.
Martin’s Apiol and Steel Pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia, price 4s. 6d.
Agents: Sayers, Allport, and Potter, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor, W. Martin, Pharmaceutical
Chemist, Southampton, England.*
“E.F.”: The publication of Kruger’s
cypher correspondence with the German Govt,
might serve to show what was in Bismarck’s mind
when he predicted that S’Africa would be the
grave of the British Empire. It was Bismarck,
by the way, who is understood to have seen
nothing in Lord Salisbury but “a lath painted to
resemble iron.” Looking back at Salisbury’s dis-
creet way of treating the trouble in China what
tin ■ Britain was burdened with the S’African
War one is struck by the thought that Bismarck
was a poor judge. Tim Bismarckian dream of
empire-expansion by means of a vast mechanical
military force is a vanished dream, a buried illu-
sion. S’ Africa is its grave. It is also a place of
interment for Bizzy’s reputation as a prophet.
But Salisbury’s, drowsy wisdom justifies itself.
The fat Marquis, who dozed with his best eye
open, has gone into retirement, chuckling, whilst
German diplomacy awaits the revelation of its
failure.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
33 of this issue *
EDWARDS
I ■
fsdf
dsf
THE GREAT
HAIR PRODUCER & RESTORER
The Very Finest Dressing. Specially Prepared and Delicately Perfumed.
A LUXURY AND A NECESSITY TO EYERY MODERN TOILET.
fm
Restores the Hair
Promotes the Growth
Arrests the Fall
Strengthens the Roots
Preserves the Hair
Removes Dandruff
Aiiays all Irritation
'MARLENE*
Preserves,
Strengthens and
Invigorates
Children’s Hair.
f
Full description and directions for use in 20 languages supplied with every bottle •
1/-, 2/6 and (triple 2/6 size) 4/6 per Bottle of Druggists &c., all over the World.
EDWARDS’ “HARLENE” Co., 95 & 96, HIGH HOLBGRN, LOHDON, W.C.
Anglican Bishop Pain, late of Darling-
hurst, is guaranteed a stipend of £BOO a year in
Gippsland.
xz
RAMEY'S MEDIC A TOR
For the Treatment of Catarrh. Hay Fever,
Bronchitis. Influenza. Catarrhal
Deafness, etc.
Medlcator, with complete treat-
ment, only 101-, post free.
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY
229,231 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE. J
Cheapest House In Australia for EDISON
Phonographs Records
“BIJOU,” with 6 Records £1 10 0
EDISON “STANDARD,” with 12 Records .. 5 10 0
EDISON "HOME,” with 24 Records .. .. 8 10 0
COMBINATION A1 “GRAND,” taking both
Large and Small Records, with 12 Records, 0
Concert (5in.) Records and Large Horn .. 10 10 0
EDISON RECORDS, English and American,
per dozen .10 0
CONCERT (5in.) RECORDS, per dozen.. .. 3 0 0
Send for Splendid New Illustrated Catalogue containing
6000 Selections to choose from. Electric Fans, with
Battery, £5 ; Electric Bike Lamps, 21s ; Flash Lights,
Scarf Pin Lights, 10s 6d ; Vapour Bath Cabinets, 20s; &c.,
Free.
Records can be posted to any address. Machines care-
fully packed and forwarded to any part of Australasia.
UBEVBS & CO.,
KING WILLIAM STREET, ADELAIDE.
Publications.
1
yo v
0/ *
V
Allan's
Australian Music Books
&
' S CV-
4?
%
%
Sold by all Music Sellers in Auarralasia.
Allan a Co. ptv. ltd.. 276-278 collins st.. Melbourne
“BUSHMAN >»«
BUCCANEER
Illustrated
HARRY MO RANT:
(op the
Busiiveldt
Carbineers)
HIS ’V€NTUR€S
ANP V€RS€S
By FRANK RENAR.
The History, Verses and Correspondence of
“The Breaker.’’
PRICE ONE~SHILUNG
POSTAGE ONE PENNY. All Booksellers.
Wholesale: Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney.
Retail: “ Bulletin ” Newspaper Co. Ltd., Sydney.
As it your music-;: c l'.er for
FREDERIC H. COWEN’S
Beautiful Song,
The Mission of a Rose
Sung with the greatest success by
MTisa CASTLES.
The Illustrated London News says: “Itis a gem.”
Missing Friends.
JOSEPH G. HAY,
Formerly of Lawson, New South Wales,
by communicating with the undersigned
would hear of something to his advantage.
a’BECKETT & HORROCKS,
Solicitors,
Wentworth Court, SYDNEY.
Bernard james mcandrew, of west wick.
ham, Kent, England, came to Australia about 1891.
—Will Mr. McAndrew, or any person who can give
information of his movements and whereabouts since
1893, please communicate with Moule, Hamilton, and
Kiddle, Solicitors, 55 Market-st., Melbourne, Victoria.
Business Announcements.
cvx
o
p
p
o
s
I
T
E
G
P
6
o o
p
A
T
T
E
R
N
S
F
R
E
E
Art is
a
Necessity
of Life.
42
We are
Artists
in
Tailoring,
LONDON TAILORING DEPOT,
ME.LB. F, S. Meyers, Manager,
I’ll Try It.'
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
The Result.
CRAIG & AITKEIM, N.s.w. Barber’s Supply
House. 680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
YER
PECTORAL
p*i
“ We are old friends, this bottle and
I. We have known each other for over
sixty years. When a boy I was always
taking cold, but a few doses of this
medicine would at once set me right.
“ When a young man I had a weak
throat and weak lungs. My friends
feared some lung trouble, but
Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
greatly strengthened my throat, cleared
up my voice, and took away the ten-
dency for every cold to go to my lungs.
“ Last year I had a bad attack of la
grippe. The only medicine I took was
from this bottle, and I came out all
right. I know it’s good, too, for
asthma, bronchitis, pneumonia,croup.”
There are many substitutes and imi-
tations. Beware of them! Be sure
you get Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
Two sizes. Large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
FITS CURED
From ths first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently -the -very worst cases of Epilepsy when
every other remedy had failed. Price 4/6 and 11 /•
Thousands of testimonials.
OF AJLJL CHEMISTS, STORES, ETC.
WHoLkSALK AGENTS
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared bv I. W NICHOLL, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
25 HIGH STREET, BELFAST, IRELAND.
cvxc
vxc
vxcvv
Sufferers from Deafness or Head Noises
desiring a complete and permanent cure
should write to 'I he L. R. VERNON CO.
t.O HUNTER ST., SYDNEY, for pam-
phlet desc ibing an entirely new self-
applied method which we will send post
free on mentioning this paper.
2
EVERY MAN *
SUFFERING from DEBILITY and WEAKNESS should
send for a valuable Pamphlet explaining how all
Nervous and Organic Derangements may be success-
fully treated withoutstomach medication. The method
is easy and pleasant, and will effect a perfect and per-
manent cure. Sent in a plain sealed envelope free of
charge. E. NORTON, 59 &00 Chancery Lane, London,
Eng. Over 30 years’ continuous success. ar
LADIES.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
PHOTOS
Models from Life, Beautiful Stereo-
scopies, etc. List with 100 Minia-
ture and 3 Cabinet size photos.
ss. P.O.C. or stamps.
S. RECKNAGEL NACHF, Munich, 1 Brieffach, Cormany (


Amusements.
Theatre royal, Sydney
Lessee .. .. .. Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Under the Direction of .. Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative .. .. Mr. Allan Hamilton.
LAST FOUR WEEKS,
THE BROUGH COMEDY COMPANY
TO-NIGHT, and EVERY EVENING,
“IR.I S,”
An Original Drama in Five Acts, by A. W. Pinero.
m' MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY, at 2.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
YCEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee .. .. .. Mr. Wm. Anderson.
Sub Lessee .. .. Bland Holt.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING BLAND HOLT'S
Latest Melodramatic Spectacle,
WITN FLY IN <3 COLORS.
BRIGHT !
BRISK 1
BREEZY I
POPULAR PRICES—3s„ 25., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
/CRITERION THEATRE, SYDN E Y.
Sole Lessee
Manager
John F. Sheridan.
Frank Weathersby.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING,
J ohn F.
SHERIDAN,
AND BRILLIANT COMPANY,
Appearing in Geo. Dance’s Comic Operatic Play,
THE LADY SLAVEY.
THE LADY SLAVEY.
PRICES—3s., 25., Is. 6d., and Is. Box Plan at
Nicholson’s. No Extra Charge for Booking. Day Sale
(early doors only) at White Rose Confectionery.
PAL ACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessees .. .. Messrs. LEE and RIAL.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S
MUSICAL COMEDY COMPANY
in the Charming Comic Opera,
S A. NT T O Y.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Nicholson and Co.
VICTORIA TH2ATRe7 nEWCASTLE.
Under the Direction of Maud Williamson.
PT- SATURDAY, AUGUST 9th, 1902,
First Appearance of the Ever Popular
WO O D S-W 1 LL I A MS O N COMPANY
SAT. and MON., AUGUST 9th and 11th,
HANDS ACROSS THE SEA.
TUES. and WED., AUGUST 12th and 13th,
THE CATES OF BONDAGE.
THURS. and FRI., AUGUST 14th and 15th, BOY JIM.
Next Week’s Arrangements will be duly announced.
IVO L I THEATRE, SYfIUIE Y,'
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Ma. Harry Rickards
An uninterrupted furore, night after night, created by
L’incomparable PAUL CINQUEVALLI.
A Most Enthusiastic Welcome accorded
THE JACKSON FAMILY.
Unqualified Success of MARK ANTHONY, the great
London So, iety Entertainer and Story-Teller.
BARNEY FAGAN and HENRIETTA BYRON, TOM
WOOTTWELL, WILLIAMS QUARTETTE, BABY
PARKES, &c., &c.
Prices as Usual. Matinees Wednesday and Saturday.
ICKARDS* NEW 6 PERA HOU3E~
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mr. HARRY RICKARDS.
EVERY EVENING, at 8 p.m.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS at 2.30p.m.
Madame LYDIA YEAMANS-TITUS.
Mr. FREDERICK J. TITUS.
THE HARVEY BOYS. ADA DELROY.
LULU ZESCH. DORA TAYLOR. ERNEST BRINKMANN.
THE WILTON BROS..
Prices —2s. 6d., 25., Is., and 6d. Plan at Allan’s.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee .. .. .. Mr. Bland Holt.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. William Anderson.
Bus. Manager, James Hendv. Treas., Julius Grant.
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION, headed bv Miss EUGENIE DUGGAN.
EVERY EVENING, the Latest London Success,
THE WORST WOMAN IN LONDON,
Pronounced by London press and public to be one
of the best Dramas of modern days.
Prices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. George Musgrove.
EVERY EVENING, Australia’s Greatest High-Class
Comedy Artiste,
MISS NELLIE STEWART,
SWEET NELL OF OLD DRURY,
Assisted by Geo. Musgrove’s New English Dramatic Co.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Wednesday Matinees.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. Willia.usox.
Bus. Manager, Geo. Tallis. Treas., E. J. Tait.
FRIDAY, AUGUST 8, LAST NIGHT of
A. CIRCUS GIRL-
SATURDAY, AUGUST 9, FOR SIX NIGHTS ONLY,
A RUNAWAY GIRL,
The Most Successful k oP all Musical Plays.
Prices as Usual.
Box Plan at Allan s.
G AI
AIETY THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
DAN BARRY’S DRAMATIC CO.
r.'" • •. j .
in the Splendid Drama of Slave Life,
UNCLE TOM’S CABIN.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessees : Henry Lee and J. G. Rial.
EVERY EVENING, at 7.45 Sharp,
HENRY LEE as CYRANO DE BERCERAC.
Instant and Unequivocal Success of the Most Attractive
Play ever Presented in Melbourne,
CYRANO DE BERGERAC
Mr. Henry Lee supported by Miss Janet Waldorf
and an adequate company.
Prices—s 3., 35., 25., Is. Reserved Seats at Allan’s.
A. MIDDLETON, General Manager.
The Mount Kembla Calamity.
When the earth roared and quivered like some
great beast in pain, the women of Mt. Kembla
township knew what was meant. Since coal was
first digged out of the ground the miner’s wife can
see, in the soft cascade of her bridal veil, the
wraith of the ‘ ‘ white-damp ” which may be
doomed to steal between her and her husband,
sundering irrevocably. The women knew; and
hurried with hearts aquake and gasping breath to
the pit-mouth. It was early in the afternoon of
July 31 when the roar was heard, and most of the
men-folk of the mining village which clings to the
steep side of Kembla and listens to the drowsy
hum of the Pacific beating on beaches a thousand
feet below, were in the mine : some hewing coal,
others going to their working places (for the time
was at the “change of shifts”)—close on three
hundred souls in all. Down in the town of
Wollongong a Court of Justice was making
inquiry as to what wages these men deserved
who went into the bowels of the earth for coal,
and a witness was saying that Kembla pit “ was
the safest in the world ” when, dulled by distance,
the sound of destruction was heard, and from the
sea-jetty a watcher noticed a tongue of blue flame
leap from the earth to tell of the death below.
• • • a
At the pit-mouth, after the first great roar,
absolute stillness, no groan or shriek to tell of
the carnage, the air bruised only by the sobs of
women, and the deep panting of men rushing up
to the rescue. There is no Victoria Cross to be
won in a coal-pit battle with Death, vet, when
men are being mown down by the white-damp
with more deadly sureuess than by any artillery,
eager volunteers are ever ready to rush in to the
rescue. Heroism is commonplace in this grimy-
calling of coal-getting, and whilst the long, long
list of men who have given up their lives for their
fellows’ sake is year by year lengthened, there
never creeps into the miner’s mind a thought of
timidity when the call comes for succour.
“Are you going in?” asked the colliery-manager
at Kembla of a miner, who had come up from Wol-
longong, and was seen near the pit-mouth getting
a lamp ready.
“Aye,” said the man. Not a touch of concern,
not a thought of any heroics.
“ Do you know the mine ? ”
“Aye, I think so.”
And the smudged hero slouched away on his
iron-shod feet—to save others, or to sacrifice him-
self, as Fate decreed.
* • * *
“There was a sad lack of proper organisation,”
wrote one critic of the rescue work. He had
found it hard to get figures or facts. With scores
dying underground, and other scores on the sur-
face eager to rush in to help, there was in truth
“a lack of organisation.” No man had a mind to
wait until he was drawn up in line, and called to
attention, and photographed before rushing to the
rescue. So eager was the heroic spirit that the
men went to work without any formality at
all. Irregular, yes, but surely not “sad.”
In all, about 60 men took part in the
rescue operations. Two of them lost their
lives, M'Cabe and M'Murray. M'Cabe was a
mining surveyor, and held, also, the rank of
Major in the Wollongong Garrison Artillery. A
man of truly heroic mould, he was one of the fore-
most in rescue-work at the Bulli pit disaster in
1887. Early on the scene at the Kembla calamity
his eagerness to save life lured him to his death.
AT THE PIT MOUTH AFTER THE EXPLOSION.
Dr. Nash, M.L.0., and Dr. Paton, Government
Health Officer, were sent by the State Premier to
Kembla when the news of the calamity reached
Sydney. They at once put themselves under the
command of Dr. Robertson, a medical doctor by
training, but now a chief man in New South Wales
coal-mining, and generally leader of the rescue
workers when a roar from the pit-mouth bellows
of disaster. A dour Scotchman, with a call for
prompt obedience in every note of his stern, per-
emptory speech, Dr. Robertson is a trusted
general to .whom the coal-men turn when perils
have to be faced. He knows the coal-mines and
their gase3, as other men know flowers and their
perfumes. With as hearty a contempt for danger
as for sloth, Robertson carries out heroic work
with no grace at all —almost uncouthly ; and can
do fine things better than he can talk of them.
He came to Kembla Colliery almost straight from
a sick bed, but the dregs of an influenza did not
prevent him from strenuous, perilous work through
a night and a day for 3ome 20 hours. When Drs.
Nash and Paton enlisted under his command, Dr.
Robertson ordered the one to accompany him, the
other to go by the side of McCabe into the under-
ground workings, and then, reflecting, counter-
manded these instructions. The men of medicine
would be of little use in the mine ; on the surface
their skill might revive some almost smothered
spark of life. No use risking their lives. But he
went in himself, and with him the heroic M'Cabe.
“If I had gone in,” said Dr. Paton, “I would
almost certainly have shared McCabe’s fate.” As
MAJOR M'CABE,
A hero who sacrificed his life to save others.
events resolved themselves, the two doctors were
able to do but little ; the miners brought out were
invariably dead, whisked out of life by the fumes
of “white-damp,” the most deadly poison known
to man.
When coal gas explodes or burns in the open
air, carbonic acid gas or carbon dioxide (C. 0.2) is
formed, and this, though not poisonous, will not
support life. In an atmosphere made up wholly
of it man quickly smothers, but should it be mixed
with some fresh air, life may continue. A close,
ill-ventilated room contains an excess of carbonic
acid gas, and is hurtful, though not necessarily
fatal. But when coal gas explodes where there is
but little o; ygen and much carbon, there are too
few atoms of oxygen to enable each atom of carbon
to attach to itself two of them ; and so they mate
together, carbon and oxygen, on equal terms.
That forms carbon monoxide (C. 0.), “ white
damp ” —most relentless of murderers. A breath
of it, and the blood, paralysed, forgets its func-
tions ; the heart beats out a wild alarm, flutters
faintly, stops, and life gently passes away. The
gas kills most mercifuPy A little weariness
a little faintness, a desir : to rest, no thought of
struggling, no anxiety for rescue, but swift, silent
Death
—which more softly falls
Than tired eyelids upon tired eyes.
« * * *
All that Th. rsday afternoon at the pit-mouth,
where only the pitifully-scarred earth suggested
the horror of what was below, tense faces of women
and frightened ones of children were mocked by
the bright gay sunshine and the most fair and
beautiful, scene. Rescue parties began to bring
corpses to the surface before nightfall, and
they were put in rows in a rough shed,
to be scanned by wives and mothers, who
would not surrender hope until the dead faces of
their loved ones compelled them to believe in the
cruelty of Fate. One mother, a babe in her arms,
was at the pit-mouth by five on Thursday after-
noon. The sun went down, and from the
Pacific below there came a gale moaning
over the mountain, as chilling, almost, as
Death itself. She waited on, stubborn not to
leave the spot until he was brought out, alive or
dead. Hours passed and the wind moaned with
deeper tone as the corpses in the shed grew row by
row. The woman waited on, rushing forward as
each streuher came up from the underworld,
scanning the bodies for his face. The wind went
down sinking its voice to a sigh, and the sun
suddenly showed up: still the woman waited on.
At high noon she was yet there, pushing forward to
each stretcher, deaf to all entreaty, dumb with
her weight of anxiety. Shadows lengthened on the
mountain and the chill of evening was again on the
land before they brought to her her husband,
dead, and she turned home in despair.
* • * »
In the house of the dead the sight was grim
beyond what words can tell. Here was the
slaughter of a battle-field but no red flags of
wounds to flaunt defiance to pale Death. Most of
the victims had, as it were, fallen asleep, and their
grimy faces were still life-like. One mouth clenched
a pipe; on several there hovered a smile as of rest
after much toil. A few bodies were scarred by
burns; in only three cases had Death shed blood.
Major M'Cabe, killed by the carbon monoxide,
had, in falling prone, cut his forehead ; the wound,
bled for hours after he was dead. The gas kills
without congealing the blood.
There were some 260 men in and about the mine
when the hand of calamity fell on Mt. Kembla.
Of these, some 87 perished, and two men lost their
lives in the work of rescue. The death roll totals
near ninety, so far as is known T the greatest of
any mining accident in Australia. There is in
N.S.W. a State fund for the support of the
widows and orphans of miners; this will be
largely aided by private charity, and those
who have lost their bread-winners will not
be rendered destitute. The cause of the
accident was clearly an explosion of gas—-
probably of a great accumulation of gas since the
wrecking force was so terrible. The mine was
worked with naked lights, and was thought to be
quite free from inflammable gases. But Mt.
Kembla was originally a shale mine, and there was
a great area of abandoned workings. Possibly an
accumulation of gas therein, and its sudden flow
to the new workings, was directly responsible for
the disaster. Whether the responsibility can be
traced further back, to some human neglect of
precaution, is a point to be settled by an inquiry ;
and there seems to be a general wish that that
inquiry should be most full and searching. This
hecatomb may thus save more lives in the future
than it has cost in the present. Death is very
impressive when he strikes suddenly into the
thick of men.
The vigorous and enthusiastic “ Puyakka,”
Dr. “Jack” Elkington, well-known to medical
and journalistic Melbourne, has just secured an
appointment after his own heart. A year or two
ago he left Victoria for Europe to further enlarge
Ins knowledge of sanitary science, and last week
he celebrated his negotiation of the D.P.H.
degree by being appointed to the charge of a
plague-district in the Punjaub (India).
Vic. Mines Department has completed its
measurements of rock-temperatures. At surface
the average temperature of the ground is
about ; there is an increase of 1° for every
80ft. sunk to 3700 ft. At 3624 ft. in the New Chum
Railway, under very good conditions for experi-
ment, 106 - 95 J was registered. Local action of
water, etc., may, of course, interfere with the
regularity of the increment. The average surface
temperature is almost the same as the average of
the air above the surface.
At Inglewood (Vic.), t’other day, a young
unmarried woman was charged with having aban-
doned the usual illicit baby, five weeks old, in an
open paddock. In evidence it transpired that the
mother had left the unfortunate child in the
paddock for two frosty nights while she spent the
evenings in playing music and dancing at a friend’s
house. When asked if she had put the child there
to die, she answered “Yes.” The strangest part
of the case was that the five-weeks-old infant,
after its two nights’ experience, was found in the
best of health. Some responsibilities take a lot of
killing.
Samuel St. John Topp (“Sinjin” to a
very wide and appreciative circle of friends) is
another good Victorian died too young. It is
easy to reckon a dozen of the same cult who have
passed within a decade, and all a long way the
youthful side of the grand climacteric. Topp
was but 52. He will make a gap at the Equity
Bar which no man now appearing can fill, and
will be missed by more friends than most men
make and keep. His work was all in the law,
but he never lost touch with literature, from the
time he won the Shakespeare prize at Melbourne
University. Duncan Gillies outlasts him, which
is strange.
Failure of a con-
ference between the
A.W.U. and the Pas-
toralists’ Union of
N.S.W. on Monday
means a shearing-war
on top of the State’s
other troubles. Who
is in the right, who in
the wrong in the con-
troversy over wage-
rates it is hard to say ;
but this much the pub-
lic knows, that the
pastoralists had to be
forced into conference
by Mr. B. R. Wise,
State Attorney-
General, and that then
they went to the con-
ference avowedly reso-
lute not to compro-
mise. The shearers
offered to split the
difference between the
existing wage, 205.,
and the 255. demanded,
but the employers
would have none of
the suggestion. And
so there is to be in-
dustrial war despite
the existence of the
Arbitration Court.
Re unaccountable
risings in water sup-
plies : The engineer
at Mt. Crosby reser-
voir (Brisbane) recently
reported that the water
under his charge sud-
denly rose half-an-inch
without ascertainable
cause. Which looks
like a hint from Nature
that there is no drought
underground, and that
water is already conserved for us if we only knew
how to tap it —and use it.
Musolino, the Italian brigand, found
guilty at Rome of murdering eight travellers,
and sentenced to life imprisonment, the first
eight years in solitude, justly fears the sen-
tence, which is equivalent to a slow death in the
dark. In appealing for a revision Musolino writes :
“I will promise never to kill another person, and
I will also, swear to leave the country and seek my
fortune in America, the home of Liberty and
Justice! ” Sense of humor, hypocrisy, or plain,
ordinary front! Musolino, by the way, while
awaiting and during trial, received thousands of
amorous letters from women. Many were from
Englishwomen and residents in England.
One of Queen Victoria’s early despatches
to Gov. Gipps puts clearly the foolishness of the
nowadays desire to have Australian representa-
tives in the House of Commons. At that period
N.S.W. had appointed Francis Scott, M.P. fcr
Roxburghshire, at a salary of =2500 a year, to
represent N.S.W. in the Commons. The despatch
says that H.M., while having no objection to a
member of the Commons acting for Australia,
would yet point out that members of the Commons
not only represent the seats they fill but all her
dominions, and that one particular member would
add little to that representation. The Parlia-
mentary agent was later on abolished.
Prof. Gregory, of Melbourne University,
in a reoent lecture on the boundaries of Victoria,
mentioned that—
In the original document providing (or the separation
of Victoria from N.S. Wales, it was expressed that the
Murrumbidgee should be the boundary between the two
colonies. The clerk in the Colonial Office, however, who
had to copy the document several times, and who saw
references in it to the Murray also, was uncertain how to
spell the longer name, and also wished to save himself
trouble, so he calmly substituted Murray for Murrum-
bidgee in the document. Prof. Gregory declined to
vouch for the truth of the story, though he indicated
that it was not improbable. Prof. Kernot, at a subse-
quent stage, said that Mr. John Quick had informed him,
as the result of his researches, that. Sydney interest in
the House of Lords was responsible for altering the boun-
dary from the Murrumbidgee to the Murray, thus
depriving Victoria of the Riverina.


DISEASE CONQUERED BY THE
Freeman & Wallace Electro-Medical System.
NERVOUS DERANGEMENTS: Treatment, Causes, Cure.
A SCIENTIFIC DISCOVERY.
THE Australasian Climate is in many instances a debilitating one to many classes of men and
women. In young people, however, it tends to those abnormal physiological conditions
productive of so many nervous troubles in later life, and which lead to hyper-sensitive conditions of
the nervous system. The Specialists of the Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute have
proved in thousands of instances that the scope for the intervention and application of Electro-Thera-
puetics in functional and organic diseases of the central nervous system is very large. A new field
of physical medication is being exploited, by which long-standing diseases are being checked and con-
quered, and valuable lives are daily saved from premature decay and Death.
A NEW TREATMENT.
!^^grMssa^.tt««asw£^^.-5 S * <( a£
ss?rH»SH&3ESr tSßL’tnrsssssz iuxssp
SSH'Sir=s^b&"'srr.r^^^^^
the aim and the end of the Specialist’s study.
“Electric Invigorator” as Worn by Men or Women,
THE treatment for the Renovation of
Debilitated or Enfeebled
Constitutions, arising from physio-
logical or climatic causes, must possess a
well-defined restorative influ-
ence, acting at once on all the functions
of the body, increasing digestion,
blood-formation, assimilation,
innervation, invigoration, as well
as healthy nutritive processes. If these
can be assured, a new being is cre-
ated. The treatment which lends itself
with peculiar adaptability to all impaired
nervous systems is that of Electric-
Medication, or the combined sys-
tem of Medicine and Electricity.
In these two great remedial factors lies
strength for the strength less;
power for the palsied; health
for the unhappy. Electricity is Life ;
Disease is Death. If you wish to be a
strong man or woman, with the
power to walk long upon the paths of human pleasure; to lay aside the
crutches of your physical impairment and enjoy Life as it,is
given in health to mankind; you should adopt this new treatment.
Your adoption means endorsement. You will be cured in a few weeks or
months of the most persistent complaint. You will send us your
grateful thanks.
I' i
(tj' l
TREATMENT UPON LONG
STANDING DISEASES.
have lately received testimonies from persons who had
suffered from Bad Stomachs, Indigestion, Dys-
pepsia, Epileptic Fits, Convulsions, Palpitation,
Insomnia, Sick Headaches, Bad, Painful Backs,
Kidney and Bladder Troubles, Sciatica, Ner-
vousness, Rheumatism and Functional Disor-
ders, for many years, expressing their delight at their
steady recovery from their troubles after so much hopeless
suffering. Physicians of the widest experience endorse this
treatment as one that will effect radical changes in the
curing of diseases that have hitherto baffled the professional
mind. Already the “ Rontgen Rays” have been successfully
used in the London hospitals in checking the ravages of
Cancer. What secrets are not hidden in the application of
this current which animates all living things from
Pole to Pole? No man or woman need give up hope,
thinking themselves doomed, when relief* is at hand. The
new treatment of the Institute is invaluable ; it supplies the
nerve-force—Animal Magnetism— which is lacking,
to the enfeebled frame. The best nerve-and-muscle invigorator
at present within the grasp of the public is the
“Electric Invigorator ” of the Institute.
POWERS OP RESTORATION AND SENSATION.
THE action of this
marvellous recuper
ative agent upon the
nervous system is direct
and practical. Worn
around the loins in close
proximity to the nerves
traversing the lumbar
parts of the body, its ef-
fect upon the digestive
organs is at once mani-
fest. It imparts a healthy
activity to the nervous
system, a gentle, con-
stant electrifyingcurrent
dominates the nutritive
functions and stimulates
them. It builds anew
the elements of the ner-
vous system, causing
normal functional ac-
sen'sation 0 ' 1 Its°effect upon all nervous systems is equal, It gives energy to the brain,
courage to the heart, strength to the sinews, “ grit ” to the muscles ; it transforms
the weak into physical and mental giants. The cost of this wonderful electnca
agent is but the sum of £l. It is guaranteed by two of Sydney s leading Elec-
tricians as the completest, most efficacious, least, expensive, and most delicately-
constructed scientific instrument of its kind used in medical science. ,
9
5-r
PRICES
NOTE
Solid Gold, £lO (2oz. 18ct. Gold); Solid Silver, £3; Silver-plate, £1 10s;
Copper-plate, £1 (specially recommended).
These instruments have passed the Customs for the last five years as Genuine Electric Appliartcss.
-These instruments have beBt uBed Medical Practice> and hold tertific *ie unpossessed by others.
SOME
STRONG
SOUND
REASONS. •
There are several
REASONS why our
Belt is superior to all
others. It is necessary to
explain what those reasons
are. The first is, that it
is recommended by the
Medical Faculty. The
second is it has been ex-
haustively tested and pro-
nounced as “ electrically
perfect” by a Leading’
Sydney Eleotrician.
Thirdly, it
in the colonies, and is
therefore transmitted duty
free into the Common-
wealth States which makes
its purchasing price to
inter-State patients 20 per
cent, less than the im-
ported article. Fourthly,
it is guaranteed as genuine
and medically perfect by a
firm of undoubted repu-
tation and commercial
worth. These are all good
reasons why you should
purcase from us and no-
where else.
S&r
m
%
LS? T -aa
*2
»
u ifflk.MV
k mmm
l
,*>T>
Ci
nwr;
■< WS'V
r
y
Kv w
, J/
snr^
t/A
M^-
% s,f /£+ Vvv»
TO
PATIENTS
AND
PURCHASERS.
TO those who have pur-
chased Belts else-
where, the Specialists
would like to say a few
words. If any instrument
has been used and found
lacking in curative pro-
perties and has failed to
redeem the sufferer from
pain and physical misery,
that sufferer should con-
sult the Specialist of the
Institute. The reason why
this should be done is be-
cause electric applications
alone fail to act bene-
ficially upon the system,
whereas a judicious use of
Medicine and Electricity
will banish the most per-
sistent and obstinate cases
of disease. The special
treatment of the Institute
will he found curative,
therefore anyone lackingr
relief from Belts pur-
chased elsewhere should
embrace this opportunity
offered. The Specialists can
completely cure them.-' '-
What Mr. E. AMES, exponent in Australia of the new Tod Sloan style of riding, says .
THE SPECIALISTS. restoration oractised by you in your system of Electro-Medical treatment. I attribute to it much
.f the Slev'e” S!fPOwlr“"wlSS ln winning TWO GREAT RACING EVENTS In oh. do,” ( EDWARD H. AMES.
Australian Jockey Club Hotel) Randwick. ———— j———^
RUPTURE.
THE toughest and best-tempered steel becomes dulled in time and so does
the most energetic mind and strongest body at times become strained.
WE CUSS RUPTURE and we cure it so that it will remain cured.
Our methods are modern, reliable, permanent. We have cured more
cases of Rupture than any other association of medical men in Australasia.
Our “Electric Truss ” is an unsurpassed agent for strengthening the
weakened abdominal walls. Nine out of every ten can be cured in
three menths by our system of painless treatment without loss of
time or interruption of business. We have numberless testimonials to
this effect.
DOUBLE ELECTRIC TRUSS.
Used in cases of Inguinal Hernia.. It causes no
irritation or sense of discomfort; it is built on the
Moo-Main Lover principle, and its parts are covered
with soft Chamois Leather Pads which rest softly
on the skin, ensuring comfort, ease, and certainty
of action. Guaranteed not to BURN, BLISTER,
or IRRITATE.
SPECIALITIES.
THE following are Specialities of the Institute. Anyone suffering
from long-standing cases should apply to the Specialists:
Anaemia, Functional Heart Trouble, Impaired Digestion, Dys-
pepsia, Sick or Nervous Headache, Sciatica, Kidney Inflamma-
tion, Congestion, Diabetes, Dropsy, Lumbago, Rheumatism,
Liver Affections, Varicose Veins, Neurasthenia or Vital Weak-
ness, Varicocele, Abscess, Nervousness, Catarrh, Chest and
Lung Affections, Asthma. Ninety per cent, of long-standing cases of
the above diseases have been successfully cured. If a man or woman is
incurable, the Specialists frankly say so.
LETTERS.
zxc
THE correspondence
system of the In-
stitute is reliable for
privacy, punctuality,
precision. A letter, as
soon as received, is re-
plied to. It is treated
with professional se-
crecy, and no one sees
its contents but the
Specialists themselves.
Some persons are sensi-
tive in medical matters,
wad do not desire publicity. The Institute’s
Bystem is secrecy itself. If medicines are sent to
a patient, they are packed free from observation
g,nd sent to any address the patient desires. It
will be the patient’s fault if the secrecy is violated.
Some Reliable Voluntary Testimonials.
. INVIGORATOR/ during sindparbicyclf5indparbicyclf
a most strengthening effect upon the system.” (Signed) W. GAHAGAN.
Mr J H BROWN Professional Student of Art and Music, asserts: “ I testify to the marvellous benefits
derived from'j®ur Electro Medical treatment. Anyone suffering from Brain-Fag or general decline of the nervous
system should consult the Specialists of your Institute. (Signed) J. H. BROWN.
Mr JACK WILLIS, Professional Pugiltst op INTERCOLONIAL Cblebrity, attests: “ I derived much benefit
from your Electro-Medical treatment. In one of my recent fights, the press said I h^ d T before appeared in
such perfectly sieal condition. This result was due to the wear.n| jffone of y°ur ‘ mVIGO^ATORS.^^
Mr G lOHNS Champion Light-weight Pugilist of Australia, affirms; “I have found most beneficial
resußs through wekri- one of your ‘IN VIGOR ATORS.’ In training and in actual contests your Electropathic
treatment has done great good both to my nervous and physical systems ” JOHNS.
A USEFUL VOLUME.
“ /CLINICAL EXPERIENCES” is a hand-
le some, useful medical work, published
February 2nd, 1902. It contains 500 pages of
medical literature, 150 full and half-page medical
blocks descriptive of the human body, and con-
tains 50 chapters upon general diseases. Snake-
bite and its cure, Burns and Scalds, Restoring
Apparently Drowned, List of Valuable Prescrip-
tions, Invalids and Treatment, Love and Mar-
riage’, Electricity, Heart, Lung, Bladder and
Kidney Diseases, Micography, Rupture, etc., etc.
It has also a Medical Vocabulary of 1000 words.
It is a fine work for the Household Library. It is
only One Shilling in Stamps, post free for
Australia. Send early; the orders are coming in
rapidly.
CREDENTIALS.
lld America. Dr. Wallace enjoyed the friendship of Sir Dominie Corrigan, Bart., Physician to the late Queen, who, speaking of the Physician
entertain a very high opinion of Dr. Wallace, both personally and in respect to his professional qualifications.”
Qualifica*
England,
says: “I
LLACE
W
Electro-Medical * S ur 9* ca * Institute^
Elizabeth & Bathurst Sts., SYDNEY.


Ihe “ style ” of a noble lord, culled from
a recent title-page:
t t T t? Hon - Lord Avebury, F.R.S., D.C.L. (Oxon.),
I-UD. (Oantab. Dubl. et Edin.), M.D. (Wiirzb.), V.P.L.S.
> F.S.A., F.E.S., Trust. Brit, 1 Mus. ; Assoc.
Acad. Roy. des Sci. Brux.; Hon. Mem. R. Irish Acad.,
Amer. Ethnol. Soc., Anthrop, Soc. Wash. (U.S.), Brux.,
r jrenze, Anthrop. Yerein Graz, Soc. Entom. de France,
boc. Geol. de la Suisse, and Soc. Helv6t. des Sci. Nat. ;
Mem. Amer. Phil. Soc. Philad., and Soc. d'Ethn. de
Pans ; Oorresp. Mem. Soc. des Sci. Nat. de Cherb., Berl.
Gesell. fur Anthrop., Soc. Romana de G6og. de Lisb.,
Acad. Nat. Sci. Philad., Numis. and Ant. Soc. Philad.,
Amer. Entom. Soc.; For. Assoc. Mem. Soc. d’Anthrop. de
Pansj For. Mem. Amer. Antiq. Soc., For. Mem. Soc.
Espanola de Hist. Nat., Roy. Soc. of Sci. Upsala ; Hon.
Mem. New Zealand Inst.
The Bulletin Reciter:
By Eighty (80) Bulletin Bards. With Illustrations by “Hop,” N. Lindsay,
A. J. Fischer, F. Leist, D. H. Souter, and H. McGrae. In handsome cloth,
decorated. Price, 55.; postage, 4d.
Deposed in a S. Aus. court t other day by
Speaker Coles, called as an expert in land-values,
that “the use of artificial fertilisers has added
£1 per acre to the value of farm lands generally
throughout the State.” Poor farm land, he
added, had gained more than rich.
Diminutive and friendly John Ford Pater-
son, president of Vic. Artists’ Society,-received a
letter from the secretary of an Indian art bodv not
long back. The address was : “To Signor Johnee
Ford Paterson, Most Illustrious President of the
Academy of Arts, Melbourne,” and the communi-
cation opened up with—“ Your Lordship.
Beanie’s Bronchitis Cure.
■■■ nr-w FAMOUS ZEI.IEIuriESID'Xr FOB
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain o
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. onsuinp
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally su ficient
and a Complete Cure is certain. __ _ '
BEWARE OP COUGHS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE,
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
••Orange, N.S.W.
"Mr. Hearne.— •
“Dear Sir,—l enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
»f London, England, from which you will glean that
pour medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr to
tolds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
and. You can see for yourself what an immense success
It was.—Yours faithfully,
Extract from letter alluded to above
“You will he interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
srrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
nuch interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
iff the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
nipplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS’ TORTURE
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“Dergholm, Victoria.
“ Dear Sir,—l wish to add my testimony to the won-
lerful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
nonths, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
i was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
Idvice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
rours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
Irst dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
im a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
nay depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
ronderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“Yours faithfully.
“JAMES ASTBURY."
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
learne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
ectly and rapidlv successful under circumstances which
indoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
he Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
Kty-nine otherleading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
«i US erl your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
•
“ Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but lam sending for another bottle in case I should want it.—D. M'DONALD, Trinkey, via
Quirindi, N.S.W."
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
•
“ My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good, it having quickly cured us both.—R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
Victoria.”
•
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me.—(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Gienmaggie, Victoria.”
“ I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine. —JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.”
“ I have in. si.ed the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
•
“My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
Queen-street, Melbourne."
“ I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous.—F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
•
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria.”
O
“ Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
•
•* lam very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.-
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” •
“Your medicine for asthma is worth JEI a bottle. —W LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
•
“ I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.—S.
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” •
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine,
but I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of my brief trial.—JOHN C.
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Invereli, N.S.W.”
“ Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well.—H. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.”
•
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis. —A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
“Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness.—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
•
“ The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.—CHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch’s
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
•• The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
•‘Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequent!,
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Viotorii
Who during the last few years has been repeatedly work
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchiti
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ao
countant, Oollins-street, and the effect that it had was si
marked that he has ever since been continually recoin
mending it to others.
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value o
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has easec
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people evei
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO."
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS
“ 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send us 3t
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose oui
cheque to cover amount of order.
“We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day- that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quitf
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
‘ THOMASON, CHATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemist*."
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPEH
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir, —Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“Editor Geelong Advertise*.*
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
branch Qfg ce . No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
The SMELTING & REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
1901, Limited. W^BKS: »-A.F , TO, 3L.£il xlo Illetwarra (56 MILES FROM SYDNEY)
SMELTERS
AND
REFINERS
SILVER
LEAD
BULLION
Z/A * .
” " * J
Assay Offices, General Offices, Store and Sulphuric Chamber.
MAKERS OP
:•-/ • ■. ! v
S. Co, of Australia
AND
“ ILLAWARRA”
BRANDS OF
SOFT LEAD.
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay.
W. L. HOYT, Manager.
Highest Price paid for GOLD. SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, and JEWELLERS’ SWEEP, &c.
For all information regarding Rates, apply to HEAD OFFICE, DAPTO.
“Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical "Record.
‘“Bengep*<s Food’
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medical Record.
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
For Infants, Invalids, and the Aged. Delicious, Nutritive, and Digestible.
Benger’s Food is sold by Chemists, &c., Everywhere
Extracts from Private
Letters.
“My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult
t > find. My wife sounds
the praise of ‘ Behger s
Food ’ everywhere.”
“ If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.


Perth (W.A.) Morning Herald greets
new Premier James in an indignant leading
article: —
Mr. James proposes that for the future the railway
receipts shall pav working: expenses, interest and main-
tenance, and that anything over shall go towards a
sinking fund. A far more statesmanlike policy would oe
to apply any surplus towards a reduction in freights,
and it is safe to say that this is what Parliament will
insist upon.
Thus does the damning suspicion of a base intent
to pay off part of the country’s debt fasten like a
caterpillar on Premier James’s character. And if
he doesn’t take the Herald’s warning that it is
“unstatesmanlike” to pay off anything, and that
the only true statesmanship lies in getting more
deeply into debt, there is no knowing where
James may come to. In Australia a politician
may begin his downward career by homicide, or
bigamy, or being a K.C.M.Gr., and then slowly
degenerate to unreliability, dissipation and other
sins, till he reaches the nethermost depths and
starts a sinking fund.
The Irish Independent on English pro-
posals for reciprocal trade relations with Australia:
It needs but little argument to show that once any
colony adopts the principle now so strenuously advocated
by certain English politicians and economists, the result
will be to deprive it of all power to protect its own manu-
factures against the import of British wares. It will, no
doubt, be pointed out, on the other hand, that the colony
in question would gain by a reciprocal free introduction
of its manufactures into Great Britain. This is precisely
the theory which was worked for all it was worth, and for
a great deal more than it was worth, in this country, at
the time of the passage of the Act of Union and of the
abolition of the Irish Exchequer. Our lost commerce and
ruined industries attest the honesty of those who put for-
ward the theory in question, and it is impossible to doubt
that any colony which is fascinated by its attractions will
experience precisely the same effects as were felt in
Ireland.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies alt
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there maj be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk.' You may have attended various hospitals and had
' medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send atonce for
ALBERT'S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, 1/1 Jd. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents •. ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
DRUNK
ENNESS
. CURED
■\ Absolutely Conquered in 20 Days.
IJiTSee my proposition to the Government,
November Bth, lgoi, wherein I agree to
accept ioo Test Cases, and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home treatment
within the reach of all. No restrictions, no
hypodermic injections. Full particulars free,
W. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
68 Russell St., Melbourne.
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser
of our
electric
BELTS and
ABELIAN CES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is hilly
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electrio
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give, a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it * "ji 1 *
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (Pp^J^^lxES’
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY. r
vxz sdf
CALVERTS
20 per cent.
CARBOLIC
SOAP
Cures and prevents Insect
and IVSosquito bites.
The strongest Carbolic Toilet Soap.
F. C. CALYERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
TJSE
SPOONER’S
SPOONERS
I
V M *
IMTENT LEATHER BOOTS
*' GLAZED RIOS M
’ o,*«<*«*»**
•*|.U i.H.il* »«' l*»<
LI
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing tor
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
LOVELY COLORS.
BRILLIANT
GLOSS.
REJECT
IMITATIONS.
(
m
m
s
-
Mum
■PI MALLS
OXIDISED
CNAMEL. i
jii!iiiiiiiiiiiii.ii.iu mu 11 mil mi'iii iiin mu::|
lljjijiiiiiiiiiiiiini iiinnii mi inn .mmiimmijjj
READY FOR USE
ERFECT
lONS FOR USE
CROSS. LONDON- S.E
NEW
’•fjjptP
See that Asphalt's name
and Medals are stamped
on every Tin.
MANUFACTURED BY
ASPINALL’S ENAMEL, Ltd, NEW GROSS,
LONDON. ENG.
Dr. OlarkaoM.’a Electric Belt
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of "the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Dr. Clarkson’s Re-Invigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
Vigour.
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
i peptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
: 'parts, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON’SRE-INVIGORATOR
will bring happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and Organs is truly wonderful.
THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC.
Price—ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
cvxcvxxzc
Cajjij OH WRITE—
CUT
RATE
DKUa
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
vzx
SAVE YOUR
MONEY.
#
CAN’T
PUBLIC’S
WHERE TO &
PROSPERITY '
LAST FOR EVER WITHOUT THE
CONFIDENCE AND APPRECIATION,
EVIDENCE OF WHICH IS DAILY RE-
%
SAVE YOUR
TIME.
\
mm
m
CEIVED IN THE FORM OF TESTI-
MONIALS AND GRATEFUL LETTERS
BY
Herr RASSMUSSEN
THE WORLD-FAMED DANISH
HERBALIST & BOTANIST,
PROPRIETOR OF THE
ALFALINE herbal REMEDIES
REGISTERED.
A FEW WORDS TO THE UNINITIATED.
Pl?r§qmal' | AND PERTINENT. —Those who have Dot met Herr Rassmussen, and
who have not given his Alfaline Herbal Remedies a trial, may find it beneficial to become
acquainted with the good work which he has done in the interest of suffering humanity for
the last twenty years.
ALONG BACK IN THE BEGINNING OF THE EIGHTIES
Ilerr Rassmussen introduced his now world-famed Alfaline Herbal Remedies to the Australian public at 547 George
Street Sydney Australia was then flooded with American importations and proprietary remedies, manufactured
by doubtful persons with assumed names and fictitious addresses, who took the people’s money without
responsibility, and very often without giving them fair value for same.
HERR RASSMUSSEN BROUGHT ABOUT A REVOLUTION
by straightforward and fair dealings with the public, offering to stake his reputation and future if {few™"”
were not as efficacious as he claimed them to be, accepting all responsibility, and willing to abide by the people s
verdict. THE HAppY result is KNOWN to everyone.
Over twenty years have passed away, hundreds of remedies have come and gone-many of them were forced on
the public in numerous designing ways-thousands of pounds spent on advertising same with the assistanceof the
world’s greatest experts in laying traps for the unwary; but the public would have none of them, and they have
disappeared as suddenly as a flash of lightning 1 .
“THE ALFALINE REMEDIES EXCELL ALL OTHERS,”
and are well known to be more popular to-day than they have ever been. They have not only obtained, but
have retained the <>oodwill and confidence of the Australian public, and have become famous throughout the
civilized* world. The first Sydney Office not only yet exists, but offices have been opened up for their sale at
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Wellington, N.Z., and in West Australia at Perth, Dremantle, Kalgoorlie and
Boulder City, with Agencies throughout the world.
LET THE PUBLIC JUDGE FROM THE FOLLOWING:—
The Alfaline Remedies have held their own for over twenty years in Australia, and Herr Rassmussen has
been awarded the Parisian Acadamies’ Gold Medal and Diploma of Honour ; Gold Medal, Sydney, and several Silver
Medals - honourably mentioned in almost every newspaper in Australia; received many thousands of unsolicited
testimonials—every one of the originals open for inspection at his Offices. The Alfaline Remedies have never been
known to fail to cure in a single instance.
ARE THEY NOT WORTH A TRIAL?
if they are, why not try them to day ? why leave it till to-morrow and, perhaps, lose your chance and time ? No
order so small that it is not welcome ; no order so large that it cannot be executed at once. If you first wisfi
evidence of the efficacy of the Alfaline Remedies,
SEND FOR HIS FREE BOOK,
and read what the experienced have to say, and what the Australian newspapers have to say— the double distilled
extracts from the Press speak for themselves.
A FEW OF THE ALFALINE REMEDIES:
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS never fail to cure Nervous Diseases, Weak Spine,
Troubled Brain, Fatigued Nerves, Despondency, Poor Memory, Debility, Want of Confidence,
restore Vital Strength, and preserve the system against being affected by age more than any
known remedy. Boxes, 6/- and 12/-; course, 23/6 posted.
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS are a permanent cure for all Chronic, Blood and Skin
Diseases, no matter how caused, or of how long standing—Blotches, Blood Disorders, Gravel,
Diseases of the Urinary Organs, etc., etc. Boxes, 6/- and 12/- ; courses, 23/6 posted.
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS completely cure Wasting Diseases in Women
—Ansemia, Whites, Poverty of Blood, Sallow Complexion, Dull Eyes, and act as a perfect
Blood and Nerve Tonic. Boxes, 6/- and 12/- ; courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE RHEUMATIC PILLS cure Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica, Lumbago, Ravages
from Rheumatic Fever, Chalky Formatiosnn the Joints. Boxes, 3/-, 6/-, and 12/-; courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE LIVER AND KIDNEY PILLS remove all Stomach Troubles, Costive-
ness, Indigestion, Flatulence, Heartburn, Wind, Biliousness and Headache. Boxes, 1/-.
GENERAL ALFALINE REMEDIES.
Alfaline Pile Powders cure internal and external Piles, boxes 3/> and 6/- ; Varicocele
Powders, boxes 6/-; Blood Capsules or Globulus, 6/-; Fat Reducing Powders, which remove
Corpulency, 6/-; Hair Restorer, 6/-; Corn Cure, 1/-; Ointment, 1/-{ Eucalyptus Oil and
Jujubes, boxes 1/- ; Flesh-Producing Powders, 6/-; Complexion Beautifiers remove Pimples
and Freckles, 3/- and 6/-; Alfaline Embrocation removes all sorts of Muscular Pams, btitt
Joints-good for Footballers, bottles 1/6 posted; Worm Tablets, 1/-; Headache Tablets,
Instant Cure, 1/-; Soluble Quinine Pessaries, 5/- ; Electric Belts, Suspenders, Bandages,
Enemas, Glass Syringes, etc. Circulars with all particulars sent Free.
REMEDIES BY POST A SPECIALITY.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has made special arrangements for attending
personally to his Clients living in the Country, and letters will receive
most careful personal attention. Advice or information sent free and
unobserved. Patrons may rely on skilful, honest and confidential treatment.
His Remedies will be forwarded to sufferers, packed in plain cover and
unobserved, together with Advice and Directions. Letters should be addressed
to Herr Rassmussen’s full name —HANS PETER RASSMUSSEN and
Registered if containing Money, and may be sent to any of
Herr Rassmussen’s Addresses:
Head Office; 547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
ALSO AT
MELBOURNE—ISO Bourke Street
BRISBANE-309 Queen Street
ADELAIDE—IS Pulteney Street
N.Z.—9l Lambton Quay, Wellington
W.A.—PERTH—4BI Hay Street
KALGOORLIE—Hannan Street
BOULDER CITY-Piesse Street
PREMANTLE-117 High Street
A FREE BOOK SENT ON APPLICATION,
with Advice, Testimonials, and List of Alfaline Remedi'*'


Unfulfilled Desires.
The men who die regretting that so much of
the work they purposed to do is left undone are
generally those who have achieved the most.
Charles Dickens was a marvel' of industry, always
working or planning future work ; but he died at
58, almost with the pen in his hand, an unfinished
novel on his desk, and with the earnest wish to
see Australia—the country where one of his sons
made his home—unfulfilled. Cecil Rhodes, the
man of millions (using the phrase in a double
sense, for among the millions of Britain’s sons
we look in vain for the like of him), dies at 49,
regretting that he has accomplished so small a
portion of the task he set himself to perform. It
is tragic when Death stops the worker. When
Sickness postpones the work it is sad enough,
though iij that ease Hope is always near by. Mr.
August Jansan, of Karabury Station, near Hay,
N.S.W., wrote, on January 20th, 1902:—“My
occupation (that of station carpenter) compelled
me to spend part of my time exposed to the heat
of the sun during the extremely hot summer of
1899, which caused me much subsequent suffer-
ing It began with sickness at the stomach and
a distaste for food. Then I was alarmed by acute
pains in the region of the heart. The bowels,
too, were irregular, costiveness alternating with
purging. Each week marked a change for the
worse. Sick headaches and pain at the chest,
with want of appetite, added to my other troubles,
made me nervous, depressed, and irritable. From
patent medicines, and a doctor whom I consulted,
I derived no .benefit whatever. Mine was a case
of acute indigestion, and a friend, who had used
Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup with much benefit,
persuaded me to try it. I agreed, and found
relief from almost the first dose. By the time I
had taken two bottles I knew that I was fairly
on the road to health. My strength returned
much quicker than it had departed. Befoie the
sixth bottle was emptied I was restored to a
thoroughly healthy and robust condition. I
could eat, sleep, and work without distress or
even discomfort. It is now six months since my
cure was completed, when I gave up taking-the
Syrup regularly; but, as a precaution, I still
take a couple of doses every week. Many other
persons in this district have taken it on my
recommendation, and in no case has it failed.”*
« SWEET NELL OF OLD DRURY.”
AUSTRALIA'S HISTRIONIC QUEEN.
'*JS ■■‘Ss
m.
Sfi!Sill
-V
mmm
mm
m
*
,4'-t
'• i
<M; - :: wnl'i 'VI*
cy/, ,
.. J A
During Miss Nellie Stewart's tour in Sydney she was good enough to
address to me the following testimonial, and I am quite sure the public
will appreciate this as highly as I do myself : —
MUSGROVE’S
NEW ENGLISH COMEDY & DRAMATIC COMPANY-
Under thc Direction of Mr. GEORGE MUSGROVfL
T. P. HUDSON.
Address Reply to
rftusi
JLh.
{QzAeeJZ.
fj A
rb\£snrro
d /&&&e
Mt, kDfzJ's
f
AmaTL
erf - ff~~fLe—
a^jjdC
dtsU-d
■ a&tt&p
M'
‘ rji
a
HAIR TONIC-^
tS the result of careful study, and this study was suggested in the first place by the appearance of
costly and considerable advertisements in respect of hair restorers or hair foods. . Having had
years of experience in the treatment of the hair of both sexes I thought that it might be to my
interest, and necessarily the interest of the public generally, to experiment. I experimented
st very modestly, and found that my endeavor was well received. I carried the matter further, and
entually placed upon the market a hair restorer which has been accepted by the public in a spirit
r beyond ray expectations. By sheer merit, hard work, and fair introduction by advertisement my
siness has increased considerably and continues to increase. I have never conceived any such
ieme as soliciting testimonials, and therefore find it quite unnecessary to offer any inducement to
tain these. The testimonials I have published come in in the ordinary way. They are from people
the ordinary course of life. Thev are not from princesses, but they are very genuine. I he dis-
,ctive feature of C A PILL A HAIR TONIC is that it is a medicinal preparation, and not a useless
rfume which the unwary are only too ready to purchase, and this cannot be too strongly impressed
on you. As a scalp-cleanser it is vouched for by the medical faculty, and unless the scalp is made
altliy no preparation ever yet introduced can possibly have the slightest effect. Its successful treat-
mt depends largely on the individual. Oftentimes some tonic treatment must be employed. Those
be taken internally, such as iron, arsenic, and quinine, which tend to improve the. nutritive powers
the scalp should never be had recourse to unless by the direction of one’s physician ; but stimu-
lts for external application which arouse the energies of the skin tissues, may be usefully and
rmlessly employed. The testimonials I refer to are all of recent date, showing that the public have
t been at all hasty in their judgment of my preparation, and I will only be too pleased to forward
pies of these upon application. Sold by all Chemists 2s. 6d. per bottle.
Papilla Skin Soap
BEAUTIFUL. FOR THE BATH AND TOILET,
All Chemists, Is. per Tablet.
Obtainable Wholesale throughout Australasia from all N.S.W. Houses; Mr. G. Swift, Chemist,
000 Oollins-st Melbourne: Messrs. Elliott Bros., of Eagle-st., Brisbane; Messrs. A. M. Bickford
and Sons Curry-st., Adelaide; Wm. Faulding and Co., Perth, W.A. ; Messrs. Fairthorne and Son,
Launceston, Tasmania ; or 6 Bottles (full course) posted direct, 19s. 2d., from the proprietor,
W. Richards, City Bank Chambers, Pitt-street, Sydney.
The Vic. Govt.’s purchase of the cyanide rights
for £20,000, and the subsequent charge of 2£ per cent,
for its use, is panning out all right. In little more than
18 months £O2OO has been paid in on 41,9900 z. recovered
from 482,278 tons of tailings.
• * » *
At Mount Morgan mine the open cut has
been carried down from the summit to 254 ft., and it is
intended to cut clean down to the Linda level—a depth
of 450 ft. This will mean that the quantity of waste rock
per ton of pay ore to be shifted will be very much greater
than at present, and now it is in the ratio of almost 1 to
2. This work is to be done without any increased cost
per ton mining, by means of the American steam shovel.
th ® s ?~ a 65-tonner, along with a complete plant-
will be put into commission within a few months. The
shove l picks up a load somewhere about that raised by 50
or 60 navvies and deposits it into cars each of a two-ton
capacity. These will be drawn by two 10-ton loco’s in
place of hand-trucking. Operations will be begun on the
N.E. and S.W. sides of the hill-top and the whole of the
oxidised ore body will be uncovered and also a very con-
siderable body of the sulphides. Exploratory work is to
be pushed ahead and three diamond drills of latest type
will shortly be on the job. Two of these are for inside
the mine and will cut a ljin. core 400 ft. in any direction,
up or down. The third will penetrate 1500 ft. and will be
used on outside work. Electrical drills are also to form
portion of the new equipment, the outlay for which will
be just on £lO,OOO. To provide for the treatment of the
tremendous quantity of extremely low-grade ore, which
will be available when the open cut is in full swing, tem-
porary works are to be erected—chiefly on the site of the
old upper works recently dismantled.
* * * *
Mine and mill pay-sheets of the principal
Broken Hill mines at Dec. ’9O (height of the lead boom)
June ’9l, and June ’92 :
Deo. ’9O. June ’9l. June ’92.
B. H. Prop. .. £2436 £2586 £2234
Block 10 .. 697 766 299
Sulphide Corp. 870 987 950
South .. .. 545 476 485
Block 14 .. 796 440 85
British .. .. 560 508 17
North .. .. 234 36 12
Junction .. 622 4 43
* • * *
There are ohanges in the management of the
Sulphide Corporation. O. F. Courtney, hitherto Broken
Hill manager, becomes general manager, with head-
quarters at Melbourne, midway between the mine and
the Cockle Creek works. J. Hebbard (till lately Govt,
inspector of mines) becomes Broken Hill manager ; and
A. E. Savage retires from the Cockle Creek works—the
last, it is suggested, on account of a difference of opinion
as to the Sulman-Pickard zinc process, in which Mr.
Savage still believes. Notwithstanding its big business,
the Sulphide Corporation has no directors this end of the
world ; up to now, Gibbs, Bright and Co. have been the
connecting link between the co.’s various works. Mr.
Moss succeeds Mr. Savage as metallurgist.
* * • *
Miner: Chillagoe hasn’t got over shock of last
Nov. I much question if it will ever be the place it was
12 or 18 months back. Redcap is doing a little developing
work, and in some places the lode looks real well (this is
the only place where they have a defined lode that I
know of). The Penzance tram-line is almost completed.
This is the third time the rails have been laid—and now
it is narrow-gauge. What it has cost the co. to put down
this road would look startling on paper. Boomerang,
Oalcifer and the Ruddigore are pottering away with a few
men. Mungana dead to the world ; its air-compressor
looks like a great iron monument to the memory of
Stewart. Great talk of the 0.K., but quite possibly it
will be forgotten in six months. Tartana, with good
management, should prove the best of them all. This is
about as bad a place as any on the continent for a man to
seek work of any sort. No wages, and contracts at
starvation prices; some parties being cut twice in one
week for making a little over wages.
•.• * »
“ Ham ” : Latest from Chillagoe is that gold has
been discovered here (Mungana). This ought to tickle
the shareholders when they think of the many thousands
dropped in these alleged copper-mines. Re this latest
discovery, already it is said that a strong (always
“ strong ”) syndicate has been formed with 4000 shares at
£1 per share ; and it is also rumoured the O.K. property
is on the English market at a fabulous figure. Apparently
anything can be floated up here that doesn’t need water.
•■• * •
A study in contrasts ! Whyte River Dredging
Co. (Tas.)prospectus : “Vendors feel confident that it is
one of the best and safest investments that has been
offered for many years. There is no prospecting, develop-
ing, or experimental work to be done. Three nuggets
were found, aggregating 4270 z., on part of the claim.
Good prospects can be got from the wash for the whole
distance (five miles). The bottom for the most part is
singularly free from rocks.” Manager’s report; “We
have dredged 90 hours, and have put through a great
amount of stuff, but, unfortunately, with very little
result. I washed the mats, and think there is about 2oz.
The wash is very tight, but I cannot get a prospect. The
ground is very rough, and is giving the machinery all it
can do.” Dredge won altogether about 200 z., and is now
idle and likely to remain so. A whyte frost!
* V * *
Eaglehawk Consolidated, Maldon (Vie.), is a
striking example of bull-dog tenacity. Co. floated 15
years ago by John MTntyre. It has been twice recon-
structed, and after Spending nearly £lOO,OOO in explora-
tory work has just reached the stage when there is a
hopeful prospect of profits. .
* * * *
The failure of the New Chum Railway Co.
■(Bendigo) to find a lode at the 3770 ft. level will be a ter-
rible disappointment to the plucky shareholders, who
have had.to face a long succession of shilling shockers.
It will also be a blow to the field. Manager Rowe, who
has grown grey, in the co.’s service, recommends sinking
350 ft. more, to get into “settled country.” What says
the daylight miner of N.S.W. to that ? He has an idea
that earth disturbances are confined to a piecrust thick-
ness on the surface, and has golden visions about his lode
when “ she ” gets into, settled country at about 4000 ft. If
there be any merit in the system of Government advances
for mining development, New Chum Railway stands out
prominently as a case which should demand attention.
* » *
Noteworthy coincidence that Bendigo and
Charters Towers have, had several simultaneous : booms
and that at such times Ballarat has always been under a
cloud. When Ballarat’s turn comes it can be relied on to
make a meuntain out of a molehill. Its mining “ push ”
have studied their confidence-trick and can play it per-
fectly.
* * * •
“Alone”: The landlord curse sits heavily on
the chest of Vic. miners still, in spite of the Mining on
Private Property Act, with its cumbrous and (to poor
men) expensive circumlocution. Practically certain that
there would be fair developments at Mount William if
it was not for the way the absentee co. has been able to
block the miners. Again, near Kyneton lately, a small
gully was opened. It wag poor, but still tucker and a
bit over was being rooted out of it, and the run of the
gold made it about certain that the reef would be located
soon. Then, just as the men were settling down to graft
along comes the sheep cocky, with prohibitive royalty
demands, and notices to quit. The hungry bit of land
where the gold was being got wouldn’t feed a goat; yet
the owner is allowed by Vic. Govt, to block the possible
development of a goldfield. “ Sheep before men,” should
be the motto of Vic. Mining Department and its six
unspeakable “Mining Boards.”
* * * »
Last- financial year 29 Victorian co.’s received
from the Govt, loans amounting to £43,413 for development
of mining ; 13 co.’s were rash enough, or hcmest enough,
to pay interest totalling £938, or about 2 per cent, on the
total. The interest outstanding at the end of the
year was £lOl7. Not a single advance was made to
Bendigo gold-field, where immediately north and south
of present div.-paying mines extensive prospecting would
be justifiable. The Jamieson Quicksilver 00. got the
smallest loan (£250), and Prentice United the largest
(£10,000).
* * * *
Cabled that annual meeting of South Kalgurli
(W.A.), passed off satisfactorily, but no word of the
promised, div. Shareholders must be easily satisfied
•“tag that they have provided £118,500 working
Soko * an< * m tae has produced £170,000, so that, in all,
£358,500 has been swallowed up without return. Mine
and plant are now working to maximum capacity,
so that prospects are most gloomy. Cost of roasting in
crown’s furnace said to be exactly double that of
Edwards’, and co. wastes money by filter-pressing all
residues merely to save the water. As none of them seem
able to work at a profit as separate concerns, an amalga-
mation of the Kalgurli, South Kalgurli, and Hainault
seems advisable.
* • • •
Living is very costly at Johannesburg and the
news that unskilled white labor commands ss. a day and
rations is hardlj - so cheering as to justify the present
rush Afriea-wards. Even this isn’t spoken of as a per-
manent affair. The white man gets this princely remunera-
tion for the time being because of the temporary scarcity
of niggers, but it “ may possibly become permanent.”
Shearing rates in S’Africa are said to be about 2s. 6d. or
u- P er . 10?- These are nigger rates, of course. Every-
thing is nigger there.
* * * •
Ivanhoe (W.A.) now leads the way of the Kal-
goorlie co.’s by publishing details of costs as follows :
Mining, 12s. fid. ; reduction, 12s. fid. ; general, 3s. 2d. ;
capital, 4s. 6d.; development, 7s. lOd. This totals 41s. a
ton, exclusive of London exes and depreciation. The reduc-
tion costs less than the Diehl plants are paying for water
and cyanide alone, and less than the furnace plants are
paying for firewood, water, and cyanide, leaving entirely
out of account cost of treatment and royalty. Mine
development is well ahead of plant, and is being well
maintained. Monthly profit fully £20,000, or 2s. a share,
so that enhanced divs. are probable ere long.
* * » *
Melb. Chamber of Mines (which, like the
Chambers of Commerce, Manufactures, and Agriculture, is
an anti-labor organisation solely, and therefore should
receive no more consideration from Govt, than does the
hod-carriers’ association, or any kindred body) fell in
badly on its recent appeal to Mines Minister Cameron
against the ventilation provisions. The mild request of
the mine bosses was that instead of stipulating that an
allowance of 100 cubic feet of air per man should be made
each minute, the quantity should be cut down to about
20ft. Also, one or two- of their number harped at great
length upon the theme that the owners and men were
the best judges in such matters, and led an unsuspecting
Minister to infer that the men objected to so much fresh
air because it was prejudicial to their health, or because
they had a keen relish for foul air, or something. But it
so happened that some of the men themselves were hover-
ing round that day, and they were actually waiting on
the Minister’s doorstep until the bosses came out. And
when they appealed for more, instead of less, ventilation,
all that Mr. Cameron could do was to gasp his astonish-
ment and look up the law on perjury to see whether it
affected deputations.
« * * •
W.A. gold-yield for June is officially given as
189,6200 z., which brings up total for half-year to
1,035,7350 z. These figures are from mint and export
returns, and show enormous monthly fluctuations —
as much as 3G,9380z. between maximum and mini-
mum. These great fluctuations are caused, not by see-
saw production, but by the erratic despatch of gold
escorts.
* • • •
The sensational return of 13500 z. from 7 tons of
picked stone from an abandoned show, known as the
Prince of Wales, in the Mt. Malcolm district (W.A.), shows
what some of the pioneers missed. The late Alick Forrest
was interested in the venture, but his luck was out.
Judge Paul (Q.), addressing a prisoner
whose sentence had been suspended :
A gaol is not a reformatory. Punishment never reforms
anybody. A prison is a place to keep a man out of mis-
chief, and a man always comes out of prison a worse man
than when he went in.
Gospel truth—every word !
Wily Tom Bent, Minister for Railways,
has already caught the Victorian Parliamentary
Labor party with a little chaff—not goo'd healthy
oaten chaff, but just common bedding-straw stuff
cut for the occasion. Bent has promised that one
man from among the unemployed shall be
appointed as an inspector to see that the rates of
wages paid by Govt, on earthwork jobs are fair.
This individual is supposed to represent the men,
but as he receives 14s. a day from the Depart-
ment, and will, no doubt, want to hang on' to a
soft thing when he has it, lie will undoubtedly
represent himself first, the department next, and
the men a long way afterwards. A few unthink-
ing members of the party are willing to take
the whole Tory Govt., of which Bent is such a
tower of strength, to its bosom without question
because of this alleged concession. It is clear,
too, that Bent is bidding for the support of one
or two Oppositionists by promises to do away
with the local rates system on the railways.
The dishonesty of abolishing local rates is as great
a scandal as the wiping off of Water Trust
liabilities a few years ago. When certain rail-
ways were constructed in Victoria the producers
guaranteed to pay a local rate in order to secure
the facilities of railway communication. Now
these producers, most of whom are State financial-
reformers, desire to repudiate their liability in the
matter, and Bent is the man to meet their wishes
if temporary political capital can be made out of
it.


Pleasant to the palate, pleasant in action,
and delightfully exhilarating and refreshing
in its effects —these are the qualities which
have earned wide-spread popularity for
cv
“NATURE'S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.”
Acts Gently but Surely on the
KIDNEYS, LIVER AND BOWELS
Cleanses the System Effectually,
Dispels Colds, Headaches and Fevers, and
PERMANENTLY OVERCOMES
HABITUAL CONSTIPATION
and all kindred complaints, speedily restoring health,
appetite, energy and good spirits.
Ask for CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS and look for the Name
and Trade Mark of the
CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP COMPANY,
31 & 32 SNOW HILL, LONDON.
Australian Branch —7 Barrack Street, Sydney.
Of all leading Chemists, ,
m
m
m
m
zxcv
mm
m
mm
u
m
I
m
:
m
m
m
I
mm
m
m
m
m
wmm.
mm
m
m
wmmmZm
Near Hell’s Gate.
IN SUMMER-TIME AT NYNGAN, N.S.W.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A white flame beat down on the place. The
dust, fine and soft as flour and nearly as
white, glared back at the sun till one’s eyes
smarted to look at it. The leaves of the pepper-
trees frizzled as they hung limp and breathless
before the deep verandah. The iron roofs of the
houses gave back heat for heat, and the rays struck
below into the coolest room till the head ached.
Several men sprawled on the boards of the
verandah. Some squatted on one heel, and the
form by the weatherboard wall held five. These
men gasped, and drew their shirt-sleeves over
their foreheads. A number of horses were hitched
to the rail in front where the sun-flames beat;
they hung their heads low and whisked the sticky
flies away with their tails.
Over on the plain the heat shimmered like steam.
Further on, it looked like Sydney Harbor waters
dancing beneath a north-east wind. The fringe
of trees seemed as if supported by the horizon-
line, the black trunks standing in silhouette
against the sky.
_ Patches of the plain were pale yellow, where a
little grass still scorched beneath the breath from
hell; but the rest showed only the reddish-brown
of the sunburnt soil. Not a breath of air stirred,
but the saffron whirlwinds raised spouts which
moved slowly along like mournful phantoms of
the plain. How do they rise when not a wind
stirs but theirs, which is like a rush of air from a
speeding locomotive ?
Scattered myalls alone studded the expanse,
their silvery-green and wavy foliage pleasing the
eye. Away in the heat crawled a team of horses,
dragging a table-top waggon loaded with wool,
the teamster riding by the side.
A group of emus stalked leisurely near a few
low bushes; some native-companions swung along
with their hoarse cries, and a flock of ibis went
through their alphabetical evolutions in flight.
The.grey and pink of the galah parrot glinted as a
few hundred birds rose at an alarm.
Behind the bar a short woman, of middle age,
watched the men outside, possibly wondering why
they did not spend their money faster. A sore-
eyed servant-girl leant against the door-post with
her arms folded, and gazed at the team in the
distance. She looked as dry as a ring-barked sap-
ling. and as slender; a typical product of Out-
Back.
A man with a twisted arm and club-foot lurched
up and down in front of the form, pleading for a
fight. He was not fastidious as to who took up
his challenge, but he favored a bleary-eyed son of
Erin who treated him tolerantly. Two other men
held an argument upon some legal point m steal-
ing. One was intellectually persuasive, the other
belligerent.
“Now, iflwuz to go into yer back yard and
steal a chicken ”
“By Gawd, only let me Catch you, and I’ll
break your back ! ”
A man and a woman on bicycles sped by,
leaving a thin line of dust behind them. The
man carried a swag and a rifle ; the woman a
swag, a billycan, and a dish. Three shearers fol-
lowed slowly, leading a pack-horse a-piece. Then
a man and a boy came in sight, both carrying
swags, but the man had a violin in his hand. The
sight of the violin created enthusiasm on the
verandah. A fillip to fun was scented. A cry is
set up of “ Hawker ! ” and “ Coo-ee ! ”
A limber shearer conducted the man to the
shade of a pepper-tree, and the people about
formed for an audience. The musician had sore
eyes, red-raw face, and a bleached beard. He put
his billy carefully where none could dent it, slung
his swag anywhere, and then began to slowly tune
up.
“ Play The Wearin’ of the Green.’ ”
It was not good music, but the travelling
musician played to the best of his ability, and he
played with great faith in his own powers. Every-
body was silent, saving the man with the club-
foot and the twisted arm, who still did his best to
persuade the blear-eyed Irishman to show what
was in him.
As he played, a woman with a clean face and
oiled hair, and a blue-and-red print dress, and
wearing a brown straw hat trimmed with purple,
paused to listen. She stood apart from the men,,
as one who respects herself.
“ What’ll I play now? ” asked the musician.
“ Play the ‘ Boilin’ Wather,’ ” said a wag.
At this moment the man with the club-foot had
his fist within two inches of the tip of the blear-
eyed Irishman’s nose.
“There’s a man insulting ould Ireland,” said
the Irishman. “If yez want to foight, go and
foight him ! He’s playin’ the ‘ Biling Wather.’ ”
“I’ll let ’em strap both hands behind me, Pat,
and I’ll best you then with my head.”
“ What’ll I play now ? ” asked the violinist.
“Play ‘Killarney,’” said the woman in the
purple-trimmed hat.
“Look here, Ned, cart your twisted carcase
out of this! ” said the lithe shearer to the man
with the club-foot. “If you was a proper-
formed man you wouldn’t be so eager for a fight.
Clear off, or I’ll sool Pat on to yer ! ”
“Ah, do play ‘ Killarney,’ won’t yer?” pleaded
the woman. Then she started to sing, driving
the tune forcibly through her nose to give it the
proper bush-ring:
By Killarney’s lakes and fells,
Emerald isles and mossy dells.
Then the violin got into swing with her, and
when the music was done the owner of the in-
strument took his hat round for the collection.
When he reached the woman he said : “ Didn’t
I see yer at Corkamidgera a couple of months
ago?”
“No, it must lia’ bin another woman, not me.
I’ve just come in from West’s. I cooked for the
shearers there. I cut-out with a cheque for £14.”
“ You must be a new woman, eh ? taking to
cooking for shearers. My word ! It must ha’ bin
a small shed ? ”
“Three shearers and three rouseabouts. They
was all bare bellies of sheep, too ; they cut-out
pretty quick, though the boys did say that the
wool was very hard —it had no yoke in it.”
“ Come an’ have a drink, missus.”
“ I don’t mind if I do have a lemonade,” she
said, bashfully.
She had evidently “had a few” already, by the
scent in her breath.
* * * *
By day, there is too much light and heat; by
night, the darkness is thick as the blackness of
Erebus. The heat is always there. The lights
from the windows and doors glow across the
gravelled pavement like shafts of gold. Boards
are thrown across the horse-trough, and a number
of men sit there to get the coolness of the water
beneath them. Others sit on the wooden kerb.
Limp victims to alcohol strew 'the verandah. A
piano tinkles in the parlor, which is railed-off on
the verandah. Under the window of the pajlor
reclines a drunken shearer, who does his best, to
make a pillow of the wall. He looks so uncom-
fortable that, in theory, his neck should crack.
I sat beside the streamlet and watched the water flow,
Where we together watched it one little year ago.
It sounds cool out there to hear of anything
flowing other than the usual throat cascades. So
the silence of the night is intensified to listen to a
girl in the house sing with her head back, mouth-
ing the ceiling, and throwing her arms up and
down the keyboard as if she were striking an
anvil. A commercial traveller stands beside her,
turning the leaves of the music. Now and again
she remembers to ogle him, but otherwise she
toils painstakingly through the song and finishes
up with a run on the keyboard.
“ Oh, thank you ! ” says the commercial travel-
ler.
“Oh, blarst yer !” yells the shearer under the
window.
There is a painful silence for a few seconds,
then the girl tosses her head and slams the window
down.
Somebody in the bar drags the musician of the
afternoon from his support on the counter to play
“ Willy Reilly.” His violin is on a chair. He
seizes the bow and sits on the chair and draws the
bow across his arm.
“He’s squashed the music-box!” cries
somebody in horror.
Then the owner of the instrument topples over
and is carried reverently into a bedroom where
there is a man tracing snakes on the wall, the
floor and the ceiling with his forefinger, and only
leaving off to ask piteously for a drink. “Just
one ! and s’elp me Gawd I’ll not ask fer another.”
Outside there comes suddenly a pattering as of
large drops of rain falling. At the same instant
the local band begins its weekly practice.
“ Here’s a plague of grasshoppers ! ” somebody
exclaims.
The grasshoppers have come into town in
millions. They settle into the clothes of the men ;
they cover the floor and crowd into the bar, settle
on the seats, the tables, the counter and the
shelves. Business at the bar becomes slack. The
men feel a repugnance to walking over these
things, each step crushing the insects under
foot; so they keep in one place.
The band plays, however; the cornet gurgles
and splutters. There is a grasshopper in it. The
trombone begins to sound in fits and starts, and at
last drops out of the practice. The drum plays
correctly all the time, but there is a constant
rattle between-whiles of a sort of kettledrum
accompaniment as the grasshoppers keep throwing
themselves on the parchment. At last practice
ends. Then people begin to step off to bed-
gingerly and slowly—to give the grasshoppers a
chance to get from under. What is the good of
waiting up when a plague has taken possession of
the town ?
And this is a picture of one day and night at
Nyngan.
n.s.w.
ROBERT BROTHERS.
At the Telegraph-Counter.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At the receiving-room counter of a central tele-
graph-office the waves of life—its sorrows, and joys
-—break first. That young man with an air of alert
weariness about him, looking at you with pathetic
resignation or subdued desperation, is the receiv-
ing clerk: he sees more of the emotions of life
than a popular Father-confessor.
All the troubles of the world come first to the
telegraph-counter: “ Mother is sinking, uncon-
scious.” Mother is really dead ; it is easy to
guess that from the look of the black-robed,
trembling figure that hands up the scrawl. Peter’s
sentence, Jim’s suicide, deaths, broken limbs,
fires, failures, “ for God’s sake send few pounds ”
—these come crowding in hour by hour, day by
day. The attendant from a hospital calls with a
heavy burden of woe—a budget of deaths, dyings,
accidents, fevers; the collection of a big institu-
tion, to be distributed all over Australia. A
body has been identified at the morgue. The
receiving-clerk is the first of the public to know
of whom it is. A girl comes in crying ; the hope-,
less case was over in the small hours of the morn-
ing, and a batch of telegrams will speed the news
to sons and daughters, brothers or sisters.
But births come to lighten the wife’s load of
sorrow. The proud young father (if it is a first
offence) looks furtively but fixedly at the counter-
man to see if he is going to grin at the wording
of the message. He does not —not even at twins,
or at the most ingenious comicalities invented to
convey the glad tidings without using plain
English.
Appointments are made every day, for the
theatre, for supper ; occasionally, the indications
point, for something worse. But these are mere
bubbles of sin on a stream of fate, wide and deep,
which flows through the telegraph-office—a stream
of joy and sorrow, of trouble and triumph, of
business and of daily-bread. A smart girl comes
in with two wires. One cancels an appointment
—sickness, or some other excuse. The second i <
to the other fellow—she is going to meet him. A
young woman comes in staggering. Her telegram
is a drunken scrawl. She is a constant visitor,
and is pestering the man who made her what she
is. Hubbies from the country lurch in and send
messages to wives at home. Luckily, the latter
don’t see any writing but that from the hand of
the strictly sober operator at the other end.
Some of the returned cohentingenters use-up a
lot of telegram-forms before they make them-
selves understood. One warrior made 17 attempts
to establish a line of communication with his rh
latives, but alcohol is a ruthless enemy, and hail
him ambushed badly, and lie was cut off from his
reinforcements every time. He attempted to
explain verbally to the patient man at the counter,
but his utterance was less intelligible than his
writing. After he c-leared-out we inspected his
pile of manuscript, and found that, through it all,
“one increasing purpose ” ran, till, at the finish,
it clearly revealed itself as “ send six squids.” All
else was mystical.
The country cousins at show-time are good
company, but rather trying. One wet show-day
they all caught colds, and, with a Hash o’ bucol o
humor, the saying got. starte 1 that they had “ the
pleuro.” We got that joke from every honest
bumpkin who came in during two whole
days, accompanied by some specimen coughing
and the thunderous mirth of the man who laughs
at his own wit. It grew monotonous atlast, and
the clerk had to brace himself every time, he saw
a farmer-looking man putting Iris head in t' o '
door; sure as death, he would walk up and cough,
and remark that he rather thought he had “the
ploorer ” and laugh boisterously.
All kinds of people come in—swells who are
nasty, swells who are civil, gorgeously-attired
young men who write horribly and spell worse, an
infrequent member of Parliament who does ditto.
“Is this word intended for ?” “Yes;
pens very bad in this office.” “ Must be,” thinks
the clerk, “ when they spell so damnably,” but he
only thinks it. Working-men, business-men,
loafing men, drunken men, bookies’ clerks, and
jockeys drop in. So do fine ladies, plain women,
and occasionally the female denizens of Celestial-
Alley or Exhibition-Lane, who use shocking
language and smell obtrusively of beer or stale
rum. Madmen come in to wire for £lO,OOO remit-
tances. The English Johnny lavishes his super-
fine accent. A dozen turbaned Hindus slink in to
assist one of their number to ask a question, and
slink out again, leaving a friendly “good-bye”
from each to the man at the counter. Chinamen
come daily to wire to the banana centre of Queen-s
land or to cable to Hongkong. Pidgeon-English
talkers get the boys to write their messages.
Others write a good fist and talk like University
men.
Almost all foreigners, including Indians and
Chinese, are courteous, though the latter are
approximating more to the English manner,
dashed with some familiarity and more friendli-
ness. Cowper partially excused the boorishness
of his countrymen on the peculiar ground that
they were free men. They have still the charac-
teristic. Most of the so-called better-class men of
our breed cannot be polite without being con-
descending ; the ordinary kind are clumsy and
awkward in their manners, though some are
good-natured enough and some are surly. They
never learn to say “good-day” or “good-bye.
Somehow or other, no foreigner of any breed, no
matter how highly placed, seems ever to treat you
as less than an equal.
LIGHTNING.


Get what you ask for. Get
Doan's. Don’t accept something
just as good. All Chemists seP
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, but
some try to substitute an article
they make more profit on. Price
2/9 per box; six boxes, 15/3.
Posted on receipt of price by
FOSTER - ftficGLELLAN
CO., 76 Pitt Street. Sydney.
TALKING BACK.
Most aches and pains of a “ Bad Back ” are Kidney Ills. A lame, a weak, an aching back
tell of Kidneys that are overworked. Backache is “ Back Talk.” “Back Talk” is Kidney
Talk. Kidney Talk is Kidney trouble, and all Kidney Troubles are dangerous. Don’t neglect
a Kidney warning.
DOAN’S
Saddle Kidney Fills
Cure all Kidney & Bladder Troubles
and are Endorsed by
SYDNEY PEOPLE.
Only room for two statements; but we have hundreds
like them, and all Sydney cures.
Mr. J. J. Butler, 17 Dick-st., Chippendale, this city, says: “Over twelve months ago I
took Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills for a pain in the back, caused by weak kidneys. I only
used them off and on, as occasion demanded, but they cured me effectually, and I am thus able to
speak most highly of the pills. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills have put my kidneys in perfect
order, and I’ve never had a pain come back since I left off using the medicine, which is over six
months ago. A medicine of this sort is badly needed, and I wish Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills every success. I got these pills at Newman’s Pharmacy, in King-st.”
Mr. Joseph Grieve, wood and coal merchant, 18 Albion-street, Surry Hills, states: “ For the past five
or six years I suffered from kidney disorder, which caused me constant pain. The symptoms of this terrible
complaint were severe headache and irregularity in the secretions of the kidneys. The pain had such com-
plete mastery over me at times that I could not rise from my bed I went to doctors to see what their skill
could do forme, but gained no benefit from them. I tried medicines with no better results. One day Isaw
a medicine advertised regarding a remedy for kidney trouble, and as it was not a nostrum said to cure every
complaint under the sun, I visited Newman’s Pharmacy, in King-street, and procured a box of these pills,
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. I felt a sense of relief right from the first dose. My pains grew less, and
gradually disappeared, as did other symptoms of kidney disorder.”
Such is Mr. Grieve’s testimony, given twelve months ago. This is what he says to-day : “ Twelve
months ago I was cured by Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. lam still a believer in these Pills, having never
had a return of my complaint since, excepting on one occasion, when I'got wet in the late bad weather, but
a few doses of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills quickly set me right again. I had been a terrible sufferer with
the kidneys, and nothing ever gave me relief but Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and they cured me. Ir I
hear of anybody complaining of a bad back, I always tell them to use Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.”
m \
A Picture.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My friend, the portrait-painter, said to me,
“ Who was the girl. . . with you at such a place ?
It does a fellow worlds of good to see
So pure a face.
Her name ? ” he asked, and at my smile he smiled,
And listened, standing sideways with bent head.
“That is my secret, not to be beguiled
From me,” I said.
He swore by all the gods whom, though they be
Dead gods, deaf-eared, men swear by none the
less,
That I misjudged his motives, and that he
Sought only—guess
An artist’s triumph—leave to take and trace
Her beauty on his canvas, painter-wise,
To capture—at his soul’s command—her face
And her dear eyes.
I heard him out, then said, “The thought occurred
To one, an artist and your equal, sir ;
He saw, and, to his depths of being’stirred,
He painted her.”
“His name?” he asked, and quietly I smiled,
While ha stood there with eager, leaning head,
“That is my secret, not to be beguiled
From mo,” I said.
“He painted Well; but, first, let me recall
That God who fashioned us, in every breast
Placed brush and colors and the wherewithal
To paint what best
Could please the heart within; and some have
lined
Their souls with pictures, fair and manifold,
But some have painted only one, and shrined
That one in gold. *
Let me recall : She sat beside the fire,
Her chin upon her hand, her forehead set
With furrows, set, who knows, by what desire,
By what regret ?
There lies the pain of it—to be not part
And parcel of the secret, moving train
That stirs a loved one’s mind and fills her heart
With joy or pain.
Her frail, sweet body, girlish in its shape,
Seemed lifted in the firelight—half to float.
Her hair, light brown, so dressed that it might
drape
Her shapely throat ; ;
Her small red mouth that I had given all
My heart, my soul—and all my soul calls mine,
To crowd with kisses—in the rise and fall
Of that fireshine
Seemed such a picture, so worth looking at,
That my soul, wondering, seized a brush and
made
A portrait of her on such canvas that
No time shall fade.
That portrait lights a gallery not of stones,
By stars unvisited, by suns unlit ;
Its sweetness sacred to the mind alone
That painted it.”
RODERIC QUINN.
“Dutchy” and the Fat Baby.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“When I come to Australia, my modder say to
me, ‘ Fritz Stofel, you keep avay from der fraulein
larrikin near de jam-factory.’ Und I keep avay,
und keep avay, ondil, one day, I see a crowd of
fraulein larrikin shtandin’ oudside, und I go over
und sthand by, mit my head durned avay. Der
vas a row among dem, und one girl mit a leedle
fat baby did sthrike anoder girl. ‘Don’d pake
de borak ad my bloke, Beel,’ she say, ‘ because he
haf de boddle-card.’ Und de odder girl sthrike
her back. Den de larrikin fraulein mit de leedle
fat baby say do me, ‘ Dutchy, hold mein kid,’ und
I hold de kid, und de two girls fighd und smash
de big window nexd door. Und dey was covered
mit blood. Den a boliceman catch dem both
und run dem along to de gaol. I rush up und
say, * Hi! here, boliceman, here vas de one girl’s
leedle baby.’ De boliceman say, ‘Go vay, you
peeg, or I lock you up too.’ De beople laugh ad
me holdin’ de baby, because I look a dam fool.
Den I go indo a baker’s shop und ask de man if
he vaut a fat baby. He say, ‘Oh, hell ! go vay—
de missus is in dere ! ’ Und Igo vay. Und de
beople laugh again.
“Den I see de clergyman come along de
sthreed, und I ask him to take de leedle baby.
‘You rascal !’ he say—‘how dare you say such
thing ! ’ Den id begin to rain, und I cover up de
baby, und go home to my modder ; und she say :
‘ Fntz Stofel, vhere you get de fat baby ?—kviclc
tell ! I tole you to keep from de jam-factory und
de larrikin fraulein. Den I tell modder about de
fight, und de neighbors come in und tell modder to
take de baby to de gaol. But my modder say
nothin’. It vas cold, und de rain did make us
shiver. My modder light de fire, und hold de leedle
fat baby in her arms. Und der vas my leedle
brudder Wilhelm in der cradle just by. ‘ Take de
baby to de gaol,’ says de neighbors. But my
modder again say nothin’. ' ‘ Let me take it to de
prison, modder,’ I say. ‘Hush! Fritz Stofel,’
she say—‘hush!’ Den me hear that the two
larrikin fraulein get one month in gaol. Und
still my modder not go to de gaol mit de baby.
She do not like de gaol, my modder. Der hang-
man live there, she say, und der flogger, und der
mad murderer, und she say it was no place for de
leedle shild.
“De neighbors say my modder was dam silly
Dutch fool. But my modder put de leedle baby
along mit my brudder Wilhelm in der cradle, und
der month was -up shoost when dey learn to cry
togedder. Und in der mornin’ Igo mit modder
to de gaol, and modder carry de baby. Den we
wait by de gate ondil de two fraulein larrikins
did come oud. Und I did point to de leedle
fraulein und say, ‘ Modder, der was the fraulem
dot own de child.’ Und I valk away. Und a
man named Beel de Larrikin come up to me und
say, ‘ Are you de blanky Dutchy dot did keep my
kid for de month V Und he walk round me ondil
I tink he go to hit me de. stoush. Und Isay,
‘ Yes, Beel; it vas me keep de lad de month.
Den he look at me boots und me vaiscoat, und 1
tink again that he go hit me de stoush, but he
say, ‘ Come mit me, Dutchy, und have de blanky
beer.’ Und Igo und have de beer. He say,
‘Dutchy, your modder vas crying; und I look
over to de gaol und see dot de fraulein mit de
baby did laugh und cry both togedder.”
N> s . w . Albert Dorrington.
His Pretty Sister.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Arthur! me lad! just jump over to the
wharfinger’s hut, and ask him if he would mind
stepping alongside when he’s got time.” Jones,
pleased at the mate’s familiarity—he’d never
before been anything but Jones—obeyed, with
alacrity, and the pretty sister he was so proud of
was left at the mercy of Mr. Smears’ blue eyes and
dimpled chin, an armament the guileful owner
had oftimes proved irresistible in attack on the
feiriale heart.
Jones, the flat-chested and insignificant, had, in
common with many ugly brothers, a pretty sister,
and now, with aIL a youngster’s pride in his first
ship, he had brought her down to the wharf where
the vessel lay—not the wisest proceeding, perhaps,
when one’s sister happens to be as ingenuous as
she is pretty, and the mate of the vessel is of Mr.
Smears’ stamp.
Smears was on deck when the two happened
along, and noting with pleased surprise the come-
liness of Miss Jones, received them affably.
Miss Jones had big, round, grey eyes with a
questioning look in them. Mr. Smears’ wicked
blue ones raked their very depths and told them
something of what they asked. When her brother
returned from his quest she was blushing prettily
at the mate’s inanities. Jones felt quite proud of
this handsome, masterful man—the mate of “his
ship.”
Mr. Smears received an invitation to take tea at
the Jones’, which lie accepted. When a man like
Smears drinks weak tea with such a very ordinary
old lady as Jones’ ma, a young cub like her son,
and so prepossessing a daughter as hers, it is to
some purpose—a purpose such as Smears loved.
They had left Sydney, with its attractions and
detractions, bound for the East Indies. Now
that the ship was at sea again, Jones found that
the mate, instead of relaxing in his usual vigorous
treatment of the ship’s boys, in liis case rather
intensified it.
The lad was surprised and indignant; the sight
of him seemed to enrage the mate. 'Jones, with
all his ugliness, was strangely reminiscent of the
pretty sister at home. He had struck-him once,
and the same look of pained reproach looked out
at him from the boy’s eyes—a thousand miles from
her, he wished to forget—the same look he had
seen in her eyes; on their‘last meeting. He struck'
him in the dark, after that.
Mr. Smears had been imbibing freely of the
country’s arrack, and his temper see-sawed
between the jocular and the aggressive. The first
batch of letters had arrived from the shore. The
mate looked over the ship’s counter to where tha
boy was seated alone on a staging, painting, - i
“Letter for you, Jones,” he said, “from ola
woman—got letter self from sister—pretty girl.
Sister, ay? lots‘o’ love, in it for me, and you,
Jones ’’—then with drunken portentousness: * ‘Say.
Jones! what price me as proud father, ay? and
you as proud uncle ? ”
The boy looked up. at the red, leering face with
its swollen veins, his own ablaze with shame and
hatred. Mr. Smears closed one eye, and presently
threw one leg over the ship’s rail. “ Damn yer,
Jones,” he said, “I’ll teach yer show me proper
respect,” and he slid down the stage ropes on to
the frail planking.
The boy instinctively shifted his position to the
other end, and the mate, crossing over on to the
ceiitre, reached after him.'
The plank, creaking with the man’s weight,
bent and snapped, and the boy, swinging by the
stage ropes against the hot iron of the ship’s side,
saw the man borne away on the swift current,
which, strong swimmer though he was, seemed
certain to prove too much for him. Then,
dropping into the warm water, the boy swam
through a shoal of monster pink jelly-fish, heading
up stream towards the mate, just as he turned his
face to the “Paddy” husks lining the shore.
“ Keep away, boy 1 Curse you ! keep off me ! ”
he gasped, panting like a spent dog. Then he
struck the boy, and, struggling in the foam, they
were carried seaward on the swift flood.
Some few of those aboard the vessel watched
them as they swirled and sunk and rose again, the
mate striving to beat the boy off, till they sank
for the last time—together—and so they were
buried. For, on the bodies being recovered, it
was found impossible to separate them.
Jones had avenged his pretty sister.
M.L.
F. MARRYAT NORRIS.
A Parliamentary return shows that 17
barristers have been hopping on and off N. 8. W.
major and minor benches this last couple of years
—seven hopped on to the Supreme and ten on to
the District Bench.
A Bulletin correspondent:
The proposed retrenchment of Yic. railway employees
will involve some cases of much hardship. Take the case
of one fireman (doubtless one of many) with almost II
years’ service—the best years of his life. In Feb, ’92, he
reached his nine “ bob ” a-day (nine hours). Not a rise
since, but plenty of reduction and deduction (the Dept,
makes a subtle difference between the two forms of
robbery). It is said lhat railway men are as well-paid as
other men for similar work. But are there any other
men who have been over 10 years working at the same
wage? If a railway-man is not worth more to his
employer (the public), he ought to be “retrenched”
altogether to make room for a better man. And the
daily work (of enginemen at least) has much increased
of late. Trains are heavier, engines bigger—more coal is
used, and more skill required in handling. Also, the
coal is inferior to what it was, and the engines are in
worse order and dirtier than they were, all meaning
harder work and greater vigilance. The landholders are
getting the benefit of “ starvation-rates ” for the carriage
of fodder. The Railway Department is doing work for
Fatman at a loss, and said Fatman wants to make up
the loss by retrenching the employees; Again, £24,000
(approximately) would be the saving by the proposed
stoppage of increments, and £24,000 (approximately) is
also the estimated loss caused to the railway revenue by
the abuse oi privilege by members of the Defence force.
Heaven knows what is the cost of the legitimate privi-
leges. Discouragement and disgust, in a word, prevail at
present throughout the whole Vic. railway-service.


Used It 20 Years
When My System Was Run Down. When I Was Weak and Miserable.
When I Could neither Eat nor Sleep.
v
Mr. F. W. Dußieu, of Collingwood,
Victoria, sends us liis photograph, and
says:
“I certainly ouglit to know about Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla, for I have used it over 20
years. My faith in it is greater today than
ever. lam anxious to tell every one of its
blood-purifying power and its value as a
remarkable preventive of disease. I don’t
wait until I am down sick before taking it.
Just as soon as I feel weak, exhausted, or
lose my appetite, or don’t sleep well, I
take a few doses, and in a day or two dm
all right. I tell my friends to keep it on
hand, for it’s ready then the very day they
want it. I know it has often prevented
me from being seriously ill, and I have
many acquaintances who tell the same
story.”
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla lias been sold for over lialf a century. It has been tried
and tested in every way. Nothing like using an old, reliable, and effective
medicine. Intelligent people do not like to experiment. It’s too dangerous.
Unknown and untried medicines often work more serious results than the
disease. When you need a Sarsaparilla, get “Ayer’s,” for it is the oldest,
strongest, and best Sarsaparilla you can buy.
Cling to the kind that has been tested for 60 years. For purifying the blood,
strengthening the digestion, and bracing up the whole nervous system, use
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Tested and Tried by Millions of People
Ayer’s Pills are liver pills. They cure constipation, biliousness.
Prepared by DE. J. C. AYEB & CO,, Lowell, Mass., XT. S. A.
YEARS’ SUCCESS
* AS
the UNIVERSAL REMEDY fok
Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza, Whooping-
Cough, Hoarseness, &c.
HAS MADE
£ung Tonic
AN ABSOLUTE NECESSITY TO EVERYBODY.
Important Notice:
SUBSTITUTION.- There are so many imitations
of this successful, and' therefore popular, remedy that
it is of the utmost importance you. should use the
word *' OWBRIDGB ’' when buying Lung Tonic ,
and TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
Prepared by
w. T. OWBRIDGE, M.P.S., Chemist, Hull.
Sold everywhere in bottles, at Is. lid.
2s. 9 d., 4s, 6 d., & 11s., by all
Colonial Medicine Vendors.
COPYRIGHT.
d
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East.
THE BROWN=SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
Notice
m
m
pm
&
W/.
V
¥/,
/
■
//
i
wM
ii?
DAr4cERoUS
jMAkk; If
Wff.
racE
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of tiio
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS
MAGMESSA,
ESIA
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING^
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
DON’T MISS THIS
OPPORTUNITY, if you are suffering with WEAKENING,
NERVOUS, and DEBILITATING Diseases. Our CON-
CENTRATED BOTANIC REMEDIES will CURE YOU.
So CONFIDENT are we of this that we. will send to any
sufferer a TRIAL COURSE (Free of Charge) and abide
by the RESULT. Send NOW and your ultimate CURE
is CERTAIN. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300 pages
price, 4s. 6d.; postage, 6d.
SOLE DISTRIBUTING AGENTS :
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
&
MITT
IFpHMOSS
dgf
dg
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.


FOR
WATERPROOF COATS
RUBBER BOOTS
*«» GOLOSHES
PERDRIAU and COMPANY,
(between Bo, di H«Sssi)-270 George Street, Sydney
60
YEARS DYEINGS'
FOR THE LADIES.
w. O. ELDBIDGE & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
MPSON BROTHERS
(Sole Australasian Representatives^
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK*
sSSR*
i
.
Igplgf
£3l
.
"KaWE
Vf.7 :
m
: ■'
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
For all Services kept in
Send, for Catalogue.
REPRESENTED
IN
sdfsdfs
4 USTRALIA
BY
w-
lisi
BENNIE, TEARE & CO.,
SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE
df
PERTH
and
COOLGARDIE.
BTOCKS CARRIED.
KEMP’S PATENT SHEEP BRANDING LIQUID
Is now being used by hundreds of woolgrowers, amongst them some of the largest squatters in Australia.
IT WILL DO EVERYTHING THAT IS CLAIMED EOR IT.
It will stay on the sheep’s back as long 1 as required. It wiSS NOT injure the wool. It will dissolve out under
the ordinary scouring process.
Manufacturers and Sole Agents :
FEETOH, 6RIIQIIIIE * CO., IDEIBOURDE.
BLACK, BED, and BLUE (in 8-gallon
PRICE IN MELBOURNE
„ SYDNEY (E. Rich & Co., Ltd.)
„ BRISBANE (E. Rich &Co , Ltd.) „
„ HOBART (Wm. Crosby & Co.)
Cases) :■ ~
.. 4/- per Gallon.
.. 4/- ,i
... 4/ ,)
4/- „
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD., SYDNEY.
Portable Drills, Radial Drills, Drill Presses, Lathes, Planing
Machines, Slotting Machines, Punch and Shears, Steam
Hammers, Pipe Screwing Machines, Metal Saws, etc., etc.
WOOD WORKING MACHINERY.
Ingersoll-Sergeant Rock Drills and Air Compressors, Knowles Pumps, Gates
Rockbreakers, Roger Rolls, Vertical and Horizontal Engines and Boilers of
all kinds, Engineers’ Fittings and Mine and Mill Supplies.
WRITE FOR PRICES AND PARTICULARS*
60 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
533 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Fremont Street,
San Francisco.
dsf
Rescued
From Drink
by a new discovery, odorless and tasteless w ich any lady can
fire in tea, coffee or feed. It does its work so silent] y*and surely
that while the devoted wife, sister or daughtor looks on, the
drunkard is reclaimed even against his will and without his
knowledge er co-operation. Send name and address to THE
BOCRABY CO., 62 HTJNTER STREET, BYDNEY, N.S.W., and
they will send you booklet and particulars free,
H. f. 6RE6QR9 0 CO.
Machinery Merchants,
Melbourne & Sydney.
HAVE IN STOOK-
Blake’s Steam Pumps.
Fay’s Woodworking Machinery.
Mundy’s Hoisting Engines-
Empire Co.’s Laundry Machinery-
American “All Steel” Pulleys-
Harris ‘‘Champion” Lubricating Oils.
Mason Reducing Valves-
Ludlow Sluice Valves-
Korting’s Injectors and Ejectors-
Tanite Emery Wheels.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
CLOTH, 300 PAGES,,
BY SIXTY BULLETIN WRITERS. PRICE, 4s. 6d.; POSTAGE 6d,
Sole Distributing Agents—
Edwards , Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
GET A GRIP OF THIS FACT.
THE ATLAS PIPE WRENCH
Is away ahead of all others.
A REALLY SPLENDID TOOL. WON’T LOCK ON THE PIPE.
10In., Ss. 9d.; 18ln., 10s.; 24in., 155.; 361 n., 325. 6d. Easily Adjusted.
E3LOXTS3S3S or
N. QUTHRIDGE, Ltd.,
71 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
SOLE AGENTB.
Henry Skinner,
Olarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 10hS.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FUBNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Bails
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
Jjj-OTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Gable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation i» Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
