

McEWAN’S ALE.
The Bulletin
Vol. 24.—N0. 1222.]
[Thursday, July 16, 1903.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper*
R. G. WA.TK.IMS «*£ CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
UEining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS AM* GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS A VAIL ABLE.
Over 2700 Hydro-Kxtraotars Sold and at worlr
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
WONDERFUL VALUE—A packet of Seven different
articles, comprising Yankee Rubber Baby, can be carried
in v.est pocket and blown out to life size (causes roars of
laughter), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
Coin and Card Tricks), the YVizard Fish (gives the defini-
tion of your character—very superior for parlor enter-
tainments), the Vest Pocket Tubular Microscope (very
useful for examining small objects), the Cinematograph
(or book of moving pictures), the great Yankee Bicycle
Puzzle (very ingenious), and, last-of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Disappearing Coin Trick (instruc-
tions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australia (Free) on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarkefc.
XNEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
710 George-st., Sydney.
GIBSON. BATTLE & o°f» tm street. SYDNEY.
ARE
SOLE AGENTS FOR
BROADBENT’S
DIRECT
STEAM DRIVEN
HYDRO-EXTRACTORS,
These machines have been successfully introduced throughout the Australasian colonies Send g fo.
Salt, Chemicals, the Production of Meat Extract, etc.
Testimonials and full particulars.
All sizes in stock or arriving. SPARE PARTS STOCKED.
“ HERVEY’S RACKAROCK ”
17 Years’ Unbroken Record as a Standard Australian Explosive. Cor. CUtREHCE &J(IN^STSjj_SYP^EY
THORNES
Estbd. 1831,
WHISKY,
3Ei « 33 a. n nr.
fiadleg’s Orient fiotel.
u
PIONEER
LEATHER
beltTmci
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
CL&
Writes Dr. Andrew Wilson, F.R.C.5.8., author of “ Health Notes, ** London.
9 Q
DQh
.9 JO
EROOM’S
INDIAN
POLO STICKS
Are the BEST and
Cheapest in the World.
Well known in S.Africa,
Egypt, China and Ceylon
© ©
GV I (I ( fO
0.8 0
and used by all the best players in India. Agents wanted
in Australia, N.Z., and elsewhere. Sports dealers, saddlers
and merchants are invited to write for trade terms.
9 j ©
Q
EROOM&CO.,
CALCUTTA, INDIA.
Polo Canes
Polo Heads
Polo Balls.
O Q
0. 8
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan • Lamp.
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIRE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THE EDM l mm
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch: 16 Carrington-street,
WYNYABD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Q’nsland Depot—Central Buildings, Ed ward-st., Brisbane
Mining and Dredj
ing Plants.
Traction
Engines, Boilers, &c«
sues.
rm
The Clyde Engineering C°y,
Desiccating Plants.
Hopper Waggons, &c.
fcDE
PROOF
Head Office:
ST., SYDNEY
ROYALTY DRINKS IT.
EXPERTS APPROVE IT.
DOCTORS PRESCRIBE IT.
PATIENTS RELISH IT.
BRANDY
Judges award it Prize Medals wherever exhibited.
Erpcc
r ribC
BY POST, A MEDICAL
TREATISE by that justly-
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST,
DR. RABONSKI. showing sufferers how they may OURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
OURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.
SYDUET.
-r-rca-CT
SPOOLER’S
m t
SPOONER’S
? Jm 9
jflif '•to*. »«««*■
K'tpka, ;•!(, ~ •
i}ATI«Y UATH£H BOOTS
t*.
•;:/ *►*»*« ~
o*v wizHw**** *•<»'
JW —. v** »*» ■ rt»» M AAn*»
*K»***^**22S2r*
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL. CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning' and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and la.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
b'o'ttle), is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EM BROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing’s,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc,


THE RED PAGE.
J.M.M. : Carnegie’s offer of £7OOO to build a
new library in Hobart has led to the usual squabbles as
to site and the like. The squabbles have brought about
the resignation of the book committee, and that has ex-
cited the hopes of those who watch the early struggles of
Australian literature with sympathetic interest. Whether
the works of Ogilvie, Lawson and the others are or are
not in any given public library, is, from one point of
view, a small matter. But, so far as my observation goes
the Australian author occupies but little space on the
shelves of most of the libraries supported by the Aus-
tralian taxpayer. It is strange that the Tas. national
library should not contain the books which the man who
would write an essay on Australian verse or Australian
fiction must consult. Let every man who thinks the
'life of his native land should find its reflection in books
see to it that the volumes which mirror some phases of
that life, are lodged on the shelves of the public library
with which he is most nearly concerned. And let Aus-
tralians generally express a little contempt for book com-
mittees who ignore native authors.
l IV E YOUR LIFE!
There is a conspiracy among the underfed to
palm off the emaciated for the ethereal. We cringe to
words; we fawn before proverbs: we are the paid
sycophants of Mumbo-Jumbo. We are ruled by the
senescent and the obsolescent. Men are afraid to
violate. Virtue is a papier-mache monument that
Impotence has erected over the grave of Hope. At most
there is a thin, piping “No,” and a scamper to cover.
Men seek to do the “'proper thing”—which is generally
the improper thing. Most laws are obeyed through fear
—and presto ! we have the “ virtue ” styled obedience.
The Ideal is the Cockayne of the lost. The weak
man dreams his darling sin, and calls, it “Heaven.”
The strong man enacts his darling sin, and the world
cries “Bravo!”.— sometimes and another “virtue”
comes to being. “ I)o the thing you are afraid to do,”
Emerson tells us. Shock the decorous. Defy the cus-
tomary, and let us raise altars to the rebels! It is in-
ability that wears the mask of patience, and we are
ruled by the unfßttest. Conscience?—the tribute that
weakness pays to capacity.
Strong men and their consciences must part. Each
original act smashes a scruple.. The highest Man is not a
moral being, but an a3sthete. Life for hini is a spectacle,
not an aspiration. What we call progress is but the
primitive love of the novel. We are dying of an overdose
of “ moralie acid.”
Benjamin De Casskres, in The Bookman (N.Y.)
THE MUSIC OF ODOURS
Certain investigators have discovered the music
of odours. Octaves of odours exist just as octaves of
notes. Certain perfumes harmonise well together, like
the strains of certain similar instruments. The odours of
the almond, of the heliotrope, and of vanilla, harmoni-
ously blend and produce almost the same impression
upon the nostrils. The bindweed, the orange rind and
the vervain, also associated together, form a higher
octave. The analogy of perfumes and of sounds is com-
pleted by the existence of odorous half-tones. For
example : the rose has the red geranium as a half-tone.
In bringing together odours of a natural origin, one
may obtain odorous scales of which the following is an
example:
KEY OP son. KEY OP FA.
Fa civet. Re tuberose.
Mi vervain. Do rose.
Re balm-mint. Si cinnamon.
Do pineapple. La tolu.
Si peppermint. Sol sweet peas.
La lavender. Fa musk.
Sol magnolia. Mi iris.
Fa amberfjiis. Re heliotrope.
Mi cedar,- Do geranium.
Re bergamot. Si carnation.
Do jasmine. La Peru balm.
Si pepper. Sol pergulaire.
La Tonka bean. Fa castnreum.
Sol seringa. Mi rotang.
Fa jonquil. Re clematis.
Mi Portugal. Do sandal.
Re milk of almonds. Si clove.
Do camphor. La storax.
Si aurora. Sol frangipane.
La fresh hay. Fa benzoin.
Sol . orange flower. Mi ; gillyflower.
Fa tuberose. Re vanilla.
Mi acacia Do patchouli.
These scales permit the composition of harmonious per-
fume melodies. One may make odorous accord without
employing false notes. An accord in sol, for example :
sol, sol, re, fa, sol, si. Sol pergulaire, sol sweet peas, re
violet, fa tuberose, sol orange flower, si aurora.—H. L.
BlanOiion, in La Revue.
THE AVERAGE PARSON
Our objection to him is not that he is senseless ;
this—as it concerns us not—we can patiently endure.
Nor that he is bigoted ; this we expect, and have become
accustomed to. Nor that he is small-souled, narrow, and
hypocritical ; all these qualities become him well, sitting
easily and gracefully upon him. We protest against him
because he is always “carrying on.”
To carry on, in one way or another, seems to be the
function of his existence, and essential to his health.
When he is not doing it in the pulpit he is at it in the
newspapers : when both fail him he resorts to the social
circle, the church meeting, the Sunday-school, or even
the street corner.
No sooner does a young sick-faced theologue get
safely through his ordination, as a baby finishes teething,
than"straightway he casts about him for an opportunity
to carry on. A pretext is soon found, and he goes at it
hammer and tongs ; and forty years after you shall find
him at the same trick with as simple a faith, as exalted
an expectation, as vigorous an impotence, as the day he
began.
Everything is fish that comes to his net. If a discovery
in science is announced, he will execute you an antic
upon it before it gets fairly cold. Is a new theory
advanced—ten to one while you are trying to get it
through your head he will stand on his own and make
mouths at it. A great invention provokes him into a
whirlwind of flip-flaps absolutely bewildering to the
secular eye ; while at any exceptional phenomenon of
nature, such as an earthquake, he will project himself
frog-like into an infinity of lofty gymnastic absurdities.
In short, the slightest agitation of the intellectual
atmosphere sets your average parson into a tempest of
pumping, like the jointed ligneous youth attached to the
eccentric of a boy’s whirligig. His philosophy of life may
be boiled down into a single sentence : Carry on and you
will be happy.— Ambrose Bierce.
**
••TRAITOR AND HERETIC”
Ernest Crosby, the writer of Swords and Plow-
shares (Grant Richards ; 6-s.), is a rebellious rhymer who
dedicates his verse “To the Noble Army of Traitors and
Heretics.” He stands up for the rights of man and the
rights of labour, denounces war and w arriors, exults in
love and dreams, and revolts against the Conventions
generally. Sometimes he puts a strong emotion into
rough, vibrant speech ; but often his note is a note of
violence, and always his power of expression is limited.
Yet he is homely, racy, honest ; and more polished work
would be less effective for the multitude. But to reach
the multitude his book should cost a shilling only.
The following sonnet exhibits Crosby at his poetical
best—
OM DURBAN.
Army of ghouls, defilers of the tomb !
Since king and clergy rent the rotting clay
Of England’s greatest ruler, has the day
Beheld a loathlier crime ? Beneath that dome
Lay a brave Nubian Cromwell; one, of whom
The prophets—David, Solomon—might say,
“ He is our brother who has passed away ;
Receive and do him honour in our loom."
Remember, if in days that come apace
You see the rabble's devastating lust
Snatch from the sepulchre before your face
Your gray-haired queen and drag her in the dust —
Remember, while you blanch at such a doom,
Her lords and gentlemen before Khartoum.
jwoKFiJLLO ivs tririncXT
Here, permitted people go to shows on the uod.
In Paris they go “a l’oeil”—on the wink! One of the
chroniclers tells how the pestered Mieheau, manager of
the was approached the other day by his
tobacconist (!) for a couple of stalls. “ But certainly .
—and he wrote the order. Then he put a box of cigars
under his arm, and walked off. “ Hola ! the cigars, 51.
Mieheau! You’ve forgotten to pay.” “But” —return-
ing—“you haven’t paid for your stalls?” “Oh! that s
.. . that’s different.” “ A little : your cigars cost fifteen
francs; my stalls twenty-five; you’re ten francs to the
good.” “ Oh, no : I’d sooner return the stalls.” “ Don t
bother. Here are your cigars. I merely wished to
suggest an idea.” (The tobacconist hasn’t asked for
seats since.)
A side-light on Russian thought. The readers
of the Novosti Duja (Moscow paper) recently voted these
the greatest men of the age :—Tolstoy, Edison, Gorky,
Marconi, Bontgen, Ibsen, H. Spencer, Mommsen. Not
one of the Kitchener tribe among them ! Should we get
a list so reasonable in Australia ?
“If a book is wise, and seems to age me, I
dodge it,” says J. W. Biley. There’s age in the confes-
sion. When a man stops to think “ Will this do me
good ?” instead of taking by instinct what eye and heart
lust after, the worms are gnawing him already.
Victor Daley, our most poetical figure, waved
good-bye to Sydney from s.s. Ovalau on Ist July. His
holiday voyage, to last about seven weeks, will give him
glimpses of Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island, some of
the New Hebrides group, and the far northern Solomons.
The verses in another column, to which it ishoped others
will be added, may be presumed to represent Daley s
reflections upon quitting Australia for the first time in
twenty years.
Sidney Lee, as Queen Vic.’s biographer, says
that Marion Crawford, not (as advertised) Marie Corelli,
was the lady’s favourite author. Now ... a nice point. . .
is that disclosure more damaging to Crawford or to
Corelli ?
Another nice point is suggested by this story,
told in the Random Recollections of Charles Brookfield, the
American actor. “Tennyson invited my great-uncle,
Henry Hallam, to be godfather to his first boy, to which
he readily consented. As they were walking up the
church-yard side by side, the historian inquired of Ten-
nyson, ‘What name do you mean to give him?’ ‘"c
thought of calling him Hallam,’ said the poet. ‘ Oh, had
you not better call him Alfred?’ modestly suggested my
great uncle. ‘Ay!'replied the naive bard, ‘but v hat
if he should turn out a fool?’"' Supposing We had to
name anew our honest Gee-Gee, would we call him. ..
Alfred?
If Lytton comes to replace Tennyson he will
preserve the line of literary descent. The first Baron
Lytton and the first Lord Tennyson could n’t agree by
any means ; and it was only after calling Bulwer ‘ the
padded man who wears the stays” that Alfred discovered
that “ the noblest answer unto such is perfect stillness
when they brawl.” The fishwife got in her nasty left
before she drew the dignified toga round her! The
second Baron Lytton—“Owen Meredith” —was a clever
plagiarist, and something more. H e fell out with Swin-
-burne. “ She was a harlot, and I was a thief,” he wrote ;
and Swinburne footnoted a malicious “ Which is
The third Baron Lytton is an unremarkable chap of 2,,
and his published work is merely domestic —one of
Longfellow’s “living poems”— alias baby.
Tell us a neater repartee than that attributed
to an amateur actress, among whose bouquets a cabbage
was thrown. She picked it up, read the accompanying
card, advanced to the footlights, and said, “It gives me
great pleasure to know that Mr. M— — has enjoyed my
performance. I hoped that the audience would like n ,
but I never expected for a moment that Mr. M would
so far lose his head as to throw it upon the stage ! ”
George Reid, for plaintiff, retorted prettily in a
Sydney breach of promise case the other day. Defendant,
a clothing manufacturer with a leaning to mackintoshes,
remarked that he was shocked at the false swearing
against him. Then Beid (with a great show of sympathy):
“ How repulsive it must be to you ! And you m the oil-
skin line , too 7 ”
Lond. Financial News has been exposing the
wav in which The Times allowed its credit to be used in
selling an out-of-date edition of The Encyclopedia
Britannica. One purchaser threatens to bring an action
at law on the ground that he was induced to buy by a
misleading description. He “is prepared to swear that
when he signed the contract of purchase by instalment
pavments he was under the impression that lie was
dealing direct with The Times, and that he would not
have made the purchase had he known that he was
dealing with an American syndicate of booksellers.
Between the tale of Yankee book-agents to whom Uie
Times credit has been “ transferred,” and the tale of
the inadequacies of an encyclopiedia dating from 18/or
thereabouts, The Financial News is making things un-
pleasantly warm for Printing-house Square.
“My poor organ!” said Auguste Wiegand
when he was leaving Australia; “what will become of
it V” In the months that have passed we have had ample
time to realise what Sydney lost in losing Wiegand. And
his magnificent organ? Given over to tinkers, ainateuis,
and others, the protbg6s of this alderman or that, it has
shrieked protest from every pipe ; and in the end it has
been so injured that possibly an expenditure of hundreds
of pounds will be needed for refitting. Lemare, coming
from America under special engagement, found the instru-
ment so far out of tune that a week’s labour made little
impression on it. In this condition it must have been for
a long time ; yet nearly every week “ recitals ” have been
given, and “talented performances” have been duly
"praised in the daily papers. Wiegand knew .
As for Lemare, he was well advertised, and a
large audience mustered in response to the advertise-
ment. They heard —and went away—and all the ad-
vertisement in the world will not bring them back again.
Those who'listen' d to Lemare may better appreciate
what Sydney lost in losing Wiegand. Lemare plays
well, of course : he is a good executant as ex-
ecutants go ; but the man lacks power. . tem-
perament : instead of passion, he gives sentiment,
having no passion to give. Wiegand, whatever his faults
and concessions, was more than a technical musician : he
was a musician by instinct; and he was a lusty giant
who chuld dominate his organ—a physical task—and
inspire it to render surging harmonies dormant until he
came to rouse them. For Lemare the Town Hall organ is
too big—or for the organ Lemare is too little.
Musical technique is cheap nowadays—and
advertisement is cheaper. But temperament and
power are as rare as ever they were. It is
temperament that makes the difference between
Kreisler and Kubelik, among violinists ; or—with
a wider interval—between Paderewski and Ham-
bour<>', among pianists. When Hambourg came to
Australia first the coterie of newspaper critics extolled
his prestidigitation. There was musical genius for you-
to hit all those notes in a minute, and hit them cleanly .
When Hambourg came to Australia last, with some loss
of youthful sparkle, some acquired sense that there is such
a thing as interpretation, and that great composers—like
everything else—give in proportion as you give to them,
the critics talked of his sanity, his cultured seventy.
Vet, alike in his riot and in his restraint, Hambourg
W s comparatively barren. An accomplished player, a
fr.ayer with plenty of nervous strength to give his playing
force, yet a cold interpreter—merely the son of a pro-
fessor of music who had been devoted to the profession
of music.
A.G.S.
THE QUEST.
A moment, by the crowded quay,
The stately vessel veers and sways ;
The next, with gallant head flung free.
She seeks the shining Eastern ways.
Then what to me are tender cries ?
And what to me are ivaving hands t
The pennon that above us flies
Thrills, like my heart, for distant lands!
Among the glimmering faces there,
So pigmy grorni, 1 cannot find
The face of Her beyond compare ,
The Rose of all fond Woman-kind.
For many a year, in many a guise,
Through many a day of hope and dread
And many a night of tears and sighs,
1 sought one proud and golden head.
My Blanchelys ! No sooner lent
Than snatched afar by cruel Fates . . .
But yonder in the Orient
For me, for me, a woman waits t
Upon her island shore of bliss,
All gravely .sweet, and darkly calm,
She spurns her island lover's kiss
And hoards for me her lips’ red balm ;
And, with the draughts sad longings past
And bitter dreams shall find surcease f
And 1 shall be content at last,
My anguish perished in her peace.
Speed on, 0 gallant ship, speed on !
Leap o'er the tossing leagues of foam !
My heart yearns for thebenison
Upon her heart to be at home.
For all my days of ashen strife
1 nothing reck, if come but this —
That day of proud, exultant life
With her, my bride, my Brunelys l
THE BAY’S WORK.
AS SEEN BY MR. DOOLEY
1“ Whin a man’s marrid, lie’s a marrid man.
hat’B all ye can say about him. Iv coorse ; he thinks
larredge isgoin’ to change th’ whole current iv his bein’
3 Hogan says. But it does n’t.
“ Afther he’s been hooked up f’r a few months, he finds
e was marrid befure, even if he was n’t, which is oftben
h’ case, d’ye mind. Th’ first bride iv his bosom was th’
)ay’s Wurruk, an’ it can’t be put off. They’se no groun’s
’r dissolvin’that mart-edge, Ilinnissy. Ye can’t say to
;h’ Day’s \V urruk : ‘ Here, take this bunch iv alimony an’
fo on th’ stage.’ It turns up at breakfast about th’ fourth
nonth afther th’ weddin’ an’ creates a scandal. Th’ un-
iorchnit man thriesto shoo it off, but it fixes him with its
aye an’ hauls him away fr’m the bacon and eggs, while
the lady opposite weeps and wondhers what he can see in
annything so old an’ homely. It says, ‘ Come with me,
aroon,’ an’ he goes. An’ afther that he spinds most iv his
time, an’ ofthen a good deal iv his money with th’ en-
chantress.
“ I tell ye what, Ilinnissy, th’ Day’s Wurruk has broke
up more happy homes thin comic opry. If th’ coorts
wud allow it, mauny a woman cud get a divorce on th’
groun’s that her husband cared more f’r his Day’s
Wurruk thin he did f’r her. ‘Jlinnissy varsus Ilinnissy ;
corryspondint, th’ Day’s Wurruk.’ They’d be ividince
that th’ defindant was seen ridin’ in a cab with th’ corry-
spondint, that he took it to a picnic, that he wint to th’
theatyre with it, that he talked about it in his sleep, an’
that, lost to all sinse iv shame, he even escorted it home
with him an’ inthrajooced it to his varchoes wife an’
innocint childher.
“So it doesn’t make much diff'rence who a man mar-
ries. If he has a job, he’s safe.”-
F.P. DUNNB.
AS SEEN BY MK. DALEY
It was a golden morning, opulent with sun-
shine. I went into the breakers at Manly and was half
smothered in silver.
“ Glorious ! ” said an acquaintance to me, as we rose on
the crest of a roller.
“ Glorious it is,” I replied.
“ Washes away your troubles,” he remarked, diving
under the mane of another white horse.
“ Wish I could think so—wish I had some of my
creditors here.”
He laughed, with his mouth full of salt water. “ Don’t
trouble about that,” he observed. ‘‘ Let them trouble.”
We came out together, and dressed at the same place.
Then I knew him. He was my biggest creditor in the
village. A most genial fellow when you meet him outside
his shop.
“We’ll talk about that little matter later on. Take
your time,” says he.
You see, in face of the great forces of Nature
it is only the poorest kind of creature who will think of
his own paltry business. Yet Many years ago W.
H. L. Bailey—very burlesquel.v notable in The Bulletin at
that time—and John Farrell and I went out to Bondi.
We gazed on the Pacific for a few minutes.
“ Keats,” says Farrell, rolling out the quotation—
Or like stout Cortes when, with eagle oyes.
He gazed on the Pacific, and all his men
Stared at each other with a woild surmoise,
Soilent—upon a peak in Darien.
“ What’s your opinion, Bailey ? ”
“ It gives you a devilish fine appetite,” says he.
I dressed myself, drank a hurried cup of tea,
and went out to face the music. No doubt about it this
time. It had to be done. And promptly. As I was
rushing to catch the boat I noticed how cheerfully the
sunlight shone on the red roofs of the houses in Darley-
street. And, standing clear like a high-born lady beyond
the ruck of pines and gums, was a Silver Beech. Its
exquisite exotic grace charmed and lured me. I walked
up the hill and inspected it.
It was not a silver beech, after all. Spotted gum, they
called it ; but with its leopard-like markings it was well
worth going to see...
The boat had gone. What matter? The affluent air
was as a sapphire robe around me. Birds were chirping
cheerfully. I thought of John Lemmone and his flute. I
met Lemmone in Grafton last year. He was with the
Mane Narelle company. There was in the hall a man
sitting beside me with a breath like a breeze from Gol-
gotha. “ What do you think of the playing,” I said,
reaching for my hat.
“Might charm snakes,” he said ; “but by ! it
don’t charm mine.”
J*
t was no use in paltering with the matter.
I had to face the music and get money without delay. I
was in full charge for the boat when I met Miss , a
charming girl and old friend of mine.
“ W hat is the reason of this hurry ?” said she. *
“ Hurry’s over,” I replied, coming to a gallant full stop.
‘ Get us sit down here. I have something to tell you.”
We sat on a bench on the Esplanade.
■ “I’m going to be married next month.”
1‘ Oh ! ”
It was a blow to me. I do not know whether the
feeling is general or not, but I do know that, in my own
case, I dislike to hear of my women-friends getting
married. I prefer that they should remain single and
work slippers for me. Not that I care for slippers, for I
never wear them, but the sentiment is there. Any man
with a trace of delicacy in his nature must feel annoyed
when lie knows that some strange, coarse, male person is
permitted, even with the sanction of Law and Gospel, to
kiss and . . . hug his lady friends. Of course, he cannot
marry them all himself, but that is no reason why they
should marry anybody else.
“And my veil is to be of Limerick lace. It’s just
lovely. But you must come to the wedding. Arthur
says so, and I say so. And you must make a nice little
speech at the breakfast.”
I nodded gloomily.
“ And you must say that he is—Arthur, I mean—the
most envied man you know. And wish us happiness,
because you are sure we deserve it."
“Any more?”
“ Yes. You must say that you know from your own
experience that it is better for a man to be married than
single, because when he is married he has somebody to
work for, and somebody who will look after his money,
and ”
“Yes?”
“ And you might add—for you know it is true, for you
told me so yourself—yon might add that you were a
ne’er-do-weel and a dissolute person, who' used to drink
and gamble and come home at all hours of the night and
the morning, until you found a pretty wife who could
look after you, and take you to the theatre, and to
evening parties, and to the races, and wear nice dresses
and hats to please you.”
“ Well, it will be'mostly lies,” I said, reflectively.
“ That won’t trouble y on,” she remarked, cheerfully.
We shook hands, and I rushed again to the boat. There
was not a moment to spare. When I was within about
forty yards of the pier I met a man, who stopped me to
tell me about the catching of an alleged shark.
“Tried the brute with pork,” he said, “but he
would n’t'look at it. But a bait of beef got him all right.”
“ How do you account for his refusing pork?”
“ Was n’t a shark at all. He was a giant jew-fish.”
«£*
I caught the next boat. Time, 1.50 p.m. The
music had to be faced. It is a long way from Manly to
Sydney, if you are in a hurry. Fortunately, I met a
friend. We had a most interesting conversation. But
we differed. The argument was about the relative brain-
capacity of brachycephalic and dolichocephalic skulls.
As my own skull is brachycephalic, I naturally cham-
pioned that side.
“When we leave the boat we’ll go right up to the
Anthropological Society’s rooms and settle the matter.”
When we arrived I was shown a lot of skulls, and casts
of skulls. Cast of the Neanderthal skull. Casts of the
skulls found in Southern France. Scores of skulls.
“Look at that,” said my friend, tapping the latter
fondly. “That belonged to a man who travelled long
before Abraham came away from Ur of the Chaldees.
He saw Atlantis, did Bob (they have pet names for all
their skulls), long before the poor little parvenu moderns
whom we call ancients ever dreamt of it. And he saw it
with fine observant eyes, you may he sure. See those
ridges over the eyebrows 1 I should n’t be surprised to
learn that Bob had been the Shakespeare of his day.”
I forget how the argument was concluded, f think
that it was a drawn game. But time was flying, and I
had to face the music. And I had to work for the money
which had to be raised. No nonsense. Money earned
without work is of no use to anybody. I made a bee-line
for the office. And then
“What' Petruchio!” I exclaimed. His name isn’t
Petruchio ; but he’s rather a pet of mine, so I call him
that for variety. Petruchio had recently returned from
Andalusia and Tuscany. He smelt of Velaszquez, and
Rafael, and garlic. Told me that he had a Spanish cloak
which, daring the Peninsular War, had belonged to the
famous guerrilla general Mina. It looked like it. I saw
it. But you would have been delighted to have heard the
fine bull-fight, and guitar, and sombrero and mantilla
talk we had.
“I did n’t travel in Northern Spain,” says Petruchio.
“ Too gloomy. Gothic. Andalusia for an artist I’’
We went out of the office and walked up the street a
little way. A musician with fire in his eye met us. “You
must,” he exclaimed, “you must hear this —my very
latest ! ” And he took ufc into a little room in Paling’s,
and played what I suppose was a rather fine piece.
“ What do you think of it? ” he said.
“ School of Brahms,” I answered sententiously.
“ And you, sir? ”
“ Don’t think of it. Know it, and like it.”
“ Where did you hear it before ?”
“ In Seville—in a zarzuela.”
This was so obviously like the probable fact that I
thought it better we should leave. Besides, time was
flying, and I had to face the music.
When I arrived at the office the doors were closed.
Everybody was gone. I returned home that night with
some free passes to the circus, given me by a friend in
that business. That was the result of my day’s work. I
called to see my landlord, and was informed that he was
dead. His son says he will wait. A fine, tolerant young
Australian this 1
V.J.D.
Boor trade flaoertisemeim.
NOW READ V.
THE WEST WIND,
By Hubert Church.
No. V of Thb Bulletin Booklets of Verse.
Price, 2s. 6d.
From all Booksellers, or the Publishers,
The Bulletin Newspaper Company, Limited,
214 George Street Sydney, Australia.
READY ON Ist AUGUST.
SUCH IS LIFE!
By Tom Collins.
A Story of the Riverina’s Early Days.
Price, 4s. 6d.
Orders now being received for despatch on publication.
The Bulletin Newspaper Company, Limited,
214 George Street, Sydney, Australia.
BOOKS AT
LATEST
&
“Quilp N.,” The Ked West Road, is 6d, postage 2d.
Old Age Pensions, by Various Writers, 3s, p. 4d.
Snell, Modern Suburban Houses, 9s, p. Bd.
Davis (R.H.), Ransom’s Folly, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Le Breton, Chronicles of Choisy, 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Buchanan & Gregory, Lessons on Century Life, 3s 6d, p.6d
Dawson, Electric Traction Book, 3rd Edition, 16s, p. is.
Davidson, Old Order and the New, Ulus., 2s 6d, p. 4d.
vase II rite to us for any Hook or Magazine you Want.
We are always pleased to answer Inquiries.
CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) & at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane & London
OF*ox* tiie LUWa3, tile THKOAT, the VOICH
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
o
A. The Larynx, or organ of
voice.
H. The Trachea or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung
/ 1. A lobe of one
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG
and
Invaluable to
DI N SEE
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered),
. Contain A’O cocaine or other poisonous drttr/
cm nnv aii RHEMISTS n Tins, Is 6d; from the Proprietor, G. HUDSON Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland—post
“ee on receipt of stamps. Sydney Depot: 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PEACE, and PE ETON, G HIM WADE & CO.,
Melbourne, Agents. *


wool
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, and CO., Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN
S YDKTE Y.
FUR SKINS L—.
Kangaroo, Wallaby, Rabbit, Opossum.
SEKTD TO -
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
SYDNEY,
THE MOST SUCCESSFUL SALESMEN.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Commission 3 Per Cent, to tlie Grower
on Large and Small Accounts Alilte.
A GO-AHEAD FIRM
PATESON & COBCROFT,
231 Sussex Street,
SYDNEY.
Auctioneers, Commission and Live Stock Agents,
and Produce
Goods forwarded and received from this or any State. Agents for celebrated Corn Cob Bacon.
AUCTIONS ANYWHERE.
THE LEADING HOUSE for SPORTING GOODS and TOBACCO.
(A
tv
Leola.
A/?/MANILA
fffißas
No. 1 Manila*
Santiago.
■0 » o
*) 5
HUNDo
ROTHSCHILDS
El Mundo.
SINGLE BOX AT WHOLESALE PRICE.
GOODS EXCHANGED or MONEY RETURNED.
GUARANTEE.-EVERY CIGAR SOUND
AND IN PERFECT CONDITION.
Post Free Post Free
N.S.W. oth. States
Post Free Post Free
N.S.W. oth. States
Per 100.
In box.
“PERLA” BOUQUET .. „ ... 60
“EL MUNDO” (Rothschilds) ~ ... 26
“MENDOZA” (Rothsohilds) .„ .. 26
“ PERLA ” (Rothschilds) .. ... .. 25
“MINERVA” No. 1 MANILA .. ..100
“ WINDSOR LADY ” (Manila Regalia) .. 60
“ PERLA MINERVA,” Manila, Fine Qual. 25
FLOR DE NAVES (Havana Reina) .. 100
HENRY OLAY (Havana Oouchas, extra) 50
s. d.
18 9
21 0
26 8
25 8
15 6
19 0
25 0
29 0
35 0
s. d.
19 2"\
21 8
26 2
26 2 I
16 2 '
19 8
25 8
29 8,
36 0 box
Per 100.
I. Hollis
& Son’s
“THE RELIABLE."
Price £6 12a. GcL.
V.l
N?n
:
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 gauge, top lever, bar action, real twist or steel
barrels, Greener cross-bolt, left choke, rebounding locks snap fore-end,
chambered for 2Jin. cartridges. Guaranteed for all Smokeless Powder.
ABSOLUTELY THE BEST VALUE IN THE STATES-
GUARANTEED
PERFECTLY
ACCURATE^
RELIABLE.
cc f*] a\i rye” fl e
3
T
Rifle Aparf
JtrorP orLcOig,/?//•* fiße^BoftAction
(Round Btued Sieet/ainch BarreJ, Wefgti/'ZfrAs
fitted rri/hp/ainVorJ/iding Bock sgit to
(duarranfeedfordOOYOs). Po/isheandJnat
(f/och. Postage onfftf/e, hdo extra.
MECK SIMMONS,
Htxrrtdrkef, cbYDtiev.
YVITH PLAIN SIGHTS 13/fl
SLIDING- SIGHTS TO3OOYDS I S/6
Cctrff/ds Can Oofy Be De/ivered by/tail Of Boat
TO WEAK MEN
Would you like to feel as vigorous as you were before
you wasted your strength ? To enjoy life again. To get up
in the morning refreshed by sleep, and not more tired than
when you went to bed ? To have no weakness in the back
or “ come-and-go ” pains 1 No Indigestion or Constipation ?
To know that your strength is not slipping away ? To
once more have bright eyes, healthy color in your cheeks,
and be confident that what other men can do is not im-
possible to you 1 In short, do you want to be a man
among men ?
There is nothing so penetrating, nothing so invigorating,
nothing that will relieve weakness and pain as speedily and
surely as Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt. It is simple, but
grand. It assists Nature by a general reinforcement of the
vital energy.
DrMLAUGHLINS
■■Mil,
111' 1
■•ill
umistfU
>Olll
titanic BEU
SICKLY WOMEN
Listen to the praise of the greatest remedy that Provi-
dence has ever put into the hands of man to do good with.
From every part of the universe daily come words of grati-
tude and praise from men and women who have been cured
after years of hopeless suffering and lingering misery.
Chronic cases that have been given up by the highest of the
medical profession have been cured, practically in a few
hours, actually in only a few days, for, from the first appli-
cation of this grand “ Life Giver,” the patient begins to
mend. You have not been cured long ago because you did
not use Electricity, and unless you do use it you will never
be cured. It is the heat, the motive power, the potent
factor of life in the human body, and will restore the tissues,
develop the organs, and make strong and robust men and
women out of weaklings.
A Grand Free Book, telling you how we
have cured thousands of suffering men
and women after every other remedy had
failed, giving beautiful illustrations, show-
ing how we adopt the current of new nerve
energy to every part of the human body.
Write for it enclosing this advt., and we
will send it sealed, free, and post paid.
if
n
V
vi
ffi
i
m
p
.•SJaK
Consultation and advice. Gail and have
a diagnosis of your case made ; it will cost
you nothing. Let us show you and explain
how we invariably cure every case we
undertake. We only ask you to call; if you
do not choose to adopt our method of
treatment we will not charge for any
advice we give you.
FUNCTIONAL DEBILITY.
ST. IVES, N.S.W.
Dear Sirs, —I write you a few lines to let you know that I have
received your letter with safety. lam sending' you a final report
of my condition. I gave it a fair trial and it cured me as well as
ever I was, and 1 consider it a medical wonder. In the period of
thirty years I have been under tiventy-four different doctors, and in
the five months I have used it it has done me more good than the
lot of them. 1 remain, yours truly,
GEORGE M.ENDIE.
WESLEYVALE, N.W. COAST, TASMANIA.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.
Dear Sirs, —It is with much pleasure that I write these few
lines to let you know that lam progressing' grandly. The Belt is
acting well, the pains in my shoulders and back are quite gone,
and the waste that had been going on in my,system for some time
past has entirely stopped.
My back is much stronger, and the pains across the buttock
have almost disappeared. 1 can sleep at night without the
horrible dreams that I had a short time back, and my general
health is much better. Faithfully yours, ROBERT PIPER.
SCIATICA.
Angel Terrace, OOOLOAKDIE, W.A.
Dear Sirs,—l got your Belt after all the doctors here had given
me up—after all the hospitals had passed me as an incurable. I
had Sciatica so bad that I could neither walk nor work. I ware the
Belt two nights and the pain stopped. In a week I had no pain
and began to mend. In a month I was out again prospecting, and
I would like to meet a man more grateful to you than I am. I
don’t think I ever will. „ w Trwr T v
These letters prove the gratitude of our patients; prove that there is more in life than some of us are wont to make out; prove that when we tell men and women that
we can cure them we do not disappoint them. Read them carefully, and imagine how nice it would seem for you to talk likewise. Do as they did, and if you are at all curable,
we’ll make you strong and vigorous. They asked for our Beautiful Illustrated Book, describing our method. We sent it them. It is free, and we mail it to any address, post
paid. They got it, read it, and testimonials from dozens of other people who had been similarly afflicted, made up their mind, began the treatment, and to-day, dear reader, you
see the result.
DO NOT BUY AN ELECTRIC BELT UNTIL YOU HAVE ABSOLUTELY DECIDED TO TAKE NO MORE DRUGS.
We do not advertise to sell you an Electric Belt, and when you come for one tell you that you don’t need electricity, that a Belt WITHOUT
drugs is useless. We insist that it is foolish for you to buy drugs. Drug treatment is expensive and useless if you have a really good Electric body
appliance. The reason WE DON’T TRY TO SELL YOU DRUGS is that our Belt is an Electric appliance, manufactured by practical Elec-
tricians, under our instructions and according to our patented specifications—not made by manufacturing jewellers, as all infringements generally
are, and because a genuine Electric Belt cures
without drug assistance. All our dealings are
consistent, all our assertions true ; we depend
entirely upon the merits of our Belt, and our
constant aim and course is to do good and cure
a sick man when we promise our Belt will do so.
NOTICE,
Do not be induced by a “low offer for cash ”
to pay out any money for a “BELT” which you
have been led to believe you could secure for
the asking. Write us for an explanation of
how Belts are sold “FREE.”
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.
100 W. MARKET ST., SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office— l67E Swanstonstreet


SMOKE
The Unrivalled
World Renownec
BRIAR
PIPES
LARGEST DEPOT:
231 Clarence St,
SYDNEY.
2h.p. to 100h.pi
KING. MARINE OIL ENGINES.
Launches built 20ft. to 80ft. overall.
—-
Noiseless Uuderwater..
Exhaust.
Perfect Gas Generator.
Double Cylinder.
Automatic Oil Feed.
Simple Electric Ignition
with Dynamo.
J. F.
Telephone 2671.
WITH THE KINO ENGINE-ONE LEVER CONTROLS THE WHOLE.
M cD£!R M OTT «Sc C O M FA.KT "ST,
30 PITT STREET, SYIDIINnEY.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
IN
EFOR
S
AGNESI
The Physician*!
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
D RIN “ Mll II
GARDNER’S SPA WATER
From our Springs at Helidon. OWEN GARDNER & SONS, Brisbane (Head office) &at Helidon.
THE
PLUM 1
THE
‘PLUM’
This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, ring
. ■*’ and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
re ?iVH e „ T T°, ensure an eas y shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify bo
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOB TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM" RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7a 6d>
“RAZOLES" LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Price
/Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21s.
t Single Razoi, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part op the World.
|3F" Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Bol® Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
) Absolutely THE BEST. 1
KNORRS
Ready-Made Dried
PEA SOUP „
ROOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, 50 engravings, 3/6 ;
posted, 4/-. How to Mesmerise, x/-; Magic
Up-to-Date, 1/3 ; Metal Working, solder-
ing, brazing, 1/6; Camille, 1/3 ; How to
Plat Billiards, 1/3 ; How to Vamp, 1 3 ;
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/6 ; Modern
Etiquette, 1/-; Card Games, 1/-; Great
Book of Wonders, Secrets and Mysteries,
1/-: Poultry Keeping, 1/- ; Horse and
Cattle Doctor, 1/-; Parlor Magic, 1/. ;
Dream Book, 1/-; Every Man His Own
Builder, 1/6 ; Carpentry, 1/6 ; Lightning-
Calculator, 1/2 ; Australian Doctor, 1/6 ;
Letter Writer, 1/3 ; Speeches and Toasts,
1/3 ; Kelly Gang of Bushrangers, 1/3 ;
Book of Dialogues, 1/-; Enquirer's Oracle,
3000 subjects, 1/6 ; Self Instructor, 1/3;
How to Dance, 1/3; Art of Boxing, 1/3;
Art of Wrestling, 1/3; Moll Flanders,
1/6; Tailoring for Amateurs, 1/3; Ven-
triloquism, 1/- ; Comic Reciter, 150 gems,
1/3; Irish Comic Reciter, 1/3; Little
Folks’ Reciter, 1/3; Nigger Stump
Speeches, 1/3; New Tricks with Cards,
1/3; That Rascal Gustave, 1/3 ; Plain
Home Talk, 7/6; Sappho (genuine), 1/6;
Fortune Telling Cards, directions, 1/6;
Advice to Women, 1/3; Midwives’ Hand-
book, 92 practical illustrations (better than
Aristotle), 3/-; Palmistry, chart and guide,
6d.; Clog Dancing, 1/-. Above prices in-
clude postage to any address. Stamps or
Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
Catalogues—Plays, Conjuring Apparatus,
Racy Novels, Useful Books, Private Books
for the Married, etc.
WILL 1 ANDRADE
BOOK AND MAGIC
ARCADE, -
201 Bourke-st.. Melbourne,
ENOS
‘FRUIT
SALT.’
COOLING,
AND INVIGORATING.
HEALTH GIVING,
REFRESHING,
THERE IS NO DOUBT THAT where it has been
taken in the earliest stages of a disease, it has, in
innumerable instances, PREVENTED what would other-
wise have been a SERIOUS ILLNESS.
CAUTION— See Gapaule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it you have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. 0. UNO, Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, BINS.,
by J. O. UNO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c„ everywhere.
MELLIN’S
FOR INFANTS FOOD AND INVALIDS
Is adapted for use from birth.
Send for Pamphlet and Samples to GOLLIN & CO., Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide and Wellington.
Carter's
There’s SECURITY in
r Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
iFURRED TONGUE.
I
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
They TOUGH the
Be
LIVER
Sure they are Carter’s
TATTE RS ALLS
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
The Tasmanian Government having imposed a tax of One Penny
on every Five Shilling Ticket issued by Tatter sail’s on and after Ist
January, 1903, clients will please forward Id. extra for each ss.
ticket applied for, or 4d. for every <£l, and so on.
NOW OPEN
ADELAIDE GRAND NATIONAL HURDLE, Victoria Park, S.A., August 8, 25,000 at 5/1-
METROPOLITAN STAKES, Randwiek, N.S.W., September 34, 50,000 at 5/1.
CAULFIELD CUP, Caulfield, Vic., October 17, 100,009 at 5/1.
MELBOURNE CUP, Flemington, Vie., November 3, 100,000 at 10/2.-
Subscribers will please notes that GEORGE ADAMS (“ TATTERS ALL ”) STILL
CONTINUES his business in II OR ART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, ; i:id that client* can sand their subscriptions by letter to any friend or
acquaintance in HO DART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the application and
securing the despatch ; of tickets and i& suits direct to clients.
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE
ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing will please request
Bank to advise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PARCEL
DELIVERY" CO. doing business with Tasmania.


Cockroaches!
♦»♦♦+♦♦»♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
BUFFON’S
COCKROACH . . .
EXTERMINATOR
Clears houses of these pests very quickly.
Has been used for many years with
great success.
To be obtained of all Chemists.
BOSISTO’S
“Parrot Brand”
Eucalyptus Oil
For Rheumatism, Sprains, Bruises,
Wounds, Coughs, Colds and
Sore Throats.
CAUTION.—Ask for Bosisto’s
PARROT BRAND,
and Beware of Imitations.
W. H.Wigzell.
FRINGES : Best Natural Curly
Hair, 3/6, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6,10/6 each.
TAILS and PLAITS : 20in. long,
6/6 ; extra thick, 7/6; 24in., 10/6;
extra thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings worked up,
2/6 per oz. Don’t be misled.
Our Plaits and Tails are twice as
thick as sold elsewhere at the
same price. Send color of Hair.
Only one address : 110 WILLIAM-
ST., cor. of Palmer St. SYDNEY.
mi
Sp
mm
mu
m
Notice. —NO Branch Businesses. All work guaranteed.
Illustrated Catalogue post free. Prompt attention given
to country orders. Wigs made on shortest notice. All
Hairwork sent to the other States free of duty. Transfor-
mations, entire covering for the head, 30/- each.
KODAK
KODOID
PLATES
THE NEW FLAT FILMS
Are as easy to manipulate as Glass,
but are
LIGHTER, THINNER,
SAFER,
Than Glass Plates.
KODOID PLATES are
Non-Halation,
Orthochromatic.
Used wherever Glass Plates are used
Nearly 20 per cent, cheaper than
other cut films.
PRICES (per dozen):
i pi.. 1/6. 5x4,2/4. h pi, 3/6.
Full Particulars of All Dealers or of
KODAK Ltd.,
284 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Please mention this Paper.
SANDOW'S
Trade Mark.
m
CLOSED.
SPRING GRIP DUMB-BELL
USE THE GRIP DUMB-BELL because
I.—Exercise is useless without will power. The grip
on the Dumb-bell compels the use of will-power.
2*—There is no danger of any strain on the heart.
—The heaviest Spring Grip Dumb-bell weighs only
31bs.; the Ladies’ and Youths’ Bells 21bs. ; the
Boys’ and Girls’ Bells ljlbs. ; the Children’s fib.
4.—An Athlete can do more with these bells than
any other kind whatsoever.
—They last a life-time, and no renewals required.
6. - As one’s development increases, pace can be kept
with it by adjusting the springs.
An Illustrated Chart of carefully graduated Home
Exercises is given away with the Dumb-bells.
8. HOFFNUNC & CO. (1902) Ltd., Wholesale Agents.
Obtainable from all Sports Depots, Ironmongers and
Storekeepers throughout Australia.
HAYMAN’S
If you have a Cough or Cold
HAYMAN’S BALSAM WILL CURE IT.
BALSAM
Gives Rest and Sleep. Pleasant to
take . Invaluable in the Nursery .
Sold by all fl 11 DC Q
CHEMISTS uUIIL.U>
and STORES.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Tryst.
When all the hills are touched with gold,
And every wind fresh perfume brings—
When dancing buds and blossoms hold
The rapture of a thousand Springs;
If it shall be that I am laid
In that still spot beside the sea
Where we have watched the daylight fade,
And all the sunset’s mystery,
Come thou and kneel awhile apart
By my low bed, with pansies rimmed;
Yet smile —I would not have thy heart
Sad, nor thine eyes’ soft splendor dimmed.
I will not tell thee that my dust
Will wake and quicken at thy tread ;
All shall be silence, save for just
Some bright bird whirring overhead.
No misty wraith at eve shall rise
To greet thee as the moments pass;
No shade save where the moonlight lies
In silver broid’ry on the grass.
But, watching from the heights of God,
My soul may lean from that far place,
And, in the paths we two have trod,
Hold tryst with thine a little space.
S.A.
A.M.B.R.
A Ballade of Regrets.
Of all joys once I owned this chief :
To be beneath the bending trees
What time the gently-falling leaf,
Enamored of the scented breeze,
Would dance amid the hurrying bees.
There would I lurk, like Ariel.
Alas ! for youth’s rare rhapsodies :
Gone are the days I loved so well !
And then, again, ’mid June’s cold, brief,
But happy, days, when frosted frieze
Would hang like glittering tears of grief,
Which hardly could the sun appease,
I welcomed winter’s legacies,
Rejoicing in the icy spell.
My heart no longer claims such fees ;
Gone are the days I loved so well !j
With many maids I’ve played the thief,
Excusing kisses with Love’s pleas,
And holding hearts in reckless fief.
Professing much, with thoughtless ease
—Oh, chief of Cupid’s Pharisees !
The tale of tales I’d often tell.
Now have I learned Life’s stern decrees;
Gone are the days I loved so well!
Grim gaoler Time, oh ! turn thy keys,
Unlock this dismal prison cell
Of age. In vain ! I drink the lees ;
Gone are the days I loved so well !
N.S.W.
S. ELLIOTT NAPIER.
Laburnum and Boses.
The gold laburnum droops its head,
The lilac swells its scented sprays,
And roses open, dewy red.
Anemones their furls have spread,
And fresh, beside the dusty ways,
The gold laburnum droops its head.
The hyacinth is shrunk and dead,
The budding honeysuckle sways,
And roses open, dewy red.
The violets blue have shyly fled—
But high in gorgeous gold displays
The gold laburnum droops its head.
The lilies of the valley shed
Their sweet scent over sunny days,
And roses open, dewy red.
One blossom dies, one blooms instead—
So weaves Earth’s many-sided maze:
The gold laburnum droops its head,
And roses open, dewy red.
M.L.
AHAU.
Sweet Anne.
Thy doves are dead in the cote, Sweet Anne,
I have twisted their little white necks;
The star is sunk that thou sangest, Sweet Anne,
Thy roses are rain-riven wrecks.
A cloud hath covered the moon, Sweet Anne,
And the golden show in the sky ;
Thy love is drowned i’ the stream, Sweet Anne,
It was time that thy love should die.
No one and nothing save I, Sweet Anne,
May remain to brighten thy way ;
Thy roses and doves are dead, Sweet Anne—
Will the dawn be desolate grey ?
No one and nothing save I, Sweet Anne,
Can live for thy heart’s delight;
O sing as you sang to the star, Sweet Anne —
Be a thrush in my breast all night.
Vic.
HUGH MCCRAK.
They Call it Peace.
They call it Peace ! The land is bare,
The hearth—a wild hyena’s lair;
The stalwart men whose courage high
Said : “Freemen live or Freemen die !”
No more their breasts the battle dare.
A weary look the mothers wear
And yet, whene’er ye wander nigh,
They still the drooping children’s cry—
We call it Peace !
The dreary plains that once were fair
Now bake and smoke beneath the glare
While hireling bands encamped lie,
Or sweep in sullen thunder by,
While beasts of prey the homestead share—
They call it Peace !
Q.
P.L.
BONNINGTONS
FOR
LUNGS
VOICE
THROAT
carrageen
ora
IRISH MOSS
1
60MSIINGTON5
CARRAGEEN
,C 4
. OR
IRISH MOSS
lU‘ •
georce bomningto
CHRISTCHURCH
"tSßcc AND
SMALL' BOTTLES
11
m
m
#si£
m
m
2S*
5S
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 109-
H. Hillier,
ISO Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
£3T Send for a
Catalogue.
Went Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE t«
buyers of Light Vehicles,
The Best and Cheapest,
H. HILLIER, i3o Sussex St., Sydney
Straight Shaft 3-Spring Sulkies, £Blos.
Sarven Sulky Wheels Tyred, £2 4s 6d pair.
Discount to Wholesale Buyers. Send for Catalogue.
% M /
H. F. SMITH
BRISBANE
21/-
21/-
A Good Timekeeper
at a Reasonable Price.
HERE IT IS!!
A Solid Silver Keyless
Hunting Watch
Warranted 2 Years.
Posted Free to any part of
Australasia—
-21/-
Send for my New Catalogue—FßEE
H. F. SMITH,
Queensland Leading Jeweller, QUEEN ST*, BRISBANE*
IPSWICH and TOOWOOMBA.
r
i X
LOADED SHOTGUN CARTRIDGES.
It’s the modem and systematic manner of loading that makes
Winchester Shotgun Cartridges shoot stronger, give better
pattern and penetration and more uniform results generally than
any other makes. No black powder shotgun cartridges compare
with Winchester “ New Rival ”in any way; while Winches-
ter “ Repeater ” Cartridges, loaded with smokeless powder, are
far ahead of all other makes, when the price is considered.
INSIST ON HAVING WINCHESTER MAKE.
mV vro.<T HIVH POOD
All Chemists.
Holland’s Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
*sg- For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES of THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
CONSULT HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASEB OF THE HAIR.
B.M by -I Chemists, „d by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE
Washington H. Soho 4t Co.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I'O rJKIV'Y COIMFETITIOKT.
WINES **« b* *»* <*»»* SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS. CORDIALS. Sea.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY,


PAINTERS’ COLIC
EVIDEIVTCE
VALUABLE TO THE TRADE.
The Case o-F
Mr. F. DAVISON.
(by our reporter.)
The annual exhibitions of pictures painted
by local artists receive more appreciation
from the public every year. The gene-
rous support accorded to such ex*
hibits serves as a graceful acknow-
ledgement of the advancement made by
students. The persistent and painstak-
ing efforts of our painters have an educa-
tional effect upon their numerous admirers,
who are agreeably made familiar with de-
pictions of typical Australian life and
scenery. Another division of painters to
whom appreciative recognition is due are
those who embellish and decorate our
private residences and business establish-
ments. Mr. Francis Davison, of No. 27
Wyndham-street, Alexandria, belongs to
this class, in connection with which he had
something to say of an interesting charac-
ter :
“ I think,” said Mr. Davison, “ that the
unhealthy materials used in my trade had
something to do with giving me years of
suffering. Painters are especially liable to
colic, which inflicts the most indescribable
pains in the bowels. My cause of trouble
was principally in the side ; at least, it was
there I was attacked first. The ag .ny was
so great that I used to break out in a state
of perspiration through sheer excess of pain.
Often when walking down the street I was
suddenly seized with such dreadful parox-
ysms, which completely doubled me up,
making it impossible for me to walk for
several minutes.”
> “ How long were you thus afflicted ? ”
“ For fully five years I did not know
what it was to be free from pain, which
afterwards appeared in the stomach with
increased violence. Indeed, the piercing
Bhafts of torture which assailed that region
made me moan with pain, from which I
hardly ever experienced a respite. I
rapidly became so exhausted and worn out
that my friends were anxious about my
condition, and my family were in great dis-
tress whenever they heard me groaning. A
little relief was obtained through the ap-
plication < f hot fomentations and various
kinds of poultices; but the ease only lasted
about a minute, and then I could feel the
pains gradually coming back, until its full
force burst upon me again with increased
severity, and prostrated me with its
violence. I was often incapable of going
to work, and even when I did go I was
afraid to undertake the perilous positions
which painters have sometimes to occupy.
I avoided as much as possible ascending
ladders, in case of a sudden seizure of my
trouble rendering me powerless to hang
on.”
“ You appear to have had a bad time ! ”
“ Yes, I had. There was a feeling of un-
certainty and anxiety in my mind every
morning as to what the day would bring
forth. Quite unaccountably, I could not
discard from my thoughts the notion that a
dreadful accident, or some impending evil,
was in store for me.”
“ Perhaps you are naturally nervous ? ”
“No ; quite the reverse. Before my
sickness came on I did not know wh?t fear
or nervousness were. I could go out in the
dead of night and confront any danger with-
out the least hesitation. But now my
nerves were completely shattered. I was
afraid of my own shadow. Naturally
enough I sought medical advice, a doctor
visiting and prescribing for me regularly.
This occurred when I was living in Queens-
land, and I don’t mind telling you that by
this time I was reduced to a skeleton
through my inability to eat, which I very
seldom did. I had no appetite whatever ;
but, knowing that if I did not eat a little
to keep body and soul together I would
soon die of starvation, I used to try and
brace myself up when meal times came
round, and take my seat at the table.
Directly the food was placed thereon I was
overcome with a tsrribi® sickness si the
stomach. Hurriedly vacating my chair, I
used to go outside, where continual retch-
ing brought on insufferable headaches and
giddiness. By way of variety my stomach
occasionally wanted food. I felt as though
I could really enjoy a little, but a few
minutes after swallowing anything I had
severe pains in the chest, and swelling, be-
sides acute sensations under my shoulders,
ifc was a very rare thing to have a night’s
sleep, although I went to bed every evening
feeling quite exhausted and done up. I
was accustomed to rise in the morning with
a nasty taste in the mouth, after turning
restlessly about nearly all night, with my
limbs aching with intense weariness, and
the pains in my side still gnawing away,
As though to a id their quota to the evils I
have already mentioned, my throat was
parched and dry, and constipation was
another trouble. A feeling ot drowsiness
never left me, and, combined with my
general weakness, I appeared like a man
half dead. The prospect of getting through
a day’s work in this condition was not a
very bright one, and many a time I had to
come home unable to continue my work. I
really thought I was done for.”
“ What gave you that impression ?”
“Because my doctor could not cure me.
I then came to New South Wales, and en-
gaged another doctor, under whose care I
remained with the same unsatisfactory re-
sults till my hopes were exhausted. The
medicines prescribed by both doctors were
utterly useless in every respect.”
“ Did you consult a third doctor ? ”
“No; I managed without. One of my
mates, who had suffered as I was suffering,
told me he was cured by Clements Tonic,
even when his medical adviser had failed.
That hint was good enough for me. I
bought some Clements Tonic, and when I
had taken three bottles I felt quite a
different man. My pains in the sole were
much easier, and all the other ailments bad
been quite cured. Appetite, sleep, and
strength returned in a short time, and de-
spondency gave way to cheerfulness Three
more bottles of Clements Tonic cured me in
every detail, and I have not been troubled
with my old sickness since, and I give you
my authority to publish these remarks
simply out of gratitude, for I trust a relation
of my sufferings and cure may help other
poor sufferers on the way to recovery.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Francis Davison, of 27 Wyndham-street, Alex-
andria, in the State of New South Wales, Common-
wealth of Australia, do sot mnly and sincerely de-
clare that I have carefully read the annexed
document, consisting of three folios, and con-
secutively numbered from one to three, and that it
contains and is a true and faithful account of my
illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also con’ains
my full permission to publish in any way my state-
m ‘ en t, B _which I give voluntarily, without receiv-
ing any payment; and I make this solemn declira-
tion conscientiously believing the same to be true,
and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act,
1900.
Subscribed and declared at Alexandria, tins mm m
day of April, one thousand nine hundred and two,
before me,
W. B. CARTER, J.P.
S. FREEMAN SONS V™™.
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPPCTA T/HES:
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMANS PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WTNTABD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
CLOTH, 300 PAGES.
BY SIXTY BULLETIN WRITERS. PRICE, 4s. 6d.
From all Booksellers, or the Publishers,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 214 Georgest., Sydney, Australia .
FOlft THE BUSH WOHKE9
A SOOTHING BALM and EMBROCATION. Will be found
a CERTAIN CURE for Cuts, Burns, Boils, Barcoo,
Eczema, Sprains, Ringworm, Sore Feet, Piles all
forms of Skin Disease or Muscular Affections, etc.
From all Chemists, 1/6 per Tin. A FREE SAMPLE will
be sent you. Address the
ZAM-BUK CO., 39 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Enclose Penny Stamp for postage, and mention this paper.
JJOTICE TO IffIi&I.BOURNB VISITORS,
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 10US.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PI,ANT OP TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen."
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separate'y examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM
THE MOST KUTEniCCS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTINGw
G DC 0 A
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
DEBILITATED
"WEAK, NERVOUS SUFFERER. Let us send you a
' ' trial course of our CONCENTRATED BOTANIC
REMEDIES FREE OF CHARGE. You will be more
than pleased with the result, and you will show your
appreciation of our valuable treatment by persevering
in its use fora few weeks until you are PERMANENTLY
CURED. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
DRUNKcured
Absolutely Conquered In 20 Days.
my proposition to the Government,
November Bth, 1901, wherein I agree to
accept ioo Test Cases, and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home treatment
ivithin the reach of all. No restrictions, no
hypodermic injections. Full particulars free.
W. LANGSTON, M.R.c.s.. Bag.,
129 Collins-st., Melbourne.
RUPTURE
I'hrowaway
CURED
without opera-
tion or pain, no detention from work,
or dependence upon Trusses. The
only humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
Treatise No. 10. Address:
SURGEON LANGSTON, m.r.c.s., eng.,
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
Dr. Langston’s Representative will visit
Newcastle, June 6th to 20th ; Bathurst,
June 23rd to 29th ; Orange, July Ist to 6th ;
Dubbo, July 7th to 13th.
"UIHq
ey ts
JAYNE S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE WORSTCOUGHS.
ALL CHEMISTS
sF%.
PER BOX
> AT 3/6
FOR
Anemia,
Poverty of Blood
and Weakness
from Whatever Cause.
TABLETS
Refreshing and Agreeable.
CALVERTS
CARBOLIC
TOILET SOAP.
A pleasant Antiseptic Soap (containing 10%
pure Carbolic Acid). Should be used regularly
to improve the skin and complexion and prevent
infection.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
OorFuicl '{lights
t/Csa.LUuj JnfoLnts
TRY ' **
’S
&he
FBesl
Refuse a////n/taf/Qns~
Saljs/yir»iJ. Strengthening. Soothing for Infants
/greeablc.Dilestitlc.Mcprishing
AGfflfS FOR SYD/VFK
SAYFRS AUPORr (ScPOfTFR
FUDGE'S FOOD MILLS. LONDON. Enc.
CURED INSTANTLY BY
BUNTER’S
Prevents Decay, Saves
Extraction, Sleepless Night*
Prevented.
Neuralgic Head aches & all Nerve
Pains removed by BUNTER’S
NEB VINE. Of all Stores.
NERVINE
“Ab a specific for Tooth ache it has no equal. I have
used it successfully for years.”—Prof, W. Wilson, M.D,
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’Sworsdell’s PILLS
Arc a certain Cure (or Indigestion, Biliousness, Head ache!
Dyspepsia, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, Ac,
Of all Stores.
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIO
KELTS and
A J J 1 J LIA NCES
A trial of 30 days before
payment, whioh is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Eleotrio
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTICE. —Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH oEaES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address
German Electric Appliance Agency
Elizabeth .Street, SYDNEY.
WEBSTER’S
CARBOLIC
TOOTH
POWDER
Large Tins, 6d.
All chemists.
.Jt
Equal to any
imported article.
Cleans the teeth not merely hy fric-
tion but antiseptically. It keeps them
bright, pure, healthy and strong.
If your chemist or storekeeper does not stock
it—take no other, but send 7d. in stands direct
to us for a tin.
ALEXANDER J. WEBSTER,
SOLE PROPRIETOR cS MANUFACTURER,
177 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Free for Asking 1 .
WRITE to us and we will forward you our scientific
book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong- and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Writ*
toG. Sr-Bcmc, Elizabeth Street, North Melbourne.


Ml-OUT v
PILLS.
FOR GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO,
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Procjt & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
Superfluous Hair.
TX7E have a permanent, quite harmless and never-failing
remedy. Ladies who suffer from hairs upon the
face, arms, neck, etc., will find this remedy a great boon.
3s. 9d. per packet.
AMERICAN TOILET COMPANY,
91 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
I Reader, why not he able to nse the
most mysterious and powerful force o£
nature? By my method you can learn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all the many marvellous
that are possible to the Hypnotist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain ; win reluctant affection,
(gratify jour ambitions, and produco
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about.it. I have
just issued in book f< rm a mammoth
i illustrated LESSON OF Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explains
the mysteries and secrets
of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever published. For a short
time I wi 1 send this magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed on
receipt of 6d. (stamps) to cover
postage. Order to-day and learn
to Hypnotize. It is acl ance of J
a life-time. Address— '
m
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
If
you
are
1 suffering from
exhaustion, Vari-
cocele, Wasting,
Weakness, enclose 6 stamps (postage and
packing), and I will send a trial bottle of my
REMEDY, FREE.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING
to try my Life Syrup Remedies, which
give back strengthofbody and brain, renewed
vigor, and development of the vital organs;
not a free prescription dodge, but a trial of
my wonderful remedy free for the asking.
Professor h. read,
165 Collins Street, Melbourne.
VEGETABLE
THE ROAD
TO HEALTH IS
PAVED WITH
GOOD
DIGESTION.
Charcoal
Speedily cures Acidity, Flatulence, Heartburn,
Impure Breath, Indigestion, Diarrhoea, &o. It
destroys all disease germs, and,absorbing all impuri-
ties in the stomach and bowels,gives a healthy tone
to the whole system. Wards oft all attacks ot Typhoid
and other Fevers. Prevents many an illness.
BRAGG’S PORE CHARCOAL POWDER In
Bottles; LOZENGES and BISCUITS in Tins
pleasant to take). Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Waving had complaints of the injury done by other
preparatiQns.please see that each Bottle or Tin bears
tne Trade Mark 4 in monogram,’ on the wrapper.
OF INTEREST to MEN
J)EAR SIR, —I have been cured of weakness and De-
bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
ue pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHURST,
street, Sydney.
the ballet girl
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, 1s
The Life, Adventures
and Confesssions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, is.
'«w<i stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and yovelties.
Madame Panza,
BOX 913, C.P.0., SYDNEY.
Engine man’s master key.-aii subjects
relating to Examinations for Certificates of Com-
petency in all the States. 365 Pages, 106 Illustrations ;
os. od. posted, by L. F. 11. SCHNABEL, Consulting
ijfineer, 413 Bourke-street, Melbourne. Also COLE’S,
“•‘bourne. Adelaide, Sydney.
SAVE YOUR HAIR
With Shampoos of Cuticura Soap
and Light Dressings
of Cuticura.
This treatment at once stops falling hair,
removes crusts, scales, and dandruff, soothes
irritated, itching surfaces, stimulates hair folli-
cles, supplies the roots with energy and nourish-
ment, and makes the hair grow upon a sweet,
wholesome, healthy scalp when all else fails.
MILLIONS USE CUTICURA SUAP
Assisted by Cuticura Ointment, for preserving, purifying, and beautify-
ing the skin, for cleansing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the
stopping of falling hair, for softening, whitening, and soothing red, rough,
and sore hands, for baby rashes, itchings, and chafings, in the form of baths
for annoying irritations and inflammations, or too free or offensive perspi-
ration, and for all the purposes of the toilet, as well as by millions of women
in the form of washes for ulcerative weaknesses, and many sanative, antisep-
tic purposes which readily suggest themselves to women and mothers.
COMPLETE TREATMENT FOR EVERY HUMOUR,
Consisting of Cuticura Soap, to cleanse the skin of crusts and scales, and soften the
thickened cuticle; Cuticura Ointment, to instantly allay Itching, inflammation, and
irritation, and soothe and heal; and Cuticura Resolvent Pills, to cool and cleanse the
blood. A Single Set is often sufficient to cure the most torturing, disfiguring, itching,
burning, and scaly skin, scalp, and blood humours, with loss of hair, when all else fails.
Sold throughout the world. Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co., Sydney. British Depot:
27-28, Charterhouse Sq., London. French Depot: 5 Rue de la Paix, Paris. Potter Drug
And Ciiem. CORP., Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT PILLS
(Chocolate Coated) are a new, tasteless,
odourless, economical substitute for the cele-
brated liquid Cuticuka Resolvent, as well as for all other blood purifiers and humour
cures. Put up in screw-cap pocket vials, containing 60 doses. Cuticura Pills are
alterative, antiseptic, tonic, digestive, and the purest, sweetest, most successful and
economical of blood and skin purifiers, humour cures, and tonic-digestives.
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regain Health?
Go to the Fountain Head
and consult OLD SURGEON LANGSTON, memberof the Royal
College of Surgeons, Eng., who will cure you. Forty years’
practice as a Specialist is sufficient guarantee of the doctor’s
ability. I do not seek to demonstrate a theory. I have no time for that,
for I am accomplishing facts. I am curing thousands who have
given up all hope of life. I am bringing joy and happiness
into hundreds of homes. If you suffer from kidney and liver disease,
lung, stomach or heart trouble, consumption, debility, insomnia, blood
poison, Varicocele, headaches, backache, nervousness, or any disease
or weakness of the vital organs, come to me and I will cure you
and make you well. The people whom I have snatched from the very
jaws of death and have lifted up and given strength and health are
living witnesses of the everlasting power of my treatment. It
matters not how long you have been afflicted; it matters not how
hopeless or helpless you may be ; it matters not what doctors have
said or what remedies have failed to cure you ; it matters not whether
you have faith.
X WILL CURE YOU.
A NEW TREATMENT AND GUARANTEED CURE FOR VARICOCELE WITHOUT OPERATION.
Be the Equal of Your Fellow Man.
If you are a sufferer from any nervous, chronic Blood or Skin diseases, or interested in the subject of
Neurasthi nia and associated evils, write at once for book of information, blank forms, etc., and have the
old doctor diagnose your case.
All communications strictly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, 129 Collins Street, Melbourne
Established in Melbourne 1886.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
SMBRACIHQ
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 86 Ohromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Paget
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou.
6and questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1902 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for 'all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; is gd post
Practical PALMisTßY.(latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards illus.
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted!
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk Is 9d
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is. ’
Tiie Art of Wrestling, post Is. Hoyle’s Games, post 2/6
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals', 3s 6d. !
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted. Camille, Is 3d. I
Secret History of the Court of England, 1 6 post free!
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted. i
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. Tiie Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Ciiiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free. !
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), la 6d posted.
Ciievasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court op London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted. Sappho, Is.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
The Wife’s Handbook, Is 2d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Usb It, Is 6d post
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Completh Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is 3d.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s posted.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music comple e Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d posted.
Send for my Illustrated Big: Book
Catalogue post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
ASTHMA and BRONCHITIS CURED
By using CASE’S ASTHMA CURE, made from the Queensland Asthma
Plant. Relieves instantly, eventually Cures. 4s. 6d. large bottle}
Posted to any State, ss.
J. W. CASE, Chemist, 140 Wickham-st., Brisbane.
Please mention Bulletin when writing.
r
Powell’s Balsam
of Aniseed.
SAFE AND RELIABLE—
Gives Immediate Relief.
muaiiua lit uic x IllUdl, WIIU.II UO"
privo6 so many of rest during the night. It also
Strengthens the Voice and Cures Hoarseness.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeeper
But see the well-known Trade Mark—-Lion, Net
and Mouse—is on each wrapper.
Prepared only by Thomas Powell, Ltd.,
Blackfriars, London, S.E.
J
EVERY WOMAN
is interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new FEMALE SYRINGE
Injection and Suction. The best,
safest and most convenient.
It Cleanses Instantly.
H
If your druggist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated Book, sent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies. ' Endorsed by Physicians.
Times Building, N.Y.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS-
THE MARVEL CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
CAMDEN BUILDING,
418 George St., Sydney, N.S.W,
LADY SPECIALIST IN ATTENDANCE.
Postal Address, Box 623, G.P.0., Sydney.
Write for Booklet. Sent free, sealed.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by using
RIGORD' s
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS, DEBILITY,
VARICOCELE, etc.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life affords relief and permanently
cures all who suffer from wasting- and withering of the
nervous tissues; restores Energy, Strength and
Vitality to the most weak and shattered constitutions
(no matter from what cause) and regenerates all the
important elements of the human frame.
Price 128., or four quantities in one, 365. Freight extra,
Is. and Is. 6d. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope.
Agents for Australasia— PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen Bt.,
Melbourne; N.S.W.— Faulting & Co., 16 O’Connell
St., Sydney ; Newcastle, Adelaide and Perth.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout, Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstkk & Truman, of
71 Old Keut Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all '
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists 1
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy* 1
all Parasites of Head or Body. i
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN'S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstkk & Truman, ,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all <
Chemists in the Australian Colonies. <
Keftrtnct?_ throughout Gnat Britain and CtlonUt.
ASTHMA
taken from tha System.
Nothing remains which can
i produce an attack. Yon can
eat, sleep and stand exposure without slightest return of
symptoms. Cured to stay cured, by elimination and re-
construction. Appetite improved; blood enriched; nerves
strengthened; whole system built up; life made enjoyable.
Reliefs, or change of climate no longer needed. We havo
treated over 52,000 Asthma and Hay Fever patients. Ee*
tablished 1883. Explanatory BOOK 32c post FREE.
Address: Dr. P. Harold Hayes’ Asthmatic Institute*
Buffalo, N. Y., U. 8. A.
ASTHMACURE
GRIMMS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Fop Asthmatic people who suffer from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, anti DIFFI-
CULTY In EXPECTORATION.
Grimault's Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
ORIMAULT A Co., Paris. Sol* by all ObemtaK


Hennessy’s
Hold the
Largest
Stock
on
Earth
of
Genuine Bottled
Cognac
Brandy.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
&SS
is 3
J
AARON’S
Exchange Hotel Co.,
SYDNEY.
The. system of paying for Room only and
Meals as required is adopted here.
£3 3s. per Week
9s. per Day
W. W. AIKEN, Manager,
30 Years in the Establishment.
GORDON MARE, Secretary.
Tisit>oi*s to tKe Old Country
SOUTH KENSINGTON
HOTEL
Queen's Gtate ®lerr&.ce 9 London,S.WT
CONSIDERABLY.
ENL A R GED—NO TED
FOR ITS COMFORT
&. CONVENIENCE
ftOYAL
ONE OF THE
MOST FASHIONABLE
-HOTELS fN
LONDON
HANDS UP FOR
1
V
mm
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments maybe
secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards.
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted on applica
tlon to The Manager.
THE A BE AUTIFUL FABRIC.
fouis’ Velveteen.
NOTE WELL I-Each Yard of Genuine “LOUIS” Velveteen i
bears the name (spelled L-Q-U-hS and in no otheri
way) and is stamped with a guarantee of wear. <
v 'Jl
■
74 GANI
ELECTRIC
MOTORS
with a total capacity of
100 Horse-Power, will
operate the Gojernmint
Printing Office of Victor
Canz Induction Motor.
SOLE AGENTS:
The pstral Otis pginesriag So., [td., South (||elb.
SORE
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORB AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, LZZD
RESTORES eyelashes-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
NEVER FAILS.
Ask youp Chemist for the Little
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE
Book:
EYES”
CURED
To Snookers of High Class Mixture.
WILLS’ 3 ‘ ' VKE-UGU' MIXTURE
(Registered.)
Choice Blend of High Class and Carefully Selected TOBACCO.
Packed only in patent air-tight tins.
Manufactured in two strengths-Medium and Full. Price, Is. per 2oz. Tin.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
You. 24.—N0. 1222.
THURSDAY, JULY 16, 1903.
Psion 6d.
...
F- " ' ' "1
■* 5 V:; >£s |'
- <*. £&*&■s& ir
THE ANTIQUATED HALF-BRICX
"Queensland Employers' Federation, on motion of State Premier Philp, has decided to raise £10,000 as an election fund to fight the “Labor-Soeiahstic” Australian
Government. Victorian Employers’ Federation proposes to raise £20,000 with the same ol jcct; and N.S.W. capitalists will also co-operate.” —News Item.
MR. PHILP FAT: “I DON’T THINK I’D BETTER THROW, SEEMS TO ME THAT MY ROAD METAL IS NOT MUCH GOOD
AGAINST THIS SORT OF THING.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
44 Australia for the Australians* 9 *
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
.Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-streefc North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance, only)
Per Annum £l6 0
Half-yearly „ ... 013 0
Quarterly m ... Mt 0 7 0
NOTICE.
„P<J ending direct to Thb Bulletin Office Twenty-
oix Shillings sterling you can have Tub Bulletin posted
regularly to you every iveek for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressed to the Editor.
Special Notice.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number, is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, SOOO words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Jtlacle and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-draum—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
aJter the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Wotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa —Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal; Solomon
and Wilson, 32 Hout St., Capetown; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban; Argus
Rhodes'a ’ Rhodesia; Gwelo News Agency,
Ceylon.— Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
B Vancouver.- Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver
Kmig 0 KoNa - —Brewer and Co., 33 Queens Road, Hong
Shanghai,— Brewer and Co.
S^zzZZe&n.
THURSDAY, JULY 16, 1903.
An Australian Navy.
The case against the Australian naval tribute only
showed its full force when Premier Barton came
forward with a statement of the reasons which
influenced him to give it his support. Mr. Barton
was able to advance no single argument, economic
or patriotic, for the plan which he proposed; was
able to, refute the objections which have been
urged against it in no essential particular. From
whatever point of view—lmperial or anti-imperial
—the scheme is considered, its only logical defence
lies in the theory that Australia is a poor God-
forsaken country without administrative brains
courage,, enterprise or intelligence, not fit to have
any dignified part in its own naval defence, not
to, be trusted with'any weapons lest it should
misuse them, worthy only to drudge for the
money which a higher and more capable power
shall spend ; and to provide the lob-lolly boys, the
slushies, and the deck-swabbers, whose efforts a
higher power shall direct or control. (That is the
only excuse, unless it is assumed that Australia is
a treacherous, violent, and revolutionary land
winch ean t be trusted with a navy lest it should
join _it to, the Russian fleet and bombard
hondam) Premier Barton was not able, with
all Ins casuistry, to, conceal this unpleasant view
of tne case-, so. he let argument for the proposal,
into which lie was entrapped by Chamberlain
go, by default, and, in a cloud of inept platitudes
and irrelevant generalities, put forward, rather
than advocated, the Naval Agreement Bill.
* * *' •
The precise terms of the agreement, as embodied
in a schedule of the Bill, are :
The British Admiralty will place 11 ships on the Aus-
tralian station. The ships are to be “placed" here, but
their range of effort is to be from the North Pole on the
north to the South Pole on the south, over all the waters
of Asia (including the Persian Gulf), along the East Coast
of Africa as far as Madagascar, and over the Pacific
to somewhere adjacent to the coast of M&ido-in fact, as
far abroad as a warship of ordinary coal Capacity can go.
There is no provision that in either peace or war time the
vessels shall remain in Australian waters. It is even
possible that, given a sanctimonious admiral, they may
be off Madagascar or Kamtschatka while the Melbourne
Cup is being run.
The vessels are to be directed by the Admiralty and
officered by the Royal Navy. But Australia and Maori-
iand may find brass-polishers and deck-scrubbers and
stokers for four of the vessels-three reserve drill ships
arid one active service ship— at special rates of pav. In
what way the rates are to be special, specially- high or
specially low, is not stated. J “
Austrah-a and Maoriland are to pay £240,000)a year to
the British Admiralty.
Australia and Maoriland are to be given the nrivileee
of finding 10 “ cadets" for the British navy each year.
These cadets, after being trained in Britain and; taught,
to say haw with the proper accent, and, to snub a
beasUy colonial with due hauteur, may become officers off
the Royal Navy, and be flogged by their British superiors
by private,and informal court-martial.
The Australian .Naval Reserves ,are to be disbanded as
Australian reserves and to be enrolledlas reserves under
the direct control of the British Admiralty.
The Imperial Government, is to ‘“recognise ” (here
comes a trace of the influence of the frozen meat patriot),
the advantages to be got by buying coal and meat and
flour for its fleet in these waters, fromiAustralasia.
Taking these conditions seriatim the first confers
no benefit, but takes away whateven-advantage is
derived under the present agreement! from having-
the Australian squadron permanently stationed
in peace time in these waters, to lend distinction.
to our race meetings and to increase the profits of
rbrewers. Th'e second is directly insulting in
its implication that the Australian is only fit for
ttie dirty menial work of a navy—the work of
tidying up the weevils which have escaped from
bls cuits and .making up the English officer’s
f i I/ 16 third is a plain robbery by confidence
trick, the exaction of a tribute on the plea of
rendering services which are not be to rendered.
“ u , r “ . 1S not , ln any sense an advantage,
seeing that Australia already has the “privilege”
o nominating cadets and doesn’t exercise it to
anything like the allowed extent. The fifth is
our own P ow ers of self-defence.
S 1X +u the appearance of being a concession,
but, as the British Admiralty would probably buy
coal at Newcastle and its frozen meat at Christ-
r™rch, anyhow, for vessels in these waters, its
practical benefit is nil.
* * * *
It is, in all, a poor sort of agreement to defend
before an Australian Parliament. The only really
cogent arguments which might be ad vanced in its
favor Mr. Babton did not dare to mention. He
might have said that it was dangerous for the
itmpire to allow Australia to have a fleet of its
own, or even naval reserves of its own. That
idea is, no doubt, at the back of the mind of many
a British politician, and from the point of view of
the man who is for the Empire first and Australia
second it is if capable of being established as a
fact or as a reasonable theory—valid enough. But
m view of the recent remarkable display of
wdhngness on the part of Australians to back
up the Empire ’’ even in the performance
of a brutal burglary aggravated by whole-
sa!e homicide, it would be a public display
of beastly ingratitude for such an argument to be
mentioned openly by the British authorities.
Australia showed the excess of loyalty of a party
politician at the time of the S’African war, being
*2, support the Empire “right or wrong.”
. lh ® -kmpu-e reciprocates by deciding that it
is not safe to trust Australia with a naval gun.
but does not publicly mention the fact; nor does
Mr. Babton. Mr. Babton might, alternatively,
have borrowed from the Freetrade party the old
familiar argument that the Australian is a poor
fP rt .°^ l c^ e ?' ture > not fitted by Nature to exercise
tne lull rights of a citizen and to have manufac-
tures and a fleet of his own, but necessarily
dependent on some people of a higher mental
type for those equipments of greatness. But he
was silent, too, on that question. His client had a
poor case that was best left without argument
There was, however, in the K.C.M.G. and the
ho ping-to-be K. C. M. G. element in Parliament, a
good friend on the jury,” and that made a bad
cause safe. For the Naval Tribute Bill does seem
unhappily, to be quite safe.
* * • •
But in spite of the almost hopelessness of the
effort—the Australian Parliament being, seem-
ingly, bent on entering into a compact which is
as economically foolish as it is sentimentally
degrading— The Bulletin Would like to put the
case against this Tribute scheme again, not the
case as it would appear to the Australian con-
sidering his own country first in all things and
the Empire” second, but as it would show
to a strong, sane Imperialist, a man regarding Aus-
tralian interests as necessarily bound up with the
Empire, and ready to take any course which seems
best for the Empire—provided that it does seem
best after careful examination, and is not merely
assumed to be best on the assertion of somebody
The alternative to the Naval Tribute proposed by
Mr. Babton, is the expenditure of a like sum of
money, or, if necessary, a much larger sum of
money, on an Australian navy, which would be
organised on the same lines as the Australian
army, and would probably be, for some time at
least, commanded by a British Admiral and to a
very considerable extent officered by Britishers.
I his navy would, in times of peace, be used as a
training squadron for Australian naval men
In times of war it would be available for
the defence of Australia and, there is no doubt
for the assistance of Britain in other waters if
that .were. called for. The service to “the
Empire in merely maintaining the coaling and
victualling stations in these waters, in providing
and keeping up a base for the British forces, and
in protecting the huge amount of British capital
invested in Australasia, would be immense In
addition there is not the slightest doubt that it
would, whilst the present temper of Australia
continues, be available as a volunteer fleet to
assist Britain in any trouble abroad. Further
by setting up an independent, though sym-
pathetic, organisation it would give a stan-
dard of comparison and of emulation now
wanting. In the S’African war Australian
soldiers were able to give valuable points to
British Tommies in cow-stealing, farm-burning
and concentrating, as well as in other and more
dignified branches of the art of war. It is reason-
able to suppose that an Australian navy would
like an Australian army, develop points in tactics
and in management which would be of value to
the Britisher. The Lords of the Admiralty are
supposed now to be perfect—as the War Office
was supposed to be perfect five years ago. But it
is possible to imagine that there are faults in the
navy as there were in the army, that a fine tradi-
tion has been allowed to congeal into a dead and
apathetic routine, and that a naval war would
§Jiow as alarming faults in Britain’s sea power as
the last campaign showed in its land forces,
lhe payment by Australasia of £240,000 a
year would do nothing to correct those ’faults
a ® exist: but the gradual evolution of an
Australian fleet, based on the British model but
not bound by sacrosanct tradition to follow that
™°del in every detail, would provide an invalu-
able standard of comparison and of criticism.
The free-and-easy Australian soldier has had his
reforming services to the British army very freely
acknowledged. That acknowledgment and an
unfulfilled promise of a billet on the trams are
the chief rewards he has reaped for his volun-
teering. It is more than possible that, with the
growth of an Australian navy, a future generation
of Britishers might be expressing equally devout
thanks for free-and-easy Australian naval men,
and some of them might also be promised a billet
■on the trams.
* • • *
That is the case from the Imperial point of
view m favor of an Australian navy and against
the proposals of the Imperial Government.
Opposed to it, Mr. Babton can only place the
sanction given to the scheme which he advocates
by a British administration which has put on
record its policy as “blundering through some-
dare not P lead a Possible disintegration
ot the Empire from the existence of an Australian
«eet, for that would be, on the present facts,
absurd. He dare not plead that the Aus-
tralian is only fitted to be a slushy, and
must have a Cecil for an admiral, and a
younger Cecil for a captain, and a Cecil’s
second cousin for a middy. The Naval Tribute
scheme proposes no effective defence for Aus-
tralia ; it is to be an eleemosynary sort of guard,
;given like a penny to a beggar, if there is no better
use for the coin elsewhere. An Australian navy
would give some effective defence. The Tribute
scheme suggests no additional protection for the
Empire; it only provides that Australia is to
contribute a.dole to the funds of the Admiralty.
An Australian navy would give new ships, new
men and new ideas. The Tribute scheme will
help to entrench the conservative and out-of-date
methods which are more than suspected to be
eating into the British navy system. An Aus-
tralian navy would provide some check on that
conservatism, crystallising into inefficiency
under the mismanagement of titled noodles,
who are naval officers because they were
born in certain beds—not because they possess
certain capacities. Spain was once the greatest
naval power of Europe. Its navy began to
crumble when the tendency was to promote by
title and not by worth. The same tendency now
infects the British navy, and is, perhaps, already
infecting it with dry rot. The foundation of an
Australian navy would provide some little check
against that drift. . The truest friends, alike of
Australia and Britain, are those who speak in its
favor. If not desirable on behalf of Australia
it would be on behalf of Britain.
The "Federal Extravagance” Lie.
All over Australia there is a casual babbling by
ignorant men, and uninformed political women,
incapable or wilfully misleading papers about
Federal extravagance/’ and the lie grows weari-
some through too much repetition. If there was
any strong evidence to support it the tale would
be less remarkable, but there is ; little or none. It
is based on the assumption that the Common-
wealth Government should make bricks without
straw, should do its work without clerks or
officers, should draw no salary, should hang out
in a bark hut, and in a general way should cost
nothing and yet pay everybody. As one horrible
example of “Federal extravagance” the Laun-
ceston Examiner recently announced that the
Federal Treasury department, which does busi-
r over Australia, was worked at a cost of
£6170 for a complete year; which sum is less than
one-fourth the cost of the Treasurer’s department
m the single State of N.S.W. When the Com-
monwealth Government proposes to have a repre-
sentative in England, the suggestion raises a
shriek of horror from the States which keep up six
representatives. Its proposal that the High
n U a*’ W^c .k * s *° d° a great part of the work of
all Australia, should consist of five Judges is
denounced by the States, which themselves keep
up 30 Supreme Court Judges and a multitude of
minor ones. The idea of there being a capital
for Australia is wept over by State politicians
who insist on keeping up six capitals. And
though the obligations to create a Federal capital
an d High Court, and to appoint a Commissioner
in London, were cast upon the Commonwealth
Government by the State politicians who drafted
the Commonwealth Constitution, and who made
these things a cast-iron part of the bargain, the
lamentation of State politicians because the
Federal Government proposes to honestly carry
out the bargain thus forced upon it, and their
denunciations of its extravagance for so doing,
are dreadful to listen to. New South Wales re-
fused to join the Union till provision was made for
building a Federal capital “out in the bush.” A
large section of New South Wales abused the
Commonwealth Government in the most violent
language and propounded theories about a “ Vic-
torian conspiracy” because the capital wasn’t
created during the very first session of Parliament
and didn fc grow up in a night. And a very large
section of New South Wales—mostly the same
Freetrade section which, under George Reid’s
leadership, got the “bush capital” idea inserted
m the Constitution, and which demanded that the
Barton Government should be expelled from
office because its bush capital wasn’t established
during the first session of Parliament—now de-
mands that the Barton Government shall be ex-
pelled for proposing to establish it at all. Yet this
party makes no definite proposal about abolishing
the clause which gives New South Wales possession
of the Federal city under these conditions. If
such a proposal were made the chances are that the
same party would preach revolution.
* * * *
The Australian Government started under
many difficulties. In the last days of the
old order of things various States gaily
and lavishly raised the salaries of the officials
to be taken over by the Commonwealth—and
left the Commonwealth to pay the bill. Victoria
went further $ almost its last act as a “ sovereign
State was to enact that each one of its officials
taken over by the Commonwealth should receive
the highest rate of wages paid to any officer of his
class in.any part of the Commonwealth—in other
words, it handed over the most costly civil service
in all Australia. Also Victoria reduced its inland
postal rate at the last moment, and left the Austra-
lian Government to make the best it could of the
transferred postal department under the loss.
Then the Australian Government is expected to
pay out of revenue for all postal, telegraph and
telephone works, which the States charged to
loans, and yet it is expected to return the States
more revenue from these sources than the States
received under the old system. The States, though
they have handed over to the Australian Parlia-
ment a vast amount of the work of Government
insist on keeping up the old pomp and glory—the
six full-blown imported Governors, the Agents-
General, the Upper Houses, the Government
House establishments,.the Parliamentary flunkeys
and dancing masters; even the Assemblies haven’t
been seriously reduced, and the Ministries are
mostly as strong as ever. And though the Com-
monwealth Government has relieved the States of
about 3J millions of necessary expenditure, the
aggregate expenditure of the States is almost
exactly what it was before they were thus relieved.
The lamentation about Federal extravagance helps
to cover up these things. The States represent the
busted prodigal sitting among his swine and weep-
ing over the extravagance of the prudent brother
who remained at home.
* * , *" •
The Federal Government ran its whole business
for the year ended June, 1902, at a cost, in new
expenditure, of rather under £276,000. That
was the cost of the two Houses of Parliament, the
Ministry, the necessary officers, clerks, depart-
ments, Auditor-General, &c., the Governor-
General, and all the other fixings. Also
it covered payment to the States for the
travelling expenses of Federal members—one
item which the States seldom include conspicu-
ously in their own cost of government, though the
item is there all the time. In the year ended
June, 1903, this very small expense was reduced
by intense economy, to about £256,000. In every
State (bar only S.A.) which closed its accounts
on 30th June, it was mentioned with glad sur-
prise- that things were much better than was
expected because the Commonwealth Govern-
ment’s intense economy had enabled it to return
to the State Treasurers an amount which
exceeded the largest anticipations. The Com-
monwealth Government, said to be wallowing
in ever-increasing extravagance, returned to the
States for the financial year just closed
£832,320 more than it did in the pre-
ceding year. And the States, which fail to
meet their obligations even under these favorable
conditions, have to do something, or say sorne-
tlnng, to divert attention from their own in-
capacity and iniquity.
.•* * •
It is time that the tables were turned and that
-b ederal politicians commenced a crusade against
State extravagance. The cry of the younger
brother who lives sumptuously in a palace, that
his dimculties are caused by the extravagance of
nis elder brother who hangs out penuriously in a
gunyah, is becoming a public scandal as well as
* 0- Ihe position may be condensed thus:
otate politicians, though they have now much
less to do than formerly,. don’t want to reduce
their numbers, pomp, dignity or privileges ; they
don t want to abate their old lavishness in buying
public support with roads and bridges; and they
don t want to make themselves unpopular by
imposing new taxation.. Therefore the deficit
which has been chronic in Australia for 20 years
is just as chronic as ever. But, for the first time,
there is an Australian Government to lay the
blame on, and, of course, politicians and the
papers they control or influence, and the political
organisations whose wires they pull, lay the blame
there enthusiastically. And the unreasoning
• n ° o women of both sexes, which is
incapable of independent inquiry, and which
jva ■> k understand the figures of the case if it
did inquire, follows suit. The cry of “Federal
extravagance ” directed against almost the only
genuinely economical Government that Australia
possesses, ranks, as a popular delusion, with witch
craft, the Boer war craze, prayers for rain, the
magnificent natural resources of this great
country, and the idea that Jews sacrifice
children at religious festivals.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Victoria’s Unpatriotic Bankers.
The Bankers’ _ Magazine (Melbourne) is a
monthly publication run by bankers, and may be
fairly taken to express the sense and patriotism of
a class which is much given to putting on airs of
superior knowledge when questions of public
finance are involved. The following is dug out of
its latest issue:—
Abolish the Income Tax Altogether.
Now there is no occasion for the increased tax, if in
this bad year there is to be a surplus of £lOO,OOO. Next
year, with a good season, may bring a thumping surplus,
but do you think, reader, it will be devoted to remitting
taxation ? Your cynical and heated reply shows that
you understand the ways of Australian Governments.
You have never heard of a tax being taken off, you
say, once it was imposed. Well, we think vou will at
least see a good light made against the reiniposition of
the Shiels Income Tax, and we think a good case can
be made out for the abolition of the old Income Tax as
well. It was only a temporary measure, George Turner
said, so we want it taken away now, and hidden some-
where until we have a war or some other disaster on our
hands. When an emergency shall arise we have now
actually nothing fresh to tax ; we are in the position of
a young country, without internal or external war,
fairly prosperous, but gasping under all the taxes
invented by the ingenuity of worn-out, old civilisations
racked by terrific wars. If we had war or famine here,
we would have no fresh tax upon us. The present is a
most opportune time for all public bodies, such as
Chambers of Commerce and the various institutes, to
resolutely fight the Income Tax. It can be shown to be
unnecessary even under existing circumstances ; it can
be proved to be utterly unnecessary after all our
promised public economies are introduced, and, finally,
it can be demonstrated to be a deadly injury to our
financial connection with the British capitalist. The cry
at the next elections should be, Down with the Income
Tax!’
If the above represents the sense of the banking
community, then it is a dangerous thing for
Australia to leave large financial institutions
in the hands of men who are so shamefully and
childishly ignorant, and so wretchedly narrow,
mean and unpatriotic. Victoria has had one
surplus. It would take nearly three such sur-
pluses to pay off last year’s shortage, but the
bankers, evidently, don’t care for that. It would
take nearly 20 such surpluses to pay off the
accumulated deficit, but the unpatriotic bankers
plainly don t care for that either. The surplus
was all made by starving the railway repairs, and
another year or two of such economy will leave
the country with practically no railways at all,
but the bankers, apparently, don’t care for that
any more than for the other things. There are
■£4,000,000 of unproductive debt to be paid off and
£50,000,000 of total debt, but the bankers care as
little for that as for the rest —all they want is to
reduce their own share of taxation. And they lie
magnificently to bring this about. It is a lie that
Victoria “ gasps under all the taxes invented by
the ingenuity of worn-out old civilisations racked
by terrific wars.” Victoria is almost the only
country in the world where all the cities escape
land-tax; in Victoria £12,000,000 worth of land
is taxed _ and £100,000,000 worth escapes.
Victoria s income-tax even now is (averaging the
rates charged on different classes of incomes) not
much more than half that of Britain. (When the
Boer war was over Britain’s first care was to re-
sume its payments to the sinking fund for the
abolition of the National Debt, and the miserable
cowardice which makes the reduction of taxes the
first consideration wasn’t even dreamt of in tlie
Cold Country.) Victoria pays no house-tax ; and
it pays about one-quarter the average rate of
municipal taxation levied in England. As for the
theory that Victoria—lightly-taxed Victoria—has a
special right to expect light taxation because it has
no war debt, that is either a direct falsehood
or a dreadful example of the bankers’ ignorance.
In the main these war-debts are a handy myth.
The following table shows, as closely as possible,
the debts of a number of countries when the value
of State railways is deducted from, the liability:
Debt per Inhabitant Not Covered by Value of State-
owned Railways.
Victoria .. .. £lO 10 0 Roumania £4 4 0
Europe in general 10 2 0 Servia .. .! 310 0
Turkey .. .. 810 0 Russia .. ..300
Austria .. .. 80 0 Germany .. 2 6 0
United States .. 518 0 Bulgaria . 10 0
Belgium .. .. 614 0 Denmark .. " Nil
Switzerland .. 4 6 0 Sweden & Norway Nil
Most of these countries have telegraphs, public
estate or other assets to set against the above
debt, and quite a number of them have more
to show in that way than Victoria has. And when
an accumulated deficit of £2 per inhabitant
is added to the Victorian debt, the less its
bankers say about other country’s war-liabilities
the better; Tory misgovernment is a vast amount
more ruinous, in many cases, than war. With
Victoria in this condition—its huge unproduc-
tive debt, its enormous accumulated deficit, its
hideously decayed railways, its utter lack of a
sinking fund, and its very low taxation—the con
duct of its banking crowd in demanding less
taxation and a general letting of the country slide
is a shocking evidence of lack of patriotism. That
habit of preaching the doctrine of cowardice ami
helplessness, and promulgating the lie that we
are a specially taxed, burdened, crushed, ami
down-trodden people, is the worst service it*
press has done to Australia, and the Bankers
Magazine has got the disease badly.


The Australian Defence (Land) Bill.
Compared with the egregious folly of the proposed
system of Australian naval defence, the military
scheme suggested by the Defence Bill is a glorious
example of common sense. Examined strictly on
its own merits, however, it is found to be infected
a good deal with Forrest’s frill and Hutton’s
contempt for civil rights. The Bill has some good
points and some very bad ones. Among the good
points are provisions for the promotion of rankers
as officers, for the conscription of the whole male
population in case of need, and for punishing
any person who, by wearing the uniform of the
Defence Force, brings it into contempt. This
last clause will, if administered properly, operate
rather drastically on the “ officers and gentlemen ”
—some of whom are members of Parliament—
whose military enthusiasm is confined to strutting
about in a popinjay uniform. It is not likely that
General Hutton will administer it in that spirit,
but the clause is a handy thing to have about the
house for future use. Objectionable features of
the Bill are that it leaves so much to be fixed by
regulation; that it empowers the Governor-
General to force members of the Permanent
Forces (though not of the Citizen Forces)
to serve outside the Commonwealth (this
should be fought letter by letter; Australia
should never recruit a single man for compulsory
service abroad); and that it gives the military
authority in peace time an extreme degree of
power over railways, ferries, punts, water and
road ways, etc. The billeting of troops on private
persons is authorised even in peace time ; and that
clause should come out. Sea or road traffic may
be stopped anywhere to allow of military practice;
that needs to be very largely modified, though
some power of securing manoeuvring and heavy-
gun practice facilities is, of course, needed. But
it is in regard to courts-martial that the Bill is
most arbitrary. In addition to a general clause
giving such courts all the powers and privileges
attaching to British courts-martial, there are
these provisions:—
85. Any person who wilfully interrupts or disturbs the
proceedings of a court-martial, or uses insulting language
towards the court or the members thereof, or who by
writing or speech uses words calculated to improperly
influence the court or the members thereof or the wit-
nesses before the court, or to bring the court into dis-
repute, shall be guilty of contempt of court, whether the
act committed was committed in the court or outside the
court.
94. No proceedings of any court-martial constituted or
appointed under this Act shall be set aside or deemed
void for want of form, or be removed by certiorari or
otherwise into any civil court.
Under clause 85 it would be possible for a court-
martial to summarily convict and punish a civilian
(to the extent of three months 1 gaol) for a real or
fancied offence. A newspaper editor speaking
disrespectfully of General Hutton’s rooster-
feathers orhiscuss-words(which, compared with the
artistic creations of our own bullockies, are poor,
tame and trivial) might be sent to gaol for “ using
insulting language ” about him as a member of a
court martial. And there could be no appeal to a
civil court; so Clause 94 says. It would be an
exceedingly dangerous experiment to invest
courts-martial with summary and unappealable
jurisdiction over civilians in times of peace, and
that section of the Bill should be very thoroughly
amended. In peace time the court martial is only
needed as a tribunal for trying the military
offences of military people; it should have no
■jurisdiction over civilians and its decisions should
be in all cases liable to review before a civil court
by mandamus or prohibition. Australia wants to
set no man in a gaudy coat with braid trimmings
above or below the civil law of the land.
♦
A Husband at Any Cost.
At Melb. General Sessions a few days ago, his
Honor dealt tenderly with the case of a matured
spinster who married against the wishes of her
parents, and took to forgery to support herself in
her new and blessed state. Up to the time when
matrimony wrecked her character, Kate Kinder
was a harmless, respectable schoolmistress, with
no more idea of forgery than a babe unborn. She
didn’t know much about it after marriage, but
her knowledge sufficed. The bridegroom she had
taken to her hungry bosom needed a new ng-out,
so Kate, at his instigation, signed the name of a
parish priest to sundry cheques, and bought
pants, shirts, boots, etc., for her darling with the
risky documents. Her darling seemingly con-
tributed no means of support to their honeymoon
existence. He just lived on his wife until she fell
into the care of the police, and then he left her
to her fate in a delicate condition. All
that Kate Kinder seems likely to get out of
matrimony is a brief experience of dubious hap-
piness, a stigma of crime and an offspring—
possibly twins. A multitude of other Kates in
this land of declining marriage rate are ripe and
ready for a similar foolishness. The Law, which
talks casually of taxing bachelors who have
arrived at a time of life when they can’t be easily
drawn into a prudent alliance, might try to devise
some means of protection for the no-longer-young
female whose natural desire for marriage has gone
too far to be reasoned with. It is one of the con-
ventional lies of our civilisation that virtuous un-
married Kates are never old enough to know
better, as regards matters amorous, until they
have arrived at an age when their better judg-
ment is almost reduced to ashes by a consuming
fire. Respectability in a spinster gains no wisdom
as it matures. Her only hope of safety from the
attractions of a bad marriage, Should the chance
offer, lies in a little disrespectability meanwhile.
■ ♦
State “Eights.”
The State Rights craze rises again (S.M. Herald
leader, 9/7/’O3) :
The question whether the site for the Federal capital
is to be summarily acquired by the Commonwealth with-
out reference to the wishes or intentions of New fjouth
Wales, has been recently decided by Mr. Lyne, and the
Melbourne Argus has just added its endorsement. This
State is apparently to have no word in the choice of a site
if Federal Ministers and Federal critics can help it. In a
leader last week we urged that the Constitution gives no
power to the Commonwealth to lay urgent hands upon
any site it may desire, and that within reasonable limits
New South Wales has an undoubted right to say what
portion of her territory will be handed over. Otherwise
we should be without a remedy if it was determined to
establish the Federal capital, say, at Wentworth. The
Melbourne people are, perhaps, prepared to push argu-
ment to extremes with something of the sort in view ;
but in this section of the Commonwealth any effort to
settle so vital a question on the stand-and-deliver prin-
ciple will be resisted to the uttermost.
And the Herald, which is a reasonably moral
paper on the whole, probably quite • believes this
outrageously silly trash. As matters stand, New
South Wales has a larger voice in the selection of
the capital of all Australia than any other State
possesses, because it has the largest representa-
tion in the Australian Parliament and the largest
share of representation in the Australian Min-
istry. But, in addition to this, the State Rights party
wants the State Government of N.S.W. to have a
decisive voice while the other State Governments
have none, though the capital is to be as much their
capital as that of N.S.W. —otherwise “we should
be without a remedy if it was proposed to fix the
capital at, say, Wentworth.” The fact of the other
States being without a remedy under the same
painful conditions apparently doesn’t matter,
though it would be quite as horrible for a
Westralian to legislate at Wentworth as for a
N.S.W. man to do the same thing. N.S.W.
possesses a peculiarly silly parochial party, which
always assumes that the State’s 32 Federal
members are foreign enemies, and that, unless
John See’s local Ministry is allowed to put its
meddlesome local finger into purely Federal
concerns, N.S.W. is wholly unrepresented. Yet,
as a matter of obvious fact, the State Government
of N.S.W. has no more right to meddle with the
selection of the Australian capital than has the
State Government of Tasmania. If it is a griev-
ance that a capital and a Federal territory should
be cut out of N.S.W. without the purely State
Government of N.S.W. being consulted as to
details, then N.S.W. shouldn’t have brought the
grievance on itself by demanding that that capital
and that territory should be carved out of its
State. It can’t turn its own greed into its own
grievance. If the Australian Parliament does its
duty, it will decide solely on its own responsibility
to the place and size of the Federal territory,
and take that area and no other. The desire of
mere State politicians to meddle in the decision of
purely Federal affairs is a species of parochial
bumptiousness that can’t be too definitely re-
pressed.
4
Fitzroy Dock.
The report of the Royal Commission upon the
Fitzroy Dock (Sydney) is a dismal commentary on
the evils of Owe’Sullivan devices. This dock is a
national property —a * ‘ permanent and reproduc-
tive work.” In order to give the principle of
State ownership a fair chance —to keep it from
being dragged in the gutter of failure and dis-
repute—it was essential that the Dock should be
worked on honest business lines. The State paid
fair wages, and it was the State’s business to get
fair value for these wages. It didn’t want the
Dock to earn 10 per cent, dividends, but it did
want it to pay interest on the cost of construe-'
tion, cost of maintenance, and something over
to extinguish the debt upon it. There is
nothing in .any scheme of State socialism about
making any public work a charitable institution,
a home for the aged and incapable, a refuge for the
friends of politicians, and a place where unem-
ployed are pensioned off and stand around draw-
ing wages, but doing no work because there is none
for them to do. And the Fitzroy Dock has been
all these things under the despicable regime of
ward politician O’Sullivan. The superintendent
seems to have had no real authority, as to dis-
missal, as to rates of pay, as to sick leave, or as to
allowances. The finger of the politician was
always in the pie. One young man, it was alleged,
could never be sacked “so long as Mr. Brunker
was alive” (presumably the saintly cow-merchant
from the Hunter River whose halo of white hair
made godly the Reid Ministry). It was quite a
common thing for a man on being sacked to “see
a member” and be reinstated, or for an employee
to sit on . the doormat of the Minister until
tvt a r * se one shilling a week in wages.
Nobody could be a better friend to private enter-
pnse and. private boodling than the corrupt gang
of politicians who thus bring State enterprise into
contempt. Moreover, there is another aspect of
the case. New South Wales pays its Ministers to
look after large affairs of State, and the Minister
who is always grubbing in the mire of small details,
doing office-boy’s work, interviewing Brown, who
wants 2d. more wages, and Jones, _who thinks
he has been done out of has no time for large
affairs of State. He isn’t a Minister in the real
sense of the term —merely an opener of bridges
and tea-meetings, a babbler about small details, a
rouseabout, odd jobber and busybody, a.fetcher
and carrier, a pottering combination of
curate, old woman, small, fussy benefactor
and soup kitchen. The making of a Greater
Sydney, the establishment of local govern-
ment throughout the State, the restoration
of the finances, the graduated land-tax and absen-
tee tax, the State Bank problem—all these and a
dozen other large questions are hung up year after
year while the Ministry’s time is filled with
wrestlings over the claim of Patrick Hoolan to
Id. an hour “dirt money.” New South Wales
needs a Ministry that has time to deal with larger
questions than “ dirt-money.”
♦
The Socialistic Victorian Farmer.
The very last resolution carried by the recent
Farmers’ Convention at Colac (Vic.) was to the
effect that “ as the permanent settlement of the
farmers of the northern area of the State depends
on the utilisation of the Murray and other rivers,
the Premier be urged to bring before Parliament
without delay a Bill authorising a loan to carry
out a comprehensive scheme of water conservation
and irrigation.” This resolution of the begging
farmers—the men who had just applauded
Irvine’s windy declamations against Socialism,
and who have helped to plunder the civil servant
and sweat the city worker —is really a matchless
piece of impudence. The resolution was moved
by one Bedwell, of the Murray Valley Irrigation
Trust, and supported by Geo. Russell, of
Numurkah, Pagan, of Tatura, and Morton, of
Kerang. The Bulletin gives these names because
it is significant that the Irrigation and Water-
works Trusts they represent are just those
that most shamelessly swindled the State Trea-
sury when the Turner-Peacock Government, in
’99, relieved the Irrigation Trusts of their liabili-
ties and passed them on to the shoulders of the
city workers and posterity. At that date
Tatura, Numurkah, Shepparton and Trago,-
wel Plains owed £509,639 besides interest,
of which they calmly passed on to the
State no less than £502,048. Tragowel,
which lies between Kerang and the Murray,
was the c(joicest .specimen of lazy incompetence
or rascally repudiation of the whole lot; it owed,
at June 30th, ’99, =6158,418 of capital and £80,141
of interest, and repudiated every penny of interest
owing and £123,418 of the capital borrowed.
That is the record of the bodies which, after
barracking for private enterprise and deriding
Socialism, coolly ask the State to borrow several
millions to water their private lands and pass the
bill on to the rest of the community, or posterity,
or any body it likes —their troubles! And not
only did they never repay the money they
borrowed or a cent of interest thereon,
but, though the value of their holdings
was increased three and even five-fold, they
seldom, if ever, raised the municipal valuations
(Rodney, for instance, was loaned £282,500, and its
valuation grew from £44,182 in ’B7 to but £53,399
in ’01). They kept their rates down to the lowest
possible figure that would serve to keep the bailiff
out (Rodney, Numurkah, and the rest still pay a
Is. rate, while, in the city, Footscray and Bruns-
wick pay 2s. 6d. and 2s. 4d. respectively). At
the same conference these beautiful farmers—who
preach individualism and practise Socialism—had
been listening to addresses, and presumably
assimilating knowledge, from agricultural experts
paid by the State, one of whom gave them
valuable information obtained by him from ex-
perimental plots worked and tested at great
expense by the State, while another explained
how the profitable butter industry, started and
nursed by the State, could be further improved
and expanded, if only they would learn the
lessons the State was trying to teach. Just here
it is pertinent to remark that while the starting
and expanding of the butter export trade has put
thousands of pounds into the pockets of the Vic-
torian farmer it has not made butter any cheaper
to the city worker. On the contrary, the increasing
regularity of export tends to keep the price up.
And these f ar.mers ask that millions more be spent
on them ! (The Waranga Basin scheme now in
progress will run to nearly a million before it is
finished.) Does the State provide experts to teach
the city factory hands ? Does it run experimental
factories? Has it given bonuses for manufac-
tures? (It offered one for beet sugar at Maffra,
and the fat stock-raisers were too lazy to grow
the beet.) Does it subsidise the city munici-
palities? Does it carry manufactured goods at
unpayable rates? Does it give tools free, as it
grants seed wheat and rabbit-proof fencing ? The
fact is that the farmer is a good deal more of a
socialist, in that he leans on the State for aid in
his industry, than any other class of worker in
Victoria. And he is more than a socialist. In
addition to his other qualities, he has the assur-
ance to regard the fact that he repudiated previous
loans as a reason why he should be trusted with
more money.
A Presumption of Law.
Nobody, perhaps, whose sympathy is worth
having has any for Grand and Jones, who went
to the gallows at Darlinghurst last week.
That, however, does not affect the rotten-
ness of the presumption of law which hanged
them, and hanged them in spite of the jury|s
recommendation to mercy. This presumption is
that, when two or more men are engaged in an un-
lawful act, and murder is committed, all are
guilty of murder. This matter was warmly
debated once before in New South Wales, both in-
side and outside of Parliament, in connection
with the crime for which Scott and Rogan were
hanged in 1880. Parkes, at that time Premier,
then said, summing up the whole position—“ The
report that this man or that man fired the fatal
shot is a quibble—they all fired the fatal shot.”
And that was worse than a quibble—it was a
lie. See how it works out. Grand and and
very -likely a third man went to a hotel to
do a “ job ” for which they deserved, say, seven
years. If they had been caught without shooting
anybody, that, no doubt, is about what they
would have got. But ®ne of them —it may not
have been either Grand or Jones, and it certainly
was not both —usjed a weapon. There is no proof
that the man who did not shoot approved of or
assented to the shooting; those who did not shoot
were, possibly, ignorant that there was a weapon
in the crowd. Nor has the fact that the men were
there for an unlawful purpose any real bearing on
the case. They were there for one unlawful pur-
pose, but not for another; and it is a most
unwarrantable assumption that because they were
both willing to commit one crime they were both
willing to commit any and every other in the
calendar. It is as unwarrantable as it would
be to assume that because a man is will-
ing to do one [good deed he is willing
to do every other that could be thought of.
A crowd might rush down to the end of a
pier to help a man out of a raging sea; but it
would not follow that the whole crowd was
capable of jumping into the water, and risking
its life, because one single member of the crowd
did so ; and if anybody proposed to reward the
whole crowd with Humane Society medals for
saving life, there would be a loud guffaw, and yet
no louder a guffaw than the circumstances of the
case would call for. Again, when a conspicuous
act of bravery is performed in war, the whole
army isn’t held responsible and awarded the
Victoria Cross, notwithstanding that the whole
army is supposed to be capable of doing brave
things. It is supposed to be capable of doing
some brave things, that is to say; but if one man
does a thing out of the ordinary programme, he
personally, and not the whole army, is rewarded ;
and, if he can’t be found, nobody is rewarded.
Yet when, in other circumstances, one man does
a thing which isn’t in the programme—does a
thing of whioh, possibly, the Others are not
capable— and when that thing happens to be a
bad thing, all are punished; and that is exactly
as unfair and absurd as the other would be. It
was on this perfectly sound ground that the jury
recommended these two men, G-rand and Jones,
to mercy; but as that recommendation amounted
to a reflection upon a presumption of law of great
antiquity, it was disregarded. There is, therefore,
only one course open. If the people cannot re-
flect hard enough upon an absurd and unfair pre-
sumption of law through the jury, they must work
through their Parliament, whose views cannot be
flouted as those of a jury so often are.
♦
Sharks,
The ravings of one A. St. Ledger at the meeting
held in Brisbane to form a “national defence
fund ” for the purpose of downing Laborites and
supporters of Barton and Kingston at the
Federal elections: —
The Federal Parliament had out-Heroded Herod by
proclaiming to the world, both by deliberate legislation,
and still more deliberate administration, that white men
of our own race and blood were social lepers, whose pre-
sence should not be endured on our shores, and should
not be permitted to contaminate our people. It has told
the world that the British artisan was a species of pariah,
that his labor and his industry were a menace to Aus-
tralia and his fellow-workman, and that no employer
should be permitted to engage from outside us even a
unionist artisan at unionist wages, unless an Australian
trades union shall certify that such labor cannot be ob-
tained amongst us.
No, St. Ledger or St. Cash-book, or whatever it
is; the Federal Parliament hasn’t quite tpld the
world that. What it has told the world is that
there are sharks in Australia who don’t care a
straw how they get rich so long as they do get
rich. Some of them s have already got rich by
swindling the Customs, others by promoting bogus
banks, others by importing cheap colored labor
while white men of their own race were near
starving for want of work. And the Fede-
ral Parliament, which knows these sharks,
has told the world that, if they could
make sixpence out of it, they wouldn’t hesitate to
import British artisans under bond to serve them
at wages out of all proportion to the cost of living
here. The Federal Parliament hasn’t cast any
reflection on the British artisan. All it has said
is that there are sharks in Australia, and that it
thinks too well of the British artisan to permit
him to come here bound so that the sharks may
have him at their mercy, and the sharks don’t like
it, and that is what all the trouble is about. Lamb
liked babies—boiled. The Australian shark loves
the British artisan —trussed.
When Wilkinson, M.P., moved a resolution in
the House lately in favor of a bonus on ginned
cotton, his proposal was jumped on heavily by
many farmers’ representatives. These individuals
have doubtless been told that Protection doesn’t
benefit the farmer, and have accepted the yarn as
gospel. Some day, perhaps, they will learn
better. If the Australian farmer sends to Parlia-
ment none but solidly Protectionist (high tariff,
not revenue tariff) representatives, there will be
some hope of Parliament giving a bonus for the
ginning of cotton, and that should mean, in a few
years, a thousand or so workers growing cotton
and ten thousand more manufacturing it—even as
is done in Manchester to-day—and every one of
these gould support a wife and family who could
pay the farmer for his wheat. And this applies
not to cotton only ; it is so with the great iron and
steel industry, the ship-building business, the
linen and woollen industries, and many others.
All the people employed in these industries will
buy the farmer’s produce here, giving him full
value for it. If Australia doesn’t establish manu-
factures on a large scale, then there won’t be
sufficient population here to buy all, or nearly all,
the farmer’s produce, and he must send a vast
quantity to England. Then he doesn’t get full
price; he gets the price less freight for 16,000
miles, insurance, exchange, and the charges of
half-a-dozen middlemen —also, the price he gets
is the lowest price at which his cheapest nigger or
other competitor can supply at. If the farmer
doesn’t want Protection, it simply means that he
doesn’t want customers. >
Sydney Daily Telegbaph finds with pained sur-
prise that foreigners own most of the fruit shops
and nearly all the fish shops in the city; and it
quotes the officer in charge of the Department of
Labor:—
The boys [employed at these shops] come to this coun-
try under some form of indenture which appears to place
them practically in servitude to their masters. In some
cases the inspectors have found lads worked up to from
90 to 100 hours per week. To protect them effectually is
almost impossible. In abject fear of their masters, they
refuse to give information, or, if put in the witness-box,
will commit perjury rather than betray them.
But what about it ? ■ The Telegbaph doesn’t pro-
pose to interfere with that, does it? The very
issue in which the report is made denounces the
Government half-a-dozen times over for “inter-
fering with the capitalist,” and “ destroying free-
dom of action on the part of the employer.”
Ip we must hang people the least we might do is
to carry out; the loathsome business on some
scientific principles. It seems that the JST.S.W.
hangman, who presumably is not a scientist, fixes
the length of drop and the other ghastly details
“on some principles of his own;” and he fixes
them so badly that, pretty often, instead
of instantaneous death coming to his miserable
victim, the poor wretch dangles, still living, at
the end of the rope for five, 10, and even 15
minutes. Three of the Mount Rennie boys were
slowly strangled in this way. Williams (of
Williams and Montgomeby) was suffocated after
one of the most shocking exhibitions ever witnessed
at a gallows; and now Gband has writhed under
the drop for upwards of five minutes, eventually
dying, not the swift death that follows dislocation
of the neck, but the slow death that comes from
suffocation. When a£s culvert is to be built,
the garden variety of workman isn’t trusted to do
the job unaided ; the trained, scientific, profes*
Ham upon the File.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
President Roosevelt has sent a message to the Ozar
imploring him to protect the Jews from further outrage.
A negro was burnt, last week, in Alabama, by a lynch-
ing mob.
—Recent items m the press news.
“ Don’t persecute the Hebrews! ” said the Yankees
to the Czar —
They’d just anointed Sambo with a bucketful of
tar;
They’d just saluted Sambo with a load of language
vile,
And escorted him in fury to a savage-looking
pile.
“ Don’t raid the sons of Jacob in the Ghetto and
the den”—
The Yankee wrote the message with a diplomatic
pen,—
The curling smoke kept rising in the distance all
the while
From the bed of luckless Sambo—as he perished
on the pile.
“ Remember we are Human all ” —the Yankee
wrote again—
“ The Jew is Man and Brother —though he loves
another fane.”
The Yankee’s other brother —you could hear him
near a mile
As he called aloud for mercy to the wolves about
the pile.
“ You hurt the finer feelings of the Syndicate and
Trust
Whene’er your people ravage in the ways of Loot
and Lust! ”
The Yankee’s finer feelings—they were holding
forth in style
On the blessed Reformation of a Race upon the
pile.
“The Land of Wooden Nutmegs begs to tell the
Russian Bear—
’Tis wrong to harry mortals as a hound would
hunt a hare.”
But the Bear he sniffed and snorted —then he
muttered with a smile—
“ls the Yankee basting beef , or is it Ham upon the
pile?”
“ The woes of Russian Hebrews make the Yankee
nation sob,
So kindly curb the fury of your fierce Slavonic
mob.”
“By yonder shrieks,” replied the Bear—“ I guess
the versatile
American is sobbing out his soul about a pile ! ”
“I know,” the Bear continued, with a kind of
surly growl,
“The Slav’s a slinking forest-wolf whene’er he’s
on the prowl;
But, if ye want a tiger full of cruel hate and
guile
Commend me to a Yankee man who yells around
a pile! ”
Q.
P.L.


sional man must draw plans, and calculate strains,
and so on. But when it is a mere matter of taking
a human life, winch is really the most serious
thing any Government ever does—well, the garden
variety of workman does the job “on his own ”
and bungles it just as badly as might be expected
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
dI^ E . UM ' - * " In Shadow of Night.”
koyal “Dolores” and “Sweet Nell”
Tivoli
Palace “Arizona.”
Criterion “Two Little Vagabonds."
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess's “The Fortune Teller."
Her Majesty’s “ The Belle of New York."
Theatre Royal M Breaking of the Drought."
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
town Hall Westminster Abbey Glee Party.
«
When Hall Caine dies and his spook comes
to stand behind the pearly spikes to answer for
sins committed in the body, what plea shall he put
extenuation of having written the
Christian ? Of course, no plea will avail him
tor having created a John Storm and a Holv
Gethsemane, so he will probably be fastened down
in Hades with a Manx cat on his chest and an
Hye, wearing the wild expression that John Storm
Used to preach with, fixed upon him forever. Then
when Bernard Espinasse and J. C. Williamson
give up their ghosts, will they be judged guilty as
accessories after the act? “It is a great moral
question,” as the darkey, engaged in rob-
bmg a hen-roost, replied, when asked by
another Sambo if it were a sin to steal'
chickens, “and dis am no place to argue
I*- lh .e “Christian” spent Thursday and
f rid ay nights on the stage of Sydney Royal A
longer visit would have paganised the city. John
Trvn'rr s , cre . ed ls neither fish, flesh, fowl, nor good
Hill-Catholic. He is a sort of Mohammedan
Baptist. Bat there is something of the early
Christian martyr about him—the “martyr” who
funked at sight of the lions and asked the Roman
guard the nearest way to the temple of Apollo (or
any other old thing in the idol line), and then
funked at sight of the idol and decided to go
back and have another look at the lions. Cuyler
Hastings, as John Storm, made up to look the
exalted and exulting fanatic to the life, but all his
art couldn’t bring the character into sympathetic
touch with the audience. Glory Quayle, that
cross between a dairymaid and a “tart,” was
capitally played by Miss Chevalier. Also, Athol-
wood, as Canon Wealthy, was the sour and gold-
plated churchman to the last button—the one
that was put in the plate.
** * *
Ihe humans, as distinct from the rodents
in “Mice and Men,” which opened the Musgrove
season last Saturday at Sydney Royal, are a
vastly polite crowd. They “vow and protest,”
and one is so ungenteel that she “positively does
;not know how to swoon.” A considerable part of
Act 1 goes about as smartly as a centipede wearing
heavy boots on all his feet. Talk, talk, smothered
mouthing, or gabbling—the elocution of the
majority of the men has not the charm and
carrying quality of the squeaking of the mice.
When Nellie Stewart comes in, the centipede
takes off his boots, and doesn’t resume them
save for some short intervals, and the play runs
brightly after that. Nellie, as the foundling
wench named by the parish, “Little Britain,’’
really looks the 10-year-old she is supposed to be
She is gawky, all hands and feet and raised
shoulders, but after two years of adoption by a
philosopher and scientist she re-appears a charm-
lnff Eaisy Dimple person, with nothing of her
early hoydenishness remaining save a tendency to
run abo lit the lawn barefoot. On Saturday night
JNelhes feet were immediately put under the
lens Everyone who had a glass levelled it: those
people wno had no glasses borrowed, or snatched
glasses from people who themselves wanted to
inspect Nellie s feet, and who were enraged at the
deprivation. There is nothing to criticise in those
supports, save that there is too much make-up on
the toes. So Nellie looks as if she had bad chil-
blains.
* * * *
The story runs on the adoption of the
foundling by Mark Embury, the scholar and
scientist. Middle-aged philosophers do some-
times m real life lapse from sanity to the extent
of adopting a baby-girl, aged about 17 years, only
they have enough nous to go through the “for
better or for worse ceremony” right off—before
the gem is polished. Embury trains and educates
his foundling for two years, then, with a breaking
heart, yields her and a fine (home to his nephew,
a tightly-clothed, pig-tailed young officer.
Embury, the scholar, is played by Har-
court . Beatty one of the most finished actors
we have had down here. Captain George Lovell,
the brave who wins the fair (he hasn’t done any-
thing to deserve her), is represented by Sydney
Stuffing Roger Goodlake, the Scholar’s old con-
fidante (with a young wife on whom he dotes, and
who hoodwinks hirn shamefully), i s represented by
E. B. Russell. Miss Minnie Sadler makes
a real success of her hard, bright part as
!i )e ßfi d Q b^ a . y ? Ung , wife ‘ Emil y Levettez,
a f, * he Scholars housekeeper, would make any
old bachelor living in chambers stretch longing
hands m her direction—longing for her like.
Subsidiary characters deserving of a nibful of ink
j*® Alfred Tapping as a fiddler and professor of
deportment and Claude Flemming, beadle of the
Foundling Home. Mice and Men ”is a slender
«S 0n ’ sUfl5 U fl 18 skilfu !k padded and prettily
staged, and there are possibilities of profit in it.
Only the painting and decoration of Nellie
artist^ 8 feet reqmre revision by a oompetent
** * m
Arizona, in four acts and a glossary of
wdd west slang was presented at Sydney Palace
on Saturday last by a company of respectable all-
round merit a, company with no towering moun-
tain of genius it it, and no deep valley of incom-
petence It proved to be a melodrama of high-
,X ank nu P ° ksh T?. “ el °drama of the order
of Haddon Chambers Idler,” not of the dull
ponderous scenery order now turned out in
British drama-factories. “Arizona,” in fact for
two acts suggests rather a good comedy of the
Pinero school, but in the third act it lapses into
unnecessary and melodramatic sensationalism,
coming back to a higher art place towards the end.
What seems a stiff improbability in the first act—
Hod^fn« U n ti<?n ° f ¥ ra - Bonham £or the villainous
hTWa made . at least conventionally pos-
■Rnf ' T su g'&estion of hypnotic influence.
maJri^? th ’ par j °( Mra - Bonham-a woman
hXnd t0 r. a / e 'l 0te i d thou & h somewhat elderly
with a d ’ m »n ady v, to - b ® snar ® d into an elopement
ho “ mostly anxious that she
to the b T dl amonds to lend ornament
to the sm, and yet, withal, not a wanton
h« P robablllt y in a drama. She could
be made more natural - seeming in a novel
make “tW* „ anal J sis , ° f the .motives which
Jrf M«? h * 1. 80 much of a mystery. The folly
exhiWwW 8 han V , how . ever . is neoessary to
exhibit the moral heroism of Lieut. Denton
pourtrayed as a fine type of manhood!
subsequent developments to a con-
S f ugg - esta rather than announces
forgiveness, are all skilful and
natural, with the single exception of a
mg T'U Gei !i e -’ i wblcb rushes into extrava-
SS”’ B ®‘ The dialogue is full of quaint humor.
nAif rSODS °A tbe P la y are human, even if, in one
” the * r conduct is unaccountable, and
mV*?™ a ff I /l Uch ? xa^e , rated as to be out of the
sort A r he - re uch American drama of this
wholesale price! 8 g *° Uke a consi Sument at
* • *
«. ? be pla f era are mostly up to the level of
Arizona, and they should find a more generous
appreciation vnth more familiarity with their
methods on the part of the audience. On Satur-
t w many g °- od P 01 ”*? were missed simply because
they were given their true value and not over-
s ressed. Daniel Frawley, as Denton, shows a
str« a V f ' tu* m s . en ,? u ® dialogue, and a cheerful
streak of humor in lighter parts, which stamp him
ea K pabl ? a j? tor -, Miss Eva Dennison, as
Bonita Canby, his fiancee, has the most attractive
of the feminine parts, and she plays with erace
and some strength. Miss Van Buren as M ra
Bonham, represents a thankless and tearful part!
Wf fi? Ctl ? n 31 5 0Wa * hat the management is at
least threatened with sagacity, for Miss Van
Buren is the beauty of the company, and her
personal charm secures for the unattractive
character at least a kindly toleration. Two who
e wMr r ° m a bi^ b level of general merit,
are Jeffrey Williams and Miss Christine Hill, as
Rancher Canby and his wife. They have delight-
ful character parts and, in the lady’s case
especially, make them a strong feature. C. R
Stanford aS T Tony Mustanc and Miss Valerie
Brenton as Lena Kellar also do well, but Harrv
Phmmer rather over-stresses Captain Hodgeman.
As Colonel Bonham, Harrington Reynolds cuts a
fine figure. In quite a host of minor parts sound
Tbe st age management is
slick, but the _ smallness of the stage makes
really good mounting impossible.
** * #
Tears still flow at Sydney Criterion, where
Miss Lashbrook completes a pathetic little storv
by dying nightly at five minutes past 11 o’clock,
and where Miss Beatrice Holloway is given away
every 24 hours to an astonished burglar, who
receives her with gratitudeand thegreatestsurprise
of his life. It is only once in a long while that an
actress comes along young and strong enough to
play the chubby hero in “Two Little Vagabonds” ;
and if the burglar had any idea how rare is the
actress who can fill the bill as well as Miss
Hollowa,y does it, he would want a lot more than
£lOO to release her. The only remark which
seems called for, m addition to those made last
week, is that J. Hesford, who is Dido Bunce, the
foolish burglar’s mate, affects a most artistio
stammer. There has been an epidemic of stutter-
ing on Sydney stages during the last few weeks,
(generally this stage stutter has proved to be the
last resort of a play-writer bankrupt of wit, and
the poor little trick has deserved nothing but
silent contempt or a brick; but, anyhow, Hesford
makes the best of a poor job. The piece, which
has been drawing good houses, will run another
week.
** * *
There is, these bitterly cold nights, a
special fitness about a drama with a raging fire at
a petroleum store in it, and William Anderson’s
current Lyceum production, “In the Shadow of
JNight,. can therefore be specially recommended.
I here is a rainstorm earlier in the show; and if
Mr. Anderson can turn that into another fire
scene, the piece will be recommended twice over
lhe petroleum-store fire is, by the way, one of the
Lyceum s very best managed sensations, and most
nights the curtain has to be run up two or three
rimes ‘ The Shadow of Night” is ahead of
most highly-seasoned melodramas in general con-
struction, and G. P, Carey’s villainy is something
Sp6Cld.it
** * *
The movement to work up a big testi-
momal benefit to that good and popular old-time
manager and scenic artist, Mr. W. J. Wilson
grows rapidly. All the companies at present in
Sydney have promised their assistance, and the
affair will be under the patronage of Governor
and Lady Rawson, also it will be aided and
beamed upon by all that is worth mentioning in
soma! and political circles. Miss Essie Jenyns
(Mrs. Wood), whose Rosalind and many other
characters gladdened the tail-end of last century,
is among the cordial supporters of the movement,
and it has the approval of Dan O’Connor.
#* * #
At Sydney Tivoli Rudinoff shows what a
versatile amuser he is by singing in a fine baritone
voice—suggesting that of the late lamented
Charles Ryley, with a tinge of Brownlow in the
low notes. His whistling continues to be admir-
able and his smoke pictures wonderful, but a
lightning sketch of Sydney Harbor which he
attempts is emphatically not a success. It
suggests the subject neither in form nor in color.
Miss Maud Perman and the two Colliers, new
arrivals, add some brightness to the Tivoli enter-
tainment.
** # *
Melbourne rolled up mulfcitudinously to
■^ ei L.-^Ai es^y,s Saturday to take the measure
of J.C.W.’s musical comedy co. in the opening
of a six weeks’season with “Belle of New York.”
!nu 0 verdlct was nofc ver J pronounced either way.
There are numerous distinctions between “The
Belle’’and the orthodox musical comedy, which
confines itself to two set scenes and avoids all ap-
Searance of endeavoring to take itself seriously.
lungs are different in “The Belle.” The story
has various moods and several scenes, and the two
principal girls are understood to choke with
emotion on acoount of a contrite young man
who works out his salvation at a candy
store. They are strictly impossible girls—one
of them starts her stage life as the centre orna-
ment in a wedding cake, and the other plays a
lone hand with a Salvarmy tambourine—yet they
aspire to realism as regards Ichabod Bronson’s
prodigal son. Also, the young man is supposed to
feel deeply for both of them. Ichabod, his parent,
likewise has oases of pensiveness in his desert of
frivolity, and a Polite Lunatic, who ambles in and
out of the narrative seeking the Bronson he would
destroy, is another candidate for sympathy when
he puts his hand to his addled head and dimly
remembersthat hedoesn’t know what he’sthinking
about. “ The Belle of New York’’ bristles with
peculiarities, amusing and otherwise. A pair of puer-
ile Portuguese twins are quite foreign to Australian
notions of humor. A stereotyped tragedian,
named Mugg, might drop out of the performance
and never be missed, which remark applies to an
irrelevant Kissy Fitzgarter. The loss of even
Blinky Bill and his donah could be borne without
a pang of regret. But the music of “ The Belle ”
is sweet and lively, and the story contains a kernel
of human kindness, and the fact that two or three
of the characters have become classics in musical
comedy literature must be counted for virtue in
the author’s work. Ichabod Bronson and the
Lunatic are creations. The girl in the poke
bonnet is a personage. She was the first female to
shed a pure serene light upon the eternal hug—in
comic opera.
** * *
The best-selected company in the world
c ° u ld give a more or less delightful performance
of “Belle of New York.” Each of the principal
parts is an elastic opportunity for the artist who
plays it. The co. came to Melbourne as strangers,
but in its collective form it struck the present
writer on his bump of disappointment. Miss Rose
Musgrove didn’t rise to expectations. Fred
Graham’s sketch of Bronson, sen., looks like a
small and labored copy of a previous Ichabod
drawn from other people’s memories. Arthur
Crane is a pleasant Bronson, jun., with a good
tenor-baritone voice ; and Miss Lilian Digges is a
greatly improved edition of Maud Chetwynd. She
has a dainty way, a note of feeling in her voice, and
the promise of doing betterpresently. Missßlanche
Wallace, although she can’t sing or dance to speak
u 18 <f compensation for the awfulness of
the “Queen of Comic Opera,” whom Melbourne
suffered aforetime. Miss Olive Lenton threatens
to be rather charming in a more congenial charac-
ter.™ an Blinky’s donah, and the other people are
satisfactory, with one or two exceptions. The
good-looking chorus might show further intelli-
gence and vivacity. On Saturday it was a chorus
that often shaped itself like a horse-shoe on the
outskirts of the entertainment and wearily
■wagged its head when the conductor shook a stick
at it. One gets so tired of the chorus that wags
and nods its head.
** * *
At Melbourne Princess’s six nights and
one matinee of “The Fortune Teller” are
keeping Musgrove’s Opera Co. fully employed
until Friday. The strong points of “The For-
tune Teller ” obtrude themselves as before, also
the weak points appear again, and the general
gorgeousness has lost a little glitter since the first
time Melbourne heard the big brown Sandor sing
to his little gipsy sweetheart. All the same the
alleged Hungarian opera offers much splendor for
the money, and the music is rather impressive,
and the difficulty in discovering which of two
girls is being impersonated by Madame Slapoffski
at any given period of the enigma provides the
public with healthful mental exercise. No other
comic opera put such a severe strain upon popular
intelligence. Amidst the tumult and stress of the
grand finale to the second act it is hard for any
ordinary person to remember that one Madame
Slapoffski is being mistaken for two distinct girls
and a twin brother simultaneously. Next Satur-
day (18th) brings “ The Serenade ” to light for the
first time in Australia. “The Serenade” is a
three-act opera by the musical author of “ The
Fortune Teller,” and the characters have rich
Spanish names, which occasionally begin with Y
and frequently end with Z.
The Westminster Abbey Glee Party’s first
Melbourne concert came more than up to expec-
tations. Really choice concerted singing, blending
smoothly in a delicate vocal mosaic, is none too com-
mon in a country where choirs and choral societies
are apt to impress by loudness rather than quality.
The “Abbey” warblers, numbering: ten only (five
men and five boys), supply enough sound to satisfy
a Town Hall audience, and better sound, at that,
than the ordinary choral bulk-harmony. Avoiding
the showy on the one hand and the mean on the
other, the choristers interpret in excellent style
ancient and modern English glees and ballads,
sound words set to staunch music. Their words
are distinct, their intonations true, and, in its own
way, one could scarcely hear anything more
pleasing than their “St. Michael’s Bells,”
the boys’ fresh voices accounting for the little
tinkling bells and the men attending to the
booming of the big ones. The five trebles’
treatment of “It was a Lover and his Lass”
came as a blessed relief after the cruel wrong that
Shakspearian doggrel suffered at the accents of
two small Austryiians, in recent production of
“As You Like It. ” As soloists, the members of
the Glee party are good enough, but not astound-
ing. Little Leonard Hubbard lilts Cowen’s
“Swallows” in tones clear and fresh as those of a
thrush. Director Branscombe, on Saturday,
made every word tell in a quaint old ballad’
“ The Lowland Sea.” Mdme. Marie Hooton put
full contralto expression and spirit into various
old-time ditties. Mr. Coward, a big man in the
“male alto” line, gave careful samples of his
peculiarity; and everybody on the programme
was recalled, including Dudley Causton, a
“musioal-sketoher.” The Abbey” Gleeatere
arr l v ® their third Town Hall concert to-night,
and Saturday will be their farewell occasion.
** * *
At Melb. Opera House, the Boissetts are
perpetrating their third pantomime—“ The Even-
ing Party”—which will bring them to a conclu-
sion on the 23rd inst., unless they revert to a
previous panto, for their farewell frivols. Two
new turns _ at the Rickards house are Lilian
-Bishop, a lively stranger with a pair of effective
legs, and Dan Crawley, who is said to imitate a
certain Dan. Leno, the idol of the London’alls,
h or Australian purposes Crawley promises to be
about as serviceable as Tom Wootwell, for if his
songs are not better than the average red-nosed
ditty, Daniel’s way of talking them is quaint and
cheerful.
#* * *
The “ Midsummer Night ” has brought all
Adelaide to the Royal, the pleasure of seeing a
variety entertainment, and, at the same time,
getting credit for patronising Shakspeare, being
the most subtle of all baits for the public. The
wonderfully built-up woodland banks of scenery,
the Mendelssohn music, the fairy spectacle, the
knock-about business and rollicking farce, all these
things combine to make an irresistible show, and
business has boomed accordingly. Denny as
Bottom, and Dorothy Marsden as Puck, perhaps
take chief honors (after the stage-manager), but
there is a solid all-round level of excellence in the
acting. With two small exceptions, the cast is the
same as in Melbourne. In face of this heavy
competition, the Tivoli struggles along with a
fairly good bill. Crawley, whose humor seemed
at times rather too fruity on closer acquaintance,
has passed on, and Fields of the eccentric jugglery
replaces him. Also, a very fine bass singer, in
the person of Ernest Fitts, has come into the
programme. The Branscombe Concert party
made itself extremely popular by staying to sing
at a Liedertafel “ smoker,” but it has gone at
last, angelic choristers, “society entertainer,”
and all.
The drowsy birds at dawn of day
Persistently are waking ;
The rooster times his morning lay,
His shrilly top-note shaking ;
And still the Great Australian Play
At Melbourne Royal pegs away—
The same old “ Drought is Breaking.”
The Wild Cat Column.
The Bank of North Queensland :
Recovered Dividend
from Debts . (2£ p.c.)
previously and Added Total
written Total Dividend to Re-
Profits, off. Revenue. Tax. Reserves serves
June, 1898.. £587 £587 £587 £587
Dec., 1898.. 1479 1479 1479 2066
June, 1899.. 1675 £BBl 2556 2556 4622
Dec., 1899.. 2700 2700 £1313 1387 6009
June, 1900.. 2557 901 3458 1313 2145 8154
Dec., 1900.. 2368 1540 3908 1313 2595 10,749
June, 1901.. 2424 2424 1313 1111 11,860
Dec., 1901.. 2536 2536 1313 1223 13,083
June, 1902.. 2038 2038 1313 725 13,808
Dec., 1902.. 2007 680 2687 1313 1374 15,182
June, 1903,. 2153 2153 1313 840 16,022
The profits, though better than those for 1902, are rather
below the average of the last few years ; yet, considering
the general state of things in Queensland and Australia,
they are quite as good as could be expected. The
position compares with that of 12 months’ ago
June, 1902. June, 1903. Increases.
Reserves .. ..£13,808 £16,022 £2 214
Premises, &c. .. .'. 20,027 21,776 1,749
Half-year’s Profits .. 2,038 2,153 115
Bills Payable .. .. 41,486 ' 48,735 7,249
Advances .. .. 298,422 322,126 23,704
Deposits .. .. 236,311 257,108 20,797
Cash and Liquid Assets 123,501 112,610 8 ’
Debentures, 4£ p.c. .. 15,700 Nil 15,700
This shows an improving business. Certainly cash and
liquid securities held have been somewhat reduced ; but
against that, there is not only the increase in ad-
vances, but the unprofitable interminable 4J per cent,
debentures have all been bought up. The cash and
liquid securities held are still equal to 33 per cent, of the
total liabilities to the public, which is a figure that few
institutions reach. In fact, if a very much larger bank
kept that much in its safe,.it would be reckoned waste-
ful. Still, more than half of what the North Queensland
has is working ; this half includes £25,750 invested in
Government stock. What with being expected to main-
tain a larger proportion of reserves than the big concern,
and what with being almost necessarily less economically
worked, the small bank cannot, however, show very
alluring profits ; on the shareholders’ funds at commence-
ment of half year (capital £lOO,OOO and reserves £15,182),
they work out at £3 14s. Bd. per cent, per annum. This
compares with past results in this way :
Per cent. p er cent
Dec., 1900 ..£4 7 7 I June, 1902 ..£3 12 1
June, 1901 ..4 7 6 Dec., 1902 ..3 13 7
Dec., 1901 .. 410 8 j June, 1903 .. 314 8
It is small; but a very solid proportion of it goes to re-
serves, and the customer is better secured than in many
a big bank, for the capital in proportion to the business
is much larger than the big bank’s average.
* * * *
Various British papers have warmly congratu-
lated Irvine and his Raven on the Victorian surplus—
evidently it was simply cabled to them that there was a
surplus, and in their simple British way they regarded it
as genuine. The fact that the ordinary Australian State
surplus of £150,000 is made by stealing £200,000 or
£300,000 of sinking funds and loan funds, and using them
as revenue, is evidently not yet fully realised over there.
* * * *
f [Out of a sum-total of £142,000 already raised by
the Queensland Income Tax, some £40,000 has been
raised by the Poll Tax. That is to say some 80,000 poor
wretches with an income of less than £lOO (many of them
with much less than £5O) have had to contribute half-a-
sovereign apiece out of their bread-monev.
* * * “ *
Westralia is going to the bad over its metro-
politan as well as over its goldfields water-supply. Present
charges give the Perth water-supply a revenue of under
£37,000. The capital cost was £430,000 ; and 4 per cent,
interest and a sinking fund of only 1 per cent absorb
£21,500, leaving something under £15,500 to cover work-
ing costs. And working costs for the 11 months ending
May 31 amounted to £26,905. At this rate, the under-
taking isn’t really paying interest, not to mention sinking
fund. s
» * * *
J.M.V. (Canterbury): The 8.N.Z., at date of
last report, had nearly £4,000,000 cash and securities in
London. Some of the others employ a lot of their Maori-
land deposits in Australia, simply because they get better
interest here... .Boppy : A promising show, 30 miles from
Lobar ; ore (about loz. stuff) hard, but easily won
J. Roller Have no information G.H. : Failure to dis-
close the fact will very likely lead to trouble. As you
have paid only one premium, it certainly would not be
wise to pay more before getting the matter settled.
Better communicate the facts to the office, and some
arrangement might be made. Amount of “loading”
would probably depend a good deal on habits and family
I the largest and best in the WORLD !
The Mutual Life Insurance Co. of New York
Admitted Assets, January l, 1903, £78,528,000.
Principal Agency in Australasia; Company’s Building-, Martin Place, Sydney.
Manager.
Patriotism Exalteth a Nation.
n!tr;^ y n - 0t b Ji q l lte , ? l 'thodox, but it is nevertheless true. It is also a fact that in N.S.W
whpJp Tp S r dlj a p kln f _f n ]t ® people. Parochialism and selfishness are rampant every*,
nfwmiii'm Par > la “ en t and People. Instead of AUSTRALIAN MANUFACTURED GOODS
of equal merit to the Foreign-made Article being preferred, they are only taken if CHEAPER
r h ° ? ry th ? i? udeBt * .“AUSTRALIA FOR THE AUSTRALIANS ! "-even to
°. f keeping out the English Hatters—are those who, from pure prejudice call
F °/ eign -^ e^ rtlc i e ln P refere .nce to the Australian production. This is not the
spirit that prevails in America, and which has made it the greatest country on the face of
the earth. There nothing is good unless it is “ ’Murkan,” and so it must he here if we are
nf'fn ablon ' ? he P° 8 . ewa rae Packing Co., Limited, have lately added to the other
branches of their canning business the manufacture of Potted Ham and other Meats in
w>TT^ , r d m^ ur ’ ounce * ilnS- The packages are neatly got up, the contents are AT T FAST
AND THE PRICE IS LOWER THAN, THE P IMPORTED ARTICLE
patriotic enough to give them a trial, and you will find that they are REALLY GOOD
They may be had from all the Principal Storekeepers and Grocers.


history Hertzog: A most dangerous stock to have
anything to do with. It has had its boom, and the pub-
lic wasi so badly bitten that it is likely to fight shy
of it. It would have to be some very remarkable
development which would lead to a genuine improvement
in market-values. The shares are in few hands, and the
holders are past-masters in the art of working the
market for all it is worth.
• • * *
The Rotal Bane of Queensland
Added
Dividend and to Re- Re.
Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Dec., 1897..7440 2£ per cent. = 5075 2365 40,685
June, 1898.. 7460 {Written off ” 3000} ~ *°> o7o
Dec., 1898..7579 2J per cent. = 5075 2504 42,574
June, 1899 7830 2£ „ ~ 5075 2755 45,329
(£1463 capital forfeited and written off)
Dec., 1899..8322 2£ per cent. = 5056 3266 48,695
June, 1900..8384 {| ritte ” ofl " £s} ~ *8,423
Dec., 1900..8434 2£ per ceDt. = 5056 3378 61,801
June, 1901..8657 2£ „ „ 6056 3601 65,402
Dea, 1901..8768 -fpref. 3} P ,’, a }“ 6080 ]- 65,080
l Written off 3000 J
June, 1902.. 9024 1 *6700 2324 67,404
Dec., 1902..8646 jjj P ° - =7223 1423 58,827
June, 1903..9052 J =7227 1825 60,652
At the commencement of the half-year the shareholders
funds amounted to £515,754 (£456,927 capital and £58,827
reserves) ; on this the earnings were equal to £3 10s. 2d.
per cent, per annum. This compares with recent results
as follows:
June, 1900 .. £317 3 p.c. June, 1902 .. £3 17 0 p.c*
Dec., 1900 .. 317 9 „ Dec., 1902 .. 3 810 „
June, 1901 .. 319 3 „ June, 1903 .. 310 2 „
Dec., 1901 .. 319 6 „
The paid-up capital continues to grow a little ; on Dec.
31 last it was £456,927, and on June 30 it was £457,354
or £427 more. This is apparently the result of the
gradual issue of the authorised preference shares.
How much of the capital is represented by preference
and how much by ordinary shares is, however, still
a mystery. But, though authority was got to raise
£300,000 by preference shares, very few appear to have
been actually issued. On the entire paid-up capital at
the commencement of the half-year £6853 would have
paid a 3 per cent, dividend. The amount actually paid,
allowing 3£ per cent, for the preference shares, is only
£3O more than this ; so preference capital issued seems to
be £12,000. It would be better to distinguish between
the two issues in the balance-sheet. Principal figures
compare as follows with those of 12 months back
June, 1902. June, 1903. Increases.
Reserves _ ... £57,404 £60,652 £3,248
Shareholders’ funds .. 602,366 515,754 13,388
Premises, &c. .. 61,815 62,841 1,026
Half-year’s profit .. 9,024 9,052 28
Bills payable .. .. 9,498 8,720 £778
Cash and liquid assets .. 344,021 286,805 57,216
Advances 1,025,549 1,008,210 17,339
Deposits 879,322 790,402 88,920
This exhibits a rather serious contraction in business
generally ; nevertheless, as compared with the work of
the half-year which ended on Dec. 31 last, there is an im-
provement in respect of both advances and deposits.
Cash and liquid assets are lower than usual. Including
£59,918 Government stock on hand, they are equal to 34
per cent, of total liabilities to the public, as against 36
per cent, six months ago, and 37 per cent. 12 months ago.
It is, nevertheless, a very solid reserve still.
* * * *
Every State in the Commonwealth, barring
only Tasmania, closed its financial year on June 30 ; Tas-
mania’s year ends on December 31. The full and final
figures which show the deficit, or *how the deficit has
been -dodged, are not yet available ; but there is enough
to go. on .with, and it is not likely that anything more
definite will be forthcoming for some time.
New South Wales does not pretend to have a
surplus. The position is something like this
12 months’ Revenue
(Excluding Harbor 12 months’ 12 months’
Trust and Expenditure. Deficit.
Resumptions).
1902 .. £10,903,439 £11,190,963 £287,524
1903 .. 11,210,734 11,519,617 308,883
Inc. £307,295 Inc. £328,654 Inc. £21,359
This is not really a correct statement of the case as
regards 1903, for a large expenditure is still “in sus-
pense,” and when it is adjusted and brought into the
accounts things will be vastly worse than they look now.
If the rents for the Harbor foreshore properties (not yet
by any means all paid for) are included, the position can
be made to look a trifle better ; but, though the Treasurer
goes on including these amounts, the operation is utterly
wrong, and the effect produced by that juggle is simply
an illusion. Nevertheless it is give® here for what it is
worth
12 Months’ Reve- 12 Months’ Ex-
nue (Including penditure (Ex-
Rents from Pro- eluding Sus-
perties not Paid pense Pavments
for, &c.) for 1903). Deficit,
1902 .. £11,178,214 £11,190,963 £12,749
Nominal
Surplus,
1903 .. 11,532,133 11,519,617 £12,516
Inc. £353,919 Inc. £328,654
But, while the amount stated as revenue includes really
more than revenue, the amount stated as expenditure for
the past year does not include all the expenditure.
Money actually spent, but not yet formally authorised,
is not included, on the ground that until the expenditure
has been authorised it is not certain which amounts
should be charged to revenue and which to loans. If the
whole of this unauthorised expenditure were charged
to revenue, the total expenditure would amount to
£12,624,954. The total Treasury receipts, including
advances (£845,246), amounted to £12,377,379 ; so, on this
fairer basis, the deficit was £247,575, as against a deficit
of £84,595 on the same basis in the previous year. This
presentment of the case is complicated by the item of
“advances to the Treasurer”; these advances were in-
creased by £278,705 during the year. A large amount of
thisls f however, no doubt recoverable. If it is not, then
the deficit is more than £247,575, even when the whole of
the Harbor rents are improperly included as revenue. To
this cash shortage must be added the shortage of
£236,781 inherited from last year, making a present
deficiency in the cash of £484,356. And Premier
Owe’See says that things are very satisfactory indeed!
First this country had deficits, and was ashamed Of them,
and said they shouldn’t occur again. Then it had more
deficits, and, being still ashamed of them, tried to cover
them up. Now it has more deficits, and openly confesses
the fact, and, so far from being ashamed, declares that
the position is quite satisfactory. It is a shocking state
of mind for a country to drift into.
The N.S.W. position would, however, be a good
deal worse than it is but for the unexpectedly large refunds
from the Commonwealth. .In June alone, £375,514 was
received from this source, or £243,860 more than in June,
1902. For the whole year the refunds were £667,227
more than for the preceding year. It isn’t the Owe’See
Government’s fault that the deficit is not a quarter-of-a-
million more. It is even less New South Wales’ fault;
for New South Wales did a good deal more than its share
in sending a low-tariff crowd to the Australian Parlia-
ment, and in subsequently howling for the remission of
the fodder duties.
The N.S.W. loan expenditure looks fairly
respeccable compared with that of 1902. This is owing,
mostly, to the great difficulty in getting loans during the
past six months :
1902 1?03
jg £ *» ■
°r‘Su I Z‘° ElP ”: «.«»,» M«W»» D.c. 671,192
■‘CTSS-'SttSJ 1,831,640 W7M» 100. _B4MB_9
£6,028,805 £4,802,762 Dec.£226,053
The position of Victoria is somewhat less de-
finitely stated; until the alleged fact that there is ai sur-
plus has soaked well into the people who will presently
be asked to advance a few miHions, there are severa l
good reasons why the position should not be> statedl de-
finitely. Taking the figures as issued by the Treasury,
the result is:—
Revenue. Expenditure.
1902 .. £7,006,333 £7,407,781 Deficit £401,448
1903 .. 6,951,980 6,798,781 Surplus 153,199
Dec. £54,353 Dec. £609,000 Gain £554,647
How much of the alleged revenue was true revenue, and
how much of it was looted from sinking funds, &c.,
cannot yet be stated. The revenue was, moreover,
increased by Commonwealth refunds £234,000 in excess
of Treasurer Turner’s estimate. So far as the depart-
ments controlled by Irvine, Bent, Shiels and Co. are con-
cerned , Victoria would thus have had a deficit of about
£Bl,OOO in spite of the manipulation of trust accounts and
of the extraordinary slaughter on the expenditure side.
As to the latter item, the chief “ savings ” have been
made by paying the railway staff short time while often
working it long time (£172,654); and by letting the
engines rust and the permanent way fall to pieces another
£111,799 has been “ saved.” The old-age pensioner’s poor
dole has been squeezed down £70,000 further ; and this
squeezing process is still going on. The other “economies”
have been effected by starving the road-vote, by spending
little or nothing on repairs, by demoralising other ser-
vices as well as the railways, and by neglecting to put in
the stitch which saves nine. To the extent, then, that
Victoria’s isn’t a fraud surplus, it is a fool surplus.
South Australia olaims a surplus, too ; this one
was acquired by hanging round the office of the trustees
in the estate of the late George Scarfe, and getting a little
on account. Still, although S.A., too, has been letting
its public works fall to pieces rather than show a deficit
by using revenue for the purpose of keeping them in
repair, S.A. has not done so badly. It has had a
good deal of luck ; it has had a better harvest than
usual, got better prices for its products, and therefore
collected mere income and land-tax. Moreover,
12 months ago S.A. did make an attempt to stop the
drift by increasing both these taxes, and the result has
been an addition of £81,541 to the revenue. The Trea-
surer estimated that he would get £65,000 from probate
and succession duties, which the previous year gave
£61,000; he actually received £104,027, ineluding £36,000
which were the fruits of the visit to Scarfe’s trustees, just
before the clock struck July 1. The total revenue for the
year was £2,472,266 against £2,428,560 in the previous
year—an increase of £43,706. For the first nine months
of the year the expenditure was £1,820,029, which was
£7185 less than three-quarters of the estimated total for
the year. It is pretty certain that the expenditure was
not largely increased during the last three months, so
that the estimate of expenditure was not exceeded.
Taking the actual revenue and the estimated expendi-
ture the position would be :
Revenue.. .. „ M £2,472,266
Expenditure .. .. _ 2,436,286
Surplus .. .. .. £35,980
Considering the unusual crop of probate and succession
duties, the general and unusual prosperity of the State,
and the neglect to keep the public works in repair (as
lately sworn to by the Engineer-in-Ohief), this isn’t much
to be proud of. Through the Broken Hill trouble S.A.’s
new financial year makes a worse start than usual; so
the outlook is not too promising. The deficit for 1902
was £222,316, so it would take near seven such surpluses
as the present one to make good that one year’s shortage.
Queensland owns the largest deficit of the
group, taking population into account
Revenue. Expenditure. Deficit.
1902 .. .. £3,535,062 £3,967,001 £431,939
1903 .. .. 3,526,465 3,717,806 191,341
Decrease .. £8,597 £249,195 £240,598
Again the situation has to some extent been saved by
Australian Ministers Kingston and Turner, who, to the
disgust of some part of Brisbane, declined to allow the
Customs to be swindled as formerly, and were, therefore,
able to return to the State £905,000, instead of £809,000
which Treasurer Turner had estimated, mainly on the
basis of previous State experiences. The income tax,
largely a poll tax, added £141,894 of entirely new revenue;
land revenue gave £38,000 more ; but in almost every
other line the 1902 figures were not reached.
For a State already possessing the heaviest debt per head
of any country in the world the expenditure of loan
money was still extravagant— £1,022,404 against
£1,161,688 in 1902. The railways, upon which have
been spent about £45 per head of the people, had a
deficit of £384,165, equal to about 13s. 9d. per head.
The bill for interest on the whole public debt was
£1,509,182 ; for every £1 spent on education Queensland
sent £4 15s. 6d. to J. Bull by way of interest; and,
while the interest bill keeps growing, the education
bill, naturally enough, shrinks. More retrenchment
(that is to say, more cutting down of the money spent on
education and so on) is now proposed. Queensland can’t
cut down the interest bill if it wanted to ; and its ruling
gang hasn’t pluck enough to ask the other absentees that
bleed it to contribute fairly to the much too small reve-
nue. So it proposes further to add to its troubles by
borrowing some more; it has been “ watching the market
for some months, and thinks that the time is now almost
opportune.” Poor Queensland 1
Westralia, for 11 months only—it takes time
for complete returns to get across the continent:—
11 months’ 11 months’
Revenue. Expenditure.
1902 £3,299,928 £2,983,381 Surplus, £316,547
1903 3,267,486 3,093,677 „ 173,809
Dec. £32,442 Inc. £110,296 Dec. £142,738
And for the two Mays only
Revenue Expenditure
for May. for May. .
1902 £299,394 £317,475 Deficit, £lB,OBl
1903 273,743 288,112 „ 14,369
Dec. £25,651 Dec. £29,363
Though Westralia still had a deficit on the month’s
transactions, it was not so serious a one as that for April.
If there were many more months in the year the State’s
surplus would have disappeared; as it was, the year
ended with something substantial to the good. Accord-
ing to telegrams it was about £93,000.
Tasmania’s returns are for six months only, and
then only as to revenue. The two half-years’ revenue
compares :
First half, 1902 .. £346,579
First half, 1903 .. 402,658
Increase .. £56,079
This improvement is also mainly due to large refunds
from the Federal Treasurer.
Summarising the result of the year’s State
finance, then, so far as the data available allow, this is
about how things stand :
Revenue. Expenditure.
(а) N.S. Wa1e5..£12,377,379 £12,624,954 Deficit£247,s7s
Queensland .. 3,526,465 3,717,806 Deficit 191,341
(б) Victoria .. 6,951,980 6,798,781 Surplus 1E3.199
(c) S. Australia. 2,472,266 2,436,286 Surplus 35,980
(c) Westralia .. 3,728,000 3,635,000 Surplus 93,000
( а ) N.S.W.— Or, if rents from resumed properties (some
not paid for) are excluded from revenue, the deficit is
£568,974.
(б) Vic.—lncluding amounts of uncertain size impro-
perly included as revenue.
(«) S. Aus. and Westralia.—Figures approximate only.
Rain-fakir M‘Car thy having failed to relieve it,
droughty Broken Hill now puts its trust in the Owe’Sul-
livan ; and, one way and another, it is hoped that enough
water will be got to keep the mines ana works running
on two shifts before long. To obtain this result half-a-
dozen sources of supply will be tapped. The Broken Hill
Prop, has built itself a large temporary condensing plant,
and will pump mineralised water from every available
abandoned shaft in the neighborhood. This supply is not
large, for even mineralised water is scarce in a desert,
but it will help. The Water Co. is now also draining the
silt and the underlying bed of sand in the reser-
voir. More dependence is, however, placed on
the arrangement which has been made between
the N.S.W. and S.A. Governments, under which
800,000 gallons of water will be trucked up from S.A.
every week, the States dividing the cost. This water will
be brought from the railway dams along the line. The
State was faced with the alternative of feeding 15,000 or
20,000 people, or practically subsidising the mining in-
dustry to a rather less amount in order to keep them at
work, and it wisely decided that the latter was the better
business. Whether the scheme will work out all right
depends a good deal on the ability of the B.H. Prop, to
condense the mine water on a large scale ; if it cannot do
that, then the 800,000 gallons will not go far. Of those
men who cannot be given places on the mines as many as
possible will be employed on the new waterworks at
Umberumberka, which have already been commenced, in
anticipation of Parliamentary sanction. Now that it has
been clearly shown that the existing means of supply are
inadequate that sanction will presumably be forthcoming.
* * * *
Crowl Creek mine, Shuttleton (N.S.W.), is
developing in the deep ground beyond the most sanguine
expectations of its owners, and there can now hardly be
a question as tft its soon becoming one of the leading
copper mines of the State. Furnaces are in course of
erection, and should be in blast in about two months.
At last the public is beginning to nibble at the shares ;
there are numerous buyers and few sellers. It is a case
of “give a dog a bad name” which has caused the
speculative people of Melbourne to hold aloof from the
stock so long. The men who were fortunate enough to
purchase the mine for a mere song compared with its
actual value had a consistent run of ill-luck in N.
Queensland and other ventures, and thus, for a time,
they lost their power to lead the public.
• • • •
Advices from London indicate that the Great
Cobar (N.S.W.) deal has been practically completed. The
capital of the new co. is to be £2,000,000, as recommended
by Kendall, the expert who examined the properties, or,
as he puts it, an equivalent to four years’ purchase on his
estimates and suggested systems of working. Instead of
being paid for in instalments as originally arranged, it is
understood that the purchase money will be paid in a lump
sum in August. It is stated that about £250,000 of the
capital has been underwritten in N.S.W., which is some-
what a surprising circumstance in a community where
the penchant is to speculate in small, worthless cats.
“ Sessil ”: A year ago the Vegetable Greek
(N.S.W.) tin field was in a bad state; the lack of water
prevented washing. Therefore the local lip was droopy,
and there was lamentation in the streets of Emmaville.
Now the place is experiencing a strictly modified boom.
The Consols is being pumped dry—naturally with the
idea of floating it again. Some men are winning fair tin
at the Nine Mile. M'Dowal and party’s star claim at
Silent Grove is working smoothly. The lode pinched,
but a shot uncovered it in full body again. The five men
working have sold £2OOO worth of tin this year and
have much at grass. It is a contact lode between slate
and granite and was prospected in the first place by an
old miner, who took a large quantity of bismuth from it
and regarded it solely as a bismuth show. Romer and
Olive have a very promising lode close by. At the
“Gulf” some selectors from the flat country struck fairly
good tin on land that had been walked over by a genera-
tion of prospectors. It is said that, after the find was
made, tin was found lying on the grass around it. Parker
and Sons have struck a patch of very rich wash dirt and .
are doing remarkably well. At Torrington prospectors
are making fair wages. Carr’s pertinacious little lode at
the “ Gulf” still yields the nice little income that it has
produced for a generation. There are fairly reliable
reports of a good find by a Government-aid man in the
rough country near Kangaroo Flat. If correct this will
lead to the development of a large tract. Asserted by
some that the Emmaville field is played out. Recent
developments suggest that it has not been properly
prospected
C. Towers (N.Q.) looks very healthy. With the
exception of the Brilliant Central and Day Dawn Gold
Mines, divs. are likely to be maintained, and several
shows, including Queen Central, North Queen, New
Queen and Phoebe, look like reaching the dividend stage
before very long. Marshall’s Queen, now all the dead
work is completed, should contribute appreciably to the
div. total, and Brilliant Extended is, with an increased
output, a certain addition. Craven’s Caledonia, owing to
poorness of crushing, has suspended stone raising and
goes on with sinking straight. Day Dawn gold mine for
some reason has sacked 40 men off stone and is pushing
on with underlie to test deeper ground. Plant’s Deep
Lead, on the western deep country, has floated, Brilliant
Central directors having invested their reserves in 70,000
of the Deep Lead scrip. Wallis’ Day Dawn at the S.W.
corner of the field looks promising. The host of pups of
the Ruby P.C. are feeling their way downwards
steadily. On the north the Deep Levels is plugging per-
sistently after a reef of some sort or other. Around the
Queen everything is being urged along in the new shows
on the strength of the Queen Central striking the Queen
Cross Reef at any moment. Two further-out boom-floats,
the East Victoria and Queen and the Wonder and Surprise
have sensibly amalgamated, and are vigorously explor-
ing. Clark’s Worcester is in the dumps, practically only
tributors’ stone being raised. Victory, under pressure
from English holders, is likely to be reconstructed—or
possibly sold as a going concern.
The surprise of the month on Charters Towers
(N.Q.)has been the sudden resurrection of the Imperial,
an outside show. Present co., in four years, spent
£ll,OOO and gold won, and reached an advertisement
calling shareholders to consider liquidation. Scrip stood
at Id., the lower levels were abandoned, and a last
crushing of 60 tons from the No. 2 west level was going
through. Nobody expected anything ; but when the
directors went to the mill for the clean up, instead of
a bar of 500 z., one of 2530 z. awaited them. The news
caused a rush of call-payers, anxious to keep their scrip,
said rush and proceeds of gold leaving the co. hand-
somely in credit. Scrip now, after touching 25., stands
at seller, Is. 6d.; and liquidation meeting is postponed
for one month.
* * * *
Be the hifalutin of Caldwell, who recently filled
up several Australian papers with the yarn that the
Rhodesia Exploration and Development Co. was putting
a few hundred millions intoCloncurry (N.Q.), it is printed
in London that the co.’s name was used without autho-
rity. All that has happened, it is explained, is that
another lot of African brigands have put up £lO,OOO and
hold an option over the properties, upon which they are
having a report made.
* * * *
Westralia Mt. Morgans is pushing on develop-
ments, the main shaft being down over 600 ft. Five levels
are being driven, and large reserves have been laid bare.
Two lodes are being developed, the main, or east, lode
which passes through the shaft at 550 ft., and the new, or
west, lode. Most work is being done on the former. At
the 200 ft. level the east lode runs up to 40ft. wide, while
at the 300 ft. it bulges out to 95ft. and averages 60ft. for a
distance of 240 ft. In places the ore is very rich, running
up to several ounces to the ton. Co. is earning a profit
on 15dwt. ore of £6OOO a month, so can easily afford to
continue quarterly divs. of a share, or £15,000. Of
its 500,000 shares it has now issued 480,000, 22,000 having
been recently placed at 30s. apiece to cover cost of addi-
tions and alterations to plant. The fortunes of this co.
T *i.^ ee S buil ? n P rom very small beginning's. Origin-
ally two Tremain mills were installed, which were even-
tually displaced by a 20-head mill bought from the
defunct wild cat, Golden Cliffs. Last October this mill
was scrapped ’’ in favor of 60 head of heavy stamps,
one of the best equipments on the fields.
* * * *
Little Wonder, Nullagine (W.A.), well de-
<>KoViB k* name - The lucky holders have gouged out
tons ore, which has yielded 23420 z., worth £BBOO.
Ihis is one side of gold-mining, the deserted dumps all
over the country show the other.
* * * *
South Kalgurli (W.A.) is to be given another
to me , w ith an available cash capital of
IQ nnn Frank . Gardner has agreed to take up the
18,000 reserve shares at 225. 6d. on condition that a new
AA^ ormed ' vith a nom inal capital of £200,000, or
£60,000 more than the old co. As each shareholder in
tne old co. will, in addition to being allotted share for
snare in the new co., be entitled to apply for one new
share at the isshe price of 225. 6d. for every three held,
Frank.will be entitled to 6000 of the new scrip at 225. 6d.
Mine is to be run by Ralph Nichols, manager of the
Perseverance, and if there is any hope for it (and he
should know) this astute ’Murkan and his clever under-
study, Flynn, should soon show it. The present treat-
ment-plant will be dismantled, and an up-to-date process
substituted. In this property what is known as Morty’s,
or Perseverance, lode has been utterly neglected, as it
proved poor at the junction of the oxidised and sulphide
zones. As this is the best lode in the Perseverance, and
has been proved of good width and grade right up to the
South’s boundary at several levels, it is pretty safe to
Eredict that good ore continues, and has not been cut off
y an imaginary boundary line. The co. should soon
come on the div. list once it re-enters the ranks of the
producers, though some development will first have to be
undertaken.
**. • *
Queen Margaret (W.A.) is making rapid strides
with its new property, the South Gippsland. At the
285 ft. level the south drive is in about 270 ft., all in pay
ore. As this is a great deal further than the original
holders drove in the shallow levels, the backs for a good
part of this distance go right up to the surface. At the
intermediate level nearly 150 ft. of driving has been done,
while at 185 ft. the level is in 120 ft. The reef runs from
6in. to 3ft., and averages about 2ft. The last clean-up
reads 4500 z. from 240 tons. All the ore so far treated
comes exclusively from developments, no stoping having
been done. The 10-head mill has only run half-time, or
12 hours, as the kibble used in the shaft has been unable
to haul more dirt. Cages will shortly be used, and the
mill will then run full time. The output should be nearly
IOOOoz. monthly.
It is reported that the Elmore oil-concentrating
Srocess, which has been experimented upon at the L.V.
onsols(W.A.), has been condemned.
(Continued on page SO.)
TRAMWAYS FOR MINES.
EOONOMY (N HAULAGE.—Horse and dray is cheaper than a wheelbarrow, but an
up-to-date Tramway, with suitable rolling stock for manual, horse or loco, traction,
is still more economical and expeditious. Large Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane
stocks of Steel. Rails, Mining Tip-trucks, Portable Tramway, Switches, Turntables, &c.
INDENTS—Dog-spikes to Compound Locomotives— i.e., EVERYTHING.
£OT Our, CATALOGUE is yours for the asking.
CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Prop. Ltd., 40 Hunter St., SYDNEY. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager.
Representing Orenstein and Koppel, Lm, London, Berlin and Paris.
Branches —Melbourne, Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania).
City Leader, July, 1902, writes re the Colonial
Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited: —“ The Directors,
with their characteristic foresight, always place security
before interest. Notwithstanding the difficulty in obtain-
ing remunerative rates the interest rate has slightly in-
creased as compared with the previous year.”*
* * * * .
The merits of the Wilfley Ore Concentrator are.
now fully recognised throughout the Commonwealth,
and its use is extending every day. The New No. 4.
pattern is doing excellent work at the many mines on
which it has been installed. Recent additions to mining
plants comprise : four tables to the Great Fingall, six to
the Oroya Brown Hill, four to the Ivanhoe Company, four
to the Sons of Gwalia, three to the Queen’s Cross Coy.,
Charters Towers, three to the Long Tunnel Extended,
one to the South Moon, Bendigo, and many other mines
too numerous to mention. Upwards of 600 of the Wilfley
Tables are now in use in Australia, giving excellent results
on gold, silver, lead, tin, and copper mines. Full par-
ticulars and a useful pamphlet on concentration can be
obtained from the Sole Manufacturers in Australia, the
Austral Otis Engineering Coy., South Melbourne.*
* * * *
About the best Brand for Sheep now in the
market is Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and
is considerably cheaper than any other. It will dissolve
in the scour, and should certainly be used by those who
hope to get a good price for their wool. E. Rich and Co.,
Sydney and Brisbane, hold stocks.*
* * * *
De Beer Silberberg and Co., invite inspection
of a new shipment of Gasoline Furnaces and Galopin
Assay Balances at 439 Bourke-street, Melbourne. All
assayers’ requisites and up-to-date scientific materials in
stock. Correspondence invited.*
» * * *
H. Brandon Skertchly, geologist, mining engi-
neer and assayer, is prepared to furnish scientific reports
and plans to British and Australian investors. Assays
undertaken, and inquiries re mining properties, promptly
attended to. For fuller information apply to H. Brandon
Skertchly, Norman Chambers, Creek-street, Brisbane.*
* * * *
George Morrison, Stock and Share broker
(member Brisbane Stock Exchange), 377 Queen-street
opposite Stock Exchange, Brisbane. Agents all parts of
the World. Correspondence invited.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, of Melbourne, reports
that there has been a great improvement in the general
outlook of the engineering business since the new year
Started, and that his pipe making works in Melbourne
and Perth are working full-handed. Amongst the orders
now being executed at Footscray works is one for 7 miles
10 chains of 18in. diameter light steel spiral-riveted pipes
for the Victorian water supply ; and at Perth works a
contract is in progress for over 6 miles of lOJin. diameter
spiral-riveted pipes, flanged joints, for the Greenbushes
Tin-Mining Syndicate. About two miles of these pipes
are to stand a test pressure of 8001 b. to the square inch.*
* * * * *
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-st., Melbourne,
having returned from England, is now prepared to
purchase paying mines, and mining properties (not
merely surface shows), situated in any part of
Australasia requiring further capital for development and
machinery. Only genuine and legitimate ventures,
capable of bearing the strictest examinations will be
entertained.* (
* * * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develop, with option of
purchase “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address : “ Option,”
Melbourne. *
* * * *
Hedley Hawkins, sharebroker. Queen-street,
Brisbane (member, Brisbane Stock Exchange), has agents
every important mining centre and cities of Common-
wealth. Correspondence invited.*
imp
r /
\
SUN
H IG HEIST
QUALITY
BRAND
SOLD
EVERYWHERE.
By Special Appointment to His Majesty the King.


Society
Sydney Evening Noose of 7th July had
ten columns filled with details of the execution of
Grand and Jones, with scraps of old murders,
executions, etc., thrown in. In getting the reader
ready for the “drop” scene, it inserted the
following: “From this beam two great black
ropes were hanging. For a couple of days past
prisoners had been engaged twisting and greasing
these horrible ropes to make them soft and
pliable.” If the News is correct, it is about time
the authorities interfered. If the News is wrong,
then it should apologise to the prisoners. A man
may steal or forge a signature, but to grease
“ two great black ropes” Ugh!
THE REAL DIFFICULTY.
GOSHEN: “ Let's see! First, ye’re goin’ to leave
der pisness! Second, ye're joins der Pible
Crishtians! Third, yd re tinks ’am, sandvich
is goot! Fourth, ye’re goin’ ter marry a
Crishtian! And” (in a yell) “ vat’s ye goin'
to do vis yer no-a-se?”
To put an end to the heart-burning
absence of a military guard of honor at S.A.
Governor’s reception, why not on future occa-
sions of the kind raise a guard of 500 unem-
ployed armed with pickaxes ? They could be
got in these hard times ■ for Is. each, and if
his Ex. was attacked by insurgents or dogs or
Primitive Methodists they would be a much more
serviceable guard than the average military outfit.
Also a regiment of 500 unemployed hitting the
country’s enemies with pickaxes would be a noble
sight.
* * * *
While typhoid laid out its victims whole-
sale at Tamworth (N.S.W.), and while scores of
poor patients were without either decent accom-
modation or nursing, the local hospital committee
continued to keep a large part of the building
empty; and the Government medical officer de-
plores that the institution did not rise to the
emergency. But when did a N.S.W. country
hospital rise to an emergency ? How can it rise ?
It always has to live from hand to mouth. The
poorer the people in a district the greater the
need: of a hospital, and yet the less accommoda-
tion it can offer, because it depends upon local
contributions. If the contributions are small the
Government subsidy is small. So the poorer the
people and the more Government help they need
the less they get. An absurd system, surety.
Whiddon, M.L.A., desires to know if Pre-
mier See’s attention has been called to the way the
streets of Sydney are blocked by loiterers. This
is probably sarcasm ; if Mr. See’s attention needs
to be called, then his attention must be deaf. The
most notable peculiarities of Sydney are the
multitudes of apparently respectable citizens who
stand talking in the middle of the pavement,
or simply smoking, loafing, and gazing at space,
regardless of the trouble they cause; and the
persistence with which almost everybody—even
William. M‘Millan occasionally—walks on the
wrong side of the footpath. The Bulletin, as
the only hope of reform, is organising a society of
large aggressive men, who will be bound, under
heavy penalties, to walk on the right side of the
footpath regardless of consequences. They will
be courteous to everybody who also walks on the
right side, and they will concuss fiercely the
person who walks on the wrong one. They will
be pledged by oath to bang hard into people who
block the way by loafing. If anybody loafing or
walking on the wrong side of the pavement goes
down in the concussion, the society will tread on
him and go on without asking whether he is hurt
or not. A thousand large men could reform
Sydney on these lines.
• • * *
Pastor Fitchett has contributed to Melb.
Abgus a long article on “Wesley’s Place in His-
tory.’ Like “ Bleeds that Won the Empire,’’ it
is not an original production; the holy man shows
great industry in collating other people’s opinions.
That he has little of his own to say is shown by
the omission of the obvious comment that the
Church of England made a great mistake in treat-
ing Wesley as a schismatic and driving him out
of that body.. The Church of Rome, wiser in its
generation, did not treat Loyola as a schismatic 5
it incorporated him as a new force and gathered
the fruits of his enthusiasm.
* * * *
At “a conference on public morals” in
Sydney, the other day, of all who preached or
prosed, Rev. W. G. Taylor was the only one who
dared to indicate the real cause of the social
evil. Whilst the wage for women employed in
shops and factories is, on an average, a good deal
below what suffices for a decent existence, a big
percentage of women will inevitably be forced
into an indecent existence.
Municipal reformers in Australia should
seek to establish a compulsory sanitary record of
all dwellings. By examining a public re-
gister, then, anyone could ascertain the
“health history” of a house—whether
it had ever harbored any infectious dis-
ease ; if so, what disinfecting precautions
were adopted, and so on. Writer has
known on the Blue Mountains (N.S.W.)
a family to come on a holiday trip to a
furnished cottage from which, the pre-
vious day, the corpse of a consumptive
was carried !
• • •
“ D-H.” : I got a new servant last
week, and asked her yesterday how she liked
my place. “Very much, sir, because I’m
near me young man.” “ Oh,” said I, “you
are engaged then?” “No, sir, I’m only
ffoin’ ivith ’ini.” Ye gods, I’m puzzled !
Answer me someone. Has a girl any hold
on, or is she engaged to, a man who goes with
her, and what is the meaning of “goes”;
and, further, what are the intentions of-,
young man who “ goes ” with a young woman ?
Bent’s latest addition to Victoria’s comic
opera railway service is the appointment of a
casual blackleg to the position of head spy and
scrutineer over all employees on a large section
of the railways. This loyalist, with no know-
ledge <?f railway work, has a free pass to travel
either in carriages, vans, or engines on his inqui-
sitorial work, and his peremptory orders to do
impossible things are calculated to cause a
revolution. His office empowers him to interfere
with officials in charge of stations, vans and
engines. A few days ago he practically reported
the whole staff on a full length of line. Again,
he reported a porter to headquarters for alleged
gross incivility to him. Unable to get the man’s
name he described him personally, particularly
mentioning his curly head. Stationmaster to
whose station the complaint was sent, wrote
across the report, “Not known here; staff all
straight-haired.”
* * * *
The Warren, the old Marrickville (Sydney)
property from which the Carmelite nuns were
expelled a couple of years ago, has been restored to
secularism and had its sacred character shifted off
the premises by the removal, the other day, of its
founder from the picturesque vault on the grounds.
Many would-be purchasers strongly disliked the
idea of having that tomb on the premises, so
“ Mother Mary ” was taken up and transferred to
the nuns’ new home.
* * * *
The Ballarat police ran in a tight old
fortune-teller the other day, but when charged
with intoxication she said “ cock-a-doodle-do ” so
persistently to the magistrate that she was sent to
the asylum instead of to gaol. Yet, though every-
thing definite except “cock-a-doodle-doo” had
apparently faded out of her mind, she seems to
have had quite enough intellect left to be a fortune-
teller. As long as the seer can crow at her cus-
tomers there are hopes in that line.
‘‘ Burglar Bill ” : The ordinary gaol slang
is inane andstupid. The words possess no merit
to warrant their usurpation of proper
English, but now and then a word
strikes one as carrying its own mean-
ing wrapped in the pronunciation.
“ Smoodger ” pronounced as written,
and signifying a gaol crawler, one
who squirms before the authori-
ties, is one such. Let anyone
hear the word for the first time,
and with ninety per cent, the
meaning is apparent. Its
opposite, “pebble,” gaol
slang for rebel, is not
nearly so comprehensive.
The “second timer” pos-
ing as a “first timer”
generally draws sus-
picion on himself by the
use of his slang. Heard
a man at a political
meeting the other day
say that the speaker
was a “smoodger.” I
tapped him smartly
on the off shoulder,
and he sprang two
feet from the ground
in fright. He had been
there !
* * *
“ D.” : Be “6 x
8 ” on wet-nurses (8.,
27/6/’O3). Who has of
late years in Australia
seen advts. for wet-
nurses ? Know a woman
worth thousands who uses
the bottle —in fact, the
bottle is favored by rich
and poor. Know a
Maoriland girl who has
brought up in S.A. three
blooming youngsters,
plump and hard as nails,
on the bottle. Her mother
did likewise with eight
Maorilanders. And there
was a frightful row between
Maoriland girl and doctor,
who insisted on initial nour-
ishment by natural means,
but was defeated with great
slaughter. Our fathers were three
bottle men, and why shouldn’t our mothers
be one bottle women ?
An old age pensioner, dragged up before a
Sydney Bench for the maintenance of his four
children, complained that, for some reason un-
known to him, his pension had been stopped this
month and no explanation offered. The magistrate
ordered the children to a home, and directed the
aged father to find Is. fid. a week for each child,
which will just leave him 4s. per week for his own
support, even if his full pension resumes again.
If it doesn’t resume, his weekly income will ap-
parently be 6s. less than nothing.
A DIFFERENCE.
REMARKABLY GREAT ACTOR: “ And do you know
what the Mudwallow Tribune said of my
death in “ The Goshawks of London?”
ENGLAND’S GREATEST FOUR-FOOT-TEN COMEDIAN:
“No; did it congratulate you?”
GREAT ACTOR: “No ! —it congratulated the
audiencel”
In Broken Hill they are not giving away
a pound of tea now with the winter bargain. A
big boot shop advertises that it will supply every
customer with a bucket of rain-water.
WHEN (!!!) DR. MCCARTHY’S RAIN
COMES.
“Dr. M'Carthy started out with five assistants and a
large load of chemicals.” —News Item.
“What is it , Bill? Tastes like sheep-dip!”
“ Well, did yer think it was (join’ to he rum hot?”
“ Yul.” : I have also a theory for raising
the birth-rate. Make babies illegal, any lady
having one to be punishable by fine
or, say, amonth’simprisonment under
extra-comfortable circumstances. The
amount of fearsome thrill the average
lady would get out of the situation
while she secretly evolved the deed
blissfully and sympathetically aided
and abetted by the household Mary
Jane, the washer-lady, Mrs. Green,
Mrs. Brown, and Mrs. White, of the
left, right, and front respectively,
would be terrific. When the crime
was fully matured at last, and police-
man X7OOO appeared at the door one
morning for the purpose of bringing
the malefactor to book, every window
in the locality would frame a red,
excited face and curl-papers breath-
lessly striving to witness the denoue-
ment. The policeman would be cour-
teous and considerate but firm, and
the prisoner would be'removed in a
cab. The thrilling excitement into
which the said prisoner would be
thrown for weeks after would make
her feel, just like the persecuted
Countess in Home Jumps. She would
be imprisoned in a mansion with the
best food and medical attendance,
and if she was taken away handcuffed
the handcuffs would consist of two
gold bangles connected by a chain,
but the feeling of martyrdom and
persecution would be there—just like
the heroine in Home Jumps. For
the sake of keeping up the feeling of mar-
tyrdom, she should be ■ taken away hand-
cuffed. Fancy the large, comfortable grievance
of the lady who had been 12 times arrested
by a brutal Government, and had pined for 12
months in a dungeon something like Government
House or Sargood’s mansion.
* * * *
Re Dyson’s illustration (B. 2/7/’O3) of
Eight Hours memorial at Trades Hall, Mel-
bourne. Melbourne Tocsin, in its last Eight
Hours number, actually had a replica of the mon-
strosity as a supplement, and writ large on its
base the familiar announcement, “Drink Carlton
Ale.” Haven’t we got a soul above beer?
TO KISS HER HAIR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To kiss her hair which, uncontrolled
Against my cheek lies, fold on fold,
I plead with all a lover’s art.
Her lips, consenting, softly part,
And mine are pressed to locks of gold.
" Hove can’t be bought ” was said of old ;
But yet—though not for cash—was sold
To me the right, at Cupid’s mart,
To kiss her hair.
No maid can match her ; this I hold.
Her figure’s dainty—such a mould
No artist's chisel could impart.
Then who can blame, who has a heart,
That I continue, times untold,
To kiss her hair ?
N.S.W.
S. ELLIOTT NAPIER.
. . . MIDWINTER SALE
Men's Underclothing Department.
PYJAMAS.
USUAL PRICE.
FLANNEL, E. TWILL - - . i ss 9d
FLANNEL, DERWENT - - -21 s 9d
FLANNEL, LLAMA - - . . 13 S 6d
FLANNEL, CEYLON - - . . is s 6d
FLANNEL, BEST CEYLON - -22 s 6d
And other odd makes greatly reduced.
SALE PRICE.
12s 9d
15s Od
11s 6d
12s 6d
17s 9d
SHIRTS.
USUAL PRICE.
PRINT SHIRTS 5 S 6d
CRIMEAN SHIRTS, C. and P. - ~ 7s Od
SALE PRICE.
4s 9d
5s 9d
DAVID JONES & CO.
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS,
SYDNEY,
AMY NOVICE
Good Photographs
WITH THE
CRACKSHOT
CAMERA
PRICE
7/6
COMPLETE DEVELOPING and PRINTING OUTFIT for making
linished Photographs—with Book of Simple Instructions, Price. s/6.
Postage :In N.S.W., Camera only 9d ; Camera and Outfit,l/9 ;
to other States and New Zealand—Camera, 1/2 ; Camera and Outfit, 3/2.
The Crackshot is a thoroughly practical Magazine Camera for taking Portraits, Groups, Views and
Snapshots of the popular SIZE 3£ x2£ INCHES. It is fitted with Rapid Lens, 3 Stops, 2 View-finders, Ever-
set Time and Instantaneous Shutter, Magazine carrying 6 plates, with automatic changing system, by which
6 Photographs may be made in as many seconds. Book of Simple Instructions supplied with each Camera.
Developing and Printing Outfit complete with Simple Instructions, and containing all neces-
sary materials, viz. : Plates, Chemicals, Dishes, Printing Paper, Lamp, Sic., &c., for producing Finished
Photographs.
All the Latest Style Camerae from 5/- up to £5O, and every conoeivable Photo. Requisite.
New Illustrated Catalogue—3oo Pagee-sent r.-™ '
HARRINGTON & CO., LTD'., photographic merchants.
66 KINO STREET, SYDNEY, and 93 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.


The dim white ghost of Benjamin
Goddard, the initiator of “Kyabram” reform,
made a fleeting reappearance in Melbourne Age
last week, to denounce Labor leader Watson for
advocating the Federal High Court, and to ask,
“as a worker having done my 20 hours out of the
24,” whether Watson can be regarded after that
as a “friend of the workers and the unemployed
who are starving in the streets for work at 6s. Gd.
a day.” But the world is so full of these dreadful
old inhabitants who say they used to work two
weeks every day, and then throw a bullock in the
air for exercise when they knocked off, that The
Bulletin grows sceptical, and would like par-
ticulars. Especially it would ask Ben Goddard
these five questions: (1) Is he quite sure he
worked 20 hours out of 24, and that he isn’t
simply the oldest inhabitant who believes he
remembers having seen Cromwell shaking hands
with Julius Oaesar when he was a boy? (2) How
long or how often did he work these hours ? Did
he do it more than once ? (3) Who saw him doing
it? (4) Did he do it when working for an
employer or for himself? (5) And if he really
did it, does he consider that the consequent lack
of time for mental improvement and the turning
of himself into a mere beast of burden account in
any way for his present rather dull condition ?
* * * *
“Janny” Leahy (he of Philp’s"Ministers
who, because of his large and wide compassion,
was given the job of reducing the State’s charity
vote) did a characteristic mean thing, the other
day. “ The trustees they were to appoint,” said
“Jan,” at the Brisbane pro-customs-swindles
meeting. ‘ ‘ will not run away with the money, as
someone did with a fund collected for Mr.
Glassey.” Hinchcliffe, the Glassey Fund trea-
surer, was able to promptly produce Glassey’s
receipt for £B7l 7s. 4d. ; and the total amount
received was only £BBO 7s. 5d., so that under <£lo
went in expenses. And yet “Jan ” said never a
word. Still, he ought to be encouraged to talk to
the Brisbane customs-swindle crowd about people
who have got away with other people’s money ;
he will be able to hit more heads by talking on
that subject to that crowd than by talking to
almost any other crowd on earth.
MATRIMONIAL.
OFFICER (to perfect lydy, who, having "been re-
leased early that morning, has established a
record by getting sentenced and returned again
the very same day): “Name, please ?”
PERFECT LYDY: “Same name as this morning.
I haven’t had time to change it.”
Man’s soul or spirit is merely a chained
dog and his body is its dog-kennel. It is a solemn
thing to reflect upon, that we are all dog-kennels
ON HIS OWN HEAD.
MR. NEWCHUM : “Ah, you know, bush life is too
horrible. I'm real sorry for the chappies who
have to live there. Why, I was frequently
three and four days with nobody to talk to
but myself—never was so bored in my life.”
MISS SQUATTER : “Oh, but you ought to make an
exception in your case; remember what poor
company you are.”
A rather typical scrap from report of the
Gormanston (Tas.) Board of Health meeting :
Mr. St. Leger drew the attention of the board to the
outbreak of smallpox at Launceston, and suggested that
some steps should be taken.
The Chairman agreed with the suggestion, and re-
marked that some steps should be taken.
Mr. Kean inquired as to what could be done.
The Chairman replied that, in view of the fact that one
case at Launceston had been 18 days out of the hospital
without a true diagnosis of the disease, something should
certainly be done by the board.
It was decided, in the event of a local outbreak of
smallpox, that steps be taken ; but what nature of steps
did not transpire.
’Tis quite a common belief in Australia that to
pass a resolution that “steps should be taken” —
vague, undefined steps to nowhere in particular—
settles the most difficult of problems. Taking
steps to nowhere and signing mortgage bonds are
the two greatest capacities of the Australian
municipal statesmen.
There were two of them sitting on a
a seat in Hyde Park, Sydney. The woman
sat away from the man,
and professed that she
didn’t want to be kissed
when she really did.
Every time he approached
her side she told him not
to, and slid away along
the seat. She was so
engrossed with her graces
and affectations that she
forgot every seat has
an end two of
them, in fact, one
at each end. He
made another
forward move,
and she slid
right off the
seat with a
yelp, and sat
down heavily
o n Ishmael,
the homeless
dog, whojwas
sleeping un-
seeninthelong
grass. The dog
gave an aston-
ished howl and
a bound like a
young lion. The
lover laughed,
and a couple on
the next seat gig-
gled. The laugh,
the giggle and
the dog caused her
to give him a plain
and unvarnished cor-
ner of her mind, evi-
dently till then un-
known to him. When she
had quite finished, which was not for some time,
he remarked coldly that perhaps for the future
they had better be strangers. She agreed. Then
Ishmael, the dog, sneaked back to his lair with a
hazy notion that, low as he’d sunk, he’d once
more been the friend of man.
* * * *
Charity ball organisers have to dodge
Friday evenings now. Sydney Newsboys’ Society
having fixed on a Friday for a charity ball, the
Hebrew members of the committee resigned,
pointing out that their Sabbath begins at 6 p.m.
on Friday. Date was then changed. Moses,
Isaac, and Abraham are, as a rule, just as charit-
able as they are acquisitive, ana no charity
enterprise can afford to run against their feelings.
* * * *
S.A. believes in working its Governor
hard on the social side, so that lie won’t have time
to put his foot in it politically. The new Ex. of
Crow-eater Land began thus: Sunday, Cathedral.
Monday, Liedertafel smoke concert. Tuesday,
reception of the City Council, and at night the
Nurses’ ball. Wednesday, Executive Council,
and to preside at a missionary meeting. Thursday,
Boys’ Brigade ball. Friday, big Sunday school
demonstration. Saturday, inter-collegiate foot-
ball.
“ David
Harum ” on
the subject
of female
barbers :
Most fellows
have a fancy
barmaid. My
fancy is a
pretty little
lady barber,
who has to
pat every
common
johnny in
creation un-
der the chin
and soap him
with both
tongue and
brush at same
t i m e. 11
makes me
jealous. I
visit her
three times a
week, gener-
ally at slack
times, and, as
she scrapes my
face, she tells me
hertroublesand some-
times allows a big tear
to drop on my nose. She
works from 8.30 to 6 week-days and till 10 on Satur-
days, and gets 15s. per week. There are two other
women in the shop—the proprietress and a slave, like my
little woman, who does the same and gets the same, viz.,
15s. per week. My girl reckons the hawk-eyed proprie-
tress is a devil to get on with, and clears £lO a week.
She fines the girls 6d. every time they cut a man. My
girl loses on an average 4s. a week at this. “ Unless you
soon earn enough to marry me, I’ll be cutting someone’s
throat,” she said yesterday. Poor little beggar, she’s
miserable. Took her out last Sunday afternoon. Passed
two johnnies ; heard one of them say, “ There’s the little
tart from the barber’s shop ! ” Felt mafl, and would have
jumped on him—only it was Sunday. I’m only a
struggling journalist, and as soon as I am able to dig my
hand deeper into the pocket where The Bulletin keeps
its money, my “ lady barber fancy ” and I will be wedded.
All Bulletin contributors will receive invitations. Oh,
happy day 1
* * • •
Extract from interview with Miss Rose
Scott in Melbourne Arena-Sun :
Imagine the state of a society when, to aid a Home for
Prostitutes, society women will get up a ball, yes, and
work like slaves to sell tickets and make it a success, and
then dance at it —they, the cream of womanhood, dancing
—the excuse, charity for their degraded sisters. It seems
to me such women would dance on their mothers’ graves
Well, did any mother object to her grave being
danced upon? Still, apart from ma’s grave,
the affair is bad, no doubt. The cream of
womanhood —the thick substance on the top—
actually dancing personally leaping up and
down, and throwing its flesh and clothes in the
air, so to speak, and whirling round and round on
its own feet, and jumping its body and soul off the
ground, with a view to the reformation of its
fellow-creatures, is a humorous idea. When a
person bounds" upwards for the sake of a fallen
sister, and comes down with a whack for the sake
of another, it approaches comedy. This reckless
and cheerless bouncing of the cream ought to be
suppressed.
• • * «
Old Dr. Ross, the most remarkable man
in the N.S.W. Assembly, has Been asking
Education Minister Perry if he will cause female
State school teachers to leave off wearing gaudy
jewellery and outrageous back hair and red and
green clothes, and compel them to put on a nice,
neat, quiet uniform, and dress themselves plainly
and dowdily a‘s becomes their station. The usually
harmless Perry replied with a satirical “Yes-
No,” but it is understood that his refusal to inter-
fere with the ladies’ clothes and jewellery and
back-hair, and to bring down on himself the
wrath of 2244 teachers, was quite definite.
Burglars have lately been so bad in
Adelaide that it has been seriously proposed
to hold a day of prayer for deliverance
from breaking, entering, and the removal
of valuable property. Adelaide always
prays on an emergency, but in this case it would
be better and more profitable to engage 100 extra
policemen, and pay the force better.
* * * *
The keen westerly-wind season in Sydney
has revived the complaints of the Sydney electric
tram drivers about their severe experiences on
the exposed front of the motor. The cutting
wind and accompanying dust soon affect the eye-
sight. Specs, or goggles are sternly forbidden.
There seems no valid objection to having a glass
front to the trams, as urged by the men.
* * * *
Parson Dill-Macky broke out last Sunday
in a vigorous Boyne Water sermon, and strongly
denounced the Catholics for their neglect of that
commandment which says, “Thou shalt not
make unto thee any graven image.” After
looking at the very bad graven image of Parkes
which a mostly Protestant Ministry inflicted on
Sydney, The Bulletin wishes the Ddl crowd’s
practice was a little closer up to its precept.
A blast from Launceston :
Launceston (Tas.) so far as present scribe’s experience
goes, is the most conceited town on earth. Launceston
has a fairly decent sewerage system, and the town gener-
ally is very creditably drained. Unfortunately, the decent
sewerage and creditable drainage stop miles too soon.
The town lies far up the Tamar, a very dreary and squalid
tidal river, with mud flats in it. On to these mud flats,
right in and abreast of the town, the sewers discharge ;
with the result that, at all times and seasons, the Tamar
is, with one or two possible exceptions, the dirtiest, ugliest
river in the Commonwealth. From this river strange
stenches are wafted across the town. However well-
drained and sewered, Launceston must be, in the
nature of things, ripe and ready for seizure by any
epidemic that happens along. But the Launces-
tonians call that river a “ magnificent harbor,” a
“ gift of gracious Providence,” and what not, and
write yearnful poems about it. Also, if you suggest that
the river might be improved, the water thinned down
some, and the mud-flats helped to be as innocuous as
the river-mud can be, the Launcestonians will rise as one
lunatic and curse your beastly evil mind. Just at present
Launceston doesn’t mind the small-pox so much, because
it reckons that it’s a superior sort of small-pox, and
decorative. But in the face of the far too easy pre-
cautionary measures, adopted by a Government which
bids fair sooner or later to die of its own funk, Launces-
ton squeals like a woman. At the bare suggestion that
the pest-stricken town on the dirty river should be sort of
isolated, the townsfolk scratched like cats. The doctors cf
Launceston hospital diagnosed the early cases of the pest
as scarlet fever ; and one doctor outside the hospital
industriously treated one small-pox patient for appendi-
citis. But when anyone suggests that these doctors may
possibly be open to criticism, Launceston lets out a
screech about the folly of alarmists and the malignity of
“Southern prejudice.” Launceston’s superb conceit and
unutterable self-love are really interesting. ,<•
* * * *
The break up of the Victorian railway ser-
vice goes on with increased velocity. Reduced
wages, longer hours, uncertainty of the future,
constant spying by Bent’s informers, the heart-
breaking job of working with the miserably incom-
petent blacklegs and the misery of working with
engines that are in the last stages of rust
and old age, are producing their effects. The best
men, who feel reasonably sure of getting work
elsewhere, are leaving by scores. Next trouble is
that Bent’s blackleg firemen are to go up for exami-
nation as engine-drivers this month. Among the
old drivers every one has had about 15 years' rail-
way experience—they all had years of experience
before being entrusted with a driver’s job. The
blackleg, who scrapes through by favor, will be
allowed to run a train to perdition on the strength
of about 15 weeks’ experience at shovelling coal.
* • • *
A brand new reading of the law of steal-
ing. At Fremantle (W.A.) recently, five men
were charged with being stowaways and travelling
from Largs Bay in the Tarcoola without paying
fare. In the local police court, they were each
fined £3, so the Court plainly regarded their act
as a crime. They had but 45., however, and cn
an alternative term of imprisonment being presst d
for, the P.M. declined to sentence them to ar y
term whatever unless the captain of the ship
guaranteed to pay for their maintenance during
incarceration, his reason being that the punish-
ment was solely in the interests of the steamei s
owners, and that they could not have, made a
diligent search of the vessel before leaving. Cn
the captain forcibly declining to guarantee five
prisoners’ maintenance at any price, the men
were allowed to leave the court, with a warning
from thie bench that they would be expected to
pay the fine later on. The case now stands thus :
Five men stole private property (a ride on a
steamship), but because the owner didn’t prevent
them stealing his property, they are not to be
punished unless at the owner’s expense. Yet
the law was quite willing and is still willing
to collect and keep for its own use the £l5 in
fines. It refuses to recognise the offence except
when there is money in it. '
PROFESSIONAL ITEM .
“ An ’ ef per ma uants me, tell ’er I’m ’ere, n
the surgery.”
A new Bishop has just been imported
from Britain by Maoriland, and he has been
promising to “put some life into our slow-going
community.” T'other Sunday he started by
declaring that “none but the meanest hound
would try and upset another person’s simple
faith.” That’s a very good start for the Bishop,
and it probably will “put some life” into the
community if, the next time he advocates a mission
to upset the simple faith of the Kanaka or the
Mohammedan or the Buddhist or the follower of
Confucius, somebody arises and calls him a mean
hound.
MY LADY HELP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She can be both demure and coy
With eyes that flash and lids that droop
To tell a lie I would not stoop,
I’m told she flirteth with my “ boy 1 ”
My lady help.
One tells me so whose word I’d take
Against the word of ten like her ;
And so I’ll watch them both with care.
And if I catch her then I’ll make
My lady yelp.
M.U
KATI KATI.
DREAMS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You ask me would I like my dreams made true ?
Yes, when I’m dreaming, as I often do,
Of anyone I like—for instance, you.
If some power then would make all dreams come true
How glad I’d be.
But, even then, I fear it would not do
For he or she —at least, I mean for you
Might at the time perhaps be dreaming too—
And not of me.
ALBAR.
SATIETY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A rose without a thorn
You sent me for a token ;
A rose without a thorn,
Fresh as the breath of morn,
And sweet as love unspoken.
A rose without a thorn
You sent me for a token.
But ah, too sweet the rose,
Too rare for my undoing;
Too sweet, too rare the rose,
Sure, every lover knows
That thorn-pricks speed a wooing.
But ah, too sweet the rose,
Too rare for my undoing.
S# A*
A.M.B.R.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resells Waverley Brewery, Agents.
Wild’s, in the Sydney Arcade, is the most
fashionable gentlemen’s hairdressing salcori in
Sydney. Every attention possible is paid to the
customers by six expert hairdressers. Address. —
30 Sydney Arcade, entrance from George-street
or King-street, Sydney.*
SILVER STAR STARCH
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
WOLFE’S
for colds and influenza take
HOT WITH LEMON AT BEDTIME
SCHNAPPS


A WOMAN S LETTER.
Sydney, July 14,1903.
My Dkar Arini,—
Wife of State Premier See has been very ill
with bronchitis for the laßt three weeks, but is
now recovering. One of the things that surprises
men is how women can face, or rather breast, the
theatres these winter nights in decollete gowns
after being furred and coated all day. These
nights, when their men-kind wear overcoats in
dress-circle and stalls, nothing but the possession
of a splendid diamond necklace ought to excuse
the risk of pneumonia or pneuralgia (I don’t see
why it shouldn’t be spelled that way). Which re-
minds me of the current story about Mrs. Pat
Campbell. The actress was doing a season in Mon-
treal (Canada) lately, and posters showing her in a
decollete gown—nothing out of the ordinary—
were put up throughout the city. Moralists
came in the night and carefully plastered strips
of paper over the offending neck and shoulders.
Said that the Department of Morality ordered the
patching. Hm ! One would like to have Mrs. Pat
Campbell’s manager’s affidavit that his was not
the paper and paste-pot.
Onoe I had a dog—a G-ordon setter; owned him
from puppyhood for five years. He had the brain
of an Edmund Barton and the manners of an
aide-de-camp. After he was stolen, and during
my period of mourning, I chanced to look over my
“Newspaper Cuttings” books and found I had
written thirty-two guineas’ worth of sketches and
stories about or around that dog. I was
reminded of him the other afternoon whilst
waiting in a dressmaker’s ante-room, where there
were heaps of society papers and daily papers
containing “Ladies’ Letters ” from most States of
the Commonwealth. Some of the papers were
rather old, others quite young. In the
former the “ dithpled Madden girls ” and
their juvenile-looking mother were exploited
issue after issue in the women’s column.
In the later papers Janet Lady Clarke
was exploited for all she was worth, which is
considerable —her dress, her manner, her charities,
her sympathies, her family, her hair, her typhoid.
The Clarke and Madden families must have
proved very payable to their dry-blowers. There’s
a great knack in prospecting certain families or
certain society women. Sydney women either
don’t lend themselves for exploitation, or our
women chroniclers don’t' knack in that direction.
Though we haven’t here a baronet’s family two'
generations old, there is some material. A few
grains of golden sand could be made out of
Mrs. Burdekin and her egg-shell complexioned
daughters ; Mrs. Philip Morton’s clothes ; Miss
Irene Marks’ bewildering smile and phalanx of
admirers; Mrs. Bernard Wise’s wit; and Miss
Windeyer’s “views” are all as good or better
than anything of their kind Melbourne can show;
and Miss Margaret Harris’ jewels are not
chronicled ,as they deserve.. For the rest, Lady
Munro is in Sydney sometimes.
As long as the cables continue to bleat about
“the successful appearance” of the Australian
singer, so long will last the delusion that Smoke-
ward lies the way to fame and fortune. Scarcely
a week passes but we read that some girl
from Australia with merely a drawing-room
voice has made a successful appearance at
the Bechstein Hall or St. Genesis Chambers.
Then, after that—silence. But Miss Eva Mylott
is, it seems, destined to continue her successful
appearances. Great authorities have pronounced
her voice to have a future. Yet some of Eva’s
warmest Sydney admirers used to vow that Eva’s
platform appearance would bring her a rich hus-
band rather than fame and fortune as a singer. A
fine, brass-bound hossifer, cither military or naval,
was, in the admirers’ opinion, Eva’s predestined
mate. She has been singing at the students’ con-
cert of the Marchesi school, and the Paris corres-
pondent of one of the English papers comments
upon her “thoroughly correct intonation of
Italian.”
I hear that Cardinal Moran claims to have in
his possession the identical prayer-book which
belonged to Mary Queen of Scots, and which she
carried with her to her execution. It is bound in
vellum and has a worn silver clasp; but whether
it is really a better prayer-book than those that
have not been to any execution I don’t happen to
know. But if ever I become a famous character,
and am beheaded for trying to restore the Stuart
family to the Throne, and for waving my parasol
in the front rank of the insurrection, I am going
to carry an extra-special, strongly-bound volume
on my way to the block. It takes two or three
centuries for the book to become really valuable,
and a flimsy one would fall to pieces just as the
price was going up. How do you rise in insur-
rection, by the way, and start restoring dethroned
royal families ?
A curious religious development in Australia is
the number of Christian-born women who become
“converts” to Judaism. All these marry a
Hebrew husband shortly after or before conver-
sion, so the. notion is palpably matrimonial.
Excluding them, the Jewish faith very rarely
secures any proselytes. The Christian woman
will sacrifice her ham only for the reward of a
husband. A rabbi in another State told me that
“we look very coldly upon these ’versions. There
are plenty of Jewish girls for the men of our race
to marry, so we do what we may to discourage
Christian women coming into the competition,
even though they do ’vert to our faith.’*
Yesterday I saw a man cross from Mosman
Ferry at Circular Quay (Sydney) to the Pitt-
street tram, and he read a magazine the whole
time. He took no thought for his life; he never:
looked either to the right or the left, before him,,
behind him, nor between his feet. He just
grinned contentedly, with his eyes glued on his.
magazine, and wandered blindly among charging-
trams, racing vehicles, rollicking cabs, and lorries,
driven at a trot. No, he’s not dead; none of:
them happened to strike him. But had I been,
able to afford the inevitable fine I would have,
prodded that mam something extra tremendous..
He is the sort of idiot who causes tram accidents,
and harrows up the feelings of tram officials, and.
makes complete strangers waste their valuablei
time asking the crowd what has happened.
Went to a gas-cooking demonstration on am
afternoon last week. The demonstrating place
was well filled with wives of men who were evi-
dently in work. A few confessedly very poor-
women were present and a large number of chil-
dren. As the show was duller than being in
church, and lasted close upon three hours, the
demeanor of the youngsters surprised me. It was.
full of bright expectation, and they looked resent-
fully at every fresh arrival. Reason: the results
of the demonstration—scones, rock-cake, buns,
Swiss roll and puff-pastry tarts —were distributed!
amongst the audience at the close of the matinee.
Two very young women were the “cooks.” One
wore glasses and had a lot of silky curly hair-
hanging over her eyes. It does brush my mental
fur the wrong way to see a cookie’s curls mingle in
the batter of the Swiss roll. As the show was given
to prove the excellence of a certain make of gas-
stove there was no explanation of the methods of
preparation. One merely saw the raw material as;
it was being put into the oven. When it came
out —golden, or bright brown, puffed to three
times its original size—and previous to being given
away, its relative merits were judged by three,
women from the audience. For the two girls,
were rival amateur cookies.
One of the most interesting side shows of the.
exposition was the chatter of the women. It ran.
on the dishes their husbands liked and death-
bed scenes. One gave a minute account of the
death of a friend. “ She began to die at half-past,
nine on Saturday night, and she finished at half-
past four on Friday morning. She was dying a
whole week, never stopped an instant, th’ rattle
goin’ the whole time an’ her head rollin’ from
side to side THAT awful. Every now an’ then
she’d come to and turn me out, but bless,
you ! I’d always come back again.” A friend
who had just finished a cheerfully-given account
of a news-boy’s iniuries by a tram, turned to a
quiet woman and asked if she thought it possible
to make a Swiss roll for six with less than nine
eggs. “ Mrs. ’Obson ’said she did it with four, but,
as I was just sayin’ to Mrs.Binks, I’d rather she’d
eat it than me.” The quiet woman temporised
by saying, “Well, what with eggs at 2s. 9d. or 3s.
a dozen, but ” —hurriedly—“ she hadn’t a stove
like that, where you put in the roll or puff paste
with all the jets turned off, and they just cook
with the heat that’s in the stove.” Mrs. Binks
admitted that she hadn’t that kind of stove either.
She Couldn’t pay “ eleven-ten "for a stove:
A small boy attended the children’s fancy dress
ball, in aid of Civil Ambulance, dressed as a
butcher and carrying a wooden tray of meat. He
walked up to Professor Anderson Stuart, and,
pointing to a sausage, said, “This is you, and
this,” indicating a bit of roasting beef, “is Sir
Harry Rawson.” The meat was so labelled, and
was evidently intended for (fancy dress) delivery.
Talking of balls: A damsel was taking notes at a
recent academic frisk when an academician
balanced up to her corner and asked, “ You’ll put
in the fellows’ degrees, I suppose ? ” “ Certainly,”
was the reply, “and their addresses and telephone
numbers also.” But he didn’t see the implied
sarcasm—only showed his nice teeth in satisfaction
and went away.
Sydney’s Bob Cab Smith married off one of his
daughters while in England. Rumor says that
when the Archbishop gets all his daughters mar-
ried he will place his hat and gaiters at the feet of
a well-dowered Australian lady. In case this is
the first he has heard of it, he is hereby assured
that he might do a lot worse.
The exodus of singers continues. Julia Davis
went last week; Bertha Faning (Mrs. M‘Knight)
is packing her grip. When news came of Sylvia
Yarra’s “successful” appearance, a new-chum
domiciled in Sydney asked if she was an abori-
ginal. From Australasian’s London correspon-
dent I learn that she is a Miss Downing, of Mel-
bourne.
Phil May is seriously ill at his home at St.
John’s Wood, says latest mail letter. Constant
visitors who try to make him believe that there is
no such thing as pain are sculptor Mackennal and
painter Longstaff.
At the first night of “ Mice and Men,” Nellie
Stewart was handed a violet boa—that is, three
yards, at least, of a boa made of violets, with
chiffon ties. It was something unique in tha way
of floral trophies, and the audience hoped she
would, wear it in the ensuing act. But perhaps
she thought it would not fit her 1786 frock.
Captain Wilson, the new aide to Excellency
Rawson, was on public view for the first time in
Sydney on Monday night, when the Rawsons went
to see “Mice and Men.” He is a tall, fair,
curly-haired young man, and was wonderfully
conspicuous in a scarlet uniform. Most of the
young women in the audience turned languishing
opera-glasses on him.
Lindfield golf-links, on the North Shore line,
have attracted many golfers to that suburb, and
competitions of some importance are decided
there. A “mixed foursome” on Saturday last
fell to Mrs. H. Braddon (of the Tasmanian Brad-
dons) and Mr. Cook.
Marriage at night is somewhat of a growing
institution. Miss Amy Reynolds, one of two
sisters who used to warble with some success in
Sydney, and who went Londonwards for further
trill training, married last week in the Congrega-
tional church a bridegroom named Banks, whom
she met abroad. The “ Voice ” breathed at night
and the “ Obey ” was omitted from the marriage-
service. If this omission be the practice of the
Congregational Church, that creed ought to get a
lot of women ’verts. I am told that the Reynolds-
Banks bridesmaids looked queens of Sheba—real
birds of Paradise. They wore pink chiffon with
court plumes in their hair.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent s—
“ Chief characteristic of the Domino Ball was
its rigid respectability ! Each smart matron had
weighed in the balance and approved of the
masked members of her set, thus doing away with
any risk of a she-somebody twirling round with a
he-nobody, or vice versa. Then, in the round
■dances, the sheep knew the goats by the favors
•worn, so the whole thing was ‘absolutely safe,
■doncher know ? ’ All the cliques cliqued as usual,
;SO goodness knows what object they attained
by hiding all form and comeliness behind face-
screens and body-bags ! Masked Melbourne, try-
ing to ‘ let itself go,’ is suggestive of a character in
somebody’s obscure novel. He had brought up bis
three prigs on the strictest Gradgrind principles,
but one Christmas a rich relative turned up and
aaid he liked to see the young people enjoying
themselves. So the father, in a fierce whisper,
told his three prigs to let their animal spirits
loose, and they couldn’t, for they had none.
“ One masquerader, to my knowledge, did
try to work up the correct carnival spirit but made
the mistake of mixing her drinks. That is to say,
she introduced swirling, whirling, tarantelle Lan-
cer methods in a ‘set,’ otherwise peopled by staid
jog-trotters, with the result that a fluttered subur-
banite, in domino of glazed calico and features
secluded behind lamp-shade of blush-chiffon, was
spun off her legs and piled up in a heap.
“The animal masks were hideous and one
couldn’t admire the new style face-valances of
lace, gauze, &c. The small, old-fashioned black
masks proved the most becoming, while the ghast-
liest exhibits on view were the weird wax casts of
wearer’s features. Nearly as frightening were the
transparent gauze horrors, matching owner’s
domino in color. Imagine women infatuated
enough to peer through green or purple muslin,
■or to face the music handicapped by a false nose
•of pink wax!
“ Dames Sydenham Clarke, Hutton, and Gillott
watched the mummery from the platform, squired
by their respective husbands, plus Vice-Admiral
Fanshawe. The Dowager joined them later in
scrumptious all-white, her raven locks looped on
her neck-nape with girlish Cadogan-plait effect.
Many of the smartest smiled on the show from
the balconies, among them the radiant Mrs.
Isaacs, her white silk appliqued with pale blue
and clustered with roses of faint pink. With the
dancers Miss Elaine Molesworth was seen to be
young and pretty in spite of her disguise—rather
an effective domino of flowing white silk bordered
with pale blue, and inoffensive black mask which,
after the unmasking, she wore slung coquettishly
over her shoulder like a race glass.
“Leading Melbourne firms are not going to
rush the idea of an advertisement ball again. It
doesn’t pay in any sense of the word. For the
recent mask hop, big rag firms were worried all
day long by shoals of fetching girls, each willing
to bear a becoming hoarding on her back for
the sake of the presentation outfit. One
firm allowed generous guineas as expenses
for domino and mask. When finished, and the
4 ad ’ labels affixed fore and aft, the firm ex-
pressed satisfaction. But it had reckoned with-
out the woman. On the night of the hop she
withdrew most of the labels and placed the others
where the balcony eye pierced not, so that firm
is protesting emphatically, and there’s trouble in
the camp. In another instance, where a business
house considered its dazzling representative not
sufficiently on show (she was in hiding most of
the night with a brother masker), it asks the fair
one to foot the domino bill.
“Victorian Artists’ Show grows tamer. The
trouble is diagnosed by some as ‘ provincialism,’3
which, misleading its victims by the applause of
its own little back room, lulls them into content
with their own mediocrity.. Others aver that the
exhibition suffers, not so much from the stationary
attitude of the established artists, as from the
weak strivings of beginners. Striving beginners
deserve encouragement, of course, but not to the
point of admitting their praiseworthy little at-
tempts into a show of alleged ‘ pictures.’
“A show minus Longstaff's work always con-
fesses to a want. Longstaffian-pictured people
have a flash of fire in them, recalling Genesis with
its ‘ And He breathed into him the breath of life,
and man became a living soul.’ If Longstaff’s
people are fire and'clay, M’Cubbin’s, maybe, are
honey—and oatmeal. Latter’s ‘ Motherhood’ in
present show depicts a wholesome, beautiful,
placid woman in short-waisted red gown, sitting
with w r ell-cared-for children and a docile dog
among flowers. Some denominational ladies’
college should hang it in its main hall to show
parents and daughters what good girls may come
to if they remember cold baths, porridge and
catechism in the days of their youth.
“A canvas that awakens much feminine ire in
this year’s Exhibition is one wickedly misnamed
‘Travels of a Royal Personage.’ Every loyal
She turns that way to feast the orbs on a stately
pageant of Princes, and sees—a bizarre scene of
flaunting dancers, with legs poised whizzingly,
around a Royal Don Juan, while other males of
his ilk leer at the dancers.
“There were two luminaries at the ‘Stoning-
ton ’ reception on Thursday night—the Vice-
Admiral and the Austrian Count. Both sported
medals, but the Monsignor’s robes made a more
imposing sight than the brass and braid of the
Navy. Three hundred is a crush at ‘Stonington,’
and no peacock tail got the chance of a full
spread. The concentrated buzz of the 300 voices
was also trying to the nerves and the performing
warblers. Aide Browning, getting the wink from
the music-loving hosts to stem the current of
chatter, battled through the crowd and implored
silence. Lady Silverlocks struck a bright note
in lustrous black and great garnet illuminations.
Mrs. Everard Browne lit up her expensive black-
and-white garb with a wonderful array of dia-
monds. The principal singer of the night was
the Conservatorium mezzo-soprano, Miss Annie
Davidson, a smart Hebrew-featured girl for whom
Marshall Hall predicts a future halo. Miss
Davidson is the daughter of the Chief Inspector
of Public Works.
“During the recent railway strike the families
of the engineers were not the only ones to
tremble. On the night of one hot debate, the
wife of one of the political tyrants was carried
fainting from the gallery. But one other strenu-
ous dame backed her spouse all through the debate,
and cheered the uneasy members of the Ministry
with her Gospel of Stern Discipline. When a
woman is strong and dominant she is merciless.
The sense of power spoils her femininity in most
instances.
‘ ‘ The two most attractive flutterers of the pre-
sent are Commissioner Tait’s wife and a fascina-
ting French girl, Mdlle. de Rougemont—a rather
significant name in Australian ears. Mrs.
Tait is fair, pleasant, and a fine frocker. Her
twang is piquantly light. The French charmer
is a guest of Mrs. Dunbar-Hooper, and flourishes
lots of style. A favorite garb with her is one
running smoothly and closely over the figure, but-
toned up the back, and making for hour-glass pro-
portions. Women who slop over and bag in
Russian style look odd beside this laced-in 1901
figure. It must be admitted that the old, frank
line of bust and the gradual slope of the waist is a
pleasanter sight than the negress-like hang-over
of flesh with an invisible meridian.
“The knot-tying of Major Clifton Brown, of
the 12th Royal Lancers, and Justice Hodges’ fine
daughter is set down for to-day (14th). The
Majah is light-haired, pink-cheeked, and very
English. He has been"staying at Justice Hodges’
house, and has been feted by Toorak, which thinks
him ‘ awfully fine form.’ The engagement came
about last year, when the two attractive Hodges
sisters were on tour with their parents. It’s be-
coming quite popular for Melbourne girls to get
snatched up when travelling.
“Miss Hilda Cumming played hostess at the
Rupertswood spree on Friday, when a goodly
crew of tailor-made sports rallied. The cornely
beauty was rigged seasonably in warm, mealy-
grey, and wore her own rose complexion,
though most others favored a detachable one.
The Iceberg Premier was billed for a speech, and
failed at it signally. The idea of that prunes-and-
prism person, with his sharp-edged lips and
tight-buttoned coat, being cast for the rollicking
breakfast speech to a pack of hot-headed hunts-
men, was preposterous. M.H.R. Cruickshauk
fitted his talk more to things turfy, and cut his
speech to the required measure, getting off one or
two houndy jokes neatly.
“ The Governor-General was present on Steeple-
chase day at Flemington. Governor Clarke talked
with Chief Tennyson and then mounted No. 2, box
with the Huttons—the two dames of this party,
innocently supplying a striking contrast in their
thatches of silver and gold. Miss Vera Clarke
wore a confection of tender green, and thp head
mount continued the tone with intervals of shrimp
pink. The dress had first seen the light in a
Bridal procession. The sudden sunshine induced
other flutterers to give their bridesmaids’ raiment
a day out, and one was in this way reminded of
all the season’s knot-tyings. Mrs. Tait, in tow of
the Forrests, wore a plain smoke-blue garb and a
tricky hat of cochineal flowers—k very bright
affair.
“The Women Writers’ Club (Melb.) received
Miss Rose Scott with trumpets, also shawms,
last week. Mrs. Cross (Ada Cambridge) has re-
ceived numerous congratulations on the recent
appearance of her first grandchild, whose advent
has been eagerly desired —and despaired of—for
seven years. The child (a boy) has brought great
joy into the Cross family, and the gentle little
authoress flushed and smiled over the topic as if
he were her own. Tea and scandal beguiled the
afternoon cheerfully. A detachment of club-
women and suffragists turned up a couple of days
later at the Sydney express and gave Miss Scott'-''
a good send-off.
“ There was a large, eager tea-drinking crowd
to view a show of china-painting last Monday,
next door to the Wattle Club. The ‘Cliveden ’
mistress alighted on the scene in black and
bereavement violet, muttered , the necessary
grace to set the show moving, and rustled out
starchily. The dessert and dinner services on
which the best daubing was done made a good
how.
“ Two frilly sisters, not long back from a Con-
tinental gad, tell their chums that Paris has broken
out violently in a white feather mania, and they
support the information by wearing the whitest,
the longest, the most wonderful feathers ever
seen here. At a recent race meeting, they showed
forth in immense hats, with racing track brims,
on which giant ostrich plumes sprawled inordi-
nately. Yours affectionately, Akenehi.
The Catholic Press, professedly the organ of
the R.C. Church in N.S.W., with several church
dignitaries among its directors, strips itself naked
and howls thus in the highways:—
No. one likes to advocate the triangles and the cat, but
the times are desperate. We have tried kindness, and it
has failed. Everything that humanitarianism has de-
signed for the reclamation of the habitually violent
criminal has been used without effect.
Certainly everything has been used, and tire
resources of civilisation are exhausted ! N.S.W.
has tried keeping the police force at the lowest
possible ebb and giving it so many non-police
duties to perform that it has no time to keep an
eye on the malefactor. It has tried having no
“ Move on ” law, and letting the push congregate •
in the streets as much as it pleases. It has tried
giving the magistrate full permission to let the
gory pushite off with 10s. fine, and in most cases
he would probably keep on doing so even if the
“cat” were legalised. It has tried all. these
things and others like them. Now, how would it
be to get more police ; to let them stick solely to
police work, so that there will always be a tall,
angry “cop ’ bearing down on the push wherever
it is; to fix the minimum penalty for push assaults
at two years ; and to get a church which can exert
some moral influence on the people instead of
a poor, impotent, ignorant, battered failure
which, after toiling for 1900 years, can only sug-
gest flogging the congregation as a means of
reform ?
ron
❖
VA
w
V
©
o
o
0
INSPIRITING
BWIFT & COMPANY,
AGENTS, .
o'*
d*'
St., SY
Women ! why be thin and undeveloped ?
Lactfc, the wonderful skin-food, plumps the flesh
where thin and undeveloped, gives a beautiful
roundness to face, neck, bust, and arms. A
quick, sure and safe home treatment. Jars
75._6d., post Bs. 2d. Thousands of women using it
daily, all of whom testify to the wonderful results
from its use. Write for pamphlet to H. Westall
G-uest, Yiee-regal chemist, 229 Bourke-street,
Melbourne.* ■ -J
WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
A Reliable Glove
which you can depend upon to give
you satisfaction—hard to get we
know, but just try a sample pair of
The Royal Kid Glove
to be obtained in every color, and
every pair carries a guarantee.
Price f\ !£*
st/© PAIR.
W. T. WATERS & CO. LTD.
“ The Leaders of Fashion,"
King & George Sts., SYDNEY.
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
vw
WT
W
WT
W
WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW
j FACILE PRINCEPSTI |~SEMPER IDEM. |
BUCHANAN WHISKY
m
CRAVEN ETTES"
Are the Ideal Rubrics
FOR
RAI IN COATS .


PERSONAL ITEMS.
The Sultan of Johore bears a more or less
striking resemblance to bookmaker Sammy Allen.
The oldest bowler in Victoria is John
Watson, of Kyneton. He attains his century on
July 26.
Miss Eadith Walker has been again elected
vice-president of Sydney Rowing Club. Miss
Eadith, when a young girl, pulled a plucky oar
on the Parramatta River.
It is one of the conventional fictions of
journalism that a Pope’s career is “brilliant.”
The late Pope is said to have had a “long and
brilliant” time within the walls of the Vatican.
A grand-daughter of the Hebraic-visaged
“ General ” Booth has become a Harmy hofficer.
They’re “keeping it in the family,” and no mis-
take. Three generations feathering their nests.
Poor old Paul Kruger, now nearing his
78th year, after wintering in the South of France,
has gone back to Holland to live. His eyesight
has almost gone; otherwise, it is said, he is fairly
well.
William Robinson, a former member of
the Victorian Parliament, recently died at the age
of 82 in the Melbourne Home for Aged and, Infirm
persons. The railway pass issued to M’s.L.A.
was found among his possessions.
Victorian Judge a’Beckett was at a dinner-
party, and, in the absence of her husband, the
hostess asked his Honor to say grace. The Judge
promptly sentenced the victuals to death with
the words—“ May the Lord have mercy on this
food.”
Captain Dunsford, Lloyd’s surveyor at
Lyttelton (M.L.), who died lately at the age of
85, started life with the East India Company, and
many years later settled down as the first gold
buyer at Ballarat diggings. In ’54 he opened the
Bank of N.S.W. there, but subsequently took to
the briny again, and commanded many big sailing
vessels before taking his last berth.
Deceased : Frederick Brown, Chairman of
Committees in Victoria’s House of 48 Rich Land-
lords. He had been a resident of Beechworth
since 1853, and a member of the House of Rich
Landlords for 19, years. Shiels, when he ran a
short-lived Cabinet in the bank-breaking days,
made Brown an unpaid Minister with nothing to
do, and Brown did it for seven months. That
was his whole record of Ministerial greatness.
THE MINISTER FOR SMALL AFFAIRS.
L.B.M.: “ Can you spare a moment, Mr. O'Sullivan, I want to see you about the regeneration
of Australia.”
THE OWE’S.: “ No, my boy. Run away, I haven't time. Fm too busy over this most im-
portant question of a penny an hour dirt-money.
Civil servants; no matter how big their
salaries, seldom lay up much riches in this world.
Critchett Walker, who handled over £llOO a year
for many years, died worth under £5000; and he
drew over £4OOO in a Tattersall’s sweep a couple
of years ago.
After gradually working his way up the
ranks since 1876, Upton, of the S.A. detectives,
was appointed head of that department at the end
of June. ■ Within four days he was dead. An
unusually short reign in a civilised country where
policemen, as a rule, die a natural death.
Henry Spencer, the long-haired old man
who used to sun himself so regularly in Wynyard-
square, Sydney, has died at 93. He was a man of
intellectual turn, but more contemplative than
practical. He corresponded with front-rank
writers, Herbert of the same name being free and
frequent in the postbag. A son of his is Auditor-
General of Westralia. •
The Commonwealth has in its service a
man who claims to be a son of the late Prince
Consort. He says that he is the senior uncle of
the little person who was out here a year or two
ago. He put up with the wickedness of royalty
until he was 16 ; then it got too strong for him,
so he escaped over the garden wall of the palace
and came to Australia.
Barrister St. Ledger, who is a prime
mover in the scheme to collect a £lO,OOO fund to
fight the white Australians at next Queensland
Federal elections, is a man of parts. Originally
a school teacher, he got into the legal profession
some years back and stood as an unsuccessful
Laborite in a Queensland State election. Then
he backslided to Philp and Co. and stood as an
unsuccessful Tory at Charters Towers. As a
Labor man he came third out of four candidates;
as a Tory lie came last out of four candidates.
S.A. Govt. Geologist Brown, the man
who broke the Arltunga boom, was born in Nova
Scotia, but for about 40 years has had connection
with geographical work all over Australia. He
has an extensive knowledge of the Australian
bush Was originally in the employ of Victoria
but left and went to Westralia and thence to
Canada. Returned to Australia in 1881 and -after
18 months in the N.S.W. Geographical Survey
was appointed G.G. for S.A. and has now held
that position for more than 20 years.
The question of mental in Lienee upon
man’s bodily condition seems to defy medical
analysis and put theory to confusion. Henry
Jones and Digby Grand were put into two con-
demned cells to await their hanging for one on me.
Jones fattened considerably whilst Grand lost
flesh.
Died at North Sydney recently, the widow
of B. O. Holtermann, who found the immense
mass of gold at Hawkins Hill in 187 b it weighed,
before being broken up, 6301 b., and was wmth
,£l2 000. Holtermann’s partner, Beyers, sold out
his interest in the claim for £70,000. Holtermanh
and Beyers both entered Parliament, but left no
mark.
The rain-maker, Dr. M'Carthy, does not
travel in style. The Adelaide interviewer who
went up to Aid gate to meet the Melbourne ex-
press missed him when he searched the boudoir
cars, but on another attempt, at a wayside station,
he discovered the modern Aquarius huddled up in
the corner of a second-class carriage. Ihat was
in,the day of his greatness. If he sank with his
failure he probably left by seizing the rear buffer
and running behind.
Thomas Roberts, who died at Fitzroy
(Vic.) on July 6, aged 91 years, was a member of
Ross’s Arctic expedition. In Maoriland, he
fought prominently in the early wars. At one time
he was master of the ship President, which he sold
in the early fifties to the Government for conver-
sion into a prison hulk in Hobson’s Bay. Many
early citizens, some of whom probably still live
and wash themselves in strict seclusion, were
flogged on that old vessel.
Maoriland Attorney-Generalship, which
has been vacant since Patrick Buckley dropped
out in 1895, has been filled by the appointment or
Colonel Pitt to that office. Pitt, who commande 1
the Maoriland contingent at the late Widow oi
Windsor’s diamond jubilee, went to Maoriland
from Tasmania many years ago, and saw service
in the Maori war. It was to him that le Whiti
yielded at Parihaka. Pitt was lowered to the
Upper House in 1899.
T M. Slattery, M.L.C., will probably
stand for a seat in N.S.W. Assembly next elec-
tions. “ Tom ” acted splendidly m the Assembly
long ago. 44 How it is that such a person as Mr.
Slattery can possess any influence in any com-
munity I am never able to understand, said
Henry Parkes. But 44 Tom ’ had just then fried
the posing Henry in a burst of vituperative
oratory, and Parkes was never able to under-
stand how any of his opponents possessed any
influence.
Veteran Major Charles Westrup, buried
lately in M.L., took a conspicuous part in the
Maori war, and came out with flying colors in all
his battles. He became a fairly rich man in after
years, but lost the lot through unwise specula-
tions. Then he asked the Seddon Government for
a billet, and got a temporary clerkship in “the
Largest Wooden Building in the World.” When
the Big Gun applied the pruning knife six
months ago he kicked Westrup out, and the old
man went home to bed and died. But he was
accorded a grand military funeral !
BILL DOHERTY, Australian
fighting man.
Of those
who took
the lead-
ing part
against
the shear-
ers in the
Q ueens-
land
strike of
18 9 1
somebody
counts up
tne num-
ber that
have
since died
or had a
shocking-
ly bad
time in
many
cases
both.
S bar-
wood,
P.U. Sec-
re.tary,
died
while the
strike was
on. J. A.
Peddle, a
leading
P . U .
official,
suicided
lately.
M u rphy,
M.P., of
the P.U.
exe c u -
tive, died
“miser-
ably and
mysteri-
ously, ”
and a
Labor
man won
his seat. Coldham, another of the executive,
died while still a young man. Others in-
clude Ahern, police inspector; young 1.
Byrnes, of whom so much was once expected ;
Judge Harding, who fell from the Bench
in a fit, and never recovered; and MTlwraith,
who lived in enforced and impoverished exile for
years. Tozer still lives; but probably hehasnt
had much happiness since.
Late Mount Morganaire Hall will be
regretted by those Rockhamptonites who tasted
of his bounty in the autumn of 1880. Hall “did
in ” about £7OOO for a week’s carnival of racing,
biking, rowing, and mixed drinks. After 23
years the oldest inhabitant of that thirsty town
recalls the few days when there Was a red tinge
from the rising of the sun to the going down
thereof—and the nights, when it was common to
find some total strangers sleeping comfortably on
the front verandah whilst some more would be
reposing (filled with emotion and light refresh-
ments) in the bath.
One of the best known characters in
Perth (W. A.) is a lady orator whom Providence
has inspired to pursue a vendetta against
the legal profession. The lady some years
since lost some property in a law-suit,
hence the trouble. She is a Sairey
Gamp during the week, and every
Sunday lectures on the local
equivalent for the Yarra bank on
“ Legal Robbery in W. A.” Some-
one sent the lady a ticket for the
ooening of the new Perth Supreme
Court lately, invitation to which
was issued in the name of the
Government, and a chill smote
the Devil’s Brigade, assembled in
wig and gown to welcome the
Governor, on seeing the enemy
occupying a position of vantage
amongst the guests. The lady, how-
ever, to their great relief, contented
herself with calling for three cheers for the
Governor.
Passed out at Sale, Gippsland, the Rev.
W. S. Logan, a pioneer cleric of the old type
A native of Orkney, he emigrated about half-a
century back, and commenced to save souls in the
bush, a work hindered by the exceeding roughness
of the said bush, and the exceeding unwillingness
to be saved of the said souls. Whether the saving
process effected much or not, his name is remem-
bered and respected all over the back country of
Victoria as that of a parson who never shrank
from wind or weather, hard travelling, or a rough
tongue—or, some say, from “putting up his
hands.” His wife, in every respect his mate, died
a few months back, after which the old man turned
his face to the wall and quietly slipped off.
During his last days his memory for later events
quite left him, but he delivered over again the
first address he gave as a young man—an address
d 1 veivd to about 30 bushmer.
Rowland Rees, an ex-Minister of the
Crown, who sat for 20 years in the S. A. Assembly
and who was accounted one of its most eloquent
talkers, was taken to the Parkside Asylum a few
days ago. Just previously John Richards,
another ex-legislator, was sent into durance as a
dipsomaniac. Richards sat for the mining dis-
trict of Wallaroo, and was the first Labor mem-
ber sent into the local Parliament. He was then
a teetotaller, and a leading light in religious
matters.
Through the retirement of W. C. Walker
from the M.L. Ministry, Seddon becomes Minister
of Education and of Immigration. The King has,
during his 10 years’ reign, been either all the
time or some of the time Premier, Minister for
Public Works, Minister of Mines, Minister of
Defence, Minister of Native Affairs, Minister of
Labor, Commissioner of Trade and Customs,
Postmaster-General, Electric Telegraph Commis-
sioner, Treasurer, Minister of Immigration, and
Minister of Education. So far he hasn’t been
Minister of Justice or Attorney-General, Minister
of Lands or of Native Affairs, or Colonial Secre-
tary ; but he has done some of the work of all
these offices.
Edward Greville, an old Parliamentary
party, died last week, aged 82 years. For 10
years he represented Braid wood in N.S.W.
Assembly, and, as usual, when he ceased to be
much good there, he was appointed to the Leg.
Council. He dabbled in printer’s ink as well as
legislation. He founded the Year Book, and had
an interest in country directories. Also, tin re
was a time when Greville and Co. and Gordon
and Gotch had under a very large thumb most of
the minor country press of the country. In the
mining boom many fortunes were lost in Greville’s
Rooms, George-st., then the headquarters of the
mining fraternity. The G.P.O. stands on the
site now.
“ Maitland ” : I remember the “ silenced
cleric ” mentioned by “Euroa”(B., July 2). A
little, thin, clean-shorn man, starving visibly, but
his talk of South Africa took in no one who knew
the country. The then licensee of the Elizabeth-
street hotel which he frequented was a Dutch-
man—it was during war-time that the silenced
one used to glide in and out —and his reverence’s
S’African (book) talk and temporary pro-Boer
sympathies often got him a prolonged attack on
the counter commissariat with a long sleever
gratis. Too many glasses originally led to his
being silenced in England and exported, and it
was for appropriating glasses (opera) that he got
two months’ gaol.
Sydney University has produced its first
Doctor of Laws for 11 years, (not counting the
mock degree ladled out on George of York), in the
person of Geo. W. Waddell, nephew of the
N.S.W. Treasurer. This privilege of label-
ling himself Dr., won’t necessarily help the
new LL.D. much. The degrees of LL.B.
and LL.D. were almost unknown when the pre-
set front-rankers of N.S.W. Bar were reading.
Just as the leading men in the medical profession
were quite content with a minimum college
diploma, so used the man of law to do as little Uni-
versity work as possible. Indeed Want, Salo-
mons, and Reid have no ’Varsity degree at all.
Lately, however, University degrees, both legal
and medical, have come into favor.
HUGGING THE POT AND OBJECTING
TO THE KETTLE.
"The Kaiser has conferred the distinction of persecu-
tion and martyrdom upon the only party in the Empire
really quickened with the spirit of Liberalism. "—Argus
on the German Socialist.
The vitality of the pensioners ! Died at
Eveleigh (N.S.W.), only a few days back, Henry
Spencer, who was retired from the Westralian
public service just 25 years ago, on reaching his
70th year. He actually lived to see his son
retired on a pension on account of old ag. e -
Spencer, sen., was for many years chief V?
the Treasury —at a time when the receipt of AIUO
put the Westralian Treasury in a condition of
gorgeous affluence.
NEURALGIC PAIN.
The Winter’s here, with keen, chill winds that search out all the spots where nerves are weak! Then
comes Neuralgia with its torturing pangs of pain. , T^nltnpnts
The flesh is sore and tender, the cheeks inflamed-the whole face aches with anguish. Liniments
and “wuuarptk People are the only great nerve-tonic in the world. They never
fail to t “ e Mool i w hich feeds the impoverished nerves—then they soothe and strengthen
them. The inflammation stops-the nagging pain subsides-the appetite returns. Then comes sound sleep
and robust, piUs oure Neuralgia, the only scientific way it can be cured—and that is
through the nerves. -
ai MfieT MAD WITH NEURALGIA. “ Two years ago the sharp, burning, nagging pains of Neuralgia
ALMOST MAD W , n!ule nK . i ump anc ] sral . t .. The pains in my head were just as if knives were being
dragged at tilltj» e a * j 1 depresiion in my head where I used to press my hands when trying to ease the
driven in and out , T {* e r r ® ’ P k s and sometimes I was almost delirious with the pain. I had good medical treatment and
agony. I was in bed for week., , taking Ur Williams’Pink Pills.- One box soothed my nerves somewhat,
liniments, but nothing f ased ™ e t . Gradually these pills enriched my blood and fed and soothed my nerves. Now I
SrJKSKESfe* .tout .. wy— ■
what Mrs. J. Purkis, Forsyth-st„ Newtown, Wagga (N.S.W.), says. .
Dr. WiIIWmSTco., Queen's Place, Sydney. Price, 2*. !M. a box ; six bore,, 15s. 3d. Always in bores-never in bottles.
I


Aboriginalities.
To Contributors. —ln the case of ethnological and
natural history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience ; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific
value.
THE DOGGY
LAND.
TRAVELLER (sol.):
“ Strange! property
seems pretty valuable
round here. Thirteen dogs
guarding one house.”
“ Kooka ” : How many varieties of flying-
fox are there? I have just shot two—one with
brownish fur all over the body, the other with
black fur with a tinge of brown and a white
throat.
WELL MATED.
D UTUHY: “ Fact is, old man, I want to find a wife.”
JIM (his new mate): “ By thunder, it’s lucky we met! I want to lose one !”
Writes “Buzz”:
Now that the drought has fairly broken in Queensland,
we may expect to hear of some sensational transactions
in stock. Most of the Q. meat-works closed down months
ago for want of cattle, but the O.Q. Meat Export Co. at
Lake’s Creek has managed to keep going all through. A
few months ago they started canning and preserving fish
and poultry, with most excellent results, and as the co.
paid a fair price for all fish delivered at its wharf, it
gave fresh life and impetus to the fishing industry. Kep-
pel Bay and the whole of the coast round about Yeppoon
and Emu Park teems with fish—it only wanted a sure
and regular market to set things running, and directly
Lake Creek offered this, several young fellows started
fishing stations on the coast, running their fish up to the
creek per train daily. At one place, a few miles from
Yeppoon, an enterprising one time employee at the
Creek started a canning factory on a small scale, and
having got a very fair market among the Rockhampton,
Mount Morgan, &c., &e., storekeepers, was doing capital
business when last heard from. Less than three years
ago the Central Q. Meat Preserving and Export Works
changed hands —were bought by an English syndicate for
£BO,OOO, one-third cash. The English syndicate, which
got a bargain, has since then entirely changed the man-
agement of the place, which is now run by American
bosses. About two years ago the Lake’s Creek
cattle buyer secured 2000 head from Blackall, to be
held by owner till the drought broke, as the roads
were impassable. Strange to say, these cattle, or
most of them, have survived on scrub, bottle-
tree, or something else ; and now that rain has come, and
the roads will soon be passable, these cattle, while repre-
senting a matter of many thousands to their owners,
will save Lake’s Creek meat-works the humiliation of
having to close down and wait for cattle. By the time
the 2000 are through, others, bought months back, will
be fat enough to travel.
* * * *
“ Kiwi”: Maoriland’s once-abundant bird-
life is perishing fast, partly through the ruthless
waste of our fine forests, but chiefly because of
the introduction of stoats, weasels and ferrets, to
make war upon the rabbits, which are nevertheless
still plentiful, while the country is being overrun
with their “ natural enemies.” Hence our birds
are disappearing rapidly. Ducks of all kinds, the
kiwi, the weka, the kakapa are being swept out of
existence. Nearly all our birds nestle on the
ground, and some of the most interesting species
are wingless. They are, therefore, a ready prey
to enemies against which they have no instinct to
warn them, Worse still, the acclimatised pests
seem to thrive; in fact, the ferret becomes large
and ferocious beyond recognition. I saw one shot
recently which weighed 41bs. It was believed at
first that our climate would keep these creatures
in check, but unhappily it has no such effect, and
—alas for our birds !
* * » *
Dear Bulletin.— ln a somewhat pessi-
mistic article re the spread of the tropical earth-
eating disease, Geraldton (N.Q.) State medical
officer M ‘Donald asserts that, in adults, the com-
plaint carries with it a strong yearning for
alcohol. Can the earth-eating trouble be
responsible for the mostly rummy and beerv
condition of tropical Queenslanders? It is not
unusual to find a whole township, including the
goat and the stray dog, “under the influence.”
Sobriety in general is rare enough up North to be
worth including in Fitzgerald Bros.’ side-show.
Apropos —the drunk in the home of the granadillo
and themurderous Solomon Islander, when charged
with “bein’ spacheless, yorr Washup, an’ dis-
liorrderly, ” can now plead ankylostomiasis. He
is bound to get off if he insists on his plea being
written down. There is hardly a J.P. in the
North who can spell that word. — Dtckolt.
* * * *
“E.R.M.”: Travelling near Warragul
(Vie.), a short time backfl put up at a bush pub.
and was told the following, which has become
quite a legend up there. Stopping at that pub.
for the night, in the early seventies, were the pas-
sengers by the mail coach, among whom was an
exceedingly aggressive Yank. He held forth for
two hours or more in language superbly garnished
with rich curses, upon niggers, whom he “reckoned
to be the goldarnest critturs that ever disgraced
the earth.” In the morning the coach continued
its journey with, to the Yank’s disgust, a nigger
passenger. Soon after, a diversion was caused by
the sticking up of the coach by bushrangers. Ail
passengers were relieved of their valuables, and,
to prevent the alarm being given too soon, were
tied back to back and left some way from the
road. The American’s partner in this “ set ” was
the nigger, and he was bound to that ebony
heathen for 16 hours. When found, the things
he had said had shrivelled up the vegetation for
16 yards either way, and there is still a bare spot
thereabouts to mark the centre of the proceedings,
though the outer parts of the circle have partially
recovered.
* * * *
The health officer of Poowong-and-Jeetho
Shire (Vic.) lately threw a heavy consignment of
insulting language at his employers. After re-
porting on an outbreak of typhoid at Jumounna
—which township does without drains and buries
its night-soil in a paddock above the level of the
houses—he proceeded: “The callousness of the
council for the health of the townspeople in this
shire is appalling. . . Can no sense of duty stir
the local board of health to put our drains in
order, or are we to await the advent of a scourge
THE BABES IN THE BUSH.
The cocky’s siveated labor; hewers of wood and
drawers of water.
to decimate the community before it stirs the
members’ lethargy? Typhoid fever is a dirt
disease; I desire, therefore, as the local health
mincer and as a citizen, to impress on the council
the immediate necessity for action, even if it has
to beg, borrow or steal the money.” And the
shire magnates weren’t annoyed at being insulted
thus openly ; they merely decided that it wasn’t
advisable to increase the rates on any account.
“Gumbo”: Re Bob R. (8., 20/6/'O3).
Foxes do kill lambs, occasionally eating the head
off. I have seen a fox making off with a fair-sized
lamb in mouth—perhaps, though, it was a ‘‘ stray’'
being taken back to the ewe by the kind-hearted
fox. Reynard and bunny will batch together
and I am always on the watch for a new hybrid.
• * * *
A tale of the country beyond the BarcoO :
Kidley Williams had occupied Burbanks station for 30
years. In the eighties he thought he was a rich man.
They were branding 3000 -calves a year. In the early
nineties a change set in, and things grew worse and worse,
until in 1902 they branded two calves ! But just then
the rains came, and the grass sprang as it had not done
for years. He listened to the siren’s song, and hesitated.
It might all come right, after all. Then he reflected that
it was only annual grass and light herbage that had
sprung ; the old drought-resisting plants were all gone.
He counted the cost of re-stocking ; he counted the risk;
then, plucking up courage, he packed his portman-
teau, sent on what few head of stock were left, and
abandoned Burbanks, improvements and all.
* • • *
“ Riv.” : Harry went from the river bend
where we were camped to the Homestead for
rations, but came back empty-handed. “I only
saw the storekeeper,” he said; “an’ I couldn’t
get nothin’ from him, the cow! But I shook him
up. I ses: ‘I suppose yer laborin’ under the
seclusion that we’ve got plenty tucker, are yer—
yer blot on the face o’ Providence? Further-
more,’ sez I, ‘if you call yerself a gentleman—yer
nothin’ but a blanky perforator of the truth ! ’
My word !” finished Harry, enthusiastically, “he
did look. Talk about a surprise ! Why he was
fairly putrified to the spot! ”
“ F.C.” : Had some experience of
one of Bent’s blackleg drivers lately ;
don’t want any more. Left Gembroolt
(40 miles from town) at 5 p.m., arrived
Melbourne 10 p.m. Changed first at Fern
Tree Gully. Here Bent’s angel took
charge. He meandered gradually along
till past Ringwood, where the Mitcham
hill has to be tackled. He had two
shots at this, and finally surmounted it.
After Mitcham came the down grade,
and here he shone. He overshot the
next station by about a train length.
Dwelt there for five minutes, then slowly
backed his machine to the platform.
He went flying past the next station
altogether, but managed to pull up a
mile further on. Then the guard’s voice
was heard inquiring if there was “Any-
one for Blackburn?” One small voice
piped out “ Yes,” but we in the smoker
urgently desired its owner to hold his
peace or we’d be there all night. Amid
a chorus of yells to Bent to come and
give his beauty a hand, to get off and
shove, and other complimentary re-
marks, we moved off as gradually as
before, arriving at Box Hill to find the
connecting Melbourne train gone long
ago. We were full up of Bent and his
“loyalists,” but what the half-dozen
passengers left behind at Blackburn
station thought of Tommy’s pet isn’t
known and wouldn’t be printable if it
were.
* * * *
“ B-.A.P.” : Astonishing the care-
lessness with which some stumpers and
wood-splitters deal with dynamite. Re-
cently saw two stumpers working, each
with a plug of dynamite inside his shirt;
the idea being that the warmth of the
body would soften it ready for use. One
man was chopping and the other fooling
round with a lever. In another man’s
camp, one night, I found him pensively
pulverising dynamite with the butt end of a
wedge. He had some more lying close to the
fire, being warmed. When remonstrated with,
be stated that there was no danger, and added
that he had often driven a plug into a hole too
small for it, with a maul! He was reaching for
an axe to illustrate bis remarks when I left hur-
riedly. Now, what does start dynamite, besides
the usual percussion cap ?
A LAMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(“ On and after July Ist no more weather forecasts for
Australia are to be issued by Mr. Clement Wragge from,
Brisbane.”— Official Announcement.)
There is sorrow at the heart-strings of the man who sails
the sea,
And the farmer and the squatter are as sad as sad cau
be ;
Our daily life seems duller, and a cloud has dimmed the
sun,
For the Weather Prophet passeth, and the Seer’s work is
done !
Let us touch the harp-strings gently, let us play a muted!
chord ;
Let us shun the good old flowing bowl, and flee the
festive board ;
Let us mourn , awhile together, town and country, farm
and ship ;
Like a foal that’s lost its parent, let us hang our lower
lip.
Let us turn our faces earthward—that once sought the
fulgent stars,
We liiay gaze no more at Clement’s barometric isobars 1
For we burn with indignation at the cruel, stern decree—
“ iou shall hear no more from Brisbane what the
weather is to be /”
Do they know—these dour dictators—what their dark
deed really means
To the miner, and the milkman, and the party growing
greens?
To the cabbages of Brighton, and the spuds of Warrnam-
bool ?
To the anxious bargain-hunter, and the festive Sunday-
school ?
Ay, and more, to strong men walking—how the dickens
will they tell
If it’s going to be fine or is about to rain like hell?
And what about new weather (when the old lot’s bald and
grey)
The stuff they used to turn out fresh at Brisbane every
day?
Must we linger while the dun years spin their weary warp
and weft,
Living on moth-eaten weather that Wragge dropped here
when he left?
On aged scraps of climate, musty, frayed and second-
hand,
When we want fresh climate daily, just like any other
land ?
Shall we live on stale tinned cyclones, just to save the
Prophet’s screw ?
Patch the seats of worn-out droughts, and try to think
them fresh and new?
Or rouse the heathen’s scoff by sending to him in his lair,
Humbly asking .if he has a half-soled isotherm to spare?
Shall the alien see at midnight a Thing all torn and rent,
Prospecting in his ash-keg, or o’er his gutter bent,
Seeking disused isobars, or, struggling with his dog,
shall he
See it stealing old “depressions?” Shall he know that
Thing is we?
Shall we cadge for misfit monsoons from the stranger cold
and hard ?
Prig humidity that’s drying on the clothes-line in his
yard ?
O Australia, be a nation strong—a folk to manhood grown
And decide to pay your Prophet and have weather of
your own 1
O. C. OABOT.
CALLIN’.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
0, the Road’s a-callin’, mate ;
Time to up and get.
Feel yer blood run quick and straight,
Oampin’ early, risin’ late,
Goin’ slow, you bet.
Hear the roosters crowin’ loud
In the early morn,
Over ranges purple-browed—
Sun just burstin’ through a cloud,
And ye know yer born.
Jackass sittin’ on a limb
Laughin’ fit to bust;
What the bunyip tickles him
You don’t know, but just join in
O’er a breakfast crust.
Lizards sleepin’ by the way,
Parrots skimmin’ by;
Scent of rain-damp earth, and hay,
Silences of twilight grey,
River, plain, and sky.
Blasted bustle of the town
Failin’ well behind.
Sprintin’ thieves with heads bent down
Racin’ for a stray half-crown—
Out of sight—and mind 1
0, the Road’s a-callin’, mate ;
Callin’ you and me,
Sons of hers, so pack up straight,
Open-armed she lies await.
Out we travel, free !
VIC.
L.M.D.
To Play your Piano
E
The Pianola will aid you*
Would you believe there are nearly one
hundred thousand pianos lying idle in
Australia ?
Did it ever occur to you how very little
your piano is being used ?
Do you know the Pianola will enable
you to play your piano at once, although
you may never have plajed one note in
your life ?
If you will write us we will mail you
free a catalogue explaining how. Ask for
Catalogue “B.”
The price of the Pianola is £6O prompt
cash, or £65 on moderate monthly pay-
ments.
&
HENRY M. BJRGE & GO.,
Sole Agents for Australasia,
SYDNEY : 323 George St.,
MELBOURNE 18.M87 Collins Si.
MR. J. SPENCER NOLAN, R.D.S
owe*t prices. Guaranteed absolutely painless extractions by latest American system—a great
u ‘ and perfect-fitting atmospheric suction sets of American teeth, giving the wearer ease,
r£ii appearance. Coraline iruni nlafces. without - , simmers nr wimc iriaafin Cum envniinn <«
DENTAL SURGEON, 43 Oxford-Bt.» Sydney
•| (between Mark Foy’s and Kiley-st.). HIGH-CLASS
DENTISTRY at lowest prices,
success. Beautiful and perfe<
SriSTf' Comline gum plates, without springs or'wi'res". Elaitic Sum Coraline is the
that it Sh p ]? te for counting teeth. All wrinkles and hollow cheeks disappear. It is so natural
Cora!„*f !‘ 0r c01 “ Eort > strength and lightness it surpasses everything previously introduced,
svsten Tin to date lod? 168 *’ ai ‘ d r ® m^ ln3 wholesome and pure. Badly fitting plates remodelled on this new
d "°’ d < : l ; 0 "'“ s - Cal ‘ ‘} ,ld see specimens of latest methods. Upper and lower sets from £l ls.
Single teeth from ss. Teeth idled, scaled and bleached. Country visitors fitted in one day if required.
DAVID STOBiER & SONS’ ln Threfl Qolqm-black, bed and blue
Registered
Trade
Mark.
Is the Only Absolutely
safe
The Perfect Sheep-Marker, SHEEP BRANDING OIL
Kept by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.


“Kati Kati”: Be tooth - drawing
experience. When a boy, took gas once
Dentist advertised process as absolutely
painless, and assured me I would never
feel the extraction. I never did. Fat in
his chair, breathed the gas, and quickly
forgot all about teeth and toothaches in a
dream that I was in hell and suffering all
the torments of the lost. I had just said
to myself, “This is likely to last, so I must
just make the best of it,” when I came back
to the dentist’s, and found the tooth had
been extracted without my noticing it at
all. Have had two teeth out since then
I jerked them out on my own. It is not
worth while to go to hell to have one s
teeth extracted without pain. An old
farmer told me that, when a boy, his father
used to extract the children’s first teeth
by fastening a string round the trouble-
some customer and giving it a half-hitch
around the chimney bar short enough to
bring the child unpleasantly near the fire.
In half a minute he would begin to scorch,
and rush back on his haunches, leaving the
tooth where it was tied. But I don’t
know about the invariable truthfulness of
old farmers.
* * * *
“Deeby”: The “w< od-adder” of
western N. 9. W., a lizard about long,
dark brown with blue-black markings, is
reputed to be very venomous. Have heard
of persons, bitten by this reptile, losing a
finger and even a hand ; but have never been
able to verify such statements. Can any-
one else? [lf the creature is venomous,
it should have grooved fangs and a poison-
sac, like the Mexican “escorpion” (Helo-
derma horridusj, the only venomous lizard at
present known to science.]
* * * *
“6x8”: I want to know, whether rain-
manufacturer Dr. M ‘Carthy is any better at
stopping rain than at making it? Can he bring
down dry weather? In many parts of tropical
Queensland a rain-stopper is the person mostly
in demand just now. If anything, floods are
worse than droughts. A drought sets one moving
to wetter climes, but a flood imprisons you and
condemns you to live on the flesh of the gruesome
gohanna that swam to your island or gum-tree
in search of safety.
* * * *
For a droughty land, Australia has an
amazing number of rain makers. As soon as
Broken Hill started to make terms with M‘Carthy,
they all rushed that dry and distracted city.
Most of them relied simply on prayer; the obvious
advantage of that process was that it didn’t
require any plant, and there wasn’t any need to
spend money on a railway-ticket. One offered to
pray until rain came at Is. an hour, This one, a
female, didn’t specify, however, whether she
worked on the eight-hour principle, or whether
she would keep going the whole 24 hours, and the
Council put the offer aside as too indefinite. A
few wanted the cash wired. “ I have a wonderful
power given to me to help my people,” one wrote.
“ I can see the force that is being used to bring
rain is of little value. Telegraph sufficient for
my expenses to the Hon. It. E. O’Connor, and I
will pray for you.” The municipality did not
know just how large a professional pray-er’s
expenses were, but reckoned that if he hired a
K.C. as an agent they must be fairly high, and so
did not risk it. As soon as McCarthy got to
business there was another downpour of letteis.
They were mostly in women’s writing, and nearly
all of them solemnly warned Broken Hill that it
was offering a deadly insult to high Heaven—that
it was relying upon a base usurper, and that if it
kept dry for seven years it was its own fault.
* * * *
As an example of the peculiar unfitness
for their posts of most of the members of the Vic.
Cabinet, may be quoted a remark of Minister of
Lands and Agi’iculture J. W. Taverner to the
Gippsland run-holders who asked for time to get
their cattle off the land to be thrown open for
selection. On learning—it was news to him —
that there are 190,000 head of cattle running on
this—for the most part—scrub country, the eyes
W. J. WILSON, scenic artist, ex-manager i and
well-known theatrical identity, whose friends
propose tendering him a benefit at an early
date. [Photo, by Grouzelle, Sydney.]
of the Taverner gleamed hungrily. “A jolly
good thing,” he said; “ I’m always grumbling at
my butcher’s bill. Let’s have these cattle brought
in' to the Melbourne yards, and we’ll see a drop
in the price of beef ! ” The deputation foamed at
the mouth, and only Allan M'Lean found words
to answer. “Man,” said he, pityingly—“man !
d’ye think folk keep fats i’ the scrub country?
If ye went yersel’ an’ yar-r-ded up every hoof o’
the puir scrubbers to-morrow ye’d no get enough
beef for yer ain dinner among the lot 1 ”
* * * *
“Jimmie Pot”: Why do folk so often
assert that the old Cornstalk town of Windsor is
a weary, sleepy, drowsy place ? In a recent issue
of the local Gazette there appear cautions against
interference with children, against making mis-
chief between me and mother, against keeping
property that does not belong to one; also
Challenges to various contests for huge amounts—
Jenkins offering to jump Jones for £5, and things
like that. Perhaps Windsor is having a Renais-
sance. It was lively and snappy in the olden
golden days.
“ Warree ” We hear much ab
times about Sydney registry office methods,
but nothing is ever said about country
ditto. The country R.O. mostly combines
with that business the advantages of a
home for the. out-of-work domestic, pre-
sided over by an old female harpy; charges
about 15s. a week. One unclean room
serves for ah the “lodgers.” The registry
fee and the board money are always made
a first charge on the wages, and heaven
help the unfortunate creature who seeks
to evade payment.
* * *
“ Grant Hervey ” ; I saw an Italian
the other day struggling between patriot-
ism and profit, and profit won. Guiseppe
keeps a bodega oi the better class—if there
are any ; also he fought (battle-scare shown
on application) with Garibaldi in the Italian
revolutionary wars ; and lately bought an
almost sacred picture of the Great Scarlet
Shirt to hang in the bar. Enter commercial-
traveller Bull, one of Guiseppe’s best
customers. Said Bull : “ Hullo ! ’Seppe,
who’s that old Dago up there—him with
the red bed curtain on?” Guiseppe (mo-
mentarily speechless, then recovering) :
“ Meestaire 800 l ! you ar-r-re beastly hog !
—I beg your pardonne, Meestaire Bool.’'
Customer Bull . “ Oh, but tell us who
the old josser is, ’Seppe ; Dago corn-doctor,
or what ? ” Guiseppe : “ Meestaire Bool!!
—you go to hell !—I apologise, Meestaiia
Bool; zat is zegr-reat Garibald ! I fight
with him one, free, eleventeen battles
—ha ! by gar, yes !—ze wicker Chianti ?
Yais, orright ; free. Giuletta, Meestaire
800 l haf call.”
* * * *
An audacious wool-robbery was nipped
in the bud near Gummin (N.S.W.) in 1900.
Incited by the wool-boom, some brigands started
shearing—simultaneously with the station —in
some scrub near the boundary. The sheep were
taken from the paddocks, shorn, and put back
with the sheep shorn by the station. But the
operators neglected to brand the jumbucks, and a
smart stockman soon noted the number of “ clean-
skins.” A search was made, and the camp found
with 100 fleeces in it. No catch was made.
Ready on Ist. August. The Bulletin’s new
book, “ Such is Life !” by Tom Collins. 4s. 6d.
Whoever would be “ Cock o’ the walk ”
Must open his mouth and crow loud,
For whispers and mutters are plainly not talk,
And very soon lost in a crowd.
We take special care that vve may be heard,
Our knowledge we cannot immure,
For bad coughs and colds the stuff that’s preferred
Is Woods’ Great Peppermint Cuke.*
Oerebos Salt.
Used at table and in cooking, Cerebos Salt is
not only dainty and economical, but it makes all
the food more strengthening; because it con-
tains the Bran Phosphates (absent from White
Bread) out of which Nature forms Nerve and
Brain, Bones and Teeth, and Healthy Body.
From Qrocers and Stores
Wholesale Agents .-—Harrison & Attvrood, Sydney.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. Ko liability is under-
taken in any case re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by post or handed in ; and in
no case will MS. be returned unless stamps (of any
State) accompany.
A.E. : But the lady who, incited by a palmist,
murdered four husbands, was hard fact. Do you never
read the papers ? Riverina: Fairly well written, but
has a disappointing finish.,..Madame G. : Flimsy and
unsatisfactory Simpatica : All rather flat and feeble.
....F. M‘o. : Too clumsily contrived... .Quex: But the
English didn’t “ destroy the Armada.” They disposed of
only 30 ships out of 150. The elements disposed of 60 of
the remainder, so that bub 54 gob home again N.O. 1
Hardly finish enough Miriam : Varies from tolerably
good to intolerably bad ... Helen F.: It doesn’t fall far
short Treble M.: The subject is obviously beyond
your strength.... J.N. (W.A.): Just like 100 other mining
yarns Maorilander: Good idea ineffectively handled...
Buffer: Not up to much, and cost 4d. for short postage...
X. : If that gentleman could have got the post he would
have jumped at it. Part of the political game is to allow
people to say that they have refused posts which were
never available to them....J.M.0.C.: Most of it alburn
verse, and not even Australian album. “Home-Sick’
the best Sanitas :‘ • Lysol ”is practically a prepara-
tion of carbolic acid. It claims to be, and probably is,
far less poisonous than most antiseptics of the same
strength Adonis: Can’t cover the whole ground of
objections in declining a poem; a salient one is printed ;
there may be dozens of others.... Ostian : Trite.. ..Fire-
light: Good ideas but old; mediocre verse—Step:
Will print “Where are the Others?” E.H.H..
“Tramp Steamers” accepted.. ..Shadow : Half inclined
to print “ After-Glow.” Perhaps rather more than half
say decimal 74.... Dux: “Last Dash” is awful.. . - Ed. :
“Passing of George,’’ a few good lines only.... Alone:
“Wear and Tear” declined Cold Water: A foolish
production... .Owl-Light: Crude and clumsy.... Kud :
Don’t fancy any of them.... Mrs. Grundy: A graceful
fancy, but too slight for print Rita S. : Verse weak ;
yarn not well t01d.... A. Namacher: Rather pathetic,
but interest too slender... .Sesame : Just missed being
good enongh.. ..Eveline A. : Rather pretty, but don 0
care for allegories.... Gilbert A.: Too stiff and prosy.
And there’s no such quotation as “ When Greek meets
Greek.” The passage (in one of Lee’s comedies) runs :
“ When Greeks joined Greeks, then came,” &c....
A.G.M. : There’s something in the idea, but you don 6
write correctly or effectively.. ..Rose M.S.: Nothing to
distinguish it from 1000 other such vision- stories....
Roma: “What is to Be” hasn’t a strong enough in-
terest.. ..G.W.F.: Prim, precise, flat, lifeless.... Amy
G.: Too spasmodic and jerky.... Ophir: Much too • •
Alone: Don’t care for “ Poor old Man.” Q.N.: Pretty
album verse.... Skeeter: Too long-winded altogether;
make your buzz short, sharp and pointed.. . .5.0.0. J. :
An out-of-season spring poem to your girl; should find a
place in her album... .W.H.P : It wouldn’t open up new
ground. The fads can go under “Personal,” the crazes
under “ Society,” and the cranks to the w.p.b J.S.K.:
Joke sinful.... Wahgunyah : (1) There is no sex problem.
There are two sexes and some “ between-sizes who
imagine there is a problem ; (2) Populations (1900)
many, 27,737,247 males, 28,629,931 females; France has a
total of 38,961,945—ab0ut equally divided between males
and females... .Grunt: “ Handcuffed ” doesn’t arrive....
A Reader (Adelaide): If you will read the par again in-
stead of getting into hysterics you will see that it doesnC
“ cast a slur ” on your friend, but on the Governor who l
used him as a scapegoat and about whose doings your
friend knew too much. Seemingly you have some un-
clean yarn in your mind that our correspondent hadn t
heard 0f....E.R.: We’ve had that yarn already „
One of the Unsuccessful: Opinion is that if ‘ Tatt s
divided the unclaimed prize money among the unlucky
ticket-holders there would be about lid. for each man, and
when the 2d. stamp was paid the glad recipient would.
owe Tatt.’s id Wunda: A needlessly complicated
plot. With fewer personages and a simpler action, the
story would have been a capital one... .D.B.F. : One or
tnem tolerable, but not up to mark Cyma :We didn t
tackle such an ignominious scribble... .J.W. (M.L.).
Promised well, but slumped badly towards end... Gatling :
Received 10-verse poem about a horse, beginning
The champion of Australia
At the English stud seems to be a failure.
Also another poem quite as bad, if not worse.. ' i
v a d : Terribly old joke Janus : Verses handed to Red
Page man Inexpers : Declined for many reasons....
J.S.: Something heavy must have rolled over that joke...
....L.M.N. : “Wren" poem slain in cold blood Rer
Panes: “Devii’e B.” and “Two and a Third” were
declined, if we remember rightly. Other two will appear
shortly. There is only room for a certain amount of verse
in each issue, and can’t guarantee space every week.
“Sweet Neil" under doubtful consideration J. Eck-
ford : (1) The country resident in N.S.VV. is twice as.
prone to suicide as the city man, which slays your poem
dead. Also, he has less cause for suicide. Poverty in
the city often means being turned into the streets.
In the bush, as a rule, the humpy remains, and the
’possum and the parrot often supply some kind of foocu
LIFE IN OUR VILLAGE.
JOHNNIE: “I should think life was awfully
demned dull in these parts, my man?"
BOB: “Not so bad. You just wait an hour or
so, an’ hear Bill cuss when he wakes up and
finds Joe’s goat’s been an’ eaten his boots.
An' if ye like, I'll bet yer a beer that Sam falls
down soon as he lets go the post."
’Possum is scarce in the city Unsuitable: J.P.C
L.A.8.: No, only the one edition at 6s. so far L.8.E.:
Yon miss the mark mostly by being too prolix
Louburke : A plagiarism—deliberate or otherwise
Balmain: But the typhoid bacillus has, unlike other
bacilli, some power of independent movement; if brought
into a house it may easily find its way into the milk jug.
Wandi: The joke is so small it is not worth publish-
ing on any authority.. ..Ralston : What’s interesting from
Albury (N.S.W.) isn’t always interesting from abroad ....
L.D. : You’ve been driven to drink—and poetry—from
insufficient cause H. : Your proposal wouldn’t remedy
the gab evil, unless each member was given so short a
time as to make the regulation unworkable... .A.E.B. :
Not bright enough Maorilander : Neither “ Reverie ”
nor “ Steamer’s Wake ” much g00d... .K.H. : “ Town to
Country” only medium ; “ Unrest” ditto Gerald B.:
“ Vanished Envy ” declined. “ Unsung ” gone the same
road Golden Butterfly: Wooden poem—ironbark
probably Walter Beard: The Australian Parliament
House, Melbourne, will find him.... J.A.B. : No, wedon’t
regard them as reliable.
The Victorian Artists’ Show.
The Y.A.S. is holding another annual winter
demonstration at the galleries in Albert-street.
Melbourne, and to look around those galleries
with a bilious eye, after reading the local press
notices of this year’s display, is to wonder whether
the writers take their ideas from the artists who
provide it. Leaving 100 unambitious water-colors
out of the question, there are about 140 oil-
paintings, mostly such as no true artist would
submit to the public for approval. Why disguise
the fact that the desire to make a fair-sized show
tempts every Australian art society to flatter the
pretensions of hopeless daubers and dabblers .
Perhaps the worst of the pictures are less un-
worthy of admission than the worst in previous
years, but after giving hearty thanks to the
committee for the things it didn’t hang, there
is little left to be grateful for. Take the
“ star” productions. Nerli’s portrait of Rev.
Dr. Marshall is a large irritating article, priced at
,£200105., the ten shillings corresponding with the
odd three farthings on a draper s ticket. Ihis
apostolic advertisement is a reminder of the Dr.
Bevan portrait which Nerli exhibited last year.
The Rev. Dr. was shown in his habit as he lives
when expounding the earthly blessings of 1 ree-
trade to his disciples. Rev. Marshall appears in
full pulpit garb ; his black and white whiskers
are turned somewhat heavenwards and he wears
the smug smile of a good shepherd returning
thanks for rain. Catalogued as a humorous design
for a stained-glass window figure, the study in
black and white would be well enough. As the
second in a series of glorified parson portraits it
calls for protest. Other parsons, doubtless, are
waiting 1 their turn, and a picture of Bishop
Clarke saying his prayers may come next.
* * • *
Three or fout other pictures by Nerli have been
hailed as masterpieces. The praise has been laid
■on too thick. “Gwendoline” (222) is a dolly-faced
child in white satin frock and pink shoes. A
profusion of pink and white roses adds to the
painful effect of little Gwen’s “ get-up ”; she has
an unconvincing arm and hand, and she utterly
lacks the charm which Longstaff imparted to
his portrait of Marjorie Williamson. “My Lady
in Green ” (169) depicts a thin, bony lady in a
pea-green evening dress. Her bare bust and
arms seem to cry aloud for concealment, and the
■essential unloveliness of the picture is accentuated
by an affectation of “strength.” “Bacchante
(165), the bizarre presentment of a whirling
Eastern woman—also by Nerli—is welcome
for the sake of its rich decorative scheme ot
■color, but concerning the giddy females figure
nothing seems certain, except that it is inhuman,
and the neck is painted out of all sympathy with
the shoulders. A clever artist is entitled to be an
impressionist in a work of this sort, but
at least avoid impressions of impossibilities.
“Motherhood,” by Fred M’Gubbin (11), is a
family group —mamma in red gown, seated on a
log; small daughter, two boys and the dawg,
against a forest background. The coloring is not
a triumph ; the lady and the two little ones beside
her might have been posed by a photographer, but
they are pretty subjects for a good, honest picture.
With a second picture—a girl in white—MLubbin
scores somewhat.
* * * *
“Equestrian Portrait,” by Hugh Ramsay (25),
is a vast stretch of canvas. A rather wooden
young man leans one arm upon a formidable dark
bay horse in the immediate foreground, whilst the
animal nibbles grass. An aggressively brown
study. A flat brown hill or wall of paint is
placed behind the horse. Of course, there are
some good points about this extensive production,
or it wouldn’t be covering such a large area of a.rt
gallery. The hands of the young man are realistic,
likewise the horse, when considered on its huge
“ own ” whereas the heavily outlined face of the
man is lifeless. The work of a promising novice
■on an heroic scale. Walter Withers, sane and
■careful as usual, contributes two capital Australian
landscapes, with plain truth in them, and John
Forde Patterson, also in his familiar style, gets
-very near to poetic excellence with ‘ Ihe
Lagoon ” (39), a pale moonlight picture that anyone
can admire at once and go on admiring—if alreac.y
accustomed to J.F.P.’s mannerisms. Schelten.a
and Arthur' Boyd repeat themselves pleasantly
and the more passable of the Melbourne lady
artists are represented by respectable works in
some cases. But in the large majority of the
pictures something, or everything, is distinctly
-wrong—drawing, coloring, composition, or what
not. The painters are not supplying a Want.
They have no more claim to approval than has a
bad actor who worries along in the theatrical pro-
fession, for the vanity that influences either sort
of pretender is one and the same. The public
has no time to discover evidence of petty techni-
cal proficiency in pictures which don t impress
it forcibly, or vaguely, or delight it at all. or
the artists and their circle of friends there is
some entertainment in believing that geese are
swans, especially when one poses in the character
, of a swan.
ENORHOUS REDUCTIONS in SPOONS and FORKS.
MAPPIN
and WEBB
the makers of
our Spoons &
Forks have ad-
vised us that,
consequent
upon the in-
troduction of
«!!!!!!!«!!
of Silver, they are able to make enormous reductions in price
improved machinery and the fall in the price
“Fx. & R ”
No. 1 Quality.
Table Spoons - ■ • 32/- doz.
Table Folks • • - 32/- „
Dessert Spoons - - 26/6 „
Dessert Forks • - 26/6 ~
Tea Spoons - - - 14/6 „
“Fx. & R.”
No. 2 Quality.
Table Sptona - * * 24/- doz
Table Porks - * • 24/- „
Dessert Spoons - - 19/- ~
Dessert Forks - - 19/- „
Tea Spoons • • • 12/- „
London Prices
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter St.


\ KYABRAMMINtT IN THE
\ FEDERAL SPHERE, 1
. ,0. £&
A't a S. Australian meeting reso-
lutions have been passed “opposing
4he -proposed Judiciary Bill, the
inter-State Commission, estab-
lishment of the : Federal ca,pi
tal, and generally advo-
cating: the use of State
agencies wherever prac-
ticable for Federal pur-
poses.” — Newt item.
i. -jSc*'
t« vofl 2cv» eV n \<V O? 48 ’''
' 0 \
?*** 6 \<i^ e
_ The Judge having said that there was “perjury somewhere”
lin the case of Crick v. O’Connor, Dan O’Connor wants to bo
I prosecuted or investigated or something in order to clear him-
self of all suspicion. John See refuses to interfere. Now, why
shouldn’t Dan arrest and prosecute himself and thus prove that
the perjury wasn’t on his side 1
This is Dan arresting himself after a great struggle.
*“ The Premier chooses to sneer at
Mr. Eden George. I safely say that
never in my experience, extending
over 16 years, wa's a speec h of several
hours’ duration listened to by a
House with more interest. It was a
vigorous attack, pungent, fluent; and
sustained from start to finish?—*Mk.
Carbothbrs in Sydney Telbgrap*.
-OX® v \
*£&>
t>' 1 '
i&rN.S. Wales’s Joseph is always declarim;
that he won’t bow down to the Labor
He evidently likes hit josser
MORE LIGHT!
Speaking of presentations—Joseph has been presented with a u 44ightj
Cindelabra ” by his supporters, who seem to think that he is not -a man to j
e trusted;, in the dark.
FEDERAL EXTRAVAGANCE
CONDEMNED
Carried-unanimously that this
branch yiews.with alarm, &«, &c.
I “ might be obsolete according
to the British Navy standard and not
obsolete according to other standards."—
Premier Barton.
Aostraua : “ But she’s obsolete ! ”
Actiralty : “ Obsolete for us—but quite
up-to-date for Australia ?
I
1
And rnEN it didn't
RAIN !
federal and other matters.


' “ The surplus is a source of the greatest
gratification. The people find in it the
certainty of relief from the oppressive :
features of the Income l av. v
** "Was the present a time to inflict so
grievous a wrong upon, Australia, when
all energies should be allowed the utmost
freedom to develop the resources of the
country ? Every man who supported this
measure should be a marked man.—Mr. '
F. T. Derham to Melbourne Employers'
Federation,_
Income Taxpayer.—“ Don’t waste that
on the hungry mob. Converted into
a poultice it'll reduce this swelling/’
=—Come
conjound Xo y>u wdnf
1o sPoil d (food
• 1?#?*
IKe IravdWr.— 7 -., . t
i. nr w. p *fy* sdWe.help me • •
lm me Melbourne Vdm- mdUer.. «- . \ -t
I’ii ou whole- cdboodle \° r d mof ojWd
4f e f.° 0 0itf,
D “™»si kTs-
but W j' ’ w ; sair deefeculty
thls transinees on^T® tb «
~ Md ’ mo ”.Hs varra cheap °° thin S
wssq
Hopeless.
The Lady.—“ Catch me wearing that.
Why, the thing's out of fashion ! ”
“Tho Minister of Defence, does not re-
gard the excuses for the failure to provide
'Governor Le Hun te, of South Australia,
\yltli a proper military esoert as satisfac-
tory, and has called upon Colonel Lyster
for a full explanation.
His Excellency makes no complaint,
howover, admitting that he was in good
hands.
MOSTLY IN THE CABBAGE-GARDEN.


A. SAUNDERS FOR WEDDING PRESENTS.—SEND DIRECT TO 816 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class Hobnail Cat, 0- Bottle C RT7RT, Pure Sil?cz*
plated, on hard white metal, £3 j
4-Bottle, £2, without shield.
Send for llli.titrated Price Li;,6,
A. BAUJTDERB.
tr pi a GTCTS, Consist of 8 Article*., Te\ Pot, Sugar Basin, and Milk Jug. with lids, gilt inode, pure Silver-plated,
making o wms*. useful and handsome present. £4 is. Similar pattern, 4 o’o. sue, £2 15s, £3, £3 10s.
Bend for Complete Illustrated List of Tea Beta.
A. SAUNDERS.
CARD RECEIVER, newest design, nioely chased
and embossed, van Silver-plated, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
BHAYER’S FRIEND, highly polished nickel silver
mounts, bevelled edge Mirror, Shaving Brush,
Soap Basin, Paperclip on Black Bure, Hss.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated PICK LB
JAR, square-cut {jlasß,
27s 6d.
A. SAUNDEB’
SILVER PLATE
IB THE VERY BEST.
WE SELL ONLY HIGH-CLASS
QUALITY.
Post Free to any Special Address
Bequired.
SEND FOB OTJB
1903
Illustrated Catalogue.
Post Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
Floral Crown Derby China BISCUIT
BARREL. Silver -plated mounts, 255.
Similar styles 20s, 22s 6d, 30s.
A. SAUNDEKB.
Highly engraved, extra quality,
Bilver-plated CAKE BASKET 253.
Other styles 21s, 30s, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Tare Silver-Dialed on hard white
metal BUTTER DISH,
Chased and Ornamented, 3es, £2.
C-' NDLESTICK, Silver-plated,
8s 6d ; oilier styles, l‘2s 6d, 15s dd.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pitre Silver plated on hard white metal.
Oval-sliapid RUTTER DISH fes Gd,
Round 10s.
Breaktast CRUET, pure
silver, on hard white metal,
best quality, l(is 6il ;
very best quality, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Silver-plated Nickel Silver TOAST RACK,
12s 6d, Otker styles, 10s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Pure Silver-mounted Hob-
nail Cut Glass Cerebua
SALT CASTOR,
5a 6d, 6a 6d, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Handsome Presentation WALNUT CLOCK, 14 day, i hour
Cathedral double chiming gong, £5. Similar design, £5 ss, £5 10s.
Without Chimes, striking hours and half only, 355, £2, £2 10s, £3.
Send for Illustrated Book of Clocks.
A. SAUNDERS.
TEAPOT, Pure Silver-plated Nicely Chased, 27s 6d.’
Similar patterns, 17s od, 20s, 30s, £2.
Jas. Dixon and Sons' famous Silver-plate,
A. SAUNDERS.
EGG CRUET and SUOUNS 2D,
pure Silver -plated. Other styles 255, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted Cut Glass KNIFE
BEST 3, in Silk-lined Case, 15s 6d.
Extra ornamented cut glass 21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR SCUTTLE, beautifully chased,
pure silver electro-plated on white
metal, 255. Similar 21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated Nickel Silver BUTTER
DISH, A 1 quality, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Combination TOAST RaCIC and EGG
ERAME, Silver-plated, 255.
A. SAUNDKRB.
Pure Silv r-plated Hobnail Cut Glass Trifle or
FRUIT DISH, £.2, £3los.
mm
eou
sum
r
E
A. SA.UNDEES.
Heart-shaped SALTS, Pure Silver-mounted,
with Solid Silver Spoons, in Silk-lined Case, 13s 6d.
A. SaUJNDEKS.
Latest Improved tiapid Focusing FIELD GLASSES, very sharp and
effective, and most reliable, £2 10s.
Other Similar Styles 12s rid, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s. 85s, 40s,
up to £lolos.
A. BAUNDERS.
Two SERVIETTE RINGS, in Silk-Ened Case, pure S'lver*
plated on hard nickel silver, 12s 6d, 15s.
Pure solid silver, same design, 20s. Extra heavy 2os.
nin!!;
A. SAUNDERS.
Pm re Silver-plated on hard white metal 4 o’clock
TEA SPOONS and TONUS, nicely embossed handles,
12s 6d, 15s 6d.
Four-bottle Lunch or Dinner
CRUET. Pure Silver Electro-
plated, 17s 6d.
Other styles, 21s, 255, 30s.
Send for price list.
jtJkuru^erA
LOUDON J.SYDHE.Y
S«E
A. SAUNDERS.
Bure Silver-plated JAM SPOON’ and BUTTER KNIPE,
nicely engraved and beaded, in Silk-lined case l‘2s 6d,
Similar 7s 6d, 10s, * ‘2os.
m
wtv
A. SAUNDERS.
fare Silver-plated BREAD BOARD and KNIFE
complete, 255. Other styles, 30s, 355, £2.
A. SAUNDERS,
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER AND
SILVERSMITH,
GO
CO
CD
0£
CD
lO
CO
GO
GO
GO
(OPPOSITE REDFERN
RAILWAY STATION.)


“ Jaybell ” on Queensland old age allowances:
Railway and Works Minister Leahy now disburses the
charitable endowments of his much-reconstructed State ;
and is wearing his finger-nails down to the quick in a
mighty effort to fatten his charges on half rations.
Every possible move is being put forward to take back
the grudged weekly ss. from the aged poor—conceded
some two or three years ago without special
Parliamentary sanction. In a number of instances
the pensions are thrown with violence on
his hands by old folks unable longer to
tolerate his “police visitation” annoyance. The per-
sonal remarks of some of the hoofy callers would land
them forcibly in a horizontal position on the pavement
if addressed to younger generations. One perambulating
mass of intelligence wound up his strictures on a refined,
but unhappily poor, female acquaintance of mine,
recently, by informing her that, “Av yez have aven a
twinty-second cousin in th’ counthry, he’ll be med sup-
port ye ; th’ Guvvermint can’t be doin’ it all th’ toime for
yez, ye know.” Later, when the same genius learned
that the distressed gentlewoman had a son-in-law, earn-
ing enough to wallow in the luxury of a new suit every
four years, he grew passionate and slammed the gate,
and proceeded to interview the peeping neighbors con-
cerning the family history of his victim. The next time
I call round her wav, no doubt the poor lady will be able
to show me skin-flint Leahy’s demand for a refund of
the whole £3 10s,—the blessing of the Philp Government,
showered on her down to date.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? It so, undsr the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, yon
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releasee
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for 1 CAN
CUKE YOU. 1 don’t say perhaps ; but 1 WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not hotv being cured,
bend at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and FILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
Ac. Price, in Great Britain, l/lsd. per box. Prepared bv
Al, BERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents; ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for Unregistered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyrightj.
HAS IT EVER PC-
CURRED TO YOU?
C
O
l
L
N
S
28 Renwick-street, Leichhardt,
Sydney, November Bth, 1902.
Dear Sirs: My eldest daughter
suffered very much while residing in
Central Queensland from general weakness.
I procured Scott’s Emulsion for her, and in a
few weeks she became quite strong and hearty
by its use. Mv younger daughter, Ruby,
seven years of age, suffered from bronchitis,
but, thanks to Scott’s Emulsion, she has quite
overcome the complaint and is equally well
and strong.
Yours faithfully,
(Signed) Edwin Collins.
Messrs. Scott & Bowne, Ltd.,
.483 Kent-street, Sydney.
HAS IT EVER OCCURRED TO
YOU? That all disease is at owner’s
risk ? Has is also occurred to you that there
is a way to avoid a disease—if that disease be
of a wasting character, weakness or bron-
chitis—a sure way, not a doubtful way?
That way is by taking Scott’s Eniu’sion.
Has not one who has seen the cure performed
just proved it to you ? It is not necessary to
tell you about bronchitis, nor is it necessary
to tell you about the weakness that some-
times attacks children. The whole thing that
you want to know is contained in the infor-
mation : What is the remedy ?
SCOTT'S EMULSION* That is the
all important factor. All that you need to
know, if weakness attack anyone of your
family, or if bronchitis should appear in
your home, is about Scott’s Emulsion. In
cases of bronchitis, Scott’s Emulsion acts
from the first dose; acts rapidly, surely,
steadily until the cure is reached. It has
cured,bronchitis in every land under the sun ;
it will do so in Australia. You have one
precaution only to take; and that is to see
that on the wrapper of the bottle there is a pic-
ture of a man carrying a big cod-fish ; if that
cod-fish is not there, you are not getting what
we promise you—a cure. Y"ou can obtain a
sample of Scott’s Emulsion and the choicest
children’s booklet of the year, “ A Bunch of
Roses, ’ beautifully printed in colours, by send-
ing sd. to Scott and Bowne, Ltd., 483 Kent
Street, Sydney, and mentioning this paper.
All chemists sell Scott’s Emulsion.
The Slippery Absentee.
The incurable weakness of Parliaments in not
saying what they mean has cost the S. A. Govern-
ment a considerable reduction of revenue, and
dealt a nasty blow to the advanced principles of
taxation. S. A., being then a progressive place, im-
posed a land-tax of in the £, in 1884. In 1894
it doubled the tax on all land over the value of
£5OOO in possession of one individual or cor-
poration, thus making the S.A. Company and
other big landholders take a share of the
country’s burdens; and, at the same time,
it increased the tax of every absentee owner
by 20 per cent. Thus the small absent
capitalist paid Id. plus one-fifth, and the big one
(and nearly all absentee owners are big ones) paid
a penny plus one-fifth of that. So the matter
stood till last session, when S.A. tried to do
something towards meeting its liabilities by
adding Jd. in the £ all round to the tax. Thus
the small resident person pays §d. in the
and fairness would seem to demand that the Fat
one should pay (as before) double, and, if an
absentee, one-fifth extra on his total. Neither
point, however, was expressed in last year’s Act,
and the former one has never been pressed, so that
Fatness carries only its extra |d. burden. Thus
whilst in 1894 the rates used to be -|d. on the
small man and Id. on the big one, they are
now fd. and l£d. So the big estate no longer
pays 100 per cent, extra, but only 67 per cent.
The absentee penalty, however, being a percentage
on the total payable, would seem, by all the prin-
ciples of common sense, to be automatically ad-
justible so as to rise or fall with the taxation
borne by the resident. But Parliament didn’t
say so, and the whole Supreme Court of S.A. has
just decided that it must go by what was said. Thus
the large absentee owner has to pay for this year
l|d. plus one-fifth of a penny in the £, whereas it
was certainly intended that he should pay l|d.
plus one-fifth of l|d. In the test case on which
the point was decided £35 of revenue and the
costs went in one pop. Probably the S.A. Legis-
lature will put the matter right during the present
session, but the absentee landlord gets distinctly
ahead —for one year, at all events.
Westralian Unionism.
“ J.E.W. ” whites in a doleful strain from the
West:—
“ R.M.’s” optimism (Bulletin, June 6) regarding the
Westralian Labor party’s prospects for the Federal
elections is hardly justified by facts. Unionism as a
political force has made no advance in the Golden State
since 1901; rather it h:.s gone backward. The miners,
who account for most of the Labor vote, have split into
two unions bitterly hostile to one another, and the
A.M.A., the younger of the twain (immeasurably the
stronger on the Golden Mile), is avowedly non-political in
character. Moreover, half the miners at Hannan’s are
not organised at all. These, with the rest of the
non-unionists, form the majority of the State’s
working population. They reckon they have had
no cause to admire the way the labor movement ha* been
run. The blatant individuals at the helm have been
engaged for the last 18 months in quarrelling among
themselves and setting the unions they misrepresent by
the ears till many ardent Laborites have become utterly
disgusted. The State Labor party, too, has been largely
a failure. Excepting Mulga Taylor, they ratted on the
railway men during the big strike of two years back, and
they have since been solid supporters of the finicking,
dilettante, mostly conservative Walter James. Now
for “R. M.’s ” boasts categorically. Mahon I
pass as being safe for Ooolgardie, but Fowler is a
long way from being the certainty “ R.M.” prophesies.
Perth is not a Labor seat, and Fowler triumphed by the
aid of the Foreign-trade majority and the weakness of
his opponent. He has not been an overwhelming success
in the Reps., and a moderately strongman—o. J. Moran,
for instance—would beat him handsomely. At Kalgoorlie
the Labor crowd will want a good man and complete har-
mony in its ranks in order to beat Kirwan, and it doesn’t
look as if it will have either. Certainly the calibre of the
people mentioned so far as probable candidates is such as
only to excite mirth. For the Senate the chances of
the Labor people’s returning even ope member don’t
appear too bright. De Largie, as a member of one of
the big contending unions, is looked at askance by a
good percentage of unionists, and his thoughtless asper-
sions on the crippled Moorhead are remembered against
him. He is not unlikely to be beaten in the Selection
ballot. The other probable Labor candidates are as hope-
less a crowd as Kirwan’s prospective opponents, and it
would appear that the Westralian Labor party exhausted
itself in Hugh Mahon, Pearce and Dalgleisii. The
mediocrity of the others is wearisome to contemplate. A
man like Watson or W. M. Hughes would be a godsend
to the movement, but there is no celestial visitant in
sight yet.
. .
Acting-Chief Justice Stephen, whose healthy
down on perjurers is commendable, has made a
back-door attack on a supposed member of the
tribe. A vvitness, the husband of a plaintiff,
made irreconcilable statements on oath about a
bill-of-sale. The Judge could have committed
him to stand his trial for perjury. That course,
however, entails trouble on the Judge, and calls
for the judgment of a jury, which often disagrees
with that of the Judge. The Acting-Chief Jus-
tice, therefore, without taking trouble or risking
a jury’s opinion, applied his authority as Presi-
dent of the Court and sent the presumed prevari-
cator to prison for three months for contempt.
The situation is not satisfactory. If, in the
Judge’s opinion, the witness committed perjury,
he ought to have been committed to stand his
trial for perjury, and the jury would have had its
say on the question. By calling supposed prevari-
cation contempt, and summarily dealing with it
as such, the legal procedure in respect to perjury
is set aside. Perjury is rampant, no doubt. But
every contradiction in evidence is not perjury.
Intermittent memory is a common complaint.
That is why a jury is needed to determine what
perjury in a particular case is: To allow a Judge
to call contradictions contempt, and under that
term to punish, solely at his own will, what he
regards, and says he regards, as perjury is a
serious innovation.
+
John Darling, S.A. Opposition-leader and more-
or-less real Premier, has an idea that, as Australian
State debts fall due, Britain should guarantee
the renewal loans, Australia agreeing to give
Britain in return a preferential tariff of 5 per
cent, besides £500,000 a year extra as a naval
contribution. This is the sort of especially
noxious idea that requires to be stamped flat.
Australia has already got a habit of leaning up
against anything it can get at, and to hire Britain
as a new financial leaning-post would about
destroy any little scrap of self-reliance that
remains. Further, it would give Britain a new
hold on us ; the Government that hacks our P/N
has a right to put the bailiff in, suspend our Con-
stitution, and collect our taxes, if it has to pay the
P/N for us. Further, if Britain guarantees our
debts as they fall due for renewal, and Australia
pays £500,000 extra subsidy in consideration
thereof, that means that, for many years, we will
be paying about 5 per cent, and from that down
to 2 per cent, for the use of Britain’s name, which
is a very high rate. It would be much cheaper to
start right here and now, and put the £500,000 a
year to a sinking-fund for the repayment of the
debt. All the financial dodges and side-steps on
earth aren’t equal to the simple device of just
paying the dashed old debt.
Maoriland’s multifarious anti - gambling
leagues have spasmodic fits of energy ; they do a
howl against the tote about once a year, and then
relapse into somnolence again. At the annual
meeting of the Christchurch branch (which has a
credit balance of 10s. 5d.) “Tommy’’ Taylor
lamented that the Anti-Tote Bill was always talked
out in Parliament, but he intended that there
should be a division next session, although he
declined to say how. As a logician, Taylor col-
lects the loaf. He said that a speculation in
wheat was not gambling, because the profit was
the result of forethought; but he denounced gold-
dredging specs., which also require forethought, in
scathing terms. Any chance spec, in which the
speaker is interested isn’t gambling, apparently.
OPEN SESAME.—Hunyadi Janos Water is
the “open sesame” of the human organism.
Speedy, sure, and gentle, it fulfills every indica-
tion in health and disease. It is a therapeutical
arsenal in itself. Indispensable to millions of
human beings all over the world.*
Mr. P. M. GREEN, Culbertson, Neb., writes:
“ During the THIRTY YEARS that I have been using
Jayne’s Expectorant, both I and other members of my
family have been cured by it of some VERY SEVERE
COEDS.”*
Sydney Telegraph did its friends con-
nected with the “great natural producing indus-
tries” a bad turn when it declared that the
railways were charging much more for carrying
papers, which still go at one-fourth ordinary
parcel rate, than for carrying milk. Not only, it
seems, is milk carried at a ridiculously low and
utterly unprofitable rate, but “empties” are
returned for nothing; and there is to be a row
over it in Parliament. It is simply another case
of the “natural” industries, whose barrackers
are always prating self-reliance, leaning up against
the State, and dipping a hand into the State’s
pocket for a huge subsidy. And the worst of it
is, the man who milks the cow doesn’t get the
subsidy. Even the man who owns the cow doesn’t
benefit largely. They get the skimmed milk ; the
rich landlord takes the cream.
HUMAN POISONS
Continuously being made in each of us! Their fatal nature l
Why they are made I The diseases they cause I How to
render them harmless 1 Their antidote 1
Life is maintained by a process of waste and renewal. It is as essential to life that the tissues of
the body should continuously die as it is that they should be continuously renewed. To the un-
initiated this may sound strange, but any doctor or scientific man will tell you that the tissues of the
body are in a constant state of decay, and that the decayed or dead matter must be removed, or it will
accumulate and cause disease or death.
THE KIDNEYS AS CLEANSERS.
It is the function of the kidneys to remove, in the form of uric acid and urea, a large proportion
of the waste matter caused by the decay of the tissues. It is the failure of the kidneys to efficiently
remove uric acid and urea which causes people to suffer from Rheumatism, Grout, Neuralgia,
Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Anaemia, Gravel, Stone and Bladder Troubles. The
most common indication that the kidneys are not doing their work properly is
PAIN IN THE BACK.
A much surer test as to whether the kidneys are in thorough working order is an examination of the
urine. If some urine passed the first thing in the morning is placed in a bottle or covered glass, and
is allowed to stand for twenty-four hours, and it is then cloudy, or there is a brick-dust like sediment in
it, or if particles float about in it, then you may be sure that the action of the kidneys is impeded by
weakness or disease, and no time must be lost in restoring them to effective vigour, or uric acid
1 oisoning in some of its many forms will be the result. When you suffer from Rheumatism, Gout,
Neuralgia, Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Anaemia, Gravel, Stone or Catarrh of the Bladder, you are
suffering from
URIC ACID POISONING.
But there is no reason why you should continue to suffer from any of these complaints. It is oniy
necessary to restore the kidneys to health, and all uric acid and other urinary poisons will be duly
expelled from the system in a natural manner, Since the discovery was made (about thirty years ago)
of the remarkable power possessed by
Warner’s Safe Cure
to cure all disorders of the kidneys and to restore to vigorous health those vital organs, any person
who now suffers from any form of disease caused by failure of the kidneys to efficiently perform their
office, suffers needlessly, because a course of Warner’s Safe Cure will speedily restore him or her to full
blooded health. Warner’s Safe Cure is an antidote to all poisons formed in the human body, owing
to incapable action of the kidneys or liver.
Mr. Murray L. Allen, of 4 Marsden Terrace, Clifford-street, Goulburn, writing on the last day of
the old yea.r, says : —“I have had a bad attack of inflammation of the kidneys and calculus (stone),
both of which yielded to the power of Warner’s Safe Cure.”
Remember that pains in the back, painful passing of mine, inflammation of the bladder, torpid
liver, cloudy urine, pains in the back of the head and neck, rheumatic pains, swellings of the body,
all are Nature’s means of indicating to you that your kidneys are not able to do their work properly ;
and also remember that Warner’s Safe Cure will speedily and permanently restore your lost health.
Warner’s Safe Pills are a gentle cathartic, and assist in accelerating the cure.
A treatise containing full particulars of Warner’s Safe Cure and the diseases it cures will be sent
post free on application to the Australasian Branch, H. H. Warner and Co. Ltd., Melbourne.
rpAL
All Photographers are Interested
In knowing that the New “ AUSTRAL ” DRY
PLATE responds to the severest tests, and is
pronounced by the leading men in the pro-
fession to be—“ Perfect,” “Equal to the
best imported,” “ Superior to many,” etc., etc.
The “ AUSTRAL ” is manufactured locally, is
always FRESH, CLEAN and BRILLIANT. Free
from spots and stains and cannot be made to fog.
Sydney.
Melbourne
Adelaide.
Brisbane.
Made in three speeds—ORDINARY, MEDIUM and SPECIAL RAPID,
and in all sizes from i=plate to 18x22.
The Baker & Bouse Proprietary Ltd.,
as*—. 375 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and BRISBANE.


POLITICAL
POINTS
Senator Pulsford recently evoked the in-
formation that out of 444 customs prosecutions in
the Commonwealth up to date, 210 of the swindles
have been in N.S.W.
In the N.S.W. Legislative Council, on
division, Mr. T. M. Slattery’s amendment on the
Address-in-Reply was supported by one member,
Mr. T. M. Slattery. Questionable if “Tom was
doing splendidly ” that time.
Melbourne Age now speaks dolefully of
the Irvine-Bent-Shiels Govt, as a worn-out and
paralysed organisation which has exhausted its
usefulness, and is too tired to call Parliament
together and get on with its work.
Up North, Philp and co. are working up
a £lO,OOO “Defence Fund” against the coming
Federal elections. What Fhilp and co. want to
defend they don’t say definitely ; but presumably
it’s the Kanaka and the customs swindle.
There was a saving of £lOOO in the cost of
Hansard in one year in S. A. as the result of the
cutting down of the membership of the two
Houses. And if the Council had been abolished
the saving would have been much greater.
London Daily News on the Irvine Strike
Bill:
Its terms remind one rather of some of the more
ferocious efforts of Continental reactionaries in our own
part of the world than of the usual attitude of Australian
authorities toward such questions.
N.S.W. Treasurer Waddell reckons that
the Sydney Freetrade daily newspapers have so
far had £50,000 in subsidies from the State—in
addition to a high protective tariff against Vic-
torian, Queensland, S.A., and other outside
papers.
George Reid’s latest Yes-No is that he is
opposed to the Naval Subsidy agreement, but is
going to vote for it. Also, Reid wants to know,
with great bitterness, why Judges of the Federal
High Court are not to enjoy pensions as State
Judges do, his own party, whose policy he is sup-
posed to direct, having voted against the pensions
in his absence, but presumably with his approval.
AN INHOSPITABLE COAST.
Why they are leaving! Some say because of the legislation for shorter hours and more pay.
We think it is because the leading features of the country are forbidding.
In the case of the Vondel, the Dutch vessel
that Premier Jenkins Iscariot lost his head over,
Chamberlain felicitously expressed a fact. “ Aus-
tralia is a federation, not a federal league,” wrote
Joseph, in snubbing the effort of Jenkins to assert
“State rights.”
The secretary of Sydney Trades and Labor
Council complains to the D.T. of the absence in
the local Arbitration Act of power to appoint, as
temporary members of the court, experts in special
trades. But clause 23 of the N.S.W. Act does
give that power.
Broken Hill is such a good place to get
out of just now that, as soon as the Arbitra-
tion Court had finished taking the evidence of the
important witnesses, it set out for Adelaide and a
bath, postponing counsels’ speeches until it could
get back to Sydney.
The Mullah Abdullah of Somaliland sent
an insolent message demanding to know what the
British wanted in his country .—Cablegram. And
quite a lot of people, when they wake and find a
burglar in the house, insolently ask him what he
wants. This world is full of insolent questions.
A man working on Wilcock’s Gladstone-
Rockhampton railway contract, giving evidence
in Rockhampton police-court, the other day, said :
“ I get 7d. a yard for cutting earth to build up
the centre of the railway, and the best men can
only shift six yards a day.” The sub-inspector of
police corroborated this statement. He said he
had made inquiries and had ascertained that men
employed on the railway works were only getting
3s. and 3s. 6d. a day !
Commonwealth Ministers are said to be
hatching a scheme for shifting the Federal capital
from Melbourne before the end of 1904. Knowing
that Parliament will refuse to vote large expendi-
ture, a proposal will be made to erect temporary
wooden buildings at an expense of less than
£20,000.
Premier Philp promised recently that no
more hawkers’ licenses should be issued to aliens.
Tnis was done, of course, at the request of a depu-
tation of Townsville Fat Men. But Philp and
co. profess to believe in egual rights—irrespective
of color. Why then this injurious differentiation,
as Spruce Myth would say ?
“ The leader of the Opposition (George
Reid) in the House of Representatives, after
severely criticising the Naval Subsidy Bill,
announced that he would vote for it.”—
The House of Reps, can always guess
How George’s vote will go—
For what he damns his vote is Yes ;
For what he praises, No.
The action of the N.S.W. Railway Com-
missioners in shutting off steam and putting a
small service of horses to the Manly trams should
bring down Owe’Sullivan’s head from the clouds.
At the tram employees’ banquet at Clontarf, at
the end of last year, he soaringly declared :
The Manly line would carry millions of people, and
most of the other lines being built would pay from the
jump. (Hear, hear.)
-The hduse and land agents of N.S.W.
Assembly are unanimous in their opposition to
the See Government on the issue of making the
daily newspapers pay a fair parcel rate for their
foods. Mr. Broughton, Mr. Slattery, and then
Ir. Willis have come forward as advocates of the
unjust concession to the newspaper proprietaries.
A house agent has naturally a good deal of sym-
pathy with the predatory press.
Sydney Labor Council has received a
straight challenge to declare its fiscal attitude,
the wire-netting workers having asked its assist-
ance to secure a 10 per cent, duty on wire-netting.
Foreign competition in the trade has reduced the
number of local employees by one-half, and their
wages from £3 to 30s. a week. The Bulletin
trusts the Council will decide sensibly. There
cannot be a fair-wage policy without Protection.
At Toowoomba (Q.) Quarter Sessions, re-
cently, two men were charged with robbery and
violence. The undefended prisoner was duly
found guilty, while his alleged mate in the crime,
who had legal advice and defence, was duly
acquitted. Cases of that description are very
frequently met with, and it goes to show more
than ever that a Crown that attacks an unarmed
prisoner with the best legal. weapons is a very
cowardly and objectionable Crown. Let it be
asked for the 946th time : When is the Law going
to equalise matters by appointing a public de-
fender as well as a public prosecutor ?
One of the jokes of the Owe’Sullivan
management of the State-owned Fitzroy Dock
(Sydney) is the habit of charging accident pay
against the job, however small, that the employee
was engaged upon, when the accident took place.
As a result, in one case, somebody was served
with a bill for £3 for repairs to a boat, and £l6
16s. accident pay to a man who fell down while
the job was in progress. The struggles to collect
the £l6 16s. were quite unavailing.
New motions, of which notice has been
given in the Australian Parliament: By Mr.
M'Millan, to amend the Customs Act of 1901 and
the Immigration Restriction Act (details not
given, but probably intended to make things
easier for the swindling importer and the colored
fellow subject). B.v Mr. Fowler, that the
Commonwealth should take over exclusive rights
of bank-note issue. By Mr. Chapman, that the
Commonwealth should take over the State rail-
ways and tramways.
A most unkind thing has been said by the
N.S.W. Public Works Committee to the See-
Owe’Sullivan Government. It has deliberately
dug up the old, villainous swindle whereby the
Federal customs duties on materials imported for the
construction of public works (works that are paid
for out of loans) are charged to loans, and then the
proceeds of these duties, when refunded by the
Australian Government, are put into ordinary
revenue. It calls on the State Government to
abandon this profitable swindle —this just when
the Government is much more anxious to find
new swindles than to give up old ones.
‘‘ E. S. S.”
writes:
A great many of
the Queenslanders
who were lured
across the seas by
the tempting offers
of the Canadian
Government, finding
the alleged land of
milk and honey
buried under several
feet of snow, and a
bleak and desolate
prospect every-
where, have been
convinced that there
are worse places
than “rotten
Queensland ” after
all, and are hurrying
back with depleted
purses and a more
optimistic view of
droughts. To these
misguided mortals
Australia, from cold,
bleak Canada, looked
like Heaven in com-
parison with what
Canada looked from
Australia a few
months ago. Canada
is becoming a great
manufacturingcoun-
try, but it is mostly
the fool - stranger
who goes on the land
there.
About an old
Bill:
Robert Stout, now
Maoriland’s Chief
Justice, probably has
a faint memory of a
Bill which bore a
family likeness to
Irvine’s infamous
travesty. It was
some twenty years
ago, and the M.L.
Legislative Council
was told that de-
vastating strikes
were going to hap-
pen. Promptly the “Threats and Molestations Bill"
was brought into that Chamber of Death; in an
off-hand way it was explained that the measure
was designed to advance the principles and prac-
tice of law-and-order, and it slithered through with-
out debate—the Council was a very dead-corpse
House in those days. Stout seems to have been caught
when he wasn’t looking ; anyway, he took charge of
“ Threats and Molestations ” in the House of Reps., as a
matter of form, and the Thing was introduced. But a
large and comparatively young man named Seddon, from
the West Coast, bawled at it so vigorously that for the
first time the Thing really got attention, and one or two
older members said it wasn’t what they had supposed.
By this time Stout had read it, and thought it over, and
he ended its career by moving that it be thudded under
the table. And it was.
Queensland income tax is administered
curiously. Wonderful how many wealthy people
contrived to show that they worked their proper-
ties at a loss, or at less than a profit of £lOO, in
1902. There is talk of grazing farmers worth
£lO,OOO or more, getting off with the payment of
10s. One of Queensland’s few wealthy men, a
man who derives not one penny of income from
personal exertion, but who allows his children
£lOOO a year each for pocket-money, is freely
mentioned as having escaped with a 10s. tax.
Gormly, M.L.A., has a motion to lay
before N.S.W. Assembly that all the money
obtained now by selling State lands (at £1 an
acre) should be used to buy back (at perhaps £2O
an acre) large estates which were formerly given
away, or else sold at 10s. or £1 an acre. But until
there is a graduated land-tax which smites big
estates so heavily as to make them impossible,
this resumption business leads to very little, It
is a struggle to bail out a leaky boat with a
funnel, and no one has even thought of corking
up one end of the funnel.
Arthur Rae writes
In your issue of Thursday (2/7/’O3) you state that I am
the Labor nominee for the Senate elections next Decem-
ber. Such is not the case. The last Labor League
Conference decided (hurriedly) to run three candidates
for the three Senate vacancies, leaving the P.L.L.
Executive to find the money and organise the fight. For
various reasons it was subsequently decided to run only
one Labor candidate, and the three men who had been
nominated (of whom I was one) withdrew their nomin-
ations. Fresh nominations for one candidate instead of
three have since been invited, but, as the nominations
have not yet closed, no one can predict whom the choice
will fall upon.
N S.W. Rep. Ewing on Kyabramapoo-
trism :
We should pay special attention to Kyabram, because
it is clear that she holds the master-key to proper
administration, which is competence combined with
economy, though unfortunately she holds it in a drunken
grasp. But, although her speech ma3’ be accentuated
with hiccoughs, which speak of a recent debauch, and
her breath redolent of beer, we should hear wnat she has
to say. Kyabram is entitled to speak on the subject of
political debauchery and repudiation, because she has
herself repudiated, and knows the horrors of the situa-
tion. She has sinned, but she is determined that no one
else shall do so.
One of Eden George’s bitterest complaints
against Premier See was that lie had been promised
a set of the N.S.W. Historical. Records, value£4o,
and had not received them. Premier See explained
that he had in the bookbinders’ hands a set, value
£2 12s. 6d., which he would forward to Mr.
George when bound. How Mr. George could
appraise the value of the Records at £4O Mr. See
didn’t know. Meanwhile, the public is pretty
tired of the ex-Government supporter who says
the Government promised him a pair of boots or
a gridiron, or something, and deceived him on the
matter.
The Victorian railway men are supposed
to suffer a percentage reduction on all wages over
£125 a year. But the Government deducts the per-
centage from all wages over £lO Bs. 4d. a month.
The month a railway man makes £lO Bs. 4d. he has
the percentage docked. The next month he may
be put off duty part of the time and only make
£5 —but the amount docked previous month isn’t
returned. Consequence is that though the deduc-
tion legally applies to wages of £125 a year it
illegally applies to wages much below that figure.
PULLED UP.
The recent ignoring (by the Vic. Minister of Public Works) of the minimum wage
in calling for tenders has been made the subject of a letter from the Commonwealth to
Mr. Bent.”—AGE.
He has promised not to do so any more.
The railway men submit; they haven’t money
enough to haul the mean-hog Government up in
the police-court.
“I do not think it possible,” reports the
Victorian Inspector-General of Works, “to
eliminate Government stroke on Government day-
works.” Perhaps the system does want altering.
This Inspector-General is paid by the day (or the
year—by time, anyhow), and so are all his officers;
and it seems that they don’t get satisfactory
results. Suppose, therefore, the Government tries
the contract system so far as the bosses are con-
cerned ? Here’s a job, estimated to cost £5OOO.
Suppose the Government called for tenders for
“bossing” it? It’s always said to be the work-
man who can’t be trusted to work by the day.
Why isn’t it just as possible that the fauJJ; lies
with the boss ?
In Westralia, in accordance with* the
principles of high finance, one public depart-
ment always pays another for services rendered.
It, balances in the end, going from one Govern-
ment pocket to another and back again, but it has
its risks. ' The other day it was discovered that
Railway Commissioner George, finding water
plentiful on the goldfields, had been buying soma
millions of gallons, from private sources, at 45.,
because his department thus saved Is. per thou-
sand on the ss. it would have had to pay
for water from the State’s great Coolgardie
Water Supply, which has cost the country nearly
three millions. Minister Rason, on finding
it out, sort of forgave George.for his “strict busi-
ness principles,” in buying in the cheapest market,
but, as every cent paid to outsiders is dead
loss to the Treasury, George was ordered not to do-
it again.
REWARD WITHDRAWN,
“Mr. Reid left Sydney for Melbourne in order to re-
turn to his Parliamentary duties.”— Item.
The lost dog recently advertised in The Bulletin
has returned to its rightful owner.
“Steele Rudd's” second book, “Our New
Selection ! ”—will be ready before Christmas.
Better than the first book, if possible; with many
illustrations.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian,
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage,
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee-
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance-
is solicited
! WE WILL GIVE CASH TO YOU
for any old Gold Watches, Breast Pins,
Chains, Kings, Lockets, Brooches, Diamonds,
Pearls, Sapphires or Rubies; in short, any old
Gold- Jewellery or Precious Stones, whether
broken or not. We will send you a liberal
money order the same day the goods are re-
ceived. If our offer is not acceptable your
articles will be returned immediately.
Pack your articles in cotton wadding or tissue
paper, in small box, write our name and address
plainly on package, and send by registered post,
and.we hold ourselves responsible. We refer you
to the London Bank of Australia, Ltd., Broken Hill.
SHAW & CO., Jewellers,
(Also at London.) BROKEN HILL.
N.B.—We sell lact. Gent’s Gold Alberts (double or
single) at 75 - per ounce—Cheapest in Australia.
GrO TO 33CELL-
IWOLANI) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real (rood stamps, send to
Fred. Hagci),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 E3izabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
AUSTRALIAN STAMPS
Bought, Sold & Exchanged.
Gibbons’ Philatelic Albums
and all requirements. Price lists gratis.
J. H. SMYTH & CO.,
88 XING ST., SYDNEY
“Don’t shout
1 hear you. 1 can hear now
as well as anybody.
• How>’ Oh some-
thingnew— Tho Wilson
Common-sense Bar-
Drum. I've a pair in my
ears now, you can’t see them ,
they're invisible. 1 wouldn't
know I bad them in myself,
v only that I hear all right.”
' The Wilson Ear-Drum is
really a substitute for the
parts of the
natural ear. Has no
wire. Invisible, easy to ad
just, comfortable " Totally
different from any other de-
vice. Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request
Ij. CHAUItBS, 329-831 Collins- Sf., Mela.
SPECTACLES
—FOR—
DEFECTIVE
VISION. ™
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
dress, with full in-
structions and Price List, our marvellously-accurate
and popular SELF SldlTf-MdAS PATENT.
By its use you can Test v ur own sight and de-
termine for yourself the style and quality of the
glasses you may need. Write for it to—
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
86 Ceorge-st., Sydney (opposite Strand Arcade).


PALING'S (Patented)
VICTOR PIANOS.
Victor Pianos are specially
made to our order, designed
and patented by us, Known as
Victor I, Vicftor 11, and
XSfye New VicJtor Upright
Grand (with 3 pedals).
These Pianos at the price are the
best value obtainable.
Vhe tone is full and rich, touch
excellent, handsome cases,
and durability guaranteed.
If you want a good grade Piano
at a moderate cost
BUY A VICTOR.
That's the Piano you want.
* * *
Old Pianos taKen in Exchange.
New Pianos Sold on Easy Terms.
Catalogues Free.
Ltd
Paling' (Q. Co
W
Brisbane
St
80
Queen
88
Violins, Banjos,
Guitars, Mandolins.
Our StocK of Violins is the
largest in these .States.
They are specially selected for
us by experts, as are also
strings and fittings.
We can supply you with a well
made Violin, case and bow
complete for a few shillings,
or sell you a high grade one
running into pounds.
Our Banjos, Guitars and Man-
dolins are imported direct
from the World’s leading
factories, and spot cash paid
for them. One reason we
can sell them so cheaply.
All goods guaranteed.
We Import Pianos, Organs and
all Musical Instruments.
H
(a
Co
Paling
Ltd
GEORGE
ST
SYDNEY
338
LIVER COMPLAINT, INDIGES-
TION and GENERAL
WEAKNESS
All Succumb to
VITADATIO
August 19,1901.
Mr. S. A. PALMER,
•v . Agent for Webber’s VITADATIO.
Dear Sir, —I wish to add my testimony to the value of
VITADATIO. For over five years I was a great sufferer
from Liver Complaint, Indigestion, and General Weak-
ness ; I was unable to follow my usual occupation, and
for three years had been under several medical men ; I
have also taken courses of almost all the well-known patent
medicines, without any beneficial results. Whilst living
at Maryborough, about two years ago, I heard of the
wonders being performed through the agency of VITA-
DATIO, and, after making enquiries, I decided to give it
a trial, which I did, with the result that at the present
time I am fully restored to health, and feel it my duty to
let others know what VITADATIO has done for me.
I will be glad to answer any enquiries about my case
personally or by letter which must have stamped
addressed envelope enclosed.
I remain yours gratefully,
WILLIAM STEWART DRUMMOND.
11 Earl-street, Carlton,
Late of Maryborough.
For further particulars ,
S. A. PALMER,
Head Office: Clarendon Street K,,
South Melbourne.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The price of medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle. }
MESSRS. ELLIOTT BROS., O’Connell-street, Sydney,
Sole Agents N.S.W.
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
THE
Australian Art Association
desires to notify Subscribers and the Public
generally that the OFFICIAL painting “The
Opening ot the Commonwealth Parliament,”
by TOM ROBERTS, which is to be presented
to the Nation, is being completed by the artist
at the Imperial Institute, London, where final
sittings are being obtained from the Prince
and Princess of Wales and Suite.
The, following extracts from correspondence
are published for general information :
From The Australian Art Association to the Rt.
Hon. Sir Edmund Barton, Prime Minister:
“ I enclose a pamphlet issued in connection
with the sale of reproductions of a black and
white drawing by Mr. Charles Nuttal, which it is
alleged has the official recognition of the mem-
bers of your Government. Will you be so good as
to inform me if the production referred to HAS
the official approval of your Ministers.”
Reply from the Prime Minister:
“Mr. 0. Nuttal’s picture of the ‘ Opening of
the Federal Parliament’ is NOT under the official
patronage of members of the Federal Government.”
NOTE— Hr. TOfl ROBERTS’ Picture will not
be finished until SEPTEMBER next. Reproduc-
tions will be obtainable EARLY NEXT YEAR.
Trass
Comfort
is only assured when trusses
are properly fitted. We sell
the finest trusses made and
have expert fitters on the
premises.
Elastic Trusses— Single, 155. ; Double, 20».
DENYER BROTHERS,
Medical Supply Depot, Surgical Instrument and
Truss Makers,
281 George Street (opp. Hunter-st.), Sydney.
And at Melbourne.
HOTEL DANIELL
(Late IHPERIAL),
Corner of GEORGE & ADELAIDE STS.,
BRISBANE,
“Your Money Back
If You Want 1t. ,,
A LTHOUGH the reader of this may be hundreds of
miles away, please believe we mean exactly what
we say. We are Tailors and Outfitters with a reputation
to lose, and permit nobody to say that CHARLES
GILBERT expects a customer to keep what doesn’t
please him. On these lines we have built one of the
largest tailoring trades in the Commonwealth, and if
you write for samples of New Winter Suitings (from
50s. Suit to Measure), self-measuring forms, and
send us a trial order, your dealings with us will be
exactly on this footing. You thus stand to lose nothing,
but we mean to gain your future business.
Queen Street, Brisbane (only).
Rescued from Drink
by a'new discovery, odorless and tasteless, which any lady
can give in tea, coffee or food. It does its work so silently
and surely that while the devoted wife, sister or daughter
looks on, the drunkard isreclaimed, even against his will
and without his knowledge and co-operation. Send name
and address to THE EUCRASY CO., 62 HUNTER ST.
SYDNEY, N.S.W., and they will send you booklet and
particulars free.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK:
Price, 4s. 6d.
-
-
-‘Y
i
i
.yy : v,'yV' •
s
'
FOR MEN
24/6
POST
AND
DUTY
FREE
Inapt to
Wnt Australia
DON’T
IMAGINE
THAT
GOOD
BOOTS
ARE
EXPENSIVE
BOOTS I
Men’s French Calf, to Button,
Pointed or Medium Toe, Fine Made-
to-Order Appearance, price, 23/6
THE BAME BOOT IN TAN AT THE SAME PRICE.
Post and Duty Free through the Commonwealth, 24/6, except Westralia.
Every pair of boots sold by us is thoroughly up-to-date in style as well as full of wear. You
may rely on first-class quality in return for a perfectly fair price. You will find all you
; can desire in this boot.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 ceokce st„ Sydney.


Banking. Public Companies, See.
Upon - all - Classes
Security.——.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EAST TERMS. _
WE
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
nxr.s/w.
(Ifont depiete I. Co., btd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74. CASTLEBEAGH ST., *7 A
1 SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
*—THIS^
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices • * 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J, F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Robert*
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruck Smith, Esq., M.H.R.
Resident Secretary : A. Boss Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,706,830.
Policies issued 91,305— assuring £27,614,218.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,981,398.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—eauitably distributed.
Head Office:
AlO At 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
the jjankuf north Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director—JAMES BUBNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... ... ... *700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250.900 ... £350,000
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMITED.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £456,927
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 176,239
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 58,000
£691,166
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Queensland Smelting Qompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
T3UYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
-D Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Alderahot, Queensland, the Branch
Office, 54 Market-street. Melbourne, or IRWIN HINDS,
Branch Manager, 6 Spring-street, Sydney.
The savings bank
HAS MONEY TO LEND in VICTORIA
at 41 per cent., in sums of £5OO to £15,000, on Town
Properties; and £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES
FOR FIVE YEARS, with option of paying off part
half-yearly.
FARMERS’ CREDIT FONCIER.
Loans from £5O to £2OOO at 4J per cent, for 31J years.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
29 Market-street, Melbourne.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M. L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Hon. John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar. J. J.ALLEN, General Manager for Australia
W 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BBANCH:
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 600,000
Total Capital
£2,500,000
The trustees, executors
AND
agency company limited,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) £10,494 16 9
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grioe, Esq.;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M L C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDIi. A. LANG, Assistant Manage*
JAMES MARTIN & CO.,
161 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY N.S.W.
IL
Si*
ACETYLENE GAS
MARTIN’S Reliable AUTOHATIC GENERATORS
iYI ar e in daily use throughout New South Wales, and
users everywhere speak of them in the highest te l ™®;
Manufactured from the best Galvanised Steel. Light
,our home, church, store, factory, or town with
Martin’s Acetylene Gas. Comprehensive Catalogues
and all other particulars can lie obtained from us.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUH at the BEST PRICES.
Shipping.
nxr. d. l.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Four-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-screw steamer.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
Interstate First Class Return Tickets are now available
for Return by the Steamers of the P. and 0., Orient
Pacific, or M.M. Co.’s.
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. STETTIN, sth AUGUST.
And Regularly Every 6 Weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoinif Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnaire, Best Accommodation, Excellent-
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOIIMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
WHITE STAR LINE
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
SUEVIC, to Sail on or about 17th JULY,
PERSIC, RUNIC, MEDIC, and AERIC
to follow.
FARES—Capetown .. .. £l6 16 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 27 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 33 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
Huddart, parker & (Jo’s [ine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOHAUT,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND POUTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Bates.
Oceanic Steamship Company,
A. and. A. LIINTE.
TWO G-RA.KTD EXCURSIONS.
YOSEMITE VALLEY and CALIFORNIA BIG TREES,
UP IN THE HEART OF THE SIERRA NEVADA MOUNTAINS.
Travellers of note who have visited Switzerland say Yosemite surpasses even the grandeur of the Alps.
£72 (including everything).
HOTEL DEL MONTE (monterey).
ALL-THE-YEAR-ROUND HEALTH AND PLEASURE RESORT.
£65 (including everything).
Through Passengers to London and American centres may participate in these excursions.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Bank of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGS STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. ...' .. 2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. ~ .. .. .. 1,300,000 0 0
Reserve Liability .. „ .. 2,000,000 0 0
Total 5,300,000 0 0
Directors:
Hon. Chas. K. Mackkllar, M.L.0., Presided':.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator James Thomas Walker.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.LC.
William Alfred Cotter, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors :
Harrington Palmer, Esq. Frederick W. Uther, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies, New Zealand
and Fiji ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
T.ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks; issues drafts, circular
notes arid letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or.
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
New Zealand Insurance Coy.
SHAREHOLDERS in the above Company are
hereby notified that a Dividend of 2s. per
share for the half-year ended May 31st. last is now
§avable at the Company’s Office, 81 Pitt-street,
ydney.
J. A. MINNETT, Manager.
HE
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
■how long standing. Are the same
r to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Wo-n months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free. -
Address—A. M. NASTj 145 Collins St., Melbourne,
64
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W_ C. ZELIDIR-lIDGKE & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
t onntry Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
I’ll Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under cover
> to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand.!
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
\
'J-iie Uesutt.
CRAIG &. AITKEIM. N.s. \V. Barber’s Supply
House. 680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYOWEY.
FOREIGN STAMPS.
suae
pHEAP SETS.—4O Japan, Is 6d ;
47 Spain, Is 6d ; 6 British
Guiana, 6(1 ; 8 Egypt, 6d ; 16 Heli-
goland, Is; 11 Canada, 6d : lfi
Roumania,<3d,(i United States War
ships, 3d ; 8 Java, 6d ; 5 Costa
Rica, 4d ; 6 Guatemala, 6d ; VI
Indian Telegraphs, 6d ; 20 Brazil,
Is ; 12 Cuba, 9d ; 11 Portugal, 6d.
New Catalogue of Stamps, &c., Gratis. Stamps purchased.
CHARLES DONNE, 34S Little Collins et., Melbourne.
A Policy for the Commonwealth:
A Handy Manual of Politics. By James
Edmond. Price, 6d. ; post free from The
Bulletin Office, 7d-
GANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
Grand Excursion to Canada
MOANA, AUGUST 10 y
The Fastest and Finest Steamer
on the Pacific.
An Opportunity to See the South Sea
Islands and the Rocky Mountains.
The Finest Scenery in the World.
Send for Illustrated Pamphlet, Furnished Free.
NEXT SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER—
Oct. 5, Nov. 2, Nov. 30.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
Unrivalled Position in LONDON
(England),
The Langham Hotel
PLACE^
And REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality.
riodern Appointments. Moderate Tariff.
“The Challenge”
Latest Scientific
Punching Machine.
—.—. ■
A new World’s Record of 12251b5. was established on
the above machine at the Royal Agricultural Society’s
Show, Sydney, 1903, by Mr. T. W. Aulsebrook, of Messrs.
Aulsebrook and Sons Ltd., the previous World's Record,
held by Mr. Robert Fitzsimmons, champion pugilist,
being 10851bs.
The “Challenge” is an Automatic Penny-in-the-Slot
Machine, and is especially suitable for Hotels, Billiard
and Refreshment Rooms, Tobacconist Shops, etc.
It is a gr: at attraction to any place, a first class money-
maker, never gets out of order, and requires no attention
whatever.
All other kinds of Automatic Slot Machines kept in
Stock. Illustrated Catalogue posted on application.
J. LANDES,
108 PITT ST., SYDNEY,
Sole A {tent for Austra'nsia.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK :
By Sixty Bulletin writers. Cloth, 300 pages ;
price, Is. 6d. From all BookseUe s, or the
Publishers, The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
214 George Street, Sydney, Australia.
„ Sapping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOE MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANOE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Rockton,
Friday, July 17.
S.S. Marloo,
Saturday, July 18
(Without Transhipment).
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Porta North to Calms
S.S. Allinga, July 17.
-S.S. Rockton, July 25.
S.S. Innamincka, August 1.
Best and Cheapest lloute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. 8. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
D AND COMPANY’S
1 * ROYAL MAIL STEAM BRB
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
. on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to oall at Brindisi.
FI’IfIST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B to £77
Ditto Ditto Return, £66 to £ll5
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by Orient-Pacific, Messageries
Mari times and N.D.L. Steamers having room.
/
A. GORDON WESCHE,
63 Pitt-street. Acting Agent.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with bha
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispntohed MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77.
including table wines. * ~
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers tor London and 'give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc. and also accompany them" to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
State Ports are available for return by P. and 0.,
Orient Pacific and N.D.L. steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices.
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
L. BRICARD, Acting Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY THE . .
“E. and A.” LINE.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Steamer. Tus Commander. Leave Sydney.
EASTERN . . 3600 Winthrop Ellis .. August 5
►AUSTRALIAN .. 3000 W. G. McArthur.. September 2
EMPIRE .. 14500 P. T. Helms ..September 30
"EASTERN . • '3600 Winthrop Ellis .. October 28
♦ Does not call at Port Darwin.
EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE,
rhe Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
itted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe via Canada,
U S. America, or the Trans-Siberian Railway.
Forhandbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.,
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-st., Sydney.
DR. J. DOLUS BROWNE’S
rHLOROPyNE.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyna
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COUPS,
ASTHMA, BHoYcEmS,
DIAKEHCEA, &C-. bear 3 °“
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
IHE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS at
Sfept. 28, 1895, says: s
« If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally usieinl, to the ejiOlustuii of all
others, I Should say Crlouodynk. 1 never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forma
its best recommendation.”
LADIES'
1 i . .... * •
HAIR
DRESSERS
CRAIG &
AITKEN.
Tel, 1198.
THE most charming and stylish
Transformations and semi-
Transformations you ever
saw from 21 - each. Switches of
hair from 5/6. Your own Comb-
ines made up into Switches at
2/6 per oz. Specific Lotion, an
unfailing remedy for falling hair
and eradicating dandruff, 3/6 per
bottle.
Supply stores wholesale, human
hair merchants, assistants en-
gaged and sent anywhere.
Mail orders receive special
attention.
Price Lists on application.
680-682 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
At Dawn and Dusk:
By Y. J. Daley. In handsome cloth,
with portrait. Price ss.


“ 0.” on Queensland politics :
There is some speculation in Queensland political circles,
as to what will happen to the Independent Opposition
party during the approaching Parliamentary session.
Now that 0. M. Jenkinson is back in the he will
probably make some effort to resuscitate the old “ third
party, which he led after the retirement of the late
\V. H. Groom. Anyhow, the Independent Opposition
consists of seven pledged members—Jenkinson, Blair,
Summerville, Fogarty, Cooper, Hodge, and Plunkett—a
factor of some importance in a House of distracted
Ministerialists and growling Laborites. The tendency
seems to lead to a combination of Labor, Independent
and malcontent Ministerialists. Labor-leader Browne,
ex-Labor-leader Kidson, Jenkinson and several ex-Minis-
terialists have expressed opinions favorable to such an
alliance, and if the Labor men will take the others in,
the chance is that Philp’s sun will go down in mud.
The idea of the State as something to
cadge from has just bubbled up again in Perth,
where the A.N.A. has applied for the free grant
of a valuable block of land, in order to erect a hall
in which to do its spouting and its mutual
greasing. Lands Minister Hopkins didn’t have a
block of land worth £lOOO or so to give away just
then, but he promised to “see what he could do
for the A.N.A., and communicate with it at a
later stage. ” And as he has also promised to do
what he can for some people who want to hold a
national show, and for the Dog and Poultry
Society, and the Civil Service Association, and a
fey friendly societies, it will probably be worth
some local member’s while to watch what Hopkins
does do in this matter of giving away large slices
of.public estate. In no eastern capital has the
State hung on to as much land as it already
requires for its own uses ; with the result that the
rent bills are already something enormous. And
Perth will go the same way if it doesn’t look out.
CANNOT SLEEP.
When you cannot sleep for Coughing, it is
hardly necessary that anyone should tell you that
you need a few doses of Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy to allay the irritation of the throat, and
make sleep possible. It always cures, and cures
quickly. Is. 6d. #
VISITORS TO MEI.BOUR.PiE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
rjIHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, J-hour
by tram. Billiards, etc.
Study Evenings
More know ledge AT HOME More Pay
Courses offered by mail:
Mechanical. Marine. CItII.
Electrical. Sanitary.
Stationary, Locomotive.
Telegraphy. Architecture.
Sheet Metal Work.
Blech. & Perspective Draw’s
American School
AT
Armour Inst.ofTechnology
Chicago, 111.
1 Write for Handbook.
160 VICKERY’S CHAHBERS,
BOX 629, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Mr. Andrew Carnegie says: “ The secret of
American industrial success is emphatically the
Application of brains and knowledge to work, even
in the smallest detail; and the influence of the
Correspondence Technical School in furthering
America’s advantages in this regard deserves
universal recognition.”
WOOLLEN UNDERWEAR
... 0F...
VERTEX CELLULAR
FABRIC
is the healthiest, most comfortable to even
the tenderest skin, and most hygienic of all
materials for Winter.
It is, in its construction, a copy of Nature, and
acts as a supplementary skin, regulating the heat of
the body, and allowing the exuded vapours and
deleterious gases to dissipate without hindrance.
*5. economical, most easily washed, and does
not felt up or thicken as a result of that operation.
Stocked in Under-garments of every kind for
Ladies and Gentlemen’s wear. Special garments
made to order. Fabric by the yard.
fr C® ll or write f or full Illustrated Price List—post
DAVIP BRANAM ft CO.,
73 & 75 King St>> Sydney.
Sole Agents for the Cellular Clothing Co. in N.S, W.
The Yic. Iceberg Government is evidently
bent on reducing the standard of education in the
State, and has quietly shut up many small schools
in localities that don’t count for muoh from the
“ reform ” voters’ point of view.
A NOVEL PRESENT.^-
ON receipt of P. 0.0. or M.O. for 5/- we will forward to
any address in Australia one of our Handsome
9ct. Gold-filled Round Wire Brooches, with
either Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, guaranteed
the same quality as brooch ; and without pendant, 3/6.
In 15ct. G.F. Twisted Wire, 8/6 ; without pendant. 6/6.
Illustrated Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully
addressed to R. SIMS, Gold Wire King;, Cole’s
Book Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
RfINZ JOSEF
the best natural
Aperient* wal
1
URfIHZ JOSEF
the best natural
Aperient* water.
RfINZ JOSEF
the best natural
Aperient* wah
?ir?3NZ JOSEF
the best natural
Aperienl* water.
A WINNER on Every Round.
J
c
»
m
A
GREAT
DEAL
of sat-
isfaction v
is derived
by using
• perfect
working
fountain
pen.
A
w#
|Uf>
satbfac-
tios to
«"T
u»«r et
Mabie, Todd 5 Bard,
London & Man.
Chester. Enr.
ft -
Sold by Stationers. Jewellers, and Importers.
NERVOUSNESS.
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS Of SELF
CURB, will forward the same, free of
charge, to anyone interested.
Address: A. MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Shooters obtain the most satisfactory results by using
NEW CLUB CARTRIDGES
mmmi*
mm
wssm
and U.M.C. AMMUNITION.
ORDER
AND ACCEPT NO SUBSTITUTE.
C. BRANDAiIER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals^
These series
of Pens neither
I scratch nor spurt
They glide over
the roughest
paper with the
ease of a soft
lead pencil.
Works : Birmingrham, England.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
WITH GREENER BOLT AS DRAWN, THE “ WARATAH,”
60/-
WITHOUT GREENER BOLT, THE “ WONGA,”
50/-
BAR LOOKS.
Left Barrel Fall Choice
Eight Barrel Cylinder Bore.
For accurate and close shooting this gun cannot be surpassed, made of Best
Materials, and equal in finish and workmanship to guns of three times the
price. Barrels are Browned Twist, carrying a high polish. BAR LOCKS, Treble
Bolt, half-pistol hand. Hammers are well down out of the line of sight. Vulcanite „
heel-plate on best selected polished walnut stock. Carriage paid to any Railway Station in N.S.W. F. 0.8. to
any other State. Send y’our P. 0.0. with orders to—
T. TOMBLESON, Manager. Sydney Small Arms Co. K^i.fsy'Sney;
Rifle on the Remington Principle*
Shoots 22 long, 22 short, and No. 1 bullet cap. Well sighted and rifled.
Kills at 300 yards. 1 Os. , carriage paid, to any Railway Station in N. S. W.
Bush Gun.
12 bore, breach loader, Schneider action, single barrel. 10s., post free,
to any Railway Station in N.S.W.
Revolvers. 3-20 and 3'Bo bore, Bs. to 325. 6d.
s’X’aonxraa'ar
T. TOMBLESON, Manager.
SMALL ARMS CO.,
57 P.O. Chambers, PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
™ E CENTURY THERMAL BATH CABINET
Is coal to A DOCTOR IN EVERY HOME.
THOUSANDS GLADLY TESTIFY TO THIS FACT!
Hot-air and Vapour Baths administered by this Cabinet are
a speedy cure for RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA, BRONCHITIS,
GOUT, LIVER and KIDNEY TROUBLES, INFLUENZA,
COLDS, FEVERS —in fact, there is no disease which can resist
the power of heat as applied by this Cabinet. 300,000 now
being used in Great Britain weekly.
PRICES, delivered, 30/- to 84
Write to-day for descriptive Booklet—FßEE.
Century Thermal Bath Cabinet Co. Ltd. (Dept. 8)
(Sole Agents Wanted for Sydney.)
ALEX. TROUP, Manager,
Royal Arcade, Elizabeth-st. Entrance, MELBOURNE.
DTROBERTS’
POOR MAN’S
. FRIEND
HAS STOOD THE TEST OF TIME.
In over ioo years’ world-wide use it has proved itself the best Heal-
ing Ointment extant. It is particularly recommended for the cure of
Ulcerated Legs, Piles, and all long standing and painful
wounds; also for Blotches on the Skin, Pimples Eczema, Cuts
Burns, Bruises, and all Skin Affections. Prices (in Enelandl 1/1 u’
2/9. 11/-, and 22/- pots. ' 1
Dr.ROBERTS’ALTERATIVE PILLS
Purify the Blood. Cure Skin Disease.
A Gentle Aperient and Perfect Liver Pill.
40 in a box, 1/1 3 quantities, 2/9.
Of all Drug Stores and Patent Medicine Vendors, and made only by—
BEACH & BARNICOTT, Ltd,, BRIDPORT, ENGLAND.
C. L. ROBERTS, *f.D.
Born 1766. Died 1234.
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
BY USING
&
ficy
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d., 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers—M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND.
Felton, Grimwade & Co
Melbourne;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
A WORD IN SEASON.
This is the time when Coughs and Colds are abundant and PNEUMONIA and
PLEURISY are about. If you have a dry, hacking cough, which if neglected
may be the Herald of Consumption, send at once for that great cure,
Fincham’s Pectoral “ Cough I Cure ” Syrup
a few doses of which will relieve the worst Cough or Cold afflicting man. In bottles
sent free from breakage to any address in Australia. Prices on Application!
Dr. Steel’s Celebrated Indigestion
Cure. —The enemy of Indigestion & Dyspepsia.
Dr. Hughes’ “ Pits Epilep.”— A certain
remedy for Epilepsy and Fits in all forms.
Wonderful cures are registered from its use.
Dr. Steel's Influenza Cure.— Sure relief
is given in a few hours in severe and serious cases
of influenza, &c. A few spoonfuls is sufficient.
Price 2s. and 2s. 6d.
Pincham’s “Pearline” Face Bleach.—
For beautifying the Skin and Complexion.
Makes the face, neck and hands as white as a
lily. Sure Cure for Blackheads, Pimples, and
Sallow Skin, &c.
Pyramid Pile Cure. —A certain remedy.
Fincham’s “ Gout and Rlieumatic
Cure.” —Takes certain effect in cases of Acute
Lumbago, Sciatica, Lame Back, Headache,
Shoulder and Muscular Pains.
Fincham’s May Blossom Herbal Liver
Tonic. —Made from original recipe of the late
Dr. Fortesque. Corrects all derangements of
the Liver, Bilious Headaches, Sourness of the
Stomach, Bad Breath, Lassitude, Despondency.
Fincham's Capaline. —A Nursery Hair-
Wash invaluable for Children’s Use. Destroys
Vermin speedily. No mother should be without
a bottle.
All these Invaluable Remedies will be mailed free on application to
C. P. FINCHAM, M.P.S.,
rjie iwl gmgQtore, 227 Elizabeth Street,
Hyde Park, SYDNEY.


SPORTING NOTIONS.
The Grand Nat. Steeplechase drew probably
the biggest winter crowd that Flemington has ever seen,
although Saturday was so cold that the horses hoofs
were clogged with ice. The day proved exceptionally
cold for punters, too. Grey horse Grafnell was thought
of by the crowd in general as a “ green ” four-year-old
that, previous to winning the Maiden Steeplechase a
week earlier, had jumped badly, and sometimes refused
to jump at all. Of all the horses in the race the grand
son of Grafton was the most expected to fall, and whilst
friends of the stable were backing him down to 12 to 1,
the unenlightened public put their money on a dozen
others—and lost it. Grafnell jumped faultlessly, won
easily, and put up a time record —6.3lJ—in doing it. He
is the third grey who has scored the big trick over the
big sticks, and the third winner of the Maiden to bring
off the double event.
Seeing that Grafnell was an undeniable race-
horse among ’chasers it is more than likely that even Sir
Harry with a “ stand up ” couldn’t have beaten the young
’un. Both of them 4-year-olds, they were weighted within
21bs. of one another, and the grey was the more clever
jumper, anyhow. Still, Scobie gave the favorite credit
for being able to get round the course, and it now remains
to be guessed whether the foolishness of putting a dazed
jockey upon the “ good thing ” was, or wasn’t, responsible
for i s utter failure. An hour before the field went out
for the Steeplechase jockey Sutherland had been carried
down the course in the ambulance waggon, stunned by a
fall from Irate in the Doutta Galla Hurdle Race. It
seemed out of the question that Sutherland could ride
Sir Harry for all he was worth in the next race, and the
word went round that Paddy Regan was to have the
mount. Nevertheless, Sutherland did ride Sir Harry.
His shaken nerves were said to be all right again, but the
result seemed to belie the supposition. Sir Harry, with the
resurrected jockey in the saddle, shaped unpromisingly
from the start, and at the fourth jump they came to grief.
Then the public, for the most part, pinned the remnants
of its hopes to Freedom, Error and Anchor. Anchor
never made a pretence of being able to get near tbe front,
and Error was clearly pumped half a mile from home,
but hardv little Freedom, the victor of 1901, humped his
burden in the van with the audacity of a light-weight.
Good old Freedom! Until they got right into the
straight the chestnut was holding his own with Grafnell.
The other grey horse, Burghos, had dashed up to the
pair and stayed with them for half a minute, then he
dropped back whilst Grafnell went ahead. Freedom was
beaten and the multitude lapsed into melancholy.
Scobie’s good things for the G.N. Steeplechase
are very untrustworthy. Last year, he had the first
favorite in Royal Mail, but the Mail fell, whereas his half-
trained stable companion, Kiota, surprised the trainer by
jumping safely. This year, Scobie reckoned Sir Harry an
expert fencer, but he repeated the Royal Mail disappoint-
ment.
* * * *
Though stable connections gathered a goodly
pile through Grafnell’s win of Grand National Steeple
(a prominent Sydney politician is said to have procured
the bulk of the coin), turf scribes, touts, racecourse
“guns” and the like wouldn’t have him as a probable
winner in such company. They all had his displays at
Caulfield and Williamstown in mind, for he shaped then
as if he had never seen a big fence in his life ; but in the
Maiden Steeple at Flemington Grafnell didn’t put a foot
wrong, and settled Wongleburnie, Killarney, and others
nicely. Said that Grafnell’s owner hesitated about
“ accepting” on Thursday last week, and wouldn’t have
done it had mt a prominent “book” prevailed upon
him. The horse’s success meant getting the bulk of noses
out of dire trouble, as everything thought to have a
chance was coupled in doubles with the winner of the
G.N. Hurdles apart from the money invested straight
out— particularly on the second nag, Freedom.
♦ » * *
Successful sire Grafton was much in evidence
Saturday. Three winners, Grafnell (G.N. Steeple) and
No Name and Famous (Jumpers’ Flat race and Flying
Stakes at Warwick Farm) are his get.
♦ * ♦ *
The 19 starters in Y.R.O. Grand National
Hurdles didn’t include one mare. Three were stallions
and the rest geldings.
* * * *
The advance of the ’Murkan jock. Yankee
rders have won the English Derby last three years :
Reiff on Volodyovski; Martin, on Ard Patrick; and Maher
on Rook Sand.
* * * *
Early morning watchers of the gallops at Rand-
wick last year, when hot favorite (Sir Harry) for last
Saturday’s G.N. Steeple was, being trained by his then
owner, Tom Lamond, dubbed the nag the “ ’bus-horse,”
because of his lumbering gait and clumsy appearance.
Lamond bought Sir Harry from Mr. H. 0. White for 40gs.
Present owner would want a heap more than that to part
with him.
* * * *
Speaks much for the quality of the compara-
tively small amount of lepping material N.S.W. owns,
when Sydney-trained nags win two successive Grand
National Steeples. Victoria has 20 ’chasers to the Corn-
stalk State’s 11. Twelve of the home cracks lined up,
while two came from N.S.W., and one each from Tassy
and S.A.
* * * *
V.R.C. Grand National meeting prize money
totalled £6625. Principal winning owners were T. Blunt
(Grafnell) £1652, J. N. M’Arthur (Marmont) £1575, J.
Scobie £737, and Rupert Clarke £5ll.
• * * •
The Miller stable scored its first win at the
meeting in the final event—the Footscray Steeplechase.
This'was the Miller consolation stakes, "and it introduced
an element of humor into a meeting remarkably free from
blood-curdling mishaps. The African (heavily backed)
and Emms ran for Albert Miller. When The African
waltzed along in front, his stable companion, in the rear,
came to grief, but the mare was immediately on her
legs again, and she proceeded to steeplechase on
her own. At first her intentions were strictly
honorable. The riderless mare jumped obstacle
after obstacle, gaining ground steadily, without get-
ting very near to her friend The African. Then
Emms made up her mind to win the race anyhow. She
ran round the jumps, sneaked to the fore, and led The
African to the winning-post—a good exercise gallop. The
black horse won by a head from Sweet Alice, who, by the
way, showed a vast improvement on her form of the pre-
vious Wednesday.
• • • •
How they do drop. Sensational winner (Ampier)
of A.J.O. Epsom Handicap, a y«ar or two since, was sold
in Melbourne a few days ago for £5O. The nag was
backed for a heap of money down to a short price and
was supposed to have gone wrong a day or two before
the race and his backers tried their best to unload.
Failing, they were compelled to hang on to their money
and win, in one or two instances, small fortunes.|
* • * •
If the mid-winter successes of a racing stable
were a reliable guide to its “ form ” in the coming Spring,
one could safely predict a great time for the Cup horses
that Scobie has in hand. Leaving the jumpers out of
consideration, the running of Fairy States at the
Flemington Grand National meeting goes to prove the
excellence of Scobie’s lot, seeing that he didn’t think the
gelding worth entering along with Emir, F.J.A., Free
States, Hauturier, Malster, Miltiades, Pliable, Sinnang,
United States, and Sweet Nell, who are all of them
engaged for both the big events. But the Fairy States
case is not the first instance of Scobie having trained an
angel unawares. He had no high opinion of Clean Sweep
a month before it took the Melbourne Cup, and it may
be that in not entering Fairy States for the principal
Spring handicaps he threw away his best chance of
winning the double. He never had the gelding fit till
quite lately. Last Spring and Summer Fairy States
passed for a third-rater with a turn of speed. In the
light of last week’s performances it stands revealed as
a good stayer. It might have got into both Cups at a
light weight.
* * * *
The V.R. 0. handicapper unconsciously ‘ ‘ tipped ”
the mare Carolina for next Caulfield Cup when he gave
her 7.7 for the Melbourne Cup, or 131 b. more than the
rival handicapper has given her for the Caulfield event.
One map was afraid that the aged mare, who has run.
only twice (unplaced) in five years, might be another
Revenue, whereas the other man reckoned her a hopeless
case. Carolina, by Trenton-Caroline, is in Leslie Mac-
donald’s stable, where the seldom seen Revenue and
Kinglike munch the corn of idleness.
* « * *
Rt racehorse nomenclature. Perhaps the hardest
name for the bookie to grapple with when calling the
odds belongs to a hurdle gee-gee in South Australia with
the awful name of Wakawhawhai. [Knew a horse called
Popocatepetl once.— Ed.]
* * • •
Dan O’Brien has great hopes of pocketing the
New Zealand Cup this year with Heroism, a N.S.W. bred
nag by Grafton out of a Carbine mare. So far, however,
the moke has done nothing out of the ordinary.
* * * •
M.L. ’chasers this season are below the calibre
of those seen out for some years past. Few of the 28
engaged in the C.J.C. G.N. Steeple are anything ap-
proaching first flighters. The G.N. Hurdles (35 entries),
however, includes some really good cattle.
* * * *
During the demolition of the fateful “Cathe-
dral ” wall at Flemington (Vic.), recently, workmen dis-
covered a snake in the fence, which was another and per-
haps the last kill that will be chronicled at that particular
spot.
* * * *
J. J. Miller’s Sporting Pamphlet for 1903 comes
as a reminder that the weights for the Cups are out, and
the names of the future winners with their performances
to date are included in the little pink-covered book afore-
said. Why the book should be called a Pamphlet is a
mystery which only Miller can explain, but by any name
it would be as valuable —or ruinous—to inquiring punters.
Also it is fully charged with sporting records, some of
which are rather amazing. For instance, an American
horse, named Heatherbloom, is credited with a high
jump of Bft. lin. at the Chicago Show last year. A speed
record for 10 furlongs was scored last year by an Australian
horse in England. Our old friend Australian Star covered
the distance in 2min. 2 l-ssec. on the Alexandra Park
course.
• • * *
“ J.Q.” : Charters Towers J ockey Club’s annual
meeting was a considerable success, although Ikey Mo.
was not even allowed to look over the fence. Though
the prize money was less, the tote tax greater, entries
and admission receipts less than last year, the club made
a larger profit, the amount being £9OO, as against
£669. Attendance-profit would probably have been
greater but that a cycle meeting clashed with the second
day’s racing. Still £3400 more went through the
machine than last year : biggest dividend was £8 9s. for
10s., and the average odds for 15 races of moderate and
small fields panned out 6 to 1 on winners.
* * * •
Crack nag Purser’s defeats at Warwick Farm,
Saturday, as well as at Hawkesbury a week before, and in
Melbourne two or three times recently (always carrying a
good load of coin), suggests that trainer Bill Kelso lacks
his dead dad’s astuteness, otherwise he’d give the horse
a spell (which is, apparently, badly wanted), and bring
the great miler out to sweep the boards at the weights
now being allotted.
* • * . *.
One time Kogarah (Sydney) owned Lieutenant,
now 12 years old, followed up recent successes by winning
Newmarket H’cap (5 fur.) at Ascot (V.) last week and
looks good for a few more successes yet—he got over the
ground in fast time of 1.5}.
• * * *
Imported champion pacer Almont, atop of bis
mile record set up two or three weeks ago, threw two
miles behind, at Ascot (Vic.) t’other day, in 4.23},
3 3-ssec. better than M.L. Ribbonwood’s figures for the
continent. Monday last, on same track, he tackled
world’s 3m. best (6.55}, owned by ’Murkan mare Nightin-
gale and accomplished 10 years ago), and, never breaking
once, reduced it by 5} seconds.
•*• * *
Lepper Comboyne’s quest for V.R.C. Maiden
’Chase during past five years is worth considering—he
has been after it four times. In 1899 he was of seven
starters, and among the four that fell. Next year saw
him an absentee, but in 1901 he lined up and again came
a cropper. Last year he got over all the leps and finished
fourth, hjit latest occasion saw the fence that brought him
down first time of trying for the coin prove disastrous
once more. The fact is unique. Crack M. Mooney, who
brought Grafnell home Saturday last, had the mount in
both first and last efforts.
* * • »
Westralia has gone stark staring mad over
horse-racing, and financial results of last month show
that the Boulder Club’s exchequer has been swelled by
about £l5OO ; and at Kalgoorlie, thanks to good manage-
ment and excellent weather, the local club raked in over
£3OOO as a result of a two-days’ meet. Still, sport on
goldfields was always of a fluctuating kind—either a
wild cat or a bonanza.
H. W. STEVENSON,
The Famous English Billiard Champion.
Photo, by C. J. Kirk, Surrey, England.
Up-country mare Faithful, by Metal from
Devotion, fairly spread-eag-led a field of 14 in Pace Welter
(1 mile) at Warwick Farm Saturday last. She is now
better than a possible Epsom Handicap winner. Prior to
reaching Randwick she gathered Scone Opening Handicap
(7.8), Stewards’ Mile (9.8), New England Opening Handi-
cap (lOst.) and Boxing Day Handicap (9 fur.) with 9.12.
Faithful only has 7.9 in the Epsom and 7.5 in the
Metropolitan.
• • • *
Methods of N.S.W. Trotting Club stewards are
peculiar. Meeting before last, deeming trotter Joe’s run-
ning suspicious, they “cautioned" connections of the
nag. At last meeting Joe won, whereupon the stewards
“ carpeted ” all concerned—horse included—and disquali-
fied the lot on a charge of inconsistent running. Joe was
in a peculiar position that day, for had he not won at all
the same punishment probably awaited him. Situation
is absurd. Offenders were acquitted when they should
have been “ dealt with,” and “ dealt with ” when quite
innocent.
* * * *
The utter uselessness of A.J.O. stipendiary
stewards was glaringly manifested at Warwick Farm
Saturday. Flying Stakes saw Lord Cardigan run up to
Famous in the straight and look sure to beat him had
Famous not bumped and forced t’other towards the rails.
The further they travelled the more was Lord Cardigan
crowded out until the two passed the post, up against the
judge’s box, locked together. Verdict was half a head
win for Famous. Owner of second nag protested and all
onlookers thought he would certainly score, as rules
provide that if one horse jostles another so as to prevent
him winning, whether intentionally or otherwise, the
offender shall be disqualified. Stewards, however, met
and dismissed the objection. Surely they’ve dug their
grave this time.
* * * *
Queensland Turf Club’s report reveals a short-
age of £1092, mainly attributable to increased exactions
of the Government which meant a drain of £l4ll over
and above that of the previous 12 months. Full tax on a
turnover of £83,148 for last year was £3949 Bs. 9d., as
against £2538 Os. 9d. on a turnover of £101,521105. in
1902. Prize money distributed for 20 days’ racing was
£14,460, while year before £15,179 went for 21 days’
racing.
* m m *
Two stake-winners at Belmore (Sydney) Cours-
ing meet, Saturday—lan Hamilton and Puppy Wrangler
—were thought so little of before opening of present
season that then owner gave former away, and latter was
sold cheap—a gift almost. lan Hamilton suffered from
some trouble which was thought incurable ; he is litter-
brother to crack Sydney hound Great Heart, runner-up
in Australian Waterloo Cup, t’other day.
* * * *
Crack English billiardist, H. W. Stevenson, in
Sydney present week, isn’t quite the dashing operator
heralded, and certainly hasn’t the go nor anything like
the presence of Roberts, who looked and acted the cham-
pion, and, though Stevenson is a remarkable player and
excels his comparatively huge countryman in many re-
spects, he doesn’t impress to the same'extent. Strangely
enough opening day of match against Memmott saw
Stevenson’s biggest breaks for afternoon and evening
sessions 197 each, and Memmott excelled himself—so
consistently did he score—making 117 once. Second day
brought perhaps one of the finest displays Sydney has
seen. At one stage Memmott (getting 1800 in 5000) had
gathered within three of what Stevenson accumulated,
but then latter let himself out, and, after making a run
of 123, fairly staggered onlookers with 416 in 26min.—the
result of nursery and drop cannons and hazards accom-
plished in masterful fashion. Next came 101, and the
afternoon’s play ended. At night the Englishman
carried an unfinished break to 97, and followed with 100,
120, 90 and 347, the first 200 of last-mentioned compila-
tion was put together in 12min. Memmott’s best efforts
were 99 and 78. Proceedings closed with Memmott 444
short. Stevenson’s night score, 833, was accomplished in
the exceptionally fast time of lh. 4min., and he averaged
69.5 for breaks. Final occurred Monday night. Steven-
son was consistent always, but Memmott fell off mate-
rially. Afternoon saw first-named bring an unfinished
break to 136, and, later, put 92 together, followed by 210
occupying 14min. Other runs were 109 and 71. Mem-
mott’s best effort was 52, and he made only 241 to the
visitor’s 835. At night, Stevenson didn’t trouble much ;
he had the game well in hand. His highest contribu-
tions were 144,142, 110 (continuation from 71 in after-
noon), 79 and 77. Memmott sprung a surprise by piling
up more than his opponent; he scored breaks of 157,152,
80, 73, 66, &e., playing an all-round game. Ultimately,
Stevenson won by 373.
* • * •
The Sydney Rowing Club, perhaps the most
conservative of the clubs in the N.S.W. Rowing Associa-
tion, has decided, by the narrowest of majorities in
general meeting, to instruct its delegates to support
the proposal for the inclusion of manual oarsmen in the
amateur definition. A proper representation on equal
terms with the ever-conquering Victorian Eight should
soon be an accomplished fact.
• * * *
“ Scrip ” : Met an elderly one-time athlete who
said he knew Bob Fitzsimmoiis’ people in the “ Old
Dart ” before Bob was born. Strongman was, singularly
enough, the maiden name of the pug.’s mother, and her
brother was champion wrestler of Truro, Cornwall. Fitz-
simmons pere was a policeman in the same town for over
25 years.
* * * *
“F.”: Sandowisra (B. 2/7/’O3) is all right—
with a competent instructor to put you on the right
track. Tried it on my own for a while; some benefit,
not , much. Went to a Sydney instructor; very great
benefit, an all-round increase of muscle, a much better
appetite and a much-needed addition to weight. The
system depends on the exercising in turn of special
muscles by special movements in special positions, and it
is almost impossible to learn these from any chart.
Combined N.S.W. Country, last week, demon-
strated that rural Rugby is particularly good class or that
Metropolitan players are short ot high-grade form, in
which case they’ll surely go under to the Maorilanders.
Up-country forwards fairly ran over the city pack, never
giving them a hope in the scrums, and all through ex-
hibited marked superiority. Visitors had too much
thew, were too husky and too well-conditioned, also they
were too doggedly determined and sustained in their
work, for the dandy players of the city.
• * * *
M.L. football team, en route Sydneywards,
went under at Wellington, Saturday, to 15 drawn from
that city, Manawatu and Wairarapa, by 14 to 5. Said
that game was a “ mere scramble played in drenching
rain and a sea of mud”; nevertheless result detracts
from high standing given the combination by M.L.
authorities and football soribes generally. Still ’tis
cabled that M.L. Rugby Union secretary insists the
team is the strongest all round that has ever left that
State. Hawke’s Bay crack, Carlson, is coming; he scales
14st., is a good wrestler and a more then ordinarily cap-
able exponent of field games, and looks the strong
athlete from neck to heel.
* * * *
Fifty-third Queensland-N.S.W. football match
(Saturday) attracted 10,000 onlookers to Sydney Agricul-
tural Society’s Grounds despite rainy weather. At
outset the ground was a sheet of water which soon
became slushy mud. Display wasn’t much better than
mediocre, for slipping and floundering rendered tactics
impossible and they were consequently not often
attempted. The ball got very greasy early and became
greasier the longer it was in play. Preponderance of
brawn was with N.S.W. whose reps, averaged in the
neighborhood of 13st. while visitors scaled all round about
2st. less. Operations of Queenslanders took the eye
as smarter, cleaner, and more reliable than that of the
opposing 15. Ruck play saw visitors all there and not
anything inferior; they also frequently bested the home
side for the ball. Queensland lacked the aid of Spragg,
Dixon and Gralton, who were left behind ; had that trio
been available things might have ended t’other
way about, for the Northerners stayed better and, during
concluding quarter, gave the Cornstalks a very sorry
time. N.S.W. led through greater part of the game,
though backs frequently mulled badly and forwards fell
far short of expectations. Match terminated 11 to 6
against Queensland. Evans, captain of the defeated
team, played brilliantly. One-handed St. John took the
ball with wonderful dexterity and accuracy, and his
kicking and tackling rarely missed. Three-quarters
White, Wickham, Oxenham and Putter, and forwards H.
Judd and “ Paddy ” Carew were conspicuously good for
winners. Queensland or N.S.W. combinations of last
year would have fairly laid over Saturday’s victors.
* » * *
Somebody lias taken the trouble to tot up
money given for bike races in Victoria during past season.
Sum approximates £6600 as against £9O less previous
year.
* * * *
Manner in which ancient negro Starlight made
an exhibition of Victorian crack middleweight Jim
Higgins in Melbourne recently, demonstrated how boxing
has declined. The lank-limbed black was never a
champion in his best days, but, humping the weight of half-
a-century,and with hardly any preparation, easily excelled
his youthful opponent, getting upper-cuts, swings, and
hooks home at will almost; he had Higgins bleeding
from the nose and lips early, and brought a stock of blows
into service that fairly overwhelmed and bewildered the
youngster. By-and-bye nature deserted the colored
man and then the pair sprawled often, for Higgins’
strength had petered out also, though he recovered
quickly. First one and then t’other was down, then
they w'ere on the floor together. Time for the twelfth
round saw Starlight too exhausted to go on, and Higgins
got all the money but none of the kudos.
• * * *
Arthur Cripps (holder) and “ Soldier ” Thomp-
son (ex-holder) of Australasian middleweight pug supre-
macy, had another rousing tussle for the title and the big
end of £2OO at Sydney National S.C. last week, and
Cripps won, but not near so easily as previously. The
fourth round was the “ Soldier’s ” from end to end ; he had
Cripps very mixed through losing his head as the result
of being sent to the boards thrice, once the effect of a
'rastle throw (the “garrote”), unintentional, appar-
ently, and consequently overlooked by the referee.
Cripps played “ lead ” for several rounds in a disrespect-
ful manner, and Thompson scored well in consequence.
Subsequently, Thompson was never in it, though all
through he displayed remarkable grit and stamina, and
took his thumping manfully. The first round once looked
as if ’twould be the last, for a clever baulk brought
Thompson over, and a right chop On the chin made him
sag at the knees and rock in his tracks ; then he clinched
and scuffled the 3mins. through. “Corners” saved him.
The 17th brought the end. Cripps landed right and left
on either side of the now very weak Thompson’s chin,
and then flung him from him, an inert mass, to the
boards. The crowd w'aited till Thompson recovered, and
cheered his spunk again and again ; he deserved to win,
but Cripps was too tough-hided, too strong, and some-
what too clever.
(Continued on page 29.)
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SCRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath, Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair,
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., UMITED, SYDNEY,
Growing 1 Old
1
ought not to mean growing weak and feeble. It
does not mean weakness or feebleness for those
who eat with good appetite and sound digestion.
It is of the utmost importance that old people
should retain the power to digest and assimilate
food, which is the sole source of physical strength.
When age brings feebleness, it is generally
because of the failure to assimilate the nutrition
contained in food. The Rev. T. B. Swift, who
for many years has been a preacher of the gospel
in Alexandra, Vic., tells of the benefit he has
derived from taking Dr.' Morse’s Indian Root
Pills. We use his own words:—“l have been a
preacher of the gospel for fifty-two years; am
now in my eighty-first year. I suffered for a long
time from costiveness, and consequent indigestion.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills were brought under
my notice some two years ago. I took one pill
every evening, and soon under that method my
costiveness, and indigestion were relieved. They
assist nature in the discharge of all her functions,
increase theappetite, produce sound sleep, and give
elasticity of spirits. I always preach three times
on the Sundays, and drive long distances to my
appointments. I enjoy life and the Lord’s work
to which He called me more than fifty years ago.”
We commend the statements in this letter as being
worthy of the fullest confidence. Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills are a perfect and positive cure
for all diseases arising from a disordered condition
of the stomach, liver and kidneys. Packed in
amber bottles and the full name blown thereon.
ACCEPT NO SUBSTITUTES.*
RESCH'S SELECT STOCK ALE ... LAGER
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives. BREWERY and OFFICES • DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.


ESTABLISHED 1847,
Allcock's
POROUS
PLASTERS
Are a universal remedy for Pains in the Back (so frequent in the case of women).
They give instantaneous relief, Wherever there is pain apply a plaster.
1
For Pains in the region ot the
Kidneys, or for a Weak Back,
the piaster should be applied
shown above. Wherever
there is pain apply Allcock’s
Plaster.
Rheumatism,
Colds, Coughs,
Bronchitis,
Weak Chest,
Weak Back,
Lumbago,
Sciatica, etc., etc.
Allcock's Plasters are
superior to all other
Plasters*
For fiheumfl-
tlsm, or Pains
In Shoulders,
Elbows, or else-
where, or for
Sprains, Stiff-
ness, ""etc., and for Aching
Feet, cut plaster size and shape
required and apply to
affected as shown above.
The "MASSEY” Road Racers-
is proving in every State, as well as New Zealand, by its numerous successes,
that we have nob improperly described it as the finest model ever seen in
Australia; and we have no doubt whatever that it would prove a veritable
mascotte to those who are looking for something to win on. Our advice is—
TRY A “HASSEY”
at least, call and examine it before you decide.
CANADA CYCLE & nOTOR CO., Ltd.,
Branches In Every State. 357 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE CHARMS ”OF VARIETY.
AN IMMENSE ASSORTMENT
TO SELECT FROM.
A
rs
REPAIRS
a SPECIALITY.
ALL COODS
POST FREE.
Please send for
Illustrated Lists.
Any Charm with
Cold Bead Pin &
Chain, 3/- extra.
Silver Gilt Letter
Charm, 6/6
9ct. Gold do., 15/6
Post Card, Silver
Gilt, 5/6
9ct. Gold do., 10/6
Solid Gold Jackasa
Charm,
9ct., 8/6: 15ct., 10/6
Solid Gold Kangaroo
Charm, 9ct. 10/6,15ct. 16/6
Others from 4/6
Solid Gold Emu Charm
9cfc. Gold, 6/6, 12/6
15ct. Gold, 17/6, 20/-
Solid Gold
Spoon
Charm, 4/-
THE GOLDSMITHS AND SILVERSMITHS ALLIANCE, LTD.
Jewellers, Opticians, Watchmakers, 90 KING ST., SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIAN ROADS are strewn with the wrecks of badly-constructed bicycles, the atmosphere is
clouded with imprecations of all the cheap and nasty lies that masquerade as Cheap Jiggers.
Cheapness Divorced *from Quality is apt to prove very expensive. Make assurance
doubly sure.
RED BIRD BICYCLES
are the combination of all the high-grade qualities that spell Comfort and Safety for You>
Are you riding for pleasure? '
Branches in every State. GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 Xing' St., Sydney.
A letter from Broken Hill, where the
water-famine is
Everybody said there was no need for immediate alarm.
Some said a month’s supply above the silt, others six
weeks’. The lowest estimate, the local paper’s, was a fort-
night. On the fourth morning went to the bath-room as
usual, got into the altogether, had five minutes’ Sandow,
turned the tap, waited, and said something; then, as
nothing but an answering gurgle came out of the shower,
had to resort to the good old-daj's’ system of dry-blowing.
And as we dry-blowed that morning we sadly summed
up what it all meant. We could hear the slow thud-
thud of the mills still, but we knew that inside
24 hours they must stop and our five or six
thousand men be idle. Yet even now, after several
days of it, we don’t realise what it all means, or may
mean. So far we live in hope of something turning up;
Broken Hill has infinite belief in its luck. The weather
has helped us, no doubt. Believe in M’Oarthy, the rain-
maker ? Well, none of us like to say we don’t. When we
find ourselves coming to the conclusion that it is rot, we
pull ourselves up with a jerk. It might, we tell our-
selves, be just on the point of raining—it might take only
just a very little kick to turn the scale in our favor, and
if Mac. can’t do much, he may at least be able to supply
that small kick. So we hope on, because for days past it
has looked, and still looks, as though it might rain if it
had ever so little help. Meantime the mines are doing a
little to keep the pot boiling. Not only Broken Hill, but
S.A., has been swept of tinsmiths to make condensing
plant for the Big Mine. The Trades Hall is being used as
a ration-issuing depot. The coupon system of strike days
has been revived. Necessaries of life are being bought on
a large scale ; the State issues a coupon, and the holder
can draw on these stores to the face value of the coupon.
Later on, no doubt, when the system is better developed,
a certain quantity of labor will be required in return for
the coupon ; that will suit Broken Hill better, for these
are not the sort of men who ought to be driven to accept
charity.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen., free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS BRISBANE.
FOR NOVEL, CHEAP AND INTERESTING
PRESENTS
Toys, Puzzles, Games,
Musical Instruments,.
Curiosities that cannot ___ JJ PTITTC
be procured elsewhere Ull U. \JT XJL X U
BEND FOR OUR
Hundred Page Illustrated Catalogue,
We will post it FREE.
The Union Mfg. & Agency Co.
359 and 361 Collins Street, Melbourne.
IT’S UMSIGHTLY
THE ELECTRICON
RESTORES LOST HEARING.
A Nq w Scientific Discovery, worn for two or three holira
narly, anyone can wear it. Book tliat tells all Posted Free.
L. R. Vernon Coy., 60-64 Hunter St., Sydney
SHARPS HOOTING
For Sport and War.
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARK!
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/- nett.;
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published,
IF you wish to get good work and value
you should purchase W. W. GREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
(Greener’s Representative).
'TjlO'R't'he person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
-ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That ds “Ellis’ King: Street Coffee Palace,’’
•situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
'Office. Proprietor — GEO. W. ELLIS.
HAND-IN-HAND
forEICHTYYEARS
Williams'
Barbers' Bar,
WILLIAMS' Traveller's Shaving Stick*
You may worry thru a face
scrape on most “Any Old
Soap.” To enjoy the Luxury
of a Perfect Shave you must
use Williams’.
If youdoubt it, send a penny
stamp for Williams’ Changin''
Face Puzzle. Tells you whyt
J. B. WILLIAMS CO:, Glas-
tonbury, Conn., U.S.A. Also
232 Clarence Street, Sydney.
w
Victoria is an allegedly Christian State,
run by the Irvine-Bent-Shiels Government—a
monkey-on-a-stick combination, manipulated by
the Kyabramic crowd of agricultural sweaters,
who, in the name of economy, reduce the railways
to wreck; reduce the old age pension dole below
the barest sustenance level, and cut down the
hospital subsidy. And this is from a Melbourne
paper:
An old man named Thomas Orowley was found in a
pitable condition in a house in St. Hilda yesterday. The
police removed him to the Melbourne Hospital, where he
was found suffering from acute rheumatism. Questioned
as to his age, Crowley.said cheerfully, “I don’t know.
Put me down as 60 or 70 or so. That’ll be near enough for
me.” There were no beds available, and, considering the
patient’s state, there was no alternative but to take him to
the gaol hospital. Crowley was accordingly lifted back to
the cab, and was just about to start for the gaol, when a
breathless attendant ran out of a distant ward, signalling
violently. The cab was stopped, and the attendant
approached. “There’s room,” he announced, “ a man’s
just, died ! ” Crowley’s face lighted up. “ I’m in luck,” he
said, adding reflectively, “ but what about the other
man ? ”
An interesting cullud genelman, calling
himself Clance Smith, has fallen into the hands of
the Melbourne police, on a charge of uttering a
bogus cheque for £167. Clance Smith appears to
be a darkie person of bright enterprise but
neglected education. He lately came to Mel-
bourne from S’Africa accompanied by another
young man (white), who gave him a few pounds to
put into the cattle shipping business. The
ingenious Clance had drafted sundry circulars and
testimonials for himself and the new “firm,” one
document being intended
to notirfle the Stud Farmers of Australasia that Vetrinary
Surgeons Smith and Lowe were returning to the coloneys
off Australia as stud farmers South Africa, arriving at
Melbourne on ore about the end of June.
Also, the “ vetrinary cattle shipper” prepared a
testimonial from “the M.R.Y. Surgeons College,
Melbourne, to our brother M.R.V.S. Clance
Smith,” and a letter from an omnibus company
manager, who had
rftuch onner in reciomending Mr. Clance Smith, veterinary
surgeon, to any colonys, inasmuch as he was skilful, and
very keen in detacking disease among animals.
These can be regarded as humorous inventions,
but there is another document, which amounts to
something like blasphemy, signed “Colonel
Hutton, on behalf of officers and men.” It
expresses the keen regret of Hutton and his com-
rades in arms at parting with their well-beloved
vet. The cullured pussen who could thus bracket
Hutton and his men together, and take their
united names in vain, seems to deserve condign
punishment.
DON’T FOOL WITH IT.
It will not do to fool with a bad cold. No one
can tell what the end will be. Pneumonia,
catarrh, chronic bronchitis, and consumption in-
variably result from a neglected cold. As a
medicine for the cure of colds, coughs and in-
fluenza, nothing can compare with Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy. It always cures, and cures
quickly. Is. 6d. #
The latest news of the “ Flitterers,” the
Bendigo apostles of the alleged new religion, is
that they have disbanded in New Guinea, the
gospel having proved inadequate to the needs of
the time. “ Some of the missioners are returning
homewards, but no news is obtainable of the
whereabouts of the gentleman who was treasurer
as well as leader of the band.”
If the man on the Land wishes to remain
there in peace, he should employ W. N. Willis,
Land Agent, 21 Bligh-street, as his Agent. No
results, no payments.*
At Adelaide, last week, there died George
William de la Poer Beresford, in his 80th year.
He was appointed clerk of the S.A. Assembly at
the initiation of Responsible Government; and
held the office for 30 years. He was connected
with the Marquis of Waterford’s family. »That
family has been on several occasions represented
in Australia. Years ago, one member of it? used
to lean up against the Bull and Mouth Hotel,
Bourke-street, Melbourne. He was a remittance
man, so long as he remained in Australia. Very
wisely, he always leaned against the one old pub.,
lived and drank there, cashed his draft there, and
was looked after like a dissipated younger son,
whereas the remittance man of many pubs has
no standing, and is occasionally run-in. Another
member of the Waterford family was buried, years
ago, in the old Sandhills Cemetery, Sydney.
“ Such is Life 1” by Tom Collins. Ready Ist.
August. Price 4s. 6d. Orders sent to The
Bulletin will be posted immediately on publica-
tion.
Cabled that “(jinger” Clarke, who
was Minister for Justice in Parkes’ last Cabinet
save one, has died in S’Africa. It was an extra-
ordinarily mixed crowd that the old man got
together that time—Salomons and Clarke, G. B.
Simpson and Abigail, Tommy Garrett and Pa
Brunker, B. R. Wise and John Sutherland, W. J.
(“Water Jug”) Foster (afterwards Justice)
and C. J. (Public-house) Roberts. Clarke
had to act chiefly as a Whip Parkes
kept him trotting round the country, explain?
ing what a great man Parkes was. In the
House the mo3t famous thing he ever did was
to have the beginning of a “ scrap ” with vitriolic
John M'Elhone. The contrast with the bigger
men with whom he was associated killed him poli-
tically ; Orange never returned him again, and he
went to England as managing director of the
Standard “Bank.” It was James Torpy, who
died only a few days ago, that won his seat.
Patents fob Inventions. — Arthur Griffith
and Allen, International Patent Agents and Con-
sulting Engineers, University Chambers, Phillip-
street, Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks,j Copyright
throughout the world..
Who remembers R. Burdett-Smith,
C.M.G., “Cupid” Smith, as he was known!
Somebody, evidently, judging by the “In
Memoriam” notice which some faithful rela-
tives insert in the daily papers. Good “fat”
notices they are too, bringing joy to the Counter
Clerk’s soul and containing much important
information. The last one, for instance, date
June 2nd:
Burdett-Smith.—ln memoriam of the Honorable R
Burdett-Smith, 0.M.G., M.L.0., who died at his resid-
ence, 203 Macquarie-street, Sydney (in the very prime
of life), July 2nd, 1895. Universally esteemed, and
deeply lamented by troops of friends in England and the
colonies. Extract from letter of an ex-Governor of New
South Wales :—“His loss is a great one to the colony.
He was a true patriot, and his name will be handed down
to future generations in the colony as a pure-minded,
eloquent, and able statesman. London, April 23rd,
1897.”
But why is no mention made of that never-to-be-
forgotten day when “Cupid" marched so nobly
down King-street, Sydney, holding a 275. 6d.
umbrella over Alfred, Duke of Edinburgh ’
n
To
Vehicle
Owners
n
tyo* K«uy
There’s No Comparison
between vehicles fitted with the popular
Dunlop-Kelly
Solid Rubber
Carriage Tyre
*nd one fitted with Ordinary Iron Tyree—the former glides along without nolso and
vibration, instead of the usual rattling and vibration associated with iron tyres.
IP YOU WANT COMFORT whilst driving, a postcard to us will bring in return our
Illustrated Catalogue and Price List, which you will find of interest.
Sole Australasian Agents—
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre 00. of Australasia Ltd.
108 Flinders Street, Melbourne,
And at Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, KJS.
N.S. W. DEPOT:
150 Clarence Street, Sydney.


r
K
X
P-’w.,. O
“ J&suk- jtlcaAwnfc”
“(jcvtib & &&£ man! s7tv
@Qc(c y li£ ~*&-**P*P , H
“The Lancet”
says:
44 We found that OGDEN'S GUINEA
GOLD CIGARETTES were composed
of light Virginia leaf and were quite
free from objectionable flavoring
materials/'
British-American Tobacco Co*, Ltd*
(Ogden Branch),
45 York Street, Sydney*
Auckland (M.L.) has got all sorts of ideas
into its head since Kipling called it “ Last, lone-
liest, loveliest, exquisite, apart. ” For a long time i t
has considered that the rest of Maoriland was con-
structed solely in order that it might have some-
thing to sit on the end of. Just now, when the
rest of the State is taking a more or less intelli-
gent interest in the doings of the world, Auckland
is watching the earth solemnly revolving around
a dock that it built at great expense. It is at
present trying to get a handful of the £20,000, that
is to be spent on patching up some of the rotten
bulwarks that the Motherland has left in these
seas, expended at its dock in order to rub some of
the desperate loneliness off it. Auckland is
like the absurd, person who bought a fine gold watch
and then invested in a suit of fine clothes in order
to let the watch feel at home. Then this man
went and stayed at a swell hotel, and bought a
motor-car so as not to have any incongruous spots
on the premises. Then he found that he would
have to let the motor-car on-hire in order to avoid
insolvency. Similarly Auckland first built a dock
that it didn’t want, in order to prove its supe-
riority, and then it went and spent a whole lot of
money on an; Admiralty House that no one will
live in, so that the Admiral who didn’t come
might stay there while his ship which didn’t
arrive was being repaired in? the dock that wasn’t
wanted. If hard times hadn’t loomed up roun
the corner Auckland was quite prepared to add a
few Pyramids and things, and cherish them as
ornaments. But hard times have loomed up with
a great loom, and at present Auckland is. concen-
trating its intellect on the necessity of getting
bent warships to come and get mended, and in
advertising for lodgers for its Admiralty House.
Unusually sensible remark in Sydney
Telegraph :
We are not going to scare over the alleged migration
of capital from any country. We have heard about it
too often. Never in the memory of the oldest in-
habitant has any rational legislative proposal been made
in this State without capital girding up its fat loins and
threatening to leave by the next boat.
It should do the Telegraph editor good to take
that home and sleep on it.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.
There is considerable barney up North,
among the people who love the Kanaka, over the
redistribution of Federal districts. With the
help of the Townsville and district vote they
thought they ought to be able to win Herbert
from Bamford, and Kennedy from M‘Donald.
But the Townsville anti-Labor vote will be coun-
terbalanced by the strong Labor vote at Charters
Towers, the two centres being now included in
Kennedy; while a State Labor electorate or two
have been tacked on to make up Herbert’s neces-
sary strength.
BABY’S COUGH MUST NEVER LINGER,
Nothing is more distressing than to see a help-
less little infant suffering with a cough, and to be
fearful of using a remedy which may contain
some harmful ingredient. The makers of
Chamberlain's Cough Remedy positively guar-
antee that this preparation does not contain opium
in any form, or any other harmful substance.
Mothers may confidently give this remedy to their
little ones. It gives prompt relief and is perfectly
safe. It always cures, and cures quickly. Is. 6d.
FREE! FREE•
\
\
\
Cut this out and send it to us, and we will
send you free, postage prepaid, in plain wrapper,
a copy of the New Edition of our splendid, in-
valuable and standard illustrated medical work,
“Electro Therapeutics,” which acknowledged
medical treatise should be read by every adult.
The Twentieth Century Belt.
Oiir Improved Belt is the most modern and perfect in the world.
It is stronger than any other, and is a Certain Cure for All Cases
of Nervous Disorders, Weak Back, Lumbago, Rheumatism, Liver,
Kidney and Stomach Troubles, Come-and-Go Pains, and that Tired
Feeling. It will cure after all others fail. Our Belt gives a soothing,
warm, strengthening and delightful current of electricity into the
afflicted nerves and system while you sleep. It never blisters or
burns the body, because it is constructed to give electricity in a
proper way.
NO CURE, NO PAY.
Others claim this, but I am the only one who will really send a
valuable belt absolutely free, on trial, for three months. If you
are cured I know you will willingly pay ; if you are not cured, you
will not have to pay one penny. Write at once, or call and test
my Belt free. No charge for personal consultation.
The Dr. J. n. Austin Electric Co. c***-
49 ELIZABETH ST. } MELBOURNE, VIC.
!*'
HERR RASSMUSSEN
will guarantee to cure Nervous Weak-
ness, Blood Diseases, Piles, Rheuma-
tism, Corpulency, Liver and Kidney
Troubles. Me will send his Book Free.
All correspondence will be held
confidential.
BRISBANE: 309 Queen St.
MELBOURNE: 150 Bourke St.
WEAK, NERVOUS MEN, WHY SUFFER
w
HEN you can be quickly and permanently cured by taking Herr Hassmussen’s ALTAIiINE Vitality Pills which have cured so many
thousand sufferers from DEBILITY, POOR MEMORY, WEAK SPINE, DESPONDENCY, and all which robs Manhood of that winch
is dearest to it-Vital Strength. Herr Rassmussen will guarantee this remedy to cure every case no matter of how long standing, and he will
tn’ve his skilled advice oer son ally to all natrons of his remedies FREE OF CHARGE, either in his offices or by post So don t despair, but
give his skilled advice personally to all patrons of his remedies
communicate with him without delay, no matter where you live.
ALF ALINE VITALITY PILLS.
Treatment by Post a Speciality. Pamphlet sent Free.
Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d., posted.
Blood and Skin Diseases
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, Stone in the Bladder, and Blood
Impurities guaranteed to be removed and permanently cured by
ALF ALINE BLOOD PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d. posted.
Anaemic Women
suffering from Wasting Diseases, Pale, Lifeless, and otherwise affected, should at once communicate with HERR
R ASSMUSSEN. His lifelong experience is at their service, and his
AT/FA LINE UNIVERSAL PILLS will cure them. Boxes, 6s; Courses, 235. 6d.
LIVER and KIDNEY TROUBLES cured at once by the ALFALINE LIVER and WDNEY PILLS, Boxes Is.
His RHEUMATIC PILLS are World-famed, and his PILE POWDERS never fail ; 6a. per box each.
The ALF ALINE REMEDIES can only beobtained from ....
Herr Bassmussen’s Head Office-
547 George St., Sydney,
AND HIS BRANCHES AS FOLLOW—
ADELAIDE: 15 Pulteney St. W.A., PERTH: 481 Hay St. FREMANTLE: 117 High St-
N-Z. : 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington. KALGOORLIE: 111 Hannan St. BOULDER CITY • Piesse St.


London Spobting Life states that the veteran
swimmer, Marquis Bibbero, intends attempting to swim
the English Channel next month (August). The cheerful
old person is only 80 years of age. Madame Isaacsen
who has already made one failure, also means to have
another try, and may possibly accompany him. Whether
it is proper for them to do this without a chaperon is a
moot point.
» * « *
R.A.K. : Saw a well-dressed little girl about
six worm her way through a smoking* chattering crew of
hobbledehoys outside a pub. and laboriously take down
on a bit of paper the names of the winners posted up.
Wondered whether it was for father or mother, or
whether the kid had a little bit on, on her own
* * * *
The management of Maoriland Caledonian
Association, formed with a great flourish of trumpets a
few years back, seems to have fallen into a sad state of
disrepair. It was to control the games held by associa-
tions in both Islands, put professional running on a
proper basis, and all the rest of it; but though it really
apparently intended to set about smashing things at the
outset, it merely fell back in its arm-chair and peacefully
went to sleep. Now some of the strongest organisations
are clamoring for the registration of all pro’s, and
threaten secession if the inert management doesn’t infuse
a little more vitality into its proceedings and bring about
much-needed reforms.
* * * *
“ J.A.C.” : Be English Derby. It was first run
on May 4, 1780, when Diomed won, and was named after
the twelfth Earl of Derby. The hottest favorite to win
was Ladas, 1894, with 9to 2 on. Galtee More, 1897, had
4 to 1 laid on him. The longest-price winner was Jeddah,
1898, at 100 to 1. Hermit’s Derby, 1867, was run in a
snow-storm, when the odds were 66 to l. The largest
field was in 1862, when 34 started, Caractacus, another
outsider at 66 to 1, winning. It is remarkable that the
quickest time was done by Volodyovski.an inferior horse,
1901. He holds the record (2min. 40 4-ssec.). The King’s
horses, Persimmon and Diamond Jubilee, are next best,
with 2min. 42sec. each. The slowest Derby was in 1856,
when Ellington won. He took 3min. 4sec. to cover the
mile and a half. “Jim” Kobinson, whose first victory
was achieved in 1817, rode the greatest number of
winners, coming in first on six occasions.
* * * *
“ Le Chasse ” writes : Bulletin seems doubtful
as regards the late A. R. Robertson’s connection with
Newmarket Handicap winner Coronet. The fact is
Coronet was the property of A. R. Robertson and his twin
brother, D. M. Robertson. In addition to the substantial
whacks the brothers had out of their father’s es.ate
(about £40,000 each), they pocketed something like
£30,000 in bets over the Newmarket flutter, but money
ran through their hands outwards, like water through a
sieve ; they were fleeced right arid left and up and down.
When Coronet won the Newmarket the brothers started
an “ open house ” at Newmarket, and everyone who cared
to do so could swim in champagne, for a few hours, but
after that not a bottle could be found in the whole
district. So red-hot did the brothers serve up Coronet
for the Australian Cup that, had he won, the back of the
ring would have been broken. But certain children have
their dusky daddy’s luck, and it was the brothers who
walked home by the dirt road, while the gay and festive
“ Tommies ” rolled home in cabs, smoking shilling cigars
and blessing Moses for having come to the shnickin’ and
bringing good luck along with him. When the ring
breaks the bottom will fall, out of Sheol.
* * * *
Proposed by a Yankee writer that races should
be started by tap of drum. Rather suggestive of the
preliminary of a “ dead ” march.
* » * *
Despite the long list of accidents caused by the
“ Cathedral ” on Flemington course, no one has been
able to explain why they did or should occur, the turf on
either side being perfection.
* * * *
Controllers of the M.L. Boxing Association—
all men in influential positions—made a bold policy stroke
when thev nobbled the police authorities. Latter have
now ordained that no glove contests will be allowed un-
less under the auspices of the association. So much for
good management.
The son of Ham looms large on the pug horizon.
Negroes Sam Johnson and M’Vey are the only men in
sight likely to succeed Jeffries or Corbett (if the latter
beats the huge Los Angeles boilermaker next month for
world’s supremacy), and there are many who think either
black is certain to whip Corbett, and would go mighty
' close to accounting tor Jeffries. Joe Walcottand “ Young
Peter Jackson ” dispute world’s middle-weight honors
with Tommy Ryan, who draws the “ color line ” on them.
Another thick-lipped, ebon-hued one (Joe Gans) is un-
questionably the world’s fore-front light-weight, and
rated by some the greatest pug. of African extraction
that has ever lived.
* * * »
“Z”: He was a racing man, and there was a streak
of good nature in his horsey phiz, that moved me to men-
tion the “ Higher Life ” to him in an offhand manner.
“Woteher drivin’ at, anyhow?” I asked him if he
thought “ running Dyes ” was fair to his fellow man ? He
finished his whisky leisurely ; I could see he was reflect-
ing. Then he made a sign to the beer-squirter, and,
turning to me, said, gravely and deliberately: “Dash
and blow my fellow man. If my neddie wants a bag of
oats will Mr. Blooming Fellerman buy ’em ? Not much !
So if he gets on to my horse and falls in the muck, that’s
his filthy funeral- I won’t be even a mourner.” Then I
gave it up. It was evidently quite useless to mention
the “ Higher Life ”to a racing man. Once a man owns
race horses he quickly descends to making money.
“ Adelaide ” : The Vic. lacrosse team, so badly
beaten here, stayed on for a match with Sturt, the
leading local club, and only won after a desperate battle
by 12 to 8. Four of the S. A. 12 were in the club team,
and made things very warm on the attack. In fact the
Yic. back men are only moderate, or else local forwards
are something wonderful, for in neither match could the
former prevent the latter from getting in right on
top-of the goalkeeper. Rudd “kept” very finely,
but he never saw most of the shots that passed
him—or a good many of those that he saved.
It seems likely to this writer that the win from N.S.W.
did the Victorian men a lot of harm. When you are
winning, anyway, you can show lots of science, and the
Melbourne men were so cracked up all the week by press
and others on their “ combination,” that when they got
here it was passing run mad. Certainly, their catching
was wonderful, but it is quite useless to pass to any man
unless he is free. If you can only launch the ball at a
group of two, one of whom is an opponent, surely the old
way of landing it 100 yards up the field is better ?
* * * *
The colored brother keeps cropping up in all
kinds of unexpected lines of sport. The very latest thing
is that one Janrsitjee, a Parsee, has beaten Gilbert
Browne, English champion, and won the championship of
racquets. '
* * * *
“Uppercut”: The correspondent who girds at
Sandow’s system is like the other man who denounces
athletics generally and imagines that strength varies
as the mass. Those who have closely followed
any sport know well that the man usually called
“fine looking” by frequenters of the block is
about as shapely as a bladder of lard when he
gets his clothes off, and just about as effective. The
crack athletes of Australia—aquatic, footballing or pugil-
istic—give no indication of their outlines in street attire ;
and what a surprise was Sandowhimself to the uninitiated 1
The value of exercise, whether in the form of athletics or
a physical development system, is properly appreciated
only by those who have gone through it; or, better still,
those who have had the misfortune to put their force
against those who have gone through it. Sandow’s own
particular system differs but little from a score of others,
and is probably no better. But Sandow made one great
discovery which previous physical culturists overlooked
—the psychological aspect of exercise. He was the first
to realise that improvement is proportionate, not to prac-
tice, but effort, in muscle as in everything else ; and by
impressing upon his disciples the necessity of keeping
their minds concentrated upon their muscles, he has been
able to turn out, with half the actual amount of exercise,
a number of youthful Herculeses able to tear to pieces
the old-time men who were wont to swing dumbbells
mechanically for an hour a day as they yarned about
their best girl to their room mate. Thorough believer
though I am in Sandow’s system, I fancy that "it will lead
to the deterioration of athletics. Muscle binding is the
inevitable result of such development. I would wager
that Sandow himself couldn’t turn off 100yds. in 15secs. ;
while, as for boxing, he might have a herald in front of
him to announce his blows.
Bacillus Londoniensis.
To hint in this 20th century that the effects of
travel may be harmful and not beneficial, is to
incur at once the reproach of an illiberal mind, of
a narrow view and of a parochial patriotism. Aet
many things which look disgustingly intolerant at
a first sight can be seen, in their true light, as of
great value after a closer examination. Perhaps
“travel,” in spite of its fetish position in the
minds of modern men, is not always a sure path
to knowledge and breadth of mind ; and perhaps
a partial prohibition of travel would not be to
nurse ignorance and foster petty prejudice ? There
have been great men who grew to noble estate
fixed within petty boundaries ; there have been
great rulers and reformers who owed nothing to
foreign intercourse. On the other hand, there
have been many instances where the travelling of
its rulers has led to a nation limping pitifully in
“tardy apish” fashion in awkward imitation of
some other land, and individuals have come back
from a grand tour with no better intellectual
broadening than a knowledge of the price of
chickens in Rome and the rates of ’bus fares in
London.
* * * *
The question is, so far as Australia is concerned,
practically as to the respective value of sturdiness
and of polish. The travelled Australian may gain
some polish. It is inevitable that in very many
cases he will lose some sturdiness. The man who
hasn’t a country of his own, only the beginnings
of a country, is not safe abroad. He has no great
national traditions of his own to stay him up, no
splendid history behind him, no very glittering
prospect before him. He is naturally tempted by
the glories of other lands, their riches and their
promises of great rewards, to forget the poor little
patch, he came from and to become un-Australian ;
that is, unless he is of the temper of a Cincin-
natus, and human steel of that sort is rare.
Study the average Australian politician before
and after his first visit to London, and the
effects of “travel” will be at once apparent.
Before, he is prone to speak of Australia
as the first consideration; afterwards—after
he has figured in a court suit, and grasped or
seen close to his grasp a title ; after his mind has
been infected with the dazzling possibilities of
the advancement to be won in richer fields—he is
all for “ the Empire.” That may be a good thing
for “ the Empire,” but it is a very bad thing for
Australia.
* * • •
The most vigorous period of Australia’s as yet
infant life was undoubtedly that time when “ the
Empire” was not in fashion, when British politi-
cians had not “discovered the colonies,” and
when Australian public men had to be Aus-
tralian because there was not much en-
couragement to be anything else. National
advancement only comes from an entire
self-devotion and a complete centralising of
a people’s energies on its own affairs. Indeed it
may be said that national advancement needs
what, from a cosmopolitan point of view, may be
called a “narrow” outlook. The eyes must be
in the boat. Energy must be centred in the fur-
row that is before the plough. The Australian
who is to do any good for Australia must be for
Australia, and Australia alone, all the time. It is
ridiculous for the Australian public man to
prate of a “broad view,” of “wide Imperial
responsibilities,” of the “great destiny of
the English speaking races,” whilst he neglects
Australia to seek the distinction of out-
side favor. Such an attitude is first cousin
to that of the man who neglects his own
family while attitudinising on platforms for
the advancement of humanity and the promo-
tion of the millenium. Australia cannot offer a
very glittering field to the public man as yet.
Its domestic politics attract but little attention
in the outside world, though they can promote
the happiness of 4,000,000 of people. It can hold
out no prospect of great riches to its servants,
who must accept as part of the price of faithful
service the consciousness of duty rightly done
and a country nobly served. Only to the truly
great man, whose mind is not wholly sordid,
whose intellect is sufficiently great to lift
him above the garish mummery of courts and
titles and barbaric gauds, does Australia give a
tempting enough prospect. There are such men,
whose love is for the work and not the reward ;
and they are wanted in Australia; and they need
no training in Court ceremonial, no familiarity
with the pomp of Empire, to fit them for their
work. For them “travel” is unnecessary, even
though not harmful. But Australia cannot at
first hope to breed many such men, cannot hope
to have them always available for its government.
It must store its wine in weaker vessels some-
times ; and it is these pots that are so liable to come
back cracked from London. Left in Australia,
subject to none of the temptations of the richer
world outside, they might follow the inspiriting
example of greater minds and follow the path of
Australian duty—narrow though it be. With a
knowledge of broader, easier paths, leading to
more glittering rewards, they are apt to desert
the ideal of Australia for the idol of “ the
Empire.”
* * * *
When Australia has done something for itself,
when it has redeemed its credit and tilled some
small proportion of its soil and set up its factories,
and grown to nationhood, it will be time for its
public men to consider themselves and their coun-
try in relation to the Empire. At present there
is too much work at home, and Australia cannot,
without treachery to itself, give any thought or
effort to other tasks. That is the view which
Australian public men should take. It may be a
dull, grey view ; there is no gleam in it of a
parrot’s feather, or a ribbon, or a bit of colored
glass, given with ridiculous solemnity by an
absurd ruling personage. But it has an intrinsic
nobility of its own, and a virtue which can afford
to incur the reproach of narrow-mindedness. To
it the bacillus of London is so often fatal that it
deserves to be a maxim of Australian public life
that public men should, as far as possible, be kept
away from Europe.
Queensland’s Agent-General, Tozeb, “has
warned the Federal Premier of the damage to
Australian credit that is certain to ensue ” from
the Government’s administration of the Immigra-
tion Restriction Act. Quite likely; and at last
Tozer does Australia a good turn by pointing
this out. But Tozeb goes wrong at this stage.
Administer the Act differently, he says—ignoring
the alternative course, which is to administer the
Act as hitherto, and put up with the consequences
so far as damaged credit is concerned. If a man
doesn’t want credit it doesn’t matter a straw to
him whether his credit is good or not; and so
with a country If, however, the country does
want credit, then it has to be careful to please the
man with the money-bags. And that is the al-
ternative that the Australian Liberal and Labor
party has to. face. It has the reliable word of
Tozer that either its credit or its independence
must suffer. Which does it value most—its honor
and the purity of the white race, or a loan ?
>
Trade
MarK
above Cpabe flapk is a g'uapaotee of sooi>bi>ess of Matepial
ai>s Quality of bye of all . . .
MERINO COATINGS <& SERGES
oi) wbicb it is stamped.
BEWARE
. OF .
IMITATIONS
As tbe result of many years experience FOX*S PURC
INDIGO DYC is recognised as tbe best in tbe
market.
All FOX’S Serges and Coatings are stamped every two
yards on tbe back
PURE INDIGO
and without tbis stamp are not genuine.
FOX
JTiese Celebrated Serges can be obtained from the JOeading Cailors and drapers
THROUGHOUT THE COLONIES.
FOX BROS. Co., Ltd,, Wellington, Somerset, ENGLAND.


Hannan s Reward, Mt. Charlotte (W.A.), was
reconstructed 18 months ago with a 2s. assessment
alleged to be worth £15,000. It seems the assessment
for some unknown reason, only realised half this amount!
and that Manager Oorbould was not told till he had
pretty well spent the lot on much-needed alterations and
repairs. Oorbould then advised tributing the rich n arrow
leaders to keep the co. in funds, but was over-ruled and
resigned. The co.’s local attorney then appointed Henry
Nuttman to take charge, and, although co. has been pro-
ducing £lOOO of gold monthly, it has been costing some
£l2OO to produce it, and that game can’t go on for ever.
As before reported, half the men have been given notice,
and one shift only will be run. If it didn’t pay to run the
air-compressor and rock-drills two shifts, it certainly will
increase the loss to run one only. Tributors used to pay 15
to 20 per cent, royalty, according to the grade of ore won, so
that, had Corbould’s advice been followed, co. would have
been pocketing from £l5O to £2OO a month on the same
monthly yield, instead of losing that amount. This is a
case of little knowledge being a dangerous thing; Oor-
bould knew the ground thoroughly, and others didn’t.
Hence the muddle.
• • • *
Peak Hill (W.A.) ia now producing about
3000 oz. monthly from lldwt. ore, and making a profit of
£4OOO to £5OOO. This should admit of a Is. dividend
every three or four months. The present manager, R.
Leslie Hall, deserves every credit for getting the mine
again on its feet. The co., which a little while ago was
£l7OO in debt, paid a Is. div. in April, and, as all profits
will now be distributed, the next div. may be expected
about August.
• • • *
The Eaglehawk mines figure conspicuously in
Bendigo’s returns for the past half-year, viz. : S. New
Moon, 10,3570z5., £2B,Boodivs.; Great Northern, 84050z5.,
£24,750 divs. ; New Moon, 81050z5., £19,200 diva. •
Clarence, 41030z5., £7500 divs. Over two-thirds of the
products has been returned as profit. South New Moon
holds pride of place in all Victoria and is likely
to continue to do so; current half-year’s divs,
ought to reach £35,000 ; at the lowest the year’s
divs. will be £2 per share. Value of stock, £7 ss. per
share, or less than four years’purchase, which is reported
to be actually in sight. As an amalgamation scheme the
Moon group of mines has no equal in Eastern Australia.
•'* * •
An old-time agitation has been renewed in Bal-
larat. This is a proposal for a comprehensive system of
drainage on the Sebastopol plateau. Several large and
influential meetings have been held and'every thing pro-
gressed smoothly until the question of expense was
mooted. Everyone proclaimed that the project was a
magnificent one, and that its accomplishment would lead
to a mighty revival of the mining industry, but when it
was suggested that the Ballarat people and the lease-
holders specially interested should contribute, they all
cut a very sorry figure. The only suggestion which met
with approval was that the cost should be borne by the
Government, which should be recouped by royalties on
gold won as the result of the drainage operations. Enter-
prise must be a dead letter with Ballarat men when they
deliberately put themselves in this humiliating position.
A new co., which bears the doubtful name of
the London and Globe Deep Leads Assets 00., has been
formed to take over the Loddon Valley (Vic.) properties
formerly controlled by Whitaker Wright. In addition to
the original blocks, it is stated that the co. has acquired
the “ Option ” blocks, which adjoin on the north side,
“ and the Madame Berry lead has been proved to run
through this property." From Madame Berry, Oreswick,
to Loddon Valley blocks, Moalort, is a far cry.
* • • *
“Alone” writes: Golden Gate Co., Moyßton
(Vic.), is making a praiseworthy attempt to locate the
continuation (if any) of the old lead of alluvial, from the
working of which the whims were beaten by the
water 35 years ago. The lift put in by present co. beats
the water with ease, and manager Smith reports payable
prospects coming down the bores, and is sanguine.
Puddlers will be talking to shareholders In a few weeks*
time.
* * * •
Hercules Mine, Mount Read, Tasmania, which
has declared its first dividend of fid. per share on 106,000
shares, is the first of the Read group to get on the divi-
dend list. For past half-year there was an output of
6985 tons, netting the company £15,266, exclusive of all
smelting and treatment charges. Of this output 3731
tons gossan ore was treated at the Dapto smelters, and
3254 tons sulphide ore at Zeehan smelters, the gossan
averaging per ton lOdwt. of gold, 250 z. of silver, and 10
per cent, lead, and the sulphide 6dwt. of gold, 21oz. of
silver, and 10 per cent, of lead. Total output from mine
to date of last report was 19,477 tons of crude ore, giving
a net return of £49,617. The co. has in hand some
£ll,OOO or £12,000 cash, out of which the dividend is
being paid. All ore disposed of is sold as crude ore, there
being no concentration of any kind on the mine.
• * * *
Every J. Bull concern which has yet tackled
N.T. ipining has made success practically impossible by
its riotous extravagance. It is little use offering a small
thing'to J.B. ;he answers that it isn’t worth while. To
get oyer that difficulty, nobody offers him anything
nowadays as a small thing; it is boomed to appear large,
a large price is demanded, and, if the co. is formed, the
arrangements are on a corresponding scale of largeness.
N.T. mines have, almost without exception, been handi-
capped beyond hope by this treatment. The N.T. Mining
► and Smelting Co. promises to go the same way. It has
chartered a steamer to bring out a cargo of rails, engines,
trucks, 60-ton smelter, bricks, &c., for two reverberatories,
blowers, 1000 tons coke, and a vast quantity of sundries/
A light railway line is to be laid between Yam Creek and
Mount Ellison, and generally the show is to be run on a
scale of magnificence never before attempted. They call
all this “ bringing foreign capital into the country to
develop it,” and it is the sort of thing that, itis alleged, it
would be a calamity to discourage. In the end, it is only
bringing into the country scrap-iron, rust and discredit.
• * • *
Chatters Towers (Q.) results for the past half-
year compared with the first half of 1902:
First Half First Half
1902. 1903.
Stone milled; tons .. 101,159 119,600 Inc. 18,441
Gold from stone, oz. .. 103,564 130,284 „ 26,720
Tails cyanided, tons .. 167,958 133,890 Dec. 34,068
Gold from cyanide, 0z... 69,799 72,153 Inc. 2,354
Dividends £181,669 £207,352 „ £25,683
Calls ' £23,880 £69,280 „ £45,400
Profit ' £157,789 £138,088 Dec. £19,701
Gold averaged loz. Odwt. llgr. in 1902, and loz. ldwt. 18gr.
in 1903—an improvement of ldwt. 7gr. Principal divi-
dend, producers were : Queen Cross, £76,000 (7s. 6d. per
share); Brilliant Central, £30,000; Victoria and Queen,
£26,000; Brilliant and St. George, £23,400; Band of Hope,
£13,500; Victoria and Caledonian Block, £12,000; Brilli-
ant Extended, £6250 ; Day Dawn, £4948.
> * * * •
Aggregate Queensland figures for two periods t*
- First half First half
1902. 1903. Increase.
Gold(fiiie).. 281,6900 z. .. 321,3660 z. .. 39,6760 z.
Dividends .. £379,163 .. £463,109 .. £83,946
For the month of June:
' Calls. Dividends.
Gympie.; £5,658 .. £38,400
Charters Towers .. .. 13,071 .. 34,450
Mt. Morgan Nil. .. 12,500
Croydon ! .. .. 1,004 .. 2,400
Ravenswood .. .. 1,675 .. 625
* (" * * *
‘ ‘ Salvation Hill Gold Mines ” Co., Gulgong
(N.S.W.) is in 18,000 shares at £1; working capital, £6OOO.
This mine was held by a local syndicate of 20. Then',
after sinking a lot of cash and a shaft to 210 ft., co.
was forced, owing to water and want of better hauling
appliance, to effect a London flotation, showing
its faith in the value of property by taking
one-third in shares and dispensing with the usual
cash consideration. A serviceable steam hauling
plant, was erected and work started about four
months , ago. The prospectus suggested sinking
the present shaft a further 200 ft. to prove the lode (a
main fissure formation carrying most of the gold in the
mineral) at that depth by driving and crosscutting; but,
owing to the present easy-going system of working, only
the youngest members of the original syndicate ever hope
so see that depth reached, provided, of course, that the
working capital stands the strain. The co. has an area of
about 45 acres, and local belief is that, with vigorous
management, mine might develop into a paying concern.
White Cliffs (N.S.W.) opal-field shows some of
the great things that private enterprise can do. An
English co. got hold of the central blocks of the field, and
has almost ever since pursued a policy of masterly
inactivity, doing absolutely no work itself, but levying
tribute from several hundreds of men who work the
ground. Naturally, nothing in the shape of deep pros-
pecting has been attempted ; and now, when the surface
gem has apparently been pretty well exhausted, the
State has had to “ part up ” enough to test the ground a
hundred feet or so deeper. A grant has just been passed
for this purpose. Very little stone is at present being
got on the field ; moreover, the demand for opal is re-
ported to have slackened seriously in Europe, so that
prices are not good.
At Poverty Point.
“Lily” Langtry has had a play written for her in
which there is a bedroom scene. Here Lily “disrobes"
gradually until she stands amidst a mass of dazzling
lingerie. But the Lily wears so many clothes in that act
that though she takes off enough to fit any ordinary
woman for bed she is still a clothed lady, and only her
still beautiful bust and arms are really visible.
Lecturer Charles Clark’s English estate cut up for
£13,880.
Oscar Asche, from Sydney, has been playing Benedick
to Ellen Terry’s Beatrice in her revival of “ Much Ado."
“ J.A.0.” : They know a thing or two in China. There
the sons of actors—like the sons of public executioners—
are debarred from the mandarinate. Considering the
kind of justice a man learns on the stage, where large
estates are given away by policemen on a mere shred of
evidence, and the person who is accused by the villain is
liable to be hanged instantly, unless the funny man inter-
venes, this isn’t surprising.
Walkley, the well-known dramatic critic, writes thus
of an eminent actor known to Australians :—“ Mr.
Wilson Barrett’s Hamlet—the ideal Hamlet, it has been
said, of the British vestryman—a ten-pound householder
Hamlet.”
Sensibly decided by a German court that every person
paying for admission to a theatre has the right to a full
view of the stage, and that anyone given a seat which
hasn’t it can demand his money back. This throws on
managers an obligation to remove the matinee hat, pre-
sumably by force, if necessary. A man pays to see the
show—not the hat.
The silly, glorified walk of the London stockbrokers
(which performance threatens to be copied ad nauseam
in Australia) was utilised for biograph purposes at the
local Hippodrome. A series of pictures showing the bell-
toppered brethren toddling on their weary way was
exhibited twice daily at the Hip. with great success. All
the brokers paid their money to see themselves figuring
on the sheet, and as soon as a man spotted himself in the
picture he brought his womenkind along to admire, and
the ladies hailed his living picture with shrieks of excite-
ment.
“ Nar-Rooni ” writes: As one of the family, let me
correct a Poverty Point par (9/8/’O3). The “ portly Marie
Narelle, of Sydney,” is not a cousin of the attenuated
Kate Rooney at all—no relation whatever; in fact, it was
only within the last year or so that the two warblers
became acquainted. By birth our Sweet Marie is a Ryan
—Molly Ryan—and by marriage a Callaghan. But she
was born at Narellan (N.S.W.), hence the stage name,
which many mistake for French or Italian ; in reality, it
is Australian blackfellow. Miss Rooney was born at
Dubbo (N.S. W.). She is still studying with Santley, who
predicts much success for her on the concert platform.
Davidson and wife, leading actor and actress, having
gone into liquidation in the Divorce Court, the New York
American interviews both. Davidson says: “Actresses
are failures as wives. Give me a dish of boiled beef or
herbs where there is good housewifery. I never want
another wife with the artistic temperament. An actor
leaves the stage behind him, but an actress never does.
Her emotional scenes at home are the best in her
repertoire. Actresses are the least neat of women. They
are addicted to wrappers. They are extravagant. The
very temperament that makes a woman a success as
an actress makes a failure as a wife. She has none
of the rustic charming aloofness which is one
of the charms of another woman. When a man
protests against her doings it is neighbors, friends,
relatives, tears, acting, hysterics. She is too
strenuous for an ordinary man, who craves serenity.”
Now hear Mrs. Davidson. She says : “ Actors, as a rule,
are impossible as husbands. They are peacocks. They
are the most conceited men on earth. No one enjoys
living with a man who talks, thinks, dreams, and even
talks in his sleep, constantly of himself. He always wants
the centre of the stage. You will find the actor well
dressed, with a flower in his buttonhole, when he and his
family have had nothing to eat for two days. Mr. David-
son would buy three or four suits at a time, and wouldn’t
give me one gown. It is always a feast or a famine with
actors. They have all the sensitiveness and nerves and
whims of women, without a woman’s great tenderness of
heart. An actor has learned from his parts, if not from
his nature, the art of refined cruelty. Actors are fickle.
The exceptions are so rare that I don’t know any."
In what part of Central Africa is Italy
situated '! The other day (25/6/’O3) one of the
learned geographers of Sydney Telegraph wrote.
“The law as to early closing with regard to fruit
shops, whether kept by Italians or Europeans,
is,” &c.
*Felo de Se,” which, we’ve been told,
Is meant for suicide,
Applies to Jones, who caught a cold,
Neglected it, and died ;
Carelessness won’t make old bones,
Nor health to us secure.
When you’ve a cold, don’t follow Jones—
Take Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
Phthisis has robbed Bohemia of Davidson
([“Peter”) Simmonds, one of its most welcome
members, and Australia of oneof its most entertain-
ing writers. “Peter’’was originally responsible
for the Argus “ Passing Show ” column ; after-
wards Johnny Sandes joined him, and they
worked together till Simmonds left the Argus
and went to the Herald. Simmonds got his
earliest press training in the north of Victoria,
then took up city reporting and proved himself
one of the smartest of men at the game, first in
Sydney and then in Melbourne. He did also
some light magazine work almost as good as any-
thing done in these parts. He had hardly reached
middle age when he died, leaving a wider circle of
friends than most men can claim.
SWEET NELL OP OLD DRURY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Pepys wrote his diary down
In quaint old phrase and ill-spelled noun,
Jack Rochester and Killigrew,
With all their reckless, royst’ring crew,
Wenched, wined and wanton’d it in town.
“ Old Rowley " then wore England’s crown ;
Frail Oastlemaine had won renown,
And Nell the world to Drury drew
When Pepys wrote.
Gay profligacy mocked the frown
Of Virtue in “ fanatique ” brown,
And made those old days vicious. True ;
But is there now much better brew ?
Our vice goes cloak’d ; it wore no gown
When Pepys wrote I
N.S.W.
S. ELLIOTT NAPHER.
d.c.l:
What Women Should he Like.
“ Woman,” says a celebrated Spanish poet, “is
the greatest attractive force in the world. Her
step should be brisk, yet light; her touch gentle;
her eyes alternately bright and languishing; her
voice soft and low; her laugh merry and rippling;
a delightful creature, born to be happy, and to
confer happiness upon others.”
A pretty picture, forsooth ! Would that it
were true of every woman in the world. But un-
fortunately it isn’t; and all the flowery language
of all the poets of Spain will not make us believe
that more than ten out of every hundred women
attain this high standard. And that is saying
nothing in disparagement of the fair sex either.
Quite the contrary. It is only opposing a little
common sense to the fantastic notion of an
irresponsible rhymester. We think quite as
highly of women as the Spanish poet, and are
always prepared to champion them; but this is a
work-a-day world, and it is worse than useless to
shut one’s eyes to the hard facts of life, such as
domestic duties, sickness, and so forth. Here is
a brief account of one woman out of the many
who could not conform to the poet’s ideal.
‘‘For a number of years,” writes Mrs. Belle
Conlan, of 4, Parnell Place, Newcastle, N.S.W.,
22nd February, 1903, “I suffered during the
summer from acute indigestion and bilious attacks.
I was also subject to splitting headaches, which
would occasionally completely prostrate me. At
such times I would lie in a darkened room and
suffer in silence. I had no appetite, slept poorly,
and was low-spirited and nervous. Not until I
tried Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup did I obtain
any relief. Patent medicines and tonics of various
kinds I had taken without avail. I bought a two-
and-sixpenny bottle of the Syrup, and had not
taken more than three doses of it when my con-
dition changed for the better. I continued to use
the medicine, and in a few weeks my health was
quite set up again. I can now eat well, sleep well,
and perform my domestic duties with ease—in
fact, all through the present trying summer I
have been quite free from indigestion, headaches,
and bilious attacks, thanks to Mother Seigel’s
Curative Syrup. I cannot praise it too highly for
what it has done for me, and shall always keep, a
bottle of it in the house.” Such is the testimony
of a woman who at one time was in danger of be-
coming a chronic invalid, but is now well, with
little likelihood of the return of her malady.
Discovery at Redfern (N.S.W.) of human
remains under a kitchen hearthstone revives
memories of Deeming, who, more than any senti-
mental poet or novelist, made the hearthstone
typical of domestic peace—perfect peace.
Air-ships are the la3t invention,
They navigate the air,
In future we’ll be in suspension
Travelling here and there.
We’ll gaily sail up in the sky,
Till us the clouds immure,
And catch bad colds, but won’t say die,
With Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
When Melbourne’s new “ Public Morals
League” recently waited on Vic. Minister “Jack”
Murray, to ask him to take measures to “prevent
newspapers reporting divorce proceedings,” it fell
in rather badly. Here is a portion of the verbatim.
report of the interview: —
Mr. Blyth, on behalf of the White Cross Society, pro-
tested against some reports which appeared in news-
papers. Sometimes they made horrible reading. Recently
a full report of a divorce case appeared in the news-
papers.
Mr. Murray : “ Did you read the reports?"
Mr. Blyth : “ Yes, I read them.”
Mr. Murray : “ Then I suppose that a great many
thousands of others read and enjoyed them.”
Mr. Blyth : “ The only reason I read them was .”
Mr. Murray : “ Ah, don’t give reasons.”
Solomon never gave wiser advice than that “don’t
give reasons.” The world’s holy moralists, when
they are detected coming out of a pub. with a
smell of whisky on their chin-hair, or otherwise
compromising themselves, always make the mis-
take of stopping to explain the perfect purity of
their motives. Then a crowd collects, cabs
stop, and dogs hurry up from round the corner.
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Not genuine without the signature.
Be sure you get Martin’s. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
“H.”: The most important discovery
ever made in the ruins of Asia was last year,
at Susa. A French expedition exhumed a huge
black stone, with an immensity of minute inscrip-
tions on it. They are the Laws of King Kham-
morabi, about 2600 years b.c. Professing to be
communicated by the Sun God, they largely ante-
date details of Moses’s Laws, in the Pentateuch.
INDICATION OF CROUP.
Hoarseness in a child that is subject to croup
is a sure indication of the approach of the disease.
If Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy is given as soon
as the child becomes hoarse, or even after the
croupy cough has appeared, it will prevent the
attack. It always cures, and cures quickly.
Is 6d.*
Amusements.
iANADA, UNITED STATES, NEWFOUNDLAND,
’ NEW ZEALAND, TASMANIA.
Hr. EDWARD BRANSCOnBE’S
WESTMINSTER ABBEY GLEE AND CONCERT
PARTY,
in a Unique PROGRAMME of the
National Music
of England, Scotland, Ireland, and Wales,
. Comprising
GLEES, MADRIGALS, CATCHES, and BALLADS.
Artists: H
Concert Contralto—-Madame MARIE HOOTON.
Soprano Boys :
Masters ALFRED BOUGHTON, REGINALD HYDE,
HORACE MARCHANT, LEONARD HUBIiARI),
and HAROLD SHEMMONDS.
Male Alto—Mr. PERCY COWARD.
Tenors—Mr. EDWARD BRANSCOMBE and Mr.
GEORGE POWNALL.
Basses—Mr. ALBERT ARCHDEACON and Mr.
HERBERT HILTON.
Humorous Musical Sketches—Mr. DUDLEY OAUSTON.
Accompanists :
Mr. HERBERT HILTON and Mr. EDWARD
BRANSCOMBE.
TOWN HALL, MELBOURNE, JULY 18.
Prices.—Balcony and Reserved Chairs, 3s. ; Unreserved
and South Gallery, 2s. ; Back Seats, Is.
CHANGE OF PROGRAMME NIGHTLY.
Amusements.
CRITERION THEATRE, BYDNEY.
Under the Direotion of Charles Holloway.
EVERY EVENING, EVERY EVENING,
CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S
DRAMATIC COMPANY
in the Most Successful, the Most Human Play ever written
THE TWO LITTLE VAGABONDS
(By Special Arrangement with J. C. Williamson, Esq.).
A GREAT CAST OF CHARACTERS.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee .. .. Mr. J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
Under the Direction of Mr. GEORGE MUSGROVE.
LAST NIGHTS of MICE AND MEN
To-Morrow (Friday). Saturday, & 5 Following Evenings
(FAREWELL SEASON)
Miss Nellie Stewart and George Husgrove’s New
English Comedy Co. in “ DOLORES.”
SATURDAY, JULY 25, A COUNTRY MOUSE and
“A PANTOMIME REHEARSAL.”
“SWEET NELL” MATINEES EVERY WEDNESDAY.
Prices as Usual. Plan Nicholson’s.
»ALACE THEATRE,
Lessee and Director ..
SYDNEY.
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
COMPLETE SUCCESS of
MR. DANIEL FRAWLEY
and his Company of American Players, including the
Charming Young Actress,
MISS MARY VAN BUREN, in
“ARIZON A.,”
“ America’s Greatest Play.”
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices—ss., 35., 25., and Is.
Lyceum
Lessee
THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Mr. George MUsgrove.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
TO-NIGHT, and EVERY EVENING, at ; 8,
■ WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
FAMOUS DRAMATIC ORGANISATION
in the Magnificently Staged, Melodramatic, Sensational
Spectacle, by James Williard, Esq.,
IN THE SHADOW OF NIGHT.
Prices—3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Box Plan open at Elvy’s Music
Warehouse, George Street.
the MUTOSCOPE.
WONDERFUL LIVING PICTURES.
KING STREET ARCADE
.»d 400 GEORGE STREET.
Always on View. Admission FREE.
T-TvOLI THEATRE, S Y O N EY.
I Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr, Harry Rickards.
NEW FIRST PART-LAWN TENNIS.
Splendid Success of the Royal Society Entertainer,
RUDINOFF. Also, America’s Greatest Comedy
Sketch Artists, HALLEN and FULLER.
Continued Brilliant Success of Miss MAUD PERMAN.
Miss ELLA WELLINGTON,. Miss MAGGIE FRASER,
Mr. HUGH HUXHAM, Mr.', FRED. RIVENHALL, Mr.
SAM WILSON, Mr. GEO. SCOTT-, Mr. GEO. WALLACE,
Mr. GUS FRANKS, and all our Great Co.
OPERA HOUSE, MELB OURNE,
Sole Proprietor arid Manager, Mr. H. Rickards.
11 THE BOISSETTS 11
The Greatest Entertainment in the world.
W. C. FEILDS,
America’s Greatest Eccentric Juggler.
FRED. RIVENHALL, WILL WHITBURN, RODA
PERRY, 808 BELL, WALKER & MAY, CONNIE
HAMILTON, LULU GOULD.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of A FORTUNE TELLER.
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 18, Mr. Musgrove’s Grand
Comic Opera Co. in
THE SERENADE,
For First Time in Melbourne,
Music by Victor Herbert.
USUAL PRICES. Box Plan at Allan’s.
HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Lessee .. .. .. Mr. Bland Holt.
Business Manager 0. Simonsens.
Continued Success Every Evening of
Bland Holt’s Dramatic Co. in the Great Australian
Melodramatic Attraction,
THE BREAKING OF THE DROUGHT.
Written by Mr. Arthur Shirley.
Prices —3s. 2s 6d. 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan's.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING, ’ EVE&Y EVENING,
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S
NOW FAMOUS MUSICAL COMEDY CO.
THE BELLE OF NEW
8
THE 48th ...
-Hour Demonstration
(Under sanction of
the Attorney-General)
and Art Union
Monday, sth Oct., ISQ3.
Prizes value £1250.
First Prize, value £5OO ; Second Prizr, value £ICO;
Third Prize, value £5O ; and 150 other valuable Prizes
The Prize Drawing is open to tlie public and the
press, and every purchaser of a ticket has an equal
chance whether present or not.
Last year a number of applications for tickets were
received too late for part cipation in the drawl g,
and their moneys had to be returned. People from a
distance should apply early and avoid this disap-
pointment.
Tickets to be obtained front
A. McDougall, Sect etary,
Trades Halt, Sydney,
or from Local 'Agents everyw here.
The First Prize (a Golden Emu valued at 500 sovs.)
was last year won by Mrs. Swadling, of Edden-street,
Leichhardt, Sydney.
Buy your Tickets Early.
Only One Shilling.
Under Vice-Ilegal
Patronage
And by
Special Appointment
Mrs* William Green and Miss Green
Professors of Ballroom Dancing', Deportment, Craoeful
Carriage, Etiquette and Calisthenic Exercises.
The Latest Society Skirt Dances. Classes arranged for at
private residences. Colleges and Convents attended.
Classes in all suburbs. Prospectus—
-11 ■llerelie,” 100 Nicholson-«t.,Fitsroyi


PHYSICAL DISASTER
sun
i •• g
■ ■
f ■
.
mm
£
&
; -
•*:
Si
L
/ ' .
.
. - ,
‘
■ ■
m
mm
. , -V-:: ft
■■*.:
V -
. . -
eSfeJss
■ ■
■■
m
■B
h,:< *
7
• M'-
’ '1 '
... L . _
Do Not Tempt Death by Delay.
MRS. ELIZA MANSFIELD, of Kew, Victoria, writes as follows (June 20th, ’O3)
“I can truly say I am better to-day than I have been for fully
five years. My friends everywhere can endorse this fact.”
Now, what is this woman’s story 1 Simply that she was dying from Indigestion
by inches. Her back was always bad, always on the ache. She had tried all manner
of remedies, and was tired of her doctors and of life itself. Then she saw that great
singer’s (Mr. Newbury) testimony and how he was cured of uric acid in the blood by
wearing the wonderful
Freeman & Wallace Electric “Invigorator” Belt
And she wore one herself, and was in good health again in a few weeks. If men and
women only knew it, here is a sure cure for many of their ailments, instead of drugging
themselves to death at the hands of doctors who know little of the nature of the illness
afflicting them. This wonderful Electric Belt, used judiciously with good medical
treatment, is a sure cure for many of the illnesses to which women are unfortunately
peculiar, and is recommended by leading members of the Hospital Nursing Staffs and
Medical Profession.
The Specialist’s Fees are—
ADVICE and MEDICINE, £1 ONLY.
The discoveries of Medical Science prove that to-day many so-called “INCURABLE ”
diseases may be cured by Electro-Medical methods which recently baffled the pathologist.
The incurable, agonising complaint is to-day quickly cured. ELECTRICITY is the vital
element necessary for the formation of new tissue, the inculcation of perve energy into diseased
nerve-centres, and to the restoration of vital nerve-power, the absence of which causes many
grave nerve diseases.
The Freeman & Wallace Electric “Invigorator” Belt
is genuine and highly certificated, and is sold for ONE POUND ONLY. It restores nerve-
energy in men and women when all other methods have failed. After a few hours’ wear each
night, the patient finds a swift improvement in his health. He regains his appetite, and is
soon able to eat well, sleep well, and work well. Persons have been cured in a few weeks of
so-called “ INCURABLE ” diseases by its wear, to which thousands of one-time sufferers
testify.
NOTE THIS ! WHEN YOU BUY
This Electric “Invigorator” Belt
you do not pay 50 (fifty) guineas for it; nor are you told the medical researches of all ages can be ignored,
and that an Electrical Belt will alone cure your case. An Electric Belt will not work wonders in cases
of dangerous diseases. There are many complaints which it will not cure, and which are only aggravated
by its application, and a permanent cure rendered more remote and uncertain. Such grave diseases as
INSOMNIA, FUNCTIONAL HEART DISORDERS, EPILEPSY, HYSTERIA, INDIGESTION,
DYSPEP3IA, KIDNEY AND BLADDER TROUBLES, DROPSY, LIVER COMPLAINT,
VARICOCELE, RUPTURE, and INFLAMMATION OF THE PROSTATE GLAND are speedily
remedied. Write to the Institute for special pamphlet of testimonies from cured persons, MAILED
FREE. You may find here a case similar to your own.
Do not wear an Electric Belt unless you are certain it will cure and not
aggravate your complaint. Electricity has been known to kill.
r,
HR. E. H. AMES.
SPECIAL NOTE.
When under treatment at the
Institute every patient is under the
especial care of DR. WALLACE,
M.D., L.R.C.P., E., L.E.P.S., E., L.M., who holds Nine Diplomas and
Certificates of Qualification and Registration by the Medical
Boards of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, England,
and America. He is a Specialist and Medical Electrician of great
International reputation, and is late of the Homoeopathic Hospital,
Melbourne, and British Army Medical Staff. (See N. S. Wales and
Victorian Registered Practitioners’ List.) All letters addressed to
him are treated with professional secrecy, and advice and professional
opinion are given EREE. Here are a few testimonies. Read them.
MR. G. D. HAILEY.
Mr EDWARD H. AMES, the Great American Rider, says—
“l endorse the new method of nerve restoration .
For some months my nerves were out of tone . I wore one
of your first-class Electric “ Invigorator " Belts, and soon
regained my nerve power , and was successful in winning
two great racing events in one day. 99
From Toorak, Victoria, ift/IVa G. D. HAILEY, chronicles his improvement
from chronic dyspepsia, from which he was a great sufferer. In his reply to
our queries concerning his health he states :
“Just a line to say lam getting on first-class. In
fact , I have not had better health for many years.
The medicine you sent me was the very thing in every
respect.
THESE ARE THE KIND OF LETTERS THAT WILL DO ANY SUFFERER’S HEART GOOD TO READ.
Electro-Medical and
Surgical Institute,
Hzabeth & Bathurst Sts., Sydney.
A FREE BOOK.
Over 100 Australian journals eulogise “ CLINI-
CAL EXPERIENCES,” a famous Medical
Work, comprising 550 PAGES, 150 MEDICAL PLATES, 35 CHAPTERS upon
GENERAL DISEASES, and gi’aphically-written articles upon SNAKEBITE, IN-
SOMNIA, ALCOHOLISM, PLAGUE, EEYERS, ELECTRICITY, FRACTURES,
GUNSHOT WOUNDS, SUNSTROKE, CANCER, CONSUMPTION, <fcc. It con-
tains a Vocabulary of 1000 medical terms, and a list of 50 Valuable Prescriptions,
which are invaluable in every home. Five Pence in Stamps, POST FREE to
ALL AUSTRALIA. No further charge. Read it, then lend it to your friends.


“J.F.D.” Listening to a Salvarmy circle
yesterday, I noted the rivalry in oratory and
bragging. Watched the man who was booked “to
follow on ” when the man who was speaking had
finished. His hands were clenched, and his whole
attitude seemed to say “ Wait till I get going,
you’ll hear something; his past life is small
potatoes to mine.” He jumped into the ring
with the force of a cyclone, and narrated more
crude and inartistic lies in three minutes than
Ananias could grind out in twelve months. And
the humor of ;it detailing his drunken orgies with
a huge pair of spectacles on ! A real beer drinker
near me assured me that he never saw a spec-
tacled man who could drink beer worth a hang.
Entomologist W. W. Froggart, in a report
to N.S.W. Minister for Agriculture, stresses the
urgent need for an up-to-date Codlin Moth Act.
According to Mr. Froggart fully two-thirds of the
apples grown in N.S.W. are damaged by the
moth, and, as a consequence £90,000 worth of
fruit, chiefly apples and pears, was purchased
last year from Tasmania, where, previous to the
passing of the Codlin Moth Act of 1888, the pest
was just as bad as it .is in N.S.W. The expert
recommends as a remedy systematic bandaging,
burning up all rubbish that might act as harbor
for the grubs, destruction of fallen apples, spraying
of trees with some arsenical compound, such as
Paris green, and astringent Act to compel all fruit-
growers to carry out these measures.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle. "
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors— Thomas Littlejohn, Esq.,Chairman; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short
Esq. ; Senator J. T. Walker ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ; F. E. Winchcomuk, Esq. m.p!
General Manager and Actuary— Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A:, F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
the famous remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
REMEMBER THAT
BEWARE OF
EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT,
COUGHS !
AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. yf. 0. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—l am writing to tell you
about the wonderful oure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in iny chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medioine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I oommenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effeoted a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridgs-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY lIEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months OML
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE'S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cin for bronchitis or colde of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Viotoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OP VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“ Llenwellyn,
“ Katunga, Vio.
“Mr. Hearne.—
“ Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to my mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER.”
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
"Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“ Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus—as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than i have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness vu sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
"Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HE ARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows :—“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
t.he night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure. —I remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Five Tears’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be withou
1 remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Tears’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well. —Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.”
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS' CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes “After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’9
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then
which was in the beginning of 1883— 15 years ago—l hav
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine qut
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states:—' I
am keeping very well now. Never have the slighter!
eturn of the Asthma.”
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
THE
SMELTING & REFINING GO. of AUSTRALIA
Works: DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA (56 Miles from Sydney). 1901, Limited.
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores,
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay. OyS/Hids, Sl&gS, c&Hd Jewellers Sv^ee]3,—
For all Information regarding Rates, apply to the Manager, Head Oeeice, Dapto;
or, A. E. RUDDER & CO., 40 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
“ Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical Record.
‘“Bengefs Food*
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medical Record.
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
For Infants, Invalids, and the Aged. Delicious, Nutritive, and Ligestibie.
Benger’s Food is sold by Chemists, &c., Everywhe r «
Extracts from Private
Letters.
“ My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult
tj find. My wife sounds
the praise of ‘ Benger s
Food’ everywhere.”
“ If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.


T
HERE ARE SEVERAL
♦4 • •
TALKING MACHINES
.. BUT THERE IS ONLY ONE
WHICH IS MADE BY
The gramophone $ Typewriter gtd.
This is a “JUNIOR ITONARCH” GRAMOPHONE,
Price £6 10s., and it is unsurpassed by any
Talking Machine at any Price.
Other Styles, £3 to £l4 10s.
Bead what ADELINA PATTI says:
To The Gramophone Co.,
City Road, London.
Gentlemen,
Craig-Y-Nos Castle,
Ystradgynlais, R.S.O
Breconshire,
South Wales
I have much pleasure in stating that I have heard your
Monarch Gramophone, and that I consider it a very remarkable instru-
ment of its kind, and quite the most perfect that I have ever heard.
It reproduces the human voice to such a fine point, that in listening
to the records of Caruso, Plancon, etc., it seemed to me as if those
artists were actually singing in my saloons. I have never heard
anything to equal it. -
Australian Agencies—VlCTOßlA: A. P. Sykes, 227 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Messrs. S. B. Hunt & Co., 94 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
WESTRALIA: Messrs. Nicholson & Co.. Perth.
TASMANIA: Messrs. Wertheimer, Benjamin, & Anderson, 71 Collins Street, Hobart.
QUEENSLAND: Messrs. Heindorff Bros., 210 Queen Street, Brisbane.
WHOLESALE DEPOT FOR AUSTRALASIA - AGENTS IN EVERY TOWN.
Represented all over
World.
The Gramophone and Typewriter Ltd., 183 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
All who lead active
lives understand
the
Value of Health.
A SLUGGISH UVER STIMULATED BY
KUTNOW’S POWDER
An Eminent Physician
Professor of Clinical Medical Disease
of Children and Hygiene, Marion-
Sims College of Medicine, and
College of Physicians and Sur-
geons, writing on April 3rd, 1901,
says :
The great surgeon, Professor Lawson
Tait, M.D., himself a sufferer from a
gouty diathesis, was not only one of the
world’s greatest surgeons, hut an able
physician and a skilful therapeutist. Por
years he found Kutnow’s Powder of great
value to him personally and in his prac-
tice, and this remedy is one of the few he
conspicuously endorsed over his own sig-
nature. He realised, as all observing
practitioners do, that it is necessary to
cleanse the system frequently, to remove
debris left by undigested food, and to
hasten the elimination of uric acid to
properly guard against serious disease.
Kutnow’s Powder stimulates the ac-
tivities of the bowels and kidneys. A
dessertspoonful taken in a tumberful of
water immediately on rising in the morn-
ing cleans out the bowels, dilutes the
urine, and flushes out the kidneys in a
most satisfactory way. Thorough elimi-
nation is salvation, and there is no better
eliminator than Kutnow’s Powder.
I N. LOVE, M.D.
BEWARE OF FRAUDULENT
SUBSTITUTES.
CAUTION. —There are some unscrupulous dealers who, for the
sake of extra profit, try to sell substitutes of Kutnow’s Powder.
These may be offered for a few pence less, but are worthless and
consequently dear at any price. Firmly insist
upon having Kutnow’s Powder and do not
allow yourself to be persuaded to accept any
substitute.
KUBELIK, the World-Renowned Violinist,
writes
Marienbad, 6th September, 1902,
Dear Sirs,—l received so much benefit from
the use of Kutnow’s Powder that I will gladly
recommend it to all my friends as a most ex-
cellent remedy for the stomach and nerves.
Yours truly,
JAN KUBELIK.
TCUTNOW’S
IMPROVED EFFERVESCENT CARLSBAD
POWDER.
Hlucninipiung
Leap
IP
<l, FMBIHCDOH ROAD. EJS*.
fttniawAi si«ionta)aniu4
KUTNOW’S POWDER CAN BE OBTAINED
FROM ALL CHEMISTS and MEDICINE
VENDORS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Eradicated Stubborn
Diseases.
The extraordinary complicated diseases
resulting from neglect of precautionary
measures pass the wit of man. It is not
the business of Kutnow’s Powder to claim
that it can cure all the ills of man-
kind, from Housemaid’s Knee to Impe-
cuniosity.
One solid, incontestable fact, however,
remains in the world-wide testimony of
sufferers from painful and distressing
derangements, viz., that Kutnow’s Powder
not only prevents disease by its marvel-
lous cleansing properties, but absolutely
eradicates diseases that have become
stubborn through neglect.
If in robust health take Kutnow’s
Powder on rising, and you need never be
ill; if ill, depressed, irritable, languid, or
sleepless, take Kutnow's, and the trouble
quickly vanishes ; the blood is purified,
the heart beats more vigorously, the
liver quickens into action, and the
kidneys are regulated into increased effi-
ciency. Thus does the man become
himself again, lives, breathes, and enjoys
his being, eats well, sleeps well, and
works well.
SICK-HEADACHE ERADICATED
BY KUTNOW’S POWDER.
Sufferers from Violent
Headaches Value
Kutnow’s Powder.
Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & CO.. Ltd., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.C. Proprietors in US A. : KUTNOW BROS., Ltd., 853 Broadway, New York.


Our House of Abdomens,
(By an infuriated Radical.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Within a Chamber sanctified
1 hey wallow in their pens,
Four dozen waistcoats gross and wide
Our House of Abdomens.
Above eaoh desert of white vest
A casual speck appears—
It is the head of Interest;
It is Greed’s eye that leers.
They speak with voices wheezing iow
Behind the walls of fat;
And, O, the sunsets pale their glow
Before each silken hat!
They sit like monsters out of some
Paleozoic time,
When on their pericardium
They crept amid the slime.
And so, to-day, these creatures creep,
Amid the slime they crawl,
And nose the legislative heap—
Our Lords Abdominal.
And some they take, and some they leave—
They are particular,
These porcine things that gasp and heave,
With mighty mouths ajar.
They do not stray to right or left,
But dwell there till they fall,
Entangled by Death’s fingers deft—
Our Lords Abdominal.
And then they hunt the styes of Space,
And send their vassals far,
To furnish for that vacant place
Fit waistcoat globular.
Then him they chose is furnished there
With feeding-trough of gold ;
He sniffs the viands, rich and rare,
Our cook-like Premiers mould.
He turns the heap all-satedly
With snout and cloven paws,
And we do stand bare-head to see
Them masticate our Laws.
The Bills prepared in many days
They rend in seconds few,
And O, ’tis sad to see us gaze
And see the monsters chew.
They are the Things we bow to while
They tread our Law-crops flat;
The blackened Yarra is our Nile,
Our Pharaoh’s name is Fat,
Within a Chamber sanctified
They wallow in their pens,
And O ! we show with fearful pride
Our House of Abdomens !
VIC.
GRANT HERVEY.
DRYBDALE’S ANTIBILIOUS PILLS
for biliousness, indigestion, headache, loss of appetite,
giddiness, &c., are prescribed by physicians of the highest
standing, who acknowledge their thorough efficiency in
all cases. 1/1 per box, post paid. F. J. Timbury,
chemist, Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane.*
H.M. : Have you ever noticed the
wide, faded, misfit raiment of R.C, boy-sliepherds?
For economic reasons, it seems, they are ex-
pected to fill the cast-off clothes of superior
shepherds grown fat in the service.
A Melbourne sneak-thief struck an un-
usual snag or whirlwind t’other day. The
landlady of a Bourke-street pub. was surprised to
see a man rushing through her premises carrying
a large parcel. On stopping him, she "was
informed by the intruder that he had just stolen
a parcel from a cart and was trying to get away
with it. The landlady thereupon grappled with
him, and threw him on his back. On his rising,
she threw him again. Next round, he threw the
landlady, but she was soon up again, and got the
man on the floor and sat on him. She remained
on top for some time, but the under-manned
police force didn’t come, and the under dog
became desperate, crawled from beneath the
fedjand fled, leaving behind him a blown Mrs.
"public-house and a stolen parcel. Woman is
becoming a formidable social and political institu-
tion these days.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It dri\es away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Ib. bottles. Made in London. *
One of the funniest visitors to Melbourne
Income Tax Office was the presiding priestess at
perhaps the best-known of all the suburban
temples of Venus. She called to protest against
certain deductions being disallowed, and claimed
her schedule—made out appropriately on the
form marked “Personal exertion’’—should be
accepted. The department took exception to the
fact that she had deducted large sums expended
on wearing apparel, cosmetics, and perfumery
under the list “ Outlay entered into for the pur-
pose of obtaining money,” and she came to argue
her pomt. For a full hour the lady of pleasure
pointed out that were she running a greengrocery
instead of a resort of sin, she would cer-
tainly not waste her money on silk petticoats and
lace underwear, while plain cocoanut oil would
probably suffice for the adornment of her hair
instead of peroxide at 10s. 6d. a bottle. “ It’s a
damn|robbery, ” she asserted at length. “Do you
think I’d wear shoes like those if I hadn’t got to
and silk openwork stockings at 7s. 6d. if I was a
respectable woman?” The blushful official,
fearful of further examples of the sad lot of the
?«au er ’ s f ruc k his bell for a messenger.
bhow this lady into the next room,” he said
tactfully, “she wants to pay her tax.” “No, she
doesn’t, and she’s not going to,” cried the woman
scorned. “Do I understand you won’t allow
these deductions?” “No, madam, we will not,”
he replied weakly. “Then,” she announced,
catching up her skirts and exposing five distinct
petticoats in five distinct colors, “I’ll see Mr.
” (a very, very prominent politician), “and
you take my tip for it, he’ll give you the sack.”
So saying, she bounced off to write a letter to the
daily papers, showing how the income-tax stifles
the industries of the country and drives away
capital.
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28, Shoe-
lane, London, England.*
“Ranger’’ Guns
made to our order by the Remington Arms
Co. Am.
9- Hollis & Sons’
D.8.8.L., with Hammers.
Sale Old
Price Price
No. 6721, Twist Barrels, &0.... £3 10s £4 10s
No. H. 205, Bar-action, &c. ... £4 10s £5
No. 11.206, Treble Bolt ... £5 £6
Single Barrel Collector’s Gun £2 5s £2 15s
Ga.hmore’s Guns
D.8.8.L., with Hammers. Have an untar-
nished reputation all over the World. Write
for a Descriptive Catalogue. Only a few left.
Ghas. BosweTs Guns
are of the best quality,
largely used at the traps :
Sale Old
Price. Price.
With Hammers £l5 £lB
Hammerless ... £27 £4O
New Remington No 6
Take-down Rifle, Single
Shot.
Sale Price, 15s.
Old Price, 20s.
REVOLVERS
Webley’s No. 2
320 cal.
Sale Price, 40s.
Old Price, £2 10s.
Webley’s No M.P.
450 cal.
Sale Price, 455.
Old Price. £2 15s.
N
W F 3
S
You will find Quotations for
many different makes of
GUNS - RIFLES
descriptions are not full, but
write for details to
McLean Bros. & Rigg
LIMITED,
who are selling off their entire
stock of everything. New pre-
mises in which to finish their
Clearing Sale have been leased
for a short time.
279 Lonsdale Street,
Melbourne.
Bull’s Eye Rifle
for '22 cal. ammunition,
an accurate shooter and
well made in every respect.
Sale Price, 9s 6d
Old Price, 13s
Cartridges
Sale Old
Price. Price.
Cannonite ... 9s. 11s.
U.M.C. Nitro
Club ... 9s. 10s
Southern Cross 7s. Bs.
Witton
(Rabbit) 6s. 7s.
McLEAN BROS. & RIGG, LTD.
279 LONSDALE STREET, MELBOURNE.
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company,
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY ? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia. £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms whc say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
-*ent. more for your requirements.
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redferm, SYDNEY
wim si*k(;i \i, \ O . g
£3 18/6
Owlircred at any Wharf „ r
K.S.W. Rail nays, siation
£lO 10/-
ar
Should you require a Ring, no matter whether it
be an Engagement, Dress, Wedding, Keeper, or
Signet Ring, this is the place where you can see a
boundless Stock of all the best at reasonable prices.
Our London House being situated in the heart of
the Diamond Market (Hatton Garden) means low
prices to us and you on Diamond Rings.
18c. Gold and 3
£i 10s.
18c. Gold Keepers, 21s,
255, 30s, 40s, 455.
RINGS OF BEAUTY
Diamond Half-Hoop En-
gagement Rings, £5 53
to £4O.
18c. Gold Wedding Rings
21/, 25/,30/,35/,40/, 50/,60/
RADIANT OPALS....
Sparkling with red, blue and green flames of color,
ever changing as the wearer moves about, fascina-
ting Stones truly. We have a range of patterns
that will delight you. Prices Moderate Always.
No. 11.—9 c. Gold. £1 6b
No. 8.—15 c. Gold, £2 10s.
No. 2.—15 c. Gold, £2 IQs.
!fc,
No. 14.— Lily of the
Valley, £5 15s.
No. 6.—15 c. Gold, £2l2s 6d.
No. L—lsc. Gold, £1 12s 6d.
No. 10.—9 c. Gold, 14s 6d.
No. 6.—15 c. Gold, £1 17s 6d.
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE .
POST FREE. .
Captivating Styles
in BROOCHES . .
Fashioned daintily and set with the choices*
of Pearls in strong settings of Isct. Gold.
The designs are such as you won’t see
elsewhere, and we think you will admit
they are very dainty, —y
No. F4543.—£4 10s.
No. F4851.—£3 15s.
No. F593.—£5 10s.
No. F4541.—£3 15s.
No. F2253.—£2 15s
No. 544.—£2 7s 6d.
No. F4545.— £4 16s.
No. E 9414. —£2.
No. F 4551. —£3 15s
No. F4842.—£2 17s 6d
9c. Gold Swallow, Harp or Crescent Centre,
lCs 6d.
No. F 2252. —£1 15s.
Illustrated Catalogue
Post Free*
3
No. F 1945. —£2 2s.
No. 555.—£4 4s
No. F4544.—£5 ss.


The Bushland and Her Child.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Bushland watched her poet son, and loved
him as he grew ;
She filled his mind with holy thoughts when all
his dreams were new.
Said she: “I have a priceless gift for songsters
who are young—
A fairy harp with roses decked, and golden
threadlet strung.”
She handed him her priceless gift—the gift that
thousands crave,
The harp that plays to mystic airs that live beyond
the grave;
He knelt before her splendid throne in joyfulness
and smiled,
And twain they spoke in whispers soft— the
Bushland and her child.
Said she : “Go forth, O youthful one, through all
the land and sing,
And whisper me the cadences a million breezes
bring,
The melodies they waft along, the dreamy airs
they sigh,
The croonings of the lazy wind that passes slowly
by.
“Goforth beyond the sordid few, and sweetly
sing to me
Of all the joys that lie beyond the pale of
drudgery,
The glories of the rising sun, his sinking softly
down
In gleaming seas of gold beyond the furthest
mountain’s crown.
“ Of scenes beneath a dreaming moon, the splen-
dors of the stars,
The restless roving mountain streams that drone
across the bars,
The wilderness of frond and fern where countless
creepers twine —
Of everlasting glories in dominions that are mine.
“Go forth and take this gift of mine, a fairy
harp, and strung
With threads of gold, and gaily decked, and let
your songs be sung.”
He took the Gift in thoughtless mood from her
who had beguiled
With promises and flattery a vain, unthinking
child.
And forth.he went, a wanderer, where youthful
fancies turn—
Through glories ’neath the moon and sun and all
the stars that burn,
In verdant vales, by mountain crags, and spark-
ling lakes and streams;
For Li'fe was young with rainbow tints, and rich
with splendid dreams.
Once more he stood before her ; but the fire that
burned of old
Within his youthful breast had died and left it
dark and cold.
“Oh ! mother mine,” he sadly cried, “this truth
has come to me :
That he who’d sing your dearest songs might die
in penury.
“You handed trie a useless gift that all creation
scorns ;
You decked my harp with roses, and —you set
my way with thorns ! ”
He heard a laugh—a cruel laugh—and saw a lip
that curled ;
Aside he flung his fairy harp, and faced the
great, grey world.
N.S.W.
GILROONEY.
The Wooing of Edward Riley:
A Story of Vandemonia.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Across the white-grass plain a creaking box-cart,
drawn by a shaggy, despondent-looking horse,
slowly approached the darkening forest. In the
cart, on a chest of stores, sat a hopeless-faced
woman.
The master and the man were digging a hole for
a gate-post. That is, the man, William Broome,
assigned servant, was digging, and the master,
Mr. Caleb Lefever, emigrant, lounged against the
already-erected post chewing black twist.
“ Ain’t it deep enough yet?”
“Naw.”
The late October evening was sweet with the
scent of sassafras bloom ; two young voices from
the milking yard mingled with the songs of the
bush birds; and from the rocks of the Tiers the
great shadows began to creep downwards towards
the plains. A pink-breasted robin fluttered to
the top of the gate-post and peered round the
master’s shoulder into his face with its innocent,
beady eyes. What it saw there must have dis-
gusted it, for it flew down and perched on a clod
of earth beside the toiling man. He looked at it
and smiled. The bird was reassured. It pounced
on a worm behind the clod and flew joyfully away
with the prize. Broome never forgot that robin.
“ Ain’t that cursed hole deep enough now?”
“Naw.”
Suddenly the chorus of the birds was drowned
in a discordant cataract of feminine screams, as a
slip of a girl came racing down from the yard,
shrieking and laughing alternately.
“What’s the matter with yer, yer fool?”'
growled Lefever.
“Oh, oh, oh ! Father, father, father! Ha, ha,
ha, ha ! ”
you she-devil,” said Lefever, catching
her and shaking her violently, “or I’ll cut the
hide off yer.”
“Oh, oh, oli ! Ted kissed me—oh, oh, oh!”'
and she laughed hysterically.
E EfeeS! &
and some milk slopped over the edge. At tms
moment Lefever appeared at the d " 0 -L wlth t g gJJe
“You clumsy dog, he said,
oath; “I’ll teach you to waste good milk, and
fi ß d iiey jumped a foot into the air spun round
twice, and, still keeping a hold on the bucket, fell
face down on the gravel. ... ~ j
Lefever put the gun back intheeJottage, and
then walked leisurely down the path. As he
passed the hoy’s body he stirred it with his foot.
There was no response. Then he raised his tiger-
yellow eyes and fixed them on Broome, standing
shoulders-deep in the post-hole, his face a grey-
gr»eWe must deepen that hole,” said the mur-
derer, hoarsely, taking a step forward.
Broome sprang to the surface, a look of terror
in his eyes, and grasped the iron-shod rammer.
“By Gord, master,” he said, if ya cooms a fut
nigher a’ll drop ya ! ” . ,
‘‘Come Bill,” said Lefever, in a softened
voice, “ what ails you, man ? I only want you to
deepen that hole.” . ... .
“ Deepen it ya’sef,” said the man. A cawnt
trust ya—ya dawg ! ”
They stood looking at one another. _
“ It’s growing late,” said Lefever, I hear the
box-cart at the ford. Come, Bill, we re both in it
—both, d’yer hear ? Help me to deepen the hole.
Broome regarded him with horror.
“Deepen it ya’sef,” he said, doggedly. xa
needen be a-feared o’ me I A’m no murderer,
thank Gord.” , . , ~ A
Lefever seized the spade, with an oath, ana
leaped into the hole. ,
It was quite dark when the hopeless-tacea
woman drove up in the box-cart. She called out
for Ted to take the horse.
“Ted’s cleared,” said Lefever, shortly.
“ What did he clear for?” There was ever a
suspicion of fear in her voice when speaking to
her lord and master. ~ _ ,
“He spilt the bucket of milk, said Lefever,
“ and I clouted him for it, and he cleared.”
“ For that ? ” The tone was as incredulous as
she dared make it. ,
“Yes, for that,” snarled her savage husband.
“Don’t stand gaping there. Get inside and stir
that little strumpet up to get supper, Or 111
quicken the two of yer.” .
Mrs. Lefever found her daughter crouched in a
corner of her sleeping-room, trembling with
terror. She put her lips close to the girl’s ear :
“ Nellie, where —where is Ted ? ”
For answer the girl clasped her round the neck.
They felt near and dear to one another then—if
never before. . ,
That night at supper Lefever glowered at the
three who sat together, bound by an unvoiced
tie; mother and daughter, white-faced and
trembling; the convict watching the murderer as
an experienced keeper watches an untrained tiger
that has smelt blood.
For a fortnight matters continued in this state
with.little variety. Every morning Lefever
remarked sullenly: “I must go and report that
young hound to-day ; he’s had plenty of time to
get back.” Yet ail day he .sulked round the
place watching the others. But on the fifteenth
morning he saddled the horse. ~
“Don’t ye leave the house till I come back,
he said to Broome: “and keep your eye on the
others, d’ yer hear ? ”
“ ’Ees,” said Broome.
The convict watched him out of sight, then ran
like a deer up the hill to a sandstone rock. From
this rock a particular bend in the road to the
township was visible a mile from the clearing.
Eyes as keen as a hawk’s kept guard over that
bend until a dull object passed slowly across the
grey streak and disappeared. >
“’E’s a-gawn slow,” muttered the hawk; a
can dew ut.”
In two minutes Broome had burst into the
kitchen where the two wretohed beings sat over
the fire. . ,
“Missus,” he said, “A’m gawn to gie ya t
orfice. Bolt! —d’ ya hear me ’—bolt! A’d take
ya masef, on’y a’ve bizness. Keep arf t’ road-
stick to tha crick. ’Twill bring ya oot. Y’ve
three hours. Twig ? Bolt l an’ good luck t ya.
Mr. Lefever was inexpressibly shocked on
meeting William Broome as he rode into the
township that morning. .
“What the hell are you doing here?’ he
inquired. Broome grinned.
“What am a’ doin’? Whoy, a’ wants ma
dischawge ; ’n’ a’ wants ma stoof ; that’s what
a’m a-doin’ ’ere, ma-aster. ”
“You skulker!” swore Lefever; “I’ll
take ye to the station—l’ll”
“ Naw ya wunt,” said William. “ Coom aside,
mun ; a want to tell ya summat!' ”
“Tell, and be damned!” said Lefever,
savagely. , . ,
“Tha wer’ a witness to that there burym.
“It’s a lie, you dog,” said Lefever, but his lips
turned white.
“It’s naw lie,” returned the convict steadily.
“ When ya wer’ draggin’ tha por body to tha
hole, a’ seed Nellie a-look.in’ throw the windy at
ya.”
“Not so loud, you devil!” said Lefever,
hoarsely ; “they’ll hear you.” Some men ivefe
passing. ;
“A’j wants ma dischawge,” said Broome,
sullenly, “ ’n’ ma stoof, ’n’ ma charackter, ’n’ a’
means ta have ’em.”
“All right, Broome” —he could hardly form
the words—“ I’ll do the business for you. I—l’ve
been expecting you all' the morning.”
“Ya cur ! ” said Broome. Lefever trem-
bled in the saddle.
It was dusk when Lefever rode up to the stable
and let his horse go. There was a peculiar still-
ness about the place. When he entered the
•cottage the ticking of the clock sounded like
hammer-strokes on liis brain. The rooms were in
disorder, telling of a hurried departure. Still he
would not believe, but went outside and shouted.
His voice echoed against the sandstone cliffs, and
the silence seemed to deepen. He returned to
the cottage, barred the doors, and producing a
bottle of rum from his pocket, drank himself into
oblivion. The subsequent week’s debauch of Mr.
Caleb Lefever on the “ Plains” is still a pleasant
memory to the oldest inhabitant. He treated
rich and poor alike. The whole district was
drunk for a week on rum. When funds ran dry
the cause of all the joy was put on his horse and
fifty blue and red devils chased him home.
It was late evening when Lefever staggered
towards the unfinished gateway. There was a
figure digging round one of the posts. Lefever
went to the Wood heap for the axe, and creeping
■stealthily up dealt the figure a terrific blow. The
■axe struck the ground and the Thing went on dig-
ging. It looked like Biley. Lefever carefully
measured the distance and struck again. This
time the axe glanced off the post, and the Thing
continued with great composure. It looked such
a queer object, with one side of its hat cut away,
pegging along at apparently nothing, that Lefever
laughed. The Thing looked up and grinned. It
was Riley. It only had half a face, and looked
more comical than ever. They both laughed.
Then the old dread came over Lefever, and to
avoid the Thing he stepped to the other side of the
post. There was another Riley at that side, also
digging. Lefever was annoyed, and decided to
leave them in possession. He fastened the cottage
door behind him, and after some trouble found
the slush-lamp, which he lighted. A third Riley
was sitting at the kitchen table. A dreadful sense
of suffocation began to oppress Lefever. He
backed slowly out of the room, locking the door
after him, and crept fearfully into Nellie’s room
at the back. Riley number four was standing by
the bed. With an awful yell the murderer
dropped the lamp and sprang at the Thing’s throat.
He missed it, shot beyond it, and crashed head
first into the slab wall beyond. The lamp had
rolled against some old papers and rags at the foot
of the bed, and the liquid fat formed a little
river of flame which slowly advanced towards the
middle of the room ; and in ten minutes the place
was a roaring furnace. When, from information
received, the police rode up to the “farm,”
nothing remained of the cottage but the stone
chimney, and a long search failed to bring the
mystery of Lefever’s demolished homestead to
light.
Then one William Broome was “ wanted.” For
some reason Lefever never reported Riley as
missing; it was, therefore, generally supposed
that he had perished with the rest of the family
in the flames. Broome promptly reported himself
at the station. His own statement to the police
on the occasion of his discharge from Lefever’s
service, also the fact of the latter’s presence in the
township on that and subsequent days, were direct
evidence in the convict’s favor. He also accounted
for every hour after he left the “ Plains ” ; and he
was discharged.
Nearly sixty years after an old man named
Broome confessed to a mate most of what is
written here. He said that Nellie Lefever never
saw the burial from the window. That was
Broome’s invention to intimidate Lefever; but
Nellie had heard the gun and guessed the rest.
Mrs. Lefever ultimately became insane, and for
many years, in a certain asylum, she crept slowly
round a walled yard inquiring for “Ted.” It
was the last word on her lips as she died.
TAB.
O. H. READ.
1
,o.v
sm
i
PD
CORSETS
>♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦<
The Recognised Standard
High-Glass Corsets
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦<
LATEST SPECIALTY
STRAIGHT FRONT
NOUVELLE FORM
Obtainable from Leading
Drapers Everywhere.
Avoid Inferior Imitations, and that
each pair bears the Manufacturer’s “Trade
Mark ” on band inside, as above.
&
X
OUR Stock of Jewellery, Watches,
Solid Silver and Electro-Plated
Ware is the finest in Australia.
Goods forwarded without delay or
trouble to the purchaser, to all parts of
the Commonwealth.
Illustrated Price Lists and full par-
ticulars forwarded post free on applica-
tion.
13 HUNTER BT., SYDNEY;
AND
118 Queen Straet, Brisbane.
GUARANTEED THE HIGHEST QUALITY
TOBACCO
DARK.noUGHT PLUG
ALSO
4ozTIN S


Ladies in the Engine-Room.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Let’s stand back here by the boilers
Watch ’em through the open door
Trippin’ round with shoe-heels tappin’
On the noisy, iron floor.
(Mine’s the small ’un with the giggle,
Pointin’ like a semyphore.)
See the chief, all teeth and whiskers,
Showin’ ’em the way she goes.
(What about that one that’s solemn,
With the cunnin’-lookin’ nose?)
Hear their packin’ swishin ’ I swishin'!
What a blessed lot of clothes !
Shut up, Kid, yer breezy swearin’—
Where ye bin ? Be like a tomb.
Stand in here between the boilers—
They can’t see us in the gloom.
’Tisn’t every day there’s ladies
Strollin’ round our engine-room.
Now, they’re goin’ down the tunnel,
(Mine’s the little ’un as yet—
Makes good steamin’, pretty motion;
Keeps her coal bill down, I bet)
Ain’t the chaperong a monster ?
She’d drive through it —drippin’ wet.
Now they’ve stopped, and Mac is tellin’
How the Yank was killed last year
When his pants caught in the shaftin’,
Kind o’ cloth that wouldn’t tear.
Yankee Bill, he went to glory—
That was Yankee Bill’s affair.
Wish the “chief” would tell ’em other
Yarns about the flamin’ things—
Tell ’em what we’ve got to hang to
When we’re oilin’ and she swings—-
How it’s lovely in the tunnel
When the shaftin’ bends and springs.
Never mind ! They’re only women I
Very likely good ’uns too —
And they’ll never rightly savvy
What us hot-house blossoms do—
Real good women—proper women—
Much too good for me and you.
* * * *
“ Yes, sir ! Yes’m ! Them’s the boilers—
Double-ended boilers, mum.
When we’re goin ? Yes, it’s sultry.
Yes, at times we do sweat some.
Have to stoop here—them’s the bunkers;
Through here’s where the trimmers come.
“ No, miss ! No ! It never hurts us—
Easy sort of work for men.
(Seems to want to ask me questions)
Men get scalded ? Now and then.
Wouldn’t do for you to try it—
Might feel faint-like, now ’n’ again.”
* * * *
Sick of lookin’ at the boilers,
They stepped dainty through the door,
And I hear the shoes a-clickin’
On the soundin’ iron floor,
And their patent packin’ swishin’—
Hope to God there ain’t no more !
M.L.
WILL LAWSON.
The Horse-Breaking Electrician.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The man from Riverina smoked reflectively :
“ We had a chap at Burrabogie once that could
break in horses. His name was Mac Jones, but
we christened him Necessity, because he was the
father of so many inventions.
“The wilder the noddies were, the better he
liked the contract of breaking them in—used to
say it showed what he called ‘ ther complete domi-
nation of intellect over brute strength.’ He made
a special study of jibbing horses, and could tell
one at sight, and for years had gone on bringing
out all manner of curious contrivances to cure ’em.
“But his greatest invention killed him,” said
the man from Riverina, sadly. “It was like
this : He got an electric battery up from Sydney,
and he fixed it and a lot of wires and coils and
plates and things under the seat and about the
shafts of the long breaking-in gig. What took
the eye most about the thing, though, was a wire
about five feet long with a sponge on ther end
of it.
“This, he said, would shift Satan himself, if he
jibbed between the shafts, and he explained that
no hoss would keep on jibbing if he found hisself
backing up agen something that stung like ten
acres of nettles.
“Moroney, our storekeeper, had a mare that
absolutely refused to go past the station gates,
and Necessity undertook to cure that mare. He
took Billy, the black boy, with him and called him
his ‘electrician.’ M’oath ! that nig. was proud—
he’d as much as he could do ter keep from switch-
ing the current on, goin’ down ther drive.
“However, at ther gates she stops short and
sudden, and Billy got ther word ter make her git.
The shafts were long, so Billy got out over the
front-board and touched her smartly.
“ Guess Billy’d have hung on with his teeth and
claws if he had known how that mare liked bein’
electrocuted. He turned three somersaults, and
when he struck the ground the gig was out of
sight.
“ We carried Billy up to the house, and he come
round in about four hours, just as they were
bringing Necessity and the mare, quite cured,
safely home. She’d run him into a mud tank, so
nothing was broke, ’cepting the mare’s habit o’
jibbiji’.
“Billy looked at the inventor coldly, and,
raising himself on his elbow, remarked senten-
tiously, ‘By gosh ! you get some other fool
do “ trisbuh’s ” work. That blanky fire-wire send
um marei to Sheol.’
“ As none of us would go with him, Necessity
was forced to make the thing more automatic, and
finally he brought it to such a pitch of perfection
that, when he pulled a string, the worst jibber in
Australi® went. Immediately he stopped pulling
anyinno'fn' ° Urlent WaS shut-off. lie was
on *-v.o 1 fre f i demonstrations, and we were all
on the look-out for him.
of a 2, neday ’ k°ng Jim, the boundary-rider, heard
ahnnf- on 6 ’ u re£d c^an J.Pi° n jibber, on a station
£hl“ des T. Way -, , He £ ot a day off to go and
swom htvi lr k .A 6 him tive days, and then he
wlv w d r a r to W l2B fires Ul >der her on the
TnH „ f V elleved him, as about four stations
that time d ° Zen Selectlons were burnt out about
on™ o /h C n°™ rSe ’ J “ h dn,t time to P ut the fires out
once the mare stai ; te d to move. He lit the last
Necnss l >v ng U . P th t h ° me horse-paddock, and
tl.“gfg ?o“5 y mad With deligl “ a,,d got
the',^ 01 !. as i th u mar , e a V rived we jammed her inter
she nh« ift. wken s . H3 .d gone ’bout twenty paces
twice ■f o f g °°i d r ll ' Necessity didn’t arst
" h e J us ,t reaches for that string, and then
nfne afc ’* h J lorse was by Streak Light-
“ingout of Slup-the-Moon.
of /q the fra g m ents of the station gates
vards d swn d “ s :, al though them gates was 300
him and the ast we saw of Necessity was
! f away over a bttle rise, making a
bee line fer Narrandera. 8
thltheM 6 !/ afterwards we read in ther papers
awnV dbmbunecl in a place about 150 miles
a^ ay ' ih ® boss went acrost ter make full in-
whp , w! nd hen he . come back he told us that
f o un d he still had the battery
had m hIS hand, and the mare
“ad broke em both up agen a tree.
Hilly the electrician, said Necessity ‘must
have forgotten ter pull that fire-rope off. ’
It were a pity he was killed, though: he’d
have coined some great ideas—my oath ! ”
JAMES F. DWYER.
In the Dark.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Feom our position of comparative comfort on the
skylight, we could, despite the darkness, watch
the movements of our fellow passengers who were
trying their sea-legs with little apparent success.
It was a little tumbling’ steamer bringing pas-
sengers from Mackay to meet the passing northern
and southern coasting-steamers.
One poor girl, travelling alone, narrowly escaped
a serious fall. As she was hastily retreating to
the side a sudden lurching movement sent her
staggering on to the iron-work, round which the
fierce wind blew her flimsy dress. She could
morve neither one way nor the other, and her slight
body was bumped from side to side. A man came
and released her, and gently helped her back to
the ledge near to us.
Having settled her comfortably he made no effort
to leave, but stood where he might act as a kind
of breakwind. Notwithstanding a very half-
hearted response from her, he managed to make
her listen to what he was saying. It was so dark
that only the dimmest outlines of her face and
figure were visible to him. Perhaps the darkness
made it easier for him to say what was in his
mind. We were lashed to our corner, and could
not help overhearing. He started to tell her the
story of his present journey.
For many years he had been engaged to a girl.
All Rockhampton knew it and his friends rallied
mm frequently on his allegiance to his absent
love, She lived in Mackay. By dint of working
hard and saving diligently he contrived to buy and
furnish a cottage for the girl. All being ready
he got leave of absence to go and claim the bride!
The night before he left, the Lake’s Creek boys (his
fellow workmen) entertained him at a smoke-night
and handed him a cheque to give the “ little girl”
from them. When he got to Mackay he found
her married to the proprietor of the Signalman’s
Hotel. He had gone casually in to get a drink
soon after he landed. Behind the bar stood the
girl he had come to marry—-a wedding-ring on her
finger.
* * * *
It was all so fresh still—his voice failed him as
he tried to speak of that interview. At length he
went on : “The reason. I have told vou this, Miss
is that I want you to help me. Will you marry
me ? I’ll be perfectly straight with you. I can’t
face the boys without a wife. Marry me and I
swear you’ll never regret it.”
The girl was mute, and the man went on his
voice deepening: “Perhaps I’m too hasty—come
to Rockhampton with me and I’ll pay your ex-
penses wherever you like to live for three months..
You will have a chance of getting to know me
You will be perfectly free, and 1 will ask youi
again at the end of the time. I could tell the:
boys you had been ill and the marriage had been
put off for three months.”
Still the girl hesitated, and a voice was heard!
saying, “Any more for the North—hurry up
please.”
“ Are you coming ? ” we heard the man say in
eager entreaty. “ Speak, girl, speak ! They are
waiting for us.”
That bald “us” ruined his chance. The
girl drew herself up. “No! no !” she said, “I
couldn’t possibly—go away at once.”
An ejaculation and the man was gone in the
darkness.
In the morning I caught a glimpse of the proud
maiden—a sallow, badly-dressed slip of a girl with
bright red hair. She was a sewing-girl returning
to Brisbane with her engagement not fulfilled,
through illness, and no money in her pocket.
I.J.K.
Estimated, according to a Minister of flfiei
Crown, that fully 200 of the returned soldiers w.lio
were billeted on the N.S.W. trams as guards had
to be dismissed owing to insolence, incompetonae
and similar offences.
Premier See's confidence that Earl Jarsey,
as temporary Agent-General, will, “because of
his great banking reputation,” strengthen the
financial position of N.S.W., reveals the same old
dodgy pauper at the back-door of Dives. “I’m
not a chronic pauper; I’m only temporarily in
need of a trifle.”
Mr. Bill Lyne is seemingly anxious to
bring into the Federal arena the petty, and
worse than petty, ideas of the “ ward ” politician
of America. Announced that in
a letter to the N.S.W. Minister for Works he takes
exception to the State member for the district being
informed of any public work which is to be carried out
for the Commonwealth.
Object—to degrade the Federal member into
the position of being a touter for post office
towers and “a good local member” generally.
Mr. Bill Lyne has had a vast experience in
dealing with the sort of member who so badly
wants a local work that he is ready to do almost
anything for it, and he seems to want to see that
sort of member in the Australian Parliament,
nil
mr.
k
\
r*
SICK and nervous headaches May aptly
be classed amongst the most dis-
tressing complaints that fall to the
lot of mankind. Bile Beans, by going
direct to the root of the evil-disordered
liver and digestive organs—have proved
singularly successful in curing these head-
aches, the latest illustration of which comes
from Mrs. S. A. Meters, of 18 Jarrett-st.,
Leichhardt, Sydney. This lady says “ I
have found your Bile Beans are an excellent
remedy for a disordered liver. At times
I have been so bad with Indigestion that
I did not know what to eat. My appetite
was considerably impaired, and although
at nights I have felt like having a good
sleep, I could not do so, and, in con se-
quence, felt completely done up during the day, and suffered agony with sick and
nervous headaches. I was induced to take your medicine by seeing an advertisement
wherein Bile Beans had cured a fellow sufferer, and can now say from my own experience
that Bile Beans are a perfect remedy for sick headache, loss of appetite, sleeplessness,
and those innumerable symptoms of a sick liver. I would now use no other medicine, and
always keep a box at hand for an emergency.”
BILK BEANS have now a world-wide reputation for curing BILIOUSNESS,
HEADACHE, INDIGESTION, CONSTIPATION, PILES, DEBILITY, FEMALE
WEAKNESSES, NERVOUSNESS, BAD BLOOD, PIMPLES, AND ALL SKIN
ERUPTIONS, BAD BREATH, ANJ2MIA, LOSS OF APPETITE, RHEUMATISM,
and by giving tone to the system will ward off COUGHS, COLDS, and INFLUENZA.
Bile Beans are obtainable from all medicine vendors. PRICE Is. Igd. or 2s. 9d.
LARGE BOX (contains three times Is. size).
■ v: -'
w
OZU ffIUKZ OZlil oocoui
■zmz.
m.
mm.
m
mm
■
■
m
mm
m
SMif HI
~V
rowfti
■
. m
mwmmm
-
wmm,
mt.
i.
■ i
§H%SI
1i" ■
gHßaaßt
ssss


Charlie Hugo, one of the best minstrels of his day-
a lon- a-o dav-is ending his career in Auckland
hospital. He has had a hard battle with *s v WityJwAfr
the last few years, and is now suffering from general
break-up. Johnnie Collins, variety artis ~ and. related b}
marriage to Hugo, is in the same institution with
paralysis. Priscilla Verne, who divorced Hugo, and *ho
is as gay and chirpy as ever, is now due in Murkato fulfil
an engagement.
An original melodrama, written by a local man, was
recently played at Unley (S.A.). There weretheunor.gi-
nal villain, with a black moustache, who said Ha, la.,
and remarked “A time will come’’; hero, the usual
person of noble descent quite unable to earn his own
living ; and heroine, who goes out, quite unnecessar
into a snowstorm minus any head-covering. The origy
nality presented itself in the last act. when the heroine
voluntarily and happily married the villain—who seemed
at least capable of earning a living, the useless hero being
killed out of the way.
“Theatre-goer” :Re your par. < on Edwin
alleged ill-luck and the iniquity of Donald M Donald
growing fat on his lecture tour, instead of remaining the
gaunt spectre who alarmed his friends on his arrival
from Africa one wet, cold, grey morning. Geach
re-arded Lecturer JPDonald as a mascot, and the tour
throughout a pleasant and restful experience. The war
correspondent was tame and docile. There were none of
the rows and troubles incidental to big companies and
their managers. Trebelii was another star that twinkled
all right for the popular Edwin. His worst venture was
Dante, who was killed shortly after the commencement
of a successful tour.
"Bunny”:'The German opal-buyers in White Cliffs
are not popular citizens, though they are extremely well-
conducted men. \ Attended a performance the other
night in the Mechanic’s Institute. Performer was the
late Dante’s brother (so the hideously-colored play-bill
said> Just as the curtain went up, Messrs. Saurkraut,
La-er, Tonner, Blitzenwhistlen and Co., sat flown in re-
served seats. Then the push at the back rebelled. They
yelled, “ Too plue, too plue, Blank, Dash, Sausage, Saur-
kraut,” &c. Performance was delayed 10 minutes. ‘‘Too
plue ” is what the German opal-buyers say when they
do not like the opal submitted.
A new adaptation'of “No Thoroughfare,” by Wilkie
Collins and Dickens, is a result of the boom in Dickens
dramas. This will set J. C. Williamson thinking of bis
very young days, prior to the birth of “ Struck,. Oil,
when he was a dialect and “broad” comedian in an
American co., and Joey Ladle was one of his parts.
Perhaps if he thinks long enough about it, J.C.W. may
persuade himself to produce the new “No Thoroughfare ’
play, and revive himself as Joey Ladle for the fi-rst time
in Australia. Why not?
News of Dan Godfrey’s death recalls to mind Biondi’s
picture of Daniel in hi's imitations of orchestra conductors
at Rickards’ some years ago. The Cockney bandmaster
was represented as conducting one of bis trumpery old
waltzes—“ The Mabel in a starchy military style, with
much shaking of the head whilst he wagged his baton.
Dan Godfrey, 72 when he died, dated back to the darkest
age of London dance music. Thirty years ago people
waltzed to the see-saw tunes of Dan the Guardsman, and
thought them sweetest melodies. They ruled alike at
Court balls and shilling ‘ hops.’ So simple and “ catchy. ’
Boys whistled them in the London streets, and doggerel
verses of an improper character were chanted to their
measure—six syllables to the line. Then a German com-
poser of waltz music—a comparatively deep and soulful
jir.gler named Strauss —came to the fore with his “Blue
Danube” Waltz, and the feeble songs of the Cockney soldier
com noser suffered a total eclipse. But he remained an
institution, and by request of Queen Victoria old Dan was
kept in his place of bandmaster to the Grenadier Guards
up to 1896, and took the rank of Honorary Second
Lieutenant at her Jubilee.
A mummer’s yarn : Fisher wasn’t his rijrht name, but
that doesn’t matter. Fisher and I were pals—pals down
in luck—the truest of pals ;at least Fisher said so.
Fisher in those bad days, even declared Jie’d share his
last drink with me. Each of us had a dirty room m
a dirty lodging-house, in a dirty Sydney street. But wo
oughtn’t to complain, considering. Returning un-
expectedly from my bath one morning I dis-
covered Fisher in my room. He looked guilty ( of theft.
“Now, what have you been taking, Harry/ I asked ,
whereat he naturally answered, “ Nothing, arid went on
fastening'a snow-white collar rouhd his neck. But *
suspicion attacked me when I observed an end of a dirty
collar sticking out of his pocket. I took a step towards
him, placed my hand on his shoulder, looked into his
blue eves, put some emotion into my voice, and said,
broken’v “ Harrv, I didn’t think you’d lie cad enough to
steal a pal’s last dollar.” “My dear Beau,” he answered,
“ I had no intention ot. beating you for it ; I only in-
tended to exchange it for my dirty one. They’re adver-
tising for panto, artists to-day. I was going down to
apply. Hadn’t a clean collar. That’s all.” I lectured
him, bringing up trivial kindnesses I had in my time
done him—trivial kindnesses that, in nyy “ eloquence,”
I made appear mountainous. My oration affected him
much. “ Beau,” he said, “ you are right in rebuking me,
old man. I’m always imposing upon your good nature.
Here, take your c 'liar, dear boy,” and he threw it on my
bed, and then slipping a pair of cliffs off his arms,
continued—“ and these too. They’re yours. I took ’em
out of the same drawer as the collar.” Together we went
to the Royal—l with a clean collar, he with clean cuffs—
and were engaged at 25s a week for the parts of a dragon
and an elephant’s hind legs respectively.
One of the minor mysteries of Melbourne has just been
cleared up. For several weeks past midnight revellers in
the very centre of the city have been alarmed by wild
shrieks, evidently from a female, proceeding from the
Town Hall. On the first occasion the police were them-
selves alarmed by cries of distress - apparently the last
endeavors of some damsel to save her honor or her life.
Four powerful constables battered on the door of the
hall while a sergeant kept his thumb pressed against
the electric-bell button until an angered caretaker,
arose from his warm bed to walk about a quarter
of a mile along chilly tiled corridors in his bare
feet to open the door. Followed b.v the shivering care-
taker in his pyjamas, the police scoured the building
from the tower to the basement, hut not a sign of the
suffering woman could be found. After two hours,
during which time all the surrounding beats were left to
the mercy of the burglar, the police were forced to leave
the building unsatisfied. The following night, about the
same time, the same wild shrieks were repeated with
increased vigor. The caretaker was again aroused
and another search made, but without avail. A
third night, Melbourne was once more horrified, and
the people began to wonder whether Sam Gillott, of
the Tossum Rug, had a secret chamber in which
sorrowing maidens were immured. The united skill of
the police force at last decided upon concealing two of
its most astute detectives behind the curtains of the big
hall. The first ’tecs, allotted to the job threatened to
hand in their resignations, memories of the banshees of
their native land being too st rong. At last two Australian
agnostics were chosen. Holding their breath they
waited until the witching hour, and then, sure enough,
their agnostic blood was frozen by the yells which seemed
to proceed from some tortured female only a few
feet away. Grasping their revolvers tightly, the
detectives struck a light and found nothing. At that
moment there was another howl, unmistakably from
the end of the hall. For the instant, they were about to
stampede in panic. Then, the thing explained itself.
The Town Hall organ is in a dreadful state of disrepair,
and the mechanism has of late developed a way of going
off by itself and emitting weird howls when the vox
humana stop happens to give way simultaneously with
something else.
Martin’s Apiol arid steel pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia. Not genuine
without the signature. Be sure you get Martin’s.
Sole proprietor, W. Martin, pharmaceutical
juthampton, England.*
f e
Lime Fruit Juice
The basis of which is “Montserrat” Lime-Fruit Juice.
Far Superior to
all otHer Sauces.
AGENTS— Elliott Bros. Ltd., J. Connell & Co., D. Mitchell & Co., Sydney.
D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.
Beady on Ist
SUCH IS LIFE I
SUCH IS LIFE !
SUCH IS LIFE!
A new book in The
Bulletin Library.
A story of Riverina’s
early days.
handsome cloth,
decorated: price,
6d,
Send postal note or
stamps to
The Bulletin office,
and the book will be
posted to any address
immediately on pub-
lication.
TOM COLLINS
TOM COLLINS
TOM COLLINS
Bulletin Newspaper Company, TAmited, Publishers.
WHOLESALE AGENTS —New South Wales and Queensland : Edwards, Dunlop, & Co., Ltd.
Victoria : Tub George Robertson Proprietary, Ltd,
South and Western Australia : E. S. Wioe & Son.
Auckland and District : Wildman, Lyell & Arey.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
PILLS
IT OR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cos'dveness, Blotches on the Skio, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRS'L DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be " VV OR-.H A
GUINEA A BOX.” ...... mv,
BEECH A M’S PILLS, taken as directed', will quickly restore females to complete health, ihey
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion. Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite,
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the' Whole Physical Energy of the human frame, i
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best gii&rantees
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beerham’s Pills have the Largest Sale oj any Patent Meat
he ivor/d. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECSAM, St. Selens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is ljd, and 12s 9d each.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
HIS MAJESTY
THE KING.
MOIR'S
“MAYFAIR”
TABLE-JELLY
25
"Made in half-
a-minute by
the mere ad-
dition of boil-
ing water-"
wrnTD X, nnw LTD LONDON, ABERDEEN and SEVILLE.
a,,. 5 ,«„. _
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Corner Csorge & Market Sts., SYDNEY
The Best Luncheon in Town from ONE SHILLING, served from 12 sharp till 2.30;
t Dinner from 5.30 to 7.30, same price.
The Most Convenient Place for Ladies and Gentlemen visiting the Theatres to dine at.
N'B—Visitors oply pay for wbat tbcy actually ba^c.
TERMS.—The Convenient and Modern System of paying for a
room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
Apartments: BEDROOM, Single, 3s. per day ; Doable, 6s. per day.
ENGAGE ROOMS AT ROBERTS’ NOT€L, SYDUZY.
wftTß to ooBFPTS’ WINE end SPIRIT STORE, MARKET ST., next GEORGE ST.,
TVSiS USD COUNTRY OROERS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the Bast
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
M.D., C.M., L.R.C.P.E., L.R.
L.F.P.S.G., L.M., etc..
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great
Britain, Victoria, New South Wales,
The Eminent Specialist, whose unparalleled success in the Treatment of Blood and Nerve
Diseases has earned for him a reputation unequalled by any other Specialist in Australia, may be consulted
daily, personally or by letter, at “ ELMLEY HOUSE,-151 Ellxabeth-st., Sydney. Old and Obsolete
Methods discarded DR. MARTIN'S latest treatment has proved absolutely effective in all cases of Blood
! Affections, Puura.ysis, Loss of E„.r E „ Lung, M.ort, Skip .U
Chronic Diseases of Men and Women. His Consulting Rooms are replete with all the
latest and most scientific improvements in Electric Appliances, etc. Country Patients
treated by Correspondence at their own homes. Advice and Medicine, One
Pound All Sufferers should write for a copy of Dr. Martins Latest Medical Work,
“THE ‘ KNOX-MERCER ’ TREATMENT IN DISEASE.” This work should find a place in every
household, as it contains a full and explicit account of the Most Wonderful Treatment of the Present
A <r e It has been the means of Curing Thousands who followed out the instructions contained
therein This Marvellous Treatment Cleanses and Rejuvenates the Whole System, and is the Cheapest
Treatment in Existence, as nothing but the Book is required.
Cheap Edition, Is. ; by post, Is. 6d.
“ Press Extracts ” posted free throughout Australia.
CONSULTING HOURS: 10 to 2 and 7 to 9 Daily.
“ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.


WATERPROOF COATS «» *
RUBBER BOOTS 18/6 to 20/..
GOLOSHES 2/6 to 4/e.
Carriage Free
to any part of
N.S.W.* if this
advertisement
is cut out and
sent with re-
mittance.
Made to wear—to
give satisfaction—to
look well to the end
of their long service.
See our Stock.
PERORIAU & CO.,
Only One Address-™ M « MANTS >
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CURIOUS
BOOKS
PHOTOS.
The Best Address for
English, French,
German
Books and Photos.
Apply—
-116 BOX, PARIS.
2/- for Catal. and Miniat.
WE SHIP ON APPHOVAL
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles. Fully warranted.
Latest
Models'
l tfW
Dunlop Tyres, Steel or Wood Rims,
tree Wheels, Mud Guards and Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID
To any Port in Australasia.
TYRES, ACCESSORIES,
Sporting Goods and Sewing
Machines Half Usual Prices.
Write for Catalogue and Special Offer
Using 2sd. Stamp. Address Dept 345 D
Chicago,
V.S.A.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
*2 & 34 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Australasian Representatives for
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK.
Boiler Feed Pump.
pr SEND FOR CATALOGUES
James Simpson & Co., Ltd. London and Newark.
Worthington Pump Company, Limited f London
Warren Webster & Co. New jersey.
Enquiries Invited for ......
Worthington Pumps
Webster Feed Water Heaters & Purifiers
Cincinnati Air Compressors
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
MARX.
WOLF
J. & J. MAXFIELD, Proprs., SHEFFIELD
At the Bhowrooms
EMPIRE CHAMBERS, 93 YORK-ST.,
SYDNEY
Alee at—
M TECB 8X.0C23E5:,”
Collins-St., MELBOURNE
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE,
Engineers & General Machinery Merchants.
s Woodworking Machinery, Empire Co.’s Laundry
Tools, “Atlas” Works Engines and Boilers.
Mil
:
'
1 i; i: '•
T%
gSas/"
60 Clarence
ALL KINDS OF
ENGINES & BOILERS
PUMPS,
MINING MACHINERY
And APPLIANCES,
ENGINEERS’ TOOLS & FITTINGS,
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY,
ETC., BTC.
T. M. GOODALL & CO.. 129 hay st.,
HAVE IN STOCK AND TO ARRIVE-
Portable, Traction, Vertical $k Horizontal Boilers,
Engineers and Mining Tools, Saw Mill Machinery, Pulleys, Belting, Etc
Irrigation and Pumping Plants a Specialty. New and Second-Hand Machinery always available.
SIZB, si" x Bfc" x 5".
®IT We are Direct Importers
AND HAVE FOR SALE—
Snow Duplex Pumps
(all sizes for all purposes),
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling
and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shaft-
ing, Hangers, Bearings, Collars, etc.
Engineers’ Tools and Fittings, Valves,
Cocks, Gauges, etc. Cast, Tool and
Mining Steel, Wire Ropes and all Requi-
sites for Contractors, Engineers, Saw
Mills and Mining Proprietors.
R. L. Scruttora 8t Co. Ltd.
97 CBarence*st., Sydney.
Deane Patent Sinking Pumps
Criton Pumps
Double Standard Centrifugal Pumps
Carye Donkey Pumps
PuiSOmeter Pumps, with patent Crel, which
effect large saving in steam.
Manufactured by
PULSOMETER ENGINEERING CO.,
READING, ENGLAND.
Agents
N. GUTHRIDGE, LTD.,
71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
STOCKS KEPT.
Tak®
V^SEED
»*
v.
** /
si h
«7 == r r -
tm
i/iiS 1,01
&tfw«
• I)
s»
or ah (JHEAMSTS
/ (TNiiousflouT Greatßrimin 4r« Colonies
ImuM CATMaRMcuM Pius M/wytaNt
• w ‘ CoaCULINE •
Transparent Cement for/vußroken Articles
