

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY,
PIG STOUT.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Parity.”
The Lancet
R. G. WA.TKIKTS «S£ CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
INSIDE BEARINGS.
FittiftgNo. 106 for Fast Wheels.
•pauQAU *spu»
*renba puis punoj msl^oixv
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG.
WONDERFUL VALUE—A packet of Seven different
articles, comprising Yankee Rubber Baby, can be carried
in vest pocket and blown out to life size (causes roars of
laughter), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
Coin and Card Tricks), the Wizard Fish (gives the defini-
tion of your character —very superior for parlor enter-
tainments), the Vest Pocket Tubular Microscope (very
useful for examining small objects), the Cinematograph
(or book of moving pictures), the great Yankee Bicycle
Puzzle (very ingenious), and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Disappearing Coin Trick (instruc-
tions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australia (Free) on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Hay market.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
710 George-st., Sydney.
X
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° 85 Htt street , SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for Samuel Osborn & Co., Sheffield, makers of Muehet’a Titanic Borer Steel for Miners’ Drills, Bessemer Steel, Cast Steel, Mushet’s
Self-Hardening Tool Steel, Mining, Well-Boring, Spring, and Tyre Steel, Steel Castings of all Descriptions, Steel Truck Wheels and Axles.
INDENTS EXECUTED, SPECIFICATIONS SUPPLIED FOR ALL KINDS OF MACHINERY.
—.STEEL CASTINGS, HAMMERS, FILES..—
“HERVEY’S RACKAROCK”
17 Years’
as a Standard Australian Exp'osive. Cor CLARENCE & KING STS.
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831. WHISKY.
HOBART.
ftadley’s Orient pel.
PR P P
■ rib b
BY POST, A MEDICAL
TREATISE bv that justly-
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST,
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address —
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.
s^riDzsriEY-
6Lg> co
— /cdolsQ i^tyyhr\Jl/&
Writes Dr. Andrew Wilson, F.R. C.S.E. , author of •*Health Notes,” London.
(PERFECT
Rs*. ,
* / wATERI
[assists
IGESTION
tSHOULD
| BE|
ICED
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowicl & Son, Ltd., 117 York St, Sydney
TTSSITn - i
SPOONEE’S
&
3533
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
universal, cream
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and la.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
Mining and Dredging Plants. Engines, Boilers, &c.
Fowler Traction Engines.
Ihe Clyde Engineering C?t,Lt°
>
Desiccating Plants.
Hopper Waggons, &c.
SDE
PROOF
Ones
USE
Head Office:
10 BLICH ST., SYDN
El
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company,
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY ? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying- from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £o ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7 ;
3-Spring- Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia. £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and made
to Order HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 16 per
-ent. more for your requirements.
OCR SPECIAL Ne. 8
£8 18/6
Delivered at a»y Tfharf « r
8T.8.W. Railways, Statioa
£lO 10/-
Men I Why Remain Bald ?
D2NTWAIT
FSRTHIS
I am never tired of asking
you this question because I
know you needn’t remain bald
any longer
CAPULA
Hair
Tonic
is the remedy, and it’s a
remedy that will produce a
new growth of hair so long
as there is the slightest down
on the head.
All Chemists = - 2s. 6d. per bottle.
W. OLIVER RICHARDS, Sole Prcmietor, and
Inventor, City Bank Chambers, 164 Pit* -street
Sydney, N.S.W. -u. street,
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bum.etxn Writers. Cloth 300
pages; price, 4s. Gel.; postage, fid.
The Bulletin
Vol. 24.—N0. 1219.]
[Saturday, June 27, 1903.
Registered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Book trade Advertisement.
THE LATEST BOOKS AT
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Villas Contemporary Psychology, 12s Od, postage Is
Gaffvn (Iota), He'for God Only, 2s 6d, p. Od.
Green (A.K.), A Difficult Problem, 3s Od, p. 6d.
Tjppins, Miniature liifle Shooting, 2s 6d, p. 4d.
Max O’Rell, Rambles In Womanland, 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Mocking (Silas), A Bonnie Saxon, 2s 6d & Ss 6d, p. 6d.
Dawson, The Hidden Manna, 2s 6d & 3s tid, p. 6d.
Crosland, The Unspeakable Scot, Is 3d, p. 4d.
you Wont,
tlw
Send to us Jot any Booh 01 „ always pleaseto answer inquiries
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South oi King St.) & at Melbourne. Adelaide, Brisbane & London
For tlo.© LUKTGS, the
the
voice
. . THE : .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs ! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
o
A. The Larynx, or organ of
B. The°TpACHBA or
Q. The Bronchial Tunes o
dissected lung-
/». A lobe of one of lung s
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG
and
Invaluable to
oING ER
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered)
. Contain XO cocaine or other poisonous draff ■ . . d _po
SOLD BY ALL CHEM.STS, n Tins, 6d; from the Proprietor, G. &GO
free on receipt' of stamps.
Melbourne, Agents.
Sydney Depot: 5 and 7 QUEEN’!
THE RED PAGE.
Let us Irrigate.
I “Bob R.” : You say “In defiance of the proof
it China, India, and Americ'a; and in the teeth of the
Irought losses in Australia, there are still Australian
dockheads who deride the profit of irrigation.” What
ve do deride is the practicability of irrigation, unless on
i small scale— e.g., Jemalong. China, India, and America
ire specially favoured in what Australia lacks—rivers.
Che presence of numerous large and inexhaustible
itreams makes irrigation a matter of comparative ease
md small expense. A chain of waterholes, such as the
darling, Lachlan and Murrumbidgee are in drought-
lime, renders irrigation on a national scale a matter of
mpossibility or else of such enormous expense as to
rutweigh the advantages. Only t’ other day a township
rear the junction of the Lachlan and Murrumbidgee
•ose in wrath to protest against the use of the waters of
;he Lachlan for irrigation, when it could not ■get.suffi-
jient for domestic purposes ! Yet there are only three
small pumping stations on that alleged river. Irrigation
is a magnificent thing, provided there is plenty of water ;
without that, it is only a dream of theorists and a
“catch-vote” for politicians.
[lt is precisely because Australia (compara-
tively speaking, and in some places; lacks rainfall and
rivers, that irrigation is forced upqn her. She may irri-
gate from rain-catchment or flood-catchment where rivers
are “ a chain of waterholes ” ; but she must irrigate to
conquer. J
W.H.C. t For those who misunderstand irriga-
tion the case of the Rio Pecos may be cited. This
stream, rising in the eastern slopes of the Rockies, flows
through parts of New Mexico and Texas that comprise a
desert almost as desolate and barren as the Sahara. Like
the other rivers of the south-western portion of U.S.A. —
■where the rainfall is less than in our back country—the
Pecos is a capricious stream, being one week so dry that
its bed can be crossed without wetting the feet, and'a
fortnight later a muddy torrent almost to thg tops of the
banks. The construction of a big weir has resulted in
the establishment of a prosperous irrigation colony.
People came over and secured the sand patches that the
Govt, called land. Two hundred thousand acres are now
supporting in comfort a community of 100,000 people, who
have 500,000 cattle, almost .as many sheep, maintain one
of the biggest sugar-beet factories in America, grow cotton,
fruit and other produce in sufficient quantities to excite
the liveliest competition of railroad companies. That
river, compared with our never-failing, snow-fed Murrum-
bidgee, is a storm-sewer.
THAT WE MAY BREED MEN
In contrast on the lower Murray are two tracts o f
250,000 acres each—one a sheep station (Chowilla); the
other an irrigation colony (Renmark). At the present time
the 2&0j000 acres of Chowilla carry 5000 (live thousand)
sheep, and there is the owner and his family, and the
staff necessary 1 to attend to 5000 sheep: On Renmark
there are 3000 acres under irrigation, maintaining in
comfort and under fairly agreeable conditions a com-
munity of 1000 pepple.
When the pastoralists of N.S.W. were confronted with
the problem of hand-feeding the remnants of their flocks
they were net long in discovering that under the most
economical system that could possibly bp devised—-and
some of them, it is said, started with ofie straw a head—it
took at least (id. worth of purchased fodder Jier week to
provide tfie barest starvation ration. The points
N. A. Gatenby’s Work demonstrates are that—(l), by
having a small patch under irrigation (it’s a poor
50,000-acre station on which one cannot find one
60-acre patch of soil of the quality and situa-
tion essential for intensive irrigation) the pastoralist
can always provide for the preservation of his “stud.”
(2) While it will cost £250 a week to keep the merest
spark of life glimmering in 10,000 rams and ewes with
makeshift stuff like Argentine lucerne, maize, straw,
and molasses, a man, by taking advantage of even so
limited a water supply as the Lachlan unfortunately is,
can provide the very best of fresh food and keep the
flock in fair condition at a twelfth of the monetary out-
lay.
Irrigation is certainty not “a magnificent thing"
where there is plenty of water. Among all the famine-
stricken creatures on the face of the earth the inhabi-
tants of irrigated India and China, with their great
rivers, probably are at the tail of the procession. On the
other hand, when the irrigator has to pay through the
nose for every gill of water that is measured out to him
as carefully as wine, and that is in Riverside, California
and in Arizona, and many parts of irrigated
irrigation is a prosperous enterprise, which enables the
farmer to live in comparative luxury.
THUS, FOR EXAMPLE
The only thing that is Worse than aridity for farm
and fruit crops is excessive moisture. A watering of 22,000
gallons per acre(= 1 inch rainfall) will make lucerne
grow nearly a foot in a week. A watering of 100,000
gallons will drown it. The “ chains of ponds ” referred
to by “ Bob R.” send into Lake Alexandrina in a dry
year some 424,000,000,000 cubic feet,'and in a normal year
three times '-as much. A cubic foot equals 50 miners
inches, and a miner’s inch of water flowing into 5 acres
of land equals a rainfall of 3 inches per month or 36
inches per annum—more than any crop, bar watercress,
requires. j ,
At Mount M‘Donald, on the head of Lachlan River, a
weir costing (roughly speaking) A 1 ,250,000 will impound
12,500,000,000 cubic feet of water. This quantity, allow-.
ing for an annual evaporation of, say 4ft., and even in a
dry season, when the local rainfall does not exceed 10
inches, will provide sufficient water to irrigate 250,000 or
more acres with ,12 inches per acre, and thus provide
moisture equal to a rainfall of 22 inches per annum—
which, for the Lachlan country, would mean an abso-
lutely good season for wheat, wool, and fruit. Against the
cost of that weir take the outlay of one, pastoraiist on the
Lachlan for last year’s for purchased
fodder to maintain about 100,000 sheep on about 100,000
acres. On 250,000 acres of evenly though lightly watered
lands on the Lachlan 250 farmers could grow wheat and
sheep and live in prosperity.
♦
There have been several interesting decisions
lately in Eng. Court of appeal. In Parry v. Moreing,
plaintiff’s right was upheld to bis work in an edition of
some British Museum MS. Defendant altered and im-
proved plaintiff’s work, instead of going to the originals ;
and the Court decided that, even in the matter of print-
ing national MS,, copyright held good to the extent of
the original authorship—in deciphering and annotating,
for example. (This decision seems to controvert that
of N.S.W. Equity Court, in 1898, regarding school-
books Wm. Brooks & Co. published and owned a Second
Reader. Upon that a commentary was found desirable ;
and Angus & Robertson and Brooks & Co. published
independently “ pupils’ guides ” based and dependent on
the Second Header. Brooks & Co. sued for infringement,
but their case was dismissed).
A King’s Bench decision was reversed by the Master
of the Roils on May U, in McQuire v. The Western
Morning News. Defendant had published a scathing
criticism of the acting of plaintiff’s dramatic company,
and a jury in the lower court gave him £lOO damages.
The higher court upheld the night of honest criticism.
On May 16 the same court decided the law as to copy-
right in photographs—thus. If you go to»a photographer
in the ordinary way, and pay him to make a picture of
vou you own the picture (t.e., the negative and all posi-
tives that, may he made), and he has no right to publish
reproductions of your picture without your consent.
But if vou are a celebrity, for example, and the photo-
grapher romes to you and desires to take your picture,
and vou permit him, then it will be inferred that copy-
right in the picture passes to the photographer unless
you make a definite agreement to the contrary.
BUGLE AGRA!
IV. .T.D.: The Celtic Renascence is in full flower
in Sydney. Eugene Ryan is teaching Irish at Redfern, and
Dr. O’Donnell delivered an impassioned speech in the
old tongue a little time ago. Also, the present writer
has been pegged to publish the English text of that
oldest and most famous of Jacobite songs, “ Shule Agra.”
The name of the author is not known for certain, but it
is suspected that he belonged to the noble Celtic clan of
O’Daley. The “ wild geese” referred to were the Irish
exiles who fled to France and Spain after the last defeat
of Sheamus Righ (James the Ring). I give the words in
A. P. Graves’s version, and the tune from the Gaelic
League’s journal —Au Claideamh Soluis.
SHULE AGRA.
IHs hair was black, his eye ivas blue,
His arm was stout, his word was true,
I wish in my heart I was with you,
Go-d’e-thu, mavourneen slaun.
Shule, shule, shule agra,*
Only death can ease my woe,
Since the lad of my heart from me did go,
God'e-thu, mavourneen slaun A
’T is oft I sat at my true love’s knee,
Many a fond story he told to me,
He told me things that ne’er shall be...
I sold my rock, I sold my reel;
When my flax was spun I sold my wheel,
To buy my love a sword of steel ...
But when King James was forced to flee,
The Wild Geese spread their wings to sea,
And bore ma bouchal far from me. ..
I saw them sail from' Brandon Hill,
Then down I sat and cried my fill,
That every tear would turn a mi 1 1.,.
I wish the King would return to reign,
And bring my true love back again ;
1 wish, and wish, but I wish in vain., ,
I ’ll dye my petticoat, I ’ll dye it red,
And round the world I ’ll beg my bread,
Till t find my love, alive or dead ...
Shule, shule, shule agra,
Only death can ease my woe,
Since the lad of my heart from me did go,
Go-d’e-thu, mavourneen slaun.
* Come, come, come, heart’s dearest 1
t Good-day, darling, and good luck (health).
POPULAR CONTROL OF THE PUBLIC-
HOUSE
Is the title of a pamphlet by Rowntree and
Sherwell (Edinburgh : Macniven and Wallace ; 3d.). R.
and S. are the most sensible, the most lucid, and the
most authoritative Eng. writers on the liquor question.
Here they summarise practical recommendations for the
U.K.
1. That the right of prohibiting the [liquor] traffic
shall be placed within the power of every locality.
2. That localities, where the right of prohibition is
not exercised, shall be at liberty to organise and control
the traffic, preferably through a company, as in Nor-
way, but always under the direct supervision of the
central government and the local licensing authority,
and only within clearly defined statutory limits.
3. That tbe -whole of the profits shall, in the first
instance, be handed over to a central State authority.
4. That the sole benefit that a locality in which the
trade is placed under public control shall receive from
the profits shall be an annual grant from the State
authority for the establishment and maintenance of
recreative agencies, the primary object of which shall
be to counteract the influence of the public-house.
Such grant to be in ratio to population, and not in
I ratio to profits earned.
s.—That similar grants shall be made to prohibition
areas, all inducement to continue the traffic for the
sake of the grants being thus effectually destroyed.
These conclusions might be accepted for Austra-
lasia—with the difference that municipal or other
public local authority should be preferred to a company.
Because : there would be greater publicity, less risk of
dishonest dealing ; and because individual and local cor-
porate responsibility would be more clearly seen, more
keenly felt, and the apparatus of direction would be sim-
plified. Continue R. and S.—■
The houses carried on under public control might
reasonably be subject to the following among other
conditions of management:—
fa)—Sales on credit to be prohibited.
(b)—ilo female bar-tenders to be employed.
(c)— No adventitious attractions, such as music, etc.,
to be associated with the sale of intoxicants.
(d)— Accommodation for clubs, sick benefit societies,
etc., no longer to be provided at the public-housdS ;
ample provision for these being made elsewhere (e.g.,
in buildings devoted to the counteracting agencies).
(e) —Every public-house to be open to full inspection
from the highway ; no screens or partitions to be used.
It is noteworthy that this reform was advocated by a
Select Committee of the House of Commons as far back
as 1834.
(f) —Back-door and side-door entrances (i.e., deors
opening into passages or courts not used as thorough-
fares) to be prohibited.
Agreed to every one of those recommendations.
I Drink is a blessing. Drink is a curse. It is impracticable
to abolish its U3e ; it is injudicious to attempt to abolish.
But to minimise its potential evils, to destroy actual
temptations to abuse it, every citizen should aid.
If only that chuckleheaded Canon Boyce with his
fictitious drink bill—(pardon this language: the clear
stupidity of “educated” people, people who should have
brains and brains to use their brains, is a revolting thing)
—if only the tribe of Maoriland women with fanatical
propaganda—would assimilate the conclusions of Rown-
tree and Sherwell, doubly proven bv tile facts and figures
of experience, we might hope to reform the drink traffic
in a single generation.
THE WIDOW.
Listen, that I may tell you what happened to a widow:
She lost her petticoat, and said that I took it.
Chorus—The ill-fated widow!
1 did not take it.
If perchance I took it, may I die the death of a thief t
May they take and hang me—on the tap of a cask.
Chorus —The ill-fated widow!
I did not take it.
If perchance I took it, may I die the death of a thief!
May Ibe hung—on cabbages ; may 1 fall into—a lettuce-
bed.
Chorus—The ill-fated widow !
I did not take it.
If perchance I took it, may I dw the death of a thief!
May they chain me with—a string of figs.
Chorus—The ill-fated widow !
I did not take it.
If perchance I took it, may I die the death of a thief l
May they pelt me with—shelled eggs ,
Chorus—The ill-fated widow !
I did not take it.
If perchance I took itmay I die the death of a thief l
May tny teeth break—in a fresh cheese-cake.
Chorus—The ill-fated widow !
I did not take. it.
—From Songs of Modern Grekcb.
THE SIN OF COMPROMISE
I ....The great mass of a generation of children
bom into a country, all those who have no more than
average intelligence and average moral qualities, will
accept the ostensible institutions of that country at
their face value, and will be almost entirely shaped and
determined by that acceptance. Only a sustained, under-
tone of revolutionary protest can prevent that happen-
ing. They will believe that precedence represents real
superiority, and they will, honour what they see honoured,
and ignore what they see treated as of no account.
Pious sentiment about Equality and Freedom will enter
into the reality of their minds as little as a drop of water
into the gredsy plate it has fallen upon.
There must be concessions; there must be conformities,
just as thbre must be some impurity in the'water we drink
and flaws in the beauty we give our hearts to, and that no
doubt is true. It is no reason why we should drink
sewage and kneel to grossness and base Stupidity. To
endure the worst because we cannot have the best is
surely the last word of folly. Our business as New Re-
publicans is not to waste our lives in the pursuit of an un-
attainable chemical purity, bqt to clear the air as much as
possible. Practicalethicsis.afterall, a quantitative science.
... It would be a small concession, I admit, a mere
personal self-sacrifice, to pretend loyalty, kneel and kiss
hands, assist at Coronation mummeries and all the rest of a
it, in order, let us say, to accomplish some great improve-
men of the schools in the country, were it hot for the fact
that all things must be done in the sight of the young,
that you cannot kneel to the King without presenting' a
kneeling example to the people, vyitbout becoming as
good a teacher of servility as though rod were servile to
the marrow. There lies the trouble. By virtue of this
reaction it is that the shams and ceremonies we may
fancy mere curious survivals, mere kinks and tortuosities,
cloaks and accessories to-day will, if we are silent and
acquiescent, be half-way to_ reality again ip the course of
a generation. To our children they are not evidently
shams ; they are powerful working suggestions. Human
institutions are things of life, and whatever lies still
rooted in the ground has the promise and potenev of
growth. It WiH tend perpetually to grow again according
to its nature, to it 3 old influence over the imagination,
the thoughts and acts f>l QUr children.—H. G. Wells, in
The Cosmopolitan.
BOOKFELLOWSHIPMENT
I Another novel by 2nrs. Campbell Praed —The
l host— her twenty-SgCond. But we have ceased to take
[rs. Praed seriously.
Ideas of Good and Evil, by W. B. Yeats, collects his
mgazine essays. Symbolism is the leading topic.
Methuen’s list of projected reprints of illustrated
ooks, to cost 3s. 6 d. and is. 6 d. net, contains some
turns. There are Blake’s Illustrations of Job, Pierce
Igan’s Life in London, with the Cruikshanlrs’ plates,
nd Real Life in London, with Aiken’s and Rowland-
on’o; and a dozen others hitherto obtainable only in
are and expensive editions. Leech, Rowlandson, and
Iruikshank figure among the chief illustrators, and—one
lopes the three-colour process will justify itself.
Kipling’s new book of verse, The Five Nations, is pro-
nised for October.
Arthur Symons collects another volume of prose
ketches— lnterludes.
May Cosmopolitan introduces a post-office
irticle by J. H. Heaton with the remark that Henniker
‘was born in Australia, where he spent his early life.
Yhile yet a young man he became a man of large affairs
n Australia ; then, with the wealth acquired, devoted
limself unselfishly to the cause of popular reform.”
Dhe facts are, of course, that Heaton was
jorn in England in 1848; that he came, an
jnergetic youngster, to Australia, and canvassed
idvts. and subs, for The Town and Country Journal;
ind that in 1873 he married his proprietor’s daughter,
md, “with the wealth acquired,” returned to England
wid got a seat in Parliament. If Henry Kendall had n’t
quarrelled with Rose Bennett, where, and oh, where
would Imperial penny postage be ?
The Spectator, published at Perth, is a pro-
mising new paper. First-issue pars, are crisp, and the
general feeling is light, and bright. Verse by Grant
Hervey comes “By Telegraph" from Victoria. Where’s
your Kipling now ?
To S.T.S. : The linotype does not lose much in
losing italic : the letters can be spaced for emphasis, as
in German. Italic is often too loud: it shrieks...
X.X. : “A Voice from the Bush” has been discarded
from Gordon’s book of verses for the reason that Gordon
did not write it. Ask a bookseller to get you a second-
hand copy of the earlier 2s. 6d. editions containing it. ..
Janus : Rarely have space for translations.. . Lector :
G. B. Shaw’s Cashel Byron’s Profession, 2s. (id....
r!h.C. : Overlooked nothing, and dealt with percentages.
A 6s. book was taken for example ; but the booksellers
get from 55 to 40 per cent, discount on “Colonial
Libraries ” also. True : more magas. are sold in England
than in Australia, hut few Eng. booksellers sell more
than the Australian importing firms. Audit’s nonsense
to say that, when (Sd. novels are sold at published price
all over coastal Australia (one big Sydney firm advertises
them at 5 d.), we should pay9d. for a 6 d. magazine. Bulk
and speedier service don’t mak-e ‘id. and id. difference.
... Nix : Ellis’s Studies in the Psychology of Sex,
parts 1 and 2, are published by the F. A. Davis
Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A. Price about 10s. each....
Cowan : Can’t see anything but vacuous verbiage ip your
version of the Waddell address. Kindly note that Aus-
tralia isn’t all drought and desert ;■ and that her area of
cultivable land, with over 35 inches average rainfall, is
about three times as great as Maoriland’s.
AUSTRALIAN BOOK-PLATES—II.
W HO Tailed Flinders Lane,
I, said Charlie ,
Because I am surly
I killed Flinders Lane.
Do you consider Smith much of a French
scholar?—Pretty-fair. He understands the language
sufficiently well not to attempt to speak it.— Boston
Transcript.
Frank S. : Note also that The Century Dic-
tionary includes among its “typical extracts ” a definition
of boomerang. The “ Boomerang... can be made to
ricochet almost at will. It can be thrown in a curved
path, somewhat as a bowl can be ‘ screwed’ or ‘twisted,’
and it can be made to return to the thrower and strike
the ground behind him.” The notion of a boomerang
“ ricocheting ” along the ground, taken with the ineffec-
tive reference to its aerial performances, is misleading.
« Barracouta, a large, voracious fish of the West Indian
and neighbouring seas... from 6ft. to 10ft. in length.”
No reference to the Australian article, which is probably
being sold to-day in front of the Times Melbourne office.
Writer has, to his sorrow, seen thousands of ’cout-a, none
over four feet in length, and most ranging from two feet
to three feet six. Mallee.— The quotation is from Geoffrey
Hamlyn: “ If you will get any bushman to tell me that
land covered with ... mallee will grow anything I will
tell him he knows nothing.” This, of course, fairly re-
presents prevailing opinion at the time it was written
(1859) ; but a lot has happened since Kingsley’s day.
Damper is described as “ generally baked on a stone" 1
Nil: Recommended for purchase in our library
“ suggestion book ” — David’s Harem !
They were re-telling this story for Herbert
Spencer’s eighty-third birthday on April 27. Spencer used
to play billiards, and in his middle-age at bond. Athemeum
Club he seemed rather “ to fancy himself ” with the cue.
Once he proposed a game to a fellow member whom he
did not know, offering to give him points. The offer was
not accepted, and the game proceeded. Spencer gave a
miss in baulk; the stranger gave a miss under the
cushion ; Spencer played, but failed to score ; thestranger
ran out without giving Spencer another chance B, mw
his skill His revenge took this Johnsonian shape : sir,
said the philosopher, “ a certain proficiency in games of
skill is an indication of a well-balanced mind. Adroit-
ness such as you have just displayed is strong presump-
tive evidence of a mis-spent youth. ’
Spencer was never married. Carlyle (as we are P®™ 181 '
ently reminded) was. Mrs. L., an intimate frie , nd S^ 8 „
Carfvle’s, going one morning to call upon theChejne
Row" household, was informed that her hostess was m
heT but would see her. As she ascended the narrow
little staircase, she met the Sage himself coming down
looking- unusually gloomy and perturbed. On giving
him a civil “ Good morning,” no answer was forthcoming
hn? a brunt. After grating the invalid, Mrs. L. m-
auired in a friendly way, what ailed Mr. Carlyle, adding
that she had just met him, and that he was looking
some what “dob r like.” “Oh ” said MrsCarye can
soon tell you that. You see, 1 ve been ill in bed for three
days, and he never; came near to ask how I "^ s tll h td 8
morning, when I was having breakfast, so I just threw
my cup of coffee over him ! ” Pretty dear. * (
“ No question of the day,” said Rider
it means that their physique is detenoratmg , ™® 9
that fewer men of the best class are available for p V
vast hordes of people, who, at the first ?! £*kle to earn
of serious trade depression, will d an a con-
their livelihood and will have to be supp
trolled.” And Australia ?
W ith the Nor’- West Mail, a booklet of reprintea
deals pleasantly with the incident > M a visit to «o
Australia; but the writer eiios >J t h - • „ f ac ts,
little. If be-had crammed »«yR*g es J Work,
after the manner «Jf J. Foster I raserindwenca*
his work would have been more
reprinting, Sovyden might re-set ?^, e ’ rge . wr jter is
size, and do himself justice. Snadden, second
introduced in the person of W. J- bnaduen,
mate—not remarkable at present.
“ One does not like to find Mr. in a
‘crimson’ as an expletive,” says e mea . n t, and
notice of Typhoon. Bloody IS . tbe - T, on e fears that
surely that should appear or be omitted , jsh
for Australian use, at all events, the fine old “ de * mp .
gentlemanly word has been vulgarned . be too
Son. And even Conrad’s ‘ bloody decks would
suggestive of the greaser’s voice heard roaring
morning watch.
A.G.S.


V
If
FUR SKINS
Kangaroo, Wallaby, Babbit, Opossum.
aEJKTD TO- ' ™
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
THE MOST successful saleshepT^ — YDNEY,
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, and CO., Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN
SYDNE "ST.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offioes: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. 8tor««: PYRMOMT.
Sole Oommisaion 3 For Cent, to tb.e GI-row«r
on Large and. Small Aooounta iklike.
A GO-AHEAD FIRM
PATESON & COBCROFT,
231 Sussex Street,
SYDNEY.
Auctioneers, Commission and Live Stock Agents!
and Produce MAW!h«nt«.
Good* forwarded and received from this or any State. Agents for celebrated Corn Cob Bacon.
AUCTIONS ANYWHERE.
THE LEADIIQ HOUSE for SPORTING GOODS and TOBACCO.
w.
At
-•r
1
Leola.
c *2ip'i
'///
Santiago.
SINGLE BOX AT WHOLESALE PRICE.
GOODS EXCHANGED or MONEY RETURNED.
y*s&s
&-mi Mi'*,
sn-.-
N?/MANILA
?T
i\W
A<s
No. 1 Manila.
&
«UNOo
HSCHILDS
RO
El Mundo.
GUARANTEE.-EVERY CIGAR SOUND
AND IN PERFECT CONDITION.
Post Free Post Free
N.S.W. oth. States
ROMA QUEENS
LA PAROLA, Reliable Smoke ..
HIGH LIFE MENDOZAS .. ..
NIMROD RE IN A VICTORIA ..
LA SPECIAL, from Choicest Leaf
“ LEOLA,” Borneo, Mild Smoking
“EL RIVAL,” Borneo, Full Flavor
HEAVY WEIGHTS (P. de Mendoza) 100
Per 100.
Post Free Post fcYefe
N.S.W. oth. States
in box. s. d, •. d.
Per 100.
I. Hollis
& Son’s
“THE RELIABLE."
PH«« £6 12a. oa.
m
«5
>iiy
N?n
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 gauge, top lever, bar action, real twigt or steel
barrels, Greener cross-bolt, left choke, rebounding locks snap fore-end,
chambered for 2fin. cartridges. Guaranteed for all Smokeless Powder.
ABSQLUttLYtNE best value in the: stated.
GUARANTEED
PERFECTLY
ACCURATE^
RELIABLE.
n
ff\e ( v ja\ir^e”f^i[ > le
Rifle Ap^rT
23 (S/rotA or Lontf, Rin Rdr, 80/rAction
Pound dtued St~e et/aindr dorrei, tb
fitted rri/hp/ginVorS/iding Bock Sights
(duarrenfeedftir 3oo tbs) . Po/uheaHa/nur
Stock. Postage ontt/fte. hdo extra.
MICK SIMMONS,
v,3Y marker, cbYDney.
jeogjo I'OyAqpajßAi/vft agA/uo uej c *spujjf>j
9/fl SOAOOC OJ. 21 HOIS DWIOHS
»/CI SJ-H9IS NIVId HUM
WEAK MEN, LISTEN!
LISTEN to the praise of the greatest remedy that Providence has ever put into the hands of man
to do good with. From every part of the universe daily come words of gratitude and praise
from men and women who have been cured after years of hopeless suffering and lingering
misery. Chronic cases that have been given up by the highest of the medical profession have been
cured, practically in a few hours, actually in only a few days, for, from the first application of this
grand “ Life Giver,” the patient begins to mend. You have not been cured long ago because you did
not use Electricity, and unless you do use it you will never be cured. It is the heat, the motive
force, the potent factor of life in the human body, and will (when used as we direct) restore the
tissues, develop the organs, and make strong and robust men and women out of weaklings. It
will invigorate and rejuvenate the most shattered constitution. Where it is used disease cannot
lurk. Get this wonderful MAN MAKER—THIS GRAND INVIGORATOR.
*A
PS
".
i\
i *
-,,,f1v
• )v
sjWF*
S/'Sfc' vs
FREE
SUSPENSORY
FOR MEN
Pours the warming 1 , invigorating current of life forcB into your body for hours at a time while you sleep. It strengthens, it builds, it
revitalises the worn-out tiseues and organs. Use it, and you’ll never regret it. It has cured thousands, and is curing thousands every year.
The principal feature in our treatment is that we do not use drugs by our method, but the secret of our success is our straightforward,
consistent dealing; we know that Electricity will cure you. We don’t tell you to-day that ELECTRICITY ALONE IS DANGEROUS and
turn around next time and say that METICINE IS NOT NECESSARY. Always read these advertisements carefully. You want consistent
treatment, and we will give it to you.
We have the Public’s Universal Approval.
Lame Back and Rheumatism.
Grainan, N.S.W.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co. T , «
Dear Sir,- Ever since I have been usinjf the Belt I have telt
splendid, and I can stoop down and pick up a pin and bend any-
how. Before, I could not even bend my back to lace my boots, and
all the pains have left me also, and I can eat well and sleep like a
top. I cannot praise your Belt enough for the good it has done me.
Wishing you every sucocess with your Belts,
I remain, sincerely yours, JOHN ROBERTS.
Nervous and Kidney Troubles.
Adavale, G-
To Dr. McLaughlin Co.
Dear Sirs, —According- to promise I send you a report of the
Electric licit I got from you. I beg to say it lias done me a lot of
good. I have the full use of my arms now, and I can thoroughly
recommend the Beit to anyone suffering from loss of nerve power.
In fact I should never have believed the benefit derived from your
Belt if f had not tried it. Wishing you and your Belt success,
I remain, dear sirs, truly yours, F. G. DIGHTSON.
Desperate with Sciatica.
Angel Terrace, Ooolgardie, W.A.
Dear Sirs.—l got your Belt after all the doctors here had given
me up—after all the hospitals had passed me as an incurable. I
had Sciatica so bad that I could neither work nor walk. I wore the
Belt two nights and the pain stopped. In a week I had no pain
and began to mend. In a month I was out again prospecting, and
I would like to meet a man more grateful to you than I am. ,1
don’t think I ever will.
P. YV. KELLY.
IMP-DO NOT BUY AN ELECTRIC BELT UNTIL YOU HAVE ABSOLUTELY DECIDED TO TAKE NO MORE DRUGS.
FREE
We want you to read our Book, and learn the truth about our arguments. If you are not as vigorous as you would like to
be, if you have RHEUMATIC PAINS, WEAK KIDNEYS, LOSS OF VITALITY, PROSTATIC TROUBLES,
NERVOUS SPELLS, or any ailment of that kind, it would assure your future happiness if you would look into this method
of ours. We know beyond all possibility of
doubt that we can cure you, and cure you
permanently. Our BELTS are within reach of
all. Don’t delay trying it ; your best days
are slipping by. If you want this Book, we
send it closely sealed free if you send this ad..
notice,
Do not be induced by a “low offer for cash ”
to pay out any money for a “BELT” which you
have been led (o believe you could secure for
the asking. Write us for an explanation or
how Belts are sold “FREE.”
The Dr. McLaughlin Go.,
100 W. MARKET ST., SYDNEY.
Mclbouins Office— l27E Swans'onstreet.


m
I
m
m
m
%
'
V -V* '
SMOKE
The Unrivalled
World Renownet
BRIAR
PIPES
LARGEST DEPOT :
231 Clarence St,
SYDNEY.
M3iiolY, 3rd AUUUST, at 12 t ciock noon, STAPELTBN’S HALL, BIN 6IH,
Near Bundabere (Queensland).
THE GIN GIN ESTATE FARMS
11,000 ACRES.
Will be cold by PUBLIC AUCTION, by order ef the Trmtaes in the settlement! of
SIB THOMAS McILWBAITH, Decerned.
THE GIN GIN ESTATE is situated on the Mt. Perry Railway Line about 23 miles
from Bundaberg, Queensland, about 12£ hours train from Brisbane, with a frontage of
over 3 miles to the railway line and about 3j miles to the fresh waters of the Burnett
River.
THE GIN GIN ESTATE which has long been coveted by Agriculturists has
now been SUBDIVIDED Into 103 FARMS
of various areas, well watered and drained and containing SOME cf the BEST
AGRICULTURAL LAND in this already famous District.
THE SOIL CONSISTS OF LIGHT AND EASILY WORKED BLACK AND
CHOCOLATE VOLCANIC LOAMS and by analysis has been PROVED EQUAL
TO, AND IN MANY CASES SUPERIOR TO THAT OF THE CELEBRATED
DARLING DOWNS with the additional attraction of A BETTER RAINFALL
due to its proximity to the sea coast.
CLEARING WILL COST PRACTICALLY NOTHING as the estate has nearly
all been ringbarked for 14 years and you can start ploughing right awav.
CROPS OF ALL CEREALS, SUGAR, POTATOES-and ONIONS grow in
profusion and for general farming and dairying the land is unsurpassed.
MAROONDAN RAILWAY STATION IS RIGHT ON THE LAND and
allotments in the TOWNSHIP OF MAROONDAN will be sold immediately after
the farms.
The Gin Gin Central Sugar Mill (which cost £55,000) is close to the Farms, also
a Creamery and a Butter Factory.
UNPRECEDENTED TERMS (24 YEARS) ara offered— ONE-TENTH
CASH. No Payments for 2 Years and tha balance In 23 Annual
Instalments with interest at 4 par cant.
An ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET giving full particulars may be had on application to
the office of this paper or from the Auctioneers,
ISLES, LOVE & GO., The Pest Office Auction Mart,
Quesn Street, BRISBANE.
TO YOUNG MEN Abraham Lincoln’s advice was “GO WEST our advice is—
“GO NORTH."
Ask for ..,
KMORR’
Ready
Made
Dried-
PEA SOUP
It is . .
Known
as the
Best..
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
D MARRIACE GUIDE, 50 engravings, 3/6 ;
posted, 4/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/-; Magic
Up-to-Datb, 1/3 ; Metal Working, solder-
ing, brazing, 1/6 ; Camille, 1/3 ; How to
Play Billiards, 1/3; How to Vamp, 1/3;
Plano Tuning and Repairing, 1/6 ; Modern
Etiquette. 1/-; Card Games, 1/-; Great
Book of Wonders, Secrets and Mysteries,
1/-: Poultry K keping, 1/-; Horse and
Cattle Doctor, 1/-; Parlor Magic, 1/- ;
Dream Book, 1/-; Every Man His Own
Builder, 1 6 ; Carpentry, 1/6 ; Lightning
Calculator, 1/2 ; Australian Doctor, 1/6 ;
Letter Writer, 1/3 ; Speeches and Toasts,
1/8 ; Kelly Gang of Bushrangers, 1/3 ;
Boor of Dialogues, 1/-; Enquirer’s Oracle,
3000 subjects, 1. 6 ; Self Instructor, 1 3 ;
How to Dance, 1/3 ; Art of Boxing, 1/3;
Art of Wrestling, 1/3 ; Moll Flanders,
1/6 ; Tailoring for Amateurs, 1/3 ; Ven-
triloquism, 1/- ; Oomic Reciter, 150 perns,
13; Irish Comic Reciter, 1/8; Little
Folks’ Reciter, 1/8 ; Nigger Stump
Speeches, 1/8 ; New Tricks with Cards,
1/3 ; That Rascal Gustave, 1/8 ; Plais
Homs Talk, 7/6 ; Sappho (genuine), 1/6;
Fortune Telling Cards, directions. 1 6 ;
Advice to Women. 13; Midwives’ Hand-
book, 92 practical illustrations (better than
Aristotle), 8/-; Palmistrt, chart and guide,
6d. ; Clog Dancing, 1-, Above prices in-
clude postage to any address. Stamps or
Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
Catalogues —Plays," Conjuring Apparatus,
Racy Novels, Useful Books, Private Books
for the Married, etc.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK AND MAQIC
ARCADE, -
201 Bourke-st., Melbourne.
'
m
W
mvM
■' •
W&Mi
<,.A,
WITH GREENER BOLT AS DRAWN, THE “ WARATAH,”
60 -
WITHOUT GREENER BOLT, THE “ WONGA,”
50-
BAR LOCKS.
Left Barrel Full Choke
Hig.it BarrePCylinder Bore.
For accurate and close shooting this gun cannot ut surpassed, made of Best
Materials, and equal in finish and workmanship to guns of three times the
price. Barrels are Browned Twist, carrying a high polish. BAR LOCKS, Treble
Bolt, half-pistol hand. Hammers are well down out of the line of sight. Vulcanite
heel-plate on best selected po islied walnut stock. We will supply one or fifty of these guns to anybody \Y
have only one price. Send your P. 0.0. with orders to —
Carriage raid to any Railway Station in N.S. W.
T. TOMBLESON, Manager.
Sydnsy Small Arms Co.
57 P.O. Chambers,
Pitt-st, Bydney.
King Marine Oil Engines.
2\ to 500 H.P. || 1003 MODELS.
Estimates given for Fitting Cargo Boats, Tug Boats, Fishing Boats and Trawlers, Auxiliary
Power or Pleasure Boats. Vessels of all sizes built and fully equipped.
PUMPING PLANTS. REFRIGERATING PLANTS. COLD STORAGE for F.shing Boats.
Information and Prices furnished by—
], F, McDERMOTT k CO., 30 PITT street, Sydney.
Factory Agents for Australia and the South Seas.
THE
‘PLUM’
TNI
-’7—
THE
‘PLUM’
ENTLEMEN.—This razor is superior to any o'her. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, ring
(jr like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and. having had them in use for a number of ) ears, can testify to
theh merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7a 6A
“RAZOLES” LICHTNiNC RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake,
f Single Razor, in strong leather Case, 10s Gd ; Fair, in beautiful Morocco Heather Case, ’lt
Prick -{ Kin ® ]f , Bazol- in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful one, 33*.
Sole Agents
{single Razot, in Ivory Handle, 15s;
Registered and sent Post Freb to ant part op the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st.,
Svdnev.
SORE
SINGLETON ’ S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORE AND WEAK EYES. BLIGHT, AITD
RESTORES EYF LASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
(Nj LVER FAILS.
Ask youp Chemist fop the little Eook:
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
<rs
Vi
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER
FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS
SALLOW SKIN.
RTER’S
There’s SECURITY in
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
They TOUCH .he
LIVER
Be Sure they are
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
Carter’s
9
A
J
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania)
IMPORTANT NOTICE
Tlfe Tasmanian Government having imposed a tax of One Penny
on every Five Shilling Ticket issued by Tattexsall’s on and after Ist
January, 19D3, clients will please forward Id. extra for each ss.
ticket applied for, or 4d. for every J6l, and so on.
NOW OPEN
GRAND NATIONAL HURDL2 RAC-2, Fiem ngton, \ie, July 4 100.000 at 5 1.
ADELAIDE GRAND NATIONAL HURDLE, Victoria Park, S.A.. August 8. 25.000 at 5 1
CAULFIELD CUP, Caulfield, Vic., October 17, 00,000 at 51.
MELBOURNE CUP, Fleming ton, Vic., November 3. 100.000 at 10 2.
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS (“TA1TER>ALL t'TILL
CONTINUES his business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the lAS MAX lAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients tan send their subscriptions by letter to any friend or
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the application and
securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to clients.
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit o‘ GEORGE
ADAMS, Commercial Bauk of Tasmania, Ho. art. Clients when so doing will please request
Bank to advise G EORGE ADAMS of ainouut, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PAH CEL
DELL\ ERT CO. doing business with Tasmania.


e
There is this
peculiar thing
about our Hair
Vigor : it’s a hair-
food, not a dye.
It doesn’t turn
your hair sud-
denly black and
make it look dead
and lifeless. But
gradually the old
color comes back,
all the rich color it
used to have. And
it also stops falling
of the hair.
Even if your hair
isn’t coming out,
isn’t turning gray,
isn’t too short,
yet you certainly
want a fine dress-
ing for it, and here
it is.
Ayer's Hair Vigor
It keeps the scalp clean and healthy,
removes all dandruff, makes the hair
grow rapidly, prevents it from falling
out, and does not allow a single gray
hair to appear.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Make sure that you get the genuine
Ayer’s Hair Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
W. H.Wigzell.
FRINGES: Best Natural Curly
Hair, 3/6, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each.
TAILS and PLAITS : 20in. long,
6/6 ; extra thick, 7/6; 24in., 10/6;
extra thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings worked up,
2/6 per oz. Don’t be misled.
Our Plaits and Tails are twice as
thick as sold elsewhere at the
same price. Send color of Hair.
Only one address : 110 WILLIAM-
ST.', cor. of Palmer St. SYDNEY.
Notice. —NO Branch Businesses. All work guaranteed.
Illustrated Catalogue post free. Prompt attention given
to country orders. Wigs made on shortest notice. All
Hairwork sent to the other States free of duty. Transfor-
mations, entire covering for the head, 80/- each.
A
FLUID
OIL
CRUDE FLUID
POWDER
EMBROCATION
80AP8
DISINFECTORS
INHALERB
FUMIGATORB
NIT,
ItSINFECTINfi
FLUID
COLORLE'4B
FRAGRANT
NON.
POISONOUB
DOES NOT
BTAIN
KILLS ALL
DISEASE
GERMS
OXYGENATES
THE AIR.
Sulphur Candles - \
Formic Fumigators /
KINGZETT’S
PATENTS.
"HOW TO DISINFECT " Book Free.
The “SANITAS” CO., Ltd.,
Bethnal Green, LONDON, Bj
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy »
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdestre & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman'S NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all^ Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.* h
"'V.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN'S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstre & Tkuman,
71 Old Kent Koad, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
/R)
f O
IRISH
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
BONNiAiCTorw’S
IRISH MOSS
MOSS
CURES WHILE /•
SLEEPING*
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and €olds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.
Commercial
Bugrgry,
£l4 IQs.
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-sfc.,
SYDNEY.
£2T Send for a
Catalogue.
Went Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE t<
buyers of Light Vehicles.
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, i3o Sussex St., Sydney
Straight Shaft 3-Spring Sulkies, £Blos.
Sarven Sulky Wheels Tyred, £2 4s 6d pair.
Discount to Wholesale Buyers. Send for Catalogue.
21f
21/-
MOST MARVELLOUS VALUE
A SOLID SILYER KEYLESS
Hunting Watch.
Heavy Case, Sound Movement,
Perfect Timekeeper/ ....
GUARANTEED FOR TWO YEARS.
21 J-
Posted Duty Free to any part of Australia.
Send for my New Illustrated Catalogue.
QUEENSLAND LEADING JEWELLER
H. F. SMITH,
Queen Street, Brisbane
and at IPSWICH and TOOWOOMBA.
'k
REPEATING RIFLES
repeat. They don’t jam, catch, or fail to extract.
In a word, they are the only reliable repeaters.
Winchester rides are made in all desirable
calibers, weights and styles; and are plain, par-
tially or elaborately ornamented, suiting every
purpose, every pocket-book and every taste.
WINCHESTER AMMUNITION
made for all kinds of shooting in all kinds of guns.
Winchester guns and Winchester ammunition are f
FOR SALE BY ALL IRONMONGERS.
w E stock WINCHESTER GOODS.
M‘LEAN BROS. & RIGG, Ltd.
ELIZABETH STREET, fIELBOURNE.
I mV HOd HIVH
good
All Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
4®- For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
tS" For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
%
2.
t
*9
Washington H. Soin. & Co..
Pitt-atreet, Sydney.
CONSULT HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by WATKINS & MACKAY, Chemists, Queen Street, Brisbane ; Mr. GORDON, 92 George
Street, Rockhampton, Queensland, and
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Exasperated.
Bang into the Lawyer’s office thro’ the private
door he plodded
With a rusticated reoklessness and blucher-booted
tread.
Uninvited seized an office chair, sprawled into it
and nodded
As he wiped his corrugated brow of honest sweat
and said—
Mornin’, Lawyer! I’ve just steered around to
interview yer for
To shake up some bloomin’ bounders for a-smashin’
up the law.
Say I want ter buy a horse that doesn’t kiok
and ain’t a shier ;
Say I doesn’t want a goer that’ll eat a lot of
feed,
But the quietest I oan pick up, and say I
becomes a buyer
Of a chestnut from a dealer and I pays him what’s
agreed;
Say I take his word for granted cause I’m layin’
sick in bed,
Can 11 summons him for sellin’ me a darn moke
that was dead ?
Say I pegs out a selection next to someone else
that poses
As a friend, and seems the kindest human shape
I ever knew ;
Say he gives me half a ton of seeds he sez are
creepin’ roses,
And I plant ’em all around me hut to make it
picture-skew.
Can’t I lump that crocodile to court if—spare me
old red hairs !
I can’t find me darn selection now for weeds and
prickly pears ?
‘ Say again I buys a sheep-dog from a cove and
tracks home with her,
And she just sniffs ’round my larder and ske-
daddles back agen :
Say I go and buy another and she does the same
darned slither,
Then another, and another, till I’ve shovelled out
for ten;
Can’t I get that blazin’ wrigglin’ adder strangled
up for crime
If I’ve bought the same dog dyed a different
color every time ? ’’
vio.
ALFERD E. BRIDGES.
M'Callum.
I’ve followed up a shearer’s work
For five and thirty seasons now ;
Fra’ Camooweal way down to Bourke
They ken M'Callum’s auld grey pow.
Aweel, each tyke must have his day—
The proverb’s worn, but verra true—
An’ men an’ sheds have changed their way,
But I’m too auld to learn anew.
They’ve passed awa’ beyond my ken,
The men I knew in bygone years,
I’m left—the cobbler o’ the pen—
To wait the end that slowly nears.
Poor lads ! their souls are nane the worse
For that they were a reckless crew,
If over prone to drink and curse,
I found their hearts ring leal and true.
’Tis fearsome, now, the sheds to see
A’ filled wi’ whirlin’ belts an’ wheels,
The dinnin’ o’ machinery
Is chorused by the whistle’s screels.
In place o’ honest, ringin’ shears,
New-fangled combs an’ cutters click
Wi’ clatterin’, complicated gears.
Good Lor-rd 1 it mak’s a body sick !
I’ve seen the auld give way to new,
For time and changes will not stay;
The sheds are growin’ verra few
Where sheep are shorn the good auld way.
An’ when the Lor-rd—the time draws near—
Shall please to give auld Mac the route,
Maybe the lads will grieve to hear
M'Callum’s had his last cut out.
JASON.
Wattle Bloom.
The magpie’s constant, joyous chime
Falls from the blue-gums, far and near;
The wattle is in golden prime;
It is the glad time of the year
When music of the spring we hear;
There is no thought beneath the sky
Of fading leaf and winds austere,
When wattle, like us all, must die.
The soft, sweet Spring of Austral clime,
Its murmurs fall upon the ear
In liquid cadences sublime ;
It is the glad time of the year—
The voices of the bush rise clear,
And bid the winter glad “good-bye !”
The winter —dull-clad, cold-swept, drear—
When wattle, like us all, must die.
Spring turns life’s prose to rippling rhyme ;
In its enchanted atmosphere
A lack of lovers is a crime ;
It is the glad time of the year.
Alas ! that, though love knows no fear,
Both Spring and lovers, too, must lie
On their inevitable bier,
When wattle, like us all, must die.
N.S.W.
S. ELLIOTT NAPIER.
A Chicago church paper supplies this
remarkable lie:
The Bible was banished from the puhlic schools of Aus-
tralia for a quarter of a century. As a result a feneration
of ruffians and hoodlums grew up. The people saw their
mistake, and the Bible was hastily reinstated in the
schools.


The Miseries Caused
by a Torpid Liver.
The Only Safe Remedy Effects
a Perfect Cure.
The Cate of Mrs. M. HICKEY,
(BV a special reporter.)
There is much profound and important
wisdom in that old proverb where it is said
—“ The heart knoweth its own bitterness.”
It forms part of a truth still more compre-
hensive—that every man knows his own
peculiar feelings, and difficulties, and trials
far better than he can get any of his
neighbours to perceive them, although in an
effort to convey such impressions to other
minds lately made by Mrs. Marian Hickey,
of No. 3 West-street, Paddington, the
subject dealt with was so clearly described
that no trouble should be experienced in
understanding her story.
“For several weeks,” said Mrs. Hickey,
“ I had been feeling Tather unwell, but
there was no particular cause for alarm
until one day I took a bad turn whilst doing
my work. Such a horrible feeling of faint-
ness came over me that I said I would see a
doctor, and so I did.”
“Did the doctor tell you what was
wrong ? ”
“ He said it was my liver and kidneys
which were causing the trouble, and that
the medicine which he prescribed was the
best thing 1 could have for my complaint,
but my sufferings, instead of getting less,
became fifty times worse than ever ; so after
taking that medicine a while I thought I
had better hasten to another doctor and see
if he could bring me any relief. For a day
or two I was slightly easier, then the medi-
cine had no effect upon me, and I drifted
to the lowest depths of wretchedness.
Even then I did not lose heart altogether,
for I consulted another physician, and then
another, and so on till I could see it was no
use going to any more. My courage failed
me after all those bitter experiences, and I
thought my only chance w ould be simply a
matter of luck. If I could but get a good
physic amongst all those that were
advertised I might yet be relieved, I
thought; but after trying almost everything
procurable I w r as in a hopeless predica-
ment,. ”
“ Are you sure you did not receive some
benefit from all those medicines ?”
“ None whatever. They made me worse,
for I became as helpless as a child. Yes,
twelve years ago I lost the use of my limbs.
Why, I could not put my hands to-my head
to do ray hair, and for five months I could
not w'alk except by the aid of sticks and
with some one to help me along. Oh ! it
was terrible ; and to think that I was not
going to see my children grow up was a
source of constant anguish. I had given up
all hope of recovering, and felt as sure as I am
that I am sitting here that I would never
get better, and if you had seen me you
would have thought the same. You never
saw such a sight as I was—not a morsel of
flesh on my bones (I was as thin as a wafer),
and my cheeks quite sunken. With my
darkened complexion as well, I am sure I
looked the picture of death. Iw as awfully
nervous, too, for I used to jump up in the
middle of the night and fancy that some-
body was killing me, and if I had been able
to walk I would not have crossed the street,
as if anybody came near me my limbs shook
like the branches of a tree There was no
peace in life for me, and I was so melancholy
with the that I was dying that I
resigned myself to my fate. Heavy pains
in the chest gave me such a horrible choking
sensation that I was afraid to lie down, and
I had to~be propped up in my chair because
of the excruciating pains in my side and
back, between my shoulders the pain was
so severe that I used to have a lotion rubbed
in ; but that did not ease them, and the
piercing pains at the top and back of my
head nearly drove ms frantic. My eyes felt
M if they were not properly opened, the
sight also being very bad, and if I washed
my mouth out a dozen times a day, it made
no difference to the bitter taste that was
there. I had no appetite for food, and
what little I was obliged to take gave me
violent pains in the stomach, which seemed
to be tied in a knot. When those terrible
cramps came on I used to think, ‘ Oh, dear, I
am going to expire S’but even death would not
come to my relief. Soon afterwards, how-
ever, the food came up again, and it was
that constant vomiting which made me as
weak as a kitten. Giddiness and palpita-
tion came with the least movement, and I
felt so feeble that I knew the last "bregs of
life would soon be exhausted.”
“ Unless you received relief you mean ? ”
“I did not look for help, because I
thought I was past all worldly aid ; but, to
please a friend who came to see me, I
consented to try a bottle of Clements Tonic.
When that was emptied she insisted on me
taking more, and in a fortnight I really felt
the better for it. Something seemed to
whisper that I should persevere with
Clements Tonic, and, helpless and crippled
as I was, a new hope sprang up, because
Clements Tonic was stopping the fits of
vomiting, and I was sleeping Well already.
Restlessness at nights bad been one of my
greatest trials, but under Clements Tonic
I could soon sleep peacefully, without
dreams occurring to upset me. Then the
dreadful chest and stomach pains started to
decrease, and my headaches were less
frequent. For a time I could hardly realise
that I was being rescued, but when a good
appetite appeared and my food stayed down
regularly, 1 almost jumped with joy at the
knowledge that I was saved. For twelve
months I had suffered unspeakable torture
and misery, and those who had seen me
tottering on the brink of the grave were
amazed at the wonderful power of Clements
Tonic, which cleared away the pains in my
side and shoulders, and drove the aching
sensations from my limbs, the use of which
I acquired by degrees. To be able to mix
with the outside world after despairing of
ever seeing it again is what I have to thank
Clements Tonic for, and I am sure I would
have been dead long ago only for that medi-
cine. The strengthening effects of Clements
Tonic were shown by the way I could go
about my work, as in a few weeks I was as
brisk and active as ever, and with as much
happiness in life as I enjoyed before being
afflicted with that terrible sense of nervous
depression which nothing but Clements
Tonic could eradicate. The symptoms of
kidney disease were banished simultaneously
with my liver disorders, and they were all
removed so effectively that for nearly eleven
years I have been blessed with the very best
of health. That is why I advise all my
friends to take Clements Tonic when they
are ill, and nothing pleases me more than
this interview, every word of which you
can publish in any form you like.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Marian Hickey, of 3 West-street, Paddington,
in the state of New South Walss, Commonwealth ef
Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I
have carefully read the annexed document, consist-
ing of five folios, and consecutively numbered from
one to five, and that it contains and is a true and
faithful account of my illness and cure by Clements
Tonic; and also contains my full permission to pub-
lish in any way my statements which I give
voluntarily, without receiving any payment; and
I make this solemn declaration conscientiously be-
lieving the same to be true, and by virtue of the
provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900.
/ku
Subscribed and declared at Paddington, this
twenty-fourth day of April, one thousand nine hun-
dred and two, before me,
CHAS. CAMPBELL, J.P.
S. FREEMAN SONS LIMITED
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
■ BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. > JELLY CRYSTALS.
biad office: WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
—' <-* CLOTH, 300 PAGES.
BY SIXTY BULLETIN WRITERS. PRICE, 4s. 6d. ; POSTAGE Gd.
Sole Distributing Agents—
Edwards, Dunlop & CoLtd., Sydney and Brisbane.
FOR THE BtTiIEX WOftKSS
am-Bufc
iiLLTnrm
A SOOTHING BALM and EMBROCATION. Will be found
a CERTAIN CURE for Cuts, Burns, Bolls, Barcoo,
Eczema, Sprains, Ringworm, Sore Feet, Plies all
forms of Skin Disease or Muscular Affeotlons, etc.
From all Chemists, 1/6 per Tin. A FREE SAMPLE will
be sent you. Address the
ZAM-BUK CO., 39 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Enclose Penny Stamp for postage, and mention this paper.
OTICE TO IVBMjBOURNE VISITORS
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 101 A
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen.”
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separately examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
tar- BEWARE OF IMITATIONS. ~»J
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM
IT'S
UNSIGHTLY
THE ELECTRICON
RESTORES LOST HEARING.
A New Scientific Discovery, worn for two or three hour*
daily ( anyone can wear it. Book that tells all Posted Free.',
L. R. Vernon Coy., 60-64 Hunter St., Sydney
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPP S ’ S
GRATEFUL-COMFORTING*
COCOA
BREAKFAST—SUPPER.
DEBILITATED
WEAK, NERVOUS SUFFERER. Let us send you a
trial course of our CONCENTRATED BOTANIC
REMEDIES FREE OF CHARGE. You will be more
than pleased with the result, and you will show your
appreciation of our valuable treatment by perseverinjr
in its use for a few weeks until you are PERMANENTLY
CURED. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
DRUNK
ENNESS
CURED
Absolutely Conquered In 20 Days.
See my proposition to the Government,
November Bth, 1901, wherein I agree to
accept 100 Test Cases, and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home treatment
within the reach of all. No restrictions, no
hypodermic injections. Full particulars free.
W. LANGSTON, M. R.C.S.. Eng,,
129 Collins-st., Melbourne.
RUPTURE cured
■* WB B W B ™ without opera-
rhr
tion or pain, no detention from work,
or dependence upon Trusses. The
only humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
Treatise No. 10. Address:
SURGEON LANGSTON, m.r.c.s., eng.,
IZ9 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
Dr. Langston’s Representative will visit
Newcastle, June 6th to 20th ; Bathurst,
June 23rd to 29th ; Orange, July Ist to 6th ;
Duhbo, July 7th to 13th.
Rescued from Drink
by a new discovery, odorless and tasteless, which any lady
can give in tea, coffee or food. It does its work so silently
and surely that while the devoted wife, sisteror daughter
looks on, the drunkard isreclaimed, even against his will
and without his knowledge and co-operation. Send name
and address to THE EUCRASY CO., 62 HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W., and they will send you booklet and
particulars free.
JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE WORSTCOUGHi,
ALL CHEMISTS
ppor FiNSfjre
jP
FOR
Anaemia,
Poverty of Blood
and Weakness
from Whatever Cause.
PER BOX
’.AT 3/6
TABLETS
Refreshing and Agreeable.
CALVERTS
CARBOLIC
TOILET SOAP.
A pleasant Antiseptic Soap (containing 10%
pure Carbolic Acid). Should be used regularly
to improve the skin and complexion and prevent
infection.
F. C. CALYERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
Ifor Assist '{lights
{C&csLUlyJ'n/unts
TRY **
RIDGES
&k<i
fief use a// Im/tations.
Satisfying, Strengthening Soothing for Infants
Agreeable. Digestible, Nourishing
AG£#rS SO/? SYDNfY
SAYffiS AlLPOfir * POTTfP
RIDGES FOOD MILLS. LONDON.E*c
TOOTH-ACHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
BUNTER’S
Prevents Decay, Saves
Extraction, Sleepless Nl*M»
Prevented.
N euralgic Head ache* & all Nerre
Pains removed by BUNTER'S
NERVINE. Of aU Store*.
NERVINE
t "As a specific (or Tooth-ache it has no equal. I hare
used it successfully for years ’'—Prof. W. Wilsow, M.D.
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’S WORSDELL’S PILLS
Are a certain Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Head ache,
Dyspepsia, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, Ac.
Of all Storks.
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchase!
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
A TELIA NCES
a trial of SO days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electria
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore ths
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electria
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTICE. —Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
Illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
WEBSTER’S
CARBOLIC
TOOTH
POWDER
Large Tins, 6d.
All chemists.
jt
Equal to any
imported article.
Cleans the teeth not merely fay fric-
tion but antiseptically. It keeps them
bright, pure, healthy and strong.
If your chemist or storekeeper does not stock
it—take no other, but send 7d. in stamps direct
to us for a tin.
ALEXANDER J. WEBSTER,
SOLE PROPRIETOR * MANUFACTURER.
177 Pitt St, Sydney, N.S.W.
Free for Asking:.
WRITE to us and we will forward you our scientlflo
book, which will show you how to cure disease ana
beeome healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like masric, and you will be filled with energy,
“trength and ambition once more. Posted free. Writ*
t > O. Spioifio, Elisabeth Street, North Melbourne.


American school op corres-
pondence, post office box,
629, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Please send me Catalogue and par-
ticulars of the Technical Education
you give for the position, before which
I have marked X.
Electrical Engineer
Mechanical Engineer
Steam Engineer
Marine Engineer
Civil Engineer
Mining Engineer
Sanitary Engineer
S.rveyor
Architect
Draftsman
Textile Designer
Carpenter
Builder
Plumber
Gas-Fitter
Navigator
Chemist and Dyer
Telephone Engineer
Name _ ..
Street and No. .. 4.
City or Town .. ..
Free Book on
Magnetic Healing.
Reader, why not b# able to use the most mysterious
and powerful force of nature ? By my method you can
learn to Hypnotise in a few hours’ time. You can per-
form all the many marvellous feats that are possible to
the Hypnotist. Through Hypnotism you can cure dis-
ease, cohquer pain, gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you nothing'to find
out all about it. I have issued in book form a mammoth
Illustrated LESSON or KEY to HYPNOTISM, which fully
explains the mysteries and secrets of the Art. It con-
tains beautiful and artistic engravings, and is the most
elaborate and extensive thing of the kind ever published.
For a short time I will send this magnificent book FREE,
on receipt of two stamps to cover postage. Order to-day
and learn to Hypnotise. It is a chance of a lifetime.
ADDRESS :
PROF. R. H BARRADEN,
89 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
MEN
If
you
are
suffering from
exhaustion, Vari-
cocele, Wasting,
Weakness, enclose 6 stamps (postage and
packing), and I will send a trial bottle of my
REMEDY, FREE.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING
to try my Life Syrup Remedies, which
give back strength of body and brain, renewed
vigor, and development of the vital organs;
not a free prescription dodge, but a trial of
my wonderful remedy free for the asking.
Professor h. read,
165 oollins Str'et, Melbourne.
IT.
cs
VEGETABLE
Charcoal
THE ROAD
TO HEALTH IS
PAVED WITH
GOOD
DIGESTION.
Speedily cures Acidity. Flatulence, Heartburn,
Impure Breath, Indigestion, Diarrhoea, &c. It
destroys all disease germs, and,absorbing all impuri-
ties in the stomach and bowels,gives a healthy tone
to the whole system. Wards off all attacks of TyphoicJ,
and other Fevers. Prevents many an illness.
BRAGG’S PURE CHARCOAL POWDER in
Bottles; LOZENGES and BISCUITS in Tins
(pleasant to take). Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Havifrghad complaints of the injury done by other
preparations,please see that each Bottle or Tin bears
the Trade Mark ‘J.L.B., in monogram,’on the wrapper.
OF INTEREST to MEN
TvEAR SIR,—I have been cured of weakness and De-
bilitv by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHURST,
v Pi** street, Sydney.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, 1s
The Life, Adventures
and Confesssions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
'end stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties,
Madame Panza,
BOX 913. G.P.0., BYDNEY.
The Australian Sailorman’s Book—
E. J. BRADY’S
“Che Ways of many Waters.”
A rattling collection of Sea Chanties. Price
ss. 3d. post free from The Bulletin office.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11/-.
Thousands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
Wholesale Agents :
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
25 High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
HAYMAN’S
If you have a Cough or Cold
HAYMAH’S BALSAM WILL CURE IT.
BALSAM
Gives Rest and Sleep. Pleasant to
take. Invaluable in the Nursery.
Sold by all
CHEMISTS
and STORES.
CURES.
s
OR BABY’S SHIN
sour AND BUR
Something for Mothers to Think About
EVERY CHILD born into the world with an inherited
or early developed tendency to distressing, disfiguring
humours of the skin, scalp, and blood, becomes an object
of the most tender solicitude, not only because of its suf-
fering but because of the dreadful fear that the disfigura-
tion is to be lifelong and mar its future happiness and
prosperity. Hence it becomes the duty of mothers of
such afflicted children to acquaint themselves with the
best, the purest, and most effective treatment available,
viz., THE CUTICURA TREATMENT.
Warm baths with Cuticura Soap, to cleanse the skin of crusts and scales
and soften the thickened cuticle, gentle anointings with Cuticura Oint-
ment, to instantly allay itching, irritation, and inflammation, and soothe and
heal, to be followed in the severer cases by mild doses of Cuticura Resol-
vent Pills (see below), to cool and cleanse the blood, are all that can be
desired for the alleviation of the suffering of skin-tortured infants and
children and the comfort of worn-out, worried mothers. A single set is
often sufficient to cure when the best physicians fail.
Millions of Women Use Cuticura Soap
Assisted by Coticura Ointment, for preserving, purifying, and beautifying the skin, for
cleansing the scab) of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the stopping of falling hair, for
softening, whitening, and soothing red, rough, and sore hands, for baby rashes, itchings,
and chaflngs, in the form of baths for annoying irritations and inflammations, or too free
or offensive perspiration, in the form of washes for ulcerative weaknesses, and for many
sanative, antiseptic purposes which readily suggest themselves to women, especially
mothers, and for all the purposes of the toilet, bath, and nursery.
Cuticura Resolvent Pills (Chocolate Coated) are prepared to meet the wants of
delicate women, and sensitive children, and are pure, sweet, and tasteless. They are
beyond question the most successful blood purifiers and humour cures yet compounded.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world. Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co., Sydney. British
Depot: 27-28, Charterhouse Sq., London. French Depot: 5 Rue de la Paix, Pari*. Potter Drug AND CHKM.
Coer., Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A. “ All about the Skin,” free.
m
*9*
Wk
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life* Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regain Health?
Go to the Fountain Head
and consult OLD SURGEON LANGSTON, member of the Royal
College of Surgeons, Eng., who will cure you. Forty years’
practice as a Specialist is sufficient guarantee of the doctor’s
ability. I do not seek to demonstrate a theory. I have no time for that,
for'l am accomplishing facts. I am curing thousands who have
given up all hope of life, lam bring nj joy and happiness
into hundreds of homes. If you suffer from kidney and liver disease,
lung, stomach or heart trouble, consumption, debility, insomnia, blood
poison, Varicocele, headaches, backache, nervousness, or any disease
or weakness of the vital organs, come to me and I will cure you
and make you well. The people whom I have snatched from the very
jaws of death and have lifted up and given strength and health are
living witnesses of the everlasting power of my treatment. It
matters not how long you have been afflicted ; it matters not how
hopeless or helpless you may be ; it matters not what doctors have
said or what remedies have failed to cure you ; it matters not whether
you have faith.
E3T I WILL CURE YOU.
A NEW TREATMENT AND GUARANTEED CURE FOR VARICOCELE WITHOUT OPERATION.
Be the Equal of Your Fellow Man.
If you are a sufferer from any nervous, chronic Blood or Skin diseases, or interested in the subject of
Neurasthenia and associated evils, write at once for book of information, blank forms, etc., and have the
old doctor diagnose your case.
All communications strictly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, 129 Collins Street, Melbourne
Established in Melbourne 1886.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 86 Cbromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1902 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, iilus.
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
The Art of Wrestling, post Is. Hoyle’s Games, post 2/6
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust.; Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted. Camille, Is 3d.
Secret History of the Court of England, 1 6 post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer. Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The a mateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His G ang (only true history), Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post. 1
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d. ’
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted. Sappho, Is.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
The Wife’s Handbook, Is 2d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid'
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is 3d.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s posted.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music comple e Is 6d.
Tiie Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d posted.
Send for my Illustrated Big Book
Catalogue-post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
ASTHMA and BRONCHITIS CURED
By using: CASE’S ASTHMA CURE, made from the Queensland Asthma
Plant. Relieves instantly, eventually Cures. 4s- 6d. large bottle;
Posted to any Btate, ss.
J. W. CASE, Chemist, 140 Wickham-st., Brisbane.
Please mention Bulletin when writing.
Memory and Success.
The Seoret of Buooooo —A Good Memory.
The Pelman System
of Memory Training.
"M"O matter what your line of work may be a
**■' bad memory means worry and failure. No
matter how bad your memory may be Pelman’s
System will make it {food. Even if your memory
is good, Pelman’s System will teach you how to
use your brains systematically and turn failure
into success.
The System is taught in Five Postal Lessons,
which can be had from Melbourne Branch. All
the teaching required is done successfully by cor-
respondence with Melbourne Secretary. The
Melbourne Branch gives you everything you
need, same as Head Office in London.
Do you want to remember Figures, Dates,
Names, Appointments, Verbal Instructions, Busi-
ness Details, &c., &c. Do you want to save time,
to think rapidly, to reason logically, to avoid
mistakes? In a word, do you want to be in line •
with the men whose trained minds have brought
success ? Then take Pelman’s Course of Training.
It is simple, easy, practical, effective. If you
have any doubt, however, write first for a FREE
copy of Mr. Pelman’s explanatory booklet;
“ Memory Training ; its Laws and their applica-
tion to Practical Life.” 80 pages. It gives a
large number of convincing testimonials. Sent
post free on applicatian to
The Pelman School of Memory Training,
Melbourne, G.P.O. Box 402.
London, 4 Bloomsbury St., W.C.; Paris, Ave. de Neuilly
109; Munich, Mozartstr. 9.; Chicago, 1608 Masonic Temple
BLAIR’S
GOUT $ RHEUMATIC
The Great English Remedy for
GOUT, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA,
LUMBACO & NEURALCIA.
The acute pain is quickly relieved and cured in a
few days by this celebrated Medicine.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, and sold at Is. ljd. and 2s. 9d.
ier box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
• •'•'uisrhout t.hfe Australian Colonies.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
For Asthmatic people who suffer trom
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault’s Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
ORIMAULT Sc Co., Paris. Sold by all Chemists.
EVERY WOMAN
is interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new FEMALfc SYRINGE
Injection and Suction. The best,
safest and most convenient.
It Cleanses Instantly.
If your druggist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated Book, sent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies. ' Endorsed by Physicians.
Times Building, N. Y.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS-
THE MARVEL CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
CAMDEN BUILDING,
418 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
LADY SPECIALIST IN ATTENDANCE.
Postal Address, Box 623, G.P.0., Sydney.
Write for Booklet. Sent free, sealed.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by using
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS, DEBILITY,
VARICOCELE, etc.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life affords relief and permanently
cures all who suffer from wasting- and withering of the
nervous tissues; restores Energy, Strength and
Vitality to the most weak and shattered constitutions
(no matter from what cause) and regenerates all the
important elements of the human frame.
Price 128., or four quantities in one, 363. Freight extra,
Is. and Is. 6d. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope.
Agents for Australasia— PERRY & CO., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne; N.S. & Co., 16 O’Connell
St., Sydney ; Newcastle, Adelaide and Perth.
HlB
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
■and Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free. -
Address—A. M NAST, 145 Collins St,, Melbourns,
PHOTOS
Model* from Life, Beautiful Stereo-
scopies, etc. List with 100 Minia-
ture and 3 Cabinet size photo*.,
55., P.O O. or stamps.
S. REOKNAGEL NAGHF, Munloh, 1 BrlefTaoh, Germany


SEHHESST S
HUH.
Hennessy’s
Old Battle Axe
Brand
is Known
and
Appreciated
all
the
World
Over.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
WOOLLEN UNDERWEAR
... 0F...
VERTEX CELLULAR
FABRIC
is the healthiest. most comfortable t* ev«
the temlerest skin. snJ most °* *H
materials ter Whiter.
It ». ia iss oomcroeocm, a «?t of Safer*. aad
acts as a scppie*e®tea*y sfca, receiatiß*: the beat of
the body, i-vi aDoartar She e-roied rajx'crs aod
detMerioos casrs M riissspu* ritifcxss Madman.
lt ss evveootvai mart easily washed. a=«d d.-es
■M felt ~p or t£uefcea as a rase'.: el that ocenrxn.
SSroeked ia Under-career.« of tnrr fc-o for
Lad e* aad Mmil »«r. Special careers*
made t* cr ; ?c. rirbr by the yard.
CiS or write for fa 2 H'.sssrv'ei Pr.-re Lise —poK
tree.
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.,
73 & 75 King St, Sydney.
Sci-e Arm- fw *be Geßater CkKhea? O. - >* d.'sr
°F MUCH IMPORTANCE,
JUlenburys Foods.
The great success attending the use of the “AileuburTs” Mill Foods Is in a great mexsnre
w due to the two following important facts:—
(i) Ibar oT—~-«~rr c scasSMC to br .i.t. ~--c I tta
tsse $0; ry'jtr»e prOTcrd-ros.
• an —~
i be:
(a) Tze
n
tt-# sazai jru.i . «_ . ~ . .
Mixed whi «:cr locacdiz* o6e drrscs-M a —-* « » w#w * * =l *
»ia »i»d s<-t taji :« 'E*s*»r£ iai asdTrTa*»d by
t'tecs ae--Lg as *ssy at *§£L-.-'*r.,vz. as —igeraal -:.c. <
ran. rr-fvTary nuuidec 3T ~~cs 3»s '
The “ Alienborys ” Foods are especially vxlaable In hot dimates. iner ire in the
form of powder ±rd keep perfectly.
‘JO.-SK * If -f**GS Si*
H~r u*vi if m OSIC32J IMYJMJm m >TT***rf
Allen & H anbury s, L*<k. Qourt, Jsombmd SU London.
■ ILK FOOD No. 1.
rr-jTL b-.rrs t« art* jroitbs.
■ ILK FOOD No. 2. r
rnn rrtr to six e-or tbs.
HALTED FOOD No. 3.
Fran six seats* nd irrtrcs.
c
v
-■c
*
V
w
J
1/1
AUTOMATIC
adjustable
Hxmosav
THE BURR LIFT
—
4 P’3?S*T Win FM *a !ii
SIMPLE
SAFE SURE
* -K {? S* rape tie tew riaei
tbi -sac r
Tie tiCTf tcjiss tat *m&ns rDLaa*
3;'Vic Merik Sr rics
F*f -rst p uttoritn fr’©*”* t£M SO - —E
i CE f»r
■.«* tr itwi.
! 1 n
? i
SmmmmiHMmw *j«wi
E. RICH & CO., Ltd.
STMFT.
■ISM, HE
"AUENARIUS
White Ant Destroyer.
A Vftl-WSamKC i-u AiTISEPTK ML
Prereatrre x DECAY, DRY-ROT. FUNGUS, ar.d
OOD-DESTROYING INSECTS
CHEAPER THAN TAR.
rT I V :w pi»£ w ta»
*** i«twat rfttw ecwcsm?*
li rehsrj Of rHj« ■•dH-'w*
?si!»r nf li»r kjvr
rarrct *w*Cs sua* b Elesr
wtew snassnmc' W to*r*r
Mas lamiC* iC ta^mawm
tf T*ftW *fft
»nteo 3?*e Jir jaw
tbu Til Mil J’JM n roi «f
*
fci i r- :ts hr; Uw
E. RICH & CO., Limited,
“AYENARIUS"
* s ▼ jwt- t»jwc«<*nip Ctt »i 'Wfclrcn; ftet:?.
’T'w .-\nas% «*T i»te «qw£ 3mo* oc
•H*fc {-*«. «stt? « A? Imc at tome “ «•*
artwcr sr cßtuwr .-mnatEinna rhti
mV »wb iife* a luj .niom Ttott f«
*■«? rnaanaaMt uktvioi idM do* SMtB »
*»3 tovnuw*.
STWKT
sesame


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
VOL. 24.—N0, 1219.
SATURDAY, JUNE 27, 1903.
Priob 6d.
ET TU, BRUTE.
JOSEPH CHAMBERLAIN HAS ABANDONED THE FREETRADE IDEA AND DECLARED FOR AN IMPERIAL PROTECTIVE TARIFF


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Austral in for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ••• £1 6 . 0
Half-yearly ... ... ••• nvn
Quarterly ... ... ••• v / u t
NOTICK.
Du sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have Tire Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressed to the Editor.
Special Notice.
The <■ contents of tins paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number, is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the » Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of I olitical,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, SOOO words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
Tire Bulletin ivill return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. _ But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amu ten ns in 111 fide fin il, JVJiite.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted .for direct reproduction
~i.e. any picture which has to be re-drawn will be pft&a
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tire Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa — Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal ,* Solomon
and Wilson, 22 Hout St., Capetown; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban ; Argus
Printing 'Co., Rhodesia i Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
Ceylon.— Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
B.C.
Hono Kong.—Brewer and Co., 22 Queens Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai.— Brewer and Co.
ffieTSfeixlldfon.
SATURDAY, JUNE 27, 1903.
The “Great Natural Resources" of this
Country.
Most of these States are just now, or very shortly
will be, floating the usual loan to develop the
magnificent natural resources of this country,
and the present is as good a time as any to
consider the nature and reasons and alleged
advantages of the much-advertised borrowing pro-
cess. For the development of our vast natural
resources with loans has as much right to be put
on its defence, and called upon to show reasonable
cause for its existence, as any other policy. The
mere fact that it is a round, sonorous term, a
mouth-filling mass of syllables, a loud and
handy remark for the use of mentally-barren
politicians, a platitude that has become sacred
to the Herald and Telegraph, and to See
and Carruthers, and poor old Pa Brunker,
a large, fat bye-word or shibboleth that is sup-
posed to be in itself the explanation and defence
of every political foolishness—all these things are
nothing. The only possible excuse for the system
of borrowing immense sums for the development
of our unbounded natural resources is that by
that process the people of Australia become richer
and happier. If building railways with loan
money has only left the people poorer and more
miserable, then Australia might almost as well
have built pyramids; if borrowing money to make
roads and harbors has only resulted in making
the people more wretched, and the struggle
for life harder, then Australia might almost
as well have made a statue of Baal or
some other useless ornament. It is better
to have ox-waggons and be comfortable and
happy, than to have mortgaged railways and
be steeped in poverty. Unless the policy of
developing the huge natural resources of the
country with loan funds can show that it has at
least led to no diminution in the average citizen’s
share of happiness, then it hasn’t even a negative
virtue to put to its credit, and it would have been
better that no loans had been floated, and that
the development process had gone on as best it
could with our own means.
* * * *
Public finance is, in a general way, as good a
test as any of the public prosperity. It isn t an
infallible test, but it comes reasonably close to
being so. Taking New South Wales as an example
—one State is as good an example as another, and
New South Wales is the oldest State, the largest
borrower, and the one whicli publishes the most
complete statistics—it is worth while to consider
the evidence which its financial condition affords.
If the review commences about the year 1860 the
loan policy will be allowed 42 years in which to
vindicate itself, and a policy which can’t do some-
thing to vindicate itself in 42 years is too slow to
be worth serious consideration.
* ' * »-* *
In 1860 New South Wales had a debt of barely
£4 000,000— equal to less than £ll per inhabitant,
or’not much more -than'one-sixth of the present
figure. There was no accumulated deficit in those
days, and revenue covered expenditure quit®
easily. There was a very mild revenue tariff in.
1860; there was no land-tax and no income-tax,
nor was there any excise; the stamp duties
were much lower than they are now, and probate
duties had not begun to be thought of. And m
1860 the land revenue, in proportion to popula-
tion, was far less than it is now, and the headlong
disposal of the public estate had hardly com-
menced. Yet in that far-off period New South
Wales, as already mentioned, paid its way. It
had barely begun its great loan policy, and blatant
politicians did not then run to and fro with the
fury of later days, talking about the development
of our utterly flabbergasting natural resources.
That blighting phrase was hardly born 42 years
ago, and though New South Wales was steadily
developing, it was doing so, to a great extent, with
its own money. It had scarcely cut the first leaf
in the book of the great Gospel of Debt, or begun
to absorb the disastrous theory that the way to
grow rich is to owe more than any other country
on earth, and that the most beautiful thing a
country can import is a heap of embarrassments,
i * • * *
But the belief in the policy of making the people
rich by getting into debt was growing, and by
1870 the liabilities of New South Wales were close
on .£10,000,000. The process didn’t pan out well,
though there were few developments so far.
Instead of growing rich the people seemed to grow
a shade poorer, and the old sources of revenue
dried up to some extent. In 1871 it was found
necessary to greatly increase the customs tariff
and to sell land more vigorously in order to keep
the State afloat under the blessed and enriching
policy of developing its immense natural resources
out of loan funds. In theory the development of
these resources should have yielded enough to pay
interest on the loans and something over by way
of profit, for unless there was a profit the loan
system lacked vindication ; and that profit should
have enabled the State to reduce taxation instead
of increasing it. But despite the fact that there
was a woeful discrepancy somewhere the doctrine
of developing our splendid natural resources with
loans was preached with renewed vigor.
* * * *
So New South Wales proceeded to develop
its unlimited natural resources with more loans,
and the debt which had been less than £10,000,000
in 1870 touched £15,000,000 in 1880. A lot
of things began to happen about this
time. The land sales were multiplied threefold
in 1880 as compared with 1870, and in 1881 they
were multiplied fivefold as compared with 1870,
in order to raise money to keep New South Wales
out of the workhouse, where the process of
developing its great natural resources out of loans
threatened to send it. The customs duties were
increased in 1879 with the same end in view, and
stamp duties were imposed in 1880. Yet with all
this tremendous sacrifice of the public estate, and
these increased taxes, deficits began to appear
with considerable regularity. But the State still
kept its faith in the doctrine that it would neces-
sarily grow rich by raising money at the British
pawnshop to develop its incredible natural
resources, and the debt, which had been
£15,000,000 in 1880, became £30,000,000 in
1884. By this time it might have been reason-
ably hoped that the wealth which was to arise
through the development of the country’s brilliant
natural resources, on the mortgage principle,
would have begun to visibly assert itself, for the
public debt represented <£33 per inhabitant. And
the most reasonable and convincing way by which
the good results of the development process could
assert themselves was by making new taxes super-
fluous, by making it possible to remove some of
the old taxes, and by enabling the finances to keep
on an even keel.
... * *
And, instead of this, the year 1884 found the
developed New South Wales with the big debt
so much more embarrassed than an undeveloped
New South Wales with a small debt was in 1860
that it was found necessary to increase the customs
duties again, to impose new excise duties, to raise
.£1,750,000 out of the public estate, mostly by land
sales (as against £312,000 thus raised in I 860,) and
with all this there was a monstrous deficit of
£1,300,000. And even then the public faith in
the policy of developing the unparalleled natural
resources of the country out of foreign loans didn’t
diminish by one iota. In fact, it rather increased.
* * * *
By 1891 the loan doctrine had had another seven
years’ trial, and more things had happened to the
sudden and distressful Cornstalk State. The debt
had risen to £53,000,000, and if there was any
possible ground for the belief that the money thus
expended in the development of the dazzling
natural resources already alluded to not
only, directly or indirectly, paid the inter-
est on the debt, but also left a direct or
indirect margin for the general enrichment of the
country, it might be fairly assumed that that en-
richment would begin to become undeniably
apparent. Instead of that, however, things were
so much worse that a few more duties had been
put on in the struggle to make ends meet; a
deficit 0f£2,770,000 had been accumulated ; the
habit of charging .£500,000 or so of ordinary
expenditure to loans in order to keep up a pre-
tence of solvency had fairly set in ; and even with
the aid of this swindle, revenue had practically
given up all pretence of meeting expenditure.
By 1896 the process of enriching the country by
developing its resources on the loan principle had
progressed so much further that the income-tax be-
came a necessity, and the first beginnings of that
impost were collected. In 1897 the land-tax was
first collected. In 1899 the probate duties were
enormously increased, and in 1902 the new cus-
toms tariff fairly set in. By this time the debt,
which was £53,000,000 in 1891, was somewhere
about £78,000,000. There had been £25,000,000
more development, out of loans, of the practically
boundless natural resources of the country. The
“ judicious expenditure ” of that sum was not only
supposed to justify itself by earning its own
interest but also to leave something over to make
New South Wales a better, happier, and more
prosperous land than it had been before. And
somehow it was merely the old experience over
again. More taxes had been put on in the
struggle to keep the country’s head, weighed
down by the ghastly process of borrowing to
develop its immeasurable natural resources, above
water. The accumulated deficit was larger than
before. The swindle of charging ordinary expen-
diture to loans in order to make things look semi-
solvent, had grown to greater dimensions. And
the new loan to develop the utterly incalculable
natural resources of New South Wales is to-day
being floated as gaily as ever. Apparently the
delusion is incurabie.
* • * *
The record of the loan madness in its worst
form covers a period, so far as New South Wales
is concerned, of about 42 years. It isn’t long in
the lifetime of a State, but many things have hap-
pened in that period. New South Wales is really,
in proportion to its size, a desperately poor coun-
try, though richer than some of its neighbors. It
began by incurring £1 worth of debt to develop
resources worth 155., and as it used up or I ° w f < J
to drift into the hands of id>. e monopolists ts
patch of good country, and carried the opening up
process further and further out, it h 8 develop
reached a point where it borrows £1 to develop
something worth perhaps half-a orown,
something worth half-a-crown can t st f a •
under the debt. Every few years of borrowing
and developing have made the poople a little
poorer, made tl.e old sources of revenue a little
less profitable, and made new taxes • >
swindles necessary. In 42 years °f g
loan policy, N.S. Wales has sold all its best lands
and spent the proceeds; it has accumulated a
huge deficit and a huge army of unem-
ployed ; it has put on successively P
duties, excise duties, probate duties, increased
customs duties, land-tax, income-tax- an
years of developing the wonderful natural
resources of New South Wales with orl '
money have swallowed them all. The struggle to
make the public finances meet is ten times harder
now than it was in 1860. The undevelope
country that used to attract immigrants has
been, in its developed state, for the last
dozen years, a good country to get out oi.
And there is no visible reason to suppose that
another 42 years of borrowing, of developing two-
and-sixpence worth of desert with a pounds
worth of loan, of settling people on the
western dust, and giving them a mort-
gaged railway to take them there, and gratis seed
wheat to keep them there, and of empty
babbling about the necessity of raising more
money to develop our astonishing natural re-
sources, will produce any result save more taxes,
more deficits, and more disappointment. New
South Wales isn’t a heavily-taxed country even
yet, but it only needs to keep on “developing
and it will be. And then it will not have the
satisfaction of knowing that the extra taxes are
used to build remunerative public works, the
revenue from which will make it possible to
reduce taxes later on; nor that they are working
off an old dead horse; nor that they are prevent-
ing the dead horse becoming any deader. There
will still, if the loan policy continues, be nothing
ahead but more taxes. The loan delusion has
had a long enough trial to enable it to show any
possibilities of good that are in it, and it is due
for a long, long rest.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Flyspeck’s Labor Movement.
It is an astonishing thing that Tasmania has a
Labor party at all; but the toilers of the Wet
Spot, having wakened up sufficiently to return
four Labor members (very nearly five) at last
State elections, now seem desirous of staying
awake permanently, in order to astonish the
Commonwealth some more. The Labor League
Convention, held recently in Hobart, decided to
run three Labor candidates for the three Senate
seats shortly to become vacant. In reply to those
who opine that the Labor men are biting off
more than they can conveniently chew in
laying claim to all the seats, the Labor
people urge that, as they have to vote for
three candidates, they might as well vote
for their own three as assist candidates of the
Dobson breed with their “thrown-away ” votes
In thus figuring out the situation the Labor men
are perfectly correct; when a man must give three
votes it is not good enough to give the third one
to Dobson and Co. But with this enlarging of
the Labor horizon a very large question that has
long been urgent becomes more urgent than ever.
In three States—Queensland, Westralia, and Tas'
mania—the Labor party has already decided to
contest all three Senatorial seats. It is almost
certain that the labor unions are not strong enough
in Tasmania to win even one seat, and they are
probably not strong enough in any State to win
three. They need to attract votes from outside,
and to do that they require a wider platform than
they possess. It isn’t that they have too much
Labor legislation on their programme, but that
they haven’t enough of other kinds. A Labor
party that went bald - headed for high Pro-
tection, for a heavy graduated Federal land-
tax on large estates, for a Federal absentee-
tax, for the absolute refusal to borrow except for
the purpose of renewing State loans as they fall
due, for the taking over and consolidation of the
State debts, for Federal railway control and a
Federal public works policy supported solely out
of revenue, would attract a lot of friends to whom
a Labor programme by itself appeals but very
slightly. It should attract among others the
reasonable section of the manufacturers (not the
low-wage section), the oppressed tenants of the big
land monopolists, the people who want land, and
the increasing crowd which is scared at the'huge
accumulation of public debt. So far the Federal
Labor party has done good service as the oppon-
ent of Commonwealth borrowing, but it has
gained little credit for it because it has not de-
clared that financial independence is a permanent
feature of its policy ; it has only opposed, up to
now, in an accidental kind of way. The unions,
by themselves, are not strong enough to get con-
trol of Parliament —which is, presumably, their
object ; a political party that doesn’t aim at
getting control of Parliament had better go out of
politics. The question to be considered is: What
principles can the party honestly add to its plat-
form in order to bring in a wider circle of voters
—what principles which don’t conflict with its
existing policy, which are not already annexed,
and which are for the good of the country?
The permanent anti-borrowing policy, the policy
of constructing Federal public works out of
revenue, and the principle of Federal direct
taxation and Federal bursting up of big estates
are all waiting for an advocate. They are all
clean, democratic, and progressive ideas, and
they would all bring votes. The Labor party,
in addition to going solidly for Protection,
should annex those principles while they are
lying around loose. If it doesn’t, some time-
server of the Reid variety will take them up for
mere advertising purposes, and use them to attract
votes that the Labor party should get.
Keeping* our own Money in the Country
or Borrowing 1 Other People’s Money.
Few theories have evoked more tremendous scorn
from the haughty and superior Freetrade person
than the Protectionist statement that his aim is
to “Keep the money in the country.” “You
can’t eat money,” says the blatant importer. “It
is mere barbarism to hoard it up. The true use
of money is to send it abroad for the purchase of
useful and necessary articles.” And the same
person says that this country wants, above all
things, an influx of capital for investment so as to
“develop our magnificent natural resources,”
and his paper complains bitterly that the conduct
of the Labor party is “ preventing the investment
of outside capital in the country.” Therefore the
Freetrade man holds that it is no earthly use
keeping our own money in the country in
order to “develop our great natural resources ”
for our own benefit, and at the same time if we
don’t get other people’s money to come here at
heavy interest to “develop our great natural
resources” for the benefit of the foreign investor
we are lost. The Freetrader says that having our
own money in the country is an unenlightened
and miserly hoarding up of useless sovereigns, but
that having somebody else’s money here and con-
sequently being in debt, is an enlightened policy
of development. The Protectionist view is that
if we manufactured more we wouldn’t need to
import so much ; if we imported less we wouldn t
need to send away so much money to pay for im-
ports ; consequently there would be money
of our own in the country available for
“development.” When N.S.W. wanted to
start the Sydney Harbor Colliery it went
to England for the money, because so much
money goes out to pay for imports that the
necessary funds weren’t available here—conse-
quently the colliery is owned in England. Ihe
other day N.S.W. rejoiced when it heard that its
biggest gold mine had been sold to an English
company—there being no money available locally
because it had gone to pay. for the states
£17,000,000 a year of foreign imports. rv.S. n.
felt that a load had been lifted off its mind a very
little while ago when the See Government man-
aged to borrow £1,000,000 in London at 4iper
cent., though if we increased our local manufac-
tures to the extent of £1,000,000 a year, and sen
away £1,000,000 less to pay for foreign shoddy, tne
money would have been available locally, and the
£42,500 interest would have been spent locally)
and there would be £1,000,000 worth more worx
and wages for our own people. The Freetra
says that the policy of “Keeping the Money i
the Country ” is a barbarism. Isn t the money
wanted in the country ? Likewise isn t
country always borrowing publicly and pnva my
just because money is wanted in the coun ry •
Isn’t the Freetrade press always weeping becau
foreign capital (in other words, foreign debt] l
coming into the country fast enough, and all
because we want money in the country,
the Labor party always being told by the r
trade papers that its policy is driving out tore g
capital (i.e., foreign debt), and that the ®y
we so badly want kept in the country is g
away ? If the Freetrade party made one-
as much row when <£10,000,000 of our own 111
goes out of the country to pay for foreign. g_
that we could manufacture ourselves, as 1
when £lOO,OOO of somebody else’s coin that t
invested here, and cost us 5 per cent, m
annually, is withdrawn, Australia would
better and brighter than it is.
♦ *
The Suicidal Tory.
It is commonly believed, that the Philp
ment of Queensland, which has a great admi , te9
for the ways of Irvine and Bent, cop temp
following their example in the partial disiia
The Land Without a Fast.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
««Go where you may, except in Australia,” says Jos.
Symes, “ you find the face of the earth covered with
ruined buildings, or you find the remains of ancient cities
covered up with the accumulated dust of centuries."
No civilisation has been buried here. Has one been born.?
— Bulletin Red Page, May 30, 1903.
Not a story of our glory—not a single Pyramid
Tells a tale of heroes parted and the wondrous
deeds they did;
Luckless land without banditti, robber barons,
pirate city—
What the mischief were you doing ’—where the
dickens were you hid ?
Not a temple, not an altar, not a monument of
old,
Not a fiction writ on vellum, not a pillar on the
wold,
Not a token there behind us, not a single thing to
bind us
To an ancient golden period in this barren land
of Gold.
We’ve the sand —but where’s the Mecca? Who
has stole our Bethel stone ?
And our old Australian monarchs—did they never
build a throne?
Were their temples only bunya—was their palace
but a gunyah ?
Did they leave us naught to rev’rence but a
dubious bit of bone?
Happy Moujik ! He can revel in the mem’ry of
a Czar
Who could harness olden Moujiks just like cattle
to a car;
Lucky Celt and lucky Cossacks—lucky Tyrol,
lucky Trosachs !
Only lands without a story know what happy
lands you are.
And we ponder on the problem till we query all
aghast—
Is it possible our country never had a blessed past ?
While the Hindu, young and hoary, boasts a
splendid age of story —
By the shade of previous Chaos all our day is
overcast.
Oh !to toast a single despot-who—a thousand
years ago—
Razed the city, howled a ditty, filled the land
with tears and woe,
Spilt the blood of brother Abel, built an idiot
tower of Babel,
Left a line of queer descendants with an intellect
of dough.
Think how Egypt, glorious Egypt, in her pleni-
tude of fat,
Mid a thousand tow’ring temples, as a queen
exalted, sat,
How at hundred gated Thebes, Coptic youths and
Coptic hebes
Thronged to pay their lowly homage to the
Crocodile and Cat!
So our outlook in the Future—it must needs be
grim and bad,
For a folk with no ancestors is a solemn folk and
sad ;
And we feel the days before us wave a sable pinion
o’er us,
While the Present standeth weeping for the Past
it never had !
P. LUFTIG.


ment of the public service. If it does The
Bulletin, for one, however much it may recognise
the injustice of the proceeding, won’t grieve very
much. In one sense this paper would like to see
the lory reaction in State politics go further than
it has done-much further. For no matter how
many people Philp and Bent may disfranchise in
the State Parliaments, they can’t deprive anybody
of the Commonwealth franchise. The Australian
Constitution contains sufficient powers to crush
the Tory faction which supports Bent and Irvine
and Philp like a house of cards, if onlv these
clumsy fools aggravate the people to the point of
using their powers. Every man whom the
Victorian House of Rich Landlords insults or
wrongs or disfranchises has a Federal vote which
he can use in support of a Federal graduated
land-tax that will strike the Rich Landlord to the
extent of 4d. or 6d. in the £, and fall on the Arous
office property and the accumulated wealth of
David Syme like an avalanche. If the State Old
Age Pensions are cut down from 10s. to 7s. a week,
that only hastens the time when the workers wili
direct the Federal Parliament to grant Old Age
Pensions of possibly 11s. a week—and tax the big
landowners to supply the money. It is well for
every Torv member of every House of Landlords
to remember that the [jower to levy unlimited
taxation on his land, his income, his jobs, on
the accumulated pile he will leave at his death,
rests with a Legislature in which the toiler he
insults, and the civil servant he disfranchises, and
the railway worker he bullies, and the old age
pensioner he wrongs, have as much power as he
has more, in fact, because they are more numer-
ous. So far no one has attempted to organise a
direct taxation party in the Australian Parlia-
ment ; no one, for instance, has preached to the
tenants of the Clarkes and Manifolds the
advisability of voting to tax their landlords
through the Commonwealth Legislature until they
are compelled to sell their big estates and give
their tenants a chance to become freeholders on
moderate terms. But it only requires that the
Tory party should become sufficiently exasperat-
ing, and that will come. The Tory party is insult-
ing its masters. They don’t realise' yet that,
through the medium of the Australian Parliament,
they are its masters, but the more they are insulted
the sooner they will realise it.
«
About Some Letters.
The very latest alarm, as published by a Sydney
morning paper
HOW CAPITAL IS SOARED.
Commonwealth Infringing State Rights.
Brisbane, Saturday.—Letters which have been received
from England from persons who are in a position to
closely judge on such matters give doleful accounts of
the effects of the tendency of the Commonwealth legisla-
tion, so far as the investment of capital in Australia and
emigration from England to these States are concerned.
It is said that until the Federal Restriction Act is abol-
ished or amended there is no chance of either capital or
individuals coming to the States. Both public and
private credit are being seriously affected, and though
the policy of the Queensland Government gives encourage-
ment to allow capital to flow this way, money holders are
frightened off by the Socialistic legislation of the Com.
monwealth.
The letters advise the States to fight for their rights,
and the opinion is expressed that if they are united they
will be successful.
Again we have here the doleful alleged fact that
we are losing a chance to get further into debt;
and the gloom therein embodied rests on the
authority of alleged letters, written to some one
not specified, by some one not specified, and
coming from some part of England which is
evidently a secret, on a date which apparently
has to be kept dark for reasons of State. Prob-
ably there are no such letters; but if they do
exist, the chances are that some one in Brisbane
has written to some one in England stating that
the Federal Parliament has started a gory revolu-
tion, and some one has written back saying that
in that case he won’t send out the post-office
order he intended forwarding until the upheaval
is over. As for the “ Commonwealth infringing
State Rights,” that is such an obvious falsehood
that though the editor publishes the big heading
he doesn’t dare to allege one “right” that has been
infringed. Meanwhile The Bulletin is glad to be
able to inform the public that it is in receipt of
letters from influential persons in Greece and
Honduras, in which the writers give it as their
fixed opinion that Australia will never prosper
until the State Governments are wholly abolished,
and a Federal Labor party runs the whole show.
These letters are probably just as genuine as the
other lot.
A Petition.
The other day poor little Bill Wilks, M.H.R.,
presented to the House of Reps, a petition from a
number of persons protesting against Premier
Barton’s visit to the Pope, his acceptance from
the Pope of a medal, and his alleged assurance to
the Pope that while he (Barton) was in power
the Catholics of the Commonwealth would receive
a larger share of liberty and benefits than they
received in other parts of the Empire. The peti-
tion also prayed the House to oppose the
conferment on Barton of any position of honor
or dignity in the Commonwealth until his
action had been endorsed by the electorates.
Now the electorates can’t “endorse ’ Premier
Barton’s action in this matter at next election
unless all the urgent questions of the day —an im-
proved tariff, old age pensions, land-tax, debt
consolidation, absentee-tax, sinking fund, trans-
continental railway and everything else are
dropped and the contest is fought out on the
question of Yellow Pupism pure and simple. Tt
would be necessary, in order to get an endorsement
or condemnation of Barton’s visit to the Pope, to
elect a new Australian Parliament solely on the
question whether Barton ought to have called on
a pleasant old gentleman of 93, or not. Unless
the election was fought on that question it couldn t
decide whether the people approved Barton s
action or not. And after that the Parliament
would endure for three years, and the man who
got in solely because he was a screaming yellow
dervish would decide about what to do with
our £200,000,000 of debt, and the man whose
sole qualification was that he was a howling
green dervish would commit the country to a rail-
way or taxation policy, and so on. Premier
Barton himself has explained over and over again
that the statement on which a great part of the
petition was based is a lie, an d_ that he didn t pro-
mise Catholics “ a larger share of liberty and
benefits,” &c. And there is this much m his favor,
that he was present at the interview, while Wilks
and his friends were not, so that they cqji only
depend on their imaginations for their statement
as to what transpired. Considering all the gross
and wilful lies that the Wilks party has told
about the “exclusion” and “imprisonment of
the Six Blathers, its word is certainly not good
enough when it assures the public on a matter
that it can’t possibly know anything about. As
regards the mere visit to the Pope, if Premier
Barton should be thrown out for that then
King Edward YII. should be dethroned for
doing exactly the same thing, and the Wilks
gang hmd better include him in its condemnation.
ut Australia doesn’t really care a straw whether
•dakton visited the Pope or not. It knows that
arto n is a Protestant — though not so petty and
uncivil a Protestant as Wilks—and it wouldn’t
u knew him be aR.C. so long as it knows
tnat he isn t going to start an Inquisition, or endow
monkeries with public funds. And it certainly
f Sn .| P re P are d to entrust its whole public business
tor three years to the stupid, ignorant, narrow-
minded bigots of the Abigail type who fight elec-
tions on either green or yellow tickets. Wilks
has the ineffable shame and disgrace of being the
first man—or the first mean political rat—who has
tried to bring the dirty sectarian issue into
federal legislation. At election time the only
sectarian issue is the necessity for throwing out
every candidate who seeks to intrude either his
green or yellow sentiments, or who asks for either
a green or yellow vote, or who travels on the holy
ticket in any way whatsoever.
+- -
Settling on the Land.
“ J.E.W.” writes from Tasmania :
Oo.’s land in Tasmania. I have been all
round the N.W. Coast, lately, looking for land upon which
to settle. I was advised to look in at theV.D.L. Co.’s
office at Burnie, and have a chat with the new manager
lately out from England, “as he was anxious to settle
people on the land, and was granting easy terms.” I
saw the manager. He advised me to look at Ridgely,
Hampshire Hills, and Surrey Plains. The terms were :
Seven years’ lease at easy rental, with option of renewal
at slightly increased rate. I was to fence and clear the
land, and make it fit for cultivation. (Only those who have
seen Tasmanian bush land know what clearing really
means. The undergrowth is cut out, but the great
trees are all on the land—either standing or lying down.)
I was also to build a house and all other necessary out-
buildings. If I had not the means, it didn’t matter;
they would build the places, and I could pay the co. for
them with per cent, added. No price mentioned
until I looked at the land. I went to Ridgely,
10 miles south from Burnie, on railway-line to
Zeehan. The estate consisted of good and of poor land,
mostly broken country. The land was cut up into blocks
of from 25 to 100 acres. This in the plan only. There
were no roads marked anywhere. The Co. was going to
make roads through, but if I took one of those blocks as
marked in the plan it seemed just likely that when my
neighbor wanted a road, it would have to be cut through
my paddock. You don’t know where a road will go
in broken, hilly country. When I returned to the
office I asked the price of some of these blocks, and was
told I could have one at £1 per acre per year on the
terms afore mentioned ! or I could have a piece of poor
grazing country—mostly broken and stones—for 7s. 6d.
per acre per annum. I asked then, in the event of my
leaving after my first term of 7 years was up, would they
allow me any compensation for improvements put on the
land by me. Certainly not ! It was to my own
benefit to improve the land. I hear that the Co. is
putting up rents 100 per cent, all round where leases are
falling due (and there are a goodly number). I’m not
doing business with the Co. just now. I think it would
be cheaper and more satisfactory to do business with the
devil.
—. *
Tozer.
Queensland’s Tozer has been writing angry
letters to Australian Premier Barton. As a State
Agent-General, Tozer has authority to issue cer-
tificates _of exemption under the Immigration
Restriction Act, and he says he was waited upon
by a family which “ wanted to take to Queensland
its domestic servants of long service,” and he was
“compelled to inform the applicants that the
exemption they sought could not be granted.”
Whereupon Tozer passes some scornful remarks
about a polic) T which shuts out “valets and
ladies’maids ” —which it doesn’t do. Valets and
ladies’ maids can come in by the gross if they
want to dp so. All the law says is just what the
United States law says: They shall not come
bound by any contract. If the “domestic ser-
vants of long service” have sufficient confidence
in their master and mistress to come with them
on their mere verbal promise that they will have
employment on arrival, the law puts no difficulty
in the way. They may sign an agreement after
landing, and it will hold good. What the law seeks
is to prevent people importing contract workers—
who may possibly be engaged at rates which
looked good enough in the country from which
they came, but which wouldn’t hold skin and bone
together here ; they may contract as much as they
like, but the contract must be made here,
so that the parties have a fair chance to
know the conditions and the local values of
money. Of course, if the people Tozer has been
dealing with are such a villainously bad lot that
their servants dare not accompany them without
a written agreement, nothing can be done, but
that doesn’t alter the fact that Tozer’s statement
as to the nature of the Australian Immigration
Law is utterly untrue. Certain powers of
exemption exist, but the Australian Government
has wisely decided not to leave the exercise of
these to Tozer. Australia doesn’t know Tozer,
and didn’t appoint him Agent-General, and cer-
tainly wouldn’t appoint him if it did know him.
Everything depends upon the administration of
the Immigration Restriction Act; and the Aus-
tralian Government isn’t, therefore, likely
to hand over that administration to a per-
son over whom it has no authority and
who, for all it knows, may be in the pay
of people who want to defeat the measure. The
error that the Australian Government commits is
in making it possible for Tozer to pass these
remarks. It ought not to have anything to do
with Tozer ; but, as it hasn’t a Commissioner of
its own on the other side, it practically has to give
some power to the State Tozers, and this leads to
all the trouble. The quickest and best way out is
to appoint that High Commissioner.
«,
Reduction of Members.
N.B.W. Premier John See is probably bitterly
sorry that he ever pledged himself to a reduction
of Parliament. Members of his own party don’t
like the idea because, coming as they do mainly
from the country districts, they see in it the
prospect of the already vast electorates “out-
back’ being further extended, to the great incon-
venience of their representatives; the Labor
party objects, partly for the same reason,
partly because the idea is associated with Irvinism
and Bentism, and it would be almost excusable
to view the Archangel < Gabriel with dark
suspicion if any of his views were adopted by
Irvine or Bent. The only persons really enthusi-
astic about the reduction are the daily newspaper
proprietors, which have an unreasonable hatred
of the politician ever since Parliament interfered
with their subsidies. The Carruthers following
professes to be eagerly with the newspapers on the
subject, but that is only because it wishes to
whoop on the same side in the hope of getting
thereby to the sweets of office. Whilst, therefore;
a reduction of the present State Parliamentary
machine is a reasonable and logical consequence of
Federation and an appropriate beginning to the
fading away of State legislatures altogether; and
is, especially if accompanied by a local govern-
ment system, most urgent and desirable,
it has few friends outside of a little Tory
gang anxious to see Irvinism enthroned in
N.S.W. Still Premier See pledged himself to
a reduction and, not having the facility of a
George Reid or a Carruthers in somersaulting,
he considers himself bound in some way to that
promise; so he has taken a middle course and
will, at the time of the Federal Senate elections,
refer the reduction question to a vote of the
electors. The Bulletin hopes that that referen-
dum will put the question of Parliamentary
curtailment fully and fairly before the voters.
There are two suggestions for reduction —one that
the members of the Assembly be reduced to 90 or
80 or 70; the other that the second House of
Parliament—the practically useless, though some-
what ornamental, Upper House —be retrenched
out of existence. The people should be asked to
vote on both these proposals —and there is no
reason why they should not accept both. At
present there are 125 members of the Assembly and
60 members of the Council —185 State politicians.
One proposal would reduce the number by, say, 30
the other by 60—both together might_ make a
reduction of 90. The cost of the Council, allow-
ing for its frill, public offices, railway passes,
rent, &c., is £21,000 a year. The cost of 30 mem-
bers of the Assembly, allowing for salaries and
railway passes (the latter reckoned as worth £lOO
a year), is £12,000 a year. The economy of abolish-
ing the Council would thus be as great as that of
reducing the Assembly by 50 members, even on a
mere surface consideration of the case. Looking
deeper and taking into consideration the saving
of time in having only one set of gentlemen to
debate measures, and the consequent curtail-
ment of Hansard, the economy shows as vastly
greater. If reduction of members is intended
as a matter of economy only, then clearly
the most effective economy is by abolition
of the useless Second Chamber. But there are
stronger reasons for urging that step. Upper
Houses were imposed upon the Australian States
in weak imitation of the British House of Lords,
partly from the desire of the Tory British Legis-
lature of a century ago to perpetuate conditions
which were then deemed to be right, but which
have long since been shown to be absurd ; partly
from the ambition of the richer classes of the
early Australians to have available for themselves
a small titulary distinction. In N.S.W. the
Upper House was most closely modelled on the
British House of Lords; and, consequently, has
proved the least obstructive of all the Austra-
lian Second Chambers, being at any time liable
to “swamping” if it opposed the popular House.
But it has never fulfilled any genuinely useful
purpose, except that of providing a pleasant club
for well-to-do elderly retired politicians. In
abolishing it, N.S.W. would only follow the
example of the majority of the Canadian States.
Of the seven States of the Canadian federation,
only two —Quebec and Nova Scotia—have second
Houses. Five—New Brunswick, Ontario, Mani-
toba, British Columbia and Prince Edward Island
—have but a single house. The North-west Terri-
tories of Canada are also administered by a single
house of Parliament. There is thus no lack
of precedent—if precedent be needed. There is
a reasonable hope of the people of N.S.W. voting
for the lopping off of the useless and expensive
Legislative Council, if given the opportunity at
the referendum, and democrats in Parliament
should see that they get the opportunity. A vote
on the suggestion to reduce the Assembly only
would be obviously incomplete, like suggesting to
a farmer, as a means to economy, the reduction
of his team of working horses, without allowing
him to choose as an alternative the retrenchment
of his ornamental, but not strictly useful, buggy
horse.
«.
Wanted : A Victorian Liberal
Association.
A letter from “ F.S.” :
If ever Victoria needed a thoroughly live Liberal Asso-
ciation it is now. Both the Federal and State elections
are within sight—the latter should, but won’t, be held
this November —and unless some active measures are
promptly adopted, the high carnival of reactionary Tory-
ism that at present holds the State in its grip will secure
a new lease of life. The Federal elections, which will
probably take place in December, claim first attention,
particularly with regard to the Senate. When the initial
elections were held, the conditions and requirements
were so novel that the various political parties failed to
properly realise the position ; and, unluckily, most of the
“failing” fell to the lot of the Liberal party. Conse-
quently the Victorian contribution to the Senate was—
Fraser, Zeal, Sargood, Styles, Best, and Barrett. We
have since seen the Senate at work, and the Liberal
elector is beginning to discover that not only is it a great
power ; but that, owing to its franchise being the widest
on the globe, it promises to be the great Liberal strong-
hold of Australia. The late Senator Sargood saw this
when he stood for a seat in it, and complained mildly of
its “ dangerous Liberalism.”
Intelligent Liberals who have followed the Senate’s
deliberations have come to the conclusion that, prac-
tically, the whole of Victoria’s present contribution to
the Senate must go. Owing to the clause in the Con-
stitution which makes the Senate semi-continuous, only
half of the present senators come before the electors this
year ; and it is a sad feature of the business that the most
objectionable of the whole lot, Zeal, is safe for another
three years. Victoria’s piebald half-dozen includes three
prize crusted Tories— Zeal, Fraser, and the alleged
Senator Reid ; with three very ordinary Liberals— Best,
Barrett, and Styles. Of the three Tories, only Reid,
the young man from Brisbane, will be called on to face
the music this year, and the first business of the Victorian
Liberal party will be to make sure that his short and
ignoble senatorial career comes to a full stop. No stone
should be left unturned to make the re-election of this
Ir viNE-nominated, Brisbane-exposed person impossible.
The position of Styles and Barrett is somewhat
anomalous and awkward. Styles has, through his ill-
health, been practically useless ; while Barrett, whose
election was solely due to his inclusion in the Age ticket,
has been almost a nonentity. If the Liberal party is
well advised, it will endeavor to secure the candidature
of, say, Higgins, Trenwith and MacKinnon, three power-
ful democrats, whose inclusion in the Senate would go
far towards removing the well-grounded reproach that
Victoria’s contribution to the Commonwealth’s Upper
House is the weakest of the lot. At present, Higgins
represents North Melbourne in the House of Reps., but
this is a seat that the Liberals can easily hold with
another and weaker man. Trenwith still stands for Rich-
mond in the State Assembly, where MacKinnon repre-
sents Prahran. Trenwith’s election to the Senate depends
simply on his allowing his name to appear as a candi-
date. He was chosen for the ’9l Convention without
addressing a single meeting outside of Richmond, and on
a total expenditure of £3 Bs. Higgins, also, would be
fairly easy to return, but the Liberals would need to keep
awake to make his calling and election sure. MacKinnon,
though rapidly coming into public notice, would require
the most support. It is self-evident, however, that if the
Liberals could induce these three democratic stalwarts to
enter the field on their behalf, and if the party at the
same time set to work to organise its voting strength,
the election could easily be carried. A fortunate feature
of the approaching contest is the fact that the Age will
not have half the influence it possessed three years ago.
Its action in supporting the lawless Irvine Government
through thick and thin has caused it to completely lose
the confidence of the Labor and Democratic party, so
that its ticket will be, in the words of Bottom, the weaver,
“ a thing of naught.”
♦
Extract from speech by one of the hired agitators
of the Victorian Employers’ Union :
The thing killing the country to-day was a two-legged
thing called man. If capital stood solidly, the other
must go to the wall.
This amazingly frank individual, it will be
noticed, doesn’t class his Tory employers with
“man.” Heevidently considers them to be hog. At
all events he considers them to be some animal that
is distinct from “man,'’ and if his animal or beast
gets the upper hand “ man ” is to go to the wall.
The Employers’ Union, according to this frank
exponent of things, represents the revolt of the
three-legged stool, or the four-legged monstrosity,
or the cuttle-fish or the centipede with many
legs, or the boa-constrictor which has none,
or something of that sort, against the “two-legged
thing called man.” It is just as well to have
the situation explained, and the public owes a
debt of gratitude to the Employers’Union agitator
for making it clear that his party regards itself,
without any disguise whatever, as an uprising of
the brute creation and a general upheaval of
things which have no soul.
The parochial “reform” parties, the parochial
press, the parish pump politicians are all evidently
going to fight to the bitter end against the
creation of a Federal High Court and a Federal
Inter-State Commission. The bogus cry of
“economy” is the plea, but the real object is to
exalt the importance of the States and to restrict
the Federal idea. The intention is to prevent the
Australian Government exercising the power
given it by the Constitution to suppress wars of
railway rates, to prevent it having a Judiciary
of its own, and to compel it to apply for
legal decisions to Judges appointed and paid by,
and subject to, its subordinate States. In other
words, the idea is that the boss of the establish-
ment should always have to appeal for justice to
the nominee of the office-boy. The great hope of
the Australian democracy lies in the assertion
and extension of the powers of the Australian
Legislature—the only absolutely democratic Par-
liament in Australasia—and in this matter the
democratic party is not backing up the Barton
Government with half the energy it ought to
show.
According to the Melbourne daily paper report
this astounding thing has come to pass :
Justice a’Beckett, sitting in the Second Civil Court
yesterday, delivered his reserved judgment in the suit
brought by Alfred James Smith for the nullity of his
marriage with Sarah Jane Smith, on the ground that
respondent was a niece of his deceased wife, and thus
within the prohibited degrees of marriage as defined in
the Prayer Book of the Church of England, and desertion
for three years and upwards.
In Victoria marriage with a deceased wife’s sister
is legal, and the natural inference would seem to
be that marriage with a deceased wife’s sister’s
daughter would be legal also. If the lady can’t
hand down to her daughter her legal marriage
rights along with her color and her nationality,
then the latter might almost as well be the Greek
daughter of British parents, or two white people’s
black baby. The law didn’t specify that the
deceased wife’s sister’s marriage privileges would
descend to her daughter, probably because it
never expected any one to call the matter
in question, just as it never thought of pass-
ing a Bill to declare that the offspring of a
dog should be regarded as a dog and not as a
horse, and should have all the privileges, if any,
attached to its status as a dog. Anyhow, the
question having arisen, Judge a’Beckett had a
right to settle it according to the letter of the
law, or the apparent intention of the law if he
couldn’t find any letter, or according to common
sense if any such article was lying about and if no
law was available. But the Prayer Book of the
Church of England, or the Confession of Faith of
the Church of Scotland, or the bull of the Church
of Rome, or the visions of the Church of Latter-
Day Saints are not Australian law, and Justice
a’Beckett might gum that fact in his hat for
future reference.
4
“ Burglar Bill ” writes :
Let me have a snarl at present police methods of
obtaining “ identifications ”of suspects. The manner in
which His Honor stresses the point, and the way it
smothers up any evidence for the defence which may
have found a corner in the juryman’s mind, proves that
it is high time the farce was conducted with some show
of dectncy. Identification is done in the secrecy of a
prison yard by a would-be Sherlock Holmes who is trying
to weld his links together, and he staggers into court under
its immense weight, and throws it with a thud on the
prisoner’s pitiful little defence so that the court resounds.
If the witness is not “primed” by a hint dropped “acci-
dentally” his vanity is scratched so vigorously by the
“tec.” that he becomes positively dangerous. “Sure
you’re bound to pick the hangdog 1" “ Faith, you’re
smart enough to pick the hard-faced devil 1 ” are not
uncommon remarks from detectives anxious to obtain a
conviction. Have known repeated cases of wit-
nesses picking the wrong man, and, in, response
to the “tec’s.” directions, to “have another
go” they have again failed. Yet nothing is heard in
court of the witness’s two unsuccessful attempts to pick
the prisoner. All the Grown might admit would be
“ that the witness failed to identify prisoner.” Have
heard second timers say that one detective in conducting
his “ identifications” always stood close up to the.*.*. right
man ” and looked intently at him while the witness was
considering. Until an improved way is found, and a
penalty provided for the flash fool who identifies the
wrong man, his Honor and the jury should push the
“ identification ” evidence aside as being entirely unre-
liable as testimony of the prisoner’s guilt.
The Kyabramapootra “Reform” party field a
violent meeting the other day to protest against
“Federal extravagance.” Being asked by Pre-
mier Barton to supply details of any past extra-
vagance it objected to, the obscene bird met
together again and screamed incoherently, but
supplied no details. For the future, however, The
Fowl objects to the establishment of a High
Court and the appointment of a Commissioner in
London. In this matter the Kyabramapootra is
as illogical, as usual. As regards the Commis-
sioner, he will be a saving, not an expense, to
Victoria, if Victoria’s Kyabram Government will
only do its share by abolishing its separate State
representative. As for the High Court, it is
needed to put the boss ’Pootra, Irvine,
in gaol next time he tries to pass
laws authorising any Victorian J.P. to
lock up the Federal Postmaster-General for 12
months for carrying by post papers that Irvine
doesn’t approve of. Also, the Commonwealth
Government has seen so much of Irvine that it
doesn’t feel inclined, if it has a legal dispute with
Victoria, to trust the decision entirely to a Vic-
torian judge whom Irvine’s Parliament can sack
if he doesn’t decide the case as the Kyabrama-
pootra would like him to do. Supreme Court
judges are certainly supposed to occupy an inde-
pendent position—yet when Chief Justice Lillet,
of Queensland, gave a decision adverse to that
State’s ’Pootra, the Boodle Government ended his
judicial career very suddenly indeed.
4.
America’s new Immigration Law, passed 3rd
March, 1903, is far and away the most restrictive
on earth. Among totally forbidden immigrants
are now “those who have, within one year of the
date of application for admission to the U.S., been
deported as being under offers, solicitations, pro-
mises, or agreements to perform labor or service
of some kind therein.” The U.S. law would have
not only sent back the Six Hatters peremptorily ;
it would also have made them incapable of enter-
ing the country under any circumstances at all for
a whole year. Restricted immigrants who may
have managed to enter may be deported at any
time within two years. Also, others prohibited
include “any persons whose tickets may have


The EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
FINANCIAL STATEMENT
FOR YEAR ENDED 31st DECEMBER, 1932.
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
INCREASE IN ASSURANCE IN FORCE ..
£.265.597,775
£19,915,124
ASSETS •• •• £73,855,783
INCREASE IN ASSETS .. .. .. .. .. .. £4,889,175
SURPLUS .. .. £15,418,151
INCREASE IN SURPLUS .. .. . . . . £620,434
THE NEW BUSINESS EXCEEDED THAT OF 1901 by ... £6,565,178
Local Directors have powe* to Issue Policies, Pay Claims, etc.
•Sir WILLIAM M‘MILLAN, K.C.M.G., Chairman; Hon. C. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.
F. NORTON MANNING, Esq., M.D.
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager Tor Australasia.
F. C. COWLEY, Secretary. ALEX. JOBSON, Actuary for Australasia. DAVID FELL, Auditor.
S. W D’ARCY IRVINE, F.S.S., Manager for N.S.W. aud Queensland.
Patriotism Exalteth a Nation.
Thu may not be quite orthodox, but it is nevertheless true. It is also a fact that in N.S.W.
patriotism is sadly lacking in its people. Parochialism and selfishness are rampant every-
where-in 1 arhament and People. Instead of AUSTRALIAN MANUFACTURED GOODS
ot equal merit to the Foreign-made Article being preferred, they are only taken if CHEAPER-
the very men who cry the loudest, “ AUSTRALIA FOR THE AUSTRALIANS! "—even to
m -u ?' U ot kee P' n K out the English Hatters-are those who, from pure prejudice, caR
Article in preference to the Australian production. This is not the
1- nt that prevails m America, and which has made it the greatest country on the face of
tne earth. There nothing is good unless it is “ ’Murkan," and so it must be here if we are
to become a Nation. The Rosewarne Packing Co., Limited, have lately added to the other
oranches of their canning business the manufacture of Potted Ham and other Meats, in
SvaSiA. JS ur ' ounce tins - The Packages are neatly got up, the contents are AT LEAhT
T0 ’ AN ,°. THE PRICE IS LOWER THAN, TOE IMPORTED ARTICLE. Be
ThlV mn, 6 !? , to Blv * them , a trial, and you will find that they are REALLY GOOD.
' • )e the Principal Storekeepers and Grocers.
been paid for with the money of another, or who
may have been assisted by others to come to
America.” Yet the protected U.S. gets the very
choicest human goods offering, while the open
door of England brings but the scum and wastrels
of the earth—the great Polish Jew element
mostly.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Lyceum. “ Nightbirds of London.”
Royal “ If I Were King.”
Tivoli; Rickards’Co.
Palace “ Way Down South."
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “Chinese Honeymoon."
Her Majesty’s “ Arizona.”
Theatre Royal “ Breaking of the Drought.”
Bijou “ Mrs. Goldstein.”
Opera House ......... Rickards’VaudevilleOo.
»
“Sherlock Holmes,” the detective with
the long, pale face and high and mighty ways,
returned from a six months’ tour of Maoriland to
Sydney Royal last Saturday. Individuals of theco.
all look fatter, and their playing is no thinner
Cuyler Hastings’s red dressing-gown has become
very shabby; report has it that he took the boil-
ing mud-bath cure wearing that garment. The
roles of Mabel Lane, May Chevalier, Hamilton
Stewart and Atholwood, and all the cut-throats
and safe-breakers in the piece, though familiar, are
still as acceptable as water to those a-thirst. As
for the great central character he is just as ele-
gantly impossible as ever, and his fixed expression
hasn’t thawed, and he leaves his cigar on the
mantelpiece in the darkened room with the same
disgustingly superior expression as of old. The
infallible look in Sherlock’s eye is, in itself, suffi-
cient reason why the criminal classes should seek
his death ; and when he isn’t looking infallible he
sleeps in a superior way in his arm-chair and is
almost equally aggravating. The drama might
be improved in one way if Sherlock would
give up falling in love and contemplating mar-
riage. That episode is a shock. It is an attempt
to make Shei’lock look human when he isn’t. A
sphinx shouldn’t get married—its feet are too cold
and its head too dreary. However, the drama is
a good one with all drawbacks, and as it is only
on duty for one week it is needless to speculate on
possible alterations. “If I Were King” will
follow on Saturday.
** * *
Whether Win. Anderson’s new melodrama
at Sydney Lyceum, “The Night Birds of Lon-
don,” ends as every respectable melodrama
should, this paper doesn’t know for certain. On
its previous first night the great explosion scene,
five minutes from the finish, resulted in more fire
gn the stage than the management bargained for,
and the curtain had to come down, and this
paper missed the end that time. This time the
curtain, presumably, stayed up as long as it ought
to ; but as the proceedings were continued while
the stage fire brigade was pouring water on the
burning residence of Bill Vosper, pugilist, and
the steam was hissing, and the edifice was tum-
bling to pieces, and “the house” was emptying
itself into Pitt-street, not being quite sure
whether it was all stage-play or not, the
dialogue was lost again, and the writer
can only rely upon Anderson’s well-
known sense of Lyceum justice to see
that in the last five minutes everybody
got what he or she deserved. Even as melo-
drama “The Night Birds” is poor stuff, and,
on the whole, it isn’t well played ; but it is most
excellently staged. At different times a whole
livery stable is hired to give reality to London
street scenes—broughams, cabs, fire-reels, coster
donkey-carts, horsemen, &c. To the general
observation that the acting isn’t what it might be,
a couple of exceptions may be made in favor of
Miss Fergus, in the difficult part of a mad
woman, and Miss Gorrick, the long-suffering
heroine. Miss Gorrick collapsed on the stage
early in the show on Saturday, and the curtain
had to come down for a few minutes ; but there
wasn’t any trace of the illness in her subsequent
work. ‘ 1 The Night Birds ” will prowl a week
longer.
** * *
“The Widow from Japan,” produced at
Sydney Palace by Miss Maggie Moore’s co. on
Saturday last, does not stand above the average
of widow farces. The plot is thin and improbable,
the variety business with which it is eked out
not very appropriate, and the “humor” seems
to reach its highest point in a Frenchman
getting sick from smoking. A desperately
hard piece for a co. to make anything out of 1
Miss Moore and her colleagues undertake
the task with courage, and in some of the
more broadly farcical scenes raise the loud
laugh which betokens the happy audience, as well
as the vacant mind mentioned by the poet. In
addition to Miss Maggie Moore, in the principal
part, Miss Osgood Moore acts well as Blanche
Swift, and Miss Ethel Bashford makes a good
ingenue. Wilton Welch and Milton Moss do
best of the others. This Saturday (June 27th),
“Wav Down South” will be staged, and it is
understood that Miss Maggie Moore will blacken
her fair face and become an attractive coon for
the occasion.
** * *
Harry Rickards, the “ eminent author-
actor-manager-vocalist,” designed a treat for
Sydney Tivoli patrons by making a few farewell
“appearances” this and last week, before his
departure to Europe by specially chartered mail
steamer; and his voice did not prove to be
the mere relic that might have been expected.
If a change of fortune came to Henry and he lost
his bushels of diamonds, and his herds of car-
riage horses, and his flights of motor ears,
lie could still earn an honest crust as a
“lion comique” of some mane. Rudinoff’s humor,
his artistic skill, and his frank childish vanity
improve with acquaintance. Altogether the
Tivoli has a strong programme just now.
*# * *
Something right off the worn track of
entertainments is to happen at Sydney Criterion
on this Friday (26th) —a drama and a comedy
will be acted by inmates of the N.S.W. Deaf
and Dumb Institution. At annual demonstra-
tions the mutes have shown, in semi-private
and in a small way, what they can do in the
shape of the true pantomime ; but it is rarely that
the interesting experiment is tried publicly on a
large scale.
#* * *
Miss Muriel Foster, daughter of the late
Madame Foster, whose name will be remembered
in Commonwealth musical circles, will give a
concert in the Centenary Hall to-night (Thursday).
Miss Foster, who has been trained by Mr. Parkin-
son, is credited with a melodious soprano.
** # *
At Her Majesty’s (Melb.) the Frawley co.
tried its luck with “ Arizona” on Saturday night.
This full-blooded American play promises to have
more attractions for Melbourne than the Civil
War story of “ Secret Service,” which opened the
season. It is good, reasonable melodrama, intro-
ducing touches of Yankee novelty, and new
workings of old effects, and it has a breezy little
sub-plot instead of what would be irrelevant comic
relief in a melodrama from London. “ Arizona ”
will seem all the brighter when the waits between
the acts are curtailed and the principals have im-
proved on their first-night work ; for the story,
although it moves slowly at the start, has a fine,
free action from the moment it gets fairly going.
A military station is located in the neighborhood
of Canby’s ranch ; so Canby’s daughter, likewise
his female servant and other petticoats of the
district, are deeply interested in the officers of the
11th TJ.S. Cavalry. The elder Miss Can by, who has
married the Colonel, aged 52, is an unstable Trilby-
like person, and the wicked Captain controls her
with his baneful eye. If he says, “Look at me ! ”
the lady is lost. Younger Miss Can by is a wise
virgin with side-combs in her hair, and she lends
her side-combs and gives her heart to the virtuous
young Lieutenant, whilst the servant girl hovers
around sorrowfully, suppressing the fact that her
“fall”—everybody knows she fell—was due to
the Captain afore-aid. All the sinfulness of the
drama is provided by the gallant Cap. In a
rather sudden, casual way he is about to elope
with the Colonel’s wife and her jewels when the
virtuous Lieutenant intervenes to save the young
matron’s honor (and valuables) ; after which the
Colonel returns, and the guilt of the artful Cap-
tain is visited upon the other fellow, unto the
third and fourth acts, the giddy lady being con-
tent to drop her eyelids and say nuffin. All this
time the younger Miss Canby believes in the
innocence of her hero, who has retired
from the 11th Cavalry and become overseer at
the family ranch. She becomes engaged to him
with the approval of the old man. Father’s
method of giving his consent is quaint and nasty.
He plunges his hand into his pistol pocket, as
though about to shoot the suitor, but merely pro-
duces a plug of terbaccer, chews a bit off the plug
and expectorates before ordering a bottle of cham-
pagne. A lurid Italian rouseabout, who courts
the damaged servant of the household, learns that
the Captain was his predecessor, and accordingly
bullets him from the rear, whereupon the ex-
lieutenant falls under further suspicion. The last
act puts things right by ordinary melodramatic
means, and the Colonel goes off to fight the
Spaniards, intimating that he will resume pleasant
relations with his wife when he returns. Also, it
is understood that no harm will befall the furious
Italian who laid the Captain low.
• * * •
The weakest feature of the play is the
wife. Her feeble willingness to go astray with a
man who wants her jewellery repels sympathy
from the woman, and her repeutance doesn’t look
a strong safeguard against future captains. Per-
haps a powerful actress might give Mrs. Colonel
a pathetic appearance, but Miss Van Buren has
no emotional force to speak of, nor any sort of
grip of the character. The Colonel, played by
Harrington Reynolds, is another unconvincing
sufferer. He has only an air of importance and a
pompous enunciation which makes his meaning
indistinct. Daniel Frawley, as the youthful
hero, is a heavy, somewhat elderly exponent of
the undemonstrative style of acting, in which pas-
sion has to be taken for granted unless the actor can
show it in his face. Frawley’s repose is not elo-
quent. Miss Eva Denison plays the younger
sister very winsomely in this case; Plimmer is
the same restrained, business-like villain as usual,
and Hugh Ward, as the fiery Italian, is chiefly
successful in looking the part. The acting honors
of the show (which is poorly mounted) fall to
Jeffrey Williams. In “Secret Service” and
“Sans Gene” he did nothing to suggest that he
could achieve anything so happy as his character
sketch of Canby, the ranch owner. Other mem-
bers of the co. were better placed in the previous
dramas, but they help to make “Arizona” an
interesting matter.
** * *
“As You Like It” was approaching its
close at Melbourne Princess’s when this issue went
to press, and that inefficient pedestrian, old
Adam, the Blue Ribbonite, will arrive in a broken-
up condition at the fallen duke's encampment on
Friday for the last time. The Bulletin had some
idea of devoting this final week to an endeavor to
find out where the banished duke and his party
get their clothes and hats, but it decided to give
it up as being too large an inquiry. The banished
duke apparently has no means, for he has to
camp out in a windy forest. And, though the
forest yields a certain amount of provender, ward-
robe doesn’t grow thereabouts, or if it does it
isn’t visible at the date of the story—the clothes
tree isn’t loaded with any visible fruit, and the
hat shrub is not in bloom, nor does the green, un-
ripe shirt depend from a spreading bough. Yet
the duke is understood to have been banished for
many years ; and he never seems to take a fencing
contract to raise the money for clothes—and he
has clothes and not by any means bad ones, ihk
Bulletin gives the problem up, and mentions, in
a casual way, that “ Chinese Honeymoon arises
at the Princess’s on Saturday.
** * *
The eleven Boissetts and other old attrac-
tions are still doing well at Melbourne Opera
House. There are also some new attractions, but
certain copy which should have supplied particu-
lars concerning them was wandering over the face
of the earth on Bent’s train when this went to
press.
** * *
The Drought Drama preserves the uneven
tenor of its way at the Melbourne Royal, and the
public in general continues to be deeply moved
when Styan restores to his old woman the
wedding ring she had “ popped.’ Also Brunton s
scenery is responsible for several bursts of
applause, and the bones of the horse that died in
the foreground are a great success, as times go.
Moreover, the murder of Miss Harrie Ireland is
well received, although that pleasing adventuress
shows no special cause or reason why she should
be put to death. Baker speaks of her as an
obstacle to his marriage witli the angel who pre-
tends to get drunk at the .Hurricane Club, and
who seems likely to razzle in real earnest if she
doesn’t take care, but Baker could easily divorce
his obstacle if he felt so disposed. Rather than
go for a decree nisi he permits, his law r ful wife to
live in peace with his best girl s brother, and
because the situation is highly improper the
dramatist thought it advisable to bring the lady
to a violent end at the hands of Albert Norman.
** * *
At Melbourne Bijou these are the last
nights of “ The Slavey” and the mild millionaire.
On Saturday next, 27th, Sheridan returns to his
wonted skirts and produces himself as Mrs.
Goldstein, a “musical racical” female whom
Melbourne has not yet experienced.
*# * *
Frank Thornton, at the Adelaide Royal,
has finished pushing people named Smith in and
out of a great number of doors, and has taken
refuge in the familiar petticoats of “Charley’s
Aunt.” Misses Belle D’Arcy and Vera Fordyce
combine good looks and good acting in sup-
port. Business has been good but varied.
On one disastrous afternoon Thornton looked
up from counting his money (as John Smith) and
remarked, sweetly: “Yes, I ought to be rich.
I’ve been giving a matinee.” Willoughby, at the
Tivoli, ended up with one performance of “The
Wrong Mr. Wright,” and has departed Brisbane-
wards. A Melbourne co., with Beatrice Esmond
as star, is playing in the northern towns. Also
the more-or-less gifted amateur has taken posses-
sion of suburban halls of late, four distinct com-
panies of him and her giving more-or-less good
renderings of “East Lynne,” “The Octoroon,”
“As Once in May,” “In Honor Bound,” and
other things.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The affairs of Dick Golds' rough, who died in
18S6, are in the hands of ttie lawyers, not for the first
time. The Trustees, Executors and Agency to. (Melb.)
is suing the former trustees of Goldsbrough’s estate on
account of certain alleged extensive breaches of trust,
whereby Salathiel Booth, R. G. Row and T. Walsh did
during, or after, their trusteeship get unlawfully indebted
to the estate aforesaid. The case, on the face of it,
reveals an awfully tangled condition of financial deals,
and needs a lot of legal unravelling. It seems to be the
fate of big Victorian estates to feed the lawyers Herity,
Monaghan, Goldsbrough, and many other well-known
capitalists of the long ago, ought to have a joint marble
memorial erected to them bv the Vic. Lawyers’ Institute.
With the arrival of the report of the Maoriland
Life Dept, the figures of all the life assurance offices doing
business in Australasia are available. In most cases the
financial year ends on Dec. 31; the exceptions are the
Standard, Temperance and General, National Mutual,
Citizens’, and Metropolitan. Taking, first, the expense
rates and the rate of interest on average funds, these
results show up :
Australasian Offices.
Expenses per cent. Interest Earned
of Total Income. per cent.
1901. 1902. 1901. 1902.
£sd £sd£sd£sd
A.M.P 810 0 814 0 496 492
Maoriland State
Dept. .. 12 16 11 13 5 5 4 8 8 4 8 6
(a) Citizens’ (Or-
dinary) .. 15 15 6 13 18 11 4 0 2 4 1 0
National Mutual 16 1 3 17 511 413 4 411 7
Colonial Mutual 19 56 18 17 5 411 422
Mutual Life .. 19 19 3 19 910 4 8 9 4 7 4
Aus. Widows’
Fund .. .. 22 17 6 20 14 11 4 5 9 4 6 8
City Mutual .. 25 16 2 23 3 2 5 310 5 9 4
( b ) Temperance
& Gen. (Ord.) 32 37 25 53 410 3 494
(а) Citizens’(ln-
dustrial) .. 54 3 8 58 85 402 410
(c) Aus. Metro-
politan .. 59 8 7 107 14 3 _
(б) Temperance
& Gen. (Ind.). 67 03 6627 410 3 494
(d) Standard .. 96 18 • 2 82 1 6
American Offices.
Equitable .. 17 1 9 18 1 5 4 111 4 111
(e) Mut. of N.Y. 19 16 9 20 10 4 4 0 7 4 9 8
New York Life.. 18 17 10 20 12 10 4 0 8 4 4 4
Dealing next with the additions to funds during
the past two years, the results show up in this way
Australasian Offices.
Added to Funds. Totallnsur-
CZ ‘ ' ance Funds,
1901. 1902. 1902 *
A.M.P. .. ... ... £834,669 £914,599 £18,779 m
National Mutual .. 171,531 194,944 3 wii?
(/)Maoriland State Dept 145,459 97,402 3’3825i7
Colonial Mutual .. 106,456 121,749 sWovo
Mutual Life Ass. 96,081 105,247 lWom
Aus. Widows’Fund .. 80,940 59,195
Citizens’(Ordinary) .. 107,654 135,154 626 7«
CitizenB’(lndustrial) .. 40,665 36,747 316 WA
Temperance &G. (ord.) 17,238 30,583 284'44S
City Mutual .. .. 24,338 15,430 om’oqS
Temperance &G. (Ind.) 5,536 9,859 s/rt?
(d) Standard .. .. 307 4,562 'o 4 o
(g) Aus. Metropolitan.. 2,989 -g|
American Offices.
Mutual of N.Y 5,469,082 5,986,594 ?8 528 271
Equitable .. .. 5,482,372 5,774,694 73’324’234
N.Y. Life 6,135,734 6,613,133 65’,422’,488
(а) Citizens.—lnterest earned is on ordinary and indus-
trial funds combined.
(б) Temperance and General.—lnterest earned is on
ordinary and industrial funds combined.
(c) Australian Metropolitan.—Expenses (as also in the
case of the other proprietary offices) include dividends
(d) Standard.—This company was established only in
1900, and commenced, of course, with a deficit caused by
preliminary expenses. 1
(e) Mutual of New York.—lnterest earned for 1902
includes profit from sale of securities; the detailed
figures, from which the interest less that profit might be
calculated, are not yet available in Australia. In 1901 the
interest, with this profit included, was equal to £5 2s
1 Id. per cent. Including the profit made in this wav the
other American offices’ interest earnings for 1902 were
Equitable, £4 10s. lOd. ; New York Life, £4 Bs. 7d.
(/) Maoriland State.—£22,7B3 written off in 1902.
(g) Australian Metropolitan.—ln 1902 £4751 was taken
from the funds. The amount of total insurance funds
here given is the amount alleged by the company to
exist. This sum was largely made up by writing up the
book value of premises.
* * • »
In spite of the fact that private property
owners are compelled to sewer their premises, none
of the Melbourne municipal buildings are yet connected.
The position is evidently “Don’t do as I do; do as i
say."
* * * *
The record of the Westralian Trustee,
Executor, and Agency Co., Ltd., for the past year, the
only period for which balance-sheets are available:
Added
to Re- Re-
Profit Dividends. serves, serves.
April, 1902 £6007
Oct., 1902 .. £707 10 per cent. =£4so £257 6264
April, 1903 .. 996 10 „ „ 450 546 6810
On the shareholders’ funds at the commencement of the
last half-year (£9OOO capital and £6264 reserves) the profit
was equal to £l3 Is. per cent.; this is one of the largest
returns obtained by any company doing trustee business
in the Commonwealth. The co. has prudently established
what, for its size, is alreadv a substantial reserve fund,
now amounting to £6OOO. Still the funds are chiefly in
first mortgages and local debentures ; and in a country
subject to such violent fluctuations as Westralia a sub-
stantial reserve fund is obviously the only proper thing
Hades is an ice-house compared with the “fiery
furnace” raised by Frank Cotton at the Technical
College, Sydney, on Monday last. He exhibited the
power of his Patent Liquid Fuel Burner as a means of
treating the most rebellious ores. Two hundred Minis-
ters, members, mining magnates and minnows crowded
round the smelter, which in one hour was raised from a
tomb-like coldness to a temperature of 4000 degrees. The
s nelter itself cost but £25 to erect and the nozzle of his
burner playing therein had but one-tenth of an inch aper-
ture. Such was the terrific heat of the hydro-carbon gas
generated in the 141 b. burner by the admixture of dry
steam and residual oil that in three minutes, by the
watch, copper ore was bubbling like fat in a frying-pan.
The real eye-opener was the reduction of a parcel of New
Caledonia nickel ore in two houis.
• * * »
Premier Seddon, of M. L., has at last, apparently,
made up his mind as to what he is going to do in con-
nection with the Bank of N.Z. ; and he isn’t going to do
the best thing, although he is not going to do the worst.
There were three roads to take —to turn the concern into
a State Bank, to go into partnership with the lank, and
to continue to merely serve as a prop. Seddon decides
for the second. The country, he says, isn’t ripe for a
State Bank. It is ripe for State life insurance, State
accident insurance, State fire insurance, and even State
mutton shops, but it is not ripe for a State Bank. Nine
years ago, it was ripe enough to take the responsibilities
of banking ; it put £2,000,000 into the Bank of N.Z. The
next \ ear it took up £500,000 worth of preference shares,
and gave a further guarantee. For several years past it
has also had the greater pai t of the management of the
bank. The only serious difference, in fact, between the
Bank of N.Z. and a State Bank has been that the State
hasn’t had the profits ; and if a country isn’t ripe enough
to take the profits after taking the risks and providing
most of the management, it must be a very gteen
country indeed.
The Bank of N.Z.’s. position is something like
this One morning in ’94 the Government was told that
if it didn’t hand over £2,000,000 promptly there would be
a mighty smash. It handed over the two millions as
meekly as anybody who ever looked down a highway-
man’s pistol, and the mighty smash was averted. Yet,
so utterly and hopelessly insolvent was the concern, and
so successful had the first expedition been, that next year
the Government received another visit; this time with a
demand for a heavy guarantee and more cash. It was a
case of back-up or forfeit, and the State backed-up Using
State money, and supported by State guarantees, and
with State management, the bank soon began to nuke
money, and to buy back the preference shares. It has
every year increased in prosperity ; yet into such an
appalling mess had private enterprise got it that after
nine years there is still probably nearly £1,000,000 of
deficiency to wipe out in the Assets Realisation depart-
ment —or there was at the end of the hank’s last year.
From being a wild cat bank, which could only have kept
going by paying its creditors very little in the£, the
State has turned it into a bank which is making a profit
of some £200,000 a year, which expects to pay off all its
old deficits inside seven years (probably much sooner),
and which has actually begun to pay dividends
to its shareholders —those shareholders who were hope-
lessly’ lost 10 years ago, and who were saved by, the
State’s benevolence. And the State, whose money and
guarantee did all this, has made nothing out of it all.
And still “ the country is not ripe for a State Bank . it
is only ripe enough to prop up private banks and earn
dividends for mostly absentee private shareholders.
The Government is told that it can’t seize.the
bank by main force and turn it into a State
that if it wanted to purchase the bank £l,(XX),uw
would be asked for the goodwill. M hat, how-
ever, the shareholders really own is a bank whicn
has still an insolvent Assets Realisation branch, an
which is still dependent on State support. If 1
State called in its two millions on March 31, ! iext ; a ']
intimated that thereafter it would have nothing to
with the business, and wouldn’t guarantee
in any way, and wouldn’t do any ordinary banKi „
business with it, and if the State handed hac


TRAMWAYS FOR MINES.
STOCKS in SYDNEY and MELBOURNE include—Steel Rails, Bridge Rails
Steel Side and End Tip Trucks, Portable Tramway, Portable and Permanent
Switches Ball-bearing Turntables, Axle Boxes, Wheels and Axles, Jim Crows,
Dog Spikes, etc., etc. |N D E NTS.— LOCOMOTIVES from 10 to 400 h.p.,
including Compound Locos, and every description of Light Railway Material.
CENTRAL MINING &. TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Prop. Ltd., 40 Hunter St., SYDNEY. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager,
Representing Orenstein and Koppbl, Ltd,, London, Berlin and Paris.
Branches—Melbourne, Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania).
De Beer Silberberg and Co., invite inspection
of a new shipment of Gasoline Furnaces and Galopin
Assay Balances at 439 Bourke-street, Melbourne. All
assayers’ requisites and up-to-date scientific materials in
stock. Correspondence invited.*
* * * *
The Policy Holder July, 1902, writes:
“ The last report of the Colonial Mutual shows that this
important institution is maintaining its hold upon the
assuring public.”*
* * * *
In connection with the Penrith Scheme for the
Sydney Water Supply, the New South Wales Government
made a contract with the Austral Otis Engineering Co.
of South Melbourne for the supply of a Triple Expansion
Condensing Duplex Pumping Engine capable of raising
four million gallons of water per day to a height of 250
feet. As later on it is proposed to remove these pumps
to Sydney' to supply the high levels, the engines have
been fitted with a second set of pumps with a capacity
of one and a half million gallons .per day delivered lo a
height of seven hundred feet. The contract time for
manufacture and delivery' of the above plant was 14 weeks',
but the whole was completed and delivered within eleven
weeks. The Austral Otis company' are manufacturers of
every class of water works pumping plant and carry
large stocks of pumps suitable for Mines and Irrigation.*
« * * *
To empty old abandoned shafts, or to cope with
inrushes of water at a minimum cost, may be effected by
the use of the Vertical Plunger Sinking Pumps, manufac-
tured by The A. S. Cameron Steam Pump Works of New
York ; and represented by Messrs. W. & J. Lempriere, of
Melbourne, who hold stocks of these and various o her
sizes and styles of steam or air pumps. These pumps are
distinct from any other make of so-called “Cameron’
Pump. They work automatically, and have no dead
centre, neither have they springs nor outside valve gear
to become deranged. They occupy less space in a shaft
than any other Sinking Pump of same capacity.*
• * * *
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
all Mining and Assay Chemicals and Apparatus, Micro-
scopes and accessories can be obtained of Felton, Grim-
wade and Co., Melbourne. 4th edition, enlarged (red
cover) of illustrated catalogue of all mining requisites
now ready. Free on application on receipt of 4d.
postage.*
• • * *
H. Brandon Skertchly, geologist, mining engi-
neer and assayer, is prepared to furnish scientific reports
and plans to British and Australian investors. Assays
undertaken, and inquiries re mining properties, promptly
attended to. For fuller information apply to H. Brandon
Skertchly, Norman Chambers, Creek-street, Brisbane.*
* » * *
George Morrison, Stock and Share broker
(member Brisbane Stock Exchange), 377 Queen-street,
opposite Stock Exchange, Brisbane. Agents all parts of
the World. Correspondence invited.*
* * » *
If you want to borrow money, go to NiS,W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 7i.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* 4 * »
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, of Melbourne, reports
that there has been a great improvement in the general
outlook of the engineering business since the new year
started, and that his pipe making works in Melbourne
and Perth are working full-handed. Amongst the orders
now being executed at Footscray works is one for 7 miles
10 chains of 18in. diameter light steel spiral-riveted pipes
for the Victorian Water supply ; and at Perth works a
contract is in progress for over 6 miles of lOjin. diameter
spiral-riveted pipes, flanged joints, for the Greenbushes
Tin-Mining Syndicate. About two miles of these pipes
are to stand a test pressure of 8001 b. to the square inch.*
* * * *
A. Kozmmsky, 106 Queen-st., Melbourne,
having returned from England, is now prepared to
purchase paying mines, and mining properties (not
merely surface shows), situated in any part of
Australasia requiring further capital for development and
machinery. Only'; genuine and legitimate ventures,
capable of bearing the strictest examinations will be
entertained.*
* * * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
Is prepared to purchase or develop, with option of
purchase “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address : “ Option,”
Melbourne *
* * * *
Compound gauge glasses (Schott and Genossen)
as used by the Victorian Railways and the Melbourne
Trams are worth a trial. De Deer, SilberLerg and Co.,
Bourke-street, Melbourne, the newly formed partnership
to which we referred last week, are sole agents for
Australasia.*
* * » *
Hedley Hawkins, sharebroker, Queen-street,
Brisbane (member, Brisbane Stock Exchange), has agents
every important mining centre and cities of Common-
wealth. Correspondence invited.*
* * * *
The action to settle the rights of Sulphide Cor-
poration (Broken Hill) preference shareholders has gone
against the prefs. in the British courts. A profit was
made in 1900-1, but was not distributed, as it was thought
that the money might be wanted in the working. The
prefs. claimed that, when it became available, it should
be paid to them as their dividend for 1900-1. The Court
holds that, if money is carried forward in this way, the
prefs. are not entitled to it subsequently.
INSIST ON GETTING
a*
JuJeel-,sliced A\anco*
Cashmere
V - **r MADRAS** ft
rocersana sroreKcepers.Everyuiheye
By Special Appointment to His Majesty the King.
to the bank by Act of Parliament its Assets
Realisation concern and the deficit belonging thereto
and left the bank on its own resources—that goodwill
would take a lot of discovering. The Bank of NZ. would
then once more be simply an institution with not
enough assets to square liabilities, unless the share-
holders were prepared to put up a large amount of new
capital; and a large proportion of its best business would
be gone. The bank, therefore, isn’t master of the
situation yet by a long way ; and if Seddon were a little
riper (for it is Seddon and not the country that isn’t ripe)
he might still deal with it in much the same way that it
dealt with the Government in ICJ4. But the Government
need not do as badly as that. The Government found
the shares worth nothing at all, and it, and it alone, has
made them worth a good deal ; and the State should’pay
the holders full and liberal value. Even then, of course
the shareholders would still have gained enormously by
the transaction, and the State would have lost ; but one
way or other the State generally does lose.
* * * *
The Liverpool and London and Globe In-
surance Co. (Life and Annuity departments) :
. Share- Added
Income. Claims. Expenses, holders’ to
Dividend. Funds.
1894 .. £624,973 £445,036 £28,033 £151904
1895 .. 736,524 456,129 28,816 251’579
1896 .. 572,131 395,636 29,249 147 246
1897 .. 590,984 377,367 30,673 182 944
1898 .. 623,476 475,277 30,832 £86,903 30’464
1899 .. 662,716 498,082 30,992 133 642
1900 .. 629,539 480,295 31,517 117797
1901 .. 621,697 499,517 31,736 90 444
1902 .. 609,722 556,764 31,988 20,970
Total funds of the co.’s life and annuity departments are
now £5,583,493. The year 1902 was, it will be seen, the
least profitable for many years. Income was less than
usual, expenses a little more, while claims were unusually
heavy. The Liverpool and London and Globe does a
very large annuity business ; nearly 40 per cent, of its
total income is derived from this source. And, this
being a very cheap business to handle, the effect is
shown in the aggregate expense rate. For 1901 it was
£7 18s. per cent, of total income ; for last year it was £8
Is. lOd. per cent. Like many other English co.’s, this
one doesn’t hustle for business in bad times ; it doesn’t
reckon that, whatever comes, it must show a steadily in-
creasing premium income ; and so it avoids that heavy
rise in expenses which almost inevitably follows on
the attempt to show hooin results in' bad times.
On the life business alone, and charging the whole
of the dividend to this department, the expenses for 1901
amounted to £lO 18s. per cent, of the income of that
department ; for 1902, they amounted to £lO 16s. The
real figure is less than that, because the annuity business
pays part at least of the dividend ; but how much can’t
be said definitely. If the dividend is charged to the two
accounts in proportion to income, then the total expense
rate in the life department amounts to £8 19s. Bd. per
cent., which is a very excellent record. In addition to
the funds of the life and annuity departments stated
above at £5,583,493, there is a general reserve fund
amounting to £1,300,000 : but this is, of course, available
in connection with the company’s fire business as well.
Still it adds another buttress to an already solid-looking
concern.
• * * *
The local authorities of the big Melbourne
suburbs of Fletnington and Essendon have made a
provisional contract with A. E. Morgans, of Westralia
and elsewhere, the latter to provide an electric tramway,
lighting, heat, and power system. The people are to pay
about a third more than Melb. people for the light, and
as much for the tram service as the syndicate can get
out of them. The usual bait is offered in the shape of
powers to acquire the service in a few years—the lighting
plant, etc., may be had in 14 years, or again at the end
of 20 years and 25 years, on “ fair terms.” The tramways
go to the towns in 30 years on payment for the free-
holds only. It always looks very tempting, this offer
of a waterworks, or a tramway, or some other
thing of the kind, in 28 years, or 30 years, for
nothing; but as the 28 years or 30 years move
along the people begin to find out that they are paying
for the thing all the time, and that, anyway, it was only
built to last 25 years, and that it won’t be of any value
when they do get it. Also they discover that, no matter
how inconvenient it gets, or what improvements have
been made elsewhere, the syndicate won’t improve its
service ; it has only got a few years more to run it, and
it won’t spend money on what it will have to give up
presently. So the people have to put up with services
which they wouldn’t tolerate if they hadn’t been fools
enough to job away their rights, and they have to pay a
great deal more for a bad service than they could get a
good one for. And in the end they usually find that,
barring the experience, what they inherit when the 30
years expires isn’t worth mentioning.
* » * *
Floating of Toohey’s brewery into a public co.
has necessitated a formal transference of the mortgages
held by the concern ; the Trade Gazette gives a list of
146 of them—showing the extent to which the tied-house
evil has grown.
* * » *
Illawarra Steam Navigation Co. (N.S.W.) has
had an interesting history. YVayback in the 40’s a Cap-
tain Baxter owned a little schooner, which he ran in a
go-as-you-please style between Sydney and the southern
ports as far as Shellharbor ; but, as this method of trading
didn’t suit some of the hustling pioneers of those days,
John Conway and a few others clubbed together, bought
a schooner, which they called the Dairymaid, and, by
•charging fair rates and having fixed days for running,
they soon got all the trade and ran Baxter off. Then,
some capitalists of Sydney, seeing the good trade the
little schooner was doing, put on a small steamer, and
soon ran off the schooner. But the old South Coasters
were real grit, and they sold their schooner and
bought a steamer, which they also christened the Dairy-
maid, and soon got most of the trade back again.
There was now trade enough for two boats, and so the
pair ran in opposition for a time, until a good offer was
made for the Dairymaid, and the two boats, united,
formed the beginning of the Illawarra S.N. Co.
* * * »
Argus Permanent Building and Investment
Society (Melb.), whose year ends on April 30 :
Added
Written to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
IQQK PI79S
1896 " £175 Nil £169 £6 1734
1897 .. 204 Nil 291 1647
1898 .. 223 Nil 181 42 1689
1899 .. 198 Nil 339 1548
1900 .. 472 Nil 440 32 1580
1901 ... 1275 Nil 1762 1093
1902 1494 3 per cent. =£sos 1113 969
1903 .. 1607 3 ~ ~ 505 963 139 1108
The steady improvement continues, although the amount
which the management finds it necessary to wipe off is
still heavy. Nevertheless this is the largest addition
made to reserves for many years, notwithstanding that a
dividend is again coming out of the profits. Business is
steadily expanding also ; the position last year compares
with' that of five years back as follows :
April, 1898. April, 1903.
Deposits.. .. .. £5,906 £10,153
Loan Advances.. .. • 31,849 35,305
Overdraft .. .. 1,464 3,054
Due on Mortgage .. 7,079 4,467
The share capital has remained at £16,825. The society
lends every available pound—it even borrows from its
bankers, by way of overdraft, to lend to its clients.
While things go smoothly, this is the way to make profits ;
but it’s pretty risky in a world where fools and fool-
panics have to be reckoned with, even by thoroughly
sound and solvent concerns.
* * * *
The shocking mess in which Broken Hill finds
itself for want of water illustrates what may happen to a
dry town which trusts to “ private enterprise ” to keep
its tap running. Broken Hill has known for years that
it didn’t have a good enough supply ; again and again it
has been within speaking distance of famine. A supple-
mentary supply, owned by anybody else, would, how-
have out into the existing water co.’s profits ; and,
as the co. has to hand over the whole of its works for
nothing in a few years, it naturally wasn’t willing to
B P® nd m pney on a supplementary scheme itself. Its
chief business was to earn dividend's—that is what it was
formed for. To keep the people and the mines supplied
with water was a secondary matter. Every pro-
posal to add to the supply, and to put the
mining industry beyond serious danger of collapse
t^ )m . ™ ls cause, was, therefore, quietty but
effectively opposed, sometimes in one way, sorhetimes in
another ; sometimes openly, more often secretly and with
great cunning. The success of this policy- was made
easily possible by the appalling ignorance of. the average
-Sidney officer with regard to far-western conditions, and
bi the selfishness and short-sightedness of the mining cos.
A* to the officers, they generally forgot that a supply
which would be adequate for coastal places is not
adequate for a place subject to long droughts, and where
the loss by evaporation runsto about 10ft. 6in. a year. As
to the mining companies, though a largo supply of water
is now absolutely indispensable to them, seeing that the
whole of their ores must be locally concentrated before
they can be smelted, and though they have been well aware
for years that the existing supply was inadequate and
likely to fail, they have taken no real steps to provide
water for themselves. They have talked about it ; they
have made references to it in their reports ; they have
even pegged out catchment areas. And then the Water
Supply Co. has moved in its mysterious way, and the
mining co.s’ projects have been dropped. So far, it hasn’t
mattered much. If there hasn’t always been water, there
has at least so far always been mud. But now, even the
supply of pumpable mud is about at an end —it has come
to an end sooner than was expected. What is going to
happen this writer doesn’t know. The Owe’Sullivan may
carry enough water bv train from S.A. to keep the town
going ; but water cannot be carried 60 or SO miles at a
rate that will allow of its use in ore-concentration or for
steam-raising. The mines may be able to draw some
supply from the soakages at Acacia and from the old
workings ; yet there are but small possibilities in either
of those schemes.
The Acacia Trust, which may possibly be able
to supply the mines with a small quantity of water, was
formed when water was scarce 12 years or so back, in the
days when John Howell was general manager of the B.H.
Prop. ; it was he who discovered this possible source of
supply and projected the trust. It is, however, a very
small affair. The Acacia is a shallow depression, 20 or
30 square miles in area, formed of soft limestone'; and by
sinking in this formation a fair supply of soakage water
can be got; there is a pump-line to the mines. As,
however, there has been less than Bin. of rain over this area
in the last 20 months, and as the supply has already been
freely tapped, it is very doubtful whether what remains
is worth mentioning. The trust consists of the largest of
the mining co.’s.
* * * *
What little water there is left at Broken Hill
will be used for emergency purposes. Ordinary milling
operations ceased at the B.H. Proprietary, Block 10, and
Central (Sulphide Corporation) on Tuesday morning ; the
South closed in the afternoon ; the British on Wednes-
day. The decision to cease work was not expected so
soon. A little mining continues ; but as the ore can’t be
used without concentration, and as it can’t now be con-
centrated, the few miners who are left at work will be put
off in a few days. It is a stunning blow ; but it will have
its uses—. Broken Hill will get another water supply now ;
and nothing less than such a blow seemed capable of
rousing those interested to realise the necessity of it.
* * * *
The Commission appointed to inquire into the
underground smash at the Broken Hill Central mine in
October last has made a colorless report. Nobody was to
blame, and the system of mining couldn’t be improved.
In Other words, smashes are unavoidable, and a few
miners must expect tp die now and again as a mere
matter of business. No doubt that fact will be remem-
bered when it is being considered what is a fair price to
pay the miner. The bodies of the two men who were
buried when this particular creep occurred, nearly nine
months ago, have not, by the wav, been recovered yet.
* * '* *
Mr. Kendall’s report on the Great Cobar (N. S. W.)
and associated properties is a voluminous document. The
great expert is all enthusiasm respecting the shows.
There is not a qualification or a suggestion of hesitation
in the whole of the report. It is summarised by Mr.
Kendall himself as follows:
Extent of property : The different works reported on
are : Great Cobar copper mine, Nymagee copper mine,
Peak and Conqueror gold mines, coal mines at Lithgow,
coal mines and coke works at Rix’s Creek, the smelter at
Cobar, the smelter at Nymagee, the refinery at Lithgow.
Ore blocked out; At Cobar 1,415,000 tons ; at Nymagee
104,800 tons.
Assay value of ore in sight : At Cobar, of 201,500 tons,
•6 per cent, copper and Tosoz. gold per ton ; of 1,213,000
tons, 3‘79 per cent, copper, '0950z. gold, and - 6730 z.
silver per ton. At Nymagee, copper, 3'2 per cent.
Ore probable, but not blocked out : At Cobar, 534,000
tons ;at Nymagee, 128,000 tons This is exclusive of the
large bodies of ore that must exist below the present
workings.
Coal: At Lithgow, 2,100,000 tons ; at Rix’s Creek,
5,088,000 tons, and 40 coke ovens.
Output of refined copper : 14,000 tons a year.
Cost of producing refined copper : £33 per ton.
Assumed selling price of copper : £52 per ton for
G.M.B.’s, and £56 for best selected, or its equivalent, over
the next few years ; to this is to be added the value of the
precious metals from Cobar, i.e., £9 12s. 6d. per ton,
making together £65 12s. 6d. per ton.
Probable profit, £450,000 a year.
Expenditure on works necessary to obtain this profit,
£160,000.
Time required to effect improvements, 12 months from
date of commencing actual work on the ground.
Working capital required, £240,000.
Probable profit from working with present plant:
Taking the price of G.M.B. for the next 15 months at
£5B per ton, the profit would be at the rate of about
£95,000 a year.
“ The above low cost of electrolytic copper as compared
with that of producing the same material at Anaconda
(Montana, U.S.A.) is due to the great facilities attaching
to these properties. (1) A trifling amount of water in the
mines, little timber needed, and an ore which can be
treated in the furnace direct, thus avoiding the great
loss incurred by preliminary water concentration. (2)
Much lower wages in all departments. (3) Very much
cheaper fuel for converting and refining.”
Under the head “General observations,” Mr. Kendall
reports : “I consider this a most valuable property, and
feel satisfied that with proper management the figures
I have given above will be fully realised. The ore
blocked out is equal to 11 years’ output at the present
rate, or nearly four years’ at the increased rate. In
addition to this there is nearly a year and a half’s output
at the increased rate, or over years’ at the old rate,
which, although not blocked out, I consider will most
certainly come out of the property. Then there are
very large possibilities below the present bottom levels
of the mine which are m>£ taken into account in the
above estimates.”
This report must be pleasant reading to the
syndicate which holds the option on the properties ; but
will it please the present owners to be told, on such
authority, that the application of less than the profits of
21 years to development and equipment would leave them
the possessors of mines which would return a profit of
£450,000 a year—mines which they are selling for a trifle
over £1,000,000? If, in the face of such a report, the
deal is not promptly completed, there must be something
rotten in the state of the London mining market.
♦ * * »
Several Melbourne and Sydney speculators
visited the Shuttleton district (N.S.W.) last week, and all
speak in most enthusiastic terms as to the prospects of
the mines there. In the Crowl Creek mine splendid
faces of sulphide ore of good grade are showing in all
parts at the deepest levels, and there is now every assur-
ance that the mine has a great future. The erection of
furnaces is to be proceeded with at once, and it is to be
expected that they will be in operation in about two
months. The directors of the Shuttleton Syndicate—
a Sydney company—have agreed upon a systematic
course of prospecting operations. On two of the blocks
held by them the work already done has revealed
splendid indications, and in Shuttle’s block in particular
it is reported that there is every probability of payable
ore being met with,
* * * *
The failure of the dredges on the Turon
(N.S. W.) has been a great disappointment to the residents
who looked forward to fabulous returns such as would
revive interest in the once famous field. Attention is
now being directed to the auriferous rocks, and the
“ oldest inhabitant ” who knows where there are moun-
tains of gold waiting simply for a little capital to expose
them is busy airing his imagination. The old Queens-
lander mine, near Sofala, which has been tried bj T several
syndicates—the last an Adelaide crowd guided by J. 0. F.
Johnson—is reported to have been acquired by a Si dney
brewer, and a tram-line two miles and a half long and a 100-
head stamp mill on the Turon are talked of. Formation
is diorite interspersed with stringers of quartz and
mineral. There is plenty of rock and a paucity of gold.
Rock is intensely hard, and even if it carries as much
gold as is alleged, it is questionable whether it could be
worked at a profit commensurate with the enormous out-
lay on plant which would be necessary to deal with it on
a large scale. At Hill End something worse than stagna-
tion exists. A recent visitor astonished the publican by
producing a £5 note. He bad to beg and borrow from
almost every person in the place to raise enough
to provide the change. The deep tunnel scheme
to prospect Hawkins Hill is still talked about. It will
almost certainly never get beyond that stage. A Sydney
company is handling the King’s Reef mine with some
vigor. If it can produce bv the ton stone equal to that
shown in Sydney by the lb. it will create a sensation.
Old mines, like old inhabitants, are frequently' unreliable ;
but Ravenswood (Q.) affords a recent instance of the fact
that a deserted field is not always a valueless one, and if
a resurrectionist at Hill End or Sofala accidentally struck
another “ Holterman,” people would speedily be fall-
ing over each other to get in to the abandoned and
discredited shows. As they would probably be quite up
to the average of new ones, no great harm, and a certain
amount of good, might result therefrom.
* ■* * *
During the six months ended February last the
net trading profits of the Smelting Co. of Australia
(Dapto, N.S.W.) were £18,454. An arrangement has been
entered into with a syndicate which is to provide 60,000
tons of smelting ore per annum for five years and to
guarantee substantial divs to the co. The scheme, it is
stated, will necessitate doubling the capacity of fhe
works. The chairman at a recent meeting stated that the
business of the co. was conducted on “ fair and equitable
principles.” Owners of copper mines in N.S.W. will
hardly endorse this statement; they fail to recognise the
fairness or equity' of a deduction of £l2 10s. off the value
of copper, in addition to the ordinary smelting charges.
• * * *
Mt. Boppy (near Cobar), at a meeting in Lon-
don on April 18th, declared its second dividend of
Is. 3d. per share on 110,000 shares, and carried forward a
small balance from last year’s profits. Stated at the
meeting, by chairman Hoffnung, that a substantial
interim dividend would be forthcoming on receipt of
returns to 31st March. For the quarter £13,500 had been
remitted, but a further amount was expected. Present
appearances of the mine indicate that this substantial
return will be maintained. April return wasl97loz. from
2528 tons. Probability is that the new manager has
improved on this. His name is Dave.v —a cousin Jack for
a certainty—but not the voluble T.G. who used to run
the Harrietvihe mines in Victoria. T.G. is now a copper
expert, and is mainly responsible for the reports on
deposits in Africa, which, if true, mean that copper will
soon be as cheap as coal.
* * * *
Reported that an offer of £4o,ooo—£Booo in
cash, and balance out of gold won from the mine—
has been refused without hesitation by the eight
proprietors of the Sullivan’s Gully mine, near Cano-
windra (N.S.W.); £50,000 cash being their valuation
of mine. “Blessed is the man who sells” is in most
cases a safe axiom, but, now and again, as witness
the case of Mount Morgan, it is an unsafe one.
« * * »
Lake View Consols (W.A.) during May treated
7541 tons, or 1000 tons more than usual, for 484C0z., or
1500 oz. less than usual ; and no forecast of this serious
decline was given. The publication of the result was, in
fact, delayed for a week, during which period scrip
dropped back to 435. Somebody must have been busy
getting out. Rumors of a serious decline in the yield
were bruited about the market, but, until the official
figures were published, nothing definite was known. The
above return shows an average of 12'7dwt. per ton,
which is the best the mine can muster from the ore
reserves blocked out. Even on this reduced return there
is an alleged profit of £4600, subject to deduction of
London charges.
» * * *
Great Boulder Prop. (W.A.) appears to be in
luck, as it is alleged that the boundary lode has made
back into Boulder ground at 10 level, after being entirely
in the Horseshoe from 2 to 9 level. This lode is known
as Horseshoe 4, and is probably the richest lode on the
field. The underlie of the Boulder main lode also
changed at depth from west to east, the lode being 52ft.
nearer the shaft at 1600 than 1400 ft. Co’s, main shaft is
well on the way to 1800 ft., but, as there are ample
reserves, this work is not being unduly pushed.
* * * *
Of Oroya-Brown Hill (W.A.) it is said that
quarterly divs. of 2s. 6d. a share will be paid in future
commencing with September. This should make the
shares a good investment. The Oroya blocks are practi-
cally virgin mines of great possibilities, so the co. should
have a brilliant future. The serial tram is well on the
way to completion, and the foundations for the extra
10-head are being pushed on. When this work is
complete the mill should treat 5000 tons monthly for
about 10,000 oz. With this increase in output costs
should be substantially reduced.
* * * *
Kalgurli (W.A.) lias opened up so well lately,
and the ore reserves have increased so much, that the
management has practically decided to increase the capa-
city of the plant to 6000 tons monthly, or fully 50 per
cent. On this the co. should easily earn divs.'of 4s. a
quarter. At the 850 ft. level the ore is worth 18dwt. for a
width of 27ft., while at 1000 ft. the north stope is yielding
3oz. stone, the richest found for some time. The lodes
in the mine are very wide, running in places to 60ft., so
that the mine would not be strained by the proposed
increase in output.
/ * * * *
Westralia Mt. Morgans is being very vigorously
developed at all levels, most of the driving being to the
south, following the dip of the chutes into the Guest
property acquired last year by the co. Large reserves of
ore are being laid open owing to the enormous size of the
lode. At the 300 ft. level the stopes are quite 100 ft. wide.
The ore is becoming so hard in the lower levels that it is
proposed to erect another 40 head of 17501 b. stamps. The
present 60 head mi)l, half 12501 b. and half 15001 b. stamps,
is treating 6000 tons monthly, or a shade over 3 tons per
stamp daily. The ore now averages 15dwt., but a higher
average is expected later on. A number of improvements
are being made to increase output and reduce costs. Co.
is at present working five levels, and the main shaft is
down 580 ft.
* * * *
Millionaire, Mt. Morgans (W.A.), one of A. E.
Morgans’ flotations, has had a disappointing first clean
up; 494 tons only averaged B£dwt. A trial of 200 tons,
treated at a neighboring mill some months ago, averaged
22dwt., so the falling off is very marked. Co. has a
large lode, and working costs are low, so that even 81dwt.
ore should yield fair profit; but a better average is ex-
pected in future. Co. is in 125,000 shares of £1 each
113,000 of them issued. Much development has been
done since co.’s flotation three years ago, and the 5-head
mill is expected to soon treat 800 tons of ore monthly.
Associated Northern (W.A.) has already carried
its main shaft far past the point where the dianv ml
drill penetrated an alleged gold chute, without locating
any gold-bearing ore. Both Prof. LiVeing and Manager
Roberts are very reticent regarding develo] ments, hut
there is little doubt that the bulk of ttie rich ore has
been fairly well gutted out, and it is questionable if tl ere
will be any more shipments after the June parcel. The
third borehole on the south end of the Iron Monarch
lease has fulfilled its mission, but<the resuh is being kept
a profound secret. The “ dirty era ”in W.A. mining is
said to have ended ; but, judging from the secrecy dis-
played by the management and the enormous drop in
the scrip, which foretells a drop in returns, the “dirty
era” is still with us. Co.’s plant, now on order, will
consist of Merton’s furnaces and the largest size of bail
mills.
» * * *
Great Fingall Consols (W.A.) is still forgirg
ahead. During May the 60-head mill treated the record
tonnage ior the record yield—Bs44 tons for 13,6740 z.
What is, however, still more satisfactory is that the gold
was .worth £3 11s. 7d. per oz., and the ore fi Us. 7d, per
ton, both record figures for the mine. lit she time the
additional 20 stamps get to work, it is expected that the
9 and 10 levels will be opened up, so the ore reserves
should be healthy. So far as driven, No. 9 level is one of
the richest in the mine, the ore averaging about 2oz.,and
in places running over 4oz. to the ton. As the
sampling is very carefully done, there should be no
chance of these values not being correct. As the additions
to the plant aie to be paid for out of revenue, divs. t\ill
either be temporarily suspended or reduced.
(Continued on page SO.)


ORIENT TO MEASURE
. . . CLOTHING .
♦ ♦
Sac Suits
To fleasure
63/-
In New Winter Materials* ,t
1
Patterns and Self»Measurement Forms Post Free.
DAVID JONES and CO.,
Geprge and Barrack Streets, Sydney
CENTURA
RIGHT UP-TO-DATE,
RIVALLING ALL OTHERS.
HAND CAMERA.
For Ordinary Daylight Loading Roll Films,
and can also be used for Dry Plates.
the
Slips easily into
Pocket.
Will take Portraits,
Groups, Views, and
Snapshots.
Fitted with all Latest
Improvements,
Yet Folds Compact and
Neat.
MODEL A.
As here shown, takes photos. 4J x SJ
inches. Perfect results.
Price £4 7s 6d.
Full Description of many other
Style Cameras from ss. up to £5O.
See our New Illustrated Catalogue,
over 300 pages, sent Post Free.
HARRINGTON & GO. ltd.
66 King St.,
Sydney,
.. AND. .
93 Queen St.
Brisbane.
y i.
SOCIETY
The pot knows the complexion of the
kettle. When Prahran council lately declined to
“ part ” a brass farthing towards the up-keep of
Melbourne’s fever hospital, its mayor, out of the
depths of his knowledge, summed up Thomas
Bent in these words: “It has been stated that
the council will be compelled to contribute by Act
of Parliament. While Mr. Bent is Minister of
Health no Bill will be brought in to compel any
municipality to do anything.” Whereupon
another heavy shopkeeper, who was quite willing
that a splendid hospital should lie idle and the
sick poor die in the gutter if he could thereby
avoid a halfpenny increase in the rates, “ I can
see it will cost £6OOO a year to run the hospital. . .
Let us keep out of it as long as we can.” And yet
all the time these weighty Bumbles are paying
three times as much as they need for the treat-
ment of fever cases in gaol.
* * * *
Victoria still hears at intervals of that
new sect, the Flitterers, which arose at Bendigo
and resolved never to do any more work. The
other day Mrs. Flitterer, junior, wife of one of
the most frantic apostles of the new faith, asked
BIS ONE EWE
LAMB.
“ Cockerill seems
awfully fond of his
new wife.”
“ Naturally! it’s the only one he's got now.”
for a Warrant for Flitterer’s arrest for desertion.
He was, she said, in Queensland, and she had
written to him for assistance, but all the Answer
she got was a glowing account of numerous con-
versions to the new gospel of leaving off work,
and of the great good the apostles were doing,
and a strenuous injunction to depend on theLoard
for tucker for herself and infant. Quite a number
of new religions commence by leaving the wife
and baby in the lurch while the male support of
the household is away expounding at street
corners.
Even the lying and swindling importer has
his clerical apologist. Thus Dr. Marshall, recently,
at Scots Church, Melbourne:
I can easily conceive that, as a great moral danger to
the future well-being of our young Australian Common-
wealth, the enactment or administration of our customs
laws may tend to abolish a keen sense of moral rectitude
and self-respect in the public conscience by putting in the
pillory of official condemnation men who in thought and
purpose would scorn to do anything mean, not to say
fraudulent, though they may be held responsible for a
mere technical offence. Indeed, it is one of the gravest
moral dangers in the life of any community when the
majesty of the law lends itself to any political process
that may result in branding honest men as criminals.
Wise statesmanship, to say nothing of fair moral senti-
ment, should bo careful to avoid even the semblance of
such a sin.
The rich, unpatriotic importer who forges invoices
and swindles his country seems to be quite the
church’s ideal of an “honest man.” And a v'
number of people don’t go to church simply
because they don’t care to associate with parsons
who have dirty ideals of that kind.
* * * *
W. T. Stead’s spookish “Julia” fore-
told, as early as March last, so Stead says, the
murder of the Servian king. Why don’t these
people back their spooks ? Stead, if he had any
confidence in Julia, might have insured Alexan-
der’s life for a quarter of a million or so. The
same with the American rain-fakir, Dr. M‘Carthy,
who isn’t going to make 3in. of rain at Broken Hill
because that dry town won’t put up £2soo—only
£2500 ! Why, M'Carthy can make £lOO,OOO inside
a month by backing his spook. All he has to do
is to buy a few thousand Water Co. and mining
shares, then streak along and fill everything in
Broken Hill that will hold water, and call back to
lift the 25 per cent, rise that will have taken
place in the price of stocks. Or he might buy up
the middle of Australia for a farthing or two per
square mile, and sell it in 80-acre farm and garden
blocks, each block furnished with a fake of guar-
anteed 25in. rain power, at about £5 an acre. Yet
Stead wastes his time hawking a sixpenny maga-
zine, and M‘Carthy cadges round for mere thou-
sands and doesn’t get them.
• * • •
Tom Bent has put himself in a position to
hear a good deal of what happens at the Yic.
Railway Commissioners’ office, for the new mes-
senger who haunts the premises is Terrible
Tommy’s son-in-law, formerly a head porter at
Spencer-st. station. The only visible reason for
appointing this well-seasoned porter to the light
and simple duties of messenger boy lies in his
relationship to Bent, the howling advocate of
small economies. Maybe Bent has instructed him
to qualify himself for the position of “ loyalist ”
Commissioner, on the off chance that Mr. Tait
may be bullied into a strike.
* * * *
Premier Seddon’s great idea of sending 26
members of Parliament and a large quantity of
liquor on a cruise through Polynesia to view his
prospective empire of pin-point islands and reefs
with wrecked ships on them was not a great
success. One of the chief troubles was a politician
with few clothes on, and those mostly torn, who
gave way to excitement, and hollered loudly,
and waved his arms like flails for about a week at
a stretch. Also there were other troubles. A
rather disgusted band came home a few days
before the date originally intended, and a lot of
them will never smell whisky again without
thinking of Polynesia.
Justice Cooper, of Queensland, in sen-
tencing a returned warrior to five years’ imprison-
ment for robbery with violence :
It did not follow that because defendant fought for his
country that he could return and commit crime with
impunity. . . Men like the prisoner were a sort of
human wolves, savage, unscrupulous, utterly careless of
the feelings or rights or sufferings of other men, greedy
to possess their property, reckless of consequences.
How many such human wolves did Australia
send to unhappy S’Africa ? And how many
judicial protests were there at the time?
It was confidently expected that when that
base malefactor who stole the Cardinal’s night-
shirts discovered who owned them
he would repent. One morning,
the whisper sped through the
cathedral that the thief, God
rest his sowl, had repented, and
returned the ill-gotten duds, and
the good Fathers gathered round
a bulky parcel, which the Dean
opened, to find—some soiled
lady’s garments. The Black
Protestant again.
FRIENDS WERE SAYING “ GOOD-BYE,
GOOD-BYE.”
“ Hop” left on Saturday for a holiday tour
round the planet.
Since the last local option poll Maoriland
hasn’t the least idea where it “ are.” No provision
was made by the Legislature for a second poll if
the first poll was declared void for any reason,
and in nearly every district where “reduction”
or “no license” was carried, Mr. Public-house
lodged a petition to have the poll upset, on the
ground that the returning officer showed afi.un-
due tendency to wear elastic-side boots, or that
he had a maiden aunt who suffered from paralysis.
In most cases Mr. Public-house won his case. At
Newtown prohibition was carried, but the poll
was declared invalid, and at the first meeting of the
licensing bench the chairman told the committee
things would remain in statu quo. The other five,
who were all prohibitionists, replied that they
didn’t care a wisp of hay for the legal aspect of
the case, and wiped out every license in the place.
They have behind them the moral force of the
no-license majority, and Mr. Public-house has
the law behind him, only he will probably have
to apply for that law to a very unsympathetic
court, and anything may happen.
* * * *
Re the passing of the old order;
Dr. Norton Manning’s death recalls a Jot of the
abominations which the good and supreme old conserva-
tism tolerated even in recent times. Not very many
years ago we got the “cat” out of the common J.P.’s
hand. But Bumble and Podsnap still had their fling
amongst the sick and the afflicted. Norton Manning,
with Parkes behind him, won for the insane the humane
treatment they now receive. And how hard it is to
realise now that yet another department remained with
all the rags, shackles, scars and blood stains of the old
times about it right down to the 80’s. Dr. Markellar
found the N.S.W. Quarantine and Health system at that
date foul and corrupt, and consequently cruel and
cowardly, as a convict lazar-house at. Saghalien or a
bureau at Tobolsk. So recently as 1881, small pox patients
were run down to South Head on the open deck' of a
launch, poked along past stacked coffins to the isolation
pens on a hulk, served with food on 20ft. poles, dragged
out with hooks when dead, and buried in quicklime
graves. The good old Herald and all that cult never
heard or smelled it. Mackellar swept that away, and in
subsequent organisations did the good work of his life.
He is dickering up again now with a Neglected Children’s
Bill, but the fear is that Toryism has him too tight for
any thorough reform.
• * * *
“ 6 x 8 ” to The Bulletin :
What has often pleasantly struck me in Australia is the
almost total absence of the wet-nurse system so flourish-
ing in England, America and elsewhere. It’s a cheerful
fact and healthy sign that nearly all Australian mothers
rear their own babies. In England fully 60 per cent, of
middle-class and practically all Society babes are reared
on the milk of strangers ! Many medical men assert that
numbers of children thus reared inherit the charac-
teristics, inclinations, temperaments and general dispo-
sitions of their -wet-nurses. The presence of the pro-
verbial “black sheep” in many a highly respectable
family is thus probably often accounted for by the wet-
nurse who reared it.
It is, unfortunately, not a fact that nearly all
Australian mothers rear their own babies. Con-
sidering social circumstances, they resort to
artificial feeding to a far greater extent than in
Britain, though it is the bottle and not the wet-
nurse to which they turn. The “ black sheep ”of
the “ respectable English family ” needn’t be put
down to the wet-nurse. There is generally quite
sufficient explanation in the history of his pro-
genitors. And why not charge the respectable
members of the family to the wet-nurse ?
A report (in the D.T.) on Wentworth
Falls (N.S.W.) Consumptives’ Sanatorium, by a
cured patient, is very satisfactory. When he
entered, the upper half of his left lung had col-
lapsed. He followed the regime of the place-
rise at 7, cold bath, then plentiful meals and
gradually increasing exercise. Each patient had;
three pints of milk a day, plenty of meat, farina-
ceous foods and bread and butter. They lived;
practically in the open air ; half the wall space of
the sleeping room was open day and night in cold,
frosty weather. After three weeks there was a
marked improvement. Special dumb-bell exercise,
was then prescribed to strengthen the lung. Soon.,
after the patient left—cured. /
• * * *
Sydney D.T. prints two consecutive pars.,
in its summary :
Captain Bradshaw, a resident of the Northern Territory,
now in Sydney, states that Port Darwin will be com-
pletely isolated if the Federal Navigation Bill, as drafted,
becomes law.
It is likely that a Hongkong company of
will run a line of fast steamers between Port Darwin and
Port Arthur. j
A perfectly isolated port with a line of fast,
steamers running to it is noteworthy.
» * * *
It was reasonably expected that the new
Bishop of Melbourne would be in favor of pulling
down the useless old pro-Cathedral in Little
Collins-st. and selling the valuable land. This,
decayed tabernacle, erected on a tract of wilder-
ness which is nowadays hemmed in by ware-
houses, provides a fat income for the aged incum-
bent, Dean Vance, and benefits nobody else, at
present. The Bishop intends that it shall benefit,
another member of the profession. He has in-
vited a London shepherd (from the Whitechapel!
district) to come along and find rest as the curate
of Dean Vance’s church. The new man from
crowded Whitechapel will have little to do beyond
praying for commercial parishioners whose homes
are pitched far from Little Collins-st. Presumably
lie is a person in delicate health, and a friend of
the Bishop, and the change to Australia will suit
his complaint.
NOT FOR THE PRICE.
“I saw your new baby to-day; isn’t he-small?”
“ Oh, well, we only pay our doctor sixpence a
week.”
Another death under chloroform “in a
dentist’s chair ” is reported from Tas. The
amount of chloro. necessary to be administered
for a dental operation is not very large and should
not be dangerous ; but it adds enormously to the
risk if the patient is in a chair. Chloro. should
be taken lying down. '
AUTRE TEMPS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The R.O. Archbishop of Adelaide sent £5 to the local
Hebrew Mayor, Cohen, as soon as the subscription list
for the relief of the Russian Jews was opened.
It was good of His Grace,
And a strange thing and new,
To be kind to the race
Of the heretic Jew.
In the days that are past
The same Hebrew would play
The chief part in the cast
At an auto-da-fd.
Then His Grace would adjourn
A sweet service of prayer,
All to see Cohen burn
At a stake in the square.
Now these differing men
Are in spirit allied,
And they coincide—then
It was spelt Cohencide.
In the virtuous race
(God send cloaks for our sins !)
Faith and Hope have their place,
But ’tis Charity wins.
CREEVE ROB.
LOVE-BIRDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(He) : “ The ring-dove coos
All day ; all day
Her shy mate wooa ;
He yearns to say
‘ I love you true—
Oooroo t cooroo l ’
(I yearn for you).”
(She) : “ Beneath the pines
His bronze wings gleam,
Her soft eye shines
A milder beam . . ,
• I love you, too,
Cooroo ! cooroo 1 ’
(And I love you).”
(He) : “ The ring-dove’s mate
Replieth low,
With note elate—
‘ Come, let us go—
Come, wed—come, woo—
Cooroo ! cooroo ! ’
(Sweetheart, ive too!)."
THE YOUNO ’UN.


WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resch’s Waverley Brewery, Agfents.
Wild’s, in the Sydney Arcade, is the most
fashionable gentlemen’s hairdressing saloon in
Sydn jy. Every attention possible is paid to the
custo ners by six expert hairdressers. Addr&ss.—
30 Sy lney Arcade, entrance from George-stree*
or King-street, Sydney.*
SILVER STAR STARCH
THE BEST IN THE WORLD. -
BILE BEANS**;
USNESS , iIVER
•* and Troubles.
Vic. Govt. Medical Officer, J. A. O’Brien
girds once again at his employers’ infamous
habit of sending the sick poor, who have been
turned away from the overflowing hospitals and
asylums, to gaol, there to recover or die He
gives specific instances of pensioners and others
who had never before seen the inside of a gaol’
being imprisoned for three or six months with
the sole object of getting them out of the wav
so that they might not die in the streets and
thus shock respectability. O’Brien appeals to
the Government’s humanity, which was probably
meant as a burst of humor. The great problem
is why the Iceberg Government, however much
it may enjoy its inhumanity, should persist in
throwing away good money over it; also why
the blessed Reform League doesn’t restrain
Shiels in his reckless piling up of deficits In
’Ol to ’O2 the average cost of each prisoner in
Victoria’s gaols was £4B 19s. 4d., while the
inmates of the Benevolent Asylums cost £l3
4s. 4d., so that for every poor old invalid sent
to linger out his last year in Victoria’s gaols
Shiels is deliberately throwing away £35 of that
harassed State’s already too scarce revenue. If
the Kyabram Retrenchment League intends to
justify its existence and hold up its tail feathers
honorably to the light of day, it has here a first-
class chance to do so.
* * * *
Another cry from Victoria :
Bent’s present railway system—or the country part of
it, at all events—is a weariness of the flesh and an all-
round abomination in general. Where I live some days
there is one train, some two, some none. A genius from
Kew Asylum couldn’t have devised such a chaotic service
on purpose in a month of Sundays. The trains that do
run, don’t, so to speak. Instead, they crawl over the
landscape with the pain and pathos of an endless serpent
dragging itself in a circle through Hell, and with frequent
stoppages when all hands—driver, stoker, guard, passen-
gers and all—have to climb down and urge the tired, lame
beast along with main strength and jacks and crowbars
Freshly-imported Commissioner Tait (just unpacked) has
a job ahead of him as big as Kosciusko—or bigger.
* * * .
At Charters Towers, the other day, Pre-
mier Philp told a W.C.T.U. deputation that,
if the local authorities didn’t take steps to
wipe out the Japanese-kept houses of ill-fame,
the women from Yokohama would probably con-
tinue soliciting the sinful “ fi’ bob ” unmolested ;
the matter of their suppression being entirely out
of the hands of the Government. Seeing that local
government is so much in the hands of the class
whose rapacity for rent is proverbial, the Japanese
dens seem to be fairly safe. Rents are always
paid promptly and on a generous scale by the
“gimme five bob” house.
* * * *
A witness who made a reluctant statement
in a Sydney court in a capital case involving the
lives of two men, having obtained beforehand an
assurance from the Judge of a general pardon for
most of the sins of his life, now receives hints that
the assurance does not cover everything. Assur-
ances in similar circumstances have often beenqual-
ified ; sometimes they have been simply ignored.
Sydney’s first gaoler-Governor leaves it on record
that he once said to a girl, “ Speak the truth and
on my honor as a gentleman I will acquit you.”
The girl spoke the truth, and Phillip ordered her
to be hanged. Phillip was a very poor kind of a
gentleman.
» * * *
Beak-nosed members of the money-lending
fraternity winked significantly when the oily Dr.
Bevan told them, at the Persecuted Russian
Hebrews’ meeting in Melbourne Town Hall,
that “ the Christians owe much to the Jews.”
But only a very clumsy parson would drag in the
I 0 U by the hair on such a solemn occasion.
♦ * * *
The first week in J une saw the Maoriland
licensing committees at work. Most interest
centred in the Scotehby-
terian city of Dunedin,
where the hotels were to
be reduced, and the com-
mittee appointed to do it
consisted solely of rabid
fuglemen of the pump.
Dunedin is at present in
weepful condition, be-
cause the committee has
decided that while it
will abolish thirteen
hotels, it will not grant
licenses to the others un-
less they will (1) Abolish
the counter-lunch in its
present extravagance of
oysters, Welsh rarebit,
lettuce, oelery, radishes,
fishballs, sausage rolls,
and so on, and substitute
plain bread and cheese ;
(2) abolish barmaids;
(3) close at 10 p.m., in-
stead of 11 p.m. as
hitherto; and (4) keep
only one bar in each hotel.
The barmaid was objected
to on the ground that she
is so attractive that she is
a dangerous rival to the
gratis lunch in inducing men
to come along and drink.
There was no suggestion
that she was a menace to
the morals of the thirsty.
or that the thirsty were any
particular menace to her.
Dunedin is a dreary and
lingering place already, and
it is almost impossible to
imagine what it will be as soon
as the new regime comes into
force. Then we shall see the
long-nosed Dunedinites walk on
their cold red feet to the hotel,
and buy a beer in great depression, and mourn-
fully supplement it with a slice ol cold hard
cheese, and glare stonily at the hard-faced male
behind the counter, and finally go into the
outer darkness again, and probably bang another
saxpence under the same sepulchral circumstances.
Going out on the jag in Dunedin in future will
be like going to a series of funerals in wet
weather and swallowing the tombstones.
The Bulletin would like to hear how
much Rev. Dill Macky made out of his sectarian-
row promotion tour in N.S. W. When setting out
it was announced that he would raise some thou-
sands for a Protestant Defence Fund. But it
seems to have been a case of much excitement and
bruised eye and very little tangible results. Did
the fund benefit by as much as a tenner?
* * * *
Melb. Age advt. :
XXT ANTED, handsome Girl, with long, thick hair for
' ' show purposes, four hours a day.
Probably the hair-restorer man on the job with
the usual lie about “after using”—his previous
“ exhibit ” having run away and married, or lost
her hair, or something.
THE AUSTRALIAN GAMBLE—
RETAIL VARIETY.
(Scene: Outside a barber’s who runs a
"quiet tote")
JACK: “ Hullo , Mick, how did yer get on over
the races?”
MICK: “Just struck the barber for a double.”
JACK: “ Which double?"
MICK : “ Shave and a hair cut.”
The Archbishop of Belgrade, who owed
his pomp, office and dignity to the royal house of
Obrenovitch, refused even to hold a requiem mass
for the souls of the murdered king and queen, who
were buried, like Jehoiakim of old, “with the
burial of an ass.” The Obrenovitches are down,
and the Karageorgevitches are up, and the church
hastened to grovel to the assassins and make its
job and its cathedral sure. It is all so like a
church.
* * * *
The most pleasing social incident in
Sydney last week was the falling in of Father
Abraham Abrahams. In that fell splash ,£3OO
damages and heavy costs vanished, and in one
corner of Jewry there was weeping and male-
diction. Father Abraham, according to the story
of the girl who obtained the damages, was a dear
old soul who, in the fulness of his paternal sym-
pathies, gave a little Gentile music teacher a free
room in his musical establishment for the purpose
of teaching budding Melbas and Crossleys how to
warble the “ Cannibal Maid ” and the “ Shriek of
Anastasia.” In lieu of rent there was some vague
sort of talk about commission on any pupils the
ancient brought along. But the offer of a rent-
free room from a man whose name consisted abso-
lutely of Abraham looked, at the least, unusual.
In due time, according to the girl, father Abraham
indicated that, even to a Hebrew who had cele-
brated his silver wedding, a little plump music-
teacher was not anathema, and when the girl cast
mud upon his beard the old man seems to have
got nasty. He went round saying “ things ”
about the girl. One Brown also seems to have
pressed his attentions on her at this time,
possibly because the language of Abraham led
him to regard her as a girl who liked “atten-
tions,” and Brown wandered in an irrelevant sort
of way through the case for some distance. Ulti-
mately Abraham became absolutely violent in
his language, and accused the music teacher of
breaking, entering stealing, and general im-
morality. Then the ancient was brought into
court, and the court manifested a very low
opinion of Abraham, and gave the damages
above mentioned. It is a long time since the
court has appeared to have a lower opinion of
anybody than it had of Abraham.
» * * *
One of the first notable cases in which
Premier Irvine appeared after he was called to
the Victorian Bar was that of Nyulasky v. Rowan,
in which a man had to pay £BOO for a joke.
Nyulasky had 400 shares in the Melbourne Tram-
way Co., and, one day, was deploring to Father
O’Reilly, in the Melbourne-Exchange, the state
of the shares in the market. Andrew Rowan,
wine merchant, who held a great quantity of
Tramway shares, happened upon the scene, and
told Nyulasky not to sell the shares then, and in
three months he would give him £8 each for
At the end of the three months Nyulasky called
on Rowan and asked him for £3200 for the shares,
but Andy wasn’t “on.” Nyulasky then went
and sold the shares at £6, and sued Rowan for the
difference —£800. The defence was that Rowan
was only joking ; but Father O’Reilly’s evidence
convinced the court that the old wine-dealer
couldn’t joke if he tried, and Nyulasky got the
verdict.
* • * *
It is a matter for regret that the Australian
Government has wasted valuable time, ink and
paper, corresponding with Britain on the matter
of “ Ecclesiastical Precedence.” There’s no State
church in this continent, and there ought to be no
question of precedence, and the puffed-up fol-
lowers of the Teacher who washed the feet of His
disciples ought to be taught a lesson in Christian
humility. Clergymen, whether they wear red
hats or pot hats with tags on them, should be
treated at official functions as private persons. If
there is to be any precedence the oldest shepherd
should be allowed the privilege of showing the
other shearer the tail of his coat.
A violently unusual sort of a ruffian tran-
spired at Inverell (N.S.W.) (Quarter Sessions,
recently. Accused, one David Brown, was
charged with horrible cruelty to a boy. In evi-
dence, it came out that Brown had somehow got
it into his head that the small boy had been rob-
bing him of certain money, so he unmercifully
thrashed him to aid a confession as to the where-
abouts of the missing cash—if there really was any
missing'. Finding, this ineffectual, the determined
cash-misser then tied the boy to a sapling in the
scrub for three nights running (in winter, in New
England 1): but, finding this also unavailing,
probably because the miserable youth knew
nothing about any money, Brown then tied him
to a pole and immersed him in a water-hole to
his neck for three hours ! When this also
failed, Brown seems to have become really
severe, as he then proceeded to hang the
boy up by the neck with a saddle-strap, and
threatened to cut his throat if the money didn’t
appear, forth with. Luckily, somebody happened
along just then, and the case matured further in
the arrest of the dreadful Brown. Seemingly,
there are some people in this world who would
cut their grandmother’s throat in an endeavor to
discover three-halfpence.
• » * *
“ Let the women of Australia remember
this,” says the.D.T.’s most oracular correspondent
on the declining-birth-rate subject: “ God will
never send a man and woman more children than
they can provide food and clothes for.” If that’s
the case, then somebody else seems to be sending
along children, and the D.T.’s correspondent
ought to get it stopped. But what nonsense it is.
As well say. that God never sends a cat more
kittens than it can find house-room for and save
from the water-hole.
* • * *
One rather mean member of the Maori-
land Parliamentary picnio to Polynesia is said to
have offered a, shapely island lady a box of
matches if she’d show him certain tatoo marks
concealed about her person. She cheerfully un-
dressed and gave an exhibition, but the legislator
didn’t consider the tatoo illustrations good art,
and demanded his matches back. Considering
that the lady had all the trouble of struggling out
of and into her clothes, his conduct was considered
degradingly economical.
* * * *
Stated in N.S.W. Supreme Court last
week that when a Jew marries outside his own
persuasion he generally marries a Roman Catholic.
* * * *
During the hearing of a maintenance case
at the North Melbourne Court recently the man
stated. he was earning 10s. a week as a driver, and
was willing to contribute ss. out of it towards the
infant’s support. An order for ss. weekly was
made, Dr. Lloyd, J.P., remarking that the sooner
the parties got married the better. The man
said he was “thinking of it.’’ Ten shillings a
week and a wife and child, or five shillings a
week and single blessedness, make up a problem
that takes a lot of thinking over.
• * * *
A returned swaddy, who served with one
of the recent contingents in S’Africa, had the
misfortune to “go under” at Gisborne (M.L.),
whither he had travelled with a circus. As lie
died moneyless, the local Bumble Board was com-
pelled to bury him. Two persons attended the
funeral —the driver of the hearse (who couldn’t
very well be absent) and a parson (to read the
service). At the graveside things were a little
more cheerful, the crowd being augmented by the
presence, of the sexton. The services of a stranger,
who was spending an hour or two in the cemetery
to rid himself of an attack of melancholia, had to
be requisitioned in order that the coffin might be
lowered. And all this change in two brief years !
* * * *
“ Peto ” : Par. in B. (13/6/’O3) contained
a shudder at the ghastly horrors of blouse-
making at by London “ out-workers,” a
condition of affairs which the M'Millan and
Smiff cult would joyfully welcome in Australia.
Said price has been the average payment to
out-Workers in Adelaide for some years past.
Trousers, blouses, boys’ clothing, and white-work
generally are made in Adelaide as cheaply as in
the meanest German-Jew sweater’s den of
Whitechapel. Ample proof of this statement
can be had from the report of the S.A. Factories
Inspectors. That one of the largest soft-goods
houses in Australia should have sent a parcel of
material from Sydney to Adelaide to be made up
and returned, and, after paying freight both
ways, could still sell the garments at a profit is
another proof. Some reasons for such a deplor-
able state of affairs are: (1) Bad laws ; (2) worse
administration ; (3) influx of Syrians ; (4) the soft-
goods merchant of Adelaide is invariably a pillar
of a church, of several alleged charitable institu-
tions, and of the Anti-sweating League (now
sleeping); also, he can influence many votes.
The press—well, the man who sells clothing is
far and away the biggest advertiser in the State.
*' * * *
The Federal spirit. A South Australian
t was charged lately with assaulting a four-year-old
"girl. After two months’ observation it was
reported that accused was “a bit queer,” but not
“queer” enough to be supported in an asylum.
So the prosecution was withdrawn on the under-
standing that he would leave for another State—
a State, presumably, where there aren’t any little
girls, and where it doesn’t matter if people are
“ a bit queer.”
• * * *
Rookwood Cemetery and miles of country
around it constituted the “Liberty Plains” of
N.S.W. early records. It was to that then pro-
mising part of the country the free immigrants
were first sent. The land did not turn out well,
and most of them shifted to the Hawkesbury.
Now it is chiefly an old man’s home and a gather-
ing of tombstones.
hk are you gon\p
rn \y P relty r^id
" I rr] £JOir\£) 3.-polfn\g )
\ sir sk?. said'
\ I cony: vifitk _you
rrvy pretty rr\aid
Ol\e caddies "caouq|\ at. a time.
skc .said
Blister
LINES BY A GROCER—TO MARY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Thy subtle charm, like candied peel,
Sultana currant of my heart
How can I tell thee what I feel
When thou art near my lingering cart ?
Molasses cannot all express
The slow, sweet movement of Love’s dream
That clings about thee, who dost bless
More than refrigerated cream.
The best of coffee, chocolate,
In fond libation should be poured
To one so nobly spiced by Fate—
One so confectioned, raisin-cored !
HUBERT CHURCH.


FACILE PRINCE PS.
SEMPER IDEM.
KY.
1 1 In the Matter of Dress attention to Detail Indicates Breeding.
i, every lady knows TIT A T __
KLEINERT’S HOOKON
iCorrect Hose Supporter
Sold only at the Best Shops. T ° W ® ar W ‘ th th * NEVV *°*» DORSET
OF 80 y .
Est. 1818. *
o**
cV’
SV
r*
s'-
■t s
30'
Women ! why be thin and undeveloped ?
Lact&, the wonderful skin-food, plumps the flesh
where thin and undeveloped, gives a beautiful
roundness to face, neck, bust, and arms. A
quick, sure and safe home treatment. Jars
75._6d., post Bs. 2d. Thousands of women using it
daily, all of whom testify to the wonderful results
from its use. Write for pamphlet to H. Westall
Guest, Vice-regal chemist, 229 Bourke-street,
Melbourne.*
WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
\VT
w
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW
A NEW LOT OF LACE COLLARS.
A Striking' Demonstration of the Latest
Developments in the Fashionable World.
Black Lace Applique Collars.
Round Shape, with pointed fronts, 1/11$
Square Backs, with stole fronts, 3/6
Circular Collars, with points, 2/11
Square Yoke Collars, 4/6
Round Vandyke Collars, 3/11
Square Back, pointed fronts, 2/11
Large Cape Collars, 5/11 - --
Why should you be an exception ? Others
Save Money by doing their Shopping Here ; so
will you after you have favored us \vith~a
Trial Order.
w. T. WATERS & CO. LTD.
“ The Leaders of Fashion,"
King & George Sts., SYDNEY.
Dress faßßies
Are Stocked by the
Leading Drapers. '*
[VARNISHED BOARD
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
„ Sydney, June 23, 1903.
My Dear Arini,—
A Tasmanian resident who, as a boy, was a
pupil of Lady Hector Macdonald’s father, writes,
protesting against the suggestion that she would
have been out of place amongst the other officers’
wives. Lady M. was, he says, the only child of
A. M. Duncan, who, with his brother, kept a
school in Perth, Scotland, under the style of
A. and R. Duncan’s Commercial Academy.”
They were both scientists, and (with a curious
mixture of the keen man of business and the
dreamy swisher of the rising generation) they
were the owners of many vessels trading between
k“ e Tay and the Baltic. Lady Macdonald was
perhaps better born, and, almost to a certainty,
better educated than many of the women who
tiptilted their noses at her.
Dr. Norton Manning, who died last Thursday
f a struggle with an acute renal disease,
had been for many years a valued public servant,
do him the comparatively high state of N.S.W.
Lunacy Department is due, he having remodelled
the lunacy system in 1867. As a specialist in
mental alienation Dr. Manning had numberless
opportunities of showing his sympathetic and
kindly nature, which, allied to a distinguished
degree of ability and a markedly handsome
appearance, made hiiii one of the best-liked men in
the Sydney medical profession.
How assiduously the names of “mourners” at
funerals of well-known men are chronicled in the
morning dailies ! And the day after the list
has appeared there is almost sure to be a supple-
mentary one—which proves that “the gentlemen
whose names we omitted ” have gone and button-
holed the recording demon, or editor. Wonder,
when cremation is general, will there be a long
black procession to the crematorium, and a state-
ment next day that “among the names of the
gentlemen who gathered round the furnace that
of Samson Smith, Esq., J.P., was inadvertently
omitted”! No doubt in a while we shall be
able to incinerate our dead in a few minutes with
electricity. In fact, then we may, if we live close
to a tramline, just switch on a current to our
house, and there won’t be any need for long, black
processions.
London newspapers report the engagement of
Baden Powell (the gentleman who is always
photographed wearing his hat or flourishing his
sword) to Miss Daisy Leiter, sister of Lady
Curzon. One would have thought that one so
fond of limelight and ring-master effects as B.P.
would have selected a circus girl. Concerning the
voice that Breathed, &c., Lady Bertha Wilbra-
ham, who came out here on a visit to the
Beauchamp brother and sister, was married lately
in London to one Major Dawkins, whom she met
at the Durbar. That great elephant parade led
to the striking of so many matches that there’s
been a chronic wedding breakfast ever since.
Sydney Society is smiling on the quiet at a cer-
tain youthful-looking woman who has a daughter
two years over the coming-out age, but whom she
still keeps short-dressed and long-haired, and will
not allow to any but schoolgirl dances. The girl
announced her intention of “coming out” on her
own, short dresses notwithstanding, at the Syd-
ney Uni. Sports Union Ball, on the second of
next month ; and the mother, who tries to appear
28, and mostly succeeds, has had to compromise
with her. She is to come out this winter, but in
a neighboring State, and to be chaperoned by an
aunt. The story leads up to one about Mrs.
Langtry. She was resting in. Boston a month or
so ago, when a telegram came through to one of
the papers announcing the birth of a son to the
lan Malcolms (her daughter and son-in-law).
Mrs. L.’s manager said to the reporter who
sought an interview, “ I wouldn’t take her such a
message for anything. Let someone else break
the news to her that she can no longer be con-
sidered an ingenue .”
‘‘Warm with delirious love and fight.” Now,
isn t that a fine Brummagem jewel to put on the
finger of time—the time of last week, when
Mayor Cohen, of Adelaide, gave a great ball. A
correspondent assures me that the sensuous, not
to say sensual, phrase was used by a respectable
elderly daily in describing the brilliant scene,
lour thousand persons and five thousand five
hundred electric lights, and white, frost-like
decorations, and Governor-General, Lady, and
suite. Mayor and Mayoress left the decorations
standing, and next evening they, the Cohens,
were “at home” to, it is estimated, 20,000 per-
sons who could not be asked to the. ball. About
3000 mortally-offended persons stopped away from
the reception because they were not asked, to the
ball; otherwise the Mayor and ’ess are the most
popular couple in S.A. up to date. Tennvsons
went in largely for arboricultural pursuits during
their 30 hours’ stay in Adelaide. They planted
trees at the Maternity Home, Botanical Gardens,
and Oval; and the planting of a shade tree is,’
according to an Eastern belief, one of the three
things that will help to save your soul alive.
That loan exhibition in aid of the heathen-in-
hiS-blindness which State Governor Rawson
opened last Tuesday at Redfern is well worth the
door moiiey (there must be door money, how else
could the heathen be aided ?) if only to see Sir
liarrv s collection of West African horror-curios.
These were garnered after the Admiral and his
handy men had got into the Negro city of Benin,
only to find it deserted but drenched with the
blood of human sacrifices and Ju-Ju horrors.
Amongst the collection are some weirdly and
delicately wrought bronzes, which must be close
upon 400 years old. Supposed that early Portu-
guese travellers taught the art, which the savages
promptly forgot. One plaque Shows' two men fn
toe agonies. of strangulation and crucifixion ; and
•on the cross beam above their gibbet, perch three
solemn, horrible black birds. Every strand iri
the ropes, the fingernails of the victims, and the
parting of the birds’ beaks are made clear.
Another bronze shows the king giving an audi-
ence. Soldiers stand on either side of him holding
up his arms, which are loaded with ornaments.
There is an immense ivory tusk, closely carved—
an historical and human document; but most of
the curios and carvings, all taken from off the
Ju-Ju altars, have to do with torture and death
carved bronze circlets which supported the
severed heads on the altars, and bells which
the priests rang when summoning the inhabitants
for sacrificial selection. Hadn’t the inhabitants
of Benin reason to say—“ Alas, those chimes ! ”
Miss Mabel Ward, a music teacher to whom a
sympathetic jury awarded £3OO damages against
one Abrahams for slander, is described as so pre*
possessing as to quite win the collective heart of
the junior bar. Her spelling wasn’t as good as
that of a dictionary and it seemed a decimal of a
point against her that when asked by the
judge how she would spell “able,” she gave it
“abel.” But if one is a musician one
may spell like Artemus Ward, or the Uni-
versity professor who spells comedy with two
m’s, and occasion with one c and two s’s. You
don’t spell a top-note.
Obituary notices of Cardinal Vaughaq (by the
way, he was expelled from Stonyhurst for the
mild crime of cigarette smoking) remind us that
his brother Jteginald, who came to Sydney on a
visit some 25 or more years ago, married whilst
here Miss Shanahan, a sister-in-law of the
late Patrick Jennings. Squatter Shanahan, her
father, who dowered her well, acquired his lands
and flocks as did most of our early sheep kings.
“If you eats yourself,” Squatter Shanahan used
to say to the shepherds seeking work, “you’ll
get so much a week; if Mrs. Shanahan eats you,
it will be half.”
The largest.piece of embroidery-work ever done
in this State is the curtain for the new theatre—
Her Majesty’s, which is to be opened next month.
Curtain, which is the work of Mrs. Edwards, of
S.A.N.. Soc., is of pale blue silk plush. In the
centre is a shield measuring 4ft. 6in. by 4ft., in
the middle of which is the monogram ' “ H.M.T.”
worked in two shades of gold silk. Gold cord out-
lines the device.
Sultan of Johore, while in Sydney, bought an
automobile and shipped it Malayward. I reckon
he had to pay cash before delivery, though.
Dealing with an independent potentate who can’t
be sued for his washing bill is a risky thing these
hard times.
One “ Cheetah ” writes to me from Bendigo:
In “ A Woman’s Letter ” (B. 30/5/’O3) “ Akenehi” writes :
I have seen but two short-skirted women in Sydney up
to date.” If “ Akenehi ” pants for a glance at short skirts
on a large, ever-enduring scale, let her strike Bendigo.
Here, the billy-goats wear their whiskers long, and the
eternal chit of a girl wears her skirt short and her hair
a-hanging down her back. Fashions may come and trains
may go, but the years and looks of Bendigo spinsterhood
aspire to remain young; and their lingerie peeps from
under the skirt hem for ever! For 25 years now, have
been visiting the goldfields’ city, and since my first
glimpse at the Bendigo girl’s many attractions as she
stands on the bridge that skirts the two platforms, she
has never changed either in her hair or her frock-length.
But age is coming upon me ; likewise, methinks, the
Bendigo girl is not so full about the calf or so trim around
the ankle as of yore. Her flowing locks are stringy, and
the aroma of hair-dye hangs around her presence ; and
she appears to be in too great a hurry to get to the rail-
way station (which would look lonely without her
presence—there for quarter of a century every night,
excepting Sundays) to spare the time to massage out
the ‘cracks of age ” that will weave their tell-tale net
oer her ever-smiling visage. Still, she bears up well.
Three cheers and a tiger for the Bendigo girl. Age is the
only stranger she fails to greet at the local barrier when
the train comes in.
Basso Peterkin remains in Australia to takepartin
Ada Cross]ey’s tour in September. Peterkin’s wife,
Marjorie Nairne, made her first appearance before
a Sydney audience at the Town Hall last Satur-
day.. Her soprano voice is curiously like herself,
fragile and thin, with a pathetic quality. She is
a young woman—looks 30 years younger than Ho !
Jolly Jenkin Peterkin, and evidently had little or
no musical training. All the same she has a lily-
maid-of-Astolat appearance that will make any-
one but an audience of bears kind to her. She
should have been an Elaine instead of a Marjorie.
Contralto Emily Foxcroft, the star of William-
son’s English Concert Co., has frequently mingled
her deep chiming song with that of Aucklander
Tom Jackson, who has been in the Great Smoke
this many a year. The blooming (adjective not
used in its slang sense) contralto is one of the few
English visitors who does not look at us and all
about us through smoked glasses. Our weather is
her especial favorite. “Look at that sky,” she
exclaimed to a tired Australienne, who, so chal-
lenged, blinked up into the opal afternoon and
asked, “ Yes what’s the matter with it?”
“ Why, if we in London had one day in a year
like this roofed with a sky like that—We would
talk of it as, for instance, ‘ that wonderful Sunday
we had seven years ago, in May.’ ”
Foxcroftian taste on Saturday’s platform made
for a pink rose under the left ear and a long pink
silk scarf, with fringed ends, hanging from the
decolletege of the gown to the foot. In the
matter of smoky-gold hair and opulent figure, the
contralto is like the pianola-poster gin, whose
appearance on our street-advertising spaces daily
causes partial paralysis of traffic, both horse and
foot.
Liza Lehman’s “In a Persian Garden” (Omar
Khayyam’s verses) will be produced next month
at Sydney Town Hall by the Pianola Co.. Artists
engaged for the performance are Miss Violet
Mount, Miss Dalrymple,. and Messrs, Weir and
Robyns. The “ Garden ” includes a delightful
d uet for soprano and tenor, “ A Book of
Verses Underneath the Bough”; and the tenor
solo, “ Alas that Spring should Perish with the
Rose,” is a real peach., A quartette, “Wake, for
Morning in the Bowl of Night,” starts the
Persian night’s festival.
My Melbourne correspondent continues :
“ The Governor Tennysons are beginning to
wear a travel-tired, srnoke-tinted look. On
Friday, when driving along to embark for
Harborville, after only a few hours’ interval from
arrival by the alleged express from Adelaide,
their Exes, were less ready to beam upon the man
in the street, and showed less than usual of that
specldess, fresh, immaculate state that breathes
of righteousness and the frequent tub. Their
journeyings from state to state of late have been
very frequent. A recent day in the Holy City
was given over to an astonishing flight of func-
tions. There were receptions, tree-plantings,
Mayoral sprees, visits of inspection, in one brief,
dizzy day. Then their Exes, were ‘expressed’
over here, whiffed through more ceremonies, and
at last carried off, weary-eyed, to Sydney. Lord
Dick Nevill’s eyes grow saucer-shaped, and his
lean visage as sorrowful as an owl’s. But he’s an
uncomplaining sufferer.
“In a few weeks, the bleak-looking glass-house
on the St. Kilda-road will break into life and
illumination, the Tennysons having decided to
take a long-breath pull in this Federal rendezvous.
Later on, they intend to look in at Tasmania, but
not before a good quiet restorative spell.
“Two of the serest early Victorian parliament-
arians are at present tenderly regarded by their
friends. The one, Graham Berry, takes his airing
abroad when the sky is at its brightest in a wheeled
chair. The other day he assisted at the knot-
tying of a daughter—Miss Edyth, who was
marrying into the wealthy wool-broker circle—in
this invalid carriage. The other ancient is Dunky
Gillies, who has taken to sunning his feeble self
in all his grey'and tall-hatted lustre on the Block.
There’s something pathetic about this effort to
figure in the giddy promenade of former days.
Dunky’s eyes look at you clearly, shrewdly, but
his tongue rambles apace, and reminds you that
the keen-headed politician of early Victoria has
lost his grip on the world’s affairs.
“The music mania is going to be a curse of
eroticism. Wild enthusiasts are at the city’s out-
posts waving their wands and flapping their
coat-tails before bewitched bands of followers.
Sensationalism runs along the lines like a bush
fire. Ardent young conductors are rising up to
keep aflame the fire kindled by Marshall Hall.
A recent sheet of Beethoven’s music with word
illuminations ends :
Here, with a swirling rush, joyful and exuberant youth
asserts itself.
O ye millions, I embrace ye !
Here’s a joyful kiss for all!
This from one of the young conductors ! ‘ Joyrul
and exuberant ’ youth will get a black eye from
an indignant brother one of these days.
“ Two wealthy young dames, who married from
the chorus ranks into the squattoeracy and have
since walked in scarlet and delights, like the
dazzlers of Saul’s time, are making tremendous
preparations for a joint ramble in Europe.
“Malcolm M'Eacharn seems to be ever out on
the house-tops, telescope in hand, watching for a
visiting church, political, military, or social star
to show above the horizon. When he has made
sure of its class, he invites it to come and revolve
at Goatlands. When it isn’t a Federal lion, it’s a
colored somebody, a foreign mogul, or a church
nobleman. There’s always someone of compara-
tive distinction occupying the elaborate guest
chamber of the Goatlands domicile. Does Mal-
colm ever read ‘Pickwick Papers,’ and refresh his
recollection of Mrs. Leo Hunter and Count
Smorltork ? :f
“The Rev. George Robinson—the opo-time..
guardian of Amy Castles —has departed from his'
prosperous parish out Camberwell way a physical
wreck. Once aßandsome figure, he left the other
day, a prey to paralysis that has deprived him of
all peace and comfort. For years he has been
afflicted but struggled along, making good-;
humored jest of the matter. Latterly the face'
twitchings became a trial to behold, and, a severer
attack than usual occurring, the smart cleric had
to give up his parochial charge. He has taken a
trip to Ireland. Probably no priest was as useful to
Archbishop Carr, none a greater platform success,
certainly none more popular among the faithful.
“Miss Van Buren boasts of a martial ‘ poppa,’
a whole. host of belligerent relatives in Dutch
America, and a ‘ mommer ’ who has smelt powder
and proved as. brave and courageous as the his-
torical mother of the Gracchi. There is a childish
play of hands and a perfect rounding of the eyes
when the Van Buren talk turns to things native
and Amurrican. ‘Haven’t you been there? Is
that so? Then you can’t know half the joy that
I know.’ You wonder for a moment if you are a
genuine object of/pity. She has an air of simple
faith which assists the very young, unsophisticated
drawl of voice, and the innocent ping-pong eyes
slip ten years or so off the Van Buren birth-
day records. 1
“Mrs. York Sjfme—an easily recognised sister
Dry-dog of the cosy, free-and-easy
conditions of the Empress Club, London* A
smoking room is provided for the club members,
and, as all the families of any consequence in the
great hub s.lay time there, the picture is presented
to the mind of London’s loftiest women whiffing
the fragrant weed in negligent ease. ‘ Gentlemen
visitors ’ are admitted, and Mrs. Syme innocently
adds that) ‘neither political nor advanoed social
reform of any hind ’ is the reason of the club’s
existence.
“ A huge amount of mystery attaches to the
masked ball which is to happen sometime next
month. We hear of novel sets where the identity
of neighbors is to remain unknown, and only the
leader can place those in her traces. There is to
be a general drop of mask and domino somewhere
before midnight. Thereat all sorts of things
may be expected to happen, and the wailing of
the disillusionised is likely to rend the walls of
the Town Hall in twain.
‘•One trophy of Senator Staniforth Smith’s
jaunt to New Guinea is a portrait of the eight
dusky Papuan belles whose bare shoulders bore
the weight of his personal togs through certain
parts of the malaria province. Brother Senators
gaze with awe and envy on the group of choco-
late Graces. The girls look very alluring in their
way.
“The Shaksperian mummers of the Princess’s
are firm believers in fresh air, and they take it in
liberal portions three times or more a day. Some
of the stars actually rise what time Phoebus is
supposed to be ‘dappling the drowsy East,’and
revolve about the Gardens among the cold
statues, to return with large appetites to the
‘ Grand. ’ Anon they do the St. Kilda boulevards,
and later the Brighton beach, furred to the ears.
“ Miss Gertrude Alger, debuting at the Town
Hall on Saturday night, cradled the violin under
her intelligent chin with a certain amount of
fondness and loving protection. She gives a per-
formance that warms an audience, and the sparse
one assembled that night, though wearing its top-
coat and its muffler, wanted something of the
kind. The advertised age of Miss Alger is put
down as tender seventeen, and the performance
was a more than good one for that age.
“ The limit of the concert-goer’s patience has
about come. It’s the frost-nipping time of mid-
winter, and the City Council ought to be waited
on with a gun for the means to warm up
the Town Hall. The old joke about enthusiasm
catching a chill is a bit of cruel irony to the rheu-
matic subject and the weak-chested. On Saturday
matters reached a climax. The women sat
huddled up to their chins in cloaks and furs, while
elderly males whistled in their beards to keep
their lungs, at least, exercised. Over the arid
spaces of the hall the cold air swept, causing ears
and noses to take on a blue bloom, and gay
aigrettes in stylish thatches to swing to and fro
in pendulum fashion. Several young people war-
bled execrably, and a hard freeze was only
averted by the electrifying numbers of the girl
violinist.
“A cruel joke was played upon a smart bride
the other day. The dear gushers entrusted with
the packing-up of the going-awav clothes set to
work with active needles to make'all the lingerie
a wild tangle. Having sewn and cross-sewn
every single article of underwear, they set the
lot into elegant layers, scattering violet
sachets between, and then strapped up the boxes.
The joke was circulated, and the wretches have
been giggling ever since over a freezing form (or
a pair of them) laboriously untying the Gordian
knots and plying impatient scissors at the mazed
lines of thread. It isn’t the first time gigglesome
girls have tricked the jubilant bride. The label,
‘ Passengers for Paradise,’ is becoming a popular
gag among the luggage porters. Football hose
have been inserted instead of dainty embroidered
stockings, and other strictly feminine ‘ sells ’
been introduced into the sacred toilette trunks.
“ What becomes of all the one-appearance
concert girls ?. At recent concerts given by
visiting stars in Melbourne there was quite a
budding forth of young girls with small voices,
all of whom seem destined to go back immediately
to an uncongenial obscurity, as with so many of
their predecessors. Their one big concert will, no
doubt, form the subject of frequent reminiscence
in Jater years, and the half-line of dubious com-
mendation in the papers will be indelibly engraven
on their memories. There must be 50 or 100
Judies of this kind in Melbourne alone, but the
single-appearance man vocalist is a rarity. The
man with a small unworthy voice doesn’t get a
chance to figure on a big programme, mainly
because he can’t look nice and fetching in a short
white frock with flowers and strings of pearls,
and therefore doesn’t afford picturesque relief to
the dark-browed pianist or ’cellist who is giving
three-fourths of the show.
“Mrs. John Sandes, whose husband goes to
Sydney Telegraph shortly, cuts the stage for
good. Her infatuation has snuffed out, She is
going to establish the pots and pans of domestic
life in Sydney.
“ If you want to see the real soul of Eve, catch
her—all nerves strained, all the lust of greed in
her eye, all her selfishness concentrated —at a
bargain sale. There is the rare good-natured
huntress, that laughs as she loses. But the com-
moner sight is of her who snatches and snarls,
who fights for her remnant, tooth and nail, who
claws the contenders; and grins fiendishly every
time she nails a prize.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


YOUR DAUGHTER.
If your daughter is to be a happy, healthy woman, fit to bring up strong daughters of her own, she
must develop rightly now.
She must not be pale, sunken-eyed, backachy, sallow, languid and bloodless at this vital time.
She is at a crisis ! Give her new strength to tide it over. Give her more blood for her new functions.
Give her Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People—now. They actually make blood with every dose.
Then you, her mother, will see her develop into a full-breasted, warm, healthy, animated woman. Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills exercise a potent influence on growing girls—and women of all ages.
Advice for Women Free.— lf your daughter is not developing—if there is anything wrong with her
or you, or your husband, write to the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney. Tell plainly what
is the matter. We will answer you privately. We will tell you how Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills should be
used in such cases. AYrite to-day.
COMPLETE SUCCESS — “ In November, ’97, I got wet through in a shower. This brought on prolonged suffer-
ing. My limbs were so stiff and swollen, and I was so weak, that 1 could hardly walk. I lost all appetite and became
thin and terribly pale. I tried various supposed remedies, but they did not bring about the desired result My sister
hearing that Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills were efficacious, made me try them. In six v/eeks I was greatly improved • six
boxes of Dr. Williams’Pink Pills restored me to perfectly regular health, and assisted development wonderfully ' The
roses came into my cheeks, and I have been a bright, active girl ever since.” That’s the experience of Miss E Flemimr
Currawella, Yorkborough, via Taranga, N.S.W. '
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney.' 2s. 9d. a box ; six boxes, 15s. 3d.—post free.
6
%
$
PERSONAL ITEMS.
It is generally found to be pretty hard to
get people interested in what you used to be.
Said that Mr. Age Syme has bought the
shares of the Manifolds and others in the Ahgus.
Died in Yic. the other day Mrs. Bridget
Sheridan, who was the mother of 22 children
most of whom, with their father, survive her.
Engineer C. C. Nairn, who is now Acting.
General Manager of Railways in Tasmania, is son
of the Superintendent of Convicts of that name
m V.D.L. along ago.
Regarded as probable in Westralian Labor
circles that Kirwan, the sitting Rep for Kal
goorlie, will re-appear after the general election
pledged to the Tabor party.
Inspector Dinnie, M.L.’s new Com-
missioner of Police is a brother of Donald the
Scotch champion athlete, and has been somethin?
of a weight-putter himself in his day.
It is whispered that a blustering, bellowing
politician who lately became an inconsolable
widower, and publicly bedewed the earth with his
tears, has quietly entered the married state
again.
Tunbridge of Townsville, ex-Lieutenant-
Colonel of Queensland Defence Force and South
Africa, is going to try his luck at next Federal
elections either as Senator or Rep. He hasn’t
decided yet, but it is likely the electors have.
Mrs. R. Cohen, of Mudgee (N.S. YV.) i U st
dead at 87 years of age, left 14 children, 46 grand-
children, and 29 great grand-children. Children
and grand-children are almost the only crop that
conies up well of late years in rural Australia.
The late Dr. Norton Manning carried his
studies of the insane into private practice from
time to time. “As long,” he told a leading poli-
tician, “as you can laugh next day at what you
solemnly promised the day before, you are all
right.
Of the handful of men convicted at the
most recent Adelaide criminal sessions one had
been previously convicted 12 times, another 13
another 18, and another 23. That means that
the State has had 66 tries at reforming four
people, and has failed.
Resigned from Sydney Hospital Board,
Dr. Mackellar, because, it is said, of difficulty in
“getting on with” Dr. Arthur Renwick The
new appointee—Dr. John Creed—will, of course
get on well with everybody; that’s one of his
characteristics. There’s hardly a more affable
man living.
The proposal to make Parliamentary can-
didates undergo an examination in economics
would be rough on the new member
for Pilbarra (Westralia), Jas.
Isde.l. On arriving at Perth,
t'other day, Isdell cheer-
fully announced that lie
didn’t know anything
at all about politics—
what he’d come down
for was to get the
Pilbarra railway,
and he’d support
anybody or any-
thing that
would under-
take to lay it.
Ldell, who
was one of
the early
rushers to
Kimberley
and Broome,
haci not been
to Perth foi
17 years un-
til he came
down to get
the rai way ;
all the in-
tervening
years he has
been delving in the wilds.
Died, this week, at Geelong (Vic.), Arch-
deacon Slattery, author of the long-famous
admonition to his flock to “draw a free and
flashing sword” in the religion-in-schools fight.
He was long reckoned the liveliest man in dead
Geelong.
James Scandrett, who died at Kapunda
(S.A.) the other day, established and owned till
his death (a period of about 40 years) the local
Herald, S.A.’s top country paper. He was an
apprentice in the Government Printing Office in
its very early days.
That stately greybeard, William Jukes
Steward, of Maoriland, journalist, poet, politician,
knight, etc., got off nearly 1000 lines of execrable
verse as a result of his Island trip with the
Maoriland political drunk and picnic. Steward
can’t try on a pair of new boots without making
a pome about it.
Dr. Lloyd has been re-elected chairman
of the North Melbourne Justices for the 38th
consecutive year. Lloyd is the eccentric gentle-
man who almost always awards the girl a liberal
baby-support allowance, however frantically the
male defendant may protest that he never saw or
heard of her before.
When J. G. Duffy, Victorian M.L.A., was
speaking at Seymour 17 years ago he promised
butcher Thomas Bolton a bonus out of his own
pocket if ever he became the father of 20 children,
provided the Government refused to pay it.
Bolton's 20th child arrived recently, and Duffy
sent him a silver-plated jug.
As a vocalist N.S.W. Minister Owe’Sulli-
van has a rival in Westralian Treasurer Gardiner,
who has been singing at way-out political meet-
ings. The last N.S.W. Minister who committed
a crime of this sort was poor old Francis Abigail;
and worse things happened to him shortly after-
wards than to any other Minister or ex-Minister
that The Bulletin knows.
Canon Boyce has celebrated, in cold water,
the fiftieth anniversary of his arrival in Sydney.
The Canon’s wrestlings with the Australian liquor
bill, in which he always includes the duty paid on
the liquor as part of the cost of the drink itself,
are a national institution. He was a bank-clerk
originally, and takes to columns of figures as
other men to pints of beer.
The oldest Australian native is said to be
Mrs. T. Phillips, who resides in Brougham-street,
Woolloomooloo. Her age is given as 96. The
ancient lady, who is still active, says that she was
born in Kent-street, in the house next door to
ITArcy Wentworth’s. Mrs. Phillips is still strong
enough to go to funerals, the functions which kill
off so many younger people, and attended Dean
Cowper s the other day.
“Principal ” drops from the
held bv • so long
Dri * ..I 6 htte Walker. Henry Halloran appro-
that word without Cabinet warrant; but
made r he succeeded, applied to have it
w ,' p tof his official title, and his application
' % n tod. It never had a meaning in fact.
Wales Legislative Council has the
WilK« n ™ w?, P ° et amon Bst its members. Old
tn u r er v 66 wrote verses which were set
Hebrew at J saac Rthan, the composer of Byron’s
Rnnd-a • i nn 168 and the builder of Byron Lodge,
life tb? Ck 'v The cou 'P° ser . when aged 71, lost his
tram in'lB63 accident on the old Pitt-street
Judge Docker is the subject of still
another motion in N.S.W. Parliament. This
of bi'm 1S *, ls » who wants to get rid
.J' Docker ought to be about used to it by
f-be f ln ) e .' -P- Abbott (afterwards Speaker) set
the fashion by a blistering attack 17 years ago ;
Parliame f 1" ' ,aS Deen before pretty well every
One of the latest atrocities in self-adver-
tisement by millionaire Carnegie is the purchase
n0., 8 • ° Tudor cottages adjoining Shaks-
p re s birthplace in order to pull them down and
build another blessed Carnegie Free Library on
tne site. Ihe awful man will presently be setting
p “is philanthropical advt. next door to Maho-
met s Tomb at Medina.
Wanted: A Bill for the Suppression of
•tlenniker Heaton. This pleasant-faced, round-
stomached old gentleman appears in Australia for
a fortnight every two or three years, and then
goes back to Britain and claims to speak for
Australia. Strange to say, whatever Henniker
trunks is also the undoubted public opinion of
Australia according to Henniker. And it is
time Australia objected.
Obit., the other day, Frederick Matcham
DAt, the descendant of an old Hawkesbury
w ’) which intermarried with the
xaithfulls. Mrs. Pitt and her family of four
daughters and one son, Thomas Matcham Pitt,
came as free immigrants in the ship Canada, one
of the sam» fleet in which Margaret Catchpole
arrived, in December, 1801. Mr. T. M. Pitt was
the great-grandfather of the recently deceased.
1. S. Hall, the Mt. Morganaire, who died
in London lately, had the luck to get deep into
Queensland’s great gold mine through being sent
up to Rockhampton by the A. J.S. Bank when he
was a very junior clerk. Afterwards, when he
had joined the Q.N., he went back there as man-
ager in 1876, favorably remembered by the old
hands—it’s easy enough for a junior to be “ favor-
ably remembered ” ; it isn’t so easy for a manager
to be. Anyhow, this favorable remembrance
brought him clients and would be clients, among
them the discoverers of the rich show. He took
it up, and was the first chairman of the co.
PAVING THE WAY.
H ER: “I mentioned to pa that you had a private
income. ”
HIM: “Hum! I thought you'd done something
like that. He borrowed a tenner off me."
F. W. Amsinck, pensioned Victorian
Post-office official, whose death is recorded, was
related to half-a-dozen British admirals and other
weighty persons. The Amsincks, originally from
Groningen (Holland), branched out into German
“noble” families, and produced a long line of
lawyers, bankers, ship-owners, burgomasters, and
other personages of wealth and stomach. The
Amsincks of Hamburg are in the shipping busi-
ness. Another of the race is the veteran Sydney
journalist, connected with Reuter’s telegraphic
agency.
REALLY HARD TOIL.
"Why don't I work? Strike me pink, an ’ Eve
bin orl ther mornin’ tryin’ to bustle the price
of er beer outer ’ard-’edded coves like you!
Why, you don’t know what work is!”
13r. Norton Manning, N.S. W. ex-Inspector
General of the Insane, survived his colleague and
friend, Critchett Walker, but five days. Both
were bachelors, living in chambers a few doors
apart, and died in the same week, unattended by
any near relatives. Critchett Walker had one or
two unobtrusive connections, but Dr. Manning
was in no way related to either of the Manning
families prominent in Svdney, and left no one
connected with him in Australia.
Fustian of a man without imagination.
John See, the other night, flaring up at the inter-
jections of his opponents in Parliament: “ I know
that some of you would treat me as the conspira-
tors treated King Alexander and Queen Draga;
but I defy you.” Another N.S.W. Premier,
similarly excited, cried : “Ha ! I am not the first
man to be hounded down. ‘ Away with him, away
with him ; crucify him, crucify him ’ —that is the
wa .y you talk ! ” This habit of talking in large
capitals and italics always suggests a barren mind.
Governor-General Tennyson indicates he
would like to send his children to school in Aus-
tralia, but etiquette obliges him to school them in
England. Etiquette has been just arranged then.
Gov. Hamilton, of Tasmania (when it was a
‘sovereign State”), sent his boy to the local
Christs College. King Leopold of Belgium, by
the way, sent all his children, princes and prin-
cesses, to the local public schools. It was demo-
cratic, but it was also bad policy. A prince is
j jst like anybody else, but the monarchical tradi-
tion depends on keeping the fact dark.
1 he death of Cardinal Vaughan reminds
that a big book about Roger Vaughan, his
brother, is in manuscript somewhere about
Sydney or Melbourne. The late Father Barry,
one time prefect of St. John’s College, Sydney,
compiled a biography of the Archbishop of
Sydney. The Vaugh ans are a remarkable family,
in State and church. The youngster of the group
—Kenelm—lately performed a mulebaek ride of
thousands of miles with the supposed bones of a
murdered Jesuit he wants canonised. And the
Jesuit was murdered a couple of hundred years
ago.
At a Melbourne meeting the other day
(called to sympathise with the woes of the Jews
m Russia), Rev. Bleeds Fitchett referred to Rev.
Peace Rentjul’s absence, “which appeared con-
spicuous” to him. Rev. Rentoul promptly
retorted in a letter to the press, which concluded :
lam aware how Russians answer back. They say :
“ You English have killed 20,000 children and women in
the fever camps of South Africa. You drove away from
their Christian homes over 100,000 Protestant women and
men, and left two Christian republics desolate. The
Rand is now in the hands of Jewish financiers. You are
suppressing a people’s language there, as we also are in
Finland. Don’t be hypocrites.”
And I only wish that Dr. Fitchett and others would
become true Liberals, and protest against other tyranniis
done to peoples and nationalities, whether Jew or
Christian, whether Catholic or Protestant.
And the Rev. Bleeds bled in silence.
Two old men :
Adye Douglas, Tasmanian politician, and Daniel
Murphy, Tasmanian R.C. Archbishop and champion
chess-player, are both 88 years old. Douglas celebrated
his birthday on May 31, and last week the Archbishop
celebrated his on June 18, the anniversary of Waterloo.
Dr, Murphy was born while the battle was being fought!
Twenty years ago he went to Rome and saw Leo XIII.
When they were parting, Leo said to Daniel: “ Good-
bye, this is the last time we’ll meet on earth.” Ten
years later Leo was still keeping house at the Vatican
and Daniel dropped in once again to see him, and told
him that it didn’t speak well for his infallibilitv that they
had met again in the flesh. Last year a deputation
headed by Minister Teddy Mulcahy, waited on the Arch-
bishop to congratulate him on his birthday, when the
gay old gentleman told the above yarn. “ And,” said he
“ now after another ten years if I could go to Rome I’d
remind his Holiness again of this lack of infallibility
which I pointed out before.”
Latest addition to Victoria’s Assembly is a
specimen of the full-fledged Kyabramapootra.
J. J. Carlisle, who was returned for Benalla and
Yarrawonga to replace Hall, M.L.A,, deceased,
is a wheat-grower and wine-maker. In the lat:er
capacity he has received large bonuses partly paid
by the city workmen, and is thus a bumptious
pauper who lived in a measure on the charity of
the Trades Hall people. Needless to say he isn’t
grateful.
“ X. 0.” has a reminiscence :
Alex. Fyfe, whose death was recorded in Bulletin
16/5/’O3, was at one time a member of Queensland
Parliament, returned for Rockhampton and district
about 1864, I think. He was probably one of the two
earliest paid members in Australia. The industrial and
commercial sections of the district subscribed £4OO a
year to pay him as an anti-squatting member. Another
member advocating similar policy and paid bv subscrip-
tion was returned about the same time. Fyfe’s failure
was caused by the kind of drought that settled many
othe.s. An incident of his election was the issue of
posters by his supporters—“ Vote for Fyfe. You Will
Always Find Him.” Beneath which opponents pasted a
tag with the word “ Drunk.”
If Stafford Bird had not lost his seat for
Franklin at the last Tasmanian election, he would
have been Speaker of the new House. “Nick”
Brown is ponderous and obscure, and there would
not be a row if a change were made. Brown de-
feated Bird for the Speakership in 1897 —after
Bird had occupied the chair a Parliament—by a
narrow majority ; and a like thing happened the
Parliament before that, when Bird just beat
Lrown, who had also held the Speakership for a
Parliament. In fact, it is a case of Brown and
Bird turn about, only the turns aren’t shared
evenly, and there is too much Brown.
Vic. Railways Minister Thomas Bent
masqueraded as adjudicator in a recent municipal
dispute. His judgment is described as a master-
piece of crass ignorance. In reading his judg-
ment he stuck fast more than once, fell over
the English language badly, and misread
things in an alarming way. After the judgment
had been delivered there was a great silence, for
neither side had the least idea what it meant, and
no one knew which had gained the verdict until
explanations were forthcoming. Bent, by the
way, is reputed to write “stopped” with one “p,”
and to take other liberties with the British lan-
guage.
News comes of the marriage in London of
Cyril Forster, the soldier son of N.S.W. Premier
and fighting Parliamentarian, William Forster.
There was fine work in old Forster. He was a
biter and hitter all his life. When called to form
a Ministry (he only formed one) he tilled Sydney
with trouble and made enough enemies to fill a
dozen Ministries. He and all his team are now
dead. Forster was perhaps the most intellectual
of old schoolmaster Cape’s pupils. His bent was
towards classical literature and the romantic
myths of the outer world. He was a native of
Madras, and was for a time Agent-General in
London.
Governor Kintore, now a London guinea-
pig. was lately sued by a shareholder in a Cold
Storage co. on account of misrepresentations in
the prospectus of said co. Kintore and other
directors settled the case by agreeing to take over
the plaintiff’s shares, which arrangement seems to
leave them open to legal proceedings by all the
rest of the suffering shareholders. The judge “ex-
pressed regret that gentlemen had lent their
honored names to people carrying on the most
unwholesome and sometimes unholy trade of com-
pany promotion.” Kintore’s name is still regarded
in London as something religious and good. His
father was an amateur preacher of the Word.
One heart-breaking incident occurred in
connection with the mysterious mission of a
boat-load of Maoriland law-makers to the South
Seas. Directly the vessel cast anchor off one of
the islands, a prominent Minister, in his scurry to
get ashore to fire off a patriotic speech and present
the local king with a quarter of a pound of bad
tobacco, missed his footing, and, instead of
stepping into the boat alongside, fell into the sea,
where he tried to curse but only gurgled. The
seat of his waistcoat was promptly snatched by
a large-fisted member of the boat s crew, and the
dripping legislator was hauled aboard and spread
out to dry. But the cheap, immaculate frock suit
he had donned to strike awe into the naked and
savage breast had shrunk to a large baby’s size
and was quite useless.
Captain H. D. Haggard, secretary of the
Adelaide Hospital, just dead, was the alleged
cause, in his earlier days, of the breaking up of a
bouth Australian Governor’s more or less miserable
home. He was an aide-de-camp then, and a
useful one. . But the Governor had given his wife
a ring, which was afterwards discovered in the
possession of a noted lady of loose walk, hair and
conversation. The police undertook to unravel
the mystery, but suddenly the Governor stopped
proceedings, and (presumably because Haggard
knew too much) dismissed the A.D.C. with great
violence. Which was ungrateful on the Gover-
nors part, for he and the A.D.C. looked very
much alike, especially in a dim light; and many
a time when his Ex. got hurriedly out of a house
that he shouldn t have been in, he, or some oblig-
circulated the report that it was the
A.D.C., and not his superior, who fled home in
the dawning.


To Play your Piano
E
The Pianola will aid you.
Would you believe there are nearly one
hundred thousand pianos lying idle in
Australia ?
Did it ever occur to you how very little
your piano is being used ?
Do you know the Pianola will enable
you to play your piano at once, although
you may never have played one note in
your life ?
If you will write us we will mail you
free a catalogue explaining how. Ask for
Catalogue “B.”
The price of the Pianola is £6O prompt
cash, or £65 on moderate monthly pay-
ments.
J*
HENRY M. BIRGE& CO.,
Sole Agents for Australasia,
SYDNEY : 323 Ceorge St.,
MELBOURNE: 185-187 Collins St
MR. J. SPENCER NOLAN, R.D.S.
Single teeth from 5s Teeth filled, scaled and bleached.
DENTAL SURGEON, 43 Oxford-st., Sydney
r,_\ T „ lo _ T , xr (between Mark Foy’s and Riley-st.). HIGH-CLASSI
L)r.lS Ilb TRY at lowest prices. Guaranteed absolutely painless extractions by latest American system—a great'
success. Beautiful and perfect-fitting atmospheric suction sets of American teeth, giving the wearer ease, J
comfort and natural appearance. Coraline gum plates, without springs or wires. Elastic Gum Coraline is the,
most recent, up-to-date plate for mounting teeth. All wrinkles and nollow cheeks disappear. It is so natural-|
that it defies detection. For comfort, strength and lightness it surpasses everything previously introduced, i
Coraline is perfectly tasteless, and remains wholesome and pure. Badly fitting plates remodelled on this new ,
system. L p-to-date gold crowns. Call and see specimens of latest methods. Upper and lower sets from £llB-
- visitors fitted in one day if required.
DAVID STORER & SONS’ ,n Jhr “ bed and blue
Registered
Trade
Is the Only Absolutely
SAFE
Wcol-
Marking «r
The Perfect Sheep-Marker. BRANDING OIL
Kept by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors. —In the case of ethnological and
natural history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience ;or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific
value.
“Werrimee”: Re shearing query (B.
13/6/’O3). “Jimmy” Power is generally con-
sidered the champion machine shearer of Aus-
tralia, his highest tally being 315 mixed sheep in
7hrs. 40mins., made at Barenya (Q.), Sept. 21,
1895. It is said, however, that the majority of
these sheep were bellied, and many of them were
rosellas. His best season, for a run of sheds,
totalled 40,000. But seasons vary in length, as
shearers go from State to State. “ Jacky ” Howe
has done better with the “tongs,” shearing 327
full-fleeced sheep in 7hrs. 20mins., at Alice Downs
(Q.). This, I think, was in ’95, after a period of
drought. Record tallies are only made in sheds
where the men are allowed a free cut; most
managers restrict the men to a certain number,
seldom over 150, to avoid tomahawking. As
machines cut low and clean, the tallies will
average better than those made by hand. Breed,
condition and weight of sheep, weight of wool,
and the season just passed through, have a lot to
do with the tally-barometer. Fastest cuts are
made among lambs ; next come fat merino ewes;
while a big drop occurs in the wethers. Such
particulars should always be given ; then one could
at least get an approximate value of the records
posted.
# * * •
Noticed lately a Melbourne cab-horse with
jive feet. The extra foot, a well-formed one, but
small, is attached to the pastern of one of the
hind legs. The animal is otherwise just a common
or back-street cab-horse.
“ Spring ” : Some people
have strange recreations. I once
met, in a cheap Sydney lodging-
house, a man who had a high
social position in another State.
He was dressed in shabby-genteel
clothes, lived on about Is. 6d. a
day, smoked cheap cigarettes,
saving the butts, and generally
behaved like a gent in reduced
circumstances. He confided to
me that he was over on a holiday,
enjoying the pleasures of poverty,
a month of whicli sent him back
to his work fit to enjoy his salary
and tackle the biggest of din-
ners. There lived in the same
house another eccentric indivi-
dual, whose shabby gentility was
quite real. His sole amusement
was to haunt the vicinity of high
buildings in course of erection,
and gloat dismally over the
chances of a bricklayer falling off.
He came home quite cheerfully
one night and told me that a
bricklayer nearly fell off, and
that he had great hopes. He said
bricklayers were a disappointing
race, and he had only seen one
fall in three years, but he was
now on the track of a reckless
artisan from whom he expected
much. Next night that crank
was missing. The bricklayer fell
on him just when he was lighting
his pipe, and he never even had
the pleasure of knowing what
struck him.
* * »
An Adelaide market-garden-
ing Chinaman has worked out the
size of money as it looks to the
European and the Chow ; in his
will he provided that everybody
who attended his funeral should
be paid—Europeans 25., Chinese
6d. Apparently he wasn’t sure,
on reflection, that he hadn’t been
too liberal towards the Chinese,
wherefore he added that they
should only draw their sixpences by instalments
of twopence a time.
* • • •
“ Elmore ” : Saw a good go t’other day.
The warm weather we’ve been having evidently
made one gohanna think he’d turned in too early ;
anyhow, he got prowling about till something
scared him. Then he made for a big dry box, and
was just going in a hollow when he suddenly
backed out on to a small limb followed by a
’possum. The ’possum was evidently excited, and
was clawing for all he was worth. Out backed
the gohanna further and further till the limb
broke and both fell about 30ft. The ’possum
quickly clambered up his own tree again and the
gohanna, after a few seconds’ rumination, went
further on, neither being apparently hurt by the
fall. How far can animals fall with impunity ?
• * • *
“Deeby”: I met a swagman out west,
who assured me he was an illegitimate son of
King Tummy. Beyond being a short, thick-set
man, he bore no resemblance to his royal nibs.
But then all photos, are fakes. Apropos: A well-
known Sydney draper is reported to claim a
similar “distinction.”
“M.E.L.” : An out-back medico
was recently called to an
urgent oase. When
two miles on the
road he suddenly
turned his horse
homewards, say-
ing— “ I’ve for.
gotten something
very important.”
Accompanied by
his anxious
guide, he went
back the two
miles, and going
into his surgery
blew out
the can-
die,
which
he had
inadver-
tently
left
burning,
and ad-
ded the
four ex-
tra miles
to his
account I
Same
man soon
after re-
ceived a
wire from
a philan-
thropic
country
postmaster: “ Poor woman rather seriously burnt.
Wire instructions.” The reply was : “Apply oil
and lime, equal quantities—my fee 10s. 6d.; please
send Collect.” That telegram is now one of the
most cherished possessions of the P. 0., and
can jo viewed on payment of a small donation
towards liquidating the liability.
“ C.8.J.” : An old identity of the Upper
Murray told me the following:—“Hotels then
were few and far between, and shanties every-
where. On many a bush racecourse it was not
unusual to see a hollow log pressed into service as
a booth. The log contained bottles of spirits,
corkscrew and glasses, but no barman was to be
seen. You felt dry. Well, you led up your
friends to the log, had your nip, replaced every-
thing as you found it, and left your money in the
log. No one ever thought of ‘ doing the publican
in.’ Speaks well for the honesty of the ‘old
class.’ On one occasion a curious bobby watched
the ‘ hotel ’ for a whole day, but was no wiser at
the end of it as to who was enjoying the profits.”
* * * *
“ R.S.” : He birds’-nesting. The jackass
mostly nests in a rotten and horizontal, or slightly
drooping tree-limb, so that the nests can only be
examined at the risk of a broken neck. Rose lias
nest in any handy hollow, high or low. Lories
try to dodge the hawks by nesting far down in
pipey tree-trunks. Cockatoos choose the highest
hollow trees, and make a great noise where they
don’t intend to lay. And, by the way, has any-
one noticed the close friendship at nesting time —
apparently for protection—between minahs, mud-
larks and magpies ?
MISS MARY VAN BUREN, LEADING LADY
OF THE FRAWLEY COMPANY.
Photo, by Thori, San Francisco.
The native cherry tree, which used to be
largely found along the banks of the Northern
(N.S.W.) rivers, is rapidly disappearing, and now
almost a thing of the past. The berries are beau-
tifully flavored, and make excellent jam. Yet no
attempt has been made to protect this shrub,
which, by the way, carries handsome dark-green
foliage, and is as ornamental as it is useful. The
fauna and flora of Australia seem to be rapidly
passing away—barring the gum-tree, which holds
out pretty well.
WHEN HE DO.
THE GOOD PASTOR (to lady whose husband has
just wrecked the place): “ Dear me, Mrs.
Spicer , I always thought your husband was
such a nice, quiet, sober man, who would
never do anything like this.”
MRS. S. : "So he is. But when he do, he do.”
Evidence given in a Palmerston (Maori-
land) dog-ownership case:
One day my dog and his dog were fighting on the road.
He came along, and we both saw the fight out. Then I
was certain he owned the dog.
• * * *
Apropos “ rain-making.” It was present
Works Minister O’Sullivan who, 14 years ago,
first proposed that the Govt, should try artificial
means to break up a drought at Broken Hill.
• • • •
“6x8”: Why do reports of political
palaver meetings invariably lay such severe stress
upon the fact that a few ladies were present ? Out-
back where the dead-beats lie these ladies are
mostly gins, who applaud vigorously with the
clean-picked spine of the native bear.
* • • »
“Elmore”: Any of your Aboriginaliars
got any good records of a rabbit catch ? Here’s
my best: Two trappers, 130 traps, set on about
300 acres. First round (sundown) 58 pair ; lantern
round 46£ pairs; morning 53 pairs; total, lolk
pairs, and out of this lot 127 pairs were classed as
firsts. This was on Table Top station (N.S.W.)
* * * *
“ J.D.” on a public disgrace :
As the cocky’s overworked youngsters find so
many to voice their woes, will some one stand
on the fence and call loudly on behalf of the State
kid, boarded out to hag boarding-housekeepers
and lodging-houses ? The cocky has some ex-
cuse, for the State contributes nothing to the
support of his large family of embryo agri-
culturists, while it pays ss. weekly for the scanty
food and clothing the State kid receives until
said kid is 12 years of age. The only protection
the State child receives from overwork and
tyranny is the occasional visit of a languid
inspector who, in nine cases out of ten, trusts to
his own eyesight to tell him of the child’s treat-
ment. The sbe-cat who ran my last “diggings,”
kept, in place of a general servant, a tiny State
girl aged eleven, whose life was a round of misery
with a junk of Hell thrown in. She got on
the wheel at 6 a.m. and finished all scrubbing,
cleaning, and dusting before breakfast. I have
seen her scrub out washhouse, kitchen, and back
and front verandahs, polish hall linoleum and
do a general dusting, besides lighting fires and
laying breakfast-table, before 8 a.m. She bolted
a scanty meal in the kitchen, then washed up
and went full speed till 9.30, when the harridan
would inform her that she could go to school.
Then the tiny machine would race breakneck
speed up the back lane to evade punishment for
being late. Many mornings she was not allowed
to go to school till 11 o’clock, the hag saying
that she had not performed sufficient work for
the morning. Washing days she was kept at
home all day, and assisted in all the heavy work.
At lunch hour she laid the table, and flew mess-
ages, sneaking occasional bites at her dinner
between her runs to the butcher and the groeer.
After school she tore round like a racing screw,
prepared all vegetables for dinner, cleaned
knives, and set table, then washed up the whole
caboose of dirty plates and dishes, and made a
general cleaning of the dirty’ kitchen. If she
finished before eight o’clock, her usual bed-hour,
she was allowed to sit in the kitchen with the
gas turned down and count the cockroaches that
came out fora look round. During the visit of
one of the hag’s daughters she slept on the floor
of an empty room, the daughter occupying her
bed. My wife inspected the bedding, and found
an old mattress, a worn-out blanket, and rug, with
no sheets. It is difficult to suggest any scheme that will
check the evil. The inspector sees nothing to cavil at,
and the sweater is so pleasant when he calls that he goes
away impressed that the child has seven courses for din-
ner, and sleeps in the big brass bed in the balcony room.
• • * *
“Paw-Paw” (Goondi) : The “sewing
bird ” (about the size of a tomtit) sews the leaves
of grass, or the wild strawberry, together for a
nest. The sewing is done with spider webs, and
when the nest is complete and lined with spider’s
“ silk ” it is a charming little residence.
THE SPIELERS AND THE GYRL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It wa9 in the humble parlor of a Brisbane public-house,
There was James and there w’as Joseph and The Girl.
James and Joseph they were spielers of considerable nous,
And possessed the style and manners of an earl.
Very ugly were the attributes of Joseph and of James,
For they earned an easy living by acquiring artful games
Which the magistrates are apt to call by very nasty names,
And the trusted silent partner was The Girl.
James had lately struck a notion of a quite uncommon
kind,
And explained it unto Joseph and The Girl.
He had bought two hundred packs of cards as good as he
could find.
’Twas a scheme to make a person’s whiskers curl !
He would go as far as Adelaide and not attempt to sell,
But would leave some packs as samples, free, at every
large hotel,
And would quote a price absurdly low (and mark the
backs as well).
’Twas a plan approved by Joseph and The Girl I
Joseph had to stay in Brisbane till he got a wire from
(I should mention it was James that owned The Girl.)
When he’d go by boat to Adelaide and there begin the
games,
Working back by rail to Brisbane and The Girl.
See the dodge? ' It was one spieler left the cards along
the route
While the other had to play the games and gather in the
loot.
Fair division of the proceeds, and to save all coarse dis-
pute,
All the cash to go to Brisbane to The Girl!
James and Joseph met in Adelaide, where James soon
made it plain
Which hotels would have the sample cards on hand.
James then took the boat for Brisbane while his partner
took the train.
Twas as neat a spieler’s plot as e’er was planned !
But when James got back to Brisbane, then The Girl
explained to Jim
That his partner had persuaded her to be untrue to him '
DIDN’T KNOW IT TEAS LOADED.
NEW-CHUM (as the ’roo kicks him below the belt): “ Bai Jove!
the familiarity of these beastly Australian plague rats
is astounding. Perhaps the poor brute is — aw — delirious.”
There was language filled the atmosphere that made the
gas burn dim !
Still The Girl had got the coin, you understand 1
Like all ladies who deceive their lords, The Girl was full
of woe,
For her one and only love, of course, was Jim !
And she sobbed and sighed and murmured that “she
really didn’t know
What came over her to be untrue to him ” 1
But The Girl had got the plunder, and she counselled Jim
to wait
Until Joe got through Victoria, and she got desperate.
For “ she loved him, and for Joseph she had nothing else
but hate ! ’’
She was loaded with repentance to the brim !
Now, when Joe arrived at Goulburn he had done ex-
tremely well,
And the coin had gone to Brisbane to The Girl!
But the luck changed all at once, and how it did he
couldn’t tell,
The disaster set his senses all a-whirl.
For the cards appeared to be the same, and yet he went
to smash,
And the “ Solo Whist Conspiracy ’’ became a frightful
hash !
By the time he got to Sydney he had just sufficient cash
To return to James and Brisbane and The Girl!
When poor Joseph got to Brisbane blank despair awaited
him I
Empty house 1 No Jim 1 No home i 1 No cash !1 i No
Girl !i! 1
But the landlord found a letter which was left behind by
Jim.
And for shortness and for sharpness ’twas a pearl
" When I found, my old friend Joseph, that The Girl
you’d tried to hug,
I went back as far as Goulburn I Changed the cards to
fool a tug 1
But, good-bye, old mant I’m sorry that you took me for
a mug!
I am off to-day to 'Frisco with The Girl 1”
W. T. GOODGE.


A Drink t A Tonic I A Medicine I
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Call lor WOLFIi’S Schnapps and make sure tbai
you take nothing else.
Why do Buyers
Come to Us for Rings ?
Ist. Because we are the actual makers.
2nd. Because we are Art Ring designers.
3rd. Because our rings are in exquisite
taste.
4th. Because our prices are the lowest.
Marquese Ring,
Diamonds & Sapphire*,
£l2/12/-
(joj.
0 Exquisite Pearls,
42/
0-stone Diamond
Half-Hoop,
a marvel of value,
£5/5/-
Plain Figures.
Strictly Cash.
sth. Because we buy large quantities of Diamonds in the rough and cut them.
6th. Because we buy Sapphires in the rough and cut them in Sydney.
7th. Because we buy Opal in the rough and cut it in our Hunter-street rrrmiitt
Bth. Because we have Pearls direct from the Fisheries.
9th. Because we pay Spot Cash for all the above.
10th. We sell for Cash. No intermediate profits any where.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
Hanufacturing Jewellers,
23 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY.
Australia may see, in what Broken
Hill is being driven to do through
its want of water, a shocking ex-
ample of what some day it will
be driven to do itself if it
doesn't mend its ways.
Broken Hill has one mine
alone which, in 12
years, has paid
£7,600,000 in divi-
dends, most of
which money
has gone out
of Australia;
yet, whenever
the suggestion
was made that
it should col-
lect a decent tax
from the mining
co’s. (all the mines
are within the
municipality) and
get a respectable
water supply of
its own, there
were agonised
cries that it
would be
“ suicidal to
tax our own
bread and but-
ter ” and that,
if such a thing
w one, “ capital would
be driven out of the
country.” So nobody
was taxed, and the
town, out of which all
this wealth was being
carted away, was left
without a public water supply, or
lighting, or anything that a town
should have. When it wanted to
build a town-hall even, it borrowed the
few hundreds necessary, and when it hasn’t
been able to borrow, it has leaned up against the
central Government. And now, just because it
didn t have sense enough to get a water supply out
of its own vast wealth, lest it should slightly reduce
some foreign person’s pile, it is hanging out its
tongue and cutting a quaint figure before Aus-
tralia, while it chaffers with some Yankee rain-
fakir.
• * * «
The long sandbank which blocks the mouth
of Lake Illawarra (N.S.W.) is just now strewn
with thousands of dead eels, aggregating a weight
of many tons. The same thing lias occurred several
times previously in this lake. The mortality is
said to arise through the large quantities of fresh
water which periodically flow into the lake, which
has no outlet to the sea.
* * * •
“6x8”: Faith in molasses cure for can-
cers still seems to hold out in N.Q. One Alfred
Faux, of Kavandale, near Mirani (N.Q.), recently
wrote to Mackay Chbonicle that he had cured a
mare of two “ ugly, red, swamp cancers ” by only
two external applications of raw molasses, without
even leaving a scar, while hair again covered the
erstwhile diseased parts. If true, this is extra-
ordinary. Severe horse-sores invariably leave
hairless scars. Unless all we hear and read
is fabrication, or result of coincidence, crude
molasses must possess some curative power. The
matter seems worth a thorough overhaul by ex-
perts. Since, as has been frequently asserted,
treacle (t'.e., refined molasses) has not the effect of
the raw material, it seems to indicate that the
crude product contains a substance which is des-
troyed in the refining proc&ss. [Molasses as a
“cure” for cancer was tested and failed years
ago.—Ed. B.]
♦ * • •
“A.R.Y.”: At a shearing shed near
Tumbarumba a man offered for a wager to shear
a sheep while on the top strand of a six-wire fence.
This he successfully accomplished. He began by
taking up his position on the fence and removing
his coat and waistcoat. He next sharpened his
shears; the sheep was handed up and shorn in
about the time usually taken on the board. It
was uncomfortable for the sheep, but the man
seemed all right.
A woman in the Western district (Vic.)
owns and manages a large dairy-farm. She is a
practical forewoman,
cows night and
her employees;
cutting, pitch-
tivating, and
Suggestive
phyxia
She milks as many
morning-as any of
assists at chaff-
ing sheaves, cul-
otner farm work,
of Miss As-
Smith, the lady
farmer, in one of
Mrs. Beecher
Stowe’s
books.
HUNTING WILD PIGS ON THE MOONIE.
The only tree for half-a-mile.
“Bunny” : A country newspaper speaks
of the “ Second Annual Lying Competition” at
the Hawkesbury Agricultural College. Surely
this is an error.
AT THE AXEMEN'S CARNIVAL.
DISAPPOINTED BACKER (to “ busted ” competitor):
“ You chop? Why, you couldn't win a
dashed argument with an axe! ”
Our great Australian Seeing
a crowd collected in Queen-street t’other night, I
asked an onlooker what the trouble was, and he
said: “A blanky cop’s pinched a bloke for
nippin’ tommy off a pie-stalb There ’e gows in
the flounder” ; and he pointed to where a hansom
was disappearing down the street.
What a moaning hypocrite is the Vic.
“Poor Farmer,” the man who incited
Irvine and Bent to the dirty job of
trijile-taxing. the public servants to
pay for his own evasions of
legitimate taxation. The truth
can only be.found in the wills
and insolvency paragraphs in
the dailies. The alleged poor
farmer is always to be found
under the former heading,
very seldom under the
other. Melb. Agk of
3rd June gave par-
ticulars of the wills
of six farmers who
left from £2500 to
.£lB,OOO apiece. The
five insolvents for
that day were respec-
tively school - master,
railway station - master,
baker, miner, and blacksmith.
And thisis mainly typical.
The road from Sydney to Parramatta,
begun in 1798, wa3 made on the eight-hour prin-
ciple. Kesidents in good positions were compelled
to lend their employees in batches, and Governor
Hunter fixed the regulation that “each day’s
work shall consist of eight hours.”
WHEN YOU TACKLE IT AGAIN!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I had done hard work in boyhood—was accustomed to it
then,
Look’d upon it as no trouble, but the common lot of men
I had all day the mattock, “ breaking-up ” the
virgin soil,
And in summer in the quarry did the hottest kind of toil.
But I never called it hardship, or was tortured by the
pain
I have felt since, having left it, I’d to tackle it again 1
I had bought a “little bus’ness” and put in some years
at that—
It was easy work, although the profits didn’t make me
fat.
In an evil time I sold out, and soon after mourned the
fact,
For I found the labor market inconven-i-ently packed.
I had weeks and weeks of trying ; then, when Hope was
on the wane,
Came an offer of some hard work—so I tackled it again !
I’d a friend with land for farming, so he set me
“ breaking-up,"
And before the job was finished I had emptied Sorrow’s
cup 1
Though I started at it blithely with a thankful heart and
gay,
I was feeling mighty doubtful ere had dawned a second
day;
For the pain of aching muscles, and of untired, wakeful
brain,
Made me dread the coming daylight when I’d tackle it
again !
Day succeeded day in torture ; night succeeded night
the same X,
Naught but aching joints and muscles seemed my over
wearied frame. ,- . -! ■
And ’twas full a month, ere hard work and my muscles
got in chime— .. -. >
One long month of keenest suffering ; seeming to me all
the time
“ Breaking-up” was breaking-nw up, for I nearly went
insane;
Oh ! it’s Hell and Inquisition when you tackle it again I
ULOOLA.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will betaken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. So liability is under-
taken in any ease re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by post or handed in ; and in
no ease will MS. be returned unless stamps (oj‘ any
State) accompany.
Via: Who is the ex-P.M.G. referred to? You
might take u» into your confidence A. Williams:
Don’t agree with you fully. The Commonwealth should
take over, and consolidate at reduced interest when
possible, and start paying off the State debts. Whether
they are called Federal or State debts the same people
owe them; but the Australian Parliament looks like a
body which might have the courage to tax the people for
the purpose of clearing off the liability, and the State
Parliaments don’t. Therefore the Australian Parliament
should control the debt. It wouldn’t be “ a splendid
thing” to be able to point to the Australian Parliament
as a body that is free from debt while the Australian
people owe £200,000,000. But it would be “ a splendid
thing ” to be able to point to Australia free from debt....
Solomon Smith : But in the " early days” Maoriland had
practically no foreign debt. Now it has to export and
sell over £3,000,000 worth of goods of one kind or
another in order to get the money with which to pay
interest on its public and private foreign debts. A
country in that state can’t put on export duties
R.A.K. : Know a man who married on 6s. a week
and he is getting 1000 s. a week now, and puts it
down a good deal to the fact that matrimony was an
incentive to “ hustling.”. ...Pike o’Sox : Some skill in
rhyming, but doesn’t quite pass muster.. ..Jack Shay :
Threnody on shilling drinks all blank when it is not
blarfky....Flex : (I) We’ll comment when things have
ripened a little. (2) It is not a sharp enough "pome”
to cut Bent with Quilp-E : Neither is any good. Also
please get further away from another man’s pen-name,
"Quilp N.”...1vy Leaves : Both very weak in the literary
way, though one is much too “ strong ” in another sense.
....D.A.S. : Great lack of 5ki11.... Wimmera : A wild
scurry of trumpery ideas through half-a-dozen
metres Wonko : Best leave sarcasm alone. The
bludgeon is obviously your weapon—not the rapier
F.N. : Made an attempt to straighten it out ; but —alas !
Dolly B. : Very well written, but the theme is too moss-
grown.. . .Swaddy : All been said before —and better....
LX.L. : You excel, do you f Can’t see it.... Marj : Will
inquire about the other screed. This one doesn’t miss
the mark by very much W. Mac : You think j’ou’ve
“a decided literary gift.” Well, you conceal it with
great skill J.F.D. (W.A.) : You should have made
that hay while the Jingo sun was shining Lillian:
One joke old ; t’other not clean... .M.B.J. : Will probably
print" Koomatiport.” Socker: Hopeless.. ..H. Stone :
Will probably print " Maggie.” "Hand of Providence”
very lame in some of its lines.. ..Uloola : “Joseph” not
equal to your previous "Ballade of a Platitude”....
L.M.D. : Will print verses re grinning skeleton.... One as
Knows I One verse is quite enough :
An ancestor he hasn’t got
He talks a lot of tommy rot
And his success is due to what?
He has a motor car I I
....Double J. : Practically the same yarn appeared
in Thb Bulletin about a year ago C. O’B. : You’ve
made a dreadful mess of a very promising “situation.”..
Titlark : Trite sentiment in weak and wobbly verse
Juggings : Choked off it by your awful “ fist.”.. ..Miss
P. (Forbes): We do not reply by letter. Tale crude and
awkward, but there’s nothing in it to prove that you
couldn’t do much better.... Etin : "Without form and
v0id.”.... Jamrac (or something like that): No time to
decipher hieroglyphics... .W.J.B. : Feeble in places, bub
gives promise of good future work.. ..P.N.A.: Style
much too heavy and laborious.. ..Dick : “Love” and the
“moon” and “dreams” want a good long rest....
J. B. Pinker: But Henr.v Lawson isn’t dead. Hi*
death was only the fool-inveDtion of a fool London
paper O.P. : Poem rejected Roma: “Exciting
Race ” not bad, yet not quite good enough
C. : “The Skunk” immature insipidity Nipper:
Regret “Coleman’s Change ” not sterling value S.R.:
“The Bungledore Ripsnorters ” smartly written, but it
has all been written before, even more smartly....
P.L.T. : “Three Outcasts” is a weird horror without
interest.. ..F.B.S. : “ The Legacy” is also a “ H0rr0r.”..,.
0.A.R.0. : “Hospitality of Mac.” useless to Bulletin....
J.C.P. : “Odd Hours of Dyspepsia” very dreary....
Karl O. : " Merely Players ” too obviously a yarn—nob
sufficiently well written to carry improbability and blue
lights....M.L. : Don’t fancy "Chrysalis’’....Cork Sun:
It, is very beautiful paper, and we paid the penny for
deficient postage quite cheerfully. ...M.D. (Ballarat):
Not a bad anecdote ; might have looked even
better if there had been sufficient stamps on the
letter Gian: Not much in it Barocco : Con-
sidering tale. Have paid 4d. for insufficient postage
Cyprean (sic) Hope: "Dogerel” received... .Sniff:
Inferior love verses. One par. will do Typo
(Kal.): You’ll find all the information in Cpghlan’s
“ Seven = Colbnies” for 1902, pages 658 to 690.,..
Owl-light Her Life” returned to Orson-street, Hay,
May 18.. I.The Wasser : Your hand is too weak for such
a subject.. ..E.H.H.: “Woman” well veiled, but trite.
Prose sketch rather sloppy... .Scimitai our edge is
blunt S.P. :We don’t acknowledge of pars,
and yours were no good, anyhow Wallace Mac. : Some
descriptive power, but not enough in it otherwise
D. D. Macdonald : Too loosely handled R.O.M.j
Material pretty good, but form unsuitable.'. .Julius:
Too explosive and spluttery ... .M.A.F. : Graceful enough
but hasn’t any backbone of interest.... Phil D. : Too
stiff and technical... .Durdles : Too long and heavy....
Moolpa : Better than much that comes our way, but not
good enough.,-. Juno : (1) Yes, the Govt. can resume any
land if Parliament wishes to do so ; there is really no such
thing as absolute property inland; (2) sporting contri-
butor may supply later 0n....G.A.P. : Your writing is
admirable; your matter poor....Tas. : Please don’t call
the Australian Senate'an “upper house”; that’s an
obscene political term to apply to a live democratic
chamber.. ..Riverina : “Drover” good.; will consider
other Crumples : Verse very uneven, and metre all
over the shop. ..W.E.: On too familiar lines.... Bandar ;
Verse is graceful enough, but it trips along such well-
worn tracks.. Clavering T. : Stringing rhymed phrases
together doesn’t necessarily make poetry.,. .John T. M. :
Yes, you are right. The N.S.W. Licensing Act forbids
sale of intoxicating liquors to any Australian aboriginal.
E. (M.L.) : He’s been executed J.D. : Excellent
sentiments in not so excellent verse... .Hix. : The A.N.A.
has only sufficient spunk to make it a live burial club
Corio : We’re against imports all the time—of manu-
factures, of loans, or of governors. ...'.Fiddle : Same old
bad hubby, angel-wife, insidious No. 3, and salvation at
last moment....W.O’D. : “Only 20 pages long.” Well,
it could have been 20 pages shorter with advantage....
Minnie 0. : You have probably received it back by this
time Dan W. : Capitally conceived, but feebly exe-
cuted llight-oh : But it’s all wrong-oh I Lubin :
Begins in the middle and ends nowhere P.J. (Q.):
What you intend for the climax lias “ no visible means of
support.”....lbis : For heaven’s sake, give it up. You
recall Drvden’s lines :
Others to some faint meaning make pretence,
But Shadweli never deviates into sense.
....Grant Ilervey : That clergyman who objected to
Tub Bulletin being kept at the School of Arts was
iin pmlssfirv of Ours ; we hove a stcnd i n<r offer
of a year’s free subscription to any person who will have
Thi Bullbtin boycotted by any public institution (except
a poor-house) where one copy does for 100 people
Philgarlic : Verse lacks grace... ..J.A.M.O. : Will pass
your letter on to the poets, but they are a sordid
crowd in matters of that sort Unsuitable—X.X.X. and
Glenara Dens: There is, in N.S.W. ; inquire of the
Dental Board T. Pocca : None up to publication mark ;
sorry for so much wasted effort.. ..G.K. : It’s far too
small a dog to kick, at L.M. : Read enough to gauge
its quality ; you don’t need to eat a whole sheep to find
out that the mutton is bad.. .Neddie : Widow yarn may be
“ true as Gospel,” but we printed it as a lie months ago.
....J.W.F. : Best get “ A Policy for the Commonwealth,’
published from this office D. : We hate parodies
J.F.: So the “tired” policeman in a large scattered
country district missed twelve houses in all, and 26 people
are thus disfranchised. Are these 26 people too tired to
go and put themselves on the roll 1 Tub Bulletin some-
times thinks that nobody should be on the roll if he or
she is too tired to get on by personal application.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
T.A.S. : Drawings show good promise, but lot of practice
needed yet....H. Henry: One will serve for a suDject.
Unsuitable—W.G.S., C.P.R., Occy, H.G A. Mars:
None will serve even as a suggestion Kid : No hope.
A Maorilander of 70 years married a
second time the other day. As he was receiving
congratulations on the platform, prior to depart-
ing on the honeymoon tnp, the train moved off
with the bride, and left him vainly shouting
“Stop! Wait a minute?” Then the youthful
bridegroom hired a coach, and drove furiously by
a short-cut in the hope of intercepting the train
at a station ahead. Failing in this (it wasn’t
a Bent train), he hired a bicycle and completed the
journey, arriving at the wedding retreat the day
after his bride.
“ Engineer ” writes :
I used to think tbc tales about the fearsome state of
the Victorian railways and engines were exaggerated,
but I have altered my opinion. Taking a short-cut
recently, I walked for about a mile along a suburban line
with a heavy traffic of its own, and with three country
lines branching from it. Happening to kick against a
loose bolt, I observed the track carefully. I found
many dog-spikes (which hold the rails to the sleepers)
with their heads off. Each fish-plate has four bolts, with
check-nuts; dozens of these bolts I found loose (and,
therefore, useless); some plates had three out of the four
bolts loose. Two I unscrewed and replaced with my
fingers. Many dog-spikes were not hard up against the
rails. Rails were often fin. apart at ends. The sleepers
were so rotted they should nearly all have been replaced
months ago. This was on one of the steepest grades on
that line, and—quaint ftnd significant detail —the up-grade
was laid with 601 b. rails, the down with 801 b.
BILL'S ATTITUDL.
Mr. Deakin has been taken to task by the great Irvine
for including Victoria as one of the States approving of
the new Chamberlain policy.
BLUDGEON BILL ( I'rvine) (to handsome stranger):
“ How dare you mention this lady’s name
while she’s under my protection !”
How little they know of New South Wales
who only Sydney know ! Attention having been
drawn last December to .the perilously low state
of the water supply at Broken Hill, the principal
Government engineer in that Department went
up from Sydney, found that there was enough to
last 'till May, and reported that there was no
need to worry or hurry—it was bound to rain
before then. Bound.to rain iqside five months?
Why, out there there’s sometimes only a spatter
and a promise inside five years !
Victorian Lands Minister Taverner has
been “ taking steps ” fQr a long while towards
abolishing the Leongatha Labor Colony—an
institution which, in spite of amateur manage-
ment and many bungles, has relieved thousands
and to-day is actually relieving 200 necessitous
cases by more economical and less pauperising
methods than any other “relief” agency. It
assists the “ stone-broker” without degrading him
and turns him out able to earn a living in any of
the “great natural industries.” Taverner has
seemingly been got at by land speculators or
hungry acre-eaters who want the Leongatha block.
“Jaybell” spreads himself:
Passing down Queen-street not long since I stood for a
moment to view the stock-in-trade of a curb-stone toy
merchant, who dangled a very ingeniously-contrived
monkey at the end of a piece of elastic. The man’s face,
was expressive of one given to much brooding over
worldly misfortune—just as Henry Parkes may have
looked what time he greened the sportive simian and
ochred its whittled stick for the bread of life. While I
stood, two fatted bookmakers bore down upon the scene,
and stood to scoff. The cream of their remarks was, in
effect, that the State should lay violent hands upon such
a lazy beggar and make him work. Then I thought of
the hours and deft fingers it .took to make the little
stock-in-trade of childhood’s penny-wonders. Likewise,
I tried to call to mind the honest toil, or effort, or
avocation, or whatever you like to call it, of the ordinary,
illiterate, cheating, prevaricating, mean-spirited, close-
fisted, obscene bookmaker, with his swindle and his
cheap note-book and his stump of pencil. The ran-
sacking hurt my brain, and, as I moved on, I marvelled
why an all-seeing Providence hasn’t made provision for
a special annual tornado, to sweep the said bookie and
his pocketful of sinful memoranda away to the back of
where his awful voice would come handy to wail with,
and his big shop-teeth could do some good, useful
gnashing. There is an awful amount of gnashing which
should be done, but which hasn’t vet been attended to.


‘'Sir Edmund, whose remarks were fre-'
quently and heartily applauded, affirmed -
that the establishment of a club for ladies,
of a purely social nature, was a step in the
right direction. Clubs had the effect of
making men more aitreoablo and more
sociable, and he thought tlmt the same
rule tnicht nppli to < Tub- lot the other
“ And I can easily conceive that, as a
great mpral danger to the future well-
being of our young Australian Common-
wealth, the enactment or administration
of our Custom laws may tend to abolish a
keen sense of moral rectitude and self-
respect in the public conscience by putting
in the pillory of official condemnation men
who iu thought and purpose would scorn
to do anything mean, not to say fraudulent,
though they may be held responsible for
a mere technical offence."—Rev. Dr. Mar
_shall« sermon.
. "Senator Reid's seat continues to be a
-ore subject of speculation throughout the
Common wealth."
xb.
”". bon ore r t> ot
Tb® PICK 1 wa® * M* n “-d *>?
-=s**? . n t on ce.*> u , aUO n
-f 3
= .ofo S urC^ WroU " S
;
k
°*t *6/ e /0*
Of
l it *
C 5T0538T.:
T " T . HEjI ' T caußaftts^
■* °‘ SC * ai - T * a “
▼
■'* c '°
V x “//
✓V5*^ v
«/s2Si*
Mr. Edward Langton, presiaect. sar*
•” of tie PobUe librmn
Trustees ire m tavor of opening th»
Librarr on Sudan The Trustees are
taltioi; steps to diseecrase the idlers who
tn iha habit ot sleeping aw*} their
time in the kan —Prrv» tv« J
' Ad appeal .« ™>.*de to the ecpporters of
the National C-fiinf Ref one League to
forward a subscripfoa rewards the funds
of the league- If if eoulri set 200 at £5
each. 200 at £2 e*eh. 350 at £1 each. 400 at
10-- each. 500 at 5j each n would enable
us to do the above.—A C PalmEK Presi-
dent C’.niens Reforar. League.
<±oo&
knock fßrs cW*N
iS «3\w*i>|=» open To dnej while ‘
dlecpi.rux diccornmcKicjtion vw
<sre ojfc. rm £ is so suFknor?
OCD Kjaß Bsafn(A?PO?XA.-" Now little
ciißste. you pat £2.075 is the *W
anc HI give won a Vessea ia fru-
rainy"
VICTT Frugality . weer n NM >l
mister
The risks which hsre beee ran m
trusting to-the police caarasstng for the
Vtcionaa sectio* of the Fedenu roil were
iUuscraiesl by <ui dnaouacenseat wade by
&r VT-Jltasi Lyne last erasing that a
policetaas had written a> ta» Chief
hlecteml OSes stating that he had a list’
of ICVV Victorian Federal elector*, which
he had failed to send in in coaseqaeace of
aa diaasa. -Argn
A Lame Excess.
m(aK X v ree«tagl ie-
stance *f the law's delay f* Bed «*»
to them' Can lha law da aayehin'
e!aa bet delay whea it s get » »or*
toe f *
VICTORIANA.


T HE OFFENSIVE TEETOTAL PERSON
Wanted-an anti-prohibition league to com
pel some teetotallers to “ take a UrtU f
their neighbors’sake” httle f ° r
*ede r '' rv-
*TTiRATI°N
°°T
*-v
V
\*
H
<!
f-'JFsisrtrs
w »°'d be deSS'-n n° n
«Rrf TT “ JoEY: ‘‘ Now ’ 1 say
rT’ an<l 1 Say ‘ Reform,
and I keep on saying ‘jU
form, but I don’t sej toZ
get a perch.”
1 Udn't^LPj o GeORg S : “ Wonrf
•« i». bSS’ifa 1 *“■
==-=- 7 Job w Puli it along.” U ****»»>«
“ Some persona have used the occasion of our
passing difficulties to apeak in grossly exag-
gerated terms of the state of our finanoes,and
hare thus (whether they intended this result or
Mt) depreciated the credit of the State. It is,
accordingly, with great pleasure that I find
lay seif able to announce that the financial poei-
tion ef the State is thoroughly sound.”’
. —John See to N.S.W. Parliament. *
The Australian Stock Exchanges are taking
tin the English idea af a stockbrokers’ walk-
ing match.
J&smov (to panting party): “ Heart up, Jones—
I eoe a ptth 1 ”
Jon as (groaning): “ It'll be dry before we get
thare —Johson’s on ahead 1 "
Tdsv Person . “ That child is growing too quickly.
You must keep it off that milk , but let it
have lots of Governor brand gin.”
A GENERAL LOOK AT THINGS.


A. SAUNDERS, SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER.
II
s
/
s
✓
M
A. SaUNDEBS. r^T _T, a
High Grade Ladies’ Bolid Silver LEVEito,
Full Jewelled, f-plate,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, and £4 10s,
In Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6 10s, £7 10s, £8 10s,
10 guineas, £l2 10s, £l5, and £2O.
Guaranteed 3,4, 5, and 6 years.
A. SAUNDERS.
Three-bar Gold Buckle BROOCH, 20s,
A. SAUNDERS.
Two-bar Floral, with Diamond, Blue, or Red
Stone, BROOCH, 22s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Twist Bar, with Bow and Heart, Gold BROOCH,
6s 6d ; with Amethyst Heart, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDtiRS.
Carved Gold BROOCH, with Opal Centre, 20s.
m
Ladies’ Curb CHATN/N
Gold Snap Padlock, 25s,
30s, 85s, £2 5s, £3 ; 15ct.,
£210s, £3, £4, £4 10s, £5,
£6, £7 10s, £8, £10.
10s extra
for
Key Padlock.
All With Safety Chain.
Diamond BRACELET, IB carat Gold, Three Pure Double-cut Diamonds,
with Safety Chain, £5 ; Diamond and Two Rubies, £4.
Peace-offering Bird Dub BROOCHES, with Enamelled Olive Leaf,
17b 6d ; 15 carat Gold, 25u.
A. SAUNDERS _ M
Very Pretty Gold BRACELET, Diamond, Red, or Blue Stones,
£2 10s ; 15ct. Gold, £4, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Bamboo Gold BRACELETS. All tbe Styles. Prices according
to width. 255, 80s, £2, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s ; 15ct. Gold,
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Band Name BRACELET, in Three Sizes, 255, 80s, as
above, and 40s wider ; Isct Gold, £3, £8 10s, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Two Heart Amethyst and Love Knot
BROOCH, 20s.
_J5Lq_
Hr®
A. SAUNDERS.
15ot. Two Bar Pure Diamond, Double Cut.
BROOCH, £2 ; with Ruby, 85s,
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Diamond Gut Amethyst
BROUGH, 20s.
LrSSBIL
e*
A. SAUNDERS.
Large Bi*e Three Bar Amethyst BROOCH,
25' » 15 Caiat Gold, Amethyst, 455.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Pearl Set Twin Love Birds,
BROOCH, Red Stone Centre, 17s 6d.
II
A. SAUNDERS.
loot Gold Two Bar Opal and Four Diamond
BROOCH, &'i 10s. Yery Effective.
Sil-
ver,
£1
Gold
M,
A. SAUNDERS.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed. Silver Hunting Keyless
25b, 80s, £2, £2 10s. £3. Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3, £4
£5: Superior Quality, £6, £7, £8, £10.
ALL GUARANTEED.
2»
FULL S!2^
A. SAUNDERS.
Three Bar Solid Gold Pearl and Red Stone Scroll
BROOCH, 21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Battleaxe and Shield BROOCH, Very Neat and
Effective, Pearl Set with Gem, 20s.
A. SACNDERS. -
Gold Mounted Tusk BROOCH, Chain and Bell,
15s 6d. Very Effective.
£3los.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUSHMEN AND MINERS’
SPECIAL MADE ENGLISH
LEVERS, Full C*p, Hand Finished, Extra
Jewelled Works, Perfect Timekeeper, -with
Pure Silver Cases, Dust and Water Tight, £3
10s.
Extra Quality, with Chronometer Balance,
£4 10s, £5, £5 10s, £O, £7, £8 ; •
Solid Gold, £lO, £l5, £2O.
A written certificate for 3,4, and s.years.
Try one ; you will not regret it.
Keyless,
Free-
trade
Prices.
r\ M /
r 6o
$
A. SATJNT)ERB.
Strong Reliable WATERBURY WATCHES.
Hong Wind, 8s Bd ;
New Short Wind, IQs';
New Model. G., 18s 6d;
Extra Quality, j-plate, 18s 6d and £l.
Silver, 85s ;
Gold, £2 15s.
The reputation of these Watches is a sufficient
guarantee of the reliability.
.No
Ad-
vance.
20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Unrivalled non-magnet LEVER.
Perfect Timekeeper, Screw Cass,
dust and water tight, ‘2os.
Solid Silver, 85s ; Double Case, £2.
A Written Guarantee' Given with Ea6h
Watch. ; >
20s.
Black or
Nickel,
£3 10s,
X
“FLY-BACK CIIRONOJdETERS. '•* .
Fly-back only. In Solid Nickel or Blaok,.
Extra duality, £2, £2 10b ; same as above, £3 10s ;
Split Seconds, £8 10s. Pure Solid'"Silver, as above,
£5, £6, £7, £B, add £10,; Solid Gold, £l5, £2O, £25,.
and £3O.
A written certificate for 2,3, 4,5, and 6 Tears.
TRY ONE.
Silver,
£5.
Solid
Silver,
£2 10s
A. SAUNDEBS. j
. ' WALTHAM LEVEES. .
We are Direct Buyers.
Pure Solid Silver Hunting Cases, Extra
Quality Movements,
£2 10s, £3, £3*l Os, £4, and £5;
Gold Patent Oases, Walt hams, £4 4s, £5 5s
Solid' Gold, £ 7 10s, £lO, £l2 10a,
£l5, £2O, and £25.
3,4, 5, and 6 Years’ Guarantee.
Gold
Cased,
£4 4s-
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Goal BAND
17s 6d ;
Three Opals, 22s 6d ;
15ct. Gold. 30s ;
Three Opals, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Pure Double
Cut Diamond,
£2 10s, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold, Three Red
or Blue stones,
Double Cut, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Band RINGS.
9ct. Solid Gold, 12s 6d,
15s ; 15ct. Gold.
20s, 255; 18ct. Gold 255,
30s, 85s, £2.
Any name free.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold,* Pure Double
Cut Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires,
£3 10s £4, £4 10s ; .
Five Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Solid Gold, Pure
Double Cut Diamond,
Puie Rubies
or Sapphire, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold, Two Hearts,
Diamond and Ruby,
35s ;
Two Diamonds, £2 ss.
Latest Style.
m
m
Gold Mizpah
CHAEM,
48 6d.
Pearl Cluster
Heart, 15s 6d ;
■with Four
Diamond, Euby,
or Sapphire, 255.
15ot. Gold Heart,
Double Cut
Diamond. 80s, 40a;
Ruby or Sapphire,
258.
Gold Envelope
CHARM, 12s 6d ;
name free, with slip
inside, 15s 6d.
Good Friendship
Gold CHARM,
10s 6d ; with Erin-
Go-Bragh, 10s 6d.
Gold Amethyst and
. Pearl Heart
CHARM. 10s 6d ;
larger, 15s and 20s.
Gent.'s Solid Gold Front STUDS, 8s 6d, 5s 6d, 7s 6d each.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hand-Made WED DINOr RINGS and KEEPERS,
9ct. Sjlid Gold, 5s Gd, 7s 6d, 10s Gd each ;
15ct. Gold, 15s ; Extra Heavy, 25s ; 18et. Gold, 20s ;
Extra Heavy, 30s, 355, 40s.
Quality of Gold and Finish First Class.
A. SAUNDERS.
Signet Plain RING, 9ct. Gold,
20s, 255; 15ot. Gold, 30s, 35s ; ’
18ct. Gold, £2, £2 10s.
Hand-Made Solid Gold MUFFS
9£t. Solid Gold, £3, £3 10s, £4 ;
Isct. Gold, £4 10s, £5. £6, £6 10s,
to £lO. Price According to
ThioknesH and Quality of Gold.
Photo Pendants
New Gold Photo. CHARMS
9 ot. 10s 6d, 15s, 20s ;
loot., 15s6d, 255, 30s, 40s.
Gent.’s9ct. Solid Gold Amethyst
RING, 25s ;
15ct. Solid Gold, £2, £2 10s,
9ot. Solid Gold Opal LINKS,
80s ; 15ot. Gold,” £2 10a,
Extra Strong’.
9ct. Gold Heart LINKS, 12s
6d';Tsct. Gold, 255.
Beautifully Chased 9ct. Gold
Large .Size Sleeve LINKS,
22s 6d; Plain, 21s; or with
initials nicely chased, 22s 6d ;
15ct. Gold £2 ;
Silver, 4s 6d.
ISct. Gold Buckle, Diamond
and Two Rubies or
Sapphires, £2 10s ;
Three Diamonds, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
Two Diamond Sparks
and Red Stone,
15ct. Gold, 80s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold,
Four Diamonds,
with Three Rubies,
Sapphires, or Opals,
£8 10s, £4 10s, £5, £6.
Price to Size of
Diamonds.'
lftot. Solid Gold
Two Hearts,
Opals, Three Pure
Double Cut
Diamonds, £4los.
'Band RINGS,
with Name,
9ct.. Solid Gold,
12s 6d, 15s;
15ct. Gold, 20s, 25s ;
18ot.Gold v 25s, 80s,
355, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Half Hoop,
Five Double Cut
Diamonds, RING, £5;
Larger Diamonds,
" £6, £7 ids, £B,. £lO,
£13,£20.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold; Pearls and
Turquoise, 15s;
Other Styles, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS-
-'Sot. Solid Gold,
Diamond arid Tw
mbies or Sapphires.
£2 10s:
Phree Diamonds, w.
SAUNDERS,
t. Gold Double
tuckle. Us ®d;
Set. Gold, 30s;
iSct. Gold, £2-
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER AND SILVERSMITH,
815 AND 817 GEORGE-STREET
/(NEARLY OPPOSITEN
VBAII/WAY STATION;?
SYDNEY.


TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.
PRIVATEERING ENTERPRISE.
“Now, what is the principle upon which the commercial activity of that marvellous people depends. It is
that of leaving the people of the United Kingdom in their varied enterprises as free from the interference of law
and regulation as possible.”— Dry-Dog Reid to interviewer.
HUMBLE FREETRADER (discovered by eminent and expostulating ditto in eminent and expostu-
lating ditto's jewel chamber): "Now, sir, don’t be unreasonable, I pray of you.
Surely you wouldn’t go for to hamper our young industry wif the interferences of law
and regulations!”
“ E.”: I know a man and wife who have not
paid any rent for six years, barring an occasional deposit
of 2s. 6d. or ss. on taking a house. They haven’t nearly
enough furniture to make it worth while putting a bailiff
in, and if that little is seized—which happens very rarely
—they just stay on. It takes at least three weeks, after
the hopelessness of the case is recognised, to get such a
tenant out, and then he generally gets square prior to
his departure by tearing the paper and breaking the
mantelpiece. The worst house I ever went through was
that one in Balmain in which a portion of Lane’s first
New Australia contingent had camped prior to their
sailing for Paraguay. It took close on six weeks’ rent to
repair damages and clean up—especially clean up. I have
often wondered since if Cosme smells at all like that
house.
» * * *
A correspondent tella of a comparatively new
swindle :—Witnessed a pathetic incident to-day. A blind
organ-grinder’s machine broke down with a wild whirring
note as he was finishing " Love’s Serenade” in front of a
suburban hotel. The landlord rushed out to see whose
soul had just been lost, and 17 men, eight women, and
44 children collected before the last wild cry had died
away. Two men offered to fix the machine up. The
blind man was still frantically turning the handle while
his little girl was trying to stop him, saying it was no
use. The two men started to overhaul the machine
while the crowd increased. Rumor spread it round that
a drunken man had wrecked the machine, the sole sup-
port of the blind man and 14 kids. The women turned
up their eyes, and said, “What a sheemel” The two
experts, whose efforts were breathlessly watched by the
crowd, at last pronounced the machine incapable
of further torture. A pin which connected the
revolving disc with the handle had been lost —had fallen
into the bowels of the machine probably ; and it was all
up with it until another pin was fitted in its place. At
this juncture a forceful-looking man with a bleary eye
proposed a collection and made a short speech picturing
the 14 youngsters starving at home. He wasted no time,
gs the crowd showed an inclination to dodge down a side
street or slip into the adjacent pub.. The collector fol-
lowed them into the pub. and levied on all, the land-
lord contributing a shilling “as it was his pub. the
machine shied at.” Finally the forceful man presented
the organ-grinder with 6s. 3d., and that worthy wiped
his sightless eyes and said “ Gawdblessyer ” 17 times.
Then he left. Three minutes afterwards a cynic arrived
add, addressing the few who were still lounging about,
said, “ Collecting for a horgan-grinder here ? ’’ Somebody
nodded. “Fourth collection I know of to-day,” said the
cynic ; “ he takes the screw out of his machine and puts
ft in his pocket. Then the other bloke takes the hat
round.”
A choice bargain was secured by the canny
committee of Dunedin (M.L.) Athenaeum lately, when
a lot of books were sold at brown paper prices. They
got a complete set of Voltaire’s works in French for 3d.
a vol.—a very ancient edition, published between 1784
and 1790. The books for many years adorned the shelves
of an old resident of Dunedin, who once possessed a ven
fine library.
* * * •
Letter received by a bush storekeeper:—
Deer sir i woad lik you to send me Herwith on thirsd\
a few thins by the Fiream kart as dan cant cum in thiV
wek for Larg loves 12 pouns w shuger 1 tin bakeii,
powder 20 pouns flour have you enny flsick good foi
a soar nelly has got a absest or Ulster dam baa hoping
missis is well as this leves me dan will bring a nuther
lode of spuds nex wek n b don forget medsin.
• * • •
The proprietors of the “ Commercial” and th.
“ True Blue ’’ were vicious, and reviled each other ; con
sequently the bagmen who journeyed that way, canvass
ing for whisky orders, could only do business with the
house where they stayed. One wilv French bagman got
over the difficulty. He arrived 1 . the 6.15 p.m. train,
drove to the “ Commercial,” ordered a room, and left hi 6
portmanteau. He hastened to the “ True Blue,” ordered
a room, left his grea< coat and umbrella, and went in to
dinner. He had a lignc meal and a bottle of claret. Half,
way through, he got up from the table hurriedly, and
explained to the waiter an urgent telegram had to be sent
off immediately, and fled to the “ Commercial." There
he had another light dinner and a bottle of claret. He
slept at the “ True Blue,” and came down sharp to break-
fast. Ten minutes later he was explaining at the “ Com-
mercial ” about an all-night card party at a friend's house.
He managed a second light breakfast of a grilled ohop
and a cup of coffee. Also, he booked an order for liquor
from each hotel, and left, over-full of provisions, but
happy.
* * * *
A note concerning pearls, from the wild North-
West : “ The buyers carefully sort the gems into classes
and buy them by the ounce, or, in case of pearls over
lOgrs., by the grain—No. 1, No. 2, barrocs (pearls of good
lustre but of bad shape), dummies (discolored), and blis-
ters. Yellows are kept separate from the whites, and
are classed in the same way. Orientals prefer the
yellows; Europe takes nearly all the wb'ies, though
many pass through India first. The Indian jarket has a
very large say indeed in the prices, which, locally, fluc-
tuate a lot. No. l’s, white, bring here from £2O to £l4O
per oz. ; same in yellows, from £lO to £4O. The
seed pearls so much used in middle-class jewel-
lery can be had down to about 30s. per oz.;
discolored pearls down to 6s. But there are dis-
colored pearls which are very rare and valuable
‘barred’pearls, ‘tipped’ pearls (a few straw-colored
with pink tips), a rare black one, and a rarer all-pink.
They run in all shapes, too —cones, buttons, pears, ovals,
and clusters. * Blisters,’ though included in the list of
classes, are not true pearls, but are the pearly excres-
ences inside the shell. Sometimes, however, when the
skin of a ‘ blister ’ is dissolved a pearl is found within.
Of the ‘ dummies ’ a good many of the cheaper ones go
East, where they are ground up and used asmedioine.
• * * *
Decided in the Adelaide local court that a land-
owner can recover from his lessee the full value of all
limestone taken out of the land, even though the farmer
only received a royalty of 3d. a yard. Witnesses showed
that all excavations had been filled up, and that the land
was probably better for farming than before, but the
plaintiff pressed forand recovered £99 from the defendant,
who had only received £3O altogether. The court
“ regretted ” having to give the decision.
• * * *
It is absolutely necessary that something should
be done to reverse that infamous decision given by a
Sydney magistrate, to the effect that the time-payment
furniture man, or the fiend with the bill of sale, may,
when one instalment is overdue, break into a house in
the absence of the householder and carry off everything.
The results of that decision, which legalises burglary and
lends the authority of the law to midnight breaking and
entry, are most disastrous. Now with a certain infamous
class of money-lender life is one long struggle to persuade
the borrower to fall in arrear with his last or second last
payment. When the debt is nearly paid, the agent never
calls for the regular weekly instalment. If it is taken
round to the office, the shark’s clerk almost implores
the debtor “ not to pay unless he is quite cer-
tain hs can spare the money.” He is assured that
there is no hurry, that it doesn’t matter even if the
payment does fall in arrear, and so on. And if he can be
persuaded to fall in arrear, half-a-dozen minor sharks,
with vans, burst in the first time the house is left un-
guarded, and everything goes—for, perhaps, a balance of
10s. overdue. The tenant returns to find a broken door
and utter ruin. The new legalised burglary system gives
the debtor no chance to tender the money. He can’t
find out where his furniture has gone to. When he does
hear about it he learns that perhaps £4O worth of goods
were sold at auction (presumably to the shark’s agent),
and only realised a few shillings. Unless the legal deci-
sion which authorises all this is rescinded Sydney will
have a tragedy on its hands one of these days—and ia
dead shark.
* * * *
A White Australia ! Stated in the Westralian
Arbitration Court recently that the cabinet-making
industry found employment for 200 Chinese and only 50
European tradesmen.
Possibly the biggest price paid for any agri-
cultural land in the Commonwealth is the £5 per acre
charged for a season’s “ cropping" of the comparatively
•mall patch of rich black volcanic potato-land in the S.E.
of S.A. The period for which the land is held varies with
the weather, but it never goes over about nine months—
often it is much shorter. It there isn’t any “ blister,” or
" black spot,” or other potato trouble around the grower
may dig 14 tons to the acre. Five pounds for, say, seven
months’ use—and the fool State sold the freehold of it
for 12s. fid. an acre 1
• • * *
The question of converting the debts of the
States into a Federal debt, with all-round advantage to
the States, appears to have suggested a scheme for the
conversion of the debts on the R.O. churches of N.S.W.
into a N.S.W. Holy Roman liability. The churches are
almost all in debt, many of them paying as high as 10 per
cent; on the other hand, wealthy R.O’s., ladies in
particular, are only drawing 8 or 4 per cent, on deposits
in hanks. Between these two rates there is plenty of sea
room for a competent financier to construct a financial
concern which will give the R.C. lady 5 per cent., and
reduce the interest bill of the holy edifice to 6 per cent.
• • • •
“Chassela3”: The imports of agricultural im-
plements and machinery into Victoria increased from
£296,964 in 1899 to £473,766 in 1902. The lowering of the
tariff by the Australian Parliament Is having a disastrous
effect on Vic. manufactures. In all farming districts you
may see American implements at work ; a Freetrade
English machine is unknown. Australian makers are
very poorly represented. Out of 60 ploughs sold in
newly-settled country in S.W. Vic. 46 were of American
make, and the same thing applies to all implements and
tools used on the farms. ’Murkan firms sold all machinery
on extra good terms, and the 8 per cent, interest charged
will hang like a mill-stone around Vic. farmers’ necks for
vears.
• * ♦ •
There’s “business, robbery, ete.,” in the chaff
trade, too. With fowl-feed at a decent price, it pays to
knock out the half-formed grain ; a machine has been
contrived for the purpose. The now almost-universal
“sheaving" of hay makes the operation simple. Then
there’s the watering. The disgusted farmer, who has
iust run his waggon-load of hay over the weighbridge
dry, and has been bullied if a shower has fallen on ft,
finds that the hose is turned on it all the time it is being
thrown into the cutting mill; and often it gets a second
dose as it is going down to the cutters. Even after that
the chaff-buyer has to keep his eyes open or hs will be
fold “ short” tons—2ooolb. instead of 22401 b.
The sort of letter which N.S,W.
Advances to Settlers Board reoeiveS when
it won’t advance the nation’s money on bad
security : “ Sirs,—Permit me to return my most
sincere thanks for the attention given to my
letter asking you to increase the amount of
my loan. I regret to have troubled you during
the festive season, and that you could not see
your way clear to make the advance. Had
it been a squatter who had asked for a cool
thousand, he would, no doubt, have got it with-
out trouble. I hope you will never want a loaf,
and seeing the well-greased billets you hold,
I have no doubt you never will. But I hope
when you cross the border line your tongues
will hang out a yard to all eternity. With
the season’s compliments, I am, yours
A recent survey of a Southern Vic. estate out
up for closer settlement showed a clear gain of from
9to 12 acres on every section of land. It would be inter-
esting to know how many acres of land the old surveys
have robbed from the State. Syndicates buying big
estates always count on these pickings, and the State
should find out where it comes in before the amended
titles are issued.
• * • *
“J.F.D. A man came round our back
lane yesterday hawking rabbits. He was offering them
in exchange for bottles, old rags, and scrap iron. I
looked into his van, where a dozen “bunnies" were
smothered up with a collection of pickle bottles, old
dresses, and remains of bedsteads. The nice, fresh
“ wile rabbi’.”
• * • *
Through absorption of moisture, dry-country
wool sometimes gains as much as 201 b. per bale (say 4 per
cent.) after being landed in Sydney stores. There is in-
weight and out-weight; most times the grower is paid
on the in-weight, and sometimes he kicks in conse-
quence. There is the same absorption in connection
with wheat grown in dry districts ; but there is a better
chance for the middleman to work a small swindle there,
because he pays the farmer on the weight at the local
railway siding, while he sells on the seaboard weight—
when every bag is a couple of pounds heavier.
Vio. cockies, to evade income-tax, put wages
for all their sons against income. Of course the wages
(so-called) are never passed over to the boys. Half-a-
crown once or twice a year to spend at the local show or
races is the extent of the old man’s expenditure. Writer
knows well-to-do cockies, with several sons, who have
never paid a penny income-tax for years by this ruse.
Some day a cookie’s son will sue for these wages, and let
loose the dogs of law on the old man.
* * * *
The Bulletin receives a circular, issued, naked
and unashamed, by a godly firm, which tells the butcher
how he can be a larger thief than usual. The secret lies
in a sausage machine, which has these virtues (quota-
tions are from the godly firm’s circular)
“ You can work in 60 per cent, more water. We have
seen a butcher take 1401 b. meat, and, by adding water
when cutting, when smoked and boiled he bad 1151 b. of
Wieners, 751 b. of Frankfurters, and 651 b. of ham sausage.
This is 1151 b. clear profit. At-3d. per lb., they would
make 28s. 9d. clear profit on the extra water, without the
profit on the balance. The knives go through the meat
so quick that they cut it in a doughy condition,
which absorbs so much more water. In another case, we
have seen 301 b. of water worked in 401 b. of meat. A
butcher can make a great deal more money by making
his own sausage. If you buy it you will pay all the
profit to the manufacturer. A cutter would make
you considerably more profit in a year from the extra
water it will work in."
And, then, after giving more information about the
profit the butcher can make by adding just a little more
water to the sausage, and selling water as sausage
without being found out, this fool firm puts its customers
away by printing a list of the people who are using the
swindle machine.
• * * *
The erstwhile smellful buildings known as
“ Kidman’s,” in Market-street, Sydney, have been “done
up ” and are now known as “ York Buildings,” by way of
misguided compliment to the Dook. The pile was erected
by the late Charles Kidman out of the building material
of the old Sydney Hospital—the Rum Hospital—which
was erected early in the reign of Governor Macquarie
and was demolished in 1879.
* * * *
“ A.” : Does the Commonwealth tariff impose a
duty on imported coffins? Have been informed that
elegant coffins are imported in “nests” and that the
inner one is usually Jfilled with dried apples or other
marketable com-modity.
* * * »
One large Melbourne firm contributed 10
guineas to the “ loyalist ” fund for blackleg drivers ; also
it closed its establishment at five ipstead of six to suit
the convenience of the Railway Department. At the end
of the week it docked its employees for the hour each
evening—a number of girls receiving the munificent
salary of 2s. 6d. per week were cut down to 2s. 3Jd. 1!
And it was a “loyal” and Christian firm, after Bent’s
own heart. What a number of steals, meannesses, and
cadgings- of •an - odd-copper-out-of-a-blind-man’s-hat are
covered by the word “ loyalty ” 1
* * * *|
“B. Rid ”: Mention of rams and German
sausage (“ Ed.” 8., 16/5/’O3), reminds me of a butcher in
a small N.S.W. inland town who had purchased a line of
aged rams. Being in forward condition he hung the
carcases in the shop. One day a specially big one was on
show. A cocky came along. “ Fine sheep that; where
did you get ’em ? ” “Oh ! one of Mr. So-and-So’s cross-
bred wethers,” unblushingly answered the cleaver-man.
“ By Jove ! he must be pretty good then, and I like a bit
of good mutton, too. I’ll take the lot.” “Right you
are, old man. I know you’ll like it I’’ Next day an
infuriated cocky and three-parts of a ram’s carcase filled
the shop, but the butcher fled when he saw them coming.
The Maoriland “patriotic” guilds, which
were formed to plant violets and dandelions on the
graves of “our heroes” in S’Africa, are at their
last gasp ; some of them are only kept going now
by that last resort of the cadger, the bazaar am
art union. The patriot doesn’t part with t
shilling any longer unless he can get a pincus!
or a picture for it.
Sydney D.T. wails dolefully that the
“ freetrade” railway rate for newspapers is higher
than the rate for milk. If the Herald made that
complaint it would be reasonable; where milk
goes for a halfpenny, milk-and-water should surely
pass for a farthing. As regards the Telegraph
the real question is : “ What’s the rate fm
venomous reptiles?”
Every dog will have his day,
And life its ups and downs ;
The face may wear a smile to-day,
To-morrow perhaps a frown.
When things run smooth we little guess
What we may yet endure,
As coughs and colds —’tis then we bless
' Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It dm as away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Business, Robbery, etc.
THE THIEVING GOD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There is a store-house great and strong
That mortal eyes may never see ;
And safe it is, and doth belong
To some old god who’s miserly—
Who robs us mortals that he may
Make sure against a rainy day;
And many imps, right scurvy pimps,
Are thieving in his pay.
No other way may I explain
Why Jones from debt is never free,
Why, every time I “call again,”
He tells the same old yarn to me :
A cheque is coming—thus the tale—
To-morrow week he will not fail;
He said ’twas rum it did not come
This morning by the mail.
Now Jones is not the only one
Expecting what he does not get,
And I am not the only dun
Who calls for gold and finds regret.
And so I say some miserly
Old god is robbing Jones and me—
For Jones would pay the very day
That this cheque came, you see 1
There is a store-house great and strong
That mortal eyes may never see,
And safe it is, and doth belong
To some old god who’s miserly.
Oh, his dark vaults contain a pack
Of stolen cheques, and, too, a stack
Of pilfered gold—the wealth untold
All hopeful debtors lack.
H. A. CONANT.
TO A RELIC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
TCx stand, old tub, beside the race, your staves are
v arped and worn,
Yet in their rusty hoops’ embrace what ardent hopes were
born 1
The hopes we knew when Fortune strayed about the Flat
so long,
When rollers creaked and paddles swayed attuned to
joyous song :
Of what you held, tales yet are told ; when rocked by
eager hands
The yellow wavelets lapped the gold upon the shelving
sands ;
When nuggets decked that mimic strand, and ranges rang
with glee,
Clear loomed the homes our hopes had planned for brides
beyond the sea.
Our hopes now mostly drink-wards trend, and that’s the
solemn truth;
We’ll make of you a fire, old friend of golden, wasted
youth !
Perchance old Fortune left behind some gold in hidden
chinks,
And in your ashes we may find enough to pay for drinks.
vie.
FRANT BELLMAN.
The Difference
(FOR THE BULLETIN)
J®)ricJegroom pledging heart and hand
To fku bouls acknowledged queers ;
ker Ikal future kolds
M o new love to come
befweer\
®nlu| dread [he shadow,
pa=.r j
Pear Ihe lover fhaf
i. hab beerv
lifting' wistful e^es,
Unto fcues ber\f tenderly
,| I . , -J ' n -
yrouble not it once
Ke loved
©frier* CIS he now
loves tkee
not the.
buried past
[pear the woman
that will be
CONSTANCE CLYDE.


WE WILL GIVE CASH TO YOU
for any old Gold Watches, Breast Pins,
Chains, Rings, Lockets, Brooches, Diamonds,
Pearls, Sapphires or Rubies ; in short, any old
Gold Jewellery or Precious Stones, whether
broken or not. We will send you a liberal
money order the same day the goods are re-
ceived. If our .offer is not acceptable your
articles will be returned immediately.
Pack your articles in cotton wadding or tissue
paper, in small box, write our name and address
plainly on package, and send by registered post,
and we hold ourselves responsible. We refer you
to the London Bank of Australia, Ltd., Broken Hill
SHAW & CO., Jewellers,
;Also af London.) BROKEN HILL.
N. B.i—We sell 15ct. Gent’s Gold Alberts (double o:
.ingle) at 7o - per ounce— in *’• -
<3-0 TO HELL,.
IEOLANI) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
AUSTRALIAN STAMPS
Bought, Sold & Exchanged.
Gibbons’ Philatelic Albums
and all requirements. Price lists gratis.
J. H. SMYTH & 00.,
88 JCINCt ST., SYDNEY
SPECTACLES
DEFECTIVE
VISION, to
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
structions and Price List, our maTVelldi^ly -accurate
and popular SELF SIQHT-MEASUamG PATENT
y its use you can Test y ur own sight and de-
termine for yourself the style and quality of the
glasses you may need. Write for it to— 7
A. BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
Strand Arcadei
t t
Don’t shout
1 hear you. I can heat now
as well as anybody.
"• How?’ Oh some- ,
thingnew— The Wilson
Common-sense Ear-
Drum. I’ve a pair in my
ears now. you can't see them
they're invisible. I wouldn
v know I bad them in myself,
only that I hear all right.
The Wilson Ear-Drum is
really a substitute tor me
.working parts of tl,e
natural ear. Has no
wire. Invisible, easy to a
just, comfortable Tota.l,
different from any other oe-
Descriptive pamphlet sent upon recjues
t. CHAtHUft, 229-29 1 Collins- St., HelP^
POLITICAL
POINTS
M.L. Premier Seddon, who has not shed
all of his sense by any means, proposes during the
coming session to increase the tax on absentees.
Senator Higgs has tabled a motion in the
Senate that the Imperial Government should be
invited to appoint an Australian as Governor-
General.
The Irvine Govt, has definitely announced
that it is not its intention to introduce a Bill
compelling Victorian civil servants to wear rings
in their noses.
If Seddon can pass a Bill which he has
prepared, future M.L. Judges will retire at 70.
Some recent scandals have prompted this. And
even 70 is sometimes too old.
According to the Sydney Freetrade press,
unlimited competition leads to improvement.
When are the daily papers, that have just lost
their free carriage Protection, going to show the
beneficial results of the cool, bracing tonic ? There
-are no signs so far.
a The unemployed followed leader Fleming
up to Melbourne gaol last week, and desired to be
locked up out of the cold. As they were not
importers or Kyabramapootras, no charge could
be levelled against the deputation, and it was
still at large when this issue went to press.
The Owe’Sullivan achieved a distinction
lately which is making Philp and Leahy writhe:
The Queensland town of Goondiwindi welcomed
him with a procession, a banquet, and a brass
band. Certainly Goondiwindi wants a railway,
and the Owe’S. is the man who promises rail-
ways.
London Daily Chronicle from its Aus-
tralian correspondent re the Vic. railway strike :
It is rumored that when the strike ia over a proposal
will be submitted to Parliament for leasing the railways
to an En-glish syndicate.
That probably was the game of Irvine and Bent
from the first; and it is still being played.
The dancing-master tripping about of
Black Rod at the opening of N.S.W. Parliament
the other day provoked several members to laugh.
That is a bad sign, but a worse one was when
several ladies audibly tittered. As long as sham
can be treated seriously there is health in it;
when it is giggled, at it promises soon to topple
into the grave.
The See Government, at the opening of
N.S.W. Parliament, put into the mouth of the
Governor a strong “ leading article ” in its defence.
John See claims that the daily newspapers won’t
give fair play to his speeches and statements, and
he took advantage of the fact that they couldn’t
well cut down the Governor’s speech, to force them
to publish a solid two columns of his side of the
case.
KEEPING THE WHEELS GOING .
Rumored that Thos. Rent is training for another
railway strike.
Premier Seddon, of Maoriland, is boasting
now that he is a Freetrader and always has been
a Freetrader. Still another Dry Dog leader—a
man who has been for 10 years Premier of a State
with a thorough-going Protectionist tariff of no
less than 304 lines ! The Freetrade Premier who
maintains 304 protective duties is no less of a
fraud than the teetotal fanatic who owns 304
public-houses.
Even Servia, which has just murdered its
Obrenovitch so horribly, has its good points. It
has free and compulsory education, which includes
agriculture and training in domestic duties; it
maintains public granaries as a precaution against
glut and famine; there are State-worked coal
mines, and there are no fat landlords and practi-
cally no poor. “ The poorest have some sort of
freehold property,” says the Statesman’s Yeah
Book.
' The “ great natural producing industries,”
w iich “don’t require coddling,” are coddled all
the time. S.A. has for years manfully struggled
to make its own ploughshares in spite of the want
of locsl iron and coal; but it finds that, though
the railways put local farm produce in class A,
they put local ploughshares in class I. So a ton
of easily-handled ploughshares, in bundles, costs
£3 in freight where a ton of unwieldy wine-casks
costs only £l.
Victorian Lands Minister Taverner has
been discovering that the pious example of the
last Minister (M’Kenzie) has been followed in the
Lands Department:
The Minister has found that one of his officers has been
holding 26,000 acres of grazing land under lease, of which
he is claiming a seven years' renewal. It is also stated
that surveys of 200 and 300 acre blocks in this man’s dis-
trict, recommended to be allotted to certain applicants
three years ago, have not been made, and thus the men
have been debarred from settling on the land.
Since Q. Minister Leahy took over the
administration of the Charities Department,! he
has been moving heaven and hell —and a bit of
purgatory—to revolutionise the administrative
methods of his predecessor, Foxton, now Minister
for Lands. Foxton, with all his impetuosity,
is a more humane man than Leahy, and hesitated
to cut down vital expenditure on relief. But the
new broom is sweeping clean with a vengeance,
and threatens to brush the old indigents into the
street.
At the Adelaide Conference of the Cham-
bers of Commerce, Meeks, of Sydney, speaking on
the question of levelling the wharfage charges
throughout the Commonwealth, said that if the
wharves were owned privately the owners had the
right to charge what they liked. This is con-
sistent Tory doctrine. Capital may demand
what it likes for its services, but, if Labor tries to
get the best for its services, there is a howl of
execration all through the respectable portion of
the community.
It is a pity some original-minded member
didn’t propose, as an addition to Carruthers’
motion that the N.S.W. Assembly disapproved
of the Government, the statement “also this
House doesn’t think much of the Opposition
either.” Then a level-headed and independent
member would have a chance of voting against
both parties and could.thus do his duty all round.
The system by which a member can’t disapprove,
of See without approving of Carruthers is an
insult to the public intelligence.
The tricky move of the Victorian House
of 48 Rich Landlords, whereby all new Wages
Board decisions under the existing temporary
Factories Act must be carried by a seven-tenths
majority, has, as a matter of course, prevented
anything further being done under the Minimum
Wage law. Seven boards have been sitting since
last October trying to get the necessary majority
for even the simplest division ; so far, they have
cost the State £550, and not one has done any-
thing. Some more Kyabram economy.
Weird rumor from Melbourne :
Treasurer Shiels is getting a bit nervous over the 5$
million Victorian debentures maturing December 31.
Consultations with bank managers are now frequent and
Cabinet meetings numerous. The British money-lender
declines to “convert” or even discount Vic. Treasury
paper. As the State Trust Accounts and the Savings
Bank funds are pretty well used up Shiels is said to con-
template commanding the 10 banks to take up half-a-
million Treasury notes each. Meanwhile Irvine is urging
further economies and the civil servants expect another
cut. Anyhow it is pretty certain that the reductions
made last year will continue indefinitely.
Last Tamworth (N.S.W.) election—inci-
dents of whioh are to come before the law courts
shortly was full
of fun and bedevil-
ment. Labor party
advocates, while
addressing open-
air meetings, were
followed around by
a small crowd of
boo-hooers, and so
resorted to strategy
to get to the ears
of those who
wished to hear
them. A meeting
was announced for
one hotel balcony,
and a leat her-
lunged friend
yelled there at a
hooting crowd,
whilst the real
speakers of the
evening slipped
away and gathered
orderly meetings
at other corners.
Soon the leat her-
lunged man
found his work
hard and stopped
speaking, but con-
tinued to mouth and
gesticulate. For half-
an-hour he said nothing,
to the accompaniment of a
storm of.groans and hoots. Then
an Irishman in the crowd detected the deception.
“Begorra, bhoys, he’s sayia’ nothing,” he yelled,
and the meeting broke up.
A case that showed the necessity of more
honest administration of the old age pension
system turned up at South Melbourne court
lately. It was shown that two unnatural sons,
to escape paying a couple of shillings a week
apiece towards their father’s pension, had repre-
sented the ancient as a thriftless drunkard;
whereupon the miserly Treasurer, without giving
the old man a chance to refute the slander,
promptly cancelled the allowance; and it was
only when the ex-pensioner started to die publicly
of starvation that the hideous injustice done him
became known. The whole pension system can-
not be too soon transferred to the Federal
Government, if only because'its administration is
certain to be such a pleasing contrast to the mean,
huckstering, “charity-giving” spirit displayed
by Shiels and his friends.
Some evidence re the blessings of a low
tariff given before the iron bonus commission :
Joseph Vaughan (iron master, of South Melbourne)
stated that he manufactured angle, T, and bar iron, the
raw material being scrap iron drawn from the various
Australian States. Witness employed 80 hands. They
worked only 26 weeks last year, the cause being com-
petition by Belgium, from which place a lot of steel was
imported. Belgian competition was so keen that he
anticipated pulling his works down and taking them to
South Africa. Some of the best of his men would be
taken over too.
BENT’S NEXT MOVE.
“ When asked about the loans to employees, Mr. Bent
said : ‘ I have been thinking about this for some time. I
have seen in the papers many insolvencies of railway em-
ployees, and I think that these should be stopped.
Tradesmen and sellers of goods must be protected, and
whether their customers are railway employees or not,
they have to be paid. We will have to bring in a scheme
of paying our employees so that they will not have any
excuse for dodging their tradesmen.’ ” — Melb. Herald.
Bent (to railway employee): “Your tradesmen’s
• bills prove to me that you Have been squander-
ing too much of your money on trades unions.
In future I will draw your screw, and settle
your bills — in fact, manage all your domestic
affairs. ”
The Federal tariff damaged Victoria badly
by reducing Protection, but it vastly assisted
New South Wales by increasing Protection. In
1902—the first complete year of Protection—
N.S.W. gained 4561 people by excess of arrivals
over departures ; and considering that, during the
previous six lamentable years of comparative
Freetrade, it lost 10,223 people by excess of de-
partures the record for 1902 is something remark-
able. The total increase of population, by births
and immigration, in 1902, was nearly 26,000, a'
figure which hasn’t been approached since 1892.
Australian Premier Barton is occasionally
able to stir himself and to make a dignified stand
on behalf of the Commonwealth. Extract from
a letter of his secretary to Sydney D.T. (replying
to a shriek on the free carriage cadge):
In view of the fact that you are prepared to allow the
publication in your columns of statements on this sub-
ject, which have been proved to be baseless, and of
charges which you know to be false, I am to state that
the Prime Minister feels hound to decline to hold any
further communication with you upca this question,
until Charges, thus publicly made, are as publicly with-
drawn.
One Bibby, Chairman of the Pacific Navi-
gation Co., has arisen in London to whine that
Australia ought to be so beastly grateful for the
good treatment that it has received from the
shipping companies that any talk about prohibit-
ing black labor is hideous ingratitude. Well,
this country is determined that people like the
Pacific S.N. Co. shall not be allowed any longer
to sacrifice themselves for us. We must not im-
pose on their generosity, and by abolishing
cheap black labor we shall, no doubt, awaken
them to a proper respect for their own welfare.
Q. Govt, is considering the advisability of
wiping out its system of out-door relief—ss. a
week. The money dole is being abolished, and
rations sub- tituted. AQ. Minister asserted pub-
licly he knew of one man getting a wage of 6s. 6d.
a day who drew the old-age allowance. The Q.
Minister did not give the name of the individual;
neither did he prosecute him for obtaining relief
under false pretences, neither did he punish the
officials whose neglectful administration was
responsible. He only mouthed this probable lie
in public with the intention of blackening the
outdoor-relief system.
The Freetrade party will be long in re-
covering from that disastrous speech by British
Freetrader Campbell-Bannerman, in which he
declared that practically one-third (12,000,000) of
the people of Freetrade Britain have insufficient
food, and live perpetually on the verge of hunger.
Certainly there are not so many paupers in
Britain as there were, but a pauper is simply a
person who receives poor relief, and the autho-
rities can reduce pauperism to any extent—can
abolish it -altogether, in fact—simply by refusing
relief. Callousness can extinguish pauperism
even more rapidly than prosperity.
Already Westralia feels the pinch which
follows its reckless dealings with land-grabbing
railway syndicates. Some growing towns find
themselves hemmed in ; and a repurchase policy
is coming. It is a beautiful swindle altogether. (1)
The public gives the syndicate land for practically
nothing. (2) The public gives the land a value.
(3) The public pays the syndicate the full value
which it has itself created. Having given the
land, the public can’t get that back ; but it can
get some of the value (which it, itself, has created)
by a land-tax. So a land-tax ought to precede a
repurchase policy every time.
The demand of the Tory party that Vic-
torian Premier Irvine should do something to
protect Bent’s blacklegs against the Tocsin
which has been publishing their names and ad-
dresses, is a curious one. The Tory party says
that these men are heroes, admired by the great
mass of the community, and if it believes this it
should be rather pleased to have the Tocsin iden-
tify them so that the great mass of the community
may go and worship them. 1
Queensland’s Redistribution of Seats Bill
will, it is hoped, give the Philp Minis-
try a longed-for chance to flatten out
some political opponents. There is a
great art in redistributing seats. Very
many years ago, Elbridge Gerry of a
New England (U.S.) State, laid the
foundations of the art. He found
when a redistribution of seats was
on, that he had become so unpopular
that no ordinary method of dividing
the State would leave a single elec-
torate that wanted Gerry at any
price. So the few scattered dis-
tricts where he had a pull were
made into an electorate regard-
less of everything else. And
when the work was finished
Gerry’s electorate was in the
shape of a very long salamander
and straggled right across the
State. Then the people made
a compound word of “ Gerry ”
and “salamander” and “gerry-
mander” was invented.
Premier Philp’s recent N.
Queensland tour foreshadows a
fresh large batch of ‘shindycat’
measures. Normanton, George-
town, Cairns, Ravenswood, C.
Towers, and every other place he
visited heard nothing but flam about “our vast
natural resources,” and hosannas to private
enterprise in the shape of shindycats.
Last year Victoria had about the poorest
harvest for the past 20 years, and even with only
a handful of grain to move, the helpless, hulking
Bent broke down in his manngement and there
was a deadlock. This year Victoria seems like
having the biggest harvest for 20 years, and what
' 111 happen with the rotten permanent way, and
the broken engines driven by Bent’s new drunks,
and the reduced staffs, and the crippled rolling
stock, Heaven only knows.
Again Carruthers, the weary platitudi-
narian, states the policy by which he is going to
save N.S.W. if he reaches “hoffis” :
The cause of the masses will be safe in my hands, for j
will aim to secure to them equal justice, equal rights and
better opportunities to employ their labor. Believing as
I do in the noble work of education as a means of up-
lifting a country and its people, believing as I do that the
land is the source of all wealth, and that an educated
people settled on the soil and developing our resources
by their enlightened industry will tend more to national
wealth and greatness, I shall always make every effort to
improve our educational methods, and to more largely
encourage a system of settlement on our lands, whereby
the trend of population may be diverted from over-
crowded cities to the land, which is pining for population.
It is on a broad-minded policy such as is embodied in these
ideas that the salvation of this State and its workers
depends. All other matters such as we hear so
much vaunting over, such as pensions, early closing, and
artificial restrictions on man’s freedom—justifiable as
they may be —are but superficial remedies for a disease
which is deep-seated. We want in this country more
intelligence in productive efforts, more self-determination
in the struggles of life, and freer access to our land and
all its undeveloped riches. These are the means of per-
manent betterment of our people, and with a reformed
Parliament, which will shake off the myths and fallacies
now so blindly followed, we shall see the inauguration of
a new and a better era for our country and our country-
men.
“Broad-minded policy,” “settlement on the
lands” “trend” “productive effort,” “develop-
ing our resources,” “access to the land,” “un-
developed riches” “inauguration,” “freedom!”
The writer camped out one night last summer by
the Nymboyda River, and a cow-bell was making
just these same remarks on the bank all night.
In all Carruthers’ talk about economising
there is not a word about the Ministerial money-
PLEASE RETURN TO
FEDERAL PARLIAMENT.
bag into which
N.S.W. Minis-
ters dip to cover
the expenses of
their country
trips. No record
of these dips
comes before
Parliament or
appears on the
Estimates. Min-
isters just help
themselves, and
in one of the
Reid Govern-
ments in which
Carruthers held"
office the sums
extracted came
to several thou-
sands. An active
Minister can ac-
tually doublehis-
salary by run-
ning about the
country. Some
running about
is necessary, but
the facts should
figure on the
Estimates and be open to Parliamentary criticism^
Recalled, in connection with the sugges-
tion that the hard-up royal Connaught may be
the next Gov.-General, that Victoria angled for
the royal Louise and her Lome, in ’B9. The Vic-
Governor’s salary then was £lO,OOO, but it wasn t
enough, and there were suggestions that it should,
go back to the £15,000 of Hothaiffis and Bandy s-
day. But Victoria would not bite; an( * Hope-
toun was sent instead. Those old £l5,O(Hr
Governors, by the way, Hotham, Barkly, and one
or two more, were always styled “ Governor-in-
Chief.”


B
Callaghan Boots i
24/6
A PAIR.
POST FREE
DUTY FREE
r
s a
NO
RISK
IN
FIT!
NO
DOUBT
ABOUT
LONG
WEAR!
The CALLAGHAN Tan
WILLOW CALF Lace
BOOT, with made-to-order
appearance, whole goloshed,
fast color eyelets, in pointed
or medium toes 23/6.
Or, a pair delivered prepaid to any
address in the Commonwealth
upon -receipt of — —24/6.
The same style of Boot, in Black
Calf, delivered, prepaid 23/6.
Buy a pair of these Boots, and make
your money go twice as far as hitherto.
With these Boots you will have better appearing
and more comfortable feet. If you live at a
distance our thoroughly systematised Mail Order
Department will fit you to your perfect satisfaction, or
return your money. State size of boot worn, and shape of
toes desired.
A. Viotory from Junee.
Thirty Years a Sufferer.
VITADATIO
OT7RBDIIIM.
Mr. S. A. PALMER, Sydney.
Dear Sir,—lt is now close on 30 years since I had the
first attack of a cold, which has troubled me continuously.
At first the-cough was only slight, and, as most people
thoughtlessly do, t did not take any particular care of
myself, thinking the cough would soon leave me. I was
then about 14st. in weight; hut I began to get much
worse, and, in spite of medical attendance, I soon found
the cold had such a severe hold on me that nothing appar-
ently did me any good. For years I tried many of the
advertised remedies, but they all failed to cure me. The
cough increased, and before I could lay down in bed at
night I would be seized with a fit of coughing, which
frequently lasted for an hour, during which time I would
expectorate a great quantity of phlegm. I lost flesh
rapidly and my clothes were simply hanging on me like
bags. However, a short time ago, I commenced taking
“ Webber’s VITADATIO,” and, after the second bottle, I
began to improve, and now, after taking six large bottles
of VITADATIO, I feel splendid, and have regained my
loss in weight. lam 14st. again. I cannot express my
gratitude for the recovery of my long-lost health. I
intend taking a few more bottles, so as to make-the cure
thorough and complete, and I am sending you this
testimonial in the hope that other sufferers may be
induced to give your wonderful medicine a trial. —Yours
gratefully', • „
(Signed) W. R. LYONS.
Junee, late of Albury, February 26, 1900.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
Seatl Office: Clarendon Street N»,
South Melbourne,
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The ptice of medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
Elliot Bros., Sydney, Sole Agents forN. S. Wales.
FOR NOVEL, CHEAP AND INTERESTING
Ppl7 Q VT r "P Q Toys, Puzzles, Games,
A JE\ JZi 1 N 1 U Musical Instrumen t .
Curiosities'* that cannot _„ J pTI7 T C
be procured", elsewhere 3.11 Cl Vll-T 1 O •
- SEND FOR OUR
Hundred Page illustrated Catalogue,
AVe will post it FREE.
The Union Mfg. & Agency Go.
; 359 and 361 Collin's Street, Melbourne.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 ceorqe st., Sydney.
ARTIFICIAL LIMBS^
We make Artificial
Limbs on our own
premises. We are Sole
Agents for the celebrated
"Marks” Artificial
Limbs of every des-
cription.
If you have a friend who is in need of such
assistance, send us his or her name and address, and
we will forward a book of particulars.
- DENYER BROTHERS,
Surgical lnstrument Makers,
281 George Street (opp. Hunter-st.), Sydney.
... .Also at Melbourne.
It was hoped N.S.W. Inspector-General
of Police would be left to police duty instead of
sitting.about on a multitude of boards. But when
Mr. Fosbery vacated the chairmanship of the
Public Service Tender Board, last week, Assistant
Inspector-General Garvan was promptly appointed
to the position. The police service is big enough
work for a whole man.
The Sydney organ of black labor is again
braying ferociously that “the claim of che Aus-
tralian Parliament to dictate to a company whose
boats travel but 1000 miles in Australian waters
for every 11,000 in foreign, what kind of labor it
shall employ, is a piece of unparalleled impudence."
But Australia doesn't wish to do anything of the
kind ; all it claims is the right to say with whom
iti will spend its money, and that it will not
employin its mail service ships that are worked
by spider-legged Hindus. Surely that is not
dictating to anybody. Next time the black labor
editor goes to buy a hat, and the shopman passes
him one two sizes too large, presumably he will
buy the thing ; to refuse to buy it would render
him guilty of the unpardonable impudence of dic-
tating to a man who sells thousands of hats to
others and only one to him, what sort of hats he
should sell. Also every civilised Government
does dictate to ships that do not travel more than
3$ miles of their waters that they shall not
employ labor afflicted with plague, small-pox, and
many other unpleasant attributes.
CHAMBERLAIN’S COUGH REMEDY
Is a cure for severe colds, persistent coughs, and
a preventive of pneumonia. It is the mother’s
favourite for whooping cough. It always cures,
and cures quickly. Is. 6d.*
HOTEL DANIELL
(Late inPERIAL),
Corner of GEORGE & ADELAIDE STS.,
BRISBANE.
“Your Money Back
If You Want It.”
ALTHOUGH the reader of this may be hundreds of
miles away, please believe we mean exactly what
we say. We are Tailors and Outfitters with a reputation
to lose, and permit nobody to say that CHARLES
GILBERT expects a customer to keep what doesn’t
please him.' On these lines we have built one of the
largest tailoring- trades in the Commonwealth, and if
you write for samples of New Winter Suitings (from
50s. Suit to Measure), self-measuring forms, and
send us a trial order, your dealings with us will be
exactly on this footing. You thus stand to lose nothing,
but we mean to gain your future business.
Queen Streei, Brisbane (only).
Sunlight Soap will not
turn the nap off woollens
lor the surface off linens.
SUNLIGHT
ia, SORP
REDUCES
EXPENSE
TYPEWRITERS
«S
3 of the World’s Best
s.
TO
W
SJ
New flodel No. 10, adopted by Depts. of
External and Home Affairs.
THE No. 5 DENSMORE. Fastest machine in the world. Used and endorsed
* | by Messrs. Dalgety & Co., Sydney.
TPHR NEW CFNTTIJPV Velvet touch—as supplied to Governor-General and
* Governors of N.B. Wales and Victoria.-
UNITED TYPEWRITER AND SUPPLIES CO.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE and PERTH.
BRISBANE— Webster & Co. ADELAIDE—N. York Import. Co. LAUNCESTON— HbdIev Button.
™ E CENTURY THERMAL BATH CABINET
is equal to A DOCTOR IN EVERY HOME.
THOUSANDS CLADLY TESTIFY TO THIS FACT!
Hot-air and Vapour Baths administered by this Cabinet are
a speedy cure for RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA, BRONCHITIS,
GOUT, LIVER and KIDNEY TROUBLES, INFLUENZA,
COLDS, FEVERS—in fact, there is no disease which can resist
the power of heat as applied by this Cabinet. 300,000 now
being used in Great Britain weekly.
PRICES, deliveredi 30 - to 84/-.
Write to-day for descriptive Booklet—FßEE.
Century Thermal Bath Cabinet Co. Ltd. (Dept. 8)
(Sole Agents Wanted
for Sydney.)’
ALEX. TROUP, Manager,
Elizabeth St., flel^eurne.
HARDY BROTHERS,
Vice-Regal Jewellers,
‘ ZEISS ” FIELD GLASSES
—AT —
REDUCED PRICES.
OWING to special reductions
by the manufacturers we can
now supply these famous glasses
dit
Greatly Reduced Rates.
New Price. Old Price.
No. 8 .. £9 10 0 £ll 10 0
No. 6 .. 8 10 0 10 0 0
Goods forwarded without delay to all
parts of Australia.
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY, M j at 118 QUEEN ST„ BRISBANE.
%
r . ;
PI
Sc'T
CORSETS
The Recognised Standard
High-Class Corsets
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦«
LATEST SPECIALTY
STRAIGHT FRONT
NOUVELLE FORM
Obtainable from Leading
Drapers Everywhere.
Avoid Inferior Imitations, and see that
eaoh. pair bears the Manufacturer’* “Trade
Mark on band inside, as above.


Banking, Public Companies, Ac.
Upon - all - Classes
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST,
EAST TERMS.
WE
*5
<v
$
&
&
$5
BILLS
discounted.
a\r.s,w.
fflont deplete (Jo., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
*74. CASTLEREAGH ST. f 74
1 SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
-THU—-
Colonial Mutual Life
assurance society limited,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 P ltt; Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Buhns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Robirts
C.M.G. M.L.C.; Bruck Smith, Esq., M.H.R.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,706,830.
Policies issued 91,305— assuring £2(,614,218.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,981,398.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses— eauitably distributed.
Head Office:
•19 & 421 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK. J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
The Bank of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director-JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J P Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp& Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... - • 00 .°® 0
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
S "“’' £350.000
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMIT KD.
PAPTTAU PAID-UP £456,927
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 176,239
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 58,000
£691,160
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World .
Queensland Smelting (Jompy.
** (LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Cornier Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For l tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, the Branch
Office, 54 Market-street. Melbourne, or IRWIN HINDS,
Branch Manager, 6 Spring-street, Sydney.
Tugr SAVINGS BANK
HAS MONEY TO LEND in VICTORIA
at 41 per cent., in sums of £5OO to £16,000.'0n Town
Properties; and £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES
FOR FIVE YEARS, with option of paying on part
half-yearly.
FARMERS’ CREDIT FONCIER.
Loans from £5O to £2OOO at 4£ per cent, for 31| years.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
29 Market-street, Melbourne.
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Svdney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Hon. John See, Lt.-001. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide: L. Af
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Fari.anb ; Brisbane, K. Wilson; Perth, A. W.
Farouhar J. J.ALLEN, General Manager for Australia
F ARQUIIAR. 131 P i t t St., SYDNEY.
OCEAN
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. ••
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders
Total Capital
2,000,000
500,000
£2,500,000
The trustees, executors
AND
agency company limited,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) £10,494 lb 9
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ,
0. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M L O.
JAMES BORROWMAN, 1 an iger.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager
JAMES MARTIN & CO.,
161 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY N.S.W.
FOR
ACETYLENE GAS
H/lARTIN’S Reliable AUTOITATIC GENERATORS
ITI are in daily use throughout New South Wales, and
users everywhere speak of them in the highest terms.
Manufactured from the best Galvanised Steel. Light
vour home, church, store, factory, or town with
Martin’s Acetylene Gas. Comprehensive Catalogues
and all other particulars can be obtained from us.
CARBIDB OF CALCILUT at the BEST PRICES.
Shipping.
nxr. id. Li.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Four-Weekly Mail Service
OP
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-screw steamer.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
Interstate First Class Return Tickets are now available
for Return by the Steamers of the P. and 0., Orient
Pacific, or M.M. Co.’s.
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. STETTIN. sth AUGUST.
, And Regularly Every 6 Weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents.
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney. *
TN€ AB€RD€€N LIH€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London .
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
ABERDEEN
DAMASCUS
NINEVEH
A. Robb
R. B. V. McKilliam
N. Allan ..
Noon, July 3
Noon, July 24
Noon, Aug. 14
FARES:
London .. IT"' .. «« atS'S Os.
Cape and Natal .. £3l 10e .. £l3 13a to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from il2o.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
[juddart, parker & C°’ s C ine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HO MART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND FORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
Oceanic Steamship Company,
A. and A. LIKTE.
T -W O
GRAND BXCXJRSIORT9.
YOSEMITE
VALLEY and CALIFORNIA BIG TREES,
UP IN THE HEART OF THE SIERRA NEVADA MOUNTAINS.
Travellers of note who have visited Switzerland say Yosemite surpasses even
the grandeur of the Alps.
£72 (including everything).
HOTEL DEL MONTE (Monterey).
ALL-THE-YEAR-ROUND HEALTH AND PLEASURE RESORT.
£65 (including everything).
Through Passengers to London and American centres may participate in these excursions.
BURNS PHILP and CO., Ltd., managing Agents,
nARiSTRR. PTTT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
COMMISSIONERS OF SAVINGS BANKS.
FOR ADVANCES DEPARTMENT
(KNOWN AS THE CREDIT FONCIER).
SIXTH ISSUE OF
DEBENTURES FOR £lOO,OOO,
AT 3| PER GENT.
TO MATURE 30th APRIL, 1909.
To be issued under the authority of the Acts of Par-
liament of Victoria, Nos. 1722, and 1778,
CONDITIONS FOR TENDERS.
1. Tenders will be receivable at the Commissioners’
Head Office, 29 Market-street, Melbourne, for the whole
or any portion of the above amount until noon on
MONDAY, 29th June, 1903, when Tenders will be opened
in the presence of- Tenderers or their Agents who may
attend.
2. Each Tender must be sealed, addressed to The
Commissioners of Savings Banks, Melbourne, and
endorsed “Tender for Debentures.”
3. Debentures will be issued in denominations of £lOO,
or £5OO, as mav be desired by successful Tenderers, and
Applicants must state in their Tenders the number and
value of the Debentures they desire to receive.
4. Interest at 3£per cent, per annum will be payable
half-yearly on 30th April and 31st October, the first such
payment’ being due on 30th April, 1904, at the Commis-
sioners’ Head Office, or at any Savings Bank in Victoria.
5. Any Tenders below £9B per £lOO will not be enter-
tained. .
6. Tenderers of. the highest premium will have prefer-
ence, and to Tenderers of even rates, debentures will be
allotted proportionately to the applications, as nearly as
may be practicable. Tenders at a price including a
fraction of a shilling other than sixpence will not be pre-
ferentially accepted by reason of such fraction.
7. Any Tender received from the Savings Banks
Department shall not be allowed to compete with other
Tenders, but all other Tenders shall have preference.
8. Tenders must be accompanied by a deposit in cash,
or by a Bank Draft payable to the Commissioners of
Savings Banks, amounting to 10 per cent, of the face
value of the Debentures applied for, and if the Tender be
accepted in full, or pro rata, the balance must be paid on
or before 31st August, 1903, or may be paid at any earlier
date. Interest at 3£ per cent, per annum will be allowed
on accepted Tenderers’ lodgments of 10 per cent, and
over from date of receipt to 31st October, 1903, and will
be payable up to that date on the issue of the debentures.
9. The deposit of 10 per cent, will be forfeited to arid
become the absolute property of the Commissioners, in
> the event of tljfe balance remaining unpaid after the dates
above specified'.
10. Commission will be allowed, only to Brokers who
are metphertof recognised Stock Exchanges, at the rate
of ten shillings per cent, on the face value of Debentures
for accepted Tenders.
11. Principal will be payable at the Head Office of the
Commissioners in Melbourne.
12. The due payment of these Debentures, and of all
interest thereon, is a charge on all the securities held by
and the funds of the Commissioners, under Division 3 of
Part 1 of the Act No. 1481, and is also guaranteed hy the
Government of Victoria.
13. Copies of the authorising Acts may be inspected,
and Conditions and Form of Tender can be obtained upon
application at the Head Office of the Commissioners or
any of their Savings Banks.
14. By Section 36 of the Act 1481, Section 5 of Act 1722,
and Section 13 of Act 1778 ,any corporate body, Charitable
or Friendly Society, may invest any portion of the funds
or moneys under their control in the purchase of these
Debentures ; and any executors, administrators, or trus-
tees having the power or duty of investing any moneys
may purchase these Debentures with or out of such
moneys (unless forbidden to do so by the Act or instru-
ment under which they act), and every such investment
and purchase shall be deemed a due investment of any
such funds or moneys.
By order of the Board.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General of Savings Banks.
4th June, 1903.
Bushman and Buccaneer,
The racy Australian verses of “The Breaker,”
(Lieut. Morant) with memoir by “Frank Renar.”
PRICE, ONE SHILLING. Post Free from Bulletin
office, Is. Id.
Wholesale from Edwards, Dunlop and Co., Sydney.
A Policy for the Commonwealth:
A Handy Manual of Politics. By James
Edmond. Price, 6d. ; post free from The
Bulletin Office, 7d.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
Aorangi, July 13. Moana, Aug. 10,
The Most Popular and the Fastest
Steamers on the Pacific,
Grand Excursion to Canada.
The Finest Scenery in the World,
and an Opportunity to see the
South Sea & Hawaiian Islands.
£6O FOR 63 DAYS, INCLUDING ALL EXPENSES
ON STEAMER, RAILWAY and at HOTELS.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
Unrivalled Position in LONDON
(England),
The Langham Hotel
PORTLAND PLACE
And REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality.
flodern Appointments. Moderate Tariff.
“The Challenge”
Latest Scientific
Punching Machine.
A new World’s Record of 12251b5. was established on
the above machine at the Royal Agricultural Society’s 1
Show, Sydney, 1903, by Mr. T. W. Aulsehrook, of Messrs.
Aulsebrook and Sons, Ltd., the previous World’s Record,
held by Mr. Robert Fitzsimmons, champion pugilist,
being 10851 bs.
The “Challenge” is an Automatic Penny-in-the-Slot
Machine, and is especially suitable for Hotels, Billiard
and Refreshment Rooms, Tobacconist Shops, etc.
It is a great attraction to any place, a first class money-
maker, never gets out of order, and requires no attention
whatever.
All other kinds of Automatic Slot Machines kept in
Stock. Illustrated Catalogue posted on application,
J. LANDES,
108 PITT ST., SYDNEY,
Sole Ag nt for Australasia.
THE BULLEiIN STORY BOOkT^
By Sixty Bulletin writers. Cloth, 300 pages •
price, 4s. 6d. ; postage, 6d.
SOL* DISTRIBUTING AGENTS t
EDWARDS, DUNLOP & 00., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and trorc
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhippingat Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Innamiricka,
Friday, Jtine 26.
'
S.S. Wollowra,
Saturday, July 4
(Without Transhipment)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oatrna
S.S. Rockton, June ‘27.
■S.S. Innamincka, July i.
S.S. Gabo, July 11.
Best and Cheapest ltonte to (toldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. 8. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
p.
AND Q
COMPANY’S
ROYAL MAIL 3TEAMYR3
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting’ at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave'Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B to £77
Ditto Ditto Return, £66 to £ll5
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by Orient-Pacific, Messageries
Mari times and N.D.L. Steamershaving room.
f
A. GORDON WESCHE,
Acting Agent.
63 Pitt-street.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and t*ARIA
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract withtha
French Government, calling at MELBOUBN'E, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows:
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATE 3. ENGLI3U
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meat
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc and also accompany them to Paris ami Cal sis.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
State Ports are available for return by P. and 0.,
Orient Pacific and N.D.L. steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Office!,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
L. BRICARD, Acting Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY THE . .
“E. and A.” LINE.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Leave Sydney.
Steamer.
Tns Commander.
•EMPIRE .. 14500 P. T. Helms
EASTERN 3600 Winthrop Ellis .
•AUSTRALIAN .. 3000 W. G. McArthur
EMPIRE - • 4500 P. T. Helms
July 8
August 5
September 2
September 30
♦Does not call at Port Darwin.
EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans. .. _ ,
Through bookings at special rates to Europe via Canada,
U S. America, < r the Trans-Siberian Railway.
For handbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.,
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-at., Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
rNLORODYNL
Caution.— Genuine Chlorodyn*.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, CQLDS,
ASTHMA, BRON OTITIS,
DIARRHCEA, **" oa
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
IHE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS <4
Sept. 28, 1896, says:
"If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to »
nost generally useful, to the exolnsion of aj
others, I should say Chlohodynh. ! never te*JJ
without it, and its apphcability t
relief of a large number of > simple ailments forma
its best recommendation.
ornamcntal hair.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s eac^
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pat receive
write for any Information. Country
our prompt and careful attention.
HAIRDRESSERS 4 WIGMAKERS.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge HairdressmgV
Evkry Requisite for Saloon Usb in r
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia
CRAIG & AITKB ’
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
6RO-682 George Street, Sydney.
At Dawn and Dusk:
By V. J. Daley
with portrait.
In handsome cloth,
Price 55.; postage, 4d.


Ping Pong it is all the go,
Learn to play it—don’t be slow ;
Lots of fun you’ll find indoors,
While outside the tempest roars.
You’ll gladly think you’re snug and warm,
And not out in the raging storm
To catch a cold, for which be sure
To take some Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
In “The Science of Politics” the author
refers to the Victorian Upper House thus:
From the first it has been a plutocratic assembly.
The author? Not some wild demagogue, but Mr.
Sheldon Amos, M. A., barrister-at-law, author of
“The Science of Law” and other works; late
Professor of Jurisprudence in University College,
London, and to the Inns of Court; late Examiner
in Constitutional History to the University of
London.
IS MOST ANNOYING,
A cold at this season is most annoying, and
should not be neglected. Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy will relieve the lungs, make expectora-
tion easy, effect a quick cure, and leave the
system in a healthy condition. It always cures,
and cures quickly. Is. 6d.* 1
BEAUTIFUL EYES & LASHES.
M ORRIS’S^
“imperial." Umperial
ohemists & stores.
]£v>e * *
©intment
’ Adds lustre, strengthens vision,
restores lashes. No toilet table
complete without it. Pots 2/-,
Post 2/2 from Proprietary,Melb.
KC
INSTANTANEOUS
BATH HEATERS,
For Gas, Kerosene, or Wood,
from 503.
Large Stock of
ROOM WARMERS,
For Gas and Kerosene only.
Send for Catalogue.
BRANDT BROS.,
236 PITT ST.. SYDNEY
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
J-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
FOREIGN STAMPS.
iA
EM
pHEAP SETS.-40 Japan, Is 6d ;
47 Spain, Is 6d ; 6 British
Guiana, 6d ; 8 Egypt, 6d ; 16 Heli-
goland, Is ; 11 Canada, 6d : 15
Rouinania, 6d, 6 United States War-
ships, 3d ; 8 Java, 6d ; 5 Costa
Rica, 4d ; 6 Guatemala, 6d ; 12
Indian Telegraphs, 6d ; 20 Brazil,
Is ; 12 Cuba, 9d ; 11 Portugal, 6d.
New Catalogue of Stamps, &c., Gratis. Stamps purchased.
CHARLES DONNE, 346 Little Collins st., Melbourne.
64
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. C. ELDEIDGE & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
“/(ever rqind baby! Jt will soon grow now.
‘H ARLENE’
% HAIR.
The very Finest Dressing.
Restores the Hair.
Promotes the Growth.
Arrests the Fall.
Strengthens the Roots.
Preserves the Hair.
Renders it Beautifully Soft.
Removes Dandruff.
Allays all Irritation.
Preserves, Strengthens, and Invigorates
Childrens’ Hair.
Full description and directionsfor use in
20 languages supplied with every bottle.
1/-, 2/6,and (triple 2/6 size) 4/6 per
Bottle from Druggists, &c., all over
the World.
Edwards’ Harlene Co.
High Holborn, London, Eng.
r
DRINK-
GARDNER’S SPA WATER
From our Springs at Helidon. OWEN GARDNER & SONS, Brisbane (Head Office) &at Helidon.
CITIZENS’ LIFE
HEAD OFFICE: Citizens’ Buildings, Moore and Castlereagh Streets, Sydney.
FUNDS £1,000,000.
Assurance
Co., Ltd.
on security of Freehold City or Suburban Properties,
good Dairy Farms, Agricultural and Grazing Lands
(Freehold or C. P. and C.L.) or Government Stock of
any of the Australian States or New Zealand, at Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
LOANS ARRANGED For a fixed term, or made repayable by instalments,
without notice or payment oF any finer
HAS MONEY TO LEND
Cockroaches!
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
BUFFON’S
COCKROACH . . .
EXTERMINATOR
Clears houses of these pests very quickly.
Has been used for many years with
great success.
To be obtained of all Chemists.
BOSISTO’S
“Parrot Brand”
Eucalyptus Oil
For Rheumatism, Sprains, Bruises,
Wounds, Coughs, Colds and
Sore Throats.
CAUTION.—Ask for Bosisto’s
PARROT BRAND,
and Beware of Imitations.
SANDOW’S
B
CLOSED.
SPRING GRIP DUMB-BELL
Ladies and Gentlemen,
I fear there has been some misunderstanding as
regards the method of using my
PHYSICAL CULTURE APPLIANCES.
In the first instance, my SPRING GRIP DUMB
BELL should be used according to the Charts accom-
panying it. This gives an all-round and symmetrical
development of every muscle of the body, rendering
them firm and strong, and my DEVELOPER, or
OBESITY REDUCER, should be used afterwards,
in conjunction with the Grip Dumb-bells. . . .
Yours faithfully, EUGEN SANDOW.
S. HOFFNUNC & CO. (1902) Ltd., Wholesale Agents.
Obtainable from all Sports Depots, Ironmongers and
Storekeepers throughout Australia.
Try It."
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 108. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
CRAIG &. AITKEN. N.S.W. Barber’s Supply!
House. 680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. .
3F
■P
Ttußurdt.
GOUGHS
Xjfr
Powell’s Balsam
of Aniseed.
SAFE AND RELIABLE
Gives Immediate Relief.
FOR 78 YEARS
THE POPULAR REMEDY FOR
Ceughs, Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza, and all Lung Troubles.
It loosens the Phlegm immediately, and removes
the tickling sensation in the Throat, which de-
prives so many of rest during the night. It also
Strengthens the Voice and Cures Hoarseness.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers,
But »ee the well-known Trade Mark—Lion, Net
and Mouse—is on each wrapper.
. Prepared only by Thomas Powell, Ltd.,
W Blackfriars, London, S.E. a
NERVOUSNESS.
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS of SELF
CURB, will forward the same, free of
charge, to anyone interested.
Address! A. MINER, G.P.0., BYDNEY.
Rtftrtncts' throughout Croat Britain and Colonitt.
ASTHMA
taken from the System.
Nothing remains which can
i produce an attack. You can
eat, sleep and stand exposure without slightest return of
symptoms. Cured to stay cured, bv elimination and re-
construction. Appetite improved; blood enriched; nerves
strengthened; whole system built up; life made enjoyable.
Reliefs, or change of climate no longer needed. We have
treated over 52,000 Asthma and Hay Fever patients. Es-
tablished 1883. Explanatory BOOK 32c post FREE.
Address: I)R. P. HAROLD HAYES’ASTHMATIC INSTITUTE#
Buffalo, N. Y., U. 8. A.
It Dawn and Dusk:
By Victor J. Daley. Handsomely bound }
makes a fine presentation volume to friends
abroad. Post free from The Bulletin
Office, sa. 4d.
The Plain Brown Han in Politics.
At the opposite pole to the “clown in politics
the merry-Andrew with his glozes and his quips,
his insincere merriment and his affectation of good
humor—stands the “plain brown man” who
occasionally finds his way into public life, some-
what after the mysterious fashion in which the
fly gets into the amber. He is a man without
jokes and with a harsh inability to spin out the
unmeaning insincerities which pass current as fine
sentiments on the hustings. After his own fashion
—sometimes a dull and plodding fashion—he aims
at working for his country’s good, and his very
sincerity inflicts on him an unamiable seriousness ;
he knows nothing of the courtship of the
people, of the craft of smiles, the strategy
of flattery. He cannot joke over his prin-
ciples, any more than the devotee can joke
over his religion. Seeing ill in the State, it
puts him in ill mood to compete with the political
clown in the exchange of those small pleasantries
which are so popular and so absolutely useless.
The plain brown man generally gets into politics
more or less by accident. A constituency happens
on occasion not to be wooed by a glib speaker and
returns the quiet man, who has ideas but no
flatteries.
. * * * *
But once in the political arena, once given a
chance to show his mettle, it is astonishing how
quickly the plain brown man begins to establish
for himseff a position of respect. In Parliament
there come numerous occasions when a quip
is of no use, and the finest piece of humbug
does not help things one jot, and then the
plain brown man scores. By-and-bye, when
he attains to Ministerial office, the chances
of displaying his usefulness increase greatly. Ad-
ministrative work calls for sound common-sense
and steady application— not glittering generalities
and artful flatteries. There was never a pound
saved in a national ledger, or a settler put on the
land, or an industry started, or a department
carried through a difficulty, by a joke. A pretty
bit of tumbling, a unique feat of contortionism,
may have a great effect “outside,” but in the
actual governing of the State it is useless and
worse than useless. So, the plain, brown man has
only to be given proper opportunity and his capa-
cities,- which are the capacities the State really
wants for the work of government, begin to
show out in- bold relief—such bold relief that
the electors can't help noticing them. And
the electors, with all their follies, have,
in a community where everybody can read
and write, at bottom a great amount of
common sense. They may hail with delight, and
reward with office, the man who tickles their ears
with flatteries and amuses them with jokes, but
very rarely will they deliberately reject a man of
common sense, tried and proved in administrative
work, for -a clowning opponent; and, if they
should do so, the choice is generally regretted
with promptness, and rectified at the first chance.
As in a recent popular drama the man turns
in time from the garishly-attractive courtesan to
the neat, plain, clean comfort of his lawful wife, so
the elector, if he has a plain brown man of proved
integrity and ability to fall back upon, does not
long wander after the humbug-politician.
* * *
Unfortunately there is not always available
that refuge from the banality of the humbug.
The supply of plain brown men is very limited
indeed. There exists the idea, which has some
foundation in fact, and yet which is on the
whole fallacious, that only the humbug and the
postuter are wanted in politics, and that no other
sort need apply to the electors. Consequently,
the other sort do not apply to anything like a
reasonable extent. They too often leave the
field without a contest,‘without even a challenge,
to blatant insincerity and comic irresponsibility.
So, very frequently, the elector has only the
choice between entertaining and shallow insin-
cerity arid dull, ponderous ignorance; and is not
at all to be blamed for choosing the former.
* * * *
So far as practical experience goes, the plain
brown man contemplating a political career has
really not much to discourage him. It is true
that many politicians have climbed to high places
on no better ladders than those of gab and flattery;
and that, indeed, very many political contests are
decided, not so much by the intrinsic merits of
the candidates as by totally irrelevant and un-
worthy considerations. It is true, also, that the
plain brown man finds it hard at first to get a
hearing, that he must often make some sacrifice
of time and patience before he will be allowed to
give his business-like talents to his country. Still,
whenever the man of this type has came forward,
has surmounted the preliminary difficulties, and
has had some chance of showing his power of
management, his reward has been the continued
confidence of the people ; and the cheap humorist
has not prevailed against him.
* * * *
There have been some conspicuous examples in
Australian politics of the success of the plain
broWn man. Sometimes he has been a very plain
tnan ; sometimes his texture has inclined a little
to the ornamental. But—grouping together men
whose conspicuous qualities were that they relied
on work rather than gab, that they did not
seek power by means of insincerity or hold
it, when attained, with levity—such instances
as Ballance, Kingston and Turner prove that
insincerity, “iloquence” and jocoseness are
not essential to political success. John Ballanoe
held office in Maoriland aided by no graces of ora-
tory, making use of no trickery, sacrificing no
principle, turning no gay and frivolous somersaults
or boneless contortions, simply by his serious,
earnest and high-minded devotion to a democratic
ideal. Kingston had the same experience in
South Australia. Boasting of few of the graces
and none of the hypocrisies of the time-serving
politician, he secured the continued confidence, of
the people by sheer honesty and sturdy devotion
to principle—qualities which now serve him as
well in winning the esteem of a wider electorate.
George Turner in Victoria is a typical
plain brown man, whose greatest glory i 3 the
sneer thrown at him by his enemies that he is
always pursuing with plodding eagerness a half-
crown saying in the national ledger. He came to
the front in Victoria when there was. grave need
for a strictly honest and careful administrator, and
for a man who could see 2s. fid. further off than
any other man could see it; and, having pulled
the State through a most trying time, he was re-
warded with its full confidence, which follows him
into the Federal Cabinet.
**. • *
Indeed, the treatment of the plain brown man
in Australian politics justifies the electorate, when
it is accused of paying too much regard to the
“gift of the gab,” in claiming that it is willing
enough to recognise plain, honest merit, but is
not offered too much of the commodity ; that, if
there is great lack of solid, business-like, prin-
cipled men in Parliament it is through want of
them offering, rather than through the folly of the
ballot-box. At any rate, there is a reasonable
degree of encouragement for men who can’t clown
and can t talk in whirling words about less than
nothing, to go into politics. In the higher ranks
some, with exactly these disqualifications, have
won great honor ; among the juniors men of the
type Of J. C. Watson seem to win their way
rapidly. It is a prevalent idea that entertaining
insincerity has far the best, if not the only, chance
of success in politics. But is that idea a correct
one ? *
Letting Things Slide.
Heaven only knows where Australia got the idea
that it isn’t the customary thing for a country to
try to pay off its debt; but it certainly has that
idea, and hugs it with both arms. And when it
hears by accident of a country that is getting out
of the hands of its Bull-Cohen as rapidly as
possible, it smiles and almost pities that country,
and quizzes its people as at least peculiar. Thus
Robson, M.L.C., of Sydney, who has been to
1 iji, has been telling the Sydney Telegraph the
strange things he observed on the islands, and this
was among them—so strange a thing that the
lelegraph gave it a heading all to itself and
talked about it in its leading columns—“A country
which reduces its debt.” Yet the hard fact is that
there are only one or two disreputable countries
besides Australia which are not trying to pay off
their debts. So absolutely is it part of Great
Britain’s policy to pay off its debt that no period
of peace has passed for a century and a half with-
out a large reduction of the burden. In the few
years between the close of the American War of
Independence and the trouble with Napoleon
.£3,399,724 was wiped off; in the 30 odd
years between Waterloo and the Crimea,
£56,812,695 ; from 1857 down to the end
of last year no less than .£89,233,490. Belgium,
which is in the same position as Australia,
inasmuch as it has no huge military expense,
has a sinking fund of 2\ per cent, per annum.
A very large part of the debt is represented by
railways, and the total interest is now more than
provided by these works. Holland, in the same
way, injikes an annual contribution to its sinking
fund ; since 1850 it has raised £26,575,000 for this
purpose, and its total debt is now only about
.£l6 per head of the population—Australia’s is
£55 17s. 4d. Sweden, whose debt has been
incurred for public works, as Australia’s
has ostensibly been, has recognised that
every public work must fall to pieces some
day, and has accordingly issued no loan without a
sinking-fund provision. The Swedish debt is con-
sequently down to such proportions that the
interest now amounts to 2s. 7d. per head per
annum ; and the railways make about enough
profit to pay that. Norway’s position is much
the same—in 1901 it paid £350,000 in interest and
£130,000 sinking-fund. France has been shock-
ingly handicapped in several ways ; yet in some
of its periods of rest it, too, has wiped off some-
thing, and a provision for sinking-fund is now as
much an annual charge as interest is. And, any-
way, in spite of all its handicaps, France’s annual
interest bill is only £1 4s. 7d. per head, while
Queensland’s is £2 17s. Id., and Australasia’s is
£2 2s. 3d. Even Spain, tired Spain, has in the
past three years raised £5,110,000 more than was
absolutely necessary to pay its creditors their cur-
rent demands. As for the U.S., they faced a debt
of about £580,000,000 in 1866 ; to-day they have a
net debt of just under £200,000,000. About the
only independent country, in fact, which isn’t
paying off its debt is Portugal; and Portugal, in
consequence, will probably be sold up before long.
Even now it is held up in Europe as the Shocking
Example, the nation whose opinion or wish
nobody cares twopence about. Yet, in spite of
all this, Australia goes on hugging the delusion
that it isn’t the ordinary, expected thing for a
country to pay off its debts; and, comforted by
this strange delusion, it goes on leaning up
against a post and letting things slide.


They Touch the Liver.
When you are constipated and bilious, and
your food does not properly digest, your liver
is inactive and needs a remedy that will cause
the bile to flow. Such a remedy is Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills. “They touch the Liver,”
aiding the digestion and assimilation of food.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a searching
remedy, driving all impurities out of the system.
They are a permanent and' positive cure for
biliousness, indigestion, constipation, headaches,
sallow complexion, liver and kidney troubles,
piles, pimples, boils and blotches, and for female
ailments. Packed in amber bottles, with the full
name blown thereon. >
ACCEPT NO SUBSTITUTES.*
t
Sl
A SCIENTIFIC PICK-ME-UP — “ No better
tonic and restorative for the victims of social fes-
tivities exists than a morning draft of Hunyadi
Janos. Sure, swift, searching yet safe, and m
every respect salutary. The best and safest
natural aperient.*
Senator Fraser’s statement (if the Age has
correctly reported him) in the Australian Parlia-
ment that he would like to flog the Labor members
really, suggests that it is time the silly old man
was taken away by kind friends and supplied
with some harmless amusement to fill m his
declining years. There is a point where fw’ 1 ®' 1 '
ness ceases to be amusing and becomes pitiable
instead.
In those cheerful countries where massacres and
wholesale assasinations happen with facility it is
safe to bet very little D.C*L. Whisky is consumed.
D.C.L. is synonymous with civilization. D
walketh hand in hand with peace and progress-
recognised in all civilized lands as the The
Whisky of The Wise.*
Jenkins Iscariot, of South Australia, says.
“ God forbid that the Commonwealth ? ar |! a ( ‘
ment should ever be allowed to take over *
oontrol of the railways.” Now what on ear
does Jenkins Iscariot know about God ?
RESCH’
Absolutely Pure.
SELECT STOCK ALE... LAGER
No Preservatives*
BREWERY aaa OFFICES: DOWLING ST.. REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Australian turf people have the notion that
S'Africa is a land of milk and honey, and atop of those
already on the ground and journeying that road, num-
bers more are arranging to go. Hard to see where
inducement comes in. Examination of entrance money
paid and prizes available in connection with recent three
days mfe’etirig at Johannesburg showed former total
£■3124, while latter only aggregated £7450, which means
expenses are excessively high and prize money compara-
tively low. ’Murkan jockey Ames, just back, said it’s
the last place racing men should think of going to
Australia, at its worst, is heaps better for them. Even
Mo, with much the better end of the game, finds things
none too agreeable—he has to pay a registration fee of
£5OO, and often finds big losers non est on settling day ;
still, however, the bejewelled one keeps at it, and waxes
fat, despite his lamentations.
* * * * .
Malvolio—winner of Melbourne Cup 12 years
ago—died last week from kidney trouble. In 1890 he
scooped Oakleigh Handicap (at a difference of 101 b.) from
Highborn by a neck after a hot finish, and Highborn, a
month or so later, ran second to Carbine in Melbourne
Cup. Highborn’s owner vainly offered 1500 guineas for
Malvolio, who was then a 3-year-old. Subsequently
Malvolio annexed Hawksburn Handicap, and, though
weightily supported for Melbourne Cup weeks before,
his failure to get a place in Melbourne Stakes (won by
late George Hill’s Marvel) at same meeting, caused those
behind him to “unload” considerably. But he won all
the, though only by three-parts of a length from
Sir William—and at 100 to 6 offered. Sir W. was well-
backed by Sydney people at long prices, and gained on
Malvolio every stride near the finish. Malvolio never did
any good afterwards. By Malua from Madcap, by Robinson
Crusoe from Giovanna, by Yattendon, he was foaled in
1887. Admiration, who won the Cambria Plate at
Caulfield, Saturday, is half-sister to Malvolio, who was
full brother to that sterling mare, Maluma. Malvolio’s
Melbourne Cup was worth £10,124 independent of bets.
* * * *
Melbourne Cup winner of three years ago—Clean
Sweep—hash’t so far done anything “down under’’
towards recouping his speculative owner. Last month
he ran unplaced in Newmarket Apprentices’ Handicap
(6fur.) among 17 starters, but betting indicated that no
one was in love with the nag’s prospects. Possibly he
may do better later.
* * * •
Aptly named (on appearances) 4-year-old gelding,
Dromedary, was at Canterbury (N.S.W.) on Saturday, re-
sponsible fora very lively scene. Nag ran in Stewards’ Mile,
and after showing prominently over greater part of the
trip, finished nowhere at the end, though heavily backed
by stable connections. Later he shaped in Canterbury
Handicap (1J miles) and, starting at 10 and 12 to 1, won
in hollow fashion ; when the crowd hooted lustily—
particularly the Leger section and clamored for the
complete annihilation and casting into perdition of horse,
jockey, owner and trainer. For a time the row was
awful and after the last race it was renewed. The horse’s
running unquestionably looked bad—such a distinct
reversal has rarely been witnessed in one afternoon,
but the nag won’t stand being kept under pressure
long, and, again, while he carried Bst. in the mile he only
had 6.7 in the other; conditions of the latter race
probably hit his inclinations better. Dromedary’s
. indifferent display in the earlier event discouraged
backers from putting their money on the race won—
hence the fact of the horse starting such an outsider.
Stipendiaries held an inquiry and readily accepted the
explanation offered.
*-* * *
The committee of the Auckland (M.L.) R.C.
nas got itself seriously disliked owing to its failure to
take notice of a riotous, warring crowd when Battleaxe
won the Grand National Hurdles. This tine nag (who
was taken over for the Vic, G.N. last winter) was donkey
licjced on opening day in an inferior field of six. But in a
toff lot of 11 second day (stake £500) the other 10 never had
a hope. The crowd quickly saw this, and hooting actually
started iloirg before Battleaxe came to the last hurdle.
Once over it, there occurred one of the wildest and most
enthusiastic racecourse rows ever recorded in the coun-
try, and that is saying a great deal. Jockey told
stewards that on the first day the horse struck the
second hurdle from home, and thinking he was badly
hurt he didn’t persevere after getting over the final. The
precious stewards found that the prad had a scar all
right—a very usual occurrence—and accepted the
explanation. Then there was more nightmare.
. * * ...» • . ...
Seventeen runners in AYanda Steeple at
V.A.T.C. meet Saturday had among them one or two
worth noting for the big G.N. ’Chase wherein all but
three of the starters are engaged. Mir.gay was favorite
and Delngoinar, Glenvale, Goldfinder, and Springfield
also had support. Country was too much for Mingay who
cried ago and fell back among the ruck after banging a
few of the jumps hard. At last fence Springfield and
Offender were almost together but former struck the lep
and. though jockey Tomalin pulled him together beauti-
fully, the straight saw Offender streak away and notch 7
lengths best. Winner has 9.5 in G.N. Steeple and should
be hard to beat, but ’tis certain that some of those behind
were only out for an airing. Freedom (third) was running
on at the end in a manner which suggested his prospects
in the coming big plum as worth considering. Offender
is well bred (by Bengal from Apology, by Oudeis from
Romola, by Gemma di Vergy) and first saw light at Berry
Jerry, near Wagga (N.S.W.); he won V.A.T.C. Amateur
Challenge Cup in Aug., 1901.
* * * *
In winning Toolambool Hurdles at Caulfield on
Saturday from 25 others, Marmont squelched the highest
quality field ever stripped for a like event. Rearward
section included high-class leppers Colonel Shillinski,
Lowland Chief, Report, Nansen, Matong, Shoddy, and
Steelrail, as well as Tit for Tat. Pierrot, Quo Vadis, and
other Grand National possibilities. Fact of Marmont
finishing in front with 41b. over and above his G.N.
Hurdles allotment has already brought him into the
position of a very strong tip. My Mistake lined up first
choice (his endorsement being successes in several hurdle
races), and Matong also had a big following. Favorite
was prominent till coming into the straight, when Mar-
mont got to the front and stayed there, winning by three
parts of a/length. Speculation was second and Kipling
third. Marmont hails from Warrnambool district, and is
an aged gelding by Wellington from Lady Gay. He is
asked to hump 9.1 in G.N. Hurdles, and will have no
penalty through Saturday’s success.
* * * *
Recently imported (from M.L.) nag Belmont
won mile handicap trot at last Richmond (V.) meeting in
2.47 3-5 from 35 yards behind scratch, which is a record
for the State, previous best being Emulator’s 2.59. Bel-
mont is a 2yr.-old brother to Almont, and brother in
blood to Dubbo (N.S.W.) crack Fritz.
* * * •
Entries for M.L. Cup show 53 as against 66 last
year, and Halberdier is the only previous winner engaged
this time. Mo has already Lady Lilian, Wairiki, Orloff,
Shrapnel Shell and Quarryman equal favorites at 100 to
6 each.
• * * *
Hardly likely that that fine old performer
Wait-a-bit will figure in V R.C. G.N. Hurdles. Connec-
tions never thought he’d be asked to carry so much as
12.2, besides he has had a couple of seasons at the stud.
* * * *
Brisbane sportdom is talking of two Moseses,
said to have laid a N.S.W. trainer £lOO to Is. each about a
thing they were “certain” of, and when the man who
took the odds won refused to disgorge. Understood that
Brisbane Tatt.’s committee has been asked to enforce
payment.
* • * *
Kalgoorlie R.C. “played to good houses”
during the year just closed. Balance-sheet (with a liberal
allowance for depreciation) shows £4610 profit in con-
nection with three meetings—despite the giving away of
£6085 in prize-money and an expenditure of £4762 on
improvements.
• * * *
V.A.T.C. June meet at Caulfield, Saturday,
was responsible for loss of some good nags. In Toolam-
bool Hurdlea, Pilgrim States broke his shoulder and
Seaman his neck ; while Wanda ’Chase saw the death of
Risdon.
* * * *
“ What price Emir ? ” said the far-seeing punter
to the Hook-nosed. The Hook-nosed removed the cigar to
the other side of his face and burst forth: “We’ll have
the whole blanky alphabet jiggin’ soon. First we gets
T. 8., then T.M.S., F. J.A., and now you come along with
yer M.R. Why don’t someone call his bloomin’ nags
1.0. U., P.N. or Pay Up. I don’t know this M.R. yer
want to back, but I’ll lay four to one against they cow 1 ”
* * * *
C. Jenkins tops all M.L. winning jockeys’ per-
formances with 83 successes.
* * * *
Horse owners in these days do not seem to hold
the strength of their convictions as firmly as did the men
of old. In the fifties and sixties matches between noted
“ flyers ” were as plentiful as rice at a wedding. To-day
such events happen about as often as a cat voluntarily
goes to sea. As a matter of truth, horse-racing is
becoming less of a “ sport,’’ and more of a fleecing busi-
ness, every day.
» * * *
Sultan of Johore’s newly-acquired Rapid Pil-
grim went out second favorite for Richmond Handicap
at V.R.O. meet, Saturday, but first choice, Undecided
(starting 3 to I—a point shorter than R.P.), beat the
Malay potentate’s nag by half a head. Rapid Pilgrim is
unfortunate. Heavily backed for V.R.O. Birthday Oup,
t’other day, he ran third, half a head behind second
horse, between whom and winner there was only a head.
* » * *
When the big chronograph was first presented
to the V.R.O. for the information of Flemington race-
goers, it was intended more as a business “ ad.” for the
late Thomas Gaunt, the old-time Bourke-street horolo-
gist, than anything else. Since then it has become an
institution. John Trowbridge, Gaunt’s brother-in-law,
devised the first Flemington chronograph. The most
intricate feature is the extra-fine-toothed intergearing—
the wheels in which have teeth up to 300, of minute
exactness. They consist of three circular layers of
ebonite, ivory, and gun-metal, placed and cut together,
the teeth being so fine as to be barely distinguishable to
the naked eye. These work into similar wheels in the
reverse position, the brass wheel working into the
ebonite, and so on—thus the fifths of seconds are
registered. During the past 25 years the famous
speed-recorder has undergone many mechanical changes
for the better. It is started by electricity on the latest
plan, but its correctness is entirely dependent on the
smartness (and coolness) of the man who sets it going,
and the man who stops it. If the man who starts is
anticipatory at the nerve centre, or the man beside the
judge gets excited over a close finish, the time suffers.
The V.R.O. official timekeeper is only interested in his
“art”—a truly difficult one, requiring a cool nerve,
quick eye, and splendid judgment, and the racing itself
doesn’t interest him in the least.
* * * *
Dual success (Park Stakes and Shorts Handicap)
of 3-year-old filly Lady Brockleigh (Brockleigh—Fly) at
Canterbury (Sydney), Saturday (with crack lightweight
W. H. Smith up), was scored in fine form, and so deci-
sively as to make it worth keeping an eye on her in future
engagements. Lady Brockleigh’s sire was a fine per-
former, and will be remembered as an A.J.O. Epsom
winner.
* » * »
Apropos continued successes and high quality
of nags with Musket strain in them. Not generally
known that before Maoriland Stud Co. got him,
Musket was in Waikato district as a sire for light harness
and carriage horses.
* * * *
Among many things told of recently deceased
Mr. T. S. Hall (Mount Morgan) is that he kept Rock-
hampton Jockey Club going for many years, and made
that body’s meetings the best out of Brisbane. Thirteen
years since, when leaving that centre, Mr. Hall provided
a committee with a big sum of money to arrange and
carry out a week’s amusement for the people of the
place, and they had a high old time, business being
suspended the while. Also said that Mr. Hall liberally
subsidised that big regatta carnival on the Fitzroy in
1888, when Hanlan and Trickett rowed for a valuable
stake.
* • * *
One thing that does much to injure boxing is
the short-sighted managerial policy which requires
people who have already paid admission-money to throw
in coins for the boys who put up the preliminary scraps.
A man who pays ss. for a front seat is now blackmailed—
for it is nothing else—into subscribing to the “ shower ”
or, what is worse still, the hat is taken round to each
individual spectator by the lads who put up the fight.
Considering that dozens of lads jump at the chance of
pounding each other into insensibility for half-a-sovereign
apiece, the meanness of the average boxing management
is beneath contempt.
* * * *
Since bis last fight — beating blacksmith Taylor
—some good judges are tipping Bill Heckenberg as
possible champion on grounds that he improves
with every match and owns a dirty left (also
none too clean a right, though it isn’t as unclean as it
might be). Certainly Scanlan knocked the axeman out
in the second round of their fight, which might happen
to a Jeffries or a Fitzsimmons if he left himself open.
What the onlooking crowd thought of matters up to the
landing of the fatal punch was demonstrated clearly by
the fact that where 5 to 2 was freely offered before hos-
tilities began there was no even money at the conclusion
of the first round. Heckenberg wants to meet black
dude Felix now, and it would be a good match physically,
but the colored man has the greater stock of skill, which
might or might not be balanced by Heckenberg’s superior
force and greater capacity to take thump.
* * * *
Apropos the knock-out punch. In the sedate
pages of the British Medical Journal Dr. James Gray
Duncanson discusses the knock-out blow of pugilism.
He says a flush hit straight on the nose will knock a man
down, but there is not the same collapse as when a man
receives a hard sharp blow on “ the symphysis of the
lower maxiliary bone.’’ He goes on to show that the
knock-out blow invariably puts a man out of court, even
when he is in perfect condition and otherwise going
strong, but is practically never fatal. The blow “sud-
denly twists the muscles of the head and neck, and thus
disturbs the semi-circular canals of the ears, which have
to do with the maintenance of the equilibrium.”
* * * *
“Jab”: A writer in Melbourne Sportsman
contends that boxers nowadays know more about the
game than men who have gone before. Rats! Boxing
is an absolutely lost art these times. Among the hun-
dreds now following the game—to the dozens in evidence
less than 20 years ago—there isn’t a possible Foley, Jack-
son or Griffo. Those who saw Dan Creedon oppose
champion Billy M‘Call, at Sydney National Sporting
Club, were electrified by his skill. Dan is the only one
of those who fought in Australia a dozen or more years
ago still going.
* * » •
Sydney Gaiety A.C. has matched axeman Bill
Heckenberg and elongated pot-hatted black bruiser Felix
to fight five weeks hence. A good match physically, as
both exceed 6ft. and are lengthy-legged and long-reached
Thew and aggressiveness are with the white, and the
black chap will have the bulk of the science and show
most style. If Felix doesn’t settle Heckenberg in the first
few minutes the son of Ham will go perilously near
defeat, for Heckenberg owns a good left now, and has
power and stamina enough to out-fight half-a-dozen like
Felix, who made so poor a show against “ slogger of the
seas” Tom Ball in Sydney. Heckenberg is a better man
than Ball. Success against Felix would put the axe-wielder
on the same plane as champion M’Call, Doherty James
and co.
* * * *
Bantam pug supremacy of the continent was
decided at Sydney Gaiety A. 0., Saturday night, between
slim Queenslander, Mick Raff, and stocky-built Corn-
stalk, Ted Green. Raff showed superior skill, but Green’s
forceful rushes, though dodged and stopped occasionally
were too frequent, and the left and right swings he hurled
on Raff’s ribs, jaw, chin, and stomach were fatal. Raff
stood the banging well till the fourth round saw him
knocked down twice and spread-eagled beyond recovery.
'Twill take a good man to squelch Green.
* * * *
“A White Australia!” Gunga Brahm recently
beat Buttan Singh for 'rastling supremacy of the Com-
monwealth. In Coolgardie (W.A.) t’other day a whit*
man was seen “shining” an Afghan’s boots.
• * * *
“ Hammerlock ” : Concerning dead wrestler
Harry Dunn : At 15 he was champion lightweight of his
county (Cumberland) and 16 saw him middleweight
premier. Sixteen vears ago Dunn defeated Englishman
Tom Cannon in Melbourne for the five styles world ■
supremacy. Their two matches were sensational.
Cannon, winning choice of opening style in first, °bose
Graeco-Roman, and, getting the “ garotte ” on early, had
Dunn so limp that he couldn’t go on. Second match saw
Dunn get choice of styles and win with his favorite
(Cumberland) method. Cannon then named Grajco-
Roman. They writhed and wriggled till suddenly the
umpire gave a fall to Dunn, but Cannon .vehemently
objected, and most onlookers protested noisily. Dunn
agreed to go through it again. Cannon was beside him-
self with rage and rushed madly, when Dunn, quick as a
flash, threw his man a flying buttock and “ a fall.’
Cannon kicked again, but it was no use, and, declining
to go further, he forfeited supremacy to Dunn. Deceased
athlete was not quite 40 and a fine sample of physical
manhood till he got on the down grade.
* * * *
Specialists in language say that Voliva, the
representative in Australia of Dowie with the Purple
Wings, can easily beat John Norton in vituperation.
Couldn’t a match be arranged by one of the clubs for a
big purse, best out of 20 rounds of remarks ?
* » * *
Competition for amateur billiards premiership
of N.S.W. began, at Sydney National S.C., Tuesday last,
and ended Monday, this week. Numerically, entrants
didn’t reach expectations, nor for the most part were
they of particularly high quality. Champions of last and
previous years (Belfield and Rumball respectively) stood
out far ahead of their fellow contestants, and met in the
final (1500 up), Saturday and Monday. First night’s play
saw Belfield, at one stage, 388 to t’other’s 181, but at
half time figures were only 387 to 350 in Belfield’s favor.
Resuming, Belfield seemed to go to pieces, and Rumball
reached the points for the night (750) with an unfinished
59, 148 ahead. Best breaks were : Belfield, 131 and 48;
Rumball, 35, 37, 75, 36, 33, 31, 69, 33, and 59 unfinished.
Resuming Monday, Rumball failed to add to his 59, and
play was depressingly slow for some time. By and bye
Belfield put on a superb break of 129 ; just before this
scores were 960 to 824 against him. Interval saw Rumball
with 1145 (in play) to Belfield’s 1080. Subsequently
Rumball fell off as did Belfield the previous night, and
lastnamed improved considerably—he caught Rumball at
1189 and went right ahead, ultimately winning by 170.
Greatest runs were : Belfield, 40, 129, 30, 41, 71, 56 and
54 ; Rumball, 27, 23, 26, 20, 51, 23 and 23.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Amateur Athletic Association is a
slow body. On Oct. 6t,h, 1902 —eight months ago—at
Bathurst, W. O’Reilly put up two records (161 b. hammer-
throw to 151 ft. lin., and 161 b. shot 44ft. 3in.), and these
records weren’t passed by the governing body till last
week.
* * * *
Pigeon-shooting matches, as regularly carried
on, are a cruel sport everywhere ; and Governor Cherm-
side’s insult to the sport at Rockhampton should spread
to other quarters. The brute in man now chiefly shows
itself in “ sport.”
» * * *
Rev. Mullineaux, who captained the last Eng-
lish Rugby team to Australia, states that N.S.W. Rugby
Football Union has approached the English authorities re
an English Rugby team visiting Australia ; and the cleric
is also anxious to take a team to Maoriland—provided
the gates, guarantees, etc., are satisfactory. The rev.
gent wasn’t a bad captain, and was a broad-minded
sport. A genuine English Rugby rep. team under his
management would be welcome.
* * * *
M.L. Rugby team to visit Australia next month
comprises 22 men of repute. Backs number 10 (average
weight 11.5) and forwards 12 (average weight 13.4£).
Former, on the whole, do not quite please some Maori-
landers in Sydney, but forwards are voted exceptionally
good, and equal physically to the best M.L. has ever sent
over. Auckland has seven representatives, then come
five Canterbury, four Otago, three Wairarapa, two Wel-
lington, and one Southland. Lightest of backs is 10.4,
and among them are three over 12st. Least weighty of
forwards is 12.6, while five scale 13st. and over, and three
14st. or more. Veteran Duncan (here six years since) is
in. Best of the backs include fore-fronters Kiernan,
Asher (Maori), D. and R. M'Gregor, Wallace, and Wood.
The forwards embrace powerful players Armstrong,
M’Minn, Udy, Tyler, John Spencer, and B. Fanning.
* * * *
The fixtures of the M.L. Rugby football team
have at last been arranged, the first match against
N.S.W. taking place on July 18th. Altogether there are
ten matches in five weeks, including travelling to
Bathurst, Maitland, and through to Brisbane. The pro-
gramme is calculated to knock the visitors out
by the time the representative match against Australia is
held at S.C.G. on August 15. The matches against
Western and Northern districts should be dropped,
and the final match against the Combined Country
team left for the pick of the country teams to
prove their prowess. From the spectator’s point of view
the programme is satisfactory, since there’s a chance of
seeing the visitors play twice a week at least; but it will
require exceptional stamina and real grit to successfully
stand the knocking about consequent upon such a heavy
campaign. The rush for gate receipts has caused the
mulling of what promised to be a most successful visit.
* * * *
So far, there is little between contending Sydney
senior Rugby teams in point of play. Eastern Suburbs is
top of the lot with 13 points to North Sydney’s 11. and
Glebe and Newtown are bracketed 10 each. Past two
Saturdays saw Eastern Suburbs (holding highest position)
account for South Sydney (bottom of the list) by one goal
only each time. Two successive matches between ’Var-
sity and Glebe are similar. Saturday week saw former
triumph (15 to 3), and next meeting (20th inst.) resulted
in favor of Glebe. Though Eastern Suburbs only beat
South Sydney by one goal in each of the two matches
referred to, its prospects for the season’s premiership
are very rosy, while South Sydney hasn’t a hope of
winning.
* * * •
“ 8.C.” : Still does the unfortunate umpire pro-
vide gaiety and gore for that portion of the nation which
patronises football. The latest fool to take the contract
on appeared at Brunswick (Vic.), where, in a 77th rate
competition, the local “biffbangs” met the visiting
“ tear-’em-downs.” The game, though wild and woolly,
proved quite incapable of satisfying the jaded appetites
of local barrackers. Those gentle lambs thereupon
swarmed on to the ground and played the umpire. When-
ever that sportsman awarded a free kick to either side
he got freely kicked himself by the opposition. In the
end, he ran for his life to the nearest police station, hotly
pursued by a howling horde, which gave him a free kick
whenever it got near enough. The lower-grade varieties
°l V 1 can only be fitly umpired one way. There
■hould be ten umpires, each with a maxim gun, and it
should be understood that even if the umpires slay both
asked m ° St ° f tbe spectators * no questions will be
* * * •
Seventh Victoria-N.S.W. lacrosse match, in
Melbourne, Saturday, saw home team brilliant always
and easily better than the visitors throughout, though
Z- * ld Y vas an improvement on any the same State
had previously sent against Victoria. Victorian showing
® X n C H len K 1 flne 11 catc bing, fast running, long throw*
first rinss u > r ° Ve xll ?, Ulck exc hanges (so essential to
lacrosse) held attention. It was a one-sided
If.^i h l l^ ria w ° n by u 2O £° a,s t 0 !), and would, under
usual conditions, have been depressing, but the winners’
magnificent exhibition sustained interest from end to
end. _ Such combination among forwards has never been
ia be,or ®-P Ia y ° f Gay, Moulton, and Dunn
being specially conspicuous. N.S.W. men were badly
baffled every time-couldn’t fathom the suiorise th.
opposition sprung upon them. Great deficiency of losJrs
was lack of knowledge of passing-even their best player
on the day (Ward) has something to learn in that con
nection. curi
* *
A sporting ©vent is the egg-laying com™
tition being decided in Adelaide. All the birdf havJbeen
taken to the Reformatory—why hens should be taken m
a Reformatory it is hard to say. The sporting element
comes in with the amazing reversals of form possible in
an event which takes 12 months to decide A schoni
master’s pen of fowls is at present (about quarter-timei
almost out of sight with an immense lead, but other,
with a hitherto almost blank record are doing astonishing
things every week now the cold and wet have set in whi S
the leaders have almost “shut up”; so that anything
may happen before all these hens come into the straight
at the end of next summer for the final sprint home. *
* * * * ’
Australian Waterloo Cup, at Rooty Hill w
week, under N.S.W. National Coursing Association’s
management, proved biggest success the State has
known. Crowds were greater each day, dogs better and
more representative, and there were bigger “books” on
the outcome—volume of betting was a record. Victorian
champions—The Hermit, Gold Bar, Army Girl, Leontine
Tribune—and those dividers (little sisters Verse and
Planet) of a previous Waterloo Cup were engaged ■ and
heavily-backed N.S.W. top-notchers Great Heart (winner
of N.S.W. Derby and Challenge Stakes, 128 dogs last
year, and Orange Cup this season), We Two (winner of
last Champion Cup), Rowland (runner-up to Great Heart
in Orange Cup), and crack of three years past, Braddon’a
Blot, also competed. Ultimate winner, Kilronan waa
among the outsiders at the reading of the card before
opening round, and, on night prior to concliidino- stages
when only three were left in, he was the outsider •Mo
laying even money Great Heart, 7 to 4 Gold Bar,’and
offered 5 and 6 to 1 against Kilronan. People in the
know who backed the dog early, worked off some, or all
of their coin before the finish, yet Kilronan beat every!
thing opposed to him handsomely.
**' * *
Kilronan, a big though not too impressive
second season dog by Kilmainham-Flora, was bred by
an Eastern (N.S.W.) District coursing enthusiast, who
gave him to a Gatton (Q.) priest, the present owner
His sire scooped the 1889 Waterloo Cup, and was by
Parnell from Kilmorna, and also a second season dog at
the time of his success. Speed, cleverness, and stamina
of the sire are conspicuous in the son, and were all
needed for the company he met. Kilronan’was brought
straight through from Q. to Sydney, arriving last Friday
—five days before he had to run—and after travelling 800
miles in the dog box of the train without stops. Trainer
Keighrey, who handled Kilronan, has had a dog in each
of three Waterloo Cups: first (Drinan Dhu>was among
last 4 of 64, second (Kilmainham) won, and third
(Kilronan) also got away with the prize.
* * * »
Arrangements have now been completed by the
Dunlop Tyre Co. as regards the Westralian test rime to
select the representative for the big Victorian event, to
be held on August 22nd, over the Warrnambool course.
The W.A. race will be over a course of 116 miles between
Beverley and Perth, and will take place about the 25th of
July or the first Saturday in August. The last race held
over this course was won by ex-Victorian A. Jewell, off
scratch. The rider establishing fastest time over the
Beverley-Perth course will have his expenses paid by the
Dunlop Co. to Victoria.
* * * *
First heat (Saturday) of Dunlop Co.’s supremacy
under auspices of N.S.W. Cyclists Union brought 15
competitors (representing three clubs) with 12 pacers.
Course was 22£m. Favorites (Redfern) won easily
(through Maidment) with northern suburbs next anil
Manly last. Hundred yards from finish Roose looked a
sure winner but he fell and broke his machine. Of first
six, four were Redfern men. Altogether nine clubs have
entered ; other six will figure in heats next month.
**** . „ i
The Sydney “Thousand” bike race, which
caused so much excitement last year, threatens to verge
into an annual reality. The date will be altered from
March to January, so that English, American and Con-
tinental riders, who may compete, will have plenty of
time to get back for their own racing season.' The syndi-
cate which controlled last year’s event—“ the Summer
Nights Amusement Committee,” whatever it mav be—
has the matter in hand, but it is to be hoped that the
management will be better, and that oversea visitors
will be firmly told that, because they came a long way
to take part, they aren’t going to run the show—a
state of things which has been allowed for a long time in
Australia.
* * * *
League of Wheelmen trouble now looks like
being amicably settled. Police-court action against
secretary Branagan for “breaking and entering and
stealing ” where and what, as secretary, he had a right
to, ended in smoke ; proceedings were withdrawn, and
the question of ownership of property, &c., is to be
decided by arbitration. Outcome will be an appeal to
the general body of members in th<B form of a fresh
election.
* * * *
Re “Ike” (6/6/’O3) on short rowing boats.
Inventor Chris. Neilson says he is satisfied that it wasn’t
the boat that beat N.S.W.’screw; and the fittings were not
his. It is only a matter of time when the good qualities
of short eights will be recognised. It took years to satisfy
rowing men that the short sculling boat was the thing.


GOLF GOODS IN EXCELSIS.
We desire to draw attention to a SPECIAL LINE of .
Nicholl’s Special Socket Golf Clubs.
S the sh d a?K S ?i? ts a r ,d . Mad . e by Experts Second growth selected Hickory used
sLas ,ne pt.™ eSe w '’ lle th ? t heads of all tl >e driving clubs are made of
vision of u T hhu ?, lub 13 manufactured under the personal super-
« loLhi 2aSf “ knOW ” fOT th,ir Ski “ “ «'“ b “‘ter3
These Clubs are recognised as the Longest Drivers in the World.
CANADA CYCLE & HOTOR CO., Ltd.,
357 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sports Department:
Branches in Every State.
YOU GET THE BEST VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY WHEN YOU
BUY A
REMINGTON
Double-Barrel .
Hammerless Gun
Thoroughly Guaranteed.
Kept n stock by the Largest Gun Stores in Melbourne and Sydney.
Remington Arms Company
Head Office: 315 BROADWAY, NEW YORK, U.S A.
A Nib,
A Bottle of Ink,
A Sheet of Paper,
and
LETTER BOOK
Makes a complete outfit
with which any man, wo-
man or child can write •
letter, and at the same
time make an exact copy.
From C. Plummer, Rutland Street, Auckland, N.Z.,
Straw Hat Manufacturer. August 18, 1902.
Two months* trial of the Pen Carbon Letter Boor obtained from you has satisfied u®
that your
p
EN
roduce
reserve
revent
G
ARBON
lean
(opies
onfusion
ETTER
egible
,asting
oss and
gOQKS
ills
|right
ad Language
Yours faithfully, C. PLUMMER.
The Pen Carbon Letter Book
Is a True and Valued Friend.
Sole Australasian r* nipil O- T + H SYDNEY.
Agents- EL. nlurl Oc OU., LIU. BRISBANE.
DON'T BEGIN THE SEASON BADLY.
If you want to be successful on the road, train persistently and select for your mount a
RED BIRD BICYCLE
NEW MODEL
1903.
It is strong, well made and speedy, and will carry many men this season to victory.
Do you desire to be one of them? If so, call and we’ll advise you how winning races is made easy.
Branches in every State. CrOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King' St., Sydney.
“ Ranger” Guns
made to our order by the Remington Arms
Co. Am.
Sale Old
Price Price.
No. 1, 12 bore, 30in. barrels ... £4 £5 10s
No. 3, with Ejector Mechanism £8 8« £lO
Scott’s Guns
D.8.8.L., 12 gauge.
Sale Old
No. 43970, for Pigeon Shooting £lB £2l
No. 46771, Pigeon, weight 7£lbs. £2O £24
No. 46794/5, Compensation Lever, .£2l £25
Ghas. Boswell’s Guns
are of the best quality,
largely used at the traps :
Sale Old
Price. Price.
With Hammers £l5 £lB
Hammerless ... £27 £4O
New Remington No 6
Take-down Rifle, Single
Shot.
Sale Price, 15s.
Old Price, 20s.
REVOLVERS
Webley’s No. 2
320 cal.
Sale Price, 40s.
Old Price, £2 10s.
Webley’s No M.P.
450 cal.
Sale Price, 455.
Old Price. £2 15s.
I. Hollis & Sons’
D.8.8.L., with Hammers.
Sale Old
Price Price
No. 6721, Twist Barrels, &c.... £3 10s £4 10s
No. H. 205, Bar-action, &c. ... £4 10s £5
No. H. 206, Treble Bolt ... £5 £6
Single Barrel Collector’s Gun £2 5s £2 15s
Cashmore’s Guns
D.8.8.L., with Hammers. Have an untar-
nished reputation all over the World. Write
for a Descriptive Catalogue. Only a few left.
You will find Quotations for
many different makes of
GUNS- RIFLES
descriptions are not full, but
write for details to
McLean Bros. & Rigg
LIMITED,
who are selling off their entire
stock of everything. New pre-
~ mises in which to finish their
Clearing Sale have been leased
for a short time.
279 Lonsdale Street,
Melbourne.
Bull s Eye Rifle
for '22 cal. ammunition,
an accurate shooter and
well made in every respect.
Sale Price, 9s 6d
Old Price, 13s
Cartridges
Sale Old
Price. Price.
Cannonite ... 9s. 11s.
U.M.C. Nitro
Club ... 9s. 10s.
Southern Cross 7s. Bs.
Witton
(Rabbit) 6s. 7s.
McLEAN BROS. & RIGG, LTD.
279 LONSDALE STREET, MELBOURNE.
HAND-IN-HAND
forEICHTYYEARS
Williams'
Barbers' Bar.
WILLIAMS' Traveller's Shaving Stick.
You may worry thru a face
scrape on most “Any Old
Soap.” To enjoy the Luxury
of a Perfect Shave you must
use Williams’.
If you doubt it, send a penny
stamp for Williams’ Changing
Face Puzzle. Tells you why.
J. B. WILLIAMS CQ., Glas-
tonbury, Conn., U.S.A. Also
382 Clarence Street, Sydney.
S H ARPSHOO TIN 6
For Sport and War.
By W. W. CREENER.
HITS THB MARK I
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, i/. nett. :
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published,
IF you wish to get -good work and value
you should purchase W.W. GREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to —
C. W. BUCK LAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne,
(Greener’s Representative).
Horace Tozer, Queensland Agent-General,
says that he was compelled by the oppressive
Immigration Restriction Aot to intimate to six
men, engaged to go to Charters Towers on account
of their “ special expert knowledge ” in the matter
of round brick shafts, that they wouldn’t be
admitted to Australia, and, therefore, there being
no expert knowledge available in Australia, the
shafts won’t be constructed. As the law specially
provides that men of the kind Tozer describes
shall be admitted, it looks as if Horace was, in
this case, an especially pernicious and addle-
headed ass. But Tozer’s salary and billet depend
on the Queensland Government, and just now any
slander or misrepresentation of the Common-
wealth authority tends to make Tozer’s billet
more secure.
(Rev.) J. N. WILLIAMS, Tarentum, Allegheny
Co., Pa., writes:
“ Thirty years ago a physician told me I would soon die
of consumption. I commenced to use Jayne’s Expector-
ant whenever troubled with colds or hoarseness, and it
has NEVER FAILED to bring relief.”*
Ernest Brodribb, the turf plunger of a few
years back, who died in England lately, didn’t
have to toil for the money which he “played up.’ ?
The Brodribbs had a comparatively small sheep
run in the dry, useless and horrible Far West
(N.S.W.) when Broken Hill was discovered ; and
like most of the other squatters and managers
they got a large leg-in—they were the only people
on the spot with cash to buy syndicate shares.
The Brodribbs’ holding, Poolamacca, was handiest
to Broken Hill, so when the first smelting
furnace was blown in it was Mrs. Brodribb who
“performed the ceremony.” The late W. R.
Wilson, who established St. Albans, was set on
his turf career the same way ; likewise David
James, winner of a few of Australia’s biggest
events. But James wasn’t a squatter ;he was a
teamster and station tank-sinker.
Careful and unprejudiced inquiry in the realm
of modern medical science shows there is no better
curative and cleansing agent than the Thermal Bath.
The “Century” Thermal, sold by Mr. A. Troup, of
Royal Arcade, Melb., has already had its praises sung by
the medical faculty, and hundreds of grateful beneficiares.
And the number of grateful ones increases rapidly, for
whereas the general public in the old days merely talked
casually of Turkish baths from hearsay, every person who
has experienced the inexpensive domestic luxury of a
Thermal Bath becomes an enthusiastic advocate thereof.
Mr. Troup will send pamphlets and testimonials on
application.*
“ D.” writes from Camden (N.S.W.) :
Lieutenant Col. Onslow, of Camden Park, Camden,
writes to the Sydney Telegraph (2/6/’O3) stating that
"one” of the six branches of the “Reform” League in
the Camden electorate had asked him to accept nomina-
tion as its candidate, and he had replied that he would
contest the seat if selected by all the branches of the
league in the electorate. The Macarthur Onslow holds a
great Government grant in the electorate, extending
from Menangle to Camden, and about 150 voters are serfs
on the estate, or small tenants. Further, the neighbor-
ing towns of Camden (where the Onslow is Mayor) and
Menangle bow down in the dust when one of the family
passes by. The parson is dependent on the Onslows, so
are the storekeepers, postmaster, police, and the inspec-
tor of nuisances. Also the publicans, kept by the wages
of Onslow’s serfs, must “barrack” for him. So he
tells Camden and the five branches of the league that
have not yet humbly addressed him that he' is ready to
be humbly addressed. The representative of six square
miles of country, granted to his grandfather by an idiotic
Governor, where the workers lift their hats and rush to
open the gates as his carriage dashes past—he is ready to
stand as the People’s Reform candidate.
I7IOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
- ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “Ellis’ King Street Coffee Palace,”
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor — GEO. IF. ELfylS.
Bishop Webber, broken down and seeking
a coadjutor, has practically killed himself over the
building of a colossal cathedral in Brisbane. It
was in his thoughts morning, noon, and night. If
he dined with friends, or friends with him, the
burden of talk was the cathedral. In hotels,
he was as bad. Sometimes, when paying an hotel
bill, he would ask Boniface to refund a guinea
“for the cathedral.” He went to England and
dunned everybody. He returned to Queensland
as anxious as Again he started for England
and dunned afresh. When Queen Victoria died,
he called on tired Queensland and the rest of the
world to build his cathedral as a memorial. When
the Duke of York visited Australia he induced
the young man to lay a stone, and again shouted
to tired Queensland. Responses were slow and
small. The Bishop is a bachelor —which may
partly account for the monomania of the cathe-
dral.
IF NEGLECTED,
Whooping cough leads to more serious diseases.
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy will keep’ the
cough loose, allay the irritation, and counteract
any tendency towards pneumonia. It always
cures, and cures quickly. Is. 6d.*
The Sydney Sunday Retired Grocer .con-
tinues to bray about the exodus from Australia
owing to Labor legislation.. That there is an
exodus of landless farmers from Australia is l true
—they can’t get land worth having until the big
estates are cut up. But the Sunday rag professes
to believe that Australian farmers are flying' from
Australia because they can’t afford to pay l the
remuneration demanded by the Minimum Wage
Act and Arbitration Courts. The Sunday organ
apparently doesn’t know that neither Wages
Board in Victoria nor Arbitration Court in
N.S.W. has ever interfered with the wages paid
to agricultural laborers. Recently, when a squad
of Victorian farmers went to look for land in. Ta-
smania another paper, very like the Sydney
Retired Grocer (Launceston Examiner), gravely
assured the community that they were dri' >- out
by the minimum wage and the land-tax. Th are
never was a legal agricultural minimum wage,
and no Victorian with less than (40 acres, pays
any land-tax, but the good old - erviceable lie
came in just the same.
n
d
s te
te* c
\V>' S
c^
V3i e
m
ocmTl _
iniTHiL.
a
Dunlop Kelly Solid Rubber
Vdiide Tyres
For Economy & Comfort:
d
C
SeO'
iot + . *» y,IC
.OP'* j , se»
** **l»*»*Lr- V d-
ojSfr^
t5 teS
j&w
5^
xt\®
Voo*
3®
i®
a*®
Sydney
House—
-150 Clarence Street*


A,
ft
<?
ft
Sr
fC
C>
ABOUT
n
OGDEN'S
A
\9 3
?gol|*
J *
r?.
m
a
y?i
A
i
M
->
:?4
3!L>
M
Beware of Imitations
* J
■r a
r ,
m
British made
British’labour
dxcuv* you -tfl&n you d/uxu/ tPi&nv !
j
Mildness.
The great charm about GUINEA
GOLD CIGARETTES is their delightful
mildness.
They are mild, and yet at the same
time possess a satisfying—although deli-
cate-flavor.
This combination is obtained through
the selection and use of the best of
thoroughly matured leaf and the are
taken in manufacture.
British-American Tobacco Co., Ltd.
Ogden Branch).
45 York Street, Sydney.
Even the stodgy Pootra brain moves.
After the Vic. Citizens Reform League Council
had finished blathering about Fedors', extrava-
gance and wailing about the awfnl cost of the
High Court, the High Commissioner, and other
things it didn't understand, oki man Bishop—one
of its biggest tari feathers —arose and remarked
casually that “many people thought the rime was
ripe for unification. and that the Federal Govern -
men: should be capable of governing the whoie of
the States. . . . Trie time was about ripe to do
away with the State Governments altogether. '
“ Nereid ‘ writes :
Be par. Brnsnj (25 t"QBX tuHiae Estate : Are you
richt in sayinr tbs was sold by one Hayes to Wentworth ?
Some years ago. in Sydney, a scsj of Etas Layceck. ei-
chanßpwc sculler. sold me that his grandfather once
owned 'ie property socr years aod loss it to the
original Wentworth- father of FtTXwiEam Chino, in a
game of endure. Tbe stakes were Vaaolnse Estate Lay-
codhs) and oid Howebwfe Racecourse. MH acres iWert-
wortfa’sl Wentworth won in a carter on last deal and
got conveyance of pre-perry. Both estates would be
hameless at that time, being" too ou tut. The overland
journey to Tadae was risky, as the route swarmed
with escaped patriots infesting the thick smuts. Hctte-
losfc Racecourse was cut up in the S-'s and offered fee
sale. Is is ssL. in the w eatwurth family. H-.ii. deceased,
wfer. occupied the aid Tandae man-son. patrolled she
foreshore all day oe Sundays to prevent us w oolliwnnftao
water rats from stealing oysters. With hedge down dree
in shore, within easy ran re fee 'tosh parties, we hurled
doatoo, beer beetles enr-ty ard water me Joe rind a'
hum Boctl-es thrown sc "the rooks burst hie shrapet,
and were effector*. He repced with maledoorious lad
rocks. and aooniret so nodi practice that re became
erpert: a fosman worthy of 'our steeL sc tc speak.
Been;«e he was a someth:se-is-law Wentworth's, and
had the job of resident caretaker rent free, he thought be
owned every ns* in she bay front Bottle uni Glass tc
Parsley Head. Ee taught my generattoo cf dingey orews
bew to rwear.
“T.D.”: The Bulletin correspondent
•'2od'o3 is quite right about the sixpenny rest&n-
rant. providing be takes only the juicy steak or
the succulent c-bop; bet if be fancies “ stoo “ for
dinner, he’s likely to get what the other fellow
left at breakfast. At the average os. house they
give yon so little that yoa don't leave anything
to make “ stoo ~ oat of.
The average Aastralian person pats himself
to moch labor, and wear and tear of his best
clothes, on account of the National Anthem and
rises from his seat at theatre or concert h&L.
every time the arrival or departure of a Governor
is announced bv the old familiar hymn tone. It
is an unwilling act of " loyalty,'' performed under
the delusion that the custom comes from Ome.
As a matter of fact, the tune aforesaid, in an
ordinary way, commands no show of reverence
from the general pebbe in England. The com-
manding officer *t Sheffield barracks lately issued
a notice to the effect that visitors will no longer
be admitted on Sundays " umess greater ree-te-
nition is paid to the National Anthem." He
complains that only uve visitors out of 2>»l*or
thereabouts raise their hats when “ God Save the
Kin j- E is played at the conclusion of a military
band perform sn-te.
VEP.Y PREVALENT.
Inuuettza is always more or less prevalent at
this season erf the "year. This disease is very
similar to a severe cold, and if allowed to take
its cocrse is liable to cause serious results. The
best treatment for influenza is to avoid exposure,
and take Chamberlain's Cocgh Remedy. This
medicine gives immediate relie*. and. it used as
directed, will ward cS all dangerous consequences.
It leaves the system in a natural snd health v con-
dition. It alwavs cures, and cures qcicklv.
Is. 6d.*
FREE TRIAL
for 90 Days.^~^
Not a penny down. Simply drop me a postal card,
with yoar came and address and I aid forward too ai
once one of my latest Improved High-Grade Electric
Bel*-. You can use it for three months, titen pay me if
eared, and the price will be only half what others ask for
their inferior belts. If not cured, you can return the Belt to ire. at my expense, and
YOL K WORD WILL DECIDE lam willing to truss yoa entirely, knowing that I
have the Best and Moss Perfect Belt used in Australia to-day, and nine men in ten
aiwavs pav when cured.
I WILL TRUST YOU.
This modem Belt .*— * c ..Csi p?.-:so j s*'~i ,e e* r n* e—:,^i, It will cure ad
cases of Rnenmsttsm. Yirieocele. Indigestion. Lumbago, Weak Back. Kidney, Liver and
Stomach Complaints. Nervousness, sr.: all Weaknesses of Men and Women.
FREE
A beautiful iHustrated Medical Book, which should be read bv all weak men. This
will be sent Free, sealed in plain wrapper, all enaiges prepaid. It is free, and can be had
for the asking.
Ik® t neglect this splendid opportunity to retrain tout health. We will make a
written diagnosis of your case Free. Write To-day. ’
The Dr. J. fl. Austin Electric Co.^eLH
49 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
/-y r “
h'X.J
( • V
fe
mi—
HERR RASSMLSSEN
r® ra*rsnte« to care Ven«s " e*k-
B*«cd Disease Pil«* Rl*«i**-
* = CwpaJeoc* Li'tf ffiJ k *inoT
routes. H* wtIV seoJ his Book Free.
„ A n wffl be beU
WEAK, NERVOUS MEN, WHY SUFFER
\* " HENtdc c&n be quickly sad cored bv tikiap Herr Rissaussen's ALFALHfE Vitality Pills -which have cured so many
\ \ tbocsaad suferers from DEBILITY. POOR MEMORY. WEAK SPINE. DESPONDENCY. and all which robs Manhood of that which
* i* dearfe. to is N_ .a. Streritth. Eerr E-issurussen wi — cusrantee tr:~ Temedv to euro evert ease. do natter ot bow brjf standing, and he will
give h ssldDed advice personally to ail parrots? of bis rsieiias FREE OF CH ARGE eithir -in ris c£m or bv pest So don't despair, but
mnaaMsto with him without de_ay. do matter w'en? yoa live. Treatment ty Post a Speciality. Pamphlet sent Free.
ALT ALINE VITALITY PILLS. Boxes. 65.: Courses. 235. 6d.. posted.
Blood and Skin Diseases BI od Disorders. Diseases of the Urinary Organs. Gravel. Stone in the Bladder, and Blood
• i =r 1
ALP ALINE BLOOD PILLS Boxes. 65.: Courses, 235. 6d. posted.
Anaemic Women aad Otherwise affected. should at cmce communicate with HERB
it His nicking eiper.ence is at their service. and h-.s
ALF ALINE UNIVERSAL PILL?a wLi cure them. Boxes. 3s; Courses. 235. 6d,
UVER and KIDNEY TROUBLES cured at once by the ALF ALINE LIVER and KIDNEy PlLLS.'Boxes la
H ” W^*T^ C **o r| d-fa.med. and his PILE POWDERS never fAJI . 6a per box each
The ALF ALINE REA? ".DIAS can eelj beobsaiaed from ... f* aim _
Hen- Rassmusseu’s Head Office- w 47 (jreoro'e St., SydneV,
AXD HIS BRANCHES AS FOLLOW-
BRISBANE: 309 Qz^e n St.
MELBOURNE 150 Bourse St.
ADELAIDE: 15 PuLeney St.
N-Z. = 91 Lambion Quay, WeilizgtoiL
W.A., PERTH ■ 481 Hay St
KALGOORLIE - 111 Haaast St.
FREMANTLE = 117 High St-
BOULTER CITI'- Piesse St.


Civilisation is constantly discovering new
methods of death. Latest is the suffocation of a
lad on the Hunter River (N.S.W.) through in-
haling the noxious fumes from the exhaust pipe of
an oil launch. -
King Solomon’s Mines, that fabulous place
Heaped up with precious stone.
Poor |Warice, even, cannot trace
Or claim it for her own.
There’s something wanting more than wealth
To happiftess secure.
Cure four cough, enjoy good health—
Take Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
“R.S.A.” : Had a bad attack of diphtheria
once. The doctor gave me but small hopes of
recovering, and prescribed an evil-smelling gargle,
to be used frequently to dislodge the black phlegm
in the throat. This gargle smelt worse than a
decayed snake. To save argument I poured a
little of the vile stuff away regularly, and, in
place of it, used ginger ale, which always loosened
the phlegm and gave me great relief. The doctor
said the gargle saved my life.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wopnds that Discharge or otherwise. perhapa sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when yon
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remerjjes you have tried, which, if not extracted, yon
never cajt.recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerate&jthe same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be difcbloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE Y$)U. I don't say perhaps ; but 1 WILL. Becauss
others have failed is no reason for not how being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT'S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions; and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
he. Price, in Great Britain, l/ljd. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents: iX 1.1.1 OTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for theregistered trade mark of the Grasshopper on •
green lafel on each box. (Regd. copyrighM.
HOW DO YOU
MEASURE VALUE ?
Sl&i.
■*v
■*Z
>a\
Marjorie
C
A
M
P
B
E
L
L
12 Reynolds Street, Balmain,
v; Sydney, October 3rd, 1902.
Dear Sirs My little daughter, Mar-
jorijs, eleven months old lay at death’s
door, fjrom an attack of Whooping Cough.
While in this condition, measles also attacked
her, and all who saw her despaired of her life.
Just then, we were recommended to try Scott’s
Emulsion. From the first dose, it agreed with
her, and, continuing to give it, we had the
satisfaction of seeing her regain health and
strength and become the fine child you see her
now by her picture. Scott’s Emulsion, without
doubt, saved her life. Faithfully yours,
(Signed) Mart A. Campbell.
Messrs. Scott & Bownb, Ltd.,
483 Kent-street, Sydney.
HOW DO YOU MEASURE
VALUE when the question to be faced is
the question of your child’s health attacked
by illness ? It is a piteous sight to see medicine
given which only adds to the distress of the
sufferer. Now, if you measure value by what is
accomplished, Scott s Emulsion stands at the
top of all values in certain illnesses. One
who has seen the cure performed has just told
you about it. We will not tell you anything
more about the illnesses ; you have seen the
sufferings they cause. What we will tell you
is how to avoid these sufferings, or how to put a
stop to them : Give
SCOTT'S EMULSION. >y i„ a,.
one great fact by which you can measure the
value of what we say and the cure that is
produced. You need only to know that if
measles or whooping cough or any of the
other more serious diseases of child-life
attacks anyone belonging to you, Scott s
Emulsion will give you the highest value
it is possible to obtain from curative agents.
It acts promptly, cures thoroughly. It has
cured measles and pneumonia in every country
of the globe. It will cure equally well in
Australia. You have ope precaution only to
take ; and that is to see that on the wrapper
of the bottle there is a picture of a man carry-
ing a big cod-fish ; if that cod-fish is not there,
you are not getting what we promise you—-a
cure ! You can obtain a sample of Scott’s
Emulsion and the choicest children’s booklet
of the year, “ A Bunch of Roses,” beautifully
printed in colors, by sending sd. to Scott &
Bowne, Ltd., 483 Kent Street, Sydney, and
mentioning this paper. All chemists sell
Scott’s Emulsion.
THE KIDNEYS ARE THE CLEANSERS
For a person to enjoy good health it is essential that the blood be kept free from all contamina-
tion. It must be purified by the kidneys and liver. As the blood flows through the veins it becomes
laden with certain matter which has been used up by the tissues. When the blood, in the course of
its circulation, reaches the kidneys, the kidneys extract this waste matter and cause its removal from
the system. If the kidneys, from weakness or disease, are working feebly, a portion of this waste
matter remains in the blood and becomes actively poisonous. The kidneys of the average individual
filter and extract from the blood about three pints of urine in twenty-four hours. In this quantity of
urine should be dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten to twelve grains in weight of uric acid, together
with other animal and mineral matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly an ounce. These
are all solid substances, but they pass from the body in complete solution if the kidneys are working
efficiently. It is easy to realise the important functions which the kidneys perform. Unless the solid
substances are removed suffering must ensue. In fact, to the retention of these urinary poisons in the
system nine-tenths of all pain and sickness is due. Sometimes minute crystals of uric acid form
in the blood and are deposited in the joints and tissues of the body, thus causing the acute pa.n felt
when we have
RHEUMATISM, GOUT,
Lumbago, Neuralgia, Sciatica, &c. Sometimes the uric acid crystals, aggregating, together
in the kidneys, form Gravel and Stones, and cause Kidney Colic, and Irritation, and
Inflammation of the Bladder. When the kidneys are working perfectly we experience none
of these pains and disorders, as the causative poisons are then duly removed in a natural manner.
WARNER’S SAFE CURE
is an unfailing specific for all disorders of the kidneys and liver. It acts directly on those vital organ
in such a manner as to always restore them to vigorous health. So intimate is the relation between
the functions of the kidneys and those of the liver that it is essential, in order to cure any disorder of
either, that an agent should be employed which possesses an equally curative action, upon each. In
other words, when the kidneys are sick the liver is sick also, and the contrary is likewise true. The
supreme power possessed by Warner’s Safe Cure in the treatment of diseases of so, apparently,
diverse nature as Rheumatism, Gout, Lumbago, Neuralgia, Sciatica, Gravel. Stone,
Bladder Troubles, Blood Disorders, Indigestion, Biliousness, Jaundice, Sick Head-
ache, Anaemia and Debility, is entirely due to its ability to restore to health and robust activity
both the kidneys and the liver, when all urinary and biliary poisons are duly expelled from the system
as required by nature. The blood is then clean and we cannot suffer, as the cause of suffering is
removed.
The most common symptom of kidney disease is
PAIN IN THE BACK.
A surer test is to place some urine, passed the first thing in the morning, in a covered glass, and
let it stand until the next morning. If it is then cloudy or there is a brick-dust like sediment, if
particles float about in it, or it is of an unnatural colour, then the kidneys are not healthy and
Warner’s Safe Cure should be instantly resorted to or Bright’s Disease, Diabetes or some less
serious but more painful illness will surely result.
Mr. F. Elliott, of 52 Surrey Street, Darlinghurst, N.S.W., says:—
“ Having been a sufferer for over five years from kidney and bladder complaint, I went
to all the principal doctors in Sydney, Melbourne and New Zealand, and they all gave my case up as
hopeless. I got thin and lost my appetite. I kept getting worse every day, and often wished that I
could die. One day I read one of your books, and decided to try the effect of Warner’s Safe Cure in
my own case. I began to feel better after taking the first bottle. My appetite came back, and I
began to put on flesh. I took six bottles in all, and am now quite well.”
A treatise containing full particulars relating to Warner’s Safe Cure, and the diseases it cures,
together with accounts of many remarkable recoveries, will be sent free on application to H. H.
Warner and Co., Limited, Australasian Branch, Melbourne.
KODAK
KODOID
PLATES
the new flat films
Are as easy to manipulate as Glass,
LIGHTER,
THINNER,
SAFER
than Glass Plates.
are
Kodoid Plates
NON-HALATION,
ORTHOCHRGMATIC.
Used wherever Glass Plates are used.
Nearly 20 per cent, cheaper than
other cut films.
PRICES (per dozen): \ pi., 1/6. ax*, 2/4. i pi., 3/6.
Full Particulars of All Dealrrs or of . .
KODAK Ltd.,
PU,„ neMUm tit, Poper. 284 COLLINS STREET, Melbourne.
i
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’#
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
iIEaUMO
a
On Our Selection.” By “Steele Rudd
Price, 6a., Postage Bd., from The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Ltd., Sydney.
Most of the Tory papers complain that the Labor
party has never attempted to show how reduction
of members (of the Assembly) could possibly, as
the party alleges, be opposed to Labor representa-
tion. With one man one vote, these papers
allege, the party would have just as large a
representation, proportionately, as ever. The
Tory press knows well, though, that if the
Assembly were reduced to 60 members, there
would be a far poorer chance of abolishing the
now unnecessary Second Chamber. The gag
would be that, in view of the reduced membership
of the People’s House, we couldn’t be so dead-
sure that the House really represented the people;
also, as the quorum would be reduced, that a
mere handful of members might commit the
country to some extravagance. That is one
reason why the Labor party doesn’t howl with
the Telegraph and Joseph Carruthers, and
George Pile, and H. 8. Badgery, and the other
conspicuous “Reformers.” The Labor party
reckons that the number of members of Parlia-
ment should be reduced by reducing those who
don t represent anybody or anything—the mem-
bers who are mostly in Parliament because they
happened to be friendly with some dead-and-gone
politician, who himself would not now be able to
get into Parliament if he were alive and wanted
to get there. The Labor party wants to get rid
of those members first; and in so doing, it is
more of a Reduction party than its opponents.
4.
A North Queensland correspondent:—
Two of the central sugar mills erected under the Q.
Sugar Works Act were taken over by the Government
under the provisions of this Act. Notwithstanding the
sympathy of the Government staff appointed to manage
these concerns towards the cane-suppliers of the mills,
this is how the pro-nigger Queensland Government
penalises white labor at Proserpine (near Bowen). It is
necessary to keep the price of cane somewhat below
current rates in order to make good some of the financial
leeway that this mill company lost prior to Government
control, and consequently the assistance of the Federal
rebate on white-labor cane was hailed with delight by
the majority of the cane-suppliers. But those who used
white labor incurred the displeasure of the Philp Minis-
try. Assistance hitherto given was withheld, and those
who were obliged to finance on their crops to do
necessary replanting work were compelled to deal
with a local bank and pay 8 per cent, interest for accom-
modation. This is in marked contrast to the treatment
of colored labor cane-growers, who are encouraged to
employ black labor in this fashion. A colored gang is
sent to clear these people’s lands, fence them, burn off
the timber, plant the cane, weed it, and harvest the crop
when mature, the settlers receiving the net proceeds of
these colored labor speculations without doing an ounce
of work themselves. Furthermore, no interest has been
charged on the sums disbursed for these speculations,
although the amounts have, in some cases, stood for nearly
two years. About £lO,OOO has already been advanced
from the Queensland Treasury for bolstering up black
labor. These are the sort of tactics behind much of the
paraded antipathy of certain N.Q. cane growers towards
white labor under the conditions of the rebate system,
and further developments are worth watching.
♦
Said that King Ned’s visit to Portugal was to
arrange some sort of a British protectorate over
the little country, which is hopelessly in debt to
the London money-lenders, and probably must
soon pawn its nationhood. Why Portugal has
reached that state is explained by a writer in a
London daily :
Little, if anything, in Portugal that means anything is
Portuguese. The country produces little of what it
needs, and its natural sources of revenue have been sold,
as have its colonies, to foreign concessionaires. I am
living in a typical Portuguese hotel, where the only
Portuguese thing is the language. The cutlery is from
Sheffield or Solingen. The crockery is French. The
chromos on the walls are American. The bedsteads are
German. The curtains are Nottingham lace. The oil-
cloth is Yankee. The wooden toothpicks, which every-
one uses assiduously and obtrusively after each course,
are obviously Yankee, too. The pillar-box in which I shall
post this was made in Derby. The street car in which I
shall ride home was made in St. Louis ; and the fare I
Eay will go mostly to the English company that runs
isbon’s admirable street-car system. The country buys
everything, and has nothing to sell. And having long
since paid out all its capital of natural resources, it is
naturally heavily in debt to everyone.
A dreadful warning to Australia, whose George
Reid-Pumpkin-Smith party would urge it on that
same road to ruin.
4
A Maoriland correspondent:—
It grows more and more plain that politics in this
State will ere long degenerate into a protracted squabble
between the labor organisations and the alleged Farmers’
Union. At the various conferences of the latter body
held recently, resolutions were passed declaring uncom-
promising war on Skddon’s proposal to grant legislative
preference to unionists under the Conciliation Act, and
the sacred right to acquire the freehold was declared to
be the inalienable privilege of every Britisher. One of
the conferences opened with a resolution declaring belief
in the existence of God, and a bucolic orator—a Captain
Something — urged farmers to trust in God and fight for
the freehold. These antediluvian reactionaries know
well that preference to union laborers means the more
rapid multiplication of labor organisations, and hence
the greater will be the opportunity for the dull agricultural
laborer to become infected with a knowledge of his rights
as a human being—the very thing the Tory gang doesn’t
want him to do. By “ freehold,” of course, is meant the
“fee-simple”—in other words, the right of the man
with money to buy up all available space, leaving the poor
wretch who depends on his hands alone the helpless tool
of the arrogant “owners” of that earth which some
people call “the Lord’s,” but which, according to the
system in vogue, belongs to the man with the greatest
capacity to grab. The landowner is mostly pious-
in a certain way—and says the earth is the Lord’s,
but all the same his hunger after a deed setting forth
that the Lord’s earth belongs to Hon. John Smith is
amazing. And when he gets the Lord’s earth the
promptitude with which he puts up a notice that that
which was made in the Lord’s image will be prosecuted
if it doesn’t keep off the grass is amazing also.
♦
Melbourne and Sydney pay their town clerks
£lOOO a year each or thereabouts ; Glasgow pays
its clerk £3500, but then Glasgow is a ‘ city,’ not
merely the central block of one. Glasgow’s
Council began its progressive career in ’66, and
to-day employs over 10,000 people. It owns its
tramways, ferries, steamboat services, and
hydraulic power system ; runs a People’s Palace,
winter garden, concert hall, besides museums,
libraries and art galleries. Owns its own Botanic
Gardens, 11 large parks and numerous smaller
gardens—and doesn’t cadge Government grants
to keep them up. Last year its Parks Depart-
ment spent £76,356, levying its usual 3fd rate
for that special purpose. Also Glasgow’s
citizens own lodging-houses, artisans’ dwel-
lings, and the systems of electric lighting,
gas, telephones and water-supply. Its town clerk,
with nearly twice George Turner’s salary,
looks after the spending of nearly a million, and
has, besides the usual assistants, a corporation
chemist, a bacteriologist, managers of tramways,
gas, &c., a superintendent of the cleansing depart-
ment, a manager of the City Improvement Trust,
and a superintendent of the labor bureau. Mel-
bourne and other Australian cities worry along in
disorganised, happy-go-lucky fashion with cheap
men—just as Australia pays its Treasurer-in-Chief
a paltry £l9OO a year, and expects to get served
capably. The Commonwealth is lucky in its
Treasurer just now, but luck like that won’t
always last.


Ste^ d pm 8 re An m T nd * Marfcin ’ a A P iol and
Be sure you get Martin’s. Sole pronmtor VV
England.* armaCBUtlCal ° hemist ’ Softhampt^
.amusements.
theatre roya LT^VoVrr
■ Lessee & Director .. Mr. J. 0. WILLIAMQnv V *
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Mafi°S ,
MR. CUYLER HASTINGS '
and THE "SHERLOCK HOLMES” DRAMATIC Cn
in ' J 'L
SHERLOCK HOLMES
A Greater Success than Ever.
SATURDAY, JUNE 217, IF
Box Plan at Paling's.
THEATRE,
WERE KINO.
DALACE THEATRE, SYDNEyT
r Sole Lessee and Manager ;. William Anderson
Business Manager .. .. Michael Josenh
LAST TWO NIGHTS of MAGCIE MOORE \ n
Great Laughter-Creating, Farcical Coihedy, 6
The Widow From Japan.
SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 27, WAY DOWN SOUTH
Or, The Negro Slave’s Devotion. ’
Prices —35., 25., Is. 6d., and Is.
■ YCEU M TH EATRE, SYOneT
■■ Lessee Mr. George Musgrove
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. WILLIAM'ANDERSON
AN EMPHATIC SUCCESS.
Only 7 More Performances of the Realiaticv-Up-to-Date
Sensational Drama, _ ’
THE NIGHT BIRDS OF LONLON.
Prices—3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Box Plan open at Elvv’s Mnsie
Warehouse, George Street. !
CENTENARY HALL, SYD NE v
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY), JUNE 25,
GRAND RECITAL & CONCERT
by
MISS MURIEL FOSTER,
Assisted by
Misses MAUD FITZ-STUBBS, FLORENCE WHITE-
Messrs. E. STEVENSON, ARTHUR MASSEY a’
BESTRAM FLOHM, S. MAERS, J. ROLAND HOGUE
G. LIMINGTON.
Admission—2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
T h
MUTOSCOPE.
WONDERFUL LIVING PICTURES
now on view at
KING STREET ARCADE CORNER,
and
74 OXFORD STREET.
Real Life Portrayed with a Vividness and Realism
Never Before Witnessed.
ADMISSION FREE.
IN AID OF THE ORGAN FUND OF ST. MARY’S
CHURCH, NORTH SYDNEY.
Initial Production of “ THE SYDNEY MUFFS ” in the
Romantic Drama, HARVEST
(By Hy. Hamilton, Author of “ MOTHS ’’).
CRITERION THEATRc, THURSDAY EVENING, JULY 2.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. Reserved Stalls, 2/6; Dress Chyle, 3/.
To avoid disappointment intending patrons are
requested to book early.
Stage Director, AMY HENSLEIGH, Hon. Sec.
R. D’ORSAY OGDEN. S. F. FRASER; Hour Treas.
STANLEY McKAY, Hon. Bus. Mgr.
I V O L I THEATRE, S Y D iM £ Y.
Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
NEW FIRST PART-LAWN TENNIS.
Splendid Success of the Royal Society Entertainer,
RUDINOFF. Also, America’s Greatest Comedy
Sketch Artists, HALLEN and FULLER.
LAST NIGHTS of MR. ERNEST FITTS"!
Mr. FRANK YORKE, Miss MOLLY. BENTLEY, Mr.
EDWARD FORD, Mr. GEO. BENTLEY, Miss MAGGIE
FRASER, Miss NEVA CARR-GLYNN, Miss FLOUKIE
RANGER, Mr. GUS FRANKS, and all our Great Co.
OPERA HOUSE, ME LBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Riekasds.
11 THE BOISSETTS 11
The Greatest Entertainment in the world.
W. C. FEILDS,
America’s Greatest Eccentric Juggler.
FRED. RIVENHALL, WILL WHITBURN, R.ODA
PERRY, 808 BELL, WALKER & MAY, CONNIE
HAMILTON, LULU GOULD. •
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
XV Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of AS YOU LIKE 17.
SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 27, Return to Melbourne of
Mr. Musgrove’s Grand Comic Opera Co. in
A Chinese Honeymoon
For 6 Nights Only.
SATURDAY, JULY 4, THE THIRTY THIEVES,
For 6 Nights Only. >
USUAL PRICES. Box Plan at Allan’s
Theatre royal, Melbourne
Lessee .. .. .. Mr. Bland Holt.
Business Manager .. C. Simonsens.
Continued Success Every Evening of
Bland Holt’s Dramatic Co. in the Great Australian
Melodramatic Attraction,
THE BREAKING OF THE DTO CfiT,
Written by Mr. Arthur Shirley. •
Prices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan's.
-|-HEATRE ROYAL,
THE
MELBOURNE.
KELLERM ANNE
in the Sensational
DIVING SCENE -
in
BLAND HOLT’S Great Production.
THE BREAKING OF THE DROUGHT.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, ME -BO J IN
Under the Direction of Mr. J. U. WiwJA.MsiJS.
EVERY EVENING, EVERY EVENING,
DANIEL FRAWLEY
in Augustus Thomas’s Great Play,
ARIZONA,
“AMERICA’S GREATEST PLAY.”
gIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of THE LADY SLAVEY.
JOHN F. SHERIDAN
SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 27, ,
and his Brilliant Musical Company in the New a
Racical Comedy,
MRS. G-OLDSTBINI- ,
For the First Time in Melbourne.
Prices—3s., 25., and Is. Box Plan at Glen s. H s -
for booking.) Day Sale at Stegmaii’s.
Under Vice-Regal
Patronage
.And by
Special Appointment
Mrs. William Green and Miss Green
Professors of Ballroom Dancing, Deportment, Grace
Carriage, Etiquette and Calislhmio Sxerci • t
The Latest Society Skirt Dances. Classes arrapg ,
private residences. Colleges and Convents att .
Classes in all suburbs. Pr°spectus—
“ Ellerslie,”loo Nicholson-st.,r itzroy.
NGINEMAN’S MASTER "
relating to Examinations for Certificates. .
petency in. all the States. 365 Pages, .106 1‘ | j
6s. 6d. posted, by L. F. R. SCHNABEL, Con"
Engineer, 443 Bourke-street, Melbourne. Also
Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney. - —
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOR:
Price 4s fid, postage fid.
Ivanhoe (W.A.) ia hard at work on improve-
ments, which should result in a very material reduction
in costs. All the hauling will be done through one shaft.
It is claimed that the present plant extracts 85 per cent,
of the gold contents, and that it would cost more than it
is worth to extract the balance. The diamond drill
boring from the 1600 ft. level of the Great Boulder has
been withdrawn, and it may be taken for granted that it
has been a complete failure. Of the six lodes found in
the upper levels only one is reported as having been
found in the bore, and that showed only lldwt-. ore. Had
the bore been a success, the result would have been
trumpeted far and wide, and the secrecy now displayed
will have a very damaging effect on the market. The
mine is now earning at the rate of about 245. a share
yearly, and, in future, commencing with July, divs. of
ss. quarterly will be paid, with a probable bonus at the
year’s end. With such a prospect, were it not for the
failure of the diamond drill at 1600 ft., the shares would
look tempting.
. * * * *
; ’ Associated Financial Corporation, run by that
wonderful wizard, Horatio Bottomley, has been recon-
structed, with a capital of £1,000,000 in ss. shares. Co.
had previously undergone some half-a-dozen reconstruc-
tions, and has always been a complete failure; but
Bottomley appears, and the public comes to his cry
df “ pay, pay, pay.” Bottomley still reckons that he
can get divs. from that 10-year-old wild cat, Associated
Sit. Jackson, Southern Cross, and the equally hopeless
Trafalgar, Ealgoorlie.
* • * •
North Kalgurli (W.A.) will shortly start crush-
ing with a new 10-head mill ; manager Nutman hopes by
the end of July. The mine has been more or less opened
up by eleven levels, and there is enough 15dwt. ore in
Sight to keep a 10-head mill going for at least two years.
The manager is very favorably known on the field for his
economical-handling of the Mt. Charlotte, and, with a
much more up-to-date plant, his working costs should be
low. The great drawback is that the lodes are much
disturbed and patchy. The final call of 6d. was payable
22nd inst. Co. is in 350,000 shares of 10s., so it will have
to show very good results to justify any very high quote.
**» ‘ *
Princess Royal (Norseman, W.A.) continues its
successful career, its June div. of Is. bringing up the
total distributed to £BB,OOO, or 110 per cent, on its
nominal capital. Mine continues to open up satisfac-
torily, but, unfortunately, the lode underlays into the
adjoining Princess Royal Central at 390 ft., so that, when
tpe three levels now being worked are depleted, the mine
will be played out. Under the circumstances, the best
thing to be done is to amalgamate, as the Bull syndicate,
which was trying to acquire both, intended doing.
* * * *
.Tune divs. for W.A. mines already tot up to
£163,800, co.’s responsible being Great Boulder Prop.
£87,500, Oroya - Brown Hill £40,500, Sons of Gwaiia
£31,800, and Princess Royal £4OOO.
; * * * *
m Briseis: The statement by Messrs. Lake and
Qprrie, English,engineers sent out to report on the pro-
perty, fell like a bombshell in the camp, and fully
accounts for the tremendous slump in the value of shares
within the past three months. It also fully confirms
Bulletin’s consistent representation that the property
his always been grossly overvalued. The report is ail
the more significant from the fact that Mr. Currie, who
reported on the mine in November, 1899, has been com-
pelled to reduce his original estimate of 4,500,000 cubic
yards of wash to 2,700,000 ; and, further, he admits that
his former estimate of the tin contents of the drift of
frthn f per cent, to 1 per cent, per cubic yard is “ greatly
in excess of what wili be actually produced,” but he de-
clines to commit himself to a new estimate of the
quantity of tinin.the mine. A qualifying sentence in
the report' is still more significant: “If the above scheme
cstn be carried out the future working of the mines will
bp considerably simplified. That it is possible to carry out
the scheme has been proved by previous work, but it will
b'4 a most anxious time for the management, and the
position will require to be carefully considered from
ifionth to month.” Shareholders who read between the
lines of this report will find very poor consolation in it.
4- * » ■ * *
, Two ’Murkan oil people, K. R. Moure and C.
Fair, are reporting on the Coorong (S.A.) oil country for
the Melb. Co. which has secured 240 Square miles under
■license. Moure represents Douglas Lacey, a still bigger
Massachusetts oil-man. The supposed oil country is the
low-lying swamp land south-east of the Murray mouth.
The outward sign of the possible inward presence of oil
is an inflammable, elastic substance which has oozed
from the swamps, and filled the holes. A bore was put
down 332 ft. 10 years ago, but nothing was got beyond the
usual “indications,” and the appliances were not then
available to go any further. The ’Murkans report that,
on the presence of the inflammable ooze alone, deep
boring is worth while.
* » • *
A British syndicate has started to work the old
North Cornish of Daylesford (Vic.) with an up-to-date
mining plant'and, it is said, plenty of capital. The mine
has been shut down for years, and was always a stringer
in the matter of dividends. The North Cornish was the
last big mine to work the Daylesford leads, and great
things are expected from the old ground.
■L * * * •
Bendigo established a new record last week in
a highly payable crushing from 3310 ft.—the deepest
point at which payable gold has been won on the field.
The crushing—3o tons for 21oz.—came from Lansell's
180 mine. New Chum Victoria, adjoining, also had a
payable crushing from nearly the same depth. New
Chum Railway, about a miie to the south of these
mines, is passing through spurry country at a
depth of over 3800 ft., and in some of the spurs coarse
gold is showing. This is quite an unexpected dis-
covery ; it appears to be an entirely distinct formation
from any previously worked in the mine. : Altogether
Bendigo’s prospects in the deep ground are better than
they ever were before, and it looks almost like a certainty
that it will not be long before the New Chum line, will
again assert itself as the premier producing formation of
the district.
* * * *
jubilee mine, Scarsdale, near Ballarat, during
past 2J- years has produced 24,0000 z. of gold, paid £36,000
in dividends and spent £lO,OOO on machinery. The
original outlay was £9OOO, and the profit on this has been
£46,000. This is the mine which the Mines Selection Co.
ighominiously rejected, whereupon its Melbourne repre-
sentative, H. J. -Daley, took it in hand personally, and is
to be credited largely with the success which has been
achieved. Prospects look hopeful for a long continuance
of satisfactory results.
* * » * ,
Berry Consols Extended, Smeaton (Vic.), made
a profit of £8748 in its half-year to May 31. Of this £BOOO
has been paid in divs., and, with the balance brought
forward, there is £1699 left. The total paid by this co. in
divs. to date is £49,000 ;in wages £180,926. Present
prospects of the mine are unusually good. Costs have
also been reduced, partly through the recent introduc-
tion of a system of electric haulage.
Horatio Bottomley recently told the share-
holders in a Loddon (Vic.) Deep Lead co. that it was re-
ported on the authority of a man “well-known out
there,” that there were 965,000 fathoms of washdirt
available, worth loz. of gold per fathom, which, added
the great financier, “means loz. jer ton.” An area
6x 6 x 6ft. represents a mighty big ton. Divs. amount-
ing to over £1,000,000 were promised, the first to be de-
clared in August next. Writer will wager that August,
1904, will come before the first div. is paidr“
* * * *
Paid-up Queen Centrals (Charters Towers) have
lately sold briskly at 265; and over, on the strength of the
probability of the straight shaft cutting the lode worked
in the Queen Cross. Less than three years ago shares'
stood at about 35., and the mine was among the despised
shows known locally as “tripe,” and nothing in the
Central ground has had anything to do with lifting the
stock into its present position—A good instance of a -
number of mines working on each other’s boundaries, as
in The Towers, where a good development in one means
renewed vigor and enhanced values for perhaps a dozen
others.
‘ i.#- » * *
jLL. West Coast stilj has hopes of tapping a
petroleum supply. The Kotuka Oil Co., boring outside
Greymouth, lately tapped a flow of gas, which was
followed by a rush of sludge. For some days the flow
spurted 60ft. high: it “resembled ground pumice
soaked in kerosene and mixed with water."
Ex-Govt. Geologist Murray, of Vic., has made
another inspection of the silver-lead and copper country
120 miles or so south of Burketown, in the Queensland
Gulf country. Most of the shows are held by a Sydney
co., which doesn’t seem to have done anything except
try to sell them to J. Bull. As, however, Bull would be
required to put up enough money to build 126 miles
of railway, besides doing some harbor work at the port
of shipment, he has taken two years to think over it, and
it still thinking. Mr. Murray describes large bodies
containing ore, mostly galena ; the weak point is that he
apparently did not take samples, and gives no idea of the
value of the stuff. Of one show he says that 400,000 tons
of ore may be said to be proved ; but as to quality all he
says is—“ From what I can learn there have been less
than 1000 tons of ore altogether sent from this mine for
treatment, the results varying from 60 per cent, to 80 per
cent, lead and 28oz. to 50oz. silver.” The investor will
probably want something much more definite than “ from
what I can learn.
* * * »
The latest Westralian bubble has been pricked
more suddenly than usual. The alleged find was made
about 50 miles south-east of Kalgoorlie ; “ gold-studded
stone, the richest ever found in the State,” was reported,
the place was christened Randell’s (Dr. Randell, M.L.G.,
is one of the backers of Pleyel, who pegged the first
blocks), and a rush started. Mines-inspector Jenkins,
sent off at once, found that no alluvial had been got, that
the country had been well overhauled by dry-blowers and
deserted, and that “ the place is fit for prospecting only.”
♦ * * *
A new game has sprung up in Victoria since
the Factories Act compelled dressmakers to pay their
apprentices at least half-a-crown a week. They now
advertise “dressmaking classes,” and the independent
young lady goes to learn at nothing a week, and so keeps
her poorer sister out of the running.
* * » *
The present sugar season on the Tweed River
(N.S.W.) promises to be a record one. The growth of
cane throughout the district is described as something
the like of which has never been seen there since the first
farm was hewn out of the dense jungle known as the
“Big Scrub.” Between 70,000 and 80,000 tons of cane
will be put through Oondong mill alone, which starts
crushing in July.
* * * *
There is something in the complaint of Labor-
member Nielsen, with regard to N.S.W. mining wardens.
Until a few years ago the Mines Department had a staff
of wardens, who also did police-magistrate’s work. Most
times they didn’t know much about general law, but they
did know the mining law—several of them had helped to
make it. They administered that well, and fined the
drunk at random. But nowadays the Mines Department
hasn’t any such staff ; the P.M.’s act as Wardens, and
while they fine the drunk in a strictly legal style, the
shockingly intricate mining law is administered in a very
casual way.
* * * »
“T.D.”: The best accountant, probably, in
Victoria, who happens to be in the Iceberg service, was
once visiting a farmer down Gippsland way, and was
made use of by the man on the land to fix up his income-
tax schedule, “ because it was so difficult to understand.”
The figures staggered him, especially when the “ poor
farmer,” during the evening, stai ted the characteristic
whine about the woe and unprofitableness of his lot.
“Why,” he remonstrated, “you made £lOOO profit;
Surely that was good enough ? ” The farmer objected
that £6OO had been spent on new machinery and new
implements, which left him only £400.. “Of course
you’ve deducted the £600,” he remarked. The public
servant said he had done nothing of the sort, carefully
explained to the poor farmer that his £6OO had been clear
profit, however he chose to spend it—that it was still an
asset ; and that a whining agricultural hypocrite, who
no doubt complained bitterly about the extravagant
treatment of leading public servants, who didn’t average
one-fifth of his income, was a curse to hi» '•ountry, any-
way. That year one farmer’s schedule at least was made
up properly.
Brisbane Courier shows signs of coming
back to its old love and the flesh-pots ; but the
Boodle wraith is going to run its paper next July,
fearing, perhaps, that the morning journal might
throw another somersault at an awkward moment.
Cardinal Moran’s South Sea Islands tour
has been abandoned—ostensibly because of an
outbreak of measles at the Islands, really because
there was no marked rush of excursionists to join
in the trip, for which it was proposed to charter a
special steamer. The difficulties of blending a
convivial whisky-and-water holiday with a solemn
holy-water enterprise were too great.
Dr. M‘Carthy’s “rain-making” para-
phernalia, with which he is undertaking to flood
some of the droughty inland parts for a trifling
consideration, consists of a machine to send up,
“from three centres, a column of gas made by
certain chemicals.” The rain-fakir says that “ the
gas causes in the different strata of the atmosphere
a vacuum, which is the centre of a heat storm and
is filled by the dense clouds that contain the rain.”
But in a great many parts of the interior dense
clouds to fill a vacuum with are almost as rare as
the conversion of the devil.
The N.S.W. Government proposes to put
its referendum as to reduction of members of the
Assembly somewhat in this way:
Are you in favor of
125 members
100
90 „
80 „
70
Indicate by the figure 1 your first choice, by the figure
2 your second, and so on.
Then the votes will be calculated on the Hare
preferential system. Those who wish to vote
against reduction will do so by voting for 125
members.
Two items from the papers on the Six
Blathers case, tabled in the Australian Parlia-
ment :
Telegram from Premier of N.S.W. to Prime Minister.
11th December, 1902.—Sincerely hope your Government
see fit release hatters on Orontes without further delay.
Matter arousing intense dissatisfaction here.
Telegram from Premier of N.S.W. to Prime Minister.
12th December, 1902.—Just received cable from Agent-
General that action taken to prevent landing British
workmen seriously affecting financial prospects this
State. Again strongly urge permission to land.
Received your wire this morning.
The shadow of Cohen over our politics.
The Bulletin receives a printed docu-
ment signed by Senator Zeal of Victoria, in which
that gentleman grieves over the proposal to
establish a High Court on account of the expense,
and compares the cost of our judicial system with
the cheap Canadian methods. The comparison
is somewhat erratic as it doesn’t take full account
of the Canadian provincial expenditure, but that
may pass. Australia can’t do better than follow
Canada’s example—by concentrating most of the
business in the Federal High Court and cutting
down the State establishments, by abolishing the
State Agents-General, by wiping out the Upper
Houses of the State Parliaments, and by sticking
on a 50 per cent. Protective tariff.
Few men have a better knowledge of the
working of the Lands Acts than has Land Agent
W. N. Willis, of 21 Bligh-street. Payment by
results is not only reasonable but also novel.*
Taking the second quarter of 1902 and the
second quarter of 1903 (according to the statement pre-
pared by two of Sydney's leading Accountants Mr
William Robertson and Mr. Wilfrid Johnson, of Yaralla
Chambers, Pitt-street) the business of the Oapilla Hair
Tonic Proprietary of Sydney has increased its volume of
business by 48% which, in these days of competition apes
a long way to prove that this preparation is far and awav
ahead of the common or garden variety of hair restorer
which is generally foisted upon the public.*
At Poverty Point.
«* Women are all actresses. What makes actresses so
fascinating and attractive to men is that they are women
twice over.” —Max O’Rell.
The statements sown broadcast by strong man Sandow,
athlete and advertiser, that he was a puny, sickly school-
boy at a continental college, and owed his marvellous
development solely to his system, created considerable
amusement among some of his fellow-countrymen in
Melbourne. They aver that he spent his youth and early
manhood as a brawny individual, earning an honest
livelihood as a lumper on the Hamburg wharves, hence
these thews. They go into raptures over his strength,
but over his system they don’t seem to rapture to any
extent worth mentioning.
“ Spring ” : What a number of sterling actors end their
days at Poverty Point! The drought-stricken sheep in
the “ Breaking of the Drought ” were bought by a butcher
when the Sydney season was over, and found so poor as to be
fit only for sausage. Perhaps they had been poor all along :
perhaps listening night after night to the torturing
blither of the hero, the moans of the heroine, and the
curses of the villain had told on them. Anyhow, it was a
melancholy ending for a flock Of actors who had played
their parts well. The man-actors wind up at Poverty
Point; the sheep-actors comes to an end that, after all,
is not more tragic.
A contributor writes at considerable length to state
that as Mark Hambourg was leaving Melbourne his spec-
tacles fell into the Yarra, but the coating of scum and
dead things on the surface of the alleged water was so
thick that they didn’t sink, and a laborer presently
rescued them.
Napoleon Buonaparte as a stage subject is played down
about as low as he will go in a recent drama called
“ The Exile.” This three-act atrocity shows how the
weary, ailing Boney puts in his time at St. Helena. He
has some mild birthday festivities, and the principal
item on the programme is a review of 10 small kiddies,
armed with toy swords and drums. When he has patted
the heads of the 10 infants they march up the stage and
leave him, and the busted Emperor, striking his favorite
attitude with his chin on his chest, murmurs, “My last
review!” “The Exile,” produced in London, was
rather disrespectfully greeted on the first night. A
voice from the gallery interrupted the simple pathos of
the review episode by calling upon Nap. for a hornpipe.
R. S. Smythe, the much-travelled, began his showman’s
career in ’62, when he left the Melb. Herald to
take a small concert co. to South Africa, India, and the
Chinese ports. He possessed at the time £5OO and a
piano. He once said to present writer : “ I got back
with nix ; but I had learnt the business, which is a diffi-
cult one to learn. I was well satisfied with the trip.”
“ Moose ” : The awful falling-in of a Melbourne paper
re Leon Caron’s scoring of “My Lady Molly ” was a
worse thing than your par. would suggest. When
“ Molly ” was put on, Jones’s scorings had not arrived, so
Caron scored the music himself at the last moment,
assisted by Conolly—of course in excellent style. Caron’s
scoring was hurriedly rehearsed, found to go all right,
and played for the first few nights. By-and-bye a
belated mail brought along Jones’s scoring. It was
played over and found to be a good way behind the
substitute. So, taking out the overture (which,
of course, he had Dot provided), Caron put
aside Jones’s music and went on with his own—
to the joy of all but the daily paper critic.
On 22nd May that thrilling young party stated that,
“ owing to an accident . . . the instrumental score for
the first performances had to be supplied by Mr. Leon
Caron, and very ably indeed they were vamped (HI) by
that sound musician.” (“Sound musician” hereisgood.)
This was bad enough, but the unhappy young man went
on to say that—“ naturally the management desired to
give the composer’s work in its entirety.” And three days
later he went out of his way to remark that it was
“now being performed with all the orchestral effects
of the composer, Mr. Sidney Jones; and the rich
harmonies, which a hasty scoring failed to bring
out, greatly enhance the value of the work” (HI), etc.
Then Leon Caron went out in force and sought for blood.
Caron still “bucks” at the horrid word, “vamped.”
Fancy our only Leon vamping I It is not so many months
back that there was a similar falling-in over the pro-
gramme of a first-rate visiting violinist (Max Schluter),
who, finding himself “slated,” set a trap. He altered
his printed programme in a drastic way one night, but
next day out came the usual remarks as to the “defi-
ciencies ” of the performer in certain pieces (on the
printed programme), which pieces had never been played
at all! Then the kettle boiled over, and great was the
boil thereof.
Mrs. G. B. W. Lewis recited before the Austral Salon
(Melb.), on the anniversary of the Battle of Waterloo,
Disraelffs speech in the House of Commons on the death
of Wellington. No one mentioned that this speech was
a deliberate crib from the address of a French orator, de-
livered a few years previously in connection with the
death of a famous French general. It was Ben. Hayward
who discovered the plagiarism. Dizzy said he had for-
gotten having read the oration in French.
“Harry Musgrove and Co., Musical, Dramatic and
General Agency,” of Argent Chambers, Hunter-street,
is one of the newest shingles hung out in the over-
shingled city of Sydney. Harry Musgrove, long business
manager with J. C. Williamson, now undertakes to book
tours (alas, how often the tour doesn’t pay ex’s, after it
is “ booked” !), to organise concerts (what a pathetic lot
of girls there are who want to get a concert organised !)
to arrange engagements (“ Poverty Point ” is lined three
deep with people who are trying to catch a glimpse of an
arranged engagement on the far horizon !), also to supply
artists for Mrs. Cohen’s “ at home ” and to do all kinds of
theatrical biz. And if all this biz isn’t done to the com-
plete satisfaction of the applicants it may fairly be
assumed that the times are responsible—not Harry
Musgrove. ' J
“R. 8.”: Who says Edwin Geach of the delicately-
poised moustache, present co-partner of Willoughby of
the glad rags, is lucky ? Geach once ran war correspondent
Donald MacDonald on a war-lecturing tour. At the out-
set emaciated Mac. of Ladysmith was a good show artist
but, before half the lectures had been delivered Geach
found the gaunt one running to fat on his’hands
and losing caste as one who had suffered much
and starved on locusts and wild honey. Later
Geach with Willoughby, took over the Arnold show
and before any pelf had accumulated the plague
closed up Sydney Criterion and carried off two members
of the co. This blotted out that particular season and
cost Geach over four figures. The plague-driven and
much-disinfected co., after a season in Melbourne, made
foi Maoriland Geach was in advance. The first indivi-
dual to greet him at the Bluff was the income-tax a-'ent
and the last at Auckland to farewell the departing
manager was the income-tax collector! Return! mrtn
Sydney the G.-W Co caught the back-wash of the
drought. Finally Geach was struck by Bent’s railwav
strike and compelled to close his show for several nights
, r Bulletin.— -Was doing the first night of a very
mdo-drama played by an equally meJo co. in a tour in
”r » nd n Wh 7 e f he) ' d ', ink whisky and call each other
Mac. Had witnessed two blood-stained acts during
which time the villain smoked a rank cigar and hissed^
iaf( 01 f ed again ' A JS° lle sent tou r innocents to their
last account. Two were shot in tha Lnur
from behind. A third wo Id have met asi,S
for the carelessness of “ Projfs ” who nealec ed
the third chamber of the revolver, but he “was efficiently
bashed into eternity with the butt end of the “ g"n’’
The fourth victim was pushed over the
stage cliff, to perish a bruised and hwdm~ ° f the
the mattress 2f?. below. °l
he? headgear'(it had 'been'lnning ‘'memo're thanT'
out to be a tack !), I fled up the d o (lt af t er wards turned
The manager greeted me effusively,'and
complexioned youth in a waiter suit 1 ' n A'
whisky.” The manager himself poured the v' 36 -!*
brand usually kept for first night criticsl
to say “ When.” Remembering me
ber of people I might vet have eh „ , the num-
night was over, I dfd The whiskt* 3 had ” b .. efore he
further south than the second top h button d m "° reached
coat when I heard a voice - "»nw n my waist-
noticeK I did. Next evening glve us a & ood
the door.—Djin-Djin. g my name was taken off


and WOMEN
Rerve Diseases.
♦-
FT has been scientifically proved that,
-L when the nerve power of the body is
deranged to such an extent that
serious depletion of the natural quantity
occurs, grave nerve diseases make them-
selves manifest. The nerve power of the
body is like the
Fuel of an Engine.
It is the source of heat and activity by which
the machine moves and fulfils its purpose.
Take the fire from the engine, it is an
engine no longer ; take the nerve-life from
a human being,
You have a Dead Man..
Natural nerve power must then be main-
tained in the system if Health is to be
enjoyed. If your nerves are out of gear,
you will suffer from all kinds of STOMACH,
LIVER, BRAIN, KIDNEY and other
affections. The cure of such ailments from
such a source lies in Electrioity, which is
Nerve-Power, and correct medical treat-
ment suitable to suoh maladies.
•m.
1 ■ ■•■ M
aaaK IinZSSSSEMItt
*
'
\
** INVIQORATOR, ” as worn by Woman.
Stomach Diseases.
THE man or woman who suffers from
INDIGESTION or Dyspepsia of
long standing is to be pitied in their
martyrdom. How many have tried new
doctors and drugs without benefit? Yet
there is a new but sure cure, a recent
scientific discovery. Pathologists have dis-
covered that when the nerve centres govern-
ing the kidneys and stomach are deranged,
Bad Digestion follows
with its host of ailments. A bad stomach
vitiates the blood and poisons the system.
It is impossible to be healthy. Any man
or woman martyred to Indigestion should
wear one of
The Freeman & Wallace
Electric “ INVIGORATOR ” Belts for
a few weeks and note the results. It
diffuses through the nerves governing the
kidneys a new electric force, by curative
electric currents, re-invigorating the nerves,
giving strength to the digestive processes,
and assuring good digestion. Health is
sure to follow.
QNOa 00013 F
The Medical Marvel of the Century.
£1 ONLY,
To weary sufferers fortunate enough to possess one of these wonderful instruments, good health awaits them. It acts at once unnr th* •
that normal nerve power, the degeneration of which is the root of such physical evils as INSOMNIA, EPILEPSY HYSTERIA RT ADDER A Fttwpv
TROUBLES, PROSTATIC DISORDERS, VARICOCELE, INDIGESTION, DYSPEPSIA, FUNCTIONAL HEART
NESS CONFUSION OF MEMORY, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA, WEAK BACK, AND LOSS OF VITAL POWER H S SJnds S
reputable men and women in the Commonwealth, after all other remedies had failed. It restores permanently the nerveWflTPff uTq w™
DRAINED FROM THE SYSTEM, which must be replaced if a cure is to be effected. Worn for a few hours nightly the
cun ei\I Sl no t dfs ”omfort entreS ’ Whllst the P atient is wra PP« d in sium ber the invigorating power is diffused through his fntile being. There is no friction of* the
Freeman and Wallace Electric “ Invigorator ” Belt
There is no further charge. _ It is locally manufactured, not by working jewellers as some locally sold belts are but bv
by leading Electrical authorities. It has true vulcanite insulation, which prevents the escape of the current, without which
Duty is paid to all States. The £lO “ INVIGORATOR ” Belt contains 2ozs. 18ct. gold. £8 is allowed in return for it
Ihe following certificate of efficacy, given by a noted Electrician, is worth perusal.
The
is sold for ONE POUND ONLY,
skilled electricians. It is certificated
no Belt is useful in medical practice,
even after a cure has been effected.
Remember i *J73a.e genuinenesa. -of tills 3Belt Is baclK«ct3. by
a £lOOO
ond.
An Improved “ INVIOORATOR.
A GREAT CERTIFICATE
♦
A high authority upon Electrical Soience, Mr.
ALBERT N. LIBBY, representing ALLIS-CHAL-
MERS COMPANY, the largest electrical firm in the
world, who arrived under contract to the N.S. WALES
GOVT., and supervised with others the Electric Tram
System of Sydney, gives the following certificate to the
SUPERIORITY and EFFICACY of these wonderful
Electric “ INVIGORATOR” Belts:
“ 1 have made several electrical tests of your Electric
Belt ’ and find it gives a steady current of good
strength. It is electrically perfect. I have tested other
Belts on the market, and have not obtained the same
results. It convinces me you have one of the moat
perfect Electric * Belts ’ on the market to-day.
“ (Signed) ALBERT N. LIBBY.”
Electrical and Mechanical Engineer for
Allis-Ohalmers 00., Ohicago, U.B.A.
MR. ARTHUR HILL (of Hill and Sylvainy), the famous art-cyolist, touring the Australian States under management to Mr.
Harry Rickards, the Vaudeville King, wore this Belt, and says
"In April of this year I strained the muscles of my back. I wove your ‘ INVIGORATOR,’ and soon regained
my necessary professional strength.
“ Tivoli Theatre. (Signed) ARTHUR HILL (Hill and Sylvainy).
INVIGORATOR,” as worn by Men.
An Internationally Registered Specialist.
Every patient who is treated at the INSTITUTE is under the care of an internationally
registered PHYSICIAN, and skilled medical electrician. Dr. R. Wallace, M.D..L.R.C.P.,
E. L.F.P.S., E., L.M., is registered by the MEDICAL BOARDS of N.S. WALES, VIC-
TORIA, SOUTH AUSTRALIA, AMERICA and ENGLAND. He is the only registered
SPECIALIST who thoroughly understands the application of Electricity to the oure of
Nerve Diseases. (See N.S, Wales Registered Practitioner’s List for Qualification.)
SIR DOMINIC CORRIGAN, BART., Physician to the late Queen, speaks of him thus :
“ I entertain a high, opinion of Dr. Wallace in regard to his professional qualifications.”
A Work on Electro-Therapeutics.
“CLINICAL EXPERIENCES,” 550 pages, 150 medical plates, 31 chapters,
explains the Electro-Therapeutic methods by which so many wonderful cures are -made.
Numerous testimonials, bearing the names and photographs of persons cured, are also in-
cluded. These comprise testimonies from THE HONORABLE DANIEL O’CONNOR
M*?:* Parkin, J.P., Mr. Arthur Hill (Tivoli Theatre), the famous art cyclist Mr'
Philip Newbury, the great tenor, Inspector Fowler, N.S. Wales Police, and many others'
Posted free to any address on receipt of
ONE shilling in stamps.
FREEMAN * WALLACE
and SURGICAL INSTITUTE
ELIZABETH anS. BATHLA.ST SUBSETS, SYDNEY.
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director. Medicines packed Free From Observation and sent te all parts eF Australia.
Dr. RIOHARD WALLACE, M.D., L.R.C.P., E., L.F.P.8., 8., L»„ Physisian-in-ChieF. Letters treated with Professional Secreoy and promptly replied te.


** The Brotherhood of the Good Shepherd”
has taken root inDubbo(N.S. W.) Bishop Camidge
has'given a site for the Home.' The institu 1 ion is
Church of England, and “'brothers ” may be
clergymen or laymen. They must remain un-
married while in the Order. The duties of the
“ brothers ” will be to scour country up to the
Queensland border, gain entrance to shearing
sheds and miners’ camps, and, as opportunity
serves, lay spiritual bait about in their tracks.
Darley, Beauchamp, Hampden, Brassey, and even
warrior Hutton, are all .patrons or something qf
the Order; and, it need hardly be added, the
Order is endeavoring to raise money in England
to shove the enterprise along.
A party of Jap. naval officers were taken
down to the Bellambi coal mine the other day and
the manager of the works spread himself at great
length with a view to impressing the Heathen.
He was somewhat disappointed as the spreading
process went on, to note that the Heathen were
not being impressed to any great extent. When
he had pumped himself dry one of the Chrysan-
themum men smiled sweetly and explained in
tolerable English that the mine required to be
brought up to date, and fluently advised that
manager to go in for certain kinds of new machinery
“that we use in Japan.” Then the party
adjourned for “light.refreshments,” but a flabber-
gasted manager drank his light refreshment neat.
He wanted u to keep him up. t
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle. J
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On SecurCy of Freehold or
Leasehold Oity or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF~ INTEREST.
Our new Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege ot repaying up to 20 per
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any Fne.
Directors — Thomas Littlejo™, Esq.,Chairman; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
J T. Walker : James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.O. ; F. E. Winchcombe, Esq., M.P
. . T-. mr. n r. n DT A T? I? A R Q
Esq. ; Senator J. .
General Manager and Actuary-
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary
Hearne's
Core
TUB BA.MZOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never neen known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
md a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OF COUGHS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERT DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
& MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
DURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
'Mr. Hearne.—
“ Dear Sir,—l enclose for your own private perusal
sortion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
»f London, England, from which you will glean that
lour medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr to
•olds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
>e mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
>ortion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
and. You can see for yourself what an immense success
t was.—Yours faithfully, .”
Extract from letter alluded to above:—
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
trrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
nuch‘interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
iff the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
roin a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
upplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONT H S' TORTURE.
IELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“ Dergholm, Victoria.
“Dear Sir, —1 wish to add my testimony to the won-
lerful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
nonths, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
dvice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
’ours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
Irst dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
m a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
nay depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
tonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“ Yours faithfullv,
“JAMES ASTBURY."
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
learne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
ectly and rapidlv successful under circumstances which
ndoubtedl.v prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
he Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
fty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS.
**l used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to thres
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie's Creek, Victoria.”
•
•• Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. 1 only gave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but I am sending for another bottle in case I should want it.—D. M'DONALD, Trinkfey, via
Quirindi, N.S.W.”
•
** Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney."
9
‘ My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good, it having quickly cured us both. —R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
Victoria.”
9
“I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me.—(Mrs.) JOHN RAHII.LY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
O
“ I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine. —JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria."
«
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and’am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone. —J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
G
“My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
Queen-street, Melbourne.”
•
“I lately administered some of vour Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous.—F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Baj r , Sydney, N.S.W.”
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria."
“Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
•
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at onoe
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” •
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
"I have tried lots of medicine, but vours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody —S
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” •
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine
but I can truly say that lam astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of my brief trial. JOHN C*
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
•
“Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good ; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well.—H. HOOD
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.” ' ’
•
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have Dulled
me through a long and dangerous illness.—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
“The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.—CHAS. WHYBROW Snoch's
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
" The Scientific Australian Offiee,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
"Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ao-
courtant, Oollins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
"PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO."
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
" 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Please send us 36
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-daj r thathe had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
"We are, faithfully yours,
* THOMASON, CHATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists."
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir,—Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the .first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
i“ Editor Geelong Advertiser.”
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
BRANCH DEPOT
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
THE
SMELTING » REFINING GO. of AUSTRALIA
Works: DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA (56 Miles from Sydney)-
1301, Limited.
—v —V —V —V —V —v —V —V —’V —v ■ V —-V —"V —'V
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores,
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay. SlclgS, 3.11 d JeTATQllei*S S~WeeP, etC.
Tor all Information regarding Rates, apply to the Manager, Head Office, Hapto;
or, A. U. RUDDER & CO., 40 PITT ST., SXDNUY, Forwarding Agents.
BENGER’S FOOD is
not only highly nutritive,
but is jnost easily digested
and is so delicious that it
is enjoyed by Infants, In-
valids, Convalescents and
the aged.
I
1
The London Medical Record
Sa\s: —“ It is retained when all
other foods are rejected.”
The British Medical Journal
says “ Benger’s Food has by
its exce.lence established a
reputat.on of its own.”
Benger’s Food is sold in tins
by Chemists, etc., everywhere.


.' > ■ 'mm&Hz:.- ••,:•.. - •■ - s
\j- t,
-w-
-*•’> vii. i L_
i r-&':7
■ga^i--ity
r.
sf'^JKf
AS AN INVESTMENT.
READ WHAT
AN AUTHORITY SAYS.
p
EOPLE cannot understand why Diamonds do not come down in nrice
Unless some new Diamond fields are discovered they will never come
down, and I think that proportionately they will go as much InXr
. ... “ the next ten I™™ a f ‘hey have in the last ten years. The reason
is this: Ten years ago it took less than one-third of the effort to produce
Diamonds as it does to-day. In other words, the strata of blue groundTn the
Kimberley Fields that were then worked were so prolific that Diamonds
were found practically on the top of the earth. After the very prolific strata
were worked out and it was necessary to go down a little deeper into the
earth Diamonds were not quite so plentiful, and to-day it takes at least three
times the effort to produce the same amount of stones it did ten years ago
Pearls are also going up in value at a rapid rate.
A
UNIQUE
INVESTMENT.
AS an investment, Diamonds afford advantages offered by nothing else.
f\ For years they have increased in value at about the rate of 10 per
cent, a year, which makes them as an investment about three times as
good as any bank. When you put your money in the bank someone
else has the use of it; when you put it in Diamonds you yourself have the use
of it, and the pleasure and satisfaction of wearing Diamonds are worth as
much as the returns from the investment. This is no idle statement, written
only with the view of selling our Diamond goods, but actual facts which you
can easily prove to be correct.
We are the onlj* Australian firm having a Warehouse in Hatton Garden,
which place, as everyone knows, is the Diamond Mart of the world. Our
long and careful study of the Stone Market has placed us in the unique posi-
tion of being able to buy more favorably than almost any firm. These
advantages are shared with our customers, while others, if they could buy as
cheaply, would probably retain them as extra profit.
Investment No. 1
Is a very handsome Drop Style NECK-
LACK for evening wear. 74 Fine Diamonds
and 27 pretty Whole Pearls. Price, £5O,
worth more now.
Investment No. 2
Is an exceedingly handsome Festoon NECK-
LACE, for evening wear, set with 117 bright
Diamonds and 26 fine color Turquoises. Price,
£75, worth nearer £lOO.
Investment No. 3
Is a NECKLET with 11 pendant pieces
set with 163 fine Diamonds, 12 large Pearls,
and 29 pretty Whole Pearls. Price, only
£135.
Investment No. 4
This is the Gem of the Collection—a
magnificent DIAMOND and PEARL COM-
BINATION NECKLACE and TIARA. Set
with 296 Exquisite Diamonds and 15 lovely
whole Pearls. Were we to mount one to
match, the price would run to about £5OO.
This one costs £385.
Investment No. 5
Is an Exquisitely Designed NECKLET, in
the form of 7-leaf Pendants and diamond
set square pattern back, t ie whole containing
225 Diamonds. Price, .£5O.
Investment No. 6
For lovers of OPALS and DIAMONDS this
should prove attractive. A beautifully
designed NECKLACE. Set with 211 Dia-
monds and 31 rainbow-tinted opals. Price, £l2O.
Investment No. 7
Superb Turquoise and Diamond NECK-
LACE, beautiful in design and finish. Set with
103 Diamonds and 37 lovely blhe Turquoises.
Price, £135, but worth quite 15 per cent, more
to-day.
Investment No. 8
Is a row of Single Stones—beautiful blazing
DIAMONDS, pure in colour and free from
blemishes. Each stone set in a separate
Collet, so that only the least particle of gold
shows round the edges of the stones; 59'stones
in all. Price, £250.
DIAMOND
JEWELLERY
Is like a coat of arras, it fixes the
standing of the wearer. It is the
only thing you buy to wear that does
not wear out.
DIAMONDS.
Nothing that you might select for a
wedding-gift would be more accept-
able or sensible, for Diamonds —such
as we sell—inc rease in intrinsic worth
with age, and never deteriorate in
beauty.
Although we give particulars of the NECKLETS only we have lovely things set with Diamonds,
such as Rings, Brooches, Bracelets, Pendants, Pins, Studs, from a few pounds upwards.
It is not necessary for you to be wealthy to possess a piece df Diamond Jewellery.
T
HERE ARE SEVERAL . .
TALKING MACHINES
. . BUT THERE IS ONLY ONE . .
WHICH IS MADE BY
fhe gramophone * Typewriter [td.
Read what ADELINA PATTI says:
This is a “JUNIOR HONARCH ” GRAMOPHONE,
Price £6 10s., and it is unsurpassed by any
Talking Machine at any Price.
Other Styles, £3 to £l4 10s.
rar
To The Gramophone Co.,
City Road, London.
Gentlemen,
s
I have much pleasure in stating that I have heard your
Monarch Gramophone, and that I consider it a very remarkable instru-
ment- of its kind, and quite the most perfect that I have ever heard.
It reproduces the human voice to such a fine point, that in listenin,
to the records of Caruso, Plancon, etc., it seemed to me as if those
artists were actually singing in my saloons. I have never heard
anything to equal it.
•H
g-Y-Nos Castle,
Ystradgynlais , R. S .0 . ,
Breconshire,
South Wales.
Australian Agencies— VlCTOßlA: A. P. Sykes, 227 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Messrs. S. B. Hunt & Co., 94 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
WESTRALIA: Llcssrs. Nicholson & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA: Messrs. Wertheimer, Benjamin, & Anderson, 71 Collins Street, Hobart.
QUEENSLAND: Messrs. Heindorff Bros., 210 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Represented all over
the World
WHOLESALE DEPOT FOR AUSTRALASIA—
AGENTS IN EVERY TOWN.
The r.ramophone and Typewriter Ltd., 163 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.


DRYSDALE’S ANTIBILIOUS PILLS
for biliousness, indigestion, headache, loss of appetite,
giddiness, &c., are prescribed by physicians of the highest
standing, who acknowledge their thorough efficiency in
all cases. 1/1 per box, post paid. F. J. Timbury,
chemist, Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane.*
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance
is solicited
The blundering Bent was forced to admit
the folly of his own administration lately. His
remarkable “weeding” contracts were to save
the Railway Department so many thousands, but
the few who took them, finding they could only
make 2s. a day, promptly threw them up. To a
deputation Bent admitted that, though the weeds
were in many places growing over the lines,
causing the engines to slip, it was nevertheless the
wrong time of year to weed ; and that “it seems
to me we are only wasting our money in doing
this weeding at all.” The trouble is that the
weeds are there : if they are allowed to grow up
the engines crush them into pulp and the effect is
much the same as if the line were greased ; and
whether Bent thinks weeding is waste of money
or not his blessed engine won’t get along with-
out it.
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PA7O OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
onlv Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. Sd.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28, Shoe-
lane, London, England.*
Martin’s Apiol and steel pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia. Not genuine
without the signature. Be sure you get Martin’s.
Sole proprietor, W. Martin, pharmaceutical
chemist, Southampton, England.*
&
JM
7
m
hill!
o
!
n
&
EW
A.
’NATURES
PLEASANT!
LAXATIVE’'
JHE ORIGINAL
AND ,
GENUINE.
Everything about California
Syrup of Figs is pleasant—
taste, appearance, action, and
results. It does not gripe, irri-
tate, or incommode in any way,
but just simply and effectually
assists the organs to perform
their functions with healthful
and natural regularity, and its
use may be discontinued as
soon as the system is properly
relieved and cleansed.
Sold in Australia in two sizes, 1/3 & till.
Of all Chemists.
California Fig Syrup Co., 32 Snow Hill, London. Australia— 7 Barrack St., Sydnty.
GARDNER'S SPA WATER
SPA %
BTHBUSKG) H#
nemmm
!«■ m ; 4u~.».
' *»«**-
!4U
t' UM* o *
Agents Wanted throughout Australasia.
SPA will be supplied in Casks, direct from our Spring
at Helidon, or in Bottle (aerated) from Our
Factory in Brisbane.
Full Particulars from
OWEN GARDNER & SONS, BRISBANE
FINEST SELECTED
AMERICAN LEAF.
DARK OR AROMATIC
TOBACCO
HIGHEST QUALITY
MANUFACTURED^
Last Year’s Girl.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I wonder where she’s got to —the girl of twelve
months gone ?
Her mouth was sweet and hot, too; her eyes like
beacons shone!
I wonder does she go still per ferry to the Beach ;
I wonder does she glow still to someone’s warm
love-speech !
I guess some fellow’s grabbed her (I’ve got another
girl!)
Ah me ! I often cabbed her with heart and soul
a-whirl.
I wonder does she talk on to him as once to me —
I ponder if they walk on the stars in ecstasy ?
It is a sweet sensation to stride upon the stars ;
To gaze down on creation through Space’s slip-rail
bars !
She used to make me think so; she made the
planets whirl
Before I took to drink so, and lost dear Last
Year’s Girl !
She used to make me fancy I stood aloft in Mars—
What sights a lover can see among the twinkling
stars !
Her hand in mine we rambled across the Milky
Way,
Or lip to lip we scrambled past Jupiter’s bright
ray.
We often sat on Saturn, her dear soft hand in mine
(And oh, her stocking pattern was something
superfine!)
One night our star lurched over and spilt us into
Space;
Such carelessness, Jehovah, amounts to a dis-
grace !
We quarrelled o’er some trifle —I lost my joy and
pearl;
And now I sit me sighful and muse on Last Year’s
Girl.
Heigho ! I’m sad and sorry we parted then—but
no !
There’s Next Year’s Girl for quarry to chase with
heart aglow. •
W.A.
GRANT HERVEY.
On the Tram.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ How long ago it seems,” said Nell, banding me
my ticket, “ yet it can’t be very long.”
“Asa matter of fact,” I replied brutally, for I
still bore her a grudge, “it’s precisely ten years.”
She laughed merrily.
“ How ungallant you are—Jim ! ”
The name came hesitatingly from her lips, and
then softly:
“ What children we were then ! ”
“ In worldly knowledge ! ” I agreed.
Her brows knitted ever so little.
“Of course,” I added hastily, “I am speaking
of my own accomplishments at that interesting
but distant period.”
Perhaps it was my own conceit, but I could
have sworn that her lips trembled.
“Why are you so cruel?” she murmured.
“ You might be a little more kind ! ”
“ If my memory serves me,” I answered, “ that
is precisely what I used to tell you.”
“You forget,” said Nell, reprovingly, “that
my position was slightly different then. At that
time people might have talked.”
“And now ?”
“How absurd you are. How could they—now
that I am married ? ”
“I must apologise for my stupidity,” I said
obstinately ; “but I fail to see that that fact can
possibly have deprived your acquaintances of the
power of speech.”
She looked severely at me, but I was absorbed
in the contemplation of an exceedingly neat shoe.
Nell is, by the way, rather proud of her foot.
“You are,” she said slowly, “either an utter
fool or a perfect actor.”
I bowed my head.
“ The umpire’s decision,” I remarked, “is in all
cases final.”
“Please try to be sensible for one moment,”
said Nell, pityingly. “ What am Ito think ? ”
“You must, on no account,” I remonstrated,
“allow your thoughts to be influenced by me.
Still, I have never previously been accused of
genius.”
“But why?”
“ I will tell you. When a man is disappointed
in love ”
Nell’s smile was distinctly encouraging. ‘ ‘ Were
you ever ? ”
“ I haven’t said so,” I retorted.
“No,” she admitted; “you haven’t said so;
but—er —what was she like ? ”
“I am afraid,” I said sulkily, “that I cannot
describe her. It was so long ago, and I’ve not
seen her since till quite recently.”
There was comparative silence for a moment;
silence, save for the rattle of the tram.
“Do you think,” she asked, tearing her ticket
to shreds as she spoke, “that she still cares?”
“ Who ? ” I asked, absently.
“ The —er —the lady we were discussing.”
“Oh!—well, you see, that is precisely what I
wish to know.” '
She flushed rosily.
“ If she is a woman of taste ” —she began.
“She is ! ” I interrupted with decision.
“Then you may make your mind easy,” said
Nell. “ But I’m afraid I must get off at the next
Stop. By the way, when are you coming out to
see us?.”
“I am content,” I said, resignedly, “to leave
the matter entirely in your hands.”
“ Well —I was thinking,” she said, musingly, as
the tram slowed down; “Jack will be going
sailing on Wednesday—and I hate sailing.”
“ Then I may ?”
“ If you particularly wish it,” she whispered
softly, “you may!”
SPINIFEX.
M.L. Premier Seddon, speaking from
bitter experience:—
He never would be a party to placing the interior
means of communication in the hands of private com-
panies. The Manawatu district had suffered from that,
and he also instanced the Midland railway. There was
no railway constructed by private capital that had not in
the end been inimical to the best interests of the State.
The Bulletin was reading in a Canadian
paper of a handsome new bridge to connect Rich-
mond and South Melbourne, and thought it must
refer to an Australian work until it saw that
“ the municipalities interested had paid the whole
cost.” Then it looked hurriedly for further
details, and found that the bridge is in Quebec
province, Canada.
Now that Russian methods are so popular
with the Tory papers, they may like to know that
in Russia a paper is liable to be suppressed and
have its type broken up and its right of publi-
cation taken away for a certain period, perhaps
forever, “if convicted three times of spreading
information which it knew to be false.” If such a
law were in force here, nearly every daily paper in
Sydney and Melbourne would have gone out of
business by now.
“ Jaybell,” the misanthrope :
Now, that the women of Australia have the franchise,
what are they going to do with the thing ? It won’t cut
up into dress lengths or scald cockroaches, or get the
old man's tea ready, or anything else to make it
worth the average woman’s while keeping it on the
premises. If, by a twist here, a gather there, and the
addition of a ribbon somewhere else, it could inveigle
last year’s millinery into false pretences, the franchise
would have a biased historian in every petticoat, and a
mafficker in every skirt. The kind of franchise woman
really needs is one that will catch mice, answer the front
door, eject the sewing-machine canvasser, look after the
sponge cake in the oven, serve as a hairpin, and keep
her skirt from blowing around on a windy day, and, if
the Constitution can’t supply that, the Constitution had
better be altered pretty sudden.
Dr. Morrison, London Times Pekin cor-
respondent, reports that Britain is getting left in
Northern China, and that the French, Russians,
Germans, and Belgians are snapping up all
the concessions. This is about the fourth time
within the last few years that China has been
partitioned industrially on paper; but no one
seems to get much forrarder. And all the time
the Chow goes on building modern arsenals and
learning to make modern artillery (a recent cable
reported that 80 odd arsenals were working day
and night turning out equipment for some army
or other), and to use magazine rifles. If only the
right kind of leader arises, the cosmopolitan
foreign devil in China will one day leave without
even waiting to pack his carpet bag, let alone
dispose of his “concession.”
Belfast Flax Spinners’ Association has
started to systematically prosecute for fraud those
spinners who supply alleged linen that is really
mostly cotton, and thereby destroy British export
trade by bringing British goods into disrepute.
On this subject the Age remarks :
If Victoria possessed a properly constituted Chamber
of Commerce an appreciation of its duties to the public to
protect them against frauds of this character might be
expected. In Great Britain, India and other centres of
English trade these chambers are peculiarly active in
hunting down frauds of this character. In Melbourne
the hunt is for subscriptions, and, as long as these are
forthcoming, no questions are asked as to whether the
business of the subscribers is conducted on honest lines
or the reverse. The bitter resentment expressed against
the Customs because this department tries to protect the
revenue and the public is an apt illustration of our com-
mercial morality. It is but fair in the interests of the
community that the Federal Government should at an
early date place a Merchandise Marks Act on the statute
book. Such a law at present exists in Victoria, but its
administration is carried out so perfunctorily that it is
practically a dead letter. The exposure of such frauds
on the public is being actively followed up in England at
present, and it is time something was done in Australia
to protect the public against the rapacity of “ firms of
the highest respectability” which are profiting so largely
from textile and other adulterations.
The S.A. Commonwealth representatives
have already sorted themselves out to suit the
seven districts into which Sheriff Boothby has
divided the State. The choice is as follows:
Adelaide, Customs Minister Kingston ; Port Ade-
laide, Labor Member Batchelor; East Torrens
(the third city seat), Solomon; Chamberlain (Mid
North), Speaker Holder; Angas (Lower North),
Glynn ; Flinders (the biggest constituency m Aus-
tralia, comprising the whole of the We3t and fax
North, including the Norther n Terntory,
Boynton; Barker (the South and South-East),
Bonython.
Vie. Women’s Political Association, the
other day, agreed on the following platform in
Federal politics:—
Social.—Equal marriage and divorce laws, equal paren-
tal rights over children, Federal Food Adulteration Act,
Federal Old Age Pensions Act.
Industrial.—Equal pay for equal work, Federal Fac-
tories Aot, Federal Conciliation and Arbitration Act,
Federal Patents, Copyrights, and Inventions Act.
Financial.— Federalising railways, federalising State
debts, Federal Life Assurance Department.
If the women had added “No more pawning of
our country to Cohen ” it would have been a fine,
sensible polioy.


RHEUMATISM
IN
SHOULDER
THE
'wrr.
7
7
(
Stop the Pain
POROUS
PLASTER
WITH AN
Allcockts
This painful trouble ran be relieved and cured by using an
Allcock's Porous Plaster. Warm the plaster before applying—
if not relieved by bedtime, place a hot water bag against the
plaster on that shoulder.
REMEMBER.— These plasters are good! for all pains and aches.
They have been in use 55 years, have been imitated more than any article
ever sold, and have made more cures than any other external remedy. They
are infinitely superior to any belladonna, capsicum or strengthening plaster.
Got the best—Allcock’s—The Plaster that Cures.
a
■m
$
-
K*jt
m
", ' T'“
£•: -
V;
£&i
hiu
m
m
m
wMwMm
«
SI
/•ry
11!
Hip
“ on the soul-saving industry :
Was stopped near Alexandria Park, Sydney, last night
at 10 o’clock by a lanky, consumptive-looking man who
asked me'to attend a mission tent on the Park, where an
“ after service prayer-meeting” was held from 10 p.m.
till midnight. I pointed out that it was very cold and
breezy, and the struggle for a crust forced me to leave my
bed at 5 a.m., so I naturally required a few hours’ rest.
He assured me with madness glaring out of his eyes that
he had not had rest or food for the past five davs and would
neither eat nor sleep till he had gathered for the Lord a
dozen pure white souls which would ensure him a seat
amongst the blessed. I jumped off the footpath and ran
and refused to stop when a policeman hailed me a little
farther up the street. I think he grabbed that policeman
for I heard a shriek come down on the wind A police-
man’s soul is sure to be a nice clean white one
One Buckeridge, who returned with the
ship Morning .after a spell with the Antarctic
exploring expedition, has been lecturing in Maori-
land after this fashion;
Speaking of the streng th of blizzards in that region, he
said the first that struck the ship after reaching winter
quarters, besides doing a lot of other damage, blew away
a five ton anchor through the ship’s rails. They found in
making tests of the effect of the cold that a bucket of
water would more quickly become solid ice than a bucket
of ice on a big fire would melt. A little kitten they had
2° tu 6 / or ’ w h en placed on the bulwarks, was frozen to
death in 2min. 7sec. It was dangerous to take quick
breaths during the extreme cold. A lieutenant of the
company had done so, and his wind-pipe became frozen,
then turning his head he had cracked it, and it had not
healed since.
The Wayside Pub.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Good ! here’s a wayside pub.—the Horse and
Jockey—
A bench before it and the woods behind.
Come, comrades, let’s exchange life’s roadway
rocky >
For wheresoe’er the cup may lead mankind.
Here a glad space, my masters, will we halt
And blithe anticipate the miles with malt.
For life should—like our literature—begin
With the suggestion of the sunlit sign ;
And was not Chaucer’s Tabard but an inn
Whereof the memory doth the heart incline
To recollect how all the goosequill tribe
Hath ever pubs, delighted to describe ?
Shakspeare’s great self was moved to maddest
mirth
Where Falstaff’s fooling shook the old Boar’s
Head,
And Scott, from a Black Bear in “ Kenilworth,”
His living legions to adventure led ;
From the Pied Merlin did Doyle’s Company
trudge,
And what without its Maypole is “ B. Rudge” ?
Fielding is but of inns a wild procession,
And the Three Pigeons well Noll Golds uithknew,
And gave not Thackeray, in lonely session,
A treasured tribute to the tavern, too—
It s in the Ballad of the Bouillabaisse
Born of that inn “in comfortable case.”
There s Shenstone’s verse which Dr. Johnson
quoted,
Who made the little fishes talk like whales ;
And at a Wayside Inn it was that noted
Down Longfellow, those pleasant Travellers’Tales;
And Lawson’s thirsty page is nowise scanty
In tribute to Australia’s b.tckblox shanty.
I know not if the inn’s been sung by Homer,
Unless, indeed, the Lotos Land was one ;
But everybody’s well aware that Omar
With praise of Persian pubs is never done.
And now, for sure enough, my memory’s lent,
To vindicate my verse with precedent,
Enough to make my tankard sparkle somewhat,
More than without these names my tankard might:
Shame on those sourly-slow whose pulses drum not
Swifter at mention of the men who write—
These mighty men of learning and of worth,
Who from so many pubs did issue forth !
N.S.W.
MOUSQUETAIRE.
Hawley’s Part.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Chisholm affair began in the most trivial
way. There were three at the table —Chisholm,
his wife Ella, and Hawley, their friend. Con-
versation had drooped, and in one of the casual
silences, Chisholm pulled out of his pocket a
tobacco-pouch of unique design—just the sort of
thing to appeal to the vanity of a man of
Chisholm’s temperament.
“ What do you think of this?” he asked. “ A
present from "Crane last week —not so bad, eh ? ”
And Chisholm passed it across to Hawley, who
examined it critically and appraisingly before
giving his opinion.
“Oh —so-so !” observed Hawley, returning the
pouch to its owner, who placed it in his pocket
again, quite satisfied with Hawley’s “ faint
praise”—coming from Hawley. Then the wife
broke in
“Now, that is too bad of you, Jack! You
have had that present all this time, and this is
the first I have heaid of it.” Turning to Hawley,
she continued, and there was keen resentment in.
her voice, “That is just my husband all
Mr. Hawley. He never shows me anything, or
tells me anything. I find things out by chance,
when his friends come to see him. I am just a
nobody in his estimation. Would you treat a
wife in that way ? ”
Chisholm stared across the table in blank amaze-,
ment. Not the reproach, which he thought
childish ; but the tone in which it was uttered,
the feeling, as it were, of malice, and the disre-
gard of the presence of a third person, to say
nothing of the appeal to that third person, caused
the husband to gaze in a wondering, uncompre-
hending way at his wife. It was a new and quite
startling experience in their domestic relations.
He waited to hear what Hawley would say, and
not without concern.
One could never be sure of Hawley. He would
be flippant and irrelevant when, in all conscience,
he ought to be serious, or he would be as grave as
a mummy when you expected nonsense from him.
With Ella Chisholm’s eyes still interrogating
him, Hawley hesitated, and critically regarded
the pattern of the tablecloth.
“ Why don’t-you answer me ? ” demanded Mrs.
Chisholm, impatiently. “ Don’t you think it
wrong of my husband ? ”
“I was thinking,” said Hawley, slowly and
without raising his eyes, “of a Russian proverb—
I think it’s Russian —about the risk run by the
third dog that interferes in a fight between two
other dogs. Do you know,” he inquired, meeting
Mrs. Chisholm’s steady gaze, “why I have
remained a bachelor ? ”
“But what has that to do with the way my
husband treats me?” she interrupted, and that
new tone in her voice, still persistent, gave the
husband a curiously disagreeable sensation.
“It has this to do with it; the dread of a
reproach like yours, to old Jack, here”—and
Hawley nodded towards his friend. Chisholm
felt inclined to reach over and slap Hawley on
the back, whilst his wife considered him a brute.
Hawley should . now have stopped. That,
indeed, was his intention, but Ella Chisholm’s
eyes were fixedly and staringly interrogative
still, and compelled him, in spite of himself, to go
on. He blundered along, and only sheer good
luck, and not his wit, preserved him from the
fate of the third and interfering “dog.”
Chisholm, silent all the while, stared hard at the
table, wondering if Hawley had taken too much.
Finally, the latter wound up sundry promiscuous
observations by saying—
“ Speaking as a bachelor, I hold matrimony to
be. an eternal blunder- well, not exactly that—
it’s a clumsy way of putting it ”
Chisholm looked puzzled and angry. Ella,
persismut and petulant, broke in—“ MiyTiawley,
I want to know whether you think Jack’s treat-
ment of me is right or not.”
“I am coming to that,” answered Hawley,
beginning to feel uncomfortable ; “I was going
to say something that would amuse you ; but you
want me to give my opinion of Chisholm’s
“That will do, Hawley. Drop it. My wife
had a row with the servant this morning, and got
the worst of it. That’s the real trouble. Ella,
sing that new song of yours. It will suit
Hawley.”
The te:: ion relaxed, and the situation, for the
present, was saved.
In their bedroom that night Chisholm reverted
to the subject..
“That was a foolish remark of yours this even-
ing, Ella. .What has Hawley to do with your
feelings, and my conduct as a husband ? ”
“So it went home, then?” came the prompt
retort, and there was a note of triumph in the
voice.
“No, it did not go home —in the sense you
mean.” He spoke quietly and gently. “But I
was thinking of your self-respect.”
“ Mr. Hawley agrees with me, and sympathises
with me,” came the reply. “I could read it in
his eyes.”
“ I want an early breakfast in the morning. It
will be ready, I suppose?” He spoke now with
sharp peremptoriness.
“Yes, of course—if Jane knows.”
“She will know if you tell her.”
Ella turned a quick glance upon her husband,
but his face was averted in taking down a book
to read.
“I want to be away by 8 o’clock,” he added,
quickly.
* * * »
When Chisholm returned to his home the next
day he brought with him from the city a bunch
of violets. He had purchased also a briar-wood
pipe. He gave the violets to his wife, who
smiled on the gift, and was on the point of
kissing her husband when he took the new pipe
from his pocket. “I bought this to-day, Ella,;’,
he said. “I thought you might like to know!”
The violets were instantly forgotten. Ella grew
red with indignation. So her feeling about
Crane’s present had been construed into mere,
disappointed curiosity. Her husband was a fool.
He had no understanding '
“ Show it to Mr. Hawley. "He will know how
to praise it,” she said, quttingly, and marched out
of the room, leaving the violets on the table.
Chisholm looked perplexed and hurt for a
moment, then his glance fell ori the pipe, lying on
the table. He picked it up, and turned it over in
his hand. A placid smile broke over his features.
“I’ll tell Hawley I got it for half-a-crown .”
A few days later Hawley was again at
Chisholm’s house. During the evening, when
Chisholm had left the room to go and chain up
his dog, Hawley said to Mrs. Chisholm, “I
hardly knew what to say the other night, but you
know my sympathies were entirely with you.
Chisholm is naturally cold and undemonstrative
—he is my friend, and all that—but that doesn’t
prevent me from seeing that he is of a very selfish
nature, only concerned about ”
Chisholm just then returned to the room.
Later, the two men being left together smoking,
Chisholm broke a long silence to remark, “My
wife can’t get over that little affair of the tobacco-
pouch last week . . . you know ? She is hurt
that I didn’t tell her about it before showing it to
you. She has sulked ever since. Extraordinary,
isn’t it ? ”
“Just a woman’s way—she’ll turn round in a
day or two. I wouldn’t fret about it,” answered
Hawley carelessly.
“I don’t want to fret about it. Of course I
thought it would pass off next day. I tried to
make it up, but it was no go. I have hurt her
feelings seriously in some way that I don’t under-
stand. As you say, I suppose, it will pass off, and
This is a capital briar-root.”
“ Wilson has sent up to ask if you will see him
for a minute or two,” said Mrs. Chisholm, coming
into the room.
Hawley was particularly struck by the hard
voice, and the omission of the customary “ Jack,”
and whistled long and low under his breath.
Left alone with Hawley, the frowning expression
on Ella Chisholm’s countenance changed to a
winning smile.
‘‘ I knew ycu understood and sympathised
with me, Mr. Hawley,” she began. “Jack
doesn’t; he understands his dog better than he
does me.” The smile went, as the husband’s
returning step was heard.
“Come and have a look at the dog, Hawley,
before you go. I’m going to enter her for the
show.”
Hawley gave Ella Chisholm an understanding
and sympathetic glance as he passed out. Rather
to Hawley’s surprise when saying good-night,
Chisholm offered his company for a short
distance. t
The two men proceeded in the darkness for
some paces, in silence. Then Chisholm took hold
of Hawley’s arm—an unusual thing, and Hawley
involuntarily shrank from the touch, but the grip
tightened.
“Look here, Tom,” (“Tom” also was unusual)
“going back to what I was saying inside. You
seem to have a good deal of influence with Ella.
Try and brighten her up a bit for me. She is
generally in good spirits when you are abobt. I
confess she puzzles me —this sympathy business
she harps upon so much. Every look she gives
me now is a stab. What she “wants I really don’t
know. I would make her happy if I. could —you
know that, Tom,/ I feel quite beaten over it.”
Chisholm paused.
“There was a time when I could please her and
make her happy-*-1 thought so, at any rate.”
Hawley felt the twitch of the fingers on his arm.
There was another and longer pause.
“I sometimes wonder, old man, whether Ella
did not make a mistake in marrying me.”
Hawley received a shock ; freeing his arm from
the other’s gx - asp, he began rapidly : “ What non-
sense you’re talking, man—your wife would not
exchange you for any man living, take my word
for it. And, look here, don’t talk to any other
man in the way you’ve been speaking to me.
Good night.” Tapping Chisholm on the shoulder,
he hurried across the street.
“Hawley—Tom, don’t go like that.” But
Hawley only waved his hand, and kept on his
way. “ I suppose I have made a fool of myself,
and lie’s gone off rather than tell me so,” Chisholm
exclaimed, shamefacedly, to himself.
Hawley had been in the habit of dropping in at
Chisholm’s about once a week. His visits now
became more freauent, and Chisholm—cold, un-
demonstrative Cnisholm—was grateful to his
friend for bringing back to his wife’s face the
smiles and gaiety that properly belonged to her.
* * * *
Chisholm, returning home one afternoon earlier
than usual, found Hawley taking tea with his
wife. He did not notice that she seemed more
glad than usual to see him, and that her eyes
sought his with an eager yearning, nor that a
softness filled them when he looked in her direc
tion. The evening passed very quietly. Once
w hen Chisholm turned to her, he found his wife’t


Hundreds of
Mr. Janies Hudson, 10 Lennox-street, Newtown, this
city, says :—“ I work in the Bondi sewer. There is a
constant drip-drip there, and when working it mostly
happens that one is wet through. Some parts are better
than others, but while working in the shafts one is con-
tinually damp, and this affected my health. My trouble
came with a bad cold in my kidneys, which caused
terrible pains in the back. I did my work, but it was
most fearful torture for me to do so, as you can well
understand. I was exceedingly bad witli these pains
when I saw Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills advertised,
and it struck me by the name of the remedy that it
should be good for my complaint. 1 procured a box, and
they cured me in fairly quick time. I could not take
them constantly, being afraid to use them while working
in the wet sewer, but I managed to take two doses a
week. The nature of my work caused me to have slight
returns of the pains, but I take a dose of Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills, which never fails to cure me. lam
never without them in the house.”
Yes ; thousands of them here in Sydney.
In offices, in workshops, in homes—everywhere they may be found.
But they should not be aching —Nature never intended them to ache. And
they wouldn t ache if it were not lor the delicate nature of those filters of the
blood—the kidneys.
i Y ? kn °w w^en a filter gets clogged up there’s going to be serious
trouble it it isn’t cleaned out. It’s exactly the same with the kidneys—they
become clogged and disordered through cold, overwork, strain, or faulty living—
the poisons they ought to take out of the blood are left and carried all round the
system. Backaches and Kidney Trouble follow as surely as night follows day.
But there s a cure a perfectly safe, sure, and proved cure—
ey Pills
T1 m y h i a , ve been curin g people in Sydney for years, curing every form of
Kidney Trouble—yes, even down to the last stages of Bright’s Disease and
Diabetes. They will cure you, too.
This claim is backed up by
Mr. J. ( a mi on 29 Balmain-road, Leichhardt, this
city, says : lor a few years I have been trying to get
the upper hand of kidney trouble, but all my efforts were
futile until 1 used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills I
used to have pains in the back, and these were so bad I
laid to lie about pretty well helpless, which will give you
a better idea of the serious condition I was in than any
other illustration. I had begun to imagine that it was
not in the power of medicine to bring me relief, when I
got a box of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. This
remedy began to do that which so many had failed to do.
A few doses gave me an immense amount of relief, and in
a little while cured me completely of pains in the back,
and put my kidneys in perfect order. I can give these
pills a first rate recommendation ; I know others who
have been cured by their use.”
S-STIDUKTESY
Mr. Mark Tierney, 6 Darling-street, Glebe, states: —
In reference to the statement made by me four years
ago, regarding my cure by Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills,
I am glad to inform you that I am still well, and have
been ever since. I am only too pleased to let anybody
know about this medicine.”
Ihe statement referred to is as follows :—“ For a con-
siderable time, I’ve been subject to severe pain across
the small of my back ; at times it extended down the
loins. I was always using liniments, but can’t speak
much of the result. I could not rest comfortablv a 4
night, thus had insufficient sleep. I saw Doan s BacK-
ache Kidney Pills advertised, and obtained a box. The
first few doses eased my pains, and, after taking a course,
I was thoroughly cured.”
For sale by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box (six bmrp«
of price by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
15s. 3d.),
or will be posted on receipt
BUT BE SURE THEY ARE DQJLMPS.
gaze fixed on him, and was conscious that she had
been watching him. The thought gave him a
curious feeling of pleasure. “Oh, Ella,” he began
brightly, “ I want to take you ” He did not
finish the sentence, for his wife’s eyes had
dropped, and the frigid look, which he had not
seen lately, came over her face, nor did she ask
him to finish his sentence. Soon afterwards Haw-
ley left. Next morning a novelty awaited Chis-
h°lhi. As he was about to start for the city, and
nod his wife a “ good-morning, '’ she came up to
him with a smile, and placed her hands on his
shoulders—just as she had done in the days when
they were yet lovers. He blushed like a school-
b °y- .
You never give me a kiss now, Jack, as you
used, to do,” she said, “ so I am going to give you
one. She pulled his head down and gave him a
double kiss. Chisholm trembled, and was too ex-
cited to return the kiss.
“Well—good-bye—off you go,” and his wife
P la y f - ully waved him off the verandah.
Chisholm started away, foolish with joy. And
then he remembered that he had not returned the
caress. Never mind, he would make sufficient
amends on his return in the evening. She had
made him happy, that was enough.
He felt a new man that day, and was alert and
bold—and successful “on ’Change.” That electri-
fying kiss—it gave him both vision and courage.
He left for his home at Brighton an hour before
his usual tinie, impatient to prove to Ella the
warmth of his heart. Ashe neared his gate the
thought struck him that he was behaving weakly.
He strolled leisurely into the garden, and then
turned to the side path that led to the dog’s ken-
nel. If his wife was on the watch for his return,
all the better that she should witness his non-
chalant home-coming. _
Molly greeted her master with a noisy welcome
that showed she, at least, had no doubt about his
having a warm heart beneath his cold exterior;
and, sure enough, the man could be demonstrative
when he was properly met, and the degree of his
affection not reduced to analysis.
“Now, that’ll do, Molly; down!”
Chisholm had purposely dallied with the dog,
hoping that his wife would come down to him.
Disappointed in his expectation, he went round
again to the front; Ella would be waiting for him
there. Disappointment again ! He entered the
house and looked into the dressing-room, but it
was empty, as was also the dining-room. Chisholm,
now impatient, visited his bedroom. The first
object to catch his eye as lie entered was an en-
velope stuck in the corner of the mirror. He
crossed the room and found that it was addressed
in the bold handwriting of his wife—
“ To Jack.”
At siglif of this simple inscription, his face
brightened. Of course, Ella had to go out, and
this was an explanation in case she was late in
returning. Chisholm opened the envelope, and
spread out the folded note with an eager smile on
his usually immobile countenance. The message
p a ? S did > n °H r 6? ??• pa ? e '
f7 f vfrßk h reached the last line his
f a^, had t . u , rned deadl { P ale - He staggered as he
made for the nearest chair.
™ ~i 717 “ L G d 1 through h,s lips as he
read the message a second time. For one moment
his eyes wandered vacantly round the room, and
X ?n"'T.rh\riTd? y bi prro , i\Tf t a e i
p 7nl? o red - F } m f n 7 the note from him,
e started up and reached down the object that
had arrested his gaze. A quick glance showed
that four out of the five chambers were charged,
Putting the weapon in his pocket he left the room,
got his hat, and went out of the house.
Chisholm returned within ten minutes. He was
extremely pale, with the look of a man recovering
from a long illness. He was walking very slowly,
a picture of irresolution. As he went round to
the back of the house he heard the whining of
his dog, who had recognised his footsteps. Going
to the kennel he unslipped the chain from the
collar, and caught up the spaniel in his arms, and
then returned to the house. He went up to his
bedroom again. Picking up his wife’s note
from the floor he struck a match, applied it
to the paper, and, putting it into tbe fire-
place, watched it burn out. Taking the re-
volver from his pocket he replaced it on the
mantelpiece, and sat down in an armchair,
For an hour he sat there, with his hands in his
pockets, and his head bent forward, staring at the
carpet. The dog was nestled up at his feet.
Rousing at last, Chisholm took the dog on to his
knees,
“Well, Molly, there’s only you and I now;
she hadn’t much regard for you; but there’s no
one to interfere now. We shall have it all to
ourselves.” The look of irresolution was gone.
He looked like a man who had been stricken
badly in a fight, but was determined to go on.
The next morning, as he was having breakfast,
he said to the servant: “ Your mistress won’t be
back for some time. I suppose she told you
before going.”
“No, sir, she didn’t say nothing,” answered
Jane.
Chisholm went to his office as usual, and every
day thereafter proceeded to the city, transacted
his business, and returned in the evening, reading
late into the night, the dog always at his feet.
On the third day, he heard casually that Hawley
had gone to Europe. He put his wife entirely out
of his thoughts. On the seventh evening—it was
Saturday—Chisholm had been in his bedroom
for some time, reading, when suddenly the
spaniel, who was on his knee, gave a low growl,
Chisholm looked up. In the doorway his wife
was standing. For a moment his heart stood
still, as though he were looking at a ghost.
Recovering himself quickly, he rose, and said
quietly, “What is it, Ella? What do you want
here?”
“I have come home, Jack. I want you to hear
me, and, if you believe my story, Jack, I
want to ask your forgiveness. If you don’t
believe me, you—you—’’(Ella looked at a point
above the mantelpiece where it had always hung)
“I have no wish to live ! ”
Chisholm reached forward a chair for his wife.
She walked to the chair and sat down. Chisholm
a^so sat down . holding the dog on his knee,
“Now, tell your story,” he said, and to the
penitent, his voice sounded hard and keen as steel,
* * * *
“ And you broke with with him that same
afternoon ”
“Yes; almost his first words on our meeting
were an insult to you—l knew you better than
that, Jack ; besides, you had always been a good
friend to him. I saw in a flash what he really
was, but I had repented before even we met, but
how could I return? You would have read my
letter in the meantime.” ou Q na e reaa
straight to Amy IW. f'•
“ Why have you taken a week to decide whether
y OU wanted to return home or not?”
“I hadn’t the courage. Amy wanted me to
come back the next morning, but I hadn’t the
courage. There you have the whole truth,
Jack ! ”
There was a long silence. From another room
came the tinkling of a clock striking the hour.
As the sound died away, Ella look up at her
husband.
“Do you believe me, Jack?” she asked,
faintly.
“ Do you believe me, Jack ? ” she repeated.
Chisholm reflected that he had been very lonely
the last few evenings. He knew, too, in his
heart, that his wife was speaking the truth.
“ Yes,” he said ; “I believe you !”
SPHINX.
The Cow.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The base ingratitude of the cow, and its progeny,
is notorious amongst cattlemen. I don’t think
there is any animal in creation so ready to return
evil for good as the bull family in general. I see
in Bulletin (23/5/’O3) where some wharf-lumpers
rescued a bullock from a flood, and four of them
were promptly knocked into the water by the
ungrateful beast. Now this sort of thing happens
every time, and if a man ever does a kindness to a
cow, the best thing he can do is to climb a tree
immediately afterwards, for a cow can’t climb a
tree, if it’s moderately upright in all its dealings
(the tree, I mean—not the cow ; it couldn’t be
upright if it tried).
When I was on the Towers in the early days I
was camped near the Talisman reef, on the bank
of a gully, that had been worked for alluvial.
About 25 per cent, of our time was devoted to
helping people to pull up horses that had fallen
down old shafts, or tilling up the holes that had
dead horses in them. Then a man started a dairy
in the vicinity, and, about the second day, he
came round wanting us to give him a hand to pull
a calf out of a hole. The four of us went, without
a murmur, although the thing was becoming a
trifle monotonous. He called at several other
camps on the way until we mustered about 16.
Then he wanted to go to another camp to
get some more help, but we protested that
there were enough of us there to eat any
ordinary-sized calf, so we went on to the hole,
where he had shear-legs erected and tackle ready.
He went down and made the rope fast and we
hauled for all we were worth. At last a four-
year-old bullock hove in sight and was safely
landed. No sooner did it feel the solid ground
under its feet than jt gave a bellow and charged
straight at us, where we were all in a string. It
would have scooped the whole lot, I believe, if
there had not been another shaft, between us and
it, down which it pitched head first and broke its
neck.
On another occasion I saw a bullock, on the
opposite side of the river to my house, lying on its
back in the water, where it had rolled down the
bank. It was unable to get round on to its feet.
I got a rope, went over in a boat, and after a lot
of exertion managed to pull it over so that it could
get up. As soon as it got on its feet it bellowed
and charged straight at me. I sprinted for the
boat and just managed to push off as the beast
was trying to gather me up on its horns It
plunged into the water after me and swain for
about 300yds. up the stream in pursuit of the boat
bellowing and snorting as if it thirsted for mv
life’s blood. If any reader knows anything that
excels the cow in base ingratitude I would like to
hear the particulars.
N.S.F.
My Letters.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Each night when I go posting
Warm letters to my Love,
Behold ! a royal hosting
Of stars goes too, by Jove !
With one young star a-gleaming
Upon my arm to port,
And one to starboard beaming,
We caper and cavort.
Nine billion stars go sailing
All vanguardwise ahead ;
With ropes of song a-traihng,
We march moon-chapletted.
A band of gods plays gaily
On lip-sweet harps above,
And strong young stars beat daily
Blows on the drums of Love.
On sun-wheeled bikes a-coasting
Come rear-guard stars a-whirl
When I (hooray !) go posting
Sweet letters to my girl.
The “Office” gleameth golden
With pearly lamps unspent,
In envelope close-folden
I cast Love’s implement.
We lift a postal chorus
Against the quaking sky,
And shake the cud of Taurus
Erom out his jaw, forbye.
One jovial star a-clasping
Each arm o’ mine we tread,
A thyrsus-dance, a-rasping
The tomb-rust off the dead.
With clank and clink and jingle,
With whips of salty song,
We make the earth’s hide tingle,
The sparkling hours along.
Then home —0, home we travel,
My young white stars and me—
O ho ! we scratch the gravel
And part in ecstasy.
Then lo ! the stars go ghosting
Through far-olf glen and grove
Till next I go a-posting
Big letters to my Love !
V.
GRANT HERVEY.


Bad Blood. Boils
Suffered Greatly, Skin in Terrible Condition. Blood Filled with
■ii«A All Remedies but One Failed.
Mr. H. Feder, of Prospect, South
Australia, sends us his photograph
and says:
“About two months ago I began to
feel badly all over. I was easily made
tired. I lost my appetite and was very
nervous. In a few days my arms and
neck were all broken out with large
boils. For weeks my suffering was
terrible. I tried remedy after remedy,
but without relief. A friend told me it
was not my skin but my blood that
needed help, and urged me to try Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla. He said he knew many
people who had been cured by it. I
bought a bottle, and I began to feel
better at once. My appetite returned,
my food digested better, and I felt
greatly encouraged. Before the bottle
was all used my blood was pure and
the boils had entirely disappeared.”
“The World’s Createst Family SVledicine.”
Boils, rashes, pimples, eruptions, eczema, etc., are but evidences of trouble
down deep in, the blood. Don’t treat the skin. Treat the blood. Take Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla, the medicine that has been curing impure blood for 60 years.
When your blood is pure the skin will be Smooth and healthy. And you will
feel brighter, better in every way.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla isn’t like other Sarsaparillas. .It is made differently, con-
tains stronger medicines. Don’t experiment with imitations.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Makes the Blood Pure and Rich
Keep your bowels in good condition by taking Ayer’s PMls*
NR
i
w
AUSTRALIA’S -
—SWEET SIN&ER.
Victor J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,”
handsomely bound, makes a fine presentation
volume to friends abroad. Post free from Bul-
letin office, ss. 4d.
Works by Francis Adams:
(Publishers’ Remainders, offered as Second-Ha nd.)
Poetical Works, complete edition, printed
in Brisbane by Muir & Morcom. Paper
covers; 4to. Only a few copies remain.
Price, ss. ; postage, 4d.
Australian Essays, printed in Melbourne
by Wm. Inglis & Co. Paper covers, Bvo.
Only a few copies remain. Price, 2s. 6d. ;
postage, 3d.
Songs of the Army of the Night, printed
in Sydney. Boards, Bvo. Only a few copies
remain. Price, 2s. 6d.; postage, 3d,
THE BULLETIN BOOKS.
Sole Distributing Agents :
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
Special Wholesale Agents :
New South Wale# .. Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd.
Queensland ~ .. Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd
Victoria George Robertson Proprietary.
Tasmania .. .. .. George Robertson Proprietary.
South Australia .. E. S. W:gg & Son.
Westralia .. .. E. S. Wigg So Son.
Auckland and district Wildman, Lyell, & Arby.
Others to be appointed.
Sold by All Leading Booksellers.
The Bulletin Newspaper Go., Ltd.,
214 George-st„ Sydnet, Australia.
,„ r ._ on
®%> bed >tick to tKe,
eh what?
pir
oubtedjy when you
Km MM of 3orfj
t
151
gUiNEA.
<*, _
’^Justx!
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Corner George & Market Sts., SYDNEY
The Best Luncheon in Town from ONE SHILLING, served from 12 sharp till 2.30;
Dinner from 5.30 to 7.30, same price.
The Most Convenient Place for Ladies and Gentlemen visiting the Theatres to dine at.
N.B.— Visitors oply pay for wljat tfccy actually bayc.
TERMS.—The Convenient and Modern System of paying for a.
room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
Apartments: BEDROOM, Single, 3s. per day; Double, 6s. per day.
engage booms at ROBERTS’ HOTEL, SYDNEY.
NOTE.—Send to ROBERTS’ WINE and SPIRIT STORE, MARKET ST., next GEORGE ST.,
for REVISED PRICE LIST. COUNTRY ORDERS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
M.D., C.M., li.R.C.P.E., LR.C.S.E.,
L.F.F.S.G., L.M., etc.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great
Britain, Victoria, New South Wales,
etc.,
The Eminent Specialist, whose unparalleled success in the Treatment of Blood and Nerve
Diseases has earned for him a reputation unequalled by any other Specialist in Australia, may be consulted
daily, personally or by letter, at “ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 Elizabeth-st., Sydney. Old and Obsolete
Methods discarded. DR. MARTIN’S latest treatment has proved absolutely effective in all cases of Blood
Disease, Nerve Affections, Paralysis, Loss of Energy, Lung, Heart, Skin, and all
Chronic Diseases of Men and Women. His Consulting Rooms are replete with all the
latest and most scientific improvements in Electric Appliances, etc. Country Patients
treated by Correspondence at their own homes. Advice and Medicine, One
Pound. All Sufferers should write for a copy of Dr. Martin’s Latest Medical Work
“THE ‘ KNOX-MERCEIi ’ TREATMENT IN DISEASE.” This work should find a place in every
household, as it contains a full and explicit account of tl\e Most Wonderful Treatment of the Present
Ape. It has been the means of Curing Thousands who fodowed out the instructions contained
therein. This Marvellous Treatment Cleanses and Rejuvenates the Whole System, and is the Cheapest
Treatment in Existence, as nothing but the Book is required.
Price, 55.; by post, ss. 6d.
CONSULTING HOURS: 10 to 2 and 7 to 9 Daily.
“ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
“ Pefcramos: Was once behind when the Woods-
Williamson Co. was playing “ Hands Across the Sea” at
Adelaide. “ Hands Across ” is a fine drama for Woods
as there is “an escape from prison ” scene, wherein he
has a chance to knock down 14 French bobbies with a
single biff. The author, however, rules that he must
get arrested towards the end of the scene, but on this
particular night, Woods, having got over the prison wall,
and the lightning change to the “ exterior of the prison ”
having taken place, no one seemed particularly anxious
to come and arrest him. Seeing him severely punching
the air and rushing round, in a circle instead of making
off down the street, as any ordinary prison breaker
would have done, someone let down the rag. Another
someone promptly hoisted it again. After it had gone up
and down some six times Woods was at last discovered
surrounded by a small army of gendarmes—arrested at
last. The stage manager and not the law was to blame.
The poor sups. Couldn’t get to Woods because there was
no entrance left after the lightning change scene had
been effected. When the minions of the law did make
an entrance it was probably through the gaol ventilators.
“ G.” : Saw a peripatetic sword-swallower performing
in the street t’other day. His “ manager ” took up a
collection at each stand, and gathered a crowd by the
furipus ringing of a spavined dinner-bell and the lifting
up of a voice like the cries that come out of purgatory :
“ Now then, boys, come along, sixpence more an’ ’e’ll
swallow the lot. Come along, gents ; who’ll give a tanner
to see ’im swallow six swords four feet long ? Fourpence
more an’’e’ll swallow the lot,” &c., &c. The fourpence
wasn’t forthcoming, and the show dragged. A small boy
asked the manager if the performer wouldn’t swallow
the swords unless he got the fourpence. “No, gents;
must ’ave fourpence before ’e can perform.” Then up
rose a burly contributor with beer and blood in his eye :
“Then give me back my dashed tuppence.” Those
swords were swallowed right there.
“ Sounding Board ” : I want to say a word about
musical critics, one or two of whom I know by sight.
Was at a concert in Sydney Town Hall. At the interval
these critics trooped in behind tha scenes to personally
interview the artists, whose musical capabilities are
supposed to be their whole concern. Later on, some of
the singers re-appeared andjclu tered round one or two
of these “ critics’’—the prettier the artiste the more she
seemed to cluster. I have been told, possibly t>y persons
of dubious reliability, that X of this paper and Z of that
one have their favorite artistes, not always of striking
ability, and that concert managers do well to engage
these artistes, in order to put X and Z in good humor,
the difference in the notice when the favorite artiste is
engaged being quite visible—according to my dubious
informant. Anyhow a critic who wishes to be considered
fair should avoid acquaintance with the people he
criticises. If this is not possible, he need not let them
cluster in public. Clustering is much pleasanter, too,
when done in comparative seclusion.
The loves of two leading members of a certain theatri-
cal company provide lots of entertainment for other
people behind the scenes. The frequent quarrels of the
amorous pair are dramatic in their intensity, and then
the reconciliations O, the reconciliations ! Middle-
aged Strephon and youthful Phyllis were on mutual
“ strike,” the other week, when friend Snapshot, of the
illustrated press, came along with his camera to get
photos of the company—dressing-room studies, green-
room groups, and so forth. He found Phyllis m low
spirits. Shp had no heart for being photographed unless
they could be taken together. Snapshot, the ambas-
sador of love, went to Streph’s dressing-room and ex-
plained the situation, and, after a faint pretence of
indifference, the happy man consented to reconcile “the
damsel would come and adore him in his den. Then
Snapshot took the message to Phyllis, vvho flew to the
arms of her one and only, and as they glued their ups
together in a lingering kiss, Snapshot photographed
them.
A very old performance of “ Othello ” was that given
by an actor, or alleged actor, named Kemble at Windsor
(N.S.W.) in the early fifties. Kemble had no company,
but he advertised his show vigorously, and some kind of
an audience rolled up at the old court-house, where the
bench did duty as a stage. Kemble emerged from the
magisterial room with one side of his face black ana
commenced a dialogue between Othello and lago. hue
reciting Othello he turned the dark sl^ e .f f hls
ance to the audience. The public stood it fo !! ab b u J- h''
minutes; then without waiting to see what Desdemona
would be like, it threw almost everything portable at the
show. The co. left by the back door, and fled with One-
half of its face black, across the South Creek bridge,
and vanished into the bush, Kemble dropped out of
stage life after that, and ended his days selling matches
in Sydney streets. .
“ John Quartz’-' : Up North Queensland there is a good
season awaiting a decent comic opera and musical comedy
co. We have had Dan Bar r y, day’s Wa x worksa so-so
vaudeville co. and a just-?o dramatic co. in shock and
shriek dramas. Last good happening this way was
Dolores. Send along a good singing and darn jf
similar to, say, Pollard’s Co.
“T.D.”: In his “Breaking of the Drought” melo
drama, Blandolt gives an excellent picture of Paddy’s
Market, Sydney, from the scene-painter’s point of view*
Buildings, sleepy horses in stationary vegetable carts,
yawning old lady at a coffee-stall, the early morning
drunk, and the ravenous assemblage of kids, are all as
they should be—yet there is one thing wanting. Bland-
olt has forgotten the Chinamen. Paddy’s Market
without the all-important Chow bargaining over his
cabbagee is Waterloo without Napoleon. In the days
when I used to take an early morning stroll through
Patrick’s bazaar, there used to be a quaint old Chow with
a fat front and a beautiful long silken beard, who acted
as a sort of father confessor and adviser-in-chief to all his
compatriots, and gave himself the airs of an emperor.
Now, if Blandolt could only have engaged that highly-
respected Confucian.
Who was the first fiend to bring in that Hall horror,
the “turn” done by two alleged male comedians?
The brothers Buncombe —Bob and Bill—enter and stand
facing each other. They are togged out in an insane
fashion and lean on heavy crutch-handled sticks. Brother
Bob bangs his stick on the floor, and apropos to nothing
at all observes, “T was a-comih* erlong th’ street.” Here
Brother Bill chips in, like a Greek chorus, and says, “ Oh,
you vas a-comin’ arlong th‘ street.” Bob replies, “ Yes, I
was a-comin’ erlong George-street.” Bill: “Erlong
George-street. Well?” Bob: “When all at wonst I
met a man.” Bill: “You met a man?” Bob:
“Yes, sir, a man cornin’ in the opposite direction.” Bill
(with the air of a man who scents a State secret) “Oh!
you met a man cornin’ in the hopposite direction. Well,
wot then?” Bob: “I was carryin’ a new-laid hegg.”
Bill: “A new-laid hegg.” Bob: “I said a new-laid
hegg.” Bil': “ And 1 said a new-laid hegg.” Bob : “ Sir,
I said I said a new-laid hegg.” Bill : “ Yes ; I said I said I
said a new-laid hegg. Well?” Bob: “I said to him
‘ You’re a fool !’ " Bill : “ What! You said to him that I
was a fool, did yer? Take that!” (Here Bill bashes
Bob’s hat over his eyes.) Bob (from the depths of the
hat): “ No, no ; I honly said to him ‘ You’re a fool, that’s
all. Just you’re a fool.” Bill: “Say it again, will yer?
Take that!” (Subjects Bob to gross personal ill-usage
amid shrieks of laughter from an audience that would
sit out the “ Comedy of Errors” without a smile.)
Pinero’s earliest problem play was “The Profligate,”
which differed from “ Tanqueray” in its bearings on the
duty of the sexes. The Profligate’s giddy bachelor past
accounted for all the trouble in his married life, but
Pinero couldn’t make a convincing character of the
respectable penitent sinner. The play had merely a
success of novelty in England, nor was it any good to
Brough and Boucicault in Australia.


WATERPROOF COATS
RUBBER BOOTS
GOLOSHES 28 to 4/s.
Carriage Free
to anv part of
N.S.VV. if this
advertisement
is cut put and
sent with re-
mittance.
Made to wear—to
give satisfaction—to
look well to the end
of their long service.
See our Stock.
PERDRBAU & CO.,
RU33ER MER - HANTS,
Onlv One Address-
-270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
■
CURIOUS
BOOKS
PHOTOS.
The Best Address for
English, French,
German
Books and Photos.
Apply—
-116 BOX, PARIS.
2/- for Catal. and Miniat.
WE SHIP ON APPROVAL
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles. Fully warranted.
\gssg>£2. lo t0£5.5.0
Dun.op Tyres, Steel or Wood Rims,
Free Wheels, Mud Guards and Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID
To any Port in Australasia.
TYRES, ACCESSORIES,
Sporting Goods and Sewing
Machines Half Usual Prices.
Write for Catalogue and Special Offer
Using 2sd. Stamp. Address Dept 340 D
Mead Cycle Co .
Chicago,
U.S.A.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
32 & 34 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Australasian Representatives for
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK*
Boiler Feed Pump.
vm- SEND FOR CATALOGUES.
James Simpson & Co., Ltd. London and NO w ar k
Worthington Pump Company, Limited , London
Warren Webster & Co. now jersey.
Enquiries Inyited for ......
Worthington Pumps
Webster Feed Water Heaters & Purifiers
Cincinnati Air Compressors
TANGYBS
OIL MINES
Stationary and Portable,
For Shearing 1 , Wood & Chaff-Cutting,
Pumping, Electric Lighting, &c.
Sole Representatives in Australia :
BENNIE, TEARE & GO.,
. Mining & Engineering Furnishers,
Sydney, Melbourne, Perth, Coolgardie.
IRRIGATING PLANTS a Speciality.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
For Sa. 1 e a,ncl "to arrive
74 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE : 435 Bourke Street.
PUMPING MACHINERY of every description, Woodworking Machinery, English and American Engines, Boilers,
Injectors Reducing Valves, Steam Gauges, Steam Traps, Laundry Machinery, Painters’ and Bakers’
Machinery Eng neers’ Machine Tools, Shaf ing, Plummer Blocks, Pulleys, Hangers, Couplings, Collars,
Lubricating Oil, Brunton Pocket Transits, Shedd’s Electrical Fans, Hoisting Engines and Boilers.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
60 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
ALL KINDS OF
ENGINES & BOILERS
PUMPS,
MINING MACHINERY
And APPLIANCES,
ENGINEERS’ TOOLS & FITTINGS,
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY,
BTC., BTC.
T.
HAVE
. GOODALL & CO., w hay st., Sydney
in stock and to arrive- Portable, Traction, Vertical & Horizontal Boilers,
Engineers and Mining Tools, Saw Mill Machinery, Pulleys, Belting, Etc.
Irrigation and Pumping Plants a Specialty. New and Second-Hand Machinery always available.
Size, s}" x 3|" x s*.
B§T We are Direct Importers
AND HAVE FOK SALE —
Snow Duplex Pumps
(all sizes for all purposes),
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling
and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shaft-
ing, Hangers , Bearings, Collars, etc.
Engineers' Tools and Fittings, Valves,
Cocks, Gauges, etc., Cast, Tool and
Mining Steel, Wire Ropes and all Requi-
sites for Contractors, Engineers, Saw
Mills and Mining Proprietors.
R. L. Scrutton & Go. Ltd .
97 Clarence-st., Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN
KEEN BLADES” PRUNER
(GAFFVS* PATENT)
Will
Cut
Close
Without
Injuring
the
Bud, or
Crushing
the Bark.
MADE IN SHEFFIELD.
For Sale by all
Seedsmen and
Ironmongers-
Price,
8/6
each,
or posted to any
town in N.8.W.,
6d: extra.
K GUTHRIDGE, LTD.,
i-. 71 CLARENCE STREET.
DISTRICT AGENTS WANTED. Testimonials furnished on Application.
o^L
35 YEARS PROVEN
Ta*«
inS ee
i
mm
■fffmr ti.
/ (tmroucmoutGreat Britain a mtCotONits
lmun Cat hart Ptus PurfU'wsri#**
J “ COACULINE '
TR APPARENT ,JCIE M|HT fOR AIIBROKEN AgTICLES
