

McEWAN'S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY. IRROY’S CHAMPAGNE
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Coco
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet .
k. cs-. 'w^L i a?zs.xiMrs co.,
!07 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and second-hand plants always available.
Send for
Prices and
Particulars.
Descriptive
Catalogues
On
Application.
Most
Up-to-Date
Machines.
MEDICAL, CERTIFICATE.
“ Ararat (Victoria), 25th Aug., 1902.
“ During the past few years Eczema has become of very
frequent occurrence, especially in children. In the treat-
ment of this troublesome affection the usual medicinal
remedies failed in many cases to give relief, and I was very
pleased to have a new preparation, named ‘ Oleac,’ put into
my hands for trial. I can recall to my mind three eases of
children in which the usual remedies had no beneficial
effect, and the application of ‘ Oleac ’ according to the
printed directions removed all the irritation of the skin.
I have also heard of many adults using the ‘ Oleac ’ with
great benefit. —JAMES SMEAL, Surgeon, &c., Ararat ”
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK :
By Sixty Bulletin writers, doth, 800 pagaa ;
price, 4s. 6d. ; postage, 6d.
SOLE DISTRIBUTING AGENTS I
EDWARDS, DUNLOP & Co., Ltd., Sydnay and Brisbane.
KIRCHNER & GO
“ a-rand Paris, 1800.
Sawing & Woodworking Machinery,
Vertical & Horizontal Band Mills,
— ™ THE WORLD’S RECORD
(HIGHEST POSSIBLE AWARD.)
SOLE AGENTS
GIBSON, BATTLE & GO., » Pitt street, SYDNEY.
“HERVEY’S RACKAROCK”
17 Yrars’ Unbroken Record as a Standard Australian Exp'osfve. Cor. CLARENCE & KINC STS., SYDNEY
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831. WHISKY.
HOBART.
ptiley’s Orient fjotel
DUNEDIN, N.Z.
CITY HOTEL
(Fibst Grade).
J. A. TURNER > - Proprietor.
Tawny Port
Invalid Port
Golden Sherry
V.O. Frontignac
Rich Constantia
PENFOLD’S WIN
S
No. 0 Claret
No. 1 Claret
Chablis
Tokay
Muscadine
Championship of Australia, Melbourne, 1902.
Championship, Adelaide, 1902.
DIGESTION
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
PRICES PER FOOT OF SINGLE AND DOUBLE
BELTING :
2 2J 3 3J 4 6 6 8 10 12 inch.
-'7 -/9 -/10J 1/- 1/2 1/6 1/11 2/8 8/4 4/-
1/2 1/4 1/7 IAO 2/2 2/11 3/5 4/5 5/7 6/9
AgenLt in every State.
Made by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan
Lamp.
EOmWAM
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality 'of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have, no Worthless
Imitations.
the mm a mm
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian .Branch: 16 Carrington-street,
WfNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Q'nsland Depot—Central Buildings, Edward-st., Brisbane.
Mining: and Dredging Plants. Engines, Boilers, &c.
Fowler Traction Engines.
The Ciyde Engineering C?y. Lip |
Desiccating Plants.
Hopper Waggons, &c.
PROOF
£a/ev
USE
Head Office:
10 BLICH ST., SYDNEY
JOSHUA’S^r
Boomerang
Whisky.
A Blended Spirit 8 and 9 years old of
Undoubted Quality, Purity and Flavor.
Very Moderate in Price. ,
S. HOFFNUNG & CO. (1902) Ltd.
SoS© Agents for N.S.W.
A NICE PRESENT.
The New Combination PIN-
CUSHION, THIMBLE & KEEL
HOLDER, nickel plated, plush
top. Clamps on to any table
by means of a spring. Price,
only 2s. ; post free.
Star Novelty Company,
229-231 Colline-ct.,
Melbourne.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
\\ ill find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS.
Queen's Mansions, 25 Beaconefleld Parade
BT. HILDA.
fJUIE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
r. V olo ’!‘ es - 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges mucfi lower than licensed hotels. City,
i-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
W HEN buying: a KEROSENE QAB BTOVE insist
on getting a noiseless
JUPITER
The Very Latest
Invention
Borns Noiselessly,
Without Smell
or Smoke,
Perfectly Safe.
Obtained First. Prize
wherever exhibited.
Stocked by all Leading Hardware Merchants and
Storekeepers.
Sole Agents for Australasia —
Melson and Robertson,
17 LOFTUS ST., SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
Vol 24.— JMo. 1196. j
[Saturday, January 17, 1903.
Registered at the Genera! Past Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as n N-iwsnansr.


Boor trade Advertisements.
*4 TTFATHFR AND FFRN SONGS OF SCOTLAND AND MAORILAND."—Handsome Book aw
nUAimiK ALVJ 300 pp„ with Portrait of Author. Only to be had Torn J LIDOFTT 6
KELLY, care New Zealand Times, Wellington, N.Z. Post free, ss. LIDDELL
THE LATEST BOOKS BY THIS WEEK'S MAIL.
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Ihles, Lead Smelting, 12s 6d, postage 9d.
Whitmore, Last Maori War in New Zealand, 12s 6d, p. li
Tarkington, Tw® Vanrevels, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
On the Heels of De Wet, 3s 6d, p. Gd.
Maclaren (lan), His Majesty Baby, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Walker, Zealandia’s Guerdon, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Onions, Tales from Far Riding, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Lowell, Early Prose Writings, 6s, postage 6d.
Howes, Simple Roof Trusses, 10s, p 8d
Jenkins, Motor Cars, 255, p. Is 6d.
King, Behind the Granite, 3s 6d, p 6d,
Hegan.Mre.Wigga of the Cabbage Patch, 2s 6d &Js 6d n 6d
Meade, Confessions of a Court Milliner, 2s 6d & 3s 6d p P 6d
Norris, Credit of the County. ’ oa '
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doon South of King St.) & at Melbourne. Adelaide, Brlabane & Uadaa
MAORILAND, AND OTHER VERSES,
By Arthur H. Adamt, author of “ The Nazar ene. ,>
The beat book of vewes yet produced by a Maorilander. Every etudent of
Australasian literature should be acquainted with it. Price, 55. ; nostaee of .11
booksellers, or from the Publishers, ' U all
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Ltd., 214 George-St., Sydney, Australia.
F ° r tlie LUJMQ.S, the THROAT, the VOICE.
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs ! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
a
A. The Larykx, or organ ot
voice.
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissepted King-
-1). A lobe of one ot the lung*
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG,
and
Invaluable to
cINGERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAIvEBS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS} in Tins, 1s 6d ; from the Proprietor G HTJUROv / u •
free on receipt of stamps. Sydney Depot: 5 and 7 pr uv Queensland—-pos
Melbourne, Agents. *PLACE, and EKEaON, vUUMWA DE & CO.,
THE RED PAGE.
LET ’S suppose, for the sake of example,
that you would like an income of .#2,000 a
year. Of course the supposition is merely
hypothetical. Now see how Max Pember-
ton earns that income : his last novel, The House
Under the Sea, gives a oapital clue.
To begin: Pemberton has eight other novels
on sale, —most of them past their youth, but
all selling, and some selling well. Guess his
average income from their royalties at #BOO
per an. Then the new book should be
worth #4OO for serial rights, considering Pem-
berton s reputation and the prosperity of the
magazines that welcome him in England and
America. “Advance on royalties” Should be
another #4OO ; which leaves #4OO for the value of
further work during a year—probably not much
beyond the mark. Discount the whole, and say
Pemberton’s income is #l5OO only : how does he
earn it ?
In the first place, by Keeping On. As Kipling
has pointed out, one book rarely makes money for
the writer of fiction. It is like emptying earth to
fill a pond : you dump in a cart-load, and nothing
is seen : another disappears in the same way :
with the third you may get a little mound to show
above the water ; but it takes half-a-dozen cart-
loads before you view an'v substantial fruit of
your labour. A new writer usually succeeds
nowadays by dint of persistent advertisement:
every new book enlarges his audience, sends
readers in search of. his old books, and
prepares readers for his books forthcoming :
when he has p finished half-a-dozen he is begin-
ning to be known, and “his name” sells his
product.
Provided that his books have selling quality—
that they suit purchasers. Here is Pemberton’s
second point : “he gives his public what they
want.” \ English fiction is bought mainly by
semi-literate people who want excitement of one
kind or another : Pemberton, with his eye on
his income, occupies himself with no high theories
of Art, takes no trouble about style, but—lie
provides excitement. His stories are generally
“rattling” and readable; and, for momentary
relaxation, they are not to be despised even by
superior readers such as—you, for example * upon
a'niubd, even the Hundred Best Books (as Jerome
suggests) become fatiguing. With a disli of strong
sensation provided, .the aye age reader does not
cavil about artistic sauce.
But Pemberton, in avoiding the Scylla of
writing too well, takes care not to be wrecked on
the Charybdis of writing too badly. He writes
on the average reader’s level, but he expresses
himself a trifle better than the average reader c an
express himself. And his ideas certainly do not
come either to the average reader or to the average
writer. His plot is usually fresh and striking
(improbability, the possibility admitted, does not
matter). Then, having found his sensational plot,
Pemberton stir.-* it up. He does not make the
interest wait on the last step of a climax ; his plot
falls downstairs at every step/or nearly falls and
recovers by a hairbreadth ; and so the story keeps
alive.
The plot of The House Under the Sea seems
bald enough when put in a line or two. In a
little-known group of Pacific islands the land
extending beneath the sea is hollow with crevasses
and caves, says Pemberton. A clever madman
has bottled up the openings and made the caves
habitable. At his command is a gang of despe-
radoes who act the part of wreckers, lure unsus-
picious vessels ashore with a deceitful beacon,
murder the crews, and divide the booty with
their chief. The madman, sane enough in
some ways, has married a Sweet Girl,
and holds her a prisoned witness of his dreadful
deeds. Comes a Noble Sailor; . outwits the
pirates; brings death to the madman; and rescues
the Sweet Girl (for himself). Good sensational
material; and Pemberton improves it witli a
miasmatic vapour that covers the islands and
sends everybody to sleep or death ; by an octopus;
and by other enlivening trimmings.
But the real art of the story, for the sensational
novelist’s audience, comes in the cast of parts.
The Noble Sailor is always popular—and he is
British The book is to sell in U.S.A.—and
the Sweet Girl is American. But the low,
despicable Madman is a Hungarian; and his
villainous, piratical crew are “fat Germans,
sleek Frenchmen, Greeks, niggers’’—without
a true - born Englishman among them. If
Pemberton were a German novelist, he would
write of brutal English ; if he were French, he
might write of dogs of America ; but, as his book
is to sell in Britain and America—and Australia,
he panders to the national bias of his audience.
Every bad man is a “ foreigner ” ; every good
man is “ one of the blood.” Add that the book is
thoroughly “ moral ” (in the conventional sense),
with even a twang of conventional religion ; and
you can now go away and establish our initial
hypothesis, returning for congratulations when-
ever you like.
♦
Here, m the tribe of recent novels, comes one
really worth paying half-a-crown for (and the ex-
penditure of half-a-crown cannot lightly be re-
recommended these-times). It is The Sentimental
Warrior, by Edgar Jepson (Grant Richards)—
written well and cleverly. A baronet makes
an early marriage which, later, he deems a
blunder, and so consigns his son to obscurity.
But the son has his father’s will-to-power, and
presently he attains power—marrying a countess
and compelling paternal recognition. The
value of the book comes in the recital
of the son’s struggle, in the charming
incidental characters and comments, and
in the fresh and refreshing point of view.
Fancy: the hero commits a burglary, justifying
himself by the argument that he is aristocrat and
artist, and needs bourgeois gold to make a
loving-cup for his bride. The burglary is
quite successful; the gold is won; the loving-
cup is made; —and nothing follows ! Not the
ghost of a Nemesis haunts the- hero’s happy
ending: the police have no “clue”; “conscience”
does n’t waggle an admonitory finger; there is
simply a successful burglary, with Jepson’s tacit
endorsement. We do not say whether Jepson’s
attitude is moral or immoral; but it is a new
attitude of the English novel, and interesting.
Some phrases and fragments—
... he learned from them a perpetual distrust of the
ornamental, the folly of trying to pass beyond the limits
of his medium, the worthlessness of work that was not
spontaneous.
. . . pickle-stinking shops. . . [A pretty compound J
pickle is a fine word : the short i pricks and the kl
tingles to reinforce the flavour. Marcel Prbvost refers to
a finite class of the Eternal as “ little pickles of senti-
mentality”—which is just the phrase for that kind of
girl-1
. . . the disgusting soul of the tradesman . . .
. . . that happy balance of faculties, emotions, and
desires which only comes from having dined and drunk
judiciously.
And still we have n’t mentioned Enid, a chuckling
study of the floppy artistic female with the pas-
sionate soul. For Enid—consult Our Advertiser,
the Geo. Robertson Proprietary, Ltd.
We like Morley Roberts’ stories—we like his
philosophy—breezy and manly, not very subtle,
but not smug like Besant’s. And we like his
keen aliveness to Woman and her possibilities,
which are limited and (as Brantdme, who knew,
affirms) increase in proportion to her size, but
(a- Brantdme urges, who knew) are never
altogether to be contemned. Morley docs not
set the ladies at a distance and weave chivalrous
fancies about their imaginary virtues; for, as a
man of experience, he knows the ladies do not
like that kind of thing. Woman has no
objection to being respected, but chiefly she
desires to be hugged; and Roberts hugs
her, in a literary manner of speaking, and
with reasonable attention to Propriety and the
bookstalls of that stern British censor, W. H.
Smith. A modicum of hugging, in phases and
phrases which vary to the same end, is necessary
to the normal novel; and Morley Roberts, being
a warm, stimulating kind of author, whose blood-
corpuscles have not turned, like Mr. Casaubon’s,
to commas and semi-colons, fills his measure
generously.
Immortal Youth, Roberts’ last book, deals in
London studio life, with all the arts struggling for
bread, tobacco, and etceteras. The plot leaves no
decided impression on the mind ; but the charac-
ters do—they are the flesh made words, and they
play their parts absorbingly. The invest-
ment of half-a-crown is recommended if the book
be otherwise unobtainable—and the roving eye
lingers upon—
Ail women bite in their own way, though only some
are venomous.
Whatever game is played, unless it be one of brute
strength, woman seems to hold the ace.
Jock was a fine-seeing soul of a man, for all his wildness
at midnight. It is said he has returned to Scotland. It
is a final proof of success in a Scotchman.
Monogamy, properly understood, means carrying on
but one intrigue at a time. It is mostly confined to
bachelors.
There are women who wish their lovers to lead noble
lives of self-abnegation, mitigated by furtive interviews
in bun-shops.
Woman does n’t like blank cartridges, and though they
may never pull the trigger, they wish to know that there
is danger there.
There is no such infallible sign of a man’s native good-
ness as the follies he commits about women.
It is a poor man who cannot find two women capable of
making themselves unhappy about him.
As the man is, so the woman seems.
It is an odd thing that when a man is a universal
favorite with women he has the fewest real characteristics
of his sex, and is parasitic.
After ail, it is not a mother, but a boy’s first mistress
who is brought to bed of a man.
Eleven citations, and only one about a Scotch-
man- so little oatmeal to so much sealskin sack !
But Morley Roberts does not write pregnant
phrases about the weather and the studio crops.
Cecilia, by F. Marion Crawford (Macmillan).
“ A. story of modern Rome,” depending on the
perpetuation of identity in a man and woman
who loved centuries ago, and love again to-day.
Henley has versified a similar idea— ,
When I was a king in Babylon,
And you were a Christian slave—
and Crawford condenses passages from Nietzsche’s
Zarathustra into the following (it recalls J. F.
Millington’s “The Procession of Egos” in The
Bulletin Story Book) :
Time is infinite. In space there is matter consisting of
elements which, however numerous, are limited in
number, and can therefore only combine in a finite
number of ways. When those possible combinations are
exhausted, they must repeat themselves. And because
time is infinite, they must repeat themselves an infinite
number of times. Therefore, precisely the same combina-
tions have returned always, and will return again and again
forever. Therefore, in the past, every one of us has lived
precisely the same life, in a precisely similar world
an infinite number of times, and will live the same life
over again, to the minutest detail, an infinite number of
times in the future. In the fewest words, this is
Nietzsche’s argument to prove what he calls “The
Eternal Return."
Wo would like Sydney Telegraphs contributor
W.G.P. to tell us if there’s anything in vortex
theories or ether theories that sets a scientific bar
to that idea. Crawford could have found a better
basis for his particular imagination in Weismann’s
germ-plasm hypothesis, providing for the trans-
ference from any ancestor of elements sufficient to
govern a new organism. “Roman society”
writes C., who knows—
is good to look at . . . for mere looks, there is perhaps
nothing better in all Europe, except in England. The
French are more brilliant, no doubt; for their women,
and alas ! their men also, affect a greater variety of dress
and ornament than any other people. German society is
magnificent with military uniforms, Austrians gencrall}
have verv perfect taste; and so on, to each its own
advantage. But the Romani have something of their
own, a beauty most distinctly theirs, a sort of dis-
tinction that is genuine and. unaffected, but which
nevertheless seems to belong to more splendid times
than ours. When the women are beautiful-ana
they often are—they are like the pictures in their
own galleries ; among the men there are heads and faces
that remind one of Leonardo da Vinci, of Csesar
of Lorenzo de Medici; of Guidarello Guidarelli, even or
Michaelangelo. Romans, at their best, have about them
a grave suavity, or a suave gravity, that is a charm m
itself, with a perfect self-possession which is the r 3 r
opposite of arrogance) when they laugh, their mirth is
real, though a little subdued ; when they are grave, they
do not look dull; when they are in deep earnest, they are
not theatrical.
Tlie book is worth scanning.
The Lady of the Barge, by W. W. Jacobs, in-
cludes a dozen short stories, most not nautical,
many clever. Some of the admirable illustrations
by Greiffenhagen are signed “ Greffenhagen ” and
“Grieffenhagen,”—which gives to speculate. A
book to borrow.
Flower-o’-the Com, by S. R. Crockett; By
Dulvercombe Water, by Harold Vallings (Mac-
millan). Two tedious quasi- “historical romances. ”
Publishers nowadays think rapier and cavalier
cloak a sufficient disguise for essential and circum-
stantial dullness ; and apparently ladies “at all
the libraries ” agree with them.
Jim Twelves, by W. F. Shannon (Methuen).
Uninteresting pipeclayed yarns of men-cf-wars-
men, for men-o’-warsmen.
The Twickenham Peerage, by Richard Marsh
(Methuen). Marsh is an uninspired Wilkie
Collins, with a gift of plodding recital and a taste
for mystery. Occasionally, as in the first half of
The Joss, his solid mechanism develops real
power. The Twickenham Peerage turns on the
resemblance of two Dromios, one the real peer.
The story is readable, but not enthralling.
♦
A writer in The Magazine of Commerce, noting
somebody’s suggestion that Italian should be
the universal business language, wonders how
mai’ket reports would run in the language of La
Vita Nuova, — e.g., this passage from Lond. Stan-
dard's commercial column—
Wheat opened steady and unchanged, and
developed a buoyant tone on firm cables, a bullish
“Price Current Report,” covering of shorts, and
liberal export shipments. The market later declined
on realising, sympathy in corn, and a slack export
demand, and closed ea&y at -\c. to §c. fall. Spot
easy.
But why drag in Italian ? Are not the resources
of “our glorious English tongue ” equal to casting
a romantic glow upon the arid business track ?
It will be a pleasant exercise for bookfellows to
take the passage cited and coax it into correct
sonnet form. Conditions: The octave rhymes
a, b, b, a, a, b, b, a ; the sestet with three rhymes,
line disposition optional. Every statement to be
reproduced accurately ; not necessarily textually.
Permission : To exult with the bull; or to wail
with the bear ; or to write with the equal mind
of the recording angel. Suggestions : Mind the
commas. Observe that the quotation naturally
takes the shape of Watts’s rising and withdrawing
wave; while “Spot easy” supplies a clinch as
good as Blanco White’s
If Light can thus deceive, wherefore not Life ?
Ten shillings will be paid for the best sonnet
(having regard both to adequacy and to poetry)
received by 7th February.
♦
Capt. A. J. Onslow Thompson courteously sets
us right in regard to the spelling- of the historic
name Macarthur. He writes:
The Macarthur family always have spelt, and do still
spell their name “ Macarthur,” not “McArthur”; and
of course, Mrs. Macarthur Onslow spells it in the’ same
way. I notice that the newspapers constantly print it
“McArthur,” although the Macarthur Onslows have
several times corrected it. . . . The original Capt.
John Macarthur did occasionally spell his name
“McArthur.” Mrs. Macarthur Onslow, his grand-
daughter, tells me she has one or two of his hooks with
it spelt so, hut she does not know why it was done.
This settles “Ortho’s” question. If the founder
of the family occasionally spelt McArthur (though
never, as N.S.W. official Historian affirms, in
original documents he has seen), it was doubtless
because the spelling of tlve prefix Me or Mac has
always varied, and varies* still; and because in the
eighteenth and early nineteenth century precision
of spelling gave in any case, and particularly to
men of action, less concern than it gives to-day.
The point is fixed by John Macarthur’s pre-
ponderant usage, and by the usage of his descend-
ants.
Journalists, printers’ readers, compositors
especially linotypers—are asked to note this in the
interest of historical accuracy. The linotype
machine is playing the deuce with orthography,
for the reason that the whole line has to be.cast
afresh in order to make a correction —and in the
pressure of newspaper work there is always an
inclination to let small blunders go, and “save
trouble. But it should be a point of honour with
editors and sub-editors to preserve the integrity
of typography; seeing that many of their readers
naturally assimilate and continue “errors of the
press,” sharpening the accusation that the news-
paper is a disseminator of ignorance.
«. .
Replying to a suggestion (3/1/3) that Australian
business firms should employ Australian printers
and spend their money where it is earned the
representative of Sir Joseph Causton and Sons
an English printing firm, forwards a letter which’
freed from extrinsic matter, reads thus
Why insinuate that duty has not been paid on our
goods? . . . Atprese.it the trend of Australian printing
“ cheapness. Cheap work, cheap inks, and cheap paper
In short, Australian printing generally is not high 1.-rade'
As to the particular pamphlet in question, a very un-
doubted high Australian printing authority tells me that
it is of a very much higher grade of work than anything
of the kind done in Australia asyet. . . . The facts remain
1. That Iloldsworth <& .liacpherson and other large firms
are daily giving Causton’s orders because, after seeing
samples of work done by us for leading English manufac-
turers, as business men they realise it is of a higher grade
than is yet profitably possible in Australia from local
printers, otherwise they would not give us the order and
pay duty. 2. That if fact lis as misleading as vour para-
graph, the local printers must be mad or lazy not to con-
trovert our work by local samples of their own of an
equally high grade.
Rejoinder : There was no insinuation that fluty
had not been paid on the pamphlet referred to.
Yet even now Causton’s representative gives
no specific assurance that "duty was paid.
Further : three Sydney firms, Messrs. Wm.
Brooks & Co., W. C. Penfold & Co.,
John S-ands & Co., have courteously sup-
plied samples of their work for comparison
with the Causton pamphlet. In every technical
point—three-colour block, half-tone blocks, letter-
press, etc. —there are Sydney samples as good as
or better than the London sample. The “ very
undoubted high Australian printing authority ”
(nameless), if his capacity be as represented and
his statement be as represented, can convince
himself of his error by opening his eyes. The
original reference is therefofe justified. For the
rest: Wm. Brooks and Co. write to the point—
. . . Causton’s representative says—“ At present the
trend of Australian printing is cheapness.” I would
rather say—“ At present the trend of Australian require-
ments is cheapness.” Many large firms in Sydney, when
placing orders for printing, make it absolutely a question
of price. The consequence is, they work one printer
against another, and get the price cut down to a limit
wtiich cannot possibly allow for high-class work. They
then say that nothing good can be produced in Sydney,
and when the}’ want anything really high-class they give
the order to an Eng. firm, and pay their price without
question.
There is no doubt that large printing orders, for colour
work particularly, are at present being given to repre-
sentatives of Eng. firms that could just as well be
executed on the spot, provided that Sydney houses were
prepared to treat the printer here as generously as they
treat the Eng. people. As a matter of fact, they place
an order ; pay the price that is asked without cavil; take
what is sent them (which, it must be said, is usually good
work), but do not dream of protesting or finding fault,
even where their own pre-conceived ideas or requirements
have been departed from : whereas if the same work was
done by a local firm, and there was a departure of one
iota (owing, possibly, to the exigencies of the work itself)
from the hard and fast lines laid down by some junior in
their establishment, then the wyrk is ruthlessly thrown:
back on the printer, withou a thought as to the loss to
which he is subjected. This has been our actual ex-
perience. . . .
If Sydney business houses, when requiring anything
really good in the way of printed matter, would treat any
reputable printing firm in Sydney with confidence, and
trust to them to make the charge reasonable in propor-
tion to the character of the work required, then I am
confident that there would be no need to send outside
the State for any printed matter.
Memoranda.
Peat son’s Xmas Xtra, 1902, prints, apparently as new,
an illustrated page of verses—“ Biggs and the Alligator “
—with no signature, no acknowledgment, nothing to say
that they are (except for blunders and ten omitted
verses) J. B. Stephens’ lines “ Universally Respected,”
first published in Australia nearly twenty years ago,
many times reprinted, and included in both editions of
his poetical works.
The World's News (Sydney) advertises “ tinted illustra-
tions which are unequalled in the weekly journalism of
Australia." They are : in fact, we have never seen their
equals anywhere.
Sydney Telegraph recently printed that the sale of
Paterson’s The Man from Snowy River was the largest
yet reached by a book of verges published in Australia.
But A. L. Gordon is still at the head of the list : his
publishers, A. H. Massina and Co., write that over 40,000
copies of his verses have been sold in various forms and
editions.
Quote : The Nile Dam is n’t finished yet. Surely this
is the longest imprecation on record.
Clippings—
This is the sadness of Life’s tragedies,
That, looking back on them with wiser eyes,
The dignity that draped them, falling, shows
At best a little comedy of woes.
MoCrea PicKEame
in The Smart Set (a dull Set for Dec.)
An enterprising American firm hag founded a school
for teaching advertising by correspondence. This school
was not formed for merely teaching the rudiments ofi
advertising, but every student is taken through a six
months’ course, and is taught advertisement writing
from its very inception to the finished copy. He is
taught to discriminate in regard to language, the value
of disp'ay and effect, the sending of “copy" to the
printers with the necessary trade instructions, and in
fact everything that an advertiser ought to know.— The
Magazine of Commerce.
Correspondence.
E. McC. : Can’t see the sense of an “ amateur journal ”
for printing stuff too bad to be accepted bv the regular
press. Privately, it’s your own printer’s bill; publicly,
you have no status. But we’d welcome an amateur
journal for printing stuff too good to be etc.
W.H.R. : Since you are dense : the meaning is that he
is epicurean when he can afford it, stoic when he can’t,
and cynic all the time. But all-too-human.
C. H.F. : You asked for Hamerton’s Human Intercourse,
and the Newtown bookseller’s assistant (female) referred
you to the medical shelf. —Well ? Wish us to laugh? Is
your own knowledge so vast, that you can conscientiously
jeer the limitations of Newtown and Her?—Admit some
value as clue to what Newtown reads and She dislikes
serving.
Broker: Glad of criticism ; but can’t reply to genera-
lities. Send clipping with precise complaint; and we ’ll
justify or fail.
Noorat : Game too 5ma11.... Literas: Lines not worth
hunting for W.A.G. : No more C—r—i.
Publications Received^
Thb Australia Kat (new series), Nos. 1, 2, 3 ; B d. Edited
and published by Syd. Smith, Hotel Australia, Sydney.
[A bright young conceit and shrewd elderly conceit
together make a pleasant business magazir Act.}
The Magazine of Commerce, an Illustrated Monthly for
Men of Affairs. Vol. i, No, 2 ; Is. net; London. [The
first really high-class Eng. commercial maga.
Varied and interesting articles ; excellent illustra-
tions and typography. This country is represented
by a safe article on “ Australian Banking Vicissi-
t tides.”]
A.G.S.


WOOL
WINCHGOMBE, CARSON, and C 0„ 3 Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN
SYDNB Y.
BUTCHERS I
Send your
HIDES
SHEEPSKINS
TALLOW
TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
_-SYDKTBY,
Full Values and Quick Returns .
The Co-operative Woo! & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Storesi PYRMOMT*
Sole Oommiaaion 3 Fer Cent, to the Grower
ort Large and. Small A.ccountg Alike.
Liberal Advances,
Accurate Valuations,
When required.
WOOL
Selling 1 Brokers,
PROMPT
RETURNS A
SPECIALITY.
HARRISON, JONES & DEVLIN, Ltd.
Special Attention to
details.
Weights carefully
taken.
Principals
having over 30 Years
Experience Conduct
Ail Wool Sales.
Offices and Stores:
Circular Quay,
Sydney.
S. FREEMAN # SONS V™™
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES!
BATHO’S
FREEMAN’S
BAKING
PRIZE
POWDER.
PICKLES.
EXTRACT OP SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. PLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
headofficej WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
BH
wr
411 Patterns # Sizes
IN THE POPULAR
44 Premo” # “ Poco"
- —Cameras.
The most Complete and Best
Finished Cameras.
approved by Amateurs and
Professionals everywhere.
The last new Pocket Camera, one that takes perfect pictures
and hts any pocket is the “ Pocket POCO A.”
It is small, light, strong and handsomely finished.
Price, with three dark slides, TWO GllinGclS.
Extra slides, 2s. 6d. each.
■auoqsuy
■gpwiapy
•aumoniaiffie.
uphc
The Baker & Rouse Proprietary, Ltd.
*— *7* GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and BRISBANE.
NtITHER CRfICR
NOR BURN.
5803
S €
,0
c
BB
6807
5808
nZXZW''''
SHILLING BRIAR PIPES
QUALITY NOT B6TT£<»
IN A GUINEA PIPE. .
GUARANTEE.— ShouId any of our Celebrated CAN’T-B-BEAT Briar Pipes Crack or Bara a
New One will be Exchanged for it immediately on Application.
_ Sold by all Tobacconists. By Post, la. 20.
Quality Hot better in a Guinea r>ip e .
c.b.b;
C. 8.8.
0.8.8. Pipe, Sterling Silver Mount, 2/6
each.
0.8.8. Pipe, hand-finished, with Ster-
ling Silver Mount, polished Vulcanite
Mouthpiece, in Morocco Leather
Case, 4/- each.
0.8.8. Meerchaum Pipe, guaranteed
genuine, Sterling Silver Screw, Best
■ Quality Mouthpiece, Morocco Gold-
lined Case, 21/- each.
0.8.8. Pipe, hand-finished, Sterling
Silver Mounted Rim and Band, in
Morocco Gold-lined Leather Case,
8/6 each.
0.8.8. Presentation Companion, con-
taining’ two Silver Mounted, hand-
finished Pipes, Superior Quality
Mouthpieces, Red Morocco Gold-
lined Case, 15/6 each.
C.B.fi.
N
91
R CHMOND.VA
is
TOBACCO
Dark and
Bright
IS THE BEST.
Price, ss. lb., Post Free, all States.
HAVING secured the Sole Agency for the
above brand of AMERICAN TOBACCO, we
have very much pleasure in recommending
same to our Clients and the Smoking Public. We
feel sure that one trial will be sufficient to con-
vince Smokers that “ SOLID SHOT ” is the finest
Tobacco on the market. Splendid aroma, and
does not bite the tongue.
Bave “Solid Shot” Tobacco Tags.
For Each 100 you will receive from the
Agents, Tree, one only C. 8.8. Briar
Pipe and Pocket KniTe.
WHOLESALE PRICE LISTS ON APPLICATION.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney, n.s.w.
TRADE
FOX
MARK
FOX Bros. & Co., Ltd., warn the public that their Trade Mark consists
ONLY OF THE WORD FOX
which is a guarantee of soundness of material and quality of dye of all
Worsted Coatings, Serges & Tweeds
on which it is stamped.
As the result of many years of experience ...
FOX'S PURE INDIGO DYE
is recognised as the best in the market. All FOX’S Standard Cloths are
stamped every two yards on the back—
FOX
PURE I NDBGO
and without this stamp are not genuine. These celebrated serges can be
obtained from the leading Tailors and Drapers throughout the Colonies.
fOX BROS & Co., Ltd., WELLINGTON, SOMERSEI, England.
9 /m
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The Tasmanian Government having 1 imposed a tax of One Penny
on every Five Shilling Ticket issued by Tatter sail’s on and after Ist
January, 1903, clients will please forward Id. extra for each ss.
ticket appl-ed for, or 4d. for every JBI, and so on.
OPEN
HOBART CUP—EI wick, Tas., Jan 21,1903 ••• 50,000 at 5/1
LAUNCESTON CUP—Launceston, Tas., Jan. 28 50,000 at 5/1
NEWMARKET H’CAP—Flemington, Vic., Feb 28 100,000 at 5/1
AUSTRALIAN CUP-Flemington, Vic., March 3 50,000 at 5/1
DONCASTER H’CAP—Randwick, N.S.W., April 11 25 000 at 5/1
SYDNEY CUP-Randwick, N.S.W., April 13 ... 25,000 at 5/1
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS (“TATTERSALL ) STILL
CONTINUES his business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend or
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the application and
securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to clients.
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE
ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing will please request
Bank to advise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PARCEL
DELIVERS’ CO. doing business with Tasmania.


END’S
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE,
s FRUIT
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
SALT.’
The effect of Eno’s * Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.— See capsule marked ENO’S 'FRUIT SALT.’ Without it you have a
XVURTHLBSS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. O. ENO, Ltd., ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, ENG.,
by J. C. ENO S Patent.
THE
THE
‘PLUM’
OENTLEMEN.—This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, migJ
like a hell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the e * a n C JJ*MYj
edo-e that is >-equired to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor,
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
78. 6d.
Price
f Single Razor in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d j Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 2l*.
\single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 308.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part op the World.
fjg?“ Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
N.S W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company,
When in town, pav vis a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying’ from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7 ;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia. £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and made
to Order' HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE. —Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
ent. more for your requirements.
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
OUK NPKCIAT, Ko. 8
£8 18/6
&
.11
Pelirered at any Wharf or
N.B.W. Kaihvays, Station
£lO 10/-
'-a.
sS
IT
'W
\W
7 m
'm
'/A'/,.
■s
■•nil
H III" in
\ aw
s*"’
C?
§
miiiimmik
ii/F» f
1 "• 'imiu h Hi
iiimiiim, l
///(
9=2
I
m
»
i. ■'///
is
W//,'A
VA
J.
%
Vi
%
gc
S&s
n
xs '.
(°D NIIHOnVI^^q3HJQ
MINNEAPOLIS,'
Officer
NEW VORK.
CHICAGO.
ST LOUIS, p'ttsburg,
CINCINNATI, MONTREAL..
MELBOURNE,LONDON .
ENO.
111tt... /11l
m
jpH&l.
ffiiEDr. McLAUGHUN Co,
Office s
U SAN FRANCISCO,-
DALLAS, SEATTLE ,WASH.,
' TO R ON TO. LOS ANGELES jCAL,
CfTYOF MEXICO. DENVER,
MADRID.6PN., SYDNEY.
l9O
Dear Sir,
Please send me by return mail, one of your ILLUSTRATED FREE BOOKS,
describing your method of curing weakness and disease by Electricity, WITHOUT
the USE OF DRUGS. By carefully reading your advertisement, I see that yours is
the only Belt that cures without the extra expense of drugs. Kindly send me a
book by return post, prepaid, and oblige,
Yours truly,
THIS LETTER ENTITLES THE
SENDER TO A TEN SHILLING D/S-
-OOUNT ON ONE OF OUR BELTS.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.,
85 K*ING ST.. SYDNEY.
167 E &wanston-st., Melbourne.
Name
Address
Street
Town
I I } ealisin ° tllat a ? this time of the y ear a g reat raan y people are afflicted with “ that tired feeling,” even to the extent
that they have not enough energy to make the necessary effort to procure treatment for their poor health/we have endeavored
to make the effort very easy for them. 1 u
If any man or woman suffering from Lame or Weak Back, nervousness, General Beeline Rheu-
matism, Lumbago Indigestion, or Constipation, who nas failed to get relief from and dr“ toatiTen"
w.ll cut out the above letter, sign it fully, and return it to us, we will immediately forward one of our Beautiful Life Books
and will credit you with ten shillings on account. Our Books tell of the wonderful effect of Electricity as used in all these
-pases We found years ago that it was all sufficient, and find it absolutely unnecessary to use anv drugs in coniunction with
our Beit I is the modern remedy. It never fails, Because unless we are sure we can Cure we never sell a
Belt, Itatliei than disappoint a man, we would not treat him. See wll&t we do for others.
Desperate with Sciatica.
Angel Terrace,
Coolgardie, W.A.
Dear Sirs,—l got your Belt after all the doctors here had
given uve up—after all the hospitals had passed me as an in-
curable. I had Sciatica so had that I could neither work nor
walk. I wore the Belt two nights, and the pain stopped. In
a week I had no pain and began to mend ; in a month I was
out prospecting again, and 1 would like to meet a man
more grateful to you than I am. I don’t think I ever will
P. W. KELLY.
Rheumatism and Weak Back.
Mount Orosbv, Queensland.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.
Dear Sirs,-I am pleased to say that since I have worn
your Electric Belt I have derived great benefit from the use
of it, a d am feeling much stronger in every way, though I
have not as yet fully recovered, the nature of my work pre-
venting a rapid recovery, but I will send you a still further
report i iter on.
I consider your Electric Belt the best I have ever used, and
as such have recommended it to my friends.
I remain, yours sincerely,
VICTOR SWANSON.
Indigestion and Constipation.
the dr. McLaughlin co.
Sirs, —Since I have been wearing one of your Electric Belts
I feel quite well, my food agrees with me, and I have no
rushing of sour water to my mouth now, as formerly ; in
fact, I feel better all over.
Since I have had your Electric Belt I teel a new man, and
get up in the morning as fresh as a daisy.—Yours very truly,
, -> J . . S. C. BRAY.
Koorumburra, Victoria.
Cc n 3tipation and Liver Complaint.
_ _ , Yanko Oreek, Narrandera.
The Dr. McLaughlin 00.
Dear Sirs,—l have now worn your Belt one month and feel
that it deserves all you claim for it. It is wonderful how
soon it broke down the worst case of constipation I think
any man could suffer from and keep on his feet.
It has done so in my case, and I am as regular as ever I
was. My back was very bad till I wore vour Belt. It is
alright now.
. I dropped medicine before I started to wear your Belt, as
it only relieved without doing any permanent good.
I am, Gentlemen, yours faithfully,
J. E. COATES.
Genera.! Functional Debility.
~ Glenorohy, Tasmania, 20th Dec., 1902.
have worn the Belt for the last, three weeks,
a,ncl the chiinjre whu h has come over me is. I believe little
mem ponM'T e i l0aS ; 1 tliOU Sht that such an improve-
ment noulc! take p.aee in so short a time. My corn! tion
Ihj sically and mentally, now is so improved that I can
weeks T ySe i' f the listless lllortal 1 "'as a few
weeks back. Mv head seems as clear as it possible can be
and all pains m back, fire.. seem to have left me entirely!
Before nsinjfyoiir Belt I was doubtful as to the result but
tsh ill” 1 satlsfied that > " ith a few weeks more application
Lnnil beaSSOU, l dand l health y as the best of men 1 words
cannot express how thankful I feel for the treatment vou
have supplied. Believe me, dear sir, “eatment you
Yours very gratefully, J. j. PEACOCK.
Feels Like a New Man.
, Bingara, N.8.W., December 12th. 1902
. Gentlemen,-I am pleased to tell you that I see a decided
improvement in Mr. Finlan already. For one thine he has nut
aba?of Z'ffor J'h U ;r COrner - a " d 3 he'carried 'out
* ,u° <d , * Ol tlle horses a thing he has not done for six
months ; and he told me this morning, “ I feel as if I could
jump over the palisading. ■> Yours gFatefully, A. FINLAN
FREE WRITTEN DIAGNOSIS.
tainly JTJS& PERSO NaI . w „, mII Mul be
WOOO KEWAKD PAID T 0 «wrf who fails toget oTto of oth e :,
Our Chief-of-Staff is ths only Registered Qualified Specialist in Australia who demotes his Entire Time to Electric Treatment.


A greac many
people want
long,
heavy-
hair, but
howto
get it,
that is
what puzzles
them. The 1
fact is, the
hair needs a
little help
now and then.
The roots re-
quire feeding.
*
4
Q
&
Jl
When the hair is starved, it stops
growing, loses its lustre, falls out
turns gray. Ayer's Hair Vigor is a
hair-help. It makes the hair grow
stops it from falling, and completely
cures dandruff.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
If your hair is fading or turning
gray, begin at once with Ayer’s Hair
Vigor. It will positively restore color
to your gray hair, all the full, rich
color it had in early life.
As a hair-dressing you will certainly
like it, for it keeps the hair soft and
glossy and prevents it from splitting
at the ends.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Make sure that you get the genuine
Ayer’s Hair Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Aver ft Co.. Lowell. Mass.. U.S.A.
W. H.Wigzell.
FRINGES : Best Natural Curly
Hair, 3/6, 5 6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each.
TAILS and PLAITS : 20in. long-,
5/6 ; extra thick, 7/6; 24in., 10/6;
extra thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings worked up,
2/6 per oz. Don’t be misled.
Our Plaits and Tails are twice as
thick as sold elsewhere at the
same price. Send color of Hair.
Only one address : 110 WILLIAM-
ST., cor. of Palmer St. SYDNEY.
n
Cable trams will stop at door. All work guaranteed.
Illustrated Catalogue post free. Prompt attention given
to country orders. Wigs made on shortest notice. All
Hairwork sent to the other States free of duty. Transfor-
mations, entire covering for the head, 30/- each.
A GIFT for thr LADIES.
We make this
SPECIAL OFFER
to Advertise our
Ostrich
Tips.
5/-
The Bunch,
Worth 10/6.
TWO VEEY SUPERIOR TIPS, with
OSPREYS, in Black, White or Cream.
Post Free. Send Postal Notes.
Miller’s Feather Shop,
Corner Bourke & Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
Mention Tiie Bulletin.
Per 25 Gent.
Reduction in the
Price of
PHOTOGRAPHIC PAPERS,
KNOWN all over the World for
their unequalled richness in Silver,
and all-round Excellence.
Price List of all Dealers and of
KODAK LIMITED,
284 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Pi, ease Mention this Papkr.
S€NP US
YOUR PHOTOGRAPH.
JF you send a Photograph of yourself (or friend) to
Mr. Mark Blow, Crown Studios, Sydney,
he will reproduce from it a very beautiful and
Artistically Finished
Permanent Enlargement
In Black and White, equalling a rich Steel Plate
Engraving, handsomely mounted on an Indian-tinted
Plate, sunk mount, and as good in every way as Enlarge-
ments now being supplied at from 30/- to 50/-each, and
will carefully pack it and send it Carriage Paid to any
address in Australia, Tasmania, or New Zealand for 10 6.
Your Photo. Returned with Order.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849,
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On of Freehold or
Lease: o!J C.fy or Su!)tirLa.i
Properties, or on
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
fin r f n ff V fi fo 'i t ” as l I>etd contalns a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of rooa vin>' m> to ->o , W r
Directors— durm * a ,’!' V >' ear ’ without notice or payment of any fine ° W "=" Pl ° -° P6r
Esq ; The llonVj'T *My *, n ‘T«ty-Oham„an ; Bex.,am,x Shout.
General Manager and AotuaiV-RiciiAKDTnKw; FI ’A;, FF A FS A ’ ' J ' E ' Wlsw,, «>““. Ksi l'> il P -
HEAD OI<MCE; 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON. Secretary
S
Kwtvugfv.
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 10*
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
SST Send for .a
Catalogue.
Kent Shaft Sulkies,
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles.
, , „ Tlle Best and Cheapest.
n. HILLIER, i3o Sussex St., Sydney
Straight ShaEt 3-Spring Sulkies, i.B :Os.
Sarven Sulky Wheels Tyred, £2 <.s ed pair.
Discount to Wholesale Buyers. Send for Catalogue.
PLAYER’
WORLD
FAMED
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
t&r
£
s
3/
$
I
I
WHOLESALE
Distributing Agents
New South Wales—
M. RUTTY & CO,,
SYDNEY.
Victoria —
J. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia—
Kart, Lawrence & Co.
Propy. Ld., Adelaida
Western Australia —
Lionel Samson & Son,
Ft emantls
Queensland—
Thoe. Brown & Sons, Ld.
Brisbana
Eut ns, Philp & Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania—
Watchorn Bros.,
Hobart
John McKenzie A Co.,
Launceston
Sett Zealand—
D. Benjamin 1 Co.
Dunedin, Wellington
and Chrietoburoti.
Most makes of .22 caliber cartridges are as variable as some
men’s watches. Cartridges out of the same box won’t
shoot alike. Some go high, some go low and some don’t
go at all. This is not true of
WINCHESTER
.22 Short and .22 Long Cartridges.
They shoot well all the time, and shoot just where you hold.
Special powder made according to carefully determined and
tested formulas is used in loading Winchester Cartridges
and every bullet is swaged by special machinery which
makes them uniform in size, weight and density. This
modern method of manufacture coupled with a rigid sys-
tem of tests makes Winchester Cartridges better than any
other brand on the market. A trial will convince you.
w, ; stock W | N chRSTRR GOODS.
M'LEAN BROS. & RIGG, Ltd
ELIZABETH ST., fIELBOURNE ; GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
PLAYS °r°* uo
French’s Acting Edition.
✓
Rare Books
French Novels
Books
for
the
Married
Extra Sj>ecial Catalogue of
Books Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
mv hivh aooo
AUi Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and sriving Lustra
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling oif, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
flgf For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
03" For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington 11. Soul & Co.,
Pitt-streefc, Sydney.
CONSULT HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by tv ATKINS & MACKAY, Chemists, Queen fctreet, Brisbane ; Mr. GORDON, 92 George
Street, Rockhampton, Queensland, and
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Broke!”
U> “ eo ,0 ,he *° W Und-the land .itho.it
fence or gate,
Where the stringent laws of mine and thine are
rubbed clean off the slate ;
Where the small and the long,
The tall and the strong,
Must each carve out his fate.
Let us get from the iron town, with its dust and
glare and heat,
Where the cynical rays of the sun down crowded
pavements beat
On the great and the low,
The rags and the show,
When the poor the purse-proud meet.
What’s in the merit of Birth ?-where the disgrace
of the slum ?
Why is one great upon Earth-the other just
nameless scum—
, bcum on the top that gloats j
j Scum—that rises and floats ?, , ,
(’Ere, give me my bloomin’ drum !) '
Little on earth can we claim—then why wear our
flesh to the bone ?
When the swag’s rolled up, and we step out, we’ve
everything on we own.
This 1 work-for-food-for-yer-work ”
(Where germs and microbes lurk)
Makes the bread we eat—a stone !
We can see the finger of God in the Bushland’s
green and brown,
In the wind and the rain and the storm, in the
Thunder-king’s fierce frown :
We worship when alone
The twig—the leaf—the stona
(There ain’t no God in the town).
Then hey ! for the High Hill Land where the soul
of man is free,
Where the bold, keen hawk goes circling up as far
as eye can see
High o’er the sun-tipped crag . , ,
(Give me my bloomin’ swag !
And ho ! for Liberty !)
M.U
J. McLAUCHLAN.
The Timber-getters.
Gray dawn, and the birds are stringing
To the East and the West a-wheel j
Sun-rise, and the scrub’s a-ringing
To the clashing of wood and steel;
And hark ! to the cross-cut ripping,
And the chips, as they bum and curl ;
And see, from the white teeth, gripping,
The pine-dust scatter and whirl !
‘ Stand clear! ” —and aloft she’s heeling,
And volleys of splinters flash ;
While over, the skies are reeling,
And below her the branches crash.
She strikes, and the far hills thunder,
And fiercely her back-winds blow ;
The quiver of earth-shock under—
And the “ King of the Scrub ” lies low 1
Spell-oh ! ” for the sweat’s a-streaming,
And the glare of the hot sun lies
Where the stifling vapors, teeming,
With the reek of the dead leaves rise.
Then toil, till the dusk is falling
And the dark shades lengthen and loom,
And the sound of the wonga’s railing
Rings faint from the forest gloom.
Bright stars in the skies a-shining,
The whisper of leaves in the trees,
Tired limbs on the sward reclining,
And the kiss of the cool night breeze ;
The chant of the weird scrub dirges
That peal from the darkness deep—
The drone, as the soft wind surges—
Night reigns, and the bush-lands sleep !
A. CAR. B.
The Bashland’s Songs.
Dear to me the wild commotion of my Mother
Bushland’s breeze
As the droning of the ocean is to singers by the
seas;
And now rising, voice a-thunder, and now sobbing
soft and low,
It wreathes my way with wonder and the dearest
songs I know.
Ah ! I sadden for its dirges droned in unavailing
sighs,
But I gladden as it surges through my native
Paradise ;
And enraptured here I listen as its raving tem-
pests roar
In the skies where cloudlets glisten, and where
wide-winged reamers soar.
When the star-loved Queen of Shadows shuts the
daylight from her throne,
From her Muse’s Eldorados come her songs for
me alone;
And although I may discover that her moods are
strange and wild,
She is kind to me, her lover—yet her critic, and
her child.
And the river sings her greeting (where the moon-
beams kiss the bars),
With her whisp’iings of a meeting with a roadway
’neath the stars;
And, where silent oaks are slender,' sob the dream-
less waters deep—
Oh ! the Bushland’s songs are tender as she cradles
me to sleep.
And the listening seas applaud her as the twinkling
stars, ashine,
With their million lights reward her in this music-
hall of mine . . .
Hark! now rising, voice a-thunder, and now
singing, soft and low,
She breaks my cares asunder, and I gladden as I
go.
N.S.W.
GILROONEY.


V *
44
A Quiet
Nip ••
« *
,EErE±r
Four Crown
WHISKY
Eight Years' Dyspepsia.
A LONG PERIOD OF SUFFERING.
A WELCOME FRIEND IN TIME OF NEED.
The Case of W|rs. S. BRO HH
(by our reporter.)
If you are imbued with any desire to gein
an insight into the methods adopted by
people whose efforts ftre attended with suc-
cess, you cannot do better than read the
following narrative* which was related by
Mrs. Selina Brown, of No. 5 Little Ed ward-
street, Pyrmont.
“ One day,” said Mrs. Brown, “ as I was
talking to a young girl at the front door, a
Strange and overpowering sensation came
Over me, which caused me to have a fit, and
I was taken indoors and put to bed, where
I was lying unconscious for three days. A
doctor was called in, but he said that he
could not account for the sudden turn I
had taken. He prescribed some medicine,
which did not have any beneficial effect,
as three weeks later I took another fit in my
sleep, after which I was so feeble that I had
to keep to my bed for several days, and
again the doctor was brought to my bed-
side.”
► “ Previous to taking the fits were you in
£ood health ? ” asked the reporter.
“ I was not at all well, as you may gather
" from the fact that for eight years I suffered
from indigestion,” answered Mrs. Brown.
“ For a long time I seemed as if I had no
use in my body to work at all. I felt
languid an 1 depressed in spirits, and did
not care whether I lived or died ; neither
could I sleep well. It was a perfect misery
for me to go to bed, a? my mind was so un-
settled that I felt as if I wanted to walk
about all night. Just as I thought I was
falling asleep 1 commenced to think about
some troublesome subject which generally
occupied iny mind till morning, and when I
* got up I was too exhausted to do anything,
and with a taste in my mouth that made
[ everytl 'ug seem bitter. The only sleep I
got Vi,, a ways accompanied by dreadful
dreams, so that I never got any proper rest.
'The sense of hunger was a stranger to me
entirely, but in spite of that I took a little
food occasionally, or else I should have
starved.”
“ Did the food do you any good ? ”
“I am sure it did not do me much good,
ayy, for I was continually getting weaker
and thinner, and the worst of it was that
eating always gave me such awful pains in
the stomach, where windy spasms made-me/
feel as if I wanted to tear my clothes off, no
matter how loose they were. A heaviness
in my chest also troubled me greatly, for as
each breath was drawn a smothering sensa-
tion came over me, and at the same time I
svifibre 1 acutely from pains under my
shoulder-blades and about my back. Every-
thing possible seemed to go against me at
once, as I was often incapacitated from
going about the hou«e on ing to my feet
swelling and my limbs aching, across the
loins especially. Unless I was very careful
and slow in my movements I became so
giddy that I could not stand, while extreme
nervousness was another torture. 1 was
afraid to move in the dark lest something
would happen to me, and if anything gave
me the least excitement my nerves shook to
such an extent that the Vibration of my
limbs was quite visible. Little did I think
.tint something even worse than these ail-
ments was in store for me, but my ex peri
ence goes to show how a person’s constitu-
tion is gradually wrecked, and what fright-
ful results aro likely to follow. After my
sudden seizures I was in a more hopeless
state than ever. My head pains were so
bad that I could not bear anybody to speak
to me, and any food that I took was always
vomited. The medicines and powders which
were given to me were of no avail, and at
length I crawled out of bed and went to
another doctor, who told me I ought to go
to a hospital. Having three young children
I did not like doing so, and instead of going
tc a hospital I catne home ”
“ Were you wise in going against the
doctor’s advice ? ”
“It turned out to be the best thing I
could have possibly done, as a neighbour
shortly afterwards came in to see me for the
purpose of reading a cure performed by
Clements Tonic. When she had finished
the story she exelaimed : ‘ That is just how
you are. Why don’t you try it?’ I said,
‘I believe I will.’ When my husband
came home he thought I was going
to the hospital, but I said, ‘ I’m not
going. Bring me home a bottle of
Clements Tonic, and I will try it.’ On
my word of honor, I felt a slight im-
provement when I had drank only half a
bottle. Just imagine my delight after the
way I had been disappointed with all other
medicines, especially as I had long since
thought that I was doomed to die, because
I could not get relief. But Clements Tonic
soon eased the terrific pains in my head
(which extended right down my neck), and
when, in a few days, they were gone alto-
gether I could get about a little, for I also
felt more vigorous than I had been for a long
time. The first good night’s rest I had had
for many a month was obtained through the
comforting influences of Clenjents Tonic, and
when this grand experience had been re-
peated several nights in succession I felt
quite new, for I was happy in the belief
that I m'ght yet recover m ' health.C
tissue in my body seemed to be strengthened
by the wonderful medicine I was taking,
and for sharpening my appetite it was just
the thing. Before long I sat down to my
meals like everybody else in the house, and
I could always take a fair share of whatever
was placed on the table. The neighbour*
were intensely surprised to see me up and
about once more, as they had entertained
little hope of ever see ng me well aga n. I
had no trouble in keeping mj T food down,
and every day I found greater relief from
the symptoms of indigest on. The pa ns
finally left my stomach and shoulders, and
I could breathe without gasping as I used
to, for the oppression had disappeared from
my chest, and w th returning strength my
limbs acqured freedom from all aches.
When I was taking my doctor’s medicines I
had no desire for anything, hut Clements
Tonic gave me a 1 ght-hearted inclination to
see everything. By its contnued use I
forgot what nervousness was, as I knew no
fear, and my nerves were as steady as a
rock. I vya,& never a stout woman, jet my
diseases had dragged me down considerably,
but C emeut>* Tonic was my sole medicine
till my lost weight was regained, and, re-
markable as it may seem, that is all I
required, for I was then quite cured of
everything. None of my former ailments
were left behind by Clements Tonic, and I
am only speaking the truth when I say that
iny life was saved by that medicine. If you
like you can publish my story in any way
you deem fit, as itmay alleviate the sufferings
of many more.” “
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Sri.i.na Bkown, of 5 I/ttle Ed ward-street,
Pyrmont, Sydney, in the State of New South Wales,
Common wealth of Australia, do solemnly and
sincerely declare that 1 have carefully read the
annexed document, consisting of four foli is, and
consecutively numbered from one to four, and that
it contains and is a true an 1 faithful account of my
illness ami cure by Clements Tonic; and also con-
tains my full permission to publish in any way
my statem ,nts—which 1 give voluntarily, with-
ou receiving any payment; and 1 make this solemn
declaration conscientiously believing the same to be
true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths
Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Pyrmont, this
tenth day of March, one thousand nine hundred
and two, before me,
JOS. McDOUGALL, J.P.
Second
Edition.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER:
Harry Morant
His Ventures,
and Verses.
Price 1/1
Pott
Frtt.
Y By FRANK RENAR. \f
Edwards. Dunlop & Co.. Svdnev
FOR COUNTRY VISITORS.
The
IT
Sydney Coffee
Palace Hotel,
LOWER DOMAIN
(Under New
Management)
Is the Healthiest and Cleanest
Hotel in Sydney.
TERMS—From 6s. per day, and from 255.
per week.
JJOTICB TO MBI.BOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Sbabion and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF lor
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
WABASH
Business
Expansion
Systems*
Letter
Filing
Devices*
Card Index Systems*
For all
Businesses.
We Systematise your Office Free of Charge.
Write us for Illustrated, Catalogue.
WOOLLEY, BERGIN & CO.,
269 George St., Sydney.
Sole Agents, Australia.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
The Pbkwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen."
THE WAVERLEV PEN.
So!d by al S tat on are throughout the Werld.
EVERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separatey examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
VST BEWARE OF IMITATIONS. TKI
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM!.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GR ATEFUL-CO MFORTINO.
COCOA
BREAKFAST—SUPPER.
DON’T MISS THIS
OPPORTUNITY, if you are suffering’ with WEAKENING
NERVOUS, and DEBILITATING Diseases. Our CON-
CENTRATED BOTANIC REMEDIES will CURE YOU.
So CONFIDENT are we of this that we will send to anv
sufferer a TRIAL COURSE (Free of Charge) and abide
by the RESULT. Send NOW and your ultimate CURE
CERTAIN. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
DRUNK
ENNESS
CURED
Absolutely Conquered in 20 Days.
my proposition to the Government
November Bth, 1901, wherein I agree to
accept 100 Test Cases, and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home treatment
within the reach of all. No restrictions, no
hypodermic injections. Full particulars free
W. LANGSTON, M R.C.S.. Bn* .
68 Russell St., Melbourne.
Rescued
From Drink
by a new discovery, odorless and tasteless, which any lady
can give in tea, coffee or food It does its work so silently
and surely that while the devoted wife, sister or daughter
looks on, thedrunkard is reclaimed, even against his will
t i loUt^ ls £ nowled!reor co-operation. Send name
SYDNFY e v «°J HE pUCRASY 00 - 62 HUNTER ST.,
' y Wlll send you booklet and
RUPTURE«w>
Throw iwaj
your IrUM.
without
- -- operation or pa :n,
no detention from work, or depend-
ence upon Trusses. The only
humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
Treatise No. io. Address:
SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C.S., ENG.,
Cor Russell a Collins sr« •
MELBOURNE
LARGEST SALE OF ANY DENTIFRICE.
CALVERTS
CARBOLIC
Tooth Powder.
A unique and efficacious preparation for
cleansing the teeth and strengthening the gums.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
MORRIS'S
IMPERIAL
ointment
CURES
TOOTH-ACHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
BUNTER’S
Prevents Decay, Saves
Extraction, Sleepless Night)
Prevented.
Neuralgic Head aches & all Nerve
Pains removed by BUNTEE’S
NERVINE. Of all Stores.
NERVINE
“As a specific for Tooth ache it hag no equal. I hart
used it successfully for years.”—Prof. W. Wilson, M.D.
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’S WORSDEIL’S PILLS
Are a certain Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Head ache,
Dyspepsia, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, As.
Of all Stores.
Hidden Secrets ol
WORDS
OF
WISDOM
11
This “ GRAND
BOOK” which is
sent Absolutely
FREE.
•“-Words of Wisdom,” a
wonderful book written
for the sole purpose of re-
vealing to sufferers the
wonderful system of Hom-
oeopathic treatment which
has cured so many cases
that were thought to be
hopeless and incurable.
The book is written in a
plain and concise manner,
- telling you exactly how
and where you can regain
perfect health. In fact, it
gives you the key to the
grandest knowledge known.
It reveals wonderful se-
crets and makes the impossibilities of yesterday realities of to-
day. No matter what your disease or how many have termed
it hopeless or incurable, you w. 11 indeed find it A MESSAGE
OF HOPE to you, for if you follow its dictates, you Will, as
thousands of others have, be entirely cured of your ailments.
Remember this book costs you absolutely nothing and you will*
prize it highly. Simply sit down, write your name and address,,
send it to the
IRVING HOMOEOPATHIC COY.,
c/r Hunter & Bligh Sts., Sydney, N.S.W.
also stating your ailments, and they will send their opinion and'
advice as well as this grand book without cost.
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
JIELTS and
A PE LI A y CES
a trial of SO days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Disease*
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
fel c by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give »
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactljf
what we sa}', and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
ALL CHEMISTS
pROEFINSTfg
FOR
* x - An/emia,
Poverty of Blood
and Weakness
from Whatever Cause. J**
tablets
at-376
per BOX i


ICE-MAKINC MACHINES from 70/- EA
Water converted into Ice in One Minute.
ICE-CREAM FREEZERS 15/- „„„
Send for Catalogue.
BRANDT BROS.
and 422 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
236 Pitt St.
Sydney)
Engineer Electric Plant.
Electrical, Steam, Mechanical
Engineering,—
Plumbing, Heating,
Ventilating or
Mechanical Drawing.
These subjects are taught
at home by correspon-
dence ; also Steam,
flschanical and Elec-
trical Engineering,
Mechanical Drawing,
etc. IF rite for informa-
tion and Handbook “ B.”
American School of
Correspondence, at Ar-
mour Institute of Tech-
nology.
Sydney : Box 629, G.P.O.
V?
Hypnotism
m
:
Reader, why not he able to use the
most mysterious and powerful force of
nature? By my method you can learn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
[ form all the many manellous feats
that are possible to the Hypnotist.
[Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain ; win reluctant affection,
gratify your ambition*, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in hook f- rm a mammoth
i illustrated LESSON cr Key to
Hypnotism, -which fvlly explains
the mysteries and secrets
of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and i 8 the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever publ shed. For a short
time I wi 1 send this magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed on
receipt of 6d. (stamps) to cover
postage. Order to-day and learn
to Hypnotize. It is aci auce of
a life-time. Address—
MIA
R
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
MEN
If
you
are
suffering from
exhaustion, Vari-
cocele, Wasting,
Weakness, enclose 6 stamps (postage and
packing), and I will send a trial bottle of my
REHEDY, FREE.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING
to try my Life Syrup Remedies, which
give back strength of body and brain, renewed
vigor, and development of the vital organs;
not a free prescription dodge, but a trial of
my wonderful remedy free for the asking.
PROFESSOR H. READ,
165 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Charcoal-
THE ROAD
TO HEALTH IS
PAVED WITH
GOOD
DIGESTION.
Speedily cures Acidity. Flatulence, Heartburn,
Impure Breath, Indigestion, Diarrhoea, <fcc. It
destroys all disease germs, and,absorbing all impuri*
ties in the stomach and bowels,gives a healthy tone
to the whole system. Wards off all attacks of Typhoid
and other Fevers. Prevents many an illness.
BRAGG S PHRE CHARCOAL POWDER in
Bottles; LOZENGES and BISCUITS in Tins
(pleasant to take). Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Having had complaints of the injury done by other
preparations,please see that each Bottle or Tin bears
the Trade Mark ‘J.L.B., in monogram,'on the wrapper.
MEDICAL GALVANISM.
“ I\/rESSRS. HALE AND SON’S FIRM has distinguished
-*-*-*- itself in the development of ELECTRICAL
SCIENCE as a MEDICAL AGENT. By an entirely NEW
METHOD of application they have succeeded in produc-
ing an ELECTRIC BODY BELT, which for COMFORT,
EFFICACY and GENUINENESS is unquestionably far
superior to any previous invention. Yet the whole appli
ance is so compact that it only weighs a few ounces. In
this age of shams it is something to get an article that
has some power apart from imagination.” —Medical
Monthly.
HALE’S IMPROVED ELECTRIC BELTS have con-
quered the most OBSTINATE cases of NERVOUS and
other DISEASES after all other remedies have FAILED.
OUR SPECIAL ELECTRIC BELT WITH SUSPENSOR
FOR GENTLEMEN HAS NO EQUAL. Catalogue and
Price List gratis. CONSULTATION FREE.
HALE & SON, Medical Galvanists,
44 CASTLEREACH-STREET, SYDNEY.
cv
2
MAGNETIC
Francisco,
Rupture
Dr. Pierce’s Electric Truss
is a Marvel. Nothing like
it. Best Retainer on earth
and a Genuine Cure for Rupture.
World renowned. 27 improvem ts.
If ruptured, send a stamp, (any
sort), for new “Booklet No. I.’
E. TRUSS CO., 206 Post Street, San
U.S. A.; W. H. Sou I & CO-, Agents, Sydney.
Theßoman
Hair
Restorer
Produces Brown and Black Hair.
Price 1/6 ;by post, 2/3. J
An inexpensive and
certain preparation for
renewing and restoring
to its original color the
hair of the head, beard
and whiskers.
Lanrelv used by the Roman ladies for preserving their
magnificent tresses. Nourishes the roots and removes
dandruff ; inereases the quantity, and rel ?f v^ 3 , fc K ' Yf
and supple ; does not stain the skin nor so' l the linen,
your hair is falling off or turning grey .use this.
CAUTION.—This being different from most prepara
tions, other kinds should be refused.
JAMES BRINSMEAD and CO., Chemists, ST. KILD
Am. Chemists sell it.
At Dawn and Dusk :
By V J. Daley. In handsome cloth,
with portrait. Price 55.; postage, 4d.
WOOL. PRODUCE. CRAIN.
The New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Coy., Ltd., SYDNEY,
A.CT A.& selling brokers otvtt.y
Consignor* are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of this Company.
COMMISSION"
WOOL
FOR SELLING THREE-QUARTERS (f) PER CENT.
WAREHOUSING
(Including Receiving into Store, Fire Insurance,
Weighing, Lotting, Repacking, Sample Bales,
Advertising, Cataloguing, etc.) on Wool real-
ising over SIXPENCE per lb. the charges
- will be
On Wools realising SIXPENCE and over Four-
pence per lb :
On Wools realising FOURPENCE per lb. and
v. under
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. Gd. per Bale.
Is. Gd. per Bile.
Perfect System of Weighing. Way Bills sent on Application.
PRODUCE
SALES of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, etc., HELD WEEKLY.
Amrde!pLm^ C fT- ent - w ° ffe r e( ! growers to consign their grain for realisation by tho Compviy
desired m provid , e f „ 1,1 ree months free storage is allowed. Circulars are sent when
uesired giving cost of railage and full particulars as to Charges, Advances, eto., etc. ■
AGENTS FOR McDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP.
J. BARTRAM & SON,
34 & 36 Market Street, Sydney
,v 23 King Street, Mellbourne.
SOLE “AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES . . .
The ENGLISH DE LAVAL STEAM TURBINE CO. LTD., Leeds.
Makers of Steam Turbines, Turbine Dynamos, Turbine Puirps, Turb'ne Fans.
’ (Over 80,000 Horse power in use.)
Messrs. GREENWOOD & BATLEY LTD., Albion Works, Leeds.
Machine Tool Manufacturers and Electrical Engineers, Dynamos, Motors, Pumps, etc.
Messrs. CONNOLLY BROS. LTD,, Manchester.
- Insulated Cables, Wires, Tapes, eto.
-
*•' —■
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regrain Health?
Go to the Fountain Head
And consult Old Surgreon Langston, who will Cure
you. Forty years’ practice as a Specialist is sufficient
Guarantee of the doctor’s ability.
AVOID unskilled pretenders, flaming advertisements and specious
cure-alls.
Vigor and Strength
for all who
desire it.
OLD SURGEON LANGSTON,
Member Royal College of Surgeons, England, located in Melbourne
since 1886, has so perfected his method of treatment that it can
almost he said there are no hopeless or incurablo cases.
Be the equal of your fellow man
If you are a sufferer from any nervous, chronic Blood or Skin diseases, or interested in the subject of
Neurasthenia and associated evils, write at once for book of information, blank forms, etc., and have the
old doctor diagnose your case.
Seek the Truth, It costa INTothing!
All communications strictly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, cor RusselU Collins Sts., Melbourne.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
BMBRAcma
THE POPULAR “ PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 86 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which make’s it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1902 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
The Art of Wrestling, post Is. Hoyle’s Games, post 2/6
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted. Camille, Is 3d.
Secret History of the Court of England, 1 6 post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Ciiiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle's Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
How TO Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted. Sappho, Is.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
Tiie Wife’s Handbook, Is 2d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid’
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The of Clairvoyance, Is 3d.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s posted.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music comple e Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted la 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d posted.
Send for my Illustrated Big Book
Catalogue- post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney
Sending, mention this paper.
OF INTEREST to MEN
T\EAR SIR,—I have been cured of weakness and De-
bilitv by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHURST,
pi** street, Sydney.
riyiD
AUweJia
R?c°AWi«ifp
ex
FOR*
Induction
S
ervov/5
nEAoACHE
r fiATTvn V
GOUT
PILLS.
FOR GOUT,
RHEUMATISM.
SCIATICA.
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, ns one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAUU'S INDIAN CIRARFTTFS
For Asthmatic people who suiter from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault's Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
GRIMAULT & Co., Paris. Sold by all Chem st«.
; NOTICE
< To sufferers from Gout, Rheumatism. Sciatica,
I Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
i The Old Reliable English Remedy.
; PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
' Prepared by Poingdkstre & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Hoad, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
i efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
> parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
’ in the Australian Colonies.
► —-
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasites of Head or llody.
sold in two sizes, 9d. dk Is. 6d.
| N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN'S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstre & T ruman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use or
R I CORO’S
.tSSfet* cE of L \ F £••
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 123. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope
Agents for Australasia— PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne ; Wholesale Agents for New South Wales —
F. H. Fauldlngr & Co., 16 O'Ccnnell St., Sydney.
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely ove-come Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
’to the ear' as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable
Wo n months without removal
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.


We teach in 3 Lessons of 10 minutes
each sufficient for a pupil to write his
own notes, in a month to correspondence
speed, and in three months to Reporting
Speed. mmr
is® NEW SHORTHAND
(REGD.)
21 LESSONS FOR 425. TO COfIPLETION.
Payable 2s. 6d. per lesson first 16, 2s. for 17th, last 4 free.
Ser Page 35.
Country Pupils same terms, but postage
extra. Letters of enquiry must enclose
stamp for reply.
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
Safeguard
Your
Health
see
that your
Brandy
is
Bottled
in
Cognac.
BOTTLEO IN COGNAC.
€
w
J
finis J JO
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments maybe
secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards.
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted on applies
ti on to The Manager.
fj
TheCANZ
Electric Apparatus
are built right.
Let us give you some
evidence of their
superiority.
Canz Direst Current Arl-P. ope'l r. SOLE AGENTS !
The austral Qtis Engineering go., [td., South (|)e!b.
S? High-Class Smoking Mixture
n
HAS HO EQUAL EH QUALITY.
In |-lb. AIR-TIGHT TINS.
last^He-h'te^onWip'flmr^il'« e li»r>A-r^j a « fru ' t ' ess quest for an ideal smoking mixture, I have at
tobacco so injurious to the heart and aSpeHlieS ° f laM "
S. HOFFMUNG 8l CO. Ltd., Wholesale Tobacconists,
Wholesale Agents for Australia. and BRISBANE
SoleMamifaoturers : ARDATH TOBACCO CO., 44 Worship Street, London, England.
s>*7
==r E
ITS
I
5
5®
AARON’S
Exchange Hotel Co.,
SYDNEY.
Tlie system of paying for Room only and
Meals as required is adopted here.
£3 3s. per Week
9s. per Day
GORDON MARE, Secretary.
W. AIKEN, Manager,
28 Years in the Establishment.
To Smokers of High Class Mixture.
wills’ 5 “VICE-REGAL mixture
(Registered.)
Choice Blend of High Class and Carefully Selected TOBACCO.
Packed only in patent air-tight tins.
Manufactured in two grades—Medium and Full.
Price, is per 2oz. Tin.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vcl. 24.—N0. 1196.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 17, 1903.
Prick 6d
THAT DOG WON’T FIGHT.
MR. REID (at Melbourne) : “MY BATTLE-CRY AT THE NEXT ELECTION WILL BE FREETRADE."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the, Australians J’
Printed and Published bv William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney
New South Walks.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS AFTER
fat NOVEMBER . 1902
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... •••
Half-yearly ... ••• n v h
Quarterly ••• u ‘ u
notice.
lit! sending direct to Tire Bulletin Oflice Twenty-
Six'Shillings staling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed'to William Macleod, managing director.
Lit’vary communications to be addressed to J F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number, is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge.in the ••Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Terse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
inn two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded, as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable DfS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Bitf we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in lilaclc and White.
A nyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drauvngs in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea. hut. unfitted for direct reproduction
, i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies o' The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival o' each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludjate Circus.
South Africa— Messrs. Gord m and Gotch, Capetown ;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal ; Solomon
and IVi Don, 22 II out St., Can-town ; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban ; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
Ceylon.— Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver .-Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
R.C.
llong Kono. —Brewer and Co., 22 Queens Road, Ilong
Kong.
China.— Brewer and Co., SI Wanking Road, Shanghai.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 17, 1903.
The Explanation of Mr. Owe’Sullivan.
E. W. Owe’Sullivan, the tireless Minister
for Works of the N.S.W. Cabinet, a hard
borrower, an indefatigable letter-writer, and
a frenzied constructor of buildings, parks,
drains and stations, lately expounded his
public works theory in the Sydney dailies.
The following extract is the gist of his mes-
sage to the people, and is practically the
whole condensed gospel of Owe'Sullivan :
Let me, then, ask any fair-minded person what would
have happened to New South Wales if there had not been
a public works policy to employ the thousands of men
thrown out of work ? It is no flight of imagination to say
that, but for our large expenditure upon labor and mate-
rial, New South Wales to-day would be in a serious con-
dition commercially, industrially and financially.
The sum of £7,211,089 has been spent by our Public
Works Department since the 14th of December, 1899 (the
day we took office), till the 31st of December, 1902 ; and
fully five millions of that amount was for wages. These
wages were spent amongst shopkeepers, who, in their
turn, spent the money among merchants. The
lan fiords got their rents paid; the clergy, the
professional classes, the bankers, newspaper proprietors,
hotelkeepers, etc., all touched some of these seven
millions at a time when there was very little employment
for the people, and therefore very little other money in
circulation. Every fair-minded member of anyone of the
classes just mentioned will now, I believe, be inclined to
state that it was the policy of the Lyne and See Adminis-
trations which pulled New South Wales out of her
difficulties and kept her upon an even keel during the
severity of the drought. It is morally certain also that if
the same policy is not pursued for the next two years the
serious storm which we have weathered may again con-
front us. Therefore the policy of the Lyne and See
Administrations, instead of being condemned, should be
approved of by every person whose mind has not been
warped by the unfair criticism of opponents.
Let it lie clearly understood also that the expenditure
upon public works by the Lyne and See Administrations
has been chiefly upon reproductive works, many of which
are already bringing in 3.) and 4 per cent., and even more.
Here is the list of works carried out in little more than
three years : Seventeen railways, costing £1,789,602 ; 29
tramways, costing £457,606 ; 107 harbor and river works,
costing £1,137,658 ; 2061 buildings erected or repaired, at
a cost of £890,972 ; 121 sewerage works, costing £517,247;
342 water conservation works, artesian bores, and public
watering places, at a cost of £307,741 ; 91 roads and
bridges, chargeable to loans, at a cost of £412,032 ; and
11,817 ditto, chargeable to revenue, at a cost of
£1,411,530 ; 12 works for clearing Crown lands, at a cost
of £23,371 ; one pneumatic tube, £4340; 11 telephone
tunnels, £45,453; two flood channels, £BO3 ; 49 country
towns and water supplies, £141 ( 992 ; and Sydney water
supply and improvements, five m number, £40,742.
In addition to the foregoing, we are building the hand-
somest railway-station in the world, with splendid
approaches 100 ft. wide, planted on each side with trees,
and with a park in front of the main building.
All these works are irrespective of the works done by
the Water and Sewerage Board, the Sydney Harbor
Trust, and the Railway Commissioners.
It will be Been from what I have said that the works
carried nut hv the aid of this expenditure of seven
millions are ■> i ther of a reproductive or essential char-
acter (such as roads and bridges, the public buildings,
&c.). Railways, tramways, sewerage works, artesian
wells, water supplies for towns and water conservation
works for the country districts, tanks and wells, give a
return from the date of completion—often more than 4
per cent, on the cost of construction. How, then, can
this be called reckless expenditure ? On the contrary, it
gives N.S.W. a number of going concerns, which add
considerably to her revenue, and thus enable her to
avoid the financial difficulties which have beset other
States.
• » * *
Tliere is a quaint, drunken element of
self-deception about the gospel of loan ex-
penditure as preached by the great
Owe’Sullivan. He cheerfully assures the
public, to begin with, that many of his new
works are already bringing in or 4 per
cent., or even more. And he probably
believes it. The old railways of N.S.W.
have been worked at a loss ever since they
were built—the accumulated shortage is now
£8,000,000 or so—and last year they didn’t
yield 3£ per cent., let alone 4. The new
railways are [laying so much worse than the
old ones that the railway revenue for the
half-year just closed is £75,000 less than for
the corresponding half of 1901 —£75,000'
less coming in, and about £75,000 more in-
terest going out. The new railway station—
•the finest one in the world —yields no
revenue at all, and is never likely to ; it
merely replaces out of loans an old work also’
built out of loans. The repairs to buildings
yield nothing. The water conservation
works yield little as yet, and they are
hardly expected to yield much in the way of
direct revenue. Sewerage works earn noth-
ing except in the sense that they are a.
necessary precaution, and that people are
taxed to pay for the use of them. Roads, gaols,
courthouses, asylums, and the great bulk of
the other works yield nothing, however
necessary they are. Telephone tunnels
are necessary, but they don’t add to
the telephone revenue. Dredging works,
river-snagging, the making of parks, etc.,
yield nothing. It may be that the Owe’
Sullivan can point to one or two of his
publ,ic works that yield over 4 per cent. [
this paper will swear that the whole lot
don’t, so far, yield 2 per cent, all round —
probably not 1 per cent. And in addition,
to the fact that the other or 2 or 1\ per cent,
interest on loans lias to be made good out of
taxation, all these new works involve a huge
extra and perpetual expense for repair and
maintenance. Every new road, building,
park, etc., is an additional charge on the
revenue unless it is to be allowed to fall to
pieces again.
* * * *
It is a silly and demoralising theory
to suppose -spthat even railways are
“going concerns” in themselves. They are
only intended to carry the produce of manu-
facturing, agricultural, pastoral and mining
industries, or to carry the people engaged
in them, and all the other varieties of
public works are the same, only more so.
Unless there is an increase of self-supporting
industries to employ the new public works
they are no more going concerns than is a
mountain or a tombstone. They won’t
“go” unless there is something behind to
make them go, and they won’t go to any
profitable extent unless there is sufficient
behind to make them go. They aren’t
eatable, drinkable, wearable or saleable, and
they have no volition or earning capacity
whatsoever of their own. Making railways
is good when there are people and goods to
travel on them, and building houses is good
when there are people enough to live in
them, and making kilts is profitable when
there are Highlanders enough to wear them,
but making any of those for the mere supply
of employment is a very different thing.
* • * *
Mr. Owe’Sullivan claims proudly that he
constructed many million pounds worth of
public works to furnish employment in a
time of scarcity—at least that seems to be
the purport of his remarks. He did it to
keep the country on an even keel. It is a
noble thing to keep the country on an even
keel, but when the thing is carried too far,
and the country is insanely cocked up at one
end it becomes ridiculous. The theory of
the “even keel” is about this: In good
times N.S.W. spends all its ordinary
revenue, all it can get by selling and
leasing the public estate, and two or
three millions of loan money, much of it on
hopelessly unproductive undertakings, as
well. That drunken state of boom is
described as being on an even keel. And
when the earnings of ordinary, self-support-
ing industries fall off, N.S.W. endeavors,
under the Owe’Sullivan’s guidance, to bor-
row so much more that it will be as drunk in
bad times as it was in good ones. If
N.S.W., in reasonably good years, paid for
all its public works out of revenue and regu-
larly }>aid half-a-million off its debts, it
might fairly borrow two or three millions in
very bad years so as to distribute the disas-
ter, just as the person who is sober 364 days
in the year may reasonably get drunk to
drown some specific misfortune—say the
death of his Presbyterian uncle—on the
365th. But to be drunk 200 days in the
year, and drunker on the other 165 is
another thing.
♦ • • •
Every community has bad years. There
are years of drought, flood, war, business
crisis, low prices, pestilence, and other
troubles. There is nothing for it but to pay
for these disasters and repair them in the
best way possible—but the Owe’SuLLIVAN
regards the people of N.S.W. as an especially
blessed or especially pampered race who
shouldn’t pay at any time. It was certainly
the duty of the Government to make a special
effort to find work for that section of the
community which was ruined by the last
especially virulent years of the drought.
'The opportunity was a splendid one.
New South Wales has no cotton fac-
tories, no silk factories, very few woollen
factories, not nearly enough boot factories to
supply its own requirements, and not one
distillery ; it imports over £1,000,000 worth
Annually of clothes ; it buys practically all
its steel rails from abroad ; and in other
ways it imports enormously. Some of these
industries represent work which requires
very little skill, and all of them furnish a
certain amount of unskilled, or compara-
tively unskilled, work. Even bags and
sacks, which represent a miserably common
-variety of industry, are imported by N.S.W.
to the extent of nearly £300,000 a year. A
■Government which hadn’t the borrowing
•corruption in its bones would, when other
industries fell through in a time of extra
•disaster, start State factories for the manu-
facture of anything or everything that
the country requires and which it doesn’t
already supply, or give aids to private
•employers to induce them to do so.
Its workers might not produce at first to
Anything like the value which more skilled
labor could produce, but at least they would
produce something. The State wouldn't re-
quire to find them 6s. or 7s. a day for their
support; they would at least earn a good
part of the money themselves. And some,
at least, of the industries would survive and
become permanent and self-supporting.
• * • •
At such a time a sane Government would
levy extra taxation on those classes which
escaped the ruin of the drought in order to
find means to found new industries, and to
relieve special distress ; and it would practise
•every form of economy in order to find the
money for purely relief works where such
were absolutely necessary. It would seek to
distribute the burden of the disaster, which is
quite different from trying to live even more
luxuriously than when there is no disaster.
N.S.W. has to pay its drought losses some
•day, unless it proposes to swindle its bond-
holders, and it may as well pay them now as
any other time. A large section of the
N.S.W. community suffered severely during
these last dry and bitter years, but the com-
munity, as a whole, if the trade returns
count for anything, bought more foreign
goods, ate more, drank more, and had a more
riotous time than in many previous years
when rain was abundant and a reasonable
state of prosperity was supposed to prevail.
The riot was very unevenly distributed, but
it was there. And the theory that a State
which is drunk all the time should be a little
drunker than usual when it is least able to
pay for the liquor, is unwholesome.
• • • •
New South Wales has already far more
public works than its population justifies,
and far more population than is justified by
the number and extent of its self-supporting
industries. And in the silly and primitive
lexicon of Owe’Sullivan the remedy for
everything is more public works—more rail-
ways and roads when there is less to carry
on them, more telegraphs when there is less
business to telegraph about, more debt
when there is less means of paying it, and
more interest to pay out of smaller resources.
The specially bad times which call for an
extra large addition to the debt are always
coming ; the specially good times which
justify a partial repayment of the debt, or
the moderately good times which justify the
State in leaving its debt stationary, never
come. And it requires very little to create
the situation which calls for a special bor-
rowing effort. In 1901 the produce of all
N.S.W. industries was £375,000 more than
in 1899, and the loan expenditure, which
was high enough in ’99, was promptly
increased by £716,475 to keep the State on
an “even keel.” In 1902 the production
fell off instead of increasing, though the
extent of the falling off isn’t known yet, so
the loan expenditure was increased again by
another t‘2,157,264 to keep the State on the
same old keel. When things are improving
loan expenditure increases to make them still
better ; when they are deteriorating it in-
creases some more to prevent them getting
worse. That is OwE’SuLLiVAN-ism put a
sentence.
The Campaign against Trades-Unionism.
Trades-unionism, when closely examined, can
hardly be called a principle—certainly not an
ethical principle. It is rather an expedient, in some
respects a clumsy expedient, for securing relief
from certain very well-defined evils, by methods
generally, vaguely defined and not always admir-
able-considered as means. But, like some other
expedients of civilisation, its preservation, for the
present, is vitally necessary ; it may be only des-
troyed (whilst industrial conditions are as they
are) at the price of grave suffering to that class of
the community which already carries more than a
fair share of the burden of society, or of an out-
break of revolutionary violence—probably the
latter. Yet, in their blindness, the employing
classes in Australia, < as in England, are
just now engaged in a legal campaign
against the principle of trades-unionism, and
are jubilant at the success of certain initial
skirmishes which seem to promise them a full
victory. In England what is known as the Taff
\ ale decision, the practical effect of which is to
make a trades-union liable for the individual acts
of its members and to throw upon it the responsi-
bility ,of any damage caused by their actions, is being
pushed home; and, acting on that precedent a
decision has been already sought (and gained)
from a E.S.W. court on the same lines. In alarm,
the workers are seeking an amendment of existing
laws to render null the Taff Vale decision and to
secure defined immunities and privileges for
trades-unions. Action of that sort is suggested
in England and by the N.S.W. Labor party
The situation, in truth, is one full of danger to
the Labor movement in its broadest meaning—
the movement which claims that the Man with the
Hoe has a smaller than just share and the Man
with Capital a larger than just share of the
world’s products. And it is not less dangerous
because the issues at stake being complex, and
the scope for plausible sophistry great, the daily
press, which is, in Australia at any rate, always
on the side of the Man with Capital, has set itself
to gratify its hatred of the Labor movement by
ingeniously cunning misrepresentations. Sydney
Daily Telegraph, for instance, on Dec. 31:
Concerning the platform outlined for the (Political
Labour League) conference, there is in it little that is
new, and this is of a character so nebulous as to almost
preclude practical discussion. There is, for 'instance, a
“ Trades Union Act Amendment Bill to relieve unions of
the disabilities imposed upon them by the Privy Council
decision in the Taff Vale case." What “ disabilities ” ?
All the Taff Vale decision does is to declare that trades
unions have the legal responsibility naturally adhering to
all legally recognised rights. The divorcement of this
right from its concomitant responsibility, if justifiable in
the case of one incorporated body, shou.d be equally so
in all. It will be for the league, therefore, to define the
reach of this new Labor demand, and also to explain
why, if corporations should have liberty to break laws,
individuals should not have the same privilege. A
Trades Union Amendment Act would not repeal the
common law that was broken in the TafT Vale case ; the
most it could do is to license unions to violate it. The
justice and the policy of such a license will require a lot
of explanation before the conscience or the common-sense
of the people consents to its being granted.
* * • *
The effect of this is all falsehood, though some
of the individual statements are true enough. It
is necessary to have some clear idea as to the
growth and purpose of trades-unionism to recog-
rise the ingenious sophistries. Modern trades-
unionism began with modern industrialism—that
vast unsettlement of conditions of employment
which entirely eliminated the personal equa-
tion from the labor problem, cleared away the old
semi-paternal relations between employer and
employed, and set up instead the capitalist and
the “hand.” The new system practically abolished
conscience and personal responsibility, which had
been the two great bulwarks against the oppres-
sion of the man with labor to sell by
the man with money —especially when the
joint stock company system began to have
its vogue. Child and woman labor under re-
volting conditions of hardship, infamous sweating
of the male workers, were natural, almost neces-
sary, results. In those European countries where
conditions most nearly approximated to the Asiatic
level, the workers sank into the seifdom of these
conditions almost without protest. In other
lands, a struggle was made for Liberty. In
France by the great Revolution, in England by a
series of smaller efforts in the sime direction, a
betterment was secured either by slaying the
capitalists or by regulating their greed by Acts of
Parliament. The basis of all these movements
was a union of the workers. The individual wage-
slave was powerless to effectively protest against
the tyranny of a big employer or of a bad system,
but in numbers he could become terrible by build-
ing a barricade or by smashing a factory. In
England—to confine the argument to that coun-
try—the workers formed rough-and-ready trades-
unions, the primary object of which was to break
up machinery, to riot through the streets, or to
overawe Parliament by turbulent gatherings.
• • * •
Thus the beginning of trades-unionism was
illegal ; and, necessarily, as will be shown, its
development since has always been on lines which
were technically outside the law. A strike is, to
all intents and purposes, a conspiracy to damage
an employer or a number of employers. One man
may leave his employment legally ; if a number
of them band together, and, with the avowed
object of injuring an employer who seeks to
reduce their wages, go out on strike to try and
force him to withdraw the reduction, the legal
trespass is obvious. (If a number of employers
band together to lock-out their employees that
should, on the face of it, be criminal con-
spiracy, too, but the law’s net is not for
such big fish, and whilst a strike-conspiracy is
easily provable, a lock-out conspiracy is not.)
What has to be kept in mind is that trades-
unionism was from the first illegal; that the
landlord and capitalistic classes endeavored to
suppress it by the aid of the law ; that in France
they succeeded to the great glory of the guillotine ;
that in England they didn’t succeed, for the ruling
classes had wiser heads on their shoulders, and,
prefering to keep them there, made concessions
to the industrial discontent in the shape of
franchise reform and trades-union legislation.
The latter set at defiance the common law by
making certain sorts of “conspiracy” legal, and
by creating corporations which were and were
not corporations—able to sue on their own
account in some contingencies, but not liable
to be sued. _ The illegal trades-union thus
gained a kind of shield in the shape of
statute law, and of a body of judicial decisions
which were, in a measure, forced from the Judges
by the anxious nature of the times, with the
spirit of Revolution abroad and no landlord’s neck
safe from fracture. They were concessions not
from Justice, but from fear, and, that being so,
were clumsily given. The net result was that
workmen were able to form themselves into legal-
ised combinations and, as such, to set to the
illegal work—when necessity arose—of striking
and boycotting. This was the alternative to
allowing machinery riots and Chartist demonstra-
tions to develope into a movement which would
have brought a whole horde of German prince-
lings and English landlords to the scaff< Id, or to
the almost equally distasteful fate of honest toil.
It was unpleasant to the privileged classes to
make concessions to the workers, but it had to be
done.
* • * •
The position now is that it is sought by judicial
decision to withdraw those concessions, to put
trades-unions in a position where they will be
absolutely powerless to organise strikes and where
-t.bgX.will, therefore, be at the mercy of the em-
ployers. Apart from all sophistry as to legality
and illegality, that is the net result of the Taff
|Vale decision pushed to its logical conclusion.
The judiciary may be expected, if no other
circumstances intervene, to push it to that logical
conclusion. The trades-union, especially the
striking trades-union, can very rarely meet with a
judge whose ideas are sympathetic. The judge is
a professional man, accustomed to find that the
law of supply and demand is a very good law
indeed, because under it his special skill finds
generous monetary recognition; he, as a rule,
simply can’t understand that the great mass
of the workers with no special skill, or with
but a poor atom of it which is shared bv
ma, U thousands of others, must under present
conditions, if not allowed a little more or less
illegal interference with the law of supply and
demand, inevitably sink to serfdom. A honor of
strike tactics can be reasonably expected from
ul° S j '^ uc^Bes > and certain employers, in their
blindness, seem to wish to take full advantage of
the fact to enforce the curious Taff Vale decision.
* • • •
In their blindness ! for trades-unionism is the


s® 3£Sf u &!?si£;
S p, “;rn™!;‘;.,r‘iIr'":', 1 r '" : ' , " m ;r J before - “ d "™*K
weremadP T? / discovered again if the test
commZ fiw of Ste’rKS. of «)• «t
illegality „ay be granC gi™
wfrtr^f 0 t^ n . Di,Lv T “r"S
fordT‘rdi^The€£r^FirhF tJ,? '
With some ilft d?ne mU j h . in that direction,
with some extensions and improvements and
honest administration, it may be made to serve as
? tin e trades-unfonismT
it rding a palliation to social misery But
trades-unionism and the right to strike will need
to be retained until there is a substitute of proved
disfranchised workers
?V he , late 18tb an d early 19th centuries would not
tolerate a condition of affairs which the Taff Yale
r e -establist >- it is absolutely
i th fc /I'® i ar m . ore ln telligent and enfran-
Carey oT will ” 0 £ Prfisid «nt Randar
Caret, of the Sydney D.T., and the other em-
ployers engaged in what is practically a campaign
against trades-unionism, suggest the frogs who
deposed King Bog for King Stork.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Hopelessness of State Politics.
Sydney Daily Telegraph of Jan. 7th, in a
moment of clear sight, saw of a sudden the hope-
S s q n w P f T he °PP° si t ion party (its party) in
.N.S.W. Parliament, and spoke in bitterness—
These are facts that go to utterly stultify the protests
against Ministerial extravagance now raised by the
Opposition leader and his supporters. They endorse by
their unanimous acquiescence Mr. O’Sullivan’s boom
policy when put before them in concrete, while con-
,rL the * abstract - What is the use of that ?
Juti? 11 1i 18 K? r aS fref l uentl y twitted them with getting
money they could for their own electorates,
and when the duty of discussing the items of works ex-
penditure came before them they justified that taunt by
letting the whole estimate go through with their tongues
eYhlhif!nn ch f 6 f k^f n , Mr - O’Sullivan claims that as an
exhibition of faith in his policy. Whatever it was, it
unfortunately discounts the force of Mr. Carruthers’
present protests against that policy.
Mr. Carruthers has. since displayed the stream-
ing wound which this condemnation inflicted on
him, with the air of a patriotic Caesar stabbed by
a most ignoble Brutus. And it must have been a
sad shock to him when the knife of the
King-street daily entered between his ribs. But,
apart from all question as to the “ingrati-
tude of the D.T. in thus casting down the
leader whom it had just created, and whose policy
it had, up to January 6, emphatically endorsed,
it was a clear, cold truth which that paper uttered
on Jan. 7. The Carruthers party in N.S.W.
politics is hopeless, and does share the worst vices of
the See-Owe Sullivan party (without sharing its
virtues). The Lyne party, which held power so
long by grace of the D.T., was hopelessly incap-
able and extravagant. The See party which fol-
lowed, in spite of thi£-efforts of the same paper
(just then under a serious cloud, politically), was
even more hopelessly inept and reckless. The Lee
party, which was once more or less seriously sug-
gested as a substitute, soon became so palpably
ridiculous that it disappeared, and its solemn
leader is now no more heard of. The
Carruthers party, which is the latest suggested
alternative to the Owe-See-Sullivan gang, is, if
that could be possible, a shade more ridiculous
than the Lee party, because its leader is known
to have snapped with hungry chops at the offer of
a place in the existing Cabinet ; and has shown
repeatedly (more particularly at the conference of
parties in regard to drought relief) that he is in
full sympathy with the dishonest Borrow-or-Bust
policy. The See party is a reckless profligate
which compels, in spite of its sins, a certain reluc-
tant atom .of affection, because of the genial
diablerie with which it goes to the deuce. The
Carruthers party is just as much of a profligate,
but of a sour and secret-drinker type, just
as much resolved on taking the State along
the road to ruin, 'but wishing to do it in
a grim and ugly way. Where then is the hope in
State politics? The Bulletin would like to pin
its faith to the Labor Party—the party which is
above the average in ability and sincerity and has
not committed any grave sins itself, even if it has
acquiesced in many wrong actions. But that is
impossible until the Labor Tarty turns its thoughts
seriously to Financial Reform and becomes an
anti-borrowing party. In N.S.W. Parliament, at
the present time, there is not much to see that is
hopeful. And, outside, the position is hardly
better. The D.T., in its virtuous and clear-sighted
mood of Jan. 7, would have us believe that there is
hope of a reform movement from the outside, en-
gineered from its King-street office. Certainly an
honest, capable, patriotic daily paper could, in six
months, organise a party that would capture
Parliament and reform the State. But the D.T.
is not that paper The last time Mr. J. Randal
Carey’s organ controlled a Cabinet, was in the
days of rogue-elephant Lyne, when everybody in
N.S.W. who was really anybody was swilling free
champagne and going about with the promise of a
fat billet in his memory. On the whole, The
Bulletin does not see much hope in N.S.W.
State politics, or in Victorian, or in South Aus-
tralian, or in Queensland State politics. From
the present point of view, the best hope for the
continent seems to be that the people will one
day get tired of all of them, and ask the Federal
Parliament to do everything that is of any im-
portance in the way of governing. It is a cheer-
ful thought that, however awful the muddle may
become in the States, there is always that way
out.
’ —. ♦
The Adelaide Tramway Gr~b.
The fact that Adelaide’s private tramway grab
syndicate seems to be in considerable trouble—
that it hasn’t started work, that apparently it has
failed so far to form a company to build the new
electric trams, and that it now wants “more
time ” in which to make arrangements, recalls the
boundless cheek with which the grabbers faced
the public when they applied for their concession.
At this appropriate time, Adelaide Herald
reprints some of the almost forgotten misrepresen-
tations on which the great reach-out was based.
This, for instance, was one statement made in
Parliament two years ago :
The promoters—the Westinghouse and Callender Com-
panies—were companies of the highest standing, world-
wide reputation, and of first rank in electrical manu-
facture. They had the necessary financial support, and
would commence the work of conversion without delay.
And this—also stated in the Assembly two years
ago :
No practical proposition had been made to the tramway
companies or had been brought before the public for the
conversion of the Adelaide tramways to electric traction
£ f rMxh th lvLr Ut , forwird by Mr - Snow on behalf of the
and Cable a^ C ci^t^ctim?Co? a^ C °‘
'Tl** tlle be^nill ’ng of February, 1902, that
Hide WaS acce P te . d at a referendum of Ade-
laide ratepayers—carried partly by the plural
votes of propertied ratepayers, partly by the votes
of poor men led away by the brutal mockery of a
diately 6 and* be
aiately and that the new tramway grab would
!“ r n n ' S r h the K m u Vlth em P lo yment coming
winterTs'coming? Tnd Me SSSIS^
th^yin r S e thifL V s e hio o n^ e SyDdiCate rUbbed
groundworks Mnth, h V oUld not put a pick in th *
ground ror 18 months. It was apparent that thev would
there P wp up th ® until the rails were ready but
red V r^ 8 , °1- thou , BandB tons of ballwt
requirea. The specifications for these were readv and
wor^! morninff the y woulc * call for tenders for the
I hat was nearly 52 Tuesdays ago. Also the
ttiSlhat“ sured the public ‘ mon e »«■«
a a " proceed,n ? Wlth the necessary preparation,
bouth Australia knows well enough now that
some at least of these statements were heartless
bes> and that some of the votes which helped to
scbeme at the referendum were votes
° b^’ f} under false pretences-and obtaining
votes that way should carry the same penalty as
obtaining money under false pretences. The
work wasn t started as promised, and the un-
employed to whom employment was assured, ate
their hearts out with hope deferred, until the
misery of their disappointment should have made
some responsible person go and hang himself for
very shame. And now South Australia—that
part of it which isn't wholly sold to Jenkins
Iscariot, the book-fiend—surely wants to know
something more ! It surely wants to know
it these great, rich, reputable corporations that
were supposedly at the back of the concern have
become hard-up all at once, or have gone broke
secretiy, or if it was all a lie about their wealth
or if it was all a lie about them being in the con-
cern at all. South Australia is told now that
money is tight, and that new ventures are difficult
to negotiate; but money is little, if any, tighter
now than it was when all these glowing promises
were made, and S.A. was assured a year or two
ago that this venture didn’t require floating in the
ordinary sense, because two splendidly-reliable
companies were already interested in the matter
and were going to begin work at once. Either
way, the people were urged to assent to
the great tramway grab by false assurances;
though whether all of the statements made
or only some of them were false, and
whether, among the persons who circulated
them, this one was an Ananias who was bought
or that one was a fool who was sold, or vice versa,
are questions that can’t be answered yet. Any-
how, many Adelaide writers and politicians
pledged themselves to things which weren’t true,
and a valuable concession was gained with the
support and aid of assurances which weren’t true,
and it is time for the parties concerned to explain
for their sake, if they have any
characters.
The Blood of Tommy Tanna.
For the edification of alien-coddlers generally the
following figures are given :—The Kanaka mor-
tality for Bundaberg district runs thus : For the
month of September, 1902, out of 26 male deaths
17 were Kanakas and one a Chinaman. For
the quarter ending Dec., 1902, 71 males died,
of whom 38 were Kanakas and three Chinese.
For the whole year 1902, out of 228 deaths of
males no less than 125 were deaths of Kanakas.
That is to say, over 50 per cent, of the deaths
(of males) in the district were deaths of Poly-
nesians, although the white male population is
between three and four times as great as the male
Kanaka population. Hitherto the decimation of
the Kanaka population has been the mainspring
of prosperity to the Q. sugar industry, and the sky-
pilots who have preached in favor of the continu-
ance of the Blackbird traffic on account of the
facilities it afforded for Christianising the “ boys,”
could usually calculate with certainty that the
Kanaka’s religious conversion would soon be fol-
lowed by a “ translation ” to that sphere for
which the conversion was supposed to fit him.
Few people (especially in the southern States)
realise at what a gruesome cost in flesh and blood
the Q. sugar planter built up his glorious industry.
♦
Labor and Federalism.
The complaint of the Lithgow (N.S.W.) iron-
workers that their employer, after receiving some
benefit from the new Federal tariff, attempted to
cut down the wages of the hands, and, failing
that, shut down his sheet-iron mills, is as yet ex
parte ; and there may be another side to the story.
But, in any case, it gives a useful hint to Australian
legislators with progressive views. To the
Federal Parliament the Commonwealth has en-
trusted the protection of Australian industries,
and a tariff which—though in many respects
faulty, and in most respects falling short of
what is needed serves to guard the in-
terests of the Australian manufacturer to some
extent, has been passed. The object of that
tariff is not, however, so much the protection of
capital, as of labor. Without a tariff very many
important manufactures could be carried on,
provided that the employees would accept con-
siderably less than the European wage-rate to
make up for lack of skill and the other preliminary
difficulties. Protection is given so that a reason-
ably high Australian wage-rate may be paid ; and
the object of Protection is defeated if that high
rate does not rule. And since human nature is
human nature, and the incidence of Protection
in his calling will not change a greedy capitalist
into a reasonable one, it is the duty of the
Australian Parliament, coincidently with the
granting of Protection, to insist on a fair
wage-rate. That is a duty which the Aus-
tralian Parliament is willing enough, probably,
to undertake, but for which at present it lacks the
authority. The Constitution only gives it a per-
missive right to undertake the regulation of labor
conditions, if the States are willing. It should be,
therefore, one of the first “ planks ” in the plat-
form of every reform party in a State Parliament
that full control of industrial legislation for the
Commonwealth should be vested in the Australian
Legislature. Then the power that holds the
shield over an industry can insist at the same
time that there shall be no “sweating” beneath
that segis. The bargain suggested to the manu-
facturer will be an equitable one: Protec-
tion against foreign cheap labor, provided he
does not seek to make local labor cheap.
The reproach is often cast upon the United
States tariff system that its benefits are all
for the capitalist. The reproach is mostly a
lie, for the American workman, as a result of the
M'Kinley tariff, is the highest-paid and the most
prosperous in the world. But it has a flavoring
of truth inasmuch as the American worker,
whilst getting high wages, does not always get as
nigh as he should. In Australia, with its uniquely
i? m ? Cra tio system of Federal Government, there
should be no reason for any injustice in that
ar . < f~P rov ided that the Federal Parliament has
the right to pass wage-regulation and industrial
arbitration laws, the workman can be guaranteed
the full benefit of the Protection which is designed
for him. The essential first step to that end is
the transfer of industrial legislation to the
Commonwealth from the States.
♦
The South-East corner of Cornstalk
Land.
If the proposal to make a Federal capital at
Jtsombala is carried out, N.S.W. should suddenly
discover that it has a much-neglected but most
valuable asset down that way. Even supposing
that 5000 square miles of the district are transferred
to the Australian Government for a Federal
capital and a Federal territory, there would be
enough valuable and suddenly-discovered property
left to make N.S.W. sit up in surprise. The
south-east corner may be said to consist of nine
counties—Auckland, Dampier, Beresford, Welles-
ley, Wallace, Selwyn, Buccleuch, Cowley and
Murray. They are mostly table-land, with a cool
climate, a respectable rainfall, a considerable pro-
portion of reasonably good soil, and most of
very f ew permanently-running rivers of
N.S.W. Their small wheat area averaged 12
bushels to the acre in 1902. And this south-east
corner of over 15,000 square miles, averages less
than three persons per square mile. (One county
of 1158 square miles has one square mile under
cultivation, and 71 people engaged in agriculture
—the whole population is 792). This is the region
through which theGoulburn-Cooma railway runs—
tra r n] W,l f which, for want of population, loses
N.S.W. £42,000 a year. It is a region of big
estates and sheep—not nearly so many sheep as it
might carry if the land were cut up into small
holdings, but sheep none the less. It is a region
where it is possible to follow a well and ex-
pensively-made road for 55 miles and pass only
one hamlet on the way—a hamlet not large enough
even to support an hotel. It is dotted all over with
the abandoned houses of the dummy selector who
is gone—to the Benevolent Asylum in his old age.
A graduated land-tax (not like George Reid’s)
that would smite the biggest land-holders to the
extent of 6d. in the £ on rental value, and make
the holding of very large areas impossible, might
break up this favored district into comparatively
small holdings, and settle enough population on
it to make the Goulburn-Cooma railway pay—a
population that could afford, among other things,
to keep its own roads in repair. The existence of
this south-east corner in its present state, and the
existence of an almost similar, and almost equally
lost north-east corner, is only another evidence
that N.S.W., having discovered the West and
found it Sheol, requires to come back on its tracks
and re-discover the East again. The drawback
under which both the north-east and the south-
east suffer is that their trade doesn’t tend to come
to Sydney. They have ports of their own. No
place whose trade doesn’t tend to come to Sydney
is of any real account in N.S.W. If railways are
constructed westward to all manner of placeson the
rim of the Bottomless Pit, the trade may not pay
for axle grease, but what there is of it comes to
Sydney, and that is the first essential. There
is room on Monaro, and some kind of a living even
in the worst seasons, for all the perished agricul-
turists of the west, but the big estates, and
George Reid’s mechanical ld.-in-the-£ land-tax,
which doesn’t break them up, and the desire to
bring everything to Sydney, are in the way. Even
the Federal capital, if it can be contrived, is to be
on the western line, where all its trade will come
to Sydney. But if, by any chance, that capital
locates itself at Bombala, N.S.W. will suddenly
find a most valuable and almost forgotten asset
thereabouts—one that will be worth a vast amount
more than even a new £4,000,000 loan. It doesn’t
W'ant to be rushed at open-mouthed by any wild
Owe’Sullivan and streaked over with new rail-
ways—not yet, at all events. The first essential
is, by a vigorous cutting up of the big estates, to
make room for enough population to make the
present railway pay, and then start a process of
extension.
Be Clause 114.
A State shall not . . . impose any tax on property of
any kind belonging to the Commonwealth ; nor shall the
Commonwealth impose any tax on property of any kind
belonging to a State.— Australian Constitution, Clause
UU.
The above clause is being used as one more
weapon in the miserable, vicious and grudging
campaign of pin-pricks which State politicians
and the parochial-minded State press is carrying
on against the Australian Government. The in-
tention of the clause is reasonably obvious. The
Australian Parliament may not levy taxation on
the public lands or public buildings of a State, or
on furniture in its public buildings, or on its “pro-
perty” generally. “Property,” in the ordinary,
everyday sense, is something quite different from
“goods ; ” a man alludes to his house as his pro-
perty, but he doesn’t habitually call the bacon he
eats at breakfast property. Nevertheless, two
State Governments—those of N.S.W. and Queens-
land—have devised the idea that all goods im-
ported by a State Government should come in free
of customs taxation under this clause, and the matter
is to be tried in the law courts. If the State
Governments carry their point, they gain very
little but the satisfaction of having been sour,
mean, cranky and disagreeable to the only Legis-
lature in Australia which, by reason of its
splendidly liberal franchise, absolutely represents
the people ; and they set up a position by which
they may lose enormously. Supposing they do
succeed in having it laid down that all goods which,
at the date of importation, are State property, must
come in free, then a time may arrive when a Free-
trade State Government will set up business as a
general importer, and almost everything, including
beer and whisky, will thus come in without
paying duty, the State re-selling to local
merchants. This would be none too good
for John See’s produce business, and would
bring about disastrous results to the revenue.
It would give the Freetrade party a chance to
raise the fiscal issue again in State politics, and
to kick out the See crowd on that issue. It would
naturally knock inter-State Freetrade endways,
for the goods which, being imported by the
Government, paid no duty in the State where
they were imported, couldn’t be allowed to
pass into the other States. Obviously there
would have to be an amendment of the
Constitution —an amendment in which the
Australian Government appealed to the people
against two unpatriotic and meanly quarrelsome
State Premiers. Or, if there was no amendment
of the Constitution, the new system, by opening
the way for a great loss of customs and
excise revenue, would only hasten the time
the Australian Government would have to levy a
land-tax and income-tax of its own. The fact that
such a silly and dangerous question should be
raised at all only emphasises the fact that most of
the best men have gone into the Australian Par-
liament, and left most of the political scum behind
in the State Legislatures.
♦
A Drapery Prohibition League.
Thk Bulletin hears from Maoriland of the forma-
tion there of a Women’s Dress Prohibition League,
with in one sense allied, in another sense rival,
organisations aiming at Local Option in regard to
women’s dress, and to Temperance in women’s
dress. The Prohibition League, which finds it
difficult at times to conceal its scorn of the half-
hearted and make-shift methods of the two other
organisations, aims at the absolute prohibition of
all clothing by females : the Local Option League
would leave the question as to whether a woman
should be clothed or not to her husband, her
father, or, failing them, to the nearest J.P. or
other competent local authority ; the Women’s
Temperance Dress .League aimi only at
curbing excessive indulgence in drapery, millinery,
and other articles of adornment by which women’s
minds are intoxicated, happy homes ruined, vice
encouraged and social misery fostered. The abso-
lute prohibition league has so far secured the bulk
of public support. Its existence is due to a
recognition, the more vivid because somewhat
tardy, of the awful evils arising from the drapery
traffic. Mr. John Snorks was its founder.
Married to a lady who had borne to him three
children, whom he was bringing up under circum-
stances of the strictest piety and the most rigorous
godliness, he was obliged to combat in his wife,
almost from the inception of his married life, a
craving for drapery. She would spend whole
days in the pursuit of dress materials, and her
nights were often lost to the charm of the
domestic circle whilst she trimmed, altered,
or fashioned a bonnet. Finally, one day, intoxi-
cated with drapery, mad in her craving for an
expensive and unattainable boa, she left her home
to become the shameful partner of Henry Joseph,
who satisfied her diseased appetite for drapery.
Mr. Snorks, thereupon, filled with wrath at the
havoc wrought in happy homes by over-indulgence
in fashionable drapery started a campaign as an
“emporium-smasher.’' The windows of several
establishments flaunting their alluring temptations
to vice in the face of women-folk, he broke with an
axe and sent to the gutter the deadly frills, furbe-
lows, laces, gauzes, trimmings, feathers, silks,
satins, shoes and other devices of the Devil. He
was subsequently elected first President of the
Dress Prohibition League, the membership of
which now numbers many thousands, which has
appointed several paid lecturers, and which will
run its own candidates for Parliament at next
election. In its declaration of principles, the
League points out that it is of no use to tinker
with an evil which can be proved by statistics to
have caused three-fourths of the divorce-cases in
the State, which was mainly responsible for 72
per cent, of the embezzlements committed by
men, and of 49 per cent, of the bankruptcies.
Regulation of the dress traffic was of no use :
female dress would have to be absolutely pro-
hibited, and its manufacture or sale, except for
medical purposes, made a penal offence. This
was the only way of putting an end to a trade
which was filling the gaols and covering the land
with misery and shame. The drapery trade is
organising a strong defence movement, and in a
manifesto to the voters urges the terrible loss that
the national revenue would suffer if all drapery
importations were to cease, and the unreasonable-
ness of prohibiting all women from dressing
because a small section abused the use of that
drapery which to the majority was a source of
reasonable comfort and innocent enjoyment. The
“Drapery Issue ” is likely to have a very material
effect on the results of the next general elections.
♦
The recent remark of a U.S. statesmen that it is
necessary to build 50 new warships so that Uncle
Sam will be ready for the inevitable war with
Germany, suggests a multitude of things. The
U.S. is getting tangled in so many foreign com
plications that it must needs build or buy a big
navy very soon, and when the present ill-feeling
against Germany is past the navy will still be
there and all ready to whip somebody. And the
possession of a navy brings with it the desire to
whip somebody. The Nineteenth Century was a
busy time ; the Twentieth is likely to be quite as
busy. The Nineteenth Century saw France rise
to be the greatest military power in the world and
fall again. It saw Britain rise to be by
far the greatest manufacturing power in the
world, and fall back again. It saw the rise of
three empires—Russia, Germany and Japan—
which Western Europe hardly regarded as a row
of pins in the year 1800. It saw the making of
Italy, and the formation of 16 American republics,
and the beginning and end (if it is really the end)
of two African republics. That was a good deal
for one century. Now, if the United States starts
to build a really dangerous fleet it means that
there is another bull in the ring—and the bulls
that were there before were enough to make a
very considerable commotion without further
assistance.
♦
One recent day both the Sydney morning papers
broke out bitterly in their leading columns (on the
occasion of the appointment of a board to select
and recommend to Parliament a Federal Capital
site) about the fact that one whole session of the
Australian Parliament had passed without a
capital being chosen. George Reid denounces
the Australian Government on the same ground
in every speech he makes; so do all his following
of hangers on, dry dogs and political pimps. The
Australian Star is sore about it, and the Evun’
Noose is full of bitterness. Yet, by the same
process of reasoning, what an unspeakable gang of
imbeciles must be these same N.S.W. papers
and politicians, seeing that they tried,
jointly and severally, for thirty years to
decide where to build the new Sydney railway
station, and ended by leaving it in the old
out-of-the-way corner ! Reid himself pondered
over the question during the five years of his
Premiership, and didn’t even decide to leave the
station where it was—he decided nothing. The
Americans are supposed to be a tolerably swift
race, but it took them ten years from the close of
the War of Independence to decide where to put
their capital. It took them seven years even to
constitute a Federal Supreme Court, another
matter which the Australian Government i'r
greatly blamed for not fixing up in the first 18
months of its existence. The Australian Govern-
ment has been, on the whole, ten times as prompt
and business-like as any N.S.W. State Govern-
ment ever was ; the complaint levelled against it
by the incapable and sluggish N.S.W. State
politicians is that it should have been 50 times as
rapid as they ever were themselves.


THE LARGEST AND BEST IN THE WORLD I
The Mutual Life Insurance Co. of New York
NET FUNDS, January 1, 1902, £71,975,776.
Principal Agency in Australasia; Company’s Building, Martin Place sL
z. 0. RENNIE, General Manager. ’ ®y ane y-
SAWMILL MACHINERY.
Single and Double Cutting BAND MILLS for
hardwood logs, CIRCULAR SAW MILLS, Com-
plete Outfits of any capacity. Band Resaws,
Engines and Boilers.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Lyceum . “ Breaking of the Drought.’’
Royal “ The Fortune Teller.”
Criterion “Cinderella.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Palace “Paul Jones.”
Centenary Hall, York-st Jubilee Singers.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Pn, J “ A Country Mouse.” and
i r ncess s -|i i. A Pantomime Rehearsal
Her Majesty’s “ Dick Whittington.”
Theatre Royal “ When London Sleeps.”
Opera House Rickard’s Vaudeville Co.
Athen®u.m Hall British Biograph.
♦
“ Paul Jones,” as revived at Sydney
Palace by the Royal Comic Opera Co., is the best
performance of that attractive musical trifle
within the memory of most theatre-goers. Miss
Florence Young, in the name part, is something
more than successful—her fresh, vigorous but
somewhat hard voice fitting the masculine char-
acter to perfection, while her stature —not calling
for anything more in height or anything less in
breadth —is equally well suited to the idea of
Paul. George Lauri, as Bouillabaisse, is quietly
humorous when that is called for, broadly far-
cical when that is legitimate, and very much
more effective always than in some of those
Jv'.rts where, the author not having provided the
nuX'or, the comedian has been compelled to try to
be funny on his own account. Miss Maud
Chetwynd, in the soubrette part of Chopinette, is
dainty and charming. In those three respects the
production is excellent, and there is no failure in
other points. Miss Carrie Moore, Miss Ghiloni
and Messrs. Lear (a most humorous “ Insect ”),
Bathurst and Ward come up to all reasonable
expectations. The ballets, too, are more than
ordinarily attractive.
* » * *
“ Paul Jones ” is of the old-fashioned type
of comic opera, and relies to a great extent on its
melody. There is some genuine comedy-—a good
deal of it, in fact —but in that respect it is not to
be compared with the Gilbert and Sullivan series,
or with such operas as “Mascotte,” “Nitouche,”
or “ Tiie Rose of Persia.” An ideal representa-
tion of it would not take liberties with the music
or seek by too much “gagging” to add to the
humor. And on these points the Palace repre-
sentation is open to criticism. Full scope is not
always given to the charm of the music, and there
are some silly and anachronistic interpellations
about “the hatters,” and so on, which might very
well be dispensed with ; they are foolish without
being funny. George Lauri has ample chance of
showing originality and capacity for broad
comedy as the King of the Mosquito Coast in the
third act; and he takes full advantage thereof.
It is a pity that he should seek to “pad out” his
lines in other acts with what is at once unneces-
sary and absurd. But, apart from all drawbacks,
this revival of “Paul Jones” is strikingly suc-
cessful.
** # »
Next Saturday, when the dozen Thieves
have ceased from thieving at Sydney Royal, the
“Fortune Teller” will be staged at "that popular
establishment. The advertisement describes it as
a comic opera, not a musical comedy, which is a
glad thing to hear. In these bald and autumnal
days of the musical comedy, when it has lost any
sense it ever possessed, and its hairless front
gibbers at the public across the footlights, and its
shoulders are weighed down by the airy joke that
runstoabouthalf-a-ton, thesaid musical comedy has
become a very sprry thing. Its jokes, when it has
any, suggest Old Dad Kruger trying to cast him-
self lightly into the air and let loose his
animal spirits, and its airy witticism ought
to be lifted with a steam crane. A genuine
comic opera, if the “ Fortune Teller ” is one, will
be a pleasant relief, and theadvt. takes its immor-
tal oath that the “F.T.” is the real article.
Madame Slapoffski and Lempriere Pringle are to
be in the east, and present writer loves Madame
Slap in her stage capacity. A “brilliant, cohesive
story' 1 is promised, likewise “beautiful, melo-
dious music,” and Hungarian gipsy airs, and
when all these things are added up, and Madame
Slap is included, the outlook seems promising.
#* * *
“The Drought” breaks nightly at the
Lyceum, and Sydney, viewed from a high-
class immoral standpoint, continues to make
a favorable impression. Adventuress Harrie
Ireland’s . retje.aio.is on the fact that she
will one day be old, and that her life
of sin will not prevent her from becoming
weary and rheumatic and undesirable, might be
more logically left out, because virtuous people
are equally liable to all these drawbacks ; and very
often become a great deal more rheumatic
than the bad people, because gaol is a dry
place, whatever its disadvantages. Even the
best aged ladijs often get neglected, and
don’t receive invitations to champagne suppers
and similar sprees. They can’t even remember
the sprees they used to have, which is a rather
serious argument against steady conduct. If a
good heroine cursed her virtue because it wouldn’t
prevent her growing old and requiring hair-dye
the clergy would probably rise in revolt ; but it
would be ju-st as sensible as H; irrie Ireland’s
remarks.
** * *
Sheridan’s pantomime shines in its usual
brightly imbecile manner at Sydney Criterion,
and, 'by strange mesmeric means, lias captured
the affections of numerous sane citizens. There
are no great spots of brightness in “Cinderella,”
but, on the other hand, there is nothing especially
sad. It is an affable piece of foolishness, but
would ba better if the glittering show slipper that
is carried round in Act I. were not quite so unlike
the veiy ordinary white one that Cinderella dons
later on. It is probibly too early in the year to
urge S leridan to find some newer story on which
to build next year’s panto., yet it might as well
be done now as any other time. A very good
panto., by the way, might be built round George
Washington, especially if the cherry-tree that he
cut down with his little axe in boyhood fell on
George 111.
** # #
In a few days the Fisk Singers will cease
their murky melody at Sydney Centenary Hall
and take th3ir quaint, lilting hymn tunes to other
parts. When they are gone The Bulletin intends
to catch itself, and bail itself up in a corner, and
ask itself firmly to formulate a theory as to why a
hymn sung by a “cullud pusson ” often has a
charm about it that no hymn sung by a white
person ever possesses. Possibly it is that
the Fisk Singer and his kind sing the hymns
as if they really believed the sentiments con-
veyed therein, while the white person sings
them as if he were trying to get some value for
the 3d. he put in the dish. Possibly it is because
our religion came from a brown man’s land, and is
a brown man’s creed which only a brown citizen
really understands. Anyhow, a citizen who is
strenuous for a White Australia can go and hear
the despised nigger sing a very crude hymn that the
hearer doesn’t care 2d. about, and yet not regret
the shilling he paid for the privilege—which is
curious.
** * #
A bright and varied programme at Sydney
Tivoli is now provided by the Schenk Bros.,
Miss Gracie Emmet’s co., Mr. Fred Poplar
(character comedian), Miss Kitty Wager (seu-
brette)—the last two reappearing after several
years’ absence, the Le Monts with their perform-
ing dogs, and Miss Jennie Opie, whose popu-
larity as a ballad singer has lasted through a very
long season at this theatre. There are some
absent items, on the retiring of which the manage-
ment is to be congratulated —that of the man with
the sodden soda-water joke in particular.
** * *
Three of the Melbourne theatres continue
to present their Xmas bills, but one of them—the
Royal—will make a change on Saturday. “The
Power and the Glory ” must now pass away, in
the blessed hope of a joyful resurrection next year,
or later. Melbourne could have better spared a
less gibberingly lunatic melodrama. “ The P. and
G.” goes in for “situations” and gets ’em as it
pleases, leaving nothing to be desired at the finish
except the news that a huge mass of transformation
scene has fallen on the pair of funny men and
crushed them into sausages for the clown.
Nothing else suggests itself in the way of de-
cided improvement. The question as to whether
the angel kid in the Eternal Sky ought to sing a
sentimental song and kill the villain with its
little topnote is debateable. Perhaps the
silent effect is more impressive. If the glorified
infant were to warble the latest two-shilling ditty
from Allan’s or Glen’s, the Kingdom of Heaven
would seem like unto an advertisement, and
although it actually is a business ad. for the
church, a lot of people don’t want the fact made
too apparent. “When London Sleeps” is the
next thing that’s going to happen at the Royal.
It has happened before, and is technically known
as the telephone-wire drama.
** * *
At the Princess’s the candid sinfulness of
an elegantly-furnished comedy is doing very well,
all things considered. Miss Nellie Stewart’s
treatment of the name-part in “ A Country
Mouse ” is a little less over-colored than it was.
She has toned it down almost to naturalism in
some places, and probably the picture wouldn't
be more acceptable to the local world at
large if it were modified any further. Other
members of the Musgrove co.—notably Sydney
Stirling, Harcourt Beatty, and Tapping—
have balanced the account by broadening the
humor. It is not a highly polished performance,
but it gets there all the same. The Brough and
Boucicault co. at its best, failed to catch the
popular vote for any guilt-edged comedy of a
highly immoral character, which introduced dukes
and lords, and ignored the existence of a world
outside the uppah circle. The B. and B. touch
was too light—besides, they hadn’t a Nellie
Stewart to draw the multitude. The multitude
comes with a predisposition to catch on to the
humor of “A Country Mouse,” and the humor
sticks out so that the multitude can catch on
easily.
#* * *
On behalf of the panto at Her Majesty’s,
it is only fair and just, likewise generous, to re-
mark that the fitful narrative of “Whittington”
is free from the intrusions of a gnome king, or
other evil spirit. The dark cavern scene, where
gloomy supers take instructions from a depraved
and husky sovereign, has been kindly omitted.
In fact, “Dick Whittington ” is rather
more commendable on account of the things
which don’t occur than for anything else
that can be remembered at time of writing.
All the same, the attendance maintains a good
payable average each week, and the house last
Saturday night seemed to be expressing gratitude
for the gnomes’ absence in a heartfelt manner.
There are matinees on Wedneslays and Saturdays,
when children, at half-price, bring their parents
and guardians, at whole price, to hear them laugh.
The spectacle of two parents and an aunt urging
a cynical Australian boy to commit boisterous
merriment is pathetic in the extreme.
** * *
Two new people at the Opera House are
Spry and Monti, this lady Spry being a sister of
the small, dry Spry who gazes into vacancy be-
tween Ins verses. The new “turn” is another
Amurkan bar-room sketch, beginning with talk
and ending in dance, and the dancing offers
ample apology for any injuries that the rest of
the sketch may inflict. Little Eileen Boyd and
her comparatively huge voice came into the
proceedings on Saturday, likewise Elsie M’Lach-
lan, the Fiower of Chilblane. She isn’t
given any such title on the programme, but her
braw Scawttish name suggests that she must be the
flower of somewhere. G. W. Hunter, the Racon-
teur (Anglais, not to say “de Londres ”) stands on
a friendly footing with his audience, whilst the
Harbecks continue to improve on acquaintance
I heir trifling with the hoops is pretty, the lady’s
mild juggling is neat, and she herself 'is both neat
an l pretty. She smiles like a woman whose
Uluuons are not yet all shattered. A beautiful
smile, worth sixpence a time to the soul that
needs a tonic.
** * *
At the Athenaeum Hall, a biograph of pre-
arranged jokelets is supporting Clive O’Harafthe
young Australian Wizard, unless the Wizard has
been engaged to support the biograph. Clive
f J a . b ® tt ? r con J'uror now than when he
nrst started to imitate the deceased Dante He
seems to have every qualification but one for
a career of harmless deception on the public plat-
form. He doesn t know how to talk. ' The young
man says the right thing in the right place-it i!
about the same thing that Dante said-and he
invariably says it in the wrong way, as though he
had no sense of word values. Sounds like a tele-
graph message coming along on the tape.
There is a touch of genuine sentiment m
Melba’s offer to sing three new selections for tne
Armes Beaumont benefit concert. Beaumont
and Mrs. Palmer were the “star ...P erf °™? r p s
many a concert in which Nellie Mitchell-
subsequently Mrs. Armstrong-figured as a minor
consideration in the early 80’s. Melba s manrie
ism of closing her eyes when “carried away,
the artistic sense, by the music is a reminiscence
of those old days, for she caught it from Mrs.
Palmer. To be associated with the leading
Melbourne soprano and tenor was the reaiisa 1011
of her earliest ambition. Beaumont s name on the
programme of her farewell benefit concert was a
compliment to the adventurous Nellie, so ,®
is going to pay it back with interest. Me a
three numbers will include the principal aria from
“ Les Huguenots.” Her young harpist, Signonna
Sassoli is to play a considerable part, and veteran
R. S. Smythe will fittingly appear as general
manager of the event. Melbourne Town Hall on
Jan. 31.
** * *
At Adelaide Royal, Alfred Dampier has
put up “His Natural Life,” himself gathering in
most of the credit as the parson -tippler-hero.
After which “The Power of Wealth. this is
Marie Corelli adapted to the stage, and shows the
moving adventures of a count, a countess, and an
earthquake which makes the recent local quake
seem very feeble. Maggie Moore, back from
Broken Hill, put in a short season at Port
Adelaide. She is now described as “ Australia s
greatest favourite, and the World’s most accom-
plished actress.” Cinquevalli drew crowded
houses at the Tivoli right up to the end, business
being somewhat helped by a local doctor, who
denounced the cannon-ball feat as dangerous.
The juggler replied that he could throw up an egg
and catch it on a plate without damage ; and he
did so. This was generally accepted as a
satisfactory answer! He has invented a new
trick in Adelaide, turning a man’s waistcoat m-
side-out while being worn, the coat not being
taken off. The Tivoli is now temporarily closed.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Bank of North Queensland concluded
a merely respectable half-year on 31st December, 1902,
though times are not good just now 7 with Queensland]and,
consequently, with Queensland institutions :
Recovered Dividend
from (24 p.c.) Added
Profits. Debts Total and to Re- Re-
previously Reve- Divi- serves, serves,
written nue. dend
off. Tax.
June, 1898 £587 £587 £587 £587
Dec., 1898 1479 1479 1479 2,066
June, 1899 1675 £BBl 2556 2556 4 622
Dec., 1899 2700 2700 £1313 1387 6,009
June, 1900 2557 901 3458 1313 2145 8,154
Dec., 1900 2368 1540 3908 1313 2595 10,749
June, 1901 2424 2424 1313 1111 11,860
Dec., 1901 2536 2536 1313 1223 13,083
June, 1902 2038 2038 1313 725 13,808
Dec., 1902 2007 680 2687 1313 1374 15,182
The profits (apart from the £6BO recovered from bad
debts formerly written off) are the smallest since June,
1899, and represent £3 10s. 7d. percent, per annum on the
shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves) with which the
half-year commenced. This isn’t any too good ; in fact
nothing in Queensland is too good just now. Still the
Bank of North Queensland has now the largest reserve
fund in its history (the reserves, just before the suspension
in 1893, were only £4454); and, as the present reserve is
all represented by State securities, there is no doubt of
its reality. Also the addition made to the reserve this
half-year is the largest since December, 1900.
In most respects the Bank of North Queensland
looks solid and prosperous. Deposits (£261,541) show an
increase of over £25,000 as compared with the figures of
six months ago. Cash and liquid securities (including
£25,750 of Government stock) are £108,559, equal
to 34 per cent, of all liabilities to the public. Some
years ago the Bank of North Queensland conceived the
idea of issuing long-dated 44 per cent, debentures,
but the fall in the money rendered the experi-
ment less profitable than wets anticipated, and during the
half-year just closed the last of the debentures have been
repurchased and extinguished. The chief drawback of the
B.N.Q. is that it is a very small institution, and a small
institution can never be managed quite so economically
as a large one. And this isn’t a good time for raising
the money to turn a small institution into a large one.
One consolation for the shareholders is that small bank-
ing institutions have often proved, in Australia, very
much safer than large ones. ’ J
* • » •
During 1902 it is reckoned that the borrowings
in Australia of the seven Australasian States, the cities of
Sydney and Melbourne, and the Vic. State Land Bank
totalled £5,449,000. When Australia can put up that
amount in a bad year there is surely no real need of
foreign borrowing. If this country would only recover
its sanity, £5,449,000 is a great deal more than it would
want to borrow in any one year. In the last three years
about £16,030,000 of loans have been floated locally so
Australia can lend its own Governments
£0, 000,000 a year as a pretty regular thing.
* * • •
The Royal Bank of Queensland :
~ Added
Profits. Dividend and to Re-
D.n ifion ncrr, - 01 Div. Tax. Reserves, serves.
Dec., 1896 £6515 24 per cent. = £4922 £1593 971
June, 1897 7463 2* „ = 6414 g 049 38 320
v, -1 19,483 ca P‘ tal forfeited and written off)
Dec., 189/ /440 24 per cent. = 5075 2365 ’ 40,685
June,lB9B 74601 tk ... » = 50751
_ l Written off 3000 f 40,070
Dec , 1898 7579 24 per cent. = 5075 2504 42 574
June, 1899 7830 24 „ 5075 2755 45329
(61463 capital forfeited and written off) ’
Dec., 1899 8322 24 per cent. = 5056 3266 48 595
June,l9oo 8384{£f... » _ = 5056) ’
_ l W ntten off 35)0 I ~ 48,423
Dec., 1900 8434 24 per cent. = 5056 3378 61 sm
June,l9ol 8657 2* „ = 6056 3«m
fOid. 3 p.c. 1 \ 3601 55 ’ 402
Dec., 1901 8758 { Pref. 3} „ }= 6080 l nan
\ Written off' 3000 J 65,080
June,l9o2 9024 { J^ 7 U 6700 2324 57,404
Dec.,1902 S346{^ f JP-C.j = V 223
The earnings represent £3 Bs. lOd. oer cent „„
th n eh h alf S y h e a a r r eho^erS ’ fUndS * S at the
The profits for the half-year just closed are Hia
out of consideration, for at least seven years The raid n!
capital is now £456,927, but a reallv snrnri a i^ P - p
srssv 2 S'sfe ss r 3«:
principal figures oompare with those of a year ago as
follows: December December
1901. 1 902 - Increase.
Reserves .. .. £65,080 .. £58,827 .. £3,747
Premises, etc. .. 62,006 .. Decrease.
* years’ Profits .. 8,768 .. 8,646 112
Bills Payable .. 9,090 .. 7,4/8 1,01,2
C S^u a Htles Li held . 309,084 .. 298,821 10,263
Securities neia . 616 .. 978,066 48,650
Deposits :: " ’877,422 .. 774,938 102,484
The reserve of cash and liquid securities (including
£59 918 of Government Stock) is £298,821 which is equal
to 37 per cent, of all liabilities to the public-a very solid
foundation indeed. But in a general way the figures in
the balance-sheet are an evidence of very bad times in
Queensland. , * •
“W H ” (Limbri, or something like that): (1)
Don’t care for the co. (2) If you are persuaded to take
shares by misrepresentation you may get free from your
liability by a legal action (at great expense) against the
promoters ; more likely you will lose and have to pay the
calls and the law expenses. Misrepresentation is a,
difficult thing to prove if the man who sold you the cat
knew the cat-vending business at all welL
• • • •
Concerning the 15 surviving Fire Insurance
Companies of Australasia (there are nominally 16, but
the 16th reallv belongs to an English company, though
outwardly preserving its separate local existence), some
more or less interesting particulars are appended. The
profits in each case represent the amount earned for the
12 months covered bv last published balance-sheet, after
deduction of all bonuses paid or payable to policy-holders.
In many eases the dividends on the capital originally paid
up are enormouslv larger than the amounts here shown,
and the accumulated reserves are larger also, but by the
transfer of a large part of the reserves to capital account
both they and the dividend have been made to look less
imposing :
New South Wales.
_ tv -j Added to Re-
Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
Mercantile 184 p.c. =£5,543 £2,143 £49,845
Mutual J
Australian ) 13 728 16 i g j22 4 ’ 5,504 111,533
Mutual J
United ..23,102 10 „ „ 6,823 16,279 106,310
North l n 6 29 8 „ „ 4,295 7,334 45,564
Queensland J ’
Victoria.
Victoria .. 23,923 27 p.c. = 13,481 10,442 69,088
Victoria 1 4301 2 0 „ „ 4,000 301 12,280
General J
Australian 1 13 593 16 12, 500 1,047 96,278
Alhance(a)/ ’
Colonial 1 25 959 g „ „ 5,000 20,059 58,596
Mutual J
Maoriland.
} 44,896 25 P- c - = 16 - 157 28 > 739 27^.817
Zealand (6)} 65,119 13 * " » 27,500 13,682 295,167
National ..32,436 12J „ ~12,500 19,936 163,124
Standard ..11,013 10 „ „ 7,500 3,513 50,206
Farmers’ 1 4 539 6 2 ,974 1,565 11,527
Tasmania.
D and Tamar} 8,909 10 P c = 5,250 3,659 64,117
Mutual Fire. 4,541 7 „ „ 2,756 1,785 24,108
(а) Australian Alliance Co. wrote off £46.
(б) New Zealand Insurance Co. wrote off £13,937.
(c) Profits of Farmers’ Co-Operative Co. and amount
absorbed by the 6 per cent, dividend are approximate
only, the balance-sheet being so clumsily drawn up
that it is impossible to separate dividend from policy-
holders’ bonus.
Some curious facts stick out in this table. The
co. with the largest reserve is the New Zealand Insurance
Co. (Maoriland); second largest reserve, South British
Co. (Maoriland) ; third largest, National Co. (Maoriland).
Largest profits are those of the New Zealand Co. ; with
the South British second ; and the National third- same
three. Largest sum paid in dividend is that paid by the
New Zealand Co., with the South British again second ;
but this time the Victoria (Melbourne) comes third.
Highest rate of dividend is the 27 percent, of the Victoria
(Melbourne), with the South British second, and
the Victoria General (Melbourne) third. (For wast ng
splendid business opportunities in the craze for
big dividends the Melbourne crowd is generally
well up on the front seats). For the biggest addition
made to the reserves out of the year’s earnings the South
British Co. (Maoriland) is first, Colonial Mutual (Mel-
bourne) second, National (Maoriland) third. The two
smallest additions to reserves are those of the Victoria
General (Melbourne) and Australian Alliance (Melbourne).
Maoriland, though it has less than 800,000 population, as
against Victoria’s 1,200,000 and N.S.W.’s 1,360,000, sup-
ports five fire insurance offices, while the two laige
States only own four each. Queensland, S.A., and YY’es-
tralia, with over 1,000,000 people among them, don’t
possess one fire insurance office ; yet little Tasmania, with
far less than 200,000 people, possesses two prosperous in-
stitutions. But the Commonwealth generally is very
much behind in the way' of running its own fire insurance
business. Protection, and a very strong measure of Pro-
tection, too, for the local fire insurance industry, is
urgently wanted as soon as the Australian Parliament can
attend to the matter.
• • > *
It costs Victoria about £1 ss. per cent, on the
amount of the Old Age Pensions to cover the cost of dis-
tributing the money. In New South Wales it has coat
£3 6s. Bd. per cent., but the figure is being reduced. In
view of the munificent statement of “Brother” Somebody,
Grand Boss Prawn of the M.U.1.0.0.F., that his society
could do the distribution for 5 per cent., and that the
cost to the State was 20 per cent., the above facts are
worth repeating. Private enterprise is always making
wild statements and benevolent offers like that.
• • 9 *
Last year s work of 14 Trustee Companies,
according to the balance-sheets published in 1902
Melbourne.
Added Total
Profit. Dividends. to Re- Ke-
National .. ..£2407 8 p.c. =£2400 £23J»4
Equity (a) .. 4660 7| „ „ 1937 2528 8,266
Trustees E. & A... 5219 5 ~ „ 4500 719 9,577
Union .. 2886 4 ~ ~ 2953 1,835
Perpetual (6) .. 1864 24 „ „ 750 738 9,702
Ballarat.
Ballarat .. .. 3000 10 ~ „ 1500 1500 3,229
Bendigo.
Sandhurst.. .. 2365 54 „ ~ JlOO 1265 3,772
Sydney.
Perpetual (c) .. 5021 8 ~ „ 2000 2753 21,920
Permanent .. 2302 6 ~ „ 1500 802 5,634
Brisbane.
Queensland .. 4170 8,, „ 2121 2049 4,613
Hobart.
Perpetual (d) .. 2107 8,, „ 840 1012 5,502
Launceston.
Tas. Permanent .. 1091 6 ~ „ 630 461 2,281
Adelaide.
Executor T.& A. (e) 1833„ 5 ~ „ 767 376 3,187
Dunedin (M.L.).
Perpetual.. .. 1799 124 „ „ 1016 783 3,425
(a) Equity Trustees, Executors and Agency 00. (Mel-
bourne) applied £195 as bonus to staff.
(b) Perpetual Executors and Trustees’ Association
(Melbourne) wrote off £376.
(c) Perpetual Trustee Co. (Sydney) wrote off £268.
(d) Perpetual Trustees, Executor and Agency Co.
(Hobart) wrote off £255.
(e) Executor, Trustee and Agencv Co. (Adelaide) wrote
£690 off leasehold property.
The Trustee Co. with the largest earnings is the
Trustees, Executors and Agency Co. (Melbourne); the
Perpetual (Sydney) being second, and the Equity (Mel-
bourne) third. The co. whose earnings show the largest
percentage on capital is the Perpetual of Dunedin, with the


5#
ar»s
TRAMWAYS FOR MINES.
e-i-z-jf'uc; i n SYDNEY and MELBOURNE include—Steel Rails, Bridge Rails,
Steel Side and End Tip Trucks, Portable Tramway, Portable and Permanent
flwitphpq Rall-bearimr Turntables, Axle Boxes, Wheels and Axles, Jim Crows,
Dog Spikes etc., etc INDENTS -LOCOMOTIVES from 10 to 400 h.p
including Compound Locos, and every description of Light Railway Material.
CENTRAL MINING &. TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Prop Ltd. ,40 Hunter St., SYDNEY. A. E L E PL/ 3 TRIER, Manager,
Representing Orenstein and Kopfil, Ltd., London, Berlin and Pans.
Branches
•Melbourne, Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania).
. Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-streeb, Melbourne
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “Option."
Melbourne.*
* * « «
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-street, Melbourne,
having returned from his visit to England, is now pre-
pared to purchase approved Mines and Mining Properties
situated in any part of Australasia requiring Capital for
Development and Machinery. Only genuine and
legitimate ventures, capable of bearing the strictest
examinations, will be entertained.*
* * * *
A revolution in smelting furnaces seems pro-
oable. Ihe aid of gasoline has not been recognised.
Ernest de Beer, 439 Bonrke-street. Melbourne, supplies
forms to suit assay era, which are marvellous in their
efficiency.*
» * * ,
Complaints of stagnation in the engineering
trade are as rife as ever, but, judging by the large stock
of Refrigerating and Ice-making machinery now at the
engineering works of Mephan Ferguson, Melbourne, he
must expect to do a large business in these machines
during the coming summer season. The prices for all
sjzes have been greatly reduced, and purchasers are
invited to inspect and test these Refrigerators before
'purchasing. This firm has also introduced up-to-date
machinery for manufacturing bolts and nuts, rivets, do (r
spikes and every discription of ironwork.*
* * ♦ *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S. W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * » *
The New Zealand Fire and Marine Insurance
Co., whose head-office for N.S.VV. is at No. 81 Pitt-street,
Sidney, is the largest colonial Fire and Marine Insurance
company', and a large amount of their reserves of
£494,910 is invested in the States. Lowest rates and
prompt.settlements. *
s: . *
1 Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
all Mining and Assay Chemicals and Apparatus, Micro-
scopes and accessories can be obtained of Felton, Grim-
wade and Co., Melbourne. 4th edition, enlarged (red
cover) of illustrated catalogue of all mining requisites
now ready. Price Is. 6d., post free.*
* * * *
The Insurance World, London, writes of the
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society's latest report :
“ In every way the report demonstrates a position of
great prosperity and we can safely predict under the
existing policy of enterprise, economy, careful selection
of risks and attractive schemes of life assurance a future
of enchaneed greatness and usefulness.”*
* * • *
Tho Westport N.Z. Harbor Trust lately
arranged with the Austral Otis Company of South
Melbourne to convert one of their Steam Hopper Barges
into a Suction Dredge. This has now been satisfactorily
completed. The Otis Company fitted one of their
Centrifugal Sand Pumps with driving engine on the deck
of the barge with suitable winches to work the suction
pipe and drag. The plant has now been at work for
some weeks and at a late trial by the Board’s Engineers
waq foundto be raising over 180 tons of sand and gravel
per hour and worked equally well in the heavy swell on
the bar or in the river. The result has given the Harbor
Boqrd the utmost satisfaction. The Sand Pump used is
of similar type to that employed in alluvial Gold and Tin
mi Ring, with which the Austral Otis Company has been
long identified.*
INSIST OH CETTIMGS
'sToeet-3lice9A\ango,
GHEENA\ANCO,CASHMERE.
_ v „ >c.V° # MADRAS* , •
All Grocery andsrorekeeper£Lverywl]eTe.
SCHWEPPES MALVERN SPA
By Special Appoint-
ment to His Majesty
King Edward VII.
Bottled at Celebrated Malvern Springs, England.
tWrtrtheNflSSl P th P ? tUal ° f Hobart
the Perpetual (Sydney)^ t,u^TV eSeTVe ’
Melbourne) third. The P* StariVlKn Perpetual
largest dividend, with the BalKrat TW" edln) pa > 3 the
Perpetual (Sydney) tnade the largest Th *
serves during 1902, with thp Fnnit-wvrii, ton to lts re '
and the Queensland TrustelsS"
pames in the list, and four of iwl .i i l4 com '
“ Perpetual," while two are “Permanent*" £, hen J se i": 9
might be varied a little ! The ‘‘EternalTLi Sui !? ly tbls
IninKirtal Trustees - .re A gSZg&ft**.
“,W. Tn “ l «> Companies is alto.
the southern State has two trustee co ' an?™ d ,2?J
outside the metropolis NSW u OCJ \ - or ? e bank
WsasSSS?
insurance co. and trustee co for its owndistric? ’f™
mania, with a bank, trustee oo and ine *
Launceston, also escapes the centralising tendency C °’ at
The second examination for mine managers
under the N S.W. Act, was held latelyT and as Tthi
first exam., hardly a candidate was stumped. Still that
isn t very wonderfu!. Though half-a-dozen papers are
set a candidate passes if he scores 60 per centf of the
aggregate ; so he may be densely ignorant of some
tranches of the knowledge that a manager should have
and yet be hall-marked as competent. Slloula nave >
B.H. mines’ butchery bill showed a solid im-
provement last year : 1900, 25 fatalities ; 1901, 26 ; 1902 12
The only explanation available is that, hands having to
tained d ’ * exp erienced were naturally re-
*
. P p r °P-> whose half-yearly meeting will be
h wn- ab^ fc a ,w eek will most likely declare a
shilling div. .the profits will easily cover this. The co
has lately cut large sires off costs. In the six months
i o^ d Je St M , ay the 9nie ' t l e , rs ran 1»,660 tons lead and
I, silver—a monthly average of 3277 tons lead
and 325 8590 z. silver The balance of the total output
f bl ° b ,or t. ha t half-year averaged 5381.) tons lead and
425,6950 z. tl.ver per month, had to be sold unsmelted.
Now, through the new desulphurising process and the
""im? 0f ? llmes ’ t u e co -> with 7 smelters instead of 13
and 200 less furnace-hands, is treating the whole of its
ore-output ; and the run in the last four weeks of Dec
was 357,4010 z. silver and 4856 tons lead.
* » * *
Broken Hill: Stirred up by the B.H. Prop’s
activity in developing a chemical process of zinc ex-
traction, the Aust. Metal Co., which works in conjunction
with German zinc and lead producers, will at once start
its new magnetic plant. Magnetic plants have been
running on ’Murkan sulphide fields for some time ; lately
in addition, a zinc smelting plant has been put up at
1 i e 1) 1 o to handle the zinc concentrates, so apparently
these magnetic plants are doing all -
Tenders are being called for Block 10 new mill
The work should be pushed on ; surface cracks
show that the underground movements which threaten
the old mill are still slowly proceeding. Of
broken Hill stocks, nothing slumped last vear like Block
11, which opened at Bs. 2d. and closed at 3s. Id. ; though
Sulphides, which went from 9s. lOd. to 4s. ran
them close. Some others : B.H. Prop., from 365. to 27s
6,1. ; Block 10, 335. to 255. ; British (old), Bs. to ss. 9d. •
Junction, Is. 7d. to 2s. 2d.; North, 9s. 3d. to 7s. 8d •
South (paid), 19s. 6d. to 20s. ; South (con.), 13s. 3d. to’
11s. ; Junction North, lOd. to Is. The improved position
of Junction shares is well justified. Though probably
still unpayable, a very fine body of ore has been
well opened prospects of the Car-
michael-Bradford desulphurising process, which is now
owned by a co., are not dazzling. The success of the
Huntington-Heberlein rival process, adopted by the B.H.
Prop., is a disappointment; and the mission of F. 11.
Snow in Europe and America was not wholly successful.
Still, there is said to be an opening for the process in
Germany, where negotiations are still proceeding.
Apropos the Ashcroft invention for recovering zinc by
electrioity, which the Sulphide Corporation was formed
to work : Ashcroft is still experimenting on a large scale
in England ; John Swinburne, one of the best-known of
English electricians, is now his partner—of course, he
went out of the Sulphide Corporation long ago. The
B.H. mines ate up Hi in llion feet of timber in 1902. as
against 13J million feet in 1901.
• * • •
A satisfactory feature of the opening of 1903 at
Br iken Hill is the appearance of new European ore-
buyers.
« • • •
The Tucker’s Hill field, near Hargraves
(N.S.W.), is being boomed for more than it is worth by
the Sydney press. There are the usual exaggerations
and stories about powerful Sydney syndicates—alway s
1 oiverful in gas —which have acquired claims, and are
going to “ develop them systematically.” Hogan's claim
is said to be the best on the field at present, and a recent
report respecting it illustrates the extent to which things
are magnified. “The reef is from 18in. to 2ft. wide at
the 200 ft. level, and worth from 4 to soz. per ton, accord-
ing to the hulk crushing.” Same report says that at
200 ft, “the reef has been driven on for 300 ft., and the
stone taken out in driving yielded £lOOO worth of gold.”
A section of lode, 300 ft. x 6ft. x 18in., would produce
180 tons of quartz. This section has produced the £lOOO
worth of gold, or less than £6 per ton, yet the report
states, “ according to the bulk crushing, the value is 4 to
50z.” Of such is the average of “our own correspondent.”
* • * *
The huge grain-shed erected at Darling Harbor
(Sydney) to shelter the State’s surplus wheat while
awaiting the arrival of Vessels, is now coming in handy as
a store for importations of bread-stuffs.
• • • *
Australian mining cos.’ dividends
1901. 1902.
West Australia .. .. £1,093,000 .. £1,538,000
Queensland .. .. .. 769,000 .. 895,000
victoria .. •• 480,000 .. 482,000
Maoriland .. - - - • 348,000 .. 430,0( 0
N.S. Wales 368,000 .. 255,000
Tasmania .. .. .. 270,000 .. 206,000
S. Australia 16,000 .. Nil.
£3,344,000 .. £3,806,000
The Queensland amount for 1902 includes the 2s. 6d. div.
declared by Mt. Morgan concurrently with the call, 2s.
6d., made with the object of having all the capital called
up ; allowing for this, there is a difference of £lOOO only
in the divs. for the two years. N.S.W. suffers through
the lessened divs. from Broken Hill mines; included in
its figures are £124,000 from coal mines and £117,000
from silver; gold, and other mines being repre-
sented by the paltry sum of £14,000. It has to be
borne in mind, however, that many of the large profit-
earning mines do not appear in the div. list Great
Cohar, Nymagee, Mitchell’s Creek, and Neeld’s (Wyalong),
for example. Tasmania’s figures for 1902 are affected by
the reduced divs. of Mt. Lyell, resulting from the
big fall in the value of copper. For divs. from
gold mines alone W. A. easily beats all the other States
combined, and is likely to repeat the performance in
1893, notwithstanding that Queensland may reach the
seven figures. The statement generally is eminently
satisfactory. It indicates that the mining industry is in
a sound condition. The total output of minerals in 1902
was nearly equal in value to the year’s production of both
wheat and wool. But the importance of mining as a
factor in the circulation of money is not to be gauged by
comparative sets of figures. In a good season the value
minerals t wou d far exceed-that of metals and
hands at’a tinl , meanS ° P rovidin S work for willing
sperif v the me t ?l 7F’ ° f P rolnotil W general pros-
spemy, is far superior to the fleece.
Th , e recorded, gold returns from
v.A. for December include 13 over IOOOoz viz Per
16 V l3oo n , Ce ’ r’ 6 m t 0n f f; 17 > 2470 - ; Horseshoe,' 11*, 165 tons
tons 3 °ilVao^ U . 93 S° J? ns - 14 ,62f0z. : Ivanhoe, 12,039
North 2349 f° ns > 12,806°z. ; Associated
663807 - 10 ', 5330z ' : L.V. Consols, 6471 tons,
5080 ton’» S V?x-«l n a ’ 77 ?. 8 tons - 5 - 5990 - > Associated,
™ i ; Cosmopohtan, 5776 tons, 45460zKal-
IM,», Sf£„i, 18 “
19 ? 2 , gold yi eI d, amounting to
the 50’s~ wh’erf greate . r t,lan any Victorian record since
“ maximum of 3,053,7440 z. was reached,
no top-notch was 818,7510 z. in ’52. Only the
U.s. and the Transvaal head Westralia now. *
at^eD S t°h Ciat SmJ^ ,A / )shoWBsign3 of improvement
drivedio’iOfi P pv S |° f °?/t, re now ooming from the north
month r>!^ 50f f’J eNe .l a llj the mine is producing IOOOoz. a
lfc . did three months ago. Were the
which Bhould d W Wlt n ltS ridiculou9 treatment-plant,
would £ * ago , h . ave gone to the scrap heap, shares
S l thT speculative investment. In addition to
chute on hi nTfr! nUat v!° n ¥ the rich Oroya-Brown-Hill
the lfttle s K. er ? boundary, a diamond drill bore in
through tin ° f tl ? e oe " tral Boulder has passed
dentl^nf a 7ft. lode, assaying 3oz. 12dwt. per ton, at a
flll f 5 °f. 15 °0ft. on mine 3 southern boundary The
considerable Me rt°n’s for Ropp furnaces may effect
consuierable reduction in costs and increase the per-
the wlyof div d s. SaVed ’ bUt ° an hardly P roduce much in
* * * *
Brown Hill Extended (W.A.) will come into
Hannpn-p cn 0 d p uw UCe u from this out - Co. has hired
nlvvai 8 ®tar mill for three months with option of re-
«vl ' and Wlll treat about 1800 tons monthly. Expected
aMpafr 6 ’ “JiTi 3i ° Z ’ Per ton ’ 80 that co "'>ll, for a time
outnfif ’ add abo “ c 6000 oz. monthly to the State’s gold
nf Oroya-Brown Hill lode crosses the n.-w corner
of this eo. s ground, and it is stone from this rich chute
chute - re^ ed - , 11 was the discovery of this
flv ,^ e , a tyXht. level in May, 99, which jumped the shares
Estimated that co.’s portion of the chute
carries 40,0000 z. gold. Speculators who may be tempted
buy on the monthly yield will be sorry for themselves,
as at most it can only last about six months.
* • • •
Queen Margaret (W.A.), new holding, the S.
BQnff S i and ! i? OkS u very well - Drives at the 280 ft. and
380 ft. levels have been extended fully 150 ft., and are still
being pushed ahead. A rise is going up from the lower
level to junction with the winze from the upper, so that a
large block of stone will shortly be read}- for sloping. As
there is a battery on the ground an early crushing may
he looked for, and it is certain that a pay average will be
obtained. On present prospects a substantial rise in co.’s
scrip may be looked for.
• * * »
Oroya-Brown Hill (W.A.) is strong financially,
a ! pap addltlon to a substantial Cash balance, co. holds
45,000 reserve shares, worth at leasto£loo,ooo. (By
the way, it. would be interesting to know what became
of the 16,000 reserve shares of Oroya, arid who got the
profit on their issue). Many blamed Captain Parkes for
not being able to locate the lode at No. 8 level, but
his successor has proved no more successful.
Although the chute has been found at No. 9 level
quite as rich as No. 7, there is no trace of it at
No. 8. The lease of Hannan’s Star mill has expired
but no diminution in output is anticipated l , as Brown Hill
battery has been extended to meet this emergency. As
co. is earning, say, £12,000 a month profits, even with
costs at the extravagant figure of £4, it will be able to
disburse 7s. per share annually. Costs are likely to be
materially reduced, and output more likely to increase
than decrease, as a large amount of ore is blocked out on
fche Oroya s south block, so shares look like good holding.
No reliable information is obtainable as to the state of the
Brown Hill property, but the Oroya’s two blocks are
good enough for anything.
* • • •
Bellevue Consols, Mt. Sir Samuel (W.A.)-
which has worried two managers into their graves owing
to its refractory ore, is losing the copper at depth, and
the ore is becoming much more easy to treat. Develop-
ments are being pushed in order to have plenty ore ready
for the additional 40-head mill now on order. Some
months must elapse ere this mill gets to work, but, on its
completion, the Bellevue will rank as one of the
big producers of the State. At its reconstruction
a year ago the co. was placed on a strong financial
basis with a working-capital of £70,000.
* * • *
Paddington Consols (W. A.), long under a cloud,
will shortly reappear amonggold-producers. By vigorous
development everything is being done to get the battery
going again. Previous manager rooted out everything,
and left no stone in sight, and, as the mine was closed
down for nearly two years, his successor has had a tough
contract. Main shaft now being sunk to 500 ft., and
driving is being pushed at 400 ft. level. Lode at this
depth very wide, and carries a good deal of visible gold.
Co. helplessly weigited down, being amalgamated
with Whittaker Wright’s litter of cats', known as the
Standard Exploration Co.
* » • *
The alleged forgery of 15,000 Great Fingall
(W.A.) scrip by a London official of the co. will have a far-
reaching result on the mining market. The official,
in addition to his connection with the Great Fingall,
acted in a similar capacity for Hannan’s Brown Hill, E.
Murchison United and several other W.A. co s. As fully
20 W.A. mines are controlled by the firm of which he
was a representative, his act will have a very wide
effect. It is exactly years since an Associated official,
together with a stockbroker’s clerk, got three years’ hard
for forging 2510 Associated shares.
* • * •
Out’ook for year 1903, so far as mining in W.A.
is concerned, is extremely promising, and unless some
unforeseen debacle takes place, a continued advance in
output may be expected. A large number of co’s.,
including Hainault, G. Boulder, Bellevue, Oroya-Brown
Hill, Golden Pole, etc., have been extending their plants,
or intend doing so ; and others, such as N. Kalgurli, are
talking of following suit shortly. As to divs. there
should also he a decided advance—such mines as Ivanhoe,
G. Fingall, Oroya-Brown Hill, Ass. Northern, Kalgurli,
are likely to considerably beat their past records. The
bumper year 1899, when L. V. Consols alone distributed
£625,000, is not likely to be reached again in a hurry, if
ever. A good start has already been made with the kal-
gurli’s £30,000 and the Perseverance’s £87,500.
* ♦ • *
“Glenara”: Mt. William (Vic.) goldfield has
gradually dwindled to a very tired township of from 200
to 300 residents. Mines officer Goodenough reckons
that there are yet some 50,0000 z. to be won from the
field. Certainly he does not explain where, when and
how it is to be got ; 25,0000 z. is the estimated yield to
date. But ’tis not to Mt. William that the old miners pin
their faith. The Hopkins Valley, some 20 miles east-
ward, and stretching away from the old Ararat goldfield
—that is their tip for the future Vic. gold-producer.
“ Deep-sinking, bad ground, but gold when you get
there,” say they. ’Twas here the unlucky Lange-Logan
spent many thousands in a futile attempt to reach
bottom after having got splendid bore prospects. Water
and drift (mostly drift) blocked the way. But some day
(say the ancient under-grounders) someone will get below,
and then a great goldfield will be opened up.
The “public spiritedness” of King Lansell of
Bendigo is acclaimed by the local press. Here is a
sample of his patriotic liberality ! He offers a bonus of
i5OO to any man who will treat 100,000 tons of Bendigo
tailings, or £lOO for 10,000 tons and £2OO for 50,000 tons,
taking the larger amount the wonderful inducement
offered to cyamders and others to tackle the mountains
of worthless sand is Is. for 10 tons ! The same offer has
been made twice before, but has elicited no response.
Bendigo tailings are too poor to be dealt with bv any
knownprocess; their value would hardly cover the cost
of handling. Even if they did contain enough gold to
warrant the erection of extensive cyanide works the
difficulty which would then present itself would be as to
the disposal of the refuse.
* * • .
A Bendigo fossicker has been fined £1 for
sweeping a public road. In olden times it was quite
common to see hundreds of men, women and children
wielding rush-brooms on the roads of the district, but
this was the first instance in which anyone was proceeded
against. The town clerk stated that the corporation had
lately been put to considerable expense to repair roads,
the surface of which had been damaged by fossickers
sweeping for gold. This case recalls a noted event in the
early 60s. The Council called for tenders for cutting
down a, certain road. The estimated value of the job
was about £5OO, and a large number of tenders
were sent in at about that amount, but there was
one tenderer who offered a premium to be allowed to do
the work. He was a well known mining man. There
was no question as to his sanity. His offer was accepted,
and the secret was out when it was discovered that all
the material which formed the old road was being carted
to an adjacent battery. The contractor knew that the
metal had been taken from a mine-heap, and that it was
highly payable quartz ; further, he knew that the cutting
would go through the cap of a rich lode which had
been worked underneath the road. The result of the
bargain was that the Corporation had the work done for
nothing, and the contractor netted £2OOO.
• • * *
Long Tunnel Extended, Walhalla (Vie.) last
half-year produced £48,000 worth of gold and paid
±■25,000 in divs. Co. has a cash reserve of £5OOO, and
±/000 invested in debentures. Speculators who have
recently invested in the stock on the assumption that
there was to be a repetition of this creditable record
in the current half-year have been rudely shocked by the
sudden intimation that the late average cannot be main-
tained until considerable further development work has
been done. It was never even hinted in any official report
that the rich chute which made the returns so high was
almost exhausted in existing levels. Who is responsible
for the concealment of the information it is impossible to.
say. The incident supplies one answer, out of many, to
the question, now long discussed in Melbourne papers’ as
to why mining speculation is so unpopular. ’
• • • *
A Maoriland syndicate operating a dredge on
Buckland River (Vic.) is reported to be getting splendid
returns—quite equal to anything from M.L. dredges.
The syndicate has an extensive area of land and is now
erecting another dredge of very large capacity. Marks
Bros , who were lucky enough to peg out the rich section
of the Eucumbene River embracing the principal portion
of Kiandra diggings, from which they have won a lot of
gold, hold the adjoining blocks, on which they are now
erecting a dredge.
* • • *
One curious feature of Australian mining is the
neglect of the law to insist upon the covering-up or
fencing in of disused shafts. Scattered right through
Victoria are old holes without safeguards of any kind, and
sometimes partially hidden by overgrowing bushes, down
which holes the most sober of men might plump 100 feet
or so and perish miserably in the water below. At Ring-
wood, a populous Melb. suburb and picnic resort, there
are three deep shafts, only one of which is boarded up,
while one has absolutely no indication in its vicinity
except a small heap of mullock that any digging ever took
place there. There are several houses close by, to the
gambolling juvenile inmates of which these abandoned
holes must be a constant danger. No wonder it is difficult
to pick up a daily paper without meeting with the head-
ing, “ Fall down an abandoned shaft.”
* • * •
The new rush near Tarnagulla (Vie.), which has
been mildly boomed by the press, doesn’t seem to pan
out well, though 5, 10, 20 and 30oz. nuggets appear to be
not uncommon. A man trying his luck at the place
writes : “This rush is, as usual, much over-estimated by
the papers. For ozs. read dwts., divide the weights and
numbers of nuggets by about four, and you may have
something near actual yields. ... I never put in’such a
miserable Xmas Day as the one just past. Breakfast-
bread and fat; dinner—a piece of pudding from a
neighboring camp, and nothing else ; tea—raw corned
beef. A man gave me a piece of beef, and being ravenous,
I ate it just as it came. . . . One man died yesterday
and more will follow, as the water here is awful stuff.”
• * * •
“ Working Miner ” writes from the Etheridge,
N.Q. : Efforts are now being made by cat-artists to float
and boom worthless mines on Etheridge field. Much
Australian and English capital has already been wasted
in this home of felines, and as a result, the district has
for many years been left without outside capital. A
notable feature of the Etheridge is that at, say, 200 ft.,
the reefs change to white buckstone and all trace of gold
is lost. Several reefs have been sunk in for comparatively
long distances without meeting payable stone. At the
Golden Crown about 130 ft. of sinking was done ere the
fatal buck was hit. Nil Desperandum reached 300 ft.
level before striking buck, and 100 ft. was sunk in it with-
out reaching pay ore. Queenslander’s last sink of 130 ft.
was all in buck ; and in the No. 2 level for 600 ft. no pay
ore has been got ; mine has been on tribute for
the last three years. The Big Reef struck buck at
180 ft., and there is no trace of gold left. This mine has
already sickened a strong English co. The International,
owned by Schafford Bros., is just now the only payable
mine on the field, and the only one, so far as I can see,
which can be looked upon as a good property. Writer
was on this mine at time of first crushing, which yielded
9oz. per ton ; value of gold, £36 a ton. Lode well defined,
and varying in size from Ito 5 ft. At Goldsmith’s Creek
several old reefs are now being taken up, chiefly by
corpse-revivers, and will, no doubt, shortly be offered on
the Australian market. But the only hope of salvation
for the Etheridge is a few strong syndicates with plenty
working capital ; and practical managers who will go
down and find out what lies below the buck.
« * • *
The “ plums ” of Gym pie share-market last year
were No. 2 S. Gt. Eastern and South Glanmire and
Monkland. The former was quoted at 455. per share at
the beginning of the year ; it paid 13s. 9d. in divs., and
wound up the year valued at 80s. per share, so that the
man who bought in Jan. and sold in Dec. would have
cleared 48s. per share. South Glanmire was quoted at
235. per share in Jan. ; it paid 265. 6d. in divs. during the
year on the original number of shares, and wound up the
year with shares saleable at 335. (there being two shares
for one, the capital having been doubled), so that a deal
made in Jan. and cleared up in Dec. would have shown a
profit of 695. 6d. per share, equal to 300 per cent.
« ♦ • • ,JV.
The De Beers people last year sold £4,687,194
worth of diamonds, and the profit for the year was
£2,162,709.
* * * *
The negotiations for the purchase of the Tas-
mania gold mine have fallen through. The English
syndicate reduced its proposal to £510,001 in cash and
scrip. Co. promptly refused this absurd offer, and
decid'd to raise £100,009 by debentures to provide a new
pumping plant. The debentures are to be redeemable
in shares, an extra issue of 20,000 having been agreed
upon to provide for this. The mine has had a great
record and will continue for years to be a large
profit-earner. Had it been sold to the Englishmen for
£500,000 the chances are that they would have formed a
company of £1,500,000, that they would have deposed the
practical men who now run the show to such advantage,
and have substituted for them haw-haw youths from
London, with the probable result that the mine would
never again appear in the div. list.
* * * *
One of the chief questions which Chamberlain
will be called on to decide in S’Africa is that of the con-
tnbution of the Rand gold-mines to the cost of the l.Ve
war. The Rand people are in a cleft stick, Hays Ham-
mond, President of the Rand Chamber of Mines, having
reported in ISB9 : “ The amelioration of conditions conse-
quent upon good government will most materially
enhance the value of the properties of the Witwatersrand
district. . . . I would regard the sum of 6s. per ton as a
conservative estimate of the direct and indirect benefits
of good government . . . [this] would result in an increas e
of annual dividends by £4,826,535 based on last year’s
tonnage of ore crushed.” The gold-bugs have their
good government ” now, but object violently to pay a
f° r it > so the existence of that estimate of the
direct gain ” to be won from a change is loudly cursed.
How grimly humorous were Chamberlain to appropriate
all the £4,826,535 a year and allow the polyglot gang who
engineered the war “the blessings of British rule" as
their sole reward.
“ Alceste ” writes: “A futile discussion has
been going on in the Melb. Aroius on “ how to improve
mining.” Shepherding of leases, insecurity of tenure
and the scarcity of new capital from Bullsland are all
put forward to account for the decay of Victorian
mining, in face of the fact that the gold yield
of 1902 was about the same as that for 1901,
and that the dividend list is the longest for some
time past! The cry about the shepherding of leases has
been grilled till it’s black. Very seldom is a lease in a
good district with what we mining men term ‘ fair pros-
pects ’ kept idle. Plenty of duffer leases are shepherded,
some, I admit near good mines, but, as they pay Crown
rent! it does not seem it would help to improve mining
much if these leases wereall suddenly forfeited and thrown
open for the use of Fleming’s followers, or the Opposition
in Vic. Leg. Assembly, or the Victorian Club, or, indeed,
anybody else with nothing to do. And as to security of
tenure ! Not one of the writers gave an example of
where the terms of a Crown lease had been abrogated in
an arbitrary-way by any Vic. Minister of Mines. Nor did
any of them instance the forfeiture of a lease held by a
British co., the British shareholders in which, for the
most part, do not own the freehold of their shops or homes
and simply pay ground rent to a noble landlord on build-
ing leases. The reluctance of Bull to send capital here
for mining is not astonishing. At the King’s Head
Tavern, in Old Jewry, E.Ct, next Reuter’s office, you 11
find mOre men interested in Victorian mining than
in Pall Mall on a Saturday n'ght, and they all have leases
to sell. The pioneers of this mode of ‘introducing
British capital to the Victorian mining industry ’ some
years back did well. But poor o’d Bull is aweary of the
tribe, and will not listen, charm thi y never so wisely.
That s why. The true causes of the present passing
dullness on the Stock Exchange, and consequently in the
faraway habitats of the wild-cat, are two. one' is that
while metals keep low many small progress ve mines, and
more developed mines in the producing, but not in the
payable stage, are shut down, because holders won’t pay
calls when the market won’t work the shares up and down.
The other reason is that the public in thelast three years
has been forced to lose faith in its'mining leaders of
former days. All investors who followed well-known
directors have lost their money in one big mine after
another. There is no need to be rude to the leaders of
the mining’World, but let any dabbler in mining who has
lost niOney during the last three years lie back and think
over the list of big men directing big mines in which
.his money was lost. There is no specific remedy
for folly, and the investor who has suffered by
buying shares because So-and-So was a director
should make up his mind not to do so again. No altera-
tion of or addition to the laws will imp: ove mining.
We want more honesty and fewer swindles. If it were
made criminal for a director or legal or mine mai ager to
sell or buy shares in his own mine before publishing his
mine's news, we might improve mining—off the face of
the earth ! No, you can no more improve mining than
you can better heaven, or hell, or human nature.


m
■
V
David Jones & Co.
“ORIENT” BOOTS.
Special Purchase of American-
made Boots, Black or Brown
Vici Kid,
Pkice
21 f-
By Post
22/-
George & Barrack Sts.
SYDNEY.
v
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager
Sciety
[?]
[?]
The Governor-General (at whose solemn
swearing-in, t’other day, half-a-dozen people
attended) has been given the, no doubt, unwelcome
task of holding (in Sydney) an “investiture” of
recently-granted Imperial dis-honors, this year.
State Governors were never authorised to hold
“investitures,” and a man of Lord Hopetoun’s
mental size would have surrounded this Durbar-
like proceeding with what the Americans call
much “ dog and hauteur ” —but that is not after
Lord Tennyson’s heart.
* * * *
A.delaideans who have been reading of
Delhi Durbar have been impotently trying to
picture to themselves the magnificence with
which they are sure Senator Richard Chaffey
Baker, K.C., clothed himself on that superlatively
gorgeous occasion. He always was a man to
make the very most of any dignities he managed
to grasp, and, in his own opinion at least, he is the
most important personage at any show he honors
with his presence.
* * * *
The King’s Coronation medal, about which
so much has been made by some of its recipients,
is a trumpery little thing of silver, and by no
means a good sample of the die-sinker’s art. Also,
it bears the wrong date (June 26, instead of Aug.
9), and its intrinsic value is certainly not more
than a pound with the case and ribbon thrown in.
The King “requests” that it shall be worn on
all suitable occasions, so that its utter tawdriness
will soon be widely recognised. Its semblance is as
that of the pewter medals which children delight
in.
WOMAN SUFFRAGE IN N.S.W.
MRS. DEFRESHE : “Yes, poli[?]eman, I’ll take ray vote; and you
might as well give me the cook’s and the housemaid’s too;
they won’t want them, I’m sure.”
£ Australia’s latest murder-victim was a
peppery old fellow, past 80, who found comfort in
damning his relatives to every stranger who came
along. And the old chap, who lived alone in one
of the few delightful spots in S. Aus., would wind
up by telling the “swaggie,” or whoever else it
hxppened to be, that, damnem, the scum
shouldn’t have any money of his—and he had
whips of it. As a matter of fact, though he was
worth a thousand or two, he probably never had
more than six or eight pounds in the house ; so it
was probably a very disgusted stranger that made
tracks from the place an hour or so after breaking
the old man’s skull.
This is what it has come to in M.L :
Vagrancy * John M'Kough, a young man who said he
had been in S’Africa, and had seen service, pleaded not
guiltv to a charge of vagrancy. Constables Wade and
Moriarty said accused had done no work since his return
a few months ago. Accused said he had been operated
on in the legs as the result of the war, he having served
in Brabant’s Horse. He alleged that he had been hay-
making’ and working on a fishing boat. His Worship said
Queen-st. was too full of such men as accused. Returned
troopers had a tendency to go on the downward grade.
The case was one to be met with three months’ imprison-
ment, but he would only award a sentence for a time
that would enable accused to recover physically. A sen-
tence of three months’ hard labor was imposed.
So the gaol is now the sanatorium for wounded
returned troopers, and hard labor the medical
treatment.
• * * *
One big Australian firm of great military
ardor made a point of giving the returned
swaddy preference of employment. It now
has good reason to be sorry for its “loyalty.”
Certain cohentingenters, who had learned to pick
np sundry trifles at Boer farm-houses and on
board the transports, could not help displaying
their foraging ability when behind the counter.
There have been already some appearances at the
police courts of returned patriots—the military
enthusiasm of their employer not going so far as
to make him condone little martial irregularities
of that sort.
* * • *
As The Bulletin remarked on a previous
occasion there is a great deal of hard flogging in
the Bible, and when a demented or ill-balanced
person gets religion very badly he generally flogs
somebody. That Melbourne youth, who is accused
of flogging a small boy almost to death, is described
as a religious maniac, and a Ballarat man has just
been diagnosed as a religious lunatic, partly
through his conviction that he is the prophet
Elijah, but mainly through the appalling manner
in which he flogged ids son. The combination of
Elijah and the flogging was held to be sufficient
evidence, and the Ballarat man went to the
asylum. , * *
As the result of years of growling on
parents’ part, most of the S.A. private schools
have agreed to adopt the English system of three
school “ quarters ” a year.
Part of Westralia’s
‘ ‘ charity ” vote goes to
“fresh-air” funds, and is
really a subsidy for carrying
the run-down children of the
poor from the hot, grimy,
barren goldfields to the
seaside. The House passes
the item every year, but
never feels quite sure whe-
ther it ought to, and gener-
ally growls a little. But,
anyhow, it is better and
more honest to have a
straight-out vote like this
than to charge the railways
with the (State’s charity ;
and that is what it amounts
to when the railways are
practically forced to carry
passengers at less than pay-
ing rates.
* * *
The early retirement
of the veteran Inspector-
General Fosbery from the
control of the N.S.W. police
should afford Govt, a chance
of placing a strong man of
practical and wide experi-
ence in his place. The
number of subsidiary duties
imposed upon the present
head materially interfere
with the effective working of
the department. The detec-
tive branch of the service
badly needs remodelling ; it
contains a few smart men
and many unspeakable duf-
fers. Salaries for good
“ d’s. ” should be consider-
ably raised, as brains and
pluck cannot be lured for
a laborer’s wage. Were this
done, it would tend towards
making the ’tecs more inde-
pendent and less addicted
to taking presents from
private individuals; it would
be hard for a. detective, as
things stand, to fully dis-
charge his duty and yet live
within his pay and allow-
ance3. The police system also is sadly in need of
a thorough scrubbing; a transference of some
officials would be the best means of breaking up
sundry undesirable cliques.
* * * *
Latest Sydney joke is to put an advertise-
ment in the paper :
"W 7 ANTED, young lady TYPIST. Apply personally
No one wants a typist at the address given (in a
distant suburb) and the “joke” is to get poor
girls to lose their time and money. It’s a joke
that tar-and-feathers would about meet.
OVERHEARD AT THE
ZOO.
DISTINGUISHED VISITOR:
Haw! Are those — ei —alligators amphibious?’,
O’ROURKE (the keeper): “Amphibious ! Be
jingo they'll bite yer leg off!”
« T. D.” :
Re the alleged
molasses - cure
for cancer, now
being inves-
tigated by
Queensland
doctors. There
is in Melbourne
a man who
claims to have
cured2oo cancer
cases by merely
feeding up the”growth until it surfeits itself, dies
and falls away. The special delicacy with which
he regales the growth is a closely-preserved secret,
but it may possibly be molasses, or some com-
pound of a similar nature. For external cancers
the thing seems feasible enough, and I have been
shown the dead alleged ly-canc'erous growths and
the wounds from which they have fallen ; but it
still seems probable that the internal cancer will,
when treatable at all, have to be got at with the
surgeon’s knife. #
N.S.W. Govt, has announced that in
future the daily-wage staff will be paid for only
seven non-working days per year—New Years
Day, Anniversary Day, Easter Monday, Eight
Hour Day, King s Birthday, Xmas Day and
Boxing Day. Eight Hour day is a gift of the
O’Sullivan’s, but it is mistaken kindness, as it is
secured at the expense of Easter Saturday. As
Good Friday is not to be paid for, this will mean
that the mechanical and artisan staffs will lose
two days’ pay running. Easter week is too valu-
able a holiday for the professional and clerical
divisions to give up, and the workmen can hardly
go on “on their own.” If the Saturday is not
put in, the men won’t have much of an Easter
Monday, and if the Easter week is to be inter-
fered with the other fellow will make a row.
• • *
N.S.W. public service is to lose its half-
holiday for race-meetings, cricket-matches, open-
ings of Parliament, and other excuses for taking
its best girl down to Manly, or doing-up the front
garden. The practice began with letting half the
staff off on Metropolitan day and the others on
Epsom day, and gradually spread until (even the
service itself admitted that this was “pretty
strong”) the recent Queensland cricket-match was
seized on as a pretext. The Ministerial foot came
down when some of the daily-wage men started to
demand the same concession. Besides the time-
markers in the service, those most affected will be
the race-meeting promoters and the Cricket Ground
people, who used to reckon on the civil servants
to supply a good portion of the ‘ ‘ off-day ” gate.
* * * *
N.S.W. Railway Commissioners are to
save vast sums by knocking off Saturday’s work
from some 2500 employees in the various work-
shops. The majority bow to the ukase, as with a
falling-off in the railway revenue some retrench-
ment was expected, and it might have been worse.
Voices here and there are heard inquiring how
much the Commissioners themselves, the princi
pal officers of the service, and the professional
staff, whose salaries are four figures high, are to
be reduced. Nothing, of course. They shelter
themselves behind the good old plea that their
salaries have been “voted” by Parliament.
Surely when the Assembly voted the railway
estimates they were drawn up on the understand-
ing that the small men were to consider their
screws as inviolate as those of the big folk. A
reduction of even 2h per cent, on salaries over
<£6oo would represent an amount quite as con-
siderable as tire contemplated saving, and the
reduction would, or should, not come so hard on
those affected.
« • * •
The cable-liar grows monotonous. But
now that all the dailies get the same service, and
expaitd their cables extraordinarily, the result to
the public, though bewildering, is often also
amusing. The Age last week published this from
its “own correspondent”:—
The prevalence and severity of ophthalmia in Egypt
make the disease a kind of national plague to the natives.
With the view of discovering effective remedial means of
dealing with the evil, the “ Oaisse de la Dette,” which
deals with the finances of India in respect to foreign debt
payments, has offered to devote £40,000 for the promotion
of the medical study of Egyptian ophthalmia.
The Argus version of the very same wire was :
Sir Ernest Cassel, the well-known London merchant,
who has made large contributions to philanthropic objects
within the past few years, has offered £40,000, to be
devoted to furthering the study of ophthalmia in Egypt,
with a view of obtaining a cure for the disease.
The joke of the whole thing is that the great
Egyptian organization for reducing interest should
be made an Indian affair, and be confounded with
Cassel, the London Hebrew financier.
* * * *
In three days during the holiday season,
Melb. and Sydney papers reported over 200
fatalities in the two States alone, mostly from
heat-apoplexy, drowning, and fooling with a gun.
A holiday season seems to be as deadly and almost
as costly as a big war.
Primate Smith cir-
cularises for 20,000
gifts of Is- or 2s. (id.
from the 20,000 persons
he has confirmed since
he arrived in Sydney.
He wants the gifts for
the Cowper Dean-
ery Endowment
Fund. It must
often seriously
tax the sacerdo-
tal mind to
discover a new
way of getting
a finger into the
public pocket.
Whatever it ought to do, election of
mayors by the ratepayers does not, in S. Australia,
give results worth enthusing over. The billet is
in most places reckoned the rightful property of
“the man of means,” and in more than one place
a little coterie of more-or-less gilded ones cut up
the chair among them by mutual arrangement.
Last year there was but one solitary fight over a
mayoralty in city and suburbs, and in the country
there were less than half a dozen. No doubt the
people could do better if they liked; but in
practice they don’t, with the result that actually
they have less say in the business than when the
mayor is elected by the aldermen or councillors.
Also, instead of being chosen for his brains, he is
chosen for his “ beans.”
* * * *
The decease of the Tasmanian Deputy-
Postinaster-General has directed attention to this
point, which has always exercised the minds of
the small army of public servants who have been
transferred to the Federal service :
Is the whole Postal (say) Department one ? Can Jones,
who has been 35 years in the N.S. Wales P. 0., claim
seniority over Brown, with 34 years’ service in Victoria?
Because, if Brown finds out that he is behind a man
whose existence he had never suspected, Brown will make
a row. If Smith, up in Queensland, who has been watch-
ing his immediate senior die slowly by inches for years
past, finds that Robinson from S.A. gets the dead man’s
billet, Smith will write indignantly to the Courier as a
mistaken individual who voted for the Bill. The point
that Brown, with his 34 years in Victoria, is before the man
with 33 years in Tasmania, and that Smith has his chance
of a dead man’s billet in Westralia, won’t occur to them.
For, properly speaking, one Federal Department is one
Federal Department. It isn’t six ; and the man immedi-
ately under another in one State has no claim to the
vacancy if it can be more properly filled to the credit of
the Commonwealth by the transfer of an officer from
another State. Not that you will be able to convince
Brown and Smith of that.
* * * •
Pastor Tremayne Dunstan has told his
story to a gatheflfcig of Sydney friends. It is to
be presumed that he made out the best case that
lie could for himself ; and it does not look too
good a case :
The rev. gentleman, it seems, has been juggling with
money, and losing it in the process, for almost a decade.
During the greater portion of that time he was earning a
salary which, for a clergyman, was munificent, and he
might at almost any time have settled his affairs on a
square basis by an assignment. But he went on,
hoping against hope, plunging into fresh diffi-
culties, borrowing from one to pay another, and,
finally, before his hurried departure,' arranging little
loans by means which are indefensible in the
light of any sophistry. Mr. Dunstan gives us his
assurance (which, all things considered, may be believed)
that there wasn’t a woman in the case, that he only took
a very small amount of money with him, and that he
didn’t lose money by playing cards. On this point—“ I
was invited to a house once and found that it was a
progressive euchre party. My wife and myself proved a
nuisance all the evening, because we did not even under-
stand the game. Even yet I do not know how to play
euchre, yet presumably on the strength of that visit my
downfall has been ascribed to card-playing.” Of course
one can lose money at cards without knowing “ how to
play ” and playing ; in fact, that is the easiest method of
losing. But Mr. Dunstan, on his own account, had as his
only luxury for the large amount he got through, the pay-
ment of money-lenders’ interest. The investigation of
Mr. Dunstan’s conduct is to be undertaken by a com-
mittee appointed by the chairman of the meeting of his
friends. But the verdict from such a body can hardly
carry any weight. An impartial investigation would be
alone of any value, and possibly that may be held. Mr.
Dunstan states his whole indebtedness at under £3OOO.
There are onlv two “ widow ladies ” among the creditors,
which shows that the luck of widow-ladies is 11 in ” just
now. When a popular clergyman gets into difficulties
the widow’s mite generally figures very largely in his
debts.
* * . ,
Brisbane inspectors found an Asiatic state
of things sanitary in the northern towns during a
recent tour. Townsville, where three cases of
plague had occurred, had no rubbish service, not
even a dust-cart; and the back lanes, yards, and
vacant blocks were covered with household gar-
bage and all manner of filth—half hidden, in many
cases, by the growth of prickly-pear and castor-oil
plants. Ihe accumulated mucks and smells of
yeais had become part of home, sweet home, with
some of the residents, and at first the municipal
authorities opposed the inspectors’ cleaning so
vigorously that an Order in Council had to be
obtained to cleanse the town. Then 30 men and 17
large drays were specially employed, and these
removed and burnt 2000 loads from one-half Jof
lownsville. I hey had started to dig up the other
bait when the inspectors (who probably couldn’t
stand any more stirred-up Townsville) departed
hurriedly for the next place.


ln the Matter of Dress attention to Detail Indicates Breeding.
EVERY LADY KNOWS THAT
KLEINERTS HOOKON
istheonly Q Hose Supporter
To Wear with the NEW FORM CORSET.
Sold only at the Best Shops.
SILVER
STAR
IN
THE
BEST
THE
WORLD
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Australia’s
Leading Tonic
Beverage.
Sydney Board of Health threatens to takT
nTwYJTk ° f - the aflulter ations common in
W/; - Wbrewing, and there is, consequently
Kwers a - COrreBP ° ndeUt ’ * reat aSrSe
of the use •*
is probably true that in the ZLt f Preservatives. It
N.S.W. it will never /"k P aln d ‘ 3tricts of
malt-and-hops beer n™ r6W a goo . d> pure
commereiallv-profitable lines U9e .of Preservatives, on
climate HrinV .;? canie llne s* Beer is essentially a cold-
Health’isH “hr in t L t fen- trenera publia The Board of
(which in its effect on the uubbe health the beer .' su, ' ply
ance after the mill i , publlc .health conies in import-
locally-made pure malt” in a hot climate. P
A N.S.W. public-school teacher :
Apropos question asked in Bulletin (20/12/’o2f the
SqultaS
nttstery—ei en to the “proprietors.” One of the
Gazette s latest developments is hardly decent. A great
number of teacher-subscribers are oons'iderablv in arrears
of payment, and many, including some prominent
have not paid at all, though the publication has l eer!
r nrniig for years. This is, of course, very wrong, hut
deputy chief b r!£ ht ! dea ° f gating the Department’s
Si? i*’ u- M oredle > to sign the bills requesting
!rm -tv, h,s capacity of treasurer, is “wronger”
?£ dl \, wonder of those who know him for
the white man he is, is that Mr. M'Oredie allows
i name to be used for the purpose indicated
re the N.S.W. public-school libraries. Who owns
, ?f e „' In , a ? a ? e a ’'ttle while ago where some objection-
able party books were mentioned bv a teacher to his
inspector the reply was that the Dept, had no control
over the libraries ; and in another case a teacher, leaving
for another charge, took the best of the books with him
and pe °K Ple ) vbo complained received the same reply!
What a bungle ! Also, the books are generally choseri by
g™2» on . °, f a f ergyman, and nearly all are Religious
Tract Society publications. In one locality a R.C. boy took
home a and got along all right till his parents noticed
him dee oiterested in the “conflict” of Luther with
the tnors, Superst : tions, and Idolatry ”of the True
•TV . Inc l uir - V resulted and showed that the library
m ght have been chosen by Dill-Macky himself. In-
spector advised the teacher to sell the books objected to
and buy suitable ones as there was no official wav of
dealing with the difficulty. And yet the schools are
undenominational !
* * * *
Hutton and Bigjohn and the Backwash
among them have just about flattened out the
army in South Australia. On a recent Ade-
laide parade there were 34 officers and 88 men,
and several of the officers admitted that they had
turned qualify for their quarter’s pay.
A Sydney woman petitioning for divorce
hasn’t heard of her husband since he escaped from
the Central Lock-up, Sydney, three years ago.
ihe Court has ordered that, as he can’t be per-
sonally served, he must, by way of substituted
service, be advertised for in the Sydney papers.
a ice chance of a response.
WHAT A HORRID WOMAN!
DADA : “She says our kid gave her kid the
measles."
MAMMA : " What a horrid woman! Why she
knows perfectly well that her kid came over to
our Cecil and took them.”
Woman hasn’t lost all her privileges
though she has found her rights. She can still
get the best of the fight and then proceed against
the man. At a police-court, t’other day, a man,
charged with assaulting his wife, appeared with
his arm in splints and swore that in the little
domestic row between himself, wife and children
he had his arm broken, his ear slit, and was stabbed
in the groin. Still he was fined 40s.
A travelled correspondent:
would find 'much work'fir? “ holida ,v-resort ” expert
people are d £ ln Australla . where, though
those who DroviHo ,y keen on a rausing themselves,
roana K eTs) are a centu^v U h^- n i\i Save the theatre-
are some charming!-.? beh, '! d , the times. There
it is only by subridttin'^i o^ 8 Australia, but
modation ” is advertised “ a f CCOm '
black-fellow conditfons wtth a thin v°e°„e r “
subiu ban boarding-houseism Wrifpp
has painful recollections of a tourists'
N°s e w 80I r wh f e near Moss Vale,
would tbe - food and co °king
khpnll • an ln surrection in a
the m ca ,T p; of another, on
the Blue Mountains, (N.S W 1
sauce 6 lb ' Cooked i oin ts with fly
sauce, were served on dirty
fiTrh" quests sitting on
filthy beer-stained chairs;
or Tasmanian boarding,
houses where the supreme
scarcity of food seemed to be
LtTh fc a / ec^ nition of the
tact that what was provided
was too nasty to be eaten.
Victoria is more business-
in°lf - act i ominodati °n
in that State is distinctly
B ' ,peno f r that in any „th4r
part of Australia; but Vic-
toria has not many play-
grounds, and her 'citizens
mostly go to Tas. or N.S.W. for
holidays when means permit.
And despite the miserably poor
accommodation at tourist re-
sorts, the prices are very high,
he average holiday-maker does
object to being finan-
f 8 aughtered, provided he is
fattened for the
slaughter. Give him
bright, cheery break-
fasts with aromatic
coffee, a glowing grill
of fish or flesh ;
tasty, cool lunches,
and well-cooked, sub-
stantial dinners ; good
liquors and clean linen
withal ; and he is content
Jo P a y for it, even
through the nose.” But
to he robbed and to be
Uncomfortable during the
process, in that there is no
prisint n° n m fT® there would be for an enter-
Hobart or on at . Kosciusko, Katoomba, Jenolan,
with m a the . Gl PP sla, ‘d mountains; a really fine hotel
Cricket id rfnn°-l an , d its golf links and
band l u grounc,s > and concert room and strino-
band (band members could be waiters, too)—in short its
who organised system of amusement! A rnan
a nea t nf et T'? , the “ ttle ra nge of hills north of Sydney
housed /nothdn, e’ " he *V° U «■" be decently fed and
cooked food th re V' a ° rdlnary ’ Just S° od > Pimn, well-
cooked food, really clean rooms, first-class liquor and a
hm vent°ure. ate) ‘ 8 making a little pile out of
_ * • * *
Koftnd about Adelaide it is complained
that suburban roads are going to wreck for want
. of repair, while the citizens are
putting up their money—not much
of it, but enough to do a good deal
of road repairing—for some kind of
a brazen image “in memory of
the S.A. soldiers who fell in
Africa.” Surely the people
who fall just outside Adelaide,
owing to the big holes in the
highway, should be the flrafl
consideration.
There is incentive to reflection
on the intricacies of the social sys-
tem of N.S.W. in Minister for
Education Perry’s announcement
that he favors the exclusion
from the Service of female
teachers on their marriage,
but is willing to re-admit
them as widows.
There are three “Ragged” schools in
Hobart —wretched importations from the slums of
London dumped down in a healthy Australian
island which should have no stratum of paupers.
The Lewis Govt, has just taken the first step
towards wiping them out by reducing the State
subsidy. Parsondom and old maidendom fought
and kicked and bit, but the Govt, was unmoved.
One lady who runs a night ragged-school boasted,
with beautiful unconsciousness of the exquisite
humor of the thing, that she had now a second
generation of boys in the school, the sons of “ old
scholars.”
♦ * • •
A chance for the poor cohentingenter.
From the Age Wanted to Sell column :
TyOODEN T.EGS, 2, nearly new ; inspection in-
' ’ vited after 2 p.m. any day ;no reasonable offer
refused. 12 Little st., N. Melb.
NATURAL HISTORY.
"Pa!" “ Well”
" Can I ask you a question, Pa?” “ Ye-es.”
“Na, if a toad had a tail would it interfere
with his jumping, Pa, or would it help him
like it does the kangaroo?”
“ Tommy, go to bed.”
Echoes of the Yentnor disaster and the
loss of a huge consignment of Chinese corpses (or
rather skeletons) still float round. Latest news is
that the s.s. Energy has been employed for some
three weeks past in an effort to locate the wreck
of the Ventnor off Hokianga Heads, with a view
to the recovery of the large cargo of Celestial
bones. There are on the Energy two Chinese re-
gresentatives and a rep. of the underwriters. The
hinese are sparing no expense, especially for the
recovery of the coffin containing the remains of
magnate Sew Hoy, whose relatives are willing to
pay £2OOO to £3OOO to secure the burial of his
corpse in Chinese soil. There is thus a chance for
any enterprising expert at corpse-finding, although
as a steady business it is as out of date as astrology,
and experts are naturally scarce.
PROBABLY NO ONE KNEW THE
DIFFERENCE.
FRIEND: “By Jove, they've put it in an awfully
good position."
IMPRESSIONIST : “ Yes, hut what's the use of that
when they've hung it upside-down?"
“It is remarkable,” writes a correspon-
dent, “in connection with Sydney Hospital that
one never sees (even in winter, when the sunshine
is new life to the convalescent) any patients out
on the balconies in the front of the building. I
am assured that this is because the people in the
houses opposite (many of them subscribers) object
to the sight of convalescents sitting in the sun.
And, as the hospital cannot afford to lose its
subscriptions, the patients are allo ./ed to use only
the cold back balconies. Even those in invalid-
chairs have to lie out in the shade, and the others
have to walk about wrapped in blankets if they
go out of the ward. If the explanation of this
restriction be as stated, I can only say that when
those subscribers come in their turn to die, they
won’t want any sunshine in the next world.”
r^ e m edical superintendent of Sunbury
(Vie.) lunatic asylum is an enthusiatio advocate
of female “warders” for male patients. The
new system works admirably at Sunbury, He
says : “ I’ve seen a nurse sit for hours after duty
was over with a dying man, soothing and com-
forting his last moments, and he died in her arms
with his head resting on her shoulder. The men
woujd have simply let the poor beggar die. Not
that the men mean to be unkind, but they are not
built that way.’” The case quoted by the
super, is not necessarily a fair argument. A
photograph of that death-scene might have
accounted for the situation. If the patient was
a classic-featured lunatic with long, poetic hair,
and a sweet, consumptive smile the humane nurse
was doing no more than any man would have
done for an insane damsel of personal attractions.
Which reminds The Bulletin that the girl
patients are not permitted the soothing influence
of a male warder’s arms. The new system is a
one-sided arrangement at present. And it seems
to have started on the wrong side of the asylum.
• * *
There is a charming social side to country
Judging by this clipping from a Temora
(N.S.W.) paper:
After the match was over at Sebastopol, the cricketers
and barraekers adjourned to the hotel, where the Cup
was awaiting to he presented to them. Mr. J. L. O’Brien,
captain of Sebastopol,, handed the Nixon Cup over to
Mr - "• Andrew, captain of Temora, in the usual wav,
and that is, full of ale, who asked the two umpires to
drink from the Cup first. After the umpires had spoken a
tew words, the two captains partook from the Cup, which
they did (me), and both passed a few remarks in regard
to the match. The Cup was then filled up three or four
times for the cricketers and barraekers, who drank from
the Cup freely.
On their arrival home, the Cup was taken to Mr. Brett’s,
Where it was filled up about twelve times. A few small
speeches followed, and then all retired to their tea.
At eight o’clock the Seniors and Juniors met at Talbot’s
Koyal Hotel, and spent an enjoyable two hours. The
nrst item on the list was the Cup, filled up by Mr. W.
Leary, who asked all to drink success to the Temora
Senior and Junior Cricket Clubs, which they did with
musical honors. The Clip was filled up again bv two or
three other different members. Dr. Bennetts and several
other gentlemen asked the company to drink their health.
Several toasts were proposed and responded to, and at
Syne ” o c^oc k finished up by singing “ Auld Lang
After they left the Royal Hotel, four or five took the
Cup down to the Empire and filled it up four times, and
then all retired to bed after a rapid night’s enjoyment.
The diction of which suggests that the comps,
were not neglected when the — hie —Cup was passed
round.
* * * •
Railway men visiting Victoria are aston-
ished (writes a correspondent) to see the “ make-
up ” of suburban trains, and predict a big accident
one of these days. The trains are built up on a
system of heavy engine first, then a couple of
heavy first-class carriages, a middle composed of
short and. very light second-class cars, and a tail
of additional heavy first-classers. Instead of
being strongest in themiddle they are weaker there
than anywhere else, so look out, says the visiting
expert, for a disastrous smash.
• » * *
Drivers and firemen on N.S.W. western
line are now provided with respirators for the
Glenbrook tunnel. In spite of an officially-
vouched-for statement, the recent close shave of
two railway men, who were nearly suffocated
whilst trying to get their engine through this
terrible hole, is. not by any means the only inci-
dent of its kind. Why do not the Railway
Commissioners take some steps to ventilate the
tunnel ?
Considering the amazing capacity of Car-
dinal Moran for putting his feet in it when he
has only two feet, the Church ought to be right
glad that his Eminence isn’t a centipede. That
appallingly wild statement of his, to the effect
that at Samoa some Protestant missionaries in-
duced a British warship to bombard a building
where a number of R.C. non-combatants were in
refuge, was most glaringly improbable all along,
though the Cardinal doubtless believed it to be
true when he said it. But, then, a man with a
capacity for believing such things off-hand, and a
tendency to state his bel'efs off-hand, shouldn’t be
a Cardinal —he ought to be a bull in a country where
there are plenty of fences to rush at, and if he
had been born 800 years ago he would have made
a very good battering-ram. This isn’t an age
when any church can afford to put its head down
and rush at things. The church’s head isn’t so
solid as it was 1000 years ago. And now that the
Cardinal has refused to apologise, and has decided
to keep rushing at things, the best thing he can
do is to leave. The spectacle of a high clerical
dignitary being sued for libel wouldn’t be edify-
ing, and it may come to that. And, if it does, Dill
Macky will stand on his head in George-street,
Sydney, from sheer joy. Cardinal Moran is Dill’s
very best asset just now.
Wild’s, in the Sydney Arcade, is the most
fashionable gentlemen’s hairdressing saloon in
Sydney. /J2very attention possible is paid to the
customers by six expert hairdressers. Address.—
30 Sydney Arcade, entrance from George-streeb
or King street, Sydney.’'
TO-NIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I ever scorned the lover light,
Who loved and rode away,
Who clouded all the summer bright.
I ever scorned the lover light,
Who made a night of day.
But, God be with you, dear, to-night,s
And make my night your day.
I cry for him passed out of sight—
Ah, God be with you, dear, to-night
(Who loved and rode away !)
THE YOUNG 'UN.
SONGS UNSUNG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Songs unsung will the longest last,
Soft sweet tones are at rest so soon ;
Clear and shrill is the lark at noon,
But still when the even hour is past.
All the songs that in Spring fall fast
Cease when the Winter snows are strewn,
Songs unsung will the longest last,
Soft sweet tones are at rest so soon.
Ardent vows to the winds are cast,
Faint as the winds that brood and croon
Deep in the firs ’neath rising moon ;
But, while others are dead and past,
Songs unsung will the longest last.
v.l.
AHAU.


"§
lish
RAINCOATS.
Are the Ideal Fabrics
FO R
A SET OF TEETH ONE GUINEA
Beautiful and Lifelike in Appearance and Guaranteed Perfect Fit. Absolutely Painless
Extractions and Stopping’s Guaranteed.
Special Attention Given to Regulating Children* Teeth.
Mr. J. SPENCER NOLAN, R. 9.5., Surgeon Dentist, 43 Oxfo d-st. Sydney
Sold by all Drapers and Hosiers.
KNEIPP LINEN
—— UNDERWEAR
Porous. Cool. Clean. Unshrinkable
Recommended b.v “ Lancet.”
J. Me BRATS EY (Wholesale only)
321 Flinders Lane, Melb, 359 George-st., Sydney.
The Lacte Remedies— What they are. How
to use them, and speedily obtain a beautiful
plumpness of face, neck and arms, and a perfect
bust. Write for H. Westall Guest’s new pamph-
let, post free, 229 Bourke-st., Melb.*
T
BRINK ONLY
CHARLES
HEIDSIECK
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
My Dear Arini—
Sydney, January 13, 1903.
Our State Govt. House people are now 80 miles
or so away from the metropolitan dust and nor’-
easters in their Sutton Forest home—riding,
golfing and photographing, and looking forward
to nearly three mouths’ rest from openings, first-
nights, the concert of the phenomenal student,
the cake-and-apron fair, the speeching and the
charity ball. Sydney citizens, all who may, are
making for the Meccas of their fancy—Moss Vale,
the Blue Mountains, Tasmania, Maoriland.
A fortune-teller who has just retired from busi-
ness tells me that the majority of her clients were
married women from 35 to 50 years of age. Very
few unmarried women, excepting really young
ones, consulted her, she said. It was the discon-
tented, unhappy ones that came for consolation
and hope. “They wanted to be told that they
would be widows, and I told them, and they used
to go away radiant; but they didn’t want to be
told that they’d remain widows; not they ! Not
the oldest or plainest of them, and to make them
entirely hopeful I had to indicate another hus-
band —rather vaguely, of course. He was already
married, with this or that number of children,
and it was evident that my client had him
already in her eye, for she nearly always said,
‘Yes, that’s him!’ and gave me details about
him, and said she was sure ‘ things would right
themselves ’ —which, of course, referred to his wife
being got rid of somehow when her husband had
gone to glory.”
A distinguished visitor to Sydney was going to
Melbourne by express, and was asked by a friend
of his to show some attention on the road to a
lady fellow-traveller who was journeying alone.
The D.Y. promised enthusiastically, and fulfilled
his promise by bringing the lady a cup of tea next
morning at Albury, saying, “3d., please!” She
missed a point by not giving hint 6d. and telling
him to keep the change. Perhaps last time he
looked after a lady on a trip she was an actress.
A man friend of mine tells me how he looked after
an actress down to Melbourne once. During the
evening’s run she got through his flask of whisky,
all of it, and he had to renew it at a refreshment
room with very poor stuff, which he couldn’t
drink—but she could. At Albury she had break-
fast at his expense and hinted champagne. Later
on she had luncheon at his expense, and demanded
champagne. And she was such a sweet, fresh,
innocent young thing, too !
The Forbes man who is reported to have
entered, late in life, into his kingdom a
million in Chancery money —has a grown-up
family, with whom he used not to be on the best
of terms. He lived apart from them, and went
on with his wood-carting in solitary sordidness.
Two of his daughters work at warehouses in
Sydney.
What an extraordinary vogue appendicitis is
having! Yet a few years ago the very word
was unknown to the average person. An old-
age pensioner who died of it recently was
quite cheered in his last hours (as was also
his wife) by the fact that “ he had the same thing
as the King.” An American doctor attributes
the increase in the number of app. cases to the
changes in the methods of milling flour, which
take from the grain all the phosphates and leaves
only starch and gluten. He asserts that wherever
a community has abandoned the old-fashioned,
coarse flours, appendicitis has very soon made its
appearance, the latest illustration being among
the negroes of the South, who, while their bread
diet was solely cornflour, did not know what the
disease was. As the use of white flour has
increased, appendicitis has made its appearance
among them with disastrous results. The reason-
ing is, of course, quit j empirical. At one time
it was believed by many that tomatoes caused
cancer, simply because cancer began to be under-
stood when tomatoes began to be eaten.
A child, six years old, has been killed by the
cow which he was milking. And an infant left in
charge of an older infant went to sleep, and the
younger infant was burnt to death. These two
accidents occurred recently in N.S.W. Someone
will have to write a new “ Cry of the (Australian)
Children.” A child of six milking a cow ! One
of the proofs that we are living in a gentler time
is the growing recognition of the rights of child-
hood, but the growth is slow ; there is so much
ignorance and brute-beast to be yet eliminated.
At Newington Refuge, lately, I came across a
nice, mild young woman of about 25, who is par-
tially paralysed and wholly blind from the effects
of hard labor and ill-treatment when a child. She
was a bush girl, and her mother died when she
was six years old. “Friends” took charge Of
her, and over-work ill-treatment wrecked her
physical health.
Lady Beaumont’s departure from Sydney will
leave the Women’s Club in tears. She was a
most enthusiastic clubite, never missed a
committee - meeting, and had her fellow
members to Admiralty House lunches. Mrs.
Hodges, wife of the master of the C. of E. Gram-
mar School, was nominated by Lady B. her
successor as President of the club.
Melba’s favorite foliage is clearly not that of the
olive tree. She had friction with pianistScherek.
She quarrelled with Miss Gill, her secretary, the
other day. Now her ad vance agent, Mr. Tait, is
suing her for breach of agreement.
Alice Hollander is living and studying at
Lexham Gardens, London, with Miss Hope-
Wallace and teacher Bethune. Miss H.-W. is a
cousin of our late Gov.-General, and a niece of
Mr. Bethune’s, who is also, of course, a cousin of
Hopey’s, and she chaperones Alice when they go
visiting into the —er—peerage.
“Willie” Beattie, who took his sweet tenor
voice and a romantic play in MS. to London a
year or so ago, is now on his way back to Sydney.
Too much fog, mist and cold for the Australian
boy. r
Myrtle Meggy, the 14-year-old pianiste wonder
who went to London to study, is domiciled in the
home of her teacher, Miss Verne. She has a
lesson every day, and a weekly lesson in harmony
and orchestral work ; and is also taken to the best
concerts and given the chance of meeting the best
musical people—all for £lOO a year.
Mr. James Milson’s death last Monday, at
Milson’s Point, put the ferry-steamers’ flags at
half-mast. He once owned the ferry and the
Point which bears his name. Mr. Milson, famed
as a pioneer yachtsman of Sydney Harbor, was 88
when he died. He was a picturesque old gentle-
man, with snowy hair and beard, and almost up
to the last seemed good for another 20
years. He was a great chess-player, and
a 70-year-old niece of his, Miss Shairp, once
a noted beauty, used to regularly play with him
a foewoman worthy of his skill. Mr. Milson’s
long life seems to have been one of unbroken
health, domestic happiness and financial success.
His first wife was a daughter of the then Surveyor-
General of N.S.W. ; his second—Miss Stewart,
of Parramatta. His six children, three sons and
three daughters, survive him, and are all well
known in pastoral, business and society circles.
“Paul Jones” is back in town in her saucy
shipping-clerk’s uniform. A crowded audience
greeted Miss Young in the part at the
Palace Theatre on Saturday night, when she
came out in brown velvet coat and knee-
breeches, and lace-trimmed shirt; and posed her
fair head against the blue waters of the harbor
of St. Malo—Herve Riel’s St. Malo, I sup-
pose. “Rocks to starboard, rocks to port; all
the passage scarred and scored.” It is a fine bit
of scenic painting, and you catch yourself imagin-
ing the French warships, twenty-two in all, and
the English victors in full chase, almost treading
on their tails.
Miss Florence Young’s curvilinear attractions
are undeniable. There is nothing massive in her
revealed contours, and she is still under the age
limit at which artistes should be pole-axed for
wearing revealsome male attire under the lime-
light. I like Miss Young’s interpretation of
Planquette’s Paul Jones better than anything else
in which I have seen her. There is much work in
the part, but Florence’s version is artistic and
piquant right through the comic opera’s storm and
stress, and her fine, strong, bright voice shows no
sign of fraying after the hard season she has had.
Carrie Moore, as usual full of vitality and
pretty, cheeky frivolity, was overweighted in
appearance by her wild red wig. The thin little
soprano, with her bird’s neck and eyes, always
has “a way with her” in the matter of hats—
their fashion, the angle at which they are worn,
or the manner in which she dangles them by their
strings on their arm. She makes them point her
“ points ” in her gospel according to Paul Jones.
One hat, all wire ribs and forget-me-nots, has no
crown, and leaves the top of the wild, freckle-
colored wig exposed to the limelight.
Lauri’s soul-girdling smile and the ballet’s
sweep and swirl and spread of lace-frills were
thankfully, if languidly, accepted by the crowd of
wilting first-nighters. Mid-January first-nighters !
How I longed for a water-melon, a big fifteen-
pounder, with a big hole in it (made by myself),
which I might hold on my knee and in which I
might bury my face (and blushes) whilst the
frisky pink and white ballet was lifting up its
torchon lace tail.
“ The Christian King,” which Wilson Barrett
tried on the kangaroo in Australia on his last visit,
had its first British production (at Bristol) last
month, a correspondent tells me. Our tall,
saintly-looking friend, Lillah M'Carthy, with the
wonderful bend in her back, looked very fine,
“ but was melodramatic as Zebuda ” —she who
tries to lure Alfred on to the path that is supposed
to be paved with rapture and bordered with roses
and primroses. As if the part, or any part
of the play, was aught but melodrama !
Miss Edyth Olive took the fancy of my corres-
pondent as Elswitha (who marries Alfred, and
rocks her babe in the wooden cradle), and the
critics praise her looks and acting. Can Mis 3
Olive be Edyth Latimer, of Sydney, who played
with the co. here ?
A well-to-do widow, who went to a fashionable
Summer resort for the season, took a furnished
cottage and engaged the services of a local damsel
as maid. This girl was shortly to be married to
the village blacksmith, and the swain soon got
into the habit of passing the evenings in the
kitchen with the maid, while the mistress spent a
lonely time in the front parlor. “What,” she
asked one day, “do you and William find to do
out there every night?” “Oh, ma’am,” sim-
pered the maid, ‘ ‘ we—er-er —oh, we mostly play
cards.” “Well,” rejoined the widow, “bring
your cards in here to-nght ; I’m too lonely by
myself night after night. I’ll join in your game.”
Soon the cards became a nightly institution.
William was a fine-looking blacksmith, and soon
the luckless little servant-girl found—well, one
day the faithless William and the mistress dis-
appeared, leaving her the cards to play Patience
with.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ There is gnashing of teeth in certain quarters
regarding the alleged ingratitude of a personage
entertained by the ‘friends’ of her youth. Not
only has the honored guest neglected to pay back
in kind the hospitality of her hostesses (p’raps she
took it for a free-will offering, not a loan), but she
is reported to wax ‘ killingly funny ’ re the
‘frumps,’ otherwise her sometime entertainers,
while the sight of their little gift, ’tis understood,
invariably ‘ tickles nearly to death ’ the quizzical
recipient and her chorus of facetious fashionables.
If the fair Frivol associates such infinite jest with
said meek little souvenir, what jokes she must
crack concerning that expensively funereal urn,
which coffins the greetings of another band of
admirers ! It really was rather funny in any
capacity unconnected with tombs.
“ One of Senator Sargood’s daughters married a
young Adelaide medico, Dr. Rupert Hornabrook,
who, as befitted the son-in-law of a Defence
Minister, has done much fighting. He began as
a student in the Adelaide Hospital dispute, into
which he entered with great enthusiasm. Then
he battled with the plague at Bombay, going
thence to S’Africa, where he was at the first con-
test of the Boer war, and was afterwards shut up
in Ladysmith. It was also cabled once that he
captured 500 Boers single-handed. Dr. Horna-
brook’s father owns the York Hotel, Adelaide,
which he once kept, and the late Premier and
Speaker, John Bray, was his uncle.
“A Melbourne trading magnate, who lately
bought a—haw—estate of about 10 acres in a
village near the city, promptly had a flagpole
erected, and aped vice-royalty’s plan of denoting
his absence and presence. Even when he drops
across to the township barber for a shave, the bit
of calico is hauled down. The rag-man hasn tas
yet started a sentry, but the —haw—lodge-keeper s
cottage has a most suitable verandah, so that that
may yet come. Melbourne rag-trade is rich in
humorous features.
“ A private letter brings word of great Lyne
junkets in Tasmania—of how Oom Bill sported on
his native heath, down on the East Coast, and
danced at hops given by his neighbors and him-
self. In fact, the blithe rogue-elephant was so
constrained by the bonds of festivity, woven by
the brethern and sistern of his birthplace, that he
had to resist—with great sorrow to resist —an
invitation to a Commonwealth feast on January
the first, where Gen. Hutton sat conspicuously
above the salt. It was to have been a merry little
birthday dinner, calculated to obliterate the
tracks of strife; stomachs with but a single
thought, two mouths that eat as one. But the
elephant was too busy.
“A marriage listed for this week (14th) is the
sequel to a brief courtship in Japan. The lady
took three months’ leave-of-absence from a
Government department (she had saved up her
bawbees from many a year’s screw), and set off
last winter for the East, with some friends. They
had mapped out arrangements for much sight-
seeing, leaving nothing like a fair margin for
random pleasurings. However, that margin
availed, and the lady returned to Melbourne with
an engagement ring. Last week her Croesus from
the East came for his treasure, who resigns from
the Government service, and sails away to Japan.
Now all the girls in the Public Service dream of a
trip to Japan.
“ A wealthy Melbourne widow who has survived
two husbands relinquishes a charming suburban
home and enters the nursing lists. She goes to
Sydney immediately, having arranged to enter a
hospital there. It is that there may
be a desire to give a possible No. 3 all possible
advantages of skilled nursing, should he threaten
to die.
“At polo at Moonee Valley, the other day,
after relays of tea-cups had gone the rounds, the
latest drink fads—mineral waters —were on tap.
You mustn’t endanger your prestige for smartness
by refusing to drink of these waters. To be in
touch with the mighty, you must take a publio
dose of the waters. Alas! woman, having now
the vote, is also going to make public confession
of a liver. No more will man think it fit to offer
gentle sympathy when he sees his beloved with a
far-away, eating-her-heart-out-expression ; no, he
will slip away to the druggist and come back with
a tender of Carlsbad !
“ The polo match, on Friday, served to introduce
the lately-returned voyager—Miss Landale— to
public sight again. The strikingly chic loorakite
has come back from her long globe-trot mi re
French -than the French in her dressing, and m< re
Yank than the Yankees in her manner, bhe
struck on Friday a distinctly new note, with an
independent laugh and some ideas, which she
served hot and savorily. She wore a sketchy
French muslin, with black and cream trimmings.
Her saucy floral hat was a bolder edition of a
Dolly Varden.
“ Melbourne seems threatened with a confusion
of prominent Clarkes. Already there is difficulty
in differentiating clearly the many ‘ Miss Clarkes,’
members either of the State-Governor’s family,
the Cliveden clan, or the new Bishop’s household ;
and now another of the name is expected on a
lengthy visit to State Government House —Miss
Clarke, only daughter of the late Agent-General
Andrew Clarke.
“ Nellie Stewart’s ‘Country Mouse’is a cunning
rural coquette, far better able to * play ’ her
victims than the ‘town cats,’ upon whose pre-
serves she poaches. Woodland nymphs, as a rule,
are less artless than they look. A certain child
of the bush lately wrote home in her first letter
from boarding-school that ‘she knew the English
master was in love with her by the way he looked
at her.’ It was a ‘high-class’ school, and the
English master was an exemplary member of a
circumspect, not to say austere teaching staff, so the
complaint, lodged against him by the new pupil’s
father, fell upon the Lady Principal like a bolt
from the blue. ‘My daughter,’ wrote papa, ‘has
known how to talk her own language since she
was a two-year-old. lam now paying for her at
college, to be learned French and finishings, not
to be made up to by English teachers ! ’
“Nellie Stewart, nowadays, lives and has her
being in the theatre. She has filed down her
dress-distractions, eschews her old reso.ts, and
shuns the casual gapers. Even New Year’s
Day—a nice sunny day to have off—Sweet
Nell spent in a box at ‘Dick Whittington.’
In this stern devotion to work, how different to
the other Nell, who walks from the Opera dress-
ing-room to the circle, and eliminates the artiste
entirely in the Social frivoller ! They tell a yarn
illustrative of Melba’s grand spirits and love of
fooling in the Big Smoke. Some kiddies’ party
was on in a Royal quarter. One Hon. Something
or other, aged eight, declined to play ‘Kiss in
the Ring,’as being‘such shocking form.’ ‘Oh
is it?’ laughed Melba, leaving the lordly adults
and joining the ring. ‘Come, I’ll take your
place—and the kisses.’ She did, and entered
into the fun past all the understanding of the
seniors ; for all the kisses, you must remember
were juvenile ones.
“Armes Beaumont—the next on the list to
benefit keeps up-to-date in books. He can no
longer see to read, but has all the best fiction of
the day sorted out by a diligent taster, and those
that pass muster are read to him.
Mr. Bent, the Railway Minister, is mourning
his wife, who died last week at Brighton. Mr
and Mrs. Bent and their only child, a daughter
have always been a happy family—the head of
which testified that, in bad times, ‘ our little place
was like a new pin, for then my two turned up
their sleeves and made things extra spruce.’ P
“A. good test of Melbourne’s quietness at Xmas-
tide is that of a recent honeymoon pair who
finding every nook in the mountains and every
niche at the seaside monopolised, remained in the
city and arc putting in a three weeks term of
idleness and bliss to the soft music of the familiar
tram bells. No one is calling, though they are
staying at a city hotel not five miles distant from
their former homes.
“ The she-golfer is a nicely-discriminating per-
son. Her squatter chum on the links she calls
‘Bob,’ ‘Dick,’ ‘Ted,’ ‘Bill,’ but her caddie is
‘Richard,’ ‘Edward,’ ‘Augustus,’ ‘William.’
There is a world of snobbishness in a strong con-
tralto call of ‘Richard !' and of friendliness in a
‘ Dick.’
“ Every woman, these days, is tempted to be her
own dress-builder. A Collins-st. cutter offers, for
half-a-crown, to allow a client to use her profes-
sional scissors, pattern, time and advice, in the
cutting-out of a dress. The novice can then take
her nicely-scissored materials home, and join them
without trouble, and run them up on the machine
quickly and easily. The result is a smartly designed
frock. Two sisters out Toorak way produce most
artistic blouses by this half-crown method. They
do more ; before stitching up, they use their scis-
sored pieces as patterns, and oblige half-a-dozen
friends.
“The ‘baby’ sun-hat, with its starched frills,
or its miniature muslin flounces, is the antithesis
to the Panama. The fairy Lilian shades her
peach complexion with the former, the smart
Claudia shows her pert face beneath the latter.
The flying gossamer aids the complexion in the
case of the Panama patron—but the wearer of the
guileless ‘baby’ hat has to trust to its casual
shade and the natural roses or lilies of her cheeks.
The latter is, of course, the less common of the
two thatch mounts.
“The M.C.C. moonlight concerts were popular
with canoodlers. The other Monday a fierce
electric light picked out the platform and its near
vicinity from dark space, and showed a few rows
of middle-aged bonnets and respectable, elderly
boxers. That was all the audience the concert
drew, while two thousand couples, more or less
(probably more) wandered to the cloistered paths,
the shrub-shades, the friendly nooks of the course,
where the sound of the tootlers’ top G and the
eye of the multitude could not reach. And so
the evening progressed, the bonnets and boxers
forming a solemn congregation about the platform
and the giddy Panamas secreted far away in the
outer circles of the benevolent darkness. Thus
the ‘ Concerts ’ are very popular.
“Where are the male singers ? When are they
going to enter the ring ? The Marshall Hall
school only boasts one eligible for the platform,
and his debut, the other day, was not to be
regarded seriously. The Peterson classes pro-
duced not one male student, although there were
a few of the sex taking instruction at the Univer-
sity classes. The little singing-girls seem to make
a dozen debuts in long dresses, then short dresses,
then again in long, before they finally confess
themselves satisfactorily launched in the musical
ranks. The male, it seems, only comes out when
he means to stay out.
“The miniature craze increases. A wealthy
matron from St. Kilda side sports the champion
medallion of Melliourne. It is a full-length
painting on opal of her husband in a fancy ball
costume. This precious miniature has a diamond
frame.
“ There is some excitement in Melliourne egal
circles over the fact that a University stu ent,
Miss Grieg, has passed her fourth year 1; ws,
whilst another, Mrs. I rake, is also well up in the
lists. The Supreme Court rules still debar the
admission of the woman practitioner, but, with
women’s suffrage in the air and almost on the S ate
statute-book, this disqualification will soon 1 ave
to go the way of many old-fashioned inequal ties.
“ The old order changeth. The suburban rate-
payers spilt no over proof stuff by way of wel-
coming 1903. ‘Waits’were warned off. Garden
gates were barred and windows locked ; in some
suburbs dogs, were put on patrol. An automatic
bull-dog is the latest freak of the householder.
How would an automatic bite feel ?
“The swarm of barrackers at the wheel-race
made a great sight of the M.C.C. grounds last
Saturday. The pavilion was as bright and ani-
mated as a field of poppies in the wind. It was a
fair square chance to dress to a warmish tempera-
ture, and to sport ‘openworks’ (above and below),
also the ribbon-threaded lingerie. No amateur
dressmaker need bother aliout patterns for under-
wear. The new styles may be studied from the
samples shown through fresh-air yokes by the
smart. On Saturday there were rows of charmers
who made a profound study of each other’s slip-
bodices —and other things.
“Old Mr. Dardell, the Freneh-Swiss vigneron
and gardener, just dead at the age of 91, has long
been a respected identity in the Geelong (Vic.)
district. Departed was the owner of a lovely
garden at Batesford, one of the prettiest, though
dampest, villages in Victoria. Mr. Dardell
always maintained that a garden should be de-
corative, even though planted primarily with a
view to profit. His own was laid out in terraces,
and when the cherries were ripe, the effect was as
if a rain of great rubies had fallen on theleify
arcades and vine-covered trellises of ‘ Dardell’s
Hill.’ The old gardener, who had been married
three times, suffered a great loss some years ago
when his youngest child, the son of his old age,
met his death by an accident.
“A Westerner took the palm among the
Saturday night audience at Dick and his Cat,
Mrs. Archibald Burt (Miss Roberts of yore).
Residence on the goldfields has increased instead
of diminished her style. Her warm Spanish
coloring gave a new glory to ivory satin and reefs
of chiffon, to say nothing of a rich cloak of inky
satin. Diamonds had a good background in the
attractive raven head. Mrs. Agar Wynne also lit
up her diamonds on a black background.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


Blood Builder Nerve Tonic.
By sheer overwhelming force of honest evidence, Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills have won their name
as the greatest blood-builder and nerve-tonic in the world.
If you have headaches or backaches, biliousness or indigestion, neuralgia or rheumatism, or any
other disease caused by bad blood or unstrung nerves—strike straight at the root of the whole trouble
with Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills build up your strength and pull your nerves together. They actually
make new blood. That’s why they’re the only scientific cure for all blood and nerve disorders like
anaemia, eczema, erysipelas, scrofula, sciatica, locomotor ataxia, paralysis, debility, and even consump-
tion —when taken in time.
CAMDEN CURE. —“My blood was out of order and full of painful, poisonous acid,” says Mr. C. E. New,
Murray-street, Camden. “ Continual rheumatic pains between the shoulders kept me in such fiendish agony that I
could not sleep. I lost my appetite and naturally became very thin. My nerves were wrecked, and I started at the
least sound. Then a friend advised me to try Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People. Two boxes put my-blood
right, and braced up my nerves. They cured the cause of my trouble. Now I am in perfect health, and can
heartily recommend Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills to everyone as a first-class blood-purifier and nerve-tonic.”
Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney. Price, 2/9 per box; six boxes 15/3.
Beware of Substitutes.
I
«
%
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Premier Barton completes his 66th year
on Jan. 18.
Premier Seddon this year surpasses the
Premiership record of ex-Premier Forrest.
Captain Wallington and Cecil Rhodes were
fellow-students at Oriel College, Oxford.
B. J. lias linked again, this time in
London. It probably comes easier with praotice.
Clement Wragge was originally intended
for the law; He was articled in London and
served a term at Clifford’s Inn.
N.S.W. ex-Lands Minister Hassall is now
in business in S’Africa. He is said to have
accidentally dropped on a very good thing there.
Encouraged by the success of “Tommy
Cornstalk,” Mr. “Jack” Abbott intends to
publish a S’African story called “On Plain and
Veldt.”
Died recently at Scone (N.S.W.) Mrs. G.
Beii, widow ef the late member for the Upper
Hunter, and the eldest sister of old “Jock”
Robertson.
Admiral Bedford, the new Governor of
Westralia, is the officer who commanded H.M.S.
Shah in her memorable battle with the Peruvian
man-of-war Huascar.
Among Australians who lorded it at Delhi
Durbar was Sydney’s big beer man, R. L. Tooth
(Mr. “ Lucas Tooth ” he is now), who was among
Lord Curzon’s special guests.
Sydney Town Clerk Nesbitt is said, on
such competent authority as that of John Morley,
to have delivered the most eloquent of the British
addresses on the death of the Duke of Clarence.
Premier Philp, Queensland, was at one
time a much-buffeted boy in the publishing room
of Brisbane Courier. Present Courier sub-editor
E. J. T. Barton and Philp were “ boys together.”
Ex-Governor Norman entertains hopes of
returning to Australia as Governor-General.
Queenslanders are pushing friends, and some of
them remember their old soldier with great affeo
tion.
A proud'fowl is the Kyabramapootra to-
day. Melb. Argus advt. :
GODDARD.—On 31st Dec., at Kyabram, the wife of
B. Goddard, sen. (the Kyabram reformer), of a son.
The great reformer is 70 years older than his new
son.
Of the handful of men who reached South
Australia by the pioneer immigrant ship Buffalo,
in 1836, half-a-dozen are still above-board, and
were hale enough to attend the last annual “com-
memoration ” at Glenelg, the landing-place, on
Dec. 28.
THE LATE SENATOR SARGOOD.
Some solemn humorists persuaded General
Hutton to lay a church foundation-stone at
Hobart t’other day. What a trial it must have
been to the good man to refrain from exhorting
the heavenly contingent to “Stand still, you
blankers, stand still ! ”
Vabien Solomon, once Premier of S.A.
for a week, will not stand again for the House of
Reps., as the splitting-up of the State into dis-
tricts will not suit him. He will run for the
Senate when next elections take place, the retiring
S.A. members of that chamber being, Downer,
K.C., Charleston and M‘Gregor.
Lieut. F. C. C. Pasco (son of that well-
known old Victorian identity, the late Captain
Crawford Pasco, R.N.), commanding H.M.S.
Dart, now at Hobart, lias been promoted to the
rank of commander. If heredity counts for any-
thing, Commander Pasco should get on in the navy.
His grandfather was Nelson’s flag-lieutenant.
Dr. H. A. Langley, C.E. Bishop of Ben-
digo, now visiting N.S.W., is brother of Arch-
deacon Langley, of Sydney. One was originally a
schoolmaster and the other a bank-clerk. They
are natives of Dungarvan (Ireland) but Austra-
lians from boyhood. Dr. Langley was invited to
Melbourne-side by Bishop Moorhouse and the
way to the Bishop’s apron was thus opened to
him.
Archdeacon Tyrrell resigns from East
Maitland after 40 years’ service* He is now 76.
The Tvrrells hold church seats long. His uncle,
the Bishop of Newcastle (N.S.W.), held that see
for about 30 years, and left a reputed quarter of a
million behind him for the use of the diocese. It
lias panned out much less, however; flood and
drought played havoo with the sheep and cattle i
en the estate.
Talking of the “ Festive Season ”
and its awful bearings on the human
stummick, a Melbournite is fond of tell-
mg how he dined one Xmas time with
the late Dean Macartney, of Melbourne.
. e old Dean was then well into the
nineties, and his guest took it for
granted that he wouldn’t want anything
more solid than bread and milk. But
the nonagenarian ate his dyspeptic
young friend to a standstill. Boast beef,
duck, pudding, mince-tart, cheese, des-
sert—everything that the Dean had pre-
viously asked the Lord to make him
truly thankful for he was truly thank-
ful for, because he sampled it. The
man who tells this inspiriting Xmas
story is not quite clear on one point.
Uwing to his dazed condition at the
time, he can’t now remember whether
the grand old man finished his repast
with filberts or dried figs.
For the holidays both Argus and
Age packed Kingston off to “ Merino,
in the Vic. western district, where he
spent his youth.” But he didn’t. It
was at Marino, down where the amphi-
theatre of hills that shut in Adelaide
comes down to the ocean on the south.
Here “Sir Paddy,” C. C. Kingston’s
father—for years S.A. Speaker, and a
fine old democrat for his day—planted
acres and acres of vines, and made such
wine that the fashion was set to plant
vines on all those rich black southern
slopes ; and now there are millions of
them in bearing. But, unfortunately,
the old Speaker (he was from Ireland,
and his wife from Spain) died in the
son’s warm-blooded days ; and
while the other and newer vine-
yards became mints, this pio-
neer among them became a
wilderness, and the cellars a
wreck. Only in recent years,
when he has wanted time to
think, has C.C. gone back to
the old ruined home and to the solitude
which he can command there.
The Bulletin’s old contributor,
Von Kotze, who has lately returned from a
trip round Africa, among other interesting
institutions met, at Lagos, William Mac-
gregor, one time boss of B.N. Guinea:—
He is quite as keen, energetic and Scotch as of yore, in
fact, as regards the latter point, even more so. For he
sallies out personally on market days to barter for the
luscious yam and the emaciated fowl—and he has taken
to wearing kilts. Fancy walking about with bare legs in
a more than tropical, mosquito-infested country'! Lagos
regards him accordingly with a mixture of awe and
ridicule. There exists a snapshot taken by some
irreverent subject of the mighty doctor, which depicts
him in the act of bending down over a heap of yams in
the public market, while a curious, naked little nigger-girl
of ten or thereabouts lifts up his kilt behind to see what
the strange garment is. Unfortunately, 1 couldn’t get hold
of a copy. Anyhow, Mac is doing good work in Lagos,
draining the place and cleaning it of tins and empty
bottles and suchlike breeding-places of the malaria-dis-
tributing anophiles, and he swears he’ll make the colony,
formerly a hotbed of fever, as healthy yet as the Blue
Mountains or total abstinence or an Australian pensioner.
A glance at Henry Parkes’s Ministry of 1G
years ago shows how evanescent political reputa-
tions are in N.S. W. Parkes, Garrett, Sutherland
dead ; Bums, Inglis, Clarke, Abigail, politically
dead ; Roberts and Salomons flickering like
political rushlights ; the only man of them alive
and forcefully living in the Parliamentary world
being B. R. Wise.
Victorian Legislative Council unknowingly
showed its gratitude to Frederick Sargood, who
led it along its Tory way so long, by postponing
the new Duties on Probates Bill over the
Christmas adjournment. Had the Bill passed at
the date originally intended the deceased Senator’s
estate would have paid an extra two per cent,
duty, a matter, certainly, of five figures.
Justice Moorhead, of W.A., who died
lately, was one of the few Roman Catholics who
have become Supreme Court Judges in Australia.
In Victoria, there hasn’t been one. N. S. Wales
has had Milford (?) and Faucett; Queensland has
Power and Real; South Australia and Tasmania
have had none. On Vic. County Court bench,
however, there have been several R.C.’s.
The Bulletin’s old friend, artist F. P.
Mahon* writes cheerfully from London, where
he has waoome a contributor to several papers
including The Graphic and Wide World
ZINE. He nas joined the Langham Arts Club
(mainly freoneiHed by high-up professionals), and
there spends several evenings a week at the
costume or nude classes. Mr. Mahony will con-
tinue his Bulletin contributions.
“Tom” Bennison, the new Mayor of
Hobart, is son-in-law of Alderman Pigdon, who,
away in the Seventies, was Mayor of Melbourne
and laid the first stone of the new Eastern
Markets. He can add 2 and 2, has a taste for
tree-planting, and is an educated man. He lives
in the biggest house in Hobart (except Govt.
House), and lets the Admiral of the Squadron
occupy it while the flagship is in Hobart port.
SO AWKWARD.
MRS. SOROY : "Do you know, Mr. Tenter, if the
Divorce Court doesn't stop work Til have to
stop giving dinners. Last night I put Mrs.
Lyon's previous husband next to her at table,
and Mr. Denison was opposite to his last co-
respondent. And it was so awkward.
For the first time since Maoris were
granted special representation in M.L. Parlia-
ment all four members lately returned are Govt,
followers, and all are full-blooded. The mode of
voting at native elections should be amended.
There are no voting papers. The voter gives his
name, tribe, family and abode. These are entered
in a book; also the name of the candidate he
favors, and then the weary returning-officer says
“Next, please,” and starts afresh.
Those petitions for the appointment of
King Dick Seddon as next Governor of Maori-
land will be of no avail. The Colonial Office will
never, if it can help it, appoint any man as vice-
roy of a country in which he formerly retailed
grog, no matter how good that grog may have
been. But nothing would please the Maoris
better than to see Richard of Kumara taking on
Ranfurly’s job. Seddon’s enormous avoirdupois
finds great favor with the natives.
Now that Seddon is casting round for
a fresh advt. (the latest move concerning him is a
petition that he be made Governor of Maoriland
after Lord Ranfurly’s term), he might consider
the chances of being worshipped by a new sect of
Maori fanatics. The star of the Hau-haus has
sunk ; and there is room on the horizon for the
sun of the Dick-Seds. A lot of Maori enthusiasm
(and "isli) is being wasted on Mormon missionaries
whit might well be diverted to a nobler object.
Sedduu has the physique of a prophet, and any
Wellington journalist could write his gospel.
Anything with free love and free drinks in it
might do. And think of the Glory !
'Reported that a new Irish saint is to be
canonised—St. Oliver Plunket. The name doesn’t
go well somehow, and when St. William Smith
comes along he will go still worse. It is curious
how many ecclesiastical things sound feasible
just because they are old. St. George of
Cappadocia goes well enough, just because
Cappadocia is reminiscent of the first century,
but St. George Jones of Boggabri would make the
whole fabrio of churchism totter. . . And there
are thousands and thousands of believing people
whose entire scheme of unquestioning faith would
fall to pieces if St. Paul telephoned to the
Ephesians. That one touch of modernism would
be fatal.
Dr. Emily Constance Stone, who died the
3ther day, was Melbourne’s first lady physician.
When she put up her brass plate, “Constance
Stone,” strangers did not always recognise the
name as feminine. On one occasion a R.C. priest
went into her waiting-room, and, in course of con-
versation with a lady patient, he learned that the
doctor was a woman. “Great Heavens ! ” he ex-
claimed, in wild confusion, cramming his hat on
his head, and rushing out of the house.
A letter received in Sydney indicates that
Bell, of the notorious firm of Bell and Davis, was
on the island of Martinque, and was lucky enough
to clear out before the disastrous eruption. Bell,
the letter conveys, is now on his own, having a
couple of years ago separated from Davis. The
pair, it may be remembered, swindled Sydney
right and left, and succeeded in departing (in a
yacht with much gold aboard) with effusive pro-
sssions of admiration from their victims.
Dr. Coekburti is falling further and further
from grace Last mail tells that he is using all
his influence (he is a graduate and a member of
the council of London University) to secure the
return of Prof. Philip Magnus, a Tory, to repre-
sent that ’Varsity in the Commons. This, too,
although a Liberal is also contesting the vacancy
caused by the withdrawal of Prof. Michael Foster.
It is hard to remember that Cockburn was once
more Radical than even Kingston himself.
Mr. Jabez Wright, whose name now crops
up in the newspapers as the victim of matrimonial
infelicity, was once the uncrowned king of Broken
Hill. A strenuous and masterful, though poorly-
educated undertaker, he made his coffin-shop the
hub of the political labor movement on the
Barrier, and many an acute move was planned
whilst Jabez nailed down the lid. He rose to be
Mayor labor Mayor of Broken Hill; then was
rejected for Parliament, and found his power
waning. Business used often to send Mr. Wright
to Adelaide or Sydney, but (he once assured the
writer) he was never happy out of Broken Hill.
That was Heaven to him—that and a popular
undertaking business where people die frequently.
Though out of regular harness, the hand
of ex-editor Windsor, lately returned from his
trip ’Ome, is again to be detected in Melb. Age.
There is no mistaking Windsor’s style—that of a
man who might easily have achieved literary
celebrity as one of the finest essayists of recent
years in England. He is most at home on scien-
tific subjects, which he treats in a vein of delight-
ful humor, that contrasts strangely with the hard-
hitting leaders with which he used to destroy
politicians when D. Syme was quite done with
them. A search through Age files would bring
to light enough matter for three or four books of
essays, sufficient to light a lamp in front of the
modest Mr. Windsor’s name for many years to
cr
A NON-SMOKER.— (AS OTHERS SEE US.)
WILLIE (a cigarette-fiend): "Don't yer old man
smoke?"
BILLIE (ditto): "No; he just sucks a bloomin'
pipe."
The last three Speakers of Yic. Assembly
have been men who, for the whole or greater part
of their lives, devoted themselves to politics.
Graham Berry was in the 50’s a grocer at South
Yarra, and in the early 60’s a journalist at Col-
lingwood and Geelong; F. C. Mason was a
schoolmaster on board the training-ship in Hob-
son’s Bay, away in the 60’s; Duncan Gillies was
a miner when the 50’s were still running. But in
later life they have all three been “gentlemen,”
and professors of politics.


FHREE STAR
WATSONS WHISKY.
THE DR.
DEIMEL LIMEN MSS 1 SINGLETS s® PANTS
The Genuine Linen Mesh
Underwear has arrived!
in all Sizes and in two Weights nhfnin«kiT7 T! -
garment. Linen made in the form of fr ° m a , the fading Mens Mercers it th« « n l 7"L _ _
fashion Woollen Garments It do« us ab «orbent cloth possesses th fix^ d rate of 10 / 6 P er
material Whoever heard 'nf >,; ° es not become clammy or matted in ...t 68 en ? nnous advantages over the old-
giving off moistureT IT^ErSHRINM?"
ROCHUSSEH ERR.,, E 05.7 “ *"
• e Strand Arcade, Sydney ; Charles St., Adelaide.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors.— ln the case ofi ethnological and
natural history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience ;or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific
value.
Among all the rain-recording stations in
N. S.W. the driest last year was Pooncarrie, on
the Darling, with less than 3| inches for the year.
The ironical “ Handbook ” says that Pooncarrie is
‘ pleasantly situated on rising ground ” 346 mile 3
from a railway station, and has a population of
“ about 50 ” —5O dried-up mortals who crackle
when they move and dry-blow each other on the
pleasant rising ground. Then comes Hillston, on
the Lachlan, with less than 4|in. Ivanhoe,
Milparinka, and Wentworth follow, all with less
than sin. Orange, one of the claimants for the
billet of Federal capital, had a little over 20in. ;
Bombala, another claimant, 26£in. For long-
continued dryness—the last year when Bar-
ringun scored lOin. of rain was 1898 ; Gongalgon’s
last ten-inch year was 1899 ; Louth’s 1898,
Menindie’s 1894, Milparinka’s 1894, Pooncarrie’s
1894, Tilpa’s 1898, Wanaaring’s 1896, Wilcannia’s
1895. At 23 stations there was more rain in 1902
than 1901 ; at 105 stations 1902 was drier than
1901. It was a miserable year, but the misery
seems to have had its hub and centre in that town
which is situated on rising ground—a live coal
rising out of Hades—by the Darling.
» * » »
“Barcoo”: Re beast-identification (8.,
27/12/’O2). It is not unusual for an owner to
positively identify and swear to a “stolen beast”
which carried neither earmarks nor brand. At
Ipswich (Q.) criminal sessions, about five years
ago, a noted cattle-“ duffer” and a boy were
charged with stealing some of “Jim” Tyson’s
unbranded cattle from Meteor Downs station,
beyond Mitchell. When asked if he could swear
to an unbranded beast, Tyson replied, “Yes, cer-
tainly ; I can swear to my own cattle ; and there’s
some of ’em outside in that yard.” Both prisoners
were convicted —the senior afterwards died in
Brisbane gaol. I also remember a case wherein a
“squatteroo” swore to 10 stolen geese out of a
flock of 50. On the 10 bung caught and
handled, he justified his oath by showing some
indigo ink marks on the under-tip of the wing.
PLAIN CELTIC.
PAT: “Can ye give us a job, Giffer?"
GAFFER: “ All right , you can go on. What's
your name?"
PAT: “ Fitzmiurice de Quincy de Vhere."
GAFFER: “No, no —your real name."
PAT ( with admiration): “Look at that now!
Sure it's you that knows. I had to d'sgoise
me oidentity on account o’ family throubles.
Me rale name's Montmorency Harcoort La
Trina Antonio de Bosco.”
GAFFER : “ All right, you can go on, but your
name here's Dooley."
“ A.J.B.’' : Very few aboriginal girl-
babies are allowed to survive around Cool gar die.
] know of a good in my infant boys, but in tliree
years 1 'have only struck one girl kiddy, and slie
is a half-caste. Of course, there are a good many
girls of 10 or 12 years, but 1 speak of infants. The
disappearance of the black girl kiddy appears to
be a recent habit. The presumption is that when
the girl child is born it is at once “dispersed.”
It would be difficult to prove, but I am sure of
one girl kiddy that was, some time ago, “done-
in bv the tribe.
“ Scotty ” (very scotty) :
Been so ill I couldn’t before tackle “ A. 0.” (B. 29/11/’O2)
who asserted that he’d seen and caught hundreds of hare-
rabbit hybrids. To whom did he show them ? Did he
send a specimen to a naturalist? He might have seen
one or two. Did the black on the ear go round to the
inside ? If not, there was no hare-cross. As regards the
supposed cat-rabbit cross that is simply a physical im-
possibility. I think I know the rabbit he took to be the
cross.
* * * •
A Rockhampton auctioneer has lately been
selling lucerne grown in Chili without rain. And
Rockhampton has been living for months on
vegetables grown out on the Alice River without
rain. There’s a lesson in this somewhere for the
Bananalander, but now that W.Q. has had a
couple of inches of rain all the lessons of the
drought will be forgotten in a month or two.
• » • •
“Weribene”: The bottom has already
fallen out of a part of N.S.W. On the Upper
Shoalhaven is a vacant spot in the earth’s surface,
occupying about half an acre in a roughly circular
form. It is on the E. slope of a solid sandstone
hill, and the sides go down perpendicularly for
over 200 ft. Then occurs an underlay to the east-
ward, and all to be seen is blackness. Whole
trees have been cast into this place—in fact, all
growing handy, yet there is nothing visible from
the top. Some few years back a party of six
descended by rope about 300 ft., and were not
sorry to find themselves safe,on the surface again,
although they discovered nothing uncanny.
* * » «
“Bunny S.” : That mustering 25-mile-
yarn (B. 10/5/’O2) is either a lie or means nothing
worth recording. Depends on circumstances. If
there was a big spread on the sheep the men could
not have sighted and “ cleaned ” every part of the
paddock—the true definition of mustering—in
time to count 80,000 sheep—six or seven hours’
work for a good counter. On the other hand, if
the men simply rode into the paddock, and
dropped on the sheep pretty handy—within a two
or three mile radius of the water, for instance, put
them together, and ran them through the counting-
gate—then there was “nothing in it.”
* * * 9
Concerning Barton Bros.’ mule, now
starring with Fitzgerald Bros.’ Circus, thus the
Age :
Barton’s turn was brief, but particularly lively. He
introduced a villainous-looking bare-backed mule named
“ Barney ” at the end of a halter,
and informed the audience that
Barney was “ hard to ride.” As
he turned round to make this
observation Barney took advan-
tage of the opportunity to
attempt to batter in the back
of Barton’s head with his fore-
feet. ‘ ‘ He’s a playful animal,
and likes to stroke me some-
times,” explained Barton, as he
moved away a few yards. Barton
didn t attempt- to ride the mule
himself. He considered it less
trouble to offer jEI to any person
who wanted the money. Such
an offer amongst a crowd of Aus-
tralians couldn’t go long un-
accepted. A young fellow
stepped into ths ring, divested
himself of his coat, hat and
neckerchief, spat on his hands,
and advanced. As he took hold
of the surcingle to mount, the
mule revolved upon his own
axis with the velocity of a milk-
separator. the young man stood
oh to cons.der the situation,
and when he tried to get a
fresh hold, th ■ mule reached out
and tapped him on the shin.
As he hopped out of the ring he
yelled back at the shrieking
audience, “ Some o' yous clever
blokes come down and tackle ’im.
P’raps ridin’ inules is dead easy
to them as know the way. I’m a
’orseuian meseif.” A picturesque-
looking young fellow, who had been -
foremost in ottering advice to the de-
feated candidate, then came forward.
He carried a certificate of character from
“out back’’ in his appearance ; he wore
a red shirt with blue pockets; his red
hair had evidently been cut with a pair of
shears at his last shed. He astonished the
mule by mounting with a flying bound, and
the mule astonished him by dismounting him
with a flying buck. “ I wasn’t on him at all,”
i said the rider, as he shook the sawdust out
of his ears. “ I’ll stick to him this time.” But it was
novuse. Nothing buta well-established blister could keep
on- that mu.e’s back. After five plucky tries the ex-
h ms ed candidate gave up, and he exclaimed breath-
lessly, “I came here to ride a ’orse. That’s not a ’orse ;
mat’s an electric disturbance.” Barton passed the mule
out, and save a Ciever exhibition of buck-jumping on a
cream-colored pony, which he rote with a flank rope.
The pony backed cleverly, but Compared with the mule
lie was the merest circumstance.
The need is felt by every patriotic Aus-
tralian of some wild man-eating animal to give a
spice of thrill to the bus.i. The bunyip tried
hard to atone for the neglect oi Nature in this
regard, but tried vainly, and is now an exploded
myth ; and the crocodile only haunts a uiUeraltie
f ation of the coast, besides being too s.u gisli
for ordinary use. Why not try the iguana?
“ ri. IV’ writes :
The other day, as I was riding along the Uratm road
from Deniliquin, I noticed as big goanna making frantic
dashe-at a box-tree oil the side of the road, and upon
invest gation found that lie had attempted to swallow a
good-sized-rabbit whole, but had only managed to get
half of it doVn, and was trying to knock the'rest down
by bashing into the tree. Also, I have seen a goanna
chase a man for nearly 20J yards, stopping at last to
worry the man’s hat, which had blown off. A cyclist
tried ta rescue the hat, but was chased in bis turn.
With a little imaginative perseverance, an iguaua
which would stick up a buggy and bellow for
human blood might be evolved.
BORROWING EXPERIENCE.
RIDER: “ Great Scott! that blessed new-chum’s
taken your horse instead of his own. The
beggar doesn't know one horse from another!"
FLAPHAT: “ Anyway, he knows NOW!”
The worst and more permanent effects of
the drought are other than the disappearance of
the grass and water. The vanishing of the
eaten-off and dried-up roots causes the trouble
now. T’other day a brisk breeze swept across N.
Victoria for a few hours, but those few hours
sufficed to pile up the sand on the railway lines at
Birchip, Donald, Woomelang, and Swan Hill
sufficiently to block the trains for many hours:
while at Lake Charm the line was covered 4ft-
deep in shifting sand, and only a train’s length
could be cleared at a time ! A gang of 14 men is
now regularly employed in keeping the Bendigo
to Swan Hill line clear of sand.
• • • »
During the drought a driver in charge of a
big lot of sheep for a Diamantina firm was in-
structed to secure some of the good, unoccupied
northern country as a permanent run. He got it
all right—in his own name; then he demanded
£5 10s. per thousand per month, in advance, for
agistment. The manager, however, secured
another drover, and took up better country ad-
joining, shaving off the one good water-hole,
which the first man thought he had taken in. The
latter has now a lot of cheap country to let. He
also wants a job.
* * * •
A Mount Chalmers (Q.) butcher notifies
that he will soon have to shut up, but will do his
best to procure a supply of hogs, goats and
wallabies, and keep going a while longer. If
some of the wild-west drovers would bring in a
few good mobs of wallabies from the back scrubs,
he could, he thinks, just about pull his customers
through the bad times. He also anticipates that
next big drought will see Queensland marsupials
ear-marked and branded.
* * • •
Writes “ Eiddal ” :
Mulga, saltbush, sucker-scrub, and other makeshift
fodders are better than nothing, but where any moisture
is available, lucerne takes the cake. Seven years ago a
Carag Carag (Vic.) cookie, on the main channel, sowed 40
acres, and, during the past bad seasons, he has been the
only cockie within a radius of 20 miles that has had a
dairy-herd in full profit. He has never had occasion to
hand-feed ; while the majority of his neighbors have lost
half their stock (after stuffing' them with twice their value
in chaff). Another case : a few years back Gibson Bros.,
of Top Creek, sowed several paddocks with lucerne, and
have gone to the expense of irrigating these patches.
Result—while the surrounding land is bare as the bones
of their neighbors’ stock, the Gibsons have been regularly
trucking fat stock to market and re-stocking with N.S. W.
starvers, turning over their cheques every few weeks.
• • * *
“ A.M.” : Be the aboriginal shell deposits
on the Californian coast, which have yielded many
scientifically valuable relics of ancient Indian
races. It .is said that there are near Ballina,
N.S.W., similar deposits, due to the feasting of
our aborigines there for ages. Possibly these may
be worth the attention of the Anthropological
Society of Australasia.
* • • *
“Fitz”: Beef is scarce and families are
large on the Riverina, and when a visitor strikes
the cocky’s hospitable home at dinner
hour he may receive a lesson in the art
of stretching the meagre joint. 1 did
once. Said the head of the family:
“ Will you have some meat, Willie ? ”
“Yes, please, father.” In a louder
and severer manner father repeated
the question. Willie replied : “Yes,
please, father.” Then the father
spQke again with a terrible voice,
and a look of warning: “Will you
have some meat, Willie ? ” This
line Willie woke up to the situation
with a start and answered “No,
father, thank you,” and father said—
“ That’s right, my boy, I always
like you to speak out plait 1/
when ye’re asked a simple ques-
tion.” The others took the hint
and spoke out plainly and made a
meal on damper and syrup, cheaper and more
filling than meat !
• * * *
The cooking in W. Queensland is specially
execrable. Out Boulia way, some years
during the hearing of a certain case the P.M was
absent, and the Bench, a well-known J.P was
exceeding thirsty. Prisoner, a local Chow’ was
charged with having stabbed a white man’ aiid
his guilt was established beyond doubt Every
now and again during the hearing of the evidence
the Bench retired to fabricate In conclusion his
Worship expressed i himself thusly • “ We’dis
charge you, Ah Gun to (hiccup), “because you are
a . d ~—doodcook! All who have travelled in
the West will agree that the discharge was uer-
fectly justified.
“ Prospector ” on ants (from Mt. Weld,
W. A.): —
Mostly all the box-treea are hollowed out by white
ants. When black ants get in they go straight for whites
and chew their heads off. White ants, too, are pretty
tough in the jaw. I once stuck a new axe in a white-
anty tree, went to pull it out next day, and it came out
minus an inch strip off the blade. When I chopped the
tree down I found a handful of steel borings.
» » • »
“ Myall ” : Rt peddling tramps. I once
knew an artful bagman who, when things were
bad, would grind two bricks together, bottle the
dust, and offer it from house to house as the
“Great American Mosquito and Fly Eradicator ”
at 2s. 6d. a bottle. He had a good gab and a per-
suasive manner, and the bogus powder found sale.
Once, however, a burly bullock-driver reviled the
vendor as a fraud, but the latter, who had
been imbibing freely, took the bullocky’s wrath as
a good joke. “ Won’t kill ’em ! Why you
couldn’t ’ave used it right, old man. You’ve got
to tickle their ribs till they laugh, and then throw
the powder down their throats and choke ’em.”
The bullocky couldn’t stand that, and a four-
round fight ensued, in which the ferocious cattle-
puncher got all the worst of it.
* • * •
“Mick’' : I was camped out last Dec.
sleeper-getting for Narrabri-Walgett railway, and
one very hot day my tent was taken possession of
by parrots, magpies, and other birds, and my cat,
who at other times would climb trees for a bird,
was so done up with the heat that he took no
notice of them, although they were perched on my
bunk. In fact he lay within a few feet of them
for hours, but when the cool of the afternoon came
and the birds flew away, Tom also pulled himself
together and looked as if he regretted neglected
opportunities.
• * * «
The big crocodile which lately popped
forth from the Endeavor River and gohhled a
piccaninny who was sprawling on the beach near
its mother was, perhaps, the monster—24ft. long
—which has been promised as a captive to J. A.
Miller, of Melbourne. A while ago, “Jimmy”
Miller aforesaid was embarrassed by the receipt
of a 12ft. crocodile, and the donor, in sending
it along to Mellwurne, stated that he hoped to
land the 24ft. specimen shortly. Miller being a
peaceable show-printer, with no use for crocodiles,
transferred hie drowsy consignment to the Mel-
bourne Zoo, but it died of self-starvation in the
usual way. Huge crocs, rarely consent to keep
themselves alive in captivity for the amusement
of visitors.
• » • *
Extremes of the N.S. W. climate. The
rainfall for 1902 near Broken Hill was 332 points,
at Byron Bay, on the East coast, 5989 points.
* * * *
A Bulletin correspondent :
Owing to the fact that sheep are allowed to be
grazed on much of the land enclosed along the railway
lines, the considt rahle risk of fires taken in other years
by the permanent-way men w hen burning off the grass is
now qui e obviated. The sheep have c.eaned the grass
up much better than fire would have done, and the risk
to the “jmnbucks ,, from passing trains is very slight.
1 he % > have to he carefully w itched for a day or two, hut
they soon learn to stoid aside w hile a train rushes past,
oheep-feedmg on the lanes has probably o&tns to say
THE SWIFT AUSTRALIAN WOMAN.
M. Nichoas Krukoff, deputed by the Russian
Govt. to report on Agriculture in Australia,
affirms the Australian woman to be lazy. Lazi-
ness newer struck us as one of her faults.
n ' ; travelling representative of a
]" IS •' (^ e lb.) trader has a tatne sparrow that
a. ,1 iw lU r 1,1 tl,e ,uorll *ng by tugging at his ear,
1r 1 win '° e I,,Sfi°Vt;u‘J»t 1 ,,Sfi °V t ; u ‘ J »t of other tricks. The
alwivtfi i ™ *igle Xv jth a flock of wild sparrows,
havener l!^f retUl i nng , to llt,r bunian friend to
of red ini-il captivity (a spot
ot red ink) rubb d Ironi l.er head.
AUSTRALIAN ESE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Two youths I met outside a pub.,
Long, shambling youths were both ;
I asked if they were natives, and
The longer said “My oath I"
“ O lanky friends,” I said again,
“ What toil are you at now ?
Are you with stock upon the road ! ”
The shorter one said “Yowl"
I told them that I guessed it by
The dust upon their clothes ;
The longer said their flock was but
A thousand blanky “ Yoes.”
We drifted in and drank a while
(’Twas at Taranganba);
I said, “ I guess the roads are bad,”
And both of them said, “Yah!”
And then we had just one more drink,
And parted on the step.
I said, “I trust we’ll meet again.”
They proudly answered, “ Yep ! ”
J. H.


STARVATION
White Bread starvation is the unsuspected cause
of wide-spread weakness and debility. The
strength of Wheat Ilea largely in the Bran-
Phosphates, which are, however, removed in
making White Flour, but are restored to the
diet by using CEREBOS SALT at table and
in cooking.
From Grocers and Stores.
Wholesale Agents c—Harrlson «S Attwood, Sydney.
Why do Buyers
Come to as for Rings ?
Ist. Because we are the actual makers.
2nd. Because we are Art Ring designers.
3rd. Because our rings are in exquisite
taste.
Marquesas Ring', set
with Diamonds, £l5/15/
5 Exquisite Pearls, 42/-
5-atone Diamond
Half-Hoop,
a marvel of value,
£6/5/-
4th. Because our prices are the lowest.
sth. Because we buy large quantities of Diamonds in the rough and cut
7th r!™™! " e K Uy ® a PP h . lres , ln the rough and cut them in S Sydney
7th. Because we buy Opal in tne rough and cut it in our Hunter-street
Bth. Because we have Pearls direct from the Fisheries.
9th. Because we pay Spot Cash for all the above.
10th. VY e sell for Cash. No intermediate profits anywhere.
them.
premises.
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
Manufacturing Jewellers
23 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY.
adder 7b t 0 the death '
. uder (n., 3/1/03): This venomous little snake
when biting, strikes also with the tail towards the
that it is the horny spike on the tail that does the
fact Tat there 7s ° n> f ho . we f v , er - has established the
tact that there is not m the snake’s hinder part
any poison-gland or duct. Still, as nothTng exists
without purpose in Nature, the tail3 e may
have something to do with the reptile’s progression
upon the rocky ground which itw muchTSts
dJathadXrt-ovf H bonpmeS illcluded ) believe the
death-adder to be the most deadly of all Australian
snakes whilst others give the palm to the brown
banded and black snakes. Death certainly follows
quickly upon a bite from either of these— almost
; ' >plied. Withln a “ hour-if 110 rei “edies have been
MAJOR ” TAYLOR , the World's Champion
Cyclist.
Photo, by Mora, Strand, Sydney.
“ D.H.R.” to “ K.L.” (8., 3/l/’O3). The
hrst symptom of bite from death-adder is drowsi-
ness, which appears in about smin. after inocula-
£ io *V . Next vomiting often occurs, and sometimes
frothing at the mouth, followed by fits and
twitchings of the body. All patients are not
atieeted in a like degree, but drowsiness invariably
sets ,in shortly after the bite. Death generally
occurs in from 30 to 60 min. Aborigines aver that
\tis possible for a person to be struck by a death-
adder scuttling past, as “K.L.” describes, with-
out the person noticing it.
• * • .
The drought has almost ex-
terminated the bee 3 in the bush. Very rare
nowadays to find a bee’s nest, and then it seldom
contains much honey. Except in the coastal dis-
tricts the wild bee is practically extinct in N S W
S , years ago, throughout the central division
of JN.S. W., as much honey could be gathered in a
week by a couple of men as would last their
.amilies a year. At present it would take a year
to get a week’s supply.
• * * •
“Merton”: During the burning of the
Union flour mills, at Ararat ("Vic.), a cat, driven
to the top of the building by the flames, leaped
from the window to the ground, a distance of
about 60ft., without injury. It was seen next
lay busily engaged hunting burnt-out mice, quite
bund and happy.
• • • •
A railroading incident. Writes “ Loco ” :
Driving my engine, t'other day, arrived at a place
where a man had his sht ep feeding on the railway line. As
our Crain neared, the generally quiet enough mob made a
move, as though to “ break ” over the line. The man got
excited and sent his dog to head them off. Dog seemed
to get excited too, but, as the train rapidly approached,
the sheep seemed suddenly to realise their danger and
stood still, leaving the dog standing fair between the
rails. Man waved his arms and seemingly shouted (noise
of engine too great to hear him). Dog looked at man,
then at sheep, then at us—a look that said as plainly as
words : “ 1 must stay or the sheep will rush in front‘and
be killed.” Hiss-s-s-s-s-s went the air from the driver’s
brake-valve, and the mighty “ Westinghouse ” put such a
check upon about 250 tons of dead w r eight, moving
at 30 miles an hour, that the cow-catcher only ius't
bumped the dog gently aside.
* * • •
“ Bogan Gate A Scotch collie slut, 12
months old, gave birth to 17 (seventeen) live pups
on 3rd Jan., 1903. Is this a record ?
• • • •
Letter received by a Big Scrub teacher :
Dear Sir,—You are a bit two sevear on my Frankie
caning him for not wearing his boots when the inspecter
was at your school he couldn’t wear his boots because he
cut his hands badly wi,h a cane knife don’t you cane him
again like that or I will report you to headquarters.—
\ours Mrs. Oockie. N.B.—My husband is coming up to
see you.
rr n - ® c h°°l*t eac h e r’s description of a Broken
Hill dust-storm:
J2S*£** has a mantle of red dust thrown com-
ni£rhl-y Thl't’ tbe .darkness becomes thicker than
blackboarr) t er u 11!?ht be Pitting a sum on the
kiddie* ann’ H? d he turns round he cannot see the
tOlet them Vu® 'll™' That ’ s the time he wants
same Men l 1 ?- be , < ?! ;ber da V school broke up over the
to*flnd thoii l nd 1( cbddren were lost in their endeavors
and disirnef , omes - t They didn ’ fc know where they were,
fow w parents were hunting: the district high and
iT 1 !? T h u n you wake of a morning you find
clean !!ieee d K ed ciotbes smothered in red dust; the only
marked*nnt be \ ns ’ where your body had been resting,
vour k lovei S' 18 Cearly as if an artist had been drawing
your lovely form on calico.
< < • • 9 ft
Wilgar ” : Yic. cockies are growling
tbe Govt, seed - wheat advances are
S <‘J- * nadec l ,la to-” The attempt to relieve
i < L^ ressec tillers, by risking an average
ioO a head over them, isn’t enough. They want
rodder as well for a couple of six-horse teams (£7
■ros. per week) loose coin for oil, ploughshares,
??:> p ™ visi °ns (including tinned fish and factory
Dutter); and are unanimous on “seed for 600
acres —or just two-thirds more than Govt, agrees
i , I Y e them. The cockie down here asks for
p, hard and often—and looks inj'ured because
he gets it.
• • • •
/tv o Bil, y ” : R e Swamp Oak Falls
L 27/12/’O2). I have lived at Swamp
i,? r <cU and cannot place the “Falls.”
u d D.S.I. please locate them for the in-
tormation of residents ?
ri* * * *
i IE Bblleti n doesn’t feel quite certain
w lether this gentleman is taking a rise out of its
ignorance or not .
wn!r»,h^ Btalia ? aboriginal dialects contain many
but^havo ich sound the same as words in other dialects
slio-hnv a w lder f at meanings, while many words only
S Afferent in pronunciation and spelling have the
RS W Wkh ! ' T ake ;, as an instance, the Nainoi River
vocahnini-l rlb f S ’ (l , the » Bldgee and the Wolmars. In the
water f a tb ? forme T the word “ Indoo ” means
similar'mo’o and word “Nardoo” has an exactly
with the Wolmars. Again, the Terra-
wor-rl -i' i ( .y aCqu ? ne River - N.S.W.) tribe used the
While .. M .. as f ® rrln & to the Supreme Being only ;
“WrlnnV 00 ’ wh , lch l 3 very similar to the Wolmars’
“Tnrier, ’ aleans kangaroo. The aboriginal prayer is
mean«° n a r t e ha f m #-^ Cath / th l a ' ma) naro ° niurrawa,” which
Finn nnri J ea k King of the Sun and Moon preserve the
S“ d Kangaroo.” The Warrego tribe use the words,
Thm them 6 * " !e V which means “give me grog.”
Thus there are three distinct tribes which use the word
iw™ hi 6 , ach w , l ( tb a different meaning. Tlie Upper
T ( rrh,; b aCkS - Say . Terrigyah,” which means talk, while
£sLjf‘“ ill ° f „ th . e Wolmars means “ handsome man.”
baal „ 1 ?> or was, used by several inland
tribes, and means don t or “no” or “won’t.” The
Warregos say, ‘Tin-ninue gowie,” which means “come
wh,v.h QUlCk y ‘« The Barw on tribes say “ make a lite,”
which means come quick.” With the Paroo aboriginals
J a j rraw : ln means a horse, but the majority of the
meins nIT? “ Mura ” with the Warregos
, r s /™ e ’ but tbe Bidgee ” (Namoi R.) use the word
(pronounced mew-ri). The Upper Bogan and
' blacks say “ ting-ger-ring:e,” which means “go
„° beB > but the Namoi tribes say “ tin-ger-rangi” to
“ n P n!hnhh e 8a hh klr ’ dly feelin S- The Paroo tribes sav
blacks b « v aC °-h b y r h a ” for “ you d fool." The Namoi
macks say unibobbencobberi.”
• • • •
Vic. streams are almost devoid of fish
since indiscriminate netting, trapping, and night-
lines have been winked at. Recently the police
were appointed Fishery Inspectors, bub their
unpaid zeal is sadly intermittent.
* • • •
“H.S.R.” : Bird referred to by “ Wasp”
( b. 20/12/ 02) is the small, almost entirely black
wagtail or flycatcher, which makes itself
particularly well heard in moonlight.
)Y -d ’ • Noticed, one hot day in the
Vic. Ma lee, a woman sinking post-holes. Wasn’t
surprised to learn next morning that she had been
confined, but did get a shock when told that
all were doing well.” It was a case of triplets.
Major Laylor, whose portrait appears in
this issue, is champion bike sprinter of Europe and
America, and is striving hard for the Australasian
supremacy. He is not technically world’s cham-
pion, for the reason that he would not compete
owing to the race I icing held on Sunday : but a
couple of days later he met and defeated Ellegaard
the winner, twice out of three times. He is a
fun-blooded negro of medium height, heavily but
well-built, who has judicio ;sly trained and
developed a much-envied pair of legs.
Captain Voss has navigated his “Indian
war-canoe ” to Tasmania, after putting in a
month at Adelaide. In a farewell speech, he
inn™ at - , lad only ]ost on ' man in a voyage of
iOOOO mi.es, and that “through an accident
which might happen on any mail-steamer.”
History repeats itself. Recent advfc. in
Melbourne Age :
B°Y\? ne desir ? us °f learning detective work. Aze.
full particulars, wages required to start, to
Unknown, Age. ’
The victim of the Mentone flogging outrage
received his ‘ stripes through his eagerness to
become a tee.
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinarv
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
r!f Remed / so * d on a positive guarantee. 2s 3d
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28 Shoe
lane,London, England.' onoe
Lold of the late Dr. Parker that when
a very good young man came for advice as to
whether he should accept a gold watch offered
nim (for some special service) by an “infidel”
employer, the great man said: “Take it mv
boy, take it. If he had been a Christian perhaps
he wouldn t have given it to you.” ”
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
yo notice will be taken of communicationt insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case ro contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted , whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany,
S.E.A.: We must confess to not worrying
much about the effect on “ the Empire ”; it’s the effect
on Australia that interests us.. ..Meow: Every pressman
knows that the man responsible more than anyone else
for Sabbath labor and accompanying blasphemy is the
parson who sends round a little note to the editor during
the week, remarking that next Sunday he is going to say
something hot about Kingston or somebody failing to
keep a restful and holy Sabbath, and adding that he
“would like to see a reporter.”.... Quick March (Melb.) :
The world is full of rumors that prove to be false. In its
dyspeptic moments this journal fears that the world to
come is all a rumor.... Mac. :If the ladies’ college in
question is a church scheme-R.C. or otherwise-it must
nave a charitable purpose ” within the meaning of the
cant. Anyway, all raffles are run on the charity ticket.
iou pay Is. for the ticket, and get a ha’porth of chance
to win something. The odd 11 id. is given away.. ..K. •
i„™ V i <len > Ce seems to have some especial down on Method-
ists Sunday-school picnics. Where’s the friction—kiss-in-
the-nng, or the raspberry vinegar?. .John. J. : Nobody can
sneeze satisfactorily with his pipe in his mouth. Go
t™ a °° ol P lace an< ? Ponder this dark saying
k- V",’ abe lnar ? wbo writes this has seen many executions
and has experience of many memorable murder-trials
and he can lay his hand on his heart and conscien-
tiously say that he knows of more than one Australian
case where the prospect of capital punishment caused
the jury or juries to finally disagree—which is pretty well
the same as acquittal so far as the community is con-
cerned. Not so very many years ago as cold-blooded,
cruel, calculating, treacherous, yet withal clumsy, a
murderer as ever stood behind spikes-a murderer who
had probably been guilty of other similar murders—
escaped scot-free, purely because of jurors' especial repug-
nance to capital punishment in certain cases. Two
of the jurors, questioned separately, told present
writer so, and the public and the Crown Law authori-
ties could see no other reason for the failure to con-
vict. Were the question of death or life (or other) im-
prisonment left to the jury, no man or woman would
ever be hanged who had not deliberately committed
murder for what is regarded as an entirely sane motive-
such as the sake of gain. Let us get that reform-advo-
cated in these columns for many years—and there will be
very little discussion about capital punishment. As
things stand, some people are sent to death by juries act-
lng more or less under the influence of an oath repugnant
to them ; but when the average jury, having the "clear
option of sparing a man’s life, sent him to the scaffold
after a dispassionately-conducted trial, you might depend
on it that little sympathy would be felt for hini by
the general community. This paper thoroughly believes
m the jury - system, but it wants to see un-
Junes, especially in cases of life-or-death.
Ethel G : The flat finish spoils it. “ Great is the Art of
Beginning, but greater the Art of Ending.”.. Atropos -
buch a silken style doesn’t suit so wild and hairy a sub-
ject. Cheetah : Off the track altogether ; the giddiness
of mature women would not affect one way or the other
the prevalence of crimes against very young girls—which
are evidences of a madness and perversion of instil ct
having a much deeper cause... .Smile : The theory we
try to work on is this : that whilst a simple yarn can be
simply—even roughly—told, and yet be acceptable if it
nas Australian interest, ventures into the sphere of high
imagination must be artistically worked out. Then the
writer comes into competition, however indirectly, with
such men as Edgar Allan Poe and Balzac, and a very hi<>h
order of merit is necessary to avoid being ridiculous. In
short, let the simple writer stick to simple stories
and leave pretentious themes for the skilled
R.A.G. : sorry to have to tell “ the cousin of Blank the
Australian explorer, and cousin of Blank, the scholar
and nephew of Blank, the naturalist,” that his verse is
crude and worthless. .. K.A.fl. : Smooth and uninterest-
mf-V ' : Don ’P n 'KS le a t verse. Get a big idea,
fill it with a big emotion, and rhyme it as Jehu drove—
furiously, but skilfully, without overturning the fierv
ehariot G.K. : (1) Doesn’t hit us hard enough. (2) There
wdl be a small, very small, div. one of these days
V.V. : You merely show the ideas of the average English
incornepoop.. ..Sante : Once again, Tub Bulletin doesn’t
look to the opinions-rehgious or otherwise—of its versi
, j . at seelns to be an undue proportion of verse
published is “ sceptical” in tone, it’s because the average
poet doesnt go m for “religiosity.” Shelley, Bvron,
Landor, Keats, Leigh Hunt, Matthew Arnold, Edward
r itzgerald, William Morris, James Thomson and Swin-
burne—to mention a few recent English poets—were all
open to grave criticism from an orthodox Christian point
of view.. .. Ekoro : Cardinal Moran’s failing is that he is
as a controversialist, careless and credulous, picking up
any ragged piece ot gossip and adopting it ex cathedra
without inquiry ; then he seems to have an idea that the
dogma of Papal infallibility extends to the Cardinalate,
and that he must never retract and never apolo-
S lse Sen Sen : You write as if Poetry were a
matter of getting your foot on the Muse’s neck, and
squeezing till her tongue came out Maonlander •
You should write hymns—nothing but hymns....
E-A. LV 0f all snobs tbe Scotch snob is the worst.” ’ But
then Thackeray had no experience of the Australian
snob. He mightn’t even have studied the Peruvian or
Eskimo or Arabian snob, or the snob of Timbuctoo
.. ..Max M. : (!) The “crime and vice” of Melbourne and
Sydney are nothing above the average. (2) If the clergy
called regularly upon and “reasoned sympathetically”
with every bad character in both cities it probably
wouldn t make a shred of difference.. ..Myles O’R ■
Letter received, with many thanks Mother Shiptoii :
Declined. Metre too bumpy... .Dim Dim : After reading
®lp. varn we reckoned Joe would be better dead...
Living : Why didn’t you transfer your domestic services
to someone who would have fed you more liberally? In
the present state of the market, no “ cook or general >r
needs to groan and starve under the tyranny of anybody.
O. ’ • , ru! ’“ul : Can’t read you. Get somebody to write
the thing out. ...W.L.O. : Dramatic verses; but we want
interest for readers as well Ahau : Not force enough.
.... Una : Did we return that to you once before ? Ku
Klux: Possibly “ Mac.”... .H.F. (Norseman): Present
opinion favorable Wanderer: You shout so loudly
that we can t hear anything Borash : Returned.
C.K. : Possibly part M.W. : Wants brevity and
savagery.’ Picanin : Not enough in it May:
Chiefly “penny dreadful.”.. .Bilby : Lacks interest,
bpinifex: Points too 5ma11.... Point Blank: Rather tame
tor 8.... .Egmont: It may be “ absolutely true,” but it
squares with a host of other stories turning on the same
naughty implication... J. T. M‘o.: “ Eastralia," straight-
? ut ’xT H ?V,l d be better than “ Estraland ” as a new name
for ILS.W W.G.V. : Tub Bulletin doesn’t print ob-
scenities—even when they are as funny as the item
sent Rennie P. : Interesting material, but not treated
brightJy enough.. ..Sigma : Too roughly put together....
K.U.G. : Pathos too thin and obvious.... Bill Adams:
Idea old Ren. K. : Reads too much like an invention.
....L.M.N. : It is not supposed that elephants have an
antipathy to white in itself; though, where a wild ele-
phant has a choice of persons to attack, he will by pre-
ference “ go for ” one wearing white clothes—presumably
on account of the better sight-mark H.S.K. : Lame
and tame....Waddy: Unskilfully handled James R. :
Under consideration Topsy : A weakly, weepful yarn.
....Arthur G. : Too rhetorical and self-conscious....
V.X. : A little sentiment; no melody... .W.F.S. : No
merit E. Parker: “A Fair Ex.” may just about
squeeze through. But in our heart we detest the thing
that just squeezes through X.Y.Z. : After all, that
cook yarn is mostly blanky. We get too much blankv....
U.N. A. : Improved ; but the idea is very trite Point
Blank : No Bulletin interest Max W. : P.N.D. tedious
as it stands. Would have some value if re-written briefly
and brutally Wal 0. :It is very dull. Try something
w.th a real live incident.... Manning: Worthless —and
you ought to know it V.H.G. : “ Oh, lam sad ! ” But
not in this paper Tydvil: Mustn’t desecrate lost
explorers’ bones by rhymes like that W.M. : No inter-
est. Give us interest or give us death.. .E .L. : Dull lines.
....Sassafras: Would not suit Tub Bulletin Silly
Billy : Futile to start such a discussion in face of the fact
that no marsupials are ruminants.... J. Scott: You don’t
give the name of the story you inquire about.. . .CJ.O.L. :
Not enough in it Oktis : “His last chance” is a bit
too “ swift.”... .Wilga : Only faintly funny... .Julie A.:
Interest feeble W. Pendarves : Graphic, but rather too
“high ” for print.. ..Kooka :No more bandicoot... . Star-
leigh: It has no central idea... .Barula : You are ob-
viously profiting by practice... J.C.O’R. : Hopelessly
involved and repetitive Jorrocks :It will be duly
returned C.F. B. : Affected and school-missish
A. A. : If there were not an Almighty He would have to be
invented to supply poetic themes. Three-quarters of the
minor poets are making a name by giving rhymed advice
to the Almighty... F. W.M. : Unsuitable.. ..J.R. : Not
enough in “Religion.” Lucian C. (Argentina): 82
closely-written pp. about the sectarian controversy 1 Is
that all you have to do in South America ?
W.M.W. : Ir referred to another man of same initials....
F.E.P.W. : Remittance sent to F.E.P.W., care of local
P.O P.B. : Why not put your name and address
on last sheet of MS., if you want it returned ?....
Tas : Some envious people this side say that, in
addition to Slowbart, it should be Yawnceston
—but that isn’t true G.P. : Hopeless, both in
subject and treatment. As you say, it “ might be
worse,” but not easily Wanderer (G.) : The poor-news-
paper-offiee humor vein has been almost completely
worked out Ebor : A very familiar and hackneyed
thought.,. .Revilo :If you don’t type your copy or write
plainly, y-ou can’t expect it to be coi gidered on its merits.
.. ..H.J. : “ Up-Hill ” has points— not enough Crow-
Eater: You show signs of humor; stick to prose
Henry: Nauseous drivel.... E.J. : Feeble little stam-
merings. .. .J.B. : “Requiem” wants thrill and con-
viction... .Seemef: Small, lank contribution with a
degenerate wrinkle in its forehead Maorilander :
Duller ...Broker: No bite.. ..Glenara : Too doggerelish.
....Bottle: Stick to the country papers... .Madrigal :
Lame and hopeless... .D.E. : Faint and echoish... .G.H. :
“Stay" not up....M.J. : Limp, bloodless verses....
Buck : Verse too rocky ; a couple of the points may d 0...
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
0. Reader : Phthisis too grim a subject for small jokes
... H.D. (Newc.) : Hardly enough in it... .C.S. (Kal.) :
No thanks. Do you take us for the Sunday Times’s Dead
Bird? AlfW. (Tas.): As suggestion.... Eric J. : Ditto.
.. ..P.8.8. : Will do as thumbnail sketch . ..J.E.E. : All
extremely venerable Kitty R. : One may do; the
other is distinctly of English origin.... Dorothy : Unsuit-
able. ... Unavailable : The Innocent, John Hen., J.A.P.,
Eric J., D.N.R., X.8.A., J. Dick, A. 8., M.S.P., N.E.Q.,
T.P.C., E.F.
Meyer Altson, latest winner of the triennial
Travelling Scholarship offered to students at the
Vic. Art Gallery, is younger than any of his five
predecessors. His brother, “ Abey” Altson, who
came second on the roll of prize-winners (after
John Longstaff), was 23 years of age at the time.
Meyer is now only half-past 21, though he has
been a persevering worker for six years. To
speak quite candidly, the picture that captured
the scholarship from seven or eight rival com
MEYER ALTSON, Winner of the Vic. National
Art Gallery Travelling Scholarship.
Photo . by Talma , Sydney & Melbourne .
petitors is plainly the work of a very youthful
artist. It shows much promise, but is crude in
all-round effect as compared with the “Breaking?
the News,” which sent student Longstaff to Europe
15 years ago. Meyer Altson, taking “A Leisure
xiour for his subject,, laid the scene in an artist’s
studio. The nude girl model is leisuring on a
couch, with a rug thrown over the lower half of
her nakedness, and an illustrated paper in her
hand. Iwo men talking “shop” are placed
behind the couch. Another fellow, further away is
presumably leaning lazily against the wall. *A
painter, seated in the foreground, has his back
turned to the outside.world, and doesn’t make it
quite clear that he is the painter of the picture
which stands on the easel near him. Perspective
is weak, drawing very good as a rule, coloring
unsatisfactory. The flesh tint of. the girl’s neck
and body, as far as it goes, seems rather inhuman
and her commonplace face looks as though she
bad bought its bloom from a chemist. One of the
critics at the back —the one who wears an air of
profound artistio thought—is the happiest figure
in the work. Meyer Altson will do something
much better than this ere his three years of
scholarship travel have expired. He is bright and
earnest, and, as his name implies, a Jew not
Christianised, but genuine. The love of art and
the genius for art are tempered with worldlv dis-
cretion in the Hebrew young man.


f? e Tu«ic.d SoUicr -A.)
3 Ntonth} for _
is, -yer
%oT so
o'tf|it™ **i S A^kx
m^sc'|
GODDARD —Oa thc 31«TDec«aW.
Kyabram, tb« wife of B. Goddard, *ea.
fiyabram Reformer) —a soil.
"Tocher: y wr nvv< '
ftp,lL , RTf.n». wc'ai *“ ">•■“• -
Qo<A4*rd x si**-
jjfy r ——— • : ~
/ ‘6«vl«'po (oJocit
is 4o
tGr
Ko-%4 S°^e
>^r<
’KlUlmMMMKmmMmimm'il
■»
Tite
A'^«(>Wter 4 •% HoV^t
i)e tWk v " He >/o»ce f?o)>k
Voice-
I \ >
b> V -
Concert op
N?oVen?e*>^
"tfjacf'Ve i?a/e «j?
oa'T’ op S\ cijfc^CirHe*
S\ co*|b»oed
A W€r-
* Kef
freeze,
lor 0 p
/"BUlbne
VC to *>« Conducted.
yXJjrouph VM. A by Sir |- forest"
X in Jv & feb
/Geo Obboj.tTon Red W|ll *K°
ft/BJ \tf Sfy tni *****
lilH ■
'* ’■“ • |
'• fe'f* t») > AB
4
HKi 'L - I
i ■ -
■fliillll mmmrni 111 :
Lr- «.;. v
O iHualwK'
Ptelirrfiiwy'
On "Hf« s^4« e - , “M r *5
Bengalee , joiiv uon S:s^s! er ’
k m Winer.4e>**•
*fc ai S c«sS '#?« ™ %
,AFtT Vcw ;
■\ Cr*se of Je CfaK '//
’ _A> wc c»"/ c 'i-V/
TH£ Gftt aT
OM
D' John fWs
iertt' OCC»r$
■St WKonP for
u > _\fter 4=
r n€l' l}€
•5 bvi tmr®
-fo a)sW n 'fkm
- & "KA.t'
V
NOftCt
IN This
FoR T«E fuT^Re
LENT IS TO oE-
pushed onto tv«6.
XMA3
IS ro rst EASTER
0-y o»»P»
_ _—, :
irje )'e. c^r'c^
v/il\ «quavl "lo "s<2
o\ »n
>rj nr7^e^
MOSTLY VICTORIAN.


\ | j / h v y /I
jpgUMliftllij
■
flu
" V A visiting foreigner, whose name
....... , ends in “ koff,’’ is shocked to find
that Australian farmers are not helped in their work by their womankind. “In
Europe, he says, “ farmers work more and harder, and, what is more, their entire
ami lies work very hard ; but the women here are not inclined to work in that way
course, sometimes, it must be very difficult for farmers to keep their women.”
Yes, in Europe women are sometimes harnessed to the-plough along with, the
donkey, the house-dog, and even the family goat. It is picturesque, it is angelic,
we R Australian women and dogs are not educated up to that at present
DESIGN IFOR MURAL DECORATION, DEDICATED TO THE
BAPTIST DENOMINATION (NO CHARGE).
*2f es ’ B ‘ r ’* am S*° say lam a Christian, and it doesn’t make
any difference who knows it. I don’t make a secret of it, though I don’t
SaSiZSfK,* “*• “ - *
“I attribute most of my success entirely to the fact that I have tried
to do what was right. .. .
‘‘Yes; this stand on the Sunday question has meant a good deal to
me ; I reckon I have lost about 30,000d015. by not racing on Sunday; but
l have the satisfaction of believing, and the extreme pleasure in feeling that
1 am right; and I know that many Christian people have been pleased with
mytestimony. But I didn’t do it for the good will of people. I have done
i because I believed it to be pleasing in the sight of God, and felt that I
wa@ domg right. If my action has met with the approval of Christian
prople, and seemed in any way praiseworthy, well and good. < . lam a
Baptist. ’—Major Taylor interviewed.
EQUALITY OF POSITION.
“ The Boers peed feel no humiliation. They have
bees offered an equality of position ” — Cbahbkrlaik
•An &Africa.
CARTOONLETS.


A. SAUNDERS
808 HANDSOME AND USEFUL PRESENTS WATCHES. 'CLOCKS,'
JEWELLERY, SILVERPLATE, LEATHER, AND OPTICAL GOOD \
©>.3:
m.
O 1-3 CM A - SAUN unites.
P H'Y 2V IIIET SET - Square Cut Classes, Chased and
6U n d Sll T? 1 '- La] e e Size, as above pattern, £4 ;
size smaller, in Round Glassware, £2 10s. Post Free. ’
T A. SAUNDERS.
Eadies First-class Pure Silver PURSE, beautifully Chased and
Embossed, 3m. x 2iu , £2 5s ; large size, 4iin. x 2in. £3 3s
In Silk-lined Case.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies' First-class Pure Solid Silver TUIt.ET SET !lS pmco
Silk-lined Case, Handsomely Chased and Oniiuneiitt-.1.
Post Free to any part of the Commonwealth.
, ‘n Beaut
£l5 10s.
A. SAUNDERS
Two Pure Solid Silver
CEUSH COMB, and MIEKOE, in Silk and Leathej
- Case, Double Catch, £5 10s. Handsome Present
_ if A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s SHAVING SET, Pure Solid Silver
40s, 50s, £B. £3 10s. A Nice Present.
SlO7. COMB, Pine Silver-mounted,
Real Tortoiseshell, 20s.
Similar, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s, 15s.
tip,
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver
EAU DE COLOGNE,
EuU Bize, 22s 6d ;
large size, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Six Silver-plated on Hard White Metal
SERVIETTE RINGS, inCase. 17s 6d.
AI Quality. >" Di xoll) London.
umnmnutmiinnnijiliiii
S »L»
Sljslcgg
I
Ladies’ Pure Silver CARDCASE, Chased and Embossed,
in Silk-lined Case, 255, with Monogram.
jo JAM ard Two BIT ITER, Beautifully Chased,
>r Electro-plated on White Metal Eirst-clnss Quality,
u O'\o Qlu A f\c* • O ,1.. 1 A.. i .i_ /• 1 « ...
C.-Two
Pure Silver r tIJ
15s, 20s, 255, 3Js, 355, 40s ; 2 only, 10s, 12s Cd. 15s, 'its"
All in silk-lined cases.
psffiassf#
1&233&&
S£2£Q&'i
ICtl'vOA i
m.
1§
30
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Pure Solid Silver Top VVlnte (Jut Glass PUI'P
10s, 15s, 20s, 255. ”
A. BATJNDEBS.
CHL nth S k ET ’i A1 e* ti , uality ’ Pure Silver on White Metal.
Other Similar Styles, 8 Pieces, 10s 6d, 12s 6<l 15s 20s.
All in Silk-lined Cases. * *
25a.
_ A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR BRUSH, Pure Silver, in Silk-lined Case, 30a.
A Handsome Eirst-class Article.
V ’.'T-V-
A. SAUNDERS.
_ SALTS, Pure Silver-mounted,
fancy Cut Glass, in Silk-lined Case, 15s 6d I
White Cut Glass, 21s,
A. SAUNDERS.
fore Silver CLOTH or HAT BRUSIL
15s, 17s 6d, 20s.
A. SAILS L-liliS.
Pu; e silvtr
THIMBLES,
Gold-mounted, 43 C<L
Ollier ftyles,
Is 6d, 2s lid, and 8s 6d.
Wa. saunters.
Ladies'
, HAIR BRUSH.
*' Pure Silver, Chained,* ,
20s, 255,-30s.
Splendid Value.
Cheaper Lines, »■
iOs and 12s 6d. V
HAT PINS, Any Initial.
Pure Solid Silver, Is tid
Stone Set. 3s 6d, 4s fid.
Silver-mounted KNUb'ii EESTS
in Silk-lined Case, 15s 6d;
size, 21s.
CAKE or DESSERT KNIVES and PORKS, Handsomely Carved Ivoiy
Handles, in Silk and Velvet-lined Case, £4 10s. A Handsome Present.
Six PORKS only, 12s 6d, 16s 6d, 20s, 255, 80s, Sss.
T _. . A. SAUNDERS.
iadies or Gent, s TraveUmg DRESSING CASE, in'Morocco or Russian
Leathei. Nicely Lined, 30*. Similar Styles, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255, £2, £5
if 1 ■'?
w/m
S 4 SOCKET BOOK. All Improvements, Silver-mounted,
“ abow ’ 103 “ J "«£ extra Shield, 12s 6d. Initials Nicely Chafed, Is Extra!
Other Styles, 15s, 20s, 255, 80s. A Nice Present,
A. SAUNDERS.
CHILD’ 8 CUP, Pure Silver-
mounted and Nursery Rhyme,
10s 6d. Post Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies' PURSE and CARDCASE,
Crocodile Leather,
Silver-mounted, 5s 6d ;
with Shield Centre, 7s 6d.
Pure Silver-mounted Lizard Skin
PURSE, 7s 6d, 12s 6d, and 15s.
•XXX •
£7v
- .
:-:a
Iwo Gent.’e Solid Silver HAIR BRUSHES
and COMB,
Silk-lined Cuse, £3, £3 10s.
r
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies' Latest PURSE and WALLET,
with Strap, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
m
&
tetoL-DJITOT.-F-. .TUXTP^ji
Child's SPOON, Solid SUver, V
Very Latest and Newest Design?.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted
PIN CUSHION,
7s 6d.
Pure Silver- mounted
iAdies’ COiIPANIuN, 18s 6d
smaller, 15s 6d.
A
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER AND SILVERSMITH
809, 811, 813, 815. 817 GEQRGE-STREET SYDNEY
NBAKLY OPPOSITE REDFERN RAILWAY STATION. ’ I-* I VC. 1 ,


TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SCRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
66
D.C
L
K
V
WH
S
<3-0 TO HELL-
I(JOLANI) for Pretty Stamps, bub
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hageo,
FOREIGrTST STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
A SIMILE AND A MORAL.—“What the
dustman is to the dwelling in which we live, that
Hunyadi Janos is to the local habitation of the
human spirit.” Thus, writes a well-known
medical writer.*
Mr. SAMUEL WORMLEY, Florin, Pa.,
writes :
“I have used Jayne’s Expectorant for ASTHMA and
for SEVERE COLDS, and CANNOT FIND WORDS
STRONG ENOUGH to recommend it.”
To rheumatic sufferers, and people in general:
Australian Boards-of-llealth might as well take up the
interesting question of the “ Dr. Deimel Underwear,”
lately introduced to this market by Rochussen Bros., of
Melbourne. Dr. Deimel and his linen-mesh garments
first came into notice some three or four years ago, and it is
claimed that they have already shaken the doctrine of wool
under-clothing to its foundation in America and England.
The Deimelites contend that whereas linen, in itself, was
always recognised as the best of materials forunderwear—
better than wool if it could be woven into a porous fabric
—the manufacturing difficulty prevented it from taking
its proper place next to the skin, until Dr. Deimel, “ after
exhaustive trials, succeeded in obtaining a yarn which,
after being twisted into a composite thread, could be
knit by special machines, into a uniformly porous and
pliable fabric of unrivalled durability.” Deimel, anyhow,
has created a yarn which is very persuasive, on paper.
Wool, he argues, is the right material for outer clothing,
on account of its slow conducting and absorbing power,
and the wrong thing for underwear, because it obstructs
the evaporation of moisture from the skin. Fabrics
intended for absorbing moisture—towels and handker-
chiefs—are made of flax. In the power of evaporating
moisture flax comes first. It will dry much quicker tham
wool, cotton, or silk. But, for underwear purposes, the
garment flax, i.e., linen, must be made porous, so that
the air contained in its meshes, becoming warmed by ths
heat of the body, will prevent the cold feeling that one
gets from a close-woven linen shirt. The Deimel Under-
wear, then, is put forward as being the best for all
seasons. Also, notwithstanding than the price of vest
and pants is 10s. for each garment, the local apostle of
Deimelism—Mr. Rochussen, aforesaid—alleges that these
linen-mesh garments are infinitely cheaper than cotton
and merino because they will last for ten years. They
haven’t been manufactured for ten or even 5 years as yet,
therefore this allegation is mainly prophetic. Neverthe-
less, their durability is undoubted, and their other virtues
have been freely testified to by many people. Judd,
M.D., lecturing in New York, declared that he ceased
to be a martyr to rheumatism and never caught cold any
more after putting himself into “Deimels.” The new
theory is worthy of attention from rheumatical subjects
in particular and reasonable mortals in geneial.*
Amongst the calendars for 1903, that issued bj
the American Tobacco Co. of Australasia (278-181,
Castlereagh St, Sydney) and devoted to advertisement of
the already famous Cameo Cigarettes, is notable f#r
elegant simplicity of design and excellence of exeeuti«« *
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirt*
are highly recommended.
331-per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Applicat ion.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS BRISBANE,
At Poverty Point.
The Bulletin’s London correspondent: •* If the vocal-
istic tutors of ‘ Down Under’would give up cultivating
mythical Melbas and ‘ cronk ’ Crossleys and go in for
developing lion comiques, character comedians, etc it
would be wiser and more profitable. Anyone is heard’at
the London ‘ halls ’ once a week by the managers, without
the audience. If successful, billed as an ‘ extra turn ’
the aspiiant flutters at night when an engagement
depends on his song and style. The ‘ halls ’ jump at
a good man or woman. Finally, Dan Leno gets £l5O and
George Robey £l3O. This is real money, not mere talk.”
An artist who lately supported a certain famous per-
foimer is famed for the good opinion he has of himself
Some kind friends thought to “ take a rise out of” him’
and went to some trouble in proving that the singer had
evinced an extraordinary liking for him. Their victim
waited for them to finish, and then solemnly drawled
out:—“Well, you quite surprise me. In Sydney she
called me a silly fool and in Melbourne a damned ass.”
Australian managers have to support a dreadful
number of imported “ scraggs.” The clever comedian
generally has a wife who doesn’t even possess the merit
of being beautiful. On the other hand, the favorite
comedienne carries round with her, as often as not, a
husband who is not the least bit funny as a comedian.
Unfortunately the “ encumbrance ” of either sex is not
content to draw a salary for keeping off the board.
S.A. has some sporting clergymen, who are fond of
moderate whisky and a rubber of whist; several who
attend the theatre on slight provocation, and (a few
years back) one who went racing and had his occasional
sov. on the tote. But a new line has been opened up by
the Port Augusta cleric who played Romeo to the lpcal
tragedienne’s Juliet.
“ P.A.L.” : Re Kyrle Bellew as a good advertiser. On
going to a Melbourne theatre to write a paragraph about
the performances as reporter for the local Daily
Telegraph, it was his custom to take a front seat in the
D.C., place a heap of “ copy ’’-paper on his knee, and
scribble furiously every three minutes. When he was
appointed fourth mate on board an Australian liner, he
immediately donned the uniform and paraded Oollins-st.
for the whole afternoon.
Oinquevalli, speaking of Rickards’ show in Melbourne
what time he was appearing there, remarked that Willie
and Charlie Schenk, the “head-balancers,” were abso-
lutely the most wonderful performers in their line whom
he (Cinque.) had ever met or heard of. Uniil he saw the
work of the Schenks he didn’t think it could be done
with such grace and apparent ease. Yet Australian
audiences are disposed to accept the said Willie and
Charlie as a mere “ good turn ’’—very clever, but nothing
extraordinary. Even a European reputation when
known to be genuine, is apt to be underrated in "•
Australia, while local talent is almost invariably belittled
on account of its local training. The young performers
who have grown up with Fitzgeralds’ Circus are probably
unsurpassable as equestrians and all-round athletes.
They can do a “jockey act,” a “ cycle whizz,” or what
not in brilliant style, but the Public hereabouts never
thinks of “starring” those versatile artists in its own
Australian estimation.
Old Alberto Zelman, the exquisitely tailored and
barbered musician fainilar to Melb. hlockites, has just
completed the composition ot a new Mass, which is likely
to be given a show at one of the big city churches shortly.
Zelman is much given to the composition of R.C.
church music, flavored with a characteristic Italian
allowance of florid melody that would do just as well
for opera. His work is generally done at the very
last moment. A year ago, Zelman was commis-
sioned by Glen’s to write an “ Ave Maria” for a
proposed Amy Castles’ souvenir book. The night
before the book was to be sent to the
printer, son Bertie, the violinist, arrived
home, and woke the old man up at
midnight to tell him Ihe composition
was required at once. Zelman had
forgotten all about his bargain, but
got up, arrayed himself in his most
gorgeous garments, combed his
silky beard and hair, and set to
work. Three hours later the new
“Ave Maria’’was ready. But,
alas ! through some hitch, the
Amy Castles souvenir never
came out as such, and Zel-
man’s melody was pub-
lished later on with a
dedication to another
soprano.
Ajax, the contor-
tionist, an occasional
performer with Fitz-
geralds’ Circus during
the last few years, has
sold his Melb. pub., at a
profit, and is going to
America under professional
engagement. Little Ajax
has not visibly aged since
the Fitz’s first imported him
as one of the Eclair Bros.
Contorting seems to agree
with him ; and there’s good
money in it for a first-class
man.
“T.D.”: The audacity of
the deadhead. 1 watched
three of them at a Melb.
theatre t’other night. They
said the manager had in-
structed them to ask for
seats in the front row of the
circle, near the middle. Three
seats were vacant, these being
reserved by a leading hotel, but
the deadheads insisted upon
their “ rights,” and threatened to
appeal to the boss because they
were put in the second row. When
the curtain rose they proceeded to
jump the unoccupied seats, but were
intercepted by three people who had
bought the seats. More expostulation
and general disturbance of the dress-circle
for five minutes followed, at the eml of which time the
manager fortunately arrived and took his deadhead
friends round to a box, where they luxuriated and
preened themselves haughtily for the rest of the evening,
and no doubt considered tnemselves much better than
the casual people who paid for seats.
Vic. Public Works Secretary Martin was a prominent
amateur actor in Melbourne in the good old days when
half the populace was trying to emulate G. V. Brooke and
Charles Kean. As such, he had the run of the stage
entrances, and had one or two funny experiences. Once,
when Willie Edouin, since a big man in London, was
playing the part of a sailor-bo.v in correct marine rig,
Martin found the youthful alleged tar peeping at the
audience t trough the usual hole in the curtain before it
rose. With a ‘Ship ahoy!” Martin playfully smacked
him in a convenient spot. He was flabbergasted, however,
to see Julia Matthews turn round, and, rubbing the
assaulted part, exclaim, “Now, then ! mind what you’re
up to." Mr. Martin had forgotten that there were two
sailor-boys in that play, and that the fair Julia was one
of them.
The drama in Melbourne suburbs—a preparatory school
for the students of William Anderson and Bland Holt:
"The Greatest Sight of the Year
Will be produced for the children of this School
THIS AFTERNOON
With a new startling Entertainment for the first time
and never before showing to the children of this State
PANSY
_ THE GIRL DETECTVE
Which will be given on a large scale of the most elaborate
completeness with entirely new scenery, of which the
notable features will be an extraordinarily realistic repre-
sentation of the child wonder.
Seen e 1 The old market. Pansy on her wav to school.
Ihe villians planning to take the gold of Fanner Jack,
overheard by Pansy. Scene 2.—The farmer's house, the
villians taking the riches, watched by Pansy. Scene 3 a
street in London. The villians blame a poor old man for
stealing the treasure. Pansy following the bad villians.
Scene 4.—The poor old man in prison. The villians caught
in their own _ trap. _ The poor old man at liberty once
again. The villian in prison with his best friends. The
worrying rats. Scene s.—The garden at farmer Jack’s,
rewarding little Pansy for her smartness and clever
works.
One of the greatest sights ever seen. Never to be for-
gotten. Everything performed as natural as life.
Admission—All Classes Id. Stalls 2d Adults 3.”
“ E.F.” ; The fiction that the obviously-Cockney Maud
Hobson was born at Toorak or Footscray, or some other
Melbourne district, originated in the fact that Melba took
her professional name from her native city When
Melbas European celebrity was in its earliest stage, an
English lady with a beautiful voice came, to Melbourne
" k u er husband > and took a house in the Elsternwick
suburb. She, copying Melba, presently appeared as a
public singer under the name of Marie Elster. The
origin of her professional title was widely paragraphed in
Australian papers, and subsequently in English papers
after she had gone ’Orae and become a prima
donna in a travelling opera co. Just about that
time Williamson and Musgrove imported the “Gaiety
Girl” co., with Maud Hobson, Grace Palotta, Blanche
Massey, Decima Moore, and other pretty women in the
crowd. As soon as the names of the ‘forthcoming co.
were cabled to Australia, a watchful paragraphist seized
upon the notion that Maud Hobson was a native of
Melbourne who had taken her stage name from Hobson’s
Bay. On the arrival of the co. at Sydney an interviewer
questioned fair Maud as to her Hobson’s Bay origin, and
she, being already advised of the fable, supported it.
Perhaps the stage-manager gave the interesting visitor
her cue. Anyway, Maud was ready with a cram. She
said she had been born in Melbourne, but her
parents took her to England when she was a
child ; therefore she didn’t remember anything
about her birthplace. La belle Hobson, as a matter of
fact, is a Cockney of Cockneys. When she first joined the
Gaiety Theatre “chorus” (in which she played silent
leg-parts for years ere she came out as an actress) she was
said to be a distant relative of John Hollingshed, the
manager. Perhaps she was, or, more likely, she wasn’t.
Inasmuch as she entered the Gaiety chorus under the
commonplace name of Hobson (long before “ Melba ”*nd
“ Elster” had been adopted as professional titles) it seems
probable that that was her real parental name.
THE RISE O’? PATRICK
FAT.
JOHN CHINAMAN (chaffed about
having christened his son Plecceman-Patrick): “My boy,
grow up stlong, wantec be pl-Patlick; he
wantee go into seven shillin' a day—Patlick; he
wantee boss public'ouse-Patlick. All'll Patlick."
George Moore's portrait (in “Mike Fletcher ”) of Peggy
Pryde : “She was followed by the joyous Peggy Pryde
(sweet minx), the soul and voice of the small back streets.
Screwing up her winsome, comical face, drawling a word
here, accentuating a word there, she evoked in an illusive
moment the washing day, the quarrel with the mother-
in law (who wanted to sleep in the house), tea-time, and
the trip to the seaside, with all its concomitant adven-
tures amid bugs and landladies. With an accent, with a
gesture, she recalled in a moment a phase of life, creating
pictures vivid as they were transitory, but endowing
each with the charm of the best and most highly-finished
works of the Dutch masters."
The most amusing story of the Nance O’Neil *' fiasco ■
—as the London newspapers called it, for want of a
newer word—came from a member of the co. in a letter
to an Australian friend : “ Rankin engaged 90 supers,
hordes of iron-workers, carpenters, &c., and decided to
do ‘ Elizabeth ’ on the smartest American principles.
-None except the stage hands and the smiling band were
paid. The poor idiots—the actors—were not even
approached by M'Kee at any period of the game. On the
fourth night of ‘ Elizabeth,’ during the first act, a hoarse
voice called out from the lime room : ‘Take off those
blanky limes ! ’ It was the cry of the contractor for the
limes, who hadn t received a bean. Some of the supers
said, ‘ \Y hat’s up with the illuminations?’ and when they
heard there was no stuff coming they began to drop
pieces of heavy armor during quiet scenes, and kick
against braces. We played the second act in st mi-dark-
ness, and the climax came before the curtain rose on the
throne-room scene, where Rankin had contracted to have
over 100 people on the stage. The noble 100 said : “We
want our little bit,” but they didn’t get it. Then they
went up in a body to their dressing-rooms, the men
amusing themselves by playing egg-in-the-hat with tin
helmets and swapping wigs with the girls. You
can imagine how much ginger Nance put into
the line, ‘ God’s wrath ! hut this is too much ! ’
y hen she called out ‘ What ho 1 my guards ! ’
instead of 12 guards coming on in military style, the Lord
Chamberlain bolted on and tried to make himself look 3
or 4, and the house laughed heartily. Fox, the wig-
maker, got news of the smash and sent down to seize the
wigs from off the heads of the actors, and I had to beg to
be allowed to wear mine 2 minutes longer whilst I
declared war against England. After the declaration a
brawny hand stretched out to scalp me before I had done
backing off the stage. Ye gods ! Then came the children
of Israel from the costumiers, Levy, Nathan and Cos.,
who had the honor of supplying the dresses. All our
energy and alertness were required to save our bodies
being despoiled of our trumpery finery before we were
through with the play. One youth, who had made
himself very conspicuous, was named Isaac, and his
entreaties for me to take off my tights were too laughable
for words. He followed me to my dressing-room, and for
the first time in my life I was graced with the services of
a dresser, at no expense—and a Jew, too.”
The true story of an Australian actor who went to
America with his wife. They were both young and
capable, but after filling a few casual dramatic engage-
ments they recognised, in a certain cold February, that
the best chance lay on the varie y stage. So the Aus-
tralian interviewed a gaunt, hurried, dyspeptic, cigar-
stained potentate who runs many variety shows, and
made propositions. The dyspeptic one coughed in the
bleak February air, and rushed at him, and said : “Just
let me see you and your wife do a sketch, an’ I’ll tell you
if we can do business.” “ Where ? ” said the Australian.
“Well, just you hire a small theatre, and I’ll
be there to see you do the sketch—say next
Wednesday, 11 o’clock, tell me where, good-day*,”
and the dyspeptic one fled back to business. The Aus-
tralian stood aghast at the idea of hiring a theatre
to play for half-an-hour to an audience of one ; then he
set his jaw* firmly and walked out into the February
slush. He found a small theatre, and notified the
manager, and did a few sketches in the bleak, raw
February air, with an audience of one, who hadn’t even
spoken to them, dimly visible on a back seat. When it
was over the Australian went round to interview the dim
figure and ask if he was satisfied, and found it wasn’t
the manager, but the negro caretaker of the theatre. The
manager had never turned up at all. The Australian went,
full of rage, into the February gloom and interviewed the
manager. “Look here,” said the cigar-stained one;
“ I’m real sorry, but couldn’t get raound. I’ll be raound
at that theatre next Tuesday cert’n, if you’ll do the
sketch again.” “Isn’t this rather an expensive way of
doing things?” said the Australian, beginning to look like
a man who might wreck the office at any moment.
“And a little precarious? You mightn’t be there and
we might play to the nigger again.” “That’s so,” said
the manager; “look here, just you fetch your wife
raound naow.” The Australian fetched his wife, and the
manager led them through six or eight Streets, and half-
a-mile of February blast to a music shop, at the back of
which was a small room with a sort of stage. There in
the half-light and the cold they did two or three items
and the manager applauded. My boy,” he said when it
was over, “it’s real good. Your wife’s as pretty as a
picture, too, and darned clever. Just you come daown
day after to-morrow, and we’ll settle things.’’ There was
a February snowstorm on the day after "to-morrow, hut
the Australian put on his bigsrest overcoat and his
seven-league boots and went “daown,” and was wel-
comed effusively. “I’m glad to see you,” said the
manager ; “ real glad. I’ve got the agreement all ready.
You can start a five weeks’ season next September.”
“ When ? ” “ Next September,” said the manager briskly.
“Everything’s filled up till then, but I’ll place you in
September for sure.” The Australian had an interval of
unconsciousness, and when he recovered he was at the
Shipping-office booking two passages for Australia. To
this day he can’t remember whether he crowded the
manager up the chimney before leaving or only put him
in the spittoon, but he hopes he put him up the chimney.
An ingrained desire to play showy tricks in his
accompaniments is the fatal failing of one crack
pianist, and has cost him numerous big engagements.
One time the key-thumper was touring, as accom-
panist, with a visiting star, and when she was
singing a difficult cadenza the clever pianist-man pur-
posely struck a top note half a tone too high. The lady
was ruffled quite out of her usual placidity, and demanded
an explanation. “ Well,” replied the accompanist, “it’s
a most difficult passage, and I wanted to see if you
could do it when I played wrong. It was a test only.”
But the artist slapped his face, told him he was no
musician—certainly not enough to “test” her- and sent
him about his business. Since then the accompanist has
been content to keep any similar pranks for the question-
able benefit of nervous young singers who are trying to
get a footing in the profession.
The planters’ Polynesian pets are taking to the theatre
in Queensland. two time-expired Tannas,
with their “ Marys," occupied dress-circle seats at
Rickards’ Brisbane theatre. They sat the show through
with absolute stolidity and manifested interest only when
one of the “ White Marys ” on the stage shook a very
spry leg.
James Anderson, the terrible old-school tragedian who
lifted up his voice in Australia years ago, gets an un-
flattering mention in Herman Merivale’s book of remini-
scences. Speaking of a dinner-party at Thackeray’s
house, Merivale says : “ It must have been on the same
evening that I expressed some youthful admiration of
James Anderson’s performance of Orlando. He was a
very handsome man, but a real ‘ roarer.’ Thackeray
beamed at me at once in his dear old way, and quickly
laughed. *At last,’ he said, ‘ I have seen a boy who
admires James Anderson. I felt I must, some day.’"
And yet there is somebody just now employed in writing
a book—a history—of that same roarful Jimmy Anderson.
There is a good deal of George Rignold about Henry
Lee in all respects. Right down to the gout, in fact.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance
is solicited.
The Closed Roads Swindle.
Amid all the retrenchment of Victorian publi*
servants and the hustling after odd half-pennies
in out-of-the-way corners, nobody seems to have
noticed that that impecunious State is at present
being, and has for many years past been, swindled
out of thousands of pounds yearly by the very
wealthiest of its citizens. Private M’s.P. have
often tackled the Closed Roads question, and
have as often been blocked, but no Govern-
ment has ever yet raised the necessary courage
to fight the greedy landowners who rob
the people. _ The State is mapped out in
rectangles, with a road at eveiy mile ; and
omitting altogether the dry North and North-
West, there are, at a very moderate computation,
in N., E. and S. Gippsland, the central province,
and the W. and S.W. country, at least 48,000
miles of as yet unused roads which the owners of
the adjacent property have the use of without fee
or reward. Taking these roads as one chain wide
all round—some of the main arteries of the future
run up to 3 chains, others are 1^ —there is here an
aggregate area of GOOsq. miles, or 384,000 acres !
(A typical instance Rupert Clarke’s Green
Hill run. near Romsey, encloses over 200 acres of
such public land.) These thousands of acres
would have fed many “starvers” from the drought
country away back ;in fact, they are so feeding
them—and the adjacent landowners are getting
up to 255. and 275. 6d. an acre per year for fatten-
ing these starvers on land which doesn’t belong
to them and for which they pay not one farthing
of rent to its owner—the State. Here is a
sum of perhaps £50,000 a year, out of which the
btate, through its paid servants the Treasurer and
the M.’sP., is being diddled by those who can well
afford to refrain from such petty larceny. Talk
about the beam of the landowners and the mote of
the civil servants, it isn’t a beam—it’s a whole
timber-yard!
-
“ The Other Bounder! ”
A Sydney paper’s London correspondent says
the mutual hatred of English and Germans is
inexplicable. The truly inexplicable thing would
be their friendship, if it ever existed. Of course,
the royal houses are allied to save their joint necks
and aid the common cause of monarchy against ris-
ing democracy. “ Reasons of State ” unite the two
nations for such ends as bullying little Venezuela.
But, essentially speaking, England hates Germany,
and Germany loathes England. Naturally enough,
Germany has decided that colonial expansion is
necessary to her greatness—it may be to her
existence ; and when, late in the piratical day,
she endeavors to expand, she finds Britain
sprawling over the map of the world, blocking
every desirable path. The war of commerce
is as keen a contest as any ever fought; and
England’s Manchester - men and Germany’s
Manchester-men are, even now at death-
grips. Germany successfully attacks England’s
commercial supremacy because, as Prof. Dewar
told the Royal Association, German technical
brains are a generation ahead of English technical
brains. The German middle-classes, still retain-
ing their primitive idyllic strain, still under the
domination of conscience, count the smothering
of the little Boer nations cause for a Holy War.
Trade rivals, hostile from patriotic bias, English
and Germans are bitter foes because sprung from
the same racial stalk. They hate one another like
brothers. They have similar zeal, and similar
defects. The typical Englishman and the typical
German, as met on the highway of are
both insufferable bounders ; and one holds the
mirror to the other. The cold insolence of the
English official is surpassed only by the swagger-
ing: insolence of the German official. Each moves
as if he owns the earth—until he meets the other
bounder who claims the universe, and detests him.
Germany is bumptious, aggressive Cain ; England
is sneering, self-satisfied Abel. Perhaps each
will slay the other at Armageddon.


HOW TO KEEP COOL.
We strongly recommend all who suffer
from the heat to add a few drops of Condv’a
Fluid to the Daily Bath or Foot Bath J
A Condy’s Fluid Bath imparts a most
delightful sensation of coolness, freshness
and purity, it invigorates the body and
brace: the nerves. The strengthening and
ooolinj effects are Simply Magical. Tired
or Tender feet are instantly relieved. Book
bottle contains full directions.
•Condy’s Fluid is sold by all Chemists
throughout the British Empire, Beware
or substitutes. Insist on having li Condy’s
Fluid.' 1 'Condv & Mitchell, of London,
England., are the onlv Makers and their
name an d address is at foot of label.
AUSTRALIAN STAMPS
Bought, Sold & Exchanged.
Gibbons’ Philatelic Albums
*nd all requirements. Price lists gratis.
J. H. SMYTH & CO.,
88 KING ST., SYDNEY.
268 Collins st. ( Molbourno.
Before booking your Steam shin
passage write for Traveller?
Wazette & Sailing List, with map.
THOS. COOK & SON,
4 Hunter-et, Sydney.
SPECTACLES
i»
—FOR—
DEFECTIVE
VISION. t„
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to an
„„ any ad-
structions and Price List, our marvellOTsly-i^curat*
and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURING Patent
By its use you can Test your own skrht and h
termine for yourself the style and q£y“ the
glasses you may need. Write for it to- * “
A. BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
—next A.J.S. Ra»h-
“Don’t shout”
I hear you. 1 can hear now
as well as anybody.
How?" Oh some-
thing new— The Wilson.'
Common-sense Ear-
Drum. I’ve a pair in my
ears now. you can't see them
-they're invisible. I wouldn’t
k know I bad them in
only that I hear all right.”
.The Wilson Ear-Drum ts
really a substitute for the
..working parts of the
natural ear. Has no
1
wire. Invisible. «uy to ad
just, comfortable Totally
m n different from any other dp-
L '**crtptlve pamphlet sent upon request |
229-231 Collin* M., HelD^
POLITICAL
POINTS
Discussion of the N.S.W. Licensing Act
Amendment Bill re-emphasises that there is only
»ne true liquor reform —a State monopoly of the
retailing of alcoholic liquors.
Thus a N.S.W. country paper:—
The Liberal party, it is stated, will send two speakers
nto every electorate during the recess. We trust they
Will send one treasurer also to pay up accounts incurred
at the last State election.
Victorian Treasurer Shiels hopes to cut
another £60,000 off Old Age Pensions this year,
and save a general land-tax, which would
fall on the valuable and now exempt ground
values of Melbourne, Ballarat, Bendigo, and
Geelong.
The Bulletin hears from a big mining
authority in S’Africa that “the difficulty in
getting labor ” for the mines is a fake. Cohen
does not want to work the mines at anything like
their full capacity until the question of war taxa-
tion is settled ; he wishes to show as poor a mouth
as possible until then.
N.S.W. old-age pension items :—A healthy
man of 65 loses a Corporation billet, and applies
for old-age pension. Refused because he had
earned £52 during the past year. He is now
qualifying by a spell in Liverpool Asylum. A
man (72) and his housekeeper (75) refused “be-
cause they are living in adultery.”
The “ pin-prickery ” of Brisbane Courier
against the Philp Government is really a blessing
in disguise to the Continuous Ministry. Now
that Granny Courier begins to wallop its Joss
the average man commences to surmise that the
Joss must have shown a bit of backbone. So the
.Boodlewraith scores again. What luck it has !
A mild recrudescence of the Single-tax
idea has appeared of late in Sydney. But the
time is ill-chosen.,, It is only necessary to go and
look at the land now to feel badly discouraged
about the prospect of increasing the land-tax ten-
fold—and that is about what the Single-tax idea
amounts to. The land is a sore subject in Aus-
tralia these days.
THE FESTIVAL SEASON.
[?] Bill, ish that the moon or a street lamp! "
[?] ; wait till I feel if there'sh a posht under it."
Westralian law prohibits any person or
corporation holding over 75,000 acres of land under
timber-lease. The Upper House lately tried to
abolish this regulation, and when Premier James
defeated its little wile one IVf. Ti O wrote i
One would almost think that at a time like the present
when there are so many unemployed, the Government
would do anything to assist an enterprise which absorbs
so much labor.
How pathetic the desire of the M.L.C. all over
Australia to help the unemployed by giving
away extra large areas of State land to syndi-
cates !
Nothing has been heard lately of the
contemplated journey of Premier Jenkins to Eng-
land in the interest of the transcontinental railway
to Port Darwin. He is most anxious to get the
scheme taken up by Bull, but will not risk the
trip unless he is sure of success, which alone would
excuse the expenditure in the eyes of Parliament.
The N, S. YV 'Taxdodgers’ Union announces
that its ideas of State Constitutional reform
include an elective and unpaid Upper House.
As a Council elected on the principle of one adult
one vote would be only the Assembly over again,
the Taxdodgers doubtless propose a property-
elected Council. N.S.W. won’t bite the hook
with that worm on it while the horrible example
of Victoria is at its door. The proposal only
lowers its opinion of the Taxdodgers’ intelligence.
Launceston (Tas.) Examiner publishes in
all seriousness a letter written by Ahmed Some-
body from Rangoon (Buramhj to the effect that
Ghat Serarg Ruffee Deen and other local
characters are shocked at the White Australia
policy, and that somebody there has decided that
after the 40 tons of Australian coat now on hand
are used up, no more will be ordered. Forty
tons ! We are a “ busted ” community !
The S’Afncan “National Scouts,” who
ratted at the close of the late war, and helped to
hunt down the Alfreds, Herewards, Bruces, and
the Wallaces of their race, aren’t allowed inside
their churches now by the decent Boers, and pro-
pose, it is cabled, to start a church of their own.
the church of St. Judas Iscariot, no doubt—or St.
Gehazi.
The vaunted Cobden Club—the head and
centre of the Freetrade theory in England—
consists of 475 members, though it makes as much
row as if it consisted of thousands. There are 233
British members or members residing in Britain,
who (presumably) really believe in Freetrade, and
242 foreigners who whoop Britain on to Freetrade
because it is a payable foolishness for the
foreigner. Thus, more than half the club now
consists of foreigners, who find that Freetrade
makes John Bull a profitable ass, and who want
to encourage him in being a profitable ass.
Failing to foist on the Commonwealth an
Imperialistic ornamental Governor-General, Great
Britain will, it is almost certain, try next an
imperialistic hard-worker, like Milner or Cromer.
The new man will not go in for show so much as
for driving imperial nails into the coffin of demo-
cracy. When such a man plays his first trick, it
will be necessary for Australia to speak as em-
phatically as in respect to showmen. Indeed,
silly showmanry, tawdry and gawky as it was
Hopetoun’s ambition to make it, was not nearly
so dangerous a menace to the Commonwealth’s
Republican future as will be the strenuous in-
fluence of a man of the Cromer or Milner pattern.
There can now be no doubt that a strong
move is on foot in Victoria to hand the railways
over to “ private enterprise.” The
Tory press of the State has long
been busily inflaming the public
mind against the State manage-
ment of the lines, and from time
to time quiet suggestions have
been dropped that it would be far
better if they were run by a private
firm. Naturally, a Tory Govern-
ment like Irvine’s leans vigorously
in the direction of “ private enter-
prise,” and at length Minister Bent
has revealed the true sentiments of
the Ministry. He has begun to
farm-out the work of maintaining
the permanent way to contractors.
One contract has been let, and
Bent’s “ boosting-up ” of the bar-
gain is significant. He trumpets it
forth that he is getting work done
by contract for ,£750 which pre-
viously cost the department £lOl7
a year. The saving of £267 will
not go far in making up for the
extra supervision that will be
needed, and then there is the ques-
tion of costs in case of accidents.
It is almost certain that under a
contract system the work will be
slummed.” Under the present
system there is only the laziness of
the men to be watched, but under
any system of contract there is
also the greed of the contractor to
be reckoned with. Bent further
declares that he intends in future
contracts of the kind to knock out
'"'' n for a minimum wage
of ?•» a day.
There are very few circum-
stances out of which Dry Dog Reid
won’t make a little political capital.
I he other day he invaded Bombala
and made a bid for the vote of that
by bitterly cursing the
O bulliyan, the most frantic rail-
way builder N.S.W. has had for
years, for not building another rail-
way—to Bombala, of course In
almost every town that G. H. Reid
rvQ l n- ® ®P eaks severely about
O bullivan for not building two or
three railways to it, though he
never promises that he will build
the lines himself should the chance
oome his way, or explains why he failed to
do. so during his five years of office. If Bonibala
becomes the Federal capital (G. H. Reid doesn’t
promise to vote for it as the Federal capital) it
will doubtless get its line promptly. Otherwise
the fact stands in the way that the line which now
stops short at Cooma involves N.S.W. alreadv i™
a loss of £42,000 a year and is, bar one,’the worst-
pying line in the State If the great Bibbenluke
estate were resumed and cut up, then the extension
3 U , M ?u y ’ p nd n f ° th £ r estates were resumed and
cut up the Goulburn-Cooma line would pay • but
Reid was in office five years and didn’i cut up
° f ' th » "
The Australian Leather
J OURNAL gives some further facts
about the ruin which is coming
over N.S. W. because of Fede-
ration and Protection
During the quarter ended Sept. 30
of this year the shoe imports into
N.S.W. were only £58,836, as com-
pared with £’85,035 for the corres-
ponding quarter of 1901, whilst the
exports for 1902 were £18,445, as
against £10,354 for the same period in
1901. There is thus a decrease in im-
ports for the quarter of £26,199, and
an increase in exports of £BO9l
These figures, which are supplied by
the N.S.W. Customs authorities, and
are therefore correct, would seem t»
indicate that N.S.W has succeeded
in manufacturing £34,290 more foot-
wear in one quarter this year than
in 1901, showing an average increase
of £137,160 annually.
In other words, £137,160 more
money available for wages in one
industry alone ; £137,160 more
to be spent in the shops of local
tradespeople ; and £137,160 less
going out of the country. And
Sydney Evening News last week
urged the people of N.S.W. to
arise in their might at next elec-
tion and put an end to all this.
A Maoriland correspondent
writes :
The canting coterie who are agi-
tating for the Bible in schools pro-
fess to be satisfied with the result of
the late election. But in reality they
have achieved nothing. I believe a
majority of the successful candidates
favor a referendum on the question ;
but few, if any, would vote for the
Bible-in-schools directly. If the par-
sons keep on agitating, no doubt we
shall have a referendum, as they
have had in South Australia, in which
case I predict that a huge majority
will declare in favor of keeping
popular education clear of sectarian
squabbles. Apart from the fact that
many members of all denominations
are opposed to the insidious proposal,
there are influential bodies, such as
the Jews and K.O.’s, who would
vote solidly against it. Worth re-
marking that the Bible-in-schools
agitators include a multitude of
wealthy respectables—those natural
allies of alleged Christianity who
sneer at labor legislation and support
any church which is likely to police
their vested interests. In England
the parson and the squire work to-
gether to educate the children of the poor in blind sub-
servience to the plundering- upper classes (whose game
laws and land laws are an outrage on humanity), and
doubtless they would do likewise here if they could.
May luck save us from such a damnable sectarian
wrangle as they are having in England over the Educa-
tion Bill !
The railway policy of Q. Govt, is a weird
and wondrous thing-. Owing to lack of revenue
Philp and co. close up two railways (Bowen and
Cooktown), and with the same stroke of the pen
give to the omnivorous Tram Co. two important
concessions that will, to a certainty, eat into the
suburban railway traffic. Of course, it never
struck Minister Leahy to run a few chains of
extra line so that the Government could lap up
the extra fares.
A little Melb. weekly professes to believe
that “.lack” Murray, the Vic. Chief Sec., has
changed his political principles along with his
social habits, jp,nd is in a fair way to become “a
pronounced Jingo and Imperialist.” Which sug-
gests that somebody dreams of having a go for the
next Warm am bool election on an ultra Radical
ticket. But Warrnambool knows its Murray.
“Jack,” the Minister, is the same anti-imperialist
as before, with a modified method of proclaiming
himself.
Victorian ex-Speaker F. C. Mason has
been giving excellent reasons to the public for his
recent defeat. Speaking at a banquet of sympathy,
at Foster, he said that since his election he had
been the means of getting £150,223 Govt, money
spent in his electorate, and he pointed out that if
the other 94 members had been equally active, no
less a sum than £14,276,885 would have been spent
upon their constituencies—in which case Victoria
would be about stone-broke. Yet Mr. Mason
njm ounces that he will stand again at next elec
felon!
At no time in all its history has the Q.
Govt, been so desperately unpopular as at pre-
sent. Secret—the operation of the Special Re-
trenchment a.nd Income Tax Acts. It is an open
secret that if Treasurer Cribb put up for re-
election in his Ipswich constituency to-mor-
row he wouldn’t have the ghost of a chance
At Fassifern bye-election, which has just
taken place, not a single candidate could
be found to come forward and avow himself
a Govt, supporter, although six aspirants went to
the poll. Independent Oppositionist Jenkinson,
ex-Leader of the Remnant, won in a canter, and’
his chief card was the unpopularity of the Govt’s
taxation proposals.
Sydney Morning Herald, last Friday
the true but sorrowful statement that
iN.b.W. had spent, in the last 12 months, more
loan money than Victoria has spent in the last
nine years. This is quite a usual state of things
lor instance, in the first three complete years of
George Reid’s Premiership N.S.W. spent five
times as much loan-money as Victoria did - and
i th ? Fr .l ® P. a P ers are quite willing to acknow-
ledge that this is an unwholesome state of boom
when they can thereby damage O’Sullivan and co.
But, unfortunately, when it becomes a question of
drawing the usual comparison between the effects
of Protection m Victoria and partial Freetrade in
N-S.W the fact that N.S.W has been for years
on the top wave of a huge borrowing boom drops
out of view. Protection and no loan boom are set
against partial Freetrade, and four times the area
and 50 years start,'and a huge loan boom, without
any explanation whatever, and the public is
requested to note the blessed effeots of “ flnm
mercial Freedom.”
"THE EARTH IS THE LANDLORD'S—AND THE
FULLNESS THEREOF."
An aggrieved landlord writes to The Bulletin “Mr. James
Sinclair Taylor M'Gowen, leader of N.S.W. Labor party, is not a
personal friend of mine ; but I feel a sincere sympathy for him,
because I hear he is building a terrace of houses. I hope Mr!
M‘Gowen isn’t building little houses. Never become the landlord
of a terrace of small houses. If you have the abilities which will
make you a success in that line, start, instead, a lambing-down
pub. or a 300 per shent. loan-shop. I have a terrace of houses, out
of which—woe is me! —l have to get my living. There’s Mrs
Murphy. She owed eight weeks, and when called on at No. 9on
Monday for the rent always explained that, as Murphy was out of
a job, she couldn’t pay, and ‘Share, I would be aisy with them
now.’ Finally I offered to forgive her all the debt if she would
only clear out peaoeably and give someone else a show, but she told
me she really hadn’t the money to cart her furniture away, and I
had finally to give her 18s. 6d. for that purpose. Mrs. Smith is
generally half-drunk when called on. The Smiths owe seven weeks
in all, but they now and then do pay something on account. The
Jones’s pay fairly well, but are accustomed to use the verandah-
flooring for firewood when the weather is wet. Mrs. Macdougall
pays promptly, but insists on an abatement of Is. 6d. per week
before she does pay ; and the Edwards family, who already owe 11
weeks, implore me to let them remain a little longer and allow the
house-father, who is slowly dying, to pass away in peace. And so
an. And this Xmas, as I was thinking out a matter of an over-
draft, I got this picture as a ‘ valentine.’ No, don’t buy a
terrace of houses unless you are a money-lender at heart. Rather
trust to a steady job as bailiff to keep you in your old age.”
N.S.W. Works Minister Owe’Sullivan’s
letter on the great virtue of spending borrowed
money to alleviate the drought trouble, and
getting into debt to make the country rich, and
ms story about how some of his works are return-
lng 3* and 4 per cent., evoked one pointed answer
at all events. An embittered person wrote from
Oowra to say that the Owe’Sullivan department
sent up a lot of city unemployed, many of whom
nadn t the least idea how to handle a pick, to
Oanowindra, to build a weir which cost £224 ; that
the shoddy thing immediately burst; and that the
local cockles, who are hard-up enough in any case,
have been notified that they must pay £224 for
the weir which is gone. He adds that there are
local unemployed who wanted work quite as badly
as the Sydney ones, and who would build for £lOO
a weir that wouldn’t burst.
Queensland Govt, announces its decision
to close the Cooktown and Bowen railways,
though the loss last year was .£4OOO less than the
year before, therefore it is impossible to set this
move down as one of the evil results of Federa-
tion. Ihe Cooktown line is probably hopeless,
but the failure of the Bowen railway is the care-
fully-premeditated result of almost the most
villainous piece of log-rolling that even Queens-
land has ever seen. Bowen’s unfinished scrap of
line never could pay, for it leads nowhere. But
had it been extended till it joined on to the
Mughenden railway, an immense amount of trade
would have flowed there. It wasn’t allowed to
flow there simply because Townsville wanted the
trade—Towns vide whose shallow harbor isn’t one-
tenth the value of Bowen’s, and which swallows
up cartloads of public money in an effort to make
a port where Nature never intended there should
be one. But then Premier Philp is member for
Townsville.
London Daily Chronicle, taking an un-
duly optimistic view (but not to the degree that
he malignant anti-Federal Australian press takes
a ?i.u lld c l P® 3Blm i s tic view) summarises the record
ot the first Australian Federal session
vn fp V r er m ad u U T° ma , , ‘ and . every adult man is made a
Commonwealth 0 " thr ° U * hout the
sv^pt P aw P ay rty qualifications for voters and candidates are
o ma ? mB P end over his election more than £250
if competing for the Senate, or £lOO if standing for the
House of Representatives. s
»nd h a e nv°l i9 Sh , at upon phinese, Japanese, colored labor
a 16n lt i lmifrraLlon calculated to lower the
Th. t , Vlnff and wa^es iu thfi Commonwealth.
bei “° « raduall y banished from
Commont t h , K graP i h and telephone rates within the
before ** cheapened to a » extent never
A deadly blow has been struck at the professional
t “‘ e b g ar L? P ' rlt b y affirmation of the principle that
e s . hall be a purely citizen army for Australia and no
tCI S 7n' oe oUtside the Commonwealth! *
or defend or n?mr er i nSrS ° r G °vernors-Oeneral to oppose
hLn Hr.™ f P bhcly , comment on Ministerial acts ha*
° A f lCa and en )P ha tically repudiated.
A I ederal public service in which the verv hitrheae
Sated for.° Peiled t 0 the P °° re3t with abillt > ha* been
A minimum wage of £llO a year for every adult
or°m a r rhT^T^ e i’dTd hthreeyearB ' BBrVICe ' WOmai ‘
wnnot be carried on labor^ 18
democrat. Cl ? R 0, Io h. K call® “ » world’s record in
democratic legislation.” And if the Australian
Parliament {°° k u at the a P lemdid w ork his Federal
mimhHnw! h f d ° ne ,’ - ln , stead of hewing the soured
!o=^° f Paroch , la l Pehtioians who have lost
tWt thl n eirperSOnal importance, he would realise
that the Chronicle isn’t so very far out.


LIPP PIANOS at PALING’S
The Best and most reliable German
Piano made. The Popular Piano in Australia.
mm
>//
m
m
rQ.
■
IS
•4fr.
7
Sold on
Easy
Terms.
0
Catalogues
Free by Post.
0
Old Pianos
taken in
Exchange.
Beware of Imitations of the Wonderful Lipp Pianos,
be bought only from
W. S 3. PALING & CO
The Genuine Lipp Pianos are to
Ltd.,
338 George Street, Sydney;
Brisbane and Newcastle.
VITADATIO
Wrightville, Cobar, N.S.W.,
Mr. S. A. PALMER,
27th January, 1902.
“ Vitadatio,”
IS4 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Dear Sir, —It gives me great pleasure to state to you,
for the benefit of others who may be suffering as I was
from that terrible complaint “ Hydatids,” my miraculous
recovery. If there is anyone who is grateful to you and
to VITADATIO, it is myself, and I feel that I cannot say
too much in its praise.
Some two years ago I was compelled to go to Sydney
to be operated upon, and there an operation was per-
formed in the Prince Alfred Hospital. The doctors
removed a large lump of Hydatid disease from my side.
It was then supposed that I was cured, but after my
return home to Emmaville, where I was then living, the
Hydatids appeared again, and my case was pronounced
to be a very bad one. Two of the doctors there would
not operate on me because the Hydatids were on my left
lung, but, thanks to the kindly interest of my uncle, Mr.
John Light, of 68 Kippax-street, Sydney, who is a great
friend of Mr. George Beyer, the popular lantern enter-
tainer, I was induced to give VITADATIO a trial. When
Mr. Light told Mr. Beyer that I was sinking fast and
could not live very long, owing to Hydatids on the lungs,
Mr. Beyer replied that he was certain VITADATIO
would cure me, but my uncle was very sceptical, and
said that he had no faith in “these quack stuffs.” Mr.
Beyer insisted, however, that VITADATIO would save
me, so my uncle called on 3011 and purchased three
bottles of VITADATIO for me.' I felt no result whatever
from the first two bottles, but the third bottle made me
feel so ill that I thought the end had come, so I went to
the doctor again, who made a thorough examination, and
he gave me some hope as he thought the “mass” was
moving. I continued taking the preparation, with the
1 esult that shortly afterwards I commenced to vomit up
the H3 - datids, and after continuing with VITADATIO till
I had taken seven bottles I threw up the “ cyst ” in three
pieces. I have put it in a bottle and send it to 3 r ou for
you to examine.
I wish .to add that to-day I am stronger than ever, and
am able to follow my occupation of a miner, and in the
interests of many sufferers like I used to be, I feel it is
1113- duty to make this miraculous cure, which was effected
by VITADATIO, widely known, and you are therefore at
liberty to make whatever use of this letter you wish.
Yours truly,
CHARLES E. EMERSON,
Wrightville, Cobar, N.S.W.
Tot further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
181 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The Price of Medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
Newman’s
Antiseptic Pastilles.
The Best for all Affections of the Throat.
TRY THEM. «>RICE-ONE SHILLING.
S. HARRIS, M.P.S., Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Telethone 2288. 82 KING-BT., SYDNEY.
Melbourne, or some of it, takes a quite
lively interest in the collection of British (largely
Scottish) pictures which have been hung for a
several weeks’ season at the Vic. Art Society’s
rooms :
About 160 paintings in oil and water-color, with some
60 or 70 drawings and etchings, make up the show.
Poynter has the place of honor because he is president of
the Royal Academy and carries a handle to his name, but
Poynter’s “The Greek Dance” is only an eminently
respectable thing, after all. The floor and fittings-
differing from Alma Tadema’s marble in that it looks old
and begrimed—could hardly be better painted. The
central figure, a young girl of modern boarding-school
type, dances very lightly, as she ought to dance if she
doesn’t want to slip on the marble. The older girl
onlookers give an impression of unreality, and the gene-
ral effect is oleographic. Geo. Haite’s picture of the
Victoria Jubilee Procession is a remarkably skilful waste
of art, and the eye turns away impatiently from two or
three “ kharkee ” subjec.s, unless it is the eye of acohen-
tingenter. These S’African war paintings are only
notable now for being free from gore. “A Mid May
Morning ” (85), by Alfred Parsons, doesn’t charm every-
body, although the shrill, tall voice of Superior Criticism
states that the eminent Parsons is at least true to nature
in this English landscape. The painty superabundance
of bright green grass, and the fruit trees in fullest bloom
make a garish scene. The picture next to it is a daring
seascape by Julius Olsson—“ln St. Ives’ Bay”—and
many people will prefer the blueness of Olsson’s sea to
the greenness of the grass on the other canvas. Frank
Spenlove-Spenlove exhibits two attractive landscapes
large and small, in different styles. “ Spring in London,”
by D. G. Cameron, is an unconventional work, and
David Murray’s one picture seems beautifully truJ to its
title—“ From Sultry Day to Summer Storm (109). The
sheep in the foreground are going to get caught in the
rain. Two striking little things are Thomas Schafer’s
“ Marguerite and Mephisto” (131), and Douglas Almond’s
“An Afternoon Call,” the latter a humorous subject,
painted to a nicety. Orchardson, R.A., shows a fascinat-
ing study of Hamlet, a brown-haired, feverish Hamlet,
enfeebled by midnight encounters with a spook and other
Shakespearian circumstances, and unable to settle
the suicide question one way or other. He has
a thin, dark moustache. Lady visitors take exception to
his mo. Alexander Roche and the veteran Edwin Hayes
are well represented by sea pictures, but Albert Moore's
“Elijah’s Sacrifice” —one of his early efforts—is disap-
pointing. It looks like a half-hearted effort in the Hol-
man Hunt direction. Solomon J. Solomon is represented
by “The Birth of Love.” His Venus is a fine, delicate-
complexioned young woman, presumably arising from the
sea. A large pearly shell is vaguely situated under one
of her feet. The artist would seem to have wearied of
the job when he had painted down to her feet, but all the
rest of Venus (if she be Venus) is carefully done, also
the Cupids hovering round head and shoulders. Perhaps
Solomon meant to arrive at the Unattainable and felt that
he had missed the ’bus. Many other pictures are welcome
visitors. One or two water-colors are specially charming,
and the black-and-white work calls for admiration in
several instances.
ARTIFICIAL LIMBS^
with AA marks
PATENT
RUBBER
FEET and
HANDS
ARE THE BEST
PROCURABLE.
0
Sole Agents and Manufacturers:
DENYER BROTHERS, 281 SYDNEY, 81 ’
and at cor. Lonsdale & Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
Catalogues and Prices on application.
THE CALLAGHAN
COLLARETTE
SHOE
13/C
Post
and
Duty
Free.
A
FOR
LADIES.
Ladies ordering from the country or other
States can quite easily get new and stylish
Shoes or Hoots BY POST ; they can get
all the advantages in value that keen city competi-
tion affords ; they can, by following the instructions we
give below, get an accurate, comfortable fit.
X. State size of Boot or Shoe worn, and, if necessary, send an old
' one as a check.
2. Place the foot upon a piece of. paper and, firmly pressing it
down, draw a pencd line closely round it for shape of tread
3. State if your foot is narrow, medium, or broad, as we have
different widths in every size of Shoe.
4. State whether broad, medium, or narrow toes required
Ladies’ Fine American Glace Kid Lace or Button
Shoe, with up-to-date, stylish toe-cap of (
patent leather, and having new-fashioned f
collarette, as shown in engraving. J
12/11
POST AND DUTY FREE
13/6
CALLACHAN BOOTS or SHOES can be EXCHAHCED if not correct,
as we wish DISTANT Customers to be as pleased as those In town.
Your Money RETURNED If you are not satisfied .with the Shoes.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 ceorce st., Sydney.


Banking, Public Companies, See.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY terms.
WE
C#>
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
3XT.S.-W.
lflontdepieteO.Al.CoM Ltd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74
CASTLEREAGH ST.,
SYDNEY
74
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager,
'—'l'll
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices * * 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Robbrts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruck Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,595,870.
Policies issued 88,299 assuring £26,826,380.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,767,115.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses —equitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
file Bank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Go. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250 900 ... £350,000
Royal Bank of Queensland
LIMIT HI).
CAPITAL PAID-UP £451,307
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 181,859
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 56,000
£689,166
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., YV. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ASCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Queensland Smelting (Jomjig.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Mary borough.
T3UYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
f ' Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, ap, ly to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street. Melbourne.
HESAVIM G S B A M K
HAS MONEY TO LEND in VICTORIA
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £2OOO to £15,000, on Town
Properties; £2OOO to £2 >,OOO on BROAD ACRES, :.nd
sums from £5OO to £2O 0 at .4.V per cent, on Town
Properties FOR FIVE YEARS,. WITH OPTION OP
PAYING OFF PART HALF YEARLY.
FARMERS’ CREDiT FONCIER.
Loans up to £2OOO at 4J per cent. Ft R 31V YEARS.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Market-street, Melbourne.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. litd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
I>ire.store —Sydney: Hon. A. \V. Mkkks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Hon. John Skk, Lt.-Col. Bohns (Barns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jwssor, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clynk ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlank ; Brisbane, li. Wilson ; I’orth, A. W.
I' AUQUIi Alt. J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australia,
l;U I’itt St., SYDNKY.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNKY BRANCH :
Equitable LB uAding's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £2,500.000
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .190,000 0 0
KKSKRVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) £9576 13 4
Directors: F. It. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : It. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
V. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BOItItOWMAN, Manager.
FItEDK. A. LANG, Assistant Managei
No. 56 ACETYLENE CAS Catalogue
'i=-_
&
a the MOST COMPLETE
and COMPREHENSIVE
ever issued.
Tells all about the Best
ACETYLENE CAS GENER-
ATORS, LAMPS, and
everything in connection
with ACETYLENE.
Nearly 400 of our
Reliable Automatic
Acetylene Gas
Generators
In daily use.
Large Slocks of the
Best
Carbide
of Calcium
Quotations on application.
James MARTIN & CO.,
161 Clarence Street,
Nr. King-st., Sydney.
Shipping.
N. 3D. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly~Mail Service
. of
Twin Screw Steamers.
Oih, A l S ® N r a S?_ B .°° KED tO . IkyPt, Naples, Genoa,
g.m.s.
*G. KURFURST
*P. R. UJITPOL
*FRIE RICH D. (
‘BREMEN ..
‘RHEIN
OLDENBURG
*Twin-screw steamer.
Leaving MELBOURNE Wednesday after Sydney.
Interstate First Class Return Tickets are now available
s Steamers of ‘he P. and 0., Orient
. TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. STETTIN, 18th FEBRUARY.
And Regularly Thereafter.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities - Maximum Speed.
Safety r and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, Cl\ ILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents, J
WEBER I.OHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
AFRIC, to Sail on or about 23rd JANUARY,
SUEYIC, PERSIC, RUNIC, and MEDIC
to follow.
FARES-Capetown .. .. £l6 16 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 27 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 33 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
Huddart, parker g (Jo’s Line
—TO—
MELROURNR, HO HART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND POUTS.
Pares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
.A. 3\r ZD
LINE
via
San Francisco
California.
FASTEST AND BEST
ROUTE
TO
ENGLAND,
Via America and Canada*
Hauls of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. .. ~ .. 2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. .. 1,300,000 0 0
Reserve Liability .. .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
Total 5,300,000 0 0
Directors :
Hon. Ciias. K. Mackbllar, M.L.0., President.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator James Thomas Walker.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L C.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors:
Harrington Palmer, Esq. Frederick W. Uther, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies, New Zealand
and Fiji ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
T ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its mstomers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public'securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agengy of other banks ; issues drafts, Circular
ho es and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10hS.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in tha
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets am)
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DAN Cl Al 3 F 1.0053
of various sizes supplied.
S
"I’U Try It.-
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
9
The Remit.
CRAIG &. AITKEN, N.s. W. Barber’s Supply
House, 680-682 GEORGE STR£=T, SYDNEY,
SUITS TO ORDER.
A S a matter of comparison, before ordering Your
SUITS, write to . . .
CHARLES GILBERT, tha Leading-Tailor,
Queen Street, Brisbane . . .
for Patterns of NEWEST SUITINGS and SFLF-MEA-
SUREMENT'FORMS, and compare the value of his 508
SUIT TO MEASURE (carriage paid to any address) with
what you can get in either SYDNEY or MELBOURNE;
and if you Cannot see the advantages he offers, you must
be blind in one eye and deaf in the other.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
WONDERFUL VALUE—A packet of Seven different
articles, comprising Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Casket,
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Coin and
Card Tricks), the Wizard Fish (gives the definition of your
character, very superior for parlor entertainments), the
Mafeking Grub (or Nerve Strengthener), the Vest Pocket
Tubular Microscope (very useful for examining small
objects), the Cinematograph (or book of moving pic-
tures), and, last of all, the great American Puzzle—
“CAN U DO IT.” Instructions enclosed.
This splendid packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralia (Free) on receipt of 2s. 6d.
X
H. L. HUTCHINSON,
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO .
Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket. 710 George-st., Sydney’.
LADIES..
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address— L.D.l.i 300 Collins St.i Melboumo
THE GREAT
/ OVERSEA 1
\ OVERLAND /
HIGHWAY
TO THE UNITED KINGDOM,
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, and AMERICA.
The NEWEST, LARGEST (6000 Tons each), FASTEST,
and ONLY TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS engaged in
the TRANS-PACIFIC PASSENGER SERVICE from
Australia and New Zealand.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
OCHA NIC STKAJUSHJH CO., J.TJK
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts. SYDNEY-
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LIME
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
STEAMERS SAIL-
Jan. 26, Feb. 23, March 23.
CHEAPEST ROUTE TO LONDON.
FIRST SALOON, £55 to £66.
SECOND „ £35 to £4O.
BEST ROUTE TO AMERICA.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passengei Agent.
USE -
SPOONER’S
IPy
•«'* it
ESi
SPOONER'S
V
*
P** •••*
ATENT LEATHER BOOTS
GLAZED WOSfc?
♦••«*** IN
**••»«**»••
T.*"* ■?!"> ■'****
=SSSWj
RIVAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning: and Polishing
Hoots and Shoes. °
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Pressing: for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing's,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by dll Storekeepers ,
■Soot Shops, Saddlers, etp,
Medical.
ASK FOR
ROSE’S CELEBRATED
Eye Lotion.
Cures All Affections of the Eyes.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers.
Free for Asking.
%A#RITE to us and we will forward you our scientific
w w book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking-, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy
strength and ambition once more. Posted free Write’
to John Wilson, Box 135, G.P.0., Adelaide, S.A.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Viotorian and Queensland Ports.
FOB MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhippingat Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Allinjra,
Friday, January 16.
S.S. Woilowra,
Saturday, January 17.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oairns
S.S. Rockton, Sat., Jan. 17.
S.S. Friday, Jan. 23.
S.S. Innamincka, Saturday,
January 31.
Rest and Cheapest Route to Goldjlehls.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
P AND O COMPANY’S
'* V/ " ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
* Via Hobart.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B to £/7
Ditto Ditto Return, £66 to £ll5
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific,
Messageries Mari times and N,D.L. Steamers having room.
A. GORDON WESCHE,
63 Pitt-street, Acting Agent,
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with tha
French Government, nulling at MKI.BOUBNE ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and POET
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows: -
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
Including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TIOKEPS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and 0.,
Orient Pacific and N.D.L. steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Si let, Sydney.
R. BRASHER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. BY TIIE . .
“E. and A.” LINE.
-Touching’ at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
These steamers specially built for t ie 14 wterii passenger
trade are fitted with EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR
TROPICAL TRAVEERING. The Saloon Cabins con-
taining two berths only are all on UPPER DECK AMID-
SHIPS, and are arge.cool, and fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Canada, United
States of America and Europe.
Forhandbooks and all infer nation apply to the
EASTERN ami AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 P tt-st., Sydney
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
rNLORODYNE.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHEA, Ac., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS at
Sept. 28, 1895, says): __ , '
“If I were asked which single medicme.l should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusiou of al{
others, 1 should stiy Chlorodyne. 1 never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
reliei of a large number of simple ailments forhia
its best recommendation.”
ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
sss "aSLhJsrb aa
wnte for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers 4. Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of A ustralasia
-Hz A-ITKEKT,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 George Street, Sydney.
GENTS.
Addrrss.-
writefor valuable free book
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
L.D.1., 300 Collins St., Melbourne.


Advt. from The Queen, England’s society
newspaper:
DOGS.—Wanted, country home with lady, for red
poodle bitch, 3 years, blind one eye, excellent
pedigree, very handsome, particularly quiet, affec-
tionate, clean in the house ; reason for parting,
travelling. Reference from clergyman desired to
ensure genuine replies.— Mrs. Remfry, Firsleigh,
Torquay.
“ Reference from clergyman required ” as to the
home offered a one-eyed dog, affectionate and
clean in the house. How very—haw !—English !
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Raspberry-vinegar manufacturers are pro-
testing against the aspersions recently cast on the
character . of their temperance lotion by Melb.
Board of Health. They state that the modicum
of cochineal employed in coloring the vinegar up
to the standard of redness required by consumers
do.es not amount to adulteration, inasmuch as it
is harmless in practice and strictly moral in prin-
ciple. If the stuff bore its natural tint the
teetotal drinker would turn from it, and probably
take to beer and other sinful substitutes. The
wail of the raspberry-vinegar men sounds reason-
able, considering that the Board of Health has
not yet made special reference to the matter of
tinned sheep-tongues and bullocks’ ditto. What
passes for the natural “jelly of the meat ” in a
tin of tongues is darkly rumored to be sometimes
magnified by the addition of melted glue, which
is not so nourishing as it looks. The glue trade
is deeply involved in the mysteries of food-adul-
teration.
Disorders of
the Stomach
Regulated by
Chamberlain’s
Stomach and
Liver Tablets
Price 1/6. lust what you need.
mm
mmm
Disorders of the stomach are, as a rule,
caused by a torpidity of the liver and bowels
and irregularity in living. When the diges-
tion is naturally weak, as is often the case
with people of middle age and older, too much
care cannot be used to keep the bowels
regular, for when they become constipated
the trouble is greatly aggravated. In fact,
constipation is the prime cause of nearly
all disorders of the stomach. Keeping the
bowels regular, however, will not alone cure
these disorders. Only easily digested food
should be taken, and that moderately and
well masticated, And at regular hours.
Fully six hours should elapse between meals,
so as to give ample time for digestion and
allow the stomach a period of rest before
more food is taken. The liver and whole
digestive apparatus needs toning up, for which
purpose take two Chamberlain’s Stomach
and Liver Tablets to begin with and then
one tablet each day for a few days until the
disorder is corrected, They should be taken
immediately after supper. In case one tablet
a day does not keep the bowels free, take two;
or if one each day causes the bowels to act
too freely, take only one every other day.
, NOTE.—If not able to obtain Obamber-j
lain’s Stomach and Liver Tablets locally,
a package will be sent, post paid, upon re-
ceipt of 1/6, or six packets for 8/-, by
addressing Chamberlain Medicine Co., 64
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. 123
THE PANAMA HAT CRAZE.
This can be indulged at a small expense if you send to
CHARLES GILBERT’S (the leading Panama
Hat House), Queen-street, who,
having just returned from the centres of manufacture
for these scarce lines, can supply either folding or Alpi
shape at 18/6, 22/6, 25/-, 30/-, 35/- to 45/- (cash with
order), securely packed and carriage paid to any address.
Southern States values simply not in it. A trial oide
will convince you.
Missing Friends.
IF this should meet the eye of ANDY MILLON,
who left Taihape, North Island, New
Zealand, some 6 years ago or any friend
knowing his whereabouts, would he or they kin y
communicate with the undersigned, who will
supply news of beneficial character.
G. N. JENSEN,
Taihape,
North Island, New Zealand.
FOR
OLD & YOUNG
the vigour and buoyancy of health are secured by the timely
and regular use of Mother SeigePs Curative Syrup—a natural
tonic and blood purifier compounded of fruits, roots and herbs.
It tones the liver, regulates the bowels, promotes the thorough
digestion of food and thus sustains and nourishes both brain and
body with an abundant flow of pure rich blood.
u Six years ago,” says Mr.T. Martin,
of 91, Brougham St., Sydney, N.S.W.,
u l began to suffer from quite a complication of complaints. I
was both bilious and dyspeptic, and suffered excruciating agony
in my back. One doctor told me I was suffering from dyspepsia
and enlargement of the liver, but his treatment failed to cure
me, and not until I used Mother SeigePs Syrup and Plasters
k did I find permanent relief. I continued with the remedies ,
Jor nine weeks, by which time I was permanently re*
to good health.”
Made of
Fruits, Roots & Herbs.
The VOLCANIC
DERATING
MACHINE
l}Hn|uiiU>i'iuiiliii[u»imtiini/Mniin, miiUn
A Great
Saving
..TO..
HOTELKEEPERS,
CAFE PROPRIETORS, etc
AERATED WATERS of the Highest Quality
produced with the utmost rapidity
WITHOUT SKILLED LABOR.
Absolutely the best and simplest
Machine in the market. Price
£3O
TUBES CONTAIN 571bs. GAS.
CAPACITY OF CYLINDERS lOoals. WATER.
VALVE ACTS AUTOMATICALLY.
Smaller Machines on same Principle) £2O.
Write for Descriptive Pamphlets with Testimonials from
people who have used the Machine for years.
W. JAMES, Proprietor,
Office: 101 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE
Depot : 130 CECIL ST., SOUTH MELBOURNE.
Don’t wait for Thisl
ARE YOU BALD
Let me examine your scalp, and I will tell you whether
or not you can be cured. The great majority of those
who are bald CAN be cured, and if I undertake your
case I will make a small charge for treatment in addition
to the cost of CAPILLA used.
CAPILLA HAIR TONIC
If this Preparation is rightly used it will produce the
result I claim —it will make your Hair grow. And if
you will call on me I will convince you.
CAPILLA HAIR TONIC is obtainable at all Chemists—2/6 per bottle.
W. OLIVER RICHARDS, Sole Proprietor and Inventor, 164 Pitt Street, Sydney
The “Enterprise”
Rubber Massage Roller
Makes, Keeps
and Restores
Beauty in Na-
tu re’s own way.
The cup-shaped teeth have a
suction effect on the skin that
smooths out wrinkles, rounds out
the beauty muscles, and gives per-
fect circulation of the blood.
It is so constructed that it treats
every portion of the face and neck
perfectly, even to the “ crow’s
feet ” in the corners of the eyes.
Price of Ro'ler - - - -
(with FREE Sample
Jar o c “SKIN --
FOOD")
46
Post
Free.
i
YZVr-fi
i am
m
Box 133, Q.P.O.
THE ENTERPRISE CO., me lb.
When ordering please mention thi- paper.
miiiui
Hotelkeepers, make your own
4ERATED WATERS
THE “AUSTRAL” DERATED WATER MACHINE occupies
only Four Feet square, will produce 160 dozen BOTTLES
per dav of Finest Waters (Lemonade, Ginger Ale, Sodawater,
&e.) at a COST BELOW FOURPENCE PER DOZEN. These machines
are now working in all the Australian States, New Zealand, and
South Africa.
Write For Prices and Particulars.
Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers—
ECKERSLEY AND SONS,
214-216 Queen Street, Melbourne.
The Cockie.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Immersed in dreams of other days,
With vacant stare he rode along,
The cockie man ; his haggard gaze
Was fraught with many a tale of wrong.
His acres barren were and grey,
He looked upon the dust profuse ;
His tanks were dry as Old Decay,
He spurred and muttered “ Wot’s th’ use?”
By hut and humpy did he ride,
And turned his head to look at Death,
At which his ancient cuddy shied ;
The wind was like a furnace breath.
And track and lane the cockie took,
Intent on Distance or the Deuce;
A broken man he “took his hook”
And only muttered : “ Wot’s th’ use?”
v.
WILL JARRATT.
The Book of Pember Beeves.
illiam Pember Reeves, one of the most able
Ministers Maoriland ever had, and afterwards
Agent-General for that State, has written a book
which supplies a great literary want. His “ State
Experiments in Australia and New Zealand ” is
practically the whole story of progressive legis-
lation in the seven States of Australasia. The
information it contains is essential to every poli-
tician, and every journalist who ranks above the
dog-fight order, and till W. P. Reeves wrote his
book the same information had to be sought for in
dozens of different volumes, a ton of Hansards
and Parliamentary papers, and a shipload of
newspapers. Mr. Reeves tells the story of
Australia’s factory laws, its arbitration and
conciliation statutes, minimum wage laws, early-
closing Acts, systems of dealing with the
unemployed, its land laws with all the various ex-
periments in the way of land settlement attached
thereto, its various old age pension policies, anti-
Chinese and anti-Kanaka and other anti-undesir-
able-alien enactments, its State banks, its fran-
chises, Federal and State constitutions —in fact he
tells practically the whole story of democratic
progress. And, on the whole, he tells it fairly,
honestly, and interestingly. He was himself for
some years in the thick of the battle, and Austra-
lasia always regarded Reeves as a good and ex-
ceptionally clever democrat, though he was never
strong enough to lead a great movement, and he
never influenced the masses as Ballance, Seddon,
Kingston, or even Turner did. He can in no place
be accused of over-stating his case ; in a good many
instances he understates it. Apparently this
arises solely from a desire to be absolutely fair to
his opponents ; there is no visible evidence in his
book that Mr. Reeves is any worse a democrat in
London than he was in Maoriland.
* • • «
The book calls up the ghosts of hundreds of lost,
dead and exploded prophecies. Every separate
reform whose history it tells reminds us of some-
thing that is almost forgotten, but which should
be remembered—-how the passing Tory of the day
wrote a huge “ Ichabod ” on the outer wall, and
said that now at last the country was really lost,
and nothing was left but ruin and ashes. Nowa-
days, when a new reform is proposed and the pro-
phecies delivered against the old reforms are all
exploded and dead, the Tory rises to say some-
thing like this:
I am an eminently reasonable, progressive, and liberal
man. Though you call me a Tory, I approve of (here
follows a list which varies according to circumstances).
Therefore my words should carry the more weight when
I say that the measure now proposed will ruin the
country, uproot the pillars of the Constitution, and open
the floodgates of anarchy generally.
And therein the Tory is a liar. He has declared,
when each progressive idea was mooted, that it
meant ruin, chaos and conflagration, and, when
the prophecy fell through, he has denied that he
ever prophesied at all. His prophecy was a lie,
and his after denial of it was a lie, and each time
he prophesies afresh the fact that he is a convicted
liar should be written up large so that the world
may not forget. There are any number of
measures which are intended to be progressive,
and which, unfortunately, pan out much below
expectation, but the Tory class prophesied as
strongly against the one that succeeded as against
the one that partially failed. Therefore the Tory,
as a tainted witness, should be ruled out of court.
(This is a digression.)
* * • *
There are weak spots in Reeves’s book, as well
as strong ones. He dwells a shade too much
sometimes on his own State. He does, perhaps,
scant justice to good democrats who failed, or
partially failed, iii almost hopeless circumstances.
Kingston, of South Australia, probably devised
more good democratic measures than any other
statesman in Australasia, but he had to fight with
a Legislative Council elected on a narrow fran-
chise, and could not swamp his House of Obstruc-
tion by new appointments, as Ballance and Seddon
could, and did, in Maoriland ; so the strongest
Australasian politician of his day left many things
un 'one because he struck against a set of circum-
stances that we e even stronger than himself.
George Turner, in Victoria, had to struggle with
an Upper House vastly stronger and more Tory
and more utterly unshiftable than even that of
S.A. —one. compared to which the British
House of Lords is liberalism itself. It is
questionable if even the brawny Seddon would
have achieved so much, in these apparently
hopeless circumstances, as was done by the patient
little solicitor who never called himself a demo-
crat, and hardly even took the trouble to label his
measures ‘ 1 progressive. ” Yet Kingston gets little
notice, and Turner is mentioned about three
times, not too favorably. The credit for passing
the Minimum Wage Law—at the time almost the
most advanced democratic idea on this earth,
and carried in the teeth of almost the most
unpromising Upper House on this globe—
is given wholly to Turner’s subordinate, Peacock,
though when Peacock came to stand alone he
proved himself a very subordinate person indeed.
• * * *
And nowhere in the book is there a hint at the
great truth which is even now beginning to come
home to the Labor parties in Australasia that
sound finance is a most essential democratic idea
—that every Labor party should have a financial
policy, and that the cardinal points of it should
be the abolition of deficits, the abolition
of foreign borrowing, and the redemption
of the most pawned country on earth from
the pawnshop where it is deposited. Mr.
Reeves hardly mentions the fact that the
policy of land repurchase for closer settlement is
a system whereby land is sold .for cash which is
used as revenue, and then repurchased out of loan
funds, while the revenue doesn’t refund the ori-
ginal purchase money. He scarcely indicates once
that the village settlement policy rests almost
wholly on loans, and that even old age pensions,
to a great extent, come indirectly out of loans.
Mr. Reeves apparently regards all that the
democratic party has gained as so much perma-
nent victory, whereas the great danger of Tory
re-action rests on the fact that much of it is
gained solely by the grace of ti e British money-
lender, that he holds the key of the position, and
that the key already shows signs of giving way,
and turns with more difficulty in the lock every
da y- .
Yet withal “State Experiments in Australia
and New Zealand ”is an invaluable book. Even
the author’s apparent admiration for that amazing
Maoriland Act under which land is leased for 999
years at a rental equal to 4 per cent, on its present
value and the rental can’t be increased from now
to the year 2902, no matter what happens in the
interim, isn’t sufficient to make it other
than invaluable. His book is History-a rare
and essential and difficult-to-get-at patch of His-
tory and the politician who is without it is lost—
or else he is Pumpkin Smith, which, when one
comes to think of it, is almost the same thing.
There is timely talk of disbanding Baden
Powell’s comic-opera army, the S.A.C., which,
though only about 10,000 strong, costs £1,500,000
per annum:—
“ The troopers ” it is stated ‘‘are scattered about on
the veldt, at what are understood to be ‘ posts.’ B.P. says
they are doing useful pacification work by cultivating
friendly relations with the Boer. They do this principally
by marrying the Boer maids. This practice, however, is
not confined to the S.A.C. people, as these maidens fair
are very often heiresses to large fortunes, in spite of the
way the war ruined everybody in Boerdom. They’ are
very much sought after. The latest victim is Lord
Milner’s private secretary. He is engaged to a young
lady from Orangia. Her complexion is a rich gold—
extremely rich gold—but otherwise her beauty is not
pronounced."
There has not been a more interesting
Australian book published for a long time than
“Bushman and Buccaneer” —giving the life and
writings of Harry Morant (“The Breaker”).
Every bushman will want to buy a copy for the
sake of the complete collection of “The Breaker’s”
verses which it contains. The book gives a photo-
graphic reproduction of the “ copy ” of Morant’s
last verses, written in gaol, and many illustrations,
from authentic photographs, of the Bushveldt
Carbineers’ operations. Price one shilling.
Wholesale from Edwards Dunlop and Co., Syd-
ney.-
ADVT.


FACILE PRINCEFS.
SEMPER IDEM.
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
BUILT ON HONOR
That is to say, in construction, nothing hut the verv finest • ,
,h ' P***. *“><«« »"■>h. bare are .1?o“he hiStoVpoS,"tl. b '‘‘™ e, •
RED BIRD BICYCLES
have, for the above reasons, established a reputation whinh
Champion of Australasia, rides a RED BIRD? Supposing you wrfte ? n . ? op ' . . DON WALKER,
Address- GOOLH RIO VO.e 1 aSk h ‘ S ° pin,on ° f them -
GQOLD BICYCLE CO„ 64 King-st., Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Charters Towers Racing Club wasn’t taking any
Mo. at its last meeting. Kicks by some committeemen
against this attitude were met with suggestions that the
‘club make a “double book,” leaving the machine for
straight-out betting, and over £4OOO passed through it.
Secy. R. Russell, of the C.T.R.C., who has done much for
N.Q. racing heads the movement against the “ books,”
: and vows that he'll rid the country of them ; and there
! is much langwidge in Israel in consequence.
* • • *
Sterling old nag Blue Metal will sport silk no
'more, but retires to a well-grassed paddock rather than
'run the risk of breaking down completely. Blue Metal
'owns an interesting history. Bred by Mr. 0. Baldwin at
Durham Court (in ’95) he brought £2O as a 2yr. old.
Messrs. Donoghue Bros., of Warwick (Q.), raced him first
and he won for them. Two successive years the A. J.O.
Summer Cup fell to Blue Metal, but a third effort in the
same event saw Caledonia beat him by a head, and in
Tattersall’s Cup immediately following he was second to
Hoop Iron. Last autumn Blue Metal annexed the Aus-
tralian Cup and on last day of that meeting appropriated
Loch Plate, beating Wakeful. He is a gelding of 8 years
and five seasons of racing.
• » *
Noted at recent Perth (W.A.) Cup meeting
that heavy betting has fallen off considerably—“ fivers ”
taking the place of “ fifties’’—whereat the be-jewelled
one was much chagrined, as he had to disgorge £7O for the
privilege of “fielding” during the four days. Profit to
the club was, however, wonderful, nearly £ll,OOO being
netted, which must be close to an Australasian best.
• • • •
Lochiel-Lady Kingborough 4-year-old Kinglock
has been sold to go to S’Africa. Price paid not known,
but ought to be high, as few Australian nags promised so
handsomely.
• * • •
Up to date, M.L. 3-yr.-old Waikiri has had six
wins and one second in seven starts, and won £1950
stake money.
• • * •
Lifebelt, winner of the 2-yr.-old race at War-
wick Farm, Saturday, is worth watching. Pedigree By
Niagara from Faith, by Vespasian from Hope, by Yat-
tendon.
• • * •
Entrants for coming Newmarket Handicap
(Australia’s biggest sprint) total 79—four less than last
year, and considerably behind the 116 of 1901. There’s a
bigger falling off in Australian Cup nominations. Only
40 were received, as against 50 last year and 52 the year
before.
* * • *
Mentone (Vic.) races, t’other day, provided
something extremely rare. For Steeple, Scotch Reel was
rushed at 4 to 1, and then went back to twenties, with
“any,price you like” offered in running. She won.
Something must have gone very much wrong somewhere.
• * • •
A Melb. paper, discussing the variegated career
of Mr. Bob Suttor Sievier, the one-time “ English book-
maker “of Australia, credited that remarkable plunger
with having married a ducheis. Sievier, divorced by his
young Melbourne wife after his return to England, didn’t
capture a duke’s widow for his second partner. The lady
who brought a title—courtesy title—into his family was
the then Marquis of Ailesbury’s only sister. Ailesbury
was a hopeless young waster, and so notoriously dis-
respectable that he never took his seat in the House of
Peers, where any ordinary noble blackguard is reckoned
an acceptable pillar of the State. The sister, whom
Sievier persuaded to jilt her previous johnnie, was a
handsome young woman. She had given offence to her
relatives by sticking to her rorty brother, and lending
him what money she possessed. So Sievier got
no fortune with his bride, Lady Mabel Brude-
nell-Bruce. After their marriage, she was sued by
the previous johnnie. He wanted his presents back
from the faithless one, but he didn’t get them. Then
Mr. Sievier and Lady Sievier passed out of notoriety
for a long time. Bob made his first big rise by backing
The Grafter (from Australia) for the City and Suburban
and from that time his luck has been phenomenal. He
played-up his Grafter winnings, trebled his capital,
bought some yearlings at record prices, and struck a gold
mine in one of them—the mare Sceptre. According to
all accounts Sievier is as obstinately foolish in some
respects as his late brother-in-law, the most noble the
Marquis of Ailesbury. He persisted in training Sceptre
on his own and the wonderful mare has lost several rich
stakes through his bad management. All the same
Sievier figures at the top of the list of winning owners for
the last English racing season, and Sceptre is still on her
legs. Fortune favors audacity, when audacity knows
how to address a lady.
• • • •
Published statement that Australian breeders
are under great disabilities compared with those of M.L.
in entering hags for that country’s “young” races is not
altogether correct. Entries for all M.L. w.f.a. and
classic events are made by breeders and no money is
charged for nomination. First forfeit is only a sov. which
is due just about when a pretty good summing up of a
youngster’s possibilities may be made. M.L. breeders
nominate liberally and to keep up with them Australian
breeders must do likewise.
• • • •
Athena, winner of 2-year-old races at A. J.C. and
Tatt.’s meets recently, promises much. She was bred at
Tocal (N.S.W.) by Mr F. Reynolds, and is by dead
Grandmaster horse Gibraltar, from Equation by Grand
Flaneur. She is shapely, and shows fine shoulders and
good bone. 'Tis told regarding the breeding of this
filly that when it was decided to send her dam to Gibral-
tar, Mr. White offered £lOO to her breeder for the chance
of a foal—if there’d been no foal Mr. W. would have lost
his money.
• • • ■
Apparently Plugger Bill feels his day is over.
He carefully abstained from coming to Sydney to compete
with Major Taylor, and conteuted himself by hanging
round Melbourne, picking up unconsidered trifles while
all the best men were in Sydney. Sort of “ any mouse is
big enough for me ” business. The sanctimonious negro
not long since in U.S.A. gave Martin 100yds. in the mile
and beat him badly But perhaps the Plugger is lying
low for a big coup.
• • • •
Third night of Major Taylor season at Sydney
Cricket Ground drew about 15,000. St. Taylor started
10 yards behind scratch in the third heat of the Summer
Wheel race, and only finished fourth. “ Special Invita-
tion ” scratch (1 lap) event saw him on the wheel again,
when Maorilander Chalmers dead-heated with him in
38 sec. The fourth heat of the same race was won by
Don Walker in 37 3-5, but in the final Taylor caught
Walker near the finish and won in 36 1-5.
• • • *
After the first day’s racing at Sydney, Major
Taylor specially picked a local man named Gudgeon as
one of the most promising local riders. Since then,
Gudgeon’s success has been remarkable, he being placed
more often than anyone else, bar Walker, which shows
that Taylor has judgment. Perhaps Gudgeon “ didn’t
know he was loaded,” so to speak, until Taylor drew his
attention to the fact.
• • • •
Doubtful if Taylor is really a better cyclist physi-
cally than Walker. Anyhow, he’s nothing like so grace-
ful, but Walker lacks heart and judgment. Once the
saintly’Murkan overtakes him Walkerseeins to lose going
power. Once Megson succeeded in beating Walker he
kept on doing it. Apparently, if Walker could instil
a little extra courage—a little ability to make one
supreme effort—into the place where he carries his
pluck, Australia might own the world’s champion
cyclist.
• * * •
Colored cyclist Taylor, in a religious paper, on
his own virtues ‘ ‘ Yes, sir ;I am glad to say that lam
a Christian, and it doesn’t make any difference who
knows it I don’t make a secret of it, though I don’t go
round sounding a trumpet. ... I attribute most of my
success entirely to the fact that I have tried to do what
was right—live fairly and squarely by every man—and
any man who follows those principles is bound to succeed.
The fact that I am brought among worldly people
all the time people who are inclined to be the
other way—makes the fact stand out, perhaps. But
I hope I have not conveyed any impression that I think
myself better than anvbody else. . There are people
who don’t know what it is to feel here (placing his hand
over his heart) that they are doing what is right; but the
man who does know would not be without it. Sometimes
they say to me, ! Major, how do you manage to get along
as you do? You never work in with any other rider on
the track ; you never seem to have a friend, and yet you
win and never have an accident.’ I reply: ‘I always
have a Friend with me, a Friend who looks after me.’’”
And this saintly cyclist is understood to be still preserving
his virtue in the blastiferous atmosphere of Sydney pro-
fessional cycling! If the Major will come round before
he leaves us and swear on The Bulletin office Bible that
he is as good as when he arrived here, this paper will
actually grovel to him.
* * » •
Glorious weather, and the absence of counter
attractions, brought some 30,000 to see the Austral
Wheel Race final at M.C. Ground last Saturday. As
usual, the very naicest sat or stood cheek by jowl with
Flossies and embryo-Flossies, while tugs and spielers
from Bourke-st. shouldered their way in with the select
cricket club members. The club’s spasm of virtue as to
prohibiting belting was very short-lived, a huge mob of
mostly unregistered Ikeys—with the aforesaid tugs—
filling the whole eastern end of the stand promenade.
These openly displayed their bags and books, and showed
what they thought of the affair by raucously yelling
“20 to 1, bar one,” then “ Any price bar one ” —said one
being, of course, Mick Lewis. Despite this, writer,
knowing that one determined goer might upset the coup,
picked the man with the best heat performance—Auger
—and went down to back him. He was offered 10’s,
then 15’s, 20’s and finally invited to name his own price,
but as he couldn’t find a bookie he knew, and the others
seemed altogether too anxious to lay, he summed up the
situation as “ crook,” and stood off. The spectacle of a
dozen Ikeys being subsequently escorted outside by
plain clothes police, and of others giving backers merely
their stakes back, enabled him to regard his omission to
plunge on Auger with equanimity. The race—well, it
was chiefly a nursing contest, with Lewis for baby ; the
latter half being run at such an easy pace that Auger—
almost on the limit—was able to reserve enough strength
for the final dash. This year’s Austral stinks, as usual,
and if the club officials take no action on the evidence of
their own eyes then—to be Hibernian for a moment—
they can’t have noses.
* • * *
The effect of this year’s Austral was absurdly
belittled by the motor-chasing of the Germans- Robl and
Dickentmann—who went 5 miles each at the rate of
about 35 miles an hour shortly before the'big event came
to pass. The Austral riders put in their 2 miles at the
rate of about 27 miles an hour only, and it was surprising
to find they travelled as fast as that. To see them •
toiling around without the excitement of a puffing motor,
anyone who wasn’t taking the times would have thought
they were even more than half a lap per minute slower
than the Germans. The race was not nearly as interest-
ing as the “struggle” of last year, when Mick Lewis,
having nobody to assist him, paced himself on his own
for 6 laps, what time the Billmartin crowd was carefully
preparing victory pre-destined Plugger.
From a turfman’s point of view, a handicap
race by cyclists is a mere mockery of the handicapper.
The fellows on the out-marks rarely attempt to take
advantage of their position. Also, the back-marks, after
benefiting by the weakness of the original leaders, who
have allowed them to come up, fail to take advantage of
their position. As soon as the field gets bunched all the
riders, individually and syndicately, appear to drop
their policies and trust to luck. Saturday’s race
was an irritating display of foolishness or roguery
—who shall say which is which in such cases?
The eight front men had the chance to confine
the race to themselves. When the pistol went off they
were placed at short intervals from 170yds. to 80yds.
ahead of the nearest of the back markers. Yet, at the
end of a mile (when five of them had covered only 7 fur-
longs, or less), the back marks were among them. After
which the favored overtakers, instead of combining to
get away from the fellows they had already outpaced,
went jigging along in their company, with the result that
Auger—a 250yds. mark—sprinted home ahead of Forbes
(50) and Mick Lewis (90). The handicapping may have
had some bearing on the result, but it certainly didn’t
provide sport on distinct handicap lines. Yet, it would
be quite easy to give an Austral all the interest of a stern,
chase. Why not allot £l5O Of the prize money to the
rider who is leading at the end of six laps?
• • * •
Forbes has the best Austral record —Ist in 1900,
2nd in 1902 (or 1903, owing to the postponement). Kellow
was 3rd in 1891 and Ist five years later. Elliott was 3rd
on two occasions. Nobody else has been placed more
than once thus far.
* * * *
A series of coincidences! The “devil’s year,”
1903, adds up to 13 ; the Austral wheel-race was run on
the 13th month following its predecessor of 1901 ; it was
numbered “event 13” on the official programme; and
was won by Frederic Auger, number 13 on the list of
competitors, and with 13 letters in his name. Mate of
the writer backed Auger, and the penciller’s ticket was
157—total 13.
. *
Robl and Dic-kentman are tall fellows, and
would be conclusive proofs that superior height gives
supremacy in cycling if their performances were not
accomplished under foreign coalitions. Their blasti-
ferous motor is a novelty to Australians, their bike (with
the front wheel smaller than the hind wheel, to admit of
the rider sheltering close to the back of rearward motor-
man) is a novelty likewise, and their machines are tyred
differently from ours. There can be no fair Australian
competition against the strangers. But if Beauchamp’s
defeat of Dickentman was bona fide, there might be a
local man capable of bustling Robl, who doesn’t seem
more than an enlarged edition of the Jack Parsons of
yore.
* * * »
The Sydney Thousand —a mile handicap to
be run at the March cycle meeting at Sydney
Cricket ground—will he the largest prize-money ever
given to a bicycle handicap in the world. It is a big
undertaking, and the N.S. W. League of Wheelmen must
anticipate a long life for the present boom. Sydney
doesn't take on to monotonous handicap-heats at a race-
meeting ; and something more than the ordinary riders
will be required, even if the prize is a thousand pounds.
The public is only' mildly 7 interested, whether the race is
worth £lOOO or a' like number of pence ; it wants variety
and sensationalism. And, judging by the Melbourne
Austral (which is worth £500), there isn’t much fun in a
handicap extending over a couple of days. Howev r, as
the Austral draws an entry 7 of nearly 7 180, it is estimated
that the entry for the Sydney race will total past the 200.
• •* f *
J. M. Hamilton represents M.L. at the forth-
coming Brisbane swimming tournament. He was picked
after winning a couple of championships ; but the meet-
ing was held in such an out-of-the-way place that few
good men turned up. Times recorded were poor, and
within a week were beaten by Claude Bullivant, a young
swimmer of great promise, who is barely 19 yet, and who
met Cavill and Lane when they last visited M.L.
• V * •
George Read’s injured knee-cap didn’t worry
him much in the 500 yards State swimming supremacy at
Balmain last week. Excepting the 250yds., during which
Craig spurted himself out, Read led all the way and beat
boy Corbett by 30yds. in 6.49 2-5. Dick Cavill was unable
to compete owing to the result of revolver practice.
» » * *
A possible aquatic champion this season is
Langdon, of Waverley 7. Originally beaten in the Eastern
Suburbs “hundred ” in 1.7, a fortnight back he did it in
1.3 4-5, and is expected by his club to still further reduce
it. Said that Langdon can carry the crawl stroke up to
220yds., and will use it at the forthcoming furlong State
championship. Langdon is short, well set, and decidedly
strong.
• • • *
Queensland 100yds. swimming supremacy saw
brothers Dan and Frank Gailey and VV. Hetherington fill
the places—first-named winning in 1.4 by 2,vds. from
Hetherington. Fact of Frank Gailey being third sur-
prises Sydney swimmers, as he represent* d Q. in Aus-
tralasian championships decided at M.L. last year. A
really good swimmer then, F.G. looked like improving
much this season.
• • • a
A specimen of splendid vitality is W. Abley, a
one-time top-notch walker who, though on the wrong
side of seventy, is still able to reel off a mile in about
7tnin. and is a familiar figure in exhibition “ walks” on
Vic. country sports-grounds. On New Year’s Day at
Apsley he left a two-mile distance behind in a trifle over
15min.
• • a a
Whether by mere coincidence or not. the new
way of applying for tickets in Tattersall’s sweeps has
brought luck to S.A. The Wheat State, rarely appearing
among the winners before, has had two first horses and
two seconds within the last six months, totalling well over
£lO,OOO. First in the Perth Cup is the latest success to
an Adelaide syndicate.
• a a a
N.S.W.-S.A. cricket match began Friday, and
dragged along wearily till Tuesday afternoon. S.A.
batted first, and by Saturday had put up 412. By
Monday night N.S.W. had hit up 545, and S.A. scored 60
without losing a wicket. Tuesday afternoon saw them
all out for 134. Howell and Kelly resumed for N.S.W.,
and before they could score sundries accounted for four,
and left N.S.W. victorious by 10 wickets and three runs. ’
• * • *
Should Maclaren bring out a team next season,
it is to be managed, so far as N S.VV. is concerned, by the
local cricket association. Like most N.S.W. institutions,
the Sydney Association is strikingly slow off its mark—
never yet has it brought out unaided an English team.
N.S.W., too, is not only the leading State on the field
(apparently, with a little luck, it could beat Victoria r.nd
S.A. combined), but it supplies about 65 per cent, of the
financial support to the visiting teams ; it is on the fix-
tures on the Sydney cricket ground that the promoter*
confidently rei.v for their greatest profits. In future, the
local folk intend to keep the Sydney takings to them-
selves and the visiting teams, paying all the expenses
incurred in their State only. Any other State can do the
same, and the M.C.O. has consented to the arrangement
which, of course, means everything.
* • * •
Reversals of form in cricket are as startling
as those in gee-gee racing. Trumper, a couple of
seasons ago, failed badly in inter-State cricket, while
piling up vast scores in club cricket against bowling prac-
tically as good. Charlie Gregory is apparently in the
same position this season, having done next to nothing in
inter-State fixtures after tall scores, including a couple of
centuries, among the clubs. There may have been some
slight difference in the bowling, but it was not pro-
portionate to the difference in the scoring.
Just concluded N.S.W. - Queensland cricket
fixture resulted in a profit of £2OO to N.S.W. Cricket
Association the most profitable up to date be-
tween those States. The final destination of all these
profits is a deep mystery. Either the association should
be compelled to start a Disabled Cricketers' Fund or the
whole of the year’s surplus should be paid over to the
State Charities Dept. The men who play the cricket and
really provide the show which draws the money do not
get anything but bare expenses, and if the men who
actually earn the loot do not get it, it should certainly be
devoted to charity.
• • • •
Though Trumper-Duff 298 is a first-wicket
best for Australian batsmen it isn’t an Australian record
—that belongs to Englishmen Maclaren and Hayward
who made 314 against N.S.W. last season. Previous Aus-
tralian batsmen’s top figures (184) belonged to Darling
and Lyons, and were made for S.A. against Vic-
toria five years ago. World’s best under like conditions
was accomplished by J. T. Brown (300) and E. Tunnicliffe
(243), who gathered 554 in the interests of Yorkshire,
opposed to Derbyshire, four years back. This excels all
wicket records. In Jan., 1902, N.S.W. created a world’s
record total of 918 at the expense of S.A. in Sydney. In
this there were five partnerships (each of which brought
something in excess of 100), and five individual cen-
turies.
* * * •
“Jab.” : Be recent Bulletin par. anent money
taken at doors on occasion of demonstration to YictJr
Trumper at Sydney Town Hall. Explained that it was
never conveyed in any way that surplus “ gate ” would
go to Trumper. Crown-street Old Boys’ Union undertook
the responsibility, and ran the risk of having to shel. out
if the thing failed, hence that institution benefits to the
extent of what has been made over and above outlaw
• * * ■
F. E. Allan, the Australian bowler of auld lang
syne, complains that inter-State cricket nowadays is
played in the same time-wasting style which had become
the' rule in England prior to the advent of the first
Australian Eleven, in 1878. Anyone who can remember
an ordinary English county match 25 years ago will
endorse what “ the bowler of a century ” says about the
awakening influence of the Australian invasion.. Tie
visitors—Allan was one of them—put new life into the
English game by setting an example of enthusiasm and
spr.vness to the lazy, mechanical pros., and the .fussy,
frilly “gentlemen amateurs” of the period.
reporters praised the Australians for their businesslike
punctuality and general alertness, the crowd became
intolerant of the delays and the careless fielding they
had so long been accustomed to, and the local men wc-ke
up. What the Australians did for cricket at’Ome is a
matter of history. All the same, veteran Allan'hasn't
discovered a new grievance. Inter-State cricket
was never more tiresome than in the early g s,
when Murdoch, and Tommy Horan, and other boys of
the old brigade, used to fool around the wicket
between their strokes and “ spar for wind,” so to speak.
But the public were more patient then. They want mere
sport for their money these times. F. E." Allans the
active cricketer of yore, has settled down to be one of the
public, and he complains with the rest of them.
* • * *
Late softgooda Senator Sargood bad the military
microbe badly, but even that worked some good, arid the
dead senator gave many prizes in money and kind to Vic-
torian riflemen. During the past couple of years he must
have given at least 300 Martini-Enfield rifles, and the
ownership of many of them is still undecided. He
founded the cadet system of the State, and at the cadets’
14th annual match recently the “ Sargood Shields ” were
competed for.
■ • « •
Concerning Sydney bowling pennant struggle,
Saturday left VVaverley and Petersham the only unbeaten
teams. Victoria Park and City, looked upon as sure
winners, have each gone under once. Victoria Park and
St. George sustained their first defeat on Saturday, while
Strathfield went under a second time and vanished from
the contest. Of the six clubs eligible to continue, the
City shows the biggest pile of points for, and the smallest
against.
• • • *
M.L. tennis championships were interesting,
and bristled with good play. Singles fell to H. A. Parker’
who defeated last year’s winner, A. J. Peacock. Subse-
quently, last-named and Fisher won the doubles
supremacy. Parker and ex-champion Gore were asso-
ciated in this, but they didn’t survive the semi-finals,
though the doubles handicap fell to them operating from’
a back mark. Ladies’ singles went to Miss Nunneley, who
has spread herself over all similar events since, and
inclusive of, ’95. In ’96, she won the ladies’ singles* top-
notchership of N.S.W., and, a year later, with Mjss
Howitt, gathered up the ladies’ doubles championship of
the same State. H. A. Parker—latest winner of M.L.
gentlemen’s premiership—owned the same honor for
years until 1900, when Victorian A. W. Dunlop beat hint.
Parker was in England in 1901, where, during 15 months
sojourn, he figured in eight tourneys and won 10 prizes.
• • • •
Maoriland Rugby Union is anxious to send an-
other team to Britain, but the English governing body
refuses to guarantee the financial returns, and insists
upon treating the team as piofessionals. There is also
talk of an Australian tour by an English Association
team in 1904, under Jessop’s leadership. If it dues
eventuate, ’tig to be hoped Jessop’s toeball reputation
won’t slump like his leather-slogging one aid in this
country.
* * • *
“Cocker” Tweedie, once lightweight champ,
of Australia, and ex-Broken Hill miner Hiseutt bruise.it
Sydney Gaiety A.C. last week extended over 10 rounds,
and was mildly exciting and fairly clever. Tweedie,
anxious to retrieve his reputation, had trained well, and
instead of, as heretofore, depending mainly upon smart
evasive methods, he went in and fought, often taking a
punch that wouldn’t have landed but for his desire to
mix it. Tweedie has not achieved his old-time cleverness,
but is shaping well. Towards the finish his strength
petered out a deal—mainly through the manner in \fhich
he had forced things—but skill kept him on deck till the
tenth round when he was sent star-gazing twice. Then the
police stopped the fight, whereupon referee McDonald
gave the money to Hiseutt ; which was wrongs for
Tweedie had scored 20 to 1 better than the silver digger
and was certainly not knocked out.
* * * *
Liverpool (N.S.W.) axeman, Bill Heckenberg,
who now wears the scalps of heavyweights Smith and
Booth (each of whom at one stage of his battle looked a
sure winner), is matched against ’Murkan Jim Scanlan ;
which brings him up among the best in the country.
They fight at Sydney National 8.0., Feb. 3—a week
before the Creedon-M‘Oall contest for Australasian
heavyweight championship. As the woodchopper is a
hard nut to crack—so insensible to heavy punching,
and so full of recuperative power—Scanlan will have to
fight better than he did with “ Soldier Bill” Thompson
or Billy ” M‘Call at Newcastle, to win. Heckenberg can
take weightier blows than the Yankee serves out as a
rule, and hits like a steam-hammer.
* ‘ «
“Nob” : Residents of Inglewood (Vic.)—M. J.
Long and D. H. Cooper—recently finished a 12 months
cnb match. They met 199 times and played
3110 games. Long won 1659. Cooper 1451. Twice
Cooper held three fives and, turning up a fourth, scored
20. Same man also had one crib of 24 while Long had
two. These were the highest scores throughout. Has
this a parallel?
* * * * .
One hears it said, in excuse for the muddling
ways of wheel racers : “ If the front men were to r.de
hard from the start, the back men would never get up.”
But it would be the handicapper’s business to see that
the back men and the middle men we re given a show to
catch the limit man in the last lap. Then how about the
preemus pace-making arrangements, and the necessity
for the scratch man to make his sprint on the extreme
outside of the field, if all the others were finishing in a
line t, Tact is, a bicycle race on a }-mile circular track
. esn t present itself to the professional mind as a sport-
ing contest, such as a handicap footrace ought to be, but
generally isn’t. What’s the good of a long start to a limit
man who wants someone to pace him?
FOR DOLLY AND THE KID.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Kalgoorlie Cup-night, and the hall
Is packed from stage to door ;
I hardly seem to realise
It’s me that takes the floor.
I swore to Dolly, when I left,
I’d “ chuck ” the fight for pay,
And here I’m sitting, stripped to meet
A bloke from Bulong way.
These fields ain’t all a “ Golden Mile,”
We’re not all Fords or Greys,
And men with wivqs and kids to keep ■
“ Get round ” in various ways.
I’ve pot had average specker’s luck—
Or dhueked it when I did—
It’s up to me to make a bit
For Dolly and the kid.
They say he’s clever, game and well—
I wish 1 was as fit:
Tinned-dog-meat, tea and soda-bread—
You can’trget right on it.
Still I’m not feeling much amiss,
And four-ounce gloves don’t kill.
Not frequently, at all events,
I’m chancing “ Rushing Bill."
Round One. A cautious, circling spar,
A lead from Bill, a slip—
First blood to me—a choppy left
That Bill stops with his lip.
I think he’s mine, and, mentally.
I wire a hundred quid
To 40 Sloper-street, E.M.,
For Dolly and the kid.
Round Eight. A haze of whirling forms
With several Bills in sight;
A staggering mix, my jaw collides—
I’m told —with William’s right.
A sickening grope upon the boards,
The “ cheque ” a far-off song ;
“ Six ” called, “ seven,” “ eight ” —-I reach my knees,
And then—thank God ! —the gong.
Round Nine. The ring-stakes dance and flit;
Then strength returns—l wait.
And feel that I no longer hit
At Bill in duplicate.
His savage rush is steadied down—
My left was out for gore ;
And, whoof! —a lucky right-hand swing
That sends him to the floor.
'He sleeps, does Bill. The Second’s check
Drones on from “ one ” to “ five,”
Before a twitch of William’s limbs
Announces he’s alive.
“ Six,” “seven ”he gasps; “ eight,” “ nine,” he rolls,
“Ten,” and a deafening shout,
And, in a sort of wondering dream,
I hear them yelling “out!”
We had a friendly snifter
Or two —or was it three?
For William—when you know him—
Ain’t bad, take it from me ;
! I almost felt I loved him
When I wired that hundred quid
To forty Sloper-street, E.M.,
For Dolly and the kid.
The Busy Man
.Who eats his breakfast in a lump, takes ten
minutes for lunch, and overloads his stotryieh at
night, needs a searching remedy like Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills to keep his digestive organs in
working order. A Pill after a heavy meal, and
two or three going to bed, keep the liver and
kidneys active, and the stomach clean. Dr.
Morse s Indian Root Pills are a perfect blood-
punhei% they get at the cause and cure all affec-
tions of the digestive organs perfectly and per-
manently. They also are a positive cure for
biliousness, constipation, headaches, sallow com-
plexion, liver and kidney troubles, piles, pimples,
boils and blotches, and for female ailments.*


r »
?
Tha hot stifling: surnmar days are Hare.
W ‘ iy not a Refrigerator, and use Ice?
Keeps all perishable Food in good con-
dition. Makes the distressing heat bear-
Tfeg timely use of Ice often saves life.
® ur Ice is made from distilled water—*
as hard and as clear as crystal. * >9 *9
Sent in special transport boxes to any
rai.way town where not represented by
agencies. SEND FOR. A PRICE LIST
Sftff
j N.S.W. FresK Food Ice Co. Ltd.
Sydney
-
Physical Culture taught by Mail.
beg to announce the establishment of a Depart-
ment of Physical Culture in connection with
our Chief Office at Sydney. The Director of this
Department is Mr. A. W. Bradford, an expert in the
Sargent (American), Swedish and Sandow Systems.
Our Condensed Sj’stem, fifteen minutes each dav,
*i'’ en according to directions, will ensure GOOD
HEALTH, PHYSICAL DEVELOPMENT, and
ELASTICITY OF MIND AND BODY.
Absolutely cures Constipation, Indigestion, Sleep*
10880688, Nervous Exhaustion, and revitalises the
Whole Body.
Pupils of both Sexes, ranging in age from 12 to 60,
will find benefit from our instruction. Full informa-
tion furnished in reply to post-card or personal inquiry.
Canada Cycle and Motor Co. Ltd.
357 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER
YOU GET THE BEST VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY WHEN YOU
BUY A
REMINGTON
Double-Barrel .
Hammerless Gun
Thoroughly Guaranteed.
Kept n stock by the Largest Gun Stores in Melbourne and Sydney.
Remington Arms Company,
Hkad Office: 315 BROADWAY, NEW YORK, U.S.A.
REMINGTON GUNS, £5 10s. to £l5
REMINGTON RIFLES, 23/6 post free
McLEAN BROS. & RIGG, Ltd., 107 Elizabeth-St., Melbourne.
The Veterinarian.
THE DIFFERENT PREPARATIONS OF
“SALVITIS”
FOR HORSES, CATTLE, SHEEP,
PICS, &C. ARE WORTH TRYINC!
SALVITIS Index of Diseases, Free.
Remediessuggested in thisCohnni promptly supplied
by Wholesale Agents for N.S.W.—
E. RICH & COMPANY, Ltd., SYDNEY
“SALYITIS”
Ensures abundance
of EGGS and
Healthy Poultry.
USED BY LEADING BREEDERS —1/-, 5/-, 10/-, 20/-
SALVJTIS ROUP PILLS, 1/6 per box.
Wholesale Agents for N.S.W.—
E. RICH & COMPANY, Ltd., SYDNEY
By Special
Appointment.
G. H. SMITH and SON
TROPICAL HELMET
with special a ir-space,
in white drill, dec. and
in all colors in felt.
10/6 and 12 6
Eat and Cap Manufacturers
and Importers, •
302 Ceorge-st. Sydney
Sombrero Soft Felt Hats,
All Shades and Sizes.
Soft Felt Hombergs.
In all Sizes and Colors.
Straw Hats. Stetson Hats
Polo Caps, Military and Naval
Caps, Livjry Hats, Clbrical Silr
Hats, Etc., Mads to Ordbb
m
■ ’ •••
m
-
t ■
EAR
TfOR NIGH A CENTURY
WILLIAMS’ BARBERS’ BAR
has been the FAITHFUL FRIEND of the
TONSORIAL ARTIST.
TO-DAY, The Potent Phrase. “THIS SHOP USES ONLY
WILLIAMS’!” is a Sure PASSPORT TO PUBLIC FAVOR.
Send a Penny Stamp for Williams’ Changing Face
Puzzle. Can you explain it? J. B. WILLIAMS CO.,
Glastonbury, Conn., U.S.A. ; and 232 Clarence-st., Sydney
SHRRPSHOOTINfi
For Sport and War.
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARK l
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/- nett. ;
Posted, 1/2.
The beet 1/- worth ever Published.
BF you wish to get good work and value
you should purcha- W. W. GREENER’S
World-Renowned GO 3 and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
(Greener’s Representative).
m.
KT
X
Si
lif>R the Del-sou vuio is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “Ellis’ King Street Coffee Palaoe,” ~»J
situated at 60 KING STREET, and new the General Post
o flj ce Proprietor—QUO. n. BLLIa.
Martin’s Apiol and Steel Pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia, price 4s. 6d.
Agents: Sayers, Allport, and Potter, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor, W. Martin, Pharmaceutical
Chemist, Southampton, England.*
Even the common, honorary beak of
Victoria seetns to have but a poor opinion of the
wages paid in the local jam factories. On being
informed that a girl who was charged at a
suburban court with stealing half-a crown from
her brother-in-law was employed at the local
“squash,” the presiding J.P. exclaimed, “Well,
what else can you expect?” Possibly he didn’t
quite intend that insult to a brother employer,
but it’s to be hoped he did.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.
“ The proposed Federal City,” a pamph’et
by Mr. John Young—the eminent ex-contractor—
of Annandale, Sydney, doesn’t throw much new
light on the Federal City problem, but itcertainly
throws some other things less desirable. Tie
writer has some good and highly commendable
views as to how a model city should be built;
these are not at all new, but still, in the
main, they are excellent, and much valuable
detail is given. Mr. Young also urges that the
city should be built on a 2000 or 3000 ft. elevation
—a point which The Bulletin has strongly in-
sisted upon. But he grumbles the old, silly grumble
because one session of the Australian Parliament
has passed without the site for a capital being
selected ; yet he doesn’t seem to be any nearer
to a definite opinion as to where the city
should be than the Australian Parliament is—
perhaps not so near. He doesn’t urge with any
energy worth mentioning the necessity of re-
serving a large area (5000 sq. miles or so) for the
Federal Territory, so that the increase of
land - values created by the expenditure of
public money on a new city shall be all,
or nearly all, Federal property, and not
be an increase in the value of privately-
owned land inside the Federal Territory ; and so
that all the required water catchment area shall
be under Federal control. The absolute necessity
for making the soil of the Federal territory the
inalienable property of the Commonwealth for
ever, and of planting the Federal Territory where
it w m’t be wholly surrounded by the territory of
one State, and thus, to some extent, dominated by
that State in the matterof railway communication,
&c., is not even mentioned And the villainous
cloven hoof of syndicatism sticks out conspicuously
in John Young’s suggestion that a “ British,
American, or Australian trust or company ”
should get the job of laying out the new city,
paving, draining, lighting, bringing in water, &c.,
the reason assigned being that “ the Government
will only make a mess of it, as is not unusual in
Government undertakings.” Australia has many
recollections of British and American trusts or
companies—the Mildura Co., the Maoriland Mid-
land Railway Co., the Tasmanian Main Line Co.,
the Emu Bay Railway Co., the V.D.L. Co., the
Midland Railway Co. of W.A., the Adelaide
tramway-grab affair, the Brisbane Tramway Co.,
the Australian Agricultural Co., Hampden Plains
Co., South Australian Co., Peel River Co., the
dawdling Great Western Railway Co. of Tas-
mania, the Westralian timber companies, the
Great Southern Railway Co. of W.A., and many
others; and, after looking at the awful conse-
quences, it would rather trust to O’Sullivan.
The State is reckless, but honest, in so far as our
rulers very, very seldom do public swindles for
the benefit of their private pockets. Syndicatism
is reckless, and a hopeless swindle to boot.
THE NEW
VULCANISED?
DUAILPP
TYRE
• •
iin»
This Tyre
ff is vulcanised by our patent process under
V a hydraulic pressure of 1200 lbs. to the
square inch, rendering parting of rubber
and fabric an impossibility—thus saving
fully 50 per cent, of the ordinary tyre troubles. 1
ASK YOUR. AGENT
to show you a sample,
IT WILL DO THE REST.
None Genuine unless the Cover is
embossed with the word “ Vulcanised”
and this Etr-
mark
TRADE
hH
15
PERFECT
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Aus. Ltd.
150 Clarence Street, Sydney . . ♦
AJCD AT
M~** . Adelaida, Partb, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.
Colonel Madley and Inspector Sullivan,
chiefs of Adelaide police force, are very proud of
the fact that there was not a single arrest for
drunkenness in the city on New Year’s Eve. The
constables gave liquor considerable latitude, and
men who could carry their internal breweries and
distilleries respectably were not interfered with.
All the housebreakers and pickpockets were lured
into indiscretions and locked-up before the holi-
days so as to ensure a comfortable Xmas.
Dec. 20 a Bulletin correspondent used
the word “ tabloid ” in a par. re the provisioning
of life-boats (meaning a compressed and easily
portable form of food-preparation). Burroughs,
Wellcome and Co., the noted manufacturing
chemists, now write pointing out that “tabloid”
is, as a word, their private property, coined by
them and legally usable only as regards their pro-
ducts. Fact is that B.W. and Co.’s “tabloids”
have won so wide a world-vogue that the word
has become a part of the English language.
Whether a firm can exercise a legal remedy
against the language for this sort of robbery is a
very nice point indeed.
The newly-enfranchised women voters of
N.S.W. should read The Bulletin’s “A Policy
for the Commonwealth,” by James Edmond.
Post free from Bulletin office for 7d.
It is a common gibe that the Australian Govern-
ment is “ subservient to the Labor party.” Sup-
posing it is, what else could be reasonably
expected ? The Labor party is the only one with
an all-Australian programme and an all-Aus-
tralian organisation. It is the only one which
doesn’t split up regularly over alleged “State
rights,” and fly off the handle over State preju-
dices, and which doesn’t run amok and demand
that the whole globe shall be given to its particu-
lar State. The Queensland section isn’t liable to
leave the Government in the lurch over a demand
that the anti-Alien Law shall be suspended as
regards its State, nor does the N.S.W. section
want to know why a big marble capital hasn’t
been built in its State inside 18 months ; nor
does the S.A. section demand quite all
the waters of the Murray for its own
use. A party which knows what it wants,
and states its position exactly, which sel-
dom has parochial fits or local starts, which
doesn’t disrupt every now and then into three or
four State factions each demanding the whole
earth, which is an Australian party—-not a mass of
Kilkenny cats, is a glad thing for any Government
to meet. The Labor party is by far the nearest
resemblance to an Australian party that the Aus-
tralian Parliament possesses, and amid the chaos
of State rows any Government might well wish
that there was more of it.
The Jenkins Govt, of S. Aus. wants to get every-
thing at the bargain counter. On education it
spends, according to Coghlan, Bs. 9d, per head
of its population a year, while N.S.W. spends
12s. 4d., Queensland 11s. 3d., and Vic. 10s. 9d. ;
and still it demands it cheaper.
Already of 500 country schools 450 are officered entirely
by untrained people ; when a person of moderate edu-
cation fails in S. Aus., instead of hanging out the sign of
“ general agent ” he becomes a provisional teacher, and
in a few years, and with some luck, he may gi t. nearly £7O
a year. That is one reason why the cost is so low.
Another is the employment of large numbers of women
(on the usual woman-wage scale) to do men’s work. In
Flinders-street (Adelaide) school, the largest in the State,
the last report shows there are 10 teachers, and only two
of them males! And still the Jenkins Govt, wants it a
little cheaper ; and Ministers talked of the great burden
of the free-education system, and trembled Jest it should
“break down of its own weight”; and finally they
appointed a commission of experts to see what was wrong.
If, however, the real object, as some people suspect, was
to get an excuse to resume the collection of school
fees, and so save incomes and estates from a few ext-a
farthings of taxation, the commission must have proved
a sorry disappointment; for it reports that fees cannot
be again collected without impairing efficiency, and Govt,
has said that efficiency must not be impaired. All, in fact,
that the Commission can suggest to turn this very cheap
system into one a little cheaper still is to make the schools
and salaries in each class bear a fixed ratio to the whole.
Hitherto, as schools increased in size, they got into a
higher class, carrying with them higher salaries ; so the
number of high-class schools and salaries has been
growing. For the future, if' this new plan is adopted,
there will be a fixed percentage of the schools in each
class ; and promotion of teachers will be made on the
reports of an advisory board of inspectors. It isn’t a big
or imposing scheme, though in a few years it may make
an annual saving of £13,000 (in a total of about £150,000);
but it is worth mentioning because it aims at a few
anomalies, and almost knocks out the absurd but easy
system of wasting good men because they aren’t so old in
the service as a number of useless ones. And, best of all,
it ought to suffice to knock out the half-ashamed agita-
tion to resume the fee system.


-n't'
"TA
t -1
j--’
~3
N
3fe
J*
„ /r/rfffl?).
rH-P
-\
'&mg.
/
u.
*F
'//
ft
ft
*a»
" yOH Qgd&tu s €iqcoizttet> °
“ Tlo jUi , J seU thorn __ TtlUliorit, of ’em ! ’’
y
J
SPECIAL NOTICE.
U^^ er y° ur notice, in connection with GUINEA GOLD that we have landed the first shipment of 1901 CROP
OF VIRGINIA 10BACC0. It is reputed to be the MILDEST AIND SWEETEST grown for many years, and we have acccordingly started right away to use
this fine new leaf m our Cigarettes. Smokers of GUINEA GOLDS will now find them SWEETER and MILDER than ever.
OGDENS, LIMITED, 45 YORK STREET, SYDNEY,
Extract from the report of an otherwise
dry case concerning chaff, heard recently in
Sydney:—
The defendants said they never agreed, as alleged, and
denied that they would not accept or pay for the goods ;
and that the plaintiffs had not fulfilled their contract
within proper and reasonable time ; that the chaff was
not prime, bright, wheaten straw chaff ; that they were
never indebted, as alleged ; and that, before the action
was brought, they satisfied and discharged plaintiff’s
claim for payment.
No doubt it is all right in a legal sense, but to the
non-legal mind it reads that defendants didn’t
order the chaff ; that they didn’t refuse to accept
the chaff they didn’t order ; that the other party
didn’t duly fulfil the agreement which wasn’t
made; that the chaff wasn’t up to the mark
specified in the contract that didn’t exist ; that
defendants never owed for the chaff ; and that
they had already paid the money they didn’t owe.
It doesn’t seem (to the lay mind) as if much could
be piled on that defence, unless defendants added
that they were dead when they made the contract,
and that plaintiff had never been born, and that
both parties were mad and absent from the
country.
When the Sydney alderman sees an open
space, his first idea is to tip garbage on it. The
Waverley aldermen now deposit the public evi-
dence of their dirty habits on a sloping piece of
ground between Ocean and Wellington streets,
Bondi. There are houses all round, and the tip
smells on them with a deafening smell. It isn’t
fenced in ; the garbage is hardly covered at all ;
small boys and animals disturb the gruesome col-
lection and wake up its virulence; and the rains
wash sections of tip down on to the flats below
and spread them over great distances. No tip
ought to be permitted in a populated area unless
an alderman sits on it in his best clothes from
6 a.m. fofit'.m—the nlrtprmeri to take tnr r ' c \
The £lOO prize offered by the Grocers’
Guild in London for a safe oil-lamp is still going
begging. The only conditions are cheapness and
a certainty of going out when upset, but none of
the hundreds of samples submitted have passed
examination.
L
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
pre s vour finger on tilt inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion t If so, under the skin you have poison thjit defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you I erhaps your knees arc swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round \\ liich the skin
may he discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
wal . k °. u . ma y have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; hut do not, for I < AN
Hi i' OU ; •? perhaps ; but 1 WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not how being cured,
feend at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs
Housemaid s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, lum.mrs. Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Knigworm. Of all Chemists. Siores,
*SS?* 1 " Gr «? t liri,ain ’ 1/lid. per bx. Prepared by
a * '^^* r £J ngd ? n ' Btr< * t ’ London, Ei gland.
Agents '• ''-LLiO 1 1 BgOS., Sydney Purchasers stiould
look i oi th ercgi stered trade mark of the Grasshopper on s
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
FREE! FREE!
J
rXX
x
Cut this out and send it to us, and we will send you
free, postage prepaid, in plain wrapper, a copy of the
New Edition of our splendid, invaluable and standard
illustrated medical work, ‘‘Electro Therapeutics,”
which acknowledged medical treatise should be read by
every adult.
The Twentieth Century Belt
Our Improved Belt is the most modern and perfect in the world. It
is stronger than any other, and is a Certain Cure for All Cases of
rvervous Di orders. Weak Back, Lumbago, Rheumatism, Liver. Kidney
and Stomach Troubles, Come-and-Go Pains, and that Tired Feeling. It
will cure after all others fail. Our Belt gives a soothing, warm,
strengthening and delightful current of electricity into the afflicted
nerves and system while you sleep. It never blisters or burns the body,
because it is constructed to give electricity in a proper way.
NO CURE, NO PAY.
Others claim this, but I am the only one who will really send a
valuable belt absolutely free, on trial, for three months. If you are
cured 1 know you will willingly pay ; if you are not cured, you will not
have to pay one penny. Write at once, or call and test my Belt free.
.No charge for personal consultation.
The Dr. J. n. Austin Electric Co.
39 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.
*r
HERR RASSMUSSEN
will guarantee to cure Nervous Weak-
ness, Blood Diseases, Piles, Rheuma-
tism, Corpulency, Liver and Kidney
Troubles. He will send his Book Free.
All correspondence will be held
confidential.
BRISBANE: 309 Queen St.
MELBOURNE: 150 Bourke St.
WEAK, NERVOUS MEN, WHY SUFFER
w
HEN you can be quickly and permanently cured by taking Herr Rasmussen’s A LYALIN'S Vitalitv -Pin., u ,
thousand sufferers from DEBILITY, POOR MEMORY WEAK SPINE vitauty Pills which have cured so many
is dearest to it-Vital Strength. Herr Rassmussen will guaranfeethif Sdf £cnfe everv Cfe' no ma, 1 I "*! M “ h «* a ’*Y“
. give hisskilled advice personally to all patrons of his remedies FREE OF CHARGE either in his offices or bv sta ? d, "g’ and he will
communicate with him without delay, no matter where you live. Treatment by Post a Spec alit j. Pamphlet b
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d., posted.
Blood and Skin Diseases.
Impurities guaranteed remoVeTand £rmanen?iy cured by 6 “ th ® Bladder ’ and Blood
Anaemic Women
—————— ——
ALF ALINE BLOOD PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d. posted.
Sh ° Uld &t ° nCe communicate with HERR
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS will cure them. Boxes, 6s; Courses, 23s 6d
LIVER and KIDNEY TROUBLES cured at once by the ALFALINE LIVER ar.d KIDNEY PILLS, Boxes Is
HlB P - LE PO ™ DERS never fail ; 6 s per box each.
Ihe ALI ALINE REMEDIES can only beobtained from . . . M |m
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office- l*eorge St., SvdneV,
AND HIS BRANCHES AS FOLLOW- «/ t/ "
ADELAIDE: 15 Pulteney St.
N Z.: 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
W.A., PERTH: 481 Hay St.
KALGOORLIE : 111 Hannan St.
FREMANTLE: 117 High St-
BOULDER CITY: Piesse St.


Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Agents for N. S. Wales: Sayers,
Allport and Potter, Sydney. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
TN order to introduce our Gold Wire Jewellery
A to the Australian public we have decided to
offer one of the greatest bargains ever seen in the
jewellery trade— viz., the above handsome Brooch
(any name or three initials) made of extra quality
Oct. gold-filled wire, with heart pendant ; guaran-
teed the same quality as the brooch advertised,
complete. Sent post-free on receipt of P. 0.0. or
M.O. for ss. in round wire or sq. twisted wire, 15ct
gold, filled, Bs. 6d. Illustrated catalogues sent free.
SIMS and ELRICK, Manufacturing Jewellers.
Our only address—
COLE’S BOOK ARCADE, MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA.
PHOTOS
Models from Life, Beautiful Stereo-
scopies, etc. List with 100 Minia-
ture and 3 Cabinet size photos. #
58., P. 0.0. or stamps.
8. REOKNAQEL NAOHF, Munich, 1 Bi loffaoh, 0®; m»ny,
SHIELDS
PATENT
thSQkns' 4
CoiiscrSmuM
QSQktiS
CoKerSmu.o
DOUBLE
THE LIFE
OF YOUR
CORSET
“Prevention is better than Cure”
and the Oktis Corset Shields, put into a new Corset, prevent split seams
and broken bones, and more especially that ugly ridge that so soon
appears, and spoils the appearance of the best fitting gown.
It does not Increase the Size of the Waist
ABk for the OKTIS, and see that you are not put off with Imitations.
On each one appears the name "P. & S.—OKTIS—P. & S.”
Oldsmohile
is the most practical automobile made, and is sold for the lowest price
consistent with good work. It is a runabout for either business or
pleasure, and requires no experience to run.
The construction is the simplest of any automobile—there is no
fire, no boiler to burn out, nothing to watch but the road ahead,
nothing to get out of order.
It will run over any passable road; climbs steep hills; has a speed
of over 25 miles an hour; is almost noiseless; will go 30 miles on one
gallon of gasoline. It is always ready for instant use and starts at
ease from the seat.
There are now over 5,000 in use. In America they sell for $650.00
(^" l 3°), ar *d can be sold in this
country for only a little more.
Write to us and we will quote
you a price delivered at your
nearest port, and will mail you
handsome illustrated book giving
complete information.
Agents wanted in unoccupied
foreign territory.
7m
Olds Motor Works,
Detroit, Mich.,
U. S. A.
.X (D
■ L
T y ■ ' ' v/'
mm '/m
/x ///
L
iTTLE
IVER
PILLSfI
There’s SECURITY in
r Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER,
i FURRED TONGUE.
i
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION. 1
DIZZINESS
SALLOW SKIN.
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
They TOUCH the
Be
LIVER
Sure they are Carter's
THE OWL CUT-RATE DRUG CO.,
MANUFACTURING
CHEMISTS.
THE FOLLOWING USEFUL LINES ALWAYS KEPT IN STOCK
Fincham’s Gout and Rheumatic Pills cure all cases of
Gout and Rheumatism, Lumbago and Sciatica.
Fincham’s Glycerine and Linseed Balsam—a positive
cure for Coughs, Asthma, Bronchitis, Influenza
and First Stages of Consumption.
Dr. Wilson’s Celebrated Neuralgia Mixture —a cure
for all cases of Neuralgia or Headache.
Fincham’s Antiseptic Rose Dentifrice—For Beautify-
ing and Preserving the Teeth ; a harmless pre-
Dr. Jones’°Obesity Cure-a blessing to people suffer-
ing from excessive stoutness.
Fincham’s Special Pile Cure—a sure remedy.
Fincham’s Infallible Worm Powders—a certain cure
for all kinds of Worms in Children.
“ Pearline ” Face Bleach—Clears the Skin from spots,
Redness, Roughness, Freckles, Tan, &c. Leaves
it healthy, soft and beautiful.
Fits—Epilep.—a sure cure for Epilepsy in all its forms.
Sole Agent for Dr. Clarkson’s Reinvigorator—a vital-
ising Brain, Muscle and Blood Stimulant. We
stilloffer £lOO for any case of nerve exhaustion
which we cannot cure. Price, 7s 6d per bottle,
3 bottles fl-
Our Genuine Electric “Belt,” £1 only. Specially
Certificated.
Address:
O. P. FINCHAM, Chemist.
THE OWL CUT-RATE DRUG CO.,
227 ELIZABETH STREET, Opp. HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
FOR THE BUSH WORKER
BuAr
am
A SOOTHING BALM and EMBROCATION. Will be found
a CERTAIN CURE for Cuts, Burns, Boils, Barcoo,
Eczema, Sprains, Ringworm, Sore Feet, Piles all
forms of Skin Di-tease or Muscular Affections, etc.
From all Chemists, 1/6 per Tin. A FREE SAMPLE will
be sent you. Address the
ZAM-BUK CO., 39 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Enclose Penny Stamp for postage, and mention this paper.
Melbourne
1
Musical
Magazine
The Music Book of
the Year.
&7
Contents
1. Absence Makes the Heart Grow
Fonder
As Sung by Miss Jennie Opie and
Sam Holdsworth
2. My African Queen
Barney Fagan’s great Coon Song
3. The Bismark Grenadiers
Miss Byron’s quaint little Song
4. Whisper My Name to Nell
Sweetly pretty, a lover’s Song
5. Terry, Terry
An Irish Song of great merit
6. Sweethearts Still
A pathetic Song, with a true rin
about it
7. The Sweetest Words
A sweet little baby Song, would
suit a little girl to sing
8. Good Night, Daddy
Sweetly pretty, of delightful simplicity
9. One Always Loves You, and
That One’s Me
The title suggests the style
10. The Huntsman
Something jolly, of the great Dan
Leno’s, a great thing for At Homes
or Concerts
11. Jack to the Fore
A fine, rollicking, breezy Sea Song
for Baritone
12. Fallen by the Wayside
By the Composer of
" While the Dance Goes On ”
13. The Best of Friends Must Part
One Shilling. K"' 1,
For Sale by all Music and Booksellers in
Australasia.
UUa/i-4”
COLLINS ST., Melbourne,
v Mention this paper.
TRADE MARK .
Fox Bros. & Co., Ltd., warn
the Public that their Trade
Mark consists
ONLY
of the word
FOX
which is a guarantee of sound'
ness of material and Quality
of Dye of all
Worsted Coatings,
Serges i Jweeds
on which it is stamped.
As the result of many years
of experience
fox’s pure 3nDigo Dye
is recognised as the best in the
market. All FOX'S standard
cloths are stamped every two
yards on the back
FOX
PURE INDIGO
and without this stamp are
not genuine. These celebrated
serges can be obtained from the
leading Tailors and Drapers
throughout the Colonies.
FOX B!t03. & Co., Ltd.,
Wellington, Somerset, Eng.
IAYNE’S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE WORSTCOUCHS.
The Hypocrite.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Thb man had just gone who was to be her husband
in a week’s time. She was angry with herself for
caring so very little, and with him for caring
so much. She was sick of herself, of him, of
everything. Sick to death of acting up to the
man’s ideal of her, of listening with soft smiling
eyes to words that had no meaning for her. She
roamed round the room restlessly, wondering how
she could get rid of her thoughts. The sight of
the writing-paper lying on the table suggested that
she would put them down on paper, write them
down in all their cruel hard truth :
Dear Philip,—You have just gone, and lam glad If
you only-knew how you weary me, how deadly tired lam
of hearing you sav you love me, you would never mention
it again as long as you live. To-night when you kissed
me I wished I was dead. O God !It reminded me of a
night five years ago when the man I loved held me in his
arms and kissed me. Only once. Only one instant. But
long enough to dry up all the blood round my heart and
make it like a dead thing. I knew it would never be re-
peated. .1 knew he did not care as I did, but kissed me
because of the love he read in my eyes.
You say my eyes are hard to read, that they refuse to
tell you anything. Are you blind ? Can’t you see that
they are cold because there is no fire in my heart for you •
nothing behind them when they look on you ?
You think I am shy of showing my love ; that I fear to
let vou see how great it is. And you honor me for my
modesty.
And yet they say you are clever ; that you are the most
brilliant man in your profession. Perhaps it is because
your intellect is so immense that you cannot stoop low
enough to see through a woman’s shams.
Philip, I’m going to marry you because you are rich ;
be ause I’m tired of being poor ; tired of wearing cheap
frocks and shabby boots. One day I found a white hair
in my head. That night I promised to be your wife.
You may thank the white hair for that.
In all the world to night I don’t think there is a woman
so miserable as I. And it is because of the part of me
that is dead, the part that you never knew, for it died
five years ago. The Me of then would not know the Me
who is going to marry you. The other Me would scorn
to do what I will do next week. But then I did not know
that the rosy apples were made of cinder. I believed
that life was sweet and fair, and that heart-aches and
bitterness were only the wages of sin.
Well, I’ve written what was in my heart, and, if I
rlaredj;l would let you read it. You would hate me. A
man never forgives the woman who tells him the truth.
So I must not, for I know there will be more white
hairs soon.
Through force of habit I’ll sign myself,
Your loving
Edtth.
She laughed as she read over the startling truths
she had written, and decided not to destroy the
paper till the morning. Pushing it under the
blotting-pad she went to bed.
The next day she had to go into town early to
have her wedding-dress fitted on, and was so tired
by the time the dressmaker was finished with her
that she went home earlier than she intended.
When she got in, her sister told her that
Philip was in the drawing-room, and had asked
if he might write a note that he had
forgotten. In a flash she remembered the paper
she had left under the blotting-pad, and, with a
face as white as her handkerchief, went into the
room. -Philip was sitting at the table, and he
held an open letter m his hand. He turned
quiekly when he heard her step, and dropped the
paper as lie came to meet her with outstretched
hands.
“Darling,” he said, looking at her with shining
eyes, “so you had written me a letter! I was
looking for some notepaper when I saw my name.
I did not get any further, but I’ll read it now, if I
may.”
The girl had it in her hands, and was holding it
tightly as she smiled up into his face.
“No, Phil,” she said, “I’ll read it to you. You
sit over there in that armchair, and if you move
once I’ll tear it up.” The man laughed as he did
what she said, and watched her as she stood near
the door and read :
Dear Philip,—You have only just left me, and yet I feel
I must write to you before Igo to bed. I want to tell you
how happy I am. How proud that you should choose me
from all other women to be your wife. [Oh, I don’t think
I’ll read any more. Well, you must not come near me.
or I really will tear it up.] You who are so clever and
brilliant. . . . They say that you are the most brilliant
man at the Bar ! Is it any wonder that I feel .. . shy
with you sometimes? lam frightened that you will dis-
cover what a silly little thing I am, and that ... I will
bore you. (No, don’t come over, Phil, or I’ll keep my
word!) Do you know why lam going to marry you?
Because . . . because .. . (she seemed to have lost her
breath) because I . . . love you !
The man came to her and put his arms round
her. He looked deep down into her eyes as
though he would read her very soul. What lie
saw there seemed to satisfy him, for he said,
“ You need not read any more, Edith. You have
said the words that are the sweetest in the world
for me to hear. And I will keep the letter they
were written in until lam dead.”
But the girl was fiercely tearing up the paper
and had thrown the bits into the fire before the
man could prevent her. One little fragment he
rescued, and the girl’s heart stood still as she saw
there was writing on it. “Your loving Edith,”
he read aloud. “Well, I’m glad I’ve got that
much of my letter,” he said with a laugh, “and
I’ll keep it as a memento of the dearest letter
you ever wrote me.”
ALICE MACK.


Mr. James Alston’s steel windmill factory,
South Melbourne, is the largest concern in the
Australian States for the manufacture of these
essential aids to settlement. And his work goes
outside of this country. The fame of his mills is
world-wide. They are suitable for all class of
work, from supplying a household to flooding an
irrigation field. Many a farmer and grazier in
the dry districts speaks with gratitude of the
Alston Steam Windmill.*
Patents for Inventions.— Arthur Griffith
and Allen, International Patent Agents and Con-
sulting Engineers, University Chambers, Phillip-
street, Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyright
throughout the world.*
COMMISSIONERS OF
SAVINGS BANKS.
FIFTH ISSUE
OP
Debentures for £lOO,OOO,
at 3 2 l Per Cent.,
to nature 30th April, 1908.
To be issued under the authority of the
Acts of Parliament of Victoria,
Nos. 1481, 1722, and 1778.
CONDITIONS FOR TENDERS.
1. Tenders will be receivable at the Commissioners’
Head Office, 29 Market-street, Melbourne, for the whole
or any portion of the above amount until noon on Thurs-
day, 29th January, 1903, when tenders will be opened in
the presence of tenderers or their agents who may
attend
2. Each tender must be sealed, addressed to “The
Commissioner of Savings Banks, Melbourne,” and en-
dorsed “ Tender for Debentures.”
3. Debentures will be issued in denominations of £lOO,
or £5OO, as may be desired by successful tenderers, and’
applicants must state in their tenders the number and
value of the debentures they desire to receive.
4. Interest at 3£ per cent, per annum will be payable
half-yearly on 30th April and 31st October, the first such
payment being due on 31st October, 1903, at the Commis-
sioner’s Head Office, or at any Savings Bank in Victoria.
5. Any tender below £99 per £lOO will not be enter-
tained.
6. Tenderers of the highest premium will have pre-
ference. and to tenderers of even rates, debentures will
be allotted proportionately to the applications as nearly
as may be practicable. Tenders at a price includin', a
fraction of a shilling other than sixpence will not "be
preferentially accepted by reason of such fraction.
7. Any tender received from the Savings Banks De-
partment shall not be allowed to compete with other
tenders, but all other tenders shall have preference.
8. Tenders must be accompanied by a deposit in cash
or by a hank draft payable to the Commissioners of
Savings Banks, amounting to 10 per cent, of the face
-value of the debentures applied for, and if the tender be
accepted in full, or pro rata, the balance must be paid on
or before 31st March, 1903 or may be paid at any earlier
date. Interest at 3£ per cent, per annum will be allowed
on accepted tenderer’s lodgments of 10 per cent, and over
from date of receipt to 30th April, 1903, and will be pay-
able up to that date on the issue of the debentures.
9. The deposit of 10 per cent, will be forfeited to and
become the absolute property of the Commissioners in
the event of the balance remaining unpaid after the dates
above specified.
10. Commission will be allowed, only to brokers who
are members of recognised Stock Exchanges, at the rate
of ten shillings per cent, on the face value of debentures
for accepted tenders.
11. Principal will be payable at the
Commissioners in Melbourne.
Head Office of the
12. The due payment of these debentures, and of all
interest thereon, is a charge on all the securities held by
and the funds of the Commissioners, under Division 3 of
Part 1 of the Act No. 1481, and is also guaranteed bv the
Government of Victoria. J
13. Copies of the authorising Acts may be inspected
and conditions and form of tender can be obtained upon
application at the Head Office of the Commissioners or
any of their Savings Banks.
14. By Section 36 of Act 1481, Section sof Act 1722 and
Sectmn 13 of Act 1778, any corporate body, Charitable or
I riendly Society, may invest any portion of the funds or
moneys under their control in the purchase of these
debentures , and any executors, administrators or trus
tees having the power or duty of investing any moneys
may purchase these debentures with or out of such
moneys (unless forbidden to do so by the Act or instru'
ment under which they act) and every such investment
and purchase shall be deemed a due investment of anv
such funds or moneys. y
By order of the Board,
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspect or-General of Savings Banks.
Slst December, 1903
CINEMATOGRAPH.
Paul’s New Century Animatograpb, £6O
Paul’s Celebrated Picture Films, 9d,
per foot.
Full Particulars on Application to Paul’s Agents, viz. ■
W. WATSON & SONS,
78 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Amusements.
Lyceum theatre, syd nTy^
Lessee Mr. Wm. Anderson.
Sub Lessee .. .. Bland Holt.
EVERY EVENING,
Up-to-date and Full of Local Interest and Color
BLAND HOLT’S Australian Melodrama '
THE BREAKING OF THE DROUGHT.
POPULAR PRICES—3s,, 25., Is. Box Plan at Elvv’s
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.'
Q RITE RI ON THEAT R E, SYDNEY!
SOLE LESSEE .. .. Mr. JOHN F. SHERIDAN.
Manager Mr. Frank Weathersby.
EVERY EVENING at 7.45.
4th WEEK 4th
C I TNT D E R E L L A.
Sydney’s Own and Only Pantomime.
THE COMEDIAN’S REVELS.
JOHN F. SHERIDAN as Baron Bounder.
MATINEES Every WEDNESDAY & SATURDAY, 2 p.m.
Doors Open, 1 p.m.
BOX PLAN FOR BOOKING,
WHITE ROSE CONFECTIONERY, ROYAL ARCADE
269 PITT-STREET.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. 6d. and Is.
for booking and early doors.
Is. will be charged
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Under the Direction of MR. GEORGE MUSGROVE.
Manager, Mr. T. P. Hudson.
Continued Triumphant Success of GEORGE MUSGROVE’S
NEW COMIC OPERA CO.
IMPORTANT MUSICAL EVENT.
SAT., JAN. 17, First Production in Australia of the
Hungarian Comic Opera, THE FORTUNE TELLER.
Special Engagement of MADAME SLAPOFFSKI and
MR. LEMPRIERE PRINGLE.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan Now Open at Nicholson’s.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessees .. .. .. Messrs. Lee and Rial.
Under the Direction of MR. J. C. WILLIAVISON.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
Splendid Success of Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY in
PAUL JONES.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
fXENTENARY HALL, YORK STREET.
LAST THREE NIGHTS of
M’ADOO’S FISK
JUBILEE SIN6ERS.
BIGGER, BRIGHTER, BETTER THAN EVER.
ENTIRE CHANGE OF PROGRAMME.
POPULAR PRICES—3s., 25., Is.
IVAN JAMES, Advance Manager.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
Splendid Success of FRHD POPLAR, Miss KITTY WACEP,
THE SCHENK BROTHERS.
L Series of Triumphs scored by J. W. WINTON and
M'CINTY, the Clever Ventriloquial Entertainer.
MISS JENNIE OPIE, THE LAMONTS and their Per-
forming Dogs, Master OLIVE COOK, SYLVIA WILSON,
MALVENA MOORE. CLARENCE SISTERS. ERNEST
SULLIVAN, PEARL LOVELL, WILL WOODS, and
all our Great Tivoli Co.
Rickards’ new opera house,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mr. HARRY RICKARDS.
EVERY EVENING, at 8 p.m.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS at 2.30p.m.
SPRY and MONTI. WALLACE BROWNLOW.
ELIEEN BOYO. ELSIE M‘LACHLAN.
A. C. SPRY. C. W. HUNTER. LES WARTON
DIAMOND DUO. WELBY COOKE.
Prices—2s. 6d., 25., Is.
Plan at Allan’s.
DRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
ANOTHER DRAMATIC TRIUMPH
For MISS NELLIE STEWART and Mr. George Musgrove's
New English Dramatic Co., in two Great London Suc-
cesses in One Performance, A COUNTRY MOUSE, and
THE PANTOMIME REHEARSAL. ' -
USUAL PRICES.
Box Ptan at Allan's.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
■ Lessee Mr. Bland Holt.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. William Anderson.
Bus. Manasrer, James Hendy. Treas., Julius Grant.
WILLIAM ANDERSON'S Famous Dramatic Organisation
headed by Miss EUGENIE DUGGAN.
FRIDAY, JANUARY 16, LAST NIGHT of
THE POWER AND THE GLORY.
SAT., JAN. 17, Elaborate Revival of WHEN LONDON
SLEEPS, with exceptionally inte esting detai 1 .
Prices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan's.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■■ Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. Tallis. Treas., E. J. Tait.
Electric Success of the Greatest Pantomime
Australia has Ever Seen,
DICK WHITTINGTON AND HIS CAT.
Gorgeous Scenery, Costumes and Appointments
and Startling Novelties.
Entrancing Music rendered by an Opera Chorus and an
Opera Orchestra.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allan's. _
qreat art exhibition
NOW OPEN at the
VICTORIAN ART SOCIETIES’ ROOMS
(Conservatorium of Music), Albert-st., East Melbourne,
Under the Direction of Mr. Geo. V. Allen.
A MAGNIFICENT DISPLAY.
350 BRITISH PICTURES, Selected from the Best-known
Painters of the Old World by Mr. E. W. CHRISTMAS,
from the leading Galleries of London, Edinburgh, Glasgow,
and Paris. Open from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., and from 7to
10 p.m. ADMISSION, Is. Illustrated and Descriptive
Catalogue, 6d. E. W. CHRISTMAS, Gen. Manager.
ATHENAEUM HALL, MELBOURNE.
i "
I A GREAT ATTRACTION.
Under the Management of Mr. John H. Teut*
THE BRITISH BEOCRAPH.
Biograph Entertainments on a Scale Never Before
Attempted in Melbourne.
Also, MR. CLIVE O’HARA, the well-known
Illusionist and Conjuror.
OT MATINEES EVERY AFTERNOON at 2.30.
Popular Prices—2s. and Is. Plan at Allan's.
'Ome papers state that Walter Howe, some years back
well-known here as an excellent “ leading man,” has left
off dabbling in the “milky way” and gone back to his
original “starring.” This recondite joke requires ex-
planation. When Howe returned to London, from Aus-
tralia, he “chucked the profesh ” and bought a milk-
walk. He has now returned to the “boards.” The
cow-fluid business seems to be rather a remarkable one
for an actor of ability to take to, but the fact that Walter
was born and brought-up on his father’s farm may account
for his lacteal proclivities.
“ J.A.0.”: The late J. F. Cathcart had a marked vocal
peculiarity which none of your correspondents seemed to
have noticed. He bleated. When Wm. Rignold came to
Australia, some years ago, Cathcart met him and, in
silence, greeted him with outstretched hand. For a
moment W.R. did not recognise his old friend, whom he
had not seen for many years. “ What, William, don’t
you know me?” came in sheeplike tones from “ Jimmy.”
“ Good Lord ! Cathcart! ” was the prompt reply. The
late veteran was certainly not eminent in his profession,
but he never spoiled anything, and in one rdle, Stukely,
in "The Gamester,” in which I saw him in the early Ws
(when he was associated with Mr. and Mrs. Chas. Kean),
he displayed a dramatic power and finesse which would
have been creditable to any actor.
Sandow got a mayoral reception in Sydney. In Maori-
land he only got a demand that he should deposit £25 as
security that he wouldn’t leave the State without paying
his income-tax.
Adelaide had never seen Cinquevalli before, and when
he did his juggling with the heavy cannon-ball the
“ gods ” reckoned it was bluff, and said so. “Chinky”
talked at them for a few minutes, and next night demon-
strated with a hen’s egg and a china plate how he
acquired the trick.
That sound and experienced musical authority, Mr. De
Cairos Rego, late musical critic of Sydney Daily Tele-
graph, writing from London to that paper, says of
Patti : “It must be that she conjures up for her old
admirers all the past glories and delights associated with
her name—a reminiscent pleasure—but to a stranger who
hears her for the first time, there is little in her perform-
ance to create admiration or enjoyment, simply astonish-
ment, that she still does so well. Yet the adulation of
the London audience could scarcely be more pronounced
when Patti was in her prime ; both voice and vocal
style, apparent!}’, were enchanting.” Dealing with a
concert at St. James’s Hall, the writer says : “ Mr. Ben
Davies’ most important contribution was Gounod’s
‘ Salve Dimora,’ and, if one may make comparisons, the
performance of the new English tenor would not rank
alongside that of Mr. Philip Newbury.” Of Florence
Sbhmidt, Mr. Rago reports: “The Queensland soprano
has attained to quite a perfect placing of the voice, and
the charm of her style, so markedly good before she left
Sydney, has gained greatly in significance. Miss Schmidt
is shortly to wed the well-known sculptor, Mr. F. Derwent
Wood.”
G. De Oairos Rego, writing to Sydney D.T. from
London, says that Paderewski has engaged to come to
Australia for a series of recitals, bearinning the first week
in July, 1904, under the management of flautist John
Lemmone. Having heard him a few nights previously at
Ipswich, Mr. Rego, who ought to know, whets the appe-
tite thus: “Power and delicacy, technique and tem-
perament, were so abundantly shown ; he wove such
meaning into the music, and he made the piano so
startlingly eloquent at times, that it is no wonder he
carried his audience away.”
The question of a Williamson and Musgrove combine
will be definitelv settled, one way or other, when Robert
Courtneidge arrives on the scene to stage-manage the
“Midsummer Night’s Dream” production, which Mus-
grove has so loTVg been talking about Courtneidge, who
represents a solid Manchester syndicate, and is now a
potentate of the first water, will have an important
say in the fixing of any new Australian “firm.” A com-
bine would be based on the scheme of a wide theatrical
circuit, including America, S’Africa, and perhaps India.
“ Haresfoot” : I find a reference to the projected Gee-
long theatre as an entirely new thing, so long has the
recollection of the Past been buried. Ooppin’s Geelong
theatre was turned into a brewery, then into the Salva-
tion Army barracks. Nesbitt M’Cron acted there, and
Brooke followed. M‘Cron lies in the old burial-ground at
Geelong.
“Melb”: The first “Whittington” panto, in Mel-
bourne was in 1857, when Fanny Morgan played the boy.
Tbe Leopold Family made its debfit in the harlequin-
ade. In the next Melb. outbreak of “ Whittington ” two
theatres presented it the same Christmas—the Royal and
the old wooden match-box, Princess’s, where Stirling
White (now of Anderson’s co.) was in the cast. Some 10
years back Billee Barlow was a smart Whittington, for
Coppin at the Royal—a big, successful production. Sub-
sequently, Maggie Moore figured in another version of
the old panto, yarn, and wore an enormous hat with
“Dick” branded on the broad rim to establish her
identity.
Mrs. Maesmore Morris is evidently scoring in England
—her name being second in the list of leading English
actresses which Answers is publishing as an extra num-
ber. Face and style sometimes count for more than
acting.
Pearson’s Weekly tells in graphic style
how it cost Q. Govt. £20,000 to capture the
Kenhiffs ; how Dovle and Dahlke caught Jim
Kentiiff asleep while Patrick Kenniff peppered
them from an ambush, and how the Kenniffs
began their criminal career by murdering a
Chinese teamster and plundering his waggon.
Next number of Pearson’s will probably tell how
the Kenniffs fought in armor, like Ned Kelly, and
were finally apprehended while attempting to
surround George Reid and to drown him along
with his dry dog.
The last of Senator Sargood. A Maori-
land correspondent writing to The Bulletin
before his death
Mr. Sargood, who, I believe, is fairly well-known in
Australia as a successful dealer in softgoods and a
“ toney” member of the Senate, always manages, when
over here, to illuminate the darkness of our understand-
ing through the medium of a press interviewer. He has
just been letting himself go about Commonwealth
politics, and, among other things, he assures us that the
greatest menace to social reform in the Commonwealth
is the Labor party, because (1) it is well-organised and
(2) it is uncompromisingly opposed to militarism !
Carnegie, who, whatever his shortcomings,
at least knows a good deal about accumulating
wealth, says this
The home market of America takes 96 per cent, of all
manufactured articles ; only 4 per cent, goes to foreign
markets. Even Britain’s home market takes four-fifths
of the manufactures; only one-fifth goes abroad.
Politicians give far too much attention to distant
foreign markets, which can never amount to much,
and far too little to measures for improving conditions
at home, which would increase the infinitely more im-
portant home market. If the people of the United
Kingdom could spend even £1 per head more per year,
her home commerce would be increased more than the
total value of her exports to all of Australasia, British
North America, and China combined. Truly foreign
commerce is a braggart always in evidence, home com-
merce the true king.
The Freetrader, whose little pewter joss is “ex-
Eorts and imports,” should ponder. If you make
oots, or steel rails, or silks or calicoes in Sydney
and send them to Bathurst, getting wool in ex-
change, that is just as much commerce as if
Bathurst got these things in England and sent
wool to England in exchange. And our own
people get the wages ; also our own people save
the sea-freight money.
Said that Bent’s scouts on the Vic. rail-
ways have been supplied with kodaks, with
instructions to take snapshots of employees whom
they may find leaning on their shovels yarning,
displaying any lassitude, or blowing their noses
too often.
The casual Australian female might take a
lesson from one reported in recent Warwickshire
papers. She applied in a Birmingham court for a
protection-order under the Married Women’s
Property Act; and on inquiry as to the nature of
her husband’s wrongdoing she explained that she
was not married, but engaged, and wanted a pro-
tection-order “ in case he turns out a bad
husband.” ,
It was obvious from the first that there
was nothing in the drunkard’s yarn from Maori-
land that his mate committed the Gatton (Q.)
murders. The authorities in Queensland are
thoroughly sure that they know the culprits and
the reason for the murders, but are not certain as
to being able to establish a moral certainty as a
legal proof. The theory finally accepted by the
Queensland authorities was first formulated in
The Bulletin office, and grew out of a state-
ment made by one of the persons whom the
police naturally first interrogated concerning the
mysterious deed of blood.
The usual yarn ! Sydney Telegraph de-
voted half-a-column last Tuesday to a screech on
the relative progress in the 10 yeaJte from 1890 to
1900 of Victoria under Protection and N.S. W.
under Freetrade. Think of that ! And N.S. W. had
the considerably Protective tariff of Freetraders
Parkes, M'Millan, Carruthers and the two Smiths
(Bruce and Pumpkin) till the end of 1891; the
still more Protective tariff of G. Dibbs till 1896;
and the partially-Protective tariff of George Reid
after that. These, with 50 per cent. Protection
under the postal laws to Freetrade newspapers,
and £20,000,000 of borrowed money, make up ten
years of Freetrade in N. S.W. Ten years of
Freetrade, be it observed.
The bounding Wragge, who established
his weather station at Mt. Kosciusko as his own
private speculation, though he persuaded the
Reid Govt, to give him sundry grants in aid of it,
states that the present N.S.W. Ministry has “ re-
pudiated all liability” to pay the debts which
have accumulated on the show, and unless it
“recognises its obligations” in the matter he
must appeal to the press for funds. To which
Premier See responds, in effect, that N.S.W.
Govt, has paid any money it agreed to pay,
and that when batches of bills come in to it on
account of anybody’s private weather-prophecy
spec., the matter comes under the head of cheek—
not meteorology. Australia had almost forgotten
the weather establishment at Kosciusko. Nothing
of any interest has come from there, except occa-
sional reports of the struggles of the man in charge
to get up or down. Certainly the Kosciusko show
has cast no light on the drought, whereby it lost a
good chance of being interesting.
Someone whom Sydney Telegraph calls
Krakoff and S.M. Herald Krukoff, and who is a
gentleman from Russia with mediaeval ideas,
has been expressing horror because the Aus-
tralian agriculturist does not work 16 hours a
day as the Russian does, and because the Aus-
tralian women don’t toil more generally in the
fields. On which Granny Herald comments in
her cautious way :—
It is open to doubt whether it would be an advantage
to the race if our Australian women, like their Russian
sisters, were to work in the fields as long and as hard as
their men folk.
If someone proposed to re-establish the Inquisition,
or to boil a few Papists, the Herald would
merely say that “ the advisability of such a step
was open to some doubt ” ! Or else it would say
that the grilling of Dissenters should not be done
without serious consideration, and the matter wa3
not one to be entered upon with undue haste, it
being a somewhat unusual departure, which ad-
mitted of much argument and was liable to mis-
conception,
Stanley James, aged 20 years, had his left
leg snapped off from the middle of the thigli by a
big shark while bathing in Lane Cove River,
Sydney, on Saturday afternoon last. The brute
let go once, but only to make a more effectual
bite, and finally it swam off with the severed
limb. The victim showed great courage, and
when taken out of the water said to his bearers
more than once, “I fought the brute!” A
quickly-improvised tourniquet was at once ap-
plied, but the unfortunate young man soon died
of loss of blood—it being impossible for
any human being to survive a minute or
two’s draining of the femoral artery. The
Parramatta River and its tributary, being shallow
and very warm, in summer afford great attrac-
tions to sharks, numerous, large and singularly
ferocious—they have been known to leap parti-
ally out of the water for the purpose of eating
persons who happened to be dangling their legs
from low stagings. Years ago, present writer
saw a man named Rooney killed by a shark in
2ft. 6in. of water at Albert Park, Melbourne.
The brute made a wound right round and through
its victim’s thigh, actually chipping but not sever-
ing the bone. It was beaten off its prey by a
mounted man, who tackled it with a hammer-
headed whip, but the injured man died at once.
How the shark contrived to make a cut right
through the thigh-flesh as clean as the sweep of
an operating-knife without severing the bone con-
stituted a surgical puzzle.
The Governor having declined to interfere,
Patrick Kenniff was executed (by a hangman in a
false beard and goggles) at Brisbane, on Monday,
for the murder of Constable Doyle. The con-
demned man took the matter quite coolly, and,
on the scaffold, averred his absolute innocence—
he was, he said, as guiltless as the judge who tried
him. The body was lowered into a “beautiful
cedar coffin with silver mountings,” and half-an-
hour after the convict had been protesting his
innocence, his corpse was turned over to his rela-
tives and on its way to the burying-ground, where
several hundreds of people gathered to witness the
interment.
The Bulletin Recitek has been taken by
Bill and Jim straight to their warm hearts, and
already its contents have gladdened thousands of
audiences all over Australia. Most of the best
and most famous Bulletin recitation-pieces are
included in this fine collection—price 5s. post-
free from Bulletin offioe.
“ Wilmot N.” : It is not surprising that
in some countries there is a fal1 '" 8 L. ' e _ e arner
But, considering how little reason tl ? which
has to be satisfied with the condi tions under wht
he lives, it is surprising that, with his i 8
power of thought, he should be willing ti 1Pre i 3
into existence human beings for • for
really no brighter prospect than the v , •
himself. If his class were to refuse to use their
gift of life-giving until conditions were assured
for themselves and their oflfspnng such as would
make life worth living, what would be the result.
Australians should give some attention to
the food-supplv side of the proposed new naval
tribute agreement, part of which is that Australia
shall have “the right” to supply
sailors (no officahs, though !) for the Englis
stationed in these waters. The English mao-of-
war’s-man is, perhaps, the worst-fed white nia
on earth. According to recent exposures:
In spite of recent advances in the art of Pf e f ! . rvl "f
food, pork is still served out on board H.M. s ships in an
uneatable condition, biscuits still crawl, and even tinned
vegetables become full of animal life soon after being
opened. Fresh meat chiefly consists of offal. When tne
food is good it is spoilt in the cooking. _ ,
True, some reform is now suggested ; but it is fair
to conclude that it will be years before such a hog- ,
like system of victualling is brought up to the j
requirements of civilised decency.
Rev. Tremayne Dunstan, who has come
baok to Sydney to explain everything and to
promise to pay everything—some day—announces
that he doesn’t want to run in opposition to the
dear old church in Pitt-st.,” but he will, nathless,
open a show in the near vicinity—at the Pro-
testant Hall. Mr. Dunstan probably seriously
over-estimates his powers when he reckons that
he can, on his own, run an opposition show. It s
a very different thing to being the anti-prelatical
Pope of Pitt-st. with a big tradition, a big build-
ing, a big diaconate and a big newspaper to help.
And, besides, there’s nothing fails like failure.
The N.S.W. Public Service Acts Consoli-
dating Act of 1901, like many of the Consolidating
Acts passed wholesale by a complacent Legisla-
ture, is not the mere matter-of-form it was thought
to be: —
It is now found that clause 62 of the ’95 Act, under
which hundreds of contributors to the Superannuation
Fund were permitted to withdraw, has bodily disappeared
from the Consolidated Act, and the Crown Law people
say that to conserve the rights of these ex-contributors a
new Act will have to be passed next session. It is not to
be supposed that Government will take any advantage of
this accident, but it is feared that any claims arising
before the new Bill is passed will be met with difficulty.
Yet another proof of the over-haste with which
Parliament dealt with the Consolidating business.
How such a vital point, of grave concern to thou
sands of persons, escaped notice, is incompre-
hensible.


HEALTH AND HAPPINPSS
LIVE WELL, LIVE LONG, and LIVE HEALTHILY.
Strength, and unlimited Physical Power & h lf °’ th ° V Sh °“ W aV ° id <lisaster w . hioh mai ' end in Death - Nbw Vigor, new life - "« w
uses of Electricity and Medirina D a ° 8 glven adopting for a short period the Electro-Medical Treatment or the judicious
Electricity and Medicine. People are cured daily by this system who were otherwise classed as “INCURABLE.'-
REMARKS.
the^ h r/:r time t 0 time demonstrated, as leading physiologists and pathologists in the scientific world,
led™ nf tv, 16 P^ rmanent healing of grievous health-destroying diseases lies in the possession of a perfect know-
h - l “f e causation and phenomena concerning them, and the accurate methods of treating them. Any practi-
practitioner cannot heal or cure a disease & com P lai ?t and treat with that professional care embodied in set formula. But every
little benefit. Millions of people suffer from en ea^ oar ’ and unsuccessfully fail. Everywhere men and women try their doctors, receiving
the right sources. What the average medioal erv c a ud vital functional disorders, and never become cured of them, because they do not appeal to
SPECIALIST, with his new L CANNOT CURE WITH HIS SET FORMULAS and obsolete forms of treatment, the
new ideas and modes of treatment, assisted by special knowledge, can. This is proven
BY THOUSANDS OF UNIMPEACHABLE TESTIMONIALS
and WALLACE INSTITUTE, in cases undertaken (and which they guarantee to cure) of nerve
singular success. Patients »TOUFyiNG P fn o£ Electro-Therapeutic agents, is a new system, qualified by
cures. Electricity is Life if iudiciouslv annlipd 1™ t Virnmnin the world of Art and Letters, Sport and Commerce, gladly testify to great
HYSTERIA, INSOMNIA PALPITATION “ INYIGORATOR ” with reconstructive remedies, and such diseases as
lumbago, ABDOMINAL S «T C^TJfi.L^m’u. BEAnr - FAG > exhausted vital functions, rheumatism,
-H ncunanenSveSrS WEAKNESS, PILES, ST. VITUS’ DANCE, or CHRONIC or FUNCTIONAL NERVE DISORDERS, are surely
AH EXQUISITE
EULOGY.
4
MR, CHARLES KENNINGHAM,
the famous lyric composer and
chief operatic tenor of the
Royal English Comic Opera Company,
from the Savoy Theatre, London, who
has starred in every city of Australasia
as the idol of Australian audiences by
reason of his excellent singing, writing to
the Specialists under date November
20th, declares :
“ For years J suffered from
Insomnia. Your F/eetric “lielt y
was recoin mended to me and 1
consistently wore one, with the
result that, I am now sleeping
reasonably and, my general health,
and appetite are much improved.
“ Yours truly.
“ ‘ (lIAIIL US KEN A IN (ill A 31. '>
Such a testimony from such an eminent
source proves the value and efficacy of
the only superior Electric “ Invigorator”
sold in the States, the full particulars of
which are below appended. Be careful
when purchasing an Electric “BELT”
that you secure one certified by local
electricians.
: * /
Mr. CHARLES KENNING HAM, the Famous Composer
A DISTINGUISHED
PATRON.
MR. PHILIP NEWBURY, the
famous English robust tenor, so
intimately known and so popu-
larly appreciated by all Australian lovers
of exquisitely superb vocalisation, was so
benefited by a course of the Electro-
Me lical treatment that in a letter to the
SPECIALISTS he says :
“A few weeks’ course of your
Electro-Medical Treatment, during
which, I wore one of your famous
Nerve - Restoring Electric ‘IN-
VI GO RATO lIS,’ has benefited me
greatly. For years I suffered from
Eric Acid in the Flood, with Rheu-
matic tendencies, but. thanks to
your Electric *IN VIGOR ATORf
I am now completely cured.
Fours faithfully,
Graceful as this eulogy is, it is none
the less sincere, expressed by one whose
attainments are generally beloved
throughout Australasia. It verifies the
fact that in the cure of nerve diseases,
electricity judiciously applied by a skilled
SPECIALIST is unequalled as an im-
mediate remedy.
If you sutler from Insomnia, Functional Heart Trouble, Epilepsy, Hysteria, Weakness, Kidney Dis=
order, Aching Back, Rheumatism, Uric Acid in Blood, Sciatica or Neuralgia, an Electric “ Invigorator,”
with reconstructive remedies, will soon put you right. Electricity goes right to the Spot. Eor many weak-
nesses peculiar to women the “INVIGORATOR” is an infallible cure.
All attestants may be interviewed. The SPECIALISTS’ treatment is sure and effective. Improvement is rapid and certain.
You need not fear but that you WILL RECOVER if you try a course of Electro Medication. It acts at once on the nervous centres, animating the nerves, re-strengthening the muscular
system, equalising the circulation, improving the blood stream. It clears the brain, strengthens and regulates the beating of the heart, and makes a man or woman healthy and strong, AS
NATI7RK INTENDED THEM TO BE. A man is no longer feeble under this treatment; he REGAINS ALL HIS LOST STRENGTH, and finds no PHYSICAL TRIAL that he cannqt
conquer. It is the finest medium in the world to physical peace and domestic harmony.
&
OES.
The Prices of these wonderful curative “INVIGORATORS ” are as follow:
Copper Plate, £1 ; Silver Plate, £1 10s; Solid Silver, £3 ; Solid Cold, £lO (2oz. 18ct. Cold).
The Specialists hold Certificates of Efficacy unpossessed by others, and give private tests to anyone who cares to call. Two leading Sydney electricians
assert they are “ electrically perfect, and their currents are continuous as used for medical purposes.”
These “ INVIGORATORS ” are the only Electric “ Belts ” sold in Australia which possess true non-conducting vulcanite insulation, without which nc
Electric “Belt ” can give a continuous electric current useful for medical purposes. Any electrician will verify this fact.
The Specialists’ Fees : Advice & Medicine, ONE POUND only.
CREDENTIALS.
N- TNE Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration of the Physician-in-
Chief bv the Medical Boards of New South Wales, Victoria Smith Australia,
Eti-'huid and America, open for public inspection at the Institute. Late Homoeopathic
Hospital, Melbourne, and British Imperial Army Medical Staff.
Sir DOMINIC CORRIGAN, Bart., Physician to the late Queen, speaking of the
Physician in Chief, says:—“l entertain a high opinion of Dr. Wallace in regard to his
! >1 ofessionah qualifications. ”
“ CLINICAL EXPERIENCES."
CONTAINING 550 pages of medical literature, 150 full and half-page medical illustra-
tions, fully explains, in the chapter devoted to Electricity, the general laws governing
the application of electricity to the human frame. An exhaustive exposition of the systems
employed in the doctrine of Electro-Medication is given, showing the benefits to be derived
from a judicious use of the Electric Bath, Battery, or Belt. The uses of these are
individually explained. This valuable medical work is posted free'to any address on receipt
of ONE SHILLING IN STAMPS.
T - FREEMAN * WALLACE
fi Fr.Tpn.Mcmr.fli
and SURGICAL INSTITUTE
ELIZABETH and BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
freeman Director. Medicines packed Free from Observation and sent to all parts of Australia.
d°'r!ICHARD WALLACE M D LR.C.P., E., L.F.P.S , E., L.M., Physician-in-Chief. Letters treated with Professional Secrecy and promptly replied to.
.) ...... ..... ..... .... . .


Edith Sellars, in the Nineteenth Cen-
tury :
“ Were I a worn-out worker I would like to change
my nationality and become a Dane, an Austrian or a
Russian ; for of all European nations these three best
understand how to deal with the old and destitute.
Their homes are the brightest and cheeriest of resorts.
In Denmark, by a law of 1891, any old man or women who
can show a decent record is housed, fed and clothed at
the expense of the nation as an honored veteran of
industry. .... The cost per head in Danish homes
averages one shilling a day. In the most comfortless of
London work-houses it is Is. Ud It costa more
in England to make old people miserable than the other
nations spend in making their aged happy.”
France seems to be getting out of her
decrsasing-birth-rate trouble. In 1900 deaths
exceeded births by 5,988; in 1901 there was an
excess of births of 72,398.
Died at Wangaratta hospital recently,
Thomas Plunkett, one of the first twelve pioneers
who arrived at Ballarat after the discovery of
gold there, early in ’5l, and helped to develop the
first local reef—in Magpie Gully. He was known
on every goldfield in the State, where he had
roamed for 64 years, his hobby of late years being
to visit the sites of the old camp fires, and to
prospect for old leads.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s (Ltd.)
CIRCULAR-POINTED PENS J
Seven Prize Medals Awarded.
Neither scratch nor
sport, the points
toeing rounded by >
new process
Attention is also
drawn to their new
“CRADUATED
SERIES OF
PENS.”
OSJT_D
NO
S
P
Circular
pointed
Each pattern being made in jour degree* of OexVnlily
Ask your Storßkeepar for an Assorted Sample Box of either eerl?o.
arul Point*. j 4
Works: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain. _____ .
BEWARE OF COUGHS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION,
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—l am writing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir. —I suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.” —Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cin for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Victoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
"Mr. Hearne. —
Llenwellvn,
“ Katunga, Via
"Dear Sir, —I am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I alwayskeep it in the house now, and. re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to mv mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
" Tours gratefully,
"JOHN S. MORTIMER.”
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR TEARS.
" 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“ Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus —as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“Yours very truly,
"M. MORTIMER.
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERT ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows :—“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Heame’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after tfiat for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happy to sav that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, eta, were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—i remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
'“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Pive Years’ Case.
CURED BT ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Heame.—Dear Sir, —Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be withou
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Years’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Heanie.
“ Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well. —Tours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney."
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS 1 CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes :—“After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bolties of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883 — 15years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.”
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states:—“l
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
eturn of the Asthma.”
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
branch depot Qffl ce . No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562,
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
rp-pqp-pi
SMELTING « REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
Works: DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA (56 Miles from Sydney). 1901, Limited.
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores.
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay. Cyanide, Slags, and Jewellers* Sweep, etc.
Tor all Information regarding Rates, apply to the Manager, Head Office, Dapto;
or, A. E. RUDDER & CO., 40 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents
O *
“ Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical Record.
Food’
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medical Record.
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
Benger’s Food
For Infants, Invalids, and the Aged. Delicious, Nutritive, and Digestible.
Benger’s Food is sold by Chemists, &c., Everywhere-
Extracts front Piivate
Letters.
“ My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult
find. My wife sounds
the praise of ‘ Benger’s
Food’ everywhere.”
“If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.


A
SMOKE
The Unrivalled
World
Renowned
BRIAR
PIPES
LARGEST DEPOT:
231 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY
_ _ _ 2h.p. to lOOh.p.
KING MARINE Q6L ENGINES.
Launches built 20ft. to 80ft. overall.
iM-
Noiseless Uuderwater . . .
Exhaust.
Perfect Gas Generator.
Doable Cylinder.
Automatic Oil Feed.
Simple Electric Ignition
with Dynamo.
J. F.
Telephone 2671.
WITH THE KING ENGINE—ONE LEVEE CONTROLS THE WHOLE.
C 3D E JEFi M O “X" T & O O TVT P» A KT Y,
30 PITT STREET, !=fV'T>ArF; V.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO OEFY COMPETITION.
WINES ' ne *£*«*> °> SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
“On Our Selection,” By “ Steele Rudd
Price, 65., Postage Bd., from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
it
@
©
©
@
@
@
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
General Electric
Incandescent Lamps.
THE EDISON LAMP
Absolutely
THE BEST!
Annual Sales, 18,000,000
After Competitive Tests, 63,750
were purchased by the Melb.
City Council.
LONG LIFE. HIGH EFFICIENCY.
Large Stock always on hand.
AUSTRALIAN
GEDEiMI ELECTRIC CO.
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS,
Melbourne and Sydney.
Motors, Dynamos, Steam Dynamo Sets, etc.,
also in Stock.
@
©
©
©
©
@
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
c
And Other Itching, Burning,
Scaly Eruptions with
Loss of Hair.
Speedy Cure Treatment.
Bathe the affected parts with Hot Water and Cuticura Soap, to
Cleanse the surface of crusts and scales, and soften the thickened
cuticle. Dry, without hard rubbing, and apply Cuticura Ointment
freely, to allay itching, irritation, and inflammation, and soothe and
heal, and lastly take Cuticura Resolvent Pills, to cool and cleanse the
blood. A single set is often sufficient to cure the most torturing, dls-
figuring, itching, burning, scaly, pimply humours, eczemas, rashest
irritations, and chafings, with loss of hair, when all else fails.
The agonizing itching and burning of the skin, as in eczema; the fright-
ful scaling, as in psoriasis; the loss of hair and crusting of the-scalp, as in
scalledhead; the facial disfigurement, as in pimples and ringworm; the
awful suffering of infants and the anxiety of worn-out parents, as in milk
crust, tetter, and salt rheum, all demand a remedy of almost superhuman
virtues to successfully cope with them. Such are the Cuticura remedies,
the purest, sweetest, most speedy and economical curatives for the skin,'
scalp, and blood ever compounded. Mothers are their warmest friends.
Millions of Women UseCuticura Soap
Assisted by Cuticura Ointment for preserving, purifying, and beautify-
ing the skin, for cleansiug the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff; and the
stopping of falling hair, for softening, whitening, and soothing red, rough,
and sore hands, for baby rashes and chafings, in the form of baths for
annoying irritations and inflammations of women, or too free or offensive
perspiration, in the form of washes for ulcerative weaknesses, and many
sanative, antiseptic purposes which readily suggest themselves, as well as 1
for all the purposes of the toilet, bath, and nursery.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT PILLS
(Chocolate Coated) are . new, tasteless,
odourless, economical substitute for the cele-
brated liquid Cuticura Resolvent, as well as for all other blood purifiers and humour
cures. Put up in screw-cap pocket vials, containing 60 doses.
CtJTicußi. Rxuedixs are told throughout the world. Australian Depot: R. Towns t Co., Sydney. Britiih
Depot: Charterhouse Sq., London, french Depot: 5 Rue do la falx, Paris. Powii Dau» ajcd Chiu.
Coir., Sole Prope., Poston, U. S. A.
CLOTHED WITH AIR
AERTEX CELLULAR FABRIC
is the ideal form of body covering’, possessing all the neces-
sary hygienic qualities, and being also most comfortable and
of attractive appearance, and for those reasons is recoin-
mended by the Medical Faculty wherever introduced.
Aertex Cellular Underwear is a Sure Preventative against Chills
r-
rail
rfeafcalßp
Cellular Day Shirts.
Silk neckbands and soft wrists.
White and Self Colors, 4s to 7s 6d
Fancy Designs, 7s 6d to 9s 6d.
Cellular Neglige Shirts.
Soft fronts of plain or pleated
Cellular Cloth; wrists, French
Print, Linen, or Cellular. Recom-
mended for Golf, Cycling, &c.
White body, 7s 6d ; colored, 8s 9d
Cellular Dress Shirt.
Fitted best Belfast Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 0.8. or 0.F., one stud.
Cellular Cotton Body—
-6s 6d to 8s 6d
Cellular Lisle Body—
-9s 6d and 10s 6d
Cellular Short-Front Shirt
for every-day wear.
Open behind, 2in. linen wrists—
-5s 6d, 6s 6d.
Open front or behind, square
cuffs— 6s 6d, 7s 6d
-
AERTEX
Cellular Combinations.
High or Low Necks.
s. d.
White Cotton, trimmed
Lace .. .. ..56
|White Cotton, trimmed
Embroidery .. .. 7 6
White Cotton, trimmed
Lace 9 6
White Lisle, trimmed Em-
broidery 10 6
AERTEX
Cellular Nightdresses.
White Cotton, trimmed
Embroidery .. ..90
White Lisle, trimmed Em-
broidery 20 0
White Lisle, prettily
trimmed, fine Torchon .; 19 6
i.
Aort<>Y CAhlhr ffirnikfx? White Cotton > trimmed Embroidery,
Acriex LCllUldr Bs . White Lisle, heavily trimmed
Real Torchon, 14s 6d and 16s 6d.
Aertex Cellular Slip-Bodices, “g,” fe” *“
White Lisle, trimmed Torchon, 6s 6d and 8s 6d.
Send for Illustrated Price List—Post Free.
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.,
sole Agents. 73 & 75 King-St., Sydney.
Cellular Tennis Shirt.
With Collar and Pocket. The most
comfortable for all out-door sports
of all kinds. A great variety of
patterns stocked.
Plain Colors, 4s. 6d. to 7s. 6d.
Fancy Designs, 7s. 6d. to XIST 6d.
Aertex Cellular Corsets.
Fitted real Greenland Whalebone,
8. d.
Cl Ecru 13:n. deep .. ..15 6
C 2 „ long waist, 14£in deep 16 6
H White Cotton, 14in., nar-
row spoon busk .. .. 21 0
G White Cotton, 14Jin., with
Elastic Supporter .. 24 6
F Ecru, Riding or Cycling.. 12 6
V Cycling, Boned ' French
Horn, Elastic Hips ..15 0
D 1 same shape as Cl, Watch-
spring Steels .. .. 86
M ELLIN’S
FOR INFANTS FOOD AND INVALIDS
Is adapted for use from birth.
S«nd for Pamphlet and Samples to GOLLIN & 00., Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide and Wellington.


4)2 GEORGE
Sr Sydney.
UR big Jewellery Store was never so superior, never so splendid.
Every beautiful thing from England, America and the Continent is
here, and favourably priced for you. So quickly come and go the new
things that we could not enumerate them, but come in and see for
yourself what we have. We never press anyone to buy. We will gladly
show you the latest even if you come only out of curiosity. Our New
Catalogue is free to all.
No. E44s9—The “ Cnpid ” Card Case
Solid Silver, Lady’s Size, £2 10s.
Silver-Plated on Nickel Silver
Base, Tankard. 12s; 1 pt.,
159.
No. F6127—A1 Quality Silver-Plated
Toast Rack, £1 153.
No. F&ssl—Heavy 9ct Gold Twist Bracelet, £2 10s.
No. E3oB2— 9ct Gold Bracelet, set Pearls and Sapphire
Doublets, £2 2s.
No. F9557—9ct Gold and Real Pearl
Bracelet, £2.
No. F 9569 —9ct Gold and Real Pearl
Bracelet, £1 7s. 6d.
9ct Gold & Tortoiseshell
Hairpin or Ornament,
£1 7s 6d.
No. F2lsB—Solid Silver Prize Bowl,
£8 10s.—8£in. x s|in.
No. F9s72—Strong 9ct Gold Twist Tube
Brooch, £llos.
. -» _
No. F247B—Silver Plated Butter Knife and Jam
Spoon, in a Case, 14s. 6d.
No. F999l—Silver Plated Satin Lined
Jewel Case, £1 ss.
No. F55B—Al Quality
Silver Plated Butter Dish,
£1 12s. 6d.
ro. F64f3—Solid Silver
Pepper Pot, 18s. 6d.
till;
No. E7B49—Silver-Plated
Egg Boiler, £1 7s. 6d.
No. Fl342—Cut Glass and
Silver Plated Claret Juir
£1 Is.
No 163—18 ct Gold
Diamond and Ruby Ring,
£3 10s.
No. F47lo—Silver Plated Knife, Fork and Spoon,
in a Case, 14s. 6d.
o^teuWtl^Dawson
KUTNOW’S i
IMFKDVCO EFFERVESCENT CARLS SLAB
POWDER.
or Deer Leap
f t *egister&> trade NARK
(ENTERED AT 3TMIONtB’S MALL*
♦SaSrir-iftfnK*
KUTNOW’S
1 •'
Improved effervescent carlsiad
POWDER.
F»«Mcm itSole. ■
(iHTERrD * y S?TWOf»«R<S HAUt\
KUTNOW’S i
JMPMVED EFF ER'JESCENT CARLSBAD
POWPER.
(INTERED AT STATIOKU’S M
KUTNOW'S
Kutnow’s Powder assures a
perfect Digestion, and speedily
dispels Headache, Neuralgia,
Anaemia, Sleeplessness, Loss of
Appetite and Energy caused
by Imperfect Digestion and
Mal-Assimilation.
The work of removing the waste matters that result from
the digestive processes falls chiefly on the bowels, iiver, and
kidneys. If these organs become disordered and inactive,
Constipation and Dyspepsia occur, and should they stop
working altogether for a few hours, death would result from
the accumulated poisons in the body. While these poisons
are not harmful when present in a normal quantity, they
propagate disease if allowed to accumulate in the system.
Perfect action of all these eliminative organs is therefore
necessary to keep the body in sound health. The gateways
of excretion must be kept free, and the filters must be clean.
This is now readily accomplished by using KUTNOW’S
POWDER, which cleanses and stimulates the Bowels, Liver
and Kidneys, and when deranged and sluggish restores them
to a strong, healthy, active condition. As the organs regain
their ability to perform their several functions, the blood
will become purer, the nerves stronger, the appetite keener,
sleep sounder, and the skin healthier. Headache, bilious-
ness, and drowsiness will vanish, and the entire body be
rendered stronger and more vigorous.
The use of “ liver pills ” in the treatment of liver dis-
orders may in most instances be compared to the whipping
of an exhausted horse when each application of the scourge
only tends to hasten entire collapse.
KUTNOW’S POWDER is an aperient in which the
drastic, .lowering, and nauseous features of the ordinary
aperient medicine are entirely absent. It is composed of
the most curative, healing, and purifying constituents of the
European mineral-spring waters, scientifically blended with
other health-giving ingredients.
KtJTNOW S POWDER does for the Stomach, Liver,
and Kidneys what a course of physical exercise does for the
body ; that is to say, it puts it in the finest possible condi-
tion, and creates within the system a power of resistance
which practically renders the body proof against disease in
general and any epidemic in particular.
WASHES and STRENGTHENS
“The Infirmary, Ely, Cambs.
“ Gentlemen, —Please be good enough to for-
ward me a large bottle of Kutnow’s Powder to
the. above address, for which you will find Postal
Order.
“ Allow me to say that I think very highly of
the Powder ; it must contain excellent properties.
“ I shall be most pleased for you to make any
use of my letter.
“(Nurse) CHARLOTTE SIMPSON.”
“5, Hesketh Crescent, Torquay.
“I enclose a P.O, for a bottle of your Kut-
now’s Powder. This is the third I have had, and
hope to have many more, as it has entirely cured
my indigestion, which caused palpitation of the
heart. “BERKELEY LUCY.”
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
See that the name KUTNOW is printed
on each Carton in which the bottle
is packed.
THERE ARE FRAUDULENT IMITATIONS.
BEWARE OF THEM !
KUTNOW’S POWDER can be obtain-
ed in capsuled bottles from all
Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Tee
that the Registered Trade Mark,
“ Hirchensprung ” (or Deer Leap),
and the autograph facsimile signa-
ture, “ S. KUTNOW & CO. (Ld.).” are
on the label and carton. ONLY
THESE ENSURE GENUINENESS. IN-
SIST ON “KUTNOW’S,” AND FIRMLY
REFUSE ANY SUBSTITUTES; THEY
ARE WORTHLESS AND OFTEN IN-
JURIOUS.
“ 6, The Parade, Bounces Road,
“Bower Edmonton.
1 am pleased to be able to tell you that I have
derived great benefit from the use of Kutnow’s
Powder, both for indigestion, biliousness, and
rheumatism, and am delighted to have found so
agreeable and efficacious a medicine, and shall
not fad to recommend it to patients and friends.
•• ‘ ,¥?P e oth ers will derive as much benefit as
myself from its use.
“ (Nurse) F. ROBERTSON, L. 0.5.”
«, mi • George’s Road, Aldershot.
I his medicine (Kutnow’s Powder) was pre-
scribed for me last winter during an attack of
nervous debility and acute indigestion . with
good results. “E. MEDHURST.”
THE STOMACH, LIVER*KIDNEYS
Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & CO., LTD., 41 FARRINCDON RD., LONDON, E.C.
Proprietors in U.S.A.: Bros., Ltd., 853 Broadway, New York.
4—lo
KUTNOW’S
Improved effervescent carls»ao
POWDER.
Hiisehensprunj or Deer Leap
IP
41 FMRIHCOCN ROAD. LC..
REGISTERED TRADE MARK
1
(FNTCBEO AT STA7IOHUTS HALL.|
ESS
KUTNOW’S
Improved effervescent carlsi
POWDER.
fUiscKantptuna or Deer Leap
I
—LOW*.
4L FARRIMCDOM ROAD. LL.
—t REGISTERED trade mark
(pJTIREDAT STATIONEB'9’ MAUuI
KUTNOW’S
Improved effervescent carlsbad
POWDER.
m
or Deer Leap
iff
4i, rwßmmm mnl 'it,


W\
s&h.
s^U
cos
PD
CORSETS
>♦♦♦♦♦♦♦«!
The Recognised Standard
High-Class Corsets
LATEST SPECIALTY
STRAIGHT FRONT
NOUVELLE FORM
Hi irillHT * 'W 'TBCTMaBgaaOBTOTimA.';
Obtainable from Leading
Drapers Everywhere.
Avoid Inferior Imitations, and see that
each pair bears the Manufacturer’s “Trade
Mark ” on band inside, as above.
The NEW SHORTHAND (Rgd).
—An Extraordinary Offer. »
The “NEW SHORTHAND” has broken the record in London and it shall do the same in Australia.
SPEED RECORD PRIZES
WILL BE GIVEN AS UNDER :
For 225 words per minute—One Year’s Engagement at
any one of the Studios.
Salary, 2,0 guineas.
For 210 words per minute—Cash prize, 10 guineas.
For 190 words per minute—Cash prize, 5 guineas.
For 180 words per minute —Cash prize, 2 guineas.
For 160 words per minute—Cash prize, 1 guiiu a.
For 150 words per minute—Cash prize, i guinea.
Those over 220 words per minute shall have another
Contest during the month of May, and the Quickest
Writer shall have an additional £5O in cash, in addi-
tion to the year’s engagement, and such person shall
be called the “Champion of Australia for the NEW
SHORTHAND.”
CONDITIONS OF ENTRY.
Entrance fee for this shall be the fc'2 2«. charged for
our full course of 21 lessons and may be paid 2s. 6d.
first lesson, 2s. (id. for each lesson follow itier up to the
16th, the next 2s. and the laso 4 lessons up to reporting
speed Free.
ALL OLD PUPILS may qualify by increasing the
amount already paid up to the £2 2s. standard prior to
May Ist, 1903.
MEN, WOMEN, BOYS, GIRLS, are eligible.
Examination Tests will be held in private.
No confusion or excitement No public gaze or
overstrung nerves. Each chief examiner in Adelaide,
Melbourne, Sydney, Perth, Brisbane and Hobart will
be the Judge, and a very fa r judge he will be.
The CONTEST will take place at each of our
BRANCHES, and will be a Ten Minutes’ speech or
reading of unfamiliar matter.
Bankers—Adelaida : The Union.
Melbourne Studio: 406 Collins Street.
tranches: The Commercial.
Sydney Studio: 7 Moore Street.
chief Examiner for N.S.W.
Branches at Hobart, Launceston, Brisbane, Perth, Adelaide.
THE PIANOLA
D
eK
*NHm
r>*
€
*SS^
'' / ? *
Wliat
It
Means
To
You
It will make a player and a cultivated
musician of every member of your family.
It will enable you to play your piano,
although you may never have played one
note in your life.
If you will write us we will mail you
free a catalogue explaining how.
Ask fur Catalogue “ B.”
Sold on Moderate Monthly Payments for
£O3, or £OO for Prompt Cash.
Henry M. Birge & Co.
323 George Street, Sydney ;
185-187 Collins St., Melbourne.
A Social Stereo.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Since the death of her husband, Fortune had not
once smiled on Mrs. Lister, who, from being
mistress of a modest villa and two servants, had
become the keeper of a second-rate boarding-
house, all the work of which she did unaided.
A bill-of-sale on all her household belongings
hung menacingly over Mrs. Lister’s head. She
had been forced into a money-lender’s hands, and
those hands squeezed till she would have thought
death welcome, did not three dirty, chubby faces
as insistently say “No.” She struggled on with
magnificent hopelessness, despairing, yet heroic—
a mother for her children.
Seekers after lodgings seemed to pass her by as
if they were in league with the Fates. Across the
street, Mrs. Johns, with attractions for boarders
neither better nor worse, had not to tear her
heart with struggling as she had. Two rooms, a
double and a single, were empty, and had re-
mained empty for three weeks. It was an effort
to pay rent and interest; the tradesmen’s bills
began to appear as tigers ready to spring. How
could she ever hope to appease them ?
She was mechanically dusting a chest-of-
drawers, and was full of bitter, blasphemous
thoughts, that were victoriously driving before
them the last ragged legions of hope, when she
came across a letter, a love-letter received during
the months when the world was a paradise and
the postman who brought Harry’s letter each day
.tn angel. She read it, and felt herself floating back
through the years of married life until she was
once more a fluttering sweetheart. She did not
■ear the approaching footsteps of seven-year-old
Fanny.
“ Mutnma, there’s a lady and a gentleman
wants to see you at the door.”
fhe 12 years passed in a flash. She was once
core a struggling widow with three children,
valiantly facing starvation.
“ Yes, my dear, I’m coming.”
She kissed the golden-haired mite, as once more
hope began to throb within her. At the door a
,oung man and a girl stood, embarrassed, unable,
uther of them, to express themselves. Mrs.
bister summed up the situation at a glance, and
at once sympathy, born of sweet remembrance,
sprang to life for this forlorn-looking couple.
“ I have a double room to let, ” she said.
require board as well,” the young man
After a few more words and an inspection of
the room, he paid the thirty-seven and sixpence
for the week, and then departed with his wife for
their belongings.
* • * »
“Seven pounds five and fourpence, and not a
penny for three weeks,” a surly looking man
growled.
“I know, Mr. Ganfin,” Mrs. Lister replied
but what am I to do?”
Mr. Ganfin growled back that that was her
business. If she wanted him to serve her with
meat, he must have his money. She would have
liked to reply that she di 1 not want him to serve
her. He was an unsatisfactory tradesman, and
she would have dealt with him no longer than she
could help. But she was heavily in debt to him.
“ Well, can’t you pay it in instalments—say,
two ten now, and another two-ten on Friday ? ”
Mrs. Lister said she did not at that moment
possess fifty shillings. Would thirty shillings be
enough ?
“Let us have it then.”
The payment was made. When Ganfin had
gone, she knew she had made a mistake in parting
with the money. She should have delayed him a
little longer, for, although the butcher’s impor-
tunities were hard to bear, she was not at his
instant mercy, as was the case with the money-
lender with his bill-of-sale. To excuse herself,
she reflected that she was fortunate in having any
money at all that day.
The widow and the wife had been exchanging
the usual feminine confidences. The wife had
said: “Of course, no one is supposed to know
that we are married. If it were known, he would
lose his billet. It is the rule of the bank.”
Mrs. Lister paid hardly any attention to this.
The dreadful cloud of the bill-of-sale had come
over her mind. She had expected the money-
lender’s collector that day, but he had so far not
put in an appearance. Perhaps, she tried to hope,
she might the following day be better prepared
for his coming. But he might still come to-day.
A knock at the door turned her heart to ice, and,
whei} she foupd it was not the collector, she nearly
fainted from the spasm of relief.'
“Why, it’s Dick,” cried Mrs. Fanning, with
the joyful trill of the young wife in her voice,
Fanning entered the room, pale and worn, look-
ing 10 years older than when he had gone away in
the morning.
“They have found out,” he said. “ They dis-
missed me at once. I have been looking all day
for a billet. I thought I might come home with
good news after all. But I ”
A look of consternation spread over the wife’s
face. She felt miserable because her Dick was
miserable rather than at the prospect of a bitter
struggle with poverty. She fell to re-assuring
him, and decided that he would surely be success-
ful to-morrow.
The prevailing feeling of Hopefulness infected
Mrs. Lister, who a few minutes later was called
away by another knock at the door. Her dread
was gone, for it was too late now for the collector.
A middle-aged man of respectable appearance
wanted a room. He inspected the single room,
but it was too small and cramped. He would
have preferred the double room. Unable to suit
himself, he went away. If the Fannings, she
thought . . .
Next day Dick Fanning returned home with
good news. He had obtained a positiqn at fifty
shillings a week, five shillings in advance of what
he had received at the bank. Elsie was like a
bird iq spring, and joyful that, since it was
Tuesday, she would have Dick all to herself until
Monday, when he was to re-coinmence work. He
felt relieved now that there would be no need to
leave Mrs. Lister until he and Elsie could set up
house for themselves.
* • « *
The money-lender’s collector was a far more
truculent and disagreeable brute than the butcher.
“I should have called yesterday, and as I
didn’t, you ought to part-up better for it.”
Mrs. Lister asked for an extension of time.
“ I can’t let you off any longer. To-morrow I
must put the bill-of-sale into execution. I must
have my money.”
Mrs. Lister pleaded as she had never before
pleaded to anyone on this earth. The voices of
the children playing upstairs were heard all the
while. Their prattle seemed mightier than the
voice of God ; and, thus inspired, her appeal was
successful. The collector relented.
“Till Monday. Then the execution,” were bis
last words.
* * * ♦
Monday morning. The last pennies had gore
to buy bread. But there was the Fannings’
money to come. That would suffice to secuie
another postponement from the money-lender,
who would take the money, and, without deduct-
ing either from principal or interest, call it a
“tine.”
Dick Fanning entered the kitchen, where Mrs.
Lister sat drying cups and saucers.
“Through changing billets,” he said, “I have
lost a week’s work and a week’s pay, and cannot,
therefore, pay you until next Monday.”
Mrs. Lister managed to reply :
“Yes, Mr. Fanning, I suppose I can wait.”
The bill-of-sale glared before her eyes like a
flaming sword. She could feel it already severing
her heart-strings. She could not weep, for the
flaming sword had seared the fountains of her
eyes at their source. A palsy began to creep over
her. She felt it stealing upwards from her feet
to her knees, and she had to resume her seat.
Then it stole upwards to her heart; and once
more upwards the terrible, consuming weakness
went, upwards, upwards
• * * *
The evening papers had a better sale than usual
that night. There had been an “appalling tragedy
in a boarding-house.” A woman had killed her
three children and then herself.
LEON BRODZKY.
A Wrinkle in Crime.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Yes,” said my acquaintance, the confirmed
criminal, reflectively, “ modern fiction in its
dealings with crime and criminals is lamentably
crude and misinformed. I read all that kind of
stuff, and I find it most amusing in its inaccurate
simplicity. Now I could put pounds in the way
of a writer who wanted new ideas, new situations,
and the proper criminal atmosphere. Here is one
idea —you are welcome to it.
“Suppose you and your friend have a big
scheme in hand—we will say a wholesale swindle
on one cf the banks. We will suppose that the
only weak spot in the arrangements is the danger
of one of you getting collared on his presenting a
certain document at the bank ; you are both fully
alive to the risk, but resolved to take it. It fall’s
to your partner’s lot to present the document, the
worst happens, and he is arrested. Remember,
the scheme is a big one, and large interests are
involved.
“Well, you have arranged with your partner
beforehand what is to be done in case of accident,
and you are both prepared. Your partner is, say,
Beresford. He is arrested at 3 p.m. on Tuesday.
What follows ? He is taken to the Central Police
Station, charged, searched and locked up in a cell
to await the opening of the court at 10 a.m. on
Wednesday. Meanwhile you are aware of your
partner’s misfortune—you watched him being
arrested. So you at once set about your arrange-
ments which will only cost a fiver, all told. About
8 p.m. a third man—call him Nokes—is arrested
in Pitt-street for ‘ insulting behaviour ’ and duly
locked up at the Central, possibly in Beresford’s
cell, but that is immaterial.
“In the morning, at 10, Nokes is fined 405., in
default 7 days; and Beresford, the sensational
forger, is remanded for a week, bail being
refused. Both prisoners are removed from the
dock to their cells, to await the arrival of the
prison-van at 2.30 p.m. At that hour a policeman
calls the names of his passengers from his 50m-
mittal warrants. As the names are called, their
owners step into the van, and are driven off up
Oxford-street to Darlinghurst Gaol. There the
door is opened, and the prisoners, male and
female, form up in line as the chief warder takes
over the warrants from the policeman in charge.
The chief tallies the number of warrants with the
number of prisoners. ‘ All correct.’ For the
present the police are done with Nokes, Beresford
and the others.
“The line of new arrivals is now marched to a
certain subterranean passage, and again ‘ ranked
up.’ The warder in charge calls the name on
warrant No. I—a1 —a woman ! Ladies first, even
there ! She steps forward, and has her ‘descrip-
tion ’ taken ; color of hair, eyes, &c-., duly recorded
in the gaol register, her weight and height ascer-
tained, and she is marched off to the particular
‘ wing ’ that is to shelter her. Presently the name
‘ Beresford ’is called. The real Beresford never
moves a muscle, but Nokes quietly and promptly
steps forward. He is duly measured, weighed,
and ‘described,’ and marched off to the remand
yard. Then comes the call ‘ Nokes,’ and Beres-
ford blandly steps forward and answers for him.
The substitution is unsuspected, and Beresford,
in his role of street brawler, is led off to the fines
and short-sentence department to work out his
7 days. That evening at 5, however, the £2 fine
is paid at the gaol gate, and Beresford is unques-
tioningly set at liberty. Meanwhile the fictitious
Beresford is calmly awaiting events in the remand
wing. Perhaps he makes a fuss next morning,
and demands to know whether or not his £2 fine
has been paid. Or, possibly, if his fee has been
big enough, he waits till the week’s remand is up
and then demands to be set at liberty, and the
substitution is then detected.”
“Yes,” murmured my friend, “ much more can
be done by brains than brute force.”
W.A.
B.L.
New Admiral Fanshawe, who comes to
boss the Australian squadron, divulged before he
left England that he was in the general con-
spiracy to saddle these parts with a big share of
the dear old Motherland’s naval burden. He told
a London banquet that he would “ do everything
possible to encourage the natural development of
the naval spirit in Australia.” But what is the
naval spirit of Australia, and \yhen was it dis-
covered ? It is notorious that Australians are
not given to seamanship. Their ships are
manned mostly by “Dutchmen ” and “ Dagqes ”
and a few incidental Britishers aqd Yanks.
It is tolerably safe ‘tq say that half the little
cqasting vessels that heat about our rivers
and harbqrs dq nqt carry an Australian aboard,
and the larger passenger-oum-cargo boats are
manned either by Maorilanders, or the Dutchmen,
Britishers and Yanks aforementioned. As for the
interest of our population in its alleged squadron,
it would be safe to bet on getting a blankly
ignorant response from 29 out of every 30 Aus-
tralians who might be casually asked how that
make-believe flotilla is made up, where it is
mostly stationed at any time other than the Melb.
Cup carnival, how it is maintained, what the name
of its admiral is, or what the concern does to
justify its existence, or could do if called upon at
any juncture. British admirals seem to found
their notion of our “naval spirit” upon the fact
that a large percentage of the Sydney population
goes out yachting or dingy-sailing or fishing on
Sundays.


Piles
PERMANENTLY
CURED
a g an illustration of the wonderful efficacy of Bile Beans in curing the worst
A cases of Piles after many other treatments have failed, we quote the
XJL following case of Mr. George Gurney, of Meek’s Road, Marnckville,
Svdnev This gentleman says:—“About four years ago I suffered
considerably from Piles brought on by constipation. The misery I experienced
was awful. I could not sleep, lost all my appetite, and became entirely unfitted
for work The pain I experienced was terrible and kept me up half the night,
trying different expedients to gain temporary relief. To sit down was out of the
question, and moving about was almost as bad. I consulted a doctor, who
prescribed medicine which relieved me while taking it, _ but the Piles again
returned after leaving it off. It was then I decided to give Bile Beans a trial,
and I have great pleasure in informing you that the first few doses afforded me
great relief, and I had not finished the contents of one box when the Piles dis-
appeared and have not since returned. Prom my experience, I can confidently
assert Bile Beans are an undoubted cure for Piles and their attendant evils and
in the interests of humanity you have my willing permission to publish my
experience.”
•rTLE BEANS have been proved to be an undoubted specific for BILIOUSNESS,
INDIGESTION DYSPEPSIA, HEADACHE, BLOOD IMPURITIES,
CONSTIPATION, PILES, PIMPLES, AND ALL SKIN ERUPTIONS,
MD BREATH, FEMALE WEAKNESSES, FULNESS AFTER EATING,
NERVOUSNESS, INSOMNIA, ANAEMIA, SUMMER FAG, and a host of
other ailments that owe their origin to defective bile flow, assimilation and
digestion. BILE BEANS are obtainable from all Chemists. Price Is. l£d.
or 2s. 9d. LARGE BOX (containing three times Is. ljd. size).
He
eans
~.. FOR
uiousness
am-Gu/c
i-jyjiyjyjfla
A soothing Balm and Embrocation, will b«
found a certain cure for Cuts, Burns, Boils,
Barcoo, Eczema, Sprains, Ring-worm, Sore
Feet, all forms of Skin Disease or Muscular
Affections, &c. From all Chemists, 1/6
per tin. A free sample will be sent you.
Address the Zam-Buk Co., 39 Pitt-street,
Sydney, enclose a penny stamp for postage
and mention this paper.
NOW READY.
PEARS’ AIWUAL
Christmas, 1902
Published by the Proprietors :
A. & F. PEARS, Ltd., 71-75 New Oxford-st., London, W.C.
Containing an Old-Fashioned Romance, entitled—
MERRICHILD’S MILLION
By R. E. FRANCILLON
With 22 Illustrations in Black and White by FRANK DADD, R. 1., in Handsome
Colored Cover.
With the above are—
PRESENTATION PLATES
Printed in Colors in the Best and Most Artistic Style
of the Chromo-Lithographic Art. . . . .
1. A Breezy Day.
From the Original Painting by BIRKET FOSTER, R.W.S.
Size 28 by Printed in 13 Colors.
2. Impudent Hussies !
From the Original Painting by Miss M. GROVES.
Size by 18. Printed in 13 Colors.
3. Spring Blossoms.
AND
4. The Ferry.
From the Original Painting by W. S. COLEMAN,
bize Ibj by Printed in 13 .
THE WHOLE ENTIRELY I~I E‘ Gl A ID.
Ol J Uy Booicse. and News v»ents all over the World.
Box On!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Life is a ring that’s a heap too small,
With the World for a referee;
And there’s never a man can dodge his call.
Or can hope for a fair decree.
For every kid, when he sees the light,
No matter his class or weight,
Must don the mitts, for a finish-fight
With a cove that’s known as Fate.
You’ve never a chance to fight it through.
You’re done from the starting-gong;
He’s a heavier, cleverer lad than you,
And he’s always young and strong.
And it’s tough to fight at a lightning rate^
When your nerves are badly shook,
With a hostile hall and a paltry gate
And a referee that’s crook.
Your gloves he’ll fake and your seconds square,
And he’ll rough you anyhow;
You’ve no more chance of a fight that’s fair
Than you have in a push’s row.
He’ll land you down and he’ll lift his knee,
He’ll sling and clinch and clout;
And there’s never a scrap where the referee
Is game to foul him out.
Some drop their bag when they spot him scowl,
Some start with a heap of pluck,
Some cock their tails and they toss the tow*!
Ere ever a blow is struck.
Some strike him times when his temper’s strong,
And, as soon as they start the bout,
A merciful boshter comes along
And woodens them fairly out.
But most of us have the luck to hit
On a score of rounds or more,
With our eyes bunged up and our noses split,
And our hands cut up and sore.
With the pain and the blood and the shaking knee,
And the thought that your chance is gone,
You clinch for time, when the referee
Gives the terrible word “ Box on ! ”
There are times when you think you’ve got him
done;
He’ll stagger and kid and paw,
But when you reach for a mighty one,
He’ll counter across your jaw.
You’re dead to the world ; and the gamest funk,
When they fail in every joint;
And you might as well punch at an ironbark trunk
As land on his ugly point.
“Box on ! Box on ! Box on ! Box on ! ”
The words fall stern and quick.
Your pluck is fled; your strength is gone ;
Your breathing’s hard and thick ;
Your head is banged from side to side;
The lights grow dim that shone ;
The while the words ring loud and wide,
“ Box on ! Box on ! Box on 1 ”
“ Box on ! ” —and, helpless on the ropes,
You take his fiendish blows.
“ Box on ! ” —buoyed up by foolish hopes,
You weakly clinch and close.
At last, half dazed, with failing breath,
You swing; he counters —then
You fall, and grim timekeeper Death
Ticks off the seconds ten.
CIRO.
Piety’s Monument.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The old man gathered in his contemplation from
elsewhere, and fixed his pink-edged eyes on mine.
I coughed, and then began: “Didn’t old Piety
work the kilns above here ? What sort of lime did
he burn?” And I offered the old fellow my
flask.
He picked up a battered jam-tin and gazed
thoughtfully into it. Then he poked his finger
in. Lastly, he emptied all my whisky into it,
and drank it swiftly and suspiciously. “Eh?”
he said. Then something began to work in the
old man; his reserve seemed to crack and come
to pieces; he burst-up slowly, as it were, and
crumbled into speech. “What should you know
about old Piety ? ” he asked, uneasily, in a sorrow-
ful, whining tone “ Oh, he could burn lime,” he
went on, “leastways, he thought he could. But
there was as much difference between his kilns and
mine as between oysters an’ cheese. Well! well!
You knowed him?” he whispered, stroking the
bricks in the chimney beside him, thoughtfully.
“No,” I replied, “only heard of him.”
“ And heard wrong,” said the old man, simply.
“ Now I’ll tell you the faeks.” Then he went off
in a low, quavering whine : “ Piety owned these
here kilns, an’ Piety burnt lime. Leastways, he
said he did, but it was me as done it. But when
Piety put his finger in, the kiln was all stone. He
worrited here, he worrited there, muddling and
mulling every blessed kil’ till he had me nigh
crazed, and my fingers raw picking out stone.
‘Jus’ give me the contrack,’ I’d say—‘the con-
track to burn lime at so much a bushel.’ ‘ No, you
don’t,’ says he. An’ that’s all I ever got out of
him ; ‘No you don’t! not in my day,’ and then he
went and killed the kangaroo,”
“The kangaroo?” I asked. “What kangaroo?”
“Bill’s kangaroo* he replied, querulously.
“Bill had a pet kangaroo—Bill, the old man’s
grandson, as owns these here kilns now. They
didn’t get on, the old man and Bill, and lived in
different huts. Bill was an orphan. Well, the
kiln was about half full and burning—old Piety,
he was great at half-kilns—when the kangaroo
hopped onto the kiln bank and ate old Piety’s
dinner, bread and butter and what not. Oho ! he
was wild when he found it out. Then the beast
came and rooted at him with its fore-paws, playing
like. With that, he kicks it; but, lor’, the beast
thought he was playing with it, so it just turns
back upon him, a-twiddling its paws. Then he
goes for it real spiteful, and gives it a tremenjous
kick that sends it flying, right into the burning
kiln.”
The old man/paused bere and stared into space,
mumbling. Then he went on, monotonously:
“Lari ! You would have larfed to see that kan-
garoo jump. But, lor’! there’s no jumping out of
a kiln.' D’ye see the pint? But Bill, he didn’t
larf when he finds it all out. There was the last
of the kangaroo smoking in the blue flame a-fcop
o’ the kiln. ‘Oh, you old devil!’ he says to
Piety; ‘it would serve you right to go through
the kiln yourself ! ’ Then he cleared right away,
and wouldn’t speak to nobody. But it was the
ehilder as did it.”
“ Did what ? ” I asked.
“Well, it was like this,” he explained. “My
fingers was red-raw with the half-burnt stone, and
I was a-tying them up in rags, and abusing of old
Piety. ‘ Couldn’t burn charcoal, let alone lime 1 ’
I says. And the ehilder they took it round to
Piety hisself. Well! the kiln was emptied, and
we was going to start another, when he comes
toddling down. ‘ Clear out o’ this! ’he squeals at
me. * You old weather-beaten windbag, you !’ he
cries. ‘ It’s you that knows what spoils the kilns !’
he says; ‘ just you clear out. I’ll put the kiln in
myself this time.’ ‘ And welcome,’ says I, *if yoo
draw it yourself,’ says I.
“ ‘ None of your cheek! ’ he says, coming at me
with the sieve, and so I clears away, larfing to
myself at the mess he’d make of it, and waiting
for his tantrum to blow over. Well, I camps here
in the hut, day by day, and hears them bumbling
away up the valley, putting in the kiln and light-
ing it. Then when it’s time to draw it, I goes up
to the kiln, but no Piety.
“ ‘ He’s not turned up,’ says the quarryman.
“ ‘ And not likely, says I, ‘ with a kil’ful o’
stone. I’d be ashamed to look a man in the face,’
I says. So I sets to work and draws the kiln as
usual. But no Piety. And what’s more, he
wasn’t about his hut, nor nowhere’s. Then I
begins to think and think, and I draws that kiln
slow and steady. But at last I draws a sort of
bit o’ white stick—lime, like the rest. I has a
good look at it, and then says to myself, says I”——•
Here the maundering old man paused, looking
into space, then pulling hirnself together went on :
“ I says to myself : ‘ Here he comes, feet first.’
I thought as much ! It was the shin-bone.”
“ Whose shin-bone? ” I demanded.
“Why old Piety’s, of course,” he replied.
“ What ?—he’d fallen into the kiln ? ” I asked,
horrified.
The old man turned viciously upon me for
damaging his story.
“There you go,” he cried—“blurting the thing
out ! Why, of course he’d fell in the kiln—what
else would he do? There was his tracks to the
kiln edge, and a few bricks gone where he lost his
footing. Well, I jus’ leaves it there and put a
bag over it. Then I goes down to Bill—a-digging
in the orchard—and says to him : ‘ About this
here contrack. Will you ’gree to let me have the
contrack after the old man’s dead ? ’
“ ‘That’s looking ahead with a vengeance,’ he
says, grinning.
“ ‘Never mind,’ I says ; ‘Good onderstandings
makes long fren’s,’ I says.
“ ‘ Oh, just as you like,’ he says, digging away ;
‘ I’m not too pertickler ! ’
“ ‘ That’s a bargain ?’ I asks.
“ ‘ That’s a bargain,’ he says, just to be rid o’
me. Then I says to him : ‘ Come up to the kiln,
I want yer to help me a while.’ So he comes.
Then I takes the bag off the bones. ‘ Look at
that! ’ I says.
“ ‘ Well,’ says he, ‘and what about it?’
“‘Well,’ I says, ‘That’s your respeoted
gran’father; leastwise all that’s left of him. ’
“You could have knocked him down with a
feather. When he comes to see it all, he took on
dreadful.
“‘Good Gawd,’ he says, and ‘’Orrible!
’Orrible !’
“ Then says I: ‘Be a man ! It might have been
wuss. It might have bin me,’ I says—‘ or yerself,’
Isays. ‘lt might have bin me —and then who’s
to burn the lime ? ’ But he took-on all the same.
He took that dreadful a view of it. ‘ Oho ! ’
quavered the old fellow, wagging his head. ‘He
took a gloomby view of it, a very gloomby view of
it!’
“ ‘ Now you go away !’ I says to him, ‘and I’ll
draw this lime, and bag it.’
“ ‘ Bag that lime!’ says he, ‘ and my gran’father
amongst it! ’
“ ‘ My wages is in it,’ I says, firm, ‘ but I’ll get
what I can of him out,’ and so I did, and put the
bone or two on the shed roof away from the
ehilder. Put ’em there not thinking, for there
came a shower of rain while I was away for the
cart, and when I got back the bones had all slacked
up.
“ But look ye here,” went on the old man con-
fidently, “I had my own little idee so as old
Piety’d not be lost sight of altogether. I takes
about harf the lime the bones made—real lime,
mind you—and makes up a bit of mortar for this
here chimbly—which I was building at the time.
S o you see these here bricks and that bit mortar ?
Well, I reckon that’s old Piety’s monument. But
as for the rest, Bill he buried it in the orchard,
and when the Perlice came up there was nothing
left but the buttons.”
POINT BLANK
Martyrdom for the faith in Kalgoorlie :
We had our warmest day for the season on Sunday
last, the mercury registering 107 in the shade. The
gospel service was consequently not a large one. The
chapel is of iron, unlined and unwhitened ; the warmth
can thus be imagined.
A Maoriland correspondent:—
There is a gratifying slump in jingoistic militarism
here; in fact, not even the shrewdest anti-Mafficker
could have anticipated so sudden a reaction. Even
“ King ” Seddon manages to make speeches without
cheap sneers at old Dad Kruger or egging on the Maoris
to a Boer blood-bath. During the late election, candi-
dates of all parties, including those of the most approved
Seddonian brand, declared that it was time to slow-down,
and I heard some speeches which, if uttered by a Bond
orator in Cape Colony just now, would be dubbed
“ treasonable.” The only exception was one Chisholm,
a pious person who sought election for Scotchbyterian
Dunedin and who “ran” as a Jingo-Bible-in-Schools
advocate, but came below little “pro-Boer" Barclay.
For Christchurch, “ Tommy ” Taylor, who has all
along denounced the late war as the work of
a gang of social brigands, topped the poll, and the little
war-trumpet, Collins, found himself unseated ; while for
Auckland City, Napier, the uniformed “ captain ” who
complained to the commandant when some sentries at
the vestibule of Parliament House omitted to salute him,
was badly defeated. Our much-vaunted expansion policy
in the South Pacific has got “ no forrader ” than the Cook
Islands fiasco, and since Napier’s defeat the Auckland
papers have ceased to shout about “the tyranny in Fiji.”
Napier was the chief of the little scheming clique at
Auckland which encouraged the patriot Berkeley in his
plan for bringing Maoriland into the squabbles of Fiji.
The probability is that Seddon’s attempt to set up a rival
Commonwealth will stop short wi th the inclusion of the few
atolls and the leper island which comprise the Cook group.
The plain unpolished truth is that the public has at last
come to its senses. The scandalous intolerance shown by
the “ loyal ” Imperialists towards all who dared to differ
from them is now forgotten by everyone except the
courageous minority who refused to kow-tow to the
apologists for the Rhodesian buccaneers. Nor can
thoughtful, self-respecting citizens forget readily the
shameful orgies when Barnum Powell got himself
“ relieved ” and when peace was patched up with
the Dutch farmers. It was cabled recently that a
private emissary named Wyatt has left Hingland for
the “ Kawlinies,” where he proposes persuading the
people to share the Imperial military burdens. Per-
sonally I would rejoice seeing Wyatt at work, for he
would be trying to wheel a barrow up a rather too ateep
hill.


Tired All the Time
A TfiiTlbiß Fooling of Exficujsfion, Unfit for Buslobss. Dsbliitsfing
Effects of Hot Seasons. All Easily Removed.
<5%
-
“~3s:
Mrs. C. McDonald, of Northcoto,
Victoria, Australia, sends us her
photograph and says:
I v. as a great sufferer from some
of the most terrible forms of indiges-
tion. I was all tired out from morn-
ing until night. My languor made me
unfit for work or business of any
kind, and I was about ready to give up
discouraged. My liver was all out of
order, and this made me suffer -from
constipation and biliousness. Two
remedies completely cured me. I took
Ayer’s Pills to act on my liver and
keep my bowels in good condition,
and Ayer’s Sarsaparilla to purify my
blood, strengthen my nerves, and put
my digestive organs in a healthy
state.”
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Ayer s Sarsaparilla is of great help to almost every one in this debilitatin'*
climate. It prevents exhaustion, keeps the nervous system in good order,
and takes away all that tired feeling. Don’t wait until you are down sick.
It’s much wiser and easier to prevent sickness. When the stomach fails
sickness comes very easy. Profit by Mrs. McDonald’s experience and put your
digestive organs in a healthy state. •
We must caution you against imitation Sarsaparillas. Be sure you get
Ayer s. There sno risk to run with this old, reliable medicine.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
The Oldest, Surest, Strongest, and Best Sarsaparilla
Ayers Pills act on the liver and keep the bowels in good condition.
Prepared by DB. J. C. AYEU & CO., Lowell, Mass.. XT. 3. A.
STre Jtfosi Refreshing 2>rink in jTustralia.
Montserrat”
Liroe-Frait Jaice
ai>6 Cordials . . .
(TRADE MARK)
The LANCET says:—** We
counsel the public to drink
Lime-Fruit Juice whenever and
wherever they list, it is a far
more wholesome drink than
any form of Alcohol.”
**> ' -
«* Montserrat” Lime-Fruit Juice, either with water or aerated water, is
delightful thirst quencher.
Sole Consignees—EVANS, LESCHER & WEBB, LONDON.
EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
Hants: —Elliott Bros., Ltd., J. Connell & Co., Sydney ; D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.
SORE
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORE AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
I\i EVER FAILS.
Ask your Chemist for the Little Book:
HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
i»]i:i:iwk<»H
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA,
m
“ITS A MARVEL!”
EVERY WOMAN
A.
SVjfig
g2iX
• jjp 'Mr-
is interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new FEMALE SYRINGE
Injection and Suction. The best,
safest and most convenient.
It Cleanses Instantly.
If your druggist cannot
the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated Book, sent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
pa rtieulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies Endorsed by Physicians.
Times Building, N.Y.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS —
THE MARVEL CO.
OF AUSTRALIA.
Camden Building, 418 George Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
LADY SPECIALIST IN ATTENDANCE.
Postal Address, Box 623, G.P.0., Sydney
Write for Booklet. Sent free, sealed.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
T?OR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach. Side Headache
. Giddiness, ulness and Swelling after Meals. Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath. Cos r iveness, Blotches on the Skin Dis-
and Trembling Sensations, &c. 'L'HE FIRST DOSE
MILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
GIJT a '’A '^BOX " ° ne X ° f tll6Se and he acknowledged to he “ WORTH A
BEECH AM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,
they act like magic a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are facts’ admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
N ervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieine in
he world. Full directions with each Box,
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is lid, and 2s 9d each.
ROBERTS’
HOTEL, YOU ENJOY YOUR LUNCH
George and Market Sts.*
SYDNEY.
APARTMENTS:
BEDROOM (single), 3s. per DAT.
BEDROOM (double), 6s. per DAY.
Single Room, with. Pull Board, Bs. per
day, or £2 2s. per week.
TERMS. —The convenient
system of paying for the
room on arrivaa and
meals as they are had.
When you come to Roberts’ Hotel
Dining Rooms ; and you not only
enjoy it, but it does you good as
■well. There is always a large and
tempting variety of excellent food on
our menu, and on Fridays there is a
special fish luncheon for those who
want it in addition to the ordinary.
The luncheon is ready at twelve
o’clock sharp—from Is.—and there
is first-class attendance. Dinner and
tea from 5.30 to 7.3 o—from la.
upwards. Silver grill at work.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
HIS MAJESTY
THE KING.
MOiR’S
“MAYFAIR”
TABLE-JELLY
-J?
■
"Medeinhalf-
aminute by
the mare ad-
dition ot boil-
ing water-
IK PINT
PACKE 1 S.
YSTALS
Manufacturers JOHN HOIR ft SOM, LTD., LONDON, ABERDEEN and SEVILLE.
Head Office: 9 & 10, Great Tower Street, LONDON, E.C.
I
I
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
t
M.D., C.M., L.R.C.P.E., L.R.C.S.E.,
L.F.P.S.G., L.M., etc.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great
Britain, Victoria, New South Wales,
etc.,
May be CONSULTED DAILY
ELMLEY HOUSE,
151 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
Dr. MARTIN, during 1 his recent European Tour, visited the Leading Hospitals of GREAT BRITAIN
and EUROPE, and has now at his CONSULTING ROOMS all the latest improvements in ELECTRIC
APPLIANCES, BATHS, etc., and ail the most recent scientific methods of treatment for all NERVOUS,
LUNG, HEART, SKIN, and all CHRONIC DISEASES of Men and Women, including the BROWN-
SEQUARD, KRAFTT-EBING, and KNOX-MERCER TREATMENT for all ACUTE INFLAMMA-
TORY and CHRONIC COMPLAINTS, in the treatment of which he has been so successful during his
U years’ Australian practice, thus ensuring all Patients entrusting themselves to his care an accurate
diagnosis, together with prompt and effectual treatment.
COUNTRY PATIENTS treated by Correspondence (Fee, by letter, £1). Medicines forwarded to all
parts of Australasia. All communications confidential. Dr. MARTIN has treated ever 20,000 oases during
the last 15 years—a success Unequalled by any other Specialist in Australia.
Moderate Charges, Effectual Treatment, Absolute and Rapid Cures,
CONSULTA TION UOUIIS—IO to Si and 7 to 9 Daily.


CELLULOID
COLLAR
GOODNESS ——
Wp sell the good kind of Celluloid
Collars. Our Celluloid Collars
have a nice, white, .dean appear-
ance, and stay white. They clean
well, and last longer than other
kinds. They save lots of money, be-
cause you can wash them yourself.
In all the latest styles and
shapes, at Lowest Prices
for Highest Qualities.
FERDRIAU & CO.
Rubber Merchants,
270 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
WE SHIP ON APPROVAL
and guarantee save delivery
Highest grade Cycles. Fully warranted.
%ts£2. to toiZS. 5.0
Duriiop Tyres, Steel or Wood Rims,
Free Wheels, Mud Guards and Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID
To any Tort in Australasia.
TYRES, ACCESSORIES,
Sporting Goods and Sewing
Machines Half Usual Prices.
Write for Catalogue and Special Offer
Using gjd. Stamp. Address Dept 340 D
Mead Cycle Co.
Chicago,
U.S.A.
60
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W_ C. ZEimDIRXIDGKE & CO,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
Comntrv Orders by post from all the colonies
SIMPSON BROTHERS
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
m
r *♦
*-
•>
32 & 34 Clarenoe Street, SYQMEY.
For all Services kept in Stock*
Send for Oatalogne#
MAM MATT'S
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives & Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
****** '
■«BL>
1 •w.v'hh'lmßb
}. ft 3. MAXFIELD, PbopM., SHEFFIELD
At the Showroom* —
Empire Chambers, 93 York-St*
SYDNEY.
Aim at
"THE BLOCH:*’
Collins-st.. MELBOURNE.
H. P.
CO.,
74 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE: 435 Bourke St.
Have for Sale arrive .
PUMPING MACHINERY of every description, Woodworking Machinery, English and American Eng.nes, boi es.
Injectors Reducing Vaivas, Steam Gauges, Steam Traps, Laundry Machinery, Painters’ and Bakers
Machinery, Engineers’ Machine Tools, Snafling, Plummer Blocks, Pulleys, Hangers, Couplings, Collars,
Lubricating Oil Brunton Pocket Trans ts, Shedd’s Electrical Fans, Hoisting Engines and Boilers. '
PARKE & LACY COMPANY LIMITED
Consulting Engineers on all matters relating to mining, hydraulic, and general engineering
propositions. Manufacturers and importers of mining machinery, and steam engines and boilers
of all kinds. Mines furnished with complete plants—Milling, Concentrating, Cyaniding,
Chlorinating, &c. Pumping outfits designed and supplied with all plans necessary for erection,
capacity guaranteed. All classes of pumps kept in stock and ready for immediate delivery;
together with boilers, pipes, and other items of equipment. Correspondence invited from
pastoralists and others requiring plant for irrigating purposes. Brickworks designed and brick-
making machinery of the most modern and approved pattern supplied to order. Quotations
given for complete installation of any kind of plant whatsoever. Iron and woodworking tools
and all kinds of engineers’ fittings and supplies kept in stock. Agents for Xngersoll rock drills
and air compressors, Knowles pumps, Gates rockbreakers, etc., etc., etc.
60 Clarence St,
Sydney
A.DOHBSSBS :
533 Collins St-,
Melbourne
21 & 23 Fremont St,
San Francisco
TO
itME
DEAF
Sufferers from Deafness or Hea- Raises
desiring a complete and permanent cnre
should write to The L. R. VERNON CO.
hO HUNTER »T., SYDNEY, for pam-
phlet desc ibing an entirely new self-
applied method whieh we will send post
free on mentioning this paper.
NERVOUSNESS.
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at ll i st “is-
cov-red a SIMPLE MEANS of SELF
CURE, 'Will forward the same, free ol
charge, to anyone interested.
Address: A. MINER. G.P.0.. BYPNBY.
AMERICAN
■ “HANN”
HAMMOCKS
The Acme of Comfort
Instantly convertible from Sitting to Reclining Position.
Holds its full width at all times. Has adjustable arms
arid padded head-rest; A Swinging Arm-Chair, conform-
• nc>- to the body, and rests one all over. Made of Fancy
Striped Duck.' strong enough for heavy people. Size,
7ft. x 31,in. The “ Ilann ” Hammock packs small enough
to be sent by parcels post; we, therefore, pay carriage to
any Stdte in the Commonwealth and New Zealand.
PRICE—No. 1 (without fringe) 17/6
No. 40 (with handsome fringe) .. .. 21/-
No. 50 (with valance and fringe .. 25/r
Orders should be addressed-
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY,
229=231’ Collins-St., rielbourne.
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAV;
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
BY USING
*
&
V
fin
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED'
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c. '
BOTTLES, 6d., 1/- A 2/6.
Sole Makers— M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND.
Felton, Grimwade & Co
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
Tiie‘Raplin’ Hand Ice Machine
Ice produced by simply turning handle. A decanter
of water made ice cold in 3 minutes. No risk, no trouble.
Invaluable in the country, where ice cannot be bought.
The ‘Abbott’ Filter
Stops all disease germs. Makes the foulest water pure
and wholesome. Easily cleaned. Erom 22s 6d.
Full Particulars on application to
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd.,
Sole Agents. 71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
RARE ,|
BOOKSI
FRENCH,
ENGLISH,
GERMAN.
2/-
Largest Catalogue, with
Specimen Photo. Apply
Box 116 Paris.
Trewhella Bros.’
PATENT
LOG AND STUMP JACKS.
«»
If you have Stumps, Roots, Stones, or Logs to clear, or
Threshers or Machinery to move, try these Jacks. They
are used by thousands throughout Australasia, and the
sales are rapidly increasing, which proves their value.
You can obtain them from the ironmonger with whom
you deal, or I will supply you direct.
The Melbourne and Sydney Prices are—
Lift, Tons Pricb
Double Purchase Jack 4 65 -
» 99 » 6 75>
Single „ „ 2| 40 -
With AUTOMATIC LOWERINC GEAR, 5/- extra
Full Information and Trade Discounts from
W. TREWHELLA, Trentham, Victoria,
orH. HINDS, 17 iLoftus St , Sydney.
