

The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
A SPECIAL AUSTRALIAN ELECTIONS NUMBER.
PRICE, ONE PENNY.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1903.
PRICE, ONE PENNY.
The Freetrade Fake.
WANTED A REAL FREETRADE
PARTY!
A PRINCIPLE TOO DIRTY TO
PRACTISE.
New South Wales was, for many years, the
one alleged Freetrade State in Australasia,
and the solitary beacon cf Cobdenism in a
dark continent, and it is claimed that it is
still in the beacon business, more or less,
though the light is obscured by extraneous
circumstances. In the bygone years it had
etery kind of Freetrade politician —except
the one who •practised Freetrade. It hail
Freetrade politicians who shouted about the
beauties of Freetrade and (lie aceursfdneps
and obvious folly of i refection ; it had
many lying Freetrade politicians who said
they practised Freetrade when they knew
they didn’t; it had Freetrade political)*
who didn’t get their hair cut, who bor-
rowed half-sovereigns, who were deficient
in education, who wrote alleged poetry.
Who dealt in shady land transactions in
fact, it had every possible Freetrade poli-
tician, except the one who had enough faith
in his own exploded creed to put it into
practice. Their unanimity in the matter
of avoiding their own blessed political re-
medy was idle moA unanimous thihg the
country has ever seen.
PARKE3’ FREETRADE.
Twelve years ago, in 1891, the great Free-
trade epoch of Heniy Pa.Ues came to an
end. His Government included those
liighly-superior scoffers at Protection,
McMillan, -Bruce Smith. Joey Cirrutliers,
Gould, Pa Brunker; Sydney Smith, and
James Henry Young -all dodderers of great
size, whose elevated snort of pity at per-
sons who believed in Protection was =o su-
perior that they wight have been a drove
of emperors or a flock of bra s gods. And
this was the tariff which they supplied to
N.s.w.i
McMillan and Sydney Smith Protective
•’ Tariff (up to 1891).
Protect'n
Import Excise to local
Duties. Duties. Product
Beer (draught) ,6 gal- /3 gal. /3 gal.
Beer (bottled) /9 gal. /3 gal. /6 gal.
Oils /6 gal. Nil /6 gal.
MethTted, Spirits 4/ gal. Nil 4/ gal.
Varnish 2/ gal. Nil 2/ gal.
Wine gal. Nil 5/ gal.
BncOn /2 lb. Nil /2 lb.
Biscuits / 1 lb. Nil /I lb.
Blitter /1 Fo. Nil /I lb.
Candied Fruits /2 lb. Nil /2 lb.
C&ndles /l lb. Nil / 1 lb.
Cheese /2 lb. Nil /2 lb.
Cigars 6/ lb. 2/6 lb. 3 6 lb.
Cigarettes 0/ lb. 2 6 lb. 3/6 lb.
Confectionery /2 lb. Nil /2 lb.
Cornflour /1 lb. Nil /I lb.
Preserved Fruits /I lb. Nil /l lb.
Dried Fruits /2 lb. Nil /2 lb.
Hams, Tongues /2 lb. Nil /2 lb.
Jams and Jellies /I lb. Nil /1 lb.
Fish /1 lb. Nil /I lb.
Raisins /2 lb. Nil /2 l'o.
Raspberry Pulp /I lb. Nil /I lb.
Tobacco 3/ lb. 13 lb. 19 lb.
Snuff 3/ lb N'il 3/ lb.
Buckets 3/ cwt Nil 3/ cwt.
Galvanised ) £1 to £3 \\Tl £1 to £3
Iron Goods I per ton * per ton
Red and White
Lead £3 ton Nil £3 ton
Paint £3 ton Nil £3 ton
Molasses £3 6/8 ton Nil £3 6 8 ton
Sugar (raw) £5 ton Nil £.'>ton
Sugar (refined) £6/13/4 ion Nil £6/13 4 ton
Salt £ I tori Nil £1 ton
Cement 2/bar. Nil 2/bar.
Soft Drinks /9doz. Nil /9doz.
Doors 2/each Nil 2/each
Window/ Rashes 2/each Tvfil 2/ each
Posts and rails 1/6100ft. Nil 16 100 ft.
SDepers 1/6100ft. Nil 16100 ft.
Other Timber Various rates Nil Various
P'nv Newspaper /,} p’st’ge No P’st’ge /f each
Also extensive general Protection to coal
and agricultural produce by differential
railway rates and wharfage rates.
THE DIBBS REGIME.
After McMillan and the two Smiths and
Young and Pa Brunker and the rest of the
superior and conscientious Freetraders who
protected 43 N.S.W. industries had
dropped out, the State had a period of de-
finite and honest, though insufficient Pro-
tection, under thii Dibbs Government. The
Dibbs Government wasn't so very much
more Protective than the Pumpkin Smith-
Bruce Smith-McMillan Government, but it
didn't lie about it, and the rooster of re-
proach didn’t crow on its fence to remind it
that it was a traitor to its principles. Then
followed the alleged Freetrade Government
of Reid, Sydney Smith, Joe Cook, Pa
Brunker, and other strange characters,
which was even more astonished than the
old McMillan push that anyone could be-
lieve in so outlandish a thing as Protection,
and which pitied Protectionists with so wild
and lofty a sniff that it might have been
a herd of archangels.
This was its tariff :
Reid and Sydney Smith and Joe Cook
Tariff (up to 1901).
Protect’n
Import Excise to local
Duties. Duties. Product
Beer (draught) /6 gal. /3 gal. /3 gal.
Beer (bottled) /9 gal. /3 gal. /6 gal.
Wine 5/ gal. Nil 5/ gal.
Tobacco (leaf) 3/ lb. Nil 3/ lb.
Tobacco (manu-
factured 3/ lb. 1/3 lb. 1/9 lb.
Cigars 6/ lb. 2/0 lb. 3/6 lb.
Cigarettes 6/ lb. 2 6 lb. 3,6 lb.
Biscuits /l lb. Nil lb.
Confectionery lb. Nil /I lb.
Jams and Jellies /$ lb. Nil j\ lb.
Sugar (raw) £3ton Nil £3ton
Sugar (refined) £4 ton Nil £4 ton
P’ny Newspapers j\ p’st’ge Nil /*each
Also a large general Protection by dif-_
ferential railway and wharfage and agri-
cultural produce.
LACK OF WORK: ITS REAL CAUSE.
UNEMPLOYED: “Why can’t we get work making some of these things instead of importing them?”
IMPORTER : “ho! Australia’s £40,000,000 worth of annual imports are the backbone of its prosperity. Imports are the only true test of a nation’s greatness.
It becomes great by buying things, not by making them. These imports represent the factories you haven’t got, and the work and wages you
haven’t got—and that’s whole I come in. Get to relief works!"
SOME LIARS.
The situation in brief is this:
(1) Any and every politician, paper, or
person who circulates the hackneyed tale
about the relative progress of N.S.W. under
Freetrade as compared, with Victoria and
other places under Protection is a liar, and
knows he 'is one, for New South Wales
never had Freetrade. Being a liar, he may
settle with his own conscience the question
whether he is a gentleman or not.
(2) Every Freetrade politician who has
held office in N.S.W.. has practised Protec-
tion of set purpose. He was not driven to
it by revenue necessities; instead he lost
revenue by it. By raising the excise on
lo&al beer, wine, tobacco, cigars, and su-
gar, for instance, to the level of the import
duties, the essential feature of Freetrade
(complete freedom of competition and com-
plete absence of Protection) could have
been secured along with an increase of re-
venue. The party which paid away a lot of
money for the privilege of being a traitor
is something unique.
(3) These Freetrade politicians either lied
when they said they believed cordially m
Freetrade as the best policy to promote the
interests of the country, or they deliber-
ately tried to injure the country. In the
latter case the subsidiary question arises
whether they were hired by Paul Kruger or
by some other violent outside person.
THE TREASON OF THE PRESENT.
That is the situation as regards the past.
The past is ‘dead, hut its bones still hang
around in an unpleasant sort of way. With
regard to the present and future, these
bones have a large significance. The al-
leged Freetraders, who now ask to be put
in charge of the destinies of Australia, are
the same, men who did this unexampled
fraud and ’treason in the past. And they
propose ,to do exa'etlv the same fraud and
treason an the future. Among all the
crowd of political bounders who insult the
intelligence of Australia with the assurance
that Freetrade, is an axiomatic truth, and
the only way to commercial salvation, there
is not one who promises to try Freetrade
when he gets into power. There isn’t one.
who doesn't shudder at the,idea of his cal-
lous gospel m actual practice. Not one
person m the whole bunch is prepared to
advocate that every import duty which is
necessary for revenue purposes shall be
counterbalanced by an exactly equal' excise
duty, that postage and railway rates on
Australian newspapers shall be the same
as on imported ones, that railway and
wharfage rates on local produce shall be
the same as on foreign produce, that all
public contracts shall be given to the cheap-
est tenderer—in fact, that Protection shall
be utterly abolished. The Freetrader says’
that, his gospel is the only one that can make
the country great and prosperous, that he
flatly declines to make the country great
and prosperous, that Protection is utterly
disastrous,' that he will practise a certain
amount of the .disastrous policy if he gets
into, power, that Protectionists are fools,
and that he proposes to borrow a good part
of the fools’ policy; and that kind of free-
trader is an undesirable person. Yet be is
the only kind Australia seems to have. .
SOMETHING ABOUT ENGLAND.
Now Britain, until quite recently, was an
absolutely Freetrade country in tlie sense
that it gave no local industry any prefer-
ence whatever over a foreign one. It (lid
not protect its local sugar industry, or its
cigars and cigarettes and tobacco, and beer
and wine, and biscuits and confectionery,
with heavy duties, after the manner of the
bogus Freetraders of N.S.W. It didn’t con-
vey the “ Times ” and the “ Chronicle ”
gratis through the post to give them a start
ever foreign competitors, nor did it subsi-
dise them by 'paying the railways to carry
their daily issue free. It didn't- attempt to
coddle its agricultural and coal industries
by providing, as did the Freetraders of
N.S.W., that local products should be car-
ried by rail at a lower rate than foreign,
products, though it could have done so by a
simple legislative enactment. Where it
was considered necessary to raise money .by
taxing imports of anything that could be
locally produced, ail' exactly equal excise
duty was levied on the local product. So
definite was Britain on this point that the
local growth of tobacco is prohibited ;it is
considered not worth while to put the ex-
cise machinery to work to collect duties
on so small an industry, yet the idea of let-
ting even that small industry be pro-
tected was too shocking to be entertained.
Britain allowed the bracing air of competi-
tion to blow' freely on all ixs industries, and
day after day, with a weary, miserable, do-
lorous iteration George Reid declares that
this'gospel made Britain the most prosper-
ous country on earth —and that he will see
Australia hanged before he will go do
likewise, and McMillan will see it hanged
also.
WHY NOT FOLLOW ENGLAND.
The amount which Britain finds it neces-
sary to raise in taxes is, in proportion to
population, a trifle more than Australia
raises. But Britain doesn’t plead that it is
necessary to levy -heavy Customs duties to
raise revenue, In ordinary years of peace it
collects Customs duties (none of them pro-
tective) xu the amount of about 11s. per in-
habitant per annum. When George Reid
was Premier -of N.S.W. he collected Cus-
toms ’taxes to the amount of about £1
pgr head, and all his duties, save one, were
protective. Britain, in ordinary years,'
raises as much by local taxation on pro-
perty as it, does "by all forms of national
taxation. Out of about £200,000,000 a year
now raised in taxes by the national Go-
vernment ;und the local Government bodies,
only about £30*000,000, even with the new
taxes added, is raised by duties on imports.
The other £170,000,000, with the exception
of some smiill miscellaneous receipts, con-
sists of excise duties, estate duties, land-
tax, hocs.vtax, property-tax, income-tax,
and local rates. Tile local rates average
something like 75., or even more, in the
£ of rateable value (Sydnejl raises Cain
when asked to pay Is. 9d.). Under this
System the Freetrade Party, of which Bruce
Smith is a shining ornament, alleges Bri-
tain has become the greatest, richest, most
progressive, and most enlightened of na-
tions. and an example for all the world to
follow ; and Bruce Smith won’t follow, and
Joe Ccok never even dreams of suggesting
such a thing.
AUSTRALIA DOES NOT DARE.
There is no earthly reason why Australia
shouldn’t follow Britain’s example if it
wants to—except that Pumpkin Smith
holds forth at such awful length about the
advisability of following Britain’s example,
and yet neither he nor Georga Reid evfer
did it when they were in power, and that
eminent alleged Freetrader, P.'t Brtmker,
would fall down dead if the thipg were at-
tempted. It is commonly claimed by sta-
tisticians that the average wealth per head
of Australia is as great as that of Britain,
and N.S.W. claims to be even wealthier
per inhabitant than the rest of the Com-
monwealth. N.S.W. might have followed
Britain’s example in the old Reid days by
cutting down its Customs taxes to about
£700,000 a year (the only duties required
would have been considerably reduced taxes
on spirits, wine, beer, and tobaepo) ; by put-
ting up the excise tax in every case to the
level of the import duty ; by abolishing free
newspaper postage ; by abolishing the re-
duced rates granted on local products; by
protecting nothing—neither sugar, beer,
Freetrade papers, nor' anything else ; by
greatly increasing the income tax, levying
house duties, and property duties; and by
putting the whole State under Local Go-
vernment and fixing the minimum rate to
be levied by the Local Government bodies
at ss. in the £ of the rental value. Joey Car-
vnthers wandered all over the State declar-
ing that, this British policy was the only
true policy, the only way' to wealth, the
only system anybody who was even threat-
ened with intelligence would follow —but
what is the good of all that when Joey Car-
ruthers would rather see Australia dead
than follow his own policy, and James
Alexander Hogue is in the same situation?
AN APPEAL.
“ The Bulletin ” urges Bill Wilks to cease
being an outrage on common sense over .
this matter, and to try to lift Aunt Emma
Pulsford and Nancy Gould out of the ditch
of complication and incapacity which they
inhabit along with him. If they believe, as
they say they do, that Britain’s financial
policy is the only true one, and that that
policy has made Britain rich, it is time for
them to explain why they never attempted
to follow the British policy when they had
the chance, and why ev*rvone of them
would apparently rather die than even pro-
pose to follow it new. When Conroy doesn’t
so much as venture to suggest adopting the
British financial system, what is the use
of Conroy gabbling day and night about the
advantages of that system? In fact, what
is the use of Conroy under any circum-
stances? Either James Thomas Walker
doesn’t believe that tb" Brit'«h “"heme ,of
Freetrade is a good thing, in which case
he shouldn’t say he believes it, or else lie. is
conspiring with Edward Braudon and Du-
gald Thomson to damage Australia by his
shameful and traitorous neglect to advocate
that policy. There is no escape from that
Situation. Ml the lying that was ever lied
about the financial necessities of the coun-
try won’t alter the case one whit. It is esti-
mated by. sta|if tieiaps.that- the average in-
come per inhabitant is £2O a year in Ire-
land, £3B in England, £45 in Scotland, and
£46 in the Commonwealth. The amount
raised by taxation in the Commonwealth is
less than the amount raised in Britain, and
the means of paying it are apparently
greater. It is only a question of adjusting
the burden on the only true British prin-
ciple. Sudden Solomon, of the Northern
Territory, says Britain’s are tha only prin-
ciples fit for any sane man’s consideration,
and he is backed up by Patrick McMahon
Glynn and George Warburton Fuller. Apd
yet these people, especially George War-
burton Fuller, will no more advocate the
adoption of what they say is the only sane
principle and the only road to wealth and
happiness than if their principle were an
alligator or a live serpent.
WILL NO ONE BE A FREETRADER:?
“The Bulletin” appeals in this matter to
Jawbone Neild, with his'beautiful military
clothes on, and asks him, likewise Thomas
(Brown, and a person named Millen, if this
situation : sn’t too ridiculous for any men,of
sense, or even alleged sense, to occupy?
When no alleged Freetrader in the wbele
gang of silly impudent frauds proposes to
make even a” pretence of following Britain’s
example, why drag Britain’s alleged ex-
ample -and its alleged prosperity into,,the
case? When “The Telegraph” and “The
S.M. HerahJ ” would rather slay Georga
Reid till he is quite dead than advocate no
free newspaper postage, and a local rate of
7s. 6d. in the £ on their office-property,
and a honse-tax, and an income-tax of 14d.
in the £, and the abolition of tbe protective
duty on beer, and the rest of Britain’s fi-
nancial methods, why fill their columns with
sore-headed diatribes about how the pros-
perity of Britain arises through these
methods? What have Britain’s methods to
do with he matter, when not one of the
people who dodder verbally about them
proposes to adopt them? “The Bulletin
addresses itself to F. E. McLean, and im-
plore? him not to be an effective political
ass, and to Simon Fraser not to be a worse
political ass than he can heln. If these
people believe that Britain’s policy is a bea-
con lo the world, as they say they do, then,
on their past and present actions, they are
either wilfully seeking to injure Australia
or they are a crowd of grasping hypocrites
seeking to sell their principles for office.
\ m | it’is “up+o” G. B Edwa-rU to explain
his position —likewise Henry Dobson.


Sv^SvC
The Bulletin Books
FOR AUSTRALIA.
i
mriE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER
£_ COMPANY, LIMITED, tenders
sincere thanks to the purchasers
who have made its publishing enterprise
at'once a pleasure and a profit. Gratitude is particularly due to the critics of the
Australasian press, who have recognised in The Bulletin Books an honest
effort to help Australasian literature, and have been most cordial in their
encouragement. It should be mentioned that, in the case of all The Bulletin
Books', 5 a half-share of any profits accrues to the authors concerned. The
Bulletin Books are sold by the leading booksellers throughout Australasia,
Great Britain,'and South Africa, at the prices given; they can be obtained also
direct from the Publishers.
Good older Bulletin Books include Fair Girls and Gray Horses, %
Will Ogilvie (cloth, with portrait of the author ; 4s. 6d.) —one of the njosb
deservedly popular .Australian books of verse. At Dawn and Dusk, by Victor
Daley (cloth, with portrait of the author ; 4s. Gd.)— containing the choice work of
orie who may claim the highest rank among Australian verse-writers. The
Bulletin Reciter, (cloth, illustrated ; 4s. Gd.)—everywhere welcomed as the
best Australian collection of pieces for recitation. On OUT Selection, by
“Steele Rudd” (cloth, illustrated; Gs.) —now in its Twentieth Thousand,
and “the j oiliest book ever published in this . country.” The Bulletin
Story Book (cloth; 4s. Gd.) —the best collection of Australian stories
and ‘literary sketches. Castro’s Last Sacrament, by Albert ,Dt>rring-
ton (cloth; 4s. Gd.) —the most brilliant short stories written in Australia,
Such is Life, by “Tom Collins” (cloth; 4s. Gd )—a classic of the Bush, in
the form of sketches of life, on the Riverina. KP Eor a complete list see
end of books ; or write for The Bulletin Book Circular, illustrated, post-
free to any address.
Good newer Bulletin Books include two just published— Qur New
Selection by'“Steele Rudd.” (cloth, illustrated ; 4s. Gd.)—a sequel to On Our
Selection’ and no less mirth-provoking and characteristic of Australia. And
Hearts Of Gold, by Will Ogilvie (cloth, illustrated ; 4s. Gd.) —a second book
of selected verses, divided into sections entitled “Hearts of Gold,” “After the
Horses,” “Wild-Flowers by the Way,” “Over the Water,” and “ Other Verses.”
No better Australian Christmas Gifts than these books can be found.
Good Bulletin Publications in the press include Phil May in Aus-
tralia a handsome volume of demy folio size (about LBin. by 12in.), bound in
decorated cloth, and containing about two hundred reproductions, printed in
artistic style, of the best of May’s Australian work in cartoons, portraits,,
and humorous, pictures. The edition is limited to 975 copies at 10s. 6d.,
and 25 copies in • superior binding, with extra plate, at £1 11s. Gd.
Subscribers’ names, with remittance, may. be sent to The Bulletin office. Imme-
diate application is advised. The right is reserved to increase the price after
publication, if found desirable. The Bulletin Post-Cards are printed in
three series—pictures by Phil May;; pictures by “Hop”; and pictures by other
Australian illustrators. The fashion of artistic post-curds has now to a great
extent supplanted Christmas and New Year cards; and no better examples than
The Bulletin’s, racy of the soil, can be found for Australian mailing. The Bulletin
Post-Cards are sold at Id. each, or in packets of ten (series) for Bd.; the three
series of thirty cards for Two Shillings. Sold by all booksellers, or forwarded from
The Bulletin office to any address.
The Bulletin Books are written and illustrated in Australia, printed and
bound in Australia. They supply employment to a staall host of Australian.work-
men in half-a-dozen trades. But, “on the wallaby track ” of literature, they claim
hospitality only as far as they are worthy for Australia—our Love to Her!
The Smuggled
(For “The Bulletin.”)
In books we read, the smuggler bold,
The .coast beneath his lee,
On starless nights in times of old
Went forth upon the sea.
And if the customs minions fell
Upon him in the d t k,
He rose and gave those minions hell,
And east them to the shark.
But now you find the contraband
Within an office door.
He cooketh with his strong right hand
His ledger on the shore.
No stormy winds his mainsail fill,
He does not cuss or drink ;
He smuggles with a lying bill
And with a pot of ink.
And up and down the Block you see
The Melbourne girl go 'by
In silks that glitter cheerily,
And joy is in her eye.
The clothes she wears? are contraband,
A sale is, on to-day ;
For dobiton’s faked an invoice, and
His ship lies in the bay.
J.O.
MR. REID AND Ills PARTY.
M R. REID: “Hanged if I know which way THIS
dog wants to go, so it’s not much, use sooting
him on.”
What the Farmer and Miner Gain
by Protection.
(In .what way do the farmer and miner
benfit by. Protection?—Extract from letter
addressed to “ The Bulletin” from Bal-
larat.)
The above question is asked so often
and asked in such.a supercilious, and Spruce
Myth-like, tone, by the Importing Party,
that it calls for an answer.
(1) The farmer profits by Protection be-
cause it raises a- large manufacturing popu-
lation to buy his produce, lie can’t eat all
his produce himself. He can’t sell all the
surplus to importers’ clerks, for there are
not enough of them. He must sell it to
the people who make his boots, hats, and
clothes,, and his wife’s and daughters’ boots,
hats, and clothes, also to the people who
make his implements, furniture, whisky,
etc. If these people are at his own door
he sells them his potatoes at 6s. per ewt.
If they .are in England he can send his po-
tatoes to them here, and after paying
freights, insurance, and middlemen’s
charges,, and allowing for depreciation en
route, lie.gets about 4s. per cwt.
(2) The reason why farmers are compara-
tively. ..poor. ,i,ri ~Eastern Gippsland, and
many other places, is that there is no large
manufacturing towns thereabouts to buy
their produce. Protection will supply such
towns in time.
(3) Protection benefits the farmer by sup-
plying him with locally-produced imple-
ments at a cheaper rate than the importer
supplied them. Under Freetrade the im-
porters’ ring charges extortionate prices,
while there is no local competition. When
local competition starts it cuts down prices
till the local manufacturer is killed off.
Then it starts to be extortionate again.
(4) The farmer benefits by Protection be-
cause it creates mamT'actoring industries in
which some of his sons can find employ-
ment.-'Everybody can’t be “on the land,”
and if everybody tries to be on the land the
competition for land runs up prices and
rents to a hideous extent. Rack-rented Ire-
land has long been an example of the fear-
ful prices people will pay for the use of a
few barren acres when they and their fami-
lies must go on the land for want of other
occupations.
(5) The farmer benefits by Protection be-
cause it prevents other countries, when
they have a specially large harvest, 'putting
their surplus on his market to sell for what
it will fetch, and reducing prices to starva-
tion level.
(6) The miner benefits' by Protection be-
cause it supplies him with cheap tools, as
mentioned in paragraph 3.
(7) Ho 1 benefits because it creates manu-
facturing industries which employ thousands
of people, who would otherwise be glad to
take his job at half-rates rather than starve.
And Ihese same manufactures provide work
for his sons when the mines give out.
(8) He profits because adequate Protec-
tion would create ironworks here, and then
many hundreds of. miners would find work
digging out iron ore. He profits because if
our manufacturing is done here instead of
in Europe and Ameiica, then the factories
use Australian instead of foreign
coal, and that would furnish employment
for hundreds of extra coal-miners. He
profits because if our brass-works, and
other metal works, were here instead of in
Europe and America, the metal would be
used here; the saving of freight and
charges ’ would increase profits ; and that
would allow of better wages ; also, many
mines that could be worked at a small profit
if the product was used here can’t be
worked at all when the product has to pay
freight to England or Germany—the freight
item being sufficient to turn what would,
otherwise be a small profit into a loss.
(9) The miner and the farmer, in short,,
profit bjr Protection because it creates
manufactures which supply them with
cheap implements, , which buy their pro-
ducts, which save them freight charges,
and which reduce the competition in their
industries by finding work for people who
would otherwise have to -comgete with them
or starve.;, Every toiler profits by the crea-
tion of new industries.’ If by abolishing
Protection you close up am industfy in Mel-
bourne which supports 1000 men, there are
1000 men To gradually disperse themselves
over Australia and compete for everybody’s
job, and offer to cut under everybody’s
wages, till even the man who drives a cow
at Port Darwin feels the conseouences.
The people who- ask what benefit the
miner and”farmer receive from Protection
shouldn’t narrow themselves down to that
•one question. They might as well ask what
benefit the miner and farmer, gain by naval
defence, seeing that they mostly lie remote
from th.e'sea; or by a University, seeing
that, it is generally far.a wav in the capital;
or by a Government and Parliament as they
don t sit in the farming districts or on the
goldfields'.. Protection benefits the farmer
and the miner ipst as much as it does anv-
bodv else. 1 Tf; Australia made one yea-r’i*
trial of real there would be si.rcb
a closing up of manufacturing i’j-
dustriesivjijnd such desperate eompeiitW',
as a consequence, in the remaining indus-
tries, that the Kalgqoi-lie. gold-miner wo bid
have cause to be glad if his wages didfa't
fall below £1 a week.
Fiscal Facts.
Misfakes will occur in the best regulated
invoices.—lmporter.
* * #
The foreign-traders ideal of Australia—
A land flowing with bilk and bunny.
* * *
In the Protectionist United States 10 per
cent, of the people own 70 per cent, of the
national wealth. That is plutocracy. In
Freetrade Britain less than one per cent, of
the people own 70 per cent, of the national
wealth. That is h—l.
* * *
The most wearying item in the daily
papers nowadays is that perpetual headline
“ Australia’s Need of Population.” When
Australia makes such a lamentable hash of
the job of finding work for the population
it has got, the less said about the need of
more population the betteh
•X- *X"
It is a bitter commentary on the N.S.W.
Freetrade idea to see in a Sydney pro,
vision ‘hop the notice:
Fine Canadian Geese and Turkeys. •
N.S.W. has had th.e importing disease so
severely that it has got out of the way of
even keeping its own poultry.
-x- -x- -x-
The Freetrade Party will be long in re-
covering from that disastrous speech by
British Freetrader Campbell-Bannerman,
in which he declared that practically orie-
third (12,000,000) of the people of Free-
trade Britain have insufficient food, and
live perpetually on the verge of hunger.
* * *
The Federal tariff at first proposed an
adequate duty (3d. a lb.) on blue. One big
English firm thereupon prepared to build a
factory in Sydney to manufacture the
article locally and employ 000 hands. The
duty was lowered to a nominal figure by the
efforts of the unpatriotic Foreign-traders,
and the factory project was promptly
abandoned.
* x- ' x-
Some tariff facts: Under the Parkes
scale of ditties a flourishing oil-industry
was being built up in N.S.W. (Joadja
Creek alone gave employment to 1100 men).
The Reid tariff pratcicaliy destroyed the
industry, and the Federal tariff continues
the crime. A return to the Parkes scale of
duties on kerosene oils would build up
another great industry in N.S.W.
* -*
Sydney “D.T.,” March 19:
“ Canada has vast tracts of rich land to
cultivate, and is near the world’s great
markets. In that respect she enjoys large
large natural advantages oyer Australia,
The prosperity of the .country as compared
with the condition of Australia is not all
due to mere 'circumstance, ' however.
Canada’s resources have lately been skil-
fully developed and brought into use.”
Yes, by high Protection. But the “ D.T.”
didn’t explain that.
x- * *
Line from a recent trade-circular issued
by W. and A. McArthur, of Sydney (Fo-
reign-trader McMillan’s firm):
“Colonial Flannels and Colonial Blan-
kets specially manufactured for us in Vic-
toria.”
Now, why does McMillan get his goods
specially manufactured in Victoria? Is it
because many years of Protection have en-
abled it to do better anc} cheaper work on a
larger scale than the McMillan-cursed
State of N.S.W., is it?
* * *
The woman-voter who wants to buy laces
and things isn’t going to be such easy prey
as Yes-No Reid's crowd thinks. There was
a meeting at Bendigo after George had
opened the local campaign, and one of
them asked this: .“ If Freetrader means that
we can buy cheap, why don’t he give us
Freetrade?” And, when no satisfactory
explanation was forthcoming, that woman-
voter promptly declared that the man with
the eye-glass was a fraud—just gs bad a
fraud as the men who advertised bargains,
and always told the people who turned up
to get them that he was sorry, but he had
just sold out of that line.
* * *
Some evidence re the blesings of a low
tariff given before the iron bonus commis-
sion :
“Joseph Vaughan, ironmaster, of South
Melbourne) ‘stated that he manufactured
angle, T, and bar iron, -the raw mateg-ial
being scrap iron drawn from the various
Australian States. Witness employed’ 80
hands. They worked only 26 weeks last
year, the cause being competition by Bel-
gium, from which place a lot of steel was
imported. Belgian competition was -so
keen that he anticipated pulling his works
down and taking them to South Africa.
Some of the best of his men would be taken
over too.
. * -x- *
“Vanity Fair” (London) on the annual
reunion of the Cobden Club—that “ great”
Freetrade organization which consists' of
233 Britishers and 242 foreigners who sool
Britain along the road Unit pays the
foreigner best:
“ So long as a single ox is fattened or a
single ear of wheat is grown in N these
islands there will always be occasion for
melancholy gatherings, such as that which
met last week to munch its foreign bread
and foreign meat to the greater glory of the
foreigners. A dinner of the Cobden Club
resembles nothing so much as a horde of
sick vultures sitting round a well-picked
skeleton.
* x- *
New Anglican Bishop of Melbourne has
evidently the Marrow of the Matter in
politics. To a Melbourne Unemployed de-
putation, the other day, he said:
“ That he was surprised to find in this
city that there were not, more mills, factor-
ies, and workshops. No great city could
live on itself, it must have established in
its midst productive and remunerative un-
dertakings. This country was full of raw
material. They had wool, timber, and
plenty of coal-mines and precious metals,,
but this was not a manufacturing country,
and it struck him as being strange and sin-
gular that wool should be .sent from Mel-
bourne to England to be manufactured in
the looms of Lancashire and Yorkshire, and
then sent back to Australia, not even the
high duty imposed making up for the loss
of the pieople of the country, incurred
through not- having manufactured goods on
the spot. One of the first needs was more
mills, factories, and workshops, to enable
them to manufacture for themselves, and
not depend so much on other countries out-
side.”
The Rev. Clarke is the most sensible
bishop, “The Bulletin” can just now call
to nyemory. It is, in fact, a puzzle why
such, a clear-headed man should be a
bish#op.
From; a recent English work “ Our Em-
pire under Protection and Freetiade ":
“Taking Bodia’s prices of wheat in the
principal continental markets for an
A verage of sixteen years, the cost of wheat
'in a quartern loaf, compared with the Lon-
don cost, is as follows:—In Paris Mid Brus-
sels, three-quarters of a farthing more ; in
Amsterdam, one-quarter of a farthing less ;
in Rome, half a farthing less; in Berlin,
two farthings less; in Buda-Pesth, two and
three-quarter farthings less; and in
Vienna, five farthings less.”
And all those years the Englishman has
been priding himself on the supposit’en
that Freetrade had made his country pie-
eminently the country of the Cheap‘Leaf.
To exorcise this: A National tariff and fair
labor laws.
Reducing the Australian Tariff.
AND THE RESULT!
Malcolm McEacharn told Melbourne
Chamber of Commerce, at its annual meet-
ing, that Victorian imports had lately been
increasing largely, to the great injury of
Victorian manufacturers. “The Argus”
ought to have got great joy out of the fact,
and to have shown conclusively that Vic-
toria was having a far better time than
usual. Instead, however, it proceeded to
be almost violent, and to say that
Malcolm was no gentleman. Why the
Freetraders should have such a horror of
Freetrade triumphs this paper doesn’t
know ; it simply notes the interesting fact
that the Freetrader nearly always does act
violently when it is pointed out to him
that imports are booming and that our own
people have less work and wages in conse-
quence. In ordinary circumstances there
i certainly -diuuid have beennand would have
been no such increase. Practically no loan
money has been coming into the" country,
while the average earnings of the people
have, for the past 18 months, been less
than usual. Notwithstanding these things,
many extra thousands’ worth of foreign
goods have been imported. lif other words,
at a time when Victoria was thrown to an
unusual extent on its own resources
through the slamming of the money-lenders’
doors, and at the very time, too, when the
“great natural industries” failed and the
protected industries were more than ever
needed to keep the people employed, Vic-
toria received far more than usual of fo-
reign-made goods, and had to find the
money to pay lor them, just when it had less
than usual to pay with. As the result of a
long-sustained policy of Protection, the
State had practically shut out foreign
boots and shoes ; in 1889 only £38,483 worth
were imported ; all the rest of its boot re-
quirements its own workmen supplied. The
Federal tariff, however, brought down the
Victorian duty. It had been almost, but
not quite, enough to keep for Victorians
the work of shoeing Victorians; a little
whittled off that, duty, already barely
sufficient, opened the doors of the State
for £77.154 worth of these foreign goods in
1902. In the furniture tragle the position
was a good deal worse, simp it because the
reduction of duty was worse. A3O per,
cent, duty in 1899 secured for Victorians
the supply of all but £32,568 of their re-
quirements ; 10 per cent, was knocked off
the protection, and in 3902, notwithstand-
ing that the bootmaker and the farmer had
less money to spend on furniture, £85,487
worth came in from abroad and had to be
paid for. The clothing* trade suffered even
worse again than the furniture trade. With
duties ranging from 35 to 40 per cent,
against him, the foreign worker could only'
find a Victorian market in 1889 for goods
valued at £186,015 ; in 1902, when the pro-
tection had been reduced to from 15 to 25
per cent., the foreigner wrested from Vic-
toria’s own workmen £254,762 more trade
than he had in the earlier year. Precisely
the same thing happened in connection with
the manufacture of machinery,- brushware,
earthenware, matches, and hats—-the protec-
tion was reduced, and the foreign imports
increased. Msre money had to be paid to
the foreigner when there was less to pay
him with. And yet the amount by which
the duty was reduced seemed in most cases
small; it was just the sort of small conces-'
sion which even the Daily Syme, when he
sent his Freetrade friends, Simon Fraser
and Zeal, fo the Australian Parliament,
seemed to think it necessary to make to
Freetrade. If Victoria is Protectionist it
must vote Protection. In the Vic. State
Parliament one or two. alleged Freetrade
members did not seriously count. In the
Australian Parliament, however, they do
count; there they can join forces with
the Calico Jimmies from other States, and
the combination, even if it isn’t strong
enough to rule, is at least strong enough to
win concessions—the concession, say; of a
15 per cent, duty instead of one of 20 per
cent. Victoria ought to know now what
concessions of that kind cost; and, know-
ing the price, it should once and for always
resolve to give up sending anv more Frasers
and Zeals to the Australian Legislature.
A German critic (Admiral Livonius) on
the British navy : '
“ The old British tactical and seamanlike
superiority is gpne. We can unhesitat-
ingly claim it for ourselves. Ships do not
fight, but men ; and to multiply ships with-
out the men is futile.”
The criticism points, to an undoubted weak
spot—the increasing difficulty of getting
men for the British navy. Australia by
Suggesting preferential treatment .for the
Boy of the Bulldog Breed, shows a way out
of the difficulty, but England is blind
to it.
Our Brown Brother.
(For “The Bulletin.”)
“ Are we not, brothers, subjects of the
same great Empire Press, everywhere.
There are many men who come across the
sea,
And some of them are black, and some are
brown ;
And some of them are moral, but they're
dirty in a quarrel,
And knife you once go down ;
But the queerest of a quaint old band
Is our brother from the coral strand —
Our brother with hi 3 dirt and his animated
shirt,
And the bundle in his unclean hand.
He knoweth not the blessedness of Soap,
He careth not a curse.for Beer;
He’s a lanky son of Hades, and he louts
before the ladies.
With an oily “Missee, please look here!”
Our brother from the Chutnee land,
Our brother with the greasy brand,
Our brother with his dirt and his animated
shirt,
And the bundle in his unclean ,hand.
Our brother is a man of toil,
Our brother is a Ganges worm,
He was meant to grub for money in a
placid land and sunny,
And give shelter to the homeless germ ;
Our brother of the hawking band,
Our brother with his sauve demand,
Our brother with his dirt and his animated
shirt,.
And the bundle in his unclean hand.
We’re bothered with the brown Afghan,
We’re smothered by the smooth Chinee,
We’ve always had to bustle and to try a
bitter tussle
With the spawnings of the Heathen Sea;
But—we shudder in a bright young land,
At our brother with his dirt and his ani-
mated shirt,
And the bundle in his unclean hand!
Q-
L.
Mr, Roid (and Dry Dog) have spoken
ai Bow-wow re! One shilling was
charged for admission.
“ Se,y, Bill, this show is a fraud.
He don’t sing or dance or walk on a.
rope, and there ain’t no band.”
The Mission of Parliament.
To the Australian citizen who believes in
his own country, who does not agree with
the cowardly, whining cry of
importing gang that Australia is only fit to
be a low-wage country dragging a few rough
products from a reluctant soil, there is no
more sorrowful symptom of national, sloth
and carelessness than the growth in this
continent of a landlord system matching in
iniquity that of England, -and even Scotland
and Ireland. With manufacturing indus-
tries of its own and easily accessible land,
Australia can grow to be a great country ;
without them—both are vitally necessary
—it must steadily degenerate into a poor,
dishonest, sponging couiftry, irredeemably
pledged to foreign money-lenders, and sunk
in a slough of stagnation. It is the mission
of tjus National Parliament to open up for
the Commonwealth both these paths to
national greatness, and the means in one
case is a tax on unimproved land values,
graded so as to reach almost the point of
confiscation in the case of huge estates
owned by absentees and locked up against
settlement.
“ The leader of the Opposition. (George
Reid) in the House of Representatives,
after severely criticising the Naval Subsidy
Bill, announced that he would vote for
it,” —
The House of Reps, can always guess
How George’s vote will go—
For what he damns his Vote is Yes ;
For what he pra’ises, No.
ONE OF THE DOGS THAT REID KEPT DRY- THAT HE WAS AFRAID
TO THROW INTO THE FREETRADE WATER.
A definite statement in G. IT. Reid’s an-
nouncement of his policy :
“ The bond of union amongst us is first
the removal of the present Government,”
Exactly. Our joint and several office-
hunger keeps us together.
Eubbish Shot Hero.
(For “The Bulletin.”)
The State of Victoria under (he low
Federal tariff, in 1902 impor-red ai.< ut-
£3oo,ool worth of apparel, slops, boots and ■
shoes more than it did in ’99 under the
ccmj datively L.gl. State tariff.
Compared wjtli other young countries the
Australasian increase of population ias
been very trifling during the last decade.
In Cauda and the United States manu-
facturing is increasing enormously; there
is a good demand for skilled and unskilled
labor ; wages are high ; and the populations
are increasing rapidly.
During last harvest Canada had to im-
port 5000 farm laborers from Europe at 10s.
a day and their keep.
The United States and Canadian tariffs
are practically prohibitive.—Gist of News
Items.
The Canuck and the Yankee build up high
the tariff wall
So high it keeps the work inside ; there’s
work for one and all.
And brave hearts flock unto their shores
from every land on earth ;
And uncle and our cousin grow in wisdom,
wealth, and worth.
These people love their own home-land,
and Strive to make it free;
Unlike our creatures cringing to some Jews
across the sea ;
Our Mcßillions and our Shoddy Smiths
and Reids, with dogs still dry.
All barracking for Shoddy whilst they wink
the other eye.
The ash-heap we call politics, there Dives
reigns supreme ;
In Press and Mart and Parliament his ser-
vile trucklers , scheme,
And everywhere the voices of our anti-
quated drones
Chant: “ Let-us shirk the •'axes; let us
keep on cadging loans.”
We build the bridge, we paint the fence,
we fell the forest tree,
We shovel mud, we shift the sand, we shoot
it in the sea,
Our silly Stop-gap;, schemes result in heaps
of wood, and .'stones ;
And to. pay: us for our efforts we just float
a few more loans.
ALONE.
“There is no safety for the nation that
neglects the sinews of war; there is no
safety for the nation that his its merchant
navy pass into the hands of, foreigners, and
no safety for the nation that prefers lascars
and colored seamen to white men.”—Pre-
mier Deakiu.
Poisonous Newspapers.
All the. “ great daily ” papers—combined
as they are in a Trust to limit the cost of
production and to influence Governments
for concessions—whilst they may differ in
minor details, agree absolutely in model-
ling their news columns to suitjhe business
interests whose advertising constitutes
their chief support. Newspaper lying and
suppression is carried to the degree of a
fine art. It is not one capital only that is
affected ; all the metropolitan centres have
their news supply poisoned ; and where all
agree to deceive there is no hope of correct-
ing one by comparison with another. It
would be perhaps possible for an intelli-
gent man who read all the daily papers of
London, and compared their various ac-
counts, to come to some fairly accurate
knowledge of passing events. That is not
possible in any Australian capital. In re-
gard to 'N.S.W. matters, the two morning
papers are practically one as regards policy
and news. They have the same cable ser-
vice for all news outside of Australia, and
they have a very thorough understanding—
conscious or unconscious—as to the tinging
of local news to please the importing and
shop-keeping interests. One has more
■scruple, .‘the other less shame; that is
merely a degree of difference, not a dif-
ference, And they supply the news of this
State not. .only to the State, but to all. Aus-
tralasia ; from their offices and from
columns opjy does news flow, and the pol-
luted stream thus spreads from a State to
overflow a continent. . ,
The present Australian Government can
get -no fair play in the news columns of the
daily press, because it. refused to continue
the subsidies given by the State Govern-
ment to the newspapers, and because, guard-
ing the interests of the community, it does
not strain nor wink at the law in the in-
terests of the drapery and other importing
concerns. The cause of Australian Nation-
alism can get no fair play in the news co-
lumns of the daily because their pro-
prietors are suppliants for Imperial favors,
or the friends of such suppliants. The
rights of organized Labor can get no fair
play in the daily papers Because those rights
infringe on the class privileges of shoddy
capitalism. This poisoning—repeated daily
—of the comjuunity with false news has be-
come a great public danger ; it threatens to
destroy, civicfreedom and to enslave the
people to- a newspaper bureaucracy! As
mischievous- redly as a daily supply of tu-
berculous rajlk or of infected bread, the
poisonous stream of misinformation calls for
some siipilgr, measures of suppression. The
difficulties in the wav of effective precau-
tion are very great, but not insuperable.
One day 'the common-sensei of the com-
munity may be awakened to the extent of
putting in the dock—with the Customs
swindlerw-the newspaper proprietor who de-
iiberatfeiy”circulates falsehoods.
The world is pretty well divided into iron-
raising countries and foreign-loan raising
countries. Britain, France, Prussia, and
the United States, etc., raise iron; Turkey,
Australia, South America, and other places
raise foreign loans when they can get them.
The raising of iron, loans, infants, and Cain
are the four rises which condense the
world’s history.
* * *•
Enfranchised woman should turn a deaf
ear to those who urge that her duty is “ to
find out the probable candidates and insti-
tute a searching inquiry into their moral
character and history.” That might mean
voting for the respectable sweater who lives
a life of conjugal propriety, and by means
of starvation -wages drives many women on
to the streets. It certainly would mean
that every political organization of women
would Become a scandal-collecting machine,
and that’s not the way to do good work in
politics, A safe .working principle for the
female voter is that every man’s morals are
questionable, but that not every man has
been found out.


By Special Appointment to I«is
Excellency'"the Governor-Genera)
T
Gentlemen’s
HAIRDRESSER,
30 Sydney Arcade, Sydney
(the Arcade that ristis from- George-: t. to King-at.)
IIOUIir..-S.SO a.m. until .6.30 p.m. ; ,
I ; Saturdays, 9 odec:;
THE HOUSE for PIANOS,
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS of EVERY
DESCRIPTION, and MUSIC . . .
F. AENGENHEYSTER & GO.
325 GEORGE ST.
SYDNEY
CASH OR TERMS.
Agents for PLEYEt,, THfEsOUVItLE, BLUTHNER,
LfPPMEYER, PAUL WERNER, HERB ST & KAYSER.
AH Goods delivered FREE to Nearest Port or Railway.
C3AT.IAPHCNSS, the Moat Perfect Talking: Machines.
CITIZENS’ LIFE ASSUAANGE COMPANY
LTD.
«s ■ CASTLEREABH & MOORE STS.. SYDNEY
H
Accumulated Funds exceed £1,000,§00 Sterling.
Assurances in Force, nearly £9,000,000,
Claims Paid Each Working Day Awerag© £2OO
Yearly Income, £400,000.
Dill Macky as the Emissary of Rome
poeiation booms, so violently declares that
this tariff, which gives the Australian Pro-
testant a start over the Belgian Catholic, is
the head and front of the Government’s (of,
fendiijg, and tlie fact that the most, Protest-
ant States of the Commonwealth voted for
that tariff makes the offence even more hor-
rible. . . .
The Protestant Defence Association,
therefore, represents this whole lot of
curious positions:— ■ ■
(1) It is howling with the “ State Rights ”
party.- That party want's to' keen as much
One of the most remarkable aspects of
tlie Fedefel election campaign in' N.S.Wfi
arises out“ of'the attitude of that Dill-Macky.
institution, the Protestant Defence Associa-
tion of N.S.W/ All .over N.S.W. it is no-
minating candidates or endorsing .-candi-
dates, and its influence goes bodily and.all
the .time into the Fyeetrade scale,- All .its
candidates;, are .Freetraders. Tlie. importers
of Sydney have apparently succeeded in
nobbling a . Crowd of simple-minded clergy-
men whose ignorance of the political matters
they are fooling with is like that of the
spider who steps jauntily on the hot stove
and doesn’t know what has happened to him
till he bdils. The Protestant Defence As-
sociation has sold itself bodily to the im-
porters and hasn’t got the money. It lias
been persuaded in the unworldly, simplicity
that, conies of much theology that Freetrade
and Protestantism go together; and that
they are synonymous terms. 1 So- it has
propped up the importers’ party with its
yellow banner, and , lent its aid and ■’ coun-
tenance to the hook-nosed Jews of trade and
to the payochialists who, denohnv imagi-
nary “ Victorian conspiracies.” Calico and
religion run tandem, but calico goes first
and hauls religion behind it.
So far as concerns Australasia, Freetrade
and Roman Catholicism have in the main
gone together. N.S.W. is the only State
which even talks Freetrade to any serious
extent, and it holds a larger proportion, of
Roman pathblice than any other Si'afe, a
much larger oho than the average of the
other States, and a very rimeh larger one
than the mb=t distinctly , ProteS-itipnist
States.' I AtistralasSa Freetrade and holy
water era not synonymous, but they have a
tendency that way ; and a wide belief in the
blessings and advantages' of depriving bar
own people, of work for ~, the benefit of
foreign ’ Catholics has always . been . the
strong point of the province which has the
belief iii Papal infallibility most strongly
developed. The following is the religious
position of the Commonwealth States and.
Maoriland according to the latest census
returns:
Roman Catholics per
1000 Inhabitants.
New 'South Wales 260
Queensland 246
Westraiia 234
Victoria ... ■■■ 25*?
Tasmania 179 ■
Sqpth Australia 148
Maoriland 146
Thus we get the curious result that the
importers’ policy lias led the Protestant De-
fence Association to declare war against the
political policy of all the most Protestant
States of the Commonwealth. The im-
porters htiva'even led it to dcrfoitflco the
Protectionist methods of the' most rigidly
Protestant States of the union (Victoria,
Tasmania, and South Australia) as a Papal
device and ail uiiholy Roman dodge. And
at the bidding of the importers the Dill-
Macky league has thrown in its lot .with the -
narrow-minded, parochial, State-frights ,
crowd, whose perpetual cry of woe is that
N.S.W. should keep aloof from the strongly
Protestant States, especially Victoria and
South Australia; which sees, in everything
that happens a “Victorian conspiracy”—
in other words, a Protestant conspiracy—
arid'in-everything that doesn't happen tome
underhand Victorian and Protectant, be-
devilment, too complicated for explanation.
If the Diil-Maeky crowd carries the day. Ave
will see the spectacle of a strongly Pro-
testant and Protectionist Government in
office, and all the Protestantism that Dill-
Macky can raise in N.S.W. in oppositions
and trying to pull that Gpvcrnihent down*
and carefully cultivating dissension between
N.S.W. and the more Protestant Statmr-by
its blood-curdling howl of “Victorian con-
spiracy.”
The declared policy of the Freetrade
party, to which the Dill-Macky crowd has
sold itself is, in brief; to lower the customs
barriers so that the mostly-Prot-estant Aus-
tralian workman may "be unemployed while
the market is flooded with the goods of the
mostly (Catholic workman outside. If Bill
Maeky and Co. were a- Romish conspiracy
blessed by the Pope and with holy water
poured all over it. Dill Maeky and Co.
could hardly be toiling harder to boost up
foreign Roman Catholic interests. By way
of throwing some light, on this aspect of the
case, the following figures regarding a num-
ber of our industrial competitors are of
interest:
Roman Catholics per 1000 Inhabitants.
Spain 999 Switzerland ... -HO
Portugal ... 998 Germany ... 361
Mexico 998 Holland ... 340
Italy 998 N.S. Wales ... 260
Belgium 997 Queensland ... 246
Cent, America 990 Westraiia ... 234
South America 970 Victoria - ... 223
France ... ... 960 Tasmania ... 179
Austria ... 790 S. Australia 148
Hungary ... 515 Maoriland ... 146
Canada. ... 415 Australasia ... 216
Leaving out England, Scotland, and the
United States (though they also have a
strong Catholic element) Australasia is the
most P/ffffest'ant among the large communi-
ties of .the world. And, beyatrie of irieffi-
eierit Protection, its Protestant workmen
are to a great extent unemployed while the
imports of Catholic countries pour iri here
wholesale. Australia’s imports from Britain
dilriinisned by £1,400,00(1 between 1891 and
1901, while those from a handful of largely
Catholic foreign States increased by nearly
£3,000,000, and those from foreign'States in
general by nearly £6,000,000. The situa-
tion would have been probably much worse
but for. Australia’s Protective tririff. And
the.party which the Protestant' Defence As-
pow.er as possible in the hands, of the, State,
Government, which iri N.S.W. A
population which is 26 per cent. Catholic ;
and to- keep as much power as possible out
of the hands of the Australian Government
which represents a pbpulation that is only
per cent. Catholic. It “barracks” for
the interests of the most'Catholic Legisla-
ture against those of the most Protestant
Legislature.
(2) It is howling with the party which .sys-
tematically denounces the strongly Protest-
ant Slates of the Commonwealth as being
in a “conspiracy”, against N.S.W., , and
which, by its yeljSouthern domina-
tion,” seeks to (hminish the interests of
the strongly Protect States.
it is with the party which is constantly
seeking to Build up an alliance between the
two most strongly Catholic States of the
Commonwealth (jj g.W. and Queensland)
against the three m o?r. Protestant States.
(4) It is lendina all possible aid to the
party which declares it is » shameful and
disgraceful proceeding to give the Protest-
ant Australian workman a tariff preference
over the Catholic Italian or South American
or Frenchman or Belgian'.
(*>) It is aiding the party which declares
that_ cheapness is the, only question to be
considered,, and that if a Belgian “ idoMtor”
or a squalid Italian “Papist” can do the
iobTor fid. less he, should have it every time.
(6) It is acting as fugleman and banner-
bearer to a squalid gang of largely Jew and
foreign non-Protestant i monsters, who de-
nounce tlip ProtsctivA policy- which has al-
ways been associated with the most Protest-
ant States of Australia ; who denounce the
socialistic policy which is associated with
the most Protestant State in Australasia
(Maoriland) ; who denounce every attempt
to build up industries to employ the Pro-
testant workers of Australia as j; coddling,”
and other bad names; who denounce the
present Australian Government because it
is supported by the most Protestant States of
Australia—in fact, who are against Protest-
ant traditions and interests in every possible
direction.
The Dill-Macky movement would be a.
screaming jest if it wasp’t also a tragedy.
The 1 spectacle of a- violent Protestant body
allied with importers,; who are often Catho-
lic and sotpefimes. Jew, to boom the indus-
try of Catholic Belgium and France, against
that .of Protestant Australia, and helping
the State Eights party to rouse up the moat
Catholic State of the Commonwealth in hit-
ler animosity against tlie most Protestant
States; and lending itself to tlie clique
w hich can sav nothing worse t>f N aay idea
than iliat it is “Victorian”—that It comes,
from Victoria, which is much more mark-
edly Protririaht than N.S.W. —is something
to malic the gods weep, if there were any
geds.
There was once a tfiart almost
stark naked and possessing noth-
ing—except an abundance of
Freetrader literature. • -
Winch he tl id, and looted cut to aea,
and waited for Revenue—because he’d
read in the Preetrade press t hat if all',
the rngar consumed in Australia last,
year had been imported We should haw
hod £357,000 import duty. , - ■
; Who said to himself-v I
•iliust live somehow!
hold! i will open me a Cus-
toms House 1 ”
But there was o/tjy the vacant sea line. No -hipsl
arrived, laden with tig, r or anything else—lee,-use hej
hadn’t bought any, no- ..ad a red cent nor a I .rt.'ing s-j
worth of credit to buy a.y ; 1
' Visitors eatee and
looked at him, and
„ .said ; “ What are you
doing?” And he said :
“Waitingfor Revenue.”
And they went away
and smiled.
And ‘hero wdre only he and the vacant sea line,
ile never did any work, buj, waited on there,
and got icinner and colder..
Other Vimtißra came and offered him
a sheet of bark, and said : “ Why
don’t you cover yourself 1 . This ’ere
ain’t much, but it’s better than
rnothing.” But he said : “No! I’m a
Freetrader, and waiting fop Rsvsnue.”
I He was invited to suck at l!io
j sugar-canes that were growing
all around him outside, but he
said, “No Whito Australian.
1 sugar for me! X want that
! £357,000 import- duty, and X
must import to get it.”
“Come—do he reasonable,)’!
said the next lot. But he an- .
save red : “ Revcn—rev ”
Ho was getting too weak now
to say the whole of it. _.
By'this time ho had becohtc -quite celebrated,
\ and even the aoLmals fiata 9 to Shays si
him.
/ But at last inWcst died out, and \
no ona took any more notice ; and C
he just sat on there with tho wind
blowing through him—and is sitting'
yet.
THE STORY OF THE MAN WHO LIVED BY IMPORTS.
Britannia's Needs.
(For “The Bulletin.”)
Britannia needs no bulwarks— uo tars with
voices deep,
No hairy sons of sea-dogs to guard her
island-steep ;
Her trust is in the Lascar—the Dagoes
make her crew',
She leans her weary trident on her, .alien
A.B. true.
Britannia needs no Britons stout—she fills
hey slimy slum
With every, kind of wastrel cur that wolfs
a British crumb ;
Her yeomen wander over-sea to grow
Canadian corn,
And leave the peer and Polish Jew the land
where they were born.
Britannia needs no wheat-fields. Her beef
is raised afar,
Her mutton mostly grew beneath a far-off
southern star ;
Her lands are falling fallow —her hillsides
keep the deer —•
She loves the antlers passing well and hates
the grazing steer. *
Britannia needs a noddle that will show' the
need of men !
The need of keeping foreign trash within the
foreign den ;
She needs to base her Greatness on other
grounds than Greed,
And brag the less and do the more to save
, a falling breed.
Britannia needs a yeomanry of sturdy men
and hale
To take the place of city weeds who cough
at every gale;
She needs to place a firmer faith in manly
bosoms bpjdi .
And put no mori her single trust in ledger-
and golL
Britannia needs -to cleanse of cant- her
crusted British soul,
To give her poor an honest due and no dis-
honest dole,
To let the heathen bow content before his
wood, aud sj-oue, ..
Until Britannia’s island boast no heathen
of its own !
L.
White Australia.
A correspondent writes to “ The Bul-
letin ” from Melbourne:
“ As a regular attendant at church, I raise
my voice in protest against the persistent
championing of the cause of the nigger aifd
Chow by the brethren in broadcloth. Last
Sunday ih'e Rev. J. J. Watsford,. an unde-
niably clever man, but evidently , warped.in
the same direction as' most parso-n", held
forth, with emotion in his voice, on the fact
iliat “w° have drawn a rigid color-line, and
have said ‘because you are black or yellow, *
you shall not come in here.’ ” The amusing
feature of ibis case is, that for the whole of
the w»-ck following this outcry the papers
have bee.ii filled with accounts of the man-
rT -in which tli.o heathen have raged in
>b"t pest-house of Asiatic filth, Little
BoUrkc-street, besides sundry accounts of
the sanguinary performances of -some Hin-
dus. A period of enforced residence in
Lilly Buck-street might have a salutary
effect on such inigger-lovers.”
After all, however, the parson is more of a
foot than a knave on this .subject. He is
full of. a flabby kind of morality and is
shamefully and horribly ignorant of political
economy, a subject about'which even the
most dreadful pattor ought to know some-
thing. Some fact 3 in this connection which
the Democratic party should paste on every
church door are'these :. — - ,
(1) The.colored man, as a rule, is a cheap
worker.
(2) There is no mystery or gloom or dead
secret about the reason o-f his cheapness.
*He has no way of being cheap that isn't
known to the white worker. He is cheap
because he doesn't want ,books or news-
papers ; because he doesn’t mind whether
he is half-clothed, or less than half-clothed;
because lie doesn’t object to sleeping t&n
In a room (there have been 29 Asiatics found
sleeping in one room); because he doesn’t'
mind sleeping on the floor With his clothes
on ; because be doesn’t Want much in the
way of furniture or ornaments ; because (as
regards some varieties of him anyhow) lie
doesn’t mind having one wife to 15" male
heathens, and he thus saves the expense of a
family; because he economises on all the
decencies of life. Any man can be cheap
enough if he is beg enough. The evidence
lies in-the fact that in fverji city the niggeri
quarter is the dirtiest, and most crowded,
and most objectionable.
(3) In every industry which the nigger
enters in large numbers—and When the said
nigger i's allowed to pervade the country
freely he enters largely into many industries
-lie reduces wages, and the white man
must either come down to his wages or else
leave the industry. He can’t afford to
leave every industry'that 4TYri nigger erite'rs.
And he can only come down to the'nigger’s
level of cheapness by living as the nigger
does, sleeping a dozen in a room, with one
unsexed female derelict as the joint .pro-
perty of a dozen men. Being a white man
he objects to this kind of competition.
(4) Therefore the attempt to give free ac-
cess to all people Of all colors is a degrad-
ing conspiracy for the abolition of Chris-
tianity and civilization. And the parson,
to his shame and discredit, joins in
that conspiracy. The cheap nigger doesrit
come into competition with him, and doesn’t
drag him down, and he doesn’t seem to care
much who*else is.dragged down. The refuse
of Asia doesn’t, live, as a rule, in the street
that, he inhabits, and he doesn't care if the
mere working man has 1 to put «p with the
refuse's championship. Even when the par-
son goes away on tlie missionary business
he doesn't live close alongside his nigger if
he can help it. He is a most exclusive per-
son, who spends his time explaining what a
sin it is for the workman to be .exclusive
also.
Some such remarks as these ought to be
read every Sunday to every nigger-loving
parson in the land till he get 3 into a better
frame of mind. That kind of individual is
nothing short of an enemy of the human
race, and his grieved remarks about the
white worker’s objections to liis competitor’s
color are an insult to his-own intelligence.


The Clown and the Cashier.
“ The Right Hon. the Treasurer has
merely given us a good book-keeper’s view
of the state of the finances. lam bound to
express my profound disappointment with
it.”-—George Reid, in the Reps.
Poor Turner, on his office stool,
Insists that one and two make three ;
I laugh at such a stupid rule.
And scorn such drab monotony.
(I sometimes make the answer four,
And sometimes just a trifle more.)
Dull Turner, on his office stool,
Says _ one from two leaves always one.
Such nonsense let us ridicule,
Let’s make it more—it’s better fun.
(Or if you’d rather have it less
That can be managed, too, I guess.)
Grey Turner, on his office stool,
Says three times two are surely six.
That’s good enough perhaps for school,
But not for Dry-Dog politics.
(The answer’s either five or eight—
’Twould take too long to calculate.)
Drab Turner sits upon his stool,
And puts his figures through the mill;
I travel as the fakir who’ll
Make figures answer at his will.
(Heigh, Presto 1 Surpluses are here !
I make a pass—they disappear 1)
I pity Turner on his stool,
He has no soul, poor honest chap ; •
While I—l am the merry Fopl
Who Ravels wijth the bells and cap.
(Oh yes 1 Oh yes ! Roll up, walk in—•
Our Moral Show will now begin.)
S.H.P.
Daily Press Slanders.
“ THE LOW-DOWN AUSTRALIAN.”
It would be difficult to over-estimate the
damage done to the Australian people by
its bitterly unpatriotic daily press. The
press preaches, almost without exception,
and almost without ceasing, the doctrines
of dependence and servility and inept help-
lessness ; represents the Australian as a
poor creature incapable of any intelligent
organized effort, fit only to do the harsh,
menial work of some higher race, and to
live on the money he can borrow by plelg-
ing his soul to Coheii. Sydney “ Evening
News” had a characteristic picture sermon
on this text the other day—a cartoon sug-
gesting that if an Australian navy wive
created it would necessarily be run on
Owe’Sullivan lines, without discipline pad
without efficiency, and would go out to
meet the enemy with its Admiral horn-pip-
ing with an Irish sailor, and ".s crew at
cards and whisky. The, lesson sought to be
impressed was that the Austrann is such
a , low-down-in-the-anim d-scale crea ure
that he must necessarily rely on the be b. r
type of the Englishman to defend Pis coasts
—that if he were to attempt naval defence
on his own the effort would certainly be a
farce culminating in a disaster. It is be-
cause such a very large section of the Aus-
tralian press holds and promotes these
views—all the Freetrade --apers and some
of the allegedly Protetcionist ones' —that
the Australian is, to some extent, failing
away from his old standards of sturdiness
and courage. The persistent preaching of
lying pessimism has some effect, as the
people don’t fully recognize yet that their
freetrade daily papers after all represent
only the draper spirit of the community,
that they live on the drapers’ advertise-
ments, that their gods are the wholesale
ragmen of Flinders-lane and Clarence-
street, and that their ideas on national mat-
terk are the ideas of the shop-walker. If
it were a fact that the average Australian
is such a miserable creature that he hasn't
the enterprise to till his Own land, and
carry on his own manufactures, and defend
his own home, and pay his way out of his
own revenue, the call would be clear to
every man fortunate enough to live among
.such a mob to pack his trunk and seek some
land with a destiny and a prospect of na-
tional existence. But emphatically it is not
a fact. It is a misapprehension of the
cowardly draper’s soul, a. wrong conclu-
sion of the man with the cheating yard-
, wand (which is the sceptre of the Free-
trade newspaper world). Australia, as was
shown in tho past, before the day 3 of the
borrowing disease and the centralising
disease and the importers’ newspaper
disease, showed spirit enough and promise
enough of greatness. It has been handi-
capped seriously by the piling up of a huge
debt—as part of the interest on which the
country is expected to sacrifice to some ex-
tent 'its national ideals ; and by the helpless
hopeless maunderings of draper newspapers
and K.C.M.G. politicians. Probably Aus-
tralia will not be able to make any real
progress on the path to nationhood until
the habit of mortgaging everything is cured,
and the growth of manufactures makes the
nation self-supporting and self-contained,
and the process of de-centralisation kills
the political power of the drapery organs.
But all these things are possible. Tho Aus-
tralian Government has borrowed nothing
as yet ; Australia has actually one Govern-
ment that has existed a year or two without
floating a loan. The Australian tariff —in-
adequate though it is—is doing something
to stimulate manufactures. The Australian
Parliament is more free from the domina-
tion of the cheating yard-wand press than
any’ legislative body has been on this conti-
net for a quarter of a century. Further,
the , early records of Australia forbid the
idea that we are doomed to become a people
of shop-walkers and poor-spirited agri-
cultural serfs. It was not for that end
that the goldfields attracted to these shores,
undefiled by any traditions of human
slavery, some of the freest and most enter-
prising spirits of Europe and America.
Australia can be a nation, and will he, in
spite of its newspapers.
“Favorable” Wage Conditions.
Local manufacturers, in order to
secure the benefits of supplying pub-
lic works with cement, have been com-
pelled to pay a minimum wage of 7s.
per day of eight hours, ... It is
estimated that the cost 'of producing
local cement is just double that manu-
factured in Europe, where, taking f.o.b.
price at 4s. Bd., less Is, per cask, only
3s. Bd. remains for freight to shipping
ports and cost of manufacture. This
at least shows what favorable condi-
tions must prevail in Europe as com-
pared with this country.—•“ Sydney
D.T.,” Sept, 4.
The workers are occasionally given a peep
into a real Freetrade position by the Free-
trade newspapers. This is one of the oc-
casions. “ The Telegraph ” contrasts the
unfavorable conditions in Australia (where
the laborer must be paid 7s. a day for an
arduous, unwholesome, dusty task, with
the “favorable conditions” of Europe,
where the laborer gets £1 a week or less.
The price of cement mostly represents la-
bor. The raw material is plentiful, and
very easily obtainable; it is labor makes
it of value. So, if German or British labor
is obtainable at less than half the cost of
Australian, naturally the German or British
cement is produced at about half the cost
of the Australian article. If, then, Aus-
tralia wishes to produce cement, it must
either come down to the “ favorable ” wage
conditions of Europe, and reduce the la-
borers to 3s. a day, or impose Protective
duties. That is the alternative in so many
other industries that “ The Bulletin ” can
never begin to understand whv an Austra-
lian Labor Party can be ar.vthing hut a high
tariff party.
Reid and His Contempt.
George Reid, in his speech at the opening
of the Imported Shoddy campaign:
“ There is another tiling to which I want
to refer— the Immigration Restriction Act.
I canont sufficiently express my contempt
for the lines on which that Bill was dr.'.wn.
The Act says that any person arriving in. a
ship at any Australian port depends tor his
admission on a possible ordeal, that a Cus-
toms officer may come up to him, and if he
is a Yorkshireman. ask him to write from
dictation fifty words in. French or German
—or if He is a German fifty
words from dictation in French or English ;
or if he is an Italian fifty words in Russian.
(Renewed laughter.)”
Extract from Coghlan’s “Wealth and
Progress of New South Wales” for 1900-01,
page 955 (words in brackets are “ The Bul-
letin’s” comments :
In 1896 (when George Reid was Premier)
the question of the intlux of the alien races
was deemed by Parliament to be suffici-
ently grave to justify it in extending the
provisions of the Chinese Restriction and
Regulation Act of 1888 so as to exclude
from the State the colored races of Asia
and Africa and the colored inhabitants of
the islands in the Pacific and in min
Oceans. An important feature of the Bill
was that it proposed to restrict the immi-
gration of persons ooloiiging to the inferior
races, whether they "eve or were not Bri-
tish subjects by nut 6 and tho existing Act
was so amended that Chinese born in Bri-
tish territory were sliut_out from’free entry
into the Stale. ■ ■ This measure, which
was termed the Co ored Races Restriction
and Regulation Act. tn„6, was reserved for
the assent of the Queen, which was with-
held. . • The Ininngration Restriction
Act of 1898 was accordingly passed (being
drafted and introduced by the Reid Go-
vernment, and passed by the Reid ma-
jority), and was assented to on the .3rd Aug.
of that year. Ibis Act, which came into
force three months after the Royal assent
was proclaimed, prohibits the immigration
into New South Wales of any person who,
when asked to dp bo by a properly-appointed
officer, should fail to write out in some
European language, and sign an application
to the Colonial Secretary in a specified
form.”
George Reid looks at his own idea adopted
by the Australian Government, and “ can-
not sufficiently express his contempt.” If
hq means that" he cannot sufficiently ex-
press his contempt for himself a good many
people will agree with him.
“The Australian Leather Journal” gives
some further facts about the ruin which is
coming over N.S.W. because of Federation
and Protection: —-
“During the quarter" ended Sept. 30 of
this year the shoe imports into N.S.W.
were only £58,836, as compared with
£85,035 for the corresponding quarter of
1901, whilst the exports for 1902 were
£18,44.5, as against £10,354 for the same
period in 1901. There is thus a decrease in
imports for the quarter of £26,199, and an
increase in exports of £BO9l. These
figures, which are supplied bv the N.S.W.
Customs authorities, and are therefore cor-
rect, would seem to indicate that N.S.W.
has succeeded in manufacturing £34,29p
more footwear in one quarter this year than
in 1901. showing an average increase af
£137,160 annually.”
In other words, £137,160 more money
available for wages in one industry alone ;
£137,160 more to be spent in the shops of
local tradespeople ; and £137,160 less going
out of the country. And Sydney “ Evening
News ” last week urged the people of
N.S.W. to arise in their might at next elec-
tion and put an end to all this.
The nation without puddling furnaces
will always be a pauper dependent on some"
iron-making country.
D * * *
The Boy of the Bulldog Breed, as shown
by recent statistics of how British mercan-
tile ships arc manned: — r
Total British Total niggers- 1
sailors, and foreigners.
1891 145,140 ... 45,464’,
1896 143,836 ... 55,666 ■
1901 139,286 68,852 :
The Freetrade bulldog appears to be
diminishing pretty fast at present.
* * *
From the Canadian correspondent of
London “Daily Chronicle”:
“The country's prosperity and an unpre-
cedented surplus in the public finances will
serve to help the Government, while an ap-
peal to the people now will postpone a de-
cision on the fiscal issue until after the an-'
ticipated British elections, and prevent the
growing Protectionist sentiment in this
country from becoming uncontrollable.”
Canada has a tariff on an average three
times as high as that of Australia, and, yet
the Government has to manouevre to keep
under the “ growing Protectionist senti-
ment” !
A MEETING.
1st.-The white C.H. Bail with dogw[?] government demanded that the Australian mail boats should have white stokers exclusively, and who adopted
the educational test [?] in [?] by the Australia Government for the exclusion of colored immigrants from N.S.W. (This gentleman is temporarily dead.)
2nd—The Black Reid (with dog). nowdeslare that the exclusion of colored labor from the stokeholes of Australian mail boats is an outrage.
3rd.-The Yellow Reid (with dog). who now alleges that to keep out colored aliens by an educational test is a public disgrace.
Varlous other colored Reids (with dugs) may arrive at any moment.
Fanning the Flame!
(For “The Bulletin.”)
(“ Blessed are the penny-piece-makers.'”)
“I suppose,’ said William Scroggins, “it’s
the daily .paper’s game
To be fannuto everlastingly the old sectarian
flame?
I suppose it riles one party, while it makes
the other grin,
And it helps to sell the paper, and it brings
the pennies in?”
“That’s their game,” said Jim McNulty,
“ that is why “ The Telegraph ”
To. a small sectarian squabble gives three
columns and a-half,
As to whether Cardinal Moran will en-
deavor to deny
That some yarn of Rev. Howler’s is a
thumping Saxon lie.” ,
“If the Cardinal,” said William, “ told a
monumental cram.
’Bout the British in Samoa, do we care a
tinker’s d—— ?’
Or if Reverend Howler really told a thump-
ing Saxon lie, i
What the dickens, Jim McNulty, does it
trouble you or I?”
Not a, bit,’ said Jim McNulty, “but those
editors know how
There is nothing .sells the papers like a big
sectarian row,
And the savager they make it, and the
fiercer it, is fought,
Wh .v. the bigger the sensation, and the more
the paper’s bought!”
“As to .whether Reverend Howler or the
Cardinal is tight
Doesn t make a bit of difference, all the
papers want is fight!”
T-hats the way it looks,” said Scroggins;
" s precisely what it means ;
Stir the boiling pot, the papers meanwhile
rakin’ in the beans.
Course tho Cardinal and Macky won’t bo
likely to agree,
But what odds their barneys to the
likes of you ancl me?
It’s the mutton-headed public that is
properly to blame
For encouragin’ the papers what is livin’
on the game 1”
W. T. GOODGE.
When the Iron Bonus Bill was before the
Commonwealth Parliament it was argued
by the Importing Gang that our population
was so small it would mean giving a mono-
poly to one concern, which would be in a
position to supply the whole of Australia,
and then lie -idle part of the year. The
Foreign-Trade Gang should look at Canada,
which, with about a million or so more
population, has no-w IN huge iron and steel
mills going, and is adding to the number.
* * *
Almost every week there is <d V en a
warning ihat Australhi must shortly pay
for her borrowing policy in principles as
well as in interest. Hint? from the Lon-
don Cohens as to what legislation will
please them and what will not are now
constantly given—and frequently taken.
They can’t but be taken whilst Australia
continues the policy of borrowing. If it
were to determine to stop borrowing abso-
lutely now for good, there world be no
need to worry about Cohen’s views when
renewal loans have to be floated. If
Cohen didn't wish to renew the old loans
on fair terms, the State could simply 'set
forth its terms and explain that the loin
was renewed on these terms. There would
be no possible alternative to acceptance.'
But whilst the various Governments wish]
not only to renew old loans, hut to con-
stantly float new ones, it j s necessary to be
servile to Cohen, and that gentleman
knows it, and is beginning f n exercise ],j s
power,
Freetrade Involves Sweating.
McMillan made one candid confession
during his speech on the Arbitration Bill
in the House of Representatives :
This class of legislation was no doubt
the corollary of Protection. It was not
the corollary of Freetrade, aiuj, there-
fore, lie was only consistent in oppos-
ing it.
True, down to the ground. 'Freetrade
means the right to buy in the cheapest
market, no matter where, and to get the
benefit of the cheapest labor, no matter
what. Under that system t-here might b%
a pretence of arbitration, but it could never
be more than a pretence ; for if it raised
wages, and therefore for a time the cost of
production, the goods would be supplied
by some cheap foreigner who has no arbi-
tration courts. An Arbitration Court can
only fix wages ; it can’t- keep the work in
the country. At any rate, it can’t keep the
work in the country except by fixing the
rates of pa f, etc., very low. If it wants to
fix high rates of pay, then, unless it wants
to risk driving the work out of the country,
it must be backed up by Protection. Two
things the working man expects, and the
country generally wants—work to do and
decent pay for doing it. Neither arbitra-
tion nor (within certain limits) Protection
alone can give both; but, dovetailed to-
gether, they fill the bill. Indeed, arbitra-
tion without- Protection may be worse that,
nothing. Without it local people may get
the work to do at some price ; with it they
may not he able to get it at all. The Free-
trader who worries about arbitration is,
therefore, as McMillan suggests, wasting
time. But that isn’t, as McMillan thinks,
an argument against arbitration. It is
simply an argument against being a Free-
trader. The doctor who tells you ihat bis
medicine won’t do you any good while you
remain drunk isn’t arguing again-t ibp
medicine ; he is simply , vguing against the
drunkenness.
Ah John’s Joss.
(For “The Bulletin.”)
There’s Hades in the Joss-house of the
fiscal pagan Bull,
He’s damning of his idol’s eyes and bump-
ing of its skull, m
He’s tearing off its tinsel, he is jumping on
its chest,
The gaudy deity is being knocked around
with zest
No roast pig decks the altar now, of rice
there’s awful loss,
Since John found out the hollowness of his
Importing Joss.
The neighbors all in chorus are a-yelling
out “Oh lor’ !”
As John berates his deity with many a
fierce “Whaffor?”
It was a good fair-weather Joss, but failed
in time of stress,
And now it’s getting curses from tile man
who used to bless.
He’s -seized his ancient Cobden Club o’er-
grown with fiscal moss,
And with it he is fiercely knocking sauce-
pans out of Joss.
Ah John beings to think his Joss a hollow
jest,
He found it, only middling, and Brum-
magem at best;
We’ve seen him grovel to it as we passed
the Open Door,
And now we hear him smiting hard its head
upon the floor ;
Its ears are, flying endways and its skiill is
cracked across
And Lord knows where the nose is of the
damaged Fre,etrade Joss.
C.H.
Interesting to note how Australian,nolities
are shaping on. American lines. In. -the.
U.S.A. the “ Free-trade ” party was always
the nigger-labor, slave-owning party, and it
shows the same tendency here.
Personal Points.
Judging by some of the men who are run-
ning tiie sectarian ticket with a view to the
Federal elections, it seems that religion is
now.;the last refuge of scoundrels.
* *
■l’t is truly wonderful what a number of
representatives of British and foreign
Shipping interests have stated, in one set
,df words or another, that they are sorry,
from purely unselfish motives, to hear of
the proposed Australian navigation law, by
which the coastal trade is to be reserved for
Australian-owned vessels or vessels paying
Australian rates of wages. They .all say the
■suggested innovation won’t injure them
in the least, and they only object because
it will bo so very bad for Australia. People
-of such a noble disposition are lost in the
-sordid shipping biz. A light, comfortable
billet as■ cherubim is about their size.
* -J| -x-
Mr, Spruce Myth seems to. think ihat
.Women will swallow any amount of
ponderous insanity. Slab from a leant
lecuiye of his:--
“ Women must learn to disconnect the
■ lieiart from the head in creating send en-
forcing legal rights and facilities by Act
of Parliament. The heart and the emo-
tions were designed for higher and robler
work, and ought not to be dragged into the
political mire.”
There is surely nothing more Import mt in
civic life than the) exercise of the fran-
chise, and why should the “irgh” and
“ noble'’ 1 ’ capacities be kept •.‘tit of that
work? And why should Mr, Spruce Myth
refer, to the field out of which he gets his
livipg as the “political mire”?
•* * *
a\, “The Bulletin’s” old friend, the man who
has £31)0,000 to invest, but who, hav-
ing made inquiries, has decided not to in-
vest it here on account of the socialistic
labor legislation, turned up in the Queons-
■ land papers lately ; and when it was pointed
out that neither Philp, nor weary old Nel-
son, nor Griffith, nor Mcllwraith, nor any
Queensland Premier who had ever done
anything, was a Socialist or a Labor man,
the papers said that it was the dread of
future Labor legislation that the capitalist
had in his mind. Being further; pressed on
the .question* the .papers next admitted that
the capitalist hadn't actually turned up him-
self —it was somebody who s,ai'd he repre-
sented the capitalist, and who called at the
Lands Office. Which reminds “The Bul-
letin ” to mention that King Edward VII.
called upon it a few days back. He smelt
badly of stale beer, and said he was consi-
■ ■dering. whether he would let this paper
continue publication or not. On reflection
he decided that he would try it a little
longer if it would buy him liquor. Then
“The Bulletin ” gave him sixpence, and
.solemnly warned him of the evils of strong
■drink ; whereupon his Majesty winked, and
went.- Possibly the Brisbane capitalist was
one hunting for a drink, too; and it was
so like the “Courier” to give him a smug
paragraph instead.
* * *
. Qhamberlain to the British House of
Commons:
When I am told that our prosperity is
bound up with free imports, I ask, in the
first place : What is our prosperity? Is it
' a fact, as we are told on the high authority
of Sir : Henry Campbell-Bannerman, that
twelve millions of our people—more than a
fourth . of the whole population—are always
on the verge of starvation? Is that a proof
of the : blessings of free-trade? Is it true
that many once profitable industries have
disappeared, that the whole of the capital
invested in them has been lost, and that
the work-people employed in them have
either gone to Sir Henry Campbell-Banner-
man's ..twelve millions or else have been
forced to emigrate where they are now
finding employment- in competition with
the comrades whom they have left at home?
I ask,, in the third place, is it., or is it not,
a fact that our greatest and oldest indus-
tries —I would especially name the iron
trade and the textile . industries^ —are
threatened as they never have been before ;
that they might at any moment bo over-
whelmed ;by a. great importation of goods
manufactured abroad,, sold here below cost,
. the product, mind you, of protected States?
* * *
The ineffable impudence of Yes-No-Reid 1
Part of his campaign speeches have been
taken up with an attack on the Federal
Government for its “delay and hesitancy”
. in sending a Commonweaith Contingent to
S’Africa. But the one bright spot in
, Reid’s, career—the one occasion on which
lie showed a real sagacity and a faculty of
seeing further ahead than the miserable
little advantage of the moment—was when
he more than delayed and hesitated, posi-
tively refused, as N.S.W. State Premier, to
send troops to harry the Boers. The war
had just' broken out, and half-a-dozen
screaming PreiSiers —Kingston, sad to say,
aniol );g them —wished to despatch conting-
ents anjif warships and kerosene and other
munitions of war. They ur§ed Reid, as
Premier of the most populous State, to offer
a, contingent, but urged in vain. He
minuted on one of their frenzied tele-
grams— '
Put by for the present. I have come
to the opinion that the sympathy of the
1 .Australian colonies with the, legitimate
.!- desires, of the British inhabitants of
like Transvaal has already been made
: ■ sufficiently manifest. A difference be-
- .tween the British people and the people
of tiie Transvaal scarcely calls for dis-
■ plays of patriotism at this end of the
world—the strength of the position
being all on the side of Great Britain.
Very shortly afterwards Reid went back on
that manly and sagacious statement, and
lie feebly explained that he was all the
1 while nourishing a great thirst, for Boer
gore, but refused to offer a contingent “for
fear of irritating the Boers 1” Now’he has
tiie unspeakable gall to pose as a frantic
Jingo hurt to the heart by the fact that
Barton didn’t rush with enough haste to
embriie his hands in Boer blood.
GEORGE HE ID PREPARES FOR AN
ELECTORAL CAMPAIGN.
A, Sydney firm of universal providers re-
cently' gave a big shirt order to a Brisbane
sweating, factory. The firm has factories
of its awn, and, no doubt, the contract was
sent to Brisbane to dodge the effects of
N.S.W. Labor legislation. If the Labor
Parties of all. the States do .not plump for
Federal control of industrial laws, they will
rlind,,the high-wage States in time boy-
cotted by the capitalists.


VOTE FOR
(“JDAD/S PAYBACK ')
FOR THE SENATE.
Honest Finance and No Increase in
the Public Debt.
VOTING PAPER.
As to what shall he the number of Members of the
Legislative Assembly.
Which of the following- numbers do 1 you prefer, mid
what is the order of your preference ?
HECTOR LAMOND,
President of the Political Labor League
Ajjvt.] of New South \Yales.
A Hymn Before Battle.
OR THE MACKIES AND THE
MICKIES.
(For “The Bulletin.”)
(The Protestant Defence Association and
the Loyal Orange Lodge have joined forces
for the nurpose of so running the next
N.S.W. general election as tp return only
Protestant candidates. Dill Macky declares
that among the chief objects of the cam-
paign are the establishment of, Protestant
ecclesiastical precedence, .and resistance
against the introduction of the Continental
Sabbath.)
Hurro! a row worth living for,
With many a dinted skull and black eye—
The dogs and Pup of holy war
Are sooled on by Chief-Trainer Macky ;
They’ll chew each other in the streets
Arid make Religion brisk and merry
The day the Sligo Christian meets
The Christian who was grown in Derry.
We’ll hear the solid Galway brogue
Uplifted in the general tantruiri,
And mark the well-designed polthogue
That “marks ” the Protestant from An-
trim ;
We’ll whoop to see the Orange boys,
Who ask no quarter, fear no foeman,
Show they’re alive and make a noise,
And seek and stretch, the fighting
Roman !
Ah ! God be with the good old days
When every creed fominst its rival
Flourished a blackthorn, and all praise
To Dill for working this revival;
Now each will strive its soul to save
By leathering the other’s body—
No blackthorn here? But Heaven gave
The springy eucalyptus waddy!
We want a fight for fighting sake.
Our politics are enervating,
So we'll go out to give or take
The father of a wholesome “bating”;
We’ll swear the worst of everything
That-ever yet pot said'of kettle ;
Dill Macky bids us have our fling,
Owe’Sullivan finds cheap blue-metal!
We’ve gone astray, in point of fact,
Our minds have followed many a vain
a. thing,
Some voters speak and think and act -
As though their tucker were the main
thing ;
They’ve been misled by pros and cons
Of questions based on wants material —
This one’s Australian, t’other one’s ■
Inclined to favor schemes Imperial.
One thinks Protection would be good,
Another is a strong Freetrader ;
They preach of such things when they
should
Take arms against the fell Invader;
They prate, while Rome comes silently,
Ready to do all jhings and risk all
To bind in Error’s chains the free—
Rome, still “ more Popery than fiscal ” ;
Some have been far too much intent
To stop wild borrowing and spending
Instead of downing Romish Lent,
Have tried to stiffen British lending ;
Some recked not, blindly covetous
Of Edward's current golden image,
That Rome, of saints idolatrous,
Was forcing on the coming scrimmage ;
We’ve sinned in fruit-shops, knowing well
That Romish fripperies and follies
Abhorrent to the L.O.L.
Attend our children’s Sunday lollies ;
We’ve wrongly bought the pear and plum,
Since part of every coin we pay goes
To swell the Peter’s Pence that come
To Rome- from exile Papist DagoeS.'
We’ll change all that —we will! we will!-
With anger great and elemental,
Led forward by our glorious Dill,
We’ll smite the Sabbath Continental!—
A palsy seize the man who might
Be with us in this mighty war, if
He turns his hand to’meaner fight
For food, or home, or tax, or tariff!
Our Christian duty comes before
All Customs duties; to remit it
Is treachery. We’re out for gore
And if we see a head we’ll hit it.
The hour has struck; ring out the call
And let the word be “ No surrender ” —-
Let us go tearing, one and all,
Upon a wild sectarian bender !
What if the Naval Tribute Bill
Gives democratic Tule to slaughter,
When even out at Broken Hill
There’s full supply of holy water?
It matters not ; we must inquire
Where we are drifting, where we’ll all get
If Rome prevails at Nevertire,
And Mariolatry at Walgett.
How can we ever hope to build
A State, who seek to build a Nation,
Until we’ve grappled with and killed
The demon Transubstantiation?
Remember Aughrim, P.D.A.,
, \ Go y on the warpath gladly, gajljr.
And if a Papist blocks the way
Apply your new blue-gum, shillelagh !
fi Gn for them, Pat; you’ve not forgot
The way to run a controversy
About Religion; make it hot,
And stretch the spalpeens without
mercy—
Go in both sides, with nail And tooth
And hands and feet and blood and fury!
Go at it, black coats from Mavnooth !
Go at it, yellow coats from Newry!
WOLLONDALE.
Every person entitled to : vote for a State
House of Parliament is also entitled to vote
for the Federal elections.
* * *
The Radical and Protectionist ticket for
the Senate : Arthur Griffith, J. T. Cuneen,
and N. T. Collins. Vote against Pulsford,
Neild, and Gray, the foreign-trade, “ black
Australian” Reidite candidates.
* * *
“ Monowai ” : The beauty o{ your really
honest Freetrader is that he,may always he
trusted to give way his own case. Tims,
e.g., Gorst in “North American Review”:
The condition of disease, debility, and
defective sight and hearing in the pub-
lic elementary schools in poorer dis-
tricts (i.e., of Britain) is appalling. The
research of a recent Royal Commission
has disclosed that, of the children ii
the public schools of Edinburgh, 70 per
cent, are suffering from disease of some
kind, more than half from defective
vision, nearly half from defective hear-
ing, and 30 per cent, from starvation.
. . $ There are grounds for at least
suspecting a growing degeneracy of Lie
population of the United Kingdom, par-
ticularly in . the great towns.
Exactly. This is how things are after 50
years of Freetrade. Is it not sufficient to
make anyone not blinded by tlie dust of
rotten theories see that it is a fair thing to
give the rival policy a chance? Gorst
argues that Protection must increase the
cost of living to.the English poor. Kidd,
in a recent “ Nineteenth Century ” article,
shows that that result need not follow,
pqinting out that the lately abolished Ct in
Duties in England, did not raise the price
of bread, but that meanwhile unfettered
foreign competition had allowed American
trusts to double the London price of meat.
But. even if Protection did slightly raise the
price of food, will not Gorst cap his honest
admissions by admitting the strong pro-
bability that wages would rise, ton?
The ’Derry Party.
That very inefficient politician, Wilks o'f
N.S.W,;'. enjoys the disgrace of . being the
'first Federal, candidate to coma opt definitely
in the present electoral, campaign on the
dirty sectarian issue. At a recent public
howl in Balmain, W-ilks is reported to hTive
announced himself as “a bigot Mid a, fire-
brand,” and declared that he was proud* of
the titles. Also he claimed political- sup-
port on the ground that he was a Protestant,
and urged Lie people to return none but
.Protestant candidates at the forthcoming
election. Yet with all his frenzied cries
about the walls of ’Derry and other dead
and gone rocks, he quite omitted to explain
himself on any important point,or to come
down from the clouds and get to particulars.
Wherefore the following questions are asked,
and if Wilks, will supply definite answers to
them a great many things will be cleared
up
How does Wilks reckon that his demand
that all Catholics should be shut out- of the
new Australian Parliament accords with his
blather about civil and religious liberty?.
What, exactly,. , does Wilks reckon will
happen if some Catholics, get into the Aus-
tralian Parliament? So far there'is only
talk about the R.C. desire to do something
to the Education. Act; but as the Australian
Parliament has nothing to do with the Edu-
cation Act that excuse doesn’t hold water.
What, exactly,.,-does Wilks reckon will
happen if none/save Protestants get into the
, Australian Parliament? - (This question to
he answered without, any loose irrelevftncies
about tlie walls of ’Derry or Bagdad or
Limerick* or any other disconnected
boulders.)
What are-Wilks’ *•.•*><?;; about the nefarious
partially-Fl’Secrade policy under which Aus-
tralia buys about £3,000,000 Worth annually
from purely Roman Catholic countries, in-
stead of having the gopds made here by
Protestant Australian WBrkihefl?
Will Wilks vote for a specially heavy tariff
on goods made in Roman Catholic countries ?
Is Wilks prepared to vote that Roman
Catholics should be deprived of the fran-
chise and shut out from Parliament?
Is Wilks prepared to exclude Roman Ca-
thphi?,3 fi-'om the Civil Service?
Is Wilks prepared to do anything ii'.at will
make the slightest difference—in other
words, what legislation will the people get if
they elect Bill Wilks that they wouldn’t get
if they elected Patrick Hooka? (Ip answer-
ing this question please leave out the walls
of ’Derry and come down.to particulars.)
In other words, what is the exact nature
of the lift ■ that Protestantism will get. if
Wilks and his sectarian friends are elected?
Will they spend the public money to endow
Protestant, churches and schools, or give
Archbishop Smith charge of education mat-
ters, or do anything of a definite character,
or Will they merely talk about the walls of
’Derry.
What is the exact nature of the present
alleged Roman Catholic conspiracy? Do
the R.C.’s propose to disfranchise Protest-
ants, or-shut them out of Parliament;, or Out
O; the. public service, or. to make Cardinal
Moran lisi! ( |,.i.f • tramways, or to do any-
tangible 1 Tim Walts of ’Berry will
please be kept out of the answer if possible.
Are Wilks and his friends aware that
** in Australia?
tire fact that he is » Protestant the only
qualification that Wilks lias as a politician
that, he puts p se conspicuously forward?
B SO, what good mil his Protestantism do to
the community, and how far will it heip to
supply work and victuals? The pijople can’t
eat the walls of ’Derry.
If Wilks gets in oh the walls of ’Derry
ticket, what is he »oing 1° do about finance,
tariffs, Old are oaisiw-s, Federal land, in-
come and absentee taxes, or federalisation
•of. the debts and railways? How- far will
the walls of ’Derrv help to clear up these
matter!'?
< When was the last Protestant burned in
Sydney, and did he crackle much?
These tho ugh addressed specially
to Dill Wilks,, are also addressed to every
other politician who runs on the sectarian
ticket. A definite answer will be gladly ac-
cepted from any one of the crowd—and pub-
lished. Australia wants to know the exact
nature of the R.C. danger/the exact nature
of the steps which the Great Deliverer, Bill
Wilks, and his friends are going to tak« to
avert the danger, the exact amount of'extra
Protestantism it will get if it elects Wilks,
and the exact anjount of Roman Catholicism
it will get. if.j t doesn’t .elect Wilks. It
wants.'to know something tangible. It wdrits
decimals not ’Derry. >.
NO PROTESTANTISM IN BUSINESS.
SPOKESMAN : “We are all Protestant workmen, sir; mostly [?]ronfounders and such like : and seeing that you were a cordial supporter of the
Protestant Defence Association, and were in the iron trade, we thought you might get us some work.
PROTESTANT DEFENCE MAN : “Well, I can’t. I import most of my iron work from the llomisli idolaters in Belgium, and when we get the
tariff abolished, I'll get still more from them. Besides, I'm arranging a large contract with some cheap Papists in Bohemia. You’ll
have to get stone-breaking to do.”
N.S.W.’s Influx of Population.
The fashion in which a section of the
Australian press invents a great- national
calamity when a great national calamity
is required to uphold its particular views
or to grind its particular axe, is so mag-
nificent in its impudence as almost to com-
mand admiration. The daily press travels
on the popular ignorance and on tlie fact
that 99 per cent, of the people never think
much nor investigate at all for themselves,
but take for granted the thing they have
read somewhere,- if only they have read it
somewhere' with sufficient frequency and
heard it somewhere with sufficient loud-
ness. Lately, it occurred to the Sydney
Foreign Importers’ Press that it would be
a good thing to invent a great and disas-
trous exodus of population from New
South Wales, as the natural and inevitable
result of Federation and of even the small
measure of protection that the State now
enjoys, and to show that no such disaster
was ever heard of in the good old days of
Separatism usd Slioddy\ So it just in-
vented the exodus (there was a real enough
outflow of people as regards some States,
but it. was necessary to invent one for
N.S.\Y. to show the grief that fell on the
land as soon as McMillan's calico was dis-
couraged). Straightway there”' appeared
announcements— so confident and circum-
stantial that they took in even intelligent
people—about the- general and unanimous
streaking away of N.S.W.’s population lo
better lands where tlie blare and curse of
State Socialism and Protection were not.
The Sydney “Telegraph” struck the top'
note with the following announcement,
which only a very unscrupulous rag or a
miserably mismanaged and misconducted
one could be guilty of:
Never before in the history of New-
South Wales has the emigration ex-
ceeded the influx of people.
That is the imaginary fact, mentioned to
lend weight to the imaginary calamity that
was mentioned to show how disastrous it
was to discourage McMillan’s imported
calico. Yet the real facts’as regards past
years are accessible to everybody who cares
to consult Coghlan’s official statistics, and
Coghlan’fc works are cheap enough to be
within the reach of most citizens;
X. S.W.’s N.S.W.’s
loss by excess gain by excess
of departures. of arrivals.
1893 1560 ...
1894 -- ... 919
1895 840
1896 3667
1897 173
1898 ... 1789
1899 - ... 360
1900 1518
1901 6744 ... _
1606 ... 4561
1903 (Jvf. to June) ... 3170
A great deal might be said about the pos-
sible share that the loan disease has in
causing the present influx of population
into N.S.W,, but it isn't the cause, only
the fact itself, that is at present under con-
sideration. The fac-t is that in six out of
the last nine years of the parochial system
N.S.W. lost population; that in four out
of the six years which constituted the Reid
Importers’'tariff period N.S.W. was re-
garded as a good place to get out of; and
that it was only With the advent of Federa-
ion and at least partial Protection that the
flight was stayed. And the Sydney " Tele-
graph ” joyfully invents an exodus —al-
legedly the first opt the State's record—just
when the exodus which had been going on
for years unddr " The Telegraph’s ” pet
policy had been stopped ; and “ The Even-
ing Noose” has a frantic leading article
about the flight and sets it down to
‘'socialistic legislation”; and. Chambers of
Commerce and such-like buzzing aggrega-
tions have wept bitterly about the imaginary
calamity which they set down to the Labor
Party, and have utterly destroyed each
other’s shirt-fronts with their tears. And
all the time, so far as N.S.W. is concerned,
it was all a lie - just a common tin lie at two
a penny, with a reduction on taking a
quantity.
Don’t plump for the Senate. You must
vote for three candidates or your vote will
he invalid.
* x- *
Henry Fletcher is standing for the Senate
on the honesty in finance issue. He de-
serves a vote on that-point, and should get
one from those not pledged to Griffith and
the two Protectionist candidates,
There is no better chance of voting down
sectarianism than in Lang by solidly .sup-
porting .Res: by.
"* * *
Chamberlain pushed home some un-
answerable arguments for Protection in his
address to tlie Liverpool workers:
Cobden declared that trades unions were
based on brutal tyranny and monopoly.
From bis standpoint of right it was impost
sible to reconcile Freetrade and unionism.
The Factory, Mines, and Truck .nets,
compensation for workmen, fair wages, and
the clause relating to the prohibition of
prison-made goods, are ail opposed to the
doctrine of Freetrade, which is against in-
terference with indivdual freedom.
What is the use. of prohibitng sweating in
England, if you allow sweated goods to enter
the country?
Unless manufacturers are' given a com-
pensating advantage, they will not be able
to compete and you are workless.
The “Telegraph’s Lie”
Sydney “ Telegraph,” in its leading article
of September 9, resurrected an old lie that
it hadn’t been using for some time. For
many years the " Telegraph ” used to
periodically draw comparisons in the Im-
ported Calico interest between N.S.W. and
Victoria. It .always started) with the lie
that N.S.W. was a Fretrade State, which it
never Was ; the “ Telegraph ” itself used to
enjoy 50 per cent. Protection. Then it
pointed out 'by inference that unless Vic-
toria, with only a quarter of N.S.W.’s
area, had more people, more live stock,
more agriculture, and more manufactures
than N.S.W., Protection was utterly
dflmned. Then it lied promiscuously. It
was quite refreshing apd suggestive of the
“ Telegraph’s ” best Ananias days when
these figures turned up in its leader of Sep-
tember 9 :
1890-1. 1600.
Victoria—Employees ... 56,369 ... 64,207
N.S.W. ... ' 47,958 ... 66,135
As a matter of fact, little Victoria was nearly
4000 employees ahead of N.S.W. in 1900 —
the figures are faked by comparing Victoria
in 1900 with N.S.W. in 1901, when, under
Kingston’s Protective tariff, it had made an
advance of 6000 employees in one year.
This good old “ Telegraph” lie has had such
a long rest that its re-appearance seems like
the return of an old friend. The “Tele-
graph,” by the way, has the unspeakable
assurance to quote Goghlan as its authority,
-which - is something extra, even for that-
paper.
The Judgment of December 16th
An Appeal ip Hi? Democracy of N.S. Wales.
On December 16tb the people of N.S. 'Vales
will be summoned to the poll to vote on the ques-
tion of Reduction of Members. It is due to the
democratic spirit of the members of the Legis-
lative Assembly that the right of dealing with
the People’s Parliament ha* been preserved to the
people. This is the logic of democratic prin-
ciples. No power not the Democracy has the
rigl.t to shed a single drop of Democracy’s
blood ; bnt Democracy can eut its own throat if
it pleases.
Freedom tree to slay herself, and dying while they
shout her name.
Wherever a blade has been buried in the side of
Liberty the liaft has borne a motto extolling some
virtue." This time, it is sought to knife Freedom
in the sacred name of “ Economy.'
If the electors vote to reduce the numbers of the
Assembly to 90, the saving will not be equivalent
to the value of a twopenny postage stamp per head
of the population per year. . But the “Reformers ’
say, although the direct saving will be incon-
ceivably contemptible, the “consequent sayings
will be important and material. What are the
consequent savings contemplated? They ate,
in part, illustrated by the march of events in Vic-
toria. “ Consequent savings ’’ are the savings in
the service of the State. The axe suspended by
the “Reformers” over the Assembly menaces
every civil servant, every railway and tramway
employee, every trades-unionist, even every
laborer in the service of the State. This is not
specifically admitted, but it is net specifically
denied. Expenditure, we are told, must be cut
down, and the raid on the living-wage made by
Irvine in Victoria is the most important part
of the plan , of campaign artfully mapped out in
the city offices of the Stinson Reform League.
The batteries are masked to-day. If Reduction of
Members takes place the forces of re-action will
devastate the ranks of Labor, of the Public Ser-
vice 0 f Unionism,'to the music of leading articles
in the daily papers, akin to the triumphant jeers
and unmeasured gloating? of the Age and Argi s
over the crucifixion of the Victorian Rail way men.
This is part of the “Economy” promised by
Stinson ; but only part. The electors are told
that there will also be economy in expenditure ;
less bridges, less of the country
are to go”unrepaired, railways unbuilt; the settler
who has been “coddled” because he has had a
member to look after his interests, is cynically
invited to cut his own throat by bringing about a
system under which Parliament will be dominated
bv city and suburban members, themselves
servilely apprehensive of the powers of the great
daily newspapers, whose antidemocratic policy is
hatched in aristocratic city clubs. The pioneers,
the people in the true sense, because producers,
who have borne in a sense most keen* the heat and
burden of national Strife, who have fought with
the demon of drought, and starved and slaved and
baked in the arid years that have.passed, in order
to raise homes for their families and provide
meals for their children, are to be robbed of their
facilities to get their produce to market, to he
denied the advantages by which the rightful
expenditure of public money lias in the past
mitigated their Hard, starved, semi-civilisation, on
the mandate of a metropolitan lawyer named
Stinson, and a gang of city men whose efforts
never made a blade of grass grow or filled a bag
But^perhaps, chief of all the good anticipated
from reduction of members, and back of all the
ugly plotting to achieve the ends of the Stinson
clique, is the destruction of the N.SAV. Labor
party. It is hoped that in a smaller Parliament
Labor will be smothered. It is true that in certain
eyes the sins of Labor are.great,... There is not a,
sweating employer, not a conscienceless con-
tractor, not a greedy parasite who builds a fortune
on the flesh and blood of our underpaid men and
women, hoys and girls, who does not curse the
day which saw the power and brilliancy of en-
lightened Labor called at last to its proper work
in the State through its Parliomentary represen-
tatives. What are. some of its achievements ’
The Old Age Pension Act costs the State nalf-v
million pounds sterling annually, m round none
bers. It is viewed with dislike by the Reformer,
out j,t stands „as tb# 'gKfttest measure of human!-
tarism ever accomplished.* By its repeal, “Reform ’
could save half a million. Underitsbeneficentactiori-
thousands of old men and women rest their heads
in peace at night, undisturbed by visions of the
workhouse. And this is one of Labor’s evil deeds.
The Early Closing Act, which has liberated to air
and exercise thousands of lung-starved girls and
men, is classed as one more of the vexatious inter-
ferences with the rights of the employer, the
responsibility for which lies at the door of the
Labor party; and which, by them, is gladly
accepted. The Arbitration Act is another, by
which reason supersedes force, and civilisation is
brought one step nearer to that “ universal law ”
which must, in the end, regulate the life of every
community as well as every individual. ess
grievous sins are the “ minimum wage 55 and “ day
labor 53 system against which large numbers of:
the employing classes are in revolt. To these and
other sins in the interests of the workers and of
the peopleat large—of the very old 1 and the young •
the Labor party gladly pleads guilty, rejoicing
that no “Song of the Shirt” or “Cry of the
Children ” goes up from Sydney workshops to an
outraged sky. Recognising that socialistic legis-
lation, fettering the hands of the sweater, and
paralysing commercial greed cannot itself make a.
country prosperous ; and keenly conscious that
the only way to make New South Wales wealthy
is to increase its production, the Labor party
is vet fully determined that no step will
be taken on the path of progress across the
slaughtered natural rights of the men and women
and children of the population. Wealth made
by honest enterprise and industry is good, but
the wealth gathered by the hands of usury is
<i curse to those who make and those from whom
it is made. This is the answer we present to the
demand for the destruction of the political
power of the Labor party, which is raised by the
Reformers. We invite the electors to judge
between the Old Age Pension Act and the man
named Stinson ; between the Early Closing Act
and Stinson; between the Arbitration Act and
Stinson ; between the country, vast, suffering,
but productive, and tin; city lawyer amd his
clique, clamoring for the blood of the Labor
party mid all that it has stood for and stands for
in the history of humanity in these land* and seas.
The venomous hostility towards Parliament
as it exists, manifested by the daily news-
papers, has its source in direct self-interest. The
existing Parliament found that the newspapers
were having their wares carried practically free
by the railways of the country at the expense of
the general taxpayer. Parliament forced them to
pay for the carriage of their goods a sum amount-
ing to many thousands of pounds sterling annu-
ally, which goes into the general revenue instead
of swelling the dividends of the shareholders in
those newspapers. A Parliament under the abso-
lute control of a despotic press might conceivably
restore those lost dividends to the pockets of the
aggrieved shareholders in the SYDNEY MORNING
Herald and Daily Telegraph.
Space compels the curtailment of an appeal
which might easily be made more ample and more
forceful. We submit the case against reduction
franklv and confidently to the men and women
to whose hands we have remitted the decision.
The forces behind the “ Reform ” movement have
been rapidly sketched. The Stinson League i*
the rump of the old Taxpayers’ Union and Pro-
perty Defence Organisation ; and is closely allied
with the. Employers’ Union. Its chief objects are
the destruction of the Labor Party, and,a spurious
economy, based upon the starvation of tile settler
and upon the reduction of the wages of men and
women. It is the last kick of the forces of re-
action against the resistless tide of Democracy and
Huinanitafianism ; and, while its objects are
.supremely selfish, its - methods are politically
dishonest.
The men and women of' New South Wales are
earnestly invited tocutout the ballot paper below,
and to mark their .own ballot paper in the same
way on polling-day.


•V ~
(Z
cT
&
■
Yes; thousands of them here in Sydney. \
In offices, in workshops, in homes—everywhere they may be found.
But they should not he aching —Nature never intended them to ache. And
they wouldn’t ache if it were not for the delicate nature of those filters of the
blood —the kidneys. , -
You know that when a filter gets clogged up there’s going to be serious
trouble if it isn’t cleaned out. It’s exactly the same' With the kidneys—they
become clogged and disordered through cold, overwork, strain, or faulty living—
the poisons they ought to take out of the blood are left and carried all round the
system. Backaches'and Kidney Trouble follow as surely as night follows day.
But there’s a cure—a perfectly safe, sure, and proved cure
Doan’s
They have been curing people in Sydney for years, curing every form of
Kidney Trouble —Yes, even down to the last stages of Bright’s Disease and
Diabetes. They will cure you, too.
This claim is backed up by
SYDNEY PROOF.
Mr. Janifed Htidson, lo Lemiox-street, Ne&'tdWh, this
city, says“ I work in the Bondi sewer. There is a
constant drip-drip there, and when working it mostly
happens that one is wet through. Some parts are better
than others, but while working in the shafts one is con-
tinually damp, and this affected my health. My trouble
came with a bad cold in my kidneys, which caused
terrible pains in the back. I did my work, but it was
most fearful torture for me to do so, as you can well
understand. I was exceedingly bad with these pains
when I saw Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills advertised,
and it struck me by the name of the remedy that it
should be good for my complaint. I procured a box, and
they cured me in fairly quick time. I could not take
them constantly, being afraid to use them while working
jn the wet sewer, but I managed to take two doses a
week. The nature of my work causes me to have slight
returns of the pains, but I take a dose of Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills, which never fails to euro me. lam
never without them in the house.”
Mr. J. Caneron, 29/ Balmain-road, Leichhardt, this
city, says : —“For a few years I have been trying to get
the upper hand of kidney trouble, but all my efionts were
futile until I used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. I
used to have pains in the back, and these were so bad I
had to lie about pretty well helpless, give you
a better idea of the serious condition I was in than any
other illustration. I had begun to imagine that it was
not in the power of medicine to bring me relief, when I
got a box of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. This
' remedy began to do that which so many had failed to do.
A few doses gave me an immense amount of relief, and in
a little while cured mo completely of paius in the back,
and put my kidneys in perfect order. I can give these
pills a first-rate recommendation ; I know others who
have been cured by their use.’’
Mr. Mark Tierney, 6 Darling-street, Glebe, states
“ In reference to the statement made by me four years
ago, regarding my cure by Doan's. Backache .Kidney Pills,
I am glad to inform you that I am still well, and have
been ever since. I am only too pleased to let anybody
know about this medicine.”
The statement referred to is as follows “ For a con*
giderable time, I’ve been Subject to severe pain across
the small of my back ; at times it extended down the
loins. I was always using iiniments, but can’t speak
much of. the result. I could not rest comfortably at
night, thus had insufficient sleep. I saw Doan's Back*,
ache Kidney Bills advertised, and obtained a box. The
first few doses eased my pains, and, after taking a course,
I was thoroughly cured.”
For sale by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes, 15s. 3d.), or will be posted on receipt
of price by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-stre-et, Sydney.
BUT BE SURE THEY AEE
#
Sorting-Out the Immigrant.
When the other day the Six Hatters came
to Australia in bonds, and when Australia
made them wait in the lobby, while she en-
quired into their intentions and character,
the autocrat of pretty well every Tory din-
ner-table sworS ' that there was no other
country in the world, sir, where such an
abominable state of things would be toler-
ated. And whenever there is a wild sug-
gestion that- the immigration laws should he
enforced to. keep out the"'’undesirable to
keep out jimmy Yosjlima, for instance,
from Japan; withhis,. wife and female cou-
sin—the autocrat lays it down, as a rule
which has no exception whatever that a
country can’t keep itself clean and become
great at the same time. Now, there is no
country which opened its doors wider than
did the United States in "its younger days.
It took the immigrant no' matter whence he
came; took even the negro by tens of thou-
sands. But soon .the United States found,
that the pplicy . was disastrous, and little
by little it was altered. From 1882, when
the drastic Exclusion Acts were aimed at
the Chinese, down to. this day, the United
States Government has steadily strength-
ened its immigration laws, until now they
are far ahead of anything of which Aus\ra-
lia has even dreamed. Characteristically
putting the matter on a strictly business
basis, the Govern.ment has, moreover,
thrown ;,upon ptheis most of the expense of
sorting out the immigrants. The law is
that no,contract labor shall be admitted to
the United. Sates, nor any person who is a
pauper or likely to become a,- public charge,
and no one who is diseased. If the Immi-
gration .Commissioners decide that a person
who has. been .brought to port is an under,
sirablo immigrant, or if within twelve
months pf landing he becomes, in any Way
a charge; upon the country, the shipping
company which brought him must take him
away again. This is so serious a matter
that,, for their own protection, the com-
panies have established numerous sorting-
out statics is in Europe;—in particular one
on the German frontier of Russia, and an-
other at Havre, in France.. Xot the sorting-
out is not complete, even, though every ap-
plicant pass the depot surgeon, and the de-
pot detective, and is scrubbed and fumi-
gated; the Atlantic steamship companies
nave still to take back something over one
out of every 100 of their passengers. There
are other; provisions, now almost countless,
but all- helping—such a provision as that
one under which, not so- tong ago, a prince
was, to his gloat horror, also kept waiting
in the lobby because, having lost an arm,
and the otner being apparently not much
good, .it was doubtful whether he could
t arn a living. The courts also,, which have
not always kept, pace with the democratic
progress of tlie American people, have
helped ~in this matter, at any race. Only
last year,, with 1 tire. Jap,. looming larger* than
ever, it was decided at Washington that no
Japanese could become a naturalised Ame-
rican citizen under any conditions—neither
he nor.Agy alien of Asiatic descent. Now
if the autocrat of almost any Tory dinner-
table, hasn’t been talking wild, loose, and
utterly foolish talk, the United States, with
all this restrictive legislation, ought to be
suffering from w very severe blight ; and at
least a dozen countries ought, to be prepar-
ing to wipe' what is left Of' America off the
face of the earth. And yet, strange to say,
there isirUaii'y blight. Also,'the more re-
strictive the laws are made, the greater the
demand for admission, In 1897, 2X0,397
people were admitted; every year since
then has .shown an increase, until in 1901
the total had grown to 487,9X8. The fact
that thousands are sent back makes no dif-
ference in the demand. Nor could any-
thing else be expected ; for who wants to
go with the maimed and the mad and the
bound when, if he is good enough, he can
travel with the whole and the sane and the
free? So Australia is going to improve,
not imperil, it's future by lpoking well to
the foundations upon which it builds. If it
is challenged for precedent, here it is. And
if it wants encouragement, here it is too.
Beid’s Top-doggery.
G. H. Reid, himself supplied the criterion
by which to (judge his public actions when
once, in tl\e recklessness of his impudence,
he cbnfcSoied that he “w anted to be top-dog,”
and that’was why lie had acted in that way.
The top-dog motive was apparent enough to
many before , that confession, but the ad-
mission set the seal of validity on what was
already the intelligent, if not the popular,
verdict; Entering politics from that
academy of garrulous insincerity, the de-
bating club, G. H. Reid first sought pro-
minence by bis eye-glass,, bis flippant Tory-
ism, and the elegance of hro clothes. The
Reid of .those, days was minded to be a
dandy, when comedy in the drawing-room
seemed to be a more promising role than
his later buffoonery in the kitchen. But
that was soon dropped. For one thing, it
didn’t fit Reid physically. Nor did it fit
the times. G. H, Reid, the pseudo-radical,
with jolly, fatness in his knapsack for every
working-man voter, and a conviction that,
after all, the gallery was the paying part of.
the house, then came on to the stage. There
was in him urgent need to get on—to be
“top dog.” Drawling out Government
House cynicisms promised nothing. Cul-
tivating the Labor vote, and joking about
his own obesity in a familiar way on the.
hustings, showed as a better game. It was
played for all it was-worth. What a humble
fellow wets >" the Reid of those days; how
studious to disavow and repudiate any dis-
loyalty to Parkes whilst he was strangling
the old man politically; how proud to in-
vite a-Labor member to tea ; how strenuous
and unscrupulous to use the working-class
dissatisfaction with George Dibbs’ strike,
policy, as, a means to power ! The reward
came, and G. 11. Reid was at last top-deg*
Parkes pushed aside (in time his death-bed
to be,placarded with Reid’s posters), Dibbs
ousted from office. Q. IT. Reid Premier.
He wgs a, sort of Premier on sufferance at
first; a stop-gap expedient until Parkes
was ready to lead again, or Wise, or
McMillan, or Bruce Smith stepped into
his shoes—a Premier who had to pray
humbly tb /that worthy and dull cow-
merchaut, Brunker, to join his Cabinet and
lend him aid. But when a man of great
acuteness and no principle, except that, of
being top-dog, gets to power, he holds it
for long. So it was with Reid. He gerry-
hiandered the finances and the civil service,
popular mbveS both, especially the former.
A Premier who could reduce taxation, take
burdens off “the stomachs and the backs
of the people,” was a fine fellow indeed to
the common eye, which saw nothing of the
honest effort of Dibbs to keep down the
borrowing curse, or the reckless indiffer-
ence, of Reid to the nature (of the expedi-
ents by which he could reduce taxation
and still, show a, surplus. And so on until
the end,, when the ton, dog lost his balance
from too much elevation, forgot some of his
cunnirjg, thought that he had become
strong enough to dispense with fawning,
and learned in what estimation he really
was, fieldr Trace".jt front the beginning
until tliiS day, and throughout liis whole
political career George Reid has had but
one motive—to be top dog, and never a
ecrupß/" 'of generosity or of principle has
smirched his fidelity to that ideal.
Freetrade for Freetrade Newspapers.
Some years ago—many years ago m fact
—the Freetrade daily newspapers of Sydney
persuaded a so-called Freetrade Government
to enact, free carriage by post of newspapers
—N.S.W. papers only. This amounted at
once.to an almost prohibitive- postal tariff
against outside newspapers, and an, enor-
mous subsidy to- local enterprise in the
newspaper publishing, line. The legality of
the step was unquestionable ; the decency
of it from a “Freetrade” Government for
the benefit of Freetrade newspapers, which
savagely condemned proposals for similarly
helping other and far more deserving indus-
tries, is another matter. Then the law was
stretched a little to provide still further
privileges for the Sydney Freetrade news-
papers ;• an early morning train service was
instituted to carry their goods to remote
centres, where they could compete aga : i .t
country newspapers. To secure this for
the Freetrade newspapers the Freetrade
Government paid a special subsidy to the
N.S.W. Railway Commissioners. With
Federation came a new ova of comparat-ve
purity and honesty of administration. The
Australian Government, not being under
the thumb of any coterie of newspapers,
imposed postage on papSrs—following
therein tjie precedent set bv practically
every other Government in the world—and
refused to continue the special subsidy
(about the legality of which there is grave
question) .to. the N.S.AY. railways for carry-,
ing newspapers free. This caused a bitter
shriek from the Freetrade papers, and is
responsible for much of their antagonism
to the Federal Government. The fact that
they demand Protection for themselves so
strenuously, constitutes an excellent reason
why their pleas for Freetrade for other in-
dustries, and their frenzied denunciations
of bonus, "for other enterprises* should be
very much discounted. It’s a poor cook
who objects to his own victuals.
We Want Population.
The Commonwealth is not in such fl good
way tlTat it can afford to neglect any means
to progress. Its population is not increas-
ing at a rate that suggests advancing pro-
sperity. What immigration Australasia at-
tracts gofes mostly to highly-protected
Maoriland. Its volume is, however, in-
significant' as compared with the rush of
European immigrants to Canada and the
United States. The Unit’d States in par-
ticular, which bars out all but the roost
desirable- colonists and enforces a law be-
sides which Australia's Immigration Re-
striction Act is mildness itself, attracts,
nevertheless, .the largest stream of immigra-
tion in the world. IE in Australia the fer-
tile coast lands were available for close
settlement, instead of being, to a large ex-
tent, Ibcked up by laud monopolists and
rack-renting landlords—if a wide range of
manufacturing industries here offered to
the newcomer a selection of employments,
not only would the present population be
relieved of its unemployed problem but a
stimulus would be given to "an inflow of de-
sirable immigrants from abroad. It is the
nation which sternly bars out the undesir-
able at the same time that it offers the de-
sirable man the certainly of a good liveli-
hood. which gets the pick of the surnlus
population of other lands. The Australian
legislature has made a good start in keen-
ing out undesirables. The chief work of its
next session should be attracting desirables.
That c-an'be dene in only one way—by open-
ing up avenues of employment, in factory
and on farm, for the people already here
and for others of the class we may
time here.
THE disreputable LABOR NOTE-
“Mr. E. Findley" rood a 'private and confi-
dential circular sent out by the Employers’
Federation, in which the need of organising'and
consolidating the clerks’ veto in [?] to-
socialistic legislation was dwelt upon.”
Employer walking down street with his Ids.
d-week clerk, just before the dictions) : “How
fortunate w pro that wove nothing in
common with a low[?] G[?]"
Mo Flap-Doodle Want'd.
BUT SOUND SENSE AND WORK.
.. Flag-waving, demonstrating, - processing,
joining mumno-jumbo lodges and associa-
tions, becoming addicted to regalia and
countersigns, bleating of children and bla-
thering of men, hinder, and. not help, a
national movement. They put things in a
'false light of sickly sentimentalism, sap
national vitality, and detract from that
manly sturdiness which is the root of all
genuine patriotism. It is a sign of a de-
cadence. in the American national character
that it has of late given itself up so. much
to oratory and flag-waving, and Jingoism,
and frenzied wars with little peoples—all of
which are, in a sense, .expressions of one
mental attitude. Boastfiilness breeds arro-
gance, and arrogance the desire for easy
mastery, and thence cruelty, and finally
cowardice. The great want in this land is
not for men, women, or children to wave
something, sing something, or orate some-
thing, but to do something—to beget child-
ren, to establish industries, to till the
fields, to pay up the debt. The last might
almost be put first." Australia is nowadays
asked daily to tremble because somebody’s
speech or action may affect the country’s
credit abroad. So to ask Australian child-
ren to sing
“ Australia’s marching on to a future bright
and grand ”
when, as a matter of fact, she is slinking
along beneath the eye of Uncle is bad as a
lie and worse as a folly. The continent
should not have anything approaching a
flattering remark to say about itself until
it has at least started to redeem its pledged
property and to get some of its tools of
government out of Uncle’s claws. Nor
should there be any unnecessary waving of
the Australian flag until it can wave over
something like a self-contained, self-sup-
porting country. Australia at present im-
ports governors, gimcracks, military com-
manders, machinery of all sort 3, officials,
turkeys, ••cheese, clergymen, lollies, lawyers,
and a host of other articles easily capable
of local production. It exports mainly
immature promissory notes and raw pro-
ducts. Its lot is that of the Gibeonit.es,
to do the rough, coarse work of other
people, leaving higher work for supposedly
higher intelligences. Until that- position is
altered, and Australia -shows ability to pro-
duce guns and governors, and ships and en-
gines—shows that- it is as good a country
as Chili or Belgium, there is no call for
vaingloriousness. This continent really does
not own a flag or an anthem to get excited
over, not- having to its credit the achieve-
ments of which they are the symbols. We
should. earn our songs first and sing them
Bruce Smith, in a recent speech, wasted
a lot of time in clearing his character from
a charge of sending his children to R.C.
schools. The time might have, been much
better spent in explaining how he happened
to be a violently Freetrade. Minister who
gave large Protect.iop to nearly 50 indus-
tries, and then pointed to the results as a
proof of the blessings of Freetrade.
afterwards; redeem our country before
glorifying its greatness. It is one of the
most discouraging features of Australian
public life that, when so'muoh evil awaits
remedy, a:::! ..so much gs.oswork is undone,
the commonly proposed nethod of reform
is to sing something or wear a badge, or
make a speed). That is aiming at the
flash of hysteria instead" of the glow of
health.
To a deputation of Sydney ’unemployed
which waited cn him with a request that
he should help them to find work in
America ( !), U.S.A. Consul Baker took
some pains to explain the severely restric-
tive nature of the U.S. immigration laws.
No person is admitted to the States who
is likely to become a pduper through
disease or otherwise, who is under con-
tract, who. has ever been in a poor-house
or in receipt of alms, or who lias not 30
dollars in his or her possession. With all
these restrictions the U.S. attracts a huge
number of immigrants yearly ; but then
tlie country can offer them work. When
the Australian tariff is built on American
lines we will be able to do the same. The
unemployed and their friends would do well
to encourage Protection in Australia—to
make work here instead of deluding them-
selves with wild-cat emigration schemes.
* * *
Said that Portugal is hopelessly in debt
to the London moncjy-lenders, and that
probably must soon pawn its nationhood.
Why Portugal has reached that state is
explained by a writer in a London daily:
“ Little-, if anything, in Portugal that
means anything is Portuguese. The coun-
try produces little of what it needs, and
its natural sources of revenue have been
sold, as have its colonies, to foreign con-
cessionaires. I am living in a typical
Portuguese hotel, where the only Portu-
guese thing is the language. The cutlery
is form Sheffield or Solitigen. The
crockery is French. The chromos on the
walls are American. The bedsteads are
German. The curtains are Nottingham
lace. The oilcloth is Yankee. The wooden
toothpicks, which everyone uses assiduously
and obtrusively after each course, are ob-
viously Yankee ,tco. The pillar-box in
which I shall post- this was made in Derby.
The/street ca.r in which I shall ride home
was made in St. Louis ; and the fare I pay
wall go mostly to the English company that
runs Lisbon’s admirable street-car system.
The country buys everything, and has
nothing to sell. And having long since
paid out all Us capital of natural resources,
it is naturally heavily by debt to everyone.”
A dreadful warning to Australia, whose
George Reid-Pumpkin-Smith party would
urge it on that same road to ruin.
The Protected Yankee Artisans.
Tlie just-published report of the Mosely
Industrial Commission—a body of 22 Eng-
lish tradesmen whom Mosely sent to Ame-
rica to investigate the inwardness of Yan-
kee manufacturing methods —tells several
interesting truths to whom it may concern.
Briefly, the sum-up is that “the true-born
American is .a - better educated, better
housed, better fed, better clothed, and more
energetic man than Ms British brother, and
infinitely more sober.”; The chief point of
interest to however, is in the
comparison of average wages in the two
countries. KWiM* '
The I British Wage. The U. States Wage.
Blot F’rn’Cem’n £2wk. 40 p.-c. more
Boiler Makers £2 wfc. 100 p.c. more.
Furnit’re Mak’s £2 wk. 44 to 60 p.c. more
Iron Moulders £2 wk. £4/1/3
Compositors £2 wk; £3/5
Tailors £2 wk. 100 to 200 p.c. more
Cotton Mule
Spinners £l/18,6 £3,6,8
Boot Makers £l/17/6 30 to 70 p.c* more
The Yankee workman certainly works 9.;
hours a day on an average as against the
Britisher’s 9, but that doesn’t account for
the average 70 per cent, higher wages. Also
the report goes or., In American factories,
speaking generally, great attention is paid
to the comfort -of the workers. Separate
lockers are provided so that the,man can
arrive at and leave his work well clad,
changing at the factory. The shops are well
ventilated excellent lavatories," with
shower bath, etc., are the rule, rather than
the exception. This is net .a question of
philanthropy, but of practical business, the
employer realizing that, to get the best re-
sults from his ‘ hands,’ he must provide for
their comfort and -cleanliness.” Labor-
saving machinery -is -encouraged by the
unions, ,uid the inventor thereof is encou-
raged by- the employer. Finally, from the
cash point of view only, the American
workman is at /the week-end, taking ail
things- into consideration (including every
detail of the cost of living), better off than
his English brother by 25 per cent. (This
takes no account of the fuller and better
life he leads by reason of his superior edu-
cation, the comforts he enjoys ax home and
at work, , nd the respect he ba? for himself
as a fairly, if not adequately, paid worker
in the human army),” Evidently, if Pro-
tection creates, .a,s ■' Sprfice Myth, Yes-No
Reid, McMillan, and other interested
parties claim, a race of millionaire mono-
polists,- it also creates a race of self-respect-
ing, cultivated, well-paid workers, which
Freetrade, as instanced by the- case of
England, does not do.
How little Protection Australia has got as
yet, and how much it needs a McKinley
tariff! A railway engine costs, about
£4000; of which £2400 goes for labor,
£l6OO for raw material. Very little of the
£2400 and just about none of the £l6OO is
spent here, most of the material being im-
ported ready made up ; e.g., boiler plates,
copper plates, steel and iron sheets, bars
and angles, brass tubes, tyres, centres,
axles, Westingho.us© brakes. Even the
paint and varnish are often imported.
Australia merely puts the thing together—
and does not always do that. Yet the raw
material is all at hand ; efficient Protection
would mean the employment of ten men
for every one at present engaged.
* * *
SydneyD.T.’s ” miserably ‘erv-ilc atti-
tude to the foreign money-lend ir :
“ Beyond that, the Commonwealth has it-
self done much to irritate British i: terests 1
since Federation was inaugurated. Inci-
dents like those of the d< tuition of the
hatters, the hostile steps, taken ai.d pro-
mised, against Anglo-Australiaii shipping,
and the . prosecutions of Anglo-Australian
mercantile houses have all exercised their
effect.”
This, apropos of the blessed difficulty now
being experienced in putting the com try
more into pawn! Then, to placate Rhv-
lpck, Australia is to allow importers of
Englijh hatters to show a haughty m l< nipt
for our laws, English tramp steamers to
ruin our' local carrying industry, and Eng-
lish swindlers to rob our customs? Could
even the Gwe’Suliivan reckon a borrowing
policy good at that price?
London “ Daily Chronicle ” taking an un-
duly optimistic view (but- not to the- degree
that the, malignant auti-Federal Australian
press takes an unduly pessimistic view) sum-
marizes the, record of the first Australian
Federal, .session :
Every adult woman and every adult man
is made a voter in all national elections
throughout the entire Commonwealth.
Aii property qualifications for voters and
candidates are swept away.
No man may spend over his election
more than- ■ £250 if competing for the Sen-
ate, or £lOO if standing for the House of
Representatives.
The door is shut upon Chinese, Japanese,
colored labor and any other alien immigra-
tion calculated to lower the standard of
living and wages in the Commonwealth.
The Eankas are being gradually banished
from Queensland. ■
Postal and telegraph and telephone rates
within the Commonwealth have been
cheapened, to an extent never before pos-
sible.
A deadly .blow lias been struck at the pro-
fessional military spirit by the. affirmation
of the principle that there shall be a purely
citizen army for Australia, and no com-
pulsory service outside of the Common-
wealth. '
The right of Governors or Govdrnors-
General t ; o oppose or defend, or publicly
comment on Ministerial acts has been
dramatically and emphatically repudiated.
A Federal public service in which the
very highest posts shall be Opened to the
poorest with ability has been legislated for.
A minimum wage of £llO a year for
every adult Government employee, with
three years’ service, woman or man, has
been provided,
A date has been fixed after which Aus-
tralian mails cannot be carried on
steamers employing black labor.
This “ The Chronicle ” calls “a world’s re-
cord in democratic legislation.” And if„the
Australian would only look at the spknrtiicf.
work his Federal Parliament has done, in-
stead of.-heeding. the soured grumbling* of >
parochial politicians who have lost some of ,
their i personal importance, he would realize' '
that “The Chronicle” isn’t so very far out,
sfe
y
_ yjjeceiVeK
t./ i/K, \\lty ■ role )


2
IT
9
U
U
1L
&
k
fet
$| 000 000
TTIE M/UtO/Y DOttARS
i/Ofttf D ROOHTEJJ.ER
OTTERS For* A
f/TALT/SY STOMACH
The man who proved Thai" he was five Years ahead of Prof Loeb ii\Wy
discoverirvo fha! “ElecfricilY Is Life" now says rhaf he can cure «Jr\o.
D. Rockefeller, and acrees To Give $5,000 ro chars Iy if he fails. 0
/ f
METHOD BY WH/CH JDfi Tf'
I. A U CHUR PROPOSES TO
HARM THE M/11/ON
D O EDA RTS
BY JOHN FRANCIS BYRNES.
Atlantic City, N.J., June 19, 1903.—Jn0. D. Rockefeller offers a million dollars to
the man who will give him a healthy stomach. He made, that offer to a doctor who
called upon him, saying that it would be worth a million to him if he could fix his
stomach up so that it would digest his food.
“ A million dollars for a healthy stomach I”—John D. Rockefeller.
“I accept the offer, and will forfeit OOOOdol. if -i fail to deliver the cure.”—Dr.
McLaughlin.
This looked to me like, material for an interesting story, which led me to Dr.
McLaughlin’s offices for more particular detaijs.
The first greeting from the doctor convinced me that I had met a man of convic-
tions, apd strong ones, The doctor was enthusiastic over what he terms a long-sought
opportunity, and entered gleefully into a discussion on the subject.
“ 1 would like to accept, that offer,” said the doctor. “ I think that I can earn it,
and, farther, I believe that no medicine on earth in the shape of a drug will do what
Mr. Rockefeller wants done, simply because there is no vitality in the secretive glands
of his 'stomach, and until he gets that vitality, which no drug can give him, he will
never cured.
“Just understand one point clearly: His food does not digest because certain
functions related to digestion are powerless, to act. They are weak, incapable of doing
what nSsure intended. You see that. Now you can see that to set him right you must
revive |pe strength in the parts which* :are weak. That is plain. Drugs will not do that.
They neiver did, and they never will; and every doctor on earth knows it.”
“What will do it, then? Electricity!
“I would pay £lOOO this minute to see John D. Rockefeller walk into this office
and permit me to tell him what I can do for him,” said the doctor. "I’ am as certain
that I can build up his digestive apparatus as I am that 1 have done the same thing for
hundreds of others. His ease is not incurable by my method, and I would consider my
fortune made if he would but grant me a trial.
“ W’hat is my method? The restoration of vitality—nothing more. To appreciate
what I am going to say, you will have to understand that it is now generally conceded
by medical men that the" motive energy of human organs—the, force which keeps the
heart pulsating, the stomach digesting, and the brain scheming—is Electricity.
“A year ago, Professor Loeb, recognized as a high authority, and who has recently
been engaged by the University of California, stated that he had discovered, after ten
years of studious research, that electricity -is the basis of human vitality.
“ Just glance at this book of mine, written in 1896, and read what I say in the
introduction.”
I took the open book from the doctor’s hand, and read:—“l anticipate still greater
results from my efforts toward demonstrating the truth of my lifelong claim that
‘ Electricity ’ is the basis of all animal vitality, and without it we could not live.”
“ That indicates that my discovery* was years ahead of Professor Loeb,” continued
the doctor, “ but I claim no credit for that. I did not discover it at all. It was my
belief twenty years ago, as it is the belief of every thinking man to-day, and I have simply
developed the theory until now it is a proven fact.”
In another part of his book Dr. McLaughlin gives a more comprehensive solution
of the heat problem than that advanced by Professor Loeb. Dr. McLaughlin says :
“ The food that we eat- is treated as fuel by the stomach, just as the coal in a
furnace. The chemical action which is produced upon the food by the acids and juices
of the stomach burns the food and causes a carbonic heat. This heat is electricity, and
it is forced into the nerves and vital organs, and is their life.”
Further, Dr. McLaughlin says': Tli'A electrical heat generated by the consump-
tion of our food should keep heaithy every vital organ of the body. Exhaustion of the>
vital organs arises when the waste is greater than the repair—when the stomach is. not
able to generate sufficient electrical heat to supply the demands of nature.
“ This excessive waste is due to over taxation of the vital forces by hard work
mentally, grief or worry, extra physical exertion, severe fevers, such as typhoid or
malaria, which drain away the vitality and leave the system run dow r n.”
Now, here is where Dr. McLaughlin passes beyond the period covered by Professor
Loeb, and shows how this vital electricity, which is the basis of life, may be replaced in
the body when, lost by the causes producing prostration.
He says:—“When the stomach is not able to generate sufficient of this energy to
supply the demands of the vital organs, the natural result is a lowering of nerve, organic,
and muscular power—a general break-down. Then an artificial agent must be used to
assist the stomach. That agent is Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt.
“ This is the remedy for Mr. Rockefeller. To prove my faith in it I would be will-
ing to put up £lOOO, to be given to any public charity which he may select, if I fail to
cure his stomach in four months, he to wear my appliance for six hours each day or
night during that time. And he may be the sole judge as to the results obtained.”
“ How about Mr. Rockefeller’s offer of a million dollars, doctor?”
“ That is a secondary matter. I want it, of course, but not for my own use, as I
don’t need it, and a million dollars wouldn’t increase my happiness one quiver. I would
much rather have the satisfaction of seeing my invention successful in curing a case
where so many noted physicians have failed. When a man has devoted the greater part
of his life to the development of an idea which he thinks will benefit humanity he is
passionately fond of his idea, and money holds little fascination for him.”
“What would you do with the money, doctor?”
“If I should earn the prize, l would gladly consent to having it go to some public
charity, tvhich I would reserve the right to name.”
“ And the £lOOO which you offer?”
“ On the day that Mr. Rockefeller agrees to use my treatment and observe my simple
instructions, I will put up my certified Cheque for the amount, to be paid to' any public
charity which lie may designate if he. says that I have failed in my work.”
“Then you leave the matter entirely in his hands?”
“Entirely. I am willing to trust to his decision.”
“ A jgjteat many wealthy men are suffering tortures and dosing with drugs
without relief who never try a remedy like mine because they impose entire confidence
in their family physicians who believe that ‘electricity is a remedy of the future, not of
to-day,’ and so advise their patients.”
" Is' ib true, doctor, that your patients are mostly people of the middle or poorer
class?”
“ Yes; when a rich man is sick he calls in his doctor, who writes a prescription and
looks wise, and the rich man has confidence that lie will be well to-morrow. He feels
better, perhaps, because the doctor can fool nature for a while. But after a while the
doctor looks wise, and it doesn’t do the rich man any good, and the first thing he knows
nature demands her price, and he has to pay it, as the doctor can help him no more.
“ When a poor man gets sick, he does the same way, but he soon gets tired of the
doctor’s bills, and takes his case in his own hands, and comes to me. I cure him with
Electricity, and that is why my patients are usually poor men. Rich men’s doctors will
not let them come to me. \
“ Now, Professor Loeb says that the animal heat is Electricity. That I know to be
true. We get that heat from the chemical action of the acids and juices of the stomach
upon our food. That is combustion. This combustion produces carbonic heat, and
carbonic heat is Electricity. That is the basis of life in every vital organ. As long as
the stomach is able to generate enough of this heat to replenish the wear and tear upon
our vital energies we are strong and active.' it is when the stomach finds the strain too
heavy that we grow old and begin to decay.
“ The human body is just like an engine. It breaks down when the physical energy
is overtaxed. That energy is electricity. I have here a means of replenishing the
electricity of the body, and that is the basis of my treatment.
“Decay in old men is similar to functional exhaustion in younger men. Years have
nothing to do with it. In each case it.is the failure of the stomach to generate sufficient
energy to supply the demands made by the vital organs.
“ How quickly we fail when the stomach fails to digest the food ! That shuts off
the supply of energy.
“ One decrepit old man of 75 had in youth been a blacksmith. After using my ap-
pliance he took up his tools, and says he can work as hard as he did at 35. He says he
is an old man made young.
“ Another, who was a wreck at 49, and said that he had been so for twenty years,
was cured, and three years later undertook the. severe hardships of a trip to the Klon-
dike. He returned a few months ago, and said that he had stood the terrible privations
better than hundreds of young men. ..
“ I could cite thousands of similar incidents. When you see that I have fifty thous-
and voluntary testimonials, and that .there is hardly a hamlet in any English-speaking
country without one or more cures by my appliances, you will understand that my
experience has been broad.
“My treatment is a success in apy case where strength is lacking, whether in the
nerves, stomach, heart, kidneys, liver, or any other part. My appliance gives a soothing,
constant electric glow, which is taken by the body just as a sponge takes up water. It
cures rheumatism in any guise, as well as every other form of pain.
“I am an enthusiast, you say? Why should I not be? I have the gratitude of
thousands of people who have been cured by my Electric Belts after the failure of the
best physicians. lam enthusiastic because I know that I offer suffering humanity the
surest cure for the least expenditure of money that is known to-day.
“I have gained my success by. learning how to treat my patients, and then curing
them. I know how others do not. I charge nothing for my knowledge, knowing that it
helps my business to do all I can for every patient. My patients are my friends. They
are building my success.”
Then I questioned Dr. McLaughlin in regard to his Electric Belt, and asked him
wherein was it so much better than other similar contrivances.
“ That is very simple,” replied the doctor. “ Having spent twenty-two years in
study and experiment, I have found means of perfecting my appliance, of removing
defects as fast as they appeared in actual use, and of supplying features, such as a
regulating device, non-burnable electrodes, reversible battery, and of increasing the
power of my appliance until it is five time's as strong as that of any other electric body
appliance on the market. , My appliance is conceded to be the only one of the kind
which is constructed upon truly scientific lines. Compared with it all other so-called
electric belts are the inventions of the blacksmith’s hammer.
“It is not upon that point, however, that my success has been founded. My im-
mense business is due to my knowledge of the effect of electricity upon the ailments
treated and the best way to obtain that effect. 1 take every case that comes to me as
an individual, and direct the application of my belt to suit the demands of this particular
case. When you consider the fact that the electricity which I supply is life to the
organs into which I send it, you can see how I get my results. My success comes from
my cures. If 1 do not cure, my business would be worn out long ago. A great many
schemers and frauds have gone into the electric belt business, because they fancied it
was an easy way to make money, and have resorted to very questionable methods at
times, but the old adage, ‘You can’t fool all the people all the time,’ was active in their
ease, and they did not last long.”
•‘Tell me, doctor, why it is that you seem to get better results than a physician
derives from using a battery on his patients?”
“ Because the nervous system, which receives the electric current, is so sensitive
that the current from a battery shocks it, but leaves no additional power to the nerves
or vitals. That is why a doctor’s battery does no good. Now, my system is different.
I pour the current into the body for six or eight hours every day or night, usually while
the patient sleeps. The delicate nerves are not shocked or jarred by this current as
it goes into the system just like a drizzling rain saturates a newly-ploughed field. They
absorb it, drink it in, and as it is their life, they grow strong with it,
“ Some doctors even believe that my appliances do not generate a current. I will
pay £2OO for one of them that fails to give a powerful current as soon as it touches the
body. In days gone by electric belts used to burn tho skin. 1 guarantee my patients
against that. My appliances have soft cushion electrodes which give a glowing heat,
but no heating or burn. They have also a regulator to control the current.
/ w
\
\
1*
%
%
a
M
j- ■
S*
VS> «*
mm.
k
“ The day is drawing near when physicians who now avoid Rectricity because of
their belief that it is yet in the experimental stage, will awaken t(, the fact that while
they have been waiting I have been working, and that. Electricity asl avply it possesses
marvellous curative powers, in cases where drugs will only stimulate.
“ And my success is not limited to stomach troubles. Any organ of the body, any
part that lacks the necessary vitality to perform its natural function, cm be restored by
my method. It gives strength, it makes the blood rich and red and warm, it vitalises
the nerves, puts life and vim into the brain and muscles, it just inakis a good man out
of a bad one in every way.
“With my Electric Belt, I cure Rheumatism in its worst form; I cure pains and
aches, weak nerves, all manner of functional weakness, and any other trouble which can
be cured by restoring strength.”
Dr. McLaughlin has not only proven that electricity is the substance of life and
organic vitality, hut has gone so far a 3 to perfect the best-known means of. replenishing
that force in the body when it is lost. His electric beit is the natural result of scientific
study, coupled with experience and mechanical skill.
• “Now, doctor,” I said, “your theory sounds very good, hut can you give me any
bona-fide evidence of cures to back up your statements. You know that, there are a great
many advertised remedies, and this ease of Mr. Rockefeller, who has been in the hands
of tiie best physicians for years, is very good proof that few of the remedies are suc-
cessful.” pH „ *
“That is my strongest argument,” said the doctor. “Here are letters from promi-
nent people given me without solicitation. You can see these patients, and secure from
them a verification of what is contained in their letters.”
Thereupon Dr. McLaughlin showed pie a file containing letters from many of the
best known people in the city, and some from outside places.
'After reading several of the American testimonials, amongst them one from United
States Senator Call, and many other prominent business people, the doctor handed me
a number of grateful letters from Australian patients. Some from lawyers ; also one
from a doctor, and many influential people, so I am led to believe.
NOTE.—If you will cut out and sign the appended letter, a book will he immediately
sent and an account opened for you, giving you credit for ten shillings. Send to-day.
THE I)R. McLAUGHLTN CO. CUT ALONG THIS LINE.
Dear Sir, —•
Please send me by return mail, one of your ILLUSTRATED FREE BOOKS,
describing your method of curing weakness and disease by Electricity, WITH-
OUT THE USE OF DRUGS. I understand that if I use a Belt requiring DRUG
AUXILIARIES, that the cost of the medicine will be about FORTY Guineas, and
by carefully reading your advertisement, 1 see that yours is the only Belt that cures
without this extra expense. Kindly send me a book by return post, prepaid, and
oblige,
Yours truly, ,
Name
Address Street.
Town.
THIS LETTER ENTITLES THE SENDER TO A TEN SHILLING DIS-
COUNT ON ONE OF OUR BELTS.
THE DR. McLAUGHLIN CO., 87} MARKET-STREET, SYDNEY.
A letter from Mr. Bourke, ex-M.L.A. for Tamworth, now residing at 100 Albion-
street, Surry-hills, says: —“Eight years ago I was stricken down with pneumonia, and
so bad was I that for three years 1 never laid my head upon a pillow. The pneumonia
left me with asthma and acute bronchitis, and for eight years I suffered the g«:ateat
agony, and have been unable to work during all that time. Medicines did me no good,
and I began to despair of ever getting well. I saw ‘your advertisement 'in the daily
papers, and looked upon it as simply another fake upon the market; but, however, 1
thought I would try it, and upon visiting your expert I purchased one of your High-grade
Belts on April 4th last, knd after wearing it a day or two I was thoroughly convinced
that the F.lectricity in your Belt was beginning to make an improvement. I have made
constant and consistent recovery ever since, and am to-day a new man in every way.
Anything 1 can do or say to convince anyone of the merits of your treatment I will
gladly do at all times, and prove to them that the Electric Belt is the best remedy any
man or woman can have. 1 am thankful I came to you when 1 did, and only wish I had
seen you eight years before.
HAD BEEN UNDER 24 DOCTORS.
Mr. GEORGE MENDIE, St. Ives, N.S.W., letter reads: —“ I write you a few lines
to let you know that .1 have received your letter with safety. lam sending you a final
report of my condition. I gave your belt a fair trial, and it cured me, as well as ever
1 was, and I consider it a medical wonder. In the period of <?0 years I have been under
twenty-four different doctors, and in. the five months I have vised it it has done me more
good than the lot of them.”
Dr. McLAUGHLIN says that the chief reason so many people are sceptical about
using his Belts is that the country is flooded with so-called “ galvanic,” “magnetic,”
and “electric” belts, braces, bands, girdles, etc., which are so poorly and crudely con-
structed, arid of such worthless material, that when tried they prove to be valueless and
utterly devoid of curative or strengthening virtue.
Many persons, misled by false claims made for them, have been led to purchase
these articles, because they were cheap. These worthy people, having once been de-
ceived by pretentious charlatanism, do not hesitate to characterize all electrical ap-
pliances to be worn upon the person as frauds or humbugs. Even many intelligent
people have reached this conviction. They could fall into no ifiore serious error.
When carefully constructed, upon the best known scientific principles, and of
suitable materials, belts, bands, etc., worn upon the body, and which communicate, a
constant electrical stimulus to the system, have been pronounced by, eminent physicians
to be of inestimable benefit. In regard to cheap belts, then, he says to affieted per-
sons, try them if you must; but, when convinced, as you will undoubtedly become, of
their utter worthlessness, come to me 1 and get a good one. The Dr. McLAUGHLIN
ELECTRO-MAGNETIC BELT is not a cheap one; it cannot (be made cheaply, and,
therefore, cannot be sold cheaply.
Mr. W. T. PERRY, Guy Fawkes Hotel, via Armidale, New South Wale*, said :—-
“I am writing to let you know about my progress since wearing your wonderful Electric
Belt, and I am pleased to be able to tell you that I feel a most miraculous difference
all through my system. /■'.
“ I am more than' pleased with the result of your treatment, and would strongly ad-
vise all sufferers to give your Belt a trial as soon as they possibly can, I wish you
every success in your business.”
A WELL-KNOWN LEGISLATOR writes : —“ In answer to your inquiries about my
health since I purchased your Electric Belt in December last, 1 have great pleasure in
informing you that I carried out your instructions as nearly as possible from the begin-
ning of January unto the beginning of this month by wearing the Belt when going to
bed, and taking, it off every morning—average 7 hours every 24. After the first three
weeks I wore it I began to feel better in myself, and was able to walk better, and ( npw
I am pleased W say that the 6elt has ENTIRELY (itfRED ME, and I have not used it
now for three weeks. Up to the time I called on you in Melbourne, the week before
Christmas, I had been under the doctor’s treatment for some time, and nearly physicked
myself out of existence, so much so that between ,the physic and the want of sleep and
rest I was almost run down, and had lost in flesh one stone six pounds. Immediately
the belt began to operate successfully my appetite improved, and my strength also, and
now, thank God, through your advice, and the Belt, I am quite well again. I weigiied
myself last week, and have again put on some of my lost flesh to the extent of over a
stone. • ■
“ When I was taken ill with the Sciatica, I had. just been returned to Parliament.
I became so bad I could not walk except under the most excruciating pain, and bad to
tiire a cab to take me to and from the House for over three weeks. I can honestly and
fully recommend your Belt to anyone suffering from this complaint.—l am, Sir yburs
respectfully, " HAY KIRKWOOD, J.P., M.L.A.,
Member of Parliament for Eaglehawk.”
Mr. CHARLES SHEPHERD, Jamieson Town, N.S.W. (whose letter shows him to
be a genuine enthusiast a. 3 to the good lie got from Dr. McLaughlin’s Belt) says:—“l
cannot tell how happy I am to-day to embrace the opportunity afforded me to reply to
your request. I must say I have not for seventeen years enjoyed such good health as I
have since wearing your Electric Belt, and dispensing with the drug and lotion system—
I have not had one dose of medicine since I got the Belt. I use it three or four times
a week, and wear it for five or seven hours each time, and I am gaining strength every
day. I have no pain now in my legs or back, and I have gained over twenty pounds in
weight.”
Mr. JAMES HARDMAN, of Armidale, testifies: —“This is my statement as regards
your No. 7 High Grade Belt. I have worn the Belt for three months and 1 find it a
blessing to me. I bad suffered for years'with indigestion, pains in the head, and a tired
and weary feeling in the legs always, but your Belt, put new life into me. 1 think but
for it I should not be on earth to-day. I was sinking fast, but thanks to your wonderflit
Belt lam as fresh and as lively as ever. I hope you may be long spared to cure many
more as you have done for me.”
There were dozens of letters from prominent man, whose names if Dr. McLaughlin
was permitted to publish them, would be sufficient guarantee of the genuineness of his
cure. Among them were several prominent physicians, who spoke highly of the treat-
ment from personal tests.
“Is your treatment beneficial in cases of general weakness?” I asked.
“ Decidedly. In the same manner that it restores the vitality to the stomach it
builds up the vital force of the nerves, enriches, the blood and restores the motive power'
of all organs. To quote Professor Loeb again : ‘ A part of the chemical energy of food-
stuffs is transformed into electrical energy, which in turn gives energy to the muscles
and organs of the body.’ You see, Prof. Loeb lias proven that all energy of the vital
organs is electrical. Therefore, you can see that when I am able to increase the elec-
trical force of every vital organ I have in my hands the means of cure for every form of
physical weakness or decline.
“You can take a man who is thin, puny, and unnaurished in appearance, and pour
this electric life into his body every night for a few months, with the proper exercise
to draw it into the muscles and tissues, and you can add twenty-five pounds to his
weight, double his strength end vitality, and transform him into a giant in strength, as
I have often done. Look at the men who have worn my belt, and you will see men of
force, men of power and confidence ; men who respect themselves, and are respected
and admired by their fellowmen.
“Poor digestion, inactive liver', constipation, sluggish heart, slow thinking, dormant
energy, and laziness are all due to the lack of electricity. Understand that electricity
is the motive power of the human machine, the power that keeps the organs active, and
you will see what I mean. In such cases you can see how my electric belt will pump
action into the body. It renews the electric life, and transform the sluggard into a
bundle of vigorous energy.
“ This agitation on the subject is going to prove of incalculable benefit to the
future health of our race. Just satisfy the people that they can procure a renewal of
bodily vigor and health by simply renewing the electricity in the body, and you have
given them what they have always prayed for —a relief from noxious drugs. Convince
a suffering man or woman that drugs will not cure them, and that all they need is a new
supply of electricity, and you have made them happy.
“So many people suffer from pains and aches, called Rheumatism or Lumbago, or
Neuralgia, due to impoverished nerves, crying for aid. The life of these nerves is
electricity, and nothing else, will cure them. I can send a gentle current from my
electric belt so that it will convey the life direct to the ailing part, and relief is often
felt in an hour. I frequently cure such cases within ten days.
“ Suppose we take a man who has in one way or another overtaxed his system until
it is in a state of abject exhaustjon, the brain sluggish, all ambition gone, and an ever-
present feeling of despondency, a disposition to give up the fight.
“In that case the electric force has been reduced, and there we have the cause of
the trouble. Now, replace that force and you have a rejuvenated man, as good as ever.
“ If it were not for the prejudice, due to the great number of fakes in the land, I
would not be able to handle the business that would come to me. The ’Free Belt’
fraud, and the CHEAP BELT and DRUG scheme, which are not free or cheap at all.
have made everyone sceptical, but 1 know that I have a good thing, and I’ll pound away
until everyone knows it.”
Before leaving, the doctor informed me that he had been a student of this subject
for twenty-two years, and had never seen a case where his electric belt was properly
applied without grand results. He stated that he has now more than twenty-five large
branches of business. Each office is in the keeping of a staff of experienced men, care-
fully trained in his theories, and experts in the use of his appliances, whose business it
is to give a free personal test of what liis belt will do to all who were able to call. He
said lie had never known a failure in a case where the proper power of current had been
used. That, unlike other belts, his was made, not for show, or a cheap appearing bait
to-other methods, but made solely to cure ; that there were several different grades of
chain batteries, differing in strength only, with the price ranged according to the con-
struction of the Belt, from a standpoint of power secured.
He says that during the past few years over one million of his books have been
given to suffering humanity, either personally or sent by mail.
Any man or woman who is unable to call at his nearest office can obtain one of
these valuable books free upon request by mail. Postage prepaid to any part,.


LADIES,— At this time of the year the bright sunlight, giving place to the gloomy '-epression of dark winter months, brings in its trail a joyful, invigorating, healthful atmosphere, muc s t. - injluene(rrf -the
—animal and vegetable. The birds of the air pipe forth gleeful notes, the beasts of the field grow sleek and merry, and Human Nature is endowed with feelings of a poetical nature Hue is aU bendintr their
summer.”-. All classes and conditions prepare at this season of the year to take and enjoy a holiday. The children from school, the man from his work, the doctor from his duties, or the pohdgia • “ ‘ ’ City who
steps holiday-wise. Those of you who live all the year in town look forward to a ramble through country lanes, while the country folk crowd into town to get a ‘ smft of the seaair and look the shop. It to
are specially recommended to visit MARK FOY’S. From the outside appearance ox Sf ew realise what a Bee Hive of Industry and (food \ alue lurks bemud those -- wm< mvs w i J ‘ dregsiricr and ftll mar ked in
country as well as city folk. From 14,000 to 10,000 customers per day are catered for at VO\ ». Everything new, fashionable, and “ chic "■ is to be found m FOY ron, the best case
the very plainest of figures, thus enabling even the smallest children to note prices for themselves. Every article in FOY* carries a small profit-nothing is sold without a profit except, perhaps, at lan time but the J , >
the smallest possible fraction-just enough to enable FOY to get a bare living. FOY is easily satisfied, ladies; but FOY must live. Where others want 6d. Or I*. per yard profit, one penny satisfies good old lOY.
Summer Costumes.
are much in demand at present, more
especially those gracing’Foy's Show Room.
Sydney ladies have quickly recognized that
Foy’s ready-made costumes are the correct
style, and also being made in so many dif-
ferent styles they can be accommodated at
a moment’s notice with a costume which
slips on and is a perfect fit right straight
away. They are fit for-driving, walking,
or visiting. Just the thing for picnics,
tennis parties, or the park, being made in
dainty shades and styles, and possessing all
the charm and grace so essential to present
day frocking.
Here are a few READY-MADE COS-
TUMES for ail occasions
Fancy Striped Linen Costumes, Smart
tioatei, Handkerchief Collars, 17/11.
White and Cream Linen Costumes, with
Sac Coats, 21/.
Colored Linen Costumes, Blue, Green,
Twine, etc., with Smart Coatee, 19/11.
The Same, Smartly Cut and Natty Styles,
for Holiday Attire, 21/,
Fancy Knorp Crash Costumes, verv popu-
lar, 13/11.
THESE COSTUMES are MADE in
EVERY POSSIBLE SIZE, and PAR-
TICULAR CARE is takeil in the MODEL-
LING, so that PRACTICALLY NO
ALTERATION IS NECESSARY, for we
CAN FIT ANY FIGURE, and THEY are
READY for IMMEDIATE USE.
Mark Foy’s Walking Skirts.
Now, Ladies, please carefully note the
following; it will interest you.
Under the capable supervision of the most
skilful specialists from England, the newest
conceptions in Skirts from the modistes of
Paris, New York, London, etc., are repro-
duced faithfully for MARK FOY’S, and are
placed at your disposal morning after morn-
ing. Some people argue that Australian
dressmakers are -not as skilful as their
otherside of the world sisters. That’s a
mistake, for ladies who have travelled ex-
tensively, and who give the question a fair
hearing, are emphatically of the opinion
that Fashions, as reptoduced by and
emanating from MARK FOY’S, are a credit
to the Commonwealth, and equal in style,
workmanship, and mode to what is offered
to one by leading English shops. They vote
MARK FOY’S Dress Cutters the acme of
perfection, and Ladies, if you wish to reign
in the pink of fashion, you will have the
BEST SKIRT IN SYDNEY if you come to
FOY’S for it, and at MARK FOY’S Prices,
which are not down town prices, but far and
away less than what,you will pay elsewhere.
In Black Voile or Cashmere. Voile, 15/11 ;
Cashmere, 16/11 ; also Cream, 18/11.
Black Alpaca, 13/6.
Black Cashmere, Satin Bands, 10/9.
Elack Alpaca, 15/11; Cashmere, 22/6.
Cream Voile and Twine Applique, 49/11.
White Muslin, Ruched Flounce, Torchon
Insertion, 9/11.
Black Voile over Silk, with Applique
Medalions and Ribbon, 59/6.
Black Voile, Trimmed Glace Ribbon, 27/6.
Crash, 7/11.
Black and Cream Voile, trimmed in Scroll
Design of Applique. Fancy stiched
seam. Cream, 33/6. Black, 36/6.
Lace and Chantilli Gapes and Mantles.
Ladies.—Those of you who have not yet
seen these beautiful specimens of Parisian
grace and elegance should really make it
your very first business when you visit
MARK FQY’S.
They have been the general theme of ad-
miration and flattering comment ever since
first unpacked. FOY, recognizing the fact
that they were eminently suitable for
special dressy occasions, has spared no
pains in gathering together a magnificent
assortment, and the Sydney Ladies have
unanimously given their verdict that more
beautiful and stylish articles of personal
adornment have never before been offered
to them. What are they going to cost? yon
will naturally ask.
Well, Ladies, FOY assures you that in
the recent London and Paris season many
of these Capes fetched as much as 20
guineas each, and the; price at MARK
FOY’S is from somewhere about lf>s. up-
wards. See them without fail, for they
will at once appeal to your keen sense
of what is pretty, stylish, dainty, elegant,
and, above all, cheap.
White Underskirts.
We do an enormous trade in White
Underskirts, because customers know that
the value is there, t.he style is 'there, and
the price is suitable. These Skirts hang
well, are beautifully modelled and designed
by the most experienced artists available.
They are made exclusively in our own
Underclothing Factory, in which some 300
experienced and modern work hands are
engaged, all doing first-class work for first-
class wages.
In former years only hand-worked ma-
chines were in vogue, working at the rate
of 200 stitches per minute. Factory ma-
chines are now 7 in full swing, run by electric
power, and doing 2600 stitches per minute.
These new machines comprise button-
holers, frillers, tuckers, hem-stitchers,
gatherers, chain-workers, pleating and ac-
cordeon pleaters—thus enabling FOY to
place before you only that class of work
which can be relied upon to give general
and unbounded satisfaction, and at the
smallest possible, cost to you. Some
prices :
Real Torchon Underskirt, 37/6, with two
Frills, richly embroidered.
Imitation'. Torchon Underskirt, with
Flounces, very stylish design, 9/11.
Underskirt, .with Insertion and Flounces,
Trimmed Valenciennes, 21/6.
Smart Underskirt, Trimmed Imitation
Brussels and Insertion and Beading,
25/6.
The Underclothing
at Mark Foy’s
is one of the leading features of the estab-
lishment. The utmost care and skill are
employed to see that the work is turned out
faultlessly.
CHEMISES are made on first-class
models, very wide, not skimped, with roomy
arm holes, and in other respects comfort-
able and satisfactory.
KNICKERS from the lowest to the
highest prices are cotistrutted from the
very best material. Plenty of size, with
French waists and American legs.
COMBINATIONS are a perfect fit, and
every care is taken that they shall be the
best possible samples of an up-to-date fac-
tory’s capabilities.
Ladies, yon risk nothing when you buy
from MARK FOY’S. Value, style, and
satisfaction are guaranteed you, 1 and the
price is only just cost price, with the
merest shade of profit on for poor old
FOY.
Night-Dresse?.
Correct in style, width, and length, nicely
shaped shoulders, finished in a correct and
elegant manner ; bell sleeves, short sleeves,
elbow sleeves, with V shaped, square, and
angle cut fronts, also transparent yokes.
Charming and dainty sleeping goWh's. In
fact, everything at MARK FOY’S is a study
to please, not for profits do we strive, but
for the “ renown of each and every article
we sell.”
Corsets.
Are the extensively advertised
articles. Why- -Because the correct value
of a Corset is not properly understood,
l adies frequently pay a heavy price for a
boomed Corset, when exactly the same
shape and style and better value can be ob-
tained at far less from MARK FOY’S.
Many shops charge 16/- for a Corset, the
proper price of which is 4/6»or 5/-. Ladies,
you pay the difference for advertising the
■Cc<ryi t. Therefore, if you want Corsets
without paying through the nose for them,
come up to MARK FOY’S.
You all know the “ MELISSA ” Corset
at FOY’S —a charming, dainty, little figure
support, very popular and suitable for
evening wear; low bust, with suspenders,
a great assistance to the hips; whalebone,
with fteel supports at the sides; in fact,
a little dream, he roll this Corset-at 6/11
each. If we were to advertise this Corset
as extensively as >'ome are, the price would
run tip to 12/8. \ou now have it, minus
the cost of printer’s ink, for 6/11.
Then there is another favorite—“ THE
PALMA,” at 5/C. Wh te and grey, very
lightly honed, and particularly suitable for
the hot weather; short hips, nice dive,
whalebone, and steel sides, specially adapted
for middle-aged ladies. We sell a great
many of these every day.
Also “'THE NINI,” in white, blue, and
pink. Price. 6/3 and 7/11. A ribbon Cor-
set for hot climates. The principal advan-
tages of this Corset are that it is short,
light, and durable, and specially con-
structed to take the weight off the figure.
It is gredtlv worn by ladies who are more
than usually fastidious in the matter of
their Corsets.
“THE LILLIAN,” 4,6, in grey. Another
favorite. A short Corset, not quite so
lightly built, but finely boned; very strong.
They are made, short over the hip and long
in front, giving a graceful and elegant con-
tour to the figure even in cases where
nature has been somewhat lax in her favors.
LILLIANS are selling in hundreds every
day.
“ CORRECT FORM,” 4/11, in white and
grey, is another popular and serviceable
model which calls forth words of praise
from all who are sensible Plough to invest
in one.
“ THE MIRA,” 9 ; 6. An elegant brocaded
straight-fronted Corset, with suspenders,
long hips, low bust, producing a dainty
figure, helping those whose figures require
assistance, and sustaining and portraying
to the fullest degree the graceful curves
which constitute the charms of the human
form divine.
FOY’S CORSETS are FOY’S SPECIAL
CARE, and FOY’S prices for his Corsets,
Ladies, are your golden opportunities.
Babies’ Department.
This section of FOY’S vast warehouse is
in itself an emporium. Every detail is the
subject of well-reasoned thought, and every
like thing necessary for baby is thought of.
The little shirt will be found with flat
seams, net rounded ones to hurt baby.
The finest linen 'and the softest cambric
and the daintiest stitching by hand and ma-
chine, nice little stitches ; nice little morn-
ing gowns, day flannels of the softest make ;
nightgowns; .’little bibs, nicely finished;
dainty little frocks in muslin, silk, and
cashmere ; nice little caps and bonnets —all
of French and American design. Pinafores
for the wee-esi "little mite, and for the
little pets who crawl. All, in short, to
make up a baby’s wardrobe. To this par-
ticular department great attention has been
given for many years, and MARK FOY S.
of -Sydney, is widely known throughout all
Australia as the mo.st complete baby fur-
nisher. You can get a very costly article
or an inexpensive article in this depart-
ment. Everything offered will be found to
Joe of good quality and perfect fitting.
Children’s christening robes and christen-
ing cloaks; children’s pelisses in muslin,
silk, and cashmere—a great variety in
choice and elegant designs; children’s
underclothing^of every description. The
largest stock of children's and babies’
clothing it is possible to get together with-
in the four walls of any building. FOY
loves the little ones, and his aim is to see
the little tots happy and comfortable. There-
fore, Ladies, only the very minutest margin
of profit is added to the cost of each article
of Baby Clothing at MARK FOY’S.
Bcots and Shoes at Mark Fo„ s.
The world moves apace. What was up-
to-date last year is out of date, to-day, so
FOY’S constantly improve and improve and
go with the times, especially in fy>ots, and
it is this principle which has established
such a firm and unshakeab.le confidence in
FOY’S BOOTS in every household in the
State, but reputation can only exist and
flourish if backed up by merit. Therefore
FOY has brought the whole of his stock of
Ladies’ and Gentlemen's Boots right slap
up to the latest dates, and when ordering
anythin? in footgear from FOY'S you may
rely that what you request or select will be
the newest possible style in existence, and,
moreover, the CHEAPEST IN SYDNEY.
C.P. Ford’s Pat. Gol. Bals. and Butt.
Boots, welts, 15/11.
Stout Walking Boot, 17/-11.
Ford’s Best Glace Balmorals and B. Boots,
pumps or welts, 21/u.
Three Bat in Bronze, 3/11.
Courts, 4/6, 4/11, 6/11,
Pingroe and Smith's Best Grade Welted
Shoes, 15/11.
Patent Oxford Shoe, American make, 8/6.
Glace Langtry Shoes, 16/11.
Patent Golosh -Buttoned Boot, 21/6.
Oxford Shoe, Welted, 9/11.
Open Court Shoe, 4/6.
Ladies’ Glace Kid Balmorals, Patent Toe
. Caps, 7/6.
Ladies’ Balmorals, 21,6.
Glace Button Boot, 12,6.
1 Bar, Pointed Heel, Stylish Shoe, from 7/6
Hosiery.
We have all the latest styles in stock,
just freshly imported, and, in fact, beauti-
ful Summer goods.
Dropstiteh Hose, 74d.
Lace Lisle Hose, 1/4, 1/41, 1/6.
Plain Lisle Hose, 1/7.
Embroidered Cashmere Hose, 3,6.
Children’s Tall Lace Hose.
Parasols and Sunshades.
The “CHENE” is making all the running
this season and they well deserve their
popularity. They are very dainty and
delicate in color, and the floral spotted,
striped and scroll designs, as well as the
plain tints, are all so carefully and taste-
fully chosen that they are coming in for un-
stinted praise from all the Sydney leaders
of fashion. ,
Our stock is large, varied, and splendid
value, and the prices range from—Brown,
and Black Parasols, from 2,6, 2/9, 3,6, 4/6,
5/6, 6/11, 7/11, 8/6, 10 6, 12/11. 13/9, 14/6.
Long Silver-mounted Handles, 16/-. Black
and White—6/11, 7/6. 8/11, 9/11, 10,6, 12/6.
Plain Colors—3/6, 4/11, 0,6, 7/11. 9/6. Fancy
Stripes —7/11, 86, 8/11. ‘‘ CHENE,” the
latest craze, 10/6, 10/9. Chine, Satin
Striped, very smart, 13/6, 15/6, 19/6.
Mark Foy’s Gloves.
The b-est quality of hand dressing for the
cheapest cost is the guiding influence at
work. If every lady in Sydney were to hold
up her gloved hands, " the show of hands ”
would be in favor of FOYS’ Gloves. All
our popular makes are in stock, and you
have only to "pick your fancy” (as they
say on the turf) add send on yon if wish on
a post-card to FOVT, and you’ll get it per
return post. Here are a few of our popular
makes : —Reliable, 3/6 ; Princess May, 5/6 ;
Victor, 3/6; Regent, 2/11; Honor Bright,
2/3; La Tosca, 4/6; La Marie,, 3/11 ;. Nyou,
4/3
Black Bress Goods.
Ladies, —/k Black Dress is essential to
complete the wardrobe. It is also useful,
for black can be worn on every and any
occasion. It is, alas! sometimes necessary
for those who are- grieving the loss of some-
one dear to them. However, whether from
choice or force of circumstances • you are
th-inlting of a bi§c-k dress, MARK FOY r ’S
stock of Black Dress Materials will be
found the cheapest, complete:?!,, and most
up-to-date in all Sydney. Herewith is a
list of the most popular fabrics at present
in vogue, patterns of which will be for-
warded op application: —; .
Black French Cashmere, 1/7-5, 1/10-1-, 2/1-1
2/3,-2/6,-2/8, 2/10, 3/3, 3/8.
Black French Poplins, 1/45, 1/65, 1/9, 2/3,
2/9, 3/6.
Black French Coating Serge, 9fd., 1/3, 1/6,
1/9, 1/11, 2/2, 2/6.
Plain Black Mohairs, 121 d., 1/35, 1/6, 1/9,
2/-, 2/3; 3/-, 3/9.
All-wool Black Delaines, 1/41.
B'aek Crepoline Y T oiles, 1/11, 2/35.
Black Canvas Voiles, 1/105, 1/11, 2/3, 2/71,
3/3, 3/6.
Black Taffeta Voiles, 1/65, 1/11, 2/7-J.
Black Knop Voiles, .2/3, 2/8, 3/3, 3/6, 4/9.
Blaijf-k Flecked Voiles, 2/3, 2/8.
Blbek Crepe de Chine, 4/9.
Black Etamene Voiles, 2/95, 2/11J, 3/3, 3/6,
*4/6.
Blajk Figured Mohairs, 9|d., 1/2, 1/9, 2/6.
Also a magnificent range of Fancy Black
Goods, including Figured Poplins, Taffetas,
Knops, Etamene and Embroidered Voiles,
Crepe de Chine, etc.
Men’s Clothing—Juvenile Clothing.
This Department does an extensive busi-
ness, far and away more than is generally
imagined. The trade has bit by bit grown
to vast proportions, and there is but one
reason, viz., the fact of our making in our
own Factory every article vve have to sell,
by which means our customers are insured
of getting clothes which will fit them per-
fectly and recline on their bodies with grace
and ease. From the cheapest description
of a man’s trousers to the best they are full
of satisfaction. Whatever the price may be
in ready-made clothing ,our Cutters en-
deavor to give a good, stylish, cut and fit.
No article whatever can be found in our
establishment over six months old, so
customers can depend upon always getting
up-to-date patterns.
As to Boys’ Clothes. They run into a
gced deal of money for each family, and
with their light-hearted actions in play and
gamboling about, the clothes experience
some exceedingly rough usage. We have
in the past depended upon making and
building up our trade upon the splendid
value W'3 give, the well-made article we
give, and the perfect fit. Mothers. would
save pounds by always getting clothing .for
Boys at FOY’S, for all sizes are in stock.
Men'send their wives all the way from
Parramatta once a month for working shirts
and trousers, and it pays them to come.
They never think of ' going elsewhere.
FOY has the name for Men's and Boys’
Clothing, and, by the way, the ladies crowd
to FOY’S Clothing Deparment, it goes to
show how very widely such good value in
appreciated. To put it plainly, endless
worry, trouble, and cash can be saved by
a shopping expedition through JOY’S
CLOTHING DEPARTMENT.
Fancy Tweed Suits, well cut, 27/6
Tweed Suits, 25/-, 27/6, 30/-, 35/-, 39/6.
Fancy Worsted and Sergerette, 25/-,
30/-, 35/-, 42/-.
Y’ouths’ Blue Serge Sac Suits, splendid
style, 18/11, 25/-, 27/6, 32/6, 37/6
Assam Coat and Trousers, Cream Serge
Trousers, White Drill, 12/6. Trousers,
4/6, 5/6, 6/11. Duclf;, 4/11, 6/11.
Men’s Harvard Working'Shirts, collars and
pockets attached, 2/3, 2/6, 3/3.
Men’s Regatta Shirts, great variety, 3/11.
Men’s Ceylon Flannel Shirts, Stripes and
Checks, collars and pockets attached,
3/9 each.
Men’s White Mercerised Matte (Silk ef-
fect) Shirts, collars and pockets, 2/111,
3/6.
White Mercerised Twill Cotton Shirts, 3/U
Men’s Penama Straw, real Central Ameri-
cans, 14/6 each.
Men’s Brazilian Panamas, 3/11, 4 11 each.
Men’s Soft Felt Hats, dented crowns, Grey,
Fawn, Brown, fast colors guaranteed,
7,6, 8/11.
Men's Boater Straw Hats, 2/6, 3/6, 4/6.
We, have a splendid assortment of summer
wear Natural Wool Underwear for men
and boys at very, very Low Prices.
Write for Catalogue.
“ We stock Men’s Shirts from 14 to 19 inch.
The Manchester Department •
the Home of Thrift and Economy. What
you want for vour house and home, of
course, you want good, but you also want it
Cheap. The Manchester Goods represent
a greater part of the everyday require-
ments of a home. They are just as neces-
sary and just as important as the necessities
which come from the Grocer, Baker, or
Butcher, and they have to last well and
bear all the brunt of the wear and tear of
a household. So while the necessity exists
for acquiring the best possible quality of
Manchester Goods, the question of cost
plays also an important part in one’s calcu-
lations. Therefore, Ladies, in Mark Foy’s
Manchester Department you will find all
you require for the house in Manchester
Goods, arid not only a full and complete
fulfilment of your every desire as regards
variety, but the Prices asked are such as to
transform the drudgery of household reno-
vation into a pleasant and profitable pas-
time.
BY THE WAY.
Foy’s Dolls are very much admired
and generally voted the Best Show
of Dollies in Sydney this year.
WITH THE COMPLUTENTS OF THE SEASON from
MARK FOY’S, Oxford Street, Sydney.
.
Commonwealth Elections.
TE»oili3.aS Day, Woda«sssaua/y, X3sc. IS,
THE LABOR CANDIDATES SUPPORT :
1. Maintenance of a White Australia.
2. Compulsory Arbitration.
3. Old Age Pensions.
4. Nationalisation of fvlcnopoiiec.
5. Citizen Defence Force.
6. Restriction of Public Borrowing.
7. Navigation Laws.
GIVE THEM YOUR VOTES.
1003.
WHEN VOTING PLACE A CROSS OPPOSITE THE FOLLOWING NAMES
For the Senate ARTHUR GRIFFITH x
AND x
TWO OTHERS x
I*- YOU MUST VOTE FOR THREE.
For Barrier—JOSlAH THOMAS x
„ Bland—J. C. WATSON x
~ Darling—W. G. SPENCE x
„ East Sydney—T. H. THROWER x
„ Gwydir-W. WEBSTER x
„ Hunter—ARTHUR RAE x
„ Lang-T. KEEGAN x
„ Newcastle—D. WATKINS x
„ Barkes—C. DYER x
„ South Sydney—E. RILEY x
~ West Sydney —W. M. HUGHES x
„ Werriwa —A, C. BARRETT x
ismos.
Just put a eras
RGir em'OGr, you must not strike out any n
opposite the name you wish to vote ior.
every democrat should read.
£
THE WORKER
99
The Largest and Best=lnformed Labor Paper in the
Empire.
SUBSCRIPTION ----6 s per annum, in advance.
ADVERTISERS reach thousands of Readers not touched by other papers.
Rates on application to
Office : 311 KENT ST., SYDNEY. H. LAMQND, Manager,
BEAK
Wm
'rjV,, V'V
BOOK OF NATURE
—and— ‘' j-
COMPLETE MEDICAL. TREATISE, U
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. RYRN, Sf.D.
A WORK FOR HUSBANDS AND WIVES.
A complete exposition of the Science of Life. If contains infor-
mation of the greatest importance to those contemplating marriage
as-well as to those newly married. It contains everything worth
knowing printed in other books, and an immense collection of facts
made known by recent investigations and discoveries. If you jn-
t.end to marry, read this book. It will instruct you in all .voii ousht
to know. Study this work and have it from Aristotle to the present
day. There are a great number of wonderful and extraordinary
revelations made in this book that only those seriously intending
marriage should be made acquainted with. Illustrated with more
than fifty engravings. Price .3$ (kl post paid. Write for a full
description : sent post free to any address.
Books on all Subjects.
Write for BIG BOOK CATALOGUE,* Post Free Anywhere. -
Pin ate Boor tor ’You'*, Mi a by Dr. Foote, new
edition, illustrated, enlarged, Is ; post. free Is 2d.
Thr Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free Is 3d.
Amours of Gustave,, from the French, Is; by post
la 3d. The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s post.
Firing Hot ; Abbe Mouret’s Sin ; The Sou. ; Dream
of Love, and a 1 Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, bv Dr. Foote, post free 7s fid.
The Woman of Firs, post 2s. Hypnotism, Is.
Practical Palmistry, post Is 3d. Rosario, 2s.
Mysteries of Court of London, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s pest. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a Picture
Gallery, post 2s. Pauline Clarendon, 2s.
Heptambßon, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted
book, Is ;by post Is 2d. Camille, post Is 3d.
Aristotle, complete, colored plates, 3s 6d posted.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As It Should Ee,
by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d. Sappho, is.
Madam Bovahv, or Loved to the Last, post ->s.
Tricks with Coin's, Is posted.
Speeches and Toasts Ready-Made for all occasions
and lot* et cry body ; public speaking made easy, Is pest.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is ; Dr. Carver’s TRrcks
and Diversions with Carrs, illus., Is ; post Is 2d. 1
Decameron of Boccaccio, only genuine illustrated
edition, post 3s. Letter Writer’Up-to-date, Is posted.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is. The
Art of Wrestling, post 3s. Maria Monk, post Is 9d,
Amativkness, by O. S. Fowler, post free £d.
Modern Etiquette : Parties, Love, Dress; etc., Is pt.
Papa, Mama, and P>aby, by Gustave Dtoz, posted 2s.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is. Nigger Jokes, Is.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is (Id. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aus. Miner’s Guide : Simple Tests for Minerals, 3s (Id.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d. Comrc Reciter, Is.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post Is 2d. How to DanCk, new
work, Is post. Secret History Court of England, 1/3
Ingersoll’s Works, 2s posted. Age of Reason, Is. 3d.
Kelly Gang of Bushrangers, illustrated, Is M,
Australia n Doctor, Is post. Advice to Women,- Is post
Moore’s Universal Assistant & Complete Mechanic,
10s (Id. Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is 3d poet.
On Our New Selection, (5u Sd. Tokology, 7s fid- pest.
Cheat) Rrok Depot,
16 Park St., Sydney.
A Poor Prop.
Asiatic "Ail li . )'* u 170 l? f n l e ,‘ n
"• W(<in, ( f §> lon S
be iio> 7 J
’— -f«»\ you
nor your
wor K, ©i't' .■
. 0
'/p\
m
The daily papers and the average plat-
form orator supply the loose language and
the poetry about the great natural produc-
ing industries of New South Wales ; Cogh-
lau’s just-issued “ Statistical Register,”
part X., dealing with agriculture, supplies
some facts by which the loose language and
the poetry can be audited. If the loose
language and the facts don’t agree, then
the loos® language, even though it rhymes
beautifully, isn’t of much account. The
Foreign-trade papers tell us that this isn't
a manufacturing country. Nature, it says,
has given us broad acres; our business is
to look after them. So, we are told, while
our "lusty” manhood,” pursuing a healthy,
open-air life, supplies the world with raw
materials, the finished article should come
to us from the grimy factory of some older
and more thickly-peopled land, for that is
the obvious plan of Nature. There isn't
any evidence that any such plan really
exists; but Coghlan’s figures allow us to
test, anyhow, whether it would be good
enough to meekly follow it. if it did exist.
The first fact of any eonsemienee that sticks
out is that, whereas in 1882 (the first year
for which the returns are furnished) the
average value of the crop which the man on
the land in N.S. Wales got was £7 4s. sd.
per acre, this year (19C2-3) it averaged only
ill 17s. per acre. The total value of the
State’s agricultural produce in 1882 was
£4,215,268 ; in 1202-3 it . was £4,153,831.
The former was produced from 583,868
acres; the latter from 2,245,839 acres.
Thus it took very nearly four acres in 1203
to (give a return equal to what was given by
one acre in 1882. So, for 22 years of toil,
22 years of tremendous borrowing to de-
velop the " inexhaustible natural resources
of.this great country,” and for the labor
and heart-break of an ever-increasing army
of toilers during the host part of a genera-
tion, there is to show—just this: -
Arthur Griffith (Labor candidate for the
Senate) writes on the tariff question: “I
shall resist with all my might any effort,
to diminish ihe small amount of Protection
which the present tariff provides; to the
Australian workman, because I recognize
that no people can ever become a nation by
living on borrowed money and imported
•shoddy. A dependency that wants to be-
come a nation must not only be seif-govcni-
iugy-rit must also be self-reliant, self-con-
tained, and self-supporting. There are two
Labor Parties in the Commonwealth Par-
liament—one is the Black Labor Party,
headed by Reid, Bruce Smith, and McMil-
lan.” i
Mr. Reid and the Labor Party.
Hostility to the Federal Labor Party is
part of the Reid platform for the Federal
elections, it is a part forced upon him, in
a measure, by his press supporters —the
“ Argus,” the “ Sydney Morning Herald,”
and the “ Argus ’’-ling (or “ Sydney Daily
Telegraph ’’(—dictated in a measure by his
own idea that he can transfer to the Federal
Labor Party the odium of the recent mis-
takes of the N.S.W. State Labor Party. In
this profession of hostility Mr. Reid is just
as sincere as in his cry for Freetrade. He
may say now that he is not able to “abandon
his feeling of bitter hostility and contempt
for the Labor Party ” to gain a thousand of-
fices ; because by saying that he hopes to
catch votes. (After all, there is one beauti-
ful vein of consistency running through the
Reid political mind, and that is the resolu-
tion to try to be top-dog somehow; to which
aim lie sacrifices everything else.) That is
a forecast, the absolute certainty of which
can be easily estnF Ivd by a consideration
vf ,a- little r-f the -A , political history of
last Federal session Mr. Reid’s present
“ contempt and hat ed ” for the Labor Party
is due, he says, to its action in helping the
Australian Government to “ gerrymander ”
the electorates. Without going further back
than that so-tailed ” gerrymander ” inci-
dent, let us see vhat was the attitude of Mr.
Reid to the Lalor Party then—to the party
which had just earned his hostility and
contempt, which had inflicted a wound on
his sense of politic®! probity which wqs at
that moment rankling freshly.
Mr. Reid came back from his great- anti-
gerrymander season -of serio-comic melo-
drama in something of the spirit
of the crushed tragedian who has
ranted his choicest speeches to empty
benches and found an pc-hing void in the
ticket office. But, smarting as he was under
his chagrin, he was quick enough to see
that circumstances had arisen through the
Barton Government’s refusal to include
State railway employees in the scope of the
Arbitration Bill, and through its abandon-
ment of that measure, which brought ofliee
almost within grasp of a man who was will-
ing to do anything for Office. King, ion was
furious, the Labor Pa.ty seething. Count-
ing noses, the Government was in a minority
of six ou the question, provided the Labor
Party followed Reid. That was the ques-
tion. If the Government were defeated, it
might secure a dissolution, and the Bill
would be lost. That would mean that the
various States would have to be polled as
single electorates for the House of Repre-
sentatives as well as for the Senate. The
fact gave the Labor Party pause. It New
South Wales were polled as one electorate
for the House of Reps., it was probable that
a Freetrade bunch, boomed by the daily
papers, would sweep the board; Protec-
tionist members of the Labor Party, such as
Watson and Watkins, would thus loss
their steas. Meanwhile, Mr. Reid was
personally canvassing members of the Se-
nate to induce them to throw the electoral
Bill out, and Mr. Reid’s minions were point-
ing out to th’e Labor Senators, as a reason
for throwing it out, that Queensland would
then be polled as one electorate, and would
probably return all Labor men to t-Ue Se-
nate. Reid’s friends explained that to she
Labor carry the House of Reps’, elections in
Queensland was Reid’s fondest hope. The
position for the Labor Party in the House, of
Representative's was a delicate one. The
Party wished to punish the Government,
but naturally hesitated to incur any chance
of the destruction of its most valuable con-
tingent—the N.-S.W, section. Finally a de-
putation waited upon Mr. Reid, and he pro-
mised that if the Labor Party followed him
to oust the Barton Government, and if, in
consequence, the Electoral Bill was lost, he
would include on his ticket for the House
of Representatives in New South Wales all
the existing Labor Members, whether Free-
traders or Proectioniats. If the Senate had
succumbed to Reid’s cajolery, and rejected
or seriously amended the Electoral Bill,
without a doubt the Barton Government
would have fallen shortly afterwards, and
Mr. Reid and the Labor Party would have
gone to the country as sworn brothers and
allies, just as they used to do,in N.S.W.
Dailey, who is attacking a Freetradb
Stronghold, deserves that a special effort
should be made on liis behalf by National-
ists. Vote for an able, honest man, who
will bring an historic name back to public
life.
* * *
Vote for a Labor man who is a solid Pro-
tectionist if there is one available. If not,
vote for a Protectionist who will follow Mr.
Deakin. The one sure duty is to down My.
Reid, who would destroy Australian indus-
tries and do away with a White Australia..
* *
The effrontery of the Foreign-Trade
Party is conspicuously shown in the Hume
electorate. Mr McLean, who is the Reid-
ite, Foreign-Trade, black-labor candidate
there, represented Lang in the last Federal
Parliament. Why does he not run for his
old seat? Because his chance there would
have been hopeless. But he is thought good
enough to foist on the Hume. Electors
should mark their sense of such tactics hv
ignoring McLean and giving a 10 to 1 ma-
jority to Minister Lyne.
