

McE WAN’S ALE.
WHISKY.
PIG STOUT.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet
Efc. <33-. WATK.IMS «S& CO-,
107 Blent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Saw mill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILD EPS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
M
Send for
Prices and
Particulars.
Descriptive
Catalogues
on
Application.
Most
Up-to-Date
Machines.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YQJMC. X
WONDERFUL VALUE —A packet of Seven different
articles, comprising Yankee Rubber Baby, can be carried
in vest pocket and blown out to life size (causes roars of
laughter), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
Coin and Card Tricks), the Wizard Fish (gives the defini-
tion of your character—very superior for parlor enter-
tainments), the Vest Pocket Tubular Microscope (very
useful for examining small objects), the Cinematograph
(or book of moving pictures), the great Yankee Bicycle
Puzzle (very ingenious), and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Disappearing Coin Trick (instruc-
tions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australia (Free) on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P.O., Haymarket
XIMEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
710 George-st., Sydney.
“ Grand Priac,”
Sawing & Woodworking Machinery,
Vertical & Horizontal Band Mills,
HOLD THE WORLD’S RECORD
Paris, 1900.
(HIGHEST POSSIBLE AWARD.)
SOLE AGENTS
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., ss Pitt street, SYDNEY.
“HERVEY’S RACKAROCK
17 Years' Unbroken Record as a Standard Australian Exp osive. Cor. CLARENCE & KINC STS.,
99
SYDNEY
Estbd. 1831.
WHISKY,
HOBART.
[adleys Orient (jotel.
DUNEDIN, N.Z7
CITY HOTEL
(First Grade).
J. A. TURNER - - Proprietor.
H.M. the King’s
Jury of Experts
awarded them
highest honors
London Exhibi-
tion-
“ The Lancet ”
says : “ Pure and
genuine, and
specially suitable
for Invalids.”
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowici & Sou, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
ii
SPOONER’S
aVi»
•i
fsat
■w
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL. CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning: and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
' arness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
Mining and Dredging Plants. Engines, Boilers, &o.
Fowler Traction Engines.
The Clyde Engineering C°r. Lt
Desiccating Plants.
Hopper Waggons, &c.
Wz
m
PROOF
USE
Head Office:
to BLIGH ST., SYDNEY
N.S.W, Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company,
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUDDY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List,. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7 ;
8-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia. £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
JOs. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
■ription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
'address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE. —Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
■•ent. more for your requirements.
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Red-fern, SYDNEY
OUK SPECIAL >o. 2
£8 18/6
fMirered at any Wharf # r
'.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Men I Why Remain Bald?;
F2RTHIS
I am never tired of asking
you this question because I
know you needn’t remain bald
any longer
CAPILLA
Hair
Tonic
is the remedy, and it’s a
remedy that will produce a
new growth of hair, so long
as there is the slightest down
on the head.
All Chemists = = 2s. 6d. per bottle.
W. OLIVER RICHARDS, Sole Proprietor, and
Inventor, City Bank Chambers, 164 Pitt-street
Sydney, N.S.W. ’
A Policy for the Commonwealth:
A Handy Marfual of Politics. By Jambs
Edmond. Price, 6d. ; post free from The
Bulletin Office, 7d.
The Bulletin
Vol 24.—N0. 1209.]
[Saturday, April 18, 1903.
Registered at the Genera! Post Offioe, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


BOOK trade Advertisement.
THE LATEST BOOKS BY THIS WEEK’S MAIL AT ‘
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Wainemann, By a Finnish Lake, 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Neville (Lord Wm.), Penal Servitude, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Pitman, Business Man’s Guide, 4s, p. 6d.
Norris (Frank), The Pit, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
O a n e s (Bernard), Castle in Spain, 2s (id & 3s 6d, p. 6a.
M'Ohesnev, Cornet Strong of Ireton’s Horse,2s 6d& 3s 6d,
' p (3d ‘ Wyllarde, Story of Eden, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Earle (Mrs. C. W.), A Third Pot-Pourri, 7s 6d, postage 9d.
Morten, Modern Typewriting, 3s, p. 7d.
Mediaeval India, Story of the Nations, ss, p. Bd.
T.P.’s Weekly, Quarterly Division I, Is 6d, p. 6d.
Hume, Coin of King Edward VII, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Boothby (Guy), Connie Burt, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Le Queux, The Seven Secrets, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King Str.) & at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane & London
Hudson’s Eumenthoi Jujubes.
For
COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS of the
THROAT and
LUNGS.
(REGISTERED).
- '
IN TINS, Is. 6d
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and
Prevention of
■CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable for Singers
and Public Speakers.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OR POST FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR,
Cr. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q.
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE ; and FELTON, GRIM WADE A CO., MELBOURNE, AGENTS.
They ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia*
THE RED PAGE.
IN PRAISE OF TOBACCO.
f\F all the good things man has found
Scattered upon this planet round,
Tobacco surely holds its ground, —
A weed delicious:
No other green leaf yields so much
Delight; no flower has fragrance such l
No plant, its virtue with a touch
Of something vicious.
A pipeful after breakfast when
I read the morning paper ; then,
At luncheon one small whiff again, —
A tube of tissue:
And, after dinner, a cigar,
An easy chair beside the jar
Wherein the good Havanas are.
Too close to miss you.
Life is at best a journey brief,
And Time pursues us like a thief.
But if one cultivates the Leaf
There is no hurry.
A friend, it cheers one on the way,
And helps to lengthen out the day,
And keeps the hair from turning gray
With care and worry.
Virginia, Turkish, or Per igue, —
A puff of incense and a streak
Of smoke that almost seems to speak
In sweet aroma!
And may the good Tobacco last
So long as we to life holdfast,
Till Death, the old iconoclast,
Brings his diploma l
F. D. Sherman.
TE GIBUM LAUDAMUS
You ladips, you lean ladies, you sad, lank
ladies who, since the individual will have none of you,
devote yourselves to saving the manly race—listen !
And attention 1 sour apostles, crack-brained fanatics,
sinister assailants of Joy. Have you not buttressed
yourselves for a score of years with the impregnable
humbug of Dr. B. W. Richardson ? Have you not
stifled fleeting qualms of reason with the notion
that The Accursed was an impure stimulant? Have
you not shrieked from platform and pulpit that
Food was Food, and Drink was never food ?. And to-day
your humbug is proven hollow ; your notion is known
nonsense ; and your outcry is merely evil breath. Alcohol
is Food, Food is Alcohol, and you are gibberers of a
fallacy finally exploded.
Ladies and Gentlemen, the Annals of the Pasteur Insti-
tute have settled your small hash. In last December’s
volume you will find the results of a long series of
experiments recorded. Read how Dr. Duclaux, direc-
tor of the Pasteur Institute, proved that guinea-
pigs could be kept alive by injections of alcohol
alone. Then read how Dr. Chauveau, substituting for
the vile body of Dr. Duclaux’s experiment that of man
himself, devised a cage in which an observer could en-
sconce himself, surrounded by thermometers, dyna-
mometers, spirometers, and all the latest apparatus for
testing heat, strength, and energy, and could thus
establish experimentally the effect of different foods upon
his own system.—Lond. Academy of 17 January continues
the story :
The usual American millionaire was found to endow
the scheme, and several such machines were erected in
the laboratory of an American University. In these
three students, trained in observation, two of whom
had been total abstainers from their youth, were shut
up for a considerable period, and were fed on a varied
diet of meat, farinaceous substances, vegetables, sugar,
and water, until something like a normal standard of
nutrition, as evidenced by temperature, energy of grip,
and the like, was attained. Then certain parts of the
meat and sugar ration were withdrawn, and its pre-
sumed equivalent in alcohol was substituted.
The result . . . was to completely upset the confi-
dent assumptions of the total abstinence theory. No
loss whatever of weight, of heat, or strength, followed
the substitution of alcohol for other forms of food. The
experiments were varied, checked, and controlled in
every way possible. The subjects, one of whom was a
Canadian, one an American, and one a Swede, were
made to spend part of their imprisonment in repose,
part in violent gymnastics ; the substitution of alcohol
lor other foods was made sometimes gradually and
sometimes abruptly : but the effect produced remained
always the same.
Alcohol is a food I Ladies and gentlemen, that this food
be not misused, turn your attention to cooking. The
man well-fed is not tempted to drink to excess; but
thousands of men are driven to drunkenness because
their wives cannot or will not prepare food properly.
111-cooked meals, sloppy service, send men straight to
the public-house for a eupeptic draught. Then the
Cause bewails her own Effect! Ladies and gentlemen,
strike at the root; begin your crusade in the kitchen ;
and a sober and alcohol-fearing generation will call you
blessed.
A METHODIST MISTAKE
Items from J. Woolnough’s report to recent
Methodist Conference on the extension of Methodism to
Norfolk Island (Telegraph) :
The natives would supply all the necessaries for the
minister’s table, but they would not be able to supply
Very much money.
This comes first, as of prime importance—the subject of
the minister’s belly in relation to the church members.
Jesus was the Good Shepherd, and three times, with
particular iteration, he enjoined Simon Peter, if truly
loving him, to “Feed my lambs,” “Feed my sheep.”
Nowadays, the church of Jesus exhorts the lambs and
the sheep to “ Feed your shepherds! Feed your
shepherds!”
Norfolk Island was a great place for dancing. In the
old Pitcairn days, the people often finished up a prayer-
meeting with a dance. When he was down there
recently, they were in the fever-heat of public dancing.
Three dances were held in one week, and the people
greatly needed the presence of a minister, and par •
ticularly of a godly woman.
(Italics ours). To restrain the dancing, apparently. The
Methodist kind of religion desires to decrease the Joy of
Life, as normally understood. Yet “the dance is the art
which, Of all the arts, can glory in a past as immemorial
as august. We meet it on the threshold and at the
apogee of all the vanished civilisations, in sanctuaries
and palaces, at the foot of thrones and of idols. The-
ogonies and dynasties have defiled in procession before
it.” David danced before the Lord. The Early Christians
and the Middle Christians danced religiously. Norfolk
Islanders are a primitive folk, and it would do them no
harm to revert to the primitive tradition and dance in
the choir of the church. A discreet religion would
endeavour not to thrust Art and Nature forth, but to
influence them to its uses. Why do our Methodists
deplore the decay of their Sunday-schools ? Why do all
Australian creeds, except the Papist, deplore the decay
of religious observances? Because they try to mould.
Australians to a rigid and unnatural pattern of piety.
The churches will not bend, so they are breaking.
THE HUMOURLESS IRISHMAN
V.J.D. writes anent the humourless Irishman —
It was the Norman who discovered humour in Ireland.
The humour was there before, but it was unconscious.
There is not, in all the wealth of Celtic manuscripts
recently disinterred from monasteries all over Europe, a
single comedy. Even when the Celt was conquering, his
bards sang of disaster and death. The Bird of Gloom
perched always on the Banners. “ They went forth to
the battle, but they always fell.” The true Celt was
imaginative, tragic, mournful in his outlook ; but never
comic. When Angus O’Daley was commanded to write
his famous “ Lament for the Death of Leoghaire,” the
story goes that he retired into the Poet’s Hut—always to
be found adjacent to Irish kings’ palaces in those days—
and put a web stone wrapped in a blanket over his
stomach, in order to send the blood to his brain. That
was his comical way of preparing for a tragic flight ; but
I am sure my ancestor saw nothing to joke about.
Humour comes of contrast. When that crowned idiot,
Richard the Second, received the homage of the Irish
kings in Dublin, his scarlet-breeched, clean-shaven Nor-
man nobles made merry sport and plucked the beards of
the kings. Seven centuries have not wiped out that
affront. It was only when Ireland was crushed by
Plague and Famine, when eight millions of people came
down to four-and-a-half millions, when the grass grew in
the streets and the people ate the grass, that the comic
Irishman appeared upon the stage. It is the old story of
the Spartans and the Helots. You conquer the race, and
then you make it dance for you. And you make a carica-
ture of the race. There is no comic Irishman as a
character in the works of any of the Elizabethan dra-
matists. When the wars were over and Napoleon was
dead, the comic Irishman, with his gorilla-face and long
upper lip, came forth to add to the gaiety of the British
public.
Yet I have met Irishmen of that type. They come
mostly from the Bog of Allen, the back of Connemara,
and the unsheltered spaces of Donegal. They are the
survivors of the old aborigines—the Firbolgs who were in
Ireland before the Milesians came. Wonderful vitality
they have. Some of them, whom I know well, are keep-
ing thriving hotels in Sydney to-day, and some others are
lawyers. But the stolid Saxon does not really under-
stand them, even when to please him they dance break-
downs over the graves of their dead, and show how light
and bright and gay a thing it is to be the head mourner
at a wake. Now, as a matter of fact, I who write have
assisted at Irish wakes. And there was no low comedy
about them. Cold whisky, clean clay pipes, subdued
complimentary references to the deceased. Murmurs
amongst the women and an occasional wirrasthrue. And
if anybody wished to be sprightly irreverent, a friend of
the corpse would ask him to step out and quietly argue
the matter over.
Dickens, the High Priest of English humour, could see
no fun, or wit, or fancy in Irishmen. Odd, but so.
When the late Q. G. Duffy gave Dickens the Irishman’s
description of Nothing as “a footless stocking without
a leg,” Dickens said that people who talked in that way
were an absurd race. Thackeray knew better.
At the same time, it must be said that the highest type
of Irishman is not a humourist. He can see a jojse, but
the joke must be against the other fellow. Touch him
personally, refer with innocent satire to his race or creed,
and 1 would not like to have to be at your funeral.
RECENTLY PUBLISHED
The Story of the Australian Bushmen, by James
Green (Wm. Brooks & Co.) has the value of a regimental
record and little more. The author went to the African
war as a Methodistichaplain to the Bushmen’s Contingent,
and acquitted himself honourably and valiantly. He is
neither observer nor writer, however; and his casual
jottings lack both literary and general interest. The
best thing he has written so far was ' a some-
what naive statement (in S. M. Herald recently)
of the anxiety expressed by military men and others
in India regarding the progeny of Carbine. That
celebrated race-horse, it appears, has showered descen-
dants upon Indian buyers by the score and hundred, and
* even the thousand is within reckoning. And India is
wondering ! Was Carbine an equine Hercules, furnished
with capacities beyond the dreams of maretal avarice ? or
was he immortal ? For the cry is still the Carbines come,
with a price proportioned to their high pedigree ; but
with nothing else of moment. And India weeps the tears
of pedigreed things.
Only two or three passages come to modify judg-
ment. This has local reference :
The vastness of the Bush, with its apparently bound-
less undulations of gum-trees, or plains stretching out
in never-ending perspective, produces .in the mind a
profound melancholy. The Veldt impresses one dif-
ferently. As you look across its vast, treeless dis-
tances, and note the blue-capped kopjes, and pick
out the lines of the spruits, the kloofs and
vleis, as you might in an enormous map—all lying
within your vision in a deep silence, which is only
accentuated by the infrequent barking of the jackals—
a terrible feeling of isolation comes over you. You feel
as if you were the last man left in the world, and that
the appearing stars were looking down in pity at you ;
and you begin to be very sorry for yourself.
To Green then, apparently, the Bush brings no sense of
isolation, but a diffused melancholy lacking a personal
pang.
Green is inclined to contend that the bogus siege of
Mafeking was a substantial military exploit; but at p. 57
we read that, when the Contingent came to Buluwayo—
The pressure in regard to food supply was now
greatly relieved by the arrival of immense quantities of
food from Mafeking. The explanation is that the
authorities there were conserving the food in order to
hold out for another six months.
The interesting illustrations include several drawings by
D. H. Souter.
The Forest Flora of New South Wales, part ii,
by J. H. Maiden (N.S.W. Govt. Printer) describes woolly
butt, red ash, N.S.W. sassafras, and bitter bark (alstonia
constricta). In reference to the last-named Maiden
quotes an interesting paper by J. G. Sharp from The
Pharmaceutical Journal. “ Alstonia constricta bark is
a useful tonic, having some of the advantages of both
Peruvian bark and nux vomica, without many of their
disadvantages. It is particularly useful in influenza.”
And as it is commercially available, Australian doctors
might test and prescribe it generally. There is no sense
in being bound eternally to foreign drugs, when we have
a native drug as efficacious.
A Critical Revision of the Genus Eucalyptus,
Part 1, by J. H. Maiden (N.S.W. Govt. Printer ; 2s. 6 d.)
is another admirable botanical work well begun. It
proceeds on the lines of the same author’s Forest Flora,
and is not too botanical to neglect economic uses. The
want of a running subject-heading to the pages is again
noticeable ; and we have again the needless inconveni-
ence of turning over pages to get the description
ol the illustrations. One sees with pleasure that
“ this protean genua ” is a symbol of the Australian race
even better than was thought. It is very difficult to
Classify the species, so greatly do they vary in character-
istics. And not only do they vary from each other : they
vary in themselves. Maiden illustrates twenty-seven
varieties of the fruit of eucalyptus pilularis alone ; and
the fruit is the best diagnostic feature. This versatility
is commendable. An oak is clearly an oak, and an acorn
always an acorn ; but our eucalyptus declines to run in
grooves of morbid habit: it opens its soul to the influences
of all the suns and winds and climates of our country.
And if you say that the British oak, with the more
permanent characters, is the more enduring tree, we
reply that we deal with the genus, not with individuals ;
and that the oak-r.-ce is decaying, the eucalyptus-race
flourishing. May the Australian nation, like its national
tree, be moulded not to one dead pattern : may it develop
the plastic mind of Greece, the inquisitive spirit of France,
responsive to every ray of progress, every wind of free-
dom. And dwell in a rut never.
The Australasian Nurses’ Journal, No. 1
(Sydney ; W. E. Smith) states the progress of a new trade
union, which now includes nearly every qualified nurse
in N.S. Wales, and many in the other States, Maori-
land, and Fiji. N.S.W. Govt, recognition has been
Obtained “to the extent that the nomination
of no matron or nurse to a hospital receiving
Govt, subsidy is approved unless such matron or nurse
holds a certificate from a hospital recognised as a training
school by the Association and is entitled to become a
member thereof.” The feature of the number is a report
of an admirable lecture pn dietetics by A. E. Mills,
M. 8., who quotes, as to what may be called the beef-tea
fallacy, somebody’s statement that “ all the bloodshed
caused by the warlike ambition of Napoleon is as nothing
compared to the myriads of persons who Have sunk into
their graves from a misplaced confidence in the food
value of beef-tea.”
Henry Irving, a
Record and Review,
by Charles Hiatt
(Bell ; 2s. 6 d.), is
decorated with por-
traits and illustra-
tions which by them-
selves are worth
more than the money
asked for the book.
The actor’s life and
career are described
with the fullest de-
tails and documents.
The “ head,” shown
herewith is repro-
duced from the fine
portrait by Millais.
Poems, by Mary
E. Richmond (Elkin
Mathews) are writ-
ten by a lady who
“ hails from Wel-
lington,” Maoriland.
They consist of care-
fully -rhymed commonplaces, destitute of force or sig-
nificance.
The Light Behind, by Mrs. Wilfrid Ward (John
Lane ; 2s. (id.) may be added to The Circle as a novel
unusual, and worth reading. Mrs. Ward’s mother was
Victoria Howard, daughter of the fourteenth l>uke of
Norfolk ; and her book is occupied with the deeds and
aspirations of English R.C. society—that “society ” which
flourishes beside the, “ smart set ’’ as a thing shadowed
and aloof, never altogether mingling, possibly too fine
and aristocratic to mingle. The story has a deep religious
tinge, but natural, in no way aggressive. Henry Dacre, a
student for the priesthood, feels that he is “ not,called,”
and is ambitious to re-establish the Catholic influence
upon English politics. He is fascinated by Lady Cheri-
ton, who is married to a scandalous husband, and gives
him affection and patronage. Full of youthful glows
and fevers, youthfully unstable, Dacre engages himself to
marry Lady Anne Massingham, a fine flower of conscien-
tious Catholic womanhood. But it is Lady Cheriton who
captures his senses, and the story evades an unhallowed
Dacre-Cheriton crisis by the death of the lidy. Then
Dacre, strengthened by experience, purified by grief,
returns to Lady Anne. The book is not brilliant ; but it
gives new lights, fresh suggestions, and makes a strong,
sincere impression.
The Eng. “historical novel ” lias fallen into the
hands of a multitude of third-rate writers, ,on both sides
of the Atlantic, who have found that the gross public
will read a story essentially uninteresting, if it merely be
dated some centuries back, written in pseudo-archaic jar-
gon, and sprinkled liberally with “ ’S death ! ” or “ By
my halidom ! ” The illusion is the same as that which
makes a dull ball in costume more attractive than a dull
ball in ordinary attire: “the dressing-up” is piquant.
Cornet Strong of Ireton’s Horse, by Dora G. McChesney
(John Lane ; 2s. 6 d.) is in style and value above the cur-
rent average; but the eight pages of illustration by
Greiffenhagen are by far the most attractive pages in the
book. After one has tfeen wearied by Stanley Wood and
his class, Greiffenhagen’s distinction of idea arid technique
is a Boon.
A Woman’s Wanderings Luring the Boer War,
by “ Mrs. General De La Rey ” (Unwin ; 2s. (id. ) amounts
to little more than a recital of Mrs. De La' Rey’s per-
sonal grievances and sorrows. These were doubtless
great; but the pathetic appeal is lost usually in bald
detail, or disfigured by the somewhat querulous complaint
of the natural woman. Only when tffe note of high sim-
plicity is,struck, as in the pages relating the death and
burial of a son, is the story really impressive.
QUERIES
W.M. : The “Taff Vale decision” by Eng.
House of Lords amounts to this: that a trade-union is a.
corporate body qualified to sue and be sued, and that its
funds can be attached in payment of damages for illegal
acts committed by its officials. Hence it results that
the strike as an offensive weapon is made fruitless, since
as soon as there is overt interference with an employer or
his non-union labourers, the union and its members
become civilly and criminally responsible.
Nahrung : We find the following quoted as the fastest
miles on record :—Locomotive (No. 5,929 ; American)
32 - 9 secs. ; Automobile (Fournier’s) 51 ‘8 secs.; Bicycle
(Fred Chase) 69"4 secs.; Horse, 95"5 secs.; Steamship
(Deutschland), 120 secs. ; Pedestrian (Carruthers running
round with news of Tam worth election) 184 - 7 secs.
NOTABILIA
In March Munsey’s Maga. (hats off !) Frank A.
Mu use y (salute !), proprietor of N.Y. Daily News,
Boston Journal', and Washington Post (kneel, bump your
head on the floor three times, and Jiail Columbia)
discusses the future of journalism. Munsey is a clever,
energetic fellow with a streak of mountebank. Half of
him stands for hard wit, one-third for hard work, and
the remainder for the adage Populus vult decipi,
decipiatur ! (His rivals might vary the proportion, but
at this distance we can afford to be charitable.) Munsey
prints his own rhodomontade monthly in his own maga-
zine ; but this month he is more sensible than usual : he
agrees with us. He calls for blood and iron in journalism :
red corpuscles and condensation. He says, Cling to
your pen : if you type or dictate your matter loses force,
like Stead’s. He declares “ A newspaper staff must be
created mainly from young men. Money cannot buy it.
It cannot be transplanted. It must be a work of training
and development.” And he forecasts (Lift up your
heads, 0 ye reps !) an era of higher salaries f and be ye lift
up, ye everlasting subs !) for journalists (and the King of
glory shall come in!) Now we have only to say to Mun-
sey what a man once said to Mackay when he sang
“ There’s a good time coming, boys !” - could n’t you
fix a date ?
Woman is either bovine, feline, or divine. —
The Criterion. Why not all together? the rule of
three does puzzle m e.—Bookfellow. Solvitur ambu-
lando: vera incessu patuit dea, as Virgil has it.—
Butler. Et noctambulando. From remote antiquity
Nox is of the feminine gender : especially with Horatius.
—Tucker. Et perambulando, assuredly: see birth
statistics. — Coghlan.
T. F. Unwin, London publisher for Becke and
other Australians, has a new house-mark—Eden’s
serpent coiled round the tree., Egregious
symbol! The tree, of course, represents Literature ; and
the serpent is the Publisher who bites the Author when
he tries to pluck the fruit.
A new volume of the English translation of
Nietzsche is issued— The Dawn of Day. At 8s 6d net
the price is too B&h : we do not need expensive paner
and binding and large type liberally spaced ; the French
get Nietzsche at 3s. per volume, and so should
we. Nietzsche is always stimulating—a vital spart
of thought; but when you have assimilated hi,
cardinal doctrines he has done his best for von
In translation you lose the rhetorical flash the
poetical phrase ; but the philosophical gist re
mams. One would not have philosophy bald and un"
decorated : let it feather its arrows to fly • but the thin»
essential is that the arrows should be pointed and
directed well. Many of Nietzsche’s shafts fly wide of
the mark. The fftamwho wishes to reach Beyond-Man must
conserve himself instead of spending. Let him educate
brain and body, preserving due balance between con
ceptions that exalt and weary and sensations that wearv
and gratify : then he will shine like the sun, by force of
inner heat, in so far as he has heat. And he will transmit
to his children a better chance. Ideas are seed that need
earth to grow in. Not in books or sermons or prophecies
but in the marriage-bed, must the Man-Beyond-Man ba
begotten.
The Art Society exhibits; Hector Lister flames
in the forefront of the battle ; and see Achilles Ashton in
his gloomy tent! For a pergonal impression, take this •
when in the crowd of little canvases, some of them
rammed into second-hand frames and third-hand mount,
ings, you look round for the chord of distinction as
opposed to the harmony of humdrum, you find it in two
pictures chiefly or solely : “ Early Morning, Spring ” bv
Arthur Williams; “ A Summer Evening,” by Arthur
Williams. *
N. Graves B. Jefferson, representing the Aus-
tralian Art Association, supplies details of the painting
of Tom Roberts’s picture of the Opening of the Common
wealth Parliament When the idea of obtaining a record
of the event was mooted, J. C. Waite offered to under
take the work for i? 400. When Waite abandoned the idea"
Roberts offered to undertake the work for 650 gs. His
terms were accepted ; but after three months work on a
canvas Bft. by sft. he recognised that he could not do
justice to his subject in such a space, though it was a size
which he himself suggested. Apart from this,.his eves
began to fail him. ' J
It was then suggested to Roberts that he should
abandon the small canvas and recommence on the exist-
ing one—l7ft. by 10ft. He named 1000 guineas as the
price of the new picture, and his offer was accepted
without demur, except that it was suggested to him that
he might take a lower fee anil a royalty on all reproduc-
tions. This proposition he declined. A studio was
obtained for him ; furniture ; and an attendant has been
constantly at his disposal, arranging sittings. It was
also arranged that Roberts should work four days a week
on the picture, and have a free hand to do what private
commissions he liked in the studio. When leaving for
London recently, Roberts suggested that he should be
allowed £5O towards fixing up his studio in London (rent
of which is, of course, to be paid by the Association); and
this was acceded to. The position is, therefore, some-
what thusßoberts receives a fee of £llOO for about
two years w r ork, during which period he will have also
supplemented his incoiiie by the execution of private
commissions. His studio was furnished and rent paid, by
his commissioners, who also paid all travelling expenses
on inter-State trips. An attendant was supplied to
arrange sittings.
N. Graves B. Jefferson adds:—“Roberts has been
brought closely into touch with the Royal Family and
the whole of the representative men of Australia and of
foreign countries: Under all these circumstances, it is
doubtful whether Tom Roberts will ever have to look
back, and good luck to him ! I don’t fail to recognise that
the sheer merit of his work will make him famous.
Undoubtedly, as far as the commissioners are concerned,
there is a commercial aspect to the production of
Roberts’s great work. At the same time, their patriotism
may 7 at least be valued at A 53000, the actual cost of giving
the nation this historical record, and their treatment of
the artist is claimed to be—well, fair.
Kodak : Not much in it... Puck : L.B. : Pre-
sently. ..J.A.C. : Comment on comment on comment-
write more directly. ..J.I.H. : Impracticable at present.
Apply to schemes of Aust. drought relief and
unemployed relief the conclusions of a worker among
Lond. unemployed : “ Charity 7 expended as it is now is
doing no permanent good. It gets to the wrong class,
and while it lasts it just helps them over the stile for a
time. What is wanted by the nation is
“ Not help for a month, a week, a day,
But the work that will mean self-help alway.’
It must not be thought (says St. Janes’s
Gazette) that Resurrection, as played by Beerbohm
Tree, is a poor thing, even though it is Tolstoy and water.
On the contrary, it is a stirring romantic melodrama,
put on the stage with an exquisite elaboration, and giving
opportunities for acting that is both powerful and moving.
It will also, if one may prophesy, appeal in many ways to
English playgoers, who will find their secret taste for
what is morbid gratified to the full, their emotions played
upon like concertinas, and their strict sense of morality
delighted by the contemplation of the depths of vice in
which another country is apparently plunged.
A quaint fact about Resurrection, pointing
Merejkowski’s criticism of the Pagan-Christian author, is
that the story was written to help the persecuted Douk-
hobors. But when the Eng. translator forwarded a
cheque for £l5O to the Doukhobors’ committee in Canada
it was returned with thanks, on the ground that the
story was immoral —the greatest impression was made
upon the reader by the lascivious scenes, not by the
rake’s reformation.
Correction: A better authority says the pro-
mised biography of W. W. Story is not by Henry James,
but by Henry James J. Story, the sculptor’s sculptor-
brother.
Some ‘ ‘ favourite quotations ”
All is lost save dishonour. — John See.
Je prends mon bien ou je le trouve.— C. C. Kingston.
Customs, more honoured in the breach than the obser-
vance.—Robert Reid.
O death, where is thy propsting ? O grave, where is
thy victory ?— Elliott Lewis.
Sister Anne, Sister Anne, do you see anybody coming
with a portfolio?— James Ashton, Man of Conscience.
[Achillem]
Impiger, iracundus, ine.xorabilis, acer,
Jura neget sibi nata, nihil non arroget armis.
—Julian Ashton, Man of Pamt.
The Assumption Independent is a newspaper in
America. The Assumption Independent is a newspaper
in trouble. The Assumption Independent declared tnac
the Bible was notread in American households ; that a
ought to be read ; and that it would be read if a chapt
were printed dailv along with the personal paragraphs
and the police reports. So The Assumption Independent
started to reprint the Bible. Sensation ! The Asm p-
tion Independent got well into Genesis. Scandal .
police grew uneasy, they grew restive, Anally they g
determined. They called round and told Ihe Asswrnp
Independent that this publication of “ mprojw
ture ” must stop. And the circulation of
Independent was leaping up by hundreds a day .
north and eastward on a clear night, and you may s
gigantic note of interrogation flaming across the a
can sky. That is The Assumption Independent. g


WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, and CO., Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN
S YDNE Y.
Send your_—^
HIDES
SHEEPSKINS
TALLOW
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
SYDNEY.
The Leading Salesmen. Full Values and Quick Returns-
The Go-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMONT.
g 0 le Commission 3 lE*ex* Cent, to tb.e Grower
on Large artel Small A.ccou.nts Alike.
S. FREEMAN * SONS L!3^2
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WYNYABD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Afiections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDSI
MAGNESIA,
NEITHER CRACK
NOR BURN.
/
a®
5806
CBB
6807
saoa
SHILLING BRIAR PIPES
QUALITY NOT BETTER
IN A GUINEA PIPE. . .
GUARANTEE.—ShouId any of our Celabrated CAN’T-B-BEAT Briar Pipes Crack or Bara •
New One will be Exchanged for it Immediately on Application. .
Sold by all Tobacconists. By Post, Is. 2d.
Quality not better in a Guinea Pipe.
.
m
S
m
siw
m
-r*-
tern
■
sh^-SA
Dark and
Bright
IS THE BEST.
Price, ss. lb., Post Free, all States.
A Perfect Pipe Tobacco.
HAVING secured the Sole Agency for the
above brand of AMERICAN TOBACCO, we
have very much pleasure in recommending
same to our Clients and the Smoking Public.
“ SOLID SHOT ” TOBACCO, Splendid Aroma,
does not bite the tongue. With the ordinary
smoker this Tobacco is in great demand.
Save “Solid Shot” Tobacco Tags.
For Each 100 you will receive from the
Agents, free, one only C. 8.8. Briar
Pipe and Pocket Knife.
Sole Agent for C. 8.8. Briar Pipes. *
Send for Whole sale Price Lists.
“Arkansas” fixture
A Blend of the very highest grade Tobaccos.
Packed in |lb. Tins, 7s. 6d. lb.
Sample |lb. Tins, 25., post free.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney, n.s.w.
dr. McLaughlin co.,
85 King-street, Sydney,
167 E Swanston-st., Melbourne.
Do You Want to be STRONG?
Then stop filling your stomach with nasty drugs that stimulate you for the time only and leave you worse off
than ever Use Nature’s Remedy, but be sure that you don’t use drugs with it. ELECTRICITY and DRUGS
is the OBSOLETE and EXPENSIVE METHOD; you are charged from 20 TO 50 GUINEAS FOR THE
DRUG AUXILIARY, and have uselessly wasted your money. If you are weak, you must get back what
you have lost. Electricity adds fuel to your system, strengthens the nerves, brain and blood. There is only
one effective way to get it.
DR. MCLAUGHLIN'S ELECTRIC BELT
gives it to you while you sleep. It pumps new nerve force, new energy, new ambition, new life, into your every
tissue, and cures in three months after the failure of all other methods. It is cheap, effective, certain, and you can
not afford to do without it. We are the only Specialists who use only Electricity, and do not sell Belts as so much
scrap-iron. £lOOO REWARD if you can not feel and regulate the current from our Belt.
Lucinda-street, Woolloongabba, Brisbane.
Dear Sirs,—Just a few lines to let you know I am much
better, and that I have had great relief from your Electric
Belt. I will be glad to recommend it to any of my friends.
The pains have left my back, and my nerves are a lot steadier.
I now do my work with pleasure.
I remain, yours faithfully,
Ed. BEK NETT.
Angel Terrace, Coolgardie, W.A.
Dear Sirs, —I got your Belt after all the doctors had given
me up —after all the hospitals had passed me as an incurable.
I had Sciatica so bad th*t I could neither work nor walk. I
wore the Belt two nighfs and the pain stopped. In a week I
had no pain and began to mend. In a month I was out again
prospecting, and I v«uld like to meet a man more grateful to
you than 1 am. I4u»t think I ever will. P. W. KELLY.
FREE BOOK.— Write and get our free book ; it is beautifully illustrated, and shows how our Belt cures,
without using drugs. Our testimonials come from every part of Australia, and you should doubt no longer. Wh
WILL NOT SELL YOU A BELT UNLESS WE CAN CURE YOU. Book sent, post paid, to any address.
DUTY PAID ON ALL BELTS. Write or call to-day for Free Consultation and Advice.
A NEW BROWNIE KODAK
9 For Pictures 2£ x 3£ Inches.
0
TS
KODAK
Limited,
And of all Photographic Dealers.
The No. 2
BROWNIE
KODAK. .
Ptdee lO /ss only
LOADED AND UNLOADED IN DAYLIGHT.
Send for Illustrated and Descriptive
Leaflet and mention this paper.
284 COLLINS STREET,
... MELBOURNE.
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300 pages,
price, 4s. 6d.; postage, 6d.
STATE EXPRESS Cigarettes.
Made from the
FINEST
VIRGINIAN
TOBACCOS
HAND MADE,
FREE FROM DUST,
HARMLESS to the
THROAT.
quwjiiPvK
Hat>d
:.7.
“MY DARLING*
“ASTORIA,”
“QUO VADIS,”
“
NO. 999,
NO. 555.
UNEQUALLED
for
FLAVOR and
AROMA
MANUFACTURED BY THE ARDATH TOBACCO CO., LONDON.


SMOKE
The Unrivalled
World Renownec
BRIAR
PIPES
LARGEST DEPOT:
231 Clarence St,
SYDNEY.
The Best Thing
on Wheels*
as Oldsmohile
has demonstrated its ability to travel rough roads smoothly in all
kinds of weather. In a long distance endurance run between New
York and Boston in America —500 miles—the Oldsmobile was the
only machine in the 1,000 lbs. and under class to make tne run
without a penalized stop, winning the highest award.
This runabout sells for at factory in America
and the freight is not large.
Starts at will from seat and is under instant control of the
operator. The cheapest reliable.
automobile made. s> ooo * n use>
Write for free catalogue.
Agents :
<V. A- RYAN & CO., LTD., Auckland.
Oitis Motor Works 9
Detroit, Mich*, U.S.Am
The Bulletin's Popular Publications*
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Tfifth Thousand. Cloth, 4s. 6d. ; postage, 6d.
THE BULLETIN RECITER
By Eighty Bulletin Writers. Sixth Thousand. Cloth, Illustrated, ss. ; postage, 4d.
ON OUR SELECTION
By A. H. Davis (“ Steele Rudd ”). Twelfth Thousand. Cloth, Illustrated, 65. ; postage, Bd.
CASTRO’S LAST SACRAHENT
And Other Stories, by Albert Dorkington. Second Thousand. Cloth, 4s. 6d. ; postage, 7d.
Obtainable from all Booksellers, or from the Publishers —
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Ltd., 214 Qeorge-St , Sydney, Australia
DOOK of nature and illustrated
D MARRIAGE GUIDE, 50 engravings, 3/6 ;
posted, 4/-. Howto Mesmerise, 1/-; Magic
Up-to-Date, 1/3 ; Metal Working, solder-
ing, brazing, 1/6; Camille, 1/3 ; How to
Play Billiards, 1/3; How to Vamp, 13;
Piano Tuning and Repairing, 1/6 ; Modern
Etiquette, 1/-; Card Games, 1/-; Great
Book of Wonders, Secrets and Mysteries,
1/-: Poultry Keeping, 1/- ; Horse and
Cattle Doctor, 1/-; Parlor Magic, 1/ ;
Dream Book, 1/-; Every Man His Own
Builder, 1 6 ; Carpentry, 1/6 ; Lightning
Calculator, 1/2 ; Australian Doctor, 1/6 ;
Letter Writer, 1/3 ; Speeches and Toasts,
1/3 ; Kelly Gang of Bushrangers, 1/3 ;
Book op Dialogues, 1/-; Enquirer’s Oracle,
3000 subjects, 1,6 ; Self Instructor, 13;
c
V
How TO Dance, 1/3 ; Art of Boxing, 1/3 ;
Art of Wrestling, 1/3; Moll Flanders,
1/6; Tailoring for Amateurs, 1/3 ; Ven-
triloquism, 1/- ; Comic Reciter, 150 gems,
13; Irish Comic Reciter, 1/3; Little
Folks’ Reciter, 1/3; Nigger Stump
Speeches, 1/3; New Tricks with Cards,
1/3; That Rascal Gustave, 1/3 ; Plain
Home Talk, 7/6; Sappho (genuine), 1/6;
Fortune Telling Cards, directions, 1/6;
Advice to Women, 1/3; Midwives’ Hand-
book, 92 practical illustrations (better than
Aristotle), 3/-; Palmistry, chart and guide,
6d. ; Clog Dancing, 1-. Above prices in-
clude postage to any address. Stamps or
Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
Catalogues—Plays, Conjuring Apparatus,
Racy Novels, Useful Books, Private Books
for the Married, etc.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK AND MAGIC
ARCADE, -
201 Bourke-st., Melbourne,
MMlilaiMVil
AERTEX CELLULAR FABRIC
is the ideal form of body covering, possessing all the neces-
sary hygienic qualities, and being also most comfortable and
of attractive appearance, and for those reasons is recom-
mended by the Medical Faculty wherever introduced.
Aertcx Cellular Underwear is a Sure Preventative against Chills
AERTEX
Cellular Day Shirts.
Silk neckbands and soft wrists.
White and Self Colors, 4s to 7s 6d
Fancy Designs, 7s 6d to 9s 6d.
Neglige Shirts.
Soft fronts of plain or pleated
Cellular Cloth; wrists, French
Print, Linen, or Cellular. Recom-
mended for Golf, Cycling, &c.
White body, 7s 6d ; colored, 8s 9d
AERTEX
Cellular Dress Shirt.
Fitted best Belfast Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 0.8. or 0.F., one stud.
Cellular Cotton Body, 6s 6d to 8s 6d
Cellular Lisle Body, 9s 6d & 10s 6d
Short-Front Shirt
for every-day wear.
0.8., 2in. linen wrists, 5s 6d, 6s 6d
O.F. or 0.8., square cuffs—
-6s 6d, 79 6d
AERTEX
Cellular Combinations,
High or Low Necks.
s. d.
White Cotton, trimmed
Lace 5 6
White Cotton, trimmed
Embroidery .. ..76
White Cotton, trimmed
Lace .. .. ..96
White Lisle, trimmed Em-
broidery .. .. .. 10 6
AERTEX
Cellular Nightdresses.
White Cotton, trimmed
Embroidery .. ..90
White Lisle, trimmed Em-
broidery 20 0
White Lisle, prettily
trimmed, fine Torchon.. 19 o
m
t: m
Aertex Cellular Chemises. Bs. hit White Lisle, heavily trimmed
Real Torchon, 14s 6d and 16s 6d. '
Aertex Cellular Slip-Bodices. toioin r ; ia°r)?e B izes%xtra. 81
White Lisle, trimmed Torchon, 6s 6d and 8s 6d.
Send for Illustrated Price List—Post Free.
DAVID BRAHAM & GO.,
73 & 75 King-St., Sydney.
Sole Agents.
Aertex Cellular Tennis.
With Collar and Pocket. Themost
comfortable for all out-door sports
of all kinds. A great variety of
patterns stocked.
Plain Colors, 4s. 6d. to 7s. 6d.
Fancy Designs, 7s. 6d. to 11s. 6d.
m
Bs»i
mm
m
m.
G. Shape.
Aertex Cellular Corsets.
Fitted real Greenland Whalebone.
s. d.
Cl Ecru 13in. deep ... ..15 6
C 2 ~ long waist, l4£in deep 16 6
M White Cotton, 14in., nar-
row spoon busk .. .. 21 0
G White Cotton, 14Mn., with
Elastic Supporter .. 24 6
F Ecru, Riding or Cycling.. 12 6
Y Cycling, Boned French
Horn, Elastic Hips .. 16 0
D 1 same shape as Cl, Watch-
spring Steels .. ..86
1
There’s SECURITY in
V Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
iFURRED TONGUE.
I
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
«se|
mmm
?* PI
PILLS
They TOUGH the
Be
LIVER
Sure they are
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
Carter’s
TATTE RS ALL’S
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The Tasmanian Government having imposed a tax of One Penny
on every Five Shilling Ticket issued by Tattersall’s on and after Ist
January, 1903, clients will please forward Id. extra for each ss.
ticket applied for, or 4d. for every .£l, and so on.
ADELAIDE CUP—
Morphettville, S.A., May 13 ...25,000 at 5/1
PRINCE OF WALES STAKES—
Randwick, N.SW., June 3 ...50,000 at 5/1
GRAND NATIONAL HURDLE RACE, Flemington, Vic., July 4 100,000 at 5/1.
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS ( IAI 1 IvRSALL ) S 1 ILL
CONTINUES his business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend or
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the application and
securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to clients.
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE
ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing will please request
Bank to advise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PARCEL
DELIVERY CO. doing business with Tasmania.


■Kk V
c-
•Sr
The re is this
peculiar thing
about our Hair
| Vigor : it’s a hair-
food, not a dye.
It doesn’t turn
your hair sud-
denly black and
make it look dead
and lifeless. But
gradually the old
color comes back,
all the rich color it
used to have. And
it also stops falling
of the hair.
Even if your hair
isn’t coming out,
isn’t turning gray,
isn’t too short,
yet you certainly
want a fine dress-
ing for it, and here
it is.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
It keeps the scalp clean and healthy,
removes all dandruff, makes the hair
grow rapidly, prevents it from falling
out, and does not allow a single gray
hair to appear.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Make sure that you get the genuine
Ayer’s Hair Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
W. H.Wigzell.
FRINGES : Best Natural Curly
Hair, 3/6, 5 6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each.
TAILS and PLAITS : 20in. lons’,
5/6 ; extra thick, 7/6; 24in., 10/6;
extra thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings worked up,
2/6 per oz. Don’t be misled.
Our Plaits and Tails are twice as
thick as sold elsewhere at the
same price. Send color of Hair.
Only one address : 110 WILLIASVT-
ST., cor. of Palmer St. SYDNEY.
Cable trams will stop at door. All work guaranteed.
Illustrated Catalogue post free. Prompt attention given
to country orders. Wigs made on shortest notice. All
Hainvork sent to the other States free of duty. Transfor
mations, entire covering for the head, 30/- each.
Given
away
THIS MONTH
...t0...
Advertise our
Ostrich
Tips.
Write To-Day.
Send
Postal Note.
2/6
The Bunch
Post Free
3 Black Tips with Osprey 9. A Marvel of Cheapness.
Miller’s Feather Shop,
Corner Bourke and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.
Mention The Bulletin.
I
FLUID
OIL
CRUDE FLUID
POWDER
EMBROCATION
80AP8
OIBINFEOTORB
INHALER 3
FUMIQATORB
ANITA
lISINFECTINS
FLUID.
COLORLESS
FRACRANT
NON*
POISONOUS
DOES NOT
STAIN
KILLS ALL
DISEASE
GERMS
OXYGENATES
THE AIR.
Sulphur Candles - \
Formic Fumigators /
KINGZETT’S
PATENTS.
“HOW TO DISINFECT ” Book Free.
The “SANITAS ” CO., Ltd.,
Bethnal Green, LONDON, E;
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has curef
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when ever;
other remedy has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11 -
Thousands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc
Wholesale Agents :
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
25 High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
The beef remedy
INFLUENZA, *
COUGHS,
COLDS,
BRONCHITIS.
ASTHMA
Ask for Barm ing ton’s
and seethabyou get it
1
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 10a,
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
£2T Send for a
Catalogue.
Went Shaft Sulkies.
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE tc
buyers of Light Vehicles.
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, i3o Sussex St., Sydney
Straight Sha-ft 3-Spring Sulkies, £8 10s.
Sarven Sulky Wheels Tyred, £2 4s 6d pair.
Discount to Wholesale Buyers. Send for Catalogue.
21/-
2i;-
: J
HOST MARVELLOUS VALUE
A SOLID SILVER KEYLESS
Hunting Watch*
Heavy Case, Sound Movement,
Perfect Timekeeper
GUARANTEED FOR TWO YEARS.
21J-
Posted Duty Free to any part of Australia.
Send for my New Illustrated Catalogue.
QUEENSLAND LEADING JEWELLER
H, F. SMITH,
Queen Street, Brisbane
and at IPSWICH and TOOWOOMBA.
WINCHESTER
METALLIC CARTRIDGES.
URING our 30 years of gun making, we have
discovered many things about ammunition that
no one could learn in any other way. Our
discoveries in this line, together with years of
, experience manufacturing ammunition, enable us
to embody many fine points in Winchester
Metallic Cartridges for rifles and revolvers which make them
superior in many ways to all other brands upon the market.
Winchester cartridges in all calibers are accurate, sure-fire
and exact in size; being made and loaded in a modern
manner by skilled experts. If you want the best
INSIST UPON HAVING WINCHESTER MAKE OF CARTRIDGES.
WE STOCK ALL ....
WINCHESTER GOODS.
M‘LEAN BROS. & RIGG, Ltd.
ELIZABETH STREET, fIELBOURNE.
GOOD HA.IR FOIE*. ALL!
*
c/i
All Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustra
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRYIT. If it ia
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., sa. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
SS- For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NAT UR ALINE.
S3~ For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d. ; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington H. Soul & Co.,
Pitt-streefc, Sydney.
CONSULT HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by WATKINS & MAOKAY, Chemists, Queen Street, Brisbane ; Mr. GORDON, 92 George
Street, Rockhampton, Queensland, and
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 ColUns-street, MELBOURNE*
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I’O DEFY COMFETITIOIV.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, fee.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
How Long?
Ihe spirit of fire breathed forth his ire,
And a thousand sheep lay slain ;
He quenched the sky with his torrid eye,
And swallowed the fruitful rain.
Come out, come out, to the angry drought,
You eaters of easy bread 1
Where the blackened wheat gives nought to eat,
And dry is the river-bed.
And they cry, “Oh, Earth ! bring forth thy life ! "
And the Earth brings forth her dead.
Have you not hearts, you city-folks ?
Have you not eyes to see ?
Fair are your wives, and you cherish their live*,
And kiss the child at your knee.
What of the breast where the fever pest
Has denied the motherly milk ?
Of the wife who drags her beggarly rags,
While you flaunt your satin and silk.?
How plump and sleek you drive each week
To offer your Pharisee prayer,
And thank your God that you have not trod
In the sinner’s thoroughfare.
Here is your walk, where the drought-fiends stalk
O’er the souls of your brother men,
Where red suns rise in the waterless skies
And sink and rise again.
They have given their best, these sons of the West ;
They have battled with fire and flood ;
God’s children they, if a common clay,
And one with your bones and blood.
Oh, Lord ! how long wilt thou suffer wrong,
And watch men turn to dust,
While the city-fed eat foreign bread ?
Is it just, O Lord? is it just?
They weep, they weep, ’mid bleaching sheep,
They parch in the pitiless light;
They weep, they weep ! They cannot sleep
For the stifling breath of night.
Beauty and Strength have stretched their length,
Hard-yielding to despair.
So, eat your bread, you city-fed,
And laugh—for what do you care ?
The Spirit of Fire breathed forth his ire,
And a thousand sheep lay slain ;
He quenched the sky with his torrid eye,
And swallowed the fruitful rain.
Come out, come out to the angry drought,
Ye eaters of easy bread !
Where the blackened wheat gives nought to eat,
And dry is the river-bed.
And they cry, “ O Earth ! bring forth thy life ! ”
And the Earth brings forth her dead.
N.S.W.
C. HOLDSWORTH ALLEN.
The Falls—Floodtime.
Over the grey rocks wildly dashing,
Onward the foaming cascade rolls,
Over the grey rocks reeling, flashing,
Whirlpools wheeling and vainly lashing
Stubborn boulders in stormy shoals.
Torrents, clamorous, thunder-ringing,
Tumble and revel and sweep and play;
Reckless choruses storm-song singing,
Wheeling, rolling and upward flinging
Crystal jewels and silver spray.
Down to the deep pool darkly seething
Follow the torrents in fierce unrest;
Under the clouds of their misty breathing,
White foam-flowers the whirlpools wreathing
Foam flakes gathering crest on crest.
Strife and struggle! . . . the strong sun glowing
Traces a prism from rock to tree,
Blending colors in bright floods flowing—
A rainbow light like a Wisdom throwing
Its rays of hope o’er adversity.
VIC.
M. O’M.
The Sun in the Desert.
The Sun is born in the Desert,
From the murky East he springs ;
The Spirit of the Desert
His praise and welcome sings.
The Sun lives in the Desert,
He reigns as a monarch there ;
The peaks of the distant mountains
Seem phantasies of air.
The Sun dies in the L' esert,
His life-blood stains the air
Just as the shame-flush reddens
The brow of a maiden fair.
The Sun dies in the Desert,
And the distant hills outstand
Like the castles fair and pinnacles
Of some far Promised Land.
The Sun is dead in the Desert,
And the Moon is overhead.
On a silver throne o’er a world of peace
She reigns there in his stead.
PIEGANL
The cost of getting an additional knot on
of high-speed vessels is startling. To get thei
25 knots (only one knot more than the speed o-
the Norddeutscher Lloyd ship Kaiser Wilhelm)
the new Cunarders will have a coal bill pe
cent, greater than that of the German vessel
while the number of firemen will be nearly doubled
“His Excellency the Governor.” Ne\
Hampshire (U.S.) is engaged in striking ou
‘His Excellency” and similar phrases. “M:
President” is sufficient title for the head of Ih>
'tates, and New Hampshire desires uniformity
It is somewhat peculiar that “ His E ccellenoy '
acids good for Governors in almost ail the Sta'u
1 of the. Union.


QWING TO INCREASED DEMAND FOR THE
HIGHEST CLASS OF SCOTCH WHISKY
THE PROPRIETORS ARE NOW PLACING ON THIS MARKET THEIR
“EXTRA SPECIAL’’ QUALITY
FOUR REP CROWN WHISKY,
OLD AND MELLOW,
the same as supplied under ROYAL WARRANT, and sold largely in Great Britain.
IN BULK AND BOTTLE. From all Hotels ana Spirit Merchants.
♦
Wholesale Agent, NORMAN SHELLEY, YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
A Lesson Worth Learning
Hsepatitis and Dyspeptic Misery.
“A BLESSING TO WORK & LIVE.”
Tho Case of
Mrs. B. EAGAR.
(Fob the Bed fern Times.)
It is impossible to read the following
statement of the condition of things de-
scribed by Mrs. Bertha Eagar, of No. 145
Walker-street, Redfern, without being
struck by certain phases and facts in her re-
cital. Carrying her memory back eleven
years, Mrs. Eagar said :
“ It is that length of time since I was re-
leased from a complaint of such great ob-
stinacy that there was every reason to think
I would never be the same woman again.
Why I say this is because my sufferings ex-
tended over a period of six months or
more, and half that time I was under the
care of a doctor.”
“ What complaint was he treating you
for ? ” asked our reporter.
“ My ailments were as numerous as they
were difficult to cope with, but I am of
opinion that they were occasioned by a dis-
eased state of my liver. Be that as it may,
I know that indigestion was one of the prin-
cipal features of my illness, and I became so
seriously affected by it that before long I
was a completely helpless invalid. When I
had been taking medicines prescribed by my
physician till I knew it was useless to drink
any more I did not know what to do next,
for I was so feeble that I could not walk
across the floor. It seemed a cruel thing to
throw so much money away, and waste so
much time for nothing, but when people are
ill, you know, they will spend their last
penny, if necessary, in buying things which
they expect to do them good. And that is
the very reason why I consider it my duty
to divulge to all mankind the fact that it
was only through using Clements Tonic at
the eleventh hour that my awful sufferings
were checked. Through reading a kindly-
disposed person’s testimonial I started tak-
ing it, and ever since those words appeared
before me I have regarded them with as
much respect as though they had consti-
tuted a message from an angel above. When
I come to consider how much agony I en-
dured I am devoutly thankful that the right
remedy came at last.”
“ Was it after eating that you felt so
ill ? ”
“Well, if you like to call it eating, it
was, but my appetite was so very quickly
appeased that I could not take even a
moderate meal. Two or three mouthfuls of
light diet were always enough, and then the
most unmerciful pains in the chest started.
Had you beheld my anguish you would have
been moved, as the suffocating sensations in-
duced such desperate efforts to get my
breath that an onlooker would have feared
I was going to choke. A fearful state of
weakness was brought about, and I was
compelled to lie down the greater part of
the day, my household duties, of course,
being out of the question so far as I was
concerned. A dreadful aching pain settled
across my brow, as if its mission was to
destroy all the pleasures in life, and it cer-
tainly succeeded, for I felt cheerless and
careworn beyond expression. 'This state of
things was bad enough in the day time, but
when I had to go through the same horrors
at night, for the want of sleep, my sorrowful
condition can be imagined Gradually the
desh wasted off my bones, and in the mean-
time my skin changed to a pallid hue, while
the weaker I got the more my limbs ached.
My lips and hands were as white as if my
olood had turned to water, and when I
•aised my head I became quite giddy. If I
tried to walk upstairs I felt so dazed that I
•ould not go two steps alone, a strange mist
‘l*o appearing before my eyes, which nearly
Jways felt Swollen and weak, as if I were
uffering from a severe cold. Acute pains
••truck me between my shoulder-blades, too,
while the aches across my loins were as pain-
ful as they could be. My mouth was never
free from a taste as bitter as gall, and there
was a sticky substance over my tongue
which I could never wash off, these two ad-
verse elements combined, making me con-
tinually feel sick.”
“How did your nervoun system bear up
against all this?”
“Very well for a time, and then my
nerves gave way quite suddenly. The least
excitement produced a fit of trembling, my
mind also being agitated on the slightest
provocation. But, so far as that goes, my
brain always seemed to be in a restless state,
for if I got an hour or two’s doze, it in-
variably meant that I had some kind of ugly
dream, the recollection of which frightened
me on awaking.”
“ You certainly had very little comfort in
life at that time, Mrs. Eagar.”
“There was really nothing left for me to
live for, and the melancholy thoughts with
which I was seized through my heart pal-
pitating very badly made me heartily sick
and tired of everything ; but when I read
about Clements Tonic I thought I might at
least get a little better if I tried it, and I
think my present appearance speaks for it-
self. When my recovery began it was by
acquiring an appetite through the use of
Clements Tonic, and already that medicine
had done me more service than all the other
decoctions put together, because there was
an inward sense of comfort after my food
which told me that digestion was being pro-
perly performed. Ido not wish you to be-
lieve that this wonderful amount of relief
came instantly, because such a thing, con-
sidering the plight I was in, would be im-
possible, but it was certainly the speedy and
direct result of taking Clements Tonic, and,
moreover, I was soon sufficiently eased from
headaches and pains to admit of sound
sleep helping me towards the goal I desired
to reach. The medicine I was taking suited
my complaints splendidly, as the fearful
pains in my chest diminished as each dose
of Clements Tonic was taken, while flatu-
lence and giddiness were remedied quite
mysteriously. Drowsiness and despondency
were wafted away by the medicine, which
was likewise bracing together my shattered
nerves, and its regulating powers had a
beneficial effect which I have enjoyed up to
the present day. My skiu soon became
clear and bright, which showed that
Clements Tonic had a more powerful in-
fluence over my blood than any physic I had
hitherto purchased, and the unpleasant taste
was altogether removed from my mouth. It
did not take a great deal of Clements Tonic
to rid me of those wearying aches which had
come upon me through excessive weakness,
and when they were gone there was nothing
to stop me from doing my housework with
as much activity and cheerfulness as ever.
Indeed, it was a blessing to work and live,
for before my last bottle of Clements Tonic
was finished I was well and sound in every
respect, and not one of my old ailments has
troubled me since. A lesson like mine
should be taught all invalids, so you can
publish these words in any way you
choose.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION,
f, Bertha Eagar, of 145 Walker-street, Redfern,
in the State of New South Wales, Com-
monwealth of Australia, do solemnly and
sincerely declare that I have carefully read
the annexed ' document, consisting of four
folios, and consecutively numbered from one
to four, and that it contains and is a true
and faithful account of my illness and
cure by Clements Tonic; and also contains
tuy full permission to publish in any way my
statements—which I give voluntarily, without
receiving any payment; and I make this solemn
declaration conscientiously believing the same to be
true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oath*
Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Redfern, this twenty-
ninth day of March, one thousand nine hundred
and two, before me,
A. MOLES, J.P.
Second
Edition.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER:
Harry Mo rant
His ’Ventures,
and Verses.
Price 1/1
Post
Fret.
Y By FRANK RENAR. \f
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney
FOR THE BUSH WORKER.
am-Gi/fc
\ SOOTHINC BALM and EMBROCATION. Will be found
A a CERTAIN CURE for Cuts, Burns, Boils, Barcoo,
•czema, Sprains, Ringworm, Sore Feet, Piles all
orms of Skin Disease or Muscular Affections, etc.
From all Chemists, 1/6 per Tin. A FREE SAMPLE will
be sent you. Address the
ZAM- BU K CO., 39 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Enclose Penny Stamp for postage, and mention this paper.
i Tf
DjJOTICE TO MffiXiBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 10hS.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him-
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
Macnfven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing' to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen.”
THE WAVERLEV PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separately examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM
TH E MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST—SUPPER.
DEBILITATED
WEAK, NERVOUS SUFFERER. Let us send you a
n trial course of our CONCENTRATED BOTANIC
REMEDIES FREE OF CHARGE. You will be more
than pleased with the result, and you will show your
appreciation of our valuable treatment by persevering
in its use for a few weeks until you are PERMANENTLY
CURED. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
DRUNK
ENNESS
CURED
Absolutely Conquered in 20 Days.
my proposition to the Government,
November Bth, 1901, wherein I agree to
accept 100 Test Cases, and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home treatment
within the reach of all. No restrictions no
hypodermic injections. Full particulars free
W. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S.. En*..
120 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Rescued
From Drink
by a new discovery, odorless and tasteless, which any lady
can give in tea, coffee or food. It does its work so silently
and surely that while the devoted wife, sister or daughter
looks on, the drunkard is reclaimed, even against his will
and without his knowledge or co-operation. Send name
to THE EUORASY 00., 62 HUNTER ST.,
sYUNFA , N.S.W., and they will send you booklet and
particulars free.
RUPTURE
Threw awaj
your Truaa,
CURED
withosil
operation or pain,
no detention from work, or depend-
ence upon Trusses. The only
humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
Treatise No. io. Address:
SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C.8., ENG.,
129 COLLIIMS STREET,
M ELBOURNE.
I'll Try It.'
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austral
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
9
The Remit,
CRAIG &, AITKEN, N.s •W. Barber’s Supply
gHouse, 680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Always use at Bedtime
to prevent Mosquito bites
CALVERTS
250 per cent.
Carbolic Soap.
A delightful soaD for toilet *
delightful soap for toilet purposes.
Most useful to prevent or cure insect
or stings, itch, piles, ringworm, etc. ‘ b tes
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng,
* *>
FAI UHg
»
TOOTH-AGHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
BUNTER'S
Prevents Decay, Saves
Extraction, Sleepless Nights
Prevented.
Neuralgic Head-aches ct all Nerve
Pains removed by BUNTER’S
NERVINE. Of all Stores.
NERVINE
"As a specific for Tooth ache it has no equal. I have
need it successfully for years, I '—Prof. W. Wilson, M.D,
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’S WORSDELL’S PILLS
Are a certain Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Head ache,
Dyspepsia, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, 4c',
Of all Stores.
Free Cure.
Wonderful Home Treatment That Cures
Without Pain or Loss of Time.
Dr. W. S. Bice (Dept. 268), 8 & 9, Stonecutter
Street, London, E.C., has invented a method that
cures rupture without pain, danger, operation, or
an hour’s loss of time from the day’s work. To
avoid all questions of doubt, he sends free to every
ME. JOHN "'WESLEY.
sufferer a free trial of his method, and there can be
no earthly reason why anyone, rich or poor, should
not avail themselves of this generous offer. As an
instance of this remarkable method, the cure of
Mr. John Wesley, Castle Lachlan, Inverary. Argyle,
is a welcome intelligence. Mr. Wesley is a well
preserved and highly respected gentleman, 72 years
of age. After a short use of the Kice method the
rupture healed entirely. To-day he's sound as
a bell. If you know anyone ruptured you should
tell them of this wonderful method, which Will
be sent for trial free of all costs.
30 Days’ Trial.
Eg?
m
m
Wi
a
to
sc*
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
A EE LI A N CES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is f oily
explained in our “ELEO-
TRIO ERA.” Our Electro
Belts will cure all NEK-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Eleotria
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTICE.-Before purchasing, we prefer that you se
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), g
illustrations of different appliances for BOIR
also Testimony which will convince the most seep
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
ALL CHEMISTS
in
PROFFINSCHS
£
%
FOR
An/emia,
Poverty of Blood
and Weakness
from Whatever Cause.
TABLETS
>at
PER BOX


WE SPECIALISE in but one direction, i.e., the
equipment of offices
on an UP-TO-DATE SYSTEM.
No Businei-can
succeed without
METHOD.
This METHOD
we supply-
WABASH
EXPANSION
Business
Systems.
Letter Files.
Document Files
Card Index
Systems
For Atii
Businesses.
Write, for
Catalogue.
i. y-~ I—
[lwilfe •
WOOLLEY, BERGIN & CO.,
269 George St., Sydney.
Sole Agents, Australasia.
M
AN EDUCATION
IS PROVIDED hy the American
Schcol of Correspondent; ,
at Armour Institute of Tech-
nology, Chicago, who conduct
Engineering Tuition hy corres-
pondence, and aim to extend, at small cost, a valuable
technical education to the great wage-earning classes
everywhere. The courses are especially practical,
and are adapted to the needs of working people who
are willing and anxious to advance. Electrical,
Steam, Mechanical, Civil and Sanitary Engineering,
Drawing, Mathematics, Architecture, and Textile
Manufacturing, Mining. Catalogue “ B,” describing
Courses, Methods and Terms, sent on request to
R N. FERGUSON, Electrical Engineer (Manager
Australia), P.O. Box 629, Sydney, N.S.VV.
Reader, "why not “be able to use the
•most mysterious and powerful force of
nature? By my method you can learn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all the many marvellous feats
that are possible to the Hypnotist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain ; win reluctant affection,
gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated s-£SSON Of Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explains
I the mysteries and secrets
lof the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the Kind
ever published. For a short
time I wi.l send this magnifi-
cent work FREE* sealed on
receipt of 6d. (stamps) to cover
postage. Order to-day and learn
to Hypnotize. It is a chance of
a life-time. Address —
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
If
you
are
suffering from
exhaustion. Vari-
cocele, Wasting,
Weakness, enclose 6 stamps (postage and
packing), and I will send a trial bottle of my
REMEDY, FREE.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING
to try my Life Syrup Remedies, which
give back strength of body and brain, renewed
vigor, and development of the vital organs;
not a free prescription dodge, but a trial of
my wonderful remedy free for the asking.
Professor H. READ,
165 Collins street, Melbourne.
mm
VEGETABLE
THE ROAD
TO HEALTH IS
PAVED WITH
GOOD
DIGESTION.
Charcoal
Speedily cures Acidity. Flatulence, Heartburn,
Impure Breath, Indigestion, Diarrhoea, <fcc. It
destroys all disease germs, and.absorbingall impuri-
ties in the stomach and bowels,gives a healthy tone
to the whole system. Wards off all attacks of Typhoid
and other Fevers. Prevents many an illness.
BRAGG’S PURE CHARCOAL POWDER in
Bottles; LOZENGES and BISCUITS in Tins
(pleasant to take). Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Having had complaints of the injury done by other
preparations,please see that each Bottle or Tin bears
the Trade Mark‘J.L 8., in monogram, on the wrapper.
OF INTEREST to MEN
"TvEAR SIR,—I have been cured of weakness and De-
bilitv by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHURST,
street, Sydney.
PHOTOS
Models from Life, Beautiful Stereo-
scopies, etc. List with 100 Minia-
ture and 3 Cabinet size photos.,
55., P. 0.0. or stamps.
S. RECKNACEL NACHF, Munich, 1 Brieffach, Germany
THE BALLET GIRL
m
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, 1s
The Life, Adventures
and Confesssions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, is.
'end stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
BOX 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
SAV
With Shampoos of Cuticura Soap
and Light Dressings
of Cuticura.
This treatment at once stops falling hair,
removes crusts, scales, and dandruff, soothes
irritated, itching surfaces, stimulates hair folli-
cles, supplies the roots with energy and nourish-
ment, and makes the hair grow upon a sweet,
wholesome, healthy scalp when all else fails.
MILLIONS USE CUTICURA SOAP
Assisted by Cuticura Ointment, for preserving, purifying, and beautify-
ing the skin, for cleansing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the
stopping of falling hair, for softening, whitening, and soothing red, rough,
and sore hands, for baby rashes, itchinss, and in the form of baths
for annoying irritations and inflammations, or too free or offensive perspi-
ration, and for all the purposes of the toilet, as well as by millions of women
in the form of washes for ulcerative weaknesses, and many sanative, antisep-
tic purposes which readily suggest themselves to women and mothers.
COMPLETE TREATMENT FOR EVERY HUMOUR,
Consisting of Cuticura Soap, to cleanse the skin of crusts and scales, and soften the
thickened cuticle; Cuticura Ointment, to instantly allay itching, inflammation, and
irritation, and soothe and heal; and Cuticura Resolvent Pills, to cool and cleanse the
blood. A Single Set is often sufficient to cure the most torturing, disfiguring, itching,
burning, and scaly skin, scalp, and blood humours, with loss of hair, when all else fails.
Sold throughout the world. Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co., Sydney. British Depot:
27-28, Charterhouse Sq., London. French Depot: 5 Rue de la Paix,Paris. Potter Drug
and Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT PILLS
(Chocolate Coated) are a new, tasteless,
odourless, economical substitute for the ceie-
brated lfquid Cuticura Resolvent, as well as for all other blood
cures Put un in screw-cap pocket vials, containing 60 doses. Cuticura Pißt-s are
alterative, antiseptic, tonic,digestive, and the purestsw^'etestmostsuccesstu l and
economical of blood and skin purifiers, humour cures, and tome-digestives.
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regain Health?
Go to the Fountain Head
And consult Old Surgeon Langston, who will Cure
you. Forty years’ practice as a Specialist is sufficient
Guarantee of the doctor’s ability.
AVOID unskilled pretenders, flaming advertisements and specious
cure-alls.
Vigor and Strength
■for all who
desire it.
OLD SURGEON LANGSTON,
Member Royal College of Surgeons, England, located in Melbourne
since 18S6, has so perfected his method of treatment that it can
almost be said there are no Hopeless or incurable cases.
Be the equal of your fellow man
Tf vou are a sufferer from any nervous, chronic Blood or Skin diseases, or interested in the subject of
Neurasthenia and associated evils, write at once for book of information, blank forms, etc., and have the
old doctor diagnose your case. _
Seek tlxe Truth, it costs 3XTothmg!
All communications strictly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, 129 Collins Street, Melbourne.
HOME cyclopedia
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1902 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
The Art of Wrestling, post Is. Hoyle’s Games, post 2/6
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted. Camille, Is 3d.
Secret History of the Court of England, 1 6 post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle's Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted. S appiio, Is.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
The Wife’s Handbook, Is 2d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance. Is 3d.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s posted.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music comple e Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d posted.
Send for my Illustrated Big Book
Catalogue-post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
ASTHMA AND BRONCHITIS CURED
' By using CASE’S ASTHMA CURE, made from the Queensland Asthma
Plant. Relieves instantly, eventually Cures. 4s. 6d. large bottle;
Posted to any State, ss.
J. W. CASE, Chemist, 140 Wickham-st., Brisbane.
Please mention Bulletin when writing.
USES
Insecticide
i % •/ ■
Kills
ALL
INSECTS
y*
ATIONS
£>ew/^
Kruses
F -aspfr*
BLAIR’S
GOUT $ RHEUMATIC
PILLS.
The Great English Remedy for
GOUT, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA,
LUMBACO & NEURALGIA.
The acute pain is quickly relieved and cured in a
few days by this celebrated Medicine.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, and sold at Is. l£d. and 2s. 9d.
per box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
ASTHMACURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
For Asthmatic people who ouiler irom
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault’s Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
GRIMAULT & Co., Paris. Sold by all Chemists.
EVERY WOMAN
is interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new FEMALE SYRINUE
Injection and Suction. The best,
safest and most convenient.
It Cleanses Instantly.
If your druggist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated Book, sent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies. ' Endorsed by Physicians.
Times Building, N.Y.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN A^LNib-
THE MARVEL CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
CAMDEN BUILDING,
418 George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
LADY SPECIALIST IN ATTENDANCE.
Postal Address, Box 623, G.P.0., Sydney.
Write for Booklet. Sent free, sealed.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
0*: RX CORO’s
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to 'the most shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame. _
In cases of 128. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope
Agents for Australasia- PERRY & CO., 47 Queen St,
Melbourne ; Wholesale Agents for New South. Wales -
« H Fauldlng & Co., 16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
I Completely overcome Dbafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.


THREE
rs
STAR
Beware of
Cheap
Grain Spirits
Flavored
and
Colored
to
Imitate
Cognae
Brandy.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
Castro’s Cast Sacrament
And Other Stories,
BY ALBERT DORRINGTON.
“ The Most Brilliant Short Stories Produced in
Australia .”
A CONSENSUS OF CRITICAL OPINION.
NEW SOUTH WALES. „
“ He has been everywhere and seen every-
thing. and he has to no ordinary' extent the
power of presenting things as they seemed to
him —the gift of vivid and powerful narration.
.... Contains dramatic pictures which the
best of our artists in words might well envy.”—
Sydney Mo> ning Herald.
"The stories are often filled with incidents
that startle the reader, and emotions whose very
strength makes him shiver. . . . Mr. Dorring-
ton’s warrant as a writer of short stories is that
of absolute genius.”— Sydney Daily Telegraph.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
2H George S reet, Sydney, Australia.
a Progressive Dietary suited to the Growing Digestive Powers .
The •
9
*
s?
USEE'S'
Young Infants thrive and sleep well, and are contented
and happy, being saved fr om the digestive troubles common to
those fed on farinaceous foods, condensed milk, or even cow’s milk.
Milk Food no. 1. Milk Food n«. 2. Malted Food N 0.3,
From three to six months.
From six months and upwards.
.
Pamphlet on Infant Feeding and Management free from
495, Bourhe Street, Melbourne.
7SL*L*EN & laid., kONiDON.
II
G
£
6T
o
o
r T
<0
&
r
£
i
AUTOMATIC
ADJUSTABLE
ABSOLUTE
THE BURR LIFT
Made of Steel.
4 PERFECT PULLEY FOR ALL PURPOSES.
Made of Steel.
SIMPLE
SAFE SURE
“Let go the rope, tbe levtr does
the rest.”
The above prices and weights include
lower block. No rope.
Fullest Particulars from the SOLE
AGENTS for Australasia—
E. RICH & CO., Ltd.
SYDNEY.
BRISBANE
fIVENARIUS
White Ant Destroyer.
A WOOD-PRESERVING and ANTISEPTIC OIL.
Preventive against DECAY, DRY-ROT, FUNGUS, and
WOOD-DESTROYING INSECTS.
CHEAPER THAN TAR.
TTIE’D be glad to give you the
benefit of the experience
of others! Of those who’ve
rolled up their sleeves and
turned every stone in their
ardent endeavour to know
facts ! Results of experiences
covering 20 years! We’ve a
booklet (free for the asking)
that will tell you much of
“ Avenarius.”
“AYENARIUS”
is a Wood-preserving Oil and Walnut Stain.
Two coats, well applied, makes wood (hard or
soft, green, sappy or dry) last as long as iron
when exposed to similar conditions. That
may seem like a big contract. But we've got
every reasonable assurance that this claim is
well founded.
Price* and Fullest Particulars from the AGENTS
E. RICH & CO., Limited,
SYDNEY.
BRISBANE


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 24.—N0. 1209.
SATURDAY, APRIL 18, 1903.
Priob 6d.
TRYING IT ON THE DOG—THE REAL EXPLANATION OE TREASURER WADDELL’S SPEECH AT COWRA.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
" Australia for the Australia ns."
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Potany-street, Waverlev, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney
New South Wales.
Terms to subscribers after
Ist NOVEMBER , 1902
(Payable in Advance, only).
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 6
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 0
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
NOTICE.
*V. sending direct to Tm? Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques , Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number, is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the " Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with A ustralian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 8000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Jtlaele and White.
A nyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical draieings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludjate Circus.
South Africa — Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal ; Solomon
and Wilson, S 3 Hout St., Capetown; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban ; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
Ceylon.— Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver . Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
B.C.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., t 2 Queens Road, Hong
Kong.
7 d&7i.
SATURDAY, APRIL 18, 1903.
A Calamity-Howling Government.
Treasurer Waddell, speaking on behalf of
the N.S.W. Government at Cowra, has told
a tale of woe and howled a howl of calamity.
The burden of his tale (though he didn’t
exactly put it that way) was that the O’See
Ministry has been all along a collection of
short-sighted incapables ; that the prophecies
which it scorned only a few weeks ago as a
senseless and low-spirited vision of imaginary
disaster, have come to pass ; that it is a
bursted drum, and a broken bubble, and a
collapsed boom. But though it has been so
badly found out, it is ponderously bumptious
even in the midst of its trouble. A month
or two ago it spoke, with the scorn of the
prosperous suburban cheesemonger, about
the unpatriotic character of people who
saw difficulties ahead, and who, by so doing,
cast doubts on the credit of their own
State. To-day, though it has itself ex-
pounded -the horrors of the situation, it
is just as solid on the unpatriotic
character of the people who want to face the
difficulties fairly and squarely. It is im-
possible to face them without alluding in
some way to the full dimensions of the
trouble, and to do that, in the vocabulary of
the O’See Government, is to throw mud on
the credit of N.S.W. ; also it tends to dis-
parage the next loan. And to disparage the
next loan, in the mind of the O'See Govern-
ment, is the Unutterable Sin. Even though
N.S.W. securities have lately been down to
something approaching waste-paper rates,
and the resumed area is still not fully paid
for, and the finest railway station in the
world is little better than a few forgotten
stones and a deserted heap of earth, and the
last nine months’ revenue is about £1,000,000
behind the expenditure, any attempt to
really put things right is regarded by the
O’See Government as a wicked device for
the disparagement of the next loan.
* 9 m m
In its usual ineffective way the O’See
Government begins its era of partial and
ineffective retrenchment by assuming some-
thing that is utterly untrue. The founda-
tion of its new programme is that there
is nothing to be provided for save a
temporary disaster caused by the drought.
Therefore, it proposes next financial
year—to do something temporary to make
things partially hang together till the drought
is over, after which it is understood they
will hang together naturally, and the old
policy will resume. This financial year
is, apparently, to go to Sheol without any
attempt to save it. The real state of the
case is that the New South Wales Treasury,
while the present system of government
lasts, is never likely again to be even as
well off as it is to-day. During the last two
years the N.S.W. Government has had a
vast amount more money to spend than any
preceding Ministry ever had, even in times
when the grass was 4ft. high in the West,
and when the Paroo was in flood and the
Darling was coming down seven miles wide.
The extra revenue that has come in has
far more than compensated for the extra
drought expenditure ; in fact, the drought,
by bringing in large returns from duties on
imported grain, has been in some directions
a source of revenue. In addition to this,
the expenditure of which N.S.W. has been
relieved by the Commonwealth Government
has in itself more than compensated for all
the drought losses thaChave fallen on the
Treasury. N.S.W. must needs learn in
time to manufacture more, for it can’t con-
tinue maintaining a tenth of its population
on public works paid for out of loans; and
when it does learn to manufacture more it
•will import less, and the O’See Government
will have less customs revenue to fool away.
It must do with less loans, and that also
means less imports (last year about £6,000,000
worth of the State’s imports were paid for out
of loan moneys), and that will also mean
less customs revenue for the O’See Ministry
to spill around promiscuously. The amount
due to the State by selectors has dropped in
half-a-dozen years from over £13,000,000 to
about £9,000,000, and the drying up of this
source of revenue (worth about £1,000,000
a year) also means a probability of less
revenue in the future. Treasurer Waddell
professes that he can’t make ends meet
because the western settlers are drought-
stricken. But he isn’t a western settler, nor
is the Treasury. The bald fact that concerns
him is that he has more money than any
N.S.W. Treasurer ever had before, and that
he has also been relieved by the Common-
wealth Government of over £1,000,000 a
year of expenditure. If he can’t make his
accounts balance now he is never likely to
have a better opportuity.
• "• * *
The bright, fresh, green year that Treasurer
Waddell is looking for is, therefore, likely
to find him harder up than he is now—with
less customs revenue because the people
must learn to manufacture more ; with still
less customs revenue because N.S.W. can’t
go on for ever buying £6,000,000 worth of
goods annually out of loan funds ; with less
land revenue for the land is a fast diminish-
ing asset. And there is no visible set-off
against this state of things. N.S.W. has had
16 deficits in the last 22| years. It has gone
back nearly £1,000,000 in the last nine
months by way of laying the foundation of a
17th deficit. In addition to this it is
charging about £BOl,OOO a year of its
ordinary expenditure to loans. The principal
visible reasons of the trouble are these :
The interest payable on the public debt now increases
every year by £lOO,OOO or £200,000.
The revenue from public works doesn’t increase to
correspond, or anything like it. The money that is
borrowed at 4 per cent, is invested in railways and other
things, and they don’t yield an all-round return of much
over 1£ per cent., when the large number of works which
yield nothing at all are taken into consideration.
The population doesn’t increase to correspond with the
in crease of debt, and can’t be reasonably expected to.
The vast mass of new, unpaid-for and unproductive
works not only involves a heavy interest bill, but a heavy
annuil expenditure for maintenance and repairs, and
this, like the interest bill, is growing far faster than the
population.
The heavy old-age pension expenditure was entered
upon without any provision whatever for finding the
money.
The revenue is bled remorselessly by municipalities
demanding subsidies because it is easier to cadge than to
levy sufficient rates ; by grants to support parks, grants
to repair streets in prosperous suburbs, grants to help
schools of arts to buy yellow novels and billiard-tables ;
by grants to erect monuments over obscure early
settlers ; grants to keep the tomb of this and that person
in order; grants to Salvation Army and other bogus
charities; grants to art societies and societies that talk
about vegetables, weather and geography—in fact, by
the most monstrous system of cadging and back-door
begging that it is possible to conceive. For in N.S.W.,
wherever two or three men are gathered together, there
is an application for a Government grant in the midst of
them. And so little shame is there about this business
that Draper Law of Balmain publicly boasted that he
had been a pitiable political bummer trying to get £75
for a society that sings out of tune at Balmain, and the
money hadn’t arrived. And the fact of it not arriving
was put forward by Draper Law as a public grievance.
The alleged democratic principles of the O’See Govern-
ment consist mostly in putting up wages regardless of
cost, and finding work for the unemployed at digging
useless holes and uselessly filling them up again.
Lastly, a diseased idea about the “dignity of the
State ” leads it to maintain a considerable number of use-
less officials and a considerable amount of useless pomp,
which is utterly out of keeping with the smallness of the
population and the barrenness of the land.
* » » •
Having, by this silly process of shovelling
out money, run in a dreadful fashion on to
the rocks, Treasurer Waddell proposes as
the principal remedy to do two cowardly and
miserably insufficient things. He proposes,
in the first place, to save on old age pen-
sions. The Government to which he belongs
apparently lacked the sense to know that
pensions can’t be paid without money, and
having started to pay them without provid-
ing the money, it already proposes to com-
mence paring them down rather than take
the responsibility of finding the money.
Presumably this is only the beginning of a
process which will lead to the ultimate
abolition of the old age pension system.
Under such circumstances it would have been
a shade less heartless never to have granted
the pensions at all; it was hardly worth
while to arouse hopes in the minds of the
aged and helpless, merely to blight them
so early. And Treasurer Waddell’s other
remedy is to cut down civil service salaries.
The salaried section of the service—as dis-
tinguished from the section whose remuner-
ation is called wages—it must be remem-
bered, didn’t participate much in the
increases which have of late been
thrown about so lavishly. It is mostly
none too well paid. Very many ill-paid
members haven’t been blessed with an in-
crease for half-a-dozen years or more. Very
many of them don’t enjoy even the famous
7s. a day ; they are expected to be clothed
decently ; and their chief encouragement
consists in the periodical issue by the Public
Service Board of a scheme of increases which
never comes to anything. To plunder the
Public Service simply because the O’See
Government is the last possibility in the
way of a fool, is a cowardly, helpless and in-
competent proceeding. The fact that the
reductions are proposed for one year only
makes the position no better. A year
hence, if the present methods continue, the
trouble is likely to be larger than it is now.
* • * •
To begin the reform at the beginning,
N.S.W. should abolish the whole system of
subsidising municipalities, and paying for
their parks, band-stands, repairs to their
streets, and all the other leakages. Munici-
pal government was invented in order that
towns should pay their own local expenses
out of their own rates ; and where a shilling
rate isn’t sufficient, the rate should be made
eigliteenpence or half-a-crown. The men-
dicancy of a gang of helpless and useless
aldermen is a perpetual drain, and it is part
of a system that is teaching ail N.S.W. to be
one vast cadge and act of beggary. The
subsidies to the Salvation sweaters, to the
Queensland weather prophet, to schools
of arts for the purchase of novels and
dominoes, to agricultural shows, to choral
unions that sing horribly, to the
newsboys’ brigade, to friendly societies’
demonstrations (in N.S.W. the friendly
societies can’t even walk in procession with-
out State aid) to brass bands and the like,
should be cut off remorselessly. The Upper
House, part of the Assembly, the Agent-
General, and the imported Governor should
also be dispensed with. So should, so far as
the State is concerned, the Art Society and
the Royal Society, and the Linnsean Society
and the Geographical Society. In short,
the State should commence a policy of
sticking hard and fast to its own business.
• * • •
Then, further, N.S.W. should sit down
and proceed to realise these things :
A country can’t have old age pensions without
paying for them. To grant the pensions, and brag about
N.S.W. as a country which leads the van of human pro-
gress, and then steal the civil servants’ salaries to cover
the expense is a fraud.
A country can’t go on adding to its interest hill
every year by the flotation of new loans without paying
for that also.
Especially a country can’t spend nearly a million a
year of loan money on wholly unproductive works with-
out incurring each year a further liability of about
£35,000 for interest, and perhaps £50,000 for the mainten-
ance of the works.
It can’t go building new railways in thinly-peopled
districts, and carrying goods and passengers below cost,
without making its railway deficit larger and larger, and
that also has to be paid for.
It can’t go gaily and generously raising the wages
of its railway and tramway employees without the bill
coming in.
And when a country is, in a great measure, unfitted
for agriculture, and it has, for many years, systematically
discouraged the establishment of manufactures lest they
should interfere with the interests of the foreign im-
porter, and when about one-tenth of the population
is maintained or indirectly by (largely useless)
public works, the bill for that must come in also.
And when every cotton spinner, silk weaver, iron-
founder, brassworker, or skilled artisan of almost every
kind, who thinks of coming here, learns that there is no
work for him in his own line, because it would damage
the foreign importer, and that there is nothing for him to
do but go on the dry, dry land ; people naturally don’t
come here in any great numbers to help to pay the bill
when it comes in.
* * * *'
The moral of all which is that it is a
hollow mockery to pretend that the present
trouble is a temporary one, to be tided over
by temporarily robbing some ill-paid civil
servant of part of his wage, or docking some
old woman’s pension. The trouble is a per-
manent one; it is one which New South Wales
has been preparing for itself for many years,
and if present methods continue it is likely
to grow worse rather than better. When the
deficit happens 17 times in 23£ years it is a
very poor kind of humor to profess to regard
it as a mere casual or accidental visitant.
The sort of Government that will meet the
case is the one which will permanently cut
down expenditure as far as it can go without
robbing anybody, and will then raise enough
revenue to meet that expenditure and "to
prevent the further accumulation of debt.
If the last clause isn’t included in the scheme
the revenue and the expenditure won’t meet
for long; the growing interest bill must
upset the equilibrium again in a very few
years. Just here the Labor party has the
chance of its life to assert itself as the real
Reform party of the State. No better
opportunity for levying an absentee tax and
a heavy special tax on the disastrous big
estates of N.S.W. is ever likely to present
itself. Is the Labor party too much in love
with the absentee and the big land mono-
polist to move in the matter ?
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Financial Record of William
M'Miilan.
William M'Millan was Treasurer of N S W
once—in 1889-90-91. In that period Loan Bills
for over £16,000,000 were put through Parliament.
M'Millan rushed the loan expenditure up to
£4,750,000 a year (£4 3s. 2d. per inhabitant), yet
he had no land resumptions to pay for ; O’Sulli-
van’s worst record was £4,898,000 (£3 11s. per in-
habitant), but nearly half of that went in paying
for the Sydney land resumptions. In the way of
public works expenditure out of loans, M’Millan
was nearly twice as bad as O’Sullivan at his
worst. M Millan was the first and the worst of
the political profligates of New South Wales. He
not only put up a borrowing record that
smells like the Moore Park tip even to
this day, but he resumed the policy of
recklessly raising the wind on the public
estate—the policy which Dibbs, Jennings,
and Stuart had tried to repress. M‘Milian> b
extended into three hi
had a deficit every year. M'Millan’s deficit
as regular as sunrise; in fact, he was the £
deficit-monger of the State, for he was the
Treasurer who held ofiice for any length of tim/
and never by any chance, got his accounts soS
pTtk oS ,6n h U- office the expenditure
S’£9 192 fir8t ye l r ° f office he ™n it up
to £9,192,000, m his second year to £9,574 000 • ,'n
his third year it reached £10,478,000 It was n
his time that the infamy of using loan mSev
for purely revenue purposes (t.e., for wholly
prod ucti ve works) first assumed serious dimension/
M Millan was also the Freetrader who protected
almost everything and denied that he did it Hi*
Treasure rship was the end of political honesty
(barring Dibbs’s temporary effort to nut t
straight) in N.S.W, It w, 7 , a blot „„?S &
credit, and a political stench whose evil odor
smells horribly down an avenue of time 12 yean
long. Yet the Sydney dailies, merely, it would
seem, because M ‘Millan is a foreign importer and
represents the sacred cause of Calico Jimmyism
have made of this political disgrace a sort of ideal
financier to whom a large section of the public
still looks for guidance. And the cable news
comes out from England that M ‘Millan has been
speaking quite severely, and in a tall, superior
tone, about the See-Owe’Sullivan Government’s
financial doings. The idea of M ‘Millan of all
men having the gall to complain about anybody’s
public financial doings is humorous.
♦
The Rising of the Sea.
An immense quantity of the goods recovered from
the iately burned down bonded warehouse at
Miller s Point, Sydney, were taken out to sea and
dropped overboard, because no one cared to pay
the duty on the damaged articles. This is the
habitual, shiftless, slovenly way that man gets rid
of articles that he finds in the way, but some day
the world will have cause to be sorry for its insane
habit of dropping goods overboard, and running
sewerage into the sea, and things like that. The
sea already covers about two-thirds of the globe
and the dry third only wants to be flattened down
a little more—not so very much more—and the
sea will cover the lot. True, the world would be
mostly solid earth even then ; its diameter would
consist of nearly 7000 miles of good, reliable, hard
globe, with only one or two miles of water on top
thereof, but even that comparatively small amount
of water would be enough for drowning purposes.
And the earth is flattening down into the sea
all the time. The mountains are wearing down
with rain, and their substance is being constantly
carried ocean-wards by rivers. A time will come
when man, the terrified inhabitant of a dead flat
land, only an inch or two above sea level, where
an unusually big wave will be liable to go 25
miles inland, will be anxiously dredging out of
the ocean these kegs and things he now so cheer-
fully throws in, that with them he may build his
continent a little higher above water mark,
Everything that man takes off the land and
throws idiotically into the sea is making the
average height of the land a little lower, and
the average height of the sea a little higher,
and bringing the catastrophe a little nearer.
Many of the great mountains are now
probably only one-tenth the height they
once were. The other nine-tenths have been
weathered away, and when the last remaining
tenth wears down the time will come to build em-
bankments round the remnants of his dry globe
to keep out salt water and utter destruction.
Already great pieces of it are going to our own
knowledge. The North Sea, between England
and the continent of Europe, was land once. Per-
haps it might be land yet if the people hadn’t
thrown things overboard too recklessly, and thus
reduced the height of their low-lying country.
All the ships and cargoes that go down in deep
water, and all the people that are drowned and
whose bodies are not recovered, and all the silt
carried down by rivers, are so much good dry
globe gone overboard, to make the land a trifle
lower and the five oceans a shade higher. Some
of these things may be inevitable, but why hasten
the catastrophe by heaving groceries into the
deep? Australia already lies low—dangerously
low. No continent can less afford to throw things
overboard.
« ■
The Victorian “Re-adjustment.”
It was announced when the Victorian Parliament
dispersed, after doing a number of unwise things,
that “the deficit of the year, amounting to nearly
a million, had been provided for by a complete re-
adjustment of the public accounts.” How much
good that is going to do Victoria isn’t explained.
The young wife who was sure that the milliner
and the butcher needn’t worry about the bills
because her husband had a new cheque-book,
wasn’t a circumstance compared with the people
who think that things are all right with the coun-
try because somebody at the Treasury has juggled
with a ledger and two columns of figures. It
might be a very good thing if we wiped the word
“deficit” out of the language for three years, and
made it a crime to allude to a “re-adjustment of
accounts ” Certainly we have fallen into the
vicious habit of regarding a deficit as a vague and
shadowy thing which may be thrown into the
corner with the borrowed umbrella and 1 > 'gotten,
instead of being, as it is, a hard mass of fact, held
in the hands of a person whose name is mostly
Cohen, and who calls round regularly for his
interest and waits on the doorstep till it is paid.
A deficit just means that we have run up more
bills than we can pay out of our earnings, and to
pay the bills we go round the corner and mortgage
our future earnings ; and people who would think
this an atrocious habit for a private person to get
into, think it quite the respectable thing for their
own State to do. In this Victorian case, assuming
that the shortage has been got rid of on paper by
stealing some sinking funds, postponing payment
of some liabilities and committing other “re-
adjustments,” very similar in character to the
things for which the same State hires magistrates
and judges to give other people two years hard
labor—what then? It might work for one year;
but what about next year? You can’t steal, the
same sinking-fund twice, and the same bill can’t be
postponed indefinitely. If there were never going
to be anymore shortages this plan might do; butlf
there should lie some more (and the indications
are that way) isn’t the supply of juggles liable to
give out ? And the idea that the deficit and the
bad times we have just had are a lone, soli-
tary' exception is fatuous. Victoria has had 11
shortages in 20 years; in the early nineties, when
there was no drought on which to lay the responsi-
bility, there were seven of them in as many con-
secutive years. What is there to be gained by
whitewashing one sepulchre in twelve?
—♦
The State Premiers’ Conference.
The petty paroohial-pumpism of State Premiers
and State politics shows out prominently in the
programme for the Conference of Premiers meet-
ing in Sydney this week. There are 47 matters


set down for discussion, and most of them are
matters with which the State politician has no
legitimate concern, and with which he can offer to
meddle only from motives of jealousy and spite-
fulness against the Australian Parliament. Ever
since, largely in spite of the State Parliaments,
the people set up an Australian Parliament,
to transact the affairs of the nation—leaving
to the provincial legislators a very considerable
remnant of dignity and responsibility, and of
practical legislative power—the average State
politician has consistently devoted himself to
petty wranglings with the Federation—wrangles
about titles, and precedence, and occupation of
buildings—and vain efforts to be just as big and
as important as before Federation. The trouble
reached its most acute stage when Australian
Premier Barton was invited to go to London and
see Edward crowned, and the little State Pre-
miers were not invited. They cadged openly
and shamelessly for invitations, and explained
indignantly that they represented “sovereign
States,” and when Joseph Chamberlain,
with a cold, unfeeling eye on the hotel
bill, finally refused to include them in
the'British nation’s mammoth “shout,” the
State Premiers worked themselves into a sullen
fury over the iniquities of Federation. That
crisis was surmounted without any actual physical
explosion of a State Premier into disjointed frag-
ments, and State jealousy quietened a little for a
time, but was always ready for a sour, invidious
grumble at the paramount Parliament when
opportunity offered. Now the State politician’s
opinion of the other fellow is to be shown by a
solemn discussion of, and the passing of resolu-
tions on, matters which are exclusively under
Federal control, as for instance
Proposed establishment of a Federal Government
printing office. (There will probably be passed a Solemn
Warning against such a step.)
Attitude of Colonial Office towards State despatches.
(The Colonial Office sensibly declines to discuss Aus-
tralian affairs with any but the Australian Government,
and the State politicians wish to preserve the privilege
of occasionally corresponding with Chamberlain.)
Question of right of the States to fix times and places
for election of Senators. (Such a “ right” might be as
reasonably claimed by Balmain and Bourlie to fix the
time and place for the election of their members of the
N.S.W. Assembly.)
Convention between Britain and Germany for settle-
ment of Samoan and other questions. (This comes as
much within the purview of State politics as does the
Bulgarian question, or the employment of negroes in the
American civil service.)
The Premiers’ Conference, in short, seems to have
framed its programme with the idea of trying to
show that a State Premier is just as important as
he used to be, and should be written to just as
frequently by the haughty and noble clerks of
Downing-street, and should have as much voice as
heretofore in the disposal of K.C.M.G.’s and other
Imperial rubbish that is tipped in Australia.
And, whilst the gentlemen comprising the con-
ference devote their time to wrangling uselessly
on that point, they neglect the work which was
left for them to do—looking to the debts and the
drains of the State, for instance—and put them-
selves in the ridiculous position of a municipal
council which persists in debating the situation in
the Far East instead of the smell in the near fore-
ground. The natural result is a growing public
demand for a further extension of the Federation’s
powers, and agrowing feeling that there is nothing
of any importance with which the State Parlia-
ments can be safely entrusted.
4
The Hinglish. Attitude in Australian
Politics.
Importer M ‘Millan, in London, has been ex-
plaining in a lecture that essentially Hinglish
political attitude which the importer, whose
business is located in Australia, always takes
up. The importer never becomes an Aus-
tralian. He comes here, as a, rule, from Ger-
many or Britain, with a mission to keep Aus-
tralia a slave to foreign shoddy, and exercises all
his political and financial interest to corrupt the
Legislatures in support of that mission. In this, as
a rule, he is quite shameless. A. proposal that
the importing class should subsidise the Federal
Opposition leader to secure his attendance at
tariff discussions, and to have his full influence
used in the cause of shoddy, was openly canvassed
in Australia some months ago, and —such is the
state of the public mind, misled by the news-
papers of shoddy—was looked upon as quite a
reasonable and proper notion. Yet in almost
any other country on earth, if the proposal were
openly made that a political leader, and prospec-
tive Premier should be paid by foreigners and by
the representatives of foreigners to damage his
country’s interests and industries for the sake of
those of another country, it would be promptly
smothered in indignation—and possibly some of
the proposers would be smothered with it. Mr.
M‘Millan is the typical importer—a promoted
bagman who, by industriously pushing the sale of
shoddy, and working off the ‘ ‘ mercerised silk,
which isn’t silk, and the sateen which is faked
cotton, and the shirting which is stiffened with
flour, has risen to a partnership in a great import-
inghouse and topolitical prominence. In his speech
at London every suggestion showed the importer :
Australia should have Freetrade; Maoriland
should not be allowed to work towards the Pacific
Federation because that might cause, trouble to
England ; the temporary halting of six English
hatters at the gates of the Commonwealth,
until they or their boss abandoned their atti-
tude of arrogant and contemptuous defiance of
the Australian law, was a “terrible humiliation”;
Australia’s idea of building its own navy is mid-
summer madness ; it should hire a navy from
England, and, if it paid three times the rent
asked for by England, “it would be an excellent
bargain.” It is a beautifully Hinglish programme
—a declaration that the Australian must get his
goods and his politics from England ; that
he is a poor creature only fit to be a hewer of wood
and a collector of wooi for England, and must
keep away from all national pride and from all
occupations calling for brains, which are to be left
to England. And the Australian must in truth be
to some extent a poor creature. The presence of
M’Millan in an Australian Legislature proves
that.
4
5. , Tasmanian Politics.
Tasmanian politics are going to be worth watch-
ing for a while. For one thing, Propsting, who
has never been a Minister before, is now Premier;
and he leads a whole Ministry which has never
been a Minister before; and behind it is a
House which, with a few inconspicuous excep-
tions, has never before been a House, either.
Consequently nobody need be surprised at any-
thing that may happen. Certainly nobody can
tell what will happen, least of all, probably,
Propsting himself. What looks most like hap-
pening, though, is a shocking mess. During the
last 20 years Tasmania has acquired no less than
11 deficits ; the last two years had one each, and
they were of a rather worse character than usual.
By the most charitable way of reasoning,
the revenue for 1901 fell £44, 279 short of the ex-
penditure f wad last year the revenue was £91,717
less even than it was in 1901—and £91,717 is a lot of
money in Tasmania. Meantime expenditure was
sailing along gaily. Obviously this sort of thing
could not go on. The situation is something like
this. Tasmania is in a boat which has been leak-
ing for years. In 11 of the last 20 years the water
got ahead of the buckets, and latterly it has
been gaining all the time; and as it has been
gaining faster than usual lately, ex-Premier Lewis
tried to at least get level with it—that was when
he put on the income tax. Tasmania, however,
apparently likes the idea of drowning, and at the
first chance threw Lewis overboard; and it
not only gave Lewis’s job to Propsting, but
of the 35 men whom it elected it chose
no less than 19 who believe in also throwing over-
board the bucket with which Lewis did his little
extra bit of baling. What will happen if the 19
carry out their intention of abolishing the
income-tax The Bulletin doesn’t know; but
it has . visions of 35 inexperienced mariners
struggling in the sea, and loudly blaming
one another for the disaster, and dragging
a small, dejected island to the bottom
There might be hope for them if they would
accept the suggestion of the little Labor bunch
of three and impose a stiff land-tax, which, among
other things, would burst up the V.D.L. Co.’s fat
■ monopoly ; but a plan such as that is less likely
to appeal to them than the other one. And, any-
way, Tasmania’s case just at present is so serious
that it calls for both plans, and not one alone.
-4
Cheap Brains.
N.S.W. Treasurer Waddell, the young and in-
discreet apostle of retrenchment by public-service
sweating, has committed himself to the statement
that the wages of Judges are “ outrageously ”
high and must be reduced. Mr. Waddell also
seems to think that the Railway Commissioners
are far too highly paid. There is a common
notion among politicians of a certain type—the
type that worships at the shrine of a hob-
nailed caricature of democracy—that any-
body who draws a salary higher than the
politician is a parasite on the people, and a
grossly over-paid personage. You meet the notion
in all grades. There is the mere member, or the
man who hopes to be a member, who thinks that
£3OO a year should be the maximum reward for
intelligence, because he is willing to work for that.
There is the Cabinet Minister who draws £l2OO a
year or so, and, assured that he represents the
highest intellectual development possible, looks
with sour envy on anyone presuming to earn more
from the public purse. No more utterly mis-
chievous or ridiculous idea could find harbor in
the brain of a man entrusted with a share of
the government of the country. Sympathy
with it is responsible for the fact that in
most instances the high administrative posi-
tions of State are fitted to poor salaries, and
therefore attract second-grade men, whose partial
incompetence is responsible every month for more
waste than their salaries for years could replace.
When the interests of a big State department
come into conflict with the interests of a big
privateinstitution in Australia, the lattergenerally
scores in the rivalry, because it has superior
administrative ability ; and it has superior admin-
istrative ability because it pays for it. Brains of
the higher type of intelligence are not too plenti-
ful ; the demand for them exceeds the supply;
and they naturally go to the highest reward offer-
ing. Mr. Waddell’s demand for cheap judges is
a particularly foolish exhibition of his incapacity to
understand the responsibilities of government. In
N.S.W. at the present time, the Supreme Court
Bench is not paid so highly as to attract first-
rank barristers by the salaries offered. Positions
on it are often accepted at a very heavy financial
loss, the dignity of the office compensating therefor.
Occasionally, in spite of the dignity bait, there
has been a serious difficulty in securing the fit man
for a vacancy. As regards the District Court
Bench, resignations from it are not uncommon,
the salaries not being high enough to retain
men who can hope to do reasonably well
at the Bar. The additional circumstance
has, too, to be taken into consideration
that a judge is expected to be not only
skilful and learned, but extra-honest and extra-
prudent. There are many things which he may
not do without impropriety, but which other men
may do without causing a whisper of adverse
comment. Under such conditions, to expect
good Judges at a cheaper rate than that ruling
now shows an optimism only possible to inexperi-
ence and indiscretion. In regard to the whole
question—cheap Judges, cheap railway commis-
sioners, cheap administrators —Treasurer Wad-
dell may be assured with certainty that he can
cheapen an office but he can’t cheapen capable
men. They are not common, and so can com-
mand their price. When the problem of truly
economical control of the vast interests in the
charge of the various Australian Governments is
solved —if ever it is—the solution will not be
found in lowering, but in increasing, the prizes
offered to administrative intelligence.
♦
"A Lesson in Conciliation.”
In Wales, “ 74 collieries, in conjunction with
154,000 of their workmen, have formed a board of
conciliation to periodically regulate wages.” Upon
that text a number of moving sermons are being
preached in the papers on the beauties of the
voluntary method of settlingindustrial differences;
and Australia, which is just beginning to talk in
a Federal way about letting the courts deal with
these differences just as they deal with other
differences, is asked, with a pained inflec-
tion, what earthly necessity there is to
go to the courts when the other plan does
the business so well. And that would be
a very good sermon and a very good conclusion—
if the voluntary method really did the [business.
But it doesn’t. Even in the Welsh case it hasn’t
proved a success yet. All that has so far been
done in that case is to provide a piece of machinery ;
and unt l it has been tried it can’t be said to be a
success, and no sensible person would think of
taking it as a pattern. It is quite possible that
when it is tried it will come to a hopeless smash.
Anyway, that has been the Australian experience.
The Broken Hill silver companies, in conjunction
with their miners, made just such another agree-
ment a few years ago. While it paid the cos. to
observe it, it was observed; when they thought
they could get better terms some other way the
agreement was suddenly thrown out on the rubbish
heap. The miners said, “ Here are differences ; let
us settle them according to the agreement.” The
answer came straight—“ There is no agreement.”
Then a strike started, and it lasted for five or six
months. That is only one case ; there have been
dozens. “Let us talk this dispute over,” the
work people have said again and again. “ There
is no dispute,” the bosses have answered ; “if you
don’t like the terms you can leave them, and that’s
all about it.” These are some of the beauties of
the voluntary method, and they are all the clearer
because they have not occurred so far away
as Wales. Of course, the method doesn t
always fail. In connection with some lines of
business it has, in fact, answered tolerably well
N.S.W. coal-miners have hitherto settled
most of their troubles that way. But that is
easily explained; the owners at, say, Wollongong
know well that, if they hung out against their
workmen, one of the other districts would cut
in” and get their trade; and the workmen know
that if they hung out against the owners their
occupation would be largely gone too. It is just
the same at the other end of the world. Where-
fore, in reply to the fatherly sermons above-
mentioned, this paper could preach another ; and
the heads of the discourse would be as follows :
Firstly.—The fact that in coal-mining the voluntary
method has succeeded doesn’t prove that it would
succeed generally. Coal-mining is an industry that
stands by itself.
Secondly.—The voluntary method hasn’t yet succeeded
in the Welsh collieries, where it ought to, if it succeeds
anywhere ; it's only just going to be tried.
Thirdly.—The voluntary method, essentially and as a
general thing, is good just as long as either crowd thinks
that that method suits it best. Australia knows because
it has tried.
Fourthly.—There being always the danger of a break-
down of the voluntary method, there is always the
necessity to be ready to fight. And sooner or later that
means a fight.
Fifthly.—The only advantage that anybody ever claims
for voluntary arbitration comes in when both parties
obey the award. Therefore compulsory arbitration con-
tains the only good principle claimed for voluntary
arbitration, and embodies it all the time. Voluntary
arbitration only embodies it occasionally.
Sixthly.—Therefore the only possible reason either
party can have for preferring voluntary to compulsory
arbitration is that, under the former, it needn’t arbitrate
unless it likes—arid it doesn’t mean to. The parties to
the present agreement in Wales promise to arbitrate at
all times whether they like it or not, and to obey the
award whether they like it or not. Compulsory arbitra-
tion would be simply taking them at their word. Their
only possible objection would be that they don’t mean to
keep their word, and so don’t want to be taken at it..
Sixteenthly and finally (reasons 7 to 15 being omitted
for want of space), there is no proof at all that even the
Welsh coal-miners wouldn’t have the compulsory way of
settling their troubles if they could get it.
Wherefore the “lesson in conciliation” isn’t any
lesson at all, and the advice to Australia to adopt
that plan should be disrespectfully cast on the
rubbish-heap, to join the voluntary agreements
which have been accumulating there from the
time when rubbish-heaps began.
♦
S.M. Herald on “Dignity in Politics”:—
Politics have not been with us a field that offered
opportunity for the exercise of the instincts of good
breeding. It is difficult to apportion the responsibility
for this state of affairs, but some share of it can be
charged to the adoption of the principle of payment of
members.
Yet surely anyone with average memory or access
to a file of Hansards knows that Parliamentary
proceedings are much more orderly now than in the
days of the gratis legislator. The news records of
20 or 30 years ago abound with stories of pothouse
scenes. Members punched one another on the
floor of the House ; members thrashed one another
in the lobbies; members rolled off their seats
drunk. One member once jumped the Speaker’s
chair and sat there with a waste-paper basket
on his head. “We are not a Parliament, we
are a mob,” yelled the drunken, raving, hiccuping
unpaid Assembly of N.S.W. at Dibbs when he
tried to call it to some kind of order. Think of
going back to that state of things to find
“ Dignity in Politics” ! In the grand old days of
the unpaid Assembly its blasphemy, beer-sodden-
ness, and guttersnipe habits were known all over
the world. It was only necessary then to men-
tion N.S.W. in London and someone would recog-
nise the place at once : “Oh, yes ! That’s where
they have fights in Parliament! ”
4
The throwing open for selection of some sixty
blocks of land by Lands Minister Taverner is
another proof of the urgent necessity for land
reform in Victoria. The areas made available are
nearly all in rough, rugged country—in fact, they
are only fragments and loose ends ; yet for the few
blocks came about 1000 applications. Men and
women, young and aged, married and single, are
rushing eagerly to get on the land. And some of
them —the allegedly lucky ones—will be put on
the land. And there, in heavily timbered Gipps-
land and Beech Forest country, or in the miser-
able, niggardly Glenelg “ Blue Blocks” they will
know all the horrors and privations attached to
going on the land, with little or no capital,
in unsuitable districts. There the enthusiastic
young men and the plucky girl-wives will learn to
work their hearts out, to spend their lives in an
unending struggle for nothing—or, at best, for
future generations. Meanwhile the south-western
plains—highly suitable for agriculture, easily
worked, of good quality, and with a reliable rain-
fall, but nearly empty of population—wait for the
Government strong enough to make the present
waster-owners sell out and afford room for the
earnest, eager, deserving people who are anxious
to obtain them. But that Government is long in
coming ; and back into the heart-breaking wilder-
nesses must go the would-be settlers.
♦
The latest suggested economy of the Victorian
Icicle Government is to prevent any further
accretion of civil service pension rights by dis-
missing the civil servants in a mass and re-engaging
them at the same wage, but minus the right to
pension or retiring allowance. New men entering
the service have no such right, and the idea is to
make all the old men into new men in one huge
operation. If this act of repudiation comes off,
the public creditor will begin to consider very
seriously his own chance of being repudiated.
Yet the Irvine Government hypocritically uses
these very pension rights as a lever to force the
railway men to sever their connection with the
Trades Hall. “ If,” said Irvine lately, “the rail-
way servants were in the position of ordinary
employees their societies could affiliate with the
Trades Hall. The permanent men enjoy privi-
leges that outside workmen do not. The casual
hands were at liberty to affiliate, if they chose.”
If the public servants are liable to immediate dis-
missal at the whim of their temporary masters —
the Government of the day—and the terms on
which they were engaged are repudiated, how are
they better off than the outside worker ?
4
State Astronomer Russell (N.S.W.), who is
always discovering something, discovers now
what makes the drought. It is the moon. As it
goes north it takes the rain with it; as it comes
south, Jake Garrard lets us have a plunge bath
again. As the moon plays this game in a nine-
years cycle, droughts come every nine years, too—
at any rate, there is a droughty nine years and a
wettish nine years. Figures, he says, prove it;
and then he is foolish enough to quote them.
From 1867 to 1875 (nine years) the rainfall averaged
29’47in. per year; 1876-1885 (10 years) 21’64in. ;
1886-1894 (nine years) 28’30in.; 1895-1902 (eight
years) 20’24in. But, if you want them to do it, the
same figures can be made to support a lot of other
cycle theories. Starting at 1870 a 10-years-cycle
nuisance could show that in the first run
there was an average of 28'23in. ; in the
second an average of 21'74in.; in the third
25’49in. ; and in the fourth, so far, 19’77in.
This makes almost as good a cycle as the other.
Mr. Russell includes among his wet years 1868
'24 inches), and among his dry years 1877 (26
inches) and 1879 (30 inches). Also 1888, with 13
inches of rain—the boss dry year of the lot —has
to go in among the wet years to make the cycle
hold together. Still there is one unquestionably
good feature about the idea. What Australia
wants just now is a cycle which will show that the
next wet year is about due. No other cycle is of
the least use, or likely to please anybody. And
this cycle shows 1903 or 1904 as the last of the dry
years, so it is just the cycle that is wanted. And
when a cycle makes us feel better, why leave it to
go looking for a cycle that will make us feel
worse ?
Thb village settlements on the Murray, in South
Australia, are just entering still another stage
in their rocky journey. There were formed first
in 1893 on either a co-operative or a communistic
basis—l 3 of them. Within a few weeks the
alleged unlucky number was reduced to 11, and
four of. these have since been dropped. The rest
have given communism best; down on the Murray
Flats, on a diet of pumpkin and rabbit, it didn’t
seem to be the thing that it had been cracked up
to be in the city. On a basis of individualism,
tempered by pretty solid “mateship,” what are
left of them —naturally the most sanguine and
downright of the crowd—have struggled on, getting
advice from the Government, and, when the
rabbit and pumpkin fell short, getting some help
too. A Parliament which hasn’t much sympathy
with experiments of this sort concluded last session
that it was about time, after nine years, that
the settlements paid their way, and it was decided
to put the whole concern on a business basis. The
improvements which have been made with money
advanced by the State are now being valued, and
the settlements will be expected to payback this
amount in 42 annual instalments. The plan has
its merits (in fact, every plan for paying off bor-
rowed money has its merits); though, if Bull-
Cohen suddenly tapped Jenkins Iscariot on the
shoulder and said that, after 70 years or so, it was
about time South Australia paid its way, and that
he would be expected to pay up, in 42 annual
instalments, the £27,000,000 which the State has
borrowed, Jenkins Iscariot would most likely
say hard things about Bull-Cohen, and prommly
return to his Amurrikan citizenship.
♦
R. B. Ritchie, the new member of Victoria’s
House of Landlords, in his first speech, recklessly
gave away the theory that that institution is of
any value at all in restraining reckless expendi-
ture :
The members of the Legislative Council were respon-
sible to a great extent for the losses of the railways.
They had authorised the construction of lines of which
they knew absolutely nothing—at least, he hoped so.
The line from Dunkeld to Penshurst was constructed, the
contract price being £60,000, and the actual price being
about £BO,OOO. Now the sleepers had been torn up, the
rails had been sold, and all that was left of the line con-
sisted of two wire fences with rabbits in the middle.
Quite true, There isn’t in all Victoria a swindle,
a job, a rotten railway, a loan or a deficit for
which the House of Landlords isn’t more respon-
sible than the Assembly. The M.L.A. may do
jobs in the hope of pleasing his constituents and
keeping his seat. The M.L.C. is never in any
danger of losing his seat, for so very few people
are eligible to sit in the Upper Tomb that his
constituents, however much they may hate him,
can hardly ever find another candidate to put up
against him. So when he does jobs it can only be
because he likes jobs.
4
An interesting arbitration case was settled re-
cently in Perth. A tailoring company had a
dispute with its hands and closed it summarily by
dismissing them. On behalf of the men, the
Registrar under the Arbitration Act took the case
into court, and the company was fined £lO for
“doing something in the nature of a lock-out.”
On appeal, however, Justice McMillan ruled that
the dismissal was not a lock-out, as it was un-
conditional. The point is a fine one, but still
there is some logic behind the Judge’s decision.
In a lock-out it is understood that the men may
come back if they accede to the employers’ terms,
and as the arbitration court is there to fix terms
the lock-out is quite illegal. On the other hand,
when men are sacked and others taken on in their
places, then the Court is concerned with the new
men, not the old ones. The logic on the other side
is that, if the boss is allowed to sack his men
as soon as there is a prospect of them taking a
dispute into court, the only safe course for the
men to pursue is to rush to the court with their
case, and get there before the boss has time to
know that there is any dispute, for after the case is
incourtanycoercivemeasuresbecomeillegsl. Still,
either way, the general usefulness of the Arbitra-
tion law isn’t impaired. The question at issue
will get into court in the end whether the first or
second or third set of men brings it there, and
when it gets into court it will Joe settled. The
present decision is rough on the first set of men,
but the valuable machine of arbitration will go on
just the same.
4
“ Kiwi ” from Maoriland :
You have hit the nail on the head (8., 7/3/’O3) as to the
land-value tax falling mainly on city and suburban land.
According to a Parliamentary paper published last
session, the value of the land in the four chief towns of
Maoriland, excluding all improvements and excluding all
properties below £2500 unimproved value, is £5,148,253.
The graduated land tax, which is in force here since 1891,
falls on properties having an unimproved value of £5OOO,
and over, so that no inconsiderable portion of that impost
falls, not on the “ poor farmer ” or sheep-owner, hut oh
the city speculators. Of course these figures do not
include the huge values of the suburban lands, which
would possibly be as much more. This is a country
where the people are alleged to take a very intelligent
interest in politics ; yet tramways are being built, streets
broadened and straightened, railage fares cheapened—all
for the benefit of the mere handful of rich people who
can afford to gamble in city and suburban sections. All
these public utilities simply make land dearer and, there-
fore, harder to get—a good thing of course for the few
who can buy and hold, but a bad thing for the poor
fellow who depends on his wages and has to pay rent.
After all the sickening cant we hear about the blessings
of the freehold, the great majority of the citizens are
rent-paying tenants, and the rents are rapidly increasing.
The land is not the poor men’s provider, but the Pat
Man’s kept-mistress, and hence we have paunchy
capitalists growing rich on land worth £2OO per foot,
while many other men can’t afford to rent enough to
have a garden. The remedy? A good stiff land-value tax
of course; but we can’t have it while the people are
gulled by a lying press.
»
The British Admiralty had only to drop one sen-
tence from its mouth to show how thoroughly it
misconceives the spirit of Australia. “I want,”
said the First Lord—“l want Australasia to under-
stand that the sea is the one material source of
our greatness and our power.” There spoke not
the Australian, burning to develop Australia, but
the foreign-trading Englishman—the man who
thinks that you may only get strength by buying
your neighbor’s calico, and his cabbages, and his
iron ; the man who thinks that a wharf and a
warehouse are greater things than a factory and a
farm. No ; the one material source of Australia’s
greatness and power, if it is ever to become great
and powerful, must be—Australia.


The EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
FINANCIAL STATEMENT
FOR YEAR ENDED 31st DECEMBER, 1902.
ASSURANCE IN FORCE .. - £265,597,775
INCREASE IN ASSURANCE IN FORCE .. .. £l9 915 m
ASSETS .. .. £73,855,783
INCREASE IN ASSETS .. .. .. _ _ .. £4,889 175
SURPLUS £15,418,151
INCREASE IN SURPLUS .. .. , . . . £620 434
THE NEW BUSINESS EXCEEDED THAT OF 1901 by ... .. £6,565,178
Local Directors have power to Issue Policies, Pay Claims, etc.
Sir WILLIAM M'MILLAN,. K.C.M.G., Chairman; Hon. C. K. MACKELLAR, MB MLO
F. NORTON MANNING, Esq., M.D.
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager For Australasia.
F. C. COWLEY, Secretary. ALEX. JOBSON, Actuary for Australasia. DAVID FELL, Auditor.
8. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, F.S.S., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
SAWMILL machinery.
Single and Double Cutting BAND MILLS for
hardwood logs, CIRCULAR SAW MILLS, Com-
plete Outfits of any capacity. Band Resaws,
Engines and Boilers.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
“THE SILVER LINING”
to the dark clouds of depression which have hung over N.S.W. for the past decade is the
partial break-up of the drought. “ Adversity is a hard master,” but If the lessons it has
taught us are taken to heart, then “ the curse may prove a blessing in disguise.” No
fear need be felt for the country’s capacity to recoup itself if the people and Government
do their part. Australians, if they apply themselves, are equal to any in the world.
They can hold their own at sport or work. For resourcefulness they are unequalled.
Australian Preserved Meats were pronounced the best our soldiers had in South Africa,
the ROSEWARNE PACKING CO. being specially mentioned. Mr. Wragge says that
for 4or 5 years we shall have an ample rainfall. Let our Government, therefore, push on
with irrigation works exclusively, so that when the next drought comes all our lakes and
rivers will be full and all our inland river banks covered with a luxuriant growth of
lucerne sufficient to keep our stock from starving.
Then the ROSEWARNE PACKING CO. will not only*. t.e able to supply the other
States with all the Sheep and Ox Tongues and other Meats that they require, but they
will apin export Australian Meat to the endspf the earth. Their Potted Meats in 2 and
4oz. tins are excellent, and are gradually taking the place of the imported. Try them.
The principal grocers stock them.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Lyceum “A Woman of Pleasure."
Criterion.... “Charley’s Aunt.”
Royal “ Dick Whittington."
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Palace “Are You a Mason?"
Belmore Park Fitzgerald Bros.’Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Midsummer Night’s Dream."
Her Majesty’s “ Ma Mie Rosette.”
Theatre Royal “ The Prodigal Daughter."
Bijou ... “ Mistakes Will Happen.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Town Hall Edward Lloyd (final concert,
April 17).
Wlß ( T Prince\°BHdg'ej'} Wirth Bros.’Oircus-Hippodrome.
♦
On Saturday night Sydney Royal re-
opened with the pantomime of “Dick Whitting-
ton and His Cat,” in which Williamson and Mus-
grove had combined to break Australia right up.
Australia is still intact, and rather derisive, and
decidedly of opinion that each manager can do
much better on his own. The tale of Whittington
is—the writer forgets how many hundred years old
now, but the legend is comparatively fresh and
green compared to the musty, ancient jokes with
which the present pantomime surrounds it. The
skeletons of antediluvian chestnuts are dragged
from their well-earned rest and made to do yet
another turn for the benefit of a management of
which the public expected better things. Where
the panto, is not stale and reminiscent of the
Cavemen, it is puerile, and calculated to make the
public yawn with weariness. Its wit consists
mostlyof a man dressed as a woman opening alarge,
cavernous mouth and roaring hideously in falsetto,
which is supposed to represent a woman crying.
When not roaring, this person brings down the
house by whistling and remarking “Keep cool !”
He evidently expects the blood of the people who
had paid for admission to boil at any moment.
Even as a spectacular show “Dick Whittington”
is a comparative failure, especially when com-
pared to the glories of “Cinderella,” which
George Musgrove managed to put on when not
associated with anybody; and from both the
literary and the spectacular standpoint William-
son’s own panto., “Red Riding Hood,” was im-
measurably superior. The two bright spots in
the show are the cornfield at Highgate Hill, where
the tiny ballerinas give the Buttercups and
Daisies ballet while a red and delirious poppy
gyrates in the centre ; and the Fanmakers’
Hall, iv Vhich the dancers represent the
evolutions of a fan. But neither of these are up to
the Porcelain frivol in “ Cinderella.” The final
blunder comes in where someone sings a song on
the beauties of Freetrade and the hope of George
Reid’s speedy promotion to the billet of Boss of
Australia. Not a cheer greeted the sentiment on
Saturday, and not a hand-clap broke the deadly
stillness; and if there were any more Freetrade
tags and songs they were carefully omitted. If
aturday night’s audience was any indicator of
public opinion in Sydney, the eye-glassed owner
of the Dog is a discarded prophet.
• * • •
As Dick Miss Rose Hamilton
fails to arouse any wild desire for Dick’s future
prosperity, but probably this usually bright and
capable actress is crushed beneath the burden of
a very indifferent part. As Alderman Fitzwarren,
Barney Fagan is as refreshing as a mint julep on
a sultry day, and Percy Perman works hard to
make a success of the Vizier; but, again, the
book gets him down. Miss Henrietta Byron
makes the sort of heiress that that sort of
Dick Whittington deserves to get. The person
who arouses the warmest feeling of friendship and
admiration is Miss Thornton—there are points
about that lady. Gulliver, as a cat, looks like a
remarkably fine specimen of the over-grown
Persian, and is about the most successful person
in the show, but then he is free from a burden that
others carry—he hasn’t to hump round the dead
weight of the book. The cat isn’t compelled to
make jokes. He rests on his natural dignity.
** * »
Edward Lloyd, the greatest living English
tenor, gives four concerts in Sydney on 21st, 23rd,
25th and 27th April. He is to be assisted by
Peterkin (basso), and Misses Emily Foxcroft
(contralto), Jean Newman (soprano), and May
Mukle, who discourses on the ’cello. The Gover-
nor-General lends the pomp of his dignified, if
somewhat heavy, presence to the opening con-
cert, and with this guarantee of the perfect
respectability of the show, all doubts should be
removed. Edward Lloyd is a stout gentleman
with a drooping mo, a perfectly shaved double
chin, a certain amount of beautifully arranged
hair, and an expression which amounts in itself
to a fatherly blessing.
** * *
“ Charley’s Aunt ” was presented by the
Frank Thornton company at Sydney Criterion,
on Saturday, to a public that has by no means
grown tired of the frisky old he-lady in the
impossible cap and the very limited knowledge of
Brazilian products. In this the public snows
more discrimination than it often does. Brandon
Thomas’s farce comedy is one of the best; every
incident dovetails; and there are no loose ends.
Also it is not the sort of comedy wherein Jones
pretends to be Smith, and Smith to be Brown,
while Brown doesn’t exist, and the two men and the
myth whiz round deliriously till the play becomes
as brain-jagging as a game of chess ; nor dois the
plot hinge on the worn and haggard fact that
someone called Thomson goes out at night with-
out telling his wife, and then has to make up ten
different lies to as many people on the subject.
“Charley’s Aunt” is built on one simple and
humorous fraud, and when the perpetrator thereof
happens to be Frank Thornton the audience may
rest content that it won’t want much more in the
way of amusement. To hear that gentleman
confess that he was a naughty girl that morn-
ing, or explain how he and other ladies
feel all of a flutter at a proposal of marriage,
is worth half-a-crown in itself. The Thornton co.
is a good one in a general and unobtrusive way.
Miss Leonie Norbury and Miss Vera Fordyce
have merely to make love occasionally and
pretend not to see anything when Thornton’s
masculine ankle obtrudes beneath his feminine
farb._ Yera does this rather better than
ieonie. John Denton acts cleverly enough
the trying part of Stephen Spettigue, the
local hypocrite with the umbrella and the
dubious nose. Alexander Bradley makes a good
Jack Chesney, though that ordinary young man
furnishes little scope for any special excellence,
and Joseph Wilson is a sufficiently convincing
character as the Colonel who marries Charley’s
real aunt, a lady who is played in quiet fashion
by Miss Phoebe Mercer. Miss Belle D’Arcy
looks nice in blue silk as Eva —but most of
these are parts which any mummer of respectable
intelligence can fill. “Charley’s Aunt” is a one-
man piece, and that man, so far as Australia’s
knowledge goes, has always been Thornton. It
is a serious matter to try to imagine any other
person in the part. This writer once had a vision
of George Rignold as the bogus aunt, and it was
so terrifying that medical asssistance had to be
sent for.
** * *
Fitzgerald’s Circus has raged in the pre-
sence of large audiences at Belmore Park, Sydney,
all through a wet, slushy, depressing Bun season.
A slight disagreement recently arose between
Pagel and his lion, but the matter was submitted
to arbitration and the lion was defeated in one
round ; so Pagel throws that cantankerous mass
of claws and meat into the air as per usual. The
advertisement says, by the way, that the horse
which Pagel carries up the ladder weighs one ton,
and that Pagel shifts it as off-handedly “as if it
were an ordinary baby.” Pagel certainly carries
the animal lightly enough, but his lightness has
a studied air about it, and if the horse does weigh
a ton it seems to conceal the fact to some extent.
Still, even if Pagel laboriously carried a horse
weighing 18cwt., the feat would be wonderful
enough. The Bulletin has no desire to
be hypercritical, but it would like to know
if the Fitzgeralds couldn’t knock 5 |per cent, off
that horse for cash.
** « *
The players rather than the play were
responsible for the really out-of-the-ordinary
success of “Are You a Mason?” at Sydney
Palace on Saturday. As a farce comedy, “ Are
You a Mason?” is something above the average
of its kind, and reaches to a very high point of
merit in the second act; but it takes a little time
to develop its hilariousness, and in the third act
it falls away somewhat. The authors created
a tangle of complications which, at the last
moment, they found it impossible to wholly
unravel, so they left some of the knots to
be cut by the summary process of the fall
of the curtain. But it is an unusually good com-
pany, and the finished art of a combination, which
is not a one-man or a one-woman organisation,
makes “ Are You a Mason ? ” seem to be among
the best farce-comedies ever played in Sydney.
The motif of the play is a variant on the usual
theme of the husband who comes home with the
milk. In farce, the husband nearly always
comes home with the milk, and lies indus-
triously and with much perverted ingenuity
through two acts, and is forgiven in the third
(when all his lies have been discovered) by a wife
who recognises that she is evidently married to a
great statesman. In “ Are You a Mason ? ” the
husband, during his wife’s absence, has been home
with the milk for a fortnight or so, and there
is a Gorgon housekeeper with a prying eye and a
fine denunciatory brogue ready to “tell on him.”
So his yarn is that he has been going through the
painful initiation ceremonies of Masonry ; and
that yarn looks like holding water until there
appears his father-in-law, who, to escape occasion-
ally from an acidulated wife, has for 20 years been
falsely representing himself as a Mason and de-
voting to cards the time which he was sup-
posed to give to bestriding a large black goat and
becoming High Mumbo-Jumbo of some Dejected
Order of Imprisoned Carpenters. So there are two
bogus masons, and one can’t sneeze without the
other sneezing because of the idea that it’s a
Masonic signal. This foolery is further eompli-
catedbythefactthatthefather-in-lawhasa‘ ‘past,”
and to intimidate him his son-in-law conjures up—
with the help of a male chum who has been an
actor and has played “Charley’s Aunt”—an
imaginary daughter of this “ past,” and when this
man, masquerading as a daughter, is accepted as
a sister by three lovely girls, and is invited to
measure them for dresses, and so on, there is that
feeling of something wicked about to happen,
without which no farce is complete. But
it doesn’t happen, and in the third act some of
the complications are explained away and some
are not.
• * * •
The co. more than fulfils the expectations of
the most booming advertisements. The principal,
George Giddens, is a quiet, richly unctuous come-
dian with a great gift of facial expression and a
voice which runs on chuckle-bearings. In the part
of Amos Bloodgood, the father-in-law, lie suggests
Robert Brough in broad comedy ; and that means
excellence. Miss Eileen Munro, who plays his
wife, is a finished actress whose impersonation of
a most dignified cat of a mother-in-law is a fine
lesson in voice-effects. Without any low-comedy,
with very little gesture, she makes the character
clear by her voice-tones. It is a performance of
admirable finish. Cecil Ward has the longest
part in the play ; he adds to his many successes
with the Brough Co., acting always with spirit
and humor. Miss Ethel Mollison, as his wife,
has no very great calls on her acting ability, but is
quite equal to such as are made, and is always a
highly ornamental figure in the stage picture.
George Desmond plays with broad comedy the
part of the young man who disguises himself as a
girl—and a very fine girl, too; his efforts to knit
up to his girl reputation are especially thrilling.
*# » *
A variety show, under the direction of
James MacMahon, the “Mighty Atom,” and
Wyndham, at Queen’s Hall. Sydney, has been
gathering in the holiday shillings with some
success. It is in many of its features a bright
little show —“Cin.” pictures of the British navy
and of the Australian Trumper at the wickets, and
other not wholly depressing circumstances being
alone well worth the price of admission; and
there are some good singers—A. Craven, C. D.
Portus, and L. Nelson, for examples.
** * *
“A Woman of Pleasure,” staged at Sydney
Lyceum by the newly-arrived William Anderson
company, begins interestingly with a simple vil-
lage girl deploring her monotonous life and de-
termined to change it at any cost. Accordingly,
when she sees the Earl of Carlingford accidentally
push a man over a cliff, this child of Nature asks
for a countess-ship as the price of her silence, re-
marking candidly that, as he has no wife and no
heir, the bargain may be a good one for him
as well. To which the scion of aristocracy
agrees. Seven years later the gentle Alice
has discovered that the life of a Countess is like-
wise monotonous, and that to go off with Laur-
ence Dunbar (a gallant Major) would be a change.
In the same act, however, she thinks better of it,
and sends him a letter to that effect. The Major,
however, thoughtfully sends the epistle to the
husband (to whom it seems equally to apply), and
having chloroformed the lady, bears her off to
some place where she is understood to refuse
the Major’s attentions till she reappears
later as a S’African nurse. Meanwhile the
Earl goes to hide his dishonor on the same
continent. It is now some little time since
melodramatic heroes thronged to Africa, and the
Relief of Mafeking, which occurs in this play
publicly on the stage, seems rather out of date.
• • « •
Previous to the relief the Major, who is also in
Africa, presents himself before a Kruger-like
Eerson and shows how the Relief can be prevented
y the reading of certain papers. He offers the
papers for nothing, but the noble Boer tears them
in pieces and says that he will not profit by a
traitor’s sin to harry the noble English, because
he and the other Boers are trying hard to fight
square and fair as the English do ! All through
the S’African part of the drama it is understood
that the Boers are second only to the English in
high-mindedness and courage. Meanwhile the
Countess is chloroformed again, and this time
taken up in a balloon —which pauses in mid-air
as the husband rushes in, so that he can deliver
a speech to it. The balloon is next seen to have
landed amongst some red African mountains,
and the Major, observing a ship in the
distance, determines to make for it and leave the
Countess behind. The Countess, however, clings
to the rope, and some clouds come on with human
feet under them, indicating that she is in mid-air.
Then some yards of blue sea are unrolled, and the
parties are rescued by a boat moving as no boat
ever did. The ship, later on, catches fire, and,
with the exception of the principal characters, all
are drowned, singing “God Save the King,”
though Edward at this time was only legally en-
titled to be blessed as Prince of Wales, not to be
saved. The next act deals with the old baronial
hall, where the Countess is forgiven, partly in
consideration of being saved from the wreck,
partly because someone who doesn’t know any-
thing about it declares that her conduct in the
balloon was strictly honorable.
* * * •
Robert Inman, as the noble earl, has
nothing much to do except to look aggrieved and
honorable and talk to a priggish son about the
escutcheon of his ancestors ; all these things, how-
ever, he does in approved fashion. Laurence Dun-
bar, as the wicked Major, goes through his course
of villainy without a hitch. There are only three
women in the caste. Miss Ada Guildford, as the
much-chloroformed Countess, moves gracefully
through her part, and speaks well, except for an
occasional slight tendency to monotone. Miss
Georgie Leighford’s impersonation of a Chicago
person in bloomers is a good sketch, while Temple
Harrison gambols well as a sraock-frocked rustic.
Stanford’s sketch of an ancient agriculturist is
exceptionally good. But there is too much humor
in the piece, and this has a sorrowful effect.
#* * *
A gusty night with spasmodic rain showers
was responsible for a rather poor attendance at
Sydney Town Hall, Easter Monday night, when
Miss Hilda Mulligan’s valedictory concert was
being held, A considerable number of talented
artists gave a good programme, and the little
singer herself sang some charming songs in a voice
which, under proper tuition, should some day
make her famous. The fact that at present she
is only a student, a mere beginner, does not con-
ceal the sparkle in her notes.
** # *
Sydney Tivoli has gone back to its “first
part,” nominally abandoned some time ago when
a Yankee variety co. was flaring through the land
without the corner-man and the other adjuncts of
old-fashioned minstrelsy. As a matter of fact,
the Tivoli never really abandoned its “first
part ” ; it only broke up the circle and distributed
the items through the body of the programme.
And that change was not for the better. If the
tame ballad of the minor vocalist is to form a
large part of a music-hall programme, it might
as well be given the advantage of a chorus
and a bright setting. The return of the old
institution to the Tivoli is, therefore, in a measure
welcome, especially as it is a well-dressed and
very well “set” institution. But why doesn’t
Rickards introduce a really good ballet as his
“first part”? There were some other changes
in the Tivoli programme for the holidays.
Seeley a,nd West, new-comers, are a humorous
and skilful pair of musicians. Miss Fanny
Power comes back to give “imitations” 0 f
people she imitated a year or so ago, and who
are now mostly forgotten ; she should imitate
some more recent people. Rodda Perry the
male alto, sings faultlessly several songs in his
curious frank of a voice ; and Hill and Sylvainv
(especially Sylvainy) continue as the chief attrar
tions.
** » *
The old “ first part,” in an improved form
has been restored to the Rickards show at Melh
Opera House. What time the World’s Enter-
tainers were booming in Sydney and Melb.— that
was nearly two years ago—the “first part” at
Rickards’ fell into disrepute. It didn’t look un
to-date. The public wanted vaudeville on strictly
American lines. But when the old variety pn>
gramme was vau devilled to suit what seemed to be
popular taste, the public soon began to think it
had lost something. So the first part, whereon
Rickards built his fortunes, is being tried again to
the great delight of “local talent,” which gets
more openings in a quick change programme than
in an assortment of “turns” where each turn
holds the floor for ten minutes or more.
*# # *
Melbourne must be losing some of its
early piety. At the Gaiety Hall on Good Friday
the attraction was “ A Grand Rational Concert”
embellished with a “comic biograph.” More-
over, the advt. indirectly scoffed at the orthodox
sacred concert of Bun Friday by announcing that
the rational entertainment was Not a Dull Show.
O, the blasphemy of it!
“ A Midsummer Night’s Dream,” at Mel-
bourne Princess’s, is the finest Australian produc-
tion of Shakespeare up to present time. Also itsur-
passes any previous local production of any other
sort —tragedy, comedy, history, pastoral, histori-
cal-comical, or pantomime-burlesque. In short, it
is an. Event. The late Bard deserves little credit
for his immortality as regards the “ Dream.” On
Saturday night when the curtain fell the attend-
ance shouted for Courtneidge and Musgrove— not
for the author. The play, for stage purposes,
owes all its success to scenery, music, dresses,
and modern “business” improvements. There is
less literary work and more embellishments in
this than in any other Shakespearian survival,
nevertheless the finest trimmings couldn’t make
a weak performance tolerable. The imported
company gives a performance almost worthy cf
the surroundings. Four ladies—Miss Nora Kerin
(Titania), Miss Dora Rignold (Oberon), Miss
Cynthia Brooke (Hermia) and Miss Maud Milton
(Helena) are a joint and several success, not to
say an unwonted treat. They are blessed with
musical speaking voices, and Miss Rignold, who
looks every inch a fairy king, sings very sympa-
thetically, whilst Miss Isabel Webster shines as
the soprano fairy soloist. Miss Marsdin (Puck)
should be an efficient sprite when she has re-
covered from an unlucky accident which reduced
her supernatural gambol to a mere earthly limp on
Saturday night. The two young men in the lover
partsare moderately ornamental and commendably
outspoken and vigorous. It is a pleasure to hear the
members of this company talk. Our old friend
Alfred Bucklaw has returned to Australia, after a
long absence, as the Duke of Athens, a strangely
smileless dook, considering that he is always
marching around with his bride elect.
* • * »
The broadly farcical section of the play is
effectively done, and overdone, by W. H. Denny,
Athol Forde and others. Denny’s special qualifi-
cations for the character of Bottom are a strong,
masterful voice, an aggressive manner, and a
natural tendency towards the centre of the stage.
He shakes things up, but he doesn’t convince
anyone that he’s a weaver in ancient Athens.
George Rignold of yore fitted himself somewhat to
the character. Denny, taking the character to
himself, makes Bottom look very like a Rickardian
comedian. A large orchestra, with Zelman,
junr., in the chair, treats Mendelssohn’s music
respectfully. The Nocturne, played whilst the
day is dawning on the sleepers in the forest
(these Athenian aristocrats used to fall asleep
out of doors as easily as the fat boy in “Pick-
wick ”) might be encored every time if it were
Once in a while the showman’s craft has sought
To charm the dullards from their meaner
pleasures,
And lead them to poetic planes of thought
Where nimble fancies dance enchanting
measures.
Then Art, who speaks in aceents sweet as honey,
Demands fair meed of love, and praise— and
money.
Not oft the rhymster sights a worthy theme
For soulful gushings in his round of duty,
Let him proclaim “A Midsummer Night’s Dream”
Supreme among dramatic things of beauty.
The gods forbid that gold should seem misspent
In bringing Culture to a continent.
0 Wood near Athens where the sun goes down
Upon the wrath of twitted Oberon,
And fairies, tripping on the damp knot-grass,
Behold their queen enamored of an ass !
Thou wood, O wood ! O green and fragrant wood!
(By Shakspeare students this is understood
As being written in a humor gay
To parody a line of William’s play)
There will the rhymester’s lofty spirit seek
Some consolations in this coming week
For all the sorrows of the changing shows
Which haunt his mem’ry whilst the wild time
blows —
There, feasting on a scene of pure delight,
Cry “ Fate can’t harm me, I am fed to-night.”


r
i
M
TRAMWAYS FOR MINES.
e-i-ncifc in SYDNEY and MELBOURNE include—Steel Rails, Bridge Rails
3 Steel Side and End Tip Trucks, Portable Tramway, Portable and Permanent
Switches Ball-bearino- Turntables, Axle Boxes, Wheels and Axles, Jim Crows,
Dog Spikes etc., etc." INDENTS -LOCOMOTIVES from 10 to 400 h.p
including Compound Locos, and every descript on of Light Railway Material.
CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Prop Ltd., 40 Hunter St„ SYDNEY. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager,
Representing Orenstein and Koppel, Ltd., London, Berlin and Pans.
Branches—Melbourne, Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania).
• #svaavw ?*-
• --A-©=
!Q£
'0K111133 HO JSISHI
SCHWEPPES DRY GINCER ALE
A record established by no other Mineral Water Company in the World.
SCHWEPPES Mineral
Waters have held the
Royal Warrant contin-
uously since 1834-
possible to replace the sun below the horizon
and make it rise again.
** * *
A bis crowd filled the Bijou on Saturdaay
when the Willoughby-Geaoh company began its
present Melbourne season with “Mistakes Will
Happen.” The new farce, though not so
glaringly funny as some American farces, is
hustled along by Willoughby, Cannam, Miss Roxy
Barton, and Miss Watts Phillips, and it gets
there just the same. The somewhat ansemic plot
depicts the harmless adventures of an actor and
actress. The pair marry secretly for professional
reasons, but their relations become known to th(
manager, who promptly discharges the offenders
At this stage they meet landlord Hunter Chase—a
lay preacher without and a Lothario within. Th<
sanctimonious ancient gets smitten by the actress
who draws on the susceptible saint in a harmlesi
way, hoping that she may get him interested in a
play that her husband has written and ultimately
lead him to act the part of financier. It is
arranged that the siren is to read the play
to her religious friend in the coach-house of
his palatial abode, said coach-house not being a
favorite haunt of his jealous wife. The latter,
however, being severely sentimental, has arranged
a secret meeting in the coach-house between her-
self and the actor-husband, who is to coach her on
the quiet for amateur theatricals. All the con-
spirators, innocent as well as designing, arrive at
the coach-house, plus a pretty German housemaid
and her sweetheart. The situation goes very
merrily ; one couple is always in the loft and the
other on the ground floor, and they must never
meet, so a delirious flight upstairs and down keeps
the fun going. It is this touch of novelty in the
second act which will keep “ Mistakes will
Happen ” in good going order for the next two or
three weeks.
** * *
“ Ma Mie Rosette,” with Florence Young
as the rustic angel who dreamed she nearly “fell”
upwards, seems likely to prosper at Her Majesty’s
(Melb.) There is human interest in this opera
from the French, and the interest has a giddiness
that appeals to the best regulated families
because the chief sinner is a king. More-
over, nothing unpleasant happens, save in
the dream of Rosette. The king strolls
around looking for new girls instead of fight-
ing the foe, and he finally departs in an odour
of magnanimity, attended by his particular friend
Corisandre, who ought to be ashamed of herself but
isn’t. The opera suits all classes. Miss Young is not
a light, dainty Rosette, yet she gives good value to
the part, and" sings even better than usual. Also
Thorley, as a hard, narrow-mannered Henri,
deserves favourable mention for his warble.
Reginald Roberts, coming after Tapley and
Kenningham in the ungrateful part of Vincent,
is more effective than Tapley. Hugh Ward acts
the damaged residue of Colonel Cognac for all it
is worth. Lauri and Miss Marietta Nash appear
again in their original parts, and the chorus
carries out its important duties with due energy.
** * *
The return of Bland Holt accounted for a
vast, vociferous audience at Melb. Royal last
Saturday, when the greetings bestowed on the co.
could be heard afar. The drama which restores
Bland to his Melbourne flock is “The Prodigal
Daughter”—a large, reasonable work, built for
Drury Lane purposes by Pettitt and Sirgustus
Harris. Walter Baker is charged with nothing
worse than the abduction of another fellow s
indiscreet female in this case, neither does any-
body get murdered for the sake of mysterious
papers, nor are the wrongs of. the prodigal
spinster very distressing, seeing that she
lawfully marries her betrayer in the last act.
Baker, the moderately moral hero, appears to be
saved from ruin and subsequent industry by a
volatile jumping gee-gee. The horse jibbed at
the first fence on Saturday night, but the princi-
pal villain’s horse jibbed likewise, and the others
ran off the track, so Baker’s candidate won in spite
of itself. When the Grand National Steeplechase
has been more fully rehearsed “The Prodigal
Daughter” will meet all requirements. It gives
Bland Holt a good chance to score as Tom Blinker,
the honest stable bloke who refuses to nobble the
favorite for a bribe of 500 quid. Mrs. Holt, as
converted quaker Dorcas, is happily placed ; Miss
Harrie Ireland achieves a strong burst of indigna-
tion, and Miss Ross, Baker, Brown, Arthur
Styan, and Norman lead the rest of the co. on to
victory, a good deal of the victory being due to
John Brunton.
** * *
Wirth’s Circus, where the telepathic
Howard Bros, confound their brother man and
the bucking pony builds its nest, is now in the
third week of a lucrative career. The big tent is
large enough for a hippodrome, and the race track
will be formally opened next Saturday. There
was talk of starting the hippodrome races last
Saturday, but the steeds in training for those
rather dangerous events have been given another
week in which to complete their education. Also
the jockeys and chariot-drivers are presumably
saying their prayers in a spirit of precaution.
** * *
At Melb. Opera House the principal change
of programme last Saturday was a new first part,
dressed in Japanese splendour and marked by a
joyful resurrection of William Whitburn, Esq.
G. W. Hunter came back to notice with a quadrille
dance, but Rudinoff the Renowned was overtaken
by unforeseen circumstances and could not appear.
The debut of Rudinoff will happen next Saturday
(18th).
** * *
Adelaide Royal has opened its doors for a
winter season, that is to last straight on for the
rest of the year. “ The Messenger Boy ” started
on Saturday evening, and continued on Easter
Monday to the usual cheerful crowd just back
from Oakbank races. Adelaide is distinctly a
cheerful place to be in just at present. The Tivoli
has made a sweeping change in its programme,
more than half of the recent company being sent
to Broken Hill. There was no opposition to
Beaumont Read’s farewell at the Town Hall on
Good Friday. On Saturday John Coleman, of
the eccentric legs, came back to the Tivoli after a
long absence; and Inaudi started on his mathe-
matical career before a matinee house of holiday-
makers on Monday.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
State revenue returns for March, 1903, so far as
they can be had :
Revenue, As compared with
March, 'O3. March, ’O2.
Victoria .. £615,424 „ £80,190'
Queensland .. 277,062 „ 9,965
Westralia (?) .. 310,725 .. 4,416
Tasmania .. 62,426 .. 1,976
Decrease.
N.S.W 948,460 .. 47,062
South Australia doesn’t furnish monthly returns ; but
its quarterly returns are referred to further along. The
Westralian figures, being derived from a meagre tele-
gram, are included with the customary inward mis-
givings. Considered in a large and general way, the
position is rather better than it has been latterly. Still
all the difference between an increase and a decrease for
a single month may depend upon whether an executor
hurried up to the Probate Office or not. This current
month even Treasurer Shiels will probably be almost
joyful for a few days because payments are due on two
or three big estates—among them Frederick Sargood’s
and Nathan Thornley’s.
The returns for so much of each State’s financial
year as has gone give a truer idea of how things are
shaping:—
Compared with
Corresponding
Period ~
Avenue. Last Year.
Increase.
Westralia (8 months to end
of Feb.) £2,616,808 £265,300
N.S.W. (9 months to March) 8,234,702 153,276
Tas. (3 months to March).. 197,298 22,028
S. Australia (9 months to
March) .. .. .. 1,765,870 10,851
ecrease.
Victoria(9 months to March) 5,059,502 148,571
Queensland (9 months to
March) 2,519,361 193,154
The Westralian returns are only brought down to the
end of Feb., official figures running no later than that.
S. Australia’s revenue for the January-March quarter was
better than usual. For two or three years past S.A.
farmers have only been able to get such ruinously low
prices for their products that whenever they could they
hung on to it—their hay especially—and this season they
have had the luck which doesn’t usually strike the man
who hangs on to this class of goods. As a result, both
railway and tax returns have improved a little. The
position of N.S.W. isn’t really as satisfactory as the table
would make it out to be. Quarter by quarter of the
current year the revenue has compared with that of the
corresponding part of the previous year like this :
Ist quarter Increase £332,412
2nd quarter .. .. .. Decrease 70,703
3rd quarter Decrease 108,433
Every quarter has thus been less satisfactory than its
predecessor.
So far the figures as to expenditure are, as
usual, very scanty|; they compare with revenues this way :
Revenue. Expenditure. Surplus.
Westralia (8 months
to February) .. £2,616,808 £2,336,234 £280,574
Queensland (9 months
to March) .. .. 2,519,361 2,393,768 125,593
Deficit.
S. Australia (6 months
to December) .. 1,062,624 1,216,109 153,485
New South Wales (9
months to March).. 8,234,702 8,974,458 739,756
South Australia’s position will probably be shown to be
slightly improved when that tired State, in the course of
a few weeks, issues its quarterly expenditure statement.
As to the shocking example, New South Wales, the
expenditure on revenue account during the past three
months has been £346,070 more than it was in the first
three months of 1902, while the revenue has been
£108,432 less. And still there is quite a lot of popular
sympathy with the tax dodger.
Comparing the present situation of the States
which publish expenditure returns with that of a year
ago, we get these results :
Last This
Year. Year. Improve-
ment.
Deficit. Deficit.
S. Australia (to Dec.) ..£215,568 £153,485 £62,083
Surplus. Surplus.
Westralia (to Feb.) .. £273,223 £280,574 7,351
Deterio-
ration.
Queensland (to March).. 126,256 125,592 664
Deficit. Deficit.
N.S. Wales (to March).. 119,115 739,756 620,641
Last financial year South Australia, Queensland, and
New South Wales all closed the year with deficits. On
present appearances, South Australia will show up a
little better (possibly a good deal better) than last year ;
Queensland a little worse ; New South Wales a vast
amount worse.
* * »
The place where the loan-expenditure returns
ought to be is filled for the most part with the customary
void. So far as it isn’t void it is as follows :
9 llios. to 9 mos. to Decrease
Mar., 1902. Mar., 1903. ecrease -
Queensland .. £865,201 ; £714,288 £150,913
N.S.W 3,487,450 3,853,863 366,413
Necessarily, of course, since the Owe’See hasn’t got the
money to spend and can't get it except at a bigger price
than Parliament authorised him to give, N.S.W. is con-
tracting its loan expenditure ; and though in the whole
nine months there has been this increase of £366,413, in
the past three months, comparing that period with the
same in 1902, there has been a decrease of £593,830. This
is, in the circumstances, just about the best feature in
the whole of the returns; and it probably wouldn’t be
there if the Owe could help it.
• • * *
Australian railway returns show, as yet, little
improvement. In the first nine months of the financial
year the Victorian lines have earned £132,513 less than in
the same period of 1901*2, the N.S.W. lines £173,693 less,
Queensland’s £94,101 less. South Australian figures are
now steady ; their big drop occurred just before 1902 was
sighted, when several of the Broken Hill mines shut up.
Tasmanian figures are also steady. And VVestralia is in a
class by itself. When all that has been said, it has to be
remembered that the comparison isn’t with a good year ;
it is, in fact, with the year which had an Australian rail-
way deficit of £1,077,460. That was the “ record ”up to
then : but we shall evidently see a much worse record
this year.
* • • •
According to New South Wales Government
Astronomer’s cycle theory of good and bad seasons, 1876
to 1885 were “ years of drought,” while 1886 to 1894
were “ years of plenty.” But it happens that, in the
first period, the average New South Wales wheat yield
was 15'34 bushels, while in the other period—the fat
period—it was only 12-04 bushels. The theory seems to
leak badly somewhere.
• • *
Pretty well every day now the working-man’s
suburban home is invaded by a person who wants to take
somebody’s life on the industrial plan. There used to be
only two or three offices pursuing this miserable line of
alleged business ; but they made such a comfortable
thing out of it that most of their staffs appear to have
now established societies of their own, and the office-boy
of a year or two ago is the general manager of the Profit-
able and Improvident Insurance Association to-day.
Unfortunately nine-tenths of the business is done with
people who don’t know anything of finance and won’t
read plain financial criticisms ; who therefore don’t know
that on the average, expenses mop up about 14s. of every
£1 contributed ; and the endeavor to check this frightful
waste is consequently a heart-breaking job. So far, in
fact, from the drain diminishing or ceasing, it seems to
be growing more serious. Not only are the office boys of
the older societies going into the business, but dejected
and apparently hopeless friendly societies are now being
used for the same purpose. Concerning one of them The
Bulletin receives a pile of colored literature. Originally
it was the Methodist Mutual Society, or something of the
kind ; next it was the Protestant Union Benefit Society ;
now it is the Phoenix Mutual Provident Society Ltd.,
with 10 directors, a general secretary, and an acre of frill.
It is, so far, only a few months old, and hasn’t had time
to commit many sins of its own; but it has taken over every-
thing belonging to the P.U.B. Society, and those belong-
ings include several things which no respectable person
should care to keep even in his wood-house. When the
Registrar made his last examination. of the society’s
affairs, less than two years ago, this is what he found :
The then value of the society’s liabilities for sick and
funeral benefits was £3680. Against that the society had
£lOO9 balances, and the then value of future contribu-
tions to the funds was £1099, or a total of assets of £2lOB,
leaving a deficiency of £1572. This society had thus no
reasonable expectation of paying more than Us. 6d. for
every £1 which it had contracted to pay ; at any rate, if
taken over as a going concern nobody could reasonably
undertake to pay more than Us. 6d. for every £ which
the society had undertaken to pay. Yet this is the
foundation upon which the Phoenix Mutual Provident
Society builds, and this is the concern into which work-
ing people are being canvassed to drop their coppers.
It seems very likely that the Phoenix Mutual
Provident Society is not so far working very hard to get
insurance business; anyhow, it pushes its medical and
sick and accident allowance benefits to the front in all its
literature. But that doesn’t improve the situation at all.
Under the Friendly Societies law strict compliance with
certain actuarial rules are necessary. Formerly, under a
free-and-easy system, the contributions were rarely fixed
high enough to enable a society to go on paying its pro-
mised benefits ; they did well enough so long as all the
members were young men, but when they began to
develop the infirmities of old age, and when their funerals
had to be paid for, the benefits had to shut up with a
bang. The longer the concerns tried to pay what they
had promised to pay the louder became the ultimate
bang. Thus a man’s only chance to get anything out of
his society was either to fall sick or die with all possible
speed. And just because the man for whom benefit
societies are specially designed isn’t in most cases able to
form even the beginning of an opinion as to whether a
lodge contribution bears a fair proportion to the pro-
mised benefit or not, the State undertook the job for
him ; and the State has rarely done him a better service.
But he doesn’t always realise it ; here and there he still
thinks that the society which offers to pay him, or his
widow, a very large sum for a very small contribution is
the friend of humanity ; and, as usual, he is getting the
offer he is looking for. For though the registered friendly
society may only offer to pay what the State actuary says
it can reasonably afford to pay, and though it must
submit to the registrar an elaborate return of its trans-
actions in order to show that it isn’t paying more, there
appears to be nothing to prevent a body from evading
this highly-necessary inspection and regulation by regis-
tering as a limited liability company and masquerading
as an insurance concern. In fact, the law seems to pro-
vide expressly for itthough nothing that wasn t so con-
spicuous an ass as the law would think of first wisely
protecting the public and then of providing a simple and
safe plan by which the public may be left as unprotected
as ever. m
The South Australian Brewing Co., Limited
(Adelaide) had a very moderate year up to February, 1903
Added
Written to Re- Apparent
Profits. Dividends. off. serves. Reserves.
jg 97 £7,285
1898 £20,244 ( p.c.-£17,500 £l7BB £958 8,241
1899 15,953 5 „ „ 12,600 3229 224 8,465
1900 21,233 5„ „ 12,500 2083 6650 15,115
1901 23,468 5„ „ 12,500 3468 7500 22,615
1902 22,506 5,, ~ 12,500 1250 8756 31,371
1903 13,752 5„ „ 12,500 750 502 31,873
The co. has been hit in several places. In S. Aus. it has
not only been a season in which no one could comfortably
get up a large beer-thirst, but the failure of the harvest
elsewhere has driven up the cost of materials ; and
Broken Hill, where the co. does a large part of its busi-
ness, hasn’t been able to afford much liquor of late. The
figures printed above don’t state the real reserves—only
“"apparent reserves.” Some of the assets are “Good-
will,” though how much is not stated ; but whatever it
is, the reserves mentioned above ought to be reduced by
that much in order to get at the true position. So long
as “freehold and leasehold properties, machinery, plant,
rolling-stock, goodwill, &c.,” are bunched together in the
balance sheet, it is practically impossible to tell how
things stand ; about all, in fact, that can be said with
much certainty is that, after writing off a much
smaller sum than usual for depreciation and paying 5 per
cent, dividend, there remains only £502 to carry to the
nominal reserves ; and that is sailing too close to the
wind to be comfortable.
* * •
So far from there being one long approving
shout for the traffic management of Canadian railways—
the school wherein Victoria’s new Chief Commissioner has
been trained—there have really been some serious recent
ructions. A huge farmers’ deputation lately waited on
the Government at Ottawa and complained that the rates
for short hauls were prohibitive ; it was shown that for
distances up to 25 miles rail rates were generally higher
than road freights. So general have been the complaints
that Prime Minister Laurier has now promised to intro-
duce a Bill next session for the appointment of a railway
commission “ to hear complaints and make necessary in-
quiries, and clothed with authority to fix just and
equitable rates.”
• * • *
Alleged that the Van Diemen’s Land Co.,
which wouldn’t take £8 an acre for some of its estate,
nevertheless pays land tax od a valuation of 6s. an acre.
And it’s only a ha’penny tax so far, too. Premier Prop-
sting has a chance of finding some loose revenue there-
abouts
The London Times and other papers have lately
been snorting at English municipalities for muddling
their business and for rushing the ratepayers into profit-
less enterprises ; and if that is Bull-Cohen’s view of them,
we needn’t wonder that he reaches for a club when now-
adays we put our nose in the shop to ask for another
small advance. For, according to a very late return
compiled by the English Local Government Board, of the
£117,032,923 which these English and Welsh corporations
have borrowed, they have already paid off £16,246,519.
A whole lot of the works don’t pay, and probably
never will pay, working expenses (baths and wash-
houses, for instance, show an average annual loss
of £124,952, and burial grounds, though necessary
enough until people get used to being burned, run away
with £63,784) Yet, notwithstanding these heavy losses
—notwithstanding the losses, so far, on workmen’s dwell-
ings and things to which Australia hasn’t yet got half
way—the Socialistic enterprises of these English muni-
cipalities not only pay interest but also provide a sinking
fund of £1,26U,5UU, besides £193, 274 for depreciation.
And after they have done all that they show a net profit
of £378,281. When the money-lender begins to complain
about debtors who can show such excellent results as
these, it is hard to understand how Australia contrives to
borrow money at all. The railways of the Commonwealth
alone show a net loss of £985,437 in one year, and the
combined sinking funds of these States (£508,520) are not
equal to the deficit which one single State raises without
an effort in one single year.
• m * »
The 58th year of the New York Life Insur-
ance Co., to 31st December, 1902, compared with some
of its other years :
Total Total Out- Added
Income. Expenses. Claims, goings, to Funds.
£ jg jg £
1895 .. 7,796,763 1,619,244 3,455,459 5,074,703 2,722,060.
1896 .. 8,053,407 1,628,670 3,803,214 5,431,884 2,621,523
1897 .. 8,599,400 1,728,702 3,993,715 5,722,417 2,876,983
1898 .. 9,348,131 1,847,549 4,427,956 6,275,505 3,072,626
1899 .. 10,775,980 2,168,393 4,569,337 6,737,730 4,038,250
1900 .. 12,122,329 2,421,921 4,805,725 7,227,646 4,894,683
1901 .. 14,568,426 2,751,748 5,680,944 8,432,692 6,135,734
1902 .. 16,255,708 3,355,544 6,287,031 9,642,575 6,613,133
The figures are getting high enough to make an ordinary
person dizzy. Yet they have been sometimes more
satisfactory. The business has grown, not quite at the
1901 rate, but yet more substantially than in any recent
year with that one exception ; but it has cost more to
get it. The co. has a remarkable record of expansion to
live up to. In 1899 its income increased by £1,427,849 ;
in 1900 by £1,346,349 ; 1901, £2,446,097 ; and 1902,
£1,687,282. The expense rate shows what naturally
happens when a good part of the world gets a stroke of
depression :
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1895 £2O 15 4 per cent. 1899 £2O 2 5 per oent.
1896 20 4 5 „ 1900 19 19 7 -•■ „
1897 20 2 1 „ 1901 18 17 10 ~
1898 19 15 3 „ 1902 20 12 10 „
The rather big increase represents the flogging necessary
to keep going under unfavorable conditions at something
like the same pace that was made under favorable condi-
tions. yNo doubt it pays to get the business, even at the
1902 rate ; though it is obvious that the struggle to main-
tain an abnormal growth may be carried too far.
Still an institution like the New York Life
cannot be measured up on the basis of one year’s figures.
It is too big for that. Thus it would be utterly wrong to
regard it as a reckless rusher after business on any
terms. On the contrary, it is conservative enough to
calculate the interest earnings in respect of the policies
which it is now issuing at 3 per cent., although it last
year earned £4 4s. 4d. per cent, on the average funds.
And this is apart from a very fine profit (£133,396) made
on securities sold. Altogether the transactions'of the co.
under this head have been rather more satisfactory than
they were in 1901. It does even more than show a good
interest-earning rate, though; it shows precisely what
earns the money. Every security held is scheduled ; in the
case of bonds there is added the rate of interest which the
co. is receiving and the total value and the holding ; in
the case of mortgages the estimated value and the amount
of the mortgage. Further, since it is a mutual co., there
is to this again added a notice inviting everyone in-
terested to note the amount for which any security with
which he may be acquainted is pledged, and to inform
the company “ whether or not in his judgment the loan
is a safe and conservative one.” Perhaps, under ordinary
circumstances, the co. does not receive many communica-
tions of the sort; but if it started playing up with the
funds it would —or it wouldn’t —suffer from a violent
shrinkage in premiums received. In any case it is an
excellent safeguard, and one which Australian co.’s are
hereby again invited to offer to their policy-holders.,
• * « *
The N.Y. Life, which has hitherto usually
shown only the market value of the bonds, &c., held as
security, shows now the book value and the market value
separately; it includes, as stated above, £1,359,549,
“ market value of bonds over book value,” as an asset.
This is a large amount, and it suggests a doubt whether
the practice of taking credit for the full market value is
wise ; for things may not always be booming in the land
where most of the co.’s securities are, and there may one
day be a great deal of writing-down to do.
Though N.S.W. Mines Department’s official
statistics for 1902 will not be available for three or four
months it is now possible to state the approximate totals.
Compared with the 1901 returns there is a net shortage
of £368,490. The principal items are :
Coal .. .. £2,178,929 £2,206,598
Silver-lead .. 1,854,463 1,332,460
Gold .. .. 921,282 1,080,773
Copper .. 413,302 308,923 i
Opal .. .. 120,000 140,000
Coke .. .. 105,665 89,605
Tin .. .. 77,315 53,706
The actual increase in gold production is probably much
less than is shown here, as more gold-stone than usual
was brought into the State for treatment, and some of the
product is included herein. The very large decline in
silver-lead production was, on the other hand, not quite
so serious a matter for the State or for Australia as it
looks. Most of the shares in the silver-lead co.’s are now
held outside Australia; and the decline in the value of
the exports (mainly the result of a decline in the value of
metals) meant rather a reduction in the foreigner’s profit
than a reduction in the amount distributed (in wages,
etc.), in Australia. The coal output was by far the most
valuable in the State’s history. The following shows
what a remarkable expansion there has been in this
industry :
1895 .. £1,095,327 1899 .. £1,325,799
1896 .. 1,125,281 1900 .. 1,668,911
1897 .. 1,230,041 1901 .. 2,178,929
1898 .. 1,271,832 1902 .. 2,206,598
The slight reduction in the coke output was due to the
smaller demands for the mineral for smelting purposes,
which in turn was due to the low prices of copper, silver,
and lead.
• • • •
Mr. W. H. Oorbould, who has had charge of
some unsuccessful mines in W.A., is the new general
manager of the Lloyd copper mine, Burraga (N.S.W.) If
his scientific and practical knowledge and administrative
capacity are equal to the merits of the mine both he and
the mine ought to make a highly satisfactory showing
with copper at the present price. Mr. Oorbould is the
fourth manager in four years, which isn’t a bad record.
More has been paid in fees to experts than in
manager’s salaries, and it is a question whether co. has
not suffered in consequence. It will take a better mine
than Burraga to hold up against so much “ monkeying.”
(Continued on page SO.)


David Jones & Co.
“ORIENT” BOOTS.
Special Purchase of American-
made Boots, Black or Brown
Vici Kid,
Pkice
21/=
By Post
22/-
Georges Barrack Sts.
-^SYDNEY.
f m
TRADE MAI
A CAHERA IS A CAMERA
BUT THERE IS A DIFFERENCE
WHICH IS APPRECIATED BY THOSE WHO USE THEiI.
Muyw iwi_
Harrington’s Cameras
have been in use throughout Aus-
tralasia for about fifteen years
and the demand for them to-day
is greater than ever it lias been,
because we are experts and know
all about Cameras.
if
A perusal of our NEW ILLUS-
TRATED CATALOGUE will
convince you that we carry the
largest and most up-to-date stock,
also that the value and price is
right.
i TPTTO . To ™ “i 1 examine our FINE stock of cameras for beginners,
AMATEURS, PROFESSIONALS and EXPERTS, ranging from 7s. 6d., 12s. 6d., 155., 215.,
255., 305., 355„ 40s„ 505., 605., 705., 80s., 905., 100 s. to £5O.
Copy of New Illustrated Catalogue sent to any address POST FREE.
PHOTOGRAPHIC
MERCHANTS,
SOCIETY
PRETTY FANNY’S WAY.
1ST. CHAP: “No fear, old chap, I’m right bower
there.”
2ND. CHAP: “Oh! some other fellow she wants to
make jealous, I suppose.”
John Burns on London clerks :
Many of them had to dress like dukes—on the wages
of dustmen. One of the conditions of their employment
was that they had to be eternally young and infernally
civil. They were expected to have the polished manners
of a Cabinet Minister on the salary of a potman.
And it applies as well to Australian clerks, the
poor slaves who are so revoltingly poor-spirited
that they won’t revolt.
The Wyalong Municipal Council pokes its
nose into the red-hot sectarian row there, and
resolves that if it hadn’t been for “ the bravery,
tact, and good judgment” of the local P.M. there
would have been “bloodshed and murder.” But
it would have been more to the point, while the
Municipal Council was on business with which it
had no earthly concern, if it had resolved that, if
it hadn’t been for the disreputable and unchristian
behaviour of an ill-judged Dill-Macky in trailing
a useless and unornamental fire-stick through the
land, there would have been no blaze to put out.
* * • *
The Bendigo Miners’ Association has
fewer troubles than almost any other big society
in Australia, but an awkward one has been bother-
ing it for months past. Only one man is con-
cerned ; but that man happens to be the presi-
dent—or he was the president when the row
started. While he was in office he was sacked—
he says, because he was president; the manager
says because he couldn’t do his work properly. If
he was sacked because he was president, the
union would show its teeth and issue strike pay to
its president; as it still can’t be sure, though it
has taken a ream of evidence on the question, it
has compromised with itself and paid him a lump
sum to go on with. Meantime it takes another
ream of evidence.
* * • *
A deputation of various shepherds lately
waited on Victorian Chief Secretary Murray and
wanted him to look into the treatment of female
prisoners in lockups. Among the things com-
plained of, Canon Godby wanted a stop put to
the practice of allowing the keepers of disorderly
houses to bail out girls a few minutes after their
arrest and take them back to their old haunts.
Then Murray broke the deputation up by asking
why the parsons didn’t run quicker and bail the
unfortunates out, before the keepers of the houses
got there, and lead them away to brighter and
happier scenes. They hadn’t thought of such a
simple plan as that before, and it was a very much
staggered deputation that gazed at Murray, and
stood uneasily, first on one foot and then on the
other, and finally cleared its throat vigorously and
reached for its hat and brolly.
“ Cheetah ” : Sat on Spencer-
street station t’other day waiting for
my train, and studied the units ambling
to and fro. Nine out of every ten
women walk as if they had a cork foot,
while most of the males that passed my
scrutiny were either martyrs to the
gout or had broken both legs and had
them badly set. Rarely a pleasant
face passed, even the lasses bordering
on twenty, and well developed as far as
limb 3 showed, had harsh visages of the
vinegary order. From the suburban
platforms women flocked, either on
shopping or gossiping bent, their trend
being Block wards the hub of the
shabby genteel suburbanites for at least
one afternoon a week. Few men or
women can fill their boots, or for that
matter, their clothes, decently in Mel-
bourne. The pinch of pride and
poverty is apparent on every hand,
and 300 per cent, more passengers
patronise the second - class compart-
ments on the suburban trains, than
ten years ago. The hardness of visage
so staringly apparent to a visitor to the
city is painful to dwell upon, and one
never really realises the truth (that has
an untruthful flavor of exaggeration
about it) that pervades the “advts.”
addressed to “the prematurely old,”
etc., by the medicos and their minions,
till after drifting through the city and
considering how old the people look.
The oldest inhabitant seems to be
everywhere.
The “ brilliant reception ” of King Edward
at Lisbon, and the “indescribable enthusiasm ’’of
the populace, were humorous cable items for any-
one who knows the poverty-stricken capital of
Portugal. Lisbon bristles with beggars. It is a
city of rags and tatters. A handful of reis (nine-
teen to the penny) thrown around in the street
would secure a brilliant reception for the scatterer
even though he were a Chinaman, and a tawdry
show with a visiting King as star performer
couldn’t fail to knock the grovelsome mob. They
scented backsheesh and shouted accordingly.
Very little backsheesh goes a long way among
philosophical idlers who have learned how to be
happy on sixpence a week. Enthusiasm is awfully
cheap in Lisbon.
THE UNKNOWN.
DAUBER (gazing at Jones's drawing of a £1
note): “ By Jove, old chap, you've a wonderful
imagination.”
The discharge of the jury in the Digby
Grand-Henry Jones murder trial at Sydney,
because a Crown witness was suffering from
partial loss of memory, creates an unwholesome
precedent in criminal history. Unless it is also
established as a principle that in the event of an
accused person’s defence suffering from the illness
or absence of a witness, an empanelled jury may
be discharged, the precedent is altogether unfair ;
and to allow that principle would lead to many
miscarriages of justice. Before a trial by jury
actually opens, the Crown —and, to a less extent,
the prisoner—has the option of postponing pro-
ceedings, and when the Crown brings its charge
into court and has a jury empanelled, the practice
has always been that the trial must then and there
go to its conclusion. Exceptions have been made
in rare cases—the death of a juryman, or the
serious illness of a presiding judge. But there
are obvious reasons why such an extreme step as
the discharge of a jury without a verdict in the
midst of a trial should not be undertaken unless
under circumstances of extreme necessity ; and it
is difficult to see such circumstances in an attack
of “ nerves ” on the part of a Crown witness.
Time is fast approaching when N.S.W.
food adulteration with so-called “preserva-
tives” must stop. New Board of Health
regulations forbid altogether the use of some
chemical preservatives and allow sulphurous,
salicylic, benzoic and boric acids to be used
only under severe restrictions. Consequence
will be —if the regulations are enforced—that
vendors or manufacturers of such articles as
milk, cream, jam, pickles, beer, cordials,
bread, wine, etc., will have to replace
chemicals by care and cleanliness. Milk treated
in a dirty fashion will not show signs of decay
if it is freely dosed with preservatives; but
when preservatives are forbidden, the milk
will have to be kept clean or it will soon pro-
claim its condition to everyone; and so with
other common articles of food. Previous ex-
perience of N.S.W. Board of Health methods
when “big people” were affected does not
warrant too much optimism as to the impar-
tial administration of the new regulations.
When some big fish have been landed it will
be possible to judge of the strength of the net.
• • • •
The pulpits say that the drought is the
result of the Divine displeasure. Possibly ;
anyhow Australia has had bitter drought, bad
credit, big disastrous loans, threatened water
famine, plague, an extra abundance of crows,
grasshoppers and murders, and a dismal run
of ill-luck, ever since it sent its cohentingents
to do arson and butchery on the Boers. And
possibly the Deity won’t be appeased till the
snufflesome and timeserving preachers who ap-
proved of that iniquity are cast out.
♦ * * *
The underpaid draper’s assistant has any-
thing but a happy existence in even the largest
Melbourne rag-shops. If a customer asks for an
article not in stock, and departs without buying
something else, the salesman stands a chance
of reaching the door in his final departure
from the premises almost as early as the customer
himself. No parcel can be carried in or out by an
employee without being closely examined, and
the departing employees even open their lunch
bags for inspection as they leave for the night; yet
when Minister Kingston inspects the boss ragmen
justonceinawhile, their angerat “the inquisitorial
nature of the proceedings” is tremendous. If
Kingston was as inconsiderate to the average
boss draper as the latter is to his employees, he
would insist on undressing the importer at least
once a week to see if he had smuggled property
concealed inside his clothes.
An incident that happens oftener in
fiction than in real life occurred at Melbourne the
other day, when a lady was found in great disked
m a public place because she couldn’t remember
who she was. She was taken to the police static
where vain attempts were made to identify her’
but after some hours a constable with whom she
was acquainted chanced that way, and the sight
of his face set her mind again in the right track
Then her identity came back to her by slow in
stalments. The same lady suddenly dropped her
memory several times before, and should carry a
little tablet at her waist-band, with a few salient
remarks on herself for future emergencies. Incases
such as this the mental pain at losing one’s iden-
tity is said to be intense. There is a lonesomeness
about it that is like no other lonesomeness on all
this earth. As a rule if a lady could lose her
identity and yet remain aware of what a very
ordinary and unprofitable identity it is that she
has lost, she might trouble less. But the feeling
always is that something of immense value has
been mislaid, and a patient who loses her identity
periodically worries just as much as a mere
amateur who is losing it for the first time.
• * • •
At a recent meeting of laundry employees
held in Sydney, certain alleged charitable institu-
tions came in for some pertinent remarks. It was
stated that such institutions were mainly respon-
sible for the sweating rates prevailing in the
calling at present, and it was further shown that
by monetary assistance from the Government,
free water, and by sweating the inmates at the
work for inordinately long hours for their keep
only, they did work for four pence that an outside
unsubsidised laundry is compelled to charge a
shilling for. It was also alleged that carts, horses,
and men of the said “charitable” institutions
were kept running round to the restaurants and
hotels up to as late as twelve o’clock at night.
The hooked-nosed Booth’s method of saving souls
seems to leave a very thin body to take care of
itself.
THE POPULATION QUESTION.
FIRST SPINSTER (decisively): “ And as for
children, I simply can't bear them, can you?”
At Richmond (Melb.), the other Saturday
midnight, a man and his wife who had been away
from home for two hours discovered an elderly
citizen slumbering on a bed beside their two
children. The stranger had treated himself to
supper in the kitchen before retiring to rest, and
when the parents woke him he was surprised to
find them offer any objection to his presence,
seeing that he honestly imagined himself to be a
friend of the family—which he wasn’t. His sole
answer to the subsequent charge of unlawful
intrusion was “a couple of beers.” The elderly
trespasser explained that he always lost his senses
at the termination of a second beer. Sentence, 48
hours’ confinement in a beerless place. The Bench
evidently sympathised with the defence, and it
refrained from making any comment on the case
in its bearings upon the brewer of those two
beers.
UNITED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There came unto Jehosaphat,
With stately steps and slow,
A tall proud ghost with a red, red hat,
A gaitered ghost also.
They came unto the Golden Gate,
An Angel was about—
His halo it was like a plate
That had the bottom out.
They glared a moment ; then they laughed—
“ Why should we make a row ?
We are the Brethren of the Craft—
No use to quarrel now.’’
And one said, with a twinkling eye :
“ I would not be severe,
But ask you simply how, and why,
The devil you are here.”
The parson spoke up, fair and square,
And quietly said he :
“ And were it not for Satan where
The devil should we be ? ”
They walked across the Firmament,
They owned the sapphire sky—
And round the Universe they went—
Dill Moran, Pat Mackay.
CREVE ROE.
THE STAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He sees a falling star
Shoot through the night—
Silent it falls from far
And dizzy height.
Down ! Down 1 That falling star—
Like arrow’s flight.
And Hope—a falling star—
Sinks through his night;
Silent it falls from far
And dizzy height.
His heart breaks ;—and the star ?
Lost! Lost 1 to sight.
QITS.
WHO LOVED ME NOT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I have sealed red lips with the careless kiss
Of careless love for a moment stirred ;
Told the same old tale with a practised grace
With a wail for the lost ’neath every word •
Plucked the fruit of love from the trailing vine
With ruthless hands and quenchless thirst
As a drunkard seeks in streams of wine
To kill remorse and drown his curse.
But the lips that kiss and the eyes that beam
Are as echoing steps in some lofty hall,
When the play is o'er and the lights are out
And the shadows settle over all.
For my heart to-night is a vacant shrine
Where the fire burns still to the missing
To the girl I loved who’ll ne’er be mine,
The girl I loved who loved me not.
VIC.
J. M'CLELLAND.


Wild’s, in the Sydney Arcade, is the most
fashionable gentlemen’s- hairdressing saloon in
Sydney. Every attention possible is paid to the
customers by six expert hairdressers. Address.—
30 Sydney Arcade, entrance from George-streeb
or King street, Sydney.*
SILVER STAR STARGH.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
k
m
hi;WH:H4fi
It has come ! Sydney articled clerks*
and even full solicitors who are still clerking*
banded together as the Articled Clerks’ Asso-
ciation (a body hitherto regarded as the strong-
hold of musty conservatism and shabby-genteel
johnnydom), propose to form an industrial union
for registration under the Arbitration Act. This
hair-raising scheme was brought forward with
many blushes and much agitated shedding of per-
spiration on the Association’s four-incii collar, and
when neither the heavens fell, nor the Associa-
tion’s well-inked bell-topper grew flat and dejected
in consequence, the Association was the most
astonished body in existence.' The course has
been forced upon the men in consequence of the
sweating which is practised in the profession, and
which has been the unfortunate lot of the law
clerk from time immemorial. Some Of the
speakers alleged that it was usual for them to
enter a solicitor’s office as office boy at ss. per
week, and by the time they reached manhood,
after years of office drudgery, they were given the
bounteous salary of 20s. or 255. weekly, with little
or no hope of getting more. On that wealth they
were expected to keep themselves in stiff 4in.
collars and glossy top fiats, and ape the fashion-
able dude generally. We all know the
legal person who eats, in the secrecy of “the
office,” the bread-and-jam sandwich which he
smuggled in like a hidden crime, and then
goes to the Hotel Australia steps to pick his
teetji; but the mystery is how he saved enough
to provide the said sandwich regularly. Now
that the legal crowd has pocketed its pride and
confessed to the ownership of a “ stummick ” like
any common Bill and Jim, and allowed that it
rnu-t be filled, it is to be hoped the superiah bank
official, who runs about town with a bag at a
screw somewhere near thrippence per week, will
follow suit. Then the common or garden com-
mercial pen-driver, who would have unioned long
ago but that he shivered at the prospective cold,
surprised stare of the law and bank persons afore-
said, may follow.
* * m •
“ Briner ” : I propose that there should
be shore inquests on every sailor lost at sea. The
other day a ship came into Melbourne having lost
two hands. Since then there is a pitiable case
of the loss of a sailor boy, aged 18. He swam
half a mile ! Probably these affairs are all right,
but how much more satisfactory to have an inves-
tigation in every case. Further, I want every
sailor to have a vote for Parliament. Conse-
quently, whenever an election is on, the sailors
in port would come and poll. Believe me, this
would have a tremendous effect. Politicians have
a wonderful regard for the life of the man with a
vote.
%
A$ CHIC CAN GE_
- s 'CEN|e.D
raj and DainTV .Shoes
ca T"^ 1 r»EH\«°NjEO MAY ipsc
<tS)TnL orv ML ThE-MEIN M|U S Y OoJe_
2_isTe/n 1 I HAVE. Got * v6]E_
THE LATEST ATTRACTION.
A Queensland paper reports :
Of 11 cases heard during last week in the Cairns police
court, one was a Kanaka being supplied with grog, one
a wages squabble between Hindus, two Kanakas assault-
ing a cane farmer, one Malay housing an aboriginal gin,
one walk about Kanaka ditto, one Japanese ringleader in
a street fight, one Kanaka serious assault on a Hindu
The law abiding colored alien !
* * • *
The brilliant originality of the suburban
alderman person. The Boroughs of Five Dock
and Druminoyne, (Sydney) having amalgamated,
it was discovered that, unless things were sorted
out, the new combined municipality would be
suffering the infliction of two “King-streets,” two
“ Day-streets,’’ two “Sutton-streets,” two
“ Denning-streets,” and two “Perry-roads.”
After protracted, concentrated thought, the
local aldermen proceeded to fix things up thusly :
They turned one “Ferry-road” into “Wharf-
road,” tprned one “King-street” into “Queen-
street,” and when a duplicate street was named
Smith-street after Bill Smith, they called it Bill-
street instead.
“T.C.,” like the prophet Ezekiel, sees a
vision:—
Witnessed a catastrophe the other Saturday afternoon.
Was standing on Melbourne G.P.O. steps, watching the
banked masses of brown dust-clouds overhead, and the
thick black avalanche of disaster rushing up from the
west, and was wondering how long it would take to
happen, when it happened—in a sheet, a deluge. In
five minutes the Bourke-st. hill was a seething creek, and
the Elizabeth-st. gully at the bottom was a foot deep in
the gutters. Just then a Brunswick tram stopped and a
vision emerged. It was a summer vision, in cream silk,
chiffon, lace, and filagree net work, and was adorable, but
it wasn’t built for this climate. It looked for a minute at
the sheltering P.O. Arcade and the Niagara between
that and the tram —then dived. In three steps
the pretty shoes were pulp, and the rounded
shoulders were outlined through the sopping silk,
but the vision plunged on. Then the tragedy 1 In step-
ping on the pavement the sodden slipper gave or slewed,
and before she could recover the lovely spectacle was a
mere piece of flotsam in the gutter. The watchers on
the P.O. verandah got a glimpse of a shapely pair of
stockings—the head that belonged to them was under
water ; then one man rushed down and picked her bodily
up and carried her to shelter. “ I hope you’re not hurt,"
he said “Never mind that,” she hissed ; “if you really
wish to help me go and get a cab.” He drenched himself
to do so, then packed her away carefully therein, got in
himself, and drove off. He was a brave man and a wide-
awake, and it's to be hoped he got his reward. If she
didn’t kiss him when she got home and was dried and
blotted and ironed, there is no gratitude in woman.
* * * *
Melbourne of late appears to have a dis-
appearing woman always on hand. A few weeks
ago a woman and her whole family of five children
vanished, and it was not till some days later that
the five were found in a public institution where
they had been dropped under mysterious circum-
stances. Now Melbourne is worried over a young
wife of 19 years who hasn’t been seen for two
months. The worst feature of the case is that
when the woman is found the public is seldom
offered any sufficient explanation of why she was
lost. The story just breaks off, and the results
are not commensurate with the previous excite-
ment. An impression is beginning to grow up
that, in the interests of literary finish, the lady
who is found after keeping the public awake at
night for two weeks by her dramatic vanishment,
should be required to explain things in order to
prevent an inartistic and unfinished tale lying
about. There is a prejudice against the applica-
tion of torture, but literature must be considered,
and if the lady won't furnish the balance of the
exciting narrative it may yet be nei essary, in the
interests of dramatic unity, to suspend her by the
wrists with a paving stone attached to her feet till
she does. Dramatic unity is a great and essential
institution.
* * * •
“Investigator” writes on a subject that
will shortly have to be dropped :
I have been intimately acquainted with women who
bathed in the rough serge provided by the bathing
machine, with women who wore “costumes,” and with
damsels who took a header in the creek. I have known,
I should imagine, about 3000 women and girls. Neither
bathing, nor under other circumstances, have I known of
one of them appearing to mortal eye in the altogether.
Such a one would be considered “dreadful.” The
feminine idea of disrobing is the almost imperceptible
substitution of one garment for another. Observe
feminine language. “ I couldn’t come down ; I had
nothing on.” “Nothing on” in the idiom feminine
meant merely that she had about one garment less than
usual.
The Bulletin also receives a letter from an indi-
vidual who says he surprised 15 nude girls bathing
in the Hawkesbury; one from a lady who says she
and four other nude ladies go bathing daily in a
Western river ; one from a man who says he saw
afar off half-a-dozen wholly unclothed ladies bath-
ing in that same river ; and one from a lady who
states that a friend of hers took her shower-bath
with several of her clothes on simply because she
(the first lady) was in the bath-room with her.
And the rush of letters from outlying parts of
Australia hasn’t begun to arrive yet.
* • * *
Premier James of Westralia says he has
no hesitation in saying that the building of a rail-
way to connect Westralia with the eastern
States will be a profitable undertaking, and one
day he hopes to hear that the porters at Redfern
are calling out “Take your seats for Wes-
tralia.” The point that James overlooks is that
the old station seems likely to fall down soon,
and it doesn't seem as if the Ovve’Sullivan could
raise the money for a new one, and by the time
that porter is ready to call out there is a very
fair chance there will be no Redfern station for
him to call in.
LOOKING FOR WORK.
JIM (to his wife): “Get any work
yet, Liz? ” LIZ: “ No.”
J IM: “ Well, you'd well better
hurry up; this is two days
you've been out.”
Again the sordid row about the bill:
Maryborough (Vic.) invited Governor Clarke to
come and see the firemen of the country parade in
their magnificence. The Governor therefore hap-
pened along, was given a moderate feed, and sent
home again. Then the bill for the carriages,
decorations, &c., came in, and there were rows as
usual. The bill only amounted to about £l2, ,
and the council, being informed, to its sur-
prise, that it couldn’t be legally taken
out of the rates, asked the Mayor to pay.
The Mayor declined. Everybody else declined,
and the bill is an unpaid desolation to this day.
The Governor now sees daily in the papers some
development of the shindy about the price of the
victuals he ate, and to a sensitive man it isn’t nice
to be asked out to dinner by a crowd of people,
and then see them engage in a free fight because
they all repudiate the bill. Under these circum-
stances the guest feels a great desire to pay the
bill himself, and then tell his hosts to invite a hog
to dine with them next time, that animal being
about their size in point of refinement.
• • * *
Primate Smith’s explanation to the British
public of the unemployed in Sydney is that,
instead of going on the land in the backblocks,
they lean against posts in town. An ancient
enough gag, but by no means venerable. But did
not the same Primate, a couple of years ago, lay
down the principle that he would not station one
of his clergy in the bush unless the people of the
place provided him with a house and a fixed
stipend, but would rather keep him leaning
against a post in the town ? If the Church is no
better at pioneering and going on the land than
that, what right has it to grumble ?
• * • *
“L.M.N.”: The “medicated flounder”
of a recent Bulletin par (28/3/’O3) was probably
nothing but a mud flounder. Quantities of these
fish are sent to Melbourne from the Gippsland
lakes. Mud gives them their peculiar ‘ ‘ medi-
cated” smell and taste. They cost the shop-
keeper much less than those caught in the sea,
but are sold at the same price to undiscriminating
customers. Fishmongers, as a rule, do not pre-
serve their stock except by freezing. This isn’t
owing to conscientious scruples, but because
Demetrius Phriedphysh seldom knows about the
more educated fakes of commerce.
* * * *
Charters Towers (N.Q.), will soon resemble
one of Kitchener’s camps if its multitudinous and
dirty aldermen, councillors ai.d boardsmen don’t
stir themselves. During March, 26 children died
on Charters Towers from diarrhoea and gastric
enteritis, while there were four deaths from
typhoid fever. Thirty child deaths in one month
from three ailments only, in a town of 5000 popu-
lation !
“ Wiljar ”: Be the brutal
squalor of Salxarmy administration
(B. 14/3/ 03). When Booth’s cir-
cus some years ago brought its
cornet and hallelujah to the
township where I exist in a sort
of fashion, the coin used to rain
on the big drum like buttons.
The “testimonies” of the
back-slidingdrunk and erring
Molly, besides causing
horses to bolt, “ fetched ”
the usual silly crowd,
which emptied much
coin into the cap**’ Yet
the officers just con-
trived to live, in a
gaunt, dry bread sort
of v ay. Presumab y
“headquarter s”
took nearly every-
thing. Later, when
the “saved” push
(of 18 or 20) drifted-
back to its long beer
and its two-up and
the audience all sat in
the front row, the cap-
tain and her mate
roughed it to the
point of starvation,
and sometimes be-
yond that point. Two
thinner, sadder, more
clothes-proppy females I
never met ' While visit-
ing in the bush- f have known
these two animated Christian
skeletons in skirts to walk
37 miles in a week merely
for the sake of dropping in
at places where there was
some hope or possibility of a
snack. This was extra walk-
ing, in addition to the hust-
ling after souls, and after
coin to pacify that ravening
worm “ headquarters.”
* * *
Australia has already
to a great extent uncon-
sciously copied, in its land
regulations and its rules
with regard to employ-
ment on State works, the
old Roman law that married men only should
be allowed to become State functionaries. If
the system were extended to give further pre-
ference to couples with large families, probably a
good deal of “the population problem” would
disappear. Fathering a family as a qualification
for a billet “under Government” would have its
charms.
• * * *
“Yon Dam Synner ” writes: “ The
Bishop of Melbourne has nothing new in the way
of prescriptions for the men who, alas ! never go
to church, but drift almost unconsciously away
from God. The Bishop states that in these
shocking cases a cure can only be effected by
‘ tender pastoral care and constant visitation on
the part of the clergy.’ Now, speaking from my
own experience, I would say that the hardened
non-attendant at church is not likely to apply to
the nearest vicar for tender pastoral care and con-
stant visitation. As he isn’t taking any religion
on Sundays he does not ask a soul doctor to come
and feel his spiritual pulse during the week. It
stands to reason that some qualified practitioner
or other must come on his own and administer tlje
treatment Bishop Clarke prescribes, if an ‘ uncon-
scious drifter 1 is to be saved. But nobody comes
from the Anglican Church Pastoral Association.
I have lived in a dozen different parishes of Mel-
bourne, without receiving a single call from a
tender pastoralist. The Salvarmy people strike
me regularly for a silver coin, the local candidates
for Parliament look after my vote when I’ve got
one, but hang me ! if any paid servant of the
Lord has ever troubled about my soul. That’s
why I stay away from church. Bishop Clarke’s
business, I suppose, is to see that all absentees
like myself are properly canvassed. I’m waiting
to see whether he attends to his business.
* * * •
The alleged “ serious exodus ” from Aus-
tralia to Canada is put down to Canada’s superior-
ity in the matter of climate; “you can depend
upon some sort of a harvest there every year.”
And, with extremely rare exceptions, so you can
in Australia —in the right places. But as very
much of these right places are sheep walks, and
not even carrying as many sheep as they might,
the people are crowded out on to the fringe of th'e
desert itself. Then of course they fail, and curse
Australia, and leave it. No country can be great
if it makes its people feed on the husks.
.*• * *
Westraliah Judge Burnside is putting up
a record in death sentences. At Kalgoorlie re-
cently, when he had only been two weeks on the
Bench, he donned the black cap for the tenth
time. The nationality of the condemned
affords a study for the advocates of a piebald
Australia —six French, a Greek, a Japanese, a
Manilaman, and an aborigine. And their victims
were a Swiss, a Greek, a Japanese, a Chii aman,
and an aborigine. There have been 37 persons
executed in Westralia since 1883; nine Europeans,
13 Asiatics, and 15 aborigines. The Asiatic, oh
this showing, may be set down roughly as 30
times more murderous than the white man, which
is a bad advertisement for the mild Hindu and the
patient Chinaman.
• * * •
There are again “ dissensions ” in Sydney
art circles. The two rival societies married for
money and each finds now that the other hasn’t
got any.
THE ISLE OF DREAMS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Comes to me all day a longing, though in happy mood I
be,
For an island home of gladness for my kindred souls
and me.
For an isle of Freedom's fancies in some crooning sea
afar,
Aye, crooning ’neath a pallid moon, beneath a burning
star.
O the glories and the gladness, and the Life so pure
and free,
O the homes on silvered beaches, by a splendid sunset
set,
On that far-off, favored island where Life’s glories never
pall—
With “goodwill” there for our watchword, peace and
joy on earth for all.
Ah, the restless waves that wash the shores will sing our
songs in glee
(O the songs of faith and freedom, and of endless
ecstasy !),
And we’ll know no hate unstinted there to pain us all
our lives
(O the homely joys and comforts with our weanlings and
our wives !)
And our children in their freshness shall be favored, fair,
and free;
And they’ll live, and love, and marry, and be happy as
can be
(O the trysts on silvered beaches when the sparkling tide
returns !
O the walks in moonlit gardens ’neath the reddest star
that burns!)
Hear the servile cults and craven 1 Hear their croaking
voices call:
“ One Greed for Gain, one Bitterness, one sorrowed Path
for All 1”
. . . And my kindred souls forsake in dreams the land
where sorrows are ;
And their quest—The Dreamers’ Island ’neath a far-off
crimson star.
GILROONEY.
TWO WAYS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh haste thee, Time —
Why loiter by the way
In Frost and Rime
’Neath skies so thick and grey ?
Oh haste ; my Love’s aivay !
Oh rest thee, Time—
Why in such haste to fly ?
When carols chime
And happy hearts beat high—
Oh rest; my Love is nigh 1
The Young 'UN.


the Matter of Dress attention to Detail Indicates Breeding.
EVERY LADY KNOWS -
KLEINERTS HOOKON
■a THE oklv Correct Hose Supporter
Sold only at the Best Shops. T ° W ° ar W ‘ th th ° NEW FORM CORSET
MR. J. SPENCER NOLAN, R.D.S.,
DENTAL SURGEON, 43 Oxford-st., Sydney
SaSESSS^SSS
N« V
<o
&
o
o
&
o
S'
o
O
6*
WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
ZITILINE
Cheapest and Best Line in the Out.
5000 YARDS DOUBLE WIDTH ZITILINE
CLOTH,
The Fashionable Dress Material,
in Yieux Rose, Roseda, Electric Cardinal,
Grey, Myrtle Navy, Black and White, etc.
1 /7 2" PEK YARI) -
Patterns Post Free to any address.
W. T. WATERS & CO. LTD.
“ The Leaders of Fashion,"
King & George Sts., SYDNEY.
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WT
W
WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW WTW
Dress Fabrics
Are Stocked bv the
Leading Drapers.
maVkTHE varnished board*’
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, April 14, 1903.
My Dear Abini,—
Much Progress and no Poverty apparent at
Koyal Agricultural Show, opened by State Gov.
Kawson last Thursday. Amongst other speakers
was the other admiral—Fanshawe. What fine
voices these sailors have! Developed through speak-
ing above the noise of a congress of hurricanes,
tornados, and cannon rolling about the deck, I
suppose. The Governor-General came an hour
later and opened the show some more. Asserted
his delight at being in Sydney. Well, if he’s here
for a few years he’ll soon look his age. Our
climate is unrivalled for making you look what
you are—only more so. At present, Gov.-Gen.
does not look an eighteen fifty-twoer, not by ten
yea J S i In his T rinit y days, Lord T. used to take
medals for orations on dead poets. He now looks
and talks as if he knew all about farming and
blights and bugs and pruning, and nothing else.
He mentioned that wheat from Australia sown
and grown on his home farm in the Isle of Wight
had obtained a prize medal at International Ex.
in London. (Cheers.)
An hour at an agri. show leaves the brain
seething with memories of steam hammers, pul-
*®y®, cranks, toothed wheels, wildly-whirling,
whizzing belts and pumping of water. And iii
one sears is the crowing of the champion cocks
and the barking of the champion dogs. Some nice
dogs at the Show. Dryburgh Phyllis, a beautiful
collie with a soul behind her brown eyes, took
first and championship prizes and honored the
Governors by shaking paws with them.
w S^ e „ one ou e ht to have told State Treasurer
Waddell to go and take an arsenic cocktail the
other day, when he floundered into poetry about
a 6 a S ed P° or and t^ie^r Pensions. The amending
Act, he said, “must ensure to the aged poor who
are really entitled to. pensions, an amount suffi-
cient to keep them in comfort and happiness
until a good old age, serene and bright and lovely
as a Lapland night,’ shall lead them to their
j j V0 ‘ M r \ Waddell does not propose to
a s*sr Another shilling to the already-granted ten
shillings a week pension. Brightness, serenity,
a ? , ii'° ve^iness ’ anc comfort, and happiness on ten
shillings a week! One attribute of a Lapland
night is common to an old age pensioner’s, and
that is—cold. Also Mr. Waddell asserted
Nothing imaginable can absolve a son or daughter, if
able, from supporting those who gave them birth and
who watched over them with tender care and affection
m their youthful years.
Now the children of that kind of parent, in most
cases, need no State rounding-up. They look after
Darby and Joan without being told. It is the
children of parents who watched over their pro-
geny chiefly with a boot, and a stick, and language
who need compulsion. This kind is not men-
tioned in the Waddelism, so perhaps it is “ab-
solved.
Never did our Governor-General sleep in such
security and peace as at present. The National
Guard is at his palace gates. Other troops are
away for the Resurrection encampment. A
lieutenant is now acting-commandant of
the. Guard. All his senior officers are dead of
senile decay or being wheeled about in bath-
chairs. A few nights ago a friend of mine went
to call on a friend of hers who is stopping at
Government House. It was after eight p.m., and
as she was about to enter the gates a gruff voice
said, “ Halt! Who goes there ?” “ Ermyntrude
Jobson was the reply. “Advance one, and give
the countersign, said the sentry. She advanced
one and said, “Rats.” Then she advanced one
more without being invited, but found a bayonet,
freshly sharpened on a grindstone, on a level with
her belt buckle. And the policeman on duty
opposite the gates refused to arrest the sentry.
, T^ r ' (“Banjo”) Paterson’s marriage to
Miss Alice Walker, of Tenterfield station, was
Tor-k r T^ ed - last Thursday at Tenterfield.
Miss Eadith Walker went up for the wedding,
the bride being her favorite cousin. Admirers of
Banjo s ’ personality, prose and verse, are
taking a friendly interest in his new state, and
asking if his bride is a horsewoman and possessed
of polo sympathy. She is small, very pretty,
with extraordinarily bright eyes, is literary, well-
read, travelled and rich* \iucky “Banjo” !
A.J.C. Resurrection meeting started last Satur-
j u°h weather ! “O, tenderly the haughty
day filled his blue urn with fire.” A big crowd
hurrying to a racecourse reminds me of a Te
• u m j ■ ■ Rushin ? awa y it suggests aDe Profundis,
with discord accompaniments on a Jew’s harp.
On my way to a race meeting I always think that
my holland frock looks as well as any Paris
creation, and that the horse that carries my half-
crown is like the Shakesperian steed—“his neigh
is like the bidding of a monarch and his counte-
nance enforces homage.’’ Coming away I always
vow that an equivalent for a big raoe meeting
would be a study of fine fashion plates, and the
reading of act XII. scene VII. of Henry V. where
the Dauphin and the Duke of Orleans talk of
their horses.
Racing is the most expensive half-day’s amuse-
ment going, and mostly ends in headache. “I
hope the rope won’t make a bad mark at the
side of your neck,” is the Sherlock Holmes-ism
I always throw at the bookmaker who gets my
tuppence on the losing horse. And these
thoughts give one’s face a vicious look. Once,
along time ago, at my first race-meeting, I won
16 threepenny-bitson asweep, and nearly wentmad
with joy until the 15 losers (we were all in
the flapper stage) began to cry. So what could
Ido but generously refund—l dropped the bits in
the long grass where they were half-a-day hunting
for them. Of course you would miss a lot by stay-
ing away. You’d miss the woman who appears
annually in a transparent skirt over bloomers.
You’d miss the woman who was there on Monday
under a hat sewn with pink sea-shells, a scallop
shell in the front of her belt, a coral necklaoe, a
star-fish embroidered on her gown, and a shark’s
tooth bangle-pendant ; we christened her the
Maritime Miscellany, and judged her tonnage at
14st. You’d miss the woman —she was there by
hundreds on Saturday—who flew long streaming
pennant ribbons. “I wish I ’ad ’er,” as the old
Hawkesbury farmer said at the September meet-
ing, “ to keep the birds off my cherries.”
Another loss would be not seeing the two
Governors (Tennyson and Rawson) in their drab
top-hats. That hat of Lord Tennyson’s was
bequeathed to him by his late father, along with
some of the unpublished poetical sins of the
Laureate’s youth. That of Sir Harry is about mid-
Victorian. Lady Tennyson, in her modest fallow-
deer tint, was as nice as one of her English thrushes,
and Lady Rawson’s sweet face is one of the few
women’s faces that in repose does not look sad or
worried. Well-dressed Melbourniennes came in
squadrons, and on the whole were better dressed
than local society; but, dear, dear, they looked
five years older than they did the corresponding
meeting last year. No doubt they will go back
saying, “I don’t know how those old Sydney-
siders have the face to go on living—let alone
dyeing
Some excellent dressing was abroad, but nothing
to make one exclaim “ the riches of the ship have
come on shore.” A few artistic Suzanne gowns,
showing the effect of the Durbar, leavened the
dress parade. One, in particular, worn by a
pretty little woman, with big brown eyes, was a
brown frieze with Indian embroidery in shades of
cinnamon-brown and gold.
Miss Eadith Walker disappointed many by not
appearing in Delhi-Curzon-Camp clothes instead
of simple black and blue. The most striking-
looking woman amongst the thousands on the
lawn was the wife of General Manager James
Mills, of the Maoriland U.S.S. Co. She carried her
unusual height as easily as the uncommon green
hat on her fair head. Most very tall women are
about as graceful as camels.
The Good Friday bun was not baked this year
in the same profusion as of yore, a baker tells me.
It is going out with the valentine and the Guy
Fawkes pageant. One objection to it is that the
currants are not always washed, and it makes the
sorrowful day more painful to find your teeth
grinding grit. A seasonable joke of Dan Leno’s :
In one of his impersonations he explains that,
owing to the peculiar customs of the country,
he is prevented from working more than one day
in the year—“putting the crosses on the buns for
Good Friday.” On all other week days in the
year his wife takes in washing.
Cardinal Moran repeats a modest request to a
thousand—any thousand—of the faithful to sub-
scribe not less than a guinea each for presentation
to painter Thaddeus in recognition of his presen-
tation of the “Obbedienza” to the local Catholic
body. It was priced (by the painter) at twice
that sum, and his final harvest will probably be
something much smaller. Mr. Thaddeus made a.
gallant effort to sell the affair to N.S.W. Art
lallery—but the effort was happily frustrated.
Last week I met a humorist (female) who
asserted that she had been relieved of an attack of
neuralgia in the eyes by looking over, and trying
on, a just-opened consignment of Paris hats at a
fashionable George-street draper’s. She took me
to see the hats which possess bromide qualities.
I recognised some of them, later, at the Royal
Agricultural Show and at the races. One was a
real Fuschia Fantasy of pale blue felt with great
bunches of purple, white and red fuschias towards'
the front; and at the back (which flattened over
the cerebellum) were sprays of giant maiden hair.
The crown was of sable, a lovely bit of pelt to
keep your grey matter nice and warm in this
Arctio climate. But the fuschias and ferns were
choice. I’ve seen nearly as good growing in con-
servatories. You remember Whistler’s reply to
the lady who purred over him with “Oh, Mr.
Whistler, last evening I saw a sunset the very
same as you have on canvas.” “Very likely,”
drawled the painter, “ Nature is getting on.”
. Another hat was of white felt caparisoned with
tiger lilies and pale-green clematis. If any
woman whose features are out of drawing, or who
has a single freckle, or whose hair is other than
soft, spun gold, like that of Guinevere (in the
Rhyme of Joyous Guard) buys this hat she de-
serves to be caught in a rainstorm the first time of
wearing. And yet another hat carried a big
half wreath of red velvety bigonias and strands of
ribbon twisted cable-wise. The prices of these
triumphs ranged from five to seven guineas. A
third young thing who was inspecting the hats at
the same time pronounced in favor of a
mouse-colored toque (it looked like a piece of
horse-rug, artistically twisted), with absolutely no
trimming save two loops of scarlet ribbon and a
pair of oxydised silver buttons. She had a loud
coo-eeing voice—a fine advertising voice—and she
said the toque was not dear at £3 ss. The sales-
woman smiled, and picked up her pencil to book
the address of the toque’s new home. But the
hat-hunter said briskly, “And now, will you
show me some shilling sailors. I never wear any-
thing but sailors myself.”
Gowning in “Are You a Mason?” is New
York and London at their best. Miss Mollison’s
dresses were made in Heaven—or Fifth Avenue.
They cost—-I forget the number of dollars, but it
sounded like the price of an armor-plated war-
ship, and Canadian Ethel adorns them as a
maple leaf does its stem. A Melbourne girl, Miss
Gunn, a favorite reciter in that city, gives an
artistic account of herself in the small part of
Fanchon. Packed audience on opening night was
made up of the seven States of the Commonwealth.
Two high church clergymen sanctified the stalls.
Warships and Victoria Barracks in the circle,
Federal Premier, Premieress, and the Lachlan
Beatons were amongst those in Mr. Owen Cox’s
theatre-party, and for the rest the house was
filled with those who must have sold their stations
during the 10 fat years when the moon was prowl-
ing South.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“And so, after all, Miss Mignonette Clarke
travels Pariswards in company with Melba. A
sea trip. What a test! Will the odd pair—the
sweet young dreamer with the flower name and
the Stormy One —land hand in hand at Mar-
chesi’s door ? It’s a question. The last few
days the Song Queen broke out in fresh
places. She attended divine service on Easter
Sunday with her guid old ‘popper,’ and main-
tained the Sabbath r6le by calling on Minister
Marshall for a holy good-bye. Her last public
performance was a tribute to Flora. She planted
a golden poplar on the Botanical Garden’s best
lawn and blessed it with a chastened smile.
“Melba is still very chummy with the guber-
natorial Clarkes. They went to Healesville with
her t'other day and visited her brother’s wine-
Elace. Pa Clarke and his daughter are
oth really musical, and true music-
lovers find it hard to be cold to anyone
with the voice of an angel, even supposing her
enemies to be correct in further crediting her with
the manners of a—well, the other sort of spirit.
Lord Dick Nevill has not been quite so often in
Melba’s train just lately because he has been out
of town, spending Easter at Wombat Park
(Daylesford) with the Cobb-Coxes. Mrs. Cox,
before her marriage, was Miss Stanbridge, the
Daylesford heiress.”
“ Melb. Philharmonic, founded 1853, is now in
its Jubilee Year. Its latest recital, ‘Mors et
Vita ’ (Gounod), rendered on Good Friday night,
was its 297th concert, giving an average of six
recitals per year, during the Society’s half-century
of life, ‘ Mors et Vita’ is melodramatic and
sensational, serving up in musical form all avail-
able texts that treat of cinerated sinners and
endless woe. Its ‘ trumpets at the last Judgment ’
and orchestral shrieks of the ‘Rejected,’ set
hearers pondering on their hell-haunted childhood
and the once-popular bogie-hymn, beginning—
Satin is glad when I am bad,
And hopes that I with him shall lie
In flames and chains and dreadful pains.
“Governor Clarke and two attaches had Melba
to look after as well as Mamma Clarke and
Missie. The three ladies wore Lenten black,
differentiating their degrees of conventional woe
by their fans. Mamma’s was coffin-black, an old-
fashioned folding-up punkah with glossy spokes.
Melba s was a Jap. banner-shaped freak, with
white dragons on grey ground. La Petite’s was
a 1 white, a carved ivory trifle. _ Melba’s decollete
black gown seemed to show its wearer stouter
than when she first got back to Australia.
Her upper chest had the cushiony aspect
that rude men are driving at when, in describing
some well-nourished feminine, they say that ‘one
C «- l unc h on her.’ Otherwise the Diva
affected lace sleeves (cream), white gloves and a
dog-collar of sparklers.
“Soloists Horace Stevens and James Wade
provided interesting study in their coiffure-
methods. The former’s dark locks, neatly parted,
were only slightly ‘ waved,’ just a crimp or two
with the tongs, I guess. His colleague’s thatch had
more the air of curl-paper treatment, sort of small
sausage-roll effects. Misses M‘Clelland and Ida
Osborne wore Good Friday black like everyone else
of any importance, except one fashionablelady, who
aired red satin and diamonds. Behind-the-times
suburbanites, who chiefly constitute Philharmonic
audiences, have old-fashioned prejudices against
people over 40 (shall we say?) who affect cherry-
colored decolletage, so they disapprovingly styled
the gaily-gowned personage in question ‘ the
fecarlet Lady.’ In view of this nickmane, it had
quite an eerie effect to see the dame rise and sweep
from the hall, as if in obedience to the choir’s
injunction, ‘ Depart from Me, ye cursed 1 ”
“No sprightlier veteran tenor than Edward
Lloyd has sung in Melbourne. But innumerable
blank spaces must have struck him chilly as he
took his place upon the bleak platform at the
lown Hall. The Lloyd voice deserved a bumper
house. It was practically everything it was said
to be—pure, full, vibrant, sweet, the great voice
of a brilliant artist. His first item—Gounod’s
strenuous ‘ Lend Me Your Aid ’—proved the top
score of the show. Basso Peterkin also dashed
into sight, into song, and into favor before one
could remark that he also is not so young as he
was before. Though written down a basso, W. A.
1 eterkin could be easily mistaken for a baritone. ’
‘‘There’s quite a Yankee breeziness about the
Lloyd Concert Co. The tenor of the Rose and
Dewdrop notes gets less rush on than his asso-
ciates; but the basso, W. Peterkin, for all his
length, and dignity and grey age, skips on and
off the platform like a sportive kid. The two
she-sinerers are the slickest of their sex. When
Miss Foxcroft the very plump contralto—was
whirling on for an encore turn, her gay chiffons
were held by an inopportune nail below the plat-
form, bhe tugged, then Benno, the white-maned
tugged and finaHy she skipped forward and left
a tuft of chiffon on the hook. Miss Jean New-
man is the belle of the party. Her Nile-green
garb, with its foamy frills, had the favorite Yank
clump of silk at the left ear and the left belt side.
• i he scafctered Lloyd audience oTsS 5 *
mgi.t the most conspicuous fig Ure
merchant Butler’s wife. She wo™ a hat of
though somewhat showy gown on th« Z, SUperb
which were embossed gorgeous butterflies tKl?*
of which are only to be seen and desired in lu®
Asiatic markets. Most people who have tl, n he
Asia-wards (to the region we foolishly call
Bast, because it lies about north-west rei
with a craze for unique and sometimes bfi °
dress-decorations. When they hav“ su&
accompaniments the effect is all right Ton In
however, they are spoilt for want nf k otten >
The tricky trifles of Japanese origin, fm-
are foolish when laid about the corsage or necWf
an Amazon, just as the great Creole gold
are ridiculous in the ears of an ancient hag. P
“Olive Kingston, who is branded m.' i .
trained, and undoubtedly is one of ! ’ 6Sl '
singers of the South, refused a tempting^' ofW
the Musgrove management to trip and tootle J
the princpal fan-y scenes of the Dream Dram
Had Miss Kingston been allured by the fS
lights, she would never have returned A
wards, for « flattering offer to ~££ in 1“ K
opera at the end of her term with Marchesi »
refused, and the gifted Victorian returned to
home and mother. Another thing; she k
gaged, in the matrimonial sense; and no Wr
courts the stage as a form of rivalry. er
“ The impressive wife of ‘ Oriel» Sandes ha,
dropped her plural name, and slipped back to
simple ‘Clare Berry ’ for stage purposes 81*
resumed her spasmodic footlight course as t e
Hippolyta of ‘Midsummer Nights’ Dream'
Saturday night, and queened it over some
stunning amazons with severe, somewhat heaw
impressiveness.
“ A certain dowered dame ends the lone term
of widowhood immediately. The knot is to be
tied in private. The particular Barkis, as a nro
bationer, has proved, during the period of engage
ment, a pattern of dignified propriety. 8
, *‘. Gr ® at ‘daughter of the fatted calf going on at
Cliveden. The Hon. fiance of Miss Marv
Clarke is expected this week, and on the length of
his furlough depends the date of the knot-tying.
“In the case of a recent envied dazzler sup-
posed to have captured a moneyed, titled, family,
treed, handsome young bachelor, it may’be men
tioned, without prejudice, that the party isn’t
handsome, young or ‘ treed.’
“Miss Roxy Barton—the attractive star of
Willoughby’s laughing shows—is a favorite with
certain smart people this side, and she faced
the Bijou footlights in ‘Mistakes Will Happen
Saturday night, in some frocks worthy of the
attention of her circle friends. The most success-
ful was a white silk and voile, double-tired, with
a streak of coral pink making down the front] from
neck to toe. Black brackets of silk braid’ were
appended here and there with good effect. Roxy’s
coiffure wants re-casting. Its flat, scattered coils
don’t hit the fashion mark. A delicious pink
gown is very nearly spoilt by too great a flutter-
lt’s all frill and flying ends.
“State''shivoos are as water to the sparkling
wine of Federal junkets. Society tilts its nose at
local politics (plain Yan Yean water, don’t you
know) and let the Prorogation, the other day,
take care of itself. So it turned out frumpish!
Even the absent-minded female who presented
herself without a pasteboard (once an entirely
criminal offence) had her glib excuses accepted,
and was passed in with a blessing.
“In the V.R. perch at the Prorogation, the
South Australian Ways sat with Lady Silverlocks
and Co. The little Chief-Justice in pebble specs,
and grey outfit cast his ferrety eyes about the
scene. Lady Way sat up to her superior
inches, her handsome head skewered to a proud
position, but her pleasant mouth making amends
by its good-humored scrolls. Miss Shylie Blue is
dubbed a beauty—in the Holy City. Lady Silver-
locks looked so much a picture in her blue and
cloud grey as to suggest the need of a suitable
frame. Little Miss Mignonette had blue in her
snuff-colored dress matching her eyes.
“ President Wrixon’s tea party, as a tall-off to
the fall of the Parliamentary curtain, was not a
crowded affair. It was small and official, no
frills, no band, no orchids. He himself took no
part in it, having retired at the earliest opportun-
ity to the background. His dame—one of the
Money Miller plan —had a swagger black dress to
suit the occasion—and all her family present to
help pass round the sandwiches. Mrs. Edward
Miller wore something in the fashionable indigo
blue shade—less showy than is her wont. Miss
Geva Stanley, in a washing frock, was a bright
pebble on the beach for all the plainness of her
outfit. A large dame of spherical form had a
wonderful laying on of gold filigree, chainlets,
medallions, brooches, lace-pins. No hope for a
surprise party to burgle her premises—she had ’em
all on.
“ The Austral Salon is letting off steam with a
vengeance. That pie-crust promise of Melba was
broken. These days a lion issoseldom lassooed that
one of any mane is hailed with enthusiasm.
Well, Melba promised to attend one Monday and
have her mane stroked by the Salon associates,
and in their innocent delight they ran and got a
vegetable trophy. This they sent along, with
hand-painted streamers, to the Lady of Moods.
And, after all, she failed of her promise, and shed
a smile of mischief, one can imagine, over that
previous presentation. So the Salon snorts and
vents its anger on the name of Melba.
“Capt. Kilpatrick, the new priv. sec. to Gov.
Clarke, is a tall, lean stripling ; in the manner of
his kind is tailored sprucely; and is mainly
characteristic for a nose as bony and acquiescent
as Lord Dick Nevill’s.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


THAT ACHING BACK!
That weary, dreary, dragging backache is more dangerous than you think. It points straight to deadly
Your kidneys ache because they are tilled with painful impurities. Your bad blood, filtering through,
has clogged them with filthy, inflammatory poisons. . ~ m.
Remember, common purging backache pills can never cure you. They only excite the kidneys, ihey
can’t possibly touch the cause of the trouble in the blood.
No, Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are the only cure for aching kidneys. They actually make new blood.
They conquer the inflammation and drive out the poison. They cleanse the kidneys and stimulate them to healthy
action. Then your backaches vanish ! Read this positive proof :
GOULBUIN IMPORTED CURED. —Mr. C. Waugh, importer, Auburn-street, Goulburn, says : “ A slight
pain in the small of my back increased until the agony became unbearable. I lay awake at night for hours, tossing
helplessly in bed. My appetite fell off, my nerves became unstrung, and I lost all energy and brightness. Then rheu-
matism, with its aching, gnawing pains, attacked me in the legs. My muscles stiffened up and I could hardly move.
The best medical treatment seemed useless. Then a neighbor recommended Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. One box did me
so much good that I continued them. Soon the cruel backaches and kidney trouble vanished, the rheumatism eased ofE
and my muscles became relaxed. Three boxes cured me completely by stimulating my kidneys to healthy action.”
Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney. 2s. 9d. a box ; six boxes, 15s. 3d. Medical advice free.
Refuse to deal with all retailers who offer you worthless pills dyed pink as substitutes for the genuine Dr. Williams Pink Pills.
Dr. Williams Pink Pills for pale people
PERSONAL ITEMS.
It’s good news to hear that George Turner
has decided to stick to politics.
Long Bill Lyne’s brother, Carmichael, is
Minister for Lands in the new Tasmanian
Government.
Mr. Varney Parkes, relieved from the
Rocks Advisory Board, has again entered the
political arena : but he raises no dust now.
Stated by those in the know that Chief
Justice Darlev will only return to N.S.W. to
wind up his affairs, and will then quit Australia
for good.
The Boer curse ! A burglar asked Judge
Rogers lately for a lenient sentence, on the ground
that he had served in the Boer war of 1881. His
Majuba was 18 months.
Fred Trollope, Land Board chairman at
Hay (N.S.W.), who is just getting out of the
mulga and the malleeon six months’leave, is ason
of the late Anthony Trollope.
Labor member Lesina, the stormy petrel
of Queensland State Assembly, says he is going
to give it best at the close of present Parliament.
Lesina has been “ suspended ” almost as often as
a South American bank.
Thos. Russell, one of the oldest Vic.
colonists, died at Geelong t’other day, aged 95.
He arrived in Melbourne with Governor Bourke,
of N.S.W. in ’36, one year after John Batman,
and helped as surveyor in the foundation of the
city.
Senator Josiah Symon has a big income
outside of what he earns at the Bar and what he
doesn’t earn in the Federal House. He is a large
holder of property in and around Mt. Lofty, and
is also said to own the well-known Auldana vine-
yards.
N.S.W. Acting-Chief Justice Stephen
announces that he will leave the Bench at the end
of this year, which will give the See Government
another valuable office to fill, if it can survive next
session. One member of the Government, by the
way, puts in many weary hours speculating as to
whether the Government will or will not outlive
a high official whose shoes he has the reversion of.
Softgoods Sargood left over £600,000 and
not a cent for the churches ! Where did he expect
to go to? After getting a send-off too (at the
Dumping Ground) by Pastor Be van, representing
the Congregationals (to whom he belonged by
right) and Pastor Skene, of the Presbyterians
(with whom he had taken a quite recent whim to
worship.) Neither conventicle nor kurruk is in
it. Nor Charity.
MIXED SCRIPTURE .
“‘ And some fell among thorns.’ Yes. Well, and what happened then? ”
“The thieves sprang up and choked them.”
The tallest “ bobby ” in N.S.W. police
force is said to be John Williams, a native of
Port Macquarie (N.S.W.). He stands 6ft. 6in ; ,
and weighs 18st., and when he falls on the push it
is all over with the push. One of his brothers
(there are four of them in the force) is 6ft. sm.
A lady of pleasure explained to a Melb.
bench the other day that the reason why she had
bestowed a black eye and other ornaments on a
street sister was because the latter “ stood before
a mirror in the Equitable Buildings, at midnight,
painting her face.” Giving away the secrets of
the trade.
Premier Irvine, of Victoria, will be 45 in
July. He is a B.A. of Trinity College, Dublin,
and LL.M. of Melbourne University. He has
been 24 years in Australia, and nine m -Parlia-
ment. He stood for the Federal Parliament but
was badly beaten by that nonentity Pharez
Phillips.
Died lately, in South Australia, pastor
Matschoss, who was the Lutheran missionary on
Ballarat in its wild, champagne days, and looked
on while Eureka was in progress. He was an old
colonist even in those ancient times ; so far back
as ’3B he was a missionary among the bfueensianci
aborigines.
Daniel Thomas Meagher, mining manager
who died recently at Kalgoorlie, was a nephew of
Thomas Francis Meagher, “of the Sword, one of
the Irish ’4B men. Meagher of the Sword came to
Tasmania under a life sentence, but escaped, and
making his way to the United , Sfc T t ® S {,
the Civil War in command of the Irish Brigade.
Lord Hopetoun (Marquis of Linlithgow)
must have made “ a nice dry bit ” by selling to
the British Government 110 acres of land at St
Margaret’s Hope, a fishing village on the Firth of
Forth. Anew naval base was wanted, and the
first thing to be done was to purchase a tract of
barren sea ooast from a lord. The earth is the
lords’.
It is sorrowfully remarked among the
people who expected that Treasurer Turners
reign as temporary Minister of Customs would ><
one of peace, that the very big importing firm
whose prosecution he has ordered is the \ ery
last one that would have been suspected. It
B eems to have been the very first one that 1 urncr
suspected.
Rev. Joe Nicholson, who serves the Loard
and Ikey Mo in the capacity of a persistent
mouthpiece of anti-tote fictions, has changed his
location from Melbourne to Maryborough. Per-
sons who notice the misstatements of Rev. Joseph
issuing from a new address will please accept this
explanation.
“ G.” : The reference in Bulletin to the
increasing number of men wearing stays, reminds
me of three Melbourne men I know who struggle
daily into the boned corset. One is a
leading solicitor, another a retired magistrate,
whilst a third is a Freetrade senator. The
senator’s figure is something lovely.
Tom Mann, the English Labor organiser,
at present on tour through Victoria, is already
spoken of as a probable candidate at the forth-
coming Senate elections. Prendergast and the
“ disloyal ” Findley, who was expelled from the
Victorian Parliament as a grovel-sacrifice to
people like McKenzie and Robert Reid, are also
spoken of.
When the late Rev. Chas. Clarke arrived
in Melbourne in ’69 to take charge of the Albert-
street Baptist Church, he announced at the wel-
coming breakfast that he had come out to
Australia “by God’s providence and my wife’s
interference.” He is also remembered by a horsey
phrase in one of his sermons: “We all go lame
somewhere.”
John Garland, the new M.L.A. for Tam-
worth, is an M.A. of Aberdeen and an LL.B. of
Edinburgh, and, as the Rev. George MTnnes puts
it, was “ brought up in an atmosphere of sound
Presbyterianism.” He is the first member of the
People’s Deformed League to get into Parliament,
and if he knows what the creed of his own league
is all about he knows more than most men.
The Hector Macdonald scandal revives an
almost forgotten story of 1847. In that year more
than forty officahs of a crack English regiment
were court-martialled for unnatural offences.
Several of the worst cases were sentenced to terms
of penal servitude ranging from five to ten years.
Others were dismissed from the army. Among
the latter was the father of the present Earl of
Shaftesbury, who closed his ignoble career some
40 years later by committing suicide in a hansom
cab.
“ Jus ” : Be the case of Hector Macdonald.
It has always been the custom in the British
army, when an officer is accused of offences such
as rumor says were alleged against Macdonald, to
give him the choice of leaving the service or facing
a court martial. As the option was not offered to
Macdonald, it is clear that he had bitter enemies.
In Ceylon, as in India, professional native per-
jurers can be procured by the score for Od. a, day,
and Ceylon is therefore a bad place to be tried in
when your enemy is on the bench.
“ Mac.”
writes :
Re close-
fistedness (B.
14/3/’O3). Sed-
don has long
had a reputa-
tion for stin-
giness bo the
fullest de-
gree, and
those who
know him in-
timately say
that he is
getting more
niggardly
every day.
Never re-
member hav-
ing heard of
Sedd o n ’ s
name appear-
ing in a sub-
s ription-list,
and if he
makes any
charitable
contributions
they are
never made
public. Quite
recently, he
offered a prize
of three gui-
neas for the
best story re-
miniscent of
the early days
in Otago or
the West
Coast, and
this magnifi-
cent offer was
chronicled, at
least twice, in
every news-
paper in the
State.
Robert Saddington, who died at Neutral
Bay (Sydney) last week, aged 68 years, was a
member of a London firm, attracted to Sydney in
the roaring fifties by the gold discoveries. He
arrived in 1853 in the Great Britain. He was a
director of the A.M.P. Society in 1878-1881 and
was interested in other life and fire companies.
Mr. Saddington was in the accident which occurred
at Farley railway station, on the northern line, a
few years ago, and is understood never to have
fully recovered from the shock.
Up north they begin to refer to Bishop
Webber, of Brisbane, as about the worst of the
“calamity howlers.’’ Most of his time he spends
in England passing round
the hat; and they
want to know
what kind of
an opinion
must the out-
sider have of
a flock that
can’t keep its
own shepherd
in clothes and
tucker.
A MELB. SPORT —“ THE COUNT."
Miss C. H. Spence seems to have retired
altogether from political circles. Old age keeps
her from appearing on the platform as of yore.
She is, however, still well known in literary
circles. The famous George Eliot and she were
intimate friends and used to correspond fre-
quently. Miss Spence is almost 80, and an Aus-
tralian by adoption—63 years’ adoption.
The oldest R C. cleric in N.S.W. is Father
Rigney—Monsignor—of Smithfield, near Parra-
matta. Born in 1814—the year before Waterloo
—he was ordained in 1837 and arrived in Sydney,
with seven priests, all of whom he has survived,
in 1838. In 1845 he was appointed chaplain at
Norfolk Island, but was recalled en route, as the
penal settlement there had been abolished.
Drowned a few days ago, during a flood on
the Georgina, Frank Pope, one of the best known
and most ingenious men in Northern Australia.
Pope was a good musician, excellent amateur
photographer, ingenious artificer and good fellow
into the bargain. Was employed as a telegraph
repairer in the neighborhood of Camooweal, and
had startled that God-forgotten locality by in-
venting a flying-machine.
Westralia is on the brink of something
quite new in the way of a strike ; E. L. Lobstein,
one of the three members of the Arbitration
Court, reckons the pay isn’t good enough, and
threatens to throw down his tools if it isn’t put
up. Whether he will constitute himself a picket
and surround the court, or whether he will apply
to himself to award himself a rise, hadn’t been
decided when the last boat left.
Premier Propsting, of Tasmania, is a Tas.
native, is aged 42, and has been only four years in
politics. Attorney-General Nicholls is a Vic-
torian, from Ballarat, aged 35, and has had three
years’ Parliamentary experience. Lands Minister
Carmichael Lyne (a Tasmanian, and brother to
Oom Bill) and Honorary Minister Sadler have
also been only three years in Parliament. Chief
Secretary M‘Call, with 15 years’ experience, is
the only veteran in the team.
Imperial Lieutenant-Colonel Bloomfield,
who died at Kenmare hospital, near Goulburn,
recently, was a Parramatta native, born in 1821,
and joined the army in 1843. His father, Capt.
Bloomfield, of Dagworth Court, Suffolk, England,
came out with the 48th Regt., in the teens of last
century. After retiring from the army, the late
colonel resided in England until 1875, when he
returned to Sydney, and was given the easy billet
of C.P.S. at Camden.
The case of H. A. Hough shows how hard
it is to get justice from a Government sometimes.
According to the report of a Select Committee of
N.S.W. Parliament, as far back as 1886, Hough
lost =£2140 in law expenses through no fault of
his own, but mainly owing to faulty administra-
tion in the Lands Department. The Select
Committee recommended his case to the “most
favorable consideration of the Government,” and
there the matter ended. He hasn’t had a penny
from the Government, though he has haunted its
offices for 17 long years with his grievance and
his worn-out boots. His is a hard case, and, in
the name of common justice, calls for some action.
But it has called long in vain.
Vic. magistrates have recently been com-
ing down heavily on the “nipper” who outrage*
the proprieties by bathing in the open without
the moral support of a bathing-dress. This may
be right enough, but the other day, at a most
fashionable watering place, a Supreme Court
judge appeared on the beach about 30 yards from
some ladies and children, and proceeded to enter
the briny in “ the altogether.” The ladies fled,
leaving the judge in possession of the wild, wide
ocean. The local embodiment of the law,
who had been coming that way, girded up his
helmet and fled also, and along a mile stretch
of beach there was presently no living thing to be
seen but a stark-naked judge.
“E.” : All the Melbourne Fitzgeralds one
meets are good-looking men of a similar type.
Nick Fitz., M.L.A., the hard-shell Tory brewer,
is the remains of a mighty foine bhoy. Surgeon
Fitz. can face the camera without flinching ; and
there is a prosperous draper, Fitz., who com-
pares favorably with his noblest shop-
walkers. Then there are the well-featured
circus Fitzes. —thin Dan and burly brigand
Torn ; also brother John, the Sydney bar-
rister, who would pass for a Heaven-born
poet in an advanced stage of respectability.
The original ’Gerald must have made an
easy conquest of several first-class girls
—cousins, perhaps. And Gibbon, the
ancestor of Melbourne’s Bard of Works,
bequeathed some personal advantages to
his posterity. Old man Fitz Gibbon is a
hale, handsome joke, anyhow.
Simpson Newland, sen., compiler of the
prospectus lately issued by the Ninety Million
Acres Land-grab Railway (which document is
being carried round the world by John Darling),
knows a deal of the country north of Port
Augusta, and one time did a good amount of cattle
droving between Adelaide and Goulburn. He
was Treasurer of S. A., under Downer, for a year
(1880-87). He is now 70, or thereabouts, and has
published a book or two, the first, “Paving the
Way,” having seen light some 10 years back.
“ Bobrid ” : T’other day filled in an Old
Age Pension application for another “Fighting
Mac,” who claimed kinship or clanship with the
real article. My hero showed me the first miner’s
right ever issued in Victoria; his name, James
McDonald, was on it. Had fought in the Eureka
Stockade came to Lambing Flat (N. S. W.) and
took a hand in the riot ‘ ‘ agin ” the yellow agony ;
he shows scars gained on several goldfields in less
notable encounters. In the end, old age and
blindness have beaten him and another warrior
goes down!
The venerable Dr. Bowker, who lately
died at the age of 88, gave promise of special
eminence about 50 years ago. Original research
kept him for years on the move. Physically and
mentally he was a strong man. He settled down,
however, to general practice, with a bent to the
woi k of an eye specialist, and did a spell at politics
both in Assembly and Council. He was always
prepared to support any progressive measure that
wasn’t tinged with socialism, but, unfortunately,
he detected socialism in everything, so he was
against practically everything.
About our old friend Gentleman One :
At the Supreme Court to-day James M‘Bride, railway
porter, Port Pirie, obtained an order for a rule absolute
against a legal practitioner, whose name was not dis-
closed, ordering him to pay £27 Bs. lid., with 15 guineas
costs, before April 16, otherwise the applicant would be
at liberty to issue a writ of attachment against the solici-
tor for default, and order that his name be struck off the
rolls.
His name was not That is where
Gentleman One comes in. As to the ordinary
citizen, even if he is only £7 short in his cash in-
stead of £27, his name is disclosed every time.
Adelaide University has lost by early death
still another of its most brilliant graduates, Dr.
W. J. Walker. The son of poor parents he
passed from bursary to bursary, and finally, 15
years ago, won the last of the travelling scholar-
ships granted by S.A. He wanted to be a great
classical scholar, but found that the £2OO a year
wouldn’t run to that line of study ; so he turned
unwillingly to medicine, to which until then he
had given no attention. Nevertheless, he set out
again to win scholarships, and won them bril-
liantly. The strain not only of passing exami-
nations, but also of winning enough prizes to buy
bread and butter, was killing, however, and the
few years which he afterwards lived were packed
with physical suffering and weakness.
Some straggling reminiscences from Mel-
bourne :
T. M. Buzzard, the father of circulating libraries in
Victoria, died near Melbourne recently, aged 78 years.
Mr. Buzzard was of the era when James Oapel and Blun-
dell and Sons flourished in Oollins-street; when George
Robertson was opposite the Argus office higher up in the
same street, and William Maddock (now of Sydney) was
his manager ; when Edward Arnold flourished in Eliza-
beth-street (next door to Michael Oashmore’s corner), and
where this scribe was behind the counter, and Sam
Mullens was in George Robertson’s employment, and the
father of Dr. Phillip Muskett managed the bookselling
business of Ch irlwood and Son, next the Herald passage
in Bourke-street. Mrs. Muskett was a*‘ daughter of the
house.” That was in the Fifties. James Oapel was known
as the bookseller with the snuff-box. He put up for the
Assembly for North Melbourne once and was badly
beaten.


THREE STAR
ATSOVS WHISKY.
Resells Waverley Brewery, Agents.
Aboriglnalities.
To Contributors.— ln the case of ethnological and
natural history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience ; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific
value.
SPORT IN THE SLUMS.
VIOLET : “ What’s de matter wid per chin,
Hyacinth?”
HYACINTH : “ Oh, th ’ old man’s been feelin’ a bit
playful lately."
Extract from the diary of a Cairns hotel
groom :
Monday, up 6.15 a.m.; cleaned boots ; helped clear bar
of bottles; changed water; cleaned water tank and
trough; took out mats and shook; returned mats;
swept round hotel ; watered same (eight cans) ; pumped
water for same ; emptied buckets of slops from kitchen •
emptied rubbish box (200 yards to walk each time) ; car-
ried two large baskets of booze to the bar, long distance ■
cleaned out billiard room and fed two horses ; fed myself
(10 minutes); swept out three sample rooms ; scrubbed
billiard room, fed fowls; carried seven sample boxes;
shook two heavy carpets, and put same down in room up-
stairs ; cleaned 180 knives and ran a message : had a beer
and paid for it myself; fed horses and myself (five
minutes); cleaned more knives; washed up half
the things in the pantry; carried out slops 200
yards ; cleaned more knives ; pumped water for half-an-
hour, and carried water for garden (one hour’s work);
fell down from exhaustion (not beer); fed and harnessed
horses ; had tea (15 minutes); dressed for billiard room ;
there until 10 o’clock ; staggered to bed (not beer) ; white’
slave.
• » * *
For variations of climate and rainfall it
would be almost impossible to beat Western
Queensland. Half the Flinders district is well-
grassed and recovering from floods; the other
half is as bare as a table and perishing from thirst.
The other day, at Cloncnrry (North-west Flinders),'
the races were postponed on account of the heavy
rains, a proposal to hold shark-races and an eel-
Bteeplechase on the racecourse being reluctantly
negatived, Almost at the same time Hughenden
(East Flinders) races were postponed on account
of drought. The two places are about 230 miles
apart.
“ Ses.” : Among the attractions in Sydney
Botanical Gardens just now are the hundreds of
flying foxes that hang through the day in the
tops of the pine trees. This pest is increasing to
an amazing extent in various parts of the State.
On the Richmond River, colonies, wildly alleged
to be a million strong, are common, and occa-
sionally the settlers combine to disperse them.
In Grafton there is a “Society for the Destruc-
tion of Flying Foxes.” A good plan would be, in
place of the usual military encampments, to send
the kharki fraternity out in detachments to dis-
pei’se the fox nuisance. The experience of shoot-
ing at live targets at guessable distances would be
of more service in war-time than the mechanical
practice of firing at fixed objects, and, owing to
the extra-inspiriting nature of the proceedings,
Jawbone Neild wouldbe all themore likely tomake
a poem about them. If all the military forces of
New South Wales got round one colony of flying
foxes, and loaded up with duckshot, and fired
simultaneously, it is almost certain that some-
thing would be considerably grazed.
* * • •
“ Matchbox ” : I have been told that it is
a botanical axiom that only plants with long tap-
roats exist in dry country. Yet here (N.-W.
Wimmera) the only species of tree on the plains is
the dwarf bull-oak, a measly caricature of a tree
like a battered octopus, twisted and warped in its
struggle for a crust. Now, the roots of this un-
gainly fraud run along the surface, and the tap
root isn’t worth mentioning. Why is this ?
• * * *
“John H.” : Stayed recently at a Mt.
Garnet (N.Q.) hotel, and during one day ob-
served that a Cingalese cooked dinner, a Chow
brought vegetables, a Jap. took away washing, a
Hindoo hawker plied his trade at the back door.
Also that sundry American darkies breasted the
bar, that a Syrian draper lived opposite, and that
Afghans drove camels past night and morning.
What price White Australia up there?
“Yarrum”: At the present
time, so far as I can see, there is
very little to shoot in the way of
game in this country. There was a
time when a man could go out and
get a string of wild ducks or pigeons
in a short time ; but that is a thing
of the past. The trouble is that there
are now more guns than birds, and
the latter never get a show. In one
small N.S.W. township I know of,
at least, 50 guns, and the owners don’t
get five shillings’ worth of birds in a
year, although they burn no end of
powder and waste whips of energy.
A pitiable sight it is to see a dozen
or so able bodied men spending half
a day in a vain endeavor to bring
down one casual sparrow, or some-
thing equally obscure. I’ve seen a
bird pursued for miles, many a time.
Certainly birds are protected ; but
that doesn’t stop mean men from
destroying them in a sneaking way.
I’ve seen a sportsman, at ten yards,
riddle a decrepit duck sitting on her
few eggs by a lagoon. That was, of
course, in the “ close season.” He
(the sportsman) was not taking any
risks; and didn’t give his bird a
chance to rise, even if it could. The
public, nowadays, have too many
things to attend to, without bothering
about birds ; so the protection is a
farce. Best way to protect game
would be to put a tax on all guns—
pea-rifles, carried by kids, should be
taxed £lO a month. That would stop
our birds from being exterminated,
and would be a charity to the
shooters, who are, at present, only
wasting time and money to no purpose. If they
will not pay the tax, let them sell their weapons,
and get intoxicated. Sportsmen !—ye gods !
• » * •
“ A.8.T.” writes (not very convincingly)
on ghosts, spooks, djinns, afrites, goblins and
spiritual manifestations as seen by the lower
animals :
Re “ Polstan ” (B. 28/3/’O3) on haunted spots which
animals will not approach. I think science could, it it
would, dispel superstitions attaching thereto. Chemi-
cally considered, these spots may be, on a smaller scale,
akin to the carbonic acid valleys of Japan, to phos-
phorescent displays of will-o’-the-wisp pattern, or to other
gaseous exhalations. Physically viewed electrical phe-
nomena of the St. Elmo fire-brand may take a hand.
Assuming that many animals have more acute senses
than man ; they are, no doubt, conscious of luminosities,
scents, weird echoes, etc., which are beyond man’s ken.
Further, recognising the liability of the so-called
dumb animals to panic, superstition may vanish.
Was walking alongside of range in S. Aust., battling
with millions of pugnacious scrub flies. Came to a deep
watercourse, and, as I descended into it, the flies
lifted from me as though I was walking into deep water,
hovered above me, a buzzing mat of insects, and em-
braced me again joyfully as I ascended the opposite bank.
Tried several other points of watercourse, but the flies
did not lift. Went back again and explored. Could find
no obnoxious plant, but the bedrock had a darker, greasier
look than elsewhere ; that was all. Was riding out from
Grenfell (N.S.W.) one night, and had to cross a reputedly
haunted bridge in a dip overhung by box-trees. Arriving-
within six yards my horse propped. Broke a quince rod
over him with no success beyond a copious lather. Got
off and led him. Discovered in the middle of bridge a
faint phosphorescence; wiped my foot over it • it
vanished, and the horse settled down.
• ♦ » *
The Westralian goldfields native hasn’t
stood the new life long. On all the eastern and
southern fields the inspector can now find less
than 500, and not one of them, he reckons, is 50
years old.
THE BENEFITS RECEIVED.
MAORI CONVERT: “ Before I join te Tarawation
Army I’te pad feller; I play te pirriards, te
ping-pong, te two-up, now I newa (never).
Pefore I join te Tarawation Army I trink te
waipero, I patu (beat) te missus, now I go
home te wliare ewery night. I ket te prurry
fine football shirt; Ite pig feller. Te korero
(talk) ewery Ratapu (Sunday). Tarawation
or ri .”
“ A.8.T.” : During the drought months in
northern S.A., with no grass, no crops, nothing
but wind and dust, and wind and dust always, the
monotony was dense to distraction. Cockies sat
on top rails watching for a rift in the maddening
sameness. One day I saw the village school-
teacher rush out, hair in wind, duster in one
hand, chalk in other, and all the school on his
heels, to view the first camel pass that way. An
imaginative little girl had given the alarm. It
proved to be a dirty grey horse, pack on back,
led by a very weary man. The pack was the
hump, the weary man the houshta, and the droop-
ing neck and hanging lip of horse completed the
illusion. A week later the village turned out as
one man and woman and scoured the paddocks
for two emus, the first seen there for 20 years,
going south for water. The two emus were even-
tually located, in the persons of two starving
pigs. A dust-storm, that turned sunshine to
darkness, was hailed with something akin to joy,
an 1 formed the subject of conversation for a
w ek. And it is solemn fact that I heard several
remark, in an injured tone, that “sore eyes were
late this year,” and that they thought we were
not going to have them at all. Finally, a bit of
scrub beyond the hills caught fire somehow, and
tinged the mocking clouds with a ruddy glow.
The oldest resident said it was a Boxey Alice.
The telegraph operator, who knew something of
electricity, demurred, whereupon the oldest resi-
dent threatened to get a “holt” on him and
cross-buttock him; a week after which it rained,
and the mental attitude approaches the normal.
* * * *
“ Sili Cate ” : Re strong men (8.,
28/3/’O3). About the strongest man ever seen in
the Southern Hemisphere was “Red Mick,” an
Irish Thibetan, with arms like sticks and a neck
like a drain-pipe. His memory will live long on
the Leichhardt and other parts. He could at any
time raise from the ground with both hands a 561 b.
bag of flour, and he could also carry most of a
barrel of beer in a few hours. He was a man of
the sub-masculine type, with enormous abdominal
capacity, and three men at once could stand on
one of his feet.
. lie ca P e vvee d was introduced
into Victoria by the late Baron Von Mueller It
came from Germany, and has nothing to do with
South Africa. It is a kind of marigold, an
annual, called cape weed because, if given room
it spreads itself out in the form of a cape. Very
juicy of leaf and stem it is relished by suburoan
dairy cows, and in the late winter and early spring
greatly increases the flow of milk. It is then at
the height of its beauty, and its golden flower-
heads are brimming over with pollen. Every
breeze scatters the yellow dust abroad, and the
present writer suffers agonies of hay fever It is
coming up now in its millions, harmless while in
its infancy, but all too soon it bloometh, and then
—anathema ; likewise atishoo. I believe it is the
cause of post-nasal growths, appendicitis and
sandy blight, and therefore should be extermi-
nated.
* * * ,
“B.”: May be not generally known that the
common black and white magpie is excellent
eating, many preferring it to the bronzewimr
pigeon, which it somovviiat resembles
There is a lie to the effect that, before the
telegraph line was opened to Coolgardie (W A )
it was the custom to send the wires on from
Southern Cross by the first coach, cart, or wa^eon
eastward bound. Towards the
mid of 1893 a most important
telegram was received at the
Cross for a leading mining
speculator then in Coolgar-
die, and it was sent along by
the first conveyance. The
teamster, according to cus-
tom, put the message in his
horses’ tucker-box. Eight
days later he arrived in Cool-
gardie, and to his dismay
found the telegram had van-
ished. Some person had given
one of his team a feed of chaff
out of the box that held the
precious paper, and apparently
the horse had eaten the message.
Ihe mining magnate bought the
horse and executed it; after which
he had it opened from head to tail,
but not a scrap of the lost message
could be found. Three months later an illiterate
individual was found trying to use the message
as a miner’s right on the strength of the Govern-
ment stamp, and when the magnate had finished
picking him, which was only after a considerable
'me, he promised never to do anything of the sort
a gain.
“ A.8.T.” on rabbits :
“ Bobrid ” (B. 21/3/’O3) says that had nature intended
the rabbit’s coat as a protection, she would have clothed
bunny in a dull-grey garment, the monotonous and
unvarying color of the Australian bush. What clap-trap
is this grey, &c., of the Australian bush. Bosh! There’s
as much blue gum in the Australian bush as anything
else. Anyhow Bob’s acceptation of “bush” is too ex-
pansive. An Englishman speaks fondly of the New
“ Forest,” where trees are the missing adjunct. An
Australian will have his “ bush” compounded of ’possum
and gum trees, though he knows it is only theorv.
Countless millions of “bunny” romp where the largest
bush is a scraggy tussock or a scurvy shrub. This is the
baekblox, or Sheol, or what you will, but it is not the
“ bush,” It ia. not so much to bush tints that
bunny loo] i for protection from man, dog,
hawk, crow, ttrtd the rest, as to soil tints. Thou-
sands of square miles upon which he multiplies reck-
lessly are not grey or any color in particular; rather a
nondescript or a faded Joseph’s coat pattern. Natural
selection will eventually—barring extensive free selection
—settle the unanimous color of the rabbit’s coat—the
color which will harmonise with the predominant, not the
“ unvarying,” hue of Australian ground-scape. Let
“Bobrid” go out without his dog. Get a rabbit away
from his burrow. Disturb him ; but do not give him
palpitation of the heart. Then watch. He will half
squat perhaps in several places. At last down he
goes, legs and belly along the ground, ears along
the back till the outlines of the rabbit merge
into the shape of a roley-poley pudding. Thus he hugs
the ground in what appears an ecstasy of con-
tent and confidence. Compare the discarded spots
with that finally chosen and the truth that bunny is
beginning to know the value of protective ground colors
will be apparent. Further, it would be well for “Bob”
to note that in this clime bunny can but rarely nibble
his dinner from the margin of his burrow, as per nursery
book. He is compelled to wander a bit, is likely to get into
a mess and must fall back again on devices, unless he con-
tinually shifts burrow. But this involves labor, possibly
infringement on rabbitarian rights. The rabbit whose
color assimilates with that of his surroundings and the
rabbit that doesn’t assimilate both go out looking for
food, but the rabbit that assimilates has a much better
chance to come back and rear an assimilated family. And
that is where the natural selection comes in.
* * • *
“ Hagram ” : Early one morning I saw a
couple of kangaroo dogs cutting across country
with a side of bacon between them. Twice they
let it down and changed ends. Next day an
extensive robbery of dried pig was reported at an
adjacent farm-house.
NO FURTHER RECREATION REQUIRED.
MIL. SLEMP: “ And is your wife going to exercise
the franchise?”
MR. TUGG: “Exercise the franchise, is it? She’s
enough exercise as it is, with her work and a
disagreement with me now and again.”
“ Yarrum ” : Not often that cats take to
water; but when they do they swim as well as
any dog. At Ballina (N.S.W.) I trained one to
follow the gun ; and he retrieved splendidly—
vyas, in fact, the admiration of all sportsmen.
Sometimes he would go fishing on his own, and
bring home mullet running into 21b., which he
had to dive for. One night we were out in a
boat, whiting fishing, when Barney got out for a
swim. He hadn’t been long there when a shark
got hold. The gleam of the poor fellow’s red eyes
across the water was terrible to behold ; and his
screams—well, I sometimes hear them in my
dreams.
JIM’S DESPAIR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“ Lately some good rains have fallen in the bn’cblox.”--
A ews item.
They stood beside a “Never ” pub.
Whatever had been told to Jim
It plainly had affected him.
He shook with sobs, his eyes were dim ;
lie glanced out at the dismal scrub,
Then wiped his eye,
And wished to die,
And cursed creation low and high.
It seemed that Jim, on pleasure bent,
Had started on a jamboree ;
A wild, soul-stirring sort of spree
(The common kind in Yarrowee);
Till all his money had been spent.
Now heard he wist—
Fully the gist
Of things all told him he had missed.
“A fortnight I’ve been dazed,” sobbed Jim,
“ As I have often been of old,
All through the grog that Casey sold ;
I’ve lost what I prize more than gold.
A thousand curses rest on him 1 ”
He groaned again,
As if in pain,
“ I’ve missed a d d good fall of rain ! ”
“RIVERINA.”
SMOKING AFTER TEA.
[FOR THE BULETIN.]
I feel a sort of pity
For the man thac doesn’t smoke ;
Though his conduct may be pretty
In the eyes of other folk.
And I wouldn’t swop the feeling,
And the luxury to me,
Of gazing at the ceiling
And smoking after tea.
Ay! the pipe’s a comrade jolly,
And a good one anywhere ;
It scoffs at melancholy,
And it never adds to care ;
And a time that’s worth the prizing
Is when sitting cosily,
And the curly wreaths are rising
Round your head just after tea.
When schemes of your creation
Let you down for “ something stiff,”
There’s a lot of consolation
In a contemplative whiff.
And when difficulties rife are,
And you’re worried constantly,
O ! the brightest spots in life are
When you’re smoking after tea.
VIC.
BEN SUN.


A Drink! A Tonic! A Medicine!
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Call for WOLFH’S Schnapps auil n«.>Kb sura that
you taka r>othiug: else.
Headache Dispelled.
Permanently and for Good.
“ I have found your Bile Beans are an excellent
remedy for a disordered liver,” says Mrs. S. A.
Masters, of 18 Jarrett-street, Leichardt, Sydney.
“ At times I have been so bad with indigestion
that I did not know what to eat. My appetite
was considerably impaired, and my sleep was dis-
turbed, and, in consequence, felt completely done-
up during the day, and suffered agony with SICK
AND NERVOUS HEADACHES Having
read a case wherein Bile Beans had cured a fellow-
sufferer I decided to give them a trial, and can
now say from my own experience that Bile Beans
are a perfect remedy for sick headache, loss of
appetite, sleeplessness, and those innumerable
symptoms of a sick liver.” Bile Beans have now
a world wide reputation for curing biliousness,
headache, indigestion, constipation, piles, debility,
female weaknesses, nervousness, bad bloo *,
pimples and all skin eruptions, bad breath,
anaemia, loss of appetite, sleeplessness, lumbago,
rheumatism, and in fact all ailments that owe
their origin to defective bile flow, assimilation
and digestion. Bile Beans are obtainable from
all medicine vendors, price Is. ltd. or 2s. 9d.
large box, (contains three times the quantity of
the Is. size.)*
The Latest
riarvel.
A Large number of SOLID SILVER
BRUSHES, at 12/6 each.
Solid Silver Brush, full size, hand-drawn bristles, 12/6.
Fxtra lonjf bristles, 15/6.
They are Solid Silver, English Hall-marked. _____
They are Large 'finishes. They have Hand-drawn Bristles. They are in Art Designs.
They will iast a lifetime. New Bristles may he fitted to them.
They are simply astounding value. Nothing in Australia has ever come near them in price.
OUR PRICES DO NOT EXCEED LONDON FIGURES.
London Prices
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
Fairfax & Roberts,
Ti e Oldest JewelUry House in Sydney,
23 HUNTER STREET.
“Matchbox” : Writer of par (B. 4/4/’O3)
concerning distribution of sand over Wycheproof
farms, has no idea of the size of the farms, nor the
smallness of the average cockie. A belated cockie
heaving fertilising sand over a desert with a No.
4 shovel! Why don’t men see before they write ?
The distribution required has been done by the
wind. A little more wind will distribute the
cockies themselves in a way that will galvanise
the “great natural industry.”
• * * *
“ Magpie ” : Just returned from a holiday
tramp in Iliaw'arra (N.S.W.) district, and a few
facts arrested my attention what time it was not
occupied by the ferny wildernesses on the right
hand and the sea on the left, for the road at places
is but a ledge on the cliffs. The mining districts
seem, to a passer-by, to be much addicted to
music, for the number of misguided people strug-
gling with stringed and brass instruments was re-
markable. Also the proportion of dentists whose
notices hung on every hotel. Why do miners
seem to require the services of tooth-pullers to
such an extent? Rounding a cliff almost washed
by the waves, on one occasion, I walked into what
appeared a flight of gnats, but the haunting
fragrance of wild honey proclaimed it a swarm of
bees which had settled little more than a yard
above the water. Struck an orchard, which
boasted a prize quince measuring fully lGin. in
widest circumference and sin. diameter. Also
was surprised on entering a tobacconist’s to
ask for the weed, to find a lady barber shaving a
male customer.
* • * *
The Maffra Spectator, a Gippsland
print, gets home on the corns of a local public
man :
At the last meeting of the Morwell Shire Council it was
proposed that an honorarium be presented to the secre-
tary for his valuable services. A well-meaning member
rose, and startled his hearers by remarking: “Gentle-
men, our secretary don’t want nothing of the sort. If we
give him a honorarium, he wouldn’t have time to play it.
A sum of money would be of much more service.”
Which goes to show that one of Noah’s jokes was
a long time in reaching prehistoric Maffra
• * • •
“Muru”: Re horse bucking out of its
hoofs. Your two correspondents have apparently
not heard of foot-rot. Horses around here don’t
buck—they just walk out of their hoofs. Know
of one old prad who, taken from a swamp to the
hard, stony highland, shed his hoofs next day.
The sagacious animal, after deep thought, and
driven thereto by the painfulness of his under-
standings on the flinty surface of his new quarters,
carefully readjusted the discarded hoofs and
grazed subsequently without pain or inconveni-
ence. In extremely hot weather it has been his
custom to remove the hoofs, resuming them in the
cool of the evening.
EXTRAORDINARY PERSPICACITY.
BILLY (just back from the city): “My word,
them fortune-tellers knows a bit, all right.
Soon as I come in she told me I wuz just
from the country."
“ Quib ” : Re the prevalent notion that
white ants never attack living plants :
A few years ago Normanton (Q.), town council planted
a row of trees down the middle of the main street and
white ants ate every one, sooner or later—mostly' sooner.
Also a friend of mine at Croydon planted a plot of grape
vines at great expense, but the ants ate the lot. The
worst place for them is the Gulf country', and particularly'
on ironstone ridges. I was first customer at Normanton
customs-house on a Tuesday morning following Easter.
The clerk went to take one ledger from atop another, and
wondered why it stuck so fast, until he discovered that
white ants had eaten through the counter and the bot-
tom ledger as far as upper cover of the top one—all since
the previous Thursday. I was running a whisky-mill at
the time, and had occasion to pile up about 10 cases in
the bar. Going to disturb them about a week later I
found the ants had gone through the lot, only' stopping
short of daylight. They can eat a big wooden house
down (or up) in less time than two years. The hotel in
question is the third building on the same site inside 14
years—the others were eaten. Phillips, C.E., who laid out
Normanton nearly 40 years ago, knew what termites
could do, and worked hard at perfecting his steel sleepers,
on which he afterwards built the Normanton-Croydon
railway. I hear on indifferent authority that the ants
are into them.
‘ Dave R.” : Coaching once
from Mitta Mitta to Tallangatta,
we observed two hawks (common
kites) in open country very busy
with something on the ground. As
the coach drew close we saw it was
a snake. One bird kept in front as
the snake crawled, the other walk-
ing round and jumping across, and,
when opportunity offered, giving
the snake a nip close to the head,
shaking it and throwing it up a
couple of feet. This occurred
several times ; then the birds took
fright at the coach and left. Went
over and finished off the snake with
a whip. It did not seem to have
suffered much, but no doubt the
kites would have killed it but for
our appearance. It was a 2ft. black
snake.
• • • «
“ Wiljar” : Lately discovered
the champion lazy man—a Mallee
(bachelor) cockie. Apart from the
“ improvements a hut, a frog-
pond, 40 chains of struck-by-light-
ning-fence, and 50 acres “ cleared ”
(i.e., six trees burned down to the
acre; rest left standing)—he has
done practically nothing since he
settled on his land, eight years
ago. Two weeks’ cropping and
harvesting out of the 52 left him
50 in which to eat, drink, sleep,
and visit, which last he generally
did for the square meal he wouldn’t
earn. His neighbor, forced to go
contracting when crop was in,
rounded on the missus blastiferously
when he returned for “ encouraging
bummers to live on him while
aw'ay.” “Didn’t!” retorted the
missus. “Yer did,” persisted the
boss; “look how fat Smith’s
got! ”
“ Paddy Melon ” : At Broken Hill saw a
dog said to be suffering from “lead fits.” Said
dog would lie down, yelp piteously, and contort
its body as if suffering intense agony. It then got
up and went to a public-house. It ran, barking
wildly, round the room, frightening the barmaids,
bumping its head against every possible obstacle,
and then endeavored to escape by getting into a
corner and making frantic efforts to scale the wall.
In a supreme effort to reach the ceiling it fell
through the doorway, and then struggled along
the footpath to the rear of the hotel. Here it lay
down, frothed at the mouth like an enraged boar,
aud then placidly “ put its marble in the box.”
• * * •
“ Tickling ” fr ont. as a means of catching
thein (illustra-
ted by a re-
cent “ Hop ”
cartoon) is
pro bably
very little
known in
Australia,
though
common
enough in
English
poaching
roles and practised in
Tasmania where the
British trout has been
acclimatised. “Tickling”
snakes as a means of catch-
ing them is said to be a
trick which cats in Austra-
lia have learned. A resi-
dent near Botany (Sydney),
in one of the most snake-
infested areas of Australia,
says (and he is a veracious
man whose word can be taken
about a fishing expedition)
that his cat is a champion
snake-killer, and in the summer
time disdains mice and such
vermin, stalking the scrub for
ophulae. One afternoon he had a
chance of closely watching her
method. Pussy had discovered a
tiger snake, and was trotting a few
inches behind his tail as he re-
treated through the sandy waste.
Once or twice he turned and
threatened her, when the cat
would draw back. Then, at
last, the cat stretched out a
paw and lightly stroked the
snake on his tail. The snake
turned but not so threaten-
ingly as before. Puss re-
peated her tactics, again and
again stroking the snake, each
time venturing a little higher up and each time,
seemingly, placating him more. Finally the claw
was used with the talons out, and with a flash the
cat was on top of the snake and furiously biting
at its back. Then it jumped back. The rest of
the combat consisted of sudden jumps, scrunches,
and retreats by the cat. Last act of all was a well
filled cat with a snake inside it. A matter-of-fact
and most reliable Scotchman tells this yarn.
♦ * * *
“T.R.N.” : Some items of bush dentistry.
One man I know of vigorously hacked his gum
with a pocket-knife, and then shifted the tooth
with a length of copper-wire. Again, a woman
removed an upper molar by making it fast with
string to a beam overhead (she being mounted on
the table) and then jumping off. Passing a neigh-
bor’s place, t’other evening, I found him operating
on the jaw of his milkman —with a bullet-mould !
But the milkman still has his tooth, and with it
an ache beyond his wildest dreams. Another
neighbor is in active practice. Knowledge of
dentistry—none ; instruments—an ancient pair of
forceps, and muscle ad lib.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,,
safest, best restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large*
bottles Is. everywhere.
TENOR EDWARD LLOYD.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will betaken of
communications insuficiently stamped. Name and
address must an near on MS. No liability is under-
taken in any case re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by post or handed in ; and in
no case will MS. be returned unless stamps (oj any
State) accompany.
T. : Your letter beginning “to the Editor of
the Editorship Bulletin—Highly Respected Gentleman ”
made us glow all over like a man who has been
made a J.P. ; but can’t do anything in your case.
Complain to the Minister of Justice either directly or
through the local M.P. A gentleman with your 100-
horse-power courtesy ought to be very good friends with
the local M.P.. ..M.C. ; “ Cheer Up ” nearly'good enough
—only nearly P.Q.R. : Final judgment proved
fatal to “Sins of the Fathers.” Fid.: “ Jack-pot’•
well enough written, but situation was the subject of
the first joke on earth—the one that drove Noah to drink.
....Simon: Not enough in it.... True Blue: Too mag-
niloquent and pretentious Sara M. : The form is alj
right, but the spirit is lacking. . ..Peewit: You say no-
thing wi th great skill.. ..L. A. G.; Almost thou persuadest
us Jorkins : No use for second-hand Dooleyisms
Haroun : Well thought-out, but too didactic. ..Will I. :
Lie no use to us, simply as a lie W.S. : “Tim’s
Mother” too patchy and jerky' Fiji : Might have been
a good thing with better handling J.T.D. : Thanks;
hardly suits us....Milesian : Explanation all right,
but we don’t care for any of the verses... .Zamiel:
Promises well at first, but peters out badly towards
end Quartpot: Empty ! Aster: Do object
to us in better verse if you must object Potai
(Tumut): It’s smart men like you who keep the
army of spielers and magsmen going. The bookie laid
£l2 to £8 against one dog, say Smoker, and £lO to £8
against the other, say Snider. So he has £l6 in his bag.
If Smoker wins he has to pay out £2o—the £8 he col-
lected from Smoker’s owner, and the £l2 he bet. Loss, £4.
If Snider wins he pays out £lB ; loss of £2 E.H.C.:
Saving it up for a Page of Bad Literature some day....
8.8. J.: “Revolt” unsuitable Quidam : “Dry-Blowing”
weak as a yarn, and not sufficient descriptive quality' to
make a good sketch....Ku Klux: Will make par. of
“ Madame Melba Hotel.” P.S.O. : Sketch con-
sisting chiefly of bad language unthankfully declined.
Dryad: Suppose it’s intended to have some
meaning, but couldn’t straighten it out Salsette :
Very well written, but the theme is worn to shreds.
....A.A.F. : Merely an explosion of epithets....
Caro :It was probably an oversight; there are such mul-
titudes of them Dakina (or something like that):
Can’t deal with such ignominious scribble... .H.M. : The
man who supplied that information has spent a great
deal more time, since the Kingston tariff first came into
force, in Coolgardie than you have, and probably knows
the local sentiment much better than you d 0....
E. M. Luxton : Haven’t read your tale yet, but have paid
the Bd. for deficient postage... .Fideiis : Your violent
complaint doesn’t inspire confidence in your discre-
tion E.E.B. : Your ship’s rum is too diluted....
Spinifex : Why don’t you put your name and
address on copy'.....Coota : The lady didn’t wear bare
feet.... Helen I. : Railway ticket joke old as the first
railway. Other not much g00d... .Sid F. :“To a Child”
unsuitable... ,J. Pool :It is quite true that out of the
£207,000,000 or so which this country borrowed in
London up to the date mentioned only about
£25,000,000 came out here, the other £182,000,000
being used to pay interest in London. But the fact that
we used the money to pay interest with makes no differ-
ence in the fact that we borrowed it and that we owe it..
Egalal : Well-worded in the big-mouthed Oriental style,
but has no special claim upon print. .Nurse A : “ Death ”
is the stronger of the two, but is hardly up to the mark
....Judy: One is too crudely' melodramatic, and the
other, though fairly satirical, lacks finish....M. : Suggest
you bring the matter before the Col. Secretary’s Dept,
and the subscribers... .Patrick D. : “Sundowner” hack-
neyed : same subject has been teared over a hundred
times. “Kismet” better, but still net up The
Listener : No originality, and we haven’t space to repeat
the familiar thoughts of Omar... .D.M.R. : Shows promise
. ...E.V.M. : Very near to acceptance mark, but a
thought so often treated needs extra good work
Gilbrooney : “Skinning” is unpleasant without being
grim.. ..E.J.: Not enough in “ Steerage”.... A. A.T. :
But how can the Owe’S, embark on another unprofitable
railway undertaking just now?... .Alpha: You say
nothing we haven’t said before... .The Hop: Too brutally
■cynical for print, though perhaps true enough... .E.B.H. :
“Life’s Compensation” hasn’t enough backbone....
A.B.C. : Too long-drawn out... .Willie : A stale idea....
J.P. : “Infinite Mercy” declined as too shocking
Sartor: Will use “ Back blocks ”as aboriginal par.. ..E.J. :
“Lock-up Incident” no good as a yarn A.D.P. :
“Model Man” a good sketch, but unfortunately was
anticipated in “ Poverty Point Mick: “Exits” melo-
dramatic rot.. . .Robert Audley : “ Until Day Break” is a
great straining after pathos... .Elpass (U.S.A.): Thanks;
but it’s too incoherent and ramblesome... .The Wobbler :
Wobbled into the basket... .E.E.A. : Has all been said
before, and better said; and was hardly worth saying,
anyhow Mary V.: Too thin and squeaky J.M.
(W.A.): Badly belated—the iron is quite cold n0w....T.
Mac.: Returned accordingly.... Edd. : First few lines
deserve a place anyhow :
llow frail she was ! and yet to be so gay ?
How glad was I to fold her in my arms,
And then to place her where the flowers play,
And sit and watch her as she sweetly charm*
The butterfly,
And pray that I
Mi' bt take her riding with me once again.
But no, alack !
She strained her back ;
And now, ah me ! ne’er more again can be, &c.
... Alone: “Ascension” might pass if we could only
find out what it was that ascended, and where it ascended
t0....W.J.P. : Decline to have anything to do with the
objectionable subject.... First Attempt: Words fail to
describe the awfulness of your “ poem.” J.G.F. : But
there is a transit of Jupiter, though it isn’t visible from
the earth. Only a Jupiter (we mean stupider) person than
the average could fail to see that E.M.P. : You’d better
go and have a closer look at the Cold Country aristocracy.
....Quixote: No hope.... A.E.L. : Will print “ Mystery.”
.... The Raven : Old Bulletin jokes mostly. ...A.L.N. :
Not enough in either of them... .Gipsy : If you send
them along, we will give a candid opinion C. Gobi:
Not ill-written, but interest not lively enough Dido :
Improbability too violent... .Jimmie Mac: Too much
straining after effect... .Constant Reader: One set of
figures referred to public debt only. The other included
private foreign liabilities—rents, interests and divi-
dends payable to absentees Hugo: If the
question is worth arguing seriously (which is doubtful)
you want to put your facts in much better order
His Nibs : Verses are so many different kinds of awful
that it is hard to say which kind of awful is most
conspicuous Prince: (\ reasonably' promising
par. in collection. Of coin_j, we accept (and pay for)
short stories if they' are good enough... .Critic: To
try to sell oil-paintings (especially by an artist
who wants the proceeds to take more lessons) is
a very hopeless enterprise M.O.D. : Canadian
agent is J. S. Larke, 56 Pitt-street, Sydney... .Odds:
The Bulletin welcomes smart political comment from
any’ source, but has no use for mere tedious repetitions of
its own arguments J. 1.11. : Did Solomon talk Latin ?
Was there a King of Italy in 1830 with a palace at Genoa?
.... M.S. : The Zaza kiss has already had one “ poem ” ;
one kiss two poems would be bigamy.... G.H.P. : A good
idea, but verse is too halting.... J.D. : Verse of that sort
must be faultless in form, and yours isn’t Res:
Not in our line Donnybrook Fair: Awful
Abo. : Letters arriving insufficiently' stamped receive our
earnest inattention. . .Genung : “Brothers” indicates
need for an iron or strychnine tonic... .Nemo : School-
boy’s essay on Ned VI. on dead level of monotony with
all other school kids’ essays on everything.... Poor Soli-
citor: This paper isn’t the morgue... .C.D.J. : “Bikes”
heavy'as a sand-filled tyre... .G.E.B. : “Singer’s Parent-
age” worth par space 0n1y....Nem0.: “Tested” found
wanting; mere words H. Harcourt : “Fish” a very
mild, tame yarn... .W.O. : The gentleman who embezzled
the verses has already been dealt with. Incidentally,
there was lOd. to pay for deficient postage through your
letter being closed at the ends... .H.M.T. : (1) As to the
why of the Dill-Moran row, all the world knows is that
Dill has always been built that way. Just now there is a
little extra row because twoleadingmembersof thepresent
N.S.VV. Ministry are Catholics, because Cardinal Moran is
growing foolish and garrulous in his old age, and because
there will soon be an election. The N.S.W. importers’
party frequently raises the sectarian spectre at election
times, and alleges that any attempt to establish local
industries is a Papal conspiracy (2) The Samoan trouble
seems past all disentanglement.... Dick : You have some
good ideas, but metrical expression is faulty... .A.C.E. :
Thought trite, expression poor— X. 0.: Well, truth to tell,
we’re inclined to favor anything that is against borrowing.
.... D. S. O’G. • What you say is directly contradicted by a
pressman in the district ; and we are not disposed to
doubt his statements without disinterested inquiry....
Shaker : That weak point about Reid’s silly dog metaphor
has been pointed out a dozen times... .B. Terrell: “A”
wins the bet.... Mary L. : “Trough” clever in a way',
but rather affected, and has an unwholesome flavor.. ..
W.F.E. : Good points, but not enough of them... .E.L. :
“ Rablitz,” a high-pitched scream of emotion. Who was
Rablitz—also Lucy—also Ned ? What had Ned done ?
What was everything—also where —likewise why and
when... .Ink-Blot: Don’t admire your taste in mothers.
....The Lad: Inferior scrap... Ne’er-do-weel: Will print
shortly.. ..Harri: “Sankey”good... .Muru : Verses about
Morgan long and weak.... A.C. : “Retrospect” and
“Autumn” both rather small and girly Rhaupo :
“ Bushland” only respectable verse, and the materials are
as old as the devil’s boots.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Roebuck : Not “ ryebuck.”.... William G.: Black sheep
idea not in our line.. .Hockkirch : Robert Reid as Brutus
would be a failure.... Fab : Two may do as suggestions. .
C.H.S.: You need to learn a lot yet... .W.M.P. : Drawing
shows distinct promise ; idea too often treated before.. ..
F.M.: Microbe drawings show a merely mechanical
imagination. .Unsuitable : Cokey, 11.J.R., A.W., P.H.M.’
Malle, Od Clod, C.E.T., T.L.8., W.8.E,, J.C.E Post-
script : Suggestion no good.


Sports and Pastimes of the Ancients, Bowls—Respectfully Dedicated to our Visiting- Bowlers.
Speed) fmm)ts s)e catting dohin of
state M Sirputs 1 Salams-
(krarfot
Ifaj fm to nyucjke a reduced fudge, ■;;•;
ttflKierPrufket Ijns-
sell has&Mmd.
flmt'lfe mootv b res-
jd&|jfe|t>r(|e dmigjfT
Sfe fjootv- Ij^S;
[fuift right;
fitted htf:" I
IM "R _L ill
-to \3
lob" ™ ; %ev
j itwrffcr tails for no ]
emtijefjt itiktferem, I f?re-j
smeljd plural j
Course will loe J
f°l
She City of
\m km (touted at ft ft&tniutt !
CARTOONLETS.


]f tjo |ipHTnj*)W 2 Vic
Ocwrt *l%? 2 Should l]A>fe
Veen co^/id
WeVe sv/ortj off Wbi'K "fill
jft
a/e yoa "? c
a a], . _'n/ o mVc i Üb'inefMirn^*'
S yoJ «
SU^|3>t' OM 5
" Why whrt l —, '
"J/«$ *KM on •
I interV^L-
| 'itjmK o-f — Why..
irjen donKgo 1o ctywrch-
fe
huirfiliXfro*]
IrVirte (lb :-— Will
you WK —-ok
11 ? *
iW'p.l rl
\
g r '»c«^
'^ :, A«€‘' 'V Me? ip
- /^e<v\^T ' w ih s*J*°£p j"~ O~H
+Y, 't; fCS
C»»w or«w***f ( fe P 1 *! 5 w*4_
, 4- S ,~H
S e y i j $ »-1 Ac y^b°-\
°o Ce Avf»fo^ ’j e^g,tr
A PrL aI &M? ce »>'’*'' /
VICTORIAN AND OTHERWISE.


Key,
.£3los.
Keyless,
A
iiiSl!
A. SAUNDERS.
BUSHMEN AND MINERS.
ROTHERHAM SPECIAL MADE ENGLISH
LEVELS, Full Cap, Hand Finished, Extra
Jewelled W orks, Perfect Timekeeper, with Pure
Silver Cases, Dust and Water Tight, £3 10s.
Extra Clualitv, with Chronometer Balance,
£4 10s, £5, £5 10s, £6, £7, £8;
Solid Gold, £lO, £l5, £2O.
A written certificate for 3,4, and 5 years.
Try one ; you will not regret it.
A. SAUNDERS.
Strong, Reliable WATERBURY WATCHES.
Long Wind, 8s 6d ;
New Short Wind, 10s ;
New Model, (x., 13s 6d ;
Extra duality, f-plate, 18s 6d and £l.
Silver. 35s ;
Gold, £2 15s.
The reputation of these Watches is a sufficient
guarantee of the reliability.
Free-
trade
Prices.
No
Advance
A. SAUNDERS.
Unrivalled non-magnet LEVER.
Perfecl Timekeeper, Screw Cases,
dust and water tight, 20s.
Solid Silver, 35s ; Double Case, £2.
A written Guarantee given with
each Watch.
20s.
20s.
¥
“FLY-BACK CHRONOMETERS.”
Fly-back only. In Solid Nickel or Black, 30s ;
Extra Qn lity, £2, £'2 10s ; f plit Seconds, £3 ]os.
Pure Solid Silver, as above, £5, £6, £7, £B, and £lO •
Solid Gold, £l5, £2O, £25, and £3O.
A written certificate for 2,3, 4,5, and 6 years
TRY ONE.
Black or
Nickel,
30s.
Silver,
$5.
WALTHAM LEVERS.
We are Direct Buyers.
Pure Solid Silver Hunting Cases, Ex!
Quality Movements,
L 2 10s, £3, 413 10s, £4, and £5 *
Gold Patent Cases, Walthams £4 4« e s
Solid Gold, £7 10s, £lO, £l2ios
£l5, £2O, and £25. ’
3,4, 5, and 6 Years’ Guarantee.
Solid
Silver,
«£2 10s.
Gold
Cased,
«£4 4s,
ou»iu umil On.-vi.xN or Double), £c 10s, £3.
£3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5. loct. Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6
£6 108, £7, £B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s’
Send for Price Illustrated Book.
A. SAUNDERS.
Diamond BRACELET, loot. Gold, three Pure Double Cut
Diamonds, with Safety Chain, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Bamboo Gold BRACELET, all the style, price according
to width, 255, 30s, £2, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s ;
15ct. Gold, £3, £l. £5, £6.
A. SUNDERS.
Gold Sword and Pearl Spray BROOCH, with Diamond
Heart, 2os ; loot. Gold, £2 os.
Gold Bar Amethyst BROOCH, 12s 6d.
Engyish Hall Marked,
A. SAUNDERS.
New Style 2-Bar Gold BROOCH,
Diamond and two Red Stones, 20s.
CPBii iiiiii
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. 2-Bar Pure Diamond, Double Cut,
£2 ; with Ruby, 85s.
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Latest Style, loot. Gold Pearl Set Buckle 2-Bar
BROOCH, 32s 6d. English Hall Marked.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Style, Gold BROOCH, Hall-marked,
Diamond and 2 Red Stones, 22s 6d.
Gold BROOCH, 2-Bar Diamond, with Pour Red
or Blue Stones, 20s.
,r v
Ladies' Curb Gold
Chain, Snap Padlock,
255, 30s, 85s, £2 ss,
£3; 15ct., £2 10s, £3,
£4, £4 10s, £5, £6,
£7 10s, £B, £9, £lO.
10s extra for Key
Padlock.
All with Safety Chain.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Gold Porget-Me-Not BROOCH
English Hall-marked, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Our 2 Bird Gold BROOCH, 10s. Very neat.
JLJ6
mwm
A. SAUNDERS (Registered).
Good-wish Gold BROOCH, 12s 6d ;
15ct. Gold, 255.
No. 1.
Ladies’ Solid Gold Long MUFE CHAINS,
Hand Made, Extra Strong, £3, £3 10s, £4;
15ct. Gold, £4 10s, £5, £6, £7 10s.
Price According to Strength.
A. SAC in I»ERS.
New Peace Offering Oold Bird and Pearl Set
Leaf, 25s ;
15ct. Gold, 32s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Motto Registered Gold “ Dinna, Forget ”
BROOCH and Amethysts, 9ct. Gold, 17s (id :
loct. Gold, 30s ; 18ct. Gold, 355.
'csoc^^oc
No. 2.
Ladies’ Solid Gold Long MUFF CHAINS
Hand Made. Extra Strong, £3, £3 10s £4 -
15ct. Gold £4 10s, £5, £6, £7 10s. ’ ’
Price According to Strength.
Veiy Pretty Gold BRACELET Diamond, Red, oi Blue
Stones, £2 10s; loot. Gold, £4, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Newest Solid Gold Name BROOCH, 7s 6d •
■with Raised Flowers each side (Any Name)’
15ct. Gold, 15s. Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
loot. Gold Ivy and Knob BROOCH, 25s ;
9et, Gold, smaller, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold 2-Heart Amethyst and Dove Knot
BROOCH, 20s.
. p
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold 2-Bar Diamond Double Cut
BROOCH, ±2.
msBsBssgsssmssssssss&
No. 3.
Ladies’ Solid Gold Long MUFF CHAINS
Hand Made, Extra Strong, £3, £3 10s £4
15ct. Gold, £4 10s, £5, £6, £7 10s.
Brice According to Strength.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Peace Offering- Twin Dove BROOCH
with Enameßed Leaf, 17s 6d ; ’
loct. Gold, 255.
Z 7
A. SAUNDERS.
loot. 3-Bar Gold BROOCH. Pure Diamond,
Double Cut, £3 ss. Very strong.
Csssssks
. U;
r~
...
A. SAUNDERS.
2-Bar English Hall-Marked Gold BROOCH,
Diamond-cut Amethyst, 20s ;
loct. Gold, £2’.
A. bAu
Solid Gold, Hall-Marked, Forget-me-Not
BROOCH, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Very Neat 15ct. Gold, Peail, and Turquoise
BROOCH, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
High Grade Ladies’ Solid Silver LEVERS
Hull Jewelled, f-plnte,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, and £4 10s.
in Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6 10s, £7 10s, £8 10s, 10 <ti:i
£l2 10s, £l5, and £2O.
Guaranteed 3,4, 5, and 6 years.
A. SAUNDERS.
laet. Solid Gold Pure
Pearl STAR, £3.
Other styles, £4, £5,
£6, £9, £lO.
A. SAUNDERS.
Any Name;
Secret Name Gold
LOCKET. £1 •
Pearl and Red
Stone Set,
15ct. Gold, 30p.
A. SAUNDERS.
Beautifully Chased, 9ct. Gold,
large size LINKS, 22s 6d.
Plum, 21s, or with Initials,
nicely Chased, 22s 6d.
15ct. Gold, £2; Silver, 4s Gd.
A. SAUNDERS,
(Registered).
Gold LINKS, 20s
loct. Gold, 32s 6d
Silver and Gold, 10s;
all Silver,,ss.
MIZPAH
CHARM,
CALL AND SEE OUR
JEWELLERY EXHI BITION.
A SPLENDID DISPLAY.
OR SEND FOR OUR
1902 COMPLETE ILLUSTRATED BOOK,
POST FREE ANYWHERE.
Photo Locket |
A. SAUNDERS.
New Photo. Gold
LOCKET and CHAIN.
255, 30s, £2 ;
screw top, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
OUR PEACE RING.
18ct. Solid Gold,
Diamond and 2 Rubies
or Sapphires, £2.
Extra Heavy, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Sold Gold Opal Band,
17s 6d ;
3 Opals, 22s 6d ;
15ct. Gold, 30s ;
3 Opals, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
fcfejr ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Silver Hunting Keyless, 2Es, 30s, *2,
£2 10s, £3.
Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3, £i, £5 ;
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
ALL GUARANTEED.
A-. SAUNDERS.
Set. Solid Gold Opal
LINKS, 30s ;
1 5ct. Gold, £2los. Extra strong.
. A. SAUNDERS.
Gold TANKS, very pretty, 12s:6d.
Uargfe size, 15s and 20s.
Silver, 3s 6d and 4s 6d.
18ct. Gold,
pure five Double-cut
Diamonds, £5 ;
3 liubies or Sapphires
and 2 Diamonds,
£3 10s and £4 10s.
Larger Diamonds,
£6, £7los, £lO, to £5O.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, 5 Opals,
1-Hoop,
£2, £2 10s, £;s,
£3 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Solid Gold,
Extra Strong and
Hea\y, one or three
Diamonds,
£2, £2 10s, £3, £4, £5.
SAVE 25 to 50
PERr CENT.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Odd, 2 Hearts,
Diamond,
and Ruby, 35s ;
2 Diamonds, £2 ss.
With Name,
Band RINGS.
9ct. Solid Gold, 12s 6d.
15s ; 15ct. Gold. 20s,
255,; 18ot. Gold, 255,
30s, 355, £2.
For Size, cut hole in Cardboard.
A. SAUNDERS. , e e .
Hand-made Wedding Rings and Keepers.—9ct. Solid Hold, os
7s lid, 10s each ; 15ct. Gold, 15s; extra heavy, 255; 18ct. Gold, 20s;
extra heavy, 30s, 355, 40s. Quality of Gold and Finish First-class,
A. SAUNDERS,
LHADING ART JEWELLER.
SAVE 25 to 50
PEE CENT.
815 & 817 GEORGE-STREET.
Nearly Opposite
Railway Station,
SYDNEY.


Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Not genuine without the signature.
Be sure you get Martin’s. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
Travelled Miles for Advice. —Con-
stables W. Stapleton and Priddle were walking
along Elizabeth-street when they saw, a few yards
ahead of them, a man who tottered and fell. They
at once went to his assistance, and as he was
apparently suffering from epilepsy, Stapleton
procured a cab and took him to Sydney Hospital.
On arrival there Dr. Waugh applied restoratives,
and the man gradually recovered. He told the
constable that his name was W. Lut/.e, that he
was a native of South Australia, and of German
parentage. He had just arrived in Sydney, and
was on his way to The Freeman and Wallace
Electro-Medical Institute, Elizabeth and Bathurst
Streets, Sydney, having come over from his farm
in South Australia for the purpose of consulting
the Institute.*
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28, Shoe-
lane, London, England.*
1
gjg £|g
~= -=•
“ /level rrjind baby 1 Jt will soon grow now.”
Harlene
FOR
THE
HAIR.
The very Finest Dressing.
Restores the Hair.
Promotes the Growth.
Arrests the Fall.
Strengthens the Roots.
Preserves the Hair.
Renders it Beautifully Soft.
Removes Dandruff. •
Allays all Irritation.
Preserves,Strengthens, and Invigorates
Childrens' Hair.
Full description and directions for use in
20 languages supplied with every bottle.
1/-, 2/o,and (triple x 6 size) 476 per
Bottle from Druggists, &c., all over
the World.
Edwards’ Harlene Co.
High Holborn, London, Eng.
Business, Robbery, etc.
An “ossifer ” in the Salvation Army defected
the other day, and explained it thus “ The cause is
right enough, but the man who owns it is too fond of
promoting. Promotion means a new uniform every time,
and if you’ve got a constant job in the city at a couple of
pounds a week you’ll rise from brevet lieutenant to dry
admiral or principal horse marine in about a month.
Then he’s always issuing ‘ general orders ’ altering the
distinguishing badge of the rank you happen to be in at
the time, and that means a new uniform too. I’ve paid
for eight uniforms, and I’m full up.” Whereupon writer
asked him if he knew that the hook-nosed man that
owns the Army also owns the place where the uniforms
are made, and has to make business somehow if that
place is to show good profits. He didn’t know it, and
the information caused him to be the maddest sea-major
and mounted infantry commodore you ever saw.
• * . .
Maoriland, in proportion to population, sent
more soldiers to South Africa than even Britain did.
Maoriland, in its desire to cringe to J. Bull, paid £150,000
to the debenture-holders of the swindling Midland Rail-
way Co. when the highest courts in the Empire decided
that they had no claim to a penny. And this is the sort
of mud it gets thrown at it in London :—“ Undeterred by
the snub received in 1901 (when the underwriters were
stuck with nearly half the issue), the dishonest little
State of Maoriland has the assurance on this occasion to
ask 94£ for £1,250,000 more of the same 3 per cent, stock
which last time it could not place satisfactorily at 94.
Those who are foolish enough to take this stock must not
be surprised if later on the Maoriland Government treats
them as it treated the unhappy debenture-holders of
the Maoriland Midland Railway.” Grovel doesn’t pay;
neither does “ loyalty.”
* * * •
“ Chass ” : Re the seizure of putrid rabbits and
the finding of an hydatid cyst in one of them (8., 4/4/’O3).
The inspector was very lucky to find only one of the
rabbits affected. The winter following the wet year ’94,
writer and a mate put in a fortnight rabbit-trapping, and
50 per cent, of the rabbits caught had hydatids. Have
seen the cysts all over the intestines, and in some cases
the back, legs and sides were affected. The cysts are
generally pricked before the rabbits are sent to market.
« » • *
“ Polstun ” : A friend told me that on a recent
visit to a sauce factory he saw a huge vat filled with
tomato pulp, or squash, or whatever it is called. The
surface was teeming with gentles. “ I suppose you shy
all that rotten stuff out?” he remarked, casually, to the
man showing him round. “ Oh, no,” came the startling
reply, “we just skim it and make the top stuff into
tomato sauce ; it makes up very well.”
AT A STREET-CROSSING.
CONSTABLE (to cabby): "Whoi didn't ye shtop whin Oi put me hand up?"
C ABBY: “ Well , so I would; but it was all I could do to keep the ' oss from shyin' at yer feel."
l, Eko” : In reply to “ J.A.C.” (8., 4/4/’03):
He holds a pawn-ticket for 55., on which sd. has to be
paid per monih. He says he pays 100 per cent, per
annum. Yet this isn’t so shocking as it looks. Let him,
with 4s. 6d. out of his 55., buy six dozen Ages (as he may
from the office), and sell them on the street at Id. each.
He gets 6s. for them, or 33| per cent, per day, or 10,433 i
per cent, per annum. How does that compare with the
pawnbroker’s 100 per cent. Again, let him take his ss.
pledge to a parcel office at a railway station, and he paj s
3d. a day and gets no advance at all. What per cent, is
that? .
Grocers deal in sugar, drapers in tweeds, bakers in
bread, and pawnbrokers in money. “J.A.C. pays bis
grocer thousands per cent, per annum to place sugar
before him, the draper tweeds, the baker his bread, and
the pawnbroker his money. Let the grocer make but a
farthing a lb. on his sugar, and try and calculate what
per cent, per annum he makes on the first lb. he sells. If
he sells at 3d. it will come out over 100,000 per cent, per
anm m ; and, further, he doesn’t pay for it till three
months after. Notice, he sells his sugar, pays his mer-
chant, and keeps his profit. The pawnbroker pays first,
and receives his profit only when the transaction ceases.^
Money is the cheapest thing to buy. If “ J.A.C.’
bought anything else with his pledge he wou.d pay far
more than 100 per cent, per annum for it. I have proved
it. He might argue : “ But the pawnbroker holds my
coat in pledge.” But until he redeems it he has paid
nothing for bis ss. I grant that the pawnbroker is better
secured than most business men, but the return on capi-
tal invested is not nearly so great. Can anyone name a
pawnbroker who has made a pile at the game . I know a
dozen (I was a clerk with one myself) who make a good,
comfortable living, but not one who—not doing pro. note
biz—could be considered rich. Look at the Melbourne
Mont de Pi6t6, with its numerous branches over the
suburbs. It averages a 7£ per cent, dividend a year.
Surely that contradicts the illusions of the enormous
profits of the pawnbroker.
Money lending, pro. note biz, post obits, etc., etc., are
different. Here money is made, but this is altogether
apart from pawnbroking.
* • • *
In the S. Australia wine districts they re-tell
the yarn of the party of visitors who, at the local pub.,
drank success to the local industry. Every speaker of
them eloquently referred to wine as the national and
natural beverage. Afterwards, somebody found the
waiter’s list for that round —ten beers, four whiskies, two
gins, one rum and raspberry !
I ve been getting square with some of my
recalcitrant hayseeds,” said a Yic. country schoolmaster
to writer the other day. “ I’ve made the ‘ poor cocky ’
fork out his share towards the stricken finances. When
the war was on, they clamored even in this forsaken
district for blood, and shed patriotic tears that damped
their evening copies of the scare-headed Age and Argus.
When the Duke o’ York was buzzing through they got
hoarse with expressing loyalty. But when the Treasurer
wanted the promise-to-pay signed, they said, 1 Out down
the civil servant’s screw.’ When the civil servant mur-
mured he was disfranchised. Now they come to me to
fill in their income-tax papers, and I’ve filled them up
honestly, and knocked out all the fraudulent deductions
they’ve been trading on for years, and when the assess-
ment papers come in you won’t see this district for curses
and dust.”
• • • ■
“ Chasselaa ”: Statement by “ Gr.” (B. 15/3/’03):
“ The enterprise and industry of a Ballarat manufacturer
is responsible for present complete harvester and its
being manufactured locally,” is misleading and unfair to
other pioneers of the machine. First complete harvester
was designed and made by a forgotten Beaufort (Vic.)
man, Rupert Smith, many years ago; it required eight
horses to work it. Two Ballarat makers and several
Melbourne firms began manufacturing them simul-
taneously about 18 years ago. Both Ballarat firms went
down at the game, and one was never resurrected. For
years the harvester was accursed amongst cookies.
Within recent years the Ballarat firm mentioned by “ G.”
and several Melbourne firms have had on the market
good, light, workable machines, and the biz. done in
them is enormous. One Melb. firm only has had a work-
able harvester continuously on the market since the
invention of the machine. Now there are at least 20
different makers competing for the farmers’ trade in
these States.
* * * *
Once again. Every woman is at heart a widow.
Writer, who combines industrial life assurance with other
house-to-house commodities, was trying, t’other day, to
inveigle a housewife into taking out a sixpence-a-week
endowment on the life of the family pride. Everything
for a moment seemed exceedingly encouraging. The
victim was slowly and fatally beginning to see the “many
advantages to be derived, &o.,”and the happy day, 20
years hence, when she would proudly present her 24-year-
son with a cheque for £21, to receive which she would
pay the company £26 and lose the interest, had begun to
work effectually on her imagination. Pen in hand, she
was about to sign the paper, when suddenly she inquired
what she would get “ at her husband’s death.” Explained
that under table Z she would get nothing, as it covered
only life of party assured ; whereupon she flatly refused
to have anything to do with it, and roundly denounced
the whole business as a fraud. Result: came away with
an “O.L.A.” (on life of another) proposal on life of the
husband. How many husbands nightly retire to a hard
bed blissfully unconscious of the surreptitious policy on
their precious lives, carefully secreted with the marriage
lines and the unpaid time-payment drapery bill? Good-
ness only knows. Writer has hawked Table Z and Table
Q around for years, and he doesn’t know.
Dear B.—That par re faked Chow lottery
ticket (8., 28/3/’O3) won’t hold gin, let alone water. A
“bank” ticket shows 20 marks; a 6d. ticket only 10,
though two 6d. tickets (20 marks) can be had on one slip.
A punter producing a genuine ticket with 20 marks
similar to the bank’s would be entitled to £l5O. Such a
phenomenal win, however, rarely occurs, and the claim
would never be paid without investigation. Further, as
the bank tickets are marked in red and the punters’ in
black, any attempt at fraud by substituting one for the
other would be at once apparent, and “two youths”
trying this game on would require a subsequent visit to
the nearest hospital for repairs. Every attempt to beat
the Chows at this game invariably results in : Chow Ist,
Rest nowhere !— Pak-a-Pu.
* • • •
The W.A. Full Court recently delivered an im-
portant judgment in the matter of “tied” houses. The
matter came up at the instance of one Simms, a publican,
who applied to the Court to rescind an order made by a
Judge in Chambers restraining him from procuring beer
from any other firm than the Perth Brewing Co., pending
an action by the latter. Simms had mortgaged his lease-
hold and agreed to get beer from the co. only. He paid
off the mortgage and obtained beer from other firms —
hence the trouble. The Court held that the tie ceased
with the release of the mortgage, which decision makes
the enslaved public-house business totter a good deal on
its basis.
• * r »
“T.D.”: The casual gardener and hedge trimmer
who goes round looking for odd jobs in Melbourne
suburbs is a person not to be offended by refusal of his
services. The other day a man called at writer’s front
door, and wanted to know whether he couldn’t trim down
the lawn a bit, and make the place presentable. After
much persistent effort he was induced to take his foot
from the door opening and depart. As he went down the
path, he put his hand in his pocket, pulled out a handful
of something, and scattered the stuff well over the buffalo
grass. X went out to investigate, and found a varied
assortment of seeds, bits of thistledown, and all sorts of
weed rubbish. The gardener had cleared somewhat
abruptly during this examination. A neighbor had a
similar visitor some time ago, and shortly afterwards his
lawn showed a joyous profusion of docks, Cape goose-
berries, nettles and other vegetable pariahs. When he
had wasted much effort and useless swear in trying to
eradicate them, the same gardener came round with a
knowing grin on his face and offered to clear the pests
away at eight bob a day.
ONE THING AT A TIME.
PUBLICAN: “Didn’t ye promise, Gayan, that whin ye'd hev wan more dhrink ye'd go home? Ye
doan’t seem to he doin' aanything towards keeping yer wurrd!"
GOGAN: “Oi (hic) hev! Oi’ve had the (hic) dhrink!"
The decision of a Melbourne magistrate that the
presence of a sandwich in the room, while a customer is
consuming an otherwise unlawful Sunday drink, makes
the latter a perfectly lawful Sunday meal—that it
becomes a case of the customer having beer with his din-
ner instead of casting a glance at some food while he is
having his beer—opens up quite a dazzling vista for the
much-harassed Bung. The latter will now, no doubt,
follow the example of the New York saloon-keepers, who
use specially-made india-rubber sandwiches. The ordi-
nary sandwich fell to pieces too quickly, and gradually
assumed an offensive appearance; besides, occasionally,
a thoughtless and hungry customer actually ate it.
Hence the appearance of the rubber sandwich, which can
be cleaned up without damage after it has been pawed a
few times, and which lasts indefinitely. By the way, in
what department would the Customs officials place a
rubber sandwich ?
« » * *
George Adams is credited with now owning
£250,000 worth of hotel property in Hobart. He’s evi-
dently determined to effectively buttress his sweep
refuge: “ let me conduct a people’s public-houses and I
care not who makes its laws.”
* » * *
“E.E.”: Was told by a member of a Sydney
firm of slop-sellers that they sold more suits to a 425.-
make-to-order tailor in a month than they sold over the
counter in a year. Said tailor carries on business a few
doors away, and on getting an order for a suit he gjves
the purchaser a sample and matches the material, takes
the leg and arm dimensions, and buys the 30s. slop suit
that most closely resembles the measurement. The suit
is then sent to the firm’s factory to have the creases
pressed out, and the customer is pleased. It is only
the erratically-built customer whom no slops will fit who
gets a real made-to-measure suit.
* * • »
“S.T.S.”: Re the-District Council clerks and
rates never in arrear (B. 14/3/’O3). The latest English
papers tell of a Welsh official who, either from pride or
laziness, paid up out of his own pocket all uncollected
rates. His clean sheet was the admiration of every audit
for years, and it was only at his death last month that
the benevolent deception was found out. Now his family
is making frantic endeavors to recover the arrears, most
of which are probably by this time hopeless.
* * *
Inquiry into the causes of the hard frost in the
Scotch whiskey business has elicited that “ a great deal
of the trade with the colonies and West Africa is in the
hands of men who buy 1 Hamburg spirit,’ 50 per cent.
o.p.,atBd. per gallon, and make it the basis of ‘pure
Highland blend.’ ”
* » « *
Recent issue of American Brewers’ Journal
contains this slab of wisdom headed, “ Government Hotels
in Australia ” “ Following the example of her sister
colonies, Victoria, which maintains a hotel at I’entridge,
near Melbourne, and New South Wales, which has a simi-
lar establishment at Darlinghurst, near Sydney, the
Government of Westralia has decided to open a
‘national’ hotel at Gwalia some time since last year.
The idea is to furnish good hotel accommodation at points
where they would be an aid to local employment, but
ere the business prospects are not at present large
■lgh to attract capital.”
FANNING THE FLAME
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(“Blessed are the penny-piece-makers.”)
“I suppose,” said William Scroggins, “it’s the daily
paper’s game
To be fannin’ everlastingly the old sectarian flame?
I suppose it riles one party, while it makes the other
grin,
And it helps to sell the paper, and it brings the pennies
in ?”
“That’s their game,” said Jim M‘Unity, “that is why
the Telegraph
To a small sectarian squabble gives three columns and
a-half,
As to whether Cardinal Moran will endeavor to deny
That some yarn of Rev. Howler’s is a thumping Saxon
lie.”
“If the Cardinal,” said William, “told a monumental
cram,
’Bout the British in Samoa, do we care a tinker’s d ?
Or if Reverend Howler really told a thumping Saxon lie,
What the dickens, Jim McNulty, does it trouble you
or I ?”
“Not a bit,” said Jim McNulty, “but these editors
know how
There is nothing sells the papers like a big sectarian row,
And the savager they make it, and the fiercer it is
fought,
Why, the bigger the sensation, and the more the paper’s
bought!”
“ As to whether Reverend Howler or the Cardinal is
right
Doesn’t make a bit of difference, all the papers want is
fight ! ”
“ That’s the way it looks,” said Scroggins ; “ that’s pre-
cisely what it means ;
Stir the boiling pot, the papers meanwhile rakin’ in the
beans.
’Course the Cardinal and Macky won’t be likely to agree.
But what odds about their barneys to the likes of you and
me ?
It’s the mutton-headed public that is properly to blame
For encouragin’ the papers what is livin’ on the game !
W. T. GOODGE.


To Cure Dog Ailments.
Eminent V eterinary Surgeons
and Dog Fanciers (see Book
on bottle) strongly recommend
Condy’S Fluid as a Certain Cure
forDistemper,Mange, Eczema,
Bites and Wounds in Dogs.
Insist on having “COlldy’S Fluid.”
All substitutes are inferior.
Condy’S Fluid is sold everywhere
by all Chemists and Stores.
TO > 11-1 |
I GOLAN!) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hageiy,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Eiizabeth-st., Sydney
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
AUSTRALIAN STAMPS
Bought, Sold & Exchanged.
Gibbons’ Philatelic Albums
and all requirements. Price lists gratis.
J. H. SMYTH & CO.,
88 KING ST., SYDNEY.
SPECTACLES
—FOR —
DEFECTIVE
VISION, to
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
T . dress, with full in-
structions and 1 rice List, our marvellously-accurate
and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURING PATENT
By its use you can Test y ur own sight and de-
termine for yourself the style and quality of the
glasses you may need. Write for it to-
ll* A. BARRACLOUGH* Optician,
385 Ceorge-st., Sydney (opposite Strand Arcade).
“Don’t shout
" I hear you. I can hear now
\ as well as anybody.
How ?’ Ob some- ’
thing new —The Wilson.
Common-sense Ear-
Drum. I've a pair in my
ears now, you can't see them
they're invisible. I wouldn
know I had them in tnyseq-
only that I hear all right.
The Wilson Ear-Drum ts
1 really a substitute for tne
parts of the
natural ear. Has no
wire. Invisible, easy to aa
just, comfortable ** Totally
different from any other ae-
| vice Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request
[«». CHALHggS. 229-231 railing St. f Hglgl
POLITICAL
POINTS
The nation without puddling furnaces will
always be a pauper dependent on some iron-
making country.
Until it grapples with the big financial
question of borrowing and the big industrial
question of Protection, any Labor Party must
remain a Labordn-Vain Party.
The new Tas. Labor party intends to
move, as soon as it can, for a miners’ accident
relief fund on the lines of the one at work in
N.S.W. And as to the necessary money ?
Willis, M.L.A., quotes a case of aN.S.W.
outback settler cooking and eating Government-
supplied seed-wheat. The settler was starving,
and next season was the same to him as next
century.
The Flyspeck’s Parliamentary allow-
ance is £lOO a year ; and as that won’t maintain
the dignity of even a Labor M.P. after the
family’s tucker bills are paid, the three West
Coast members, all practical miners, intend
filling in the recess at their old “ graft.”
Editor Bulletin. Sir, —Another surf-
bathing fatality on Manly Beach ! This needless
sacrifice of human life should be stopped. A surf-
boat, to patrol outside the surf-line, would serve.
I think a loan should be floated at once to buy and
maintain a surf-boat. — One of the Crowd.
The Victorian Legislative Assembly con-
sidered a particularly depressing business-paper
one night recently, including the Probate Duties
Bill, the Coroner’s Act Amendment Bill, and the
NecroDolis Bill. This sort of thing was cheerless
reading for an Assembly which knew that one-
third of its members were awaiting political
burial.
The “ Fourth Party” in the British Com-
mons—about which cables are plentiful now—is
a coterie of malcontent Conservatives, of Cecils
out of office mainly. It repeats the tactics which
Premier Balfour in his young days tried on Salis-
bury with such good effect. Every Cecil in
England reckons that he have a place and
kicks until he gets one.
A Nerang (Q.) sugar planter was recently
haled up for registering the whole of his estate for
the white labor rebate, and then employing
Indians to cut a portion of it. A Philp magistrate
fined him the minimum penalty on the plea that
he believed it to be a purely technical error.
Strange how inadvertence spreads from calico
importers to sugar growers
THE NATIONAL FOOD .
ENGLISH VISITOR: “ But—ah —my friend , don't you — ah —evah tiah of dampah and—ah—
mutton and — ah —kanyawoo? ”
NATIVE-BORN: “ Tire—great Scot! Would yer have a cove tire ov his tucker ?”
Cowley, the Queensland M.L.A. who
“ loves the kanaka as a brother,” says he is going
to contest the Herbert (N.Q.) electorate against
Bamford at next Australian general elections. A
lot of Cowley’s pets have been slashing about
with axes and cane knives lately—clearing the
way for him, probably.
The world is pretty well divided into iron-
raising countries and foreign-loan-raisingcountries.
Britain, France, Prussia and the United States
&c., raise iron ; Turkey, Australia, South America
and other places raise foreign loans when they can
get them. The raising of iron, loans, infants and
Cain are the four rises which condense the world’s
history.
Westralia wants settlers; but, says its
Premier James —
The State cannot constitute itself a convenient post to
be leaned against by every tired farmer who, in time of
drought, curses the Government and prays for rain
instead of cursing his own shortsightedness in not praying
for more self-reliance.
Which, besides being neat, is horse-sense.
After N.S.W. Treasurer and Calamity-
Howler Waddell had delivered his four-column
speech about the huge deficit and the need of cut-
ting down salaries, old age pensions, public works
and everything else, his constituents, as usual,
presented him with a huge list of local works
which were wanted immediately regardless of ex-
pense. And the Calamity-Howler gravely pro-
mised them his speedy attention.
Melbourne Age in a recent leader went
baldheaded for compulsory resumption of big
estates, and for settling a nation of sturdy and
prosperous yeomanry on the squatter’s coveted
sheep walks. This is David’s answer to the
Argus “Land our Mainstay” articles, and he
has the country at his back in this move. A
strong man in Vic. politics could work up an
agitation that would make things sultry for Vic.
rack-renting land-owners.
Every one of the larger Maoriland centres
has witnessed just the same foolishness as Sydney
suffers from ; every few hundred yards one strikes
a town-hall, each with a mayor and a council and
a cupboard, and mostly a debt. Now Dunedin is
seriously thinking of mending its ways, and the
Christchurch group has gone even farther. An
amalgamation proclamation has been gazetted,
and there will shortly be some abandoned town-
halls for sale thereabouts.
Beautifully lucid argument by Enabling, a
massive old Tory of the Victorian House of Rich
Landlords (verbatim report from Argus) :
He could not bring himself to recant upon the subject of
the double dissolution, which, in his opinion, would, in the
first place, sap the foundations of the Legislative Council,
and, in the second place, would produce no result what-
ever, inasmuch as if both Houses were returned by the
electors in the same mind as before the dissolution, the
gap which divided them would remain unbridged, and
the expected finality would not be secured.
Premier See, of New South Wales, has
put his hand firmly on his stomach and declared
that any man who charges him with having ever
taken 6d. out of the public accounts is a—in
short, a liar. Quite so, but who was so
foolish as to lay such a charge ? And why wa,ste
time repudiating so vigorously the 6d. that exists
only in Mr. See’s imagination, while the
£1,000,000 deficit which glares like a baleful
ghost out of the public accounts so badly wants
refutation.
Cabled that the German Government is
building 39 huge magazines for storing wheat —to
regulate supplies and guard against scarcity—and
is making advances to the farmers on their pro-
duce. An eminently socialistic forward step. By
guarding against both a glut and a famine the
Government ensures a steady, normal return for
the farmer’s produce, and at the same time
delivers a knock-out blow to that soulless, non-
productive parasite—the middleman of the wheat-
buying class.
The Maoriland Government intends over-
hauling the machinery of the Conciliation and
Arbitration Court during the coming session, and
making what repairs experience shows to be
necessary. Labor legislation isn’t always perfect
at the very outset, any more than is banking
legislation, or legislation for the grabbing of land
in huge areas by rich M’s.L.C., or land-grant
railway laws. The Fat Man always professes to
be surprised and shocked at this fact, but it is
quite an ordinary one.
Sydney D.T. shudders at the increase of
£421,684 in the nine months Customs revenue.
There has been no expansion of industry, it says,
to account for the rise. But that’s where it is
wrong ; there has been an expansion of industry—
at the Customs House. Also at the police court.
R. B. Ritchie, M.L.C., tells a gruesome
tale about a Victorian engine-driver who drove
his locomotive for two years without being once
decently sober. It would be interesting to find
out whioh enthusiastic Kyabram reformer was
member for that drunk’s constituency and kept
him in his billet.
Evidence before the Federal Iron Bonus
Committee shows clearly that the cheap produc-
tion of iron in N.S.W. is possible. But the
committee must recollect that in the early stages
of a new iron industry the promoters would in-
evitably have to face much loss from mistakes in
plant, from want of training in the labor em-
ployed, and so on. The bonus is intended to
make up for that.
Certain Cape Colony goods are going into
the Transvaal free, and Sydney Telegraph heads
it “Freetrade in South Africa.” Federation
brought Australia exactly the same kind of Free-
trade on a larger scale and over a much larger
area, but the Telegraph never mentions that
blessing.
It is rumored that two lone irreconcilables
of the Vic. House of Landlords —Nathaniel Levi
and David Ham —have serious thoughts of asking
the King to veto the Reform Rill and preserve the
Landlords in all their old ignorance. In the hour
of trouble even the Jew and the Ham sink their
differences.
Within a week after the Lewis Government
in Tasmania lost its billet, and every individual
member of it lost his seat in the Assembly, and its
party was lost almost to the last man, for imposing
an income tax to cover the deficit, a deputation
called in on the Victorian Treasurer and remarked
that “ the ability of the people to bear taxation
was the real security of the British creditor.”
What use is the ability when the intention isn’t
there ?
There are some pretty hard cadgers in the
Commonwealth. The North Queensland Rifle
Association recently decided to get its champion-
ship badges from Hingland or Germany, or some-
where abroad, so as to discourage local industry ;
and it was proposed, on top of this insult, that
Customs Minister Kingston ought to let the gew-
gaws in free as a special concession. Kingston
will be much better advised if he calls on Parlia-
ment to raise the duty on baubles and frills of
this sort to 1800 per cent.
N.S.W. Ministers are indignant at recent
defections from the ranks of the Govt, supporters,
and at others pending. In almost every case the
wobbler is disgusted with the Government for
two reasons. (1) Because it spends so much
money on works ; (2) Because he doesn’t get
more works for his own electorate. The policy of
lavishness only makes the road-and-bridge mem-
ber fat and insolent. The man who was glad of a
culvert in Dibbs’s time is now quite insulting if
he doesn’t get two railways.
At Sydney Agricultural Show, Governor
Rawson said the “ exhibits were ample evidence
of the enormous capabilities of the State and the
tenacity of its people.’’ Then the old Viking
strolled round and looked over the vast array of
American machinery, Belgian hats, German
boots, chemicals, cutlery; Austrian bent-wood
furniture; Japanese nick-nacks. That show
chiefly evidences the enormous importing capa-
bilities of the State and the tenacity of the people
in sticking to the nefarious borrowing policy.
England is also getting weary of the alien,
and this latest example of patriotic song receives
“wild encores” at the leading London halls
nightly
It’s a very nice place is England,
For the hurdy-gurdy grinder and his breed ;
It’s a beautiful place is England,
For the Continental sharper and his creed ;
For the rakings and the sweepings of the Universe
She will do the best she can :
It’s a damned fine place is England—
But not for an Englishman !
The Owe’Sullivan on his enemy the Owe’
Connor was one of the joys of Tamworth election.
The general result that Tamworth gathered from
the Owe’Sullivan and others was that the Owe’
Connor was a political mendicant, pauper, outcast
and turncoat, whom the Owe’Sullivan and the
Owe’Crick had lifted from the political gutter,
and who had since gone back politically to his
natural habitat. What a lot of politicians are
always lifting each other out of the political
gutter ! And what a lot of them seem to be still
there !
Before Kingston visited Brisbane the in-
furiated Freetrade importers were going to treat
him with withering contempt. Then Kingston
upset their apple-cart by publicly reading official
documents from the Queensland State Treasurer,
in which that harassed man asked him to take
strong measures to remedy the tremendous
Customs leakages in the Banana State, arising
through the jjross dishonesty of these same
importers. It is difficult to treat a man with very
much withering contempt when he has papers
like these about him.
Eden George, who has cast off his allegi-
ance to the present N.S.W. Government, refuses
to resign his seat and give his constituents, who
returned him as a supporter of Premier See, a
chance to say what they think about him. His
excuse is that Dan O’Connor did not resign his
seat in similar circumstances. But a constituency
elects Dan for his brogue and his whiskers —not
for his principles. If Dan shaved he would
doubtless resign, like an honorable man, and give
his constituents a chance to decide whether they
could stand him in his hairless state.
“ Bully” Bent is plainly losing confidence
in himself —everybody else lost it long ago. He
seldom takes anything on his own shoulders now.
If anything is wanted in the Vic. Railway Depart-
ment —from a fishplate to a locomotive—the now
crushed Bent says, “I will consult my colleagues
about it.” When Bent assumed office he rose up
on his brief hind-legs, without any reference at
all to his colleagues, and talked as glibly of sack-
ing 2000 or 3000 men as he would now talk of order-
ing Is. worth of paint. Quite a lot of the cursing
connected with the railways is done now by Pre-
mier Irvine while Bent hovers in the background.
The Westralian Govt, has, unluckily,
gone down in the Full Court on one of its regula-
tions under the Early Closing Act. The “ small-
shops ” bugbear exists over there as it , exists
everywhere else, and hence, to save the measure,
it was agreed to issue “small shop” licenses.
The Govt, knew that this plan of hanging up the
law threatened to kill it entirely, and therefore
tried to reduce the risk by another regulation,
fencing out all Asiatics. The Full Court has now
ruled that regulation out, and the small Asiatic
shopkeeper is to be exempted from the Act like
the European one. Which is some more evidence
that the only sure and satisfactory way to deal
with the Asiatic is to have no Asiatic, except
possibly a dead one.
Writes a man from Perth :
Labor matters are very much mixed in Westralla just
now. The decisions of the Arbitration Court and the
Registrar are a coruscation of whirling lights. Very few
of the unions know how they stand as regards registra-
tion. The law explicitly forbids the duplication of
unions ; yet there are two carpenters’ unions registered
in Perth, and two miners’ unions in most of the goldfields
towns. The Registrar is a somnolent individual who
wakes up now and again to find that he has wrongly
registered some society, and proceeds to cancel the
registration in a hurry. One of the carpenters’ societies
was registered twice over ; then the registration was
cancelled ; next the cancellation was annulled, and the
union is now vaguely wondering where or what it is.
W. M‘Millan told the Australian Chamber
of Commerce (London) t’other night that “the
exclusion of the hatters ” (who weren’t excluded at
all) had “terribly humiliated the Commonwealth,
and he intended to test the feeling of Australia on
that clause in the Restriction Act.’ ? Rumored
that when he starts out on his “ testTfig ’’ ram-
page he will have something really severe to say
about the acting leader of the Federal Opposition
(one M’Millan), who helped to pass the law which
the Barton Govt, enforced, and who didn’t tell
the Commonwealth then what a humiliating thing
it was.
THE CONSERVATIVE TREE.
“We do not gather grapes from thorns nor figs from
thistles, and can’t wonder at the fruits of the Conserva-
tive tree —two Ministers found guilty in two months.”—
AGE.
The Hare system of voting, with its
elaborate scheme of first, second and third prefer-
ences, and its weary counting and re-counting of
the vote, has been definitely dropped in Tasmania.
The same men got in after 18 counts as would
have got in after one ; and the Treasury was just
as short of money as ever; and the debt and other
troubles weren’t alleviated in the least. Poor
Miss Spence, of S. A., wasted 41 years of her life
in advocating this or some similar system of
“effective voting,” and the result is nil. The
same time and energy given to advocacy of the
effective payment of our debts might at least have
left an interesting footprint on the shores of Time.
In referring back again a to-be-reheard
case lately, Melb. Magistrate Panton said, what
is fact, that the County Court Judge is merely
chairman at the General Sessions, and that the
common “honorarium” has a perfect right to sit
with him on the bench at sessions, “and he hoped
they would go up to General Sessions and do their
duty.” It is sincerely to be hoped they will take
Panton’s advice. A few such exhibitions as that at
Prahran lately—when a honorary beak publicly
excused a girl who nearly kicked another one to
death because the culprit worked in a jam factory
—from the County Court Bench would bring
about the speedy abolition of the fearsome
“honorary.”
Even the highly respectable newspapers
begin to suggest that things will probably happen
presently. The Launceston (Tas.) Examiner, for
instance, says it is “extremely doubtful,” in the
present state of the money market, whether the
Vie. Treasurer will be able to borrow £5,500,000
in order to repay the same amount falling due
at the beginning of next year. And if he can’t
borrow the State can’t pay; and w,hen a State
can’t pay what it has undertaken to pay* it is
just plain bankruptcy. So the sober, staid, dull
Examiner states in so many words that insol-
vency is highly probable, even within a twelve-
month. In that case, it is about time to take a
serious view of things.
The latest scheme for settling the Federal
capital business comes from a Victorian, who
proposes that Melbourne should be the selected
city, and that a goodly area surrounding and
including it should be resumed as Federal terri-
tory. The balance of Victoria, he proposes,
should be divided between N.S.W. and South
Australia, and the name of the Cabbage Garden
State should thus be wiped off the map. And
there are real advantages about the idea, for
Melbourne would thus cut loose from the remnants
of Kyabram, Tom Bent and his railway troubles,
the Mallee farmers, and the House of Rich Land-
lords, and quite a lot of objectionable things
would doubtless be lost in the confusion. .
Tommy Bent’s Victorian railways grow
wilder and madder every day. For instance, this
is the series of grievances embodied in one telegram
to the Age from Natimuk :
Saturday : Train an hour late. Monday : Train broke
down on the way, and waited till new engine arrived.
New engine also broke down. A passenger who knew
something about engines did some temporary repairs.
Train seven hours late, and second engine, despite the
repairs, arrived dead lame. Tuesday : Train three hours
late.
And practically every town is supplying similar
news nowadays. Seemingly Bent hasn’t a
locomotive left that isn’t falling to pieces, and
even when Thomas runs behind using the most
violent language the ancient bogged creature
refuses to budge.


ABOUT THE CALLAGHAN
Special Boot
FOR MEN.
Full Description Follows:
SOLES—SoIid oak-tanned stout walking soles,
stitched on a Goodyear machine, with best
Irish Flax Thread, warranted not to rip open.
UPPERS —Uppers and vamp are out from plump
skins and are not skimped in any way.
LINING —A good grade of leather.
The innar sole is milled perfectly
smooth on the surface and free
from nails, creases or thread.
HEELS —Square trimmed,
Size 1 inch, properly
nailed.
PRICE 16/6
POST PAID ... 17/6
TAN LEATHER 17/6
POST PAID ... 18/6
-- ■
■ S
a ■ •,
In Black, 17/6
In Tan, 18 6
POST and DUTY FREE
to any address in the Commonwealth,
except W.A.,
We SAID we expected to sell Thousands of these Hard Wear Boots for
Hard Times* ♦ ♦ ♦ Our expectations will soon be realised*
You will find it really a Hard Wear Boot for Hard Times.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 ceorce st., Sydney.
BLOOD POISONING. A Bad Case !
Cured by
VITADATIO
Dawes Point, Sydney,
1 George-street,
13th February, 1900.
Mr. PALMER.
Dear Sir,—lt is nearly three years ago since I had the
first symptoms of a trouble which has since caused me
terrible agony and inconvenience. On consulting a
doctor he told me that I had a diseased toe caused from
blood poisoning. I went to the Sydney Hospital and
there underwent an operation. The doctor removed
part of my toenail, and told me that he thought I could
never be really well as far as the foot was concerned, but
that he had done all that could be done in the meantime.
For a time the foot was better, but this improvement
was only a temporary one. After about three months
the sore broke out again and was worse than ever it had
been. I could not get about, and did not have a boot on
the foot for more than two years. At one time the lump
was as large as an egg-cup. Finding that the doctor’s
treatment had failed to cure me I tried every ointment
that I have heard of, but with the same unsatisfactory
results. The pain was almost unbearable, and in agony
I decided to consult another doctor. He told me that an
abscess had formed under the nail, and that the nail
would have to be removed again. I had decided to have
the second operation performed, when something
prompted me to make enquiries about VITADATIO.
These enquiries led me to give your medicine a trial, and
the result is most satisfactory. Now my foot is perfectly
healed, and I can do what I have not been able to do for
nearly three years—wear a boot. Only yesterday I
walked six miles, and never experienced any pain in my
foot whatever. All my friends consider that my cure is
wonderful, ahd as no one knows so well as myself what
great-benefit I have derived from VITADATIO, I feel that
it is only right for me to let you know, so that others
may be induced by my cure to take your remedy. I
shall be delighted to give any particulars to anyone who
may call at my house. I forgot to mention that the pain
in the foot was so severe that a lump would sometimes
come under the armpit. I have taken nine large bottles
of the medicine. At first the foot became much worse,
but gradually it improved, and I am certain that
VITADATIO has curexi me from the trouble which has
been the cause of such severe pain.
Wishing you every success.
Yours faithfully,
JANE SOHWEER.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney .
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The price of medicine is 6/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
Free for Asking:.
%A#RITE to us and we will forward you our scientific
* * book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong- and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Write
to G. Specific, Elizabeth Street, North Melbourne.
CNGINEMAN’S MASTER KEY. -All subjects
™ relating to Examinations for' Certificates of Com-
petency in all the States. 365 Pages, 106 Illustrations;
6s. 6d. posted, by L. F. R. SCHNABEL, Consulting
Engineer, 443 Bourke-street, Melbourne. Also COLE’S,
Melb ourne, Adelaide, Sydney.
A CURIOUSJVIISTAKE.
DESPITE the advanced teachings of The
Bulletin, many of its readers are like the
old woman who only listened to one side of an
argument, because she could make up her mind
easier. Now don’t be like the old woman, and
make the curious mistake of thinking that,
because Queensland is smaller than the Southern
States, she cannot compete successfully with
them. But before making up your mind, write
to Charles Gilbert, the leading Cash Tailor,
Brisbane, for patterns of New Winter Suitings
(including a special line of soft twill finish pure
Indigo Blue Serge at 50s.—the suit to measure,
carriage paid) and Self - Measurement Forms.
Then compare the values. You will think
differently.
DEFORMITY
APPLIANCES.
We make a new and up-to-date SPINAL
JACKET of American Design.
It is Light, Comfortable, and adapts itself to the
movements of the body and perfectly answers all
Requirements.
Also the Latest Designs of Leg: Steels (Instru-
ments), Extension Boots for Club Feet, Knee
Caps, Belts of all Descriptions, Splints, Crutches,
&C., &C., &c.
DENYER BROTHERS,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY
and at MELBOURNE.
Lfor&tiUei flights
<%ea, LLlcy Jnfcui ts
TRY ’
L
FOOD
fief use a// //n/faf/ons
Satisfying. Strengthening Soothing for Infants.
Agreeable. Digestible, Nourishing
AGfflrS POP SYD/V£Y %
SAYffiS AILPO/rT <* POTYff?
[RIDGES FOOD MILLS LONDON. Eng
The Australian Sailorman’s Book—
E. J. BRADY’S
“Cbe mays of many maters.”
A rattling collection of Sea Chanties. Price
ss. 3d. post free from The Bulletin office.
“The Lady” says that Sunlight
Soap never injures colors, but
rather revives them.
Sunlight
SOHP
REDUCES
EXPENSE
*9
.......
|Bfc\
' '
\ 1
V 1
3
a
f r ~
tr
CORSETS
The Recognised Standard
High-Class Corsets
LATEST SPECIALTY
STRAIGHT FRONT
NOUVELLE FORM
Obtainable from Leading
Drapers Everywhere.
Avoid Inferior Imitations, and see that
»ach pair bears the Manufacturer’s “Trade
Mark ” on band inside, as above.
AT Poverty Point.
The other day (according- to an English society journal)
two officers stood up in the stalls of a London theatre
and conversed loudly, regardless of the cries of “ Sit
down 1” that came from the pit. Suddenly the voice of a
pittite (evidently well-versed in the “ragging" scandal)
convulsed the house: “ They can’t: they’re in the
Guards 1 ”
Advt. photos, of Edward Lloyd depict him as
warbling with a piece of music in one hand, and the
other hand in his trousers’ pocket. The pose doesn’t
seem to harmonise with a sentimental ballad.
Very little was said about the death of Meyer Lutz,
who preceded Kate Vaughan to Shadowland. What time
Kate was a dancer at the London Gaiety, and for many
years after that, Meyer Lutz conducted the orchestra and
served the management as composer-in-ordinary. Lutz
was quite a brilliant composer of the sort of music
wanted for a Gaiety burlesque. He wrote some pretty
graceful pieces for “ Faust-up-to-Date,” which intro-
duced the third Gaiety co. to Australia in ’92. He never
made the most of himself professionally, or called atten-
tion to the fact that he had a famous brother in Baron
Lutz, the Bismarck of Bavaria.
“ Adelaide ” : Curious to read of the success of “ On
and Off ”in Sydney. It was played here for one night by
Charles Arnold, two or three years ago, and taken’off in
a hurry. A play is generally an approved success before
it gets here, so that this, and a piece of Harry Conor’s,
are the only two that have (of late years, at any rate)
started out for an indefinite run and collapsed after one
night. Certainly “On and Off” must have been very
steep in the original, and if it had reached Adelaide in all
its precipitousness it might perhaps have done better.
A recent number of London Sketch published an inter-
view with Mrs. Langtry, “ the Happy Possessor of Im-
perial Beauty and the Imperial Theatre.” The “imperial
beauty ” of the faded Lily is illustrated in a page of snap-
shot photos, which, even in their re-touched state, fail to
conceal the fact that she is only a painted ghost of her
former self. Not a handsome woman with autumnal
charms, but an imitation of the young woman who began
to be a professional beauty thirty years ago. In her
efforts to remain youthful-looking Lily Langtry seems
not quite so successful as poor Queen Alexandra, The
Queen is practically the same person for photographic
purposes that she was in the ’7o’s.
“ Melb.” : Meeting Courtneidge is indeed a reminder of
Time’s flight. It seems only the other night when we
heard him shouting for the limelight in the dying scene of
Valentine in “ Faust Up-to-Date,” wherein Lonnen, as
Mephisto, descended from the flies holding on to a red
umbrella.
Tamati Parata, M.H.R., of Maoriland—the English of
it is supposed to be Tom Pratt —journeyed 30 miles to
see the first performance of “Tapu” in Dunedin. What
thoughts passed through his chocolate-colored cranium
are known only to himself, but he grinned broadly, and
perhaps derisively, when big Chief Charlie Albert led the
haka. Possibly he laughed at the legs of the company.
Most of these extremities were thin, and perhaps they
were hardly like the solid brown, hairy supports that
used to whirl in the haka in Tom Pratt’s youth.
A new feature in up-to-date London theatre
programmes is the inclusion of Society engagements and
marriages. If our theatre managers would go one better
and print the list of divorces we poor women would
not mind the long and, as a rule, solitary “waits"
between the acts while the men are out seeing a girl
about a cat. We are dead tired of studying the corset
advertisement.
Erskine Scott, now acting as press representative for
Wirths’ Circus, laments the fact that he met his death
in the newspapers some 20 years ago, and has never been
fully resurrected. He was a member of the Melville-
Verdi Co. that went to India from Australia, and was
reported to be pretty well wiped out by plague or fever.
Subsequently when it became known that Emilie Melville,
Verdi and others were not dead but acting, the survival
of Erskine Scott was overlooked, consequently the bones
of his original identity have mouldered away, so to speak.
“ J.A.C.”: It would be interesting to know who is
responsible for the granting of permission to that cor-
poration of sweaters, the Salvation Army, to erect tents
in a Sydney public reserve, to wit, Hyde Park. Such a
concession would not be granted to a circus, and a
circus would pay for the privilege, and, what's more,
would pay its employees, too.
Oscar Asohe, the one Australian-born actor who has
achieved real distinction in London, is engaged to play
Bill Sikes in Beerbohm Tree’s forthcoming production of
, T * ist ' ~ _ .
.. • ? ea .L? d Charles I Why w ? re . h
the «tage ? What an Aminadab Sleek, what a Joseph
Surface I Great would have been his lago,
Hamlet would have been rather too much
MrB ' B -' v He would have done Affable Hawk
as well as Mathews.
p “ 1 ?- F '” V line in “ Poverty Pollnt" Adelina
Patti was 60 years of age on Feb. 10 So sh .says. The
Book says differently. I have an Illustrated London
of 1862, in which Patti s performance of May in
that year is compared with her London performance of
the previous year, and it was fully a year before she made
her debut in London that the prima-donna had created a
gensa ti o n in New. York. It is not credible that Patti was
only 17 _ bare iy 17—when she scored her first American
triu J mph in opera . [Some solid books of reference,
we j g hing as much as 21b. each, say, at all events, that
Pat ti was born at Madrid in ’43, and that she was only
sixteen when she made her first appearance at New York,
an( j eighteen when she appeared at Covent Garden in
« Sonnambula.” However, she may have beamed on the
editors of these books and got them to alter the dates. —
Ed B ]
m , ~ ~ ~.. , , , .
Th f e Melbourne weeklies which published a photo, of
amate , ur actor Moulton when he played Ingomar for Mrs
G ’ B ’ , Lew ' s *} Jenetlt ’ at f the Bo f yal laBt y ear h ’ hav K e^ rU ®*' y
it as a portrait of Moulton the absconder,
M° ult ?. n an awful warning to stage-struck clerkhngs.
A U^P' 1 of ■Mrs. Lew's, he made h,s first and only appear-
an?l °" the Melb boards in Oct. last, when he added a
P? lr of false-bottmm d hoots to his small stature and
P' a - yed th ® hairy barbarian. Considering the novelty of
the situation and the enormous boots, he did it very well.
Within the next three months his accounts went wrong,
anc j be wen t touring round the backblocks of Vic. with a
sln all co. His youthful head is said to have been turned
by the “ flattering notices” he got for his first amateur
effort. Alas ! poor Ingomar 1
’ F B
Mis 3 Nora Kerin, the fairy queen of “ A Midsummer
Night’s Dream ” (Melb. Prin ess’s) is among the favored
fevv actresses who have attained to charming young
heroine characters in famous plays whilst they them-
selves are, in real earnest, both charming and youthful.
Also she ha 3 the exceptional merit of being even prettier
t han her portraits. She was appearing in Manchester
with one °* George Alexander’s touring companies when
mana f er Courtneidge struck by the thought that she
would ™ a he an ideal Titama, engaged the young lady
f ° r hlB production of “Midsummer Nights
Cream at the local Prince s Theatre. Her talent was
equal to the opportunity. Miss Kerin is a natural
actress: the art is born in her. Julia Neilson and Lily
Hamburg are her cousins, and Melpomene and Thalia
were probahlj- related to the family in ages past. After
her success as Titania she appeared in “Ben Hur” at
Drury Lane, returning to the Prince’s Theatre to play
Rosalind in “ As You Like It ” last October,
Melbourne musicians are hoping, almost against reason,
for a boom in orchestral concerts this winter. Marshall
is first * n t * le a PP ea l for subscriptions
towards a series of three strictly German concerts start-
jin £„ early The saturnine enthusiast may
a lr y solid support from the public provided
the sole vocal arti st at each concert is not Madame
w 'e ( lennann, of whose moamngs it is pos-
-81 e t 0 kave too much. Apart from Marshall Halls
scheme, there is “ an effort to institute a series of rector
? r rchestral concerts, begmning on the last Saturday in
May, and continuing through June and July,” the months
when the cold Town Hall is at its draughtiest. In the
event of a guarantee fund and a decent subscription list
being achieved the orchestra will come to pass —6O per-
formers, with Professor Ives as conductor and violinist
George Weston for leader. The circular soliciting guaran-
tees for these “regular” concerts gives no hint re the
nationality of the intended programmes. A vigorous
anti-German movement, antidotal to Marshall Hallism,
might find favor. But where is the ground for believing
that Melbourne wants a dozen or more orchestral con-
certs this season ?
“Glenara” writes from Ararat (Yic.): “This town
keeps up its reputation of being an actor’s grave. No
sooner has the dust settled in the west where one co.
trudged out with 2d. than the dust rises in the east,
where another co. trudges in with 3£d. The last really
prosperous show hereabouts was Noah’s great Ark and
Menagerie.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
c#>
&
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
axr.s/w.
(Qont deplete j).|i|. Co., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
CASTLEREAGH ST.,
SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
-tji 15-
Colonial Mutual Life
assurance society limited,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Robhrts
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miulkr.
Accumulated Funds, £2,595,870.
Policies issued 88,299—assuring £26,826,380.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,767,115.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses— eouitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A.. General Manager.
The Bank of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director-JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J P Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Phi)p& Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700.000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share- n __
holders 250 900 ... £350.000
fhe
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMITED.
' APTTAI. PAID-UP .. .. •• •• •• £156,927
tESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS. 176,239
tESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 58,000
£691,166
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst, Mn£r., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Queensland Smelting Qompy.
** (LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
•DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
-t> Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, the Branch
Office, 54 Market-street. Melbourne, or IRWIN HINDS,
Branch Manager, 6 Spring-street, Sydney.
The savings bank
HAS MONEY TO LEND in VICTORIA
at 41 per cent., in sums of £5OO to £15,000, on Town
Properties ; and £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES
FOR FIVE YEARS, with option of paying off part
half-yeariv.
FARMERS’ CREDIT FONCIER.
Loans from £5O to £2OOO at per cent, for 31J years.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
29 Market-street, Melbourne.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Sydney : Hon. A. W. Mbeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Hon. John See, Lt.-001. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L A. Jessop Lsq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Berth, A. W.
Farquuar. J. J.ALLEN, G en enJMana|er^Australia
Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders
2,000,000
500,000
Total Capital - .. £2,500,000
The trustees, executory
AND
agency company limited,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 (
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business)
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murra
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, E?
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BOItROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Managei
our No. 56 ACETYLENE CAS Catalogus
im-
r*: l^4:
8 the MOST COMPLETE
and COMPREHENSIV
ever issued.
Tells all about the Be
ACETYLENE CAS GENE
ATORS, LAMPS, a
everything in connect!
with ACETYLENE.
Nearly 400 of our
Reliable Automatic
Acetylene Cas
Generators
in daily use.
Large Slocks of the
Best
Carbide
ofCalciu
Quotations on applicatio,
James MART IK! St CO.j
161 Clarence Street
Nr. King-st., Sydney.
Shipping.
HXT- 3D. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Br.emen, via Ports.
*Twin-screw steamer.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
Interstate First-Class Return Tickets are now available
for Return by the Steamers of the P. and 0., Orient
Pacific, or M.M. Co.’s.
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. STETTIN. 18th MAY.
And Regularly Every 6 Weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
TN€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London .
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
AUSTRALASIAN.
SOPHOCLES
SALAMIS
A. Walker
H. A. Schleman ..
A. Douglas, R.N.R.
Noon, May 1
Noon, May 22
Noon, June 12
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. £55 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. £3l 10s .. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £l2O.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
Huddart, Parker & C°’s t ine
—TO —
MELIKHJUNIS, HOISAUT,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTKALIA,
NEW ZEALAND POUT’S.
Pares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
- A.3XTI3
LINE
via
San Francisco
California.
FASTEST AND BEST
ROUTE
TO
ENGLAND,
Via America and Canada*
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
ri'HE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
1-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
ji Long drink
&
f
I
HE I
NTSE
FRUITJ
pURE
Lime
Fruit
Juice
Sole Consignees—
EVANS SONS,
LESSHER & WEBB,
Limited.
London & Liverpool.
Agents:
Elliott Bros., Ltd.; J. Connell & Co., Sydney.
0. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.
¥
WE SHIP ON APPROVAL
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles. Fully warranted.
Latest
Models'
£2.10 t0£5.5.0
Dunlop Tyres, Steel or Wood Rims,
Free Wheels, Mud Guards and Brakes
CARRIAGE PAID
To any Port in Australasia.
TYRES, ACCESSORIES,
Sporting Goods and Sewing
Machines Half Usual Prices.
Write f'*r Catalogue and Special Offer
Using 2£d. Stamp. Address Dept 3^6ii
Mead Cycle Co
Chicago t
O.S.A.
JE EULLETSN STORY BOOK :
By Sixty Bulletin writers. Cloth, 300 panes ;
price, 4s. 6d. ; postage, Od.
SOLE DISTRIBUTING AGENTS :
-SWARDS, DUNLOP & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisnane.
THE GREAT { O °SaND } HIGHWAY
TO THE UNITED KINGDOM,
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, and AMERICA.
The NEWEST, LARGEST (6000 Tons each), FASTEST,
and ONLY TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS engaged in
the TRANS-PACIFIC PASSENGER SERVICE from
Australia and New Zealand.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
OCKANIC STKAMSUTT CO., LTD.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts. SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
]MOA.]VA., Min.’S' 18.
The Most Popular Steamer on
the Pacific.
FOLLOWING SAILINGS—
JUNE 15. JULY 13. AUGUST 10.
Grand Excursion to the Rocky
Mountains of America, £6O, Includ-
ing all Expenses, for 63 Days and
a Trip of 15,000 Miles.
APPLY FOR PARTICULARS.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
Unrivalled Position in LONDON
(England),
The Langham Hotel
PORTLAND PLACE
And REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality.
iTodern Appointments. Moderate Tariff.
Hygienic Water Filters
AVOID TYPHOID, ILL-HEALTH, and DISEASE
BY USING OUR
Hygienic Water Filters
With Rubber Attachment to fit any Top.
THE CHARCOAL AND SILEX
which these Filters contain is the very
Best Water Purifier Known to Scientists as It
Removes all Germs and other Impurities
When ordering mention size of tap in use.
PRICE : LARGE
SIZE,
45.,
MEDIUM
SIZE,
2s.
POST
j PAID.
Agents—VICTORIA: WARTZKI, FREEDMAN and CO
GEELONG, VIC.
Agent—QUEENSLAND : ARTHUR BRAY,
92 EAGLE ST., BRISBANE.
Agent-TASMANIA : WERTHEIMER, BENJAMIN and
ANDERSON, HOBART and LAUNCESTON.
Agent—SOUTH AUSTRALIA : AUSTRALIAN TRADING
AGENCY, GENDERS BUILDING, ADELAIDE.
Agent—N.S W. : ANTHONY HORDERN and SONS'
HOLDSWORTH, MACPHERSON & CO., SYDNEY, ’
and all Hardware and Ironmongery Stores.
If notrobtainable at your Storekeeper, send to
Sole Agent, Australasia,
J. LANDES, 108 Pitt St., Sydney.
At Dawn and Dusk:
By V. J. Daley. In handsome cloth,
with portrait. Price 55.; postage, 4d.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Austra' an,
Victorian and Queensland Ports. *
FOII MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT I'l tF!
And OIJLF ' (ITS
ESPERANCK BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
toallNorth Western Porta
S.S. Allingfp,
Friday, Apr,l 17.
S.S. Marloo,
Saturday, April 25.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oatrna
S.S. Buniiiyong, Friday.
April 17.
S.S. AUinga, Friday, April 24
S.S. Warrego, Sat., May 2.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
p.
AND Q COMPANY’S
V *‘ ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi'
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
i.. , ““'S*', I/O
Ditto Ditto Return, £66 to £ll5
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by Orient-Pacific, Messageries
Mari times and N.D.L. Steamers having room. '
63 Pitt-street.
A. GORDON WESCHE,
Acting Agent.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and POUT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £l7 to JE77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Custom*
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
State Ports are available lor return by P. and 0.,
Orient Pacific and N.D.L. steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Olliee*
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydnev.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY THE . .
“E. AND n.” LINE.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Steamer. .Tus, Commander. .Leave Sydney.
♦EASTERN ... 4500|winthrop Ellis .. May 13
AUSTRALIAN .. 3600 P. T. Helms .. June 10
♦EMPIRE .. 3000,W. G. McArthur.. July 8
I I I
♦Does not call at Port Darwin.
EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe via Canada,
U.S. America, or the Trans-Siberian Railway.
For handbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.,
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-st., Sydney.
DR. J. GOLLIS BROWNE’S
fNLOROPm.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BfiOMCHITIS,
DLARRHCEA, 1*““
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—■
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
IHE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS jI
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“If I were asked which single medicine I shoul 1
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to
most generally useful, to the exclusion <•>
others, I should say Chlokodyne. I fj? ver 1 ,
without it, and its general applicability to
relief of a large number simple ailments to
its best recommendation.”
ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curlv Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each.
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern ol
write for any Information. Country Orders r
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers a. Wigmakers.
i>end to us for Price Lists of Anything yon want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Koyal Lounge Hairdressing 0
ffW Every Requisite for Saloon (Jsb in Srocu.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia
CFIAICJ Air A.ITKB^»
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 George Street, Sydney-
p r i\ I *T* o
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES-
Audkbss.— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Meibom


Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or Now Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per-
cent. of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors— Thomas Littlejohn, Esq.,Chairman; The Hon. A.'W. Meeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
Esq. ; Senator J. T. Walker ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ; F. E. Winciicombe, Esq., M.P.
General Manager and Actuary —Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
FLAVELLE, ROBERTS
The Most Highly
Qualified Opticians
in all Australia.
cAi
SANKEY
Queen St., Brisbane,
Rockhampton, London.
Scientific
Manufacturing
Opticians . .
Save Double Profits by Procuring from the Makers.
««tl
«• M
Oculists’ Prescriptions of
all Kinds made up.
ASK FOR PRICES.
SPECIAL ATTENTION given to Pre scrip
tions by Post from any Part of
Australia.
Moderate Charges,
Good Work,
Jj TT p
ll"!|l' "/%
•Hi.,it U 1 //S
x* o^v
JL* A v Vav
4"'* < k
V'
Sight-Testing
FREE.
SEND FOR FREE BOOK,
" The Human Eye
and its Care.”
BEST LONDON SMOKE SOLID NICKEL
GOOGLES FOR LIGHT OR GLARE, 3s.
SPECTACLES TO ORDER, from ss.
glk=>
ALL REPAIRS BY RETURN FIAIL.
FLAVELLE, ROBERTS ■‘•SANKEY
Optical Workshops
150 Queen St., Brisbane
East St., Rockhampton
Under the direction of Mr. C. Sankey Fraser, F.S.M.C., Fellow of the Worshipful Company of Spectacle Makers,
London ; Diploma, British Optical Association ; Diploma, Visual Optics, Northampton Institute ; Diploma,
Applied Optics, Northampton Institute. (All the above honors were gained by examination.)
The Owl Cut-Rate Drug Co.
Manufacturing and
Dispensing Chemists.
We have special remedies for the correct and effective treatment of Nerve and Blood Diseases. Testi-
monials from all sources proving their efficacy. Write for Printed Price Lists ; they will be mailed free.
NOTICE. —Our ELECTRIC BELT, price 10s., usual price £l, is infallible in the cure of WEAKNESS and
STOMACH DISORDERS. Electricity re-invigorates the vital nerve sections, governing the processes
of digestion and nutrition. It effects a sure cure. DR. CLARKSON’S “ RE-INVIGORATOR,” a
VITALISING, NERVE, BRAIN, MUSCLE, and BLOOD STIMULANT. We still offer £lOO for
any case we cannot cure. Price, 7s. 6d. per bottle. Three bottles, £l. Post Free to all parts of
Australia.
Py ram id Pile Cure. —A certain remedy.
Fincham's Face Bleach. —Clears the skin from Spots, Redness, Roughness, Freckles, Tan,
Sunburn. &c. Invaluable for use in the country.
Fincham’s Infallible Worm Powders. —Specially suitable for children. A certain cure for
worms.
Fincham’s Celebrated Pectoral “Cough I Cure.” —Invaluable for children. A Reliable
Remedy for Croup, Asthma, Whooping Cough, and all Throat and Lung Affections.
Fincham’s “Gout and Rheumatic Cure. ’’--Takes certain effect in cases of Acute Lumbago,
Sciatica, Lame Back, Headache, Shoulder and Muscular Pains.
Dr. Hughes’ “Fits Epilep.”— A certain remedy for Epilepsy and Fits in all forms.
Dr. Wilson’s “ Neuralgia Mixture.” —One Dose Relieves, One Bottle Cures the most
agonising Face Neuralgia.
Fincham’s “ Capiline.”— A Nursery Hair-Wash for Children’s Heads. Unsurpassed. One Bottle
Sufficient.
All these Invaluable Remedies will be posted to any Australian address, secure
from breakage, on application to —
Note the Address : THE OWL CUT-RATE DRUG CO.,
C. P. FINCHAM, Pharmaceutical Chemist. 227 ELIZABETH ST., Opp. Hyde Park, SYDNEY.
GARDNER’S SPA WATER
From our Springs at Helidon. OWEN GARDNER & SONS, Brisbane (Head Office) &at Helidon.
JAYNE S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE WORSTCOUGHS.
A Minister for Music and Red
Umbrellas.
Let us discuss the desireableness of appointing in
the Federal Cabinet a Minister for Music and Red
Umbrellas. In a community where so much is
done by politics, that seems to be the best prac-
tical method of driving away the unnecessary
lugubriousness which afHicts this continent—that
sad spirit which has been imported and accli-
matised from a damp Northern Ocean country
along with the rabbit and the Scotch thistle. Let
our sadness and brownness, our glumness and
moodiness, be dealt with by Acts of Parliament
and Supreme Court regulations. Another Crom-
well is called for—a constitutional Cromwell
of cheerfulness and roystering good humor—a
Cromwell without a wart or a penitential psalm
in his whole nature, to bring to the scaffold the
reigning gloom, and knock the heads off every
solemn frock-coated statute and bell-toppered dull
convention, and instal in the glow of the Aus-
tralian sun, Music and the Red Umbrella.
• • * *
It will be the first duty of the first Minister—
the champion of pure cheerfulness, the revolu-
tionary anti-gloom hero—to look to the houses of
the people, to open up their windows and to sur-
round their walls with flower-beds. Then to the
clothes of the men, stripping off the black coats,
smashing down glossy stove-pipe hats, scattering
around Panamas, sombreros, boaters, cow-boy
hats, lavishing flannels, linens, and scarfs of silk ;
not interfering lightly with the garments of the
women, which, thanks to Fashion, are gene-
rally bright enough—music in their silken
rustle, glow of pink pearls and young' rosebuds
through the white samite of their muslin sleeves.
Still, even in the sacred matter of feminine clothes,
the Minister for Music and Red Umbrellas
would have to interfere to some extent. No
lady with unduly thin arms should be
allowed to wear transparent sleeves. Exceedingly
fat ladies should not be permitted to wear black.
In gay stripes or bright pinks they look, at the
worst, humorous; in black they look like un-
pleasantly bloated cockroaches, and would cast a
gloom over aDv Red Umbrella.
• * •
Then let the Minister turn to the streets,
frowning down the packing-case style of archi-
tecture ; insisting on a little glow of mosaic and
fresco on the walls of public buildings, suggesting
flat roofs ; setting up here and there a restaurant
on a building-top 150 ft. high, where, among the
upper breezes, food might be eaten and tea or
wine sipped to the splash of fountains and the
whispers of wind-shaken palms; smiting the
smoke-stacks which pollute the air with the car-
bon that should be pot-boiling, as Israel smote the
Amalekites ; and strewing trees everywhere. The
Minister for Music and Red Umbrellas might
then to the parks to ask steridy why the
untidy and the funereal should be ever the
most favored of trees Moreton Bay figs,
cypresses, dull pines and firs, suggestingdeaths and
tears and the trappings of woe. Why should
we weep so much in our vegetation ? Why not
plant more frequently trees that will smile in
Spring with young tender green, and laugh out-
right in Summer with rich spread of glossy leaves,
and glow in Autumn with red and gold, and in
Winter meekly and modestly undress, saying to
mortals that now they will want a little undiluted,
unshaded sun, and that no thoughtful tree would
stand in the way of such a wish ? The evergreen
trees, too often the ever-brown-green trees, are all
very well in their way. Our native gum, with its
mysterious reticence, its air of tender pathos, is
the very tree when the best girl has smiled on the
other fellow and the mind is tuned to soft
repinings. Jut in addition to them there should
be the note of Music and Red Umbrellas in a
recreation park, some trees that flaunt and flame,
that glow and gladden. Of blossoming trees there
would be plentitude in all properly-managed public
park, native acacias and cedars and pittosporums,
and sterculias with their wealth of red coral, and
imported beauties such as the jacaranda, and
those cherry and peach and pear trees which, by
luxurious education, have become the exquisites of
their kind and refuse the labor of bringing forth
fruit, spending their wholcjume in dressing them-
selves with fine blossoms, What blue devil can
live when he sees a tree, a whole tree, ablaze like
an azalea in a sunny corner, towering up to the
sky with a mass of color on every spire? Shrubs
and climbers and runners which flower freely are
delightful and must not be neglected, but a tree,
a real forest giant, all aflower —that is exhilarat-
ing, intoxicating. Going down Sydney Harbor to
Manly, some day, you may see the giant jacaranda
of the Botanical Gardens in all its purple pomp,
lifting an exquisite tower of light and perfume to
the heavens. The Minister for Music and Red
Umbrellas would see to it that such a sight was
visible in many other places, and that when it was
not the jacaranda’s visiting day it would be the
pink peach-blossom’s or the white acacia’s or the
red flame tree’s.
• * * •
Unfortunately the Minister for Music and Red
Umbrellas would have to touch upon religious
questions. That is always a nuisance. But no com-
munity dedicated to a life of cheerfulness could
afford to allow its streets and its parks to be dese-
crated by the damnatory denunciations of the epi-
leptic forms of Christianity. Cheerful preachers
and cheerful singers certainly, but no Hell and no
Blood. All persons wishing to gloat over their
neighbors’ coming tortures in fire would be rele-
gated to galvanized-iron receptacles. On a hot
day, there’s a lot of sense of reality for material-
hellites to be found in a galvanized-iron con-
venticle. Such organisations as the Social Purity
Brigade of the Tenderloin district (which reckoned
that there was no need to be gawky even if one was
holy, and that a little frisky frivolity with a pretty
girl eased the sinner’s heart of the chains of wrong)
would be distinctly encouraged—if they are to be
found outside of comic opera.
• • • *
Food, too, would come within the purview of
the Minister for Music and Red Umbrellas. To
the jaundiced eye a red umbrella cannot convey
its true lesson. The production or consumption
of over-drawn tea should be punishable with ten
years’ imprisonment. No one to eat pork without
a license. Coffee to be pure—not made of baked
horse-liver, burnt peas, or chicory. Cakes covered
with lolly arabesques and stuffed with whipped
starch, cotton-oil and raspberry jam to be eaten
onlv bv women who have given up all hope of matri-
mony. Without being unduly tyrannical, the
Minister for Music and R,ed Umbrellas might
work steadily towards an ideal of light, bright
menus. Dyspepsia would be regarded by him in
something the same light as the bubonic plague or
Asiatic cholera ; if the newspapers should report
the discovery of ten cases (under scare cross-
heads) he would be in dancer of a vote of censure
and dismissal from officq And music, music in
all proper places at all proper times —brass bands
on wind-swept ocean cliffs, string bands in quiet
alcoves, a tinkling guitar in an occasional cosy
nook ; and, most important of all, in some spots
great havens of absolute silence.
* * * *
To appoint such a Minister would require the
amendment of the Constitution ? Even so ;it
would be the salvation of so many constitutions.
A Minimum Wage for the Importer’s
Clerk.
Practically the only persons, in most of the
States, to whom unlimited sweating now remains
possible are the Calico Jimmies and the rest of
the importing and office-dwelling tribe; and
about the only poorly-paid person who now hasn’t
the protection, however slight, of the minimum
wage or some similar law, or the aid of some
union or combination, is the foreign-trader’s
clerk. The great bulk of the people whom the
manufacturer employs are protected, even to the
pale little woman who stitches shirts and who has
hitherto been, perhaps, the most helpless of them
all. The tall-hatted importer points to these
things, and says that it all shows how the manu-
facturing industry has to be bolstered—that Protec-
tion can’t be trusted to pay their wages without
State “interference.” But, though the tall-
hatted importer says this, he never proceeds to
say how much he pays his own assistants. Even
supposing that the protected industry cannot be
trusted to pay decent wages and give decent con-
ditions, it does not make the case of the foreign-
trade industry any better, for it does not prove
that that industry pays decently without the
State’s “interference.” The position is conse-
quently just this : Something approaching a decent
wage and decent conditions are now assured in
almost every urban producing industry so far as
concerns the principal States, while the foreign-
trade competitor can pay as little as he pleases
or as he can get anyone to accept. So,
though the foreign-trader is always whining
for free and fair competition, he obviously
doesn’t get it: apart from the long start he
gets by handling the products of cheap labour
abroad, the very little labor which he does em-
ploy in his own market he is permitted to sweat.
He says, nevertheless, that he wants fair compe-
tition ; he might very properly be now taken at
his word. His clerks and assistants cannot,
however, for several reasons, be relied on to move
in the matter. For one thing to join with the
Labor crowd in asking for a minimum wage or an
arbitration award would give their silly little
dignity much too violent a shock ; for another,
they may possibly think that, if their foreign-
trade bosses paid them decently, their occupation
would be gone; and herein, to a great extent, they
may be right. But in any case, whether they are
prepared to ask for this thing for themselves
or not, it ought to be somebody’s business to see
that they get it, if only to let the national indus-
tries and the foreign-trade parasites start as
nearly as possible off the same mark. The thing
thus calls for doing, not only in the interests of
the foreign-trade employees themselves, but in the
interests as well of the home industries and the
people engaged in them. For it is foolishness of
a very unwise type to merely prescribe a minimum
wage for the local manufacturer without making it
possible for him to pay it. If he can’t do it without
losing money no number of laws or awards will
save the minimum wage for long, and he has little
chance to do it if his rival, the importer, may pay
anything he darn well pleases. Everyone interested
in maintaining or advancing the minimum wage,
is in this way interested in putting his heaviest
foot on every attempt of the foreign-trade com-
petitor to get or keep an unfair advantage. In
stopping some of the wretched little steals and
frauds to which the importing tribe has grown
accustomed Customs Minister Kingston has thus
been doing good work, not only for the revenue
and for honest trading, but also for the home
industries and for the maintenance of fair con-
ditions for the men and women engaged in them.
But, besides this unfair advantage with which
Kingston has grappled, there is still this other
unfair advantage remaining to be tackled in the
same spirit. The fact that the manufacturer’s
clerk doesn’t come under the minimum wage law
has very little bearing on the case. The clerk or
shopman is a mere fraction in the manufacturer’s
business ; he is almost the whole of the importer’s
business.
The Progress of Maoriland Unionism.
Premier Seddon, of Maoriland, indicates his
intention to shortly go the whole commendable
hog and give preference to M.L. unionists bylaw.
As matters stand, the Arbitration Court generally
awards preference ; it does so whenever it can be
shown that there are enough unionists to conveni-
ently do the job. But, in practice, the award
isn’t worth so much as might appear, because the
unionist is not to get preference unless he is at least
as good a workman as the non-unionist ; and as
the employer has to decide which is the better
workman, it really means that he employs pretty
well whom he pleases. Hence to legislate that
unionists shall have the preference only under the
same conditions—in other words, to give them by
law always what the court now gives them
in most cases —will not amount to a great
deal. So far as it does go, it is no doubt
good. If certain men bind themselves
to come within the scope of a law which
the country has decided is a good law, then
it is only a fair and reasonable thing for the
country to give those men some advantage
over the others who will not enter into the same
bonds. An amendment of the law might, how-
ever, go a good deal further than this ; it might,
in effect, give absolute preference to the unionist;
and the result of that would be to forbid the em-
ployer to take on a non-unionist, no matter how
good a workman, so long as there was available a
single unionist, no matter how poor a workman.
That would be a much more radical change. Yet,
provided the Court carefully overhauled every rule
of every union, eliminating everything to which a
reasonable man could object, there is really nothing
very amazing about it. The union would not
in fact be a labor union within the old or ordinary
meaning of the word ; it would rather be a body
of men who had given guarantees to accept the
awards of the Arbitration Court instead of trying
to get their way through the old-fashioned brutal
strike. It would, of course, have to be left open
to any member of a trade to, at any time, go to the
court and move for an amendment of a rule to
which he objected; but if the court was against
him there seems no good reason why lie should
not bow to it, just as he would have to bow to the
decision of any other court. •


DRYSDALE’S ANTIBILIOUS PILLS
for biliousness, indigestion, headache, loss of appetite,
giddiness, &c., are prescribed by physicians of the highest
standing, who acknowledge their thorough efficiency in
all cases. 1/1 per box, post paid. P. J. limbury,
chemist, Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane.*
There is more fun and bedevilment pro-
mised in N.S.W. politics. Writs are now said to
be flying around between W. P. Crick and Dan
O’Connor. What Mr. Crick has against Mr.
O’Connor The Bulletin isn’t going to say, but
Mr. O’Connor’s complaint against Mr. Crick is of
“ language ” at an election meeting.
Mr. JOHN F. FLEMING, No. 59 N. 23d st.,
Phila., writes : ~
“ A SEVERE COLD, which settled in my chest,
caused me considerable pain and difficulty in breathing.
I tried Jayne’s Expectorant, and before I had finished
taking: two small bottles of that medicine, 1 was
ENTIRELY WELL.”*
A REAL PICK-ME-UP.—“Talk about cham-
pagne,” said Byron, “there is nothing winch
cheers your spirits up like a dose of salts, bu
had he known Hunyadi Janos he would certain y
have preferred this, the best and safest natural
aperient.*
A heavy cloud of debt and taxation may
be glowering over this continent but the Eas er
holiday crowds didn’t seem to bother. In ac ,
trouble never lingers among the happy peop
who pay judicious attention to the brand o
favorite whisky. And because Australians r g
nisethat D.C.L. dissipates difficulties they are
coming to look upon that brand as essen
their well-being, at holiday or any other •
The latest term for a robust-looking citizei #
‘ ‘D. C. L. -er.’’ By their brand ye shall know them.
Ailments of horses, dogs, cattle, sheep, pou try,
etc. —their Treatment and Cure. A veterinary book
We have seen a copy of the useful little Vet derfu i
which is now attached to every bottle of that' . al j
veterinary remedy “ Condy’s Fluid, ar >d r . t 0 bu y
our readers who are interested in animals o j n
a bottle of Condy’s Fluid and carefully rea^, e d b b ° e L.
question as it is full of valuable hints. . bat the
chasers of Condy’s Fluid should insist on se g w r
book above referred to is attached to'the ba 1
on the bottle, they may then be confident infe ' r i or ,*
getting the genuine article. All substitutes
W. N. Willis, M.L.A., as a land agen
needs no black-tracker to guide him t roug
devious paths of the Land Acts He fights
his cases, and the harder the task th *
like it, and wins all the time. 21 Bligh-
FACILE PRINCEPS.
SEMPER IDEM-,
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
RESCH’S SELECT STOCK ALE... LAGER
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives. BREWERY and OFFICES: DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY. _
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Now is the time of the periodical threatening of
the Sydney shop Moses with divers penalties and pains
unless he ceases to chase the nimble half-caser anywhere
else than at Tattersall’s Club and on the race-course.
Two police sub-inspectors went around the shops on
Saturday morning and gave the warnings ; but the matter
will end there. No betting shops will be closed, no book-
makers will be jugged, except a few of the members of
the big institutions who, from time to time, engineer the
crusade against the shops with the hope of driving the
small punter’s shekels into their own bags on the race
course—they may be possibly run in for bad language at
the helplessness of the police.
Dear Bulletin. — No doubt the easy-going Aus-
tralian public, which seems to accept any sort of public
robbery on the we-should-do-the-same-if-we-had-the-
chance principle, or lack of principle, is to blame for the
sturdy growth of the blackmail practice among horse-
owners. Had the public, when the game first started,
shown an angry and obstinate disposition to hold their
own, it might have prompted subsequent drawers of
valuable tickets in “ Tatt.’s” to bid the blackmailer do
his worst, in which case the imposition would have died
a natural death. Horses ran for the stakes, plus owners’
bets, in the old times, ere “ Tatt.’s ” sweep became a
national institution, and yet we now find timid fools
talking of the sweep as though a slice of it were abso-
lutely due to the men who had no ticket-holders to
intimidate in days of yore ! If there were no fools there
would be much less blackmailing than at present.
Ticket-holders are frightened by threats which owners in
most cases could not afford to carry out. When a good
horse has been thoroughly ripened for an important
engagement, it is good enough for the owner to run him,
and put money on his chance, and the ‘ ‘ approached ”
ticket-holder may safely tell him to go to blazes if he
comes along with threats of scratching the likely winner.
—E.F.
• • • *
Crowd on opening day (Saturday) of A.J.C.
Autumn meet was sized up at 16,000 —a record for Leger.
Odds of 2 to 1 were laid on Abundance while same, t’other
way about, were available Great Scot. Other starter —
Queensland crack Balfour—wasn’t marketable to any
extent, though sevens were freely offered. Throughout
the finishing mile and a furlong Great Scot and Abun-
dance were practically coked together at a spanking
pace. The half-mile saw Abundance’s head in front, but
his opponent stuck to him and, turning into the straight,
Abundance seemed to falter some ; then Great Scot’s
nose forged ahead again and was soon half a length to
the good. Here the favorite made a final effort
and, under pressure, swerved to the track centre.
Abundance gained every stride amid excited roaring
from thousands and barely got upas they flew past the post,
but the judge thought otherwise. Abundance’s number
was hoisted, only to be pulled down again and Great Scot’s
substituted. A second or two later down came the sema-
phore once more, and the numerals were a second time
reversed. Excited punters swarming round jeered and
cheered in sections as the alterations affected their
pockets. Right through the number over the judge’s
box was never shifted ; all the bungling was caused by
other officials. Abundance has now gathered the two big
Australian St. Legers, as well as Victorian and N.S.W.
Derbies and other fat things.
* • • *
Crack jockey Barden’s luck on Saturday. He
really won A.J.C. St. Leger, on Great Scot, but didn’t
get it, and, later on, was thrown during a race and hurt;
and at night he just managed to thwart a more than
ordinarily daring burglar in an attempt upon his house.
• • * *
Rand wick hasn’t known a more finished lepper
than Steelrail, who won A.J.C. Hurdles last Saturday.
He “flew” his jumps with remarkable power and
accuracy, and completely outjumped everything else in
the race.
* • * *
Feature of A.J.C. Autumn meet’s first day was
the number of accidents which occurred, and all in flat
races—the Hurdles’ 10 runners got round without trouble
of any sort. Nearing 6fur. post in Doncaster, Purser
stumbled and interfered with Argentum and Gratia, and
then Acrasia was brought down. Jockey Smith escaped
scathless, but it’s doubtful whether Acrasia will ever race
again. Five of the Highweight Handicap starters came
to grief. Eulas fell ere the field got fairly going, and
brought Glengarry down. Rounding for home Glandore,
Whiting, and Barchester sprawled. Eulas’ rider (J.
Montgomery) suffered most; at moment of writing he is
in hospital with a fractured collarbone and concussion.
H. J. Gardiner, who had the mount on Whiting, has a
broken collarbone. Trouble is attributed to thick cloud
of dust raised, which almost completely obscured vision.
Falls occurred in back division.
*<• * • t
Twenty-one stripped for A.J.C. Doncaster
(lm.), Saturday, Debenture being only malcontent on
course. Betting was big and widespread. Atop of £7OOO
or more taken at card-call another heap of money came
for Sir Leonard before flag fall, bringing him from tens to
fours —first choice—and in face of the fact that his burden
was 9.10. Others particularly well supported were Rose
Petal, The Idler, Australia, and Marvel Loch. Rose
Petal, as usual, played up at the barrier. Pendant and
Ambulance raced together in front till the straight, when
Pendant “ chucked ” it. Ambulance stayed longer, but
not much, leaving the lead to Marvel Loch, with Ban
Oeontha and Rose Petal handy. Nearing Leger side
of lawn Rose Petal shot to the front and the race
was over. Ban Oeontha filled second place, with
Marvel Loch third. Closest of the others were Air
Motor, Ambulance, and Sir Leonard. Time, 1.411, evi-
dences race was truly run, but it has often been beaten.
Rose Petal is by Grand Flaneur from Rosecleer, by
Trenton from Rosedale (imp.) by Tynedale from Thrift,
by Stockwell, and is full sister to Beaulieu and half sister
to Rosebud and Rose of York. She first saw light at
Chippy Norton (N.S.W.), and, as a 2-year-old, won S.T.C.
Nursery Hep. and Flying Stakes at Warwick Farm, then
S.T.O.’s Challenge Stakes Jan. 1 present year. Messrs.
J. and J. M‘Master (Liverpool Plains, N.S.W.) own the
niare, and have leased her to Warwick Farm trainer T.
Brown.
• * • •
A.J.C. Autumn Stakes (Saturday), was a
complete boil over. Cyanide lined up first favorite (2 to
1) with Chantress next—a point longer. Australian was
the one other backed for money, but of this trio only
Chantress figured in the finish. Patronage—not fancied
at all by stable, and about whom plenty tens and fifteens
(now and again) were available—won comfortably, with
The Victory (as big an outsider), going great guns,
second, and Chantress third. Australian made the pace
torrid till the home turn, when he fell back, done. Time
(2.37 J) is exceptionally good for race.^
A.J.C. Champagne Stakes (Monday) gave
punters a heavy knock. F.J.A., Emir and Duke of Graf-
ton carried barrels of money, while lots went on Athena
as a probability. Emir was left at the post and lost
lengths in consequence, while stable-chum F.J.A.
dropped back a long last early. Duke of Grafton showed
well for a time, but couldn’t pace it with rank outsider
Kilfera (20 to 1 against), who assumed the lead in the
straight and got home easily from Harvest Lad (another
unthought-of chance) second, and Emir third. Kilfera
and another (Bassini) from same stable started in 2yr. old
Maiden Stakes (moderate company compared with that
in Champagne Stakes). Then Kilfera was made warmest
of favorites, while plenty “tens” were going about
Bassini, yet he scooped easily and Kilfera could get no
neSfer than third. Bassini finished second last on Mon-
day. Field was the biggest for Champagne Stakes since
’94, and no bigger surprise than Kilfera has ever been
known in connection with that event.
• • * •
Until recently Sydney Cup winner—Street
Arab—was altogether unreliable, shaping worst when
most was expected of him. Last season, in 14 starts, he
only notched three wins. Three weeks ago Rosehill Han-
dicap fell to S.A., with Acrasia second, conceding the
winner 241 b., which makes it appear that at a difference
of only 71b. in their Cup weights Acrasia would have
given the money a great shaking. But her accident in
Doncaster Handicap on Saturday effectually shut out all
possibility of the brilliant little mare starting. Street
Arab belongs to up-country sport Mr. Busby (who races
as “J. Northern and is by Jewellery by Pirouette, by
Goldsbrough from The Drummer mare Saltarelle. Trainer
of Street Arab (Harry Rayner) hasn’t prepared a Sydney
Oup winner since Australian Peer scored 18 years ago.
* # • •
Cup day (Easter Monday) of A. JVC. meet saw
another record attendance—22,ooo. For big event
Patronage, through his Autumn Stakes display, was
heavily backed at card-reading previous Saturday night,
and, though 5 to 2 was best price obtainable on the
course, and lots of public money came for him, he started
9 to 4 against. It was a big betting race. Loads of
shekels were put on Great Scot and Bewitcher, while
The Victory (certainly asked too stiff a question), Street
Arab, Ban Geontha, and one or two others found solid
support. Great Scot and Sir Leonard made the pace a
cracker from the jump, and remained in front over lm.
3fur., then first named had it to himself a while, and
most of the field were already spread-eagled. Simile,
who dislodged his rider early, now showed the way. Then
Street Arab began to make things warm with Patronage,
old Fairy Prince and maiden Bewitcher handy under
pressure. Once in the straight Street Arab (a 14 to 1
chance) got Great Scot’s measure and, piloted by rider-
less Simile, won—three lengths to the good from Patron-
age, with Bewitcher third and Great Scot fourth, far
behind the placed nags. Patronage’s success would have
brought a double of £6OOO to owner T. Brown over and
above other bets. Time (3.31 J) was fast, all things con-
sidered, particularly the heavy nature of the going.
Wakeful’s 3.28 (last year) is the record for the race.
• * * •
Winner (Kilfera) of A.J.O. Champagne Stakes
belongs to bookmaker Noakes, who did his brother Ikeys
a big turn in the connection. The colt is unquestionably
a thorough good one on Monday’s performance alone, and
was bred by Mr. G. Osborne, at Foxlow, and got by
imported Orzil from Kettledrum.
One-time winner (Cardigan) of “Oxboro”
Grand Handicap (in the good old days), A.J.O. Metrop.,
S.T.C. Anniversary Handicap, and other choice turf
things, died recently in M.L.
Ribbon wood —vanquisher of Fritz in big M.L.
trotting match Saturday—had something the better of
his opponent in being a pacer; he is a beautiful black
stallion, little bigger than a pony. Said that Ribbon-
wood was reared on cow’s milk and was a pet from birth—
youngsters used to harness him to a sledge-like con-
trivance, and he’d patiently pull them anywhere. Subse-
quent to the match an offer of £l5OO failed to tempt the
nag’s owner, who purposes bringing him over this side
shortly.
• • * *
Onkaparinga (S.A.) R.C. annual meet Monday
attracted 15,000. Fairy States was favourite for the Oup,
but plenty backing came for Avalon, Adelaide, Rapid,
Pilgrim and St. Florin, and latter won pulling up. Big
steeple proved a soft thing for little-fancied Drummer
(10.8), who, while t’other Victorian nags were backed
more or less heavily, was almost completely overlooked.
Race belonged to him right through last 0 fur. Shillinski
(second), with 13.8 up, showed a great race, and the
crowd applauded the fact when he returned to weigh.
Tote registered £21,228 during day—£llB9 short of last
year’s figures. Announced that in 1905 Onkaparinga
Great Eastern Steeple will be worth £2200 —£200 of
which is for the winner’s breeder. Maximum load is
fixed at 13st. in future.
* * • *
The development of Onkaparinga (S.A.) has
been remarkable. It started as a small country picnic,
patronised mostly by German hill-farmers and gardeners.
Little by little Adelaide people, who are wretchedly pro-
vided with picnicking places, nosed out the meeting,
which gave one of the pleasantest hill-drives possible to
them with something to do while the horses spelled.
Alfred Von Doussa, who is still secretary, ran it from the
jump, 28 years ago, and a couple of years since was
rewarded by a grateful district with a place in the State
Legislative Council. The club still holds only one meet-
ing a year, and that a one-day fixture ; but no extra-
metropolitan club in the hemisphere offers anything like
its prize-money, and it keeps on moving. Already it has
knocked out every other Easter fixture in the Holy Oity.
• • • *
Tragically sudden death of Y.R.C. handicapper,
F. F. Dakin (cetat 59), at Sydney, Saturday night, created
a, sensation. Heart trouble, from which he had long
suffered, was the cause. Mr. Dakin and his brother
brought famous nag, The Marquis, to Australia in ’81;
then deceased was with Hon. W. Pearson as trainer, and
prepared his Commotion and others for the big things
they won; he was at one time a turf scribe on Melb.
Ask; and, later, editor of “ Australian Stud Book.” Mr.
Dakin’s occupancy of the position of allotter of starts
extended over 10 years. Brother (W. E.) is W.A. T.O’s
handicapper. m , m
Recently announced death of Dr. Bowker, in
Sydney, recalls that he was among the oldest and best
respected sports on this continent. Whilom prominent
racing nags —Maid of the Lake, Lord of the Lake, Black
Swan and Sir Solomon were his. Sir Solomon topped
them all, his list of successes was a lengthy one. Dr.
Bowker kept a stud of mares at Bona Vista on the Pater-
son, and went in some for breeding.
• • • *
A record surely. Mr. P. H. Morton owned all
the winners (7) of first prizes (which included two cham-
pionships) in blood horse section of N.S.W. Royal Agri-
cultural Society’s Show.
• * * *
Mr. Geo. W. Moore, killed through falling off
a balcony at Cobar (N.S.W.) recently, was an amateur
rider of note once ; up on Narcisse he won Melb. Hunt
Club 33 years ago.
« • , •
First of Melbourne Cup winner Gaulus’ get to
figure as a winner did so among the “unregistered” at
Kensington (Sydney) last week, when 3-year-old gelding
Specimen squelched eight others in Novice Handicap.
Specimen is out of Quartz, and consequently half-brother
to Lizzie, Mica, Mundic and co.—all thorough good ’uns
in their time.
* • * *
The last shall be first. Four nags—Mulga 11,
Nutpath, Kelp and Treacle raced at Redbank (Vic.) the
other day. Kelp passed the judge first, but he and Nut-
path were disqualified for running inside the post, and
Treacle was similarly dealt with as the result of a protest
that he previously raced on an unregistered course.
Mulga, who pulled up behind them all, got the coin.
Something in the nature of a donkey race result.
• * * *
The newest Yankee insurance idea is “ The
Steeplechase Insurance Co.”—of New York, of course.
You have put £2O on the sure thing at, say, 10 to 1. But
the sure thing falls, and the other crack wins. It is
against this fall that the co. covers you. It doesn’t assure
a win ; it only assures you a run through for your money.
Premiums are various, according to the weather and the
character of the course and the nag. To cover your £2OO
abovementioned the average figure is about £5.
* * * •
S.A.’s sensational beating of the Englishmen at
cricket has prevented that State from leaving off with an
absolutely blank season. Its power to win just one match
every year is really remarkable. Losing regularly to
N.S.W. from 1895 to 1898, it always got home once against
Victoria. Since November, 1897, it has lost every game
with Victoria; but then it put in a useful beating of
N.S.W. just once every season for four seasons! Last year
and this, every inter-State engagement was lost, but Mac-
laren’s team and Warner’s went down (quite unexpectedly
in each case) to keep the record from being spoiled.
* • • •
The Maoriland native is a queer stick. Not
long since Rotorua (M.L.) possessed an excellent native
football club, but, chiefly owing to elder players becoming
more “ civilised,” and understanding the meaning of a
broken head or a smashed arm or a dislocated knee, the
club is threatened with annihilation. By the way,
Warbrick, the captain of the native team which visited
England in ’BB-’B9, escorted the recent English cricket
team over the Hot Springs and other places of interest.
Veteran cricketer Charlie Bannerman came
home to Sydney to winter, after six months as coach to
Christ College, in the City of the Plains, M.L. He says
Seddon’s land is full of promising cricketing material,
but lacks moulding and opportunity against first-class
players.
» * • •
“Polestan ” : Apropos of curious cricket umpire
decisions. Was watching a game one day and saw a
batsman make a fine hit. The ball flew straight as a die
to the fielder who threw up his hands to catch it. It
struck one of his paws, glanced up about 6ft. into the air,
and was caught and held on the descent. The umpire
gave it out, and the umpire and the batsman haven’t done
arguing about it yet. The latter claimed that as the ball
had struck an obstacle, the fielder’s great carpet-bag-
like hand, and then continued in motion before being
ultimately held, he was not out. The umpire said that as
long as the ball hit the fielder before being caught or
touching the ground or any other body he was out.
* * • »
Major Taylor, on “ oronk ” handicap bike-riding
in which the riders arranged the races and pooled the
prizes, in Australia: “Ges! they’ve reduced it to a
science. I guess they can give our boys miles." There’s a
deal of truth in that screech ; and it was demonstrated
at Sydney big cycle-meeting recently. Every heat
supplied a red-hot favorite—and, nine times out of ten,
the “ backed ” one got home all right.
• * • •
The sorrows of Bobby Walne : He flashed like a
meteor into sudden brilliance in the Australian cycling
firmanent. Handicaps, scratch events, and champion-
ships galore fell to him till he was king of the Austral
track. Last season his form departed from him. Then on
his return from America he showed signs of recovering it,
but accidents followed one another with cruel and
monotonous regularity. Now he lies in Adelaide with an
injured knee-cap, which will probably end his racing
career. The “ Racing Men’s Benefit Association ” should
treat Bobby generously, and the various leagues should
work up a big benefit meeting on his behalf, as Bobby
deserves well of the public and the sport. Australia has
known no straighter goer.
* * • •
S.A. Cyclists’ carnival, ended last week, was
the most successful yet held in the Wheat State, pro-
bably owing to the presence of Major Taylor, and a profit
of £5OO was cleared. The holy jigger got away with
everything available, in spite of tremendous handicaps,
and he cleared nearly £2OO in excess of the £l5O appear-
ance money. Aunger reduced the S.A. five mile track
record of 8.56, set up by Martin, to 8.45 3-5. Taylor’s
onslaught on the world’s half-mile (42 2-5) was a failure ;
owing to the motor not being sufficiently fast, the black
took 44sec. to cover the distance, though previously, the
same morning, he had covered it in 42 1-5.
* * » »
The S.A. lawn tennis championships this year
have resulted in a profit of £5O, instead of the usual
small loss.
• * * *
The Cardinal, or Dr. O’Haran, or somebody,
has given permission to certain persons to trap the
pigeons which build nests on the heads of the stone
statues around St. Mary’s Cathedral. It doesn’t improve
the religious look of the place to see a blue fowl building
its nest on the rim of Joseph’s halo.
* * • *
The 23-year-old Austrian, Count de Neiva, who
has been in Australia about two months only, has made
somewhat of a splash among the pigeon-murderers. Big
breaks have been ordinary things with him, and 39 out of
41 has been fairly common, but his latest performance
was to squelch the ex-champion “ Locksley,” with 46 out
of 50 fired at, at Sydney Gun Club’s meeting last
Thursday. Which is a matter for congratulation. A man
who calls himself “ Locksley ” for his prowess at killing
pigeons deserves to be beaten even by a Chinaman. Had
he taken to sheep shooting he would probably have called
himself Hercules.
• • • •
How is this for a bowls record, and does any Bul-
letin reader know of a parallel ? T. Walker, of Adelaide
Bowling Club, from scratch gathered the singles handi-
cap, giving limit man 16 in 31; he and his partner on
scratch then annexed the “ pairs,” and he captained the
winning four in the rink tourney ; and then the indivi-
dual supremacy of the State fell to him. His great club
rival, pressman Clarence Moody, who lives next door to
him and who learned the game at the same time, pushed
him closely. Moody was on scratch in the singles and
pairs and reached the semi-final stage of both as well as
that of the rink event —Walker putting him out for two.
In the championship match Moody (last year’s premier)
led Walker 17-15, securing 12 heads successfully, but only
notched 14 from them. Walker and Moody have figured
in 21 events of Adelaide clubs, and ’twixt them won 14.
Walker has been champion thrice and Moody once.
Shutting them both out as “ too warm ’’ is now suggested
by some Adelaide bowlers.
« • * •
At Sydney Gaiety Athletic Club, Saturday
night, a youth, minus coat and vest, and wearing on his
deeply-grained hide evidence of long abstention from
soap and water, sidled up to the press man, with the
honor of his victorious first heat still upon him. When
the man of ink had shifted round to windward, the youth
of bruise and blood spoke so : “Si, Mister, stick a good
worrud about me in your piper, will yer? I don’t get
much uv a show at this yer game, bli me if I do. I’m
yellin’ ‘ Wild rabbi’ ’ from 5 in the mornin’ till blanky
dark, an’ then I’m stretchin’ skins all ther bloomin’
night: so a bloke ain’t got much charnst uv gettin’ fit,
has he ? ”
* * • *
M.L. forefront turfite, Mr. G. G. Stead, has
gathered C.J.O. Champagne Stakes 10 consecutive years,
through Blue Fire, Mannlicher, Bombshell, Multiform,
Altair, Screw Gun, Formosan, Cruciform and Orloff.
Machine Gun or King Log should score for the same
owner this year.
* • * •
Monarch, who finished second in A. J.C. Steeple
on Monday, was bred by Mr. M’Donald, of Trunkey,
N.S.W., who parted with him for £25. Monarch won his
first ’chase at Rosehill last year, and up to now he has
appropriated seven like events.
• * » *
The Dunlop Tyre Co. have been induced to
extend the maximum bore and stroke of the
motors competing in the Dunlop motor cycle race, which
is to be held over the famous Warrnambool-Melbourne
(165 miles) course in August or September next. The
original intention of the Company wa3 to fix the limit of
the motors at 3in. bore and stroke, but as several of the
leading motor cycle manufacturers in France and England
are now fitting a slightly larger cylinder to their standard
roadster machines, the amending of the original limit has
been thought advisable. The maximum in either bore or
stroke now permitted will be 3Jin. —a limit which will
cover such well known motors as the “ Humber ” (3 h.p.)
M.M.C. (2f h.p.), the Paris-Vienna Werner (2f h.p.)
Intending competitors should also note that each motor
must be effectively silenced and braked. Full particulars
and conditions of the race will be available at an early
date.*
Sorting-Out the Immigrant.
When the other day the Six Hatters came to
Australia in bonds, and when Australia made
them wait in the lobby whileshe inquired into their
intentions and character, the autocrat of prettv
well every Tory dinner-table swore that there was
no other country in the world, sir, where such an
abominable state of things would be tolerated
And whenever there is a wild suggestion that the
immigration laws should be enforced to keep out
the undesirable—to keep out Jimmy Yoshima for
instance, from Japan, with his wife and female
cousin—the autocrat lays it down as a rule which
has no exception whatever that a country can’t
keep itself clean and become great at the same
time. Now, there is no country which opened
its doors wider than did the United States
m its younger days. It took the immigrant
no matter whence he came; took even the
negro by tens of thousands. But soon the
United States found that the policy was disas-
trous, and little by little it was altered. From
1882, when the drastic Exclusion Acts were aimed
at the Chinese, down to this day, the United
States Govt, has steadily strengthened its immi-
gration laws, until now they are far ahead of
anything of which Australia has even dreamed
Characteristically putting the matter on a strictly
business basis, the Government has, moreover
thrown upon others most of the expense of sorting
out the The law is that no contract
labor shall be admitted to the United States, nor
any person who is a pauper or likely to become a
public charge, and no one who is diseased. If the
Immigration Commissioners decide that a person
who has been brought to port is an undesirable
immigrant, or if within 12 months of landing he
becomes in any way a charge upon the country,
the shipping company which brought him must
take him away again. This is so serious a
matter that, for their own protection, the com-
panies have established numerous sorting-out
stations in Europe—in particular one on the
German frontier of Russia, and another at
Havre, in France. Yet the sorting - out
is not complete, even though every applicant pass
the depot surgeon, and the depot detective, and
is scrubbed and fumigated ; the Atlantic steam-
ship co’s. have still to take back something over
one out of every 100 of their passengers. There
are other provisions, now almost countless, but all
helping —such a provision as that one under
which, not so long ago, a prince was, to his great
horror, also kept waiting in the lobby because,
having lost an arm, and the other being appar-
ently not much good, it was doubtful whether he
could earn a living. The courts, also, which have
not always kept pace with the democratic progress
of the American people, have helped in this
matter, at any rate. Only last year, with the
Jap. looming larger than ever, it was decided at
Washington that no Japanese could become
a naturalised American citizen under any
conditions—neither he nor any alien of Asiatic
descent. Now if the- autocrat of almost
any Tory dinner-table hasn’t been talking
wild, loose, and utterly foolish talk, the United
States, with all this restrictive legislation, ought
to be suffering from a very severe blight; and at
least a dozen countries ought to be preparing to
wipe what is left of America off the face of the
earth. And yet, strange to say, there isn’t any
blight. Also, the more restrictive the laws are
made, the greater the demand for admission. In
1897, 216,397 people were admitted; every year
since then has shown an increase, until in 1901 the
total had grown to 487,918. The fact that thou-
sands are sent back makes no difference in the
demand. Nor could anything else be expected;
for who wants to go with the maimed and the
mad and the bound when, if he is good enough, he
can travel with the whole and the sane and the
free? So Australia is going to improve, not im-
peril, its future by looking well to the foundations
upon which it builds. If it is challenged for pre-
cedent, here it is. And if it wants encourage-
ment, here it is too.


A MILE IN 1.27 1-5.
Frank Beauchamp rode a mile behind pace on the Crioket Ground
track last Friday in 1.27 1-6, beating ALL PREVIOUS RECORDS.
It seems almost superfluous to say that this magnificent performance was put up on a
Open
Saturday
Afternoons
Massey-Harris Bicycle.—.
Beauchamp rode with the greatest ease, and finished strong and fresh.
If you are wanting a racing machine, this record ought to help your faith.
CANADA CYCLE & HOTOR CO., Ltd.,
Branchee In Every State. 357 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Drink
Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER
YOU GET THE BEST VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY
BUY A
WHEN YOU
REMINGTON
Double-Barrel . .
Hammerless Gun.
Thoroughly Guaranteed.
Kept n stock by the Largest Gun Stores in Melbourne and Sydney.
Remington Arms Company,
Head Office : 315 BROADWAY, NEW YORK, U.S A.
REMINGTON GUNS, £5 10s. to £ts
REMINGTON RIFLES, 23/6 post free
McLEAN BROS. & RICG, Ltd., 107 Elizabeth-St., Melbourne
RED BIRD BICYCLES
RED BIRD BICYCLES
i^-
NEW riODELS,
1903.
These New Models for Ladies and Gentlemen are worthy of your special attention. They are built
expressly for Australian roads, and carry our guarantee for Strength, Lightness and Comfort.
7ou would do well to call and see for yourselves, or write for a Catalogue.
GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King-st., Sydney.
A NIB,
A BOTTLE OF INK,
A SHEET OF PAPER and
A PEN CARBON BOOK
makes a complete outfit with
which any
MAN,
WOMAN OR
CHILD
can write a letter, and at the game
time make an exact copy without
leaving the slightest sign Of copy-
ing on the original.
yy.
/s.
%
It keeps a duplicate of bills you send out, of orders, receipts, bank checks. It leaves bo vague
uncertain mark, but a tracing that is often clearer than the original.
From its testimony there can be no appeal. It will save any house or family much money by its
indisputable record.
There is no man or woman, professional or not, who would not at some time or other find
THE PEN CARBON LETTER BOOK
■A. True and Valued Friend.
For fullest particulars, price, etc., write to the sole
Agents for Australasia j E» RICH & CO* LTD>| SYDNEY BRISBANE
m
HAND-IN-HAND
forEICHTYYEARS
Williams'
Barbers' Bar*
WILLIAMS* Traveller's Shaving Stick,
You may worry thru a face
scrape on most “Any Old
Soap.” To enjoy the Luxury
of a Perfect S lave you must
use Williams’.
Ifyoudoubt it, send a penny
stamp for Williams’ Changing
F“ce Puzzle. Tells you why.
.1-. 13. WILLIAMS CO., Glas-
tonbury, Conn., II.S. A. Also
23? Clarence Street. S dney.
1
Irrigation in Queensland
AND OTHER AUSTRALIAN STATES.
By PERCY C. SMITH, C.E.
5/-. POSTED 5/6-
WATSON, FERCUSON A CO-. BRISBANE.
AND ALL BOOKSELLERS.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout, Rhe u m ati sm, Sci atica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdestre & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman’S NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. <fc Is. 6d.
N.B. —Insist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdestre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
nOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
1 ONE COFFEE PALACE YO STAY AT in SYDNEY,
hat is “Ellis’ King: Street Coffee Palace,”
tuated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
office. Proprietor—GEO. W. ELLIS.
SHARPSHOOTIN6
For Sport and War,
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARK I
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/- nett.;
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published,
IF you wish to get good work and value
you should purchase W.W. CREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to —
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
(Greener’s Representative).
By Sped*!
Appointment
G. H. SMITH and SON,
TROPICAL HELMET
with special air -space,
in white drill, <scc. and
in all colors in felt.
10/6 and 12/6
Eat and Cap Manufacturers
and Importers,
302 Ceorge-st. Sydney
Sombrero Soft Felt Hats,
All Shades and Sizes.
Boft Felt Homberg-s.
In all Sizes and Colors.
Straw Hats. Stetson Hats.
Polo Caps, Military and Naval
Caps, Li very Hats, Clerical Silk
Hats, Etc., Made to Order
You Wear
Boots or Shoes ?
Then
this
advt.
will
interest
You
THE DUNLOP
CUSHION HEEL
makes a wonderful
difterence in walking,
affording great comfort
by preserving the
cushion tread. It ab-
sorbs all jarring, and
will outlast two or-
dinary leather heels.
Made in all sizes, for
Ladies and Gents. In
ordering specify Size
No. of boots worn, or
send drawing of boot
heel. Instructions and
Nails for fitting packed
in box. Price, 2/- pair.
Posted, 2/4.
From all Storekeepers,
or direct from us.
%\,&
0
CUSHION HEEL
0 0 0
LIP*"
Cushion
Heels
Ensure easy o
comfortable
Walking.'
The Dunlop Pneumatic lyre Co of Air> Ltd Mdb.
Sydney Adelaide Perfti Snsbane• & Christchurch. N.Z
Full Addresses:—
150 Clarence Street, Sydney.
108 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
117 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
28 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
154 Barrack Street, Perth.
128 Lichfield Street, Christchurch, N.Z
All three members of the new Tasmanian
Parliamentary Labor party are members of
the Miners’ Association. Long, the Lyell
representative, has been head of the body in
Tasmania; lie was attending a conference of
Association delegates in Victoria when his work-
ing mates elected him to the House. Burns,
of Queenstown, is the miners’ local secretary.
Lamerton (Zeehan) is an older man, a more
practised speaker than either of the others (ha got
his training as a local preacher), and a good union
organiser. Burns, who will probably be found
doing most of the hard graft without a murmur,
comes from the Illawarra district of N.S. W.
Senior-Constable Wells, of Grafton, who
is retiring from the service after 40 years’ graft,
was one of three who, disguised as diggers, from
“information received,” arrested bushranger
Gardiner at Aphis Creek, 'on the Rockhampton-
Peak Downs-road, in 1804. The information was
supplied by an old gaolbird known as “Gentle-
man John,” who was on his way to Peak Downs
and happened to drop into the pub for a drink.
He was served by Gardiner, whom John knew
well. The leader of the capturing party after-
wards went to ’Frisco, and was seen by a Sydney
detective, who went there on duty, acting as pot-
man in Gardiner’s saloon.
After a lapse of a quarter of a century the
will of the late J. P. Raphael (“Joe” Raphael)
has become the subject of litigation. The testator
was an old-time Sydney alderman, and was in
business as a clothier in “the good times” in
Lower George-street. He accumulated much
city property, and had a penchant for having his
name or initials, with date, on the coping stones.
In a codicil to his will he directed that none of
his real estate should be sold until 30 years had
elapsed from the time of his death. This limit
would expire in Feb., 1909. The court decided
that Mr. Raphael’s codicil was bad. To obtain
this decision it took six counsel and nine attor-
neys—also much costs, which come out of the
estate.
Copy of letter written to Mick Simmons
by an admirer of Simmons’ “Bytqik Prawns”:
“ Nothing but Bytqik prawns will be used by us
in future. What the peculiar mixture is that you
soak the prawns in, we do not know, but it cer-
tainly has a most wonderful charm for black
bream; and, after using the ordinary plain
prawns, it is positively exciting to pull in the fish
now that we nave our lines baited with ‘ Bytqik ’
prawns.”*
When the overflow of eastern burglars
struck Adelaide, some primitive humorists of the
Holy City winked the other eye. For instance,
there were three houses in a row. The tenant of
the first house posted up conspicuously, “ Beware
of the Jabberwok,” and rested well content. The
occupant of the next nailed up, “ Look out for the
Polly wog.” Then they went to the theatre with
the fatuous smile of men who had done something
clever. When they returned, both their houses
had been cleaned out, and the notices about the
Jabberwok and the Polly wog had been taken
down and thrown into the ash-heap, and beer-
dregs poured over them. The third house had
been preserved from burglary by the violent lan-
guage of a b. dog.
It was cabled recently that 5000 immi-
grants, with about half a million cash, passed
through Montreal, between Sunday and Wednes-
day, on their way to the N.W. territories of
Canada. Strange how these benighted fools rush
to a land that has an iron-clad tariff all round it,
instead of coming to the Australian paradise with
its mild revenue tariff and a fair share of the
bracing air of free competition. If 5000 people
had ever passed through Sydney in four days on
their way to the back o’ Bourke in the time of
George Reid, how the Telegraph would have
yapped about the attractiveness of the Freetrade
paradise ! But when they go to highly-protected
Canada—well, it is merely a news item.
Garland's victory at Tamworth addsanother
to the members who represent minorities in
N.S.W. Assembly and who got in by splitting the
vote. Other minority M.’sL.A. are Storey (Bal-
main North), Chapman (Braidwood), MacKenzie
(Canterbury), Evans (Deniliquin), Hogue (Glebe),
Wright (Glen Innes), Barnes (Gundagai), Hurley
(Hartley), Davidson (Hastings-Macleay), Coleman
(Lismore), M‘Coy (Marrickville), Smith (New-
town-Camperdown), Hollis (Newtown-Erskine),
Fallick (Newtown-St. Peters), Newman (Orange),
Oakes (Paddington), Farnell (Ryde), Eden George
(Belrnore), Quinn (Bligh), Whiddon (Cook), Levy
(Fitzroy), Nelson (Flinders), Broughton (King),
Power (Lang), Dan O’Connor (Phillip), M‘Mahon
(Uralla-Walcha). Quirk (Warringah), Jessep
(Waverley), Sleath (Wilcannia), Burgess (Young).
The “ backbone of the country " has again
asserted itself in Victoria. Recently the people
of Carrum wanted a new road (cost £300) to the
railway-station, and offered to pay half the money
if the Government paid the other half. The
Government agreed and started the work, which,
seeing it had only the local residents’ verbal pro-
mise of £150, and not the cash, was a most unwise
thing—especially as the local resident always
proves himself a fraud and a liar when it comes to
paying up. When once the work was fairly
started, the people who had promised the £150
came along with a tired yawn, and said they
hadn’t raised a copper, and didn’t see their way
to do it. Then Thomas Bent, for once in his life,
used his gift of language in a good cause, and sent
the deputation back to have another look for the
money. But he won’t get it. The backbone of
the country never pays if it can crawl out.
All through the late electoral campaign
in Tasmania the Opposition papers persistently
published side by side the Victorian income-tax
rate and the new Tasmanian one imposed by the
Lewis Ministry, and pointed out that the Tas-
manian rate was in many cases twice the Vic-
torian one, and that this proved conclusively that
there was shocking extravagance and mismanage-
ment somewhere, else such a thing could not
C'.bly be necessary. And not one paper threw
the obvious reply that as Tasmania had
incurred seven times as much unproductive debt
per inhabitant as Victoria —seven times as much
debt, the interest on which had to be raised by
taxation —this was only the natural and inevit-
able coming home of the fowl to roost. Even
now, though a good deal has been said of late
about the huge dimensions of the public debt, no
one seems to seriously realise a little thing like
that.


THING
GOOD
1
m
W
%
%
wi
■/M
'■■>■
rU
V^7/?
77f£
HUMP!!
rrert
Do You Know This Fact ?
That the best Virginia Tobacco and the purest smoking paper obtainable is used in the manufacture of Guinea Gold Cigarettes.
That s the fact. If you study your health, it’s worth remembering.
BRITISH-AMERICAN TOBACCO CO., LTD, (OGDEN BRANCH), 45 York Street, Sydney.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION,
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
JOYFUL NEWS
For WEAK MEN.
/
w
y
For men whose bodies are racked with pain, and whose
minds are tortured by the realisation of the loss of
youthful vigor ; rnen whose physical force is being
destroyed by Rheumatism, Lumbago, Weak Back or
Kidneys, Nervousness, Liver, Bladder or Stomach
Troubles. Are you a man of this class? If so, you must know that
what has restored the joy of life to thousands of other men must be
a blessing to you. The Dr. Austin Electric Belt gives a soothing,
warm, strengthening and delightful current of Electricity into the
affected parts, thereby effecting a practical, certain and speedy cure.
We are so positive of the tremendous therapeutic properties of this
wonderful Belt that we will send it, with all attachments complete,
to any person writing us, and you can wear it for 90 days, and
PAY ONLY WHEN CURED.
irnirimw »'■■■■■——
SPECIAL NOTICE. —If you have a Belt which has failed, or
burns and blisters, or uses vinegar, I will allow you for it in exchange
for mine.
FREE DIAGNOSIS . —All advice, written or personal, is
Absolutely Free.
PULE BOOK. —Write for my beautifully illustrated Medical
Book, and letters from Cured Patients, sent sealed, Free. WRITE
TO-DAY.
The Dr. J. n. Austin Electric Co. ( De p*-
49 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
HERR RASSMUSSEN
will guarantee to cure Nervous Weak-
ness, Blood Diseases, Piles, Rheuma-
tism, Corpulency, Liver and Kidney
Troubles. Me will send his Book Free.
All correspondence will be held
confidential.
WEAK, NERVOUS MEN, WHY SUFFER
WHEN you can be quickly and permanently cured by taking Herr Rassmussen’s ALFALINE Vitalitv Pills which have cured so many
P^ 0R MEMO # WEAK SPINE. DESPONDENCY, 2d afl7hS roblSlLhoS of that S!
Live Ids skibed f „ R f sinuss ? l ? Wlll guarantee this remedy to cure every case, no matter of how long standing, and he will
communicate with himtithoLt deW ™ 5? ? atr ° na °S hIS reme dies FREE OP CHARGE, either in his offices or by post. So don’t despair, but
communicate with him without delay, no matter where you live. Treatment by Post a Speciality. Pamphlet sent Free.
ALFALINE PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d., posted.
Blood and Skin Diseases
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, Stone in the Bladder, and Blood
Impurities guaranteed to be removed and permanently cured by
ALF ALINE BLOOD PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d. posted.
Anaemic Women
P ?i s< ? ases - Pale -’ Life ? ess ’ a , nd otherwise affected, should at once communicate with HERR
xv AobMUbbEiN. His lifelong experience is at their service, and his
ALE ALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS will cure them. Boxes, 6s; Courses, 235. 6d.
LIVER and KIDNEY TROUBLES cured at once by the ALFALINE LIVER and KIDNEY PILLS, Boxes Is.
His RHEUMATIC P»-LS are World-Famed, and his PILE POWDERS never Fail ; 6s. per box each.
The ALFALINE REMEDIES can only beobtained from . .
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office
547 George St., Sydney,
AND HIS BRANCHES AS FOLLOW-
BRISBANE: 309 Queen St.
MELBOURNE = 150 Bourke St.
ADELAIDE: 15 Pulteney St.
N-Z. •• 91 Lumbton Quay, Wellington.
W.A., PERTH: 481 Hay St.
KALGOORUE : IXI Hannan St.
FEEMANTLE: 117 ffigh St-
BOULDEE CITY: Piesse St.
Defence Minister Forrest is making a very
foolish trouble by his attitude over the Westralian
Civil servants’ leave question? Fed. Commis-
sioner M‘Lachlan having definitely decided that
the said leave of six months in every six years (a
concession given by Forrest to the W.A. civil
servants when a large section of them were about
to be transferred to Federal control) should not
read retrospectively. Forrest waxes wrath, and
threatens to bring the ruling before the Cabinet,
with the intention of having it upset. As
M‘Lachlan was appointed (by Forrest among
others) for the sole purpose, under the guidance of
the law officers, of deciding such questions on
their merits, and quite independent of political
influence, the spectacle of Forrest now threatening
political interference, because the Commissioner is
honest enough to decide without considering
Forrest in the matter, is ridiculous.
One of Melbourne’s lately-fined fortune-
tellers made a few honest shillings by giving her
experiences and impressions to the local Herald.
She spent her last shilling, when starting, on an
attractive advertisement, yet she found herself, at
the end of six months, with £150 in the bank.
Her stock-in-trade was a walnut-stained face and
hands, a heathenish rig-out of Graeco-Egyptian
cut, and capacity to read character quickly. Her
fee was a humble “bob,” often voluntarily in-
creased. Clients were mostly women, of all ages,
many being regular customers. Most clients of
the stained prophet had one chief reason for being
so; that discovered, the rest was easy. With
women, this was almost always love ; consequently
her best source of profit was the girl with a lover,
or the woman who had married the wrong man
and had just met what she took to be the right
one, though he was probably quite as wrong as any
other. Nearly all preferred cards to palmistry.
Of the many women to whom this witch foretold
immediate widowhood, but two showed grief or
regret at the announcement. She saw life at its
very worst. “ A half-starved yet high-spirited
woman, with great black eyes and pinched, white
face,” used to come regularly to open her heart.
Her husband was engaged in a dangerous occupa-
tion, and drank nearly all he earned. She prayed
for his death as fervently as a shyndikit for a
concession. She was not impelled by a passion for
another man, but by a great and uncontrollable
desire to escape from the thraldom of her life.
She called one morning. “ He has just gone to
work; curse him ! I hope he’ll never come
back.” She got her wish. He was brought home
dead. “Another, a refined, delicate, self-possessed
woman, who hated her husband, and was hated
by him, would sometimes drop the mask of self-
possession in my presence, and the gusts of
passion and despair, in which she bared to me her
inmost soul, made me feel that my feeble existence,
with its ceaseless drivel and paltering with des-
tinies over a pack of cards, was a blot on the
universe.” The hope of marriage springs eternal
in the female breast. Women of 60 and over 70,
ugly and wrinkled, would come and ask wistfully’
“Any sign of my marriage?” Few of her male
clients bothered about love. Mostly they wanted
information about business, mining specs., and
Tatt.’s. Racing was a special item of investigation,
but jockeys seldom came. They knew that Ikey
Mo. was a truer prophet than all the fortune
tellers.


THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance
is solicited
Landowners in S.W. Victoria charge their
tenants 12s. 6d. an acre rent for land adjoining
railway stations; three miles back, the charge is
10s. The difference of 2s. fid. clearly belongs to
the State, and much more besides.
Martin’s Apiol and steel pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia. Not genuine
without the signature. Be sure you get Martin’s.
Sole proprietor, W. Martin, pharmaceutical
chemist, Southampton, England.*
“ Shadow ” writes :
Have a brother who works, in company with another
clerk, in a railway goods shed in a Western N.S.W. town.
They go to work at 7 a.m. and work till 6 p.m. (one hour
breakfast and lunch excepted) and back again from 7.30
p.m. till 10.30 p.m. every night (Saturday excepted).
Sunday hours are from 9.30 a m. till half an hour after
noon—72 hours a week. The glittering remuneration is
265. a week and two suits of uniform per annum.
THE
‘PLUM’
Pi
THE
‘PLUM’
p ENTLEMEN.—This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, r< \;
AT like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7a oit.
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Prick
/ Sing-1
"V Single
Razor in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, ll*.
Razor’, in Ivory Handle, 15a; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful ovse, 30*.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the World.
pg- please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
ROB ROY pens.
Hinks, Wells & Co. beg to draw attention to this new series of
turned up pointed and other pens, made of the same material, by
same tools by the same process and at the same works, as the we
known series of Waverley Pens, which Hinks, Wells & Co. have to
SO years and upwards (prior to September 1901), manufactured for
ana supplied to the proprietors thereof.
Sold by all
Stationers in 18
varieties in
6d., Is. & gross boxes.
WELLS Sc CO., Birmingham,
England.
THE DEAF HEAR.
_ _ . w „lout of the mass of failures has come a
Deaf persons need no longer despair. wux ot me “ “ . ,
genuine success Head noises can be cured and the deaf made to hear so
effectively that they wonder if they really were deaf. Particulars of a startling
discovery? based upon the science of Metallic Galvanic Electricity, that will
assist all persons suffering from deafness, fully described.
FREE.
Bv sending your name and address to THE L. R. VERNON CO., 60-64 Hunter-st Sydney, you
wdl receive a full description of this remarkable method, which wi enable you to restore your
hearing at a very SiSt expense. The Ascription is posted to you free, and you will be delighted to learn how
easily you can obtain relief. It will pa}' you to write to-da}. L) U
THE PIANOLA
*y
m
What
It
Means
To
You.
If you are the owner of a piano which is seldom or never used, little
benefit is derived from it by either you or your family. By the purchase
of a Pianola every member of your family can play the piano, although he
or she may never have played one note in their life.
The striking of the notes of the selection, in proper time and place, is
no concern of the player. This is correctly done by the Pianola.
The player’s only task is to decide how slow or how fast the notes shall
be played, or how loud or soft he wants them to sound.
Three little levers serve to impart the player’s wishes to the piano.
Should the selection not be familiar, a very simple set of markings is given
on the music-roll which unwinds in front of the player, directing the proper
movement of the levers.
If you will write us, asking for Catalogue B, we will mail you one
free, explaining more fully the Pianola.
The price of the Pianola is £6O prompt cash, or £65 on moderate
monthly payments.
HENRY M. BIRGE & CO.,
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
SYDNEY : 323 George St.
MELBOURNE: 185-187 Collins St.
£lO BICYCLES £lO
<?// \vC"
From the FACTORY to the RIDER.
THE “EARL” SPECIAL 1903 MODEL
Westwood Steel Rims and Dunlop Principle Tyres.
Complete with Lamp and Bell.
Freight prepaid to nearest seaport town outside N.S.W. Trainage prepaid to any town ii
N.S.W. Reduction of ]os. per machine where three ordered at once. Less J>l per machim
where six ordered at once.
J. F. McDERMOTT & CO., 30 Pitt-St., Sydney
Sole Factory Agents. Telephone 2671.
2*2
WITH GREENER BOLT AS DRAWN, THE “ WARATAH,”
60 -
WITHOUT GREENER BOLT, THE “ WONGA,"
50/-
BAR LOOKS.
Left Barrel Full Choke
Right Barrel Cylinder Bore.
For accurate and close shooting this gun cannoc oe surpassed, made of Best
Materials, and equal in finish and workmanship to guns of three times the
irice. Barrels are Browned Twist, carrying a high polish. BAR LOCKS, Treble
Bolt half-pistol hand. Hammers are well down out of the line of sight. Vulcanite
aeel-plate on best selected polished walnut stock. We will supply one or fifty of these guns to anybody. We
, ave only one price. Send your P. 0.0. with orders to —
CARRIAGE PAID.
T. TOMBLESON, Manager.
Sydney Small Arms Co.
57 P O. Chambers,
Pltt-st., Sydney.
’S
‘FRUIT
HEALTH GIVING
COOLING,
AND INVIGORATING.
REFRESHING,
SALT.’
SORE
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT (
FOR SORE AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL BYE TROUBLES.
NEVER FAILS.
Ask youp Chemist for the Little Book:
HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES
ii
CURED
The Microbe of Credit.
«< L.W.” writes about the time payment perm:
The time payment disease has eaten into the vitals of
the Australasians. First, the Governments started to
make the Australias civilised nations on time payment:
they were seized with a yearning for roads, bridges,
railways, gaols, and other luxuries of civilisation, and
instead of building them as they had the cash to pay for
them, or setting apart a portion of the public estate for
the Public Works departments to devote to the buildings
and appurtenances of civilisation, they got them direct
from the time payment nation-makers of London. They
were followed by the squatters who bought sheep-runs
and the jumbucks which were to flee across them, the
wool-sheds, machinery and everything else connected
with a thriving pastoral industry, on time payment. Now
the squatters are gone. The microbe has fallen on
fruitful ground, and the bacteria spread. People in
the towns and cities began to buy their houses
'on time payment and still do so; often they pay
off something and then lose all they have paid,
and the house too. From houses the devouring flood
of time-payment sharks rose to furniture, till, for
every article of furniture sold for cash in Sydney,
there are a dozen sold on t.p. ; and the t.p. fiend
is getting fat by selling the same furniture, slightly
renovated, several times. Of course, his books show that
he has lost on every individual transaction, and he holds
out his hands in horror and says : “ Mein Jerusalem, I
have sold 700 houses full of furniture and lost 25 per cent,
on every one of dems 1 ” He carefully conceals that he
has sold about 100 houses of furniture seven times. For
a long time the furniture trade represented the high-
water mark. Then some enterprising youth suggested to
a city firm that it would be good biz to sell “ clobber ” to
civil servants on time payment. The firm demurred and
he took his idea to the rivals next door. They decided it
would he inconsistent with their dignity to sell rags on
time-pa.vment, but they started that young man in busi-
ness as an agent and called him Blank and Co. Blank
advertised that he was prepared to supply clothing on
t.p., and when people called round they paid him ss. for
a£s order on the dignified firm aforementioned. Then
Blank and Co.’s collector called round for 20 weeks and
collected ss. on each occasion. There’s not a great deal
in the t.p. rag trade ; the suit that has been foreclosed
upon cannot be renovated and sold six or seven times
’ over. Now, everything, down to false teeth, is sold on
t.p., and nobody, but a casual faddist, dreams of paying
cash for anything. Writer knows people with really good
incomes who buy their clothes on that demoralising sys-
tem, and when they require anything, from a cricket set
to a piano and a pianola to play it, get it on time-payment.
The Bulletin, in its appeals to this nation to pay cash, is
a lonely voice crying in a desolate wilderness. It will
take at least four generations of hard poverty to get the
time-payment germ out of the national bUod.
♦ - ■
. Danton writes :
Despite the fact that the A.N.A. and the local Labor
party platforms have strongly worded “ planks ” against
“any further alienation of Crown lands,” there is not an
audible protest up to date against Lands Minister
Taverner’s wholesale unloading of the best of the re-
maining lands for the behoof of screamingly insistent
% ’Pootras. The proposals are not for leasing the lands for
' even indefinite periods with provision for periodical re-
valuations, but for sale in fee-simple on time-
payment extending up to 40 years without in-
terest. Seeing that the areas already on offer and
suggested, amount to hundreds of thousands of acres,
surely those of the platform-makers who are not on the
look-out for eligible lots themselves (if any) might start a
bit of an outcry for consistency’s sake against this con-
certed ’Pootra raid, more especially as Taverner has
announced his intention of departing from the time-
honored and safe principle of “ selection after survey,”
in defiance of Land Act regulations. There is not a
particle of justification for the continuance of the
fee-simple method of land settlement (except to minister
to the land-hunger of the avaricious). The perpetual
lease system, with provisions for revaluation, combines
security of tenure with justice to the community,
■ besides affording opportunities for the introduction of
equitable labor conditions into the leases. The very fact
that there is a loud outcry for compulsory resumption of
lands formerly unwisely sold outright by the short-
sighted pioneers of Victorian agrarian legislation should,
in any but a ’Pootra-pecked country, render impossible
any further irrevocable parting with the community’s
remaining birth-rights.
♦
Brisbane experience, like most other experience,
points to the early death of the semi-voluntary
system of hospital maintenance, and the substitu-
tion of a straight-out system of State support—
the system which has been so successfully prac-
tised in S. Aus., among other places. Notwith-
standing its increase in population, Brisbane’s
average ordinary contributions to its general hos-
pital have fallen from £lBOl per year in 1886-1892
to £1196 in 1893-1902, and Hospital Saturday col-
lections from £713 to £446. In a vain and in-
glorious struggle to make up this shortage, and
not to oblige the unfortunate sufferer to take his
broken leg or his fever back to his boarding-
house, there has been a vast increase in all the
wretched little dodges of the cadger; and even
then the Government has had to be approached,
pretty often by the back door, for enough
to pay the cook and the washing bill; and after-
wards, as little has been said about the special
Govt, grant as possible, lest somebody might
cut down his contribution from ss. to balf-a-crown.
Meantime, in the Brisbane case and most others,
though the State has now usually to pay about
four-fifths of the whole bill, the management is
mainly self-appointed. It isn’t, as a rule, any-
thing like the best managing body which can be
conceived, or which the local community could
supply, simply because many of the best and most
self-respecting people are not born cadgers and
decline to engage in this eternal chase after
elusive threepenny-bits. And apart from that,
there’s the sick man to consider —the sensitive
sick man who has heard (he is always hearing it)
that the institution is so hard-up that it must
close its doors presently, and who, if he accepts
treatment at all in such circumstances, only does
so with more than half an idea that he would be
happier and more welcome in gaol.
♦
In the trial of a breach-of-promise case before
Justice Pring, in Sydney last week, the jury,
after a few minutes’ retirement, returned, and this
happened:—
The foreman asked what was the lowest amount that
would carry costs.
His Honor : I cannot tell you that. You have nothing
to do with costs. You are not entitled to take that into
consideration at all.
The jury, after a further brief retirement, returned a
verdict for the plaintiff for £2O.
Mr. Mack applied to his Honor to certify to costs.
His Honor refused the application. It is mani-
fest here that the jury meant to give such a
verdict as would carry costs. Of course, the judge
may have been legally right in telling the
jurymen that they had nothing to do with
costs, but costs are generally more than the
verdict, and the natural sense of the
jury directs it to give some amount which
will be an amount independent of costs.
If it has nothing to do with costs, which are
often the biggest part of the case, then it has
very little to do with the case at all. Nearly
70 years ago, in the case of Whitfield v.
CasSell, a jury brought in “Damages one farth-
ing and each party to pay his own costs.” Chief
Justice Dowling lectured the jury, and declared
he could not take the verdict, but all the conces-
sion he got was a compromise.
From Parkes’s Empire, sometime in August,
1856: —
A public meeting of the “ friends of Sabbath Ob-
servance” was held yesterday, in St. James’s Infant
School-room, Oastlereagh-st. The principal object of the
meeting was understood to be the formation of a society
to promote the observance of the Lord’s Day. The
attendance was very large, the building being crowded to
excess. The audience comprised a large proportion of
ladies. The chair was taken by His Lordship the Bishop
of Sydney.
That was 47 years ago, and 47 years of denuncia-
tion of the Sabbath banana, and the ginger-beer,
and the boiled lolly have left things very much
where they were. The period represents a re-
spectable life-time, a generation; it is equal to
the whole term of imprisonment allegedly put in
by Jehoiachin, King of Judah, and 10 years
extra. All that time the sects have buzzed on the
premises of the Chief Secretary, and asked him to
take steps, and he has promised to take steps, and
then the deputation has taken its hat and left in
triumph. Sometimes the Chief Secretary did
take steps ; more often he took drink. Transient
moral cow-merchants like Brunkkr have risen on
the horizon and set again. “God-fearing Minis-
tries ” have come and gone. There have been
freat moral upheavals which ended in one greasy
talian being fined Is. and costs. And what is
there to show for it all ?


amusements.
PRINCESS'S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
EVERY EVENING,
Mr. George Musgrove’s New English Company In
Shakespeare’s Delightful Comedy,
A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM.
USUAL PRICES. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee Mr. Bland Holt
EVERY EVENING,
Bland Holt Dramatic Co. in the Great Sporting
Drama,
THE PRODIGAL DAUGHTER.
Prices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan's.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. Tallis. Treas., E. J. Tait.
EVERY EVENING,
Mr. Williamson’s Comic Opera Co. in
MA MIE ROSETTE,
With an Almost Entirely New Cast.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Allan’s.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
“ The Home of Laughter.”
Management of Willoughbv and Geach.
EVERY EVENING,
the Laughing Success of Three Continents,
MISTAKES WILL HAPPEN.
(By Special Arrangement with Mr. Charles Arnold).
There is Nothing Funnier than the Funniest.
THIS IS THE FUNNIEST.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Glen’s.
mHE GREATEST LIVING ENGLISH TENOR,
Mr. EDWARD LLOYD,
Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. Williamson and
Mr. George Musgrove,
TOWN HALL, MELBOURNE,
FRIDAY NIGHT, APRIL 17.
Prices—7s. 6d., 55., and 2s. 6d. Box Plan at Allan’s.
UfIRTH’S CIRCUS AND MENAGERIE.
■■ LOCATION—WIRTH’S GROUNDS, PRINCE’S
BRIDGE, MELBOURNE.
THE REIGNING SUCCESS.
Acknowledged by Press and Public to be the Greatest
Organisation ever got together in the colonies.
THE MYSTERIOUS BROTHERS HOWARD,
The Theme of Conversation. The Wonders of the Age.
THE WILD ANIMAL ACTS NEVER BEFORE
EQUALLED.
THE WHOLE SHOW A GIGANTIC TRIUMPH.
SATURDAY, APRIL 18,
COMPLETE CHANGE OF PROGRAMME.
GRAND ROMAN HIPPODROME and WILD WEST SHOW,
and Many Other Novelties.
Prices—4s., 35., 2s. and Is. Box Plan at Glen’s.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
G. L. Petersen, Agent. E. Erskine Scott, Representative.
Under Vice-Regal
Patronage
And by
Special Appointment
Mrs. William Green and Miss Green
Professors of Ballroom Dancing, Deportment, Graceful
Carriage, Etiquette and Calisthenlo Exercises.
The Latest Society Skirt Dances. Classes arranged for at
private residences. Colleges and Convents attended.
Classes in all suburbs. Prospectus—
“ Elloralle,” 100 Nicholson-st., Fitzroy.
Amusements.
he mutosoo pe. " ——
WONDERFUL LIVING PICTURES
now on view at
KING STREET ARCADE CORNEP
74 OXFORD STREET.
Real Life Portrayed with a Vividness and R-n,
,_ ulß^ ever Bef °re Witnessed. m
ADMISSION FREE.
Theatre royal, sy oiTi
" L * ssee •• - Mr. J. 0. WILLIAMSON '
Every Evening, at 7.45. Wed. and Sat. Afternoon at 9
Mr. J. 0. WILLIAMSON and Mr. GEO. MUSGROVF’R
GRAND COMBINATION PANTOMIME
entitled,
dick WHITTINGTOJ
A Great Cast. Magnificent Scenery.
Splendidly Mounted.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Prices a 8 Usua ,
DALACE THEATRE, BYDNEY
" Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON
Every Evening at 8 Wednesday Afternoon, at'?
the World-Famed Farcical Oomedv L
ARE YOU A. MASON?
Interpreted by Mr. Williamson’s NEW COMFnv *
COMPANY.
headed by the Famous English Comedian
MR. GEORGE CIODENS ’
Box Plan at Paling’s. P riceB a 8 Usua ,
QRITERIO N TH E A TRE, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of Mr. FRANK THORNTON
Representative Mr May
A * ent Mr. H. P. Lyons!
FRANK THORNTON COMEDY BEABON.
OUR HILARIOUS ATTRACTION,
CAUX-EY’S atj’nt
From Brazil where the nuts come from.
EVERYBODY’S FAVORITE PLAY,
THE QUEEN OF LAUGHMAKER3,
CHARLEY’S AUNT.
Box Plan at Elvy’s.
PRICES 55., 3s. 2s. and Is. Early doors (from 7to
7.30, Is. extra. Ordinary Doors, 7.30. Overture 8
Carriages, 10.30.-- Children under 7 not admitted. ’
TH E A TRE, S YDiTTy;
■“ Sole Lessee and Manager .. Mr. Wm. Anderson.
SPLENDID SUCCESS Achieved by
William Anderson’s Famous Dramatic Organisation
in the largest great Adelphi Success,
A Woman of Pleasure.
Prices—3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Box Plan open at Elvy’s Mus e
Warehouse, George Street.
OWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of Messrs. J. C. WILLIAMSON and
GEO. MUSGROVE.
TUESDAY, APRIIT2I.
THURSDAY, APRIL 23.
SATURDAY, APRIL 25.
MONDAY, APRIL 27.
ENGLAND’S GREATEST TENOR,
EDWARD LLOYD,
Assisted by a
COMPLETE CONCERT COMPANY,
including
MR. F. W. PETERKIN .. „ „ Basso.
MISS EMILY FOXCROFT „ .. Contralto.
MISS JEAN NEWMAN .. .. .. Soprano.
MISS MAY MUKLE ’Cellist.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Mr. HAROLD ASHTON, Manager.
riTZGER ALD BROS, 1
* HUGE MOVING CARAVAN.
THE GREAT SHOW ATTRACTION OF 1903.
LOCATION: BELMORE PARK.
THE NEW COMPANY. A SPLENDID SUCCESS,
RECORD ATTENDANCES NIGHTLY.
UNDENIABLE SUCCESS of Mademoiselle ONRA,
ERIC and REANO, THE MARRATOS, THE FLYING
METEORS, GILLENO (Musical Clown), MANZONI’S
DOGS, THE WHIMSICAL WALHALLAS, KATIE
MONTGOMERY and PACEL.
THE CYCLE WHIZZ-“ Circling the Cirque.”
A Splendid Band, led by Herr Von Der Mehden.
Open-air Free Concert at 7 p.m.
Popular Prices—4s., 35., 25., and Is.
MATINEES, SATURDAY and WEDNESDAYS.
Box Plan at Paling and Co.’s.
Leave all Trams at Hay-street. Ask the conductor for
the Circus, and he will direct you.
IVO L I THEATRE, SYDNEY^
Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
SATURDAY NIGHT.
NEW FIRST PART-LAWN TENNIS.
Splendid Success of SEELEY and WEST, RODDA PERRY
and H. C. BUCKLER. .
Pronounced Success of HILL and SYLVAINY.
Reappearance of BAM HOLDSWORTH.
S3T PRACTICALLY A NEW COMPANY. 131
fCKARDS’ NEW OPERA HOUSE,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mr. HARRY RICKARDS.
EVERY EVENING, at 8 p.m.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS at 2.30p.m.
Enthusiastic Reception of MISS CRACIE EMMETT.
Splendid Success of SEELEY and WEST, JOHN COLEMAN
SCHENK BROS., ERNEST FITTS, MISS RAY JONES,
and all members of Company. >
Prices —2s. 6d., 25., Is. ‘fill Plan at Allan’s.
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney
Sending, mention this paper.
r /c
£
>/
m
SSH&Zf
Mention
this
Paper.
■\7s7’©^K.
Men
Can obtain strength and vigor
by the use of DR. PIERCE S
ELECTRIC BELT." A Won-
derful Restorative. The most
Scientific Eleotrical Appliance
ever made. Drugs do not cure.
This Belt does. Send stamp (any sort)
for “Booklet No. i." I (CF Write to-day:
_ - , Pierce Electric Co., 206 Post St.
San Francisco,U.S. a., \V. H. Soul & Co-, Agfa Sydney
FREE
BY POST, A MEDICAL
TREATISE by that justly-
celebrated FRENCH HOS
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST,
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they mayUUKo
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLE,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A
CURE pure and simple for all who need Address
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.
SYIDISTEY-
Latest reports from Crowl Creek mine, Shuttle-
ton (N.8.W.), are most satisfactory. The sulphide lode at
the 270 ft. level has been driven on for over 70ft., and the
whole of the material broken averages 13 per cent, copper.
The width of the lode in the level has not yet been proved.
00. has let contracts for the manufacture of bricks for
four reverb, furnaces, which are to be erected as quickly
as possible. Referring to a Bulletin par (28/3/’O3), the
secretary of the co. writes to repudiate the implication
that there was any concealment of material facts in the
prospectus. He points out that it was distinctly stated
that the co. has to take over the undertakings and liabili-
ties of the syndicate, among which was the condition that
the purchase price, in cash, has to be paid out of the
proceeds of ore. The balance owing on this account
has been largely reduced since the formation
of the co., and it will soon be wiped out altogether. As
a set-off against the £14,000, the syndicate transferred to
the co. the large heap of seconds at grass—about 8000
tons of 10 per cent, ore—when co. was formed. Secretary
states that co. is now in a sound financial position, and
adds that there is ore enough in sight to keep the
smelters, which it is proposed to erect, working for
years. The explanation offered removes a serious mis-
apprehension which would not have arisen if the pro-
moters had made a full statement of the position in the
prospectus.
• • • •
“Sessil The Lionsville (N.S.W.) goldfield is
practically standing still. The population there is largely
existing by the methods known to most old Australian
miners—semi-starvation, stoutness of heart, and self-
reliance, and an occasional pennyweight. At Cangai,
same district, a good deal of copper mining is going on,
with fairly substantial prospects. If the late rains on
the lower Clarence have extended inland a number of
shows at the foot of the Tableland should benefit greatly.
Apropos, if a loop line be drawn from Glen Elgin (Glen
Innes district) round Cangai and Lionsville and back over
the Rocky River to Tenterfield, it would embrace a maze
of mountain, scrub, and creek, never systematically pro-
spected, and affording every indication of gold, silver,
tin, and copper wealth.
• * . * •
Kalgoorlie mining co’s are getting a lot of fun
and profit out of a spirited fight between three or four
explosives people, who are trying hard to strangle one
another. The "cut” has already got below £2per case
—less than half of what it was two or three years ago.
• • • *
Great Boulder, operating with diamond drill
from Block 280, reported to have struck Ivanhoe East
lode at a depth of 1300 ft. odd. Interesting to know
whether the lode lives beyond the cross-course at north
end of Ivanhoe, or whether the drill has gone through
that cross-course. It will make all the difference !
• • • *
“Shareholder I ”(Cardwell, Q.): Champion Prop.,
Kookynie (W.A.), owns three leases on same line of reef
as Cosmopolitan and Cumberland. Reef is very wide
where sunk on, but gradually tapers off in size and value,
going both north and south, the total length of the pay
chute being less than 100 ft. The main shaft is down
about 300 ft., and work has, so far, been confined to the
100 ft. and 200 ft. levels. Further sinking is suspended,
and likely to remain so, owing to the enormous flow of
water to be coped with, the natural huge supply of the
mine being greatly supplemented by thousands of gallons
daily of overflow water from the Cosmopolitan and
Cumberland soaking through. Co. bought the old 10-
head mill from the defunct Challenge Prop., and during
the last 12 months has treated about 600 tons monthly
for an average of 16dwts. The best yield averaged
18dwts.; but, during February, average had declined to
14dwts., both exclusive of tailings. Co. is in 130,000
shares, of which 95,000 are, or were, held by Hannan’s
Hidden Treasure, of which co. it is virtually a
reconstruction. Hannan’s Hidden Treasure, again, is
practically a rehash of the Gold Finance Co., which rose
on the ashes of that notorious wild cat, the Corsair Con-
sols. Co. is controlled by the Richard Hoffmann crowd,
which has been responsible for half-a-hundred wild
cats, most of which have suffered reconstruction or
extinction. Two have paid divs., White Feather Main
Reefs and Lady Loch. Nearly all shares controlled by
this group are unsaleable, except at merely nominal
prices. Mine’s reserves are now nearly exhausted, and
can’t be renewed except at enormous expense for electric
pumps, as happened with Cosmopolitan. Prospects of
any revival in this scrip are anything but rosy.
• * • •
Oroya-Brown Hill (W.A.) continues to open up
splendidly,' and there is apparently a very brilliant future
before the co. In the No. 9 level of Pomeroy shaft the
lode ranges up to 35ft. wide, and is worth soz. per ton.
The No. 7 level is nearly as good. Between the two levels
there is apparently a blank, or fault, going south, but
telluride ore has at last been found driving north
in No. 8 level. The lode appears to get much
more vertical in depth. In Stange shaft, which
is some distance east, a lode carrying good
values was met with at a depth of 480 ft., and is being
followed. In the Oroya South block seven levels have
been driven on the Australia East lode, and the large
reserves opened up by Capt. Parkes are being daily added
to. From this block 11,000 tons, taken out in develop-
ment, averaged 25dwt. at the Hannan’s Star mill. The
extra 10 head of stamps will shortly raise the output of
the co. to about 10,000 oz. monthly. * Unfortunately, the
management is very secretive, and it is a pity it has not
chairman Govett, of the Ivanhoe and L.V. Consols, to in-
sist on its co-operation with its neighbors. Owing to this
dog-in-the-manger policy the Associated and True Blue
West are groping in the dark with a diamond drill, at
great expense, for the Oroya-Brown Hill lode, while the
unfortunate Paringa, with the same object in view, is
cross-cutting east at the 1300 ft. level. Bewick, Moreing
and Co. could, if they chose, save enormous expense to
their neighbors by giving the necessary hints, but they
prefer secresy. Why ?
• • • j •
Brown Hill Extended (W.A.) on opening up
the rich dab between its 200 ft. and 300 ft. levels, is not
finding the ore quite so extensive and rich as anticipated,
and the high figures of the Feb. return are not likely to
be repeated. The mill may, however, continue crushing
for another month, or probably two, but hardly the six
months originally hoped for except on a lower scale. The
profits derived from treating this patch should keep co.
well in funds for further exploiting, but, as eight years of
prospecting, by mining and diamond drilling, has dis-
closed nothing very promising, the outlook cannot be
said to be at all satisfactory. The east lode down to the
600 ft. level is practically worthless, and, even at that
level, the pay ore only occurs in bunches. To make out-
look appear more hopeless, this eastern lode has also
proved valueless in the adjoining properties on north and
south. Co. will probably have to look out for a fresh
property before long, but a really good show is hard to
find, judging from recent experiences of Boulder Hamil-
ton and others.
* • • •
Paddington Consols (W.A.), is now being
thoroughly developed under the management of Mr.
Macfarlane. The 400 ft. level has been opened up for a
distance of nearly 300 ft. The lode.is very wide, running
up to as much as 18 or 20ft., and carries values of 12 to
15dwts. Part of the 40-head mill runs intermittently to
test the stone taken out during development work. The
main shaft is down 520 ft., and the opening up of the lode
at 500 ft. will shortly be in full swing. As the lode is so
wide and consistent in gold values, there should be no
difficulty in keeping the whole mill going regularly once
the 500 ft. level is properly opened up.
• • • ■ * *
Associated (W.A.) appears to have no luck in
endeavoring to| locate the continuation of the Oroya-
Brown Hill rich chute in its own ground. The second
bore hole from the 1050 ft. level of Judd’s shaft has found
nothing payable, and work has been temporarily
suspended. As Judd’s shaft is situated about 760 ft. in a
bee-line from the boundary, and neither bore has been
sunk that distance at an angle, it is quite evident that
someone has blundered, and that the drills were with-
drawn too soon. A bore is now being put down from the
700 ft. level of Tetley’s shaft to test the ground in the
vicinity. The output of the mine has been gradually
rising, and is likely to continue doing so, as improve-
ments in the treatment plant continue to be introduced.
Mr. Ledoux, who some time ago reported on the mine on
behalf of Continental shareholders, is again making an
exhaustive inspection.
* * • m
Tom Doyle, ex-Mayor of Kanowna (W.A,), has
cleaned up a> further parcel of 18 tons from his rich
leaders on the Red Hill, Kanowna, for the satisfactory
return of 1750 z. This brings up the total gold won by
him and his mate, Finney, in 15 months, to 24810 z.. worth
£9500. Tom has battled in Kanowna for a period of 10
years, and is now off to the Emerald Isle for a six months
spell. His fellow citizens and old mates rolled up in
large numbers to give him a suitable send-off, and his
popularity was fully attested by the extreme enthusiasm
displayed. The win of his horse at the recent Kanowna
races likewise evoked a wild hurroo. Many a poor battler
on the goldfields offers up a prayer for Tom Doyle, who
has stood by the poor and needy, when other alleged
friends have signally failed to toe the mark.
* * • •
The tributors on the Queen Margaret South
(W.A.) have had a great streak of luck. After one
month’s graft they came across a pocket, which yielded
them the handsome return of 300 oz. at one go. This
will probably be the precursor of further finds. Ever
since its discovery the Bulong district has been famous
for its rich pockets, which will repay the battling
fossickers, but are of little good to highly capitalised cos.
* * » #
Queensland’s gold return for March was 55,6860 z.
fine, or 11,5820 z. better than for March, 1902; in value
£236,548 against £187,358. For Jan.-March quarter :
gold, £630,439 (an increase of £89,196); divs., £213,796
(£53,511 more). For the month Gympie pulled up
wonderfully: gold, 15,8040 z. crude; divs., £30,200.
Towers’ figures were 32,7880 z. and £45,100 dividends.
* * • *
Charters Towers returns for the first quarter of
the. year are : Mills, 60,3990 z.; cyanide, 32,7460 z
against 48,9150 z. and 34,4510 z. for the first three months
of 1902. Divs. paid for the quarter, £98,910, as against
£81,516 in 1902. _ Calls made, £32,709, as against £11,436
for a similar period last year. The quarter’s div. total is
£16,000 higher than the best previous record since the
opening of the field. Calls are very heavy at present,
but with a stagnant share market they will decrease ;
many of the boom pups will die of starvation, and
Charters Towers will be none the worse for their extinc-
tion.
• • • •
Gympie’s record for the January-March quarter
is remarkable:—
Stone, Gold, Calls, Divs.
tons. oz. £ £
January .. 7,646 6,368 6622 6,400
February .. 14,172 13,768 6498 18,000
March .. 14,626 15,468 4687 30,200
It shows an improvement in every respect every month.
Individual returns : No. 2 South Great Eastern, 93240 z.,
£14,400 ; Scottish, 86860 z., £8250 ; S. Glanmire, 51540 z.,
£13,500; No. 4 N. Phoenix, 36030 z., £lO,OOO. The most
important development of the period was the East
Oriental’s trial crushing from the field’s deepest ground ;
102 tons gave 3340 z.
• » • •
There is much excitement in Queensland over
an alleged discovery of telluride ore of enormous value
somewhere in the Gladstone district. Information as to
the whereabouts of the bonanza appears to be somewhat
hazy, but two financial syndicates, one in Gympie and
the other in Rockhampton, have started parties to locate
and peg the marvel with the wildest celerity possible.
The opposition pegging parties will probably meet in the
vicinity of Cania, and matters should then become in-
teresting. So far, the Gladstone district has been re-
sponsible for mostly small and patchy reefs, but the rich-
ness of some of them in places would indicate a fair
chance of something large being discovered some day.
At any rate, Gladstone is considerably nearer and easier
to get away from than the far-off Arltunga, and up to
date, the district has furnished considerably stronger
proofs of value.
• * » •
Ebagoolah (N.Q.) mining field at latest was in
a bad state. Influenza and fever were prevalent, and
there is no doctor or chemist on the field. Likewise, no
school, church, or telegraph office—not that the lack of
the ohurch is much noticed.
• • » •
“Let knowledge grow* from more to more.”
Gasoline furnaces defy competition. Plumbago and all
crucibles, assayers’ outfits are supplied by Ernest de
Beer, Bourke-street, Melb.*
* * * •
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* » * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, of Melbourne, reports
that there has been a great improvement in the general
outlook of the engineering business since the new year
started, and that his pipe making works in Melbourne
and Perth are working full-handed. Amongst the orders
now being executed at Footscray works is one for 7 miles
10 chains of 18in. diameter light steel spiral-riveted pipes
for the Victorian water supply; and at Perth works a
contract is in progress for over 6 miles of lOJin. diameter
spiral-riveted pipes, flanged joints, for the Greenbushes
Tin-Mining Syndicate.' About two miles of these pipes
are to stand a test pressure of 8001 b. to the square inch.*
* • • •
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-si., Melbourne,
having returned from England, is now prepared to
purchase paying mines, and mining properties (not
merely surface shows), situated in any part of
Australasia requiring further capital for development and
machinery. Only genuine and legitimate ventures,
capable of bearing the strictest examinations will be
entertained.*
« • • •
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develop, with option of
purchase “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address : “ Option,”
Melbourne *
• » • •
H. Brandon Skertcbly, geologist, mining engi-
neer and assayer, is prepared to furnish scientific reports
and plans to British and Australian investors. Assays
undertaken, and enquiries re mining properties, promptly
attended to. For fuller information apply to H. Brandon
Skertchly, 7 Central Chambers, Queen-st., Brisbane.*
• • * •
The Wilfley Table represents a very important
improvement in the type of machinery used for concen-
trating coarse sands, fine ore and slimes. It covers the
field of all other concentrating tables and handles the
finest slimes or coarsest sands with excellent results. It
also enters the field which was formerly occupied by jigs
exclusively as it successfully handles one as coarse as 8
mesh. It is enabled to handle this wide range of material
through its logical combination of the features of the
various machines. The action of the jig is preserved
through the upward and downward currents of water
flowing across the riffles. The stratification of the ore as
on shaking tables or percussion tables is also preserved
by the motion on the table. The features of the side
wash tables are also incorporated and the mineral is pro-
tected from being washed into the waste launder by the
riffles. The great capacity of the riffled surface belt
tables is also preserved through the use of these riffles,
while the close clean work of the smooth surface belt
table and of the buddle is preserved by the unriffled
portion of the table. The preservations of these good
features and their continuation in one machine in a form
to be readily controlled is the reason the Wilfley Table
has been so successful in its work of solving the problem
of the commercial handling of low grade ores. Illustrated
catalogues with valuable notes on ore dressing can be
obtained from the Sole Manufacturers in Australia, The
Austral Otis Company, South Melbourne.*
* * * *
It is not generally known that in the treatment
of ore as much ot the valuable minerals is often lost in
the tailings as is saved by the appliances. This is due
in most instances to the inefficient machines used and
the difficulty in saving the fines and slimes. The best
machine to treat the latter classes are Luhrig Vanners.
These machines are in successful daily use in the principal
gold, galena, copper and tin mines, in Australia and
Tasmania, proving their superiority over other so-called
slime machines. Messrs W. & J. Lempriere, 506 Little
Collins-street, Melbourne, are the general agents, and full
particulars can be obtained from them.*
• * • *
Insurance Agents News, August, 1902,
writes “We congratulate the Directors of the Colonial
Mutual upon the highly gratifying results of last year’s
operation, especially as these results have been achieved
during a period of exceptional depression and diffi-
culty.”*
•-• « •
Latest variant of the returned cohentingenter
comes from North Queensland, where an alleged R.
Cohen looted a fellow lodger’s bag, on the ground that
he had lost an alleged sum of £4O, allegedly brought
from S’Africa, and that his admiring country had to make
the money up to him somehow.
There is discussion just now in Queensland on
miners’ phthisis, which is on the increase, and the
Government has promised to do something; but hasn’t
yet done it. Foul air and dust are the causes. The deep
reef workings of North Queensland are notoriously hot
and ill-ventilated, and, owing to the use of machine
drills, the dust nuisance grows worse. Men in stopes,
rises, crosscuts or levels at a distance from the main air-
courses come out of the dust-laden, hot air into the main
air-courses, where the air current is often of an icy tem-
perature, and the chill sustained aggravates the phthisis.
• • ■ •
Melb. Argus remarks that geologist Brown’s
report on the Winnecke Depot field “ bears out his repu-
tation for fearlessness, and it is a fine thing for the public
service of S.A. that it should have a man of such integrity
to handle so delicate a mission.” What a sweet reflec-
tion on the character of the mining world and the probity
of such public servants as come within its sphere of
bribery and corruption ! Mr. Brown, the paid servant
of the State, was sent to Winnecke to report the truth as
it appeared to him, and because he spoke the truth and
“ narked ” the boomsters, his fearlessness is reckoned a
matter for special public rejoicing, rather than a mere
matter of course.
* » a ■
Reported that the directors of the Burra Burra
Copper Mining 00. (S.A.) will shortly grant permission
to between 200 and 300 men to work the mine on tribute.
The royalty on ore taken from the mines at present is ss.
in the £, but this is likely to be reduced to 2s. 6d. This
is an exorbitant royalty. It means one-eighth of the
gross product for the idler who “ sits down ” and watches
the toiler, and the toiler has to take the chance that the
other seven-eighths won’t cover working costs.
• • • »
North Mt. Farrell (Tas.) is now threatening to
start dividends “before the end of the year,” and the
shares have risen to 6s. 6d. buyers. The enthusiasm of
the Farrellites received a series of dampers some time
back, but, in a sobered way, they are talking as large as
ever.
The Master Tailors’ Association of New
South Wales wishes to state that the evidence given
in the Arbitration Court, as to sweating conditions
in the tailoring trade, “did not refer to any
member of the association.”
Three head-lines from the latest issue of
Sydney Sunday Times :
DON’T NEED ARBITRATION COURTS.
SERIOUS SPANISH RIOTS—CITIZENS KILLED.
ARTILLERY FIRE ON STRIKERS.
The kitchen-wenches’ organ evidently thinks that
arbitration is quite unnecessary while artillery is
available. But artillery fires rather wildly some-
times, and occasionally a misdirected ball hits a
newspaper office where just such an editor is sit-
ting and writing just such slush as the first head-
line quoted above. Then that paper changes its
alleged mind suddenly.
The British public must regard Australia
as a land absolutely dead-broke —if clerical evi-
dence is reliable. Bishop Webber is in England
on a cadging tour for Queensland, Bishop Stone-
Wigg is doing the mendicant on behalf of New
Guinea, and now Bishop Frodsham lifts up his
voice in public and announces that if he can’t
collect enough cash here to repair church damage
in Townsville, he also will depart to beg in
Britain. Australia’s chief export begging
bishops.


r
5
In the great race of Life your desires are to be with the victors, not the vanquished. You desire to win its victories, reap its
rewards, secure its triumphs. You must, in order to attain intellectual and commercial eminence, be strong and perfect physically ; your
mental and physical temperaments must be in accord with each other.
Men and Women, Remember This Facts
If you are truly healthy you will be truly happy. If you are ill and for years have suffered, here is a sure cure waiting for
you. The new ELECTRO-MEDICAL treatment, or the judicious use of Electricity and Medicine, will effect permanent beneficial
results. A curative electric current is diffused into the weak nerve-centres by means of a genuine Electric “ INVIGORATOR,” of
which Mr. Philip Newbury, tbe popular tenor, Signor Carlo Dani (Royal Italian Opera Company), and Mr. Joseph Megson, Champion
Cyclist, New South Wales, speak in unstinted praise. Mr. Ames, whose testimony appears below, is also an attestant. Its influence
upon his nerves was marvellous.
MR. PHILIP
NEWBURY
says—
“ I have worn one
of your famous
nerve - restoring
E'ectric l< IN-
VI G O R A -
TORS,” and it
has benefited me
to a great degree.
For some years I
stiff ;red from Uric
Acid in the Blood,
causing rheumatic
tendencies, but
thanks to the won-
derful efifiiacy of
your Electric
“ INVIGORA-
TOR t ” lam now
completely cured. ”
(Signed) Philip
.Newbury.
iT ;
•/
»
■
ifi»K
or
1
r.
//
■'
MR. PETE
HUGHES,
the well - known
theatrical advance
agent of Mr. J. C.
Williamson, at-
tests :
“ Your Electro-
Medical treatment
has removed all
the pains in the
kidneys, from
which I suffered
for years. Your
‘Electric Belt’ has
done more for me
than I ever ex-
pected, I can re-
commend it to all
sufterers from kid-
ney and sciatic
complaints.”
(Signed)
Pete Hughes
The New “TOD S LOAN ” American style of tiding was introduced into Australia by Mr. Edward H. Am2s, the famous American jockey.
He llfenlrrthe a n n ew t m S et e hod g of th MUSCULAR AND NERVE RESTORATION practised by you in ELECTRO-MEDICAL treatment.
Por come months my nerves were out of tone. I consulted you. I wore one of your first-class Electric INVIGORATORS
Tni took "courseof your medicines. 1 SOON REGAINED MV USUAL NERVE POWER, by which I was successful
in winning TWO GREAT RACING EVENTS in ONE DAV.” (Signed) RD s
The wonderful IN VIGO RATORS ” are superior to any “BELT” offered to the Australian public. The SPECIALISTS of the FREEMAN and
WALLACE INSTITUTE will.give, £IQQ jq any CHARITABLE INSTITUTION
if || ? ' ll( . „ vove a this instrument is not as perfectly Electrical as it is claimed to be. It is not to be confounded or associated with any old-time Electric
‘ BELT” which may be sold at £3, £6, or £lO. ONE POUN.- ONLY Id THE PRICE. a . „ ,
Th £lO “ INVIG IRATOR” contains 2oz of 18ct gold. Remember this when purchasing a “BELT.” It possesses true non-conducting Vulcanite
Insulation 6 without which all electricians declare a CONTINUOUS ELECTRIC CURRENT cannot be given, as is necessary for medical purposes,
and without which all Electric “Belts” are absolutely useless in medical practice.
NOTHING WRECKS A MAN'S LIFE
. , . ,1- < TNT VTOOR ATOR ” arrests at once the LOSS OF VITAL POWER, which degenerates and injures the system. Such
iVsOM 111' EPILEPSY;RHEUMATISM, INDIGESTION, DYSPEPSIA cCIATICA, ST. VITUS' DANCE NERVOUSNESS, HEART
TROUBLE HYSTE HI A, or LUMBAGO are immediately relieved by it when worn nightly for a few hours conjunct.vely with sound medical treatment.
The above testimony is blit one of those from many eminent patients.
THE SPECIALISTS’ FEES—ADVICE 4^MEDICINE, ONE POUND ONLY.
THE MEDICAL BOARDS
OF
NEW SOUTH WALES,
VICTORIA,
•SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
ENGLAND
and AMERICA
prove registration of the Physician-
in Chief.
Sir Dominic Corrigan, Bart., Phy-
sician to the late Queen, says of him :
—“I entertain a high opinion of Dr.
Wallace in regard to his professional
qualifications.”
FREE CONSULTATIONS.
Anyone who is ill and would like a free opinion of their case can
secure it by wr ting to the Specialists. They make no charge to the poor
and needy. replied tQ taally> and faithfull diagn >sis given.
Medicines are forwarded to all parts of Australia, packed secure from
breakage in transit or observation.
m&C
fces
Gene
Disc
ECMAN k
Iro Medical *
If ;
ft
WHAT THE AUSTRALIAN PRESS SAYS.
Over 100 Australian journals eulogise our Medical Publication,
“CLINICAL EXPERIENCES,” comprising 550 PAGES, 150 MEDICAL
PLATES, 35 CHAPTERS upon GENERAL DISEASES, and graphic-
ally-written articles upon SNAKEBITE, INSOMNIA, ALCOHOLISM,
PLAGUE, FEVER}, ELECTRICITY, FRACTURES, GUNSHOT
WOUNDS, SUNSTROKE, CANCER, CONSUMPTION, &c. It is
elegantly bound, beautifully illustrated and affords the keenest interest to
the student of physiology. It contains a Vocabulary of 1000 medical
terms, and a list of 50 Valuable Prescriptions, which a-e invaluable in
every home. ONE SHILLING ONLY, POST FREE TO ALL AUS-
TRALIA. No further charge. Read it, then lend it to your friends.
THE PHYSICIAN-IN-CHIEF TO THE INSTITUTE IS THE ONLY REGISTERED MEDICAL PRACTITIONER ADVERTISING ELECTRIC
“BELTS” IN AUSTRALIA.
The FREEMAN
WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAL and
SURGICAL INSTITUTE,
Corner of ELIZABETH and BATHURST STREETS. SYDNEY.
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director Electro-Medical Department.
Dr. RICHARD WALLACE, M.D., L.R.C.P., L.R.C.S.E., L.M., Physician-in-Chief.


The Bulletin Reciter:
By Eighty (80) Bulletin Bards. With Illustrations by “ Hop,” N. Lindsay
A. J. Fischer, F. Leist, D. H. Souter, and H. MoCrae, Ip handsome cloth
decorated. Price, 55.; postage, 4d.
Sole Distributing Agents — PRICE 55. ; POSTAGE 4d,
j Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
Hearne
itis Core.
THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Congh, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient
ind a Complete Cure is certain. '
BEWARE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
& MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
DURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
*' Orange, N.S.W.
•Mr. Hearne. —
“Dear Sir,—l enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
>f London, England, from which you will glean that
tour medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr to
mlds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
>e mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
>ort,ion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
and. You can see for yourself what an immense success
t was.—Yours faithfully,
Extract from letter alluded to above:—
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
irrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
I'riday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
nuch interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
iff the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
rom a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
upplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS' TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“Dergholm, Victoria.
“ Dear Sir,—i wish to add mv testimony to the won-
lerful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
nonths, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
dvice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
’ours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
Irst dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
m a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
nay depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
ronderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“ Yours faithfully,
“JAMES ASTBURY.”
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
learne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
ectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
ndoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
he Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
fty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS
"I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
•
“ Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick, i only gave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but lam sending for another bottle in case I should want it.—D. M'DONALD, Trinkey, via
Quirindi, N.S.W.”
©
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
9
‘ My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good, it having quickly cured us both.—R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
Victoria."
O
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me.—(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenniaggie, Victoria.”
©
“ I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria."
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W."
•
“My cold, had as it was, disappeared after two doses.—C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
Queen-street, Melbourne."
“ I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous.—F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria."
“ Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
•
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.—
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” ©
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria."
“I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody. S.
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” •
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine,
but I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of my brief trial.—JOHN C.’
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
•
“ Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well.—H. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.”
•
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have nulled
me through a long and dangerous illness.—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
•
_ “ The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.—CHAS. WHYBROW, Snoch’s
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
" The Scientific Australian Office,
~ _ ~ “ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham ac-
countant, Oollins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO."
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
" 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send us 36
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
* THOMASON, CHATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.”
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir, —Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack ol
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
"Editor Geelong Advertiser."
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
branch d.pot office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6dj Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and IVEedicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
rpfiypi
SMELTING & REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
Works: DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA (56 Miles from Sydney). 1901, Limited.
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores,
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay. SISIgS, J6WelleX*S STVeSP. etCi
Eor all Information regarding Hates, apply to the Manager, Head Office, Dapto;
or, A. E. RUDDER & CO., 40 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
BENGER’S FOOD is
not only highly nutritive,
but is most easily digested
and is so delicious that it
is enjoyed by Infants, In-
valids, Convalescents and
the aged.
m
m
nu
The London Medical Record
says :—“ It is retained when all
other foods are rejected.”
The British Medical Journal
says “ Benger’s Food has by
its excellence established a
reputation of its own.”
Benger’s Food is sold in tins
by Chemists, etc., everywhere.
“E. Durst” tells another storv of a wet
“kid”—
" Yul.’s ” tramway yarn (Bulletin 28/3/’03) had a sequel
recently. A dozen or so youngsters, stark-naked, were
giving a miniature swimming carnival for the benefit of
the crowd in an artificial lake in one of the parks. Shout
of “ Nits-ee ! —traps ! ” The kids darted for their clothes
and “scooted.” One lingered; a panting copper
appeared on the scene, and the kid marooned himself on
one of the islands. The crowd cheered the kid, and
hurled derision at the constable. A thin voice piped :
“ Stay there, Jimmy, yer clobba’s all right.” The news
seemed to revive Jimmy’s spirits, and he thereupon
shouted defiance to the “cop.” and invited him over.
The crowd got more interested when a piece of turf hit
the bobby. Exasperated beyond all endurance, he waded
in—clothes and all. A couple of yards and he disap-
peared, his helmet bobbing like a bell-buoy, marking the
spot. He came up, covered with slime, spluttering and
swearful. The crowd cheered wildly and someone insinu-
ated “Was the water wet?” Jimmy grew alarmed; a
caretaker was waiting patiently on the other side of the
pond. A kid wearing two ooats, a stocking for a neck
scarf, and carrying an extra pair of boots, was in-
citing Jimmy to “ charnce it and swim ! ” Jimmy did.
But the trap was too fast. He left a wake like a steamer,
caught Jimmy by the leg as they approached shallow
water, and then there was a mix-up of bare legs, duck-
clad legs, waving arms, foam and mud, and boyish yells
told something unpleasant was happening to Jimmy.
Hauled ashore Jimmy was sore, shivering and tearful,
and the water was filtering off a still vengeful policeman.
Then as Jimmy couldn’t be led through the street in his
nude state the “cop” solemnly borrowed a chaff-bag
from the caretaker, bagged Jimmy, and carried him away
to the lock-up. I never heard such bad language pouring
out of a bag before.


HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
'with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your Anger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion V If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the Joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
anay be discoloured, or there majr be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILD. Because
others have failed is no reason for not how being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, 1/ljd. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents : /SLLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for theregistered trade mark of the Grasshopper on •
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
THE CONSUMP
TIVES’ CHANCE.
The great gift of the 19th and 20th cen-
turies, the largest boon mankind has received
from science during all the centuries, is the
great splendid fact that we of the 20th century
know it to be certain that, if treated in its
early stages, there is a cure for Consumption.
Consumption is so called because consuming
goes on rapidly at the expense of all the
tissues of the body, and cannot be counter-
acted by ordinary means. The most effective
thing with which to combat Consumption in
its early stages is Scott’s Emulsion, the most
perfect preparation of pure Cod Liver Oil in
the world. What Scott’s Emulsion does in
cases where Consumption has begun, is to
check the consuming which is going on so
rapidly at the expense of the tissues of the
body. By the use of Scott’s Emulsion this
consuming may be stopped.
THE CONSUnPTIVE’S
CHANCE. What anyone threatened
with Consumption or in whom Consumption
has developed, has to choose, is, the right
remedy. His chance of life depends on this.
It is not necessary for us to dwell upon the
symptoms of Consumption. Do not wait until
the symptoms have turned into the full-
developed disease. The message we have to
convey is, that if the signs of Consumption
have been already recognised, begin Scott s
Emulsion to-day ; it will bring immediate
improvement. There is no “if ” nor and
about it.
SCOTT’S EMULSION win
help you from the first dose. You may be
offered a substitute when you ask for Scott’s
Emulsion. The “just as good ”is never the
best. Scott’s Emulsion is the best—the best
by every test. You have only one condition
to fulfil, and that is to see that on the wrapper
of the bottle there is a picture of a man
carrying a big cod-fish ; if that cod-fish is
not there, you are not getting what we pro-
mise you—a cure ! You can obtain a sample
of Scott’s Emulsion and the choicest children’s
booklet of the year, “A Bunch of Roses,”
beautifully printed in colors, by sending
sd. to Scott & Bowne, Ltd., 483 Kent Street,
Sydney, and mentioning this paper. All
chemists sell Scott’s Emulsion.
r NATURAL TONIC
and blood puritier is Seigel’s Syrup, made of
fruits, roots and herbs. It cures constipation and
dyspepsia, regulates the bowels, cleanses the liver,
tones the digestive system, braces the nerves and imparts
the vigour and vitality of health to every organ of the body.
41 For seven years,”
writes Mr. F. J. Pauley,
of Arthur Street, Croydon,
N.S.W., “my stomach was unable to tolerate food of any des-
cription, and the little which I forced myself to eat occasioned
me dreadful pains in the chest, bilious attacks and fits of
vomiting. Now I can digest with ease the toughest
steak that comes out of a butcher’s shop. It was
Mother Seigel’s Syrup wrought the change.
FOR OLD & YOUNG.
'A
URIC ACID.
Rheumatism Gout Backache Lumbago
Sciatica-Persistent Headache—Neuralgia
—Gravel—Stone- Bladder Troubles Their
Cause—Their Scientific Treatment and
Cure. t ;
THE KIDHEYS AND KIDNEY POISONS.
The health of man is influenced to a very great extent by the conditions of the kidneys. Any
disease of the kidneys, or interference with their action, affects the whole system, because the purity
of the blood is dependent upon the proper extraction from it of certain specific poisons, which it is the
duty of the kidneys to remove. .
The kidneys are situated in the small of the back, one on each side of the spine. Human kidneys
are similar in shape to those of a sheep, but are somewhat larger. They are encased in fat, and are
supplied with arteries which convey blood to them from the heart. By a process akin to filtering,
the kidneys take any excess of water from the blood and they also extract from the blood various
waste poisons with which it becomes laden in its journey through the veins.
When a person is in good health these waste poisons are dissolved in the water taken from the
blood by the kidneys, and the solution is passed through narrow passages leading from each kidney
into the bladder, and is thence expelled from the body. This solution is known as urine. Some of
the poisons contained in urine are animal matter, such as urea and uric acid; others are mineral
matter, being salts of lime, magnesia, potash and soda. . .
Unless the kidneys do their work thoroughly, the waste matter is incompletely extracted from
the blood, and becomes actively poisonous, causing us to suffer from various disorders which cannot
be cured until the kidneys are restored to health and activity.
After the blood is filtered and purified by the kidneys it enters the veins, and is, in due time,
returned to the heart, having, in the meanwhile, traversed the body and taken up a fresh supply of
waste matter. The heart again sends the blood to the kidneys, which once more filter it and extract
the impurites. This process goes on without ceasing day or night.
The kidneys of the average man filter and extract from the blood about three pints of urine in
twenty-four hours. In this quantity of urine are dissolved about an ounce of urea, and ten or twelve
grains, in weight, of uric acid, together with other animal and mineral matter, varying from a third
of an ounce to nearly an ounce. . 4 , . _ , , _ ■ _
The blood, in the course of its circulation, carries nourishment, derived from the food we eat, and
oxygen to every part of the tissues of the body, and receives from the tissues matter which they have
consumed and for which they have no further use. This waste matter it is the duty of the skin, lungs
and kidneys to throw off and get rid of. In the form of carbonic acid, the lungs throw off the equiva-
lent of eight ounces of pure charcoal every twenty-four hours, and the kidneys do their share by elimi-
nating urea, uric acid, etc., as described.
The principal disorders directly attributed to failure of the kidneys to perform their allotted task
are Rheumatism, Gout, Lumbago, Sciatica, Persistent Headache, Neuralgia, Ansemia,
Gravel Stone and Bladder Troubles. When the kidneys are properly doing their work none of
the complaints mentioned can exist, because the causative poisons are then duly removed in a natural
manner.
Warner’s Safe Cure.
This remarkable medicine is the outcome of years of scientific research, and has been in use
throughout the world for more than a quarter of a century. It is the only known medicine which has
the power to expel uric acid from the system, and it owes this power simply to its ability to restore
worn, weak, or diseased kidneys to their natural vigor. Nature does the rest.
Thousands suffer from kidney disease and do not know it. The commonest first symptom is
PAIN IN THE BACK.
A simple test to make as to the condition of the kidneys is to place some urine, passed the first thing
in the morning, in a covered glass and let it stand until the next morning. If it is then cloudy or
there is a brick-dust like sediment, or if particles float about in it, then the kidneys are not healthy
and no time should be lost in adopting remedial measures or Bright’s Disease or some serious illness
will be the result.
Remember that Warner’s Safe Cure will in all cases restore the kidneys to health and will con-
sequently cure—and permanently cure—all diseases arising from their feeble condition and the
retention of uric acid in the system.
A treatise containing a full description of the curative action of Warner’s Safe Cure and many
accounts of cases cured will be sent free on application to H. H. Warner and Co., Limited, Australa-
sian Branch, Melbourne.
This “ poem,” entitled “ Suns of Astralia.”
came to hand last week, and is inserted on general
principles:
The astralien contingents to the transvall sailed oer
for to help Old england to Subdue the Boers
and conker or make them Surender and yield
to the laws of great Britten or die on the veldt
but kruger to australia said your Sons the will roo
that the come to South Africka us boers to subdue
When the australiens went over the fought rather geam
for in every battel the gaind oners and feam
and Badden powl was the heroe of all
When at mefking the dutch thot him to fall
but he prooved rather steadfast and loyel and trow
and he still kept weaving his dear netive bloo
Australia is proud of her nobbel sons
of their Breave deeds when fighting of which the have
and their gallant horseship the world thee defye
as the wind through the veldt like the swallows that fly
with hearts that are trow and their foes they dont feer
and cleare heads to gide them wher the wish to Steer
now to South Africka thee bid a due
saying cheer up great brittens to you weel be trow
and wee will be with yous wherever you go
and we will fight like lyons and conker our foes
and whether it bee a pon land or see
we will show the wide world our trow loyelty
now the war over and thee have returned
and menny a mother in australia will mum
for her darling Son that will never return
and menny a young Maid will heave a sigh
for her dearest lover in the transvall does lye
but may their neames live in history as heroes the cleam
and Still be linked with australias good feame
here to the land of australia
long may it be eabel to send
her Sons to the ead of great brittens
when the require a friend
P.g._ w i s h to know yor verchen of these verces in
answers onder the heading of wild flours.
A Memory.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He plunged into the gully—deep into its musk
and green coolness. The laughing water leaped
over the stones, singing to the mosses on the tall
tree ferns—so tall, so scented —through dim, green
vistas, where at every turn he suspected a naiad.
Above the ferns —the gums—up, and up, and
up. A heaven of blue! .. . He paused to
listen. Water splashing, stirring leaves —the
crack of the whip-bird. Another crack, crack,
crack ! A volley of thunder, and the groan of
another forest giant—and, above all, a girl’s
voice, singing. Such a voice! (as he parted the
boughs)—such a face! She sat on a log that
spanned the water. Hands clasped—beauty born
of murmuring sound in her face:
The night has a thousand eyes,
The day but one ;
Bub the light of a whole world dies
With the setting sun.
He caught his foot on a projecting root and
stumbled. The girl did not turn her head, but
ceased singing, and appeared to listen.
“ I startled you,” he volunteered.
“’Tis an awkward path.”
“ But I’ve spoilt your song.”
“ I’d only begun.”
“ Thanks be ! ”
She was not conventional. Emboldened by her
excuses he limped down the bank. Leaning on
his crutches he felt his way carefully along the
log. She remained motionless, and he sat beside
her.
“May I sit here and smoke? And will you
finish the song for me ? ”
“ Yes, if it will please you.”
He wished she would lift her head and show
her eyes.
He was accustomed to the stare that riveted
his shortened limb. The averted gaze spelt pity.
The morbid creature writhed, conjecturing that
she had already seen him through the fern.
Scaring a frog with his crutch, he queried:
“ You come here often ? ”
She did not look up. Had she, perhaps he had
lost the pensive grace of her neck and those
drooping lashes. What a study she would make !
If one could paint that little head of hers — not on
a background of pale gold, but of green—cool,
haunting, inspiring green!
“ Often—just as you do.”
“I?”
“I hear you pass. You passed the gully yes-
terday—at dusk.”
“Did you see me?”
“No; I heard you. You paused and struck a
match on the big gum that blocks the track.”
He whistled.
“ Witch, nymph, dryad—what are you ? What
forest-sharp ears ! ”
“ A mortal sitting at the feet of the Bush, to
catch its song.”
“Give me the words. Tell me ; I listen ! ”
“ That’s what I do—listen ! Did you pause to
hear the whip-bird and the music of the creek ? I
thought I heard you stop. It babbles on and on
—morning, noon and night. On, and on, and on.”
Her voice rippled like the running water. With
a flowing rush she continued :
“Don’t you love it, too? The soft singing of
the mosses, the flapping bark, the rustle of rotting
fern (it smells so sweet !) the slip ! slip ! of the
little lizards, the dead leaves rustling.”
He prodded with his crutch.
“Your turn! What do you see ? Tell me?”
“I see a world of green,” he droned. “A
world of light and shade. Of sunlit fern. Of
crystal stream. The stepping-stones gleam a
rusty gold in the shallows. The sky, a fainting
blue.”
He paused.
“I see a dryad dreaming on a log—white
robed—wonderful. I see her head, her face, her
soft elf-locks. Her eyes are on the water. She
gazes, gazes, gazes ! Look ! see how you quiver
in your whiteness. You seem to shrink aloof
from me. From me—the parody of a man—the
picture out of drawing. ”
His eyes sought her face. It was pale, with
trembling lips. On the curved lashes a tear.
“Don’t!” he implored. “Not pity—that
unmans me. I—l—hate pity. I never drivelled
before. Even as a child, not to my mother.”
He laid his crutch beside its companion on the
log.
“Witch!” he exclaimed whimsically, “what
spell have you women—what charm to bind
me ?. . . those tears! But the world is full of
us : the halt, the lame and the blind—”
‘ 1 Tell ine, ”he burst out; ‘ ‘ could you (so perfect)
love anything not physically perfect ? Answer,
Dryad ?
He could scarcely distinguish her “Yes!”
above the splashing of the water. Yet she said
“Yes.”
“ God love you ! Do you think you could learn
in time (don’t call me mad) in time— to care fof
me?”
The rustling fern almost drowned her whisper.
But her lips said “ Yes.” “ And he caught his
breath —“ you haven’t looked at me yet! ”
Then she raised her head and turned her face to
his. Beautiful as morning, passionate as night.
What lips, what hair— what eyes !
Wide, blue, deeply fringed—but—unseeing !
Wha+ denths of pathos !
“ Good God !—you are— ”
“Blind!”
b., P pronounced the brutal word calmly, he
shuddering as though in an ague.
This dryad, this beauty he purposed immortal-
ising with his brush. Blind ! He, with his repul-
sion for anything physically imperfect, linked to a
blind mate.
The water babbled on and on ;on and on. The
sun pierced the boughs and lit the shining avenues
of living green. The whip-bird rang his note.
The lizards slipped through the fern. Shade lay
deep on the distant hills ; but silence lay like a
stone between the two.
At last the girl spoke.
“ Give me your face.”
She touched each feature lightly, caressingly,
letting her fingers linger in his hair.
Then she let them fall, whispering “Good-
bye! ”
“ Good-bye l
“Oh!” she moaned. “I cannot see. But—
your voice, when you said ‘ Blind! ’ Go ! ” she
sobbed, fiercely. “Can you not see? It would
be mad. Impossible, not only for us, but others.
The halt and the blind ! It is a dream—a mid-
summer madness.”
The finality in her voice smote him—and yet
“I dreamed a dream” —her voice took a
cadence of deepest yearning—“a dream of fuller
woman’s life. Of curly heads—of cradle songs—
of sudden love—ah, Go /”
He picked up his crutches.
“Let us—be friends ! ”
“You are—a Memory ! ” she answered.
He stumbled along the log and up the bank.
There he paused, looking on the picture that
should render his name famous —hereafter.
A rippling stream with boulders of rusty gold.
A background of magic green. The white-robed
dryad of the woods, with eyes bent on the water
gazing, gazing
She heard him pause. Her voice floated up to
him, finishing the interrupted song :
The mind ha 9 a thousand eyes,
The heart but one ;
But the light of a whole life dies
When Love is done.
THE YOUNG 'UN.
“ 0.P.” : I have the misfortune to live on
the route of Victoria’s champion steep-grade line
to Caulfield, and frequently travel home in the
morning by Bent’s early goods train —when it
goes before the first “passenger.” The engine
that draws this load works about 20 hours daily;
the driver, fireman and guard ditto. Frequently
the train is too heavy, and the engine refuses
to draw on the grades. Three mornings lately
we have been stuck up for over an hour, with the
wheels of the locomotive racing like a turbine,
with every effort to start it. On the last occasion
this happened there were three passenger trains
delayed thereby. The Westingnouse only needs
to fail once on the Hawkesburn grade and a heavy
“ goods ” will run back to South Yarra and cause
a healthy smash with the passenger train, which
usually gets “ stuck up ” there on these occasions.


No. F5419—18c.
Gold Diamond ard
Sapphire Ring, £2.
No. F2B76.—Pretty Glass-lined Shell
Butter Dish, with Knife, 13s 6d.
No. SO.—lsc. Gold and Fine Opal and Pearl Be
Brooch, £2 10s.
&
No. F693l.—Exquisite Diamond and Ruby
Brooch, £l3 10s.
No. F 419.—Novel
Charm, 9ct. Gold,
Mouse in a Hat, 8s 6d
»o. F7393.—15c. Gold
Rope and Anchor
Charm, 8a 6d.
No. F5328.—18c. Gold
Diamond & Sapphire
Ring, £5 10s.
No. Gl39s.—Solid Silver Serviett*
Bing, 4a 6d.
A
\
150. Gold and Fine
Pearl Star Pendant,
£4los; others up to £lO
9et. Gold Fashionable
Photo. Pendant, 7s 6d ;
larger, 8s Gd, 11s 6d.
With Pearls, 27s 6d.
No. F 3198. — Neat, Plain Onyx and
Gold Mourning Brooch, 13s 6d.
mm
m
i/ILLE CMtOEBS
tarns
No. Fs9os.—Gentleman’s Embossed Solid Silver Visiting
Card Case, 16s 6d.
) CUVSO7I&
" BETTER QUALITY FOR LESS MONEY.” That fs the Stewart Dawson Idea of
K carrying: on a business. It’s our way of winning: End keeping: your custom.
We admit we are in a better position to buy at the right prices than any
other firm in Australasia, but remember that it was through following: the policy
mentioned above that we have grown from one Store to Eight. There is a reason at
the back of everything, and BETTER QUALITY FOR LESS MONEY is the reason for
our growth and popularity. Orders ky post have careful attention, and catalogues
and information are gladly sent to enquirers.
No. E 7302. Pearl,
Turquoise and 9c.
Gold Heart Pen-
dant, 17s 6d.
No. F 7392.—150-
Gold Filigree
Ornamented
Bean Charm,
10s 6d.
No. 215.—Fine
Pearl and Sapphire
Heart, 9c. Gold,
16s 6d.
No. F 742Q —Solid
Gold Perfect
Model Pipe
Charm,
8s 6d.
No. F44s4.—Fine
Quality Silver-plated
Centrepiece, 20in.
high, with Stag Or-
naments and
Engraved Glass Dish
and Vase, £3 15s.
No. Gl399.—Solid Silver Queen Anne Salt Cellars anrj
Spoons, in Morocco Case, 52s 6d.
EWART DAWSON 8t C o
This shows the new Pearl Necklet made from real solid Mother of
Pearl and coated by a secret process to imitate the real
pearls. The imitation is practically perfect, and only an expert
can tell the difference. Prices, £i, £i 10s, £4 15s, £5.
No. F 3738. —Neat Leather Purse, with Handsome
Silver Mounts and Lock, 13s 6d.
No. F9933.—Child’s Cup,
Silver Plated and En-
graved in case, 14s 6d.
No. 380.—Mother of Pearl Silver Plated and Engraved Butter Knife, 3s 6d.
No. Gl396.—Gadroon Edge Solid Silver
Serviette Eing, lls 6d.
uu (R
wmm
FB2lo.—Fine Leather and Sol.
Silver Blotting Book, 25a.
No. F976.—Fine Pearl Set, 15c. Gold 2 Bar
Brooch, 37s 6d.
Illustrated Catalogue
POST FREE.
No. 163.—18 e. Gold
Diamond and Ruby
Ring, £3 10s; larger
£5 10s.
♦♦ ♦ ♦
T
HERE ARE SEVERAL
TALKING MACHINES
♦ •
BUT THERE IS ONLY ONE . .
WHICH IS MADE BY
The gramophone A Typewriter Qtd.
mu
This is a “JUNIOR fIONARCH ” GRAMOPHONE,
Price £6 10s., and it is unsurpassed by any
Talking Machine at any Price.
Other Styles, £3 to £l4 10s.
T is well to remember this when discussing the artistic merit of sound reproducing contrivances. There is little
difficulty in reproducing a sound. There is, however, a gigantic difficulty in reproducing good music, and the actual
voices of famous singers. We would ask you to remember that THE GRAMOPHONE made by The Gramophone
and Typewriter Ltd. does this. How do we do it? Why, because we have unlimited capital at our back, and because
we do not hesitate to obtain the services of the finest and most celebrated artistes of the day to sing for us. The better the
artiste the better the song. The public are the best judges in the world of tiie intrinsic value of an article. We are selling
FIVE MILLION RECORDS
per annum—and why ? Because our records are real reproductions of these singers. Our catalogue includes records made
by Carusa, Platon, Renaud, David Bispham, Ben Davies, Andrew Black, Richard Green, Joseph O’Mara, Mesdames Calve,
Suzanne Adams, Kirby Lunn, Esther Palliser, Percival Allen, Connie Ediss, and Marie Tempest. Also Dan Leno, George
Robey, Louis Bradfield, and Maurice Earkoa, besides hundreds of others.
Represented all over
■<—the World.
Australian Agencies—VlCTOßlA: A. P. Sykes, 227 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA : Messrs. S. B. Hunt & Co., 94 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
WESTRALIA: Messrs. Nicholson & Co.. Perth.
TASMANIA: Messrs. Wertheimer, Benjamin, & Anderson, 71 Collins Street, Hobart.
QUEENSLAND: Messrs. Heindorff Bros., 210 Queen Street, Brisbane.
WHOLESALE DEPOT FOR AUSTRALASIA- AGENTS IN EVERY TOWN.
The Gramophone and Typewriter Ltd., 163 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.


n
■s;
r
S'
1
w
m
l
OF
JU
Jl
KIDNEYS. LIVER ANO BOWELS.
5
*
£S
5/'
©
NATURES
PLEASANT
LAXATIVE”.
THE ORIGINAL
AND
GENUINE.
California Syrup of Figs is the one True Natural Laxative. It acts
gently, pleasantly and beneficially on the Kidneys, Liver, and Bowels,
and permanently overcomes Habitual Constipation.
Words of Advice:
Ask for CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS, and see that
the package bears the well-known Name and Trade Mark
of the California Fig Syrup Co., the Manufacturers of the
only Original and Genuine. Imitations are numerous, but
as you value your health you cannot risk taking a substi-
tute. California Syrup of Figs is sold in Australia in two
sizes at 1/3 and 1/11. Worthless substitutes are often
offered at less as an inducement.
Of all Chemists and Stores.
California Fig Syrup Company, 32 Suow Hill, London, E.O.
Australia: 7 Barrack Street, Sydney.
A. <§b F.
9
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Hotice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd #
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
Limited.
A Tragedy in Finance.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When I first knew Russell Smith lie was a light-
hearted young man who lived in the top back
room of our boarding-house in Woolloomooloo.
He had the biggest screw in our boarding-house,
and rejoiced in the munificent income of £3 10s.
per week, whilst the most gilded of us could only
strike £2 15s. We envied Smith.
That envy was increased and intensified by the
occasional arrival of small folded slips from the
Savings Bank, which the landlady laid rever-
entially on the small plate of the affluent young
man, beside his Daily Telegraph.
Most of us had to be at work by nine a.m., and
therefore we never read the morning paper, and
the house only subscribed to the evening journals.
But Mr. Smith, being in a law office of high
renown, used to float in to practise his profession
somewhere after 10 o’clock. And it was this fact
that led him to buy a Daily Telegraph, and
thereby brought about his ruin.
The top back room of our boarding-house was
the best in the establishment. It had a marble
fireplace, fitted with a gas and asbestos grate.
The walls were dotted over with elegant pictures
of ladies in various stages of undress, all done by
good artists in sepia; and must have cost a trifle.
Then there were alabaster statuettes, and neat
things in majolica, and one or two in Wedgewood,
which held scented Chinese lilies and water
hyacinths. The plain ordinary iron bedstead and
the sordid washstand were concealed behind
Japanese screens, which were mostly decorated
with flights of white swans over green and yellow
swamps into gold and carmine sunsets. Most of
us spent our evenings up there listening to the
elegant Smith complaining of never having any
money.
* * * *
Mr. Smith had taken to reading the D.T. finan-
cial column, which, according to Pumpkin Smith,
in the Australian Parliament, was edited by the
“ greatest financial authority ” in Australia. Mr.
Russell Smith dabbled, metaphorically, in finance,
and used to lecture learnedly on the necessity for
borrowing to develop the resources of this young
country. In all such discussions he invariably
addressed himself to the S’African ex-journalist,
who had come over here when the war started,
and was making a precarious living on “space.”
“Now, there’s this subject of borrowing for
reproductive works. The Gre itest Financial
Authority in Australia lays it down in the D.T.
that it is a distinct gain to any community to
borrow money to make a raihvay which will earn
sufficient to pay interest on its cost. It doesn’t
matter if the principal is never paid. As the
railway earns the cost of its own construction the
country is never any worse off if it doesn’t pay tne
principal for ever. If, by borrowing money, I can
make two sheep live well where only half a one
lived before, it is a distinct gain to me. I would
liave one sheep all to myself, and the other fellow
would pay the interest-bill and other exes, and I’d
still be half a sheep better off than I was before—
that's as clear as mud, isn’t it ? ”
The Africander said he wasn’t quite sure
about it.
Mr. Smith went on: “Now, I’ve been con-
sidering how all this applies to me personally,
who have neither sheep nor railways. I get a
decent screw, but never seem to have any money;
but now, just through reading those D. 1. financial
articles, I begin to see how I can save some.
Just now it costs me 6s. 6d. per week for tram
fares. Nillson, round the corner, wants to sell
for £12 a Humber bike which cost him £21 three
months ago. I can borrow .812 for four months
on my own personal security for £2, which is
2s. 6d. per week. That bike will do away with
any necessity for my using the trams at all, will
give me healthy exercise, and, by Jove, save me
4s. per week in tram fares, after paying the
interest on the purchase money. What’s good for
the community is good for the individual.”
Two days later Smith brought nome the bike.
At the end of the month the Africander asked
him how he stood, and Russell Smith figured it
out like this : _
“ This bike originally cost £21; I got it for £12,
and, allowing £2 for depreciation, I made a clear
profit of £7. Then there are four weeks tram
fares saved at 6s. 6d. per week, which makes a
gross profit of £8 6s. for the first month. Against
that there is Is. for oil and 10s. interest on the
purchase money, total exes 11s., clear profit of
£7 15s.
“But that isn’t all. That’s only the direct
saving, and there are a lot of indirect profits.
Before I had the machine I often used to take
some girl—sometimes two—to Manly or Y\ atson s
Bay for a day, and it never cost me mss than hait-
a-sov. Then there’s papers and periodicals 1 have
ceased to buy as I haven’t time to read so much
now, and my Sunday excursions on the bike rarely
cost me more than half-a-dollar, so the true way
of putting it would belike this oh . but 1 foigoj.
since I’ve had the bike I go aoout much more, and
if I was to do my extra travelling on trams it
would cost me fully 7s. 6d. per week ; so the really
truthful state of affairs would be as follows—of
course I exclude the £7 original profit I made on
the purchase of the machine, and this only repre-
sents my regular saving:
Savings. Expenditure.
Magazines I don’t Oil .. .. " o «
riad .. ..£0 2 0 Interest .. .. « £ ®
Girl I don’t take Sundays - 0 i 0
out .. .. 0 10 0
Ordinary tramfares 0 0 6
Extra trams which
I don’t pay
through having
bike .. .. 0 7 6 .
Total Savings £1 6 0 Total.. ..£0 6 0
Clear saving weekly of £1
,, monthly of £4
” yearly of £52.
Now, .mat’s not too bad, is it ? ”
“Do you have any more money? asked the
Well I don’t seem to, but when I figure it
out I know I must have. Figures cannot lie.
The Africander chuckled.
When the four months were up the S African
asked Smith if he had paid off the £12 he borrowed
to buy the bike with. ., ' .
“No fear,” said Smith, “if I paid off that
money I would be out of pocket. If - P“d ott
it would have ceased to earn me =£1 per week,
and I don’t want to stop earning
I just paid up the interest and renewed the prm
cipal. The D.T.’s financial column doesn t say
anything about the necessity of a sinking fund.
the Africander went out and got drunk.
When he sobered up again he marvelled.
Russell Smith had made another dear £9 by
buying with £16 of borrowed money a typewnter
worth £25, and with which he was going to make
more money in his spare hours by writing for the
press. After he had learned to use the thing, his
writings brought him in on an average about £1
per week after paying the interest on the purchase
loan, and Smith said he saw it sticking out that)
he would make a fortune in a few years—if he
could only get sufficient credit.
* • » •
Just about this time Russell Smith, sen., uncle
of the man in the top back room, died, and left
that fortunate young man <£sooo in cash and a
thousand shares (£5 paid-up) in the Adulterated
Brewery Co. Ltd. The Adulterated concern was an
institution which paid 15 per cent, dividends—
even if it took them out of the reserve fund.
Smith promptly borrowed all he could on the
security of that £5OOO worth of stock, and with it
bought up more shares. At the end of the
year he found he received over £lOOO in dividends
and paid <£loo in interest. Over and above this
he had made a clear rise of £250 on the purchase
of the shares, but somehow the £250 didn’t seem
to be available to go on the scoot with.
The £5OOO he at once invested in suburban
house property, and immediately he got the deeds
he mortgaged the property for another £l5OO,
which he also invested in household property.
He paid 8 per cent, for that money, and the
houses brought him in 15 per cent.
This blissful state of affairs lasted nearly four
years. Being a young man of artistic tastes, he
lived up to every penny of his income, paid his
interest regularly, and kept his credit at zenith.
The first fly that got into his ointment was when
the Adulterated Brewery Co. suddenly reduced its
dividend from 15 to 5 per cent.
For the first time in his brilliant career Russell
Smith was unable to pay his interest, and he tried
to sell his shares in vain. The Adulterated concern
looked very groggy in more ways than one, and
there were no buyers. It was expected that the
co. would have to go into liquidation, but Smith’s
interest in it suddenly ended when his shares were
foreclosed on by the mortgagee —the man who lent
him the money to buy more shares with. He had
lost not only the shares he had bought with
borrowed money, but those his uncle left him also.
Then suddenly the big estate that adjoined his
suburban property was cut up. The enterprising
co. that owned it built comfortable little homes
all over it, each standing in its own garden. The
electric-light was laid on, and the rent was less
than Smith had been charging for the dog-boxes
he was pleased to call tenements. His tenants
faded away rapidly. Most of his houses were
falling into disrepair, and Smith had no capital
with which to repair them. Three-parts of them
were empty, and another default loomed ahead ,
and Smith tried once more to sell or float a second
mortgage ; but there were no buyers, and the
original mortgagee was doubtful if it was worth
while foreclosing. But he risked it ; and Smith s
worldly wealth was reduced to the ancient bike
and the worn-out typewriter he had bought with
borrowed money nearly five years before.
Then the bike was wrecked by a drunken cab-
man who drove over it. The typewriter came to
a sudden end through being dropped by a clumsy
chambermaid while lifting it to dust the table.
It crashed down on to the marble hearth, and
when Smith came home at night he found he had
nothing. , , TT . ,
But his faith was still unshaken. He replaced
them with two other instruments, bought with
borrowed money ; and now, night after night, I
hear a tired and soured young man pounding
away till late on a noisy typewriter, trying to
make with one machine enough money to pay
interest on the purchase-money of two bikes and
two typers—one bike and one type-writer having
been deposited on Moore Park tip long months
ag Had Russell Smith never taken to reading the
financial columns of the D.T., and so imbibed the
lore of the Greatest Australian Financial Authority,
he might have still been an affluent young man in
a pretty room, without cares or worry, and with
just enough money to keep him in comfort and
not take him to the devil.
HERMES.
Providence and a Cattle-Pup.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
X had called round at Miller s selection, in the
exercise of my ministry, to put a few small but
expensive duplicates on his string-binder. Staying
all night at the place, I roughly averaged him as
a nondescript Englishman, of no particular age ,
married to one of the Shanahan girls, and clown-
ishly fond of his Anglo-Irish-Australian kid. I
had repaired the Shanahans’ binder some days
before. .
Next morning, at the first note of the magpie, 1
heard the household astir, but only to begin the
day with discord. At least, there was a torrent
of unpunctuated vituperation, in a feminine voice,
with unintelligible replies in a manlier tone
Suddenly I sprang to the floor for a sound of
thumping had succeeded the basso, while the
soprano had merged into screams. But I could
find no trace of my pants, high or low ; and a fat
cattle-pup, which shared my bed-room retarded
the search by playfully worrying my bare legs.
At last I found my garment under the bed, where
the pup had dragged it during the night. Any-
wayl by the time I was prepared for intervention,
the unpleasantness was over; the woman had
started, bareheaded, across the paddocks toward
Shanahan’s ; while the so-called man was soothing
and dressing little Johnny. .
Presently we had breakfast together A certain
constraint seemed to sit upon us both; but the
psychological moment had slipped—thanks to the
apparently fatuous antics of that cattle-pup and
I did not feel it befitting to pick a quarrel with the
unworthy object before me, in the presence of his
hmocent offspring. Incidentally, I was the bigger
and likelier man of the two. T v,ori
Leaving the place shortly afterward, I had
driven a quarter of a mile when two horsemen
met and passed me at a gallop, without saluta-
tion. I recognised the young Shanahans—fine
tall, strapping fellows, as Northern Victorians
k 6? turned the buggy and followed them, pushing
my horse to the best pace he could command.
Base and dastardly as the wife-beater might be,
it was hardly the correct thing to douWe-bank
and maltreat him on his own premises, when the
nffpnff* itself was irrevocable.
Meantime the Shanahans had at
the front slip-panel, and disappeared beyond the
gardenfence! I reached the spot.a few minutes
biter • but only to met them sprinting for their
horses, demoralised, dishevelled, and bloody-
nosed, with the aptly-named “Miller” in hot
P Th U enl resumed my way, reverently recognising
the finger of a diplomatic and benevolent
Providence in the seemingly insensate skylarking
of that cattle-pup.
TOM COLLINS.


I
DREADFUL DROPSY.
' ro <jXXi» joo—
A VICTORIAN LADY’S WONDERFUL RECOVERY.
Tapped Every Month for a Year and a Half. Thirty=three
Pints of Water Removed at One Operation. Doctors
agreed her Case was Hopeless. Friends asked the
Clergyman to tell her that Death was Inevitable.
Cured One Year Ago by
CO
O
c n
w
<
<
O
<
m
CO
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
And “STILL WELL TO-DAY.”
Two Letters Written by Miss MARY A. BROWN, Streatham, Vic.
First Letter.
“ Streatham, Vic., June 6th, 1901.
“I have been suffering from Dropsy for the past six-
teen months, trying many different kinds of medicine.
For the past three months I have been using Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills, and feel sure they are doing me
good. If there is any advice you could send me, I will
be glad to receive it. The doctors tap me every month,
a great quantity of water being taken away each time.
I manage to move about from room to room, and take all
the exercise I can.”
Second Letter. -
“Streatliarn, Vic., November 19th, 1902.
“June twelve months I wrote you asking advice regard-
ing the use of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, in a case of
dropsy and Bright’s Disease, which I had suffered from
for sixteen months prior to using Doan’s Bachache
Kidney Pills. Your reply was to persevere with the
medicine, which 1 did. I used fifty-three boxes in seven
months, when I left off using the medicine, thoroughly
cured. My friends were all joyfully surprised at the
result—and I need scarcely mention my own feelings
about the matter. My case had been
Looked Upon as Hopeless.
In fact the doctors said it was the worst form of
Bright’s Disease they had ever seen, and they told my
friends that I would never recover. They believed that
it was caused by an attack of Scarlatina, which had
troubled me for some time before. My friends asked the
clergyman to tell me that I could not live. I was not at
all surprised to hear the warning, intuition having told
me many and many a time that I could not bear the
burden much longer, and I had come to look upon death
as more a means of deliverance than anything at all to
be dreaded.
For sixteen months prior to using Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills it had been found necessary to tap me every
month. 1 was first tapped in Geelong Hospital. The
succeeding month the accumulation of water was
incredible, and each month was worse than the last.
I used to get an enormous size. Then I went to a
Ballarat hospital, where two doctors were in attendance
each time the water was taken from my system.
By this time I was very ill indeed, and had to
be tapped at home, where, on one occasion, they
Took Away 33 Pints of Water.
I could not stoop to lace my shoes, and I only managed
to go from room to room with the utmost difficulty. The
doctors did not pretend to be able to do me any good ;
they just tapped when it was impossible for me to live
with a greater quantity of water in my body. You can-
not wonder that I was wearied of it all, and almost
wished for the end that seemed alone able to bring me
rest.
1 had been taking dozens of medicines since my health
became so bad ; some the doctors had prescribed, and
used many which friends of mine had recommended,
lien l was pretty well at my worst, a friend, who had
used Doan s Backache Kidney Pills, advised me to try
, is medicine. Shortly afterwards another friend who
aid been cuied by the Pills, gave me similar advice, and
alter that I got further advice to use the same medicine,
'■fua 1 C f se f r i en dis had taken the Backache Pills
''ith the best results, so it was a great encouragement
or lne use tht m, though I felt that I was past the
power of any medicine to benefit me in the slightest,
b rom when I started with them the
Improvement was Steady*
hour months after I took the first dose I did not need
to be tapped, and three months later on I was quite
cured. Ive been free of the ailment 12 months now, not
one sign having returned. My body and limbs are their
natural size, and there is no unnatural swelling.
1 am happy to be able to write you this letter, as it
may benefit others who suffer as I have suffered. If you
Y, A, j C lU this statement signed by clergymen,
•I s.i ~ and other well-known people, as my case is known
t.u and wide. I cannot sufficiently express my gratitude
to this medicine, and I trust that it will prove as great a
blessing to other sufferers as it has been to me. I will
always be glad to see anybody wishing to inquire into my
cure ; or, if they write, answer any questions.”
DROPSY is a swelling of the flesh caused by the escape into the tissues of the watery parts of the blood \Vh P n ~ n Uat .
the surplus water from the blood, the blood passing through the kidneys for this purpose. P h h kidneys are in health they filter all
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills have proved themselves a certain cure f&r Dropsy. These nills beorin tn wi „. . , ~,
enabled to take out the surplus water more and more freely, and in consequence the progress of the disease is arrested tin 1 \ Sidneys heal j'
swelling and resume their natural shape. That such is the case many testify, but m proof we have reproduced the above 7
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS are sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 9/9 iw hnx letters,
price by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-st., Sydney. storekeepers at ./J per box (six boxes for 15/3), or will be sent on receipt
of
BUT BE SURE
TREY ARE DOAN’S.
The Port of What’s the Good.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There is a land we all must reach
Who die not over young ;
Our barques we board from pier and beach,
While joyous songs are sung ;
And heading for the Happy Isles,
We shape the course we should—
To meet the current that beguiles
Our craft to What’s the Good.
Some sailed to east and some to west:
Their course, with stars and chart,
Worked out to reach the Islands Blest.
Then brain and hand and heart,
In constant tension stout and strong
The strain and stress withstood ;
In vain—their ships lie berthed along
The wharves of What’s the Good.
Some book their passages saloon
To lead a prince’s life,
Some stow-away to crave the boon
Of slavery and strife;
Content to stoke the journey through
For meagre sleep and food.
Too late they find they’re taken to
The port of What’s the Good.
We mostly work our passage free,
With thoughts that soon we’ll land
Upon the marble-mottled quay
That joins that glowing strand ;
We reef or stoke or tug the oar,
Too late ’tis understood—
The almost lifelong voyage o’er —
We’re fast at What’s the Good.
In barque or barge, in liner swift,
In foul, filth-sodden smack,
With self-same certainty we drift
Along the wake-worn track.
In galleys tricked with silken sails
And decked with sandalwood,
The rudder just as surely fails
To steer from What’s the Good.
Some start the voyage with intent
To make the barren port;
Sardonic Fate to these has sent
A passage calm and short.
Some from the winds of toil and pain
Sought shelter as they could,
To find no vessel e’er again
Beats out from What’s the Good.
A handful reach the Isles. A week
They revel, danbe and sing ;
Then wake to find upon the peak
The peter fluttering;
As in a dream they re-embark
O’er pleasures past to brood,
Until they sight the mountains dark
That compass What’s the Good.
Along the passage danger lies
And death and sin and shame—
Uncharted rooks of flashing eyes,
St. Elmo’s light of Fame ;
He needs strong will who’d clear the first,
Strong sight to safe elude
The dazzling rays that e’er accursed
The road to What’s the Good.
A scrape, a crash, the whirlpools mark
The graves the vessels find ;
Sun-blinded, spray-swept, starving, stark,
The rafts, in frenzy blind,
Toil through the seas to end their task
Through golden cliffs that hood
The narrow straits that ever mask
The port of What’s the Good.
Pull in the oar and let her drift
(The fastest route of all),
'Shut off your steam, nor deign to lift
A sail, a rope to haul.
With bunkers down and timbers bare,
In smiling brotherhood,
Smoke on, philosophers, and share
The sweets of What’s the Good.
V.
C.N.
The Fleshpots of Australia.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In diet, regularity is the first essential; the other
two are quantity and quality. Feed an animal
regularly and it will always be ready at the exact
time. But you can overfeed and bring about a
disastrous state of things. Some people are
always ready to eat—in fact, they will tell you
that their “system’’—whatever that is—requires
it. They must have a cup of tea before or imme-
diately after getting out of bed. They are then
ready for breakfast at 8 or 9, the fashionable “11
o’cloeker,” lunch at 1 or 2, a snack at 4 or 5, tea
at 6 or 7, and supper before going to bed.
The average Australian, however, does not tax
his digestive powers in the above injurious way ;
he makes three meals a day. But at breakfast he
eats too much. After a good sleep and the repose
of the night the human body does not need and,
in fact, is not ready for the support that a big
breakfast is supposed to give. He who takes
such a meal acts like the Queen in “Alice in
Wonderland,” who screamed and bandaged her
finger before she cut it; and the consequence is
he is not prepared to eat enough at his midday
meal, Some eat a big breakfast with malice pre-
pense because they won’t allow their midday meal
to interfere with their business, and health is
sacrificed to money-making.
Breakfast should be taken between six and
seven. It should be strictly “ breaking the fast,”
and consist only of a cup of tea, coffee, chocolate
or cocoa and a slice of bread or bread and butter.
This slight meal will induce a roaring and healthy
appetite at between half-past eleven and twelve
o’clock, at which hour the chief meal of the day
should be taken without any undue hurry and
scurry, or attempt to return to work before half-
past one or two. When in town a game of
billiards, or a quiet walk after the midday meal,
will be found very beneficial. Of course this extra
hour of leisure, apparently stolen from the sacred
hours which the Britisher devotes to business,
should be made up, and that will be found to be an
easy matter when an early breakfast is substituted
for the late and ponderous meal that generally
obtains where the English language is spoken.
The last meal of the day—be it called dinner or
supper, it really does not matter —should be taken
between six and seven.
Among the many reasons for the bad cooking we
get in Australia may be mentioned the abundance
and cheapness of meat in the past. It was so
easy and convenient in the days gone by to roast
a large joint and “come at it” for several days,
that no thought was given to the more elaborate
processes of cooking that are required to make
the best of scraps. It is astonishing how the
present dearth of meat is working in this way.
There is an English objection to “ made ” dishes
and soups. I remember once hearing a starving
tramp in London refuse a bowl of good mutton-
broth. “I carn’t stomach wet wittles,” he said,
and walked off greatly offended at the offer.
Before the boiled leg-of-mutton was dished up
with caper sauce the broth used to be poured
down the sink. We learnt to do better than that
in Australia lately, and even sheep’s heads are
looking up.
That reminds of a yarn that M. Jules Joubert
told years ago. It was in the eighties, I believe, he
was travelling in Westralia with a numerous
party, when provisions became scarce and
grumblings grew fierce. At a station where half-
a-dozen sheep had been slaughtered the party was
unable, for some reason or other, to get even a
hind-quarter. Joubert noticed that, as usual, the
heads of the sheep had been thrown away, a fact
which he intimated to his French servant, who
took up the heads and put them in a bag. In the
camp, at night, all the party acknowledged that
they had never made a better dinner. They had
expected starvation—and the French cook served
up four or five dishes, besides mutton broth, to a
party of eight hungry travellers.
It all came from the sheep’s heads and a few
tins of preserved vegetables that Mr. Joubert
always carried with him in case of an emergency.
Butchers in Australia are only just beginning
to learn their business, now that they have to deal
with smaller joints. The butcher of the past was
truly a carcase butcher, amere slaughterer. Modern
butchers, alas ! are little better, and the way they
hack at a joint and send the bone splinters flying
as from a blacksmith’s anvil, and then mop them
up by flinging the meat around, would horrify
any decent buccaneer. It brings to their cus-
tomers fearful risks of perforation of the bowels.
Butchers should use the saw instead of the batter-
ing-ram when dealing with such a delicate and
gentle thing as a joint of mutton or lamb.
The midday meal of an Australian should be as
good as a Frenchman’s. I fancy I hear someone
say, “ Yes ! rather ■!—at least.” * Yet it is not to
be compared. Take the working-man, for in-
stance. What does he get ? In Sydney he
generally goes to a sixpenny restaurant.' We can
guess what he gets there, and the less said about
it the better ; the pity is that he goes to a six-
penny restaurant when he could save on his drinks
and fare better elsewhere. The French working-
man will spend a shilling at his “second
dejeuner,” or dinner, and get, perhaps, something
like this (I translate from an old “carte” of
one of Duval’s restaurants, of which there used to
be 40 in various quarters of Paris):
Soupe (Spring soup) ..
Cdtelettes aux pommes (grilled cutlets and fried lU °'
potatoes) .. „
Macaroni au gratin (macaroni with butter and '
cheese boiled and then baked) ~
Salade (dressed salad) .. .. ’ \ " fr® 1
Wine (small bottle, with syphon of mineral water) %
oaf 6 ” - •• 20c!
B. 20c.
Tt is not an elaborate meal, and you may find
something similar in words—but in words only—
in the shilling bills-of-fare in Sydney. All
difference would be in the cooking. 6
The same remark applies to the evening meal
with this exception, that, in Sydney, the evening
meals are a little worse.
I happened in a shilling restaurant one day to
ask for some “Boeuf k la mode.” Now, it was
rather daring to ask for such a dish, because Iceuf
a la mode requires a certain amount of skill and
delicate attention that the average Sydney cook
is quite incapable of bestowing. However the
ordered dish came to hand. It was not bad’ but
it was rabbit, so I told the waitress as much when
she came round again, thinking there had been
some mistake; but no. “ That’s all right, sir ”
she said, reassuringly. At which astounding
statement I ventured to ask her what “ Bmf”
meant. She didn’t know, she meekly replied,
and, as I told her that it meant “beef,” she
showed some interest in the subject, and asked
me what the meaning of A la mode was. When
she found that “according to fashion” was the
English for that portion of the menu she smiled
and walked away.
Presently, she returned with pen and ink, and
asked me if I “ wouldn’t mind writing in French
on the bill of fare, ‘Beef according to the last
fashion.’ ” And now, in that place, stewed rabbit
is known as “ Beenf d la derniere mode."
GEORGE COLLINGRIDGE.
The Anglican Bishop of Melbourne, in
replying to a deputation of unemployed the other
day, stated that the Church in dealing with
similar troubles in England “had found light
work such as wood-chopping useful.” Writer has
been through the mill at most of the usual bush
work, and he has hitherto regarded wood-chopping
as one of the heaviest kinds of graft. But now
that such an authority as a Bishop explains that
it is light work, of course that settles the matter.
All the same the man who makes light work of
wood chopping isn’t likely to chop much wood.
“ Burglar Bill ” on a religious topic
The average gaol-chaplain exercises remarkable judg-
ment in the choice of sermon matter. Have heard a R.C.
chaplain discourse for three consecutive sermons on
“ Infant Baptism.” “Mixed Marriages” and “The Duty
of Children to their Parents” were two other strong-
holds, and the unfortunates sat on the hard stools and
listened to trash that didn’t concern them in the least.
If a prisoner does not wish to attend church he must put
in the church hour locked in his cell. The prison depart-
ment will entertain an application from a prisoner asking
for permission to change his religion, but will not receive
a petition to cancel his religious belief altogether,
although the average gaol sermon is a strong induce-
ment to throw the whole thing up. The collection plate
being absent, the scorpion tongue of the clergyman
is un oosed, no fear of losing the threepenny acting
as a brake. I learned an extract by heart. He was
an R.C. priest, eighteen stone in weight, yet always
discussing canonical penances. He delivered himself
thus: “ Yer name is a number, a grey jacket on your
shoulders, and your home is a prison cell, and it becomes
yez,” etc. I wished to take the church-hour in my cell
the following week, but an R.C. “ screw” advised me to
go. “ Diplomatic,” he said—so I went.


Bad Blood. Boils
Suffered Greatly. Skin in Terrible Condition. Blood Filled with
Impurities. All Remedies but One Failed.
Mr. H. Feder, of Prospect, South
Australia, sends us his photograph
and says:„
“ About two months ago I began to
feel badly all over. I was easily made
tired. I lost my appetite and was very
nervous. In a few days my arms and
neck were all broken out with large
boils. For weeks my suffering was
terrible. I tried remedy after remedy,
but without relief. A friend told me it
was not my skin but my blood that
needed help, and urged me to try Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla. He said he knew many
people who had been cured by it. I
bought a bottle, and I began to feel
better at once. My appetite returned,
,my food digested better, and I felt
greatly encouraged. Before the bottle
was all used my blood was pure and
the boils had entirely disappeared.”
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Boils, rashes, pimples, eruptions, eczema, etc., are but evidences of trouble
down deep in the blood. Don’t treat the skin. Treat the blood. Take Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla, the medicine that has been curing impure blood for 60 years.
When your blood is pure the skin will be smooth and healthy. And you will
feel brighter, better in every way.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla isn’t like other Sarsaparillas. It is made differently, con-
tains stronger medicines. Don’t experiment with imitations.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Makes the Blood Pure and Rich
Keep your bowels in good condition by taking Ayer’s Pdls.
On Our Selection, written by A. H. Davis
(“ Steele Rudd ”) and published by The
Bulletin Co., has earned the title of “the
jolliest book ever printed in Australia.”
There is laughter on every page; yet the
book remains grimly true to the facts. As
a picture of life on an Australian selection
it has never been surpassed. Since it was
published, little more than two years ago,
upwards of 12,000 copies have been sold at
the comparatively high price of 6s. —making
?VN
i
an Australian publishing: record. The reason of the sale is not far to seek : the
people who have bouprht the book know they have got value for their money ;
and they recommend it to others. The price is comparatively high because the book is expensive to
produce. It is well printed, and strongly bound in cloth in good style. There are numerous pictures
by such well-known illustrators as Mahony, Leist, Lambert, Fischer, Fullwood, and Vincent. From
cover to cover the book is Australian—the product of Aus-
tralian workmen. If it were produced by cheaper labour
in England., it would cost less, and could be sold at a
cheaper rate. The publishers prefer to employ Australian
labor only. When you buy On Our Selection you pay
a little more than you pay for an English book ; but
you get 100 times the Australian value. “ Steele Kudd’s ”
book has gone all over Australia, and wherever it has
gone it has become the treasure of a household, often
the delight of a township. People never leave off
reading it.until it is thumbed to rags; and then they
buy another copy. The characters of “Our Selection” —
'‘Old Dad,” “Joe,” “ Dave,” “Sarah,” and the rest
have become famous throughout the country ; and their imitation by weaker writers proves the force
of their grip on the public mind. Any bookseller will sell you the book ; or if you send a postal
order for 65., with Bd. postage, direct to The Bulletin office, it will be forwarded to any address
Though the cost of making
finest toilet soaps has nearly
doubled, the retail price,
ingredients, and superior
quality of Vinolia Soap re-
main unchanged. For the
complexion.
TAKE NOTICE.
Beecham’s Pills do not promise more than
they can perform, and they perform all they
promise. Beecham’s Pills are the safest and
most perfectly reliable medicine ever offered
to the Public for Biliousness and Sluggish
or Disordered Liver.*
They have no equal in cases of Indigestion and Loss of Appetite.
They are simply splendid as a Tonic and Restorative of the Nervous
System.
They are excellent in removing the causes of Sleeplessness.
They are remarkable in their purifying action on the Blood.
Their use brings the body to a high
condition of health and fitness and
fortifies it against disease. No other
preparation in the world has so many
valuable qualities, and as a general
or family medicine there is nothing
equal to
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
■ ■■■ . ' ■ '
Corner Georgs & Market Sts., SYDNEY
The Best Luncheon in Town from ONE SHILLING, served from 12 sharp till 2.30;
Dinner from 5.30 to 7.30, same price.
The Most Convenient Place for Ladies and Gentlemen visiting the Theatres to dine at.
H.B.— Visitors oijly pay for wbat tbcy actOally batfc.
TERMS. —The Convenient and Modern System of paying tor a
room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
Apartments : BEDROOM, Single, 3s. per day ; Double, 6s. per day.
ENGAGE ROOMS AT ROBERTS’ HOTEL, SYDNEY.
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
1
M.D., C.M., L.R.C.P.E., L R.C.S.E.,
L.F.F.S.G., L.M., etc.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great
Britain, Victoria, New South Wales,
etc.,
The Eminent Specialist, whose unparalleled success' in the Treatment of Blood and Nerve
Diseases has earned for, him a reputation unequalled by any other Specialist in Australia, may be consulted
daily personally or by letter, at “ ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 Elixabeth-st., Sydney. Old and Obsolete
Methods discarded. DR. MARTIN’S latest treatment has proved absolutely effective in all cases of Blood
Disease Nerve Affections, Paralysis, Loss of Energy, Lung, Heart, Skin, and all
Chronic Diseases of Men and Women. Ilis Consulting Rooms are replete with all the
latest and most scientific improvements in Electric Appliances, etc. Country Patients
treated by Correspondence at their own homes. Advice and Medicine, One
Pound All Sufferers should write for a copy' of Dr. Martin’s Latest Medical Work,
“THE ‘ KNOX-MERCER ’ TREATMENT IN DISEASE.” This work should find a place in every
household, as it contains a full and' explicit account of the Most Wonderful Treatment of the Present
lt has been the means of Curing Thousands who followed out the instructions contained
therein. This Marvellous Treatment Cleanses and Rejuvenates the Whole System, and is the Cheapest
Treatment in Existence, as nothing but the Book is required.
Price, 55.; by post, ss. 6d.
CONSULTING HOURS: 10 to 2 and 7 to 9 Daily.
“ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.


ASBESTOS . ..
BOILER COVERING
Has Proved its Economy Times without number.
PACKED WET, ready for use, in 3cwt. casks,
7 s., as., 9s. cwt.
PACKED DRY, in Bags, each lcwt., 125., 14s.
lbs. cwt.
It Saves 25 per cent, in Fuel.
perdriau & CO.
ONLY ONE ADDRESS—
-270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK:
Price 4s 6d, postage 6d.
CURIOUS
BOOKS
PHOTOS.
_ y
The Best Address for
English, French,
German
Books and Photos.
Apply—
-116 BOX, PARIS.
2/* for Oatal. and Miniat
Apply 116 BOX, PARIS.
LADIES.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address—L.D.l., 300 Coliins St., Melbourne
60
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
w_ c. ELDEIDGE &c CO
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STB, 13 JUT, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
SIMP
ROTHER
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
WORTH INGTON.
TRADE MARK.
*
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
For ail Services kept in Stock.
Send for Ccktalogue.
BENNIE, TEARE & CO Representatives.
nuciTioi
°<B
%
Stocks at Sydney, Melbourne, Perth, Coolgardie.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
llelvo fox* Sale a,n.cfl 'to ai*rive
74 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE : 435 Bourke Street.
PUMPING MACHINERY of every description, Woodworking Machinery, English and American Engines Boilers
Injectors, Reducing Valves, Steam Gauges, Steam Traps, Laundry Machinery, Painters’ and" Bakers’
Machinery, Engineers’ Machine Tools, Shafting, Plummer Blocks, Pulleys, Hangers, Couplings, Collars
Lubricating Oil, Brunton Pocket Transits, Shedd’s Electrical Fans, Hoisting Engines and Boilers.
StKS
‘■v.
Si
1#
PARKE & LACY CO.
LIMITED,
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENG IN ERRS,
Manufacturers and Importers of
MINING MACHINERY, STEAM ENGINES & BOILERS.
IJNT STOCK:
Knowles Steam Pumps, Ingersoll Rock Drills and Air Compressors,
Nagle Horizontal and Vertical Engines and Boilers, Pennsylvania Return
Tubular Boilers, Buffalo Blowers and Exhaust Fans, Morris Dredging
Pumps, Bullock Diamond Drills, Dodge Rock Breakers, Roger Rolls,
Dates Rock Breakers, Challenge Ore Feeders, Huntington Quartz
ls ’ and Iron " orking, and Laundry Machinery, and Mine and
Mill supplies.
And at San Francisco and London.
60 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Bushman
Harry Morant:
His ’Ventures
and Verses.
and Buccaneer
By FRANK RBNAR.
Price 1/1
Post
Free.
EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO.,
SYDNEY.^
Size, SJ" x 3.1" x 5"
We are Direct Importers
AND HAVE POE SALE—
Snow Duplex Pumps
(all sizes for all purposes),
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling
and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shaft-
ing, Hangers, Bearings, Collars, etc.
Engineers' Tools and Fittings, Valves,
Cocks, Gauges, etc., Cast, Tool and
Mining Steel, Wire Ropes and all Requi-
sites for Contractors, Engineers, Saw
Mills and Mining Proprietors.
R. L. Scrutton & Co. Ltd.
97 C3arence-st., Sydney.
A GO-AHEAD FIRM
& COBCROFT,
231 Sussex Street,
SYDNEY.
and Live Stock Agents,
1 I Auctioneers, Commission
1 and Produce Merchants.
Goods forwarded and received from this or any State. Asrents for rk o
AUCTIONS ANYWHERR celebrated Corn Cob Bacon,
THE “PANKLAST.”
The simplest
and most effec-
tive method for
dry crushing on
a small scale.
Invaluable to
Prospectors.
Made of Best
Hardened Steel.
KVv.
m
m
“ I regard it as
the best hand pul-
veriser which I have
ever seen.”
E. A. ASHCROFT,
Assayer,
Broken Hill Pty. Co.
No. 2 Power
Machine
wili crush 2
to 3cwt ore
per hour.
Full Particulars on application to
N. GUTIfRIDGE, Ltd., Sole Agents,
7l Clarence-st., SYDNEY.
NERVOUSNESS.
LOSS ot ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
* Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
cov-'red a SIMPLE MEANS ot SELF
CURE, ■will forward the same, free of
charge, to anyone interested.
Address! A. MINER. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Trewhella Bros.
PATENT
LOG AND STUMP JACKS.
x \
If you have Stumps, Roots, Stones, or Log's to clear, or
Threshers or Machinery to move, try these Jacks. They
are used by thousands throughout Australasia, and the
sales are rapidly increasing, which proves their value.
You can obtain them from the ironmonger with whom
you deal, or I will supply you direct.
The Melbourne and Sydney Prices are—
Lift, Tons Prick
Double Purchase Jack 4 65
6 75
2i 40
is
99
Single „ „
With AUTOMATIC LOWERINC CEAR, 5/ extra
Full Information and Trade Discounts from
W. TSEWHELLA, Trentliam, Victoria,
or H. HINDS, 17 Loftus St., Sydney.
