

CHRISTMAS
BULLETIN
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission as a Newspaper.
Vo) 24.—N0. 1243.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 10, 1903.
DEAKIN: “With the assistance of the Distillers Co. Ltd. the future of the Commonwealth
is assured.”
REID: “I see the D.C.L. people have enough good whisky in hand to flood the country. But
we want population to absorb it.”
BARTON: “In the meantime we can only do the best individually.”
THE
lismuts MMMSIITI
Angel Place,
2
SYDNEY
OF EDINBURGH
William St.,
MELBOUF
THE “BULLETIN” SAYS:
“THE DISTILLERS COMPANY Limited (D.O.L.
Whiskies), of Edinburgh, the people who make more
Whisky than anybody else in the world: —‘ This is a
huge concern, with a trading capital now of over
TWO MILLIONS AND A QUARTER.
Its plant and utensils alone, independent of buildings, are
set down at i 251,304, and its stocks now run up to
.£915 246, so that it doesn’t seem likely that the people
who call for ‘D.C.L.’ Whiskies will have to change their
brand yet awhile.
Proprietors of the Wor
famed Registered Brandi
“D.C.L.
Highland Cli
AND
Caledonian
WHISKIE
Of Great Age and Perfect P


THE BED PAGE.
Before the Bay
Here the first birds call at three o’clock, while night
is still in the sky. In the hush one cries out suddenly—
Tweet-tweet 1 You can fancy he sees dawn gliding over
the dark ridge. Another wakes, and gives doubtful
answer. Tweet-tweet ? Is it really dawn? Then the
whole grove is vocal. Twitter-twitter-tvntter-tyieet ! For
a moment there is quite a pother. Silly fellow to disturb
us for nothing! Dawn won’t be here for a long, long
time. You must have been dreaming. Tweet. So.,
heads to wings and silenoe for an hour.
J*
At last decennium’s rate of inorease, Australian
population will be doubled in something less than
fifty years. _ Loosely reckoning, and allowing for
“the declining birth-rate,” we shall have only
from eight to ten millions of inhabitants in 1053
unless the tide of immigration flows strongly.
Why the deprecatory “only”? For two
reasons. First, from the point of view of nation
and raoe, a large population is better than a smal
population, if the standard of individual happi-
ness be maintained. The resources of Australia
are vast enough to maintain fifty millions o:
people as comfortably as they maintain four mil-
lions. Second, seeing the risk of the British con-
nection, which exposes us at any moment to war
in a foreign quarrel,—and seeing the possi-
bility of attack by our Asiatic neighbours,—
the practical safety and the complete independ-
ence of Australia will not be assured until, if need
be, we can place in the field a million men trained
to bear arms. Australia’s present position is a
position of grave risk, even of grave danger.
Population for development, population for
defence Australia needs. And immigration has
ceased comparatively ; “the birth-rate is decreas-
ing.” Evidently individual policy does not
coincide with national policy. The European
surplus goes to the United States and to Canada:
in his family as in his finance, the Australian
dearly loves a deficit. If we want increase by
immigration, we' must make immigration profit-
able to the immigrant, and advertise the profit:
if we want an increased birth-rate, we must make
the increase not unprofitable to fathers and
mothers. The national edifice is built of indi-
vidual brioks.
There is but one numerous class of immigrants
that Australia can encourage at present: the
agricultural and stock-raising class. The “man on
the land ” is often and foolishly ridiculed ; but he
is in many national aspects the best man in the
country to-day, he will always remain in some
aspects the best man in the country. Why ?
Because, in the ultimate argument to subsistence,
he is self-sufficing : he can live without help if he
must: once established, he cannot be shaken by
panics of “the unemployed,” or by city fears
of starvation. It matters nothing that a large
part of the Australian agricultural class is seen
always dependent on Government help, whining
for Government subsidies. As long as that class
is faithful to the land and toils for the land, it
earns and deserves help to soften the early rigours
of settlement in this country. And there is no
class that so well repays help.
The plea is familiar, but it is not half familar
enough. More and more the huge, overgrown
cities of Australia tend to concentrate in them-
selves the ostensible national life and the profits
of national life. More and more residence in the
cities is made attractive, and life on the land is
niade intolerable. Every atom of governmental
influence should be thrown in the opposite direc-
tion. Decentralisation, and again decentralisa-
tion, and again and again decentralisation, until
for the mass of the community the Bush has
ceased to be a word of terror, and life in the
Bush has been made on the whole preferable to
life in Melbourne or'Sydney or Brisbane.
The way to encourage agricultural immigrants ?
Free land to the cultivator—and care that the gift
is not barren. Every settled family is a new
contributor to national taxation, a fresh pillar of
national stability. And, jf fertile and rain-blessed
lands grow scanty, national irrigation and a
graduated land-tax to pay for it.* ~
J*
The pulses of earth are at ebb ; you can feel
them slacken and fail. And now through the trees, a
moment ago as still as if they were dead indeed, comes
the dawn-wind, the last sigh of the defeated and retreat-
ing darkness. A breath, not a gust : the tops of the ;
young gums rustle, shivering as if sentient. And over
the east the pallor and promise of day. sow the
birds stir earnestly ; now they are loud awake, and you
see wings fluttering vaguely against the glimmering sky.
And from ground, and.bush, and trte begins to exhale the
sweet odour flf Australian morning.
Incidentally, the policy of settling the land at
any cost so long as the settlement is real and pro-
ductive, will aid the natural increase of popula*
tion. In his ingenious and laborious essay on
The Decline in the Birth-Rate of New South
Wales, the N.S.W. Statistician drew from
mathematical data an incongruous and invalid
“conclusion.” He wrote that “the condition
of affairs disclosed ” as to the limitation of fami-
lies “arises from a direct reversal of the ordinary
canons of morality.” The obvious answer is that
there are no canons of morality that apply; and
that if ordinary conditions of birth have now
become extraordinary, we must seek to reverse
them, by a reference to actual facts, not to
imaginary morals.
For the so-called “divine sanction” for large
families has long been held chimerical; and there
is nothing to put in its place but the assertion of
profit to the community. As between community
and individual, the community has first to prove
the profit to itself of an unrestricted birth-rate,
and then it has to prove the profit to every
individual. Even on the former ground the
case is doubtful. There is no profit to the
community in the birth of children from broken
fathers and worn mothers, faster than the,
means of decent subsistence increase. And
if it be said that, in New South Wales or in
Australia, a decent subsistence is possible to the
ordinary family of a dozen or so, then denial and
I defence of the denial come in the declining birth-
rate itself. Heads of families are evidently
agreed that it is injudicious for them to,
continue on the path of the pioneering patriarchs
and moral expostulation is fruitless. Besides,
moral expostulation has no warranty. It cannot
be shown, by any ethical argument whatever, that
the individual is morally obliged to conform to the,
supposed standards of the community unless it
pays him so to conform; and, in the present,
case, the proof of non-payment is the non-
conformity.
Morality, for the community, is what increases
the community’s happiness. Morality, for the
individual, is what increases the individual’s
happiness. Often the two standards are in con-
flict, real or apparent; and the only logical proof
of the individual’s obligation to subordinate his
standard to the standard of the community, comes
in the demonstration that on the whole and in
the end it will pay him to do so. That is a
demonstration which cannot be made in the case
of the declining birth-rate.
The reason why it cannot will come in con-
sideration of other of the N.S.W. Statistician’s
conclusions. He declares that “The existing
facts are compatible with only one explanation,
viz., that in the years following 1880 the
art of applying artificial checks to conception
was successfully, learnt, and has continued in
operation to this day.” Taking this literally,
it is clear that the expression is not exaot.
Taking this generally, it is clear that there are
other explanations of the facts. For one thing,
“the declining birth-rate” is not a phenomenon
confined to Australia. All over the world a
similar tale is told as civilisation proceeds.
France is a familiar example. But there is com-
plaint in Britain; there is complaint and
alarm in America. The N.S.W. Statistician
declines to discuss “ the effect of cerebral develop-
ment upon fecundity,” yet there are the best of
reasons for believing that, in proportion as the
brain of a nation is developed, the body loses
strength. And the development of the brain in
the stress of modern life, acting directly upon
the stream of population, acts also indirectly.
“The Russian cradle is never empty,” wrote
W. T. Stead ; and Russia is sunk in ignorance and
religion. But whpn education sharpens insight,
when religion disappears in the light of reason,
men measure themselves with their share of the
world as they never do in barbarism. They look
before and after : the mythical heaven is closed,
and they set themselves to make the best of the
actual earth that contains the whole destiny of
which they are assured.
It is quite useless, in this predicament, for
rhoralists or statisticians to point the mass of
civilised people to the “true greatness ” of their
community or nation as a motive of self-sacrifice.
Patriotism is indeed one motive of civilised effort,
and it is a valid motive as long as patriotism
pays by the satisfaction of instinct or by
practical, benefit; but there are many other
motives in play,/ And civilisation possibly in-
clines to make men more selfish instead of less :
they demand a greater or a more definite reward
for a plain sacrifice of self.
Take a common case. Smith-Jones is employed
in the N.S.W. Statistician’s office. He has a
Balary of £3OO a year, and supports a wife and
three or four children in reasonable comfort. He
has time and money for cultivating his civilised
tastes ; his home is sufficiently pleasant; his chil-
dren are well-dressed and fitly educated according
tomiddle-class standards. ButSmith-Jonesand his
wife know perfectly well that if they set out to imi-
tate the parents in N.S.W. Israel from 1850 to 1870,
who had average families of eight.or nine children
when the wife was married before her twenty-
sixth year, their household state would descend
at once to something very fike misery. What is
the use of his superior officer quoting alleged
“canons of morality ” to Smith-Jones ? What is
the use of directing Smith-Jqnes to the “true
greatness” of Australia as a guide to conduct ?
Will moral maxims and national ideals help to
feed and clothe and educate and launch a
dozen little Smith-Joneses ? Smith-Jones and
Mrs. are convinced that they will not;
and unless you raise his salary the Smith-
Jones birth-rate will continue to decline. This is
regrettable from the national point of view ; but
from Smith-Jones’s point of vidw “the decline”
is laudable and moral. And Smith-Jones is right:
you cannot prove otherwise.
So we see that the N.S.W. Statistician’s con-
clusion is superficial. “ The checks ” exist; but
what is behind the checks? A stern adminis-
tration of the Customs, such as the Birth-Rate
Commission is said to be recommending, will
make practically no difference. There are more
ways of not-killing the cat than by not-choking
her with cream. What you have to do is to
improve the living chance of Smith-Jones and his
congeners; to give him the certainty of providing
for unlimited offspring; and—if you like—
to increase his vitality, to reduce his nervous and
pecuniary expenditure, and to content him with a
simpler standard of comfort and life. The birth-
rate problem can be solved only by solving the
problem of true national prosperity. That is to
say, it can be solved by taking parents out
of fevered cities and settling them on the
land, where at all events a pig can be killed
and a cow can be milked and corn and
pumpkins can be grown, and where the fashion
in clothes is of comparatively little consequence.
It can be solved by ending, the loan-tribute and
living within our income. It can be solved by
reducing or abolishing the expenditure on six
Governors, six too-elaborate Parliaments, and six
agents or agents-general. It can be solved by de-
voting national resources toindustrialdevelopment ;
by cutting-off unreinunerative expenditure and
stopping unnecessary taxation. And that is the
only way in which it can be solved ; for the cam-
paign against “artificial checks,” however de-
sirable, is bound to be comparatively bootless.
J*
Dawn, in a kirtle of rose and a cap of purple, with all
her choristers to usher her—and the jovial milkman
whistling on the step. They tell me he has a whole tribe of
children, and hearty little ragamuffins are those I see.
He has solved the problem in his plain, arithmetical way—
at fourpence a quart, two quarts for eightpence. You
can’t solve it by the differential calculus of luxury in
large houses. Corollary : the simple life means the com-
pound birth-rate.
&
And now—alack !—Citizens John See and the
rest have added to the difficulties of the problem I
Do their left hands know what their right hands
are doing ? For, look you, the rate is of babies,
but the birth depends upon the mother. The
simple life is essential for mothers above all,
if population is to increase as we wish it.
From the community’s point of view they
are vehicles of reproduction and little more.
It is not essential that they should be one
whit more. If they will only be good mothers,
the best possible mothers, they fulfil the
greatest service of which they are capable. Noth-
ing matters but the children. The children, well
born and properly cared for, demand the whole of
their time, every atom of their energy. And here
have our mothers been burdened with the business
of government, the responsibility of the vote !
Yet it is known that every new complexity of
life, every fresh strain on the organism, increases
the risk of child-bearing, decreases, the chance .of
handing down a legacy of strong vitality to one’s
■children. Mrs. Smith-Jones is expected by her
husband to be a good housekeeper and an agree-
able companion. She is expected by her friends
to be well-dressed, sociable, and entertaining.
She is expected by the N.S.W. Statistician to
rise to the high moral plane of 1850-1870, and to
permit him to tally 9’667 children on her account
during a period of fifteen years or so. Those
children may fairly expect her to care for them
until they are old enough to care for them-
selves ; and 9’667 are not reared through
teething and measles and school-days with-
out some trouble and anxiety. To crown all
Citizens John See and the rest expect her to
vote!
But if she is to vote rightly, she must take a
continuous interest in politics. She should
know precisely who are the directors of
insurance companies, and who are mem-
t)6rs of Ministries, and what hapoens when
their capacities clash. Luckily Mrs. Smith-Jones •
has sense. _ Taking her by and large, she relies
upon her instincts, and uses her reason to Vote
as her husband directs her. Nevertheless, in so
far as woman’s suffrage is effective, it is a clear
menace to the birth-rate.
J* '
The sun ! If the gums were beautiful in the dawn,
they are more beautiful now, with the level rays
sparkling on their leaves, so finely, delicately shaped.
How admirably that grove decorates the ridge ! AH
gums growing naturally have that decorative quality
in mass and line they seem to be just what the
landscape demands. Try and re-arrange them, and you
will rarely convince yourself that you can arrange them
better. So beautiful is Australian foliage, and-so rare! y
seen adapted in industrial decoration. Yet... “let;
there be no flower in your meadows that does not wreath 4
its tendrils around your pillows, no little leaf in you.'r
Titan forests that does not lend its form to design, no
curving spray of wild rose or briar that does not live for-
ever in carven arch or window of marble, no bird in your
air that is not giving the iridescent wonder of its colour,
the exquisite curves of its wings in flight, to make more
precious the preciousness of simple adornment ’’ It
was finely said for America: is it not profoundly said
for us ?
J*
A word for the birth-rate before election-
day, now that we have seen how the birth-
rate is wound in and out and around bv
the skein of politics—a word of suggestion
to woman voters. One way to choose good
legislators is to consider candidates in their
approximation to ideal husbands. This is
suggested cautiously, with any number of reser-
vations, because women frequently choose (or are
ohosen by) un-ideal husbands, though it may be
argued plausibly that they choose (or are chosen
by) the best that the husband-sex provides. llow
does a woman choose a husband?—she with
an instinctive eye on the birth-rate, per-
haps to herself unawares;. Is it not on
the mam ground of youth and strength,
health and virility ? Undoubtedly. Good looks
count, but they count less than John Wilkes’s
fiery force; money counts, yet most of us are
married without it.
Look around ! See the fat old clubmen candi-
dates, the bald old business-men candidates, the
tired old political-hack candidates. What honest
woman would not shudder to marry them? Then
let her not vote for them. Those old men, nine
times in ten, are the men who “ live on the game ”
—they are sources of political pollution, centres
of political corruption—their “ souls,” in the
aesthetic sense, are dead; their “consciences,” in
the theological sense, are dead too; their intellects
and emotions are dead; they are all dead
except for the habit of selfishness, the desire to
turn all things, including Australia, to personal
profit. “Everyman over forty is a scoundrel,”
wrote G. B. Shaw the other day. Every poli-
tician over fifty assuredly is. He has lost too
many illusions, and he has found too many fat
pickings on the bones of legislative patriotism.
Vote for Youth! Youth is impulsive, often
unbalanced ; but it is unspoiled, ardent, eager to
do right when it gets a chance and ashamed to do
wrong when led into temptation. It has three
of Nietzsche’s four cardinal virtues—sincerity,
generosity, and courage. And if in Australia it
fail in courtesy, it atones in chivalry, whicli is often
better. Vote for Youth ! Sometimes you may go
wrong, but not often : for one like Meagher,
you can find a hundred men like Higgs. There is
no such virtue in Age as is commonly imagined.
It is as apt to err through timidity as Youth by
excess ; and almost always it has a slacker hold of
principle, makes a greater concession to the un-
clean. Doctrines and parties count, but they do
not count all the way. No adherence to party
should save an old rascal from perdition. Give
Young Australia your vote. Youth holds liobe
and the future: vote in the present for the
future, not for the past—and, other things reason-
ably equal, vote for Youth.
Breakfast? But certainly. What an image of Youth
girding its loins 3 r ou get at breakfast! How decorative
is porridge, and how sustaining ! What noble harmonies
of colour in eggs-and-bacon ! “ The secret of life is art,”
quotha? Bosh 1 The secret of art is life.
A.G.R.
* [Tiib Bulletin’s view somewhat differs from the
above. The N.S.W. selector already, to all intents and
purposes, gets free land ; the money received from him
by the State goes back to him; every penny, in reductions
of railway rates. His produce is carried at one-twelfth
the rate charged to the manufacturer. He gets his roads,
bridges, etc., out of loan money (the town worker pays
half the interest), or out of revenue (the town worker
provides half the revenue). The town worker pays for
his own local works and helps to pay for those of the coun-
tryman. Unpayable railways, cheap money, practically
free land, a ridiculously large share of Parliamentary
representation, grants of seed wheat-all these, and
many other things, have been tried to prop up the agri-
cultural industry in barren N.S.W. And yet the handful of
local manufactures produce more wealth in a year than
all the agricultural industry of the State. Nobody
who knows the far-back country has much faith in
irrigation ; the lack of .water to irrigate with is too pro-
nounced. If N.S.W. was decentralised, and the farmer
got free land, but was expected to pay for' his own local
works and pay for the carriage of his produce exactly
what it cost, his position would probably be worse than
it is now. On a great part of N.S.W. no price that the
State could afford to pay would fix settlers permanently.
-—Ed. B.j
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
(registered) THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC REMEDY
For INFLUENZA, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, and ALL AFFECTIONS of
the THROAT and LUNGS, and the PREVENTION of CONSUMPTION.
ABK FOR HUDSON'S, and take m substitute. AN ideal REMEDY,
ov
Containing no Cocaine or other Poisonous Drugs.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROAT, LOSS
OF VOICE.
The “Australasian Medical Gazette” says:
“ Of great service in affections of the voice and throat
I3VT TINS, 1/S.
May be taken daily by old and young. Their antiseptic properties prevent abnormal fermentation of the food,
and are thus helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia. Sold by all Chemists. Tins, 1/6. Agents in all the Australian
States and New Zealand. SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 & 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
Sole Manufacturer: G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland*
Book trade Hdoertisements.
THE LATEST FICTION BY THIS WEEK’S HAIL
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Rarintr Onnld flhris nf nil Snvfo Qo .
Gilbert, The'lsland of Sorrow, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Sergeant, Cynthia’s Ideal, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Tilton, Miss Petticoats, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Baring Gould, Chris of all Sorts, 3s 6d, postage 6d
Le Queux, Secrets of the Foreign Office, 2s 6d &3s 6d p 6d
Quiller Couch, Hetty Wesley, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d. ’ ''
DAINTY BOOKS FOR XMAS PRESENTS—
New Century Library, on India Paper, Various Binding, 2s 6d, 3s, 3s 6d, & 4s.
The Pensees Series, 3*in. x 4Jin. ; Cloth, 2s 6d ; Limp Leather, 3s.
The Canterbury Poets, 4in. x sin. ; Cloth, Is; French Morocco, 3s.
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) & at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane & London
Clk Bulletin Books for Australia!
flt Dawn and Dusk
By VICTOR J. DALEY, Price, 4s. 6d.
fair Girls and Gray fiorses, with Other
Uerses v
By WILL H. OGILVIE. Price, 4s. 6d.
flearts of Gold and Other Oerses
By WILL H. OGILVIE.
Just published. In handsome■ cloth. With Eleven
Illustrations. Price 4s. 6d.
maoriland and OtDer Uerses
By ARTHUR H. ADAMS. Price, 4s. 6d.
Cbe Bulletin Reciter
In handsome doth, with fourteen illustrations.
Price, 4s. 6d.
On Our Selection
By ARTHUR DAVIS (“ STEELE RUDD.”)
TTANDSOMBTjY bound in fawn cloth, with red edges
nnH decorated cover. With eighty illustrations.
and decorated cover.
Price, 6s.
Our Hew Selection
By ARTHUR DAVIS (“STEELE RUDD.")
A SEQUEL to On Our Selection. Handsomely hound
in cloth ; with a hundred illustrations. I'rice, 6s.
Castro's East Sacrament and Other
Stories
By ALBERT DORRINGTON. Price, 4s. 6d.
Such is Life!
BY JOS. FURPHY ("TOM COLLINS”).
In cloth, decorated. Price, 4s. 6d.
Che Bulletin Story Booh
A COLLECTION of Sixty-two Stories, Storiettes, and
Literary Sketches reprinted from the best that have
appeared in The Bulletin. Price, 4s. 6d.
For complete list see THE BULLETIN BOOK
CIRCULAR, post-free to any address.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Ltd.,
214 George-Street, Sydney, Australia.
OBLATION
Verses by A. G. STEPHENS, with
Illustrations and Decorations by NOR-
MAN LINDSAY. Pkice, 3/6. Edward,,
Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Wholesale Agents.
A SHANTY ENTERTAINMENT, By “MILKY WHITE.”
A back-block story carrying with it much of the author’s best bush verse, to be published not later than
December 31. An Edition de Luxe (50 signed copies, numbered, with reproduction of pen and ink
portrait of the author of Percy Lindsay) is in preparation. A few copies not yet bespoken ; price, 10s. 6d.
Orders booked by Ford and Taylor, printers, &c., 377 Collins-street, Melbourne.
SYDNEY HARBOR
By E. d. BRADY.
Sixty-jive Pages of delightful reading
matter, illustrated by 100 full-page Views
and Dainty Vignettes, with a Panorama
of the Harbor, in colors.
Handsomely bound in purple and gold, with fancy cord. Price, 3s. All Booksellers, or the Builder Printery,
527 Kent Street, Sydney.
A HANDSOME SOUVENIR OR CHRISTHAS GIFT FOR FRIENDS ABROAD.


WHAT USERS THINK ABOUT
SILVER STAR STARCH.
A LAVERS, 25 Macquarie St., Prahran, writes :
r have much pleasure in recommending your “Silver
* .foMrrh Without doubt it is the best. I have never
known it to stick to the iron, and it gives a splendid
I will use no other.
M M PHILLIPS, 299 King St., Melbourne, writes :
I have been using your “ Silver Star " Starch for the last
.hlht vears, and it has given me every satisfaction, and I
can safely recommend it to anyone, for its quality is
unequalled.
Bendi: o Benevolent Asylum,
17/11/’O2.
In reply to yours of 7th inst., I have tried “Silver
qfar .. starch in the laundry at this institution, and it has
“; ven satisfaction, so much so that I use it only now.—
Yours truly, (Sgd.) J. S. McILROY.
Mrs. TAYLOR, Rita Laundry, Drummond St., Carlton,
writes:
I have used your "Silver Star” Starch for the last
three years, and have been so pleased with the result
that now I would use no other.
Mrs. A. LAUGHTON, 75 JefTcott St., W. Melbourne,
writes:
Havin'' used your “ Silver Star” Starch in pretty large
quantities, I myself reckon it far superior to any that I
have used. I would highly recommend it to all laundry
people and private also.
Mrs. E. ROWE, 9 William-st., Balaclava, writes:
I have us ed “ Silver Star ” Starch for over eight years,
and I can recommend it as the best starch I have ever
used. I have tried all other starches, but none of them
can equal the “ Silver Star ” Starch.
Mrs. A. HARDING, 30 Browning-st., S. Yarra, writes :
I wish to state that I have used your “ Silver Star ’
Itarch for a considerable time, and have found it a beauti.
11l starch, and I am well pleased with it.
Mrs. M. PARKER, 4 Baygwater-st., Kensington, writes :
Could not obtain satisfactory results from any starch
until I tried yours. It does all that is required of it. I
V iave used it now for 10 years, and would use no other.
Mrs. K. BEHRENDT, 66 Wright-st„ E. Prahran, writes :
Having used your “Silver Star’’ Starch for this six
years, I can strongly recommend it, as I am quite sure
there are no others to equal it,
Mrs. C. PARKER, 10 Malmsbury-st., Auburn, writes:
I have used “Silver Star” Starch for the past six
years, and found it superior to any other I have eve r
used. I may also mention that I gained third prize at
Bendigo Gold Jubilee Exhibition with it.
Mrs. E. WEBB, Albion Laundry, 6 Oapel-st., W.
Melbourne, writes:
I have used “ Silver Star ” Starch for six years, and
have always found it superior to any other, also the thin
boiling starch, with great satisfaction.
Mrs. M. NYEMAN, 89 Kerr-st., Fitzroy, writes:
After having used your “Silver Star” Starch for a
number of years, it gives me great pleasure to let you
know that I am thoroughly satisfied with the results
obtained, and consider it the best starch I have ever
used, and shall continue to use it in connection with my
laundry work.
Mrs. SHEPHERD, North Fitzroy, writes :
I have used your “ Silver Star ” Starch in connection
with my business for the last three years, and have
always found it to give every satisfaction, and to anyone
in need of real good starch, I say “ Silver Star” Starch is
the best.
Mrs. P. H. ROWE, Tyne Laundry, Dover-road, Williams-
town, writes:
■i J.* lere * )v certify that I have used the white and colored
Silver Star” Starch constantly for 12 years, and I re-
commend it to all our friends. I will still continue to use
it, as it is the best I have ever used in my laundry. It dots
not stick to the iron, and it makes the shirts and collars
as stiff as a board, and puts on a highly smooth gloss.
Mrs. M. ROWELL, 9 Little John-st., Windsor, writes :
I have tried the “ Silver Star” Starch manufactured by
you, and have been using it for the past 12 years in my
laundry, and find that it is certainly the best starch in
the world.
Mrs. M. WRIGHT, 29 Stephenson-st., South Richmord,
writes :
Silver Star ” Starch, and I am greatly pleased
with it. It works more easily, goes further, does the
work better, and does not stick to the iron. Also I have
turned my work out better since I used “Silver Star”
Starch.
LAUNDRESS ( excitedly ) : “ Hi ! Mister, don’t you go sticking to that iron!”
THEIVING THEOPHILUS (gaily') : “An’ wy not, Missus? I ain't no bloomin STLVLR SIATI STARCH !"
Leading House for Sporting Goods and Tobacco!
MEN’S TREBLE-SEWN LEATHER
CRICKET BALLS, s£oz.-Won-
derful Value.
Is, Is 9d, 2s 6d, 3s 6d each
DUKE’S LEATHER BALLS—
-ss, 5s 6d, 6s 3d, 7s 6d
WISDEN’S LEATHER BALLS-
-4s 3d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d
COMPO. BALLS—
Is, Is 4d, 2s 3d, 3s, 4s 3d
BOYS* COMPOS.— sd, 6d, 9d
BOYS’ \No. 0 1 2 3 4 5 6
BATSJ 6d, 9d, Is, Is 3d, ls6d, 2s, 2*6d
BOYS’ BATS, \ No. 3 4 *6
C ane _ / 3s 6d, 4s, 4s 9d, 5s 3d
MEN’S BATS, \ss 6d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d
All Cane— J9s 6d, 10s 6d, 11s 6d, 12s 6d
MEN'S CANE1 14s 6 d, 15s, 15s 6d, 16s 6d
and bSI- i7s 6d ’ 18s6d ’ 2 ° 3 ’ 253
Send for Oatalogpue, Pcet Free—full
list of Bats, by all Best Makers.
BOYS’ STUMPS-
6d, Is, Is 6d, 2s, 2s 9d, 3s 9d
MEN’S STUMPS, Brass Tops, Steel Shod—
6s, 7s 9d, 9s 6d, 10s 6d, 14s 6d set
LEG GUARDS—
Boys’, 4s Od. ss, 6s 6d pair
Men’s, 5s lid, 6s 6d, 7s 9d, 9s 6d, 12s 6d
14s 6d, 16s 6d pair
GAUNTLETS—
Boys’, 3s 6d, 5s 6rl pair
Men’s, ss, 6s 6d, 7s 9d, 9s 6d, 10s 6d pair
MATS, Best Qua’ity, 80s and 95s
CRICKET SETS—
Boys’, Is 6d, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, ss, 7s 6d, 10s,
Men’s, 335, 37s 6d, 64s Cd, 88s 6d, 103 s set
Tennis Racquets.
FULL SIZE.
M
Crft&Y
3s Gd
M
tIANbICAP
5a
STANbAftb
7s 3d
Ascot
2s 6d
The above are a new departure in
the Racquet Trade, and the best value
ever offered to the public.
AYRES’, 6s 6d, 8s 9d, 12s 6d, 16s 6d, 19s 6d, 24s
SLAZENGER'S, 13s 6d, 17s, 20s, 255, 30s.
TENNIS SETS, Double, for four players—
30s, 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s, 80s, 90s, 100 s, &c.
Tennis Balls.
Grey Regulation
Covered Regulation ...
SLAZENGER’S Grey Re
SLAZENGER’S Covered
AYRES’ Grey Reg.
AYRES’ Covered ...
AYRES’ Champion...
... . 4s Gd doz.
... 9s 6d ~
... 10s
... 16s
... 8s 6d ,i
12s 6d, 15s „
... lGs „
TAYLORS,
Lawn Bowls.
TAYLOR’S 3rd quality. No. 3 Bias-
Ivory Mounted 16s 6d, 18s 6d
TAYLOR’S, Ist quality, No. 3 Bias—
Ivory Mounted 20s, 24s
TAYLOR'S, extra quality, No. 3 Bias—
Ivory Mounted ... ... ... 24s
Every Bowl tested and stamped by the
N.S. W. Bowling Association.
Remittance, including: payment for
freight, must accompany each order.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, SYDNEY.


-A.. SAUKrDERS for CHRISTMAS PRESENTS
A. SAUNDERS.
High Grade Ladies’ Solid Silver
WATCH, Full Jewelled, £-plate,
80s, £2, £2 10s, £4, £4 10s ; Solid Gold,
£3, £3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5 10s, £6 10s,
£7 10s, £8 10s, £lO 10s, £l5, £2O.
Guaranteed 2,3, 4,5, and 6 Years.
«KMMMMt-GCCC G-CCS)
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Long Gold MUFE CHAINS in
Every Style and Pattern Made,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5, £slos,
£6, £7, £B, £lO.
15ct. Gold, Opal, Half-hoop BRACELET, 13 Opals, £l2 10s; with
Diamonds, £l5; Larger Diamonds, £2O ; 9et. Gold, 11 Opals, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Pure Silver First-class HAIRBRUSH, Beautiful White
Bristles, in Silk-lined Cases, 30s ; Other Styles, 15s 6d, 21s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold. Diamond Cluster and Pearls, £5 ;
Diamond and Rubies, £3los.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold 2-bar BROOCH, Red or Blue Stone
Centre, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold 3-bar BROOCH, with Double-cut
Diamond Centre, £2 10s ; Larger Diamonds,
£4 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Two Heart Amethyst and Love Knot
BROOCH, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Floral Forget Me Not BROOCH, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
3Set. Gold 2-bar Opal and 4 Diamond BROOCH
£2 10s. Very Effective.
A. SAUNDERS.
Very Choice Pure Silver-plated, Silk-lined JEWEL CASE,
22s 6d ; Other Styles, 17s 6d, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Pure Silver-mounted, Polished Crocodile Skin
PURSE, 30s ; Other Styles, 10s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255.
Tn Morocco, same mounts, 22s (id.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted SHOE DIET and HOOK, in Silk-
lined Case, 7s 6d ; Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
M
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold PIN, CHAIN,
and Photo. CHARM,
8s 6d. To hold Midget
Photos.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Pearl Star
PENDANT or BROOCH,
Very Neat, £B.
9ct. Gold Heart and
Dumbbell, Chased, 12s
6d ; 15ct. Gold, 22s 6d.
9ot. Gold LINKS, 12s 6d;
loot. Gold, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Shield LINKS,
22s 6d ;
..x‘. 1.6
=1“ (:16 “ (a
. 7"» ‘b‘rlJL‘T/Iggi
; s \av1w‘ v“; 2
2&0? 1? {F m 4&9}. 29 E3 :"
O 3M, 91 ﬁ‘c'; ' “4“,?"
Wig-13w ﬁfﬁé’é“ 4/ Mg Afr
/ \"‘"- .. ~. 5 .‘-'r\ '
1’ \ 7' «\z 6 ,» .. :rf?
(1 t j.“- , “:1 $39373: ;
4’ :2 741,, .z'v‘er 4‘? z
( .3 ‘JS’Qﬁfy - ‘5‘" ‘i f
i W» 1W; t
/’ Eﬂ :a. $5». . irat- pz I
I flu g,§f‘;'r.‘, (Ff -,- ‘ ‘ 3- > 1‘ ‘z I
ﬁms'ﬂﬁ'ﬁ @3553” ? 1‘ m"; 6a.
{Elev—k“ ' ,ckrégm
213ng M. Lug
is ‘23?” .‘V ‘r ‘, “3": ﬂ “I 4'.H.- .
03%“ C /“I' L‘ Hug?) J _9‘ I};
3')» ‘ V J ('0‘ )
A. SAUNDERS.
Handsome Gilt Bedroom CLOCK, Splendid
Timekeepers, 15s; Other Styles, 8s 6d,
10s 6d, 20s, 255.
10/6
Pure Silver, largo size, HAIR BRUSH,
extra long hand-drawn bristles, beauti-
fully chased and embossed, 10s 6d.
Other styles, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255, 80s. Post free.
10/6
8/6
8/6
f
lr
gﬁ)‘ y” :
it‘ffﬁ-‘f U - ‘
t " ' I v If” ,I‘
..'.'.".‘..‘*V VJ h I?"
. .' t I ”A I V ‘
L'." '75)”; ‘
L d a £ e Silver-mounted Morocco Leather PUBSE and CABD
oAHJi combined, 8s 6d ; other styles, 4s 6d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s 6d
15s, 20s, to £2. ’
a ■ *
A. SAUNDERS.
Bamboo Gold BRACELETS, all the Latest Styles and Fashions.
Prices According to Width, 255, 80s, £2, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s • Isct Gold
£3, £4, £5, £6, £7. ’
A. SAUNDERS.
Diamond BRACELET, 15ct. Gold, 3 Pure Double-cut Diamonds
with Safety Chain, £5 ; Diamond and 2 Rubies, £4.
o
-
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted GLOVE STRETCHER, SHOE HOOK
GLOVE HOOK, and SHOE LIFT, in Nice Leather Roll, 255.’
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s WALLET and POCKETBOOK, All Improvements,
Silver-mounted, as above, 12s 6d ;
Without Shield, 10s 6d.
Initials Nicely Chased, Is Extra.
Other Styles, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255, 30s.
Lord Watch
The
tweerMe
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Mizpah Heart
CHARM.
Extra Large, 8s 6d ;
Smaller, 4s 6d. 5s 6d.
6s 6d. '
18et. Gold Buttercup Pure
Diamond KING,
£3, £4, £5.
Gent.'s 9ct. Gold
Amethyst KING, 25s ;
loot. Solid Gold, £2, £2los.
Plain Signet RINGS,
9ct. Gold, 20s, 25s ;
15ct. Gold, 30s, 85s ;
18ct. Gold, £2, £2 10s.
18ct. Pure Double-cut
Diamonds and Rubies,
or Sapphires, £3los, £4.
£4los; 5 Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Bushman’s and Miner’s Pocket Compass,
a Boon to Tourists, 10s 6d ; Similar,
2s 6d, 3s Od, 4s 6d, 6s 6d, 12s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’sPolished Crocodile Leather
CIGARETTE CASE, PureSUve?
Mounts, 17s 6d; Other Styles fis
6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s od, 16s, StOa^Oa.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold BOOT,
CHAIN, and PIN,
6s 6d.
Metal Pin, 5s 6d.
Latest Fashion Pearl, Red, or
Blue Stone Set PHOTO. PEN-
DANTS, 15s 6d, 17s 6d ; Extra
Large, 20s ; Other Styles. 6s 6d,
7s 6d, 10s 6d, 15s, 255.
15ct. Gold HEART.
Double-cUt Diamond,
30s, 40s;
Ruby or Sapphire, 26a.
18ct. Gold 6 Opel
RING, £2 10* J
Size Larger, £B los
15ct. Gold, Diamond
and 2 Rubies or Sap-
phires, £2 10s ; 8 Dia-
monds, £3.
18ct. Gold Half-hoop,
5 Double-cut Diamond
RING, £5; Larger Dia-
monds, £6, 4'7 10s, £B,
£lO, £l5, £2O.
Nickel
20s.
Silver,
355.
A. SAUNDERS.
Reliable Knockabout WATCHES. 12s M is.
17s 6d, 20s, 255, 27s 6d, 80s ; FiwUtoss gil™
Hunter English Lever, £3, £3 10s, U U 10s l-
£o ; Gold, £Blos to £6O.
A. SAUNDERS.
Friendship Gold Motto BROOCH, 20s ; Mot.
Gold, 355 ; 18ct. Gold, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold CHAINS, Single or Double, £2los, £B, £Blos, U.
£4los, £5 ; 15ot. Gold, £5 10s, £6, £6 10s, £7, £B, £lO.
Solid Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
SdliSflisßMTOiiiiflismMHmminimifii
r
r
A. SAUNDERS.
15ot. Gold BRACELET, Pearls, 8 Sapphires, and 2 Diamonds,
£l2 10b. Very Effective.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ot. Gold 8-bar Pearl-set Buckle BROOCH, 85s.
3
a
A. SAUNDERS.
16ot. Gold Crescent and Spray Pearl BROOCH,
£6los. Yery Neat ana Attractive.
A. SAUNDERS. . .
2-bar Floral BROOCH, with Diamond ana
Blue or Bed Stones, 22s 6d.
A* SAUNDERS. _
Forget-me-not Floral Design Heart ana nen
Gold Broooh, 12s 6d.
Baud RING, with
Name, 9ct. Solid Gold.
13s 6d, 10s; 15ct. Gold,
20s, 255; 18ct. Gold,
255, 80s. £2.
18ct. Gold Buckle, Dia-
mond and 2 Bubies, o
Sapphires. £2 10s;
8 Diamonds, £4-
Hand-made WEDDING KINGS and
Solid Gold, U 6d, 10s 6d each :15ct. Gold. E>aD-
Heavy, 255; Met. Gold, 20s; Extra Heavy, 80s,
40s, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS,
Sydney’s Leading’ Jeweller & Optician
809, 811, 813, 815, 817 GEORGE-STREET, OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION, SYDNEY


Beauty, splendor, elegance 1 Rich
and heavy braids! Long and flowing
tresses!
Ayer’s Hair Vigor feeds the hair
and makes it grow long and heavy It
stops falling of the hair, completely
cures dandruff, and keeps the scalp
clean and healthy.
As a dressing for the hair you will
certainly be greatly pleased with it.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
You can always rely upon it for
restoring color to your gray hair all
the full, rich color it had in early life.
There is no doubt about this. You
need have no fear of being disap-
pointed, We speak with a knowledge
that covers over fifty years of experi-
ence with this valuable preparation.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Make sure that you get the gen line
Ayer’s Hair Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J C. Ayer & Co.. Lowell. Mass.. U.S.A.
LADIES'
HAIR
DRESSERS
CRAIG &
AITKEN<
Te 1198.
THE most charming and stylish
Transformations and semi-
Transformations you ever
saw from 21/- each. Switches of
hair from 5/6. Your own Gomb-
ings made up into Switches at
2/6 per oz. Specific Lotion, an
unfailing remedy for falling hair
and eradicating dandruff, 3/6 per
bottle.
Supply stores wholesale, human
hair merchants, assistants en-
gaged and sent anywhere.
Mail orders receive special
attention.
Price Lists on application.
680-682 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
**e«X*&
m
&&&&&
Day Shirt, from 4/- Tennis Shirt, from 4/6
VERTEX CELLULAR S
Full Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
D. 23RAECA.3VC & 00.,
73 & 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Agent in N.S. W.
M
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers'
Gazette & Sailing List, with map.
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 Collins-st., Melbourne. 4 Hunter-st., Sydney.
‘ {03“951735 .1
a“ ’ i”;
n K ' '..' " ‘
h . ‘ T; - - '
whiz,- “
GrO TO BIEiT.T.-
UiOIiANI) for Pretty Stamps, bub
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hagcs),
foreign stamp importer
74 E3izafoeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
fits cured
oin the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsv when every
Th „ ef ren 'edy has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11/-.
usands of Testimonials. Of all Ohemists, Stores, etc.
Wholesale Agents:
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY,
repared by I. \V. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
25 High-street, Belfast, Irejand.
“ I'll Try It."
\
The ResxM.
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capiliarine
Posted (under cover
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 10s. 6d.
_ SOLE AGENTS.
CHAIG &, AITKEIM, N.S.W. Barber’s Supply
__ House. 680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
, .° 7°y ® EEK Health?—lf you are ill and desire to
gam be healthy ; if you are tired of the suffering that
'‘Vj ? nc *‘ ess an d you would again like to feel the fire of
' in your veins and the pride of life in your heart—
'wifi, .u consult those great medical experts connected
Mpl' “i, nle .dieal staff of the Freeman and Wallace
- ecu cal Institute, whose names are household words
longboat Australasia, They have cured more men of
eir troubles and secured more medical triumphs than
Til' , f 1 association of medical men in Australia.
rTV' ll P on the scientific detail of which over
, ! Ijr) has been expended, is eulogised alike by press
id the medical profession as a lieo.lt h centre of uuiimited
1 |"®“t to suffering mankind. Tue specialists (whose
1 vt. appears upon page 48 of this issue) may be consulted,
Personally or by letter, free of charge.*
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Sirens.
MARINER, the Storm rides forth,
And his long reins lift the sea
Till the foaming breakers’ wrath
Crush thy tiny barque and thee;
Mariner, within the dark
Torn by angry leagues of foam,
Death calls in the breakers, hark 1
“ Come thou home ! ”
Hour by hour he closer comes,
Hear him whisper horribly!
Still thy straining arm he numbs
As the mad wave leaps at thee;
See him grin across the dark !
At thy prows he knocketh grim ;
Soon shalt thou, all pale and stark,
Feast with him !
Mariner, beyond the night
See with open arms we stand,
Whiter than the waves are white,
Laughing on a moonlit strand ;
Mariner, are we not fair,
Sweeter than all hope that dies ?
Here, O weary mariner,
Quiet lies.
Mariner, by all the art
Bearing still the Grecian mould,
By the longing of thy heart
For what earth can never hold;
By all fair and beautiful
Promising what cannot be,
Come, O come, where calm and cool
We wait for thee.
Mariner, thine hour flies fast!
Haste thee, haste thee, Death is nigh ;
Pass from us, and still thou hast
Death, and naught to mark thee by.
What though foul-fanged Ruin’s curled,
Marking thee with eyes of fire? —
All the beauty of the world
Waits desire !
By the love that calls thee home
From her window by the sea,
O’er a thousand leagues of foam
Keeping longing watch for thee;
By the fame thou wilt not win,
Changed for fathomless despair,
Come through hell to sweetest sin,
Mariner!
What though death eternal waits
On thy moment glorious—
Twisting flame that ne’er abates —
This for thee, and what for us ?
Damned for ever while we sing,
Out of. hell we call to thee,
Come thou, pledge thee our grim king,
Agony !|
N.S.W.
Pan.
“Bsria.”
WIDE solemn eyes that question me,
Wee hand that pats my head—
Where only two have stroked before,
And both of them are dead—
“Ah ! poo-ah daddy, mine,” she says,
With wondrous sympathy—
Oh, baby girl! you don’t know how
You break the heart in me.
Let foes and kinsfolk work their worst
And the world think what it will,
Your dimpled arms go round my neck,
I’m your own daddy still.
And “You kiss me an’ I’ll kiss you ”
Fresh kisses frank and free—
Ah ! baby girl, you don’t know how
You break the heart in me.
I dreamed, when I was good, that when
The snow showed in my hair,
A household angel in her teens
Would flit about my chair,
To comfort me as I grow old,
But that shall never be—
Ah ! baby girl, you don’t know how
You break the heart in me.
But one shall love me while I live
And soothe my troubled head,
And never hear an unkind word
Of me when I am dead.
Her eyes shall light to hear my name,
Howe’er disgraced it be—
Ah 1 baby girl, you don’t know how
You break the heart in me.
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.
Break-o’-Day.
Music in the lighted hall,
Love and laughter ! Dancing !
Joyous couples, one and all,
O’er the smooth floor prancing.
Oh ! make merry while you may !
Hist! who said ’twas Break-o’-Day ?
Break-o’-day’s a time to dread
As we dance to places :
Break-o’day, when lights half-sped
Tint the greyish faces.
Go it, cripples, while you may !
Croaker says ’tis Break-o’-Day.
Tired and weary in the grey light,
Love and laughter stifled ;
Staggering out to meet the daylight,
Hearts and nerves all rifled.
God ! the drearest track alway
Lies this side of Break-o’-Day.
Life’s a game of love and lai ghter,
Let us dance it thorough ;
Care but little what comes after—
Break-o’-Day to-morrow !
Go it, cripples, while ye may !
Ye must meet the Break-o’-Day.
VIC.
L. M. D.
Solid 9ct Gold, 20s.
Solid 15ct Gold, 30s.
9ct Gold, 13s 6d.
15ct Gold. 21s.
Silver, 2s 6d.
Exquisite White 5 Choice Diamonds,
iamonds, £lO 10s. 18ct, £5 10s.
We make our own Rings.
No fliddlemen’s Profits.
Silver Glove Hook, Is.
.sﬁlgg
. '\:"' " w
%‘5%9
I l
Choice Pearls and
Tnrquoise, 15cfc, 465.
} size larger.
Solid Gold Brooch, log gd.
Pepper Mills, Solid
ilvei'Mounts,los6d.
Fresh, pure pepper
always.
Solid Silver Top
Hair Pin Bottle,
Is 6d;
others, heaver, 3/6
Pearl and Turquoise
Photo. Pendant,
"full size, 21s.
Diamonds and Pearls,
£7 10s.
Made on the premiMa.
18ct, 21s.
The Noted Wedding
Ring House.
18ct Gold, with
1 Pearl or Opal, 16s;
with 1 Diamond, 265.
Solid
Silver
Hat
Pins,
any
letters,
Is.
16ot Bangles, from 20s.
S'
W
M ■'
44/-
DELARUE’S
“Buck-Jumper” WATCH
is a marvel of strength and
reliability in the saddle. . .
It is an ENGLISH Lever ; every part is
made in England. No cheap Swiss
parts in it.
11 is a f-plate Lever.
it has a Compensation Balance.
It has a Brequfit Hair Spring.
It is jewelled where the hard wear is.
It is Keyless and Dust-proof.
In a man’s size, Solid Silver Case, 441<
No. 2 Series, Nickel Case, 21s.
It is guaranteed for 15 years.
olid Silver Clock, of perfect
reliance, 28s 6rt.
Choice Pearls and Diamonds, £6 XOs.
Solid Silver Hair Pin Box, 8s 6d
others, 7s 6d and 10s 6d.
Solid Silver Hftt Brush,
6 inches long, 8s (Jd.
H
Ghent’s Solid Silver Card Case,
10a 6d.
m
Real Crocodile Leather Card Case
and Purse, Solid Silver Mounts,
5s 6d ; extra sizes.
Delarue, Ltd.
(Under the P.O. Clock
for 66 years.)
George Street, Sydney*
IT is a difficult matter to satisfy everybody, but we claim to have
satisfied every client whom we have supplied with an Acetylene
Gas Installation*
Read these testimonials; they speak for themselves—
Bungendore, October 81,1903.
“I am glad to *ay that my Acetylene Gas Plant is giving every satisfaction at a small cost.”
8 ■’ y d (Signed) W. FORSTER RUTLEDGE.
Old Berrigan, September 12, 1903.
“ The Gas is giving me every satisfaction, indeed I cannot speak too highly of all appliances, their simplicity
and the light supplied.” (Signed) A. 0. WILSON.
Umbercollie, Goondiwindi, September 28,1903.
“ Your ‘Perfection’ Generator has given me every satisfaction, and I consider it rightly deserves the title of
‘ Perfection.' (Signed) R. W. TREWEEKE.
Oberon, October 19, 1903.
“ Your Generator works very well. I would not return to the old method of kerosene lights on any account.
(Signed) ALBERT FOX.
Casino, October 19, 1903.
“ As I have taken the trouble to compare your Generator with those supplied by other firms in the district, I
can conscientiously recommend it—it has given me the utmost satisfaction." (Signed) MRS. H. LEE.
Maclean, October 20th, 1903.
“ I was so pleased with the lighting of my store by your Gas Plant that I extended same to residence ,
the whole Plant having worked without a hitch or any prospect of one.’ (Signed) E. BISHOP.
Murwillumbah, October 23, 1903.
“ I have found your Generator to be most satisfactory in every point. I am sure it can compare favorably
with any non-automatic type of generator on the market.” (Signed) WILL. G. AKED.
Dungog, October 22, 1903.
“ The ‘ Perfection ’is the cheapest, simplest and safest Generator in the market. I have used it for the last
six months and have not had the slightest bother.” (Signed) K. A. OAKLEY.
“ Acetylene Gas Plant supplied by you has given every satisfaction,
with it in any way, and consider it a great boon to country houses.
Tambar Springs, October 26, 1903.
I have not had the slightest trouble
(Signed) J. McMASTER.
We can refer you to Hundreds of Clients in any part of N.S.W.
We have now successfully got over the difficulty of using Acetylene Gas for
cooking, and are prepared to supply Cooking Stoves, Room
Warmers, Bath Heaters, and Heating Apparatus of all descriptions
for using with Acetylene Gas.
pr- Beware of Infringers of our Patents Rights."*®
The Acetylene Gas Co.
Sole Patentees, of Crystalline
Carbide of Calcium
of Australasia, Ltd.
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Contractors to Government House, Railway Commissioners, Harbor Trust,
Education Department, Water and Sewerage Board, Post Office, Govt
Railways, Supreme Court Judges, and all the leading Station Holders,
Churches, Schools of Art, Hotels and Stores in the State.


'o'
&
On
111
*#•
Q
S»
Q
G
o
O
O
D
O
fc;
□
□
o
n
:r'.
%
ii
V
'C
ga
lli
«o
ELECTRICITY THE CURE.
Does not every man wish to be strong, to be able to meet euceessfully the every day Issues ot life that occur? This
Is Impossible when the body is weak, the brain weary, and ability to concentrate the mind is missing It is the
strong? man, the man whose mind is alert, and who is wide awake, who succeeds nowadays. Be at the top! Be
as grood and better than the next man!! If you feel that you are run down; that you are weak; if you have tried thg
OLD AND EVER-FAILING DRUG TREATMENT, give it up. Your body is like an engine without steam, your nerve force is
exhausted, you have no energy, you have no steam.
"Electricity is Life.” It is the potent factor in the human body. Electricity is the only rational and certain cure
ferfUnctional disorders. If your BACK ACHE 3, if you are NERVOUS, if you have RHEUMATISM, LUMBAGO, INDIGESTION,
STOMACH or KIDNEY TROUBLES, Electricity, properly applied, will cure you. There is no doubt about it. It cannot fall!
It quickens the pulse, invigorates the blood, puts new life into every nerve.
DR. McLAUGHLIN’S
&
h
>k
■<v
A
%
O
r
ELECTRIC BELT
Send for One of our
Illustrated Books
giving all information about the advantages
to be derived by the use of Electricity in
all Chronic, Nervous, or Functional Dis-
orders—how the various ailments can be
cured by its use, and the wonderful cures
effected in this country alone. In addition,
it is full of Engravings showing the posi-
tions of Belt and Attachments, as worn
for various ailments. We will send it to
you FREE, post paid, to any address.
Everyone should have one of them.
If you can call, we will be pleased to
show you how this appliance is worked,
and how it can be regulated to suit everyone.
Consultation Hours—
-9 a.m. to 8 p.m.
Is a Man-maker. It is the only appliance that will restore lost vitality. It is an absolutely positive cure for all forms of
ORGANIC DEBILITY, LOSS OP MEMORY, VARICOCELE, WEAK STOMACH, and all Physical and Vital
Weakness, Confusion of Ideas, Kidney and all complaints. In cases of Loss of Energy, Ambition, and that Tired Feeling
(which is more pronounced during the hot summer weather) its effect is magical. It has cured thousands every year iffter
every other known remedy has failed. The fact is, medicines cannot cure these complaints, a: you will know if you have
tried them. Electricity—which is nerve force—is the power which has been drained from the system, and to cure it
must be replaced. This Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt will do. It is the crowning triumph in electrical science, and its
cost is within the reach of every sufferer.
Do not buy a Belt that won’t cure you without drug's.
Mr. VICTOR SWANSOJI, of MT. CROSBY, Nr IPSWICH. QUEENSLAND, writeo: •« Dear Sire,-I have pleaeure In acknowledging that the Electric Belt
which I purchased from you has done what you said it would. Before I bought It, I was so disabled that I was unable to dress myself. Now I will
give you an aooount of the treatment through which I went before receiving It. 1 gave Sequar’s remedies a good trial, also Herbal Remedies wae
an out-door patient at the hospital for four months; tried three different patent medicines and linament; placed myself under ancther doctor’s
treatment for two months; had my arm* bled, without any result further than the loss of blood; gave the Herbal Remedies another trial ■ tried
Turkish and EUctric Baths aid received no benefit from any, until wearing yeur Electric Belt for three months, when, after being in pain for
seven years, I was able to do my work with pleasure, and have just oompleted one mile of fenoing. I have pleasure In guaranteeing this statement
to be the truth.”
£lOOO
REWARD
WILL BE PAID for one of our Belts which,
when properly used, refuses to give a Strong
Current, or to be controlled at the patient’s
will by the regulator attachment. Other
belts need no regulator, because they give
no current.
The ability to regulate the current of our
Belt has done more to produce curative
results than any improving feature we have
ever made.
Be Careful of Imitations.
Mr. R. J. BRAY, of GREEN CULLY, via NEWSTEAD, VIC., writes: “Dear Sirs,—l beg to reply to
yours of tho 17th. re Belt. In telling* you the truth, I wore your Belt for six weeks, and I felt that
good from it, and knowing- that my wife is a great sufferer from constipation and l.ver and other
ailments, I took it home to try on her. I fixed it up for her, a d she wore it for the first time three
weeks ago. Last Su iday night I received a letter from her, a-.U she tells me she is using the Belt and
working wonderfully She now enjoys perfect health, which is a thing she has not done for
some years. That pleas sme as much as anything. The only thing I regret that we are not
together so that we can both use it; however, she wants It worse than I do. I will write you again
soon, as 1 want to get the Belt again for it has done me a lot of good in so short a time.’’
A well-known storekeeper In Narromine, who suffered from Rheumatism, etc., writes: “Dear
S' r 3.—ln reply to your letter of the Bth inst. asking for report as to my condition. Since giving your
Belt a fair trial, I am pleased to say that I have derived great benefit. Since using your Belt the
Indigestion I have been suffering from has entirely disappeared, and I am perfectly satisfied that
your Belts are genuine and a wonderful invention.
I am, yours faithfully, “ CHERN LEE."
Mr. W. J. PARKER, of BLINMAN, 8.A., writes: “ Dear Sirs,—lt Is a great pleasure for me to be
able to say that the Belt has worked wonders, my hip is quite well, and my back Is better than It has
been for a long time. Ido not think I shall require to use the Belt much longer, as I am pleased to
say that I am almost thoroughly restored to health."
the dr. McLaughlin co.,
100 W. MARKET STREET, SYDNEY-
Melbourne Office—l67E. Swanston St.; N.Z. Office—s 4 Willis St., Wellington.


QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK
Incorporated under “The Companies Act, 1863.”
BANKERS TO THE GOVERNMENT
- LIMITED.
OF QUEENSLAND.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO Os Od
Paid-up Capital £413,146 3s. lOd
UNDER GOVERNfIENT AUDIT.
Reserve Fund £33,000 Os. Od.
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock ..£3,116,621 ss. Od*
All New Business since 1893 Specially Protected*
Directors: JAS. MUNRO, Esq., Chairman; Hon. A. J. CALLAN, M.L.C. ; JOHN CAMERON, Esq. ML A • JAS MILNE Esq . V tord
Auditors : Gm S. HUTTON, F.F.1.A., Aost. ; F. A. MULLER, F.F.1.A., A OT t. FLOWER i
GENERAL MANAGER-W. V. RALSTON.
... Inspector : ALEX. STEUART. Branch Inspector ■ D M PATERSON
Assistant Branch Inspector: R. K. MILLER. Branch Accountant i D.' F. MAXWELL
HEAD OFFICE
Manager: J. P. MACKENZIE.
- BRISBANE.
Accountant: M. G. HAYMAN.
LONDON OFFICE - - - 8 PRINCES STREET, E.C.
Local Directors: Sir EDWIN S. DAWES, K.C.M.G.; R. M. STEWART, Esq. ;R. H. SPENS, Esq.
Manager : J. W. Dickinson. Accountant : W. C. Phillips. Bankers : Tiik Bank of England ; Llotds Bank, Lm
SYDNEY, 99 Pitt-street —William Sewell, Manager.
Albion
Alloka
Baroaldine ...
Beaudesekt ...
Blacjkall
Boonah
Bundaberg ...
Burketown ...
Cairns
Charleville ...
Charters Towers
Childers
Clifton
Cloncurry ...
Cooktown
Croydon
CUNNAMOLLA ...
... Thos. C. Davy, Mgr.
... T. Clinton Davies, Mgr.
... F. E. Matthews, Mgr.
... A. Winship, Mgr.
... R. E. Burton, Mgr.
... K. M. Mackenzie, Mgr.
... F. V. Murphy, Mgr.
... E. F. Frayne, Mgr.
... Jas. Alison, Mgr.
... G. B. Kingsford, Mgr.
... A. C. Luya, Mgr.
... W. E. Day, Mgr.
... P. J. Dalton, Mgr.
... A. O. Jackson, Mgr. (temp.)
... C. E. Rosser, Mgr.
... R. W. Cameron, Mgr.
... J. F. Twine, Mgr.
Dalby
Esk ...
Eorbest Hill
Fortitude Valley
Geraldton ...
Gympie
Halifax
Herberton ...
Hughenden ...
Ingham
Ipswich
Killarney ...
Laidley
Longreaoh ...
Maokay
Maryborough
Mount Garnet
R. M. Morris, Mgr.
W. J. McGhie, Mgr.
T. Murphy, Mgr.
W. B. Mackenzie, Mgr.
A. S. Alexander, Mgr.
J. F. Hollis, Mgr.
S. W. Grant, Mgr.
H. Bathurst, Mgr.
J. Farquhar, Mgr.
Chas. L. Chester, Mgr.
Henry J. Gray, Mgr.
P. C. Gorrie, Mgr.
Wm. Fulton, Mgr.
H. Ryland, Mgr.
St. Clair Bernard, Mgr.
H. Hodson, Mgr.
N. A. Clowes, Mgr.
Mount Mobgan
Muttaburra ...
Nobmanton ...
Pitts worth ...
Port Douglas
Havens wood ...
Richmond
Rockhampton
Roma
South Brisbane
Thargomindah
Thursday Island
Toowoomba ...
Townsville ...
Warwick
Winton
Yangan
0. F. Smith, Mgr.
J. A. McCarthy, Mgr.
G. L. McCallum, Mgr.
B. Steuart, Mgr.
Alfred Gibbs, Mgr.
T. J. O'Carroll, Mgr.
A. E. Allison, Mgr.
W. H. Robertson, Mgr.
F. Faithful, Mgr.
A. Ulooq, Mgr.
R. D. Whitehill, Mgr.
E. W. Moran, Mgr.
Colin Wardrop, Mgr.
G. H. Pritchard, Mgr.
A. J. A. Moody, Mgr.
R. S. Irvine, Mgr.
J. W. Ralston, Mgr.
AGENTS
Victoria
South Australia
Western Australia
New Zealand and Fiji
Tasmania
Scotland
Ireland
New York
San Francisco...
... The National Bank of Australasia, Limited.
... The National Bank of Australasia, Limited.
... The National Bank of Australasia, Limited.
... Bank of New South Wales.
... The Bank of Australasia.
... Royal Bank of Scotland ; British Linen Co. Bank.
... Ulster Bank, Limited.
... Messrs. Laidlaw and Co.
... Bank of California.
China and thb East
Chicagk>
Canada
South Africa ...
South America
Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation.
Yokohama Specie Bank, Limited.
Chartered Bank of India, Australia and China.
The Mercantile Bank of India, Limited.
The Corn Exchange National Bank of Chicago.
Bank of Montreal.
The Bank of Africa, Limited.
The British Bank of South America, Limited.
Interest Allowed on Fixed Deposits— l 2 months, at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum ; 2 years and over, at the rate of per cent, per annum.
Note—Fixed Deposits and Current Accounts Creditors are specially protected, being a first charge on Assets, after Government Accounts.
CIRCULAR NOTES are issued in sums of £lO, £2O, and £5O negotiable in the principal towns throughout the World.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, Limited, grants Drafts on its Branches and Agents; negotiates Bills against Wool, Tallow, Hides, Copper, Tin, &0., fto. ; purchases
and advances on Gold ; discounts Commercial Paper; makes advances on approved Security ; receives Deposits and allows interest thereon according to arrangement, and transacts all other
usual Banking Business.
KODAKS for Xmas Presents.
KODAK PHOTOGRAPHY is simplicity itself, and NO DARK ROOM
is now needed throughout the whole process of Picture Making
with a KODAK from Start to Finish,
“You press the Button,
And do the rest yourself.”— Naw Vbmioh
Kodaks
all prices
from 6/-
v* J*
Send for our
Illustrated
Catalogue,
and mention
this paper.
COMPLETE DAYLIGHT OUTFIT for Pictures x2| inches,
including No. 1 Brownie Camera, Daylight Developing Machine, (bo.
Price - - - - 25/- ONLY.
COMPLETE DAYLICHT OUTFIT for Pictures 3£ x 2$ inches,
including No. 2 Brownie Camera, Daylight Developing Machine, <bc.
Price .... 28/- ONLY.
To be obtaii ted of all Dealers, and of .
KODAK LIMITED,
284 COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
GIFTS EVERYBODY,
THE BEST PLACE FOR
CHRISTMAS PRESENTS.
My STOCK and PRICES are so varied that every taste and
every pocket Is likely to be suited. Here are a few Illustrations
of thousands of Pretty Gifts I sell.
FATHER
For
MOTHER
For
BROTHER
127—Finest Quality Silver-plated Hair Pin Box, 8/8
2986—Sterling Silver Hair Brushes, from 16/-
1358—Solid Gold Brooch, Real Amethyst,
Heart Pendant, Raised Ornaments, 15/-
193—Sterling
Silver, Engraved
Match Boxes,
from 6/-
A2l47—Newest Design Gold Brooch,
artistically made and finished, 2fi/-
186—A1 Quality Silver-plated Stud Box,
Solid Gold Links,
from 10/6;
same u pattern, 20/*
6 —Sterling Silver Manicure Sets,
from 26/*
2283—Solid Silver Mounted
Perfume Bottles, from 10/8
92—Half-hoop Diamond
Rings, from £6 to £2O.
m
86—18 ct. Gold, Fancy
Set, Diamond and Ruby
or Sapphire Ring,
£6.
1786/2 — Solid Gold Brooche*,
unlimited (election, 7/8
1781/s— Solid Gold Brooches,
unlimited selection, 7/8
s—Pretty Pearl and
Turquoise
Pendants,
Solid Gold, 25/-
Potted duty tree to any part of Australia. Send for my Illustrated Catalogue.
QUEENSLAND LEADING JEWELLER—
H. F. SMITH
Queen St., Brisbane
and at IPSWICH and TOOWOOMBA.


TUB
SMELTING * REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
Works: DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA 06 Miles from Sydney).
1901, Limited.
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores,
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay. Cyanide, Slags, and Jewellers’ Sweep, etc.
Por all information regarding Rates, flp p |y to flie Manager, Head Office, DaptO J
or, A. E. RUDDER & CO., 40 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
THE PA.MOITS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OP ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Sfthl pi, h f tat ® n Y® Y? ami \ z . ed afc lts wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing Hoarseness Pain or
fortinainn ll Ch - ®*P e P e ”ce delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure It is most com
Lv«r Wn In s T 1 *® 1 ?® 11 Y and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop Consumption has
<md a Complete" Owe is certain. C ° UShS pr ° perly treated Wlth this medicine * No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
BEWARE OF* COUGHS l
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
„ “Orange, N.S.W.
Mr. Hearne.—
“Dear Sir,—l enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
of London, England, from which you will glean that
your medicine has been a perfect Go'd-send to a martyr to
colds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself what an immense success
it was. —Yours faithfully, .”
Extract from letter alluded to above
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has .quite cured me. Dr. is very
much interested in it. lie came yesterday, and carried
off the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS* TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
0 . ... “Dergholm, Victoria.
"Dear Sir,—i wish to add mv testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire.' I had medical
advice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
yours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“ Yours faithfully,
“ JAMES ASTBURY.”
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances w hich
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed bv
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
ty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
" r used yon' Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
•
“ Y ?. ll r Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but lam sending for another bottle in case I should want it.—D. M'DONALD, Trinkev, via
(guinnai, N.S.W.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Kenny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
•
“ M J r wife is 82 years old, and lam 79, and lam glad to inform you that vour Brochitis Cure has done us
Victoria''” 61 ™ 1 ° f g °° d ’ 11 having quickly cured us both.—B. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadfoid,
•
. ! 1 , h ?: ve US2d on< ; bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me. —(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
“ 1 have foand y° ur Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.”
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
«
Queen^treet] d Me l lbou?ne i ” WaS ’ disappeared after two doseB --C- J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
“ 1 ’ately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely imraculous.-F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.-C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria.”
valuaWe medidne!—^Mrs.^jfsLATER 1 &Ju7 £*£&*** ° m With ° Ut delay > “ 1 find * be a most
G. SEYTER?Bourke 8 , e New h Wakt” 1 ® oarfc Th ; result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.-
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
STEELE ha Yankt d Sidfng? NZ d South b WaTeT” 8 1 had ‘ lam recommendin S t 0 everybody.-*
hll( . T L 8;! ff f ere ,' 1 fronl Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine
TREr th V aIU astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of mv brief trial.- JoilN C
XRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.” '
I suffered severely from Bronchitis, aiTd the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any goodl, but I heaid of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well —U iIoOD
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.” H n. iiuuu,
•
„ ‘‘Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a fuend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
•
, ‘Y° ur Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from von have nulled
me through a long and dangerous illness.-HENRY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria ”
p -‘‘ Th . e kot ‘! e ? f Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.—CHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch's
roint, via Darlingford, Victoria.
Gratitude and Appreciation
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
" The Scientific Australian Office,
“169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
"Dear Mr. Hearne,—The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during’ the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne's Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Coliins-street, and the effect that, it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
“We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.”
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
“ 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
"Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send us 38
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount; of order.
“ We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it. to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
‘ THOMASON, CIIATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists."
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir,—Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“1 am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUA it RILL,
“Editor Geelong Advertiser."
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.’’—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
r7,T°o ffic T e: No- 5 ’ First Floor >. Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
ize« S • cll’2!G. 4s 6d. Sold bv Clieniists and Medlftiue "Vendors Forwarded bv Post to anv Address when not obtainable Locally •
ROTHWELL’S
147-149 QUEEN STREET,
HIGH-CLASS TAILORS, MERCERS, and HATTERS.
We Want
your
Business.
We
Guarantee to
Please You.
PANAMA HAT.
Manufacturers of
Masonic Regalia.
Station
Requirements
a Specialty.
■
'
mm
TERAI HAT.
If we HAVE
your measure
drop us a line for
New Samples.
If we HAVE
NOT send for
our System of
Sel f-Measurement
ROTHWELL’S, Ltd., 147-149 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE


vf
m
Ip®
©
St*
'4 0 E
l
L
7*
J*
73
o
i
*
K
"'nT^
*
m •
#
t
sa
m
•
a
SS* i
: , '*'V
■
v a
m
>',! i
f-:Mf
* •K
«# . #■:
ft r-
.
x-V"
I Y/> >-
kr > *
-F-
-fl
La£
,;-4
■*> - ’ ' <
I • f; HI %. % % ' ’
I ®| m*
! f m
&\ E/V
vT
*
S
30
*
CORSETS
BIE*
s
*
s
r*
PD
( 111 o'
r 4£>E


Scepticism Thwarted.
Such Daily and Hourly Proof Must
Convince all Unbelievers.
tty Cam of Mr- JAMES WINGFIELD.
(BY A SYDNEY SOBlBl.)
What with the seven years’ drought, A M*
currence of the plague in our midst, and
Shocks of earthquake in various parts of the
country.it Is high time that a definite policy
for purposos of personal defence should be
dopted, and although there are some
elements of disaster which cannot be re-
sisted, it is no reason why we should not
make tho most of the opportunities at our
disposal for overcoming soma of them.
Effective aid in the shape of advice ifl given
bolow by Mr. James Wingfield, of No. 14
Harden Avenue, Glebe, who says :
“When I came from the country seven years
ftgo I was down for eighteen months with
inflammation of the lungs and pneumonia.
My constitution was fairly broken up, as for
nearly three years I was not able to do a
stroke of work, and, of course, that meant
everything going out and nothing coming
in. The consequence was tl at as soon as I
could get about at all I took the first job
available. The work was heavv—-much too
hoavy for me, in fact—so that what little
strength I had was soon exhausted ; but it
was not until I soverely strained my back
that I realised the great risk I had been
running. Following closely upon that mis-
hap, I caught a terrible cold in the kidneys,
which, in turn, was attended by an awful
attack of influenza, thus showing how one
misfortune follows another. I managed to
jog along in extreme difficulties until the in-
fluenza came, but that proved too much for
me al o.ether, as I went right tinder as
soon as it seized me.”
“ Was it necessary to take to your bed t"
asked thepiessman.
The pains in my head were
so intense that I could not hold it up, and
my temperature rose to an alarming degree.
My back ached worse than ever, while my
limbs were so much affected in the same
way that I could not get any ease no matter
in what position I lay. Supervening upon
those tortures came a burning pain in my
eyes, over which I had two bandages placed,
and also one around my forehead, to see if
my agony could be reduced. I must have
looked as if I had been at the Boer war,
but I can tell you it was no laughing matter,
for 1 could neither eat nor sleep, and I
deeply regretted to find that the cold was
geti mg on my chest, which became clogged
up during the night, and in the morning, aa
soon as daylight came, I started to cough,
and a very heavy feeling oppressed me till
1 got my cheat cleared again. However, I
have to be very than, ful that at the critical
moment, when there was every likelihood of
a prolonged and calamitous illness being
again experienced, I resorted to a medicine
which had previously enlisted my implicit
confidence, as, by its timely use, the im-
pending destruction was averted. To be
expliot, I must tell you that after my ill-
ness with pneumonia I took to using
Clements Tonic for the purpose of recuperat-
lng my vitality, and I met with so much
success through the revivifying powers of
that medicine that I naturally looked to it
to strengthen me again. But Clements
Tonic had a chance of doing more this time,
and it was quite equal to the occasion. You
see, when I was lying prostrate with in-
fluenza I did not waste much time before
getting Clements Tonic, and thus that
dreadful complaint was held in check. My
excruciating head pains were very shortly
relieved, and the agonising manner in which
my eyes were affected was greatly minimised.
The wonderful relief I then felt through
the agency of Clements Tonic helped m®
along considerably, and as my strength was
gradually! improving under the same
remedy, so was there more vital power in
my system to fight against my adversities."
“You mean,” said the reporter, “that
your disease made no further headway.”
“ Exactly," iru tha anthnalastfo reply.
*' It was like a pitohed battle between two
gladiators, and there is no doubt that
Clements Tonic won easily, as it prevented
the cold from getting a further hold npon
tny chest, and the heaviness and difficulty
in breathing were entirely removed. I
used to think that I had lost control of my
nerves completely, because they trembled
so whenever anything happened to excite
me, and, besides, I got irritable at the least
thing. If I chanced to hear anybody
whistling or singing I felt annoyed, for it
seemed that everybody could be
happy hut myself, and that is a very
melancholy frame of mind to be in, bolicve
me. But the Clemente Tonic I was taking
quickly held the upper hand over these
troubles, for my nervous system waa re-
stored to order, and the general sense of
ease and comfort which I was gaining had
the effect of making my mind moro peaceful
and contented. The awfnl complication of
complaints from which I had suffered had
made such a wreck of me that I could not
get quito strong for some time, as, in the
meantime, I felt languid and drowsy ail
day, and with my limbs for ever aching;
but it was a grand thing that Clements
Tonic had gone so far as to make me well
enough to go back to my work, although for
a while I felt very exhausted when I came
home at nights, and was always glad when
Sundays same round.”
“ Were you resting better then than
before ! ”
“ Oh, yes. I found that Clements Tonic
was a fine medicine for making me sleep,
and I was pleased to foci refreshed and
active when I woke up, because I had pre-
viously been put to such distress on getting
out of bed that I had to straighten mysolf
gradually on account of the pains in my
back, which at last yielded to the curative
properties of Clements Tenic, like the reib
of the miseries which I had suffered from.
After a certain period my shattered con-
' stitution was properly welded together
again, and whenever I have been asked how
it was done my friends have always received
the same reply— through using Clements
Tonic, and so long as I> live it will be a
pleasure for me to advise all sufferers to
take the same medicine for curing their
complaints. Food had to be very tempt-
ing, and eveu then I could notalways touch it
before taking to Clements Touio, but after-
wards I felt so hungry that I could take a fair
quantity of any kind of food, and thoroughly
enjoy it. Moreover, my digestive organs
were so benefited by the use of Clem-nts
Tonic, that the assimilation of my food
followed as a matter of course, a ,<l
I suppose that is one of the princi-
pal reasons why flatulenoe, headaches,
body pains, giddiness, and other physical
defects do not trouble me now.”
“ Have you any objection to this state-
ment being published ? ”
'* Not the slightest. You can publish
these words of gratitude to Clements
Tonic in any way you may prefer."
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
Jambs Wingfield, of 14 Garden Avenue
Glebe, Sydney, in the State of New South
Wales, Commonwealth of Australia, do solemnly
ftn j 81ncer ®l/ declare that I have carefully
read the annexed document, consisting of five folios
and consecutively numbered from one to five
and that it contains and is a true and faithful
account of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic*
and also contains my full permission to publish in any
way my statements—which I give voluntarily
without receiving any payment; and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the
■ame to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of
the Oaths Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Sydney, this fifteenth
day of Marob, on* thousand nine hundred and two*
before me,
THOS. JNO. DUNN, J.P.
FREE TRIAL FOR 90 DAYS.
"1‘ /"
{1’ 41/ .. '
.U ‘ ‘
7%: 1 .
. 1'")!
, .1. ,
’3. _‘ ,." g1.
I If " _ ‘
i. "
6‘ -‘
1‘ ‘
‘ o ' ‘ '
“a”
i penny down. SimjWy drop us a post-card with your
“ Y e n wl i f<^J vard . y« u a *> once one of our latest Im-
• £ °S? ?u lgh Grade Electric Belts free. You can use it three
months then pay us if cured, and the price will be only half
what others ask for their inferior belts. If not cured, you re-
turn the belt to us at our expense and your word will decide,
w e are wiihng to trust you entirely, knowing that we have the
best and most perfect belt ever invented, and nine men in ten
always pay when cured.
WE WILL TRUST YOU.
, modern Belt is the most perfeot and complete ever
n vented. It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varicocele,
£ d S 10n * Weak Back, Kidney, Liver and
stomach complaints, Nervousness, and all weaknesses of
men and women.
WE WILL GIVE FREE
sho^d^^adhTitme^a^V^ 7 ° f beautifull y illustrated Medical Book which
Freein pIL ? n wrLner Tf v.,r ien ‘ , Drop us a Post-card and we will send it to you
our splendid Book and Belt Free*** Write
The Dr. J. fL Austin Electric Co. (Dept. M.)
47 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.
Oti
WM
my
Ut>
e*
CE9V
*The Man of the Hour”
The Sauce of the Age”
BLOGG BROS..
CRACKAJACK
THESE marvellous little instruments have gained the leading position
in the mouth organ trade.
MADE IN THREE
STYLEB.
No* 1-
CRACKAJACK
PROFESSIONAL
40 Reeds, 4s.
No. 2
CRACKAJACK
SENIOR
20 Reeds, 2s. 6d.
No. 3
CRACKAJACK
JUNIOR
20 Reeds, Is. 6d.
■ ;
'
'
O
J
-- -
*v~~ K
Mouth Or&ans.
The dream of yester-
day is the reality of
to-day.
The Prophecy of the
19th Century is fulfilled
in
The
Crackajack
The
King
of
Mouth
Organs.
DON’T WORRY
to look any further, the «• CRACKAJACK ” is the mouth organ you
want, and the one that will give you satisfaction. The reeds are made
of bell metal alloy, each one is made separately and toned by experts,
for tone and construction Crackajacks have never been equalled, every
part is easily detatchable and can be replaced by duplicate in a few
seconds.
CRACKAJACK’S WILL OUTLAST
TWO ORDINARY MOUTH ORGANS
SOLD BY ALL NEWS AGENTS, or Post Free from the Sole
Wholesale Agents,
% 99
276 and 278 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.


DON’T WAIT FOR
BALDNESS.
"VT 0! don’t wait for baldness, for the longer you wait the more it
XI will cost to cure. Capilla Hair Tonic will cure your
baldness, and give you back your hair, providing you still
have a slight “ down ” on the scalp for it to work on. It is the
testimony of thousands of Australia’s men and women that is
effecting the enormous sales of
, “WK/(MW \“v
u l “1‘:
I'm 1 ' , "W"
affgl/MI ,5! W” W"
"""n‘li'n M” ‘ W Ill/Ii / \
.H.“ﬂtﬁt'lziiﬁwyw/fa/lﬂ/z/é/éy\ .
‘. ‘\\.“:|‘:; 'vj'¢-"«/."/:j;j“,;/, /I'/
:4" \ Z'” 217/1844/
'
E £§§§§§§§ \ ‘
,s;5£5§5§:3‘\\\\\
CAPILLA
HAIR TONIC.
It is a medical scalp treatment
and not a perfume. It is not meant
to perfume the hair. It IS meant to
cure scalp ailments, and to produce
hair where the scalp is now bald. I
shall be pleased to mail you my
Treatise on the Hair, and copies of
testimonials.
The Bulletin, of June 27th, 1903 : “Taking the second quarter of 1902,
and the second quarter of 1903 (according to the statement prepared by two of
Sydney’s leading accountants, Mr. William Robertson and Mr. Wilfrid Johnson, of
Yaralla Chambers, Pitt-street), the business of the Capilla Hair Tonic Proprietary
of Sydney has increased its volume of business by 48 per cent, which, in these days of
competition, goes a long way to prove that this preparation is far and away
ahead of the common or garden variety of hair restorer, which is generallj
foisted upon the public.’’
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers throughout the
Commonwealth, 2/6 per bottle, posted 3/3; full course of
six bottles, 17/3, direct from the Proprietor and Inventor,
W. Oliver Richards, 164 Pitt St., Sydney.
NEW ZEALAND price, 3/6 per bottle.
THE
Royal Bank of Queensland [td.
Incorporated, under “ The Companies Act of 1863.”
AUTHORISED CAPITAL = £1,425,000
Capital Paid-up - £437,354
Reserve Liability of Shareholders - 175,997
Rererve Fund (invested in Government Stock) 60,000
£693,351
Head Office: Queen Street, BRISBANE,
p DIRECTORS:
L< CAREW (Chairman), Th. UNMACK, HERBERT HUNTER, WILLIAM DAVIES.
AUDITORS:
T. WELSBY, F.1.A.Q.; C. A. CLARKE, A.S.A.A. (Eng.)
SOLICITORS:
Messrs. CHAMBERS, BRUCE & McNAB.
GENERAL MANAGER: EDWD. D. DAY. ASSISTANT HANAGER: W. B. ALFORD.
ACCOUNTANT: J. K. HENDERSON.
BRANCHES:
London Office : 25 ABCHURCH LANE, E.C.
H. HALL SMITH (Manager).
LONDON DIRECTORS:
C. SIDEY, J. F. ARNOT, A. C. SANDEMAN.
BANKERS:
THE LONDON JOINT STOCK BANK LIMITED.
Bundaberg
Charters Towers
Croydon
Catton
George St. (City)
Gympte
Ipswich
Laidley
Lowood
Nanango
Ros'shampton
Rosewood
South Brisbane
Stanihorpe
Toowoomba
Warwick
AGENTS:
Ireland— The Bank of Ireland.
cotland The National Bank of Scotland Limited,
Edinburgh.
op Scotland —The Caledonian Banking Com-
pany, Limited, Inverness.
Chicago First National Bank of Chicago.
' EW N^t- < - RK T?£ e -^K enf;s of the Bank of Montreal;
-National City Bank of New York.
Canada— The Bank of Montreal.
Idmited 800- '^ 01 '^ 011 a,lt * San Franc * sco Bank
Germany—Deutsche Bank.
South Afr t ca—The Standard Bank of South Africa
Limited.
Calcutta and Colombo— The Ch irtered Bank of India,
Australia and China.
India —National Bank of India Limited.
New South Wales Tli • Connie rcial Banking-Com-
pany of Sydney Limited.
Victoria — The Bank of New South Wales.
South Australia— The Bank of Ne v South Wales.
Western Australia —The Bank of New South Wales.
New Zealand —The Bank of New South W les.
Queensland —Th ■ Bank of New South Wales; The
Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Ltd.
Tasmania —The Commercial Bmk of Tasmania Ltd.
Hong Kong, Singapore, Japan, Manila—Hons Konjr and Shanghai Banking Corporation.
wh I HE * OYAL BANK OF QUEENSLAND LIHITED allows interest on FIXED DEPOSITS at rates
inclnri' 11 5? ascertaine< l on application ; discounts trade paper, makes Advances against approved securities,
Debp l n ° “'" s supported by Shipping Documents ; issues Drafts and Fetters of Credit; _C 1 ects Interest on
comt'i ? Dividends of Public Companies ; invests money in Colonial and other Securities on behalf of
scituents ; and generally transacts all usual banking business.
Helidon Spa Water
A NATURAL TABLE WATER from the
NATURAL SPRINQS OF HELIDON.
Bottled by the HELIDON SPA WATER CO., Ltd., ONLY.
Head Office:
North Quay,
BRISBANE, Q,
Branches:
Bulletin Lane,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Robb's Buildings,
Collins Street,
MELBOURNE, V.
and
HELIDON, Q.
Watef
Natural Springs ofHeudou
COf»YOI* ANALYSIS
S - ( ,
» /A "-/w/e
&
ff«B©
Agencies
A. E. & F. Tolley,
ADELAIDE, S.A.
Dean & Hardie,
FREMANTLE,
W.A.
Burgess Bros.,
HOBART, Tas.
Geo. H. Scales,
WELLINGTON,
N.Z.
And throughout
QUEENSLAND.
This Water is full of sparkling effervescence, and is of absolute purity*
None genuine unless the Company's Trade Marks are on Labels as above*
(Blue Seal with H.S. in gold letters cm red streamers on neck of
Bottle, and spouting spring on body of Bottle, with analysis.
THE HELIDON SPA WATER CO., Ltd.
The .
Bank
of . .
North Queensland
incorporated under the
Companies Act of 1863.
LIMITED
Authorised Capital -
Paid-up Capital - £lOO,OOO
Reserve Fund (Invested in Government Stock) 16,000
Reserve Liability to Shareholders - 250,000
£700,000
£366,000
Directors.
Hon. A. S. COWLEY, M.L.A., Speaker of Legislative Assembly (Chairman).
Wm. COLLINS, Esq. Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
Auditors—G. O. BEARHMOBE, Esq. G. T. C. LANG, Esq., F.F.I.A.
So icitcra—Messrs. THYNNE & MACARTNEY.
Head Office : QUEEN ST., BRISBANE.
General Manager—J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Accountant-ROBERT R. LOVE.
. BRANCHES
CAIRNS.
THURSDAY ISLAND.
THORNBOROUGH.
CHILDERS.
CHARTERS TOWERS.
MAREEBA:
COOKTOWN.
ROCKHAMPTON.
ATHERTON.
TOWNSVILLE (with agency at Ayr).
SYDNEY : 16 BRIDGE STREET.
Manager : J. P. CANNY.
Local Director : JAS. BURNS, Esq.
(Messrs. Bums, Philp & Co. Ltd.).
AGENTS.
London— The London and Westminster Bank
Limited.
Scotland —The Bank of Scotland.
Nkw South Walks—The Commercial Bank-
ing Company of Sydney Limited.
Victoria —The Commercial Bank of Aus-
tralia Limited.
Victoria— The Colonial Bank of Australasia
Limited.
South Australia—The Commercial Bank of
Australia Limited:
Western Australia— The Western Aus-
tralian Bank.
Tasmania— The Commercial Bank of Tas-
mania Limited.
Fm ZeALAND } The Bank of New Zealand.
India, China and the East— Hong Kong and
Shanghai Banking Corporation.
The Bask ok North Queensland Limited allows Ii terest on Fixed Deposits at rates which can be
ascertained oh application, opens Currei t Accounts on usual terms, discounts Commercial Paper, makes
Advances against Approved Securities, including Bills supported by Shipping Documents, negotiates and
collects Bills of Exchange, and undertakes all Colonial Banking business.


Gift Suggestions at Stewart Dawson’s | Gift Suggestions at Stewart Dawson’s
All Eyes are Turned
Towards Christmas
Stewart Dawson & Co.
are Ready ♦.. ♦.
CHRISTMAS GIFTS seek the
favor of your inspection*
As a magnificent exposition
of things suitable for Xmas Gifts
our store is worth coming miles
to see* Nowhere an such a
profusion of exclusive Gifts be
secured—nowhere else are the
prices so extremely reasonable.
Every Article in this Christmas
Stock comes up to the highest
standard of Excellence; we would
not imperil our reputation by
knowingly permitting any inferior-
ity in these Gifts* for we realise
that most people wish to give their
friends only the best things as
tributes of Xmas remembrance*
Artistic
Gold Jewellery.
We mention below a few of the thousands
of acceptable gifts to be found in this
Department.
Photo Pendants
for hanging on Necklets.
This prettily-de-
signed one, exact
size as shown, in
9et. Gold, ex-
quisitely made
and finished,
price 14s fid. If
quite plain, this
size 8s 6d. Smal-
ler size, 7s fid.
Large size, with
Beads only, 12s
M
M
6d. Large Hearts, 12s 6d. Pearl Set Photo.
Pendants, large size, 21s, 255, 37s 6d. Then
we have the more elaborate gem-set ones in
15ct. gold. All choice designs, and each one
a splendid example of good value. Prices,
£2 17s 6d, .£3, £3 10s, £4, £4 15s, £6.
«
Isct. Gold Brooches ?® al .
V_\_ 1:21.33, “##ka ‘c— '-
‘ ,, '3‘!“ .
Dozens
of
Dainty
Gifts
can be
selected from our choice stock of Pearl
Brooches. Many exclusive designs can be
seen. The one we show here—a New Moon
with twin hearts, set with fine quality real
pearls, costs £2. Lots of other styles
equally pretty at £llss, £2 10s, £3 3s. Some
lovely Spray Brooches at £2 17s 6d, £3 10s,
£4 10s, £5 ss, £7 7s, £8 10s, £9 10s. Only the
finest of real pearls used in the manufacture
of these.
Opals.—Some lovely designs in Opal
Brooches can be seen here in 9ct. mountings,
14s 6d, 255; in 15ct., 37s 6d, 455, 50s, up to £3O
for a magnificent, large-size, oblong stone of
peculiar beauty, set in a fine 15ct. gold mount.
ki 10s.
Fine
Gem
Rings
10*.
Our Ring Stock represents, the best designs
of English and Continental Artists, while the
Diamonds and other gems used are perfect in
brilliance and color. Each ring is made of
18ct. gold, some as low as £1 ss, set with
such stones as pearls, rubies and sapphires.
Diamond half-hoops of 5 stones, exquisitely
fashioned, at £5 ss, Al 10s, £lO 10s, and up,
by easy stages, to £5O. Some lovely specimens
of all Diamond Marquise Rings at £l6 10s,
£l9 10s, £24 10s, £3O, £47 10s, £55.
Call or Write for our Christmas Catalogue.
M
I
A SPECIAL
MARQUISE RING
we show is of large size, set with lovely,
white, brilliant Diamonds with a row of
fine color Sapphires or Rubies running down
the centre. We have never been able to offer
such value before, and the kings look worth
more than the price £l6 10s. The same style
in a smaller size for 10s. Our show of
Gem Set Rings, suitable for engagements or
for dress wear, is unequalled, while our
premier position in the Stone Market in
Hatton Garden, London, ensures excellent
values to all buyers.
Surprise Your Wife
this Christmas by giving
her a fine
Vase or Centre
Piece for the Table. You
know nothing will please
most women more than a gift
of this sort. The very hand-
some Cut-Glass and Silver-
plated one we illustrate
stands 21 inches high, and
can be used for both fruit
and flowers. Price £3 15s.
Silver-mounted Glass Vases
“v 7"
Run;
1,)
l t
J
7_ : .-_-:_._,
$.22
1
M
xx" - 1
n
i A I
. . P:
”£94411.” 4 '
, , ‘.-' ".
. K
for as little as half-a-crown. The favorite
Solid Silver Trumpet-topped Vases in all the
wanted sizes running in price so —15s 6d, 21s,
255, 30s.
Some exquisitely designed large size silver-
plated and decorated centre pieces for fruit
and flowers at £lO 10s, £ll 10s, £l2 10s.
Others in glass and silver plate at £2 2s, £3,
£3 10s.
€6.47. ‘ Ll: ‘
'i’; “ TAM/g]
Purses
Make
Sensible
Gifts-
especial ly
the kind
we sell—English, made of the best of suitable
leathers and mounted with solid silver only.
No nickelled locks and silver corners, as sold
so widely elsewhere. Prices for long-wear
silver-mounted purses, 8s 6d, 9s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 14s 6d, 16s. 6d, 18s. 6d, 21s, 255, 27s 6d.
Gold-mounted Purses at £1 12s 6d, £1 15s,
£1 17s 6d.
SOflE EXCLUSIVE PURSES—
Nothing like them to be seen elsewhere in
Australia. Absolutely the best makes and
mounted with solid silver in the quaintest
styles. Some with strap round centre; others
in combination purses and card oases. Three
prices only, 21s, 22s 6d, 255, and well worth
a third more. We secured them at under
market values and give you the full benefit.
♦
Trinket Hair Pin Boxes
Pretty enough to brighten up any girl’s dress-
ing-table. You
can’t give them
too many of
these. There
is always room
for just one
more. In many
dainty styles,
some oblong,
some oval, and
esV
others square. This quaintly-shaped Jewel
Case or Trinket Box, best silver-plated, satin-
lined, free by post, 255. All Jewel Cases are
satin-lined. Prices, 18s 6d, 21s, 255. and 30s.
Hairpin Boxes in the best silver plate, 8s 6d,
11s 6d, 12s 6d.
Silver-Mounted Hair Pin Boxes.
The one shown here is 4 innh'-'o Inns', of fine
Cut Glass with a
Solid Silver Lid,
price 10s 6d.
Another fine line
is in bottle-shape,
4 ■ «
m
m
fine Cut Glass, with handsome Chased Silver
Top, 5s.
hsm.
Pretty Little Things
FOE
Pretty Little Babies
AT
Pretty Little Prices.
Ifc is every mother’s
duty at Christmas time
to remember the baby.
Babies can appreciate a
present quite as much
as the grown - ups,
and if it is bought at
Stewart Dawson and Co.’s, the expenditure
won’t be much.
These hints :
Silver Rattles : 4a, 4s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d
~ Bangles: Is, Is 6d, 2s, 3s, 3s 6d
~ Spoons : 12s 6d, 16s 6d, in Cases
„ Plated Cup :8s 6d, 10s 6d, 11s 6d, 12s 6d
„ ~ Spoon, in Case: 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d
We have lots of other things to show you
when you come in.
Our Stock of Gifts
for HEN
contains things suitable for every
age and condition of life, and our
‘ - . [I r
[[3ng HF ‘l
‘ 1 ‘ M, /
prices for them are lower, quality
for quality, than any other house. Match
Boxes are popular at these prices. Solid
Silver, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d. Silver
Cigarette Case, 255, 27s 6d, 80s, 355, 40s.
Gold ones for £lO 10s and £l2 10s. A Solid
Silver Card Case at 18s 6d is a sensible gift.
Then we have Leather Cigar and Cigarette
Cases, Cigar Holders, Cigarette Tubes,
Billiard Chalk Holders, Gold Links and Studs,
Rings, Bins, and, last but not least, the finest
collection of Good Gold, Silver, and Steel
, Cased Watches to be found anywhere. We
issue a Special Catalogue of them, which is
posted free to all who are interested.
SERVIETTE RINGS.
These are the things used regularly daily, and
as such are sure to be appreciated by anyone.
Prices
in
Solid
Silver,
5/6, 6/6,
7/6, 8/6,
10/6,
12/6,
13/6.
M
Prices
in
Silver
Plate,
4/-, 4/6,
5/-, 6/6.
Every style is included in a really very fine
oollection we show.
k
‘ .1"
SOnE PRETTY
LACE PINS.
These make excellent little
Gifts for joung girls, and for
the older ones as well, for that
matter. Just right for fasten-
ing a piece of delicate lace. In
9ct. Gold, with Chain, and
Bell, Bean, or Heart Pendant,
for 3s 6d. Bell or Bean, in
larger sizes, at 4s 6d and 7s 6d.
Wishbone, 5s 6d. Chased
Heart, 5s 6d. Leaf top with
Emu or Kangaroo Pendant, 7s 6d. With
Amethyst or Greenstone top and Bean, Heart
or Bell Pendant, 6s 6d. Then those with the
new Scent Pendants —quite a pretty conceit —
9s 6d, 10s 6d, 11s 6d, and 12s 6d.
A Good Travelling
Companion
is one of our fine
Leather and Silver-plated
FLASKS.
With screw top, the prices
run—9s 6d, 11s 6d, 13s 6d,
15s 6d, 16s 6d, 17s 6d,
18s 6d, 22s 6d; with the
patent bayonet top, 30s,
g
, ‘;.:>‘_§.Tazgc.ézj? 7‘
w“ "‘
a W
H I“
4 w
I H! Jw
32s 6d, 355, 40s, 455, 555, 60s.
Call or Write for our Christmas Catalogue*
M
STRAND CORNER, GEORGE S
31--M.KWH
BEAUTIFUL
GOLD
BANGLES
The useful and inexpensive
kinds are here in great
variety. All the fads and
fancies are looked after as
well, because we cater to
suit all ideas. The finer
kinds, handsome and lux-
urious Diamond and Gem
set ones, so suitable for
Christmas Gifts, are also in
evidence.
The Bamboo Bangles—
9et. gold, 27s fid, 37s 6d, 555.
15ct. gold, 555, 755, 90s.
The Nellie Stewart
Bangles 9ct. gold, 50s,
70s, 84s, £5. 15ct. gold, £4,
£5 10s, £6 10s, £7 10s.
*/
V
nr?
m
m
SSL
*
00
s
as
The Cable Bangles—9ob. gold, £2, £2 15s,
.£3 10s. 15ct. gold, £3 15s, £5, £6 6s.
Then we have the Band Bangles at 255,
27s 6d, 80s, 355, £2, £2 ss. And dozens upon
dozens of all the latest Fancy Styles at from
25s to £7 10s. The exquisite 15ct. gold and
fine opal Half Hoop Bangle as shown here is
priced at .£lO 10s, and surely it will meet with
approval by people of refined taste. Diamond
and Ruby, Emerald, Sapphire, Pearl, Opal
Bangles in a profusion of exquisite styles.
A DAINTY DIAMOND
CRESCENT BROOCH
A Favorite Style this, and
set with sparkling white Dia-
monds of special purity. Size
as pictured, £l5 10s. Larger
size, £26 10s.
. "‘ 43H.
'h
(9,:
.w’
nag;
' . “.6“?!
"‘k“ aw
Silver
Toilet Necessaries.
The woman who has nobody to think of but
herself, and the woman who has somebody to
think of and for her, both enjoy the possession
of Silver Toilet things. Silver Brushes and
Sparkling Cut Glass Bottles and Boxes on a
Toilet Table are pleasing to look at, and if
bought here are easily bought, for are not our
prices taken all round the most favorable price
obtainable ? Some prices to help you decide :
.. ’KNVWA” $25-51? .
n ~55" A"! . / 1w“
Q¥§ﬁ €3~§0.)\ 7,.
ayawiv gm.
,rﬂimﬂ/ZMM‘ -\\\I
W} “ V\"'\;V :‘thi-l . ‘ t I“ 3“"
441:5?» 11‘ 11W] ILI‘ u‘,‘ ‘l T I l‘ 1" I ‘S‘VMWA
MV‘ ‘ I .“ “NM “1 ‘ ‘1 k 2 ‘
MM”) 19?: iﬁw WW Fm M“ ‘0” M i
Solid
Silver
Hair
Brushes
16s 6d, 18s
6d, 21s, 22s
6d, 255, 30s,
355, 40s, 425. We stock none of the flimsy
rubbish so extensively advertised now-a-days.
We have no room for these. A reliable article
at a price that is fair is our motto. Silver-
mounted Combs, 3s, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 8s 6d,
10s 6d, 12s 6d. Fine Quality real Shell
Combs, with handsome Silver Mounts, £1 2s
6d, £1 ss. Silver Cloth Brushes, 9s 6d,
15s 6d, 16s 6d, 18s 6d ; large size with handle
£2 10s—a sort of family Cloth Brush. Silver-
Mounted Ebony Hair Brushes, 10s 6d, 14s 6d.
Mirrors to match, 8s 6d and 10s 6d. Cloth
Brushes, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d. Mens’ Military
Brushes in Ebony, with silver mounts, two in
a leather travelling case for 21s, 255, or loose,
9s 6d and 10s 6d each. Brushes in cases in
every style and at all prices. A particularly
fine set is in the exquisite cherub style, four
Brushes, Mirror and Comb, for £8 Bs.
CUTE LITTLE
CHARHS
All the curious as well as
lovely styles find a present-
ment in our unexcelled stock
of these popular gifts for
Xmas. They come in every
shape and style you can think
of, and many you could never
I; ‘3‘-
‘iﬂ ’\
j” I
think of. Gold Puss in Boot, as here pictured,
8s 6d. Rat in Hat, 8s 6d. Pipe, 8s 6d. Old
Boot, 6s 6d. Anchor, 8s 6d. Greenstone
Battleaxe, 8s 6d. Hearts, 3s 6d, 4s 6d, 5s 6d,
6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, up to £75. A multitude
of styles—some plain, some set with stones;
but all new, all pretty, and all good value. A
choice line of Gold and Pearl Fancy Pendants
in new designs, 22s 6d, 255, 355, 425, 555.
Some of them with Turquoises in conjunction
with the Pearls.
4
GOLD
CROSS PENDANTS.
Some plain, others chased. Some in 9ct.
gold, others in 15ct. All prices—7s 6d, 8s 6d,
9s 6d, 12s 6d, 13s 6d, 18s 6d, 22s 6d, 255,
425, 455.
Gift Suggestions »t Stewart Dawson’s
Gift Suggestions at Stewart Dawson’s


2
£
MacH iff tav Store
ffEAD Office
BRISBANE.
a.sa
SMELLIE&
Li il l
111
HH
VALLE.-/
SSI
QueehslaKd
TWNsViat.
RTH
imam
3W
BRISBANE and TOWNSVILLE
LONDON OFFICE—NEW BROAD STREET HOUSE, LONDON, E.C.
WHOLESALE IRONMONGERS and HARDWARE MERCHANTS,
Importers of Machinery and Agricultural Implements.
/*
Sme
its
Jr-*;
*
Principal Warehouse and Head Office—Edward and Alice Streets, Brisbane.
Robey & Co.’s Portable Engines
Horizontal Steam Engine*.
High Speed
Engines for
Electric Lighting
Boilers.
Sole Queensland Agents
Snow Duplex Bteam Pumps*
Plantation Weigh-Bridge.
Truck Wheels and Mining Requisites
Now Globe Kero*
sene Oil Engine.
Aermotor Wind-
mills, Pumps, &c.
Winding: and Underground
Haulage Engines.
Horse Gears, &o.
Engineers’ Tools and Bcr*wlng
Tackle.
;
Saw Mill and Joinery Machinery.
owers and Reapers and Harvesting
implements.
Blacksmiths’ Tools.
WE KEEP AT BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE ~
Heavy Stocks of Machinery for the Farm, Station, Sugar Planter, Mining Industry, or Manufacturer; Iron-
mongery for Builders’ or Household Use ; Stoves and Ranges, Cutlery, Ship Chandlery, Hollow-Ware, Blacksmiths’
and Carriage Builders’ Supplies; Rod, Bar and Sheet Iron, &c., Always on Hand.
Centrifugal Pumps, Snow Duplex Steam Pumps,
Aermotor Windmills, Pumps for Hand or Horse Power,
Sawmill Machinery, Agricultural Implements, &c.
FULL STOCKS KEPT AT BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
ORDERS CAN BE SENT TO WHICHEVER PLACE IS MOST CONVENIENT.
Pearns’ Manchester
Boiler Feed Pumps.
N2OO
Disentegratcrs or
Bone Milis.
mm-
m®
k ; m
:
'h
1! §m
iisi
m
mMiSMSm
■
mm
S :
■
PREMisesfTovyKSViitE


.
■ •• •
.... :
/
v
:vwr-,,v «. ..
m
» i; .■• /■•■ £r';
....
ssbs*
;' .
**:- * - :
m
rm
i
• y,"
Jg
,m 7;
SMS
V
■ases
■ H 1 i
■lH’/-''
. m-'.i
»
I?-'? •;
--
a*
Wm>,i£'ZyM
v
i
SCS&s
.JHR/i
LIS
1
Si
»-£iSg
j.
//'
555
y
;§g§i
c
■i
. «
/
pr-...
«
<3*iK
553
/
%
//
•:.f
■ ■■ /
*
':\4
m
r+
m:
■ ' ~ -'» ,y, '--L <
2 ■"
\ A
/
......... ..... y..}
tsr-
HPSfiii
«<!>
m -' %'
•£ w
.
! .* xC
m
-
~. .. ,
■
'<>* * 1
- - . ... ..,


CHRISTMAS
BULLETIN
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 24.-No. 1243.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 10, 1903.
Pbiok 6d.
A DROUGHT-RESISTING STOCK.
THE AUSTRALIAN OF THE FUTURE, WHO WILL ONLY CARRY A BILLY THROUGH FORCE OF HABIT.


The Bulletin
Tlift National Australian Newspaper
" A ustralia for the A ustrallans.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance, only)
Err Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
1! alf-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 0
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
EOT107!.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have Tub Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
lobe addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressea to the Editor.
v Special Entice.
The contents of tins paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the. contents of this number, is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The V'.ditor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the "Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, SOOO words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
dippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
Tub Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in. JtlacJe and White.
Anyone supplying to Tub Bulletin original humorous
nr other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e.,any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. ’The conditions under which
such artistic' contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa — Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal; Solomon
and Wilson, 22 flout St., Capetown; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
Ceylon. —Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver
B.C.
Hong Kono. —Brewer and Co., 22 Queens Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai.— Brewer and Co.
ZhxzlZeZztfi.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 10, 1903.
Dutchy’s Monkey Shop.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HUMBERT, the Dago, frowns upon the
passing gangs of Lascars, for they
desire not his oysters nor his wine.
Humbert’s oyster-shop overlooks the quay where
the big-breasted ships lean towards the pave-
ment. The Thug stoker from the Hoogli,
the Hongkong coolie with contraband cigars
bulging under his plague-stricken shirt, pass
Humbert’s oysters with Eastern serenity. The
coolie may afterwards become a lolly-mer-
chant ; the Thug will develop into a quack doctor
and line his front window with foreign diplomas.
A turn brings one to the Chinese shops, where
the White Girl sits with her half-caste child.
The very dogs have a Mongolian look, and the
smells wave like Asiatic banners.
Dutchy’s monkey-shop is ten strides from Yun
Ling’s opium-house. A negro, bargaining with a
yellow Chow across the hot smells, is a reposeful
picture; but the White Girl on the steps makes
one turn and look again.
Dutchy stands near the cage that holds the big
scarlet parrot; when he smiles upon you for the
first time it is a sign that he wishes to know you,
and when he has known you for several minutes
he will sell you an emu, or maybe a dog. Dutchy
wants to sell me a dog. “Step into der shop,
mine friendt. Does id nod remind you of der
forest?”
Dutchy stooped and caught* up a tiny ape,
perched on a kangaroo’s cage, and stroked it
between the ears. “ Dis vas Black Jenny. She
travels mit der organ sometimes und collects
pennies for Pietro, der Dago. He goes on der
wine und pawns her mit us. She vas cheap at
tree ponds. She vill play mit childrens.
“ Feed vas dear ; we do not ke§p kanga-
roos now. Black Jenny like.der kangaroo in cold
weather. One night when she shiver mit cold
she creep into der kangaroo-house und climb into
der female’s pouch. Der kangaroo go mad until
I come down und see der little monkey face
peepin’ at me from underneath. Der kangaroo
did buck a lot. Dey vas not friendts now.
“ Der Lascars und Krooboys coom here to sell
green parrots and monkeys. Last year Lai
Chundra come here mit an old-man ape dot he
stole from one of der tembles somewlieres in
India. My fader did not want to buy because
der monkey look shoost like an old man midout
clothes. But Lai Chundra put der monkey
through a lot of tricks, and my fader bought him
to sell again to der circus beobles. Der next day
a crowd of Lascars ran into dcr shop und swear dot
we have Han, der monkey-god, hidden away
in der cellar. Den my fader say, ‘Pooh,
pooh,’ und pull out old Han from under der
’possum’s cage, and dey screech mit rage.
My fader say he bring in der bolice if dey
continue der noise. Der Lascars cry one to
anoder, sayin’ dot Lai Chundra had defiled der
caste. But my fader would not let Han go
widout der money. ‘No money, no monkey,’he
say. Und dey hand over five ponds before he let
Han go. A Lascar mit colored hair put Han in a
green silk cage dot vas like a palanquin, und dey
gife him sweetmeats und nuts as dey took him
between them to der ship. Dey vas a strange
beobles to think dot a hairy thing vat eats nuts
could he a god. One week after, der water-
bolice did find Lai Chundra under der rocks, by
Macquarie’s Chair, dead, mit his neck swollen
und three black marks on his forehead. Sven
Christensen say it vas der sign of der Ganges
Thugs.
“ Sven, und Borka der Finn, come to us about
twice a year mit animals und birds. Dey own a
schooner and dey work der way up to der Gulf
und down by der cedar forests of der Nord Coast.
Borka der Finn is a giant mid short legs. He
goes to shleep mit der animals. He always haf a
bottle of rum in one pocket und a kangaroo
rat in der oder. He haf live shnalces inside
his shirt.
“ ‘ Bring me a cassowary when you go to der
Gulf, Sven,’ says my fader. ‘I could do mit a
diamond shnake or two; dey brings beobles to my
vindow.’
“ ‘ Yah, yah,’ says Sven. * But der cassowary
play hell mit der schooner’s ribs. Der last one I
bring smash der binnacle und eat der steerin’
gear. Dey vas expensive passengers.’
“ ‘ I shall give up soilin’ monkeys dis year,’says
my fader. ‘Dey pine like childrens und die.’
Dere vas no brofit in dem. One died last year
und leave her babe to us; und der leedle ting
crawl about for der warm blace to hide until
we put it mit der ’possums. My fader say, ' I
tink it vill die because it vill not eat.’ My moder
watch it for a while, den, when she tink no one
see her, she take it into der room where my broder
Wilhelm was lyin’ in der cradle. When she come
out again mit der leedle ting in her arms, my
fader says, ‘Vrow, I tink you hat suckled it to
life.’ ‘ Hush ! Jan,’ says my moder, mit her face
quite red. ‘Hush, hush!’ ‘Yah, yah,’ says
Sven, und he walk over to der cage where Black
Jenny sit watchin’ him.
“ ‘ C’hk, c’hk, c’hk, chrrr ! ’ she says to Sven,
puttin’ her hand troo the bars. Sven held her
fingers tor a while, und talk back to her mit a
clickety click of his tongue. ‘ C’hk, c’hk, c’hrrr,’
says Black Jenny.
“‘Yah, yah, leedle womans,’ he says, takin’
her from der cage. ‘ How did id all happen, eh ? ’
Und she talk to him mit her eyes und mouth like
der frikened leedle womans who haf met a friend.
“ ‘ What does she say, Sven ? ’ my moder ask.
We know dot Sven onderstan’ der monkey-talk,
for he haf been a great traveller in der African
forests.
‘“She is not happy,’ he says to my moder.
‘She vas taken from her river-forest by Arab
slave-hunters. Somevheres near der Congo, I
tinks.’
“ ‘ She cries at night,’ says my moder, ‘ when I
wakens to suckle Wilhelm.’
“ ‘ It is for her beobles in der forest,’ says Sven,
strokin’ mit his hand. ‘For der Arab slave men
kill her sister, und trow her babe into der river.’
“Und big Sven give Black Jenny a sweetmeat
from his pocket, und he hold her a leedle while
shoost as a big man somedimes hold a child.
“ My moder vas good to Jenny after what Sven
say. She know dot he onderstan’ der monkey
beobles quite well.
* * * *
“ Der sailor mans come in here from all parts ;
der Chilian mit parrots, der Chinaman mit der
crawlin’ beetles und dragon-flie3 dot vas big as
chickens. A mulatto from Honduras did once
hide a box of shnakes in his bunk, und dey got
loose on der run from Honolulu. When de ship
get to port der crew was mad ; dey vas bein’
towed in a boat astern, for dey would not live on
der ship mid der shnakes runnin’ from yard to
yard und over der decks. Der captain und his
Philippino mate had tied der mulatto, head down,
from der cross-trees.
“Do you vant to buy a dog ? Oh, veil I vill
tell you about der wolf dot Borka der Finn bring
from der Nord. Someone tell Borka dot der Zoo
beobles gife a hondred pounds for a dog-wolf.
Borka never say where he catch der grey wolf, but
Sven tell us dot he was one of der pack dot drag
childrens from droskies und sledges on der Upper
Danube. Borka haf droble mit der customs
beoble, und after he get der wolf ashore der Zoo-
mans would not buy. Borka had der wolf in a
hen-coop, and he roll along der sthreed mit id on
his shoulder. Der beoble tink it vas a grey dingo,
und dey follow Borka in hundreds. But der
sthreet dogs would not go near de hen-coop when
Borka rested it on der pavement.
“My fader buy de wolf cheap from Borka
because he tink it bring der beobles in crowds
about der shop.
“We haf a bull-dog und his name is Beel. Beel
roll about der sawdust on der floor und play mit
der childrens all day. Der men kick Beel all over
der place. Beel only look up at dem und wag his
tail. Beel haf nefer barked dis year. My fader
tell him dot barkin’ frikens der leedle monkeys.
“Beel is our shopwalker; he keeps watch over
der monkeys und birds. One day a big mongrel
retriever run in und rush at Black Jenny. Beel
was asleep, but he woke up quick when Jenny
call out. He took der retriever by der ear and
run him outside where he deal mit him on der
footpath. Beel never scraps in der shop, he was
afraid of makin’ der mess. He pull all der dogs
outside und rush dem against der trams.
“Beel had a scrap mit a kangaroo-hound last
year; dey fought all de way to der Glebe —Beel
holdin’ by his neck all der time, und Beel never
let go ’till dey reach der abattoirs. Den he pick
a fight mit anoder big dog, und dey fight all de
way back to town mit Beel ridin’ on his neck.
Beel would sooner fight than walk, he get a ride
for nodings that way. Der butcher next door
offer us tree pounds for Beel. He say he was over-
run mit old man dog 3 who come in und steal der
sirloin of beef when he go out for der beer. He
would like Beel to sit all day in front of der beef.
“ When Borka der Finn brought in der hen-coop
mit der wolf inside Beel looked at der wolf und
den at my fader. *ld vas alride, Beel, ’ says my
fader; *he vas only a new boarder from Russia.’
Den he turn to my moder and say, ‘ Gretchy, you
keep der childrens from dis cage.’
“ Beel lay in front of der hen-coop mit his chin
in der sawdust. Der wolf look at Beel und Beel
look at der wolf all day. If a burglar had tried to
steal der wolf I tink Beel would have run for de
bolice.
“ One day a Jew bookmaker came into der shop
for some pigeons to shoot, und when he see Beel
und der wolf lookin’ into each Oder’s eyes he say,
‘ Holy crikey, I lay ten to one.’ He go avay, but
come again next day mit a lot of oder bookmakers
und dey speak a long time mit my father until my
fader say, ‘ Dis shop vas not a bear-pit, shentle-
mans, but I admits it would be a rybuck scrap.
Make it ten ponds, shents, und I lend you der
shed in der back yard.’
“Beel did get up from der wolf’s cage und go
among der bookmakers vaggin his tail. Der wolf
sit on his haunches und sniff through his long
snout at der sight of so many Jews. *-1 lay 20 to
1 de wolf,’ says Solly Cohen, openin’ a book.
‘Anybody want to back Beel? Any price Beel.’
“ Der bookies make a lot of bets among dem-
selves und I notice that der Jews all back der grey
wolf. Borka der Finn lift up der hen-coop und
carry it to der shed in der yard. Den he put it
against der vindow, opened der coop-door und der
wolf hopped out into der shed. Beel followed
Bjrka, vaggin’ his tail all der time, while der
bookies make jokes about his short legs und der
wide gap in his face.
“Der wolf trotted round der empty shed mit
his shark’s eyes on everytings. I could see by his
long legs dot he could fly like der wind. He
sniffed at der shut door, den stood mit his tail
against der vail, looking at Solly Cohen through
an open window.
“ ‘ Twenty to one der wolf ! ’ shouts Solly,
gettin’ red in der face. 4 Any price Beel! *
“‘Where do bulldogs go ven dey die?’says
one.
“ Der childrens vas all cryin’ in der shop when
dey hear dot Beel have to fight der wolf. Beel
stood between my fader’s legs, mit his tail goin’
like der lightnin’.
“ ‘ Twenty to one der wolf ! ’ shouts Solly.
‘Vere vas England when der wolf came out?
Any price Beel!'
“ ‘ Der tog haf no chance,’ says Borka der
Finn. 4 Der wolf vill play cunning und den keel
him.’
“ Beel look up at der bookmakers as if he was
tryin’ to find out his price. My fader put three
ponds on Beel und I run to der children’s money-
box und put it" all on der dog.
“ 4 In with Beel,’ says Solly. My fader opened
der shed door, und looked at der dog. 4 Der vas
a shentleman in here, Beel, vants to spheak mit
you.’ Beel vas through der door before I get der
money in Solly’s hand.
“Der wolf whipped round, den lift his grey
snout und yelp twice. For a short, heavy dog,
Beel was quick on his feet, und I could see by der
joy in his tail dot he had been dreamin’ about der
fight. Der wolf scuttle from him mit a snarl, den
he begin to jump about der shed like an acrobat,
snatchin’ over his shoulder mit his long, sharp
teeth.
“ 4 He vill fight like dot,’ says Borka, 4 und no
oder way. He vill kill der tog.’
“ Beel could not make it out. Der wolf snatched
and snatched over his shoulder und leap away.
Beel was covered mit blood, und he could only
waddle after der grey hoodlum dot bit und ran.
44 4 Any price Beel,” says Solly mit his nose
hangin’ like a purse through der window. 4 Gif
der dog a biled turnip,’ lie says.
“Every time der long snout snapped over der
shoulder, skin und blood came from Beel’s back.
Beel chased him round und round, his tail goin’
like a whip und der blood soakin’ his eyes und
ears. Der wolf skip away. I think he had seen a
mouth like Beel’s somewhere before.
“Den Beel try to mix himself mid der wolf’s
legs und trip him, but der wolf was shy und would
only take flyin’ bites at Beel. At last Beel lose
his vind und he lie on der floor blowin’ like der
bellows.
44 4 Anybody vant to buy a dog ? ’ says Solly—
-4 a dog vat died ’cause he couldn’t get a bite in
edgeways. ’
44 Der wolf stopped in der corner und looked at
Beel lyin’ on der floor. Den he come nearer mit
his ears cocked und his tail out stiff. He put out
his paw und touched Beel. I never tink der wolf
so cunning. He walk away und come back mit
his green eyes shinin’ und his long snout askin’
questions. He reached out mit his paw und
touched Beel on der back und ribs. But Beel lie
on der floor with all der life out of his tail, und his
body quite stiff. But der wolf was not sure dot
he vas dead, und he cry through his nose und
walk round und round. Den he try Beel again
on der shoulder mit his paw, und on der head;
den he make a gentle dab at Beel’s nose, und dot
vas de end ov it. Beel’s mouth opened like de
door of a house, und de long grey paw fell in up
to der knee.
“ 4 It vas not fair ; it vas a schlanter,’ screamed
Solly der Jew.
“ Beel, mit his short legs close together, held
de wolf to him like a nurse, und he vas horribly
quiet, und make no noise. Den der beobles in
der sthreet heard der wolf yelp to his pack on der
Upper Danube to come und help him gvick. It
vas like der cry of an old man, und it make me
sick. Den Beel begin to sing like a man at his
work mit der wolf’s body across him, und der
pain of Boel’s jaw in his eyes.
“ 4 Anybody want to buy a wolf?’ says my
fader. Den der bookies what backed der
wolf feel in der pockets und say der fight vas
a swindle, until a man named Jeem Smit hit one
of dem a terrible punch on der waistcoat. Den
all pay up.
“Hogan, der boliceman who chase der girls
from der coffee-stall, come along de oder night
mit his chest across der footpath. Der vas too
much pride about Hogan, und shoost as he go
past der pie-shop a man on der roof drop a dead
wolf on his shoulders. It vas a hot night, und
someone yells out—‘ Yah Hogan, it vas dree days
off der ice-chest.’ Hogan carried der dead wolf
into der pie-s’nop, und ask der boss what der
flamin’ nuisance he mean by obstructin’ der
atmosphere mit his stale refreshments. He sum-
moned der shopman, und der beak fined him ten
bob for heavin’ dead pie-meat at der law.”
Herewith Dutchy led me past the black swan’s
quarters to where a small bull-pup rolled in its
box of straw. Dutchy lifted it tenderly and
placed it in my arms.
“He vas cheap at a pond. Beel vas his fader.
Don’t you tink he vas cheap at a pond?”
I thought so, and I walked homeward with the
son of Bill in my coat pocket.
ALBERT DORRINGTON.
Ballade of Dead Youth.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
LO ! the day is dead and done,
Cometh darkness shivering far,
Drowning blind and feeble sun :
All is void and not a star
Peering through the drenching haze;
All is desolation, all!
(Let me dream of distant days,
With my face against the wall.)
Sullen skies are cold and low,
Breathing storm and dripping tears ;
Raging clouds hurl to and fro,
Wild winds shake the hemispheres.
Shadowy things my being craze,
Taunting voices clink and call—
(Let me dream of distant days,
With my face against the wall.)
In the lustre shine of morn,
At the breaking of the day,
Lo ! the rose had ne’er a thorn,
And the time was always May ;
Full of buds and bursting lays,
From the wide woods straigh t and tall -
(Lo, I dream of distant days,
With my face against the wall.)
Bees a-down the clover field
Boomed athwart the golden lands;
High and low the swallows wheeled ;
Blushing youth with generous hands
Filled my lap with flowery-sprays,
Crimson fruit ripe to its fall—
(Lo, I dream of distant days
With my face against the wall.)
Joy, wide-eyed, soft-kissed my mouth
With her full lips honey-sweet—
Ah, the zephyrs from the South
Whispering to the leaning wheat,
Stealing down the alley-ways,
Where the wildering roses crawl —
(So I dream of distant days
With my face against the wall.)
Scented dawns in grey and gold
Rose to woo me from the Dreams,
Shot their sun-shafts through the cold,
Lifting, shroud-like, from the streams
Till my cheeks began to blaze,
And the love-birds’ throats to call—
(So I dream of distant days,
With my face against the wall.)
At my smile the world was gay,
Flushed with laughter sweet and strong;
Pleasure strewed my wanton way,
With a clustering primrose throng,
Dying proudly in my gaze
Till the mellow twilight-fall—
(So I dream of distant days,
With my face against the wall.)
Love and laughter, song and sun,
Dreaming dusks and dawns sublime,
Rest and ruth when day was done
At the throbbing even-chime.
And the nightbird’s splendid praise
Stung me like a glory-call—
(So I dream of distant days,
With my face against the wall.)
Ah ! the tender summer moon,
Ere the dews of God ran white,
Sparkling in the long lagoon,
Lavish of her lovely light!
Ah ! the glamor of her gaze
On my path majestical!
(Lo ! I dream of distant days
With my face against the wall.)
Then the sun broke shivering sore,
And I woke me, sere and old ;
Soft life gone for evermore,
Weak eyes winking in the cold,
And the grey ghosts came to gaze
On my white youth’s funeral pall—
(Ah, the sad and olden days,
And the Shadow on the wall.)
All the noon was dark and drear,
Yet there comes the night to sleep,
And the even-tide is here.
Still outside the tempests sweep
Thundering down celestial ways,
Still the gloom is over all, —
(Pass, 0 sad and olden days !
Pass, O Shadow on the wall.)
Lo, my years are dead and done,
Darkness hovers near and far,
Blotting out the feeble sun ;
All is night-time ; not a star ;
Shadowy things my being craze.
Distant tiny voices call, —
(Ah, the dying of all days !
Ha ! the Light against the wall.)
Q.
C. L.RIVERS.


The Nillbong Water.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Things were just as bad as they could be in Nill*
bong; at least, folks thought so; but that was
only in the second year of the drought. Not a
horse to ride; not a cow to milk. A few stud
sheep lingering along in the horse paddock, keep-
ing up a feeble life on leaf-pickings and two
pounds of hay a-day; ten thousand eating their
heads off in the hills ; the rest gone. The garden a
waste; and every flower of hope and joy withered
in the house, except Elsie—Elsie Barr.
John Barr was up to his throat, after 15 years
of it. Very soon he expected the floods of disas-
trous finance to go over him, as the sand had gone
over all the fences out on the red ground. And
then
Ay ! There came Tom, walking ahead of the
bullocks; a single yoke, dragging in a load of dead
wool. “ Tom is a good lad ; good as ever stepped.”
Will and Les. were down in Sydney at school.
Barr had a reminder in his pocket from the prin-
cipal of that sohool. Little Mag and Hughie were
at Mother’s skirts, actually pining—he knew
it—for lack of such things as tenderly-nurtured
ohildhood requires. And Mother, growing
sallow and grey in her fortieth year—God! it
seemed but yesterday that they spun away from
tho Leigh with the rice in their hair and the old
shoes flying behind them.
Men who have lived a bit, only think that way
in the evening. Some spirit of that time breaks
the seals of memory, and waters, bitter as those of
Marah, flow.
. The long pine ridge stood out against the West,
its crest jagged like a gapped saw. Hard as steel
it appeared, and the lights came out as on steel
tempering. The framework of the bore was a
mile away east. It had a gaunt, ungodly look.
John Barr had sometimes gone so far as to think
what sort of picture it would make with his own
body suspended from the crosstrees. That was a
bad thought to entertain. Happily, a figure
moving towards him from the bore chased it, as a
good angel drives out a lurking ghoul. It was
Elsie. Elsie with skirt kilted up well out of
the dust, sailor hat, white blouse and cotton
gloves. Elsie, ohoking down all her troubles,
kindling up all her hopes, walking just fast
enough to put a flush of color in her cheeks.
Elsie, who would be in the kitchen two minutes
after she had kissed him, fixing up a little entree
out of the tinned stuff ; making some sort of pud-
ding for the children, sprinkling the parsley she
kept in a box in the empty dairy (and watered
with her tears, poor Mother said) about the pre-
served meat, and decanting water from the bag
on the back-verandah, so that the whisky should
not lose either color or savour.
“Eight hundred, Dad, and the cores exactly as
they were at Lisla. We shall strike it before
twelve hundred, that’s sure.”
“Ay, lass, we should, we should—an’strike rain
before the craok of doom, no doubt. ”
“The last monsoon will never reach us,”
answered Elsie, who had no belief in nursing
fallen hopes. “ We’ll put all our anchors in the
bore. Dad, and ■ -yes, mother, I’m coming like a
bird.”
She was away like a bird, and ten minutes later
Tom, going into the bath, found she had been
there before him. For a clean towel was ready to
his hand, and a measured two gallons of water in
the bucket, and a bit of mosquito-net tied over
the rose that the water might trickle very slowly.
One can get a good washing and cooling out of a
oouple of gallons of water managed that way.
The little dinner was quite a success, and later
on John Barr, over a pipe and a glass, could
hardly realise that he was between the jaws of
a vise of ruin, and that they were closing on him
day by day. There is such glamor in the moon-
light in that country, no matter what the season.
The cooled and luminous atmosphere clothes all
the hideous nakedness of the earth, almost as
effectively as the snow clothes the scorched and
shattered cone of a spent volcano.
Nod ! nod ! about ten. Then awake with a
start. Was it the sneeze or cough of contented
flocks and herds ? Of them he had been dreaming.
No, it was a woman sobbing. It was Mother;
and that was Elsie’s voice in expostulation and
comfort.
“What Nell, woman—never for giving in to it,
eh ? Is aught amiss, Elsie ? ”
“Nothing much,” answered Elsie. “ You will
just take Mother out on the verandah, and in five
minutes I will be with you and we will talk it all
over together.”
So the old folks toddled out, not very cheer-
fully. And Elsie went to her room and dashed
cold water about her face. Then she pulled Tom off
his bed, whereon he had lain down to think a bit,
and gone to sleep—saying to him, “ You come
out and back me up like Hercules. You know it
is the only way.”
The way shortly appeared through certain
correspondence Elsie had carried on with the
principal of that college in Sydney wherein the
boys were provided for. John Barr, not a bit
dull, though badly broken by disaster on disaster,
could very quickly see that only at Elsie’s inter-
cession had the boys been kept there through two
or three quarters ; and that knowledge was bitter
to him. He was so helpless, shorter of actual
cash than the meanest hand on the station.
What could he offer the boys if, as the first
impulse suggested, he brought them out to the
station ? What is station-life when the last saddle-
horse is dead or travelled, the garden blasted, and
the desert right up to the verandah steps ?
The alternative was that Elsie should go. The
college principal was an old friend, or acquaint-
ance. His wife was ailing. He proposed that
Elsie should come down and look after things in
the house. The boys could stay on then for
another year at least, and he could allow Elsie
•640 a year.
A MEDIC AT ADVERTISEMEN T. —(By Hop's Understudy)
“That means that the girl is to hold the plaoe
together,” was John Barr’s comment.
“Thegirl will do her best,’’replied Elsie, “and
the boys must be kept at school. All their lives
depend on it. Tom will always be here with you
and you can do very well without me for a little
while. Even if it is a whole year—things must
change in a year. I firmly believe we shall got
the water within three months, and the moment
it spurts up I will be the Undine of that founr.ain.”
“It is natural that the child should desire to
get away,” said the Mother, a little later on. And
John Barr answered “Ay” only. His mind
maybe was a little more with Elsie’s—Elsie, who,
looking out at the beautiful night on the horrible
land, was wrestling with duty, grimly and deter-
minedly as the old overseer with his thousands of
piteous olamoring mouths and wasting stacks of
forage. She saw duty to those boys at college
first. She must work, and they must fit them-
selves for creditable life, according to the tradi-
tions of the house. She had no fear that Nillbong
would go altogether. In the worst case, her
father, with Tom, would remain in charge; and
that might be the best change, for a little money
would then be available. Her immediate duty was
to the boys. A few years of drudgery in fulfilment
of that duty—and then, there were the little ones
at home. She must be looking to them in a year
or two, for Mother was not very strong or
resourceful.
Glad to get away; yes. Well was it for Elsie
that she had been born glad, and brave and strong.
A child of a time when the gold of the wattles and
the silver of the myalls bordered a pastoral robe
of seemingly endless prosperity; when light was
large and life was glad, and the work of the
mighty gods was manifest in deeds of grace—as
now of horror.
* * • •
Mr. Bilton, 8.A., was not a bit mistaken when
he made that very liberal proposal to Miss Barr,
for Mrs. Bilton was an amiable, but valetudinarian
lady. Elsie sent new life-blood through the old
establishment, whose anaemic condition was rapidly
obtaining notice in parents’ letters. Elsie intro-
duced Will and Les. to a good deal of new disci-
pline, wound up their energy, germinated their
resolve, and made all their apparel decent. Elsie
interviewed the head of the old outfitting firm in
the city, and with such success that a big case
went up to Nillbong, and .therewith so hearty a
letter from the firm that John Barr said, “ We’ll
strike water or get rain, now, before the year
ends."
Elsie contrived also to meet the wife of the
managing director of the financial institution all-
powerful in Nillbong affairs, was asked to dinner
then, and exacted a promise from the Master of
Destiny himself, that, if worst came to worst,
things should be according to her calculations.
And then, according to the subtle fashion in which
the gods mix things on earth, a would-be lord of
her own life came along. Very gallantly, be it
said.
“Y’clad in mail and bright with burnished
steel,” or, if not exactly so, in something like the
best modern apology for such impressive gear.
For young Jack Johnson was a doctor who had
been to S’Africa, and returned with a good deal
of credit and some decoration ; but not, worse
luck, a very clear or practical look-out in the
immediate future. Young brother Jem was at
school, and Jack was himself an old boy. Six feet
was Jack, with moustache like a bar of old gold
on the bronze of his cheeks, blue eyes, a little too
wide and lightly-browed for set purpose, and a
notion that he had done a good deal and begotten
a good many obligations on the part of other
people.
Surely Elsie might be forgiven for her non-
resistance to the conclusion that such a man with
such a record must be worthy of all her little
heart —which, even at his stride along the hall, or
his big bass voice roaring amongst the treble of
the boys, began to make all the pulses of her fair
body beat a rataplan. Poor Elsie !
But why ? While that sunburst was still hot,
and while warmth was requisite to ward off the
chills which came, shock on shock with each
instalment of news from home, there came to
hand a glorious letter. Death in it, but that’s
usual. Naught less than that great-aunt Barr had
gone the way of all flesh and bequeathed the sum
of £2OOO to her great-niece, Elsie. That meant
water for Nillbong, salvation for home ; the roses
blossoming again in Mother’s cheeks, and, next
year, by God’s grace, the buggy spinning once
more into Nillbong town.
“The deuce it does!” said Jack Johnson to
himself. And the next day he and Elsie were
engaged.
A month afterwards he asked : “ Still resolved
to sink your pile in Nillbong, Elsie ? ”
“I wish I had it in my hands to sink now,”
was her answer.
‘ ‘ Doesn’t it strike you that it may be like
putting water into a sieve ? ”
“ I believe it will save Nillbong.”
“ I believe it will do no more good than a flash
of summer rain.”
Elsie’s thumbs began to twitoh ; she looked at
him inquiringly.
“Heaven knows, darling, I would not thwart
you in a single whim; but, can you not see what
that money might mean, if wisely expended, to
you, to us, to everybody ? ”
“ What do you mean ? ”
“I could purchase, for less than that sum, a
practice which would return at once a thousand
a-year, and would grow into more. I would
charge myself with the education of the boys here,
and your father would manage Nillbong.”
‘‘My father an overseer—my father working
for another ! ”
“ I said he would be manager of Nillbong.”
“ Oh, stop ! stop ! —you do not know what you
mean. Go away, Jack ! Go instantly, I say, for
I love you.”
And Jack went. He went further, too, within
a week, for Elsie wrote him a letter. One of the
little letters by which a woman can sometimes
beat all the mean devil out of a man. “Forget
that you have ever said anything to me about that
money, dear Jack, and forgive my anger ; but get
to work instantly. Work—work at anything;
use your really splendid talents, and think how
glorious it will be when you come and take me
away from Nillbong in some spring of a hundred
million flowers. lam yours for ever and ever,
Jack, so you must not mind saying good-bye for a
little while.”
In a week, she had a letter in four lines : “I
have accepted a position as doctor on a railway-
contract, in a mining district. I will come to
Nillbong when the flowers bloom.”
Then Elsie got her money, and a thousand
pounds went to Nillbong. The accounts were
adjusted at the college, and several boxes sent
away to the West. She debated long a 3 to what
had best be done in the summer holidays, and
finally decided that Mother and the little
ones had better come down to the sea. Tom
might come, too, for a month. John Barr, she
knew, was bound to the mast. She would go out
and keep him company with the boys ; just as
well for them to know what the others had to put
up with. Thus Christmas saw them all together
again, and the boys made the old house ring,
though their bikes often enough made the'dry
bones rattle as they scorched across the plains.
The engine hummed away at the bore night and
day, three shifts working. Elsie walked out, in-
spected the bores, and drew happier auguries
after every visit. Mother went back, and the
children forward to health and beauty at Manly.
Tom put in a good deal of time at the wool stores
and got kindly notice at the head-office of the
people in town. John Barr watched the sheep
die, but still perfected his plans for beginning to
save if the water was struck before the rain came.
These plans were for the carrying and distributing
of water over a succession of lignum swamps,
wherein, with an occasional soaking, enough feed
would grow for 5000 sheep. Elsie wanted a drain
cut to the garden and house; six inches deep
would suffice, the ground sloped all the way, and
£3OO would do all, or at least go a long way.
Elsie had more than £6OO remaining. Why hoard
it?
“We are going to pray for rain ” she said t;o the
poor parson, who kept up his rounds on a bicycle.
“ Has the bishop appointed a day for prayer? I
have missed all the news lately.”
“ No ; but Dad has ordered picks and shovels
and put on twenty hands.”
The twenty hands were working and the engine
humming when, in March, Elsie and the boys
went away. And the hands wrought, and the
engine hummed, and the drill went down till
May. Then the grey channels appeared all about
the lignum, and the long red streak across the
plain to the garden-dam. The sun burned, day
by day accumulating horror, and the moon waxed
and waned, and drifts of clouds came up, and
sprinkles of rain fell; but the desolate earth-face
was irresponsive as a skull.
Money was almost exhausted. The managing-
director, after much persuasion, said, “We will
go another 100 ft.—and then ■”
“ And then ? ” echoed Elsie, with a catch in her
throat.
“And then? Why I heard yesterday that
young Jack Johnson has won the hearts of all the
navvies and diggers. He has raised a troop
among the farmers. He is king of the district,
and building up a practice that will want an
assistant before the year is out. I don’t mean to
be personal, you know.”
Elsie smiled, but the light of her eyes shone
through a watery film.
“And that is a good sign, too,” said her com-
forter. “Sun-showere in Sydney, and big water
On Nillbong.”
see*
Big trouble on Nillbong; or so it seemed. Two
men up from town; one to make a final arrange-
ment as to the accounts, the other to see about
shifting the boring-plant. No hurry about it;
all the processes of the drought are slow and sure
as a Chancery suit. But no more work. “What
use in burning up the last of the firewood,” said
the financial man from town. “It will be handy
enough for the house. God knows when you’ll
get bullocks to drag any more in.”
At which Tom fumed, but John Barr replied
simply, “ Ay, ay; what use ?”
We’ll let her cool down in the morning, then,”
said the engine-man.
“ The mailman will be along in the morning,”
said John Barr. “He may bring news from
Wragge that will save us all.”
The mailman brought news, but not from
Wragge. There was a letter from Jack Johnson,
whose engagement to Elsie the boys had published
very loudly. “I have done uncommonly well,”
wrote Jack. “ Had typhoid in a dozen well-to-do
houses, and a big smash-up at the mine amongst
visitors—not a * lodger’ in the lot. And, if Elsie
says the saving of the station depends on a hun-
dred or two, I should be awfully glad if you would
accept the couple of hundred 1 send. I may bo
able to spare more about Xmas.”
“The lass has found a man fit for her.” said
John Barr, but returned the cheque to the
envelope and walked out on the verandah.
“ What’s up over there T” asked the drill-man.
The engine hnd stopped. John Barr, looking
up, saw a couple of men casting off the engine-
belt. There was hurry amongst them. Steam
began to roar from the safety-valve. Suddenly,
the whistle shrieked, accompanying a wild cheer,
and, bofore that ceased, out burst the fountain of
the great deep in a foaming column twenty feet
high.
“Hurrah!” cried Tom, and went across the
garden fence like a kangaroo-dog. The others
followed with more or less haste, but John Barr
was the last, cutting up a pipe of tobacco as he
Went.
..ext morning at daybreak Jemmy, the cook,
was cursing the water, for the garden tank had
overflowed, and it was all about his wood-heap.
But from the verandah a half-dozen men looked
out on the beginning of a new world. All the
acres of the first swamp were silver-spangled
with patches of water. There was a new note
in the bleat of the sheep. There was a new feeling
in the air; and naturally so, for a new creative
day had begun. Very quiokly the spirit of man,
and of woman—for Elsie was there within a
week—began to brood and to purpose, over the
face of the broken-up waters. Two hundred
acres of swamp-land were green within a fort-
night ; the cropped lignum sprouting, the innu-
merable herbs springing. The forage was being
dealt-out liberally to the stud-flock, and Tom was
away to the hills to muster the travellers, and
stand prepared for any movements the changing
prospects might justify.
The place was saved. John Barr knew that
better than any of them, though he said least
about it. With the water a new and negoti'ble
asset had been struck. His debts were com-
paratively trifling, in comparison with the new
prospects. He could hold on now for years. A
good season would clear him ; a couple, with all
their opportunities realised, would enable him to
face the worst extremes of the cycles and to win the
rubber, no matter how the drought-devils played.
He looked himself again, His voice had the old
ring. And, “Elsie, lass,” he roared, one morning ;
“ Elsie, here is something will interest you, I’m
thinking.”
What was it but Jack Johnson’s letter, for-
gotten in the excitement of the time. And what
aid Elsie mean, when she had read it with burning
cheeks and trembling hands, bv saying “He has
saved himself too, and I am glad.”
“Glad! Who wouldn’t be glad to be engaged
to a man like that?” said the Mother.
“But there’s more in it than that, woman,”
answered John Barr musingly.
How much more, even she was never permitted
to know.
Nobody on Nillbong had time or mind for curious
questionings that Spring. Nature, as is her wont
in possibly ascertainable cycles, began to assault
the land with bounty. The firmament above,
while August was young, took up the challenge
of the broken-up deeps below, gathered the clout.s
and shook out their treasures. The creeks ran,
the swamps filled, the whole earth face was soaked,
and the miracle of growth began and continued.
Oh, the joy then to mount and ride fetlock-deep
through the lush herbage, and over the flower-
enamelled slopes to the sand ridge, where the
multitudinous young green shoots made a heaven
of tender daylight; to see the sheet of green right
up at the feet of the brigalow which waved its
white arms in such ghastly menace only a little
while ago; to know that nearly 20,000 sheep were
rolling-fat and putting on big fleeces on the high
ground ; to listen to the clatter of a dozen reaping-
machines busy with the rich harvest on the flats,
and even to catch a whiff of the rank odor of the
ensilage fermenting in the pits. To see the
garden a glory once more, and to work, work,
work (men-folk at least) from the morning to the
evening star. For John Barr had learned the
full lesson of the bush at last. Other bores
were going down, dams building on the creeks,
barbed-wire rising about 10,000 acres of mulga
and saltbush country, to be held in reserve against
the thin years, which would surely return; and
lucerne sprouting in new furrows on sand ridges
and irrigable flats. .
The brunt of it was over before Christmas came.
The plains, all brown and grey then, but blan-
keted with a winter’s stock of food for three times
the stock the station carried. The heat was
fierce, but the charnel-blast would never come
sickening over that land again. And on the
evening of the day before Christmas there were
white frocks and gay ribbons fluttering on the
verandah. ,
“ They will hardly be here before dark, said
the Mother.
“ What odds ! ” replied Les. Elsie’s face will
do for a light to steer by.”
But the sun had not dipped when dust rose in
the track, and out of it came two horsemen
riding gallantly. Down they lighted at the gar-
den gate, and Jack Johnson kissed Mother just as
naturally as Tom. “Where’s Elsie? Where’s
Elsie?” asked half-a-dozen voices. And Les.
gave ease and mirth to all as he answered, “ Jack
will find Elsie, same as he used in old Bilton’s
garden.” . ,
Happy Christmas, that—happiest ever the Nill-
bong country saw, or, maybe, ever will see. So
at least thinks old John Barr, who speaks often of
the year the water came to Nillbong and Elsie
went away.
Francis Myers.


The Maorilander.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE Sydney conception of the Maorilander
is associated with a spieler and a para-
graph in the papers; M.L. boats are
watched closely by the plausible confidence men
of the city of the Beautiful Harbor. On the
other hand, the description of “Sydney
fellow” carries condemnation in M.L.;
so when the ordinary Sydneyite travels
there he usually does so under a
cloud of suspicion.
No one can wonder that the
. Maorilander should have such
a strong dislike to the man
from Sydney; he has been
victimised by him so often.
So he believes that Syd-
neyites are generally a
people not to be trusted,
that their morals are
bad and their honesty
worse, and that bad
blood has given them
dirty complexions, and
more or less put a ban
on them as a whole.
No use telling him that
Sydneyites are much
the same as other
people, and that they
live as cleanly and
virtuously and honestly
as any other people
living in a big town;
that Sydney is an open
port where the disgraced
of all parts may fly to
hide, and then prey on
the innocent as Sydney
spielers and harlots. He
won’t believe you. Sydney
will always be a beautiful
place to him, but its beauty will
be of the class of the girl in tights
at a low-down variety hall.
The Maorilander as a child is
better than anything in the human
kind we can produce on this side. His
intelligence lasts till he reaches eight or nine
years of age or even up to fourteen, when
there is a pause, and the bright lovely child sink*
into a mediocrity which endures till he commences
to age. Then the promise of the child begins to
return and old age grows lovable. To see those
Maoriland children you would think that the
country would furnish the world with genius ; and
■to meet the bright-eyed, interesting old people,
you can’t help wondering what great things
they have been doing all their lives ; but
when you see the people in their
maturity you realise that the age be-
tween is lost in commonplace.
One day I was climbing a suburban
hill to make a call, when I saw a sweet
little toddler. I was so much attracted
by her that I asked where Mrs.
Brocklebank lived. I hardly expected
a sensible reply; but she said, with one
fat little forefinger stuck meditatively in
her cheek : “ Mrs. B’ocklebank, hum. Well,
do you know where Mrs. Ellis ’ives ? ”
“No,” I said.
“No!” she exclaimed, surprised. “Don’t
know where Mrs. Ellis ’ives ? Well-well 1 Well
zen, you go wight away—wight away up the hill
till you come to a wee house; well, Mrs. B’ockle-
bank ’ives next door. My name’s Maisie Sinclair.
Bertie B’ocklebank p’ays wif me. Leastways, he
don’t p’ay wif me now, tause he’s away, but he
will p’ay wif me when he comes home. Good-
bye,” and off she toddled.
I watched her disappear down the hill; she did
not look behind, but went about her business like
a little woman. This is just what you might
expect from any Maoriland child of three or
four.
When I try to remember words of originality
•r brightness that have come from the lips of
the grown, I can remember nothing. Adult
Maorilanders are fine, simple, mediocre fellows
whom you are pleased to meet at all times. You
know that you may trust them, and you often
meet one whom you long to meet again, but, if
you do, you like him less.
Mind you, I am talking the broadest generali-
ties. He is at his best with a stranger. He has
a clean mouth —you hear very little obscenity in
your travels through the country; his accent is
purer than the Australian’s, and he is also more
grammatical. He dresses well, but without osten-
tation, and is abnormally fond of football and—
alas—horse-racing.
His love of football does him good, but his par-
tiality for horse-racing is a curse to the country.
In Australia the love of the horse accounts for the
■popularity of racing; but in Maoriland the average
man has no more admiration for the horse than for
a root or tussock. He has the pure gambling
instinct, and legalising the tote (this will be blas-
phemy to The Bulletin) has made it easy of
indulgence for him. All seem more or less
demoralised by it. Everybody is putting his
“ bit ” on the tote, and spending his earnings to
(ittend country meetings. Government encourages
it because of the increased traffic on the lines, and
you read that special trains will run to some
microscopic hamlet for the local race meeting.
It is pitiable to listen to the conversation in the
trains on such occasions; to watch the dull-eyed,
hard-handed man of toil listening, with mouth
agape, to the glib youngster who knows the
pedigree and the record of every horse on the
card, and who talks of wins made on this event
6r that, as if he had an income of £lO,OOO a year.
This racing oracle is a liar, but his listeners want
to win, and no lie is so brazenly open but that it
will send them to the tote to back a “dark-’un ”
NEW MAN—BOUND TO GOME.
or a “cert.” And God help the wife and family
and the trades-people!
But the wife is just as bad as the man. You
get into another compartment among the women
and you hear the same talk—only of a more silly
type. Women look upon racing as a curse only
when the men lose, and they attend the races and
put their own “bits” on as well. “I threw a
horseshoe over my shoulder this morning: I don’t
know whether it will give me any luck,” says one.
“ Oh, I dreamed of white horses last night,” says
another. And they tell each other how Mrs. So-
and-So won eight pounds on Blue Jacket, and
how another woman “can’t go wrong,” and such
like talk; and they have the same suppressed
greed shining in their eyes as the men. It is not
sport; it is all for any easy way to get money.
The Maorilander is all the time looking forward
to holidays. It is a land of holidays he lives in,
and though he gets more than any other country
in the world, I believe, he is never satisfied, but
ever eager to hunt that phantom pleasure which
is forever eluding us as we seek. No occasion is
too trivial for a holiday.
When speaking of England, Maorilanders call it
“Home,” and the absurdity of it never seems to
enter their heads. The newspapers always speak
of England as Home, with a big H. One
trait in the Maorilander’s character is his
“loyalty” to the Anglo-German Royal Family,
and another is his simple religious ideas. When
the Duke of Cornwall visited Auckland, the busi-
ness places in towns nearly a hundred miles away
shut up for the two days, and I would not envy
the man who said anything Republican at that
time. Religion is also grafted right into the
marrow of the people. Maoriland is the home and
stamping-ground of the evangelistic adventurer.
Any creed may flourish there, and the one which
has the biggest hell will do most business.
The traveller must notice what a lot of parsons
he meets in his journeys—ascetic parsons in
seedy clothes and patched boots; well-dressed
parsons with oily faces and suave voices ; parsons
with voices as harsh as the sound of a circular
saw at work ; and chubby, dapper little parsons,
for ever smiling, as if they had taken legs and
shed their little wings and come from their places
on the gravestones. They are coming and going
from conferences, or else they are travelling with
their wives and families.
You get the religious feeling of the country
from the man in the street, in the train, in the
steamboat. From the fellow you tell that it’s a
lovely day, or a wet day, or that it’s a nice bit of
scenery, you get an earnest inquiry “Brother,
are you saved?” All topics lead to “Brother,
are you saved ? ” The keen-eyed, close-fisted busi-
ness man, with a face you could cut wood, with will
break off from mining quotations and tell you of
the Wrath to Come. The sweet little girl who
has been talking books and poetry will suddenly
warn you against breaking the Sabbath ; and the
young fellow you feel sure must have his “bit”
on the tote, if the cut of his coat is any guide,
will tell you of the Saving Grace,
Sometimes a fierce-eyed haggard man will enter
the train and give tracts round, and then say,
“Ah, friends, do you believe? St. Paul says in
the something or other to Corinthians,” &c. He
can apparently lay his finger on every text in the
Bible. He pleads with us and damns us in a
breath, and he talks till the train reaches his
destination. He says next, “ Ah, some of you
read the papers and won’t listen, but there are no
papers in hell, only burning everlasting.”
One night, I stood listening to an old German
preacher, at a street corner. He said, “ Ah, mein
friendts, come along mit me up dose golden
stairs into der golden streets. Dere is room for
all mankind ; yes, undt der oimmins doo.”
The Maoriland Sunday is most depressing. I
once knew a man who suffered from heart disease.
He was a family man. When he was well, every-
body was noisy, and raced about the house and
laughed and romped. But when he was bad, the
rooms were darkened and the family went round
on tiptoe, and they whispered, and the house
seemed a house of mourning. Sunday in M.L. is
God’s sick day. It is not man’s day of rest.
Men rest only because it is sacrilegious to do any-
thing on God’s day. They don’t explain why
God wants one day out of man’s seven, when He
has all Eternity.
The Maorilander is usually sober. It is not a
thirsty country, and it is not a depressing climate,
and the Maorilander does not need stimulants.
He drinks his glass of beer with his dinner, likely
enough, but you see very little drunkenness, and
when he does drink it is just from sociability.
The Maorilander is going to make a great nation.
He has fewer faults than we Australians, as an
average. He is more intelligent and self-respeol-
ful; he has a kinder disposition and is less d.c-
trustful; and he has three times the animal
energy. Cure him of the horse-racing craze, get
him to love work more and holidays less, and, as
a people, he will be well-nigh faultless.
ROBERT BSOMMS.
The Red-Lipped Girl.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
O RED-LIPPED GIRL in the long fawn
coat,
We never tire of the vision bright,
As over the sunlit street you float,
Your petticoats foaming a pearly white !
Your eyes flash bright as the world thev
scan ;
There's a lurking smile on your full
red lips ;
And you snatch the breath from
the mouth of man
With the pliant swing of your
swelling hips.
And prodigal man does his
thoughts devote
By hours to you, girl in the
long fawn coat!
Your scarlet hat is a thing
of now,
Your long fawn coat was
designed by Worth,
But the charm and
beauty that e’er
endow
Your body lived since
the dawn of earth.
You are old as the stars
in the blue-black
sky ;
You are young and
bright as the rays
they shed ;
From your dainty shoe
with its silken tie
To the massing hair on
your shapely head.
Ages have bowed to that
potent curl
Though your years but num-
ber a score, O girl !
For never a law that was
drafted yet
Could live in the heat of your
dazzling smile ;
You flash your eyes as the codes beset,
You swing your hips as the creeds revile;
And while your hair, with each ebon strand,
Draws mankind, panting, towards your tryst,
Cobwebbed and lone the altars stand
Of Buddha and Baal and Thor and Christ.
For the men of the Earth, as they venture nigh,
Forget their gods when they catch your eye.
And the reckless power that to-day you wield
Was wielded so since the birth of Time ;
Heroes were yours on each bloodstained field,
Your soft white hand was in every crime ;
You looked on the clod, and your whispered
word
Endowed his heart with the poet’s fire !
The poet born by your glance was spurred,
At your glance was dumb with a broken lyre.
All good and ill that has e’er o’erspread
The world is yours, with your lips so red.
For you they fought on Trafalgar’s ships,
The charge was for you and the flame-framed
square;
And weak by the side of your full red lips
Was the scarlet banner of Robespierre.
You shared the joys of the cavalier ;
With the hearts of the Ironsides toyed
and played ;
For you the Puritan, calm, austere,
Plunged joyously to the Hell he made.
The same, O girl, is your thrilling sway
In a long fawn coat or a dress of grey !
You swaggered over the streets of Rome,
Audacious, pert, as you are to-day;
Your eyes flashed over the Hippodrome
Just as they do at the matinee.
Proud Carthage fell when you cast your looks;
Before your beauty the Greeks adored ;
Athens deserted its stones and books.
While Sparta fled from its spear and sword ;
And they strove and slew for your magic kiss
In the sculptured streets of Persepolis.
You’ll reign till the last of the worlds is dead,
And they troop in fear to their judgment grim ;
There’s nought will whiten your lips so red
Or the fervors bright of your glances ditn.
A sphinx you are with a sphinx’s claws ;
Eternal, calm, in your power sublime,
With the kiss that’s greater than faiths or laws,
And the smile that’s mocking at death and time.
The world with its sorrows and pains awhirl
Is glad that it’s got you, red-lipped girl !
VIC.
C.N.
Years ago, “Long Jim,” the carrier, was
making his return from Tugong. Amongst the
loading was an empty coffin, ordered for a man
who had died of total abstinence on the Orange
road. Outside the town the carrier met Mick
O’Grady holding himself up by a tree and com-
muning with space. Mick’s legs were out of gear
and he wanted a lift badly, so Jim helped him up
into his waggon and into the coffin, where he soon
fell asleep. Later on a shower fell, so Jim con-
siderately placed the lid over the coffin to keep
Mick dry, and presently forgot all about him.
Towards evening the carrier pulled up at the pub
to deliver the casket, and went in to have a drink
All at once hoarse yells of “ Murther ! ’and 1 Ho!>
father! ” broke out from amongst the loading,
and rushing out with its beer in its hand, the
crowd found Mick silting up in the coffin and
asking how he came to be buried alive on a dra;.
He was helped into the bar, where, proper restor-
atives being applied, he soon recovered from
lno shock. To this day Mick tells a gruesome
yarn about how be was buried alive, and it has
grown by degrees till now Mick claims that he
dug his way upward out of the cemetery, and too
away his tombstone under his arm.


“Listed.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE customer rubbed his chin as he walked
along the dusty, quiet street, and, seeing
on the window of a small shop— “ Hai-
rcutting, 6d. ; shaving, 3d. ; he went in. Seated
by a table at the further end of the room
was a small man with short and bristly hair
and eager, shifting eyes, glancing to and fro
between an open book and a sheet of paper on
which he was making notes with an appearance
of great industry and interest.
The customer threw himself into the one avail-
able chair and said, " Shave ! ” The gentleman
at the table took no notice, but referred from his
notes to his book, and from his book back to his
notes, with increasing speed and earnestness. The
customer looked round
and said, a trifle sarcasti-
cally, “ Might I trouble
you to shave me ? I
don’t want to stop here
all day.”
“Certainly, certainly,”
said the little man, ris-
ing hurriedly and hasten-
ing to a neighboring
shelf, from which he took
a razor. He began to
whet it with great vigor,
and as quickly he applied
the lather to the up-
turned chin of the re-
cumbent customer. As
he rubbed it in, he said,
rather mysteriously,
“Don’t tell those other
gentlemen about it, will
you?”
“About what?” said
the customer, quite
enough surprised to be
not quite annoyed.
“ Sh ! sh ! ” murmured
the barber, raptly, mys-
teriously, with a finger
to his mouth. “ The
gentlemen that are wait-
ing. They’d be annoyed
at you being taken out
of your turn, if they
knew.”
“But there’s nobody
else in the room,” said
the customer, testily.
“No—l know,” said
the barber ; “ but look
at the opinions ! Scores
of opinions I have got
on hand. Nearly all
consulting - work here,
you know. Only one case
like yours, and ” (glancing
round) “ he's listed.”
The customer became
alarmed, and might have
slid gently from the chair
and made his way
through the door, but
the barber suddenly
went to work with a will,
rubbing the now per-
spiring chin of hi# cus-
tomer, and shaving here
and there with light and
gentle touches, so that
the customer thought it
more prudent to keep
quiet and humor him.
“ You ought to be
listed,” said the barber
presently, pausing at his
work. “You have no
right to be heard ex
parte. Why, you haven’t
even entered an appear-
ance ! ”
“No; it’s not fair,”
said the customer, the
perspiration breaking out
on his brow. “I think
I ought to go and enter
an appearance no w.
’Tisn’t good enough to
keep those other cases
waiting.”
“ Right ! ” said the
barber, in a louder tone
than he had yet used.
Then, with his left hand
on the customer’s fore-
head, the right keeping a
short grip on the razor—
“ I'll strike you out ! ”
“ No, no; don’t strike
mo out,” said the cus-
toiner imploringly. “ Let us adjourn.”
“Can’t do that,” replied the barber sharply.
“No jurisdiction. But I’ll tell you what I can do
(taking the customer’s nose between the forefinger
and thumb of his left hand)/ 1 1 could list you
with that other case. I think you ought to be
listed.”
“Per-haps so,” said the customer doubtingly.
“ You go and get that other case, will you; and
I’ll consider it while you’re away.”
“Silence in the.court ! y said the barber, rising
suddenly in imagination to the judicial status,
Standing straddle-legs across the customer’s limbs,
and looking intently first into that gentleman’s
eyes and then at the razor. I’ve a good mind to
commit——” He paused, and the customer,
almost speechless with terror, and feeling that he
had forgotten the way to run, dimly wondered
when the next customer might be expected. In
that awful moment, the barber quietly sat on
the other’s knees, repeating, with increased
solemnity, “I’ve a good mind to commit you for
contempt of court! If you were not an old
man, I certainly would.”
“ Oh, yes,” said the customer, with real feeling;
“consider my age, your Honor. I’m so old. I’m
—l’m over a hundred; and my wife—she’s my
only support—l mean I’m her only support. And
my children —the youngest is only three weeks
old —I mean my great-grandchild, whose parents
are dead. They are all dependent on me, and, if
you let me off this time ”
“Silence in the Court! ” thundered the barber.
“I have made up my mind about you. I won’t
list you. I don’t think you’d keep. I’ll proceed
with the case.”
A ray of hope broke through the despair of the
customer’s soul as the barber got to business
again. The subject’s greatest fear now was that
he might suffer some accidental injury.
“May it please your Honor,” he said, “you
won’t do me an injury, will you?”
“You have nothing to fear,” said the barber,
plying his razor with the speed of a sheep-shearing
machine.
“Thank you, your Honor ! ” said the customer,
greatly relieved.
“You have nothing to fear,” repeated the
barber. “And, in any case, you have your action
for damages, if you suffer any.”
“Certainly,” said the customer; “but you
know I wouldn’t sue you.”
“And moreover,” continued the barber, ignor-
ing the interruption, “in the event of your
decease your executors may sue under Lord
Campbell’s Act. Do you like it short?” This
last, with reference to the customer’s beard,
seemed to that unfortunate significant of return-
ing reason. ■ - -
“ About medium,” he answered, and then, by an
inspiration, “I think you hawe'enough off now.”
“Part in the middle?” said the barber,
executing an up-and-down movement with the
razor very near the centre of the customer’s chin.
“No, thank you ; just leave it loose, like it is
now,” said the customer nonchalantly, believing
that the other had dropped the judicial delusion.
“ Oil ? ” said the barber.
“No, thank you.”
“Fat, then?” said the barber.
“Yes, please, a little fat,” said the customer
seeing his chance.
“ Kidney-ist ? ”
“Yes, please, a little kidney-fat.”
“Open your waistcoat, then,” said the barber.
“Quick !”
The last word did it; the customer threw him-
self outwards and baokwards, and just arrived on
the street as a dull weight struck the door on tho
inside, and a strident voice was heard to say,
“ Honorable Court stands ... ” or words to that
effect.
The customer made known to a small but in-
terested city that something had occurred m the
small shop where shaving was done for 3d.
“Don’t go in there,” he said to the population
and the policeman. “The barber’s gone off his
head. I’ve had a narrow escape of having my
throat cut!” ~ .
“Oh, that ain’t the barber,” said the coolest
man in the town. “ That’s a cranky relation of
In's what he looks after. Used to be in a lawyer s
office down in Melbourne, and fancies he s a
lawyer or a Judge, or somethin’ like that.
Always readin’ law books an’ talkin’ funny m the
shop when Mister Hare is shavin’ an’ haircuttin .
He’s ratty, right enough, but he helps in the shop
busy times, and, if he starts to talk then, Master
Hare shuts him up quick and lively. Mr. Hare
.can do anything with him. He’s quite ’armless.
They looked in and saw the harmless one pasting
a small square piece of paper on a box at the
further end of the room. That done, he retired
into an inner room, and the policeman and one or
two others followed, closing the inner door quietly
upon him. _ The box bore, neatly written and
underlined in red ink, the one word—“ Listed.”
The policeman raised the lid. There lay .the
real barber—neatly packed in four distinct pieces.
BOLEG.
WHEN STOCK GO BY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
/t H me ! how clearly they come back —-
/j Those golden days of long ago,
When down the droughty Bogan track
Tom came with stock from Ivanhoe !
The cattle passed our homestead gate ,
Beside our well I watched them pass !
While Dad was in a fearful state
About his water and his grass.
Tom rode a bonny dark-bay nag ;
He wore a battered cabbage-tree ;
And as I filled our water-bag
He came and asked a drink from me.
Tom said that drink was just like wine ;
He said my eyes were soft and brown ;
He said there were no eyes like mine
From Dandaloo to Sydney town.
I watched him with a trembling lip ,
Yet little thought I then that he
Who asked a. drink.from me
that trip
Would next trip ask my
Dad for me !
Tom's droving days long
since are done ;
The wet tear oft has
dimmed my eye ;
But days when I was
wooed and won y
Come back to me.. .
when stock go by!
THE BREAKER.
A “Discord” with a Lost Key.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
GOODNESS, Harry, I believe my nose is
bleeding! ”
“Bleeding? Hold your head back,
Jess. I’ve heard it’s a good thing to put some-
thing cold on your neck. Here, try this.’
He ran over to the closed door, and, after some
fumbling, brought back
the key.
“What am I to do
With it ? ”
“Put it on the back
of your neck. Thero,
that’s right.”
After a pauso, an awful
whisper—
“Oh Harry, it’s—it’s
slipped.”
“What’s slipped ?”
“ The key ! gone
down!”
“Ha ! ha! run out and
roscue it.”
Harry wont to open
tho door and found that
in removing tho key he
had locked it. The
drawing-room window
was 20ft. abovo tho
garden. Thero was no
1)01)0 of escape that
way.
“Oh, Harry ! what
sha/l I do ? ”
“T don’t know, Jess.
Can’t I—that is to say—
can’t you get it ? ”
In a shocked voice—
“ How can I with yon
here? Oh, I’m sure T
shall faint.”
“ I’ll tell you what.
I’ll go and look out of
the window, and keep
my back turned till ytfu
get it.”
“Oh, anything. Now,
go on. Now—promise
—now—not to look. Don't
look now ! ”
Footsteps approach—
pa’s footsteps—and Jes-
Bie’s pa is the Rev. Isaac
Slate.
“ I say, Jess, here’s
your dad. Do hurry ! ”
The Rev. Isaac tried
the door, and then
knocked.
“It’s all right, dad.
Just wait a minute.”
“What have you the
door locked for ?”
“Oh, we lost tho
key.”
“ We ? Who’s in thero
with you ? ”
“Only me,Mr. Slate.”
“ What !—a man in
there, too! How dare
you, sir? Open tho
door at once, sir—at
once!”
“I can’t, Mr. Slate.
Jess’s got the key—lost.
She swallowed it. No,
I don’t mean that—it’s
slipped. Oh, do hurry.
Jess! ”
“Open the door, at
once, sir, or I’ll kill
you. You blackguardly
ruffian ! ”
“I can’t, sir. You
see, the key slipped
down the neck of her
back—no, the back of
her slipped - Oh,
Jess ! ”
Sobs from Jessie.
By this time the
whole household was
outside the door, and
the Rev. Isaac was
fuming.
“Why don’t you come to the door, you
ruffian ? Come and open the door at once,
sir.”
“If I can’t how can I, Mr. Slate? You see—
you see —your daughter is disrobing !
.. m mi !!***!!??!!” The
minister was just a man after all, and had let go
at last. He rushed for a ladder and tore round to
the front.
As his face appeared over the window-sill it
met that of Harry, who gaped like a man in
extremis.
“You can't come in here, sir!” he gasped.
“ Your daughter’s un—er— dressing—sir.”
“Can’t come in—can’t I?” He shot through
the window like a meteor and was on to Harry
like a fox-terrier.
Meanwhile Jessie had recovered the key.
Harry and Jessie are married now.
CHAS. P. SMITH.


Fred's Teeth.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT wuz this way,” said the old man, “I
wuz bringin’ in 5000 monkeys from the
Bridge, in Queensland, to about Bourke,
an wuz somewheres near Angledool. X wuzn’t
what you might call short’anded, but I could
a done with another man, if you’ll understan’
me. Well, one day at dinner-camp, up oome
a young feller, neatly dressed, with one o’ them
blamed town stror ’ats on. It wuz 105 in the
shade, an’ ’e looked as though ’e’d just lost
’is billet in a Angledool store. ’T wuz the stror
’at made me cotton to ’im fust —I pitied ’im.
’ls face wuz as red as a galah an’ blistered
an’ raw; but ’e ’ad the most beautifullest set o’
teeth I ever sor in the bush—•-two stumps an’ a
fang’s the usual ’lowance.
“ I arst ’im to ’av a bit o’ tuoker, an’, while ’e
wuz wirin’ in, I ’appened to say’s ’e’d make short
work ov’ ’is tucker with teeth like ’is. He tells me
they wuz false, an’ took ’em out an’ showed ’em to
me. I med up me mind then I’d git some. ’E
called me ‘sir,’ too, an’ lifted ’is stror ’at so nice
like, an’ I ’adn’t bin useter blokes shiftin’ ther
cadies an’ callin’ me ‘ sir.’ Anyway, the long an’
short of it wer that, when ’e arst me fur work, I
put ’im on, if you’ll understan’ me.
“’E wuz a very ’umble sorter chap, an’ told us
all about ’isself strate orf—’ow ’e’d bin in a store
in the Bridge, an’ ’ad bin retrenched, as ’e called
it, ’n’ ’ow ’e wuz engaged to a girl, ’n’ ’ow ’e loved
’er, an’ a lot more sickernin’ rot, ’n’ 'e wuz always
a rubbin’ ’is ’ands like’s ’e wuz washin’ of ’em, or
smoothin’ ’is fingers down like’s if ’e wuz
puttin’ on gloves, but ’e got round us, an’
we liked ’im. ’E’d tackle anythin’ ’e wuz
told to. ’E generally made a mess of it,
but ’e shaped willin’, if you’ll understan’ me,
an’ we forgiv’ ’im. The only fault I found with
’im wuz, ’e took such a blamed long time to git
orf camp in the mornin’. I 'ad’nt guv ’im a flock
’e wuz what you might call sopernoomerary,
if you understan’ me. ’E wuz with the fust flock,
an’ev’ry mornin’ ’e’d be dodgin’round the camp
long after the larst sheep ’ad bin counted orf. I
useter think ’e wuz doin’ odd jobs fur the cook—’e
wuz one of them coves what’s always doin’ odd
jobs fur someone, an’ gittin’ kicks fur thanks, if
you’ll understan’ me. But the slushy said ’ e
didn’t ’inder Fred (which were the ’umble bloke’s
name), but ’e ruther thort it wuz the false teeth
’e’d brung with him what kep’ ’im.
“I arst Fred. ’E said (’e spoke beautiful, did
Fred): ‘Hi ham trewly grieved you should ’av to
check me for such a fault, sir, but to tell yew the
trewth, which my dear mother taught me never
to neglek, hit’s my teeth’s to blame, not me.’
“ ‘ Your teeth ? ’ I said.
“‘Yes, sir, my hunfort’nit teeth. When hi
turns hin of a night hi puts ’em somewheres ’andy
hon a stump hor hat the butt of a tree, so’s hi’ll
find ’em heasy hin the mornin’, hand not be a
delayin’ of yew, sir. Then when hi goes to git
them they’re halways gone, hand hi’ve a nell—
beg parding, sir—hi’ve a hawful time findin’ ’em,
there’s so many trees hand stumps hand logs alike
hin the bush, sir.’
y sez : Some of the lads plants ’em on yer.’
“ ‘.Hi ’opes not,’ sez Fred. ‘That would be a
nartless thing to do. They’re neoosiary to my
very hexistence.’
IN PARADISE: THE DAY AFTER THE “ WAKE."
Grogan : Hurroo! If the ould woman cu’d only see me now! ”
“ I hadvised ’im to plant ’em in a safe place, an’
thort no more of it.
“ Things went better fur a day or two after—
Fred useter git away to time, an’ things wuz
liummin’. One night the sheep wuz a bit restless
like, an' I wuz a-moochin’ roun’ in case anything
should ’appen, if you’ll understan’ me. I’d a
noticed Fred sleepin’ nex’ the second in charge,
and I’d thort how blamed ugly ’e looked with ’is
great empty ’ole of a mouth open ; an’ just then
the sheep rushed. I sings out to the lads, an’
they wuz buzzin’ roun’ in no time. I see the
second-in oharge jump an’ pull ’is boots on, an’
make a rush arter the sheep when 'e suddinly
SUNDAY AT COOTRAMUNDI.
Bush Borneo going for “ the girl." (He knows her weight.)
yelled ‘Ho, Lord, I’m a dead man!” Then he
sot down hard, whipped ’orf ’is boot, an’ started
to try an’ bite ’is foot—at least it looked like that.
I ’adn’t time to stop to see.
“We ’ad a bit of a job with the sheep, if you’ll
understan’ me, but they didn’t go fur; pulled up
on a netting fence. When we brung ’em back,
Second wuz lyin’ down, groanin’ ’orrible, an’ a
bottle of brandy alongsider ’im, an’ ’i3 foot band-
aged up, an’ the cook wuz alongsider the bottle er
brandy a-tryin’ to write somethin’. Fred, ’e runs
up to me. I wuz in a scot, an’ I sez ‘ Why the’
’ell didn’t you come after the sheep? Think I
pays yer to stay monkeyin’ round’ the camp ? ’
“‘Ho, sir,’ ’e sez, ‘don’t be hannoyed. Mr.
Second’s bin bit with a death-adder on the big toe.
We saw’d it orf, hand ’e’s dying and drinkin’
brandy, hand the cook’s makin’ ’is larst will hand
testryment, hand’av’ you seen my teeth, sir?’
“ ‘Dammit, man,’ I sez, ‘did yer blanky teeth
rush with the sheep? Ow’d la’ seen ’em?’ An’ I
walked over to Second. ’E seemed bad. ’E told
me ’e wuz a dead man an’ took another drink of
brandy. The cook wuz cryin’ drunk, an’ all the
time Fred kep’ runnin’ roun’ arstin’ everybody
‘ Avyouseenmyteeth ? ’ Things wuz a bit mixed.
“We wuz on good feed, an’ I settled to spell
that day an’ give Second time to die or get well,
an’ Fred a chanst to find ’is teeth—’e wuz a
awful sight without ’em. ‘Were did yer put
em ? ’ I arst ’im.
“ ‘ Hever since yew Bpoke to
me, Sir, hi’ve halways put ’em
in my boot at night for saferty.’
“Then I remembered Fred
an’ Second slep’ alongsider each
other, if you’ll .uhderstan’me,
an’ I got Second’s boots an’
xamined ’em, and there,
jammed in the toe of one of
his number elevens, wer’ Fred’s
teeth an’ blood on ’em. Then
I knew Second adn’t bin bit by
no death adder, an’ I goes over
an’ tells ’im. He didn’t seem
much relieved; however he
tore up ’is larst will and tes-
tryment.
“After that things went on
better, though Second never
forguv’ Fred. He kep’ on
losing his teeth at times, an’
got to be known by the lads as
‘ Avyouseenmyteeth,’ but ’e
never did no wrong until one
day I sent ’im on to notice a
run we wuz goin’ through, an’
’is ’orse stumbled an’ shook ’is
teeth out of ’is ’ead, an’ slung
’im, an’ then bolted; an’ Fred
spent all day lookin’ fur ’em, an’
never guv’ no notice, an’ walked
back without ’is ’orse, which I
got back without saddle or
bridle, an’ I wuz hauled back
a matter of 60 miles to court
an’ fined a fiver an’ costs. I
tole Fred I’d stop it out of ’is
wages, but ’e looked so pitiful,
and said so quiet, ‘ Hall right,
sir ; Hi can’t complain, sir.
The little girl hand Hi’ll ’ave to wait a little
longer, that’s hall, sir,’ that I forguv’ ’im.
“’Nother time the cook wuz sick, an’l put
Fred on to drive the dray, an’ ’e never turned up
to dinner camp, nor at night, an’ we ’ad to turn
in with no tucker an’ no blankets. Fred turned
up about three in the rnornin’ an’ said ’e wuz
drivin’ along with ’is teeth on a box fer safety, an’
they must ’a’ jolted orf, an’ ’e ’ad to go back close
up 10 mile, walkin’ an’ leadin’ th’ horse, ’fore ’e
found ’em, an’ th’ ’orse ’adn’t ’ad no feed nor
nothink. We wuz all mad, I promise yer, but
Fred was that ’umble about it, if you’ll understan’
me, that we forguv ’im. ’E ’ad what I once heard
the parson call ‘a contrike an’impenitent’art.’
“Fred stuck to work pretty close after that,
an’ wasn’t so much, of a noosance, until somethink
appeared to put the set on the ’ole thing. We wuz
close up th’ end of our trip, ther wuz whips of
grass and water, the monkeys wuz fat an’ con-
tented, in fack we wuz ’avin a orl rite time, when
business took me into the township 10 miles ahead,
if you’ll understan’ me. There wuz a good many
fellers in town I knew—drovers an’ such like —an’
we gqt gassin’ an’ pitchin’ an’ drinkin’ until it
wuz time fur me to git back to the camp. Off I
goes. It wuz a bright moonlight night, an’ the
season wuz good, as I tole yer—an ole Prince
stepped out smart—neighin’ now an’ then to let ’is
mates know ’e wuz cornin’. When I reached
camp they wuz all turned in except the watch, an’
he wuz dozin’, if you’ll understan’ me. Now
whether it wuz the grog I’d drunk or what, I
dunno, but I wuz powerful dry, an’ as soon’s ever
I’d a let ole Prince go, I looked aroun’ fur a quart
pot to git a drink o’ water—a pint would er bin
no good to me. I seed a quart standin’ along-
sider Fred, an’ what wuz more it wuz full o’ water.
I thinks to myself, ’ere’s a chuck-in, an’ put it to
my lips, an’ tilted my ’ead back, an’ let the water
trickle down my throat, an’ never cried quit until
somethink rattled out of the quart into my mouth
an’ nearly down my throat an’ choked me. I
didn’t know what th’ell it wuz until I spit it out,
an’ then I see it wuz Fred’s teeth.
“ Then I takes them blamed teeth down to the
big waterhole an’ flung ’em in’s far’s ever I could.
Then I went an’ made up Fred’s account, an’ sat
till daylight waitin’ fur ’im. He comes up to me
with ’is everlastin’ ‘ avyouseenmyteeth, ’ and I ups
an’ tells ’im, ‘Yes, I av see’d your blarsted teeth,’
an’ I takes ’im by the ear to the bank of the water-
hole an’ tells ’im they’re in the deepest part of it.
I give ’im ’is cheque an’ advised ’im to ’obble or
side-line ’is teeth nex’ time ’e went drovin’, that
wuz if ’e got ’em out of the waterhole. He sed
’e’d go back to ’is little girl.
“Larst I seen of Fred ’e wuz divin’fur them
teeth in the waterhole.”
NE'EB-DO-WEEL.
Our Sydney Trip.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN we rode up Hogan was smoking
on the verandah. He had the repu-
tation of being the “ deadest trick ”
of a publican out West, but, of course, we couldn’t
be taken down.
Anyhow, we weren’t going to give him a chance.
Just one nip, and then off again to the township
to take train to Sydney. We couldn’t see the
fun of spending our cheques at a place like
Hogan’s.
Hogan waddled to the edge of the verandah as
we pulled up, his puffy face wreathed in smiles.
“G’day t’ yez, G’day!” he gasped. (Hogan
was always short-winded.) “Where a’ ye been
all these mont’s, ye spalpeens ? The divil a wan
o* yez hov I seen fer an age. Let yer hor-r-ses go
where they are. The bye’ll put ’em away fer yez,
and thin ye’ll all come straight in an hov’ a wet
wud me. ’Tis chokin’ yez must be.”
Long Andy told him we weren’t going to stay,
but he didn’t seem to mind a bit. He said he
liked to see young fellers saving up their money
and not t’rowin’ it away. Anyhow, we must
come in and have a nip. Of course we had one.
Then Andy said to “fill ’em up again,” and
we’d get, but Hogan was lost in admiration of
Bill’s pony. Bill was our flash man. “I go bail
ye think he can thravel a bit, Billy, me son,” he
remarked, surveying Bill’s prad in a critical
manner. “Am Oi roight ? ”
“Yairs,” admitted Bill. “He can just about
run rings round anything you’ve got, old man.”
“Houldon a minute,” cried Hogan, “Doan’t
be too shure, now. I’ve got a bit of a filly out
there that I wouldn’t mind givin ye a flutther
with fer about a quarther iv a moile.”
“ Fer how much ?” queried Bill, eagerly. Too
eagerly, we thought.
“’E’ll give the show away if he ain’t careful,”
Andy muttered in an undertone.
“Oh! Oi’ll run yez just fer the fun of it”
spluttered Hogan. “Ye moight have aOar-robine,
for all Oi know; but Oi’ll run yez for a pound
a-soide, an’ the winner to shout.”
Bill’s jaw dropped visibly. He knew he had a
good pony and was beginning to reckon on a tidy
win, but apparently Hogan didn’t fancy the filly
enough for that.
Bill exchanged glances with Andy. (Nobody
looked my way because, as Bill said, “ I knew
nothink.”) Andy nodded. A pound was better
than nothing, and it looked a certainty.
Bill turned to Hogan. “Right y’are!” he
drawled, “but who’s going to ride your crock?”
“Aw ! Mickey’ll roide her. He’s loighter ’an
you, but yer roidin’ll make up all the difference
between yez.”
That bit of blarney settled it. Anyhow, Bill
reckoned he could give away twice the weight
and then win. Mrs. Hogan held the stakes, and
undutifully barracked for Bill.
“Aw ! The lovely crachur ? ” she cried, survey-
ing Bill’s cuddy. “Shure, Mr. Evans” (that was
Bill) “ Oi’ll not lie aisy in me grave iv ye doan’t
take me fer a roide on ’im, before ye lave this
blessed place. ”
Bill muttered something to the effect that he
would if he could. Andy was the starter and I
was to be judge, in the event of a close finish.
They jumped away to a good start, but Hogan’s
filly hadn’t a hope. Bill just gave the pony his
head, and romped in the easiest of winners. Mrs.
Hogan was in raptures, and Hogan took his de-
feat like the sportsman he was, merely chaffing
the crestfallen Micky about getting licked when
he was riding a filly that (Hogan said) “could win
the Millburrne Cup.”
“Well, never moind,” he cried. “Let’s hov’ the
drinks. O’im not goin’ to let ye aff thim, Bill,
ye divil ? ”
We all laughed, and Bill said he’d shout all day
on the same terms, so we adjourned to the bar.
Then Hogan said we must have another witli
him, just to show there was no ill-feeling, and,
after Andy and I had eaoh stood a round, I’m
blessed if Mrs. Hogan didn’t say she’d shout if
we’d promise to stop till the morrow bo’s Bill
could take her for a ride on “that dar-r-lin
hor-r-se.”
After that I don’t remember.
We left three days later. Hogan said we owed
him “a power of money,” but he didn’t want to
be har-rd on us, so he’d take two of the pack-horses
and Bill’s pony, and cry quits.
“Oi’m sorry ye changed yer moinds about that
trip to Sydney, bhoys,” he said; “ but mebbe
’tis joost as well, fer Oi’m tould that down there,
they think nothin’ iv takin’ a man down; and,
he added impressively : “ where ’ud ye be thin ? ’
SFINIFEX.
Sent to The Bulletin by a Vancouver
(B. C.) reader:
A Winnipeg store-dealer recently received this order
from a French Canadian : “ You will please put some shoe
on my little families like this, and send by Sam Jamieson,
the carrier. One man, Jean St. Jean (me), 42 years ; one
woman, Sophie St. Jean (she), 41 years ; Hermedes ana
Lenore, 19 years; Honore, 18 years ; Celina, 17 years ,
Narcisse, Octavia, and Phyllis, 16 years; Olive, 14 years ,
Philippa, 13 years; Alexandre, 12 years ; Rosina, u
years ; Bruno, 10 years ; Pierre, 9 years ; Eugene, we lost
him ; Edouard and Elisa, 7 years; Adrien, 6 years,
Camille, 5 years ; Zoel, 4 years ; Joseph, 3 jears ; Moise,
2 years ; Muriel, 1 year ; Hilaire, he go barefoot. How
much ? ”
Adds our correspondent:
You may have some difficulty in making your reac *® l !*
believe the story, so I would advise you not to try.. A l *
the same, however, there are many cases amongst tne
French Canadians of families just as large, and I, P er '
sonally, know of two near my native town on the Ottawa
River that can beat the one here mentioned.


Kid Carter’s Absolution.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT WAS a panting hot day. There was a garish,
metallic lustre in the sunlight; the gums in
Cadden’s paddock drooped with a pathetic,
human listlessness; the sheep on the flat lay in each
other’s shade, sweltering in their wool; the thin,
wavering line of township across the flat from the
bush front simmered in a
mirage, and looked
strange and desolate
even to the accustomed
eyes of Kid Carter,
dawdling homewards
with a bun He of wood.
The small boy had
been an unconscionably
long time gathering his
load of sticks, and had
a lively sense of trouble
to come. Kid was a
blaek-browed Austra-
lian ; his hide had ac-
cumulated “local color”
for twelve fiery sum-
mers. His eyes were
like beads of ink in
which glittered the sul-
len resentment of the
small pagan who realises
that the world is against
him His face was thin,
oval and impish. Kid
looked more like the
promising heir of a Cor-
sican bravo than the
honestly begotten son of
an Anglo-Saxon mar-
riage. Sent to gather
wood, “an’ look slippy
too,” he had wandered
far and wide,, dug out
a rabbit, collected much
“ manna,” and now, free
of tho glamor of the bush,
with a wretchedly in-
adequate load of wood
upon his back, his sense
of duty and his respon-
sibilities returned to
him, and weighed him
down. He realised that
he was “in for it,” and
the joy of life was gone.
He loitered, procrasti-
nating shamelessly.
The sun-shafts actually
tinkled upon the bastard
quartz. Laziness leaked into one through every
per,. The insensate locusts stirred the air into
waves of sound—thick, cloying, suggestive ot all
the drowsy syrups of the East.” Kid relapsed
into conscienceless vagabondage. A surface pool,
the result of recent thunderstorms, offered conso-
lation. The boy dropped his load, and dabbled
r , . ~ , r r „ r
his feet m the warm water Twenty minutes
later, crawling out of his puddle in a state ot
nudity, he discovered HoppyM'lvor, the shepherd,
sleeping below in a niche of the quarry above the
water-level. Hoppy lay on his back, drunk, and
purring like a gorged tiger. Kid spent a quarter
v. , . ® .•” i a i nr • a
of an hour trying to drop corpulent bullfrogs into
the mouth of the slumbering shepherd.
Whilst dressing
—a simple process
of crawling into an
old shirt, and drag-
ging on a pair of
large trousers —it
occurred to Kid as
a fact of some
scientific interest,
that if a drain were
dug from the edge
of the quarry to
the small pool, the
surface water in
the latter would
run down into the
cool corner where
reposed shepherd
M'lvor. The idea
gave the boy no
particular delight,
but he spent 15
minutes putting it
into execution.
When the water
♦tarted to trickle
down the side of
the quarry Kid
took up his burden
again and slouched
homewards.
* *
Under the ex-
posed verandah at
the back of the
house Mrs. Carter
was busy in a cloud
of steam, washing
the weekly heart-
breaking accumu-
lation. Baby Car-
ter, skewered in a
high chair just
within the door-
way, with a large,
red, angry bump,
eloquent of a re-
cent disaster, on
his forehead,
wailed desolately,
as he had been
doing for an hour
or more. Mary
Carter, a year
gfMSff
aged 5, sat out in the sun, scooping up the mud
of the yard drain in a sardine tin. All were
shockingly bedraggled, and grimy with the sub-
stantial grime that comes of treacle and tears
and honest soil—so grimy that Mrs. Carter,
naturally a tidy body, kept her eyes resolutely
f rom them, laboring wearily and in torment at
the hated tub.
Kid, having dumped his load, prowled to a
verandah-post and hung there, the embodiment of
THE ETERNAL FEMININE.
Australian Black Woman (looking at picture of Maori brown woman): “ Ugly brute! ”
sullen guilt, awaiting developments. His mothers
tbe door . The boy edged to tbe f ur thest post and
leaned again, watching warily under his mat of
dusty black hair.
All his mother’s bitterness and weariness and
self-pity burst in a storm of complaining. “Oh,
vou imp of Satan you, wait till your father comes
iiomo , H H ere am j slavin’ an’ toilin’, wearin’ my
knuckles to the bone, while you dawdle your time
away, not carin’ if I’m dead or alive. Come
here ! ”
“ Won’t! ” said Kid, stupidly
“ Not a bite of tea will you get this day. I 1
teach you to go an leave me with all this washin
an , tbem t bree children on hands, an’ water to
carry. Your father shall hear of this, my lad.
THE CAKE JOKE OF COMMERCE.
WASHINGTON, SEN.: “ Tell me, George, was -it you who cut your
mother's cake? ”
GEORGE WASHINGTON: “ Father, 1 cannot tell a lie. I did it With my
little hatchet .”
WASHINGTON, SEN.: “Mu son, your bare unsupported confession would
be unconvincing, but lam constrained to believe that you may be
perhaps telling the truth for once when I regard the damaged state
of the implement you used. You will want a new one.”
I’ll make him thrash you within an inch of your
life. Oh, but I’ll tan you in your bed this night! ”
“Ain’t I bin fer a loader wood?” asked the
boy, bitterly, and yet with a full consciousness of
the paltry inadequacy of the plea.
“ Wood—you call that a load of wood to spend
four hours over, you shiftless, crawlin’, miserable
little monkey ! ”
“ Orl right; you kin go fer yer wood yerself nex’
time.”
“Come in here at once an’ ’tend to this baby.
She might scream herself into a fit for you.”
“Likely to, ain’t I, when you ’re goin’to lick me.”
Kid had edged to the side-gate. His mother,
shaking the lash, felt her impotence, and in her
chagrin and the dreariness of her heart stuttered
on the verge of tears.
“I wish I was dead—dead an’ in my grave.
Are you goin’to take up that baby, or are you not? ”
“You throw ’way that whip an’ I will.”
Mrs. Carter continued for ten minutes pouring
out threats and orders, but Kid stuck to his terms,
and eventually his mother hung the lash on its
nail again, as a sign that hostilities were suspended,
and returned to her work. Then the boy edged
into the kitchen, and, having made strategical
provision for a sudden retreat through the front-
door, took baby Carter from his chair, and robbed
Miss Mary of the consolations of the blue-bag,
adding another howling to the horrors of the
afternoon.
But Kid, hungry and in an evil humor, gave no
consolation to the baby ; it strained for its higher
notes, and the afflicted little mother out under the
verandah heard things which filled her with such
bitterness that it seemed impossible to believe that
only recently she had been a happy, hearty
woman, or that in a few hours she would be a
careless, laughing creature again.
“Or-r, shut up, carn’t yer ! ” came Kid’s voice,
reeking with wormwood.
The baby kicked convulsively, and put up a
yell hinting at torture.
“Think a cove’s got nothin’ ter do but trot a
blessed kid round orl day ? ”
Then Mrs. Carter’s experienced ear told her
that baby was kicking on the floor,and caught the
click of the cupboard door, and instantly she was
on guard, with a tablecloth wrung into a short,
hard rope in her hand.
“What are you doin’ at that cupboard ?” she
■aid, truculently.
“ Gettin’ a piece, if yer want ter know.”
“ Not a blessed bite will you have in this house
till I choose to give it you.”
She slammed the cupboard door with a grand
air of determination, and Kid backed away, the
victim of a shameful tragedy.
“’S’pose yer want it all fer yerself,” he said,'
slowly.
This was the last straw; Mrs. Carter broke
under it. Remembrance of times when she had
gone hungry that her children might eat rushed
in upon her; the fearful ingratitude of her son
seemed to blacken all humanity. A wave of pro-
found sentimentality mingled with another of
righteous anger, and Mrs. Carter threw the table-
cloth. Kid dodged, and went down the passage
for the front door. The missile struck the porce-
lain teapot, which fell from the shelf, and was
shattered on the hearthstone —the porcelain tea-
pot that had been Mrs. Carter’s mother’s mother’s,
and was regarded as a sort of symbol of respect-
ability and an absolute guarantee of the antiquity
of the family. Mrs. Carter sat on the floor amoDg
the ruins and wept.
When his mother came forth, armed and breath-
ing vengeance, Kid was lurking on the safe side
of the garden fence. Truth to tell, tho boy was
miserable, and racked through with forebodings
and regrets, but he could not show it in the face
of Mrs. Carter's demonstration, and he fled, ter-
rible prognostications of the thrashings he should
have when his father came home pursuing him
across the wide, glittering, ironstone road.
* * * •
The boy spent a wretched afternoon. He
wandered about where the sunlight moved like
thin flame on the broad expanse of dry white
pipeclay from the Native Youth’s puddlers. The
day was intolerably still and silent; the world was
strangely desolate. Kid tried tumbling on the
pipeclay as a diversion, but there was no joy in it.
The ordinary kindness and goodness of his mother
afflicted him. He suffered the torments of a great
remorse. Kid had a fierce affection for his mother,
and yet somehow a devilish external influence
was always dragging him into these rows. What
was a boy to do against the malign influences of a
badly-ordered universe ?
A great, sweeping, melodramatic sunset glowed
blood-red through the smoke of distant bush-fires;
the bush beyond the quarries was transformed
into a fantastic silhouette of black on red. Kid
saw a crowd of naked boys running about the
deep upper quarry, and noticed one at the lower
hole signalling to the others. All the boys flocked
to the brink of the lower quarry. Some ran back
to their clothes. They seemed greatly excited.
“Hi, hi, Nigger, here—quick ! ” cried Steve
Tootell, beckoning
wildly to Kid as lie ap-
proached.
“ Bet it’s another snake
in the quarry,” said Kid
to himself, and advanced
carelessly, as became a
confirmed cynic.
Tho boys made way
for him on the great
overhanging rook.
“Look 1 ” said one.
Kid saw a bat floating
on tl e surface, near it a
bottle. He looked more
closely, and down in tho
clear shallow water dis-
covered a strange, vnguo
form. Like a great black
spider it looked, groping
foolishly on tho bottom,
A moment later he knew
it to be a man, and a
stii| id horror fell upon
him.
“ Wha’ ’s he doin’
there?” lie whispered,
“ Why, carn't yer sen
he’s drownded?” said
Steve, unctuously, with
tho superiority of know-
ledge. “ It’s Jlopp.v
M'lvor.”
“ Floppy M'lvor ! *
Kid sani< upon his knees,
his fingers clutching tho
edge of tho rock, his eyes
staring and full,of terror.
Ho saw the sprawling
figure distinctly now ; it
seemed to bo playing
some childish game—it
was repulsively ridicu-
lous.
“Wha’s ho doin’
there ? ” wailed Kid.
“ Tho fool ! tho fool !-
tho blessed fool! ”
Kid saw that the spot
where tho shepherd lay
sleeping a few hours
earlier was now sub-
merged, that the tiny
gutter he had made was
a worn channel, that the
pool he had played in,
and, not only that, but
the wider pool beyond,
was drained. He had
murdered Hoppy
M'lvor, and he was
feeling, under a heaviness ns of material things
pressing upon him, a keen resentment against
that shadowy horror, to which the faint ripples on
the surface lent a suggestion of movement abso-
lutely hideous.
“ The fool, the fool 1 wha’s he doin’ there ? ”
The boy’s voice broke into a piteous wail.
Some of the lads had gone to give the alarm,
and presently men came and drew M'lvor out of
the water and carried the body away. Kid fol-
lowed then) for some distance, not knowing why,
still only conscious of what he had done as of
something vague and far-off; still oppressed with a
dreadful heaviness that threatened to choke him.
The word “Home” spoken by someone in the
crowd diverted him, and he turned towards his
home, running and stumbling, making whimpering
noises like an animal.
The horses were in the stable-yard, the long
hooped waggon stood by the fence. His father
had returned. The knowledge gave Kid relief.
There was a refuge in his father’s strength. When
"he reached the kitchen door he saw his mother
sitting at the table crying ; he heard her words.
“It's something if I’m to be saddled with tho
bringin’ up of a great boy like that. He wants a
stern father over him.”
Mrs. Carter was still fretful, still suffering
from the heat and burden of the day. Carter
stood at the window, looking sullen, the dust of
travel still upon him. He saw Kid first, and
seized him. Carter hated hammering the young-
sters, especially when just home from a long trip,
but this time he was wrought beyond endurance.
“You young scamp,” lie said, “what do you
mean by it?”
He hammered Kid with a length of reins, and
the hammering promised to be an event—one of
those larrupings that become traditional in fami-
lies. Kid yielded supinely; the only noise ho
made was a thin wailing, utterly unlike his usual
bovine bellowings under the lash. This led Carter
to think he was not rising to the occasion, and he
quickened his stroke. All the smaller Carters sot
up a lusty howling; Mrs. Carter looked on, pale-
faced and trembling, already remorseful and torn
with regrets. Kid suffered agony, but out of his
sufferings came a wonderful satisfaction. He
seemed to grow strong and healthy and
clean under the blows. Never in his life
before had he known anything at all like this—the
relief was the relief of cold water toaperishing man.
Mrs. Carter interfered before Carter was half
through. She threw herself between father and
son, tearful and abusive. “You coward! you
coward !” she cried. “You shan’t beat him like
that. You’re not fit to have children. You
brute! you big, unfeelin’ brute ! ”
Carter was familiar with this kind of thing, but
his blood was up. Taking his wife by the
shoulders he put her from the room, and locked
the door, and resumed the flagellation, and Kid
received the severest thrashing he had ever
had in his life, and came out of it cleansed and
in his right mind.
He was sent to bed without tea, and went
gladly and slept well. His heaviness was gone.
He saw clearly in the morning, realising that he
had paid the penalty. That was how his boyish
conscience received it. Whatever had happened
he had paid for, paid to the last stripe. He was
beautifully black and blue, and every bone and
muscle ached deliciously. He had paid ; it was
all right, he had paid. He was not called upon
to say a word ; for his misdeeds of yesterday he
had condoned in sorrow and suffering.
Kid said nothing. The coroner s jury was con-
vinced that M'lvor had come by his death from
accidental causes whilst uncommonly drunk.
There was plenty of evidence to * prove the
drunkenness. The boy who had been given ab-
solution with a belt, never spoke a whisper of the
truth, and never a pang of remorse assailed his
Pagan soul. Was he not purified by fire ?
EDWABD DYSON.


Jack’s Girl—and Bill’s.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A LOST INCOME.
PHYLLIS : We got sixpence from, the bottle-man—how much did you gct?”
NANOY: “Oh, we didn’t get anything; our father’s away.”
BILL and Jack were returning from the
shearing. They had reached a little
pub. on the road from out-back, and,
having washed the dust from their throats
with some luke-warm ale, were enjoying a
smoke in the dirty little bar parlor. The drought
was over all and their cheques were much smaller
than usual.
The place was almost deserted ; there was not
a single traveller but themselves, and the publican
was oarting water.
It was evening, and the only sound to be heard
was the hum of flies, which neither dust nor heat
nor drought seemed to lessen.
The two men smoked awhile in silence.
“I didn’t think I’d a felt it so much,” said Bill.
“Ah,” answered Jack, absently. He was
thinking of the girl he was travelling southward
to rejoin.
Bill crossed his legs, rested his elbow on his
knee, and, supporting his pipe in one hand, blew
clouds of smoke to the ceiling.
“She’s an ’andsome piece, anyhow,” continued
he, knocking the ashes out of his pipe.
“She; who? ” inquired his mate.
“Who?” asked Bill, disgustedly. “Ain’t you
got no eyes in your ’ead ? Who do you think it
should be?”
“ Can’t say till you tell me.”
“What do you think I bought this’at for at
Dry Creek store ?” Bill took off the hat in ques-
tion and looked at it ruefully. “Four and six it
cost me, too. ”
“ Oh 1 it was the girl in the store ? ”
“You’ve ’it it. It took you a long time. And
pretty girls are none so plentiful about here,
either. The old ’at was good enough for a year or
two yet. Nine beers chucked away, that’s what
it was,”
“It’ll come in ’andy for the next petticoat that
takes your fancy.”
Bill lit his pipe again in silence. “ I ain’t that
sort, and you know it. When did you see me
danglin after a petticoat before ? But this’n was
no common girl. She’d ’a made a fine milker.”
“Didn’t notice her,” answered Jack.
Bill snorted. “You’re a pretty ’and at noticin’.
I could ’a done with a good milker, now I’m goin’
in for the dairyin’, too.”
“Why didn’t you snap her up when you was
there ? ”
Bill sighed. “ ’Taint so easy as talkin’. Sup-
pose she’d ’a cut up rough, ’ow’d I ’a felt ? ”
“’Tisn’t a murder,” said Jack, “astin’ a girl to
have you.”
“ It’s all very well for you; you ’ve been through
it. But I ain’t got a tongue like you.”
“You ain’t so far behind. It’s only pluck
what’s wanted. Tell her you ’re goin’ in for
dairyin’ and she’ll jump at you.”
But Bill only sighed and went on smoking.
“If you’d ’a told me, I’d ’a ast her for you,”
said Jack.
“ I wish I ’ad; but it’s too late now. It’s fifty
miles back.”
* * * • .
The two men were astir early next morning.
The hacks were soon saddled and the packs slung.
“ Have another drink ? ” said Bill.
They drank in silence, and turned the horses
towards the south.
Bill hesitated before starting.
“Suppose you was to go back to Dry Creek
store,” he said, “ and ast her?”
Jack thought a moment.
“There’s Mary,” said he; “she’s expectin’
me back with the oof to get spliced. She’d
wonder what ’appened.”
“ I’ll get on and tell ’er, and give ’er a ’and to
fix the house up.”
“ Right you are. What’s the girl’s name ? ”
“ Lucy Roberts.”
“Ta-ta.”
“Ta-ta,” answered Bill.
r So Jack rode north to propose for Bill, and Bill
rode south to console Mary.
* * » •
Lucy was waiting for the customers who seldom
came. She saw Jack ride up and evinced some
surprise.
“I supposed you’d be near home by this,” said
she. “ What’s brought you back ? ”
Jack did not answer for a moment. Lucy had
on a blue muslin gown with frills on it. It caught
Jack’s eye at once.”
“I kem back,” he answered at last, “to do a
bit o’ business that I forgot.”
“ Where’s your pal ? ”
“Gone down south. What are yer astin’ after
’im for?”
“Can’t I ask? I was rather shook on him.
Seemed a quiet sort, though.”
Jack did not answer. He sat on a vinegar
barrel and smoked.
Lucy was busy unpacking some goods and took
little notice of Jack for some time.
“It was on Bill’s account I kem back. He sent
a message for you.”
“Me? What could he want to say to me?”
Jack smoked awhile. Then—“ You seem mighty
eager to know.”
Well, so’d you be. There ain’t so much news
up this way.”
‘O, ’tain’t no news. ’Least not what you’d call
news.”
“What was it, then ? ”
Another silence, during which Lucy unpacked
salmon and stowed it away on a shelf.
“I’ll tell you to-morrow.”
“You’re an aggravatin’ man. Why can’t you
tell me now ? ”
“It’ll keep.”
Jack spent the rest of the afternoon on the
vinegar-barrel. Two or three times Lucy asked
him again for the message, but the only reply was
a grunt.
“ I don’t believe you’ve got anything to tell.”
“ That’s right,” said Jack, “’tain’t much.”
• • * •
Jack passed the night in the hay-loft for
economy’s sake, and next morning he was in the
store again watching Lucy. The latter teased
him at intervals to tell his secret, but without
success. That evening he and Lucy took a little
stroll in the moonlight over the bare plain, dry
and desolate.
“I didn’t take much notice of you last time I
was here,” Jack remarked; “you’re middlin’
good-lookin’.”
“0, talk sense !”said Lucy, blushing with plea-
sure. “Your mate’s a queer chap not to come
himself if he had a message for me.” she con-
tinued.
“My mate! Can’t you think of nothing but
my mate ? You needn’t worry about ’im.”
“He ain’t such a lady-killer as you, I do own,
but he ain’t bad. Was he a bit gone on me ? ”
“Maybe so, maybe not.”
“You’ve got a girl yourself, haven’t you?”
Jack gave a guilty start at the suggestion.
“I think we'd better be gittin’ back,” he said.
That night Jack did not sleep soundly. He
kept thinking—first of Lucy, then of Mary, then
of Bill.
“I’m ’is mate, and I’d oughter do what he sent
me for,” he concluded.
* • * *
Next morning he determined to finish the busi-
ness, and get away down south. He might have
done so, too, if Lucy had not appeared in another
dress. It was a wonderful thing that she usually
wore on Sundays; white, all covered with lace. Jack
noticed that she did not do much work that day.
She was afraid of spoiling the dress.
“Well, she knocks everything,” thought he.
“I thought Mary was a corker, but this ’un beats
her into a cocked ’at.”
He was tormented all day with thoughts of Bill
and Mary, and towards evening he determined, at
any cost, to deliver his message.
“I don’t think I’d do it if I was you,” he began.
“Do what?”
“ You know. What my mate wants you to.
He ain’t a bad sort, but he ain’t no ladies’ man.”
“ Does he want me to have ’im ? ”
“ That’s jest about it.”
Lucy took the news very calmly.
“ What ’ud you say about it ? ” she asked.
“ Didn’t I jest tell you ? ”
“ Why shouldn’t I take ’im? I cottoned to ’im
at once.”
“ There might be others wants you.”
“Who?”
Jack abruptly left the shop, and did not return
that day. He came next day,
however, and seated himself as
before.
“ Me,” he said, after a while.
“You! Why couldn’t you
say 30 yesterday, then? You
seem pretty seared. Are you
afraid of that other girl you
told me about ? If you are, you
can git out; I don’t want you.”
“ No, I’m not.”
“ Do you mean biz, straight
wire ? ”
“ Yes, I do.”
“I’ll ’ave you, then.”
* * •
Meanwhile Bill was on the
road to the south. He crossed
the Murray at Albury, and
made his way up the Ovens.
He thought a good deal of
Jack’s mission, and not without
some conflicting hopes and
fears.
“ I’ll have to go back and see
her, I s’pose, if she’s willin’.
Cursed ’umbug, courtin’; I
wish it was over. Glad I didn’t
have to go back makin’ eyes to
her before she’d took me on.
She’s a nice lookin’ piece,
though.”
The fourth day after leaving
Jack he arrived at the Upper
Ovens, and made straight for
Mary’s home. Mary kept house
for her old father and mother.
The old lady was as deaf as a post, so Bill and
Mary could talk freely without being overheard.
“ Where’s Jack ?” were Mary’s first words.
“He ain’t down yet. Won’t be here for a day
or two.”
Mary looked rather depressed at this.
“I thought he’d sure to be here by now ; what
kept him ?”
Jack was silent. He felt somewhat in a
dilemma.
“ Dunno,” he answered shortly.
“ Was the shearin’ good ? I suppose not ? ”
“ Wust year we ever had, though we did better
than some. I think Jack’s got enough of the
needful to start yer.”
“ He should have been here as soon as you,’’
pouted Mary.
“I told him I’d see you and tell you he was
all right. And I was to give you a ’and to fix up
about the ’ouse if you wanted it.”
“I won’t touch his house till he comes back,”
said Mary, unexpectedly shedding tears. “P’raps
not then. I suppose he’s got another girl. That’s
about the size of it.”
“ Not he,” said Bill. “He loves you
true.”
“No, he don’t. He wouldn’t have
stayed away if he did. Would you if
you was him ? ”
AN EXTRAORDINARY MAN.
SHEPHERD: “My good woman, did your
husband do that to your eye? ”
LADY : “ Me ’usband ! Oh, dear,
no! Why, he treats me more
like a friend than a ’usband.”
Bill went again next day to see Mary. She
was still hard set against Jack.
“ I thought he’d ’a caught me up before this.
I kem slow,” owned Bill.
“ What did he stay for ? ”
Bill found himself blushing furiously. Then
he told her all. Strange to say, Mary was not at
all appeased.
“He’s been there all this time with that —that
She paused, remembering Bill’s presence.
Next day passed, and still no Jack.
“What right had he to stay with her? He
must have liked ’er,” said Mary.
Bill was silent. Appearances were certainly
hard to explain.
Bill laid himself out to entertain Mary in Jack’s
absence, and succeeded tolerably well. He became
quite talkative, and was surprised to find under
his usual reserve a considerable store of conversa-
tion and anecdote which Mary appeared to enjoy.
The latter could not forgive Jack’s non-appearance.
She remained hard and cold when his name was
mentioned.
“I wondered whether he was all right,” she
admitted to Bill one day. “He’as the gift of
the gab something wonderful.”
“ I prefer haetions,” said Bill.
“Me too. He can go for all me. I don’t want
him.”
Bill began to revolve the whole problem in his
mind and examine it from every standpoint. He
was decidedly taken with Mary, and in the four
or five times they had been together the good
impression had steadily increased.
“ She’d do me as well as the other,” he thought
“and maybe better.” ’
His good feeling was evidently reciprocated
and Mary watched for his coming with interest. ’
* * • •
But Bill was not satisfied about Jack. Some-
thing might have delayed him through no fault
of his own. If Jack had really proved false to his
trust, Bill was quite prepared to ask Mary for her
hand, but he was resolved not to commit himself
till he knew all the facts.
“ I think I’ll be goin’ back to look for Jack,” he
remarked to Mary next day. “ Something might
’a kept him.”
Mary flushed. “He ain’t worth botherin’
about.”
“ I think I’ll go, anyhow.”
“P’raps you won’t come back either,” said
Mary with a little quaver in her voice.
“You bet I will. I’ll square up with Jack,
and then I’ll be here again.”
Mary actually cried when he left.
“She’s all right,” thought Bill: “ I’ll ’ave ’er if
Jack don’t.”
Then he saddled his old cob and set off north to
look for Jack.
• * * *
He had just cleared Albury when he met Jack
face to face.
“ You’ve bin a long time,” said Bill.
“ Pretty middlin’.”
“Let’s have a drink.”
They repaired to a little public-house on the
outskirts of the town and had drinks.
“ Did you find ’er ? ” asked Bill.
“ Rather; did you see Mary ? ”
“I did. Did you tell Luce what I said ?”
“Yes. Did you tell Mary?”
There was a long pause here.
“I don’t think Luce ’ud jest suit you,” said
Jack. “She likes a talker.”
“ I don’t believe Mary’s your ’eight either. She
likes a quiet man.”
“Luce was narked because you didn’t come
yourself and tell her.”
“Mary was ratty because you was so long in
cornin’.”
Another long pause.
“1 don’t think Luce ’ud have you,” said
Jack.
“I believe Mary’s chucked you, too,” said
Bill.
Another pause.
“In fact Luce said as much. She thinks a
mighty lot of you, but—but—fact is, I believe
she took to someone else.”
“ Meanin’ you ? ”
“ Well, I didn’t quite say that, but —”
“Mary’ll do me, if you’re agreeable, and }'<>«'
can have Luce.”
A look of intense relief shot over Jack’s face-
He stretched out his hand to his mate. “Shake
’ands on it, mate ! ”
Then Jack turned north again to bring Lu6y
down, and Bill turned south to help Mary tyr
about the house.
E. PARKER.


Wheb Grass
is ripe
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
GOD CUPID sauntered West one day
To make a backhlocks raid.
He shot at all that came his way,
And oh, the bag he made !
Uncounted brace he brought to grass,
When, strolling by a river,
He saw a fair young couple pass,
He gripped his weapon, but, alas !
No shafts were, in the quiver.
"The deuce!” he said, “I am a dunce
To come across such game
With not a dart”—when, all at once,
The inspiration came.
There was a scream, a flutt’ring shake,
A peal of laughter mocking,
As Cupid watched them through a break,
And then : " Oh, Jack I—a snake ! a snake!
It hit me—through—the sto-cking! ”
The god departed with a grin,
And left to Jack to trace
The wound he had inflicted in
So delicate a place.
But ere towards the East he trekked
To ply the trade that harrows,
He made a note to this effect:
A grass-seed is the thing correct
If you are out of arrows 1
VON KOTZE.
The New Scholar.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN I had Coolibah Greek school I was
a young man, 21, fresh from the city—
in fact, this was my first scholastic
essay. One Monday morning, shortly alter
school was in, the door opened slowly, and a wild
hoodlum face protruded itself into the room.
“ Good-day, Mister; I’ve come to school.”
I recognised the youth as Ike Regan, usually
employed at “picking-up” in the local wool-
scourer’s shearing-shed.
“ Come in, Isaac !”
“Ih?” ejaculated the youth, puzzled by the
preenomen.
“ Gome in, I say,” I repeated.
Ike complied coolly. There was a suppressed
snigger all round the school at his appearance. I
said “ Order 1 ” and then scanned the new-comer’s
attire. He was bootless and coatless. His trousers
had been white moles, but many days of tarring
had altered that. The same with his shirt. He
had a “ wipe,” as he called it, round his neck, and
a greenhide belt supported his trousers. He
simply wore his everyday “ tarring” clothes, and
had not thought school worthy of a change. I
proceeded to register his age, and asked —“Your
age?”
. 7 I know ! ” quoth Isaac, without any
hesitation.
There were ominous coughs and bursts at the
rear, and I glared at Ike and told him to remember
that he was at school and must be careful of his
words. ‘Righto,” said he. I put his age down
as 17. He looked every day of that—short, broad
and sinful-looking. His face was a study when I
queried, “Religion?” “Nothing like that,” he
answered, promptly. A further giggle or two
from behind. After restoring order among the
classes, I returned to the questioning.
“ Parent’s occupation ?”
“ Me father’s on the tank.”
I was puzzled. I knew of several parents “on
the tank,” simply because I boarded at the local
pub. Ike, however, came to the rescue by ex-
plaining that his father was “on the wool-wash-
ing tank at the scour.”
“Ah, I see,” I said. “Laborer.” All this
time I had my eye on a slow, rolling motion of the
jaws. “Go outside and spit it out, Ike.”
“ I’ve got no plug.”
“Never mind; go outside and spit it out, all
the same,” and I winked. He went surlily, and
returned looking defiant. A short talk followed,
in which I impressed on him the necessity of
guarding his language and conduct while at
school. He listened to some of it, but, in the
middle of the “yarn,” he stepped swiftly to an
open window and ejected a sterling dark-brown
spit that would have got him eight days if
deposited on a Sydney footpath. I spoke to him
sternly, but he eyed me like a savage dog, when
one goes to strike it, and I—well, I changed the
subject. I did not, at present, want to risk a
“ turn-up ” with this young giant. I resumed my
examination of him. “ I will find out what you
can do, Ike,” I said.
I found that he knew his letters, but had little
idea of combining them into words. When I
spelt out “ r-o-u-n-d,” he thought for a moment,
shook his head, and then said, “ No, mister,
you’ve got me beat.” I let that go, and said,
“Well, here’s something in your own line, point-
ing to the bale-brand on a piece of canvas, which
was doing temporary duty for a window. It read :
“Skins, Lambs, Maneroo.” I spelt out for Ike
“L-a-m-b-s.” “Oh, an easy one,” laughed he.
“Hogget.” “No,” I replied; “it is lambs.”
“Never mind,” quoth Ike ; “ I was jolly near, at
all events.” He was, I found, good at addition; had
kept the tallies for the shearers, and when I tried
him with the pen, he flourished, and with tongue
wagging from his mouth and following the move-
ments of the nib, he wrote in a fairly good hand
the word “Women.”
“All right, that will do, Ike. Go into that
seat next to Pat Kennedy.”
I turned to the press to put away the roll
and the register, when there was a sound of a
scuffle. I faced round in time to see Isaac with
Paddy’s nose screwed round in an astonishing
fashion in his left hand, while with his right he
had commandeered Paddy’s slate and pencil. He
also calmly observed, “Not too slow.”
That was just what I thought. Seldom, indeed,
was the monotony of school thus relieved. I read
him a severe lecture accompanied by a distinct
threat, but, judging by his looks, he considered
the threat amusing.
All that morning I had to watch him. He did
no work; simply stood or sat staring at maps
on the wall, winking at the girls, or shaking his
dirty fist at the other boys when he thought I was
not looking. An experienced teacher, however,
arranges his glazed pictures and revolving win-
dows so as to form a fairly perfect mirror of the
inside school; hence my detection of Ike in that
performance, and later on, in a more serious
offence.
Dinner-time came and I “hiked” it home.
When I returned I saw an excited, surging ring of
boys down in the corner of the playground. A
fight, of course. “ Into him, Ginger ! ” “Scrag
him, Arty ! ” Then arose this manly voice,
Right in the peeper. Never mind, rub
some sand in it, Ginger.”
I went down and stopped the thing. “Kelly
and Johnson, walk inside.” The combatants
obeyed, but Ike turned nasty.
“Look here, Mister,” he said,
“ can’t we do what we like out
here?”
“Certainly not,” I assured him,
watching him all the time,
“ Eh ? ” edging up to me.
I began to grow anxious. No-
thing would lower my standing,
both with the boys and their
parents, more than a stand-up fight
with a pupil. But Ike had cleared
for action. Both fists were shut,
and he attempted to walk round
me.
“Come into school with me, my
lad,” I said suddenly. “I want to
talk to you.”
After some hesitation Ike fol-
lowed, and when we were inside I
read to him Departmental Regula-
tion 105: “Teachers may admit
or exclude children over 15 at their
own discretion.”
“Now, Ike,” I said, “I am
going to exclude you.”
“What’s that '/” ho said, at the
same time slowly cutting up some
tobacco.
“It means,” I told him, “that
I decline to have you at school.
Tell your parents so, You are
over i 5, and your conduct is very
bad.”
He merely grunted and looked
round, and I saw his eyes glisten.
He put the hand that held the
pocket-knife carelessly behind his
back and stepped back towards my
new bicycle, which was just behind
him—making an irrelevant remark
about “shearing to-morrow.” I
glanced up at a rear window, and
there, as I knew would be so, was
mirrored the whole of Ike’s back,
and most of the “bike.” What I
saw made me jump up, with a
savage “Now, then; what are
you ” But I was too late. There
was a soft, insinuating hiss, then
louder, and afterwards a little puff,
and my tyre was flat. He had cut
it. Completely enraged now, I
rushed at him, and, catching him
by the shoulder, I hustled him as
far as the verandah. Then I felt
his tough arms round my waist, and
I knew he had the better hold. We
struggled to and fro for an instant,
and staggered near an outstretched
leg. I knew its owner, and, look-
ing up, saw Paddy Kennedy’s eager
face, thirsting for revenge on Ike
for his screwed nose in the morn-
ing. I nodded, and Paddy, with a
vicious kick, knocked Ike’s right
leg from under him. Down he
went; nor did I spare my weight on
him. If a teacher has to fight, he
has to win.
I let Ike up. He was convinced,
and said so m shocking language,
but also mentioned the inevitable
“some other time.” I simply
said, “Go home, and don’t return !”
He went slowly, loading his pipe,
turning to shake his fist at me as he
passed out of the clearing.
I went inside, and ere getting
out my “repair outfit” for the
lacerated tyre, I took the school
register, and with a glad heart, I erased the name
of Isaac Regan from the Coolibah Creek school
register.
F.E.P.W.
A Poet of the Tombs.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ ® M Y HAT d’yer think of it?” asked the
W V man with the tired eyes and the
hole in his hat.
Old Jim, hermit prospector of Cooper’s Hill,
silently passed back the copy of the Wild Dog
Banner, and gazed through the open door of the
hut with eyes that glistened : “ It’s just as sad as
th’ rest of ’em ! ”
AN INDUSTRIOUS GUEST.
Drover Bill (to bush accommodation house-
keeper who is scraping the butter on bread
with her finger): “I say, Missus, if yer've
got any other work you wanter do Ell scatter
that butter fur meself.”
“ Sadder! ” whispered the owner of the hat, as
he stowed the paper away in a ragged pocket.
“This ’un is th’sixth pome I’ve wrote, an’each
one ’as bin— ”
“Worse ’n th’ last!” murmured Old Jim,
blinking vigorously to keep back the tears.
“Eh?”
“1 mean it’s bin sadder,” Jim corrected,
hastily. “More people sickenin’ fer th’ tomb, an’
wind whisperin’ over graves, an’ sich —more like
that! ”
“I’m improvin’, then?”
‘‘Th’ pomes is gettin’creepier,” said Old Jim.
sniffing gently. ’
The poet gtowed. “’Ow did yer like that bit
erbout th’ Mossy Tomb ? ”
“It—it reminded me o’ me pore ole aunt!”
Ihe old man furtively bruslied his sleeve across
his eyes.
“What’s wrong with th’ ole lady, Jim ?”
She’s dead 1” said Jim softly, staring out at
the sunshine.
, Th e poet coughed reverently. “When did it
appen ?’ he asked, after a respectful pause,
“’Bout thirty year ago,” murmured Jim, mop.
ping Ins nose.
Ihe poet’s voice was tremulous with emotion.
Did th’ ‘ Mossy Tomb ’ bring it all back t’ yer?”
“E-every bit of it! I—l kin almost—see ’er
grave w en—w’en I thinks ’bout that pome ! ”
The poet sighed and tried to suppress his
own emotion. “ W-where is th’ ole lady’s grave,
Jim ?”
There was a long silence. Both men sat and
listened to the flies.
“Well th’—th’ fack is, Bill”—Old Jim strug.
gled in the throes of an explanation—“she—ain’t
got one! ”
“ Jim—yer don’t mean t’ say she wasn’t ? ”
“She was drownded at sea!” moaned the old
man. “But th’pome m-makos me think—of th*
grave she— might 'ave ’ad ! ”
The poet drew out his verses and read them
ovor again.
“Got anythin’ t’ road, Jim?” lie inquired.
The old man got up without a worn, and wont
to his stretcher in the corner. He fumbled under
the bedclothes and produced a handful of papers,
which ho handed to the author. The poet took
them to the door and poored at them in the after-
noon sunlight. “Th’ Mossy Tomb,” he mur-
mured, lovingly; “Th’ Lonely Soul,” “Th’
Shadders o’ Night,” “When Tears Is Nigh,”
“ Th’ Moanin’ Tide,” “ Th’ Vanished ’Ope.”
He looked down at Jim, who was on nis knees
blowing at the fire. “ I see yer got ’em nil ?” he said.
Jim nodded sadly at the fire, and fanned gently
with his hat.
“I—l brought up another for yer, Jim ! ” Tho
poet drew a piece of crumpled paper from Lis
pocket and laid it on the table.
“ Wot’s—th’ name of it ?’’
“ ‘We Weeps in Darkness,’” the poet announced,
nervously.
Jim turned a haggard face on the author.
“Sad, I s’pose?”
“Sadder than ever!” sighed the poet.
A silence. Then, “Good ni’,” said the poet,
“S’ long!”
Jim waited for a minute, then ho got up and
looked out after the retreating author. “It’s
orright writin’,” he muttered. “It’s roal good
writin’, but I wish t’ God it was cheerfuller !”
Then.his gaze fell upon the latest manuscript.
He picked it up and sampled the first few lines.
When he looked up again he was blinking more
furiously than ever.
“Dammit!” he whispered, peevishly, “W’y
don’t th’ pore chap cheer up a bit?”
* • • •
“’Ow did yer enjoy this ’ere last one, Jim?"
The poet sat back in the darkest corner of tho
hut and watched Old Jim’s face, under tho lamp-
light.
Jim arose suddenly and took his chair into tho
opposite corner. “This ’ere one I got now?”
he inquired from out the gloom.
The poet squirmed gently on his gin-caso. “Is
that 1 We Weeps ’ ? ” he asked.
“Yes—this’ere’sit.” Jim’s speech was spas-
modic.
“Bill!” Old Jim spoke suddenly, from his
refuge of darkness—“ yer wanted—t’ know—’ow
I enjoyed this ’ere pome ? ”
' “Yes, Jim.”
“Well, Bill, look ’ere. This ’ere ’aint exactly
th’ sort of thing that can be enjoyed, can it
now ? ”
No answer.
Jim continued as if he were talking to a hidden
spectre. “ I—l like it well enough y' know, Bill,
but—well. Oh, you know, Bill ! ” All the per-
suasiveness in Old Jim’s soul was condensed into
the last sentence, but it drew no response from
the author.
“ Most people ” —Jim spoke like a man reading
aloud to himself. “Most people can ’predate
this kind of sorrowful po’try, but I find it too
wearin’. Most people can read it easy like, but
I can’t. Lots of these ’ere people”—he paused
like a reader turning a leaf—“ these po’try people
like havin’ th’ blue devils. I don’t, an’, what’s
more, I can’t stand ’em. I’ve read th’ stuff as
long as I can, but I carn’t do
it no more. It’s breakin’ me up.
Every time I look at ’em I cry
like a darned ole fool—you Ve
seen me at it yerself. Now Bill,
look here .”
The gin-case fell over with
a crash. Old Jim sprang up
just in time to lay a restrain-
ing hand on the poet’s arm as
he went to pass out.
“Yer not goin’, Bill?”
“ I thought you was a friend
o’ mine, Jim ? ”
Old Jim swallowed an oath.
“So I—am, Bill. Ain’t I? ”
He peered into the other’s
face and tried to grip his
hand, but the poet drew it
away.
“If yer don’t like my
po’try, Jim ” —he spoke in a
dreadful dispassionate way—
“ if yer don’t like it, yer can’t
like me.”
“ But Bill, old chap, it
ain’t that. Don’t yer think,
Bill—don’t yer think yer could
cheer up a little bit?”
Jim waspleading as he
had never pleaded be-
fore. “Try it for a
while, ole man. Chuck
th’ dam tombs an’ see if
yer can’t manage ’’
“ Take it or leave it, Jim 1”
sighed the poet.
Old Jim thought, and his grip
tightened on his friend’s arm ....
The poet moved slightly in his grasp, and some-
thing in his pocket rustled.
Old Jim gasped. “Got anythin’fresh there—
anythin’—fresh, Bill?’ he said, with a brave
attempt at a laugh. .
The poet touched his pocket caressingly, Jus
a little one, Jim ! ” .
Old Jim breathed hard and leant against the
door. “ Wot’s —th’ name ?” he asked, in a hollow
voice.
The author kicked aimlessly at a chip.
“ ‘Tombs In Th’ Weepin’ Rain,”’ he whispered.
The gleam of hope in Jim’s eye faded out. He
stared intently into space, and thought hard for
one minute. Then he held out his hand, and
spoke. “ Blowed if I could,” he said. “Goodni’l”
But the poet was already going down the track.
KODAK.


The Little Bank Clerk’s
Romance.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE paddocks lay under the moon in a
white, parched ghastliness. The gum-
trees were withered of all their leaves—
were so bare, indeed, that they shivered if by
chance a breeze ever happened to touch their
sun-burnt bodies. Even the mosquitoes seemed
denuded of their briskness; they bit languidly,
though none the less maddeningly.
Two people were standing by the slip-rails of
old Daddy Hexham’s paddock, one on one side,
one on the other. They leaned across, and their
heads came fairly close together, even with the
rails between them. She of the paddock had to
lean down to bring her eyes to the level of his, for
he was but a little fellow, the bank clerk. Seven-
teen last birthday, and sft. 4in. at the most.
She was tall for her age (15) and sft. Bin.
“Oh, you are pretty !”—he was looking ador-
ingly at her black curly hair and her fair,
freckled, childlike face.
“ I’m not,” she said, being glad she was.
“Yes, you are.”
“Father says I’m a hare-brained cockatoo”—
picking little bits of wood from the rails in front
of her.
“By Jove! My father calls me names some-
times, but nothing as neat as that.”
“ What’s he call you ? ”
“Oh, he calls me an ass, or a mutton-head, or
curses a bit at me when I ask him for any cash.”
“ Why ? Isn’t he rich ? ”
“Oh, he’s awfully rich, my father. Every-
body knows him in Sydney. He says he wouldn’t
be rich, though, if he gave all his money away.”
“That’s what my father says when I ask him
for thrippence for the collection.”
“ You didn’t go to chapel last night.”
“No. He—he wouldn’t let —I mean—he—I—
I mean I didn’t care.”
He connected her stumble and omission with her
remark about the threepenny-bit. “ I hate going
too, if I don’t put anything in, ” tactlessly con-
soling her.
“Oh, that wasn’t the reason,” and she tossed
her head ; and he knew that it was.
“I—l—picked some flowers,” he said quickly,
looking remorsefully at her.
“Did you ? ” indifferently.
"Yes.”
“ S’pose you gave them to Liz Hardy.”
“I didn’t. I —I — there they are.” They were
lying in a stiff bunch on the footpath, in the
shadow of the fence. He picked them up and
brought them to her.
She didn’t offer to take them, and he was hurt.
He had stolen them, too. “Don’t you want
them ? ”
“ Oh, I don’t care.”
“Go on; have them,” pushing them into her
folded arms as they rested on the top rail.
“They do smell nice,” she said. She buried
her face in them, and kept it there for a long
time, and the boy stood watching her all the
while.
At last she raised her head, and her eyes with
their rich blaok lashes met his, and looked softly
at him.
“ Cis, ” he said, suddenly.
“What?”
“Give me a kiss.” His whisper was intense
but very low. She started a little.
‘‘Oh, I can't,” she said. But somehow, in
spite of the “ can’t,” the little freckles on her cool
child-cheeks were touched by his boyish lips, and
before she could turn her head he had kissed her
once near her ear. Next minute she was running
hard across the paddocks to her little home over
the slope, and he was standing alone by the slip
rails, red still with the .boldness of that kiss of
his.
* * » #
The manager of the Australian Reconstructed
Bank at Nurra Murra was sitting at breakfast
next morning with his wife, and the little clerk,
when a note was handed to him :
Dere Sir,— this is to sifrniffy will you please keep your
boy from talking to my girl Ois at the slipp rales and the
back gate, and givin her flowrs out of your place, and a
lire birds tale, i see her there last nigh t she was talking
to him an he givin her flowrs, instead of washin the milk
pans, an skim the milk i had to, hoping you will speke.
i am yours etc Thomas Hexham.
The manager read this through four times, each
time with more and more astonishment. Doodie,
his eldest son, was just cutting Iris third tooth.
“ Don’t they say that Daddy Hexham is mad ? ”
he said, looking up. “Read that,” handing the
note to his wife. While she was reading it, his
NOT LIKELY.
PORTER: " Are all these your own children, or is it a picnic ?”
SUFFERING WIFE: "They're all my own, please God, and it's no picnic. ”
eye was attracted by the slow tide of color creep-
ing treacherously over the little bank clerk’s face,
as he sat with his eyes on the top of his eggshell-
Then his wife looked up, met his eye, opened her
mouth a little, then looked with him to the boy
on the opposite side of the table, whose eyes were
on his egg, and again looked at him.
He understood. “I am quite satisfied with the
butter we’re getting,” she said, nonchalantly
putting the note in her pocket and carelessly help-
ing herself to honey, but alive to the drooped eye-
lashes and flushed face of the youth in white
flannels and pale-blue tie.
“Shall I speak to him?” said the manager
afterwards. “What am Ito say? I don’t know
what to say. Hadn’t you better do it?”
“Oh, I think you’d better. Though I don’t
know at all what you could say. He’s such a dear
little fellow, and such a baby, and his calf-love is
really too pretty to be spoilt. ”
“And what is Daddy’s daughter like”?
“ A pretty child—black hair, big grey eyes, and
freckles; long legs, a will of her own, and inclined
to be forward, I believe, My nurse-girl is her
sister, and she has been here once or twice to see
her.”
“How old?”
“Fourteen or fifteen.”
‘ ‘ Oh, look here ! Daddy can do it himself. Let
him manage his own affairs. I don’t think I’ll
interfere ”
But a second note came not very long after-
wards
Dere Sir i write you anoethr leter aye you spoke to
Him my daughter meeting Him an she has got a green
Oats eye brooch he given her she says he didunt and will
you put a stopps to it dere sir she dont do her work
propper at hall alwys thinckin aboth Him an no milk
palls Clene so will you have kindniss to speke
Yours in good
faith
Thomas Hexham
The manager laughed over this a little uneasily.
“ Green cat’s-eyes,” he said to his wife. “What
stage of love-making do they represent ? ”
“The '\ery finish,” she said promptly; “and
the only one in which interference is warrantable.
I think you had better give the boy a hint; and
at once. Tell him you want to take him over to
Bullabee station one day—to Monketty another.
It’s such a deadly dull little place here that the
boy is forced to make amusement for himself
somehow. But speak to him soon—before the
cat s eye stage passes."
The manager didn’t like the job. But he spoke
to the little bank clerk that day. They were
smoking together on the verandah after tea. The
manager made many beautiful rings, and watched
them change and float into nothingness before he
approached the subject. At last:
“I want to speak to you about that little
Hexham girl,” he said.
The little bank clerk started violently. The
manager looked away.
“Wh-what?” said the bank clerk.
“Her father wrote to me,” said the manager.
“It seems you’ve been giving her cat’s-eyes, old
man.” His voice was jocular.
“Who told you that?” asked the bank clerk.
He got hold of his voice with a great effort, but
there was a tremble in it still.
“I’d like to take you about a bit more,” said
the manager. “Nurra Murra isn’t the liveliest
place in the world for a young fellow like you,
just up from Sydney ; but there are a lot of nice
g people on the stations round, and we could
take a spin out there in the sulky, now that the
evenings are getting so deuced long.”
The little bank clerk said nothing whatever.
“There are the Cliftons at Bullabee station,
and the MTntoshes at Monketty, and the Ashers.
They would all be glad to see you. You’ve been
here two months now, so it’s time you got to know
some of them. A bank clerk is a somebody in
these little backblock places. You don’t know
what a lot people think of a bank clerk, especially
when he can sing and vamp, as you can.”
He made some more rings.
“ As for that little Miss Hexham,” he went on.
“ Nice little girl, but—she has to milk cows all her
life—don’t—her father—oh, well, it’s not my busi-
ness—upon my soul .”
“No, ’ said the little bank clerk.
He had been silent so long that the other was
startled.
“Well, but you know,” deprecatingly, “that
you’re not more than a youngster. I suppose I
ought to keep an eye on you somewhat.”
“ Whose business is it ? ” said the bank clerk,
fiercely. “If I like to give a girl cat’s-eyes, who
does it hurt ? ”
“Well, if she leaves the milk-pails for her
father to wash and doesn’t look after her work ? ”
“She does,” said the bank clerk, excitedly.
“She works all day. She’s always working.
And her father’s a beastly old screw ; he never
gives her a penny. Who says she doesn’t work ? ”
“ Oh, well, I daresay she does then ; but ”
“ It’s a lie at any rate. She works a jolly sight
harder than any other girls—a jolly sight too
hard. How would you like to see Mrs. Rennetall
washing carts, chopping down trees, feeding pigs?
That’s what she does. I’ve seen her do it.”
And the manager perceived that it was useless
to argue with a youth who compared his—the
manager’s-—wife to the sister of her own nurse-
girl. He left the ensuing silence undisturbed
and went on smoking.
But that same evening he went to the little
post-office with some letters, and came upon no
less a person than Cis herself. On the spur of
the moment he followed her as she turned to go
out, and spoke to her. “Excuse me,” he said,
politely, “but you are Daddy Hexham’s daughter,
are you not ?”
“ Yairs,”she answered, her grey, thickly-lashed
eyes looking boldly into his. He thought: “ What
an exceedingly pretty child she is ! ” They went
down High-street together—the manager talking,
Cis listening.
“An’you want me not to meet him again, do
you ? Just becos my father wrote to you.”
<( “ I wish you wouldn’t, ” said the bank manager.
“You see, your father has written to me twice,
and what am Ito do? If you will just promise
me.”
“ Well, then, I won’t,” she said, blazing on him
suddenly l , while the red color flew into her cheeks,
and her eyes were on fire with angry light. “I
won’t promise. I will talk to him whenever I
like. An’ ymu and my father are two old devils.”
Then Cis ran away down the road.
“ I wash my hands of them,” said the manager.
* * * *
It was in the second week of February that
Nurra Murra roused itself a little from its heat-
begotten lethargy, and stirred into a fizzle of
excitement over the one great event of the year,
the Nurra Murra show. Three M’s.L.A. came
up from -Sydney ; the two hotels were full.
Everybody had somebody staying with him, for
Nurra Murra always asked its friends to come and
visit it in February. It liked the outer world to
know that it, too, could be gay r sometimes. “You
must come and stay with us at show time,” was
the common Nurra Murra invitation.
The bank manager and his wife, the two
M’s.L.A. and their wives, a society giid from
Melbourne, and two rich squatters made up one
of the most fashionable parties of the show. The
manager’s wife had counted on the little bank
clerk as an extra embellishment for her set, for
he was a nice-looking little fellow, and knew how
to dress, but he had evaded her after breakfast,
and had left the bank some time before the others.
It was just before
lunch time that two
people came on to the lawn
and began a promenade that
drew all eyes upon them. One of
the two was the little bank clerk, dressed in
his latest cut duck suit, with an irrepressible tie,
and a silk puggaree round his hat.
The other was Cissie Hexham. She wore u
dress that had long represented to her mind a
triumph of art—pink, “ relieved ” with buttercup
yellow, a, little the worse for fading, and gaping
threateningly at one or two seams, but, withal,
brilliant and glowing. The color scheme was
a little confused, and included a cheap hat of
purple-colored straw, adorned with green and
yellow ribbons and flowers.
Her boots gaped in one or two places, but that
was only a minor point ; nor did gloves matter.
Cis was proudly conscious of being well-dressed.
And thus, with the little bank clerk beside her,
she smilingly paraded up and down among what the
district paper called “ the elite of Nurra Murra.”
As the bank manager, and the Melbourne girl, and
the two M’s.L.A., were going towards the refresh-
ment-room they met these two face to face. The
bank clerk reddened a little, and gazed calmly,
affably at them.
“How do you do? Nice day, isn’t it?’’she
smiled past him at the Society girl; then at the
two M’s.L.A. ; nodded to them all in turn, and
passed on with the crowd. And all through the
afternoon, whenever she saw the manager she
repeated the nod and smile, including always
whoever was with him.
At four o’clock he had a headache and went
home.
* * * *
It was just a week later. The manager had
determined to ignore the affair, and though his
wife put a little ice in her tones whenever she
spoke to the bank clerk, the subject had never
been openly alluded to. On the Monday follow-
ing the show the manager and his wife were in
their sitting-room after dinner, when there was a
knock at the door.
“Come in,” said the manager.
The door opened, and Cissie Hexham entered.
She looked straight at the manager.
“Kin I speak to you?” she said.
“ Certainly,” said the manager, frigidly.
“ By yourself,” looking at his wife, who imme-
diately rose and left the room.
“What is it you want ? ” asked the manager.
“Look!” she said, “I brought’em back, and
you can give ’em to him.”
She was putting down on the table various
packages from her laden arms. “That’s the
cat’s-eye brooch,” she said. “I never wore it;
and there’s the photo, and there’s the hair-strings,
and there” (laying a long, strangely-shaped
newspaper parcel on the table) “there’s the lyre-
bird’s tail.”
“What do you mean? ’
“I am saved,” she said, simply. Her hands
clasped themselves before her, and she looked at
him earnestly. “It was last night at chapel. We
had three sermons preached us by a man from
Sydney—a revival they call him, and he converted
me and my sister at 9 o’clock last night. I’m
going to give up worldly things now, so 1 brought
back all o’ them, and I’m- not going to see him no
more.”
The manager was at a loss for words.
“ An’ I must apologise for calling you a devil.
Will you give them all back to him ? ”
“ I suppose 1 must,” said the manager.
“ I knoo you would be glad,” she said.
“ Well, I don’t know —hadn’t you better give
them to him yourself ? ”
“No, I’ve give up the world, and I don’t want
to see him —no more."
There was a possible inflection of sadness in her
tones.
“I am glad,” said the manager, “that you—”
he paused, “are”—(what word shall he use?)
“are—have been—that you are happy.” he ended
lamely.
“ I am,” said Cis. “ Thank you. Yes, I am.”
There was a little pause. She was looking at
the packages on the table.
“ Well, good-bye,” said Cis at last.
“ Good-night, ” said the manager; he held his
hand out.
“ Good-bye,” she said again.
She moved towards the door. Then she stopped.
Witli the room between them he could see the red
tint rising in her cheek. She made another little
moventent to go, then stopped again, and stood,
first on one leg, then on another. And then:
“Tell him I sent him a kiss,” she said in a
whisper, and she was gone.
* * * *
The bank manager fulfilled her trust even to
the last item. The little bank clerk paid a visit
to the kitchen fire, and had reddened eye-lids for
two days after.
But, strange to say, he put the blame of his
broken romance on the poor manager’s shoulders.
From then till the day he left Nurra Murra lie
treated the latter with cold civility that was as
near to rudeness as he dared to make it, evaded all
his kindly overtures of friendliness, crusted him-
self round with a little impenetrable shell, and at
the bottom of his heart believed bitterly that only
for the manager’s interference he and Cis would
some day have been happily married and living in
a bank of their own.
He never forgave the manager and Cis never
spoke to him again. She had “given up the
world ” —cat’s-eyes and all.
LOUISE MACK


THE BAILIFFS
ROMANCE
METHINKS I see his shadow yet
Nose, beard, and pipe and all—
A strange, fantastic silhouette
Upon the lamp-lit wall !
His head was thatohed with shaggy hair
That, like his throat, was dry ;
And ever on the bottle square
He kept a glassy eye.
His coat, which once was black, in green
Old age survived its prime ;
He looked a figure from a scene
In some old pantomime.
And yet he had an easy grace,
This anoient, battered gnome,
And knew the way, in any place,
To make himself at home.
n.
When first his presence met my gaze
I lived ’midst glooms and gleams . . .
0 hunted, haunted, happy days
Of debt, and drink, and dreams !
He did not with a loud acclaim
My humble home invade ;
Unostentatiously he came,
And quietly he stayed.
He trod as if he stepped on eggs;
He did not spurn the mat,
Nor on the table place his legs,
Nor spit upon the oat.
He saw my pen was moving free,
And waved a shaky hand
To warn himself—“’Tis poetry,”
He sighed, “I understand ! ”
“ Don’t let me interrupt the Muse ! ”
Addressing me, he said—
“ For I can soon shake off my shoes,
And tumble into bed.”
I said he need not be an ass,
Although of Law a limb;
And then with beer I filled a glass
And handed it to him.
He took it with a courtly bow—
“ Your health and wealth ! ” said he . . .
“ The Pome that you are writin’ now—
What might its subjeck be ?”
I glared at him from feet to head,
And answered savagely:
“ A tale of Blighted Love,” I said.
“It mostly is,” said he.
I quickly saw and seized my chance :
“It’s clear to me,” I cried,
“That you have had your
sad Romance 1 ”
“You bet I have!” ho
sighed.
“Though I my pride have
had to sink,
And come and haunt you
so,
You must not think ’twas
merely drink
That brought me down so
low.”
A sunbeam touched him
standing there,
And did his nose illume;
He tossed his shock of
shaggy hair
As if it were a plume.
111.
“Full oft my memory recalls
(Again he hoarsely sighed)
The times when I have sat
in halls—
In marble halls of pride.
“ I’ve hung my hat on figures
f?ay
Of gods with bows and
wings,
And knocked the ashes from
my clay
On busts of busted kings.
‘ But that was when I was
a swell
With collar white and tie;
No other Bailiff dressed so
well,
Nor held his head so high.
“They put me in upon a gent
That lived in Darlin’hust;
He had gone backward in
his rent,
And mostly lived on trust.
“My Gawd, sir,
’twas a noble
Home
He lived in, free
and gay ;
His droring - room
was quite a
Pome,
As even you would
say.
* ‘I stepped into that
droring-room,
So splendid to be-
hold,
And sat upon a
couch, abloom
With roses done
in gold*
“ A servant, smil-
ing, superfine—
I hate that kind
of ass !
Brough t sherry wine
that seemed to
shine
Like sunlight in
the glass.
“ I drank it with a
sort of shame,
But, when they
sent some more,
I knew at once their
little game—
I’d seen it all be-
fore.
‘ ‘ They thought with
drink to bring
me round
To do what they would ask ;
But, sir, my morals then were sound —
And I could hold a cask.
IV.
" They gave the job up in despair;
The house grew like a tomb;
When suddenly I was aware
Of someone in the room.
“ Her yellow hair so beautiful,
That seemed with light to leap,
Was finer than the finest wool
Upon merino sheep.
“ She held a finger to her lips—
A pretty sight to see—
And then across the room she trips
And stands in front of me.
“ ‘Kind sir,’ she says, and twists a curl
That shades her fair young face—
‘ Take pity on an orphan girl
Who’s in an evil case.’
“ Her language was refined and choice ;
She neither shrieked nor screamed ;
Her soft, smooth, guava-jelly voice
Extract of music seemed.
“ She said she was an heiress still,
Although her guardian grim
Kept urging her to make a will
And leave her wealth to him.
“ He shut her in a room, she said,
And double-locked the door,
And she was fed on gingerbread
For seven long years and more.
“ But she had baulked his baleful plan,
And kept him from a crime,
Yet had not seen the face of man,
Save his, in all the time.
“And then she blushed with charming grace,
And said with candour fine,
That she in dreams had seen a face
With eyes and nose like mine.
“ My heart beat fast, as if a glad
New wedding-march it played ;
Says I unto myself— 1 My lad,
Your fortune’s surely made ! ’ ”
The bailiff here a tear let fall,
And turned a trifle pale,
And beat his head against the wall,
And then resumed his tale.
V.
“ That day—a curious circumstance—
Her door was left ajar,
And she had seized the happy chance,
She said, to walk so far.
“ But much she feared her guardian base
Would find her; would I, please,
Go with her to a quiet place
Where we could talk at ease ?
“ I would have died at her command !
As she swam up the stair
I thought of Jacob’s Ladder, and
The Angels climbing there.
THE HEATHEN IN HIS BLINDNESS.
THE PENITENT (calling out to his fellow-sinner) : “Num me ballyrash ne pvmmiki hokum! Soodum hoodoowah
likktchkum pom-pom! ” Which, being interpreted, is to say: “If you ever mean to bash the gentleman,
for wood-and-stone's sake hurry up; this is a deuced uncomfortable position to maintain when you're not
used to it.” Which, of course, the good man, being but newly-arrived, did not understand a word of.
And so—the unexpected happened.
“ Sh* brought mo to a chamber small
Where spiders had their lair;
It had no furniture at all
But one three-legged ohair
“ On that frail seat she made me sit
while she
Walked up and down, and, bit by bit,
Revealed her heart to me.
“ I will not tell you all she said—
I oould not if I tried;
But, sir, she stroked this grizzled head,
And turned away and sighed,
“ And said when first she saw my face
She had an instinct keen
That I was come of noble race,
And better days had seen.
“I could not disappoint the girl,
And said I was tne sole
Son living of a haughtj Earl
Who’d been by gipsies stole
“And to Australia took away—
It was a story tall,
But like the Lady in the play
She calmly swallowed all.
VI.
11 1 thought my hand was full of trumps,
And was with pride aglow,
When noises strange of thumps and bumps
Came faintly from below.
“But could I dream, while she was near,
These noises strange might prove
To mean a flitting cheffonier
Or sofa on the move ?
“I could not. As I gazed on her,
So lovely, standing by,
Whate’er might move I could not stir—
She held me with her eye.
* At last when all the sounds had died,
‘ I know that you’ll be true,
Dear creature, to the trust,’ she cried,
‘ That I will place in you.
“ ' I have a box of jewels rare—
To me an incubus—
I wish to place them in your care,
To keep for me—for u* /
“‘lgo to get it; wait for me I*
She vanished through the door ;
The moments came and went, but she
Came never, nevermore.
“ A sound of wheels rose from the street;
The window up I threw;
And then a sight my gaze did greet
That broke my heart in two.
“ A row of loaded vans began
To turn the corner; she
Was perched upon the hindmost van—
And blew a kiss at me.
“I’ve heard of one called Antony,
Who lost the world for pure,
Sheer love; but I lost more than he—
Five vans of furniture.”
VIT.
Now I’ve grown rich on writing pomes
I laugh at bailiffs grim ;
But when I see these battered gnomes
I often think of him.
And fancy I behold him yet—
Voice, beard, and pipe, and all—
A dissolute old silhouette
Upon the sunlit wall.
N.B.W.
CREEVE BOB .
On the Threshold.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THEY were three —Steel, and Steel’s wife,
and Steel’s partner. They lived on a
cattle-run dropped into the heart of the
Mackenzie country, where leagues of stern hills
clogged their feet to the lonely paths that breed
all the primeval issues of life.
The partner’s name was Blackwood. He was a
very much better man than Steel, and on the day
that proved this Mrs. Steel sought Blackwood
where he worked, in the station smithy. For
there, had happened a thing that must be
spoken of once.
Her shadow fell from the doorway across the
red iron that Blackwood was beating, and he sent
away the boy who blew the forge. Then he
looked up.
“You’ll be able to use your pony-cart to*
morrow,” he said. “ I put a plate over that craok
in the shaft.”
Her hand* were gripped by her sides, thumbs
oat, and, aa he noticed, he smiled a very little.
You needn’t mind so much. I was in time.
I had only ”
“ To say that you had written the cheque your-
self. Yes; I know. You had only to tell a lie—
to save him.”
She was a dark little woman, who had never
had love enough to round her cheeks or her life,
and her voice made Blaokwood think of a sorrow-
ful child.
He wheeled from the anvil and oame up to her.
“ I did it to save you. I’d do anything under
Heaven to save you pain, if I oould.”
Thank you,” the said, simply; “you are very
kind.”
Kind 1 ” said Blackwood, and laughed.
Kind! To you/” And, at his tone, a sudden
wave of understanding caught her, sweeping her
into knowledge.
"Ah!” she cried, and turned from him with
her face hidden, while Blackwood fought in the
undertow, wroth with himself, wroth that, since
he was a man, he could not touch her in her
weakness.
"1 never meant you to know. On my honor,
I didn’t; I love you too much to—to trouble
you ”
She was crying as a man cries, without tears ;
and Blackwood knew that the way of it is to rend
the very soul.
"You brute,” he said to himself underbill breath;
“ you brute !” _ Then he chose his words carefully.
“ The blame is mine for telling you. 1 know
there is not—there never can be—oh, God !
I’m he turned, and walked to the anvil,
handling the half-welded iron with blind fingers.
Presently he came back. “ This need not make
any difference. I will not nnnoy you again.
And my being here makes things easier for you
sometimes, doesn’t it ? ”
If she had not been a woman she would have
laughed. All the station hands knew what Steel
was like when Blackwood was not there to hold
him in. But, being a woman, she stood up before
him with the double-ended knife of knowledge
set between them, and said that they would both
forget.
Then she went away over the sun-splashed grass,
and Blackwood grinned without amusement. For
he knew that broken silence defies all mending.
• • * •
Blackwood wondered if Steel had been looking
when he decreed a pig-hunt on the next morning.
But without comment the two men went over the
tussock shoulder behind the house, through a
stony gully, and up the flank of a mountain into
the tangle of birch bush.
Steel carried his new breech-loader, and a
sheath-knife. Blackwood had a knife, too, as
well as his old Colt rifle. In a possible argument
it is well to be provided with facts.
It was utter peace in the bush, and the tangle
gave way to a grassed gallery with groins and
pillars that should have been a cathedral. But if
it was, those two had no right there. The dogs
gave tongue in scattered broken scrub at Black-
wood’s elbow.
"T'or’rard,” he shouted ; and as the bush took
him a double-shot split the volley of animal sound,
and he ducked, for the bullets screamed overhead.
“ It’s as well,” he muttered, picking up the pig-
trail where it sank by awkward ways to the gully
again ; “it’s as well to have a clear understand-
ing. But Steel’s explanation was a bit boorish,
an’ he’s a better shot than that generally.”
Then the lust of sport took possession until he
had killed in the gully-neok, and waited for his
spent breath at the foot of the tussock hill that he
and Steel had tramped together. Where it
shelved above him a puff of smoke feathered up
to the bright sky, and a report ran down and
round the rocks, mixed with a'yell that was thin
horror and pain. >
Animal instinct lashed Blackwood up the front-
let of the hill, stumbling among broom and
tawhina. And when a bird’s-eye glance, down to
the far left, flashed sight of the paddocks and the
house that were his and Steel’s, ne called himself
a fool. Then he drew up his length, found sup-
port for one knee, and looked on that which lay
on the bare hill-top under the pitiless sun.
Steel was on his face, with limbs spread limply,
and an ooze of blood on the grey stones about
him. A lean boar stood over the body with his
snout laid to the junction of Steel’s neck with the
shoulder, and Steel’s gun was cast on the ground
with twinkling sunlight over it. Blackwood
jerked up his rifle ; then stayed with his eye to
the sight. And his face was purely evil. He
waited; the stooping sky waited, silent. Down
in the house that was partly his waited a woman
who was only Steel’s.
Then the boar moved, and, as if it had ruled the
trigger, the cold death spat at it.
Blackwood came across, pulled the one body off
the other, and turned the man-body over. A
flask bulged in Steel’s side-pocket. Blackwood
forced some brandy between the shut teeth, then
slipped off his coat, and ripped away the shirt-
sleeve.
His hands and face were very steady. Steel
saw that when he opened his eyes and demanded
more brandy.
He grinned with agony and a joke that was all
his own as Blackwood strapped him. Then he
■poke.
“ You’re a d d fool, Blackwood.- It was
your game if you’d left it alone. Lord, man,
d’you think I don’t know ? ”
“ There is nothing to know,” said Blackwood,
meeting his eyes; ‘ ‘ except that lam going away.”
It was his intent to tell Mrs. Steel so. But
when she came to him through the half-lights that
evening had put under the verandah, he slipped
his pipe into his pocket and stood before her bare-
headed and silent.
“He is asleep,” she said, quietlv; “ the doctor
thinks that he will do very well if he is kept away
from —from stimulants.”
“Yes,” said Blackwood, nnd had no more to
say. He had only lost a world—and that was not
worth talking about.
The moonlight crawled among the scrub of the
distant hills like great white serpents, and a star
sat up on the hill where Blackwood had justified
his possession of an immortal soul. She leaned
against the verandah-post and looked at the star.
“ You have done your duty,” she said ; “ and—
you have shown me how to do mine. Now you
must go away. Out of my life. You will do this
—to save me—pain ? ”
“ Yes,” said Blackwood.
They stood silent, because they knew that the
tide—overfull for movement or sound—would
brim at a touch and flood them.
The stertorous breathing that came out from
the open window behind Blackwood gurgled, and
waked to a cough.
Mrs. Steel moved.
“He will want me,” she said, lightly. “That
was all we had to say, wasn’t it ? Oh, I forgot!
Thank you very much for mending my pony-cart!
Good night! ”
M.L.
G. B. LANCASTER.


WHATIADMIRE
WHEN I WAS A FOOLISH AND VERY SMALL LAD {
T’was MY CUSTOM TO DAILY ASPIRE
TO BE NOBLE AND PIOUS, GREAT-HEARTED AND
2\ND ALL VIRTUES I USED TO ADMIRE . * (GOOD,
BUT GREATER THAN THESE I HAVE GROWN TO REGARD
"ALL THE FATUOUS THINGS THAT 1 SEE ,
) SO that SILLY OLD MEN GROWING VERY LONG BE ARDS
9 ARE more excellent things tome .
THE PAGEANTS OF KINGS, LORD MAYORS & SUChI
MAY PLEASE YOU, BUT MORE I PREFER,(THINGSj
THE KIDDIES Ttt&T PLAY IN THE GUTTER BY DAY
OR RIDE IN A CART WITH A CUR.
AND 1 LOVE THE KINGS IN
THE WIDE DOMAIN ,
WHO REST BY NIGHT AND DAY
pOR THEY -take their ease
LIKE DIOGENES
“AND HAVE NO RENT TO PAY,
“AND THEY HAVE NO WIVES °R RESPECTABLE HOMES :
SO THEY OUGHT TO BE AWFULLY GAY.
AND ) 7 n FOND OF SAILORS WITH TATTOOED WRIST 3
“AND DORIES ON THEIR KNEES ,
BUT MOST 1 PRIZE THE PUGILIST
BECAUSE OF HIS PERFECT EASE ,
A nd BECAUSE HE IS THE ENEMY
OF ALL'MY ENEMIES .
0 AN EXCELLENT SIGHT IS A.
BOTTLE-OH EIGHT
OR A CLERGYMANS DAUGHTER
nanied'babs",
OR THE DRUNKS SO TIGHT THAT DANCE BY NIGHT
AND ARE TOKEN AW IN CABS .
(RUT ONE OF THE THINGS THAT I NOTICE 'WITH PAIN
SS NOT MY DOMESTIC CARES ,
N°R. the fact that the country is panting for rain ,
BUT THE HORRIBLE DEARTH ALL OVER THE EARTH
OF THE ART OF DANCING BEARS)
But the schoolgirl AND BOY ARE A SIGHT FULL OF JOY
7\ND ONE THAT ID GRIEVE TO
HAVE MISSED ,
AND THE YOUTH VERY FLASH
DOING IN ALL HIS CASH
WITH AVERY FLASH
TART TO’ASSIST,
SWACGIES AND
NAVVIES WJTn WHISKER^ 1 /,
z LIKE FIRE
ARE ALL PART OF THE
SCHEME OF THE THINCb
1 ADMIRE . j
TH(fiM\TOJSD OF ALL THESE
doht come
AMISS-
'OCCAS 10NAL-
AHr)FULL OEj
wttus.
n, f
WORN? T1,. can‘t.
A FANTASY.


The Bachelor
A\ One of the papers aska : “Is
it not time that the State dis
JN criminated in taxation * between
the citizen who has given hostages
<1 ,lto fortune and the man who
carries the whole of his family
kj under his hat t ”
Or the turtle dove coo in the'
wilderness at morn.
)! || I X
To cement the V/
social fabric, what
does the bachelor ji 111 l
do, we would like to 'I IS
know 1 Not for him I
does the mussel man
beat hia kcrosene-tln
behind a prancing steed
at noontide.
'HtST OROiKHT"
(RVI|J£|IM prARVf
'PimPlcs tIQOOS/^~
The price of meat disturbs him not,--
only his landlady.
"fwo Qu\<\
hJsm jl/
the L
< Ca Ued lqUen ni a l V!s °* Hoo,
V |jV°H dee i( js«-
he happens to be young,
agreeable, and good-looking—ho has h
pleasant time of it—scot free.
(6)
And if times are bad, all he lias
to do is to pack up his valise and
depart for S’Africa, or elsewhere.?
p(7) \
Now Moses got up\
earlier than this, and 1
declared marriage to
be . obligatory upon
every Israelite over
the age of 20—so why
shouldn’t we 1 ”
(9) \
'from a °f. c,lr gti9 )
G oodoZ y, r l S? e * C ! ud <*all • 4
*MY Word E.}sendotj\
\ Codin' A'onp
Gill*. old
jjlv/" 1 ' Mj» !
On certain fete days they were paraded
- before the populace and exposed to
=|__ general mockery and derision*.
(12) ' ’
After the siege of Veri, Camillus
insisted on the bachelors marrying
the widows of those who had fallen.
This is Jones after the next Boer
war—he has come back, and finds he has,
been assigned to the widow
of Private O’Gormai).
1 04-)
We suppose that in common
justice the boot will be on thy
other leg as well.
Gaoled for her li!
i maiden tax.
/n\ Very soon no bachelor will bo legally
V at large without a Govt, stamp attached-
[H ) Honor to whom honor is due.
A SOURCE OF REVENUE AND SOCIAL REGENERATION.


“Crossing In.”
A Page of Verses
WRITTEN FOR “THE BULLETIN.”
“ nyrm’-EAST by Nord,” the old man told
His lean Norwegian mate,
What time the sun in robes of gold
Went out the Western gate.
i
Stand ready in your places now,
Rough minions as ye be !
The sun is at the Eastern gate,
On watch like you and me !
Go for’ard, leadsman, with your lead,
And let your sight be keen !
See, where the channel winds ahead
’Tis choppy and ’tis green !
We trust the stokehold’s fit to die,
The cajbin’s sins are shriven . . .
A. game of chance ! —and you and I
Might shortly meet in—Heaven.
f
The skipper’s on the bridge, and near
His quartermaster stands,
Now let us hope his glass is clear,
And steady are his hands.
He’s brought her out, and in, and out,
• These’twenty years and more,
Re’s brpught her in and out and in
V And brought her not ashore.
But God, He made bar harbors and
, God only knows their make,
There’s just a hint of stirred-up sand
’ Already in her wake.
The rocks to port loom sharp and high,
. The tide’s outsetting strong ;
And when a ship’s set down to die,
• It does not take her long.
“ Half-speed ” —the buoy’s in line ahead !
• “Slow down ” —the trough’s between !
’Twas “fourteen half ” the leadsman said—
, She’s drawing just—thirteen !
No loving mother holds her babe
More soft, more tenderly,
Than holds his ship, this little man,
To coax her through the sea.
He slews her with a skilful twist
To meet the coming wave,
He dodges with a single spoke
Her well-appointed grave.
He lifts her up—kind little man, —
His ohilci of steel and wood,
He lays her down, so soft and mild,
So gentle and so good.
Between his soul, —like yours and mine,—
, • And all eternity,
Full well he knows there lies just now
, A foot and half of Sea.
You will not please address him then
Sir Passenger, I trow ;
For should'you venture wise remark,
In irons you might go.
He only swears his teeth between
(’Twas “ Fourteen, bare! ” they cried)
The hungry waves in white and green
Are snarling overside
The old Nq\y England died just here—
“ Stand by !’ “ Stand by !”—“ Stand by !
“ She’s on the reef !. .By God, she’s clear—
*, ‘Some o'her day weM die.’
Good little ipan ! His wife and kids
Down Soiith, lie snug abed,
And “ Eighteen feet inside the bar ”
The Dago leadsman said.
Brave little man ! He earns right well
His kiddies’ food and clothes—
For God, He made bar-harbors and
’Tis only God who knows.
N.B.W.
E. J. BRADY .
The Lone Grey Water.
(LAKE OOLAO.)
OUT on the breast of the lone grey water,
Out where the sun rides high,
When the sunbeams gleam on the rippling
wave
As the whispering wind goes by:
Sounds from the reeds of a curlew crying
Under the sultry noon ;
Sounds from the rocks of wild waves flying
Over the grey lagoon.
The white mist lies on the lone grey water,
Silent and soft and still,
Like quiet ghosts of the days gone over,
Raised at the breeze’s will.
To and fro are the shadows drifting
Ove£ the tideless wave,
And tHe sunbeams strike on the fog, that shifting,
A rainbow glory gave.
Dawn breaks over the lone grey water
And stars of the morning pale ;
A million jewels flash out in splendor
Down to the sun-god’s trail.
Night comes down with her wings unfolden
After the reign of day,
And ever the grey light turns to golden,
And the golden light to grey.
There are glories out on the lone grey water—
The sheen of the sun at noon,
The trailing light of the stars at night
And the golden track of the moon.
There are days of sadness and days of mirth
For the trial my heart has taught her,
The season’s change of the changeless earth
Out there on the lone grey water.
DtJNKKLU, VIC.
KATHLEEN WALKER.
Song of the Remnant.
THIS life is a farcical snare, and we,
Out of the tangle as best we may,
Fling each his curse at the Things that Be,
Scoff at the ghoul that is called To-day.
And we laugh at the fates, though to think were
pain,
For we’ve never a tear to shed ;
And the blood of our hearts makes a merry stain
While a drop of it’s left to shed.
We have sounded the depths for the Pearls of
Time,
Hot in our zest for the Greater Good —
Dived till we’re damned, just to bring up slime,
Bartered our youth for a handful of mud.
And now at the end of our day we stand
A ragged and reckless rout ;
And Death and the Devil are close at hand,
Coming to sweep us out.
There’s a man who has cherished a high intent,
Aching to lessen his fellow’s woes ;
But his pulses flicker, his time is spent,
Poor battered devil—and out he goes !
Oh ! the host of us turned from the wine and fruit
To the ashes that lie between !
There’s the man who is Married and Done (poor
brute !)
And the woman who Might Have Been !
And never a soul of us won right through—
Through with Delight to the goal he sought.
Nothing an inch from the Best would do . . .
God ! but our failure is dearly bought !
Some are young yet, but the Deities won’t
Help such a pitiful lot:
There’s the Man who could Do if he Dared (but he
don’t),
And the Girl who Would Rather Not.
This life is a farce at the best, and so
Out of the tangle we’ll squirm content.
Millions ahead of us !—gladly we’ll go
Forth from this murk where our spirits are pent.
Here at the end of the day we stand,
A thoughtful and thankful rout:
Dear Death with his angels is close at hand,
Coming to help us out!
TAS.
FRANK MORTON.
“When the Doctor will not Come.”
IN the dark I see him ride,
Down the track two arms-lengths wide,
Loping sadly, loping slowly thro’ the con-
stant-falling rain.
Branches strike the hard grey face,
Staring fixedly at space—
Riding grimly from the township to the rough
bush-home again!
Riding back ! ah, riding back !
Thro’ the tree-trunks wet and black ;
Riding home without the doctor, at the slip-rails
standing dumb.
P’raps there’s Hell wherein hearts fry,
But there’s Torment in the sigh
Of the horseman riding homeward when the
Doctor will not Come !
Said he’d go for ten notes down,
Said he would not leave the town
’Less the cash was in his pocket, ’less the pay was
in advance.
Said the night was too damn bad,
In his gown and slippers clad—
Said he’d had enough of cases where the pay was
left to chance.
Said it business-like and cold,
Stipulating for his gold,
Ere he’d stir to save an empress he would have
his total sum !
Maybe Cains for ever fry,
But there’s Murder in the eye
Of the man who leaves the township when the
Doctor will not Come !
Riding back to Her again,
Passing sadly thro’ the rain,
Horse dead-beat and stumbling slowly down the
inky forest-way.
Riding home ! ah, riding home !
Like a living metronome
Swing the horse and heart together thro’ the
branches dark and grey !
Riding leaden-limbed and drear,
Filled with horror’s misty fear
Lest he find her cold and painless—lest he find
her stark and numb !
Maybe God Himself is dead.
Or He’d lift his ancient head,
And He’d maybe show compassion when the
Doctor will not Come !
But He sits upon His throne
Like a figure carved in stone,
While His work is calling, calling, in the bush-
land far below !
But He sits there, stark and still,
And His heart-chords never thrill,
Or He’d leave his barrack Heaven, and He’d take
His rusty hoe !
He would get to work again,
Pacing thro’ the pouring rain
To the sick-beds in the gum-lands where the
hearts in torment drum,
Oh, He’d make a good old job
Of straightening up His globe
If the. Lord looked in and tended when the
Doctor will not Come !
vi
GRANT HERVEY.
“Greater Love Hath No Man..."
tale of two that were twain in one,
The saga of soul and soul
Where the wan plains travail beneath
the sun—
Of fever and famine dole,
Of the death that passed
Into life at last
On the path of a love heart-whole.
One to win through and one to pass
Through grief to the great Far-Out—
“ Ah, the fence rail-deep in the meadow-grass ! ”
And the sick man turned about,
And groaned and slept
In the blast that swept
From the quartz-ribbed plain without.
For this have ye wrought through pain and rack ?
Hard hands to the plough-haft set,
Swift hearts that have followed the hoof-stamped
track,
Rough brows with the toil-dew wet ?
For the dam choked high
Where the cattle die :
Drouth-harvest for blood-sown sweat!
The fierce day shot from the ragged ridge
At the verge of the blistered world,
And the bare plain-ribs cracked edge from edge,
And the white-hot dust-wreaths curled
By the channel-mud
Where the winter flood
And the foam of the spring had swirled.
One to win through, and one to die —
Ah, horror of unslaked thirst!
It is hard to read, while the Fear stands by.
The riddle of best or worst :
And the watcher cri**?
At the lintel side,
And beat at the thought accursed.
A pace to the beam where the bag was set,
And he caught at the coolness, laid
His burning hands to the canvas wet,
And harked to a word half stayed,
While the sick man turned
Where the red west burned,
And smothered a curse, and prayed.
Then he set the flask by the thin brown hand
As one with a wearied child —
And the stealthy dusk stole down the land
Till the gloom of the gaunt grey wild
Touched the watcher prone
On the doorway-stone—
And the sick man woke and smiled.
The shades crept down and a wet wind swept
From the velvet-footed dark,
The whispered sweetness of raindrops wept
And lisped on the roofing bark,
And played a space
On a sky-set face,
Where the dead lay straight and stark.
’Twas the watcher lay ; but his free soul spoke
Through the soul of the storm, and there
The sick man saw as the cloud-wrack broke
That his face was passing fair ;
And the wind that cried
By the lintel-side
Stirred loose in a dead man’s hair.
vio.
JAMES A. ALLAN .
AVON RIVER.
Avon River,
Sing a song to us !
Bid your shoals and your sand-bars bring
Love’s brave laughter and lays along to us.
Peace like this is a passing thing—
Night sends soon to us
Winds a-shiver—
Sing a tune to us,
Avon River !
Avon River,
Laugh and fling to us
All the wealth of your golden hours ;
Bid the birds in the tall trees sing to us ;
Let us gather your snowy flowers.
Night will come to us
And deliver
Sorrow’s sum to us,
Avon River.
Avon River,
Tell a tale to us
As you pause in your pools of glass ;
Bid the nymphs in your lilies hail to us;
Tell the meadows two lovers pass.
Night holds tears for us—
Lips a-quiver—
Lonely years for us,
Avon River.
Avon River,
Give your strength to us ;
Love is sweet as your sunny stream.
Death and sorrow will come at length to us :
Let us lie on your breast and dream
Life brings gifts to us—
Tardy giver—
Laughter drifts to us,
Avon River.
Avon River,
Throw your wealth to us—
Wealth of beauty and sunlight brave.
Sad thoughts come in the night by stealth to us
Like a shark in a jewelled wave.
Night will bring to us
Winds a-shiver.
Sing, oh ! sing to us,
Avon River.
M.L.
WILL LAWSON.
The Wander-Light.
AND they heard the tent-poles clatter,
And the fly in twain was torn
’Tis the soiled rag of a tatter
Of the tent where I was born.
And what matters it, I wonder ?
Brick or stone or calico—
Or a bush you were born under,
When it happened long ago ?
And my beds were camp beds and tramp beds and
damp beds,
And my beds were dry beds on drought-stricken
ground,
Hard beds and soft beds, and wide beds and
narrow—
For my beds were strange the wide world round.
And the old hag seemed to ponder
(’Twas my mother told me so),
And she said that I would wander
Where but few would think to go.
“ He will fly the haunts of tailors,
He will cross the ocean wide,
For his fathers, they were sailors,
All on his good father’s side.”
Behind me, before me, oh ! my roads are stormy—
The thunder of skies and the sea's sullen sound,
The coaster or liner, the English or foreign,
The state-room or steerage the wide world round.
And the old hag she seemed troubled
As she bent above the bed,
' He will dream things and he’ll see things
To come true when he is dead.
He will see things all too plainly,
And his fellows will deride,
For his mothers they were gypsies
All on his good mother’s side.”
And my dreams are strange dreams, are day
dreams, are grey dreams,
And my dreams are wild dreams, and old dreams
and new ;
They haunt me and daunt me with fears of the
morrow— >
My brothers they doubt me—but my dreams come
t rue.
And so I was born of fathers
From where ice-bound harbors are—
Men whose strong limbs never rested
And whose blue eyes saw afar,
Till, for gold, one left the ocean,
Seeking over plain and hill;
And so I was born of mothers
Whose deep minds were never still.
I rest not, ’tis best not, the world is a wide one—
And, caged for an hour, I pace to and fro ;
I see things and dree things and plan while I’m
sleeping,
I wander for ever and dream as I go.
I have stood by Table Mountain,
On the Lion at Capetown,
And I watched the sunset fading
From the roads that I marked down ;
And I looked out with my brothers
From the heights behind Bombay,
Gazing north and west and eastward,
Over roads I’ll tread some day.
For my ways are strange ways and new ways and
old ways, . . ,
And deep ways and steep ways and high ways
and low;
I’m at home and at ease on a track that l know
not,
And restless and lost on a road that 1 know.
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.
The Girl of the Night.
SHE is no myth of the moon-mist cold,
Nor a fairy shape we cannot grasp ;
Something is there for the hand to clasp,
Something there for the arms to hold.
She is the girl of the gleaming night,
When the moonbeams lie on the long white road,
When the sky is clear and the stars.are bright.
When the eyes are gay and the spirits light,
And the heart lays down its load ;
And her footsteps coming to meet my own
Sound to my ear like a thousand songs
Sung by the love birds of long ago,
When the world was free from its weight of woe,
And mankind knew no wrongs.
Where is there music half so sweet
As the sound of her coming feet ?
Over the crest of the moon-lit ridge,
Down the hill to the old creek bridge;
Where is there joy as when we meet ? _
Ever were stars than her eyes more bright,
As close to mine in the dusk they glowed ?
She is the girl of the gleaming night,
I am her slave on the long white road.
Seek who will in the hunter’s chase
Half the rapture that comes to me,
When I gaze on her upturned face,
When the light of her eyes I see.
Joy may lurk in the waltz’s whirl,
Fierce enchantment the game may bold ;
Yet the heart of my sweet-lipped girl
Stands to me for more than gold.
Raise who will the goblet high,
Filled from the fruit of Southern vine,
One kind glance from that sparkling eye
Thrills me more than the richest wine.
When from the dim sky fades the light
Others may seek their quiet abode ;
But for the girl of the gleaming night
I will wait on the long white road.
* * * *
Life is short and the hours flit past;
Joy must ever give place to pain ;
After the sunshine must come rain ;
Pleasure is all too brief to last.
When the tick of the solemn clock
Falls unheard on my deafened ear,
When the cry of the morning cock
Wakes me not with trumpet clear,
Will the loss be worth the gain ?
Will the pleasure surpass the pain ?
Dreams I never can read aright !
Why should I future fate forebode
While the girl of the gleaming night
Waits for me on the long white road !
M.L.
ANTHONY WEBB.


By Rail and Semaphore.
THE WATERS OF BEAUTY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
THE SPIN OF THE COIN, OR HOW WILL HE LAND?
DUX (of the two-up school, eagerly): “Half-a-quid on heads!"
MR. REDMAN, station-master at Popa-
tunoa, was a man with a “liver,” which
lie mistook for artistic instinct. Popa-
tunoa was a bad station in those days, for,
unless the clerks wore button-holes of whatever
blossoms wore in season, and had their pants
cut according to the latest fashion, Redman
was never satisfied with their work. His own
taste in dress ran to ties which were large and a
mixture of red, black and yellow. He was a great
man to see tliat' the clerks did their work, and as
he only kept the general cash-book himself, he
had plenty of time to see that they did not only
their own work, but his also. Still, with all his
faults, Redman knew his work. He was a railway
man—had been from his youth upwards, and was
not like unto jnost.of the station-masters in those
days, who, when they were not drunkards, were
embezzlers. Redman never embezzled —at least,
no one had ever found him doing it.
He had been years at Popatunoa, and had had
almost as many clerks, as wind-storms. But the
clerks were so delighted to get away from
Popatunoa that they didn’t mind being reported
as useless, so long as they didn’t get the sack.
They would go away under a cloud, but it soon
dissipated. Redman was getting a name in the
Traffic Office as a man with a liking for fresh faces,
and being shifted from Popatunoa as “ not satis-
factory ” ceased to carry any lasting significance.
Popatunoa was situated where met five passes,
which were like tunnels with the tops taken off,
and through all of them the wind blew from
different directions simultaneously. And it al-
ways rained straight down on top of all the winds,
while the snow invariably came from the south at
the same time, and the hail swished down from
the north-eastern hills.
When the Labor-Saving Jones dashed into the
office from the express, Mr. Redman looked at him
critically and felt certain that Jones would not do
as sub. at Popatunoa. No man with such dis-
gracefully baggy pants could be expected to run a
station successfully. Also, he wore absolutely
square-pointed boots when all the rest of the coun-
try was going around in gun-boat toes. Further-
more Jones’s face was an archipelago of pimples
depending on a continental blotch that disap-
peared into his hair. The sight of him gave Red-
man an attack of dyspepsia—at least, so Redman
told Hiram Giddons, the man who ran the refresh-
ment-rooms.
* * * »
Next day the Labor-Saver turned up in a more
disreputable suit than ever. Redman went straight
to the point and told Jones he must dress
differently from that. Jones replied that that
identical suit was good enough for the Traffic
Office in Romahapa, and it was good enough for
Popatunoa; and he would wear it till it suited
him to get another. He was perfectly willing, if
Mr. Redman liked, to refer it to the Old Man.
Mr. Redman rather thought he wouldn’t worry
the Old Man about it. Jones snorted. The S.M.
realised that Jones rather liked rows.
He set himself to watch for shortcomings in
Jones’s work; but he had no hope. The man
knew his work thoroughly, and was chockful of
energy. He was erratic also, and brilliant to
boot ; and when there was absolutely nothing else
to do he would open up an official correspondence
Wl th the station-master on the subject of subsidiary
cash-books, and send in suggestions, to be for-
warded to the manager, of alterations in the time-
table, whereby the convenience of the district
would be better served. Some of these suggestions
were acted upon, and Redman was instructed by
the manager to give Jones every latitude and en-
couragement in that direction. The S.M. ground
lus teeth, and gave up Jones as a hopeless case.
Jones sent to Romahapa tor several sets of
boxing gloves, and taught the staff to use its hands
for offence and defence. At first Redman depre-
cated the practice, but he changed his mind when
the burly Jones came into the office one morning
and attacked and finished off two wild men from
out-back who were threatening to knock corners
off him (Redman). Redman was particularly fond
of his skin, and he rather took to Jones after that.
There was an awful lot of assault and battery in
Maoriland in those days. The men fought for the
fun of it; the boys fought because they couldn’t
help it; and the dogs fought for reasons never
properly explained.
Redman found this new and unexpected friend-
ship much to his advantage. The Labor-Saver
got to work on his house. He fitted up a hot
water service with oil-drums and some spare
piping from the engine-shed. He made an in-
genious connection between the coal-cupboard and
the stove, so that Mrs. Redman always had a
supply of coal waiting right at the stove without
having to carry it. He utilised a water-pipe, a
sheet of zinc and the line battery to make an
electric doormat, so that when cats, which Mrs.
Redman hated, came walking in at the door they
stood on two sheets of zinc, completed a circuit,
and, receiving an electric shock, back-somer-
saulted and never came again. It also kept Mrs.
Brannigan’s kids, who lived next door, out of
Mrs. Redman’s pantry.
A multitude of other small contrivances
which he fitted up in Redman’s house
pleased the S.M. very much, for they not
only made the home more comfortable but kept
Jones from writing on the subject of subsidiary
cash-books, or the advantage of opening deposit
accounts, and sending in suggestions for time-
table alterations.
In his gratitude he offered to tell Jones how to
get rid of the pimples, and Jones, who would have
been a good-looking man but for his face, was
deeply grateful. ...
“There’s a mineral spring down the Wairiri
Branch, about four miles from the Burning Plains.
I’ll write to the ganger of the length and ask him
to fill and return a demijohn, if you send one
“ YES, MUM!”
MRS. JONES : “ Mary, I don't wish you to call me Mrs. Jones, especially before my visitors.
Mary (confidentially): “ ’Ow! I didn't know—I thought all the time you was married to master!
down. Old Mac, at the Grey, will lend you one.
All you’ve got to do is to drink a pint of it three
times a dav, and in a week you’ll shed your skin,
and underneath will be a new one, pink and clear
as a new-born kid’s.”
Jones had only seen one newly born kid, and,
if his memory served him rightly, the prospect
was not too alluring.
“ The worst of this water, continued Kedman,
“is that it smells something awful. It’s nice to
drink, but you’ve got to stop your nose while you
do so once you’ve swallowed it you lose all sense
of the unpleasant odor. Down at Wairiri the
inhabitants swear by it, and have splendid com-
plexions. The girls all make good matches and
they’ve christened that spring by some Maori
word which signifies ‘ the Waters of Beauty ! ’ ”
Jones told Morton, the number-snatcher (the
junior clerk who takes the numbers of waggons
and carriages arriving at and leaving the station),
and Morton asked if he might send a demijohn
too. Redman agreed, and Morton told Walton in
the permanent - way office. Walton streaked
across to Mac’s, and tried to borrow a demijohn
likewise.
Mac used language at this run on his demi-
johns, but gave them.
The demijohns went north by No. 4 next morn-
ing ; and as the train was moving out Redman
stepped on the footboard of the van, and called
out to Rawson, the guard, “ Look out, Tom, that
the bung doesn’t blow out of any of those demi-
johns coming back; if it does, you’ll wish you
were dead.”
Rawson’s reply wouldn’t look nice in print.
When No. 4 North came back at night it was as
No. 31 South, due at Popatunoa at 6.45 p.m. It
was the social event of the day. At that time the
winds were usually taking a well-deserved rest,
and the top of Popatunoa Hill would be bathed
in opalescent glory, while great bars of incandes-
cent gold gleamed fitfully through the clouds that
were always banked along the crests of the Kuri-
wao Hills. The whole population would turn out
and throng down on the platform to see No. 31
come in.
She came puffing up the incline, and as her
funnel appeared in the cutting Walton came run-
ning across from the hotel, where he boarded, to
commence getting his complexion beautified at
the very earliest possible moment.
She drew up at the platform, and Walton, who
had swung himself on board at the crossing, was
already hunting for his demijohn.
“ Which is mine, Tom ? ” he asked, impatiently.
“Blowed if I know ; they’re all the same,” Baid
Tom, sorting out his waybills.
Walton.found the three demijohns, and, recog-
nising his own by the chip out of the nozzle, drew
the cork.
Next moment the guard, the brakesman, and
Walton came tumbling out of the van, holding
their noses. Then the people standing quietly on
the platform looked suddenly at one another,
sneezed, and left simultaneously without the
slightest argument. It was the most unanimous
public movement that had ever taken place at
Popatunoa.
A few seconds later, Redman was aware
something had happened. “Oh, Lord!’’ he
yelled ; “one of those blithering idiots has opened
that confounded mineral water. Phew ! ”
And he left the Labor-Saver to take charge of
the station.
Jones got the bung back into its place some-
how, and about 10.15 he surreptitiously took his
own demijohn to his diggings at the Grey Hotel.
Then he saturated a handkerchief with eau-de-
Cologne, fastened it over his nose, held a glass
ready, and carefully drew out the bung. The
water was highly effervescent, and it flew out.
splashing all over the floor of the little room,
Jones hastily drank about a quart, and, after
replacing the bung, started to mop up the water
on the floor in a frantic manner with an old and
disused pair of pants.
It was awful. The eau-de-Cologne bottle was
empty, and Jones mopped away with desperate
energy. Then he rushed to the open window,
and threw the pants as far as he could into the
street.
Driver Dunbar, of No. 4 North, was discussing
the British-Israelite theory with Jook Sinclair,
the driver of No. 1 South, just below the balcony.
The pants fell on Sinclairiikethe wrath of Heaven,
and the old man shrieked as he tore them from
his neck. Then, after spitting profusely and
getting himself carefully examined, he turned to
Dunbar.
“ Ma friend,” he said, earnestly, “ A’ll no dis-
pute longer wi’ ye. A dinna ken what yon was
that struck me, but I recognise the finger o’ God
in it; nae doot it was a warnin’ no tae question
the accuracy o’ your deductions frae the Wor-rd 1”
Just about this timo the landlord and all the
permanent and casual boarders arrived at Jones’s
door, armed with one gun and a number of
bludgeons.
Jones refused to open the door.
They kicked it in. Jones assured them that
the mineral water was the healthiest they could
got on earth. They said they preferred leprosy.
He offered to draw the bung and give them
some to drink, to prove how pleasant it was to
the taste. They threatened to slay him if lie laid
a finger on the bung.
He tried to make anothor proposal to them, but
they howled at him, and made such terrible threats
that Jones, without anothor word, picked up his
demijohn and carried it downstairs. Mac fol-
lowed him with the loaded gun, and threatened to
shoot him dead if he fell with tho thing and broko
it in his house.
Jones took it across to the goods-shed and loft
it there. He camped in tho drawing-room that
night, with the rest of the lionrdors from tho wing
in which his room was situated.
• * • »
“Well, I’m sorry to lose you, old man ! ” said
Redman, some months later, to tho Labor-Saver,
as the No. 4 North was about to start; “ but
you’re thrown away in a hole like this. Romahapa’s
the place for you. Good-bye! ’’
Just as the train was starting, Jimmy, the
goods porter, sprinted across from the shed with
something in Ins arms, which ho deposited on the
footboard of the guard’s van. He climbed aboard
with it, passed it inside, and remarked : “I think
this is yours, Mr. Jones.”
Jones gave a snort of disgust.
“Thanks, awfully, Jimmy ; if this train wasn’t
moving I’d pour the contents of that jar over
you.”
Jimmy dropped off with a chuckle.
When the Labor-Saver got to Romahapa he
was, much to his disgust, informed by the traffio
clerk that he was to go to the booking-office,
which was a department he loathed. All that
day he was in a snocking temper. He treated tho
public to some brutally cynical remarks; and
when one fussy little man, with his hat tilted
rakishly over his eye, asked for three distinot
tickets in as many seconds, Mr. Jones remarked
pleasantly that it would be a good idea if the
fussy little man carried a chimpanzee round with
him to make up his mind for him.
There was a brilliant interchange of compli-
ments, and the little man nearly lost his train,
after all.
That afternoon the Old Man came into the
booking-office with a long screed from Codd,
M.H.R., asking him to deal with the “booking-
clerk with the long moustache, bent nose and
complexion like a burnt seed-cake.”
“That’s you, right enough, Jones,” said the
Old Man. “I do wish you’d learn to keep that
tongue of yours between your teeth. You always
seem to tell the truth to the wrong people, and
that’s a greater crime than telling lies all the
year round. I’ll have to fine you ten bob; we
must placate Codd ; the General Manager’s par-
ticularly emphatic about it. Do be careful! ”
Then he went off, and Jones vowed vengeance.
Codd was holding an election meeting that
night in the Anniversary Hall.
I’ll break it up ! ” said Jones.
“You won’t,” said Roberts, the head booking-
clerk. “You can’t beat Codd. He’s a regular
fighter. He held a meeting at the Northern
Drill Shed last Tuesday night. He’s advocating
a reduction of our screws, and 200 of us tried to
break up the meeting, tried our hardest with
cats, eggs, and half a ton of flour; and he beat us
t,R “ Well, he won’t beat me bad, anyhow ! ” said
Jones with such confidence that Roberts took new
heart, and by four that afternoon 100 railway
men had ordered a supply of eggs and “other
things ” from the Riverbend Freezing Works.
• • • •
Codd stalked out on to the empty platform. He
was, as regards a large section of the community,
the ’ worst-hated and most egged politician in
Maoriland. He had no chairman, and his com-
mittee said it would sit in the body of the hall,
thank you. Codd had come prepared for a rough
reception. He wore an oilskin and a sou’-wester
hat, which meant that he expected eggs and
didn’t care if he got them. He arranged the neck
of the oilskin, threw his head back and yelled :
“Ladies and gentlemen—fellow-citizens’’ —
The light was shut out by the rain of flying
eggs and “other things” obtained from the
freezing-works. When the gaslight glimmered
faintly through the perfume once more, Codd
stood in a bent position, tearing some horrible
thing from rounn his neck. He threw the foul
object back into the audience, and the custard
streamed off his sleeves, and the black oilskin had
turned to a lurid yellow.
For half-an-hour he stood there and defied
them. They responded to his defiance, but slowly
the supply of ammunition gave out; and Codd
was still there. He had won, and his bell-like
voice rang through the great hall.
Suddenly two young men in the northern gal-
lery, right over Codd, stood up and poured out the
contents of a demijohn. Beautiful, sparkling
water splashed down over Codd and the men in
the front seats—most of them engine-drivers.
Those front men arose and clawed the air. Codd
stopped short in his speech, and a look of horror
came over his face. He clapped the tail of the oil-
skin, dripping with the yolks of innumerable eggs,
over his nose, and fled from the platform and the
building.
In the body of the hall was wild confusion.
The engine-drivers over whom the water had
fallen were trying to walk over the heads of the
rest of the audience, who fled before them as
though they were the plague or sudden death.
As soon as they got outside Roberts turned to
Jones: “ Great Caesar’s ghost! and you say you
drank a quart of it! ” , ,
It was the Water of Beauty that had fallen on
Codd.
C. A. JEFFRIES.


The Good Old Name of
Gentleman,
[FOR THE BULLETIN ]
BEING- Christmas week, the musterers,
rabbiters, and rouseabouts had come in
to the station to celebrate. They sat
on the tussock hill in the warm nights, and
made fallen constellations of pipe-dottles to defy
the stars in Heaven. Also, they talked.
Jimmy came up from the whare, where he had
been sleeping-off a visit to the township, and
made the fifth star in a red Southern Cross. A
letter in his pocket would trouble him, when his
sodden brain cleared. Meanwhile, the talk
stumbled to its appointed end.
The cook, who was strictly “Doughboy ” to his
associates, had ideas. He read the Young Ladies’
Jouenal surreptitiously* The talk had drifted
to swells; and, with a fervour defying all incre-
dulity, he had sighed, “My ! but I’d giv’ a lump
ter see a live swell —a dook, or any bloke wi’ a
title to ’im.”
Then a strange thing happened. Jimmy sat
up— “ See him, then ! ” he said.
Doughboy glared round the earth.
“ Wotyirmean ? ”
“I’m a lord,” explained Jimmy dully.
“Drunk as a lord,” amended Redith ; and the
pipe-dottles jibbered and shook in noisy agree-
ment/
Jimmy whimpered, and rubbed his bleared
eyes because. the low moon looked into them
purely. (
“I am a lord—the letter said so. George died
—old George—don’t laugh "
“Where’s the letter, you blatherskite?”
The bottom dropped out of unbelief when
Jimmy produced it, and went to sleep while the
company read, open-eyed and open-mouthed.
M'Kerrow brought a lantern from the whare, and
at the ending he stirred Jimmy up with his foot.
“ Git up, Cecil Lord Archer ! Blow me, if your
name aint tacked together as rum as your clothes.
Git up, an’ let’s see what a real lord looks like.
By gum ! it ain’t pertic’ler pretty.”
Colonial acceptance of blue blood in the abstract
makes for irreverence,.
, Black bodies bulked in the moonlight, with
white faces atop. Jimmy, came to his feet in
shapeless desire to uphold his dead rights.
“ I looked like a gen’l’man once,” he mumbled,
then smiled at the burst of coarse laughter, which
had been applause when he spoke before his
fellows in the old days.
“Are yer ‘Me Lord’ already?” asked Dough-
boy, breathlessly, £'*
Jimmy shuffled,-> blinked, finally arrived at
a decision, and said “ Yes.”
“ It vas ein peautiful ding to pe und gentle-
man,” said Pete solemnly. “Dey vas vantin’
dou in der House of Lorts. Yes ! He vas joost
mosht as goot lort as don, Doughpoy. Yes.”
“Will yer go ter Hingland?” Doughboy was
p ( urple with reverence and envy.
THE TIRED AUSTRALIAN.
MOTHER : “ Come, come; what's all this noise
about? ’
GEORGIE: “ Dick's been whacking me coz I
wouldn't say his prayers”
“No,"’ cried Jimmy. “I—l won’t—l can’t!
I—you mustn’t say I’m to go home. They don’t
want me—they ”
He was shaking in the grip of something
mightier than drink—mayhap memory of his
manhood.
“Don’t fret, yer silly old howl. They won’t
want yer—it’s only, the perlice as does that.—Stow
it, Doughboy. I ain’t goin ter ‘Me Lord ’ him.
“I don’t want to be a lord. I don’t—want—to
go home.” Jimmy wept, and Doughboy under-
stood that Fortune tickets her clay figures very
carelessly. He would give his soul for that which
Jimmy abhorred.
“Sell yer bloomin’ title then,” scoffed Law-
rence.
“ Can ’e?” yelled Doughboy.
“ A feller can sell anythin’ he’s got—an’ lots he
am t got, if he’s smart enough,” said Redith posi-
tively.
“Can yer sell it?” demanded Doughboy
quivering on his feet.
Jimmy gazed vaguely, cast back through
Heaven knows what grime to a clear page of
Debrett, and began—“ William, first Lord Archer,
bought the .letters - patent carrying the title
of .
“There you are !” said Redith. “Here’s the
letter-patent with the title in it. Buy it of him
Doughboy.” ’
“I mean ter —if it suits me figger,” said Dough-
boy, swelling.
“Figger! Yer’ve got figger enough for a
Hemperor. Go in an’ win, Doughboy. Yer
can’t back out now, old cock.”
Doughboy’s head reeled at his own daring,
“’Ow little’ll yer take, Jimmy?”
Lre, that ain’t the way.” M'Kerrow got up.
We don t ’ave these things in the market every
day. If yer goin’ ter be a lord, yer’ll ’ave ter pay
for it. Hi, rouse up there, Jimmy Lord Wotsis-
name. Are yer goin’ ter sell yer title ter Dough-
boy ?”
Redith moved round until the lord-who was and
the lord-who-would-be faced each other. The fat
cook glistened with eagerness. The Wreck smiled.
“ Beer,” he murmured, and there was a batter-
ing of hard hands and applause from the ring.
“Yer a jolly old card,”
said M'Kerrow approv-
ingly. “ ’E’ll sell it ter
yer for its worth in beers,
Doughboy. Plank down
yer price.”
“Five bob,” said Dough-
boy.
The men howled. Having
given their patronage to
this thing, it was not to be
ridiculed.
“We ain’t buyin’ your
title to be called cook.
This is the title of a—a
true-born aristocrat.”
The true-born aristocrat
chuckled feebly, and sat on
the ground. “ That’s all
ri’,” he said.
“Fivequid,”said M'Ker-
row, “ and if I was wantin’
the thing meself—which
I ain’t ” (this hastily, for
M'Kerrow belonged to the
labor-union) —“I’d call it
dirt-cheap, too. Yer’ll git
a real blow-out every day,
Doughboy. An’ a car’age
ter ride in, An’ yer’ll talk
ter dooks an’ hearls.”
Doughboy thrust out a
puddy hand. “ G-give
us the p-paper,” he stut-
tered.
But M'Kerrow swept
them down to the whare,
lighted guttering candles,
and added a laborious line
at the letter-end, which
set forth unequivocally
that Cecil Lord Archer sold
his name right to Henry
Wilks Green for £5 cash.
Jimmy was shaken into
a degree of understanding
that enabled him to affix
an illegible signature and
pocket the money. Then
he sat, pleased with all the
world, and vaguely com-
prehending that he was
safe from the Past, while
M'Kerrow gave the paper
into the hands of the per-
spiring Doughboy. “ There
y’are, Sissel Lord Archer
—wot does it feel like,
eh?”
Doughboy turned round,
laid aside his apron, and
simpered idiotically. “I—l ain’t ’ardly got
used to it yet. I—yer might just call me that
again, M'Kerrow.”
He strutted in the circle of light, with wild joys
knocking at his brain ; and the crowd of grinning
faces made his court.
“ You’re plucky,” said Lawrence. “ Afore I’d
go among them big-wigs, an’have to wear a coat
to meals, an’ p’raps a collar ”
'“ I shall wear a corownit.” The intoxication
was mounting in Doughboy, and his bald head
shone. “ Hn’ a sword at me side ”
“’Stead of a meat-chopper. Crikey, Dough-
boy!”
“Stop it off,” said
the new lord, sternly.
“I’m Sissel, Lord
‘ ‘ Sissel ain’t much
of a name. Yer’ll
’ve yer nobby pals
callin’ yer ‘Sis,’ like
a gal.”
But the word stung
him who sat in the
shadow to his feet.
“I you. Not
that! I didn’t give
you all of it ? You
can’t be Sis. That’s
my—my own ”
There was silence
for one great minute.
Then .Timmy sat
down and wept for-
lornly, until Pete
pushed him into a
corner and threw a
sack over him.
“You vas mosht
more funny dan
Doughboy. Put it is peautiful to pe ein gentle-
man—vonce. Shleep veil, mine friendt, or you
vill not pe fit for de peer in de morning. ”
Doughboy went to bed glowing, exhilarant; his
joy brought him out on the floor many times to
bow to his moon-flung shadow, and murmur
“ Sessel, Lord Archer,” until Redith awoke, and
threatened to “clump him wi’ a boot.”
He was clumped when he refused to cook
breakfast, and at mid-day he had an explanatory
interview with “the boss.”
Doughboy returned from it, creeping along the
hedges, and seeking his fellows with intent to
kill.
And Cecil Lord Archer sat on the bar-room
floor in the township, beating happy, irresponsible
time with a whisky-bottle, and singing to the
tune of “ Two Little Girls in Blue ”
“ I am the master of my fate,
And the captain of my soul.”
M.L.
L.
Sankey’s Groper.
[FOR THE BULLETIN ]
SANKEY was a man of many occupations,
but of one recreation only. No matter
how the week was spent, whether it
was rabbits, bottles, bananas, clothes-props,
pineapples, or potatoes with which he traversed
the outer suburbs, Sankey’s week end had
one invariable purpose. Even in the hardest
of times, when Sankey betook himself into
the tattered scrub and laboriously cut ragged
loads of absolutely unburnable ti-tree to work
off on unsuspecting housewives in those decep-
tive half-hours between sunset and dark, he
never lost his single-mindedness as regards his
Saturday and Sunday.
Sankey was a fishing enthusiast, and he would
allow no trace of the sordidness of his ordinary
every-day life to taint the sanctity of his hobby.
It is still told how Ginger Thompson, out of the
depths of his regard for Sankey, once made him
an offer of half a cart-load of stale mullet for
almost nothing—a marvellous opportunity for the
making of many shillings, and Sankey put him
THE CELESTLAL EMPORIUM.
CELESTIAL COUNTERJUMPER : “ We are so sorry, but, owing to an
unusual demand lately, we have run out of 28st. flights;
however, we’ll fix you up in a day or two."
gently but decidedly aside, remarking that he
considered it regular dashed bloomin’ sacrilege to
hawk fish.
There must have been a gleam of poetry some-
where in the depths of Sankey’s soul—obscured by
incrustations of the commonplace, and wrapped
about with rabbit-skins and the odor of bananas
perhaps, but veritable poetry all the same. He
always fished from the rocks, and the golds and
greens of the waving weed as the sun played on it
through the cool grey-green water, and the filmy
laces which the incoming waves laid softly over
the flat rock on which he stood, must have thrilled
some fibre in the heart of his very ordinary-
looking body. Anyway, he would have no boat-
fishing.
“ Yah ! Put hooks on yer line till it looks like a
dashed porkypine, and then jag salmon, yank ’em
mby the bloomin’ tails. Pishin’! ’Struth, what
do you think ? Sport! Why you might as well
run a slaughter-’ouse, as far as sport goes. Give
me a good pool, and one ’ook, and
a nice ’andy-sized crab, and
rookies, and groper ”
I interrupted, Sankey
graced his utterances
with a lurid versa-
tility which ren-
dered them pic-
turesque, if not
quite fit for re-
production ; but
I had heard
about thatgrop-
er before. It
had its dwell-
ing-place in a
particularly
deep hole just
round from
the “ Lady’s
Boot” at
Bondi. Its
size varied ac-
cording to the
degree of San-
key’s enthusiasm,
the audience, and
the amount of
beer which had
been consumed
during the
earlier stages of
the conversation,
so that I could only
gather that it was
something between a
particularly large shark and
a whale of fair dimensions.
It was only maligned in
Sankey’s absence, for he took
his groper very seriously, and when present would
allow no imputations to be cast upon it. Accord-
ing to him it had broken his heaviest tackle on
more than one occasion, and he had once had it
near enough to the surface to form some opinion
as to its size. But his friends were incredulous.
There had been a vague doubt about Sankey’s
sanity ever since the stale-mullet episode.
* * * *
It was Anniversary Day, and Sankey had made
preparations for a campaign against the groper.
It was only on whole holidays that the groper was
attacked. Other occasions were unworthy of so
noble a fish. Sankey set off amid the usual fire of
chaff which greeted him at such times, his sugar-
bag slung over his shoulder and a light of conquest
in his eye. As he turned the corner of the lane,
he stopped for a minute and gesticulated with the
bag. We listened for the words which came down
the wind—“l’ll catch that blanky fish to-day.”
Then Sankey swung round the corner out of
sight.
* • * *
Nine o’clock, and Sankey had not returned !
The push wondered casually, for Sankey, though
he never missed the hour when dusk was turning
to darkness—the wonderful hour when great
things are in the air and the big fish bite—was
generally back to the corner by eight or half-past.
It was not till Liz Sanderson came along that the
subject was discussed openly. Liz (or ‘‘‘Spot”)
Sanderson (a somewhat conspicuous mole by her
left eye being responsible for the name) claimed
Sankey as her bloke, and ruled him with a rod of
iron. She never allowed even the mildest of
his delinquencies to evade her wrath. And the
one mortal sin in her eyes was want of punctu-
ality on the part of her swain on the holiday
night; so Liz was, as Ginger delicately phrased it,
“ ropeable.” The absentee’s friends calmed her
down as best they could, and set off to look for
the cause of the trouble. He was not to be met
on the road, and as it was very dark by the water,
and the tide was almost up, they decided help-
lessly to wait till the morning and see if he
transpired.
So it came about that at daylight next morning
Napper, younger brother to Sankey, roused out a
couple of the boys with the news that Sankey had
not returned, and a search party was hurriedly
despatched to the groper-hole. The tide was
right out, and the flat rock running out over the
hole was quite bare, the short wet weed which
clung across it glistening in the first rays of
the sunrise. First thing found was Sankey’s
bag, which was lying in a niche under the cliff,
and inside it, in addition to his tackle, wore a
sizeable drummer and a couple of red rock-cod.
But no Sankey. * ’■
A curse from Napper brought the rest to the
edge of the rock. He pointed with much pro-
fanity to a place where the weed was torn from
the rock, and a nailed heel had left its impress in
parallel scrapes of white on the green sandstone.
It was quite clear. Sankey always would wear
his boots, and they had been his death.
Suddenly Ginger made a dash towards a crevice
on the left, and dragged out from under a boulder
a reel, from which the line hung limp into the
water. Mechanically, he commenced to haul in
the slack, but, after a dozen feet or so, the line
grew heavy under his hand—heavy with a yielding
weight which his experienced touch at once dis-
tinguished from the drag of the rocks on the
bottom, and he continued slowly and firmly,
walking a little to the right. The others gathered
round, and peered down into the green shades
with awed curiosity. First a shadow, barely
visible in the sombre depths; then a tangible
something, with whites and blacks showing
mistily; and finally Sankey, his curls wet and
crisp over his eyes and a smile of triumph set
upon his livid lips. Gently they lifted him out
and laid him on the cool green of the rock, while
Napper, sobbing curses incoherently under his
breath, tenderly detached a twist of the heavy
schnapper line from about his ankle. Ginger was
still interested in the line. It was caught fast
under a rock, which his straining eyes could just
distinguish in the dark of the side. Walking
round the opposite side he leant over the ledge
and pulled slowly. Reluctantly the line came up,
catching once or twice in its course, and he gave
a long-drawn sigh of expectancy as it finally drew
clear. The others were still gazing despondently
on Sankey’s upturned face, while Napper dis-
THE EMPLOYEES PRESENT THE BOSS
WITH A TESTIMONIAL.
Boss (inwardly): “ What a number of people I
have to pay! I must cut a lot of 'em off."
tractedly swept the salt from his hair. Heavily
the line came in, almost as if there was another
Sankey at its end. The sun, piercing the clear-
ness of the pool, lit up something with a leaden
gleam, and slowly a huge blue fish came into
view. Ginger held him at the surface, and stood
overcome.
“My Gawd ! ” he said, “ Sankey’s groper !”
Drowned, dead as Sankey, the leaden monster
rolled at the end of the line, with an upward turn
of his sodden eye, and his coarse blue lips set in a
cruel curve ; malice writ large about them.
Sankey had caught his groper.
HARRI.


The Last Sacrifice to Dahok.
[FOR THE BULLETIN ]
AT an angle in the rock-cut passage the girl
turned, raised the torch high above her
head, and beckoned.
‘ ‘ Look here, Bolderby ; hang me if I like this.
Heaven knows into what death-trap ” Sherrick
stopped short, astonished at the weird returmngs
upon his ear of his own syllables. From above,
from front, from rear, a score of variously pitched
voices seemed to take up the ominous refrain—
“ What death-trap! Death-trap! Trap!”
Sherrick. with his hand on his pistol, stared
stupidly this way and that ; before him into the
wavering torchlight —behind him into a darkness
that was as a solid, retreat-forbidding wall.
Bolderby laughed. “Curious acoustics!” he
said by way of brief explanation. “ And, no
doubt, part of the awe-inspiring machinery of the
old-time hieratics whose doings we here behold.”
“ Doings ! ” Sherrick’s apprehensions failed to
check the scoff. “If so, they were a lot fonder
of hard work than any other priests before or
since! ”
“ You are over-literal, young man.” Bolderby
moved on again. “I didn’t mean their actual
personal handiwork. But come along!—our
guiding star’s getting impatient! ”
He smiled at the girl as he reached her—an evil-
dream-like figure enough, with her scarlet-circled
eyes and black hair-torrent flowing over the
ghostly white swathings that barely reached to
mid-thigh. But the eye 3 themselves were very
Hrge and liquid, and the teeth which glimmered
in an answering smile were as guiltless of the file
as of the sable-staining sinka juice.
“ Which thing, amongst others,” Bolderby ex-
plained as they went on, “ goes far to prove that
these people, though they’re not Malays, are cer-
tainly not Dyaks. In which case, the only tertium
quid I can think of — Great America! what’s this?”
Like a blow in the face had come sudden
darkness ; then, all around them, and above them,
and against them was a fierce flapping as of the
wings' of demons; an indescribably revolting
smell was in their nostrils, and Sherrick—grap-
pling frantically in the darkness with some name-
less horror that had teeth—called wildly upon his
companion.
“ Bats, man ! —only bats ! ” Bolderby answered,
laughing and puffing as the multitudinous flap-
pings died away behind them. “A rush of
hundreds, that put Galika’s torch out. And
then was Galika’s voice heard, opining that
this sudden sally of the Children of Dark-
ness was of ill omen, and that, if the white
lord would with his “pocket-fire” relight the
torch, it were best they went no further. Evil
was ahead !
But the “ white lord,” having lit the
darnar torch, and eke a big cigar, would have
none of such counsel—even when backed by his
companion. Short and slight and wiry and
grizzled—the elder man turned a half-contempt-
uous gaze upon the younger—long-limbed and
powerful, and belligerently moustaehio’d.
“You can’t go back without the girl, Sherrick—
any more than I can go forward without her. So,
as it’s advance or retreat for all three together,
we’ll put it to the vote.”
He said half a-dozen words to Galilca. She
studied Sherrick’s unwilling countenance for a
moment, then turned to Bolderby and slowly
shook her head. Sherrick caught eagerly at the
gesture.
“There!—it’s plain she doesn’t want to go
apy further. You’re in the minority, you see ! ”
“I see!” Bolderby coolly motioned to the
girl to go ahead—“but it’s the minority that’s
going to run the show on this occasion ! You
weren't asked to come, you know ! ”
“ No ! ” Sherrick’s voice was husky with rising
anger. “But I came to please myself—and I’ll
go back when it pleases myself, too.”
“In the dark ? ” The elder man laughed a
little with the question, but his eye was vigilant
and his hand ready.
“ Not if I know it! ” The other made a sudden
stride towards the girl, and was reaching out to
snatch the torch, when heavily upon his wrist fell
Bolderby’s revolver-butt. With his right hand
dangling, Sherrick started back, reached his left
across his body, and whipped out his own pistol.
But Bolderby had “got the drop” on him.
“It’s no go, my lad ! Touch the torch again, and
I’ll blow a hole in you, as sure as your name isn't
Sherrick. That’s explicit enough, I take it; so
now you can come on—or stay behind.”
The larger man—even to Galika’s unsophisti-
cated observation—cut now so unmistakably the
smaller figure that she laughed gently as she
stepped forward again. Sherrick registered that
laugh, as, in obedience to Bolderby’s imperative
gesture, he took second place in the little pro-
cession.
“No shooting in the back this journey,” the
elder man said to himself as he brought up the rear.
The passage—painfully hewn by immemorial
hands out of the hard basaltic rock—had grown
gradually narrower and lower, till the walls could
be touched with either elbow, and Sherrick’s six
feet of stature brought his head within a couple
of inches of the roof. But the atmosphere, if
anything, was fresher, a dampness began to be
apparent on the stone, and a dull and distant
booming that had stolen unnoticed out of the
silence now waxed upon the ear, till Bolderby
thought he could not be mistaken as to its origin.
He was not. It was the laut besar, Galika
answered to his question—the ocean.
“Soon shall we be under it,” she added ; and
Bolderby, incredulous at first, presently had his
belief compelled by the facts that, as the passage
sloped smartly downwards, the dampness in-
creased to actual moisture, and the surf-sound
died away again almost out of hearing.
“It’s a curious situation,” he thought. “I've
been under the surface of the sea often enough,
but I never expected to be under the bottom of it!
I wonder what thickness, of rock—hallo! the
floor’s beginning to rise again. ‘ Travel we much
further, my sister?’” he called to Galika in the
broken Malay which was their only medium of
communication, for to no language that he was
acquainted with did her own tongue bear any
discoverable resemblance—except that here and
there a word reminded him of the Tamil of south-
eastern India.
The girl—eight or ten yards ahead—turned
swiftly, with a scared face, and warned him
against further speech with the symbol which has
been universal with mankind since first the
Egyptians sculptured, with finger on lip, Har-
pocrates, the God of Silence. Then, having lighted
a fresh torch from her bundle, she went swiftly
onwards and upwards, till, as they rose again
above the surface-level of the sea, they caught
once more the sullen diapason of wave upon rock.
Another fifty yards, and Galika stopped again,
held aloft her light, and pointed. In a flight of
massive steps the passagehad come to an end at last.
“Take thou now the light,” the girl half whis-
pered. “ Here go I not first! ”
Bolderby took the torch, and, after a doubtful
glance at Sherrick—still half-furious, half terrified
—went lightly up the steps. With a small, semi-
circular landing the stairway soon turned uDon
itself, then turned again, and Bolderby, as* he
mounted wonderingly the third short flight, found
before him an open doorway—squat, square, and
filled with a mild, white radiance. It was the light
of the moon, but, before Bolderby could step out
into it, there was a sharp crack behind him, and,
with a long stagger, he fell upon his face.
Instantly Galika sprang up the steps, bounded
over the prostrate figure, and darted away in
the moonlight—vainly followed by two bullets
from the treacherous pistol. Sherrick, with a
curse, stooped over Bolderby. Plain enough,
under the powerful _ equatorial moonlight, was
the tiny bullet-hole in the white cotton jacket
midway between the fallen man’s shoulders.
Sherrick’s face was corpse-white and the blood
was thundering in his ears, but he forced himself
—as some men will—to pretend to himself that he
repented no whit of what lie had done.
“First-class shooting!” lie muttered, with an
uneasy laugh. “ Nicked him right on the spine !
VVell, it s plunder as well as revenge; I know
where he’s planted the gold he brought down from
the lukoran River.” He gave the motionless
figure a kick still further to assure himself of
his own desperado-ship—and then fell to won-
dering, despite his intense preoccupation, at the
extraordinary place in which he found himself.
A huge quadrangular enclosure —it had appar-
ently been excavated in the solid rock, for the
walls, immensely lofty, were of the same hard,
black basalt as the floor, though not, like it,
polished with incalculable labor to the actual
smoothness of glass. Like the tranquil surface of a
lake, indeed, shone this magnificent floor to the
moon, and doubled as accurately as a mirror the
amazing object which occupied the centre of the
enclosure. -A quadrilateral pyramid, this—fifty
HAMLET ON THE SYDNEY “BOCKS.”
“What a piece of work is Man ! How noble in reason I How infinite in faculty! IN
FORM AND MOVING HOW EXPRESS AND ADMIRABLE ! IN ACTION HOW LIKE AN ANGEL ! in appre-
hension how like a god ! the beauty of the world ! the paragon of animals !!”
—HAMLET II.
feet high, carved out of the substance of the rock,
and terminating in an enormous human head, so
fiendish of feature and inconceivably malevolent
of expression that the murderer-in-intent felt his
scalp-skin crawl. For a moment the resistless
fancy possessed him that behind this hideous
mask of seeming stone some monstrous and
devilish intelligence had become cognisant of
himself and his deed.
It was emphatically an occasion for the arrack-
flask ; and Sherrick, as the potent spirit found his
nerves, “blessed unaware” the inventor of dis-
tillation. Hesitatingly, nevertheless, and with
many turnings of the head, he stepped along the
mirror-like floor to the base of the pyramid.
Then, suddenly, as he gazed upward at that
horrific Head, he bethought him of Galika.
“She must not escape !” he muttered, re-loaded
the three empty chambers of his pistol, and dis-
appeared behind the pyramid from the view of
Bolderby.
For Bolderby dead—wasn’t even seri-
ously injured. Under his shirt, and between his
shoulders, he wore the rheumatism-cure of the
Sulu Islanders, a small copper disc sewn up in
snake-skin ; and this, if it hadn’t cured his rheu-
matism, had certainly saved his life. But the
powerful impact of the bullet directly over the
spine had paralysed and partly stunned him for
the time. Now, however, he was all himself
again ; and, as he rose cautiously to his feet, his
lean, hard face was pale beneath its bronze—but
not with fear.
With scarcely a glance at his surroundings, he
drew back into the gloom of the stairway. All
his ethnological enthusiasm was awake—but there
was business —and justice ! —to be done, first.
“If all I’ve heard is true,” he said to himself,
“ there’s no other egress from the place than this;
so, when he finds the girl, she’s sure to break back
for here if he doesn’t manage to pot her on sight.
The treacherous hound ! he made an uncommonly
elose call of it for me. I didn’t pin much faith to
old Lambarki’s copper-cure, but it’s kept me on
the slate this time, sure enough. ”
Silence, then—save for the pounding of the surf
outside those Titanic walls —for about a minute,
ihen suddenly came the slight sound of Galika’s
naked feet, as she darted swiftly back for
Bolderby’s hiding-place; and then round the
pyramid, just as the girl reached the doorway,
came running Sherrick, barely in time to fire at
her as she vanished into the darkness. The bullet
clipped harmlessly against the ascending roof of
the passage, and close upon the report of the
pistol Bolderby’s voice followed Galika down the
stairway. “ Wait! ” was all he said, but the quick
savage faculties caught instantly the word and
its significance ; just below the first turn-
ing Galika stopped, drew close against the
wall, and listened. Then came the sound of run-
ning feet—a heavy fall—and the clattering of
some metallic object down the steps.
It is well, Galika!” called Bolderby next
moment. “ Come up ! —and bring with thee that
fire-pipe.”
Galika picked up the “ fire-pipe Sherrick’s
pistol—and ascended.
Senseless, and bleeding from mouth and nose,
the pursuer lay in the moonlight into which the
other man had dragged him. Tripped-up, as he
ran, by Bolderby’s foot extended in the darkness,
Sherrick had pitched violently down the steps
upon his face.
“Your beauty’s spoilt for ever, my young
friend,” the older man said, grimly, “evon if your
scoundrelly skull isn’t cracked outright. But I’ll
make sure of you—in case you should take to play-
ing ’possum, in turn ! ”
lie took the coir-lino from around Galika’s
bundle of damar torches, and securely triced-up
his man. Then suddenly into the girl’s big eyes
sprang all the unrestrained retributive ecstasy of
the savage; instinctively she crouched and
quivered like a feline creature on the spring.
“ Slay him not with thine own hand, my lord !
Rather make of him one more sacrifice to Dahok.”
“To Dahok!” The words brought back to
Bolderby the purpose of his presence in this
legendary fane of the primeval race from which
Galika’s mysterious people claimed descent. And
to Dahok—their sea-god, their barbarous, prehis-
toric Poseidon—was dedicated this vast temple ;
literally—as Bolderby now comprehended—a hol-
lowed-out island of rock ; the labor, obviously, of
thousands of hands for hundreds of years. And
this was Dahok himself—this horror-headed pyra-
mid which Bolderby now walked eagerly over to
examine.
The details were distinct enough, for, though
the full moon was sinking to its setting, the rapid
tropic dawn was already making plain a counten-
ance that reminded Bolderby strongly of those
ethnological enigmas, the gigantic sculptures of
Easter Island. But this face—with its long,
leering eyes, its hideously contorted nose, its
sepulchral mouth and huge projecting tongue-
exceeded in sheer devilry of expression any graven
countenance the wandering anthropologist had
ever seen. The mighty tongue—six feet broad,
and at least ten in anterior projection—was evi-
dently, as Bolderby soon perceived, intended as a
platform to the cavernous mouth, to each corner
of which led up—cutting off on either side an
angle of the pyramid—a flight of broad stone steps.
About the whole huge object—seen thus by the
sad, grey light of early dawn —there seemed to
Bolderby to cling an atmosphere of nameless
horror —a sinister suggestion of cruelty, inexorable
and unspeakable. Galika had spoken often of
human sacrifices to Dahok. Was it up these
steps that, in those dim archaic times, the bound
victim used to be carried ? —and was that mons-
trous tongue the place of immolation ?
“Galika!” Bolderby called aa he turned
round; but Galika, flat upon her face within a
couple of yards of him, was rendering abject
homage td the malignant deity of her ancestors.
“And her people call themselves Mahometans! ”
reflected Bolderby. “How hard these diabolical
old paganisms die ! ”
He went slowly up the steps on one side,
stepped cautiously upon the colossal tongue, and
looked into the enormous mouth—a gape of seven
feet wide, by alxjut a yard in height. Behind
the tongue, the back part of which sloped sharply
downwards, was an opening almost in the natural
position of the gullet. But it was nearly a,yard
in diameter ; and when Bolderby, stretching him-
self cautiously down the intra-oral slope, peered
over the edge of the orifice, he saw nothing but
profoundest darkness.
“I thought there had been a furnace of some
kind,’ he said to himself. “It was mostly with
fire these horrors were wrought by the races to
which I suspect Galika’s people bear someHftinity.
Bringing fuel here, of course, would have befcn a
difficulty ; though, as far as that goes, the word
‘ difficulty ’ doesn’t seem to have had much mean-
ing for the men who cut so many miles of rock
passages, and polished to mirror-like perfection
this adamantine floor. And how in creation
did they get the excavated stone out of here?—
these sides are 200 ft. high, if they’re an inch.
Well, it’s only the Egyptian puz/.le over aguin.
Come up hither, Galika !” he called. “I would
speak with thee.”
Galika—more or less Mahometan again—spat
thrice upon the shining floor, and slowly mounted
the stops.
“It was down this opening the victims wore
cast, Galika—was it not so?”
“ft was so, whito lord—into the holly of Dahok.”
“ Alive? ”
“Alive I —but bound hand and foot. Is it my
lord’s purpose to cast into the bowels of Dahok *
the accursed son of Sheetun who would have*
slain us both ? ”
“It is my purpose, Galika,” Bolderby
answered, as he went down the stops. Anil
Galika, as she followed, smiled the smile of one
from whom a great anxiety has been removed.
But Bolderby’s intention was other tluvn he said.
“ I can’t murder him in cold blood,” lie thought,
“ but I’ll give him a fright that he’ll remember till
he’s hanged—as he probably will bo, sooner or
later.”
Shorrick’s sensos had returned, blit thoro was
still a dazed look upon his bruised face, and
botween his swollen lips Bolderby inserted the
neok of his spirit-flask, and poured down the
prisoner’s throat a doso of raw arrack that set
him coughing and sputtering for nearly a minute.
But the eye lighted up uguin with full comprehen-
sion of the situation.
“What are you going to do with me? ’ he
asked hoarsely.
“You shall hoar!” Bolderby seated himself
deliberately beside the prisoner and turned to the
gloating girl.
“Tell me now, Galika, what was the custom of
thy fathers at the sacrifice of a man to Dahok ; so
that unto this murderous dog may I mako known
thy words.”
And Galika, seating herself also, told—Bol-
derby translating bit by bit to the miserable
Sherrick—how, when Dahok, Lord of the Sea, was
angered, lots were cast among the people, and
how the person upon whom the lot had fallen-
male or female, old or young—was brought by
night to this place, and at sunrise laid, fast-
bound, within the mouth of Dahok. How then
outside, upon Dahok’s tongue, waited the chief-
priest for the space of four hands of the sun, and
how, if by that time Dahok had not signified his
dissatisfaction with the human offering by blowing
it out of his mouth, it was the priest’s duty to
administer to the victim the gentle push behind
that sent him, head foremost, down the throat of
the god.
“Ah, well !” Bolderby said, coolly lighting a
cigar when he had finished his interpretation ;
“it’s a bit past sunrise now ; but perhaps, as I’m
rather new to the distinguished office of chief-
priest, Dahok will excuse some slight informality
in the proceedings. “Take thou his feet,
Galika,” he added, in Malay; “I will take his
shoulders. Unto Dahok he goeth !’’
With a mighty effort that actually jerked his
body some inches from the stone, Sherrick strove
suddenly to burst his bonds—then lay still,
imploring and execrating by turns.
“Cursing, my friend,” said Bolderby, as he
grasped the other by the shoulders, “is a mighty
foolish habit at the best of times ! And, when a
man has only got one poor hour more to live .”
“To live?” Sherrick’s voice ascended to a
scream. “Onehour?”
“That’s about the figure. ‘Four hafids of the
sun,’ Galika calls it. Unless, indeed, our friend
Dahok should think you too measly an object for
even him to swallow. That’s your thickest chance,
my young friend—and it’s about as thin as they
make ’em! ”
With which cheerful observation Bolderby
hoisted up the shuddering wretch’s shoulders,
Galika took the ankles, and the ascent of the
steps began.
Still as a corpse lay Sherrick, until, just as his
bearers were stepping on to the idol’s fateful
tongue, a sudden and tremendous effort of his
whole muscular system nearly sent all three
rolling down the steps again. But he was in ex-
ceptional hands. The small, lean Hercules at
one end of him and the lusty young savage at the
other stood the shock between them, and next
moment the doomed man was lying helplessly,
head lowest, along the facilis decensus to a hor-
rible destruction.
“When he has had about au hour of it,”
thought Bolderby, as he slowly descended the
steps, “I’ll let up on him. An hour of that
should square us.”
He took another step and stopped.
“Square us? No—it would do more! The
death he meant for me was nothing after all—
alive, and then not alive ! —over in the tenth of a
second ! But this thing is twenty thousand deaths
in one! ”
He threw away his cigar and turned. Upon
the top step still stood the woman—looked at him
—read his relenting in his face—and like a flash
was back upon the idol’s tongue, pushing fiercely
inwards with her firm brown arms. A man of
instant action, Bolderby was at the woman’s back
in three seconds. But Galika only laughed as he
thrust his arm in above her.
“ Thou art too late, my lord ! ” she said, gently,
as they rose and faced each other.
With a curious whitening about the sides of his
sun-bronzed nose, Bolderby dropped his lean
brown claw for a moment upon the butt of his
revolver. Galika, with the savage instinct that
warned of an indefinable danger, sank, with the
natural suppliant motion of all times and climes,
upon her knees.
“ A cloud passeth—o, my lord ! ” she said.
The man took bis hand from the death-dealing
little engine at his belt.
“It hath passed! Wherefore should I in turn
slay thee?—lnheritrix of Cruelty ! Let us go.
Dahok hath had his final sacrifice !”
ALEY MONTGOMERY.


Roses and Rue.
[FOR THE BULLETIN ]
THE old man worked in his garden plot,
Near the shade of the church-yard yew ;
And ever he tended his roses there,
And ever he gathered the rue.
A stranger came, of a stately calm
And an air of high emprise ;
Of a mighty brow—(but the night had fallen
On the depths of his dreary eyes !)
“Now, vain, indeed, if thou reapest no more,
Is all that thine hands can do.
Hast never a rose, in all thy store,
-That thou pluckest the mournful rue?”
Then the old man piped, in his plaintive voice,
“ Indeed, but thou sayest true,
Though I labor long for the flowers I love,
Yet I win but the woeful rue.
“ For, ere my roses have scarcely bloomed,
Come the youths with their breasts of fire ;
They bear me down with exultant strength
And fly with my heart’s desire.
“ And, tli us, it chances I gather still
But the rue for the roses red,
Yet I hope to weave, in the days to conic,
A garland to deck my head.”
The stranger laughed with his level lips
(But, oh, in his eyes the gloom !) :
“ For those grey hairs weave garlands ! Bali !
Go ; brood above a tomb ! ”
I he old man turned with a working mouth,
And a spark in his rheumy eye ;
“Oh, fool! Oh, fool! Accursed fool,
Who art thrice as old as 1 !
“ What though my limbs be shrivelled and weak
Must my heart be shrivelled, too ?
And may I not hope for roses yet,
Though ever I've worn the rue ?
Oh, bitter fool of the bent grey soul.
Of the load and the jibing tongue :
The heart that s a home for a singing hope
Do the kindly gods keep young.
“Lo, death has smitten thine arid heart,
That once was a springing field ;
Ihou canst brood, I trow, o’er tombs enow
That never shall be unsealed !”
Then the stranger went on his lonely wav.
Afar up the stormy fell ;
And the shadow grew in his dreary eyes,
And he laughed, as they laugh in hell.’
And the old man turned to his work again,
Near the shade of the church-yard yew ;
And ever he tended his roses there, ’
And ever he gathered the rue.
N.B.W.
CECIL POOLK.
A Romance of Three Huts.
[FOR THE BULLETIN ]
IT AROUSED HIS
INTEREST.
THR BEAK: “ Why did you get
drunk?”
BOOZICAN: “ Because the beer was so
good.”
THE BEAK ( anxiously): “ Where did you get it ?”
cloud of thick, brownish dust, that
I indicated the passing of the mail coach,
paused opposito the claim, and the driver
left a brown paper parcel on the corner post of
the new-split, two-rail fence which had recently
taken the place of the old, convict-built log fence
round the Log Paddock. The Quiet Man took
the parcel and put it in a box, which held nails,
candle ends, etc., under the bellows of the pick-
pointing forge. Then he climbed to the top of
the logged-up waste-heap, sat on the edge and
dropped his feet over the shaft into the suspended
green-hide bucket and took a grip of the rope,
and his mate, taking a turn of the rope round
a cross-piece on the whip-pole, lowered him to the
bottom for his shift below.
“Now I wonder what Tom got up by the
coach,” reflected the man on top, with a lazy
mental effort. “It was too light for groceries,
and it can’t be fancy goods.”
There were three huts on the siding of a spur of
the ridge that came down to the corner of Log
Paddock. One, a one-roomed bark hut, with the
chimney and door in an end, stood down close to
the road, within stone-throw 6f the claim. The
other two were up the hill a bit, to right and left,
the one on the left a two-roomed bark hut,
the other had four rooms, a skillion, and a shed,
and white-washed slab walls, and was called a
house—“ Mrs. Foster’s House,” or “ Mrs. Foster’s
Place, ” or, for short, “the Fosters’.” Mrs. Foster’s
husband and sons were away mostly, working with
the drays—tank-sinking, dam-making, &c.—and
her daughter was in service with the old land-
grant family who owned Log Paddock—several
thousands of acres of good, clear, level creek and
river-frontage land—and did nothing with it,
while the selectors broke their backs and hearts
trying to make farms in the barren ridges. Mrs.
Foster was just a gaunt, practical bushwoman
who, in long years of hardship, drought and
struggle, had lost the faculty of bothering about
things. She kept some cows and fowls and sold
eggs and butter, and assisted at bush confine-
ments gratis. She worked hard always—
it was a habit she couldn’t break herself of;
besides, there was nothing to rest for. She took
the good, old, quiet Australian Journal— they
had got into the habit of subscribing for. it years
and years before—and when it came she read it by
snatches, between mending and patching, or over
a lonely cup of tea, as if it were a less important
part of her work, or duty, yet a part. She gave
tramps their allowance of tucker, too, as a matter
of course, as though she regarded them as details
of ordinary bush-life, in the ordinary bush day’s
work. And so they were.
The woman who lived in the two-roomed hut
was quite a young woman—32 or 33—and quite
good-looking. She had, in her grey eyes, some-
thing that was past being haggard, and past being
haunted, and past being contemptuous; an ex-
pression—if you might call it an expression, or the
ghost of an expression—as if hope, love, terror,
horror, remorse, hatred, and ice-cold contempt for
the world and all in it had all been there at one
time, but years ago. I saw just such an expres-
sion once in the eyes of a girl-singer who was
playing a harp and singing in a low pub in a
sailors’ bar in Genoa. The woman in the
hut had a weak face, or a face that had
been weak, with a curved-down mouth, but
looking as if it had been chiseled down with
hard cuts in hard stone. She had bplonged to a
family of publicans on the old Pipeclay gold-
field ; had run away to Sydney with someone
as ' a girl, and come back in two or three
years with a sewing-machine and a baby girl;
had gone‘with the rush to Gulgong and other
fields, keeping grimly to herself and working as a
dressmaker.' The vicious cackle of women’s
tongues had died out with the years, other chil-
dren had been allowed and encouraged to play
with her little girl—now a sweet, gentle little
thing of 10 or 12—and from being referred to
viciously _as “Mrs. Brent-as-she-calls-herself,”
she came'to be called Mrs. Brent by courtesy,
then by custom, and now respectfully. The
quiet influence of quiet, respectable men,
who knew the world, had a lot to do in
bringing this change about—they always treated
her very respectfully. Mrs. Foster was
her friend. They had been neighbors on Gul-
gong, too,' where, one day, Mrs. Foster got a
suspicion. Then she watched, and
next day, after breakfast, and
when Mrs. Brent’s little girl
had gone to school, she
dropped on her most unex-
pectedly with a length of dress materia?. Mrs.
Brent hastily threw a sheet of newspaper over
half a loaf of bread, a saucer of dripping, and a
cup of milkless, sugarless tea on the table; but
she was too late. She was making moleskin
trousers for the stores at that time. Mrs. Foster
was a woman of hard, practical kindness and little
or no tact, and she offended Mrs. Brent at once.
“What do you mean,’’she demanded, : “to come
here and talk to me like that ? What is it to
you whether I had any breakfast or-not? I
don t know you ! It’s a new thing for a strange
woman to come into a woman’s house and insult
her. Who are you, and what do you want ? ”
I m Mrs. Foster, and I was there when you
were born ; but you don’t remember that. All I
know is that you’re starving yourself—you can’t
work on an empty stomach; no woman can.
You’ll break down. And there’s your little girl
“She had an egg for her breakfast,” broke in
Mrs. Brent passionately. “There’s the shell in
the fire-place if you don’t believe me. If you
think I’m a pauper to be—to be -But why !To
think of the brazen impudence of it! ” she gasped.
Now you just get out of this house, whoever you
are ! There’s the door ! ”
And so it was, but so there was Mrs. Foster,
who had managed men in the D.T.’s, and had
nursed a mad woman in her time; and so, in two
minutes, the door was shut, and the girl who had
gone wrong was sobbing on the flat breast of the
woman who had never got the chance.
I hey often sewed together, mostly in silence,
and had a cup of tea together—sometimes at Mrs.
Brent’s hut and sometimes at Mrs. Foster’s. I
d ,on t know whether Mrs. Brent told Mrs. Foster
all about it, but most probably she did once and
IT KNEW.
HEBE : “ I’m awfully flustered, you know. This is my very first day in a bar."
CUSTOMER : “Aw! I noticed that your manners had not that repose which
marks the caste of beer de beer."
was done with it. When they sat and worked
together in silence the chances are that the
younger woman brooded over the old wrong, and
her relatives who were scattered and from whom
she had never heard “since it happened.” It
would., I think, be impossible to puzzle out what
women like Mrs. Foster think about over their
work. She was past hoping or fretting, and past
complaining. There was nothing in the future,
and there could have been little brightness in the
past. \et she knitted Iher forehead, and seemed
to be thinking deeply at times ; but perhaps she
was only considering the advisability of buying
another yard or two of that stuff she got at the
store in town.
The Quiet Man lived in the hut near the road,
with his little boy of five or six. The Quiet Man’s
name was Torn Moore, and he !had been a popular
man on the goldfields. He married a girl at Grul-
gong about seven years before, and she died before
■they had their first serious quarrel. She died in
child-birth. Mrs. Foster was a neighbor then;
she nursed Mrs. Moore, took charge of the child,
cooked Tom’s meals and saw that he ate them.
He had been a quiet man ever since. There had
been talk of him and Mrs. Brent when she was a
girl and he little more than a boy, on the old
Pipeclay diggings years ago ; but he very seldom
spoke to, and never of, her, and he treated her
with the greatest of respect. It was noticed that
while other diggers gave her clothes to make and
maend, he never did ; but he saw that her water-
cask was kept filled, in dry weather, from the
spring on the flat, and that a load of cut firewood
was dumped at the back of the hut occasionally.
Log Paddock was nearly done, and there were
fewer diggers than selectors in the vicinity. The
children went to a small “provisional’’ school,
over the ridges—where, by the way, little else
than geography was provided, the teacher being
well nap in that branch, and no other.
Little Harry Moore went , there occasionally,
and was taken in strict and motherly custody,
from the time he left his father’s hut until he
(returned to it, by little Lily Brent. Mrs. Foster
looked after little Harry’s stomach, and the seats
of his breeches, while the father was at work ; and
little Harry usually slept at her place while Tom
was on night shift. The child knew her as
“Aunty Foster” all his life, and every male in
the vicinity was “ Uncle ” to him.
Now, along about this Christmas-time, Aunty
Foster got another suspicion. On one or two
occasions Tom thanked her for certain repairs and
additions to his son’s wardrobe, which she
couldn’t remember—wasn’t responsible for, in
fact; and it puzzled her vaguely, but she was
past bothering over riddles. But, one day, he
thanked her very kindly for a new shirt for
Harry, and insisted on paying for the material
anyhow; and she knew she hadn’t made that
shirt. She thought a moment, and said, “Oh ! ”
and that puzzled him a bit. Then she said, “ Oh,
that’s all right! ”
Some days later Mrs. Brent fell ill, and Mrs.
Foster nursed her for a day and a night. Early
next morning Tom saw her hurrying across from
Mrs. Brent’s hut to her own, and stumbled hastily
up the hill to cut her off —and seemed to have
nothing to say to her when he stopped her. But
Mrs. Foster understood him as he stood helplessly
and purposelessly before her.
“She’s much better, Tom,” she said. “She's
had a good sleep, and she’ll be all right by to-
morrow.”
“Thank you, Mrs. Foster,” said Tom, and
retreated in confusion to his hut, where he let the
chops burn, and started to put on his little boy’s
trousers back to front.
“ Father,” said Harry, suddenly; “are you in
love ? ”
“Wha’—what?” gasped Tom.
“Because,” said Harry, “Lily Brent says that
when people are in love they forget and do things
wrong.”
“Don’t talk nonsense, sonny,” said Tom, so
the conversation closed.
Tom had always been extremely shy of
his little boy, and avoided conversation,
and they were strangers yet ; but an inci-
dent was coming along which was to bring
those two lonely
hearts close to-
gether.
It was Christ-
mas Eve, and Tom
and his mate
knocked off a few
mi mites before
twelve at night.
The hut and its
shadow stood a
dark patch in the
bright moonlight.
Tom went *in
softly and lit the
candle. Little
Harry was asleep
—or seemed
asleep. To m
changed his wet
flannel and mole-
skins, and then
opened the parcel
he had brought
with him. A
woman’s stocking
hung to a nail at
the head of the
boy’s bunk, and
the sight of it
gave Tom a pang ;
lie thought at first
that it was one of
his wife’s stock-
ings, which had
remained all this
time' unnoticed
amongst his be-
long ings, and
which the boy had
found ; but, on
second thoughts,
ho concluded that
it must have been
borrowed for the
purpose from Mrs.
Foster. Moving
softly, Tom put
the lollies, ball,
stem of a jump-
ing-jack and tin
whistle in the
stocking, and laid
a “ Chatterbox ”
and a popgun on
the table close
handy. He turned
to see if ho had
missed anything
when the boy
spoke suddenly,
and Tom started
as if he had been
shot. Little Harry
was sitting up, his
eyes wide open
and bright, and
his arms stretched out towards his father.
“Father ! Father !” he cried. “Oh, I’m so glad
you’re Santa Claus. I suspected it for such a
long time.”
And the lonely man went down on his knees by
the bunk, and the little arms went round his neck.
“Father,” said Harry, presently, “why do
you turn your face away ? Why don’t you look
at me ? ”
But the father couldn’t for awhile. Presently
he asked, in a strange voice :
“ Where did you get th 9 stocking, sonriy ? ” •
“From Mrs. Brent,” said Harry, “but I pro-
mised her not to tell.”
A thought struck Tom.
“Did Mrs. Brent make any clothes or things
for you, Harry ? ” he asked.
“ Yes,” said Harry. “And, father, she’s got
an old portrait of you—same’s what we’ve got. I
saw her looking at it one day—but I promised not
to tell that, either.”
Just then there was a step outside, and Tom
opened the door, and there stood Mrs. Brent, who
started, gasped, turned very white, and then
flushed in the moonlight.
“Oh!” she gasped, “I —_ r —didn’t know you
were home, and—ai.d I just come to see if little
Harry was all right.”
Tom suddenly stepped forward, took both her
hands, and looked into her Startled eyes. They
stood so for a moment; then, as she felt, or
fancied she felt his hands loosen, she cried out, as
though pleading for life.
DIAGNOSED.
FRANCINE : “ How does being in love make yer
feel, ’Enry?”
’ENRY : “Of it makes a bloke long fer a icoman
ter support ’im .”
“Tom —Tom! It happened so long ago, and
I’d be a good wife to you ; forgive me.”
And Tom took her to him.
And, one morning in the new year, after the
wash-up (and the claim panned out very well) the
four of them went away in the coach, and for ft
long time after the dust-cloud disappeared down
the road, Mrs. Foster sat staring blindly at th*
pages of the Australian J ournal.
HENRI LAW[?]ON


DEATH BEFORE DISHONOR!


Aboriginalities.
THE APOLOGETIC STATESMAN AND THE
LOATHSOME PARENTHESIS 1
IFou The Bulletin.]
Being any political oration delivered in the last seven
years ( condensed).
This State (considering the drought) is doing splendid !
It fares ( ~ ~ ~ ) extremely well!
The worst ( ~ „ „ )is fairly ended!
Good times ( „ „ „ )we may foretell 1
Our loans (considering the drought) are warmly greeted!
’Tis clear ( „ „ ~ ) our credit’s good!
Our farms ( „ „ ~ ) are well repleted!
Our banks ( „ „ „ ) have bravely stood!
The cow (considering the drought) is still prolific !
The sheep ( „ „ „ ) has lots of wool!
The rain ( „ „ „ )is beatific!
The hog ( ~ ~ „ )is keeping cool!
The horse (considering the drought) is looking hearty !
All stock ( „ „ „ )is hearty, too!
Support ( ~ ~ „ ) the same old party 1
And we ( „ „ „ ) will pull you
through !
N - s - w > W. T. Goodgb.
* * * *
“Ya-as!” said old
Riley, “ole Tob’s the
cutest something quad-
erruped I ever druv. He
knocks that ther bull o’
Mulga Jack’s wot uster
stand up on his hind
paws ter reach ther gum
leaves, right out o’ther
runnin’. When I wuz
breakin’ of him in I uster
put me damper in ther
ashes and go up ther hill
ter cut rafters, leavin’
Toby and ther rest of
ther bullocks close handy.
When I comes back ’bout
ten ’spectin’ter find ther
jolmny ’bout cooked*
strike me paralytic if
’twasn’t gawn. I just
cussed a while, and then
turned to and made some
flap-jacks. Next day me
damper disappeared
agen, just the same, so I
thought it wouldn’t be
a bad id ear ter find out
who stole it. So I jist
puts on another and goes
off up ther hill a bit and
climbs’ a tree to watch
ther camp. Waited about
half an hour when I spots
Toby rnakin’ straight for
ther fire. Scratchin’ ther
ashes away a bit with
his fore foot he jabs his
horn inter me damper.
Seeing, from the little
bits what stuck to his
horn, it warn’t right
cooked, he raked ther
ashes on to it agen
and went back to ther
other bullocks. Well, it flabbergasted me a bit,
I tell yer, an I began ter wonder if ther
whisky I d had at ther shanty a week before was
berginnin’ ter make me see things. But I nearly
fell orf ther tree when, about half-an hour after,
ther beast comes back an’ goes through ther same
performance at ther fire. This time, he seemed
to be satisfied that it was done all right, for he
hooks ther damper on his other horn an’ takes it
to a stump close handy. He drops it onter ther
stump, turns round, and carefully brushes all ther
ashes off it with his tail, gives it time to get cool,
an’ then scoffs ther lot. But I tricked him after
that by cookin’ ther dampers at night.
* * * *
“B.”; The Hindu plays many roles to
ingratiate himself ; know one who makes a study
ot “gossip.” At every place he visits he makes it
part of his business to find out everything he can
about the neighbors. This is then retailed with
soap or glass beads to the other neighbors;
the result is that he has become a welcome caller
at nearly every cocky’s humpy, and small pur-
chases are made in order to hear the latest about
Mother Jones, or Tilly Brown’s bloke, or if the
bank is going to sell off John Smith.
“ Deeby ” : A list of the names painted on
carriers’ waggons would be a grotesque collection.
Have come across “Sara Bernhardt,” “Baden
Powell,” “Peter Jackson,” ‘Adeline Patti,”
“Slavin,” and “Lord Roberts”; also, “For
Cash,” “Cash on the Nail,” “Cash Only,” and
others of that ilk. I knew a man who nambd his
waggon “Slavery Days.” It was during the
depression following the collapse of the old boom
days, in ’93. This carrier was engaged to cart
wool for the most tyrannical and best
hated squatter in N.S.W. Riding past the
woolshed with his overseer, he passed this carrier’s
waggon and read the legend. “ Where’s the damn
fellow who owns that waggon ? ” he inquired of
the overseer; “I’ll have none of his sort about
my place!” Then he straightway notified the
carrier that “ Slavery Days ” would hump loading
to his place no more.
* * * *
“G-.E.” tells of “The Shouting of Pil-
berger ”
“ Hullo, Johnson ! Come ’n have a drink with me, ole
man. I’m alone in the great city and athirst in the
blindin’ desert. . . Yes; but they’ve all deserted me ;
fellers can’t stay now’days, Johnson. Come in here;
A DROUGHT SIGN.
nice little girl. Lookout! Yer nearly trod’n half-crown.
Mos’ extror'nary. . . Have another, ole chap. . . Now
puryer money ’way ’n I’ll tell yer all ’bout it. . . I can’t
walk ’r yard without pickin’ money up. Picked up half-
sov’rn over whash y’r callems. What y’r goin’t’ have ole
chap ? . . . There y’ are ! Would yer kin’ly pick it up f’r
me, Johnson; I’m gettin’ tired. Pooh, ’s only shillin’.
Give it that boy. I’m pickin’ it up everywhere. S’ help
me, ole feller, ole Pierpong Morg’n ’ll be nothin’ ter me
dreckly, I tell y’r, Johnson, I’ll ’ndow this city wish
hun’red fountains flowin’ wish pure rum ; make all
bloomin’ teetollers r’form. . . Tell yer I put all money I
fin’ in wes’eoat pock’t; all own money’s in trouser pock’t.
What y’r goin’ ter have ? . . . Tha’s right, be sens’ble
man. . . B’Jove, Johnson, spent all wes’eoat pock’t. . .
No ! You be dam’, soon fine some more ; borrrer some
from trouser now. . . Hell ’ver hole in trouser pock’t.
Better len’ ’s a bob. . . Sorry f’r you, Johnson, but have
t’r pos’pone fountains. . . Go ter devil! Won’t go home;
goin’ t’r look for me money. Goo’ night, Johnson.”
• * • *
In an auctioneer s room in Manawatu
(M.L.), there hangs above his table a framed
letter, received, some years ago, from a new
arrival, who, having been given his whack of the
family estate, was sent to “the cawlonies ” to
make more by buying stock and watching them
increase. Having, to that end, bought a run, he
wrote to the firm in question, commissioning it to
purchase him some “ bitch sheep.”
“P.F.” describes a table d’hote in a
gunyah
Menu Burnt ’possum. Boiled eel. Three small sweet
potatoes and one yam. Some uncooked scarlet cherry
chilies.
Diners—three aboriginals. Jacky, an aged chief ;
Ginny, his wife ; Annie, his daughter.
Jacky squats to dine. The gins stand behind at a little
distance; beyond them several mangy, fly-tormented,
tick-laden mongrels hungrily prowl. Jacky devours the
eel and vegetables in majestic silence ; then he tackles
the ’possum. He leaves the bigger bones to the last, then
commences to pick every scrap off them. Finishing a bone,
he turns it over most carefully, examines it with profound
attention, and satisfied that his teeth have properly
polished it, he lifts the bone hesitatingly over his right
shoulder, meditates gloomily as to whether or not he is
acting too generously ; then hurls it over his left shoulder
to his wife. She picks it up hastily and mouths it,
apparently with much enjoyment. She knows there is
nothing on it, but wifely policy requires her to show that
she thinks there’s plenty. Then when Jacky turns to
his pile of bones again, she pitches it to the dogs. The
dog that pounces on it crunches and promptly swallows
it. He knows if there is anything on it, that’s his only
chance of securing the plunder.
Jacky finishes another bone, but he is getting satisfied
by this time, for he is several degrees more paunchy than
he was before. LisJessly he picks over the pile and
seizes a bone not yet touched ; waveringly he moves thi3
to and fro, grumbles “Na, Na, Na, N-n-n-n, N-N-N-
Nen ” and flings it to Annie. The bone overshoots her
and a dog swallows it. Annie raises a lugubrious wail;
she has had plenty of bananas and yams lately but she is
“ meat hungry.” Jacky laughs, a wheezy little cachinna-
tion of humor, turns round, crams the last corner of his
stomach with a large piece of meat and grinningly eyes
the two women.
There is still some meat on the bone when he puts it
down. Slowly he picks out an overlooked tit-bit. The
hungry gins watch anxiously. Jacky holds it aloft and
peering out of the corners of his half-closed eyes, swallows
the tit-bit. He picks up a bone, “ Na-Na-Na—, N-n-n—,
Unn ! Na, Na, N-n-n-n—,” 3lings it to gin. Rises, throws
several bones to Annie ; leaves the remainder. His wife
comes over hesitatingly. Jacky frowningly, “You got
’bacca, I got none! ” Gin whines that she tried
desperately but couldn’t get any either. Jacky, furiously,
“ Why you no got’bacca?” Kicks her. This action she
deftly turns into an excuse to squat down by the remains
of the chief’s repast. Jacky retires to a gunyah beneath
a shady banana stool, tilts his battered hat over his nose,
takes an uncut cake of tobacco from his pocket, lights his
pipe, smokes and drowses—while the gins, squabbling in
whispers, suck the bones.
* * » *
Dear Bulletin.— Re record “perishes.” I
know a man who lived on his father for 10 years ;
and the old man was only a little-’un, too !
Porthos.
“Ed.”:, A trapper in Avoca (Vic.) dis-
trict has invented a crate 50 feet long by 30 feet
wide for conveying rabbits to Geelong. The crate
is composed of a light framework of wood, covered
with wire netting and built close to the ground. It
is open at the bottom. The whole affair runs very
lightly on wheels. For a start a quantity of thistles
are placed in the forward end. The rabbits
rushing for them move the crate forward. The
boss has a reaper-and-binder seat fastened on top.
He simply steers. The rabbits, feeding
push the crate with the boss, his swag, dog and
family. The rabbits (500 strong) were last week
delivered at the North Shore (Geelong) Freezing
Works in fine condition. With a good season the
inventor claims to do carrying jobs to the seaport
and catch rabbits at the same time, the inrush of
rabbits driving the machine at an average rate of
seven miles a day.
* * * *
Departed Frank P. Mahony is
the only Australian artist I know who correctly
draws a swagman, his swag, billy, and all the
other wallaby paraphernalia. Mahony’s swaggies
are swaggies. Next to him comes Fred Leist
The swagmen of all the other artists I’ve seen
look like models dressed
and swagged-up for the
occasion. They’re the
ones the dailies and other
ignorant journals describe
as “swagsmt-n” with an
“s.” Let me tell artists
once more that swagmen
do not carry sticks ; that
not one out of 10,000
humps bluey horse-collar
fashion, or carries a bag
or bundle” in his hand.
Also that the swags and
tucker-bags do not hang
on the same shoulder.
Furthermore, that lids on
billies are the exception,
and spare boots are never
tied outside of the swag,
but rolled -up inside.
LONG JIM.
(The Wreck of the Traveller's
lietreat.)
[For The Bulletin.]
We’d made a lively start
away when “Alulga”
had “ cut-out
“ Big Mulga,” on the banks
of “ Sandy Blight ”
To catch ths mountain shear-
ing where theife wasn’t
any drought,
And skeeters wouldn't inur
der yoif'at night. ''
Our swags were Setting
heavier and wgi were
getting dry—
As dry as any parching
western plain— ,
When ’way on the horizon
we a humpy could espy-
“Apub, I- betj ” exclaimed
my mate, Bill Maybe.
When we got near enough to
where : the sigijboanl
could be read— ,
The signboard of “The
Traveller’s Retreat ”
The shanty seemed surrounded by the stillness of the
dead, ;
For not a living soul the eye could meet. j
The wood-and-water joey, with a blackened pair of eves-
As black as any nigger’s hide could be—
We found down on the wood-heap where he couldn’t
speak or rise.
“ Oh, let him rip ! ” said Mayne—“ he’s on the spree.”
But soon we dropped our bundles and began to ’vest*
gate—
Investigate and see the matter out—
When we found, unto our horror, close against a smashed-
up gate
Two swags torn up and scattered all about 1
Below the wrecked verandah-floor we found the owners,
too,
The owners of the swags in such a plight—
With shirts ripped-up, and speechless, and their bodies
bruised and blue.
“ It’s evident,” said Mayne, “ there's been a fight.”
To prime with rum our courage then, we stepped into the
bar—
The bar-room of the broken-up Retreat —
The sight that met our eyes there gave our nerves a nasty
jar,
And made U3 feel unsteady on our feet 1
The bar was smashed to pieces, and every bottle there,
Decanters, jugs and glasses, all were broke 1
Beneath the heap of wreckage we perceived some human
hair.
“ This is,” said Mayne, “ the shanty-keeper bloke.”
We fled into the parlor, where a silence reigned like
death—
The parlor where the cheque-men put on airs—
Just in time to find the “ missus ’’ perishing from lack of
breath
Beneath a ruined sofa and some chairs.
A splintered-up piano lay encumbering the scene,
A broken picture lay upon its face,
The keg of parlor brandy was a kicked-in “ dead marine.
“ Not a drop o’ drink,” said Mayne, “ left in the place.”
The bedrooms and the kitchen, too, were one unpleasant
wreck—
A wreck accomplished singularly neat—
The windows all were broken, and you couldn’t find a
speck
In that shanty there of furniture complete !
We stared about and wondered, when out through the
kitchen door
Came an apparition pallid and aghast;
’Twas the ginger-headed slavey, a-crawling on the floor.
“ Thank God 1 ” said Mayne, “ a living soul atdast 1 ”
We begged the ill-used female to inform us straightaway
Who this cruel and pernicious deed had done ;
She smiled, and slowly stammered: “Oh,‘Long Jim
was here to-day,
An’ knocked the place about a bit for fun.
Long Jim’s a decent cove,” said she, “ when ’e is on the
square,
An’ can shear more sheep than anyone round ’ere —
The fools, they contradicted ’im, a thing ’e can’t a-
bear.”
“ It’s time, I think,” said Mayne, “ for us to clear.”
Q-
GXS.
THE CASE OF C. E. WILLIAMS.
u «SK anyone in Kapunda, S.A., if they know C. E. Williams, and see what they’ll say,” said this hearty old
■ ■ miner. I V e lived there just on 50 years, and everybody can tell you how Dr. Williams' Pink Pills cured
hecran t fl ° C ° raotor Ata xia. In the copper mines you get wet to the skin, and this started my trouble. It
it drew an mv", GV6ry b ° ne in my body achin g- 1 thought at first it was Rheumatism, for
shot thfoLhmvT 0 63 T kn frbut soon 1 found 1 was crippled with Locomotor Ataxia. Lightning pains
knife rinJL 7 and ribs ’ and fchen m y sl S hfc be gan to go. The pains in my legs were like the sharp stabs of a
vears T$ P ” • n ® rves and muscles. It was just as if someone were pounding the life out of me. For two
. ... W SIC .P ay from m y Lodge, for I couldn’t do a stroke of work. You’d have pitied me trying to hobble
Sr N ?T7“ T ‘° °° Ver 300 *“*• H 1 miSSBd foot “ d do,™, there
got a tighte/erin of TT 1 1 C ° uldn,t lace m y boots or dress m y self - Evei 7 da y the Locomotor Ataxia
“ m. . g , P , , ] n la y all da y on a couch before the fire—an absolute cripple—and my whole health gave
how Dr
t \ Pmk Pills, by actually maUng new blood, had cured a man named Jarvis, in Sydney of this
locomotor Ata xl a after he had suffered for months. His sufferings tallied exactly with mine, so I started these
1 . ™ ry * rat box d,d me a ,ot ot g° od - Gradually the pains eased up, and I got back the full strength of
y ■ g . en the muscles of my back loosened—and by the time I took 16 boxes I was the healthy, active man
a , y ‘. W _boever says Locomotor Ataxia can’t be cured ought to have seen me before I was cured by
Dr. Williams Pmk Pills for Pale People.” y
%


FOR
AS GOOD FOR
WOMEN AS
FOR
MEN
3
3
1
IT BEGINS TO BRACE YOU AT ONCE
AND THE EFFECT IS LASTING.
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
$4 % “6‘ 4 *
- ‘3‘ 4% %
® 633‘ 8% §§ “c3 \§
4%“ 4‘84““
4% “% 4%“ 48' e .4
DUNLOP XMAS CHIMES
%«?
' nc/c r y ,
's e
®o»| n '*Ha'°Ur
"00, **•'
>w “
®»*/„
fes*
bffiv r }ik/i „ m
bSaSsSSS
<SL
-\ t
’o'*
v> < V°V ' *1 -
1
1 " , 'A*' J 'fV* _c<%
1 \flffcsK
c~
S.
4^fc»ci
*sC
tfx
J
■f «ir'*' r^-*aa'd ' v
- , ,
It S^jSowjjijwyJiS'
rttSsgjss^


Verses OF HTE BASH
[?]itten for the Bulletin
The Wide, Wide Plains.
O’ER a broad white waste extending to
horizons dim and black,
Showing miles before the swagman, lies
a never-ending track,
With no leafy tree to shade him that dull cares
might buried be
In a sweet siesta after he has boiled his quart of
tea.
Through hi« solitary wanderings the luck-forsaken
swain
Knoweth nothing half so bitter
As the endless hush and glitter
On the lone and dreary journey ’cross a wide,
wide plain.
There he sees the white grass shimmer ’neath the
sun’s midsummer light,
And visions of cool waters chase each other into
night.
’Gainst the closing dome above him not a speck
of white or black,
But cerulean everlasting, and a dazzle up the
track ;
Then the care-worn mind goes wandering off to
dallying days of rain—
To the croon of flowing fountains,
Shooting streams down mossy mountains,
On that dry, heart-breaking journey ’cross the
wide, wide plain.
Oft he views the distant lignum through the
palpitating glare ;
In his heart a prayer unspoken : “ Would to God
that I was there ! ”
Far ahead the spectral cattle up in mid-air seem
to be,
And weird sheep, that look like camels, float across
a ghostly sea,
Where the water-craving traveller may for liquid
look in vain;
Where the carrion crows are crying,
Amj the new-born lambs are dying—
On the never-shaded tracks across the wide, wide
plain.
Where the night is never brightened with the
• cheering tongues of fire,
Man’s assiduous memory caters to a hungry heart’s
desire;
Where the half-forgotten rises as the vivid mind
revolves,
Forming riddle after riddle that the After never
solves;
Where the precepts old and golden that by
Plenitude were slain
Are reborn and nursed in sorrow,
To be honored on the morrow,
When the searing journey’s ended on the wide,
wide plain.
Those who follow in the footsteps of the brave old
pioneers
Well may wonder at the perils that were faoed in
early years,
When the bank of gums they steered for was an
unknown wilderness,
Where a black man’s spear or nulla was the usual
night’s caress.
There, perhaps, a prayer is wafted from lone
hearts that wait in vain,
For a sweetheart, son or brother,
Far away from home and mother,
Sleeping long the sleep eternal on the wide, wide
plain. |
N.S.W,
EDWARD S. SORENSON.
Boundary-Riding.
AS you ride around your paddock
With a forked stick on your arm,
While the quart pot jingles gaily
And the flies around you swarm,
You will build some airy castles
To your noddy’s ambling gait—
Airy, fairy towers and turrets
With your name above the gate—
Writ in letters vast and wide,
Golden with the gold of pride.
As you leave the hut at sunrise,
You can see the dawn of fame
Where the red east lies before you
Decked with streaming locks of flame.
Then the sun mounts slowly higher ;
Thoughts of greatness die away,
And you dream of ferns and gardens
Near some cool and shaded bay.
And you’ll gather in the hay,
While your children round you play.
Just at midday, boil the quart-pot,
Make the tea and have a snack;
Slowly fill your pipe and light it ;
Half-an hour upon your back.
Now your thoughts go flying townwards,
Fair-haired girls and lofty beers;
And you’ll make up love proposals,
That no woman ever hears.
Dream here slowly, dream with care,
Dreams of women are your share.
Once more in the burning saddle,
Twenty miles in half a day ;
Forty miles for three and fourpence,
That’s a boundary rider’s pay.
Pass a broken wire with curses.
Not ashamed the job to shirk ;
“ Why on earth don’t he pay fencers?
Mending fences ain’t my work. ”
And you’ll go on riding, cursing,
Wild and hitter thoughts you're nursing.
Now the neddy stumbles badly.
Snap ! a stirrup broke in twain,
And you waken from a doze, and
Realise that fence again.
Fifteen miles ’twixt now and sundown,
And your back is fit to break ;
Nine hours in a red-hot saddle,
With a sun that’s fit to bake.
Boundary-riding’ snot a picnic; three and fourpence
is the pay.
Forty miles for three and fourpence; that’s a boun-
. dary-rider’s day.
As the blazing sun sinks westwards,
So your hopes and spirits sink.
“ God Almighty ! what’s my life worth,”
Boundary-riders often think.
As the mulga shadows lengthen,
Thoughts, despondent, come to you,
And yourself you now are cursing,
Cursing long, and cursing blue.
And your brain gets duller daily,
As the quart-pot jingles gaily.
Back at camp you quit your dreaming;
No more time to dream or hope ;
Ants are in the golden syrup,
And the crows have got the soap.
P’r’aps the cat has gnawed the meat-bag,
Blowflies buzzing through the tear.
That’s the boundary-ridpr s programme ;
That’s the way he learns to swear.
And he drops to slumber deep,
Riding fences in his sleep.
N.S.W.
BALM-OBAL.
Rainbow in the Yard.
THERE came a knock at Greyson’s door one
stormy winter’s night,
And Greyson flung the bolts across and
peered into the gloom ;
A woman, drenched and shivering, with face of
deathly white,
Came stumbling up, and caught his hand, and
reeled into the room.
“My husband’s sick to death,” she said; “my
sons are all away;
For God’s sake get the doctor here before the
break o’ day ! ”
Jim Greyson, only home that night from droving
months on end,
Had ridden fifty miles since dawn his wife and
weans to see,
But Greyson’s heart was royal gold and Dick was
Greyson’s friend,
And one thought only filled his mind —“ He’d do
the same for me ! ”
He took his bridle from the wall—outside the rain
lashed hard—
And “ Missus, don’t you fret !” he said; “ old
Rainbow’s in the yard ! ”
The old horse heard the top-rail click and whinnied
soft and low,
And stepped across the muddy yard and nuzzled
for the bit;
For all the storms of earth may drive and every
wind may blow,
But Rainbow and his master know the hour to
prove their grit.
The Lachlan ran from bank to bank, a silver
barrier drawn,
But Rainbow crossed it In the dark and onoe
again ere dawn.
Red drought or flood may wrap the plains, and
nags be thin and weak,
But in the land of loyal help there’s no one knocks
in vain;
There’s always some great bushman-heart to
answer when you speak,
To take the snaffle-bridle down and face the drift-
ing rain.
There’s never woodland path so blind, nor moun-
tain track so hard
But there’s a man to follow it when Rainbow’s in
the yard !
Our land’s a land of many fates, of pluck and
trouble met,
Of leagues of aching loneliness, where fence from
fence is far;
But where the greatest need is born the stoutest
arm is set,
And where the longest miles are laid God knows
the best men are :
And when the storm is at its worst and night
most darkly starred
’T is then you’ll find the ready heart and Rainbow
in the yard!
SCOTLAND.
WILL H. OGILVIE.
The Clock.
THAT blamed old clock kep’ me awake mos’
all Jars’ night
Waggin’ its long-tail penjulum an’ talkin’
to itself.
I’ll git up when I’m warmed agin—and sich a
sight
Ez thet ole clock won’t ever be ez sets upon that
shelf.
I’ll pull its inside out, an’ all its shiny springs
An’things; I’ll give it “one-two” on its soley-
plexus fair;
I’ll make it healthy fer thet consamed bell that
tings
At every show it gits to send me h’istin’ up my
hair.
I ain’t so easy fussed ez some more smiley folk
I don’ mind Jessie snorin’, an’ I’m used ter
Towser’s yelp;
I ain’t so very slow in seein’ wot’s a joke,
But I’ll git up in the mornin’ ef that clock wants
any help.
Jessie’s gone ter Sydney ter stop Good-Fridee-
week,
An’, here, it’s very lonesome, an’ I dunno how I’d
stay
Ef it wuzn’t fer the clock with its “ teek, teek
teek ”; ’
It’s kump’ny, I can tell you, when Jessie is away.
N.B.W.
HUGH M'CRAK.
The Drover’s Wife.
BY the droning mountain-waters, in the
Spring-time of her life,
On her little Tambo holding, lives the
Western drover’s wife;
And at evening, by the river, when her bit of work
is done,
You may often hear her singing to the setting of
the sun—
I am waiting for my drover,
For my drover laddie Jack;
am waiting for my lover
To come down the homeward track.
And my heart for him is yearning,
And my cheeks are all aglow,
For the day of his returning
We’ll a-honeymooninggo.
Oh ! the poddies know her footsteps and the
horses know her call,
And the lambs go frisking with her to the foaming
waterfall;
And it’s fun to see the turkeys stretch their necks
as if to hear,
When she’s singing down the river and she thinks
there’s no one near.
Ah! she told him in the starlight, when her
blushes didn’t show,
She was glad she wed a drover, for each trip he
had to go
Meant another home-returning and another honey-
moon,
Which is just the inspiration of that Tambo river
tune—
I am waiting for my drover,
For my drover laddie Jack;
I am waiting for my lover
To come down the homeward track
And my heart for him is yearning,
And my cheeks are all aglow,
For the day of his returning
We’ll a-honeymooning go.
vio.
MILKY WHITE
Song of a Belated September.
THE wild birds are singing; the wild flowers
are springing
And mingling their perfumes to sweeten
the air;
All Nature is voicing a song of rejoicing
And putting on raiment chaste, brilliant, and
fair.
Ten years last September, and well I remember
The humming of bees in the sturdy old gum;
And someone so tearful, and blushing, and fearful,
At thought of the long separation to come.
And pointing above me I swore : “If you love
me,
I’ll come when this tree is in blossom next year;
Let it be my witness! ” O, Fate! with what
fitness
Thou sometimes attendest a promise sincere !
The summer’s fierce lightning that tree left a-
whitening.
And perjury still is a stranger to me ;
But whether it grieved her, or only relieved her,
I’m sure I can’t say,—for she married Ah Chee !
VIC.
Ben Sun.
Vi
m
m
'"v
MKT
£
N
THEY TOUCH THE LltfEß
As no other Remedy does.
Dr. Morse’s
INDIAN ROOT PILLS
Are an unfailing and infallible cure for all complaints arising from a disordered
Liver. They make the Stomach clean and the Blood pure by driving all
poisonous humours out through the natural channel.
Read what the Rev. Thomas B. Swift, Alexandria, Victoria, an aged
Clergyman, thinks of DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS
“I heave been a preacher of the gospel for fifty-two years, and am now in pay
eighty-first year. I suffered for a long time from costiveness, and consequent
indigestion. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills were brought under my notice some
two years ago. I took one pill every evening, and soon under that method my
costiveness and indigestion were relieved, and my bowels as regular as the
morning. They assist Nature in the discharge of all her functions, increase the
appetite, produce sound sleep, and give elasticity of spirits. I always preach
three times on the Sundays, and drive long distances to my appointments. I
enjoy life and the Lord’s work, to which he called me more than fifty years ago.
DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS are a positive and per-
manent cure for Biliousness, Indigestion, Constipation, Headaches, Sallow
Complexion, Liver and Kidney Troubles, Piles, Pimples, Boils and Blotches,
and for Female Ailments. Sold by Chemists and Storekeepers, Price, 1/1 £ per
Bottle, or Six Bottles, 6/6. Packed in Amber Bottles, and the full name blown
thereon.


We are actual Chain makers. Direct from Factory to Wearer. No inter-
mediate profits. Solid Gold Chains range from 50s to £lO.
Solid Gold Muff Chains,
25s to £5.
Solid Gold Photo Pendant,
full size, 16s;
others from 6s 6d to £5 6s.
Solid Silver Hair Brush,
large size, 10s 6d.
15ct Gold, Choice Pearls
or Turquoises, 465.
mSaS
-J
Solid Gold Links, 15s pair.
Sapphires and Diamonds,
18ct, £6 os.
Solid Silver Mounts, various
designs, 4s 6d and 5s 6d.
15ct Gold, whole Pearls &
Turquoise, large size, 32/6
Tie Clips, with Turquoise
or Pearl, 8s 6d pair.
/A '
1
The Lady's
"Fx. & R.”
Watch,
at £6 6s*
|J? a Lever. Has 15 Jewels. Has a Ruby Roller Jewel.
Has solid, heavy 14ct. Gold Case. Has Brequet Hair Spring.
I Has Compensated and Adjusted Balance.
Is guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in order for two years
(breakages excepted) without charge.
Will stand hard riding and knocking about.
Is made in every style of case. Goes with profound accuracy.
Lady’s O.F. Metal Case, 40s; Lady’s O.F. Silver Case, 50s
Solid Silver Card
Case, 22s 6d ;
to open at side,
395.
15ct, witli
Diamond,
25s 6d.
Choice Pearls,
Opals, or
Turquoises,
set in Gold,
16ct Gold, with
Choice Pearls,
23s 6ii.
Silvi r \ use,
10s <3d.
Hair Pin Bottle, Silver Top,
Out Glass, 4/6 ; others, 1/6, 3/6
Silver Match Boxes,
from 5a (3d to 12s (3d.
Solid Silver Sovereign
Box, hold 5 flovs., 7i 6d
3 Exquisite Diamonds and
1 Sapphire, £0 15s.
Choice Whole Pearl
Brooch, our own mak«,
15et Gold, 46a.
TT3
Genuine Crocodile Skin
Purse und Onrd Case,
Solid Silver Mounts, 5/0
18ct, all Diamonds,
£6 ,os. We dut the
diamonds from the
rough. We make our
o vii Rings.
18ct, with Diamonds
£8 8fl«
Solid Silver Shoe Lift, 7i»., 3s 6d : Glove Fortner, Is ;
Rut ton Fastener 2s fl<|.
Choice Diamonds,
£lO.
Fairfax & Roberts,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney , .
23 Hunter St., Sydney.
Extract from “The Commercial
World,” London, dated Ist Sep-
tember, 1903.
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society.
IF regarded solely as a register of all round
progress and prosperity, the report of this
flourishing society for the year 1902 is of
such a nature as to warrant the members
being fully satisfied. As a matter of fact, how-
ever, the current report has an enhanced im-
portance entirely distinct from its record of a
single twelve months’ operations. We refer to
the fact that the present document is the third of
a series of reports setting forth steadily pro-
gressive advancement in combination with in-
creased efficiency and its concomitant economy.
Consequently it may safely be assumed that the
valuesof individual contracts are being augmented,
which is only another way of stating that future
bonus prospects are materially brightened by the
facts and figures now published. And, as success
breeds success, we take it, that looking at the situ-
ation broadly there never was a time in the
history of the Society when it could place its
claims for support before a discerning public with
better prospects of acceptance than at present.
• * * *
The new business actually completed under
3006 policies was £787,720, carrying new premiums
of £29,910, as compared with 2927 policies assuring
£741,034 and £26,319 of new premiums in the year
1901, these latter totals, as already indicated, sub-
stantially exceeding the corresponding items in
Khe year 1900. Comparing the year 1901 with
1902 we find a material advance in the renewal
premiums—the figures being £287,939 in the
earlier year, as against £293,737 in the latter—
while the total premium income in 1901 was
£313,651, and in 1902 £323,758, showing an
advance of no less than £10,107. Concurrently
there was an increase in the interest receipts
of nearly £6OOO, the earnings from this source in
1902 amounting to £105,157. In this connection
it is important to note that during recent years
the rate of interest on the invested funds has been
steadily improved, the earnings from this source
last year working out at £4 3s. lOd. per cent.
Looking to the amount added to the funds last
year—£llo,96o—it is obvious that the new invest-
ments are being placed at a considerably higher
rate of interest than that derived from the older
investments, a circumstance which, it is scarcely
necessary to point out, is opposed to the general
experience. Inasmuch, however, as this is one of
the features of the management from which the
members must inevitably derive future benefit,
the point is one well worthy of particular note.
The claims for the past year denote an average
experience, payments to the representatives of
deceased policy-holders amounting to £126,953; to
living policy-holders, under the head of endow-
ments matured, £65,688 was paid; while under the
various headings of surrenders and endowment
premiums returned, advances redeemed by sur-
render, annuities, amount paid in respect of
Tontine policies on expiry of term, and bonuses
paid in cash, total payments were made to the
extent of £33,872. The liberal features attached
to the Society’s policies are strongly indicated
in the magnitude of this last mentioned item of
outgo, a circumstance most desirable to remember
in view of the fact that life assurance societies
are distributors of money as well as collectors,
and efficiency in the one regard is quite as
important as efficiency in the other.
As previously mentioned, the expenses again
show a relative decrease, a movement likely to be
accentuated now that the Society’s business is
making all-round ad vancement. One of the effects
of this increased eeomony is to augment the
amount available for addition to the funds, this,
in the past year, notwithstanding that no less
than £226,512 was paid to policyholders and their
representatives, reaching the large sum of £110,960,
and thereby increasing the amount of the accumu-
lations to £2,706,830, inclusive of the investment
fluctuation fund of £85,967. When it is borne in
mind that the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society was not established until the year 1873,
the present amount of the accumulations which
has, it need scarcely be said, not been swollen in
any way by shareholders’ contributions, is not the
least noteworty feature of a report which ranks
high among the best ever yet presented by this
enterprising and successful Society.
Extract from “The Insurance
Spectator of London,” dated
August 1, 1903.
HE report of the directors of the Colonial
Mutual Life Assurance Society again
shows a considerable extension in the
volume of the Society’s new business.
The directors’ statement itself summarises the
position, as set out in the official figures, in a few
words: “A larger new business, an increased
premium income, a higher rate of interest earned
on investments, a greater increase in funds, and a
lower expense ratio.” In these comparatively few
words we have tersely set out the chief favorable
features to be looked for in a satisfactory report by
a progressive life assurance company.
In the record before us we find that the new
sums assured by policies issued in the past year
are £46,000 more than those of 1001, the new pre-
miums are greater by £8854 than the correspond-
ing figure of the previous year, whilst the renewal
premium income has been increased by nearly
six thousand pounds. With the augmented
interest income the Society thus has an increased
income of over ten thousand pounds per annum.
The claims by death involved payments of sums
considerably less than the amount anticipated by
the actuarial calculations. At the same time the
smallness of the amounts paid for the surrender
of policies—these payments being on a liberal
scale—is evidence of the permanent character of
the business which is being placed on the Com-
pany’s books.
The Society’s operations for the year resulted
in greater gain of business than that of any other
year for the past eleven years. The business in
force at the end of the year amounted to over ten-
and-a-half millions sterling, with a premium
income of £330,000. The new policies issued
exceeded three thousand in number and three-
quarters-of-a-million (£787,720) in sums assured.
• • • •
Whilst fluctuations in the volume of new
business obtained from different districts has
been marked, owing to variations in the pros-
perity of the individual colonies, the wide area
over which the Company conducts business has
secured an average of increasing prosperity. The
Colonial Mutual is now so firmly established and
so highly esteemed that the prosperity whioh
leading financial men regard as certain in the near
future for Australia must aid the further develop-
ment of the Company’s business and secure its
increased prosperity.
Of the total assurance contracts which the
Company has entered into, rather more than
half have been secured in the second half of the
Company’s existence, that is, in the last fourteen
years. In the last twelve years the funds of the
Company have been considerably more than
doubled. In 1890 they stood at just under twelve
hundred thousand pounds, whereas at the close of
1902 the total was nearly two-millions-and-three-
quarters sterling (£2,706,829).
In each of the last two years more than one
hundred thousand pounds has been added to the
assurance fund, the addition of 1901 being
£103,879, and that of last year £110,960.
The rate of interest yielded by these funds
shows an increase on what it was a year earlier,
being £4 3s. lOd. per cent., as compared with £4
2s. 9d. This increase has been secured without
any departure from the established policy of the
Company in its investment matters. The Com-
pany maintains in a liquid form a somewhat large
proportion of its funds. The cash at the bank, on
deposit, and current account is even larger than
it was, amounting to nearly two hundred and
twenty thousand pounds, but a portion of this
will no doubt be permanently invested when
favorable opportunities offer. During the year
there has been an increase in the total of the
Government and other debentures held by the
Company, and a further fifty thousand pounds has
been loaned on mortgages.
The Colonial Mutual possesses the energy of
youth which pervades the Australian Colonies,
and has been able to adopt the most valuable
features of modern life assurance contracts grafted
on to the strong financial position worthy of a
British life office.
Extract from the 44 City Leader,”
London, Dated Bth August, 1903.
THE annual report of The Colonial Mutual
Life Assurance Society is satisfactory in
every detail. The proposals dealt with
again top the million, the figures reaohing
£1,086,101. The new policies issued numbered
3000. The new premium income has increased by
£4308 and showed an increase on the 1900 figures
of £8853. The yield in the form of interest has
increased by some £6OOO, making the total re
venue from that source ill 05,156. The rate
whioh last year showed an increase on the pre-
vious one again shows an increase. Seeing that
the valuation rate of the Society is now 3it percent.,
the interest earned shows a very substantial
margin. This return is indeed highly creditable,
seeing that the directors steadily place security
before interest. A large proportion of the invest-
ments are of a thoroughly liquid character. The
Society’s operations for the year show a greater
gain of business than any other year for the past
eleven years—the business in force at the end of
the year amounting to over ten and a half millions
—with a premium income of over £333,000. The
claims by death were considerably less than the
amount provided for by the tables of mortality
upon which the Society’s premiums are based.
The small amount paid away for policies surren-
dered is evidence of the steadfastness of policy-
holders in maintaining their membership and
proof of their confidence in the institution.
The Colonial Mutual has adopted in its consti-
tution such features as have been developed by
modern science, and have proved to be practically
beneficial. The premiums are moderate, combin-
ing the benefits of the moderate premiums of the
proprietary system with the full participation in
profits of the mutual plan. The absence of re-
strictions as to travelling, foreign residence, and
occupation, and the special provision as to non-
forfeiture, together with immediate payment of
claims, render the policies of the society perfect
legal securities, and, therefore, peculiarly eligible
for the protection of contracts such as marriage
settlements, loans, Ac.
.‘1 _" 5 V. .533 ‘.
3:9‘1'ﬁi‘4/"7i—Z'i‘v‘3fﬁ7'"
:77 f. 1“)".ij 1 , ,
1‘ , w?” ,: f’
1111111 1
”7 $919431; \‘grv‘ii-‘R'illsfbfié5:!“1329 '1'“! 1 M
‘ {Li-m" '."Mu‘mnChJ11W.‘ 5.9;" —
51.1 11! 13-1-31.
":_HS‘Q.) ,{ﬂ‘erhl » ‘ 1* "3:41.: ‘
]{ "\9i- :\ ’1 ‘ . V '1" '7;.".~_‘;-;§-_"i“:::::'-2$:~3' '
.1 ; 124;: a ‘ . an?» ...»;:e-‘-",_,;gﬁ'-"'f
\ _1 3 ' ‘tl' I '(..1"“YLV, ,. ‘
T 3 1“ 1 ' ' " 1~<rl§:"' ;: '
.‘IIV‘:\\ ,L ‘,-‘ ,‘1,’ _ ;I K i
. M "51.. "\ ' 5.x" ‘ :7 711-1111“: " 'H
. - -_\. ’1‘“. L41“ ,
, -J :an D")
l 1' V V
Smith
Premier
“ Improvement, the Order of the Age."
Australia’s Favorite Typewriter.
200,000 in Daily Use.
Used by the leading Commercial and
Legal Firms of the Commonwealth,
and throughout the Government
Departments of Australia.
Adopted by the Police Courts of New South AVales.
Adopted by the Eleclric Telegraph Department of New South Wales.
Adopted by the Electric Telegraph Department of Queensland.
Adopled by the Railway Department of Queensland.
Adopted by Messrs. Lassetter & Co., Ltd., Sydney. The largest
commercial users of Typewriters in the Southern Hemisphere.
The Austrian Ministry of
Justice uses
1200 SMITH PREMIERS.
Investigate thoroughly before you purchase a Typewriter. The Smith Premier will merit your approval,
as it fully meets requirements at every point. The Smith Premier Typewriter is the most durable, the
simplest to learn, and the least liable to get out of order of any writing machine manufactured.
FISHER and LINGHAM, FOR AUSTRALIA,
(W. E. FISHER.)
2 and 3 VICTORIA ARCADE (Opp. Australia Hotel), SYDNEY
* lN \
excelsior


Penfold’s
WINES
A beautifully finished willow hamper, tastefully
packed with ONE DOZEN high-class assorted
WINES, is this season being sold at prices
as under: —
No. l--30s.
2 Bottles INVALID PORT J Bottle CHABLIS
1 „ TAWNY „ 1 „ BURGUNDY
2 „ GOLDEN SHERRY I „ BROWN MUSCATEL
2 „ No. 0 CLARET I FRONTIGNAC
1 Bottle ROYAL TOKAY.
No. 2—2 ss.
2 Bottles RICH PORT
2 „ I SHERRY
2 „ No. 0 CLARET
2 „ CHABLIS
1 Bottle BURGUNDY
1 „ TOKAY
I „ RICH CONSTANTIA
1 „ MUSCADINE
Both above assortments may be altered to choice.
No more acceptable or appropriate XMAS PRESENT could be found.
Ask your wine merchant for one, or write us direct, enclosing
remittance, when we will forward through our nearest agent.
PENFOLD & CO.,
SYDNEY OFFICE
and CELLARS:
84 Pitt St.
QUEENSLAND
CANNING COMPANY
CANNON
BRAND
Manufacturers of the Celebrated
t CANNON BRAND J
—OF—
JAMS, JELLIES, MARMALADES,
CANNED FRUITS,
TOMATO RELISH, and
OX TOMATO SAUCE.
SPECIAL NOTE.—The tops and bottoms of our tins are fitted without
the use of any solder, thus avoiding all risk of LEAD POISONING.
We are the ONLY FIRM of Jam Manufacturers in Queensland
making and using these tins.
Gill-Birds.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHAT could have possessed me to do it
Ido not know. Nevertheless, it is a
fact that I not only awoke on Friday
morning, sth June, 1903, at 6.30, but I
also went outside to look at the morning. The
morning was there all right. But, chancing to
look upwards, I beheld the sky covered with gill-
birds, flying westward. I counted them. Five
hundred millions ! I give the exact figures in
order to show, firstly, how many there were;
secondly, to prevent anyone in future asking me
the circulation of the various Sydney papers. The
five hundred millions is an index of what I can do
when I am put to it.
I had a gun, a game-bag and cartridges. But
these were of no use unless I was within 40 yards
or less of the gill-birds. I had watched the birds
disappear like specks upon the horizon. I couldn’t
get anybody to shift the horizon within 40 yards
of me. My neighbor’s horse ! My neighbor had
gone away on a holiday, and had asked me to give
an eye to his horse. I couldn’t do that if I left
the locality for a whole day. But I could do it
very well if I took the horse with me. Being of
excellent character, I began to reflect, however,
whether this was an honorable thing to do. In-
trospection quickly showed me that I was begin-
ning to covet the horse. As we are strictly
commanded by Moses not to covet our neighbor’s
horse, I decided to take the horse, in order that I
should not commit the sin of covetousness.
At 8.30, having covered some 15 miles in a little
over an hour, I topped a big iron-bark ridge, I
stopped to breathe the horse. I listened. Sure
enough those were gill-birds squawking some
three or four hundred yards on my left. I dis-
mounted. I tied the horse up with the aid of a
halter to a strong tree. Iso tied him that he
should be looking through the bridle and still
standing on the same bit of ground when I re-
turned. Unless he chose to take a hundred foot
ironbark sapling with him.
I entered the bush. I made for the gill-birds.
I reached their tree. I shot the pair of them. I
bagged them. I listened. Parrots were screech-
ing a quarter-mile away. Most likely gill-birds
would be in the blossoms with the parrots. I
hurried on. I had gone about 200 yards when I
saw a dark-skinned woman armed with a gun
making towards me. Behind the woman came a
big girl carrying a bull-dog. Behind the girl came
a boy with a powder-flask and a bottle full of buck-
shot. Behind the boy came a girl of seven drag-
ging a poker by a piece of string. And the rear-
guard was formed by three large kangaroo dogs
which yawned expectantly. The whole squadron
bore down upon me as a pirate fleet might bear
down upon a schooner.
The woman said in a voice such as Jack the
Ripper might have possessed: “There’s no
shooting here.” I stood. She levelled her gun
at me. The bull-dog, understanding the situa-
tion, wriggled from the arms of the big girl, took
me in the rear, and sunk his teeth into my calf.
Just in fun. I cried with aloud voice—“ Woman !
my fellow-voter! if you destroy me you will
destroy the only moral man connected with the
Australian press.” She let the butt of her gun
fall to the ground. She exclaimed, “ A news-
paper man—and moral ! ”
Gradually the idea got full hold upon her. She
fought it; but unavailingly. The awful incon-
gruity got inside her brain. It hypnotised her.
It convulsed her. It started all the bolts and
screws of her iron constitution. It broke her
asunder, and split her up like matches, and
spilled her all over the ground. She lay peaceful,
defeated, inert. Such is the power of an idea
fired in without warning at the proper moment.
I addressed myself to the girl: “Are there any
more gill-birds about here ? ” She answered :
“No ! there are no snakes for them to live on.”
“ I never heard of gill-birds living on snakes,” I
remarked. She answered : “ Who ever heard of
a newspaper man knowing anything ? ” The boy
spoke: “Look here, mister, we don’t ’ave no
shootin’ in ’ere. You’ll ’ave to get. If you’re
after gill-birds, I’ll tell you where to go. Go
straight ahead till you come to the road, keep
along the road till you come to our slip-rails, turn
off then to the left, and follow the track. There
are five or six tracks. You’ll ’ave to trust to your
luck in pickin’ the right one.”
I had not gone far along one of the tracks before
I met a beautiful blue-eyed maiden. She was not
more than eight years old, and, in the language of
the poet, “her beauty made me glad.” She was
one of those rare children of nature that instantly
bring you to the conclusion that the lady is born,
not made—that the instinct to be gentle and
courteous is far superior to the discipline of train-
ing and education. I raised my hat to this sweet
little lady, and inquired, “Are there any gill-
birds about here?” She answered: “If you
weren’t a blanky fool, you’d know that theblanky
gully is full of ’em.”
* * * *
Following the direction of her finger I came to
a gully red with the red blossoms of the ironbark.
Round the blossoms the gill-birds swarmed like
bees. Sixty-five of them flew out of one blossom
and settled on a dry limb. I shot 32J with
my first barrel, and 32| with my second. (This
statement is false.) At the end of two hours I had
bagged 729 and lost LB3 in the scrub. (Hopelessly
false.) I joyfully returned to my horse. The
fence was there. The post was there. So was
the halter and the marks that the knife had made
upon it. I was fifteen miles away from home. I
sat down ; I said (The rest of the narrative
is unfit for publication.)
S. A. MILLS.
“Milky White”’ Re Melbourne news-
paper reports of a man taking to a stone diet, and
having 160 boulders removed from his stomach at
one fell swoop. Once knew a deranged inhabi-
tant in the West who struck the rather original
idea that his soul was a sort of white-robed, wing-
less being that inhabited his innards and lived
there much as he lived himself. One day he
thought it would be an act of kindly consideration
to give this soul of his a feed in up-to-date style.
He started off by breaking a plate and swallowing
the pieces ; then he got away with two bottles of
liquid cement for the soul to mend the plate with,
a fork, a knife and a spoon, and he was just about
to swallow a serviette and a chair and dining-
table when the diet disagreed with him. He
died and an autopsy was held. The operating
doctor found that the soul had mended the plate,
and, with knife and fork in hand, was calling for
steak and oysters—at least he would have, had he
been as big a liar as some people I know.
The Prodigal.
[For The Bulletin.]
WHEN the sun was sinking low
In the West long years ago,
From the homestead on the hill
On the world for good or ill,
Ere his life had well begun
Forth they heaved the Worthless Son.
Through the dust the outcast fled
Forth to earn his daily bread ;
Hurried out to seek a crust,
As his father said he must.
Afterwards he wrote that “ they
Would repent of it some day.”
Never did they mention him.
People asked them— “ Heard from .Jim?”
Dad would merely shake his head,
Jim was just as good as dead.
Family forgot his name,
Farm work went on just the same.
After years a stranger strode
To the slip-rails on the road.
He was dressed in fancy clothes,
Mother muttered, “Heaven knows
Who it is ! ” But Dad looked grim.
“ Looks t’ me like that dam Jim ! ”
Then they asked him in, and he
Ate their scones and drank their tea,
Whilst he told them how he’d made
Thousands in the building trade.
Dad sat in the chimney seat,
Wond’ring how much more he’d eat.
Afterwards, when he had done,
Forth to view the setting sun,
And to yarn awhile and smoke
Where the bull-frogs used to croak,
Dad and Jim strolled side by side—
Mother, in the kitchen, cried.
That was years ago—and Jim ?
No one ever talks of him.
There is a tradition he
Asked the old man after tea,
By the damp and lonely creek,
For a fiver for a week !
That accounts for what we saw,
From the mortgaged homestead door,
On that most eventful night
When Jim took again to flight,
And the old man with his gun
Strove to slay the Fatted Son.
VIO.
Kodak.
“ Lando ” : Settlers on the sandhilly—
and consequently scrubby—portions of the
Gwydir electorate fared better in the late drought
than did those living on the black soil plains.
Many of these last went bung altogether, and
had to chuck up their holdings and travel the
remnant of their stock, while the “scrubbers”—
as plains people contemptuously term them—
managed to worry through. Many of the plains
people were glad to loaf on the scrubbers’ leases,
and—still with unmitigated contempt—deigned to
eat them out root and branch. For, you see,
when the plains people do get a good season,
everything is very fine and large and magnificent,
while the scrub dwellers never achieve anything
very great in that way. And such is life—in the
bush as it is in the cities. Lower down, a
shearer looks down on a rouseabout. A station-
hand looks down on a swaginan. A swagman
looks down on a man without a swag. A man
without a swag looks down on a blaekfellow. A
blackfellow looks down on a Chinaman. A
Chinaman with a tail looks down on a Chinaman
without one. And a Chinaman without a tail
looks down on a leper. It is not known what a
leper looks down on. Presumably an importer.
“Tourmaline,” on the subject of John-
son’s Goat:—
Our nule township of Boggy Flat is at best a dull hole,
hut the inhabitants were lately stirred to unwonted ex-
citement. Johnson’s bill-goat, which has a bad record of
long standing, nearly killed Mrs. Hill’s baby. This final
offence so worked on the minds of the inhabitants that a
mass meeting was called, and the speeches were so in-
flammatory that the death of the goat was decided upon.
The whole male population turned out armed with
bottles, stones and pick-handles. After two hours
search the goat was seen coming out of Paddy Ayers’ tin-
and-bag residence with most of Paddy’s groceries in his
mouth and Paddy’s flour-bag on one horn. Furious at
this further outrage on Property, the crowd charged.
Johnson’s goat merely viewed the demonstration with
surprise and breathed flour out of his nose, till a shower
of stones warned him that hostilities had commenced.
He expressed his regret at the unfriendly attitude of the
town, and as he turned to flee a bottle struck him on tne
port side, causing him to turn two complete somersaults.
Then he said “Baa” in a loud voice and left in haste,
the mass meeting flying in his wake. He took a nortn-
easterly course past the mine-manager s house an
towards Mackintosh’s, leaving Simpson’s on his left, R
soon varying his direction he made through Smith s gar-
den, took a short cut at the back of Ferguson s nous ,
and round by O’Toole’s, and then skilfully avoidi g
Brown’s place, he breasted the ridge, and took to t
open country. So far the meeting had not gained mu
upon him, and going up the ridge eight people dropp
down winded, and were left behind. Their ®PP?y s . _
the crowd to wait for them were unheeded. At the t p
of the ridge Briggs just missed the goat with a pi -
handle, but the animal gained on the down-grade,
got out of range. Several good bottles were waste
futile long shots. Eight miscellaneous dogs J olo ®,. ’
but failed to overtake Johnson’s flying goat, thougn l .
yapped manfully in the procession. After this t
wasn’t much change in the programme for half-an-n >
but going up the fourth ridge, with the goat n ■
ing straight for Bora Creek, Ryan’s kangaro> B
joined in the chase, and then the odds turned ag ,
the goat. Half-a-dozen times the kangaroo dog range
up abreast of William, and though the latter 0 i s
smartly he lost a mouthful of hair each time, t
became-partially bald and the mouth of Ryan s sag .
dog was full of hair. By this time, the crowd was closing
up (43 people had dropped down exhausted, but , „- fh : n
were still running strong), and Bill Hicks got
brick range. He threw his weapon, and knocke
Ryan’s dog. The other dogs fell over it, and it g_ __
and fought the other dogs, and by the time the p
was resumed Johnson’s goat was half-a-nnle an
going towards the river. By this time he had 0 PP
all the remains of Paddy Ayers’ groceries o f.
mouth, and settled down to business. Three-quarl ,
an-hour’shard running brought the remnant of th
and Ryan’s dog again almost up to the goat. Ju- ...
Jim Billings appeared, coming up from the river . k a
gun, and, taking in the situation at a glance, he
careful aim at Johnson’s goat and shot Ryan s> “Of? ,jj
Bill Hicks fell over the remains of the dog, and as n
threw his pick-handle desperately at Johnsons g '- ,
struck Jim Billings, and he dropped heavily. Johns
goat ran over him, and vanished in the distance.


The Grail.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ And others came , desires and adorations,
Wing’d persuasions, and veiled destinies ;
Splendors and glooms and glimmering incarnations
Of hopes and fears and twilight phantasies.”
Adonais.
chaffron’d steed, nor barded; nor lance,
I nor sword, nor shield,
' Nor hope of holy wonder,
Heaven’s curtain rent asunder,
And beatific vision of the Holy Grail revealed.
But a Jack Shea on the saddle, and the hobbles
t’other side,
And the packer of the camper
With blankets, fly and damper,
And grass and firewood plenty; and, thank God,
the world is wide.
Thank God the world is wide, yes; and from
wider space beyond
Come visionary greeting,
Sadness keen and rapture fleeting,
To which vibrant chords of passion from our
inmost souls respond.
(Drag the handy logs together ! green or dry it
matters none ;
Rig the fly to windward rightly !
Thus our home’s completed nightly,
And uplifted, and far shifted with the morrow's
rising sun.)
Sun is set to-night, and slowly lights the star the
angels love—
Lonely Hesper in her splendor,
All immaculate and tender,
O’er the violet bar and saffron, in the sapphire
space above.
(Curse the ants and flies that linger 1 They will
hardly give it best
When the bullfrog starts a-drumming,
And the ’squito fiend a-humming,
And the lone and lonesome camper knows there’s
little chanoe of rest.)
And the angels come with Hesper; as she glows
they earthward strain
You may hear their rushing pinions
Through infinity’s dominions;
You may feel their nearing presence—list, gaze,
reach, and all in vain 1
Ever drearer grows the night-olose, and each
influence stings or chills,
While an overmastering sadness
Spurs despondency to madness—
If the Lord meant this for living, He may end it
an He wills.
Now the violet and saffron both in wine-dark
tint are blent,
And Hesper dear, surmounted,
By radiances uncounted,
Glows palpitant, like holy fire in sacred monstrance
pent.
Sure the God who made must mock us, or He’d
never plague us so
With soul-glooms deadly chilling,
Strained senses, throbbing, thrilling;
Such physical endurances, such depths of spirit
woe;
Such sordid, sad surroundings, such all-excludirg
veils.
Ah ! Is it so ? Feel nigher !
Think bolder! Strive, reach higher !
While o’er the zenith slowly now the white
Magellan sails,
And myall on thy altar-hearth its subtle soul
exhales.
Lone heart! Cease, cease thy sobbing !
Lo ! The firmament is throbbing
With the everlasting glory of a million million
Grails.
Oh ! never cup nor chalice, by man or angel
wrought,
Held ever that quintessence,
That sacring, blessing presence,
With revelation, soul’s delight, and utmost savii g
fraught.
The world’s the Grail. Who knows it is ended with
the quest;
God drinks, and God extending
In welcome never ending,
ids man drink,, too, and, drinking, find His
purpose manifest.
Good world ! Indeed thou art our Grail, our
chalice full and free.
Thy full signification
Is Life’s prize and salvation—
To know thee well, and love thee well, is sure
felicity.
Yet often from out-back there (the bumam hinter-
land),
Come glimmerings of suggestions.
Or vague, far-reaching questions,
As if some wmald-be comrade flashed a light, or
reached a hand.
He who mocks such visitation, who denies-the big.
outside,
May declare what was beholden
Of blinded Billy Polden
Y hen he made out across the Downs and follow f.
it and died.
Billy bossed it on the Cooper with the whip; or
she ■irs, or axe.
But his eyes went sandy-blighted ;
And evermore benighted,
He chucked bluey at Betoota, and stood staggering
in his tracks.
“ Lord God Almighty end it 1” cried Billy,.
swearing hard.
For the backblocks’ niggard pity,
Or the close walls of the city,
Were worse than death and Hell to him, and all
things else seemed barred.
Then while the boys were swearing they would
never see him done,
He pulled his big bulk upright
And swore he saw a white light—
A white light moving westward (he who couldn’t
see the sun).
He went right on and found the end. I say that
end was good,
For he met it with that other,
Going under in the smother,
Of the Diamantina spreading in the eighteen-
ninety flood.
Past midnight by the moon’s height, and Orion
getting low,
The horse-bell rings no longer,
The flames leap clear and stronger
As dawn’s breath creeps along the world and
makes the red coals glow.
You may feel it—scarce perceive it—the divinity
of earth
In the dawning’s glad upspringing,
When all souls of things are winging
And far thoughts in our heart of hearts havo
momentary birth.
And it may be even nearer is the sacred chalice
borne
In the inspirative gloaming,
When all souls of things are homing
And blinding screens of commonplace from
quickening souls are torn.
God knows! as Andy Taylor said about poor
Billy’s ghost.
(Poor Billy walks for ever
Out in the Never-Never,
There’s water where his footsteps sound when
travellers need it most.)
We know no more than Gawain knew, or Bors, or
Bedivere.
No Galahad is riding,
No spotless soul abiding
With us poor dull despondent clods who do our
devoirs here.
And yet the gleam, the thrill, the touch, we surely
cannot miss—
Whence ? whither is it tending ?
We feel its influence blending
With Life’s rare raptures, as witli Love, Love’s
first fond virgin kiss.
No chafron’d steed, nor barded, nor sword nor
shield nor lance,
Nor holy angels sailing
With white robes skyward trailing,
While all the world recedes and fades, and all
the stars advance.
But, the rod sun through the timber, on the purple
of the plain,
Horse-bell clinking, hobbles rattling,
And needs must be up and battling—
With a curt farewell to dreamland, ’tis pack,
mount, and ride again.
N.S.W.
FUANOIS MYRS.
“Ku Klux ” : The day that Madame
Melba passed through Dingo Flat in the vice-
regal railway carriage she did not so much as look
out of the gilded conveyance. The great singer
was fast asleep, and the train didn’t stop, but the
Flat felt elated, notwithstanding, and went on a
mild jamboree that evening. Next day Ryan
obtained the license for his new pub., and decided
to call it “Ryan’s Madame Melba Hotel.” The
proprietor of the Drovers’ Arms opposite talked
in an offensive manner about “crawlers”; but
Ryan took no heed, and went on serving out beer.
Next day McGrath, assisted by O’Toole, was seen
carrying a collection of paint pots, brushes, and
a ladder towards the new beer emporium, and
Denis Slattery, of the Drovers’ Arms, and his
friend Hogan, watched him interestedly.
McGrath reared the ladder against the front
of the new pub., and set to work. He was
not a particularly rapid workman, and by
dinner-time had only got as far as “ PATRICK
RYAN’S.” Then he climbed down, and Denis
Slattery went to dinner. When he came back
to resume observations, he found that MoGrath
had got three more letters done and was taking a
well-earned rest and conversing with Hoolan. A
smile flitted over the gnarled countenance of
Denis, and he waved a long pewter at M'Grath,
and made cabalistic signs which the latter inter-
preted as “Come and have one.” M'Grath came
with alacrity—nothing in the world could exceed
the rapidity with which M'Grath could come at a
drink. As ho lot the last of his second beer float
down his neck Denis remarked, "Sure now, but
ye moight be wonderin’ for fwat I dishturbed yez
in the middle uv yer wor-ruk for. Oi fwant yez to
do me a favor. There's a gintloinan hero what
wants his luggage labelled, so have another wan
while Oi semi Moroney over for yer pots and
brushes.’’ M'Grath took the third more slowly,
ho felt there wasn’t a possible of anoth r'after
that, and in a few minutes Moroney returned with
the pots and brushes. That was the last that was
soon of M'Grath or the painting implements for
throe days, and all the while Ryan used language
and threatened murder, and the by-passers stepped
to smile at the signboard of the new pub. on which
appeared in largo letters “PATRICK RYAN’S
MAD.”
* Yo uht *
4 fi cV
ESENTS
HARRINGTON’S . ..
“CRACKSHOT”
CAMERA
A thoroughly practical Magazine Hand Camera for
taking Portraits, Groups, Views and Snapshots of the
popular SIZE, x INCHES, fitted with Rapid Lens,
3 Stops, 2 View-finders, Everset Time and Instantaneous
Shutter, Magazine carrying Six Plates (easily re-loaded),
with automatic changing system, by which Six Photo-
graphs may be made in as many seconds. Book of simple
instructions Free. Postage in N.S.W., 9d. ; othor States
and N.Z., 1/2.
Pltli.E
7/6
I m as ﬂ
A -: ~‘;L.'3:"}'*:.§:' i} j ‘ 31-3
-;.r.‘e*' ' '1!“ .1
«a r
5“ 1
5:11;": 777'-
Illustrated
Catalogue
Over . .
300 Pages
• v A v •
describing Cameras and
everything pertaining to
Photography
FREE
Price
25/-
- «ix
- "St- \"._ ‘
I I. .‘
—\\r\q~ I ;> /(
W PREMO “V”
HAND CAMERA
A compact and elegant little instrument for
taking Portraits, Groups, Views and Snapshots,
SIZE of Picture 4£ x 3$ INCHES. Fitted with
fine Achromatic Lens, Time and Instantaneous
Shutter with adjustable Speeds, 2 View Finders,
Diaphragms, and 2 Bush-plates for fitting to
Tri|>od when required. Supplied with one double
Plate Holder and Book of Instructions. Extra
double Plate Holders, 6s. each. Postage in
N.S.W., Is. 6d. ; other States, 2s. Bd.
Peice 30-
HARRINGTON’S (( Y|QJOR ”
MAGAZINE
HAND CAMERA
. ‘- / "I , :6:
'7’": ‘ f“
a Q ’3
_ ' : A‘ ‘ ﬁ'
This is the most popular Camera in Australasia, being a very serviceable and efficient popular price
instrument for taking Photographs 4| x3| INCHES—Portraits, Groups, Views and Rapid Snapshots. Fitted
with First-class Lens, 2 View Finders, 4 Diaphragms, Time and Instantaneous Shutter with Varying Speeds,
Magazine carrying 12 Plates or 24 Film? (easily re loaded), and simple Changing Arrangement with Automatic
Indicator. Book of simple instructions Free. Postage in N.S.W., Is. 3d. ; other States, 2s. 3d.
The Simplicity as well as the delight one has in taking Photographs of Friends, Pretty Scenes, Pets, and Interesting Incidents, places the
Camera in the fore-front of Suitable Presents for Ladies, Gentlemen, Girls and Boys. Moreover, such a present is LASTING, INTELLIGENT,
and gives endless pleasure and interest. FREE BOOK of Simple Instructions with each Camera obtained from
HARRINGTON « GO.
66 KING ST., SYDNEY
THE AUSTRALIAN DEPOT FOR THE WORLD’S
LEADING CAMERA fIAKERS__ —.
w
93 QUEEN ST„ BRISBANE.
OVER 100 DIFFERENT STYLES in STOCK
from ss. 6d. to £5O.


The Parting of the Ways.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
O! THE road lies green behind us, like a
winding river—
May bloom cmd rose bloom and whispers
o’ the wind —
Sunbeams spilled along the paths like arrows
from a quiver—
Nay, we must press on, sweetheart, and never look
behind.
Time is left and little time for tender words and
kisses;
A little round of purple nights, a round of golden
days;
Never was a gypsying as sweet a one as this is—
We are nearing now the parting of the ways !
* • * *
When at first we took the road, the crescent moon
was slender,
Like a folded lily-bud a-sway on curving stem;
Night and night she spread her leaves, until she
flushed in splendor;
Night and night her petals drooped, the while
we noted them—
Still there lies a little way and time to kiss and
praise;
O, your hand lies light in mine, a little curled
white feather —
We are nearing now the parting of the ways l
* * * »
O, the glory of the days that we have roved in,
Greenwood and deep wood and low wind of the
south /
0, the tenderness of nights that we have loved in—
Soft arms and warm arms, and kisses of your
mouth.
Would that we were turning back to the path’s
beginning,
Back of us the tender light, all before the haze;
Let our feet be slow, sweetheart, the goal is
weary winning—
We are nearing now the parting of the ways /
N.S.W.
MAGGIB SULLIVAN .
The Strategist.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WANT a job ? ”
“We do thot, sorr. Tis fower
wakes since we lift Amoy—Patsy
an’ me—wid iligant chicks, be the same token.
We waltzed Matilda into the township, an’ had
the misforchune to fall in wid bad comp’ny—we’re
taytotallers in a gin’ral way, Patsy an’ me, as
yez well know, sorr—an’ be jabers here’s me now
wid nary red cent, boots wore out, an’ a thirst
’twould take the Horse Shoe Lagoon to satisfy,
an’ shtill lave us dhry. Yez might put us on, sorr.”
“ Why did you leave the township?”
AN AUSTRALIAN GEORGE WASHINGTON.
" Father, 1 cannot tell a lie; I did it with my little hatchet .”
“Shure we wuz broke, an’ the pubs wudn’t
shtick us up another dhrink, an’ we cudn’t bite
the lug av a single sowl.”
“ Now, look here, you two. You’ve slipped me
up several times before. You’re both good men if
you like, but you never finish a job without one
or more sprees. You’re fond of the grog, in fact.”
“Me, sorr?”
“Yes, you, Mick.”
“Well, sorr, maybe just the laystest tashte in
loife whin Oi’ve cramps in me shtummick.”
“And you, Patsy?”
“ Me, sorr! ”
"Yes, you.’
“Well, sorr, to tell yez the Gawd’s truth, wid-
out a wurrud av a loi, I—l—l —glowries in ut.”
“ Thought so ! Now, look here. I’ll give you
a job on conditions. I want a well put down in
the Four-mile. You can have it at fifteen shillings
a foot for the first hundred feet, a pound a foot
for every foot after, and a pound a hundred for
slabs. You’ll get no money—not a cent—until
you find a supply of water, to be specified, and
finish the job, or until I knock you off. You can
start to-morrow. You’ve no money, and no credit
in the town, so I don’t think you can get on the
spree until you’ve done what I want. You can
drink yourselves paralytic then, if you like.”
“Shure, sorr, we moite hov to go down a
hoondred fut—yez’ll let us make wan dhraw?”
“ Not half a one, Mick, if you have to go down
two hundred. I want water in the Four-mile
quick, and it’s not good enough to have you two
wasting a week at a time on a spree. You can
get your tucker here cheaper than in the town,
and I’ll send it out. If you agree, sign on at
the office at eight o’clock to-morrow morning, and
the spring-cart can take your camp out straight
away. I’ll be out the following day to show you
where to start. Come over to the house and I’ll
give you a nobbier now.” And Jack Dillon,
manager of Bindango, walked off.
* * • *
“Did Mick and Patsy sign their agreement,
Cummings?”
“ Yes,” replied the storekeeper, “they’ve gone
out. Hope they’ll finish this job without a spree.
Water within a month would be worth a lot in
the Four-mile.”
“They’ll finish without a spree this time,”
chuckled the manager, and he told Cummings
of their impecunious state, and the stringent
conditions of agreement.
“ Good shot!” said Cummings, “you’ve euchred
them this time, I believe.”
* * * *
“ Mick, Mick, ye divvle! Ez ut ashlape yez
arr ? yelled Patsy, leaning on the handle of the
windlass.
“Ashlape? Divvle a
bit,” answered Mick
from the bottom of the
well they had been
steadily sinking for
some time past. “ ’Tis
the sound of the gad
on the hammer drownda
yer voice, me son ; an’
yez nivver had no'more
voice than a fresh-
dhropped lamb. But
phwatt arr yez roarin’
an’ bellerin’ like a mad
bull fur now, annv-
way ?” }
“The rashun carrt’s
coinin’. Hov yez anny
missage fur Jack Dil-
lon ? ”
“Till him to sind
out a bag av tank
wather nixt toime he
sinds. Shure, it’s sick
Oi am av the tashte av
mud an’ gum laves.”
* * *
“ Patsy,” said Mick,
rolling over in his bunk
to face his mate, who
was laboriously spell-
ing out the war news in
a month-old paper by
the light of a guttering
slush-lamp, “Oi’msick
av > this loife. Wahter
an’ mud an’ gum laves
don’t shute me conshti-
tooshun. Oi’in giftin'
cramps in me shtum-
mick.”
“fnr T Wii Ugh "IJr. sht «ramick,” said Patsy,
fm: yez 11 git nawthin to cure ’em till we finish
this job, army way. ’
“ Won’t Oi, begob ? Ye’re no jaynius, Patsy.
Ye ve no intleck—not enough, be chalks, to d’reck
op rashuns in bth Afnkey, ayvin. Oi’rn gom’ to
cu f e T P? e cramps, Oi tell yez. Begorra, Oi am so ”
Divvle a wan av me sees how. If yez don’t
loike the wather, why don’t yez dhrink out av the
wather-bag the rashun-carrier brought yisther-
day? Yez won’t dhrink ut yersilf an’ yez won’t
let me. t fur med’sin yer kapin’ ut? ”
x> * Don ’|L. darr tal . k av dhrinkin’ th’ot wather,
iratsy. lis essential to me plan av campane, me
•2 y u- P ll , n a shtrateegyist. Lorrud Roberts
wid his feathers isn t in ut wid me, whin wanst Oi
make me moind up.”
*« V ? 00rae n °t,” said Patsy ironically.
Attind t’ me, me bhoy. We’ve bin wurrukin
tree wakes an’ we’re down twinty fut. Arrn’t
we?
“ Wearr.”
“Ef we done twinty fut in tree wakes, we’re
good mm. Isn’t thot so?”
“ Et ez.”
“An’ good min shud be thrated good, shudn’t
they ? ”
“ Av coorse.”
An how’s this Jack Dillon, that’s an Oirish-
man be his name an’ his tongue, but a black Pro-
desdan Britisher be his daylins, thratin’ we two
B°°d cam ? Phwat do he mane be ’greemints an’
c ndsh’ns? Phwat roight has he to till two jintle-
min not to hoy a shpree till his dhirty ould job’s
’Tis interfacin’ wid the liberty av the
subjick. ’Tis thratin’ us wurrse nor the British
HARDY BROTHERS.
13 Hunter St., Sydney
118 Queen St.,
Chased Silver • mounted
Memorandum Pad, 15s.
Silver Letter Pile, 7s.
(And at London)
WEDNESDAY
SEPTEMBER |
23
Miniature Calendar
Frame 2J in. high,' with
Solid Silver Mount, 7/6.
Brisbane
Pen Wiper, with Solid Silver
Base, 4s 6d.
Fine Gold “New Art"
Pendant, set with 2 Pink
Tourmalines and 2 Pearls,
72s in case.
Cut-Glass and Chased
Silver Salts Bottle, 4fi*.
Glass Jam Dish, withbest
Electro-plated Cover and
Spoon, 13s.
Doulfon China Tobacco Jar,
with Solid Silver Rim, 17s.
Silver Photograph Frame, with
Velvet Back, 19s.
I-¥ ARDY BROTHERS have in Stock Numerous
Articles suitable for Xmas Gifts, which have been
personally selected in London by a member of the firm.
These include the Newest Designs in Jewellery, Silver,
Electro-plate and Watches.
Large Selections of Goods forwarded to the country on approval.
M
Flexible Bracelets in large
Variety, set with
Turquoise, Pearls, and
other Gems.
Write for Large Illustrated
Catalogue containing over
1000 Illustrations.
WORTHINGTON
PUMP
Company, Limited,
32 & 34 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
sdiAind
Steam, Electrically or
Power Driven to suit all
services—Kept in Stock.
lurrLtmtNJmrr
CD
sernrHc J-
cmm*
1 avttnjin room*
tm webster"strr-vrcuum”feed wrterherter
PURIFIER RND FILTER
S/MPSO* B*os. 32-3* Ci**t*cr St. SrMcr.
Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers.
>
Condensing Plants.
>
Air Compressing
Machinery.
Estimates Given,
Catalogues sent on Application,


thrated thim pore, harrumless Bores in Sth
Afrikey. To bell wid his ’greemint! ”
“ ’Tis you thot’s ahlways roight, Mick ; but Oi
don’t see how shlangin’ the boss’ll cure the cramps
in yer shtummick.”
“Ye’re an’ eejyut, an’ yez ahlways wuz,
an’ yez ahlways will be. Me owrayshun’s on
account av me jaynious. Oi can no more
hilp owratin’ than a brumby harrse can hilp
whistlin’, or a native borrun can hilp skitin.
’Tis becase av me jaynious. Look here now, how
fur ez ut to the railway sidin’ ? ”
“Couple o’ moile.”
“Jack Raygan’s lingthsman theer, an’ luks
afther the gate, an’ he’s a far-away relashun av
moine, an’ Oi’m goin’ to chew his ear fur the proioe
av a returrun fare to town to-morrow noight.”
“How’ll thot hilp yer cramps? Yez hov’nt got the
proice av a nobbier. Yez moight git a shout er
two, but it takes a power o’ shouts to cure yer
cramps, Mick. They comes to shtop a day ur
two.”
“ Hould an till Oi tell ye. Yez see thot fower-
gallon kig ? Clane ut out, an* impty the wather
out av the bag inty ut, so’s Oi can take ut up to
the 8 o’clock thrane to-morry noight. Yez’ll
come wid me an’ shtop talkin' wid Raygan till Oi
come out agin at 11.30. Thot’s all Oi’ll tell ye,”
and Mick turned his face to the tent wall and
refused to speak again.
* * • •
“Thrain’s late, Raygan.”
“Only foive minyutes. Phwat’s yer hurry,
an nyway, Patsy?”
“Faith, Oi’m on tindner hooks till Oi see phwat
Mick’ll bring out in thot kig. He’s a jaynious,
be sez, an’ a shtrateegyst, but how he’s goin’ to
slitrateege wid no money, an’ thim publikins as
suspishus as polishmin, bates me entoirely.’’
“Ther’s her whistle.”
* * * *
“ Oi think, Patsy,” said Mick, carefully deposit-
ing the keg on the table in Regan’s sitting-room,
“ we’ll shtop here this noight. Me crramps ez
bad. ’Tis a long walk to our camp, an’ Oi’m shure,
too, me fren’ Raygan wud loike a dhrop av the
orathur.” ’
Patsy carefully lifted the keg.
“Howly Moslies, ut’s full!”
“Av coorse,” said Mick with a condescending
smile; “did yez expec’ me to bring ut out
impty?”
“ Didn’t oi say he wuz a jaynious ; a shtratee-
gyist?” asked Patsy in a hoarse, triumphant
whisper.
Regan said nothing, but produced three panni-
kins. He was a man of few words, but eminently
practical.
“Jintlemin, charrge yer glasses—pannikins, Oi
inane,” said Patsy. “OiVe a toasht to purpose.
’Tis the healt av the jaynious, the noble shtratee-
gyist, Mick—Mick—Mick Godknowsphwat.”
The pannikins rose simultaneously, hovered a
moment in mid air, and reached the table again
together.
“ The bist of gin,” said Regan.
“ ’Tis so,” said Patsy.
Mick returned thanks with modestyand dignity,
and the self-conscious air of a man who has carried
through an undertaking for the benefit of his
fellows in the face of tremendous odds.
• • • *
“Bing out again, Cummings.”
“Mick ! Patsy ! Mi-i-i-ck ! Pa-a-a-a-atsy 1”
“It’s no good, I’m afraid,’’said Dillon, “ they’re
not here. The fire’s cold, and their working
clothes are in the tent. They must have been
away a day or two. Try for their tracks. ”
“ Here are their tracks ; by Jove, heading for
the railway line. Let’s see, Mick’B some sort of a
relation of Regan, the lengthsman, isn’t he ? I’ll
bet that’s where they are,” said Cummings.
“ We’ll go and see.”
* * • *
“Raygan, me son,” said Mick, looking through
the window of the lengthsman’s cottage, “ heer’s
Dillon, the (hie) bruthal opprissor av the free
mahn. Ye’d better skip, me son, or he (hie)
moight make ut warrum for yer billet. Oi’ll giv’
him awjience.”
Regan skipped, as well as he was able.
“The tip-top of the marnin’ to yez, Mishter
Dillon,” said Miok, advancing with a lurch in his
walk and gaily waving a pannikin with friendly
invitation. “Yez see me undher the docther’s
ardhers fur (hie) scrampshs in me shtummick, an’
Oi’ve obtained a shupply of med — (hie) —cle com-
forts by a brillyint piece of shtrateegy (hie).”
“This beats the devil,” said Dillon.
“ It does so,” assented Mick, cheerfully.
* 1 Where’s Patsy ? ”
“Patsy—ris this sowl—’■ in glowry, on (hie)
Raygan’s bunk.”
“’Pon my soul, it’s too bad,” said Dillon.
“ However, it serves me right, for I was a damned
fool to let you that contract. I might have known
you’d get grog somehow. Now, how the devil did
you manage it?”
“ Thot, Mishter (hie) Dillon, ’s a saycret which
cannot be (hie) enclosed. ’Tis yer own fault fur
imposin’ arbiter —er —er —ary o’nd’shns on ( hie)
free min. ’Tis a continooance o’ the (hie) bruthal
pol’shy of Br’n t’ ould Oireland. Oi hate Br’n.
Ye’re a blanky opprissh’r, Mishter (hie) Dillon.”
“That’s all right. When will you be able to
get to work again ? ”
“ Day afther t’morry. More be token (hie)
that whin yersilf an’ Mishter Cummings has had
a nobbier there’ll be (hie) moighty little in the
kig. (Hie.) Come insoide. Oi bear no nialish
(hie) t’ me opprissh’rs. Come ’long (hie),’’ and
Mick, drunk but dignified, fell headlong into the
cottage.
* * * •
Mick and Patsy had finished their well, and sat,
waiting for someone from the station to come and
measure up.
“ Till me how you got thot kig o’ gin, Mick.”
“If Oi do, Fatsy, will yez shware an th’ ’anner
av an Oirishman yez’ll nivver shplit, fur, ut’s a
shtroke av jaynious that can be used agin,”
“ Oi shware ut.”
“ Will yez shware that yez’ll not thry ut yrsilf,
fur ye’re no shtrateegyist, Patsy.”
“Oiwill.”
“This was the way av ut, thin. _ Yez remember
the kig had two gallons av wather in ut ? ”
‘‘ Oi do. More be token the wather— —”
“Jesso! Whin Oi reached town, Oi bowls up
to the Skule av Arruts. ‘ Good noight,’ sez Oi to
thot fat tief Doyle. ‘ Phwat arr yez afther now,
Mick,’ sez he; ‘Oi warrun yez,’ sez he, * thot ’tis
no good,’ sez he, ‘ t’ ask fur a dhrink onless ye’ve
the money to pay forrut,’ sez he. ‘ Thry anny av
yer thricks on wid me,’ he sez, ‘an Oi’ll put a
head an yez as big as a forthy-shillin pot,’ he sez.
‘ Oi knows yez too well,’ sez Oi, ‘ t’ ashk a favor
av yez,’ Oi sez ; ‘ Oi’ve a conthrac fur well-sinking,
Mishter Doyle, on Bindango, Mishter Doyle,’
sez Oi. ‘ Oi’ve liearrd thot yarrun before,’ sez he.
‘ Oi : ve money,’sez I (which wuz no loi, Patsy—
’twuz shtrateegy). ‘Gimme a gallon av yer hist
gin,’ sez Oi, ‘ an put ut in me kig,’ Oi sez, ‘ an be
quick,’ Oi sez.
“ The tief av the wurruld althered his chune in
a niinyute, Patsy. ‘CernTy, cern’ly, sorry Oi
shpoke rough,’ sez he, an he misures out the
-htuff an’ puts ut in me kig. ‘ How much, ’ sez Oi,
puttin’ me hand in me pocket (shtrateegy agin,
Patsy). ‘ A quid an’ a crown,’ sez he. ‘Phwat 1 *
sez Oi; ‘twinty-foive bob?’ sez Oi. ‘Yis,’ sez
he, ‘ two bottle an’ a half at tin shillun, ’ sez he.
‘Ye black tief, Paddy Doyle,’ sez Oi, ‘bekaae a
mahn’s got a good conthrac’, ez ut anny rayson
yez shud thry an’ rob him ? ’ sez Oi. *Oi can git
ut fur a quid at the Quane’s Arrums,’ Oi sez (an’
that wus zhtrateegy too, Patsy, fur mebbe I cud,
an’ more loike I cuddn’t; divvle a wan av me
knew anny way). ‘ Bedad,’ sez he, ‘if ould mother
Flaherty can sell at thot, Oi can too; so hand
over a quid, Mick,’ sez he. ‘Ye’re inshultin’,
Paddy,’ sez Oi. ‘Oi remimber phwat yez said
whin Oi come inty yer house,’sez Oi, ‘an’ thin yez
thried to rob me,’ Oi sez. ‘To hell wid yer dhirty
grog,* sez Oi, ‘hould out a misure till Oi giv yez
back phwat yez guv me—ther’s some av me own
in the kig too ’ (shtrateegy, Patsy, me son). Ther
wuz some av me own in the kig, but Oi’d no call
to tell him ’twuz wather). ‘Shure, ’twuz in joke
Oi shpoke, Miok,’ sez he. ‘Divvlea joke,’sez
Oi, ‘ hould out yer misure,’ an’ Oi powered him
back a gallon, an’ lift the Skule av Arruts wid
two gallon av half-an’-half gin an’ wather.
“ At the Quane’s Arrums Oi wurruked the same
orrykle, an’ tould th’ould woman Oi cud git gin
chaper at the Skule av Arruts. Oi soft-sawdhered
her too, an’ tould her ’twuz a cryin’ shame fur an
Oirish woman to thry an’ take down an Oirish
wurrukin mahn. Whin Oi lift, she wuz wapin,
an’ Oi had more gin an’ loss wather.
“At the Ryle Oi played the same game, an’
tould Ryan gin wuz onaper at the Rip-an’-Tear.
Oi lift the Rip to the lasht, bekase ut’s the nayrist
to the rhailway station, an’ ’twuz important to
kape me loine av rethrate opin.
“ Me luck shtud to me at the Rip-an’-Tear, fur
Oi found th’ ould woman beery an’ am’rus, Patsy,
an’ on the strength av me conthrac’ Oi bought a
gallon av gin on the shtrap an’ shtuck up two
dhrinks besoides. Thin Oi rayturrned to Raygan’s
comfortayble in me moind, an’ wid tree good
gallons av gin. Patsy me bhoy, station managers,
storekaypers, publikins and all, is banded togither
to opprisli the wurrukin man an’ to deproive him
av his little bit av comfurt. But, glowry to the
saints, wher ther’s a will ther’s ginerally a way,
me son, an’ wid the exercise av a little ingenooity
tis ahlways possible to git deadwood on arn’ry
min loike thim. Oi nivver fail, Patsy ;Oi nivver
fail!”
“Mick,” said Patsy, “Oi ahlways sed yez wer
a jaynious an a sthrateegyist, an’ now ye’ve
proved it. We’ll always wurruk mates, Mick ? ”
There was a note of anxious interrogation in
Patsy’s voice.
“We will, aa eoo—whin it's necessary to
wurruk.
“NE'ER-DO-WKL.”
Young though Melbourne is, and younger
still the dwellings on the country round about,
there are, here and thers, houses that look old
enough to remember the time of the Crusaders.
One such stands within a stone’s-throw of the
Yarra, some miles above Heidelberg. ’Tis a blue-
stone building, lone, dark and damp. Gums and
box-trees a thousand years old stand round ; the
road to the city is reached by a mile-long track.
Here came, in the early days, from India, an ex-
employee of John Company, built, lived, died
ana was buried in his own private ceme-
tery, in front of his earthly home. Monu-
ments, standing to this day, show that
his wife, daughter, and son-in-law were also laid
beside him. Another secluded home was built by
an early arrival at the bottom of a gully running
down from the old road to Anderson’s Creek and
the Caledonia diggings. Thousands of diggers
trod that road in feverish haste ; last year
hundreds of drovers travelled their drought-
stricken sheep and cattle along the same track—a
back way from the hungry North to Gippaland.
Yet not one in a thousand suspected the
existence of this old home. Scrub by the road-
side hides the sliprails, and the little-used track
to the house is almost grass-grown. The builder
of this home feared bush fires, and constructed it
of extra heavy galvanised iron, without nail or
screw—every sheet rivettod to its neighbor, and
the whole bolted to stout blue gum joists and
uprights. Twice the fire swept his paddocks and
left him and his unharmed. The third time he
was away in Melbourne; and his little son of
four, bringing in the cows, was caught by the
flames. He buried the body of his stricken
wife and the ashes of his boy in the same grave,
and left Australia for ever. But the old iron
house with its earthern floor still stands. The
red deer leap his fences now—for the “bank”
holds the land, and a tenant will not clear bush
whioh he may not use.
LATER ON!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Those vast western districts which now appeared to
be of little value, would, under some scheme to be devised
later on, be made fruitful and profitable to all concerned.”
—John 3d
Oh t the happy days in store,
Later on!
When the drought shall dry no more,
Later on I
Te who live on stewed gohanna,
Shout hurrah ! and sing hosanna 1
In the desert there’ll be manna—
Later on I
Think not 'tis an idle dream,
Come—and gone 1
They will hatch a wondrous scheme,
Later on !
Trust the mighty politician ! *
Like unto some old magician,
He will change the land's condition,
Later on 1
In the merry time to come,
Later on I
All the West with life shall hum,
Later on I
’Twill not be—they’d have you know It—
Golden age of some mad poet;
Politicians will bestow it,
Later on I
There’ll be time for everything,
Later on 1
You may hear a bunyip sing,
Later on I
All impatience most absurd is,
For the statesman’s time to gird his
Loins up, and to keep his word, is—
Latbk on !
N.S.W,
ULOOLA.
WALKING SUIT
To Measure
of Sergerettes, Fancy Suit-
ings, and the Fashionable
Grey Vicunas in Correct
Shades.
DRESS SUIT
To Measure
Of Fine French Twill and Appro-
priate Suitings, Silk Facings, and
Satin Sleeve Linings,
105 s.
“ORIENT TO MEASURE”
CLOTHING
These Suits Delivered,
CARRIAGE PAID, to
any Railway Station or
Seaport in the States.
SAC SUIT
To Of Tweed, Serge, or
Measure Striped Flannel.
This is our well-known Suit to Measure,
and the range of materials we hold to meet
the demand is very large and varied.
Residents at a
Distance
are Invited to
APPLY FOR PATTERNS and
SELF-MEASUREiTENT FORHS
which will be promptly supplied
Special Attention
is paid to the Turning out of these
“ORIENT TO MEASURE” SUITS,
and they are intended to meet the
needs of those who desire Well-
Fitting and Reliable Clothes at a
MODERATE PRICE.
FROCK
To Measure
SUIT
Of Vicuna in the New Orey
Shades; also of Dark and
Medium useful Sergerettes and
Black Diagonal Suitings.
tv i *
PRICE 90s
DAVID JONES & COY.
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS,


Tussock Land.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IN this dead forest of houses grey,
This ring-barked forest overgrown,
Where the leaves are brick and the branches
stone,
My alien heart has lost its way,
My banished heart is lone.
Yet as in the hurrying crowd I stand,
There comes to me through the roaring Strand
The South wind roving the tussock-land,
The tussock-land far away.
And these narrow souls, from that vision banned,
Beneath their drear skies grey,
How can they guess, how understand
The mother-call of the tussock-land,
My tussock-land far away ?
Tamed streams behind their railings keep,
And smug green views, and fat green trees,
And fields that are hedged proprieties—
Ah ! how I crave for the width, the sweep,
The luring distances
Of that amber ocean, suave and bland !
And like a cry is my heart’s demand
For the rustling sea of the tussock-land,
The tussock-land leagues away !
But those who have never earth’s splendor scanned,
Those patient hearts who stay,
How can they feel, how understand
The whisper of wind through the tussock-land—
My tussock-land leagues away ?
Blank soul behind blank visage pent,
Dull eyes that stare vacuity,
Prim lips of a thin complacency,
Dead lives, close-coffined in deep content—
What have these to do with me
Whose heart like a gonfalon is fanned
By the memory in that waste unspanned
Of the silken breeze through the tussock-land,
The tussock-land worlds away ?
And they whose life is a long task planned,
Whose hearts have not learnt to stray,
What can they know, what understand
Of the smell and the taste of the tussock-land,
My tussock-land worlds away ?
ENGLAND.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
“Coppin’ the Tray.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BUS drivin’ ! Well, I reckon I know a
bit about that—l put in seven year at
it. It was a rare good game too—the
four-’orse busses, that is. The two-’orse uns was
just slavery. They didn’t pay us much ; but
it was wot we made off fares that sweetened the
game up. W’y, I’ve seen me make a pound a day
reg lar for months. ‘ Coppin’ the tray ’we called
it. All the young fellers in the orfices was good
cobbers with us drivers, and they used to ’and us
their tray-bits ’stead of puttin’ ’em in the fare-
box. Agen the regerlations, o’ course, but them
tellers didn’t care. They’d ’a’ cut the d’rectors’
throats if they’d ’ad the chance. No! I was
never ’ad. I only toed the carpet once, and that
come about in this way :
“They started a noo road, and three of us was
put on to drive. We was three fair devils, too ;
but we was’ard workers and good drivers. We
wasn’t pleased, neither. You see, we didn’t know
no one, it bein’ a noo road. So we couldn’t cop
in the ordinary way.
“ The three of us ’eld a corkus.
“I says to Billy Shea—a ’ard ole nut ’e was,
too—‘Bill,’ I says, ‘this’ere company’s tryin’ to
ruin us. Wot’s goin’ to ’appen to our inkums ?’
“‘ It won’t do,’ says Bill. ‘We’ve got to fix
’em some’ow.’
“ ‘Can we work the fare-boxes? ’ said I.
“ ‘ Dunno ! ’ said Bill, shovin’’is’at back an’
’arrerin’ up ’is thatch. He was a very thinkative
chap was Bill. ‘ But I knows a clever bloke
who’ll tell us ’ow, if it can be done.’
“Well, Bill saw his clever cove, and ’e told us
’ow.
“We got a piece of steel outer a woman’s
stays, broke it in ’alves, and rivetted them at one
end. Then we fits a brass ferrel off a whip on the'
other end, ’ammers it out pretty flat, and files it
down. Lord love me, it was easy ! Larf, you’d
a busted yerself to see us rakin’ the trays out.
W’y I ve dived it into the fare box and lifted out
three bob in One go. We called ’em jiggers.
“We was a ’appy family on that road for
awhile, I can tell you. But they put another
driver on, and the show looked like busted. The
first day the noo man came on, I says to Bill,
‘We’ll go bust now, Bill, if we don’t look out.
If we stop coppin’, the earnin’s will go up with a
jump, and the rats (them’s the inspectors) will
spot that somethin’s been wrong—to say nothin’
of us losin’ our ’ard-earned trays.’
“Bill ’ad a rake at ’is ’air, and said, ‘We’ll
’ave to break the nOo bloke in.’
)' !’ I says. ‘ And I’m the boy to do
“ Well, I starts breakin’ ’im in that day. We
was avin a bit of lunch at the out end, me and
the noo cove ; and I whips out and pops a bob in
is fare box where only tray-bits was supposed to
be. 1 hen I goes in, and I says : ‘ Look ’ere,
mate, there’s a deener in your box.’
“‘Wot!’ ’e says— l ’ow did it get there: I
never se’ed it ?’
“ ‘ Come and ’ave a look/ I says.
“’E comes and ’e says, ‘Well, I’m bio wed ! I
never see that go in ! ’ ‘ You’ll pretty quick see
it come out,’ I says. ‘ That’s my shillin’.’ And I
ops up, and out with my jigger, and ’ikes out the
bob. You should ’ave seen ’is eyes bulge.
“ ' Wot’s that thing ? ’ ’e arsks.
“ ‘Oh ! That’s a jigger,’ I says. ‘ I’ll give you
one if you’ll use it.’
“ ‘ I’ll use it, rather/ ’e says.
“Now ’ere’s where I ’ad luck. You see, I never
give im a jigger. If I ’ad, I’d ’a’ put me bloomin’
pot on, proper. I said I’d give ’im one next day.
! wanted to see Bill first. W’en I told Bill ’e
said, ‘ You’ve bustled ’im a bit too fast. Take ’im
easy a bit. Make ’im show’s boney fideys.’
“ So nex’ day I puts ’im off, sayin’ it was gettin’
made, and tried to dror ’im about whether ’e’d
ever been on the cop before. ’E swore ’e ’ad : but
I could see ’e ’adn’t. ’E didn’t know the ropes
and I ung off ini more than ever.
, ! 4 been keepin’ ’is earnin’s down up to
this, by not lettin’ ’im ’ave a clear road, runnin’
into ’is time, and keepin’ just in front of ’im. ’E
got narked, and so ’e gives me away to the rats.
W’en I got into Sydney that afternoon, the
timekeeper—Jim Fraser ’is name was, ’ad a
brother a rat, too—comes up, and, climbin’ on the
wheel, ’e says,
“ ‘I say, Frank, ’ave you got anythin’ called a
jigger on you ? ’
“ I says ‘ Yes ; I’ve got it in my pocket.’
“‘For Gawd’s sake, get rid of it,’ ’e says.
\ And look out they don’t arrest you w’en you go
in to-night.’
“ ’ls brother knew, of course, and couldn’t keep
it to ’imself. ’E must tell Jim. It’s thirsty work
standin’ in the sun time-keepin’, and I used to
chuck Jim a tray or two durin’ the day. So of
course ’e puts me up to the little game.
“I didn’t waste no time disposin’ of the jigger.
“As I goes down George-street, I meets Alec
Doolan—another four-’orse man, only on a differ-
ent road—cornin’ up. I pulls up. I ’ad two or
three on the box, so ’ad ’e.
“‘Got any change?’ I calls out, and then low
so as only ’im would ’ear—‘Quick ! take this.’
“‘No, can’t spare any,’ ’e sings out, and low,
too— ‘ Wot’s up?’
“‘Tell you later,’ I says—‘take it I’ and I
slips the jigger outer me sleeve, where I ’ad put
it, into ’is ’and, and off I goes on to the stand.
Presently one of the rats comes up—a Dutoby
e was.
“ ‘Good day,’ I says.
“ ‘ Goot-tay,’ ’e says, nosin’ round the ’bus, and
then quizzin’ my fare-box. ‘You haf got de
glass mooch scratched.’
« says. I was all ready for this.
Pokin’ tickets down with a ’ame strap.*
“ | Dot vouldn’t do it,’ ’e says.
." "Oh) yes, it’s an old un, and ’ard,’ I says, and
gives im the end to feel. ’E didn’t seem
satisfied.
“ ‘ I ’opes you vos not take any money out,’ ’e
arsks.
“ ‘ W’ere could I ?’ I answers.
“Well, I does another trip, my last for the
day, and a girl I was travel! in’ with at the time
comes in on the box with me. Igive’er all the
money I ’ad, except me change. We alwus carried
thirty bob change. Then I drives ’ome, down the
street, and up the yard—great long yard it was—
singin away as per usual. I knew I’d be ’auled
up. So I reckoned I’d put a bold face on it. Up
I drives, and there was the boss clerk, and the
foreman, and washers, and grooms—a ’ole clique
of em—and a blue-bottle.
“‘Good night, Mr. Oarr!’ I sings out, cheery
like, to the clerk, and ‘ Good night, boys ! ’ to the
stablemen, and ‘ Good night, constable ! ’ to the
trap ; and ‘ Good night! ’ says ’e.
;;up to this no one but the trap ’ad spoke.
• , ’7 110 boss,’ I says, ‘you’re all very quiet to-
night. ’
“ ‘ Perhaps there’ll be more than us quiet before
long,’ says Bartlett.
~ Web,’l says, ‘I ’opes not, for your sakes.
You 11 get lonely.’
j They takes out me money and counts it. I
ands oyer me change bag, and they counts that.
Everythin’ was orlright.
“ ‘ Well, I’ll toddle off ’ome,’ I says.
Bartlett taps me on the shoulder: ‘ See ’ere,
young feller,’ ’e says, ‘we want to search you.’
‘‘‘Certingly !’ I says, ‘Search away ! Any ’ole
clothes I’ve got on that you take a fancy to, you
can ave. Fire away ! Here in the yard ’ll do me.’
So they turns out me pockets, feels me all
over, and turns down the linin’ of me ’at, and, of
course, gets nothin’. I ’adn’t a stiver, and Alec
Doolan ad the jigger.
Would you like me ter take me boots off’’ I
Sa 7®' m rh \7- bobb y larfed > and says, ‘No - it’s
orlright. You can go.’ J ’ 13
“ Oh, ( can I ?’ I says, and I steps up to the fore-
“wV> n°fT’- lo ok ere, Mr. Bartlett!’ I says
Wot s all this about any’ow? Out with it quick’
before I ave a bit of you.’ H ’
“ Well, ’e ’ung back, and Carr, ’e’ung back and
they left it to the bobby. ‘ I ain’t goin’ to arrest
yer, e says. But I would ’ave if I’d found any-
lncrimulatm on yer. You’re suspected o’
r ™, the , Colr, P an y Wlth a thi, 'g called a jigger ’
Oh, that 8 it, is it? ’ I says, ‘l’m supposed
to be a bloomin’ thief, am I?’ and I looks wild.
“‘You must come down to the orfice in the
morning,’ says Carr, ‘and all will be explained
then.'
“‘Oh, will it?’ I says; ‘I reckon it’ll take a
lob of explainm to satisfy me.’
“Well, I went to the orfice, and they asked me
all sorts of questions ; but they didn’t find out
nothin , and they couldn’t do nothin’. I’d been
too quick for ’em, and they thought the other
driver ad told lies from jealousy. So ’e got the
sack, and a ’ole ’and at coppin’ were put on, and
’e worked the jigger with the rest of us.”
GEORGE MACK.
THE BUSH HYPOCHONDRIAC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We are let away on a dismal range,
In a sweltering waste of gums,
Where there’s nothing new and there’s nothing strange
And where nobody ever comes
But the dismal hatter from up the height,
Who has all the immortal ills,
And who calls to talk of his sandy blight,
Or to borrow a brace of pills.
He will stagger down when the sun has set,
And he “ pitches" an hour or more
Of complaints he’s got, or he’s bound to get,
And the ailments he had before.
Then he whines a bit, and he groans a while,
And he snivels : “ I’m done, fer sure !
Could you loan a feller some cammimmile,
Or a gulp o’ the Bushman’s Cure ? ”
We can keep no powders about the place,
He has swallowed them every grain ;
He has swigged our oil, and has left no trace
Of the tins of insectibane.
All the antidotes for the bite of snakes
And the washes for cleaning togs
He has scoffed. He has taken our soap, in cakes,
And the lotions we bought for dogs.
To make bandages he has cribbed our shirts,
Which he gums with some awful tack ;
And he knocks us up when his liver hurts
To rub liniment on his back.
But he gave us extra and especial rats
When he found—as we feared he would—
And he gobbled our poison for native cats,
But it “ did him the world of good ! ”
Just a fortnight since, with a big fat cheque,
He went off on a city spree.
He returned, dead broke, and a wasted wreck,
With a yarn of a jamboree—
Of a woolly time he had had in town,
An unholy debauch of slops,
While his lovely cheque he waß knocking down
In the Collins-street chemists' shops !
E. D.
BEFORE USE.
Extraordinary Results arising: from the use of
HoI-LAND’S
Preparations for the
Treatment and..
Improvement of the Hair.
AFTER USE.
y year s a to y the studvnfth 5 if 1 ?’ ea " s |“S your hair to fall out or turn grey, call and see me. Having given twenty-
~h~ Diseases of the Scal/af f“ d w treatment > P laces me in the position to give you Practical Advice on all the
k leadinTpeorfe " a “ is necessary to remove them. My preparations are used by nearly all the
l \ leading people in the country, and doctors recommend them to their patients-
Beautifu I Hair has elaimed the attention and
" 1 V secured the admiration of men
and women through all ages. No picture having for its central figure
the human form could approach the ideal in loveliness without its
being crowned with a luxuriant head of hair. It has been the theme
of bards and the song of poets. So great was my admiration for a
beautiful head of hair that twenty years ago I determined to give my
whole life to its study. During all that time its preservation and
growth have had my most assiduous attention. Twenty years of
study of “The Hair and its Treatment” have caused my services to
be sought after by people living in nearly every part of the world
and my preparations are now being used by doctors and the elite of
society everywhere.
Ranigeview, 60 Mary-street, Kew.
I have much pleasure in testifying to your very successful treat-
ment of my daughter’s hair. I began to despair of her getting rid of
the bald spots which she had for many years. I spent over £lOO on
it before I placed her under your treatment. Thanking you for the
kind interest you have taken in her case, MRS. SIMPSON
PARASENE.
MR. E. HOLLAND.
Dear Sir,—My daughter, aged twelve, lost her hair and eyelashes
some years ago. We had her under the treatment of two doctors for
over two years, and their treatment was wholly ineffective. I com-
municated with you, and you wrote telling me it was a parasitical
disease that was the cause of the trouble. We carried out your
instructions and used your preparations, and the result has been most
satisfactory. Her hair and eyelashes have grown splendidly. lam
pleased to write you this for your own sake, and thankful for mv
little girl’s sake, too.—Yours very truly, W. J. JACKA
Jacka’s Coffee Palace, North-terrace, Adelaide, S.a!
NATURALENE.
_ 0 . , Dimbooia, Victoria.
Dear Sir,—Please send me another bottle of Naturalene • have
never had such wonderful stuff before. Mv hair is its proper color
again. Will recommend it to my friends.—Yours truly,
- MRS. F. S.
MARVELLOUS HAIR RESTORER.
This is a Splendid Preparation for Removing Scurf, Promoting the
Growth, and Giving Lustre to the Hair. Every person desirous of
preventing their hair from falling off, and securing a luxuriant head
of hair, should use RESTORER.
Ladies should use it on their children, as it is perfectly harmless
and will positively secure to them a good head of hair.
~‘ M
{'5}... a,”
., 3,]
PRICE—3s., 45., 55., 10s. 6d., 12s. 6d. per
Bottle, with 9d. extra on Small and Is. 2d.
on Large Bottles for postage.
Consult me on all Diseases of
the Hair and Scalp.
■Mil
u
m
■
■
111
_J
mm
w*
• v; .v.
i
m
m a
%
§M
Ml
lit
sm n
PARASENE.
_ Kenmore West, via Nanango, Q.
Dear Sir, —I am writing these few lines as a testimonial for your
Parasene, and also to show you my appreciation of your successful
treatment for falling hair. I had tried several other remedies for
falling hair, but they had failed to make it grow ; but, after using a
few bottles of Parasene, it commenced to grow from round the edges
of the bald patch. I have recommended it to a gentleman over here
by the name of Baker, who promised to try it. His hair was coming
out in very much the same way as mine was. I will try to encourage
and recommend your treatment to all I possibly can. Hoping you will
have much success in your business, —I remain, yours thankfully,
E. N. ROBARTS.
MR. E. HOLLAND.
Chicago, U.S.A.
Dear Sir, —Your treatment of nry own hair was so successful that
I have recommended it to Mr. Davies, of the Bank of Nova Scotia,
Chicago, 111., U.S.A. Kindly send him two bottles of Baldene. —
Yours faithfully, A. W. KIRKWOOD.
MR. E. HOLLAND.
PARASENE.
Clunes, via Lismore, N.S.W.
Dear Sir, —I am sanding you postal note for 6s. for another bottle
of your Parasene for my son’s head. The hair came off in patches,
and I have tried many cures without avail; but the bottle I got from
.you has taken effect, and already the hair is beginning to grow.—
I remain, yours faithfully, J. H. N.
PARASENE
is a Preparation specially prepared for destroying all Parasites, and for
making Hair Grow on Bald Patches that are the result of Parasitical
Disease. For RESTORING EYEBROWS, BEARD and MOUSTACHE.
PRICE—Ss. PER BOTTLE, with Is. 2d. extra for postage.
NATURALENE.
Is the Best Preparation yet discovered for
RESTORING GREY HAIR TO ITS ORIGINAL COLOR.
It acts naturally, quickly, and effectively. It contains no lead,
sulphur, or other injurious chemicals.
o°® ' a( ly says:—“ My hair looks to-day—after applying your
Naturalene a few times—as it did seventeen years ago.”
PRICE, PER BOTTLE, ss. 6d. With Is. 2d. extra for postage.
Don t go bald or use Hair-Destroying Nostrums manufactured by
BALD-HEADED QUACKS, but treat
your hair with one or more of these
splendid preparations.
Consult me on all Diseases of
the Hair and Scalp.
22
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist,
193 Collins St.,
Melbourne, Vic.


“SELF-POISONED.”
In order that we may keep the body in the best
condition to withstand the daily stress and strain of
mental and physical wear and tear, it is essential
for us all to understand something of the various
processes of Nature which ensure the mainten-
ance of life. Most people do not realise that it is
as necessary to life that the body should waste
away as it is that its substance should constantly
be replaced by a sufficient supply of fresh air,
water, and food. The wasting of the body is ac-
complished by the production of a certain quan-
tity of used-up material, and this used-up or dead
material must be thrown off from the body by
natural means without undue delay, for if any of
it is suffered to remain in the system it becomes
actively poisonous, and must cause disease or
death.
Upon the skin, lungs, kidneys, and liver rests
the main responsibility of extracting poisonous
matter from the blood and removing it from the
system. The moment one of these organs, through
weakness or disease, becomes incapable of per-
forming its work efficiently, that moment we
begin to suffer from some illness, and if steps are
not taken to restore to health and activity the
organ at fault, death from some form of blood-
poisoning must ensue.
When a man draws a breath, he fills his lungs
with air. Fresh air is composed of oxygen diluted
with nitrogen. When the man empties his lungs
by breathing out, it is found that oxygen has been
taken from the air, and that the breatn contains a
largo amount of carbonic acid. The man did not
breathe in the carbonic acid. It would be im-
possible for him to do so, as this gas, when pure,
is highly poisonous. It is carbonic acid which
sometimes fills the workings of coal mines, and
cause so many lamentable deaths amongst the
minors. So deadly is it that a flame will not burn
in it. The carbonio acid in the breath is actually
made in the body from carbon taken in in the
form of food, &c. This is an example of the
process of waste and the making of poison con-
tinually going on within us.
Another way in which our bodies waste is
through the skin. The skin, which looks passive,
is really always working hard ridding the body of
poisons, which, if not removed, would be just as
dangerous to life as carbonic acid. The skin
expels these poisons in the form of perspiration,
and, although it may not be visible, perspiration
is oozing from us all the time. If a man were
completely covered with a coating of waterproof
material he would live but a very little while.
It is not with the skin and lungs, however, that
we have to deal. The skin, as a general thing,
needs but regular treatment with good soap and
water, and it will do its duty perfectly and without
complaint. The lungs are vigorous organs, and
we are soon made aware of any interference with
their action by a fit of coughing or a choking
sensation. It is the importance of looking well
after the health of the kidneys and liver which
we desire to impress upon our readers. These
organs are the most delicate of all those engaged
in extracting and removing from the blood the
waste poisons as fast as they are produced in the
body. Unless the kidneys and liver are in a fit
state to thoroughly perform their task, the par-
ticular poisons, which it is their duty to make and
extract, will remain in the system, and as the
kidneys and liver are often unable to tell us
directly, by a sensation of pain, that there is any-
thing the matter with them we are probably
unaware of their failure until we begin to suffer
from
Rheumatism Indigestion
Gout Biliousness
Neuralgia Jaundice
Lumbago Sick Headache
Backache General Debility
Sciatica Gravel
Blood Disorders Stone
Ansemia Bladder Troubles.
All these complaints are caused by the presence
in the body of urinary and biliary poisons, which,
were the kidneys and liver acting efficiently,
would have been duly removed, and we should
have been spared from suffering.
Prior to the discovery and introduction, in 1879,
of the medicine now known throughout the world
as Warner’s Safe Cure, no satisfactory remedial
agent for disorders of the kidneys and liver was
known. It is now, however, universally recog-
nised that Warner’s Safe Cure acts specifically
upon the kidneys and liver in such a manner that
it establishes a healthy condition of those vital
organs in every case where they are feeble or
diseased. Even Bright’s disease of the kidneys,
probably the most fatal of all diseases, yields to
treatment by this remarkable medicine. Many
people have failed to understand why Warner’s
Safe Cure cures so many complaints of seemingly
so different a character as those mentioned. Our
readers, however, will see that the explanation is
v ery simple. All the disorders cured by Warner’s
Safe Cure are due to one cause, which is the
inability of the kidneys and liver to extract and
expel urinary and biliary poisons. By restoring
the kidney and liver to complete health and
activity Warner’s Safe Cure enables those organs
to properly perform their functions, and free the
blood from urinary and biliary poisons, when all
Pain and sickness, caused by the presence of such
Poisons, necessarily ceases. This is only common
sense. The cure effected is radical, because it is
natural.
THE KIDNEYS AND KIDNEY
POISONS.
The health of man is influenced to a very, great
extent by the condition of the kidneys. Any
disease of the kidneys, or interference with their
action, affects the whole system, because the
purity of the blood is dependent upon the proper
extraction from it of certain specific poisons,
which it is the duty of the kidneys to remove.
The kidnoys are situated in the small of the
back, one on each side of the spine. Human kid-
neys are similar in shape to those of a sheep, but
are somewhat larger. They are encased in fat,
and are supplied with arteries which convey blood
to them from the heart. By a process akin to fil-
tering, the kidneys take any excess of water from
the blood, and they also extract from the blood
various waste poisons with which it becomes laden
in its journey through the veins.
When a person is in good health these waste
poisons are dissolved in the water taken from the
blood by the kidneys, and the solution is passed
through narrow passages leading from each kidney
into the bladder, and hence expelled from the
body. This solution is known as urine. Some of
the poisons contained in urine are animal matter,
such as urea and uric acid; others are mineral
matter, being salts of lime, magnesia, potash, and
soda.
Unless the kidneys do their work thoroughly,
the waste matter is incompletely extracted from
the blood and becomes actively poisonous, causing
us to suffer from various disorders which cannot
be cured until the kidneys are restored to health
and activity.
After the blood is filtered and purified by the
kidneys it enters the veins, and is, in due time,
returned to the heart, having, in the meanwhile,
traversed the body and taken up a fresh supply of
waste matter. The heart again sends the blood
to the kidneys, which once more filter it and ex-
tract the impurities. This process goes on without
ceasing day or night.
The kidneys of the average man filter and extraot
from the blood about three pints of urine in twenty-
four hours. In this quantity of urine are dissolved
about an ounce of urea, and ten or twelve grains,
in weight, of urio acid, together with other animal
and mineral matter, varying from a third of an
ounce to nearly an ounce.
The blood, in the course of its circulation, carries
nourishment, derived from the food we eat, and
oxygen to every part of the tissues of the body, and
receives from the tissues matter which they have
consumed, and for which they have no further
use. This waste matter it is the duty of the skin,
lungs and kidneys to throw, off and get rid of. In
the form of carbonic acid, the lungs throw off the
equivalent of eight ounces of pure charcoal every
twenty-four hours, and the kidneys do their share
by eliminating urea, uric acid, &c., as described.
DISEASES OFTHE KIDNEYS.
Before referring to Rheumatism, Gout, Neu-
ralgia, Lumbago, Sciatica, Stone, Gravel, and
other disorders caused by the retention in the
blood, or the deposition ot urinary (Kidney)
poisons, it is desirable to direct attention to a very
common form of kidney trouble, namely, Inflam-
mation of the Kidneys.
The kidneys are exceedingly susceptible to
inflammation or congestion. An ordinary feverish
cold, whioh closes the pores, and hinders the skin
in performing its part of the work of removal of
the waste products of the body, throws a burden
of extra labor upon the kidneys which they may
be unable to perform. Meazles, Influenza,
Dengue, or any kind of fever, or the free
indulgence in alcohol or beer, will tax the
kidneys unduly, and the increased strain upon
them may cause them to break down.
The great danger of overtasking the kidneys,
or of neglecting to attend to them when the first
symptoms of inflammation are observed, is that
Chronic Bright’s Disease may be contracted.
Inflammation of the kidneys is Bright’s Disease
in its first and acute form.
In cases of inflammation of the kidneys—or the
first form of Bright’s Disease —dropsy is often one
of the earliest symptoms, generally appearing in
the skin of the eyelids, though it frequently shifts
from one part of the body to another. Chill,
followed by fever, pain in the small of the
back, headache and vomiting, are usually experi-
enced. The urine is scanty, sometimes bloody,
and contains albumen and tube casts. Rest in
bed is necessary during the acute stage. Proper
treatment usually results in a complete recovery,
but in a large number of cases, although the
severer features disappear, the urine continues to
contain albumen, and the disease becomes chronic.
Albumen is the life of the blood, and a con-
tinual loss of albumen, through its escape into the
urine, cannot be sustained. When the kidneys'
are healthy no albumen is suffered by them to
pass into the urine.
Death, in cases of Bright’s Disease, may result
through the breaking down of the kidneys, causing
urinary poisons to be retained in the blood, or
from dropsical effusion, or from acute inflamma-
tion of the lungs or of the wall of the heart.
Bright’s Disease, too, make take.another form,
when the kidneys are not generally suspected by
the sufferer to be the cause of the illness. In this
form the first symptom is an increase in the
quantity of urine, which contains very little albu-
men, or even none at all. Enlarged heart and a
hard pulse are pronounced features of this phase
of the disease ; in fact, symptoms pointing to the
heart being affected are often the first to cause
alarm. Pallor, persistent headache, unaccout-
able vomiting or darrhoea, failure of sight,
apoplexy, or acute internal inflammation, all show
the presence of this insidious form of the disease.
SYMPTOMS OF KIDNEY DISEASE.
Greasy froth on water.
Persistent Headache or Neu-
ralgia.
Vomiting.
Diarrh i a.
Alarming fluttering and
pain in the heart.
Scanty and dark urine ;
sometimes bloody and
containing albumen and
tube casts.
Loss of memory, even of
common things, and dizzi-
ness.
Irregular tendency to Rheu-
matism, Chills and Fever
and Pneumonia.
Dropsical swelling of the
ankles, scrotum and
limbs.
Acute'’ internal inflamma-
tion.
Copious urine.
Swelling of the eyelids.
Unusual desire to urinate
at night.
Irritated, hot and dry con-
dition of the skin.
Appetite alternately rave-
nous and meagre.
Annoying scalding sensa-
tion while urinating.
Hard pulse.
Failure of sight.
Debility, disinclination to
make even ordinary exer-
tion.
Intense pain in small of
back upon sudden excite-
ment.
Extraordinary deposit of
mucus in urine after it
has stood some time.
Acid bitter taste, with
furred tongue in the
morning.
Acid condition of the
stomach. Heartburn and
Dyspepsia.
Obstinately constipated
condition alternating
with looseness of the
bowels.
Unnatural shortness of
breath, with disposition
to Pleurisy and Bronchial
Affections.
Indigestion.
Muscular Pains.
Feeling of suffocation.
Wakefulness.
Failure of perspiration.
Aching in the small of the
back.
For more than twenty years Warner’s Safe
Cure has demonstrated its remarkable curative
properties in all cases of kidney disease. Persons
who recognise in the list given symptoms from
which they may be suffering may, with confidence,
commence a course of this great specific with the
full expectation of the complete restoration to
health of the kidneys, and the consequent
disappearance of all distressing symptoms. A
sufficient quantity of Warner’s Safe Pills should
also be taken to ensure one free movement of the
bowels each day.
,A Simple Test. —Put some of the urine passed
the first thing in the morning into a bottle or
covered glass, and let it stand until the next
morning. If it is then milky or cloudy, or if it
contains a sediment like brickdust, or if particles
float about in it, or it is an unnatural color, the
kidneys are not healthy, and no time should be
lost in adopting remedial measures.
Diet.—ln kidney disease milk should be taken
freely, and should form the staple food. Soup,
with rice, tapioca, &c., white meats, fish, chicken,
fresh game, fresh pork, eggs, farinaceous foods,
fresh vegetables, and raw or stewed fruit may be
eaten. Avoid red meats and Rtimulants. Wear
woollen underclothing. Nothing retards recovery
so much as catching cold.
A few letters are subjoined, reporting some of
the cures of kidney disease effected by Warner’s
Safe Cure._ The healing virtue of the medicine,
however, is. now so well-known that inquiry
amongst friends and acquaintances will surely
result in personal evidence of a similarly convinc-
ing nature being obtained.
Letters from GRATEFUL
PATIENTS who have been cored of
KIDNEY DISEASE by
WARNER'S SAFE CURE.
Mr. James Hutchinson, of North Road, North
Brighton, Vic., writes, under date 18th Aug.,
1902
"In February, 1899, my wife was taken ill after her
confinement. I had a doctor and a trained nurse attend-
ing her for two months, at the end of which time she was
90 ill that the doctor came to me and proposed to call in
another medical man, not with any hope that doing so
would be of any use, but in order to assure me that all
that human skill could do had been done to cure her. At
this juncture a friend offered to nurse my wife. Seeing
how she was affected, the friend begged me to send at
,once and get a bottle of Warner’s Safe Cure. I had no
faith in patent medicines, but after repeated solicitations
I consented. I had to send ten miles to get a bottle, and
well remember with what little faith 1 gave it to my
friend to try its effect. On the following Tuesday my
wife was slightly better, and in about two weeks she was
able to sit up in bed, and in about two more she was able
to attend to her household duties. We had concealed
from the doctor the change of medicine, and in four or
five days after we started giving Warner's Safe Cure he
■aid that he could hold out some hope of recovery, as he
noticed a decided change in her condition. I said
nothing about the change of medicine, and when my wife
was up and well again he presented me with his bill for
£25. I then undeceived him, and told him what had
effected the cure. He told me that my wife’s was one of
the most obstinate cases of Kidney Trouble that he had
ever met with, and that he had no hope of her recovery
after the first fortnight.”
From Mr. John Lovell, 45 Balmain-street, Richmond,
Victoria, 19th August, 1902 :
"It is with pleasure that I write in regard to my
recovery from a very bad attack of Kidney Complaint.
I was taken so ill that I had to be brought home and laid
on the couch. I thought that I had a paralytic stroke,
as I seemed to have lost all muscular motion in my back.
I had been hale and hearty up to that time, and could
only account for my attack as being caused by a sudden
chill in the kidneys. I received advice, and was duly
prescribed medicine, but I derived no benefit. Then a
friend recommended me to try Warner’s Safe Cure. I did
so, and the relief was speedy and wonderful. In two
weeks I was out and about my work again. Since that
time I have had no return of the complaint, and am now
in the best of health.”
From Mr. H. M'Laughlin, 8 Dowling-street, Padding-
ton, Sydney, 16th May, 1902
“ I suffered for upwards of five years from Pains in
the small of my back and general ill health until the
last three months. lam now quite well, and thank you,
as my recovery is due to taking two bottles of Warner’s
Safe Cure.”
From Mr. Albert Noble, Hannan-»treet, Kalgoorlie,
W.A., 13th December, 1902:
" I used to suffer agony from pain in the hack and
under the shoulder blades, also from severe headaches
and poor circulation of the blood, and was troubled
during the night. A friend who had received great
benefit from taking Warner’s Safe Cure persuaded me to
try the effects of the medicine. After taking a few
bottles I was quite cured, being freed from ail pain and
inconvenience. My general health is now all that I could
wish.”
From Mr. J. M'Donald, 48 Great Davig-straet, South
Yarra, Vic., 13th March, 1903:
“ For twelve years I suffered from a severe pain in my
right side, caused, so the doctor informed me, by the
bursting of an artery near the kidney. My urine was
greatly charged, and there was sometimes an extra-
ordinary deposit of mucous matter. 1 was advised to try
Warner's Safe Cure. I did, and the result was most
gratifying, as the pain gradually eased, and my urine
became quite clear and free from sediment.”
From Mr. Thomas De Ville, 175 Oowper-stre*t, Waver-
ley, N.S.W., Slst January, 1903:
“About 18 months ago I was taken with a violent pain
in the small of my back. I struggled on with my
daily duties for a while, but the pain became so severe
that I was obliged to give in. One day I was suffering
intensely, when a gentleman for whom I had a great re-
spect, and upon whose word I could rely, called in and
strongly recommended me to take Warner’s Safe Cure. I
immediately sent to W. H. Soul and Co., Pitt-street,
Sydney, for a bottle, and began taking the medicine as
directed. In 12 hours I received great relief, and in three
days was all right again.”
From Mrs. Jane K. Murray, 99 Murray-streefc
Pyrmont, N.S.W., 6th February, 1903:
“Some years ago I suffered terribly with pains in the
back and loins. A doctor attended me for some time
without benefiting me, and at 'ast he told me that he
could do no more for me I was recommended by a lady
friend to give Warner’s Safe Cure and Warner’s Safe Pills
a trial. I commenced to take these medicines, and
gradually began to feel better. I continued taking them
until I was completely cured.”
From Mr. W. C. Horne, of the Enmore Ham and Beef
Shop, Enmore, N.S.W., 20th February, 1903
“ For four years I suffered great pain in my back
and shoulders, and whenever I caught a slight cold
my back would get so bad that I was almost doubled up,
and could not straighten it. I was then living in ths
back blocks, some distance from Bourke, and in a part
where I could obtain no medical aid. I tried several home
remedies, such as hot fomentations, turpentine, &c., but
obtained not the slightest relief. One day I saw an ad-
vertisement of Warner’s Safe Cure, and decided to try it.
I sent for some, and after taking six bottles I was per-
fectly well again, and since that time I have not suffered
in the slightest degree.”
From Mr. T. Brereton, Downing-street, Spring Hill,
Brisbane, Q., 28th January, 1903 :
“ About 3ix months ago I suffered with severe pains
in my hack, accompanied by violent headache- At
the same time I had a very bad cough, which troubled
me much at night. I tried several remedies, but derived
no benefit from them. At last I tried Warner’s Safe Cure,
which worked wonders. I took two bottles, and was
completely restored to health.”
From Mr. N. Macdonald, 160 Gilbert-street, Adelaide,
S.A., 29th January, 1903 :
“ For fourteen months I suffered severe pain in the
back, having caught a cold which seemed to have settled
on my kidneys. At first I did not take much notice,
thinking that the pain would pa«* off, but as month*
went on, and I was gradually getting worse, I became
alarmed, and sought medical advice and treatment. My
general health and the pains in the back got worse
instead of better, and I decided to try what a course of
Warner’s Safe Cure would do for me. To my gaeat satis-
faction, in a short time I obtained complete relief, and
have ever since remained quite well."
From Mrs. Tremaine, Lyon vi lie, Vic., 7th November,
“ 1 have great pleasure la testifying as to the merit of
Warner's Safe Cure. I had a dreadful pain in my back
and kidneys, which baffled the skill of the doctor who
attended me, but Warner’s Safe Cure oared me, and I
fully believe saved me my life.”
From Mr. Bryce Hawthorne, Conrtkeeper, Broken
Hill, N.S.W.
“ Some time ago I had the misfortune to be ran over
|»y a car t. a wheel of which passed right across my
kidneys, and for years afterwards I suffered from a pain
mmy back and in my groin. Since taking Warner’s Safe
Cure, however. I can truthfully say that, at the age of
61, lam perfectly cured, and in grand health. I am a
native of Sydney, and well known in the Singleton dis-
trict as the Australian Hunter and Champion Rifle Shot
of N.B.W. I have been Courtkeeper now for 12 years.”
From Mr. J. W. Anderson, Newcastle, N.S.W., 17th
December, 1902
“ Two years ago I suffered severely from pains across
the small of my back, and was affected with dizziness
and could get very little sleep at night. Reading a pam-
phlet of yours, I concluded that I was suffering from
kidney disease, so bought a bottle of Warner’s Safe Cure
and some Warner’s Safe Pills. I derived so much relief
from the first bottle that I was encouraged to persevere ;
when I had taken four bottles I was completely restored
to health and strength.”
From Mr. Henry M'Namara, 648 Abercrombls-street,
Red fern, N.S.W., 21st December, 1902 :
“ Some years ago I was one of the busiest wholesale
carcase butchers in Sydney, and from hard work and
lying awake at night thinking out plans I had completely
run myself to a standstill. I called in a doctor, who
pronounced me to be almost beyond human aid. He told
me that my kidneys and liver were in such a condition
that they had lost all power of performing the duties
required of them. He prescribed for me, and ordered mo
complete rest, and to discontinue all business. 1 followed
his instructions, but as no improvement took place, he
advised me to sell out and leave Sydney for England, ns
this course, in his opinion, was the only thing to save my
life. I told him if I had to die it should be right here in
Sydney. I kept getting worse instead of improving,
until one day I came across one of your pamphlets, and
saw how others had been cured who suffered from the
same complaint ns myself. I decided to give up the
doctor, and irive Warner’s Safe Cure, Warner’s Safe l’ills,
and Warner’s Safe Nervine a trial. After taking two or
three bottles I began to feel that I was getting better.
I persevered in the use of the medicines until 1 was com-
pletely cured, and had gained a stone in weight."
GRAVEL ‘AND STONE*
When there is a sediment like brickdust in the
urine it is certain indication that the kidneys are
not doing their work properly, and immediate
steps should be taken to restore their healthy
action. If this precaution is neglected, the
particles will gradually become larger, and the
miserable suffering caused by Gravel or Stone
will result.
Stones are usually formed in the kidneys, and
descend thence into the bladder. They are com-
posed of uric acid, or of oxalate of lime; solid
matter which should be held iii solution in the
fluids of the body, and be passed off in a dissolved
condition in the urine. Uric acid stone is by far
the commonest kind.
When a stone is formed in a kidney great pain
in the loins is felt, and this becomes agonising
when the stone leaves the kidney and passes
through the narrow channel leading to the bladder.
The pain then experienced is known as Kidney
Colic. It ceases when the stone reaches the
bladder.
Once in the bladder, the stone may be
passed off with the urine, or it may remain and
become larger by the accumulation of deposits.
Sometimes a stone will form in the bladder by the
simple gathering together of particles of gravel.
Persons of all ages my suffer from stone or
gravel. Even little children are not exempt.
When a stone formed in the kidneys is too
large to pass through the passage leading into the
bladder, the passage becomes closed, dropsy sets
in, and the patient may die in a few hours.
When stones remain long in the bladder they
grow to a great size, sometimes as large as an
orange, and they frequently have to be cut out.
The following symptoms indicate stone or gravel
in the kidneys or bladder :—Painful itching sensa-
tions ; swelling of the seat of pain ; cramps in the
legs and scrotum ; escape of seminal fluid; bearing
down sensation in rectal region; escape of water,
involuntarily, in drops; great agony succeeding
successful urination; paroxysms of pain from
kjdneys to bladder—“kidney colic”; pain and
difficulty in urinating, with sudden stoppages.
If the disease is not checked a breakdown of the
nervous system will follow ; unsound sleep; burn-
ing sensations while urinating; constipation ;
dyspepsia; night sweats; cold feet; hot head ;
dry skin ; weak pulse; loss of flesh, nerve, and
ambition. In the latter stages the victim has to
assume unnatural attitudes in urinating, and the
act produces the severest agony.
Treatment.— The only rational method of
treatment for this disease is to correct the action
of the kidneys, thereby removing the cause. In
a healthy condition of the kidneys and urinary
system, the water holds the solids in solution
until it escapes from the body. In disease the
solids are deposited in the kidneys and bladder.
Medical practitioners have usually no resource
except to surgery—always dangerous. Warner’s
Safe Cure restores to the kidneys their natural
action, relieves congestion, heals the wounded
and bleeding mucous membranes of the urinary
system, dissolves the stones already formed, and
prevents further formation. Warner’s Safe Cure
is the only remedy in the world which has this
power, and if the case is amenable to any form of
treatment, it will ultimately effect a cure.
LETTERS REPORTING CURES IN
CASES OF
GRAVEL AND STONE.
From Mr. James Gi ant, Grocer, 126 Young-street
Annandale, N.S.W., 12th February, 1903
“Some ten years ago I was attacked by great pains in
the baok and groin, which at times were so severe that I
almost screamed with agony. I was treated by doctors
for fully five years, and also tried several patent medi-
cines, but obtained no relief. lat last despaired of ever
getting well again, but was recommended by a friend to
try Warner’s Safe Cure, as it had given him immense
relief in a similar case. I followed his advice, and after
taking the medicine for a while I passed a stone about
three-quarters of an inch long and a quarter of an inch
wide. I am pleased to say that, after this stone had
come away, my sufferings were at an end, and 1 have not
suffered the slightest degree since. Many of my friends
know of my case, and I always keep the stone I passed.
I can confidently recommend Warner’s Safe Cure in cases
like mine, as I am thoroughly convinced that it saved me
many years of agony, if not my very life itself.”
From Mr. Joseph Robinson, Lower Magney-street,
Woollahra, N.S.W., 28th March, 1893 :
“ During the year 1899 I suffered great agony from
great pain in the back and side, oaused by Disease of
the Kidneys and Stone in the Bladder. On* effect


of my illness was to make me very depressed, and at
times I often. seriously contemplated committing' suicide.
About this time a friend advised me to take Warner’s
Safe Cure. I began taking the medicine, and after taking
four bottles the pain in the back and side left me, and,
regaining my usual spirits, life once more became to me a
pleasure instead of a misery. Since that time I have not
suffered in the slightest degree from these complaints. I
attribute my recovery solely to Warner’s Safe Cure, and
am sure that anyone who suffers In a like manner will
derive great benefit from taking the medicine.”
From Mr. Murray L. Allen, 4 Marsden’s-terrace, 01if«
ford-street, Goulburn, N.S.W., 30th December,
1902:
“ During last August and September I had a bad
attack of inflammation of the kidneys and calculus
(stone), both of which yielded to the power of Warner’s
Safe Cure, which I took in accordance with the direc-
tions, paying attention to diet.”
From Mr. W. W. Wignell, Elderslie, Camden,
N.S.W., 30th March, 1903.
“ I have great pleasure in strongly recommending
Warner’s Safe Cure. For the last eight years I have been
suffering from gravel, and have found that Warner’s Safe
Cure has done me a wonderful lot of good.”
From Mrs. Annie Dickson, Mareeka, Q., 26th
January, 1901.
“About five years ago I was taken ill, and could not
leave my bed. I had read one of your pamphlets, and
thought I would give Warner’s Safe Cure a trial. Before
I had finished taking one bottle I was up again. It drove
a lot of gravel out of my'system. The doctor seemed to
have no faith in my cure, and said that I should be
troubled with the same malady again within two years.
I am thankful to say, however, that I have never had a
return of it since, and I think five years is long enough
prove the permanency of the cure.”
♦
BLADDER DISEASE
Inflammation or Catarrh of the Bladder
(Cystitis) is usually due to long retention of
urine ; the effect of irritating drugs ; stricture ;
enlargement of the prostrate gland ; irritation
caused by stone or gravel, or by the careless use
of a catheter; exposure to cold ; decomposition
of urine caused by its retention, &c.
There are two forms of this complaint— Acute
and Chronic —the latter being peculiar to elderly
people. It is commoner in winter than in
summer ; in cold than in warm climates ; in
males than in females. It is always dependent
upon some obstruction to the flow of urine, or
upon a diseased condition of the urinary organs.
The bladder not being entirely emptied, the
water retained decomposes, becomes muddy,
ropy, contains blood and pus, and is offensive.
The kidneys are generally seriously involved in
the mischief, the catarrh being usually a secondary
symptom of disease of the kidneys, and unless
these are restored to their natural condition a
cure cannot be effected.
Warner’s Safe Cure corrects the unnatural
condition of the kidneys, prevents the formation
of pus and mucous by healing the inflamed mem-
branes, and causes the water to become normal.
Frequent warm baths will be found beneficial in
case of catarrh of the bladder.
From Capt. W. J. Stuart, Master Mariner, Station
avenue, Coburg, Vic., 6th April, 1903.
“ It is with much pleasure that I beg to inform you of
the great benefit I have derived from taking Warner’s
Safe Cure. In the early part of last January I had a
chill, which turned to a very severe attack of Inflamma-
tion of the Bladder. It was with the greatest difficulty
that I could pass my water, and although I wanted to
frequently, both by day and by night, it would only come
in driblets. I consulted two doctors, and after examining
me each said it was a disease common to men of my age
(I am over 60), and that I could only get relief by using
an instrument, as medicine would do me no good. I
positively refused to let either of them use an instru-
ment on me, but at once procured a bottle of Warner’s
Safe Cure. I conscientiously and truthfully declare that
before finishing the first bottle I got absolute relief, and
began to.feel better in every respect. I have continued
to take the medicine, and my health has wonderfully
improved. Ido not get up more than once or twice
during the night. lamin as good health now as I can
ever expect to be, and my recovery is entirely due to
Warner’s Safe Cure. I carefully observed the diet direc-
tions in your book. I must strongly recommend Warner’s
Safe Cure to anyone who suffers as I did, and can only-
add that to me it has proved invaluable.”
From Mrs. E. Eobinson, 64 Little Nelson-street,
Williamston, Vic., 18th February, 1903
“ For a very long time I suffered from Catarrh of the
Bladder, accompanied by intense Inflammation of
the Kidneys. The discharge of urine was very scanty,
and precipitated a sediment like brick dust. I had a dull
pain across the small of my back, and a feeling of stiff-
ness through the entire back and shoulders, and could
hardly stand upright. I tried several advertised reme-
dies in vain. A friend, knowing of my condition, re-
commended a trial of Warner’s Safe Cure. I adopted the
advice, though without much faith, but am pleased to
say that Warner’s Safe Cure suited my case exactly, for,
after taking a few bottles of the medicine, I was greatly
relieved, and in a short time was quite well. Since then
I have recommended Warner’s Safe Cure to others, who,
I know, have derived great benefit from it.”
From Mr. John Jenkins, Wimmera-street, Stawell,
Vic., Ist A’pril, 1903
“ Fourteen years ago I wrote you a letter telling you of
the beneficial and marvellous effect of taking a few
bottles of Warner’s Safe Cure and some Warner’s Safe
Pills. I had been suffering from kidney and liver com-
plaint and Inflammation of the Bladder, and had
been so ill that I did not think that it was possible for me
to recover, but Warner’s Safe Cure cured me, and gave
me renewed health and strength. As a proof that the
cure was permanent (and not merely temporary, as some
people would have had me believe), I am now writing to
you to tell you that I am hale and hearty, although of the
advanced age of 81 years. During the last fourteen years
I have recommended Warner’s Safe Cure to many others,
who have proved for themselves the wonderful curative
power of the medicine. Since I first took Warner’s Safe
Pills I have kept a supply by me, taking one occasionally
whenever I am at all constipated, and they never fail to
regulate the bowels and keep the digestive organs in good
working order.”
*
THE LIVER AND BILIARY (LIVER)
POISONS.
The work done by the liver and the work done
by the kidneys is so dependent upon each organ
performing its task efficiently, that any diseased
condition of the liver must necessarily react upon
the kidneys, and vice versa.
The liver is the largest glandular organ in the
body. Its weight, in health, is from three to four
pounds. It is located on the right side, under the
right lung, extending over to the left side and
under the left lung, whilst its under-side is in con-
tract with the intestines and right kidney.
The liver may be described as an exceedingly
complicated chemical laboratory. The blood,
which enters the liver through the portal vein, is
loaded with the products of the digestion of food.
These products the liver deals with in such a
manner that the composition of the blood when it
leaves the liver is very much changed, a sort of
secondary digestion having taken place in the
liver. Bile has been manufactured out of the
blood; uric acid, which is practically insoluble,
has been converted into urea, which is"completely
soluble, and is never found as a deposit in the
urine, a substance called glycogen has been made
from the sugar in the blood and stored in the liver
for future use, and various other transformations
have taken place. The liver also destroys and
removes from the blood red corpuscles which are
worn out and are of no further utility.
The liver makes and extracts from the blood
two or three pounds of. bile every day. The bile
is delivered into the intestines, and acts as a
natural cathartic, besides assisting in the diges-
tion of fatty foods, and retarding the decom-
position of such food as it passes along the
intestines.
The glycogen formed is retained in the liver,
and is again converted into sugar, which is
supplied to the blood gradually, and in such
quantity as may be necessary for the blood’s
enrichment.
Now, if the liver fails to do its work thor-
oughly it follows that the blood, instead of
having its substance dealt with and cleansed in
the manner described, is carried by the veins to
every part of the body in a condition which is
inimical to the welfare of the body. In other
words, the blood is laden with biliary poisons,
and it is the presence of these biliary poisons in
the blood which causes us to suffer from—
INDIGESTION SICK HEADACHE
DYSPEPSIA ANAEMIA
GENERAL DEBILITY BLOOD DISORDERS
BILIOUSNESS JAUNDICE
If the liver properly performed its functions the
blood distributed would be pure, and would
nourish the nerves instead of carrying poisons
which irritate the whole nervous system and give
rise to the disorders named.
LIVERWSEASES.
The liver is one of the most sensitive and most
easily deranged organs of the human body. It is
easily affected by changes of temperature, sudden
chills, alcoholic intemperance, over-feeding, or
tropical heat.
The following are symptoms which indicate that
the liver is not properly doing its work. Many of
these symptoms will be recognised as pertaining
to a condition generally known as Biliousness
A sour stomach.
Coated, swollen tongue.
Fattv covering on the eye-
balls.
Bitter, sour, or oily taste in
the mouth.
Ready susceptibility to
chills and fever.
Frontal Headache over the
eyes.
Constant ache midway down
the spine.
Great depression of spirts
without known cause.
Tenderness and puffiness
under right lung.
Disposition to diarrhoea.
Spotted complexion, es-
cially of the forehead.
Burning sensations in the
palms and bottom of the
feet.
Constant tendency to brood
over your physical con-
dition.
Prostrated, tired feeling,
general debility.
Irritability of disposition.
Blurring of the vision, as if
specks were floating be-
fore the eyes.
Flushed face, drowsiness,
especially after meals—
and burning ears.
Coldness of hands and feet.
Sick headache and sour
stomach.
Irritable skin.
Pimples, eruptions, boils
and carbuncles.
Constipated bowels.
Dizziness.
Disposition to lie awake the
latter half the night and
terrible dreams.
Dyspeptic condition.
Shooting pains in left
breast, and dull pain
under right shoulder.
Splendid feeling one day
and a depressed feeling
the next, without known
cause.
No appetite sometimes, and
ravenous at others.
Tickling sensation in the
throat, causing a cough,
after an acid eructation
from the stomach.
Enlargement of the Liver is quite a common
complaint, and frequently produces all the above
symptoms, and, in addition, great soreness, drop-
sical swellings, shortness of breath (the liver
crowding into the lung cavities), and acute pain
at the heart.
Jaundice, another common disease of the liver,
is indicated first by yellow eye-balls, then the
roots of the nails turn yellow, next the face and
neck, and finally the whole body becomes of this
hue. The urine is a deep color. The tongue is
white, and there is a bad taste in the mouth.
Warner’s Safe Cure has complete mastery over
functional and chronic liver diseases.
Warner’s Safe Cure possesses properties known
to pertain to no other medicine, as it is a specific
cure for all diseases of the liver as well as of all
diseases of the kidneys. When the intimate
dependence of the kidneys and the liver upon
each organ satisfactorily performing its task is
realised, it will at once be seen how it is that
Warner’s Safe Cure has proved its efficacy in cases
of kidney or liver disease when treatment by all
other means has failed. The patient has probably
been treated for the kidneys only, when the liver
is just as much at fault, or for the liver, when the
kidneys are seriously involved in the mischief.
Warner’s Safe Cure exercises its healing influence
on both the kidneys and the liver. This is the
whole secret.
In almost all cases of liver disease, the bowels
are in either an irregular or constipated condition.
When this is the case, in order to give full scope
to the curative properties of the medicine, the
action of the bowels must be corrected; con-
sequently Warner’s Safe Pills should also be
taken in sufficient quantity to produce one free
movement daily.
4
DIET FOR LIVER DISEASES.
Avoid fat meats, especially fat pork, yolk of
eggs, potatoes, pastry, sweets, and fermented
liquors. Drink skimmed milk with soda water,
a quarter of a pint or more, every three hours.
Broth, from which all fat has been removed, and
dry toast are also recommended.
. Bi cases of jaundice, the diet should be very
simple. Avoid milk, fat, and food or drink con-
taining sugar, also all alcoholic stimulants.
LETTERS FROM PEOPLE CURED OF
LIVER DISEASE.
From Miss lima Boss, 198 Archer-street, North
Adelaide, S.A., llth December, 1902.
“ Some four years ago my general good health failed
me, and I suffered from severe headaches, at least once at
week, constant debility and loss of vitality. At times I
had pain and weakness in my back. My appetite became
poor and digestion bad. I consulted medical men, who
pronounced the cause of my illness to he Disease of the
Liver, and gave me medicine to take, but as weeks
passed and I was getting no better, I became alarmed
and decided finally to try Warner’s Safe Cure. 1 con-
tinued to take this medicine for three weeks, and felt
better each day. . My appetite returned, weakness and
pain left me, and in about a month I was as well as ever.
Had I taken Warner’s Safe Cure at the commencement of
my illness, I feel sure I should have been cured sooner,
and so have saved doctors’ bills.”
From Mr. T. J. Martin, 17 Mountfield-street, North
Brunswick, Vic., 19th August, 1902
“ 1 have great pleasure in recommending Warner’s Safe
Cure to anyone suffering from Liver Complaint, I
having taken a course of that medicine on the advice of
my mother, who had been cured by it. I had suffered for
some time from my liver, but a more severe attack
induced me to take Warner’s Safe Cure, and I am thank-
ful that I did take it, as I am now quite free from any
symptom of liver disorder. I have since recommended
the medicine to others, who have also derived great
benefit from it.”
From Mr. J. Clark, 57 Oecil-street, Williamstown,
Vic., 22nd February, 1903
“For many years I had suffered from Liver Com-
plaint, accompanied by indigestion, bilious attacks, and
severe pains across my chest. I was so disheartened
with the non-success of the many advertised remedies
which I took in the hope of obtaining relief that it was
only after strong persuasion that I decided to give
Warner’s Safe Cure a trial. I, however, have cause to be
pleased that I did so, for, after taking a few bottles of
that medicine I was quite cured, and am now in the
enjoyment of good health.”
From Mr. G. Wyatt, 3 Cooper-street, Redfern,
N.S.W., 7th February, 1903
“ A short time ago I became greatly troubled with my
Liver and Kidneys. I had terrible pains in the small
of my back, and also in the stomach and groin. I was
very ill for about a month, when I was advised to try
Warner’s Safe Cure. After taking the contents of one
bottle I was quite well again.”
From Mrs. Emily Powell, 69 Murray-street, Pyrmont,
N.S.W., 2nd February, 1903
“ Having suffered severe pain for a long time through
disease of the Liver and Kidneys, I tried all sorts of
medicines without obtaining any relief. After my con-
finement I became worse, and consulted a doctor who
treated me for some time, but I seemed to be getting
worse. One of my friends then advised me to take
Warner’s Safe Cure. I began taking this medicine, and,
to my satisfaction, in a short time was completely re-
lieved, and have since remained quite well, and entirely
free from pain or inconvenience.”
From Mr. J. Beckett, 403 Bulwer-street, Perth, W.A.,
28th November, 1902 :
“ I have much pleasure in testifying to the great benefit
I derived from taking Warner’s Safe Cure and Warner’s
Safe Pills. A few years ago 1 suffered acutelj' from Liver
and Kidney troubles, and was advised by a friend to try
Warner’s remedies. I did so, and with the most happy
results. I was an entirely different man inside three
months. Since then I always keep a bottle in the house,
as I find a dose occasionally to be a first-class tonic and
pick-me-up.”
From Mr. Thomas Macgregor, Alpha Cottage, Bell*
street, Watson’s Bay, N.S.W., 22nd December,
1902:
“I have been a resident of this Bay for 25 years, and
during that time my calling has compelled me to be out
in all kinds of weather. What with this and being
irregular in eating, I contracted a complaint commonly
known as ‘ Being Livery.’ At all times when I have
felt an attack coming on I have bought a bottle of
Warner’s Safe Cure, which has always been enough to
restore my vigor and make me once more myself.”
-
INDIGESTION: DYSPEPSIA*
The torments which are suffered when the
digestive organs fail to do their work thoroughly
are, unfortunately, so well known to most of us
that it is not necessary for the various symptoms
of indigestion or dyspepsia to be given in detail
here.
There are several kinds of indigestion:—
Gastric Catarrh, in which the food becomes
covered with mucus, and consequently withstands
the action of the digestive juices; Gastric
Flatulency, the development of wind or gas;
Gastric Diarrhoea, caused by the food being
hurried through the digestive organs too fast; and
Constipation, which is a very prevalent and
obstinate feature, and must be altered, or diges-
tion cannot be expected to proceed.
Food must be digested, and be converted into
blood. Nature makes this one of her most
imperative laws of life. During the process of
digestion, food is entirely changed in composition
by the action of the juices of the internal organs
through which it passes. In the mouth it is
thoroughly mixed with the saliva. Then it is
swallowed, and enters the stomach, where it is
acted upon by the gastric juices, and becomes
partly liquefied. From the stomach it passes to
the smaller intestine—which is about 18ft. in
length—and there certain portions of the food are
liquefied by the bile and other juices. The food
thus made fluid is in a condition to be absorbed
into, and become a constituent part of, the blood.
The indigestible portion of the food is discharged
into the larger intestine, whence it is in turn ex-
pelled from the body, together with other refuse
matter.
Just as certainly as that it is necessary to life
that food must be absorbed, so, likewise, is it
essential that the blood must be in a condition to
absorb the food. Torpidity of the liver is the
chief cause of nearly every case of indigestion, and
when the liver is torpid the kidneys are always
sympathetically affected to a greater or lesser
extent. The blood, which should be transformed,
cleansed, and filtered by the kidneys and liver,
then contains urinary and biliary poisons, and
is therefore a feeble absorbent of nutriment. This
condition of the blood reacts upon the nervous
system of the digestive organs, and prevents the
flow and alters the quality of the digestive juices.
The entire nerve energy of a person suffering
from indigestion is weakened, owing to this con-
taminated condition of the blood, and the general
feeling of mental and physical depression which is
experienced during an attack of dyspepsia is due
to this cause.
The blood must be continuously purified by the
action of the liver and kidneys, or good digestion
cannot be expected to occur.
Warner’s Safe Cure cures indigestion and
dyspepsia simply because it restores the liver and
kidneys to health and activity, and, as a con-
sequence, the blood becomes pure; it absorbs
natriment freely, and conveys this nutriment to
the nerves throughout the body. Nature is
merely aided in her efforts to preserve a balance
in the manifold and complex processes of waste
and renewal by which life is maintained.
Remember, constipation or irregularity of the
bowels must be overcome. Warner’s Safe Pills
should therefore also be taken in sufficient quantity
to ensure relief.
Do not overload the stomach. Avoid tea,
coffee, alcoholic stimulants, and rich or fat foods.
Do not eat generously of any solid food.
LETTERS FROM PEOPLE CURED OF
INDIGESTION: DYSPEPSIA*
From Mr. John Gair, Tent Maker, 486 Bourke-street,
Melbourne, 13th February, 1903 :
'* For many years I was a martyr to Dyspepsia and
great nervous debility. I was aware of a great falling off
in mental activity and vigor, but, like thousands of
others, I neglected to pay attention to my health.
Attributing my condition to overwork, I resorted to
stimulants, but, after a time, these commenced to dis-
agree with my stomach, and I was compelled to seek
other means of relief. The distress of my stomach was as
bad as ever; I suffered from constipation ; I could not
sleep, and felt quite feverish. Upon the earnest recom-
mendation of a friend I decided to see what Warner’s
Safe Cure and Warner’s Safe Pills would do for me. At
first I noticed no perceptible improvement, but as the
medicine did not distress the stomach I persevered. In a
couple of weeks 1 could feel a marked change for the
better, and in two months I was quite cured. I could
eat well and without any distress; I could sleep well, and
the feeling; of weariness and pain all left me. I am now
in good health. uow
From Mrs. Clara Woolcock, Australia-street, Cam nor
down, N.S.W., 27th January, 1903 : "
“Some time ago I suffered from a terrible pain in mv
stomach, which I was told was due to Indigestion Mv
head would ache and I felt so giddy that at times I
would fall down. Then I was attacked with severe
pams in the back I tried several remedies, but without
benefiting me. Finally, I was advised to take Warned
Safe Cure, and three bottles cured me. I have Wn
quite well ever since.” een
From Mr. Arthur M. Lilleyman, Grocer, 189 Lake-
street, Perth, W.A., 11th November, 1902 :
“ Some few years ago I had occasion to take Warner'.
Safe Cure when suffering from a sluggish liver, which i
affected my digestive organs. I became very ill indeed "
and had to be very cautious what I ate, or had to suffer
a penalty afterwards. I had heard such good renorts of
Warner’s Safe Cure that I commenced to take it r
obtained great relief from the first bottle, and am uleksed
to state that in a few weeks I was quite cured I can
now eat almost anything and digest my food in a DroDer
manner, thanks to Warner’s Safe Cure." F p
From Mrs. W. B. Barnett, 221 Gillies-street, Ade-
laide, S.A., 28th January, 1903.
“For several years I suffered acutely from Indiges-
tion and general debility. I became so weak and desnon
dent that I consulted a medical man, but the relief I
obtained was only temporary, and I became as bad as
ever. I tried many different remedies, but none of them
did me any good. A friend then induced me to make a
trial of Warner's Safe Cure. After taking a few bottles
of that medicine I was perfectly cured, and have had no
recurrence of the symptoms since that time.”
From Mr. T. H. Cook, Belleview-street, Parramatta
N.S.W., 4th March, 1903.
“I have been a great sufferer for about 20 years from
Chronic Dyspepsia. During that time I can safelv say
that I have spent £2OO on doctors (and the best
of doctors), and only got at any time but slight
relief from their medicines. T suffered terribly
with pains in the chest and stomach, and also across
the shoulders and kidneys, besides suffering from
constipation. I always felt very drowsy, but could get
but little sleep. I have lived for years oh slop food •
meat, cabbage, potatoes, or pastry of any kind would’
almost kill me. I was recommended by a friend, about
12 months ago, to try what Warner’s Safe Cure and War-
ner’s Safe Pills would do for me. I took the advice, and
can truly say that since that time I have'felt like a new
man.”
From Mrs. J. Field, 230 Harris-street, Pyrmont,
N.S.W., 3Gth January, 1903.
“I suffered for over twelve months from Indigestion,
which gave me great pain between the shoulders, and in
my chest, after eating. I was not able to do my work,
and to sleep at night was out of the question. I tried all
sorts of medicines, but without avail, until I was advised
to take Warner’s Safe Cure. After faking six bottles all
pain left me, and I was quite cured.”
From Mr. H. C. Hunnam, 8 Howard-street, South
Yarra, Vic., llth March, 1903.
“1 had suffered for some considerable time from
Dyspepsia and mal-assimilation of food, accompanied
by headaches and dizziness. I was greatly reduced in
flesh, and my appetite was poor. Warner's Safe Cure
restored my appetite and corrected my stomach. I can
now eat anything edible without suffering, and am in
the best of good health.” , • ,
From Mrs. Agnes Old, 65 Hutt-street, Adelaide, S.A.,
10th November, 1903.
“ For several years I was troubled with Indigestion
and General Debility, and suffered great pain in my
chest and sides. Often the pain was so acute that I was
unable to perform my domestic duties, and was compelled
to lay up for days at a time. I tried many medicines,
but they gave me no relief, and only made me feel more
despondent and miserable. At this time Warner’s Safe
Cure was brought to my notice by friends who had used
that medicine with benefit. I decided to give it a trial,
and was pleased that I did so, as the first few bottles
acted like magic, and seemed to put-new life into me. I
continued to take the medicine for some little time
longer, and am grateful to say that I am now quite
restored to health, and never feel anything of the old
complaint.”
From Mr. G. A. Ward, 2 Excelsior-street, Leichhardt,
N.S.W. 12th February, 1903
“ Having been a sufferer from Indigestion in a severe
form for a long time, and obtaining no relief from other
medicines, 1 was at last persuaded to take Warner’s Safe
Cure, and I am happy to state that after taking two bottles
the trouble was removed, and I have had no return of the
complaint since.”
From Mr. J. E. Forsyth, 81 Lothian-street, North
Melbourne, Vic., 22nd February, 1903
** For some years I was ailing from Indigestion,
which caused me many sleepless nights and a great deal
of pain and inconvenience. I tried many different reme-
dies, without effect. I was induced to give Warner’s
Safe Cure a trial, and I am glad to say that after taking a
few bottles of the medicine I was quite cured. Four
years have since elapsed, and I have had no return of the
disorder.”
From Mrs. Mary M'Laughlan, 3 Union-street,
Pyrmont, N.S.W., 2nd February, 1903 :
“I have pleasure in adding my testimony as to the
efficacy of Warner’s Safe Cure in cases of Indigestion
and general debility. About nine years ago I was feeling
very bad with pains in my chest and head, and called a
doctor in to see me. Receiving no benefit from his treat-
ment, I resolved to give Warner’s Safe Cure a trial, with
the most satisfactory result. I thank Warner’s Safe Cure
for my good health to-day, as 1 have never suffered from
the complaint since.”
♦
RHEUMATISM.
.Rheumatism is the result of a disordered or acid
condition of the blood, produced by inactivity of
the kidneys and liver. Uric acid is not converted
into soluble urea, and accumulates in the blood
instead of being expelled in the urine.
Rheumatism may be either acute or chronic,
but there is no fine line of distinction to be drawn
between the two phases. The acute form may
develop into the chronic form, or the latter may
begin insidiously, and run an independent course.
The symptoms of acute rheumatism are well
defined. Usually there is a sense of coldness,
want of appetite, thirst, fever, and generally
sharp pain in one or more of the joints, which are
often swollen, hot, and red. Sometimes the large
joints are the seat of pain, but most frequently it
is the ankle, wrist, knee and elbow which are
attacked. The pain is apt to shift from one joint
to another. It may one day be in one extremity
the hand or foot—and, perhaps, the next day
the opposite extremity or limb will be seized with
the most violent pain and torture, whilst the part
first affected may be much easier, or even entirely
painless. When rheumatism is thoroughly
developed the pain is most severe, and becomes
excruciating upon the sligh test movement. Ihe
tongue is coated with a thick fur, except at the
edges and tip, which are red. A peculiar sour-
smelling sweat accompanies the fever. The urine
is high-colored and scanty, and the bowels consti-
pated.
In other instances the disease runs the same
fluctuating course, with great suffering to the
patient, but without any appearance of loca
inflammation.
The chief cause of acute rheumatism is exposure
to cold and damp, sleeping in damp sheets; living
in a damp house, especially a newly-built house,
which has not become thoroughly dry. The action
of cold and damp upon the skin is such that it
loses its power to give off moisture, consequently
the blood becomes poisoned with acid matter


which would, in the regular course, pass from the
body through the skin in perspiration.
Chronic rheumatism is a long continuation of
many of the symptoms of the acute form, and is
often accompanied by flatulent dyspepsia and
other forms of indigestion.
Rheumatism, in itself is not often fatal, but it
is a serious disease, owing to its tendency to react
upon the heart, kidneys, and other organs.
Warner’s Safe Rheumatic Cure is a specific for
rheumatic pains. In most cases it is advisable to
take Warner’s Safe Cure and Warner’s Safe Rheu-
matic Cure in alternate doses. The primary
cause of a rheumatic condition is an inefficient
action of the kidneys and liver, and rheumatism
always reacts upon the kidneys, owing to the
additional strain placed upon them through the
failure of the skin to perform its portion of the
work of removal of poisonous acids from the
blood. Warner’s Safe Cure possesses the power
of stimulating the kidneys and enabling them to
bear the increased strain, and the acids conse-
quently are passed from the body in the usual
manner.
If the bowels are constipated, they should be
regulated by taking Warner’s Safe Pills at bed-
time.
The diet should be plain. Eat more vegetables
than meat. Milk, especially skimmed milk, with
saline waters, may be taken freely. In severe
cases, tea, coffee, wine, beer and spirits should be
avoided.
From Mrs. Elizabeth Bosher, 77 Henderson-road,
Alexandria, N.S.W., 14 th February, 1903.
"Previous to leaving England, about 40 years ago,
I was a great sufferer from Rheumatism, which con-
tinued to trouble me for about 24 years after my arrival in
Australia. I consulted several doctors, but they all
failed to do me any good. I also tried various advertised
remedies with the same unsatisfactory result, and
despaired of ever getting relief from the pain. At
length I tried Warner’s Safe Cure —for what reason I
cannot tell you, because I did not expect to get any
more benefit from it than from the many other medi-
cines I had taken. I was, however, very pleased to
notice a decided change for the better after a short
course of Warner’s Safe Cure. The pains slowly but
surely left me, and at last I became quite free from them.
This happened 16 years ago, and I can honestly say that
1 have not suffered in the slightest degree from
Rheumatism since that time, so that I have to thank
Warner’s Safe Cure for perfectly and permanently curing
me. I must say that my case is very well known in
Alexandria, as I have for 40 years resided within half a
mile of my present address.”
From Mr. William Pollock M'Auslan, 10 Russell-
street, North Williamstown, Vic., sth October,
1901
“Some eight years ago I was laid up with a very per-
sistent attack of Rheumatism, and although I was under
the care of a leading medical man, at the end of four or
five months, instead of getting better, I was gradually
growing worse, and, in the doctor’s own words, ‘ would
never make any permanent improvement.’ Fearing that
his words might come true, I refused to take his medicine
any longer, and, as a last hope, gave Warner’s Safe Cure
and Warner’s Safe Rheumatic Cure a trial. From the
taking of the first dose I could see hope ahead, and in a
very little while all pain had left me, and I never had the
slightest sign of any relapse until my complete recovery
some seven weeks later. The doctor’s words, thanks to
Warner’s medicines, have not been verified, as from that
day, eight years ago, to this I have not had the slightest
symptom of that dreadful complaint.”
From Mrs. Nellie Davidson, 32 Keig-street, Newtown,
N.S.W., 16th February, 1903 :
“When living in Boggabri, about 18 months ago, I was
laid up for nearly the whole winter with Rheumatism,
and could not obtain any relief from any of the several
medicines I took. One day I saw a pamphlet, issued by
you, in which was described a case similar to my own,
and I decided to try whether Warner’s Safe Cure would
also benefit me. I took three bottles of the medicine,
and am very glad to say that I was completely cured, and
could go about my work cheerfully. I have not felt the
slightest symptom of the return of any rheumatic pain
since that time.”
From Mr. Albert E. Long, Port Pirie, S.A., 9th
January, 1903 :
"I am pleased to report that I have taken five bottles
of Warner’s Safe Cure for Rheumatism, and that the
result was marvellous. The pain has all left me, I have
gained a stone in weight, and am now in good health.”
From Mrs. S. A. Slater, 651 Harris-street, Ultimo,
Sydney, N.S.W.
"About, eight years ago I was a great sufferer from
Rheumatism, often having to take to my bed for three
or four weeks at a time. 1 tried all kinds of medicines
without getting any better, and at last gave up all hope
of ever getting well. Several of my friends recommended
me to take Warner’s Safe Cure, but I was so sick and tired
of taking different medicines that for some time I refused
to follow the advice. I gave in at length, and now I am
,i v° sa y that lam entirely free from my old complaint
and have not had a touch of it for about seven years,
thanks to Warner’s Safe Cure.”
From Mr. Headly Hanigan, Bomaderrv, N.S.W.,
23rd June, 1902
, I suffered from my kidneys, and was then
attacked by Rheumatism, and could obtain no relief
rom any remedy until I tried Warner’s Safe Cure and
Varners Safe Rheumatic Cure. After taking a few
ottles I gradually began to mend, and keeping on with
me medicine, I became as strong and healthy as ever.”
GOUT.
Gout may be described as a special form of
rheumatism. The immediate cause is the deposi-
tion about the joints of the big toe, ankle, knees,
fingers, etc., of particles of uric acid. In health
all uric acid formed should pass off with the urine.
When it is retained in the blood it is deposited,
sometimes as gravel in the kidneys, and some-
times in the joints, muscles, and sciatic nerve,
causing rheumatism, sciatica and gout.
There is often a constitutional or hereditary
tendency to gout. It is usually associated with
disorder of the digestive organs and of the
kidneys. It is common to rich and poor alike,
but high living and insufficient robust exercise
are exciting causes.
Gout may be either acute or chronic. It
generally takes the form of “fits of the gout.”
The intervals between the fits vary. Usually
there is an attack every two or three years for
eight or ten years, and then the attacks become
more frequent, the disease having a tendency to
become chronic, when it may terminate in com-
pletely crippling the patient, or even in death, by
the shifting of the gout to the heart or the brain.
An attack of gout is simply an effort of nature
to remove from the blood substances which act as
blood poisons. It usually comes on suddenly.
The first intimation is a spasm of the thighs. The
subject may go to bed at night feeling well, but
will be rudely awakened by an agonising pain in
one of the joints. After two or three days of tor-
ture the limb will swell, the tearing, crushing, or
gnawing pain gradually becoming less as the
swelling increases.
To prevent the development of latent gout,
plain living and regular and sufficient exercise are
essential. To cure it, radical means must be
adopted. As already stated, the active cause of
gouty disorders is uric acid in the blood. When
this is removed the disorder is overcome.
Warner’s Safe Rheumatic Cure and Warner’s
Safe Cure should be taken in alternate doses, and
the bowels kept regular by Warner’s Safe Pills.
Warner’s Safe Cure puts the kidneys in condition
to fulfil their allotted task of taking uric acid and
other impurities from the blood, whilst Warner’s
Safe Rheumatic Cure is a specific for all gout and
rheumatic pains.
A plain diet is necessary. Abstain from stimu-
lants. Vegetable is better than animal food.
Milk, especially skimmed milk, and saline waters
should be taken freely. In very severe cases, tea,
coffee, spirits, wine, beer, and tobacco should be
avoided.
From Mr. R. A. Thompson, Mining Engineer, 148 Ade-
laide-terrace, Perth, W.A., 21st July, 1902.
“ When writing you, some time back, as to the efficacy
of Warner’s Safe Pills in Biliousness, I mentioned being
about to try a course of Warner’s Safe Cure for Gout.
The result of taking the medicine was simply wonderful,
as many people in Perth can testify, and I speak grate-
fully of the benefit I received. The action of the medicine
was this : First, a gradual toning up of the stomach, then
better appetite, purer blood making, and slow (at first)
but sure disappearance of the Gout. The food taken
during the course was plain, but wholesome. lam glad
also to tell you that many of my acquaintances have derived
great benefit from both the Safe Pills and the Safe Cure.”
ANAEMIA.
In its acute form anaemia i 3 caused by a direct
loss of blood, such as the bursting of a blood vessel,
bleeding at the nose, vomiting blood, or any other
way in which large quantities of blood escape from
the body. Complete rest and a nourishing diet
are absolutely necessary in cases of this nature.
It is the chronic form of anaemia, however,
which is unfortunately so common. This, too, is
often caused by direct loss of blood, some persons
having a constitutional tendency to bleed. Women
suffer more from chronic anaemia than men. Not
only have they less blood in proportion to their
weight than men, but they are more exposed to
conditions which produce the disease.
Apart from actual loss of blood, the chief cause
of chronic anaemia is want of proper nourishment.
The subject either eats too little, or the food
eaten is not assimilated, and does not nourish the
blood.
Everyone must eat food in sufficient quantity
to replace the natural waste of the body, and not
only must such food be eaten, but it must be
absorbed into the blood, or good health is an
impossibility.
An abundance of light and fresh air are also
necessary to the formation of pure blood, as well
as a moderate amount of outdoor exercise.
It must be borne in mind that it is the food
we digest which makes blood. No drugs or
tonics can ever make a single drop of blood.
Therefore it is imperative that the digestive
system must be in proper working condition, or
the food eaten is largely useless.
Warner’s Safe Cure is a natural remedy for
anaemia. By its specific action upon the liver and
kidneys, all waste products of the body are
removed through the regular channels, and the
stomach and digestive organs are consequently
supplied with blood which is in a condition to
take up nutriment and absorb it freely. With
the absorption of food appetite returns, the blood
becomes rich, strength is gained, the pale or
sallow cheek flushes with the bloom of health, and
existence becomes the pleasure it should be.
When any constipation or irregularity of the
bowels is present, Warner’s Safe Pills should be
taken in sufficient number to give relief.
In most cases of aruemia, Jolly’s Duchesss
Pills will be found of great benefit in expediting
recovery.
The diet should consist of easily digested,
nourishing foods, such as poached and soft-boiled
eggs, boiled rice, milk, buttermilk, gruels, &c.
Meat of any kind should, at first, be eaten spar-
ingly. If but little can be eaten at a meal, some
food should be taken every three hours during the
day.
♦
BLOOD DISORDERS.
Warner’s Safe Cure, by restoring the kidneys
and liver to health and vigor, causes all impurities
to be naturally removed from the blood. The
blood being thus rendered pure, any disorders
arising from its.enfeebled or contaminated condi-
tion cease to exist. See articles on “The Liver,”
“The Kidneys,” and “ Indigestion.”
From Mr. William J. Meek, Perth Dye works, 40
George-street west, Sydney, N.S.W., 11th February,
“ About September, 1895, I suffered from a very bad
affection of the skin. One of my legs swelled to nearly
twice its normal size, and I could not bear my weight on
it. The affections soon spread, in a minor degree, to
other parts of my body, the skin peeling off and sores
forming. I was attended by a doctor for about four
months, and he gave me up, and said that I would never
get out of bed again. Finally, I was recommended to try
Warner’s Safe Cure, and after taking four bottles of that
medicine I was quite well again. All my friends, as well
as the doctor himself, were very surprised to see me about
again.”
»
TO WOMEN.
No woman can afford to remain in ignorance of
the power possessed by Warner’s Safe Cure and
its remarkable health restoring properties. Every
woman should read the following typical letters
from members of her sex who have cause to be
grateful that they sought the aid of Warner’s
Safe Cure in time of need.
From Mrs. M. A. West, 89 Duke-street, Burnley, Vic.,
17th February, 1903 :
“ For several years I was prostrated by a disease the
doctors could give no name to. I was treated by some of
the leading physicians in England, but not one of them
gave me any hope of recovery. The symptoms were
extreme nervousness, loss of appetite, great depression of
spirits, chronic pain in my back and head, general weak-
ness, loss of flesh, and my urine was thick and ropy. As
the doctors could do nothing for me,.it was decided that
I should go to Australia, in the hope that the change of
climate would benefit me, though our family physician
said that I might not live out the voyage. However, I
started, accompanied by my husband. I was very ill all
the way over, and landed in Australia in a very weak
state. I was again treated by a doctor, but gradually got
worse, and began to think that death would be a relief.
At this time an old lady advised me to try Warner’s
Safe Cure. As a last resource I did so. After taking the
third bottle I began to improve in health, getting
stronger and brighter each day, greatly to the surprise of
myself and friends. All pain and weakness left me, my
appetite returned, and in a short time I was quite cured.
I gained several pounds in weight, and, thanks to War-
ner’s Safe Cure, I am now in good health.”
From Mrs. A. Frenz, Piper-street, South Broken Hill,
N.S.W., 14th January, 1903.
“ A few years ago, when in Victoria, X suffered excru-
ciating pains in my body, especially in the chest and left
side around the heart. I consulted three doctors ; one
said I had a tumor in my side, another that my heart
was affected, and the other something else. Medicine
was prescribed for me by one of them, which I took for
some time. I then came to Broken Hill, and still con-
tinued to take the same medicine ; but all to no purpose,
for I was getting worse and weaker all the time, and
became so low that I thought I was going to die. I had
read about Warner’s Safe Cure, and decided to give up
the doctor’s medicine and try the former. The first
bottle I took gave me so much relief that I continued
the treatment, in conjunction with Warner’s Safe Pills,
getting better and stronger each week. My appetite
returned, I could eat and sleep well, and all bodily pain
left me. I have gained in weight, and am now quite
cured.”
From Mrs. Eleanor Robertson, Railway-road, Subiaco,
W.A., 29th November, 1902.
“ I am pleased to state that I have taken Warner’s Safe
Cure when suffering from extreme weakness and prostra -
tion, caused by general debility and Rheumatic Gout,
and have derived the greatest benefit from it. I know
many other women who have also found Warner’s Safe
Cure beneficial in the treatment of their complaints.”
From Mrs. Sarah Maughan, 398 Graf ton-street.
Woollahra, Sydney, 18th February, 1903
“ About twenty years ago I had occasion to lift a sick
friend from her bed, and in doing so severely strained
myself. The immediate effects were terrible pains jn the
chest and back, and a peculiar twitching sensation in the
muscles ; but later on I was attacked by paralysis in the
left side. I consulted several doctors, but they did me
no good, so I tried the hospitals. Ido not think there is
a single hospital in Sydney of which I was not a patient,
but it was all to no purpose ; the hospital doctors could
not cure me, and I went home. I got so bad again that
I had to call in a doctor, who told me that I had a very
short time to live. J was then advised to take Warner’s
Safe Cure, and decided to give it a trial as a last resource.
After taking eight bottles I gradually began to get the
use of my limbs again. In all I took thirteen bottles,
and by that time, I am glad to say, I was perfectly cured.
It is 19 years since the paralysis left me, and I have not
had the slightest symptom of a return of the complaint.’’
From Mrs. Emma Darvell, Lady’s Nurse, 8 Carlton
street, Prahran, Vic., 12th March, 1901
“ I am pleased to report the benefit I derived from
taking Warner’s Safe Cure and Warner’s Safe Pills.
After many years of pain and suffering from kidney and
liver complaint, I, who was accustomed to minister to
others, was brought to a bed of sickness myself, and the
doctors could give me no hope of recovery or relief, they
giving me but a short time to live. At last I tried
Warner’s Safe Cure. From the first bottle I began to
improve in health. Gradually the pains left ine. I con-
tinued to take the medicine for some time, until I was
perfectly cured and sound in body and mind. I have
continued to keep well ever since, though some years
have elapsed since that time. I may state that the
doctors were more than surprised to see me up again. I
have heard of many other cases during my professional
career which have been cured by Warner’s Safe Cure.”
From Mrs. Margaret M'Millan, 9 Bendigo-street,
Collingwood, Vic., 18th March, 1901 (
“My mother was a martyr to dropsy and gravel com-
plaint. Her arms, body, and legs were swollen to an
alarming degree. She had severe pains all over her body.
She was under the treatment of several doctors, without
deriving any benefit; in fact, she was getting weaker and
worse every day. The doctors then decided that she
would have to undergo an operation to get the water
away and reduce the swelling. Before allowing this to be
done we determined to give her a course of Warner’s Safe
Cure. The effect of this medicine on the water was soon
noticeable. The urine became clear. The swelling
gradually disappeared, and she began to improve in
health and strength until she was finally cured. She has
had no return of the complaint since."
From Mrs. Annie Harris, of Charlton, George-street,
Norwood, S.A., Ist October, 1900:
“ About seven years ago I contracted a sevcro internal
complaint, and was in a very critical state. The doctor
attending me told me that if I lived I should be a sufferer
all my lifetime. llis treatment was quite useless in
giving me relief. After two or three years I got tired of
paying doctors’ fees for no benefit, and hearing of
Warner’s Safe Cure I gave it a trial. I took in all five
bottles, and am thankful to state that- I am perfectly
cured. The medical man was genuinely surprised at such
a wonderful result. lam now ns well as it is possible to
be, and give Warner’s Safe Cure the whole credit for
accomplishing what doctors deemed impossible. Hoping
that ladies suffering as I did will profit, I am writing to
you now. My mother considered that her life was saved
bv f h*> use of Warner’s Safe Cure in a somewhat similar
•omplaint.”
From Mrs. R. L. Head, Vine Cottage, Second-street
Port Pirie, S.A., 4th October, 1901
“ It is with the greatest pleasure that I write to tell
you of the great and lasting benefit I derived from the
use of Warner’s Safe Cure, for I feel that but for that
medicine I should now be in my grave. I had been suffer-
ing for a very long time from a complaint common to
women of middle age. I was losing flesh at an alarming
rate. The doctors could do nothing for me, and I com-
menced to use Warner’s Safe Cure with a very forlorn
hope. Greatly to the surprise of myself and friends I
began to improve in health from the first bottle. I con-
tinued to take the medicine, and gained heulth and
strength every day. In a few weeks I was up and about
my household work, and am now quite stout and in
good health.”
From Mr. H. Morris, Goodwood-road, Adelaide, S.A.,
10th December, 1901:
“ Some few years ago I wrote you telling you of the
benefit 1 had derived from a few bottles of Warner’s Safe
Cure. Since that time my wife’s health became very
poor. As a result of a hot climate, nursing and rearing a
large family of children, and having to attend to her
household duties, she suffered from severe pains in her
back and sides, sleepless nights, and loss of appetite.
Having cause to remember the good effect of Warner’s
Safe Cure in my own case, I persuaded her to try the
medicine also. She did so, and lam pleased to say that
the result was her complete restoration to health."
From Mrs. D. Parker, Wilkinson-street, Parkside,
S.A., 16t-h December, 1901:
“ I have taken Warner’s Safe Cure on several occasions
during the past twelve years. The Spring and early
Summer have always been trying times to me. I have
not been ill enough to take to my bed, but would always
have that tired, depressed feeling women are so subject
to, and would feel quite run down and not fit for
business. On no occasion has Warner’s Safe Cure failed
to restore my health.
Warner’s Safe Cure Remedies are sold by
all chemists and medicine vendors.
A treatise containing full particulars will be
sent free on application to H. H. WARNER
and CO., LIMITED; Australasian Branch,
Melbourne.
■Size, SJ" x Si" x
We are Direct Importers
and have
for Sale—
SNOW DUPLEX PUMPS
(all sizes
for all
purposes)
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shafting, Hangers, Bearings,
Collars, etc. Engineers’ Tools and Fittings, Valves, Cocks, Gauges, etc. Cast, Tool and Mining Steel, Wire
Ropes and all Requisites for Contractors, Engineers Saw Mills, and Mining Proprietors.
SCRuIION & CO., Ltd
97 CLARBRrCB STREET, SYDNEY. "
Hotelkeepers ! Make your own SODA WATER
Machines will be supplied on the hire
purchase system. Very easy terms to
clients giving financial references.
By Eckersley’s Improved Aerated Water Machines at a cost of
V 2 Pence Per Dozen.
Lemonade, Ginger Ale, etc., at 4 Pence Per Dozen.
THE FOLLOWING LETTER was received by us a few days since, and goes to prove that our claim to superiority in the manufacture of Aerated Water Machines i fully
established :
“ Having given your machines a thorough trial for three years we desire to inform you that we are more than satisfied with results obtained. We may state
that we were unfortunate enough to be misled into buying two of ■■ ’s make of machines which we discarded and replaced with yours. Send on another
machine by first steamer.”
Belo v we submit the names of a few of our clients to whom reference may be made by prospective purchasers :
Williams and Hicks, Great Southern Hotel, Rutherglen, Vic.; Fred. Kettle, Hotel, Wangaratta; J. G. Gardner, Hotel, Wangaratta; Lukins and Masters (0.T.A.), Hotel,
Corrijong, Vic. ; Robert Bair (C.T. A.) Hotel, Leongatha, Vic. ; George Talmage, Lessee, Vic. Railways Refreshment Rooms, Ballarat, Bacchus Marsh, Geelong, Melbourne;
R. M. Kosminski (C.T.A.) Hotel, Nhill ;R. W. .McGowan, Queenstown, Tas. ;D. E. Ryan, Imperial Hotel, Hobart, Tas. ;S. T. Carberry. Star of the East, Nannine, W.A.; R. G.
Drummond (C.T. A.) Hotel, Hamilton, Vic.; Walter Burbury, Tuppal Hotel, Finley, N.S.W. ; F. W. Scholz, Culcairn, N.S.W. ; W. Peter, Court House Hotel, Wilcannia;
W itcombe and C'o., Hillston, N.S.W. ; T. Barclay, Royal Hotel, White Cliffs, N.S.W.
We are also Manufacturers of small Machines for Cafes, Confectioners, and private use.
Wri o^t I :EGKERSLEY & SONS, 214 Queen-street, Melbourne.


The Field of Temptation
In which to purchase seasonable gifts for self and friends is extensive and alluring. In the centre stand the
well =stocked warehouses and attractive showrooms of
BAKER & ROUSE PROPY. LTD.
where heavy shipments of new goods have been recently unpacked, consisting of every variety and description
of PHOTOGRAPHIC MATERIALS. CAfIERAS by all leading makers from the most costly to the least
expensive. LENSES, BINOCULARS, etc., of all well-known brands.
tea
*£l
*
u PREMO ” and “POCO ” Cameras in all styles, with which can be used the
wonderful “PREMO” FILM PACKS.
Also the new “AUSTRAL” Cameras for pictures on ROLL FILMS, PLATES,
or FILMS and PLATES combined, in sizes from 2\ inches square to
Prices ranging from 6s. to £4 4s. All equally well built, strong, light,
and beautifully finished.
n pTI f* A I I A ]V[ Tpn I\T C for all kinds of work, and all materials
1 1 and accessories for OIL, GAS, or
LIMELIGHT. Slides in endless variety, including new ILLUSTRATED
HYMNS and SHORT STORIES.
All patterns of EDISON PHONOGRAPHS and NEW RECORDS. The new
“COLUMBIA” DISC GRAPHOPHONE and RECORDS.
7 ﬂ
H L“*2.
m wﬁ'T—E‘T i -
{‘5 } M W WW“ 2" ~..
‘ ‘ 3‘ H ‘1 1m ‘ ‘r‘ _,
‘11 M I” i ‘M ’ m w ’
E E!“ N HE "E ‘. 1
‘ a T1 “+_\ 11‘ E;,.-.
; 33g' :3 'rj \“-:«~;. {0“ unﬁt—1' m»
réETZ=ELigjf -.-:_:-‘ W W
I ‘ .57, ‘ l k;’f WWW“ ‘
“ AUSTRAL ”
DRY PLATES and BROiTIDE PAPERS always new and fresh from the factory. "Ml
Equal to the best
imported. —^
’Ti < **
I , w >«
REPAIRS to all INSTRUMENTS and
""" —— APPARATUS by a staff of
skilled mechanics on the premises.
The Largest and Best Assorted Stock
—OF—
PHOTOGRAPHIC REQUISITES
IN THB COMMONWEALTH.
(r
1 Il UJinu iii i j
Baker & Rouse Propy. Ltd., 375 George-st., Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
w
from Weak Nerves, Impure Blood, the Kidneys, Rheumatism, the Spine and Bladder,
WOMEN WHO AWAY from Anaemia, Poverty of Blood, Leucorrhma,
™ Bil * MSSM 1 and Internal Complaints, &c., &c.,
/ CHAT WITH YOU. DON’T LOSE HEART! DON’T DESPAIR! DON’T DIE!
OASSMUSSENS HERBAL ALFALINE SPECIFICS
Have Cured Many Thousands. They have held their own against all comers for over 20 years,
and have never been known to fail. THEY WILL CURE YOU.
DO YOU KNOW ; ; .
That Herr Rassmnssen possesses the most wonderful Specific Remedies for the
Jjloocl ana .Nerves ?
That Herr Rassmussen guarantees his Alfaline Herbal Remedies to Cure ?
130 YOU KNOW . . .
That Herr Rassmussen’s Remedies are purely Herbal, and contain no mercury or any
other mineral poisons ?
That Herr Rassmussen has Thousands of Testimonials ?
DO YOU KNOW
Herr Rassmussen’s Alfaline Herbal Remedies Never Fail to Cure?
818
ALFALINE VITALITY NERVE PILLS.
This remedy can be depended on to cure all kinds of Nervons Diseases, Debility, Vital
YV eakness, Despondency, Melancholia, Specks before the Eyes, Want of Bash-
fulness, and entll stop the Waste from the System which is so the
Spine, Brain and Nerves. It entirely builds up and restores a broken-down Nervous
fri™k„d rrl po»“ed ! ordi ° ary CourM ' 235 - M - 1 s ™ iier *>”•
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS
Are a guaranteed Cure for the worst forms of Blood Diseases, no matter how caused or
of how long standing, whether secondary or any other stage. This remedy completely
purifies, c'eans and purges the Blood of all kinds of Impurities, and leaves the system
as pure as a new-born baby. It contains no Mercury, like all other remedies do used
for the B ood and Skm, and will entirely Cure all Diseases of the Skin and Blood.
Gravel and Stones m the Bladder, and all complaints of the Urinary passage. Special
Powerful Course, 435. 6d.j Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.j Smaller Boxes at 12s. and 6s. each.
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS
Never fail to Cure all forms of Amsemia, and entirely Cure and Prevent the most fear-
ful Wasting Diseases, which defy all other forms of treatment. They are particularly
effective in the treatment of all kinds of Internal Female Complaints, and being entirely
harmless, and most wonderfully effective for strengthening and thickening the Blood and
building up the Nerves. Course, 235. 6d.; Boxes, 12s. and 6s.
ALFALINE LIVER & KIDNEY PILLS.
This is absolutely the world’s best remedy for Constipation, Indigestion, Wind, Heart-
burn, Flatulence, and all complaints of the Liver and Kidneys. Boxes, Is.
ALFALINE RHEUMATIC PILLS
Cure Rheumatism, Gout and Sciatica. Boxes, 125., 6s. and 3s.
ALFALINE ASTHMA & COUGH PILLS
Will Cure Asthma and Cough, Consumption, Bronchitis, and all Lung and Chest troubles.
Courses, 235. 6d.; Boxes, 6s.
ALFALINE PILE POWDERS, a won-
derful remedy for completely eradicating
both Internal and External Blind and
Bleeding Piles. Gives instant relief.
ALFALINE CORN CURE. Is.
ALFALINE FAT-REDUCING POW-
DER is entirely harmless, and is the
best fat-reducing powder in the world.
Boxes, 6s. and 3s.
ALFALINE OINTMENT. Is.
ALFALINE EMBROCATION, excel-
lent for Cyclists, Cure Stiff Joints, Gout,
and Chapped Skin. Bottles, Is.
ALFALINE HEADACHE TABLETS.
Instantaneous and permanent cure. Is.
ALFALINE HAIR RESTORER.
Bestores the Hair, 6s.
ALFALINE EUCALYPTUS. Bottles,ls.
ALFALINE WORM TABLETS. Is.
COMPLEXION BEAUTIFIER. 65.&35.
BOOK POSTED FREE.—A
Valuable Book containing Valuable Advice for all Complaints Posted Free and Unobserved.
TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALITY.
All correspondence will be held strictly confidential. Remedies will be posted in plain cover, and
therefore entirely unobserved, both from the Head Office and Agencies. Make Cheques and Money
Orders payable to HANS RASSMUSSEN. Register letters containing Money, and when Special Advice is required, address letters as follows
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S Head Office: 547 George St., Sydney
Herr. Rassmussen’s Alfaline Herbal Remedies can also be obtained forom his Agencies, as follows :
BB.ISBA.WE: 309 QUEEHT STREET.
ADELAIDE: 15 PULTENEY ST. | W.A.: PERTH, 481 HAY St. | KALCOORLIE : 111 HANNAN ST. | N.Z.: 91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON.


The Two Greatest Smokes on Earth.
jp* 1
_ "tS* !S /.
■■■//
yr*>
m
-.m
1 or 1
r,i
(i
hi ®
it
I=^lll
±1
J±
* § «*
<#^l
5TU 1 irij
VESUVIUS
AND
m
v.z
$
4
if
HAVELOCK )
PURE VIRGINIA TOBACCO
ESTABLISHED 1872 PRIZE MEDALS
Flake
Cuh
DARK & AROMATIC. PLUG OR CUT ON tins).
Haveloc*
TOBACCO
PETER FLEMING & SON,
FURNISHING
& GENERAL
IRONMONGERS
Hardware and Metal Merchants,
ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
Plumbers', Gasfitters', and Tinsmiths' Requisites a Speciality. Acetylene Gas Fittings, Burners and Carbide.
STATION SUPPLIES.
Galvanised Iron, Fencing Wire,
Barb Wire, Wire Netting, etc.
HOUSEHOLD SUPPLIES.
Including Baths, Stoves, Cooking
and Culinary Utensils, Mangles,
Every Description of Troughing and Tanks.
Wringles, Hose, Heaters, etc., etc.
White Lead, Oils, Colors
and Brushware.
IRONMONGERY
Builders
Storekeepers
Farmers
Stations
MARSHALL’S LOG BURNER. McLennan & Co.,
jr.f f
ms
Mclennan & co.
Alice and Albert-sts.,
BRISBANE.
Machinery, Hardware, Iron and Metal Merchants,
IMPORTERS of all kind* of Machinery and Agricultural Implements, Mining and Btation Supplies, and
Mill requisites; Bar, Rod, Sheet, Angle and Tee Iron, Boiler Plates, Tubes and Mountings, Wrought
and Cast Iron Pipes and Fittings Tor Steam and Water, Gun-
Metal Steam Fittings, Valves, Cocks, etc., Asbestos and
Rubber Packing, Leather and Rubber Belting, Boilers, Pulleys,
Shafting, Plummer Blocks, Couplings, etc., etc.
Sole Queensland Agents for—
Marshall, Sons <fc Co., Ltd., Gainsborough, Portable and Fixed Engines.
“ Worthington ” Pumps and Pumping Machinery for all duties.
Merryweather and Sons, London, Fire Engines and Apparatus.
•T. Sagar and Co., Halifax, Woodworking Machinery.
Phillips and Son, Birmingham, Fire Proof Safes and Strong Room Doors.
Gandy Belt Manufacturing Co., Seacombe, England.
“ Dodge” Wood Split Pulleys (manufactured in Canada).
“ Key ” Brand Horse Shoe Nails.
“ Eclipse ” Lubricating Oils. “ Aldershot ” Pig Lead.
“Sharpies’ Cream Separators and Dairy Utensils.
“ Iron Age” Garden and Farm Implements. . .
Johnston Harvester Co. “Bonnie” Binders, Chain Drive Mowers, Giobe
Hay Rakes, Patent Disc Cultivators, etc., etc.
“ Appleton ” Goodhue Galvanised Steel Windmills.
F. Mettersand Co., Patent Cooking Stoves, and Washing Coppers and
F rames.
3 .. 3,: .-.--,
32.}. h 1.3.7312: ‘4'
r.. ".- “) ‘ ”-1.“ 1 LC
is -- :_-‘: 1 1 32-21 -
1"]; i" M“- , 3‘3}? ’f' V:E____‘?;«],.’. ‘.{- .
:‘-&Z. - . $11
.‘ 4.! _.‘ " 13:12.} p 1; 1
“WORTHINGTON” PUMP. “ Worthington ”
Pumps are the world’s standards.
McLennan & Co., Queensland Agents.


Australian Mutual Provident Society.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Next Distribution of the Profits
as at 31st December, 1903.
Policies issued before the Close of the Year will share In the bonus to be then divided.
The Amount of Cash Bonus divided among: the members for the single year 1902 was £558,865.
(All Bonuses vest on Policies attaining a duration of two years.)
Persons desirous of effecting assurances with this Society are particularly requested to note the above carefullv
and to see that their applications are sent in early, either direct or through any of the Society Agents so as to re an
the benefit of this year’s Bonus. m~ Accumulated Funds, £19,000,000 ; Annual Income! £2 530 000 P
Directors— Thomas Littlejohn, Esq., Chairman ; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L C Denutv-Chairman ■ The Hnn rc
Winchcombe, Esq ’M.P.; Senator J. T. Walker ; fcSSSE Short?Esq.?a„d J?mes
Burns, Esq. General Manager and Actuary— Bichard Teece, F.1.A., F.F. A., F.S.S. 1
Head Office-87 Pitt Street, Sydney. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Flavelle, Roberts $ Sankey, Ltd,
Lapidaries . ♦ * .
Gem Merchants and. •
Manufacturing Jewellers
BRISBANE and
ROCKHAMPTON
igJKJQ
a
6
7
9
10
No. L—3 Fine Brilliant Diamonds £4O, smaller to £10; with 1
Sapphire and 2 Diamonds, £25.
No. 2.-5 Fine Brilliant Diamonds from £l2 to £69; 2 Diamonds
and 3 Sapphires, £lO to £25.
No. 3.—3 Fine Opals and 2 Brilliant Diamonds, £9 ; 3 Fine Pearls
and 2 Diamonds, £l2.
No. 4.—1 Diamond and 1 Fine Sapphire, £7 10s.
No. 5.-3 Brilliant Diamonds in Gipsy setting, £lO to £l6.
No. 6—3 Queensland White Topazes and 2 Queensland Rubies £6.
No. 7.—1 Queensland Yellow Sapphire (very brilliant), £5 ; 1
Queensland Ruby (very handsome), £4 4s.
No. B.—l Fine Pearl and Diamond Cluster, £2B ; 1 Yellow
Sapphire and Diamond Cluster, £23.
No. 9—l Queensland White Topaz & 2 Queensland Rubies, £4 10s.
No. 10—1 Opal and Pearl Cluster, £3 10s.
No. 11—2 Queensland Olivines and Diamonds, £7.
No. 12.—1 Queensland White Topaz (as brilliant as the
Diamond), £4.
No. 13.—Marquise of Brilliant Diamonds, £lB to £3O.
a —jf
3s
m.
12
Send for Booklet on “The Gem
Products of Queensland.”
WE HOLD THE LARGEST STOCK OF UNSET OEMS IN AUSTRALIA
—OVER 100,000 OEMS ON HAND.
Given Away
FOR ONE MONTH ONLY.
We make this Special Offer to advertise our
OSTRICH TIPS.
EXTRA LARGE CHOICE WHITE or
CREAM TIPS, 15 inches long,
§sjr
5(“
EACH
POST FREE.
WORTH THEIR WEIGHT IN GOLD.
Every line we sell is dressed from the Raw Material at
Our Own Factory. We offer them direct from the
Farm to You. All Intermediate Profits are Saved.
IV N
sii
do D
Illustrated Price List Post Free.
These Lovely Rich Plumes have been Specially Imported by us, and are the Finest South
African Feathers ever seen in Australia. Thousands have been sold, and we do not know one
having failed to give entire satisfaction. Write for one To-Day. Send Postal Note. You r
money refunded if you are not satisfied with these feathers.
Miller’s Feather Shop,
[Mention Thb Bulletin],
Corner of Bourke and
Swanston Sts., Melbourne
M
MNMESIM
M
IRIFLE AND PISTQI*
CARTRiDQES
“ It’s the shots that hit that count” Winches-
ter Rifle and Pistol Cartridges hit, that is,
shoot accurately, and strike a good, hard, pen-
etrating blow. They are loaded with great
care and precision, and made in calibers
suitable for all kinds of game, from rabbits
to grizzly bears. If you want reliable ammu-
nition, buy the time-tried Winchester make.
FOR SALE BY ALL DEALERS.
THS
‘PLUM’
V “"4““ \
”‘Hw‘ “h" M '
‘ ‘ ‘ ‘ ‘ I m ‘17,
Wmmmmmm . V' o .
dllllHluu'll
a ‘ o .
THE
‘PLUM’
Gr 1:1.. „V- This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow
rdire that ie ron’.uv' u never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the
their merits ivi,’mu and ’ havin P had them in use for a number of years,
tneirmerits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR JTOR TCYVO YEARS.
Th« “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 78. Qd.
“RAZOLEO” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
ground, ring
exact kind of
, can testify to
fmcE
f Single Razor, in strong 1 Leather Case, 10s 6d; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leathor Case, 2lt».
t Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful oase, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the World.
jy Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
e©i« Agents CRAIQ & AITKEN, 680 George*st.,
Sydney.
..V
■<:*■
m
m
SMOKE
The Unrivalled
World Renownei
BRIAR
PIPES
LARGEST DEPOT:
231 Clarence St,
SYDNEY.
I
/
H.F. SMITH
BRISBANE
*
21/-
21/-
Convincing Proof
Gunnedah,
N.S. Wales
Received Solid Silver Keyless
Hunting Watch, 21/-, in good
order ; it keeps perfect time and is
splendid value—best in Austral-
asia.
Yours truly,
JOSEPH BENNETT.
Posted Free to any part of
Australia.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue
Queensland Leading Jeweller.
H. F.
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE ;
And at IPSWICH and TOOWOOMBA.
w
Xmas Presents & New Year’s Gifts
A few of our USEFUL NOVELTIES in Solid Silver.
Limit of space only permits us to illustrate a few lines from the many hundreds
we have in stock. So kindly send for our latest Illustrated Sheets of Xmas Goods
POST FREE.
4er IM/ "M
«xx; ‘ “595. m ‘3“ IE“! V g .. )
"1'79' ‘ ./JN\\§} »» 32, (($35) “I ’1 W :1le BE ‘ “‘1‘“, ‘ ., 1
”mm wrwWwiMse ' “%...1\,,‘ y W”MM 53.13.?
“319M.”11;;‘339'2w1‘ﬂl‘3ﬂ/‘4 51%?) “mm“:hﬁ H‘ 1‘3” mi)“ WW3]
A?) "M31 @iT‘VWhﬁ‘r‘rrmm ;: ‘. M * 31””17
7‘ ’QWJ’L
POST FREE.
j ‘3;
' “m? 1
“2‘?ng i
: 7 .Z w ‘.
, r???) ~J
L "A? ESL“.
5“ (Rf-Kw;
Sord Silver Mounted
Coirbs, 20 Patterns,
5/6, 7/6, 9/6, 11/6
Silver Hall-marked Hair Brushes, with best hand-drawn Bristles.
We have the finest assortment in the city. Only the best lines stocked.
17/6, 20/-, 22/6, 25/-, 30/-, 40/-. Hat Brushes, 10/- to 15/- each.
Solid Silver Cloth
Brushes,
12/6 to 17/6.
Latest Novelty.
Solid Silver Photo.
Pendant and
Magnifying- Glass
Combined, 5/6.
AH Goods Post
Free to any
part of the
Commonwealth.
‘7’" “z 2,; 4, 7
§%»% 83% 9
" " |“ *-- .V
“93%wa 7,0,; ~ g
was)» 4 [{[aﬁﬁxwvmf “if
Our Motto is —
Highest Quality
combined with
Lowest Prices.
Solid Silver Manicure and Sewing Sets, in endless variety— 4 pieces, 21/- to
25/-; 5 pieces, 30/- to 45/-; 6 pieces, 32/6 to 50/-; larger sets from 60/- to £s.
The Goldsmiths & Silversmiths Alliance, Ltd.
90 KING ST., SYDNEY (Next door to Searl & Sons, Florists).
fp
Solid Silver
Chatelaine Scent
Bottle, 4/0.
Q
u
E
E
N
S
T
• •
QIEmmMOMISIS
Christmas Visitors to Brisbane-
I WILL PAY YCUR FARE
providing the cost does not exceed 2s. for
every £1 spent in my store. For instance
—supposing your fare costs 10s., if the
amount of your purchases comes to £5 —
The Cost of your Fare will be deducted from your Bill
on Production of the Return Half of your Ticket.
If the amount of your purchases is not sufficient for me to pay the full amount of your
fare, I’ll pay in proportion— at the rate of 2s. in every £1 you spend.
This is my Way of Bringing New Customers to my Store;
and, whilst under these conditions, I expect to make very little profit on our first trans-
action ; I reckon that my values and selection for anything in MEN’S WEAR or
JUVENILE CLOTHING> together with the civility and attention you will
receive from my assistants, will make regular customers of you.
“THATS WHERE I EXPECT TO COHE IN.”
You see there’s no sentiment about it, but a straight business statement.
Pleased to send Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms Anywhere to Anybody.
R
I
S
B
A
N
E
• •
ananoß
.71 > :7 -
3*“3i
'1 32.3
,- m":
r1l.§‘
f ~ Eli
j£l.alal.lj
[gWßlg'iStg
Flavelle, Roberts & Sankey, Ltd,,
BRISBANE,
are now manufacturing all classes of
THERMOMETERS & HYDROMETERS.
Any SPECIAL THERHOfIETER made to order.
Thermometers, Barometers, etc., repaired at
short notice.
r i!'"ii-r"fTnrTTm
‘ -0
m-_ ~
L
C
C I
t 4
C
‘h i
r‘. I
r f
L I
F I
15 i
M '
f 1
My
55' .~
.:,.
4- ‘7
/ 1|!"
J .| 5 ~
“‘44. -


What would Xmas be
6t
AM EO ” Cigarettes ?
It s unthinkable ! You might go a bit short on the Xmas dinner— you could possibly let up on the liquor—you might go as far as
neglecting the morning service, but if you want to enjoy a “Happy Christmas ’’—lay in a stock of “ Cameos.”
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S
CHRISTMAS CAKES
Celebrated Canterbury Cakes
TEA MEETING CAKE
FAMILY CAKE and PICNIC CAKE
CANNED FRUITS.
Ye Old English Plum Pudding
MINCE HEAT
Presentation Cakes (Ornamented)
In Beautiful Cardboard Boxes
Seeded Mildura Raisins
CHRISTMAS CHEER.
Sole Agents for
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Sydney and Melbourne.
FAY-EGAN WOODWORKING MACHINERY
“As-_.‘ ' t
‘ s“, 7.. '
. @N"
. ' ,"V
‘ If 3.; .
v f - _, v
’2 — “#4::—
"WI?
New
s of Vise.
Vi'
The “ Utopia ” Vise holds work of any shape, at
any angle. It has every advantage that could be gained from a dozen
Vises in as many different positions. It swings round and over at the
will of the operator and the work swings with it. There are two
forms of the “ UTOPIA one for Joiners and Pattern Makers
(dimensions 7 x opens 14in.) and the other for Fitters. Both
can be seen in operation at
60 Clarence St., Sydney, the Address of
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
Manufacturers and Importers of Mining Machinery,
Steam Engines and Boilers, Engineers Tools and Supplies, eto., etc.
=?SS
a
«
f ‘\
22am:
’gi‘__k"4r“°o P P
' *éﬁgﬁ‘gg
\ ..« .
T. M. GOODALL & CO., ™ hay st., Sydney
have in stock and to arrive- Portable, Traction, Vertical & Horizontal Boilers,
i ﬁ fr;
- ._J'
ﬂay-«31.,
Engineers and Mining Tools, Saw Mill Machinery, Pulleys, Belting, Etc.
Irriga'ion and Pumping Plants a Specialty, New and Secondhand Maoilnary always available.
‘ «:45,
/ ,EQJ‘
., g ..
.9 1% 'r'
, e1 23 ‘
111% 5 ~
f 4723“»: , ~.- -
‘ _ if“ 51 .1317?- ‘ 1
. "1’ :zsyﬂ a I)”
57’, :1 1" '1)?“ 3:: 5 U' "“1 l “‘
. - *“*‘:§-:1p~;§ irryf 1.1
ﬁx”??? :37 55—.‘3—5'43” , 1’
.1 T‘;1,"€L‘.‘[’I‘ /
K; 1:111: ”1:, “f": ‘51 W 1 f' 1'
J ’11 7 f ‘a .1] /-
?.b*’2:$
«T—
% 3%??2
“THE RAPLIN”
Hand Ice Machine
FOR DOMESTIC USE.
A Great Convenience in
the Country.
ICE PRODUCED IN 20 MINUTES
by simply turning a handle.
A Decanter of Water cooled in
3 Minutes.
No Risk. No Trouble.
KEEP COOL!
ICE MAKING
—AND—
COOLINO PLANTS
SUITABLE FOR
Cold Stores, Meat Companies,
Provision Merchants,
Steamship Companies.
g3T ESTIMATES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
' REID'S PATENT
Mechanical Punka
The Only Satisfactory Ventilator.
Cool Rooms. No Flies.
Can be operated by Electricity,
Steam, Gas, Oil, or any other
power.
For Restaurants, Factories,
Offices, Shoi>s, Hospitals,
Private Residences, Steam-
ship Saloons, die.
If. OUTHILXDGHB, Ltd., 71 Clarence St., SYDNEY.


Great
Mr. HOWARD FREEMAN,
Director of Institute.
SPECIALISTS WHO CURE.
MEN!
If afflicted with a disease which, if
not cured, means death, you
require the aid of a medical expert
who can cure you swiftly. Consult the Specialists of
The Freeman & Wallace Medical Institute
whose names are household words of thirty years’ standing
throughout Australia. They treat diseases others have
aggravated by tampering. A day’s delay may mean
Death. Do not wait. To-morrow you may be too ill to
write or act. You can be cured if curable.
Serious Diseases Afflicting the Male Sex
are Specialities of the Medical Staff of the Institute, of
whom Dr. R. Wallace, M.D., who is registered by
Australian, English, and American Boards, is Physician-
in-Chief. By their wonderful Home Treatment system,
men can be cured in their homes as if personally examined.
Blood Diseases are treated with singular success. If you
cannot call, write. It will cost nothing. The Specialists’
professional opinions are given FREE.
Dr. RICHARD WALLACE, M.D
Physician-in- Chief.
The FREEMAN & WALLACE MEDICAL INSTITUTE
Each Specialist associated with this great Institute is a Graduate from famous English and American
Colleges and scientific European centres. They are all Experts in Nerve, Stomach and Blood
Diseases, and have cured more men of their troubles than any similar association of Australian
medical men. They are under a guarantee bond of £lOOO for the faithful performance
of all medical contracts undertaken which is a proof of faith to every patient.
Blood Diseases
One of the most serious of diseases is that
of the blood arising from specific causes.
The blood is the life, and if polluted the
whole machinery of the body is assailed.
Victims to blood diseases are in a serious con-
dition. If not attended to at once they
will surely die. No one but skilled scientific
experts should attempt to treat them.
Insidious and subtle, undermining the
health, affecting every vital organ, they kill
quickly.
They are Desperate Diseases
requiring desperate remedies. Their origin
is not obscure to the skilled medical man
who has specially studied them. This is the
class of disease with which the medical staff
of the Institute are familiar. Ninety per
cent, of such diseases are permanently cured
by them. Any sufferer may be convinced of
proof of cure by writing to the Specialists
for Pamphlet of Testimonies of remarkable i
cases cured by them, mailed free. Sufferers
may find there cases similar to their own. j
X ..'
m
,
ZD.
c/Via
Si 1
THE MEDICAL INSTITUTE, SYDNEY.
Strengthless rten
Men who are deficient in Vital Power from
many causes, at thirty are prematurely old,
lacking the power, the energy to be a success
in life and to enjoy it domestically and
socially. Such men are only half-men, the
contempt and pity of their fellows. A man
should be strong, full of purpose, successful
in strength, no man’s inferior.
The Specialists Make Such Men.
A man will continue to degenerate if
lacking the essential power of the man. It
is the law of Nature, the survival of the
fittest. Thousands of Weak Men have been
cured at the Institute, have been made
strong and healthy, and are living advertise-
ments to the Specialists’ skill, who may be
consulted Free of Charge, by letter or per-
sonally, by any man who has doubts about
his condition. Such advice is invaluable
coming from men whose professional skill as
medical experts is unequalled in Australia.
It is the Most Scientific
Throughout Australasia.
Over £lOO,OOO has been
expended on this Institute.
By reference to any of the leading banks or commercial houses in Sydney, patients can convince
themselves as to the professional bona-fides of the above Medical Institute. It is scientific in ev3ry
detail. Its cost has been enormous. It is known far and wide by reason of the great cures effected by
its Specialists. Its Medical Staff comprise many of the greatest medical minds in the Commonwealth.
A patient suffering from Varicocele, Rupture, Loss of Vital Power, Weak or Shrunken Organs, General
1 Debility, Heart Disease, Cancer, Bciatica, Rheumatism, Insomnia, Kidney Disorder, Dropsy, or Diabetes,
| Spinal Affections, Diseases of the Stomach, Nerves or Blood, are ail treated by Specialists who have
studied the class of disease thoroughly. Patients may depend upon it the treatment they require is the
I treatment they will receive, and will be such as no other medical institution in Australia can afford them.
The Specialists of this Great
Medical Institute have
practised in Australia over a
Quarter of a Century.
Free—A Book Worth £lOO.
It tells every Weak Man how to get strong. It explains the
reason for the Early Decay of Manhood’s Strength and how Perfect
Vigor is restored. It tells how we have cured thousands of weak
men in Australasia during the past five years. It is a beautifully
illustrated, 570-page book, and is full of those
Candid, Plain-Spoken Truths
which have always been the medium of communication between our
patrons and ourselves during the past twenty years. It tells about
the cause and cure of ‘‘ weakness ” in men as men like to read it—plain
and honest, straight from the shoulder. There are other troubles
from which men suffer, such as Rheumatism, Lame Back, Varicocele,
Weak Kidneys, Sciatica, etc. It tells about these also and how
we cure them. To any man who suffers from an early breaking
down of the vital powers it is worth £lOO. “ CLINICAL
EXPERIENCES,” 570 pages,
150 Graphic Medical Plates,
31 chapters, is the Book for Sick Men. It is commended by hundreds
of Australian newspapers. It Costs You Nothing 1 , except the
postage fee of One Shilling in Stamps.
Subjects Treated comprise Insomnia, Epilepsy, Fevers,
Sunstroke, Burns and Scalds, Gunshot Wounds, Snakebite]
Drowning and Restoration, Bathing and Exercise, Treatment of
Invalids, Anatomy, Consumption, Rupture, Electricity and Cure
of Nerve Diseases, Diet, etc. A list of 50 valuable prescriptions
are also included, making the book especially valuable to country
residents, where medical men are few. Applicants should send in
at once for copies, as the edition of this work is fast being ordered.
wm
■2? %
Wj»
.#<4l
fmm
W;
mi
Free for One Shilling in Stamps.
When under treatment all patients are uuder the special care of DU. R. WALLADi, M.D., L.R.C.P., E., L.F.P S , E., L.M., a distinguished
Medical Expert who is registered by the Msdical Boards of Australia, England and America. He holds Nine Diplomas and Certificates
of Qualification and Registration, which may be seen at the consulting rooms. His professional advices are given free to all inquirers.
Great Journals Praise this Book.
“ STAR,” Sydney : “ A book for the people.”
“EVENING NEWS," Sydney: “A revised and enlarged edition.”
“TOWN AND COUNTRY JOURNAL,” Sydney : “The Specialists
find it necessary to supplement new literary staffs.”
“PUNCH,” Melbourne : “ Anyone interested in incurable diseases
should write to the Specialists.”
“SUN,” Kalgoorlie: ‘“CLINICAL EXPERIENCES’ contains much
valuable information written in a popular manner ”
“OBSERVER,” Adelaide : “There has never been published of its
kind in Australia a more worthy addition to the literature of the colony.”
“ MERCU RY,” Hobart: “It is an elegantlv-bound volume. Over
20,000 . . . copies are issued yearly.”
“WORKER,” Brisbane: “Almost every disease which flesh is heir
to has been treated within the pages of this work.”
“NEW ZEALAND MAIL”: “ In this book the authors give
us much that is instructive from a physical health view-point.”
“SUNDAY TIMES,” Perth, in “Bits about'Books,” on
March 29, 1903, says: ‘“CLINICAL EXPERIENCES’ on
General Diseases is splendidly compiled. It would be
hard to overrate its value, nor do we ever remember
to have seen a more creditable production or one that
merits a more appreciative press notice.”
“ OBSERVER,” Auckland: “ A highly inter-
esting volume. It deals with nerve com-
plaints and how to cure them.”
“ MIN ER,” Kalgoorlie : “The postal
facilities of the Institute are unique."
“SUN,” Kalgoorlie : “Striking
cures of many so-called ‘INCUR-
ABLE ’ diseases are effected daily.”
These are nut a few from
hundreds of others, all of
which are voluntary re-
views of extreme
literary value and
merit.
JZf
4*
/
* *
v * *
\.
J s
//^
& *


Weak and Nervous
Loss of Appetite. Indigestion. Impure Blood. Severe Headaches.
An Easy and Prompt Cure.
V - .• .-.'V .•
<: t».
<rx>
‘f=Ss.
5tW
4,
*5
4
1 /
Mrs. Marian Pascoe, of Christ-
church, New Zealand, sends a photo-
graph of herself and little boy and
says:
“I had indigestion very badly.
My food rested heavy on my stom-
ach. I lost my appetite and rapidly
grew weak. My blood became im-
pure and I had almost constant
headache. I was so nervous I hardly
knew what to do. A friend sug-
gested that I try Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla, which I did, and only a few
bottles made me strong and hearty
again. My little boy began to com-
plain, said he was all tired out,
could not play, nor do anything.
He lost his appetite, and grew weak
and languid. I tried the Sarsapa-
rilla on him also, and he was soon
perfectly well.”
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
When you lose your appetite, when your food distresses you, and when
your nerves are weak, you may know that severe disease is not far away.
Taken in time, the cure is easy and prompt. You must strengthen your
digestive organs, purify your blood, and put your whole nervous system into
better condition. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla will do this for you every time. And
it will give to languid and thin children the energy and vitality natural tp them.
Experiments are dangerous. Avoid imitation Sarsaparillas. Insist always
upon getting Ayer’s, the oldest, strongest, best Sarsaparilla.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Makes the Blood Rich and the Nerves Strong
Constipation, biliousness, sick-headache, — all cured by Ayer’s Piiis.
The Spirit of the Bush.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A spirit presides in the vast, wild bush which
only the poet sees
When the sun goes down with his rich gold locks
dishevelled among the trees ;
With wattle leayes wreathing her maiden brow,
and twined round her Austral lyre,
On a mountain peak she sits serene in a veil of
ruby fire ;
And he feels his wistful eyes grow dim, and his
pale cheeks warmly flush,
For he knows by that breeze-sweet lyre his Muse
—the Spirit of the Bush.
, A spirit haunts the lone bush tracks which only
; the swagman sees
When he sinks at last worn out with age and
racked with a vague disease ;
As the wan moonlight grows weird and strange he
watches with bated breath
A shadowless shape approaching him which he
knows by his dreams is Death,
And he struggles to rise with a half-choked curse
that grates on the dreadful hush,
j And spurns with his fist the outstretched hand of
■■the Spirit of the Bush.
N.s.w,
ARTHUB A. D. BATLDON .
“W.R.C.”: At Botany (Sydney), once, I
was strolling round the grounds, waiting for a
pigeon-match to start, when I noticed a dingo
chained to a kennel. He had laid a large meat-
bone out in front of his little house, but well
within scope of his chain, and was lying well back
in his kennel, with an expression of “ Welcome —
this bone is free to all.” Presently along comes a
Wyandotte cock, and begins to peck at the bone—
when—a spring, a shake, a crunch, and back to
his retreat goes Mr. Dingo with the cock. No
bustle ;no unnecessary noise. He repeated this
performance twice, and, when I left, his provision
for the future seemed well assured
Boggs, the most popular bullock-driver in
central N.S.W., had a row with Murphy, the
local auctioneer. So Boggs christened his worst
bullock “ Murphy,” and the next time he drove
through the small township he pulled up opposite
the auctioneer’s place to remonstrate with the
anima ]that was formerly known as Strawberry.
“Ye miserable son of a broken-backed bull,
Murphy, I’ll make ye stand ! Ye knock-kneed
flaming useless cow, Murphy!” (Here he
whacked the erring bullock severely. By this
time 22 people had gathered.) “Ye thick-
skinned, miserable, crawlin’ buffalo, Murphy!
—ye lazy, dashed, loafin’, sneakin’ hypocrite,
Murphy, pretendin’ to work, an’ livin’ on the
graft of the other animals!” (Forty people were
now collected. The auctioneer was rushing
up the street apoplectically in search of the soli-
tary policeman.) Boggs hit the bullock again, and
lifted his voice a shade higher. “Ye lazy thief,
an’ robber, an’ importer, Murphy ; ye lyin’, ugly
carcase, with yer snub nose, an’ yer unhealthy
bald head, an’ yer thin legs, an’ yer voice that’s
like a crow; an’ the uselessness of ye, Murphy,
an’ the bastely coward that ye are.” (Everybody
had collected by -now. The applause was tre-
mendous. Murphy having failed to find the
policeman at one end of the town, fled
heatedly past looking for him at the other end.
The policeman had concealed himself in Ryan’s
public-house, so that he might not be found.)
Boggs braced himself for a fresli effort, and
whacked Murphy again. “ It’s a disgrace to the
cquntry ye are, Murphy, with yer ugliness,
an' yer red nose, an’ yer habit o’ eatin’ dirt, an’
the noise ye make that sounds as if ye was a dirty
auctioneer instead of a bull that was well brought
up.” (Here a small woman ended the proceedings
quite suddenly. Mrs. Murphy walked sternly out
of the shop with a jug in her hand and threw
hot water over Boggs before he knew that any-
thing was going to happen.)
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to dUre any case ot
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, .and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28, Shoe-
lane, London, England.*
Vv*\Vi-'<
'<tS.i<% * %
£i*r> v -~~vN
T§!
(
£g
W\\
||E^ERYTHIN|C
//
*:4’7'*..
l I
#!s!
fd.t;Cdta/oj}i/e
rion this paper
;£B4Collins St
MELBOURNE
One Word about
Holiday Time. . :
Some of us will suffer from temporary indisposition,
chills, over fatigue, a run-down feeling, and many minor
disturbance of health functions.
Remember that a holiday is often spoiled
through the system being deranged, so
never travel without a box of . . .
REECHAM’S
PILLS.
They prevent Nausea, Sea-sickness, and act as an. alterative
often necessary through change of air and diet.
Thus prepared, one can surely feel that we can enjoy our
holidays to the full.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
A Boon in the Bedroom at home. ♦.
A Boon in the Baggage when away.
BEECHAM’S PILLS maintain their reputation for keeping
people in good health and good condition.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price Is lid (56 Pills) & 2s 9d (168 Pills).
Dr.li.L.Smith,
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
COOLING,
O’S
‘FRUIT
HEALTH GIVING,
REFRESHING,
AND INVIGORATING.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS, Ac., EVERYWHERE.
SALT.’
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
CLOTH, 300 PAGES.
BY SIXTY BULLETIN WRITERS. PRICE, 4s. 6d.
From all Booksellers, or the Publishers,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 2IT George-st., Sydney, Australia.
All
M.D., C.M., L.R.C.P.E., L.R.C.S.E.,
L.P.P.S.G., L.M., etc.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great
Britain, Victoria, New South Wales,
« etc.,
The Eminent Specialist, whose unparalleled success in the Treatment of Blood and Nerve
Diseases has earned for him a reputation unequalled by any other Specialist in Australia, may be consulted
daily, personally or by letter, at “ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 Elizabeth-st., Sydney. Old and Obsolete
Methods discarded. DR. MARTIN’S latest treatment has proved absolutely effective in all cases of Blood
Disease, Nerve Affections, Paralysis,. Loss of Energy, Lung, Heart, Skin, and all
Chronic Diseases of Men and Women. His Consulting Rooms are replete with all the
latest and most scientific improvements in Electric Appliances, etc. Country Patients
treated by Correspondence at their own homes. Advice and Medicine, One
'Pound All Sufferers should write for a copy of Dr. Martin’s Latest Medical Work,
‘•THE ‘ KNQX-MERCER’ TREATMENT IN DISEASE.” This work should find a place in every
household, as it contains a full and explicit account of the Most Wonderful Treatment of the Present
Atre. It has been the means of Curing Thousands who followed out the instructions contained
therein. This Marvellous Treatment Cleanses and Rejuvenates the Whole System, and is the Cheapest
Treatment in Existence, as nothing but the Book is required.
Cheap Edition, Is. ; by post, Is. Gd.
‘‘Press Extracts” posted free throughout Australia.
CONSULTING HOURS: 10 to 2 and 7 to 9 Daily.
“ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY


IIIC UIVIICI M3 icnu j Ul LUC vviuiuvunviw
3REWERS
AND
30TTLERS
OF
ILE *
STOUT
ENGLISH
ALE
SELECT
STOCK
ALE
AND
LAGER.
TELEPHONE :
to. 206 Central
to. 162 Paddington
/- ~ '
tm
\ \ . J|,
CUT ■ V \ ■
SO> '; * *
45 a </>'
Vx/
\
r-^
(O^Z 7
:
i^rn
¥ffl* %%, ,
Sftpp * |£M| : #*< fe*\ ji&Sg! |g| |
iii
»* *» £ r«KrvYth-“i
&
1 d MM
nm
rf.;* Mi
PiSIJ )
:
■■
0
v • ■•••;■■
[Lruj
: mu-us |i*‘-:;«' . !• S'S* -2kk s
.miiiiii-ij .’- 1 og? s|
<a
ms s
rfk-H
m
b£l;
■
as.
9P ’• >
m
Wm *
.
m
€X~
V
JL*
i-iiii.
.
E.RESC
AGENT FOR
Watsoij’s
WbiSk
Sazcrac
Braod
Scboap
Sols’ (JiijS
Bitters $
LiqOeOr
Heory 60(1
Cbarijpagt
All Brands of
